FADE IN:

An iguana...

Crawling off its nest, leaving its eggs exposed.

Grainy, Kodak color, nineteen sixties documentary

footage of a beautiful Polynesian island. We SEE quick

shots of Kimono Dragons, Gila Monsters and Chameleons

all in their natural tropical environment.

Super:

Incongruously over this jungle environment we HEAR a

static ridden radio filtered VOICE, slowly counting down

in French. It is almost as through the reptiles of the

island are reacting to the countdown as they anxiously

move about.

Suddenly with a brilliant FLASH OF WHITE LIGHT, a

nuclear EXPLOSION mushrooms into the sky.

We SEE a SERIES of REAL shots of footage of some of the

over one hundred and sixty official nuclear tests the

French government held in this tropical region.

Explosion after explosion devastates the locale. One

building after the next, accelerating in momentum,

culminating in one final EXPLOSION.

The clould-filled sky begins to drizzle. The ash-like

fallout drifts downward onto what's left of the islands

below.

We FOLLOW this ash as it settles next to a dead reptile,

unrecognizable now, and down onto what's left of the

lizard's eggs.

Suddenly the image clears from the grainy footage to

clean, modern high resolution. We ZOOM IN on one of the

eggs as it slowly gets buried in the falling ash. WE

continue to push in, getting closer...closer...

Smashing through the choppy waters, barely by the storm

we SEE the CORI AKIDO, a Japanese oil supertanker.

Super:

We TRACK across the complicated computerized

navigational console that is actually steering the

immense ship. In the b.g. we HEAR a Japanese t.v.

program playing.

At the end of the console is the ship's SKIPPER, an

overweight Japanese seaman sleepily watches a snowy

satellite broadcast of a Sumo wrestling match.

Suddenly the SONAR blares out a warning ALARM. Startled,

the Skipper awakes and stumbles out of his chair over to

the console.

The SONAR displays an enormous MASS heading quickly

toward the ship. The Skipper's eyes go wide. He hits a

KLAXON alarm, awaking the entire ship. He presses the

radio/intercom.

Alarms BLARING. The crew rushes out of their quarters

and into the hall. Quickly they race for the upper

decks.

The ship's elderly COOK pokes his head out of the

kitchen and yells at some of the crew as they pass by.

Before anyone can answer, the ship is ROCKED by an

enormous THUD as something hits the side of the immense

ship. The crew TUMBLES as the ship SWAYS VIOLENTLY.

The old Cook is thrown to the floor. He looks up

nervously.

The CAPTAIN enters quickly, joining the Skipper at the

console.

Again, the ship is HIT. An enormous CRASHING SOUND is

HEARD as the ship ROCKS to one side, tossing the Captain

and Skipper to the floor.

Suddenly we HEAR the tell-tale, famous SCREAMING WAIL of

our creature from somewhere outside. Terror shines in

the Captain's eyes at the sound.

The crew, getting back on their feet, reacts to the

horrible WAILING SOUND.

Suddenly the ship is HIT AGAIN. This time something

enormous RIPS THROUGH THE HULL, crushing one of the crew

members as it TEARS THROUGH THE WALLS.

Water RUSHES THROUGH the large gaping hole, quickly

filling the hallway. The Cook and what's left of the

crew scurry for the stairs, as the water level chases

them.

The ship's computers are WHIRLING with warning lights

and alarms. As the Skipper tries to adjust the controls

in vain, the Captain grabs the ship's p.a. system.

But before he can say anything more, something WHIPS

across the bridge's enormous windshield, SHATTERING THE

GLASS. Was it a tail? No way, far too big.

The doors BURST open as the crew and the Cook rush out

onto the deck. Again, the ship is HIT, ROCKING it

violently.

A TARP

is ripped away, revealing a life boat. Two more life

boats are revealed behind it as the crew desperately

tries to hoist them up and over the side.

ANGLE - WATER BESIDE THE TANKER

Something ENORMOUS jolts out of the water towards the

ship. Through the rainstorm it is hard to make out what

it is, but it SLAMS into the side of the ship, RIPPING

INTO IT, pulling down the starboard side as it does.

Could that have been a CLAW?

THE CREW

Are thrown backwards. The lifeboats swing WILDLY,

several of them SMASHING INTO BITS as they slam against

the ship.

THE CLAW

Or whatever it is, RIPS INTO THE SIDE AGAIN. This time

the entire ship begins to FLIP OVER.

A LIFEBOAT

Bounces off the deck and slides off the side. Following

it is the Cook.

Desperately, the Cook grabs onto the ship's side railing

to keep from falling off. He looks back and SEES

something so horrible that he SCREAMS IN TERROR and lets

go of the railing.

The old Cook slides over the side as the enormous tanker

FLIPS OVER.

WINDSHIELD WIPERS

Clearing at their highest speed, we see through the rain

doused windshield, DR. NIKO "NICK" TATOPOULOS. Music

blares from the tiny headphones of his Walkman.

The utility van races through this small Russian town

right past a roadblock marked with the international

signs for "no trespass" and "nuclear radiation."

As the van disappears down the road, we CRANE UP

revealing a city sign reading: CHERNOBYL, RUSSIA.

With the infamously crippled nuclear power plant in the

distance, the utility van slides to a muddy stop by this

field of dirt.

Nick hops out quickly and rushes to the back of the van.

He opens the back of the van and grabs several metallic

cases.

Walking a few yards away from the van, he dumps the

cases on the ground, opening them to REVEAL an

assortment of sophisticated scientific equipment.

Taped to the inside are several photos of a girl we'll

meet later. Some of the photos are of her looking young

and beautiful. Others are of the two of them happily

together.

With a switch he turns on the equipment which comes to

life. Inside one of the cases are several cables

attached to long SPIKES. He grabs them and dashes away.

Nick rushes over to a small patch of land and begins to

SHOVE the spikes into the muddy earth.

Once firmly in the ground, he rushes back over to the

van and pops the hood.

CLOSE - VAN'S ENGINE

We SEE the steaming engine and a large electric car

BATTERY.

He attaches the cables to the battery and they SPARK!

Nick YELPS and jumps back. Shaking off the shock, he

rushes back over to the mud pit, dropping down to his

knees.

Suddenly, raising from the mud we see DOZENS OF

EARTHWORMS. Excitedly Tatopoulos grabs a big empty glass

jar and begins filling the jar with worms, happily in

his element.

Unable to hear over his Walkman, he is oblivious as an

enormous RUSSIAN MILITARY HELICOPTER lands right behind

him.

From the intense wind kicked up by the helicopter,

Tatopoulos finally turns in time to see several RUSSIAN

OFFICERS coming toward him. Nick scrambles to his feet.

He goes through his pockets looking for his permits.

Tatopoulos looks up as the Russian soldiers move past

him and over towards his cases of equipment. A man in a

long raincoat comes forward.

The Russian soldiers close up his equipment and take it

off to the Helicopter.

Coastal town of Papeete, Tahiti. With the ocean in the

distance, through the heat waves we SEE a row of

official looking black sedans coming toward us.

The doors to the sedans open as a group of very official

looking Government types. Stopping to light his

cigarette is PHILLIP RAYMOND, 40's, intense, dangerous

and worst of all...French.

Raymond leads the official looking group down the hall.

A BRIEFING OFFICER rushes over. (The following dialog is

entirely in French with subtitles)

The group arrives at a door at the end of the hall. The

Briefing Officer opens the door.

RAYMOND'S P.O.V. - THROUGH OPEN DOOR

In the corner of the large room we see the old Cook from

the tanker curled up in the fetal position. The doctors

and a few nurses are attending to him.

Two of the Officials move in and escort the Doctors and

Nurses out of the room. Raymond nods to two other

Officials who begin to unpack some recording equipment,

including a video camera.

Raymond enters and moves close to the old Cook, kneeling

down in front of him, inspecting his distant glare. The

old Cook seems to be in a world of his own, rocking back

and forth. Raymond nods to another Official who comes

forward.

The Second Official ask him in Japanese, but the old

Cook does not respond. He asks again but the old Cook

seems to be in a world of his own.

Raymond takes out his lighter and ignites it on high.

The old Cook's eyes slowly come back to life, transfixed

by the fire. Slowly he brings the flame close to the old

Cook's face.

Drawn out of himself by the flame...

Raymond shoots a look at the Second Official for an

explanation.

A small sea plane flies over this jungle region of

Panama, darting up the Gulf into the lush greenery of

the countryside.

Super:

Slowly the plane begins to descend, landing by a small

village.

Several soldiers unload Nick's cargo as he steps out of

the plane onto the dock. As he walks towards shore he

SEES...

NICK'S P.O.V. - POLICE BARRICADE

Dozens of citizens as well as the press are gathered at

a police barricade; their access to the village denied.

Panamanian Police and U.S. military working together to

keep people out.

Marching up the shore to greet Nick is MAJOR TONY HICKS,

30's, efficient, who is spearheading this operation.

The Major leads Nick up the beach away from the crowds.

ANGLE - DESTROYED VILLAGE HUT

Several soldiers and researchers are investigating the

site when Nick and the Major walk past.

Major Hicks motions to some guards who clear a blockade

away from a jungle pathway. Major Hicks takes the

pathway.

Major Hicks stops, turns to Nick.

With that Major Hicks walks away.

Nick looks down, sees nothing.

We CRANE UP above him, pulling back farther and farther,

until we SEE he's standing inside of a 15 YARD LONG

GIGANTIC FOOTPRINT in the sand.

Two scientists have spread out a tape measure to

document its length as two others inspect it with Geiger

counters. Nick sees them and realizes he's standing in a

remarkable discovery. He looks up ahead and SEES...

OVERHEAD TITLT SHOT - Foot steps...-

Five gigantic footsteps in front of him. Other

researchers examining the prints with all kinds of

equipment. Geiger counters, CLICK, CLICKING away. Nick

is stunned.

Nick rushes to catch up with Major Hicks who walks

towards a command tent in the distance.

The Major gestures to the many villagers who are being

attended to. Some are injured, others are being examined

for radiation. The village has been decimated.

A jeep pulls up and PETERS, a young researcher, comes

rushing over with a video tape in his hands. As he passes

Major Hicks...

Peters takes off for the command' tent. Nick and the

Major follow.

COMMAND TENT - CONTINUOUS - DAY

Part military, part scientific command post. Lots of

activity. Peters waves the tape as he rushes over to a

television. Major Hicks and Nick follow.

Excitedly, ELSIE CHAPMAN, heavy set, early 30's,

paleontologist and head of the research team, leads

several of her colleagues over to the t.v.

She's clearly attracted to him. This doesn't escape

Nick, who's not too comfortable with her flirtatious

glare. She turns to a scientist standing next to her,

DR. CLIVE CRAVEN.

The t.v. turns on and we SEE the old Cook, rocking on

his bed, repeating over and over the same word...

This is all too overwhelming for him. He turns from the

t.v. and looks out into the jungle.

Slowly he walks away, staring at something in the

distance with total awe. Elsie walks up next to him.

We REVERSE ANGLE and SEE what they are staring at.

A gigantic path cut through the jungle.

Something of immense size has trampled and cut a deep

and wide path right through the jungle forest that goes

on for miles on end. Over the stunned face of Nick we

HEAR...

T.V. MONITOR - JUNGLE FOOTAGE

The same beach scene we saw when Nick arrived. Over

it...

As we WIDEN we see this is one of several wall mounted

monitors all showing channel WNEW. Through the glass

doorway nearby we see CHARLES CAIMAN, 40's, handsome,

entering the office.

ANGLE - SECRETARY DESK

Standing in front of the desk is AUDREY TIMMONDS, early

thirties, attractive, small town girl who still hasn't

toughened in the big city and talking with her

co-worker, LUCY, sitting.

Just then Caiman passes behind them.

Audrey makes the decision and bolts after Caiman. Lucy

rolls her eyes.

ANGLE - CAIMAN

As he walks towards his office Audrey races up to him.

Seeing her, he walks faster hoping to avoid her. He

can't.

They arrive at his office. An enormous standee of

himself with the ACTION NEWS CREW is there.

He stops at his door. Audrey is startled.

Caiman shuts the door on her. She turns and is face to

face with the standee of Caiman. She takes out her

chewing gum and plasters it on his nose.

Over the bumpy Jamaican highway we FOLLOW from above

several military jeeps racing in convoy.

Super:

Elsie, Nick and Clive are cramped together along with

Nick's equipment in the back of the jeep. Nick looks

very uncomfortable. Elsie looks at Nick...lasciviously.

Nick seems to get lost in thought.

The sound of a HELICOPTER ZOOMS overhead.

AERIAL SHOT - HELICOPTER - SAME - DAY

A helicopter ZOOMS past our convoy. As we FOLLOW the

helicopter we REVEAL...

JAMAICAN BEACH WITH A BEACHED CARGO SHIP - DAY

Taking up nearly the entire beach, an enormous cargo

ship lays on its side in the sand. Two gigantic holes,

ripped into its hull.

MILITARY JEEPS

Nick hops out and joins Major Hicks et al as they push

past the gathered crowd of onlookers. The group gives a

collective gasp as they see the ship for the first

time.

Three men (who we'll recognize from the Tahiti hospital)

take measurements of the holes in the ship.

Everyone in the group turns to find Mr. Phillip

Raymond.

Raymond hands him, as well as anyone who wants one, his

business card.

The Major walks away. Raymond studies him as he does.

ANGLE - SHIP

Nick can't take his eyes off the enormous holes in the

hull. He steps closer and turns to Peters, who's taking

radiation counts of the ship.

Peter hands him his Geiger counter and walks into the

cracked hull of the ship.

Inside is eerily dark and creepy. The guts of the ship

are tangled inside. Holding a Geiger counter, he gets

readings from all over the area. One particular spot,

above him, seems slightly stronger.

Nick SEES something there. He opens his knapsack and

puts on some rubber gloves, removing a glass jar (like

the ones from Chernobyl)

Carefully he climbs the debris until he reaches a sharp

shard of metal. Clinging to it he finds a MEATY CHUNK OF

REPTILE FLESH.

He tries remove it but he only gets half. He places it

into his jar. Just as he reaches for the other half,

SOMETHING GIVES WAY.

With a JOLT, the section above him collapses. A rush of

water falls and a HUMAN BODY swings down, just in front

of him.

Nick tumbles backwards, his heart pounding. The body

swings lifelessly as it hangs from above.

The others rush to his side, checking to see if he's all

right.

Nick looks around frantically when the glass sample jar

is suddenly handed to him.

Raymond studies Nick as he joins the rest outside.

UNDERWATER - NETS - MOVING P.O.V.

We are moving very quickly underwater. Ahead of us are

some large FISHING NETS with a catch of fish carried in

the bunt. Quickly we are heading for a collision.

A great day for fishing. Slicing through the water we

SEE three New England Fishing TRAWLERS, the HARPO, the

CHICO, and the GROUCHO.

ARTHUR is at the wheel. Suddenly the engines WHINE as

the ship begins to slow down. Surprised, Arthur checks

his throttle.

LEONARD and his 1st MATE are puzzled by the engine WHINE

of their own ship.

The captain, JULES, hasn't noticed a thing as he lays on

his deck tanning himself, a boom-abox blaring next to

him. Suddenly THUD. The ship JOLTS for a second. Jules

slides and BANGS his head into the boom-box. He yelps.

Jules gets up to move aft when THUD, again the ship

ROCKS.

ALL THREE BOATS SLOW TO A CRAWL

Arthur tries to GUN his engine but it only WHINES. Soon

all three boats STOP DEAD. Nothing but quiet for a long

beat.

Then with another JOLT all three boats begin to move

The three boats begin to PICK UP SPEED, moving BACKWARDS

in the water. Water SPLASHES up into the boats, winches

begin to CRACK under the building pressure.

The boats begin to move incredibly FAST backwards.

Things on the boat begin to BREAK and CRASH DOWN onto

the decks of the ships.

The same cry is heard on all three boats. Leonard grabs

an AXE and starts HACKING AWAY at the tow lines.

Jules and his deck hands do the same. WIRE SHEERS are

brought out for the larger CABLES connected to the nets.

Desperately they try and free themselves as their boats

are dragged helplessly backwards.

A CABLE SNAPS!

Jules falls backward as the cables and ropes are either

cut or snapped from the pressure. Their boat stops.

ANOTHER CABLE SNAPS!

Leonard and his crew TUMBLE to the deck as their boat is

freed.

THE HARPO

Is not so fortunate. The lone boat dragged backwards,

faster now without the weight of the other boats. Then

suddenly the aft of the boat begins to get PULLED DOWN,

dipping into the water.

With an unstoppable force the Harpo gets PULLED UNDER

WATER. Deck hands LEAP off the boat as the top cabin is

CRUSHED as the entire ship slowly

For a moment all is quiet. No one can believe what just

happened. Hearts pounding, catching their breath.

Then with a WHOOSH of air pressure, the Harpo BURSTS out

of the water. With a gigantic SPLASH, the boat FLOPS on

its side and capsizes. The waters calm, but the nerves

of Jules and Leonard don't.

A storm is brewing ahead as this large Military

Transport plane glides into view then BANKS away.

PETRI DISH

A small piece of Nick's SAMPLE is cut away and placed on

a glass microscope slide.

Nick sits on the floor surrounded by his sloppily

unpacked equipment as he places the slide under his

microscope, examining his specimen.

Quickly stepping over him a young SOLDIER rushes over to

Major Hicks, seated with the rest of the team on the

plane's opposing benches. The Solider interrupts their

discussion.

The team exchanges worried glances. Hicks moves over to

a map where the other incidents have been marked. He

traces his finger up the 67th longitude until he hits

the 47th parallel. Just off the East Coast.

Everyone turns to discover Nick has walked over holding

his loosely scribbled notes in his hand.

OCEAN WATER

Racing close to the ocean waters below, something DARK

and ENORMOUS moves swiftly below the surface. We TILT UP

from the raging tides up to REVEAL...

A storm has arrived as rain moistens the city ahead.

Dripping wet, Audrey enters from the rain, removing her

raincoat. She walks to a booth where Lucy and ANIMAL, a

slovenly, Italian video cameraman is his mid-thirties,

are taking their lunch break. Animal has two plates of

food he cobbles down.

Everything turns to see what Audrey is looking at.

Audrey gets up and rushes over to a television above the

counter.

The waitress does. On the t.v. plays the same news story

we saw from before from Panama. This time we SEE Nick

and Major Hicks walking on the beach.

Even in the rain doesn't keep people away. Buyers haggle

with sellers. A large MARKET, truck loads of fish. No

one seems to notice the river across from them...

MOUTH OF THE EAST RIVER

Enormous turbulence in the water. Slowly something

begins to LIFT, sheets of water fall. Bursting out, the

backside TALONS of the enormous reptile pierce through.

The TAIL slices through the turbulence.

Two ships anchored at dock begin to LIFT UPWARDS as the

beast below them begins to rise.

ANGLE FISH MARKET

A groaning WAIL ROARS, echoing. The people of the fish

market turn just in time to see...

THE ANCHORED SHIPS

Lifting impossibly into the air above the pier. Suddenly

a TIDAL WAVE of water comes CRASHING down, flooding the

fish market.

DAY

Through the swinging windshield wipers of the bus we see

the JFK highway in front of us. Suddenly we see...

AN ENORMOUS FOOT

Comes crashing down atop JFK highway, crushing it. The

TRANSIT BUS tumbles off the demolished highway.

The man in the MARKET TRUCK is TOSSED and ENORMOUS TEETH

puncture the top and bottom of his truck as it's LIFTED

IN THE AIR. The man LEAPS from the open back of the

truck.

He lands, HARD, down in front of one of the fish market

stores as hundreds of fish RAIN DOWN from above. With a

loud CRASH, the demolished truck SLAMS to the ground

nearby.

With a large RE-ELECT MAYOR FAUSTINO poster behind him,

the MAYOR is at the podium. Before him is a sea of

umbrellas.

Some in the crowd laugh as others applaud. Lost in the

sounds of the crowd we HEAR a soft THUMPING in the

distance.

ANGLE - COP IN BACK OF CROWD

leaning to the cop next to him.

This time the THUMPING is HEARD, growing much louder.

Before he can continue the crowd begins to murmur with

fear as the THUMPING grows LOUDER and CLOSER. Suddenly

with a large CRASHING SOUND a building nearby begins to

CRUMBLE.

People SCRAMBLE to get out of the way as DEBRIS from the

falling BUILDING litters the area. The Mayor is pulled

inside by his security men.

Bursting out of the crumbling corner of the building we

SEE the enormous LEG of the reptile as it KICKS debris

out of its way.

SIDE ANGLE - WALL STREET - FAST TRAVELING SHOT

Several cars are SQUASHED quickly as the enormous FEET

of the beast STOMPS through the street. Cars FLATTEN and

SCATTER, flipping toward us, from the weight of the

beast. We try to keep up with it, but it's too fast.

After it passes, the Mayor sticks his head out of the

doorway to see the demolished street scene.

Caiman's on the phone as his SECRETARY enters with some

files. Rain and thunder continue outside.

Just then his Secretary notices a desk lamp, the shade

SHAKING and the light FLICKERING. She hears the THUMPING

approaching. She turns and SEES...

GIGANTIC TEETH

The enormous head of GODZILLA growls as it passes by

Caiman's office window.

Caiman turns but there's nothing there. He's confused,

she's dazed.

Just then the TAIL WHIRLS past with a THUNDERS whip.

Animal, Lucy and Audrey are at the cashier paying.

In the distance we can HEAR the THUMPING approaching.

Suddenly the THUMPING gets LOUDER very quickly. Everyone

in the diner reacts.

The next THUMP RATTLES the entire diner. Things begin to

fall. Through the window we see people RUNNING in

PANIC.

Before anyone can speak the entire building is SHAKING.

Through the front window we SEE...

GODZILLA'S FOOT

Smashing down directly outside the window. Cars are

SMASHED. One car SAILS directly INTO THE WINDOW,

shattering it.

Animal uses his size to COVER the girls from the falling

debris. As the danger passes, Animal charges for the

door.

Animal comes rushing out. Water sprays from displaced

fire hydrants, debris still falls, cars burn. Animal

goes over to his NEWS VAN that has been partially

crushed.

He pries open the rear door and takes out his video

camera and takes off running. Audrey and Lucy arrive too

late to stop him.

ANIMAL RUNNING

Turning the corner Animal runs full speed through the

debris, trying to jam a video cassette into his camera.

It won't fit. He SEES up ahead...

P.O.V. THE TAIL

Just as it disappears around the corner a few blocks

ahead. Thinking quickly, Animal bolts down a small

alleyway.

His camera damaged, Animal struggles to get the tape

inside as he exits the other side of the alley. He darts

out into the street to get his shot.

The THUMPING is OVERPOWERINGLY LOUD. He looks up to see,

CARS FLIPPING, PEOPLE SCATTERING.

Then, for the first time, we can clearly see the entire

massive creature that is...

GODZILLA

as he comes barreling towards us. The titanic lizard is

ferocious and agile. Swiftly he moves closer.

Animal's hands fumble with the tape. He JAMS it in,

sweating. He fingers the POWER BUTTON, the red light

goes on. Quickly he shoulders the camera.

P.O.V. THROUGH CAMERA - GODZILLA

Nearly on top of him, Godzilla's own image is suddenly

covered by his own immense foot as it's lifted and about

to come down directly on us.

Before he can do anything about it...

GODZILLA'S FOOT

Towering above him. He has no time to flinch as the

gargantuan foot SMASHES DOWN.

In terrifying amazement, Animal remains standing IN

BETWEEN THE BEAST'S TOES. Abruptly the foot LIFTS

again. Animal is unscathed and frozen with fear.

ANGLE - ANIMAL

Close on Animal as the endless TAIL of the creature

DRAGS just past him. It seems to go on forever. Finally

it disappears.

WIDE ANGLE - TABLEAU OF A DEMOLISHED STREET

Deserted and demolished. Cars burn, debris falls.

Animal, the lone figure, just stands there, his chest

heaving, hyper ventilating.

A military CONVOY with Police escort RACES past us.

ABOVE - HELICOPTER SHOT - CONVOY

Sirens BLARING, the convoy and escort speed onward.

Just as they arrive at a military roadblock. Crowds have

gathered as the military try to keep them at bay.

The guards let the convoy pass. The military is putting

up a number of large tents. A SERGEANT moves over

quickly to greet the team as they exit their vehicles.

Just then dozens of NEWS VANS pull up. Reporters and

camera crews come rushing toward them. The guards rush

to intercept. Stepping out of the next car in the

convoy, Nick and Elise join Major Hicks.

As they walk towards the tents the crowd crushes close.

Nick and Elsie are overwhelmed.

Several military guards have to clear a path for them as

they enter the tents.

Still in construction. The team enters.

This takes Major Hicks off guard. The last person he

wants to talk to. Nick walks over to the Sergeant.

Nick turns and notices the back of the tent is open

revealing a beautiful view of the Manhattan skyline.

Several soldiers enter, setting up telescopes.

Over Manhattan we see several dark plumes of smoke from

the destruction. Military helicopters scan the city.

Staring out at the skyline, Nick is mesmerized.

A SOLDIER comes rushing in.

He rushes over to a bank of monitors, turns one on. On

the screen we SEE the shaky video Animal took of the

creature just as it was about to step on him.

Nick and Elsie's jaws nearly hit the floor at the sight

of the immense creature.

The sounds of applause lead us to...

Everyone is applauding as Animal, carrying crates of

equipment, passes the t.v. playing the same news story.

Embarrassed, Animal smiles awkwardly.

Animal passes Audrey and Lucy who are packing up some

files.

We SEE the room is in disarray from packing up cartons

of boxes and equipment. The workers have taken a break

from the packing as they watch the t.v. broadcast. The

station manager, MURRAY enters anxiously.

Animal hurries out after him. Audrey and Lucy go back to

packing. Audrey looks up at the t.v. just as they replay

the footage of Nick and Elsie being led into the command

tent.

Surprised at first, Audrey suddenly becomes very

excited. She SEES Caiman exiting the studio at the end

of the hall. She rushes over to him.

Audrey holds up his bag as they walk towards the

elevator.

With that, Caiman walks into the elevator. Pissed,

Audrey just stares at him.

Audrey THROWS the bag at him, knocking him backwards as

the elevator doors close. Lucy walks over.

Lucy and Audrey carry their bags outside into the chaos

that has taken over the city. Hundreds of people trying

to leave at once. Gridlock.

As they move into an overcrowded subway entrance,

Audrey looks up just in time to SEE the WNEW NEWS

HELICOPTER lifting off from the building behind them.

We SEE the destroyed parts of downtown Manhattan. Police

barricade the streets as firemen work to contain the

fires.

Caiman stares earnestly at his video camera.

Below we see the largest traffic jam in the history of

the city. Police and National Guardsmen guide the

traffic.

Quick cuts of people who where interviewed earlier.

Near chaos as police and National guardsmen attempt to

bring order to the hundreds of honking, screaming

motorists.

RIOT POLICE VAN

Dozens of armed officers pile out of the van.

NATIONAL GUARDSMEN

Maintaining blockades in front of their military

vehicles.

The evacuation effort is made more difficult as traffic

must be diverted away from the quarantined destruction

area ahead. Police block the street, smoldering

buildings behind them. The detour only makes things

worse.

Several National Guardsmen walk up to the City Bank

building where they find an ENORMOUS HOLE smashed into

the side of the building. The Guardsmen peek inside.

GUARDSMEN'S P.O.V. - INTO BUILDING

We SEE THROUGH the building to a hold on the other side.

Godzilla apparently walked RIGHT THROUGH. The Guardsmen

are visibly shaken.

Way beyond capacity, the flooded subway platform bursts

with people pushing and shoving to get into the trains.

Caught in the craziness we find Audrey and Lucy trying

desperately to get on board.

The last to fit inside, Lucy and Audrey cram in just as

the doors shut behind them. People left behind BANG on

the closed doors as the subway pulls out.

A gigantic traffic back up all the way down the Westside

Highway. The bridge is a veritable parking lot.

With his close aides in tow, the Mayor stares at the

melee below.

AFTERNOON

The Mayor's helicopter sails over the George Washington

Bridge and over to a small landing pad near the Command

Center. A large group of people dressed in business

suits await the helicopter.

Just as the helicopter is landing, the crowd moves

toward the chopper.

Well that's a different story.

As the Mayor steps out he's greeted by a nervous crowd

of people shouting, "How long do we have to shut our

business down? Will the city cover the damages? Etc."

Among them, DONALD TRUMP tries to get the Mayor's

attention.

As he pushes through the dense crowd he runs directly

into...

RAYMOND

Who waits for the Mayor. The Mayor is momentarily

stopped.

With that he gently pats the Mayor on the back, leaving

a small, nearly undetectable DEVICE on the Mayor's

collar.

Briskly he shakes his hand as he pushes his way through

the crowd. Raymond watches him pass, seeing the device

stuck to the Mayor's collar.

ANGLE - WNEW NEWS CHOPPER

Rushing over from the parked news chopper, Animal and

Caiman race for the Mayor who walks through a mob of

reporters.

But before he can get close, two POLICE OFFICERS stop

them.

Flustered, Caiman searches his pockets for his press

pass.

CAIMAN'S PRESS PASS - ECU

We SEE Caiman's plastic smile on his press ID. Suddenly

AUDREY'S picture is placed on top of Caiman's.

Smashed together like sardines, Audrey plays with

Caiman's press pass, trying to put her photo over his.

Audrey looks over at a young ten year old boy holding

his backpack, a RULER sticking out of the back.

The Kid simply puts his hand out.

People FLOOD off the train out into the station.

Audrey and Lucy walk through the crowd. Audrey turns and

gives Lucy a kiss.

Lucy nods in acceptance as Audrey disappears into the

dense crowd. Lucy worries for her friend.

"YUM YUM DOUGHNUTS" BAG - PRE-SUNSET

Carried along with a Styrofoam cup of coffee. We WIDEN

TO REVEAL a MAN carrying the junk food to a GREY VAN

parked not too far from the Command Center Tent across

the way.

The man knocks on the back of the van. The van opens to

reveal...

Filled with high tech monitoring equipment, Raymond and

his men are listening in to a conversation. The man with

junk food hands it to Raymond.

He opens the bag and takes out a croissant. He bites

into it and grimaces. To wash away the taste, he drinks

from the coffee. It's worse than the croissant.

The man takes a seat near Raymond as Raymond turns up

the volume on his headset.

From behind the Mayor's head we SEE the monitoring

device attracted to his collar. As he speaks we WIDEN TO

REVEAL...

Representatives of all branches of the military,

National Guard and the Mayor's office are here. The room

overflows with people. Nick, Elsie and the scientist

stand near the back of the tent.

Just then Sergeant O'Neal enters hurriedly. He wants to

speak but waits for the opportunity.

A SIGN READING: SUBWAY STATION: 23RD STREET - SUNSET

We CRANE DOWN to reveal several military sedans pulling

up into FLAT IRON SQUARE (where Broadway meets 5th).

Sergeant O'Neal leads the team out of the cars and down

a subway entrance.

Marching down the stairs, the team enters into the very

large subway station. For all we see it seems like a

normal subway station except for the fact that every one

of the team members look ASTONISHED.

The camera makes a hundred and eighty degree turn as we

suddenly SEE what the team is staring at...

AN ENORMOUS HOLE

The four normal subway tunnels have been CARVED OUT

making one GIGANTIC TUNNEL. Debris and crumbled brick

are everywhere. Several SOLDIERS with flashlights

approach the hole.

Lt. Anderson moves over to the astonished group. Some of

the scientists fan out, examining the area.

LOW ANGLE - REVEALING THE HOLE IN THE CEILING

We SEE that not only is the ceiling gone but the

building above is hollowed and torn to shreds. Another

hole in the building leads to the street.

ANGLE - INSIDE DARKENED TUNNEL

As the SOLDIERS slowly move down deeper into the

tunnels, their flashlight beams scan the area. Could

they stumble onto something dangerous?

ANGLE - NICK

as he approaches Major Hicks and Sergeant O'Neal.

ANGLE - SOLDIERS - DARKNESS

Still moving deeper into the tunnel we get the feeling

these soldiers may just waken a sleeping giant.

BACK TO TEAM

Nick moves to the edge of the platform, looking off into

the dark tunnel.

ANGLE - SOLDIERS - DARKNESS

The lead Soldier SEES something. Cautiously he moves

forward thinking he's onto something. We HEAR something

MOVING in the darkness.

We FOLLOW his beam as the noise grows clearer. The beam

falls onto something on the floor...

A FISH

Flopping on the ground is a large FISH. As the beam

moves farther along we see two, no, three fish ahead.

A battalion of armored TANKS roll down this deserted

city street. A large number of GROUND TROOPS march

behind.

COBRA HELICOPTERS - SAME - MAGIC HOUR

Banking in formation, the helicopters swerve, heading

towards mid-town Manhattan.

SAND BAG FORTIFICATION

Soldiers pile up sand bags, creating a make shift

fortification. SHARP SHOOTERS and a BAZOOKA BRIGADE

settle into place.

Major Hicks moves over to a jeep and grabs the radio.

Major Hicks sits by a bank of communications

technicians.

Led by armored military vehicles we SEE a convoy of

TWENTY YELLOW DUMP TRUCKS passing over the bridge.

Sergeant O'Neal listens to the response on the radio.

The Sergeant signals several military technicians, who

are mounting several video cameras to hurry.

A buzz of activity. Military Officials and personnel.

The Mayor enters and joins his aides in the back of the

room.

The Aide shakes his head. Monitors come to life with a

live video feed-from several cameras we saw mounted.

A CABLE REPAIRMAN - MAGIC HOUR

In blue overalls, the REPAIRMAN walks up to a large

satellite dish. We WIDEN to REVEAL the dish is parked

next to the Command Tent. He kneels down next to some

cables leading away from the dish toward the Command

Tent.

Suddenly all the screens FUZZ OUT. Just as quickly the

monitors return to normal. No one seems to notice.

The Repairman finishes affixing a small DEVICE to the

cable. He taps his earpiece and speaks into his own

lapel.

We SEE Raymond and his men have turned this dingy Motel

room into a command central of their own. Raymond is

putting sugar into his coffee when a bank of monitors

turn on. They are seeing THE SAME VIDEO FEED as the

Mayor. Pleased, he takes a sip. It's awful.

His aid turns, holding a package labeled FRENCH ROAST.

His associate hands him some milk. He adds it to the

coffee. No use, it still sucks. On the monitors we SEE

the DUMP TRUCKS entering Flat Iron Square.

The DUMP TRUCKS arrive and the soldiers guide the

trucks, forming a circle, their tails facing each other.

As the last one passes it REVEALS Nick and Sergeant

O'Neal.

The twenty of them, in concert, begin to dump their

cargo.

LOW ANGLE - CENTER OF THE DUMP TRUCK CIRCLE

Tons and tons of FISH are DUMPED directly on top of us.

On the monitors they watch in astonishment as the fish

get dumped into a large pile in the center of Flat Iron

Square.

A

Flat Iron Square.

A master of the obvious. Sergeant O'Neal shoots him a

glare and moves over to the men. Together they march

into a building at the edge of the square.

SOLDIERS

Loading up rifles, taking positions. GAS MASKS being

handed out down a long line for all the soldiers.

The TANKS move into their final positions. The National

Guardsmen and Soldiers supporting the Tanks take

positions.

Entering from the stairs out onto the roof, Sergeant

O'Neal and his men take positions, observing from

above.

Everyone is waiting. The silence is deafening.

ANGLE - NICK

As everyone waits, Nick scans the area, thinking.

Suddenly something catches his eye...

STEAM VENT

Through a steam vent in the streets. Nick sees STEAM

lifting into the air. He notices several other vents

doing the same thing around the square. Quickly Nick

rushes over to a YOUNG OFFICER.

The Young Officer leads Nick over to his jeep. Nick

grabs the receiver.

O'Neal listens to Nick on his radio.

With a loud WHINE we HEAR the vents shutting down. The

large whirling FAN BLADES slow to a stop.

One by one the steam pillars begin to disappear as the

vents are turned off. There is a long tense moment of

waiting. When will it come?

Before the Young Officer can stop him, Nick rushes over

to a manhole cover in the center of the street. The

cover is to heavy. He yells back.

The Young Officer signals other soldiers. Nick steps

back and lets the soldiers go to work. As he walks back,

he spots another manhole cover at the next intersection

down a side street. He runs over to it.

ANGLE - SIDE STREET - MANHOLE COVER

A particularly heavy one in the center of this

intersection (a block away from Flat Iron Square), Nick,

alone, wrestles to remove it. With all his might, he

drags it clear.

Suddenly, through the hole he HEARS some STRANGE NOISES

from below. Rattled, he slowly backs away from the hole.

The NOISES grow increasingly louder.

Then with a DEAFENING ROAR, the ground behind Nick

ERUPTS and GODZILLA RISES, ripping up the boulevard as

he does.

Nick SPINS only to find himself face to face with the

gigantic creature. Godzilla's head slopes down,

apparently looking Nick in the eye.

All around foot soldiers appear, guns trained, shoulder

hoisted rocket launchers prepared.

Out of the corner of his eye, Nick sees all this. He

gently signals with his hands that they should NOT fire.

Sensing no danger from Nick, Godzilla simply STEPS OVER

Nick.

NICK'S POV - UNDER GODZILLA

As the gargantuan creature walks over us, making a

beeline for the fish.

Nick turns and RUNS, following him.

Godzilla moves into the square. The military hunkers

down, ready to strike. Cautiously the beast moves over

to the mountain of fish.

Major Hicks watches the monitors as Godzilla approaches

the fish.

Everyone on the rooftop puts on their GAS MASKS.

ANGLE - STREET LEVEL - SAME

All the soldiers PUT ON their GAS MASKS. A team of

EIGHT, pull out a GAS CANISTERS and yank the releases.

They DROP them down the long barrels of air cannons,

preparing to fire.

SAND BAG FORTIFICATION - SAME

Nick runs past the fortification, trying to get a closer

look. The Young Officer yells after him.

Nick stops briefly as the Young Officer TOSSES a gas

mask to Nick who quickly puts it on and dashes for a

closer spot. Suddenly SAILING OVER HIS HEAD we SEE...

GAS CANISTERS

Firing from the air cannons, the GAS CANISTERS streak

across the sky landing behind Godzilla. The Yellow gas

forms a wall of smoke that drifts upwards.

ANOTHER ANGLE - OPPOSITE CORNER

Across the way eight MORE CANISTERS are FIRED at the

beast. Quickly Godzilla is surrounded by the gas fumes.

ANGLE - NICK

Frustrated at his inability to see through the smoke, he

DASHES forward over to a large BRONZE STATUE.

GODZILLA

The smoke annoying and distracting him, Godzilla spins,

his tail waving the smoke away. But the smoke returns.

Godzilla YELLS OUT. Frustrated he rears back and

BLASTS!

For the first time we SEE the infamous POWER BREATH of

Godzilla. With amazing FORCE the smoke, canisters, cars

and anything that isn't nailed down SAILS BACKWARDS from

the intense pressure.

Nick is HIT by the WAVE of air pressure and is sent

FLYING BACKWARDS, impossibly high in the air.

An enormous fabric BANNER advertising this season at the

MET, catches Nick who SLIDES down the banner, hitting

the ground, HARD. Just as he looks up he SEES...

A LARGE TRUCK

Tumbling toward him from the power breath. Nick

SCRAMBLES to his feet just in time as the rolling Truck

SMASHES into the building behind where he just sat.

ANGLE - TROOPS - FORTIFICATION

The troops have to SCATTER as the tumbling trucks and

cars are FLUNG AT THEM, disabling their attack forces.

Trucks and rocket launches are CRUSHED by the tumbling

debris.

Godzilla CONTINUES to BLOW at everything around him.

Cars and trucks ROLLING. Soldiers DIVING for cover. It's

chaos.

The glass in all the surrounding buildings SHATTER,

shards of glass raining down. Windows, street lamps, all

blown out by the tremendous gale force winds.

On the monitors we SEE the melee.

From all angles, soldiers rush back to their equipment

and attempt to FIRE. Very few are able to get off

rounds.

O'Neal tries to steady himself as the soldiers FIRE down

at the creature below. One HOISTS a MISSILE launcher.

ANGLE - GODZILLA - NIGHT

As the FIREPOWER begins around Godzilla, he takes a hit

in the shoulder and SCREAMS OUT. Suddenly he LEAPS away

just as several MISSLES HIT the Flat Iron Building

behind where Godzilla was standing only moments

earlier.

Dashing down a side street, Godzilla LEAPS over the

waiting tanks who cannot adjust their cannons in time.

are SQUASHED as the beast bull dozes right through the

regiment.

We SEE the Flat Iron Building crumbling on one of the

monitors near Major Hicks. In the rear of the room the

Mayor looks sick.

Soldiers come out from behind the crashed vehicles and

debris. Only the smoldering devastation is left behind.

The monitors only show static or devastation.

Quickly his men are packing up.

Four ARMORED MILITARY VEHICLES come SKIDDING around the

corner in hot pursuit. Each with a team manning enormous

mounted weaponry.

REVERSE ANGLE - 6TH AVE. -

Galloping like a Gisele uptown, Godzilla is SPEEDING up

the boulevard. The armored vehicles OPEN FIRE. Some

shots CLIP into Godzilla's back. Ahead he is running

directly into...

MOBILE MISSILE LAUNCHERS

Blocking off the street in front of him. They FIRE.

Pinned down, the creature SCREAMS and DUCKS away down

another side street. The missiles can't turn fast enough

and SLAM into a building, DEMOLISHING it.

The window is SMASHED in. A small group of LOOTERS are

loading up their mini-van. Finishing up the group is

about to leave.

The group rejoins Jimmy as they try to pull an enormous

Pin Ball machine from the window. As they carry the

machine back towards the mini-van...

SQUASH! - GIGANTIC FOOT

Godzilla's enormous foot flattens the mini-van like a

pancake. The Looters go pale. As the Military Armored

Vehicles RACE by in hot pursuit.

Godzilla BOUNDS onto Broadway and FREEZES, looking

around. As he looks downtown he SEES...

GODZILLA'S P.O.V. - MILITARY ARMORED VEHICLES

Skidding around the corner a few blocks back, the

armored vehicles reappear.

Godzilla turns uptown and BOLTS. As he gets up to full

speed...

COBRA HELICOPTERS

A team of FOUR COBRA HELICOPTERS swoops down heading

directly for Godzilla.

The Mayor stands over a Radio technician.

Godzilla runs into the famous lighted square (looking

remarkably like Tokyo) just as the COBRA'S come SWEEPING

DOWN out of the sky.

Godzilla SPOTS them and leaps away just as they FIRE

missiles, which RIP INTO the famous JUMBO TRON VIDEO

BILLBOARD, demolishing the building.

The Cobra's SWERVE quickly, pursuing Godzilla down a

side street.

Godzilla appears, turning the corner and racing down the

street. From behind, the Cobra helicopters come

SCREAMING down on him, they FIRE ROCKETS at Godzilla

who, again, deftly turns a corner.

The errant rockets BLAST into the CHRYSLER BUILDING, as

they attempt to follow him but fail. Shards of glass come

RAINING DOWN as the building crumbles.

ANGLE - ARMORED VEHICLES

As they race around the corner they SLAM ON THE BREAKS

just as the familier CONE of the Chrysler building comes

tumbling into the street.

The static increases over the radio.

The Mayor, in the back of the room stands, furious.

His aides try to calm him.

Moving through the narrow side street.

The four Cobra helicopters ZOOM around the corner and

into 5th avenue.

COBRA HELICOPTER P.O.V. - GODZILLA

Godzilla is ahead of us. The choppers FIRE again, this

time using their gun turrets, ACCELERATING toward the

beast.

Under heavy bullet firepower and the choppers nearly on

top of him, Godzilla DIVES into an office building.

The helicopters surround the crumbling building, and

OPEN FIRE, decimating it. They STOP firing and stare

into the smoldering mess they've made.

Just then ERUPTING out of a building behind them...

POUNCES OUT of the building, snapping up two of the

helicopters in

He WHIRLS around and SWIPES another out of the air with

his ENORMOUS CLAW. The CLAWED helicopter SLAMS into the

ground just as...

ARMORED VEHICLES

come sliding around the corner, directly into the

CRASHING HELICOPTER which explodes on impact. The entire

team is taken out with the concussion.

Major Hicks is on his feet, steaming mad.

As the remaining Cobra helicopter SWERVES around,

Godzilla is gone.

As the helicopter PASSES a dark building we SEE a SHAPE

MOVE! We realize that like a chameleon, Godzilla had

TAKEN THE COLOR of the building and hid. With the

helicopter past him, he CHASES FROM THE REAR.

The chopper GUNS IT, full throttle. Godzilla GIVES

CHASE. Even at its top speed it can't out run the big

creature.

The chopper tries to LIFT AWAY but before he can get the

height, Godzilla SNAPS his gigantic jaws and

STREET - WIDE ANGLE

The fires burn and the rubble crumbles. Godzilla gives

one final SCREAM and DIVES into a building,

disappearing.

The Major's aide try to hold him back as the Mayor is

charging at Major Hicks.

Empty and devastated. Fires continue to burn.

Nick, Sergeant O'Neal and several of his men walk

through the devastated area. Nick kneels down and

SEES...

NICK'S P.O.V. - PUDDLE OF BLOOD

There is a large reddish brown puddle of blood. Nick

takes out a small glass container and scoops some up.

Nick walks over to him, consoling.

REVERSE ANGLE

Only a few scattered fish remain where the mountain of

fish once was. Our team stands there amidst the rubble.

FADE IN:

A network news ANCHOR speaks directly at us as a video

of the Chrysler building getting destroyed plays behind

him.

The video switches to the White House where we SEE the

President signing a bill.

We SEE that we've been watching the video on one of MANY

video monitors showing all the news broadcasts. As an

assistant moves away from the monitors we FOLLOW him out

of the truck.

We continue to FOLLOW the assistant outside, revealing

the enormous MOB of reporters that have gathered just

outside the military command tents. As we FOLLOW the

assistant he passes several reporters doing "stand-up"

reports.

The assistant finally arrives at Caiman who is doing a

live remote. Animal works the camera.

Behind him, in the crowd we SEE Audrey pushing her way

through the reporters, her fake ID pinned on her shirt.

She turns and sees Caiman. Quickly she ducks down and

moves deeper into the crowds.

Suddenly there is movement as the crowd turns their

collective attention over to a group of cars pulling up

nearby. Audrey pushes her way to see what's happening.

The cars are BLOCKED from returning to the command tents

as the reporters MOB the first car in line.

Nick observes the chaos. Through the crowd he SEES a

Pharmacy, a neon sign reading: Never Closes. He looks

back down at the blood sample he holds in his lap and

gets an idea.

He opens the car door and pushes his way through the

crowds who are less interested in him as they are the

military officials.

NICK'S P.O.V. - MEDIA CIRCUS - CROWDS - NIGHT

Pushing his way through, Nick SEES what a circus this

has become; t.v. news camera crews, journalists,

concerned citizens, worried mothers, and of course,

merchandising...

STREET STANDS

Nick passes several vendors selling dinosaur toys,

copies of Animal's now famous news video clip and, of

course, tee shirts with still images from that same

clip.

ANGLE - AUDREY

Through the dense crowd, Audrey SEES Nick in the

distance. Excited she starts to push her way through.

Ringing the night bell, Nick calls for the PHARMACIST

who enters, weary eyed.

The Pharmacist puts onto the counter six different off

the shelf home pregnancy tests.

Nick spins to find Audrey standing right behind him.

Embarrassed, Nick awkwardly pays for the tests.

The Pharmacist puts out Nick's change. He scoops it out

and we FOLLOW them as they exit together.

He points to her fake press ID she's still wearing.

Nick opens the door for Audrey and follows her out.

Audrey turns and walks away. Nick regrets his behavior

and calls after her.

There's an awkward moment as neither knows what to say.

Off Nick's awkward reaction...

Nick has set up a mini-lab in his private, small, tent.

The home pregnancy tests have been ripped apart. Nick

mixes some of the contents together.

Nick finishes his concoction, adding the blood sample

into it He takes the piece of litmus paper from one of

the home test boxes and dips it in.

Nick points out the litmus paper. It turns RED.

Nick gets up and starts to gather his materials.

Excitedly Nick begins to pace.

Nick moves to the front exit of the tent.

Nick rushes from the tent. Alone, Audrey can't help but

poke around a bit. She opens one of his CASES. Taped to

the roof of the case she SEES...

INSERT PHOTOS - NICK AND AUDREY

Happy times long ago. They're both young and in love.

Audrey is surprised Nick still keeps them. She's

touched.

Feeling guilty she quickly closes the case and sits back

down. As she does she notices a video tape labeled

FIRST SIGHTING. Unable to resist, she puts it in and

turns on the t.v. The shot of the Japanese Cook

appears.

She hits the fast forward tape and SEES, the enormous

footprints in Panama. She fast forwards again and sees

the beached cargo ship in Jamaica.

Audrey is torn. She makes a decision, pops the tape back

out, puts in her purse and takes off out the back of the

tent. Moments later, Nick returns from the front.

A flash of lighting and thunder accents Nick's

confusion.

On two monitors we SEE Audrey doing a "stand up."

We pull back to reveal Audrey, Animal and an editor,

ED, watching the piece.

Audrey covers her own mixed emotions.

She snatches the tape and she takes off running.

Concerned and worried, Animal watches her leave.

Rushing out of the WNEW truck and into the rain, Audrey

spots her Station Manager, Murray. In the b.g. we SEE

Caiman getting make up, about to do a live spot with

another cameraman.

ANGLE - CAIMAN

About to go on, Caiman waves off his make up artist as

he watches Audrey hand Murray the tape. His field

producer counts down to going live.

P.O.V. THROUGH BINOCULARS - NICK - RAIN - MORNING

Through the lenses we SEE exiting his tent and moving on

towards the large center command tent. We REVERSE to

reveal...

One of Raymond's men observes with binoculars from the

window. Tucking his napkin into his lapel, Raymond eats

breakfast with his men. Another man, JEAN-CLAUDE,

listens at the monitoring equipment. He turns to

Raymond.

He turns on the room speaker.

Nick is moving to take his seat next to Elise at this

very crowded conference. The big wigs are here and the

room is packed. Major Hicks walks to a large map of

Manhattan.

All eyes turn towards Nick who's still arranging his

papers. Nervously Nick addresses the crowd.

There's a smattering of laughter in the room.

Raymond listens intently. He grabs a folder off the desk

and opens it. We SEE photos and documents of every

member of the team. He finds the photo of Nick and

examines it.

Audrey shakes off the rain and moves over to join Ed and

Animal at a booth.

An AIDE comes in and whispers something into the

Governor's ear, who nods approval.

The Aide moves over to a television and turns it on.

Just as the t.v. comes to life we SEE the old Japanese

Cook.

The image of the Cook saying, "Gojira" FREEZES and cuts

back to reveal Caiman doing his "stand-up."

Audrey is furious, on her feet.

Animal tries to calm her down as the story continues.

Fiddling with the motel t.v., Raymond's men attempt to

clear the fuzzy picture.

Finally the picture clears.

Everyone stares at the television. Major Hicks burns

with embarrassment.

The military men are furious at the breach of security.

All eyes turn toward Nick.

Pissed, GENERAL ANDERSON walks up to Nick.

Caiman is still on television, wrapping up.

Audrey wads up her napkin and heaves it at the t.v.

The television is snapped OFF and Raymond walks over to

the window looking out, thinking. Finally...

A LARGE TRUNK

Slams shut. More suitcases and trunks. Widen to

reveal...

Nick is finishing packing as some soldiers carry his

things away. Elsie enters.

Nick hoists his bag and moves to leave.

Reluctantly Nick nods acceptance and exits out into the

rain. We SEE the torn photographs of Nick and Audrey

laying on the floor.

Audrey in a street phone booth.

Something catches Audrey's eye.

AUDREY'S P.O.V. - THROUGH GLASS - NICK

Lugging his bags out into the rain, Nick moves over to a

waiting cab.

Lifting a heavy case, Nick places it into the cab's

trunk.

Audrey moves up behind Nick.

Nick ignores her and continues to load the cab.

The last bag stowed, Nick moves to get into the cab. He

stops and turns back to her.

He gets in and slams the door. The cab takes off leaving

a very alone Audrey standing in the rain.

Long waiting lines for people trying to leave town.

People sleeping on the floors. Chaos. One group gathered

around a television set.

T.V. NEWS BROADCAST - VIDEO

We see images from crowed refugee shelters.

As we TRACK away from the t.v. we FIND Nick taking a

seat at a small bar next to the gate. A WAITER comes

over.

Before Nick can answer...

Taking a seat directly across from Nick, Raymond sits

down, sizing him up. Nick is confused.

Raymond pulls out his badge and lays it on the table in

front of Nick.

Nick realizes Raymond is serious. The waiter hands

Raymond his drink. Raymond toasts Nick.

A makeshift tent city has been set up in the park.

Animal video tapes an interview with a displaced

person.

Animal begins to PAN his camera around the tent city

when he SEES a SEDAN in the distance. He focus in on it

and SEES...

ANIMAL'S P.O.V. - SEDAN - NICK AND RAYMOND

Coming to stop at a light. Animal quickly lowers his

camera and hands it off to the Reporter he's working

with.

Animal rushes over to the news van and takes off after

them, following.

Pulling up in front of a warehouse, Nick and Raymond

step out of the sedan. Staying hidden from view, Animal

pulls over. Intrigued, he watches them enter the

building.

Raymond enters with Nick. The room is filled with

equipment; radios, guns, explosives and armored

vehicles. We notice that more of Raymond's support team

are here.

Raymond gives Nick a tour.

Nick stops and confronts Raymond.

Raymond considers this. Finally...

Moving down alongside the building, Animal walks down

the side alley. He climbs up onto a garbage hamper and

peers into a cracked opened window.

ANIMAL'S P.O.V. - WAREHOUSE

Animal sees Nick and Raymond with all the hardware.

Several of the men are repainting the vehicles to

resemble those of the US Army.

Nick walks past the myriad of warfare tools. Jean-Claude

turns from the radios.

Raymond leads Nick over to a large map.

Nick moves closer to the map, putting his finger on the

Flat Iron square subway station.

Animal quickly climbs the stairs. People are everywhere.

He has to step over them to get to his apartment. AS he

opens the door to his apartment he SEES...

Filled with people, Lucy is serving coffee. She smiles

at Animal as he enters.

Lucy pushes Animal towards the back bedroom.

Audrey has been crying. Crumpled Kleenex wads piled up

all around her. A television plays a news broadcast,

boasting the headline: THEY CALL HIM

t.v. we SEE a news conference with General Anderson

addressing some reporters.

Animal enters and watches from the back of the room.

Suddenly someone exits the bathroom and crosses out of

the room. Animal looks at the stranger as he leaves.

Audrey tries to make sense of this. Suddenly she

realizes.

Excitedly Animal goes to the closet and retrieves a big

overcoat.

He starts going through his drawers, taking out battery

packs, tapes, etc, and putting it in his pockets.

Animal walks up to the door, ready to exit.

Conflicted, Audrey is not sure what to do. Animal opens

the bedroom window and begins to climb out.

Nick marches out of a changing room dressed in a

military uniform. As he moves into the room we SEE all

of Raymond's men dressed similarly.

As they climb into their vehicles, Raymond hands each a

stick of chewing gum. Nick gets in the passenger seat of

one of the vehicles, Raymond climbs in behind the

wheel.

Nick looks over at the faux Americans. It's a tough

sell, gum or not.

With that the vehicles pull out of the warehouse and out

into the rainy night.

An armed blockage seals the Jersey entrance to the

Lincoln tunnel. We widen to reveal Audrey and Animal by

a small side entrance. Animal works the lock.

Just then the lock TURNS and the door opens. They

enter.

A line of military vehicles approaches and slowly passes

through a guarded entrance, each vehicle checked. Nick

and Raymond's Humvee nears.

ANGLE - GUARDED BLOCKADE - CONTINUOUS

Raymond's Humvee rolls up and a GUARD walks up to the

window.

him out.

The Guard is suspicious but on a tight schedule. Finally

he waves him through.

They drive off. Nick is stunned by the act.

The door creeps open. Animal leans out to find the

tunnel deserted. He and Audrey step out and into the

tunnel. We FOLLOW them as they are headed for the exit

of the tunnel into Manhattan.

Raymond and Nick drive through Central Park. We can SEE

dozens of military people and vehicles in a large

meadow.

The enormous pile of fish is getting dumped in the

center of the field as many others are planting land

mines. Tanks, rockets and soldiers align the area.

The convoy of vehicles turn onto the meadow but Raymond

and his men keep going straight. They drive slowly right

past the trap sight and out of the park.

TIRES SQUEALING TO A STOP

Doors slam and immediately boots march past. We WIDEN to

reveal Raymond's team quickly gathering their gear and

heading down the subway entrance.

Raymond grabs a heavy bag and tosses it to Nick who

nearly topples from the weight.

Nick looks into the bag and sees a bag marked

EXPLOSIVES. Shocked he looks back at Raymond, but he's

gone. Nick regains his breath and follows.

THE FISH

Older and nastier, but the same fish we saw in the

tunnel before. We FOLLOW the beam to its owner and find

Nick. We WIDEN to reveal that we're....

The crisscrossing beams from the assault team's

flashlights nearly blind us as Nick leads the team

cautiously into the depth of this tunnel. Periodic fish

are found along the way. Suddenly the faint HUMMING

sound in the tunnel STOPS.

Everyone freezes as the wind shifts direction. A

familiar SMELL passes over them as they sniff the air.

Nervously they continue onward.

Animal and Audrey arrive, spotting the assault team's

vehicles. They head carefully down the stairs.

Audrey and Animal, camera in hand shooting everything,

climb down into the station. Animal rushes to the end of

the platform and searches down into the tunnels.

VIDEO P.O.V. - DARK TUNNEL - DISTANT LIGHTS

Through the camera we SEE the lights in the distance of

the tunnel.

Animal jumps off the platform, down onto what's left of

the tracks. Audrey squeamishly follows.

Nick kneels down to inspect some debris. An old

SCREECHING SOUND is heard in the distance. Suddenly the

ground begins to quake. Dust falling. The SCREECHING

gets louder and louder.

Raymond moves up to Nick and points ahead. Nick nods in

nervous agreement. Just as they move towards the sounds

the ENTIRE WALL OF THE TUNNEL COLLAPSES next to them.

Bursting through the tunnel wall GODZILLA appears. His

enormous claws burrowing, he makes his way through and

into the tunnel. Quickly he moves past the team.

The team DIVES into a cross tunnel just as the colossal

beast BLASTS past them, barely missing them.

Audrey and Animal have just gotten into the tunnel

entrance. The entire place is shaking. Audrey is in a

panic.

But Animal hoists his camera and starts filming as

SOMETHING is moving TOWARDS them. Audrey is tugging at

him as the shaking gets more violent. With all her

strength, she finally gets Animal to start moving

backwards.

Just as they're out of the tunnel, the CREATURE BLASTS

outward. Audrey and Animal DIVE into the maintenance

ducks along side the tracks to avoid collision.

ANGLE - AUDREY AND ANIMAL

Animal is shielding Audrey with his body. She looks up

just in time to SEE Godzilla CRAWLING UP and out through

the ceiling. An amazing site.

Animal grabs his camera and gets the last moment of it

disappearing from view. Once gone, they both break into

enormous sighs of relief and nervous laughter.

Recovering, Raymond and the team walk back into the main

tunnel. They near the hole Godzilla just created,

examining it. Nick climbs into the hole.

Raymond and his men follow.

Major Hicks is at the radio as the Generals sit behind

him.

The park is bathed in light. Armed troops surround the

area. Tanks and missile launchers are in place. Sergeant

O'Neal kneels down by a sandbag fortification.

From the rooftop of one of the central park south high

rises, a team of SPOTTERS scan the area.

SPOTTER P.O.V. - THROUGH BINOCULARS - GODZILLA

Moving steadily towards central park, Godzilla makes his

way up seventh avenue.

The Sergeant gives the nod and several teams of shooters

take off running, taking positions. The tanks turn their

gun turrets towards downtown, expectantly. Missile

launchers turn, arming devices locked.

Major Hicks stands near a computerized schematic of

Manhattan. A large RED FLASHING BLIP nears Central

Park.

Godzilla moves up 7th Ave. He reaches Central Park South

and STOPS. He glances over to the park where bright

lights are glaring.

Something is making Godzilla more cautious this time.

Unsure he vacillates between moving forward and staying

within the shelter of the tall buildings.

ANGLE - O'NEAL - CENTRAL PARK

ANGLE - GODZILLA

Still unsure, he ROARS out, frustrated with his own

indecision.

Nick leads the team through the cross town tunnel

created by Godzilla. Climbing over the debris, they make

their way to another opening. We FOLLOW them as they

clamber through the hole and into...

The largest subway/rail station in New York. Godzilla

has torn it to shreds. We get the feeling this is where

Godzilla has spent most of his time. Scattered fish

abound.

High above, there is a immense black hole in the tall

ceiling. Wherever it leads to is very dark. Nick and

Raymond stare at the hole together.

NIGHT

Climbing the stairs out from the subway, Nick et all

walk up onto the street to SEE...

MADISON SQUARE GARDEN

The team cautiously approaches the building.

Carefully moving out from between the buildings Godzilla

takes a step into Central Park.

Guns are cocked, locked on and hoisted. Suddenly

Godzilla gets cold feet and starts to turn around.

The RED BLIP suddenly begins to move away from the

park.

All the weapons surround the area FIRE AT ONCE. Several

more Cobra Helicopters ZOOM DOWN out of nowhere.

Plunging downward, they FIRE at Godzilla.

The firepower ripping up everything around him, Godzilla

ROARS and deftly DIVES out of the park and back between

the buildings.

But as he bounds over to 57th street, there is a

contingency of MOBILE ROCKET LAUNCHERS waiting. They

FIRE. Godzilla DODGES and the rockets

With the helicopters right on his tail, Godzilla makes a

westward run across 57th street. Smashing parked

vehicles and his tail SWIPING buildings as it DASHES.

WEST SIDE HIGHWAY

Godzilla is heading straight for it, the helicopters

SHOOTING from the air. Suddenly Godzilla LEAPS higher

than we've seen before. He hurls himself OVER the West

Side Highway and SPLASHES DOWN into the Hudson River,

vanishing beneath the water's surface.

Furious, Major Hicks throws his headset against the

console violently. ADMIRAL JOHNSTON leans down into

frame.

THREE NUCLEAR SUBMARINES

In the murky waters of the Hudson river.

The alarm KLAXONS are RINGING OUT as everyone rushes to

battle stations. The CAPTAIN moves over to a sonar

screen; a large MASS nearby blips on the screen.

Different monitors have put up a three dimensional

schematic of the Hudson river. We SEE outlines of the

three nuclear subs approaching their target.

The doors are pried open. It's very dark in here, only

the assault team's flashlights illuminate. As they enter

the lobby, the team splits up into different search

groups.

Nick, Raymond and Jean-Claude move down the large front

lobby and turn down one of the many hallways surrounding

the main auditorium.

ANGLE - HALLWAY - ENTRY LEVEL - CONTINUOUS

Cautiously they move towards us. In the distance we see

the rest of the team moving the other direction. Raymond

and Nick arrive at a door leading to the main

auditorium. Nick is about to push the door open when

Raymond stops him.

On command, Jean-Claude snaps together his automatic

rifle as Raymond pulls out his semi-automatic pistol. He

nods "okay" to Nick who slowly opens the door.

As the door opens a small pile of FISH tumbles down over

their feet. They step over the fish and enter.

Total darkness. Nick, Raymond and Jean-Claude cautiously

step over the fish inside. Only their flashlight beams

can be seen.

NICK'S P.O.V. - TRASHED AUDITORIUM

His beam cruises over the area nearby. It's been gutted.

Fish lay strewed on the floor everywhere. Suddenly Nick

spots a strange cluster of OBJECTS. He moves closer.

Raymond follows. With their combined light we can

SEE...

THREE ENORMOUS EGGS

A pile of reptile eggs nearly twice as tall as they are.

Raymond walks behind the egg, illuminating it from the

other side, making it partially translucent. We can SEE

THE EMBRYO inside the egg and

Slowly Nick turns and SEES what Jean-Claude is staring

at open jawed...

DOZENS OF EGGS

Together their beams of light scan across the main

auditorium floor surrounding the gaping hole to discover

DOZENS OF EGGS piled in clumps everywhere.

Another of Raymond's men (R-MAN #2) has found a

switchboard, he examines the switches.

Animal and Audrey are wandering through the debris.

R-MAN #2 locates the switch he's looking for and hits

it.

Nick, Raymond and Jean-Claude are stunned as the work

lights suddenly TURN ON illuminating the room,

revealing...

All over the main auditorium floor. A stunning tableau.

Nick is speechless. Raymond turns to him.

The light filters down from the gaping hole in the

ceiling.

Together they notice some large metal piping that has

fallen from the auditorium. They move over to it and

begin to climb.

The Arizona races past us.

We follow a runner who hands a report to the Admiral who

is conferring with the General and Major Hicks by the

schematic. The Admiral reads the report.

He swims at enormous speed heading directly at the

Arizona.

The lights dim as they prepare for battle.

The torpedo is FIRED and comes darting directly at

Godzilla who abruptly SWERVES. The torpedo, however,

FOLLOWS him.

ANGLE - SUBMARINE - CALVIN COOLIDGE

From the other direction, closing in. Godzilla DIVES,

skidding close to the bottom. The TORPEDO begins to

close the gap.

Suddenly Godzilla SHOOTS UPWARDS heading directly for

the underside of the Calvin Coolidge.

The Calvin's CAPTAIN rushes over to the sonar screens.

Godzilla RAMS the underside of the Calvin Coolidge

before she can turn. The entire sub SPINS, TWISTING OVER

its side and colliding directly with...

THE TORPEDO

slams into the side of the rolling and dented nuclear

submarine. With a CONCUSSION the sub EXPLODES.

An enormous SPRAY OF WATER erupts from the river,

bubbles and debris float to the surface.

The computerized representation of the Calvin Coolidge

VANISHES off the monitor.

The Admiral burns.

The BLIP representing Godzilla turns.

Godzilla attempts to make his way back to the shore. The

Indiana and Arizona close in on either side.

Boxed in from either side, Godzilla RACES through the

water. At the same moment both submarines FIRE their

torpedoes.

Godzilla reaches the underwater shoreline of Manhattan

and begins BURROWING FURIOUSLY. As his gigantic claws

start DIGGING up earth, an enormous TURBULENCE of clouds

and dirt cloud the waters around him, cloaking him.

The Captain and his Ensign are at the Sonar. We TRACK

two torpedoes approaching target (Godzilla).

Huddled around the schematic and radio, they hear...

The torpedoes ENTER into frame and disappear into this

undersea dust cloud. An enormous EXPLOSION BLASTS from

its center, waves of concussion reverberate.

With the EXPLOSION and enormous TIDAL WAVE rises and

CRASHES DOWN over battery park with tremendous impact.

Parked cars and phone booths are washed away.

The ENSIGN checks the SONAR.

The crew erupts in cheers.

They hear the cheering from the sub over the radio.

The Generals congratulate each other and Major Hicks.

Toppling down out of the murky turbulence, we SEE

Godzilla falling away from the shoreline, backwards the

ocean floor, drifting down to the bottom of the Hudson

river like so many cement shoed gangsters.

Raymond and his men are laying out the plastic

explosives around the room by the clumps of eggs.

Jean-Claude walks up to Raymond.

Raymond turns and sees Nick, across the room studying a

group of eggs. Raymond goes towards him.

ANGLE - AUDITORIUM FLOOR - HOLE - SAME

Crawling out from the hole in the center of the floor,

Animal and Audrey appear. They're stunned at what they

see. Quickly Animal hoists his camera and begins to film

as an amazed Audrey walks through.

ANGLE - NICK AND EGGS - MID-LEVEL DECK

Kneeling down along side the eggs, Nick examines them.

Raymond approaches.

Nick silences him with a gesture as he moves in to

listen to the egg. He leans his ear against the shell.

Suddenly we HEAR a loud CRACK. Nick jumps backwards.

The shell RUPTURES and an large FISSURE opens up across

the egg. As we hear other CRACKS O.S., Nick turns and

SEES more eggs beginning to open all around them.

ANGLE - AUDREY AND ANIMAL - FLOOR LEVEL

Hidden in this forest of tall eggs, Animal leans in

close to one getting video footage of it cracking.

Audrey nervously watches. What she doesn't see, however,

is a BABYZILLA, fish hanging from its jaw, as it

approaches from behind.

ANGLE - NICK AND RAYMOND

Stunned, they can only stare as the BABYZILLA BREAKS

FREE of his shell and gives a mini version of the famous

WAIL.

The BABYZILLA kneels down and immediately starts

GOBBLING UP the dead fish laying nearby. Cautiously Nick

and Raymond slowly back away until they are a far enough

distance, they they break into a run and head for the

exit.

ANGLE - AUDREY AND ANIMAL - FLOOR LEVEL

The Babyzilla continues to chomp on its fish as it nears

Audrey. Animal continues to shoot the cracking egg.

Just then Animal turns to SEE the Babyzilla right behind

Audrey.

Audrey turns to see what Animal is staring at. Her eyes

go WIDE as she backs up into Animal. Another BABYZILLA

appear on the other side of them.

Animal leads Audrey backwards as they make their way

towards the large "team" entrance at the end of the

floor. The two Babyzillas swallow their fish and begin

to SNIFF the air.

Audrey moves up the isle. An egg CRACKS and an ARM

breaks out through a shell, GRABBING HER LEG. Audrey

FREAKS and frantically she KICKS herself free. They both

suddenly take off running.

Nick and Raymond race to the stairwell. Raymond pulls

out his radio.

ANGLE - JEAN-CLAUDE - MID-LEVEL DECKS - ACROSS THE ROOM

Laying down the plastic explosives. Hearing the radio,

he drops what they're doing just as several eggs near

them begin to CRACK. Quickly he and his partner take off

running.

Two other men are still laying cables for the

explosives. One of them is kneeling in a pile of FISH

near the eggs.

Just then a BABYZILLA pops up behind the eggs, a fish in

his mouth. He SWALLOWS the fish and begins SNIFFING THE

AIR. He turns and stares directly at the slowly

retreating R-MAN #3.

He smells his own hands and realizes he smells like

fish, quickly he turns and RUNS.

But Babyzilla is faster. He runs up from behind and

LEAPS onto R-MAN #3's back. R-MAN #2 begins to FIRE at

Babyzilla just as another one TACKLES HIM from the

side.

In moments, they are both devoured.

Audrey and Animal reach the entrance and race inside.

The main exit doors are locked from the outside. They

turn back just as...

THREE BABYZILLAS

appear in the team entrance doorway SNIFFING THE AIR.

Audrey SEES something, grabs Animal's wrist and pulls

him to one of the Locker room doors. It's open.

Through the door we SEE the Babyzilla approaching as

Audrey and Animal leap inside, slamming the door behind

them. There is a sudden THUD against the door.

Animal rushes over to a large LOCKER CABINET and, with

all his strength, PUSHES it over, blocking the door.

Nick and Raymond run up to another open doorway and look

inside.

NICK'S P.O.V. - AUDITORIUM

Dozens and dozens of eggs HATCHING. BABYZILLAS

everywhere begin to awaken and immediately begin to

devour all the fish. A Babyzilla appears only feet away

and turns and stares directly at us.

Quickly Raymond slams the doors shut as they both

retreat back into the hallway. Raymond SMASHES the glass

covering of a nearby FIRE HOSE and raps it around the

door handles, locking it closed.

Suddenly a loud THUD as something begins to BANG against

the locked doorway.

Raymond tosses his cellular phone to Nick.

Amazed by Raymond, Nick just stares at him.

Nick snaps out of it and dials.

A large and ANGRY mob has gathered at the roadblock to

the bridge. People, their cars packed with belongings,

are screaming to be let back into Manhattan. Horns honk

and the blockade guards are getting nervous.

The Mayor marches over to Major Hicks who is consulting

with the Generals.

Just then Elise rushes over to the Major.

Major Hicks is torn. Finally he nods in agreement,

turning to another officer.

The Major turns and cooly approaches the Mayor.

Major Hicks smiles at the Mayor who exits, petulantly.

NIGHT

We SEE dozens and dozens of Babyzillas fighting with

each other over the last of the fish. Suddenly this

image is SLAMMED SHUT as doors are closed and a FIRE

HOSE is rapped around door handles. We widen to

reveal...

Raymond fastening the hose around the door. Secured,

Raymond takes off running.

Nick is on the pay phone frantically dialing as Raymond

comes up. We hear a BUSY signal from the phone. Nick

dials again.

Jean-Clude and his partner arrive.

Nick nods in agreement and takes off down stairs. The

rest of the team SNAP TOGETHER their automatic rifles

and prepare for a fight.

Animal and Audrey are checking out every corner of the

room.

Audrey climbs up onto a table and yanks out a grate

covering the air vent.

He rushes over to her and helps her climb up inside.

Jean-Claude sends Luc up ahead as they guard the

doorways. A loud THUMP is heard on the door they are

guarding. Each turns their weapon towards the doors.

Suddenly a portion of WALL BETWEEN THEM COLLAPSES.

A DOZEN BABYZILLAS leaping through the plaster. As they

spill out into the hall, Jean-Claude attempts to open

FIRE. One of the Babyzilla's is HIT.

His brothers ATTACK. Luc from the other side tries to

lay down cover fire but he's overrun by the herd.

Nick comes racing down the stairs and into the hallway.

Just then, he passes a locked door, BANGING on the other

side.

Just up ahead he can SEE the main lobby. But before he

can get there, a LOUD CRASH is heard as the locked door

in front of him SMASHES TO BITS as...

DOZENS OF BABYZILLAS

Flood into the main lobby only a few yards ahead. Nick

slams on the breaks and quietly tries to back away. He

turns to run the other directions when...

MORE BABYZILLA

Come BURSTING THROUGH the locked door behind him. Pinned

down with no way out. Nick SEES the elevator nearby and

races over, slamming his hand against the button.

The Babyzillas by the front door spot Nick. A couple of

them start to SNIFF THE AIR and start to move towards

him. Behind, the Babyzilla also catch the scent and

turn.

Just then the elevator doors open, Nick LEAPS inside.

Nick frantically pushes the CLOSE DOOR button but it's

painfully slow to react.

Just then the Babyzillas appear. They're just about to

move in when the doors finally CLOSE. Nick breaths a

sigh of relief just as a loud THUD is heard as one of

them SLAMS against the door. It's too late, the elevator

begins to rise.

Climbing upward, Animal reaches a plateau and crawls

into cross vent. He reaches back and grabs his camera.

Putting it down he turns back and helps Audrey up and

in.

Out of breath, she nods. Animal takes the lead again,

pushing his camera in front of him. He reaches another

vent that looks down. He's about to pull it free when

something catches his eye.

ANIMAL'S P.O.V. - THROUGH VENT - RAYMOND

Standing guard, automatic rife in hand, Raymond appears

with his back toward us. Animal lifts his camera to

shoot.

Animal doesn't answer, he just shoots.

The elevator doors open and Raymond SWERVES his gun

around ready to shoot. Frightened, Nick throws his hands

in the air.

Audrey has pushed her way up alongside of Animal to peer

down through the grating.

Nick keeps dialing the cell phone, still busy.

Just then the vents above COLLAPSES and Animal and

Audrey come tumbling down. In a flash, Raymond has his

weapon trained on their heads.

Raymond turns his gun towards the fallen video camera

and FIRES, ripping the camera apart.

Nick moves to Audrey's side, helping her up.

Just then a LOUD THUMP is heard against the near locked

door. The THUMPING gets louder and heavier.

The door BURSTS OPEN and TWENTY BABYZILLAS stampede into

the hallway. Audrey is fast on her feet.

She takes off running and they follow. The Babyzillas

give chase. Animal, hangs back and runs over to the

destroyed video camera and PULLS OUT THE TAPE. Just as

he does, the Babyzillas are nearly on top of him. He

dashes off.

ANGLE - END OF HALL - BACK DOOR

Audrey gets there first and opens the small doorway that

leads to a back stairwell, she ushers the rest inside.

She slams the door behind her as the Babyzillas appear

and begin to SNIFF the doorway.

They spill out into the hall and rush past all the

luxury boxes overlooking the auditorium.

The Babyzillas are gathered by the doorway SNIFFING. One

of the more aggressive ones starts to CLAW at the door,

RIPPING into it. Another charges it, THUD.

They rush up to a door marked BROADCAST BOOTH. Audrey

tries the door, it's locked. Animal charges his shoulder

into it, but it doesn't give.

Raymond gently moves Animal out of the way and SHOOTS

the lock to pieces. He opens the door for everyone to

enter.

They rush into the empty broadcast booth. Animal turns

on the lights as Audrey goes over and boots the computer

terminal. Raymond moves some equipment against the door,

securing it closed.

That stumps her. Animal gets an idea.

More of the creatures have gathered by the door. Two

more CHARGE and the door collapses. The Babyzillas rush

up the stairs.

Ed is watching the news feed. Caiman is on.

Suddenly Ed's computer begins to BEEP. Ed slides his

chair over and looks at his monitor. It reads

reads. Ed pick up transponder CFX 1 and watch the feed.

Ed makes a couple of adjustments on his controls and

turns on a blank monitor. He SEES...

C.U. MONITOR - AUDREY

Racing in front of the camera we SEE Audrey in the

control booth.

Nick turns on a small television and we still SEE Caiman

doing the news. Audrey turns to Animal.

Animal turns the camera and points out the window at the

BABYZILLA'S below.

Ed's eyes nearly pop out of his head.

Ed rushes over to the console and goes to work.

The mode is festive.  The Generals are preparing to leave

as is Major Hicks. Sergeant O'Neal and some of his men

are watching the t.v. news.

Everyone in the room begins to cheer. Suddenly Caiman's

image goes fuzzy. In a moment it's replaced by Audrey.

Nick SEES Audrey on the t.v. and gives her the thumbs

up.

Animal swerves the camera over to Nick. Raymond stays

back behind the camera, watching.

The creatures come bursting out of the stairwell and

flood into the hall. Sniffing around they pick up the

scent and take off.

A Soldier tugs on Major Hicks shoulder, try to get his

attention.

The Major turns around just in time to SEE Nick on the

t.v.

The camera SWERVES to SEE through the luxury booths

across from them, the dozens of Babyzillas approaching.

The bedroom is packed with Lucy's "guests" as they watch

the t.v., SEEING the Babyzillas.

On the screen the image turns to Nick.

Major Hicks is on the phone.

Raymond spots a large spool of co-axle cable. Quickly he

ties it to the support beam.

Everyone is breathless watching the news. Lucy beams.

Animal lowers the camera and everyone is silent.

The computer beeps, Animal reads the message.

Suddenly the room ROCKS as the Babyzillas begin crashing

against the blocked door. Raymond jumps to his feet.

With that he SPRAYS bullets into the front glass window

SHATTERING IT. Glass rains down below. Raymond tosses

the spool of cable out the broken window.

Animal dislodges one of the video cameras, hoists it on

his shoulder and moves over to join Raymond.

Several F-18's prepare to take flight. We focus on one,

an enormous bomb attached under its wing. The F-18 taxis

away from us.

Repelling down from the broken window of the broadcast

booth, Animal and Raymond land on the upper-level

balcony. Raymond signals to the others to follow.

Audrey and Nick are nervous as they stare at the long

drop down. The door is begging to give way from the

repeated THUMPING. Suddenly Audrey leans over and kisses

Nick.

With that she JUMPS out, repelling downward. Nick is

stunned by the unexpected kiss. Suddenly the door GIVES

and the Babyzilla FLOOD into the room. Nick jumps.

Audrey hits the ground followed by Nick. Raymond leads

as they make their way out.

On the other end of the room some Babyzilla appear in a

doorway and watch our friends scurry away. The

Babyzillas take off in hot pursuit.

The F-18's fly in formation. Their leader carrying the

same bomb we saw loaded earlier.

Raymond, guns in each hand, comes rushing into the

hallway. He SEES a small group of Babyzillas down the

hall and gestures for the group to go the other way.

Raymond backs away, guns trained on the Babyzillas who

SNIFF the air and decide to pursue. Raymond turns and

runs.

ANGLE - FARTHER DOWN HALLWAY - AROUND THE CORNER - SAME

As they tear forward they nearly run smack into a heard

of several dozen Babyzillas who are tearing the

concession stands to ribbons looking for food.

Spotted, the Babyzillas LEAP forward after the team.

Raymond spots the escalators across the hall.

We FOLLOW the squadron as they pass us to reveal the

beautiful MANHATTAN SKYLINE approaching.

The team races into the corridor. Animal reaches down

and hits the POWER button near the moving stairs. The

escalator comes to life.

The team runs down the "down" escalators as the

Babyzillas flood into the corridor. Some try to go down

the "up" escalator and fall all over themselves. Others

are spooked by the moving down escalator. Finally, the

brave ones begin to LEAP down the "down" escalator.

Racing out of the escalator corridor the team moves into

the main lobby and FREEZES. They are surrounded on all

sides by Babyzillas!

Like the scene in Hitcock's "The Birds" it is eerily

still as everyone freezes.

Closing over the city, the lead bomber breaks formation,

flying lower, closer to the rooftops.

Through the windshield's Heads-Up-Display (HUD) we SEE a

target LOCKING ON, flashing.

As several SNIFF THE AIR, they begin to CLOSE IN. The

Babyzillas from the escalator corridor finally get to

the ground level and rush over from behind.

Raymond spots the large hanging CHANDELIERS in the front

lobby. He FIRES a short BURST, SLICING the cable

supporting the chandelier.

The chandelier DROPS and SHATTERS in the center of the

main lobby. The Babyzillas scatter, opening a pathway to

the front door.

Raymond PUSHES the team forward as he takes the rear

through the pathway which begins to close up as they

pass through.

The Babyzillas recover and begin to charge. As Raymond

passes some CANDY MACHINES, he grabs one and SMASHES IT

to the ground.

Scatter all over the floor. As the Babyzillas run, they

begin to stumble allover each other, tripping on the

gum balls.

Animal is the first to reach the main door, he opens it

and Audrey and Nick are the first to exit. Raymond,

FIRING MADLY behind as he rushes for the door.

The locked FLASHES RED.

The immense BOMB drops and takes flight on its own. We

can see it's heading directly for MADISON SQUARE

GARDEN.

Raymond exits and Animal shuts the door behind him. The

Babyzillas SLAM against the doors. It takes all of

Animal's and Raymond's strength to hold the doors

closed.

Raymond slides his rifle barrel between the handles as a

temporary lock. He pulls Animal away and they take off

running.

BOMB'S P.O.V. - MADISON SQUARE - NIGHT

Rapidly approaching the famous forum.

ANGLE - RAYMOND, ANIMAL

Not far behind Nick and Audrey as they race from the

building. Behind them we SEE...

BOMB AND BUILDING

Collide and an ENORMOUS EXPLOSION ERUPTS, engulfing the

entire building in a mountain of flame.

Raymond, Animal, Audrey and Nick are THROWN several feet

forwards, toppling to the ground from the incredible

impact.

As the building CRUMBLES in FLAMES we HEAR several of

the Babyzillas SCREAMING. Soon they are silenced.

Slowly Nick sits up and turns to Audrey. They're both

shaken up. Nick touches her cheek gently.

She hugs him tightly. Nick smiles. Animal turns to

Raymond who has cut above his eye.

We begins to pull away from this tableau, slowly lifting

upwards when suddenly...

Is heard! Then, violently BURSTING up through the ashes,

a very angry

Bleeding from his injuries, Godzilla leans down and

nuzzles the burned out remains of his young. For the

first time in the film we can SEE a partial expression

of Godzilla's face; pain.

But quickly that pain turns to burning anger as he

focuses his hatred downwards, staring directly, and

accusingly, at our heroes.

And they do just as Godzilla POUNCES. Fortunately our

team DARTS around a corner just in time.

As our heroes come rushing around a corner, Godzilla

BURSTS THROUGH the building in front of them, sealing

off their exit. Raymond notices a very narrow alley.

ANGLE - ALLEY WAY

Raymond leads them through this slim alley between to

large brick buildings. They run for their lives as

Godzilla appears behind them.

His claws are too big to reach into the alley so he

BULLDOZES his way into it, the building ripping apart as

he marches forward.

Bricks go FLYING as debris showers down on our team just

they make their way to the other side.

Slowed down by the the position of the alley, Godzilla

SWINGS his arms violently to clear a path.

Racing from the alley Raymond races over to a parked

YELLOW CAB.

In one deft move, Raymond draws a screwdriver out of his

belt, pops the ignition device off the steering column

and hot wires the car in under 15 seconds. It's

amazing.

As he does this the others pile into the car. Not even

completely all in, Raymond takes off as soon as the

engine turns over. Animal nearly falls out.

Just as GODZILLA bursts out from between the buildings

the CAB DARTS away, squealing around the next corner.

Power sliding around the wet street corner, the Yellow

Cab FISHTAILS onto 8th Ave. Whipping around the corner

behind them Godzilla appears.

As he's MUCH faster, he nearly overtakes the car in a

single LEAP but the cab SWERVES AGAIN moving down

another street.

The cab darts onto 27th street. DEBRIS tumbles down in

their path as GODZILLA SMASHES through another

building.

The rear window SHATTERS as falling bricks and debris

HIT THE CAR. Again, the Cab darts down a small side

street.

Using this small cut-across, the cab quickly exits out

onto the next main street (28th). Godzilla rushes down

the side street, his TAIL shattering buildings as he

does.

Animal fumbles with his camera trying to get it to power

up. The light goes ON and Animal quickly holsters it and

begins filming out the shattered back window.

LEAPING forward, Godzilla BITES down, SNAPPING at the cab

as it SWERVES just out of danger, gunning it.

Through the rear window we SEE Godzilla SNAPPING down

trying to take a bite. The cab, again, SWERVES wildly,

darting down a side street.

Taking her advice, Raymond swerves up 8th Ave. uptown.

He GUNS IT and RACES up ahead.

The last two turns of the cab have temporarily

disoriented Godzilla who looks around to find the cab.

He moves up a block and begins to look around.

GODZILLA'S P.O.V. - CAB - SAME - NIGHT

Several blocks ahead, Godzilla spots the cab. He narrows

his eyes and WAILS ANGRILY. Suddenly he BOLTS after the

cab.

Animal clears away the broken glass and leans out the

back window.

ANIMAL'S P.O.V. THROUGH WINDOW - GODZILLA

Gaining on them GODZILLA is in hot pursuit.

The military is cleaning up the trap from before.

Sergeant O'Neal SPINS as the cab LEAPS out from behind

the trees.

The cab POWER SLIDES right past and out of the Meadow

again just as GODZILLA STOMPS directly into the clean up

crew. Soldiers DIVE for cover as others scramble out of

the way.

Godzilla MARCHES after the cab, his tail SWIPING several

vehicles which tumble, crashing into the troops.

In a flash, Godzilla disappears back into the forest on

the other side. O'Neal grabs his radio.

Major Hicks moves over towards the radios.

The cab heads up the deserted streets, racing full

tilt.

Animal pulls himself back into his seat.

Wrong again! Leaping out several blocks ahead, GODZILLA

emerges. He KNEELS DOWN and gives a gigantic POWER BLAST

of his BREATH.

Cars, street signs, vending machines SAIL BACKWARDS from

the force.

A Newspaper vending machine SLAMS into the hood of the

cab as the cab SQUEALS around a corner, avoiding the

rest of the onslaught of debris.

The F-18's BANK and head back towards Manhattan.

Racing up through the streets of Harlem we SEE the cab.

Everyone is looking around for the creature.

Suddenly from behind, Animal spots the creature several

blocks behind. Again, he lifts the camera.

ANIMAL'S P.O.V. - GODZILLA

Running full boar directly at them.

Godzilla quickly makes up ground. Running at the cab

it's only a matter of seconds before he'll reach them.

Raymond looks up, spots something.

RAYMOND'S P.O.V. - SIGN

Up ahead is a sign for the exit for the George

Washington Bridge. Raymond decides to take it.

The cab SWERVES heading towards the bridge entrance just

as Godzilla BITES DOWN, barely missing the cab as it

turns the corner.

Godzilla LEAPS OVER THE ENTIRE BLOCK, landing directly

IN FRONT OF THE CAB.

The cab SPINS, pulling a full 180 degree turn, and PEELS

OUT just before Godzilla can SNAP DOWN again, just

missing the cab.

The cab PEELS around the creature and UP THE ONRAMP.

Just then Godzilla LEAPS AFTER THEM. His jaw open, he

Everyone ducks as the enormous JAWS OF THE CREATURE

CLAMP DOWN OVER THE CAB.

Taking a gigantic BITE out of the highway, some high

tension wires and the support structure over the bridge,

Godzilla CHOMPS DOWN on the cab.

The large cement SIGN SLAMS into the roof of the

creature's mouth, preventing him from crushing the cab

with his teeth.

The sign supports will not hold much longer as it

crumbles just above the cab. The torn electric cables

DANGLING dangerous close to the cab.

Godzilla PUSHES his TONGUE towards the back of the car,

trying to draw it into his throat!

They're freaking out as the jaws are closing in on

them.

C.U. CAB'S WHEELS

Spinning in vain against the gigantic tongue that pushes

against it, LIFTING the REAR of the vehicle.

Like a dog with a bone, Godzilla SHAKES his head trying

to rip the rest of the highway free. The portion of

highway in front of the cab TEARS FREE, lifting.

From the cab we SEE the horizon LIFT as the road begins

to give way. The sign above CRUMBLING FURTHER.

Nick turns and SEES...

ELECTRIC CABLES - SPARKS

Sparking as they hit against the supports of the sign,

Nicks sees the cables dangling close to the cab. He

takes off his jacket, wraps it around his hand and opens

the cab door.

Grabbing the cable with his wrapped hand, he JAMS THE

CABLE DOWN into Godzilla's TONGUE. SPARKS FLY! Nick

leans back inside, slamming the door shut.

He temporarily opens his mouth wider with a scream just

before he is about to SLAM his jaws shut again...

C.U. TIRES - SUDDENLY CATCHING

As the tongue momentarily retreats from the SHOCK, the

wheels CATCH and the CAB LURCHES FORWARD.

As the sign CRUMBLES and the JAWS CRUSH DOWN, the cab

SAILS OUT OF HIS MOUTH as the beast SWALLOWS the piece

of highway.

Landing, hard, onto the pavement, the cab PEELS OUT,

burning rubber as it enters the George Washington

Bridge.

Godzilla SWALLOWS only to realize he didn't get them.

Seeing the cab on the bridge Godzilla gives chase.

The cab races towards us when Godzilla STEPS ONTO THE

BRIDGE. His enormous weight makes the entire bridge

WOBBLE.

The Cab goes airborne then bottoms out as it returns to

the asphalt as the bridge undulates beneath them. It's

as though they were driving during an earthquake.

With each stride Godzilla takes, the bridge becomes more

unstable.

Swooping down the F-18's head directly towards the

bridge. We see Godzilla about to overtake the Cab.

The HUD begins to FLASH, LOCKED ON!

Only a stride away from being overtaken.

ANGLE - F-18 SQUADRON

All at once they FIRE. Missiles heading right at

camera.

GODZILLA

opens his mighty jaw about to CLAMP DOWN on them.

The missiles CONNECT, SLAMMING INTO HIS CHEST,

EXPLODING. His torso, rips apart. He SCREAMS OUT. His

WAIL a painful death cry.

His foot STOMPS DOWN as he tries to retain balance. The

impact of the stomp acts like a shockwave that KNOCKS

the Cab into a SPIN.

SLAMMING into the guard rail, the cab bounces back into

the road and keeps going.

The injured Godzilla bites the bullet and continues

pursuing, his gait slowing. The cab is able to make some

distance.

ANGLE - F-18 SQUADRON

Again they FIRE. A group of missiles darting out.

GODZILLA

The missiles HIT, ripping into him. Again GODZILLA

SCREAMS out, his forward motion stopped.

Where the blockade and angry mob still wait and watch in

horror. The Cab SLIDES INTO A SPIN as it comes to a stop

just in front of the crowd.

Nick jumps out first, staring back at Godzilla. Audrey

comes up from behind.

NICK'S P.O.V. - GODZILLA

His eyes rolling back into his head as he SCREAMS OUT.

Slowly he TUMBLES.

ANGLE - BRIDGE

Godzilla's enormous head comes CRASHING DOWN in front of

us. The tremendous impact sends TREMORS across the

bridge.

The gathered crowd is ROCKED from the impact of the

toppled Godzilla.

GODZILLA

His last breath escaping. Defeated and weary, his eyes

blink slowly as we watch his life slip away.

NICK AND AUDREY

Oddly, Nick stares sympathetically at Godzilla's sad and

lifeless face.

The stunned silence melts away as the mob behind them

begins to applaud nervously, then vigorously. The mob

breaks through the blockade and rushes over to our

heroes, surrounding them. Cheering enthusiastically.

The room is going berserk, everyone slapping hands. Lucy

turns and gives a "high-five" to everyone around her.

Cameras flash like mad. Several news crews fight their

way through the crowd.

Nick winks at Audrey. Caiman pushes his way through the

crowd of reporters over to her.

Audrey waves goodbye as Animal walks over, checking his

camera and his coat pocket.

They look around, but he's gone. Nowhere to be seen.

A phone begins to RING. Nick checks his pockets and finds

Raymond's cellular phone. Nick answers.

Raymond watches the mob scene from a distance.

NICK AND AUDREY

Nick nods to Audrey that it's Raymond.

Off Audrey's confused expressions we PULL BACK, farther

and farther. We see the mob, the military, the command

tents and finally we pull back far enough to reveal

Godzilla's mighty head laying on the end of the bridge.

We FLOAT through the demolished station almost as though

we were a moving point of view. We travel thorough the

debris of the station into one of the tunnels.

We travel deeper and deeper into the distance. A shaft

of light up ahead. We move closer to it.

As we get nearer we realize it's one of Godzilla's

gigantic EGGS. WE move closer and closer to the solitary

egg. Just as we are about to collide with it.

