BLACK.

SILENCE.

SILENCE.

SILENCE.

SILENCE.

OUTER SPACE, 600 KILOMETERS ABOVE-

PLANET EARTH.

Like all images of Earth seen from space, this image of our

planet is mythical and majestic.

The globe seems almost tangible, slowly spinning, floating in

the endless void of space. It is a blue planet, and bright white

clouds twirl and stretch in capricious patterns across the deep

blue of the oceans and the jigsaw of continents: green, yellow

and brown.

It is noon in Cape Town and early night in India.

The sphere is almost a perfect orb except for the darkened

sliver on its Eastern edge.

It is beautiful! And so full of life.

But not here.

Here it is completely silent.

IN THE DISTANCE-

A small metal object crosses the empty space surrounding Earth.

If it appears to be a small satellite that is only because it is

far away from us. It is the size of one football field. It is-

The INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION (ISS).

It resembles a dragonfly. Its solar panels stretch out, like

wings, from the long body made of connected pressurized modules.

It floats with a sense of proud achievement.

It orbits at an altitude of 500 km above sea level. It moves at

an average of 27,700 kilometers per hour, completing 15.7 laps

around the Earth per day.

It is cruising over Zimbabwe. To the East, the island of

Madagascar. Up to the North, the expansive dry lands of Somalia

and Ethiopia.

Soon, the ISS curves around the spherical planet, and it becomes

smaller, almost indistinguishable, no more than a small bright

spec grazing over the blue atmosphere.

CLOSER TO US-

Orbiting at an altitude of 600 km-

The EXPLORER SPACE SHUTTLE becomes visible.

This icon of space exploration has played a key role in all of

NASA's missions since the late 90's.

Faintly we hear static, voices murmuring over radio frequences.

As the babble bulds we might hear one conversation amongst the

A fizz of static and then the voice continues with sudden,

starling clarity.

An ASTRONAUT - MATT KOWALSKI - floats thirty meters away from

the Shuttle wearing a bulky white space suit and a full, bubble-

like helmet.

Matt smiles, checks the monitors of the sleek device strapped to

his back.

Matt grins, fiddles with a control and propels himself away from

the Shuttle.

Stationed around the telescope are TWO ASTRONAUTS carrying out a

repair mission. They are also wearing space suits but unlike

Matt, they are not wearing Manned Maneuvering Units. SAFETY

TETHERS are the only things stopping them from floating away

into space.

SHARIFF DASARI is an Indian engineer in his mid-thirties. He is

attached with tethers to a platform on one side of the Hubble.

This is his second mission into outer space.

Shariff cheers and begins singing a pop tune in Hindi, bursting

into a Zero-G Bollywood choreography that is repressed by the

stiffness of his space suit.

Matt is now approaching the Explorer, skillfully maneuvering his

thrusters.

The other astronaut stands perched on a ROBOTIC ARM attached to

the Shuttle. The arm is a crane-like moving platform remotely

operated from inside the Shuttle.

We TRACK In on the astronaut as she works intently alone.

Ryan HUMS as she jiggles the CARD.

RYAN STONE is a medical engineer, specialized in hospital

scanning systems. She's focused on her work as though she's all

alone in the world. This is her first mission.

Ryan eyes the Card, then...

Ryan eyes the Card, then...

Matt toggles a switch and the music stops.

Ryan moves the Card around.

Again, as if to herself-

She starts to disengage one of the panels.

Ryan takes out a card from under the plate and begins to examine

it. Matt begins to approach her.

Without losing any time, Ryan puts the card back into the

Matt begins a wide loop around the telescope.

Ryan doesn't respond, continuing to work. Matt closes in as he

circles the telescope.

Matt hesitates ever-so-briefly, then...

Ryan begins unbolting. Matt lands right next to Ryan and grabs

onto the telescope. She is frustrated, determined.

Matt takes out his pistol grip, and with fast precision puts its

head to a bolt and begins unscrewing. Matt removes the bolt

with confidence.

Ryan is not as precise with her pistol grip, and when a bolt

She DROPS IT.

The bolt spins floating away. She tries to grab it but MISSES,

barely touching it but brushing it just enough to give it a push

that makes it change direction....

She turns and reaches out to grab it, but she is strapped to the

Robotic Arm.

The bolt spins out into the emptiness of space when-

A hand GRABS it before it has gone too far. It is Matt's.

Ryan looks at him, embarrassed.

Matt puts the bolt away. He begins to unscrew another bolt.

Ryan glances at Matt.

The robotic arm moves very slowly, pulling Ryan along while Matt

begins to unharness from the telescope to shift his position.

She grins at the memory, glances at him. Confesses:

She gives him a look.

Matt stares at her, a faint smile on his face.

She grins, looks away -- he got her. Then...

Matt turns. Shariff raises his arms again.

Shariff JUMPS and FLOATS AWAY from the Shuttle, screaming and

flapping his arms. A long SAFETY TETHER attached to his waist

Brings Shariff to an ABRUPT STOP, snapping him back like a

bungee cord.

Ryan doesn't react to this, too consumed as she is with the

panel. Matt looks out. A sad smile is on his face.

MATT ENJOYS THE VIEW

THE EARTH, with its ever-changing surface of blues and whites,

greens and browns, is massive and serene below him.

She hesitates -- trying sincerely to articulate her feelings as

we GAZE down at the silent planet below.

Matt laughs softly.

We arrive back on him as he turns back to look at Earth.

Something flickers briefly in Matt's eyes-- something

Ryan inspects a panel inside the telescope, studying it with a

small mirror.

Ryan takes out the small mirror and Matt stretches his arm,

offering assistance, but-

She does not want any help and puts the mirror away in her

toolbox, leaving Matt with his arm outstretched.

Ryan starts looking for another tool, but Matt is one move ahead

of her, offering her a pair of tweezers.

Ryan hesitates and takes the tool. She starts working on the

panel.

He waits, letting the moment hang knowingly. Then:

Ryan rolls her eyes and mumbles to herself-

Matt continues his story without missing a beat-

Mission Control interrupts on the radio.

Ryan inserts the plate into the Hubble.

All the astronauts stop what they're doing and anxiously await

further instructions, except for Ryan who keeps working.

Matt is immediately flung into action and rapidly unharnesses

himself from the Hubble.

Ryan is working on the panel.

She keeps on furiously tweaking.

She looks up, sees Matt glaring. Looks him in the eye.

The ROBOTIC ARM slowly withdraws, carrying Ryan back towards the

Shuttle.

Matt watches her go, then:

Shariff turns and heads toward the base of the telescope holding

onto the hangar's handrails.

Matt PROPELS himself to the base of the Hubble using the

propelling unit on his back.

Shariff arrives to the base of the telescope.

Matt grabs onto the base of the telescope-

The locks attaching the Hubble to the Explorer release. Matt and

Shariff give the Hubble a push away from the hangar. Pushing the

huge telescope is not a difficult task in zero gravity.

As it floats away, Matt gives the telescope a small spin.

Matt eyes the arm as it slowly retracts, carrying Ryan back.

Matt's eyes shift, watching a LARGE OBJECT, a piece of a BSE

SATELLITE, spiral toward them.

The sat glides by at tremendous speed.

ANOTHER OBJECT, part of a WEATHER SATELLITE, hurls by them, a

little bit closer than the previous one.

It is followed by a SMALL PIECE OF DEBRIS. It zooms by faster

than the previous ones and hits the BSE SATELLITE.

The satellite EXPLODES into hundreds of pieces and-

A CHAIN REACTION takes place.

The DEBRIS from the BSE satellite hits the WEATHER SATELLITE,

and it EXPLODES, sending debris in all directions.

A high frequency of interference and-

THE COMMUNICATION IS LOST.

THE ARM transporting Ryan is moving very slowly.

Matt thrusts himself over to Ryan.

But there's no answer.

Still no answer.

Matt stops next to Ryan.

She reaches for the last clip and begins to undo it.

Shariff makes his way back toward the airlock as-

A PIECE of the debris HITS the Hubble's SOLAR PANELS, making a

12-inch HOLE in its golden surface.

A piece of debris passes, nearly hitting them.

Further back, another piece of debris collides with a bigger

one. The two chunks of debris explode into a million pieces of

shrapnel, one of which-

HITS Shariff's helmet, breaking through the glass and hitting

his head like an expansive bullet.

Matt PROPELS himself toward Shariff, who is floating away from

the Shuttle unconscious.

AN IMPACT.

A piece of debris pierces through the right wing of the Space

Shuttle, creating a five-foot hole.

THE SPACE SHUTTLE ROLLS.

The arm, with Ryan attached to it, rolls with the Shuttle.

Another IMPACT.

A piece of debris HITS the robotic arm like a cannon ball and

DETACHES it from the Shuttle.

The broken piece of the arm SPINS AWAY from the Explorer at a

great speed with Ryan attached to it. She passes next to-

THE HUBBLE as a big piece of debris hits the telescope. The top

of the cylinder explodes into more debris, which is expelled in

all directions, barely missing Ryan as she spins away attached

to the arm.

ON THE ARM-

Ryan's panic grows as she spins further into the nothingness of

space.

With every spin, the shuttle, being punished by debris,

diminishes into a tiny dot in the distance.

The robotic arm keeps on spinning and stars orbit wildly in her

field of vision.

Ryan's hands are trembling and she can't get a grip on the hook.

As Matt's VOICE is LOST to STATIC, Ryan squeezes the hook and

is...

...gone, kicking herself AWAY from the robotic arm and FLYING

FREE of the rotating arm. She catches a brief glimpse of the arm

as it helicopters away, then loses sight of it as she rotates

end over end in endless free fall.

A PRIMAL SCREAM of God forsaken fear erupts from her lungs.

The RADIO CRACKLES and Matt's VOICE returns.

Ryan slowly spins, drifting into the empty darkness of space.

Tumbling end over end, Ryan fixes her gaze on her wrist. The

effort makes her nauseous. She looks away.

Matt's faint voice is heard on the transmission under a lot of

static. Ryan is panicking and begins to hyperventilate. Her eyes

rake the dark sameness of her surroundings.

As Matt's signal grows fainter her breathing becomes more

labored.

Ryan's eyes flutter, then roll up into her sockets...

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan swallows harshly, her throat suddenly dry.

She inhales and exhales with quick short breaths-

AHHHH... OHHHH

AHHHH... OHHHH

Ryan's eyes are wide open and desperate as her breathing

accelerates.

AHH... OHH... AHH... OHH

AHH... OHH... AHH... OHH

Her limbs look fragile against the black and incalculable void.

AHH... OHH... AHH... OHH

She inhales.

AHH...

And her throat closes.

HH...

Her mouth is open, but she cannot exhale.

Not a breath.

Ryan's choking. The lack of oxygen is making her veins pop out

and her lips turn blue.

Her eyes open wide, and-

She exhales.

OHH...

And begins breathing deeply.

AHHHHHH... OHHHHHH....

As her breathing steadies, she begins to focus, her eyes

searching the distance.

THROUGH THE HELMET-

Ryan can see her face reflected against the visor, lit by the

control panels.

She dims the light and she can see-

Her legs and arms floating against endless space as she drifts

towards the empty void, broken only by lonesome stars whose

position change as she rotates, giving way to-

THE EARTH,

Very still and very distant. Night is creeping across the sphere

as the sun sets, a sliver of light on the Western Hemisphere.

A metallic object floating over the Earth is hit by a RAY of the

sinking sun, and it gleams like a tiny star. Her eyes blink in

recognition, gleaming with alertness.

Her intellect engages and she gains a new sense of calm.

Her eyes scan the enveloping darkness, trying to get a fix on

the gleaming orb that is earth, her face alive with

concentration as she makes calculations.

She frowns as she tumbles backward again, recalculating.

The sun is slipping behind the Earth. She studies the rim of

fire until it too slides from view.

The sun's glow illuminates another object in the distance, a

bright spec hovering over the horizon- the INTERNATIONAL SPACE

STATION.

Just then, the sun's rays recede and the Station DIMS, becoming

one with the darkness. Ryan blinks, mildly alarmed.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Silence.

Silence.

Slowly, the sun recedes further behind the earth and the light

bathing Ryan's face evaporates. As she is swallowed by the

darkness, she speaks once again:

THE WHOLE FACE OF THE EARTH IS IN SHADOW.

And so is Ryan. Her eyes dart. It is utterly silent. She spins

in the darkness, waiting.

There is only the silence, complete and absolute.

Nothing. She watches the earth slip from view yet again.

When next she speaks, the words are as delicate as snowflakes,

tripping off her tongue like a prayer...

A soothing light hits Ryan's face.

THE MOON is rising over the Pacific Ocean.

It's almost full and its soft cool light pours over the globe,

brightening the deep blue waters and-

IN THE DISTANCE -

A LIGHT, not bigger than a star, is FLICKERING.

Ryan's eyes focus on the light. Her PUPILS DILATE. Something

like tears glistens as she stares at the flickering light,

afraid to blink as she watches the...

...star draw closer, smiling as the faintest thread of a radio

transmission stitches its way through the silence, listening as

STATIC SINGS through her helmet, stinging her ears with the

sound of...

Her name.

The flickering star begins to thicken...

As she watches the figure of an astronaut takes shape.

Ryan opens a pouch in her suit, fishes out a FLASHLIGHT. Hands

trembling she shines it toward the approaching dot.

Ryan can see Matt quickly growing in size. She continues to

FLASH HER LIGHT.

She slips the light back into her side pouch just as Matt

appears as if from nowhere and GRABS HER.

Ryan holds on to Matt. Instantly, they begin to spin together.

Matt takes out a tether.

Ryan is paralyzed, holding onto Matt tightly and looking at him

in fright. He stares back.

Matt grins.

He runs the other end of the tether to the harness on Ryan's

suit and attaches it.

Matt places his hand on her breastplate and gives her a gentle

nudge. Drifting again she begins to freak.

The tether tenses and she stops nine feet away from Matt.

Matt ignites the thrusters, tugging Ryan behind him. But this

proves a difficult endeavor as her momentum drags him, changing

his direction.

Matt ignites a new thrust to re-direct his position. As he does

so Ryan's change of momentum makes him swing again.

Using his thrusters, Matt negotiates a new position and,

igniting a long thrust, he jets away.

Ryan cannot repress the anger boiling up, and SHE SCREAMS-

As Matt accelerates toward a lower orbit, his momentum takes

over, steadying Ryan's swing.

They descend, gliding through pieces of debris. Among the space

junk, a Solar Panel from the Hubble is distinguished.

Matt eyes a small dot in the distance: the Shuttle.

Matt reaches for a digital watch strapped to his wrist and sets

up the timer for- 90 MINUTES.

Ryan sets her watch, studies the counter as it begins to count

down.

As they travel, the Shuttle begins to take form.

Silence.

Silence.

Matt changes direction and approaches Shariff. He has to ignite

several small thrusts to try and steady his direction, fighting

against Ryan's momentum.

Shariff's body is tethered to a PANEL that was ripped away from

the Explorer. Matt approaches the panel and ignites the

thrusters to slow down his course, and-

He grabs onto it. Ryan, continuing her momentum, crashes against

Shariff's body. The contact slows her trajectory, but it throws

Shariff away, his tether tensing, pulling the panel with him.

Matt, holding on to the metal, spins with it. He detaches

Shariff's tether from the panel and attaches it to himself.

He lets the panel go and immediately ignites his thruster,

pulling the two tethers behind him which, as they tense, bring

Ryan and Shariff closer together.

Matt tries to ignite a very long thrust in the direction of the

Shuttle, but this is difficult as the momentum of the other two

bodies pulls him in all directions.

Tentatively Ryan extends her right hand to grab onto Shariff's

body harness. And she sees-

Shariff's broken helmet. A hole the size of a soft ball pierces

through it and has left a tunnel of frozen dried bloody mess.

Ryan's face is inscrutable. Finally she looks away, but this

time something arrests her gaze:

A LAMINATED PHOTOGRAPH floats next to Shariff, tethered to his

suit via a small chain. In it, a YOUNG BOY LAUGHS with abandon,

happy in the embrace of a man unseen save for his TWO STRONG

ARMS. Transfixed, Ryan is unable to look away, something

complicated confusing her eyes.

The photograph floats in the empty space above Planet Earth.

OUTER SPACE.

As they approach, the damage to the Shuttle becomes apparent.

Explorer has been badly hit.

The Shuttle has suffered devastating damage. The tail is beyond

repair, one wing is completely destroyed, while the other

waffles weakly, nearly sheared from the fuselage.

Matt thrusts to slow down his trajectory and slowly bumps

against the windshield of the COCKPIT.

At the mercy of Matt's momentum, Ryan hits hard against the nose

of the Shuttle, losing her grip on Shariff.

As she caroms off, she grabs onto what is left of the cockpit's

window.

Matt takes his flashlight and looks through the broken windows,

lighting the cockpit.

Ryan pulls herself up and looks-

THROUGH THE WINDOW-

The cabin has been destroyed. A disarray of objects, smashed and

devastated.

At the end of the cabin, among the floating objects, a lifeless

body drifts among the wreckage. Ryan regards it silently,

mesmerized.

BANG.

The face of a second astronaut appears right in front of Ryan

and crashes against her visor.

The eyes are frozen, unblinking. Ryan GASPS, wheeling backward

and away.

Matt clicks Shariff's harness onto the Shuttle.

Matt turns to Ryan, who is staring at the dead astronauts

inside.

He begins to reach out, hesitates briefly, then lightly touches

her shoulder.

She turns, no elbows this time.

Matt gestures vaguely to a bright dot in distance.

She stares at the dot.

She studies his face and then, finally, nods.

He gently pushes her into space. She slowly drifts away from the

Explorer but is suddenly stopped by the safety tether.

Matt ignites his propellers and, giving a couple of small

thrusts, he combats Ryan's swing. And with a LONGER THRUST-

He shoots forward, pulling Ryan behind him.

The two astronauts push forward together, leaving behind the

shell of the Shuttle and the remains of the Hubble.

They are heading toward a small point in the distance, the Space

Station, which is in a lower orbit.

OUTER SPACE. 550 KM ABOVE EARTH.

We see the two astronauts crossing the distance - a thrust, and

they coast ahead, and then another thrust. Matt pulls Ryan

behind him.

Two specks glide across the dark sky as a sliver of light grows

on the darkened hemisphere.

THE SUN IS RISING.

WATCHING THE SUNRISE

THE SUN looks brighter and clearer than ever outside of Earth's

atmosphere. The oceans and the continents brighten as its light

spills over the Earth beneath them.

Warm rays of sun caress the two astronauts as they propel

themselves across the empty expanse.

But Ryan is not into the view right now. She's stricken with

fear. Her jaw is clenched and her eyes are almost closed.

Matt looks at the dark emptiness that engulfs him and smiles.

Ryan keeps her eyes closed, doesn't answer. Matt, trying to

Ryan opens her eyes, but still she doesn't dare to look out of

the helmet.

Ryan tries to overcome her fear and looks out. She frowns,

terrified by the sight, and hides her face once more inside the

helmet.

She tries again. This time she forces herself and stares out at

the Earth, which is over 500 kilometers below her.

Ryan's wide open eyes are transfixed on Earth, like a deer in

headlights.

Her glassy eyes reveal a strong emotion growing inside of her,

taking over her body. It is not fear, it is something deeper and

more painful.

Matt studies her curiously.

Ryan looks at the Earth. It never felt so far away.

A long silence without an answer.

She frowns, unable to comprehend this initially, as if it were a

particularly complicated bit of math, then shakes her head.

Ryan closes her eyes. She remains silent. A silence that can't

hide an unspeakable pain.

Her eyes flutter, then open. She is frozen in this moment, as if

stunned.

Her gaze shifts and finds-

Matt, studying her in his MIRROR.

She looks away, toward Earth. It looks small. Remote.

Matt finally averts his eyes. He rolls his wrist over, consults

the timer, watching the numbers slowly count down.

SUDDENLY, COMING FROM INSIDE RYAN'S HELMET-

BEEP. BEEP. BEEP.

She nods.

Matt gives Ryan a gentle push, waiting until the tether goes

taut, and-

He gives a SMALL THRUST to position himself in the right

direction.

He holds this SINGLE THRUST for longer than all of the previous

ones, immediately gaining speed, descending towards-

THE SPACE STATION-

Which is half a mile away, and now all of its modules are

clearly visible. It also becomes clear that-

IT WAS HIT BY THE DEBRIS.

The surface of a module is badly scratched and some solar panels

have been ripped.

THE SECOND SOYUZ becomes visible, attached to the Station's

Docking Module. A piece of red and white fabric floats around

the spherical capsule.

Ryan's losing her breath.

They approach the Space Station, which is just ahead of them and

a hundred meters below.

She's sweating and starts to hyperventilate.

She looks down, eyes the Station passing beneath them.

It looks as though the Station is going to slip away altogether.

Matt triggers his THRUSTER, turning sharply. Ryan's trajectory

carries her in a straight line, until the tether tenses,

breaking Matt's direction.

He fires again to counter her momentum.

A VERY LONG THRUST sends both of them in the right direction,

straight down toward the Station, but at great speed.

The Station is getting very close, and they're going very fast.

Matt ignites the FRONTAL THRUSTER, which begins to slow him

down, but the thrust stops.

Ryan, following her own momentum, begins to pass Matt.

Just then Ryan CRASHES against the SOLAR PANEL, but is unable to

grab hold. As she tumbles past, the body of the Station looms.

Matt misses the solar panels, and COLLIDES against the Station.

As he begins to drift past, he reaches out and snares a railing.

Ryan passes flying above him. The tether tenses, pulling Matt.

The momentum is to great and he LETS GO of the railing.

Ryan floats over the roof of the Space Station, trying to grab

hold of the handles and rods that stick out of the modules, but

she's floating too high.

She's quickly reaching the end of the Station, there is only one

handle left ahead, her last chance before floating away into the

black void.

She extends her arm and GRABS the handle tightly for dear life

SHE STOPS.

She's holding onto the handle.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She looks up and sees-

Matt is floating straight toward her and-

He COLLIDES against her. For a moment they are face to face,

only the glass of their headgear separates their faces.

But she loses her grip on the handle and the impact projects her

into the emptiness.

Her drifting is intercepted by a Solar Panel. She crashes

against it, shattering it, as Matt rolls above it.

Ryan bounces down towards the Earth, tensing the tether, pulling

Matt, making him descend over the other side of the panel.

The sharp edges of the broken panels cut the tether in two.

Ryan is drifting away from the Station. She sees the infinite

black void ahead of her and-

HER FOOT GETS STUCK IN THE PARACHUTE.

It becomes tangled in the strings and fabric, slowing her down.

Ryan is panting, her face covered in sweat. She turns back and

Matt rolling, drifting in her direction.

She stretches out her arm.

Matt's arm is also outstretched.

He's trying to make light of it, but he's really struggling to

reach her.

Ryan stretches farther.

Matt's hand comes closer to hers.

The tips of their fingers are almost touching.

The very tips of their fingers touch --

BUT THEY MISS.

As Matt drifts past.

As the parachute tenses, she STOPS.

The tether attached to Matt's suit passes two feet away from her

Ryan grabs the tether. It slides through her closed fist, until-

Her grip tightens and the tether STOPS.

Matt's momentum is now pulling Ryan, dragging her loose from the

parachute.

Her leg slides through the loose rope and she floats further

out, being snagged at the last minute by a tether around her

foot. (We move from high-angle to low angle two shot). As this

Matt begins to unharness the tether.

Matt has unhooked the tether and is holding it in his hand.

He opens his hand, letting go of the tether, and BEGINS TO FLOAT

AWAY.

Relieved of Matt's pull, the parachute begins to retrieve,

pulling Ryan closer to the Station.

Matt drifts away from the Station into the empty space.

Ryan bumps against the station, pulled by the parachute, and she

twists and turns before finally grabbing hold of a rail.

An ALARM GOES OFF.

She turns, looking for the Station's Airlock.

Her eyes flutter...

Ryan blinks, TURNS OFF the ALARM, and begins climbing over a

module of the Station.

The transmission becomes weaker, filled with STATIC.

She nods, already looking.

Ryan is struggling for breath.

Ryan stares at Matt's tiny figure in the distance.

Ryan continues to the Airlock.

She looks at Matt's figure receding.

Ryan starts to respond, then falters, watching Matt's figure

grow ever smaller.

THE SAD CROONING of HANK WILLIAMS crackles through the dying

radio.

Only static hisses...

Static again as Matt falls deeper into the distance, becoming

lost in a sea of white specks and-

The transmission ends.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan is dizzy, sweating, and having trouble focusing. She sees

Nothing more than a dot.

She stretches her hand toward him, as if trying to touch him

with the tips of her fingers. But the dot has already vanished

into never-ending darkness.

EVERYTHING IS BLURRED.

Ryan is about to lose consciousness, when-

A new ALARM GOES OFF.

She takes one deep breath as she opens her eyes widely.

If she doesn't move, she'll die.

Ryan pulls herself forward, reaching for a handle on the Soyuz.

She grabs it and reaches for another, climbing her way toward

the Station's airlock.

But she's losing focus.

As her right hand is reaching for a handle, everything becomes a

blur, and she misses.

INSIDE THE HELMET -

Her brain is shutting down from lack of oxygen. She struggles to

open her eyes and mumbles words that are unintelligible.

She reaches up again, almost blindly. Her hand grips the handle,

and with one huge effort-

She sprints across the Docking Module, swinging from handle to

handle, in one continual push, until she reaches the-

AIRLOCK.

She stops, takes one deep breath and-

She turns the latch and OPENS the re-entry hatch.

The hatch BLOWS OPEN as the air inside the cabin escapes into

the vacuum, almost throwing Ryan back into space, but she holds

tightly onto the latch.

She hangs outside, trying to gasp the last breath of oxygen

inside her life system. She sees her feet dangling against the

emptiness of space and-

With one last effort, she pulls herself into the airlock.

AIRLOCK MODULE. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION. 500 KM ABOVE EARTH.

As she enters she does a 180-degree flip. As soon as her legs

are in, she grabs onto the latch, and-

CLOSES THE HATCH.

She turns the latch and-

THE CABIN IS SEALED OFF.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan is suffocating. With very little oxygen and her body

intoxicated by the nitrogen in her blood, her breathing is

coarse and painful.

She can hardly keep her eyes open, and she pushes herself

through the cabin, an empty cylinder lit by two circular mercury

lights. She reaches the-

CONTROL PANEL, a small computer with a screen that monitors the

atmospheric and temperature levels inside the airlock.

She presses a button on the panel and-

THE CABIN BEGINS TO PRESSURIZE.

A low hissing sound can be heard as the tanks in the Station

begin pumping pure oxygen into the airlock. The control panel's

monitor shows the atmospheric levels slowly rising.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan gasps for air, but there is none.

She stares at the red-orange-green graph on the control panel

showing the atmospheric levels. It reads red. Her pupils begin

to dilate as-

SOUND BEGINS TO SURFACE-

In the vacuum of space there was nothing to carry sound waves,

but now sound begins to travel through the oxygen that slowly

fills the cabin.

The sounds are muffled, like the sounds of the outside world

heard from within the womb.

A beeping sound intermittently penetrates the airlock, anxious

and halting.

The Control System's graph slowly moves from red to orange. The

cabin is still not fully pressurized.

But that will have to do.

With one sharp motion-

SHE TAKES OFF HER HELMET-

And pushes it from her head.

She gasps for air and coughs.

She contorts and shakes, fighting to breath in the thin

atmosphere of the airlock. Her helmet bounces around the walls

of the cabin, floating.

The beeping sound has become clearer and recognizable - it is an

alarm ringing out across the Station.

Orange is turning to green. Her lungs begin to absorb the oxygen

and her breath becomes more even. Her body floats, relaxed in

the confined space of the airlock.

SHE FLOATS.

Ryan brings her hands together and removes one glove.

And then the other.

Desperately, she begins to unscrew the lock near her waist. She

squirms under the suit and pushes off the upper half.

Then she throws off the lower half, squirming out of it as if

shedding her old skin, desperate to free herself from the

claustrophobia of the suit.

Wearing only underwear and a t-shirt, she floats in mid-air,

relieved and exhausted. The hum of the Space Station surrounds

her.

Then, slowly, she pulls her knees to her chest and enfolds them

in her arms, floating in a fetal position.

For a moment, Ryan simply hangs in suspension, a fly in amber,

surrendering to the poetry of the planets, rotating slowly in

the cabin's womb.

OUTER SPACE. 500 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

SILENCE.

The International Space Station, with its modules, its torn

solar panels, and the Soyuz with its parachute billowing out

from its center, is dwarfed against Earth's orb and the infinite

universe stretching out beyond.

The Station looks frail and secluded, lost somewhere between the

grandness of the Heavens and the Earth below.

Everything is still.

INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION. ZVEZDA MODULE.

The module is like a wide corridor filled with cabinets, a small

eating area and a small gym. A HUM reverberates across the

station.

At the end of the module there is an open circular hatch leading

UNITY NODE 1.

A spherical space with three hatches, each leading into

different modules.

A HATCH OPENS and-

Ryan floats in. She stops at the center and holds onto a handle.

She looks in all directions and launches to her right, towards

ZARYA MODULE.

There are sleeping bags fastened to the walls. Clothes, shoes, a

strip of three condoms -- all kinds of personal objects float in

chaos around the module.

It's clear that someone left in a hurry.

Ryan passes a stationary bicycle and reaches for a metal cabinet

on the wall.

She OPENS drawers, looking for something.

She finds what she's looking for: a BAG OF WATER with a straw at

one end. She unscrews the top and begins to drink from it.

She DRINKS in long gulps, squeezing the bottle, trying to quench

her thirst. DROPS FLOAT out of her mouth as the water overflows.

They float around her face like perfect pearls of different

sizes.

She takes a pause from drinking to catch her breath. The water

is cooling her down, but she still takes another long, thirsty

gulp and empties the bag.

She checks the count on the STOPWATCH- 14 minutes and counting

down.

She takes a new bag of water from the drawer, and pushing

herself off of a wall, she dives into the-

UNITY NODE 2-

Without stopping, she goes through one of the open hatches into

ZVEZDA MODULE.

The walls are filled with electrical equipment and wires.

Without slowing down her momentum, she floats to the-

MAIN CONSOLE- A large deck which houses all of the communication

and navigational systems.

On the opposite wall there is a LARGE PORTHOLE through which

Earth is clearly seen.

She begins to PUSH BUTTONS.

COMPUTERS COME TO LIFE and Ryan puts on a communications

headset.

STATIC CRACKLES.

She waits.

Nothing... only static.

She drifts along the module, listening intently through the

headset.

No voices. Just static.

Nothing.

She waits ONE SECOND, TWO SECONDS-

The signal cuts in and out, but remains indecipherable. There is

something unnerving about it.

She drops her head and continues drifting toward the porthole,

listening as the STATIC SPUTTERS.

Waiting for him to respond, and in a softer voice, completely

She bumps against the PORTHOLE, and glances out-

The Earth glimmers brightly. A third of the hemisphere is in

complete darkness. Her FACE REFLECTED in the glass is

SUPERIMPOSED over the EARTH.

Her eyes glisten briefly, but she fights it back. Then she pulls

herself together, and begins reporting-

The way Matt would have done it-

Ryan hovers by the porthole, looking hopeless.

All is silent save for the RADIO static and the hum of the Space

Station.

Outside the Aurora Borealis performs its ghostly dance over the

Earth's Northern Hemisphere.

SILENCE. Only the hum and the static, when-

An ALARM CHIRPS, RED LIGHTS FLICKERING across the module.

Ryan twists, swimming back to the control panel, studying a

FLASHING grid of LEDS:

GRAPH OF THE STATION-

...where a blinking light indicates the Japanese Module IS ON

FIRE.

The Destiny Lab begins blinking.

THE FIRE IS EXPANDING

She pushes herself toward the hatch, swimming through the few

pieces of paper still hovering as she exits into the-

UNITY NODE 1.

The ALARM'S STACCATO is blasting in synchrony with the emergency

lights blinking across the station.

SMOOTH BLUE FLAMES ribbon eerily across the skin of the Destiny

Lab. They are spreading, expanding with a dense cloud of SMOKE.

Ryan enters and snatches a FIRE EXTINGUISHER on the wall of the

module, and-

She points the nozzle at the fire and SPRAYS.

With no gravity to hold her down, the force of the spray SENDS

HER FLYING BACK and-

SHE CRASHES AGAINST A WALL. The fire extinguisher bangs against

her face and CUTS HER LIP.

The impact is so strong that it almost knocks her out. Her eyes

fill with tears but she reacts.

There's no time to lose. She fastens her feet to a strap on the

floor, and-

SPRAYS the extinguisher at the fire. But the extinguisher is no

match for the fire, which has gathered in a gigantic smooth blue

ball and is expanding, coming at her.

Ryan makes a fast turn and launches herself in the opposite

direction into the-

Dashing straight into the-

She darts across the module, behind her-

The expanding fire ball has swallowed the Unity Node and is

making its way towards her, chasing her into the-

UNITY NODE 2-

Where she makes a quick turn and darts down into the-

Just in time. Above her, the flames cross the Node as they

spread into the rest of the Station.

They quickly spread downward, into the Docking Module.

Ryan, the flames caressing her feet, dives through a hatch into

SOYUZ. AIRLOCK.

Ryan crashes against a Space Suit floating inside and turns to

close the hatch.

THE FIRE is spreading outside in the module, sucking the oxygen

out of the Soyuz. An incandescent blue bubble that charges at

her.

Ryan, faster than fire, CLOSES THE HATCH.

THE SOYUZ IS SEALED OFF.

She closes a second hatch, and the Soyuz is safe.

She exhales in RELIEF.

A RUMBLE in the Station makes the Soyuz quake.

The extinguisher is blocking her path to the hatch and Ryan has

to push it into the cabin as she darts toward the-

SOYUZ. CONTROL CABIN.

As soon as she makes it through the hatch, she TURNS the CABIN

LIGHTS ON.

There is just enough space for three astronauts to sit

surrounded by the CONTROL PANEL that navigates the vessel.

She sits down in the command chair.

She fastens the safety belt, and looks around, trying to

recognize the different buttons on the panel, which are all

labeled in Russian.

She moves her finger across the different buttons, searching.

Her finger stops on a button, which is labeled- BKN

She presses on it and the CONTROL PANEL turns ON. All the

buttons light up and with a hum, the Soyuz's systems start to

run.

Ryan reaches to the right, where next to the panel, there are

several binders, each a different color.

And she takes out a RED BINDER.

It's all written in Cyrillic. She turns the pages until she sees

a GRAPHIC representing the UNDOCKING PROCEDURE.

She uses the CURSORS on the panel and selects a function on the

COMPUTER SCREEN.

She presses another button and-

On the SCREEN, a COUNTDOWN- 4:30... 4:29... 4:28...

Another RUMBLE in the Station.

She flips through the binder to another page. She looks at a

diagram and uses the cursors on the panel to change the function

on the screen-

She releases the SAFETY LOCK on a BUTTON.

AN EXPLOSION in the Station makes everything shake. The

vibration passes through her body, startling her, and-

SHE PRESSES the BUTTON.

The SOUND of a mechanism releasing reverberates throughout the

vessel.

OUTER SPACE. INTERNATIONAL SPACE STATION. 500 KM ABOVE EARTH.

SILENCE.

A SPRING MECHANISM pushes the Soyuz away from the Station.

SLOWLY.

VERY SLOWLY.

The Spacecraft is made out of three modules- the ENGINE, the

CONTROL CABIN, and the AIRLOCK at the front.

SOYUZ. CONTROL CABIN.

Detached from the Space Station, the rumbling has ceased,

leaving only the gentle hum of the cabin.

ON THE PERISCOPE-

The distance between the Soyuz and the Docking Module grows

little by little as the vessel drifts away from it.

Ryan sits tensely and checks the manual and-

She presses different buttons, bringing to life a new set of

systems.

She grabs the joysticks with her hand, and-

OUTER SPACE. 500 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The lateral thrusters give a small thrust, and as the spacecraft

moves away from the Station it drags its parachute, which floats

lifelessly in space.

ANOTHER BIGGER THRUST, and as the Soyuz pulls away from the

Station, the parachute's ropes tense, and-

A BIG JOLT.

SOYUZ. CONTROL CABIN.

Her seat belts prevent her from being projected forward as the

Soyuz is pulled to a sudden stop.

Ryan is very confused, unaware of the reason for the sudden

stop. She looks at-

The Station is drifting out of the scope's sight.

She turns to-

And through the glass she sees that-

The Station is coming straight at her and it looks as though-

THEY'RE ABOUT TO COLLIDE.

She presses the joystick.

OUTER SPACE. 500 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Soyuz is two meters away from the Station, about to crash,

The SOFT JETS ignite, launching the vessel upwards.

The Soyuz skims just over the Docking Module and passes three

inches away from the solar panels, barely avoiding a collision

with the metal giant.

And as the Soyuz drifts upwards, the Station passes under it.

SOYUZ. CONTROL CABIN.

Now Ryan can see through-

The parachute is tangled with a solar panel and the ropes are

tensing up, and-

SHE'S SHAKEN BY A NEW PULL.

OUTER SPACE. 500 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Soyuz stabilizes over the Station, the parachute entwined

with the solar panel.

SOYUZ. CONTROL CABIN.

She looks out at-

The rope extends from the cabin to the parachute tangled with

the Station.

OUTER SPACE. 500 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Station hovers below the Soyuz like a large whale swimming

beneath a tiny lifeboat.

The HATCH of the Soyuz OPENS.

Ryan comes out of the craft into space. She's wearing the space

suit she packed and she carries a large bag.

She holds onto handles as she floats, SAFELY TETHERED to the

inside of the cabin.

She LOOKS around-

The International Space Station is a looming presence floating

ten meters below. It is pulling the Soyuz by its parachute.

An ALARM on her STOPWATCH RINGS. It's been 85 MINUTES.

She turns the alarm off and looks around.

SHE HUMS A SONG, the tune is reminiscent of the Hank Williams

Melody that Matt had played earlier.

She begins to climb around the vessel. With plenty of oxygen in

her pressurized suit, this is not a difficult task.

She pulls herself from handle to handle, making her way around

the Soyuz and reaching-

THE PARACHUTE CONTAINER-

An impact has blown open the cover. Three ropes float out of the

container into space. Three meters away from the vessel each

rope branches into dozens of parachute strings. Next to it-

A second cover is also badly damaged.

Harnessing herself to a handle, she inspects the ropes. The

three ropes are bolted to the container's frame.

She harnesses the bag and RESUMES her HUMMING, louder this time.

She unzips the bag and takes out the PISTOL GRIP tool, without

noticing that behind her-

DOZENS OF PIECES OF DEBRIS pass, zooming less than thirty meters

away from the Station.

A tiny piece of high-speed debris crashes against one of the

Station's Solar panels, shattering it and causing the Station to

tremble.

She places the tool against the FIRST BOLT, stretching her arm

into the parachute container. It is an awkward position.

She pulls the trigger and the drill rotates, turning the bolt,

but it slides out of the notch.

She places the tool once more against the bolt and pulls the

trigger. The drill rotates, SLOWER this time.

She HUMS under her breath and SWEAT begins to drop down her

forehead.

She is very focused, unaware that behind her-

DEBRIS HITS THE STATION'S SOLAR PANEL, piercing holes through

it.

THE BOLT COMES OFF.

As it FLOATS OFF into space, Ryan drops the PISTOL GRIP and uses

both hands to detach the rope from the frame.

The ROPE FLOATS away from the Soyuz, undulating like a long

snake, but-

Ryan notices that the Pistol Grip is also floating away.

She stretches her arm trying to catch it, but it is out of her

reach.

She pushes herself towards the pistol grip, and barely manages

to grab onto it when she sees-

THE TIDE OF DEBRIS is floating STRAIGHT AT HER.

She pulls herself back to the container.

DEBRIS HITS THE STATION.

It CRASHES in SILENCE against one of its modules, creating a

hole the size of a car wheel. The vacuum sucks BLUE FLAMES from

the station that quickly die without oxygen to consume.

Ryan brings the pistol-grip to the SECOND BOLT and pulls the

trigger. The bolt spins.

Ryan is HUMMING louder and louder.

Ryan stares intently at the head of the bolt turning as the

debris zooms by behind her.

THE SECOND BOLT COMES OFF.

She quickly pulls the rope loose from the frame and lets it

float away.

Shaken by the impacts, the Space Station drags the Soyuz with

it.

She braces herself as-

DEBRIS WREAKS HAVOC- some pieces hit the Station, others crash

against one another. Each collision creates more debris that

ricochet and fly away in all directions.

The Soyuz is pulled by the remaining parachute rope, as the

Station spins out of control.

Ryan starts humming even louder, the bravado is full tilt now.

Her face is now covered in sweat, which pours into her eyes,

making it difficult to see as she unscrews the last bolt.

Behind her, a cluster of debris PIERCES THE PARACHUTE.

Ryan continues drilling as-

MORE DEBRIS HIT THE STATION.

It CRASHES against the Japanese Lab, which silently EXPLODES

into millions of pieces. The pieces expand away from the

Station.

THE LAST BOLT COMES OFF.

Ryan manages to unhook the rope, freeing the Soyuz from the

collapsing Space Station.

She braces herself against the vessel, as she sees-

The Soyuz is heading straight towards the Station's Solar

Panels.

The Soyuz' Solar Panel collides with the Station's, shattering

into smaller pieces of debris that almost hit Ryan.

The Soyuz spins away as-

MORE DEBRIS HITS THE STATION.

Ryan watches as a succession of satellite fragments pepper the

slowly revolving Station segments. As the segments crumble,

colliding with additional debris, the fragments glimmer

magnificently then join...

...the THINNING TIDE OF DEBRIS orbiting toward the dark side of

the Earth. All of a sudden...

EVERYTHING IS CALM.

She pauses, blinking into the suddenly empty distance. Her gaze

remains fixed on the vast nothingness--for no good reason--but

nevertheless FIXED on something.

SOYUZ SPACECRAFT. CONTROL CABIN.

A SYMPHONY OF ALARMS shrieks loudly. The hatch FLIES open and a

helmet floats in, followed quickly by Ryan.

She presses different buttons, and with each a voice of the

alarm symphony dies until they are completely silent.

She takes a breath and begins fastening the seat belt.

She puts on the communication headset and-

Resets the STOPWATCH- 85 minutes and counting down.

She checks the TEMPERATURE GAUGE-

She exhales, the plume of her hot breath hanging briefly in the

frigid cabin air before evaporating.

She takes the JOYSTICK.

Ryan looks focused at-

Where the western horizon comes into frame and nears the center

crosshair.

A small dot GLIMMERS in the distance- THE CHINESE STATION.

She moves the Joystick, and the crosshair readjusts.

She releases the safety lock and places her finger on the

button.

She releases the safety lock.

She pushes on the button.

OUTER SPACE. 300 KM ABOVE EARTH.

The Soyuz floats with its nose directed towards a bright star on

the horizon, the Chinese Station, but-

Nothing, not even a small flame, comes out of its back

thrusters.

CONTROL CABIN.

Ryan waits, expectantly, and gives the button a NEW PUSH, but-

Nothing. The thruster won't ignite.

OUTER SPACE. 300 KM ABOVE EARTH.

The vessel remains motionless, orbiting over the Pacific which

is already under night's dark veil.

CONTROL CABIN.

She pushes again, and again, and again-

OUTER SPACE. 300 KM ABOVE EARTH.

But NOTHING.

The Soyuz stays in place.

CONTROL CABIN.

Ryan looks at the FUEL GAUGE- 30 percent.

She taps on it and the frozen needle drops to EMPTY.

She taps on the frozen dial once more, as if trying to get the

needle to go back up, and once again-

She taps even harder this time.

She bangs down on the control panel in frustration--

OUTER SPACE. 300 KM ABOVE EARTH.

Inside the capsule, through the portal, Ryan hits and hits,

bouncing around the confined space of the cabin and venting all

her anger, until she herself is out of fuel.

She grabs the radio and-

THE SUN SETS.

A magical cosmic act. As the sun nears the edge of the Earth,

the atmosphere brightens, shining with a luminous orange light

that is reflected off the surface of the Pacific Ocean.

At the Soyuz's orbiting speed this does not last long. The sun

quickly dips behind the edge of the Earth and the whole face of

the planet is in shadow.

The vessel is almost lost in the deep black of night.

Fluorescent green light pours out of the porthole, like a lonely

firefly lost in the deep of night.

CONTROL CABIN.

And the night has brought with it its cold grip.

Ryan shivers and her voice is now weak, but she continues

searching for help-

She turns her neck stiffly, looks at the-

TEMPERATURE DIAL, -8 degrees and dropping. Through the PORTHOLE

the SUN drops. DARKNESS descends.

Finally, a SOUND SURFACES through the static:

A CRACKLING.

The CRACKLING SOUND is coming from the communication headset.

Ryan puts it on and brings the mouthpiece to her lips.

This glimmer of hope gives her a new burst of energy.

She TURNS ON THE CABIN LIGHT and attempts to tune into the

frequency, turning one of the control panel's dials. She frowns.

Fragmented words emerge through the static.

She turns the dial slowly, clinging desperately to the wavering

thread of communication.

Words BURST FORTH, ringing clear as a bell for a moment.

Ryan blinks. The transmission is not in English.

As she tunes in a faint voice is distinguished. It doesn't

appear to be in Chinese either.

The voice on the transmission appears to be a man in a very

jovial mood. He keeps laughing.

The HOARSE LAUGHING of an MAN rises through the STATIC.

She starts to speak again but the glimmer of hope fades from her

face with the realization that this man does not understand her

plea.

A noise in the background makes Ryan smile.

The barking of several dogs can be heard behind the man's voice.

She GRINS.

She listens to the man's laughing voice, shakes her head

helplessly and sighs.

Through THE PORTHOLE-

Even under the darkness of night, it is possible to see the

glaciers spreading over the green forests. It all looks so fresh

and full of life.

She makes barking noises. The man begins to laugh and barks back

at her.

Ryan and Aningang bark in unison.

Ryan begins to HOWL, giving in to the mad joy of it all.

Moments later, through the RADIO, she is joined by a CHORUS of

CANINES--Aningang's DOGS--TUNING INTO HER VOICE in a mad, crazy

harmonic cacophony. Ryan smiles, blissfully happy, howling with

abandon.

Each howling reaches deeper and is more cathartic, unlocking

emotions that have been festering over time, and-

TEARS ROLL FROM HER EYES, clear as crystals, spilling from her

lashes and floating INTO THE AIR, glimmering LIKE SAPPHIRES in

the cool moonlight.

They float away, like tiny satellites orbiting her face.

Aningang can be heard intermittently, YELLING, as if trying to

silence the dogs. Then the dogs, one by one, cease their wailing

and Ryan is left with nothing but her own voice.

She stops, gazing at her tears suspended in the gloomy blue

light.

The SIGNAL ebbs, losing its battle with the STATIC.

The STATIC waffles in and out.

The STATIC breaks and Aningang's HUSKY VOICE begins SINGING.

Ryan is floating now over her seat.

She rolls in space and stares upwards...

The tune is lyrical and soothing, tinged with a touch of

melancholy.

Ryan listens to Aningang's melody and smiles softly, closing her

eyes.

Ryan's face grows slack as she drifts toward unconsciousness,

buoyed along on Aningang's sad soulful song. Then...

...a SPUTTERING CRY cuts through the static.

A BABY.

Ryan's eyes pop open.

A beat. Aningang stops singing, speaking in a soft voice:

Ryan is transfixed, listening to the gentle gurgle of the baby

as Aningang coos to it, then begins to SING again.

Painful memories flash before her, haunting her. Ryan's lump in

her throat is washed away by a gentle sob.

She reaches for a valve and opens it.

A HIZZING sound is heard inside the vessel, and-

ON THE SCREEN-

The Oxygen in the cabin's atmosphere begins to drop.

SHE TURNS OFF THE LIGHT.

Ryan closes her eyes, simply listening to the lullaby as it

grows fainter...

The transmission grows fainter...

...and fainter...

...and then is...

...gone.

For a long beat Ryan merely sits there. She is gently humming a

tune.

It is a LULLABY.

SHE SURRENDERS.

SHE WEEPS.

A quiet deep sorrow that silently grows in intensity and that

finally explodes into-

A SOFT WAIL.

TEARS float around her like tiny satellites.

The cold and the gentle humming of the Soyuz cradles Ryan.

She closes her eyes, and as her breathing relaxes she begins to

fall asleep, until-

CLICK CLICK CLICK.

Ryan opens her eyes, startled.

CLICK CLICK CLICK.

Ryan turns in confusion and looks at-

THROUGH THE GLASS, the helmet of an astronaut is looking in.

IT IS MATT.

He knocks once more, this time louder.

CLICK CLICK CLICK.

Ryan is still drowsy and does not understand what is going on,

when she sees that-

The latch on the porthole begins to move.

But the latch continues to open.

Ryan immediately straps herself to the commander chair.

The latch keeps turning.

Ryan covers her eyes and face with her hands when-

THE LATCH RELEASES and

THE HATCH SWINGS OPEN.

The VACUUM of space sucks in one sharp gust all the air inside

the cabin and with it every sound.

The straps hold Ryan back as objects gush out through the hatch.

Her hands press tightly covering her face.

On the Control Panel alarms begin to flash.

A SHADOWY FIGURE makes its way in and with one sharp motion-

Turns and closes the hatch. Presses a green button and-

The cabin begins to pressurize.

And sound re-emerges with the beeping of the alarms as-

The red-orange-green graph on the control panel show the

atmospheric levels reaching green.

Ryan uncovers her face and stares from the shadows at the

figure, who straps into the seat next to her. He unlocks the

ring around his collar and-

TAKES OFF HIS HELMET.

COUNTRY WESTERN MUSIC escapes into the cabin.

The figure glances around.

He taps a few buttons on the console and a face blooms:

Matt.

Ryan stares, mouth agape.

He reaches out and effortlessly flicks a myriad array of

switches. Instantly, the alarms go silent.

Ryan looks at him wide eyed, wanting to know how-

Matt fishes a SMALL FLASK from under his seat, spins off the

cap...

...and takes a big gulp. He offers the flask to Ryan, who

appears to be dozing off. She blinks, shakes her head.

He studies her.

He looks at the monitors, where the Chinese Station is seen.

Ryan is falling asleep. Matt studies her as she dozes off.

Matt starts flipping through buttons on the console, turning the

cabin lights off.

When the cabin is in darkness, he turns and looks at Ryan.

Ryan is having trouble keeping her eyes open.

Ryan is almost sound asleep.

Ryan is asleep.

Her eyes snap open.

Her gaze shifts. The flask is floating in front of her. But no

Matt. She turns. THE CABIN IS EMPTY. She turns back.

CLICK CLICK CLICK.

Ryan notices that the gate of the ventilation duct is shaking,

making a percussive sound.

A SOFT COOL LIGHT shines in through the condensation that has

frozen on the glass. It is-

THE MOONLIGHT caressing Ryan's face.

With a new surge of determination she TURNS ON THE CABIN LIGHT.

She pulls the HELMET floating above her and puts it on.

She connects the umbilical to her suit, opens the Oxygen Valve,

and begins to breath.

As the Oxygen flows back into her brain a new surge of

determination brightens her face.

She opens the valves of the other two umbilicals, allowing

Oxygen to flow, pressurizing the cabin.

She grabs the MANUAL.

She opens the green binder and browses through its index.

She stops, turns some pages and stares closely at the manual.

Ryan notices the Energy Bar floating by her. She grabs it and as

she opens the wrapper, she stares intently at one page of the

MANUAL, where there is-

An ILLUSTRATION of the Soyuz Capsule two meters before landing

and hitting the ground. A thrust is shooting out from under its

bottom, cushioning its fall: THE SOFT LANDING ENGINES.

She puts on the communication headset.

She looks out of the porthole, down at Earth.

She turns back to the console and places her finger over one of

the buttons.

Ryan smiles, remembering... and then-

She presses the button.

OUTER SPACE.

The locks connecting the three modules of the Soyuz release.

CONTROL CABIN, AIRLOCK, and the ENGINES SEPARATE.

A mechanism pushes the CONTROL CABIN away from the AIRLOCK and

the ENGINES, and it slowly gains distance from them.

CONTROL CABIN.

Ryan scans through the complicated charts and diagrams in the

manual.

A pause, and then-

Using the manual as a reference, Ryan uses the cursors to select

the ALTITUDE DISPLAY on the computer screen.

The current ALTITUDE is- 2600 M.

She uses the cursors and presses a button. A WARNING on the

computer screen comes on.

She presses another button, and-

ON THE SCREEN, the ALTITUDE goes blank.

Ryan punches a new set of commands.

The ALTITUDE now reads- 3 meters.

She extends her finger...

SHE PRESSES THE BUTTON.

OUTER SPACE.

A THREE SECOND THRUST ignites at the back of the cabin, pushing

it at great speeds toward the Chinese Station.

SOYUZ CONTROL CABIN.

The strength of the thrust pushes Ryan back in her seat.

She looks at-

The Soyuz is approaching the Tiangong. The center of the

crosshair is aiming three degrees above the Chinese Station.

OUTER SPACE.

The Soyuz is making its way rapidly towards the Chinese Station.

CONTROL CABIN.

Ryan is looking out of the window, at Earth-

She then turns to-

The Chinese Station quickly grows in size as the Soyuz gets

closer and closer.

ALTITUDE DIAL- 155 km and dropping.

A new sense of urgency comes up on Ryan's face.

She unhooks the umbilical from her suit.

She unstraps herself.

She floats over and looks out of-

The Chinese Station is approaching, getting closer.

She disarms the emergency exit and holds on to the LATCH.

She pauses and turns to grab the fire extinguisher and holds it

tightly against her chest with one arm. With the other arm-

She reaches for the Latch.

The Station is hovering right next to her and the cabin is going

to pass it.

She turns the latch, and-

PYROTECHNICS shoot the porthole into space.

The brutal force of the infinite VACUUM of space SUCKS THE AIR

out of the cabin, and-

Ryan is LAUNCHED out of the cabin at a tremendous speed.

SHE HITS HER SHOULDER as she goes through the hatch into-

OUTER SPACE.

A CANNONBALL WOMAN is launched up from the Soyuz's hatch. She

passes the Chinese Station as she twirls up toward the Heavens.

The Soyuz continues its straight trajectory toward Earth.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan is stunned from the impact and her shoulder is in pain.

Everything twirls.

Earth and Heavens.

An ALARM in her STOPWATCH RINGS. It's been EIGHTY-FIVE MINUTES.

And she spins and sees-

THE TIANGONG, one mile below her. And below it-

A bright comet leaves behind a yellow scratch over the Earth. It

THE SOYUZ BURNING upon contact with the atmosphere.

Ryan drifts away. She holds tightly to the fire extinguisher

with one hand, and with the other she checks her right shoulder.

IT HURTS.

But there's no time, the Tiangong is getting farther away. She

points the nozzle of the fire extinguisher away from her and

It acts like a thrust that pushes her toward the Station. It

helped, but she is still off target.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She is in pain.

The glass visor is steaming up.

She begins HUMMING as she looks at-

The Station drifting ahead, less than five hundred meters away.

From this distance the damage caused to the Tiangong by the

debris is clear. The solar panels are shredded to pieces, and

several modules appear to have been badly hit.

Propelling herself even closer to the Station.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She stops humming. Her breath is fogging up the glass, giving

her a blurred view of-

The Station, which is less than a hundred meters away. She can

The LIFEBOAT, the SHENZHOU, a vessel very similar to the Soyuz,

is docked on a module.

It's now clear that she's not flying straight toward the

Station.

Ryan attempts to correct her trajectory by giving-

But only a very SMALL THRUST comes out of the extinguisher, not

enough to push her on the right track.

She PULLS the trigger again-

But only a few dust particles come out. The extinguisher is

empty. She lets go of it and it floats away.

She drifts toward the Station, SLOWLY.

She is less than twenty meters away, and getting closer.

AND CLOSER.

And she misses it by a hair.

She drifts, very slowly, two meters above the Station.

Her arm, outstretched, tries to grab hold of anything it can.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

Ryan winces in pain and looks at-

Her outstretched arm reaching toward-

She slowly drifts across the modules, the tips of her fingers

almost touching the surface of the Tiangong.

A handle passes under her, almost within reach, but she does not

manage to hold onto it.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She's struggling, but she knows she's not going to make it. She

looks ahead at-

A solar panel, following the rotation of the Station, comes into

view.

She stretches out her arm as she gets closer to it.

But the solar panel continues its rotation and she is

approaching very slowly.

The panel is rotating away.

She STRETCHES, and-

She GRABS onto a rod on the Solar Panel, STOPPING her momentum.

Ryan hangs from the Station. She holds her right arm tightly to

her chest.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She catches her breath and is clearly in pain.

A LONESOME PIECE OF DEBRIS.

It hovers above the Station and glows as the sunlight hits its

surface. It passes very quickly.

And there's ANOTHER ONE cruising farther above.

She pulls her right arm up.

The pain is excruciating, but she grabs onto the panel's rod,

SHE PULLS HERSELF UP, and clinging with her leg, she secures

herself to the panel.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

She's panting, and through the fogged up glass she can see, far

away over the horizon-

BRIGHT DOTS.

Pieces of debris burn as they hit the atmosphere. A swarm of

incandescent locusts that-

Is coming directly at her.

Ignoring her pain but using her right arm as little as possible,

she climbs up to-

THE BODY OF THE STATION.

She goes over the module and makes her way across, pulling

herself from handle to handle.

When she reaches the end of it, with one last BIG PULL she makes

it to the-

HATCH that leads into the airlock.

With her bad arm she holds onto a handle.

With the other, she pulls on the latch and-

OPENS THE AIRLOCK.

A gust of AIR bursts out, pushing the hatch wide open.

Ryan holds on tightly to the handle.

Clusters of DEBRIS pass by, flying at different distances and at

great speeds.

Pieces COLLIDE with each other, exploding into more debris.

A BIG PIECE OF DEBRIS is flying downward, missing the Station by

ten meters as it continues its descent. And-

250 meters below, it BURNS like a shooting star.

The Station is rapidly approaching Earth's atmosphere.

And over the Eastern horizon-

A CLOUD OF DUST is quickly approaching.

THE TIDE OF DEBRIS.

TIANGONG. AIRLOCK. 150 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

Ryan secures the hatch.

The airlock is smaller than the one in the International Space

Station but, like the ISS, there is a small control panel on one

side.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

The glass is almost fogged up. She makes her way to the-

The red, yellow, and green graph is bright red. Under it, TWO

BUTTONS with Chinese ideograms on them.

Her finger hesitates as she takes a wild guess.

A FAINT HISSING SOUND is heard.

THE CABIN PRESSURIZES.

As oxygen fills the space-

SOUND BEGINS TO EMERGE.

Unrecognizable at first is a rhythmic pattern under a syncopated

murmur. But as air allows sound to conduct its waves, it becomes

clear.

AN ALARM IS GOING OFF.

Over it a recording plays in a LOOP. It is in Mandarin. The

VOICE in the recording is urgent. Clearly it is not good news.

She's in pain and more tired than ever now, and she's punchy.

She waits, floating.

INSIDE THE HELMET-

The glass is completely fogged up. Through the condensation, she

can only discern a RED LIGHT filtering through.

She waits.

And when the RED GLOW turns to ORANGE-

Ryan UNLOCKS her helmet and, using only her left hand, struggles

to take it off.

As the helmet floats, bouncing off of the cabin walls, Ryan

massages her injured shoulder. She does this gently, as even the

smallest pressure inflicts pain.

The orange light is turning green when-

She feels the Station quake fiercely, reverberating through the

handle she's holding onto.

THE STATION RUMBLES.

OUTER SPACE.

The Tiangong is plummeting.

The tip of a solar panel is already grazing over the outer

layers of the atmosphere, leaving a trail behind it as it parts

the gases.

DEBRIS passing under the Station burn up.

TIANGONG NODE 1.

EVERYTHING SHAKES.

Ryan rushes out of the airlock.

A new intensity sparkles in her eyes. Her fearlessness and

determination are bordering with madness.

She inspects her surroundings. Through a hatch she sees a long

corridor-like cabin that leads to another node. It is the LAB

MODULE.

The LOOP keeps on playing.

She enters the hatch into the-

TIANGONG LAB MODULE.

The only light is coming from flickering emergency lights.

Objects float in chaos.

Ryan makes her way, dodging the disarray of lab objects-

Scientific instruments: A plant drifting by with its roots

exposed, clusters of liquid floating like wobbly spheres, two

eggs hovering, one of which is broken.

THE SHAKING INTENSIFIES as-

She reaches the end of the module and goes into the-

TIANGONG NODE 2.

She floats to the center of the node.

There are three open hatches- RIGHT, LEFT, and-

A Docking Module, very similar to the one in the ISS. At the far

end of it an open hatch leads into the SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

MORE RUMBLING SHAKES THE STATION.

OUTER SPACE.

A SOLAR PANEL, defeated by the friction with the atmosphere,

breaks off from the Station and is thrown farther down, where it

quickly burns, dissolving into sparks.

The TIDAL WAVE of debris is catching up with the Station, a

cloud of metal pieces that sparkle with the sunlight.

BRIGHT STREAKS can be seen as debris burns, scratching through

the atmosphere.

TIANGONG NODE 2.

Ryan springs into the-

DOCKING MODULE.

Floating through it and reaching the open hatch at the other

end, she tosses the helmet inside the Shenzhou.

A LOUD METALLIC ROAR. The Station is collapsing. She dives

through the hatch into the-

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD. AIRLOCK.

It is almost identical to the Soyuz's airlock.

She does a quick flip and-

CLOSES the outer hatch.

Then she pulls on another latch and-

CLOSES the inner hatch.

The Shenzhou is SEALED OFF from the rest of the Station.

She throws the helmet into the Control Cabin and follows

through, into the-

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD. CONTROL CABIN.

She struggles to turn around in the confined space, and then-

She pulls the hatch CLOSED.

THE CONTROL CABIN IS SEALED.

The Shenzhou is smaller than the Soyuz and has only one seat. In

this confined space, the SHAKING of the station is felt even

stronger.

She sits, BUCKLES herself in, and looks at the-

CONTROL PANEL.

It has more monitors than the Soyuz's panel, and the main board

is arranged differently. All of the buttons are labeled with

CHINESE IDEOGRAMS.

AND IT IS SHAKING FIERCELY.

A thin bright yellow halo covers the whole window.

OUTER SPACE.

The yellow halo envelops the whole Station as it glides over the

outer atmosphere.

FRICTION.

The remaining SOLAR PANEL resists breaking off from the

structure, but still goes up in flames, leaving a trail of

SPARKS.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

EVERYTHING IS SHAKING.

She passes her finger over the board, trying to make sense of

the buttons.

An ALARM RINGS, and under the ongoing LOOP, a RECORDING, clearly

warning.

She glances around frantically, turns it off.

It's shaking very intensely but she's wide-eyed now, clearly

close to being beside herself.

She tries a BIG BUTTON that says-

A NEW ALARM, followed by a NEW RECORDING, also a warning-

And with a horrible accent-

She keeps searching for the right button.

And she presses a new one.

The LIGHTS on the Control Panel GO ON. The cabin makes a humming

sound as SYSTEMS BEGIN TO ACTIVATE.

On the control panel lights go on in patterns reminiscent of the

switchboard in the Soyuz.

She begins going through the progressions she used on the Soyuz,

only quicker this time, jabbing button after button.

She presses one more button and systems turn to green.

She raises her voice to be heard over the GROWING RUMBLE.

She presses a new button and the system goes to green. And on

the MONITOR a COUNTDOWN appears.

She reacts to a bad shake of the cabin.

She looks around as the cabin starts shaking even harder.

She watches the COUNTDOWN on the MONITOR- 3:59... 3:58...

Ryan keeps her eyes fixed on the countdown. Raises her voice to

compete with the rising chaos...

And now the noise and the shake are nearing their peak...

Ryan smiles, flips the safety lid of a button open.

As the cabin RATTLES VIOLENTLY.

She closes her eyes, puts her finger over the button.

Ryan presses the button.

OUTER SPACE.

The Station is bouncing over the atmosphere. One end of it is

glowing more brightly and catches FIRE.

The TIDE OF DEBRIS is getting closer. Not far off some pieces

are already burning.

A LARGE PIECE OF DEBRIS has caught on fire and is flying at

great speed and-

COLLIDES WITH THE STATION,

Tearing it into two parts, which are sent twisting in opposite

directions. The ESCAPE POD, attached to the DOCK, is spinning

towards earth.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

Ryan is SHAKEN and RATTLED in her seat.

GRAVITY is still minimal, but the force of the inertia is rough

and it jerks her around. She sees-

A RED LEVER above her, but she can only reach it with her bad

hand.

SHE GRABS THE LEVER-

AND PULLS IT.

OUTER SPACE.

THE LOCKS DISENGAGE-

THE CABIN separates from the rest of the vessel and from the

Station. It spins away, plummeting toward the atmosphere.

The two fragments of the Tiangong follow, spinning in a rage of

sparks and fire.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

The spinning is punishing. Ryan is shaken violently. She is also

mumbling words to herself that we can't hear. It looks like she

rambling.

Some LIGHTS GO OFF.

ATMOSPHERE. 130 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The capsule's aerodynamics slow down the spinning, positioning

the vessel nose up.

It cuts through the atmosphere at incredible speeds.

Its metal is burning hot.

Smoldering DEBRIS and the fragments of the STATION chase the

Shenzhou in its descent.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

A blinding light pours in from outside the window.

The spinning is over, but the cabin vibrates with a loud rumble.

As the G-Force restrains Ryan against her seat, she clenches her

face and sweats.

On the ceiling, condensation begins to form.

ATMOSPHERE. 120 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Shenzhou is a ball of fire precipitating from the skies.

It's followed very closely by DEBRIS and the two fragments of

the STATION.

The TWO FRAGMENTS COLLIDE and EXPLODE into a ball of fire that

breaks into many pieces.

An avalanche of fire cascades towards the Shenzhou, rapidly

closing the distance.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

In THE PORTHOLE-

Outside burning debris is passing by. The gravitational pull

keeps Ryan tense in her seat as drops fall on her face. She

THE CEILING- where condensation is dripping.

ATMOSPHERE. 100 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The avalanche is about to swallow the cabin when the burning

debris disintegrates before reaching the cooling STRATOSPHERE.

The capsule escapes the inferno as the debris crumbles in a

final explosion expelling-

A VERY SMALL PIECE OF DEBRIS that-

SHOOTS towards the Shenzhou and-

SKIMS its surface, tearing one of the outer shields.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

The impact is felt inside and a panel falls off. A small smoke

trail is formed around its wires.

Ryan is restrained against her seat by the gravitational force

of the fall and-

EVERYTHING IS SHAKING.

LOWER ATMOSPHERE. 70 KM ABOVE EARTH.

The Shenzhou has left the burning debris behind.

As it touches the lower atmosphere, it immediately COOLS DOWN,

dimming its brightness, surrounded by a purple sky.

It FREEFALLS 9.8 meters per second and-

A PARACHUTE RELEASES.

The long fabric comes out and EXPANDS as the air fills the red

and white canopy. When it's fully open it SLOWS DOWN the cabin's

descent and lets it glide in a diagonal path over the Earth.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

A BREATH OF RELIEF, as through THE PORTHOLE-

She sees the ropes of the parachute extend out to the large

canvas cushioning the fall.

LOWER ATMOSPHERE. 10 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

A SECOND PARACHUTE expands.

It slows the fall even further, shifting the cabin into a more

vertical descent toward the ground that is so close it now seems

tangible.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

Ryan starts COUGHING.

The cabin is quickly filling with SMOKE, and-

The white cloud of smoke overflowing the small space is getting

thicker.

LOWER ATMOSPHERE. 1 KM ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Shenzhou drops, hanging from the parachutes, at a speed of

thirty kilometers per hour.

It is surrounded by a blue sky. It passes through a layer of

clouds.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

She coughs as the white smoke is becoming unbearable. She's

suffocating.

LOWER ATMOSPHERE. 100 METERS ABOVE THE EARTH.

The Shenzhou is rapidly approaching the ground.

It is falling straight toward a lake. Two meters before hitting

THE LANDING ENGINES IGNITE, giving the downward thrust meant to

cushion the landing on a hard surface.

The thrust parts the water, creating a curtain of steam, and the

Shenzhou gently falls down-

INTO THE LAKE-

Making a wave that spreads out in a circle.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

Ryan feels the cabin hit the water. She has landed safely.

But she cannot celebrate because she can't stop coughing. She is

asphyxiating in the thick cloud of smoke.

She UNSTRAPS herself and-

Reaches a LEVER at the side of the hatch.

She PULLS THE LEVER.

ON THE LAKE.

With a small controlled explosion, the hatch cover is launched

away from the cabin.

Smoke pours out through the open hatch.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

She begins to unstrap herself when-

WATER POURS IN through the open hatch.

She tries to make her way out, fighting against the strong

current that is gushing in, but the flow is too strong and-

IT PUSHES HER BACK IN.

She struggles to force her way through the cascade rapidly

filling the cabin, but it is too strong.

THE CABIN IS OVERFLOWING.

The water has reached Ryan's chin when-

She manages to take ONE LAST DEEP BREATH of air before-

WATER COMPLETELY FILLS IT.

The metallic capsule, which weighs almost three tons, sinks

quickly into the lake. As the ropes of the parachute tense, the

long fabric follows the cabin down.

SHENZHOU ESCAPE POD.

Air trapped inside Ryan's suit leaks out through the collar and

small bubbles float up.

Ryan fights her way to the hatch, and pulling with her good arm,

she swims out.

UNDERWATER.

She pushes herself away from the cabin, swimming away from the

THE SHENZHOU HITS THE LAKE BOTTOM.

A dark cloud of mud swells up around it.

Ryan struggles to SWIM UP to the surface, but she can only use

one arm and the wet suit is DRAGGING HER DOWN.

She strokes rapidly, but she isn't moving up. Instead-

SHE'S GOING DOWN, and

HER FEET SINK INTO THE LAKE BED.

She looks up and sees-

The rays of sunlight breaking through the lake's surface are

eclipsed by the parachute, which floats down toward her like a

huge jellyfish about to engulf its pray.

THE FROG crosses in front of her, effortlessly swimming on its

way to the surface.

Small bubbles of air come out of Ryan's nose as she struggles to

open her suit.

She takes off the BOTTOM PART of the suit.

THE PARACHUTE IS GETTING CLOSER, a net about to trap her.

She struggles out of the TOP PART of her suit. And squirming out

from under it-

She frees herself from the heavy garments and SWIMS UP as-

THE SINKING PARACHUTE traps her foot and begins dragging her

down. But with a kick-

SHE SETS HERSELF FREE, and-

SHE SWIMS UP, stroking with her good arm. She is completely out

of breath, only the tiniest bubbles rise from her nose.

She is about to lose consciousness, when she sees-

THE FROG swimming ahead of her, sliding smoothly through the

water toward the rays of sunlight diffracted by the surface.

Ryan's eyes are closed as she floats up, her body limp. The

surface is coming closer and closer.

She reaches the thin boundary between water and air and she come

out to the-

SURFACE.

And she takes an enormous breath.

Almost primal, like the first breath of a newborn child, it

burns her lungs but reclaims life.

She only has enough strength to keep her face above water. She

FLOATS, catching her breath and taking long gulps of air.

She looks up at-

Where the clouds move, caressed by air and light. And beyond

OUTER SPACE, but-

SHE'S BACK ON EARTH.

She turns around, and-

TAKING A DEEP BREATH-

She SWIMS, breaking through the water and harnessing every last

bit of energy in her.

And soon she arrives to the-

SHALLOW EDGE OF THE LAKE

She drags herself from the water, like the first amphibious life

form crawling out of the primordial soup onto land.

COLLAPSES ON THE SHORE.

The water laps gently over her, washing in and out around her

legs.

SHE LIES with her face against the muddy shore and her eyes

closed, recovering her strength.

AND SHE BREATHES.

SHE BREATHES AIR.

And as her breath steadies-

SHE SMILES.

She pushes her face against the ground, enjoying the sense of

weight, and-

SHE OPENS HER EYES.

Then she looks at her surroundings, taking in the almost

unbearable beauty of the planet Earth.

She's breathing deeply and begins to cough.

It's not a cough, it's a chuckle.

RYAN IS CRACKING UP.

Ecstasy overcomes Ryan and-

Joyful laughter fills her body.

SHE IS ALIVE.

She PLANTS HER PALMS against the ground and-

With an effort, she pushes herself up.

SHE FEELS HER WEIGHT, and manages to rise to her hands and knees

like a four-legged mammal.

And she STANDS UP.

ONE FOOT FALLS heavily on the ground. It sinks into the mud and

ANOTHER FOOT.

Ryan's FEET are solidly planted on the mud.

One foot moves forward and lands on more solid ground, unstable,

coping with the weight. And then-

The other foot follows as-

SHE BEGINS TO WALK ON PLANET EARTH, laughing.

SHE IS PUNCH DRUNK.

SHE IS FREE.

