FACE IN ON

THE SURFACE OF THE OCEAN

sunny and placid then slowly WE BEGIN DESCENDING UNDERWATER

Moving down from the bright surface waters, through layers

of fish and marine life...

A school of vibrantly colored fish move with the current,

their numbers are enormous, their movements in unison.

Suddenly out of the darkness a barracuda cuts through the

school, taking out four or five before disappearing into the

shadows.  The school moves on as if nothing happened,

quickly closing ranks where the missing ones swam only

seconds before.

WE MOVE DEEPER AND DEEPER

Fish disappear, darkness envelopes us.  Cold and lifeless

where light has never penetrated...Five thousand feet, ten

thousand.  Deeper, where only strange, self-illuminating

echoniderms move eerily through the currents.  Then suddenly

WE HEAR STATIC from RADIO TRANSMISSION.  THEN VOICES...

Several voices suddenly break into argument..."vegetables?"

"shit," "burgers"...Suddenly another voice rises above the

others.

A pause, then more voices.

A light flares out of the darkness, suddenly illuminating an

IMMENSE SHAPE--fifteen hundred pounds of hardened metal

nearly seven feet tall.  It is a motorized diving suit and

we see the stenciled name, WILLIE across the front

breastplate.  As it pivots we see the stationary worklights

around the base of a large underwater mining operation, THE

SHACK.  Then a woman's voice.

INSIDE THE SHACK/ CONTROL ROOM

littered with papers, half-full coffee cups, and a confusion

of wires and very low-tech, high-tech equipment BECK sits at

the monitor controls.  He is younger than we expected,

twenties, clean cut good looks.  He'll be a hell of a good-

looking man at thirty-five, he just needs to be hardened.

From the looks of the coffee cups around him he's on his

way.

Above him a bank of monitor screens.  Each one labeled with

a crew member's name and providing a video picture from a

camera mounted on their helmet.  Beck reaches above him and

throws a console switch which activates another monitor

labeled ROV.  With a joystick he manipulates an outside

camera(the ROV), its picture we see on the monitor.  It is

moving.

UNDERWATER

WILLIE'S POV  The inside of her helmet is a grid of LED

gauges monitoring air reserve, body temperature,

atmospheres, heart rate, blood pressure.

She stops next to a pair of railroad-like tracks and removes

the tool attached to the end of her arm.  The move is

practiced and professional, like a cook changing the tool on

a set of egg beaters.  First, she inserts the existing tool

into a lock on her opposite arm which holds it while she

disengages the tool.  Next, she selects the next tool from

the storage compartment at her waist and punches it into

position.  Sixpack's voice comes over the radio.

OVER THE RADIO WE HEAR other men's voices laughing.  They

like Willie and cheer her on.  "Tell him, Willie," "Atta

girl," etc...

Willie CLICKS in her last tool and turns.  Expertly she

hooks a large dumpster-like container, the container to what

looks like an underwater parachute--A CONTAINER

TRANSPORTER--which when filled with oxygen it lifts the

massive container onto the tracks where it can be hauled-in

by a winch.

UNDERWATER MACHINERY

Halogen lights illuminate bits and pieces of dredges and

dumpsters squatting in the gloom.  A winch begins grinding

and the big, newly hooked container lurches down the tracks.

It comes to the end where a winch fits it into place with

several others to complete a set.  We hear BECK'S VOICE.

More motor suited DIVERS appear, their helmet lights

glaring.  Their breastplate names catch in the dim lights:

COBS, BOWMAN, WILLIE.

As they approach the UNDERWATER LOCK, where an elevator will

transport them up into the Shack, we see signs of human

life:  a basketball goal attached to the side of the

building; stickers and signs:  "No Bozos," etc.  A formal sign

towers over the entrance.  It says: TRANSOCEAN CORP. SHACK 6.

ON ONE OF THE CREW

He moves behind the others.  Suddenly he freezes in his

tracks and slowly rotates his helmet--on his shoulder in the

glare of his helmet beam WE SEE the a hideous looking SEA

SPIDER.  It's thick legs moving eerily down his arm.

Carefully, so as not to disturb the creature, a mechanical

motor hand moves into position below it, and in one quick

movement, snares it.

CLOSE ON METAL WAIST POCKET.  The latch opens and the

writhing sea spider is shoved inside.  From the pocket WE

MOVE UP the diver's suit until we see the name SIXPACK on

the breastplate.  He looks around to see if anyone has

noticed then continues on toward the shack.

ON TWO DIVERS(JONES AND DEJESUS)

They walk together to the Shack.  A Latino VOICE, DEJESUS,

comes over the radio singing an old Miller Beer jingle in an

exaggerated accent.

INSIDE ON BECK

As he listens to the singing over the tinny speaker, we see

he aches to be a part of their comaraderie, but is alienated

by age and rank.  He is the shack boss, management.  He

listens as a BOOMING BLACK VOICE joins in off-key.

As the singing continues, Beck looks over at an empty chair

in front of a bank of equipment monitors.  The vital signs

of each miner and his equipment are registered on this

console.  The chair in front of them sits conspicuously

empty.  This doesn't please Beck, neither does a hand

written sign under the console which states:  THE DOCTOR IS

DEJESUS' POV

Inside his helmet we see the grid of LED gauges monitoring

vital signs.

Suddenly a red warning light begins blinking in the bottom

corner inside DeJesus' helmet.  The words to the song freeze

in his mouth.  His voice becomes edged with panic.

INSIDE

Beck grabs his microphone.  He tries to remain calm but

there is a definite tremble in his voice.

OUTSIDE

The other divers move quickly to DeJesus.

INSIDE

Beck stands in front of the equipment monitors, lost.

ON THE MINERS, PANICKED

DeJesus' gauges begins a countdown to implosion.  "15, 14,

13..."  DeJesus is grabbed by his co-workers and hurried the

last few yards to the SHACK.

INSIDE/SHACK - SAME

ON BECK  sweating bullets, turns a dial on the instruments

and suddenly, DeJesus' gauges jump to life.  We see the same

countdown in progress on the Shack's gauges!..10, 9, 8...

OUTSIDE

ON DEJESUS  He is forced into the LOCK, the underwater

elevator room is eerily lit.  His readout continues inside

his helmet...5, 4, 3...DeJesus screams.

ON BECK

DeJesus' scream comes over his radio in the control room.

Beck hits the elevator switch--nothing happens.  He hits it

again harder and suddenly DeJesus voice is drowned out by

the SCREAMING VACUUM PUMPS of the elevator.  It's moving!

Beck looks up at the monitor of the interior Lift Lock.

INSIDE/LIFT LOCK

WE SEE DeJESUS'S SUIT dripping wet.  It stands inside the

Lift Lock, ankle deep in greasy bilge water.

CLOSE ON HIS EYES, for a moment they remain closed, then

suddenly they flutter.  He's alive!

THE MESS - LATER

The blackboard prominently displayed on the wall of the Mess

features neatly stenciled letters that say:  "DAYS TILL

PICKUP".  The number scrawled on the chalk-smudged board

obviously changes daily.  Right now, it's a "3"...

A CLUNK, CLUNK and a Coke can rolls out of a compact COKE

MACHINE.  A big, sandy-haired man, SIXPACK, takes the soft

drink, pops the top and downs it in one long pull while he

looks over an arguing group of deep sea miners:  JONES,

Black, athletic, 30's;  COBB, 50's, a career miner with a

mouthful of gum;  BOWMAN, 35, attractive, hardened woman, she

has seen more of the world than any of them;  WILLIE,

twenties, fresh good looks, master electrician, optimist.

DEJESUS, Latino, wiry muscles, he keeps his head down, still

shaken from his experience.

The strain of a month of working two miles beneath the

ocean's surface has drawn nerves tight.

Sixpack looks over the group, then suddenly crushes the

empty Coke can in his hand, punctuating the action with a

huge belch.

DeJesus keeps his head down.

DeJesus springs for Sixpack's throat AS WE CUT TO

BECK - SAME

Beck's eyes are blazing with cold authority as he speaks.

Beck glares, ready for an argument, but as WE PULL BACK we

see he's talking to the mirror, in his tiny quarters.

Apparently he fails to convince himself because his hard

look fades and he mutters unhappily as he turns away.

He turns around to face a smiling picture of himself at

college graduation with his Eastern establishment looking

father.  Leadership "how-to" books like

underwater mining.

He opens his door to leave when SUDDENLY A LOUD METALLIC

GROANING NOISE stops him cold.  The entire Shack seems

shifting, like a giant waking from a nap.

MESS

The NOISE stops the fight between DeJesus and Sixpack cold.

All eyes go to the ceiling and walls.

Just as suddenly as it began the GROANING NOISE STOPS and in

its place WE HEAR an intermittent RATTLE in the air system.

Only Cobb seems undisturbed by this sound.

Cobb looks up disgustingly.

Everyone laughs but Cobb, WE SEE he's serious.

LOWER RING CORRIDOR

Beck approaches the Mess and as he nears it we hear Cobb

ranting inside.

BECK hesitates at the door to the Mess, as though screwing

up his courage, then takes a deep breath and enters as we

INSIDE THE MESS

Everyone looks up as Beck enters and the room goes quiet.

Beck notices Doc's empty chair.

Looks are exchanged.  Sixpack smirks knowingly.

He cracks up and Beck turns on him.

Sixpack shuts up, but Beck notices the others feel the

seriousness of Doc's absence during the emergency.

Beck gets his tray but it is clear he is thinking about

something else.  He clears his throat.

FIVE FACES STARE AT BECK.  THEY'RE LOOKING FOR WEAKNESS.

THIS IS A CHALLENGE TO HIS AUTHORITY.

This leaves the group momentarily speechless.  Even DeJesus

comes out of his stupor.

Beck nods.  Cobb eyes him suspiciously.

The others look around for agreement but Jones doesn't need

anyone else's approval, he's already made up his mind.

Bowman nods her head also and the others unanimously agree.

Buoyed, Beck moves ahead, businesslike...

Sixpack suddenly looks up as the group disperses.

LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

ON BECK  He starts out of the Mess and by chance finds

himself walking with Willie.  Beck is obviously

uncomfortable with the crew, even after 28 days together.

She smiles, friendly, at ease.

She turns off toward the Swamp, leaving Beck with the tiny,

but honest compliment.  He savors it.

THE SWAMP - LATER

The "Swamp" (where DeJesus came up), is ankle deep in greasy

bilgewater.  The door slides open, Willie enters, and

switches on a bank of fluorescent lights.  The room is

spooky even with the lights.  The giant machine suits, we

saw earlier outside, hang from racks like sleeping monsters.

Willie straps on a utility belt and checks her tools--a

motorized screwdriver, a power wrench, a long-necked,

laser-tipped soldering iron(looks like a long-necked

screwdriver)--then splashes through the bilge water to the

control switch and hits the START button.

NNNNNNNNNN.  A motor moves one of the suits along the track

toward Willie.  As it turns the corner toward us we see it

says:  DEJESUS.

DOC'S OFFICE - SAME

Beck opens the door to Doc's quarters and we see Doc putting

on a fresh shirt.  A man in his 50's, he must have once been

quite handsome and intelligent, but has now gone to seed.

Beck looks on the cabinet and sees a bottle of Old Granddad

Whiskey.  He picks it up.

Beck doesn't smile.  He puts the bottle back down and Doc

watches him in the mirror.

The Doc stops buttoning his shirt and locks eyes with Beck.

Beck definitely has something to say, but confronted, he

falters.

Doc smiles, and goes back to buttoning his shirt.

THE DORMITORY - SAME

Small but functional.  The bunks can be closed-off with a

privacy door.  Photographs and bumper stickers on the walls

of the bunks provide the only personal touches in an

otherwise sterile environment.

Willie's bunk is wallpapered in detailed interplanetary

maps;  Sixpack's privacy door has a bumper sticker which

proclaims:  "I MAY BE FAT, BUT YOU'RE UGLY AND I CAN DIET."

DeJesus' has posters of the Alps, and the Rockies;  Bowman's

has clipped pages from "Gourmet" of meals she dreams for;

Cobb's has nothing, as if perfectly content to be where he

is instead of somewhere else.  Inside Jones' bunk is an

indoor basketball goal.

Bowman and Sixpack scrub down the walls of the dorm with a

sponge and pail.  Sixpack pauses and smirks, his eyes on

Bowman's chest.

CORRIDOR "A" - SAME

Jones and Cobb are kneeling in a corridor, unfastening a big

plate on the floor with a power wrench.  Overhead a huge

plexiglass conduit flows with water from the desalinization

system.  The interior wall of the corridor is meshed wire

exposing the throbbing machine floor of the Shack.

Cobb removes the last bolt and Jones lifts off the

floorplate exposing the guts of the shack--the BILGE--dark

and wet.  Without the plate the RATTLE in the air system is

much louder and sinister.

He pulls a retractable ladder from inside the hole and drops

it down into the wet darkness, without hesitating he climbs

down, stopping at the bottom to look up at Jones.  Jones

seems in no hurry to accompany him.

Jones reluctantly starts down after him.

BECK'S QUARTERS - SAME

Beck in his quarters.  He seems to be talking to himself but

as we move around him we see he is talking to a video

monitor.  On screen we see MARTIN, 30's, a slick

bureaucratic executive with TransOcean Corp. whose face is

all we see on the video monitor.

Beck stops.  Martin notices his concern.

He stares hard at Beck, but doesn't wait for an answer.

CLOSE ON A BOOM BOX/ LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

The boom box sitting on a wall pipe is blaring John Denver's

DeJesus is singing along loudly in his thick accent as he

works on the intercom system.  He finishes, closing a metal

box which says:  ONBOARD COMMUNICATIONS.

SWAMP - SAME

ON WILLIE  She has connected DeJesus' suit to the diagnostic

computer and is going through the computerized

checkpoints--an electronic list of literally hundreds of

possible problems.

Suddenly, the computer pauses on one:  It says:  Electrical

Short.

She types in a "help" command and the computer screen

displays an electrical circuit pattern that would leave most

Electrical Engineers baffled.  Willie hardly bats an eye.

She immediately opens the circuit panel on DeJesus' suit and

pulls the laser soldering iron out of her tool belt.  With

two quick spot welds she repairs the short, then replaces

the panel.  Finished, Willie presses the control switch and

the suits begin to move along the track.  A new suit rounds

the corner toward us.  It says SIXPACK.

THE BILGE - SAME

The walls are dark and moist.  Water drips from the pipes.

The rattle in the air system continues loudly as Jones leans

over and hands Cobb another tool.  Crouched in the humming

machinery, Cobb spits his wad of chewing gum into a greasy

hand, kneads it a couple of times, then grins at Jones.

THE SWAMP - SAME

The monotonous clatter of the air system is the only sound

in the gloomy SWAMP as the huge suit labeled SIXPACK stops

directly in front of Willie.  She reaches up to open the

pocket latch when she stops...listening.  THE NOISE IN THE

AIR SYSTEM HAS STOPPED.

THE BILGE - SAME

Jones looks incredulously at Cobb.  He can't believe that's

all it took.  Cobb starts gathering up the tools.

THE SWAMP - SAME

In the gloomy silence, Willie reaches for the hinged pocket

in the waist of Sixpack's suit.  Some water drips out.  She

pushes the spring a second time.  The pocket opens.

Nothing.

SUDDENLY THE HIDEOUS SEA SPIDER SPRINGS OUT onto the

workbench where it wriggles grotesquely toward Willie.  She

backs away and it drops into the water at her feet.

THE DORMITORY

Bowman looks at DeJesus who comes to the door, then to

Sixpack who convulses with laughter against the bulkhead.

ON BECK

He hesitates then presses the TALK button on the intercom.

SWAMP

Willie watches the Sea Spider move in the water toward her

as Beck's words come over the P.A.  Ignoring Beck she

watches the spider right as it moves to her feet then brings

the soldering iron down into the water with a LOUD HISS

skewering it.  She presses the intercom button and lifts the

skewered sea spider out of the water.

THE MESS - LATER

BOWMAN sits at a portable computer terminal and watches

stock prices scroll across the screen.  Every so often she

freezes a stock and types the command:  INFO.  The screen

immediately changes to a financial report of the company in

question as if prepared by a broker.  In a matter of seconds

Bowman can learn all the major aspects of the company.

Across the room from her, Willie exercises with dumbbells

while she studies an astronaut training manual.  She looks up

at Bowman.

This causes Bowman to turn and look at Willie.

Bowman shakes her head and goes back to the computer and

types in TransOcean Corp.

DORMITORY

ON COBB  He lies on his bunk under a sunlamp, but wears a

T-shirt and long pants.  DeJesus does a jigsaw puzzle of a

snow covered Swiss mountain scene.

He looks up and sees Cobb's sunbathing attire and laughs.

MESS - SAME

COMPUTER SCREEN  The report appears on screen with a

capsulized history of the TransOcean company, its philosophy

and growth plans and most current financial report.  A final

column called "insider tips" says:

Willie looks at Bowman a moment, then keeps exercising.

They look up to see Sixpack at the door to the Mess wearing

only a robe.  With a leer he stares at Willie exercising.

Willie doesn't bite, she looks hard at Sixpack.

Sixpack smirks.  He waves a copy of Penthouse opened to the

Pet of the Month and sings cheerfully.

CLANK, BANK, CLUNK.  A coke can tumbles noisily from the

Coke machine.  Jones retrieves two cans of Coke and comes

out of the Galley with a snack.  He stops in front of

Bowman and the computer.

They grin at each other--a standing joke and Jones leaves.

DORMITORY

Jones enters the Dorm with his snack and tosses a can of

Coke across the room to DeJesus.

DEJESUS catches the can and pops the top sending a shower of

carbonation all over Cobb under the sunlamp.

Cobb wipes the Coke from his sunglasses and shakes his head.

Jones and DeJesus laugh and take long pulls on their Cokes.

Cobb turns and watches them.  This is obviously a nightly

ritual.

INT. SIXPACK'S BUNK - SAME

CLOSE ON  The Pet of the Month as she smirks coyly from the

centerfold, her body twisted into an awkward position

representing mad desire.

Sixpack closes his privacy door then smirks back at the

photo.

He stirs in the bed and adjusts his pillow and SCREAMS!  The

SEA SPIDER is suddenly right there on his shoulder, dead.

Sixpack sits bolt upright in his bunk and slams his head

against the roof of the bunk, then stumbles out screaming.

He hits the floor and rams his foot into a table and screams

in more pain.

The whole dorm looks up amazed, Cobb takes off his

sunglasses, even Jones and DeJesus temporarily "sober up" to

stare.

MESS

Sixpack storms into the Mess with the dead Sea Spider.  He

points angrily at his bleeding foot.  Jones and DeJesus move

up to watch.

Everyone laughs, but Sixpack.  He has revenge in his eyes.

He holds out the ugly, limp creature and advances toward

Willie.

As he pushes the dead creature into her face BECK'S VOICE

behind him makes him freeze.

Everybody turns to see Beck standing in the doorway.

CLOSE ON BLACKBOARD/ MESS - MORNING

SCREECH!  Chalk on the blackboard as Bowman writes "2" in

place of yesterday's "3" over the neatly lettered words

"Days Till Pickup."

Jones, sitting next to Cobb, looks up from his tray of

cereal and holds his head in mock misery.

DeJesus enters holding his head and sits on the other side

of Cobb.

Cobb looks from one man to the other, realizing what they're

doing.

UNDERWATER - SAME

CLOSE ON  A whirling cylinder tool we see is attached to the

end of Willie's mechanical suit arm.  Like a drill its

diamond bits cut into the rock outcrop to take a core

sample.  It's a sinister hand-attachment, something Captain

Hook would have loved.

Above her the ROV maneuvers into position for a better view.

INSIDE THE SHACK CONTROL - SAME

Beck is in the control station, staring at the video

monitors--the image from the ROV.  Willie removes a slender

instrument, like a bicycle pump and with a quick pump

motion, CHUNK, CHUNK...activates an explosive charge.  She

puts it into the hole she made with the drill and backs off.

Like a good dog, the ROV follows her to a safe position.

ON MONITOR  THE CAMERA HOLDS ON THE SPOT.  SUDDENLY THE

GROUND SHAKES VIOLENTLY ON THE MONITOR SCREEN--A MINI

EARTHQUAKE CHARGE.

WILLIE RETURNS TO THE SITE OF THE CHARGE AND REINSERTS HER

DRILL, EASILY REMOVING A TEST SAMPLE.

Willie holds out the sample to the ROV so Beck can see

inside.

INT. CONTROL ROOM/ CLOSE ON BECK'S ROV MONITOR

He stares at the image on the screen.

OUTSIDE

There is no answer.  Willie turns around.  Her helmet lamp

eerily illuminating the darkness around her.  Sixpack is

nowhere to be seen.

She turns in the other direction and suddenly blinding

lights are turned on.

Sixpack laughs.  His lights now on, he stands right behind

her.

She again holds out her hand to the ROV.

INSIDE SHACK

Beck looks at the monitor and presses a red button to start

the tape, then after five seconds releases the button.

WILLIE AND SIXPACK MOVING

Suddenly Sixpack's foot hits some loose rock and slides.

Willie turns in his direction and sees his headlight

turning, becoming smaller, then disappearing as his radio

goes dead.

INSIDE ON BECK

UNDERWATER

ON WILLIE  She has stopped in her tracks.  All around her is

blackness.  Her helmet light hardly penetrates the darkness.

Then she looks down--a cliff right in front of her feet.

The drop is thirty feet into a waving sea of tubers.

BECK'S VOICE brings Willie back.

MESS

Jones is bench pressing 200 pounds on a fold-down compact

gym, while DeJesus huffs and puffs on an exercise bike.

Jones grits his teeth and struggles against the weight,

suddenly Bowman throws open the door and sticks her head in.

CORRIDOR - MOMENTS LATER

Bowman, Jones and DeJesus are heading for the control room

where they are joined by Cobb.

They all enter the

CONTROL ROOM

Beck is at the console with Doc in his chair.

WILLIE'S VOICE silences them.

They all stare at the monitor.  The screen is filled with

huge waving tubers.

UNDERWATER

ON WILLIE  She moves through the dense waving forest of

giant tubers, parting them with her hands as she moves

slowly.

CONTROL ROOM

ON WILLIE

She moves aside the last of the tubers and freezes at the

sight in front of her.

INSIDE

All eyes suddenly go to the monitor.  A huge dark maw fills

the screen.

The image on the screen widens and we see the opening is a

huge gash in the side of a sunken ship.

CLOSE ON THE MONITOR:  The picture zooms in on the corner

and Willie's added light suddenly brings the letter "M" into

focus.

Beck presses the red record button and pans the ROV slowly

across the bulkhead of the ship.  The next letter is an "A".

Then suddenly a Cyrillic letter appears, then others.

WILLIE'S POV

Her life-support gauges move eerily around the perimeter of

her mask.  She moves along steadily down darkened corridors.

She opens a door and it drops from its corroded hinges--a

cloud of sludge rises off the bottom.  The room looks empty.

She throws open another door.  It also looks empty, then

WHAM! a grotesque ECHONODERM slams into her helmet.  Willie

bats it aside and as soon as she recovers shines her light

into the room.

WHAT SHE SEES:  The ship's infirmary.  Broken glass,

stainless steel...the light does strange things, reflecting,

sparkling...

Her helmet-mounted camera pans the room one more time, then

as she turns to leave it captures a strange gleam of white

in the corner--A LARGE HUMAN-LIKE SKELETON.  Willie doesn't

see it.

INT. THE CONTROL ROOM

CLOSE ON DOC  He stares at the monitor screen.  Did he see

something or were his eyes playing tricks?  He looks across

the console and sees the videotape is recording.

UNDERWATER

ON WILLIE  She moves to the end of the hall.  It ends with

two doors.

Willie hesitates at the junction and PUSHES OPEN the door on

her left, SOMETHING HUGE BEHIND IT MOVES--IT'S SIXPACK.  His

mechanical arms suddenly rise and in their grasp we see the

ship's huge safe.

THE SWAMP - LATER

The door to the Russian ship's safe stands open.  BANG!

BANG!  Jones and DeJesus hammer safety deposit boxes with a

chisel.  While the others watch, Sixpack pleads his case

with Beck.

DeJesus pries off the top from the first safety deposit box

and dumps the contents on the workbench...several wallets,

wristwatches, a pocket watch, a wedding ring...Bowman who

stands with a clipboard begins taking inventory.

She picks up something else, a pack of soggy chewing gum and

tosses it to Cobb.

Jones opens the next box and dumps it out onto the

table...Life Savers candy, a postcard of a fat Russian woman

in a bathing suit.  Bowman looks at it.

Everyone chuckles.  More papers and a small, book-shaped

object wrapped in plastic.  Jones unwraps it.  It's a video

tape.  He looks at the label.

Jones hands it to Doc who looks at it.

Jones pries the lid off another box and dumps it

out--Papers, more cheap watches.

ON SIXPACK  He notices something silver, the size of a

paperback book, under a stack of papers.  Discreetly he

covers the object with a piece of paper and slides it off

the table out of sight.

Jones opens the last box, and something rolls across the

table toward the edge and starts to drop when it is caught

by DeJesus.  He holds it up and we see--a clear liquor

bottle.

Doc turns the bottle around in DeJesus' hand so he can read

the label.

Everyone looks at Doc.

Cobb stares at him a second then:

Beck ignores them and addresses Bowman.

He lifts the bottle of Stolie out of DeJesus' hands.

A disappointed crew watches Beck leave with the bottle.  Doc

stops him.

RING CORRIDOR - LATER

The gloomy corridor outside the Infirmary.  It is empty,

silent.  Suddenly the door to the Infirmary opens slightly

and Bowman peeks out.  Seeing the corridor is empty she

slips out with a a manila folder.

DORMITORY - SAME

Bowman hands the envelope to DeJesus, who's grinning

delightedly.

Sixpack and Jones are there too.  Sixpack scowls.

CONTROL ROOM - LATER

CLOSE ON MONITOR SCREEN

We see a thin, bearded man in his late fifties, a RUSSIAN

SHIP'S CAPTAIN talking to the camera in Russian.  The tape

is of poor quality and water spotted.

Suddenly, the captain hears a noise off-screen and goes to

the camera and turns it off.  The tape goes blank.

ON DOC

He stops the tape and presses another button on the console.

WILLIE'S VIDEO of the huge hole in the hull of the ship

appears on another screen.

He looks back at Beck who we see is sitting behind him, and

has also been watching the tape.  Beck looks at Doc and

shrugs.

He gets up and goes to the door.  Doc watches him.

Beck stops.  This is a mystery.

CLOSE ON COMBINATION LOCK/ BECK'S QUARTERS - SAME

Fingers fiddle with the combination.  He pulls on the

handle.  The safe doesn't budge.

We pull back to see that DeJesus is alone in Beck's darkened

quarters, he talks to the P.A.  Suddenly we hear BOWMAN'S

VOICE over the intercom.

DeJesus puts his fingers back, on the safe dial.

INTERCUT WITH BOWMAN IN DORM.

CONTROL ROOM - SAME

ON Beck at the door and Doc.

Beck looks at him.  It is obvious that he doesn't trust Doc,

with the vodka, but he's diplomatic.

UPPER RING CORRIDOR

ON COBB  Standing watch for DeJesus.  Suddenly the door to

the Control room opens and Beck walks out.  Cobb grabs a

walkie-talkie.

BECK'S QUARTERS/ ON DEJESUS

He hears Cobb and freezes.  He looks around--the cramped

quarters don't offer much in the way of hiding places.

INTERCUT WITH BOWMAN AND OTHERS IN DORMATORY

They react similarly to the sound of Cobb on the P.A.

ON COBB AND BECK/ CORRIDOR

Beck stops outside his door and sees Cobb.

Cobb smiles, he can't believe his luck, then Beck holds up

the videotape.

Before Cobb can react Beck opens the door to his quarters

and steps inside.

BECK'S QUARTERS  WE SEE no sign of DeJesus.  Cobb follows

into the room, looking carefully around for sign of DeJesus.

In the mirror to Beck's bathroom, Cobb spots DeJesus

pressing against the wall.  Cobb suddenly starts to sweat

bullets.  Beck quickly unlocks the safe, opens it, and puts

the videotape

We see Cobb's reaction.  Beck turns.

Cobb shakes his head weakly and starts to follow Beck out,

he sneaks a look back at DeJesus in the shadows who gives

him a thumbs up.

MESS - LATER

Five specimen cups filled with vodka.  Bowman takes hers and

looks at it questioningly.  Cobb watches the door for signs

of the officers.

Willie shakes her head.

He holds up a plastic IV bag filled with clear liquid.

Cobb, Jones, DeJesus, Bowman, and Sixpack grin and clink

glasses, then knock back their vodka.  Afterwards we get

their reactions.

JONES:  Looks concerned.

BOWMAN:  Shakes her head, something's wrong.

DEJESUS:  Can't get the taste off his tongue.

COBB:  Seems totally satisfied.

SIXPACK:  who has held the liquid in his mouth savoring it,

suddenly spits the vodka out.

Willie grins at her co-workers and Beck's move and jogs out

into the corridor.  Sixpack disgustedly tosses his shot

glass away and leaves.

The others put down their glasses disappointedly except

Bowman.  She watches Sixpack.

DORMITORY

SIXPACK'S BUNK  He closes his privacy door and hesitates as

if listening for the others, then he removes a silver flask

with Cyrillic lettering--the silver object he palmed in the

Swamp--and smiles as he takes a long pull.  Suddenly WHAM!

The Privacy door to Sixpack's bunk is slammed open.

Startled he turns startled to see--BOWMAN.

She holds out her glass.  Sixpack looks around the Dorm,

it's empty, then grins sheepishly and pours her a shot.

CORRIDOR "B"

ON WILLIE  She is jogging through the corridors.  Suddenly

there is a GREAT GROANING NOISE.  Willie stops and looks

through the steel mesh wall into the machine floor.  The

dark shapes of the machines move monstrously in the dim

light.  The GROANING ends and she jogs on to the Swamp.

As she passes the door she notices the light and stops.  Beck

stands with a clipboard by an equipment cabinet filled with

the parachute-like Container Transporters we saw outside.

He sees her.

She moves into the Swamp and goes to the Lift Lock, stopping

under one of the ladders she leaps up and grabs a metal rung

above her and begins doing her chin-ups as Beck watches her

lean body easily doing the exercises.

Beck tries to concentrate on his inventory, but continues to

watch Willie's sexy, athletic body.

Beck shrugs.

Beck looks up and they lock eyes.

Beck looks up from his clipboard and smiles.

INT. MESS/ BLACKBOARD - MORNING

SCREECH!  The chalk shrieks across the blackboard, making a

"1" over the words "Days Till Pickup."

Jones looks up from his cereal at Bowman, the culprit with

the chalk.

INT. DORMITORY - SAME

DeJesus puts on his wet suit which goes under his large

mechanical suit and gets ready to join the others in the

mess.  He notices Sixpack's privacy door is still closed and

bangs on it.

There is no answer.  Carefully he opens the door and is

surprised to find it empty.

INT. INFIRMARY - SAME

CLOSE ON Sixpack's eye.  We pull back to see it is being

examined by Doc who frowns.

Sixpack obliges as Beck enters.

Sixpack pulls off his shirt.  Doc frowns in surprise.

WHAT HE SEES:  SIXPACK'S TORSO  There are strange black

areas, each of them an inch in diameter.

Doc peers closely at the skin where it's discolored.  It's a

different texture.  Beck watches as Doc touches a spot and

Sixpack screams in agony.  Doc and Beck lock eyes.

BECK'S QUARTERS - SAME

CLOSE ON MARTIN on Beck's video monitor.  He is drinking a

cup of coffee.

Beck interrupts impatiently.

THE SWAMP - MORNING

The crew members climb into their suits.

Suddenly all eyes go to the door, Beck enters.

The crew increases its bitching...

Beck ignores them and goes to the control rack which sends

the suits around the room and pushes number 8--his suit.

DeJesus and Jones share a look.  Bowman and Willie watch him

carefully.  As Beck's suit stops in front of him the room is

quiet, they can't believe their eyes.  Awkwardly, Beck

tries to get into his suit.  Cobb breaks the silence.

Beck sees he's sincere, then looks at the others and Willie.

She nods slightly.  Beck turns back to Cobb.

INT. THE INFIRMARY - SAME

Doc and Sixpack.  Doc takes a blood sample, seals it and

opens a cabinet under the sink where a supply of blood is

stored in a refrigerated unit.  The plastic bags of blood

are labeled with the various crew members' names.

Sixpack watches him from the examination table.  He is

shivering violently and scared.

We see a change in Doc's demeanor.  He is suddenly needed

and it has touched something in him and we see him rising to

the challenge.

Skillfully Doc takes a skin sample.  Sixpack screams.

VIEW THROUGH THE MICROSCOPE

An enlarged view of the cells in alarmingly hyperactivity.

We see it literally spreading before our eyes.

ON DOC

He leans back from the microscope.  There is awe on his face

for the first time since first year medical studies--and

there is fear of the unknown.  He looks over his shoulder at

Sixpack, his shivering has stopped, he lies still on the

table.

UNDERWATER

Lights move in the blackness, but there is an order to the

actions and a crispness to the voices.  People doing work

that is moving sharply.  Pride in what they're doing.

The Container transporters fill with compressed air and lift

the container as the miners guide it to the track...

INT. INFIRMARY/ SHACK - SAME

Doc is at the console of his computer.  As words appear on

the screen, obviously in response to his query...

"...would appear to indicate a virus of unknown origin..."

Doc shakes his head disgustedly.

ON SCREEN

More words come up.  "...no idea..."

He finishes typing and waits for an answer.  The cursor

flashes the word "PROCESSING".  Then an answer comes up.

"Genetic Alteration?"  The words send a chill down Doc's

spine.

SWAMP ROOM - LATER

The mood is happy.  Like a high school football locker room

after a winning game.  DeJesus climbs out of his suit and

slaps Beck on the shoulder.

Beck, obviously pleased, looks at the others.  Jones sums up

the feelings of the entire group.

Beck's grin suddenly disappears at the sight of a flashing

red light over the intercom.

INFIRMARY - LATER

Beck is standing in the doorway of the Infirmary, glaring at

Doc, who sits with his bottle of Old Granddad.

Doc looks at Beck wearily and hands him a mask.

Beck hesitates, then puts on the mask.

SICK ROOM

As Beck enters, masked, Sixpack's back is to him under the

sheets.  Slowly he pulls back the sheet and recoils from the

sight.  The black splotches have nearly all grown together.

His fingers have lengthened and become more webbed.  Most

dramatically the sores on the sides of his neck have become

flared and elongated.  Though not bleeding, the open veins

are visible.

INFIRMARY

Doc pours some bourbon in a glass, and takes a sip.  Beck

enters dazed from the sick room and their eyes meet.

He starts to the door and Doc watches him.

INT. THE MESS - SAME

The mess is quiet.  All eyes are down.  Sixpack's absence is

noticeable.

Bowman suddenly becomes pale.

She gets up from the table and dashes for the toilet.

INT. SHOWER ROOM - LATER

EXAMINATION SEQUENCE

CLOSE ON WHITE SKIN/(COBB)

Pale skin, fishbelly white with white hairs, seen closely...

Doc is scrutinizing Cobb's flabby body closely.  They're

alone in the shower room.  Stainless steel, and mirrors.  Doc

stops and checks a place on Cobb more closely.

Doc peers closely, satisfies himself that it's nothing.

DARK SKIN/ PORES  Black skin, seen very close, the pores

appearing like craters.

We're looking at Jones' naked body...rippling muscles.

INT. SHOWER ROOM/ SMOOTH SKIN - LATER

Firm, lovely breasts, smooth skin...

Doc turns Willie around and examines her firm naked

buttocks.

Doc turns away to let her dress.

SHOWER ROOM/ TAN SKIN

DeJesus' body is being examined...tan skin, wiry muscles

seen very close.  As we move along the skin, it seems every

moment as if the next instant will reveal a dread blemish...

DeJesus, naked, with his back to us.  Doc examines him.

DeJesus chuckles, but something about the thought stops Doc.

CONTROL ROOM - SAME

Beck sits in his chair reading the TRANSOCEAN OFFICERS

INSTRUCTIONAL MANUAL.

INSERT:  The chapter he's on says:  BODY DISPOSAL AT SEA.

The face of Martin stares back at us.

He picks up a sheet of computer paper.

WASHROOM - SAME

Willie enters the room with several sinks and a couple of

toilet stalls.  She approaches one of the sinks and pulls a

toothbrush from the pocket of her robe.

Just then she hears a retching sound from one of the stalls.

INFIRMARY - SAME

Willie and Jones help Bowman into the Infirmary.  She is

weak from nausea.  They help her onto the examination table

and look around for Doc.  Jones sees a light on in the Sick

Room.

SICK ROOK - SAME

Sixpack's body lies under a sheet in the Sick room.  The

door opens and Jones looks in, sees Sixpack but in the dim

light, doesn't realize the sheet covering him, covers the

body totally.  Jones smiles.

There is no answer and Jones slowly approaches the body.

He is almost to the table and reaches out to touch Sixpack

when suddenly the body stirs.  Sixpack's foot moves slightly

under the sheet as if shifting in his sleep.  Jones stops.

INFIRMARY - SAME

Jones returns to the examination room.  Bowman is now

undressed and under the blankets on the examination table.

They leave Bowman GROANING on the examination table and head

back to the main corridor.  As they leave WE HOLD ON the

door to the sick room behind Bowman.

Bowman writhes on the examination table in pain.  Carefully

she climbs off the table and goes behind a partition to

throw up.

CLOSE ON BOWMAN

At the sink in the infirmary.  She rinses her face in the

sink and pulls back her hair, suddenly she stops and brings

her hands in front of her face.

INSERT HER HANDS.  Huge clumps of hair have come out in her

hands.  And then she sees her hands themselves.  Scaly.

She turns and looks at the light on in the Sick Room.  Slowly

she goes to the door and enters.

SICK ROOM

Bowman approaches the body of Sixpack.

No answer.  She pulls back the sheet and gasps.

CONTROL ROOM - SAME

ON BECK AND DOC.

Jones enters.

Jones looks from one officer to the other then grins.

LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

Beck hits the floor off the ladder and rushes to the

Infirmary with Jones.  He opens the door and freezes.

WHAT HE SEES:  The examination table where Jones left her is

empty.  The room deserted.

DOC comes up behind them, then turns.  He hears to a HISSING

SOUND down the ring corridor.  He turns from the others and

moves slowly toward the noise.

SHOWER ROOM

Doc enters the shower room, full of steam and the SOUND OF

WATER.

There is no answer and he moves toward the shower.

The water continues to run.  No answer.  Carefully, Doc

opens the shower door.

WHAT HE SEES:  Bowman.  Dead.  Her wrists have been cut and

blood swirls down the drain.

Doc sadly squats down beside her.  The death effects him

greatly.  He feels helpless, then suddenly his eyes widen

and he carefully reaches out and takes Bowman's limp arm,

turning it supine.  There, running the length of the arm, WE

SEE the black scales.

INFIRMARY

Jones and Beck lay Bowman's body carefully onto the

examination table in the infirmary.  Through the Sick Room

door we see the sheet shrouded body of Sixpack.  Doc covers

Bowman with a sheet as

THE MESS - LATER

The remaining crew, Doc, and Beck assembled in the Mess.

Doc sits quietly, almost in a daze.

ON WILLIE  the news hits her hard.

Their argument is suddenly cut short by a NOISE from the

corridor.  A THUMP!  The crew stops their grumbling and

listens.  A moment later we hear another THUMP!  Beck looks

at Jones.

RING CORRIDOR

Beck leads the way slowly toward the Infirmary where the

sound is coming from.  Outside the door they hear it once

more.  THUMP!

Carefully he enters the Infirmary and WE SEE the

examination table is empty!  Beck goes to the Sick room and

stops in the doorway.  Jones moves behind him and his eyes

suddenly widen.

WHAT THEY SEE:  Both bodies now are in a motionless, hideous

conglomeration on the the table.

CLOSE ON HEAVY ZIPPER

ZZZZZZZZZZZZZZ.  It is quickly pulled shut, running the

length of a heavy plastic bag, closing both bodies inside.

INT. CORRIDOR "B" - LATER

Dressed in their rubber latex suits Cobb, Jones, DeJesus,

Beck, and Willie carry the body of Sixpack and Bowman in the

zippered bodybag.  Now, well over three hundred pounds, the

bodies strange shape and dead weight make it difficult to

transport.

Before Jones can argue, Beck cuts them off.

The group turns into the Swamp where Doc waits for them by

the Lift Lock.  Rounding the corner Cobb bangs into the side

of a bulkhead and drops his corner of the "package."  Like

dominoes, Willie also looses her grip, then DeJesus.  The

bodybag splashes into the grimy bilge water making it even

harder for everyone to get a handhold.

The group struggles to raise the bodybag and just get it to

their shoulder when suddenly we go tight on DeJesus's face.

Cobb drops his end intentionally and he kneels looking for

the zipper.

But Cobb grabs the zipper and starts to unzip the heavy bag.

Beck tries to stop him when suddenly, WHAM!  a DARK

APPENDAGE RIPS through the zipper and flails like a

pressurized firehose.  It beats wildly for several second,

then lashes out at Cobb--ripping a gash on his forearm.

While Cobb screams in pain, Beck yanks the appendage off

Cobb's arm revealing a mouth full of needlesharp teeth and a

sharp tongue-like proboscis which has stabbed Cobb like a

dagger.

While Beck and Willie wrestle the strong flopping appendage,

Doc rushes to the Lift Lock.

DeJesus and Jones struggle to force the lurching bodybag

into the Lift Lock.

The bodybag shudders like a huge cocoon about to lose its

occupant.  Jones digs his shoulder down into the task just

as the bag suddenly RIPS in several places.  A tear RIPS

OPEN next to Jones' head revealing the head of BOWMAN, her

vacant eyes only inches from Jones' face.

Suddenly a WHINING NOISE sounds behind them.  Beck looks

back to see Cobb approaching with a battery operated

underwater chain saw.  He's clearly intending to cut the

Creature with the whirring blade.

DeJesus turns to block Cobb while the others continue to

wrestle the bodybag into the Lift Lock.  The bag suddenly

splits and a scaly arm protrudes.  It reaches out grabbing

DeJesus.  Beck pulls him free and yells.

Doc hits the lever.  The elevator doesn't move!

RRRRRRIIIIIPPP!  A scaly leg rips out of the body bag!

Doc hits the elevator switch again, harder.

NNNNNNN!  The Lift Lock door whines closed and a horrifying

SCREAM rises from the Lock.

CLOSE ON THE LIFT LOCK

The end of the appendage is severed in the closing door,

disappearing unseen into the greasy bilge water.

Doc flips a switch and the SCREAM OF THE VACUUM PUMPS drown

out the SCREAM in the Lift Lock, the wails of Cobb, and the

splashing sounds of the severed three-foot section of gory

muscle which slip silently and undetected under the

workbench.

A second later the elevator returns empty, silent,

bloodstained.

Beck turns on the video monitor of the exterior Lock.  The

exterior worklights illuminate millions of bubbles from the

flush and the struggling movements of the bodybag before it

grows still once again and disappears beyond the range of

the Shack lights...into the darkness.

Beck turns and looks at his savaged crew.  Willie, Jones,

DeJesus, Doc look like wet-suited butchers.  Splattered in

blood, numbed by the experience, they are brought together

by having simply survived.  Jones holds up Willie.  DeJesus

leans against the bulkhead.  In the far corner Cobb sobs

quietly.

SHOWERS - LATER

Clouds of steam.  Vaguely seen through the steam, Willie is

scrubbing herself almost desperately, as though the

spattered blood of the creature had penetrated into her

skin.  Finally she gives up almost in tears and rests her

head against the wall of the shower stall.

DORMITORY - SAME

Beck and Jones open the privacy door to Sixpack's bunk.

After some digging which produces five month's supply of

pornography, the empty flask clatters to the floor.  Beck

picks it up.

MESS - LATER

Cobb pours himself a cup of coffee with a shaky hand.  Jones,

and DeJesus sit at a table and Willie laces up her shoes for

a run.  There is a feeling of anger among them.

Willie finishes tying up her shoes and looks at them all

coldly.

She gets up and walks out into the Ring corridor.

THE RUSSIAN SHIP

WE ARE MOVING along the ship's corridor that Willie walked

looking for Sixpack.

WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL WE ARE WATCHING A VIDEO SCREEN IN THE

CONTROL ROOM

Doc and Beck replay the tape of Willie's search for Sixpack

on the Russian ship.  On the monitor screen we see Willie's

POV of the infirmary.  The light dances off the broken glass

as she turns, then the flash of white we saw before as the

light moves out into the corridor.

Beck rewinds it.

ON SCREEN  we see the scene again.  Light dancing off the

cabinets.  As the light starts to turn--

Beck pauses the tape.  We see nothing. Doc is confused.

Beck does and we watch Doc's face as he stares intently at

the screen.  Suddenly he sees it.

ON SCREEN  We see it.  Caught in the turn of the camera, now

frozen on the screen is the clear gleaming skeletal remains

of a man.  Only it is clear that this is no ordinary man.

Fingers and appendages are lengthened and broader than

normal.  But it is the large head and long sharp teeth that

especially catches our attention.

MESS - SAME

ON A BEAUTIFUL BAVARIAN SETTING

as a hand suddenly moves into frame and we see the scene is

actually one of DeJesus' jigsaw puzzles.  He takes a piece

of blue sky from the hundreds of pieces on the table and

places it perfectly into position on the puzzle.  Jones

watches him amazed.

He picks up another piece of blue sky and effortlessly fits

it into place as Jones watches.  It's blowing Jones' mind.

He gets up to go into the mess and Jones looks at him in

amazement.

ON WILLIE

She jogs down the corridors toward the Swamp.  The Shack

CREAKS and Willie looks down through the grating passing

below her feet.  It is dark down there.  Her feet pound off

the metal grating.

LOW ANGLE  We watch Willie from below as she jogs past.  THEN

WE TILT DOWN to the dark, still water of the bilge.  Suddenly

something stirs in the water--a ripple like a trout in a

stream.

CONTROL ROOM - SAME

Using a computer plotting program to measure the dimensions

of the skull on the videotape, Doc enters these measurements

as they are read off to him by Beck.  As each of the

measurements go into the computer an image of a skull begins

to appear on the computer screen, followed by a name:

DANAKIL MAN.

ON WILLIE

running.  She jogs past the machine room.  Looking in, the

machines seem alive, pulsing, the beating heart of the

Shack.  There is something else though.  We feel something

in there watching her.

CONTROL ROOM

On Doc.

Doc looks up at the image on the screen.  The huge skull

stares back hauntingly.

DORMITORY - SAME

ON COBB  He sits on his bunk and peers under his bandage.

He turns on an overhead reading light and looks again.

Suddenly a voice startles him.

At first startled, Cobb recovers and answers sharply.

Jones starts to leave when he suddenly notices something on

Cobb's bunk.  He picks it up and we see a photo of Cobb's

family.

Cobb snatches the photo back from Jones and glares at him

with the same old, hard "Cobb look."

Jones leaves, and Cobb waits till he is gone then looks back

at his photo.  His look changes, softening.  Absently he

scratches his bandage.

SWAMP

Willie enters and checks her running time on her watch.  She

bends over to catch her breath then straightens suddenly.

OVERHEAD SHOT

WE are watching her from above.  For a moment she is quiet

as if listening for a noise somewhere in the Swamp.  She

looks around slowly and her eyes come to rest on the

Workbench.

MESS - SAME

DeJesus looking for food.  In the gloom of fluorescent

lighting he opens and closes various cabinets looking for a

snack.

He notices that the floor's wet near the sink.  He frowns

and hears a SMALL NOISE, like something shifting slightly.

He moves to investigate, crouching low, peeking into the

shadows under the sink, into a litter of cleanser bottles,

pails, rags...All he can see are shadows.  He looks more

closely, actually sticking his head under the sink when

SUDDENLY SOMETHING TOUCHES HIS SHOULDER FROM BEHIND!  DEJESUS

JUMPS, BUMPING HIS HEAD ON THE SINK AS HE WHIRLS TO SEE.

JONES, looming over his shoulder, looking down at him.

Not fully recovered from the start, DeJesus rubs his bruised

head.

DeJesus gets to his feet, points at the water under the

sink.

DeJesus continues to scrutinize the water then looks back at

Jones.

He looks down at his sandwich as Jones starts out of the

galley.  Something is missing.

He opens the refrigerator and finds the mustard jar empty.

He throws the jar in the trash then opens the cabinet next

to the refrigerator for a new jar, and reaches inside.

SUDDENLY, LIKE A SNAKE, A TWO FOOT CHUNK OF MUSCLE ATTACHES

TO DEJESUS'S WRIST!  WITH HIS FREE HAND DEJESUS TRIES TO RIP

THE TWISTING, WRITHING THING OFF.  PULLING AT IT HE REVEALS

PART OF SIXPACK'S FACE--ONE EYE AND PART OF HIS

MOUTH--UNDERNEATH THE SURFACE.

DeJesus falls against the side cabinets screaming and

causing an avalanche of pots and pans.

INSIDE THE MESS

Jones is now putting a piece of the puzzle into place when

he hears THE CLATTER OF POTS AND PANS.

There is no answer and Jones looks up.

He goes to the door and looks in.  His eyes widen at the

sight of DeJesus staggering toward him with the squeezing

hunk of muscle.

He keeps coming at Jones who backs away slowly from his

friend.

Jones finds himself backing away until he is by the door to

the Galley.  He closes it, rushing through into the Mess to

the Ring corridor where he runs into Cobb.

Jones runs out and leaves Cobb by the door.  Cobb watches

him go.  As the noise in the Mess intensifies, we hear

banging on the door, then DeJesus' anguished cries.

Cobb backs slowly down the corridor toward the dorm.

UPPER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

Jones meets Beck and Doc leaving the control room.

INT. LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

Deserted.  There is no sign of Cobb and the door to the mess

stands open.  The mess is empty.  Beck is the first one down

the ladder followed by Jones.

Cobb returns with a mining tool.

Beck suddenly looks around noticing something.

INT. THE LOWER "B" CORRIDOR - SAME

Jones and Beck move down the spooky corridor toward the

Swamp.  Overhead, water moves through the desalinization

conduit.  Jones eyes it warily.

SWAMP

They enter the quiet Swamp.  The suits hang silently like

sleeping monsters.  Beck steps into the equipment room.

Jones walks along the suits which hang in front of him.

Their empty masks stare at him hauntingly.  He reaches the

end and stands in front of the ladder where we earlier saw

Willie doing chin-ups.  He looks down and sees her headband

floating in the bilgewater.

Suddenly Willie lowers herself from the bar behind him.

The sudden sight of her nearly gives Jones heart failure, he

stumbles backwards into the ankle deep water and Willie

drops from the bar laughing.

Willie picks up the strain in Jones' voice, her smile fades.

THE EQUIPMENT ROOM - SAME

Jones, Willie and Beck move quickly.  Beck pulls a portable

laser drill which fits into the arm of the mechanical suits

and attaches a portable power unit to the back.  Turning it

on it becomes a sinister close-range weapon.

Willie opens an equipment cabinet and reveals deflated

container transporters.  Beck notices and then looks up at

Jones who opens a locked cabinet and takes out the bicycle

pump/earthquake device we saw Willie use earlier.

Beck reaches out and takes the powerful weapon away from

him.

Jones thinks about it for a moment, then reaches for one of

the Acetylene tanks.  He lights the end of it and a long

blue tongue of flame whips out the door into the Swamp.

Jones grins.

INFIRMARY - SAME

Doc and Cobb move into the Infirmary.  Doc goes into his

office.  He takes three scalpels out of an equipment drawer

and then looks up, through the levolor blinds into the

infirmary.  What he sees upsets him.

INT. SWAMP - SAME

Jones working the intercom.

He looks back to Beck, concerned.

INFIRMARY - SAME

Doc leaves his office and slowly goes into the Infirmary to

the storage counter across the room--where the blood is

stored.  WE SEE what disturbed him...the door to the

refrigeration unit is ajar.  Doc opens the door to the

cabinet.  The plastic bags are now empty.  Each one has been

drained.

LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

Cobb moves out of the Infirmary, carefully down the eerie

corridor, his mining tool in front of him for security.

There is a sinister feel to the place.  Each step only

reveals a little bit of space ahead of him.  Suddenly he

stops.  In front of him across the hall a cabinet which

says:  ONBOARD COMMUNICATIONS, is torn open.  It is where

DeJesus fixed the intercom the day before.

CLOSE ON THE CABINET

The door is shattered.  Carefully, Cobb opens the door and

WE SEE the guts of the wiring have been torn out--the entire

system has been disabled.

Cobb carefully examines the damage WHEN SUDDENLY A SCALY

HAND-LIKE APPENDAGE slams into the cabinet door trapping

COBB and sending his weapon to the floor.  Cobb turns

directly into

THE LEECH-LIKE MOUTH!  It's sharp teeth shine in the light,

poised to strike.

Cobb's eyes closed, screams like a maniac, waiting for the

tentacle to attack.  Then suddenly an UNGODLY SCREAM echoes

in the corridor.

COBB opens his eyes to see the tentacle gone.  Doc is

holding the smoking mining drill, his eyes glazed, as if he

has seen the devil itself.

Doc shakes his head dumbly.  He is in total shock.

THE MESS

The remaining group is assembled around the table.  Jones

watches the door with one of the homemade flamethrowers.  He

listens.

He holds out the empty blood bags.  A change has come over

Doc since Bowman's death.  The experience has slightly

deadened him.

He looks from Doc to Beck.

Doc looks at Beck, then Jones.

Beck locks eyes with Doc.

Willie looks at Beck.

Beck checks his flamethrower and looks at Jones.

THE MESS - LATER

ON BECK  He flexes his arm as a needle is taken from it.  WE

SEE a half-pint of blood in a bag, held by Doc.  He secures

it and hands it back to Beck.

He looks over at Jones who watches the door.  Jones looks

back and nods.  The coast is clear.

LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

The door to the Mess opens and Beck slips into the shadows

of the hall.  A second later Jones follows.  In the dim

light they begin moving toward the Lower "B" corridor to the

Swamp.

MESS - SAME

Cobb, Doc and Willie alone in the Mess.  Cobb scratches his

bandage.  Doc notices.

Cobb pulls back the bandage and looks at the gash.

INSERT COBB'S WOUND  Pink and healing.

He looks at Willie.

He turns and Willie stops him with a firm grip.

THE LOWER RING CORRIDOR - SAME

The door opens and carefully Doc steps out into the

corridor.  He looks toward the Infirmary then starts up the

ladder to the Upper Level instead.

CLOSE ON DROPS OF BLOOD INTO A SMALL POOL

a grisly sight.

WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL the drops coming from the plasma bag

of Beck's blood.  Beck stops the drip and moves on into the

darkness of the corridor.

CONTROL ROOM

Doc moves behind the computer keyboard in the dim light of

the Control room.  His face lit by the computer monitor.  He

types furiously.

COMPUTER SCREEN

"Emergency Escape Bubbles...ready for activation..."

DOC pauses looking at the message, then moves his hand to

the SEND command and presses it.

THE MESS - LATER

Willie prepares a clean bandage as Doc examines the cut.  He

smiles at Cobb like a friendly country doctor.  The tired look

now gone from his eyes.  He seems revitalized.

She nods.  Doc turns back to the sink and Cobb holds out his

arm to let Willie put the new bandage on.  As Cobb's arm

comes up we suddenly notice a slight movement under his

shirt.  Willie stops just before applying the bandage.  The

movement intensifies--like snakes moving wildly beneath the

cloth.  Cobb whitens...breaks out in a sweat.  Willie backs

off.

She steps back and Doc moves into her place as suddenly a

leech-mouthed tentacle erupts from Cobb's waist.  It's razor

sharp proboscis punctures Doc's chest right at the heart and

the leach mouth with it's hundreds of teeth attaches with

vacuum-like suction.

But it is too late.  Willie falls back screaming as Cobb's

gash RRRRRRRIPS OPEN!  THE FLESH OPENING GROTESQUELY FROM

THE INSIDE AND INVERTS SCALY--SPREADING OVER COBB'S BODY

LIKE A BUSHFIRE!

CORRIDOR "B"

CLOSE ON THE POOL OF BLOOD

A huge shadow falls over the pool left by Beck.  A scaly

tentacle suddenly whips across the floor.  The DEJESUS

CREATURE!  WE SEE THE FLASH OF ITS APPENDAGES.  IT'S HEAD.

AN EYE OPENS AND LOOKS UP.

WHAT IT SEES  The outline of Beck lying "hurt" fifty feet

away.

It starts down the corridor toward it's prey--Beck.

ON BECK

A little behind him with the homemade flamethrower, Jones

waits in the shadows.  Suddenly Beck hears something.

Jones moves a little farther back.

As the Creature approaches WE SEE Beck stand up like a

wounded animal.  He begins dragging his "injured" leg behind

him as he retreats toward the Swamp.  THE FOOTSTEPS MOVE

FASTER.  IT'S CLOSING!

INT. RING CORRIDOR - SAME

ON WILLIE  She bursts out the door to the MESS and heads

toward Corridor "B."

DOOR TO THE SWAMP

Beck moves through the door to the Swamp and positions

himself by the door.  He looks back and WE SEE Jones for the

first time, flamethrower poised, ready to fire.

ON THE SHADOW OF THE CREATURE

It moves steadily toward the door, moving right to the

doorway.  Carefully it moves a dark, horrible hand-like

appendage inside the doorframe.

ON BECK AND JONES

poised to kill when suddenly both men hear the same thing.

ON WILLIE

She turns the corner and freezes.  There, less than ten feet

away is the Creature.  A tentacle whips excitedly like a

tail!

AS THE CREATURE starts to turn for Willie, Beck suddenly

closes the vault-like door to the swamp on Creature's hand,

trapping it vise-like in the door.

The Creature throws back its head and SCREAMS in pain as the

heavy door severs its appendage.

ON BECK AND JONES

As the writhing hand-like appendage squirms in front of them

Jones blasts it with his flamethrower until the hand curls

like a piece of bacon and it ceases to move.

Beck opens the door--the corridor is empty.  Willie and the

creature are gone.

ON WILLIE RUNNING

She heads back toward the Ring corridor around the inner

path toward Corridor "A".  In a full run now, every panel

and instrument looks even more sinister--where is Cobb/Doc

CREATURE?---

ON THE DEJESUS CREATURE'S SEVERED APPENDAGE

As the Creature moves after Willie we see its bloody stump

suddenly sprout a new appendage!  Like a starfish it grows

another leech like tentacle to replace the one it lost.

ON WILLIE

She turns down Corridor "A".  A NOISE overhead in the water

conduit causes her to look up WHEN SUDDENLY A BLACK ARM

REACHES OUT FROM THE SHADOWS, AND PULLS HER INTO THE DARK

DOORWAY TO THE MACHINE FLOOR----IT IS JONES!  He pulls her

between him and Beck in the shadows.

CONTROL ROOM

Beck is followed inside by Jones and Willie.  It is empty.

Jones rolls the large vault-like door closed and locks them.

Beck goes to the console and checks the instruments.

Suddenly he sees something that causes him to freeze in his

tracks.  A red light blinks ominously on the console.

She and Jones stop in front of Doc's console.

Beck looks at Doc's computer screen.

ON SCREEN WE SEE DOC'S MESSAGE:  "...hope that our sacrifice

will mean that the human race will never know this awful

mutation..."

SUDDENLY THERE IS A TREMENDOUS BANGING ON THE DOOR!  LIKE A

HUNDRED SLEDGEHAMMERS POUNDING THE HEAVY STEEL DOOR TRYING

TO BREAK IT DOWN.  Jones readies his weapon but just as

suddenly, the BANGING STOPS.  Beck, Willie and Jones all

nervously exchange looks.

Beck slides behind the Console and quickly types in a

message.  WE SEE IT ON THE SCREEN.  "SHACK SIX REPORTING.

PLEASE DISREGARD PREVIOUS MESSAGE---"

SUDDENLY MARTIN'S FACE APPEARS ON THE VIDEO SCREEN.

Martin smiles calmly back at the three of them.

Jones lets out a breath.  Willie stares straight at the

screen.

He turns off his screen and the picture in front of Beck,

Jones and Willie goes blank.

CONTROL ROOM - LATER

Jones sits near the vent sound asleep, his weapon across

his stomach.  Near him Willie lies still, eyes open.  She

watches Beck across the room, standing at the window.

He stares outside into the darkness for a moment, then

as if a thought suddenly occurs to him he looks at the

blank computer screen.

CLOSE ON COMPUTER SCREEN

"Request weather summaries January 14-21."  The cursor

blinks back ominously then races across the screen.  "FILE

CLOSED."

Suddenly he hears a voice behind him.

She moves into Doc's seat in front of the console and calls

up the stock market program that Bowman was monitoring

earlier.

ON SCREEN  WE SEE:  Stock prices.

Willie types in a series of commands.

ON SCREEN:  The words TransOcean Corp.  The capsulized report

comes up on screen:  "TransOcean Corp. took a bath on world

markets today when news of a tragic mining accident was

revealed to investors.  The Board of Directors...."

She scrolls forward in the report and suddenly freezes the

words.

THE SCREEN:  "...accident took place in Shack Six, Southeast

Sector of Pacific Zone 10...Seven dead.  All bodies

missing."  Their names follow.

ON WILLIE  as her name comes up she shivers.

A voice behind them causes them to turn.

He is now awake.  He sits up against the air vent.  Suddenly,

Beck listens, the room is deathly silent.  He looks over to

the air vent.  Jones is listening also.

WHOOP!  WHOOP!  Suddenly a KLAXON HORN sounds hysterically.

A blue light on the console blinks on and off.  It says

"AIR."  Beck turns to the instruments.

SUDDENLY WE HEAR A SOUND WE HAVEN'T HEARD IN A LONG TIME.

The RATTLE THAT JONES AND COBB FIXED.  Jones and Beck home

in on the tell-tale noise.

He locks eyes with Beck.

He leaves his seat and Jones checks his weapon as Willie

watches.

Beck checks his make-shift flamethrower.

Willie watches them a moment then picks up one of the mining

tools, the laser-drill, she powers-it up to check it.  Her

action stops both men and she catches their looks.

INT. CORRIDOR "A" - SAME

Carefully the three move into the Lower Ring Corridor.  As

they move we suddenly hear a new sound, DEEP, LIKE DISTANT

THUNDER.  The sides of the shack tremble slightly.

Jones moves to the lead and turns down Corridor "A."

INT. CORRIDOR "A"

The SOUND of the power-wrench removing the bolts from the

flooring.  The cover is removed and Beck and Jones peer down

into the darkness.  Willie stands guard with the flame-

thrower.

ON JONES  He peers into the darkness below.  He wasn't a big

fan of the bilge even before the Creature, now he's scared

shitless.

Before Jones can protest Beck drops the ladder and climbs

down into the dark bilge.  Jones waits till he's at the

bottom, then starts down behind him.  Willie looks back.

BILGE

From somewhere in the darkness we hear the HISSING SOUND OF

ESCAPING OXYGEN and the FAMILIAR RATTLE OF THE AIR SYSTEM.

As soon as Jones reaches the bottom rung Beck shines a light

into the eerie underground area.

Pipes run overhead and on the walls.  A broken electrical

conduit sparks over their heads.  The floor is ankle deep in

greasy water.  They start toward the noise.

ON WILLIE

Her back is to the solid wall(outside wall).  Her eyes move

from one end of the corridor to the other, not lingering

long enough to distract her.  Sweat runs down her face and

we hear another tremor in the Shack.

ANOTHER RUMBLE FROM THE SHACK causes her to pause.  She

catches her breath and starts again.

She suddenly looks into the Main machine area (behind the

wire mesh of the other wall).  Was it something moving?

BILGE

ON BECK  He moves around a corner we recognize from before

with Jones' and Cobb's repair.  Beck floods the area with

light and the break in the line is visible.  The pipe has

been torn from the wall, it is totally unreparable.  What's

worse, electrical wires hang down, showering sparks into the

water.

Suddenly his eyes widen.  Beck sees this and turns.  In his

light WE SEE THE GLINT OF LONG TEETH AND THE HUGE BLACK

FRAME OF THE COBB/DOC CREATURE!  It's leech-like appendage

whipping in front of it like an excited cat's tail.  Before

it can strike, Jones pushes Beck out of the way and fires a

blast of flame from his flamethrower.  The CREATURE SCREAMS

and disappears.

As Beck falls his light lands in the bilge water and goes

out sending the bilge into greater darkness.

Jones looks back at the ruptured pipe and suddenly has a

thought.

They start for the ladder when WWWWHHHHHHHHIP! out of the

darkness the appendage wraps like a bullwhip around Jones'

arm.  The deadly proboscis, which stabbed Cobb, is poised

like a dagger about to be plunged into the black man's

thigh.

Instinctively Beck whips out the mining saw and severs the

tentacle.  The unseen Creature's SCREAM echoes through the

Bilge.  Beck grabs Jones by the arm and pulls him toward the

ladder.

Quickly they slosh toward the ladder and hole in the floor

fifteen feet away, moving closer...ten...eight....then

suddenly ANOTHER APPENDAGE thrusts between the rungs of the

ladder at them.  Beck ducks and leaps to the side.  He is

less than six feet from the Creature.  In the dim light WE

SEE it wickedly bare its teeth.

Beck's eyes go to the walls from one side to the other and

spot the exposed power cable.  The Creature steps forward

directly under the hole in the floor.  It is about to lunge

when a voice from above distracts it.

The Creature looks up and sees:

ON WILLIE STANDING OVER THE OPENING, HER FLAMETHROWER

POINTED STRAIGHT DOWN.  SHE FIRES, SENDING A SEARING BLUE

FLAME INTO THE BILGE.

BECK watches the flame roar down on the monster and it gives

him the moment of distraction he needs.  He leaps out of the

bilge water and onto a pipe on the wall then rips the broken

power cable from the wall.

Jones jumps up and grabs a pipe running overhead as Beck

thrusts the sparking cable into the water at the Creature's

feet.

IN A BLINDING FLASH OF ELECTRICITY

The current surges through the Cobb/Doc Creature sending it

instantly rigid.  A second later it crashes forward into the

water.

Moving hand over hand toward the ladder Jones quickly climbs

out, followed by Beck.

THE SHACK CONTINUES TO SHAKE, EACH JOLT STRONGER THAN THE

LAST.  As they emerge Willie helps them.

They start for the Swamp down Corridor "A" when an enormous

shudder goes through the Shack, causing the lights to blink

and the floor to open beneath Beck.  The jolt knocks him

back into the bilge.  Only grabbing onto the pipes just

above the water stops him from falling back in.

JONES stops and looks back over the missing grating.

Jones moves instinctively back for him, but another jolt

only widens the gap.  Beck yells to be heard over the din of

the collapsing Shack.

He leaps across the gap onto a remaining grating and thrusts

his hand down into the darkness.  Beck lets go of one hand,

then the other, to grab Jones' extended arm.  In one

Herculean effort Jones pulls him out of the bilge.  Together

they leap across the chasm as the Desalinization Conduit

collapses over their heads and water floods into Corridor "A"

behind them.  They have to go around the other way!

AS THEY RUN

KLAXON HORNS SOUND and a RECORDED FEMALE VOICE warns:  "Five

minutes until implosion..."

FLASH CUTS OF:

THE LIGHTS FLICKER AND FAIL, CAUSING THE EMERGENCY LIGHTING

TO GO ON, AND CASTING AN EERIE STROBE EFFECT ON THE ESCAPING

THREE CREW MEMBERS

FALLING CEILING BEAMS CRASH DOWN IN FRONT AND BEHIND...

SEAMS BEND UNDER THE STRAIN, RIVETS POP...

STRAINING MACHINES SEND SCALDING GEYSERS OF STEAM INTO THE

CORRIDORS...AND SUDDENLY THE FLOOR GIVES WAY BENEATH WILLIE!

She leaps up and grabs an overhanging pipe and swings to the

firm ground.

JONES LEADS THE WAY TOWARD THE SWAMP, WITH WILLIE BEHIND

HIM, AND BECK COVERING THE REAR.

THEY reach the end of the corridor and Willie and Jones turn

into the Swamp Annex.  Willie hits the door opener.  RRRRRR

IT DOESN'T BUDGE.  The pressure has bent the door frame.

BECK ARRIVES

Immediately Beck backtracks to the corridor and pulls a hand

held spreader--like a "Jaws of Life"--from the wall.  He

turns back to the Swamp when a BLACK SCALY ARM SUDDENLY

BURSTS THROUGH THE WIRE MESH OF THE MACHINE FLOOR AND PULLS

BECK AGAINST THE WIRE!  IT IS THE DEJESUS CREATURE.

His head held in place by the powerful arm, Beck looks

almost directly into the dark eyes of the Creature.  Its

gill-like slits flare.  Its mouth opens and we see a flash

of its razor sharp teeth.

Before Beck can move the leech-like appendage ruptures the

steel mesh and its razor-sharp proboscis plunges like a

knife for Beck's face.  At the last instant Beck move his

head and the proboscis slams into the steel mesh.  The mesh

loosens the creature's grip and Beck manages to reach a

mining drill from the tools on the wall.  As the appendage

starts to strike again Beck buries the whining tool into the

Creature's tentacle and breaks free.

Scooping up the spreader Beck rushes to the Swamp door where

Jones and Willie are trying vainly to hand crank the door

open.

Willie stands back and Beck thrusts the Spreader into the

tiny crack in the door the hand crank had made.  With Jones'

help the two men force open the door and all three rush

inside the SWAMP.  Beck closes the door behind them.

THE RECORDED FEMALE VOICE INTONES:  "Five minutes to

implosion."  And we feel it happening:

THE BILGE WATER ON THE FLOOR OF THE SWAMP RIPPLES WITH THE

VIBRATIONS

THE WALLS SHAKE

THE HUGE METAL SUITS ROCK LIKE CLOTHES ON A CLOTHES LINE.

ONE FALLS AND CRASHES INTO THE WATER

JONES throws open the control panel and grabs the red

handled emergency air switch, but he can only move it half

way!  It is jammed by the pressure.

Willie grabs it with him, but even together it is not

enough.  THE HANDLE BREAKS OFF IN THEIR HANDS!

STEAM JETS WHIP DOWN ON THEM FROM ABOVE!

THE WATER AT THEIR FEET NOW BOILS FROM VIBRATION!

THE FEMALE VOICE INTONES:  "Four minutes..."

BECK TURNS AND SEES THE SUITS IN THE LOCK

He grabs Willie and pushes her toward the Lock where her

suit hangs.

Willie moves quickly but Jones doesn't.

Beck yanks open the equipment locker revealing TANKS OF

COMPRESSED AIR AND DEFLATED CONTAINER TRANSPORTERS.

He looks up at Jones who grins with renewed hope and they

begin pulling the equipment out.

Jones and Beck drag the tanks and the parachute-like

Container transporters to the lock.

ON WILLIE  She climbs into her suit and activates her

generator.  Instantly her Vital Signs spring to life around

the perimeter of her helmet.

THE FEMALE VOICE TREMBLES FROM THE VIBRATIONS..."Three

minutes...to...implosion..."

Beck and Jones throw the last of the supplies onto the

elevator and Beck holds out the SEISMIC TOOL Jones tried to

arm himself with earlier.  He takes the tool from Beck and

sticks it in the vest of his wet suit.

Then suddenly he sees that there are only two suits in the

Lock.  Beck will have to wait on his to move along the track

to the Lock.

Jones climbs onto the Lock platform and slides into his

suit.

Beck hits the Suit track button and his suit begins moving

along the track toward the Lock.  A suit turns the corner

from the storage room followed by one labeled BECK.

Beck looks at the walls, they're shaking harder.  He moves

along the suit rack when suddenly THE CREATURE BURSTS FROM

BEHIND THE SUITS SHATTERING THEM LIKE AN EXPLOSION!  A HUGE

TENTACLE HURLS TOWARD BECK LIKE A SPEAR.

BECK ducks just in time, grabbing a fire ax and chopping off

the appendage.  Another tentacle jabs for Beck.

But it is too late.  It knocks the ax from Beck's hand and

sends him to the floor.  Beck looks up at the Lock in time to

see Jones seal himself into his suit.

THE CREATURE APPROACHES BECK

Beck looks at the others one last time.

Jones hits the elevator button and the Lock closes as the

elevator sends them down without Beck.

BECK stands and arms himself with a mining drill, which he

swings at the Creature driving it back.  As Beck gets the

upper hand, the Creature turns its hideous face and Beck

freezes.  There attached to the back of the Creature's head

is the grotesque face of DeJesus!

DeJesus' eyes suddenly blink.  He's still alive!  His lips

tremble in agony.

Beck, momentarily stopped by the face, lunges forward with

the drill and embeds it in the side of the Creature.

As the Creature falls back hurt, Beck looks up at the lock

elevator as it returns--IT IS EMPTY--The others have made it

out!  His suit continues down the track and stops in the

Lock.  He still has to make it, if he can just get there!

THE RECORDED FEMALE VOICE SOUNDS:  "One minute to

implosion..."

Beck races to the Lock and starts to climb into the suit.

His arms slide into place, his legs drop into the heavy

metal shell and as he seals up the back he activates the

generator.

BECK'S POV.  His vital signs light up around the perimeter

of his helmet, but he sees something else--the Creature

charges toward the Lock--its arm reaches out to yank Beck

out of the elevator!  Instinctively, Beck swings his

motorized leg into the Creature's snarling mouth, knocking

it backwards and stunning it long enough for Beck to hit the

elevator button.  BUT IT DOESN'T WORK!

He hits again, still nothing!

THE RECORDED FEMALE VOICE..."Nineteen, eighteen..."  Her

voice begins to quiver.

BECK POUNDS ON THE BUTTON AND LOOKS UP JUST AS THE CREATURE

DIVES FOR HIM, ITS HUGE SCALY HAND GRABBING HIM AROUND

BECK'S LEG!

CLOSE ON THE ELVATOR BUTTON  Beck pounds it one last time

and NNNNNNNNNNNN!

THE LOCK CLOSES, CRUSHING THE CREATURE AS IT FLUSHES BECK

OUTSIDE SECONDS BEFORE THE ENTIRE STRUCTURE COLLAPSES WITH

IMPLOSION AND SUDDENLY EXPLODES IN A HUGE SHUDDER OF ENERGY!

UNDERWATER - LATER

WHOOSH!  A parachute-like Container Transporter zoom toward

the surface.  A heavy-suited crew member flashes past us.

Its helmet light pierces the darkness, then disappears.  A

moment later another Transporter follows, racing out of the

darkness after the first.

BECK'S POV  We see the vital signs lit in a ring around his

helmet.  The depth gauge races past with blinding speed as

he moves closer to the surface.

WILLIE'S POV  She tilts her head upwards.  She snaps off her

light and sees instead of black, a lighter gray, then

suddenly faint traces of light in the water above her.  At

first it seems like her eyes are playing tricks on her, then

we see it again--a glimmer of light.

ON BECK

He follows her look.  Light is coming fast, brightening as

they rise.  The LED numbers inside their helmets click

off..."125, 100, 75..."

WILLIE'S POV  Her numbers count down "....70, 60, 50, 40..."

She yanks at the handle on the chest plate and WHOOSH!  The

plate bursts open and reveals a second interior handle.  Her

hand gropes for it.

SUNLIGHT IS STREAMING DOWN THROUGH THE WATER AS SHE RUSHES

UPWARD.

WHOOSH!  The helmet and torso of the suit are blown open as

she pulls the second lever detaching her from the balloons.

No longer oxygen supported or being pulled upward, Willie

frees herself from the heavy suit and swims to the surface.

SUDDENLY SHE BREAKS THE SURFACE AND CATCHES A GLIMPSE OF THE

SUN, DAZZLING THROUGH A MILLION DROPLETS OF WATER AS A HUGE

SWELL CARRIES HER UP EVEN HIGHER.

Then she's underwater again, struggling desperately to pull

the tab on the life jacket around her neck.  Suddenly a MALE

HAND GRABS THE TAB FOR HER AND PULLS.  She looks up at Beck.

Holding onto each other Willie and Beck ride a swell.  At

the crest WE SEE JONES in the trough below, face down.  Beck

breaks away from Willie and swims through the waves to reach

Jones.  Reaching him Beck pulls his face out of the water

and inflates his life jacket.

Beck lays Jones head back against the life jacket.  For a

moment.  Jones seems lifeless, then his eyes blink and squint

against the sunlight.  Beck turns back to Willie and as he

and Jones ride the next crest he gives her the "thumbs-up."

Jones looks at Beck and grins.

CALM SEA - LATER

BECK, WILLIE AND JONES cling to each other as they search

the horizon.

BECK pulls the flare off his latex wet suit and fires it

into the sky casting a comforting yellow glow over the dark

water.  The light fades, Willie looks at Jones.

They both manage a weak laugh, then Beck sees something.

As a small swell lifts them up we can see a tiny flare just

fading against the sky.

WHOOOOOOOOSH!  Beck fires another flare into the sky.  As the

flare arcs downward, Willie feels another bump and for the

first time sees the SHARKS CIRCLING THEM.

The SHARKS tighten the circle as the flare fades.

EXT. U.S. COASTGUARD SHIP'S BRIDGE - SAME

A CAPTAIN watches the flare fade through his binoculars and

speaks to someone O.S.

He lowers his binoculars AS WE WIDEN TO REVEAL MARTIN

standing on the bridge.  He also lowers his binoculars and

smiles coolly as he lies.

We hold on Martin's face as from

THE FORE DECK OF THE SHIP

A rescue chopper with pontoons lifts off the deck and banks

off toward the fading flare.

OCEAN - SAME

Jones, Willie and Beck stay bunched close together.

Suddenly Willie feels another bump.

Suddenly he is bumped by a shark.  Willie sees one only two

feet away.  They are surrounded.  Suddenly Jones stare to

taunt the sharks aggressively.

He pushes away from the group despite Beck's attempt to stop

him.

Amazingly the sharks begin to disappear.  Willie and Beck

watch stunned.  Even Jones is surprised.

He jabs his arm upward in triumph and for the first time WE

SEE a gash across his forearm.

UNDERWATER POV

As Jones crows triumphantly, WE SUDDENLY SEE HIS WET SUIT

RIPPING ALONG HIS THIGHS!

SURFACE/OCEAN

Jones is chortling, suddenly his smile vanishes, something

is happening...

WE hear the DRONE OF THE APPROACHING HELICOPTER...THUMP,

THUMP, THUMP...The blades of the helicopter sound out over

the waves.  It's lights are visible.  Willie and Beck wave

frantically as Jones drifts closer to them!

UNDERWATER

JONES' LEGS  His wet suit is now completely split open and

WE SEE THE BLACK SCALES SPREADING!

THE HELICOPTER

hovers over the group below and lands on the water.  Its

blades beat the surface into waves.  The WINCH OPERATOR

hurls out a rescue harness and Beck helps Willie into the

ring.  He CLICKS the fastener and suddenly they both lock

eyes.  Before Willie can say anything Beck falls back and

signals the Winch operator who begins hauling her to safety.

Immediately Beck locks back at Jones and extends his arm.

WILLIE reaches the helicopter and quickly climbs out of the

harness.  The Winch operator throws it back across the water

where

BECK grabs the harness.

Jones reaches out his hand.  He is almost there WHEN

SUDDENLY RISING OUT OF THE WATER BEHIND THEM IS THE

SIXPACK/BOWMAN CREATURE IN ALL ITS HIDEOUS GLORY!  HUGE AND

GRUESOME, ITS LONG TEETH GLIMMER IN THE LIGHT.  IT GOES FOR

BECK BUT JONES MOVES BETWEEN THEM.

The Creature grabs Jones and pulls him violently under.

Beck watches horrified as his friend disappears.  Numbed he

clips the rescue harness around him when suddenly, WE SEE a

boiling of water where Jones disappeared...bubbles

rising...and then Jones' bloody and tattered life vest bobs

to the surface several feet away from Beck.

Beck reaches out for it just as the Creature appears again!

It turns and focuses on Beck.  Beck keeps going for the life

vest as the Creature starts for him.

ON HELICOPTER

The Winch operator and Willie watch in horror as the

Creature bears down on Beck.

CLOSE ON JONES' TATTERED VEST  Beck reaches it.  His fingers

wrap around the bicycle pump-like, seismic tool in Jones'

vest pocket.  The Creature is right on top of him!

CHUNK, CHUNK, Beck cocks it like a pump shotgun as tentacles

rise wickedly out of the water and wrap around Beck's body

in a death grip.  It's horrible mouth starts to open.

The Creature's mouth widens and as it starts to strike Beck

thrusts the seismic tool into its gaping maw and

cable is taut!  The helicopter is taking off!

BECK'S POV/ RISING SHOT.  Beck rises suddenly out of the

water, the Creature growing instantly smaller below him

until BOOM! the Seismic device explodes in the

Sixpack/Bowman Creature, blowing it to bits across the ocean

surface!  The shock wave sends the helicopter banking off

toward the ship with Beck safely attached by cable below it.

The winch operator pulls him in.

EXT. COAST GUARD SHIP - LATER

Beck, dressed now in crisp white clothes, stands on deck of

the ship.  He glances occasionally at a door nearby marked

INFIRMARY, then looks up as the Captain approaches and

shakes his hand.

Beck looks up surprised as suddenly Martin joins them.

Beck looks at Martin for an instant then hauls off and in

one incredibly smooth punch knocks Martin on his can across

the deck.

Just then the door to the infirmary opens and Willie appears

with a new outfit on.  Smiles at Beck.

Beck lets out a slight sigh of relief as a STEWARD

approaches with a tray of WHOLE COOKED FISH, HIDEOUS LOOKING

THINGS LIKE ANGLERS, LOBSTERS, CRABS...MINIATURE LEVIATHAN.

The sight is almost too intense for Beck and Willie.  The

Captain notices.

Willie stares at the tray of seafood uneasily then looks at

the Captain and smiles.

She and Beck laugh as they sit at a finely set table on the

deck with the Captain.

AS WE PULL BACK the ship becomes smaller and smaller in the

distance and WE ARE AT THE

SURFACE OF THE OCEAN

riding the swells, rising and falling before slipping

beneath the waves and descending again into the cold

depths.

