clips, still photos -- appear behind a MAJOR MEDIA ICON:

Establishing, as:

Marco with LT. COL. HOWARD, a kindly but pedantic Army staff

psychiatrist, referring to notes:

Beat.   Howard looks up at Marco.

Marco shrugs.

Dial tone.   He hangs up.   Exhales.

ring, and ring and ring. Dull HISS of the city.

Raymond sits in a chair, rigged up with wires and tubes

(much like he was ten years ago) -- a TRANSLUCENT BOX around

his face overlaid with a METRIC GRID, his head held

motionless by a semi-circular BRACE, curved calibration

offering precise positioning for a MICRO-DRILL that Noyle

moves into place -- and then a long, tiny drill bit WHIRS

DOWN through STERILE LATEX stretched very tight across

Raymond's head --

-- and plunges precisely and effortlessly through Raymond's

skull, then STOPS -- he has no reaction, feels nothing --

LCD screens -- show a VIRTUAL MAP OF RAYMOND'S BRAIN, in a

full range of primary colors -- sections morphing as

thoughts and memories race through his mind, as

MINISCULE, INTERWOVEN WIRES -- are threaded down through the

HOLLOW core of the surgical drill, deep into Raymond's

brain. Noyle plays to one of the cameras:

Marco cups water in his hands and smears it on his face,

wiping it away with a paper towel. He comes up looking in

the mirror, avoiding his own gaze as --

IN THE MIRROR: THE DOOR OPENS

and a man comes partway in -- now it's Dr. Noyle.

Marco pivots -- no Noyle. The door is shut, locked.      He's

all alone. Losing his mind.

Lost in thought. Faint smile. She puts her hand flat

against the door, then turns and heads back to her seat.

Turns to the mirror again ... and again SEES Dr. Noyle

behind him, smiling:

KNOCKING at the door, a pass-key rattling in it --

emerges from the bathroom to find an irritated CONDUCTOR now

awkwardly trying to extract his key from the door, and Rosie

waiting.

Are you okay, sir?                Ben?

Marco stares at Rosie.    Twenty minutes?   The train SHUDDERS

to a halt --

Marco comes up the escalator, into a SEA OF COMMUTERS.

Momentarily lost. Rosie is behind him, a moment later with

her bag, and --

Beat.

Beat.

Marco feels his shirt -- soaked. Long beat. She reaches

out and feels his forehead. No fever. Sizing him up.

Rosie lets Marco in. It's incredibly cramped, everything in

one room, window facing a brick wall, lots of play posters.

Marco puts down the suitcases and waits in the middle of the

room while Rosie takes off her coat, turns on some lights.

Another awkward beat.    She stands there.   Studying him.

Catches himself.   That's just how Melvin said it.

Beat.

Beat.   Rosie smiles at him.

The water cascades down on him. He    feels around   on his back

where the door on the train whacked   him -- feels   something

on his shoulder -- a bump -- CAMERA   CURLS around   as he

twists, contorts, can't see it, but   feels it and   --

TIGHT - MARCO'S HAND

turning off the shower, hard --

She's sitting, watching the closed bathroom door.      No noise

from the shower.

hyper, rummaging through the vanity, searching for -- pair

of cuticle scissors, tweezers, anything sharp -- a little

basket of sample perfumes CRASHES into the sink --

Marco finds a razor blade -- twisting it clumsily in his

fingers to reach the slight bump on his back he can only

barely see in the mirror --

-- Rosie's KNOCKING HARDER, NOW.

He SLASHES at the lump.   Blood blossoms.   SLASHES again,

oblivious to pain.

PUSH IN as Ben presses the blade sharply down into his skin

... cutting a slit through which the blunt edge of

AN EXTREMELY TINY OBLONG THING

appears, like a grain of rice.   It slides out into Ben's

bloody fingers.

puts his trembling hand under the faucet, grips the thing

between two fingers, turns on the water --

breaks in -- sees the BLOOD smeared down Marco's back --

-- and the razor in his hand -- she pushes him away --

MARCO

-- loses his grip on the oblong thing before he can even get

a good look at it, and it goes into the sink --

-- and down the drain -- Marco twists the faucet off, and

FLOOR LEVEL - UNDER THE SINK

where he puts both hands on the fittings of the u-joint trap

and struggles to get them loose -- succeeding finally, water

spewing everywhere --

-- the trap falls to the floor, disgorging soap chips, slimy

hairballs and pipe corrosion and water ... but not the thing

he wants. It's --

MARCO -- rests his head on the cool tile, eyes far away.

Defeated. Rosie crouches next to him. A little scared.

She blots the blood from his back with the towel, and then

presses her ice pack against it.

Rosie just stares at him.

Marco closes his eyes.

Stark building with a huge parking lot and only one car

parked in it. A CAB pulls through the open gate, stops.

Marco gets out.

Ben and RICHARD DELP ascend at a good clip. Delp wears a

lab coat, trappings of a medical researcher:

He stops, unlocks a door, and they go --

A narrow, glassed-in space with a cluster of monitoring

equipment against the wall of darkened windows. Fluorescent

lights flicker on, revealing a CAVERNOUS SPACE BELOW, in

which an intricate MAZE of CAGES contains unhappy, SCREAMING

research MONKEYS with Orwellian stainless-steel hardware and

antennae bolted to their bisected skulls. Strange SOUNDS

and various LIGHTING EFFECTS emerge from the different

sections.

Wal-Mart? Fear? Marco looks at the monkeys. Doesn't want

to know any more. He shifts his gaze back to Delp. Studies

him. Then:

Delp just waits.

supporters behind a chain link fence --

Same. Raymond, his handlers, his Secret Service escort walk

a gauntlet of news cameras, REPORTERS lob questions from

behind a barrier:

MOVING WITH - MARCO

as he keeps pace with Raymond, walking, moving behind the

reporters, weaving through the crowd.

What about your mother's        Is your mother helping or

allegation that a nuclear       hurting your campaign?

attack on this country from

a secret alliance of rogue

states is certain within two

years?

Heads turning to find Marco, folder under his arm -- strange

looks -- Secret Service poised to react, but Raymond slows,

looks -- sees Marco. A cloud passing over his features:

MORE QUESTIONS lobbed out, overlapping, but Raymond ignores

them. Marco pushes through as Raymond assures Anderson:

Raymond and Marco in the back seat facing forward. Anderson

and campaign handler MIRELLA FREEMAN sit facing them,

talking low, on a cell phone, as:

He looks at Marco --

Beat.   He waits.   Anderson staring at Marco.

The limo pulls to a curb --

Through the windows SEE a crowded clutter of desks, phone

volunteers, stacks of pamphlets. A giant SECURE TOMORROW

logo looms above, flanked by beaming likenesses of Robert

Arthur and Raymond Shaw. Anderson comes out and opens the

limo door for Raymond. Marco struggles out behind him:

Raymond steps just outside the entrance to his office.

PEDESTRIANS pass between them on the crowded sidewalk.

Huge posters featuring Raymond's face, emblazoned with

SECURE TOMORROW, stacked against the wall. A desk covered

with papers and enough take-out Chinese food for ten people,

and Raymond sits behind it, nursing a glass of wine, and

pointedly ignoring Melvin's notebook, while:

Now he picks up the dream book. Marco watches. Raymond

flips through the pages for a moment, dismissively. Then

stops at something Melvin has drawn. Frowns. Raises his

eyebrows. Closes it, sets it down:

Raymond and Ellie. Through the wavy glass we see a crowded

dining room, the ever-present Secret Service.

A BUSBOY delivers Ellie her meal: a thick steak stuffed with

viscous grey -- off Raymond's disgust:

She starts to cut meat into child-like, bite-sized pieces

and put them on a side plate, for Raymond.

Ellie stops, sighs, puts her fork down and reaches for the

oversized-satchel that doubles as her briefcase and purse.

Ellie finds two thick files and plops them down, as

punctuation, in front of Raymond.

Establishing --

PHOTOGRAPHS - SCENE PHOTOS - AL MELVIN'S DEAD BODY

being pulled from the chilly waters of the Potomac.     Some

clinical AUTOPSY glossies.

Marco stares, troubled and sad, at bleak photographs of Al

Melvin's bloated, waterlogged corpse.

Across from him are three impatient FBI AGENTS (RAMIREZ,

GOLDRING and JONAS). Ramirez has the notebook Marco took

from Melvin's. Goldring pushes a tiny digital tape recorder

closer to Marco:

Marco hesitates -- looks to Lt. Col. Howard, who sits

grimly, off the one side, with Col. Garret.

A lone woman, SPECIAL AGENT VOLK, sits in a distant corner

on a folding chair. She's implacable, staring intently at

Marco. Ramirez holds up the notebook -- a page of crazy

drawings and text.

Marco carefully, respectfully stacks the photographs of

Melvin and turns them over. Exchanges a glance with the

female agent.

Colonel Garret shoves Marco back into a chair, stays in the

middle of the fracas, while --

The Federal Agents retreat with their bloodied-nose, cold-

cocked colleague, door slamming behind them.

Only Agent Volk remains, unmoved by what just occurred.

CLOSE ON - MARCO, catching his breath.

Ellie eats, while Raymond flips through Marco's extensive

file: cross-agency surveillance, Army psychological

profiling, FBI updates. Repeated buzzwords like: "mentally

unstable," "obsessed with Raymond Shaw," "delusional,"

"borderline functional," "acute stress disorder ..."

Raymond stares at an old PHOTOGRAPH OF MARCO: curled up in a

fetal position, on a V.A. hospital bed.

Marco with Howard, who's visibly upset. He likes Marco, it

breaks his heart to watch him unravelling like this. Agent

Volk remains in her chair, on the other side of the room:

The door opens, and Col. Garret comes in, with Agent

Goldring, who gives Marco back his personal effects, and:

Agent Volk closes her notebook and moves past Goldring as he

picks up the tape recorder. She glances at Howard, and

leaves the room.

A beat.   Marco, trying to process all this:

micro-circuitry, neat as a pin --

TIGHT - THROUGH A STEREOSCOPIC MICROSCOPE - THE IMPLANT

falls into focus, smooth and etched with integrated circuits

as intricate and beautiful as a henna tattoo ...

Delp looks up from the microscope, at Marco.

-- leaves the statement hanging --

Delp freaked and hyper, gathering wires and whatnot from

shelves -- a veritable armload, as:

He throws the switch, sending electric current through

Marco's head --

-- Marco's body ARCHES off the table and he goes into

seizure --

IMAGES FADE IN AND OUT:

OUT.

Laurent, gas mask down, confers with a pilot. FADE OUT.

OUT.

ELECTRIC IMPLANT device FIRES its package into the skin

near Marco's shoulder-blade. FADE OUT.

up. FADE OUT.

away --

past other platoon members, wires and I.V. tubes snaking

upward, watching animated Raymond Shaw hero footage on a

plasma screen, patriotic music BLARING.

there --

-- but DOWN, TACKLED ... FADE OUT.

sandstorm -- the dust clearing to reveal ... weary,

dazed, exhausted soldiers in the middle of nowhere, under   an

angry sun ...

... the SCREEN BLOOMS WHITE, and completely empty -- like an

Arabian desert --

Marco opens his eyes to the glare of a crisp autumn sun,

surreal colors: blue sky, shimmering green, the skyline.

His head is in Rosie's lap, he lies curled in the grass.

A banana-yellow motorized model plane buzzes in tight

circles overhead.

Beat.   She smiles.   She leans in, kisses him lightly.

Rosie opens her mouth --

Two beats of silence, then --

Marco wakes up. Clear headed. Calm. Rosie is asleep

beside him on the bed. The television is off.

Marco drinks water from the faucet, wipes his mouth. Stares

at himself in the mirror -- he looks like death warmed over.

Starts to smile ...

... but his eyes stray up to the half-open mirror of the

vanity -- reflecting, behind him, the bathroom wall: towel

racks, wall paper, a high VENT ... with a FAINT RED LED

glowing INSIDE.

JUMP CUT: MARCO

Standing on the edge of the tub, stretched out, face pressed

up to the vent, trying to see inside --

SUBJECTIVE: MARCO (B&W) - THROUGH THE VENT

Looking back at Marco, peering in.   Slightly warped by the

lens. Freaking out.

RESUME - MARCO

He can just make out the shadow of a TINY VIDEO CAMERA,

wires snaking back into the ducting, micro-lens adjusting

automatically to focus.

He slips off the tub, nearly falls, catches himself --

Marco taping newspapers over all the heating vents --

INT. ROSIE'S COUSIN'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Marco going through cupboard, drawers, closets, looking for

... what, exactly?

He doesn't know. His world is caving in.   He pivots, looks

at Rosie, still sleeping.

INT. ROSIE'S COUSIN'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Rosie's purse is dumped out on the table, and now Marco's

going through her suitcase.

He's dressed, now, even has his coat on.

Pulling out her clothing, discovering, at the bottom:

FILE FOLDERS, NOTES, REPORTS

Much of the same material that Eleanor Shaw showed Raymond.

Incriminating stuff about Marco, timetables, surveillance

photographs, psychiatric evaluations and

AUDIO TAPES

Microcassettes, neatly labelled with dates and hours ...

INTERCUT - SUBJECTIVE: SAME (B&W) - SURVEILLANCE

Rosie, rolling off the bed, sleepy, crossing to where Marco

is gathering the files --

Sees the hard look on Marco's face. Newspapers over all the

vents. Opens her mouth to explain but Marco SWINGS HARD,

and hits her -- she partially blocks it with her forearm --

backhands her onto the floor --

-- then he's moving, out the door --

She leaps at him -- SHOVES him hard into the wall, and when

he whirls to shake her off, slips down and uses his weight

and momentum to toss Marco crashing halfway back across the

room.

Now she's between him and the door.

He tries to get past her again --

THEY FIGHT

Rosie can't beat him, but she's extremely skilled -- Marco

gets stung twice by hard rights -- but whirls, all-defense,

an improvised rope-a-dope that gives him the opening he

needs --

-- he SMACKS Rosie sharply, stunning her -- and as she rocks

backward he flies out the door --

Marco bursts out of the doorway, into the grey light of

morning, and runs, the files fluttering under his arm.

A CARETAKER rattling keys impatiently behind him, Marco

stands looking down into the pit of the abandoned lab.

Delp and the monkeys are gone. Empty cages and unplugged

equipment are all that remain of Delp and his fear project.

The utter quiet is deafening.

Marco moving, head down, eyes everywhere -- anybody could be

following him. Anybody could be watching him. Anybody

could be part of this.

PRELAP sound of a tape fast-forwarding and:

scrolling old newspapers in a BLUR.

WHIR of rewinding audio --

Marco deep in research, at a small table covered with books

and paper -- a crazy man's kind of chaos.

The file he stole from Rosie's is disemboweled across the

desktop. A library tape machine plays one of the

surveillance tapes he's stolen from Rosie's:

INTERCUT - MICROFICHE

stories flip past ...

INTERCUT - TAPE MACHINE

tape rewinding again, then:

Marco, on the bed, numb.

Rosie puts her arms around him --

-- Marco doesn't react -- WHIR of audio fast-forward --

Marco takes his thumb off the shuttle button and --

... Finding, finally, an inside page of the SCIENCE &

TECHNOLOGY section of the Times, with the headline:

... and a p.r. PHOTO of Managing Director David R. Donovan,

smiling, flanked by a TEAM OF SCIENTISTS. The caption only

mentions Donovan by name -- in the picture his hand is

extended, he's got a tiny implant device cupped in his palm.

Marco stares at the photograph.

PANNING TIGHT - ACROSS THE SCIENTISTS

in the b.g. of the photograph.    HOLDING on one, half-hidden,

just slightly out of focus.

It's Noyle.

A long beat.   Marco racks his memory.   Then --

PUSH in until Noyle is just a mass of pixels --

A Google search.   Marco types the name: NOYLE.

INTERCUT - COMPUTER SCREEN

A GOVERNMENT website:

Thumbnail photos of "25 SCIENTISTS ACCUSED OF HUMAN

EXPERIMENTATION ON POLITICAL PRISONERS."

SCROLLING DOWN ... UNTIL a photo of Atticus Noyle is center-

screen. Smiling out at us.

CLICK: HEADLINES -- "Capetown U. Scientist Expelled: Alleged

CIA Ties" -- "Genome Researcher Sought for Questioning by

The Hague" --

ON MARCO -- energized by what he's seeing --

CLICK: SLIDE OVER NOYLE'S FACE -- key words like "genetic

memory enhancement," "behavioral modification" ... a

QUICKTIME VIDEO that Marco activates, and --

His sanitized, early sales pitch, all digitized and degraded

-- an old web interview:

CLOSE - ON MARCO

staring, excited -- the freak from his nightmares is real --

Raining, hard. Marco hurrying toward the station entrance,

his research jammed under his arm, and in a grocery bag he's

found somewhere.

Collides with a guy in a suit. Papers go everywhere --

Marco YELLS at the guy and scrambles to pick up his

documents, shoving people out of the way --

SERIES OF STILL SURVEILLANCE PHOTOS - SAME

Marco scrambling to get his stuff back together.    He looks

like a crazy street person.

A sun throws yellow across the Mall, and the Senate Office

buildings are ribboned with shadows.

Jordan behind his desk, staring at a white business card

while a high-strung AIDE leans in, talking low:

The calling card is Marco's, from Army Intelligence. Jordan

flips it over. Marco has scrawled "DO YOU STILL WANT TO BE

VICE PRESIDENT?"

Through a gap in the doorway, Jordan can SEE Marco sitting

in his outer office, bag of evidence at his feet, hunched

forward, staring at the floor.

At the mention of the Shaw name, Jordan looks up --

Jordan sits behind the table, all of Marco's documents and

evidence arranged tidily in front of him in meager piles,

Marco pacing, watching as Jordan finishes examining a thick

Atticus Noyle computer print out.

He sits down, opposite Jordan.

He puts the Noyle file down, pushes everything away.

Raymond entering, closing the door behind him as Ellie

throws documents across the room at Jordan:

Now they see Raymond, under the imposing Andrew Wyeth

painting of Tyler Prentiss that dominates one whole wall of

the study, and Ellie stops.

Raymond smiles -- it's terrifying -- the fragile, forced,

frigid smile of a man in pain.

Jordan picks up a picture of Noyle and smoothes it onto the

desk for Raymond to see, as:

-- In his dreams.

Raymond heads for the door --

Raymond slows -- curious to be addressed like this -- sound

of the desert wind rises --

He's turning -- the room coming alive -- light shifting,

intensifying -- that terrible vividness -- and the wall of

the zaghareet ...

EXTREMELY CLOSE ON - ELLIE

Marco jolts awake, as if from a bad dream, startled --

cramped on a bench, just another rumpled, weary traveler --

early morning commuters gliding past him like a fog.

A lacy fog rising from the reeds on the shoreline as the

Senator drags his kayak from under the pilings of a

pristine, clapboard cottage to the edge of the water.

The house is beautiful, everything perfect. FLOAT through

FINDING Jocie in a back bedroom, waking slowly in a huge

bed, rolling to look out the window and watch her father, in

his kayak, paddling away ...

Marco grabs a coffee from off a Starbucks counter, picks up

his bag and heads toward the New York City line platform, to

catch his train --

The Senator rows with confidence, his bow cuts the glassy

surface of the bay, fog ripples away from him, dreamy.

Up ahead, he can see the ghost of his house.      And a figure

on the shoreline.

JORDAN

stops paddling, and lets the kayak drift in.      He's breaking

hard, sweat glistening on his face.

RAYMOND

sloshes down into the water, wades out waist-deep --

Raymond catches the bow of the kayak, turns it.

With one motion, Raymond RIPS the two-blade paddle out of

Jordan's hand, and FLIPS the boat over --

-- Jordan goes under, legs trapped in the kayak --

flailing -- trying to get out of the kayak, incapacitated by

the cold water --

Jocie wanders, sleepy, into the main room, pulling on a

hooded sweatshirt -- and SEES, THROUGH THE BAY WINDOWS:

-- her father's upended kayak.

-- a figure in the water, as if trying to save him --

Jocie sprints down toward the water, screaming --

-- Raymond turns and sees her running toward him. For a

moment time stands still -- Jocie trying to process Raymond

Shaw in the water with her father, and Raymond trying to

process, through the curtain of his fractured consciousness,

Jocelyn Jordan.

JOCELYN

leaps into the water, thinking she'll help with a rescue.

The cold hits her like a sledgehammer -- followed by the

realization Raymond's trying to drown her father --

She tries to shove Raymond away from the boat, but

RAYMOND

turns, grabs her by the hood of her sweatshirt --

-- and whipsaws her out into the deeper water, shoving her

under it.

Jocelyn's hands claw at him, but he's stronger, and the

water has no effect on him.

She thrashes wildly ... and he looks down at her through the

water, hair flowing, utterly beautiful ... as if in a dream.

police, paramedics, bodies pulled from the water, Jordan's

empty house.

Ellie stops, looks at him.

Rosie asleep. PUSH IN RAPIDLY ... then a HAND comes down

hard and efficiently against her throat --

-- she wakes up, fighting for air --

He sits on top of her, pinning her arms down.   She struggles

to say something. Marco shakes his head.

Beat.   Silence, broken only by their breathing.

He gets up -- Rosie's not going to shoot him --

frowning --

DREAMSCAPE - AS BEFORE

Raymond hands a service revolver past Noyle, to

MARCO -- who primes it, aims --

-- MARCO SHOOTS BAKER IN THE FOREHEAD --

Raymond awakens with a startled about, face flushed,

sweating. Terrified --

-- Raymond finds himself in the back seat of his limo, his

campaign aide Mirella, her assistant, and Anderson, all

startled and shouting too --

Raymond sits up.

Raymond emerges to cameras and fanfare -- it's election day,

and he's going to vote.

Anderson and other agents clear a path up the steps into the

ELEMENTARY SCHOOL VOTING SITE. Reporters shout questions

that Raymond just answers with his professional smile.

A temporary polling place. Flags, tables, not too crowded.

VOTERS stepping out of the way. POLL VOLUNTEERS pressing in

to shake hands and wish Raymond Shaw good luck. And

ROSIE

on the edge. She badges Anderson, and talks to him. He

nods, moves over and talks quietly to Raymond as Raymond

signs his name in the voter registration log.

Then lets Rosie guide him to a booth on the end --

pulls the giant lever, the curtains close, finds --

A NOTE -- folded, taped to the machine.

RAYMOND -- opens it, reads it.

VOTING BOOTH - MOMENTS LATER

the curtain opens and Raymond steps out, smiling again.

Cameras flash, video crews wave boom mikes, expecting a

sound bite:

Laughter. He whispers to a poll volunteer, and she points

him down a hallway --

Raymond, Rosie and his Secret Service detail -- Rosie leads

them to a doorway, holds it open for Raymond, but puts her

hand lightly on Anderson's chest when he starts to go in to

sweep the room --

Small, and private. Raymond turns on the light. Marco is

in the corner, waiting. His Noyle File in one hand.

Raymond locks the door, turns, takes in the room: tiny

chairs and tables, walls covered with kids' drawings, and

nearly every object in the room named and labelled with 3x5

cards.

Beat.

Raymond looks up at Ben.     Emotionless.   Uncomprehending.

down the hallway, standing sentinel. Anderson checks his

watch, glances uncomfortably back at the door -- then at

Rosie, who just stares him down.

Tears run down his face, but his voice is normal, he stays

expressionless. He rubs his eyes with the heel of his hand.

KNOCKING on the door.

Raymond's cell phone RINGS.

Raymond takes the ringing phone from his inside pocket, and

checks the number of who's calling.

A class BELL RINGS --

Students flood the hallway -- Laurent Tokar walks right past

Rosie and Anderson, heading toward the special ed room --

Raymond extends the phone to Marco.

Marco hesitates.   Me?   But takes the receiver --

on the phone in her lavish room:

Marco reacting quizzically -- sound of the distant windstorm

building --

EXTREME CLOSE UP - MARCO - HIS EAR -- at the phone:

MARCO'S EYES flicker to Raymond's eyes --

-- Marco's senses are quickening -- the light literally

changing around him -- that terrible LUMINOSITY -- as --

SOUND of fabric, in the wind -- the SANDSTORM RAGING --

Marco's eyes shining now, hyper-alert -- a warrior's eyes --

The happy chaos of screaming kids. Raymond emerges,

smiling. Surrounded immediately by Anderson and his secret

service detail, and escorted out of the building.

ROSIE

fights through the throng of students --

-- to the office door.   Now it's locked.   She bangs on it --

KICKS it open --

Empty. Marco gone. The Noyle File lies open -- and empty --

on the floor. She rushes through a connecting door --

-- third-grade students loud, happy, rehearsing a patriotic

"Abe Lincoln" election day skit -- no Marco here -- she's

lost him --

heading back to his car --

... the television ON, but silent: network election night

coverage ... numbers flashing. Arthur/Shaw are exit poll

winners in Alabama, Florida, Maryland, Pennsylvania, New

York ...

Raymond is dazzled by Eddie's radiance.

She straightens his tie.   Her hands caress her son's

shoulders.

Raymond moves to her -- their embrace is all consuming --

A DIZZYING OVERHEAD SHOT, slowly twisting: campaign

volunteers milling through empty chairs, dozens of t.v.

monitors glow with early election coverage, a STAGE BAND

warming up, bass thumping, the room festooned with "SECURE

TOMORROW" banners, and --

TWO VAST FLOOR-TO-CEILING, VIRTUAL WALL-TO-WALL SCREENS,

specially installed for the occasion, define the entire east

and west walls of the ballroom. They glow pure blue, as if

waiting --

A LAMINATED ALL-ACCESS SECURITY BADGE dangles from

Anderson's neck as he pushes the last screw back into a

cooling vent along the wall.

Anderson emerges as another SECRET SERVICE AGENT comes down

the hallway --

He closes the lighting room door.

remote-cam images of the empty stage and podium blink to

life, enormous, finding focus, and --

AT THE BACK OF THE BALLROOM - ENGINEERING CONSOLE

a DIRECTOR and a team of TECH GUYS murmur in headsets,

commanding a matrix of monitors, control panels and mixing

boards. ON ALL THE SCREENS: different views of the empty

stage, from various cameras.

just like Anderson's.   PAN UP:

MARCO -- resplendent in dress uniform, hair trimmed, a man

reborn. He looks so rejuvenated, for a moment even we don't

recognize him.

INT. SERVICE HALLWAY - MARCO

steps over television cables and power lines, follows their

drunken path to the end of a narrow corridor --

UNLIT CORRIDOR

Marco slips in and out of darkness.   Passing no one.   NOISE

echoing insanely from the ballroom.

Marco enters, closes the door. Takes his coat off and folds

it neatly and puts it on the floor. FOLLOW HIM as he stoops

to find a HIGH-TECH METAL CASE hidden in the air vent ...

... he opens it, revealing a disassembled SNIPER RIFLE,

stereo RANGEFINDER EYEPIECE, live rounds, sandbag, tripod

and a SIDEARM ...

... he turns toward the back of a MASSIVE WALL-GRID of LIGHT

FIXTURES facing outward to the auditorium, hot with RED-

WHITE-AND-BLUE radiance.

He walks to the grid and peers through it --

walks out of the back of the stage, a VIDEO A.D. with a

headset leading them, backpedaling, barking instructions

lost in the general din.

They all hold big, hand-printed NAME CARDS: Gov. Arthur's

aide, TATUM (GQ dreadlocks) clowns around with his "Pres.

ON THE SURVEILLANCE MONITOR

people whoosh through gates in digitized triple time --

-- there's Marco. The image slows. Marco moves herky-jerky

through the security station, stop-action. Rosie pretends

she's interested in somebody else -- then:

The tape resumes triple-time --

Deliberately hand-feeding live rounds of ammo into his rifle

-- CLICK, CLICK, CLICK --

-- he's ready.

Arthur and Shaw and their entourage explode victorious from

the back, just like in the rehearsal. ICONIC SAMPLING of

"regular Americans" in full-dress uniform accompany the

winners: a soldier, a sailor, a fireman, a marine, a

policeman, a fighter pilot, everybody waving, smiling.

THE CROWD -- ecstatic.

ROSIE

A tiny island of worry in a sea of celebration. The huge

light grids ripple with patriotic bunting effects.

She scans the crowd, the perimeter, the balconies ...

ON THE GIANT SCREEN, BEHIND THE STAGE

an ENORMOUS close-up of Arthur --

THE TWO COLOSSAL WALL-TO-WALL SCREENS

are alive with soaring, IMAX-style postcard footage of

Americana: Monument Valley, Pike's Peak, Columbia River,

golden waving fields of wheat -- city skylines -- perfect

beaches -- majestic off-shore oil rigs -- galloping herds of

buffalo -- the breathtaking grandeur of American nature,

American achievements --

INTERCUT - MONITORS

Various angles on-stage of Arthur, his wife, his family,

close and loose --

Crosshairs finding, locking on Arthur -- who is waving, and

slowing to shake on-stage supports' hands --

staring up at the left-side lighting grid ... where she

thinks she saw movement. As it blinks OFF, and then ON

again in a different pattern, there's the SILHOUETTE of

something.

A figure behind the grid.    Marco?   She's sure of it --

-- and she's moving, pushing her way toward an exit, pulling

a tiny walkie-talkie from her pocket and yelling into it --

Rock-steady on Arthur and his hundred-watt smile, as he now

separates from the procession and moves to his center stage

mark -- just like in the rehearsal.

The crowd begins to CHANT.

Calm and focused. Smiling.     His mother leans close,

whispers something --

Rosie joined in stride by Feds from the command center --

SOUND of the celebration booms through the building --

Rosie leads the way, two steps at a time, pulling her gun

from her holster and checking the clip --

clear and unwavering -- his pupil tightening as --

Arthur turns to Raymond and gestures --

Her eyes shining as Raymond steps forward -- the ROAR of the

crowd --

He slips his finger through the trigger guard --

Cross-hairs on Arthur. But a DARK BLUR suddenly passes in

front of Arthur, momentarily ECLIPSING Marco's view --

A few of the camera monitors have empty frames, waiting for

Raymond to arrive, but --

ON THE STAGE - SAME TIME

Raymond has joined Arthur center-stage, instead of moving to

the rehearsed first mark --

his finger motionless inside the trigger guard --

But Raymond is blocking Arthur now --

Frowning. Raymond has made Marco's shot impossible -- kill

Arthur, and he kills Raymond too.

coming off the eyepiece of the scope.

Appalled at Raymond's departure from the plan.

clearing the way for BODY BAGS emerging on stretchers, one,

two ... three -- this third one guided and fiercely attended

by Rosie through the confusion -- shoved into a waiting

morgue truck ... WE ARE:

watching the mayhem at the Regent Wall Street ballroom.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: a numb collection of horrified

Manchurian Global executive office employees, watching in

silence ... a visibly shaken Whiting, ashen-faced, head in

his hands, eyes red with tears, and Johnston, stunned,

pacing --

TIGHTEN ON DONOVAN. Expressionless, except for a cryptic

frown. He raises his arm and uses a remote to kill the

picture.

flickering on. The SECURITY FOOTAGE of Marco entering the

Regent Wall Street hotel. His face turned away.

ANOTHER FRAME

Marco turning toward us. His FACE becoming artificially

highlighted, digitized -- MORPHED. ZOOM IN as his features

BEGIN TO CHANGE. Non-descript. New features emerging.

Caucasian. Not Marco. CLICKING of a keyboard, and --

ROSIE'S REFLECTION -- becomes visible across the screen of

THE VIDEO MONITOR on which the security footage flickers.

We are:

Where an ENGINEER works keyboard and mouse, digitally

altering the footage of Marco is Rosie watches, intently,

from just behind him.

Further back in the same room ... another senior FEDERAL

AGENT, Special Agent VOLK, from Marco's interrogation ...

and Colonel Garret leans against the far wall, arms folded,

expressionless.

