BARE WHITE ROOM

Thirty feet square. CRIS JOHNSON, wearing a jail uniform,

sits in a HEAVY CHAIR that is bolted to the floor. Mid-

twenties, jaded, rebellious, handsome as a statue, Cris

radiates a serene, if somewhat scruffy, charisma.

He faces a PLASMA SCREEN MONITOR on a bare wall. To the left

of the screen, an unframed MIRROR; to the right, a DIGITAL

CLOCK-CALENDAR.

A WOMAN'S FACE appears on the plasma screen. CALLIE FERRIS.

Thirty. Tailored. Angular. Kate Hepburn-ish.

Ferris' face is replaced on the plasma screen by a series of

random video clips. Hang-gliding. Traffic jam. Volcano

erupting.

Cris looks at the clock. 16:32 / March 9, 2006. He squints

and the clock speeds up a little.

In a few seconds, the clock reads 16:37.

On the monitor. Ferris' image has been replaced by footage of

surfers riding big waves in Hawaii.

Varied images fast forward on the plasma screen. He arrives

at 16:47 and reports on what he sees.

Cris looks ahead and squints.

CLOCK

Minutes whiz by.

PLASMA SCREEN

Clips play and change almost too fast to be recognized.

Clock

Cris gets to 19:00 -- and keeps going.

Mirror

Cris has a five o'clock shadow.

Clock

Hours tick off like an accelerating metronome.

Mirror

Cris sports a three-day stubble. He struggles to get out of

the chair, but he is now strapped into it, bound at the wrist

and ankle. His face fills with rage.

Plasma screen

The evening news zips by. Talking heads. Reportage.

Mirror

Like a window into a time machine. Cris' beard lengthens. He

grows pale. His clothes change every few seconds. Rage gives

way to the panic of a man trapped on a runaway train.

Plasma screen

The news dissolves into a blur.

Mirror

Cris ages before his own eyes. Wrinkles etch into skin. Hair

greys, recedes. Outrage ebbs into hollow resignation as Cris

watches himself waste away.

Cris' tired old eyes look up, confused.

INT. VEGAS HOTEL COFFEE SHOP - DAY

A perky young WAITRESS stands over him, holding a pot of

coffee.

On cris

Young again.

She sets it on the table with a flirtatious smile. He takes

it to the register and pays cash.

A moment later, A SECOND CRIS follows the first Cris to the

register, repeating his every movement.

As Cris 2 pays cash, Cris 1 proceeds into the casino.

Cris 2 follows, literally walking in Cris 1's footsteps.

A DRUNK bumps into Cris 1 and spills his Daiquiri on him.

Cris 2 -- the real Cris -- follows a moment later and

sidesteps the Drunk, who spills his Daiquiri on someone else.

Cris 2 reaches the gaming tables and merges with Cris 1.

A roulette ball skitters indecisively between two grooves

before settling into one of them.

Slot machines. Horse racing. Sports games.

He passes the MILLION DOLLAR SLOT. Stops, like it's calling

out to him.

Cris notices a DESPERATE GAMBLER on the verge of tears.

Clearly, he's dropped a bundle. Cris approaches him and

points to the MILLION DOLLAR SLOT.

Cris offers the guy a handful of silver dollars.

While the Gambler dawdles, a MIDWESTERN DOWAGER plants

herself at the MEGA-SLOT and starts feeding it dollars.

Cris sighs and walks off.

The Gambler watches him go, then reacts to BELLS, FLASHING

LIGHTS, and SHRIEKS OF CELEBRATION. The Dowager has hit the

MEGA-JACKPOT.

Blackjack section

Cris takes a stool at a crowded table.

Cris antes up. Cards are dealt. He's got a four showing.

Taking a hit, he goes bust with a jack. So in real time, he

sticks.

The dealer turns over his cards. He's got a king and a deuce.

So he has to draw. Pulls the jack. Busted.

The dealer pays Cris, then presses a button under the table.

INT. SURVEILLANCE ROOM

Banks of video monitors display images from the multitude of

cameras looking down from above the gaming tables. The

SURVEILLANCE SUPERVISOR, HAWKEYE, repositions in response to

a red light so he can look over a Surveillance Operator's

shoulder and study Cris.

INT. office of casino boss - DIFFERENT CASINO - DAY

The Stalin-faced CASINO BOSS sits behind his desk.

He's talking to Callie Ferris. We recognize her sardonic

beauty from the plasma screen in Cris's pre-vision. In

person, she's edgy, confident, and impatient with those who

aren't as quick as she is.

She answers her cell phone.

She stands, disconnects, and hands the Casino Boss her

business card.

She's already out the door.

Video monitor: close on cris

Relaxed. Playing blackjack. The FEMALE DEALER tries not to

gawk at him as she deals from a shoe.

Pull back: surveillance room

Ferris and DAVIS, the casino's dapper CHIEF OF SECURITY,

stand behind Hawkeye, the Surveillance Supervisor, and study

Cris on various monitors.

On a monitor, Cris pockets some of his chips.

On another monitor, A COCKTAIL WAITRESS takes orders from the

players.

As Ferris watches Cris on the monitor, he becomes still and

attentive, as if sensing danger. He squints a little, the way

we do when we try to remember something.

INT. CASINO/BLACKJACK TABLE - DAY

As Cris signals for another card, TWO BLACK SUITS appear

behind him.

Cris takes in their grim faces. Turns to see two more pairs

of goons stationed nearby.

Thirty seconds ago

The COCKTAIL WAITRESS approaches to take Cris' order.

This time, Cris hurriedly scoops all his chips into his coat

pocket, jostling the Waitress as he stands.

Hustling away, he glances back just as the first TWO BLACK

SUITS reach his stool, but this time it's empty. They look

around. One of them whispers into his mike. The three pairs

of goons get instructions and split up.

Tracking shot / eye level

Cris strides crisply through the casino. Sees another PAIR OF

BLACK SUITS, scanning for him. He ducks into the maze of

slots. Zigs and zags from aisle to aisle, seemingly at

random. A moment after each turn, a Black Suit appears ahead,

behind, or to the side - where they would have spotted Cris.

Tracking shot / high angle

A clearer perspective as TWO BLACK SUITS approach Cris' aisle

from different directions. Cris has no way to see them or

know they're coming, but at the last moment, he MOVES in

between two aisles where neither guard will see him as they

pass.

surveillance room

Davis and Hawkeye wince as the Black Suits keep missing their

quarry.

Ferris watches the chase, fascinated.

Phalanxes of slot machines

Black Suits converge from various directions, in that fake-

calm fast-walk.

Cris studies the gamblers playing the machines nearby, then

heads to a particular spot - where he is sure to be spotted -

except that a TEXAS-SIZED MAN repositions himself, blocking

the Black Suit's view.

The Black Suit moves on. Cris shifts to another spot just as

a different Black Suit arrives at the other end of the aisle.

This time, THREE FRAT BOYS change machines and obscure Cris

from his gaze.

surveillance room

Davis is throwing a fit.

Cris slips away in the shadow of the Frat Boys.

Convention annex

Arriving at the foyer, Cris sees Five Meeting Rooms. He

squints then decisively enters one of them.

FOUR BLACK SUITS arrive an instant later. Without wasting a

beat, each of them goes through a different door. All except

the one Cris went through.

Cris re-emerges a moment later and heads back toward the

casino.

Casino

Ferris, arriving, adjusts her headset.

Cris sees her. Recognizes her from his prevision as the woman

on the plasma screen. Turns and walks away.

She sees Cris. Takes off after him.

Security Staff converge on the area. Cris is in plain sight.

Suddenly a busload of tourists surge in through a door and

clog the way.

Cris continues into the...

Kitchen area

Passing a room service cart, he rolls it in front of him. A

few steps on, he takes the bottle of OLIVE OIL on the cart

and pours some in front of one random closed door. Cris then

shoves the room service cart down the hall toward an empty

intersecting corridor. A Black Suit barrels into the empty

intersection just as the cart arrives - and tumbles over it.

Behind Cris, a door swings open; a Black Suit charges out;

steps precisely into the puddle of poured olive oil - and

falls on his ass.

Cris slips by him, but gets cut off by an arriving group of

FOUR MORE BLACK SUITS. Big guys. They try to grab him. He

evades their grasp almost magically and, like a Shaolin Monk,

somehow leverages them into each other until they are in a

pile on the floor. Cris darts around them into the...

Lobby

He co-opts a luggage cart that is loaded up for delivery.

Rolling it to the left, a Black Suit on that side doesn't see

him - and moves on. Cris switches to the right side of the

card - just as a second Black Suit would have seen him.

Abandoning the cart, Cris sets off across the lobby in a

herky-jerky rhythm.

He walks four quick steps without being seen. Then stops

behind a column just as Black Suit 1 turns his way. When

Black Suit 1 looks on, Cris resumes his journey, cutting

across the lobby at an acute angle. In this way, he avoids

being seen by Black Suit 2. Cris now backs up three steps and

avoids being seen by Black Suit 3.

By precisely choosing his movements and knowing where his

hunters will be looking, Cris achieves something like

invisibility.

The last obstacle to daylight is Ferris. She sees him. He

makes a run for the door. She dashes after him.

Cris grabs a guest's suitcase and keeps moving.

The guest chases after Cris - and collides with Ferris,

knocking her to the ground. Which allows Cris to slip through

a door to the...

Ext. Hotel loading dock - DAY

Where TWO LAUNDRY DELIVERY MEN are flinging sacks of clothes

into the back of a truck. Cris steps toward the open tailgate

with a steady pace. As if on cue, both Laundry Guys turn and

bend to pick up another sack of clothes. Cris walks right by

them without being noticed -- and climbs into the truck. A

moment later, the Laundry Guys pivot back around, toss sacks

of clothes in after Cris, and slam the rear doors. They get

in the truck and drive off just as Ferris, Davis, and several

Black Suits arrive to find a cold trail.

Oddly, Ferris seems almost encouraged.

INT. DEPARTMENT OF HOMELAND SECURITY - las vegas regional

OFFICE - nIGHT

Ferris strides purposefully through hallways crowded with

people hustling just as urgently as she is. She enters the

large ante-room of a bigshot's office and addresses JEANNIE,

a civil service secretary.

Ferris absorbs the catastrophic news without emotion.

Ferris stares her down.

Leaves without waiting for a response.

ext. picnic in park - Day

Cris and a glowing YOUNG MOTHER hold a BABY BOY. Gazing into

the baby's eyes, Cris beams with perfect happiness. He plays

with the baby's fingers. The two middle ones are subtly

WEBBED BY A PIECE OF SKIN that comes about halfway up the

bottom knuckle. The image whites out as...

INT. LAUNDRY TRUCK - DAY

Sunlight pours into the back of the truck, revealing Cris

lounging on a mound of laundry sacks. He composes himself and

steps out, nonchalant as James Bond.

Computer simulation

The pursuit of Cris through the casino has been mapped into a

3-D visualization. Multiple camera angles have been merged so

that a single POV seamlessly follows Cris without cutting.

It's clear that Cris avoids trouble before he sees it.

INT. IMAGING lab - DAY

ERIC WISDOM, 38, stands next to Ferris as they watch the

simulation on a flat-screen monitor. Highly competent,

solidly masculine, Spencer Tracy to her Hepburn, you can rely

on him in your average emergency. Which this is not.

Ferris steps close to Wisdom.

Wisdom steps away from her.

Ouch.

He finds her both infuriating and irresistible.

He stalks out of the room, leaving her more thwarted than

sad.

DRIVER'S POV: TRAFFIC IN VEGAS

An elevated freeway. Driving behind a pick-up truck carrying

a mattress and box spring.

Ext./INT. Cris' car - DAY

Cris drives an old Camaro, muscle-y but inconspicuous.

Cris changes lanes to get from behind the truck.

In his rearview mirror, Cris sees the mattress fall off the

truck, causing an accident.

He sees a plume of smoke in the distance.

He takes the next exit.

He turns into the parking lot of a bookie shop, THE FINISH

LINE.

INT. The finish line - DAY

Cris walks to the counter. Addresses the manager.

INT. homeland security regional hq - internal security office

- DAY

TERRY BAINES, plainclothed HEAD OF PROTECTIVE SERVICES for

the Facility, walks down the corridor with three of the

better-trained MILITARY POLICE who have been brought in to

augment the regular staff of civilian FEDERAL PROTECTIVE

SERVICE POLICE. Baines is a handsome former Special Forces

Lieutenant, early-forties, who takes his work very seriously.

Ferris runs to catch up with him. He doesn't slow down for

her.

She gives him a look. There's some mutual attraction, but not

a lot of affection.

While Baines arches a dubious eyebrow, an intellectual junior

analyst, AMANDA, catches up with Ferris.

Ferris takes Amanda's PRINTOUT and glances at it on the run:

it's a PHOTO of Cris on a WANTED BULLETIN.

She hustles off with Amanda.

INT. BACK ROOM AT THE FINISH LINE - DAY

A smoky office with a big screen tv and a poker table, but no

card players. Cris is greeted by GUY, relaxed, professional,

smartly dressed, mid-forties. He's classier than the joint he

runs.

A look, a hug. A lot of history.

He starts setting them in stacks on the poker table.

INT. State police STATION - dAY

Computer monitor on a desk plays Cris' escape from the

casino.

LT. CAVANAUGH, middle-aged hunter type, beer belly but still

a menace.

Cavanaugh takes a videocassette from a pile on his messy

desk.

He pops the tape into a VCR. Presses play.

On the monitor

Low-quality security camera recording of a liquor store at

night. Business is good. FIVE PEOPLE wait in line at the

register. Time code reads November 11, 2004. Cris walks in,

unsteady on his feet. Heads for the beer locker. Pauses.

Suddenly runs toward the register at full speed and TACKLES A

CUSTOMER, shoving him hard to the floor. Cris prepares to

hold him down, but the tackled man just lies there, a pool of

blood forming under his head. Cris looks up. The customers

are gaping at him, terrified.

Cris sees that they're afraid of him, not the dead man. He

runs out. PAUSE TAPE.

Back to scene

Cavanaugh studies Ferris' reaction.

INT. BACK ROOM AT THE FINISH LINE - DAY

Guy finishes counting Cris' chips.

Guy opens a drawer, takes out a pack of a hundred $100's, and

counts out an additional sum from his pocket.

Guy returns to his antique copper espresso machine and starts

to make two cups.

While Guy is distracted making espresso, Cris jams the desk

drawer shut with a penny.

Guy slams his fist.

Guy calms himself and sets an espresso in front of Cris.

Cris picks up the cup and knocks it back.

Ext. finish line - Parking lot - DAY

Cris starts up the car. Notices he's woozy. He prepares to

back out. Instead he blacks out -- as Guy and THREE MEN drag

him out of the car.

Guy's office

Guy sets the cup of espresso in front of Cris, who picks it

up. But Instead of knocking it back, he sets it down and

grins cryptically at Guy, who senses something and reaches to

open his top desk drawer - the one Cris pennied shut. Guy

can't get it open. Guy reaches under his Racing Form. Feels

around. Cris holds up a knife.

Guy pulls his arm from under the Racing Form -- spilling the

cup of espresso that Cris just set down. Guy knows that's not

a coincidence.

Cris takes his cash.

Cris heads out.

Cris scoffs as he leaves.

INT. State police STATION - dAY

Cavanaugh pours coffee for himself and Ferris.

Ferris tries to make sense of it all.

Cavanaugh sighs woefully.

A painful subject for Cavanaugh.

Cavanaugh nods knowingly.

Ext. Suburban home - las vegas - niGHT

A tract house, cheap, from the 60's, could be anywhere.

Something sad about the place. Cris stands at the door,

holding a bag of groceries. IRV, a sick old man, opens the

door, wearing a knit cap and pajamas. He's hooked up to a

little oxygen tank on wheels. When he sees Cris, his smile

crimps the tube in his nose.

Irv pulls Cris inside. Closes the door.

INT. irv's house - night

They embrace like father and son. The oxygen tube gets in the

way.

Irv shakes his head.

INT. The finish line - back room - night

Cavanaugh and Ferris chat with Guy. This time the poker game

is in progress.

Guy turns to Ferris.

He looks at Ferris, knowing. She turns to Cavanaugh.

INT. FINISH LINE - MAIN PARLOR - NIGHT

Guy and Ferris sip cappucino.

INT. Irv's house / living room - night

The place is a mess. Piles of newspapers. Old clothes. Cris

cleans up as they talk. Irv sits at a table and plays

solitaire.

Irv is moved by Cris' dilemma.

Irv shakes his head with sympathy for Cris' plight.

Cris doesn't answer. His gaze is distant.

Cris focuses.

Cris thinks. Shakes his head.

INT. Irv's kitchen - DAY

Cris makes a lamb roast, studding it with cloves of garlic.

Cris puts the roasting pan in the oven.

Irv stops shuffling the cards.

Cris holds up his hand, revealing that the skin between his

two middle fingers is webbed a little higher than normal.

Cris laughs...then suddenly stops.

He walks to the door and opens it to discover Ferris standing

there, with her finger about to press the doorbell.

She regards Cris with appreciation.

She enters. Tries not to be intimidated by his ability or

appearance. Sees Irv, watching them.

Once out of Ferris' eyeline, Irv queries Cris with his hand

in the shape of a gun. Cris shakes his head, then turns to

Ferris - and waits for her to begin.

Her gravity anchors him.

Cris guards his reaction.

Ferris looks at him, disapproving.

She lets that sink in.

Cris's expression grows dark. He looks at Ferris accusingly,

then BOLTS away, toward the KITCHEN.

Cris covers his eyes and dives to the floor as STUN GRENADES

shatter windows and explode with a FLASH.

Gas grenades follow.

Cris scrambles to his feet as a NEVADA POLICE SWAT TEAM

bursts through windows and doors, wearing gas masks and

goggles, scanning with laser-guided rifles. They find Cris,

dashing for the back door. Open fire.

Cris tumbles, dodges a few bullets, then takes a hit in the

shoulder, the back, the leg. Staggers forward. Absorbs dozens

of bullets.

Falls.

Lies there.

Dying.

Cavanaugh steps up to deliver the final shot.

INT. Irv's house / living room - an hour AGO

Cris doesn't answer. His gaze is distant.

Cris focuses.

Cris takes the pack of cash he got from Guy, pulls out more

than half the bills, and sets them on a table.

Cris shakes his head and embraces Irv.

They're both choked up.

A last look.

Ext. irv's street - dAY

Cris' approaches his parked Camaro with his key out.

CAVANAUGH and SIX TROOPERS spring from hiding, guns trained

on him.

Camera pans to cris

In Irv's back yard, watching this scene.

Ext. ALLEY BEHIND IRV'S HOUSE - DAY

A State Trooper keeps watch, smoking. When he steps on the

butt, Cris enters the frame in the background. When the

Trooper turns to a wall to piss, Cris crosses the alley,

unseen. When Cris passes out of frame, the Trooper finishes,

unaware of what he has missed.

Ext. outskirts of vegas - night

A Route 66-vintage highway with stop lights and tawdry

commercial development. Cris stands on the shoulder, thumbing

a ride. Cars and trucks pass without stopping.

FAST FOWARD through endless traffic until an OLD CHEVROLET

pulls over. Cris checks his watch. It's 8:23.

SIDE OF THE ROAD

Chris checks his watch. It's 7:57.

He looks around. Sees a donut shop. Heads toward it.

INT. Irv's house - night

Cavanaugh's State Troopers, guns drawn, are searching the

place on a hair-trigger, ready to blow away anything that

moves.

She points to Cavanaugh's troopers.

As Cavanaugh grudingly walks off to deliver the message, Irv

approaches Ferris.

She walks off, leaving Irv to regret he opened his mouth.

INT. donut shop - night

Cris steps in. Goes to the counter.

As he waits, he sees a vague REFLECTION in the GLASS DISPLAY

CASE: a SQUARE CROSS, coming into focus.

Puzzled, Cris looks up and around to see the object that's

being reflected. He can't find it. Cris turns back to the

display case, but the reflection is gone. The DONUT GIRL

gives him his order.

Cris takes it, turns, and notices LIZ COOPER sitting by

herself at a booth, circling items in the classified section.

He recognizes her as the future mother of his future child.

Cris gazes at her face, which is both childish and mature,

shy yet indomitable.

She turns, scowling, from the staring stranger.

Cris approaches Liz and gives her that smile that always

works.

Cris seems disconcerted.

The Donut Girl gives Cris his order. He approaches Liz again

and tries a different opening line.

Liz looks at him like he's hopeless. He notices that she's

reading the used car ads.

The Donut Girl gives Cris his order. He approaches Liz.

The Donut Girl gives Cris his order. He approaches Liz.

The Donut Girl gives Cris his order. Discouraged after all

that rejection, he approaches Liz -- and bobbles his coffee,

spilling it on the floor. He's mortified, but she smiles at

him.

The Donut Girl gives Cris his order. Now confident he's found

the right approach, Cris approaches Liz and deliberately

bobbles his coffee. But not in the exact way he did before.

When it falls, it splashes on her shoes.

She wipes her shoe with a napkin.

Disgusted, she hands him a stack of paper napkins.

She watches as he sops up the coffee and carries dripping,

soggy tissues to the trash. The miserable expression on his

face finally wins the smile he's been working for.

INT. Donut shop - night - a few minutes later

They're sitting across from each other, laughing.

Cris glances outside and sees the old Chevrolet drive by

without stopping. He checks his watch. It's 8:23.

She knows she shouldn't.

INT. JEEP CHEROKEE / on highway - nIGHT

Going fast. Johnny Cash on the CD.

He waits for the other shoe to drop.

Brake lights flare on the cars ahead. They pass an exit.

She shakes her head.

Traffic is backed up.

Flashing yellow lights - a barricade. Cris is getting

nervous.

Flashing blue lights - parked cop cars.

The place is crawling with state troopers. Cris is looking

around for a way out.

one MINUTE EARLIER - one mile back

Brake lights flare on the cars ahead.

The dotted lines on the road are now solid.

Cris grabs the steering wheel and jerks it to the right,

sending them over some speed bumps onto the off ramp.

She slams on the brakes and they screech to a stop on the

right shoulder of the exit ramp.

Cris scrambles for an explanation. Looks, sees a quieu of

brake lights from the roadblock now backed up past the exit.

Cris pauses for a beat. Takes a different tack.

She waits for him to exit.

Liz sighs, exasperated, and continues down the exit ramp,

passing a sign that says, WELCOME TO CALIFORNIA.

ext. road block - NIGHT

Cavanaugh and Ferris drink coffee as troopers examine every

passing vehicle.

Ferris comes to a decision.

Cavanaugh knows he's about to hear something wild.

Ext. Gas station/mini-mart - night

Gasoline flowing. Liz, still in a snit, sits impatiently

behind the wheel, watching in the mirror as Cris crosses

behind the car and knocks on her window. Grudgingly, she

lowers it. He holds out a lottery card.

Indulging him, she takes it. When he walks away, she deigns

to look at it. She tries to resist but can't. Gets out a

nickel and scratches the card. Wins $250. What the...?

CHUNK. The pump shuts off.

BEHIND THE CAR

Cris takes out the nozzle and twists on the cap. Behind him,

Liz strides by in a huff.

Cris smiles to himself as she proceeds toward the mini-mart.

exT. roadblock - NIGHT

Cavanaugh considers what Ferris has just told him.

Cavanaugh doesn't like her logic.

INT. liz's CAR ON a mountain ROAD - night

Willie Nelson on the CD player. Liz holds an Icee in one hand

while Cris feeds her Kettle Chips.

She's charmed, in spite of herself.

Ext. Liz's car - Outskirts of tahoe - nIGHT

Cris and Liz sing along with Patsy Cline on the radio. The

song ends as they hit the city limits.

She pulls over.

They're both reluctant to part.

He steps out and starts to close the door.

INT. The silver spur - night

Cowboy dive. Crowded for a week night. Liz leads Cris to the

bar where the BARTENDER is washing some glasses.

The Bartender and Liz exchange a look.

As he draws two pints, the Bartender leans toward Liz.

Bartender nods toward the pool tables, where RANDY, her ex,

plays 8-ball with a pal.

She turns to Cris.

Cris lays some money on the bar, and they head for the door.

But before they get there, Randy sees Liz and bounds after

her, holding a pool cue. He's much bigger and taller than

Cris.

She tries to slide by him. Randy blocks the way.

Cris steps between them.

Cris stands his ground. Locks eyes.

Randy holds Liz by the shoulders.

Liz resists. Cris grips Randy's arm.

Randy hauls off to slug Cris. Cris easily ducks the blow and

answers with a solid punch to the belly.

Randy recovers and realizes he's up against a skilled

opponent. He takes a stance, ready to get serious. He sticks

a few jabs at Cris, who easily slips from each one, like he

saw them coming a mile away. Randy goes for a hook. Cris

feints and lands an uppercut to Randy's chin. Most men would

go down, but Randy is so big, he stays up to take more

punishment.

Cris delivers an elegant beating that humiliates the big guy

and makes him look like an oaf. Cris puts an end to it by

breaking Randy's nose. The big guy falls to his knees,

bleeding.

Liz rushes to Randy's side, holding her ex and glowering up

at Cris like he's a sadistic brute.

Cris realizes he's blown it.

MOMENTS BEFORE

Liz resists. Cris grips Randy's arm.

Randy hauls off to slug Cris, who this time makes no effort

to duck. WHAM! Cris takes a sledgehammer in the mouth. Randy

follows up mercilessly, punching Cris in the gut, then

holding him up while he punches him again.

Liz grabs Randy's arm.

Randy flings her aside and finishes up   with a solid right to

Cris' jaw, that puts him on the floor.   Randy pulls back his

leg for a pointy-booted cowboy kick to   the ribs, when Liz

rushes to Cris' side and glowers up at   Randy like he's a

sadistic brute.

Randy realizes he's blown it -- and lets himself be pulled

out of the bar by a couple of buddies.

Liz examines Cris with concern.

She strokes Cris' hair.

Ext. Liz's cottage - night

In the foothills. Liz's car pulls up. Cris gets out, holding

a dish towel full of ice to his jaw.

Liz unlocks the front door. Turns on the lights.

INT. Liz's cottage - night

Cris looks around, sore but pleased that he has managed to

stay in Liz's company. The place is cozy, ranch-like.

She wets a washcloth with hot water.

She returns with a wet washcloth.

He lowers himself onto the sofa next to the table lamp. She

comes close and gingerly wipes the blood from his nose and

lips.

He looks in her eyes.

She tries to stay on task but gets drawn in by his gaze.

He leans forward. Their lips touch.

It gets more intense.

Then abruptly, she shies away, freaked.

ON THE SOFA

She wipes the blood from his nose and lips. He looks in her

eyes. She tries to stay on task, but she gets drawn in by his

gaze. He leans forward. Their lips almost touch. But this

time, Cris pulls back.

Liz is embarrassed.

She goes back to tending his wounds.

She looks at him, curious.

Something about his revelation unsettles her.

Tears well up in her eyes.

Cris looks at her with sympathy.

Cris comforts her. She looks up into his eyes expectantly.

Fighting the pull, he looks away for a moment to see where

this is going - then glances back at her, almost dizzy.

He kisses her with a quiet intensity that quickly ignites.

Their lovemaking unfolds as it would be experienced by Cris.

Effect before cause. The pleasure, then the gesture that

elicits it.

Cris explores her body until she sighs, then snapsback and

goes directly to the sweet spot. He strings together a

perfect melody of shudders and moans, without striking any

false notes along the way.

Moments are superimposed, diaphonous, played against each

other in counterpoint.

Visual harmonics, elastically out-of-sync. Rising to a

crescendo. Until all the futures resolve into a single now.

AFTERWARDS - nIGHT

Floating in bed. Her head on his chest. His eyes open, sadly

content, like he wishes he could stop time here forever. Like

he's afraid it will all disappear if he takes his eyes off

her.

Cris forces himself to look away into the distance.

int. WISDOM'S OFFICE / federal facility - night

Wisdom, exhausted, quietly confers with a cadre of ANALYSTS

AND OPERATIVES. Their voices are confident, but their body

language betrays their pessimism.

Ferris slips in and takes an empty chair.

Wisdom rubs his forehead, distraught.

No one disagrees.

The staff exchange uncertain glances.

He has blown them wide-eyed.

INT. WISDOM'S apartment - NIGHT

Ferris and Wisdom are in night gear, getting ready for bed.

She sees that he's disheartened.

Wisdom doesn't have the energy to fight her any more.

She's gracious in victory.

INT. Liz's house - bedroom - morning

Head on pillow, Liz buds from sleep. Reaches out. Cris is

gone. Her eyes open, fearful.

INT. LIZ'S KITCHEN - MORNING

She rushes in, looking for Cris. - He's not there.

She hears CLANKING from the laundry room.

On the floor, Cris sits next to the heater, which lies in

pieces. He tries to adjust the remaining apparatus.

He smiles archly.

Now she understands his strategy.

INT. HOMELAND SECURITY - workshop - DAY

Ferris enters the area where weapons are stored and where

mechanics build whatever the department needs. She interrupts

Baines as he gives instructions to some MP's. These are his

guys who get priority over the civilian Protective Service

Police.

She hands him a sketch. He studies it, perplexed.

She hands him more sketches.

INT. Liz's fifth grade class - DAY

Liz stands before a map of the Native American tribes of the

Lake Tahoe region.

SMARTIE PANTS busts a button to get called on. Instead, Liz

points to a SHY GIRL.

Liz notices that her students are distracted and giggling.

She turns to see Cris standing in the doorway, holding a box.

Embarrassed, she blushes.

Liz pulls Cris into the hall, out of sight of the kids.

He's speechless.

Seeing his doleful expression, Liz can't help smiling. She

glances up and down the hall, then kisses him lasciviously on

the lips.

With a mischievous grin, she ducks back into class, leaving

Cris reeling, but exhilarated.

int. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Liz and Cris stuff their mouths with lo mein. She sets down

her chopsticks, picks up a red pencil and industriously

resumes marking up a stack of papers.

Cris watches, bored.

She picks up the chopsticks and takes another bite.

She muses, tempted.

She gets lost in the fantasy. He can almost taste the

fulfilmment of his dreams.

His unbridled enthusiasm brings out her inner adult.

He's taken aback by her sudden shift.

He tries to keep his desperation from showing, but she sees

right through him.

He adores her more than ever, and fears losing her even more.

She puts her hand on his.

Ext. Church - DAY

Liz and Cris file by the PASTOR after the service and mill

about on the lawn with the other congregants. Kids release

pent up energy in the adjacent park.

Randy approaches Cris.

Cris offers his profile for hitting.

She drags Cris towards a YOUNG COUPLE WITH KIDS.

RANDY

approaches RICK, a young LOCAL POLICEMAN who's not the

sharpest knife in the drawer.

Ext. church - DAY

Paul and Janice are chatting with Cris and Liz.

Cris grows distracted. Out the corner of his eye, he sees a

SPORTS CAR gunning it down the street, passing a SUNDAY

DRIVER to beat a red light. At that moment, a kid misses a

catch and a BASEBALL rolls into a street, where a twenty-ish

WOMAN JOGGER runs over to get it, just as the sports car

passes the Sunday driver, sees the jogger, and skids, forcing

A BUS to swerve and plow into a GROUP OF PEOPLE standing at

the corner.

A FEW SECONDS EARLIER

Cris is spaced out.

Ignoring them, Cris turns toward the street where he saw the

accident take place. He sees kids, but they're jumping rope.

Wrong group. He scans around and finds the kids who are

playing softball. Someone misses a catch. The ball rolls

toward the street. The sports car is now coming fast. The

woman jogger sees the errant ball and runs to fetch it.

She's wearing earbuds and can't hear him. He's too far away

to grab her. He's closer to the approaching sports car. Cris

picks up a rock, prepares to throw, hesitates a beat,

squints....

He throws. Misses. Snapback. Throws. Misses. Snapback. Again.

Again. Scores a hit. Snapback. Opens his eyes and hurls the

stone.

Liz and the bystanders watch, appalled, as the rock SHATTERS

the driver side window of the sportscar, which instead of

skidding, screeches to a halt. The bus drives by without

incident, injuring no one.

The Driver of the sportscar bursts from his car and furiously

charges Cris.

The Driver curses Cris and tries to grab and hit him. But

Cris deftly deflects the blows so that they seem harmless.

Realizing he can't land a punch, the Driver changes tack.

He pulls out his wallet.

He digs in his pocket and pulls out the stack of hundreds.

ON RANDY and POLICEMAN RICK

Who have seen the whole incident.

ext. Park - a minute later

Away from the crowd. Liz, concerned and alienated, walks a

step to the side of Cris.

Liz is torn.

Cris looks at her, almost bereft, and makes a tough decision.

She's afraid to hear it. He's afraid to say it.

ext. another church - DAY

Cavanaugh is milling around after services when his cell

phone chirps. He answers, peeved.

He closes his cell phone. Turns to his WIFE.

Cavanaugh takes his leave.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Liz reacts to Cris' confession with disbelief.

She looks down.

Cris can't let her go. He takes a quarter from his pocket and

hands it to Liz.

She takes the quarter and flips it. Cris calls it in the air.

She looks. It's heads.

Tails it is, but so what. She flips again.

She looks. Amazed. Disturbed.

She stares at him like he's the devil.

She walks away.

She turns abruptly.

She walks on, leaving Cris bereft.

WALKING IN THE PARK - fiVE MINUTES AGO

Cris squints, then chooses his words carefully.

His words hit the bull's-eye. Liz's whole demeanor softens.

Although still troubled, she takes his arm, and they walk on.

ANOTHER ANGLE - BINOCULAR MASK

Ext. Hillside overlooking park - DAY

Ferris, Cavanaugh, and Policeman Rick are each looking

through a pair of binoculars.

EXT. PARK - daY

Liz and Cris, still walking, holding hands.

He seems so sincere that she dismisses her concerns.

Cris seems unprepared for the question.

She seems disappointed.

That certainly pressed her buttons again.

She rests her head on his shoulder.

Ext. Hillside overlooking park - DAY

Still watching Cris and Liz as the couple get into her car.

Ferris takes a deep breath.

ext. old SHOPPING CENTER - daY

Grocery, drug store, hardware, gas station. Liz and Cris get

out of her Jeep. He heads for the grocery store.

They split up.

Ext. Across the street - unmarked car - DAY

Ferris, Cavanaugh, and Policeman Rick watch the couple go

their separate ways. Ferris gets out.

Ferris gets out of the car. Cavanaugh and Rick stay put.

INT. DrugSTORE - DAY

Liz is in the female department, trying to choose between

various brands when Ferris approaches.

Ferris shows her badge. Homeland Security. Liz, frightened,

is ready to listen.

INT. Drug store - dAY

Ferris and Liz huddle in a quiet corner. Liz is in shock from

what she has just heard.

Ferris shakes her head lamentably.

Liz knows she's facing an agonizing decision.

EXT. GROCERY STORE PARKING LOT - DAY

Cris waits impatiently by her Jeep. Liz finally approaches,

carrying a couple of heavy bags filled with wine and booze.

Liz holds out a single key on a ring.

ACROSS THE STREET

Ferris rejoins Cavanaugh and Ferris in Rick's car.

Ext. Mountain road - DAY

Liz's Jeep grinds up a steep, winding road, past a sign that

says "State Line."

She turns onto a dirt driveway that leads to a cabin and a

glorious panorama.

Inspired, he kisses her, but she's distant.

She smiles wanly, then gives him a peck.

She hops out of the truck.

Ext. STAKEOUT SITE across the CANYON - DAY

Cavanaugh and Rick look through binoculars. Ferris peers

through a telescope on a tripod. Baines approaches with a

half dozen tech and construction guys.

Ferris rolls her eyes with exasperation.

Cavanaugh and Rick nod with a kind of awe.

Baines looks at her with new respect.

INT. Cabin bathroom - sunset

Liz looks in the mirror, torn.

INT. Cabin - parlor - sunset

Cris is lighting a fire he has built. Liz drifts in, pensive.

She is moved by his words, but they make her strangely sad.

Cris pours two glasses of Scotch. Hands one to Liz.

She doesn't drink.

Off his puzzlement, she hands him a small plastic tab.

A SQUARE CROSS is coming into focus.

He recognizes the image from the Donut Shop display case just

before he met Liz for the first time.

They look at each other, equally perplexed.

She struggles to make sense of it.

He can't read her reaction.

She looks at him, emotional.

She lets him hold her.

EXT. AROUND THE MOUNTAIN - NIGHT

State Troopers are camped out in two's and three's. Fifty of

them. Plus Baines' SIX MP's, wearing different uniforms.

INT. cabin - Bedroom - night

Liz and Cris in bed. Her head on his chest. This time he's

the one sleeping while she lies awake.

Ext. STAKEOUT SITE - NIGHT

Ferris and Baines sip coffee and wait. They find each other

attractive.

Ferris shakes her head with certainty.

INT. cabin - Bedroom - night

Liz eases away from Cris, trying not to wake him. He

stirs...but settles back into slumber. She slithers out of

bed and tiptoes to the bathroom. Silently closes the door

behind her.

INT. Bathroom - night

Liz stands there in the dark, heart pounding. She sees that

the window is open. She looks at it, deciding.

INT. cabin - DAY

The morning sun on Cris' sleeping face. His foot slides in

search of Liz. Not finding her, he opens his eyes. Checks the

clock. 10:09 AM.

No answer. He walks to the bedroom door.

Locked. He tries to force it. Won't budge.

Tries the window. Bars across it - that weren't there before.

Shakes them. Solidly bolted. Looks outside. No one's around.

He's about to shout, but stops himself.

Runs into the bathroom. Bars over that window, too. As he

stands there, trapped, Ferris steps into view outside.

INT. Cabin - night

Cris' eyes flash open in bed. Liz isn't there.

He throws off the covers, pauses to scan ahead -- then rushes

straight to the bathroom and throws open the door.

Liz is still there, in the dark, facing the open window.

She darts for the window and starts to climb through. Cris

pulls her back by her robe. She SCREAMS.

Bars slide silently into place over the bathroom window,

locking them both in. BLINDING LIGHTS spike on throughout the

forest, converging like javelins at that cabin.

INT. Cabin: MOMENTS EARLIER

Cris throws open the bathroom door.

Liz is still there, in the dark, facing the open window.

Seeing the expression on his face, she darts for the window.

This time, Cris doesn't move.

She hesitates.

She turns around, trembling.

His certainty is almost convincing.

The trauma replays on his face.

Liz doesn't know what to believe, but she feels for him.

Ext. StAKEOUT SITE - NIGHT

Ferris, Cavanaugh, Baines, and Rick are watching through

night-vision scopes.

INT. CabiN / bathroom - NIGHT

Liz steps toward Cris.

Suddenly distracted, Cris squints with that faraway gaze.

He snaps out of it.

How can she listen to this madman?

STAKEOUT SITE

Ferris, Cavanaugh, Baines, and Rick are getting worried.

Ferris looks at Baines, who doesn't encourage her.

INT. cabin - bathroom - night

Liz listens, dubious, as Cris crouches beneath the window

sill, scribbling a note on a scrap of paper.

He tucks the note into her robe pocket.

She gathers her courage and steps to the open window.

StakEOUT SITE

Everyone is coiled, waiting for Ferris to give the word.

Cavanaugh is on the radio with his men, ready to pass it on.

Ferris takes a last look through the nightvision binoculars.

That's when Liz climbs awkwardly out of the bathroom window

in her bathrobe.

When Liz is out of the cabin, Ferris activates the remote

control.

ALL AROUND THE CABIN

Doors lock and bars slide into place almost inaudibly.

StakEOUT SITE

Ferris shines a flashlight toward Liz, on off. She heads in

the general direction of the light, but stops BEHIND A THICK-

TRUNKED OAK TREE, which blocks her from their view.

BEHIND THE OAK tree

Cris backs out from under Liz's robe.

StakEOUT SITE

Ferris, Cavanaugh, Baines, and Rick shine their flashlights

on the oak tree, waiting for Liz to reappear.

Liz steps into view from behind the oak tree. Ferris shines

the light towards her again. She heads straight toward them.

ON LIZ

As predicted, the hem of her robe gets caught in the thorns.

She tries to pull free, but she's stuck.

StakEOUT SITE

Ferris and Baines wade into the thicket to extricate her.

Among the thorns

Ferris and Baines reach Liz.

The predicted words hit her hard.

Ferris and Baines free her and lead her up the hill.

BEHIND THE OAK TREE

Cris scurries away, using the sound of their rustling to

cover his escape.

ext. Forest - night

Cris scurries near a trio of STATE TROOPERS. He steps on a

twig which SNAPS loudly. PAN BACK to find a SECOND CRIS

approaching down the same path. Cris 1 dissolves as Cris 2

steps around the twig and continues undetected.

A few steps on, Cris 2 slips on mud and slides noisily down a

slope. PAN BACK to find CRIS 3, who detours onto stepping

stones then rejoins the original path, undetected.

STAKEOUT SITE

Baines and Ferris help Liz back to their camp.

Liz pulls the note from her robe pocket and reads Cris'

handwriting: "Then why do I feel like a traitor?"

A flashlight shines up at Cavanaugh from the canyon.

Ferris and Baines scan their infra-red scopes at the area.

FERRIS' INFRARED POV:

A hot human shape hurries over rough terrain with stealthy

urgency.

BACK TO SCENE

Ferris and Baines looking through their scopes.

Cavanaugh picks up the radio with evident satisfaction.

FIFTY SEARCHLIGHTS BLAZE ON and stab through the forest.

Ferris urgently takes Baines aside.

TROOPERS

Spread out through the steep terrain. SEARCHLIGHT BEAMS sweep

over the landscape.

CRIS

moves erratically, presciently, in bursts, dodging the

streaking spots of glare.

StakEOUT SITE

Liz is drinking coffee next to Rick's police car. Ferris

approaches, coldly knowing.

IN THE FOREST

Cris on foot, running over rough terrain. State Troopers

converging. Searchlight beams crisscrossing.

A cone of light passes over Cris. Comes back. Finds him.

He finds himself face to face with two Troopers, guns aimed

straight at him.

Cris tumbles, draws fire, serpentines through the woods,

feinting, freezing, unhittable - moving closer.

Cris is within fighting distance. Chop to an arm. Punch to

diaphragm. Cris is now holding Trooper 1's SIX-SHOT REVOLVER.

Trooper 1 runs. Cris does not fire after him. Instead, he

takes aim at a searchlight at a great distance. Squints. Then

fires and scores a direct hit with the first shot.

Turns to a second search light. Squints. Squeezes off a

second shot. The lamp shatters.

ext. Stakeout site - night

Baines and Ferris watch as, around the mountain, gunshots

sound and searchlights go dark.

The searchlight next to her shatters.

THE HUNT

Cris gets pinned down behind a tree. A Trooper keeps firing,

trying to drive him from hiding. Cris boldly comes out from

cover and runs, giving the Trooper a clear shot. But the

Trooper runs out of ammo at just that moment.

StakEOUT SITE

Watching through binoculars, speaking into radio.

ELSEWHERE IN FOREST

Baines' well-trained MP's have set up a triangulated trap.

They operate like skilled Special Forces commandos. One of

them signals, fingers to eyes, that he has spotted Cris. Cris

enters a clearing and continues straight into the trap! The

TEAM LEADER prepares to give the signal to shoot.

Cris' movement flushes a STAG from the hiding. It knocks over

one MP and causes another to miss his shot. The Leader sees

the stag and scans around for Cris. CAMERA repositions to

reveal that the stag now stands between Cris and the Leader.

The Leader shoots the stag, killing him, but not before Cris

dashes to cover in another stand of trees.

Two MP's fire at Cris. But shoot each other.

Stakeout site

Ferris, discouraged, comes to a tough decision.

She wants Baines to understand.

IN THE FOREST

Cris is suddenly the target of a turkey shoot. He hops around

like a mountain goat while bullets CHING off rocks and

SPLINTER trees. He stays alive, but only by a hair's breadth.

Cris finds himself pinned down by Four Troopers. He rushes

Trooper One, who fires, and hits Cris solidly in the chest.

Cris rushes the position of Trooper Two. Before he gets

there, Cris gets shot in the gut.

Cris rushes the Third Trooper, who hesitates, frightened,

then shoots -- and misses. Cris charges up to him, knocks his

shooting arm away, takes his weapon, uses him a shield, then

fires at a Fourth Trooper as he charges out from the trees.

It's Cavanaugh, now covered in blood.

Cris uses Trooper Three as a shield, but when Cavanaugh comes

charging from the trees, Cris DOESN'T FIRE. Instead he shoves

Trooper Three at Cavanaugh, sending them both tumbling down a

slope.

StakEOUT SITE

Another setback.

IN THE FOREST

Cris crosses a ridge that leads him into steep ravine. He

can't get back up.

StakEOUT SITE

Baines and Ferris listen to the police band. Liz stands

nearby. She can hear the patter.

Then it hits her.

EXT. MAXWELL GORGE - NIGHT

Slowly making his way through the steep redwood-covered

slopes, Cris hears a NOISE. Looks up. Sees a STATE POLICE SUV

CRASHING down the cliff across the Gorge.

MAXWELL GORGE - NOW

Cris, catching his breath against a redwood, opens his eyes

and looks back toward his approaching pursuers. He looks

around the gorge, searching for the cliff where he FORESAW

the SUV come crashing down. He recognizes the rock formations

across the gorge. He heads in that direction. PAN UP and we

see that the cliff is directly under the...

StakEOUT SITE

Baines steps closer to the edge and looks down.

Ferris, suddenly confident, shouts into the radio.

Liz looks around for some way to help. She spots the State

Police SUV that we saw crashing down the hillside. She

sidles toward it.

MAXWELL GORGE

Thirty Troopers and Six MP's are converging on Cris.

StakEOUT SITE

Liz opens the door of the SUV, shifts into neutral, and

starts pushing. - It's too heavy to budge.

MAXWELL GORGE

Cris moves toward a field of LARGE BOULDERS.

StakEOUT SITE

Slowly, with great effort, Liz gets the SUV to inch forward.

MAXWELL GORGE

Troopers and MP's are closing in on Cris.

Cris climbs in among the large boulders, glances up, and

waits for the future to happen.

StakEOUT SITE

Liz gets the SUV onto a slight downslope, and it picks up

speed.

Baines and Ferris see the SUV rumbling straight toward them.

They dive out of the way as the SUV plunges over the ledge.

MAXWELL GORGE

Troopers and MP's are advancing toward Cris, about to open

fire.

Thirty Troopers and MP's have their fingers on the trigger

when the SUV sails over the ledge and plummets straight down

towards them. Cris crouches down among the boulders just as

the SUV crashes on top of him, then tumbles toward his

hunters, who scatter.

Cris makes a run for it just as the SUV explodes in a

fireball.

STAKEOUT SITE

Ferris and Baines watch the events below.

While they are distracted, Liz climbs into the front seat of

RICK'S POLICE CRUISER, cranks it up, slams into reverse,

spins, and takes off down the road.

LIZ

fishtails down the twisting mountain road.

MAXWELL GORGE

Cris practically mud-skis down the slope.

Troopers and MP's hurtle after him.

At the bottom, Cris is carried by momentum onto the CREEKSIDE

ROAD...

Into the path of A POLICE CAR that comes careening around a

curve!

Liz at the wheel. She swerves and slams on the brakes,

skidding and screeching to a halt.

Troopers and MP's slalom onto the road from the incline and

rush after Cris.

Cris makes it to the car. Driver's side.

He climbs in and guns it.

Three MP's grab onto the car's mirrors and door handles. Cris

weaves violently until they lose their grip and fly off.

In Rick's Police Cruiser - dawn

Liz and Cris grin at each other.

STAKEOUT SITE - dawn

Ferris urgently unrolls a road map and studies it.

In Rick's Police Cruiser - dawn

Cris speeds down the treacherous curves.

He pulls out his cell phone.

INT. LAS VEGAS PENTHOUSE - daWN

NEAL, a 60-ish tycoon with silvery hair, finishes packing an

expensive suitcase. A high-maintenance SHOWGIRL puts the

finishing touches on her make-up in his marble bathroom.

Somebody's cell-phone plays the theme from "Peter Gunn." Pan

across eight large suitcases, his and hers, ready to go, and

find Guy on the sofa, watching CNBC financial news. He

reaches into a coat pocket and flips open his handset.

Guy signals Neal. This is the call they were expecting.

With a smirk of triumph, he turns to Neal.

Neal conceals his evident satisfaction.

INT. Rick's Police Cruiser - dawn

Cris, driving fast on the treacherous winding road, closes

his cell phone.

He concentrates as he screeches around a curve.

They hit a patch of ice. Skid wildly.

MOUNTAIN ROAD

Rick's Police Cruiser swings over the side and tumbles down a

steep slope. There will be no survivors.

Hold on curve.

Rick's Police Cruiser speeds into view AGAIN!?? But this

time, Cris steers around the ice patch, skids dangerously,

almost goes over the side, but continues safely downhill.

Rick's Police Cruiser

Liz, palpitating, tries to catch her breath.

MOUNTAIN ROAD - PREVIOUS CURVE

Cavanaugh's Car speeds into view, skids on the same patch of

ice and skates over the side of the road, as Cris did, the

first time.

There will be no survivors. And no second chances.

STAKEOUT SITE

As a Federal Chopper idles, Ferris marks up a ROAD MAP of the

area with X's.

Baines approaches.

Ferris winces, then moves on like a general in battle.

She heads over to the copter.

He follows her inside, and the copter takes off.

MOUNTAIN ROAD

Cris takes blind curves at high speed.

A look between them.

They approach the entrance to the town.

EXT. hendersonville - DAWN

Police vehicles converge on the area, systematically blocking

the intersections that Ferris indicated.

Rick's Police Cruiser

Cris threads his way through town, zigging and zagging down

streets and alleys.

FROM THE HELICOPTER

Ferris sees Cris maneuvering perfectly through the maze,

avoiding imminent traps and confrontation.

Cris dodges another trap.

The bypassed police cars chase after Rick's stolen Cruiser,

which leaves town on a street that merges with a WINDY NARROW

CANYONSIDE ROAD.

Up ahead, beyond a blind curve, the road leads to a ONE-LANE

BRIDGE over a DEEP CHASM with RAGING RAPIDS at the bottom.

On the FAR SIDE OF THE BRIDGE, out of sight, beyond a curve,

EIGHT STATE POLICE CARS form a barricade across the road.

INT. Rick's Police Cruiser - DAY

Having escaped from town, Cris and Liz share a glimmer of

relief.

Cris' expression darkens.

They round a curve and the NARROW BRIDGE comes into view.

FAR SIDE OF BRIDGE

Behind the barricade, Ferris' helicopter comes in for a

landing.

INT. Rick's Police Cruiser - DAY

Cris checks his rearview mirror. A six-pack of cop cars are

right behind him. To his left, a steep rock wall. To his

right, a vertical drop-off into the canyon.

Cris drives on, the blood draining from his face.

FAR SIDE OF THE BRIDGE

Ferris strides across the span, Baines in her wake. Arriving

at the barricade, she approaches the biggest state police

car, a HUMMER -- and flashes her badge.

She walks through the Trooper and gets into his Hummer.

She starts up the Hummer. It roars.

THE BRIDGE

Cris slams on the brakes. Stops the car. Police cars stop

behind him, blocking retreat.

She hustles out.

A quick look good-bye and he drives on.

HUMMER

Ferris gathers her determination and floors it.

ON THE BRIDGE

A game of chicken with a difference.

ON CRIS

Squinting.

CRIS' VISIONS:

Fast forward to the HEAD ON COLLISION! Then a COLLAGE of

ALTERNATE CHOICES AND OUTCOMES: Cris swerves; slams on the

brakes; gets shot making a run for the rail; spins out on the

roadbed; crashes over the side, over the side, over the side!

But in every version, the Hummer is unchanging. Unrelenting.

Dead on.

THE BRIDGE - NOW

They're speeding closer.

FERRIS

Total focus. No doubts or decisions.

CRIS' VISIONS: FAST, QUICK, CONDENSED

The falling car crashes onto the canyon wall, tumbles

downhill, explodes; falls again, this time crashing directly

onto boulders at the bottom...

ON CRIS

He drives toward a specific segment of railing between two

light posts.

THE BRIDGE

Rick's Cruiser crashes through the railing and plunges over

the side of the bridge.

Liz runs to the rail and leans over the side, watching the

Cruiser fall down, down, down through the narrow ravine.

IN THE FALLING CAR

Cris unbuckles his seat belt. Opens the door. Just before

impact, he LEAPS OUT, away from the car.

BOTTOM OF CANYON

The car smashes into boulders at the shallow side of the

river. A moment later, Cris SPLASHES a few yards away in the

deepest part of the rapids.

ON THE BRIDGE

Ferris peers down into the canyon.

IN THE RAPIDS

Cris bobs to the surface and is carried away by the fierce

current. The smashed Cruiser also gets carried into the

river. Fighting the current, Cris watches as the smashed

police cruiser surges ahead of him - then disappears!

Perplexed for a beat, he suddenly understands and desperately

swims for a rock and clambers onto it.

CAMERA pulls back to reveal that Cris is stuck in the middle

of the river -- about five feet from where it drops off into

a WATERFALL!

A HELICOPTER

flies over him.

ON THE ROCK

Cris looks for a way out. Seeing none, he jumps!

And is swallowed up in dark thunderous death.

CRIS

Still on the rock. Looks up and sees a cable being lowered

from the helicopter. He looks around? Is there another way

out? Out of choices, he reaches for the cable. Misses! Loses

his balance. Flails. At the last second, he steadies himself.

He wants to live.

The cable dangles back into range.

Cris grabs it.

The cable is hooked to A PAIR OF HANDCUFFS.

FERRIS

Watches through binoculars as Cris snaps one cuff around his

wrist -- and waits. She shouts into her radio.

BAINES IN HELICOPTER

Baines speaks to Cris via loudspeaker.

On the rock

Cris, defeated, attaches the second cuff to his other wrist.

He is lifted up into the air, hanging by both arms.

Bridge

Liz sits, handcuffed, in the back of a second U.S. Government

helicopter. Ferris approaches.

HELICOPTER

Descends, with Cris hanging below by a cable. MP's are

waiting below with a tarp which they wrap around Cris, then

tape him like a mummy, up to his neck. When he's bound as

securely as Hannibal Lecter, Ferris steps close and gets her

first good look at him.

She seems genuinely surprised.

She signals and Cris is dumped into the waiting helicopter.

The door is slammed behind him.

INT. helicopter - DAY

Inside, Cris is surprised to find himself alone with Liz. He

edges closer so they can hear each other.

The helicopter takes off.

They gaze at each other with intense longing.

He shakes his head, fatalistic.

She knows it's hopeless.

Ext. HOMELAND SECURITY - VEGAS OFFICE - DAY

Coming into view by air.

ext. HOMELAND SECURITY - MEDICAL LAB - DAY

MED TECHS perform a battery of tests on Cris and Liz. Wisdom,

Baines, and Ferris watch through glass in an adjoining room.

Baines covertly makes the "big balls" gesture with two clawed

hands. Wisdom nods knowingly.

WHITE VESTIBULE

Size of an elevator. Cris stands there, bound ankle and

wrist. Click, the metal shackles open automatically and drop

to the floor.

Cris reaches down for them. Possible weapon. Struggles to

lift them. Can't.

INT. Observation room - daY

Ferris, Baines, and Wisdom peer down into the White Vestibule

through a window. Technicians operate a control panel.

She leans forward, flips a toggle. Down below, in the

Vestibule, a door slides open.

WHITE VESTIBULE

Cris gives up on the chains and sullenly steps forward.

WHITE ROOM

Size of a squash court. Cris enters gingerly and peers

around. Twenty feet up, an OBSERVATION WINDOW, opaque. On the

other walls, RIFLE BARRELS poke through NARROW SLITS. The

door slides shut behind him.

Observation room

Ferris leans forward and speaks.

Ferris signals Wisdom to be patient. Cris just stands there,

flatfooted, arms folded, unafraid.

Ferris nods. A Techie presses a button. The THREE RIFLES

FIRE.

Cris is hit square in the chest!

By THREE BLUE PAINTBALLS.

Wisdom looks her in the eye. Sees her certainty.

Ferris leans toward a microphone, but before she can speak...

Ferris sits back and nods to the techies to proceed.

BARE WHITE CHAMBER

Cris balances, at the ready, as the three rifles take aim at

him. He LUNGES at the very instant that one rifle FIRES. A

bullet ZINGS by his ear.

As the second rifle fires, Cris contorts -- and a bullet

parts his hair.

As the third rifles fires, he tumbles away, almost a blur.

More shots, in rapid sequence, erratic rhythm. Two at a time.

Three at a time.

Like a pinball, Cris pivots, crouches, dodges every bullet.

Then suddenly stops. Stands there. An easy target. Click,

click, click, the guns are out of bullets.

Wisdom takes out his handgun, carefully aims, and discharges

six shots at Cris - doesn't score a hit.

Ferris shows the aiming gantries to Wisdom.

Ferris pushes a toggle, and a pocket door slides open in a

wall.

Cris walks through the doorway into...

THE SMALLER WHITE ROOM

which is familiar from the opening sequence, but not exactly

the same. Because it's not exactly the same future. A HEAVY

CHAIR, bolted to the floor, faces a PLASMA SCREEN MONITOR on

the wall. To the left of the screen is a MIRROR; to the

right, a DIGITAL CLOCK-CALENDAR.

Ferris' FACE appears on the monitor.

Cris eyes the chair with suspicion.

Cris looks into the mirror and sees his face reflected - as

an old man. He turns away.

INTERCUT BOOTH / WHITE ROOM

Wisdom looks at Ferris. She shrugs, sheepish.

Cris squints, frustrated, looking for a way out.

Ferris switches the toggle. The sizzle of electricity.

Cris hops and jumps in agony.

Ferris turns away, then makes herself look.

She turns off the juice.

Cris, recovering, shoots her the finger.

She switches the toggle again - and leaves it on. Wisdom

doesn't have the stomach to watch.

Cris collapses, unconscious.

INT. Wisdom's office - DAY

Wisdom and Ferris are both traumatized by the torture.

Wisdom nods.

Wisdom chuckles at the enormity of the potential.

Dread suddenly washes over Wisdom.

Ferris grins uncomfortably.

Ferris seems to come around to Wisdom's logic.

They are both filled with dread.

white room

Cris on the floor. His expression hardens.

CorrIDORS

Ferris and Wisdom stride through the facility almost at a

run.

WHITE ROOM

Cris rises from the floor into a crouched position, like an

animal ready to pounce.

The door flies open and A DOZEN ARMED MP's charge in, rifles

at the ready, and surround Cris. Cris checks the time on the

digital clock. It's 5:12 PM.

Corridors

Ferris and Wisdom getting closer; he's on a cellphone.

WHITE ROOM

Motionless, in a crouch...Cris suddenly dashes between two

MP's, shoves them aside, makes for the door. He gets smashed

by the RIFLE BUTTS of the nearest ones, then stomped by the

full contingent. [Attempt #1]

AREA OUTSIDE THE White ROOM

Ferris and Wisdom arrive and look through the window.

THEIR POV:

Cris is alone in the room, in that crouched position. No

MP's. What we've just seen...hasn't happened yet.

OUTSIDE THE WHITE ROOM

Baines arrives with THE DOZEN ARMED MP's we saw in the

previous scene.

Wisdom and Ferris hurry upstairs into the Observation Booth.

We pass through the wall into the...

White room

Where in some future Cris is once again surrounded by the

Dozen MP's who are actually outside, waiting to charge in.

Suddenly, Cris pounces low at one soldier's hips, shoving him

into the soldier next to him, which knocks over a third

soldier. Cris dashes for the door, but four MP's pull him

away before he can get out. [Attempt #2]

Observation ROOM

Ferris and Wisdom enter and look down at Cris, who crouches

alone, motionless, in the White Room. Ferris prepares to

speak to him. Wisdom interrupts.

Wisdom goes to the microphone.

Outside WHITE room

BAINES and the DOZEN MP's wait, ready to charge in.

White room

Cris, once again surrounded by the same Dozen MP's, suddenly

punches one of them, kicks another, and now has the mobility

to start using his Tai Chi moves. But the other MP's gang up

on him and pile on, burying him under their weight. [Attempt

#3]

observation ROOM

Wisdom and Ferris watch as Cris still just crouches there,

motionless, alone, in the empty room. He checks the clock.

It's 5:09 PM. Just minutes before The MP's will charge into

the room.

WHITE ROOM

Cris runs to the door and tries to bar it so they can't

enter. He gets shoved aside by the force of the MP's as they

charge in. [Attempt #4]

observation ROOM

Wisdom and Ferris watch as Cris still just crouches there,

motionless, in the empty room. Wisdom flicks off the mike.

White room -

Cris is again crouched and surrounded by the Dozen MP's.

Suddenly Cris attacks using his Tai Chi skills. He outfights

four of them, but then is subdued by the others. [Attempt #5]

Cris is again crouched and surrounded by the Dozen MP's.

Suddenly he repeats the martial arts attack, but refines it,

beating six MP's this time before being subdued... [Attempt

#6]

Cris is again crouched and surrounded by the Dozen MP's.

Faster and faster, over and over, Cris relives the attack,

perfecting his movements, finding new opportunities. His

skill increases with each iteration as he anticipates every

soldier's action and counters it with the greatest economy of

means. [Attempts #7-12]

The fight takes on the quality of choreography as the MP's

seem to step right into Cris' punches and kicks. Cris flips

and throws them into each other, leveraging their movements

to achieve his goals with perfect efficiency.

But Cris still can't quite get out the door.

OBSERVATION ROOM

Looking down at Cris, still crouched there, alone.

Ext. White ROOM

Baines gives the signal and the dozen waiting MP's charge in

through the door, rifles at the ready. The foreseen attack is

now beginning in real time.

INT. White room

The MP's surround Cris, as foreseen. He remains in the center

of them, crouched, motionless.

For a long beat, they just stand there, rifles aimed at their

frozen quarry.

Cris suddenly attacks...and with perfect economy of movement,

like a diver executing thirteen twists in the second before

he hits the water, Cris executes the previous routine with a

new "finale" and...

Elegantly slips past all the MP's into the hall - and slams

the door behind him, locking them in!

The escape has the quality of magic. It takes a beat for the

MP's to realize what has happened.

oBSERVATION BOOTH

Wisdom and Ferris are agog.

Ferris draws her gun and charges down the stairs.

OUTSIDE white room

Cris is waiting for her and somehow he has her gun in his

hand.

Cris spins and shoots Wisdom in the shin as he starts down

the stairs. Wisdom collapses.

Cris spins and gets the drop on Baines.

Baines sets down his gun. Cris takes off.

Baines opens the door to the White Room. MP's stampede out in

hot pursuit.

Ferris attends to Wisdom, bleeding on the stairs.

They care about each other more than they've let on.

corridors

Cris. Running. MP's and general Security Police close behind.

No place to hide. Soldiers open fire. Cris dives for the

floor, tumbles, gets to his feet, serpentines, and ends up

behind a door that opens at the moment, as if by mental

command, shielding him from gunfire.

Security Police pour out from the other side. Cris reaches

around and grabs someone's gun. He opens fire, buying himself

enough cover to get to a doorway.

Cris stops, thinks, then charges out shooting, fighting,

running -- completing a condensed burst of four impossible

tasks that get him to the next point of refuge.

He waits, thinks, charges and, with another burst of

choreographed action, makes it into an elevator whose doors

conveniently open at that moment. He darts inside, keeps

shooting, presses certain buttons - starting several stories

up, and waits for the doors to close.

INT. SURVEILLANCE ROOM - DAY

Banks of monitors, each containing a grid of mini-frames

containing the pov of a surveillance camera -- hundreds in

all. LEO, the Soldier at the console, is twitchy and hyper-

alert.

Leo watches as the Security Forces split up. He scans the

monitors to see where Cris will resurface.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Cris climbs up through the ceiling panel.

INT. Elevator shaft - DAY

When the elevator stops, he rips open a VENTILLATION DUCT and

climbs inside.

OUTSIDE WHITE ROOM

DR. FIELDING approaches Wisdom with a syringe.

Amanda, Ferris' junior analyst, rushes in with lab reports.

She points to a particular page. Impatient, Ferris reads. Her

eyes widen.

Ferris turns to Wisdom.

POV FROM CEILING - THROUGH VENTILLATION GRILL

Liz sits in a waiting room by herself, reading a magazine.

Psst! She looks up at the camera.

She moves a chair under the vent and prepares to stand on it.

The door opens and several MP's march in.

Without looking up at Cris, she moves the chair back against

the wall and sits in it.

VENTILLATION DUCT

Cris, frustrated, shimmies back through the vent.

SURVEILLANCE ROOM

Leo checks all the video screens. Cris is nowhere.

VENTILLATION DUCT

Settling in, Cris looks at his watch. 5:17. He concentrates

and time speeds by - until a flashlight beam lights up the

duct from a distance.

As more Security Police and flashlights fill the shaft, Cris

checks his watch: 5:33.

VENTILLATION DUCT

Which is once again dark, quiet and empty. Cris looks at his

watch. 5:17.

Cris takes a deep breath and crawls forward. Remarkably, he

seems to be CRAWLING OUT OF HIS MOTIONLESS BODY like a snake

shedding its skin! - In fact, Cris 1 lies there in deep

concentration, while Cris 2 creeps onward.

EXPLORATION SEQUENCE

Cris drops down from a ventillator shaft into an office. He

opens the door, walks into a corridor, and strides forward,

preternaturally calm.

He advances through an unfolding panorama of "stage sets" on

which different hypothetical scenarios play out, one at a

time, several simultaneously, or layered in like the melodic

themes in a round or fugue, creating the visual equivalent of

harmony and counterpoint.

Cris encounters Security Police searching for him. When they

discover Cris, they aim their weapons at him. He checks the

time. Snapback a few seconds. He hides before they arrive.

He goes through a door into a room. People are there.

Snapback. Hides in a different room. It's empty. Cris

searches the room. Looks in the desk drawers. Puts things in

his pockets. The door flies open. Security Police find him

and shoot. Snapback.

Cris treads down empty corridors. He multiplies into a legion

of Cris Johnsons, duplicated again and again, as he explores

room after room, searching them sequentially. Simultaneously.

He spends much time in a Handyman's Storeroom, while other

Cris Johnson's fade away.

Cris 27 finds the surveillance room with Leo in charge. Cris

scans the room. He is seen. He waits to see who will shoot

him first. He is hit in the chest. Fade out.

Cris 35 gets caught by two Security Police. He fights them,

takes their guns, but gets killed by reinforcements.

Cris 63 waits in a room and peers through a crack in the door

as his POV FAST FORWARDS, and he charts the comings and

goings of the search parties, until they discover him, at

which point he snapsback and hides in a different room. He's

hiding in many rooms simultaneously. Spying. Piecing together

the schedule of the patrol in that corridor.

The same situations repeat. Scanning for security cameras.

Fighting. Winning. Losing. Dying.

He goes down a stairwell. One version of himself exits at a

landing. A second iteration of himself continues to the next

floor down. At that landing, two iterations of himself turn

in different directions, left and right.

We follow the one that went to the left.

He sees MP's taking Liz from her holding room and escorting

her somewhere else.

He follows. Gets seen. By her. By them. Snapback.

He is waiting in several locations, watching to see where the

MP's will emerge with Liz. The MP's and Liz emerge from an

elevator in one of the locations. The other Cris' fade out.

Liz is ushered into a room and locked inside. Four guards

depart. Two guards remain posted outside. They see Cris.

He runs down stairs. Into the corridor. Into the room

directly under the room where Liz is being held.

Cris enters A FORENSICS LAB where the captured bomb is being

studied. There is a barrel of C4 PLASTIC EXPLOSIVE. MP's in

the room turn on him and open fire. Cris is blasted and falls

to the floor, dead. Snapback to...

VENTILLATION DUCT

Cris, where he started, motionless as a hibernating bear,

exploring his futures. CAMERA passes through walls, floors,

ceilings and finds Baines rushing through the corridors.

Baines enters...

Wisdom's office

Where Wisdom paces with one crutch while Ferris sits on a

sofa like Rodin's Thinker, in concentration almost as deep as

Cris'.

Ferris looks up.

The thought crystallizes as she speaks.

Ferris shudders at the dark brilliance of her own idea.

int. ground floor of facility - DAY

Guards stand in a solid line. No way out. Cris off to one

side, in a niche just inside the door. Camera pans and finds

a second Cris standing back, away from an exit. Pans and

finds a legion of Cris Johnsons, duplicated again and again,

trying each exit.

At one dim exit, he lies on the ground, charred and dead,

next to the gauntlet of MP's he has tried to outrun.

Wisdom's office

Wisdom and Baines are looking at each other, appalled, then

turn to Ferris.

Wisdom regards her with perverse admiration.

Wisdom considers the decision that lies ahead for him.

INT. NEAR THE LOBBY - DAY

Cris is still trying to get out the front door, but there's

one Soldier, call him CRACK SHOT, who kills Cris repeatedly.

Cris snapsback and tries various tactics, but he can't get

past Crack Shot alive.

He gives up. Turns and runs back into the heart of the

building.

Cris' mental pov expands to include the entire facility, like

a crystal doll house. Simultaneously, he is observing every

room, present in every room, charting the place, testing

possible actions.

The facility is a bee hive of activity. A bee hive that

accelerates to fast forward -- until all times are

simultaneous. Until the simultaneous activity is made even

denser by the accumulated layers of possibility.

Cris-134 spies Ferris and Wisdom walking together. He follows

them for a while, until he is discovered. Cris-134 fades out.

The Ferris and Wisdom who saw him fade out. But another

Ferris and Wisdom continue through the building, and their

trail gets picked up by Cris-62, who has detoured in order

to encounter them.

As Cris' goals are accomplished, superfluous versions of

himself fade away.

The surveillance of a sequence of Ferris-and-Wisdoms is

continued by Cris-91, then Cris-14, who watches as Wisdom and

Ferris approach two guards standing outside an INTERROGATION

ROOM. We recognize them as the MP's who are guarding Liz,

inside. Wisdom is let into the Interrogation Room by the

MP's. Ferris proceeds into a nearby office alone.

vENTILLATION duct

Cris comes out of his trance. Checks his watch. Sixteen

minutes have passed.

Cris composes his thoughts, takes a breath, then crawls

forward, leaving no Cris behind. Now it's for real.

A moment after he rounds a corner, A FLASHLIGHT BEAM stabs

into the duct that he vacated. It scans around. Withdraws.

NOTE:

The situations that Cris has just previewed from the

Ventillator Shaft constitute the raw material that he will

now re-craft into a single narrative: the story of his actual

escape attempt, staged in long takes, unfolding in almost-

real time. When appropriate, to illustrate Cris' ability, we

will portray several locations simultaneously via split-

screens which change in number, size, shape, and placement.

INT. HANDYMAN'S STOREROOM - DAY

Ceiling. The ventillator grill pops open. Cris drops to the

floor. He grabs a backpack conveniently hanging on a hook.

Without the slightest hesitation, he goes from shelf to box

to drawer, loading particular objects into the backpack.

CORRIDOR

Empty. A door opens. Cris steps out into the hall carrying

the backpack and a foot stool. He stays close to a wall,

steps on the foot stool, and spray-paints over the lens of a

surveillance camera.

SURVEILLANCE ROOM

Leo spots Cris as he blinds one camera after another.

CORRIDOR

SOLDIER PETE and SOLDIER BRIAN charge into an empty corridor

and begin their search for Cris.

A door slams open, bashing Pete in the face. Cris breaks his

shooting arm, grabs his M-16, hides behind the door, and

sprays bullets low, hitting Brian in the shins. He runs to

Brian, breaks his shooting arm, takes his rifle. Drags Brian

and Pete into an open room. Tapes their mouths.

SURVEILLANCE ROOM

Baines arrives and takes command.

INT. WEST STAIRWELL - DAY

Cris pours floor polish in specific places.

SOLDIER KYLE and his TROOP charge out off the stairwell. Each

one steps directly into the polish and slips.

As they fall, Cris punches them out or puts them in

chokeholds, utilizing the elegant minimum of force or

violence. Child's play. As soon as they are unconscious, Cris

takes their guns, tear gas, and a gas mask.

CORRIDOR

SOLDIER JASON and THREE TROOPS are on the way, each with a

GUARD DOG.

ANOTHER CORRIDOR

Cris lies in wait for the patrol. When they appear, he is

perfectly placed to mace each dog and each soldier with a

quick spritz. He goes back and sprays them again, to keep

them out of commission.

Surveillance room

Cris appears on several screens.

The door opens. A tear gas canister flies in. A moment later,

Cris charges in wearing a gas mask.

He opens fire at the video monitors, shattering every one.

By the time the MP's are ready to respond, Cris reaches and

grabs Baines' handgun. He swings out into the corridor with

Baines' gun in his hand...Without looking, his hand aims and

shoots several times.

CORRIDOR

Emerging into the hallway, Cris looks down at the end of the

hall and sees two MP's falling to the floor, wounded.

Cris wraps electrical tape around the door handle and a pipe

on the wall, sealing the room shut, then turns and maces the

last of the dogs.

SURVEILLANCE ROOM

As the tear gas clears, the damage is visible. Every monitor

in the surveillance system has been shattered. Leo, coughing,

feels his way to a phone.

WISDOM'S OFFICE

Wisdom answers on speakerphone.

Ferris stares at Wisdom expectantly.

CORRIDOR

Cris, on the run, encounters CRACK SHOT - not where he was

seen in prevision. Crack Shot reaches for his gun. Cris

breaks his arm before Crack Shot can fire.

WISDOM'S OFFICE

Wisdom on the phone. Ferris watching in suspense.

He hangs up, discouraged. Dials a number.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Cris sneaks into room where he foresaw that Liz will be

brought. The door is recognizable by its industrial look.

WAITING ROOM

Where Liz is being baby-sat by four MP's. Baines enters.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Cris writes a note. Slips it onto a side table. Opens the

drawer of a desk. Writes in it. Puts something inside.

CORRIDOR OUTSIDE INTERROGATION ROOM

Baines and the four MP's arrives with Liz. Baines, Liz, and

two MP's wait while two officers carefully open the door and

check out the room.

We expect them to find Cris. But they don't.

Outside, in the hall, a pencil rolls on the floor toward Liz.

She notices it and looks where it came from. Sees Cris,

hiding behind a janitor's cart. He puts his fist over his

heart. Gesture of love.

The two MP's in the room signal for Liz to be brought inside.

Two MP's outside the room bring her in. Baines stays on guard

outside.

INTERROGATION ROOM

While the Guards stand on alert, Liz sits in a chair and

discovers a piece of paper on a side table, placed exactly

where her hand has come to rest. On the paper, in pencil, a

square with a square cross within. She flips over the note.

It reads, "GO CRAZY!"

She considers, then SCREAMS as loud as she can while running

around wildly.

OUTSIDE INTERROGATION ROOM

Hearing the commotion, Baines opens the door. Behind his

back, Cris steps from hiding, opens the door to a room and

slips inside, closing the door just as Baines looks back.

INTERROGATION ROOM

The MP's force Liz into a chair behind a desk.

Liz sees a drawer which is partially open. She looks inside.

Sees a hefty pair of scissors. Inside the drawer, a message

is written on the wood. "5:44, stab Wisdom." She looks at a

clock in the room. 5:41. But Wisdom isn't there.

CORRIDOR

Wisdom and Ferris, walking.

She looks him in the eye.

She accepts the terrible responsibility.

Wisdom turns to Baines.

Ferris walks to a nearby office and goes inside.

INTERROGATION ROOM

Liz anxiously checks the clock. 5:43 and still no Wisdom.

Then the door opens. And Wisdom enters.

They study each other, neither knowing the other's plans. She

glances aside at the clock.

FERRIS' OFFICE

She picks up the phone. Dials a number.

Behind her, Cris steps out of hiding. By the time she sees

him, his forearm is around her neck.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM

At 5:44, Liz grabs the scissors, lunges at Wisdom, and stabs

at his neck. He raises his arm in time to block the blow.

The two MP's in the room fight her off, calling to the

sentinels outside.

OUTSIDE THE INTERROGATION ROOM

Baines and the sentinels rush in to help.

When the corridor is empty and no one is looking, the door to

Ferris' office opens, and Cris emerges with Ferris as his

hostage.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM

MP's drag Liz away from Ferris.

CORRIDORS

Cris and Ferris make their way toward the entrance. They come

across a Patrol. The MP's take aim. Cris holds his gun to

Ferris' head.

IntERROGATION ROOM

Baines, on the radio, turns to Wisdom.

Wisdom thinks hard.

Baines tries not to be insubordinate.

Wisdom takes a deep breath - then grabs Liz by the arm and

aims his gun at her head.

CORRIDORS

Cris marches Ferris through the building, flanked by Security

Police who aim at him but hold their fire. WISDOM'S VOICE

comes over the public address system.

That gets his attention.

IntERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom holds Liz at gunpoint. She seems remarkably calm.

CORRIDORS

Near lobby, where Crack Shot repeatedly nailed Cris. This

time Crack Shot's shooting arm is in a sling, and he crouches

next to a substitute sniper, who lies in wait.

Cris walks into view and fires one shot, which wings the

substitute sniper -- causing him to miss his shot at Cris.

Cris pulls Ferris to the next location.

INTERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom and Liz. He watches the clock. Now she's afraid.

He shakes his head, trying to gather courage.

IN THE RAFTERS

Another sniper takes aim at a section of hallway that Cris is

approaching.

CROSSHAIRS

As Cris enters the sniper's field of vision, he shifts Ferris

to a different position, blocking the shot.

CORRIDOR

As they pass under him, Ferris sees the sniper above. Cris

takes aim at an empty space and fires just as a soldier

charges from hiding and absorbs the bullet as if deliberately

catching it with his body.

Cris breaks a window. Tosses a grenade outside.

EXT. HOMELAND SECURITY BULDING - DAY

The grenade explosion attracts many of the guards. Cris and

Ferris slip out the front door where the Guards were

previously stationed.

He addresses a Soldier in a patrol car.

The Soldier obeys. Cris shoves Ferris into the car and gets

in after her.

They drive off.

IntERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom, agonized, is about to pull the trigger. Liz,

trembling, sees that he's going to do it.

Ext. Car - DAY

Driving away. Ferris realizes that Cris' escape is going to

be successful. She checks her watch. It's 6:13.

He has taken the words right out of her mouth.

Cris nods.

She offers her card.

He takes it. The phone number stands out: 888-CFerris. Flips

the card out the window.

A helicopter lands on the road ahead, blocking the way.

Cris holds his gun threateningly to Ferris' head. Two MP's

get out of the helicopter, carrying something heavy.

Cris reacts to what he can't see yet.

They are carrying a body. They remove the hood from its head.

It's Liz. Dead.

Quaking with rage, Cris prepares to shoot Ferris.

INT. HOMELAND SECURITY - Corridors - DAY

Twenty minutes earlier. Cris is marching Ferris through the

corridors to the exit.

Cris stops in his tracks, quaking with rage.

Ferris seems pleased.

He checks his watch. 5:54.

Cris changes course and charges into a...

STAIRWELL

which he descends at a run, roughly dragging Ferris with him.

Cris shoves Ferris in front of him as a shield. Approaching a

turn in the stairs, he fires blindly. Rounding the turn, he

sees his would-be assassin collapsing, dead.

INTERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom keeps his gun aimed at Liz's head as he watches the

clock: 5:55 PM.

CORRIDOR

Cris charges out of the stairwell, shooting without

hesitation - forward, left, right, back - efficiently

targeting Security Police in the precise order of their

imminent readiness to fire at him. For each bullet, one

soldier dies.

Wisdom's voice comes over the P.A. System.

Cris and Ferris keep moving.

Cris marches right up to the Interrogation Room where Wisdom

holds Liz prisoner, using Ferris as a human shield.

Cris opens the door to the room, revealing Wisdom, Ferris,

and thirty Security Police and MP's - who take aim at him and

fire. Cris gets chopped to pieces.

Cris crouches on the floor outside the Interrogation Room,

reaches up and opens the door. He gets off a shot at Wisdom,

who lives long enough to put a bullet in Liz's heart.

Cris uses Ferris as a shield, gets off a burst of shots at

Wisdom, killing him instantly.

But a Soldier at Wisdom's side puts a bullet in Liz's heart --

then the thirty Security personnel blast Cris and Ferris to

pieces.

STAIRCASE - ONE MINUTE EARLIER

Cris, dragging Ferris, arrives at the level of the

Interrogation Room and continues down one more flight.

Using Ferris as a human shield, he shoots his way into...

INT. FORENSIC LAB - DAY

Where Cris previously saw the seized barrel of C4 Explosive.

He guns down several armed MP's whom he knows would be

present, then threatens the technicians.

They flee. Cris locks himself and Ferris inside.

Cris goes over to the bomb. Squints for a beat. IN FAST

FORWARD, CONDENSED TIME, MULTIPLE SNAPBACK, he goes through

the whole learning curve on bomb detonation, blowing himself

up - and snapping back to life -- several times before

figuring out the right way to set it off.

INTERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom holds Liz at arm's length with his gun pointed at her

head. Watching the clock count up to 6:00 PM. It's 5:59:41/

/42/43...

THE LAB

Cris moves the bomb. Closes his eyes for a beat. Moves the

bomb again. Closes his eyes. Opens them. Sets the detonator

to 10 seconds.

CORRIDOR OUTSIDE LAB

MP's wait, preparing to gun down Cris when he emerges. The

door opens. Ferris sprints out.

The crowd flees with her.

INTERROGATION ROOM

Wisdom watches the clock count advance. 5:59:55/56/57...

CORRIDOR

Now empty. Cris runs for it. Dives.

INTERROGATION ROOM

As Wisdom prepares to the pull the trigger, the bomb explodes

in a giant cataclysm.

Smoke and dust

Roiling. Opaque. Then clearing.

The center of the building

is gone. A jagged raw atrium extends several stories down and

up.

To the side, on a narrow ledge of floor extending from a

wall...crouches Liz. The only person remaining. She has

survived by inches. Very precise.

As she recovers from the blast, a door opens behind her. Cris

appears, extends a hand and helps her from her perch.

Ext. North vegas airport - night

A private jet warms up on the tarmac.

ext. Private jet - night

Cris and Liz bound up the entry steps, exhausted but elated.

INT. JET - NIGHT

At the door, no one is present to greet them. Odd.

They continue into the main cabin, where Neal, the Showgirl,

the Pilots, and the Flight Attendant are glued to the

television. Neal sees Cris and Liz, but hardly acknowledges

them. He's in shock. They all are.

Cris and Liz turn to the TV.

Liz and Cris look at each other, ashen.

Liz shakes her head, incredulous.

She looks at Cris like he's scum - and heads for the front of

the plane.

She walks out of the jet and down the steps.

Cris stands there, bereft, and watches her go. He has run out

of futures.

CLOSE ON CRIS

Tears escaping from his eyes. ROTATE FRAME and discover that

the previous cut was actually a...

LIZ'S HOUSE - DAWN

Where Cris lies in bed with Liz's head on his chest, the

morning after their first night [p. 45]. Since that point,

Cris has been up for hours - scanning the futures. Finding no

path worth taking.

INT. Wisdom's HOUSE - dawn

Ferris sleeps next to Wisdom. She's hogged the covers. Her

cell phone rings. Drowsily, she answers.

She sits up.

INT. Liz's kitchen - dawn

Cris is dressed. Despondent.

liz's bed - dawn

Liz. Sleeping. Cris sits next to her on the bed.

Her eyes flicker open. She sees him looking down at her like

an angel.

He proceeds with difficulty.

Seeing his misery, she softens.

He holds back tears.

Now she's crying.

He nods, wistful.

They kiss good-bye, and she makes it so wickedly sweet that

he can barely pull himself away.

Liz watches, mystified, as he leaves - stirred by feelings

for Cris that are just coming into being.

And he walks out the door.

Ext. LiZ'S HOUSE - DAY

Cris walks down the driveway to the street. He stands there a

beat, then Ferris' car drives up and stops in front of him.

Cris opens the passenger door and gets in.

INT. Ferris' car - DAY

They look at each other, coming from very different places.

Ferris shifts into gear and drives off.

He thinks how to phrase it.

Ext./Int. front window of cottage - DAY

Liz watches from inside as Ferris' car pulls away.

Liz puts her hand on her belly.

