FADE IN:

Jagged mountains defy a dark, foreboding sky. We hear

PLODDING HOOVES, CREAKING LEATHER. A lone wanderer

appears. Wearing a long coat and a battered hat, he

carries a bolt-action carbine. His name forgotten,

history remembers him simply as THE POSTMAN.

His laden pack mule, BILL, BRAYS, as they pass a battered

sign: "The Great Salt Lake Marina." They start down a

slope and begin to cross a...

DRY LAKE BED

A bizarre, wind-swept sight. Dozens of boats resting lee-

to on the dry, cracked earth. It's like God pulled the

plug. Rusty mooring chains snake their way around house

boats, ski boats and a cabin cruiser or two.

As The Postman continues to cross, the CAMERA PULLS BACK.

He's soon lost in the massive vista.

A RUMBLE of THUNDER. RAIN begins to fall. The earth just

sucks it up at first, but it's coming hard. Rivulets run.

Puddles form. We begin to get the feeling that soon these

boats will be tugging at the mooring chains once again.

TRACK a rivulet as it runs, filling up a depression in the

sand. And then, running to fill another in a series of

depressions. They make a pattern we recognize as --

MAN'S FOOTPRINTS

These tracks may already be days old as they fill with

rain water. Then, the sound of light, padded FOOTFALLS.

A LION ENTERS FRAME. Lean, hungry and dangerous, the big

cat has been tracking this man. He lets out a low,

disappointed GROWL. The rain has foiled his dinner

plans -- for now.

A bullet-ridden sign reads: "U.S. 84 North." The Postman

leads Bill down a barren 4-lane. Weeds poke up through

the asphalt. The rusting hulk of a car rests in the

median, covered in a tangle of purple wisteria. The

Postman plucks a flower. He sticks it into a buttonhole

and continues.

BILL BRAYS woefully.    In answer:

They near a sign: "Thank You For Visiting Utah." The

Postman waves, shouts to the sign as he passes it.

Bill tugs up weeds as The Postman is climbing up a ladder

on a highway that razor cuts the plains to the horizon.

Above, The Postman sands atop a billboard catwalk. He

references a tattered road atlas, scans the horizon

through binoculars with one broken lens. He pauses at a

Union 76 ball just visible above the tree line.

A 76 Station and the remains of a Howard Johnson's.

Alert, carbine in hand, The Postman leads in the mule.

Rusting cars sag on flattened tires. There's a stripped

fire engine, its cracked hoses leading to the HoJo

foundation which bristles with burned timbers.

Bill stops to drink out of a stream.   The Postman swats at

him with his hat.

Bill hangs his head. The Postman digs through his pack.

He removes an old Tupperware container and replaces its

contents -- a tiny sheaf of litmus papers and several

small bottles -- with stream water. He adds a few drops

from each bottle. Swirls it around. Then dips a tiny

strip of paper into the water. The paper turns a vivid

purple. The Postman is dubious.

Bill drinks.

The Postman takes his carbine and a burlap sack and

crosses to the 76 Station. An old extension ladder on the

ground. The pole holding up the 76 ball has a 30-degree

bend in it, like someone once tried to pull it over.

Beyond the 76 ball, the sun sets -- but we here in the

20th Century have never seen such a wild riot of color

before.

The Postman tries the station door. Locked. Smiling

ironically, he steps in through the blown-out window.

A shambles. The Postman kicks around the table. He finds

a few beat-up CDs, flips through them. Reads the label.

Tossing it, he turns, stops. There, resting on a pile of

trash is a bashed-in portable TV. The Postman smiles.

He steps over, switches on the set.      Nothing happens, but

The Postman pretends just the same.      He mimics static,

then:

The Postman stops suddenly.    Click.

The Postman stares at the blank screen a moment. There's

a sudden, panicked RUSTLING from behind the service

manager's desk. The Postman wheels around, raises the

carbine.

Sudden MOVEMENT. The Postman shouts in surprise as a Doe

dashes out from behind the desk. Scared, it bounds back

and forth between the walls. Then freezes in the corner.

The Postman sighs in relief, lowers the carbine.

The doe bolts for the window and runs right into Bill.

Bill has a conniption fit.

Investigating further, The Postman spots a cigarette

machine. The front glass is smashed and all the slots are

empty. But he looks down to the lock at the bottom. It's

intact. He pulls a crowbar from the sack, crouches by the

machine and digs the pry into a seam and pulls.

The panel bursts open to reveal four half-open cartons of

cigarettes. He doesn't believe it for a second. Then:

Embers of a campfire glow.    The Postman is asleep, the

carbine in reach.

BILL BRAYS and nervously stamps his hooves. The Postman

reaches for the carbine only to find the barrel of a

shotgun pointed in his face.

Three BANDITS! Hard-eyed and ugly. One, barely 20, is

mostly just ugly. The Postman looks down the barrels of a

shotgun, a rifle and a revolver. The LEAD BANDIT kicks

the carbine out of reach.

The Lead Bandit pokes at The Postman's shoulder with the

muzzle of his rifle. The Postman knows why.

The Lead Bandit pokes again. Harder. The Postman opens

his shirt, reveals his bare left shoulder.

They just stare at him, none saying a word.      Creepy.

The third BANDIT, a HULKING brute, has been quiet.

The Hulking Bandit, raises his shotgun. The butt end.

He's going to bludgeon The Postman to death.

The 76 ball is twenty feet above the ground. In the gloom

you can just see a hole has been punched through the side.

The Lead Bandit swats Bandit #20 upside the head.

The Lead Bandit is about to smack Bandit #20 again -- then

he sees the logic out of it. The Postman shakes his head,

but isn't that convincing.

The ladder set against the bent pole. Prodded by a

shotgun, The Postman climbs, disappears through the hole

and into the tilting 76 ball.

Full of The Postman's earthly possessions. Trick is, how

to save them and his life at the same time. He spies an

old wrench: remnant of an attempt to remove the rusty

bolts holding the ball in place. An idea begins to take

shape.

BANDITS

There's no answer.     The Bandits eye each other nervously.

76 BALL

The Postman grabs the wrench, starts working one of the

last two rusted bolts. As it starts to give...

BANDITS

The Lead Bandit takes a cautious step back.

The Hulking Bandit picks up the carbine and aims. CLICK.

It isn't loaded. The Hulking Bandit tosses the gun aside,

pulls a knife from his boot. Grimly, he begins to climb.

76 BALL

Cramped, The Postman's busy at the base of the ball,

trying to unscrew the last remaining bolt. It won't

budge.

LADDER

The Hulking Bandit has only a few more rungs to go.

76 BALL

No good.   Time's up.   The Postman starts rocking the pole.

LADDER

The Hulking Bandit has reached the opening -- feels the

rocking motion. Hangs on.

76 BALL

Knife in hand, the Hulking Bandit looks inside. At that

instant, The Postman rocks the pole one more time. The

rusty bolt is not enough to keep the ball's full weight in

place. It pops. The ball is frozen for an instant before

going with the pole's tilt.

LADDER

The 76 ball drops off the pole, rolling over the Hulking

Bandit's back and down the ladder's incline. The other

Bandits dive clear as the 76 ball hurtles past.

THE POSTMAN

whips head over heels as the ball speeds away.

FIELD

The 76 ball launches off a dirt berm, but soon comes to a

stop as it slams into an old utility pole and bursts

apart. Fighting the vertigo, The Postman staggers to his

feet.

Bill bolts from the station as the Lead Bandit raises the

RIFLE and FIRES at The Postman.

Losing balance, The Postman lands on his butt just before

a bullet splinters the utility pole above his head.

Wobbly, he tries to gather his packs. The Bandits charge,

quickly closing the ground, but Bill is there first.

Holding as much as he can, The Postman heaves himself over

Bill's back. As the mule gallops away, the Lead Bandit

aims the rifle. He's got The Postman in his sights.

He's about to fire when -- Bandit #20 stands up INTO the

SHOT. He's got a fistful of cigarettes in each hand and

he's laughing like a hyena!

