<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

Solaris - by Steven Soderbergh -  October 4, 2001 draft

First, over BLACK, we hear the sound of a light rain.

Then:

EXT.  WOODS - DAY

A mural of leafless trees beneath an overcast sky.  Rain

continues to fall.

Maybe now we begin to notice a strange quality to the light

(or is it the sky?).  Something vaguely unsettling.

INT.  BEDROOM - MORNING

Still, the sound of rain is heard.

A MAN

40s, lies on his side in bed, staring at us.

He has not been sleeping.  In fact, judging from his distant

expression, he has not slept in ages.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Less like a road and more like a path that you maneuver a

vehicle through.

The Man, dressed in rain gear, walks down the middle.  He is

accompanied by a medium-sized LABRADOR, and seems in no

particular hurry.

The sound of tires appear and grow in intensity.  The Man,

without saying an actual word, instructs the dog to heal.

The dog obeys as the Man moves off the road.  The vehicle

hurtles past him -- its engine quiet, its windows darkened --

spraying muddy debris in its wake.

Seconds later, the car brakes abruptly and skids to a stop.

THE MAN

Stops walking and stares at the car, which seems ominously

still.

The car then reverses direction and begins to move toward the

Man, who remains motionless.

When the car is alongside him, a darkened window turns

transparent and we see a WELL-DRESSED BUREAUCRAT in the rear

seat.  His demeanor is pleasant and professional.

The Man he is addressing, who we now understand is CHRIS

KELVIN, stares back at him.

INT.  CABIN - DAY

The contrast between the cabin's rustic aesthetic and the

aggressively high-tech equipment contained therein isn't as

jarring as you might imagine.

Kelvin is seated in front of a desk, scrolling through a text

readout on a flat, transparent holographic screen.  Behind

him is the Well-Dressed Bureaucrat from the car, and two

others: A WOMAN in her 50s and a MAN in his 30s.  They are

also well-groomed.  Each of their suits are embroidered with

a small but distinctive LOGO of some sort that composes the

acronym DBA.

Kelvin scrolls through several menus, hits a few keys, and a

digitized VIDEO IMAGE appears on his screen: A MAN, unshaven,

looking into the camera.

The man, GIBARIAN, looks very tired and somewhat apologetic.

The lower part of the screen has a time of day and date

display that reads: 0221 HRS 11/14/31.

Gibarian stares at the camera for a long moment before

switching it off and ending the transmission.

Kelvin sits back.

The visitors exchange glances.

INT.  SPACE CAPSULE

Close on Kelvin.  We hold on him a long time, as a myriad of

readouts scroll and flash across his face.  A slit of

sunlight glides slowly through frame.

KELVIN

in the same capsule, a month later.  He is asleep.

KELVIN

in the same capsule, two months later.  He is dictating some

coordinates to Earth.  He absently scratches his heavy growth

of beard.

KELVIN

two months later still.  He is looking out his small,

rectangular window, and for the fist time we cut around to

see the approaching planet: SOLARIS.

Kelvin stares at it, hypnotized.  It has a translucent

quality, as though it is lit from within, and its undulating,

ocean-like surface slowly changes colors.

Kelvin's attention is diverted as an orbiting ship, the

PROMETHEUS, edges into frame.

No response.  He exhales and types on a keyboard.

EXT.  SPACE

The Athena 7, sporting a DBA logo, advances toward the

Prometheus.

INT.  PROMETHEUS

Kelvin, in a space suit, climbs with some difficulty out of

the Athena 7, which has come to rest in the DOCKING BAY of

the Prometheus.  Several exploratory PODS fill the remainder

of the area.

Kelvin gets his bearings and looks around, but sees no sign

of life.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Empty.

(NOTE: Except for some ROBOTIC, NON-SPEAKING CHARACTERS: the

AUTOMATED TASKMASTERS.  These are small, bug-like repair

units that constantly roam the ship, fixing things.  Their

tiny hum is virtually silent, and we see them all the time on

the Prometheus.  They can adhere to any surface at any

angle.)

Kelvin, now out of his space suit and holding a small

carrying case and a duffle bag, moves on.

INT.  GIBARIAN'S ROOM

Ransacked.

Kelvin registers it, then moves to the corner of the room

where the computer terminal rests.  Within moments he has

discovered Gibarian has recorded a video message for him to

replay.

VIDEO

Gibarian addressing the camera.  He appears to be lucid, but

extremely fatigued.

A long moment of silence is broken by a noise on the video,

which draws Gibarian's attention offscreen.

Gibarian switches off the video.

The computer screen freezes the last recorded frame and

overlays a readout indicating the file has ended.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Empty.  But there is a door at the end of it, slightly open.

Kelvin moves toward it.

INT.  ROOM

A FIGURE, seated with its back to the door, turns to see

Kelvin enter.  This is SNOW.  He looks Kelvin up and down,

his expression wary and alert.

A long beat.  Snow just watches him.

Kelvin takes a step forward, and Snow recoils.

A beat.

Snow exhales, then looks up as though he's remembered

something.

A long beat as Kelvin stares at Snow.

Snow lies back in his bunk.

Kelvin stops, but doesn't turn around.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Kelvin stands outside a door.

A beat.

Sartorius cracks the door open and slithers through the slit

and into the hallway.  He is of obvious intelligence and not

to be messed with; contentious, intimidating when he wants to

be, and probably brilliant.  Kelvin eyes him suspiciously.

Sartorius is grabbed by something on the other side of his

door.  He struggles to keep his composure.

Sartorius is losing the battle with whomever or whatever is

on the other side of his door.

Sartorius rotates and zips back into his room.  As the door

closes Kelvin sees a flash of ANOTHER FIGURE in Sartorius'

room.  The glimpse was too quick to judge who or what the

other figure could have been.

INT.  CORRIDOR - DAY

Kelvin walks, exploring the ship.  He sees something that

stops him:

A NUDE WOMAN

Black, early 20s, slipping across a corridor up ahead.

Kelvin gives chase.  He sees her turn a corner, but by the

time he gets there, she is gone.

INT.  SNOW'S ROOM

Snow is lying on his bunk.

Snow looks at him but doesn't respond.

Snow lies back down.

A beat.

Snow rolls over, away from Kelvin.

EXT.  SPACE

Solaris.  Quiet, but still active somehow.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin speaks into a video communication device.  As he does,

we see images of the things and people he describes.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Later.  Kelvin is lying down.  The lights are out, and he is

trying to sleep.

After a moment, he gets up, checks the lock on his door, and

lies back down.

Then he gets up and moves a chair in front of the door, and

lies back down.

Then he gets up and puts two heavy cases on top of the chair,

and lies back down.

Laughing to himself, he drifts off to sleep.

Silence.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On Kelvin, asleep.

ANOTHER ANGLE

On Kelvin, still asleep.  Then:

EXTREME CLOSE-UP:

A WOMAN'S LIPS, slightly parted.

BACK TO KELVIN

Asleep.  Then:

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Continued silence, AND:

RHEYA, 30s, staring at us, practically daring us to look

away.  Her obvious intelligence and confidence make her

extremely compelling, along with the fact that it was her

parted lips we were looking at a moment ago.  Her expression

indicates she's in a very raw emotional state.

REVERSE ANGLE

Kelvin is the person she has locked eyes with on the TRAIN.

He is younger here; not just in age, but in spirit.  The

contrast with his older self is striking.

BACK TO KELVIN

Asleep on the ship.  After a beat:

EXTREME CLOSE-UP:

Rheya's LIPS.

Except the circumstance is clearly different: it's darker and

there isn't the side-to-side shimmy of the train car.

A WIDER VIEW

Reveals that Rheya is not sitting on the train -- she is

sitting in Kelvin's room on the Prometheus, right now.

She is staring at Kelvin and she is ethereal in her

stillness.

KELVIN

Awakens, blinks, and slowly recognizes her.

If he is not entirely surprised it is because he has

obviously dreamed of Rheya before.  He looks at her, simply.

RHEYA

Stands and makes her way to Kelvin.

Without hesitation she kisses him and they begin to explore

each other and we see all of it happen and two things are

obvious: first, they have done this before, and two: they

haven't done it in some time.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep, Rheya in his arms.

He wakes up and looks at her, perplexed.  After a beat he

rises to sit on the edge of the bed.

A wave of terror is barely suppressed as he puts his hand to

his forehead.  Rheya opens her eyes.

He looks at her.

She moves to him and kisses him as if that's all she wants to

do, forever.

Between kisses.

She stops.

Hearing his name spoken by her (and those particular words,

perhaps) nearly causes Kelvin to scream.

He stands and moves to the chair.  Rheya watches him.

He looks up at her for as long as he can.  Then he looks

down.

He doesn't look up.

A beat.

She bolts out of bed.

She is trying to accommodate him but her fear of being left

alone is palpable, even excessive.  He sees this and puts his

arms on her shoulders to comfort her.

He hands her a few pills and retrieves a glass of water.

She takes the pills and smiles.

INT.  DOCKING BAY

Kelvin leads Rheya to one of the exploratory pods.  They are

in space suits.

He opens the door of a pod and indicates for her to enter.

She is unsure.

She stares up and into the pod.  Kelvin watches her go with

difficulty and then CLOSES THE DOOR behind Rheya.

He walks across the docking bay to the control room and

begins preparations for the pod to be jettisoned.

KELVIN

In agony as he watches a real-time, beat-by-beat brand of

technological murder take place: Rheya's pod is pushed off

into space.

RHEYA

Her face contorted in confusion, watches through the pod

window as the docking bay doors close in front of her with a

brutal finality.

KELVIN

collapses to the ground, shattered.

INSERT:

A woman's HAND, resting on the floor of an apartment.  The

fingers are being licked by a LABRADOR PUPPY.

ANOTHER INSERT:

A pot of coffee, on the boil.  Except that it has been left

unattended for too long...

ANOTHER INSERT:

A rain-streaked window.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, on the edge of his bed.  He wants to tear himself

inside out.

A voice calls over the intercom: Snow's.

Kelvin rises and goes to wash his face.

Kelvin nods.

A beat.

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM

Before Kelvin's arrival.

Gibarian is talking to Snow and Sartorius.

We now show this scene being played out on a video monitor,

watched by Kelvin.

Gibarian considers this.

ANOTHER VIDEO

This time, Gibarian alone.  Near the end.

INT.  LAB

Kelvin stares at Gibarian's body, which is lying under a

sheet in the ship's operating room.  Also under the sheet,

next to Gibarian: The Young Girl.

EXT.  SPACE

A shot hovering over the surface of Solaris.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is lying down, looking at the door.

After a beat, he turns out the lights and rolls over.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Time has passed.  Kelvin is asleep.

RHEYA leans into frame and kisses him.

Without even waking, he kisses her back, hungrily.

They make love.  It's even better than before.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya are asleep.

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Kelvin, staring intently.  What he is staring at is Rheya,

who is seated across from him.  She doesn't see him, yet.

When she does, she locks eyes with his and doesn't look away.

This continues until she gets off the train.  Kelvin watches

her go, and she looks back at him through the window as the

train pulls away.

INT.  PARTY - NIGHT

Rheya enters, looks around.  She spots Kelvin, who has

already spotted her.  Their expressions indicate they are

pleased to see each other again.  He approaches her, and they

stare at each other a long time, until:

He leans over and whispers into her ear.  She listens, and

when he finishes, she leans back and looks at him, intrigued.

Genuinely intrigued.  He smiles.

He nods, and they smile.  They seem to be rooting for each

other.  After an extended pleasurable moment, Rheya leans

over and whispers in his ear.  He listens, then leans back

and looks at her.

INT.  FRIEND'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Another night.

Rheya is wound up.  Not drunk, something else.  She has an

odd look in her eyes.

We are at a dinner party, and there are people trying -- but

failing -- not to watch.

He is stung.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

The immediate aftermath of the preceding scene, but at home

now.

Rheya crying as she embraces Kelvin.

He is unmoved, but she labors to change his mind.

INT.  APARTMENT - MORNING

Rheya, in a chair, remorseful, Kelvin is dressing.

A beat.

They look at each other and understand; she will take the

pills.

INT.  APARTMENT - MORNING

Rheya, on the floor, dead.  Her hand outstretched, a repeat

of an image we saw earlier.

Rain streaks the kitchen window.

The bottle of pills nearby.

INT.  PROMETHEUS

Rheya is taking her pills.  Kelvin watches.

She looks out the portal at Solaris.

A beat.

She looks at him and can't keep from smiling, eventually.

Kelvin smiles.

The intercom comes to life.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is getting ready to leave.  Rheya sits on the edge of

the bed, nervous.

She nods and Kelvin exits, locking the door behind him.

We sit with her for a moment as she tries to remain calm.

IN THE CORRIDOR

Kelvin listens.  A long time.

Satisfied, he begins to walk away but is stopped by the

sounding of a CRASHING GLASS from within.  He hears footsteps

approach the door, and then a fierce POUNDING.

He takes a step back.  An INHUMAN AMOUNT OF NOISE begins

emanating from the other side of the door, which is now

threatening to break apart.  It sounds like a plane is

crashing in Kelvin's room -- no human could create this kind

of cacophony.

Finally, he steps forward and presses the button to open the

door.

RHEYA

Is revealed, covered in blood.  She has completely torn the

inside of the cabin door apart and has badly injured herself

in the process.

Confused, she looks up at him as he takes her in his arms and

carries her to the bed.

He puts her down on the bed and runs to the bathroom, where

he gathers all the first aid materials he can find.

Returning, he blanches.

Rheya's wounds have HEALED; in fact, they are HEALING in

front of us.

She looks up at him and doesn't like the look on his face.

INT.  LAB

Kelvin runs Rheya through a battery of tests and studies the

results.

A beat.

INT.  B DECK CONFERENCE ROOM

Snow and Sartorius wait for Kelvin.

Kelvin enters, with Rheya.  Snow and Sartorius exchange

glances.

She looks at Snow and nods.  Sartorius she hates instantly,

and the feeling seems to be mutual.

Sartorius begins.

Kelvin and Snow nod.

Sartorius looks at Rheya.  She looks away.

Kelvin looks at Rheya and nods.  She is struck by the word

"before".

He nods again.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

This is ten years ago.  Rheya enters, alone.

She crosses to the kitchen and makes a drink.  Almost

immediately, the labrador puppy enters from the bedroom and

stands beside her, tail wagging.  She ignores it and

continues mixing her drink.

Halfway through this activity, the bedroom light comes on.  A

moment later, Kelvin is in the doorway.  Eventually, but not

angrily, because he's still not really awake:

She finishes making her drink, drinks it, and walks out the

door.

Kelvin stands in the doorway for a beat, then pivots and

returns to bed.  The light goes out.

INT.  PARTY - NIGHT

Kelvin and Rheya, later in the evening when they spoke for

the first time.  They are absolutely infatuated with each

other; they know something is happening between them, will

happen between them.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya sit together in the Prometheus.  Rheya

continues her story without a beat.

Another beat.

INT.  OFFICES - DAY

Intercut Kelvin and Rheya at their respective jobs, going

through a normal day.  There is no sound.  As we see these

images, it's clear that Kelvin and Rheya are slightly not

present in their respective encounters with other people;

they are distracted by the idea of each other.

And they like it.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rheya on the edge of the bed, facing away.

As she does:

A beat.  Then a shot of Kelvin that we've seen before: Him

leaving their apartment, angry.

ON THE PROMETHEUS

A beat.

Rheya shakes her head.

Kelvin just watches her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

The rain-streaked window.

An automated coffee maker has been left on, and the

solidified coffee at the bottom of the pot is smoking.

Rheya's body is on the floor of the kitchen.

RHEYA (ON PROMETHEUS)

She is looking at Kelvin.  He is dreading this.

He nods.  It's coming back to her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin is yelling at Rheya.  We don't hear what he's saying,

but judging from her reaction, it's not pleasant.  She is

crying.

RHEYA (ON PROMETHEUS)

Experiencing this all over again.  Kelvin comes and sits in

front of her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin, still yelling, is packing some things into a

suitcase.  Rheya, between sobs, pleads with him.

RHEYA (ON PROMETHEUS)

Her eyes fill with tears.  Kelvin embraces her.

Rheya is devastated, inconsolable.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya lies on the kitchen floor, dead.  There is a NOTE in

her hand.

Kelvin kneels next to her.

KELVIN (ON PROMETHEUS)

With Rheya still in his arms.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin holds the dead Rheya.

KELVIN (ON PROMETHEUS)

Squeezing her.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin lies in bed, his eyes open.  Rheya is in his arms.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya, talking to Chris.  Obviously during a period when they

were getting along.  Or at least: not fighting.

She knows, intellectually, that he is right.  But it doesn't

matter.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is out of bed and speaking into a videophone to Snow.

Rheya is asleep in the background.  The room is dark except

for the glow of the screen.

Kelvin just looks back at Rheya.

Kelvin doesn't respond.

Kelvin just keeps staring at Rheya, asleep.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is eating with Rheya.  Looking at her.  Desiring her.

He leans over and whispers in her ear.  She smiles and leans

back.

He just stares at her -- he really likes this.  It's

familiar, this type of teasing, and it reminds him of when

things were good.

A beat.

They laugh.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya, post-coital.  Relaxed.  On the verge of

sleep.

She smiles.

They consider that.

They smile at this.  Rheya's smile fades before Kelvin's.

A beat.  He holds her.

A beat.

EXT.  SOLARIS

Turning, slowly.

INT.  APARTMENT - NIGHT

Then years ago.  Kelvin, naked, sitting in a chair, in the

dark.  Rheya, also naked, is smoking a cigarette in bed.

She just smokes, not really looking at him.  Maybe it's a

common observation and she's past being defensive about it.

A beat.  He looks at her.  She seems more interested in her

cigarette at the moment.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

On the Prometheus.  Rheya is awake, Kelvin asleep.

She rises and goes to sit in a chair; she is anxious,

something we haven't seen before.

Kelvin wakes up, looks at her.  Noting her expression:

A beat.  She looks down.

He doesn't respond.

Calmly:

He's looking at her, and knows this is dangerous territory.

She nods.  He can only imagine what form Sartorius' anecdotes

must have taken.

A beat.

A long beat.  Kelvin shakes his head.

Another beat.  He nods.  Then:

If she seems satisfied for the moment, Kelvin knows the

feeling won't last.

She falls asleep.

FADE IN:

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM

Kelvin, Rheya, Sartorius, and Snow.  They are in the middle

of a heated discussion.

A beat.

Looks at Rheya, then back to Kelvin.

Kelvin moves toward him.  Sartorius just lets him come.

Kelvin is within an inch of his face.

Slowly, carefully, Sartorius grasps Kelvin by the shoulders.

Then he leans in and whispers in Kelvin's ear:

Kelvin backs away.

Sartorius turns...

And leaves.

A beat.

Snow wanders toward the door.

He passes Kelvin and leaves.

Kelvin watches him, then looks at Rheya.  She seems dazed.

EXT.  SOLARIS

The fog-shrouded surface, shifting and turning like an ocean.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Rheya is asleep.  Kelvin is talking to Snow on the

videophone.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM - EARLIER

Quick glimpses of Rheya.  In several of them she is in

repose, thinking, as if to illustrate Snow's point.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Back to Kelvin, thinking.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin on the bed with Rheya.  Their eyes are closed.

We think they are asleep until:

She realizes she doesn't want to argue.  Not right now,

anyway.

He kisses her.  She wants to believe him, so she says

nothing.  Then:

They kiss again...

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep.  Rheya is next to him.

Offscreen, we hear the door open.

Someone walks quietly (though not surreptitiously) through

the frame and sits.

After a long beat, Kelvin bolts upright, his mind struggling

to clear.  When it does:

A beat.  Kelvin tries to get his bearings.

He smiles, looking at Kelvin.

Kelvin registers this.

Gibarian smiles.

KELVIN

wakes up, gulping air.  Rheya, startled:

He moves to the chair, looking for some residue of Gibarian,

some proof.  Finding none:

Kelvin leaves the room.  After a few beats, Rheya follows.

INT.  LAB

Rheya lingers behind Kelvin, who is looking at Gibarian's

body.

It is there, alone on its slab; even the Young Girl is not

with him.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, thinking.  He gives Rheya some pills to take.  She

just looks at them.

She nods and takes them.

He goes to her.

She sits, frustrated.  Sad.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya, in bed.  She looks despondent.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep.  Alone.

After a long period of silence, we hear the faint sound of an

instrument of some sort hitting the ground.  After another

beat, Kelvin awakens.  He notices that he is alone, and

something tells him that's not a good sign.

INT.  LAB

Rheya is on the ground, convulsing.  Beside her is a SMALL

STEEL DRUM, which is spilling a strange-looking LIQUID that

solidifies and vaporizes with a smoky hiss.

Kelvin moves to Rheya and is startled to see that half of her

face and throat are burned away -- not melted as in a fire,

but merely eaten cleanly away.  He picks her up.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Kelvin is carrying Rheya.  Snow sticks his head out of a

passing room.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin puts Rheya on the bed.  Her face and throat have

returned to normal, but she is not breathing.  Kelvin goes

and puts his head to her chest, but doesn't hear what he

hoped to hear.  He stands, still looking at her.  Snow seems

very detached.

An uncomfortably long moment as we realize she is actually

not going to wake up.

Snow says nothing.

Then:

Her finger twitches.

Barely noticeable at first, but growing in intensity.  Kelvin

sees it, and goes to her.  She is starting to shake a little,

as though cold.

Kelvin is still looking at Rheya, who is shaking a little

harder; it's feeling like a seizure now.

Rheya is shaking much harder now, Kelvin tries to hold her

still, but she's too strong.  He stands, reluctantly, and

watches her.

Rheya is shaking violently now, as if a rippling rhythmic

force were coursing through her.  Snow, as he looks

dispassionately on the two of them:

He leaves.

Rheya continues her process of "waking up" -- it's violent,

even sexual.  She spasms to a peak of some sort, and then

slowly returns to normal.

Kelvin puts his hand on her forehead.

She gradually begins to open her eyes.  She looks at Kelvin.

It takes her a moment to realize she shouldn't be seeing him;

she shouldn't be seeing anything.  She should be dead.

She begins to cry.

She turns away.

He turns her over.

A beat.

He doesn't know.

EXT.  SOLARIS

Turning slowly.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya, in bed.

A long beat.

INSERT:

The first time Kelvin and Rheya spoke, at the party ten years

ago.  Again we see her whisper in Kelvin's ear, but this time

we hear what she is saying:

She pulls back.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin, as he packs to leave Rheya.

He leaves, brushing past her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya, unconscious, on the kitchen floor.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

A long, held shot of Rheya, crying.  She is curled up,

retreating into herself.  Kelvin is trying to console her.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya on the kitchen floor, the note in her hand.

Kelvin is kneeling over her.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin and Rheya.  She is sobbing, but somewhat calmer.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, asleep.

GIBARIAN

As we saw him before, sitting in the chair.  But we didn't

hear him say this before:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

In the immediate aftermath of her suicide attempt with the

liquid oxygen:

He tries to console her, but she recoils.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya, as Kelvin brushes past her on his way out.  She looks

desperate.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Rheya and Kelvin.

A beat.

They kiss.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep.  Rheya is next to him.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is on the videophone to Snow.

A beat.

Kelvin just stares at him.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

He is playing back a message sent by Sartorius.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin wakes up.  Rheya is beside him.  He rises and heads

for the bathroom.

He swallows two pills and a small cup of water.

When he returns to the bed, Rheya is looking at him.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Rheya, on the kitchen floor.  The bottle of sleeping pills

just beyond her hand.

BACK ON THE PROMETHEUS

Kelvin looks at Rheya.  She shakes her head; she doesn't want

the pills.  Kelvin comes and sits beside her.

She goes to a portal and stares out at Solaris.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Snow on the videophone to Kelvin.  Rheya is asleep in the

background.

GIBARIAN

On his suicide tape:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Rheya and Kelvin.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin is asleep.  Rheya is crying beside him.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin asleep, alone.  Rheya is in the corridor, talking to

someone.

KELVIN

wakes up.  Rheya is beside him, asleep.

EXT.  SOLARIS

Turning, slowly.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin, in a fever, eyes open but glazed.

Rheya is putting a compress on his forehead.

KELVIN'S POV

Of the room.

His LABRADOR FROM THE OPENING SEQUENCE is sitting by the

chair.

INT.  KELVIN'S CABIN (EARTH)

Kelvin sits in a chair, looking at:

THE LABRADOR

Sitting in the same position as it was on the Prometheus.

KELVIN

Breathes a sigh of relief at being home.  Everything seems

slowed down, somehow.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

On the Prometheus.  Kelvin is in bed, feverish.

He sees Rheya, in the hallway again, talking to someone we

can't see.

KELVIN

Wakes up again.  Rheya is asleep beside him.

INT.  TRAIN

Rheya, the first day she and Kelvin saw each other.

EXT.  STREET CORNER - DAY

Ten years ago.  Kelvin and Rheya standing on a street corner.

They seem to be pausing in the midst of a very serious

conversation.  It is raining.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

Kelvin in bed, on the Prometheus.  Still feverish.

Rheya is mopping his brow.

INT.  KELVIN'S CABIN (EARTH)

Kelvin in bed, feverish.

Rheya is there, wiping his forehead.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM

On the Prometheus.  Kelvin looks over to Rheya.

She begins to cry.

She just shakes her head.

From Kelvin's point of view: Rheya, in the chair, crying.

Then he looks right to see: Rheya, in the doorway, talking to

someone we cannot see.

Then he looks further to the right, and there she is again,

staring at him from the bathroom doorway.  She moves to the

edge of the bed in order to be near.

KELVIN

Sweating.  Struggling.  Beyond fear.

INT.  CABIN - DAY

Kelvin sits in his chair, as he did at the beginning, with

the three officials from DBA behind him.

Only now the three officials are Snow, Sartorius, and

Gibarian.

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM (PROMETHEUS)

Kelvin, transfixed.

This idea forces him to rise, and he does, slowly.

INT.  CORRIDOR

Behind Kelvin as he somehow keeps moving.

We hold a long time, and then:

BLACK.

Count to ten.  Then:

EXT.  STREET

Kelvin moving down a crowded sidewalk, in slow motion.

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Kelvin, traveling home from the city.

EXT.  KELVIN'S CABIN - DAY

Kelvin returns.  He stops and looks around before entering

his front door.

KEVIN'S POV

Of the woods.

But there are strange incongruities in the image -- pieces of

the Prometheus breaking through; for instance, a few of the

AUTOMATED TASKMASTERS are crawling along the ground.

KELVIN

Looking from the doorway, notes this.  He doesn't seem

surprised, though.

INT.  KELVIN'S CABIN - NIGHT

Kelvin, in his bed, awake.

BLACK.

Count to five.  Then:

INT.  KELVIN'S ROOM (PROMETHEUS)

Kelvin is in his bed, still feverish.

He looks around the room.  He is alone.

A flashing light on his computer demands attention.

ON THE COMPUTER

A video message from Rheya.

She looks away.

Kelvin breaks down.

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kelvin, with the dead Rheya in his arms, crying.  Beyond him

is the rain-streaked window.  On the floor, by her hand, is

the note.  On it is scrawled the end of a Dylan Thomas poem,

the one Kelvin quoted to her the first time they spoke.

INT.  PARTY - NIGHT

The first night.  Again, Kelvin leans into Rheya's ear and

whispers.  This time we hear what he says:

INT.  APARTMENT - DAY

Kevin holding Rheya.

The note on the floor.

The rain-streaked window.

Kelvin wipes the hair from her face.

INT.  PROMETHEUS

Kelvin, furious, is talking through a slit in Sartorius'

door.

Kelvin looks around.

Kelvin moves away.

EXT.  SOLARIS

Still turning, slowly.

But something about its appearance is different.

INT.  PROMETHEUS

Complete chaos.

Kelvin is chasing Sartorius to the flight deck.

INT.  FLIGHT DECK

Kelvin and Sartorius get the ship ready for take off.

Kelvin turns and sees one of the video monitors that Snow is

sitting in his room.

Snow doesn't reply.

Snow looks up.  There's a strange look on his face.

This stops Kelvin and Sartorius.  They look at each other and

then at the monitor.

Snow lies down on his bed.  Kelvin looks at Sartorius.

Kelvin nods and obeys.  He then takes one last look at the

monitor to see Snow lying in bed.  Kelvin reaches over and

shuts the monitor off.

EXT.  SPACE

Silence.

The Prometheus moves away from Solaris.

CLOSER ON SOLARIS

After the ship has gone.

A soft black spot begins to form in the center of the planet.

Slowly, inexorably, this black spot begins to expand.

Within a minute Solaris has disappeared.

EXT.  STREET CORNER - DAY

Kelvin, back on Earth.  Silent and still.  And the rain

continues.

He watches the activity; the cars, buses, and people moving

to and fro.

Kelvin begins to walk.

INT.  TRAIN - DAY

Kelvin taking the train to the suburbs.

EXT.  ROAD - DAY

Kelvin makes his way toward his cabin.  As he nears, his

LABRODOR recognizes him and approaches.

Kelvin pats the dog's coat.

EXT.  CABIN - DAY

Kelvin is near the front door, dog at his heel.  He looks in

as he brings his key to the lock and his face FREEZES.

RHEYA

Is in the living room, waiting for him.

She is sitting on the sofa, looking toward the other side of

the room.  Sensing someone, she turns to see Kelvin, and her

face melts into a smile.

KELVIN

Opens the door.  He cannot speak.

RHEYA

Rises and moves toward him.

They embrace.

He breathes her in.  She squeezes him.

After a long beat:

She sways with him, gently.  His body relaxes.

EXT.  CABIN - DAY

A tableau of the cabin.  The dog is on the front step,

seemingly content despite the light rain.

As fog drifts in, we RISE, and soon the mist has nearly

obscured the house.  The fog turns into clouds and we get

fleeting glimpses of the cabin, as we move farther and

farther away.

We stay in a translucent white stage for a few moments, until

gradually the edges of a circle become apparent in the

corners of the frame.  Still there is a light rain sound.

These dark, rounded edges penetrate further until they are

forming the shape of a circle.

The misty consistency begins to gain some color and body.

And we realize we are now looking at the surface of Solaris.

