FADE IN :

An ever expanding infinity of light and color as CAMERA

TRAVELS THROUGH deep space, MOVING DIRECTLY for one

pinpoint of light: a STAR GROWING RAPIDLY as we SWEEP

TOWARD IT, a normal white star SUDDENLY CHANGING,

brightening, flaring unbelievable intensity: supernova.

The CAMERA HOLDS just a moment, then MOVES on, SEARCH-

ING through space, the jeweled beauty of other star

systems, sparkling nebulae, swirling hydrogen clouds.

STILL MOVING, then CAMERA FINDS:

In the far distance, slowly growing in size as CAMERA

APPROACHES: it resembles, vaguely at this distance, an

Aurora Borealis: flaring colors from the fringes,

beautiful yet ominous. It is so large, this Cloud, it

can envelope an entire solar system. CAMERA CONTINUES

APPROACHING the Cloud, and then suddenly, crossing

our POV, a:

In a graceful, turning arc toward the mysterious

LUMINESCENCE. CAMERA FOLLOWS this Klingon, then FINDS

a second Klingon cruiser, also turning toward the Cloud,

which continues to grow in size as the Klingons

approach at warp speed, CAMERA CLOSING on the lead

ship, until the vessel's detail can be clearly MADE

OUT: lights, weaponry, power systems, identification

emblazoned on the nacelles and saucer in Klingon

language (and symbols).

Clearly alien, an ODD-SOUNDING KLAXON signaling

"battle stations." Orders issued in KLINGON LANGUAGE,

the KLINGON CAPTAIN and EXEC peering at an unusual

bridge viewer at the huge area of LUMINESCENT HAZE

directly ahead. In KLINGON DIALOGUE:

goes suddenly  to a TACTICAL GRID SYSTEM, showing the

LUMINESCENT HAZE to be an ENORMOUS BLIP OF LIGHT ON

THE SCREEN, with two TINY PINPRICKS OF LIGHT complete-

ing their turn on a direct course toward it.

The Patrol is clearly SEEN now on the right of the

bottom of the FRAME... THREE tiny ships closing on the

steadily growing LUMINESCENT HAZE.

All eyes on the viewer that shows the ships sweeping

on the Mysterious cloud.

The TECHNICIAN makes the switch.

growing ever larger, its flaring colors menacing,

mysterious, strangely beckoning.

The crew stands by for battle.

sliding open, the glowing "Hell Fire" of the Photon

Launch tubes, slowly revealed.

They are tiny, insect-like shapes moving still CLOSER

to the Luminescent Cloud, so large now that it begins

to dominate all space behind.

EXEC (O)

The growing nearness and enormous size of the Cloud

also reflected on the Tactical Grid, somehow more

awesome by this schematic view. The Captain gestures

the order to "FIRE."

The BRILLIANT PHOTON BLOBS of the torpedoes spurt from

the tubes.

A deadly PHOTON TORPEDO pattern racing away from the

Klingon and toward the Luminescent glow in the distance.

Three torpedoes are heading directly toward the Cloud.

Suddenly they glow briefly and disappear long before

they reach their intended target.

incredulous that their torpedoes have disappeared

without a trace.

as the second and third ships launch torpedoes toward

the color-flaring surface of the cloud. This time we

have an outside, real VIEW of the torpedoes glowing

brightly and then disappearing with no effect.

The Klingon crew grim, desperate, watching a BRIGHT

STACCATO BLIP OF POWER from within the LUMINESCENCE.

Out of the LUMINESCENCE hurtles a FRIGHTENING WHIPLASH

OF ENERGY. It bears down on the Klingon Patrol, now

in an evasive maneuver. Then the WHIPLASH BOLT hits

the third cruiser in a writhing flare of energy which

totally engulfs the vessel.

The other two ships veer off, warping around again into

attack position. The THIRD SHIP has begun to implode

in on itself, the matter-energy of its existence

drained by the WHIPLASH BOLT that HOLDS IT.

desperately defending themselves, FORCE FIELDS FULL UP,

RAPIDLY FIRING PHOTON TORPEDOES. But now a SECOND

WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT has emerged from the cloud and

hits the second vessel, DESTROYING it.

The THIRD WHIPLASH BOLT glances off the surviving

Cruiser as the ship retreats in a wide, evasive turn,

FIRING from stern tubes.

The bridge shattered; Klingon bodies. The mortally-

wounded Captain is transmitting urgently:

Serenity here. A barren, rocky small plantoid softly

lit by the myriad stars. This is a small Starfleet

outpost, antennae sprouting everywhere. Tiny figures

(WORKERS) servicing one antenna illustrate the size

of the installation.

SHOWING the battle scene, and the VOICE OF THE KLINGON

CAPTAIN in his last stand against the Object; his VOICE

is weary, almost mechanical. On the adjacent viewer,

an English printout of the Klingon's words chatters

along the bottom of the picture:

At the viewers are a FEMALE LIEUTENANT and FOUR TECH-

NICIANS. COMMANDER BRANCH, a young, alert, enters hur-

riedly, scans he console.

A violent EXPLOSION inside the Klingon bridge -- Klingon

Captain's body is thrown violently against the bulkhead.

showing EXTERIOR of the Klingon vessel: a final,

frightening WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT strikes it -- then

the same awesome IMPLOSION INTO FIREBALL.

The Starfleet station onlookers react to the utter

annihilation of the huge cruiser. And now, past where

the cruiser just disappeared -- the mysterious LUMINES-

CENCE approaching in distance. Technician hits a

switch, magnifying the strange CLOUD.

as its focal point shifts to the huge elliptically-

shaped LUMINESCENCE racing across the sky. MUSIC

(V'GER THEME) COMMENCES in a low, unresolved CHORD

that remains in the background through the remainder

of this scene, and the beginning of the next one.

Ominously now the LUMINESCENCE increases in size, and

begins to fill the viewer. HOLD A MOMENT, and then:

with the CAMERA MOVING THROUGH masses of thick, steamy

vaporous clouds, swirling about, rising boilingly up

from some unseen, underground source. The CAMERA

CONTINUES MOVING through clouds.

And then... the Vulcan landscape. Harsh, strange

angular peaks and rock formations -- the barren, legend-

ary mountain home of Vulcan Masters.

Spock's lean features instantly recognizable despite

unkempt, longer hair and the fatigue born of a long,

harsh discipline he has undergone. His robes, tattered

and dust covered, are that of a Vulcan Aspirant in

study with the Masters. Under the V'ger THEME MUSIC

we HEAR a VOICE in ritual tones:

In b.g., gigantic ancient Vulcan statues and ruins. In f.g.,

the stone platform on which Spock stands facing a semi-circle

of three similar platforms. On them in regal robes are three

VULCAN MASTERS. The Master in the center is a female, the

other two Masters are male. The elderly female is holding a

cord and ancient pendant as if ready to place it around

Spock's neck at an appropriate moment. Spock is staring up

as V'ger THEME MUSIC fades.

Spock turns, giving a small contrite nod -- the ritual

continues.

Spock starts to kneel... the Female Master moves in,

intending to put the ancient pendant around his neck.

But Spock now hesitates -- he's troubled as though

uncertain he deserves this symbol and waves the

pendant away. Then, a faint reprise of the V'ger THEME

MUSIC now causes the Female Master to look skyward.

She turns from this back to Spock as she exchanges a

look with the Male Masters.

She kneels with Spock -- lays her hands on his temples

in Vulcan mind-meld position.

Their eyes close -- their minds meld -- then her head

jerks slightly, her features change as her mind feels

Spock's reactions to the V'ger consciousness. A long

moment, then she opens her eyes, gets to her feet and

looks down on the still kneeling Spock. Then, she

casts aside the pendant she carries -- it falls into

the dust.

The three Masters leave -- Spock watches them go, his

disappointment evident even in his stoic features.

CAMERA CLOSES IN on his face as we again HEAR a frag-

ment of V'ger THEME MUSIC -- Spock again raises his

head and peers up into the heavens. HOLD on his face

a moment, then...

gleaming silver in the sun as it streaks TOWARD THE

CAMERA POSITION and hurtles PAST.

DAY (M)

From this vantage, we can SEE all of twenty-third

century San Francisco stretched out before us. In

the b.g., the familiar forms of the carefully preserved

Golden Gate Bridge and Transamerica Pyramid Building

serve as our only reminders that this is, indeed, San

Francisco.

The AIR TRAM (an anti-gravitational train flying

several feet above the ground) DECELERATES sharply,

settles to the ground with a whisper.

The doors opening, and various TRAVELERS (civilians

and Starfleet personnel) leaving the tram, striding

onto the platform, continuing on their respective

ways. Among the departing throng:

in Admiral's uniform, grim, determined, moving through

the throng. Now and then Starfleet officers nod re-

spectfully; KIRK responds with detached formality; his

mind is clearly set on something he is resolved to ac-

complish here in headquarters -- whatever the cost.

CAMERA WITH HIM, to:

as Kirk strides into the graceful Starfleet HQ building.

Many PEOPLE are about, civilians and uniformed person-

nel; most of them with some air of urgency. (NOTE:

ALIENS interspersed among them, Vulcans, blue-skinned

Andorians, high-domed Vegans, ect.) Kirk continues on

when suddenly he reacts, annoyed as he sees:

a Vulcan, Lt Commander; short, white-haired, grizzled,

hurrying along. Kirk calls to him:

SONAK turns with Vulcan imperturbability to face Kirk

who steps toward him

And Kirk turns, strides purposefully away. Sonak gazes

after him, one eyebrow raised quizzically.

In f.g., Orbital drydock offices, rotating slowly but

perceptibly against blue-black of space. Small figures

in spacesuits working on construction, with work belts.

Beyond and below... Earth. In the far distance we can

barely make out an orbital drydock.

The cluster is a fully-equipped dockyard engineering

center and computer drafting office.

CAMERA MOVES IN AND CENTERS ON an outer "Travel Pod."

an installation which also includes a double position

transporter, in which we SEE the TRANSPORTER EFFECT

BEGIN. With the TRANSPORTER CREW IS SCOTT. He's with

a Technician, busy with a piece of complex circuitry.

Then he turns, sees that it is Kirk BEAMING in here.

As Kirk materializes, steps off the transporter plat-

form, Scott moves quickly to him.

The starship Engineering Officer clearly surprised to

see Kirk here. Kirk has the same look of grim de-

termination we just saw in the headquarters building.

Scott is now eying Kirk just a little warily as he fol-

lows him into the pod. Kirk's determined expression

suggests that some chips are going to fly and Scott

does not want to become one of them.

Kirk hits a button on the travel pod panel -- the air-

lock doors SLAM closed behind them. Then, stepping im-

mediately to the front observation window:

Scott throws Kirk an appalled look but is now occupied

in sealing the Outer Pod door and manipulating drive

controls.

CAMERA CONTINUES TO PULL BACK TO REVEAL front of the

Pod and arms of the office complex as Pod disconnects

and starts to move.

CAMERA CONTINUES TO PULL BACK TO REVEAL front of the

pod and arms of the office complex as Pod disconnects

and starts moving.

SEE the jet flames of its tiny thrusters as it cir-

cles around, heads off (toward the distant Orbital

dry dock).

Scott nervously eying Kirk, and finally deciding to

make one more effort:

It takes Scott a moment to comprehend, and Kirk smiles

now, nods:

Scott peers at him, genuinely surprised -- and pleased.

Then:

And he clasps Kirk's elbow affectionately, then gestures

Kirk to look out the pod window.

as he looks out: the blue-black of orbital space.

Scott is well aware of what the Enterprise means to

Kirk. As Scott maneuvers the pod to provide the best

perspective, Kirk peers through the observation window,

craning his head, hungry for his first glimpse of the

starship. Scott is watching him, immensely pleased.

as we SEE the drydock and more of its detail, and a

hint of what is inside.

PAST Kirk and Scott the corner of the drydock becomes

larger -- we begin SEEING more of it. And then the

merest glimpse of what is inside the drydock: The

Enterprise slips INTO VIEW.

as he watches, his face reflecting all of it: the awe,

the wonder, the romance, the obsession. The one comp-

lete love of his life. And with that love regained,

he is becoming more fully alive again.

Kirk looks at Scott; for a moment both hold each other's

eye. Scott knows precisely how Kirk feels. Both turn

to the window again.

Now DOMINATING the SCREEN -- the awesome, symmetrical

bulk of the starship comes fully INTO VIEW. And it

dominates Kirk's -- and our emotions.

The great ship dwarfs everything. The drydock becomes

a fragile filigree framing the ship's great curved

bulk. The tiny pod continues to move along it.

Small automated welding devices move along the gird-

ers, working with brief, bright orange-white flares.

In other areas of metal lace structure, supplies and

equipment are being loaded onto the ship. The pod

continues moving (Scott is giving Kirk time to see all),

watched carefully by the TINY FIGURES OF SUPERVISING

TECHNICIANS on the drydock. Now the pod moves toward

mating position. It closes in, secures itself to the

outer airlock.

Scott completing the mating procedure, Kirk turning

from the observation window. Outside, the metallic..

CLICK of the pod locking onto the airlock. Now the

"WHOOSH" of the latch doors securing, the CLANG of

security bolts. It's all been a rare and delicious

moment for Kirk, and his face shows it.

OVER the POD INTERCOM we HEAR, "Pod secured. Pressure

equalized." Scott moves the control to open the hatch.

A confusion of organized work and VOICES. The cargo

deck bustles with activity; supplies and equipment

being stored and installed.

Kirk and Scott are met by a nervous, perspiring

ENSIGN.

Kirk gestures him to leave, and Scott hurries away.

Kirk stands a moment, gazing down at the cargo deck.

The crew maneuvering antigravity devices which move

heavy containers -- scrambles of activity at storage

holds and maintenance lockers.

Kirk is drinking it all in. He's home.

And Kirk moves off, leaving the Ensign gazing at him,

relieved.

Kirk ENTERS ANGLE and the doors snap open.

as Kirk enters. The doors close. Kirk waits a beat,

savoring this moment too. Then, firmly to the control

panel:

The turbo-elevator HUMS WITH POWER as it begins hur-

tling up. On the wall back of Kirk we SEE an electronic

diagram of the Enterprise tracking the elevator's

speedy trip to the Bridge.

A confusion of activity and VOICES. Pieces o equip-

ment in a state of disarray: consoles open, fiber

optic tubes unconnected, viewing screens dismantled.

It's a frantic, desperate scene -- a ship and crew to-

tally unprepared. In the midst of this: ALIEN

ensign is assisting UHURA (Lt. Comdr. stripes)deftly

working her communications station, AD LIBBING

"... Hailing frequency four, check. Hailing frequency

five, will someone please check me?" At the helm,

sweat-soaked SULU (Lt. Comdr stripes) has a service

plate open, is peering inside to make delicate adjust-

ments, AD LIBBING "... Helm, now give me a reading on

four point zero zero six of full." And at the Weapons

Control, CHEKOV (Full Lt.)argues with TECHNICIANS who

insist photon torpedoes read "ready" while Chekov

argues the computer is not relaying that information.

snapping open -- and there is Kirk. For the moment no

one notices him, and he stands watching, remembering.

And then he moves forward toward the command center.

as she is the first to see him. She reacts,pleased.

as everyone else is suddenly aware of Kirk.

All work stops, with various AD LIBBED greetings from

the old crew: "Admiral Kirk..." "It's the Captain...!"

etc., etc. But most sit or stand, simple gaping at

Kirk, all quite awed. The old hands, Uhura, Sulu, and

Chekov start converging on Kirk. But he gestures them

back, speaking crisply.

Kirk reacts with some exasperation, starts away,

addresses Chekov:

And Kirk moves to the elevator, enters, is gone. The

moment the elevator doors snap closed:

The entire complex a beehive of pre-departure activity.

ENGINEERING PERSONNEL (at least a third of them female)

coming and going, the platform-elevators (small, one-

man lifts to various levels) busy. A gentle but con-

stant HUM and WHIRR flows from the engine core, to indi-

cate a pre-idling mode. There will be continual AD

LIBBED conversation among the Technicians.

Now the Engine Room door opens and Kirk steps into the

area. He stands a moment observing the activity. a

grizzled ENGINEERING CHIEF pushes a huge condenser on

an anti-grav device past irk with a respectful "watch

it, sir" admonishment. Kirk moves on to:

at the middle of the power shaft. Very NOISY here,

and a continual CACOPHONY of COMPUTERIZED AND HUMAN

VOICES calling off equipment checks. And grouped

around a section of burnt-out circuitry are WILLARD

DECKER, Captain's stripes, handsome, in his early

30's; Scott, and two Technicians. Decker and Scott

are working feverishly uncoupling the device,

probing its innards. Decker has discovered the problem,

removed several transistor-type parts, taps them

with a pencil-sized sonic analyzer.

as the Technician prepares to install the device,

Scott glances up to see Kirk.

He looks from Decker to Kirk in acute embarrassment

(so that we should realize Scott hasn't mentioned

Kirk's taking over to Decker). Decker now notices

Kirk, reacts pleased.

He indicates corner. Decker glances bemusedly at

Kirk, then turns to Scott:

as Scott AD LIBS a glum "Aye, sir," and watches them

walk across the Chamber.

just a little quieter here, with Kirk and Decker arriv-

ing, and Decker saying blithely:

Kirk eyes Decker -- then decides the best way to say

it is plainly, directly.

Decker seems shocked into silence; he can only peer

at Kirk who reaches tentatively as though to clasp a

paternal hand on Decker's shoulder, then withdraws it

and continues quickly.

ROOM)

Scott, working on the relay, but continually glancing

at Kirk and Decker with worried concern, as Kirk

replies:

Kirk is silent a moment, peering levelly at Decker,

who returns the gaze with equal intensity. Then:

Decker EXITS. Kirk waits, collecting his composure

as he watches him go. Then Kirk turns to glare at

Scott. Interrupted by a flare as something shorts

out at the mechanism where Scott and Decker had been

working. Technician (Clearly) reacts, hits an inter-

com button fast:

Scott whirls to a console fast, speaks urgently!

Kirk is exiting on a run, followed by Scott.

(O)

An unusually defective looking TRANSPORTER EFFECT in

progress, alternately flashing and glowing -- even the

Transporter SOUND seems wrong, as if struggling to

overcome some problem. At the console, CHIEF RAND and

ASSISTANT are reacting in surprised, near-horror as

they attempt vainly to save the situation.

Suddenly, from Rand's console,a VIOLENT GLARE -- a

PROTESTING SOUND from the circuitry. And on the con-

sole a red-warning light now begins flashing.

Rand reacts in real horror now as human forms begin to

FAINTLY MATERIALIZE, then FADE AWAY, then REAPPEAR IN

FAINTLY MISSHAPEN FORM as she frantically works con-

trols. Kirk ENTERS fast, steps to the console to

assist Rand; Scott has also come in and moves to the

console, brushes aside the Asst. Chief, and begins

manipulating the additional controls himself.

with the human forms FLUTTERING INTO FULLER AND FULLER

MATERIALIZATION, FRIGHTENINGLY, HORRIBLY MISSHAPEN. We

RECOGNIZE one form as the Vulcan, Sonak -- the other a

human WOMAN. They MATERIALIZE; we HEAR A MOAN form

from the Vulcan -- the Woman's SCREAM OF PAIN. Then,

all at once, the half-materialized bodies are gone;

the transporter chamber is empty.

gazing, horrified, at the empty chamber.

A mutter of utter, vacant silence -- and Kirk and

Scott look at each other again, their pained faces

presaging the answer they already know:

Another moment of stunned silence, and then Kirk hits

the transmission button -- fighting to control his

voice as:

And before Rand can answer, Kirk leaves the room.

as Kirk steps out, and the doors snap closed behind

him. In the corridor the furor of the hurried depar-

ture is, as everywhere, quite evident: CREW MEMBERS

move back and forth. But Kirk does not see them; his

mind is tormented by the transporter accident -- was

there something he should have done, could have done,

to prevent it? Should he launch on schedule with the

starship this unready? Has he done right in yielding

to this terrible needs for starship command again,

forcing Starfleet to give her to him? Would Decker's

knowledge of the new design have prevented the acci-

dent?

Kirk reaches a corridor intersection, looks around,

realizes he's lost track of where he is. A passing

YEOMAN stops in response to his puzzled expression.

She's indicating back the direction from which Kirk

came. He nods his thanks, turns and moves back down

the corridor.

hurrying down the corridor. The two face each other

a silent moment, Decker studying Kirk curiously.

(AS SEEN ON VIEWER) (O)

(in the last part of the scene which showed the Klingon

Captain speaking in Klingonese and an English print-

out interpretation appearing at the screen bottom.

The Klingon ship nearly totaled; one engine nacelle

gone, smoke and flame spewing from the other, etc.

And then that final WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT STRIKING AND

SPECTACULARLY DESTROYING THE SHIP, etc.)

But this time, O.S., we HEAR GASPS of incredulity from

many throats (an audience), and various AD LIBBED com-

ments: "My God...!" "I don't believe it...!" "What

could it be...?" Etc., etc.

And then, immediately following this, on the viewer:

(as in earlier Epsilon 9 viewer -- but with no music,

only more AD LIBBED exclamations from an audience.)

The viewer goes blank.

We SEE that all this was being viewed by the CREW

MEMBERS (Aliens included) assembled on the Rec Deck.

The Recreation Deck is one of the largest areas on

the ship, several deck levels high, a part of one

wall consisting of picture windows, through which can

be seen sections of the drydock structure outside.

On another wall is a large viewer, on which was just

shown the Klingon transmission. Leading off and away

from this deck area are what are obviously other

specific recreation areas -- gymnasiums, food centers,

game rooms, lounges, etc.

as the Crew Members chat in low, grim tones -- Kirk

(now with Captain's stripes) appears. As he comes

into view, the two hundred or so crew below go silent.

Kirk grimly indicates the now blank viewer:

as the CAMERA FINDS various faces: human, alien; most

young, all intelligent, forthright -- anxious. Kirk

has paused a moment, now continues.

standing near an intercom, which just then has emitted

a bosun's WHISTLE intercom signal.

Kirk leans over to the intercom, speaks into it:

as all eyes turn to the viewer which fades into a view

of Commander Branch, in the Epsilon 9 monitor room.

Branch is tense, reflecting extreme urgency. Near

Branch, working intently at the console are the Female

Lieutenant and a Technician.

Branch hits an alarm button; we HEAR ALARM KLAXON

SOUNDING. The viewer IMAGE DISTORTS, clears again

while Branch -- facing his viewer, continues urgently:

as the image of Branch is immediately replaced by an

external view of the plantoid, and the LUMINESCENT

CLOUD (at about the same distance from which the

Klingon cruisers were attacked).

Then it STRIKES the plantoid WITH FULL, CATACLYSMIC

FORCE. The viewer IMAGE BREAKS UP -- and immediately

the entire Starfleet base becomes a maelstrom of FLAR-

ING ENERGY, shattered structure, flying debris. And

then, all at once, there is nothing -- empty space,

Epsilon 9 is gone. We SEE only the stars; and the

mysterious LUMINESCENT CLOUD moving across the distant

sky.

(NOTE: The above is entirely SILENT, and when it is

finished, not a word is spoken.)

as the viewer goes blank, all still facing the screen.

Then Kirk turns to the room as if to comment. Then he

stops -- nothing he can say will add at all to what

they've just seen. Instead:

The scene they have just witnessed still vivid in their

minds as they gaze somberly up toward Kirk who is exit-

ing. The bridge crew follows him out. Not a word is

said as the remainder of the crew waits another moment,

then begins to disperse toward their duty stations too.

Spectacular ORBIT VIEW of the giant starship in the

process of release. BEYOND US, in half light, EARTH

LOOMS HUGE. The dock welders are gone; the supply pods

float away from the ship. Little tongues of blue flame

spurt from the ship's maneuvering jets.

as the large dock umbilical is released, floats free of

its starship attachment. Dock departure is imminent.

Kirk in the center seat, intently studying the Naviga-

tion console in front of him (at the Navigator's

station, which is unoccupied.) Other bridge personnel

are busy with their pre-launch duties.

as Decker (now wearing Commander stripes) reacts,

almost startled, and Uhura continues:

Uhura's tone and expression convey "Deltan" in a

certain, special manner.

The last is interrupted by:

as they snap open, and there emerges a breathtakingly

beautiful young woman (uniformed as a Navigator Lieu-

tenant) who strides purposefully onto the bridge. A

stunning figure, but hairless, entirely bald but or

delicate eyebrows and eyelashes. Her bald head is not

at all unattractive, in fact exudes an aura of sensual

nudity. Indeed, her whole being exudes sensuality.

(This is a racial characteristic, not a deliberate

presence.) She approaches Kirk

(NOTE: Throughout this sequence, Sulu eyes ILIA with

unrestrained admiration.)

as Ilia starts to speak, suddenly stops: she has just

then noticed Decker, who has stepped from his station

to face her. For an electronic moment their eyes meet,

hold in unquestioned recognition.

Kirk has observed this with surprise and some concern

(it presages possible complications). Decker turns to

Kirk, slightly uncomfortable at this.

Ilia looks from Kirk back to Decker, puzzled at his

sleeve stripes.

Kirk flashes a hard glance at Decker, then toward

Ilia too.

While respectful, her tone of voice has been just as

firm as Kirk's.

receiving a message, now relaying it.

Just as Kirk a moment before was tense, now suddenly

he's relaxed again; he rises.

And he hurries from the bridge, onto the elevator, is

gone. A moment of puzzled silence, then:

Sulu has almost tripped getting out of his chair. He

starts offering Ilia his hand, then thinks better of

it, withdraws it abruptly, immediately busies himself

punching out equations on her console... AD LIBS,

"It's all on the computer. You'll have no problem..."

Sulu is nervous, fluttery around this lovely creature --

now hits a wrong switch. Produces a BEEPING SOUND which

he fumbles to shut off. She smiles; speaks quietly,

repeats:

Sulu catches her eye but before he can reply, Decker has

moved in beside Ilia.

Clearly, the remark carries special, personal

significance.

Kirk entering as Rand and her assistant electronically

list the last of the five arrivals who are leaving the

Transporter Chamber. Kirk calls through intercom to

the last arrival, a young female Yeoman.

A moment, then again the GENERATING HUMMING, and then

the familiar BEAMING EFFECT. And then you SEE McCOY!

He fully MATERIALIZES. He looks himself over as if in

pleased surprise he is still in one piece. CAMERA PANS

McCoy from the Transporter Chamber to Kirk who is hav-

ing a hard time containing his amusement and delight.

Kirk has offered his hand, but McCoy is already flaring:

Kirk extends his hand again; McCoy delays some moments

-- then finally responds. And once done, it is the long

hand clasp of two old friends reunited despite their

differences. Now McCoy turns to Rand.

And McCoy moves toward the door, grumbling:

Even when he's in the corridor his grumbling trails

after him.

as he gazes fondly after the grumbling McCoy, and now

turns to the intercom, flips it on:

Bulkheads closing, feed lines disengaging, main

ENGINES HUM into life, crew personnel hurrying to

launch stations. SHOTS of cargo deck, down to

Engineering Section slamming shut. Drydock area

clearing, work lights go out, warning lights go on.

All flight positions manned, ready.

The starship within the drydock, but now the maneuver-

ing -- thrusters spurt pinpoints of BLUE-LAME. The

drydock is ready for the starship's departure -- not

a single pod or shuttlecraft in sight. The starship

looms majestically within the lacework girders.

as Kirk hesitates just an instant, seems to hold his

breath. Then:

The maneuvering -- thrusters spurt more BLUE FLAME.

The Enterprise begins moving, DOMINATING SCREEN as

it moves majestically from the drydock.

THEME MUSIC IN AND UP.

emphasizing fine detail reality of both drydock and

starship as saucer section emerges. Tiny space-

suited human figures watch the departing ship.

CAMERA HOLDS ON STARSHIP until completely clear

of the orbital dock.

Here in Engineering Section, the ENGINE THROBBING

SLOWLY BUILDS to a THUNDERING SOUND. A glow from

the central unit indicates anti-matter intermix

underway. The Engineering Section shudders as the

great engines draw more and more power.

as he hesitates just an instant. This is the moment

he's awaited, and to him it is equally as sensuous

and gratifying as making love -- which, perhaps, he

is -- to his mistress: The Enterprise.

The maneuvering jets turn off, the impulse drive glows.

The Enterprise begins moving perceptibly faster --

behind her, the drydock diminishing rapidly in size.

We SEE viewer IMAGE SWITCH to a departing view of

lovely bluish, cloud-laced image of Earth as it grows

smaller, smaller, dwindling quickly as the starship

gathers speed.

And viewer IMAGE SWITCHED to show the star patterned

space ahead.

with its colorful rings and multiple moons FILLING a

major portion of the FRAME.

All hands tense with the excitement of the journey,

on the viewer Saturn -- and its rings -- are falling

away (BEHIND US). OVER this:

End of log.

punching in equations on his console, reaching a

reading:

Checking her console.

And Decker and Ilia glance at each other -- and again,

you know there is something more than casual in this.

as they open, and McCoy appears, walks over to Kirk

who swings his chair around to face him. McCoy is

his usual dour self.

Kirk starts to swing his chair to normal position --

Decker calls:

McCoy is watching Kirk, a bit surprised at his abrupt-

ness to Decker.

Kirk flashes McCoy a glance of annoyance -- then back

to using intercom:

The main intermix chambers GLOWING with power; the LOW

RUMBLE of the main engines coming to life.

The CAMERA FINDS Scott in the chamber:

He steps to his console where an ASST. ENGINEER is

working a computer, studying the readouts, punching

buttons, etc. Scott stands over him, grimly observ-

ing. Finally, the Asst. simply shrugs with frustration.

as Kirk, annoyed, interrupts Scott on the intercom.

McCoy still watches curiously as Kirk turns to the

helm:

Sulu moves his controls forward -- everyone waits

tensely -- and then we HEAR THE INCREASING THROB OF

THE ACCELERATING ENGINES.

We SEE the WARP POWER EFFECT build up between the en-

gine "nacelles" -- then the starship makes the QUANTUM

LEAP into warp drive. The stars ahead shift, streak,

colors pulsating and changing as the shift exceeds the

wave lengths of the light spectrum -- and the stars

congeal into a MASS ahead.

as the viewer shows the same WARP DRIVE EFFECT. or

another moment all remain tense, and then all at once

relax, release their breaths. Smiles.

Kirk smiles, pleased, starts swinging his chair around,

at the same time calling:

Kirk never finishes the word. At that instant, on the

viewer, a WORMHOLE DISTORTION: a sudden SPIRALING OF

STARS AND FLUID LIGHT narrowing into a VORTEX into

which the Enterprise hurtles. A space trap, a deadly

pandemonium of ALARM KLAXONS, BELLS, VOICES:

Enterprise has been caught in a matter-time distortion,

sucked into a cylindrical "hole in space" (the Worm-

hole distortion), stars and planets become strange,

elongated shapes, with the Enterprise drawn deeper

and deeper into the vortex.

The KLAXONS and BELLS CONTINUE, and the crew responding:

(Note: Computer alert continues through entire scene.)

showing (a magnification view) of a tiny point of light

directly ahead. Meanwhile, Kirk shouts an AD LIBBED

order to Sulu: "Go to Manual override!" Sulu AD LIBS,

"No manual response...!" (Through all this, McCoy

stands frozen, waiting -- and expecting -- the worse.)

Meanwhile, Ilia has reached over to Sulu's console,

hits a button, AD LIBBING, "Navigational deflectors

coming up...!" And then with alarmed dismay:

The picture is switched through two further levels of

magnification, enlarging the object: an elongated,

distorted, pitted asteroid, tumbling toward the Enter-

prise on a collision course.

who has just glanced, surprised at Decker (for counter-

manding the phaser order) -- and for a split instant,

Kirk seems confused. McCoy reacts with enlightenment

as, meanwhile:

The object even larger.

as the starship's photon torpedo tubes EJECT GLOWING

BALLS OF LIGHT ENERGY, which seems to float toward the

oncoming asteroid, almost too slowly. And in these

brief seconds, the asteroid hurtles at the Enterprise,

the huge pitted rock growing even larger than the ship

itself. It FILLS THE SCREEN, as the photon torpedoes

hit, disintegrating the asteroid into thousands of

fragments. Instantly, these fragments pulverize them-

selves on the ship's forward forcefield and deflector

screens. The smaller pieces burn up on impact, clearly

outlining the ship's forcefield barriers.

The asteroid fragments still smashing into the force

field screen; the smaller bits like SPARKLERS as im-

pact heat consumes them. The larger sections bouncing

away, the bridge QUIVERING as they hit.

Then one final gigantic fragment strikes, the bridge

SHUDDERS. And then the viewer shows only the normal

SUB-WARP EFFECT: The stars ahead, relatively station-

ary; a feeling of motion, but smooth, visually normal.

with Scott and his crew pouring over the instruments --

all seem very grim. Scott, quite preoccupied, now

speaks into the intercom.

Kirk seeming to collect his thoughts now -- he gives

Decker a look, uses the intercom himself:

as Kirk flips off the intercom, rises determinedly,

faces Decker:

Kirk gives McCoy an annoyed look, then strides to the

elevator. Decker, grim, follows -- McCoy brings up

the rear as they EXIT.

gazing worriedly at the just-closed elevator doors,

as Sulu is punching figures into his console.

Ilia's attention is directed toward Decker.

And she punches in some equations, then again peers

up at the doors where she last saw Decker. She is

very concerned.

The doors opening, Kirk entering, McCoy moves to b.g.

while Decker stands attentively, waiting as Kirk

turns to him.

Kirk is surprised by this information, perhaps slight-

ly chagrined. After a beat:

Kirk reacts with anger. Struggles for and regains

control.

Kirk peers at Decker, who stands facing him

determinedly.

Kirk's last line has drowned out Decker's "Aye, sir."

McCoy says nothing, waits until Decker is gone and the

door closes behind him. Then:

Decker moving toward an elevator -- the elevator doors

open, and there is Ilia. She steps out, faces him.

Ilia whirls, moves toward her stateroom door, which

snaps open, then closes behind her. Decker stands

gazing at the door, remembering, regretful.

Kirk's expression hardens.

Kirk studies him a beat; has McCoy touched a nerve?

Something Kirk himself might have been unaware of?

Kirk starts speaking, but is interrupted by:

as Kirk turns to it.

At his VOICE COMMAND, the viewer comes on with AN IMAGE

of Uhura at her console.

On the viewer, Chekov's IMAGE replaces Uhura.

Viewer IMAGE FADES. Kirk turns back to McCoy whose

question of Kirk's fitness still hangs there between

them. Eye to eye - then, finally:

Kirk nods, exits. McCoy watches him go, hoping his

point has gotten through.

traveling at a rapid speed; it carries warp-capacity

nacelles which dwarf the smaller  to 10 position

shuttle fuselage. The CAMERA HOLD ON THE SHUTTLE

as it overtakes the Enterprise, the ENTERPRISE COM-

ING INTO VIEW, and the shuttle slowing and beginning

to move between the starship's giant nacelles.

THE ENTERPRISE AND THE SHUTTLE (S)

About the size of a fighter airplane floating in over

the vastness of an aircraft carrier. The shuttle

slows further, hovering now. Then its fuselage pod

detaches from the warp drive nacelles -- the pod

moving slowly but precisely toward the starship's

command airlock.

as we HEAR the CLANK and WHOOSH of the AIRLOCK MECHAN-

ISM. Chekov is standing by  with a security man.

A moment later the hatch slips open - TO REVEAL

Spock. A proud Spock, impassively Vulcan, almost

contemptuously aloof. His hair is now trimmed in

neat Vulcan style; he wears Vulcan attire simple,

civilian, utilitarian.)

Spock is already moving out of the pod entry area, im-

passive, no greeting on his lips; no friendship in his

expression.

pulling away from Enterprise.

The elevator doors open, and there is Spock. It takes

everyone a moment to believe their eyes. Then, the

Bridge crew AD LIB their surprise and pleasure.

Kirk, smiling, is moving toward Spock with hand out-

stretched. But Spock has already turned and moved

toward the science console where Decker sits.

It takes Decker a moment to realize that Spock wants

to take over the console. He begins getting to his

feet, throwing Kirk a look. But Kirk's attention is

totally on SPOCK. And Spock is already intent on com-

putations he is beginning to punch into the science

console computer.

Spock continues to punch information into the science

computer -- a monitor screen IMAGE begins to show com-

plex equations which Spock inspects -- he makes a

further computer punch out and inspects a second  monitor

IMAGE of other equations. Only then does Spock seem to

become aware of Kirk and Decker standing there with

questioning expressions.

Kirk starts to grin -- then remembers to wipe it off

his face as he turns to Decker.

as they SNAP open --

sees Spock at the science console -- she moves in

quickly, overjoyed. Even McCoy seems pleased.

But as Chapel crosses to Spock, her pleased smile

brightening her whole face, Spock turns, dismisses her

presence with a cold disinterested glance -- Chapel

stops, stands dumbfounded. Spock gives McCoy a similar

glance - turns back to his console readings as:

The same cold glance causes Uhura to stop in mid-

sentence. Several grins directed toward Spock are now

fading from bridge crew faces. Spock has turned back

again for a last quick reading at the console and now

stands -- totally ignoring everyone else as he speaks

coolly, unemotionally to Kirk:

Kirk manages a nod, a bit dumbfounded himself at Spock's

strange manner. Spock heads for the elevator -- puz-

zled expressions from the entire bridge crew. Then

Kirk calls after him, very sincerely:

Spock continues onto the elevator without any acknow-

ledgment, leaves. Kirk glances, perplexed, at McCoy.

McCoy, equally perplexed, shrugs.

traveling past the stars, sub-warp. OVER this:

Scott making an intermix chamber reading with a hand-

held timer-temperature device which emits SIGNALS while

Spock

adjustments in the circuitry of a panel complex. Dur-

ing the following, they will react as if they've solved

the engine problem.

Sulu at the helm, accelerating; just a touch of tense-

ness in crew as they move toward the speed which

earlier threw them into the "wormhole" effect.

Stars accelerating as Sulu calls off:

The viewer shows the QUANTUM LEAP into warp drive. The

stars ahead shift, streak and congeal into WARP EFFECT

MASS.

The others wait, then show relief as:

He continues to seven.

Where, first, CAMERA SHOOTS THROUGH THE WINDOW, the

myriad of stars, space, the whole magnificent vista.

In the lounge, empty but for them, are Kirk and McCoy

-- obviously awaiting Spock, who ENTERS and presents

himself cold and aloof as before:

Spock remains standing, addresses Kirk:

For an instant, it looks like Spock will refuse. Then,

he complies but sits formally, rigidly. He ignores

McCoy totally.

Kirk is clearly disappointed -- and a bit uncomfortable

about what he must ask next. He exchanges a glance

with McCoy, then:

Although Spock has been almost infuriatingly emotionless,

his expression shifts slightly. McCoy indicates this:

Spock looks straight ahead -- his face instantly com-

posed to almost total blankness.

Spock has come to his feet fast - but Kirk is on his

feet too, confronting him. During which:

Spock EXITS. Kirk and McCoy exchange a troubled look,

then EXIT too as CAMERA CENTERS AGAIN ON OBSERVATION

WINDOW, the view of space there.

pushing

begin FLASHING.

All regulars in position (different uniforms), extra

CREW hurrying in from elevators to man the remainder

of the console positions. Decker is making a bridge

circuit.

Sulu hits a control -- viewer seems to ZOOM AHEAD and

in the distance we SEE a point of light which grows

into the LUMINESCENT CLOUD. The same as seen by the

Klingons and Starfleet's Epsilon Nine station. Myster-

ious, beautiful, and menacing.

as Kirk whirls toward Spock's station, calls out:

Decker has reacted sharply, disapprovingly, to this:

A moment of thought from Kirk.

The Cloud has now grown so large it DOMINATES THE

ENTIRE VIEWER. Sulu hits a button, reducing magnif-

cation. Immediately, the CLOUD diminishes in size --

but almost instantly begins GROWING AGAIN. Decker's

annoyance (with Kirk) suddenly seems to dissipate as

his total attention is diverted to the cloud.

Decker turning to Spock

Decker trails his words, realizing that Spock isn't

hearing a word. Spock's attention is on the O.S. main

viewer, totally absorbed by something he's feeling.

He is slowly rising from his seat, stepping forward --

Kirk becomes conscious of this, turns and sees Spock's

strange expression. Before he can speak:

Spock shakes his head... then reacts as if sensing or

theorizing something further. He turns, moves quickly

to his console, begins there as if searching for something.

Interrupted by another ALARM KLAXON.

showing a WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT streaking from the

Cloud!

Bridge begins to

The WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT speeds toward the Enterprise,

which veers sharply away now -- but

With the WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT on the main viewer,

closer and closer -- heading straight-on for the Star-

ship. From the Bridge a CACOPHONY OF VOICES AND

SOUNDS, but all organized and disciplined with the

BRIDGE LIGHTING DIMMING and then as though traveling

the last short distance (actually several million

miles) in the wink of an eye -- the WHIPLASH OF ENERGY

STRIKES. The bridge lights

In the sudden darkness, the main viewer is all at once

a frantic, furious, pattern of GREEN-WHITE FLARING ENERGY,

accompanied by an EXPLOSIVE SHRILLING SOUND. It seems to

cling to the forcefields, the incredible energy of the

forcefield barriers.

as a sheet of GREEN WHIPLASH ENERGY bursts from

Chekov's console -- a LASH of FLAME

him as he falls twisting and groaning in pain. Ilia

reacts first, crossing quickly to assist Chekov --

Decker joins her, taking over Chekov's console.

The SHEET OF WRITHING-GREEN ENERGY

too, the forcefield screens and deflectors -- batter-

ing at them, seeking some gap through which to

penetrate.)

The bridge still darkened, and on the viewer the WHIP-

LASH ENERGY splattering the entire viewing screen with

GREEN ENERGY BRILLIANCE, forcing all to shield their

eyes against the impossible glare.

A smoking panel BURSTS INTO A SHOWER OF SPARKS AND

FLAME, spewing over and past Scott and his crew.

as, first on the viewer, the WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT

EFFECT clings another moment then begins FADING. And

then it is gone. The bridge lights

Elevator doors open. Doctor Chapel and Medical Corps-

men arrive and cross immediately to where Ilia tends

to the injured Chekov.

Over the following, we will HEAR Captain Kirk AD LIB

order; "Divert auxiliary systems power to deflectors!"

and SCOTT INTERCOM VOICE answer: "All auxiliary power

to deflectors, sir." Meanwhile, Chapel and Corpsmen

giving medical treatment to Chekov who is in agony.

Chapel is about to give an injection.

The Deltan woman takes Chekov's upper arm in both her

hands, kneading her fingers deep into nerve centers --

Chekov's pain begins to quickly recede and he is almost

startled by the sudden relief. Doctor Chapel, now

spraying plasti-skin on the burned hand and wrist,

gives Ilia a surprised, approving look and a flicker

of female friendship passes between the Deltan and

Earth woman. (setting up a later story point)

The energy brilliance gone now, we can SEE the CLOUD

is

the Aurora effect is spectacular; a vast, dense blan-

ket of SPARKLING, FLARING COLOR.

whirling abruptly in his chair, addressing Kirk:

Immediately, from the SPEAKER we HEAR a SHRILL, IN-

CREDIBLY FAST

Chapel and Corpsman are assisting Chekov from the

bridge (we'll have SEEN that the remarkable

ugly burn marks - he is even able to move his fingers

a bit). Ilia returns to her station -- a relief CREW

WOMAN takes over from Decker at Chekov's console.

so we can SEE in more detail Spock's monitor -- various

oscillating waves, and HEAR more of the SHRILL BEEPS as

Spock manipulates his equipment, and continues:

Decker has hurried in to assist the science console.

Spock indicates a console area -- Decker works there --

Spock works another section of console buttons.

The Cloud ever closer to the ship now, which is a mere

dot in space compared to the immensity of the energy-

seething, continuous color-exploding Cloud. And then,

suddenly, from the Cloud -- ANOTHER WHIPLASH ENERGY

BOLT. Bearing down upon the Enterprise.

where the oncoming WHIPLASH BOLT is SEEN emerging from

the Cloud. In the b.g., ALARM KLAXONS are SOUNDING,

alert lights flashing, etc

Much frenetic activity here, previous damage being

repaired, the main shaft GLOWING BLUE-WHITE, ENGINES

THROBBING AT FULL POWER, and a harassed Scott at the

intercom:

The WHIPLASH BOLT streaking toward the ship.

Spock -- Decker assisting -- works frantically. Spock

is clearly dissatisfied, shakes his head tightly.

as Spock hits the "transmit" button, and we HEAR the

SHRILL BEEP SOUND (lasting but a fraction of a second),

and Decker calls to Kirk:

where the WHIPLASH BOLT is now BRILLIANT, almost upon

us! Then the WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT abruptly VANISHES.

In the blink of an eye, the entire EFFECT IS GONE.

relief, incredulity.

Spock turns, gives the O.S. viewer a glance. Then he

shakes head.

All have reacted to this; Kirk exchanges a look with

Spock who nods firmly. Then Kirk sees that both Decker

and Sulu are throwing him a questioning look. In b.g.

McCoy and Chapel have EXITED bridge with Chekov.

Kirk peers at Spock hoping for some assistance on

the decision; but Spock merely peers back at him ex-

pressionlessly: the decision is Kirk's. Kirk faces

Spock one last beat, then turns and starts back to-

ward his chair, calling to Ilia.

where the IMAGE of the "powerfield Cloud: changes to a

tactical plot of Enterprise's conic flight path ap-

proach. It shows a large schematic of the Cloud itself

as well as a series of FAINTLY BLINKING schematics of

various recent positions and directional attitudes of

the Enterprise during its approach. These blinking

Enterprise schematics show that the starship has  gone

from a head-on approach to the Cloud into a (tech.

advice) skidding movement around the Cloud (the star-

ship always heading directly toward Cloud center),

with the last Enterprise positions now showing it ap-

roaching the Cloud from a quartering rear approach.

Decker glances around, moves close to Kirk so only

Spock is able to overhear:

Kirk looks at him, then at Spock, who once more is

peering in momentary concentration at the viewer,

feels Kirk's gaze -- and turns to him, again expres-

sionlessly; it's up to Kirk.

Main viewer IMAGE reverts to the "powerful cloud."

All peer in grim fascination at the cloud another

moment. Then:

decision is his. He looks to the Viewer a moment, then:

as the Enterprise slowly enters deeper toward the chamber

ahead. We SEE the sheer size of the Cloud as opposed to

that of the small ship now entering unknown territory.

As the Enterprise enters the Cloud:

On Viwscreen we SEE a vast array of IMAGES, spiralling

IMAGES, changing in size, shape, colour. Its walls

spinning and turning, looping and twisting, as the

Enterprise proceeds further Into the Cloud.

Amazed bridge crew members can do nothing but awe at

the sight before thier eye's. Even Spock has turned to

view the sight now illuminating the View screen. Kirk

sits pondering, amazed, thinking "What comes next?"

Moving slowly through the maze of VISUAL'S seen from

the Main Viewer.

as the CLOUD OBSCURES all now. Everyone gazes at the

viewer, almost mesmerized by the shifting violet power-

field displays.

Sulu peering toward O.S. main viewer, his eyes wide

with incredulity.

Crew peering at O.S. main viewer with expressions of

near disbelief. Similar reactions as Kirk and Decker

turn too, reacting to:

(V'GER THEME MUSIC UP) The Cloud "Aurora" EFFECT

rapidly thinning -- in the "eye of the hurricane"

center of the Cloud is the object which has stunned

the entire bridge crew.

cent, faintly glowing, suggesting that it is made up

of exotic combinations of matter, and energy far beyond

the scientific knowledge or ability of Earth's 23rd

Century technology. Menacing and yet strangely

beautiful, both at the same time.

The Object continues to GROW RAPIDLY IN SIZE as the

Enterprise continues moving toward it. Everyone is

awed; even Spock, from whom we discern an involuntary,

impressed reaction. Decker is with Spock at the

science console.

All digest the dimensions, as:

opening to admit McCoy and Chekov, whose face and hands

are taut with plastiskin applications. Seeing the

object on the viewer (O.S. at this ANGLE), Chekov's

eyes open with wide astonishment. He crosses quickly

to his weapons--defense station, his eyes on the

viewer. McCoy, eyes also fixed on the sight, moves

to Kirk's side.

(This will be the first time we've seen Spock dislay-

ing a definite reaction, almost an emotion.) So

engrossed is Spock in the main viewer IMAGE that he

appears not to have heard Kirk, whose AD LIBS a sharp

"

instant, then:

Concern reflected on the faces of others too. Kirk

considers his next move.

CAMERA TRAVELING WITH ENTERPRISE as it moves on a

parallel--closing course -- Alien continues to GROW

IN SIZE. Although it already seems an impossibly

large vessel compared to the Enterprise, in reality

they are still tens of thousands of kilometers apart;

Tension high as -- the Alien now appears so close that

its IMAGE MORE THAN FILLS VIEWER. Considerable

tension of bridge -- crew members, throwing nervous

looks from viewer to Kirk. How much closer?!

Very nervous looks now directed toward Kirk. Even

Spock gives him a glance, a raised eyebrow.

The Alien Object appears A DOZEN TIMES LARGER THAN

ENTERRISE and still GROWING IN SIZE.

We begin to SEE Alien exterior detailing which had

not even been suspected at a longer distance.

The Enterprise is now quartering in toward the

Intruder, coming closer and closer. The Alien

vessel is still GROWING IN SIZE -- more and more,

its exterior appears to be made of substances never

before seen by a human eye -- substances considered

possible only in the wildest flights of scientific

theory -- plasma-matter, energy fields diamond--hard

in their power, solid sheets of subatomic particles,

crystalline-lace patterns which seem capable of

shifting their nature and rearranging themselves.

This time, the Enterprise travels on away from us, as

its course takes it angling nearer and nearer the

gigantic Alien Intruder -- the Starship dwindling in

size, growing smaller, smaller, smaller... until it

is a tiny dot compared to the enormity of the Alien

vessel.

We are coming alongside the mid-section of the Alien

vessel, now so huge that only a small section of it

now completely fills main viewer frame.

Kirk's voice is blotted out by a DEAFENING, SHRILL-

ING SOUND, accompanied by a multi-hued point of LIGHT

which EXPLODES into BLINDING INTENSITY, obscuring

everything for an instant. Overlapping this action,

we HEAR:

Continues.

The BLINDING LIGHT FADES and in its lace we SEE a

strange "entity" shocking us with its frightening

appearance and its ugly-sounding THROBBING HUM of

power. It is about seven feet tall and resembles a

"blob" of raw energy in shifting patterns and colors

of deep, ugly hues of upper spectrum violet. Yet,

it looks strangely alive. At the end of the "tendril"

(of light) is an "eye" (a small multi-colored device)

The bridge crew reacting hard, shocked and shaken --

the THROBBING SOUND of the Alien thing intensifies

as it begins to move across the bridge. Suddenly, in

b.g., an elevator door snaps oen and two SECURITY

MEN burst onto the bridge, phasers drawn. Chekov

shouts warningly at the Men:

But Chekov is too late: First Security Man FIRES --

the BLAST harmlessly absorbed by the Probe which emits

a SCREECHING nerve-grating SOUND --- sends out a SMALL

WHIPLASH ENERGY BOLT which instantly envelopes First

Security Man in a PURPLE GLOW (of implosion). Second

Security Man has almost lifted his phaser -- but now

carefully, slowly is moving his hand away from his

weapon.

PURPLE GLOW FADES, the First Security Man has simply

vanished.

Chekov, like the others, horrified, flips a switch

and the COMPUTER-VOICE ("Intruder Alert") goes OFF.

At the same time Chekov speaks into his intercom:

The Probe is sending out snake-like tendrils to the

various consoles on the bridge.

These tendrils lash out in a cobra-strike movement,

the tendril-head seeming to enter

affected -- at which time all monitors and instrument

lights there come ON as if the Probe is "reading"

each console function. The crew carefully stays clear

of the tendrils.

Spock has risen, moving to Kirk's side as he slowly

brings his tricorder up,

its tiny sensor and aiming it at the probe.

Meanwhile, the probe is now hovering near Chekov who

sits frozen, fists clenched, jaw tight.

as the "probe" withdraws an energy-tendril from one

bridge station and "inserts" it into another console.

Kirk's words are never completed as

Where, also immediately, all the console and computer

lights are suddenly flashing wildly, rapidly --

-- There is an incredibly fast EXCHANGE OF HIGH-PITCHED

BEES --

As Decker moves to the main power control, Spock now

steps in, his Vulcan strength easily brushing Kirk and

Decker aside. Spock clasps his fists above his head,

brings it down in a SHATTERING BLOW on the console. It

as the science console shorts itself out -- and off,

Decker confronts Spock:

Kirk has been giving Spock a puzzled look -- Spock now

turns abruptly, and:

as Spock, in stepping back, accidentally brushes the

probe's energy tendril -- a FLASH OF LIGHT at the

contact point sends Spock sinning under the rail and

to the floor near Ilia. The probe's energy-tendril

has withdrawn from the darkened science console, hov-

ers high over the dazed Spock as if angrily seeking

the reason for the break in its computer contact.

Spock starts to rise.

Decker steps toward her, AD LIBBING a grim "

But he has no chance as:

The Probe hovers over her, its whole mass seemingly

about to envelope her with a

and then the entire Probe DISSOLVES IN A BLINDING

FLASH OF WHITE, obscuring Ilia. Almost instantly

the WHITE FLASH FADES --

tricorder clattering to the deck.

helpless, shocked, gazing at the place Ilia was --

but which is now empty.

And almost at the same moment a new BRIDGE ALARM

SIGNAL.

sel, we SEE STRANGE, OPAQUE ENERGY PATTERNS STREAKING

TOWARD US. Kirk vaults to the command chair, lunges

for controls, as Decker races to the weapons-defense

console.

Appropriate ALARM KLAXONS, and COMPUTER VOICES begin

SOUNDING, and all this is lost in a SUDDEN SHRILLING

SOUND (a constant, high-pitched tone). For a moment

the energy patterns are prominent on the viewer --

and then the PATTERNS VANISHED and the SHRILL SOUND

FADES -- and:

showing V'ger GROWING RAPIDLY IN SIZE. The Enterprise

is being

toward its "prow."

in a state of controlled chaos, all personnel at their

stations, the Engine CORE GLOWING. Scott is working

his controls, speaking into the intercom:

as Spock studies his readings, and:

Spock peers in deep concentration at the Main Viewer,

trying to sense some clue. Kirk glances at him another

moment, then turns to the Main Viewer himself, watches

in frustrated helplessness.

the starship being pulled toward the giant as though

on a taut cable. As we MOVE CLOSER, we

as Difalco arrives on the run, and Decker AD LIBS to

her, "

bewildered, wants to ask what happened, but no time,

and she quickly sits at the post, begins orienting

herself. Meanwhile, Decker has begun an Executive

Officer's bridge circuit, assisting with various con-

soles. Kirk is glancing toward Spock who continues

concentrating on the Viewer, striving to comprehend

the myriad of thoughts he is sensing from he Aliens.

McCoy also arrives on the bridge, takes in the chaotic

scene, watches the Viewer grimly.

At the forward end of the giant, an odd-shapped "iris"

begins

obvious that the tractor beam is

showing the unusual "iris" now almost fully open as

Enterprise is drawn closer, closer -- through the

"iris" we now SEE (some of) V'ger's interior: a dark

void relieved only by strange flickering glows of dis-

tant ENERGY FIELD PATTERNS.

The crew reacts with understandable awe, apprehension,

curiosity, as:

Spock replies for Kirk: quickly, as though to make his

point convincingly:

as Kirk reacts somewhat curiously to Spock's remark,

but it is Decker who articulates it:

All face the Viewer again, react, with McCoy who has

been observing all these reactions now galvanized

into action:

And he hurries toward the elevators, CAMERA WITH HIM

a moment, then SWINGING BACK TO:

Kirk staring at the viewer -- the "iris" now fully open

so that the exterior of V'ger is

and all we can SEE is the monstrous void dead ahead,

which is looming faster and larger before our eyes.

And now we are

Enterprise now being pulled

the ship proper. Now we can SEE that the dark void

is actually a vast chamber, dimly and intermittently

lit by POWERFIELDS appearing and vanishing along the

vessel's inner

ENERGY DISPLAYS erupt briefly with a certain symmetry

that suggests they must be part of V'ger's ower or

control systems.

Kirk peering awed at the Viewer, the incredible sight

of the chamber -- suddenly glances up to see that

Spock is standing beside him -- Decker nearby, turns

to Spock:

Reacting to a console reading:

The starship is pulled

behind it.

The viewer image changing from the huge dark chamber,

rear angle shot, showing the "iris" closing.

On the viewer the final glimmer from exterior space

as the "iris" closes completely.

All eyes on the viewer, CAMERA FINDING ONE FACE AFTER

ANOTHER, the reality of the situation etched into

each face. Then:

As Spock turns from a reading:

Ahead, the cavernous interior of V'ger.

Kirk eying the main viewer -- Decker watching Kirk.

Kirk rises, goes to Spock's station.

The Enterprise moving slowly forward in this vastness,

its running lights merely specks of light, candles in

the darkness. In the distance those occasional ERUPT-

ING POWER DISPLAYS in distant locations, sizes, shapes

and patterns.

showing another persective of the above, and further

away GLOWING ENERGY FIELDS dimly illuminating the alien

ship's walls --

SHAPES (some are "sensor-bee" swarms) traverse the dark-

ness in random directions. But in the distance ahead,

there seems to be an opening to

Sulu is indicating what appears to be a lace-bulwark of

POWERFIELD PATTERNS closing off the "chamber" in the

distance ahead. Kirk, from the Science Station calls

out:

at his Science consoles, working rapidly, shifting from

one set of controls to another. Now he hits a master

control -- his console monitors FLASH, then go dark.

Spock brings a monitor IMAGE ON again, indicates a

(Povill) pattern showing a line hitting something,

then reversing direction.

Kirk reacts with disappointment, indicates the main

viewer.

Reacting to a console reading:

A moment's reaction from all at this, Kirk hurrying

toward elevator, calling:

And Spock rises, joins Kirk and they hurriedly exit,

the CAMERA SWINGING BACK to Decker, his perplexed con-

cern (because of Ilia).

Where we SEE, behind the translucent stall door, what

is unmistakably the form of the NUDE FEMALE.

entering, Spock slightly behind him - and one Security

Guard. Kirk glances around the room, now glances at

the shower area and reacts as he sees the NAKED FORM.

The others react similarly, even Spock cannot help re-

pressing an expression of surprise. A moment's uncer-

tainty as Kirk peers at them, then he steps to the

stall door, hesitates another instant -- then

(NOTE: Arrange lighting for bizarre, mysterious effect.)

Kirk's eyes cannot believe what he is seeing:

standing in the

looks at Kirk -- and the others -- the men peer back

at her, speechless.

Kirk peers at her another nonplussed moment, then leans

into the shower to touch a control, his eyes fixed on

the lovely body behind the mist. He punches in a three

digit code. Immediately a HUMMING SOUND emanates from

the shower stall, Kirk closing the door, but 'Ilia"

remaining inside.

The HUMMING SOUND just now reaching a gentle crescendo

-- through the translucent door you can see COLORS

ENVELOPING "ILIA'S" FORM. And now the SOUND STOPS.

"Ilia", attired in a leisure robe, steps from the stall,

into the room. She stands facing Kirk, her face impas-

sive, eyes unblinking. He looks her back a moment,

then glances at Spock, who is gazing at "Ilia" in abso-

lute fascination. Kirk addresses her:

rushing in, concerned:

At the sight of 'Ilia", McCoy's words die in his throat

-- and his trained eyes have instantly told him some-

thing is awry. He unslings his tricorder, aims the

sensor unit at "Ilia". As he reads his instruments, his

face reveals the results (incredulity, fascination).

Meanwhile, from the start:

Kirk stares at McCoy, then at "Ilia" and realizes that

"Ilia" is indeed non-human. And quickly:

Stunned, disbelieving reactions as all four attempt to

digest this -- Spock gazing at "Ilia" with even more

rapt fascination. Kirk, bewildered, addresses the

others:

suddenly alert, addressing "Ilia":

Another moment of total exasperation, frustration, during

which "Ilia" seems to be waiting politely, patiently for

any further questions. When none are forthcoming:

And he grasps "Ilia's" arm to escort her. But is as

though he has seized cast iron: immovable. McCoy is

thrown off balance merely by 'Ilia's" remaining sta-

tionary. She ignores McCoy, addresses Kirk:

Kirk quickly responds to "Ilia":

scanning a "body". PULL BACK TO SHOW McCoy, Chapel,

Kirk, Spock and Chekov -- standing over "ILIA" who lies

prone on the table, the physicians moving the scanner

over her.

In the b.g.,

ings.

Chapel breaks off abruptly, noticing "Ilia" is peering

intently -- almost with a glimmer of recognition -- at

as everyone reacts to "Ilia's" utterance of Decker's

name. It seems to make the deepest impression on

Spock, confirming something he has suspected.

"Ilia" continues peering at Decker with just a hint

of a puzzled frown, a glimmer of distant recognition.

It's the first time we've seen her expression look

anything but cool and bland. This results in the

quizzical rising of one of Spock's eyebrows.

McCoy's examination now turns "Ilia" away from the

others. Spock quickly catches Kirk's and Decker's

attention, indicates an adjoining door -- they fol-

low him out of the room.

as Kirk, Spock and Decker enter, the door snapping

shut -- and Spock touching the

secure them. He faces the others:

also comprehending, and not liking it one bit as Spock

and Kirk are both turning their attention to him.

Interrupted by the SOUND of someone trying to open the

locked door behind them. Then a METAL RIPPING SOUND

as they whirl to see:

with the METAL BUCKLING, TEARING -- and a

"Ilia" probe, her face absolutely impassive, her

whole manner incongruously benign. (Behind her, a

startled McCoy, Chapel and Chekov.) "Ilia" speaks

flatly, blandly.

Kirk exchanges a quick glance with Spock. Then:

"Ilia" has seemed about to object -- but now her eyes

hold on Decker. Then she nods.

(AND "ILIA")

as Decker looks at "Ilia" who stands at the torn door.

You can read Decker's mind: I'm supposed to persuade

that?! He turns back, finds Kirk's eyes on him.

Decker nods.

"Ilia" and a reluctant Decker EXIT.

looking very troubled as they watch Decker and "Ilia"

leave. Kirk notices.

Spock EXITS.

floating in the vast, eerie, alien chamber -- sporadic

FLASHES OF ENERGY, erupting now and then. Various

other EFFECTS. OVER this, Kirk's VOICE:

The area dimly lit -- unoccupied but for a lone AIRLOCK

TECHNICIAN checking and adjusting instruments. The

CAMERA MOVES PAST him to FIND:

His face fixed with grim determination, walking quietly

with obvious intent not to attract the Tech's attention.

Now he steals up behind the TECH -- and in an instant

has applied a

his console.

Showing a CLOSE SHOT of ENTERPRISE PICTURES, then PULL

BACK SLIGHTLY for an IMAGE of Decker and "Ilia" walk-

ing through the

Kirk watching this -- and with him is

continue watching a troubled beat, as:

"Ilia" is giving the pictures a very interested look

as we HEAR in Kirk's cabin:

B.G.)

Uhura at her console, struggling to hear the signal.

In the b.g., Spock's station a MAINTENANCE TEAM

is replacing the broken Science Station computer.

(

Decker and "Ilia", the Rec Deck unoccupied but for a

pair of wary SECURITY GUARDS at a very discreet dis-

tance. They are near the pictures of the five Enter-

prises, which should be FEATURED in this SHOT, as

Decker waves his hand about the huge room.

As "Ilia" moves on into the room, Decker follows:

Decker peers at the lovely android with frustration --

and no little pain, for she is after all the exact

replica of Ilia. She pays not the slightest attention

to Decker's reaction, and begins walking about the Rec

Deck taking in (and, clearly, transmitting all images

to V'ger) the sights. They are near a

tronic games), and now Decker points to one game,

LIGHTS and SOUNDS. "Ilia" watches interestedly as

Decker operates the game.

And he demonstrates again, as "Ilia" steps to the

device, deftly hits some buttons -- and for just an

instant she turns to Decker with a momentary glimmer

of recognition.

McCoy watching with special interest:

But the words are not out of McCoy's mouth when "Ilia"

says:

She steps away from the game; Decker's disappointment

is evident. So is everyone elses.

Kirk reacts to this, reflective.

Decker waving back toward the general area of the

Enterprise pictures.

And with this she moves off, observing other Rec Deck

objects. Decker moves with her; then:

as he reacts to this ominous note; he stops abruptly.

This has been delivered with chilling blandness, and

she stands facing Decker, almost as though waiting for

him to thank her. He thinks fast now.

realizing the difficult task ahead; the pain he will

suffer.

The ship stationary in the chamber as now we SEE an

exterior hatch sliding fully open. Up through the

hatch a circular airlock door opens -- and a tiny

figure in a thruster spacesuit emerges, steps into

space, slowly floats down through the hatch and under

the Enterprise saucer section. In this and subsequent

VIEWS we will SEE that on the rear pack of his thruster

spacesuit is a FLASHING STROBE LIGHT which regularly

EMITS the identifying SIGNAL of this particular suit.

(By which Kirk will be able to see Spock's position

even from several miles away.)

MOVING TOWARD the CAMERA until the features behind

the face mask are clearly identifiable: Spock, his

face set in the same grim, determined expression, as

he touches his spacesuit transmitter control.

Kirk ENTERING, crossing Uhura as she calls:

His features now set into an almost trance-like expres-

sion as he concentrates on the thought emanations.

Then we SEE his head turn, he peers off -- then he

moves his thruster controls. We SEE the small blue

jets of his thrusters -- his spacesuit figure begins

to move off in the direction he was concentrating

upon.

His thrusters moving him across V'ger's vast chamber

then dropping down into a deep "trough"-like area

which stretches into the distance ahead of him. A

cloud of CRYSTAL FORMS (Kirk's entrapment) become

visible to one side but Spock passes them at some dis-

tance and does not attract them.

We can SEE more clearly now the point on the inner wall

of the trough toward which Spock is heading. It is an

unusual combination of GLOWING FORCEFIELDS which seem

to mark this point of the vessel as of some importance.

(Here, also, we will become aware of "sensor-bee"

swarms, intermittently darting toward this same wall

from all points of the chamber.)

SHOWING Kirk in a thruster spacesuit, helmet being

readied by AIRLOCK TECHNICIANS. McCoy is also here,

arguing with Kirk:

And Kirk steps into the airlock door, hits a control --

it begins sliding closed behind him.

UP THROUGH the circular airlock door as it slides open

-- and Kirk's tiny spacesuited figure floats down

clear of the saucer.

SEEING his face through the spacesuit faceplate as he

scans the darkness.

During which, Kirk spots something.

Spock's STROBE blinker at a mile or so distance,

nearing V'ger's inner walls.

During which, Kirk touches his thruster controls and

blue thruster jet propels him off in the direction

indicated. His thrusters come on for a longer period

of time as he accelerates to the higher speed necessary

to overtake Spock...

The DOOR SNAPPING open, and "Ilia", McCoy and Decker

entering. Then CAMERA REVEALS

looking through some female adornments she's found

there.

Clearly this is

Chapel hands the

"Ilia" hasn't the slightest idea what to do with the

headband, holds it, runs her fingers over the jewels

and feathers embedded into it. Chapel takes it from

her, places it on 'Ilia's" head, now switches on the

light illuminating the dressing table mirror -- stands

behind her with Decker, both watching apprehensively.

studying her image in the mirror, her face totally

blank a moment, but then breaking into a bemused

frown -- as though trying to remember. And:

And it seems that "Ilia" does remember. She peers at

her image, then sets the headband into its exact

proper position. Then she turns and looks at them

with recognition.

as Chapel smiles, pleased, and looks at Decker who

stares at "Ilia" nonplussed. This is Ilia coming

alive!

And she touches his hand, runs her own hand over it,

and smiles.

Decker is completely overwhelmed, struggles for words

and looks to McCoy for some kind of help. McCoy

realizes Decker is losing himself in fantasy.

Decker is startled, and for another slit-second he's

lost -- but then he realizes the reality, and what he

should do:

Decker looks at "Ilia's" hand still resting on his.

Then:

For another moment "Ilia" continues smiling at Decker,

holding his hand. Then, abruptly, the smile vanishes

-- the hand is released. Clearly, she's again the

probe, as:

Decker glances at McCoy, who shakes his head almost

imperceptibly: he doesn't know. But Decker has an

obvious reply:

"Ilia" peers at him blankly, allows him to continue

touching her hand, but obviously it means nothing to

her.

Decker's face reflects his bemusement:

as now, the bemusement changes to just the slightest

enlightenment.

Kirk but a small object, thruster jets occasionally

spurting as he guides himself deeper into the trench

as he continues forward progress in the direction he

saw Spock taking.

So we can SEE his face (through the plate), as he looks

ahead into the distance toward Spock.

Spock's STROBE signal closer and Spock's tiny space-

suited figure now becoming dimly visible as he moves

steadily toward the GLOWING FORCEFIELDS of the inner

wall.

His attention fixed on Spock, he never notices until

an instant too late an O.S. object; quickly he hits a

thruster control, and we SEE the MANEUVERING JET turn

him to the side as:

A swarm of strange-looking translucent crystal-like

FORMS on a collision course with Kirk. (NOTE: They

were traveling

structions. However, Kirk's nearness now has attracted

them and the swarm of them heads in his direction.

Kirk tries to avoid them; he hits a second MANEUVERING

JET -- but he overcompensates, and spins straight into

the intercepting swarm of them.

as the nearest crystal forms WHIP INTO SHOT, adhering

to Kirk's spacesuit. He hits full MANEUVERING JETS

now, seems to make some escape, but still more forms

WHIP IN, adhere.

All eyes anxiously on the O.S. main viewer.

Sulu hits the viewer magnification control.

As the distant STROBE FLASHES of Kirk's spacesuit are

MAGNIFIED CLOSER, pulling Kirk into MEDIUM LONG SHOT.

We can SEE the details of the swarm of forms adhering.

Expressions of bridge crew to reflect the horror of

what they're seeing as:

Looks of distress are exchanged.

Spock's spacesuited figure MOVING TOWARD the CAMERA,

as we HEAR:

No indication at first that Spock has heard; his face

set with determination, his eyes fixed on his destin-

ation: the inner wall.

as Kirk's VOICE STOPS -- and all that is heard now

is the HEAVY STATIC crackling ominously. Spock's

expression flickers, then he hits reverse thruster

JETS, stops -- he turns to glance at the inner wall,

then his thrusters turn him so he can look back the

way he came from. But he cannot resist Kirk's call;

he suddenly hits his thruster controls, then JETS

FLARE, and:

as thruster JETS accelerate him back toward Kirk.

showing Kirk's spacesuit completely covered, encased

in the blob. Kirk is

distance, facing toward him is

with Spock in the near distance, heading TOWARD the

CAMERA. As he approaches Kirk, Spock brings out his

phaser. Now he hits the controls for the REVERSE JETS --

he slows RAPIDLY as he approaches Kirk's now complete-

ly encased spacesuit. Spock makes a quick phaser

adjustment.

Spock levels the phaser carefully. FIRES. The PHASER

BEAM strikes the blob form -- it SHATTERS, the pieces

DISINTEGRATING.

facing each other while hovering in space.

Spock does not immediately reply, peers at Kirk through

the faceplate a long beat, then abruptly looks away,

points off into the distance:

We can SEE what appear to be SPARKLING GLOBULES OF

LIGHT darting toward the inner wall in the distance,

then disappearing there. (We'll SEE other swarms

occasionally too, coming from different directions --

they will later be identified as "sensor swarms" on

closer examination.)

Kirk weighs alternatives, then pushes his thruster

controls and begins moving in the direction Spock

indicated.

Their thruster jets flash, propel them toward the

point on the inner wall.

The most prominent area of the vast inner wall -- the

patterns on the wall here seem to GLOW with life.

The spacesuited figures of Kirk and Spock ENTER SCENE,

gliding slowly toward what seems to be the central

part of theses patterns.

as they approach and then we SEE the brief REVERSE

THRUSTERS and then forward momentum stops; motionless.

Then Spock sees something, indicates.

Now, we SEE that they are tiny, multi-colored points

of FLASHING LIGHT -- almost like swarms of bees.

They approach the inner wall at this central point

and seem to "disappear" through the orifice.

This "sensor swarm" has been coming from a direction

that will take them close past Kirk and Spock. Then,

as it passes, Spock reaches out quickly, grabs.

He turns to Kirk, his hand closed on something.

Spock opens his hand, retaining a hold on something

with his fingers. He brings it up to Kirk's face mask

-- it's a tiny SENSOR, its multi-colors flashing as it

tries to escape from Spock's fingers. And in this CLOSE

VIEW, we SEE that this is a SENSOR very much like the

one we've seen earlier embedded in the Ilia-probe's

throat hollow. Then Spock releases it and it darts

to join the sensor swarm near the opening of the inner

wall.

From this closer distance,

Kirk and Spock exchange a look. Their thruster JETS

ignite briefly, moving them in that direction.

closely approaching the inner wall now, timing their

movements to coincide with the arrival of another

"swarm" -- the wall begins OPENING. The "swarm"

through, the wall begins CLOSING -- but Spock and

Kirk slip in before it closes.

The wall closing behind them, they are safely inside.

But as they stop their forward momentum, their eyes

widen with awe and surprise at what they are seeing:

The long "cave" chamber with its row of huge MEDIATOR

BALLS extending into the distance. To one side, the

gleaming CRYSTAL MEMORY WALL.

as Spock makes a quick analysis and estimate of what

they are seeing. Then, he takes out his tricorder

again, propels himself toward the memory crystals.

Kirk follows.

as Spock adjusts his tricorder through several readings.

And Spock touches one of these new crystals (it will be

PROFUSION OF FAINT IMAGES, but this time including a

pattern-like image of

ones destroyed by the Cloud), and obvious

of the

And he turns and begins moving on, studying the wall,

consulting his tricorder.

Spock inspecting this area at which the "newer" crystals

are PULSATING and GLOWING, and which appears to be a

termination of the Crystal area, continuing on and dis-

A beat, as Kirk reacts incredulously.

Spock turns his spacesuit, turns his tricorder out to-

ward the Mediator Balls, takes a reading in that di-

rection. Then a glance to Kirk.

Spock touches his spacesuit controls; the THRUSTER

JETS move him out toward the Mediator Balls.

Spock reaching the Ball, halts his momentum and

hand toward a part of it which looks strangely "alive."

The very power generated from this area is clearly

affecting Spock's hand. Meanwhile, Kirk has used his

THRUSTERS to join him.

But Spock pays him no attention, his entire being now

focused on the PULSATING GLOW of the "alive" area --

the CAMERA MOVING IN CLOSER TO Spock, as he

hand toward that surface, closer, closer.

watching, almost mesmerized. Torn between wanting to

pull Spock away from the wall -- and knowing that

Spock must go through with it. For everyone's sake.

preparing for the ordeal, moving his hand to the "liv-

ing area," the invisible force even stronger -- but

Spock's strength unwavering, and now he

touch. And at the same moment Spock' body convulses

as if tens of thousands of volts of electricity are

charging through him.

as he begins to shudder with the shock, the CAMERA

CONTINUES INTO EXTREME CLOSE-UP as we SEE Spock's mouth

open -- he SCREAMS. CAMERA INTO EXTREME CLOSE SHOT OF

SPOCK'S EYES.

MUSIC IN AND UP as we travel through ABSTRACT IMAGES

(per Con Pederson discussion). Symbolizing V'ger's

incredible and complex store of mechanistic knowledge,

these IMAGES suggest patterns of atoms, molecules,

galaxies, dimensions of the universe beyond human

knowledge or comprehension. It takes only fifteen or

twenty seconds, but seems to span aeons, taking us

through micro-infinity and macro-infinity.

DISSOLVE TO :

CAMERA BRIDGING BACK OUT THROUGH SPOCK'S EYES AND INTO

ANGLE ON SPOCK'S FACE as he lies in a sickbay bed. His

eyes are open; he is staring straight ahead as if in a

catatonic state, completly unaware of his surroundings.

Then Doctor Chapel leans INTO SCENE, moving a medical

scanner over the brain area.

McCoy at a console, watching readings he is getting

from Chapel's scanner. Kirk watches McCoy anxiously.

Before Kirk can reply, they HEAR a

harsh, bitter laugh.

as all whirl to the patient area where it is obviously

Spock who has just laughed -- but there is no indication

of laughter from him now. A startled Chapel has stepped

back away from the bed. Spock seems to be attempting

to focus, orient himself as Kirk and McCoy hurry to the

bedside.

And Spock reaches out a hand weakly., takes a surprised

Kirk's hand in his. McCoy exchanges a surprised glance

with Kirk, as Spock -- clutching Kirk's hand in friend-

ship and need -- struggles to summon strength to speak.

with Kirk and McCoy exchanging another surprised

glance (at Spock's emotion), with McCoy gesturing Kirk

not to question it.

Kirk nods at McCoy.

as Spock turns to Kirk.

Kirk waits for Spock to continue, but Spock seems too

weak.

But Spock falls back, exhausted -- and McCoy gently

tugs at Kirk, AD-LIBBING,

Kirk shrugs McCoy away, addresses Spock:

Just then an INTERCOM SIGNAL:

Immediately,

as Chapel urns to a MED TECH, AD LIBS an order,

the hypo-injector, and hands it to Chapel - and she

injects Spock, the hypo emitting a fast, QUIET HISS --

Kirk gazes at Spock just an instant as Spock breathes

deeply, the drug clearly strengthening him. Chapel

and the Tech help Spock from the bed, as Kirk addresses

McCoy:

Kirk looks at him, then at Spock -- on his feet now --

then at McCoy again:

Kirk stands facing him another moment, then whirls

and steps to the monitor, flips some buttons, and

peaks into his communicator.

SHOWING Scott (at his console) listening to Kirk's

words -- and facing Decker and "Ilia" who are just

about to leave Engineering. (In b.g. the Engine core

GLOWS the appropriate color, and there is a SOFT

HUM of IDLE POWER.) Kirk's VOICE continues:

The probe bland as usual, but Kirk's words seem to

have strangely elated Decker; he says to her:

just now confronting them, regarding "Ilia" with open

disapproval.

Decker really hasn't heard Scott; he's gazing at "Ilia,"

attempting to digest what she's just said. But quickly:

He moves to leave.

Now Decker and "Ilia" move toward the exit, Scott gaz-

ing after them glaringly, watching "Ilia's" every

move. Suddenly, almost into the corridor, "Ilia" turns

and looks back at the engine room. She addresses

Decker, but load enough for Scott to overhear:

Kirk with McCoy and Spock, who although somewhat shaky,

is clearly more alert. They are just assuming their

stations.

Kirk pausing halfway to his chair to study the viewer

on which is appearing

As they begin to study it, the IMAGE suddenly distorts and

is replaced by signal interference -- SIGNAL STATIC LINES

RUNNING ACROSS THE VIEWER SCREEN.

(Somewhat resembling the kind of high voltage interference

some-times seen on the television screen.)

Uhura hits buttons and immediately from the speakers we

HEAR A SERIES OF CARRIER WAVE BEEPS. Spock looks up from

his console, listens to it.

as the doors snap open and Decker and "Ilia" appear.

All eyes go to them as:

Kirk hears this, turning inquiringly toward her, but

Uhura interrupts:

as, indeed, the interference is fading and a new Main

Viewer IMAGE is appearing -- it shows V'GER IN EARTH

ORBIT with a strange looking OBJECT moving away from

V'ger. It is an ominous looking, HUGE SWIRLING GREEN

MASS -- it resembles the same green plasma-energy bolts

that destroyed the Klingons and Epsilon 9 -- and very

nearly the Enterprise. It is not a bolt now -- the mass

is much larger and appears

object has now formed and moves off, a third one begins

to appear. (Meanwhile, the first and second PLASMA-

ENERGY OBJECTS are moving off into the distance in

different direction.)

Sulu adjusts the viewer through several IMAGE MAGNI-

FICATIONS until we SEE the huge OMINOUS GREEN DEVICES

more clearly.

Kirk reacts hard at this. Uhura gets another message.

exchanging significant glances.

as Kirk vaults from his chair, strides to a handrail to

confront the "Ilia"-probe.

Three of the four OMINOUS SWIRLING GREEN OBJECTS have

all moved away from V'ger now, in different directions,

growing smaller in the distance. The

holding position nearby, seeming to grow in size and

intensity.

as he throws a look toward Spock who is now in deep

meditation. Kirk turns and takes "Ilia's" shoulders

and carefully turns her to face him.

Kirk peers at Decker a moment, ingesting this thought.

Then he addresses "Ilia" again, this time with emotion:

after all, he is pleading for the survival of the

entire planet:

Kirk pauses abruptly: "Ilia" is regarding him blandly,

stonily -- not the slightest reaction or response;

clearly Kirk's plea is being ignored.

Kirk draws in his breath to continue, realizes the

futility, turns helplessly to Spock.

who has been listening intently, with near fascination

-- an idea forming in his mind. Quickly, he steps

down to Kirk:

Spock peers at McCoy almost sadly, then replies to

Decker.

Kirk says nothing, looks at Spock who is awaiting a

reaction; then Kirk glances at "Ilia" -- his brain

is racing, struggling to reach a decision. And then:

"Ilia" studies Decker just a bland beat, then turns

to Kirk:

Kirk studies her a moment, then decides to press his

bet:

A moment where all are startled at this order -- but

no time for questions as just then the ship is ROCKED

BY A FURIOUS POWERFUL ERUPTION NEARBY within V'ger.

Just then another ERUPTION -- the ship is ROCKED AGAIN.

rocked about by the furious powerfields -- with

frightening displays of ray energy.

as all react to the powerful blasts, holding on to

railings, etc, at the same time attempting to secure

their stations for the evacuation. The DAMAGE REPAIR

TECHNICIAN leaves his station, crossing to exit.

Kirk merely looks at her, then to the evacuating crew:

Meanwhile, Decker has crossed to Chekov's now abandoned

console, checks it.

turning to confront "Ilia":

as LIGHT SHOW outside perceptically recedes, and simul-

taneously the ROCKING CEASES. At the same time, "Ilia"

is saying:

Kirk does not reply to this, turns away to observe

the withdrawing crew. Most are out; only Spock,

Decker and McCoy remain behind -- with McCoy on his

way. The bridge lighting

Spock, who nods approvingly; clearly Spock is the only

person who seems to comprehend what Kirk is doing, and

why. As Kirk now moves toward the exit, and the lights

are dimmed even further:

And, gesturing the others ahead of him, Kirk starts

toward the bridge elevator. "Ilia" calls after him:

Decker and McCoy about to enter, Spock and Kirk just

behind -- all stopping abruptly now at "Ilia's" state-

ment. The very tone of her voice is enough for them

to realize they have made a very telling point. Kirk

follows fast:

wryly reacting to this:

as Kirk looks at Spock, Kirk's whole expression convey-

ing the obvious question: "What the hell do we do now?"

But Spock is ready with an answer:

Spock allows the sentence to hang, as he and Kirk

eye each other significantly, the CAMERA SWINGING

OVER TO KIRK so we can perceive that to Kirk this

idea has an even greater significance.

Kirk nods grimly, faces "Ilia" again; this time

he's playing for all the stakes.

all wait with hushed expectancy, all eyes on "Ilia"

who seems momentarily in some internal communication.

She turns away from Kirk and steps forward looking at

the Main Viewer.

the image of the chamber in which the Enterprise is

imprisoned. But now, toward the chamber-end, where

further passage had previously been barred by the lace-

work energy barriers -- an OPENING APPEARS. And at

the same time there is a GENTLE LURCHING EFFECT, and:

"Ilia" steps down from the platform and into the well

where she is closer to the viewer.

moving through the chamber, pulled by the invisible

tractor beam, toward the OPENING -- toward the next

chamber which, from this POV seems even larger,

more forbidding.

as the four officers step down onto the bridge, Spock

hurrying to his science station, Kirk to the center

seat.

As Kirk attends to his console, Deck is at an

intercom:

At the same time the lights are brightening -- and

members of the bridge crew begin returning. All this

time there is an ever increasing sense of movement.

Kirk glances at Decker:

Kirk reacts, pleased, a split beat at Decker's "our"

hand, and goes on:

Kirk throws him a look of appreciation, then, abruptly

his manner changes as he addresses Chekov:

at his console, a female engineering technician (CHIEF

ROSS) nearby, the usual engine room ambience in the

b.g., as:

as Kirk hesitates, glances around at the crew -- now

all having resumed their stations -- and then grimly

looks at "Ilia" who still remains at the rail.

Hearing this, Spock whirls around -- peers incredulously

at Kirk. He appears for a moment to be incensed at

Kirk's words. Then he realizes and understands Kirk's

position and turns, sadly resigned, back to his work.

as Scott, too, hears this, but his reaction is of grim

acceptance. Not so Chief Ross; she is horrified.

And Scott hits buttons on his console, now moves to

step from his station, nearly collides with Ross, who

clearly is bravely struggling to maintain her poise

and dignity:

The ship passing now through a chamber that is vastly

more active than anything we have previously seen.

Directly ahead appears to be an area that dispatches

powerfields; a tremendous volume of them seem to ema-

nate and converge there. The medium from which the

ship moves appears almost solid, to the point where it

seems incredible that the ship can be pulled through

it at all. The entire chamber pulses with machine-

like, alien life. This should even be evidenced in the

booming POWERFIELD LIGHTENING BOLTS as they course in

ever more frighteningly close proximity to the ship as:

The crew all watching the awesome spectacle of V'ger's

interior (on the viewer) as the Enterprise is being

pulled toward the brain complex. All are somewhat sub-

dued, for all realize how their journey will end -- but

at the same time they also realize there is no other

way. The CAMERA PANS, catching facial reactions -- as,

in the b.g., we HEAR a constant flow of AD-LIBBED crew

comments:

His back to the viewer, the angle does not reveal his

facial features, but we can discern him struggling to

contain his feelings.

Kirk's back to Spock as he watches the viewer, Kirk

now turning toward Spock.

Spock does not respond, then Kirk reacts with momentary

annoyance, then realizes Spock is totally distracted.

Kirk peers at him a moment, then suddenly rises and

steps up to:

as Kirk arrives, with Spock still facing away from

him, clearly distracted.

Spock moves to face him, turning fully INTO the CAMERA

so we can see now, just under Spock's eye:

A

Kirk is speechless a moment, glances at McCoy who has

also witnessed this phenomenon, and started toward

Spock; but Kirk gestures McCoy to stay back, as he

addresses Spock:

Spock pauses as Kirk peers incredulously at him, then

continues:

Listening, McCoy's face reflecting concern; Decker's

face compassion and understanding, with Decker step-

ping closer to Spock, as Spock continues:

as Decker reacts with sudden, almost evangelical en-

lightenment, as Kirk Says:

ON DIFALCO

reacting to the (O.S.) viewer, AD-LIBBING a terse:

PAST KIRK AND SPOCK TO THE VIEWER

where another opening is suddenly visible -- another

the previous chambers are no longer evident. Instead,

the entire chamber appears beautifully symmetrical,

with a strange, subdued glow, which increases as we

move closer.

COMPLEX

This enormous chamber resembles a hemisphere, laced

throughout with dazzling energy patterns, not at all

ominous, but quite lovely in effect. As the Enterprise

continues forward motion, now ahead you will to SEE a

small "island." Floating in the exact center of the

hemisphere, the "island" seems alive with PULSING LIGHT,

with more of the lovely and delicate ENERGY FORMS and

COLORS. On the "island," vague at this distance, ap

pears to be a "solid" matter form.

The "island" looming larger in the distance. And the

Enterprise (as evidenced from the viewer) perceptibly

Kirk says nothing a moment, studies the viewer -- and

then:

as Kirk turns from the intercom and glances at McCoy.

Between them a total look of understanding.

The Enterprise approaching the edge of the "island" --

slowing, but still quite clearly being pulled by the

tractor beam. The "solid matter" in the "island" cen-

ter still obscured by the STRANGE LIGHT GLOW emanating

from that area. The Enterprise is now nearly at the

"island" edge.

as all watching "island" loom closer and closer.

Kirk glances at the Viewer, the oncoming "island," then

at Spock:

Decker's last word is interrupted by an almost gentle

BUMP -- and on the Viewer all perceptible motion has

The ship's sauce leading edge holding position at

the "island" edge as though docked.

watching the (O.S.) Viewer.

all very silent a moment, gazing at the sight. Now

Kirk glances at the people around him: on his command

their lives are about to end. Nothing is said; no

time for it, no inclination to articulate the obvious.

No need to.

reacting to a console reading with surprise.

All this has caused Kirk to vacillate, but he still

believes his course of action is the proper one, as:-

"Ilia" is moving toward the elevator, turning to face

the others as she says this. Kirk remains frozen, his

hand on the intercom button. He glances at McCoy, as

though seeking advice. McCoy peers at him blandly,

levelly; Kirk must follow his own instinct.

gazing at "Ilia," then at Spock, his brain racing, con-

sidering all the possibilities, options. He glances

at the anxious faces awaiting his decision: a possible

twenty-two more minutes of life -- or instant death.

Another beat as he decides. Then:

He starts for elevator.

as Kirk strides toward the elevator, joining McCoy and

Spock.

Kirk studies Decker a beat -- there is something com-

pelling about Decker's manner -- a certain sense of

absolute necessity. Kirk seems about to deny the re-

quest, then turns to Sulu:

And Kirk leaves; Decker, his face reflecting a strange,

almost eager gratification, hurries after him.

A sudden STORM OF LIGHT AND STRANGE SOUND. In the

midst of it, Kirk finds a SHAFT OF LIGHT very much

centering on him. He sees "Ilia" watching him with

none of their "former navigator" in her expression

now. Kirk hesitates, gathering his thoughts:

Kirk's words lead to a suggestion of FRUSTRATION in the

STORM OF LIGHT AND SOUND around them.

as he moves to her:

Decker has reached out to touch her -- the probe spins

at his touch -- the move knocks Decker from his feet,

tumbling, a hard fall. Then the robe looks at him

lying there -- just the slightest softening of her

features now.

slowly turning to face the probe again.

as she meets Decker's look, her expression softening

still more. The STORM OF LIGHT and SOUND begins to

subside a bit. She moves to him and he gets to his feet.

Uhura with Sulu and Chekov there.

as Uhura continues:

Kirk, Spock and McCoy are standing some distance from

them (out of hearing). The probe is clearly moving

into still closer touch with Lt. Ilia's memory patterns

as Decker takes her hand.

McCoy is looking at Kirk with an incredulous expression

on his face.

at the side of Voyager Six, Decker in the midst of

twisting a wing-nut which releases a hatch which swings

open. Decker peers inside while "Ilia" waits.

Decker and "Ilia" at the old capsule in b.g. as Kirk

looks that way.

We SEE Decker look up at Kirk's call, then ignore him

and go back to inspecting inside the access hatch. At

this moment, from Kirk's communicator, a SIGNAL.

The three of them exchange looks -- Kirk, Spock and

McCoy exchanging a silent moment of friendship and

resignation. Then Kirk lifts his communicator again:

catching Decker in the midst of pressing a control on

his tricorder. Both he and "Ilia" are watching Kirk

and the others closely. Now Decker looks down at the

tricorder's face. He nods:

still waiting. They continue to wait. McCoy shifts

uncomfortably, throws Kirk a puzzled glance. Kirk

finally lifts his communicator.

as the others turn to Decker and "Ilia."

Then Kirk touches a control on his tricorder exactly

as Decker did earlier. Then he looks up, reacts as

he sees Decker holding his own tricorder up -- and a

smile playing on Decker's face.

as Kirk suddenly pivots, races toward Decker -- but he

passes too close to the "Ilia"-probe. It sends him

spinning back, tumbling to his knees.

as KIRK starts up to scramble to his feet but Spock has

stepped in, putting a hand on Kirk's shoulder and re

straining him.

And then Decker shoves the tricorder into the access

hatch.

TRANSCENDING (S)

For just an instant nothing happens -- and then a

BLINDING SHAFT OF LIGHT STRIKES Decker. The color

becomes BRIGHTER AND BRIGHTER, begins spiraling through

the room. "Ilia" stes toward Decker, is caught in the

LIGHT, and instantly VANISHES in a BRILLIANT WHITE GLOW.

We SEE Decker seeming to grow larger -- as if his

molecular pattern is expanding. A SPECTACULAR SERIES

OF VISUALS., THE SPIRALING LIGHT enveloping the entire

area.

All this emanating from Decker's body, becoming LARGER

-- also BRIGHTER AND BRIGHTER until now it is almost

directions, and the room itself starting to

vanishing into nothingness -- and all commencing to

slip into the new dimension.

Kirk, Spock and McCoy stand transfixed another instant.

Around them, V'ger seems to be TRANSFORMING INTO BRIL-

LIANT, LOVELY PATTERNS. They all turn and race into

the complex in the direction of their vessel.

It too seems to be flowering into loveliness, brilliant,

graceful patterns as they seem to slip through to another

dimension, vanishing.

The "FLOWERING" EFFECT now spreading outward, V'ger's

massive shape becoming a spiraling pattern of twisting,

graceful shapes and brilliant colors -- a transcendence

into another dimension.

And then all of that is left is a shimmering, jewel-like

point of light -- and then it too fades -- and reveals

there in the blue-black of space, the U.S.S. Enterprise.

which shows now only space and its familiar star

patterns. All gaze at the viewer, awed at what they've

seen and undergone. They exchange looks silently, no

one wanting to be the first to try to comment on some-

thing which is beyond mere words. We HEAR an ELEVATOR

DOOR, Scott and Chapel ENTER the bridge and stand

silently watching.

Spock's cold look at McCoy is interrupted by:

Kirk and Spock exchange a look -- then Kirk turns to

the helm.

Then the trace of a smile comes over Spock's face.

Planet Earth in the distance, and receding in size as

the starship heads out the other direction.

FADE OUT.

