Proud YOUNG PEOPLE in uniform, the bloom of human evolution.

The mobile infantery logo:	LIGHTNING BOLTS ON A BLACK SHIELD.

Behold actual pictures of a METEOR, this one a mile across, as it hurtles

past an observation ship.

A BRIGHT EXPLOSION in space out beyond the moon.

Klendathu, a fierce orange planet ringed by an asteroid belt,

orbits a double star.

A "You are here" map of the KNOWN GALAXY shows the Earth in

relationship to the BUG PLANETARY SYSTEM and Klendathu.

For BATTLE GROUPS, sixty STARSHPS strong, orbit the orange planet.

Graphics:	KLENDATHU:	THE INVASION

takes the Mobile Infantery CAP TROOPERS wearing fully armed Marauder

POWER SUITS as they move up the line, the pans to the

NET CORRESPONDENT

Blood hits the lens as the Correspondent is cut in half.

The CAMERA catches a glimpse of HUGE CLAWS as Cap Trooper

JOHNNY RICO , 18, blows away SOMETHING BIG big with his pulse cannon.

The cap troopers move out, among them DIZZY FLORES, 18, ACE

LEVY, 19, and KITTEN SMITH, 18. The CAMERA pauses, unsure.

The CAMERA follows. The PULSE of BUG BATTERIES is blinding.

Cap Troopers scream as they are torn apart right and left by an enemy

seen only in disorientating glimpses.

The group splits into two, and the CAMERA follows Johnny.

Something slices Kitten Smith, and he goes down screaming.

Johnny stops to help his comrade. A CLAW slashes into him.

Now something grabs the CAMERA, spinning it around.

We glimpse the hideous jaws of an ARACHNID WARRIOR.

The CAMERA hits the ground. Johnny, badly wounded, bleeding

from the mouth, crawls into CAMERA, trying to get away from the

dark INSECT SHAPES that close in on him.

His eyes glaze over as he remembers

is beautiful, just 18, and quite pleased with herself  because

Johnny Rico is clearly infatuated with her.

The teacher JEAN RASCZAK, 38, a rugged veteran who proudly

displays his missing hand, scowls at Johnny, bemused.

But as soon as Rasczak turns back to the class, Johnny begins to sketch

a cartoon on his desk's touch screen.

Rasczak points at LANNY, 17, with his stump

Rasczak is crestfallen, makes a big show of patience.

Laughter. Johnny's cartoon, meanwhile, is taking shape:

Johnny and Carmen flying round planet Venus in a space ship.

CARL JENKINS, 18, a superintelligent geek, jumps in.

Laughter. Rasczak grins.

DIZZY FLORES, 18, athletic, pretty, no nonsense, chimes in.

Rasczak points at Carmen.

Johnny presses  "SEND" on his desk, and the cartoon appears

across the way on Carmen's screen.

While Rasczak looks away, Carmen throws Johnny her wonderful

smile, and Johnny's gone, checked out, flying round Venus.

Dizzy notices the dreamy look on Johnny's face.

So does Rasczak. He points at him with his stump,

snaps Johnny to.

A bell rings. Rasczak shrugs, indifferent.

walk with their friends. Several COUPLES hold hands. Johnny

tries to take Carmen's hand, but she demurs. Johnny broods.

join other students around a MULTI-SCREEN KIOSK.

Carmen enters her name, receives her score:	97% !	She beams.

Then she spots Carl across the way talking with MARCO, 17.

Carmen rushes off. Johnny checks his score:	35% ! Crushed, he

makes sure no none else has seen. Carl walks up to him.

Carl points out Dizzy, talking with friends.

It's true. You can tell by the way she looks at Johnny.

Carmen returns to Johnny as Carls heads off.

Carmen blushes, covers.

Carmen notices the way Dizzy's looking at Johnny, doesn't

like it one bit, takes Johnny's arm.

is an older woman, very spry, also blind. Johnny, Carmen and

other students gather around covered lab tables.

The students remove the cover to reveal large alien bugs, 60

centimeter ARKELLIAN SAND BEETLES laid out for dissection.

Johnny slices the abdomen open with asurgical laser. Green

fluid sprays from the slit. Carmen turns away looking ill.

She points to an insect evolution chart that starts with a

common ant and ends with a two meter tall ARACHNID WARRIOR.

Johnny applies a spreader and jacks the insects abdominal cavity

open with aresounding crack. Bug guts gush out.

She heads for the door, hand over her mouth.

walk home from school together.

Indeed, they are all alone now. The look in Johnny's eye says how

about it. Carmen grins, reaches for Johnny's hand.

and Johnny stand together near a bank of TRANSPORTERS.

Johnny's face darkens with frustration.

Carmen steps into the flux.	ZAPPP!	She's gone.

Johnny grins, happy to be in love.

is hard-wired to the stacks of processing units that comprise Carl's

basement workshop. Carl concentrates on the image of a playing card,

the six of diamonds, displayed on a monitor.

The ace of spades appears, and the computer indicates "no match".

Carl puts another card up, the jack of diamonds.

Wrong again.

The next card up is the nine of clubs.

Suddenly, A GIANT YELLOW FROG jumps onto the keyboard, fritzing

the monitor. Johnny removes the blindfold.

Johnny knows this frog, scratches him on the neck.

Carl concentrates for a moment.

Cyrano's eyes widen. He hops off the table and up the stairs two at

a time. Carl clears the screen.

From upstairs, CARL'S MOM shrieks.

Carl, puts up more cards, Johnny misses them all.

Carl puts a card up.

The computer indicates a match. Johnny peers around at the monitor.

It is the Queen of hearts.

and other students wearing orange and black sing the "Uni High Song".

The SCOREBOARD says:	REGIONAL FINAL.

Across the field, fans wear red and gold and sing another song.

and other UNI HIGH TIGERS, all exceptionally robust young man and women,

suit up in their orange and black uniforms.

Dizzy bounces a JUMP SHOE to Johnny. The spring fires and vaults it high into

the air. Johnny catches it, puts it on, smiles cocky at the TESLA GIANTS who

suit up in red and gold.

cheers as Johnny runs back to join his team. He sees Carmen waving, glad that

Johnny has seen her among all the people.

and other Tigers listen as quarterback Dizzy calls the plays.

They make fists, then breal for thevline of scrimmage.

have the ball. The Giant's QUARTERBACKassigns ZANDER BARCALOW, 18,

handsome, super-confident, to guard Johnny.

Zander points. The SCOREBOARD shows	TIGERS 19,	GIANTS 20,

three minutes and counting on the clock. Johnny grins.

Johnny takes the handoff, flips over a gauntlet of Giant guards. Zander

hurls himself at Johnny, misses. Johnny scores.

Zander tumbles into the crowd, loses a jump shoe.

looks up and sees Carmen, smiling as she offers him a hand. She helps

him up. He holds her hand longer than necessary.

runs back to join his team as the crowd cheers. The Tigers lead

21-20. Johnny frowns when he sees Carmen talking to Zander on

the sidelines, shaking his head, smiling.

finds his shoe, straps it on.

Zander heads for the field. Carmen follows, interested.

A REFEREE blows his whistle at Zander, signalling impatiently.

are in possession. Zander lands hard in front of Johnny.

Johnny scowls at Zander, turns his head to look back at Carmen.

She waves, smiling. The Giants pull ablitz.

Zander knocks Johnny on his ass, and the Giants score. It's

TIGERS 21, GIANTS 22 and less than a minute to go.

orders up the next play. Johnny keeps looking over his shoulder

because Zander's back talking to Carmen again.

Dizzy slams Johnny upside his helmet with her forearm.

They make fists and break.

takes position again across the line from Zander who now grins at

Johnny broadly. Johnny  doesn't grin back.

At the snap, Johnny breaks for open field. Dizzy throws, Johnny catches

it, trips Zander up painfully, and hurls himself into the end zone as a

horn sounds the game's finish.

rush onto the field as the school band strikes up a victory march.

Tigers do flips in the air. Giants look dejected.

Zander picks himself up, watches Johnny leave with Carmen.

walks throuh rooms filled with elegant furniture. He's all spiffed up

for the big dance. His MOTHER catches him preening in front of a

mirror by the TRANSPORTER in the hall.

Johnny's FATHER enters carrying a FEDERAL SERVICE CATALOGUE.

Johnny shrugs.

Johnny puts on his jacket.

Johnny stomps out, the transporter goes ZAPPP !

at the "Farewell Dance" is dressed up. Rasczak and other TEACHERS

chaperon. A spotlight finds the BAND LEADER.

The lights go down. Dizzy, dressed pretty, brightens when she sees Johnny

standing alone near the dance floor.

Dizzy pulls him onto the floor, holds him close.

There is an invitation here. Johnny doesn't take it.

Dizzy looks at Johnny meaningfully. He's distracted. Carmen crosses

the room, stunning in her formal.

Johnny heads for Carmen. Dizzy watches jealously as Carmen takes

his hand. She looks around for someone to dance with.

Carl, a nerd in a tux, waves shyly.

dance. Johnny wants to kiss her, Carmen playfully avoids.

Carl and Dizzy dance by, Dizzy smiling bravely because Carl is a terrible dancer.

Johnny goes in for the kiss again.

Johnny's confidence makes her smile. Johnny moves in to kiss her,

but the music ends. Everyone applauds. The lights come up and

people head for the doors. Johnny sees Rasczak.

Johnny heads over to Rasczak.

walks out and finds Carmen talking with Zander. He wears the blue

uniform of a Fleet pilot trainee. Carmen examines his FLEET PIN,

a pair of silver wings.

Zander takes back the wings and pins the to his tunic.

walk together along the river holding hands.

Carmen pulls Johnny to a stop, looks him in the eye.

Carmen smiles, leans in close to Johnny.

They kiss, tentatively, but the passion grows and they break apart,

breathless.

making out as they wait their turn. There are a few other people around

including a POLICEMAN.

Without stopping, Johnny pulls Carmen into the flux.	ZAPPP !

kissing at her front door. Johnny moves his hand tenatively to Carmen 's breast.

She takes his hand, smiling, puts it under her shirt.

She puts her mouth on his and they melt together. The door flies open,

and CARMEN'S DAD stands there.

Carmen ducks inside. Her father looks Johnny over. He carries a terrible

battle scar oon his face.

Carmen's Dad reddens. He'd like to punch Johnny out.

Carmen's Dad slams the door in Johnny's face.

meet Carl in front of the induction center where a staedy flow of prospective

citizens file through the main doors.

is missing one arm. He smiles broadly at the three teenagers.

He turns in his chair to grab the forms. Johnny and his friends see that he is also

missing both legs. The Recruiting Sergeant catches them looking,

smiles even wider.

As he signs, Johnny looks at the campaign ribbons on the Recruiting Sergeant's

chest. We hear MUSIC: 	"The Mobile Infantery Anthem" plays softly in honor

of distant battles.

are routed into different lines, joining other hopeful civilians.

A COLONEL makes a speech over the loudspeaker.

and others in the line strip down. The guy in front of Johnny is

DON, 18, athletic and cheerful.

grimaces as a TECHNICIAN installs an INTERFACE PLATE on

his side, drawing fluids.

A PSYCH OFFICER sits down across from each candidate.

The Psych Officer checks Johnny's response on a meter.

is poked and prodded, subjected to aural, visual and pharmacological

stimuli, and scanned from head to toe.

sits across from a MAJOR who views a list on a monitor Johnny can't see.

The Major clucks his tongue as he highlights the last category on his list:

MOBILE INFANTERY.

Johnny swallows this. He knew it was coming. The Major deletes

"Pilot" from the list, then several other items.

He turns the monitor around and shows Johnny the list.

The only thing left is MOBILE INFANTERY.

proudly takes the Federal Service oath with about twenty-five other people,

a gleaming silver FLEET PIN on her chest. She looks around for Johnny,

sees him grinning at her.

walk out together happily, hand in hand.

Just then, Don rushes past, shamefaced, crying.

The Recruiting Sergeant is getting ready to go home. He's got legs now,

and he takes a prosthetic arm from its case and snaps it on.

He grins when he sees them staring.

Johnny holds the door for Carmen and the Recruiting Sergeant.

Suddenly Carl appears looking a little paler than usual.

are stunned.

Well, everyone's a little impressed by this.

The Recruiting Sergeant beams, offers a prosthetic hand.

Just what Johnny wanted to hear. They watch the old Sergeant walk

away.	MUSIC:	"The Mobile Infantery Theme".

Carmen takes Johnny and Carl by the arm as they walk.

stands sullenly as his Father rages at him.

Johnny turns for the door. His father throws his last shot.

walks out, grim, sees his mother, tears in her eyes.

Johnny's face reddens.

Johnny turns on his heel, heads for the transporter.		ZAPPP !

looks for Carmen among hundreds of young people bound for

Federal Service destinations. Recruits wear civilian clothes.

Everyone else is in uniform.

Now he sees her entering struggling with luggage. Johnny rushes to

help her and soon he is carrying all her bags.

At the freight station, Carmen enters her Federal I.D. card and gets

numbered tags for her bags.

Johnny loads them onto a conveyor belt.

Carmen's already moved to the next line. Johnny follows.

Carmen logs in, enters her destination:	LUNA - TERESHKOVA

FLEET ACADEMY.	The tickets station spits out a pass.

Carmen heads toward a bank of transporters. Johnny stops her,

takes her by the arms.

She scans her pass, but Johnny stops her again.

Carmen kisses him, jumps into the transporter.

ZAPPP !	The last thing he sees are her beautiful eyes.

People are doing Federal Service jobs all over the known Galaxy.

A CRIMINAL stands before a FEDERAL COURT

A Federal clinic specializing in psycic research.

A prefab township sits on the shores of a tranquil alien bay.

Then, a "You Are Here" map of the Known Universe.

Archival pictures of a captive two meter ARACHNID WARRIOR,

multiple eyes, cutting mouthparts and claws. Wary SCIENTISTS

keep their distance as it eats a COW.

Now body parts litter the ruined streets of Port Joe Smith.

is 40, astoundingly fit, and like all drill instructors, he carries a small baton.

He addresses sixty shorn RECRUITS.

Johnny stands in formation with his squad, among them:

BRECKINRIDGE, 18, DJANA'D, 19, KATRINA McINTIRE, 18, ACE LEVY,

18, SHUJUMI, 18, and KITTEN SMITH, 18.

Zim gives Kitten Smith the hairy eyeball. Smith cracks up.

Kitten Smith shake his head  "no" , but he can't stifle himself.

Kitten Smith squints. Out in the distance, a tiny building.

Zim smacks him on the leg with his baton.

Kitten Smith runs. Big CORPORAL BRONSKI, 28, takes out after

him, laying a baton across his backside every time he slows.

Zim points at the little WHITE PICKET FENCE leading to a

transporter near the front gate.

Breckinridge, a big guy from a farm planet, steps forward.

Zim crooks afinger at him. Breckinridge charges. Zim knocks

him flat. Breckinridge holds his arm, twisted now.

A MEDIC charges up, checks Breckinridge's arm, grins.

Shujumi steps up, assumes a fighting stance. Zim looks him over.

There's not not much to him. Shujumi attacks Zim, counters his

counter, dances out of range.

Now Zim attacks. Shujumi flip kicks Zim in the head.

The recruits check Ace out. Zim sweeps Shujumi's legs, puts a

knee in the little man's throat. Shujumi passes out.

tumble a brutal obstacle course using JUMP BOOTS.

Djana'd hits a tower and falls to the deck hard, dropping her rifle.

She holds her knee, hurt. Zim races over to her.

Zim begins to kick her because she doesn't move fast enough.

watch poor Kitten Smith spar with Zim. Kitten Smith whacks Zim across the jaw.

Zim doesn't even flinch.

WHAM !	Zim knocks Kitten Smith for a loop.

watches the recruits face simulated 3-D OFF-WORLD FOES. In one room,

CYCLOPS SOLDIERS of Antilles, in another, red DEATH WALKERS,

and in a third, screeching ARACHNID WARRIORS.

throws a knife, buries the point in a narrow post.

Zim yanks the knife out of the post.

Ace obeys. Zim throws, sticks his hand to the post.

Zim pays no attention to Ace who remains stuck to the post. A

recruit trots up. Johnny stares, surprised. It's Dizzy.

She snaps Zim a salute and hands him her orders.

Dizzy grins self-consciously at Johnny.

Dizzy hits the deck and starts doing push-ups, counting off as

MEDICS arrive and go to work on Ace's hand.

line up for mess piled four-square together on a single plate,

meat on the bottom, ice cream on top.

Ace cuts into the front off the mess line.

Silence. There could be a fight. Zim, standing nearby, watches

with interest. Ace opens his hand.

Ace makes a big friendly show of trading places with Johnny.

Now everyone's laughing, pushing Ace to the back of the line.

Johnny has his grub. Dizzy comes up with her tray.

Johnny turns away. Dizzy watches him go, hurt.

tumble down the difficult course in their power suits. At the head of

the pack , breathing hard, Johnny and Ace race.

They come to a trap, prepare to leap.

Dizzy jumps over them from behind. Johnny and Ace tumble into the mud.

They watch, chagrined, as Dizzy reaches the end of the course effortlessly.

enters as the recruits scrub down.

Dizzy dresses down. Johnny and all the other guys check her out.

She has a fabulous body. Dizzy cathes Johnny looking. He turns

his back as she steps into the shower next to him.

Dizzy uses her hand to divert the shower spray towards Johnny's crotch.

Everyone look down at Johnny's crotch, laughing. Johnny

blushes, grabs a towel and exits the shower.

pans the barracks with a little handcam, neat bunks in a row, other recruits

lounging around in their skivvies.

camera.

Johnny moves the camera away from the guys. Katrina walks by from the

shower with Dizzy, mugs into frame.

Johnny heads for the door.

The picture goes all screwy, comes up again on:

talk quietly now outside the barracks door.

The barracks lights go out. Taps plays over the public address.

Johnny lowers his voice.

Behind him , someone begins to sing , badly.

Ace, the singer, and the other guys peer down from the transom

over the door, giggling, delighted with themselves.

watches the end of Johnny's letter. Ace continues to sing.

The letter ends. Carmen smiles. A BALD CADET PILOT smacks her on the

arm as she runs by in a sleek blue pressure suit.

Grinning, Carmen grabs her duffel, takes off after her.

and the bald cadet race for the hatch past other recruits.

gets there first, jumps into the pilot seat. The Bald Pilot takes

second seat.

Two LATE CADETS duck in through the closing hatch door.

straeks upward from the lunar floor past orbitting training platforms where

CADETS in brightly colored pressure suits float against the Earth which

hangs beyond the horizon.

blasts past a DESTROYER orbiting in dock, zips between CORVETTES

and other slower fleet traffic in the crowded space lanes of Luna.

The two late cadets are terrified.

She points. Now visible from behind a host of smaller ships,

STARSHIP ATHENA, of older design, but impressive.

arrives on the bridge, dark, cramped, all-business. She salutes the instructor,

CAPTAIN DELADIER, 40s.

Carmen turns for her station, but stops in her tracks. Her supervisor is

Zander Barcalow, now a 2nd Lieutenant.

Carmen logs on. The ship recognizes her as a pilot trainee.

Carmen and Zander go to work.

All eyes are on carmen as she grabs the stick. The ship shudders under

her hand. She winks at Zander.

Carmen rocks the stick, and the view from the bridge spins smoothly

away from the dense orbiting yards os Luna toward the outer system.

Carmen jogs past lumbering freighters. Zander's impressed.

Space appears to bend. Zander and Carmen share a smile. They

blur together, becoming one, then:	WHAM !

disappears in a flash of blinding light.

have been divided into two teams. RED TEAM includes Ace, Katrina,

Breckinridge, and Djana'd. Johnny, Shujumi, Kitten Smith, and Dizzy

are part of BLUE TEAM.

Bronski passes out Morita SmartRifles.

bumps the magnification of her heads up display to survey Blue Team's

flag guarded by two recruits. She jumps down to joining other Red

Team members on the move.

Johnny, Kitten Smith, and Dizzy open fire from athicket as they pass.

Djana'd and the others collapse as their suits fail, Djana'd laughing

because playing at war seems funny.

opens fire as the Blue Team appears. Shujumi and other Blue Team members

go down in an ambush led by Breckinridge. Johnny dives for cover, and finds

himself sharing it with Dizzy.

Kitten Smith makes arun for the flag with a rifle team. Ace and Katrina open

fire from two new hidden Red Team positions, taking Kitten and his team

down with a cross fire.

Johnny looks at the course in a new way, nods.

Johnny tumbles open ground, vaults into the air. Dizzy takes out Breckinridge

as he rises to fire. Johnny lands, knocks out Katrina, then Ace. He picks up

Ace's fallen Morita.

watch Johnny firing both Moritas simultanously and taking out the remaining

Red Team defenders. He grabs the Red Team flag and hurls it into the air like spear.

line up in the door of a SKIMMER, the military's standard utility aircraft,

to practice drops from altitude.

Johnny jumps, plummeting toward the earth.

Next in line, Ace scowls.

have some free time. Johnny makes a big show of polishing the chevrons

that designate him as Squad Leader.

Johnny approaches Dizzy.

Dizzy smiles, shakes.

Bronski walks through with the mail.

Johnny grabs the E-disk, pops it into his handcam. The Fleet Mail logo appears:

APPROVED MESSAGE

Johnny's pals gather for a look. Carmen appears, dressed down to skivvies,

in her quarters aboard starship Athena.

Johnny holds up his squad leader chevrons victoriously.

The image changes abrupltly. Now Carmen's wearing a trim blue flight suit.

She stands the camera on Athena's gunnery deck. Outside , the rings of

Saturn sparkle in bright solar light.

Johnny is stunned. All the other recruits suddenly seem to have

something else to do.

The Fleet Mail logo appears again:	END OF MESSAGE. Johnny

shuts the handcam off. Ace puts a hand on his shoulder.

Johnny smiles in spite of himself.

Johnny turns for the door, flipping the chevrons like a coin.

Dizzy watches him leave. She'd so like to comfort him.

73	EXT	LIVE FIRE COMBAT RANGE - DAY - THE RECRUITS

arm their Marauder power suits. Zim and Bronski wear Command model suits

with rank designations. Johnny checks weapons, scans the electronics on

each squad member's power suit.

Fifty blackened AUTOMATED TARGET DRONES fitted with pulse guns

are presently visible along a gauntlet of low walls, gullies, and three-story

building facades.

On a signal from Zim, the Live Fire Combat Range comes to life

as the target drones take cover and disappear from view.

take out the target drones as they appear. Halfway through the course,

a recruit takes a hit and goes down, immobilized. Djana'd has a clear

shot, but Breckinridge gets in her way.

Before the others can react, a second drone appears.

Everyone kisses dirt. Pulses from the two drones fly thick overhead.

Shujumi rises to fire, a round slams him back to the ground.

Johnny and Djana'd knock out the two drones.

The squad resumes ist advance. Breckinridge bangs on his helmet.

There is something wrong with his "head up" display.

Breckinridge takes off helmet, hands it to Johnny. Djana'd turns on

Breckinridge. Her "head up" zeroes him.

That's when Djana'd trips on a loose stone. She fumbles her rifle and

it discharges. The round tears the top of Breckinridge's head off.

The recruits stare in horror.

Zim arrives with Bronski on the bounce.

The recruits watch Johnny leave, stare aghast at their dead comrade.

No one looks at Djana'd, who stands alone sobbing.

stands before the C.O. braced by Katrina and Ace. Zim and the C.O.  are

both saddened by the proceedings.

Zim looks out the window. Djana'd, dressed for travel, in civilian clothes,

crying as she heads off down Washout Lane.

looks out the window to the parade ground where a POST has been

erected. The recruits look up as Zim enters.

Johnny takes off his shirt. Ace who now holds the chevrons of squad

leader, watches, feels bad for his pal.

stand with recruits from other platoons. Johnny is led to the post and

strung up as the C.O. reads the charge.

Zim steps up to Johnny, offers him a red rubber mouthpiece.

Johnny takes it in his mouth. His tear away shirt is torn away. Johnny

stands at the post alone. Corporal Bronski, a big man with an unhappy

task, unrolls his whip.

CRACK !	Johnny's face wrenched by pain, spontanous tears, a terrible

sound stifled by the bright red mouthpiece.

CRACK !	Again. Dizzy flinches for Johnny.

CRACK !	Ace looks away.

CRACK !	Zim watches without any apparent emotion.

CRACK !	Johnny faints, sagging against his tether.

cruises past, 600,000 metric tons of star class destroyer, FIGHTERS

and LANDING BOATS lining her open hangar deck.

works alone on the empty bridge. She yawns. Zander brings coffee for himself

and Carmen.

He caresses her hair. She kisses his hand. Zander notices the plot map.

Zander slides into his chair, runs a check.

Zander turns his chair so they are very close, moves a finger along

her hand, up her arm and playfully around her breasts.

Carmen grabs him between his legs.

Zander pulls her to him and they kiss passionately. She brteaks it off,

gets serious for amoment.

They start to caress again when suddenly ALARMS sound. Captain

Deladier appears on the hot screen, still waking up.

Carmen and Zander frantically check their displays.

Carmen and Zander see it through the front screens:		A huge

ASTEROID tumbles directly towards them at terrific speed.

Carmen breaks glass that reads EMERGENCY RETROS, arms the switch

within and fires the rockets.

torques to one side. The asteroid grazes the ship, cutting ahuge gash

in Athena's hull. Ice and rock travelling in ist wake shreds

COMMUNICATIONS EQUIPMENT.

Zander brace themseves as diamond hard particles pound the front screens.

The ship continues to tumble.

loses it's mooring, tumbling into other craft, explosions ripping the deck.

are sucked into space. Others hang on frantically as automatic doors

seal Athena's wound and their fates.

Deladier arrives on the bridge, now crowded as other FLIGHT OFFICERS

rush to their stations. Zander's going through star charts.

Deladier notices Carmen staring at a monitor, stunned. A DEAD

CAP TROOPER trails in the wreckage of the flight deck.

wears his civilian clothes, pcks as the other recruits get ready for the

day's training. No one says anything. He moves stiffly, careful of his

back.

Corporal Bronski leans in, impassive.

A nearby VU-PHONE lights up. The screen flashes:		RINGING

His mother appears when she picks up the other end.

The screen splits as Johnny's father activates an extension.

Johnny's mother makes a face to shut him up.

The sky in Buenos Aires seems to darken perceptively. Johnny's

mother looks out the window.

The transmission ends abruptly. A phone company logo appears:

TRANSMISSION TERMINATED.

Johnny zips his duffel, hefts it gingerly over his shoulder.

Dizzy turns on her heel and marches away.

signs form 1240/A. Zim stands as witness.

Zim signs bitterly. The C.O. sighs.

The C.O. and Zim turn to other things. Johnny picks up his duffel and heads

out the door.

walks alone, sad. A skimmer hums by overhead and he looks after it.

Out across the parade ground he sees the glint of Marauder power

suits as recruits tumble the obstacle course.

reaches the little white fence that leads to the transporter. He turns

back for one last look and notices people running to the

Comminications shack. Kitten Smith runs by.

joins others to see what's on the Federal Net. Recruits, non-coms, and officers gather	without any sense of military decorum. People cry openly, among them Corporal

Bronski.

On screen, the smoldering ruins of what was once a huge city.

Johnny is horrified. Dizzy is suddenly standing next to him.

Johnny sets his jaw, turns and runs for the C.O.'s office.

and other staffers watch the grim news unfold. Animation

illustrates the insect treachery.

Zim picks up Johnny's 1240/A off the C.O.'s desk.

Zim gives the C.O. a look. The C.O. shrugs, turns away, watching the news

of the coming war. Zim tears up the 1240/A.

Actual pictures of Buenos Aires:	SURVIVORS pick through rubble,

people wail, kids play tag in the ruins.

A wounded CAP TROOPER, grim smile, flashes "V" for victory as his

weary comrades carry him off the field.

MOM smiles as her CUTE KIDS stomp insects in the garden.

FACTORY WORKERS turn out ordnance. PEOPLE line up

to enlist.

SKY MARSHALL DIENES, 72, addresses the FEDERAL COUNCIL.

The council rises to its feet for a standing ovation.

is a sprawling pre-fab structure covering several square kilometers of space

where STARSHIPS are stacked in berths.

Super title:	COUNTDOWN TO VICTORY.

follows the Net Correspondentas he works a corridor crowded with

MOBILE INFANTERY and FLEET PERSONNEL.

Newly minted cap troopres Johnny, Dizzy, Ace, and Kitten Smith happen along.

and his friends drink at a crowded bar. Around the room there's

singing and dancing, a mad sort of revelry bred of fear and

excitement, but nearby a VETERAN drinks alone.

He's hard and humorless, all wised up. Ace admires his LASER CUT TATTOOS.

Dizzy eyes his skull and crossbone earring.

The veteran pays his tab and heads out.

Johnny looks up and sees Carmen. She lloks graet in uniform with

the hat and the lieutenant's bars on her shoulders.

Johnny remembers himself, snaps to attention, salutes. Dizzy and the others

follow suit. Carmen salutes back, sheepish.

Dizzy, disgusted, turns back to Ace and Kitten Smith. Carmen tucks her hat

under her arm. Her hair is very short.

Carmen shakes her head, sadly.

Zander leaves a group of FLEET OFFICERS to join them.

Zander puts his arm around Carmen, gives her a squeeze.

Johnny turns to leave.

Johnny turns back to face Zander.

Everyone can see what's about to happen. A circle is forming,

Fleet on one side, Mobile Infantery on the other.

Zander takes off his hat.

WHAM !	Johnny punches him right in the nose. Zander goes down,

bleeding. Ace and Kitten Smith grab Johnny.

Zander staggers to his feet, ready to fight, but Fleet Officers pull him

back. Carmen looks at Johnny, the hate in his eye, the blood on his fist.

Carmen turns away, stung. Johnny immediately regrets. Dizzy,

for her part, couldn't be happier.

grinds his teeth as a laser mounted on a robot arm finishes slicing an

intricate pattern into his arm.

Dizzy, Ace, and Kitten Smith awtch, grinning, passing a bottle.

Ace pours booze directly into the fresh wound.

They put their arms side by side. Each has a similiar scar:

Lightning bolts on a shield and the words:	DEATH FROM ABOVE.

of every class maneuver in tight orbit around the orange planet.

The "Mobile Infantery Anthem" plays loke Holst, pounding and

relentless. The invasion has begun !

and his platoon, wearing fully armed MARAUDER POWER SUITS,

wait to drop with other cap troopers. Their mood is grim.

LIEUTENANT WILLY, 35, easy-going and confident, enters.

Everyone snaps to attention.

This does nothing to break the tension. Lt. Willy reassures.

There are none.

The briefingplays on "head up" displays and the ready room screens. A

captive BUG WARRIOR clicks and shrieks as FEDERAL SCIENTISTS

torture it. The troopers cheer.

The head scientists turns and speaks to camera. It's Carl.

Johnny and Dizzy share an amazed grin, noticing a difference in

their old friend, something that speaks of... authority.

Carl picks up apulse gun and blows one of the bugs legs off.

The insect screams.

Carl fires again. The bug kicks and squeals as it dies.

Carl tosses the pulse gun aside.

The briefing ends as klaxons sound.

Johnny and the other troopers climb into capsules on the port track.

Dizzy gives him "thumbs up". The capsule seals as it moves with

the others down the firing tube.

gets the shakes as the capsule bumps and booms toward the firing

tube. Lt. Willy appears on the "head up" display.

Sweat rolls down his face, hyperventilation... WHAM !

stream toward Klendathu from the rear tubes starships of Bull Run.

We move down the line past Mannerheim, Dauntless, George Marshall,

and Yamamoto to the Rodger Young.

holds Rodger Young in tight maneuver. Suddenly, a burst of BLUE BUG PLASMA

rips past the starboard bow.

Two more bursts of bug plasma streak past.

burn when they hit atmosphere, outer skin tearing away in big silver sheets.

takes in ENTRY DATA from the heads up display.

watches nervously as deadly bursts of bug plasma fill the heavens around the

battle group. Below, the surface of Klendathu fairly bistles with outgoing

defensive fire.

Out the front screens, a blast from below hits George Marshall amidships

and it reels into Yamamoto. Both starships begin to burn.

Carmen dodges past burning ships, avoids collision with Dauntless,

and then KA-WHAM !	they're hit. Carmen flies out of her

station and into CAMERA hard.

tears away. Johnny is sitting on air.

The chute pops. Across the sky, lit by outgoing bug plasma, he can see hundreds

of cap troopers in ordered rows drifting down into the cloud layer.

It's quiet in the clouds, then:

looks down as he passes out of the clouds and sees the battlefield.

Plasma blasts exploode into the sky. THOUSANDS OF BUGS boil

out of the ground to defend against the invader.

Johnny burns his chute off, drops the last hundred feet and lands

on the bounce.

of bug batteries, screaming voices on the com, concussions shaking the ground.

None of it compares to the sound of his own racing HEARTBEAT.

Lieutenant Willy shouts.

A HOPPER (an airborne Arachnid warrior with powerful rear legs and "pop out"

wings for gliding) lands on Lieutenant Willy and cracks his head like a nut.

Johnny and Ace open fire, backing away. Pulse rounds tear it apart, bug guts

gushing.

Now comes a flood of WORKERS building ever advancing fortifications,

and with them, hundreds of deadly ARACHNID WARRIORS.

Dizzy and the others open fire simultanously. The whole area goes white hot

in the magnesium flash of so many pulse cannons. Shujumi fires wildly at

advancing insects.

Shujumi can't hear. A warrior finds him, rips his leg off, hurls him back

into the waiting jaws of the oncoming bugs.

He fights, screaming. A claw reaches for his face, ripping the top of his head off.

Now the ground opens behind her and a huge (6 meters) TANKER BUG

lumbers out of the ground, it's funnel-shaped snout extruding above

multiple eyes.

The tanker bug sprays and hits Katrina. She screams, as her legs melt out

from under her.

Warriors converge to feed on her. Ace wants to help her, but Johnny blocks him.

and the other survivors on the bounce. The entire surface of Klendathu seems

to be churning with insects as more and more bugs come to the surface to

repel the invasion.

They come to the rear lines where the Net Correspondent and his

CAMERAMAN are doing live coverage of the invasion.

The Correspondent is cut in half by a warrior. Johnny blows it away.

The cap troopers move out. Kitten Smith looks up as a purple beacon

A hopper pounces on Kitten Smithm, and he goes down screaming.

Johnny touches down, stares in horror as Kitten Smith's head rolls past his

fee. Johnny opens up with his pulse cannon. The hopper attacks, puts a claw

right through Johnny's thigh.

Crushing jaws close around him, crushing, cutting his flesh. Johnny brings the muzzle

of the pulse gun under the hopper's nerve stem and SPLAT !	blows its head apart.

But Dizzy can't find Johnny, and soon she's lost in the smoke. Johnny looks

down at the terrible hole in his leg where bright arterial blood gushes.

Now two more Arachnid warriors close in on him through the enveloping

smoke. He fires his pulse rifle empty, and dropping it, crawls desperately,

dragging his useless leg.

A third Arachnid warrior rears up in front of him, deadly jaws slashing down

toward him, when suddenly it is blown to pieces in the blinding blast of a

point-blank pulse cannon.

Johnny reaches out. A STEEL HAND takes his, dragging him back as bugs

attack. His rescuers's pulse cannon thunders overhead. Bug parts fly as

insects swarm in for the kill.

Actual pictures of the battlefield, man and insect lying dead together on the blood

drenched plains of Klendathu.

bfore a gathering of the Federal Council.

FEDERAL SCIENTISTS display an organizational chart of the

Arachnid species topped by a QUESTION MARK.

Names scroll by designated KIA, WIA, and MIA accordingly.

limps to port, a huge chunk ripped out of its mid-section. Although stable,

she flies inverted.

CARMEN

stare at the BATTLE-SCARED STARSHIPS and BURNT-OUT HULKS that line the

docks of Ticonderoga.

A bloody bandage wraps Carmen's head. Zander nods grimly.

of CREWMEN and CAP TROOPERS are being off-loaded via conveyer belt.

Zander and Carmen make their way up the steep companionway beside the

ghastly conveyer belt.

Carmen takes his hand. Zander kisses her.

Carmen lets his hand go and leaps through the hatch. Zander falls back

onto the conveyer belt, finds himself eyeball-to-eyeball with a horribly

maimed trooper, scrambles to get off.

joins Carmen in the crowded common area where dead bodies compete for space

with wounded awaiting triage. Survivors watch casualty lists scroll ba on a

Federal Net terminal.

Carmen looks at the words at the Net terminal: WOULD YOU LIKE TO KNOW

MORE ? She bites her lip, enters Johnny's name. In an instant, she has the news:

RICO, JOHN D. - KIA

Tears fill her eyes.

She rushes away. Zander looks at Johnny's name on the screen, shrugs, presses

the ERASE button.

finds Carmen, sagging against a wall, weepimg.

Zander puts an arm around her. She holds on tight.

Zander kisses her hair. Tears roll down her face.

Zander holds Carmen as she sobs, feeling lucky.

120	INT	STASIS TANK - DAY CYCLE - JOHNNY'S BODY

floats, suspended in fluid, mouth hanging open, his skin white as death.

A low underwater KNOCKING wakes him. He opens his eyes and sees

Ace and Dizzy outside the tank.

Ace holds up a KIA list, pointing at Johnny's name, laughing: Rico, John V - KIA.

Their voices are distant and garbled. Dizzy cups her hands against the side of the

tank.

Johnny's wounds are now mostly scars except for his leg where delicate robotic

arms culture layers of new tissue. Johnny gives a weak thumbs up. The knocking

sound continues.

Johnny turns. A STEEL HAND taps the side of the tank. Johnny grins, astonished.

The man wearing it is his former high school teacher, now a Lieutenant, Jean Rasczak.

consisting of STARSHIPS, their tender, FREIGHTERS and other SUPPLY CRAFT.

stows his gear along with Ace and Dizzy. Acroos the room, a collection of

battle-hardened vets check out the newcomers.

They size up the Roughnecks. There are scars, power prosthetics, and one,

big SUGAR WATKINS, 26, wears a bug claw on a chain around his neck.

CORPORAL BIRDIE, 24, turns, gives Johnny the once over.

Dizzy looks her over. Not too big, but she's tough.

Birdie belts him, and Ace goes down.

Ace jumps up, ready to fight, but other Roughnecks block him.

Johnny and Dizzy shrug. Ace's on his own.

SERGEANT GILLESPIE, 28, steps into the room.

Everyone snaps to. Rasczak enters.

He points at Johnny's earring with his steel hand.

The Roughnecks cheer. Rasczak smiles vaguely.

stand sentry on earthworks that tower the entrance to their colony where an

endless line of WORKERS enter bearing foodstuff appropriate to this exotic

jungle planet.

A distant sound. A warrior looks up, curious. Suddenly a FORMATION OF TAC

FIGHTERS screams down from high orbit and a white hot nuclear firestorm burns

consumes the landscape.

Bugs scream as they twist and kick in the wall of flame. Heat melts the dirt into

dark glass. Ash turns the sky red. The out of the smoke come Rasczak and his

Roughnecks.

streak by overhead. On the ground, Johnny, Dizzy and Ace are on the bounce.

Ace spots a bug hole where workers and warrors have broken through the

glassed surface.

Rockets take out warriors. Bug guts go flying. Dizzy sets workers on fire.

Johnnx and Ace step over burning bug carcasses to the rim of the hole and

fire their gas rounds.

Johnny drops an H.E. round, and they're in the air when the explosion collapses

the entrance to the bug city.

boil out of the ground. Birdie, Sugar Watkins and other Roughnecks are about to be

overrun when Johnny touches down wuth Ace and Dizzy.

The cao troopers let the bugs have it, but the insects keep coming, the living

crawling over the dead, and now, trudging up out of the ground, comes a

TANKER BUG.

The tanker bug starts to spray, creating a toxic perimeter around the hole.

Rasczak arrives just as Birdie takes a chemical hit, falling to ground minus

an arm, screaming.

Johnny jumps, landing behind the tanker bug in the mouth of the hole. It turns

with surprising speed. Johnny flips up onto its back, cracks its armor with his

pulse cannon.

Rasczak and Sugar Watkins pull Birdie to safety. Johnny fires a rocket into

the hole he's made in the tanker bug's back, and jumps clear. KA-WHAP !

The big bug explodes.

The Roughnecks fire gas rockets into the bug hole. Johnny touches down

beside Rasczak.

Rasczak turns away, gives Birdie prosthetic thumps up as she is carried past

to meet an arriving skimmer.

Dizzy and Ace gather around Johnny, clap him on the back.

Tac Fighters reel by over head. WOMP ! Suddenly, BUG PLASMA shoots skyward

from the flatlands below. Several Tac Fighters are blown out of the air.

Flaming debris rains down.

Roughnecks head out on the bounce.

and the others look down a sheer cliff on the bug battery, a charred circular

pit some ten meters across. Inside, something is moving.

Johnny jumps the magnification on his "head up". Down in the pit, a giant

translucent PLASMA BUG rears out of one of the subterranean tunnels

that ring the battery.

Johnny shakes his head. Swollen BREEDER BUGS gather around the

plasma bug to inject it with their catalytic jelly.

The plasma bug writhes in pain and begins to swell, color changing from

yellow to blue in accordance with some violent internal chemical reaction.

WOMP ! The plasma bug explodes in its cauldron. A blast of bug plasma

streaks past them towards the heavens. Now a new plasma bug crawls into

the pit to begin the cycle anew.

Sergeant Gillespie points. A hole opens near the battery and dozens of warriors

rampage out of the ground and up the cliff face toward the Roughneck position.

Rasczak moves off down the line giving orders.

Dizzy activates a tactical nuke. It makes a distinctive HIGHPITCHED SQUEAL.

The Roughnecks open fire. Bugs are blown to pieces but they keep climbing. A

warrior breeches their line. Sugar Watkins torches it. The nuke's ready light flashes.

Johnny blows a warrior away from the edge. Dizzy leans over and fires. The rocket

streaks down toward the battery.

An explosion in the two kiloton range turns the world black and white. When color

returns Johnny and the others look down on the smoldering crater which was once the

bug battery.

fight their way down gassed-out tunnels into bug city. They meet warrors at

every turn and kill them. Helmet lamps make weird shadows of dead bugs

piled everywhere along the way.

Johnny joins Rasczak, Ace and Dizzy and they blow away several warriors

guarding the entrance of a large chamber.

are eight meters long with corpulent bodies and tiny heads. Only one survives,

and though she is herself dying, her abdomen, rippled by life within, continues to

undulate.

Johnny signals. Dizzy's pulse cannon rips open the dying queen. Thousands of

wriggling premature bugs come spilling out. Horrified, knee-deep Roughnecks

set them afire.

unload PRE-FAB BARRACKS from HERCULES CARGO BOATS.

Roughnecks eat. Rasczak stands, banging a spoon on his mess kit.

Roughnecks cheer. Rasczak kicks open a CARGO MODULE. Beer kegs

rool out. He kicks open a second module. Inside, musical instruments.

Ace picks up a violin.

leads a little quartet, plays a sweet fiddle. Roughnecks laugh and dance.

Dizzy tries to pull Johnny into the fun.

Dizzy heads back to the others. Johnny turns and finds Rasczak regarding him

with an odd, sad smile.

Gillespie appears.

Rasczak heads away. Johnny joins Dizzy.

Johnny takes her hand, bows implishly.

He pulls her out among the others and they begin to dance. Ace watches

with a grin, puts some spirit in his fiddle.

is in holo conference with an INTELLIGENCE OFFICER

The Intelligence Officer reddens.

The Intelligence Officer disappears abruptly. A new hologram appears.

Rasczak's jaw drops. It's his former student Carl Jenkins, now a Colonel,

weary and pissed off.

Rasczak recovers, salutes stiffly.

are making love. The door pops open. Rasczak stands there. Dizzy ducks under

the covers. Johnny manages a salute.

Dizzy shows herself, grinning.

Rasczak slams the door shut on them. They fall back into one anothers arms,

laughing as they resume lovemaking.

move through canyons of towering wind-carved rock formations.

Gillespie carries the communications package.

walk in a column far below. Something is watching from the above... HOPPERS,

lots of them, moving from rock to rock for better position.

sees something out of the corner of his eye.

The hoppers hit. Several Roughnecks go down. Everyone opens up.

Dive-bombing bugs are blown to bits. Roughnecks set them on fire

when they hit the ground.

A burning bug hurls itself at Johnny. Johnny jumps out of the way as

Dizzy fires, blowing it apart. The deadly hoppers seem to be everywhere

above them in the rocks.

move out into the open. In the distance they see 4th Brigade HQ, a walled

compound and partially constructed landing pad.

Two hoppers are pulling Gillespie up into the rocks where other bugs

join to feast.

Dizzy tosses her Morita to Rasczak. Gillespie writhes in the hopper's

claws. Rasczak fires, killing Gillespie.

Johnny and the others cover the Roughneck retreat as hoppers soar down

on the flat lands from the canyon walls.

Johnny and the others blast bugs out of the air.

A second wave of hoppers come in.

For now, the sky is clear.

is 50 meters by 100, standard issue pre-fab. The Roughnecks land on the

compound wall. Inside, WORKER BUGS graze on the remains of 200

dead cap troopers strewn over the complex.

Rasczak turns away. Roughnecks engage in the sport of methodically

killing the workers.

surveys the aftermath of the last stand with Rasczak, insect and human dead

everywhere.

enter the radio room. A DEAD MAJOR is slumped over the console with

hole in the back of his head. Johnny checks the equipment.

It' dead, too.

Dizzy goes to work. Rasczak checks the wound in the back of the dead major's

head.

in the middle of the floor is surrounded by carnage.

Then they hear a sound. Tap tap tap. Rasczak signals for quiet. Tap tap tap tap.

It's coming from the kitchen.

enter cautiously. The noise is coming from a freezer. Ace stands ready to fire.

Johnny levers open the door, jumps back as GENERAL OWEN, 60, tumbles out

face first.

Roughnecks prop him up. General Owen tries to talk, but no words come out.

Rasczak bends down to listen.

The old man grins, hugely relieved.

help the old General, now wrapped in a blanket, rambling.

Dizzy lokks up from where she is working on the radio controls.

He points at the hole of the dead major's head.

Rasczak's lost interest in the general. He's on the com.

Rasczak looks at General Owen with contempt.

An explosion in the mess hall closes the bug hole.

blinks as he steps out into the light. Roughnecks snap to attention.

General Owen looks at the carnage that was once his command and

begins to keen, collapsing to his knees.

The Roughnecks are shocked. They've never seen a general break down before.

Lieutenant Rasczak slaps Owen hard.

And it looks like Rasczak just might, but just then Ace touches down

next to Johnny and Rasczak.

and Johnny join other stunned Roughnecks to see THOUSANDS OF BUGS on

the march from every direction. Bug batteries open up in the distance.

Johnny runs for the communications room.

has the board up. Outside the battle has begun. Nukes go WOMP ! and

pulse guns chatter.

Johnny races out the door.

is white hot as Roughnecks on the walls unload nukes. Johnny crosses

the compound, lands next to Rasczak on the wall.

The Roughnecks stop firing as they run out of nukes.

Johnny scans the battlefield. Nukes have turned the surface into dark glass.

Now, out of the smoke, come the bugs, steaming glass cracking beneath

millions of marching feet.

Sugar Watkins sees Genera Owen in the compound below,

stumbling aimlessly among his dead soldiers.

Hoppers sweep into the compound. The Roughnecks open fire. General Owen

make easy pickings for ones that get through.

Dizzy arrives on thr bounce as the Roughnecks fall back into the compound.

Bugs pile in over the walls. The circle affords them 360 degrees of kill zone.

Rasczak, Sugar Watkins, Johnny and Dizzy stand back-to-back in the center

of the circle, sweeping the skies with the heavy guns from the towers.

Hoppers are blown to pieces.

Johnny looks up. A RETRIEVAL BOAT hurtles down through bursts of

bug plasma, takes a grazing hit, rights itself with retros and lands within

the circle. Roughnecks cheer, saved !

Roughnecks move to protect the boat. The hatch blows open.

Dead bugs ring the compound walls, forming ramps for living insect

soldiers to enter the compound in greater numbers.

The circle shrinks as Roughnecks fall back and board the boat.

More and more bugs pile in over the compound walls.

Suddenly, the ground collapses under Rasczak. He falls in to his waist,

vomits blood as something chews on him from below.

Ace and the others fire from the boat. Johnny and Dizzy fire at the ground

around Rasczak. Rasczak stops screaming. They try to pull him free.

The compund wall collapses. A wave of bugs charges in.

Weakly, Rasczak picks up his pulse gun, checks the power.

Johnny and Dizzy run for the boat. Rasczak opens fire, picking his shots,

but soon the bugs are all over him.

At the boat, Dizzy turns to look back at Rasczak. A hopper swoops

down on Dizzy, it's claws ripping into her abdomen.

Johnny blows the bug off her back. Blood sprays from a deep gash in

her neck. Johnny picks her up, tries to stop the blood with his hand.

The life is leaving her eyes.

A TANKER BUG breaches the broken wall. Ace jumps out to help his

friends. The hatch closes just as the tanker bug sprays. The boat blasts

off, dripping metal.

holds Dizzy in his arms, drenched in her blood, fighting G-forces as the

boats heads for orbit.

MEDICS push Johnny aside, go to work on Dizzy.

slams into the cockpit. Out the front screen, violent bursts of BUG PLASMA

fill the sky as they break atmosphere.

The co-pilot turns around. It's Zander. His eyes narrow.

The pilot turns around. It's Carmen.

Johnny leaves. Carmen punches up Fleet Command.

returns to Dizzy's side as the medics struggle to save her. Blood pours

out of her mouth. Her body thrashes.

Dizzy dies. A Medic slaps her. Her head lolls, mouth open, eyes blank.

They drop her and move on to the next casualty. Johnny sits there,

stunned. Carmen enters from the cockpit.

She points out for a viewing port. Johnny looks. Fifteen battle groups,

100 ships strong, lay off Planet P, all of them dwarfed by the Sky

Marshall's flagship, Buenos Aires.

Carmen touches the scar over her eye.

lands on the flight deck of the Rodger Young in the midst of the

flotilla.

enters, watches Carmen dress. She hums as she checks herself in the

mirror, touches thr scar over her eye, smiles.

enters as Johnny speaks. Dizzy is laid out in dress gray. The surviving

Roughnecks have gathered to pay final respects.

Several INTELLIGENCE OFFICERS march into the bay.

Everyone snaps to attention. Colonel Carl Jenkins strides into the room.

His eyes are hollow, and he looks grim. He returns Johnny's salute,

nods to Carmen.

Johnny nods to the GUNNERY CREW. They load Dizzy's body into a

tube. Johnny steps back, salutes Dizzy. Everyone salutes.

The CREW CHIEF fires the tube. Out the viewports, A PULSE OF LIGHT

disperses into space. The Roughnecks file out. Carl approaches.

Carmen takes Johnny and Carl by the hand.

Carl sees the way Carmen is looking at him, like he's a bug.

Carl allows himself a tiny smile.

KLAXONS sound. Suddenly, everyone has someplace to go.

Carl turns abruptly and heads away. His entourage follows.

steps onto the bridge. There's a new NUMBER 2 sitting in Zander's chair.

She's right out of Tereshkova, and she looks scared.

Carmen turns to Captain Deladier.

Carmen bites her lip, takes first chair. Deladier feels bad for her, knows

she's made a painful decision.

are suiting up. Ace enters.

Roughnecks fall in. Johnny steps into the room. There are many new and

much younger faces.

have landed. Cap troopers set fire to huge piles of dead bugs. BULLDOZERS

push bodies into a mass grave, among them Rasczak.

Johnny walks past with his team.

Roughnecks boo.

A HERCULES CARGO BOAT hurtles out of the sky and lands on the high

ground Johnny has intended forb his H.Q. Johnny scowls, marches over

to the boat and confronts a FLEET OFFICER.

The cargo bays open to deploy FLEET SKIMMERS. Zander jumps down

to oversee the operation.

Suddenly, in the distance, bug batteries open fire, not one but twenty.

Zander and Johnny share a look of concern.

begins to take a toll on the battle group as the orbiting ships lay their eggs.

Cap Troopers are scliced as they drop.

turns to Carmen.

Carmen dodges other starships, turns to her new number 2.

KA-WHAM ! The Rodger Young takes a direct hit.

is cut in two. The rear section explodes, the forward section begins to burn towards

the bridge.

calmy evacuates the bridge. Power fails and so does the gravity.

and Captain Deladier run for the lifepods. An explosion flips the corridor.

Captain Deladier's leg is crushed when an airlock closes on her.

Carmen hits the release, pulls her free. Deladier pushes Carmen away.

pushes into the chaotic life pod bay. PANICKED CREW shoving, screaming,

fighting. The ship pitches. They tumble, landing near a pod. Carmen jumps

for it, pulls Deladier in after.

disintegrates as lifepods shoot away toward the planet.

navigates through a graveyard of floating wreckage, dead cap troopers,

someone's trombone. She sets her beacon and the pod plummets

downward.

board the Skimmers. Zander approaches Johnny, upset.

Johnny's face falls.

Zander points. Far in the distance, a glowing pod plummets toward the planet.

Johnny tracks it on his "head up".

is shaken violently as the pod hits atmosphere.

hits and goes straight through the crust of Planet P.

comes to rest. Carmen blows the hatch, pulls Deladier out, grabs a Morita

pulse rifle. Tunnels lead in every direction.

grabs the handset from Ace.

sees a warrior coming at her from out of the shadows. Carmen fires a burst

and kills it. Now there are two. Carmen backs up firing, but there are

too many.

They have her. She puts the barrel of the Morita in her mouth, but a claw

cut her trigger finger off at the knuckle.

and Zander are horrified by what they hear.

Johnny knows it's true, swallows bitterly, turns away. That's when he sees it.

Nearby, the ground shifts, a claw breaks through, a hole opens up and bugs

boil up out of the ground.

They turn and see a second bug hole open up.

The entire area underneath the base camp collapses to form a huge new

canyon. The Hercules boat topples, crushing Skimmers and unfortunate

Fleet personnnel.

and the surviving Roughnecks pick themselves up. The are now 30 meters

below the planet's surface. Above them, bugs line the wide rim of the

newly formed canyon.

Through the dust, exposed bug tunnels can be seen in the canyon walls and

piling out of them by the score, deadly Arachnid warriors. Johnny throws

Zander a pulse cannon.

The Roughnecks open fire at the charging bug horde. Warriors are blown to

pieces. Gas grenades fly and H.E. rounds close tunnels. A maimed warrior

gets through and heads for Zander.

Johnny and Ace team up to blow it away. Zander takes a deep breath,

loos around, impressed. The Roughnecks have killed a great many bugs.

Sugar Watkins tosses a bloody jump boot his way.

Ace points out a Tanker bug that's been brough up to the rim.

Johnny sees another.

Johnny chews on this.

Zander, awkward in a power suit, confronts Johnny.

Johnny and Zander stare each other down.

Johnny starts for the gaping mouth of an exposed bug tunnel and

the others fall in behind him.

leads his deadly force through enemy territory. The Roughnecks kill

everything that gets in their way. Zander lends his inexperienced hand.

Warriors appear in the tunnel behind them.

Sugar Watkins fires an H.E. round and seals the tunnel.

opens her eyes. She can hear BUGS CLICKING. She's in a pit filled

with human dead. A nearby carcass wears a uniform from 4th Brigade

Off in the dark she hears HUMAN MOANING.

She crawls over rotting corpses toward the sound. The moaning turns

to SCREAMING. It's coming from outside the pit. She pulls herself

up to peer over the edge.

sees hundred of bugs at work, WARRIORS, WORKERS and dozens of

small (2 meters) CHARIOT BUGS. Aworker walks pas, stepping on her,

but pays her no attention.

She sees the source of the screaming:	Captain Deladier is hold

between two warriors, and she's screaming because of what she sees,

The BRAIN BUG is huge (5 meters) and pulpy. I has vestigial legs that

cannot support ist weight, and so it must be moved by a shifting carpet of

chariot bugs.

A thorn-like PALP unfolds out of the brain bug and strikes, driving deep into

Deladier's head and sucks her brains out.

Carmen watches horrified as Deladier dies. The suddenly a warrior grabs her

from above and drags her out of the pit. She screams as its claws slice into

her limbs.

Now the brain bug comes for her. She sees the palp unfold, the thorn-like

spike coming toward her. Carmen is no longer looking for escape.

All she wants to do is die.

Suddenly, every bug in the chamber stops as though to listen. Carmen hears it.

A HIGH-PITCHED SQUEAL, getting louder.

Johnny enters the chamber alone.

The warriors move toward him. He holds up a NUKE, source of the high-pitched

tone. The ready light flashes. The Brain Bug emits a series of harsh clicks.

The warriors freeze.

Johnny makes an explosive sound. The Brain Bug slowly withdraws its palp.

Johnny moves toward Carmen. The Brain Bug's multiple eyes track him.

The warriors holding Carmen threaten. Johnny turns on the brain bug,

his finger on the nuke's trigger.

The Brain Bug clicks. The warriors back off. Carmen collapses.

Johnny reaches for her.

Chariot bugs move the Brain Bug down a hole. Workers seal the hole

behind it with amazing speed. Johnny drags Carmen back toward the

tunnel he entered from. The warriors charge.

Johnny throws himself on top of Carmen as the Roughnecks burst into

the chamber, guns blazing. The fight is furious, point blank, deadly to

bug and Roughneck alike.

Sugar Watkins screams as a warrior rips his arm off. Zander takes a

claw through the gut.

He blows it away, sees his intestines hanging out of the wound, shoves

them back inside and keeps on fighting. A warrior rears up over Johnny

and Carmen.

Ace throws him a Morita. Johnny catches it, pumps three rounds into the

bug's nerve stem. He struggles out from under the dead warrior.

Every bug in the chamber is dead.

Carmen throws her arms around Johnny.

Zander takes this in. Carmen sees him, then his wound.

Ace takes a look at his wound, makes a face.

Zander pushes him away, struggles to his feet.

Various components are gladly passed forward. Johnny and Ace

help her putting it on.

double-time it, racing for the surface. They come to a fork.

The tunnel floor drops out. FIVE ROUGHNECKS disappear into the hole.

WARRIORS climb up into the tunnel.

The Roughnecks bachk up fast, shooting. Zander staggers, collapses.

Johnny drops to his side, rolls him over.

Johnny sees warriors coming up into the tunnel by the score.

Zander checks his pulse cannon's available power.

Johnny nods, hands him the nuke. Carmen sees what's happening.

He grabs her and kisses her. Johnny drags Carmen away. Zander opens

fire as the first warriors reach his position.

race desperately for the surface. They hear the chatter of Zander's pulse cannon

and the screams of dying bugs.

Tears stream down from Carmen's face.

and the surviving Roughnecks make it to the surface. 	WOMP !

A subterrenean nuclear explosion blows a column of earth and stone

into the air.

and the others enter A Company's perimeter. No one notices their arrival

because everyone's gathered in a big circle watching the Brain Bug.

Several of its delicate legs were apparently broken during the capture.

Carl approaches it without fear, puts his hand on the thing.

Carl smiles in a cruel way.

Johnny and Carmen approach the General.

