FINAL MOVIE SCRIPT

** Resized to fit on minimal number of pages**

[Showing Pictures of City Life]

EXT. DOCK - CARGO BAY - DAWN

Ray (in his 30s, short hair, rough groomed, almost always wears

his New York baseball cap, raggedly dressed, looks like he hasn't

slept in days) is moving cargo boxes from the ship to ground

loading brackets. Shots show him inside the control room operating

the levers. As the last car is loaded, he is seen walking down

the stairs.

Ray turns away and laughs because he already knows what he is

going to say.

Camera follows them walking down the street.

Sal stops on one side of the street while Ray continues walking.

EXT. RAY'S CAR - DRIVEWAY - DAWN

Ray gets out and takes the last can of trash to the street as

Tim (in his 30s, wearing expensive clothes, slicked sharp hair,

extremely well groomed, looks like (and is) rich) and Ray's ex-wife

Mary Ann (in her 30s, pregnant with maternity clothes on, hair

hanging loose and rather unkempt) stand at their new car. Robbie

(15, ragged, tough look, long hair, partially groomed, worn clothes

(but looks in style), hip side pack with misc. objects in it.)

and Rachel (10, still dressed in Barbie color scheme clothing,

long unkempt hair in pigtails) are in the car.

Robbie gets out of the car, carelessly banging the door on the

electrical pole. He is listening to his MP3 player at a loud

enough volume for the camera (10' away to hear).

Robbie ignores him as if he was not there and heads up to the

front door of the house.

Mary Ann nods "yes" as Rachel gets out of the car.

Rachel gives him a hug and goes back to the car to retrieve her

bag. She struggles and Mary Ann, Tim, and Ray try to help which

results in a small bicker argument. (Ray, Tim, and Mary Ann add

lib.)

INT. RAY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAWN

Mary Ann, Rachel, Ray, and Tim walk into the kitchen as Robbie

heads straight upstairs to his room. Mary Ann sees a car engine

next to the kitchen table and looks at Ray in disgust.

Mary Ann walks over to the refrigerator to check for the basic

food supplies. Ray gets frustrated that she is going through

HIS stuff.

Mary Ann ignores his comment as she opens the refrigerator which

is almost empty.

Shot of Rachel, intensely listening from the stairs.

Ray tries to further rid of her but she continues.

Ray gets his door closed as Mary Ann goes into Rachel and Robbie's

room.

INT. RAY'S HOUSE - RACHEL AND ROBBIE'S ROOM - DAWN

Mary Ann and Ray go into the room where Robbie is laying on his

bed listening to his MP3 player. Rachel sits down on her bed.

Mary Ann walks over to Robbie on his bed and grabs his MP3 player.

She un-plugs the headphones and the music stops. Ray sits down

on a desk chair.

Mary Ann looks at Robbie who promptly says...

Mary Ann kisses him.

Mary Ann hugs Rachel and promptly notices...

INT Ray's House - Walking Down Stairs - Dawn

Mary Ann opens door and proceeds to walk out the door. She stops

to say...

Mary Ann leaves.

INT Ray's House - Rachel and Robbie's Room - Dawn

Robbie is watching the TV stories about lighting storms in other

parts of the world. Channel changes ever few seconds. Ray turns

off the TV and throws Robbie's baseball mitt at him. He catches

it and says...

EXT. RAY'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAWN

Robbie throws ball at Ray unexpectedly who catches it just barely

and comments...

During next lines (until noted) they throw the ball back and

fourth.

Ray throws the ball at Robbie hard enough to knock dust off his

mitt. Robbie shakes his hand in his mitt and grits his teeth

in pain.

Ray throws the ball and Robbie purposely misses, shattering a

window behind him. Robbie turns his hat backwards and walks up

the stairs back into the house. Ray stares at Rachel who stares

back.

INT. RAY'S HOUSE - RAY'S ROOM - DAWN

Ray takes off his shirt, seems to loose his cap with it, and

takes off his boots as he gets in his bed and goes to sleep.

INT Ray's House - Living room -  Day

Rachel is flipping TV channels as Ray walks down the hall after

his nap. He sits down and sees Rachel picking at a splinter.

Rachel has his hard hat on.

Rachel shows him but doesn't let him touch it for fear he may

pull it out. Rachel and Ray ad lib as she stops moving it and

he looks at it.

Ray takes a bite of the food sitting on the coffee table in front

of him, having no idea what it is.

Ray gives Rachel a "this is gross" look and she gawks at him.

EXT Ray's House - Front Driveway - Day

He glances at his open garage door with the car that should have

been in it. He runs across the street to search for his car.

As he sees everyone else looking at the sky, he looks himself

to find a large black cloud with a white hole in the middle of

it. The cloud is swirling as if it was being artificially turned.

(continuous) EXT Ray's House - Back Yard - Day

Ray runs by the fence to his back yard. As he runs, the wind

starts to pick up. 30-40 mph.

Winds pick up faster. 40-50 mph.

The friend's baby starts to cry...

BAM!! BAM!! BAM!!! LIGHTNING hits the ground more rapidly and

louder now. Rachel and Ray run towards the eves of the house.

BAM! The lighting continues. BAM!

Ray begins singing as... BAM!! The LIGHTNING gets even louder

and scares the both of them enough to hightail it for the house.

BAM!!! Half the car alarms go off in a 10 block radius. BAM!!

Another few car alarms go off. BAM!!! Louder and louder the LIGHTNING

continues.

INT Ray's House - Kitchen - Day

Ray and Rachel are running as fast as they can up the stairs

into the kitchen. BAM!! The lighting continues again and makes

Rachel scream.

BAM!! It hits again and makes Ray jump.

They both get under the table for safety as the LIGHTING continues.

They both begin panicking. BAM!! BAM!! BAM!! The LIGHTNING goes

on with no apparent end. Ray and Rachel both scurry on the floor

under the table as the lighting goes on.

BAM! The lighting continues.

Pan out from under the table as the lightning subsides and all

is silent.

Ray remains speechless as he is fixated on the area where the

lightening came from. Ray climbs out from under the table to

get an idea of what just happened.

Ray walks around to various parts of the kitchen to see if everything

is okay. The power is off. After saying "just wait here" he then

walks into the living room. Nothing in the living room has power.

He checks his phone which doesn't work. He tries his cell phone

which also appears to not work at all. He sees his watch which

has also stopped working.

EXT. RAY'S HOUSE - BACK YARD AREA - EVENING

Pan left to see the storm cloud still lighting up in some spots.

EXT. RAY'S HOUSE - FRONT STREET - EVENING

Ray walks down the stairs to see that nobody else has power and

for some reason all the cars seem to have just stopped working.

By now we get the picture (EMP). He walks out onto the sidewalk

where he is joined by his friend.

Ray walks past her onto the street where he sees ROBBIE walking

up the street towards him. Ray begins running towards him.

Robbie doesn't move in fear. Ray gets angry that he is not going.

Ray begins walking down the street to the auto shop a few yards

away.

Everyone who's car is fried is checking their car to see what

went wrong. Ray joins about 30 people walking down to where the

lightning started hitting. Ray's friends join him. Cops walk

by.

Ray and his friends walk up to this hole in the ground where

everyone else is gathered around.

The cops start ushering people to stay back away from the hole.

Ray picks up a stone that is white next to all the black asphalt

crumbs. He switches it from hand to hand because it is too cold

to hold in one hand.

The police officers and the other people gathered around feel

a vibration under their feet.

The pavement starts to crack into a wider circle. People start

running away from the crack as it gets bigger and bigger. Windows

start to crack under pressure as the pavement separates even

more. Entire sheets of road split into pieces causing everyone

on the road to loose their balance. Shots of more shattering

windows. Busting pipes. The church starts cracking apart and

moving with a GIANT CIRCLE of pavement that moves. The pavement

lurches up and then caves down. A few cars go tumbling in. Something

throws the last car that tumbled in back out flying through the

air as a leg of the robot makes a lurch out of the hole. The

police continue trying to move people away. The engines of the

ship start coming out as they power up. The entire ship comes

out and begins dusting it's self off. Ray and his friends hide

behind a building.

Ray begins walking out from behind the building.

The machine makes a large vibrating noise as if calling out to

other robots. It arms it's disintegrator beams and opens fire.

People can be seen to disintegrate as they are struck with the

beam. The beams, when fired make a zap sound. People start exploding

into dust and their clothes are blown away. Ray misses numerous

beams by a foot or two as he goes into a convenience store. Again

Ray runs out the back door and misses another beam by inches.

He runs his ass off trying to escape the robot. Disintegrator

beams strike off rooftops to clear a walking path. Ray hides

behind a building as the machine walks by.

EXT. RAY'S HOUSE - PORCH -  EVENING

Ray walks into the house where he is met by Rachel's gawking

eyes out the window. Robbie stands in the background looking

at the doorway. Ray walks past Rachel then Robbie toward the

kitchen. Rachel and Robbie follow him into the kitchen. With

anxious eyes, Robbie begins to say...

Ray sits down against the wall of the island countertop in the

kitchen, not responding.

Robbie squats down next to Ray as Rachel rests her elbows on

the stool at the island.

Ray seems to be delirious as he slurs his head towards Robbie.

Ray looks at his arms which are coated in the white powder. He

gets up and begins heading for the bathroom. Still unresponsive

to the questions he was just asked. He looks in the mirror to

see that he is covered in the whit powder (human ash). He quickly

does his best to wash it off realizing what it is. After washing

it off, he begins mentally planning what to do.

Walking back into the kitchen...

Ray grabs an old Penzoil box and dumps the tools out of it. He

shoves the box into Robbie who grasps it as to not fall over

at the force Ray used.

Ray runs toward the table, grabs a flashlight and begins to try

to get it to work.

Ray shoves cereal boxes aside to get to the cabinet over the

refrigerator for batteries. Hastily grabbing the package, he

realizes they are probably dead due to the EMP.

INT. RAY'S HOUSE - RAY'S ROOM - EVENING

Ray runs into his room while Rachel and Robbie are downstairs.

He hastily enters the combination to a metal box that contains

a hand gun. He tucks the gun into his belt on his back and folds

his shirts over it.

Street Sidewalk - Evening

Ray, Rachel, and Robbie are walking at a very fast pace down

the sidewalk with about 20 other people around them. Rachel is

clutching Ray's hand and Robbie is carrying the box of food.

Ray sees the car that Manny was working on just as Manny's Apprentice

closes the hood. Ray mutters...

People are seen rushing down the street in the intersecting direction.

Ray, Robbie and Rachel approach the car.

Ray does not respond as he looks in the ignition and finds keys.

Ray loads Rachel in the middle row of seats as Robbie gets in

the passenger seat.

Ray throws Rachel's bag in the row of seats behind her, slams

the door and starts walking to the driver side of the car. He

is caught by Manny walking.

Manny sees Ray has loaded his whole family into the car.

Manny walks over to the passenger side as Ray and Robbie watch

him.

Ray, who did no such thing sits there. Robbie looks at ray wondering

what he's going to do.

Ray reaches over Robbie and opens the door.

Ray tries to get Manny to calm down from the panic he is in...

Rachel begins crying as she says...

A dead silent pause falls on everyone. Robbie stares at Ray in

fright as Ray and Manny stare at each other.

Rachel cries more as a view of an approaching robot shoots flame

at a nearby tree. Ray and Manny continue as Rachel looks at the

flaming tree.

Ray helps Robbie close the door on Manny as they begin speeding

away.

Manny just finishes his line as he is zapped by a disintegrator

beam. Camera shows the auto shop zapped by the beam and exploding

to smithereens.

INT. CAR - DUSK

Trying to outrun the beams...

Ray grabs Robbie's collar of his jacket and shoves him toward

the floor.

High shot shows the bridge behind Ray's house being blasted away.

The expressway gets hit by the beams and overturns into the houses

below. One of them Ray's. An explosion is seen as a fuel tanker

falls on Ray's house that obliterates 4 houses. Flaming debris

flies all over behind the van.

The van has now made it on to the freeway where hundreds of cars

are scattered all over the road broken down. The van speeds by

them honking the horn every few cars.

Rachel begins frantically crying. After a few seconds, she begins

hyperventilating.

After honking his horn a few more times, she has only gotten

worse.

Robbie turns to the back seat as an attempt to calm Rachel. He

thinks of an old technique he was taught.

Rachel makes his demonstrated arm formation.

Robbie stares directly into her eyes. She takes deep breaths

to regain control. She is able to open her eyes and stare back

into his eyes to maintain contact.

Ray looks back into the back seat in amazement at Robbie able

to do what he's doing.

Rachel breaks eye contact and starts controlling her breathing

while Robbie grabs her hand as reassurance.

Robbie grabs her hand and they both lean forward toward the front.

Ray looks into Robbie's eyes who is looking straight forward

on the road.

Ray swerves to miss a car as the camera cranes around to the

driver's side.

Ray looks into the sky. What for is unknown.

Robbie jumps back into the passenger's seat as Rachel scoots

forward in the back seat. Robbie is looking toward the sky.

Robbie gets back into the back seat to repeat the "arms" process

with her to calm her again.

EXT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - DUSK

Still in the car...

As soon as the van stops, Robbie gets out and opens the door

for Rachel.

Robbie grabs the keys off his belt loop as Rachel begins running

up to the front door.

Ray remains in the car realizing how unimportant he really is

(kids are shouting for Tim).

INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - ENTRY - DUSK

Rachel and Robbie are shouting for "mom" and "Tim" as Ray walks

through the door. Rachel and Robbie meet Ray in the entry from

different parts of the house in their search.

The camera goes to the phone which is briskly picked up by Robbie.

Then the camera views into the new family vacation portrait next

to the phone. It has Ray missing who is replaced by Tim.

Robbie is having no luck and is only getting error tones out

of the phone.

Remembering Robbie's calming "arm" technique...

Robbie takes his hat off and sits down as Ray searches the box

for food. He finds peanut butter.

Ray takes the twist tie off the bread bag and dumps the whole

loaf on the counter. He taps his hands together to try to calm

Rachel and Robbie.

Ray opens the peanut butter and grabs a wooden spoon from the

cooking utensil holder on the counter.

Robbie shakes his head yes to her statement.

Ray picks up the bread pieces and throws them at the sink window.

One with peanut butter sticks on the window and slowly slides

off.

INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DUSK

Rachel and Ray are running down the stars carrying their own

pillows and blankets. Robbie follows slightly behind them carrying

his own and a few extra pillows and blankets.

Robbie puts his hat on Rachel's head and ushers her over to the

spot under the stairs where blankets are laid out. Ray walks

over to the chair about five feet away from the bed.

Rachel and Robbie are heard in the background...

Ray takes out his gun and puts it under a pillow of the sofa

as he sits down. So Robbie and Rachel wont notice.

INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Bushes are heard rattling against the window. They become louder

and louder against the window. Eventually they become just shy

of loud enough to wake Ray up. FLASH! A strike of lighting gets

Ray's eyes to roll back around and open. BAM! The second flash

is loud enough to get Robbie (who is now in the seat next to

Ray) to jump up next to him. A few more flashes and the lightening

starts like the first time. BAM! BAM! Every strike of lighting

lights up the entire downstairs. Rachel gets up and looks thought

the stairs.

A close up shot of Robbie. With every lightening strike, his

breathing becomes more erratic.

Just as ray finishes, an ear piercing noise from a jet engine

begins. The howl rattles things off of shelves on the walls.

Robbie and Ray wince at the pain in their ears. Rachel runs up

to Robbie and hugs him in security. Things fall off of shelves

everywhere.

A shot of the incredibly bright window as the noise grows even

louder.

The lighting grows more intense as does the sound.

Robbie opens the door to the furnace room and shows Rachel down

the stairs who runs. Robbie goes back to get Ray.

Ray realizes he has forgotten his gun.

Ray and Robbie run to the door just as a fireball bursts through

the windows. Flaming debris follows after. Ray gets the first

door closed but the fire blasts through the wooden one. He manages,

after a struggle, to get the metal one closed on the inside of

the furnace room.

The door closes and the room is completely black. In the dark,

you can hear the debris being thrown around everywhere around

them.

INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - FURNACE ROOM - DAWN

Ray is looking out the window at the top of the room. He is holding

on to the metal wire conduit. Seeing hardly anything, he judges

it to be safe to go outside the furnace room.

He walks by Rachel who is sleeping in Robbie's arms who is sleeping

against some copper piping. Holding his slightly burned arm in

pain, Ray exit's the room through the charred doors and finds

most of the basement in ruins. The ground floor is now the top

floor because the second floor was completely torn off.

The camera pans out to find a winding down, burning airplane

engine. Panning out further we can see ray walking through the

remains of different sections of an airplane.

EXT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - YARD - DAWN

Ray sees the fuselage with one surviving person hauling a blue

cart through the aisle.

The man continues hauling the cart.

The cart comes flying down the fuselage doorway as the man creeps

down the floor to the ground.

The news reporter comes rushing out from the side of the news

van in the background.

They succeed in jimmying open the cart and begin bagging all

the water and food they can.

She begins eating one of the meal packages.

INT. NEWS CAR - DAWN

The reporter looks at tapes to find the one she's looking for.

When she does so, she jams it into the VCR which promptly begins

playing it.

She shows him a tape of about 30 tripods destroying a city.

She wheels her chair around to show him the next piece.

She slows the footage down so he can get a good look. She advances

it slowly. She points out an alien capsule like object running

down the lighting bolt.

A vibration noise is heard by an approaching robot. They both

jump at the noise.

The camera man has his hands full of meals as he loads into the

van.

The door almost closes on Ray as she stops and opens it again.

Ray shakes his head no.

She closes the door on him.

Black blend to:

INT. MARY ANN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAWN

Ray is talking to Rachel...

Rachel and Ray are putting on their coats.

Rachel has her big eyes on him as she nods yes.

She shakes her head and whispers "no".

INT. (BUT DUE TO CRASH IT IS NOW EXT.) MARY ANN'S HOUSE - DEBRIS

FIELD - DAWN

Ray is carrying Rachel to the van. Robbie is walking along behind

them looking at the devastation.

Camera follows Robbie who puts his hands on his head in amassment

of the devastation. Ray starts the car and turns it around to

pull out.

Robbie does not react at all. Ray becomes agitated.

Ray gives him a mean look as Robbie realizes that they must go.

They pull away from the wreckage and continue on their journey.

EXT. VAN - DAY

Ray is reading the map while Robbie looks out the window. They

are taking back roads that have nothing but farmlands on them.

Ray shoves the map on the floorboard as he becomes more angry

at Robbie.

Rachel shakes her head "yes" as he pulls the car over.

Ray grabs Robbie by the shirt arm and holds him in the car. He

glares at Rachel mean enough to make her freeze in her seat.

Robbie breaks free of Ray's grasp on his sleeve. Robbie and Rachel

both get out of the car. Ray follows the both of them to supervise

the whole event from the van.

Rachel is about 200 feet away entering a patch of bushes. Robbie

has already found a spot about 10' away next to the stream under

the road.

Rachel is entering the wooded area next to the stream looking

for a half way decent spot. She sees the river and looks at it

in beauty just as she sees a body floating down it. MORE BODIES

start coming at a huge rate. 20,30,40,50 bodies floating down

the river. Rachel begins to hyperventilate again as Ray comes

up from behind her and throws his hands over her eyes and grabs

her.

Ray grabs her into his arms and begins walking back to the van.

Army trucks can be heard crossing by the van. Robbie, who's only

interest is killing one of the robots sees this as an opportunity

to do so. Robbie runs toward the trucks and begins shouting....

Some trucks pass by as the soldiers in them look at him blankly.

Robbie is getting soaked as the tank's tracks roll over the large

puddles of water. Robbie is not giving up hope that one may let

him on.

Ray sees Robbie trying to get on with them. He has had enough

of Robbie and goes up to him to tell him....

Robbie, who ignores him is still shouting for them to stop.

Ray and Robbie are about ready to start throwing punches at each

other as the tanks continue rolling by.

Robbie is shivering in the cold of his wet clothes but his adrenaline

keeps him fighting at Ray. They both can be seen with the air

from their nostrils flaring like a bull. Rachel rushes in as

an attempt to get Robbie to realize what he's doing.

Rachel begins to cry as Robbie looks at her in sorrow.

Rachel's last line almost brings Robbie to tears as he picks

her up and starts walking over to the van. Ray stands next to

the still rolling army vehicles and begins to realize how this

brother and sister have come to rely on each other during the

divorce of their parents.

INT. VAN - DAY

Robbie is staring out the window in the exact opposite direction

of Ray. The radio is broadcasting the emergency alert test. Ray

turns off the radio and says...

INT. VAN - DUSK

Robbie is driving into a city. Ray is sleeping in the passenger

seat. The streets are crowded with people walking. Robbie gets

worried and gets Ray to drive.

Ray wakes up and Robbie tries to get him to take the wheel.

They continue driving through the crowd as they become more and

more mad at Ray for not letting them on. They begin banging on

the glass.

The man continues hitting the windshield.

Rachel is busy looking at all the people who are now begging

for a ride.

The three of them fasten their seatbelts.

People bang on the windows louder as they shout "give me a ride".

A police man jumps on the hood and bangs on the window.

Rachel is panicking and starts to do the "arms" process to stay

calm.

Ray hit's the gas pedal as the police man falls off the side

of the van. Ray speeds away now and gains some speed just as

someone throws debris into the windshield which breaks it. Rachel

screams in panic.

Robbie and Ray see a woman standing dead in their way holding

a baby. They swerve to miss her.

The van smashes into the telephone pole and the pole lurches

about 20 feet. The transformer on the top of the pole begins

to arc and spark. The crowd is now rocking the van from side

to side shouting at about a riot level.

INT. VAN - DUSK

Rachel has no time to respond before the back windshield is busted

open by a crowd member. The driver and passenger side windows

are then promptly busted. Robbie ducks to avoid the flying glass.

A man jumps on the hood and starts ripping glass away from the

hole in the front windshield. He is so desperate to get in the

van he rips his hands to shreds. A crowd member suggests to "push

it". He does so and the glass falls through.

The passenger side door is opened and Robbie is pulled out by

the rioting crowd.

Ray then screams to the rioting crowd who are now pulling him

out of the driver's side window.

A man from the crowd runs up to Rachel's window, breaks it, and

tries to grab Rachel. Ray pulls the man out and throws him back

into the crowd.

Ray is pushed by the man he just threw and hit's the driver's

side door. Ray kicks the guy square in the gut which gets him

back into the crowd.

Ray wrestles another man trying to grab Rachel. The man gets

tossed to the ground. Just as Ray stands up... WHAM!!! Ray is

hit in the back of the head by a man with a baseball bat. The

blow was not severe enough to cause life threatening damage to

Ray.

Another man grabs Ray to try to fight him. Women in the crowd

yell to "stop them" but nobody does so. The man who is strangling

Ray yells to "get in the car". Robbie fought off the men who

pulled him out of the car, comes over to Ray's side, and begins

choking the man who is choking Ray. Robbie hit's the man's head

against the car. The man releases his grip on Ray, the man and

Robbie are drug into the rioting crowd beyond frame view.

A man gets into the driver's seat and tries to start the car.

Ray just barely finishes as he is drug off into the crowd beyond

frame.

Rachel tries to get out, but there is an overflow of people barreling

into the car through the windows. She is surrounded by people

in the car. Robbie and Ray are getting beat in the crowd.

Ray manages to pull out his gun. He fires off two rounds into

the air. The crowd instantly moves away from him. One man yells

"take it easy!" No sign of Robbie.

Men start getting off the car to avoid the gun threatening Ray.

Realizing Robbie is nowhere in sight....

Ray is able to pull Robbie out from the crowd. Robbie has a running

bloody nose and a badly bruised stomach. He is fighting to catch

his breath because he had it knocked out of him.

The camera moves from Robbie to Ray, then pivots on his face

to reveal a man holding another gun at Ray's head.

Ray is scared into dropping his gun on the street. Ray then puts

his hands near his head to avoid being shot.

Ray grabs Rachel out of the car as the riot man gets in the driver's

seat and closes the door.

Robbie, who has managed to get to his feet, hunched over, walks

over to Ray. Ray, with Rachel in his arms, and Robbie walk to

the diner on the street. The man backs up the car just as the

camera pans down to see a man who sees the gun on the street.

The man picks up Ray's gun and looks at the man in the van.

INT. DINER - DUSK

The three of them are walking to a booth in the diner. Ray, with

Rachel in his arms, is beginning to bleed from his head wound.

He walks with a slight limp. Rachel is panic stricken. Robbie

lets go of his bloody nose and, with both hands, clenches his

chest in pain. He is still fighting to catch his breath. They

are all soaked from the rain.

They all sit down at the booth. The power is flickering on and

off. As they begin to relax from the ordeal they just had, gunshots

are heard. BAM!! BAM!! Ray jumps and catches his head in his

hands as it throbs. Robbie jumps and flails his arms in pain

as the jump tightened muscles in his stomach. Robbie turns around

to see the man with Ray's gun firing at Riot Man 3. BAM! One

more gunshot is heard. Rachel scurries over to Robbie who, despite

his pain, grabs Rachel and they hug each other seeking comfort.

The van drives away.

Rachel sobs as Ray also starts crying because nobody knows what

to do from here. Robbie looks at Ray for some comfort. He has

none.

Walking Down the Street - Dusk

They are walking in a crowd of about 300. Some men share their

stories of assumption. One man says... "Europe's got it the worst...."

while another man says "We've got it the worst......" while some

people "don't give a shit who it is....."

A rail road crossing guard stick comes down as the bells and

lights start going off. The people stand behind the guard just

like cars. They wait.

A train approaches and is blowing off fireballs from an encounter

with a robot. The entire train is flaming and burning. The train,

as it whisks by is releasing pieces of red hot ash. The bars

go up as the train completes it's crossing. The people continue

walking.

EXT. FERRY DOCK - DUSK

Random, pointless music is playing over the PA system as people

are being herded by soldiers onto a ferry boat. A blood bank

woman says over a megaphone...

Shots of the herded people boarding the ferry.

Solders are heard and seen saying "this way" and "keep it moving

folks".

Ray and Sheryl hug as they are re-united.

Ray, Sheryl, Nora, and Rachel exchange handshakes.

Rachel looks at sea gulls that are flying rather fast away from

the boat. Robbie meets Sheryl with Ray.

Rachel continues watching the gulls.

Rachel is now fully into watching the gulls. Ray, Sheryl, and

Robbie are engaged into small talk. Rachel sees the gulls flying

around something over the horizon behind the city.

Rachel watches the trees begin to be flattened and moved as something

gets brighter on the horizon. Rachel grabs Ray's finger and he

realizes that she wants him. Ray turns around to see what Rachel

wants as he too sees the thing on the horizon. Robbie sees Ray

looking that way, so he too looks that way. A robot puts it's

last foot down with a thud and looks at the dock full of people.

It makes the vibration noise which gets the attention of everybody.

The crowd begins overrunning the soldiers and cramming onto the

ship for safety. The captain sees the overflow and prepares the

ship for takeoff to try to stop the overflow.

The soldiers create a blockade which holds back the crowd for

quite a while. As the crowd starts to collect, the soldiers start

to bulge forward from people pushing them. Three robots now switch

on their lights to look over the crowd of people. A moving crowd

of about 1,000 people is now collecting on the soldiers who so

far are withstanding.

Ray, now in the front next to a soldier, tries to get them to

let him and his family through. They say there is no more room.

The harbor master hit's the switch to start the ramp motor to

begin folding up the ramp. Soldiers shove empty cars off the

ramp.

Sheryl is knocked around by a few people and looses grip of Ray's

jacket.

They run faster and Sheryl falls farther behind. Robbie makes

a grab for her hand but a soldier stops Sheryl just short.

The ramp begins lifting as a few people make one last jump and

latch on to it. Ray looks back for Sheryl.

Rachel screams as Ray runs to the bow with Rachel in his arms.

Robbie is soon to follow...

Robbie runs right past them and up to the captain's deck.

Robbie, panting hard, looks at the inclining ramp and sees there

are still people hanging on to the back side of the ramp. He

starts running to the stern of the ship.

The captain pushes the throttle all the way full. The propellers

start so fast they spray water all over the people still at the

dock. Pulling away at it's ties to the dock, the ship begins

pulling away.

Robbie ignores them as he jumps onto the grate of the folded

up ramp. Climbing to the top, he begins helping those who are

hanging on the back side of the ramp.

Camera turns or Ray's face. Ray looks at Robbie helping people

in admiration and proud ness.

INT. CAPTAIN'S CONTROL ROOM - DUSK

The captain sees some sort of whirlpool sucking water down into

a hole. The ship begins to slowly turn toward the hole, being

sucked in.

Passengers rush over to the starboard railing where a robot emerges

from the whirlpool. WOOSH!!! Hundreds of gallons of water are

tossed up with the robot. The water in the air turns to snow

as it falls on the ship. The robot's engines howl in the air.

The robot's claws begin pushing the ship making it lean to one

side and finally tip over on it's side. Robbie is already running

towards Ray. At the turn of the ship, the three go into the water.

Cars start coming towards them. WOOSH!!! A car comes right for

them. SPLASH!!! The car hit's the water where they are, instantly

pinning Robbie and Ray to the front of it. Rachel is holding

on to Robbie's back, also going down.

The people in the car are screaming as the car fills with water.

As the ship completely capsizes, people are thrown or washed

into the water. Cars sink down, people float and the ship bobs

in the water. Ray is able to un-pin himself and pulls Robbie

out. They all begin swimming to the surface. Rachel lags behind

and Robbie grabs her and helps her up.  At the surface, they

meet. A ship propeller at full power. They begin to swim away

from it. Claws from the ship over head are grabbing people and

pulling them into the robot's holds.

EXT. BEACH - DARK

Ray is heaving Rachel up to shore. Robbie is not far behind.

They are all fighting to get their breath after swimming for

so long. Ray can no longer haul Rachel up the beach.

Robbie almost slips as he gags, still fighting for breath.

Pulling each other up the hill....

Alert sirens can be heard coming from the city.

Ray pulls the two of them.

They all lay on the hillside, gasping for air. In the distance

they look... Two robots are still picking people up out of the

water. Two more robots have joined and are picking up people

off the streets. Many people scream.

With jaws clattering, Rachel looks toward the other hillside

on the other side of the river. Shivering Ray and Robbie look

there with her.

THREE MORE robots are on the opposite hillside blasting people

with their disintegrator beams. Many more people scream. Rachel,

in fright, runs towards the bushes behind Ray. Ray sees her,

and runs with her. Robbie runs with them. They stop and squat

down as they see the top of another robot coming over the hill

to join the three.

Robbie, running, with clenched teeth, stops. His jaw drops as

we are able to see hundreds of thousands of articles of clothing

falling from the sky. They continue running through the woods

where clothes fall like snow.

Pasture Fence Line - Dark

Robbie is walking 5' ahead of Ray and Rachel along a fence line

of a pasture. Gunfire is seen and heard over the hill about 500

yards away. Robbie, who always wanted to help in the fight, begins

walking faster toward the gunfire.

Robbie follows the fence line and walks a little faster.

Robbie, who is coming closer to the hill, sees army trucks rolling

down the road and up the hill. Seeing this, Robbie walks into

a slow run along the fence line. Ray and Rachel try to keep up.

Robbie, getting closer, runs faster, faster.

Ray and Rachel duck as a missile comes EXTREMELY CLOSE to their

heads. Jets speed by them overhead. Rachel screams.

Robbie, in a full scale run, runs with the army trucks that have

now taken to the hills. Ray and Rachel run as fast as they can

to try to stay with Robbie.

Robbie runs with the trucks with all his might. Ray and Rachel

are now searching for him.

Ray sees Robbie about 20' ahead of him.

Robbie is held back by two soldiers. Robbie gets thrown back

by them where Ray grabs him and pins him to the ground. Robbie

fights to get back up.

Soldiers are blasting everything they have to something over

the hill. Radio people are telling their officers "no effect

on target".

Robbie is watching all he is able to see while Ray tries to get

his attention on him.

Robbie ignores him and continues watching artillery blast over

the hill.

Ray gets fed up with Robbie. He grabs his shoulders and flips

him over on to his back. Robbie looks at Ray in fright that he

did that. Ray grabs his coat shoulders, and climbs on top of

him, pining him down to the ground.

Rachel watches helicopters fire missiles simultaneously over

the hill.

Rachel is approached by people. They think she's alone so they

try to talk her into coming with them (ad lib).

Robbie tries to fight to get up but Ray keeps him pinned to the

ground.

Ray sees the couple trying to get Rachel to go with them. For

a second, Ray doesn't know what to do.

Ray and Robbie are silent for what seems to them like forever.

Ray looks to Rachel who is being carried away by the couple.

Robbie manages to turn back over to his stomach. After enough

trying, Robbie is able to squirm out of Ray's grasp on his shoulders.

Robbie crawls out of Ray's grasp and stands up. They stare at

each other for a while and Robbie begins running over the hill.

Ray runs over to Rachel to get her back from the couple.

She doesn't finish as she scurries away. Ray looks at the hill

where the soldiers were firing at... A FLAMING army truck rolls

over the hill.

Two more trucks come over the hill ablaze. Suddenly... BOOM!!!

A ring of mine charges go off at the peak of the hill. The explosion

blast is almost big enough to knock Ray off of his feet.

By now, Robbie has run over the hill and is long out of site.

A robot that appears to be on fire comes slowly rising over the

hill. Ray makes a run for it down the hill. We can see three

robots now rising over the hill. Missiles and bullets are being

fired at them as their shields block all the fired artillery.

EXT. HARLAND'S HOUSE - CELLAR DOOR - NIGHT

Harland lives in the basement of his house about 300 feet away

from the hill that the robots came over. He is holding a rifle

as a signal for anybody who can see him.

Ray and Rachel run towards him.

The three of them scurry into the basement. Ray and Rachel run

into the main room while Harland proceeds to close the cellar

doors. Gunfire can be heard alongside the screams from people.

Lights flash through the cracks in the walls and door.

INT. HARLAND'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DUSK - CONTINUOUS

Harland walks up to the lantern hanging on the wall and looks

at Ray and Rachel. His face, half lit looks medieval with the

clothes he wears.

Harland grabs the lantern and carries it over to where Ray and

Rachel are huddled shivering in their damp clothes.

Rachel does not respond most likely due to shock.

Ray looks up at him and looks at the lantern. He is still heard

muttering "Robbie" very quietly.

Harland moves a wheel barrel as rats are seen scurrying about

on the floor. The army platoon has gone far enough over the hill

that gunfire can no longer be seen or heard.

Rachel's face is pure white with some red around her eyes.

Ray already knows what she is going to ask.

Harland is watching them through fallen out boards in the wall.

Harland sits down on the stairs to listen to their conversation.

He begins sharpening a shovel with a file.

Rachel is crying because she misses Robbie and her mom. Ray sees

the first place ribbon she keeps carrying around and begins to

investigate what it is.

She begins to feel dreary...

Rachel turns over (her back to Ray) because she realizes that

it is a lost hope to get a song out of him. Ray thinks for a

moment and remembers an old nursery rhyme he was taught.

Rachel turns back over as Ray continues singing...

Rachel has fallen asleep. Ray kisses her on the forehead. Harland

taps two glasses together and says...

Ray gets up and begins walking towards him.

Harland hands Ray a glass as they both sit down.

Silence falls over for a period.

Ray drinks the schnapps as he begins to ask...

Another pause.

They shake hands.

Ray gets up from the conversation.

Ray looks at Harland sternly because he is afraid Rachel may

hear what he may say next.

Ray walks over to where Rachel is sleeping.

He pauses and begins chuckling at his own joke.

Harland walks back over to the place where the conversation first

started.

Ray lies down next to Rachel as Harland finishes...

The ground starts shaking from robots walking around outside.

Ray gets back up just as BOOM!! A small piece of the corner of

the basement collapses from all the vibration.

They both are waling towards a window.

Ray and Harland see two robots spraying vine like strands out

of a hole on the bottom of the ship onto the ground.

Ray goes over to Rachel and picks her up to take her somewhere

else.

Ray puts the now wide awake Rachel in a chair.

Ray opens up a window guard to see two robots skimming the ground

almost as if they are tilling up the soil. He now understands

that robots do this on a regular basis.

Ray puts his hands over his face as he realizes he is staying

with an insane man.

INT. HARLAND'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NEAR DUSK

Ray looks at the mysterious red plant that is growing wildly.

He feels it and them snaps a piece of it off of a pipe. He examines

it closely as he walks over to the window where lights are beaming

in and out as the robots work. He takes another piece of a wall

and studies that one.

Ray hears a hovering craft over his head. A light flows over

the roof boards that streams down to the other end of a board

hall in the basement. Harland is sitting on the stairs with Rachel.

Ray is very angry that Harland is saying things like that to

his daughter.

Rachel runs towards him and he points to stand beside him. They

both stare at Harland, on the stairs, in dismay.

Harland walks around to different parts of the basement doing

miscellaneous things.

The robots outside stop moving. All the rumbling stops.

Pieces of wood fall from the hole as a robot camera comes floating

down into the hole. Ray hides behind the stairs. The camera eye

opens and lights turn on for it.

Rachel is hiding as well. The camera looks around the couch.

Ray moves as to not be seen by it moving around the couch. It

sees a rat and quickly follows it for a few seconds. Ray and

Harland exchange looks as Ray runs toward Rachel to hide with

her.

The robot continues checking out the basement. Harland grabs

an axe to cut off the camera from it's limb. Ray shakes his head

no to get him to stop. Ray silently does expressions to convince

him not to.

Harland goes towards ray so they can hide together. Harland almost

makes it before he thuds against a cabinet full of glass containers

which clang together. The robot hears this and turns around toward

the noise. They run to a different spot.

Robot gets closer...

Ray puts a mirror in front of the doorway to trick the robot

into seeing another robot. The camera looks over the mirror and

sees nothing.

It turns around just as... Rachel's boot slides, making a noise.

The robot views into the boot that is hanging out. It looks behind

the mirror to find just a boot sitting there. Ray, Rachel and

Harland are in the middle of the basement. A sight of relief

comes as the robot camera exit's out of the hole.

Now the actual aliens come into the basement. Harland turns the

lantern out and runs to hide. The aliens look around the basement.

They look at, smell, and touch various different things throughout

the basement. Ray, Rachel, and Harland scurry to different parts

of the basement.

Harland loads his gun and aims it to fire at one of the aliens

but the gun is pulled back by Ray.

Ray and Harland are in a silent fight for the gun. They both

have their hands on it. The aliens continue looking around.

Ray and Harland are both sweating bullets fighting for the gun.

Still silently.  Harland pins Ray against the wall and forces

him down to the ground to try and break the gun free of his grasp.

The aliens are seen taking and smelling a photograph from a box.

Ray lets go of the gun and Harland jerks it away from him just

as the vibration like noise is heard from the robot. The aliens

scurry out through the open hole.

Harland comes down to Ray, now sitting on the floor, and says....

INT. HARLAND'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAY

The vines ray looked at are growing at a phenomenal rate along

the concrete slab under the window. Robots are spraying a red

mist out of the back of their ships. Ray holds his hand in the

mist that is entering the window.  After a moment.... Ray retracts

his hand and turns it over to reveal what appears to be blood.

Harland turns around and his whole face is covered in spots of

blood.

They both turn back around then Harland runs. Ray watches a man

being set down, fighting to be let go. A needle like object comes

down and stabs the man. It then pumps the blood out of him. Ray

has a horrified look on his face.

Ray realizes they will have the same fate if he keeps yelling.

Then... the robots stop because they hear him. Ray runs to Harland

who is digging some sort of hole.

Harland has mentally lost it now.

Harland pays no attention to him.

Ray grabs him by the arm just as he hits ray in the forehead

with a shovel. Ray releases his grip and lies on a dirt pile

next to Harland.

Ray runs up the stairs of the room to Rachel standing calmly

in the middle of the basement.

Ray hugs Rachel because he knows what he has to do.

Harland goes on saying odd things as Ray gets Rachel prepared

for what he has to do.

Ray puts a black cloth over Rachel's eyes which makes her breathing

go erratic.

Ray kisses her hands and has her put them over her ears. Then

walks back to Harland. He is still digging and chanting "not

my blood"

Harland stops and sees Ray standing in the doorway.

Ray closes the door behind him as he steps in.

Rachel hears screams and grunts as the two men fight behind the

door.

Rachel's voice begins trembling as she holds her ears tighter.

All is silent for a while. Ray opens the door and walks out.

Rachel releases her hands and takes off the blindfold. Ray is

sitting on the stairs.

Rachel sits in his lap and puts his arms around her. They both

sit there in silence.

INT. HARLAND'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - DUSK

Ray and Rachel are sleeping on the couch. As we view down from

Ray's face we find that Rachel is wide awake for some reason.

She sits up and....

A robot camera is 1' away from her face. Rachel runs to the wall,

still screaming as ray hit's the camera with his hands. The camera

hit's the ceiling and shakes it's self off of debris.

Ray begins blasting the axe he had in hand into the camera attachment

line. Rachel screams as he hit's the line. Over and over and

over. Rachel runs up the basement stairs. Ray continues hitting

it and it finally pulls away. The camera, still attached by a

hair, hits some wood planks and is pulled out of the hole.

No response for a few seconds, then Rachel lets off a gut wrenching

scream.

He runs up the stairs to search for her in the house.

Ray opens the front door to find red vines coated in blood in

the doorway. He quickly brushes them down stepping out the door.

He begins walking down a path to look for her farther out.

He gets no response from Rachel. All is dead silent accept for

him.

Ray sees an entire field of blood coated red vines beyond the

hill.

A robot's lights turn on to him as a food lands close enough

to him to blow him back. One of the robot's grabbing claws comes

after Ray. He hides in a truck. The claw breaks through the glass,

grabs the car, and flips it, causing it to roll about 3 times.

Now in the car, lying upside down, he hears Rachel scream. He

looks and Rachel is standing at the top of a hill.

The robot centers above her and begins to grab her with a claw.

Ray runs towards her to try and do what he can to stop it.

The robot blasts through a building. Ray is right behind the

foot. He runs into an army vehicle and finds a belt full of grenades.

He takes on off, removes the pin and throws it at the robot.

It hit's the robot's shields and the robot turns right around.

It eyeballs Ray for a moment and picks him up by a grabbing claw.

He is thrown into a cage with about 30 other people in it as

well. The gate closes on the top as he is thrown in. The camera

shows he is in one of two cages. People scream and cry in confusion.

Ray spots Rachel sitting on the side of the grate.

He goes towards her just as the door opens, it makes a sound

and a grabbing claw comes out of a hole on the robot. Ray falls

down (luckily), it grabs another person and sucks him into the

ship. The same happens in the other cage.

She seems to be frozen.

Ray goes to speak just as BOOM! The grate shifts, tossing all

the people around and the door opens to take another person up.

Ray ducks down with Rachel but this is noticed by the grabbing

claw. He is swept up by it. Rachel holds on to his neck to go

with him. But then, Ray sees his belt of grenades. He prigs Rachel's

hands off of him and grabs the grenades. A soldier sees this

and latches onto Ray's arm.

People all start latching on to the soldier and begin heaving

him and Ray down. They loose ground until more people join.

Ray is let loose by the clamp and they all fall back into the

cage. Ray spits out two grenade pins out of his mouth. This is

seen by the soldier.

Hardly anybody gets down as the inside of the robot explodes.

We can see the robot exploding on the inside. It breaks doors

and fluid stars spilling out of it. The robot releases it's cages

and they fall into a tree. Splitting open. People promptly climb

out.

Once the robot falls to the ground, Rachel looks at Ray in a

way that meant how did you do that.

Boston City Limits - Freeway - Day

Ray walks with Rachel down the road as soldiers are ushering

them to "keep moving." The crows are now eating the red plant

which appears to be dying rapidly.  Ray picks up a piece, of

dead plant.

Ray crumples the plant in his hand. It turns to dust and blows

away.

Watching the dust, they walk along to find a robot lying half

struck into a building.

Ray goes up to another soldier for information.

Ray asks another soldier down the road for information.

Rachel and Ray are walking down the road with soldiers and other

people.

Seeing another robot, one soldier motions to get into the water

tunnel. Other soldiers make signals to get set up for defense

if necessary. Everyone gets into the tunnel. A soldier can be

heard telling everyone "calm down and get in the tunnel".

Ray notices that birds are flying over AND LANDING ON the robot.

The robot's shields are down. As he goes to tell someone, the

robot makes the viberating sound.

The soldier looks at them and doesn't get what Ray's getting

at. He looks back at Ray. The noise continues erratically as

if the robot is fighting to stay alive.

Ray gets in the tunnel as all the soldiers come running out.

Soldiers scurry to get set up and they hurriedly fire missiles

at the robot. The first missile hit's the grabbing claws and

knocks them off. A few more shots and the robot collapses into

a nearby factory. The factory explodes and the robot grinds to

a halt on the ground. They check it to be clear as an alien falls

out of the door. It quickly dies on site.

We watch the alien turn to stone as it dies.

Boston - Walking Down Street near Mary Ann's Mother's house -

Day

Mary Ann walks up to the front door and sees Ray walking down

the street with Rachel in his arms. She flutters open the doors

and she and Rachel run towards each other on the street. Mary

Ann begins crying.

They hug each other crying.

Mary Ann looks at Ray who is still standing in the middle of

the street.

Mary Ann's parents come out of the door. The mother has a shocked

look on her face. Tim is behind them.

Ray's eyes and face perk up as we see ROBBIE coming down the

front steps towards him.

Ray and Robbie take a good look at each other and Robbie finally

mutters with a dry throat.

They hug each other in thankfulness for each other's survival.

Screenshot of a germ in a water droplet on a bud on a tree

FADE OUT TO BLACK

THE END

Roll Credits

