The following is very loosely based on some shit that actually

happened...

We hear the roar of a V8 engine, piped out through some

throaty, fucked up muffler, as

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

An '89 Mustang bursts like a shot over a rise in the highway.

It's got a rusted two-tone paint job, Maryland plates, and

bald tires that scream as it peels off an exit and into the

EXT. SUBURBS - DAY

The car fast approaches a stop sign, dangerously blows through

the intersection.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

We don't see the DRIVER, only the redlining RPMs, Vans slip-

ons working the pedals, wristwatch being checked. The wheel

cranks right as the car turns onto a -

One way street. A minivan flies right at us. The Mustang

hops up onto the curb to avoid it, clips a trash can and -

Garbage explodes like confetti. The wipers engage, brushing

the trash aside. The car whips another turn and

EXT. SUBURBS - DAY

The Mustang fishtails around a corner and skids away.

Brake pads smoke. The Mustang stops outside

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

The Driver jumps out of the car. As he rushes to the front

door, we see the urgent package he is delivering.

TWO LARGE PIZZAS

Before he can ring the bell, the door opens and two smug 15-

YEAR-OLDS stare out.

REVEAL our guy staring back at the kids. This is WILL (25),

probably good looking in another life.

Right now, he is tired and unamused, wearing a red "Giorgio's

Trattoria" hat and a sweaty matching t-shirt.

Will takes a calming breath. Hands over the pizzas.

The kids shakes their heads.

Will makes a show of mulling this over.

The kids look at each other. One hesitantly pulls out some

cash. Will snatches it and heads off.

The kids look uncertain. As if sensing this, Will stops

before getting into his ride.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

The sun sets. Will cruises back into his own middle-class

town in suburban Maryland.

A six pack of Budweiser rests in the passenger seat.

Will stops at a light. Checks out a PRETTY YOUNG THING in

the Jeep beside him. She catches him looking, rolls her

eyes. The light turns and the Jeep skids away.

Will self consciously removes his "Giorgio's" cap.

INT. GIORGIO'S TRATTORIA - NIGHT

Will enters and nods at CHRISTOPHER (40s), the manager. His

balding head is nearly translucent from absorbing a day's

worth of pizza grease.

Will hands over some cash to Christopher.

Chris is unmoving.

Will storms off. As he gets to the door -

Will shakes his head. Swallows what's left of his pride.

EXT. SMALL APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Will sits on the darkened front stoop. He tosses an empty

can into the bushes and gets to work on his fourth beer.

He looks over at a parked Hyundai Elantra. A YOUNG MAN sits

in the passenger seat with a pensive look on his face. He

makes a sudden, surprised gasp. The homely YOUNG WOMAN who

was just blowing him sits up from his lap and rearranges

herself in the driver seat. She leans over for a goodbye

kiss. The Young Man obliges with much fanfare.

The Young Man gets out and the car pulls away. This is CHET

(25), a clean cut guy dressed in the Gap Premium Collection.

He heads toward the building, high off his BJ, humming

Outkast's "Ms. Jackson." He stops when he notices Will in

the shadows.

Will offers his beer. Chet takes a slug, gurgles for effect.

Will picks up some rented movies sitting beside him.

Will heaves a sigh.

Will grudgingly stands up.

He holds up the Lethal Weapon DVDs.

Will shakes his head, turns and walks off.

INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - DAY

Will wakes up, legs dangling over the edge of a tiny couch.

His TV is still on, displaying the menu screen from a porn.

Will looks down at his coffee table. Clears some magazines

to reveal a file folder. Flips the cover -

It's full of college applications, drafts of admissions essays,

a junior college transcript. Will thumbs through one of the

glossy applications. The kids look young. Very young.

Will glances over at a picture on his wall: he and Chet at

high school graduation, looking just as young. They have

their arms around a pretty girl squeezed between them. Will

and the girl look very high and very happy.

Will shuts the folder, slides it back under the coffee table

debris. He looks over at a clock: it is already 2:00 PM.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

Will jumps in and starts the engine. As he tucks his

"Giorgio's" cap onto his head, he catches his reflection in

the rear-view mirror.

He makes his fingers into a gun, puts it to his head...pulls

the trigger and

BOOM!

EXT. OPEN FIELD - DAY

A watermelon explodes in a shower of red, juicy bits. Loud,

dumb laughter echoes.

Standing 20 yards away is DWAYNE (32), an intense, meaty guy

in a sleeveless Baltimore Ravens t-shirt. On his left bicep

is a tattoo of the Tasmanian Devil flipping the bird.

Crouched beside him is JAY (27), tall and awkward, in a wool

surplus cap. He carefully rigs homemade explosives to another

watermelon, then looks up at Dwayne. His eyes are magnified

into saucers by his thick glasses. There's a peculiar

eagerness to please in them.

Jay jogs the watermelon a safe distance away. He returns

and pulls out a detonator. Dwayne snatches it.

Dwayne presses a button and

BOOM!

The explosion is so powerful that it sprinkles our guys'

smiling faces with fruit juice.

INT. KITCHEN, NICE HOUSE - DAY

Large and early-90s chic. Dwayne and Jay have the fridge

open, fixing themselves a cold cut plate. Dwayne is debating

the amount of meat on the plate...adds some more.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY

The shades are drawn. We hear a girl scream bloody murder!

The guys are watching FRIDAY THE 13TH PART 3...in 3D. They

both wear cheap cardboard glasses.

Jay jumps back as Jason wields a 3D ax.

Dwayne reaches out, "touching" the 3D images. He stands and

starts humping the air.

Jay cracks up. The lights flick on.

Standing by the switch is Dwayne's dad, JERRY (70s). Most

people just call him "THE MAJOR." The faded USMC tattoo on

his thick forearm explains why.

Dwayne flops back onto the couch.

The Major grabs Dwayne and pulls him up off the couch. He

gets right in his face...scary, intense. Dwayne turns to Jay.

Jay gets up and files out the door. Dwayne goes to take the

cold cut plate. The Major grabs his arm.

Dwayne storms off.

EXT. NICE HOUSE - DAY

Dwayne and Jay head out, passing a brand new pickup truck in

the driveway. Dwayne spits on it.

The guys get in a shitty Ford Aerostar minivan and peel out.

INT. DIVE STRIP CLUB - DAY

R. Kelly's "Ignition (Remix)" pumps.

Large, fake breasts, sparkling with cheap body glitter and

pierced at the nipples, shake before us. Their owner, JUICY

(27), a petite Latina, phones in a lap dance as Dwayne pours

his heart out to her.

Somewhere in the background, Jay hangs at the bar, all alone.

Dwayne shifts, uncomfortably, at the sore subject.

This piques Juicy's interest.

INSERT PHOTO: The Major holding a giant cardboard check.

Behind inch-long fake eyelashes, Juicy's shrewd eyes narrow,

mind working. She straddles Dwayne, tightly.

Juicy pantomimes a long, slow chicken head. Dwayne is blissed

out. She smiles at him, sticky sweet.

Dwayne looks confused. Juicy puts his hands on her breasts,

emboldening him.

Juicy leans in, whispers softly in Dwayne's ear -

On Dwayne's face as this new possibility pinballs around his

mind, setting off a flood of different emotions.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING

Will has one pizza left in the back of his car. He pulls

over outside an office building.

INT. LAW FIRM, OFFICE BUILDING - NIGHT

Rows of cubicles. Speckled with late night STRAGGLERS, bleary

eyes, too busy generating detailed lists of places they'd

rather be to notice the pizza boy walking along. Will stops

before one such work station, looks on for a beat.

KATE (25) turns from the glow of her computer screen. She

has short, messy hair and a sarcastic smile. This is the

girl from the picture in Will's apartment.

Kate looks back at her computer, logged onto an Expedia

checkout page for a Rio vacation. She moves the mouse pointer

from the "proceed" key...closes the window.

Will lays a pizza down on her desk.

Kate opens the pizza box, grabs a slice.

Will grabs a slice. They eat quietly for a beat.

Will's delicious pizza suddenly tastes like shit. He does

his best to swallow it down.

Kate shoves Will, good-naturedly.

Will shrugs, quietly devastated. Goes back to his pizza.

INT. SPORTS BAR - NIGHT

Most of the PATRONS are fixated on an Orioles game blaring

from a large flat-screen TV.

At a booth in back, Dwayne and Jay are in deep conversation.

Dwayne nods, seriously.

Dwayne takes a long sip of beer, contemplative.

Dwayne leans across the table.

Jay nods, thinking about. He smiles.

Jay looks conflicted. Dwayne goes dark, like a spurned lover.

Jay looks Dwayne in the eyes, knows it's all or nothing...

Dwayne chuckles.

Dwayne thinks about this for a second.

Dwayne smiles. But a nagging thought interrupts him -

The guys stare at each other, stumped. Until something

catches Dwayne's attention...a local commercial playing on

the flat-screen. A PIZZA CHEF slides a pizza into a box -

The guys look at each other.

INT. CHET'S APARTMENT - DAY

A hand grabs a beer from the fridge.

Will heads into the living room with the beer. The voice

belongs to Danny Glover. The guys are watching Lethal Weapon.

Murtaugh (Danny Glover) has just stopped Riggs (Mel Gibson)

from killing himself. Riggs looks at him, crazily, before -

Chet looks over at Will. He is drunk, and in a dark mood.

Will drains half his beer.

Chet pauses the movie.

Chet chuckles. Will ignores him, sips his beer.

At a loss, Will shrugs. Chet turns back to the TV, presses

play. Lethal Weapon resumes. Something blows up. Chet

pauses the movie and stares at Will for a beat.

You sneaky son of a bitch...you want

to fuck my sister, don't you?

Chet, I really don't...

My twin sister!? Which is basically

like fucking me!

Hey, if you guys had that twin ESP

shit this would be a completely

different situation. There'd be

logistical problems.

We look exactly alike!

You look like a lot of people. You're

a normal looking dude.

This is so fucked up I can't even

begin to process it. How long has

this been going on?

If I had to put my finger on

it...middle school-ish.

So all those sleepovers, they were

just some kind of opportunity for

you to peek in Kate's bedroom?

It might have happened a few times.

Most of them were accidental.

You're a peeping Tom. You realize

that, don't you? You're a sexual

fucking deviant.

Fuck you. I'm as normal as they

come. Your sister is attractive.

She excites me, in a sexual way.

Fucking sue me. Can't we just be

adults about it?

Chet bites his lip.

Will bows.

Chet's face is red with anger.

Will takes a swing at Chet. He dodges it and puts Will in

some sort of choke hold.

Will flexes and tries to break the choke hold...no luck. He

wrenches his back away from Chet and screams -

Chet lets Will go. He drops to the floor, panting.

Will gets to his feet.

Will storms out.

EXT. CHET'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

Will screeches away in his car.

INT. STUDIO APARTMENT - NIGHT

A day or so has passed. Will sits on his couch, an unshaven

mess, watching Lethal Weapon 2. Murtaugh and Riggs laugh

and joke around. Best buds.

Will looks like he might cry. He goes for his beer, knocks

it over. He stares at the growing puddle of beer...then

grabs the folder with his college applications and uses them

to sop it up.

INT. GIORGIO'S TRATTORIA - NIGHT

Will sits at a table, looking out through the misty window.

Christopher boxes a pizza and drops it in front of him.

Christopher hands him the order slip. Will checks the address.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Will's Mustang travels down a dark, empty stretch of highway.

The lone working taillight fades as the car disappears into

the distance.

EXT. SIDE OF THE HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Mustang stops at the mouth of a driveway. Overgrown

shrubbery blocks anything beyond it from view. All that

Will can see is a red and white radio tower jutting into the

sky, beacon light flashing atop it.

Will checks the address, then drives through the open gate.

EXT. RADIO TOWER - NIGHT

The Mustang parks at the end of the driveway. Will gets out.

There is a large storage shed and, across a clearing, a radio

tower built on top of a small office structure.

The office door is ajar. Florescent light glows from inside.

This puts Will at ease. He heads toward the office. As he

gets close, a figure appears in the doorway. It is Dwayne

WEARING A SCARY FUCKING GORILLA MASK

Will hears something behind him and whirls around -

To find Jay, also in a gorilla mask, charging at him.

Will makes a run for it. But the guys are on top of him in

no time. He madly fights them off and dashes for his car.

Will breaks toward the cover of the shrubbery.

Jay is right on Will's tail. Without breaking stride, Jay

picks up a large branch and wings it at him.

Will is hit in the legs and stumbles over himself. Jay leaps

on top of him and locks his skinny legs around Will's body.

Jay wrestles something from his pocket. A chloroform soaked

rag. He presses it hard against Will's mouth and nose.

Will soon goes limp.

Dwayne appears, looming above them. He pulls his gorilla

mask back and smiles.

Blurry vision coming into focus. Two gorillas.

EXT. RADIO TOWER - DAY

Whereas the masks looked scary at night, they look ridiculous

now. Will is propped up on the hood of his car, staring at

his captors. His mouth is duct taped, hands bound behind his

back. He wears his "Giorgio's" cap and a buttoned up olive

green Army jacket.

Will mumbles something through the duct tape.

Will nods. Dwayne holds up his driver license.

Will looks down at the jacket he is wearing, tries to get

his hands loose so he can tear it open.

Will stiffens. For emphasis, Dwayne reveals the gun tucked

down the front of his pants like a big metal cock.

Jay carefully unbuttons the Army jacket. Will is, in fact,

wearing an explosive vest. It is a cobbled together but

intimidating looking contraption, crisscrossed by multicolored

wires. There is a thick lock at the hinge, with a digital

display and a keypad.

Will begins to hyperventilate.

Will nods. Dwayne rips the duct tape off his mouth.

Dwayne chuckles.

Dwayne shakes his head like Will is an idiot.

Jay turns to Will.

Dwayne nods at the timer on the side of the vest.

He hands Will a slip of paper.

Dwayne looks over to where an oversized stuffed bear, rigged

with its own bomb vest, sits on a tree stump 20 yards away.

Dwayne mimes answering a phone -

Jay pushes a button on a detonator. Teddy Ruxpin explodes.

All that remains is a cloud of stuffing.

Will is frozen in fear.

Dwayne throws Will his car keys.

Dwayne pulls out the gun and fires two shots at Will's feet.

Jay jumps backward, as does Will, who hits the hood of his

car, slides across it and onto the ground by the driver side.

Will awkwardly gets to his feet and arranges himself in the

car, adjusting to the weight of the bomb. As he starts the

engine and backs away -

Once the car is gone, Jay yanks off his gorilla mask. Dwayne

stays primate.

Dwayne gets right in Jay's face. The plastic eyes of his

mask betray no emotion.

A tense beat. Dwayne pulls his mask off. He looks oddly calm.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Will's car flies down the road. It screeches to a stop,

tires smoking. Will jumps out, stumbles to the shoulder and

pukes. He drops to his knees.

Nothing but the wind.

Will fights back tears. He gets to his feet, wipes his mouth.

He takes out his cell phone, scrolls through the contacts.

He pauses on Chet's name...presses send.

The line goes to voicemail. Will looks at the bomb's timer:

7 hours, 47 minutes and counting. He hurries to his car.

INT. CLASSROOM, JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

A laser dot dances around the middle of a United States map.

Chet is teaching a history lesson to a bunch of SEVENTH

GRADERS that look very mature and very bored. As he indicates

with his laser pointer -

The class giggles. Chet, embarrassed, puts away the pointer.

There is a knock at the door. Chet turns to see Will's face

in the door's window pane. He looks back to his class.

Chet opens the door.

Chet sighs.

INT. HALLWAY, JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Chet leads a jumpy Will into

INT. EMPTY CLASSROOM, JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Chet shuts the door behind them. Will paces.

Will swallows hard.

Chet just stares at Will, unimpressed.

Will steps in Chet's way. He unbuttons his jacket, revealing

the bomb.

Will nods.

Chet jumps backward, stumbles over a desk and scurries on

his ass to the other end of the classroom. He presses himself

flat against the wall.

Will backs all the way up, so that the guys are on opposite

ends of the classroom.

Chet looks Will over. His desperation is palpable. Chet

bites his lip, weighing the situation...

Chet takes a step toward Will.

Will just looks at Chet...unable to offer any assurance.

After a beat -

Will opens the door, stops, looks back at Chet.

Will heads out. Chet takes a breath, bracing himself.

INT. HALLWAY, JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Will walks down the empty hallway. He glances back over his

shoulder, where Chet walks several feet behind him.

Will stops, turns back toward Chet.

Will sighs, turns back around. A second later, the school

bell rings and kids flood the hallway, changing classes.

Will freezes. Multiple kids shove past him. Chet sweats

bullets, gives Will a look of death.

After a beat, the hallway empties again.

Will continues walking. He tries to lighten the mood -

The guys' voices fade as they continue down the hallway...

EXT. JUNIOR HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

The guys get to Will's car. Chet wraps up a call on his cell -

Chet hangs up. He is standing by the passenger door. He

looks over the roof of the car at Will.

Will sighs.

Will gets in the car and shuts the door. He looks out at

Chet, who stands uncertainly by the passenger side.

Chet reluctantly hops in.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

Will fires up the engine.

Will pulls out of the school parking lot.

Will goes to turn on the radio. Chet grabs his hand.

Will heaves a frustrated sigh. Chet eases up.

The car hits a rough pothole. Chet's heart skips a beat -

- and he throws himself against the passenger side window,

as far from Will as the confines of the car will allow.

Will slams the brakes.

Chet makes the sign of the cross.

Will continues driving. Chet discreetly unlocks the passenger

side door.

The guys continue driving in silence.

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 6 hours, 59 minutes...

INT. BATHROOM, CHET'S APARTMENT - DAY

The door is shut. Will sits on the toilet lid. He has the

jacket off and we get our first complete look at the vest.

The actual structure is composed of hollow metal tubes. The

wiring that runs throughout the vest is messy and complicated,

purposely so, to scare anyone out of fucking with it.

Will is in the process of trying to contort his arm so he

can slide the vest off...no luck.

He is calling off toward the

Where Chet is crouched in a corner, at the furthest point in

the furthest room from the bathroom. He uses his laptop to

look for websites on disarming a bomb.

Will emerges from the bathroom, sliding the jacket back on.

Chet shuts his laptop.

Will stares at Chet, hopelessly overwhelmed.

Will drops onto the couch and puts his head in his hands,

fighting hysterics. Chet offers a stock reassurance -

Chet looks on as his friend begins to sob. It's a crushing

sight. Chet strides across the apartment -

- and attempts to give him one of those "get a grip" slaps.

But Will flinches and Chet slaps him right on the ear.

Will pauses.

Chet cracks a smile.

Chet heaves a sigh.

THE GRILLE OF A MURDERED OUT 1997 NISSAN SENTRA

As the car pulls into

EXT. BACK PARKING LOT, DIVE STRIP CLUB - DAY

Where Juicy waits by the service entrance, smoking a

cigarette. She spots the car and runs over. It parks and

the door opens. A glassy-eyed African-American man (30s)

steps out. His muscled body is covered in calligraphic prison

ink. This is VAUGHN.

Juicy throws her arms around him.

Vaughn stares at her.

Juicy gets in the open driver side door and makes a show of

crawling over into the passenger seat.

INT. WALMART - DAY

Fluorescent lights and pop music. Will and Chet roam the

aisles with a full shopping basket. They turn into the

"Sports & Fitness" section, where they find a variety of air

pistols. They are incredibly realistic, though clear and

with orange nozzles.

A check out conveyor belt, as the guys' purchases drift past:

air pistols, spray paint, ski masks, leather gloves, several

5-Hour Energy drinks.

The tough REGISTER WOMAN looks at the guys with abject disgust.

Will looks in his empty wallet, takes out a credit card.

Chet grabs his hand.

INT. MINIVAN - DAY

The van is parked. Dwayne sits behind the wheel. Metallica's

"Ride the Lightning" begins to play loudly.

Dwayne ejects the tape, tosses it at Jay in the passenger seat.

Dwayne shakes his head. He turns and looks out the windshield:

they're parked in the Walmart lot, watching the store entrance.

Dwayne surveys the area. Something catches his attention:

the bland strip mall across the street. There's a Blockbuster,

Subway, and an empty space in between. Dwayne smiles.

Jay checks it out, nods.

Dwayne spots the Mustang pulling away.

He throws the van into gear.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

Will navigates the streets. Chet is in the back seat, where

he has newspaper spread out and is spray painting the air

pistols, and much of the car, black.

Chet touches up one of the guns, goes to flip it over.

Chet drops the spray paint, whirls on Will.

Will seethes. He whips the car over to the side of the road

and gets in Chet's face.

Chet looks at Will, expectantly.

Will sits there, stewing for a moment. Then he softens -

An awkward moment passes.

Will turns back around, goes to pull out without looking and -

A horn blares as a speeding delivery truck barrels right at

them. Will slams the brakes, barely avoiding a collision.

As Chet continues to freak -

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 5 hours, 15 minutes...

EXT. THE FISHERS' GARAGE - DAY

Will keeps watch of the house. Chet squeezes through a garage

window he has pried open.

INT. THE FISHERS' GARAGE - DAY

Chet drops ungracefully to the floor, right beside a well

maintained 1977 Datsun 240Z.

Chet hurries over and unlocks the side door. Will enters,

hauling the Walmart bag of supplies. He goes right for a

set of hooks on the wall.

The guys ransack the garage. Chet knocks over a shelf full

of clutter.

Will goes to the car and tries the handle. It's open. He

scours the interior.

Chet peeks through the glass pane in the door.

As he looks for an escape -

Will hops out of the car. He rifles through the Walmart bag.

Will pulls the ski masks out of the bag, along with one of

the freshly painted air pistols.

Will puts a ski mask on, then throws one to Chet. The door

opens and MR. FISHER (60s) enters. Chet quickly pulls down

his mask. It's backwards.

Will levels the pistol -

Mr. Fisher braces himself against a wall. Chet fumbles to

turn his mask around. Will affects a deep voice -

Mr. Fisher reaches into his pocket and produces the keys.

They jingle as he holds them out in his trembling hand.

Will snatches them.

Will seems unconvinced. He looks to Chet, who shrugs. Will

turns back to Mr. Fisher and gestures violently with the gun -

Mr. Fisher hits a switch that raises the garage door. Chet

grabs their stuff and gets in the passenger side. Will backs

toward the driver side.

Mr. Fisher nods.

Will slides into the car and starts it up.

EXT. THE FISHERS' GARAGE - DAY

The car peels away.

INT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING

The guys yank off their ski masks.

Chet tries to get comfortable in the seat.

Will works the manual transmission. He steps on the gas.

Will nervously drums his fingers on the steering wheel, trying

to figure out how to say -

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

The Datsun pulls around and parks in back.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL the minivan parking across the street.

INT. MINIVAN - DAY

Dwayne and Jay watch Will hurry out of the Datsun.

Dwayne pulls out his cell phone, punches in the speed dial

code. His finger hovers above the send button.

Dwayne smirks.

As Jay reaches for the door handle -

Dwayne rummages in the back of the car, produces a shopping

bag and starts filling it with random clothes strewn across

the car. He shoves the bag at Jay.

Jay nods, hops out with the bag and slams the door.

Dwayne looks down at the cell phone in his hand, twirls it

as he hums a revival song...sings the lyrics, softly -

INT. STAIRWELL, OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Will runs up the stairs, a phone pressed to his ear -

EXT. ROOF, OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

You can see the entire shitty town from up here. The access

door opens and Kate emerges, wind tousling her short hair.

Will waves at her from where he is standing, way across on

the other side of the roof. Kate starts toward him.

Will takes out his cell phone and dials. Kate's phone rings.

She answers it, confused.

We STAY on Will. We can see Kate, standing 30 feet away,

but her voice comes over Will's cell phone, with a delay

that is slightly jarring.

Kate's voice falters -

Kate is barely holding it together.

Kate manages a small, stifled laugh.

Kate nods. Will hangs up the phone. She turns back toward

the access door, stops. She yells across the roof at Will -

Will smiles, yells back -

Kate turns and continues to the access door.

INT. STAIRWELL, OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Jay paces about the landing that leads up to the roof. He

hears the door opening and hurries down to the entrance for

the nearest floor. He tries the door, but it's locked.

Kate enters the stairwell from the roof access door and spots

Jay trying to force the door open. She is holding back tears.

He just looks incredibly confused.

Kate continues down the stairs, tears coming now. Jay waits

a beat, then hurries down and tries the door on the next

level, which is open.

INT. MINIVAN - DAY

Jay jumps in the van, huffing and puffing.

INT. DATSUN - DAY

Will, galvanized by the exchange, hops inside.

Will throws the car into gear and pulls away.

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 4 hours, 10 minutes...

EXT. PARKING LOT, DONNER-WELLS NATIONAL BANK - DAY

The Datsun is parked in the half-full lot. The guys lean

against the driver side, with their backs to the bank and

the car providing cover. They each have a spray painted air

pistol tucked into their pants.

Chet clasps his hands around his stomach.

Chet reigns it in. The guys slide on the leather gloves and

rolled up ski masks. They turn and stride toward the bank.

The guys stop as they get to the door. They pull the ski

masks down and take out their air pistols.

INT. DONNER-WELLS NATIONAL BANK - DAY

It's business as usual for a dozen CUSTOMERS and about as

many EMPLOYEES. They all just want to get done with their

shit and go home, when -

Will and Chet burst through the bank doors, guns in hand.

Will and Chet are on an adrenaline high, waving their guns

everywhere. People scream.

Will frantically scans the panicked crowd for -

The SECURITY GUARD (40s), rail thin and jumpy. Will points

his gun right at him.

As people drop to the ground, whispering nervously to one

Chet rushes the TELLERS standing behind the bulletproof glass

partition.

The Tellers hurry into the main area of the bank and get

onto their stomachs.

Will looks to the Guard.

The Guard takes out his gun, lays it on the ground and shoves

it away. The gun slides across the waxed floor and -

Right into the outstretched hand of a sobbing MOM (40s),

whose DAUGHTER (11) lies beside her in a soccer uniform.

The Mom slides the gun away like it were on fire. It skids

all the way across the floor, slams hard against a wall and

BLAM!

A FAT MAN has been shot. He clutches his thigh.

Chet turns ashen. He moves close to Will, whispers urgently -

Nothing. Just the heavy breathing of many frightened people.

Will hurries over to the Fat Man, who is bent over, hugging

his leg.

The Fat Man sits up, removes his hand from his leg. Will

nervously takes a look. There is only a small amount of

blood.

Chet snaps back to attention -

Chet picks out the most harmless looking teller, a mousy 20-

something girl, and helps her up off the ground. He checks

her name tag: SANDRA.

Sandra nods. Chet smiles, reassuringly. She hurries behind

the counter, starts filling a bank bag with cash, as -

Sandra emerges from behind the partition with the bank bag.

Will grabs it. He takes a last look at the people spread

across the floor.

Will crosses to the Fat Man, offers the bank bag.

The Fat Man hesitantly reaches for the bag. Opens it -

Red Dye explodes all over his face. He shrieks. Chet whirls

on the teller.

Sandra hurries back behind the partition with Chet. He dumps

out the contents of a trash can, grabs the bag and watches

closely as Sandra stuffs it with cash.

Chet grabs the bag and hustles out toward Will. They are

home free, until -

They hear the wail of approaching sirens outside. They stop

cold, panicked. Will whirls on the Tellers.

Another teller, MARK, looks up from the floor.

Will loses his shit -

People are freaked out. Sandra is crying, thinking she will

probably get shot now.

Chet grabs Will and pulls him toward the door.

The guys slam through the doors, out into

EXT. PARKING LOT, DONNER-WELLS NATIONAL BANK - DAY

Just as a lone police cruiser screeches into the lot. Will

and Chet make a run for it, but the cruiser cuts them off.

OFFICER ZURMAN (21), a jittery rookie, jumps out of the cruiser

and levels his gun. The guys reflexively level theirs.

Chet looks at Will with utter desperation. In the distance,

they hear the sirens of more cops approaching. Will tosses

his gun, rips open his jacket and grabs a cluster of wires.

Zurman doesn't stick around for the rest. He turns and

sprints away.

As the guys make for the Datsun -

The guys jump in the Datsun and peel out as two more police

cruisers race toward the bank. The cruisers change course

and give chase. The Datsun blows right by the parked

INT. MINIVAN - DAY

Dwayne watches as the cars speed off into the distance.

Dwayne whirls on Jay, punches him hard in the shoulder.

Jay massages his shoulder, pissed.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Whiplash blur as the three cars race by, one after the other.

Airborne leaves flutter in their wake.

INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING

Chet freaks out as they hurtle toward lunchtime traffic.

Will weaves in and out of cars.

Will is wild eyed, punching the gas. Chet's head is on a

swivel. Behind them: police cruisers in hot pursuit. Up ahead:

the world rushing at them at 80 mph, populated by nothing but

potential collisions that will result in a fiery death.

As they clip the side-view mirror off a Kia -

The cruisers are gaining ground, throttles wide open.

Will downshifts, spiking the RPMs into the red, as he banks

a hard right and

EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The Datsun explodes onto a crowded street. PEDESTRIANS

crossing an intersection jump out of its way.

The cruisers take the turn into town. One makes it. The

other slams into parked cars.

INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING

Will jumps the curb to avoid slow-moving traffic, slams into a

newspaper dispenser. It flips up onto the hood and crashes

into the windshield, where it stays lodged.

Will veers back into the street and blindly plows ahead as

cars he cannot see swerve to avoid him.

He finally slams the brakes, the momentum knocking the

dispenser loose and launching it onto the sidewalk, scattering

Pedestrians.

Chet whirls around to see the cruiser flying right at them.

Will steps on the gas. The light ahead turns red.

Will rolls the dice and blows through the intersection.

He's lucky. The cruiser behind him is not. It's T-boned by

traffic in a brutal, crunching collision.

INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING

The cruiser wreckage disappears in the rear-view mirror as

Will floors it toward a green light.

In the rushing moment as they cross the intersection, Chet

glimpses the other cruiser barreling toward his side of the

car from the perpendicular street. He has a millisecond,

maybe, to process their impending doom, and then -

The cruiser smashes into the back passenger side of the car.

EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The Datsun is sent spinning like a fucking top. Its ruined

back wheel catches, sending the car tumbling onto its roof.

INT./EXT. DATSUN - DAY - MOVING

Madness. The guys scream as the car continues to slide,

upside down, out of control. As it slams into a row of

parking meters, the world goes

Will blinks back to reality. He's hanging, inverted, by his

seat belt. The car is a pool of shattered glass. It twinkles

up at him. Hours could have passed, but it's only been

seconds. He sucks in air. Satisfied that he is, in fact,

still alive, he looks over at -

A battered and bruised Chet, head drooping straight back.

Will's hands go to the bomb...still intact.

Will unclicks his seat belt and falls to the roof of the

car. He moves to Chet, unclicks his belt and helps him down.

EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

Will emerges from the overturned car. He drags Chet out,

along with the bag of cash. He glances up to see the OFFICER

who crashed into them stumbling out of his own ruined car,

which has turned a fire hydrant into a geyser. Another

cruiser races to the scene.

Will pulls Chet to his feet and they take off, rounding a

EXT. ALLEY - DAY

As Will huffs and puffs -

Chet glances back to see a jagged piece of metal sticking

out of his shoulder blade.

Without breaking stride, Will yanks the piece of metal out

of Chet's back. He screams.

Behind them, two Officers turn into the alley in full sprint.

They are way faster than the guys and soon gain on them.

Will can barely keep up with Chet.

They burst out of the alley, onto

EXT. STREET - DAY

The guys frantically search for an escape, spot -

A bus pulling up to a stop down the street.

They sprint for the the bus, peeling off their ski masks and

waving as it lazily rolls away from the stop.

The bus slows and the guys trip over each other to board it.

INT. BUS - DAY - MOVING

The guys fall into seats, gasping for air, a complete mess.

Will looks out the window to see the Officers emerge from

the alley and look around for them.

EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

A crowd has grown around the crash sites. Fire trucks and

ambulances are on the scene.

Dwayne and Jay make their way through the crowd, trying to

see what's what. Dwayne approaches a RANDOM LOCAL.

Dwayne and Jay beam.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAY

The guys are covered in sweat as they hike along, eyes on

the lookout. They arrive at Will's parked Mustang. Will

hugs the car.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

The guys get in. They sit there for a moment, silent except

for their heavy breathing. Will's eyes go to the garbage

bag sitting between them.

Will starts to get a little emotional.

Chet smiles.

Will goes in for a hug. Chet gets lost in the moment, before

recoiling.

Will pulls the slip of paper Dwayne gave him from his pocket.

Will takes out his cell and dials the number.

EXT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

Dwayne and Jay cross toward a McDonald's. Dwayne stops and

answers his vibrating cell phone.

Will goes white, covers the phone and whispers to Chet -

Dwayne is holding back laughter. Finally bursts out.

Dwayne hangs up. He dials another number -

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The Mustang shrieks past us.

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 2 hours, 58 minutes...

INT. MCDONALD'S - DAY

Dwayne and Jay sit at a table with a fast food feast spread

out. Dwayne eats a Big Mac, a look of utter satisfaction on

his face, a man whom the gods have finally smiled down upon.

Dwayne goes for a fry, sees his carton is empty and grabs a

handful of Jay's.

Jay looks pretty affected that Dwayne is opening up to him.

Dwayne takes out his cell, keys in the speed dial code and

slides the cell across the table to Jay.

Dwayne stares hard at Jay. A tense beat.

Dwayne cracks a smile.

Dwayne heads off. Jay eyes the cell phone he has left behind.

EXT. BOARDED UP GAS STATION - DAY

Weeds have overtaken the abandoned place. Will leans against

his parked car, waiting. Chet is nowhere to be seen.

Will spots Vaughn's Sentra approach. It pulls into the

station and Vaughn steps. He could not look more menacing.

Juicy hangs back in the passenger seat.

Will picks up the garbage bag at his feet and walks it over

to Vaughn. He opens it, looks in.

Vaughn grins.

Vaughn turns to leave. Will grabs his arm. Vaughn stops,

looks purposefully down at Will's hand. Will draws back.

Will opens his jacket. Vaughn takes a sudden step back.

Vaughn goes to leave again. Will runs ahead of him and gets

in his way.

In an instant, Vaughn has his gun out, aimed at Will's head.

INT. SENTRA - DAY

Juicy looks on with interest as Vaughn holds Will at gunpoint.

Then she spots

EXT. BOARDED UP GAS STATION - DAY

Chet creeping up behind Vaughn, from wherever he was hiding,

clutching a large metal pipe.

Juicy jumps out of the Sentra.

Vaughn whirls around toward Chet, just in time to have his

gun arm smashed by the pipe. The weapon drops from his hand.

Chet takes another swing, cracking Vaughn across the face.

He howls, blood spraying, and topples over. Chet goes for

another swing, when -

Juicy jumps on him, wildly biting and clawing.

Will grabs the back of Juicy's track jacket for leverage and

flings her away. She hits the back of the Sentra and careens

clear across the trunk.

Will grabs the money. Chet kicks Vaughn's gun into the

bushes. The guys break for the Mustang and get in.

Juicy gets to her feet, runs right by a dazed Vaughn and

after the car, which pulls out into the road and leaves her

behind, screaming and cursing.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

Will's mind is racing.

INT. JAY'S GARAGE WORKSHOP - DAY

A tidy space, filled with various half-finished devices,

action figures and heavy metal posters. A low mechanical

hum registers.

Dwayne sits on a stool in the center of the garage, while

Jay carefully trims his hair with an electric clipper. Dwayne

holds up a mirror to check out his work.

Dwayne's phone chimes from a nearby counter. He grabs it,

looks at the incoming number, slightly concerned. He answers -

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

Will yells into the phone -

Dwayne is panicked, covers badly -

Chet freaks out -

Dwayne is getting pissed off.

The line goes dead. Dwayne tears off his haircut smock.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY - MOVING

Chet grabs the wheel and forces Will to pull over.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Chet jumps out while the Mustang is still slowing down. He

runs 20 yards away. Will turns the car off and gets out.

INT. JAY'S GARAGE WORKSHOP - DAY

Dwayne tries Will's phone again. It goes to voicemail. He

explodes like a pack of Mentos in a two-liter of Diet Coke.

Throws his cell across the room. Overturns a work table.

Jay retreats into a corner. Dwayne's a big boy, and he soon

tires himself out, hunches over, panting.

Dwayne shakes his head. Starts digging through the mess

he's made...finds his phone.

Dwayne keys in the speed dial code.

Dwayne looks down at the send button.

Dwayne hits send.

But Dwayne notices something...the phone in his hand is

ringing. He puts it to his ear. The line connects -

Dwayne snaps the phone shut, looks to Jay, who tries to will

the beads of sweat back into his pores.

Dwayne charges Jay. Jay holds up the hair clippers like a

weapon, flicks them on. Dwayne rips the cord out of the

wall, uses it to yank the clippers from Jay's hand, then

whips him with the cord.

Dwayne goes to whip Jay again, but Jay moves like a jack rabbit

and delivers a fierce kidney shot. Dwayne stumbles backward,

falls onto the couch, groans -

Dwayne's phone rings in his pocket.

Jay pulls the cell from Dwayne's pocket...opens it and puts

it to his ear so he can answer -

EXT. BOARDED UP GAS STATION - DAY

Vaughn has a rag pressed to his swollen, bloody face. Juicy

is nearby, banged up and dirty. Vaughn yells into his cell -

Dwayne realizes who's on the other line, recovers -

Vaughn paces, furious.

Vaughn hangs up, tosses the bloody rag to the ground and

screams in frustration.

INT. JAY'S GARAGE WORKSHOP - DAY

Dwayne looks down at his phone.

Dwayne cradles his arms around his wounded kidney, rocks

back and forth, wallowing in defeat.

Jay gathers his resolve.

Dwayne looks up at Jay with something not unlike awe.

Dwayne lowers his head. He removes the gun from his

belt...holds it out to Jay. Jay takes it. Feels its weight.

Then offers it back.

Dwayne takes the gun. Struggles to stand. Jay helps him.

Dwayne looks over at a frame backpack hanging from a hook on

the wall. PVC piping bulges from it.

EXT. SIDE OF THE ROAD - DAY

Will and Chet sit on the ground, still 20 yards apart. Chet

checks his watch.

Chet gestures to the vast emptiness all around them.

Will looks at Chet for a beat.

As the guys continue to argue -

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 1 hour, 28 minutes...

INT. LAW FIRM, OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Kate walks down a hallway, turns into an office. Two figures

rush past from the intersecting hallway and duck behind a

corner.

Kate emerges from the office and continues into

INT. WOMEN'S BATHROOM, OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

Kate goes to the mirror, checks herself out. She's been

crying. She splashes water on her face, then enters a stall.

The bathroom door opens and Dwayne and Jay enter. Dwayne

pulls something hairy from his pocket.

Inside the stall, Kate reaches for some toilet paper...from

underneath the barrier, she notices two pairs of dirty,

masculine sneakers. Her breath goes shallow. She takes out

her cell, quietly opens it. She presses the first 9 in "911,"

but her keypad volume is on and the phone makes a dull,

electronic beep that echoes in the quiet bathroom.

Kate slides the phone out. One of the sneakers crushes it.

She gets off the toilet, arranges her clothing and steps out

out of the stall. She gasps at -

The two ominous men standing there in gorilla masks. Dwayne's

gun is plainly visible, tucked into the front of his pants.

EXT. LIVING ROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY

The Major is watching reruns of Three's Company. He doesn't

laugh or remotely smile at any of it.

The subtle click of a door opening does not escape his finely

tuned senses.

Nothing. The Major gets up and goes to a desk, rifles through

a drawer and pulls something out. A simple pen. He clutches

it like a weapon.

INT. HALLWAY, NICE HOUSE - DAY

The Major creeps along.

The Major turns to find Vaughn pointing a gun at him.

If this news has any effect at all on The Major, he doesn't

show it.

Vaughn pulls back the hammer of his gun.

Vaughn shakes his head. Almost imperceptibly, The Major

repositions the hand with the pen in it. Vaughn is about to

squeeze the trigger -

But The Major beats him to it, clicking the pen, which is

actually a pen gun. It fires a .22 caliber round into Vaughn's

neck. He drops the gun and clutches the geyser of blood.

The Major charges Vaughn, jumps on him and wrestles him to

the ground, trying to jam the pen into the wound in his neck.

Vaughn reaches for his gun. His fingers curl around it and

he whips it across The Major's face, knocking him backwards.

Vaughn scrambles to his feet, gun pointed at the felled Major.

The Major looks up at Vaughn, once again face to face with a

loaded weapon.

BANG!

The Major goes limp, one searing hole in his chest.

Vaughn clasps a hand to his neck to staunch the flow of blood.

He steps over the The Major's body and continues upstairs.

INT. BATHROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY

Vaughn rifles through the cabinets, dumps all of the first

aid supplies into the sink. He gets to work on his wound.

INT. DWAYNE'S ROOM, NICE HOUSE - DAY

The locked door is kicked open. Vaughn, neck crudely

bandaged, flicks on the lights and looks around the childish

room. Chinese Fighting Fish swim in a large tank, seem to

stop and look out at him like guard dogs.

Vaughn ransacks the place. He finds a desk drawer locked.

Takes out his gun and blows it open.

Vaughn pulls a stuffed file folder out of the drawer. Flips

through it. It's full of details about Dwayne's plan, the

tanning salon, etc.

He finds a map of the town in the file. Three locations are

highlighted: the bank, the boarded up gas station, and the

radio tower. PUSH IN on the radio tower.

Vaughn stuffs the map into his pocket. He stops before leaving

the room, turns and shatters the fish tank with the butt of

his gun. Water spills out and the Chinese Fighting Fish flop

onto the floor. As Vaughn lifts a boot to stomp them -

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Will and Chet are still arguing -

Will stews. After a beat, his hand goes to his pocket.

It's vibrating. He pulls out his cell.

Will answers -

INT. MINIVAN - DAY - MOVING

Dwayne drives with his cell pressed to his ear. Jay keeps

watch on Kate in back. She is blindfolded, hands bound behind

her back with duct tape.

Will's mind jumps to the only logical conclusion. Roller

coaster stomach drop. His voice cracks as he asks a useless

Dwayne just laughs, maniacally.

Dwayne hands the phone back to Jay, who puts it to Kate's

ear. She is trembling.

Dwayne snatches the phone.

Will absorbs this like a blow to the chest. The line

disconnects.

Chet grabs the bag of cash. They hustle into the car and it

peels out, leaving behind a swirling cloud of dust. As the

sun begins to set -

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 58 minutes...

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Two menacing headlights come at us on the empty road. They

INT. SENTRA - NIGHT - MOVING

Vaughn holds up Dwayne's map as he drives. He seems to be

on the right road, headed for the radio tower. He crumples

the map and throws it in back.

EXT. SIDE OF THE HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Mustang stops by the gate to the radio tower. Chet jumps

out and disappears into the bushes.

EXT. RADIO TOWER - NIGHT

The Mustang pulls up. Will gets out and looks around the

deserted place. He holds up the money bag.

In the shadow of the nearby shed, the minivan is revealed as

its interior lights come on. The door opens and Dwayne

emerges, in his mask.

Will takes off the jacket and tosses it to the ground. He

looks at the timer.

The guys meet in a clearing. Dwayne nods at the bag.

Dwayne grins.

Will grips the bag close to him.

Dwayne whistles. The minivan door opens and Jay steps out.

Strapped to his back is the frame pack we saw at his workshop.

A long tube connects the pack to the handle of a metal pipe-

like device in his hand.

Jay helps Kate, still bound and blindfolded, out of the van.

They approach Dwayne and take up position behind him.

Jay aims the metal device he has been holding. He hits a

button and a pilot light comes on.

Dwayne roughly pulls Kate away from Jay and shoves her

forward. Will grabs her, pulls her blindfold off and pushes

her behind him.

Dwayne pulls a slip of paper from his pocket.

Will keys in the numbers. The timer freezes and the lock at

the hinge opens. Will carefully extricates himself from the

vest. He lays it down on the ground and steps away from it.

His shirt is drenched in sweat from where the bomb sat.

Will takes a final look at the money bag, then throws it to

Dwayne. He looks inside, smiles. Jay takes a peak.

Dwayne looks up at Will.

Before Dwayne can react, he stops and blinks, something

shining in his eyes.

Dwayne's eyes turn upward, just barely making out the red

dot that dances on his forehead.

In the bushes, hidden from sight, Chet carefully aims his

laser pointer at Dwayne's forehead.

Will grins at Dwayne.

As Will turns away -

Vaughn emerges from the darkness. He looks at Will.

Without warning, Vaughn cracks Will over the head with the

butt of his gun. He goes down hard. Kate screams. Vaughn

points the gun at her and she shuts up.

Dwayne steps forward with the bag.

Dwayne complies. As soon as the bag lands, Vaughn aims the

gun at him.

Kate looks on, terrified, an unconscious Will at her side.

Vaughn's eyes burn a hole through Dwayne.

Panicked, Dwayne's eyes flash over to Jay, who tightens his

grip on the flamethrower handle. Jay catches Dwayne's eye.

Dwayne nods. Vaughn sees this.

Jay rears up with the flamethrower. Vaughn couldn't be more

surprised to see the device Jay is holding spit a massive

ball of fire at him.

Vaughn dives to the ground, fires off two wild shots, one of

Nails Dwayne in the shoulder, spinning him backward and

knocking him off his feet.

Kate recoils in horror as: Vaughn scurries madly on the

ground, intermittently firing, while Jay screams and tries

to torch him with the 25-foot flame. A hand touches Kate's

shoulder and she whirls around to find -

Kate looks to the empty spot beside her where Will just was.

Flames inches from him, Vaughn lines up a desperate shot -

Good news: the bullet only grazes Jay's side. Bad news: it

keeps going and punches through the flamethrower backpack,

which happens to be filled with gasoline, which happens to

have an incredibly low flash point. So the spark from, say,

a bullet, would cause

AN ERUPTION OF FLAMES

Meanwhile, Will pops up behind Chet and Kate, clutching the

garbage bag.

They take off toward Will's car.

Dwayne groggily comes to...no SOUND, just a ringing. The

first thing he sees: Vaughn storming toward him, god-knows-

what spewing from his mouth. Vaughn levels his gun -

It doesn't make a sound for two reasons. The second being

that it's out of bullets.

Dwayne fumbles for his own hardware. Muzzle flash.

Vaughn drops to his knees. Pulse snatched from him.

SOUND SLAMS BACK to the tune of Jay's screams. Dwayne looks

over to see his friend in flames, flailing his arms and

shrieking. Dwayne's head snaps to the other side, where he

sees the Mustang's tires peel. He tears off his mask,

frantically looks around. The money is gone.

Jay disentangles himself from the backpack, the source of

the flames, but his clothes are now ablaze. In his frenzy,

he somehow manages to string together two coherent words -

Dwayne gets to his feet as the Mustang roars down the

driveway. He looks to Jay, then to his minivan. Dwayne's

face: Two roads diverge in a wood. Which to take?

Dwayne sprints over to Jay, rips off his jacket and uses it

to beat the flames down.

Jay hits the deck. Dwayne continues fighting the flames,

finally falls on top of Jay with the jacket spread and

smothers the last of them out.

Jay looks up at Dwayne with puppy dog eyes.

Jay smiles. Flames overtake the field all around them.

Dwayne hurries toward the minivan. Jay stumbles up to his

feet and limps off toward the woods.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Mustang travels away from the rising flames.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING

Will's face is a mess of dirt, sweat and dried blood. He

and Chet stare ahead, completely shell-shocked.

Kate looks from one of them to the other.

Something catches Will's attention: a set of headlights

rapidly growing larger in the rear-view mirror.

INT. MINIVAN - NIGHT - MOVING

Dwayne's speedometer is buried past 100 mph. His eyes burn

with intensity.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING

Will hits the gas.

Chet and Kate look out the back window. Chet screams -

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Dwayne's car pulls even with the Mustang.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING

Will looks over at Dwayne, who pulls out his gun and takes

aim. He flashes a sick grin -

Before Dwayne can get a shot off -

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

An explosion rocks the minivan from inside. The back end is

lifted off the ground and the car tumbles over itself. It

lands on its roof and skids into a ditch.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT - MOVING

Chet and Kate watch the burning wreck disappear out the back

window. They are equal parts confused and happy to be alive.

Kate opens the bag...smiles through the dirt and grime.

Chet stews. Will catches Kate's eyes in the rear-view.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The car zooms off.

SUPER COUNTDOWN: 0 hours, 0 minutes...

EXT. DITCH - NIGHT

Wind fans the flames of the burning minivan. The shattered

windshield sprouts another crack...then another, as -

Dwayne's foot kicks it out. He drags himself from the

smoldering steel carcass. He is a charred, blood splattered

mess, but he is alive.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Dwayne is propped up against a sign, lingering on the edge

of consciousness. The headlights of a lone pickup truck

approach. Dwayne feebly waves the truck down for a ride.

INT. NICE HOUSE - NIGHT

The door opens and Dwayne stumbles through. He has made it

home. He drops like a puppet whose strings have been cut.

From where his head has landed on the floor, Dwayne sees

something odd...long red streaks. He crawls forward on all

fours to investigate...

It is a trail of sticky red blood. Dwayne follows it until

he comes upon its source...the crumpled body of his father,

lying face down. Dwayne's face: shock and confusion and joy.

Dwayne inches closer, pokes the body. Nothing.

The body emits a low groan. Dwayne rolls it over. His

father's face is white, he's lost a lot of blood, but he

isn't totally spent yet. He struggles to speak -

This stirs something in The Major.

Dwayne softens at the recollection.

The Major nods. Opens his hand. Reveals a cordless phone.

Dwayne looks to the bloody streaks down the hall, leading to

the phone table. The Major dragged himself the whole way.

The Major looks up at Dwayne's bruised face, as if for the

first time.

Dwayne's eyes well up. He reaches out, cradles his father

as he expires. It's like a very bloody, white trash version

of the Pieta. Dwayne sobs uncontrollably, until -

He drops his father and pound-pound-pounds his chest in some

approximation of a life saving resuscitation.

PULL AWAY as Dwayne pounds the body and distant sirens grow

nearer.

BLACK. THE DARKNESS RIPPLES...

Into waves. It's the ocean, long past sunset. PULL BACK to

find a lone figure staring out at it, sitting on

EXT. BEACH - NIGHT

Will. Shirtless. Could be anywhere.

Chet approaches and sits beside him.

Chet stares out at the ocean for a beat.

Chet just nods. Will gets up.

Will heads up a trail that leads to a hotel bungalow. Kate

opens the door, steps out onto the porch.

Will stops, looks back at Chet. He whistles. Chet turns.

Chet smiles, shakes his head as -

Will reaches the porch. He stands close to Kate. His nerves

clock overtime.

Will closes the gap and kisses her. After a beat -

Kate laughs, leads him inside and the door shuts to -

CREDITS ROLL.

But they are pushed to one side of the screen, as the other

side is filled with -

A lo-fi, 2001-style light tunnel. It deposits us in the

furthest reaches of the galaxy, where we find -

A tanning bed. Rotating in orbit. Dwayne's voice booms and

The tanning bed explodes, like a star gone supernova. From

the light and fire and chaos...emerges a logo:

A bad MATCH CUT takes us to the same logo. Camera ZOOMS OUT

unsteadily to reveal it is a banner above a strip mall

storefront. We are watching a local commercial with

appropriately poor production value.

INT. MAJOR TAN - DAY (LOCAL COMMERCIAL)

Dwayne walks backward down a hallway while addressing camera

and trying not to trip -

Dwayne enters a tanning room. A man in a lab coat stares

down at a clipboard, on which a complicated scientific

equation is written.

The man turns: it's Jay. His smiling face is speckled with

healing burn wounds.

He gestures to a very ordinary looking tanning bed.

Dwayne snaps his fingers. A BAD SPECIAL EFFECT makes him

disappear, then reappear with a totally orange tan.

We follow Dwayne back out into the hallway.

Dwayne gestures to another room. The door opens and Juicy

saunters out in a bikini. A beat later, a RANDOM GUY exits.

EXT. MAJOR TAN - DAY (LOCAL COMMERCIAL)

Dwayne stands outside the store.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL...The Major beside Dwayne. He's only

about four feet tall now, on account of the wheelchair. But

he's grinning like a jackal, in a POW-MIA cap.

A SUPERED LOGO appears: Military Discounts Available!

As father and son smile and wave at us -

END COMMERCIAL.

