FADE IN:

As we wind down the crowded hallway in this typical American

high school...

...we hear all the sounds of a STANDARD PORNO FLICK, from the

unenthusiastic screams of fake ecstasy to the cheesy music.

The sounds echo in the empty hall. Behind the stage a light

from an open door...

The door leads into this room, as we continue on to a

TV MONITOR displaying a sweaty guy's ugly face.

We slowly PULL BACK from the TV.

Finally, we REVEAL our three heroes: MATT, FRED, and DEACON.

They're watching the porno...

... before school with the sound turned way down, but you can

still hear the porno. The three guys are sitting with their

book bags on their laps to conceal any possible bonerage.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     5.

Deacon talks quietly to a DORKY FRESHMAN.

He hands him the money and Deacon makes the exchange for the

tape. The freshman clutches it like gold and scurries away.

Deacon heads out down the hallway towards his locker. He sees

a gaggle of teenage GIRLS gossiping.

Deacon reaches his locker and opens it. He sees some

CHEERLEADERS bouncing down the hallway. Deacon takes out some

books for class.

CLOSE ON a textbook showing the anatomy of the vagina.

PULL BACK to reveal Deacon, seemingly staring into space, but

really staring at...

... his BIOLOGY TEACHER's erect NIPPLES visible through her

conservative bra and blouse. Aside from her flashing

headlights, she's the kind of woman you wouldn't notice even

if you were alone with her on a two-man luge. But that

doesn't matter-- Deacon can't take his eyes off of them.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     6.

BEHIND DEACON

Two GUYS are whispering.

Deacon bolts upright and spins around, concerned.

RACHAEL UNGER, Deacon's girlfriend at the time, is naked

under Deacon's sheets after school one day. Deacon ENTERS

from the bathroom and is immediately surprised by her state

of undress.

She sits up and strikes a sexy pose.

Deacon is becoming very nervous.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                      7.

Suddenly, Rachael becomes a little self-conscious.

She pulls out a condom.

But he's still hesitating.

Deacon looks at her waiting there for him, his for the

taking. An eternity passes. Then,

The Teacher CLEARS HER THROAT and Deacon snaps out of it. He

turns away from the guys behind him as they continue to

describe the John Baldwin incident.

Deacon is suddenly...

... very depressed as he trudges to his locker. Which is

nothing compared to how he feels when he looks

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     8.

DOWN THE HALLWAY

and sees Rachael at her locker, hugging some people good-bye

(including a good-looking guy who must be JOHN BALDWIN).

Rachael looks down the hallway towards Deacon, but Deacon

ducks away.

Now he's even more embittered.

Fred and Matt are walking towards their bikes after school.

Just then, Deacon comes up to them.

He hands out the proceeds from the operation, and Matt

notices that Deacon is a little out of sorts.

Deacon lets out a deep breath.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        10.

Fred and Matt look at Deacon warily. Is this a plan? Then,

the hot girls and Jake drive past the guys.

They laugh, then peel out with the radio blasting.

Just then, a super hot CHEERLEADER drops her car keys and

bends over to pick them up.

Fred adjusts himself.

Fred arrives dressed for work (name tag, shirt, etc.) and

waves to RUSS, the scraggly owner of this small video rental

store.

Fred passes J.T., Mark, Wendy, and Kelly and a bunch of other

CUSTOMERS on his way to the back section of the store.

ADULT SECTION

Fred makes sure Russ isn't looking and ducks into the porno

section. Hurriedly, he pulls out "Half-Cyborg 5: Final

Showdown" from his book bag. But inside the case is the tape

for "Dirty Darla #7." He makes the switch. Fred sighs a

breath of relief, smiles, and walks out of the adult

section...

MAIN AREA

...right into...

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        12.

Fred sits there, whimpering on the ground.

Deacon drives the DMV Tester Car under the watchful eye of

the DMV TESTER.

The unimpressed Tester remains expressionless.

Deacon complies.

The Tester rubs his brow.

FLASH!

Deacon's picture is taken. He passed.

It's dark, but suddenly the lights come on.

Deacon pretends to be surprised.

The room is sparsely populated with a few of Deacon's

RELATIVES, his MOM and DAD, younger brother MAX (14), and

ROGER, a wheelchair-bound nerd with a face full of

orthodontic headgear and braces.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       13.

He hands Deacon a comic book, still in the plastic bag.

Half-eaten cake and ice cream, unwrapped presents. Matt

videotapes the event.

Deacon can hardly contain his excitement.

He follows them, looking back knowingly at Fred and Matt.

The door opens, the lights come on, and Deacon's face drops.

No new car. Instead, several large wrapped boxes. Deacon

halfheartedly rips open the paper.

But his Mom can see his expression.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       14.

Max snickers.

They put their arms around Deacon and smile warmly. Deacon

looks over at his parents' Aerostar Minivan. Everyone moves

back into the house, except Deacon's parents, who linger.

The guys set up the computer. Deacon is really depressed.

Fred elbows him.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        19.

Deacon wanders out back. It's   very dark and there are several

people in the pool, including   Jake's good-looking friends,

Kelly, Wendy, J.T., and MARK.   It's hard to tell in the dark

water, but it looks like they   might not be wearing any

clothes. Deacon sees this and   starts to walk away.

Deacon thinks about it. He takes the metaphorical plunge.

He slips off his shoes and takes off his shirt. He walks over

to the shallow end. Deacon steps in with his shorts still on.

He hesitates, not sure what to do.

Wendy swims into J.T.'s arms. Her shoulders rise above the

water and you can just make out the top of her breast.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        22.

Deacon is once again...

... very depressed, as he sits, bored out of his mind in his

biology class.

Deacon continues to stare at her perpetually hard nipples.

Deacon buries his head in his hands.

Deacon is talking to the Dorky Freshman near the bike rack.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     24.

He looks at Naomi.

She turns her back to Jake and his smile fades. He revs the

engine and peels out BACKWARDS. Deacon jumps out of the way,

but his bike is CRUSHED by the car.

He shifts gears and drives over the bike again. He laughs as

he drives away. Naomi gives Deacon a pitying look and walks

away. The moment is gone. Now Deacon is...

... pissed. His crushed bike is in the back seat.

Deacon is stewing.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                      25.

CLOSE ON a web browser as the following URL is typed in:

www.nicelookinggirlsthatgetnaked4U.com.

The Cyber Granny parental block pops up. Denied.

www.homeroomteachersdoingitbeforeschool.com

Cyber Granny. Denied.

www.ineedfreepornnow.org

Denied.

Deacon bursts into the room.

Matt gives Fred a look.

A crowd of people (including Deacon's biology class) are

watching something in the monkey cage.

She's videotaping it, and Deacon looks up AT HER VIDEO

VIEWFINDER. It's a monkey orgy. Masturbation and fornication

everywhere.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     26.

Just then, a glob of "something" shoots out towards the crowd

(SFX). Everyone ducks, except for Roger, who's can't move

quickly enough in his wheelchair. It hits him in the face,

dripping down his orthodontia.

Fred lights up.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     29.

A look, then Deacon gets up to seal the deal.

Ringing silence.

They look at him. It's perfect.

WE FOLLOW a WOMAN dressed in a Fredericks of Hollywood type

outfit, walking down the hallway past office suites; a

mortgage company, a dentist, etc...

She enters an office. As the door closes behind her, WE SEE

the sign on the door, "Ramalot Productions."

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     30.

A small, vertically integrated porno production company.

Blow-ups of the company's box covers on the walls, hundreds

of copies of titles on shelves, a small STAFF and two

adjoining rooms.

VIC RAMALOT, whose face we recognize from Dirty Darla #7,

enters from the set. His partner, MIKE, helps him on with his

robe.

Vic looks at him, vulnerable.

Vic gives Mike a jive hand shake and the two do a little hug.

Over Mike's shoulder, Vic sees the woman who's come into the

office.

Darla drops her top and heads for the bathroom.

Mike nods, leading Vic through a door, into

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        31.

where there's a terribly FRIGHTENED MAN (cameo for Ron

Jeremy, etc.) tied to a chair with a gag in his mouth.

Vic shakes his head, picking up a pair of rusty hedge

clippers from the table. He snaps them open.

The Man takes a quick look down at his own crotch, fearing

the worst. He shakes his head, pleading through his gag.

The guys are huddled behind the frosted window of Fred's

dad's office, standing away from the RECEPTIONIST.

A NURSE walks in.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       34.

The family dinner.

Mom yawns. The phone rings and she gets it.

Deacon CHOKES on his food. He gets up quickly and grabs the

phone. Max is eyeballing him, so Deacon walks with the phone

into the other room and talks softly.

He hangs up and returns to the kitchen to see the whole

family staring at him, curious.

He forces a smile.

The guys are busy setting up auditions.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     35.

The guys are getting excited.

And there's Matt, wearing a shirt and tie, nervously sitting

in the rec room with a room full of CRACK WHORES.

They're a motley crew of fat, old, toothless, spandex-wearing

streetwalkers (including one TRANSVESTITE).

An uncomfortable silence pervades the room. Matt turns to one

woman wearing a rainbow-colored halter top.

She just looks at him.

Matt picks up his walkie talkie.

He looks at his clipboard and turns to the first woman.

She gets up and walks through the curtain.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     36.

The basement is set up with a casting couch. Fred and Deacon

are also dressed in jackets and ties. The Crack Whore makes

her way over to them. They stare at her, slackjawed.

She tosses a stack of Polaroids at them. The top one has her

standing next to a horse. Fred is speechless.

She's confused.

They look at each other.

The whores are gone.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       37.

They look at him with disdain.

FLASH!

Three digital images of the guys are lined up on Deacon's

computer monitor (thanks Mom and Dad!). Deacon is digitally

altering the photo of Fred to give him a goatee. Matt's photo

has already gotten mutton chops and Deacon's looking sweet

with a fu-manchu.

Matt and Fred look at each other. They shrug, then,

The next night. The three guys walk downstairs dressed in

Hawaiian shirts. Deacon's parents are reading and Max is

watching TV.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       40.

Fred smacks him.

Then,

Deacon pulls out a wad of cash. The Bouncer looks around,

then thinks about it for a second.

WE TRACK the guys as they slowly move down the dark corridor

towards the light. Each guy is in his own little world, Matt

and Fred following Deacon as he takes the first nervous

steps.

First the neon lights hit them, then the smell of liquor and

sweat, the sounds of barroom chatter, and finally the

grinding blast of MUSIC, so powerful it seems to stop them in

their tracks. Their eyes bug out.

SCANTILY-CLAD WAITRESS walking by. As they move further into

the club, they see actual STRIPPERS soliciting lap dances and

some TOPLESS DANCERS onstage. Fred smiles ear to ear.

The guys are locked in a deep primordial trance, broken only

by the voice of a COCKTAIL WAITRESS.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     46.

Deacon wakes up sick as a dog. All the shades are drawn, but

Fred and Matt are already hard at work on the computer. They

seem completely fine, with no signs of Deacon's hangover.

He grabs the yearbook.

INSERT:

ROGER'S FACE, as Balls McLongcock, proudly displayed on the

web site, hawking the first feature film (coming soon) of

After School Special with the motto, "By Virgins, For

Virgins."

A quick knock on the door and Deacon's Mom comes in.

Jake enters, all smiles.

Fred quickly shuts off the monitor.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     48.

He pulls out Ashley's picture from his manila folder. Jake

checks it out. His eyes go wide and suddenly he's their new

best friend.

A beat.

Jake looks him over.

DARKNESS.

Click. The lights come on. The big day has come at last. The

guys are nervously conferring on one side of the room, far

away from Ashley, who's standing alone, dressed in a

conservative high school girl's outfit.

The basement has been transformed into the guys' idea of a

movie set, complete with lights, camera, tripod, and sound

equipment. A desk and decoration make the room look roughly

like the high school yearbook offices.

Deacon gives Matt a little shove, and Matt takes a long walk

over to Ashley.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       55.

CLOSE ON the cover of "T&A Enthusiast" magazine. RISE UP to

reveal a twenty-something MAN thumbing through the issue.

REVEAL

Deacon, standing a little too close to him.

Beat.

Way uncomfortable, the guy puts the magazine down and makes a

beeline for the door.

The guy is out the door. Deacon...

... runs after him.

Matt and Fred are sitting on the curb with some slurpies,

bummed.

Just then, Coop pulls up in his van and gets out.

The guys look at each other...

Moments later, after it's all been explained to Coop.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                      61.

This is too complicated to explain to Matt, so Fred just

gives in.

Amid this raging party, Deacon has taken his rightful place

with the in-crowd, standing dangerously close to Naomi

without his usual sidekicks weighing him down. Finally.

He looks into her eyes, waiting to see if the limb he's out

on is going to break. She smiles. It's working. Just then,

It's his sidekicks and they've got some seriously bad timing.

Deacon shoots them an annoyed look.

Jake eyes Deacon intently.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     62.

She storms away. Deacon follows her.

Naomi is out on the patio.

Deacon chokes on his drink.

Deacon gets a little nervous.

She kisses him on the cheek. Deacon looks at her, then steels

himself to make a decision. He kisses her!

She's surprised, but not unwilling.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        63.

Most guys would look away at this point, with a fabulous babe

with pouty lips staring you down. But Deacon passes the test:

he stands his ground and kisses her again. She likes it.

AT A WINDOW, Jake sees them kissing. He doesn't like it.

AT ANOTHER WINDOW, Fred sees it, too. And for a completely

different reason, he doesn't like it either.

The set is finally ready: Ashley is lying on the bed in a

robe, the lights and camera are set, and Matt and Fred are

adjusting the video camera. The only thing missing is an

actor. Deacon ENTERS.

He chuckles to himself.

Deacon balks at first, then looks over at Ashley, lying

there.

He pulls off his shirt and approaches Ashley with a pizza box

from out of nowhere.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     65.

Fred goes in to kiss Deacon, who's thoroughly confused.

Deacon holds him back with his hand.

Deacon looks over at the camera. It's Ashley filming. PANIC!

He slowly looks down at the person he and Fred are having sex

with. He can barely look. It's Matt!

Deacon bolts up out of bed. Nightmare. Thank God.

Deacon enters and the scene looks very much like the dream:

Ashley on the bed and Matt and Fred waiting around.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     71.

Oh, shit.

Ashley is eating dinner with the Lewises. Max keeps staring

at her. Mr. Lewis steals a few glances of Ashley himself

while continuing his work-related rant.

Mr. Lewis is psyched that someone is finally paying attention

to him. Mrs. Lewis doesn't like the way he's looking at her.

Deacon laughs nervously.

The doorbell rings.

FOYER

Deacon open the door. It's Naomi.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     73.

Dad's beaming with pride. The two girls size each other up.

Naomi storms out of the house. Deacon follows, then Ashley.

FOYER

Deacon watches Naomi go. Ashley consoles him.

He looks at Ashley for a beat, then goes after Naomi.

Naomi and Deacon are arguing under a street light.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        74.

He looks down.

She looks at him with newfound interest.

She looks at him, pouting.

The cursor is clicking through the various pages: text

stories, pictures of the set, still photos of Ashley and

Coop, etc. But more importantly, the "hits" counter looks

like the odometer on a rocket ship.

PULL BACK to reveal...

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        77.

Mike lowers the gun and they start backing out of there.

As they continue to fight, Vic and Mike run back to the car.

Dress rehearsals. Naomi is sitting at the kitchen table

talking to Ashley, who's wearing a sexy cheerleader outfit.

Deacon is at the microwave making popcorn.

Matt stumbles in carrying a pile of scripts. Fred walks in

behind him and sees Naomi.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     80.

She packs up.

She leaves.

Then, he blurts out something unexpected:

Coop exchanges an awkward glance with the guys: he's said too

much. He goes after Ashley, with his pants still around his

ankles and his bare ass in full display.

He stumbles on his pants and falls on his face. He gets up

quickly and continues after her, still with his pants down.

She storms off, leaving Deacon there to make a decision. He

looks at Matt and Fred for a beat, then follows Naomi. Fred

and Matt are crushed.

Ashley is walking through the parking lot on the way to work.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        81.

It's Deacon's Mom, in the adjacent lot. She walks over to

her.

She escorts her towards the yoga class building.

The entire class of slackjawed MIDDLE-AGED WOMEN yoga

students stare in disbelief. Even the instructor is amazed.

ASHLEY

is essentially folded in half, her legs pinned well beyond

her ears. She's obviously been in this position before.

The women are gathering their things after class, some still

eyeing Ashley jealously.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                 82.

She gives Ashley a warm little hug.

Deacon and Naomi are under the covers, making out.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                        85.

Vic and Mike wait at the counter for his video copies of

volume 28. DAVE (cameo for the director, DME) comes to the

counter with a box.

He turns to leave just as another GUY (cameo for the writer,

DHS) comes up to Dave with a pad of paper.

They turn back.

Mike grabs him by the collar and pulls him over to Vic.

Mike grabs the paper, drops the guy, and he and Vic rush out

of the store. After they're gone:

Naomi is dragging Deacon into the store featuring posters of

buff male models with nut-hugging boxer briefs.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     86.

He stops her.

She pouts. She has him under her thumb. He takes her hand and

continues into the store.

Deacon walks in really late, but wearing a hot new Peachtree

& Finch outfit. And his skin seems to glow. Matt and Fred

glare at him from the far end of the couch.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     90.

Dad freezes.

Just then, Deacon walks past them down the hallway towards

his bedroom. Dad eyes him with a rare combination of fatherly

concern and male jealously.

Deacon walks past his desk and something catches his eye. He

stops to look at a picture of himself with Fred and Matt from

fifth grade. He looks really happy in the picture.

Then, he sees a strip of photo booth pictures taken yesterday

with Naomi. She's hamming it up for the camera, but you can

tell from his expression, they don't belong together.

He tosses the Naomi picture onto the desk.

Deacon stands by the water skipping rocks with Matt and Fred.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                       92.

Ashley walks up to them. She looks hotter than ever, in a

tiny midriff shirt and short shorts.

For the third time, time stands still as Ashley gently pulls

the errant eyelash from Deacon's eye and offers it up to him.

Deacon is too entranced to close his eyes, but he does take

the opportunity to blow the eyelash off her hand. She smiles

and brushes back a strand of hair from his brow.

The guys are hooked.

Up through the window, over on Deacon's computer, the A.S.S.

Website is running, featuring Roger's smiling face with the

motto, "By Virgins, For Virgins." The counter is on fire.

Roger is getting his hair cut by a cute HAIRDRESSER, his

wheelchair next to him. A few other women are in the back,

whispering and looking over at Roger. An OPERA ARIA plays on

the radio.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                     97.

Deacon looks her over.

Rachael goes white.

Deacon is stunned.

It hits Deacon like a ton of bricks.

Deacon and Fred enter and see Matt sitting by the computer.

FINAL SHOOTING SCRIPT                                      99.

Fred looks at the other two for a beat, not sure what to say.

Finally, he smiles.

Deacon laughs.

A beat.

Fred smiles.

He holds up the tape.

The tape is burning in the center of a huge bonfire. A

massive party is raging. Tons of teenagers are dancing,

drinking, and having a good time rocking to a LIVE BAND.

At the center of it all are Matt, Fred, and Deacon are

finally enjoying themselves.

