RADIO

On a dark screen an immense amber light appears and an

electric humming begins. The eerie light glows brighter and

illuminates a single huge number--11. We hear static and a

large vertical band of red floats mysteriously across the

screen.

Pulling back slowly, we watch the glowing band traverse back

and forth over the amber light and past more numbers appearing--

70... 90... 110... 130. And we begin to hear voices--strange

songs, fading conversations and snatches of music drifting

with static.

Pulling back further, we realize it is a car radio filling

the screen and radio stations we're hearing, until the

indicator stops. There's a pause...and suddenly we are hit

by a blasting-out-of-the-past, Rocking and Rolling, turn-up-

the-volume, pounding Intro to a Vintage 1962 Golden Week-End

Radio Show--back when things were simpler and the music was

better.

And now a wolf howl shatters through time as the legendary

Wolfman Jack hits the airwaves, his gravel voice shrieking

and growling while the music pumps and grinds...

The Wolfman howls like a soulful banshee as "Rock Around the

Clock" blasts forth.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN--DUSK

A neon drive-in casts long shadows across a vast parking lot

as the sun drops behind a distant hill. A large neon sign

buzzes in the foreground... MEL'S DRIVE-IN, while in the

background, "Rock Around The Clock" blares from the radio of

a beautiful decked and channeled, white with red trim, tuck-

and-rolled '58 Chevy Impala that glides into the drive-in.

Main titles appear over action. Steve Bolander stops the

elegant machine and gets out. He looks around, then walks to

the front of the car and leans against the flame-covered

hood. Steve is eighteen, good-looking in a conservative,

button-down, short-sleeved shirt. Most likely to succeed,

president of his graduating class. He looks around the empty

drive-in, then hears a funny little horn.

A Vespa scooter bumps into the lot. A young kid waves at him--

and suddenly grabs the handlebars again as the scooter nearly

topples. Terry Fields ("The Toad") maneuvers the scooter

next to Steve's Chevy but misjudges and ricochets off the

trash can before stopping. Terry grins sheepishly. He's

seventeen, short but plenty loud, both vocally and

sartorically in his pink and black shirt, levis, and white

bucks. He looks slightly ridiculous but always thinks he's

projecting an air of supercool.

Steve watches Terry smooth back his shiny ducktail and primp

his waterfall to a perfect cascade over his forehead. He

unbuttons his shirt one more button and lowers his pants to

look tough.

Terry walks over and leans against the flamed car, imitating

Steve who pays him no mind. In the background, we hear the

Wolfman howling with the music. The record ends and a barrage

of humor begins from Wolfman Jack. The Wolfman is an unseen

companion to all the kids. Witty and knowledgeable about the

trivia that counts, he's their best friend, confidant, and

guardian angel.

Now, a grey, insect-like Citroen deux-chevaux putters into

the parking lot and stops on the other side of the lot. Steve

and Terry watch Curt Henderson get out.

Curt stands by his little car. He's seventeen, a curly

bespectacled, scraggly kid with a summer-grown moustache and

a paperback stuck in his bermuda shorts. Curt thinks of

himself as the town cynic. In reality, he's a hopeless

romantic. He starts over to his buddies.

Steve reaches into his pocket and hands Curt an envelope

without saying anything. Curt opens it slowly and pulls out

a check.

Steve looks at Curt suspiciously; Curt seems somehow guilty.

Curt hands the envelope back to Steve.

Suddenly a horn honks and they all turn. Laurie Henderson

pulls into the drive-in and waves to them. She is driving

the family's '58 Edsel.

Laurie honks the horn a couple of times. Steve ignores her.

There is a long moment and Curt looks uncomfortable.

Suddenly, there's an ear-splitting roar and they all turn as

a yellow '32 Ford deuce coupe--chopped, lowered and sporting

a Hemi-V8--bumps into the lot. The low slung classic rumbles

and parks at the rear of the drive in.

Big John Milner, twenty-two, sits in his Ford, tough and

indifferent, puffing on a Camel. He wears a white T-shirt

and a butch haircut molded on the sides into a ducktail. A

cowboy in a deuce coupe--simple, sentimental and cocksure of

himself.

Steve walks off toward Laurie's Edsel. Laurie gets out. She's

wearing a letterman's sweater with a large "Class of '62"

emblazoned on the shoulder. Steve goes to her and they hug.

On the radio, the music ends, and the Wolfman's intro tune

comes on.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN--NIGHT

As the radio blares "Sixteen Candles," we see that with the

darkness Burger City has come alive. A continual line of hot

rods pulls into the parking lot to check out the parked cars,

then returns to the maindrag. Carhops glide by on roller

skates. Curt and John are fooling around in front of the

deuce coupe. A horn honks and they turn as a '60 Ford with

three girls in it slows by them. A girl leans out the window

and smiles.

The girls in the car all screech and giggle as they zoom

off.

John watches the procession of gleaming cars traveling through

the hot night.

Suddenly, in the distance, there's a blood-curdling scream

from an incredible high-performance engine. The entire drive-

in stops and listens.

Across the swarming parking lot, Steve sits in the front

seat of his chevy with Laurie. Budda Macrae, a car hop, leans

down to attach a tray to Steve's window, showing off her

tight blouse.

She tucks in her blouse a little tighter, gives him a hot

look and goes to get the other tray. Budda takes the other

tray around the car, almost shoves it in the window where

Laurie is sitting.

She gives Laurie an antagonistic look and goes off. Steve

laughs. Laurie smiles. She's seventeen, very pretty, with

big doe-eyes, and a short bobbed hairdo. She pushes up the

sleeves on Steve's letterman sweater, which is sizes too

large for her. His class ring glints on a chain around her

neck. Laurie is sweet, the image of vulnerability, but with

a practical and self-preserving mind beneath.

Through the windshield of the Chevy, they see Terry run by

in front of them, chasing Budda Macrae who's outdistancing

him on her roller skates.

Steve watches them go by, then looks back at Laurie.

Laurie pretends to be interested in her french fries, but is

obviously expecting something big.

Laurie hasn't looked up but her mood has changed like a mask.

Steve smiles and then looks to her. He stops smiling. They

listen to the radio for an awkward moment. Laurie struggles

to hold back her tears. With obvious difficulty, she turns

to him and smiles. He's expected something different and

doesn't know what to do, so he smiles back.

Laurie takes his ring on the chain from around her neck and

puts it in her purse.

Steve just looks at her and nods. The Wolfman howls an intro

to "Gee" by the Crows. Outside, skooting around the drive-in

after Budda, Terry is pleading with the sexy car hop as she

delivers a tray to a car.

Her tone changes immediately. Terry looks sour and turns

around to Steve who's getting out of the chevy. Budda leaves,

wiggling her butt for Steve.

Steve notices Terry isn't with him any more and turns. Terry

is standing frozen to a spot.

Terry tries to talk, much like a shell-shocked war veteran.

His mouth moves but only a gurgle comes out.

Curt is standing by the Chevy, talking with his sister Laurie.

She's still upset by what Steve said to her.

Meanwhile, they watch Terry as Steve explains to him about

the car.

The others are watching now as Terry shakes his head

mechanically.

There is indeed a tear rolling down Terry's cheek.

Laurie watches Terry, realizing that like the car, she'll be

left behind as a fond memory. She turns and looks at Steve,

who's been watching her. There's a moment between them...

Budda comes by with an empty tray. Terry sees her and wipes

his eyes. He walks up to her, a strange look on his face.

The idea is so preposterous that even Budda is speechless.

She looks around at others.

John walks up quietly and casually pulls down hard on the

back pockets of Terry's low riding levis. There is general

hysteria as Terry quickly pulls up his pants.

John walks angrily to his coupe, gets in and slams the door.

Curt looks at the others and shrugs.

Curt goes over and stands by the window of the yellow coupe.

John looks at him suspiciously.

John shakes his head. On the radio, Wolfman is taking a call

from a listener--

John roars his engine and pulls the yellow deuce coupe into

a screeching take-off out of the drive-in. Terry and Curt

watch him go off.

MAIN STREET, MODESTO-NIGHT

During the day, G street is a line of used car lots, small

shops, tacky department stores and greasy spoons. At night,

it is transformed into an endless parade of kids in flamed,

lowered and customed machines who rumble down the one way

street, through the seemingly adultless, heat-drugged little

town.

Police cars glide ominously with the flow of traffic. In

parked cars, couples neck between flashing headlights. Guys

looking cool in a '56 Chevy sit in the slouched position of

the true Low Rider--and over it all the music and the Wolfman

can be heard. Just now, it's "Runaway" by Del Shannon.

John travels with the flow of traffic, watching some dopey

guys shooting squirt guns from a moving car. John drives the

deuce coupe effortlessly. He looks over at a car pacing

alongside of his own.

A sweaty looking guy turns and nods from the window.

John nods and the two cars pull apart down the street.

TRAVELING G STREET-STEVE'S WHITE '58 CHEVY

The Rock and Roll blares as Terry the Toad cruises along the

main drag, singing along with the music. Sitting low in his

seat, he looks around, his face aglow, experiencing a new

world from the inside of a really fine car. This is the

greatest thing that has happened to Terry in seventeen long

years of being a short loser.

Terry turns a corner and another car pulls alongside. A guy

looks out the window.

Terry looks over and smiles coolly, proud of his new wheels.

Terry's smile changes to a scowl as the car pulls away from

him.. Terry accounts the slight to jealousy. Then he forgets

it and enjoys driving the beautiful Chevy again. Another car

pulls alongside of him as he cruises along slowly.

Terry looks over at the car cruising next to him. In the

back seat, a guy has dropped his trousers and is pushing his

bare buttocks against the side window--a classic BA complete

with pressed ham. Terry looks away, wondering why this is

still happening to him, even in his new car.

TRAVELING G STREET-LAURIE'S '58 EDSEL

Curt is in the back seat gazing out the window at the dark

main street of the small farm community. Steve and Laurie

are talking quietly in the front seat. Laurie is sitting

near the window and it sounds like Steve is convincing her

to move over. Laurie finally does. His arm goes around her

and her head rests on his shoulder.

Curt is laughing as the Wolfman harasses someone on the radio.

The Wolfman is placing a call.

Wolfman cuts into "Why Do Fools Fall in Love." Curt is

laughing in the back of the car, as he listens to the ever-

present D.J.

Steve slows the Edsel to a stop at the next light. Curt

glances over at a classic white '56 Thunderbird and sits up.

In the T-bird, a girl watches him. Blonde, beautiful, her

hair, backlit by a used car lot, seems to glow, making her

look almost ethereal. Curt doesn't move, as if afraid of

scaring her away. She smiles faintly---then says something,

so softly it's lost...

Curt struggles to lower his window. She repeats it, but he

can't hear. The light changes. She smiles once more and is

gone.

Curt looks at his sister and Steve in the front seat. They

are bored by his romantic visions.

Laurie looks around at him and seems to pity his flights of

poetic fantasy. Curt sits back and shakes his head.

PARKING LOT

Big John sits in his deuce coupe, backed into the parking

lot of the Acme Fall-out Shelter Co., the prime spot in town

for girl watching. A guy in wrap-around dark glasses leans

by the car next to John. They watch a group of laughing girls

cruise by in a Studebaker.

John turns on his lights and swings the deuce coupe out into

the flow of traffic, after the Studebaker. John accelerates

and pulls alongside the Studebaker. The girl in the front

seat rolls down her window. John grins and yells over at the

carload of cuties.

The girls chatter and giggle among themselves. One of the

girls dangles a bra out the back window, and they all break

into hysterical laughter. The girls try to accelerate ahead,

but John stays alongside their car.

A small voice rises above the chatter.

The first girl grins and nods. John winks at her.

The cars stop at the light. A girl rushes out from the Studey

and runs around the back of John's coupe. She opens the door

and climbs in fast as the light changes.

The Studebaker pulls off fast. John pushes through the gears

and turns and smiles at his pick-up, as "That'll Be the Day"

plays on the Wolfman Jack Show.

Carol Morrison shakes her head. She is thirteen years old,

very cute--wearing blue jeans, sneakers and a "Dewey Webber

Surf Board" T-shirt which hangs to her knees. John seems

slightly panicked.

Suddenly, a car horn honks next to them. John looks over at

the car.

John grabs Carol by the neck and pushes her head down onto

his lap so she can't be seen. John casually waves to the

friend in the car cruising alongside.

Carol's head is being held down on his lap. She looks up at

him.

John jumps, and immediately lets go of her as if burned.

John is beginning to sweat now.

CRUISING G STREET-STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry continues to cruise the main drag, slouched low and

looking cool in his newly acquired machine. He adjusts his

waterfall curl as the Wolfman dedicates a list of songs. He

passes a group of guys bullshitting around the raised hood

of a souped-up parked car.

Terry cruises alongside two girls in a Ford. He revs the

engine to get their attention and once he has it he motions

to roll down their window. They flip him the bird instead

and he lets them pass.

Terry pulls up to a stop light. The car next to him is a '56

Ford--a good opponent and besides, the kid driving looks

younger than Terry.

Terry revs his engine. So does the Ford. The tension mounts.

The green arrow for the left turn lane flashes on, the car

on Terry's other side moves off, and before he can control

his reflexes, Terry, too, has shot into the intersection

while the light remains red! Terry quickly shifts and returns

to the starting position. The other driver is grinning.

Terry is flustered and embarrassed. Terry revs the Chevy a

couple more times, concentration intently this time on the

right light.

Green!... The Ford bolts into the intersection. Terry likewise

floors the gas pedal and goes crashing backwards into a large

Buick. Terry is stunned for a moment, then realizes he forgot

to shift into first. He fumbles to get the car into first

gear.

A distinguished looking man comes up to his window after

inspecting the damage. Terry tries to escape, but in his

panic the engine dies. He struggles to start it.

Terry roars off in a cloud of indignant smoke, leaving the

gentleman standing in the street looking dismayed. The cars

behind him begin to honk their horns and shout crudities.

USED CAR LOT

Terry pulls up in front of a used car lot and jumps out to

inspect the damage to Steve's Chevy. He rubs a small scratch

on the back fender, but it won't disappear. As he spits on

it, a slick, baggy-suited car salesman ambles up.

Terry begins to get worried as the salesman begins to fondle

his new Chevy. He becomes frightened as the salesman attempts

to drag him over to one of the 'Vettes. Finally Terry breaks

away and jumps back into his car and the salesman continues

to rave on as Terry drives away.

HIGH SCHOOL GYM--"AT THE HOP"

Herbie and the Heartbeats, wearing their matching red blazers,

rock into a raunchy rendition of their masterpiece--

Pulling back from the bandstand, we see the Dewey High School

gym--the basketball nets swung back and draped with crepe,

the lights half-low, the noise high, and the waxed floor

being polished and pounded by stockinged feet as a seething

mob of adolescents join in that ancient rite--The Hop.

A hundred of them are dancing and swaying while the band

gyrates on a raised platform. Kids on wooden bleachers watch

the whirling and spinning mass of ponytails and ducktails,

button-down shirts and mid calf skirts, cardigan sweaters

with little belts in the back.

THE GIRLS' LAVATORY

Laurie stands in front of a mirror in a line of other girls.

She brushes her hair, staring rather despondently at herself

in the mirror. The girl next to her is Peg Fuller, a cute

cheerleader.

BOY'S LAVATORY

We move down a row of sinks at which guys are working as

intently on their coiffures as the girls. Ducktails being

smoothed; glassy waterfalls being primped; the fronts of

crew cuts being waxed to stand stiff.

Steve stands looking at himself, then glances at Eddie Quentin

standing next to him, dabbing something on his face.

Eddie jerks his hand down and hides something.

Steve turns and pulls Eddie's hand up.

He takes his pimple cream back and Steve continues to laugh.

He stops slowly and looks at himself again in the mirror. He

finds something on his neck, looks around at Eddie.

Eddie gives him the tube and Steve dabs it on his neck.

Steve nods.

Suddenly a voice shouts "One-two--" they turn to see a guy

at every toilet hit the flusher on "Three," sending a torrent

of water down the pipes. Suddenly, there's a rumbling noise

as the pipes break and water gushes over the floor. Panic!

Everybody crashes for the doors, laughing and shoving each

other.

HIGH SCHOOL GYM

The guys tumble out the lavatory door and abruptly cool it

as a dumb-looking paunchy teacher stops and looks them over,

rocking on his heels. They escape quietly. Steve and Eddie

meet Laurie coming out of the girls' lavatory with Peg.

They're watching the dancers as Hervie and his band moan

through a slow number--"She's So Fine."

Eddie and Peg are listening and watching. Steve smiles at

them like everything's okay. He glares at Laurie.

He takes her arm, which she pulls away.

Eddie and Peg are watching with great interest. Steve smiles

at them again. Then he leans down and whispers something to

Laurie.

She takes Eddie by the hand and leaves Steve fuming with

Peg.

Steve gives her a snide look, then watches Laurie and Eddie

laughing, as they join in The Stroll. The whole gym is

Strolling in unison, like some strange musical military

formation.

HIGH SCHOOL HALLWAY

The Stroll music floats from the gym down the empty hall.

Curt walks along with his hands in his pockets. One last

trip down the grey, locker-lined corridor. He slows and stops

by locker 2127. He smiles a little, then flips the dial of

the lock. Once to the right--back to the left--then to the

right again. Curt hits the handle. It doesn't open. Changed

already. He shrugs and goes off down the hallway.

HIGH SCHOOL GYM

Curt walks in the background, behind the line of kids clapping

as one couple Strolls down between them. Then Curt hears

somebody call him.

Curt wanders over toward a young teacher, Mr. Wolfe, who is

surrounded by a group of admiring (and grade-seeking) girls.

Mr. Wolfe wears ivy league clothes and is about twenty-five,

not much older than his students.

The all giggle. Mr. Wolfe shrugs at Curt and heads for a

door. Curt follows him and they escape from the girls into

the night.

OUTSIDE THE GYM

Curt and Mr. Wolfe come out of the gym. Mr. Wolfe sees a

couple of guys skulking around in the shadows smoking

cigarettes and laughing. The music has changed to "See You

in September."

Mr. Wolfe takes out a pack of matches and lights both their

cigarettes. They walk down a chain-link fence, past dark,

venetian-blinded classrooms.

Then a voice calls from the shadows.

They turn and see a girl coming out of a doorway. Mr. Wolfe

looks at Jane, one of his students, but doesn't say anything.

He looks at Mr. Wolfe, who seems a little embarrassed. Then,

Mr. Wolfe sticks out his hand.

Curt shakes his hand.

Curt walks back toward the gym. Looking around, he sees Mr.

Wolfe standing in the shadows with the girl, talking

intimately. Curt turns away and goes off. Before going back

into the gym, Curt stops. He sees a white T-bird parked among

a row of cars in the parking lot. He walks--then starts

running toward the car. There's a blonde sitting in the front

seat making out with some guy.

Curt leans down to the window and is about to say something

to his dream girl. But she turns and he sees it's not her.

Her boyfriend glares at him like he's some kind of peeping

Tom. Curt backs away awkwardly, trying to smile. He leaves.

CRUISING MAIN STREET--'32 DEUCE COUPE

The yellow Ford coupe is gliding down the street--skimming

around corners gracefully as the night lights glide up its

lacquered hood.  Inside the car, Carol glances at John and

smiles. The Wolfman is howling on the radio.

Carol is continuing to jabber on, relating past adventures

with her little friends. John is unimpressed.

John smiles sarcastically.

She takes a pressurized can of shaving cream and squirts his

nose. He swipes the shaving cream on his nose--swerving--A

car honks.

Carol sinks into her corner of the car. She sticks her tongue

out for a quick moment.

He stares at her and she shuts up. "Surfin' Safari" is blaring

on the radio and she starts twisting with the music. John

turns the radio off.

She looks around, and sees a police car following them, bubble

lights aglow.

John pulls the car over and stops.

John looks at her.

She looks at him.

The cop is tapping at John's window. John wipes his face.

"The Great Imposter" can be heard on the passing car radios.

John rolls down his window. He looks at the surly cop.

Holstein looks at him, then steps back, looks at the car.

Holstein's only a couple years older than John, but the

uniform separates them by light years.

Holstein just glares at him and then leans in close through

the window.

John shakes his head no.

Holstein drops the ticket through the window onto John's

lap. He starts back to his patrol car. When he's out of

earshot John answers.

Carol takes the ticket and opens the glove compartment.

She looks amazed as she adds the new ticket to a mess of

similar tickets crammed in the glove compartment. The police

car pulls by them. John scowls, then roars his engine and

pulls back into the stream of traffic.

CRUISING MAIN STREET--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry is looking and feeling like he's got it made. He

downshifts and slows for a red light. A very mean-looking

black '55 Chevy--blown, scooped and slicked--pulls up next

to him. The driver, Bob Falfa, has a gum-chewing girlfriend

sitting almost on top of him. Terry challenges the '55 Chevy

by revving his engine.

Bob Falfa doesn't even look over. He revs his engine--which

sounds like a cross between a Boeing 707 and a SuperChief.

Terry can't believe it. He quits revving his engine--feeling

deflated.

Terry looks over at the snotty grin on Falfa's girlfriends'

face.

Terry doesn't say anything and Bob Falfa glares over at him.

Falfa nods slowly.

Terry doesn't say anything. There's another incredible scream

as Falfa roars off, leaving Terry to stare through his smoke.

Terry accelerates the '58 Chevy--at a prudent speed.

As the radio blares "Almost Grown," Terry glides past the

lighted stores slowly, taking in everything with wide eyes

from his beautiful new car.

Terry passes a steaming rear-end collision at an intersection

where two guys and two girls are all yelling.

Then, suddenly, he spots a girl--walking--alone. His mouth

drops open in amazement as he slows to a crawl. Debbie,

nineteen, with blonde hair, wearing a blue and white spaghetti-

strap dress, strolls along the sidewalk.

Terry rolls the powerful engine, but she ignores him. As he

passes her, he speeds up.

Terry tears around the corner and starts his approach once

more. He quickly whips out his comb, touches up his hair and

settles down into a comfortable slouch.

He hits the clutch, roars the engine a couple more times and

then--disaster. Debbie passes behind some rough looking dudes

on motorcycles, parked along the curb. One especially vicious

biker turns and looks at Terry as he passes.

Terry roars off around the block.

As Debbie passes the bikers, they hoot, holler, and make

barnyard noises. From the cat calls, and Debbie's manner it

seems obvious that Debbie is a girl a lot of boys have

"known."

She has walked clear of the bikers as Terry screeches around

the corner again. He pulls up alongside her and again slows

to a crawl. The pass each other for awhile, but she doesn't

look over.

This stops her and she turns--Terry hits the brakes and the

car bounces.

Debbie starts slowly toward the car.

Terry is elated. He climbs out of the car and she slides in

the driver's side. Terry climbs back in next to her and slams

the door. She's sitting right next to him--like a real date

should. Terry gets a little nervous.

Terry nods, checks his clutch, revs the engine to a high-

pitched whine and they're off--

The tires smoke, scream, the car shots off, fish-tailing,

nearly hitting a parked car, straightening out... and

disappears down Main Street.

HIGH SCHOOL GYM--THE HOP

On stage, the band is "taking five." They're looking tough

for the girls while the Student Body Secretary is making

announcements at the mike.

There's applause as the girl continues.

There's more applause. Standing among the crowd, Steve and

Laurie both look angry.

There's applause, whistles and cheers from the crowd. A blue

spotlight floats over the dance floor and then lands on Steve

and Laurie, who are in the midst of their argument.

Laurie squints into the spotlight and realizes everybody's

watching them.

Steve gives a sick smile as she drags him out onto the floor.

A record needle scratches and "Smoke Gets in Your Eyes" blares

out as Steve and Laurie dance alone in the middle of the

floor. The crowd quiets, getting a little misty about this

soon-to-be separated teenage couple. For their part, Steve

and Laurie are arguing, whispering in each other's ears.

He takes her hand from the tucked-under-the-chin position

and puts it around him, in a bear-hug.

He moans.

They continue to dance slowly. Laurie starts to cry, hating

herself for it. Steve loosens a minute and looks at her.

He holds her tighter and they circle the floor, all alone,

the crowd watching quietly, the gym echoing with "Smoke Gets

in Your Eyes."

THE GYM PARKING LOT

Curt is leaning against a car in the parking lot. He's looking

up at the stars and listening to the music floating out from

the gym.

A pretty, dark-haired girl, Wendy, slides up next to him and

leans against the car. There's an awkward pause like that

which happens often when two people who used to be close

meet after things have changed.

A horn honks and Wendy turns to a VW that's idling nearby.

They go off toward the VW and climb in.

BACK INSIDE THE GYM

The hop is almost over and the lights have been lowered,

conservatively. Steve and Laurie hold each other, hardly

moving and he kisses her. Still kissing, they continue to

circle slowly--until a short, totally bald teacher comes and

pokes Steve in the side.

He gives them a disgusted look and starts off.

The teacher turns, surprised by the omission of "Mr."

Kroot's beady eyes widen and he comes back.

Kroot is stunned and people have stopped dancing to watch

Suddenly everything has changed. Mr. Kroot is furious, but

unable to do anything. He finally storms off in a huff. Steve,

Laurie and the people watching all laugh.

THE GYM PARKING LOT

Steve and Laurie walk toward her Edsel. In the background

Wolfman Jack is taking a phone call from someone.

Steve opens the door to the car and then turns Laurie and

kisses her.

She kisses him and they get into the car. As they pull out,

the Wolfman continues his conversation on the radio.

And the Wolfman goes into an insane rain-dance rhythm as we

hear "Little Darlin'"

CRUISING MAIN STREET--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry not only looks cool now, but is cool, singing with the

radio, a girl beside him. Hot stuff.

Terry ever so slowly tries to put his arm around her, but by

the time he manages it, he has to shift.

They drive by some kids having a car-to-car water pistol

war.

Terry stops, trying to figure out where their conversation

went.

Terry slowly maneuvers his arm around her.

Both of them start singing with the radio. Suddenly she puts

her hand on his leg.

Terry almost does a comic strip "Gulp!"

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

The endless chrome-flashing parade continues. Among the lines

of fine cars, Terry is parked in the '58 Chevy next to an

order speaker on a metal pole. Terry leans out the car window

and orders into the intercom.

The intercom clicks on and a garbled voice squawks back at

him.

As they wait for their order, several guys in various passing

cars yell sleazy greetings to Debbie. Suddenly, a rough-

looking face, belonging to Vic Lozier, pops in her window.

Terry nervously pretends not to hear.

Vic makes a kiss-off noise. She lights a match and flicks it

at him. He finally leaves.

She moves very close to him and whispers in his ear.

Terry backs out and drives off, leaving the approaching car

hop standing in an empty parking space.

CRUISING MAIN STREET-'57 VOLKSWAGEN

We see the white T-bird ahead for just a moment, before it

accelerates, passes a car and disappears, as we hear

"Peppermint Twist" from the radio.

In the VW, Curt is in the back, shaking the driver's seat,

yelling at Bobbie. Wendy is in front next to Bobbie.

The little VW swerves and cuts around an old dagoed Dodge,

then speeds along the fast lane.

Ahead, we catch a glimpse of the T-bird as it turns a corner.

Bobbie turns, somebody honks, she hits the curb, shifting

madly she mis-clutches; the beetle lugs forward; Curt falls

back in the seat and Wendy looks at him.

There are a few moments of silence as Bobbie lets Curt sweat

it out. Finally, Curt breaks.

She gets in and the car goes off.

In the back seat, Curt and Wendy are talking softly. He puts

his arm around her and she makes a face, but doesn't remove

it. Bobbie watches in the rear-view mirror, Curt sees her.

Curt looks at her and turns her head. He kisses her and puts

his arm around her. They neck. The radio plays "Barbara Ann."

The little VW flashes by in the stream of traffic. Bobbie

drives, glancing in here rear-view mirror occasionally and

also watching the station wagon ahead, in which two pairs of

feet are dancing against the back window.

Wendy pulls away from Curt's lips and looks out the window.

Wendy turns and leans forward, laughing. Curt watches her

seriously, studying her.

They pull up next to Kip's car and Curt leans forward and

yells out Bobbie's window.

Bobbie swerves the car away and turns a corner. She stops on

a dime at the curb.

She turns and starts flailing at Curt with her purse.

Wendy is laughing and Curt climbs over her out of the small

car. He gets out and closes the door. Wendy changes seats

and looks at him seriously.

The car pulls off and Curt watches it. Suddenly, he sees

something--the T-bird going the other way down the street.

The VW's gone and Curt starts after the T-bird on foot. He

runs down the middle of the street, oblivious to the horns

honking and the cars swerving to miss him.

We move with Curt as he moves like a broken field runner

through the traffic only to finally lose the girl and the

Thunderbird and to slow and finally stop, standing on the

white line. Cars slow down and kids rubberneck as they go by

him.

CRUISING G STREET--'32 YELLOW DEUCE COUPE

John is driving and the Wolfman is howling on the radio while

Carol is having the time of her life.

And the radio moans into "Who Wrote the Book of Love." Carol

sits with her feet up against the dash. John knocks them off

and she scowls at him.

John suddenly hits the brakes and Carol almost hits the floor.

John reaches over and opens the door.

She stares at him, shaken, looking sweet and helpless. He

turns and looks at her. A tear rolls down her cheek slowly.

John can't take it.

Carol is delighted. She slams the door. John takes off.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

John cruises around the lot until he finds a space among the

rows of dazzling cars. He pulls in and leans out to hit the

intercom button.

She looks around, sitting up so maybe some of her friends

will see her in John's neat car.

A long line of cars coast past. Occasionally, someone yells

a greeting to John. The car hop brings the coke. Then a

couple, Al and Linda, come over. They lean in the window

smiling--John prays they don't see Carol.

She slugs John on the arm. John grabs her arm as she starts

to swing again.

She struggles to hit him and spills her coke all over the

car. He pushes her rather roughly against the door.

She is about to really cry this time. She jumps out of the

car and runs off down the street. John wipes his car out as

Al and Linda watch in amazement.

John mutters profanities to himself, but his anger subsides

after a few moments. He looks back in the direction Carol

went. All he can see are two Hell's Angels on choppers rolling

in the same direction. He looks a little concerned and starts

the coupe.

CRUISING MAIN STREET--'32 YELLOW DEUCE COUPE

John roars along looking for her until he sees her walking

angrily along the sidewalk--being followed by a Ford full of

guys.

John passes Carol and the Ford and pulls over and stops just

ahead of them. Carol stops when she sees John. The Ford also

stops and the guys call out to her. She considers the

situation a moment, then runs and gets in with John. He pulls

off and she grins at him happily.

SCENIC LIQUOR STORE--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry pulls into the parking lot and stops. He looks up at

the flashing liquor store sign and considers his battle plan.

"Maybe Baby" by Buddy Holly is playing on the radio.

The man regards him, Terry pretends to start off until the

man goes in. Terry pulls himself together as another man

approaches, or rather stumbles up, being older, scruffy and,

essentially, a bum.

The bum is still trying to focus on Terry and smiles.

The old man takes the money and falls into the store. Terry

watches and then waves to Debbie in the car that everything

is cool.

As he waits for the bum to come back out, the first man in

the suit exits. Terry smiles at him again.

The man gets into the car and backs out. Terry goes over to

the window of the liquor store and looks to see how the wino's

doing with his booze. Terry sees the liquor store owner

setting four bottles of cheap wine on the counter.

The owner turns and sees Terry waving. Terry ducks out of

sight. When he looks back again, Terry sees the old bum is

gone! Terry can't believe it. He finally enters the store.

INSIDE THE LIQUOR STORE

Terry tries to look very casual as he sidles up to the

counter. Country-Western music hums over the liquor in hi-

fi.

Terry is destroyed.

Terry looks at the man and the endless rows of liquor behind

him.

The owner puts everything into a bag and starts to ring it

up.

The owner takes the liquor out of the bag and puts it back

on the shelf. Terry stands there. The owner takes the money

from him and gives him his change.

OUTSIDE THE LIQUOR STORE

Terry comes back to the Chevy with the bag full of junk.

Debbie smiles at him excitedly and scoots over to the window.

He hands her the bag.

She goes through the bag and finds a comb and the batteries.

She takes the money from a squeeze-open plastic change purse

and hands it to him. Terry smiles weakly and goes back to

try his luck again at the liquor store.

He stops in front of the door as a young guy with numerous

tattoos on his bulging arms approaches the liquor store.

He takes Terry's money and enters the store. The clerk hands

the man a bottle of Old Harper. Terry waves excitedly to

Debbie, lowering his pants a bit. Suddenly, there's a gunshot!

Terry whirls to see the young man stuffing cash from the

register into his pockets, backing away with a smoking gun.

He rushes out of the store, tossing the bottle to Terry and

running off into the night. Suddenly, the owner emerges from

behind the counter, shooting wildly. Terry ducks and heads

for the car with his pint of Old Harper.

AUTO WRECKING YARD

John's '32 deuce coupe crunches to a gravelly stop in front

of a dark auto-wrecking yard. John and Carol get out and

climb over the fence. They walk through a valley of twisted,

rusting piles of squashed, mashed and crushed automobiles.

John sticks his hand into his pockets moodily and stops and

looks at one of the burnt-out cars.

John doesn't hear her and walks on.

Carol takes his hand and they walk a bit, until John realizes

what he's doing, and drops her hand and pulls away.

She stomps off and gets back into the coupe, quickly rolling

up all the windows. John saunters up and finds the door

locked.

John grins and starts to pull his keys out of his pocket. He

stops grinning: Carol grins and dangles his keys inside the

car. John leans against the window, closes his eyes, a

defeated man.

He hears the button click up and slowly opens the door.

John gets into the car.

The Wolfman's gravelly voice whispers over the airwaves as

John and Carol drive out of the shadowy car grave-yard.

WILSON'S APPLIANCE STORE

Curt is sitting on the hood of a parked De Soto watching a

row of televisions in the window of an appliance store. Twelve

silent images of Ricky Nelson on "Ozzie and Harriet" glow in

the dark showroom. Music from passing cars rises and fades

as they cruise behind Curt. The Wolfman can be heard.

The Wolfman howls and the Platters wail into the "Great

Pretender." Curt sings along, mouthing the words. Then

somebody walks in front of Curt.

Curt pays no attention, then sense the presence of another

guy. Soon he realizes that he is being surrounded by a group

of three hoods. They slink up from all sides wearing car

coats with the name "PHAROAHS" embroidered across the back.

Curt looks them over--they all watch the silent tv's. One of

them, without turning, talks to Curt.

There's silence. Curt looks uneasy and slides quietly off

the De Soto. Curt sticks his hands in his pockets and starts

slowly down the sidewalk.

Ants (a tall, ghoulish-looking kid who probably got his name

from the scar across his face which has recently been stitched

to look like a party of ants marching across his cheek) brings

Curt back gently.

Joe is bent over looking across the hood of the De Soto.

Joe unbends and lightly punches Curt on the shoulder.

Joe gives him another charming punch on the shoulder. The

others have left the tv's and are watching Curt now, looking

puzzled and pained at the scratch on the car.

Curt turns and laughs at Ants' suggestion. He laughs and

laughs until he realizes nobody else is; they are pondering

the suggestion.

They all grin and laugh with Curt who feels better.

Curt stops smiling again.

Curt looks at them both, praying they're kidding. Joe looks

at him, shaking his head.

Joe leads Curt gently but forcibly toward an incredible maroon

'51 Merc that's been lowered and chopped so that the windows

are like ominous slits and the whole machine has a submarine

quality. Joe opens the door and Curt slides into the white

fluffy interior. In the small back window, a metal plaque

reads "PHAROAHS."

The third member of the gang is Carlos, a short little kid

about fifteen years old. He appears tougher than the rest

with a cigarette dangling from his mouth. Joe heads for the

driver's side and Ants and Carlos both go for the front

passenger door.

Carlos gives Ants a hard look and Ants backs down and climbs

in the back with Curt. The Pharoah's Mercury roars out from

the curb.

CRUISING MAIN STREET--PHAROAHS' '51 MERCURY

The radio blares "Ain't that a Shame?" as Curt sits in the

back seat of the car looking very nervous. He eyes the three

hoods cautiously. They are sitting super low, their eyes

just visible over the windows.

Then, Curt happens to look around. He does a double take.

Through the narrow window he sees the Thunderbird passing in

the opposite direction. Curt swivels and watches through the

back window as the T-bird disappears around a corner. Then,

he shakes his head. Of all the times to be trapped with the

Pharoahs.

On the radio the Wolfman is giving a phone operator a bad

time and the Pharoahs are chuckling.

As the Wolfman continues on the radio, the cars pass though

the night like a metallic ballet. The Pharoahs' Mercury (with

Curt aboard) passes Laurie's Edsel...

Inside the Edsel, Steve is driving. He puts his arm around

Laurie and she leans her head on his shoulder.

As the Edsel cruises by in one direction, John Milner's '32

Ford coupe rumbles by on the other side of the street.

INSIDE THE DEUCE COUPE

Carol is laughing like mad as the Wolfman continues. Even

John has to chuckle at the mad D.J.'s raspy patter.

Carol looks over at John and shakes her head.

INSIDE STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry drives on through the wonderful night--a blonde sitting

next to him, he's feeling very bitchin'. He and Debbie are

also mesmerized by the Wolfman.

INSIDE THE PHAROAHS' '51 MERCURY

Even Curt has to laugh at the Wolfman--despite his situation.

Little Carlos sits in the front seat and looks over at Joe

who's driving.

In the back seat, Ants nods in agreement.

Then Ants' nose starts twitching and he looks over at Curt

suspiciously.

Curt tries to smile but looks pretty guilty. Then Joe looks

around from the front seat.

Curt scoots down to a level even with Ants. Ants is staring

at him and grinning evilly. Then they hear an incredible

roar, and they all turn to see Bob Falfa's black '55 Chevy

pass by. Falfa has a new girl with him this time, a lovely

redhead.

Curt nods and tries to join in.

Carlos and Ants look at him. Like nobody asked him to open

his mouth.

INSIDE THE DEUCE COUPE

Milner may not be as fast a he used to be--and having a little

teeny-bopper with him isn't helping matters. He looks over

at Carol. She's moved closer to him.

Carol slides back to her side. But as they glide along, Carol

watches John. She's moon-eyed and flipped over him. John

deftly down-shifts as he approaches a light and then

accelerates through the gears with a "race" expertise.

There's a honk and John and Carol look over to see a '60

Cadillac full of girls laughing at them.

John nods modestly.

The girl suddenly launches a water balloon, which John ducks

deftly, the tumescent missile catching Carol full in the

face. The girls roar off. John cracks up as Carol blinks

away the water, not believing what's happened. She wipes her

face.

John tries to control himself, but can't.

MAIN STREET INTERSECTION

Carol jumps out of the car as John stops the car in the right

hand lane next to the Cadillac. As Chuck Berry wails "Johnny

B. Goode," they go into action.

The girls in the Cadillac recognize John as one of their

victims and quickly roll up all windows and lock their doors.

John starts pulling the stems from the front tires, sinking

the car. Carol starts around the car with the shaving cream,

spraying all their windows with the foamy lather.

Carol is having a great time and John is laughing as they

continue their guerrilla attack. They finish and jump back

in the coupe. The light turns green and John takes off,

leaving the Cadillac stranded at the intersection, covered

with shaving cream. Traffic begins to back up... horns begin

to honk.

CANAL BANK--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

The crickets chirp under the full moon. We hear "I Only Have

Eyes for You" playing as the Chevy slowly comes to a stop in

an isolated spot along the irrigation canal.

Terry gets out of the car, pops the top off two cokes and

pours half of them into the canal. He hums, refilling them

with bourbon. He goes back to the car.

He hands her one of the bottles and takes a long drink out

of the other. He grabs the steering wheel for support and

his eyes begin to water.

Terry takes a smaller sip this time...

Terry chokes.

He suddenly grabs at her, putting his arms around her. She's

caught off-guard and tries to move away.

Terry immediately lets go of her.

She puts her coke on the floor. She unfastens the chain

holding her sweater together and takes it off.

Suddenly, she grabs him and pulls him down on top of herself.

She kisses him madly. At first he's surprised, but then gets

the hang of it. They begin to neck passionately, encountering

many obstacles in the cramped front seat.

As they roll around, a couple of guys walk by the car

laughing. Terry manages to sit up and watches them go off

into the night.

Debbie pulls him back down on top of her.

They both get out of the car. Terry gets the blanket out of

the trunk. They walk along a path next to the moonlit canal.

Debbie carries their drinks for them. They left the radio on

and Wolfman's voice can be heard as he takes another call.

MINIATURE GOLF COURSE AND ARCADE

As the Silhouettes yip-yip-yip-yip into "Get a Job," we see

the mysterious white Thunderbirds cruise by and disappear.

The Pharoahs' Mercury turns into the parking lot of a a

miniature golf course. The doors open and the Pharoahs exit.

There's a pause, then Ants reaches into the car and pulls

Curt out also. The Pharoahs saunter into the miniature golf

compound.

Joe gives Curt a gentle push and they go inside. The golf

course is empty, except for a couple of ugly girls putting

around in the far corner. Under a trellis, Curt and Joe enter

as the Pharoahs fool around with the candy machine, pinball

games, "Check Your Weight," and "Air Corps Gunner" games,

pretending to play with them.  Joe looks around, whistling

again.

Quickly the Pharoahs go into action, jimmying locks, pounding

coin returns, pulling out plugs, prying open change boxes

and stuffing looses coins into their pockets.

Joe smiles at Curt, who looks sick again, involved now in a

robbery. Ants is sitting in a "Rocket to the Moon" ride,

pounding on it unsuccessfully when suddenly it starts. Ants

starts bouncing up and down looking dumber than usual. He

swears at Rocket to the Moon under his breath--suddenly a

screen door slams. The Pharoahs turn. A man in an undershirt

stands by the "Get Your Balls Here" booth, regarding them

warily.

The Pharoahs can't think of anything right away. Ants bounces

noisily in the "Rocket to the Moon." The Pharoahs are all

looking to Joe for guidance. Joe for his part is mumbling.

The man looks at Curt, surprised.

The Pharoahs don't know what's happening yet. Curt walks

over to Mr. Gordon.

Mr. Gordon looks skeptical, then Curt smiles at him. Then

Mr. Gordon smiles.

He laughs nervously. The Pharoahs laugh. Everybody's happy.

Mr. Gordon looks puzzled.

He leads Curt toward the screen door. Curt looks around at

the Pharoahs, who are slowly starting to work again pilfering

the machines. Inside the small office, Curt shakes hands

with Hank Anderson, who pats him on the shoulder.

There's a knock at the screen and they turn to see Joe at

the screen door.

Curt and Joe go out through the arcade toward the Mercury.

They start walking faster, anxious to get away. Joe grins at

Curt as they climb into the car.

Back in the office, Hank and Mr. Gordon watch the car pull

out.

THE CANAL BANK

Steve's Chevy sits near the canal. The door is open and the

radio blares, while Terry and Debbie are off somewhere in

the weeds making out.

Suddenly, a beam from a flashlight plays across the trunk.

Feet approach the car as the light beam moves across the

interior and stops on the vacated shoes on the front seat.

The light beam continues past the empty bourbon bottle and

starts int he direction of the field where Terry and Debbie

are lost in the throes of passionate love. As we follow the

light into the field we hear footsteps.

As the darkened figure approaches the couple, we see the

light go out and catch a gleam of silver in the moonlight as

a switchblade springs open!

Terry reacts to the sound.

She kisses him and he forgets about the noise. The figure

retreats back to the Chevy, where another indistinct figure

waits.

Terry and Debbie are resting in the field, listening to the

radio in the distance. A car engine is heard starting up and

disappearing down the canal bank.

The countryside is very quiet. Only crickets and frogs are

heard as Terry begins to drop off asleep. He suddenly jumps

with a start.

He scrambles to the spot where the Chevy once stood.

Debbie comes up and watches Terry look heavenward.

THE CANAL BANK--LAURIE'S '58 EDSEL

Cars are seen here and there in the moonlight along the

irrigation canal outside of town. In the cars radios are

playing "To the Aisle," laughter can be heard in some,

whispering in others.

Laurie's Edsel is parked by the slow-moving water. In the

front seat of the car, Steve and Laurie are making out. Laurie

leans back against Steve, his arms around her, and they look

out the window at the stars...

Laurie's expression changes.

She looks sullen and he smiles a little. He turns her around

and gently kisses here. They begin to make out, Laurie seeming

a little desperate. Steve pushes her slowly down on the seat.

He moves on top of here and his hand begins to wander.

She closes her eyes, trying not to cry.

He starts to move on top of her, kissing her neck. She

struggles for a few moments, then goes limp, not responding.

He pulls away angrily.

She reaches past him and pulls the door handle. The door

swings open and she shoves Steve out. Then she starts the

engine and drives away, leaving Steve standing there in the

darkness. In the distance, he hears the laughter of other

couples and the drifting music from their radios.

THE CANAL ROAD

Terry and Debbie walk slowly along the dark canal. Terry

takes a large slug of his bourbon and coke.

Terry thinks about it and indeed it is. He looks around into

the darkness and then takes Debbie's hand.

Terry is slowing and he stops her. He motions for her to

shut up and they listen. The wind whines across the flat

valley. Ahead there is only darkness, then footsteps!

Terry has turned and is starting off when she grabs him by

his shirt-tail.

She takes Terry's hand and they go off behind some bushes,

away from the black water.

Debbie looks through the bushes, squinting.

Terry stands with his eyes closed.

She edges off to get a better view.

She's gone. Terry starts off, taking one step, turns, takes

another, turns, takes another. Suddenly Terry hears something

behind him. He turns very slowly and looks...

A figure is standing right behind him, silhouetted by the

moon, its face obscured. Terry jumps about three feet and

yells.

Terry stops yelling, seeing that it's Steve.

Debbie comes back through the bushes and Terry looks at her

nervously.

Terry and Debbie start to walk with Steve back toward town.

Terry keeps taking pulls from the bottle of bourbon.

They continue to walk along the dark canal bank.

Steve just shrugs. The three of them go off into the darkness.

CRUISING MAIN STREET-'32 YELLOW DEUCE COUPE

The coupe makes an eccentric swerve as it cruises along the

main drag. Inside, Carol is looking at the gear-shift knob

that she's taken off the shift arm as they listen to "Do You

Want to Dance?"

He ignores her, and finally his silence makes her take a

small round knob out of her pocket and put it back on the

shifter where it belongs.

John sighs, wondering if he'll ever get rid of her. He looks

back at something in the rear view mirror. He speeds up and

checks the mirror again.

Carol looks scared and grabs onto the dash. John suddenly

hits the brakes. The deuce coupe noses down and Bob Falfa's

Chevy has to swerve abruptly to avoid a crash.

Falfa pulls the Chevy around and alongside the coupe. He has

another new girl with him.

Through all the insults, Carol has been cracking up.

John and Falfa both look at her and she sits back.

They both stop at a light now. Falfa roars his engine.

John gives Carol a very fierce look and she sinks back into

her corner.

Falfa revs his engine again. John thinks a moment, then shifts

down into first.

The light changes, and John and Falfa take off, tires

screaming. The two cars perfectly in sync, rocket down the

block toward the next red light. John starts to slow for the

light. Falfa looks over, laughs, and runs the red light.

John stops.

CRUISING 10TH STREET-PHAROAH'S '51 MERCURY

Curt is still out riding with the Pharoahs. He seems a little

easier with them now, after their successful heist at the

miniature golf course. The radio is playing "Party Doll."

Ants gives him the evil eye. Joe watches the cop car in the

used car lot as they pass it.

MAIN STREET

Steve, Terry and Debbie have made it back into town from the

canal. They walk past the closed stores and stop on a busy

corner.

Steve goes off and Debbie looks at Terry.

She looks hurt and starts off.

ALLEY BEHIND JERRY'S CHERRIES USED-CAR LOT

Curt is getting out of the low-slung Merc and Joe saunters

around from the driver's side. He smiles, friendly like--

He nods at Curt, looking cautiously around the dark lot.

Curt nods.

Curt shakes his head slowly.

Curt hasn't the slightest idea what Joe is talking about.

Joe puts his arm around Curt's shoulders and leads him away,

explaining what he has to do, while Ants and Carlos grin.

In the middle of the used car lot, a patrol car hides among

the autos for sale. Inside the car, Holstein sits with another

officer who's dozing. Across Holstein's dark glasses,

reflections of the kids' cars cruising by can be seen, as

Holstein waits to nab somebody.

Joe approaches the patrol car through the lot. He ducks,

carrying a length of metal cable in his hand. Curt wanders

behind him. Joe sees him and motions for him to get down.

Curt ducks down near Joe.

The policeman waits for a victim. In the background, we see

Curt dodging from behind one car to another. Taking cover,

Curt makes another break toward a car--and trips and falls.

In the cop car, Holstein thinks he hears something. He opens

the door and gets out. Adjusting his billy club, he paces

around the used car lot officiously, while Curt hides behind

a Falcon and peeks out from behind a fender. He sees Holstein

walking back toward the squad car. The cop opens the door

again and climbs in. The echoing sound of the calls coming

over the police radio blend with the Wolfman's howling as

cars pass with their radios blaring.

Curt is inching forward with the cable, toward the squad

car. In the background, a slow freight train can be heard

starting to move across the valley. Curt ties the cable to a

post and then, looking scared, crawls under the police car

with the cable.

Underneath the car, Curt inches on his back and then reaches

up and attaches the cable to the rear axle of the car.

MAIN STREET

Terry and Debbie are walking across the street, Terry looks

miserable and disconsolate about the loss of the Chevy he

possessed for three short hours. Debbie tries to be more

positive about the situation.

Terry just stares at her morosely. He stops by a parking

meter and sinks down on top of it.

ALLEY BEHIND JERRY'S CHERRIES USED CAR LOT

Curt and Joe are on the run toward the Merc. Ants and Carlos

jump in as they start their getaway.

MAIN STREET

Joe shifts into high gear and is flying down the main drag.

Terry and Debbie look startled as they see the Pharoah's

Mercury roaring by--and Curt leaning out the door, shouting

insanely.

Terry and Debbie watch the Merc speed suicidally past Jerry's

Cherries Used-Car Lot.

Holstein spots them and the driver starts up the engine of

the squad car. THe red lights start flashing and the siren

wails. The patrol car shifts into gear and leaps forward.

Suddenly, there's a horrendous metallic screech, the patrol

car hurtles up and out, airborne for a moment--then noses

down and bounces along the pavement, sending out sparks as

it slides to a stop.

The driver is stunned and frozen to the wheel. Holstein

manages to remove his dark glasses and looks back. There,

sitting quietly in the middle of the parking lot, is their

trans-axle and two rear wheels. The patrol car sits on the

ground at a twenty degree angle, while its engine whines

impotently at top speed.

On the radio, the all-seeing Wolfman gives an evil laugh--

And Johnny Burnette takes his cue and croons into "You're

Sixteen."

A DARK ROAD OUTSIDE TOWN--DEUCE COUPE

John has glided off the main drag and into a residential

area. Everything is dark and quiet as the adult population

sleeps through the night. John pulls the coupe to the curb

and turns off the engine. He turns out the lights.

Inside the car, there's silence. Only the clock ticking.

Carol looks over at John a little nervously.

John looks at her and his arm slides along the back of the

seat above her. She notices his arm and the fact that he's

moving slowly toward her.

He touches her hair and she slouches back into her corner

fearfully.

John starts the car engine. Carol looks very relieved. The

yellow deuce coupe roars off down the dark street.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

Steve sits in the almost empty cafe section of Burger City.

He stirs a coffee and mulls over the night's events in his

mind. A door opens and Budda Macrae comes in. She watches

him a moment, then takes off her little Bell Boy Cap and

gets a cup of coffee for herself.

Steve looks up as she comes over on her roller skates.

She drinks her coffee and he looks out the window thinking

about something else.

Budda looks surprised.

Budda smiles and he looks at her strangely.

Laurie walks up the drive-in and is about to enter when she

stops and watches Steve and Budda. She thinks about going

in, then hesitates, watching them.

She smiles at him and he smiles back a little. At the door,

Laurie turns and leaves before Steven sees her.

She gets up and goes back to the counter on her skates. Steve

thinks a moment and gets up also.

She turns and he comes over to her as she puts back on her

little cap.

She smiles briefly, then turns and leaves. Steve watches her

go.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

The drive-in remains a raucous roar: Cars coming in from the

hop, from the movies, other cars going out to the canal or

back out to cruise. Only the car hops, who have developed a

late-hour, harried look, suggest it's nearly closing time.

The Pharoahs arrive. The Mercury swings imperiously into the

lot. The radio can be heard as the rumbling engine dies. The

Clovers are singing "Love Potion #9."

Curt jumps out of the Mercury elated. The Pharoahs all climb

out and circle him, punching him playfully. Joe holds him

while Carlos tickles him and they all laugh.

Curt nods, feeling pretty good.

Curt nods, thinking about it. Then he shrugs. He looks at

the three Pharoahs as they climb back into their maroon

chariot.

Joe laughs and Curt nods. He watches the Mercury pull out

and then he wanders back across the drive-in toward his little

Citroen.

Curt gets into the little car and sits listening to the radio.

The neon

MEL'S DRIVE-IN is reflected across the windshield.

As the Wolfman talks on, Curt glances toward the street. He

sees the white Thunderbird gliding by. He sits up quickly

and tries to start the Citroen--but the machine barely turns

over. He keeps trying desperately, but the engine won't catch.

CRUISING G STREET--'58 EDSEL

Laurie drives slowly, alone in the Edsel. On the radio, the

Skyliners are lamenting the sad state of things--"Since I

Don't Have You." Laurie wipes her eyes, crying with the music.

A horn honks. She looks over to see Bob Falfa's car pacing

her. He's alone now and grinning at her. Laurie ignores him.

They drive along further. Falfa roars his engine, but she

still doesn't give him any attention. He gives up and pulls

off.

Laurie thinks a while, pouting. She pulls alongside Falfa at

the next light. He isn't looking at her. She toots her horn

and he turns. Laurie motions him to pull over.

Falfa looks surprised. The light changes, and he follows her

to the curb. Laurie takes a deep breath, and with a determined

look, gets out and walks back to his car. She gets in and

closes the door. They start off. He looks over and smiles.

Falfa is puzzled by the frigidity in the air. He glances at

her then back at the road, wondering about this strange chick.

RESIDENTIAL STREET--DEUCE COUPE

The coupe slows in front of a modest California ranch-style

home. John stops the car and turns off the engine. He looks

over at Carol, who seems lost in thought.

She sits for a moment, about to say something.

John gives in to her sweet gaze. He takes off the gearshift

knob, gives it to her, and leans over and gives her a kiss.

She jumps out of the car and runs up the walk to the house.

He watches her stop at the screen door and turn. She gives

him a little wave, then goes inside.

John looks over at the empty seat next to him and seems a

little sad. He starts the engine and drives off slowly.

OUTSIDE MEL'S DRIVE-IN

Curt has the font hood up on the beetle-like Citroen and is

fooling with the recalcitrant engine. Steve is standing beside

him.

Curt walks around the side of the car and opens the door.

Curt gets into the car and starts the engine. Steve watches

him pull out of the drive-in, then walks off.

ALLEY BEHIND THE "COME ON INN" BAR

A half dozen people are standing around in the parking lot

behind the bar. Debbie is sitting on the hood of a car,

swinging her legs and chewing gum. The people all seem to be

watching something on the ground behind the car. Coughing is

heard, then gagging, and the unmistakable sounds of someone

being sick.

At the back door of the bar even the cooks are looking and

pointing. We hear more coughing and vomiting. A guy slides

up on the hood next to Debbie.

An old man looks at his watch and then up at the stars.

More groaning and gaggin is heard. An old woman moves close

to the old man and he puts an arm around her sentimentally.

The people drift off, leaving Debbie sitting alone on the

car. Now, Terry slowly emerges, pulling himself up the hood

of the car. His face is white. He lies across the hood trying

to catch his breath.

He staggers across the lot toward Steve's Chevy! Debbie slides

off the car and follows him.

Terry staggers around and looks for the keys. He searches

under the front seat and over the visor.

Must've taken the keys with them.

GAS STATION--DEUCE COUPE

John pulls the coupe out of the garage and wheels up to the

pumps of the gas station. An attendant nods, looking at the

roaring engine.

John looks at him from inside the coupe and nods slowly.

John drives the car out of the station and screeches down

the street.

ALLEY BEHIND THE "COME ON INN" BAR--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Terry is fiddling around under the dashboard, trying to hot-

wire the Chevy. As the wires connect, the radio comes to

life and the Wolfman growls.

There's the sound of a phone ringing, then the unmistakable

voice of the Big Bopper answering.

Just then, Terry looks up and sees one large badass looking

at him. Terry gets up slowly and sees another big guy standing

nearby. The first badass reaches in and grabs Terry by the

shirt. He pulls him from the car. Terry is smiling weakly.

The first badass shoves Terry toward the other badass.

They throw him back and forth and start to rough him up

seriously. Debbie is running around helplessly while they

pummel Terry. Then, she sees the yellow deuce coupe passing.

John glances out his window and notices the fight behind the

Come On Inn. He punches it and wheels into a fast U-turn.

The hoods have quit playing with Terry and are punching him.

Terry's still on his feet, mostly because he's drunk and

staggering away from a lot of the blows; also, Debbie is

screaming and pelting the assailants with her purse.

John jumps out of the coupe and runs into the parking lot.

He grabs one of the punks and turns him--smashing him in the

face. The punk lands on his ass. John starts circling the

other.

A good fighter, John lands a couple of blows to the gut and

lands him on his can. Both of them crawl off. Terry is lying

nearby, drunk, sick and bloodied. Debbie holds his head in

her lap. John goes over and kneels by them.

Terry manages to raise his head.

His head falls back again.

Terry opens his mouth to start to explain, but it's too hard.

He can only moan.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

The drive-in is emptying out finally as the midnight hour

approaches and passes. The die-hards and the hard-ups are

still wheeling through Mel's looking for remains of any

action.

Steve sits inside in a booth. Two gossipy looking girls come

in smiling and slide into the booth across from him.

Steve shakes his head no.

The name registers with Steve.

Terry and Debbie pull into the drive-in and park. Terry, his

face swelling, groans as he leans toward the intercom.

The intercom repeats his order in a foreign language and

suddenly Steve arrives and opens the door.

Terry gets out and Debbie gets out her side. Steve gets in.

Steve roars out of the drive-in, leaving Terry and Debbie

standing in an empty space.

Terry looks at her, his eye swollen, his lip ballooning, his

glasses broken. Finally, he gives up--it's not worth the

trouble any longer.

Terry is upset now.

Terry shakes his head.

Just then the car hop approaches with the two cokes on two

trays.

Terry shrugs, standing in the empty stall, the carhop with

the trays and Debbie watching. There's a low rumbling sound

and the girls turn as John's deuce coupe glides into the

stall next to them. Terry shuffles toward John's car, a

defeated man.

Terry leans against John's car and John looks out the window

at him.

And the radio plays "Cryin' in the Chapel."

John smiles and gets out of the car. He goes and opens his

hood, making a last-minute check on something. Terry sits

down gently on a curb by John. Debbie has been talking with

some other boys. Eventually she wanders up slowly and looks

at Terry. He looks up at her, then away, disgraced and

embarrassed. She sits down by him and they're silent.

Terry looks at her, starting to regain a little cool.

He feels his swollen lip and she touches it. Then she leans

over and kisses him.

She smiles, walks off, swinging her purse. She looks over

her shoulder and smiles. He smiles back.

OUTSIDE RADIO STATION--CITROEN

The little Citroen bumps along a lonely dirt road, winding

its way through dark peach orchards and wizened grape

vineyards. Curt watches the deserted landscape when suddenly,

the radio increases in volume and he turns it down. Then it

begins to roar and distort eerily as the signal becomes more

powerful. Then Curt sees it.

He stops the car and gets out. He stands looking at an

isolated white frame house hitting in the moonlight. Curt

looks up at a spidery radio antenna that rises toward the

stars, its black wires humming in the stillness.

Curt starts up the gravel walk to the door. Under the glare

of a naked spotlight, he sees a small intercom which plays

soft Rock and Roll. He hesitates, then pushes a buzzer. He

pushes it again and finally a voice comes over the intercom.

A buzzer interrupts him and the door opens an inch. Curt

pushes it open slowly--no one is there. A little scared, he

goes inside and closes the door.

INSIDE RADIO STATION

Curt walks slowly down a dark eerie corridor, passing

strangely lit rooms with electronic generators, humming

dynamos and glassed-off booths filled with flashing electronic

apparatus.

Curt goes through this other-worldly maze until he comes to

a small, dimly lit control booth. A figure inside is barely

visible through the reflections in the double glass windows.

The figure turns and walks up to the window. Curt backs off

a bit. A face stares at him--long hair greased in a ducktail,

a short chinbeard. Then he speaks, his voice filtering

strangely through a hidden speaker.

Through the window, Curt can be seen but no sound is heard.

Curt walks around through a few more glass doors and ends up

in the booth with the manager.

The manager sits down and leans back, turning a fan to blow

on his large chest. He's a large, friendly looking man; he

wears a Hawaiian shirt. He sucks on a popsicle. Curt stands

awkwardly.

The manager leans forward and picks up a spool of tape. He

holds it up as a magician would for audience inspection,

then puts it on a machine. A record is about to end. As it

does the manager punches some buttons and the record segues

into a Wolfman howl and then the distinctive Wolfman voice

takes over. The manager adjusts the monitor volume down and

sucks his popsicle.

The station manager smiles at Curt, who is watching the tape

and blinking lights of the large console.

Curt sits down, undecided about leaving and upset about not

being able to get in touch with the lovely creature he saw

earlier that night.

Curt looks at him a moment.

Curt nods and stands. The manager swivels around and punches

some buttons, putting on a commercial.

He turns back.

He shakes the manager's hand, then wipes it on his pants.

Curt goes out the door. He starts back out through the maze

of windows and electronic machines. Echoing throughout the

rooms, the Wolfman's raucous voice follows Curt. The Wolfman

howls and Curt turns.

Through the maze of glass, shifting like prisms, he sees the

station manager sitting by the mike--howling! Then, he laughs

and howls again, starting to sing a song called "Bluebirds

on My Dingaling," pounding out the rhythm on the console.

He backs away, leaving the Wolfman, who's on his feet now,

screaming out the end of the song, dancing by himself in the

little glass room, from which his voice radiates out through

the night and around the world...

MEL'S DRIVE-IN

John is working under the hood of the deuce coupe when Falfa's

Chevy drives into the parking lot. The radio is now blasting

"Heart and Soul." Terry moves over toward John's car. John

doesn't look up, although he is quite aware of Falfa's

entrance.

Falfa slows down in front of John's car and revs his engine

again. John looks up--Laurie is in the car with Falfa. She

looks determined not to seem as scared as she really is.

Terry starts to climb into the car. John looks over at Falfa

in the rumbling Chevy.

Falfa grins and gooses the Chevy, peeling out of Mel's Drive-

in.

CRUISING MAIN STREET--FALFA'S '55 CHEVY

Falfa looks over at Laurie, who is watching the road

nervously.

He accelerates the Chevy, shifting up deftly. Laurie looks

scared now.

CRUISING 10TH STREET--STEVE'S '58 CHEVY

Steve is cruising along the almost deserted streets looking

for Laurie. A T-Roadster pulls up alongside and a guy shouts

at Steve.

But Steve is gone. Dale looks surprised as the Chevy roars

off toward Paradise Road.

MEL'S DRIVE-IN--PRE-DAWN

Curt pulls into the parking lot just as the neon sign goes

out. The last cars are leaving as the drive-in shutters up

for the night. Curt stops next to the lighted phone booth

and sits in his car, listening to the Wolfman.

The Wolfman howls and Curt smiles, leaning his chin on his

hand, looking around the dark drive-in, wondering about

tomorrow.

PARADISE ROAD--DAWN

John's '32 yellow deuce coupe and Falfa's black '55 Chevy

are waiting side by side on a long, straight country road,

their front wheels resting on a weather-beaten starting line.

The sky is getting lighter as the radio plays "Green Onions."

There are about six to eight other cars parked off the road

to watch the race. Everything is quiet now, only the crickets

ignoring the solemnity of the scene, and still singing. Terry

jumps out of John's car, John hands him the flashlight and

he takes up a position in front of the two cars.

John looks over at Falfa, who's arguing with Laurie.

John settles back in the driver's seat and positions his

hand on the gear-shift, which we see is wrapped with rags

because of the missing knob.

Both drivers start revvin' their engines; the tension builds.

Terry looks nervous, the engines start to scream and Terry,

his hands shaking on the flashlight, manages to flash it on.

Both cars roar off the starting line, tires smoking and

screaming. Terry has his hands over his head and is coughing

in a cloud of smoke as they pass. John beats Falfa off the

line.

Out on the road, as they hit third gear, the cars are almost

neck and neck. Inside Falfa's car, Laurie looks scared to

death. Falfa looks insane as he tromps it.

John hits fourth at about eighty-five. Falfa does likewise--

but starts to fish-tail. Laurie closes her eyes, almost crying--

Falfa regains control nervously.

Falfa's engine is winding out incredibly and he begins to

get the edge on John. The cars rocket through the dawn light

along the flashing white line until suddenly Falfa's car

blows a tire, his front wheel slips off and the car shoots

off into a tomato field, hits an irrigation ditch and begins

flipping over wildly in a horrifying cloud of dust and smoke--

John sees the Chevy leaving the road and screams to a halt,

swimming through an unbelievable U-turn and high tailing it

back to the crash site. He is out of the car like a bullet,

running across the dirty cloddy field. The crash car is

beginning to burn in the engine compartment and John is

panicked.

Meanwhile, the spectators have arrived, including Steve, who

jumps from his car and is running across the field.

Steve and John arrive at the fire at approximately the same

time. They stop, the flames are getting higher, burning up

into the trees now. Steve looks around wildly--he sees John

and goes at him.

He takes a couple of swings at John, who finally manages to

tackle him around the waist. They both get up looking at the

flaming wreckage. Then John moves around the side, crouching,

trying to see past the flames--suddenly, he stands and motions

to Steve to come over. They both circle the wreck.

Around behind the flaming car Falfa is standing in a state

of shock watching the car go up in smoke, while Laurie is

circling him, screaming and beating him with her purse.

She beats at him, crying hysterically. Steve runs over and

grabs her, pulling her away. She fights at Steve, too, not

knowing what's going on.

Standing in the early light, Steve holds her. She throws her

arms around him as the crowd develops along the irrigation

ditch to watch the flaming car.

John looks at Falfa who's shaking his head, watching the car

dissolve.

He pulls him off by the neck of the shirt and when they're a

few yards off, Falfa's '55 Chevy does blow--exploding like a

small A-bomb, blowing it into Modesto history.

Back on the road, John is heading toward his car, its engine

still running, its door open. Terry runs up, trotting

alongside John like a puppy.

John stops by the open door of the deuce coupe. Terry stares

at him and squints against the rising sun.

John nods, then looks up at Terry. His face is glowing, his

glasses are smashed and his lip is swollen. John smiles.

John climbs in the car. Terry yawns and shakes his head.

He climbs in too, and the deuce coupe drives off slowly as

the sun rises over the ploughed fields and on the radio we

hear "Only You."

MEL'S DRIVE-IN-DAWN-CITROEN

Curt sleeps in the little car as the sky grows lighter over

the empty parking lot. The phone is ringing in the booth. It

continues to ring. Finally Curt becomes aware of it and opens

his eyes. It takes him a moment to remember. Then, panicked,

he jumps from the car and rushes to the booth.

A soft sexy female voice is on the other end of the line.

But there's a click as she hangs up. Curt looks at the phone

a moment, then also hangs up. From the car radio, he hears

the Wolfman making kissing noises.

And then the Spaniels duh-duh-duh-duh-duh into "Goodnight

Sweetheart."

AIRPORT DAY

A DC-3 prop airliner is warming up its engines as it waits

to take off from a small country airport. There aren't too

many people around. Just Curt and his friends and family

seeing him off. Curt stands with a kindly-looking couple in

their fifties. He hugs his mother and shakes hands with his

dad.

Then, Curt moves to his friends. He shakes Steve's hand.

Curt hugs his sister. Laurie holds on to him for a moment.

Curt goes to Terry and John.

Curt smiles at Terry, who has a bandage on his forehead.

Curt looks at John and they don't seem to know what to say.

Finally, John gives Curt a little slap on the cheek.

He walks toward the plane and they all wave. He looks around

as he goes up the steps carrying a small bag and a portable

radio. The stewardess smiles as he passes her. Above the

door of the plane it reads RADAR EQUIPPED. Curt looks back

again, then goes inside. The plane takes off down the runway

and then climbs up into the sky.

INSIDE THE PLANE

Curt listens to the radio as the plane takes off. It's playing

"Goodnight Sweetheart." As the plane climbs and banks over

the valley, the music fades and the station drifts between

static and other stations...and then it's gone. Curt turns

off the radio and looks out the window.

As the plane banks, through the window Curt sees the white

Thunderbird crossing beneath on the small grey ribbon of

highway. Curt watches it. Then the plane's shadow ripples

over the car and it, too, is gone.

THE BLUE SKY

As the plane flies off against the blue sky we see cameos of

Curt and his friends:

John Milner was killed by a drunk driver in December 1964.

Terry Fields was reported missing in action near An Loc in

December 1965.

Steve Bolander is an insurance agent in Modesto, California.

Curt Henderson is a writer living in Canada.

