<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

ANNIE HALL

(Sound and Woody Allen monologue begin)

FADE IN:

White credits dissolve in and out on black screen.  No sound.

FADE IN:

Abrupt medium close-up of Alvy Singer doing a comedy monologue.  He

wearing a crumbled sports jacket and tieless shirt; the background is stark.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE-DAY

Alvy as young boy sits on a sofa with his  mother in an old-fashioned,

cluttered doctor's office.  The doctor stands near the sofa, holding a

cigarette and listening.

Disgusted, his mother looks at him.

He laughs.

Fall shot of house with an amusement-park roller-coaster ride built over it.

A line of cars move up and then slides with great speed while out the window

of the house a band shakes a dust mop.

INT. HOUSE

Alvy as a child sits at the table eating soup and reading a comic book while

his father sits on the sofa reading the paper.  The house shakes with every

move of the roller coaster.

CUT TO:

Young Alvy at the food-stand concession watching three military men

representing the Army, the Navy and the Marines arm in arm with a blond woman

in a skirted bathing suit.  They all turn and run toward the foreground.  The

girl stops before the camera to lean over and throw a kiss.  The sign over the

concession reads "Steve's Famous Clam Bar.  Ice Cold Beer, "and the roller

coaster is moving in full gear in the background.

Full shot of people in bumper cars thoroughly enjoying bumping into each other

as Alvy father stands in the center of the track directing traffic.

Alvy backs up his car off screen.

INT. SCHOOLROOM - DAY

The camera pans over three austere-looking teachers standing in front of the

blackboard.  The chalk writing on the board changes as each teacher lectures.

While Alvy speaks, one of the male teachers puts an equation on the blackboard.

- "2 X 10 = 20 " and other arithmetic formulas.

A female teacher standing in front of an old-fashioned schoolroom.  The

blackboard behind her reads "Transportation Administration. The camera pans

her point of view: a group of young students sitting behind their desks.  Alvy

as a child sits in a center desk wile all around him there is student activity;

there is note-passing, ruler-tapping, nose-picking, gumchewing.

Ivan stands up behind his desk.

Alvy hits his forehead with his hand.  Another student glances over at him,

reacting.

As Alvy talks, the camera shows him move from his seat and kiss a young girl.

She jumps from her seat in disgust, rubbing her cheek, as Alvy moves back to

his seat.

As the teacher, really glaring now, speaks, Alvy rises from his seat and moves

over to her.  Angry, she points with her band while the students turn their

heads to watch what will happen next.

The students, their heads still turned, look back at Alvy, now an adult,

sitting in the last seat of the second row.

The girl the young Alvy kissed turns to the older Alvy, she gestures and

speaks.

The camera shows the full classroom, the students sitting behind their desks,

the teacher standing in the front of the room.  One at a time, the young

students rise u from their desks and speak.

INT. ROOM

Close-up of a TV screen showing Alvy as an adult on a talk show.  He sits next

to the show, host, Dick Cavett, a Navy man sits on his right.  Static is heard

throughout the dialogue.

Sounds of TV audience laughter and applause are heard.

More audience laughter joined by Dick Cavett and the naval officer.

INT. THE HOUSE WHERE ALVY GREW UP

Alvy's  mother sits at the old-fashioned dining-room table peeling carrots and

talking as she looks off screen.

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET-DAY

A pretty Manhattan street with sidewalk trees, brownstones, a school; people

mill about, some strolling and carrying bundles, others buried.  The screen

shows the whole length of the sidewalk, a street, and part of the sidewalk

beyond.  As the following scene ensues, two pedestrians, indistinguishable in

the distance, come closer and closer toward the camera, recognizable, finally,

as Alvy and his best friend, Rob, deep in conversation.  They eventually move

past the camera and off screen.  Traffic noise is heard in the background.

EXT. BEEKMAN THEATER-DAY

Alvy stands in front of glass doors of theater, the ticket taker behind him

just inside the glass doors.  The sounds of city traffic, car horns honking,

can be heard while he looks around waiting for, Annie. A man in a black leather

jacket, walking past the theater, stops in front of, Alvy.  He looks at him,

then moves away.  He stops a few steps farther and turns around to look at Alvy

again.  Alvy looks away, then back at the man.  The man continues to stare.

Alvy scratches his head, looking for Annie and trying not to notice the man.

The man, still staring, walks back to Alvy.

Alvy  is getting more and more uneasy as the man talks; more and more people

move through the doors of the theater.

They shake hands and Alvy pats the man's arm.  The man in turn looks over his

shoulder and motions to another man. All excited now, he points to Alvy and

calls out. Alvy looks impatient.

Nodding his head yes, Alvy shoves 2nd man aside and moves to the curb of the

sidewalk.  The two men follow, still talking over the traffic noise.

A cab moves into the frame and stops by the curb.  Alvy moves over to it about

to get in.

Annie closes the cab door and she and Alvy move over to the ticket booth of

the theater as they continue to talk.

They move over to the ticket counter, people in front of them buying tickets

and walking off screen.

She moves past the ticket clerk.

Annie moves back to Alvy and takes his arm.

INT. THEATER LOBBY.

A lined-up crowd of ticket holders waiting to get into the theater, Alvy and

Annie among them.  A bum of indistinct chatter can be heard through the ensuing

scene.

Alvy, reacting to the man's loud monologue, starts to get annoyed, while Annie

begins to read her newspaper.

The man in line continues his speech all the while Alvy and Annie talk.

The man in front of them turns to look at them, then looks away.

Alvy steps forward, waving his hands in frustration, and stands facing the

camera.

The man in line moves toward Alvy.  Both address the audience now.

Alvy gestures to the camera which follows him and the man in line to the back

of the crowded lobby.  He moves over to a large stand-up movie poster and

pulls Marshall McLuban from behind the poster.

INT. THEATER. A CLOSE-UP OF THE SCREEN SHOWING FACES OF GERMAN SOLDIERS.

Credits appear over the faces of the soldiers.

INT. BEDROOM-NIGHT

Annie is sitting up in bed reading.

He starts kissing Annie's arm.  She gets annoyed and continues to read.

INT. BACK STAGE OF AUDITORIUM - NIGHT.

Allison, clipboard in band, walks about the wings, stopping to talk to various

people.  Musicians, performers and technicians mill about, busy with activity.

Allison wears a large "ADLAI" button, as do the people around her.  The sounds

of a comedian on the stage of the auditorium can be heard, occasionally,

interrupted by chatter and applause from the off screen audience.  Allison

stops to talk to two women; they, too, wear "ADLAI" buttons.

Alvy moves into the frame behind Allison.  He taps her on the shoulder; she

turns to face him.

They move closer to the stage, looking out from the wings.

(Overlapping)

As Allison and Alvy look out at the stage, the camera cuts to their point of

view: a comedian standing at a podium in front of huge waving pictures of Adlai

Stevenson.  The audience, laughing and clapping, sits at round tables in

clusters around the room.

The camera moves back to Allison and Alvy watching the stage.  Alvy is swinging

his hands nervously.

Alvy starts looking Allison up and down; people in the background mill about.

The audience starts to laugh.

The audience is with him, laughing, as Allison continues to watch offstage.

INT. APARTMENT BEDROOM.

Allison and, Alvy are on the bed, kissing.  There are books all over the room;

a fireplace, unlit, along one of the walls. Alvy suddenly breaks away and sits

on the edge of the bed. Allison looks at him.

Alvy gets up from the bed and starts walking restlessly around the room,

gesturing with his hands.

Alvy, stopping for a moment at the fireplace mantel, sighs.  He then snaps his

fingers and starts walking again.

Alvy stops at the music stand with open sheet music on it as Allison gets up

from the bed and retrieves a pack of cigarettes from a bookshelf.

Alvy touches Allison's shoulder, then gets up from the bed and starts walking

again.

EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

Alvy's and Annie's voices are heard over the wind-browned exterior of a beach

house in the Hamptons. As they continue to talk, the camera moves inside the

house. Alvy is picking up chairs, trying to get at the group of lobsters

crawling on the floor.  Dishes are stacked up in a drying rack, and bags of

groceries sit on the counter.  There's a table and chairs near the refrigerator.

The lobsters continue to crawl on the floor.  Annie, bolding out a wooden

paddle, tries to shove them onto it.

She drops the paddle and picks up one of the lobsters by the tail.  Laughing,

she shoves it at Alvy who jerks backward, squeamishly.

Annie hands the lobster to Alvy as he takes it very carefully and drops it

gingerly into the pot and puts the cover back on.

She moves hurriedly across the kitchen and picks up another lobster.  Smiling,

she places it on the counter as Alvy stands beside the refrigerator trying to

push it from the wall.

Annie rushes out of the room to get her camera as Alvy picks up the paddle.

Trying to get at the lobsters, he ends up knocking over dishes and hitting the

chandelier.  Holding the paddle, he finally leans back against the sink.

Annie, standing in the doorway, starts taking pictures of him.

Alvy drops the lobster back down on the counter, sticking out his tongue and

making a face.

EXT. OCEAN FRONT-DUSK.

The camera pans Annie and Alvy as they walk along the shore.

CUT TO:

FLASHBACK OF DENNIS LEANING AGAINST A CAR - NIGHT

Behind him is a movie theater with "MARILYN MONROE, 'MISFITS' " on the marquee.

He looks at his watch as the younger Annie, in a beehive hairdo, moves into the

frame.  They kiss quickly and look at each other, smiling.

FLASHBACK OF BRICK-WALLED APARTMENT - NIGHT

The younger, Annie and Jerry lean against the wall. Jerry is running his band

down Annie's bare arm. Annie and Alvy walk into the room, observing the younger

Annie, in jeans and T-shirt, with Jerry.

Jerry stops rubbing the younger Annie's arm and slides down to the floor as

she raises her foot toward his chest.

EXTERIOR.  BEACH-DUSK

It's now sunset, the water reflecting the last light.  The camera moves over

the scene.  The off screen voices of Alvy and Annie are heard as they walk, the

camera always one step ahead of them.

INT. NEW YORK CITY APARTMENT-NIGHT

A cocktail party is in progress, the rooms crowded with guests as Alvy and

Robin make their way through the people.  A waiter, carrying a tray, walks

past them.  Alvy reaches out to pick up a glass; Robin reaches over and picks

it of the tray first.  There is much low-key chatter in the background.

They move through the rooms, Robin holding a drink in one hand, her arm draped

in Alvy's; the crowd mills around them.

INT. BEDROOM

Alvy sits on the foot of the bed watching the Knicks game on television.

Robin enters the room, slamming the door.

Alvy reaches over, pulls Robin down onto the bed.  He kisses her and moves

farther up on the bed.

She sits on the edge of the bed, looking down at the sprawled-out Alvy.

He pulls Robin toward him, caressing her as she pulls herself away.

She gets up and fixes the zipper on her dress.  She turns and moves toward the

door.

INT. APARTMENT-NIGHT

Robin and Alvy are in bed.  The room is in darkness.  Outside, a siren starts

blaring.

She flips on the overhead lamp and turns on her side.  Alvy turns to her.

She fumbles about the floor for the Valium, then back on the bed.

He begins to get out of bed.

EXT. MEN'S LOCKER ROOM OF THE TENNIS CLUB.

Rob and Alvy, carrying tennis rackets, come through the door of the locker

room to the lobby.  They are dressed in tennis whites.  They walk toward the

indoor court.

INT. TENNIS COURT

Annie and Janet, in tennis whites, stand on the court holding tennis rackets

and balls.  They are chattering and giggling.

Rob and Alvy enter the court and walk over to the two women.  Rob kisses Janet

and makes introduction.

Annie and Alvy shake hands.

The group, laughing and chatting, divide up-Rob and Annie moving to the other

side of the net, Alvy and Janet standing where they are.  They start to play

mixed doubles, each taking turns and playing well. At one point in the game,

Annie starts to talk to Rob, then turns and sees a ball heading toward her.

INT. LOBBY

Alvy, dressed, puts things into a gym bag.  One knee is on the bench and his

back is turned from the entrance. Annie walks toward the entrance door dressed

in street clothes and carrying her tennis bag over her shoulder.  Seeing Alvy,

she stops and turns.

She turns around and moves toward the door.

Alvy picks up his bag and moves toward the door. As he turns his bag around,

the handle of the tennis racket bits Annie between the legs.

They walk out the door.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET- DAY

Alvy and Annie in the VW as Annie speeds down a city street near the East River.

She zooms down the wrong lane, cars swerving out of her way.  A horn blows.

Annie looks down beside her, searching for the gum.

They both fumble around in her pocketbook.  Alvy looks up to see the entire

front of a truck in Annie's windshield.  She swerves just in time.

Alvy continues to look for the gum while Annie zooms down the city streets.

EXT. STREET-DAY

Cars are parked on both sides of the street as the VW rounds the corner.

With brakes squealing, Annie turns the VW sharply into the parking spot.

Annie and Alvy get out, Alvy looking over his shoulder as he leaves the car.

Alvy reaches into the back of the car and takes out tennis equipment.  He

hands her her things.  People pass by on the street.

Alvy shakes hands with Annie.

Alvy touches the tie Annie is wearing around her neck.

Annie flips the bottom of the tie.

They move toward Annie's apartment building.

INT. ANNIE'S APARTMENT

Alvy, standing, looks around the apartment.  There are lots of books, framed

photographs on the white wall.  A terrace can be seen from the window.  He

picks up a copy of Ariet, by Sylvia Platb, as Annie comes out of the kitchen

carrying two glasses.  She hands them to Alvy.

Annie unscrews the bottle of wine, silent now after her speech.

They move outside to the terrace, Alvy still holding the glasses, Annie the

wine.  They stand in front of the railing, Annie pouring the wine into the

held-out glasses.

They	put their glasses together in a toast.

Annie's thoughts pop on the screen as she talks: I dabble?  Listen to me-what

a jerk!

As do Alvy's: You are a great-looking girl

Again, Annie's thoughts pop on: He probably thinks I'm a yo-yo

And Alvy's: I wonder what she looks like naked?

I'm not smart enough for him.  Hang in there

I don't know what I'm saying-she senses I'm shallow

God, I hope he doesn't turn out to be a shmuck like the others

Christ, I sound like FM radio.  Relax

They're quiet for a moment, holding wine glasses and sipping.  The sounds of

distant traffic from the street can be heard on the terrace.  Annie, laughing,

speaks first.

INT. NIGHT CLUB-NIGHT

Annie stands on center stage with a microphone, a pianist behind her.  A

Bright light is focused on her; the rest of the club is in darkness.  There

are the typical sounds and movements of a nightclub audience: low conversation,

curling smoke, breaking glass, microphone bum, moving chairs, waiters

clattering trays, a ringing phone as Annie sings "It Had to Be You.

EXT. CITY STREET-NIGHT.

Alvy and Annie walk quickly down the sidewalk.

They stop in the middle of the sidewalk.  Alvy turns Annie around to face him.

They kiss.

They turn and start walking again.

INT. DELI-NIGHT

Annie and Alvy sit down in a booth.  The deli is fairly well lit and crowded.

Conversation, plates clattering, can be heard over the dialogue.  The waiter

comes over to them to take their order.

INT. DARKENED BEDROOM-NIGHT

Alvy and Annie in bed together.

INT. BOOKSTORE-DAY

Annie and Alvy browsing in crowded bookstore.  Alvy, carrying two books,

"Death and Western Thought" and "The Denial of Death", moves over to where

Annie is looking.

They move over to the cashier line.

EXT. PARK-DAY

It's a beautiful sunny day in Central Park.  People are sitting on benches,

others strolling, some walking dogs.  One woman stands feeding cooing pigeons.

Alvy's and Annie's voices are heard off screen as they observe the scene before

them.  An older man and woman walk into view.

The camera shows them sitting side by side relaxed on a bench.

EXT. STREET-NIGHT

Alvy and Annie walk almost in silhouette along the dock, the New York City

skyline in the background.  Alvy has his arm around Annie and they walk slowly.

No one else is around.

They stop walking.  Holding Annie's arms, Alvy turns her to face him.  The

South Street Bridge, lit up for the night, is in the background.

They kiss as a foghorn sounds in the distance.

INT. ALVY'S APARTMENT

Alvy, somewhat distraught, is following Annie around his apartment, which is

filled with boxes and suitcases, clothes and framed pictures.  They both carry

cartons.

He moves over to the carton of books on the window seat and reaches in.  He

starts tossing books off screen.

He tosses the book on the bed and walks back to the window seat.

Alvy moves over to the bed and sits down next to Annie.

EXT. COUNTRY HIGHWAY - DAY

Annie and Alvy, in Annie's VW, driving to their summerhouse.  The camera moves

with them as they pass a house with a lighted window, blooming foliage.  There

is no dialogue, but it is a comfortable quiet.  Classical music plays in the

background.

INT. COUNTRY HOUSE - NIGHT

Annie, sitting cross-legged on a wooden chest in the bedroom, is browsing

through a school catalogue.  Alvy lies in bed reading.

Alvy leans over and kisses her shoulder.

Alvy, sitting down on the bed, moves over to Annie and takes the weed from her.

As Annie speaks, her inner self (ghostlike, moves up from the bed and) sits

down on a chair, watching.

INT. OFFICE.

A typical old-fashioned theatrical agency in a Broadway office building.

Autographed 8 X 12 is plastered in the sloppy room.  The agent, chewing a

cigar, sits behind his desk talking to one of his clients, a comedian, who

stands with his hands in his pockets.  A young Alvy sits stiffly in a chair

nearby watching.

INT. THEATER - NIGHT

The darkened auditorium is filled with college students applauding and cheering,

excited, as Alvy stands on spotlighted stage holding the microphone.

INT. BACKSTAGE OF THEATER.

Students mill around Alvy banding him pens and paper for autographs.

Annie is next to him, talking over the chattering fans.

They start moving toward the exit, a girl snapping a picture of Alvy with a

flash camera as they walk through the crowd.

EXT. ANNIE'S PARENTS' HOME-DAY

The camera shows a neat two-story house surrounded by a well-manicured green

lawn, then cuts to:

INT. DINING ROOM.

Alvy and the Halls are eating Easter dinner.  The sun is pouring through a big

picture window, shining on a large, elegantly laid out table. Alvy sits, at one

end,- rubbing his nose and chewing, the Halls flanking him on either side: Mr.

and Mrs. Hall, Grammy, and Annie's brother, Duane.

Grammy Hall takes a sip of her wine and nods.

Grammy Hall stares down the table at Alvy; a look of utter dislike. Alvy tries

not to notice.

Grammy continues to stare at Alvy; he is now dressed in the long black coat and

hat of the Orthodox Jew, complete with mustache and heard.

Mom Hall reacts by sipping from her glass and frowning.  Grammy continues to

stare.

Alvy, leaning his elbow on the table, looks out toward the camera.

The screen splits in half - on the right is Alvy's family - his mother, father,

aunt and uncle-busily eating at the crowded kitchen table.  They eat quickly

and interrupt one another loudly.  On the left the Halls in their dining room.

Both dialogues overlap, juxtaposed.

The two families start talking back and forth to one another.  The screen is

still split.

INT. DUANE'S BEDROOM-NIGHT

Duane, sitting on his bed, sees Alvy walking past the open door.

Alvy sighs and sits down, leaning his arm on Duane's dresser.  Duane's face is

big lighted by a single lamp.

He slowly gets up and moves toward the door.

INT. THE HALLS' LIVING ROOM.

Mom and Dad Hall walk into the living room; Annie is with them.

She walks out of the room as Mom and Dad Hall kiss.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

Duane, behind the wheel, stares straight ahead.  It is raining very hard, the

windshield wipers are moving quickly.  The headlights of another car brightens

the interior of Duane's car as the camera shows first Duane, then Annie, then

Alvy tensely staring straight ahead.

EXT. STREET- DAY

The camera bolds on a quiet New York City street; the buildings, brownstones.

It's a warm day-people sit on front stoops, window boxes are planted. Annie

walks into the frame first, then Alvy, who is walking to her right. They walk

quickly, side by side, their voices heard before they move into the frame.

She walks away.

They both stop in the middle of the street.

He walks away.

INT. KITCHEN.

Alvy is at the sink washing dishes as the screen cuts to the scene of last

month's argument.  Annie's voice is heard.

Alvy turns toward the camera.

She walks out of the room.

EXT. STREET

Annie stands at the open door of a cab, Alvy next to her gesturing as people

and cars move by.

Annie gets into the cab; Alvy leans over and closes the door.

ALVY

WOMAN ON THE STREET

She moves on down the street.

ALVY

He walks on.

He continues to walk past some other passersby and moves into the street. A

mounted policeman comes by and stops near him. Alvy looks at the horse, as if

to speak.

The scene dissolves into a sequence from the animated Snow White and the Seven

Dwarfs.  The Wicked Queen, resembling Annie, sits in the palace before her

mirror.  Alvy, as a cartoon figure, sits beside her, arms crossed in front of

him.

Rob, as a cartoon figure, enters and sits down on the other side of the Wicked

Queen.

The cartoon figures of Alvy and Rob walk past the Wicked Queen; the screen

dissolves into the interior of a concert ball.  Rob's voice carries over from

the cartoon scene as the screen shows Alvy with the female reporter.  It's very

crowded, noisy; policeman and reporters are everywhere. Alvy stands with his

hands in his pockets, watching the commotion.

INT. ALVY'S BEDROOM-NIGHT

The reporter is sitting up in bed, lighted cigarette in her hand.  Alvy, lying

next to her, rubs his eyes and puts on his eyeglasses.

He hangs up.  The reporter sits in bed still, taking in the situation.

INT. ANNIE'S APARTMENT HALLWAY

Annie, looking slightly distraught, goes to open the door to Alvy's knock.

Alvy, disgusted, starts waving his hands and starts to move into the living

room.

He tosses the book down on the cabinet.

She hands him a magazine.

She puts a piece of gum in her mouth.

Alvy starts walking down the ball again, Annie following.

Reaching up into the closet, Alvy takes out a covered tennis racquet.

He walks into the bathroom, Annie looking after him.

Alvy stands in the middle of the bathroom, tennis racquet in one band, rolled

magazine in the other.  He looks over at the shelf above the sink and picks up

a small container.  He holds it out, shouting off screen to Annie.

She beats her fist on the bed.  Reacting, Alvy puts his arm around her shoulder

and leans back against the wall.

He touches her face gently as she wipes tears from her face.

Alvy pulls her to him and they kiss again.

INT. ALVY'S BED

Alvy is lying in bed next to Annie, who is leaning on her elbow looking down

at him.  He rubs her arms and she smiles.

Alvy raises up his head and they kiss.

EXT. HIGHWAY

Annie is behind the wheel in her VW, Rob is beside her, Alvy in the back seat

leaning forward so that his head is between them.  They're driving down the

highway.

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK.

Alvy Annie and Rob move toward the roller coaster on the screen.  The area's

deserted.  Sea gulls are heard.

Annie laughs.

FLASHBACK - INT. ALVY'S HOUSE.

Alvy's father sits in his chair.  His mother is polishing a door while Alvy

lies on the floor playing.  Annie, adult Alvy and Rob quietly walk into the

scene to watch.

Alvy's father gets up and gets his hard hat.  He sits back down and starts

polishing it.

As the three friends watch Alvy's old living room, the scene has suddenly

shifted.  A huge crowd stands around the room, laughing, eating, chatting and

vibrating with the turns of the roller-coaster ride.

Joey grabs Alvy's cheeks and pinches them.

A group of women stands near a buffet table eating and listening to Alvy

mother and her sister, Tessie, and a young girl, as the three friends watch.

She touches Tessie's shoulder.  Tessie starts to laugh.

Tessie nods her head "yes."

Tessie gyrates back and forth imitating a dancer while Annie and the adult

Alvy lean on each other laughing.

EXT. STREET.

Alvy and Annie walk contentedly down a street; Alvy's arm is draped around

Annie.  People walk by them on the street as they move toward their apartment

building.

INT. APARTMENT

Annie and Alvy sit on the sofa.  Annie's unwrapping a gift while Alvy watches.

She pulls out flimsy black lingerie from the box.

Alvy leans over and hands her another box as she puts down the lingerie.

Alvy kisses Annie.

INT. NIGHT CLUB.

Annie, spotlighted onstage, stands in front of the microphone, smiling.  She

looks downward and sings "Seems Like Old Times.  " The audience applauds

loudly as the music fades out.

Alvy sits at the bar, clapping and staring at Annie as she walks over to him

and sits down.  The low murmur of the night club is surrounding them.

Tony, a famous record personality, pushes through the crowd, moving toward

Alvy and Annie.  An entourage follows him as he makes his way to their table.

TONY

He shakes hands with Annie, smiling.

Seated Alvy looks the other way, reacting.

Tony reaches over and shakes hands with Alvy.  The nightclub crowd surrounds

them all with their low chatter and cigarette smoke.

Annie and Tony and his entourage turn to look at Alvy.

Annie turns, looks at Tony as he smiles and gestures with his hands.

He shakes hands with Annie.

She turns and looks at Alvy.

INT. MOVIE THEATER.

The screen is projecting the beginning of "The Sorrow and the Pity": a street

filled with fleeing cars, belongings tied on top and piled in the back seats.

Subtitles pop on:

"The Jewish warmongers and

Parisian plutocrats tried

to flee with their gold and jewels"

as a narrator explains in German.

Split screen: Annie and her psychiatrist on the left; Alvy and his on the

right. Annie, talking, sits in a white molded chair, as does her doctor.

The office is very modern: stark, white and chrome. Alvy, talking to his

psychiatrist, lies on a deep leather sofa, the doctor seated away from him.

This office looks more like a well-worn den: bookcases overflowing, dark wood.

The dialogue is separated in each screen, though no one talks simultaneously.

INT. APARTMENT

Alvy and Annie sit close together on the sofa in some friends' apartment.

Their friends, another couple, stand behind the sofa in the background.

Excited, they talk almost all at once.

They all start talking at once.

Annie laughs, chatters.

Annie laughs.

He puts his finger into the drug, smells it and then sneezes.  The powder

blows all over the room as the man, woman and Annie react silently.

CALIFORNIA. BEVERLY HILLS STREET-DAY

It's a warm, beautiful day.  Rob, Annie and Alvy in Rob's convertible are

moving past the spacious houses, the palm trees.  The sunlight reflects off

the car.  Annie, excited, is taking the whole place in.  Background voices

sing Christmas carols.

Annie starts snapping pictures of the view.

They pass a large house with spacious lawn.  Sitting on the lawn is a Santa

Claus complete with sleigh and reindeer.  Voices continue to sing Christmas

carols; Annie continues to take pictures.

They continue driving, now in a less residential area, passing a hot-dog stand.

"Tail-Pup" concession; people mill about eating hot dogs.

They pass a theater, the marquee announcing "House of Exorcism Messiah of Evil.

Rated R.  Starts at 7:15."

INT. TV CONTROL ROOM.

Several monitors line the wall in front of an elaborate console.  Rob and Alvy,

along with Charlie, the technician, stand in the small room watching the

screens showing Rob as a television star on a situation comedy.  They chatter,

analyzing the footage, over the sounds of the taped television comedy.

TV monitors go black as the technician turns of the monitors to fix the laugh

track.

Technicians turn the monitors back on, showing Rob on the screen with another

character, Arnie.

Loud laughter from the TV monitors.

The sounds of laughter and applause are heard from the TV.

The monitors show a woman on the screen.

INT. HOTEL ROOM.

Alvy lies in bed, one elbow propped up, a doctor sitting next to him looking

concerned.  The doctor bolds out a plate of chicken; Alvy listlessly stares at

it. Annie, in the background, is on the phone.

Annie bangs up and moves over to Alvy.

Reacting, Alvy puts up his band in disgust, then starts eating the piece of

chicken he has been holding.  The doctor and Annie watch him, reacting.

Alvy begins to eat.

EXT. BEVERLY HILLS STREET RESIDENTIAL AREA - DAY

Rob, Annie and Alvy in Rob's car pull into a long circular driveway as an

attendant walks over to the car.  A sprawling house is seen to the right; a

couple moves toward the front door, and the driveway is crowded with other

parked cars.  Loud music is heard.

INT. HOUSE

A Hollywood Christmas party is in session, complete with music, milling people,

circulating waiters bolding out trays of drinks.  It's all very casual. French

doors run the entire width of one wall; they are opened to the back lawn,

guests move from the room to outside and back in.  It is crowded; bits of

conversation and clinking glasses can be heard.  Two men, California-tanned,

stand by the French doors talking.

FULL GROUP SHOT

A man stands talking, people in groups behind him.  Two born like gadgets are

attached to his shoulders; he's wearing a bizarre space costume.

Alvy and Rob stand near the French doors leading to the back lawn, eating and

drinking and watching the people walking in and out of the house.

Alvy looks into the room, where Annie and Tony Lacey are having an animated

conversation.

ALVY

Rob nods his head toward a tall woman dressed all in white conversing with a

group of people close-by.

A couple moves over toward Rob and Alvy.  The man's arm is around the woman;

they stand very close.  In the background, Annie and Tony are still talking.

As Rob and Alvy observe the guests, the woman in white starts walking toward

them.

The girl in white laughs.

Rob and the girl walk of together as the camera moves in on Tony and Annie

standing by the buffet table.

She picks up an hors doeuvre.

The two men still talking about meetings surrounded by other groups of people

milling about.

Tony, band in band with the girl in white, is leaving the party room with Alvy

and Annie to show them the rest of the house.

Annie and the girl in white laugh.

They stop in a den-like screening room.  A man is slouched back on one of the

comfortable sofas that fill the room.  It is much quieter in here; a contrast

to the noise and crowd downstairs.

Tony and the girl in white leave the room, Annie and Alvy following.

They pass a man talking on the phone in the hallway.

As they come down stairs the party is still in big gear.  People are looser

now; conversations are more animated, some talk quietly in more intimate

corners, some couples are dancing.  Alvy stands alone sipping a drink near the

huge Christmas tree.  A tall woman, passing by, shakes his hand, then leaves.

He continues to sip his drink, alone, watching Tony and Annie in the center of

the room dancing.

The screen shows a plane in flight, Los Angeles far below, then:

AIRPLANE.  INT. AIRPLANE

Annie and Alvy sit, the stewardess behind them serving other passengers. Annie

stares out the window bolding a coffee cup; Alvy reads.  Both are preoccupied,

thinking their own thoughts.

He looks over at Annie.

INT. ALVY'S LIVING ROOM-DAY

A lighted Christmas tree stands in the middle of boxes, books, and the general

disarray of packing and figuring out what belongs to whom as Alvy helps Annie

move out.

Annie goes over to Alvy.  They both look down at the book; the fireplace,

burning nicely, is behind them.

She walks away.

He tosses the book into the carton.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREET-DAY

People milling about on the sidewalk as Alvy walks out of a store and moves

toward the foreground.

A couple, walking down the street, stops as the man talks to Alvy.

The couple strolls away as an older woman walks up to Alvy while others walk by.

RECENT FLASHBACK - INT. ALVY'S COUNTRY KITCHEN

Alvy's arms and legs fill the screen as he slowly gets up from the floor

bolding up a live lobster.  He puts it on a grill tray.

His date, a girl wearing short shorts, leans against the sink and lights a

cigarette.  She makes no move to help.

He gets up of the floor with the lobster on the tray.

A solitary Alvy walking along the FDR Drive where he had walked with Annie. -

The New York skyline is still in the background, the sea gulls go by, the fog

horn blows.  He walks slowly, moving off screen.

INT. ALVY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Alvy sits on his bed talking on the phone.

An airborne plane.

EXT. LOS ANGELES AIRPORT.

People milling about as Alvy, in the outside phone-booth center, talks.

Alvy's conversation is still heard as the screen shows him behind the wheel of

a car on a busy street; he causes a near-accident by jerking the car too slowly

toward an intersection.

EXT. OUTDOOR CAF - DAY

People sit at umbrellaed tables with checkered tablecloths at a Sunset

Boulevard outdoor cafe.  Street traffic goes by while they dine.  There's a

mild California breeze.  The restaurant is somewhat crowded as Alvy makes his

way around the tables looking about.  He finally sits down at an empty table;

nearby sits a woman with a younger man.  A waitress brings Alvy a menu and

waits for his order.

Annie, wearing a flowered dress and wide hat, moves into view.  Alvy,

noticing her, watches as she walks over to his table.  He rises and they shake

hands.

Alvy wipes at his nose as he stares.  He smiles, the street traffic moving

behind him. Annie smiles back.

He nods his head in disbelief.

She starts to rise.

They move down the steps of the cafe' toward the parking lot.

Annie gets into her car.  Alvy moves over to his rented convertible.

She closes the door, starts the motor.

Annie drives away. Alvy gets behind the wheel, starts the motor. Putting the

car in gear, he inadvertently moves forward, hitting a bunch of trash cans with

a loud crash. Putting the car in reverse, Alvy notices a beige car that has

just turned into the parking lot. For a brief moment, the screen shows a

flashback of the bumper-car ride at the Brooklyn amusement park.  Alvy's father

is on the Platform directing traffic; young Alvy is in a small car bumping

others right and left.  Alvy, hack in the parking lot, backs up his convertible,

purposefully smashing the side of the beige car as another flashback of bumper-

car ride appears, this time-as, Alvy's father directs traffic-a Marine in a

small car bits the back end of a soldier's car, and Alvy, back in the parking

lot, moves his car over to another parked car and bits it full force.

Another flashback appears. people in the small cars really racing around the

track now, bumping into one another over and over again, Alvy's father

directing the flow, as the film cuts back to the parking lot, where Alvy

reverses the convertible and rams it into the front end of yet another car.

He sits behind the wheel as people rush out of various cars and as sirens

start blaring, coming closer and closer, stopping finally as a motorcycle cop

gets off beside Alvy's car and walks over to him.

He drops the license and it falls to the ground.

INT. JAIL-CELLS CORRIDOR.

A guard moves down the ball to the cell where, Alvy stands with other inmates.

He unlocks the door and opens it, letting Alvy out.

He walks down the corridor off screen.

EXT. A STREET IN FRONT OF THE COURT HOUSE - DAY

Policemen are walking up and down the courthouse steps as Alvy and Rob move

out the door of the building, down the steps to the street.

They walk over to Rob's convertible and get in.

He puts on an elaborate helmet and goggles.

INT. REHEARSAL HALL OF A THEATER.

An actor and actress sit on hard wooden chairs in a sparse rehearsal ball.

They face each other.  The actress resembles Annie; the actor, Alvy.

The camera pulls back, showing Alvy sitting with two men at a table set up

near the actors.  A mirror, running the whole width of the wall, reflects the

two actors, a script lying on the table between them.  It is obvious now that

they are rehearsing a scene that Alvy wrote.

The camera moves back to actual actor and actress.

The actor begins to leave as the actress jumps up from her chair.

The camera cuts to Alvy, who turns and looks straight into the camera.

Annie, singing "Seems Like Old Times, " overlaps Alvy's speech and continues

over the next scene, where Alvy, standing in front of a Manhattan theater,

shakes hands with Annie and her escort.  The theater marquee reads "OPHULS

PRIZE FILM: 'THE SORROW AND THE PITY'."

A series of flashbacks following in quick succession while Annie continues to

sing:

Annie and Alvy going up the FDR Drive, the day they met playing tennis, Annie

driving, Alvy bolding up partially eaten sandwich.

Annie and Alvy in the Hamptons house kitchen, Annie banding a live lobster to

Alvy, who drops it in the pot on the stove.

Annie and Alvy walking side by side by the shoreline.

Alvy at the tennis club, packing his bag, as he looks over his shoulder and

sees Annie, hands on her face, then clapping, as she offers him a ride home

in her car.

Annie opening the door to Alvy the night he came over to kill the spider; Annie

and, Alvy in the bookstore buying the "Death" titles; Annie and, Alvy in

their Hamptons house, Annie reading a school catalogue, the night Alvy puts

in the red light.

The memories continue to flash on the screen: Annie and Alvy at a friend's

house, Alvy blowing the cocaine all over the sofa; Annie and Alvy playing

tennis; Annie and Alvy having a picture taken backstage at the college

performance in Annie's hometown; Alvy bolding Annie close, the night he came

over to kill the spider.

And continue: Annie carrying her luggage and clothes into Alvy's bedroom, Alvy

following, the day she first moved into his apartment.  Annie holding up her

sexy birthday present from Alvy, then leaning over and kissing him; Annie and

Alvy walking down a city street, holding each other close; sitting on the park

bench, observing the people; and kissing, on the FDR Drive, the New York City

skyline behind them.

The music stops.

Returning to the present, the camera, focusing through the cafe window, shows

Annie and Alvy across street.  They look about at the city traffic.  Lunch is

over; it's time.

Alvy and Annie shake hands and kiss each other friendly like.  Annie crosses

the street, Alvy watching her go.  Then he turns, and slowly walks down the

street off screen.  His voice is heard over the scene:

BLACK BACKGROUND;

credits popping on and off in white.

