"Z"...............................................WOODY ALLEN

"WASP #1".........................................DAN AYKROYD

"WASP #2".........................................JANE CURTIN

"GEN. FORMICA"...................................DANNY GLOVER

"MANDIBLE".......................................GENE HACKMAN

"AZTECA".......................................JENNIFER LOPEZ

"DRUNK SCOUT"....................................JOHN MAHONEY

"WEAVER"...................................SYLVESTER STALLONE

"PRINCESS BALA"..................................SHARON STONE

"QUEEN"..........................................MERYL STREEP

"CARPENTER"................................CHRISTOPHER WALKEN

We see:

EXT. AN ANT MOUND - DAY

The camera swoops towards the entrance, then dives inside,

past a couple of tough-looking soldier ants who stand at the

gates of the ant colony like insect bouncers...into an access

tunnel that snakes this way and that, past a row of ants

plodding along...

...and into the MAIN CHAMBER of the colony, a huge, teeming

vista that seems to stretch away forever, filled with ants

rushing here and there on their business.  We see -- a

"traffic cop" directing foot traffic, waving his arms like

crazy so both sides move at once -- a column of

marching along in formation -- a chain of ants letting down

a

INT. MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR'S OFFICE - DAY

We join Z, a worker ant with issues.  He's lying on a couch,

recounting his woes.

For the first time, we see the ant MOTIVATIONAL COUNSELLOR.

He's a mixture of Tony Robbins and Ron Popiel (the

hyperactive late-night TV huckster, and founder of "Ronco").

Z gives a fake smile.

The counsellor rolls down a chart from the wall.  An arrow

shows ant population going up, up, up.

The motivational counsellor opens some blinds...and we see a

vista of the ant-filled chamber below.

Down below, we see a group of ants carrying a boulder up an

incline.  One worker ants slips, and the boulder rolls down,

crushing his leg.  The other ants rush over -- it looks like

they're going to help their fallen comrade, but instead, they

climb right over him, and pick up the boulder, continuing

with their task.

The motivational counsellor puts his arm on Z's shoulder...he

seems to understand...

The counsellor ushers Z out of his seat and towards the door.

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

A

A banner strung overhead reads: "The Mega-Tunnel -- Tunneling

Our Way to a Bright Future!"  Along the walls hang 50's work-

incentive style posters with messages like, "You asked for

it, you got it -- more work!" and "TWO MEALS A WEEK IS

ENOUGH!!!"  Line after line of ants is working on the tunnel,

digging, passing clumps of dirt from ant to ant, everyone

synchronized.

CLOSE on a clump of DIRT being passed from hand to hand.

PULL OUT TO REVEAL

AZTECA, a feisty, cynical, female worker ant, who stands

there, waiting to pass the dirt on.  Z is daydreaming behind

her, with clumps of dirt starting to pile up in front of him.

Z looks back, and sees the ants behind staring at him angrily.

A WHISTLE BLOWS.

All the ants put down their tools.  A beat.  Then the WHISTLE

BLOWS AGAIN.  All the ants pick up their tools again.

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The huge, spacious main chamber of the colony.  Looming over

the scene is the royal palace, which seems to be

inaccessible, perched on top of a hill-like pedestal.

Around the base of the pedestal, a crew of workers loiters,

seemingly aimlessly...can these be the only unemployed ants

in the place?

The workers look up and GROAN.  Then they start forming a

stairway with their own bodies, linking arms, stepping on

each other's shoulders.  It's extremely unpleasant work.  One

ant is a little tardy, and just manages to get in place

before...

GENERAL FORMICA, the Pattonesque military leader of the

colony, STEPS ON HIS HEAD, using it as the first step as he

ascends to the palace, his aide-de-camp Carpenter in tow.  As

Formica mounts the "stairs"  we can hear the workers going,

"OUCH!  OOF!  YIKES!" etc.

Formica steps on the foot of one of the "stairway" ants, who

muffles a yelp.

Formica and Carpenter have reached the top of the staircase.

There, the two guard ants on either side of the massive

throne room doors pull them open -- and one door hinge

SQUEAKS.

INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY

The QUEEN is on her throne, her huge abdomen sprawled behind

her.

Formica salutes and marches to her, Carpenter behind him.

Note:  Throughout this scene, the Queen is giving birth

repeatedly.  Each birth is accompanied by a herald playing a

short "Happy Birthday" fanfare on his trumpet.  Mid-wife ants

bring each baby to the Queen for inspection, who COOS a few

words.  The midwives put the babies on a moving bassinet-

line, powered by ants on a treadmill.

The Queen's attention is interrupted by another baby being

put in her arms.

Formica clicks his heels and bows his head.  Carpenter bows

low.  Formica smartly about faces --

PRINCESS BALA hurries through a second doorway, carrying a

swatch book.  Something about her sets her apart from the

HANDMAIDEN ANTS with her.  Her tiara, probably.

Formica tilts his head quizzically to Carpenter behind him.

Formica looks confused.

Formica turns to go.

Bala's a little fazed...but grabs her chance.

He strides across the floor.  Bala watches him go, her

antennae drooping unhappily.

We see through the now-open doors into the throne-room as

Formica and Carpenter double-time out of the frame.

The Queen sees that Bala is unhappy.

The doors swing shut on them -- revealing the two guard ants

who were CRUSHED in the wake of Formica's exit.

INT. BALA'S QUARTERS - DAY

Bala enters, followed by her handmaidens, who are in a state

of giggling infatuation over Formica.  Bala is scowling as

she leafs through a wedding catalogue.

Bala hurls the swatch book against the wall.

The handmaidens look shocked.

INT. ANT BAR - NIGHT

A long bar filled with ants.  The bar itself seems to stretch

for miles, and there are

drink...unfortunately, there's only one bartender.  Z is at

the bar with WEAVER, a burly ant soldier.

The BARTENDER, a grizzled veteran, slaps down what looks like

a couple of large green beer mugs.  Actually, they're aphids,

little green critters he fills up from a number of kegs

hanging from the ceiling.  The kegs are specialized ants with

hugely distended stomachs, which spray liquid into the aphids.

We can see that Weaver is eyeing a nearby table of "Worker

Babes", including Z's friend Azteca.

Down the bar, there's a commotion.  A grizzled old SCOUT ant

has had too much to drink.

The soldiers pull him from the bar, carrying him out.

MUSIC STARTS UP.

INT. ANT BAR ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Bala is peering in at the entrance to the ant bar,

accompanied by her worried-looking handmaidens.

She adjusts her "disguise", a hardhat, tied down Jackie O.-

style with an ant's version of a Chanel scarf.

Music starts.  An ant BARKER takes the mic at one end of the

dance floor.

Every ant gets up to dance.  Weaver turns to Z.

Weaver joins the rest of the ants who are lining up for the

dance.  The Barker calls out the steps in a bored monotone --

all the ants already know the steps.  Everyone dances in

perfect synch.

AT THE ENTRANCE, Bala smiles mischievously at her handmaidens.

The handmaidens are appalled.  Bala whirls away from them,

sets her sights and searches the crowd -- zeroing in on --

Z, who's watching the other ants dance.

Bala's standing right there.  Z is

Not breaking eye contact with Bala, Z smiles suavely.

Reaches suavely for a beer.  Suavely grabs the candle in a

glass jar off the bar.  Suavely singes his face.

He plays it off with a rakish little laugh.  A bit

apprehensive, Bala heads onto the floor.  Z follows her.

Z and Bala step onto the dance floor with the rest of the

ants, but Z can't do any of the steps.

Bala watches Z, trying to follow along.  It's the blind

leading the blind, as Z tries in vain to follow the barker's

rapid instructions.

Z starts doing his own, individual dance.  With a suave

expression on his face, he leads Bala in a helter-skelter

mixture-of Tango, Charleston, and hand-jive.

Bala starts to get into it, making up her own steps in reply

to Z's, loosening up, having fun.  For a moment, the two of

them are actually sexy together.  Then they get a little

wild -- and the other ants, who are still doing their

intricate dance, start to collide with Bala and Z.  Z almost

knocks over a big soldier ant.  We can only see the ant's

back at the moment.

Z has turned around to see the soldier ant, MAJOR MANDIBLE,

glaring at him.  Mandible is about twice Z's size.  He's got

one eye missing, and half of his left antenna his been chewed

off.

Z's caught between a rock and a hard place.  He doesn't want

to get beaten up, but on the other hand, he doesn't want to

lose face in front of Bala.  More soldiers have gathered

around, looking hostile.

Z glances over at Bala.  Then, shaking with nervousness, he

says defiantly...

Z, meanwhile, looks far away, ecstatic, as if he's just

realized something very important.  Unfortunately, just at

this moment, A soldier pushes Weaver...Weaver pushes him

back...somebody makes a dive for Z -- and before you know it,

there's a regular

middle of it, cracking heads together, punching ants in the

face, having a great time.  Just then, the Princess'

handmaidens hurries over.

Z, who's scrabbling around on the floor, overhears.

Bala rushes off with her handmaiden, just before a squad of

whistle-blowing POLICE wade into the crowd.

But she's already gone, leaving Z holding her scarf.

INT. DORMITORY - THE NEXT DAY

Z is talking to Weaver, who's getting ready to go off to war.

Nearby, columns of ant soldiers march by.

Weaver looks unconvinced.

Weaver hands Z has helmet.

Weaver points to a bunch of soldiers hurrying by in formation.

Z skips off and joins the column, marching in time with the

soldiers but too excited to keep from jazzing it up a little.

INT. TOWN CENTER - NIGHT

The ant army has gathered in a huge HALL in front of a

reviewing stand.  We can hear the murmuring of thousands of

soldiers -- but all we can see is a HUGE POSTER of an ant

General pointing right at the camera.  The poster reads,

"GENERAL FORMICA WANTS YOU -- to obey".

Z turns to some of the soldiers near him.

The soldiers look at Z like he's nuts.

MARTIAL MUSIC sounds, and we hear

they snap to attention.  Z imitates the soldiers awkwardly.

GENERAL FORMICA struts to the middle 6f the screen, slapping

his thigh with a swagger stick (the antenna of some

unfortunate insect)

In the audience, Z starts laughing -- he thinks Formica's

just made a joke.

Z notices nobody else is laughing.  He stops.

From the stage, Formica is squinting at the audience, trying

to make out who was laughing, but there are just too many

ants.  He continues.

The soldiers CHEER!  Z CHEERS along with the rest of them.

Z applauds and whistles as the other ants look at him in

confusion.

The soldiers turn to the right and start to march out past

the reviewing stand.

A COLONEL marches at the head of Z's column as Z looks around

for the Princess.

Finally, as Z's part of the army marches past the end of the

reviewing stand, he sees her, looking bored, standing next

to the Queen, who is giving the royal wave.

ON THE REVIEWING STAND, Bala sees Z -- that is to say, she

sees one of the thousands upon thousands of ants marching

by...

Bala waves unenthusiastically, little more than flopping her

hand back and forth on her wrist.

Down below, Z takes this as a sign that Bala has seen him.

Z tries to squeeze his way back towards the royals, but he's

surrounded by a solid wall of soldiers -- and they're

carrying him along with them.

Z loses sight of the Princess as he's carried away.

BARBATUS, a hard-as-nails "grunt" soldier ant, taps Z on the

shoulder.

At that moment, Z is swept out of the cramped corridor

they've been marching along, as the army emerges into the

OPEN AIR outside of the colony.

EXT. ANT MOUND - NIGHT

It's a starry, moonlit night.  The shadows crowd around the

panicked Z, who looks up at the sky as we see the army on the

march...

Z starts to fall out of line, but Barbatus, looking

concerned, stops him.

Z swallows hard.

Around Z and Barbatus, the ants start up a marching song,

which we intersperse with dialogue between Barbatus and Z to

form a montage/time-cut as the ant army marches on to the

termite capital.

Montage shots of an ant column marching diagonally across the

screen, fading into another column marching diagonally

downwards across the screen...

...montage shot of Z's column crossing a bridge composed of

living ants -- all of whom look extremely uncomfortable as

they're getting stepped on...

EXT. TERRAIN NEAR TERMITE STUMP - NIGHT

Z looks up to see...looming high above them...the TERMITE

CITY, which is built in the stump of a dead tree.  From here

it looks like a demonic Mount Fuji.  The COLONEL ANT shouts

an order.

The front line of ants starts rushing towards the termite

colony...Z is swept along...

Z is swept along and up the side of the stump as thousands of

ants invade the colony through every possible entrance.

Up...over the lip of the stump...and down inside, to the very

middle of the termite colony...

Into a disquietingly

of the hollowed-out trunk, and ants keep pouring in -- but

there's not a termite to be seen.  Barbatus looks around

suspiciously.

Then we hear a strange

and sees that Z's teeth are chattering with fear.

A nearby soldier ant take a

shoots into the air like a flare, lighting up the interior of

the stump with eery, shifting luminescence.

Then we notice, hollowed into the inside of the stump like

innumerable pockmarks,

stump...and, with an unearthly

tree, right onto the ant army.

Within moments, Z finds himself in the middle of a

taking heavy losses from the gigantic, blind, acid-spewing

termites.  The battle scene is as sprawling and chaotic as

something out of

perspective, we see:

-- A squad of ants rushes towards a termite soldier, but are

literally

from its forehead...

-- A termite warrior is overwhelmed by a crowd of ants and is

-- Another termite warrior takes on an ant soldier one on one

and slowly

Just then, a termite burst up from the ground and turns to

face Z.  Z is

monstrosity.

The termite rears, getting ready to melt Z, when OOF! he's

knocked backwards by...

As Barbatus and some other soldiers kill the termite, the

Colonel strides up to Z, puffing on a cigar.

A stream of termite acid

burning him to a cinder clutching a still-burning cigar; Z's

paratroop buddies turn in terror to see a

rumbling towards them.  Z, terrified, dives into the hole

that the huge termite made...

INT. TERMITE TUNNEL - NIGHT

...and tumbles headlong into a corridor of the termite mound.

The corridors here are primitive, caveman-like, pocked with

jagged access holes.

No sooner has Z landed in the tunnel than a termite comes

burrowing out from one of the side walls, snapping at Z's

head.  Z just avoids getting decapitated, and digs

INT. TERMITE QUEEN'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

...straight into the hub of the entire termite complex -- the

Queen's chamber.  This is nothing like the civilized court of

the ant colony -- it's a huge, stinking, fetid dungeon whose

walls are held up by one massive (to Z) column of piled

stones.

The termite queen, a repulsive, slimy, squirming, foot-long

monster, is attended by a crew of diminutive, blind termite

nurses.  The queen turns to look Z right in the eye.

Before Z can say, "directions", the queen gives out a

piercing, blood-curdling

too.

But the queen's shriek has summoned a soldier termite -- the

jaws snapping open and shut like huge scissors.

At the last moment, Z jumps out of the way -- and the termite

runs

if on a spring release, the termite's jaws clamp shut -- and

to rumble...

The termite turns to eat Z...but is

falling from the ceiling, which gives a final shudder and

As the walls of the chamber crumble, melees of ants and

termites pour into the room from the corridors around and

above...they keep struggling until...

We can see that the termite warriors, deprived of their

leader, are suddenly confused and directionless, easy prey

for the ants.

The ants set about killing the disoriented termites when...we

hear another

up confusedly...

...And a (from the ant's point of view)

CRASH.  The ten or so ants standing directly below are

around the crater.  As quick as it appeared, the tongue

retracts, with a hideous SLUUURPING sound.  We can now see

the end of the snout of an ant-eater poking through a hole in

the ceiling high above...

The tongue comes down again, smashing some more ants, whose

bodies are slurped up by the tongue...the ants scatter, but

to no avail, as the tongue comes smashing down again and

again...

Z heads into a side corridor as the tongue smashes down

again, barely missing him!

Z retreats along the corridor as the tongue searches for him,

across the tunnel from intersecting access-tunnels, getting

closer and closer to Z, dragging more and more screaming ants

and struggling termites...

....Then the tongue disappears.  Silence.  Z wipes his brow...

And we hear a thunderous SNIFFING noise as the anteater

searches for more prey... and the tongue starts

the corridor

ricochets along the walls!

Z gets up and runs, the tongue lapping towards him,

reminiscent of the stone sphere that nearly crushed Indiana

Jones in

under the pressure of the tongue, which gets closer to

Z...closer...

...and

to the ground...Z sits there, dazed, as we see the huge form

of the anteater withdraw its tongue and, with a final

contented burp, shuffle off into the distance.

EXT. TERMITE STUMP - MORNING

Z makes his way across the corpse-strewn battlefield, an

expression of horror on his face.

Z looks down at his feet, where Barbatus's still-living,

decapitated

Barbatus dies, leaving Z heartbroken.

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Weaver is "passing" as a worker, working alongside much

smaller worker ants.  He actually

throwing up dirt like a bulldozer.  He's so enthusiastic, he

scoops up a WHOLE ANT in his shovel and tosses him aside.

Azteca, who's standing next to him in line, is shocked by,

and a little attracted to, this turbo-worker.

While Azteca is checking out the hunky new worker, work has

effectively stopped...clods are piling up behind Weaver.  A

Foreman comes striding down the line, furious.

Weaver whips his shovel up to his shoulder and salutes, as if

he's dealing with a superior officer.

The Foreman heads down the line, shoving and berating the

other workers as he goes along.

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Some guard ants are looking out across the sandy main

entrance to the hive.

The other ant starts ringing a bell, rushing down into the

colony.

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

A huge crowd is forming, eager to welcome the army back.  A

band is striking up a triumphant victory song, confetti and

streamers are being thrown, as General Formica strides in,

followed by Carpenter.

Everyone waves little flags as the tuba player Oompah-oompah-

oompahs...

...and Z walks into the hall, looking bedraggled and

exhausted, his helmet hanging over his ears.

The band slows to a halt.

At the edge of the crowd, Azteca, sitting on Weaver's

shoulders, can just about see over the crowd.

Weaver looks distraught.

Far down the hall, Z is describing the battle.

The atmosphere is somber.  This is a tough one to try and put

a spin on...but that doesn't stop Formica from trying.

The band strikes up again, and everyone cheers.

Renewed CHEERS, as Z is lifted onto the shoulder of some of

the soldiers who stayed behind.

Z is following Formica away from the cheering crowd.

EXT. ABOVE TOWN CENTER - DAY

Z and Formica are going up the royal "stairway" together.

Formica gives Z a manly slap on the back.  Z looks a little

uncomfortable as we...

INT. THRONE ROOM - DAY

Z follows Formica and Carpenter into the throne room.  At the

end of the hall, a society band is playing.  The room is full

of courtier ants and officers.

Waiters are gliding around holding trays of hors d'ouevres.

Feeling a little hot, Z wipes his brow.

Z escapes from Formica, who gazes after him suspiciously.

Z mingles in with the crowd, then he sees Princess Bala

standing with a group of officers who are eating hors

d'oeuvres.

The officers laugh, but Bala looks bored in this stuffy

social scene.

More laughter.

Z reaches for a tray of canapes that a waiter is carrying by,

and KNOCKS the whole thing CLATTERING to the ground.

She moves towards the dance floor.  Z spit-combs his

antennae, struts after her -- until he trips on his sword.

He tumbles, falls, but hops to his feet just as Bala turns

toward him, turning it into a ballet plies.

She frowns...there's something familiar about this guy.  But

then they start dancing.

ACROSS THE ROOM: The Queen and General Formica watch the

party.

Formica strides over to where Z and Bala are dancing.

Bala YANKS Z back onto the dance floor, dancing away from

Formica.

Formica catches Bala's eye.  She frowns at him, and decides

to get a little shocking.

As she says these things, Z tries to act accordingly.

Everybody gasps.  The dancing stops cold.

A livid Formica is stalking over towards them.

Angry officers begin to surround Z, who hides behind Bala in

fear, using her as a shield.

People shout and scream, as Z backs up with the

Princess...into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Z backs up into the kitchen, still pulling Bala along with

him.  Here, ant chefs are preparing food for the party,

soldiers follow them in.

Z realizes that he's

The officers rush for...and Z, with Bala in tow, falls

backwards into an opening marked, "GARBAGE".

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

HOLD ON: the GARBAGE CHUTE EXIT.  Nothing happens for a

moment.  Then --

From a distance, we hear the faint sound of SCREAMING,

dopplering closer --

-- and then Z and Bala come flying out of the exit, right

into the mud, cutting off the scream abruptly.

Bala sits up, coated in mud.  Z is nowhere to be seen.

Because she's on top of him.

She gets up and runs back towards the colony entrance, where

soldiers are already issuing to get her...

But...just as Bala'a about to be rescued...what looks like a

gigantic LASER BEAM sweeps along the rim of the colony,

sizzling the ground as it moves along...and IGNITES the lead

soldier into FLAMES!  Bala looks stunned.

Z watches in horror as another soldier ant is FRIED, and we

look up to see a GIGANTIC MAGNIFYING GLASS casting the

beam...we can just about make out the huge, grotesque figure

(a seven year old kid) holding it.

Bala, who has no idea what's really going on, turns from the

colony and runs the other way.

...unfortunately, this draws the fire of the laser, which

follows after her in what looks like a strafing run, SIZZLING

in her footsteps.

Z, who's running towards the princess, suddenly realizes that

he's running towards certain doom...and joins Bala in legging

it away from the colony; under a

flowers...and finally into the relative safety of some

grass...where they throw themselves on the ground, exhausted.

EXT. WEED CLUMP - DAY

Z and Bala dust themselves off.

Z tries to flag down some passing bees.

Bala points to a thin blade of grass.  Gingerly, Z tests the

grass and starts climbing up it...but his weight bends it, so

that he's lowered back to the ground, face to upside-down

face with Bala.

Z squares up with her.

She looks around.  She doesn't like what she sees.  She

glowers at Z.

She shakes herself out of it.

Z, meanwhile, hits the road.  Bala has no idea of where to

go.  Just then, the scariness of the outside world comes

through to her.

We start hearing NOISES -- the equivalent of scary jungle

sounds in a Tarzan movie -- the HISSING, CROAKING,

CHIRRUPING... Bala sees

directions...and spots a colossal monster (a sparrow) fixing

her with his beady gaze.

Bala heads off after Z.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

The mass of worker ants are swinging pick-axes in the tunnel.

The foreman moves up the line, BERATING the workers, yelling

at them to dig faster.

But more ants are gathering 'round.

Weaver and Azteca hold hands.  More ants are gathering

around, dropping their tools...

EXT. BIKE PATH - DAY

LONG SHOT.  A glimmering desert landscape (think of "The

Sun's Anvil" in

be seen, tiny dots moving across the arid whiteness.

They're Bala and Z, who are crossing a concrete path in the

park, which they perceive to be a "desert".

Over Z's line, we can see a GIGANTIC WHEEL, getting larger

and larger and heading right towards them, a GIGANTIC WHEEL

(the front wheel of a bicycle which is heading right towards

them).

Bala pushes Z out of the way just as the wheel rolls past

with a cacophonous CRUNCHING, GRINDING noise -- like a

gigantic millwheel.

No sooner has he said it than the

thunders past.

Bala notices that they're clutching one another in fear; she

pushes him away.

We can, in fact, hear a low, musical PLUNK.. there's a pause

and then we can hear it again...

Z and Bala walk over a rocky "dune" (the soft shoulder of the

path).  Beyond, the grass starts up again.  They have come to

the end of the "desert" (i.e. the other side of the path)

Through the blades of grass, we can see...

EXT. LAKE - DAY

A LAKE (a puddle) stretches before them.  It is, in fact, the

overflow of a drinking-fountain whose drain is jammed...as Z

and Bala run to the lake, water dribbles from the fountain

and into one edge of the pool (to the ants, it's a waterfall).

Bala and Z run to the edge of the water and start slurping.

They smile at each other, until they remember that they don't

like each other.

-- But before he can finish, a

fountain falls on him.  It may not sound like much, but to Z

it's as though a ten-foot diameter sphere of jello had

engulfed him.

Z's stuck inside because of the surface tension of the

droplet, which doesn't burst, just quivers up and down.

Inside, Z is slowly, frantically

help.  But his screams are muffled in the water.

By now the droplet has started

upside-down.  He manages to get one foreleg out of the

droplet, and, in a frantic attempt to pull himself out,

But it's too late -- they're now

and, as Z continues to drown, he also has to deal with Bala

she's yelling through the water.

Then, having run out of air, she too starts thrashing,

alternately trying to

to

make the droplet

sputtering, drenched ants onto the ground.

They both lie there, miserable, wet, and cold.

Z watches her incredulously.

Bala turns from Z.  She's thinking things over, realization

dawning on her.

She looks out into the grass forest.

Z, overhearing her, slowly puts his hand on her shoulder.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Formica and Carpenter are walking into the entrance of the

tunnel with a squad of soldiers.

Ahead of them, a group of a few hundred workers have stopped

work and are sitting down, chanting...

A worker moves forward to join the strikers, tossing down his

tool.

At the center of the group, Weaver and Azteca are holding

hands, leading the chant.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - NIGHT

A nervous Weaver is sitting across from Formica, flanked by

a couple of stoic guards.  Carpenter stands smiling by the

side door.  There is no obvious threat to Weaver, but the

atmosphere is truly intimidating.

Weaver begins to relax a bit.

He pats Weaver on the shoulder.

Formica nods at Carpenter, who smiles and opens a door.  Two

soldiers walk in, holding

Weaver's face.

Weaver starts to get up, but the guards behind him hold him

down.

Formica's face lights up.

The guards exit with Weaver and Azteca.

EXT.  GRASS JUNGLE - DAY

Z and Bala are lost, wandering through the grass

Z keeps marching on.

But Z is just gawking.  The shot expands to show that they

have stumbled onto...

EXT. FALSE INSECTOPIA - DAY

A PICNICGROUNDS...A red and white

the ants looks like a vast, undulating

before them.  They gaze up at two obelisks: a salt and pepper

shaker.

Behind that is a gigantic tupperware jar full of potato

salad, and sandwiches stacked high.  It all looks perfect,

with the clean lines and monumental proportions of fascist

architecture.  In fact, it looks a little too perfect.

Z goes over to a gigantic sandwich, but -- BOOIIING! -- he's

prevented from getting at it by the

Bala joins him, laboring against the saran wrap.  Then both

of them hear

Bala and Z look up to see two large, yellow WASPS hovering in

the air above them.  The husband and wife wasps have

lockjawed, William F. Buckleyesque accents.

The Male Wasp zooms in closer.

We hear a loud RUMBLING noise -- the family is about to sit

down for their picnic lunch.  Gigantic

pull away the "force fields".

The wasps dive in to the picnic, darting in for a bite, and

then dashing away again...

-- But all is not well.  We pull back to reveal that Z and

Bala are standing in front of a giant sneaker logo, which is

attached to a

Just at that moment, we hear a whistling in the air -- and

the female wasp is crushed by a huge swatter that sweeps out

of the sky, sending the picnic blanket billowing up in an

aftershock that throws Bala and Z to the ground.

But she doesn't move.  The Male Wasp stares up at the sky.

But Z, also looking up, has no time to commiserate.

They are only saved by the fact that they are so small - .the

holes of the swatter pass over them.

The woman, realizing that the swatter won't work on ants,

throws it to the side and tries stomping on them...

Before Bala can get away, a sneaker falls on her with a

thunderous BOOM that shakes the ground.

The shoe rises, as the person wearing it steps away...and we

see that Bala is stuck in one of the ridges of the waffle-

soled sneaker, adhering to a big piece of

But Bala is carried off on the sneaker in a huge, looping,

ferris-wheel-like motion.  BOOM.  The sneaker on which Bala

is stuck falls again, as the woman tries to step on Z, too --

-- But he does, instantly, as the shoe rises again, showing

Bala stuck deeper in the bubblegum --

-- The woman has decided to walk away from the picnic to get

the bubblegum off her shoe...Z heart sinks as the shoe Bala's

stuck on lopes off into the distance...

He sees a SECOND SHOE starting to rise --

Z runs towards the shoe as it rises... and at the last moment

catches on to the snaky, swinging

The sneaker lifts off into the air, with Z holding on for

dear life to the lace, and getting further and further away

from Bala as he's drawn to a vertiginous height...the

landscape can be seen rolling and pitching crazily in the

background...

For a moment, the sneaker seems to pause in the air...then it

descends again, in a stomach-churning, roller-coaster free-

fall as the sneaker on which Bala is stuck rises up again...

--  But Z is trying to keep his lunch down as he descends.

The sneaker hits the ground, and Z can feel himself

again...it's now or never.

As the sneaker rises again, he

through the air and catching one of the laces of Bala's

sneaker...the momentum swings him up and under the sole...

Z gets smashed into the bubblegum next to Bala.  Now he's

stuck too.

The sneaker descends again.  Z and Bala hold hands and SCREAM

as they see the ground rise too meet them...

THUD!  They're squished deeper into the bubblegum.  The

sneaker rises again...

The sneaker rises, and seems ready to fall again...but

instead it just hovers there.  (The person wearing it is

balancing on one leg and about to scrape off the bubblegum

with a penny).

Just then, the hand holding the

is, by ant standards, about sixty feet high.  The huge image

of

The penny starts scrapes the bubblegum off the sneaker,

bringing Bala and Z along with it.  They're carried through

the air as the penny gets thrown away...turning over and over

in a lopsided orbit as Bala and Z SCREAM...

...and land with a CRASH in total

EXT. LAKE - DAY

The "lake" where Z and Bala were nearly drowned by the water

droplet.

The earth shakes as a HUGE, MONSTROUS creature approaches the

lake - and begins to drink from it.  The creature seems to

hear something, and,

Pomeranian, one of those yappy little lap-dogs -- but seen

from ant perspective, it's something out of a

The monster bears its huge fangs at the approaching

intruders -- a bunch of

they're attacking the

The monster rears and snaps at two of the ants, who are

making a diversionary run...

and then

soft, wet nose and start

The monster rears back in pain -- and runs away, YIPPING!

The members of ANT TEAM SIX, a crack team of hardcore flying-

ant commandoes a la Seal Team Six, break off the attack and

land.

MAJOR MANDIBLE, Ant Team Six's lethal commander, steps into

frame.  He's the one-eyed killer we met in the bar earlier.

The rest of his team fan out to search the area.

Two other commandoes come running up with what looks like a

piece of machinery on a tripod -- only it's an ant -- a

highly specialized, blind ant with an incredibly acute sense

of smell.

The tracker, drool running out of its long proboscis, sniffs

the air and starts signalling like a geiger counter...

Finally the tracker stops swivelling, pointing in one

direction and saying, "Yeahyeahyeahyeah..."

Mandible's muscles bulge.  The veins in his head throb.  This

is one ass-kicking ant.  Even Mandible's troops look scared

of him.

Ant Team Six takes to the air, heading in the direction

indicated by the tracker ant.

INT. TRASH BAG - DAY

Darkness.  Out of it we hear the voices of Z and Bala.

In one corner of the screen, we can see an irregular little

hole through which a

proceeds towards it, the hole appears to get bigger and

bigger...

Bala stops...she notices that they're being watched.  She's

emerging from a tied off

away gracefully.  Bala and Z have been tossed into a garbage

area.  And above them and below them, peering from garbage

cans, recycling containers, bags, etc., a multi-cultural

assortment of insects are regarding them.

A laid-back FLY voices their thoughts.

A nearby BUTTERFLY joins in.

Z and Bala look around.  Just to get things straight, the

garbage dump doesn't look disgusting -- that would be seeing

it through human eyes.  Instead, we're looking at it through

ordered, sterile, paradise of the picnic, but an earthly land

of plenty.

The sides of the plastic garbage bags are sheer, reflective

walls of smoothest obsidian...the garbage cans are gigantic,

thick metal columns put there by the gods (think the

pyramids); a coke bottle, refracting the sunlight into a

gorgeous rainbow, trickles a fountain of sweet nectar into

the pink, bittersweet flesh of a grapefruit half, which

appears as a multi-chambered concave dome.  Everywhere,

insects are disporting themselves -- a multi- species love-in

that's like an insect version of Woodstock.

Bala and Z are awe-struck.  Bala turns to Z.

Like a kid at an amusement park, Z slides down the smooth

side of the garbage bag, whooshing this way and that until he

slides into one end of a straw (a red and white striped

tunnel), and is

...into a bottle-cap filled with lemonade, which he

alternately drinks and swims through...

Down at the bottlecap, Z is drying himself off.  Then he

sees, emerging from behind a lemon peel, a gigantic TERMITE.

Surprisingly, the termite seems

The termite sticks his hand out.  A drop of acid drips from

his head and splashes at Z's feet.

Z reaches out and shakes the termite's hand, as Bala watches,

smiling.

EXT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

The insects are having a

the still-red ember of a

lie untouched as they pat their bellies...

Z and Bala sit next to one another, smiling shyly as if they

had just met for the first time.

Z takes out Bala's scarf, which he's been keeping folded in

a pocket.

He hands it back to her.  Bala looks at Z, frankly, openly.

For a moment Z is shy.  Then he looks at her too.  They're

two lovers, leaning closer, about to have their first kiss,

when --

The moment is wrecked.  Z looks up.  A chubby beetle stands

there with Gus the termite.

Z gets up to go with them.

EXT.  INSECTOPIA, TOP OF CAN - NIGHT

As

The tracker ant is going nuts.

One of the commandoes puts his hand over the tracker's mouth

to shut him up.  Mandible communicates with his troops by

pulling down his one functional antenna and gruffly

whispering into it, as though it were one of those commando

headsets.  His troops do likewise.

EXT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

Back at the feast, a cricket strums on his legs like a

guitar, opining about life and the universe to a bunch of

other chilled-out, hippyesque insects...Bala taps her feet to

the song.

At that moment Ant Team Six rapels down from the top of the

garbage bin, landing amongst the insects.

The cricket gets up to confront Mandible, but Mandible

surprised to fight, just do as they're told.

A couple of commandoes grab Bala by the arms and heave her up.

INT. INSECTOPIA - NIGHT

Z, the termite, the beetle and the fly are happily carrying

a huge M&M back to the feast.

They throw down the M&M, which lands with a THUD.  Z notices

that the rest of the insects look spooked.

Z looks around.

Z just stands there, heartbroken.

Z looks around.  Nobody's volunteering.  Nothing but sheepish

looks and shuffling from the insects of Insectopia.

Z looks disheartened.  He's about to leave when --

The male wasp is hovering nearby.

Z hops on the wasp's back.

The wasp takes off, leaving the other insects looking a

little chastized.

EXT. SKY ABOVE COLONY - MORNING

The wasp and Z fly high above the colony...

From here, we can see the whole layout of the land around the

colony...the "desert" (an asphalt path) and across it, the

"lake" (the overflowing water fountain)

Suddenly, the wasp bounces up and down in the air.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - DAY

Formica sits at his desk, going over some plans.  Formica's

chambers are located inside a snake skull, with the eye

sockets serving as windows, and the mouth serving as a door.

The walls are hung with trophies -- the heads of other

insects.

Ant Team Six burst in the doors of Formica's office, carrying

the struggling and kicking Bala.  One of the commandoes sets

the tracker ant one the floor...then Formica gets up from his

desk as the commandoes bring the princess to him.

Bala replies warily.

The soldiers look shocked.  For a moment, Formica looks

furious.  Then he just shrugs.

He gestures to the commandoes, who drag her out the door.  We

notice that the tracker ant has been left behind.

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Z hops down from the wasp, who has landed near the entrance

to the colony.

They shake hands and the wasp flies off.

Z starts for the nearest entrance -- but he's spotted by a

couple of SOLDIER ANTS.

Z's caught -- it's over.  He turns around with his hands up.

Z can't believe his luck -- and his curiosity is piqued.

INT. MEGATUNNEL - DAY

The Queen, with Formica striding at her side, is carried by

a personal escort of fifty or so struggling workers to the

bottom end of the Mega Tunnel, where a red ribbon waits to be

cut.

Behind her,

looking confused and expectant.  Some of them clutch little

flags and noisemakers...

...which we see are being handed out to them by Ant Team Six.

The Queen is looking around unhappily.

Formica warmly places his hand on the Queen's shoulder.

The CAMERA heads up the long, long tunnel, where we see...

INT. MID SKYLIGHT TUNNEL

Bala, tied and gagged.  She's at the point in the Megatunnel

where it begins to curve upwards towards the surface.  She

struggles against her bonds, but can't get loose.

INT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Elsewhere in the colony, a column of soldiers marches by, and

we hear the TROMP-TROMP-TROMP of their boots.  When they've

gone, Z pokes his head out from behind a pile of dirt...he

heads in the opposite direction of the soldiers...

INT. OUTSIDE FORMICA'S CHAMBERS - DAY

Z creeps around the outside of Formica's chambers.  This part

of the colony seems to be deserted.

Z walks up to the skull that houses Formica's chambers and

peeks in the eye socket.

INT. FORMICA'S CHAMBERS

Inside, the Tracker Ant, who's been left behind, switches

"on", eyes glowing.  Z enters the chamber cautiously.

For a moment, Z's afraid.  Then he sees the small Tracker Ant

doesn't seem hostile.

The tracker ant keeps sniffing.  Z waves his hand in front of

the blind ant's eyes.

Z picks up the tracker ant.

Z, carrying the little tracker ant, heads out, following its

lead...

Through this and that passage, as the Tracker Ant gets more

and more insistent...And finally straight to a

Z can answer his own question.  He puts down the tracker ant,

with a look on his face like a kid forced to eat broccoli,

starts

INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY

Meanwhile, A member of Ant Team Six -- the stupidest member,

in fact, waits at the

narrows almost to a point.  He's hanging from a winch, and

has a little hammer and chisel in his hand.  He's WHISTLING,

awaiting instructions.

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Z emerges from the tunnel he's dug, spits a load of dirt out

of his mouth and wipes his hands off.  Nearby, Bala lies

there, bound and gagged.

Z unties Bala and undoes her gag.

They HUG.

From here, Z can see far down the tunnel to where the crowd

is gathering.

We can hear the sound of WATER SHIFTING somewhere above.  He

looks up the tunnel...in the distance, we can make out the

silhouete of the commando set to break open the wall...

Bala looks too shocked to move.  Z starts pushing her into

the tunnel he made, and starts heading down towards the crowd.

Z looks into Bala's eyes.

Z

towards the crowd...

INT. ANT MOUND - DAY

All the SOLDIERS are filtering out of the assembly area,

leaving the workers behind.  As his troops march by, Formica

steps to the side and hands the Queen a pair of scissors to

cut the ribbon strung across the Megatunnel.

Formica, surrounded by his bodyguards, hurries off as the

Queen readies to cut the ribbon...

INT. MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Z and Bala sprint towards the bottom end of the tunnel...

-- and then pull back to see Queen cut the ribbon -- she

looks up and sees --

Z calls out to the crowd.

The workers are unconvinced.

The workers are even more sceptical.  A laugh goes up from

the crowd.

Weaver steps out of the crowd.

Weaver runs up to Z and hugs him, starting to cry.

Nearby, Bala and the Queen hug.  The Queen looks over at Z.

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

Outside of the colony, where Formica, surrounded by the army,

gives a signal to Mandible by drawing his finger across his

throat...

INT. SKYLIGHT APEX - DAY

AT THE TOP OF THE TUNNEL, the commando starts chiseling away

furiously at the wall...and nothing but dust falls down.  The

commando looks at the dust as it falls down, down the long

tunnel...he looks up at the dry wall...Hmmm...

Then...

THE WALL BURSTS OPEN.

And a TORRENT starts pouring out -- swallowing the terrified

commando as if he were a crumb and heading down the tunnel

like a freight train, ripping up the walls as it goes...

INT. EARLY MEGA-TUNNEL - DAY

Everyone turns to hear the

tunnel --

From here, we can see deep into the tunnel, at the point

where it levels out...and the torrent can be seen rushing

down at them...

All of a sudden there's

away from the oncoming water...in the confusion, the Queen's

bearers drop her and scramble over her.

The Queen turns, and for a brief moment is silhouetted

against the white-capped torrent of water...

...and then she picks her abdomen up like a skirt and

passes some of her bearers on the way...

And then the torrent

all of its side tunnels, as we see:

A group of workers RUNNING up a side tunnel and getting

slapping a table...

one by one; one of the ants runs up on the ceiling of the

tunnel and keeps on going, upside-down...it works for a while

but eventually he, too is swallowed up...

-- In the

babies...

In one of the larger access-tunnels, down which thousands of

workers are fleeing, a group of ants turns and decides to

make a stand for it -- they link up in a mass and form a

LIVING DAM.  It holds for a while but then BURSTS scattering

and smashing ants along the sides of the tunnel before eating

them up...

And we...

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The huge main chamber of the colony, where most of the

workers -- as well as Z, Bala, Weaver, Azteca, and the

Queen -- have run to.

The chamber is rapidly flooding from all sides.  Water flows

out of every escape tunnel the workers try...and the crowd is

becoming more and more closely packed together as the waters

rise around them.

Z clenches his fist...he feels utterly powerless...then he

shouts...

The workers turn to look at him questioningly.

-- But one of the workers raises his hands.

The workers start to dig a circular moat around themselves,

passing the dirt back into the middle of what remains of the

dry ground.

-- But they seems to be making little headway against the

water as it continues to rush in...

The ant labor we saw up to now were nothing compared to

this.   As the moat gets deeper, the pile grows higher and

higher...Weaver is digging up huge chunks of earth...nearby,

Azteca is digging like crazy too...Z runs around, directing

traffic and encouraging the workers...

Nearby the Queen stands there, looking squeamish.

Gingerly, the Queen reaches out for a clod of dirt...and

passes it along.  Next thing you know, she's practically

The water keeps rushing in...but now we notice that...

...the pile of dirt in the middle of the "island" created by

the digging of the moat is growing higher and higher,

reaching up towards the ceiling of the chamber...

...And the water is getting swallowed up by the moat,

swirling around angrily.

Now Z looks up, and sees that with a little more effort they

can reach the top --

The workers start to cluster around the mound, covering it,

forming a tight network of living bodies around the mound up

towards the ceiling...

The ants start to scale the scaffolding, up towards the top

of the chamber...it's a swarming mass of ants, hauling each

other up, giving each other legs up, climbing ever and ever

higher towards the top...

Where they start to dig through the very ceiling...

...as, at the bottom of the mound, Z starts to organize the

hauling away of the Queen, as though she were a big cargo

container...

Z slaps the Queen on the butt, and she's winched away on a

cable composed entirely of ants linked arm in arm like those

plastic toy monkeys...

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

...And Azteca's head pokes through the ground...she hauls

herself up, and hundreds of ants pour up from the ground,

widening the hole...

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

The water is rising...but almost all of the ants have

escaped...Z clambers up the mound, as the scaffolding of ants

rolls up from the bottom....

And the rushing water finally wears down the earthen core of

the structure.  As Z hauls himself through the hole in the

ceiling.

The entire structure collapses into the angry waters below,

which seem furious to have missed their prey...

EXT. ANT MOUND - DAY

The "Z" cheer goes up, with everyone joining in.  But the

jubilation is short-lived, for, appearing on the ridge,

surrounding the workers, is FORMICA'S ARMY, circling the mass

of workers, backing them in towards the roiling water behind

them.  Formica himself appears in the front lines, with

Carpenter and Mandible at his side.

He steps forward to address the surrounded, trapped workers.

The workers, trembling but silent, cower inside the unbroken

circle of soldiers.

Formica laughs, shaking his head.

This sends a ripple of murmurs through the workers.

The workers all look at each other.

The workers remain frightened but silent.  Z trembles,

terrified.

As Formica raises his swagger stick to order the attack, a

lone figure steps out from the crowd.

Z stands there, shivering with fear.

For a moment, Z stands alone, under the glare of Formica's

gaze.

Then another figure steps out from the throng of workers.

Z turns, astonished, to see Weaver, still and unwavering,

bravely risking his life for his friend.  Then, AZTECA also

steps forward.

Next, Bala comes forward.

More and more ants step forward.

Now, the workers are all shouting the same declaration.

Z is plainly flabbergasted.  Formica is outraged.  He gives

the signal.

The army swells forward on all sides, pushing the workers

towards the swirling water.  Some workers surround the Queen

to protect her.  All seems lost, when THE FLY from Insectopia

alights on the rim of the horizon.

THE WASP appears on the other side of the horizon.

Suddenly, on all sides, A MASSIVE INSECT ARMY appears on the

ridge, looking not unlike ambushing Indians in a John Ford

film.  Formica's soldiers stop in their tracks, awed by the

unfolding spectacle.  It looks like all of Insectopia has

turned out: spiders, caterpillars, rhinoceros beetles, all

manner of creatures crawling and flying have shown up, and

now surround the army, dwarfing them.

The ant army remains frozen, unsure of what to do next.

Formica is furious.  If ants had veins, Formica's would be

bulging out of his face.

Formica turns towards the insects gathered against him.  With

his chin raised pridefully, Formica steps forward, and

CHARGES Z!

Formica runs so quickly and with such force that his helmet

blows off his head.  Z's eyes get big, he stumbles backwards,

slipping, and Formica goes flying over him, toward the

whirlpool behind.  He scrabbles at the edge of the water, and

then tumbles over.

For a moment, it looks as if he's gone.

Z goes to the edge of the precipice and looks over.  Formica

is struggling in the waters of the very flood he created,

which are roiling not far below.  He looks up into Z's eyes,

a new expression crossing his features: fear.

Formica goes under for a bit, then his head comes up again --

but he's not going to be able to stay afloat for long...

Suddenly he sees a line dropped down.  Above, Z looks down on

him.

Formica looks at the line...and in that moment seems to

realize his error...

Formica reaches up and takes the line, and is pulled up by Z

and a bunch of other ants (the line, we see, extends from a

nearby spider, one of the cavalry from Insectopia).

Formica is left, broken and alone, by the precipice, while

HORDES OF ANTS surround Z to congratulate him.  Bala fights

her way to his side and the two of them embrace.  Then the

ants pick up Z and Bala, and, CHEERING, bear them away.

Only Carpenter stays behind.  He walks up to Formica,

carrying his dented and dusty helmet.  He cleans it the best

he can with his jacket sleeve and hands it to his fallen

general.

CLOSE UP OF Z

As he addresses the audience, stand-up style.

INT. TOWN CENTER - DAY

A HUGE ASSEMBLY OF ANTS applauds as Z who is given a medal by

the Queen.

GENERAL FORMICA'S FACE, looking extremely dispeptic.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL Formica clinging to a wall, his belly

hideously distended with honeydew.

WEAVER, in Formica's old office, in a general's uniform, his

feet up on Formica's desk, smoking a cigar.  Carpenter is on

his hands and knees scrubbing the floor.

cut back to

Z, ADDRESSING THE AUDIENCE.

Bala enters the frame, embraces and kisses him.

WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL

INT. Z'S HOUSE - DAY

Z and Bala stand in the midst of their living room, up to

their knees in THOUSANDS OF CHILD ANTS.  The children cover

every horizontal surface.  They run around, cry, laugh, and

tease each other.  Z looks around the room, looks back at us,

and shrugs.

The camera pulls up...and away from the ground...to reveal

that this whole story has been taking place in a small area

of CENTRAL PARK.  We pull back and back, and see all the

familiar landmarks from the story: the bike path, the

drinking fountain, etc.  We tilt up into the NEW YORK

SKYLINE.  BIG MUSICAL FLOURISH.

FADE OUT.

THE END

