<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

The Apartment by Billy Wilder and I.A.L. Diamond

A DESK COMPUTER

A man's hand is punching out a series of figures on the

keyboard.

THE INSURANCE BUILDING - A WET, FALL DAY

It's a big mother, covering a square block in lower

Manhattan, all glass and aluminum, jutting into the leaden

sky.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR

Acres of gray steel desk, gray steel filing cabinets, and

steel-gray faces under indirect light.  One wall is lined

with glass-enclosed cubicles for the supervisory personnel.

It is all very neat, antiseptic, impersonal.  The only human

tough is supplied by a bank of IBM machines, clacking away

cheerfully in the background.

DESK 861

Like every other desk, it has a small name plate attached to

the side.  This one reads C.C. BAXTER.

BAXTER is about thirty, serious, hard-working, unobtrusive.

He wears a Brooks Brothers type suit, which he bought

somewhere on Seventh Avenue, upstairs.  There is a stack of

perforated premium cards in front of him, and he is totaling

them on the computing machine.  He looks off.

ELECTRIC WALL CLOCK

It shows 5:19.  With a click, the minute hand jumps to 5:20,

and a piercing bell goes off.

FULL SHOT - OFFICE

Instantly all work stops.  Papers are being put away,

typewriters and computing machines are covered, and everybody

starts clearing out.  Within ten seconds, the place is

empty -- except for Bud Baxter, still bent over his work,

marooned in a sea of abandoned desks.

STREET IN THE WEST SIXTIES - EVENING

Bud, wearing a weather-beaten Ivy League raincoat and a

narrow-brimmed brown hat, comes walking slowly down the

street skirting the puddles on the sidewalk.  He stops in

front of a converted brownstone, looks up.

The windows on the second floor are lit, but the shades are

drawn.  From inside drifts the sound of cha cha music.

INT. THE APARTMENT - EVENING

What used to be the upstairs parlor of a one-family house in

the early 1900's has been chopped up into living room,

bedroom, bathroom and kitchen.  The wallpaper is faded, the

carpets are threadbare, and the upholstered furniture could

stand shampooing.  There are lots of books, a record player,

stacks of records, a television set (21 inches and 24

payments), unframed prints from the Museum of Modern Art

(Picasso, Braque, Klee) tacked up on the walls.

Only one lamp is lit, for mood, and a cha cha record is

spinning around on the phonograph.  On the coffee table in

front of the couch are a couple of cocktail glasses, a

pitcher with some martini dregs, an almost empty bottle of

vodka, a soup bowl with a few melting ice cubes at the

bottom, some potato chips, an ashtray filled with cigar

stubs and lipstick-stained cigarette butts, and a woman's

handbag.

MR. KIRKEBY, a dapper, middle-aged man, stands in front of

the mirror above the fake fireplace, buttoning up his vest.

He does not notice that the buttons are out of alignment.

SYLVIA, a first baseman of a dame, redheaded and saftig,

comes cha cha-ing into the room, trying to fasten a necklace

as she hums along with the music.  She dances amorously up

to Kirkeby.

He helps her with the necklace, then turns off the phonograph.

She crosses to the coffee table, starts to pour the remnants

of the vodka into the pitcher.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - EVENING

Bud is pacing back and forth, throwing an occasional glance

at the lit windows of his apartment.  A middle-aged woman

with a dog on a leash approaches along the sidewalk.

She is MRS. LIEBERMAN, the dog is a Scottie, and they are

both wearing raincoats.  Seeing them, Bud leans casually

against the stoop.

She and the Scottie disappear into the house.  Bud resumes

pacing, his eyes on the apartment windows.  Suddenly he

stops -- the lights have gone out.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - EVENING

Kirkeby, in coat and hat, stands in the open doorway of the

darkened apartment.

Sylvia comes cha cha-ing out, wearing an imitation Persian

lamb coat, her hat askew on her head, bag, gloves, and an

umbrella in her hand.

He locks the door, slips the key under the doormat.

She points to his exposed vest.  Kirkeby looks down, sees

that the buttons are out of line.  He starts to rebutton

them as they move down the narrow, dimly-lit stairs.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - EVENING

Bud, standing on the sidewalk, sees the front door start to

open.  He moves quickly into the areaway, almost bumping

into the ashcans, stands in the shadow of the stoop with his

back turned discreetly toward Kirkeby and Sylvia as they

come down the steps.

They move down the street.  Bud appears from the areaway,

glances after them, then mounts the steps, goes through the

front door.

INT. VESTIBULE - EVENING

There are eight mailboxes.  Bud opens his, takes out a

magazine in a paper wrapper and a few letters, proceeds up

the staircase.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - EVENING

Bud, glancing through his mail, comes up to the door of his

apartment.  As he bends down to lift the doormat, the door

of the rear apartment opens and MRS. DREYFUSS, a jovial

well-fed middle-aged woman, puts out a receptacle full of

old papers and empty cans.  Bud looks around from his bent

position.

He slides it out from under the mat, straightens up.

He ducks into the apartment.

INT. THE APARTMENT - EVENING

Bud snaps on the lights, drops the mail and the key on a

small table, looks around with distaste at the mess his

visitors have left behind.  He sniffs the stale air, crosses

to the window, pulls up the shade, opens it wide.  Now he

takes off his hat and raincoat, gathers up the remains of

the cocktail party from the coffee table.  Loaded down with

glasses, pitcher, empty vodka bottle, ice bowl and potato

chips, he starts toward the kitchen.

The doorbell rings.  Bud stops, undecided what to do with

the stuff in his hands, then crosses to the hall door,

barely manages to get it open.  Mr. Kirkeby barges in past

him.

He scours the room for the missing galoshes.

He exits, shutting the door.

He carries his load into the kitchen.

The kitchen is minute and cluttered.  On the drainboard are

an empty vermouth bottle, some ice-cube trays, a jar with

one olive in it, and a crumpled potato-chip bag.

Bud comes in, dumps his load on the drainboard, opens the

old-fashioned refrigerator.  He takes out a frozen chicken

dinner, turns the oven on, lights it with a match, rips the

protective paper off the aluminum tray and shoves it in.

Now he starts to clean up the mess on the drainboard.  He

rinses the cocktail glasses, is about to empty the martini

pitcher into the sink, thinks better of it.  He pours the

contents into a glass, plops the lone olive out of the jar,

scoops up the last handful of potato chips, toasts an

imaginary companion, and drinks up.  Then he pulls a

wastebasket from under the sink.

It is brimful of liquor bottles, and Bud adds the empty

vodka and vermouth bottles and the olive jar.  Picking up

the heavy receptacle, he carries it through the living room

toward the hall door.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - EVENING

The door of Bud's apartment opens, and Bud comes out with

the wastebasket full of empty bottles.  Just then, DR. DAVID

DREYFUSS, whose wife we met earlier, comes trudging up the

stairs.  He is a tall, heavy-set man of fifty, with a bushy

mustache, wearing a bulky overcoat and carrying an aged

medical bag.

He starts into the rear apartment as Bud closes the door.

INT. THE APARTMENT - EVENING

Bud, loosening his tie, goes into the kitchen, opens the

oven, turns off the gas.  He takes a coke out of the

refrigerator, uncaps it, gets a knife and fork from a

drawer, and using his handkerchief as a potholder, pulls the

hot aluminum tray out of the oven.  He carries everything

out into the living room.

In the living room, Bud sets his dinner down on the coffee

table, settles himself on the couch.  He rears up as

something stabs him, reaches under his buttocks, pulls out a

hairpin.  He drops it into an ashtray, tackles his dinner.

Without even looking, he reaches over to the end table and

presses the remote TV station-selector.  He takes a sip from

the coke bottle, his eyes on the TV screen across the room.

The picture on the TV set jells quickly.  Against a

background of crisscrossing searchlights, a pompous announcer

is making his spiel.

There is an extended fanfare.  Bud leans forward, chewing

excitedly on a chicken leg.

Bud, still eating, automatically reaches for the station-

selector, pushes the button.

A new channel pops on.  It features a Western -- Cockamamie

Indians are attacking a stagecoach.

That's not for Bud.  He switches to another station.  In a

frontier saloon, Gower Street cowboys are dismantling the

furniture and each other.

Bud wearily changes channels.  But he can't get away from

Westerns -- on this station, the U.S. Cavalry is riding to

the rescue.  Will they get there in time?

Bud doesn't wait to find out.  He switches channels again,

and is back where he started.

On the screen, once more, is the announcer standing in front

of the crisscrossing searchlights.

That does it.  Bud turns the set off in disgust.

The TV screen blacks out, except for a small pinpoint of

light in the center, which gradually fades away.

In the bathroom, Bud, in pajamas by now, is brushing his

teeth.  From the shower rod hang three pairs of socks on

stretchers.  Bud takes a vial from the medicine shelf,

shakes out a sleeping pill, washes it down with a glass of

water.  He turns the light off, walks into the bedroom.

In the bedroom, the single bed is made, and the lamp on the

night table is on.  Bud plugs in the electric blanket, turns

the dial on.  Then he climbs into bed, props up the pillow

behind him.  From the night table, he picks up the magazine

that arrived in the mail, slides it out of the wrapper,

opens it.  It's the new issue of PLAYBOY.  Bud leafs through

it till he comes to the piece de resistance of the magazine.

He unfolds the overleaf, glances at it casually, refolds it,

then turns to the back of the magazine and starts to read.

What he is so avidly interested in is the men's fashion

section.  There is a layout titled WHAT THE YOUNG EXECUTIVE

WILL WEAR with a sub-head reading The Bowler is Back.

Illustrating the article are several photographs of male

models wearing various styles of bowlers.

Bud is definitely in the market for a bowler, but somehow

his mind starts wandering.  He turns back to the overleaf

again, unfolds it, studies it, then holds the magazine up

vertically to get a different perspective on the subject.

By now the sleeping pill is beginning to take effect, and he

yawns.  He drops the magazine on the floor, kills the light,

settles down to sleep.  The room is dark except for the glow

from the dial of the electric blanket.

Three seconds.  Then the phone jangles shrilly in the living

room.  Bud stumbles groggily out of bed, and putting on his

slippers, makes his way into the living room.  He switches

on the light, picks up the phone.

INT. PHONE BOOTH IN A MANHATTAN BAR - NIGHT

On the night is a hearty man of about forty-five, nothing

gut personality, most of it obnoxious.  His name is DOBISCH.

Outside the booth is a blonde babe, slightly boozed, and

beyond there is a suggestion of the packed, smoky joint.

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

The blonde opens the door of the phone booth, leans in.

Dobisch shuts the door in her face.

BUD - ON PHONE

INT. PHONE BOOTH

INT. THE APARTMENT

He hangs up, shuffles back into the bedroom.

He reappears from the bedroom, pulling his trousers on over

his pajama pants.

Putting on his raincoat and hat, Bud opens the hall door,

takes the key from the table, shoves it under the doormat.

His eyes fall on the Dreyfuss apartment, and there is some

concern on his face.  He picks up a pad and pencil from the

table, prints something in block letters.  Tearing off the

top sheet, he impales it on the spindle of the phonograph,

then walks out, closing the door behind him.  The note reads:

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - NIGHT

Bud comes out the door, in slippered feet, pants and raincoat

over his pajamas.  As he sleep-walks down the steps, a cab

pulls up in front of the house.  Bud ducks discreetly into

the areaway.  Mr. Dobisch, bareheaded, emerges cautiously

from the cab.  Between the fingers of his hands he is

carrying four long-stemmed glasses, brimful of stingers.

The blonde steps out, holding his hat.

Dobisch, his hands full of stingers, turns to the blonde,

indicates his pants pocket.

The blonde plants the hat on top of his head, unbuttons his

overcoat, reaches into his pants pocket.  As she does so,

she jogs his elbow.

The blonde has taken out Dobisch's money clip, with about a

hundred dollars in it.

The blonde peels a bill off, hands it to the cabbie, hangs

on to the rest of the roll just a second too long.

The cab drives off.  Dobisch and the blonde start up the

steps to the house.

In the areaway, Bud has overheard them, and it doesn't make

him any happier.  He steps out on the sidewalk, shuffles

down the street.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

The blonde and Dobisch, his hands full of stingers, come up

to Bud's door.

Automatically, she reaches into his pocket.

The blonde unlocks the door to the apartment, opens it.

Dobisch nudges her inside with his knee, kicks the door shut

behind him.

The landing is empty for a second.  Then the door of the

rear apartment opens, and Dr. Dreyfuss, in a beaten bathrobe,

sets out a couple of empty milk bottles with a note in them.

Suddenly, from Bud's apartment, comes a shrill female giggle.

Dr. Dreyfuss reacts.  Then the cha cha music starts full

blast.

Shaking his head, he closes the door.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - NIGHT

Bud, in raincoat and slippered feet, turns in off the

street, plods along a path in the deserted park.  He stops

at a damp bench under a lamp post, sits.  In the background,

lights shine from the towering buildings on Central Park

South.

Bud huddles inside his raincoat, shivering.  He is very

sleepy by now.  His eyes close and his head droops.  A gust

of wind sends wet leaves swirling across the bench.  Bud

doesn't stir.  He is all in.

FADE IN:

INT. LOBBY INSURANCE BUILDING - DAY

It's a quarter to nine of a gray November morning, and work-

bound employees are piling in through the doors.  Among them

is Bud, bundled up in a raincoat, hat, heavy muffler and

wool gloves, and carrying a box of Kleenex.  He coughs,

pulls out a tissue, wipes his dripping nose.  He has a bad

cold.

The lobby is an imposing, marbled affair, as befits a

company which last year wrote 9.3 billion dollars worth of

insurance.  There are sixteen elevators, eight of them

marked LOCAL - FLOORS 1-18, and opposite them eight marked

EXPRESS - FLOORS 18-37.  The starter, a uniformed Valkyrie

wielding a clicker, is directing the flow of traffic into

the various elevators.

Bud joins the crowd in front of one of the express elevators.

Also standing there is Mr. Kirkeby, reading the Herald-

Tribune.

The elevator doors open, revealing the operator.  She is in

her middle twenties and her name is FRAN KUBELIK.  Maybe

it's the way she's put together, maybe it's her face, or

maybe it's just the uniform -- in any case, there is

something very appealing about her.  She is also an

individualist -- she wears a carnation in her lapel, which

is strictly against regulations.  As the elevator loads, she

greets the passengers cheerfully.

Interspersed is an occasional "Morning, Miss Kubelik" from

the passengers.

He takes his hat off -- he is the only one.  The express is

now loaded.

INT. ELEVATOR

Bud is standing right next to Fran as the packed express

shoots up.

He sniffs, takes out a Kleenex, wipes his nose.

The elevator has slowed down, now stops.  Fran opens the door.

About a third of the passengers get out, including Bud and

Mr. Kirkeby.  As Kirkeby passes Fran, he slaps her behind

with his folded newspaper.  Fran jumps slightly.

She withdraws her hand into the sleeve of her uniform, and

waves the "amputated" arm at him.

The doors close.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

Kirkeby turns away from the elevator, and grinning smugly,

falls in beside Bud.

Leaving Bud at the employees' coat-racks, Kirkeby heads

toward his office, one of the glass-enclosed cubicles.  Bud

hangs up his hat and raincoat, stows away the gloves and

muffler.  Out of his coat pocket he takes a plastic anti-

histamine sprayer and a box of cough drops, and still

carrying the Kleenex, threads his way to his desk.  Most of

the desks are already occupied, and the others are filling

rapidly.

Once seated at his desk, Bud arranges his medicaments neatly

in front of him. He takes a Kleenex out of the box, blows

his nose, then leaning back in his swivel chair sprays first

one nostril, then the other. Suddenly the piercing bell goes

off -- the workday has begun. Being the ultra-conscientious

type, Bud instantly sits upright in his chair, removes the

cover from his computing machine, picks up a batch of

perforated premium cards, starts entering figures on his

computer.

After a few seconds, he glances around to make sure that

everybody in the vicinity is busy. Then he looks up a number

in the company telephone directory, dials furtively.

INT. DOBISCH'S OFFICE - DAY

It is a glass-enclosed cubicle on the twenty-first floor.

Through the glass we see another enormous layout of desks,

everybody working away. Dobisch is holding the phone in one

hand, running an electric shaver over his face with the other.

BUD - ON PHONE

DOBISCH - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

DOBISCH - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

DOBISCH - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

He hangs up, feels his forehead. It is warm. Clipped to his

handkerchief pocket are a black fountain pen and, next to

it, a thermometer in a black case. Bud unclips the

thermometer case, unscrews the cap, shakes the thermometer

out, puts it under his tongue. He resumes work.

A messenger comes up to his desk with an interoffice envelope.

He turns away from the messenger, unties the string of the

envelope, takes his key out, puts it in a coat pocket. From

a trouser pocket, he extracts Dobisch's key to the executive

washroom, slips it discreetly into the envelope, reties it,

hands it to the messenger.

Puzzled by the whole procedure, the messenger leaves. Bud

now removes the thermometer from his mouth, reads it. It's

worse than he thought. He puts the thermometer back in the

case, clips it to his pocket, takes his desk calendar out of

a drawer, turns a leaf. Under the date WEDNESDAY, NOVEMBER 4

there is an entry in his handwriting -- MR. VANDERHOF. Bud

consults the telephone directory again, picks up the phone,

dials.

INT. VANDERHOF'S OFFICE - DAY

This is another glass-enclosed cubicle on another floor. MR.

VANDERHOF, a Junior Chamber of Commerce type, is dictating

to an elderly secretary who sits across the desk from him.

BUD - ON PHONE

VANDERHOF - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

VANDERHOF - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

VANDERHOF - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

VANDERHOF - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

He hangs up, riffles through the directory, finds the

number, and with a furtive look around, dials again.

INT. EICHELBERGER'S OFFICE - DAY

Also glass-enclosed, but slightly larger than the others. MR.

EICHELBERGER, a solid citizen of about fifty, is displaying

some mortgage graphs to three associates. A fourth one has

answered the phone.

Eichelberger puts the charts down, takes the phone.

BUD - ON PHONE

He hangs up, consults the directory, starts to dial a number.

INT. KIRKEBY'S OFFICE - DAY

It's another of those glass-enclosed cubicles, on the

nineteenth floor. Kirkeby is talking into a dictaphone.

The phone has been ringing. Kirkeby switches off the machine,

picks up the phone.

BUD - ON PHONE

KIRKEBY - ON PHONE

He presses down the button on the cradle, dials Operator.

INT. SWITCHBOARD ROOM

There is a double switchboard in the center, with nine girls

on each side, all busy as beavers. In the foreground we

recognize Sylvia, Kirkeby's date of last night.

The girl next to her turns and holds out a line.

Sylvia plugs the call into her own switchboard.

KIRKEBY - ON PHONE

SYLVIA - AT SWITCHBOARD

KIRKEBY - ON PHONE

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

Bud, at his desk, is on the phone.

During this, the phone has rung at the next desk, and the

occupant, MR. MOFFETT, has picked it up. As Bud hangs up --

He jumps up, stuffs the nose-spray into one pocket, a

handful of Kleenex into the other.

Bud snake-hips between the desks like a broken-field runner.

At the elevator, Bud presses the UP button, paces nervously.

One of the elevator doors opens, and as Bud starts inside,

the doors of the adjoining elevator open, and Fran Kubelik

sticks her head out.

Hearing her voice, Bud throws a quick "Excuse me" to the

other operator, exits quickly and steps into Fran's elevator.

Fran shuts the doors.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Fran presses a button, and the elevator starts up.

The elevator has stopped, and Fran opens the doors.

INT. TWENTY-SEVENTH FLOOR FOYER - DAY

It is pretty plush up here -- soft carpeting and tall

mahogany doors leading to the executive offices. The elevator

door is open, and Bud steps out.

She takes the carnation out of her lapel, starts to put it

in Bud's buttonhole.

The elevator buzzer is now sounding insistently.  Fran steps

back inside.

She shuts the doors. Bud looks after her, then takes a

Kleenex out of his pocket, and wiping his nose, crosses to a

glass door marked J. D. SHELDRAKE, DIRECTOR OF PERSONNEL. He

stashes the used Kleenex away in another pocket, enters.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

It is a sedate office with a secretary and a couple of

typists. The secretary's name is MISS OLSEN. She is in her

thirties, flaxen- haired, handsome, wears harlequin glasses,

and has an incisive manner. Bud comes up to her desk.

She indicates the door leading to the inner office. Bud

squares his shoulders and starts in.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Mr. Sheldrake is a $14,000 a year man, and rates a four-

window office.

It is not quite an executive suite, but it is several pegs

above the glass cubicles of the middle echelon. There is

lots of leather, and a large desk behind which sits MR.

SHELDRAKE. He is a substantial looking, authoritative man in

his middle forties, a pillar of his suburban community, a

blood donor and a family man. The latter is attested to by a

framed photograph showing two boys, aged 8 and 10, in

military school uniforms.

As Baxter comes through the door, Sheldrake is leafing

through Dobisch's efficiency report. He looks up at Bud

through a pair of heavy-rimmed reading glasses.

He seats himself on the very edge of the leather armchair

facing Sheldrake.

Sheldrake puts the report down, takes off his glasses, leans

across the desk toward Bud.

Bud does so. For a moment, he is a picture of intense

concentration. Then --

He whips out the nasal-spray, administers a couple of quick

squirts up each nostril.

In his vehemence he squeezes the spray bottle, which squirts

all over the desk.

The phone buzzer sounds, and Sheldrake picks up the phone.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

Miss Olsen is on the phone.

She presses a button down, starts to hang the phone up,

glances around to see if the typists are watching, then

raises the receiver to her ear and eavesdrops on the

conversation.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheldrake is talking into the phone.

During this, Bud has risen from his chair, started inching

toward the door.

Sheldrake picks up the Dobisch reports, puts on his glasses,

turns a page.

He reaches into his coat pocket, fishes out a handful of

Kleenex, and then finally the key to his apartment. He holds

it up.

Bud lays the key on the desk, unclips what he thinks is his

fountain pen, uncaps it, starts writing on the pad.

Suddenly he realizes that he has been trying to write the

address with the thermometer.

He has replaced the thermometer with the fountain pen, and

is scribbling the address.

He has finished writing the address, shoves the pad over to

Sheldrake.

Clutching the tickets, he backs out of the office.

INT. LOBBY INSURANCE BUILDING - EVENING

It is about 6:30, and the building has pretty well emptied

out by now. Bud, in raincoat and hat, is leaning against one

of the marble pillars beyond the elevators. His raincoat is

unbuttoned, and Fran's carnation is still in his lapel. He

is looking off expectantly toward a door marked EMPLOYEES'

LOUNGE - WOMEN.

Some of the female employees are emerging, dressed for the

street. Among them are Sylvia and her colleague from the

switchboard.

They pass Bud without paying any attention to him. Bud has

heard the crack, and looks after Sylvia, a little hurt. Then

he glances back toward the door of the lounge, as it opens

and Fran Kubelik comes out. She is wearing a wool coat over

a street dress, no hat.

She is about three paces beyond him when he suddenly realizes

who it is.

She proceeds across the lobby toward the street entrance,

Bud following her.

He follows her out through the revolving doors.

EXT. INSURANCE BUILDING - EVENING

Fran and Bud come out.

Bud nods happily, falls in beside her as she starts down the

street.

They have now reached the corner, and Fran stops.

He watches her walk away, an idiot grin on his face. Despite

what he told Fran, his nose is stuffed up, so he takes out

the anti-histamine and sprays his nostrils. Then, carried

away, he squirts some of the stuff on the carnation in his

buttonhole, moves off in the opposite direction.

EXT. DOWNTOWN STREET - EVENING

Fran comes hurrying along the street. She is late. Her

objective is a small Chinese restaurant, with a neon sign

reading THE RICKSHAW - COCKTAILS - CANTONESE FOOD. She

starts down a flight of steps leading to the entrance.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - EVENING

The bar is a long, narrow, dimly-lit room with booths along

one side. Beyond a bamboo curtain is the main dining room,

which does not concern us. The place is decorated in Early

Beachcomber style rattan, fish-nets, conch-shells, etc.

The help is Chinese. At this early hour, there are only half

a dozen customers in the place -- all at the bar except for

one man, sitting in the last booth with his back toward

camera. At a piano, a Chinese member of Local 808 is

improvising mood music.

Fran comes through the door, and without looking around,

heads straight for the last booth. The bartender nods to

her -- they know her there. As she passes the piano player,

he gives her a big smile, segues into JEALOUS LOVER.

Fran comes up to the man sitting in the last booth.

Sheldrake, for that's who it is, looks around nervously to

make sure no one has heard her.

A waiter comes up with a tray: two daiquiris, fried shrimp,

eggrolls, and a bowl of sauce.

The waiter has set everything on the table, leaves.

There are tears in her eyes. She breaks off, downs what's

left of the daiquiri.

She takes out an inexpensive square compact with a fleur de

lis pattern on it, opens it, starts to fix her face. The

waiter comes up with a couple of menus.

EXT. MAJESTIC THEATRE - EVENING

It is 8:25, and there is the usual hectic to-do -- taxis

pulling up, people milling around the sidewalk and crowding

into the lobby. In the middle of this melee, buffeted by the

throng, stands Bud, in raincoat and hat, looking anxiously

for Fran.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - EVENING

Fran and Sheldrake, in the booth, are working on the second

round of drinks.

He takes her hand, kisses it. The bar has been filling up,

and now two couples are seating themselves in a nearby booth.

One of the women is Miss Olsen.

She indicates the other customers. Sheldrake glances over

his shoulder.

They rise. Sheldrake leaves some money on the table, leads

Fran toward the entrance. As they pass Miss Olsen's booth,

she turns around slowly, and putting on her glasses, looks

after them.

Sheldrake slips a bill to the piano player, who gives them a

big smile, slides into JEALOUS LOVER again. Retrieving his

hat and coat from the checkroom girl, Sheldrake steers Fran

through the door.

Miss Olsen watches them with a cold smile.

EXT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - EVENING

Fran and Sheldrake come up the steps.

It passes without stopping.

Another taxi approaches. Sheldrake gives a shrill whistle,

and it pulls up. He opens the door.

He helps her into the cab, takes out of his coat pocket the

page from the pad on which Bud wrote the address of the

apartment.

He gets in beside Fran, shuts the door. As the cab pulls

away, through the rear window the two can be seen kissing.

EXT. MAJESTIC THEATRE - EVENING

It's 9 o'clock, the lobby is deserted, and standing on the

sidewalk all by himself, is Bud. He takes a Kleenex out of

his pocket, blows his nose, stuffs the used Kleenex in

another pocket. He looks up and down the street, consults

his watch, decides to wait just a little longer.

FADE IN:

BAXTER'S DESK CALENDAR

The leaves are flipping over. Mr. Sheldrake seems to be

using The Apartment regularly -- for the name Sheldrake, in

Bud's handwriting, appears on the pages dated Monday,

November 9, Thursday, November 12, Thursday, November 19,

Monday, November 23, and Monday, November 30. Mr. Sheldrake

also seems to be Baxter's only customer by now, since the

other leaves of the calendar are blank.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - INSURANCE BUILDING - DAY

It is a gloomy December morning, and hundreds of desk-bound

employees are bent over their paper-work.

Bud Baxter, in raincoat and hat, is clearing out his desk.

He has piled everything on his blotter pad -- reference

books, papers, a fountain pen set, pencils, paper clips and

the calendar. Watching him from the next desk is a

dumbfounded Moffett. Bud picks up the blotter pad with his

stuff on it, and as he moves past Moffett's desk, Moffett

takes out a dollar bill, drops it grudgingly on the loaded

pad. Bud flashes him a little grin, continues between the

desks toward the row of glass-enclosed offices housing the

supervisory personnel.

He comes up to an unoccupied cubicle. A sign painter is

brushing in some new lettering on the glass door -- it reads

C. C. BAXTER, Second Administrative Assistant. Bud studies

the sign with a good deal of satisfaction.

With an "Oh, " the painter opens the door for him.

INT. BAXTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud enters his new office, deposits his stuff on the bare

desk, looks around possessively. The small cubicle boasts

one window, carpeting on the floor, a filing cabinet, a

couple of synthetic-leather chairs, and a clothes-tree -- to

Bud, it is the Taj Mahal. He crosses to the clothes-tree,

removes his hat and coat, hangs them up. From OFF comes --

Bud turns. Kirkeby, Dobisch, Eichelberger and Vanderhof have

come into the office.

Kirkeby signals to Vanderhof, who shuts the door. The four

charter members of the club start closing in on Bud.

He has picked up the desk calendar, shoves it discreetly

into one of the drawers.

He deliberately flips a cigar ash on Bud's desk. At the same

time, the door opens, and Sheldrake comes striding in briskly.

The others swivel around.

The four friends manage to work up some sickly smiles.

They leave. Sheldrake and Bud are alone.

He glances toward the glass partitions to make sure that

nobody is watching.

Out of his pocket he has slipped the compact with the fleur-

de-lis pattern we saw Fran use at the Rickshaw. He holds it

out to Sheldrake.

Sheldrake exits. Bud takes the calendar out of the desk

drawer, makes an entry.

BAXTER'S DESK CALENDAR

Again the leaves are flipping over, and again we see

Sheldrake's name in Bud's handwriting -- booked for the

following dates: Monday, December 14, Thursday, December 17,

Monday, December 21, Thursday, December 24.

INT. SWITCHBOARD ROOM - DAY

Perched on top of the switchboard is a small decorated

Christmas tree, and the operators are dispensing holiday

greetings to all callers.

In the foreground, Sylvia is engaged in a private

conversation of her own.

She tears off her headset, and turns to the other girls.

She scoots out the door. The other girls immediately abandon

their posts, and dash after her.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

It's a swinging party, all right. Nobody is working. Several

desks have been cleared and pushed together, and on top of

this improvised stage four female employees and Mr. Dobisch,

with his pants-legs rolled up, are doing a Rockette kick

routine to the tune of JINGLE BELLS. Employees are ringed

around the performers, some drinking out of paper cups,

others singing and clapping in rhythm.

One of the cubicles has been transformed into a bar, and it

is jammed with people. Mr. Kirkeby and Mr. Vanderhof are

pouring -- each has a couple of bottles of liquor in his

hands, and is emptying them into the open top of a water-

cooler.

But the stuff is flowing out as fast as it flows in --

everybody is in line with a paper cup waiting for a refill.

Bud comes shouldering his way out of the crowded cubicle,

holding aloft two paper cups filled with booze. Since his

promotion he has bought himself a new suit, dark flannel,

and with it he wears a white shirt with a pinned round

collar, and a foulard tie. He also has quite a glow on.

Detouring past necking couples, he heads in the direction of

the elevators.

The doors of Fran's elevator are just opening, and the

switchboard operators, led by Sylvia, come streaming out.

As they head for the party, they pass Bud, who is approaching

the elevator with the two drinks. Fran is just closing the

elevator doors.

The doors slide open again, and Fran looks out. Instead of

the customary carnation in the lapel of her uniform, she

wears a sprig of holly.

They down their drinks. Bud takes the empty cup from her.

He reaches into the elevator, takes a cardboard sign off a

hook, hangs it on the elevator door. It reads USE OTHER

ELEVATOR.

They have now reached the entrance to the bar, which is

overflowing with thirsty natives.

He leaves her outside the cubicle, and elbows his way

through the crowd toward the booze-filled water cooler. Out

of another cubicle comes Miss Olsen, cup in hand. She too

has had quite a few. Seeing Fran, she walks up to her, with

an acid smile on her face.

Bud comes burrowing out of the crowded cubicle, balancing

the two filled paper cups, spots Fran.

Fran turns away from Miss Olsen.

She moves off as Bud joins Fran, who is looking a little pale.

INT. BAXTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud ushers Fran in, and is confronted by a strange couple

necking in the corner. He gestures them out, crosses to his

desk.

From under the desk he has produced a hatbox, and out of the

hatbox a black bowler, which he now puts on his head.

Fran looks at him blankly, absorbed in her own thoughts.

He has picked up a Christmas card from his desk, shows it to

Fran. It is a photograph of the Sheldrake clan grouped

around an elaborate Christmas tree -- Mr. and Mrs.

Sheldrake, the two boys in military school uniforms, and a

big French poodle. Underneath it says:

Fran takes her compact out of her uniform pocket, opens it,

hands it to Bud.

His voice trails off. There is something familiar about the

cracked mirror of the compact -- and the fleur-de-lis

pattern on the case confirms his suspicion. Fran notices the

peculiar expression on his face.

The phone has started to ring. Bud doesn't hear it. He

closes the compact, hands it to Fran.

She exits, closing the door. Bud takes his hand off the

mouthpiece.

He hangs up, stands there for a moment, the bowler still on

his head, the noise from the party washing over him. He

slowly crosses to the clothes-tree. picks up his coat -- a

new, black chesterfield. With the coat over his arm, he

starts out of the office.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

The party has picked up tempo. On top of the desks, Sylvia

is doing a mock strip tease -- without taking any clothes

off. There is hollering, drinking and clapping all around her.

Bud moves past the floor show, paying no attention. Kirkeby

spots him, detaches himself from the cheering section around

Sylvia.

Bud ignores him, continues walking through the ranks of

empty desks.

INT. CHEAP BAR - COLUMBUS AVENUE IN THE SIXTIES - EVENING

It is six o'clock, and the joint is crowded with customers

having one for the road before joining their families for

Christmas Eve. There are men with gaily wrapped packages,

small trussed-up Christmas trees, a plucked turkey in a

plastic bag. Written across the mirror behind the bar, in

glittering white letters, is HAPPY HOLIDAYS. Everybody is in

high spirits, laughing it up and toasting each other.

Everybody except Bud Baxter. He is standing at the bar in

his chesterfield and bowler, slightly isolated, brooding

over an almost empty martini glass. The bartender comes up,

sets down a fresh martini with an olive on a toothpick,

takes his payment from a pile of bills and coins lying in

front of Bud. Bud fishes out the olive, adds it to half a

dozen other impaled olives neatly arranged in fan shape on

the counter. He is obviously trying to complete the circle.

A short, rotund man dressed as Santa Claus hurries in from

the street, and comes up to the bar beside Bud.

He laughs uproariously at his own joke, nudges Bud with his

elbow. Bud stares at him coldly, turns back to his martini.

The laughter dies in Santa Claus' throat. He gets his short

of bourbon, moves down the bar to find more convivial company.

Standing near the end of the curved bar is a girl in her

middle twenties wearing a ratty fur coat. Her name is MARGIE

MacDOUGALL, she is drinking a Rum Collins through a straw,

and she too is alone. From a distance, she is studying Bud

with interest. On the bar in front of her is a container of

straws in paper wrappers. She takes one of them out, tears

off the end of the paper, blows through the straw -- sending

the wrapper floating toward Bud. The paper wrapper passes

right in front of Bud's nose. He doesn't notice it.

Margie, undaunted, lets go with another missile.

This time the wrapper lands on the brim of Bud's bowler. No

reaction. Another wrapper comes floating in, hits Bud's

cheek. He never takes his eye off his martini.

Margie leaves her place, and carrying her handbag and her

empty glass, comes up alongside Bud. Without a word, she

reaches up and removes the wrapper from Bud's bowler.

Not waiting for an answer, she heads for the juke box. Bud

looks after her noncommittally, then turns to the bartender.

At the juke box, Margie has dropped a coin in and made her

selection. The music starts -- ADESTE FIDELIS. She rejoins

Bud at the bar just as the bartender is putting down their

drinks in front of them. Bud removes the new olive, adds it

to the pattern on the counter in front of him. They both

drink, staring straight ahead. For quite a while, there is

complete silence between them.

They sit there silently for a moment, contemplating the

injustices of the world.

They both drink.

INT. BUD'S APARTMENT - EVENING

The living room is dark, except for a shaft of light from

the kitchen, and the glow of the colored bulbs on a small

Christmas tree in front of the phony fireplace.

Hunched up in one corner of the couch is Fran, still in her

coat and gloves, crying softly. Pacing up and down is

Sheldrake. His coat and hat are on a chair, as are several

Christmas packages. On the coffee table are an unopened

bottle of Scotch, a couple of untouched glasses, and a bowl

of melting ice.

Fran has taken a handkerchief out of her bag and is dabbing

her eyes.

She hands him a flat, wrapped package.

He strips away the wrapping to reveal a long-playing record.

The cover reads: RICKSHAW BOY - Jimmy Lee Kiang with

Orchestra.

He holds the money out, but she doesn't move. Sheldrake

slips the bill into her open bag.

Fran gets up slowly and starts peeling off her gloves.

Sheldrake looks at her, then glances nervously at his wrist

watch.

Fran has started to remove her coat.

Sheldrake hurriedly puts on his hat and coat, gathers up his

packages.

Holding the packages to one side, he tries to kiss her on

the mouth.

He kisses her on the cheek, hurries out of the apartment,

closing the door. Fran stands there for a while, blinking

back tears, then takes the long-playing record out of its

envelope, crosses to the phonograph. She puts the record on,

starts the machine -- the music is JEALOUS LOVER. As it

plays, Fran wanders aimlessly around the darkened room, her

body wracked by sobs. Finally she regains control of herself,

and picking up her handbag, starts through the bedroom

toward the bathroom.

In the bathroom, Fran switches on the light, puts her bag on

the sink, turns on the faucet. Scooping up some water, she

washes the smeared mascara away, then turns the faucet off,

picks up a towel As she is drying her face, she notices in

the pull-away shaving mirror the magnified reflection of a

vial of pills on the medicine shelf. Fran reaches out for

the vial, turns it slowly around in her hand. The label

reads: SECONAL - ONE AT BEDTIME AS NEEDED FOR SLEEP.

Fran studies the label for a second, then returns the vial

to the shelf. She opens her handbag, takes out a lipstick.

As she does so, she sees the hundred dollar bill Sheldrake

left in the bag. Her eyes wander back to the vial on the

medicine shelf. Then very deliberately she picks up Bud's

mouthwash glass, removes the two toothbrushes from it, turns

on the faucet, starts filling the glass with water.

INT. CHEAP BAR - COLUMBUS AVENUE - NIGHT

The joint is deserted now except for the Santa Claus, who is

leaning against the bar, quite loaded, and Bud and Margie

MacDougall, who are dancing to a slow blues coming from the

juke box. Bud is still in his overcoat and bowler, and

Margie is wearing her fur coat. The bartender is sweeping up

the place.

He polishes off his drink, walks out unsteadily. The

bartender approaches the dancers.

Bud and Margie ignore him, continue dancing -- or rather

swaying limply cheek-to-cheek. The bartender crosses to the

juke box, pulls the plug out. The music stops, but not Bud

and Margie -- they continue dancing.

He goes to the front of the bar, starts to extinguish the

lights. Margie picks up her handbag from the bar, and Bud

downs the remains of his drink.

He leads her through the dark bar toward the entrance. The

bartender holds the door open for them as they go out.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - NIGHT

Bud and Margie come walking down the street. As they reach

the house, Bud starts up the steps, but Margie continues

along the sidewalk.

Margie, realizing her mistake, hurries back to join him.

They pass through the front door into the vestibule.

INT. STAIRCASE - BROWNSTONE HOUSE - NIGHT

Bud and Margie are mounting the stairs toward the apartment.

Bud has taken the key out of his pocket, opened the door to

his apartment.

He ushers her in.

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

It is exactly the way we left it. There is no sign of Fran,

except for the gloves she dropped on the coffee table

earlier. Bud switches on the light, shuts the door.

She takes the bowl of melted ice Bud has handed her,

disappears into the kitchen. As Bud starts to remove his

coat, he becomes aware of a scratching noise from the

phonograph. He crosses to it, sees that the needle is stuck

in the last groove of a long-playing record.

Bud lifts the record off, examines it curiously, then puts

it aside and substitutes the cha cha record. As the music

starts, he dances over to the coat-rack beside the door,

hangs up his chesterfield and bowler. He turns back into the

room, still dancing, suddenly spots Fran's gloves on the

coffee table. He picks up the gloves, looks around for some

convenient place to get rid of them. Moving over to the

bedroom door, he opens it, tosses the gloves toward the bed

inside. He shuts the door, starts to turn away, freezes in a

delayed reaction to something he saw inside. He quickly

opens the door again, looks.

Sprawled across the bed, on top of the bedspread, is Fran.

The light from the bathroom falls across her. She is fully

dressed, still in her coat, and apparently asleep.

Bud steps into the bedroom, closing the door behind him,

walks over to Fran.

She doesn't respond. But something falls out of her hand,

rolls across the bed. Bud picks it up, looks at it -- it is

his sleeping-pill vial, now uncapped and empty.

For a second he is paralyzed. Then he drops the vial, grabs

Fran, lifts her into a sitting position on the bed, shakes

her violently.

Fran's head droops to one side, like a rag doll's. Bud lets

go of her, rushes out.

In the living room, the phonograph is still cha cha-ing away.

Bud dashes to the phone, picks it up. Then it occurs to him

that he doesn't know whom to call and he hangs up. Out of

the kitchen comes Margie, with a bowlful of ice cubes.

Bud, not listening, runs past her to the hall door and out.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

Bud arrives at the door of the Dreyfuss apartment, starts

ringing the doorbell and pounding with his fist.

The door opens, and Dr. Dreyfuss stands there sleepily,

pulling on his beaten bathrobe.

He disappears from the doorway.

Bud turns and runs back into his apartment.

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

Margie has settled herself comfortably on the couch, and is

fixing the drinks. The cha cha music is still going. Bud

comes flying in, heads for the bedroom.

Bud stops in his tracks, suddenly aware of her.

Bud strides over to her purposefully, yanks her up to her

feet.

Dr. Dreyfuss comes hurrying in, carrying his medical bag. He

stops, bewildered by the sound of music and the sight of a

wide-awake girl in the apartment.

Dr. Dreyfuss proceeds into the bedroom.

Bud reaches under the coffee table, where she left her

shoes, retrieves them.

Bud shoves the shoes at her, takes a bill out of his wallet,

hands it to her.

Bud slams the door shut, starts toward the bedroom. Halfway

there, he becomes aware that the cha cha record is still on.

He detours to the phonograph, switches it off, continues

into the bedroom.

In the bedroom, the overhead light is on, and Dr. Dreyfuss

is working on the unconscious Fran. He has removed her coat,

and is shining a flashlight into her eyes, examining her

pupils. Bud approaches the bed worriedly.

Dr. Dreyfuss ignores him. Out of his medical bag, he takes a

stomach tube with a rubber funnel at the end. Then he starts

to lift Fran off the bed.

Between them, they get Fran into an upright position.

They half-carry, half-drag Fran's limp form toward the

bathroom.

Bud starts away as Dr. Dreyfuss takes Fran into the bathroom.

Bud loses no time getting into the kitchen. He fills an

aluminum kettle with water, strikes a match, lights the gas

burner, puts the kettle on. Then he takes a jar of instant

coffee and a chipped coffee mug out of the cupboard, shakes

an excessive portion of coffee into the mug, sticks a spoon

in it. He watches the kettle for a moment, mops his brow

with a handkerchief, then starts back toward the bedroom.

Bud crosses the bedroom to the half-open door of the

bathroom, looks in anxiously. From inside come the sounds of

a coughing spasm and running water. Bud turns away, undoes

his tie and collar, paces the bedroom floor. Something on

the night table attracts his attention -- resting against

the base of the lamp is a sealed envelope. Bud picks it

up -- on it, in Fran's handwriting, is one word, JEFF. He

turns the letter over in his hand, trying to decide what to

do with it.

Dr. Dreyfuss emerges from the bathroom, carrying a pale,

still unconscious Fran. Bud quickly conceals the suicide

note behind his back.

He lugs Fran into the living room. Bud stashes the letter in

his back pocket, picks up the medical bag, follows them.

In the living room, Dr. Dreyfuss lowers Fran into a chair.

Her chin falls to her chest. Dreyfuss takes the bag from

Bud, fishes out a hypodermic syringe, draws 2 c.c.'s from a

bottle of picrotoxin.

Bud does so. Dr. Dreyfuss hands the hypodermic to Bud,

searches for a spot for the injection.

He swabs the spot with alcohol, takes the hypodermic back

from Bud.

Bud just stands there, taking it. Fran stirs slightly, and

from her parched lips comes a low moan. Dr. Dreyfuss grabs

her by the hair, lifts her head up.

With his free hand, Dr. Dreyfuss slaps Fran viciously across

the face. Bud winces. Dreyfuss, still holding Fran by the

hair, takes a box of ammonia ampules out of his bag. He

crushes one of the ampules in his hand, passes it under her

nose. Fran tries to turn her head away. Dreyfuss slaps her

again, hard, crushes another ampule, repeats the process.

Bud is watching tensely. From the kitchen comes the whistle

of the boiling kettle, but Bud pays no attention.

Bud hurries into the kitchen. He turns off the gas, pours

the boiling water into the mug with the instant coffee,

stirs it. From off, come the sounds of more slapping and

some moaning. Bud carries the coffee out.

In the living room, Dr. Dreyfuss is working another ammonia

ampule under Fran's nose. Her eyes start fluttering. Dreyfuss

takes the coffee mug from Bud, forces it between Fran's

lips, pours coffee into her mouth. Fran resists

instinctively, half the coffee dribbling over her chin and

dress, but Dr. Dreyfuss keeps at it.

Bud complies promptly -- pulls up the shades, opens the

windows wide.

Bud picks up the mug, leaves.

Bud is coming back with the coffee.

Bud throws Dr. Dreyfuss a look, as if to say that Fran's

mind still wasn't functioning properly.

He forces her to swallow some coffee.

They lift her from the chair, and each draping one of her

arms over his shoulder, they start to walk her up and down

the room.

At first, Fran's feet just drag along the floor between them.

But gradually, as Dr. Dreyfuss' voice continues droning

hypnotically, she falls into the rhythm of it, repeating the

words after him and putting her weight on her feet.

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAWN

Through the bedroom window comes the first faint light of

dawn. Fran has been put to bed by an exhausted Dr. Dreyfuss.

She is in her slip, and Dreyfuss is just drawing the blanket

over her. Her eyes are closed, and she is moaning fitfully.

Watching from the doorway is Bud, in shirtsleeves now, weary

and disheveled.

They have now moved out into the living room, where the

overhead light and the Christmas tree bulbs are still on.

He goes into the kitchen. Dr. Dreyfuss takes a small notebook

with a fountain pen clipped to it out of his bag, sinks down

on the couch.

Bud appears from the kitchen, stirring the coffee powder in

a cup of hot water.

He uncaps the bottle of Scotch, pours a large slug into his

coffee.

He walks out, closing the door after him. Bud dejectedly

turns off the overhead light, kicks out the plug of the

Christmas tree lights, trudges into the bedroom.

Fran is fast asleep. Bud picks up her dress, gets a hanger,

drapes the dress over it, hangs it from the door. An early

morning chill has invaded the room, and Bud switches an the

electric blanket to keep Fran warm. Then he slumps into a

chair beside the bed, looks at Fran compassionately. The

light on the dial of the electric blanket glows in the

grayish room. Bud just sits there, watching Fran.

FADE IN:

INT. STAIRCASE - BROWNSTONE HOUSE - DAY

Mrs. Lieberman, followed by her dog, is climbing the stairs

to Bud's apartment, puffing asthmatically. She seems quite

angry as she arrives at the door and rings the bell. There

is no answer. She starts knocking impatiently.

Finally the door opens a crack, and Bud peers out. He looks

like a man who has slept in his clothes -- rumpled, bleary-

eyed, unshaven.

Bud watches her start down the stairs with the dog, withdraws

into the apartment.

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAY

Bud closes the door, crosses toward the bedroom, looks

inside. Fran is asleep under the electric blanket, breathing

evenly. He tries to shut the bedroom door, but it won't

close completely because Fran's dress, on a hanger. is

hooked over the top. He goes to the phone, picks it up,

dials the operator.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SHELDRAKE HOUSE - DAY

The decor is split-level Early American. There is a huge

Christmas tree and a jumble of presents, open gift boxes,

and discarded wrappings.

Sheldrake and his two sons, TOMMY and JEFF JR., are squatting

on the floor, testing a Cape Canaveral set the kids got for

Christmas. Sheldrake is in a brand new dressing gown, with a

manufacturer's tag still dangling from it, and the boys are

in pajamas and astronaut's helmets. As for the Cape Canaveral

set, it is a miniature layout of block-houses, launching

pads, and assorted space-missiles. Tommy has his finger on

the button controlling one of the rockets.

Tommy presses the button, and a spring sends the rocket

toward the ceiling. Just then, the phone in the entrance

hall starts ringing.

He hurries to the phone.

Sheldrake heads quickly for the phone.

In the entrance hall, Sheldrake picks up the phone, turns

his back toward the living room, speaks in a low voice.

BUD - ON PHONE

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

From the stairway beyond him comes:

Sheldrake turns from the phone. Halfway down the stairs is

Mrs. Sheldrake, in a quilted house-robe.

Out of the corner of his eye, he watches Mrs. Sheldrake come

down the stairs, pass behind him on the way to the living

room.

BUD - ON PHONE

He glances through the half-open door toward the sleeping

Fran.

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAY

As Bud continues talking on the phone, Fran, in the bedroom,

opens her eyes, looks around vaguely, trying to figure out

where she is. She sits up in bed, winces, holds her head in

her hands -- she has a fierce hangover.

In the bedroom Fran, becoming aware of Bud's voice, crawls

out of bed and holding on to the furniture, moves unsteadily

toward the living room door.

Behind him, Fran appears in the bedroom doorway, barefooted

and in her slip. She leans groggily against the door post,

trying to focus on Bud and to concentrate on what he's saying.

He hangs up the phone slowly.

Bud turns around, sees her standing there on rubbery legs.

He leads her back into the bedroom.

Her knees buckle. Bud catches her.

He tries to put her back to bed. Fran resists.

He crosses to the bathroom, takes a plaid robe off the hook

on the back of the door, hands it to Fran.

In the bathroom, he finds an unused toothbrush in a plastic

container. His eyes fall on his safety razor. With a glance

toward the bedroom, he unscrews the razor, removes the

blade, drops it in his shirt pocket. Then he empties the

blades from the dispenser, puts those in his pocket. Now he

notices a bottle of iodine on the medicine shelf, stashes

that in another pocket, just as Fran appears in the doorway

wearing the robe.

He crosses the bedroom, heading for the kitchen, stops.

He thinks for a moment, hurries toward the hall door.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - DAY

Bud comes out of his apartment, leaving the door half open,

heads for the Dreyfuss apartment. He rings the bell, peers

down over the banister to make sure Mrs. Lieberman isn't

snooping around. Mrs. Dreyfuss opens the door.

She slams the door in his face, Bud starts back to his

apartment.

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAY

Fran enters shakily from the bedroom, looks around for the

phone, locates it, picks it up. As she starts dialing, Bud

comes in from the hall.

She pulls away from him, starts to get into bed.

The doorbell rings.

He opens the hall door. Mrs. Dreyfuss brushes past him with

a tray full of food.

She sweeps into the bedroom, Bud tagging along.

She sets the tray down on Fran's lap.

She hands her the soup spoon, turns to Bud.

He starts out with a worried backward glance toward the two.

Fran is just sitting there, the spoon in her hand, not

touching the soup.

Mrs. Dreyfuss takes the spoon from her, starts to feed her.

She exits.

Bud tears open the envelope, takes out Sheldrake's hundred

dollars.

He puts the money in his pocket.

Bud relieves her of the tray, sets it down.

Bud opens the bureau drawer, takes out a deck of cards, a

score pad, and a pencil.

He pulls a chair up to the bed, starts to shuffle the cards.

She does, and they start playing.

He spreads his hand. Fran lays her cards down, and Bud adds

them up.

He gently takes the pad and pencil away from her.

Fran, her eyes drooping sleepily, picks up her cards, makes

a discard.

He removes the cards from her hand, starts to add them up.

He enters the score on the pad. As he starts to shuffle

again, he notices that Fran has slid down on the pillow, and

that her eyes are closed -- she is asleep.

Bud rises, adjusts the blanket over her. He stands there

looking at her for a moment, runs his hand over his chin.

Realizing he needs a shave, he crosses to the bathroom.

In the bathroom, Bud washes his face, squirts some shaving

cream into his hand, starts to apply it.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - DAY

A Volkswagen draws up to the curb in front of the house.

Kirkeby gets out on the street side, Sylvia squeezes herself

out through the other door. Kirkeby raises the front hood of

the Volkswagen, reaches into the luggage compartment, takes

out a cardboard bucket with a bottle of champagne on ice.

Together, he and Sylvia start up the steps of the house,

Sylvia already cha cha-ing in anticipation.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

In the bathroom, Bud has just finished lathering his face

when the doorbell rings. He starts into the bedroom.

He glances at the sleeping Fran, picks up the tray, carries

it into the living room, pulling the bedroom door closed

behind him. But it doesn't shut completely, because of

Fran's dress hooked over the top.

Bud crosses to the hall door, opens it. Outside are Kirkeby,

with the champagne bucket, and Sylvia.

He pushes his way into the apartment past Bud.

He heads for the coffee table, sets the champagne down. Bud

shoots a quick glance toward the bedroom door, gets rid of

the tray.

As Bud spins him around, Kirkeby notices the dress on the

bedroom door.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - DAY

Outside the door of Bud's apartment, Sylvia is cha cha-ing

impatiently. Up the stairs comes Dr. Dreyfuss, in his

overcoat and carrying his medical bag.

She continues cha-cha-ing. Dr. Dreyfuss has unlocked the

door to his apartment, and is watching Sylvia, appalled by

the fact that Baxter seems to be at it again. He starts

inside.

He shuts the door behind him.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Kirkeby looks toward the door in response to Sylvia's

knocking.

He forces Kirkeby toward the hall door. Kirkeby, glancing

past him through the partly-open door of the bedroom,

catches sight of Fran asleep in bed.

INT. SECOND FLOOR LANDING - DAY

Kirkeby comes backing out the door of Bud's apartment, minus

the champagne bucket.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Bud comes into the bedroom. As he heads for the bathroom,

Fran stirs slightly, opens her eyes.

She turns off the electric blanket as Bud crosses to the

window, pushes it up. Then a thought strikes him, and he

looks at Fran suspiciously.

Fran closes her eyes. Bud returns to the bathroom, picks up

his razor, starts to shave. But something seems to be wrong

with the razor -- and unscrewing it, he realizes that there

is no blade. Sheepishly, he takes out the blade he hid in

his shirt pocket, inserts it in his razor, screws it shut.

Then he resumes shaving.

FADE IN:

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

It is the morning after Christmas, and Miss Olsen and the

other girls are just settling down to work. Sheldrake, in

hat and coat, approaches from the elevators, comes through

the glass doors.

He strides into the inner office. Miss Olsen picks up her

stenographic pad, follows him in.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheldrake is removing his hat and coat as Miss Olsen comes

in, shuts the door behind her.

She turns and walks out of the office, shutting the door.

Sheldrake looks after her for a moment, then goes to his

desk, picks up the phone, dials the operator.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

Miss Olsen has put on her coat, and is going through her

desk drawers, cleaning out her personal belongings -- nail

polish, emery boards, an extra pair of glasses, etc. As she

stows them away in her handbag, one of the buttons on the

telephone lights up. Miss Olsen hesitates for a second, then

with a quick look around, she pushes the button down,

carefully picks up the receiver, listens in.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheldrake is dialing the last two digits of a telephone

number. After a moment, someone answers.

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAY

Bud, wearing slacks, a shirt open at the neck, and a cardigan

sweater, is at the phone. A pillow and a blanket on the

living room couch indicate where he spent the night.

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

BUD - ON PHONE

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Fran now appears in the bedroom, wearing the plaid robe, and

toweling her damp hair.

He puts the receiver down, crosses toward the bedroom door.

Fran nods, watches him go out. Then she glances toward the

phone, which is off the hook. Reluctantly she advances

toward it, picks it up.

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM

Miss Olsen, glued to the phone, is listening intently.

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

FRAN - ON PHONE

SHELDRAKE - ON PHONE

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

Miss Olsen hangs up the phone, sits there for a moment,

weighing what she has overheard. Then she makes a decision,

picks up the phone again, dials a number. As she waits for

an answer, she glances toward Sheldrake's office.

She looks up as the door to the inner office opens and

Sheldrake comes out. He stops when he sees that Miss Olsen

is still there.

She opens her handbag, takes out a coin, puts it down on the

desk.

She marches out through the glass doors toward the elevators

as Sheldrake stands there, watching her.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - DAY

Bud comes down the street, carrying a large brown paper bag

overflowing with groceries. He goes up the steps of the

house and through the front door.

INT. STAIRCASE AND SECOND FLOOR LANDING - DAY

As Bud starts up the stairs, with the groceries, Mrs.

Lieberman comes hurrying down toward him.

He races up the stairs two at a time, fumbling frantically

for his key. Reaching the door of his apartment, he unlocks

it, dashes in.

INT. THE APARTMENT - DAY

Bud comes bursting through the door. The living room is

empty, and the bedclothes have been removed from the couch.

He dumps the bag of groceries on a table, rushes into the

kitchen. The burner has been turned on under the kettle, but

there is no flame, and gas is hissing from the vents. Bud

snaps it off, starts out again.

Meanwhile Fran has appeared from the bathroom, and is

approaching the bedroom door. She is still in her robe, and

is holding a double sock-stretcher with one of Bud's socks

on it. Bud, rounding the corner from the kitchen at full

speed, collides with Fran in the bedroom doorway. He grabs

her arms with obvious relief.

Bud starts to take off his hat and coat, notices the sock-

stretcher in her hand.

He carries the bag of groceries into the kitchen, Fran

trailing after him. During the following, he removes the

contents of the bag -- bread, eggs, bacon, spaghetti, ground

round, frankfurters, and assorted canned goods -- sets them

out on the drainboard.

She produces the racquet from behind the stove.

She starts into the living room. Bud follows her.

She sits on the arm of a chair.

Bud starts happily into the kitchen.

INT. LOBBY INSURANCE BUILDING - DAY

It is mid-afternoon, and traffic is light. A Yellow Cab has

pulled up in front of the entrance, and the driver, a

stockily-built young man in a leather jacket and cap, gets

out and comes through the revolving doors into the lobby.

His name is KARL MATUSCHKA, and he is Fran's brother-in-law.

As he cases the elevators, the starter comes up to him.

He steps into an elevator, the doors of which are just

closing.

INT. DOBISCH'S OFFICE - DAY

Dobisch is sitting behind his desk, lighting a cigar.

Kirkeby, who has dropped in for a little visit, is perched

on the edge of the desk.

The glass door opens and Matuschka comes in.

INT. THE APARTMENT - EVENING

Buddy-boy is bending over a hot stove, preparing an Italian

dinner. He takes a saucepan of spaghetti off the fire, and

picking up the tennis racquet with the other hand, pours the

spaghetti on top of the racquet strings. Then he turns on

the faucet, runs water over the spaghetti. With the combined

technique of Brillat-Savarin and Pancho Gonzales, he gently

agitates the racquet, letting the water drain off the

spaghetti. As he works, he hums a theme from Tschaikowsky's

Capriccio Italien.

Fran walks in, still in her robe.

As Fran starts into the living room, Bud begins to ladle

meat sauce onto the spaghetti, humming operatically.

In the living room, the small table has been set for two,

and prominent on it is the champagne bottle that Mr. Kirkeby

left behind, still in its cardboard bucket, but freshly iced.

As Fran lights the candles, she notices the napkins on the

table, peels a price-tag off the corner of one of them.

He carries the platter of spaghetti and meat sauce in from

the kitchen, sets it on the table, sprinkles some cheese on

it. Then he crosses to the coffee table, where a full

martini pitcher stands in readiness, fills a couple of

glasses. Fran seats herself at the table.

They drink.

The door bell rings. Carrying his martini glass, Bud crosses

to the door, starts to open it.

By now the door is open, and Bud is speaking to Fran over

his shoulder. He turns, finds himself face to face with Karl

Matuschka, who is standing grimly in the doorway.

Matuschka shoves him roughly aside, strides past him toward

Fran, who has risen to her feet.

She exits into the bedroom, removing her dress from the

door, and closing it. Matuschka leans against the wall

beside the hall door, eyeing Bud truculently. Bud raises a

finger to remonstrate with him -- then breaks into a nervous,

ingratiating smile.

He gestures with the martini glass, spilling the contents

over his shirtfront. Through the partly open hall door, Dr.

Dreyfuss sticks his head in.

He steps into the apartment, passing Matuschka without

seeing him.

Dr. Dreyfuss looks at Bud.

Behind them, the bedroom door has opened, and Fran comes

out, wearing her coat over her dress.

Matuschka lashes out with a left to Bud's jaw, and while he

is off balance, catches him with a right to the eye. Bud

falls back against the Christmas tree, which topples with a

crash. Fran pulls Matuschka away from him.

She kneels beside Bud.

She kisses him on the cheek, rises, starts toward the door.

She follows Matuschka out. Bud looks after her, starry-eyed.

He is on Cloud Nine.

FADE IN:

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

Bud is coming from the elevators toward his office. He is

wearing his chesterfield, bowler, and a pair of dark glasses.

He opens the office door, starts in.

INT. BUD'S OFFICE - DAY

Bud crosses directly to the phone, removes his glasses

revealing a swollen left eye. He dials a number.

He hangs up, takes off his hat and coat, deposits them on

the clothes- tree. Then he paces around the office,

rehearsing a speech out loud.

He hangs up, crosses to the door, opens it.

Putting on his dark glasses, he heads for the elevators,

still talking to himself.

INT. NINETEENTH FLOOR - DAY

Kirkeby and Dobisch are just stepping out of an elevator

when Bud approaches. They grin smugly when they see that he

is wearing dark glasses.

Bud pays no attention, walks right past them into the

elevator, still muttering to himself. The doors close.

INT. TWENTY-SEVENTH FLOOR FOYER - DAY

The elevator doors open.

Bud steps out. As he heads for Sheldrake's office, he

continues rehearsing his speech.

He opens the door to Sheldrake's anteroom.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheldrake is pacing in front of his desk. A couple of

suitcases are standing in a corner of the room. The intercom

buzzes, and Sheldrake presses the lever down.

A beat, then the door opens, and Bud marches in determinedly.

Bud advances slowly toward the door.

INT. ADJOINING OFFICE - DAY

It is a slightly smaller and less lavish edition of Sheldrake

s office. Sheldrake ushers Bud through the door, points to

the chair behind the desk.

Bud obeys like an automaton, lowers himself into the chair.

He removes his dark glasses reflectively.

With a shrug, he exits into his own office, closing the door

behind him. Bud sits there, unconsciously bending the

glasses in his hand until they suddenly snap in two. Bud

glances down at the two broken halves, as though surprised

by his own violence, tosses them on the desk.

INT. LOBBY INSURANCE BUILDING - EVENING

We are close on the building directory. Listed under

PERSONNEL is J.D. SHELDRAKE, Director, and just below that a man's

hand is inserting the name C.C. BAXTER in the slot marked Asst.

Director. The lettering is complete except for the final R.

Camera pulls back to reveal the sign painter we saw earlier,

working on the directory. Watching him is Bud. He is wearing

his chesterfield and bowler, and still has a slight welt

under his left eye. It is after six o'clock, and there is

very little activity in the lobby.

Fran, wearing her coat over street clothes, approaches from

the direction of the elevators, stops when she sees Bud.

Bud turns to her in surprise, removes his bowler.

There is a moment of constraint between them.

He points off toward the newsstand. Standing there is a

tall, attractive brunette, obviously waiting for someone.

Fran looks off in the indicated direction.

Fran walks toward the revolving doors. Bud watches her for a

moment, then strides briskly across the lobby toward the

newsstand. He goes right past the waiting brunette, stops in

front of a rack of pocket books, examines the merchandise. A

man now comes out of a phone booth, joins the waiting

brunette, and they go off together. Bud picks out a couple

of paperbacks, pays the clerk behind the counter. Stuffing a

book into each coat pocket, he moves slowly toward the

revolving doors.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S OFFICE - DAY

Sheldrake is swiveled around sideways behind his desk, with

a bootblack kneeling in front of him, shining his shoes.

Reaching for the intercom, Sheldrake presses down one of the

levers.

The bootblack finishes the second shoe with a flourish,

gathers up his equipment. Sheldrake tosses him a half dollar.

He exits into the anteroom as the door of the adjoining

office opens and Bud comes in, carrying several charts.

There is no trace left of his black eye.

Without taking his eyes off Sheldrake, Bud reaches into his

pocket, fishes out a key, drops it on the desk.

He turns abruptly, starts back into his own office.

INT. BUD'S NEW OFFICE - DAY

Bud comes in, shutting the door behind him, stands rooted to

the spot for a moment. Then he takes some pencils out of his

breast pocket and drops them into a container on the desk,

closes his account book, slams a couple of open file drawers

shut.

As he crosses to the clothes closet, the connecting door

opens and Sheldrake comes in, key in hand.

He has taken his chesterfield and bowler out of the closet,

and is putting the coat on.

He opens the door to the anteroom, starts out.

INT. SHELDRAKE'S ANTEROOM - DAY

Bud comes out of his office, carrying his bowler, strides

past the secretaries and through the glass doors to the

foyer. An elevator is just unloading, and beside it a

handyman is cleaning out one of the cigarette receptacles.

Bud crosses to the elevator, and as he passes the handyman,

he jams his bowler on the man's head -- surrendering his

crown, so to speak. The elevator doors close. The handyman

straightens up, looks around in bewilderment.

INT. THE APARTMENT - NIGHT

Bud is in the process of packing. In the middle of the

living room are several large cardboard cartons filled with

his possessions. The art posters are off the walls, the

bric-a-brac has been removed from the shelves, and Bud is

stowing away the last of his books and records. He crosses

to the fireplace, opens one of the drawers in the cabinet

above it, takes out a forty-five automatic. He holds the gun

in the palm of his hand, studies it appraisingly.

The doorbell rings. Bud snaps out of his reverie, drops the

gun into one of the cartons, goes to the door and opens it.

Standing outside is Dr. Dreyfuss, with a plastic ice bucket

in his hand.

He goes into the kitchen, opens the refrigerator, starts to

pry out the ice-cube trays.

He dumps the ice-cubes, still in their trays, into the

bucket Dr. Dreyfuss is holding. Then he pulls Kirkeby's

unopened bottle of champagne out of the refrigerator.

Bud closes the door, returns to the kitchen, brings out a

box of glassware and the tennis racquet. As he starts to

deposit the racquet in a carton, he notices a strand of

spaghetti clinging to the strings. He removes it gently,

stands there twirling the limp spaghetti absently around his

finger.

INT. CHINESE RESTAURANT - NIGHT

It is five minutes before midnight, New Year's Eve. Sitting

alone in the last booth is Fran, a paper hat on her head, a

pensive look on her face. There are two champagne glasses on

the table, and the usual noisemakers, but the chair opposite

her is empty. Above the general hubbub, the Chinese pianist

can be heard playing. After a moment, Fran glances off.

Threading his way through the merrymakers crowding the bar

and overflowing from the booths is Sheldrake. He is in

dinner clothes, topped by a paper hat. Reaching the last

booth, he drops into the chair facing Fran.

The piano player is consulting the watch on his upraised

left arm. He drops the arm in a signal, and the lights go

out. At the same time, he strikes up AULD LANG SYNE.

All over the dimly lit room, couples get to their feet,

embracing and joining in the song.

In the last booth, Sheldrake leans across the table, kisses

Fran.

Fran's expression is preoccupied. Sheldrake faces in the

direction of the pianist, and holding his glass aloft, sings

along with the others.

As AULD LANG SYNE comes to an end, the place explodes

noisily -- there is a din of horns, ratchets, and shouted

greetings. The lights come up again.

In the last booth, Sheldrake turns back toward Fran -- but

she is no longer there. Her paper hat lies abandoned on her

vacated chair.

He rises, cranes his neck, trying to spot her in the crowd.

EXT. BROWNSTONE HOUSE - NIGHT

Fran, a coat thrown over the dress she was wearing at the

Rickshaw, comes down the street almost at a run. There is a

happy, expectant look on her face. She hurries up the steps

of the house and through the front door.

INT. STAIRCASE AND SECOND FLOOR LANDING - NIGHT

Fran mounts the stairs eagerly. As she reaches the landing

and heads for Bud's apartment, there is a loud, sharp report

from inside.

Fran freezes momentarily, then rushes to the door.

The door opens and there stands Bud, the bottle of champagne

he has just uncorked still foaming over in his hand. He

stares at Fran unbelievingly.

INT. THE APARTMENT - NIGHT

Fran comes in and Bud shuts the door. The room is the same

as we left it, except for an empty champagne glass standing

on the coffee table.

He goes to one of the cartons, takes out a champagne glass

wrapped in newspaper, starts to unwrap it.

Fran takes the deck of cards and the gin rummy score pad out

of the carton, settles herself on the couch, starts to

shuffle the cards expertly.

Bud sinks down happily on the couch, and Fran holds out the

deck to him.

Bud cuts a card, but doesn't look at it.

She hands the deck to Bud.

Bud begins to deal, never taking his eyes off her. Fran

removes her coat, starts picking up her cards and arranging

them. Bud, a look of pure joy on his face, deals -- and

deals -- and keeps dealing.

And that's about it. Story-wise.

THE END

