William turns his attention to Henry.

Henry delivers another pizza. Pockets the money as he walks

back to his car, whistling. Checks his delivery list. Stares

at the next address in sudden disbelief.

Henry stands in the doorway, glumly clutching the PIZZA BOX.

Hesitates. Finally rings doorbell. Pause. Followed by LOUD

LAUGHTER. Door swings open. Richard stands there, wearing

only his jeans. His hair is a mess.

Richard finally notices the camera.

Richard pulls a crumpled twenty from his jean pocket. He

hands it to Henry. Then reconsiders, calling inside.

No response.

Richard gives a last glance to the camera. He's got better

things to do. Off he goes.

Short beat. Hannah comes to the door wearing Richard's shirt

and little else, carrying a single dollar bill.

Her words freeze up as she recognizes Henry. Henry and Hannah

lock eyes for a long beat. Poor kid. This is the moment.

Enough.

She hesitates.   Not for long.

Score one for Hannah.

Henry has no comeback. Hannah stares him down. The dollar

bill drops from her hand on to the ground. She retreats

back inside the house, firmly closing the front door, leaving

Henry alone.

Only then do we notice the number of the house: 4441.

We've never seen Henry like this. He rips down all his Richard

Benedict photos from the wall. Collects all his Benedict

books. Stuffs everything in a CARDBOARD BOX. Next he turns

his attention to all the rejection letters on the wall. Lot

of rejection. Gives them a long look. Then he snaps up the

photo of Hannah from near his computer. He takes the photo

and tacks it dead center in the middle of all his rejection

letters.

Henry stares at the photo, oblivious to the camera, consumed

by Hannah's radiant smile. His latest, and most painful,

rejection. It's over.

Henry understands what must be done. He goes over to his

desk. Sits down at his laptop. One last glance over at

Hannah's photo as he turns the computer on.

He contemplates for a second. Then begins typing.

Sigrid's Wall of America has been taken down. A few nail

holes and tape marks are all that remain--except for the

single PHOTO of John still hanging in the center.

Back to the two lawn chairs--with one prime difference.

Sigrid's chair is empty. John sits by himself. This is a

softer, more reflective, John talking to the camera.

A side glance to the empty chair.

Good acting, John. He looks back to the empty chair. Can't

avoid reaching over and giving the arm rest a little love

tap.

John packs COPIES OF HIS BOOK ever-so-carefully into an old

standard issue military DUFFEL BAG.

John gazes over at his photo on the wall. Salutes himself.

Meeting of the writing group. Not yet started. John, Alan,

and Hannah sit around the table. No refreshments being

served. No small talk. Everyone is quiet.

Hannah looks fantastic. More makeup. Nicer clothes. Fidgets

in her chair. Seems anxious. Stares at her new KINDLE.

FRONT DOOR opens and closes. FOOTSTEPS approaching. It's

Henry. Looks determined. Man on a mission. Carries a satchel.

He stands up. Calmly puts his typed pages back in his

satchel. Leaves Alan's recorder on the table, walks away

without looking back.

Don't waste your breath. He's gone.

Hannah's book release party. Great turnout. Her professional

PHOTO adorns a POSTER announcing the publication of Sleeping

on the Moon. Boy, Hannah looks terrific in that photo.

Richard hovers around the makeshift bar, drink in hand.

Maureen, looking radiant, accepts the congratulations of

well-wishers. TABLE prominently centered has piles of Hannah's

novel, waiting to be signed.

Hannah talks to the camera, looking especially radiant. This

is her day and she is more than ready for her close-up.

Totally different in wardrobe and appearance.

Hannah waves to Richard. He waves back. Hannah glances around

the room, as if looking for someone in particular.

She is asked a question.

Hannah sits behind the table, signing books. Maureen stands

behind her helping to orchestrate the line of people.

Hannah acts very gracious. Signing a book, smiling and

chatting up the guests. She seems at ease. Everything is

going her way. She looks past the line. Her eyes light up

and she jumps to her feet.

Then -- BAM, Henry, not looking where he's going, slams into

Richard accidentally, spilling Richard's drink all over the

author. Horrified looks all around.

Outside the bookstore, Henry stands on the sidewalk, talking

to the camera as he clutches Hannah's book.

Henry opens up his copy of Hannah's novel. He turns quiet,

obviously moved. He holds the book up for the camera to

see.

Right beneath the printed dedication For Henry Obert, Hannah

has written, For Henry, My Forever Friend xoxoxo Hannah.

Henry studies the book for a second. Snaps it shut.

Literary agent David Keller being interviewed for the camera

in his office. Stacks of MANUSCRIPTS on his desk. David

pulls one out.

David thumbs through the manuscript.

Henry taking down the rejection letters from his walls and

packing them in a cardboard BOX.

Henry puts the last of the rejection letters away. Finally,

he picks up a FRAMED PHOTO. INSERT shows the six members of

the writing group from happier times--the photo snapped in

the restaurant. Full of hope and promise.

Henry lingers on the photo before packing it away, as well.

Mostly empty. Henry sits at a booth, alone, a new copy of

Gatsby in his hands. He talks to the camera. CUP OF COFFEE

in front of him.

Henry bites his tongue.   Eudora nods towards the camera.

Henry smiles. The two continue their idle chatter.

CARD: EPILOGUE

Caption reads: PHOENIX, ARIZONA.

John's trailer. COSTUMED CHILDREN knock on the door while

holding their trick or treat bags.

John opens the front door.

John responds by dropping a BOOK in the first bag.

The children are dumbfounded. John moves on to the next child.

William is back at the counter, looking as scruffy as ever.

Off to the side stands a GEEKY KID, gripping a FLIP PHONE

aimed directly at William. William talks to our camera.

He winks.   The Kid doesn't move.

He nods towards his companion.

A question is asked.

A waitress's HAND reaches in and refills William's coffee

cup. He likes what he sees.

He looks over to Geeky Kid.

William will never change.

TWO POSTERS ON EASEL in the hallway. First poster announcing:

SATURDAY'S ADULT EDUCATION CLASSES.

PUPPET MAKING meets in Room 22, and QUILTING is in Room 24.

WRITING 20/20 is in Room 26.

And DOG OBEDIENCE is out in the courtyard, but we already

know that--the loud sound of BARKING DOGS and PEOPLE YELLING

"SIT" is heard in the background.

Second poster is a new version of QUIET, PLEASE--WRITERS AT

WORK.

STUDENTS scattered around the classroom. All adult. Ethnic

and demographic mix. Listening attentively. Taking notes.

The DOGS continue barking outside.

Alan stands in front of the class. Beaming. Excited, He CLAPS

his hands once.

Students think for a second. Start scribbling a name.

Students hand their papers forward. Alan starts collecting

them.

He looks at the first piece of paper.

That's not it.   Alan tries again.

Laughter and guffaws from the students.    Alan looks puzzled.

The students continue to laugh. Poor Alan.

Catch the FOR SALE sign posted on the front lawn.

Colette engages in intense meditation on her bench. The garden

around her is now dead.

INSERT BOOK. Title in large letters: Getting from Xiro to

One by Dr. Xiroman in equally large letters. At the bottom

of the book, in very tiny letters, reads With Colette Mooney.

INSERT PHOTO of smiling Anderson Cooper.

INSERT PHOTO of Dr. Xiroman and Lois being married in Vegas

by ELVIS.

Colette reaches for her reading glasses and shares the ad

copy with us, reading aloud:

Looking quite pleased with herself, Colette lets the copy

fall away.

Her iPhone starts playing music, signaling a phone call.

Colette smiles in knowing satisfaction--publication is just

a touch away

The MOVIE CREW, on location, scurries about, trying to line

up their next shot.

Hannah, looking good, sits in a chair, a BOOK on her lap.

She is talking to the camera. CREW in the background.

She crinkles her nose in obvious disappointment.

Henry looks more confident. More poised. Better clothes.

The frog has become the prince.

He glances back at the building.

He looks at his watch.

SHOPPERS coming in and out of the store. POSTER in front

window announces book signing for Henry Obert, author of

Slice of LA.

Right next to BANNER announcing GOING OUT OF BUSINESS. And

next to the banner--a YOUNG MAN leans up against the wall,

waiting, passing time reading his KINDLE.

We jump to the woman clutching FOUR COPIES of Henry's novel.

Wait a minute--we recognize those trendy glasses. It's Eudora,

a rather pregnant Eudora.

Eudora is having way too much fun.

Henry sits at the table in the bookstore, graciously and

happily signing copies of his book for the SHORT LINE OF

PEOPLE waiting.

This is his moment, the one that brought him all the way

from Illinois. He has arrived. As a person. As a writer.

Henry looks up. Eudora is nestled comfortably in a nearby

leather chair, reading away. She looks up.

They make eye contact. Her smile is all the encouragement

Henry needs. All that he will ever need.

He reaches for the next book to sign.

