FADE IN:

EXT. ST. ANN'S SCHOOL - DAY

CAMERA PANS a group of freshly-scrubbed, innocent children,

obediently standing in line, like recruits for the Holy

Crusade. PULL BACK to REVEAL they are wearing the gray

blazers, striped ties and navy slacks of St. Luke's School.

They are waiting patiently at the curbside in front of the

statue of the school's sainted namesake. One of the fifth

grade BOYS pokes the KID next to him with his elbow. The

other Kid is about to retaliate when SISTER MARY FRANCIS, a

stern-faced nun, appears behind them, grabbing them both

firmly by the shoulders.

Sister Mary Francis checks her watch. She scowls and looks

out past the parking lot gate.

Suddenly we HEAR the SOUND of an ENGINE roaring at full

throttle. There is a SCREECHING of BRAKES, followed by the

loud GRINDING of GEARS. It sounds like the Indy 500 is taking

place around the corner.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Zooming through the parking lot gates is a large yellow school

bus. It practically takes the last turn on just two wheels.

The bus driver quickly slams on the brakes, leaving ten feet

of rubber behind him as the bus comes to an ear-splitting

halt right in front of them. The front door immediately swings

open and RICK STAHL, the driver, hops out. Rick is the life

of the party, even when there isn't any party going on.

While chronologically older than the St. Luke students, the

only thing that sets him apart from them is that he has a

driver's license. Rick figures he'll live up to his

capabilities and get serious in his next life... This

incarnation's strictly for laughs. Sister Mary Francis steps

up to him.

He starts sobbing softly into his hands.

The kids obediently file past Rick, who makes like he is

drying his tears with his handkerchief.

He hops on the bus, closes the door and gently backs the bus

out of the parking lot.

INT. BUS - DAY

As soon as the bus is out of sight of the school, all hell

breaks loose. The formally well-mannered children are acting

like normal kids... hitting each other over the heads with

books, running up and down the aisles, screaming at the top

of their lungs.

ANGLE - RICK

He removes the St. Christopher statue from the dashboard,

revealing a hulaing Hawaiian girl in a grass skirt. He watches

the madness behind him in his rearview mirror, picks up the

P.A. microphone and rationally attempts to restore order.

The kids pay no attention to him.

EXT. THE BUS

Rick's bus pulls up to a light and another school bus filled

with kids (from a public school) pulls up alongside of it.

The other DRIVER gives Rick a competitive smirk and guns his

engine. Rick counters by gunning his.

INT. THE BUS

All the kids start screaming "Race... race." "Wipe 'em out."

"Go for it." Etc. Some of the kids even start taking out

money and start betting one another on the race's outcome.

ANGLE - RICK

as he readies for action.

EXT. THE BUSES

The light turns green and they're off. Or as off as two lunky

school buses filled with kids can be.

WIDE SHOT - ANOTHER STREET

The two buses come zooming down the street.

INT. RICK'S BUS

The kids are screaming at Rick to go faster. One of the little

boys looks nauseous as he clutches the seat in front of him.

EXT. THE STREET - LOW ANGLE

The buses squeeze down a narrow street, neck and neck with

one another.

INT. THE BUS

The kids are all yelling words of encouragement to Rick, who

is hunched over in his seat, driving with the determination

of Andy Granitelli. The nauseous kid is now turning a pale

shade of green. He moves to an open window, straining to

control the inevitable.

EXT. THE BUSES

They race down a steep hill.

INT. THE BUS

The nauseous kid can't hold it any longer.

EXT. THE OTHER BUS

Something hits with a splat against the windshield that

resembles Campbell's Chunky Vegetable Soup.

INT. THE OTHER BUS

The other Driver turns on the windshield. It only makes it

worse.

EXT. THE STREET

Rick's bus pulls out in front, accompanied by the cheering

of his passengers. Suddenly a stop light looms ahead. Rick

puts on his brakes. Both buses stop just in time.

INT. RICK'S BUS

Rick's kids are all piled in a clump right behind him in the

front of the bus. Although disheveled, the kids still manage

a victorious cheer.

PHOTOGRAPHER'S POV

We're LOOKING THROUGH the camera lens. We SEE a cute one-

year-old baby boy. He's sitting on a cuddly blanket. We HEAR

the VOICE of Jay O'Neill. He is a baby photographer at Sears.

He takes the picture and we SEE the camera flash.

O'NEILL

We see he has his camera and backdrop set up in the camera

department behind a velour curtain which blacks out the rest

of the store. He's conservatively dressed in a suit, vest

and tie. He looks like he could be a Young Republican. But

under those Sears clothes is a man a little off center. Rick's

best friend. Need we say more? He takes the film out of the

camera. The matronly mother is in the process of gathering

up her baby.

She smiles and exits.

A beautiful -- and we're talking gorgeous -- WOMAN enters.

Her clothes hug every curve of her body. She has her baby in

her arms. O'Neill immediately wants her, and now. His eyes

settle onto her full breasts. These he likes.

She gets this innuendo and loves it.

He takes the baby. He has a hard time taking his eyes off

her breasts. He places the baby on the blanket.

O'NEILL'S POV THROUGH CAMERA

We SEE the baby sitting on the blanket.

She coyly leans INTO FRAME.

She is totally blocking her baby out of the picture.

O'NEILL

He gets out from behind the camera.

She starts to unbutton her blouse. O'Neill looks into his

camera.

O'NEILL'S POV THROUGH LENS

We SEE the Woman finish her last button.

As she complies, her breasts all but spill out of her dress.

O'NEILL

He runs from behind the camera and poses with the woman.

THROUGH CAMERA LENS

We SEE a QUICK SERIES of camera flashes. Each pose finds him

near her breasts. He has them on his head. He's cheek to

breast. Etc.

RICK

enters and witnesses the photo session. He immediately jumps

into the shots.

THROUGH CAMERA LENS

Rick joins the craziness. After several beats, the Woman

gets bored and EXITS the FRAME.

THE WOMAN

As Rick and O'Neill continue mugging like two 12-year-olds

in a photo booth, the Woman takes her child and exits. A few

beats pass and the guys notice they're alone.

O'Neill crosses to his camera and takes out the film.

RICK

He picks up some photographs of today's work.

INSERT - PHOTOS

Each one has a different mother in several seductive poses.

Their babies are barely visible, if at all.

EXT. CHULO'S AUTO SHOP - DAY

Rick's school bus pulls into the yard of the auto shop.

Several Chicanos are working on various cars. Rick and O'Neill

hop out.

ANGLE - LATE-MODEL CAR

We SEE a very large pair of shoes sticking out from under

the chassis. Slowly, a large, bear-like body rolls out and

we catch our first glimpse of CHULO. A happy-go-lucky mechanic

of Mexican ancestry.

A SMALL MECHANIC with an eye patch gets into a car behind

them as we DOLLY WITH the guys THROUGH the lot.

Another MECHANIC sticks his face out of another car and shakes

his head. Just then Raul, the eye-patched worker, whizzes by

behind the guys, driving the car in a zig-zag pattern right

into traffic.

Behind them we can SEE Roberto fiddling with the lighter.

Suddenly flames leap out of the car, blowing Roberto ten

feet into the air.

ANGLE

The guys all start to pile into the bus. Nearby another

employee is washing down the garage with a hose.

Chulo turns to another mechanic, who has his head under the

hood of a car.

Manuel waves at Chulo, who turns, hops on the bus. Rick starts

it up and starts to drive away. Just as the bus CLEARS FRAME,

we SEE Manuel connect two wires together at the same moment

the guy with the hose washes down the area around his feet.

Manuel lights up like a Christmas tree, screaming in pain.

There is a beat, and then Robert falls INTO FRAME, still

holding the cigarette lighter, and the car Raul is driving

enters the lot and smashes into the side of the garage.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

A sign on an office door says "CONCERT TICKET AGENCY." From

inside we HEAR someone TALKING loudly on the phone. Chulo,

Rick and O'Neill open the door and go inside. On the walls

in the cramped office there are rock 'n' roll concert posters

advertising rock bands like Men At Work, The Clash and Barry

Manilow. Behind a cluttered desk we FIND a little man with a

thin mustache and horn-rimmed glasses. This is GARY MELNITZ,

wheeler-dealer, entrepreneur and coward. Gary yells a lot,

which is a definite overcompensation for his size and

inability to deal with the opposite sex.

The PHONE RINGS.

He gets up and they start for the door. Just then the PHONE

RINGS. Gary picks it up.

He hangs up the phone and they start for the door again.

The guys all laugh and exit.

INT. HARBORSIDE INN - DAY

It's a quiet restaurant near a Marina. A lot of business-

people in suits are eating.

TWO MALE CUSTOMERS

CUSTOMER ONE calls for a waiter.

The WAITER approaches them from OUT OF FRAME.

ANOTHER ANGLE

We see their waiter, RYKO, a blond, tanned, muscular beach

bum who has definitely stayed out in the sun too long.

He holds up a blackboard with the day's menu.

One of the customers shrugs and hands him a pen.

Ryko's customers look totally disgusted as Ryko's short

attention span is interrupted by something he sees O.S.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rick and the guys appear in the bar.

They all disappear into the bar area.

The customers are pleased to get rid of Ryko. SKIP enters.

He's a clone of Ryko.

The customers give each other a "Here we go again" look

ANGLE - THE GUYS

They're laughing uproariously and carrying on as Ryko comes

over and sits down.

The guys acknowledge him.

ANGLE - RICK

Chulo gets up and gives Rick a big bear hug... The other

guys shake his hand.

The guys all raise their glasses.

As they down their drinks, we:

EXT. THE JEAN MACHINE - DAY

We SEE a couple of very contemporary looking 15-year-olds

going into a very "now" clothing store -- like Fred Segal's...

When the door opens, loud ROCK 'N ROLL MUSIC blasts out.

INT. THE JEAN MACHINE - DAY

Inside the store we see all the sales clerks grooving

narcissistically to the music like they're at a disco. The

cashier, PHOEBE, has devoted her life to following the current

trends and fads no matter how inane they may be. Today she's

in a reggae mode, her hair wound into tight dreadlocks, as

she sways lost in the ozone to the music. A CUSTOMER

approaches her with a purchase.

She floats off again...

One of the young MALE CUSTOMERS approaches an attractive

salesgirl. This is DEBBIE THOMERSON, Rick's intended. She

seems to be the only sane employee in the place because she's

actually working, putting clothes on the racks. This

impression of sanity fits her, as she is level-headed, and

has a clear sense of herself. She can also take a joke, thus

her engagement to Rick.

She leads the Customer to the try-on booths. The Customer

enters one. We SEE that the saloon-style doors of the booths

have been hung too high, so as he takes off his pants, his

underwear is exposed to the world. We PULL BACK, REVEALING

other people in other booths, their bare asses clearly in

sight. No one in the store seems to care, however, as they

are much too busy dancing.

The front door opens and BOBBIE, a very sultry and earthy-

looking girl with long, dark hair, pushes inside. She is

O'Neill's girl and Debbie's best friend... She's also someone

who would party every night if given half a chance.

Phoebe crosses to them.

The girls screech and jump around, hugging each other in

sheer joy. A MALE CUSTOMER, moved by this outpouring of

affection, moves over and gets in the middle of the girls,

enjoying every moment of being hugged by three women at once.

Reluctantly the guy retreats back to the Calvin Klein jeans

rack.

The girls all start to scream and carry on all over again.

INT. RICK AND DEBBIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Rick is cooking dinner in the cramped combination kitchen /

living room. He has about five dishes going at once as he

dashes from stove to refrigerator. He grabs some hamburger

meat, rolls it into a ball, then slaps it on the counter. He

then takes a steam iron and presses it on the patty.

Debbie comes in the front door and crosses to him and hugs

him tightly, kissing him sweetly.

Rick crosses to the stove. A small fire is coming out of one

of the frying pans. He douses it with water.

Rick grabs her; starts kissing her passionately on the neck.

He grabs her. They kiss and slide down onto the table,

knocking the dishes to the floor.

EXT. BEL AIR-TYPE ESTATE - DAY

Through the iron gates of an impressive-looking estate comes

Debbie in her convertible VW Rabbit. She pulls up behind a

new Porsche 911 and a Jeep, all decked out with rifles, nets

and other hunting equipment. As she walks down the path toward

the house, she sees something off in the distance that

startles her.

DEBBIE'S POV

A large brown grizzly bear appears to be entering the side

door of the house.

ANGLE - DEBBIE

DEBBIE'S POV

The "Bear" turns around. We SEE that the bear is, in fact,

dead. It is being carried by a tall, handsome HUNTER. He

waves to Debbie and indicates for her to follow him inside.

INT. COLE'S SMOKEHOUSE - DAY

Debbie opens a rustic-looking door and peers in.

CAMERA PANS WITH Debbie as she enters the room. She passes

several trophies, guns and stuffed animal heads hanging from

the wall. She makes her way past some sections of an

undetermined animal's anatomy hanging from hooks suspended

from the ceiling. Finally we see COLE WHITTIER, a Steve Garvey

look-alike... rugged all-American, and heir to the Whittier

Plastic Wrap fortune. Despite his jockish good looks and

outward arrogance, there's something in his manner that is

definitely unsavory.

As Debbie approaches him we SEE that he is butchering some

unfortunate friend of the forest on the table in front of

him. (NOTE: For the squeamish, all of this is done OUT OF

FRAME. The only thing we should HEAR are the delightful SOUNDS

of TAXIDERMY.)

Debbie tries her best not to look down at what he's doing.

Cole stops what he is doing for a beat and just stares at

Debbie intensely. Then he returns to his work with a renewed

enthusiasm, chopping, slashing and slicing.

Debbie exits and we PUSH IN ON Cole. Something on his face

says, "Hi! I'm really out of my mind."

INT. DR. STAN STAHL'S OFFICE - DAY

DR. STAN is Rick's older brother and a proctologist. Although

he's only in his early thirties, he thinks and acts like

someone in their early 70's. A little on the pompous side,

Stan is never without his pipe.

He crosses to a sterile container and takes out a syringe.

Just then, Stan sticks the needle in his arm.

Stan removes the needle and hands Rick a cotton ball.

CAMERA FOLLOWS them as they go out into the hall.

They pass an open examining room. Stan's wife, TINA, is also

a doctor and is examining an old man. She's not as tiny as

her name suggests. In face, she's more like over-sized.

Rick moves to hug her and he notices that Tina has her finger

up the old guy's ass.

Tina turns to a NURSE.

The nurse shrugs and sticks her finger up the patient's rear

end as Tina hugs Rick.

Rick hugs her, uneasily trying to make sure her right hand

doesn't come anywhere near his face.

EXT. DEBBIE'S PARENTS' HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

Debbie and Rick and her MOM and DAD are having a frustrating

game of tennis behind her parents' plush home. Mr. Thomerson

is a stockily-built guy in his fifties who prides himself on

being tough and competitive. His wife loves to shop. As far

as she's concerned, appearances are everything. Neither of

them likes Rick's appearance or anything else about their

future son-in-law. Mr. Thomerson slams the ball to Rick;

Rick slams the ball back and drives it over the fence, out

of the court.

Mr. Thomerson serves the ball to Debbie, who hits it over

the net to her mother, who hits it to Rick, who slams it

over the fence, out of the court. Mr. Thomerson does not

look pleased.

Rick starts humming the "ABC Wide World of Sports" theme

loudly. Mr. T. gives him a disgusted look and serves the

ball. Rick smashes the ball and sends it over the fence, out

of the court.

EXT. THE THOMERSON'S NEIGHBORS' BACKYARD - DAY

A middle-aged COUPLE are sitting on some lawn furniture trying

to read the newspaper. A tennis ball comes down from the sky

and hits the guy squarely on the top of the head. PULL OUT

to REVEAL that they're surrounded by dozens of tennis balls.

EXT. THE THOMERSON'S - MEDIUM SHOT - DAY

Rick and Mr. Thomerson are having a heart to heart chat over

some lemonade in front of the tennis court.

As Mr. Thomerson drones on, Rick shifts uncomfortably in his

chair, focusing his attention on Debbie, her mother and her

older, cynical cousin, ILENE, who are sitting nearby on the

rear patio.

ANGLE - DEBBIE, MRS. THOMERSON AND ILENE

ANGLE - MR. THOMERSON AND RICK

Mr. Thomerson rolls his eyes, knowing he's been wasting his

breath. He grabs the pitcher of lemonade and Rick grabs the

tray, which is filled with fresh lemons. They get up at the

same time and collide, sending the lemonade all over Mr. T.,

and the lemons bounding over the fence.

EXT. THOMERSON'S NEIGHBORS' HOUSE

The Neighbor we saw before is reading his paper when an

avalanche of lemons comes flying at him, joining the tennis

balls on the lawn.

INT. THOMERSON HOUSE - DAY

The Thomersons, Rick, Debbie and Ilene are just finishing

lunch. The DOORBELL RINGS. Mr. Thomerson gets up to answer

it. Standing there is Cole, wearing his tennis shorts.

Cole crosses to the table and kisses Mrs. T's hand gallantly.

He turns to Rick.

Cole gives him a quick look of contempt and exits with Mr.

T.

EXT. THOMERSON TENNIS COURT - DAY

Mr. T. and Cole are having a fast-paced game.

Mr. T. drills a wicked forehand shot straight at Cole, who

swings at it and misses.

PUSH IN ON Cole. This is a man with a plan...

EXT. PARK ON A BLUFF - DAY

The bluff overlooks the ocean. It's a beautiful spot. Just

the right setting for an outdoor wedding. Some folding chairs

have been set up and a canvas canopy.

Gathered for the rehearsal are Gary, Ryko, Chulo, O'Neill

who is with Bobbie, Debbie's mother and Mr. Thomerson, Phoebe,

Ilene, Tina, Stan, a gray-haired priest. FATHER FALWELL and,

of course, Rick and Debbie. Everyone is admiring this

picturesque setting. Everyone but Mr. Thomerson. He's very

underjoyed at the sight of Rick and his friends. Mr. and

Mrs. Thomerson are standing with Father Falwell. They are

watching Rick holding Debbie.

ANOTHER ANGLE

In the b.g. we SEE O'Neill's back TO US. He is definitely

relieving himself on a weeping willow. The wind begins to

pick up.

Everyone takes their places for the wedding procession. The

wind now takes this time to blow with much greater force. As

Father Falwell opens his Bible, the wind rips the pages out

of the Holy Book. They blow to the four corners of the Earth.

He hums the Wedding March. Chulo hums along. His humming is

a driving Jimi Hendrix-like guitar lick that all but drowns

out Father's humming.

FATHER FALWELL

He's orchestrating the proceedings.

As he gestures for them to make their walk to him, a gust of

wind lifts up Father's cassock, exposing his bare ass. He

quickly grabs his cassock and covers himself.

RICK

He begins to walk toward the priest. Suddenly, out of nowhere,

Cole appears at his side.

They are now standing near Father Falwell. Debbie is

approaching them with Mr. Thomerson. Mr. T. shoots Cole a

signal to up the ante.

Debbie and Mr. T. have joined Rick.

Cole turns red with anger.

He runs off.

The wind suddenly picks up. A storm is coming in off the

sea. Father Falwell's cassock blows up again. It starts to

rain and hail. Everyone runs for cover but Rick and O'Neill.

INT. RICK AND DEBBIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Rick is snuggled cozily on his side of the bed, fast asleep.

Debbie is staring anxiously at the ceiling. After a couple

of beats, she tugs at Rick's shoulder.

He groggily reaches into the nightstand, pulls out a hammer.

He raises it as if to hit Debbie over the head.

He starts to gently rub her shoulders. She breathes deeply,

trying to let go.

He slowly lowers her to her pillow and tucks the covers in

around her.

He yawns again and turns off the light on the night table.

There is a beat of silence in the dark. We PUSH IN ON their

faces, which are faintly illuminated by a street light outside

the open window. Both of them have their eyes wide open as

they stare at the ceiling in fearful anticipation of the

next day.

INT. AIRPORT - DAY

The guys (except Gary) are walking through the busy airport.

ANGLE - THE EXIT RAMP

People are streaming out of the plane. Finally the last person

exits.

Larry floats toward them and stops in front of them. He stares

at them strangely, looking from face to face.

To the guys' surprise, he goes around hugging each one of

them.

They start walking toward the baggage claim area.

Larry stops walking and immediately breaks down.

Larry reaches into his pocket, takes out a Quaalude.

He pops it in his mouth.

EXT. TERMINAL

The guys exit the Baggage Area. Rick is pushing Larry who is

sprawled out on top of his bags in a luggage cart.

Before Larry can answer they reach the bus where Debbie is

waiting for them.

As a couple of the guys pick Larry up and carry him into the

bus we

INT. BUS - DUSK

Rick is driving the bus with Debbie sitting next to him in

the driver's seat. The guys sit in the row of seats behind

them.

ANGLE - THE GUYS

They start to join in the song in a little less than perfect

harmony.

EXT. BUS

The bus zooms down the street.

EXT. THOMERSON'S - DUSK

Rick's bus comes up to the driveway in front of the house

and stops.

INT. RICK'S BUS - DUSK

He opens the door, picks Debbie up and carries her out to

the sidewalk.

She grabs Rick and wraps her arm around him in a playful

headlock.

Debbie lets go of his neck.

They kiss, and the guys whistle in the background. Then Debbie

starts toward the house and Rick hops back into the bus. He

gets into the seat and sits there for a moment, watching

Debbie with a guilty look as she goes into the house.

The guys holler and whoop it up as Rick puts the bus in gear

and takes off down the street.

INT. GRIMY STREET CORNER - EVENING

JUMBO, a well-dressed behemoth in a sky blue suit and

widebrimmed hat, is standing on a street corner talking to

Gary.

Gary takes out a roll of bills, which Jumbo grabs and quickly

counts.

Two shapely HOOKERS in tight-fitting clothes come up to them.

The girls look at him with "Is he for real?" in their eyes.

Gary takes some slips of paper out of his pocket and hands

Jumbo one.

Gary turns, almost collides with a garbage can, and starts

walking down the street. He passes a parked Porsche. After a

beat, Cole Whittier sticks his head up and watches Gary walk

off. Then he hops out of his car and approaches Jumbo and

the girls.

Cole's face lights up. This is the information he needed.

He takes out a fifty-dollar bill.

Cole smiles happily as he slithers back to his car.

ANGLE - HOTEL

A parking VALET crosses to the bus as Rick hands him the

keys.

The guys hop out with the enthusiasm of a home team that's

just won the state championship. They race in the front door.

A banner over the door reads: "WELCOME MISS MOOSEHEAD BEER

PAGEANT."

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

This is a pretty plush place. The kind of hotel that prides

itself on its classy image. The guys are totally unaware of

the sedate atmosphere in the lobby as they go screaming toward

the elevators.

Just as they are about to get into the elevator, a hand comes

INTO FRAME and holds the door so it will not close.

WIDEN TO INCLUDE the MANAGER. All their carrying-on stops

when the guys see him staring grimly at them. If he wasn't a

hotel manager, he'd be a mortician. He has a constant

expression on his face that suggests he's constantly sucking

lemons.

Rick takes out his key.

The door starts to close and the guys start yelling.

The door slams shut before the Manager can say anything else.

INT. THE THOMERSON'S - NIGHT

Several of Debbie's friends have arrived and are chatting

amiably in the living room. Phoebe is dipping potato chips

into a bowl that says "Muffy" on it.

Debbie comes into the living room and sits next to Bobbie.

EXT. HOTEL HALLWAY - NIGHT

Rick, Ryko, O'Neill, Chulo, Larry and Stan are walking down

the hallway, looking for their room.

The guys give out a hearty cheer as they huddle around the

door. O'Neill grabs the doorknob. He takes his time, playing

up the moment.

The guys lean forward, anticipating the opening of the gates

of heaven.

He flings open the door and everyone but he and Rick burst

into the room.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

The guys all but dive into the room. It is a two-room suite

with living room/kitcheonette and separate bedroom. The room

has been decorated with balloons. A sign reads: "Happy

Bachelor Party!" It looks far from professionally decorated.

Chulo frantically checks out the rooms.

He hangs a chin-up bar in a doorway and starts to chin

himself.

He takes a prophylactic out of a Trojan carton. He blows it

up. On closer examination, we SEE all the balloons are

inflated prophylactics.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Chulo returns from his search of the rooms.

He threads a film projector.

Ryko flips off the lights as O'Neill puts the projector into

forward and the title flashes on a movie screen. All the

guys yell in anticipation.

HOME MOVIE SCREEN

We SEE a man stepping out of a shower. He puts on his robe

and exits the bathroom. To his surprise and to the delight

of our guys, two young, beautiful Nordic looking women,

dressed in micro-minis and see-through blouses stand waiting

for him.

RYKO AND CHULO

sit watching the screen.

RICK AND O'NEILL

ON SCREEN

The man takes off his robe. The girls start to seductively

undress.

Suddenly an abrupt jump cut. The girls are undressed and

lying on top of the man. Our guys are seriously let down.

GUYS

O'NEILL

He can't figure it out.

ON THE SCREEN

As the women kiss the man from his head slowly down his chest,

past his navel and heading south...

GUYS

Their eyes start to widen like a child in a Keene painting.

ON THE SCREEN

Another abrupt jump cut spliced together with what looks

like a band-aid, and the girls are sitting on the side of

the bed. The man is recovering from the best sex he's ever

encountered.

GUYS

Rick turns to a shocked O'Neill.

GUYS' POV

They watch the screen. The two women seem to be taking a

liking to each other. They begin to fall onto the bed and

entwine.

A jump cut and they are dressing. Stan can't take it anymore.

He jumps to his feet.

O'Neill rises abruptly.

Everyone cheers.

INT. THOMERSON HOUSE

The girls are having a great time. The front DOORBELL RINGS.

Mrs. Thomerson answers it. Standing in the doorway is Tina

Stahl, Stan's wife; she's late for the shower. Behind her

are two obvious hookers: Margot and Darlene. Tina doesn't

know either of the girls.

Before Tina can speak, Margot speaks up. She's reading from

the piece of paper Cole gave her.

INSERT - PIECE OF PAPER

Margot reads the address.

BACK TO SCENE

REVERSE ANGLE - THE STREET

Cole sits in his car and watches happily as the hookers go

inside.

INT. THOMERSON'S LIVING ROOM

Debbie spots Tina. She is oblivious to the two hookers.

They give each other a big hug. The hookers watch closely.

Debbie leads Tina to the other women.

The girls hug and give big hellos. Meanwhile, Margot and

Darlene have come to the conclusion they've been hired for a

kinky scene.

They start to unbutton their coats.

Tina hands Debbie her present.

She sits and the girls gather around as she starts to open

the gift.

Phoebe happens to look off and is stunned by what she sees.

The others are curious at what she is looking at and they

too stare O.S., stunned to silence.

MARGOT AND DARLENE

dressed in leather and mesh stockings. Margot carries a whip.

Darlene is holding a phallic electrical device.

Debbie unconsciously points to a nearby wall. Margot and

Darlene stand amidst the girls. Darlene plugs in her device.

She and Margot start to embrace and fondle one another. The

girls watch in stony silence. Dumbfounded at what they see.

Margot and Darlene start to sink to the floor, OUT OF OUR

SIGHT. Before they disappear, we see Margot take out her gum

and park it on an end table. Now OUT OF SIGHT, the girls

watch for a beat. Then we hear the WHIRRING of Darlene's

implement. Our girls screech in horror and hold onto one

another in a protective clump.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

The guys are sitting around drinking, eating and looking

generally bored. Chulo sits in front of the TV, glumly

watching an old "I Love Lucy" re-run.

Chulo gives him a strange look.

Gary enters the room. He's all smiles. Confident he's done a

great job arranging for the entertainment.

Everyone crowds around him like children greeting Daddy.

Looking for candy hidden in his coat.

Rick pushes them away from Gary like a referee separating

two fighters.

He exits out the door.

The guys toss sandwiches and empty beer cans at him.

Everyone pelts Rick and O'Neill with more junk.

Suddenly the door bursts open. The guys look up and are

surprised to see Cole enter.

Cole enters, closing the door behind him.

RICK'S POV

Cole's Porsche parked in the hotel parking lot.

BACK TO SCENE

Rick gestures to Chulo to look out the window.

Chulo gets Rick's drift.

He starts to exit. Before he does, he grabs a hanger out of

the closet.

They back away from the window.

All the guys treat this as if it's "Let's Make A Deal". They

take sides, yelling out, "Take the car," "Keep Debbie." Over

the din we hear a befuddled Rick.

He walks over to the window. Cole follows closely. He's trying

to convince Rick to take the car.

EXT. HOTEL PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Chulo is using the hanger to jimmy the car lock on Cole's

Porsche. He's successful. He jumps into the car and drives

off.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Rick and Cole are at the window. The guys are still trying

to convince Rick on his decision.

As he looks out the window we see with him that his car is

gone.

He charges out of the room.

EXT. STREET CORNER - NIGHT

Gary spots Jumbo on the same grimy street corner. He's pimping

for one of his ladies and makes a sale to an anxious young

Marine as Gary approaches him.

Jumbo has had enough. He backs Gary against a wall and pulls

a knife on him.

Gary hurriedly digs into his pockets and gives Jumbo his

money.

He snaps his fingers and TWO of his LADIES come forward.

The girls walk over to Gary and proceed to beat the crap out

of him.

EXT. CHIPPENDALE'S - NIGHT

It is a garish nightclub. A large lighted billboard proclaims

"ALL MALE... ALL NUDE." Two cars pull into the parking lot.

Debbie and all of her shower guests get out.

The girls giggle as they enter the place, with Mrs. Thomerson

following reluctantly behind.

INT. CHIPPENDALE'S - NIGHT

They head for some empty tables. Debbie notices her mother

is still standing transfixed by the MAN on display on stage.

Debbie grabs her by the shoulder.

On the way to the table they pass MICHAEL, the bartender,

who looks at them and immediately recognizes Debbie. Finding

this interesting, he picks up a phone and dials.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Gary, beaten up, his clothes ripped, stands amidst the guys.

The guys take out money. Larry stands and digs into his pocket

for his wallet. Along with the wallet comes dozens of pills.

The PHONE RINGS.

Rick picks up the receiver.

INT. CHIPPENDALE'S - MICHAEL

He's standing behind the bar.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

He hangs up the phone. Gary, meantime, has collected his

money.

Gary exits.

The guys start toward the door.

As Larry slumps on the couch, the guys exit.

EXT. HOTEL

Rick and the guys exit the hotel. As they exit, Mr. Thomerson

enters. Both parties are oblivious to the other's presence.

INT. HOTEL

Mr. Thomerson is greeted by a Moosehead Beer EXECUTIVE who

is wearing a straw hat that says "Moosehead Beer."

He enters a phone booth and starts to dial.

He crosses with executive toward the ballroom.

They exit into ballroom.

INT. CHIPPENDALE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Amidst the kitchen activities we SEE Rick, O'Neill, Ryko,

Stan, and Michael.

STAN

He's peeking through the kitchen door. We SEE Debbie and the

shower girls whooping it up at a ringside table. Stan turns

back to Rick.

He joins the other guys.

The guys shout approval as NICK, one of the male dancers,

enters carrying a tray of food. Nick is a muscled hunk.

Nick drops his pants. Since he's being SHOT only from the

WAIST UP, we can't see what the guys see.

Nick holds the tray waist high. Rick arranges the food.

Michael hands Rick a hot dog bun. Rick places it on the tray.

He turns to Nick.

NICK

He holds the tray with one hand. With the other he reaches

OUT OF FRAME. In a nutshell, what he does is place his honker

in the hot dog bun. As he slaps his business into the bun,

we HEAR a solid THUMP.

He exits. As he does, our guys crowd around and peek through

the kitchen door.

NICK

We FOLLOW him as he approaches the girls' table.

The girls grab their orders. Mrs. T. is last. Hers is the

hot dog. She points to it.

Mrs. T. grabs the hot dog. It won't come off the tray. She

yanks harder. Nick drops the tray and Mrs. T. finally comes

to realize what she is pulling on. She screams in terror.

Because of sheer fright, she can't seem to drop Nick's schlong

from her grip. The rest of our ladies look to see Mrs. T. 's

hot dog. They scream in shock. Debbie spits out her

marguerita, hitting Phoebe in the face.

OUR GUYS

They are busting a gut watching the girls' reactions.

MRS. T

still frozen in a state of shock. The girls try to pry her

hands off.

EXT. STREET CORNER

Several HOOKERS are standing around. Gary approaches them.

She gestures to a MAN with his back TO US.

The PIMP turns around and we SEE he is the stereotypical

pimp. One big difference: he's an Indian straight from the

streets of Calcutta. He's soft-spoken and ever smiling and

he still hasn't quite mastered English.

ANOTHER ANGLE

MILT joins them. Milt is a massive hulk. A bearded exbiker.

He could have come out of an MX silo. A menacing mountain of

a man decked out in a cowboy hat.

Milt casually takes off his hat and immediately sticks his

face through a nearby window, smashing it to pieces. He pulls

his head out, smiles and puts his hat back on.

Gary extends his hand and they shake.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

The guys are piling back out of the bus into the hotel. The

Manager watches them suspiciously.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Rick, O'Neill, Ryko and Stan come back into the room.

Rick crosses to the bathroom door, opens it and goes in.

RICK'S POV

Larry is on his knees on the side of the tub with his head

submerged fully under several inches of water.

Larry comes out of the water. He gasps for breath and speaks.

He takes a deep breath and submerges his head again. Rick

unplugs the tub and it begins to drain.

The water has drained from the tub, leaving Larry high and

dry. He lifts his head out of the tub. In his state, he's

unaware that the water is gone. He gasps for air as Rick

holds him up.

Larry takes a deep breath and plunges his head into the tub.

His head hits the waterless tub bottom with a loud THUD. He

goes limp from the concussion. His body drapes into the tub,

head first.

Larry gets up and exits the room. PUSH IN ON Rick. He looks

after Larry, concerned.

ANGLE - THE LOBBY

Cole sits in a phone booth holding the receiver impatiently.

ANGLE WIDENS TO REVEAL THE ADJOINING PHONE BOOTH

The receiver is off the hook. After a beat, Mr. T. crosses

to the phone. Cole does not see him, and vice versa.

Looking over into the next booth, he sees Thomerson's back.

He slams the phone down and EXITS SCREEN RIGHT. Cole starts

to exit left when he spots Chulo getting into the elevator.

The elevator doors slam shut. Cole races out into the street.

EXT. HOTEL

Cole comes bursting out into the street. We can tell by his

shocked expression he doesn't like what he sees.

CAMERA PANS as he charges to his Porsche. His pride and joy

has now, thanks to Chulo, been customized into a Chicano

special. It's chopped and channeled; dingleberries rim the

back window, flames have been painted on the rear fender; a

chain steering wheel, fuzzy dashboard, dice hanging from the

mirror. A real East L.A. beauty.

ANGLE - COLE

He's snapped -- totally flipped. He turns and yells up to

the hotel:

INT. HOTEL SUITE - ANGLE - RICK

He's standing near the window.

He looks out the window and sees Cole standing next to his

transformed Porsche.

ANGLE - THE STREET

Cole hops in his car and drives off, blowing his HORN at

oncoming traffic. The HORN PLAYS "LA CUCURACHA." Cole slams

his fist on the steering wheel in disgust.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

He grabs Rick by the arm and leads him out of the room.

INT. HOTEL RESTAURANT

Rick is finishing giving the food order to a WAITER. In the

b.g. we SEE O'Neill talking to a BELLHOP. The Bellhop is

pointing to a table. O'Neill thanks him and slips him some

money.

Waiter acknowledges he's got it and exits. O'Neill joins

Rick.

O'Neill leads Rick to the table the Bellhop pointed out.

They sit down. Immediately O'Neill takes some cash from his

pocket and holds it under the table.

ANGLE UNDER THE TABLE

Huddled underneath the table, hidden by the tablecloth, is a

HOOKER. Her specialty is coming right up. She grabs the bills

from O'Neill's hand. She tucks the money in her cleavage and

turns her talents to Rick. She unzips his fly.

RICK

He reacts to the ZIP SOUND.

The Hooker has begun to do what she does best. And Rick loves

it.

FATHER FALWELL

enters the restaurant. He spots Rick and O'Neill and crosses

to them.

Rick tries to maintain his dignity. But from under the table

a blue ribbon job is being applied to his fun zone.

Falwell shakes Rick's hand. Rick hangs on for dear life.

Pumping the hand up and down at a faster and faster rate.

Falwell pries his hand loose.

Rick's excitement heightens as the Hooker pulls out all stops.

Father Falwell looks on rather perplexed. Rick sees Falwell's

puzzled look.

Before Rick can speak we HEAR a VOICE from under the table.

Rick's hand EXITS FRAME and zips up his pants. Then Rick and

O'Neill get up.

O'Neill can't believe what Rick is about to do.

He sits in Rick's spot. Rick leans on the table to say his

final farewell to the priest. He takes this moment to get

some money out of his pocket and hold it under the table.

UNDER THE TABLE

The Hooker grabs the money.

BACK TO SCENE

He and Rick, suppressing a laugh, exit. Father Falwell picks

up the menu. We HEAR the ZIP SOUND. Father perks up. He

doesn't know what the hell is happening.

O'Neill turns to Rick as they're leaving the coffee shop.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Rick and O'Neill enter the suite. No one is there.

Everyone jumps out from their hiding places. With our guys

is Gary and his team of FIVE PROSTITUTES.

One of our hookers, KELLEY, gets everyone's attention.

Everyone acts as if they're in grade school. They raise their

hands; they come on like kids trying to get the teacher's

attention.

Everyone cheers Stan's good fortune. Kelley takes Stan by

the hand and leads him into the bedroom. Gary turns on a

record and everyone starts dancing. Larry is laying out drugs

on a table. They consist of lines of coke and various happy

time pills of all colors and shapes. Rick takes a look at

the layout.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Chulo enters. He sees the party has taken off.

He spots a sweet-faced young hooker, LAVERNE. She is prancing

around in her bra and underwear. Chulo wants her.

Laverne is frightened of Chulo. Mainly because he's coming

at her like a sex-starved buffalo. Chulo goes after her.

Scared, she runs around the room, then out the door. Chulo

gives chase.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

Laverne runs down the hall, closely pursued by Chulo. An all-

female NEW WAVE BAND comes to the door. O'Neill greets them.

As they enter we go to --

INT. CORRIDOR

Chulo is on the heels of Laverne. She bursts through a door

to excape him.

INT. STAGE

Laverne finds herself on the stage of a beauty pageant, still

in her bra and panties. FIVE other LADIES are dressed in

their bathing suits. Chulo stops short of running on stage.

Laverne, seeking the safety of the moment, stands in line

with the contestants.

ANGLE ON MR. THOMERSON AND OTHER JUDGES

They like what they see.

INT. THOMERSON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Debbie and the shower guests are all in a state of undress.

We WATCH as they put on dresses and heavy makeup. Mrs.

Thomerson is still freaked out over her meeting with Nick

the Dick.

Ilene shoves socks in her bra to enhance her cleavage and

defiantly slaps on her new dress.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

The party is taking off. The all-girl band is going ape shit.

The guys are dancing with the hookers. They're all moving in

unison, to a gyrating New Wave dance step and singing along

with the MUSIC.

ANGLE - RYKO

He's wearing gravity boots, hanging upside down, entwined

around one of the hookers. They're hanging there, making out

like crazy. Gary passes by.

ANGLE - BEDROOM DOOR

Stan comes out of the bedroom. He's disheveled, but looks

very happy. He crosses to Rick.

Stan pats Rick on the back and dives into the festivities.

ANGLE - GARY

He spots someone across the room. It's like Tony spotting

Maria for the first time in "West Side Story." As in a DREAM

SEQUENCE, ALL SOUNDS STOP. Two pinspots hit them. She turns

and sees him. She smiles. Both are madly in love. Like two

pieces of metal attracted to the same magnet, they walk toward

each other.

They take each other by the hand. They walk into the bedroom

and close the door behind them.

The New Wave dance briefly continues, then comes to an end.

ANOTHER ANGLE - THE HOTEL ROOM

O'Neill grabs Ryko (who is just coming down from his gravity

bar) and Stan, who is wearing a pair of women's underwear on

his head.

Ryko and Stan cross to the door and exit. As they do, four

or five pretty GIRLS are passing by in the hallway.

The girls cross inside.

INT. BATHROOM - TIGHT ON LARRY

There is a pained, tragic and extremely stoned out look on

his face as he sighs deeply and then summons up his courage.

WIDEN as he looks down at his right wrist.

He heaves another deep sigh and brings an electric razor

INTO FRAME. He turns it on and runs it over his wrist. Of

course, nothing happens. Just then Rick enters.

As he shoves Larry out, Gary enters the bathroom. His

expression tells us he's had the best sex of his life.

Rick exits as Gary dreamily crosses to the mirror.

Gary's "woman" enters and closes the door. Their eyes meet.

Gary takes her hand and kisses it gently. She turns away,

then lifts up the toilet seat, lifts up her dress and proceeds

to pee. She is a man. Gary is stunned. His jaw drops open.

Gary's dream girl/guy finishes his business. He drops his

dress and turns to Gary.

He blows a kiss and starts to leave, but turns back.

Tim exits. Gary feels filthy. He rips open the cabinet, takes

out tooth paste and toothbrush and vigorously brushes his

teeth. He rips off his clothes and jumps in the shower and

scrubs as if he's scraping barnacles off a hull of a tugboat.

EXT. STABLES - NIGHT

Ryko and Stan drive up to a country stable. They get out of

the car and open a barn door. Both are pleased at what they

see.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Standing there is a donkey, eating straw.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

Cole drives up in his Chulo-customized Porsche. He gets out,

then reaches back into the car and takes out a crossbow (the

heavy duty metal kind hunters use). He looks up menacingly

at the hotel and spots the room where the party is going on.

He sees another hotel across the way. He gets an idea and

enters the other hotel.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

The party is going full blast. Some other girls and a couple

of guys (hotel guests) enter the room and are quickly swept

up in the spirit of the party. O'Neill approaches Rick.

Rick enters the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM

It's dark, but for a lamp on the nightstand which is on. In

one corner of the room we SEE the figure of a woman.

Tracey walks toward Rick. The light illuminates her. What we

see is truly the most beautiful woman on earth. She is totally

nude. A vision that would make any man screw and ask questions

later.

Rick instinctively makes a move toward her. He decides to go

for it.

RICK'S POV - TRACEY

Just then a strange thing happens to Tracey's face. It

transforms into Debbies.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Rick stops dead in his tracks. He can't believe it. Debbie's

face is now on Tracey's body.

Rick is shaken by this. He shakes his head and wipes at his

eyes. Debbie's face is gone. He moves toward Tracey again.

TRACEY

Her face transforms into Sister Mary Francis.

Sister Mary Francis's face disappears.

ANOTHER ANGLE

TRACEY

Her face becomes Stan's.

Stan's face turns back to Tracey's.

ANOTHER ANGLE

All the kids from his bus are gathered around Tracey. They're

egging him on.

Debbie's face appears on Tracey's.

Debbie's face disappears. Rick can't take it anymore.

He runs out of the room, leaving a very confused Tracey in

his wake.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

O'Neill is waiting outside the bedroom door as Rick comes

out.

Rick crosses to the bar area as O'Neill watches him go,

beaming.

INT. HOTEL ROOM ACROSS THE STREET - NIGHT

Cole enters the room. He runs to the window.

COLE'S POV

His window is right opposite the window in the hotel of Rick's

party.

COLE

He's pleased. Very pleased. He places an arrow into his

crossbow.

COLE'S POV

He's looking down his sights. Rick is the target... and an

easy one at that, for at this very moment Rick is crossing

past the window.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

The door opens and in walks Rajah, the Indian pimp. He looks

pissed. He's looking for Gary.

COLE'S POV

He has Rick right where he wants him.

CROSSBOW TRIGGER

Cole's finger squeezes off a shot.

RICK

Luckily he starts to dance with a female guest. This takes

him out of line of the arrow.

HOTEL SUITE WINDOW

The arrow zooms through the open window.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Rajah is standing by the door. The arrow zips through the

room, misses everyone and lodges in the wall inches from

Rajah's head. He looks at the arrow and realizes he almost

was killed.

He runs out of the room. Rick and O'Neill watch Rajah exit,

confused.

Just then another arrow comes zipping through the room,

lodging in a chair inches from Rick.

They turn in the direction the arrow came from and look out

the window. They spot Cole loading his bow in the room across

the way.

They start for the door as we go to --

INT. BACKSTAGE OF BEAUTY PAGEANT

Chulo is waiting outside a door that says "Dressing Room."

Several of the beauty contestants race out wearing formal

gowns. Laverne follows them, wearing a very tight black dress.

Chulo approaches her.

Laverne is moved by this. Before she can respond a Stage

Manager takes her by the arm and pushes her on stage.

Chulo watches Laverne enter the stage to hearty applause.

ANGLE - THE AUDIENCE

Mr. Thomerson and the other Judges sit in the front row making

notes.

MEDIUM SHOT - THE STAGE

The girls are lined up on pedestals as the MC approaches

Laverne

He looks through his cards hurriedly and is unable to find

Laverne's.

ANGLE - THE CROWD

They break into spontaneous applause.

ANGLE - CHULO

He is totally blown away.

ANGLE - LAVERNE

She smiles broadly at the applause and walks off stage. Chulo

moves alongside her.

Chulo looks at her with awe and respect as she exits into

the dressing room.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - NIGHT

Debbie, her mother and the girls enter the lobby. They

approach the Hotel Manager, who is standing behind the front

desk. They are dressed garishly, like hookers. Debbie has on

a cheap blonde wig and mini skirt. The Manager looks at them

the way one would look at an approaching plague.

The Manager crosses to them.

The girls turn and start toward the elevator. Mrs. Thomerson,

who is wearing the kind of push-up bra that makes her tits

look like the Black Hills, smiles at the Manager seductively.

He smiles back, then catches himself.

The girls cross to the elevator. Ilene pushes the button and

the doors swing open. They get inside and just before the

doors close, a huge behemoth of a man joins them inside. He

turns and faces CAMERA. It's Milt, Rajah's beefy helper. He

doesn't look happy as he eyes the girls. They look back at

him uncomfortably as the doors slam shut.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

The elevator door opens. Milt has all the girls by the collar

and hustles them down the hall.

Milt stops at a door and kicks it with his foot. The door

opens a crack at first, then swings open wide, revealing six

middle-aged Japanese business MEN in their underwear. They

smile wide at the girls, obviously thrilled with the quality

of the merchandise delivered to them. Milt shoves them into

the room.

He slams the door shut and exits.

INT. JAPANESE GUYS' ROOM

The guys start to move toward our panicked girls. They speak

to each other in Japanese (with English subtitles)

They turn toward the door. One of the Japanese races over

and gets there first, slamming and bolting the door shut.

The girls run around the room in a panic with the Japanese

chasing them in very hot pursuit.

EXT. COLE'S ROOM

Rick, O'Neill and Tracey quietly approach Cole's door. Tracey

is dressed in a see-through negligee.

He and O'Neill duck around the hallway corner, out of sight.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

He is at the window, holding his crossbow. He is frantically

searching the bachelor party across the way for any sign of

Rick.

He hears a KNOCK on the DOOR. Cole quickly hides his crossbow

under the bed and answers the door.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Tracey stands in the open door. Cole's jaw drops open. He

has never seen anything as lovely.

She walks into the room. Cole closes the door.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE COLE'S DOOR

Rick and O'Neill run up to the door. They listen closely. We

HEAR the SOUND of Cole's SHIRT being RIPPED off, the buttons

flying around the room, then the SOUND of his pant ZIPPER

being undone.

e and O'Neill burst into the room and close the door.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

O'Neill is tying the end of a sheet around the bed post. We

SEE the bed is minus its sheets and blankets.

ANOTHER ANGLE

The guys have tied the sheets and blankets together and made

a rope. The other end is tied around Cole's chest. And that's

all Cole is wearing; he's nude.

Rick stuffs Cole's underwear in his mouth to gag him.

He and O'Neill lift Cole up and put him out the window. They

hang onto the sheet/blanket rope and lower him slowly outside.

EXT. HOTEL

We SEE Cole being lowered from the window.

CLOSER ON COLE

He's struggling, but can do nothing about his predicament.

He looks down.

COLE'S POV

The hotel parking lot is ten stories below.

COLE

He looks up to the guys.

RICK AND O'NEILL

They look down at him from the window above.

They duck inside the window.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

Rick, O'Neill and Tracey exit the room.

COLE

He's scared to death.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

We SEE that Cole's weight is pulling the bed to the window.

COLE

He's slowly lowering down the side of the building.

INT. ANOTHER HOTEL ROOM

A YOUNG COUPLE enters the room. They are very much in love.

He gives her a kiss and closes the door.

She smiles coyly and starts to undress. He crosses to the

closed blinds.

He opens the blinds, revealing Cole's ass pressed up against

the window.

WOMAN

She screams, horrified.

INT. JAPANESE BUSINESSMEN'S ROOM

The girls are being hotly pursued by the Japanese men.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

The bed moves right up against the wall under the window. We

SEE the end tied to the bed post is beginning to untie.

COLE

He's panicked.

INT. COLE'S ROOM

The knot unties.

COLE

He falls OUT OF FRAME. The "rope" trailing behind.

INT. CAR

The young couple from the room are seated in his sportscar.

He's cranking open the sun roof.

The sun roof opens. Suddenly Cole's ass sticks through it.

The Woman freaks out again.

EXT. SPORTSCAR

We SEE a groggy Cole sitting in the sun roof. The Man in the

car is trying to calm down his lady.

INT. BANQUET ROOM - BACKSTAGE

Chulo and Laverne are standing in the wings while in the

b.g. we can SEE the MC singing the Moosehead Beer jingle.

Then:

Laverne and the five finalists go out on stage.

ANGLE - MR. THOMERSON

He gives an envelope to the MC.

ANGLE - THE GIRLS

They are all nervous, especially Laverne.

Laverne squeals with delight and hugs the MC as he puts the

bejeweled crown on her head. Then the MC leads her to the

microphone.

She points O.S. to Chulo, Chulo, with tears in his eyes,

comes out on stage and, in a surge of emotion, picks Laverne

up off her feet and hugs her passionately.

ANGLE - THE JUDGES

The other judge looks at Mr. Thomerson suspiciously.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

CAMERA PUSHES IN TO a car in the parking lot which is towing

a U-Haul trailer behind it. The car stops and turns off its

lights.

INT. CAR

Stan and O'Neill sit in the car looking at the hotel.

ANGLE - HOTEL ENTRANCE

Just then the "Moose" from the beauty pageant steps outside

the hotel for a smoke.

The guy in front removes the head, takes a drag of his

cigarette and passes it to the guy bringing up the rear.

After a beat, smoke steams out the rear end of the costume.

ANGLE - THE GUYS IN THE CAR

They both have the same idea. They stroll out of the car and

approach the two men in the moose suit. We can't hear what

they're saying, but we can SEE the bills Stan is taking out

of his pocket. Ryko grabs the moosehead and runs over to the

trailer with it.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - A FEW MINUTES LATER

The door opens and Stan and Ryko enter pulling the "Moose"

by a rope.

Just then Rick and O'Neill saunter into the lobby.

At that moment he HEARS a SPLAT hit the ground. The guys

look down and see a large, shiny clump of shiny brown

excrement nestled in the shag carpet.

The Manager crosses to them.

All the guests turn away in disgust. Stan takes out a

handkerchief and hands it to Rick, who closes his eyes and

picks up the warm little bundle. The Manager turns and walks

off in a huff. On the way back to the elevator, Rick checks

to see no one is watching and places the handkerchief's

contents on the front desk, just OUT OF FRAME. Smiling

contentedly, the guys lead the reluctant "moose" into the

elevator. The doors slam shut.

ANGLE AT THE DESK

The Manager is just finishing checking in a couple from out

of town.

He goes to hit the bell and to his surprise, his hand comes

down on something soft and mushy. The look on his face tells

us what it is. It's the "gift" Rick left behind.

Revolted, he races into a room marked "MEN."

ANGLE - BALLROOM DOORS

The doors open and several people from the Moosehead beauty

pageant come out. Mr. Thomerson is one of them.

Mr. T. crosses to the door just as Cole comes running in,

slightly dazed, wrapped in the tattered remnants of the sheet

that held him suspended out the window. They both are shocked

to see one another.

With a determined look, Thomerson crosses to the elevator,

as Cole runs into the hotel gift shop.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Rick, Ryko, Stan, O'Neill enter with the "moose."

O'Neill lifts the head off the moose costume, revealing a

real burro. The burro shows all his teeth as burros are apt

to do when excited. O'Neill and Stan zip off the rest of his

costume, revealing a well-endowed beast.

DESIREE, an erotic, tall woman wearing a leather face mask,

comes out of the bedroom carrying a long whip. Desiree puts

Ravel's "Bolero" on the PHONOGRAPH; then she starts to sway

her hips sensuously in front of the animal.

ANGLE - THE PARTY GUESTS

They all scream and holler approval.

ANGLE - DESIREE

She rubs up against the donkey, shaking her backside against

the animal's.

Now all eyes are on Desiree as she does an erotic striptease.

ANGLE - THE DONKEY

It is getting bored and a little hungry. It bends its head

to the left and spots the table with food on it. It bends

over and starts munching on some cole slaw.

ANGLE - DESIREE

To the catcalls of the partygoers, Desiree is getting all

worked up, stripping down to a G-string.

THE DONKEY

It's had enough cole slaw. Now it sniffs at Larry's drug

smorgasbord and then starts to chomp on a few pills. Next it

sticks its head into the lines of coke and snorts them up in

one gigantic sniff.

ANGLE - DESIREE

She lets her long, flowing hair hang down over her breasts.

Then she takes a mattress and sets it on the floor. She rolls

on it and sways her hips sensuously on her knees.

ANGLE - HER AUDIENCE

Rick can't believe he's seeing this. The other guys are

screaming at the top of their lungs. Even Larry seems spell-

bound.

ANGLE - THE DONKEY

It doesn't look so hot as it finishes off every drug on the

table.

ANGLE - DESIREE

She moves over to the donkey, hits him on the side gently

with her whip, then pulls him over to her mattress. The

donkey's blood-shot eyes are the size of saucers. Once again

he shows his teeth in a kind of shit-eating grin. Desiree

drops to the mattress and beckons the animal to her. Mike

the Donkey obediently does as he's told, moving to her in a

trance-like, very turned-on state.

The Donkey takes another step forward, and then suddenly

rears up on his hind legs, snorting. He starts bucking wildly.

The crowd moves out of his way as the animal goes berserk

for a few seconds, then without warning collapses in a heap

on the floor.

Everyone goes rushing up to it.

Chulo and Laverne enter the room, followed by several of the

other contestants and others from the beauty pageant.

He looks over and sees everyone gathered around Mike.

Gary shushes him. We PUSH IN ON Dr. Stan, who is listening

for signs of life in the animal's chest. Finally Stan stands

up somberly.

O'Neil places the moosehead on the donkey as Rick, Gary,

Chulo and Stan pull the donkey out into the hall like

pallbearers at a funeral.

INT. HALLWAY

Mr. Thomerson, who's been standing at the door, takes this

time to sneak into the suite right behind them.

INT. RICK'S SUITE

Mr. Thomerson can't believe the goings-on. People are making

out, drinking and dancing. He hides in a corner to watch

undercover.

ANGLE IN CORRIDOR

The guys shove the donkey onto the elevator and the doors

snap shut.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

He hangs up and crosses to the elevator.

Just then the elevator door swings open. The donkey falls

out into the lobby. The Manager screams in terror, as do

several of the hotel guests.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Some more uninvited guests come drifting into the room.

He turns and spots Mr. Thomerson as he makes his way through

the party.

Mr. Thomerson goes nose to nose with Rick.

He turns away and walks OUT OF FRAME. O'Neill crosses to

Rick.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Mr. Thomerson is heading for the phone in the bedroom.

Thomerson stops and turns to Rick.

He drops to his knees and hugs Thomerson's legs. The party

stops and everyone watches.

INT. HOTEL BEDROOM - O'NEILL AND LARRY

Larry is handing O'Neill a plastic bag filled with white

powder.

O'Neill unscrews the mouthpiece off the phone. He pours the

bag of cocaine into the phone. He then screws the mouthpiece

back on over this mound of powder. Satisfied with his work,

he exits the bedroom.

INT. SUITE - MAIN ROOM

Thomerson is trying to free himself from Rick's grasp as

Rick continues with his "hard luck" story.

ANOTHER ANGLE

O'Neill gestures to Rick that everything's ready. Rick

immediately jumps to his feet.

Mr. Thomerson pushes O'Neill aside and enters the bedroom.

Mr. Thomerson, in the bedroom, picks up the receiver. As he

does so, a cloud of cocaine falls out of the mouthpiece. He

screams at Rick, gesturing with the phone in his hand as he

dials. Each move produces a large cloud of powder, which

causes him to sniffle slightly.

He starts to react from inhaling the powder. He puts the

receiver to his ear. He takes a deep breath and tries to

dial another number. A large cloud of coke flies up his nose.

He's stunned. He takes another deep drag. He's hooked. He

forgets all about dialing. He jams the receiver against his

nose and takes deep drag after deep drag.

Desiree, still wearing her leather mask, crosses to him and

sits down next to him on the bed. He gives her a big, wide

smile.

O'Neill closes the door.

Everyone starts to whoop it up again.

INT. JAPANESE SUITE

It's still a standoff between the girls and the horny

Japanese.

Debbie opens the bedroom door and motions for the Japanese

to file in.

The Japanese immediately put two and two together and get

orgy. These are some happy fellas as they enter the bedroom.

The Japanese man enters the room. Debbie slams the door shut

behind him.

The girls run out the door.

INT. JAPANESE BEDROOM

Ilene smiles. She has what she wants. She walks into the

bedroom, surrounded by panting Japanese.

She takes a running leap and dives on top of the Japanese.

INT. CORRIDOR

Debbie and the ladies run to an elevator. Debbie presses the

"down" button.

The elevator door opens, revealing the donkey lying flat on

his back. His stiff legs point skyward. The girls see him

and scream. They run down the hall to the stairway. On the

way Debbie notices she's passing Room 1002. She HEARS the

party SOUNDS inside.

She heads for the room angrily. This is a lady out to even a

score.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

As Debbie opens the door, her father walks by with Desiree

on his arm. Neither sees the other. Debbie enters the room.

She is surprised by the masses of humanity rubbing shoulders

with one another in the room.

O'Neill looks over from the other side of the room and spots

her. He isn't fooled for a minute by her wig and mini skirt.

He runs over to Rick.

O'Neill points and Rick sees Debbie. She doesn't see them.

O'Neill crosses to Debbie.

PUSH IN ON Debbie. She's pissed.

INT. BEDROOM

Rick opens the door from the bathroom. The lights are turned

off and from the flashing illumination of a neon sign outside

the window we can MAKE OUT the outline of Debbie's body on

the bed.

Debbie, in a disguised Southern accent, speaks out.

Rick starts to undress. While undressing, he takes on the

persona of Mr. Rodgers. He sings Rodgers' opening theme in

that same sappy, child-like manner of his.

He jumps on top of her and starts mauling her passionately.

Debbie snaps on the lights. She throws off her wig and she

and Rick come face to face.

She all but jumps out of bed.

As Rick protests, she throws on her blouse and runs out of

the room. Rick charges after her.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - MAIN ROOM

The place is wall to wall people.

ANGLE - DEBBIE

She tries to make her way to the exit, but her path is slowed

by all the happy revelers.

Just then Desiree and Mr. Thomerson cross THROUGH FRAME.

She's leading him around by the silver chain, which is now

attached to his neck. She's also carrying a leather whip.

Rick gets up on the sofa and yells loudly over the din.

Everyone stops what they're doing and looks up.

There's a negative response from the crowd.

Everyone responds positively.

All the guests go back to partying. Rick drops off the sofa

and faces Debbie.

She takes him by the hand and crosses into the other bedroom.

INT. OTHER BEDROOM

Rick and Debbie enter. To their surprise they find a man

wearing a leather mask tied to the bed and happily licking

Desiree's boots, which she dangles in front of him. She also

holds a whip over his head. Despite the mask, there is

something very familiar about his face, and the white powder

encrusted all over his nose.

Debbie picks up on this immediately.

Sure enough, Mr. Thomerson looks up and grimaces, knowing

he's been caught with his bondage down. He tries to say

something, but the boot in his mouth prevents anything

intelligent from coming out.

INT. SUITE - MAIN ROOM

The party has reached fever pitch. Suddenly police SIRENS

pierce through the party sounds. Everyone freezes. We HEAR

the Hotel Manager BEATING on the DOOR with his fists.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

The Manager is pounding on the door. By his side are several

UNIFORMED POLICE.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Everyone starts to panic and run for the doors.

He snaps up his clothes from the bedroom.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR

The cops rear back for a run at the door. At that moment the

hotel door opens up and the cops and the Manager are trampled

by Rick, Debbie, Mr. Thomerson, Rick's gang, other guests

and assorted hookers. They run down the stairs. The cops

pick themselves up and give chase. The Manager looks inside

the room and is devastated by what he sees... Hiroshima looked

better after the A-bomb.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

We SEE the police have collared Bobbie, Phoebe, Mrs. Thomerson

and the other ladies of the shower as hooker suspects. Our

bachelor party mob now charges down the stairs and out the

hotel doors.

The cops grab Mr. Thomerson as he tries to get out, and they

throw him in line with the others. Unfortunately for him,

he's standing next to Mrs. Thomerson.

Before he can answer, Mrs. Thomerson checks out his shocking

leather outfit.

He is totally blown away by this as the cops lead them out

of the room.

EXT. HOTEL - MORNING

Our people pile out of the hotel. Rick, Debbie and all Rick's

friends run down the street.

Suddenly a Porsche pulls up between Rick and Debbie. It's

Cole. He reaches over and pulls Debbie into the car with

him. She screams.

He drives off.

They all board the bus.

EXT. CITY STREET

As Cole rounds a corner, a tire comes loose and rolls off

the car -- thanks to Chulo's shoddy workmanship.

INT. PORSCHE

He looks to the rear and sees Rick's bus not far behind them.

Suddenly he spots something O.S. He grabs Debbie and runs

OUT OF FRAME.

EXT. CITY STREET

A city maintenance truck is driving slowly down the center

of the street. A man in the back of the truck is leisurely

placing orange cones in the center line of the road.

Cole, with Debbie in tow, grabs the truck's DRIVER and hauls

him out of his seat. He then places Debbie inside the truck

and him at the wheel. He peels out. Our man with the cones

in the back is unaware of what has happened. He keeps placing

the cones on the street. However, now the truck is hitting

speeds in the upper 70's. The man's leisure pace speeds up.

He rapidly places cones on the road at break-neck speed.

INT. RICK'S BUS

Rick, is plowing into the cones and knocking them all over.

MAINTENANCE TRUCK

Our man with the cones is almost completely exhausted.

EXT. HIGHWAY

Rick is in pursuit, knocking over cones. He's almost caught

up with Cole.

EXT. STREET

The vehicles reach the top of the hill. Cole grabs a sharp

left and pulls into a movie theater parking lot. The maneuver

loses Rick for a second. Rick jams on the brakes and doubles

back into the parking lot.

EXT. MOVIE THEATER PARKING LOT

Cole pulls up with a SCREECH in front of the theater. He

grabs Debbie and jumps out of the truck. He drags her into

the theater entrance.

Rick brings his bus to a stop and he and the gang pour out

of the bus.

They all go running into various theaters.

ANGLE - RYKO

He approaches a theater and sees the title of the movie

playing inside.

Rick chooses a theater and goes inside.

INT. MOVIE THEATER

The patrons are wearing their 3D glasses, watching the action

on the screen. On the movie screen we SEE a man and a woman

arguing. Cole and Debbie enter the theater. They run down to

the front of the screen, heading for an exit. Rick enters.

He gives chase and catches up with Cole.

He takes a swing at Cole and Cole swings back. Behind them

on the screen a man has come to the rescue of the woman.

A fight starts in the movie, also. The patrons sit calmly

watching the action. Miraculously, Rick's fight with Cole is

in perfect sync with the actors in the movie. Rick hits Cole

with a punch that sends him backwards into several movie

patrons. The patrons are impressed by the realism of the

film's special effects. Cole throws a punch. Rick ducks. The

punch hits a MAN in the front row in the mouth.

Rick climbs over several rows and continues to pummel Cole.

Cole grabs a woman's purse and begins to hit Rick with it.

Cole runs out of the aisle as Rick climbs over people and

dives onto Cole, knocking him to the aisle.

As the movie ends, Rick has Cole by the collar and is dragging

him out of the theater.

INT. MALL OUTSIDE THEATER

Rick exits the theater with Cole. He tosses Cole to Chulo.

Debbie comes running behind Rick.

The Patrons are exiting. All of them are very up and excited

by their 3D experience.

A Man who has taken a punch and has had his jacket ripped to

shreds doesn't seem pleased.

EXT. BLUFF - DAY

It's another gorgeous day on the bluff overlooking the ocean.

Just right for Rick and Debbie's wedding. We SEE the wedding

in progress. The area is adorned with flowers.

The many guests are seated and taken in the moment. Among

these are Tracey, Desiree and Gary's she-man, who waves to

Gary as he stands with the other ushers, Chulo, Ryko and

Larry. Chulo is choked up and trying to hide his tears. He

looks over at Laverne, who smiles to him.

Nearby stand the maids of honor, Bobbie, Phoebie and Ilene,

who blows a kiss to her date, Ray (one of the Japanese

businessmen).

The Thomersons sit in the front row. Neither of them is

cherishing this moment.

They sort of smile at each other at the thought.

Father Falwell is almost through with the ceremony. A car

pulls up in the b.g. Exiting the car is Stan and a WOMAN.

O'Neill, the best man, sees the car. He pokes Rick. He

indicates to Rick someone has arrived.

STAN

We SEE the man in the car is Stan. He ushers the lady in the

car to Larry. He's surprised at who she is: his wife.

Larry looks to Rick and gives him a warm smile and a wave.

Rick acknowledges Larry.

They walk off.

FATHER FALWELL

RICK

He turns to Debbie. He waits a beat and begins.

Now it starts to rain.

FATHER FALWELL

He wants this to end. He calls softly to Rick, trying to get

his attention.

People begin to scurry for cover. In the b.g., under a tree,

we SEE Larry and his wife huddled in each other's arms. From

the way they look, they have worked things out.

RICK

He begins to sing the theme from "The Flintstones" with all

the gusto of Jack Jones.

Father Falwell has had enough.

He blesses them lightning fast and springs for his car.

THE SCENE

CREDITS ROLL as Rick continues to sing in the driving rain.

Debbie joins in on the chorus. She loves her man.

Everyone has run for the safety of their cars. Everyone but

the Thomersons, who sit and look on bewildered.

