EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - DAY

To establish.

A school marquee with removable plastic letters reads,

"GOOD LUCK WITH FINALS!" A JANITOR opens the glass and

starts removing the letters.

INT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

POP! A Champagne cork hits the ceiling.

TEACHERS who rarely get to drink at work, jockey for

position, holding out their plastic flutes. (Note:

female teachers outnumber male teachers 12:1.)

PRINCIPAL WALLY SNUR, 40s, balding, faces the teachers.

He has a habit of blinking hard before speaking.

Well, it's been another great year here

at JAMS. Who can forget Mr. Pinkus'

haunted classroom? Sandy, thank you.

SANDY PINKUS, 40s, sporting a ponytail, smiles, clearly

enjoying the small compliment.

I ain't afraid of no ghost.

The other teachers laugh.

Or the wild success of...

VOICE (O.C.)

Wally, can I just say one quick thing?

Wally turns to AMY SQUIRREL, late 20s, cute and

wholesome. Any trace of sexuality she might have is

wiped away by her adult pigtails. She treats students

and adults alike -- like students.

Just wanted to remind everyone the school

day's not over. So let's keep the

drinking under control, hmm? That's it.

Back to you, Wally.

A bunch of teacher roll their eyes.

Thanks, Amy,

(then, back to his notes)

. Or the wild success of the book drive

for the women's prison sponsored by Ms.

Savicki's class?

A broad-shouldered teacher with spiky hair, MS. SAVICKI, nods.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

But now as the summer is upon us, it's

time to not only say goodbye to another

school year, but to also say goodbye to a

member of our faculty.

Elizabeth, can you come up here?

ELIZABETH HALSEY, mid 20s, pretty and petite, walks up to

the front. She sports an enormous diamond ring and dresses

slightly more cosmopolitan than the other teachers.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

You've only been with us for one short

year, but know that you'll always be a

part of the JAMS family.

Elizabeth gives Principal Snur an appreciative smile.

The Teachers lightly applaud.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

And we got you a little something.

Wally hands Elizabeth an envelope. She opens it and.

pulls out a gift card: BOSTON MARKET. $37.

Almost forty dollars. Thank you!

Why don't you say a couple words?

Okay. Um... I'm not really good at this

type of thing so I'll make it quick. I

know I've only been here a year, but

there's so much I'm going to miss...

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Elizabeth sits at her desk, cleaning it out. She's tossing

the few personal effects she has into a banker's box.

3.

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

My students, probably most of all.I'm not

saying they were little angels, butthey

were all there to learn and that'sthe

greatest gift a student can give a teacher.

Elizabeth's class is horsing around, enjoying the last

days of seventh grade.

A dim-looking BOY tentatively approaches her desk with

his yearbook in hand. He hands it to Elizabeth, who

considers what to write for a beat, then smiles as she

signs it.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Elizabeth walks down the hall holding her box.

SIXTH, SEVENTH and EIGHTH graders all race past her,

running toward their summer vacation.

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

And I wish that I had gotten to know all of

you better, but between four classes and

planning a wedding, I had my hands full.

From the little I do know about you, I know

that our students are in good hands.

Elizabeth passes Amy's classroom, where she is carefully

removing inspirational posters from her walls and rolling

them into cardboard tubes.

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - DAY

Three middle school BURNOUTS are smoking weed in a

thicket on the outskirts of the school property.

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

And I can't believe it's all over. This

year flew by. And even though I'll never

teach again professionally, I've realized

that I don't need a blackboard and

classroom to set an example.

Elizabeth comes up behind them.

Hand it over.

The Burnouts' eyes all go wide and they freeze. One of

the burnouts hands her the joint.

Everything.

The kids look at each other and then pull out a bag with

a couple of joints. They hand it over to Elizabeth.

This was a warning. Next time, I don't

call the principal. I call the cops.

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAY

Elizabeth walks to her brand new MERCEDES. She gets in,

pulls out a joint and lights it. She takes a huge TOKE,

and then PEELS out of the lot. She tosses her banker's

box out the window and extends her hand, giving the

school THE FINGER.

ELIZABETH (O.S.)

Woo-hoo!

A couple students look at her strangely.

The dim-looking kid that had Elizabeth sign his yearbook.

He flips to the faculty section, and by the picture of

Elizabeth is her message: "YOU ARE ILLITERATE!"

(struggling to read)

You are... Illit... Illit...

Elizabeth's car comes barrelling toward him and nearly

hits him.

She accelerates into the speed bumps, almost hitting the

JANITOR from the opening shot, who's changing the plastic

letters to read, "HAVE A GREAT SUMMER!"

Slow down!

CHYRON: BAD TEACHER

EXT. TOWNHOUSE NIGHT

A Mercedes with the vanity plate "HIS" is parked in the

driveway of an upscale neighborhood. Elizabeth's matching

Mercedes pulls into the adjacent spot. Her license plate

reads "HERS."

INT. TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

A bachelor pad. Top of the line electronics. Lots of

black leather furniture. Tacky, but expensive.

Elizabeth pours two glasses of wine and takes a long sip.

Baby Doll?

MARK (O.S.)

Coming!

MARK, early 30s, exits the bedroom in his underwear.

He's shaved his head to avoid signs of early balding and

is also a full four inches shorter than Elizabeth.

Thankfully for him, he has money.

Hey! That was a quick party.

Elizabeth kisses Mark on the top of his head and hands

him a glass.

Yeah. You should have seen it. What a

joke.

She raises her glass for a toast. He raises his.

Here's to me never having to work again.

And I owe it all to you, Lover.

Elizabeth takes a big sip.

So I made a reservation at Ruth's Chris,

and then I booked us a suite at the

Drake, and I thought we could finish the

night in "anal alley." Hmm?

Something drops in the bedroom. Mark, alarmed, turns

towards the door. Elizabeth brushes past him into --

INT. TOWNHOUSE - BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Elizabeth enters to find -- NOTHING. Mark follows her in.

Elizabeth looks around -- under the bed, in the closet,

behind the door.

See? Nothing.

Just then, the wooden chest at the foot of the bed SNEEZES.

Elizabeth opens the latch to find SHEILA, 23, dressed only

in a thong, scrunched in the fetal position. She stands,

revealing LARGE FAKE BREASTS, and steps out of the chest.

Motherfucker!

How could you do this to me?!

I'm sorry.

You are buying me the biggest pair of

yellow diamond earrings they make! I'm

talking serious blood diamonds.

Sheila SNEEZES again.

Bless you.

Get out of my house, bitch!

Don't talk to her like that.

Excuse me?

I love her.

Mark puts his arm around Sheila. Elizabeth eyes Sheila's

large breasts.

You love her? She's a hooker.

She's not a hooker. I dance.

Elizabeth takes a deep breath.

Listen, Marky, you made a mistake.

You're human. I'm human. And this time

it was you. Maybe six months from now,

you'll walk in on me. I don't know, but

probably.

Sheila SNEEZES again.

Shut the fuck up.

(then, to Mark, sweet)

And. maybe I'm talking crazy, but I don't

want to throw away our life together over

something like this. We're getting

married! I'm willing to fight for us.

I'm not. And you know why? Because

Sheila loves me -- and not just for my

money.

Sheila squeezes his shoulder.

I'm sorry if I care that my future husband

can support me. We didn't all grow up

with a silver spoon in our mouths. You

can't even imagine what it's like going to

bed hungry, night after night.

What are you talking about?! Both your

parents are CPAs.

My parents worked their asses off to send

me to private school. Do you know what

it's like driving a Pontiac when everyone

else gets a Beemer the second they

menstruate? That shit stays with you.

It's over, Elizabeth.

For the record, there's a shitload of

things that I hate about you, but I still,

would've gotten married.

(beat, sweet)

Because I love you.

(rolls his eyes)

I'm gonna need the ring back.

She grabs her bag and heads for the exit. Mark follows.

You sad little troll! I hope you and

your hooker enjoy chlamydia together!

Elizabeth. The ring.

(not turning around)

I'm not even listening to you anymore.

She starts to open the door. He closes it.

The ring!

Like I even want your gay-ass ring.

She tries pulling it off.

It's not coming off. I'll go to the

jeweler's tomorrow.

Mark takes her hand and removes the ring with ease.

Elizabeth steps out into the night. The door SLAMS

behind her.

CHYRON: 3 MONTHS LATER

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAY

A red 1994 Grand Am with a cracked windshield peels into

the half-empty lot and screeches to a halt. The license

plate reads "HERS."

9.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Elizabeth walks down the empty hall. It's possible a

person has never looked less happy to be anywhere.

FAINT SOFT ROCK plays from an open door. Something from

inside the classroom catches Elizabeth's eye.

(under her breath)

You've gotta be shitting me.

TURN TO REVEAL

The room has been decorated to within an inch of its

life. Every surface is covered with posters like "Noted

African-Americans," or "Hispanic American Hall of Fame,"

or "Women Who Dared." A RED DELICIOUS APPLE has been

placed on each student's desk.

Amy, dressed casually in cargo shorts and texas, is trying

to hang a large "INTEGRITY" poster. She looks over, sees

Elizabeth staring at her, and immediately lights up.

Elizabeth Halsey, as I live and breathe!

Amy Squirrel.

I know we barely got a chance to get to

know one another last year -- what with

you planning the wedding of the century

and me juggling all my extra-currics --

but I just want to say that I'm super

excited to be across-the-hall-mates.

Okay.

And I know you kinda skated by last year,

doing the bare minimum thing -- you were

kind of a lone wolf -- but now you're

back and I just know that you are going

to rededicate yourself to the task at --

Amy notices Elizabeth's bare hands.

Where's your beautiful ring?

My fiance and I broke it off. I found

him in bed with someone else.

Oh my gosh!

It was another man.

Shut the front door!

(motioning for a hug)

Somebody needs a hug.

Somebody doesn't.

Hm. Another time then.

Elizabeth takes an apple from a desk.

These washed?

Of course. I'd never serve a student

unwashed fruit.

CRUNCH. Elizabeth takes a huge bite out of the apple.

I thought the teachers got the apples.

Well, I think the students teach me at

least as'much as I teach them.

Stupid.

Elizabeth tosses the mostly uneaten apple into the trash

and exits. It hits the rim and lands on the floor.

Okey-dokey.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

It's like an asylum -- nothing on the walls. Elizabeth

reads from a stack of US Weekly's and circles pictures of

CELEBRITY BREASTS. LYNN, late 30s, the kind of woman who

spends a lot of time on her internet dating profiles, but

rarely gets emailed, pokes her head in.

Oh sorry, am I interrupting?

Um -- kinda.

Do you want to grab some lunch?

I'm in the middle of something, Lynn.

My treat.

Fine.

EXT. KFC - DAY

Elizabeth and Lynn sit at an outdoor table. Lynn picks at

a garden salad. Elizabeth is eating a bucket of chicken

and drinking a large drink. She pulls a bottle of cough

syrup from her purse and dumps it into her drink.

You have that thing going around, huh?

Are you excited for tomorrow?

Is tomorrow Saturday?

No, it's the first day of school.

Wait, I thought I had a week to get my

class together.

Yeah, that was last week.

(under her breath)

Fuck my ass.

If you hate teaching so much, why don't

you just get another job?

And do what? Sell perfume at the mall?

Work at a day care center?

(slurps her big gulp)

You know, when I first got into teaching,

I thought I was doing it for all the

right reasons: short hours, summers off,

no accountability.

I love my summers. Fresh corn. Mmm.

From now on, my full-time job will be

finding a guy who will take care of me --

Oh god, I pray for that --

And that makes a shit ton of money and

doesn't ask too many questions.

(licking her fingers)

I spent most of my summer hanging out at

the bars near where the Bulls practice.

Had some fun, got some cool souvenirs that

I Ebayed, but those guys aren't looking to

settle down. And they all wear condoms.

And then they take the condoms with them.

That's how paranoid they are that a girl

will try and get pregnant. Like it's so

easy to get pregnant from a guy nutting

into a condom.

You're gonna find someone great.

I've been thinking about it a lot. I mean,

I figure I'm like an 8, 8.5. But once I

get my new tits, I'll probably be a --

13.

You don't want to do that. You're

already so pretty.

I know I'm hot, Lynn, but I don't stand a

chance against all those Barbies dolls

out there. Anna Nicole had it right, may

she rest in peace.

Lynn checks her watch.

We should finish up. Wally's doing that big

orientation for teachers in the auditorium.

Yeah, I'm not going to that.

But it's mandatory.

("I'm so scared")

Ooohhh...

Yeah, I probably won't go either. I

don't know I might. I'll probably go,

but just sit in the back. Maybe leave

early. Maybe stay till the end. Play it

by ear. Or just stay till the end.

Lynn takes both their, trays and dumps them.

This was fun.

Yeah, it was alright. When you said you

were taking me to lunch, I kinda thought it

was going to be nicer, but this was okay.

Sorry.

It's okay. You can get me next time.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Not much character, not many furnishings.

Elizabeth is online looking at a PORN SITE. She stares

at the SCREEN and compares breasts to the ones in US

Weekly. She reaches for a bong and pulls a huge hit.

The front door opens and her roommate, KIRK, early 30s,

boarish and carrying a tattered backpack and a Big Gulp,

walks quickly past Elizabeth.

Hey, Kirk, what do you think about me

with Jessica Simpson's tits?

He stares at her chest intently. She's not bothered by it.

Go bigger.

Kirk enters his bedroom and slams the door.

Cool, yeah.

She glances at the clock: 3:14 AM.

Fuck my ass.

She checks the clock: 5.:15. She groans.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

First day of school excitement. The bell RINGS, and like

rats, the KIDS scurry to their various classes. Before

long, the hallway is empty.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - MORNING

In one corner, CHASE, clearly at the top of the seventh

grade food chain, shows off a photo spread of herself

modelling in a "Western-Style" clothing catalogue.

GARRETT, 12, wearing grey, stained sweatpants and a grey

sweatshirt with block letters that read "GYMNASTICS,"

stares longingly at Chase from a few desks away.

15.

The photographer was, like, sooo nice.

He made me feel sooo comfortable.

I might get flown to Kansas City for

their fashion week.

Oh my.

Chase and her friends turn to face Garrett, who's as

surprised as they are that he spoke.

Stalk much?

Garrett quickly turns away. Chase rolls her eyes. An

angry-looking kid, TRISTAN, wearing a MICHAEL VICK

JERSEY, turns to Garrett.

Faggot.

Bless you.

What'd you say to me?

Elizabeth, with large bags under her eyes, enters the

class. Tristan, on a dime, heads back to his seat.

The class immediately quiets down. SASHA, 12, dressed

like a paralegal, walks up to Elizabeth with a large

Tupperware tray.

Hi, I'm Sasha. It's a pleasure to meet

you.

(handing over tupperware)

My mother baked these for you.

(not looking up)

Just leave them on the desk.

Sasha, confused, gently puts them down and stands there.

After a moment, Elizabeth looks up.

You need something?

16.

- Sasha shakes her head and retreats to her desk at the

front of the class.

Anyone here seen "Stand and Deliver?"

Show of hands.

(off their blank stares)

No one? Edward James Olmos? Wow.

Elizabeth takes a DVD from her bag. She points to two

KIDS in the front of the class.

You and you, go grab the TV and roll it

up front.

(pointing to Sasha)

And you, go shut off the lights.

The two kids, SHAWN and SPENCER, roll the TV over. Sasha

shuts off the LIGHTS.

We're watching a movie on the first day?

I think it's awesome. You rock.

I agree with Chase.

Elizabeth pops in the DVD. "Stand and Deliver," starring

Edward James Olmos as a tough-as-nails calculus teacher

in an inner-city school begins. Elizabeth takes a bite

of one of Sasha's cookies and immediately spits it out.

Ugh. Oatmeal raisin?

She pushes the Tupperware tray into the trash next to her

desk. Sasha looks on, sadly.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - CAFETERIA - DAY

Lunch is in full swing. Each clique has staked its own

territory. Several TEACHERS, Elizabeth and Amy among

them, are on lunch duty.

GARRETT, sitting alone, writing in a journal. Tristan,

the bully, tosses a bowl of cole slaw at Garrett.

Incoming!

Direct hit. The cole slaw nails him in the shoulder.

Garrett picks some of the cole slaw off his shirt and

eats it. He continues writing. Amy races over to

Tristan and writes him up.

Elizabeth watches, bored, struggling to keep her eyes

open. Amy heads over to Elizabeth.

Somebody's got a case of the sleepies.

Did you see what just happened?

Yeah, that one kid hit the other kid with

the cole slaw.

You weren't at the orientation the other

day, but we're doing something new this

year. It's very exciting. We're

splitting the cafeteria into quadrants.

Elizabeth yawns.

So, anyways, in order for the quadrant

system to work, it's vital that each

teacher maintain order within their

quadrant. Because it's really tough for

me as head lunch monitor -- or another

teacher -- to leave their quadrant to

discipline a kid in another quadrant. I

know it's a lot to take in. I'd be happy

to sit with-you after school and explain

all of the new guidelines.

Tell you what. Why don't you send me a

memo, and if I have any questions, I'll

come to you.

Okay, Elizabeth. Sounds like a plan,

Stan.

18.

Oh, I meant to ask you. Did I hear that

you were showing a movie this morning?

How do I know what you heard?

Fair enough. Listen, I don't want to

tell you how to run your class, but maybe

it might be fun to do some ice-breakers.

Like "Telephone Charades" or "The String

Game." Or start doing practice questions

for the state test. It's never too soon

to start.

Are we gonna have a problem, me and you?

Oh, shishkebobs, no. If I gave you that

impression, I am so sorry. Actually, I

was really hoping that we could be more

than across-the-hall-mates.

I don't know what you've heard, but I

don't munch box.

No, of course not. I don't even know

what that is. I just meant friends.

Like getting manicures and going shopping

on Sundays? Shit like that?

Yes! Yes! And helping each other out.

Looking out for one another.

That's cool. Tell you what, friend, I'm

gonna get going. Cover for me?

Elizabeth doesn't wait for an answer, walks off.

But you can't leave. Lunch doesn't end

for another...

(looks at clock)

19.

Seven minutes. Who's going to watch your

quadrant?

INT. AMY'S CLASSROOM - LATER

Empty. Elizabeth looks around and spots the "INTEGRITY"

poster on the wall. She walks over and studies it.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Elizabeth walks down the hallway with the rolled up

poster. She. passes a man, obviously lost, looking at a

map. This is SCOTT, 30. Handsome in a wholesome way.

Elizabeth walks by as he looks up at her helplessly. She

turns on her heels. Fresh fish.

Hi there. You look a little lost.

Hi. Can you tell me where Room 124 is?

I'll do you one better. I'll take you

there.

Oh, you don't have to do that.

Will you stop? It'd be my pleasure.

Thanks! I feel like I've been walking

around in circles for the last fifteen

minutes.

Scott Delacorte. I'm the new sub.

Elizabeth Halsey, 7th Grade Language

Arts. Welcome, welcome.

They shake hands a beat too long. Elizabeth notices

Scott's VERY EXPENSIVE WATCH.

Helluva watch. What's that -- a Jaeger-

LeCoultre?

Good eye!

Thanks. I love men's watches. It's kind

of a hobby.

It's a bummer knowing my watch could feed

a village for .a year, but my grandfather

designed it, so...

Oh? Your grandfather designs watches?

The family business. My mom's maiden

name is Jaeger.

Shut up!

My parents had a minor meltdown when I

decided to join the Peace Corps and

become a teacher. But they've been cool

about it.

Elizabeth smiles and they start walking down the hall.

Integrity.

(pointing to poster)..

The poster. "Integrity." What a great

message for the kids.

That's why I got it.

They turn a corner. Garrett wheels his backpack past them.

Hey, Ms. Halsey!

Hey... dude...

She slaps him five. Scott notices, smiles.

21.

Man, I can't wait for the day that I have

my own classroom.

Yeah... So did you and your wife just

move to town?

I'm not married.

Me neither. I was engaged until I walked

in on my fiance cheating on me. With his

brother.

That's horrible!

Ooh, 124! This is me.

Nice to meet you, Scott Delacourte.

Hopefully, we'll be seeing a lot of each

other.

Only if a teacher gets sick. Great

meeting you, Elizabeth Halsey.

He heads into the room. Elizabeth cocks her head,

checking out his ass as the door closes.

Very nice meeting you.

A PAIR OF PERFECT FAKE BREASTS. A hand cups them from

underneath.

Pull back to reveal DR. VOGEL, 40s, and his receptionist,

DANNI, probably in her 40s, with her shirt off. Elizabeth

watches, rapt.

DR. VOGEL

As you can see, the weight is evenly

distributed and there's minimal scarring.

Dr. Vogel.

DR. VOGEL

(holding out his hands)

"Best Hands in Chicago."

DR. VOGEL

Absolutely. Take them for a spin.

Elizabeth reaches out, squeezes Danni's breasts.

Wow. And the nipples are just... I love

them. I'll take two.

They all laugh. Elizabeth notices Dr. Vogel'.s watch.

Maurice Lacroix. That's a great watch.

And how's that going?

DR. VOGEL

She's my rock.

Alright, thanks, Danni.

Danni puts her bra and blouse back on and exits.

DR. VOGEL (CONT'D)

So, Elizabeth, have you given any thought

to size?

I was thinking, you know, maybe a D.

DR. VOGEL

IJh huh, uh huh. I ,would say, though,

with your frame, you might consider

something smaller. A large B, maybe a C

cup. You'd be surprised how significant

those would look.

Hmm. Yeah, I think I'll go with the D's,

really turn some heads.

23.

DR. VOGEL

You know, Elizabeth, breast enhancement's

not a cure-all. I just want to make sure

you have realistic expectations.

Doctor, I lost my fiance to a woman with

monster fake tits. So now I need monster

fake tits so that I won't lose my next

fiance. Those are my expectations. Is

that realistic enough for you?

DR. VOGEL

Very good then.

INT. DR. VOGEL'S OFFICE - RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Elizabeth leans over the counter and grabs a mint from a

small bowl. Danni sits behind her desk wearing a headset.

So you'll be off your feet for about two

weeks... what works for you?

Let's do December 19th. Start of winter

break.

The 19th it is. So the total is $9300

for the surgery plus one night stay at

our facility. How would you like to pay?

Elizabeth laughs. Danni laughs.

That's absurd. What if I don't spend the

night at your facility?

The night's included in the price. Did

you not read our literature?

No.

A MIDDLE-AGED DOCTOR walks by.

(flirtatious, to doctor)

Hi...

(then, back to Danni)

Listen, I'm a teacher, not a drug dealer.

24.

We accept all major credit cards.

My credit situation is complicated.

I'm sorry, but if you can't pay, I can't

schedule the appointment.

You know, there are less expensive

options. Have you looked into South

America?

I'll be back.

Elizabeth dramatically scoops a handful of mints from the

bowl and storms out.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Elizabeth, her cell phone cradled to her ear, pulls a

LEAN CUISINE out of a freezer STOCKED with them.

Look, I just really need some money.

It's, for a surgery I need.

Elizabeth pokes holes in the Lean Cuisine with a knife

and turns on the microwave.

Yes, as a matter of fact, it is about my

breasts, dad.

Sorry. Happy belated birthday. So, can you

wire me some money or not?

EXT. SUBURBAN HOME - NIGHT

Elizabeth walks up a driveway and looks around.

(on phone, whispering)

So I won't beat around the bush, Grammy.

She pulls the kitchen knife from her bag and SLASHES the

back tire of a late-model CAMRY.

25.

(on phone, whispering)

I'm dying and I need money for surgery.

Really? Nothing? Don't you get social

security or something?

Elizabeth goes around to another tire. Slash.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - LATER

Elizabeth is still on the phone. CLOSE ON her computer

screen. Her checking account balance: $45.66.

(into phone, losing patience)

Listen, limpdick, you owe me for breaking

off the engagement. Do you know how

embarrassing that was?!

Lover, I don't want to fight. It's just

10000 dollars and it would really mean

the world to me. Lover? You there?

Elizabeth hurls her phone at the wall. It smashes.

Fucking Troll!

Kirk pokes his head out of his bedroom.

Did you call my name?

No. I said 'fucking troll.'

Oh, I thought you said Kirk.

He turns and heads back in to his room.

Hey, you got ten grand?

Nope.

Kirk closes his door. After a beat, he opens it.

Also, I might be a little short on the

rent this month. Like, a lot short.

He closes his door. The microwave BEEPS. Dinner's ready.

INT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

Elizabeth and Lynn speak in hushed voices in the corner

by a vending machine. Amy grades papers on a ratty-

looking couch. She glances up at Elizabeth and Lynn.

I don't know. That's a lot of money.

I know. And I hate asking a friend for

money -- especially as good a friend as you.

This has its desired effect on Lynn.

Maybe I could sell that jewelry my

grandmother gave me?

That turquoise crap? Blech. No one's

buying that.

(then, catching herself)

But it looks great on you.

Thanks. What about Mark?

What type of person do you think I am?!

That assbag cheated on me. Did I ever

tell you that he has a mole on the tip of

his dick?

I'm just trying to better myself. I

don't think that's asking for so much.

Amy walks over.

'Scuse,me. Just gonna scooch in here.

She drops quarters into the vending machine, but doesn't

bother selecting an item. This was clearly her "in."

She turns to Elizabeth and Lynn.

Sooo... I know it's none of my business,

but I couldn't help but overhear your

conversation and I just want to say, that

you shouldn't change a thing. You should

be happy with the way you are.

That's true.

Huh. Well, do you think mental retards

should be happy with the way they are?

Amy stammers.

Lynn, you teach them. What do you think?

I've never asked them.

I would never --

We don't all have your tits, Squirrel.

So maybe you should think before you

interrupt a private conversation.

I guess that's what you get for trying to

help...

Amy pushes the coin release on the vending machine and

takes back her change without getting a drink. Amy heads

back to the couch.

That's right. Walk away.

(then, noticing)-

There he is!

Scott enters. All of the female teachers light up.

There he is!

Well, look what the cat dragged in!

I wish it was under better circumstances.

Stu Riley's car was vandalized last

night. Right in his driveway.

Gang members, probably.

The public school system failed them.

Elizabeth and Amy nod vigorously.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

An empty hallway.

JOE CLARK (V.0.)

So forget about the way it used to be.

This is not a damn democracy! We are in

a state of emergency and my word is law!

There's only one boss around here, and

that's me. The HNIC.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The class is watching "Lean on Me," with Morgan Freeman as

a tough-as-nails principal in an inner-city school. Amy's

"Integrity" Poster now hangs above the TV.

MR. O'MALLEY (ON TV)

HNIC?

MS. LEVIAS (ON TV)

Head Nigger In Charge.

The bell RINGS.

We'll pick this up again tomorrow.

The students shuffle out. Garrett hustles after Chase.

Quite a film, huh?

Chase gives him a weird look and then exits with her friends.

Sasha lingers by Elizabeth's desk.

29.

(without looking up)

What.

I'm a student leader for the D.C. trip --

Shocker.

And we're having our car wash this

weekend. If you're around, maybe we

could wash your car.

I've got some Mexicans who already do it

for nothing.

It's for a good cause. This year, we're

trying to get some extra money so that we

can go on a Duck Tour!

She hands Elizabeth a flyer. Elizabeth glances at it.

Last year's seventh grade raised $6000.

$6000?

INT. J.A.M.S. - ADMINISTRATION BULLPEN - DAY

Elizabeth walks past the SCHOOL SECRETARY toward the

Principal's office.

You can't go in there. He's with a

student.

Elizabeth ignores her, adjusts her blouse, and enters.

INT. J.A.M.S. - PRINCIPAL SNUR'S OFFICE - DAY

The office is decorated with a DOLPHIN motif. Figurines,

a picture of Principal Snur kissing a dolphin. Dolphin

calendars. This guy loves dolphins.

Principal Snur sits next to ARKADY, a small pale kid.

30.

If you don't like to get wet, Arkady, you

could try using deodorant, anti-.

perspirant, maybe some cologne. I know a

lot of the older boys are wearing the

body spray.

Bodish spray.

Elizabeth enters and immediately recoils from the smell.

Blugh!

Arkady and Principal Snur both look up. He holds up his

finger -- "one minute." Elizabeth notices his cheap

dolphin watch.

So why don't you think about that and

I'll let your teachers know that you're

working on it?

Arkady nods and quickly exits.

Sorry, I didn't realize you were in with

anyone.

We were just finishing up. Elizabeth, I

actually meant to talk to you. Did I

hear that you were showing movies all

last week?

Um... some clips, maybe. I think in a lot,

of ways, movies are the new books.

Huh.

Elizabeth tries a different tact. She picks up a dolphin-

shaped clock from the desk.

Is this new? I love it! I think

dolphins are smarter than humans.

Me too! And if you like that, you'll

love this.

31.

Principal Snur pulls out an "Adopt-A-Dolphin"

certificate.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT`D)

He lives in the Cayman Islands.

What a great story.

Principal Snur visibly relaxes. He's sitting across from

a kindred spirit.

So what else is new?

Actually, I was thinking that I want to

get more involved.

What a nice surprise.

Specifically, I thought I could supervise

the car wash.

Amy's been running it the last two years...

She just does so much. It might be nice

to give her a little rest. Especially

that early on a Saturday.

I'm so happy that you're dedicating

yourself and becoming a real member of

the JAMS family.

It just feels so good to help.

MATCH CUT TO:

INT. J.A.M.S. - PRINCIPAL SNUR'S OFFICE - DAY

Amy stands in the door where Elizabeth was just standing.

Principal Snur is behind his desk.

Elizabeth?! For the seventh grade

carwash? That's bonkers!

32.

Amy immediately regrets saying "bonkers."

I'm sorry. I didn't mean to blow my stack.

I just thought it was nice to see some

other teachers step up.

We raised over $6000 last year. That's a

record. Is this really the best time to

start experimenting?

Amy, I see you taking on a.lot of

responsibility, what with directing

"Annie" and all your work with D.A.R.E.

I'd just hate to see you get overwhelmed

like you did in 2004.

She stares at him -- clearly, this is a touchy subject.

Of course. Well, I should skedaddle.

Looks like someone needs to plan a

Saturday morning bike ride.

She turns on her heels and walks out.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAWN

Elizabeth is asleep. Her ALARM goes off. It's 5:45 AM.

She opens her eyes, sees the time, considers for a beat,

then hits SNOOZE. She closes her eyes. - After a beat,

the ALARM goes off again. She hits SNOOZE.

Quick Cuts. Elizabeth hits the snooze button EVERY NINE

MINUTES until 8:45. She stares at the clock.

EXT. TEACHER'S PARKING LOT - MORNING

Garrett stands at the school entrance, holding a giant

cardboard sign that reads "CAR WASH" as a few CARS pull in.

Chase, and the other popular girls, are dressed in

seventh-grade sexy -- they've tied off their shirts.

The BOYS run around spraying each other, but mostly

spraying Garrett. Garrett laughs, mistakenly thinking

that he's part of the fun.

Oh, I'm gonna get you guys!

A couple of PARENT CHAPERONES stand in small clusters.

Tristan, the bully, cocks his arm and aims a soapy sponge

at Garrett.

Whoa.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS Tristan's gaze. ELIZABETH steps out

of her car. She's wearing HIGH HEELS, DAISY DUKES and a

BIKINI TOP. She looks both spectacular and ridiculous.

A couple of PARENTS look over at Elizabeth, in shock.

(calling to Parents)

Sorry I'm late.

(to other PARENTS)

I'm going to say something about her

outfit.

The MOTHERS vigorously nod in agreement. A DAD pipes in.

(staring hard at Elizabeth)

Well, if it helps raise money...

The other DADS vigorously nod in agreement.

BEGIN CAR WASH MONTAGE:

--Elizabeth holds the "Carwash" sign. A LINE of CARS

forms. An OLDER MAN in an immaculately clean CADILLAC,

rolls down his window and hands her money.

--Elizabeth washes in SLO MO, shakes out her hair as she

gets WET. The BOYS and their FATHERS stare at her.

--The GIRLS try to mimic Elizabeth's seductive behavior.

Their MOTHERS run over and pull them away.

--The Older Man in the Cadillac comes back to have his

car re-washed.

34.

EXT. TEACHER'S PARKING LOT - LATER

The carwash is wrapping up. Elizabeth counts money at a

makeshift table and puts the earnings into a metal

lockbox. She glances around and then shoves a large

clump of cash into her DAISY DUKES.

VOICE (O.S.)

What are you doing?

Elizabeth looks up and sees Sasha hiding behind a TRUCK,

clearly spying.

Nothing. Get out of here, Dummy.

Are you stealing our money?

How dare you?! I'm here early on a

Saturday for you guys. And for the

record, nobody likes a tattle tale.

I haven't tattled. Yet.

Good. Cause if you do, I'll deny it and

flunk your ass. How will that look on

your resume?

I didn't say I would say anything.

Alright then. Now beat it. I've gotta

finish counting this money.

Sasha walks off. Elizabeth picks up a hose and sprays her.

See you Monday!

Elizabeth waves to SASHA'S MOTHER, who eagerly waves

back.

ANY, across the street, watching through binoculars.

She's straddling her bike and is wearing a helmet and a

sheen of recently-applied suntan lotion. She takes a sip

from her Camelbak, and pedals away.

35.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

CLOSE ON a fish bowl with a crude sign that reads "New

Tits." Elizabeth drops in fistfuls of crumpled cash and

then writes in a notebook: $1300.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Amy walks down the hall. She sees Principal Snur slip

into the bathroom. Amy walks up to the MEN'S FACULTY

BATHROOM door and waits. The BELL RINGS.

Shishkebobs.

She hesitates a beat and then enters.

INT. J.A.M.S. - MEN'S FACULTY BATHROOM - DAY

Wally is in a stall reading a brochure for a DOLPHIN TOUR.

Amazing.

AMY (O.S.)

Wally? Are you in here? It's Amy

Squirrel.

He instinctively covers himself with the brochure.

Amy? What are you doing? Get out!

Amy standing inside. She scrunches her nose at the smell.

This'll just take a sec. I thought you

might want to know that Elizabeth Halsey

showed up at the carwash in a bikini top and

short-shorts. It was pretty racy stuff.

Can we talk about this later?

(quoting some adage)

"Later we'll all die, said the gator to

the fly."

36.

Another TEACHER walks past Amy, looking confused. He

hesitates and then goes into an adjoining stall.

Look, Josh Gershman's dad called and said

that the carwash was a huge success. And

Lauren Rissman's dad called and said the

kids had a great time.

I don't want to speak out of school, but

I happened to be pedalling by and saw her

get.pretty chummy with the money. ,And

remember, we barely know anything about

her. She was a real lone wolf last year.

Are you accusing Elizabeth of embezzling

from the seventh grade car wash?

Something about this doesn't pass the

smell test, Wally.

Well, they raised over $7000, so whatever

she did worked. And next time you accuse

a fellow teacher of stealing, you better

be damn sure. We're done here.

Amy takes a deep breath. Her face is BEET RED.

Thanks for the pep talk. Have a super

day, you two.

Amy exits. Immediately, there is an IMMENSE ERUPTION

from the other stall, followed by a sigh.

MALE TEACHER (O.S.)

Christ... I thought she was never going

to leave.

INT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

Sandy, the math teacher with the ponytail, sits at the

table grading papers. Another TEACHER dozes in the corner.

(entering, very friendly)

Hey! Are those new Doc Marten's?

Sandy looks behind him at the dozing teacher. "Is she

talking to me?"

Guilty.

How's Period 5?

Great, thanks for asking. We got a new

bassist and we finally got a regular gig,

which is nice because it's earned. It's

time to show the world that a bunch of

teachers can really rock out.

Awesome!

Hey, would you mind grabbing me my yogurt

from the fridge?

Sure thing.

Sandy goes to the fridge. Elizabeth pulls visine from

her bag, and as his head goes into the fridge, she

squirts the entire container into his coffee mug.

You should come to one of our shows.

He hands her the yogurt.

Oh, I can't.

Elizabeth exits. Sandy sadly takes a sip of his coffee.

I didn't even tell you the dates.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Elizabeth's class is seated. They're staring at her,

waiting for her to begin.

Are we starting "School Ties" today?

Elizabeth holds up her finger while she finishes reading a

NATIONAL GEOGRAPHIC.

38.

The camera ANGLES to show that she is studying a picture

of a topless AFRICAN TRIBESWOMAN with large breasts.

After a beat, Elizabeth looks up.

Alright, today, we're starting "School

Ties." Classic.

(then, pointing to a Student)

You, shut off the lights.

Elizabeth goes to the DVD player. There's a knock at the

door and the SCHOOL SECRETARY walks in holding a box.

She hands it to a confused Elizabeth.

Here it is. Good luck.

Here what is?

It's the pre-test for the state

standardized test. It was in the memo.

Oh, yes. In the memo.

The Secretary leaves. Elizabeth stares at the box.

Tristan and.a couple kids start making farting noises

with their hands.

Hey. Zip it. Zip your shit.

Alright, look, we all know these tests

are gay --

Elizabeth turns to a student who COULD BE GAY.

Hey.

Elizabeth passes the box to the front of the class, where

the kids dutifully take Scan-trons and test booklets.

ELIZABETH.(CONT'D)

(then, reading)

According to this memo, I'm supposed to

give you forty-five minutes per section.

Blah blah blah. Clear your desks,

pencils out and -- begin!

Twenty-five pencils hit paper in unison.

39.

Elizabeth takes the TV and swivels it to face her desk.

She turns on the movie, turns down the volume (just a

little bit) and reclines.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - CAFETERIA - DAY

Chase and another popular girl strut across the

cafeteria, arm in arm. A THIRD POPULAR GIRL, saving a

table, waves them over.

Chase and her friend walk right past the girl like she

doesn't exist and take a seat with a bunch of other girls.

ELIZABETH (O.S.)

Little bitches.

TURN TO REVEAL

Elizabeth and Lynn on lunch duty.

The girl at the table starts BAWLING. Amy, also on duty,

races over to console her.

What a phony.

Major phony. But she also cares a lot, too.

So what's going on with your boobs?

Shit. Shit is going on with my boobs. I'm

never gonna get married. I'm gonna die

broke. I should just blow my brains out.

(then, lighting up)

There he is!

Scott walks down the ramp and HIGH-FIVES a bunch of kids.

He gives them a big wave.

I love how his eyes sparkle when he smiles.

I want to sit on his face.

Hey, guys.

You're really making a habit out of this.

40.

Ha, yeah. Actually, Sandy Pinkus in the Math

department, I guess he got that stomach bug

that's been going around and I got the call.

I heard he pooped himself in first

period. A kid had to walk him to the

nurse.

Lynn, would you mind grabbing me a milk?

Elizabeth gives her a "can you get out of here?" look.

Scott, do you want anything?

I'm good, thanks for asking.

Lynn walks off.

So, Scott --

Lynn comes back.

Sorry, what kind of milk do you want?

Skim? Whole? 2%? Chocolate?

I don't know. Surprise me.

Okay, I'll get you skim. No, no, 2%.

Lynn walks off again.

She's funny.

Elizabeth notices Amy looking at her as she continues to

console the girl. Elizabeth turns back to Scott.

So, Scott, I was thinking, I would love to

hear about your experiences in the Peace

Corps. I love Haiti. Maybe we could go

grab a drink some night. Maybe tonight.

Isn't it Back-to-School Night?

41.

(news to her)

Yeah, Silly, I meant after.

Cool! Let's get a group together.

Yeah, definitely! Or just the two of us.

Scott looks around, then lowers his voice.

Oh. Um, listen, I'm really flattered.

You're one of the nicest people I've met

here. But... I'm actually seeing

someone.

Oh?

Yeah, we've been keeping it quiet.

Because she's ugly?

No. She's beautiful. She's great. She

really cares about the kids. It's

just... when you're dating a co-worker...

Squirrel?

Elizabeth whips around to see Amy, who's now sharing a

frozen yogurt with the formerly bawling girl. Amy looks

up, smiles and gives a thumbs up to Elizabeth and Scott,

signalling that everything's okay with the girl. Elizabeth

NOTICES Amy's LARGE BREASTS straining against her blouse.

She quietly seethes.

Anyways, thanks again for asking me out.

I'm honored. And I'll take a raincheck

on that group date. See ya!

Scott crosses through the cafeteria. Lynn returns with a

four cartons of milk.

Here you go. I got you one of each.

42.

Lynn hands them to Elizabeth, who takes them, drops them

in the trash and storms off.

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - NIGHT

At night, under the stars, the SCHOOL looks peaceful, serene.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth is up front. She's staring,at the PARENTS.

They stare right back at her. It's awkwardly silent for

a beat too long.

Hi, my name's Elizabeth Halsey.

Soooooo... Any questions?

Sasha's Mother eagerly raises her hand. Elizabeth points

to her.

Hi, I'm Sasha's mother. We waved to each

other at the carwash. I'm a little

concerned with the importance you're

placing on movies. What about the state

test?

Elizabeth points to her sign on the wall -- "Don't

Question My Authority."

That's exactly what I say to my students.

Listen, I'm a good teacher. And the school

hired me because I'm good at what I do.

(as the parents take this in)

And the reason your son loves my class is

because I inspire him. Movies are one

tool that I use. I also use other

multimedia techniques, which I'm not

going to get into right now. Look, I

could take you day by day through my

entire syllabus, but that's not how I do

things. I'm not one of these stuffy

teachers who's totally by the book. I

talk to the kids like they're little

adults. It's about mutual respect. So

that's my spiel, as the Jews say.

Help yourselves to some delicious snacks

and drinks in the back. Class dismissed.

They head to the back of the class. ANGLE ON

A "refreshments" table. A lonely package of OREOS rests

against a PITCHER OF TAP WATER.

Elizabeth tries to sneak out the door, but is stopped by

a sharply dressed PARENT.

Excuse me, Ms. Halsey.

I'm Chris' dad.

From Elizabeth's reaction, she clearly has no idea who

Chris is.

Chris... Great kid -- and precocious.

You must be so proud.

Oh, what a relief. I just wish his

grades would reflect it.

If I know Chris, he'll get there.

Listen, I know you have a full plate, but

if you could keep an eye on Chris, my

wife and I would really appreciate it.

Chris' dad shakes her hand. Elizabeth opens her hand,

sees a tightly folded HUNDRED DOLLAR bill. She looks

back up at Chris' dad.

CHRIS' DAD (CONT'D)

For supplies. Or whatever.

JUMP CUT TO:

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Elizabeth stands with another set of parents. They're

eating Oreos and sipping water.

You're Chase's parents? Great kid -- and

precocious. You must be so proud.

The parents beam.

A student like that would benefit so much

from some extra attention.

You think we should hire a tutor?

(then, to Chase's Dad)

I told you.

I'd be happy to do it myself. It's just

hard in a class of twenty-five.

Oh, to be a teacher.

It's just so hard, on my salary, having to

pay for my supplies, my fiance cheated on

me with his twin sister... and, unlike a

lot of these other teachers, all I truly

care about is helping your child learn.

And as their personal tutor, I guarantee a

full grade higher -- or your money back.

Chase's mom takes out her check book.

Make it out to "cash."

JUMP-.CUT TO:

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - LATER

Parents are leaving the class, ad-libbing "thank.you's."

Another SET OF PARENTS surreptitiously hand Elizabeth

some cash.

A Bohemian mother, MELODY, wearing a beret, lingers behind.

Excuse me, Ms. Halsey. I just wanted to

introduce myself. I'm Melody. Garrett's

mom.

Nice to meet you... Garrett's a great kid

-- and precocious. You must be so proud.

45.

Oh, you're referring to his poetry.

Thank you.

You must be so proud.

I am. So so so so so proud. So proud.

A kid like that, if I could just give some

more one on one time, he would just blossom.

I'm so happy to hear you say that.

would really benefit from that.

Unfortunately, in a class of twenty-

five...

Ugh. Class sizes are ridiculous.

And with the amount they pay teachers...

Thank god you love what you do.

I guess what I'm getting at is, maybe you

could help out by giving me a little --

you know -- somethin somethin.

Elizabeth offers her hand, palm up. Melody stares back

at her blankly.

It's just, it's really tough to teach the

way that I want to teach when there's so

little money. I mean, look at this place.

You know what I'm going to do for you?

Melody opens her pocketbook. Elizabeth smiles.

I am going to start a letter-writing

campaign to the school board, to my

congressman, to the mayor -- and keep

writing until you get what you deserve.

She opens her date book and writes herself a note.

And I'm writing myself a reminder!

Melody pulls Elizabeth into a warm hug.

You are a saint.

Melody exits. Elizabeth is left in the classroom by

herself.

So long, Crazy.

As Elizabeth pulls out the CASH she just made, we hear

the opening beats of COOLIO'S "GANGSTER'S PARADISE."

INT. J.A.M.S. - ADMINISTRATION BULLPEN - DAY

The SONG continues. Elizabeth pokes her head in. The

office is empty. She walks in, grabs the "Lost and

Found" box and exits.

INT. THRIFT STORE - DAY

The SONG continues. Elizabeth stands across from a

HIPPIE-LOOKING GIRL. The pile of "Lost and Found"

clothes are laid out on the counter. The Hippie Girl

hands Elizabeth some cash.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

The SONG continues as Elizabeth throws more money in her

"New Tits" jar and enters a new amount into her notebook.

The new balance: $1473.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

"Gangster's Paradise" CONTINUES and we see that the class

is now watching "Dangerous Minds" with Michelle Pfeiffer

as a tough-as-nails teacher in an inner-city school.

INT. AMY'S CLASSROOM - SAME

The SONG continues as Amy, in her empty classroom, stands

against the adjoining wall, her ear pressed to it.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - ANOTHER DAY

The SONG continues. The class is still watching

"Dangerous Minds." There's some NOISE in the hall.

Elizabeth PAUSES the movie, STOPPING the song. She leans

into the hall.

Enough with the commotion!

The hallway goes silent. She comes back in and UNPAUSES

the movie. The SONG comes back on.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

The SONG continues as the hallway fills with excited

kids, who race down the hall and talk animatedly with

friends. Elizabeth pushes through the center.

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAY

The SONG continues. Elizabeth sits in her car. She lights

a joint with the cigarette lighter and deeply inhales.

KNOCK KNOCK! The SONG abruptly ENDS.

Elizabeth jumps. She turns to her window, sees Sasha,

bundled in her winter coat, waving.

(through the window)

What do you want?

Sasha motions for her to roll down the window. Elizabeth

doesn't.

Is that marijuana?

It is. But it's medicinal. Doctor gave

it to me. Not that it's any of your

business.

48.

Oh, okay. Feel better.

My mom and I made you holiday cookies. Here.

Sasha pulls out a tupperware container.

(peering through window)

Are those oatmeal raisin?

Sugar.

Elizabeth considers, then manually rolls down the window

a crack. She grabs the container and quickly closes her

window. Elizabeth starts eating a cookie.

You have anything to drink?

Sasha shakes her head.

Word to the wise: stop dressing like

you're running for congress.

I don't want to run for congress. I want

to be president.

See? That's what I'm talking about.

Keep saying stuff like that, you're gonna

get punched. You really want to be

President or is that what your parents

tell to be?

Sasha shrugs.

You don't have to decide right now. Who

knows? Maybe you wake up one day and

decide that you love giving massages and

you want to be a masseuse. Salary plus

tips. Think about it.

If I think about it, will I get extra

credit?

(shakes her head)

Hopeless. Watch your feet.

49.

Elizabeth reverses. Sasha jumps away from the car.

Elizabeth peels out, passing the school marquee that

reads, "Happy Holidays, Jammers! See you in '09!"

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - DAY

Elizabeth rolls over. It's 3:40 PM. She yawns and gets

out of bed.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - DAY

QUICK CUTS. Elizabeth opens her refrigerator. Nothing

except ketchup packets, mustard packets and soy sauce

packets.

She reaches for her bong and tries lighting it. Once.

Twice. She shakes the lighter. No luck.

She carries the bong to the stove, turns on the stove,

and tries lighting it from there. No luck.

Seriously?

EXT. LIQUOR STORE - AFTERNOON

Elizabeth walks up to the door. It's locked. She shakes

the door.

Seriously?

She sees a HOMELESS GUY leaning against the storefront.

Why's the store closed?

The Homeless Guy looks at her strangely.

It's Christmas.

Seriously?

Elizabeth looks around. The streets are empty. Not a

person in sight.

Merry Christmas!

Whatever.

(then, stops)

Hey, you got a lighter?

I don't smoke. It's bad for you.

Elizabeth walks back to her car, empty-handed. A MINI-

VAN passes. Stops. Reverses..

The window rolls down. It's Garrett and his Mom.

Ms. Halsey! Hey, it's me, Garrett!

Merry Christmas, Ms. Halsey!

Having a nice Christmas?

What are you doing the rest of the day?

Going to see your family?

I'm probably going to meet up with some

people. We're having a big potluck, so...

Elizabeth-shuffles her feet.

Ms. Halsey.

(then, extremely maternal)

Elizabeth. Would you like to have

Christmas with us?

INT. GARRETT'S HOUSE - DINING ROOM - DAY

Cozy and unpretentious. Filled with crafts. Elizabeth sits

next to Melody and across from Garrett, who's wearing his

"Gymnastics" sweatshirt, and his TWO AUNTS, both divorced.

Elizabeth tears through a plate of Christmas cuisine.

This is a real treat for Garrett. He doesn't

have a lot of friends come by the house.

I find that hard to believe.

Listen, I hate to eat and run, but I've

gotta head over to the shelter.

I thought we could play board games!

A shelter. That is so inspiring.

Yeah, I love helping bums.

Oh, but you have to wait for dessert. We

have a real treat.

If it's cheesecake, I'll stay.

It's even better than cheesecake!

Garrett, why don't you run and get some

of your new poetry?

(feigning. embarrassment)

Oh god, no one wants to hear it. Oh god,

I'm so embarrassed!

Don't be shy, Marbles.

Garrett runs out of the room.

If you're not really serving dessert, I'm

gonna have to get going.

One poem? If you like it, maybe you can

read it to your homeless friends.

INT. GARRETT'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATER

Garrett stands in front of Elizabeth and his family. He

opens his journal, clears his throat, and begins.

This is called "The Chase," by Garrett

Tiara.

XOXO /My love for you is XOXO/

Her hair is long and straight / Isn't it

great? / About her smile / That I would

walk a mile for / About her personality /

That makes me see the best in me / And at

night when we sleep / Our souls locked in

deep / So that when we sleep / We can

stop pretending / And embrace our

beautiful ending.

Melody applauds. The Aunts join in. Elizabeth claps,

then gets up to go. Garrett shakes them all off.

She sits back down.

We'll dance our dance / We'll revel in

romance perchance / One glance / One dance

/ Because together we can achieve...

(really reaching for it)

Ba-lance... Thank you.

He closes his journal. Everyone applauds. Melody looks

to Elizabeth for a reaction.

Junior likes to rhyme.

53.

Patty, Nancy, why don't you give me a

hand with dessert -- give them a chance

to talk about the poem.

The women exit, leaving Garrett and Elizabeth.

So your poem's about that girl?

Chase, yeah. You got the subtext.

Can I give you some advice?

Please.

Number one, stop writing poetry. Two:

stop reading it. And three: don't set

your sights so high. I mean, she's

really hot. If I were you, I'd try for

that chubby girl that sits up front --

the one with the teeth?

Elizabeth puts her hands to show teeth going off in

different directions.

But I like Chase.

Not gonna happen. Look, I was that hot

girl. Hotter, even. And I never would

have gone out with a kid like you. And

I'm not saying that to be mean. I'm

saying it to be helpful.

What do you know? You don't-even know

our names.

I'll tell you what I know: a kid who

wears the same "Gymnastics" sweatshirt

three days a week isn't getting laid

until he's 26. That's what I know.

This sweatshirt was my dad's. It's all

he left when he left.

54.

Well, there's a reason he didn't pack it.

(quiet, steely)

Fuck you.

Elizabeth pats Garrett on the shoulder.

Good luck being a loser. Thank your mom

for dinner.

Elizabeth heads for the door.

Happy New Year. Are you spending that

alone, too, or do you want my mom to

invite you over?

She gives him the finger over her shoulder and leaves.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The students, many tanned, many with braids in their hair

from their winter vacations, silently stare at Elizabeth.

She looks haggard. She pulls out a bottle of cough syrup

and takes a long swig.

The kids look at each other, like "what is she doing?"

Elizabeth lets out a lame, fake cough.

Shut up.

INT. WOMEN'S FACULTY BATHROOM - DAY

Elizabeth is-checking her makeup in the mirror. Lynn

enters. Her blouse has a healthy serving of vomit on it.

Hey, welcome back.

What is that, vomit?

Lynn grabs some towels and blots at the stain..

Yeah, and a little blood. The kids had

too much sugar.

55.

Anyways, a bunch of us are going out

tonight to see Period 5 play. Do you

want to come?

Ugh. No.

Elizabeth heads out. Lynn, still blotting, follows her.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Elizabeth and Lynn bump into Scott.

Hey, guys. Are you coming to 'In

Cahoots' tonight? My band's doing a few

songs. Could be fun.

Um, yes! That sounds like a party.

(then, to Lynn)

Lynn, do you want to come?

Yes.

We'll all grab a drink!

Great. I need to get drunk. I mean, not

drunk drunk. But a strong buzz. Still

be able to drive home.

(high fives her)

Now we're cooking with grease!

EXT. IN CAHOOTS BAR & GRILL - NIGHT

We hear the familiar riff of Shawn Mullin's "Lullaby."

INT. IN CAHOOTS BAR & GRILL - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Scott, Sandy (with his hair down), a BALDING BASS PLAYER

with a yarmulke and a HEAVY-SET DRUMMER, are playing

their hearts out. This is PERIOD 5.

56.

Amy, and a couple other teachers are front and_center,

grooving to the music. Amy sways with her eyes closed.

Everything's gonna be alright /

rockabye...

Scott joins in, harmonizing.

Rockabye, rockabye...

Bye, bye... Bye, bye...

Elizabeth and Lynn at the bar.

Aren't they terrific?

Elizabeth eye-fucks Scott. She catches his eye and he

quickly smiles before nervously turning his attention to

Amy. Elizabeth watches Amy dance in SLO M0, her BREASTS

bouncing up and down.

(staring at Amy's breasts)

They're perfect.

You should hear some of their originals.

She turns to the bartender.

Two more.

(then, to Lynn)

You want anything?

No thanks... You know, I was thinking

that if you still need that money, you

should.try and go for the bonus. Can't

hurt.

What bonus?

For the state test.

(off Elizabeth's look)

57.

Whichever teacher has the highest scoring

class gets a bonus. We talk about it all

the time in the faculty meetings.

How much?

$5700. Could be good, right?

Let's dance!

Lynn runs out onto the dance floor and joins Amy.

1, 2, 3, 4...

Man it's a hot one / like seven inches

from the midday sun...

Amy kicks her shoes off, and starts dancing. Lynn

follows suit.

INT. J.A.M.S. - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAWN

The sun is breaking.

INT. AMY'S CAR - SAME

Amy listens to NPR as she pulls into the empty parking

lot. Suddenly, she SLAMS on her brakes.

ELIZABETH'S CAR is already there. Amy puts her car in

park and gets out. She walks over to Elizabeth's car and

feels the hood.

Cold.

INT. J.A.M.S. - HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

The clicking of Amy's shoes ECHO through the empty hallway.

She stops, takes off her shoes. She pitter-patters down

the hall to Elizabeth's classroom and PEERS in.

58.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - SAME

Elizabeth is at the chalkboard, intently writing

questions. She senses something in her periphery and

looks over at her window. Nothing.

Elizabeth goes back to work.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - LATER

Elizabeth waits in the doorway impatiently as the kids

filter in. Garrett brings up the rear, rolling his

backpack into class.

Let's go, Sylvia Plath.

Garrett rolls his backpack over Elizabeth's shoe..

Elizabeth winces and glares at Garrett.

The rest of the class enters, stops, noticing WORK

PACKETS on each of their desks.

Where's the TV?

Everyone, take your seats.

Shawn turns to Spencer.

What do you think's going on?

Spencer shrugs.

Come on, come on. We have a lot to cover

so sit down.

The class, still confused, quickly take their seats.

Alright then. Now. Open your To'Kill A

Mockingbird to page one.

The kids slowly take out their books. We HEAR the

distinct sound of twenty-five book spines cracking as

they're opened for the first time.

(checking her notes)

Good. Now, who can tell me why Jem cries

when the hole in the tree is filled with

cement? Anyone?

Because she's a cry baby.

The kids chuckle. Chase looks back at Garrett.

Get out.

Garrett clicks up the handle on his bag and heads for the

door.

We're here to learn. Anyone else have a

problem with that? Good. So who has the

answer to my question?

Everyone looks down.

Nobody's read this book? It's on the

syllabus.

(raising hand and answering)

You never assigned it to us.

Well, now I am. And we're having a quiz

tomorrow.

Panic.

On the first hundred pages.

PANDEMONIUM.

You can't do that! I have band and jazz

band tonight!

We haven't had homework all year!

Hey! Zip your shit! We've fallen

behind, and honestly, your practice tests

scores sucked balls -- which was

embarrassing to me both on a personal

level and as an educator.

Things are about to change. Recess is

over.

INT. ELIZABETH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Elizabeth reads To Kill a mockingbird and highlights like

crazy. She stops, takes a hit from her bong, and

continues.

Her roommate, Kirk, enters through the front door,

sipping from a Big Gulp.

Did you get my Cool Ranch?

He tosses her a bag of chips.

You owe me two bucks..

Kirk walks into his room and closes the door.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Elizabeth paces. She has a book of stickers in her hand.

Okay, now, what is the significance of

the Mockingbird in the novel? What was

Harper Lee trying to tell us?

No one raises their hand.

Come on, you guys know this.

This is as close to real teaching as we've seen from

Elizabeth. Sasha raises her hand. We see that she

already has two gold star stickers on her forehead.

(rolls her eyes)

Anyone else?

Chase raises her hand.

It's a symbol for, um, equality?

Elizabeth puts a sticker on Chase's forehead.

Okay, good. Can anyone add to what that

girl said?

JUMP CUT TO:

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - ANOTHER DAY

The desks have been arranged into a makeshift courtroom.

Spencer presides as the judge. Chase and Shawn are the

prosecutors. Garrett is dressed like Boo Radley. Tristan,

the bully, addresses the rest of the class -- the "jury."

Everyone is clearly into the exercise.

REVEAL Principal Snur, clad in a dolphin tie, watching from

the back of the class.

Ladies and Gentlemen of the jury, you've

heard the "facts," but come on, you know

me. I'm Atticus Finch, baby!

The class laughs.

Come on, seriously. You're gonna side

with Chase and Shawn over me?

Use examples from the book.

It doesn't matter what race the defendant

is. You've just gotta look at the facts-.

Elizabeth nods in agreement. The bell RINGS.

Good work today. And don't forget to

leave your closing statements on my desk.

The students all dutifully drop off their papers, placing

them in a neat stack next to other ungraded PAPERS.

Principal Snur exits, giving Elizabeth a thumbs up.

Love the tie!

INT. TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

Scott and Amy share a bag of trail mix. Sandy reads a

Jerry Garcia biography. Lynn grades. papers.

So, you know how I hate to gossip, but I

heard that one of the custodians walked

in on Omar -- you know, that Arabic boy --

giving...

Oral sex to Matty Feldstein after swim

practice in the boy's locker room.

It just starts younger and younger.

It's nice to finally see the Jews and the

Arabs getting along.

Elizabeth enters. Scott looks up and smiles.

Hey, Ms. Halsey.

Your shirt's mis-buttoned. Her shirt's

mis-buttoned.

Oh shit. Hold on.

Elizabeth turns away from them and starts rebuttoning.

Sandy tries to sneak a peek. Scott shoots him a dirty

look. Sandy gives an innocent shrug.

(grabs yogurt from fridge)

I've just been such a mess the last few

days. Working myself to the bone.

63.

Yeah, it's been quite a change.

SCOTT.

Well, I think it's great. Some teachers

just sail by, doing the bare minimum.

It's good to know there are still some

actual educators out there.

Elizabeth smiles for Scott, like, "You get me."

Well, I should get going. Nice seeing

all of you.

Amy and Elizabeth smile thinly at one another. Elizabeth

squeezes Scott's shoulder as she exits. Amy notices.

What a good egg.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - LATER

Amy and Sasha sit in the empty auditorium. Sasha is

dressed as LITTLE ORPHAN ANNIE, including the RED WIG."

Student STAGEHANDS construct a set.

What else, Sasha?

I don't know. I told you about the car

wash money.

I can't prove that. What else?

I think I've told you everything.

And no more movies in class?

No, we're actually learning. Did you

know that Animal Farm isn't even really

about animals --

Animal Farm?! That's not even on the

syllabus!

64.

(then, collecting herself)

I know you're forgetting something. Do you

want extra credit on your diorama or not?

I want it! Let me think... Oh there

was... never mind.

What?

It was okay. It was medicinal.

Wait. Hold your horses. What was

medicinal?

Ms. Halsey was smoking in her car, but

she told me her doctor prescribed it.

Holy guacamole.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

SLO MO. Two scary-looking GERMAN SHEPHERDS, their teeth

bared, pull two POLICE OFFICERS down the hall.

(to German Shepherd, coaxing)

Come on, Axel, what do you smell, boy?

The Police Officers continue the search. They lead the

dogs up against lockers and knock on class doors.

Amy and Principal Snur watch from the end of the hallway.

You better be right about this -- or I'm

going to be getting a lot of panicked

calls from parents.

Trust me, Wally. My kids in D.A.R.E.

tell me everything and there are drugs in

this school. And not just the students.

Some of the female teachers.

65.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - THE NEXT DAY

The class is split up into mini-sections of four desks

each. The students are quietly and dutifully working.

As Elizabeth reads papers and grades them, we HEAR the

various student's voices.

TRISTAN (V.0.)

Atticus Finch is a good lawer because

he's a good person whose a layer.

Elizabeth looks at Tristan. As she writes, we HEAR --

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

Proofread.

JUMP CUT TO:

QUICK CUTS. Elizabeth grades another paper. She's

growing more agitated and is now feverishly writing.

ELIZABETH (V.0.) (CONT'D)

Wrong!!!

ELIZABETH (V.0.) (CONT'D)

Is this English?

ELIZABETH (V.0.) (CONT'D)

Are you fucking kidding me?

Elizabeth crosses out with one line, so it's

clearly visible beneath. From out in the hallway, we

HEAR the loud, aggressive BARKING of the DOGS. Tristan

runs to the door and peeks out.

Whoa. Drug dogs. Cool.

Sit down.

Elizabeth races to the window.

The Police officers and the dogs enter the classroom next

to hers. Elizabeth glances back at her pocketbook.

Balls.

She races back to her desk.

66.

Keep reading.

Elizabeth takes her seat and leans under her desk,

obscuring her from her class. She opens her pocketbook

and pulls out a CIGARETTE CASE. She pops it open and we

SEE three neatly rolled JOINTS.

Without hesitation, Elizabeth POPS the first one into her

mouth and starts chewing vigorously. As she. makes her

way through the second and then the third, the chewing

becomes slower and the BARKING becomes louder and louder.

Elizabeth starts CHOKING as the door opens and the Police

Officer and the German Shepherd enter, followed by

Principal Snur and Amy.

Elizabeth, sorry to bother you. This

will only take a second.

Elizabeth,. still choking, digs into her purse. She grabs

her cough syrup and takes a huge swig. Elizabeth wipes

her mouth, breathes normally.

Sorry. I had something caught in my

throat.

The German Shepherd continues barking.

What is it, Axel? Where is it, boy?

The Dog comes bounding at Elizabeth. Elizabeth's eyes go

wide. Amy licks her lips. The Dog sideswipes Elizabeth,

almost knocking her over, and jumps onto Garrett.

Ahhh!!!

The'Police Officer starts rummaging through Garrett's bag

and pulls out an opened bag of CORN CHIPS.

(holding up Corn Chips)

All clear. Dog must've responded to

these. Happens.

Elizabeth glares at Amy -- "I know you were behind this."

Amy glares back.

Principal Snur looks at Amy and shakes his head.

(grasping at straws, to Garrett)

Even though that wasn't drugs, junk food

is still contraband. That's detention,

Buster.

Enough, Amy. I think it's time we call

off this witch-hunt.

(pointedly to Amy)

Thank you, Principal Snur. Now if you'll

excuse me, my class has a state test to

prepare for.

Principal Snur, Amy and the Police Officer exit.

Elizabeth slumps down into her chair, and all at once,

the combination of WEED and COUGH SYRUP HITS HER.

Whoa.

Are you okay, Ms. Halsey?

Elizabeth takes a long beat before answering.

Class dismissed.

But the bell didn't ring.

Get out of my face.

(then, to Garrett)

And leave the corn chips.

The class uncertainly gathers their things and heads out.

From outside Elizabeth's window, we SEE the SCHOOL BUSSES

idling curbside. Elizabeth stares at the papers she

still needs to grade. The papers stare back at her.

(to no one)

But first, a nap.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth is asleep at her desk. She wakes with a jolt.

A paper is stuck to her face.

She looks again at the stack of work, then at the pile of

things she's already corrected. There's FOUR.

Balls!

She knocks the stack of ungraded papers to the ground.

After a beat, she collects herself, goes to pick the,

papers off the floor. As she starts tossing them into

the trash, something catches her eye: a PRACTICE TEST

MANUAL. And in the corner, an address:

Peoria Il, 61602

Huh.

Elizabeth tears off the corner and pockets it.

ELIZABETH (PRE-LAP) (CONT'D)

Hey, it's Elizabeth Halsey...

I/E. ELIZABETH'S CAR - DAY

Elizabeth is driving down the highway and smoking a joint.

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

Unfortunately, I can't make it in today.

My grandmother took a turn for the worse

and it looks like she's dead.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

The kids are laughing and engaged. TURN TO REVEAL SCOTT,

dressed in overalls and a straw hat with a piece of hay

in his mouth, animatedly teaching. He's holding a copy

of "The Adventures of Tom Sawyer."

ELIZABETH (V.0.)

Yeah. So I'm off to the funeral. Wish

me luck.

EXT. SIGMA NU - MOMENTS LATER

Elizabeth knocks on the door. A buff, shirtless guy in a

backwards hat opens it. He likes what he sees.

Hi there.

Is Tucker here?

Yeah, hold on. T-baaaaag! Someone's

here.

(then, back to Elizabeth)

So you coming to our "CEOs and Corporate

Ho's" party tonight?

Elizabeth just stares at the Frat Guy. He turns away.

Tucker, dressed identically to the Frat Guy but twenty

pounds overweight, hustles down the stairs. He has a

tattoo of intertwined teabags around his bicep.

INT. SIGMA NU - TUCKER'S BEDROOM - DAY

Tucker sits on his bed. Elizabeth leans against a desk,

unwilling to sit down on anything in his disgusting room.

BOB MARLEY plays softly.

Do you ever talk to my brother?

No. He dumped me, remember?

You and my brother always had the

histrionics.

So, do you want to come to our party

tonight? "CEOs and Corporate Ho's?"

We're kinda light on Ho's.

Like I told "Frat Guy #1," I'm not

interested.

Then what's up?

I need some date rape drugs.

(hurt, defensive)

Two things. Number one: who do you think

I am? Yeah, I like to party and yeah,

I'm in an awesome frat, but that really

hurts. And two: they're not "date rape"

drugs. It's called GHB -- and it's for

weightlifting. It helps build mass,

okay? Why do you even want it?

For lifting.

I have money and I'm in a rush.

She takes out a wad of cash.

That's all you needed to say. No need to

get all histrionic on me.

Tucker walks over to a chest, opens it, and takes out a

small lockbox. He unlocks it and takes out a small

bottle containing a clear liquid.

One capful makes you feel really good.

Two capfuls will knock her out for a

couple hours. You don't want to take any

more than two.

Elizabeth hands him some cash. He hands her the jar and

then gives her a big, warm hug.

Listen, I know you and my brother aren't

together anymore, but I still think of

you as a sister, okay?

Get your hand off my ass.

Sorry, didn't even know I put it down

there. Good luck with your lifting.

71.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CAR - DAY

As Elizabeth drives, we HEAR a phone RINGING.

WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)

I.S.A.T. How can I direct your call?

ELIZABETH (O.S.)

Hi, my name is Marjorie Goodman and I'm

calling from the Chicago Tribune. Who

could I speak to regarding allegations of

racial bias on your standardized tests?

A beat.

WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)

Please hold.

INT. T.G.I.FRIDAY'S - NIGHT

A portly, unkempt man in a cheap suit, CARL HALABI,

nervously walks through the hotel bar. He sees the back

of a WOMAN with a RED PERM.

Marjorie?

"Marjorie" turns and we SEE that it's actually ELIZABETH,

wearing the "Little Orphan Annie" wig. She's sipping a

cocktail.

You must be Carl.

His face lights up, excited to be in the company of such

an attractive woman. Elizabeth stands and extends her

hand. Carl notices Elizabeth's very short skirt.

Thanks for meeting me on such short

notice.

Elizabeth motions for him to sit down.

You find the place alright? Good drive?

Great drive. I love downstate Illinois.

First time to Peoria?

72.

Hmm mmm.

A lot of people don't know this, but it's

the largest city on the Illinois River.

Wow. I did not know that.

Yup yup. And it was actually founded

before Chicago.

Hello, Jeopardy! Have you ever

auditioned?

(enjoying the compliment)

No. I should, I should. Definitely

thought about it.

Listen, I'd love to sit here and chat

with you all night.

Yeah...

But I'm sure you're a very busy man, so

I'll get right down to it.

I've spoken to various, um, black citizens

who are alleging that your tests are

biased towards white people and Orientals.

(shakes head in frustration)

You can't use my name, okay?

No problem.

Like I told you on the phone, every couple

of years, we get calls from all over the

state with these cockamamie charges. You

should hear what they call me. And I'm

not a racist. I voted for Obama.

(motioning for her to write)

That, you can quote me on.

73.

Oh, right.

Elizabeth takes out a notebook and pen and starts jotting

down notes.

Look, Marjorie, I know my tests aren't

perfect. But what's the alternative? I'm

all for free thinking and creativity, but

how do you formulate an education budget

without hard numbers from one of my tests?

You don't need to convince me. But you

know what would help, Carl? For me to

see one of this year's tests.

No problem at all.

Elizabeth lights up.

I'll send you one the day after the

schools administer them.

I'd really love to see it sooner. I'm on

a bit of a deadline.

I wish I could, but unfortunately, you

need one of these bad boys.

Carl holds up a lanyard with a STATE ID CARD and some

keys attached.

Ooh, you look like you're CIA. Listen, I

totally get it. Enough business for one night.

I'm gonna have another drink before I hit

the road. What's your poison?

My poison is the white devil. Wine.

White wine.

Fantastic.

(then, to Bartender)

One white wine, one tequila sunrise, and

two shots of tequila.

74.

INT. T.G.I.FRIDAY'S - LATER

Carl is a little tipsy and slurring his words. Elizabeth

seems to be fine.

You know, Marjorie, this is the best

night I've had in a longtime.

Well, that makes two of us.

Elizabeth gives Carl "fuck me" eyes. He nervously sips

his drink.

What turns you on, Carl?

Everything.

You know what turns me on, Carl?

He giggles nervously.

Sex in an office. Getting fucked really,

really hard against a wooden desk.

Mine's metal.

Even better.

INT. ILLINOIS STANDARDIZED TEST OFFICES - NIGHT

Carl flips on the fluorescent lights and they flicker on,

like dominoes across the ceiling. They enter his office

and Carl awkwardly leans against the metal desk.

(gesturing, as promised)

So this is the desk.

Do you have anything to drink?

Carl goes to a mini-fridge and pulls out an already

opened bottle of white wine.

75.

White wine in the office. You're a bad

boy.

Carl pours a glass. Elizabeth swigs from the bottle.

Do you have any music?

Um... I could put on some internet radio.

Carl goes to fiddle with his computer. Elizabeth quickly

reaches into her purse and pulls out the bottle of GHB.

She pours a little into Carl's wine. And then a little

bit more. As he turns around, she hands him the glass.

A toast. To new friends.

To new lovers.

CLINK. Carl downs his glass.

I'm gonna take off my shoes. Is that okay?

Whatever, man. I'm gonna hit the lady's

room.

K, first door on your right. Don't be

long.

Carl starts carefully clearing everything off of his desk.

INT. STANDARDIZED TEST OFFICES - BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Elizabeth waits in the bathroom. Yawns. Checks her watch.

INT. STANDARDIZED TEST OFFICES - LATER

She walks back in. Carl looks woozy. The only thing

keeping him from passing out is the prospect of seeing

Elizabeth naked.

I wanna fug ya agains dis desk.

76.

Easy, Cowboy.

Carl stumbles towards her. Elizabeth deftly moves around

the desk and exits into the bullpen.

Marblorie!

(as to a child)

Carl, I'm gonna need you to pass the fuck out.

Carl smiles as he feebly chases after her. He. stops at

the photocopier, steadies himself momentarily and then

passes out, STILL STANDING.

Elizabeth grabs the lanyard from Carl's neck and heads back

into his office. She goes over to the filing cabinets,

unlocks it with one of the keys, and starts rifling. She

pulls out a folder.

2009 ILLINOIS STANDARDIZED TEST

And bingo was his name-o.

She walks over to the photocopier and pushes Carl over. He

collapses on the ground -- out cold. She copies the test and

puts it back and grabs a stack of scantrons from a shelf.

She takes a post-it, scribbles something and sticks it to

his forehead. As Elizabeth exits, the camera PUSHES IN:

"You were AMAZING. Love, Marjorie."

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - MORNING

Elizabeth stares at the clock. 8:59... 8:59.

Okay, go.

The students open their test books and start. Twenty-

five pencils hit paper in unison.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - LATER

Elizabeth stares at the clock. 10:59... 10:59.

Okay, pencils down.

A couple of groans. A couple of frantic moves to fill in

more scantron bubbles.

Come on, come on. It doesn't even

matter. Bring your tests up.

The students dutifully place their tests into a neat

stack on the corner of Elizabeth's desk and exit.

Elizabeth waits for all the kids to leave and then slides

all of the exams into the trash. She pulls out a match

and lights the exams on fire.

She then reaches into her bag and pulls out a new stack

of completed exams. She places the new exams into an

official-looking folder and exits.

CHYRON: 2 WEEKS LATER

Principal Snur is on stage. All the teachers sit in the

first few rows. Amy stands at her seat.

If anyone has any information regarding

the whereabouts of the missing "Annie"

wig, please let me know ASAP. Because if

that wig isn't found, you can bet your

bottom dollar the "sun will not come out

tomorrow." Back to you, Wally.

Amy sits. Principal Snur addresses the teachers.

Thanks, Amy. Um, okay, I'm sure everyone

wants to go home, so I'll be quick.

Fourscore and seven years ago...

Scattered laughter. Elizabeth rolls her eyes.

(holding up file)

So I have here the results of the state

exam -- and I'm happy to announce that

John Adams Middle School had the fifth

highest scores in the state.

The Teachers applaud.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

And I want to single out one of our own,

who showed that with hard work and

dedication, one person can make a

difference. She makes me proud to be her

boss and she's now $5700 richer. With

the highest scores in the county -- yes,

you heard me right, in the county ---I

want everyone to please give a hand to --

(to random teacher)

Oh boy, third year in a row. This is

starting to get embarrassing.

Elizabeth Halsey!

Elizabeth leans over to Amy, who's sitting beside her.

This is unexpected.

All of the color drains from Amy's face as Elizabeth

stands and waves at the crowd.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

Teachers are exiting the auditorium. Scott catches up to

Elizabeth, who's marvelling at the bonus check.

Hey, if it isn't Professor Smartypants.

Scott playfully punches her shoulder. Elizabeth

playfully punches him back.

Better not mess with me. I'm a lot

stronger than I look.

79.

So what are you gonna do with your new-

found riches?

Something big. Maybe two big things.

Amy walks up and gives Elizabeth a big, fake hug.

Hey! Ism so proud of you. If someone

told me at the beginning of the year that

you -- you! -- would get the bonus, I

would've said to whomever it was, 'you

must be joshing me.' And now, here we

are. Here we are.

We should go out and celebrate.

(joking, to Elizabeth)

Your treat?

What a good, fun idea. Unfortunately,

Scott and I have to go over the itinerary

for the D.C. trip. We're the chaperones.

We're going together.

(then, quiet to Elizabeth)

We're dating, so it'll also be romantic.

You're not dating anyone now, right?

I've got my eye on someone, but he's

dating a major cunt.

(then, to Scott)

Pardon my French.

No, she sounds terrible.

She is.

Well then. Scott, we should skedaddle.

Those itineraries won't schedule

themselves.

Amy and Scott head off. Scott turns around.

Rain check on those drinks.

You can bet on it.

INT. DR. VOGEL'S OFFICE - RECEPTION AREA - DAY

Danni, the receptionist, uncrumples a BALL OF CRUMPLED CASH

and counts it. Elizabeth taps her fingers impatiently.

Almost done. We don't normally deal with

cash here. At the doctor's office.

Elizabeth slides the bonus check across the desk.

And this is endorsed. And the rest you

can put on these.

Elizabeth slides four credit cards across the desk. The

MIDDLE-AGED DOCTOR from earlier walks by.

And when would you like to come in?

Hi.

He goes into his office. Elizabeth turns back to Danni.

And when would you like to come in?

Today. Tomorrow. As soon as possible.

Danni checks her calendar.

A week from tomorrow, then?

Book it.

Danni slides Elizabeth a packet of literature.

We have a 48 hour cancellation policy.

Anything after that, you'll be charged

50% the cost of the surgery -- unless

there are extenuating circumstances.

I wouldn't miss it for the world.

Elizabeth pulls her shirt away from her body and looks

down at her breasts.

So long, suckers.

EXT. J.A.M.S. - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAWN

The lot is empty except for Elizabeth's car.

INT. AMY'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Elizabeth enters and pulls latex gloves from her bag.

She snaps them on. She takes a seat at Amy's desk and

pulls an apple from her bag.

Then she pulls out POISON IVY. She rubs the apple with

the poison ivy leaves and then carefully places it in the

center of the desk. Elizabeth smiles.

INT. AMY'S CLASSROOM - LATER

Amy's class is seated. Amy enters and heads for her desk.

She notices the apple and smiles at her class, touched.

Thank you.

The class stares back at her blankly.

Who did this?

No response from the class.

Oh come on. Nobody wants an extra

sticker on their all-star board?

Amy presses the apple to her ear.

(muppet voice, to apple)

Who brought you to me?

Amy places the apple up to her ear.

What's that, Mr. Apple? You want me to

take a bite? Alrighty-roo.

Amy takes a bite of the apple and then addresses the class.

Enough horsin' around, let's get started.

JUMP CUT TO:

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAY

A LUXURY BUS idles curbside. Parents see off their kids.

Scott and Elizabeth are checking kids in. Principal Snur

walks up.

All set?

I think we're good.

Elizabeth, thanks again for hopping in

last minute. You really saved us.

Is Amy going to be okay?

She'll be fine. But to be honest, I

think she was scaring some of the kids.

I bet, I bet. Well, let her know she's

in my thoughts.

Amy watching from outside her car. One side of her face

is completely blistered, scaly and red from the POISON

IVY. The kids have every reason to be scared by her.

She gets into her car and slams the door.

(banging on steering wheel)

Fudge! Fudge! Fudge! Fuuuuuck--dge!

INT. LUXURY BUS - DAY

Kids sing BUS SONGS. Elizabeth and Scott sit up front.

Hey, Sasha!

Hey, Sasha!

I think I hear it again!

You're wanted on the telephone!

If it's not Chase, then I'm not home!

Chase rolls her eyes. Up front, Scott and Elizabeth sit

next to one another and share ipod buds.

(nodding to the beat)

You guys are amazing. Period 5 is

definitely going to make it.

Scott smiles wide. Garrett walks up the aisle. He looks

at Elizabeth, then turns to Scott.

Mr. Delacourte, do you think we could go

to the poetry museum?

Oh, um, I don't know, Champ, um --

Scott looks to Elizabeth, like "please help."

(to Garrett, supersweet)

Oh, honey, I bet everyone would just love

to walk around and look at all the poetry

on the walls, but unfortunately, the

itinerary's really tight.

Why are you talking like that?

Just go sit down, sweetie.

Garrett gives her an annoyed look and then heads back to

his seat. Scott smiles at Elizabeth.

Wow, you are such a natural.

When you love what you do, it comes easy.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

A splotchy-faced Amy trudges down the hallway. She

passes Elizabeth's room, stops, walks back to the door

and peers in. She looks down the hallway -- it's empty.

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - CONTINUOUS

Amy rifles through Elizabeth's desk. She opens the top

drawer. Just pens and paper. She tries the bottom

drawer. Locked.

Shishkebabs!

INT. EMPTY HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Amy drags ELIZABETH'S DESK across the hallway into her

room. It's a slow, difficult and loud process.

INT. EMPTY HALLWAY - LATER

Amy, sweating, now drags HER OWN DESK across the.hallway

into Elizabeth's room. She stops to catch her breath.

85.

INT. AMY'S CLASSROOM - THE NEXT DAY

Amy watches as the MAINTENANCE GUY sorts through his keys

and tries to unlocks the desk.

(nervous, too loud)

I never lose my keys!

What's wrong with your face?

What's wrong with your face?!?!

Just making conversation.

He finds the right key and opens the desk.

MAINTENANCE GUY (CONT'D)

All set.

(buying it back)

Super! Thanks a bunch, Amos!

The Maintenance Man exits.

Amy immediately opens the desk and rummages through it.

She pulls out the "Annie" wig.

Busted.

She pulls out a test booklet. There's a piece ripped out

from the front page. Amy's eyes narrow. She runs to the

floor, where she has neat stacks of what used to be in

her desk. She finds her test booklet and compares the

two, clocking the I.S.A.T. address.

Looks like somebody's in big, big

trouble.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY

To establish.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - SMITHSONIAN - DAY

Elizabeth and Scott stand with the kids in the lobby area.

86.

Alright, guys, count-off.

The students begin their count-off.

1.

2!

3.

69.

He bumps knuckles with his friend.

5.

As the students continue counting off, we

D.C. Montage:

--Elizabeth and Scott walk with the kids through

ARLINGTON NATIONAL CEMETERY. Elizabeth snaps her gum.

--Elizabeth, Scott and the kids follow a TOUR GUIDE

through the WHITE HOUSE. Elizabeth takes the gum from

her mouth and looks for a place to toss it. She doesn't

see a trash can and quickly sticks it to the bottom of an

antique table.

--Chase has Elizabeth take a "Charlie's Angels" posed

picture of her and her minions. Elizabeth takes the picture

before they're fully posed and hands the camera back.

END MONTAGE.

INT. ILLINOIS STANDARDIZED TEST OFFICES - DAY

Amy, her face still covered in the rash, sits across from

Carl Halabi, the administrator that Elizabeth roofied.

Carl is staring at a photo of Elizabeth.

She changed her hair. Is Marjorie in

some kind of trouble?

87.

I think you're the one that might be in

some kind of trouble! Did you or did you

not give her a copy of the state test?

What?! No!

All I did was give her a couple of quotes

,for her article and that's it.

What article?

For the Tribune. She's a reporter there.

Right?

Amy's eyes go wide.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Amy's car ZOOMS past the camera.

INT. AMY'S CAR - DAY

Amy's drives, her hands at 10 and 2. CLOSE ON the

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - JEFFERSON MEMORIAL - DAY

The students take pictures. Garrett walks up to chase.

Hey, you want me to take your picture?

No.

Alright, well let me know. I've got my

camera and my battery's fully charged.

She turns away.

Awesome.

88.

.Scott, who stares up at the memorial and looks choked up.

Elizabeth walks up behind him eating a fruit roll-up.

Fruit roll-up?

I'm so conflicted about this man. Did

you know that he had slaves?

Elizabeth tries to dislodge a piece of the fruit roll-up

from the back of her mouth with her tongue.

Yeah, everyone knows that.

I just hate slavery so, so much. An

unquestionable evil. I hate it.

Elizabeth continues struggling with the fruit.

Slavery's the worst.

If I could go back in time and undo

slavery, I would.

Elizabeth gives him a sideways glance, like "no shit."

You really hate slavery, huh?

I hate it.

Elizabeth finally dislodges the chunk of fruit roll-up.

(re fruit roll-up)

Got it.

(staring straight ahead)

You get it.

Scott squeezes Elizabeth's shoulder.

Thanks for listening.

89.

Hey, I want you to know you can talk to

me about anything. Slavery, the

Holocaust, relationships.

Scott smiles. Elizabeth smiles. They lock eyes -- a

moment.

INT. PRINCIPAL SNUR'S OFFICE - DAY

Principal Snur squeezes a dolphin-shaped stress ball that

chirps like a dolphin with every squeeze. Amy sits

across from him, trying to contain her glee.

(shaking his head)

Test-tampering. Here? At J.A.M.S.?

And like I said, she stole the wig. I

think we're dealing with a criminal

master-mind.

Sorry to be the bearer of bad news, Wally.

You know how much we all like her.

I know. It's a tragedy. But Amy, let's

keep this between us. The last thing we

need is a scandal on our hands.

You betcha.

(gets up to go, turns)

You know what scares me the most? This

is just what we know. This could be the

tip of the iceberg. Who knows what else

she's capable of?

INT. RADISSON HOTEL - HALLWAY - NIGHT

The CAMERA is tight on a hotel room door. The faint

thumping of hotel sex can be heard.

INT. RADISSON HOTEL - SCOTT'S ROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth and Scott are dry-humping, FULLY CLOTHED except

for their shoes and socks.

Oh my gosh, your body feels so good.

90.

Harder, harder.

Elizabeth tries pulling off her shirt. Scott pulls it

back down.

Oh my gosh, I'm dry-humping the shit out

of you.

Erg. Dry fuck the fuck out of me.

Oh my gosh, I'm so close... I'm... pfft.

Ugh.

Scott rolls off of Elizabeth and exhales deeply. There's

a wet spot on his jeans.

That was a mistake.

That was fast.

I know, I'm sorry. But this isn't me. And I.

know this isn't you. I'm in love with Amy.

But we're so good together. We both hate

slavery, we both love teaching. And call

me crazy, but I always imagined us

spending summers at your family's compound

in Hyannisport.

I know. And you're awesome and you have a

huge heart and I love your empathy. It's

just, when I was dry-humping you, I couldn't

stop thinking about dry-humping Any.

It's because of my tits, isn't it? Well,

I'm getting new ones in, like, two days.

Don't make a decision until you see them.

Elizabeth, I think you're beautiful just

the way you are, even with your flat chest.

And I think Amy's beautiful. But I just

have to do what's right. I made Amy a

promise.

91.

Scott holds up his hand, showing off a PROMISE RING.

What're you -- 13?

Elizabeth angrily gets up and pulls on her socks.

Wait, Elizabeth. Don't go. Spend the night

here with me. You can sleep on the other bed.

Ooh, like a slumber party? I'm leaving. And

for the record, your band sucks, asstard.

Elizabeth opens the room door and exits. She tries slamming

the door, but it's on a spring so it closes very, very slowly.

EXT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - DAY

The kids listen to a TOUR GUIDE on the steps of the

memorial. Garrett sneaks furtive glances at Chase.

Elizabeth stands away from the group, on her cell.

Wally. Why would I cheat? If I'm guilty

of anything, it's teaching too hard.

Great... I've got nothing to hide.

She ends the call.

Fuck!

Scott, wearing a Thomas Jefferson souvenir T-shirt, and

all of the students look over at Elizabeth.

ELIZABETH.(CONT'D)

What?!

The Tour Guide looks around uncertainly before continuing.

And does anyone know what Abraham

Lincoln's nickname was?

Sasha's hand shoots up.

Honest Abe.

92.

"Honest Abe", that's right. Because

Lincoln always said what was on his mind,

even if that meant being unpopular.

Abraham Lincoln always showed great

courage.

Garrett takes this in. He looks over at Chase and then,

after a beat, raises his hand.

TOUR GUIDE (CONT'D)

Yes?

I love Chase Streeter-Rossi.

All eyes turn to Garrett. Chase looks mortified.

Okay then. Any other questions?

(presses, turns to Chase)

I love you, Chase. I've always loved

you. And even though you pretty much

stopped talking to me in fifth grade, I

don't care. I remember the Chase that

wrote me a card when my dad was

overweight and had to go to the hospital

because of his heart --

That was from the whole class.

Shut up, Sasha, I'm talking about a

different card.

And then, a year later, when he left my

mom and moved in with his trainer, you

wrote me another card. What happened to

us? Remember when we had a sleepover in

the second grade and you wet your bed and

you were so embarrassed and you made me

promise not to ever tell anyone. Well, I

never did and I never will. I know we're

really young, but remember Romeo and

Juliet were only 13. A lot of people

don't know that. So there it is. My

heart on a sleeve.

(goes into rhyming verse)

Don't let me leave / Always believe /

A beat. Chase stares at Garrett.

93.

Gross.

Chase's friends all start laughing. The rest of the

class joins in. Garrett runs down the steps, away from

everyone.

Alright, guys, let's settle down.

The Tour Guide looks around, uncertain.

And these columns here are Doric columns.

Now let's move inside to see the interior

murals painted by Jules Guerin.

The Tour Guide leads the group inside. Elizabeth looks

back and sees Garrett on the steps, his head in his

hands. She rolls her eyes and walks down to him.

Hey, Abe Lincoln, get up. Tour's not

over.

She just laughed at me. Called me gross.

You'll get over it. Get up.

I'm not going back. Leave me alone!

Now.

No!

Garrett runs off.

Hey, come back here you little --

Elizabeth starts running after him in heels. She

immediately breaks a heel.

She breaks the other heel.

Fucker.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - DAY

Who had a good time in D.C.?

The students let out a cheer.

SCOTT (cont'd) (CONT'D)

Who ate too many french fries at lunch?

The students let out another cheer.

SCOTT (cont'd) (CONT'D)

Alright, let's do our final count-off.

A beat.

6.

7.

,SCOTT

Wait, wait. Where's 5? Who's 5?

Everyone looks around.

I think it's Garrett Tiara.

Garrett! Garrett!

Nothing. Scott looks around, stricken.

SCOTT (cont'd) (CONT'D)

And where's Ms. Halsey?

Nothing.

SCOTT (cont'd) (CONT'D)

Alright, everyone on the bus!

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - STREET - LATER

Elizabeth searches for Garrett.

Garrett! Garrett!

Her cell phone RINGS. She checks the caller ID: "HOT

SCOTT." She puts the phone back in her purse.

INT. LUXURY BUS - LATER

The kids are getting restless. A lot of singing. A lot

of horsing around.

Let's go home! Let's go home!

Scott sits up front by the driver. He's on his cell.

I'm freaking out here. They've been

missing over two hours. I'm just a

substitute!

(then, to kids)

Shut up!!!

The chanting immediately stops.

INT. AMY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Amy, the phone cradled to her ear, leans back on her

couch. She's wearing splotches of calamine lotion over

her rash and her hair is pulled back. A TURTLE plods

across her kitchen table.

96.

Oh my gosh. We just might have a Mary

Kay Letourneau situation on our hands.

Amy scratches the turtle's neck as it continues across

the table.

I don't know. You think?

I know. The woman's a criminal

mastermind.

This is such a mess.

What I need from you is to focus and get

our kids home safe. I'll take care of

everything here.

Thanks, Amy. You're a lifesaver.

It's what I do. Love you, Scooter.

She hangs up the phone and cockily kicks her feet onto

the table, accidentally knocking the turtle to the floor.

Oh boy.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - NIGHT

We're no longer in the tourist areas. A STRAY DOG walks

down the middle of the street. SIRENS WAIL. PROSTITUTES

hail Johns with catcalls. Elizabeth, still in her broken

heels, walks down the gritty street. -

Garrett! Garrett!

Her phone RINGS. She checks the CALLER ID -- "HOT SCOTT."

I'm looking for him! Stop fucking

calling me!

She powers her phone off and continues down the street.

She passes two PROSTITUTES.

Hey, guys. Hi. I'm looking for a young

kid, about 13. Really annoying, kind of

a cry baby. Have you seen him?

Fuck you.

Fantastic.

You best step off, bitch, because this is

my block. This here's Poetry's block.

Poetry?

Cause that's how she fuck.

I fuck like that. Lyrical.

Something occurs to Elizabeth. She smiles.

Thank you, Poetry. And Poetry's friend.

Elizabeth walks off and sticks out her hand, trying to

hail a cab. She passes a bunch of HOMELESS MEN warming

up by a trash can fire.

Won't get a cab in this neighborhood.

A CAR slows next to Elizabeth. A JOHN rolls down the

passenger window and leans out.

Hey, sweetheart. How much for a titty

fuck?

I need a ride.

Oh yeah, I need a ride, too. Right

through those titties.

No, I need a ride. Like you driving, and

me pointing mace at your face. I'll give

you ten bucks.

This is weird. Twenty.

Elizabeth hops in.

EXT. J.A.M.S. - TEACHER'S PARKING LOT - NIGHT

MIDNIGHT. PARENTS are waiting. A few console Garrett's

mom, Melody. A few LOCAL NEWS VANS idle nearby.

He's gonna be alright. The police will

find him. I'm sure they're back at the

hotel. Probably just a mix-up.

The bus pulls up to the curb and stops. Scott steps off

first, clearly confused by the crowd and TV cameras.

Immediately, a reporter thrusts a mic into his face.

What can you. tell us about the alleged

romance between Elizabeth Halsey and a 13

year old student?

What?

The students step off and the Parents swarm them.

Oh baby, are you okay? Did she touch

you?

Sasha's parents engulf her in a hug.

Oh Sasha!

(then, to Sasha's Dad)

You expect this stuff to happen in

Florida, not here.

EXT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - OFFICE OF THE POET LAUREATE - NIGHT

Garrett walks up to a drab building where he sees

Elizabeth on the curb waiting for him. There's a tiny

sign that reads "Office of the Poet Laureate."

It's closed. Won't be open till morning.

Come on. Let's get back to the hotel.

I'm sure everyone's mad at you.

Garrett stands his ground.

I'm not leaving without talking to the

poet laureate.

Do you think that some Shel Silverstein

wannabe is going to tell you the meaning

of life?

What do you care?

I'm here, right?

You have to be here. You're a teacher.

Not for long. I'm getting fired for

cheating as soon as we get back.

Garrett takes a seat next to Elizabeth.

So. you came looking for me on your own?

Yup.

(holds up her shoes)

And you owe me a new pair of

Nanette Lepores.

I just want to know what to say to Chase

to get her to like me.

You know what you should do?

What?

Just go out and sleep with as many girls,

as you possibly can. Get her out of your

head.

They'll probably reject me, too.

Yeah, probably. But life's about how you

deal with rejection. You can either hide

in a corner and cry or you can get

stronger every time. And I figure a kid

like you with not much going for him --

if he were to choose the latter -- might

end up becoming a pretty strong man.

Thanks.

Now come on, let's get out of here. I'm

freezing and Mr. Delacourte's probably

shitting a brick.

I can't go back there. All the kids will

laugh at me.

You seriously think they haven't been

laughing already?

Maybe Chase is wondering where I am.

Hate to break it to you, kid, but I don't

think anyone gives two shits where we are.

INT. PRINCIPAL SNUR'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Principal.Snur sits across from Garrett's mother, Melody,

who is beside herself. She is wearing a beret. A

DETECTIVE and Amy are standing behind the desk.

Principal Snur passes her a dolphin-shaped tissue box.

What else can you tell us about Garrett

and Ms. Halsey's relationship?

It was strictly student/teacher.

Garrett's a gifted poet and Ms. Halsey

was trying to bring that out of him.

Amy snorts.

Did they ever spend time outside of the

classroom?

Aside from Christmas at our house?

Absolutely not.

The Detective glances at the Principal, like "Oh boy."

She used to give all the guys that look.

That sex look. You know --

Amy gives her version of a sexy look to the Detective.

She's a monster.

Mrs. Tiara, I think we might need to

consider the possibility that Elizabeth

Halsey has abducted your son and that the

two of them are involved in a sexual

relationship.

Marbles doesn't even have armpit hair!

(quietly, to Principal Snur)

We should send out an Amber Alert. We

need to catch this Sicko.

TV NEWS FOOTAGE

A REPORTER talks to camera on the steps of J.A.M.S.

Other NEWS CREWS are in the bg.

102.

A school official close to the scandal

confirms that in addition to her alleged

sexual relationship with the unnamed

seventh grader, Elizabeth Halsey has been

investigated for possible drug use,

standardized testing fraud, and the theft

of an "Annie" wig from a school

production.

The TV Report flashes an unflattering photo of ELIZABETH

with a BLURRED OUT GARRETT.

In front of the school, the Reporter turns to Principal Snur.

Can you comment on any of these allegations?

The superintendent will speak to the

press shortly, but for now, I'd just like

to say that I hope Ms. Halsey does the

right thing and brings back our student.

INT. WASHINGTON, D.C. - TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Elizabeth buys two tickets. Garrett hovers beside her.

You're paying me back for this.

EXT. TOWNHOUSE - NIGHT

Elizabeth's ex-fiance, mark, stands with Sheila and talks

to a REPORTER.

Am I shocked?

Mark starts laughing.

She was always very cold to me.

JUMP CUT TO:

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - NIGHT

Chase is crying as she speaks to a DIFFERENT REPORTER.

103.

(wiping away tears)

Garrett sat diagonal from me in language

arts. He was always so supportive of my

modelling career.

JUMP CUT TO:

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - NIGHT

Lynn stands with a DIFFERENT REPORTER.

She's my best friend. She tells me

everything. We have lunch together!

JUMP CUT TO:

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - NIGHT

Tristan stands with a DIFFERENT REPORTER.

I've been telling him to hit that all

year. That's my boy!

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - NIGHT

Amy talks to a DIFFERENT REPORTER.

(holding a candle)

"No child left behind." How ironic.

That a child was left behind. In

Washington, D.C. With a statutory

rapist.

JUMP CUT TO:

INT. AMTRAK TRAIN NIGHT

Elizabeth and Garrett are seated next to one another on

the darkened train. Garrett's asleep against the window,

Elizabeth is reading "In Style" with the overhead light.

Garrett stirs, rolls the other way and gently places his

head on Elizabeth's shoulder. She looks at him and then

shrugs her shoulder to get him off. His head falls back

on. She leaves it.

104.

I/E. TAXI - NIGHT

Elizabeth is asleep on Garrett's shoulder. Garrett is

pressed against the window, clearly uncomfortable. The

Taxi turns a corner and Garrett notices something.

Hey, there's a bunch of people outside of

my house.

Elizabeth wakes up and looks up to see:

A CANDLELIGHT VIGIL, including Amy, Scott, Melody, and

many. of Garrett's classmates; a SEA OF TV CAMERAS; and

TWO POLICE CARS.

What the fuck?

(then, to Garrett)

Did you steal something?

The taxi pulls up to the curb and Elizabeth and Garrett .exit.

CHAOS. They're immediately swarmed by everyone. The

Cops struggle to push past.

Marbles!!!

The reporters thrust mics in her face.

How long have you been Why did you steal the

sleeping together? "Annie" wig?!

Just the once on the train. What?!

The Cops get through and smother Garrett in a police

blanket. A FEMALE COP roughly leads Elizabeth to one of

the squad cars.

This is crazy! He's a kid.

Elizabeth is put into the back of squad car.

I'm a good person! I don't fuck minors!

Elizabeth bangs on the window. Amy smiles and waves.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

A Sergeant is leading Elizabeth to a phone.

You're quite the celebrity.

You want an autograph?

You get one call.

Elizabeth picks up the phone. The Sergeant gives her

some space.

Hi, this is Elizabeth Halsey calling. I'm

calling to cancel my surgery for tomorrow.

Extenuating circumstances. Please, please

don't make me lose my deposit.

Elizabeth slams down the receiver.

If you need medical attention, we're

required to provide it.

Just take me back to my cell.

INT. J.A.M.S. - PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - DAY

Silence.

Elizabeth and her roommate, Kirk, who's now dressed in an

ill-fitting suit and has his hair combed, sit across from

Principal Snur and the SCHOOL SUPERINTENDENT, a no-

nonsense woman in her 60s.

Again, speaking on behalf of the whole

administration, I just want to apologize

for what happened. Clearly, there was a

miscommunication.

Oh, you think?

Kirk puts his hand up to Elizabeth, like "I'll take care

of this."

106.

My client has been an upstanding member

of society her entire life. She has

spent time as an educator, she has

More than once!

And she has touched the lives of those

around her -- until last night.

Elizabeth pulls Kirk into a lawyer/client huddle.

You kind of sound like a pro.

Do you think they're going to find out

that I didn't pass the bar?

You're doing great.

They break from their huddle.

Your administration jumped to

conclusions, set off a media fire-storm

and has humiliated one of its own. As

Ms. .Halsey's chief counsel, I've advised

her that we have an extremely strong case

of libel and that it's certainly within

her province to sue the district.

How do we make this go away?

Ms. Halsey is not a litigious woman. She

wants this whole matter to go away as

quickly and painlessly as possible.

Kirk slides a piece of paper across the desk.

This is a list of our demands.

The Superintendent and Principal Snur scan the list.

You're kidding me.

Don't answer right now. Let it marinate.

Oh, and I should mention that if this

goes to trial, I can cry on cue.

Elizabeth starts crying. Everybody looks at her, aghast.

And as quickly she started, she stops.

Now, if you'll all excuse me, I should be

heading to fifth period. I hate to be

tardy.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY

Elizabeth heads down the empty hallway. From the auditorium,

the faint sound of "Tomorrow, Tomorrow" from "Annie" can be

heard.

Amy steps out of the auditorium, humming along to the song.

She notices Elizabeth coming to her. Amy debates her options.

Elizabeth! I was so worried. You gave

us quite a scare, you did.

Elizabeth doesn't acknowledge her and continues walking

toward Amy, only feet away now.

(attempting some levity)

Somebody's being a grumple--

BAM! Elizabeth punches Amy square in the nose. Amy drops

to her knees and grabs her nose, now squirting blood.

Elizabeth keeps walking and turns a corner. A BELL RINGS

and the hallway starts filling with STUDENTS.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (V.0.)

Well, it's been another great year at

JAMS...

108.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - GYM - DAY

QUICK CUTS. The year is winding down. Instead of gym,

kids are using the time to sign each other's yearbooks.

Chase walks up to Garrett with her yearbook, asks him to

sign it.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (V.0.)

Who can forget the exciting addition of a

climbing wall to the small gym...

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - AUDITORIUM - DAY

QUICK CUTS. It's class photo day. With each FLASH, we

SEE a different TEACHER with a different CLASS.

And finally AMY, with a bandage over her nose and two

black eyes, smiles widely alongside her CLASS.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (V.0.)

.Or the student/teacher spelling bee.

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER'S LOUNGE - DAY

Much like the first scene of the movie. The teachers are

sipping plastic flutes of Champagne. Principal Snur is

up front. Elizabeth lingers in the back.

I think that was a huge s-u-c-c-a-s-s.

Polite laughter.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

But seriously... With summer around the

corner, it's time to not only say goodbye

to another school year, but to also say

goodbye to one of our own.

Elizabeth smiles.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

Amy Squirrel.

Amy, her face completely healed, steps forward, with a

pursed smile.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

After six short years of outstanding,

tireless work here, Amy is transferring

out of the district.

PRINCIPAL SNUR (CONT'D)

I know she'll bring her love for learning

to her new students.

Sandy, the ponytailed teacher, pipes up.

Speech! Speech!

Although leaving was a difficult

choice...

Amy looks over to Elizabeth, who motions for her to

continue.

When the superintendent personally asks

you to work at one of the worst schools

in the state, you say yes. I'm looking

forward to bringing my brand of zany

energy and lust -- not love, lust -- for

learning to the underprivileged students

at Malcolm X High. I welcome the

challenge.

The Teachers applaud, Scott the most enthusiastic.

Elizabeth steps up to Amy, who flinches.

Here, I got you this.

Elizabeth hands Amy a poster tube. She.opens it and

unravels the "Integrity" poster that Elizabeth stole.

And good luck. Somebody's gonna need it.

Elizabeth heads for the door. Scott catches up to her.

Hey, Stranger.

(then, whispers)

Listen, now that Amy's transferring,

maybe the two of us could go grab a

drink.

Elizabeth walks out.

CHYRON: THREE MONTHS LATER

EXT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - TEACHER PARKING LOT - DAY

Elizabeth's 1994 Grand-Am pulls into her spot. And as

INT. JOHN ADAMS MIDDLE SCHOOL - HALLWAY - DAY

The hallway is empty. We FOLLOW Elizabeth from behind,

and as she reaches for the door to her class, we

INT. ELIZABETH'S CLASSROOM - DAY

Quick cuts. From behind, we see Elizabeth place an APPLE

on each desk, just as Amy did earlier.

Elizabeth's walls are still bare, except for a framed

photo of Amy's class picture, with Amy's messed up face,

from the year before.

The bell RINGS.

Elizabeth turns and we now SEE that she has TASTEFUL FAKE

BREASTS.

Elizabeth walks to her door and opens it, watching the

students as they reconnect with friends and share stories

about summer camp.

She notices Sasha who is MASSAGING a BOY's shoulders.

bunch of other EIGHTH GRADE BOYS wait their turn.

EIGHTH GRADE BOY

Do me! Do me!

Sasha clearly enjoys the attention. Elizabeth smiles.

Garrett walks by, hand in hand with Chase. Trailing both

of them are identical rolling backpacks. He sees

Elizabeth and runs over.

You and Chase, huh? She likes the

poetry?

She likes that I'm kind of a celebrity.

But I'm cool with it. I'm the man around

here!

Easy.

Well, I should get going. See you

around, Ms. Halsey. Oh, and nice...

He points at her breasts.

Thanks! You're the first student to

notice.

Garrett smiles and walks off. Lynn walks by. She's

cleaning another big stain from her shirt.

Elizabeth, hey! How was your summer?

It was great. I met a doctor! Plastic

surgeon, actually. He's amazing.

He sounds amazing. How'd you meet him?

The internet?

No, in recovery. And I looked like ass,

so I know it's real.

Sounds like a fairy tale.

It is. Storybook. Well, not total

storybook. It's a little messy because

his wife filed for divorce last week, but

we're gonna get through that.

So you want to grab lunch later?

Sure! My treat.

No, you got it last time. We'll split it.

