ON BARTON FINK

He is a bespectacled man in his thirties, hale but somewhat

bookish. He stands, tuxedoed, in the wings of a theater,

looking out at the stage, listening intently to end of a

performance.

In the shadows behind him an old stagehand leans against a

flat, expressionlessly smoking a cigarette, one hand on a

thick rope that hangs from the ceiling.

The voices of the performing actors echo in from the offscreen

stage:

We hear a door open and close, then approaching footsteps. A

tall, dark actor in a used tweed suit and carrying a beat-up

valise passes in front of Barton: From offscreen stage:

The actor sets the valise down and then stands waiting int

he shadows behind Barton.

An older man in work clothes  not wardrobe  passes in front

of Barton from the other direction, pauses at the edge of

the stage and cups his hands to his mouth.

As the man walks back off the screen:

Barton mouths the last line in sync with the offscreen actor:

With this the stagehand behind Barton furiously pulls the

rope hand-over-hand and we hear thunderous applause and shouts

of "Bravo!"

As the stagehand finishes bringing the curtain down, somewhat

muting the applause, the backstage actor trots out of frame

toward the stage.

The stagehand pulls on an adjacent rope, bringing the curtain

back up and unmuting the applause.

Barton Fink seems dazed. He has been joined by two other

men, both dressed in tuxedos, both beaming toward the stage.

BARTON'S POV

Looking across a tenement set at the backs of the cast as

the curtain rises on the enthusiastic house. The actors take

their bows and the cry of "Author, Author" goes up from the

crowd.

The actors turn to smile at Barton in the wings.

BARTON

He hesitates, unable to take it all in.

He is gently nudged toward the stage by the two tuxedoed

gentlemen.

As he exits toward the stage the applause is deafening.

TRACKING SHOT

Pushing a maitre 'd who looks back over his shoulder as he

leads the way through the restaurant.

REVERSE

Pulling Barton

TRACKING IN

Toward a large semi-circular booth. Three guests, two me and

a woman in evening wear, are rising and beaming at Barton. A

fat middle-aged man, one of the tuxedoed gentlemen we saw

backstage, is moving out to let Barton slide in.

Barton nods and looks at the woman.

Barton looks sullenly at his champagne glass as the fat man

fills it.

Barton turns to look for the source of an insistent jingling.

We swish pan off him to find a busboy marching through the

restaurant displaying a page sign, bell attached, with

Barton's name on it.

TRACKING IN TOWARD A BAR

A distinguished fifty-year-old gentleman in evening clothes

is nursing a martini, watching Barton approach.

PULLING BARTON

As he draws near.

Barton scowls

Garland smiles, then draws Barton close.

Barton leans earnestly forward.

He leans back and chuckles ruefully.

Barton glumly lights a cigarette and gazes out across the

floor.

Garland studies him.

Garland looks at Barton for a reaction, but gets none.

Absently:

Garland smiles gently.

We hear a distant rumble. It builds slowly and we cut to:

A GREAT WAVE

Crushing against the Pacific shore.

The roar of the surf slips away as we dissolve to:

HOTEL LOBBY

A high wide shot from the front door, looking down across

wilting potted palms, brass cuspidors turning green, ratty

wing chairs; the fading decor is deco-gone-to-seed.

Amber light, afternoon turning to evening, slopes in from

behind us, washing the derelict lobby with golden highlights.

Barton Fink enters frame from beneath the camera and stops

in the middle foreground to look across the lobby.

We are framed on his back, his coat and hat. The lobby is

empty.  There is a suspended beat as Barton takes it in.

Barton moves toward the front desk.

THE REVERSE

As Barton stops at the empty desk. He hits a small silver

bell next to the register. Its ring-out goes on and on without

losing volume.

After a long beat there is a dull scuffle of shoes on stairs.

Barton, puzzled, looks around the empty lobby, then down at

the floor behind the front desk.

A TRAP DOOR

It swings open and a young man in a faded maroon uniform,

holding a shoebrush and a shoe  not one of his own  climbs

up from the basement.

He closes the trap door, steps up to the desk and sticks his

finger out to touch the small silver bell, finally muting

it.

The lobby is now silent again.

The clerk flips through cards on the desk.

He is turning to a register around for Barton to sign.

The clerk is scribbling something on the back of an index

card.

He pushes a room key across the counter on top of the index

card.

Barton looks at the card.

On it: "CHET!" Barton looks back up at the clerk. They regard

each other for a beat.

The clerk.

Barton stares at him.

The clerk stares back.

As Barton stoops to pick up his two small bags:

The clerk leans over the desk to call after him:

Barton is walking to the elevator.

ELEVATOR

Barton enters and sets down his bags.

An aged man with white stubble, wearing a greasy maroon

uniform, sits on a stool facing the call panel. He does not

acknowledge Barton's presence.

After a beat:

The elevator man gets slowly to his feet. As he pushes the

door closed:

SIXTH-FLOOR HALLWAY

Barton walks slowly toward us, examining the numbers on the

doors.

The long, straight hallway is carpeted with an old stained

forest green carpet. The wallpaper shows faded yellowing

palm trees.  Barton sticks his key in the lock of a door

midway down the hall.

HIS ROOM

As Barton enters.

The room is small and cheaply furnished. There is a lumpy

bed with a worn yellow coverlet, an old secretary table, and

a wooden luggage stand.

As Barton crosses the room we follow to reveal a sink and

wash basin, a house telephone on a rickety night stand, and

a window with yellowing sheers looking on an air shaft.

Barton throws his valise onto the bed where it sinks,

jittering.  He shrugs off his jacket.

Pips of sweat stand out on Barton's brow. The room is hot.

He walks across the room, switches on an oscillating fan and

struggles to throw open the window. After he strains at it

for a moment, it slides open with a great wrenching sound.

Barton picks up his Underwood and places it on the secretary

table. He gives the machine a casually affectionate pat.

Next to the typewriter are a few sheets of house stationary:

"THE HOTEL EARLE: A DAY OR A LIFETIME."

We pan up to a picture in a cheap wooden frame on the wall

above the desk. A bathing beauty sits on the beach under a

cobalt blue sky. One hand shields her eyes from the sun as

she looks out at a crashing surf.

The sound of the surf mixes up.

BARTON

Looking at the picture

TRACKING IN ON THE PICTURE

The surf mixes up louder. We hear a gull cry.

The sound snaps off with the ring of a telephone.

THE HOUSE PHONE

On the nightstand next to the bed. With a groan of bedsprings

Barton sits into frame and picks up the telephone.

Barton wearily rubs the bridge of his nose.

A PILLOW

As Barton's head drops down into frame against it.

He reaches over and turns off the bedside light.

He lies back and closes his eyes.

A long beat.

We hear a faint hum, growing louder.

Barton opens his eyes.

HIS POV

A naked, peeling ceiling.  The hum  a mosquito, perhaps

stops.

BARTON

His eyes move this way and that. After a silent beat, he

shuts them again.

After another silent beat, we hear  muffled, probably from

am adjacent room  a brief, dying laugh. It is sighing and

weary, like the end of a laughing fit, almost a sob.

Silence again.

We hear the rising mosquito hum.

EXECUTIVE OFFICE

Barton Fink is ushered into a large, light office by an

obsequious middle- aged man in a sagging suit.

There are mosquito bites on Barton's face.

REVERSE

From behind a huge white desk, a burly man in an expensive

suit gets to his feet and strides across the room.

He bear-hugs Barton.

He separates without waiting for an answer.

Lipnik is lumbering back to his desk.

To Lou:

Lou immediately rises and leaves. Lipnik's tone becomes

confidential:

He rises and starts pacing.

Lou enters with coffee.

After a robust laugh, he beams at Barton.

There is a disappointed silence. Lipnik looks at Lou.  Lou

clears his throat.

Lou is getting to his feet and signaling for Barton to do

likewise.

TRACKING SHOT

We are in the sixth-floor hallway of the Earle, late at night.

A pair of shoes sits before each door. Faintly, from one of

the rooms, we can hear the clack. clack. clack. of a

typewriter.

It grows louder as we track forward.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT  TYPEWRITER

Close on the typing so that we see only each letter as it is

typed, without context.

One by one the letters clack on: a-u-d-i-b-l-e. After a short

beat, a period strikes.

BARTON

Elbows on his desk, he looks down at what he has just written.

He rolls the paper up a few lines, looks some more.

THE PAGE

It says:

A TENEMENT BUILDING

On Manhattan's Lower East Side. Early morning traffic is

audible.

BARTON

After a beat he rolls the sheet back into place.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT

The letter-strike area. It is lined up to the last period,

which is struck over by a comma. The words "as is" are typed

in and we cut back to

BARTON

characters and looks.

Silence.

Breaking the silence, muffled laughter from an adjacent room.

A man's laughter. It is weary, solitary, mirthless.

Barton looks up at the wall directly in front of him.

HIS POV

The picture of the girl on the beach.

BARTON

Staring, as the end-of-the-tether laughing continues. Barton

looks back down at his typewriter as if to resume work, but

the sound is too insistent to ignore.

WIDE SHOT

The room, Barton sitting at his desk, staring at the wall.

The laughter.

Barton pushes his chair back, goes to the door, opens it and

looks out.

HIS POV

The empty hallway, a pair of shoes before each door. At the

end of the hall a dim red bulb burns over the door to the

staircase, punctuating the sick yellow glow of the line of

wall sconces.

The laughter, though still faint, is more resonant in the

empty hall.

Perhaps its quality has changed, or perhaps simply because

it is so insistent, the laughter now might be taken for

weeping.

Barton pauses, trying to interpret the sound. He slowly

withdraws into his room.

HIS ROOM

Barton looks down at his typewriter for a beat. The

laughter/weeping continues.

He walks over to his bed, sits down and picks up the house

phone.

After a beat:

He cradles the phone. The laughter continues for a moment or

two, then abruptly stops with the muffled sound of the

telephone ringing next door.

Barton looks at the wall.

The muffled sound of a man talking.

The sound of the earpiece being pronged.

Muffled footsteps next door.

The sound of the neighbor's door opening and shutting.

Footsteps approaching the hall.

A hard, present knock at Barton's door.

Barton hesitates for a beat, then rises to go get the door.

ON THE DOOR

As Barton opens it. Standing in the hall is a large man  a

very large man  in short sleeves, suspenders, and loosened

tie. His face is slightly flushed, with the beginnings of

sweat.

Hastily:

He sticks his hand out.

Without reaching for the hand.

Unfazed, Charlie Meadows unpockets a flask.

As he enters:

He gets two glasses from the wash basin.  Charlie sits down

on the edge of the bed and uncorks his flask.

As he hands Charlie a glass:

He fills a glass with whiskey and swaps it for the empty

glass.

He guffaws.

He gestures toward his face:

For the first time Barton smiles.

Charlie laughs.

He gazes at Charlie.

Charlie laughs.

Barton smiles with him.

Charlie is getting to his feet and walking to the door.

Barton chuckles and extends his hand.

He pumps Barton's hand, then turns and pauses in the doorway.

Charlie closes the door and is gone.

Barton goes back to his desk and sits.

Muffled, we can hear the door of the adjacent room opening

and closing.

Barton looks at the wall.

HIS POV

The bathing beauty.

From offscreen we hear a sticky, adhesive-giving-way sound.

HIS POV

The wallpaper is lightly sheened with moisture from the heat.

One swath of wallpaper is just finishing sagging away from

the wall. About three feet of the wall, where it meets the

ceiling, is exposed.

The strip of wallpaper, its glue apparently melted, sags and

nods above the bed. It glistens yellow, like a fleshy tropical

flower.

BACK TO BARTON

He goes over to the bed and steps up onto it. He smooths the

wallpaper back up against the wall.

He looks at his hand.

HIS HAND

Sticky with tacky yellow wall sweat.

He wipes it onto his shirt.

We hear a faint mosquito hum.

Barton looks around.

A TYPEWRITER Whirring at high speed. The keys strike too

quickly for us to make out the words.

SLOW TRACK IN

On Barton, sitting on a couch in an office anteroom, staring

blankly.  Distant phones ring. Barton's eyes are tired and

bloodshot.

HIS POV

A gargoyle secretary sits typing a document.

The office door opens in the background and a short middle-

aged man in a dark suit emerges.

To his secretary:

He notices Barton.

The secretary looks over from her typing to consult a slip

of paper on her desk.

Geisler gives a hostile stare. Without looking at her, he

addresses the secretary:

He perches on the edge of the desk, an open hand out toward

the secretary, as he glares wordlessly at Barton.

After a moment:

She puts the phone in Geisler's hand.

Without looking he reaches the phone back. The secretary

takes it and cradles it.

COMMISSARY

Barton and Geisler sit eating in a semicircular booth. Geisler

speaks through a mouthful of food:

Geisler chews on his cottage cheese and stares at Barton.

Geisler rises and throws his napkin onto his plate.

COMMISSARY MEN'S ROOM

Barton stands at a urinal.

He stares at the wall in front of him as he pees. After a

moment, he cocks his head, listening.

We hear a throat clearing, as if by a tenor preparing for a

difficult passage. It is followed by the gurgling ruch of

vomit.

Barton buttons his pants and turns to face the stalls.

There is more businesslike throat clearing.

Barton stoops.

HIS POV

We boom down to show the blue serge pants and well-polished

shoes of the stall's kneeling occupant.

A white handkerchief has been spread on the floor to protect

the trouser knees.

The toilet flushes. The man rises, picks up his handkerchief

up off the floor and gives it a smart flap.

BARTON

He quickly straightens and goes to the sink. He starts washing

his hands. We hear the stall door being unlatched.

Barton glances over his shoulder.

HIS POV

The stall door opening.

BARTON

Quickly, self-consciously, he looks back down at his hands.

HIS POV

His hands writhing under the running water. We hear footsteps

approaching.

BARTON

Forcing himself to look at his hands. We hear the man reach

the adjacent sink and turn on the tap.

Barton can't help glancing up.

THE MAN

A dapper little man in a neat blue serge suit. He has warm

brown eyes, a patrician nose, and a salt-and-pepper mustache.

He smiles pleasantly at Barton.

BARTON

He gives a nervous smile  more like a tic  and looks back

down at his hands. We hear the man gargling water and spitting

into the sink.

After a moment, Barton looks up again.

THE MAN

Reacting to barton's look as he washes his hands. This time,

a curt nod accompanies his pleasant smile.

BARTON

Looks back down, then up again.

THE MAN

Extends a dripping hand.

His speech is softly accented, from the South.

They shake, then return to their ablutions.

We hold on Barton as we hear Mayhew's faucet being turned

off and his foot-steps receding. For some reason, Barton's

eyes are widening.

The dapper little man stops and turns.

Barton stands with his back to the sink, facing the little

man, his hands dripping onto the floor. There is a short

pause. Barton is strangely agitated, his voice halting but

urgent.

Mayhew cocks his head with a politely patient smile. Finally

Barton brings out:

Mayhew leans against a stall.

He smiles at Barton's surprise.

He is taking out a flask and unscrewing its lid.

He clears his throat, takes a swig from the flask, and waves

it at Barton.

He knocks back some more.

Mayhew eyes him appraisingly, and at length clears his throat.

Barton looks down at his hands, then pulls a rough brown

paper towel from a dispenser.

Mayhew sighs:

He waves his flask.

He turns to leave.

THE NUMBER "15"

We are close on brass numerals tacked up on a white door.

Muted, from inside, we hear Mayhew's voice  enraged,

bellowing.  We hear things breaking. Softer, we hear a woman's

voice, its tone placating.

REVERSE TRACKING SLOWLY IN

On Barton, standing in front of the door.

The noise abates for a moment. We hear the woman's voice

again.

Barton hesitates, listening; he thinks, decides, knocks.

With this the woman's voice stops, and Mayhew starts wailing

again.

The door cracks open.

The woman looks as if she has been crying.

From inside, we hear Mayhew's wail.

The woman glances uncomfortably over her shoulder and steps

outside, closing the door behind her.

Through the door Mayhew is still wailing piteously.

She brushes a wisp of hair out of her eyes.

Audrey reaches out and touches Barton's hand.

Audrey smiles at him.

Audrey glances back as we hear the sound of shattering dishes

and heavy footsteps.

Hurriedly:

Flustered, she backs away and closes the door.

CLOSE ON A SMALL WRAPPED PACKAGE

Hand-printed on the package is the message:

"Hope these will turn the trick, Mr. Fink.  Chet!"

The wrapping is torn away and the small box is opened.

Two thumbtacks are taken out.

BARTON'S HOTEL ROOM

Late at night. The swath of wallpaper behind the bed has

sagged away from the wall again, and has been joined by the

swath next to it.

Barton enters frame and steps up onto the bed.

He smooths up the first swath and pushes in a thumbtack near

the top.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT

On the tack. As Barton applies pressure to push it in, tacky

yellow goo oozes out of the puncture hole and beads around

the tack.

ON BARTON

Smoothing up the second swath.

As he pushes in the second tack he pauses, listening.

Muffled, through the wall, we can hear a woman moaning.

After a motionless beat, Barton eases his ear against the

wall.

CLOSE ON BARTON

As his ear meets the wall.

The woman's moaning continues. We hear the creaking of

bedsprings and her partner, incongruously giggling.

Barton grimaces, gets down off the bed and crosses to the

secretary, where he sits. He stares at the paper in the

carriage.

HIS POV

The blank part of the page around the key-strike area, under

the metal prongs that hold the paper down.

We begin to hear moaning again.

BACK TO BARTON

Still looking; sweating.

HIS POV

Tracking in on the paper, losing the prongs from frame so

that we are looking at the pure unblemished white of the

page.

The moaning is cut short by two sharp knocks.

THE DOOR

As it swings open.  Charlie Meadows leans in, smiling.

he enters:

Charlie gives a dismissive wave.

Charlie perches on the corner of the bed.

He takes his flask out.

Barton smiles.

He taps himself on the head, chuckling.

He shrugs.

He laughs at his reference to Barton's curly hair, and pulls

a dog-eared photograph from his wallet. As he hands it to

Barton:

THE PHOTO

Charlie smiles and waves with one foot up on the running

board of a 1939 roadster. A battered leather briefcase dangles

from one hand.

He looks from Charlie to the Underwood.

He looks back at Charlie.

He gives a sad chuckle.

He is getting down on his hands and knees.

He indicated his own right bicep.

He indicated his left bicep.

Barton hesitates.

Barton complies.

With one clean move Charlie flips Barton onto his back, his

head and shoulders hitting with a thump. Charlie pins Barton's

shoulders with his own upper body.

But before the move even seems completed Charlie is standing

again, offering his hand down to Barton.

Barton seems dazed, but not put out.

Barton has propped himself up and is painfully massaging the

back of his head. This registers on Charlie.

He clomps hurriedly away.

We hear water running, and Charlie reenters with a wet towel.

Barton accepts the towel and presses it to his head.

Barton gets to his feet.

Charlie looks at him with some concern, then turns and heads

for the door.

He opens the door.

The door closes.

Barton crosses to the secretary and sits down, rubbing the

back of his head. He rolls up the carriage and looks at the

page in the typewriter.

HIS POV

The page.

A TENEMENT BUILDING

On Manhattan's Lower East Side. Early morning traffic is

audible, as is the cry fishmongers.

BACK TO BARTON

He rubs the back of his head, wincing, as he stares at the

page.

His gaze drifts up.

HIS POV

The bathing beauty.

BARTON

Looking at the picture. He presses the heels of his hands

against his ears.

HIS POV

The bathing beauty. Faint, but building, is the sound of the

surf.

BARTON

Head cocked. The surf is mixing into another liquid sound.

Barton looks sharply around.

THE BATHROOM

Barton enters.

The sink, which Charlie apparently left running when he wet

Barton's towel, is overflowing. Water spills onto the tile

floor.

Barton hurriedly shuts off the tap, rolls up one sleeve and

reaches into the sink.

As his hand emerges, holding something, we hear the unclogged

sink gulp water.

BARTON'S HAND

Holding a dripping wad of cotton.

BARTON

After a brief, puzzled look he realizes where the cotton

came from  and convulsively flips it away.

ON THE TITLE PAGE OF A BOOK:

"NEBUCHADNEZZAR

BY

W.P. Mayhew"

A hand enters with pen to inscribe: "To Barton

May this little entertainment divert you in your sojourn

among the Philistines.   Bill"

The book is closed and picked up.

WIDER

As-thoomp!-the heavy volume is deposited across the table,

in front of Barton, by Mayhew.

Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are seated around a picnic table.

It is one of a few tables littering the lot of a small stucco

open-air hamburger stand.

It is peaceful early evening. The last of the sunlight slopes

down through palm trees. Barton, Mayhew, and Audrey are the

only customers at the stand.

Mayhew's black Ford stands alone at the edge of the lot.

Mayhew leans back in his chair.

His eyes still closed, he waves a limp hand gently in the

breeze.

Barton looks nervously at Audrey before continuing.

He sighs and reaches for a bottle of Wild Turkey.

Mayhew is becoming testy:

Audrey, anticipating, jumps hastily in. She taps the book on

the table.

Mayhew looks at her narrowly.

Mayhew chuckles.

Mayhew is getting to his feet.

He wanders over to a corner of the lot between two palm trees,

still clutching his bottle, his back to Barton and Audrey,

and urinates into the grass.

He is singing  loudly  "Old Black Joe."

Audrey walks over to him.

BARTON

Watching her go.

HIS POV

Audrey touches Mayhew's elbow. He looks at her, stops singing,

she murmurs something, and he bellows:

She touches him again, murmuring, and he lashes out at her,

knocking her to the ground.

BARTON

He rises.

AUDREY

Coming back to Barton.

MAYHEW

Stumbling off down the dusty road, muttering to himself and

waving his bottle of Wild Turkey.

He looks down the road. Mayhew is a small lone figure, weaving

in the dust.

We hear distant bellowing:

Audrey bursts into tears. Barton puts his arms around her

and she leans into him.

Gradually, she collects herself, wiping her tears.

He considers this for a moment, but his anger returns.

Audrey gazes at him.

MAYHEW

He is very distant now, weaving but somehow dignified in his

light summer suit. "Old Black Joe" floats back to us in the

twilight.

BARTON'S HOTEL ROOM

From a high angle, booming down on Barton.

The room is dark. Barton lies fully clothed, stretched out

on the bed, asleep. The hum of the mosquito fades up in the

stillness.

Suddenly Barton slaps his cheek. His eyes open, but he remains

still. The hum fades up again.  Barton reaches over and turns

on the bedside lamp. His eyes shift this way and that as he

waits, listening.

The hum fades down to silence.

Barton's eyes shift.

HIS POV

The typewriter sits on the secretary, a piece of paper rolled

halfway through the carriage.

THE TYPEWRITER

Barton enters frame and sits down in front of the typewriter.

HIS POV

Next to the typewriter are several crumpled pieces of paper.

The page in the carriage reads:

A TENEMENT HOTEL

On the Lower East Side. We can faintly hear the cry of the

fishmongers. It is too early for us to hear traffic; later,

perhaps, we will.

BACK TO BARTON

Looking down at the page.

CLOSE ON BARTON'S FEET

Swinging in the legwell.

One foot idly swings over to nudge a pair of nicely shined

shoes from where they rest, under the secretary, into the

legwell.

We hear typing start.

THE PAGE

A new paragraph being started: "A large man..."

BARTON'S FEET

As he slides them into the shoes.

THE PAGE

"A large man in tights..."

The typing stops.

BARTON

Looking quizzically at the page. What's wrong?

HIS FEET

Sliding back and forth  swimming  in his shoes, which are

several sizes too large.

We hear a knock at the door.

BARTON

He rises and answers the door.

Charlie stands smiling in the doorway, holding a pair of

nicely shined shoes.

The two stocking-footed men go into the room and Barton

reaches under the secretary for Charlie's shoes.

Chalrie perches on the edge of the bed.

Smiling, he takes out his flask.

He takes a glass from the bedstand and, as he pours Barton a

shot:

He shakes his head.

He indicates his ear, still stuffed with cotton.

He gives a rueful chuckle.

Barton looks at him curiously.

He laughs.

Charlie laughs.

Barton smiles.

Barton rises and walks over to his writing table.

Barton scribbles on a notepad and turns to hand it to Charlie.

We hear a tacky, tearing sound.

Barton looks toward the door.

Charlie rises and walks over to the stand next to where Barton

sits.

The two staring men form an odd, motionless tableau  the

slight, bespectacled man seated; the big man standing in a

hunch with his hands on his thighs; their heads close

together.

THEIR POV

A swath of wallpaper in the entryway has pulled away from

the wall. It sags and nods.

THE TWO MEN

Frozen, looking.

He heads for the door and Barton follows.

Barton closes the door.

He goes back to the desk, sits, and stares at the typewriter.

After a beat he tips back in his chair and looks up at the

ceiling.

We hear a loud thump.

HIS POV

The ceiling  a white, seamless space.

As we track in the thumping continues  slowly, rhythmically,

progressively louder  the effect, it seems, of odd doings

upstairs.

LOOKING DOWN ON BARTON

From a high angle, tipped back in his chair, staring at the

ceiling.

We track slowly down toward him. The thumping continues,

growing louder, sharper.

HIS POV

Moving in on the ceiling. We close in on an unblemished area

and cease to have any sense of movement.

With a blur something huge and dark sweeps across the frame

to land with a deafening crash, and an instant later it is

gone, having left a huge black "T" stamped into the white

ceiling.

We are pulling back from the white, past the metal prongs of

the key-strike area on a typewriter. More letters appear

rapid-fire, growing smaller as the pull back continues. The

thumpimg becomes the clacking of the typewriter.

BEN GEISLER

Is emerging from his office.  As he enters the secretary

stops typing, glances down at a slip of paper, and murmurs

tonelessly, without looking up:

The clack of the typewriter resumes as Barton rises.

GEISLER'S OFFICE

The two men enter.

This office is considerably smaller than Lipnik's, done in

grays and black. There are pictures on the wall of Geisler

with various celebrities.

Geisler sits behind his desk.

Geisler leaps to his feet and paces.

Some puzzlement shows through Barton's weariness.

Geisler rubs a temple, studies Barton for a beat, then picks

up a telephone.

As he waits, Geisler gives Barton a withering stare. It

continues throughout the phone conversation.

He slams down the phone.

He jots an address on a piece of paper and hands it to Barton.

SCREEN

Black-and-white footage. A middle-aged man with a clapstick

enters and shouts:

Clap! The clapper withdraws. The angle is on a corner of the

ring, where an old corner man stands behind his charge, a

huge man in tights who is a little too flabby to be a real

athlete. His hair is plastered against his bullet skull and

he has a small mustache.

The wrestler rises from his stool and heads toward center

ring and the camera. He affects a German accent:

He passes the camera.

Flash frames.

The clapper enters again.

Clap! He exits.

The wrestler moves toward the camera.

The clapper enters

Clap!

SLOW TRACK IN ON BARTON

Seated alone in a dark screening room, the shaft of the

projection beam flickering over his left shoulder.

As we creep in closer:

Another off-microphone, distant voice from the screen:

THE SCREEN

A jerky pan, interrupted by flash frames. The wrestler is

standing in a corner joking with a makeup girl who pats down

his face as he smokes a cigarette.

A cut in the film and another clapstick enters.

ON THE CLAP:

BACK TO BARTON

Staring at the screen, dull, wan, and forlorn.

THE SCREEN

The angle is low  canvas level. We hold for a brief moment

on the empty canvas before two wrestlers crash down into

frame.

The German is underneath, on his back, pinned by the other

man.

The referee enters, cropped at the knees, and throws counting

fingers down into frame.

The German bucks and throws his opponent out of frame.

Crash.

BARTON

Glazed.

PAGE IN TYPEWRITER

The screaming drops out abruptly at cut. We hear only the

sound of heavy footfalls on carpet.

Below the opening paragraph, two new words have been added

to the typescript:

"Orphan?"

"Dame?"

The foot falls continue.

THE HOTEL ROOM

Night. Barton paces frantically back and forth.

He looks at his watch.

HIS POV

It is 12:30.

CLOSE ON THE PHONE

It is lifted out of the cradle.

We pull back to frame in Barton as we hear his call ring

through.  Barton sweats.

Through the phone, in the background, we hear Mayhew's drunken

bellowing.

We hear various objects dropping or being thrown to the floor.

There is more clatter.

Audrey's voice is hushed, close to the phone:

WIDE ON THE ROOM

Later. It is quiet. We are craning down toward the bed, where

Barton lies stretched out, his head buried beneath a pillow

as if to blot out the world.

The track reveals the wristwatch on Barton's dangled arm:

1:30.

THE HALLWAY

At the end of the dimly lit corridor a red light blinks on

over the elevator, with a faint bell.

BACK TO BARTON

With two violent and simultaneous motions he whips the pillow

off his head and throws out his other wrist to look at his

watch.

There is a knock at the door.

Barton swings his feet off the bed.

THE DOORWAY

Barton opens the door to Audrey.

They enter the main room, where Audrey perches on the edge

of the bed.

Barton paces.

Audrey laughs.

She laughs  then stops, realizing that she has laughed. She

looks at Barton.

She shakes her head.

Barton's pacing comes up short.

Guardedly:

Audrey is clearly reluctant to travel this path.

He resumes pacing.

Barton sighs and looks at his watch.

He sits down next to Audrey. Audrey's tone is gentle.

She strokes Barton's hair.

She kisses him.

As Barton tentatively responds, we are panning away.

We frame up on the door to the bathroom and track in toward

the sink. We can hear the creak of bedsprings and Audrey and

Barton's breath, becoming labored.

The continuing track brings us up to and over the lid of the

sink to frame up its drain, a perfect black circle in the

porcelain white.  We track up to the drain and are enveloped

by it as the sound of lovemaking mixes into the groaning of

pipes.

BARTON

The hum of a mosquito brings us out of the black and we are

looking down at Barton, in bed, asleep. It is dawn.

Barton's eyes snap open.

HIS POV

The white ceiling. A humming black speck flits across the

white.

BARTON

Slowly, cautiously, he props himself up, his look following

the sound of the mosquito.

His gaze travels down and to one side and is arrested as the

hum stops.

HIS POV

Audrey lies facing away on her side of the bed, half covered

by a blanket.

BARTON

Gingerly, he reaches over and draws the blanket down Audrey's

back.

HIS POV

The alabaster white of Audrey's back.

The mosquito is feeding on it.

EXTREME CLOSE ON BARTON'S EYES

Looking.

EXTREME CLOSE ON THE MOSQUITO

Swelling with blood.

WIDER

As Barton's hand comes through frame and slaps Audrey's back.

She doesn't react.

Barton draws his hand away. Audrey's back is smeared with

blood.

ON BARTON

He looks at his hand.

HIS POV

His hand is dripping with blood. Too much blood.

BACK TO BARTON

Eyes wide, he looks down at the bed.

HIS POV

Blood seeps up into the sheet beneath the curve of Audrey's

back.

BARTON

He pulls Audrey's shoulder.

AUDREY

She rolls onto her back. Her eyes are wide and lifeless.

Her stomach is nothing but blood. The top sheet, drawn to

her waist is drenched red and clings to her body.

BARTON

He screams.

He screams again.

We hear rapid and heavy footfalls next door, a door opening

and closing, and then a loud banging on Barton's door.

Barton's head spins towards the door. He is momentarily

frozen.

Another knock.

Barton leaps to his feet and hurries to the door.

THE DOORWAY

Over Barton's shoulder as he cracks the door.

Charlie stands in the hall in his boxer shorts and a

sleeveless tee.

Barton stares dumbly for a moment.

Barton is nodding as he shuts the door in Charlie's face.

He walks back into the room.

HIS POV

Audrey's corpse, in long shot, face up on the bed.

BARTON

He walks toward the bed, wheels before he reaches it, and

starts back toward the door.

He stops short and turns back again to the room. He averts

his eyes  as it happens, toward the secretary.

He walks stiffly over and sits, his back to Audrey.

CLOSE ON BARTON

As he sits in. He stares emptily down at the desk, in shock,

totally shut down. Behind him, we can see Audrey on the bed.

He stares for a long beat.

Strange, involuntary noises come from his throat. He is not

in control.

Becoming aware of the noise he is making, he stops.

He lurches to his feet.

THE DOORWAY

As Barton enters, opens the door, and sticks his head out.

HALLWAY

Barton peers out the see if the coast is clear.

HIS POV

The long hallway.

In the deep background, Chet, the night clerk, is stooping

in front of a door to pick up a pair of shoes. Next to him

is a castored shoe caddy.

All of the doorways between us and Chet are empty of shoes.

CHET

Close on him as, mid-stoop, he looks up.

CHET'S POV

Up the long hall. In the deep background a door is closing.

CHET

He pauses, then straightens up and puts the shoes on the

shoe caddy. It squeaks as he pushes it on down the hall.

BARTON'S ROOM

Barton stands at the door, listening to a very faint squeak.

Eventually it becomes inaudible.

He cracks the door again, looks out, and exits.

HALLWAY

Barton goes to Charlie's room and knocks.

Footfalls end as the door is cracked open.

Once again he is breathing hard.

Charlie steps out into the hall and shuts the door behind

him.

Charlie leads him towards his room.

He is pushing Barton's door open, but Barton grabs an elbow

to stop him.

Charlie looks into his eyes. For a moment the two men stare

at each other  Charlie's look inquisitive, Barton's

supplicating.

Finally, Charlie nods.

He turns and pushes open the door.

BARTON'S ROOM

The two men enter.

Barton lingers by the door. Charlie walks into the foreground

to look off toward the bed.

His eyes widen and he screams.

He turns and disappears into the bathroom. We hear vomiting,

then the flush of a toilet.

His reaction has not encouraged Barton, who is more and more

agitated.

Charlie emerges from the bathroom, sweating.

Charlie, in spite of himself, is sneaking horrified glances

back into the room.

Barton gives him a dumb stare.

Barton stares at Charlie. He swallows.

Charlie shakes his head.

He turns and starts toward the bed.

BATHROOM

Later. Barton, still in his underwear, sits leaning against

the wall, staring glassily at his feet.

From the other room we hear the creak of bedsprings and the

sounds of bed clothes being torn off.

Finally there is a last creak of bedsprings and the sound of

Charlie grunting under great weight.

We hear heavy footsteps approaching.

Barton looks up through the open bathroom door.

HIS POV

Charlie is groping for the front doorknob, cradling the

sheetswaddled body in his arms.

BACK TO BARTON

His neck goes rubbery. His eyes roll up. His head lolls back

to hit the wall.

BLACK

Slap! Slap!

We are low on Charlie, who is following through on a slap

and backing away, having aroused Barton. Charlie is now

wearing pants but is still in his sleeveless tee, which has

blood flecks across the belly.

Barton looks groggily up.

TRACKING IN ON BARTON

He stares at Charlie.

Barton looks at his watch.

THE WATCH

7:45.

TRACKING

Toward a pool set in a grand yard with shaped hedges and

statuary set amid palms trees.

Sunlight glitters angrily off the water; we are approaching

Jack Lipnik who sits poolside in a white deck chair.

REVERSE

Pulling Barton, who is being escorted by Lou Breeze.

Barton is haggard, sunken eyes squinting against too much

sun.

As Barton sits:

He laughs, then barks at Lou Breeze.

Lou exits.

He beams expectantly at Barton.  Barton licks his parched

lips.

Lipnik is nodding, already involved in the story.

Barton looks back out at the pool, his eyes closed to slits

against the sun. He looks back at Lipnik.

Lou has entered with a drink, which he sets next to Barton.

Lou sits.

Barton looks around, takes the drink, sips at it greedily,

but must finally take the plunge.

Lipnik stares at him. His smile has disappeared. There is a

long beat.

Lou Breeze clears his throat. He apparently feels obliged to

fill the silence.

Lipnik has turned to look curiously at Lou.

Lou looks at Barton, expectantly. Lipnik continues to stare

at Lou.

There is a long silence, terribly heavy.

Finally, Lipnik explodes  at Lou.

Lou Breeze is stunned.

Barton is staring, aghast.

Lipnik, still staring at Lou, gives no sign of hearing Barton.

He rises and points.

Lou, aghast, looks at Barton.

Barton, aghast, can only return the same stunned look.

Lipnik snarls at Lou:

Lou gets stiffly to his feet and stumbles away.

He gets down on his knees in front of Barton.

Barton stares, horrified, at Lipnik, on the ground at his

feet.

BARTON'S POV

Lipnik kisses his shoe and looks up at him.

Behind Lipnik the pool glitters.

BARTON'S ROOM

The cut has a hard musical sting. Out of the sting comes a

loud but distorted thumping noise.

We are looking down, high angle, form one corner of the room.

We are presented with a motionless tableau: Barton sits,

hunched, in the far corner, elbows on knees, staring at the

bed in front of him. He wears only trousers and a T-shirt

and his body and face glisten with sweat. The bed's sheets

have been stripped and the ratty gray mattress has an enormous

rust-red stain in the middle.

After a beat, in the foreground, the only motion in the scene:

A bead of tacky yellow wall-sweat dribbles down the near

wall.

Silence, then the thumping repeats, resolving itself to a

knock at the door.

Barton rises slowly and crosses to the door.

THE DOOR

Barton opens it to Charlie, who is dressed in a baggy suit,

his hair slicked back, a tan fedora pushed back on his head.

It is the first time we have seen him well turned out.

A battered briefcase is on the floor next to him. He holds a

parcel in his left hand, about one foot square, wrapped in

brown paper and tied up with twine.

Barton stands back from the door and Charlie picks up his

briefcase and enters.

THE ROOM

As the two men enter.

Barton sounds desperate:

He starts weeping

Charlie, also disturbed and unhappy, wraps both arms around

Barton.

Barton sobs unashamedly into his shoulder. Charlie is somber.

His breath comes in short gasping heaves.

He looks at Barton for a beat.

Charlie hands him his parcel.

Barton, snuffling, accepts the package.

Still snuffling:

Wallowing in self-pity:

He thumps his chest.

Barton is tearfully sincere:

Charlie solemnly thrusts out his hand.

Barton shakes. As they walk to the door:

Barton shuts the door behind Charlie, locks it, and turns

around.

HIS POV

The room. The bed. The blood-stained mattress.

Barton walks across the room and sits carefully at the edge

of the bed, avoiding the rust-colored stain. For a long beat,

he sits still, but something is building inside.

Finally, when we hear the distant ding of the elevator

arriving for Charlie, it erupts:

Barton sobs, with the unself-conscious grief of an abandoned

child.

HIGH WIDE SHOT

Barton weeping, alone on the bed, next to the rust-colored

stain.

BATHING BEAUTY

With the fade in, the sound of the surf mixes up.

We pan down the picture to discover that a snapshot has been

tucked into a corner of the picture frame: it is the snap of

Charlie, smiling and waving, with his foot up on the running

board of the 1939 Ford roadster.

BARTON

Sitting at the desk, staring at the picture. From his glazed

eyes and the way his mouth hangs open, we may assume he has

been staring at the picture for some time.

He notices something on the desk and picks it up.

HIS POV

The Holy Bible  Placed by the Gideons.

Barton opens it, randomly, to the Book of Daniel. The text

is set in ornately Gothic type.

"5. And the king, Nebuchadnezzar, answered and said to the

Chaldeans, I recall not my dream; if ye will not make known

unto me my dream, and its interpretation, ye shall be cut in

pieces, and of your tents shall be made a dunghill."

BARTON

Staring at the passage. His mouth hangs open.

THE BIBLE

Barton riffles to the first page.

In bold type at the top:

"THE BOOK OF GENESIS"

Underneath, in the same ornately Gothic type:

"Chapter One 1. Fade in on a tenement building on Manhattan's

Lower East Side.  Faint traffic noise is audible; 2. As is

the cry of fishmongers."

BARTON

Squinting at the page through bloodshot eyes.

His mouth hangs open.

BARTON'S ROOM  DAY

At the cut the harsh clackety-clack of typing bangs in.

Sunlight burns against the sheers of Barton's window, making

it a painfully bright patch in the room which itself remains

fairly dim.

Barton sits at the secretary, typing furiously.

He finishes a page, yanks it out of the carriage, and places

it face-down on a short stack of face-down pages.

He feeds in a blank sheet and resumes his rapid typing. He

is sweating, unshaven, and more haggard even than when we

left him the previous night.

The telephone rings. After several rings Barton stops typing

and answers it, absently, still looking at his work. His

voice is hoarse.

He puts the receiver down on the desk, leans over the

typewriter, and examines something he has just written.

He picks the phone back up and listens for a beat.

ELEVATOR

A small oscillating fan whirs up in a corner of the elevator.

We pan down to Barton, who is riding down with Pete, the old

elevator operator. Barton's voice is hoarse with fatigue.

Barton nods.

They ride for a beat.

LOBBY

Late afternoon sun slants in from one side. The lobby has

the same golden ambiance as when first we saw it.

Barton is walking toward two wing chairs in the shadows,

from which two men in suits are rising. One is tall, the

other short.

All three sit in ancient maroon swing chairs. Mastrionotti

perches on the edge of his chair; Deutsch slumps back in the

shadows, studying Barton.

Still hoarse:

He is holding a small black-and-white photograph out toward

Barton.

There is a long beat as Barton studies the picture.

Deutsch indicates Mastrionotti.

Mastrionotti looks at Deutsch. Deutsch looks at Mastrionotti.

After a beat, Mastrionotti looks back at Barton.

Mastrionotti gets to his feet, looking around the lobby.

He digs in his pocket.

He hands Barton a card.

BARTON'S ROOM

We are tracking toward the paper-wrapped parcel that sits on

the nightstand next to Barton's bed.

Barton enters and picks it up. He holds it for a beat, looking

at it, then brings it over to the secretary and sits.

He shakes it.

No sound; whatever is inside is well packed.

Barton holds it up to his ear and listens for a long beat,

as if it were a seashell and he is listening for the surf.

Finally he puts it on his desk, beneath the picture of the

bathing beauty, and starts typing, quickly and steadily.

REVERSE

Some time later; Barton still types. He is face to us; beyond

him we can see the bed with its rust-colored stain.

The phone rings. Barton ignores it. It continues to ring.

Barton rises and exits frame; we hold on to the bed in the

background. We hear Barton's footsteps on the bathroom tile

as the phone continues ringing.

Barton sits back into frame stuffing cotton into each ear.

He resumes typing.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Barton typing. The desk trembles under the working of the

typewriter.  Charlie's parcel chatters.

Barton takes a finished page out of the carriage and places

it face down on the growing stack to his right. He feeds in

a new page. We hear the muted ding of the elevator down the

hall. Barton resumes typing.

We hear a knock on Barton's door. Barton does not react,

apparently not hearing.

THE DOORWAY

We are close on the bottom of the door. Someone in the hallway

is sliding a note beneath the door; then his shadow disappears

and his footsteps recede.

The note is a printed message headed: "While You Were Out...

" Underneath are the printed words: "You were called by"

and, handwritten in the space following: "Mr. Ben Geisler."

Handwritten below, in the message space:

"Thank you. Lipnik loved your meeting. Keep up the good work."

Barton's offscreen typing continues steadily.

HALLWAY

A perfectly symmetrical wide low angle shot of the empty

hall.  Shoes are set put in front of each door except for

one in the middle background.

At the cut in we hear faint, regular typing.

We hold for a beat. There is no motion. The long, empty hall.

The distant typing.

We hold.

The typing stops. There is a beat of quiet.

It is broken by the sound of a door opening. It is the

shoeless door in the middle background.

A hand reaches out to place a pair of shoes in the doorway.

The hand withdraws.

The door closes.

A short beat of silence.

The distant typing resumes.

The long empty hall. The distant typing.

OVER THE BLACK

We hear the distant sound of a woman's voice, tinny and

indistinct.

CLOSE ON BARTON

His eyes are red-rimmed and wild. He sits on the edge of his

bed holding the phone to his ear.

His voice is unnaturally loud:

He stops, reaches up, takes a cotton wad out of his ear.

We hear various clicks and clacks as the telephone lines

switch, and then a distant ring. The phone rings three or

four times before it is answered by a groggy voice.

Muffled, we hear Garland speaking to someone else.

Back into the receiver:

Guardedly:

Bitterly:

He slams down the phone.

OVER HIS SHOULDER

A one-quarter shot on Barton from behind as he picks up the

cotton wad and sticks it back in his right ear.

He resumes typing, furiously.

After a beat he mutters, still typing.

THE BATHING BEAUTY

Later. We hear typing and the roar of the surf.'

CLOSE ON TYPEWRITER

We are extremely close on the key-strike area. As we cut in

Barton is typing:

"p-o-s-t-c-a-r-d-."

The carriage returns a couple of times and "T-H-EE-N-D" is

typed in.

The paper is ripped out of the carriage.

CLOSE ON A STACK OF PAGES

Lying face down on the desk; the last page is added, face

down, to the pile.  The pile is picked up, its edges are

straightened with a couple of thumps against the desktop,

and then the pile is replaced on the desk, face up.  The

title page reads:

"THE BURLYMAN

Motion Picture Scenario

By

Barton Fink"

Barton's right hand enters frame to deposit a small cotton

wad on top of the script.

Barton's left hand enters to deposit another small cotton

wad on top of the script.

We hear Barton walk away. We hear bath water run.

THE BATHING BEAUTY

Still looking out to sea.

USO HALL

We are booming down to the dance floor as a raucous band

plays an up-tempo number.

BARTON

Dancing animatedly, almost maniacally, his fingers jabbing

the air.

The hall is crowded, but Barton is one of few men not in

uniform.

USO GIRL

Giggling, dancing opposite Barton.

BARTON

Caught up in his dancing, oblivious to the girl.

A white uniformed arm reaches in to tap Barton on the

shoulder.

Barton glares at him.

For some reason, Barton is angry.

His bellowing has drawn onlookers' attention.

Barton turns furiously against the crowd.

He taps his skull.

WHAPP! An infantry man tags Barton's chin on the button.

Bodies surge. The crowd gasps. The band blares nightmarishly

on.

HOTEL HALLWAY

Quiet at the cut.

After a beat, there is a faint ding at the end of the hall

and, as the elevator door opens, we faintly hear:

Barton, disheveled, emerges and stumbles wearily down the

hall. He stops in front of his door, takes his key out, and

enters the room.

BARTON'S POV

Mastrionotti is sitting on the edge of the bed reading

Barton's manuscript.

Deutsch stands in front of the desk staring at the bathing

beauty.

He looks up at Barton.

Deutsch turns toward Barton and throws a folded newspaper at

him.

Barton opens the paper. A headline reads: Writer Found

Headless in Chavez Ravine. The story has two pictures  a

studio publicity portrait of Mayhew, and a photograph of the

crime scene: two plainclothes detectives stare down into a

gulley as a uniformed cop restrains a pair of leashed dogs.

With a jerk of his thumb, Mastrionotti indicates the

bloodstained bed.

Barton crosses the room and sits at the foot of the bed,

staring at the newspaper.

Distractedly:

Barton rubs his temples.

Barton seems oblivious to the two men.

Down the hall we hear the ding of the arriving elevator.

Mastrionotti cocks his head with a quizzical look.

He rises and walks slowly out into the hall. Deutsch wathces

him go.

HIS POV

Mastrionotti in the hallway in full shot, framed by the door,

still looking puzzled.

Deutsch stands and pushes his suit coat back past the gun on

his hip, revealing a pair of handcuffs on his belt. He

unhitches the cuffs and slips one around Barton's right wrist

and the other around a loop in the wrought iron footboard of

the bed.

THE HALLWAY

As Deutsch joins Mastrionotti.

Deutsch looks where Mastrionotti is looking.

THE WALL

Tacky yellow fluid streams down. The walls are pouring sweat.

The hallway is quiet.

MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH

They look at each other. They look down the hall.

THEIR POV

The elevator stands open at the far end of the empty hall.

For a long beat, nothing.

Finally Pete, the elevator man, emerges.

At this distance, he is a small figure, stumbling this way

and that, his hands presseed against the sides of his head.

He turns to face Mastrionotti and Deutsch and takes a few

steps forward, still clutching his head.

MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH

Watching.

PETE

He takes on last step, then collapses.

As he pitches forward his hands fall away from his head. His

head separates from his neck, hits the floor, and rolls away

from his body with a dull irregular trundle sound.

MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH

Wide-eyed, they look at each other, then back down the hall.

All is quiet.

THE HALLWAY

Smoke is beginning to drift into the far end of the hall.

We hear a muted rumble.

MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH

Mastrionotti tugs at his tie. He slowly unholsters his gun.

Deutsch slowly, hypnotically, follows suit.

More quiet.

THE HALLWAY

More smoke.

LOW STEEP ANGLE ON ELEVATOR DOOR

The crack where the floor of the elevator meets that of the

hall.

It flickers with red light from below. Bottom-lit smoke sifts

up.

CLOSE ON MASTRIONOTTI

Standing in the foreground, gun at ready. Sweat pours down

his face.

Behind him, Deutsch stands nervously in the light-spill from

Barton's doorway.

The rumble and crackle of fire grows louder.

THE HALLWAY

More smoke.

PATCH OF WALL

Sweating.

A swath of wallpaper sags away from the top of the wall,

exposing glistening lath underneath.

With a light airy pop, the lathwork catches on fire.

MASTRIONOTTI AND DEUTSCH

Sweating.

THEIR POV

The hallway. Its end-facing-wall slowly spreads flame from

where the wallpaper droops.

LOW STEEP ANGLE ON ELEVATOR DOOR

More red bottom-lit smoke seeps up from the crack between

elevator and hallway floors.

With a groan of tension relieved cables and a swaying of the

elevator door, a pair of feet crosses the threshold into the

doorway.

JUMPING BACK

Wide on the hallway. Charlie Meadows has emerged from the

elevator and is hellishly backlit by the flame.

His suit coat hangs open. His hat is pushed back on his head.

From his right hand his briefcase dangles.

He stands motionless, facing us. There is something monumental

in his posture, shoulders thrown back.

MASTRIONOTTI

Tensed. Behind him, Deutsch gulps.

CHARLIE

He leans slowly down to put the briefcase on the floor.

CLOSE ON MASTRIONOTTI

Relax. He murmurs:

BACK TO CHARLIE

He straightens up from the briefcase, a sawed-off shotgun in

his hands.

BOOM! The shotgun spits fire.

Mastrionotti's face is peppered by buckshot and he is blown

back down the hallway into Deutsch.

Bellowing fills the hallway over the roar of the fire:

THE HALLWAY

The fire starts racing down the hallway.

CLOSE STEEP ANGLE ON PATCH OF WALL

Fire races along the wall-sweat goopus.

TRACK IN ON DEUTSCH

His eyes widen at Charlie and the approaching fire; his gun

dangles forgotten from his right hand.

HIS POV

Charlie is charging down the hallway, holding his shotgun

loosely in front of his chest, in double-time position. The

fire races along with him.

He is bellowing:

DEUTSCH

Terrified, he turns and runs.

REVERSE PULLING DEUTSCH

As he runs down the flaming hallway, pursued by flames, smoke,

and Karl Mundt  who, also on the run, levels his shotgun.

BOOM!

PUSHING DEUTSCH

His legs and feet spout blood, paddle futilely at the air,

then come down in a twisting wobble, like a car on blown

tires, and pitch him helplessly to the floor.

PULLING CHARLIE

He slows to a trot and cracks open the shotgun.

PUSHING DEUTSCH

Weeping and dragging himself forward on his elbows.

PULLING CHARLIE

He slows to a walk.

BARTON'S ROOM

Barton strains at his handcuffs.

HIS POV

Through the open doorway we see Charlie pass, pushing two

shells into his shotgun.

PULLING DEUTSCH

Charlie looms behind him and  THWACK  snaps the shotgun

closed.

Deutsch rolls over to rest on his elbows, facing Charlie.

Charlie primes the shotgun  CLACK.

He presses both barrels against the bridge of Deutsh's nose.

DEUTSCH

Screams.

CHARLIE

Tightens a finger over both triggers. He squeezes.

BLAM!

TRACK IN ON BARTON

He flinches.

The gunshot echoes away.

Barton strains at the handcuffs.

We hear Charlie's footsteps approach  slowly, heavily.

THE DOORWAY

Charlie, walking down the hall, glances in and seems mildly

surprised to see Barton. The set of his jaw relaxes. His

expression softens. He pushes his hat farther back on his

head.

He shakes is head and whistles.

He walks into the room.

BARTON'S ROOM

As Charlie wearily enters.

He props the shotgun in a corner and sits facing Barton, who

stared at him.

Charlie reaches a flask from his pocket.

He takes a long draught from his flask, then gives a haunted

stare.

Charlie is perspiring heavily. The fire rumbles in the

hallway.

He reached up to loosen his tie and pop his collar button.

He stares miserably down at his feet.

Self-pity:

A tacky yellow fluid is dripping from Charlie's left ear and

running down his cheek.

He pulls some cotton from his pocket and plugs his ear.

His voice is becoming choked.

He looks up at Barton.

There is a long silence.

Finally:

Wearily:

He rises to his feet and kneels in front of Barton at the

foot of the bed.

The two men regard each other.

Charlie grabs two bars of the footboard frame, still staring

at Barton. His muscles tighten, though nothing moves. His

neck fans with effort. All of his muscles tense.  His face

is a reddening grimace.

With a shriek of protest, the metal gives. The bar to which

Barton is handcuffed had come loose at the top and Barton

slides the cuff off it, free.

Charlie gets to his feet.

He takes his shotgun and walks to the door.

A thought stops him at the door and he turns to face Barton.

Behind him the hallway blazes.

He smiles. Barton looks at him dumbly.

He leaves.

Barton rises, picks up Charlie's parcel, and his script.

THE HALLWAY

As Barton emerges. Flames lick the walls, causing the

wallpaper to run with the tack glue sap. Smoke fills the

hallway. Barton looks down the hall.

HIS POV

Charlie stands in front of the door to his room, his briefcase

dangling from one hand, his other hand fumbling in his pocket

for his key.

With his hat pushed back on his head and his shoulders slumped

with fatigue, he could be any drummer returning to any hotel

after a long hard day on the road.

He opens the door and goes into his room.

BACK TO BARTON

He turns and walks up the hallway, his script in one hand,

the parcel in the other.

A horrible moaning sound  almost human  can be heard under

the roar of the fire.

BLACKNESS

STUDIO HALLWAY

We are tracking laterally across the lobby of an executive

building. From offscreen we hear:

Filtered through phone:

Our track has brought Barton into frame in the foreground,

unshaven, unkempt, bellowing into the telephone. In a hallway

in the background, a secretary gestures for Barton to hurry

up.

Barton slams down the phone.

LIPNIK'S OFFICE

Barton enters, still clinging on to Charlie's parcel.

Lou Breeze stands in one corner censoriously watching Barton.

Lipnik is at the far end of the room, gazing out the window.

He turns to face Barton and we see that he is wearing a

smartly pressed uniform with a lot of fruit salad on the

chest.

Barton takes a seat facing Lipnik's desk.

He taps distastefully at the script on his desk, which has a

slightly charred title page.

Listlessly:

This sets Lipnik off:

THE SURF

Crashing against the Pacific shore.

THE BEACH

At midday, almost deserted. In the distance we see Barton

walking.

The paper-wrapped parcel swings from the twine in his left

hand.

BARTON

He walks a few more paces and sits down on the sand, looking

out to see. His gaze shifts to one side.

HIS POV

Down the beach, a bathing beauty walks along the edge of the

water. She looks much like the picture on the wall in Barton's

hotel room.

BARTON

He stares, transfixed, at the woman.

THE WOMAN

Very beautiful, backlit by the sun, approaching.

BARTON

Following her with his eyes.

THE WOMAN

Her eyes meet Barton's. She says something, but her voice is

lost in the crash of the surf.

Barton cups a hand to his ear.

Barton shrugs and shakes his head.

She nods and sits down on the sand several paces away from

him, facing the water but looking back over her shoulder at

Barton.

She laughs.

She turns away to look out at the sea.

WIDER

Facing the ocean. Barton sits in the middle foreground, back

to us, the box in the sand next to him.

The bathing beauty sits, back to us, in the middle background.

The surf pounds.

The sun sparkles off the water.

THE END

