INT. CHEERLESS ROOM - DAY

The room is bare, dusty. A ceiling fan turns. The

wall clock ticks. Craig, 30 years old and small, sits at

a collapsible card table. The only item on the table is a

book. Craig picks it up, looks at the jacket. It's entitled

"Sit." Craig opens the book. It reads: "sit sit sit sit

sit..." over and over, page after page. Craig closes the

book. He begins to stand, but thinks better of it, sighs.

He looks at the book again. It is now entitled "Die."  He

opens it up.  "die die die die die..."  A rooster crows.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Craig jolts awake. A rooster stands on Craig's chest,

crowing. Lotte, also 30, in the middle of dressing for

work, hurries in and pulls the bird from Craig's chest.

Lotte leans down and kisses Craig on the forehead.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE' S GARAGE - MORNING

The place is a mess. Vivaldi blasts through cheap speakers.

A small marionette stage stands in the back of the garage.

The stage is lit and on it is a finely sculpted puppet

version of Craig. The "Craig" puppet paces back and forth,

wringing its hands with incredible subtlety. We see Craig,

above and behind the stage. He is manipulating the puppet.

His fingers move fast and furious. The puppet breaks into

a dance, a beautiful and intricate balletic piece. Soon the

puppet is leaping and tumbling through space, moves that one

would think impossible for a marionette. Sweat appears on

the real Craigs brow. His fingers move like lightning. The

puppet moves faster and faster. Sweat appears on the puppet's

brow. We see that the sweat is being piped from a special

device that the real Craig controls. The Craig puppet

collapses on the floor of the stage. It puts its hands up to

its face and weeps. Craig hangs the puppet, and comes down

around the front of the stage. He is heaving. He switches

off the music, picks up a beer and takes a swig.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

The room is filled with penned and unpenned animals of all

kinds: snakes, lizards, birds, a dog, cats, etc. Craig sits

on the couch and looks at the want ads, the TV is on in the

background. Elijah, the monkey, sits next to Craig holding

his stomach and moaning weakly. On the TV, Derek Mantini is

working a 60 foot high marionette from the top of a water tower.

The assembled crowd is enthralled.

Charles Nelson Reilly floats by in a hot air balloon.

Craig switches off the TV. He comes across an ad for a

female puppeteer to teach at a girls school. Craig rubs

his chin in thought, then stands with great determination.

MUSIC IN: TRIUMPHANT

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Craig searches through Lotte's closet, looking for the

right dress.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BATHROOM - DAY

Craig waxes his body, shaves his face.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Craig paints his nails while he chats on the phone. Craig

pulls stockings and underwear from Lotte's drawer. Craig

picks a wig from a mannequin head on Lotte's dressing table.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Craig, at the sewing machine, is sewing padding to go onto

his chest and around his hips.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BATHROOM - DAY

Craig applies make up in the bathroom mirror.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Craig, now looking very much like a woman, admires himself

in the full length mirror.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Craig hails a taxi in his get-up. Men on the street turn

and leer at him.

INT. HEADMISTRESSS OFFICE - DAY

Craig and the headmistress chat over tea. Craig is quite

animated and charming. The admiring headmistress smiles

and nods her head in approval.

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Craig instructs a class of uniformed girls. He draws

complex diagrams of puppets on the blackboard. The

students are transfixed, except for one troubled girl who

eyes Craig sullenly from the back of the room as she plays

with a switchblade.

INT. THEATER - DAY

Craig guides the hands of the troubled teenage girl, who

is trying to manipulate a marionette. The girl looks up

at Craig. Her tough facade crumbles and she smiles. Craig

smiles back.

EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - DAY

The girls carry Craig on their shoulders. Everyone is joyous.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Craig leads the girls in a bike race. Everyone is laughing

and screaming. One of the girls notices that Craig is

riding a man's bike.

MUSIC OUT.

INT. JAIL CELL - NIGHT

Craig sits in a holding cell with several other men. He is

still in the dress, but the wig is in his lap and the

make-up is smeared off. Lotte appears with a cop outside

Craig's cell. The door is opened, and Craig, Lotte, and

the cop head down the hall.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Lotte drives. Craig looks out the window. Both are silent.

They drive in silence.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Craig sits on the couch in his bathrobe and studies the

want ads. He sees an ad for a company called "WOMYN-TEERS",

looking for "an African-American, Lesbian Separatist

Puppeteer for Community Outreach." Craig rubs his chin in

thought, stands with determination.

MUSIC IN: SAME AS BEFORE.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BATHROOM - MORNING

Craig applies a dark pancake make-up to his face.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Craig pulls an afro-style wig off a mannequin head on

Lotte's dressing table.

EXT. STREET - MORNING

Craig, now made up to look like a black, lesbian

separatist, hails a cab. Women look at him longingly.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Craig, dressed as the black lesbian and beaten to a pulp.

sits in the passenger seat. Lotte drives.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Craig reads the paper. He comes across an ad: "Female

puppeteer wanted for nudist colony marionette staging of

'Oh, Calcutta!'"  Craig rubs his chin.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Craig sits in the passenger seat. He is made up as a

woman and wears a full-body rubber "naked woman" suit.

Lotte drives.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE' S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Craig sees a personal ad: "Male puppeteer looking for

attractive female puppeteer for friendship, travel, and

much much more."  Craig rubs his chin, then thinks better

of it and sighs. He finds a want ad calling for a

"short-statured file clerk with unusually nimble and

dexterous fingers needed for speed filing."  Craig writes

down the address.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING LOBBY - DAY

Craig. in sport coat and tie, studies the business listings

board. He finds LesterCorp, and sees that it is located on

floor 7 1/2. Craig presses the elevator button and waits.

Another man comes and waits next to him. The doors open,

and Craig and the other man get in.

INT. ELEVATOR - CONTINUOUS

The other man presses "9." Craig studies the buttons. There

is no "7 1/2."

The man picks up a crowbar leaning in the corner. He

watches the floor numbers light up in succession. After

"7" and before "8", the man hits the emergency stop button.

The elevator slams to a halt. The man pries open the doors

with the crowbar. Revealed is a standard office building

hallway, except that from floor to ceiling it is only about

four feet high. Everything is scaled down accordingly.

The number on the wall across from the elevator is 7 1/2.

Craig climbs out onto the 7 1/2 floor.

INT. SEVEN AND A HALF FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Craig, hunched-over, makes his way down the hallway

looking for LesterCorp. He passes a hunched-over man

walking in the other direction. They nod to each other.

Craig finds a door marked "LesterCorp - Meeting America's

Filing Needs Since 1922."  He enters.

INT. LESTERCORP RECEPTION AREA - CONTINUOUS

All furniture is scaled down to fit into this low-ceilinged

space. A few other short men sit reading tiny magazines.

Craig approaches Floris, the receptionist.

Craig takes a seat next to the other applicants.

The intercom buzzes. Floris picks it up.

Craig stands, opens Lester's door, and enters.

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Craig enters. Lester, a giant of an old man, sits hunched

behind his tiny desk.

Lester flips an intercom switch.

Lester hands Craig a bunch of index cards. Craig orders

them with amazing speed and dexterity. Lester watches,

eyes wide.

INT. ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY

It's a small screening room with red velvet seats. There

are a few people scattered about the squat theater. Craig

is among them. He looks around the room and his eyes rest

momentarily on Maxine. She is in her late 20's with close

cropped black hair. Her eyes are opaque, her face

expressionless, her countenance trance-like. She glances

over at Craig, then turns back to the screen. The lights

dim. A projector whirs and the screen is illuminated.

EXT. OFFICE BUILDING - DAY

We tilt up the building.

MUSIC:	Perky Industrial Film Music.

TITLE:	The 7 1/2 Floor

INT. 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

Don and Wendy, two office workers, crouch in the hall and

chat. Both hold cups of coffee.

OLD FOOTAGE OF CONSTRUCTION CREW WORKING.

INT. 19TH CENTURY OFFICE - DAY

An actor playing Mertin sits at a desk and writes with

aquill. He appears very stern and has mutton chop

sideburns.

There is a knock at the door.

A tiny woman enters.

Mertin wipes a tear from his eye.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

Don And Wendy crouch and talk.

TITLE:	The End

INT. ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY

The screen goes dark. The lights go up. Craig looks over

at Maxine. She stands and walks past him.

Maxine walks away.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE' S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Lotte chops onions. A parrot sits on her head. Craig stirs

a pot on the stove. A monkey leaps from the top of the

cabinet to the top of the refrigerator to the kitchen table.

A dog watches the monkey and barks at it.

The dog continues to bark.

An offscreen neighbor pounds the wall.

Lotte grabs the parrot off her head and leaves the room.

Lotte reenters.

The doorbell rings. The dog barks. The parrot screams.

The neighbor pounds on the wall.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The dining room table is set up. Craig and Lotte and their

friends Peter and Gloria are seated and eating dinner. There

is an obvious lull in the conversation.

There is another lull. Everyone eats.

INT. PETER AND GLORIA'S CAR - NIGHT

Gloria and Peter drive in silence.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Craig washes the dishes. Lotte dries them. They dont

look at each other.

INT. LESTERCORP FILE ROOM - MORNING

Craig in a cream colored suit, pours over the file cabinets.

Floris watches from the doorway.

Craig turns.

Floris shrugs, shakes her head.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

Craig pours himself a cup of coffee. Maxine approaches

with an empty cup.

Craig fills her cup.

Maxine walks away.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

Craig is at his workbench, painting the finishing touches

on a new puppet. It is beautiful. It is Maxine. Lotte

watches quietly from  the door. A Lotte puppet hangs

from a hook, tangled and dusty.

Craig is surprised, caught.

Craig hangs the puppet, stands, and switches off the light.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The room is dark. Lotte snores lightly. Craig lies there

with his eyes open. Quietly, he gets up and leaves the

bedroom. Lotte watches him go.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Craig stands above the puppet stage. He is working both the

Craig puppet and the Maxine puppet at the same time. The

two perform a beautiful and graceful pas de deux. They

finish in a passionate embrace.

INT. FILE ROOM - MORNING

Craig files. Floris watches him from the doorway. Dr.

Lester watches Floris from behind a cabinet.

Floris laughs long and hard. Too long and too hard.

Floris runs from the room. Lester pokes his head out from

behind the cabinet.

Lester exits.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

Craig squats next to a payphone.

Maxine walks by. Craig grabs her arm, signals for her

to wait a minute. She waits.

Craig hangs up.

Craig walks down the hall. A tiny smile flits across

Maxine's face.

INT. JUICY JUICE BAR - EVENING

Lester and Craig sit at a table. There are several emptied

glasses of carrot juice in front of Lester. Craig nurses

one glass, and keeps checking his watch.

Craig hurries to the door. Lester downs Craig's juice,

signals the waiter for more.

INT. THE STUCK PIG - NIGHT

Maxine sits at the bar, watching her watch. Craig rushes

into the room, frantic, out of breath. He spots Maxine and

plops himself next to her.

Maxine laughs. The bartender approaches.

The bartender walks away.

The drinks arrive. Maxine's is in an enormous fishbowl of

a glass. It's bright blue, with fruit and marshmallows

swimming in it. Paper umbrellas stick out of it, an

plastic monkeys hang from the rim.

Maxine downs it like a shot of whiskey. She pushes the

empty glass to the bartender.

The bartender walks away with the empty glass.

Maxine gets up.

Maxine's second drink comes. She downs it, pushes the

glass toward the bartender.

The bartender comes back with Maxine's drink.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lotte is combing Elijah. Craig enters.

There is a silence. Lotte continues to comb out Elijah.

Finally:

Lotte exits.

INT. GARAGE - NIGHT

Craig works the Craig and Maxine puppets. The puppets

sit on the edge of the small stage and chat. Craig does a

pretty fair impersonation of Maxine's voice.

The puppets kiss.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

Craig waits at the coffee machine. Checks his watch.

Finally Maxine approaches.

Craig grabs Maxine's hand and drags her into an empty

office.

INT. EMPTY OFFICE - DAY

Craig pulls Maxine in closes the door.

Maxine heads for the door. Craig sits on a box. He puts

his head in his hands and sighs. Across the room he

notices a very small door with a two by four nailed across

it.

Craig pries the two-by-four off and opens the door. It's a

dark and wet membranous tunnel inside.

Craig lets go of the door and it slams shut.

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE - DAY

Lester sits at his desk studying an instruction manual for a

juicer. The spanking new juicer sits on his desk. There is an

urgent knocking at the door.

Craig rushes in.

Craig exits. Lester waits a moment. then dials the phone.

INT. ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY

Craig sits in the otherwise empty screening room. The

lights dim, the film begins.

TITLE:	THE LITTLE DOOR IN THE VACANT OFFICE

INT. VACANT OFFICE - DAY

Wendy crouches in the vacant office and studies the closed

little door. Don enters. smiling.

INT. WATCHMAKER'S WORKSHOP - DAY

An old man toils away in the dusty office.

INT. VACANT OFFICE - DAY

They laugh.

TITLE:	THE END

INT. ORIENTATION ROOM - DAY

The lights go up. Craig sits there for a moment. An usher

pushes a broom down the aisle.

Craig exits. The usher mumbles something into a

walkie-talkie.

INT. VACANT ROOM - DAY

Craig opens the little door and climbs into the

membranous hallway. The door slams shut behind him.

INT. HALLWAY - MORNING

It's dark and wet. The walls are soft and membranous.

There is a dripping sound. Craig crawls along. Soon

something starts to pull Craig as if he is being sucked

through a straw. There is a flash of light.

INT. FANCY DINING ROOM - MORNING

The POV of someone reading a newspaper. The person lifts

a cup of coffee to his mouth. There is a slurping sound.

The person puts down the coffee cup and the newspaper, and

stands up.

We're still in POV. The person walks across the room, picks

up his wallet from a coffee table. looks in a mirror and

checks his teeth for food. It's John Malkovich.

Malkovich walks to the front door, opens it, exits his

apartment.

INT. MAXINE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Maxine sits at her desk, eats a sandwich. looks at a

fashion magazine, and chats on the phone.

INT. TAXI - CONTINUOUS

John Malkovich's POV from the back seat of the cab. The

cab pulls away from the curb.

The cabbie studies Malkovich in his rearview mirror as he

drives.

The cabbie hands a pad back over the seat. Malkovich

reaches for it. There is a slurping sound.

The image starts to fade, then suddenly goes black.

EXT. DITCH - DAY

Its on the side of Jersey Turnpike. There is a pop and

Craig falls from nowhere into the ditch. He is soaking wet,

and now dirty from the ditch. He stands, looks confusedly

around, sees a N.J. Turnpike sign. After a moment, he goes

to the side of the road and sticks out his thumb.

INT. MAXINE'S OFFICE - LATER

Maxine sits behind her desk with her feet up, and talks on

the phone.

Craig walks in disheveled and exhausted. Maxine sees him,

keeps talking.

Maxine stands, puts some stuff in her purse.

Maxine heads for the door. Craig grabs her arm.

Craig sits Maxine down in a chair, lets go of her arm.

Maxine reaches over and squeezes his lips affectionately

between her thumb and forefinger.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Craig and Lotte are getting into evening clothes.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Craig holds open the small door as Lotte climbs in.

The door slams shut.

Craig hurries out the door.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Malkovich is in the shower. We watch from his POV as

he soaps himself. He does this in a sensual manner.

Malkovich steps out of the shower, slowly towels himself

dry.

EXT. DITCH - NIGHT

Lotte lands in the ditch. She is wet and ragged. Traffic

whizzes by. Craig turns on the headlights in his parked

car. They shine on Lotte. Craig steps out of the car.

Craig helps Lotte up and toward the car.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S CAR - NIGHT

Craig drives. Lotte looks distractedly out the window.

INT. LESTER'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

It's a posh place with flocked wallpaper and candelabras.

Lester, Craig, and Lotte sit around an elegantly appointed

table with all different sorts of juices in front of them.

Lotte is still wet. Lester sits quite close to her.

Lotte smiles, and heads down the hall.

INT. LESTER'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

Lotte walks down the ritzy hallway. She is counting closed

doors in search of the bathroom. She opens a door, looks

inside, gasps, then enters the room.

INT. LESTER' S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lotte enters the room. It is dark. At the far end there

is what amounts to a candle-lit shrine to John Malkovich.

The centerpiece of the shrine is an enormous photograph

of Malkovich bordered by a garland of flowers. Lotte stares

at it for a moment, then drops to her knees in front of it.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE' S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Lotte has just taken a shower. She towels herself dry in

much the same way as Malkovich. Her eyes are closed. She

opens them slowly and sees herself in the mirror.

Disappointedly, she drops the towel and heads out of the

bathroom.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

Craig sits at his work table. He is pulling the heads off

of the Craig and the Maxine puppets. He puts the Maxine

head on the Craig puppet. He sighs.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - MORNING

Maxine sits at her desk composing an ad. Craig stands

behind her, ostensibly looking over her shoulder, but

actually studying the back of her head. He sighs.

Maxine dials the phone. Lotte enters.

Lotte and Maxine shake hands.

Lotte enters. Craig closes the door. stands there.

Maxine tosses Craig his car keys. He heads out the door.

Maxine dials the phone.

INT. JOHN MALKOVICH'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Malkovich's POV. He sits on the couch. drinks coffee,

and reads a copy of Awake and Sing. Bach plays on the

stereo in the background.

The phone rings. Malkovich puts down the script, and picks

up the phone.

Malkovich hangs up the phone.

Malkovich goes back to his script.

Malkovich picks up a pen and writes: Bernardo's 8:00.

EXT. DITCH - MORNING

Craig waits. Lotte pops into the ditch. She's wet and slimy.

INT. BERNARDO'S - NIGHT

Malkovich's POV. It's a busy Italian restaurant. Malkovich

looks around, checks his watch: 8:03. A guy walks up to him.

The guy walks away. Malkovich scans the room. Maxine enters

the restaurant. We see her, but Malkovich doesn't single her

out of the crowd. She looks around.

Maxine spots Malkovich. and heads over. He focuses on her.

Maxine holds out her hand. She is charming. Malkovich takes

her hand.

Craig drives. Lotte is soaking wet. She stares out the

window.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Craig, Lotte, and Maxine are seated at the table and eating

lasagna. Lotte eyes Maxine. Craig eyes Maxine. There is an

awkward silence.

There is another silence.

Maxine laughs. There is another silence. Suddenly, at the

same moment, both Craig and Lotte lunge for Maxine and

start kissing her passionately about the face and neck.

They stop just as suddenly and look at each other.

Lotte looks away.

Lotte strokes Maxine's face. Craig clears dishes from the

table.

Maxine exits. Craig and Lotte look at each other.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - MORNING

It is deadly silent. Craig and Maxine sit at their desks.

The wall clock ticks. Craig whistles tunelessly, every

once in a while looking up and discreetly checking out

Maxine. Eventually there is a knock at the door.

Erroll, a sad, fat young man enters meekly.

Erroll sits in a chair in front of Craig's desk. He

glances nervously over at Maxine.

Erroll takes out his wallet.

EXT. DITCH - DAY

Craig waits by his car, checks his watch. "Pop!"  Erroll

plops into the ditch, wet and unkempt. He looks around,

sees Craig, charges him with a yell and gives him an

enormous bear hug.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - DAY

The hall outside Craig and Maxine's office sports a long

line of crouching fat people, all clutching cash in their

hands.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Craig kneels at the door and peeks out through the mail

slot. Maxine sits at her desk and files her toenails.

Craig unlocks the door. Lester steps in, closes the door

behind him, locks it.

Lester exits. Craig looks at Maxine. There is a moment

of tension. Finally:

Craig opens the door. The first few fat people move noisily

into the room.

INT. DR. LESTER'S ALTAT ROOM - NIGHT

Many cloaked people in the room kneeling with candles in

hand before the lit photo of Malkovich. Lotte kneels in the

back row. They chant:

INT. LESTER'S DINING ROOM - A BIT LATER

The worshippers mill about, chatting, drinking coffee,

nibbling on cookies.

A stunned hush falls over the group.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Craig is putting stuff in boxes. Lotte enters in her cloak.

Craig looks up from his packing. He and Lotte stare at each

other for a long while.

They hug.

They look at each other and laugh, them fall back into the

embrace. They both get faraway looks in their eyes.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

The clock reads 3:00 AM. Craig, in his pajamas, is working

the Craig and Maxine puppets. They make love on the bare

puppet stage. Craig seems possessed.

INT. MAXINE'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The phone rings. Maxine sleepily picks it up.

Maxine checks her alarm clock. The time is 3:11 AM.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S CAR - NIGHT

Lotte drives.

INT. MAXINE'S APARTMENT - A BIT LATER

The doorbell rings. Maxine, in a sheer black nightgown,

answers it. John Malkovich stands there.

Maxine gestures for him to enter. As Malkovich passes by

her, she checks the wall clock. The time is 3:50.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Lotte sits on the floor in the dark. She leans, out of

breath, against the wall next to the portal and checks her

watch. The time is 4:10. She pulls open the door.

INT. MAXINE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Maxine and Malkovich sit a bit awkwardly next to each other

on the couch.

The digital clock on the VCR clicks over to 4:11 AM.

Maxine's look softens, and she kisses Malkovich hard

on the lips. He seems surprised, but quickly warms to

it. We shift top Malkovich's POV as Maxine begins to

unbutton Malkovich's shirt.

They get back to it.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A sweaty and spent Craig sneaks back into the bedroom.

He sees that the bed is empty.

EXT. DITCH - NIGHT

With a gasp and a wail of release, Lotte pops into the

ditch. She is soaking wet and breathes heavily. She

just lies there.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Craig is hunched over a cup of coffee. The front door

can be heard to open. After a moment Lotte appears in

the kitchen doorway. She is caked with dirt. Craig

looks up at her.

Craig looks down at his coffee.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - MORNING

Craig enters with red-rimmed eyes. Maxine sits at her

desk, actually looking kind of radiant.

Craig turns and walks out the door.

INT. HALLWAY 7 1/2 FLOOR - CONTINUOUS

Craig hurries past a long line of fat people, all looking

eager, all clutching cash.

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE - MORNING

Lester sits at his desk. The intercom buzzes.

INT. GUN SHOP - MORNING

Craig is at the counter buying a pistol.

INT. JUICY-JUICE JUICE BAR - MORNING

Lester and Lotte sit at a table. They both have really

large glasses of carrot juice in front of them.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

Craig stands still and tense, with gun in hand. We hear

the front door unlock. Lotte enters. She does not see

Craig. He grabs her from behind as she passes. Lotte

screams. Craig holds the gun to her head.

Lotte is stunned. She feels the muzzle against her forehead.

She shuts up. Keeping the gun trained on Lotte, Craig

dials the phone. He hands the receiver to her. He holds his

ear to the receiver also.

Craig cocks the pistol.

Maxine hangs up. Lotte hands the phone to Craig, who hangs

it up. Craig opens up the big cage where Elijah is housed,

and motions with the gun for Lotte to enter.

Craig slaps Lotte hard. She looks at him, almost sadly.

Craig tapes Lotte's mouth, ties her hands and feet. Elijah

watches him tie her. He becomes somewhat agitated, and

holds his stomach.

INT. BROADHURST THEATER - DAY

Malkovich is rehearsing some business on stage. Maxine

watches from the house. She anxiously checks her watch,

then points to it so Malkovich can see.

INT. MALKOVICH'S DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Malkovich and Maxine are having sex on the make-up table,

against the mirror.

We now watch the scene from Malkovich's POV.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - DAY

Craig is toweling himself off, hurriedly combing his

hair. Maxine enters.

Maxine sits. Craig smiles to himself.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Craig is feeding the various caged animals. He puts two

plates of food in Elijah's cage. Lotte is ungagged and

unbound now. She eats as Craig slumps down next to the

cage, gun in hand.

Craig picks up the phone and dials. He smiles as he

holds the receiver up to Lotte's face.

INT. MAXINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Malkovich and Maxine are having sex on Maxine's couch.

Malkovich clumsily, awkwardly moves his hand across Maxine's

breast.

Maxine kisses Malkovich hard on the lips. There is a

sucking sound.

EXT. DITCH - NIGHT

There is a pop and Craig lands in the ditch.

INT. MAXINE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A panicked Malkovich is pulling on his clothes.

He leaves. Maxine falls back on the couch and sighs

contentedly.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

A wet, mess Craig sits next to Lotte's cage. Lotte is bound

and gagged.

INT. MALKOVICH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Malkovich paces nervously, a glass of whisky in his hand.

Kevin Bacon sits on the couch and fiddles with a Rubic's

Cube.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING

Malkovich, in a baseball cap and sunglasses, leans against

the wall. After a moment, Maxine emerges from the building

and walks down the block. Malkovich follows at a safe

distance.

INT. 7 1/2 FLOOR - MORNING

The elevator doors are pried open. It's packed. Maxine and

a few other people climb out. The last to emerge is

Malkovich. He is astounded by the dimensions of the floor.

He turns the corner and sees the long line of crouching fat

people. Maxine goes into the office and closes the door.

Maxine sees "J.M. Inc." stenciled on the office door. He

turns to the first fat man and line.

Malkovich pounds on the door.

Several fat people jump on Malkovich, and start beating

him. Craig steps out of the office.

The fat people climb off Malkovich. His glasses and cap

have been knocked off and everyone recognizes him.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Craig and Malkovich enter. Maxine looks up, startled, but

controlling it.

Craig ushers Malkovich to the portal door, opens it.

Malkovich climbs in. The door closes.

INT. MEMBRANOUS TUNNEL - DAY

Malkovich crawls through. It's murky. He's tense. Suddenly

there is a slurping sound.

PSYCHEDELIC MONTAGE

We see Malkovich hurtling through different environments.

It's scary: giant toads, swirling eddies of garish, colored

lights, naked old people pointing and laughing, black velvet

clown paintings.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Malkovich pops into a chair in a swakn night club. He's

wearing a tuxedo. The woman across the table from him is

also Malkovich, but in a gown. He looks around the

restaurant. Everyone is Malkovich in different clothes.

Malkovich is panicked. The girl Malkovich across the

table looks at him seductively, winks and talks.

Malkovich looks confused. The Malkovich waiter approaches,

pen and pad in hand, ready to take their orders.

Malkovich looks down at the menu. Every item is "Malkovich."

He screams:

The waiter jots it down on his pad.

Malkovich pushes himself away from the table and runs for

the exit. He passes the stage where a girl singer Malkovich

is singin sensuously into the microphone. She is backed by a

'40's style big band of Malkoviches.

Malkovich flies through the back door.

EXT. DITCH - DAY

Malkovich lands with a thud in the ditch. Craig is waiting

there with his van. On its side is painted "See The World

in Malk-O-Vision" followed by a phone number. Malkovich is

huddled and shivering and soaking wet.

Malkovich trudges off along the shoulder of the turnpike.

Cars whiz by Malkovich. Someone yells from a passing car.

Malkovich looks up. A beer can comes flying out of the car

and hits him on the head.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Craig is feeding the animals. His gun is stuck in his pants.

He gets to Lotte's cage. She is bound but ungagged. She

looks haggard.

She dials her phone, opens her cage, puts phone to her ear.

Craig hangs up, tapes Lotte's mouth.

Craig exits. Lotte fiddles with the ropes on her hands

Elijah, slumped in the corner of the cage, blankly

watches her moving hands. Suddenly his eyes narrow.

Something is going on in his brain. We move slowly into

his eyes.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

It is a memory: blurry and overexposed, the color washed

out. We see a weathered wooden sign which reads "Africa."

The sound of running feet, huffing frantic breathing. We

watch from up in a tree (Elijah's POV) as two men in safari

suits chase a couple of chimps across the jungle floor. The

chimps are screaming as the safari men tackle them and tie

them up. The safari men laugh.

The safari men leave the chimps on the ground. We descend

from the trees to the ground next to the bound chimps. One

of the chimps looks at the camera. He grunts and squeals.

A small pair of chimp hands enter into the frame and

struggle to untie the ropes, but to no avail. Chimp two

speaks.

Elijah is wrestled to the ground amidst much screaming.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Elijah shakes off the memory and looks determinedly at the

ropes on Lotte's hands. He attempts to untie the knot. He

works furiously and succeeds. Lotte pulls the tape from her

mouth.

Elijah beams and screams for ecstatic joy. Lotte unlocks

the cage, and dials the phone.

Maxine hangs up. Lotte, visibly shaken, dials the phone.

INT. MALKOVICH'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The doorbell rings. Malkovich answers it. Maxine stands

there, dressed in an evening gown.

Malkovich tenses up, then shakes his head in an awkward,

puppet-like manner. When Malkovich speaks, it seems to be

against him will.

Malkovich begins undressing, and does a lewd bump and grind

while looking mortified. Maxine giggles. Malkovich (Craig)

laughs wildly.

INT. LESTER'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Lester's hand is in a bloody bandage. The juicer sits on hi

desk. Lotte sits across from him looking nervous and

hollow-eyed.

INT. SCREENING ROOM - NIGHT

Lotte site next to Lester in the darkened auditorium.

The projector whirs. The screen lights up.

TITLE: SO YOU WANT TO BE JOHN MALKOVICH

A much younger Lester addresses the camera in this black

and white film, which seems to have been made in the 50's.

We see a shot of a newborn.

We see a photo of another infant, this one with a ribbon in

her hair.

Lester points to his ear and shrugs.

INT. MALKOVICH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Malkovich and Maxine lie naked on the bed, looking quite

relaxed.

Malkovich leans over and kisses her, then gets up.

Malkovich performs the same dance that the Craig pupper

did at the beginning of the film. It is exactly the same,

complete with impossible somersaults and perspiring brow.

He finishes by falling to his knees and weeping.

Malkovich kisses Maxine. She snuggles close to him.

INT. LESTER'S SHRINE ROOM - NIGHT

The worshippers are assembled. Lotte stands before them.

Everyone cheers.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Maxine and Malkovich are furiously filling the portal

with cement. Suddenly Malkovich stops and runs to the

office door screaming a bloodcurdling scream. He stops

just as suddenly, begins to strangle himself.

They go back to filling the portal. There is the sound

of many shuffling feet in the hallway. The door flies

open and the Malkovichians led by Lester and Lotte burst

in. Malkovich and Maxine turn with a start.

Lotte lunges for Malkovich. Lester grabs her arm, holds

her back.

Craig laughs somewhat maniacally. Maxine slips her arm

through Craig's, joins him in his laughter, and glances

triumphantly over at Lotte.

The Malkovichians grumble and let Malkovich and Maxine

exit.

The Malkovichians converge on the sealed portal, and

begin clawing desperately at the quick-drying cement.

Fingers are scraped raw, and we see smears of blood and

skin on the rough gray surface.

INT. AGENT'S OFFICE - DAY

A slick-looking agent answers a buzzing phone.

Malkovich and Maxine enter. The agent stands, holds out

his hand.

The agent shakes Maxine's hand.

Malkovich and Maxine sit.

Maxine and Malkovich shake their heads "no."

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - DAY

The cult members are still there, now with picks

shovels. They are worn out and sweaty. The portal is

excavated, but it seems ragged and destroyed. Man #2

emerges from the hole, a rope tied around his waist.

Lester peers through the door.

Lester crawls into the tunnel, the door slams behind

him.

INT. PORTAL - CONTINUOUS

Lester crawls through. There is a slurping sound and a

flash of light.

INT. BUNKER - DAY

The scene is in black and white. Bombs are dropping.

There is a blonde in forties clothes there. Lester

views the scene through somebody's POV.

The person walks past a mirror. It's Hitler.

We look over to see a director and camera crew.

There is a popping sound.

EXT. DITCH - DAY

Lester pops into the ditch. One of his cult members is

waiting with a car, and looking hopeful. Lester sadly

shakes his head "no."

INT. LESTER'S SHRINE ROOM - DAY

The cult members mill about, drinking coffee, chatting.

Lester enters with the cult member who picked him up at

the ditch. All quiet down and look over at him.

The members fall into a stunned silence. Lester takes

some refrigerator magnets and spells out L-E-S-T-E-R on

a board. He then rearranges them for a while.

Lester continues to rearrange the letters, getting a little

tense now.

Several members check their watches.

L-E-S-T-E-R has been left as E-L R-E-S-T as Lester turns

from the board to face the congregation.

There is a lot of murmuring in the room now.

The cultists get tense, start to leave en masse.

People stop in their tracks.

The cultists think about is, then shrug and stay put.

Lotte stands.

Lotte heads for the door.

Lotte stops and turns.

She exits.

INT. LESTER'S SHRINE ROOM - A BIT LATER

Mr. Flemmer, a silver-haired gentleman in turtleneck and

blazer, scratches his head. The cultists patiently watch

him.

The cult members ad-lib "same here, sir."

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Lotte site in the living room, in her pajamas, softly

sobbing. The caged animals watch her.

Lotte opens the windows and the front door, then unlocks

all the cages. The animals scurry and fly out of their

cages, and out of the house. Lotte watches silently until

she is alone.

A hand reaches for hers. She looks down. Elijah is still

there and holding her hand. She smiles.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

We see the menagerie of animals on the otherwise deserted

street, dispersing into the night. A lone dark figure turns

the corner, and walks slowly up the street to Craig and

Lotte's building.

INT. CRAIG AND LOTTE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Lotte and Elijah see the dark figure coming up the steps.

The buzzer rings. Lotte and Elijah jump.

Elijah looks at her sweetly, a great sadness in his eyes.

Then he leads her by the hand out the window.

EXT. VEGAS HOTEL - NIGHT

The marquee reads:  World's Greatest Puppeteer Craig

Schwartz and his Magical Puppet John Malkovich.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

Malkovich sits in a tuxedo and watches himself in the

dressing table mirror. Maxine, in a tight black number,

reclines on the couch.

Malkovich jerks a bit, gets it under control.

INT. LAS VEGAS THEATER - NIGHT

The house is filling with formally dressed audience members.

The cultists and Lester, also in tuxes and gowns, are among

them. The lights go down.

The orchestra starts up. The curtains part.

Malkovich tap dances out onto the stage. He is amazingly

nimble and the audience "oohs" and "aahs."

Malkovich does an amazing triple somersault, lands on one

knee and, with spread arms, begins singing: "Kiss Today

Goodbye."  in a beautiful tenor. The orchestra catches up

with him. The audience goes wild. A pretty-boy young man

with a big tousle of black hair and a shiny, tight suit

appears at the back of the house. An usher glances over at

him.

The usher looks nervously around for someone to boot.

Martini waits in the back. On stage, Malkovich is now

performing the "back of the car scene" from "On The

Waterfront."  He alternates between the Marlon Brando part

and the Rod Steiger part, moving back and forth from one

stool to the another. He performs it magnificently. We see

Lester in the audience wiping a small tear from his eye.

Mantini is now sitting in a good aisle seat next to a

beautiful woman. Her boyfriend is being hauled toward the

exit by the usher. The beautiful woman watches, with some

concern, as the boyfriend is taken away. Then she turns and

smiles flirtatiously at Mantini. Mantini smiles back. On

stage Malkovich is dressed in a ringmaster's outfit and

juggling chainsaws.

At this point the entire audience stands and gives Malkovich

a spontaneous standing ovation. All except Mantini. Even the

cultists get up.

INT. SEWER - NIGHT

Lotte sits sadly in the wet tunnel. She is scrunched-up

against the damp cold. A small fire smolders in front of

her. We hear footsteps approaching. It is Elijah, carrying

supplies:  food and blankets. He covers her with a blanket

and sits down next to her.

Elijah sighs, then holds his stomach. The ulcer is

returning.

INT. FLEMMER'S APARTMENT - DAY

It's a conservatively furnished upper westside apartment.

Looks like it belongs to a Columbia professor. The walls

are lined with books. Mr. Flemmer sits at his desk, his

head in his hands, deep in thought. The doorbell rings.

The door opens and Lester pokes his head in.

Lester enters with a greasy white paper bag.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Malkovich sits on the floor in silk pajamas. He is

surrounded by newspaper clippings. He is drinking

champagne from the bottle. Maxine is at a dressing

table, brushing her hair.

But Malkovich is already passed out on the floor on top of

his clippings. Maxine smiles maternally, gets up and puts

blanket over him. We stay on Malkovich's face.

INT. HELL - NIGHT

Craig wanders across a jagged, rocky landscape. Geysers of

flame shoot up around him. The sky is red. He is frightened.

He arrives at a desk. The man behind the desk is facing away

from him. He swivels to face Craig. It is Flemmer, looking

the same as usual except for little red horns and a sinister

grin.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - CONTINUOUS

Malkovich awakes with a start. Maxine looks over at him.

Flemmer crouches behind a bureau and listens. He is pleased

with himself.

There is a knock at the door. Maxine opens it, angry.

Mantini enters. Maxine is suddenly interested. Mantini and

Maxine give each other the once over.

INT. FLEMMER'S APARTMENT - DAY

Lester is watering Flemmer's plants. A key is heard in the

door. Flemmer enters, a small carry-on bag slung over his

shoulder.

Lester shrugs.

INT. SEWER - NIGHT

Lotte and Elijah, now dirty and drawn, are talking. Elijah

uses sign language.

Lotte turns away, shaken. A tear rolls down her face.

EXT. BROADHURST THEATER - NIGHT

The Marquee reads: Derek Mantini's sixty-foot Harry S.

Truman puppet and Craig Schwartz's actual-size John

Malkovich puppet in Peter Shaffer's "Equus."

INT. BROADHURST THEATER - NIGHT

The house is packed. On stage is a minimalist set: wood

planks and metal poles. Six guys in brown turtlenecks and

stylized wire horse heads mill about. The 60 foot Harry S.

Truman puppet is pacing, his strings extending up into the

flyspace and out of sight. Malkovich sits on a bench. Truman

and Malkovich both take stabs at British accents.

We see the audience fidgeting in their seats, coughing.

INT. BROADHURST BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

The dialogue drones on as Maxine watches coolly from the

wings. She drags on a cigarette. Mr. Flemmer, dressed as

a stagehand, stands behind Maxine. He also watches the

actors, with an occasional sideways glance at Maxine.

INT. THE BROADHURST LOBBY - A BIT LATER

It's intermission. The lobby is crowded. Maxine moves

through the crowd listening to snippets of conversation.

Flemmer, now in a tuxedo, moves about also. First couple:

Second couple:

Third couple:

INT. DRESSING ROOM - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Malkovich watches himself in his dressing table mirror.

Maxine enters, flops herself down on the couch and lights

up a cigarette.

Malkovich continues to watch himself in the mirror, nods his

head.

INT. CATWALK ABOVE STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Mantini leans against a rail and smokes a cigarette. Charles

Nelson Reilly, in a tuxedo, confers with him in hushed tones.

Flemmer materializes behind Mantini

Mantini spins around to face Flemmer. Reilly makes a break

for it. Flemmer points a finger and Reilly freezes in

mid-strut. Flemmer then points a finger at Mantini, and he,

too, freezes. Flemmer picks up the giant wooden controls

for the marionette, and pulls a copy of the play from his

pocket.

INT. BROADHURST STAGE - NIGHT

We watch the second act in progress. The Truman puppet pace

as he delivers a monologue. Somehow he doesn't even seem to

be a puppet anymore, so subtle and graceful are his

movements and the changes in his facial expressions. It's

as if there's a giant actual Harry Truman on stage.

Malkovich watches impressed and a little scared by this

bravura performance. He glances out into the audience and

sees a silent, rapt crowd.

INT. BROADHURST STAGE - A BIT LATER

Malkovich is delivering a monologue. Acting up a storm.

During Malkovich's speech, Truman repeatedly attempts to

upstage him, nodding his head, looking thoughtful, raising

his ten foot eyebrows in surprise...

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - CONTINUOUS

A man hole cover is pushed off. Lotte climbs out onto the

street. She is dirty but determined.

INT. BROADHURST STAGE - LATER STILL

Malkovich is in convulsions on the floor. Big dramatic

convulsions. Truman scoops him up, and places him on the

bench. Malkovich continues with the convulsions, milking

it. Truman speaks.

Malkovich is breathing insanely now, trying to keep the

focus on himself. Flemmer is in the catwalks, watching the

crowd. The audience is watching Malkovich.

Malkovich and Truman on the stage. Truman is pacing,

swirling, dancing, juggling enormous bowling pins as he

talks.

Malkovich has upPed his convulsions now. He watches Truman

out of the corner of his eye while writhing tormentedly on

the bench. He levitates. Spins in mid-air. Falls on all

fours and does an uncanny impression of a yelping dog.

Truman watches Malkovich, continues to speak. But now, when

he talks, fire comes out of his mouth.

The audience "ooohs" at the flames. Malkovich rips off his

clothes and convulses into the dying swan-bit from "Swan

Lake." The audience applauds. Truman continues his speech,

now transforming himself into an actual 60 foot swan and

flying around the auditorium as he speaks.

The audience watches the giant swan overhead, necks craned,

in awe. Malkovich sighs. He is out of his league. He goes

into a remarkable tap dance routine and sings "Mr.

Bojangles", but nobody even looks at the stage. The giant

swan bursts into flames, flies back onto the stage, burns

to a crisp, then rises from his ashes as the actual Harry S.

Truman. Truman looks confused and disoriented, as if just

raised from the dead.

Truman grows and grows until he is again just a giant

puppet. The audience bursts into applause, then delivers a

standing ovation. Truman bows. Flemmer laughs wildly in the

catwalks. Malkovich walks dejectedly from the stage.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Malkovich walks past Maxine. She doesn't even look at him.

Thunderous applause is heard in the background.

Malkovich drops limply to the floor. He lifts his head.

INT. CATWALK - CONTINUOUS

Flemmer watches Malkovich from above. He pulls out a

walkie-talkie.

INT. CRAIG AND MAXINE'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Lester is surrounded by all the Malkovichians. He holds

the walkie-talkie, has just received word. He nods, and

the Malkovichians crawl in single file into the portal,

while shrieking a war cry.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Maxine watches as Malkovich pulls himself up off the ground.

Suddenly, he is again possessed, first by one person, then

by two, then by three, his body jerking and pulsating with

each new occupant. It's almost like popping corn, starting

out slowly, then going faster and faster, until Malkovich

is possessed by all fifty Malkovichians. He shrieks a war

cry and runs out onto the stage.

INT. STAGE - CONTINUOUS

The Truman puppet now hangs limply from the catwalks.

Malkovich hovers just above the stage and addresses the

audience.

The audience scoffs at first, but then are compelled to

their knees.

Malkovich laughs, gives the thumbs up sign to Flemmer in

the catwalks. Flemmer gives the thumbs up sign back.

Lotte appears in the back of the theater, an out-of-breath

figure in shadows. It is too late. She runs from the

theater.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Maxine watches, somewhat amused. She turns and heads for

the exit.

EXT. NEW JERSEY TUNPIKE - NIGHT

A dejected Craig walks along the shoulder. He is wet and

cold. We hold on him for a long while until he eventually

merges with the landscape.

FADE OUT

FADE IN

EXT. MANHATTAN STREET - DAY

CHYRON:  LATER THAT WEEK

Something is wrong. It's a typical midtown street, but

everything is painted gray:  the buildings, the streets,

the sidewalks, the cars. People walk along the streets,

carrying gray briefcases, wearing gray jumpsuits. Nobody

talks, nobody smiles. Gray birds fly silently in the sky.

There is no noise whatsoever. There are several movie

theaters on the block. All marquees advertise John Malkovich

movies. Around the corner comes Malkovich. He is floating

about ten feet off the ground on an enormous, bright red,

jeweled throne. He wears a gold crown and purple silk robe

and smiles condescendingly, majestically. Floris sits on his

lap. She is dressed in an orange satin gown. Nobody on the

street looks up.

Floris shrugs, picks at her finger nails.

Without pause the entire street of gray clad people breaks

into a meticulously choreographed production number. Totally

silent, totally joyless, but exquisitely executed. We see

that Maxine is one of the anonymous dancers. Her face is

void of expression. Malkovich laughs.

The crowd dances faster and faster. Older people fall over,

exhausted, clutching their hearts. Nobody stops dancing to

help, nobody dares.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

Bird's eye view of the park. It's all painted gray. Every

tree, every leaf. There's no sign of life. The camera moves

in, through some gray trees and gray brush to:

A LUSH GREEN OASIS CAMOUFLAGED ON THE TOP AND SIDES WITH GRAY PAINT

This place is filled with life:  Colorful birds, lizards,

cats, a rooster. All the animals are active, happy, but

totally silent, as if they know the precariousness of their

position. Lotte and Elijah sit among them. These are the

animals that she freed earlier. Lotte and Elijah hold hands

and look into each other's eyes. We see that they both wear

gold bands. They are husband and wife. Elijah signs.

Lotte slips into a gray jumpsuit. She stuffs a homemade bomb

on her pocket. She and Elijah kiss passionately, then

embrace.

Lotte turns quickly. This is too much to bear. She descends

into a storm drain. The animals stop what they're doing.

EXT. MERTIN-FLEMMER BUILDING - DAY

A man-hole cover lifts. Lotte pokes her head out. The coast

is clear. She emerges. Assumes the dead-eyed expression of

the others, and enters the building.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Lotte watches the floors change. After seven, she presses

the emergency stop button. The elevator jerks to a halt.

She picks up the crow bar in the corner, pries open the

door. The 7 1/2 floor is gone. Nothing is there but pipes

and wires and beams. She climbs out onto the floor.

INT. BETWEEN FLOORS - CONTINUOUS

Lotte searched the floor for some sign of the portal. It

is nowhere to be found. There is a noise behind her. She

turns with a start. It's Craig, ragged and ill-shaven.

Craig's eyes well up with tears. Lotte looks at him sweetly.

She puts her arm around him and leads him toward the

elevator.

We come on very close to Craig's arm as he lifts it to put

it around Lotte. We see a thin almost invisible filament.

We follow it up, and discover that Craig is now a

marionette being controlled from above by an emotionless

Mantini in a gray jumpsuit.

Now we see filaments attached to Mantini's arms, and w

follow them up to find that Flemmer is controlling Mantini.

Flemmer throws his head back and laughs. The camera moves

into his mouth and down his throat, which, oddly enough,

looks exactly like the membranous John Malkovich portal

tunnel.

MUSIC IN: "Put Your Hand Inside The Puppet Head" by They

Might Be Giants. It plays throughout the credits.

FADE OUT

THE END

