The little Girl starts to go back for a precious toy she

has dropped. Hector picks her up and carries her off

over his shoulder. The Boy follows.

Deirdre is trailing behind them. She was right. She

doesn't have the stamina for the hill. Hector looks back

and sees the Raiders gaining on her. His face is a con-

fusion of fear and indecision. He almost stops, as if to

go back and help her, but then changes his mind and runs

off once again with the children. Deirdre is by now

throwing the things she is carrying at her pursuers,

hoping that they will stop to retrieve them and allow her

to gain some ground. But they don't stop and the effort

tires her even more.

She attempts one final dash and then, all of her energy

gone, she stops in her tracks and waits for her pursuers.

the Raiders break their run also and trot and finally

walk, the distance between them and Deirdre.

Hector is watching all of this over his shoulder, still

running. He stops for a moment to watch Deirdre being

finally surrounded by the Raiders. Then he runs on.

Hector is tiring, too. With the Girl still awkwardly

clinging to his neck he is picking his way up a steep

slope, half-dragging the Boy up behind him. He stops

for a breath and sees the raiders moving into the

valley below. In a moment of utter panic he lets go of

his son, drops the Girl from his shoulder, and runs on

alone. We can sense the moment of release in his

unburdened flight. But it doesn't last long. Some way

up the slope he stops and turns. He sees his children,

only now beginning to work out what has happened, and

the raiders below. He can't do it. Even as the Girl

calls to him he is running back down the hill, feeling

the first stab of a guilt that will never leave him.

Hector and the children have reached the safety of a

small valley higher up in the hills. The raiders have

been slowed down by their capture of Deirdre. Hector

is hoisting his two children into the lower branches of

a solitary tree on the hillside. He coaxes them up into

the higher branches.

Hector moves off, looking back to his children in the

tree.  They too gaze anxiously at him. They don't wave.

Maybe waving hasn't been invented yet. Hector heads off

alone, higher into the hills.

It is dusk now. We find Hector waking from a fitful

sleep behind some rocks. He sits up and takes in his

surroundings. His face hardens as awareness of his pre-

dicament returns. He stands up and then crouching low,

moves off down the hill.

Hector has returned to the area of the tree. He slows

down some distance away and just in time. He sees a

figure standing beneath the tree. He moves forward to

the protection of some rocks, and watches. He is close

enough to hear the voice of the solitary Raider, although

he doesn't understand the words. The Raider looks up

into the branches and talks in a friendly, persuasive

way.

There is no response from the tree.    The Raider coaxes

again.

His friendly tone of voice has an effect. There is

movement in the branches. Hector can see the dark shapes

of his two children clambering down. The Raider

stretches out his arms and helps the Boy to the ground.

Then he reaches up for the Girl, catches her as she drops

and keeps her in his arms. He laughs in a comforting

way.

Hector watches the Raider and his children move slowly

off, down the hillside, the Raider carrying the Girl in

one arm and holding the Boy's hand. They almost look

like a family.

It is fully dark now. On the beach the Raiders have set

up a comfortable camp with a large fire. We are still

with Hector. He has come down from his bleak hiding

place in the hills. The smell of fire and food and con-

cern for his family, have drawn him here. He is hiding

somewhere way off from the camp, but close enough to

observe it.

What he sees disturbs him, but for odd reasons. His

family appear to be happily integrated with the Raiders.

His two children have become fast friends with the man

who coaxed them from the tree. His woman is with a

larger group closer to the fire. They are playfully

attempting to communicate with her, and although still a

little timid, she is smiling. There is no hint of bar-         *

barity, rape or abuse. That was not the intention of the

Raiders. To them, a fertile woman and two healthy

children are as gold will be to plunderers of later ages.

For their part, the family have to accept the situation.

Food and shelter are the best that life can offer.

Painfully, Hector takes in the reality of the scene. His

family have been stolen from him, plain and simple. In

the morning they will be gone, out to sea and round the

headland forever. He watches them for a while longer,

then it becomes too painful. He retreats into the dark-

ness and up into the empty hills again.

Hector spends a long, cold night alone, squatting in a

narrow crevice in the rocks. He doesn't sleep, or even

attempt to close his eyes. He stares into the darkness.

There is nothing in the world to comfort him, no phi-

losophy or religion, no friend to run to. This night he

is utterly alone.

In the morning it is lightly raining. Hector stands in

the drizzle outside the shelter. It seems to revive him,

refresh him, even comfort him. A sign, however meager,

that life goes on. Then Hector trots off in the direc-

tion of the shore. There is not much else that he can

do.

The Raiders are loading up their boats, wading back and

forth from the shoreline. Hector watches from cover.

His family are already on one of the boats, awaiting            *

whatever lies ahead, too afraid to betray real emotion.         *

The last of the Raiders on shore wade out the short dis-

tance to the boats. Hector watches these moments of

departure, watches the faces of his family.

Hector makes his move. In a mad act he breaks cover and         *

runs down toward the departing boats. The last Raiders

are climbing aboard. Hector charges at full speed to the

water's edge. He screams agonizingly at the Raiders and

impotently starts throwing stones at them. The Raiders

all look at him. The LEADER is impudently brushing

Hector's missiles aside, like so many flies and smiling.

Suddenly Hector's rage and energy leave him. He stands

looking at the Raiders and they look at him, for a long

moment. The Raiders are all young men, hardly into their

twenties, and nowadays might resemble something like a          *

motorcycle gang. But in Hector's time they are men in

the full prime of life. They begin to laugh and exchange

remarks about Hector. He returns their looks fiercely.

His woman and children sit on the boat, frozen in fear.         *

The Leader eventually turns from Hector, still smiling

and gives an order. The men lift their oars and prepare

to leave. Then an older man stands up in the other boat.

He calls over to the Leader, nodding in the direction of

Hector. Hector doesn't know what they are saying, but

they have an intense exchange, obviously centered on him.

The older man seems to be an adviser, a priest or wise

man, although he's still only about thirty years old.

The Leader listens to him intently. The PRIEST talks and

points to the cliffs. The Leader looks there and nods

his head. He gives some instructions to his men. Hector

stands, bemused. Six or so of the Raiders leave the

boats, wade ashore and without any resistance from him,

take hold of Hector. Hector's children instictively rise        *

as if to defend their father, but Deirdre, despite her          *

own feelings, wisely holds them back.                           *

Hector's hands have been bound with rope. He is being

led up to the top of the cliffs. The Priest and the

Leader walk on ahead, still talking intensely.

At the top of the cliff the bay and the boats and the

wide sea are stretched out beneath them. The Priest, as

they arrive, becomes excited. He points to a pile of

large stones at the very summit of the headland. The

mound of stones is obviously man-made.

The Leader moves closer to Hector and talks to him in a

friendly, reasoning tone.

Hector doesn't understand.    He looks at him blankly.

The Leader tries to help Hector understand by miming the

act of throwing him off the cliff. Hector doesn't know

how to respond.

The Leader is unsure. He walks around the pile of

stones, checking it out from all sides as if it was some

infernal machine that he didn't know the workings of. He

squats down and squints through it to the watery sun

emerging from the clouds far out to sea. He looks across

to Hector, now sitting on the grass. The Leader sits

down beside him. They sit together like friends. The

ageless intimacy of sacrificer and victim.

The Leader looks at Hector.    Then he makes up his mind.

With that, he stands up. The Priest, with some       sense of

ceremony, looks around for a large stone, picks      one up

and places it on top of the pile. He waits for       a moment,

almost as if he expects some consequence of his      action.

The Leader strides off back toward the beach. The others

follow him, giving a final look or smile to Hector, apart

from the Priest, who looks him up and down, regretting

that he is not by now a corpse in the ocean. Hector

watches them go, too shocked still to react in any mean-

ingful way. He stands alone, trying to unpick the rope

that binds his hands.

When they are some distance from him, Hector starts to

follow them, at first running to catch up and then simply

trotting after them. The Raiders are aware of him behind

them. The Leader eventually stops and calls to Hector.

He turns from Hector   and moves on. Hector persists in

following them. They    are his only connection now with

anything that thinks   or feels in the world. His link

with them is all that   is left. Again and again the

Leader stops to shoo   Hector away, but Hector dumbly tags

along behind.

The Raiders wade out to the waiting boats. Hector

follows to the very water's edge, then stands and bleakly

watches them. The Raiders prepare to move off. Hector

is an embarrassment to them now. At the last moment the

Leader gives a brusque order to one of his men. The man

clambers out of the boat and wades ashore again,

carrying a large flint-bladed knife. He comes out of the

water and walks up to Hector. Hector is beyond any form

of reaction. He will take whatever is offered to him.

The man comes close, the knife held ready. He stands in

front of Hector for a moment. On the boat, Hector's

family are tense with fear for his life.

Then the tense moment passes, as the man grunts and nods

at Hector's hands, still bound with rope. Hector under-

stands. He lifts his hands and the man with some effort

hacks through the rough hemp. Then he turns and wades

back to the boat.

As the man clambers aboard the Leader speaks to him. The

man stops, drops back into the water, and returns to

Hector on the shore. He offers Hector the cut piece of

rope, a weird gesture of conciliation. He even smiles.

Hector refuses the gift. The man stands sheepishly for a

moment, then drops the rope at Hector's feet and wades

back to the boat. A piece of rope in exchange for a

family.

Hector watches them for some time, his family and the

strange Raiders, as they, achingly slowly, retreat from

his view and his life.

At last he turns and moves up from the shoreline. He

goes some distance then stops, thinks for a moment, then

retraces his steps. He goes back to the water's edge,

picks up the piece of rope that bound him, and walks

off with it. It might be of some use to him.

Hector has returned to his cave home, now cold and empty

of life. He is working on his instincts now, still

emotionally in shock. He digs around in the embers of

the fire. Some of the larger bits of wood still hold

some life. Hector bends low and starts to waft expertly         *

and blow at the fire's remains.

We leave our first Hector squatting at his fire, in the

simplest act of physical survival. For him the problems

of emotional survival without his family lie ahead.

This is another, bigger fire. In fact we might be in

hell. A crude furnace blazes. Filthy, sweat-covered

men feed it with wood and charcoal, an endless task given

the ferocity of the fire. To one side of the oppressive,

low-ceilinged furnace room, some small boys endlessly

toil at two large bellows, feeding the flames with jets

of air. OVER the NOISE of the FURNACE someone is

WHISTLING, an odd human sound in an inhuman setting.

Shadowy figures come and go with barrow loads of wood.

We TILT UP TO the space above the furnace to see a mass

of dangerously crude clay pipes, oozing water and steam

at every joint.

Above the heat and filth there is a different world. A

clean, beautifully tiled world of lazing figures, droning

conversations and resonant laughter. It is the hot room

of a bathhouse somewhere in the Roman Empire. We have

advanced 4000 years into the future and it shows in the

technology. It is men's day at the bathhouse. All of

the people relaxing in the water look prosperous and

comfortable with themselves. Slaves wait in attendance,

some around the edge of the pool, others in the water

rubbing backs and massaging shoulders. There are three

or four times as many slaves as bathers, and the proprie-

torial way that they look after their masters gives the

place the odd atmosphere of a kindergarten for over-

indulged grown-ups.

And then we find our Hector. He stands against the wall,

holding a large towel. Although clean-shaven and more

healthy-looking we can still recognize Hector, more so         *

by the look in his eyes. There is a set to his face

that tells us he is a man alone, emotionally detached

from his surroundings. He is a personal body slave. He

watches his master in the pool, alert to any hint of need

that he might have.

Hector's master LUCINNIUS is not as relaxed as the others

around him. He is in anxious conversation with an older        *

man wading beside him. We don't hear what they are saying

but there is enough body language to detect Lucinnius'

pleading and the older man's cool distraction. The older

man gives a final dismissive shake of his head. Hector         *

immediately moves to the side of the pool with the towel as

Lucinnius climbs out of the water.

Hector wraps the towel around his master and follows him,

a look of concern on his face. Lucinnius' worries are

Hector's also.

Hector walks a pace behind Lucinnius through various

chambers of the bathhouse, passing the games area and

the massage room as they go. All around them slaves

attend to their pampered masters.

After an anxious scan of the cool room, Lucinnius goes

towards three men occupying a marble bench.

Hector as if by magic produces a small wooden stool for

his master to sit on as he joins the others. Hector then

moves out of earshot, but still alert to his master's

behavior. Lucinnius is nervous as he attempts to

casually join his friends. The eldest of the three

gives off as much of the aura of a Godfather as a naked

man in a towel can. The other two are deferential to

the older man, and treat Lucinnius with apparent con-

tempt. Hector watches the older man put a paternal

hand on Luccinius's shoulder and speak with a calm

smile on his face. Hector almost winces to see his

master submit to this patronizing treatment. Slave

and master exist so closely together that many of

their feelings are shared. More precisely, Lucinnius's

feelings are shared by Hector. It is a one-way exchange.

From morning until night, and probably in his dreams too,

Hector is living two lives, his own and his master's.

Here in ancient Rome is this what they call classic

schizophrenia?

As Luccinius stands to leave we can    tell by their expres-

sions that the THREE MEN are open in    their contempt for

him. Hector is quickly on his feet     and by Lucinnius's

side as he goes. A final sarcastic     remark comes from one

of the three.

Lucinnius tries to muster his dignity as they leave.              *

This is not the grandeur of Rome, but the dusty main

street of a provincial capital in Greece or Spain or

North Africa. It is difficult to tell from the people

because they are such a cosmopolitan crowd, faces from

every corner of the Mediterranean world. It has some-

thing of the atmosphere of a frontier town in a western,

except that here the half-finished buildings are made of

brick and stone.

Lucinnius leaves the bathhouse. Hector follows three

paces behind him, loaded down with the large towel, the

scrubber, robe, and the wooden stool. The stool goes

with them everywhere, in case Lucinnius has to stop in

the street and converse with a friend. Other notables

are among the street throng, their own slaves tagging

along behind with their little wooden stools. Some have

whole trains of slaves shadowing them. Human status

symbols. Lucinnius stops near some street stalls.

Hector stops beside him.

Hector places the stool at Lucinnius's feet and moves off.

Lucinnius sits down, still absorbed in his problems.

Hector keeps an eye on Lucinnius as he orders the food.

As Hector is given the food and pays for it, he sees

another man, JULIAN, approach Lucinnius, trailed by TWO

SLAVES. One of them is carrying a folding chair much

more substantial than Lucinnius's. Julian and Lucinnius

greet one another and sit down to talk, Lucinnius at

something of a height disadvantage. The Two Slaves move

off to one side. Lucinnius's mood has brightened since

the arrival of his friend. Their conversation seems open

and friendly.

Hector gives his master his food, and then moves to join

the Two Slaves, hearing a snatch of the conversation as

he goes.

Hector offers to share his bread with the other Two

Slaves. They easily fall into conversation, inevitably,

about their masters.

This is news to Hector.

This makes them laugh, Hector less so than the other

two.

The other two nod their heads.

Hector nods his head thoughtfully.

Lucinnius and his friend stand and exchange their final

words, unaware of the scrutiny they have been under, or

so used to it that they are oblivious to it. Hector

and the Slaves hurry to gather up the seats and take their          *

positions behind their masters. The casualness of their

conversation has gone, and they resume the formality of

their roles.

Lucinnius is eager to talk, and tosses his words over his

shoulder to Hector.

Hector obligingly trots a step or two closer to Lucinnius

to aid their conversation.

Lucinnius unburdens himself.

We can see the concentration on Hector's face as he

concocts appropriate responses.

He has a tough occupation, being the alter ego to an

ambitious loser in one of the most competitive and

dangerous societies ever to exist. And he has to carry

the stool and the towel as well.

At home, we find Lucinnius and Hector with the diviner

HERMAS. They are gathered around a shrine in the large

public room. The entrails of a chicken lie on a slab of

marble. Hermas prods them with a knife. He makes much

of the mysteries of his craft, as if it were a skill

beyond ordinary men.

The other two peer over his shoulders. Suitably mysti-

fied, Lucinnius talks in a reverent low voice.

Hermas tetchily stops him.

Lucinnius obeys.

He cuts into the chicken liver and prods around the in-

side. The other two wait in silence.

Lucinnius objects.

Hector looks a Lucinnius, who nods reluctantly. Hector

opens his purse and counts out the coins for Hermas.

Hector is giving Lucinnius a soothing shoulder massage.

Lucinnius is still in a talking mood.   His troubles

won't allow him to relax.

Hector smiles ruefully.

Lucinnius misses the irony in Hector's voice and enthuses

about his own future generosity.

Lucinnius is silent for a while as Hector continues to            *

rub his shoulders.

This burst of resolve has relaxed Lucinnius.   His tense

muscles yield more to Hector's fingers.

THALIA enters the room. She is a household slave, a

Nubian from Africa. She carries a lighted torch and

moves around the room lighting the wall lamps. Lucinnius

watches her.

Hector does as he is told. He takes the torch from

Thalia and discreetly leaves the room, hearing Lucinnius

as he closes the door.

Late at night, Hector is still awake. He rises from his

bed and quietly moves out of the room. He is careful

not to disturb the sleeping forms lying all around him,

some of them sprawled on the floor. He shares his bed-

room with at least eight other slaves. Privacy is a

master's privilege.

In the darkened house, Hector makes his way up some

stairs and along a passage. The only sound is a crack

or two of far-away THUNDER. At the end of the passage,

Hector finds a small ladder propped against the wall.

He climbs this, and lifts open the trap door above his

head.

Odd flashes of lightning far out to sea are the only

source of light as Hector moves across the flat roof.

In one corner he sees what he is looking for, the outline

of a figure resting against the low parapet wall. He

moves towards it. The figure speaks.

It is Thalia. We can tell that they are close.      Hector

sits down beside her.

Thalia looks out towards the sea.

Hector puts an arm around Thalia. At first it feels                 *

strange, their physical intimacy alongside their matter-

of-fact conversation, but gradually we understand it, the

giving and taking of comfort where it can be found, and

the realness of their friendship. Their stroking and

touching and holding becomes good to watch. We get a

feeling for what they have given one another, in stolen

hours and half hours, up here on the roof, the only place

where they can be themselves.

They laugh.    Far away some street DOGS BARK.

By now he is kissing her.

Hector is silent, still kissing her.      He yawns as he              *

speaks.

Hector is back in his bed. A figure enters the room,

steps over the sleeping bodies on the floor and shakes

him awake. Hector comes to. Lucinnius stands over him,

whispering.

Hector wearily takes himself out of bed and follows

Lucinnius out of the room.

Hector is in the henhouse, in the dark, selecting a

chicken for sacrifice. He is about to leave when he

sees a MAN and WOMAN, arms around each other, sitting in

a corner. The Man looks at the white hen Hector is

holding.

Hector smiles. He isn't surprised to see them. They are

only doing what he and Thalia do on the roof. The Slaves

have their meeting places scattered all over the house.

The Man shakes his head with a smile. Hector leaves, the

sleepy chicken going to meet her fate in his arms.

Hector and Lucinnius are approaching the home of Cyprian.

Hector as usual is walking some paces behind his master,

and he carries a large satchel of documents. Cyprian's

home is a street palace. It is early in the morning, but

there is already activity around the house, visitors

coming and going, messengers, petitioners. A few impor-

tant callers arrive in litters, carried by slaves.

Lucinnius and Hector even have to join a line at the door

and are checked in by the gateman. Lucinnius's hopes of

quietly bending Cyprian's ear are dashed. It seems as

if the whole world owes allegiance to this provincial

Mr. Big.

The slaves gather on one side of the courtyard, gossiping

and playing games of chance on the ground. Their masters

wait on the other side of the courtyard, seated on

benches along the wall. Cyprian's aides usher the

visitors into his presence in a regular flow, some have

an audience of a few minutes, others last merely seconds.

Hector keeps an eye on Lucinnius, like a mother watching

her child from a distance on its first day at school.

Lucinnius, sitting expectantly in line, does look a

little pathetic, even ridiculous. Straight-backed, hands

on knees, alert, worried, he looks a bit like a sacri-

ficial offering himself.

Hector plays a game of five-stone with some other slaves

as he watches Lucinnius shuffling up the bench place by

place to the front of the line. We almost expect Hector

to give him a little wave of encouragement as he is

finally summoned into the inner office. Hector waits.

The first signs seem good. Lucinnius doesn't emerge

within the first minute. Cyprian is at least giving him

the time of day. More minutes pass. Hector watches a

game of handball while keeping an eye on the office door.

One or two others, familiar to us from the bathhouse, go

into the office. So does Lucinnius' friend Julian.

Eventually Lucinnius emerges into the sunlight, a broad

smile on his face. Hector relaxes and leaves the ball

game to join him.

Lucinnius strides out of the courtyard with Hector

following after him.

Lucinnius and Hector are walking home in their usual

formation. Hector is closer than normal, so that they

can talk.

Hector is shocked.

Lucinnius shivers to think of them.

Lucinnius quickens his pace.

Lucinnius is obviously in a state of shock.

Hector and Lucinnius are in his study. Lucinnius is

busy clearing up his papers. He is less hysterical than

in the previous scene, more aware of the reality of what

he has to do.

Lucinnius changes his tone, becomes more, in his own

mind, frank, man-to-man.

Hector is stunned with shock...

Hector manages to speak.

Hector is in   the inner courtyard of the house, beside the

kitchen. He    is talking to GALLUS, who is Lucinnius's

ten-year-old   son. Hector has a close friendship with

him. As we    listen to their conversation it becomes clear

that Hector   finds comfort in the boy, for the family that

he lost.

Today there is an air of distraction about Hector.

Understandable, considering his scheduled death.

The kitchen slaves come and go as they talk.

Hector has picked up a large metal plate to help him make

his point.

Gallus sees his playball.     He picks it up.

Gallus ignores this tease, intent on the ball.

Hector becomes more interested.

Gallus walks out the distance from Rome with his fingers,      *

as if there is serious calculation.                            *

His fingers stop on the other side of the ball.

Gallus is stumped for answers.                                 *

Hector remembers that he and the boy's father are              *

supposed to die that night. He looks on Gallus with a          *

new tenderness.

Lucinnius is at it again. In the lamplight, a live

chicken stands on the altar.

Hector and Lucinnius watch it as if their lives depended

on it. Perhaps they do.

He scatters some grain on the table.     The chicken at once

begins to peck them up.

The bird is certainly enjoying his food.

The chicken is inscrutable, as they are prone to be.

A dead chicken adorns Lucinnius's table. He and his

wife, DALMIA, and their son are lying on their couches

picking at the food with their fingers. Lucinnius is

drinking more wine than usual. Hector and the other

household slaves are in attendance. Thalia is also

there, serving her mistress.

Dalmia knows something is up, but she doesn't know what.

She attempts to break the silence. She calls on the cook

from the kitchen.

The kitchen slave quickly appears.

SOLUS looks up at Lucinnius and Hector, but they offer

him no help.

He looks again at Lucinnius and Hector. They look at

each other. Thalia looks at Hector. Dalmia looks at

them all looking at each other, more intrigued than she

was before.

A SLAVE interrupts them.

Lucinnius and Hector look at each other and share a

moment of hope. They might be coming with good news,

perhaps a softening of Cyprian's heart.

The two VISITORS that await Lucinnius and Hector are an

unpromising sight. They are big men, unsophisticated and

look uncomfortable in their well-cut togas. A couple of

the godfather's foot soldiers.

They greet Lucinnius deferentially, but he knows that

they would break his back at the whim of their master.

Lucinnius sighs, as his last hope expires.

The heavies metaphorically keep their foot in the door.

Hector is closing the door when one of the Visitors talks

roughly to him.

Hector instinctively looks to his master. Lucinnius

doesn't protest, but retreats into the house. Hector is

left alone with the Visitors.

He prods at Hector's body freely, showing him what to do.

If it is ticklish, Hector doesn't let on.

We leave Hector nodding obediently as this weirdest of

coaching lessons continues.

Late at night in Lucinnius's study, an oil     lamp and a

candle cast their shadowy light, adding to     the tension in

the room. Hector stands beside Lucinnius,      who is

counting out coins and other valuables on     his table.

Lucinnius places the money in a box on his table. He is

quite drunk, resigned now to his fate. Hector however is

cold sober, grim-faced. Lucinnius looks up at him.

Lucinnius looks at him grimly and manages a smile. He              *

clears his throat and attempts to put a note of ceremony

into his voice.

Lucinnius looks at him for a moment, then reaches out for

his paper and pen.

He scratches out a few words on the paper, Hector looking

over his shoulder, keenly watching what he writes.

Lucinnius finishes writing and lays down the pen.

Lucinnius picks up a large kitchen knife which lies on

the table. He fingers its blade.

A trickle of fear passes across Hector's face.       Will the

half-drunk Lucinnius want to kill him first?

Lucinnius stands and leaves the room.     Hector follows

with the oil lamp.

The house is quiet and in darkness as they walk along the

passage and down the stairs to the washing room. Hector

walks behind, casting the light on Lucinnius's crumpled,

defeated form. Lucinnius begins to sob, at first

quietly, then more loudly and more pathetically. Hector

looks around and behind him, afraid, or perhaps hoping,

that Lucinnius's moans will wake the household.

Lucinnius has worked himself into a dramatic state of

distress, with drink and terror and self pity.

He runs into the tiled washing room, wails loudly and

makes a stabbing motion at his stomach. Hector sees all

of this from behind as he enters the room. Lucinnius

crumples to the floor and squats on his knees. He calls

out in pain.

Lucinnius sits back on the step of the washing pool,

holding his stomach. Hector sits down beside him. They

both look down at the blade, still in Lucinnius' body.

They sit absurdly like this for a long moment, neither

of them knowing what do do next. It's awkward, like in a

waiting room. Then Lucinnius speaks.

Hector speaks gently, like coaxing a frightened animal.

He helps Lucinnius lie out on the marble floor.

The movement has increased the spread of blood over

Lucinnius' clothing. He raises his head.

It looks as if Hector is playing for time.

Lucinnius' voice is fading now. Hector waits, then

reaches down for the knife in Lucinnius' stomach. We

see on his face the effort as he pulls at it, and do we

detect a subtle twisting of the blade to speed Lucinnius

on his way? Lucinnius sighs and twitches a little. It's

as if the life flows out of him as the knife is released

from the wound. His voice is even more faint.

Hector has the knife in his hand, but still he waits,

looking at Lucinnius, willing the last dregs of life from

him.

The whispers fade to a croak. Lucinnius lies still.

Hector has won this final battle of wills. He stands    up,

suddenly repulsed by what has happened. But quickly    he

gathers his wits. He makes his decision. He throws     the

knife down. It clatters along the hard shiny floor.

Hector has run out of the room before it has come to    rest

against the wall.

Hector runs into the study and makes for the box contain-

ing the coins. He puts most of them into a leather money

bag and ties it to his waist. Then he pulls on

Lucinnius's cloak and rushes out of the room. He returns

quickly to pick up his certificate of freedom from the

table. Then just as he is leaving, he again stops, sits

down on the chair, pulls off his worn shoes and places on

his feet a pair of Lucinnius's stout street sandals.

Hector is walking quickly from the kitchen across the

courtyard to the street gate. Near the gate he stops

and looks back at the house. He makes a decision and

retraces his steps across the courtyard and back into

the house.

Thalia is sleeping in a large pallet bed on the floor

with two other women. Hector gently shakes her shoulder,

trying not to wake the others. After a moment or two

Thalia opens her eyes.

Hector whispers to her before she has time to open her

mouth.

The shadowy cloaked figures making their way down to the            *

harbor are Hector and Thalia.                                       *

Nearer the harbor we sense the nighttime work of loading

and preparing ships for the morning tide. By the light

of oil lamps cargos are manhandled aboard, voices shout,

WINCHES CREAK. Hector encounters a night WATCHMAN, but

diverts his suspicion by boldly addressing him.

With an authoritative nod, Hector strides off in the

direction of the noise and lights, Thalia at his heels.

Hector talks when the Watchman is out of earshot.

Hector hurries on, noncommittal in his reply.

Hector and Thalia approach a ship heavily laden with

timber. Final supplies are being carried aboard, super-

vised by two men on the quay. Hector approaches them.

He indicates a man standing on the rear deck. Hector and

Thalia climb up the gangplank and approach him.

Hector and Thalia are asleep, huddled together in a cor-

ner of the ship that they have claimed as their quarters.

A CREWMAN comes and shakes Hector awake. He stirs himself

to the sounds of a SHIP UNDERWAY, the sounds of the SEA-

WASH, the WIND in the CANVAS, the MOANS of the TIMBERS.

Hector wakes Thalia and they clamber out of the darkness

of the hold onto the brightest, freshest of days at sea.

There is no sign of land behind them. The ship is moving

swiftly in a strong, clean breeze and a light sea. We

can tell from Thalia's reactions that she has never been

out at sea before, at least never above deck. Every-

thing is novel to her and it shows, even the movement of         *

the ship. Her excitement is childlike.

Hector, too, is taken by the novelty of it all but is

less prepared to admit it. He waves his hands around the

empty horizon noncommittally.

We can tell he is lying.

She points down into the lower depths of the hold.   Then

she gets even more excited.

They look at each other and then all around them. The

freshness of the day and on an overwhelming feeling of

freedom, exhilarate them. Their senses and their

feelings, are in new territory. They are like children

in a brand-new world.

The Captain on the other side of the ship, beckons them.         *

He points to three shapes in the mid-distance, ships

heading for the port they have left. There is a thrill           *

in their glamor, their fine progress under full sail.

Hector and Thalia look at each other. The Captain smiles

at them and looks back to the ships, coursing healthily

on their way.

Later, the ship is still making brisk progress. Thalia

and Hector are sitting on deck, some distance from one

another. They are quieter now, more thoughtful. Hector               *

catches her eye. Hector is drawn by her smile and moves              *

to join her. They sit quietly, absorbed in thought,

thoughts of each other, their looks and smiles tell us

that. As if they are talking without words. Hector

looks around him. A sailor on the forward deck is

sorting out some rope, an echo of a previous time and                *

place. The wind catches the sailor's hat. He grabs it

from the air and spends time arranging it once more on

his head, just so. A tiny human moment.                              *

A man is driving a heavy two-horse wagon. The wind has

just lifted his hat from his head. He spends some time

replacing it carefully, just so. Watching him from the

back of the wagon is Hector.

The drama of the lives of Thalia and Hector      has played

itself out long ago. Between the breath of       sea breeze

that lifted the hat of the Roman sailor and      the gust of

mountain wind that snatches the hat of the      wagoner, lies

1400 years.                                                          *

Hector sits   in the wagon beside a woman. There are

tantalizing   similarities between their situation and the           *

one we left   Thalia and Hector in on the boat a few

moments ago,   1400 years ago.

The woman and Hector exchange glances now and then,

delicate signals of mutual awareness. Talking without

words.

They are not alone in the wagon, perched on its half load

of timber. With them is a NUN accompanying a GIRL of

about eight. The Girl is tearful. A man, his face

unseen, is snoring underneath his hat. A younger man,

gaunt and hungry-looking, is dressed in the rough

travelling clothes of a monk or PRIEST. Even without his

habit we would know he was a holy man. His incessant

talk tells us.

The Girl is sobbing through all of this.

There is an Irish lilt to his voice which colors what                *

he is saying with a tinge of mischief. He is a difficult

fellow to pin down. Hector looks at him amusedly, still              *

sharing his thoughts silently with the woman, BEATRICE.

The Nun interrupts the Priest cheerfully.

The child sobs more noisily.                                         *

He looks accusingly at Beatrice.                               *

Now Hector is getting the hard looks from the Priest.

The DRIVER of the wagon turns his head briefly to the

Priest.

Hector gestures to Beatrice that he is leaving the wagon

to walk for a while and asks her to join him. She shakes

her head with a smile. Hector smiles, too, then jumps

down from the wagon and, walking slowly, allows it to

gain ground in front of him. The ramblings of the Priest

fade away.

Hector smiles as the Priest's VOICE FADES into the dis-

tance. It is a  cold fresh day of early summer. They are       *

travelling high in the mountains. Hector dawdles on

his way, eating a hard biscuit he takes from his pocket.

The last sound he hears from the wagon is the renewed

WAILING OF the GIRL. Hector lays himself down at the           *

side of the road. His eyes begin to close. Then a SOUND

in the distance makes him open them again. He listens.

MORE SOUNDS drift up to him from the floor of the valley.

He stands up and crosses the track. At first he can see

nothing. He walks back along the rim of the road. Then

he sees where the noise is coming from. A mounted

skirmish is in progress, just where a wooden bridge

crosses the small river, at the very bottom of the valley.

There are no more than 30 knights in full armor, with

twice as many foot soldiers and squires. Even from such

a distance Hector can see and hear that the fighting is

ferocious, almost insane in its intensity. From this

distance it is like a puppet show, except the violence

is real. The scene places Hector in his time and for us

there is a strange feeling to it, almost as if Hector

has awoken from sleep and found himself transported to

some distant age. But this is not the case. Hector is

where he belongs, in Medieval Europe.

Hector makes his decision. With a last look behind him         *

he runs off in the direction of the wagon. Like any wise

citizen of a violent age, Hector knows when to leg it.

Hector catches up with the moving wagon and jumps onto

it, happily back in the security of his fellow                 *

travellers. He smiles at Beatrice.                             *

She smiles at him. He sits opposite her in the wagon,

and allows his foot to touch hers. She doesn't move

away. Hector calls to the Driver.

Hector looks at Beatrice.

Beatrice replies, but in a language that Hector doesn't

understand.

Hector talks back to her.

They both smile. It doesn't seem to disturb them too

much that they don't share a language. They repeat                  *

their incomprehensible statements, just for the fun of

it.

Beside Hector the Girl has stopped sobbing but she is

still troubled. She turns to him and speaks quietly but

with determination.

Hector doesn't know how to respond. He can do nothing               *

to help her, and anyway, is more interested in Beatrice.            *

It is almost dark when the wagon finally turns into the

yard of the farm where they will spend the night.

The Farmer and his Wife have laid out a table with

simple food, a stew, bread and wine. The travellers settle

down to eat. The Priest, however makes a performance out

of his more modest needs. He calls loudly to the wife

working at the open fire.

She brings him a jug of water and he makes much of giving

thanks to God for his simple meal, muttering his grace

quietly to himself, excluding all others from his conver-

sation with the Almighty.

In the dark, sleeping bodies lie all over the floor of an

upstairs room. Gentle snores and regular breathing lay a

blanket of soft sound over the human forms.

One of the forms stirs and sits up on one elbow. Hector,

in another corner of the room, sleeping lightly, becomes

aware of this. He watches as the figure stands up and

picks its way between the bodies to the door. The figure

pauses and crouches over Beatrice. Hector can hear the

distinct sounds of the figure sniffing her, from head to

toe, and then a deep, long sigh. The figure stands up and

moves quietly to the door, disappearing downstairs.

Hector rouses himself and follows the other.

Hector creeps cautiously into the dark kitchen. The                 *

figure has gone to the pantry and can be heard RUMMAGING

there. Hector creeps closer and sees that it is the

Priest. He already has a chicken leg between his teeth

as he hunts for a cup for the jar of wine tucked under

his arm. He emerges from the pantry. He sees Hector

standing by the table. They recognize one another and

relax. The Priest doesn't re-enter his holy act. He

speaks normally, cheekily.

He indicates the large pot containing the remains of the

stew.

He pours some wine into the cup and slides it across the

table to Hector.

Then he digs his hands into the cold stew and eats chunks

of meat as they talk.

Hector takes a drink.

The Priest changes his tone of voice, mocking his own

holy act.

Hector is smiling.

He changes his tone yet again.       He talks straight.

Hector doesn't answer, but smiles. The Priest has

stirred thoughts that he had intended to dampen entirely.

Hector still remains silent.        The Priest is worried.

Hector obeys the Priest without thought.        The Priest is           *

happier now that he is in control again.

Hector approaches the Priest with the bread.

He raises his cup to Hector.

For all his wit and endless talk we can sense a trace of

vulnerabililty in Ronald. For all his bluster, there is

the feeling that he needs Hector as much as he claims

Hector needs him.

Overnight, the remnants of a company of soldiers, fresh             *

from battle, have collected in the courtyard. Some are

tired, dispirited, others are wounded. Our Travellers               *

watch from the farm window. A few mounted knights come

into the yard, herding in front of them a small group of

prisoners, well-dressed knights and squires.

The travellers look out on the exciting scene, and talk

as they eat their breakfast of bread and milk.

He turns to the forlorn Girl.

Hector talks to the company, but means his words for the

Priest.

The Priest looks him straight in the eye.

Hector shakes his head, catching Beatrice's eye.

The Nun puts an arm around the Girl.

Suddenly the door is thrown open and four SOLDIERS man-

handle an inert body, dressed in full armor, into the

room. They scatter the food from the table and lay out

the MOANING suit of armor on it. A young SQUIRE follows

them in and kneels by the knight in the suit. The MOANS

are MUFFLED because the knight's helmet has been battered

out of shape in the battle and can't be removed. The

ugly dent suggests an equally ugly wound inflicted on the

head inside. The Soldiers gingerly try to remove the

helmet. Their efforts are useless. Blood oozes from the

joints of the helmet. The MOANING suit of armor seems

inhuman, robot-like.

The Squire looks at him and nods his head.       Hector looks        *

with sympathy at the boy.                                            *

An OFFICER comes into the room.

The Officer looks at the moaning suit of armor, then at

the astonished group of Travellers. He picks on the

Priest.

The Priest obediently goes up to the knight and starts to

pray earnestly. The Officer turns to the Soldiers.

The Soldiers scatter to   carry out their orders. Hector            *

takes time to watch the   Squire still kneeling beside his          *

father, quietly stroking   the helmet. Ronald the Priest

mutters every prayer he   can remember. The suit of armor

twitches and MOANS.

Hector looks at Beatrice and motions for her to follow

him outside. The Priest looks on helplessly as they

slide past the table and head for the door.

More soldiers have continued to make their way to the

shelter of the farm. Everywhere is the chaos of war.

Wounded men lie awaiting the attentions of either the

medicos or the priest. Prisoners huddle in cowed groups.

Everyone looks for food. Individual soldiers, like lost

souls, run here and there trying to regroup with their

comrades. The youngest are squires of twelve or thir-

teen, the oldest are red-faced, overweight knights in

expensive armor.

Hector and Beatrice have found a quiet corner where they

can sit and talk. Behind them is a group of soldiers,

reserves who have not yet joined the battle. They are

much fresher than the rest and are drilling as a disci-

plined unit.

Their movements are a strange cross between parade ground

drill and battle training. To the BEAT of DRUMS they

perform rhythmic, hypnotic movements, repeating the same

pattern over and over again. A deadly dance, thrusting

their pikes in unison. They become like one evil,

inhuman machine. It is mesmerizing to watch, all the                *

more so in relation to the coy seduction scene that Hector

and Beatrice are acting out. They have the problem of not

sharing a language, but, resourceful as lovers are, they

soon employ this as another titillating element in their

love-play.

Hector smiles, pleased with himself.    Beatrice laughs.

Beatrice has her way, turning the tables on Hector.    He

says it in her language.

Beatrice smiles. In this tiny victory the dynamic of

their relationship is set.

They fall silent, suddenly shy. Beatrice breaks this             *

moment by reaching out to Hector's neck, very delicately,

like a caress. Hector smiles. There first touch. Then            *

it changes. Beatrice completes her movement with a sharp

grab at Hector's hair, and pinches her fingers on something.

Triumphantly she shows him the flea she has caught.

Beatrice looks at him directly now, their intimacy well

under way.

She ruffles his hair, in a motherly but then again sex-                  *

ually provocative way. He understands her well now.

They understand each other perfectly now.         They look

around for a more private spot.

Ronald the Priest still kneels by the inert knight in

armor. The boy Squire still sits by his father's head.

Ronald mumbles quietly to himself in prayer. The knight

is deathly still, no sight or sound of breathing or

moaning. The suit of armor seems to grow even more rigid

as we look at it. There is no sense of it containing

life. The Officer re-enters the room from outside.

The Officer leaves.       Ronald quickly follows him outside.            *

When they have gone the Squire gives his father a nudge,                 *

but there is no response from the knight, just the

impression of lifeless bulk.

Hector and Beatrice have found some privacy, near the

trees and by a low wall. Some bushes hide them from

full view of the farm yard. Hector is sitting cross-

legged and Beatrice kneels behind him, giving his head

a thorough going over. Mutual grooming is the original,

and perhaps the best, form of foreplay. Hector certainly

likes it.

She gives his scalp a final delicious rub, and then stops.

Beatrice loosens her clothing to bare her neck and

shoulders. Hector begins to probe her hair and scalp.            *

She arches her back under the first touch of his fingers.

Hector laps it up, inspired to caress ever more tenderly         *

her scalp and neck, still with the outward purpose of

looking for fleas.

To Hector even her fleas are a delight. He seems to want         *

to keep it as a pet. There is no hope for this man.              *

Beatrice moans softly, happily. Hector still kneading            *

her scalp.

Beatrice replies with a hint of breathlessness.

Beatrice is sighing contentedly now.

In between parting the hairs on her scalp Hector is kiss-

ing her on the neck now. At first it is small, snatched

kisses amongst the grooming, but soon the kisses become

longer and the grooming less.

The Priest is with some seriously wounded soldiers, laid

out in a corner of the farmyard. Whether he is a bogus

priest or not, Ronald is taking his duties seriously.

There is a little of the rogue about him now. He sees

the Nun and the little Girl preparing to leave. They

have acquired a mule. They mount up, the Girl behind

the Nun, and plod off through the farmyard. They stop

briefly beside the Priest to say their farewells.

He talks to the Nun as they move off.

The Priest watches them go, and then returns to his

duties with the wounded.

The Nun's mule turns out of the farmyard and heads off

along the track. A few Soldiers are burying some of

their dead nearby. The Nun watches this and doesn't see

what the Girl sees on the other side, the mingled bodies

of Hector and Beatrice, all pretence at grooming now

gone, engaged in fervent lovemaking. It's probably the

first and last that the Girl will see. A smile flickers

across her face before she turns away forever. Ahead of

her there might be many a bleak night in her convent

when she will remember the image, and that same smile

will return to her lips.

The Priest is kneeling beside a young wounded Soldier.

He is close to death, but in his youth is fighting it.

He is frightened, and clings to the presence of Ronald.

Ronald is mumbling his prayers.

Ronald stays with the boy as he struggles against his

own annihilation.

Ronald behaves well with the dying boy.

The Priest makes his way upstairs in the darkness. He

yawns, a long, contented yawn. He has completed the

hardest day's work that he has undertaken as a priest,

if he really is a priest. If he is not, then the pre-

tence has been just as exhausting. He wants to sleep.

In the room sleeping forms lie here and there in the

darkness. Some officers have moved in and the place is

more crowded than before. The Priest makes his way to

his corner, but on the way he pauses by Beatrice. She

snores lightly. The Priest bends over and takes a long

sniff at her, then he sighs out his admiration.

He steps over her and settles into his own space by the

window. He suddenly misses the presence of Hector. He

looks again at Beatrice, still and sleeping. What the

Priest doesn't see is the extra pair of hands massaging

her neck and head. She moans softly in her pretence of

sleep.

The Priest is troubled, suspicious, but he doesn't know

why. He sniffs again, in the general direction of

Beatrice. The mingled smells that his sensitive nose

detects perplex him, but he settles down, pulling his           *

cloak over his head.

Across the room, Hector's head emerges from the covering

beside Beatrice. They make love quietly in the dark,

also enjoying the thrill of confounding the Priest.

The Priest wakes up. Outside he can hear the first

sounds of the day, the murmuring VOICES of Soldiers in

the yard, the CLATTER OF MILK PAILS. In the room it is

still semi-dark. The Priest sits up. The others have

already left, but Beatrice is there, stretching herself

and fixing her hair. Hector is not with her. She smiles

at the Priest. Then, in another part of the room, Hector

emerges from what looks like a pile of clothing, sits up

and smiles too.

Hector and Beatrice look at each other. The Priest looks

at them in turn. Their cheeky act of innocence mocks

him.

Hector is washing himself by the stream that flows close

by the yard. He drinks a handful of water for breakfast.

The Priest sees him from the farmyard and comes to join

him.                                                                *

Hector is in a cheerful mood, pleased with himself and

his success with Beatrice. The Priest is sullen,

reproachful.

Both of them are unhappy now, confusing one another,

spoiling their friendship.

The Priest is silent. They are saved from hurting each

other more. A Soldier shouts down to them from the farm.

The Priest turns to Hector for what might be the last

time.

The Priest walks back up to the farm. Hector calls out              *

what might be an attempt at an apology or simply another            *

taunt.

The Priest looks back at him briefly, then walks on.

Hector and Beatrice have packed their few belongings into

a shoulder bag. They turn out of the farmyard and walk

down the main track.

Hector catches a last glimpse of the Priest being helped

onto the back of a horse, behind a Soldier. He is ridden

off in the opposite direction with the rest of the troop.

Other battles lie ahead to be blessed, and more battered

bodies requiring comfort.

Hector and   Beatrice are enjoying the first pulse-

quickening   flush of their intimacy, and the thrill of

knowing it   will go further. They chatter freely,                  *

despite not   sharing a language.

The damp greyness of the early morning has lifted and the

sun is shining as they step out onto the higher hills.

Hector and Beatrice have stopped to eat. They shelter in

the fold of a hillside, with a wide stream running some

way below. Hector feeds Beatrice a piece of cheese from

his knife.

Hector seems to know what she is saying. He throws down

his knife and cheese, lying down with her on the grass.

He kisses her breasts and her body eagerly. He lifts her

skirts and caresses and kisses her naked legs and thighs.

She stretches herself out happily, arms spread wide on

the grass. Hector talks through his kisses.

He lifts his head to let her see him sniffing.                     *

Hector kisses her more. She smiles and turns her head to

the sky. Then she starts to giggle.

Hector doesn't understand, and keeps on with his kissing.

Only her persistent giggling makes him stop and look up.           *

Hector sees him too. Down by the stream a head peering

over the top of a rock, not even attempting to hide.

She sits up and straightens her clothing, suddenly

anxious.

But Hector still looks at the figure in the distance.

There is an uneasy silence while Hector works it out.

Then he speaks.

Beatrice doesn't understand.        Hector stands up, still

looking at the figure.

They move cautiously. When they are closer to it, and                 *

can see it for what is is, they walk straight for the

dead body.

It is the body of a young squire, handsomely dressed

in the livery of his master. Such a squire would follow

his knight into battle, guiding him through the chaos.                *

But this boy seems to have died a less public, more

furtive death. He lies leaning against a rock, eyes

open, an expression something like a smile on his face.

There is no sign of a wound.

Hector looks around at the ground.

There is a sadness about this young death in such a

lonely place. Hector and Beatrice are open to this sad-               *

ness, but in their age sentiment was of a tougher strain.

She is already gathering stones.        Hector sees what

Beatrice is doing.

As he lays him down Hector sees a small, dry wound on

the boy's side. Beatrice brings her armful of stones and

starts to build a mound around the squire's head.

Hector helps her by gathering stones from the stream.

Soon they have covered his head completely with stones,

his body lying exposed.

Beatrice is still taken by the boy's shoes.

She looks at Hector.

Hector watches as Beatrice exchanges her old shoes for

the squire's. They fit her well, and she proudly shows

them off to Hector. He smiles at her.

Later, Hector and Beatrice are enjoying each other

immensely, making love by the stream. Beatrice hasn't

removed her new shoes, she likes them so much. She is

dabbing Hector with her perfume which, he has discovered,

she keeps in a small bottle kept in a pouch on a chain

around her neck.

Nearby the corpse of   the squire still lies, its head

shrouded in stones,   as if absurdly hiding its eyes from

the antics of Hector   and Beatrice. The old shoes

Beatrice has placed   on its feet look odd compared to

the fine uniform.                                                  *

Hector and Beatrice seem unaware of the strangeness of

their situation, but perhaps it only looks strange to

our modern eyes.

Hector continues to bask in her wonderful aroma.

They appear to get the gist of one another's love talk.

Hector is watching Beatrice conduct some kind of

ceremony over the corpse of the squire. She takes a

handful of dried flowers or herbs from a pouch in her

bag. Mumbling strangely and quickly to herself, she

walks around the corpse three times, scattering the

leaves over the body.

Hector is fascinated, but a little uneasy. He watches

from a safe distance. During the few moments that it

takes, Beatrice seems like a different person.

Then, all of a sudden, the familiar, friendly Beatrice

returns. She completes her ceremony by throwing a few

drops of her perfume over the body. She smiles.                    *

They have reached the summit   of the hills. It is like

the roof of the world. Below    them lies the valley. The

air is clean. The landscape    looks untouched by man,

but a few smudges of smoke in   the distance suggest farms

or villages. There might be    the glimpse of a castle on

a hill.

If it all feels oddly familiar to us, then perhaps it

is the memory of a picture in a forgotten story book, or

an ancient landscape on a gallery wall. Once again in

the film there is the tantalizing feeling of awaking not

from a dream, but in a dream.

The moment passes in the more down to earth concerns of

Hector and Beatrice.

They move off, each thinking that they have reached

agreement. Beatrice starts to sing as they make a                *

gentle descent into the forests below.

Beatrice is milking a stray cow they have found in the

forest. Hector is watching her, especially her hands.

She manipulates the udders of the cow deftly, sexily.

Her hands seem to have sensual personalities all of

their own. She is chattering non-stop, explaining the            *

subtleties of milking to Hector. But he can't take

his eyes or his mind off her thrilling hands. He

responds distractedly.                                           *

Hector lies by their small fire, watching Beatrice, who

sleeps by his side. She is dreaming. She mumbles in

her sleep, whole sentences. She turns this way and that.

Hector watches in fascination.

We feel the echo of another night when a man watched

someone sleep and dream.

He handles some of the things spilling from her bag,

lying beside him. Her dried flowers and herbs, which he

sniffs, her little bottles and phials. Witches brew? Or

simply an early version of a cluttered handbag?

We don't know what is passing through Hector's mind.

Perhaps he is trying to work out how he came to be lying

with the strange, wonderful, unknowable creature by his

side. And how many people have done that through the

ages, in caves or by campfires, or in suburban bedrooms?

There are many ways in which we will be able to connect

with this perplexed, flea-ridden man, far away from home,

huddling by a fire in the forest, trapped in his time, as

we all are.

Hector and Beatrice are on the move again. They make

their way down into the thickening forest. Beatrice

walks ahead, light-footed and humming to herself. She

seems to be in comfortably familiar territory now. The

mist swirls about him as Hector follows on behind,

tagging along as if caught in her sexual wake.

Hector and Beatrice have reached the river, broad and

slow-moving. Beatrice has hailed a boatman from the far

side. He maneuvers his small boat to them and they

clamber aboard. Beatrice and the boatman greet each

other familiarly. They gossip amiably as the ferry makes

its way across the river. Hector sits quietly with a

smile on his face, their chatter incomprehensible to him.

As they climb out of the ferry Hector is suddenly unsure

of what he is doing.

He mimes what he means.

Before he can protest she has moved off.        So he follows

her.

They have reached the outskirts of a village. Beatrice

turns off the main track and up a narrow path. Hector

follows her. Soon she stops at a small house close to

an orchard. The house sits in the mess of a run-down

farm yard, chickens and goats running here and there.

Beatrice opens the door of the house and goes inside.

Hector hesitates before following her.

Beatrice turns to him when they are inside.

Hector stands looking around the small dark room.

Beatrice suddenly seems shy and awkward.

Hector looks at her in silence.

She crosses the room to a wooden chest under the window.

She lifts the lid and removes some men's clothing, rough

working trousers and a hide jacket.

She holds the jacket up against Hector to measure it.

Hector's reaction to a dead man's clothing is                       *

predictable.                                                        *

Hector is beginning to understand what she means, but he

keeps his feelings to himself. Beatrice talks on. Now

that she has started, she wants to say it all.

Beatrice falls silent, overtaken     by her shyness. Hector

understands fully what she means     now, but his mind is

a confusion. He can't respond.       She tries to direct his

thoughts to the one area she is     sure about.

She climbs a   ladder nearby and lifts open a trapdoor

on the wooden   ceiling. Hector climbs up to join her and

together they   stand on the ladder with their heads poking

into the tiny   space above.

Beatrice is proud of her bed, a rough mattress on the

floor covered in some blankets she has probably made

herself.

The bed takes up most of the space of the small attic.

They look at it together.

She laughs. Hector's expression lightens a little too.

It occurs to him to take up her offer immediately. She               *

catches his thought, and the moment tingles happily.                 *

Then from outside they hear voices. Firstly a young Boy

calling.

Beatrice and Hector   descend back in the room. A BOY

of about eight and   a GIRL of ten are coming in from the            *

garden. They have    been working outside. Beatrice goes

to embrace each of   them. Hector's face is a confusion

once again.

The Girl eyes Hector up and down.

Beatrice pronounces his name with care.      She stands

proudly by her children.

The CREAK of a door makes Hector turn his head.

An OLD WOMAN stands in the main doorway, smiling at

Hector and nodding her head. She speaks to her daughter.

Hector stands, surrounded by instant family, and doesn't

know what to do. Eventually he speaks.                               *

He mimes with his hands. Beatrice understands that he

wants some breathing space. She talks to her son.

She takes off the dead Squire's shoes and puts them on

the Boy's bare feet. He is delighted. He does a little

dance in them before leaving with Hector.

Hector stands at the well some way from the house.

Beatrice's garden is a madness of wild flowers, harvested

by her for scents and powders. She is a remarkable

woman, living as she does in the harsh male world of

her time. The scented air and the dizzy SOUNDS OF the

BEES almost make Hector swoon. He is experiencing the

full, heady impact of Beatrice, and it is summed up in

a full-blown pollen-filled sneeze.

He drinks at   her well. The Boy is beside him, still

engrossed in   his new shoes. Hector splashes some water

on his face   and looks back at the house. He has some

decisions to   make.

The Mother sits by the window in the nearest thing to

a comfortable chair that the house has to offer. She

is working on some lace. Hector enters the room to

watch her. He smiles and stands shyly at the door. The

Mother thinks he wants her chair for himself. In a

flurry of apology she rises, drops her work and motions

for Hector to have the good seat. He is full of

embarrassment.

He guides the Mother back to the good chair. They

struggle comically for a while, but eventually she allows

Hector to settle her there. She mumbles unhappily.

Hector gently pacifies her.

The old woman   allows herself a shy smile. Whether in

innocence or   mischief, she has secured the best seat in

the house for   herself. If he stays, Hector will never

dare rest his   bones in it.

Hector has retreated to the yard. The Girl is

boiling some dyes in a cauldron over an open fire. The

Boy is working at a basketful of flower heads, pulling

petals and separating the hearts, putting them in a

large jar of colored liquid.

Hector is aware of Beatrice watching him. She is

returning to the kitchen, firmly holding a struggling

chicken, wings flapping and feathers flying everywhere.

This chicken is making the supreme sacrifice in

Beatrice's final effort at total seduction, a wonderful

meal. Hector is guiltily aware of this as their eyes

meet briefly.

Hector takes in   what the Boy is doing and joins in

the work. The    Boy smiles at Hector's initial clumsiness.

He motions for   Hector to have a sniff of the jar of

liquid. Hector    does so.  The smell is heady and pleasant.

The Boy says something and points towards his sister.

She stands by her cauldron, stirring the bubbling liquid.

Hector goes to watch her work. He looks in the cauldron.

Without thinking, Hector leans over the cauldron to

sniff. A hideous odor assaults him. He backs off.

The Girl says something to him, and points to a bucket

of liquid at her feet. Hector makes out something like

the word "peepee."

The Girl nods enthusiastically.      The Boy is sniggering.

Hector sits at the table with Beatrice and her family.

There is an air of awkward silence, although the Boy

and Girl look openly at Hector, perhaps assessing him as

a future father.

The meal has been served in a communal pot. In Beatrice's

house there is the luxury of small individual plates.

The others wait for Hector to begin, but he indicates

to the old Mother to help herself first. She does, and

she doesn't stop until her plate is heaped high with

food. There is definitely some power play going on in

the old woman's mind, although her face is all innocence.

Hector submits, taking only a modest portion of food.

The old Mother's appetite is prodigious. It is comical

to watch her little frame consume so much, quietly

and methodically. She is an eating machine.

During the meal Beatrice and Hector exchange glances. But

this time their talking without words is a serious affair.

From the kitchen Beatrice watches Hector in the garden.

he is making an effort to appear relaxed, but as he

paces here and there Beatrice knows that he is unhappy.

She leaves the kitchen to join him.

Hector opens his heart to her, knowing she will understand

his feelings if not his words.

It is awkward for Hector to say goodbye.

Hector fumbles awkwardly with his bag and then walks

off down the track. He turns to look at Beatrice.

She stands outside her house for a long time, watching

him until he turns onto the main road and OUT OF SIGHT.

The pain and the awkwardness in   Beatrice and Hector

are specific, but the scene of   parting is timeless.

Is this the ten millionth such   parting, or the billionth?

It is one of them at any rate,   and a sad one.

Hector has reached the river, but it is already growing

dark and the boatman has gone for the night. Hector

sees the boat, dragged out of the water.

He sits down against the trunk of a large tree.       His              *

eyes begin to close.                                                   *

Hector awakes. He looks around him. He is on a huge                    *

raft, made of ship's timbers. We have left our previous

Hector sitting under his tree 400 years ago. This

Hector is awakening into what might be a nightmare.

The huge raft is many smaller rafts lashed together.

There are over a hundred and fifty people perched on

them, lying or squatting in sleep. It is early morning.

The sea is calm around them, but the deep ocean swell is

still there to remind them of their predicament, menacing,

like a controlled anger.

Hector is fully awake now, sitting against some boxes.

He speaks to ANDRE sitting close by.

Andre is Hector's   slave, still bound to him in service

through shipwreck   and disaster. Our Hector is now a

master. Andre is    a young Asian. A quiet, capable,

intelligent man,   but with that same lost look in his

eyes that Hector   had as a slave. He too is far from

home.

Hector looks around him at the squalid mass of distressed

humanity.

Some figures rise and an argument takes place, like

a domestic squabble. We can hear some of their exchanges.

There is a flurry of movement amongst the figures, then

a splash, then a cry of a Woman. The noise has awakened

others. All over the raft figures are coming awake,

sitting up, taking in the new day, and the dreadful

reality of their situation.

Andre speaks to Hector.

The more we see     of the people, their costumes, weapons,

mannerisms, the     easier we will place them in their

time. They are      survivors of a foundered ship some time

at the height of     the great colonial empires. The year

could be 1590.      The place is the Indian Ocean.

Hector turns his eyes to another part of the raft,

closer to him. He watches a man and woman. The woman,

URSULA, still has her eyes closed, sleeping on a pile of

canvas. The man, FRANCISCO, stands beside her holding

a cloak over her to protect her from sea spray. His eye

catches Hector's, and they hold each other's gaze for a

long time. There is antipathy but also pain in their

look.                                                              *

A man, DOM PAULO, moves among the waking wretches.      He

speaks with authority.

Someone speaks from under a crude canvas shelter.

Dom Paulo strides off to his station by the makeshift

rudder.

The sun is up, and Dom Paulo was right. The raft is

now standing off-shore riding out the heavy ocean surf

before finally beaching. The strong are helping to row

ashore, under the shouted instructions of the NAVIGATOR.

Those too weak to help are huddled beside their posses-

sions, hoping to survive this final trial of the sea.

Hector works his oar with the rest. He has time to cast

a glance at Ursula and Francisco. Francisco in his

manic-heroic way manages to row while at the same time

trying to offer a steadying arm to Ursula.

If Hector had time or energy to laugh, he would.

The raft is in the full rage of the surf. The sense

behind its loose construction is obvious now. Snake-like

it rides the waves, one half up, the other down. The

beaching isn't easy. A few people are washed overboard

with no way of saving them. Finally the raft makes it

through the barrier of the outer surf. They are in a

long curving bay. Up from the beach lies an area of             *

dunes, and beyond that a thick belt of jungle.

The raft scrapes onto the sand. Those near the beach

scramble ashore, immediately prostrating themselves in

prayers of thanks while those at the back jump into

the water and clumsily wade the last few feet to safety.

Hector's attention is never far from Ursula. She is             *

struggling in the water with some of her baggage. A

youth, NUNO, goes to help her. Hector overtakes him and

nudges him out of the way, offering to take Ursula's load

from her shoulders. She refuses his help. Waist-deep in         *

water they tussle over her bundle of possessions. Hector        *

overpowers her, wrestles her load from her grasp, angrily

wades to the shore and dumps it on the sand. In amongst

the drama of their situation their little battle of wills

seems petty and pathetic, but it reveals much about their

past.

Soon the survivors are dragging their possessions from

the raft. They have managed to hoard a surprising amount

from their doomed ship. Carpets, chests, chairs, all

are dragged ashore.

Civilization has taken hold quickly in this little corner

of Africa. Dom Paulo, the leader, already has a table

and chair set up in the sand, and behind him SAILORS are

erectig a tent-like house, made from timbers and rich

tapestries and carpets. The others are making their own

shelters all along the beach. A regular little community

is taking shape, a crazy, rich-textured village decked out

in all the colors of the East. The silks and ginghams

that were destined for the finest halls in Europe now give

shelter to sick slaves, starving sailors, ruined traders

and grieving mothers.

Some of the survivors have   recovered sufficiently from

the trauma of near death to   mark out the boundaries of

their new beach homes with   lines of stones. The habits

of ownership die hardest of   all.

Although Dom Paulo is the man in authority he is also a

man in deep shock. Most of what he has earned or

plundered in his colonial years now lies at the bottom

of the ocean. Since he is socially superior to anyone

else on the ship he assumes responsibility and command.

There are probably fifty men among the survivors more

suited to lead them to safety.

By Dom Paulo's side always is his SON. A quiet boy of

about eleven. He is like a little miniature of his

father, dressed in the same style of clothes. He is a

constant, silent witness to everything that Dom Paulo does,

good or bad, wise or foolish. He and his father are a

continuing fascination for Hector, and we can enjoy

Hector watching the boy watching his father. Some of the

absurdities and comedies of the situation can be high-

lighted in this way. There can be sadness in it too

however, the pain of a son witnessing his father's

compromises or failures all too closely, and Dom Paulo's

sad awareness of his image slowly tarnishing in his

son's eyes.

Amidst the construction work, Dom Paulo is talking with

some of his OFFICERS.

The Officer leaves to carry out his orders.    Dom Paulo

addresses another of his men, Da Cunha.

Hector and Andre are walking through the half-built

village.  Andre is carrying Hector's possessions, a

rolled-up carpet and a bolt of colorful cloth. We feel

an echo of the days when Hector was a slave, walking

two paces behind with his master's possessions.

Hector finds what he is looking for. Francisco is

working on a shelter for himself and Ursula, with the

help of some slaves. Hector approaches him, making

another attempt to heal wounds from his past.

Francisco barely stops his work to reply.

His stubborn rejection of Hector reveals just how

strong their friendship once was.

Then from along the beach the sound of RAISED      VOICES

distracts them. They see some figures, laden       with

supplies, running off into the forest. Others       are

following them, discharging MUSKETS, shouting      for the

DESERTERS to stop. Hector and Francisco walk       briskly

in the direction of the trouble. They see two       of the

Deserters being overtaken by their pursuers.       The rest

make their escape into the jungle.

Hector and Francisco reach Dom Paulo's office in the

sand. The leading citizens are gathering there as

the two captured Deserters are brought in.

Dom Paulo looks at the two prisoners.

He speaks again to the Sailor.

Francisco steps forward, outraged.

Dom Paulo's authoritative manner vanishes in an instant.

He becomes hesitant, unsure of himself. As always, his              *

Son watches every detail of the exchange.                           *

Dom Paulo looks around at the assembled notables,

confused, out of his depth. Other opinions are voiced.

The captured Deserters look on helplessly as their lives

are argued over.

Dom Paulo turns to the Priest.

The Priest throws open his arms noncommittally.

Dom Paulo is deeply confused.

Francisco confuses him even more.

A lot of hands go up. Hector hesitates, his instincts

are not for killing. But the force of the majority

weighs on him. He starts to raise his hand. At that

moment, as he scans the crowd, he meets the eyes of the

Deserter whose death they are voting on. For a moment

they communicate. Hector is thrown. He drops his hand,

only to find in the next instant the stern gaze of

Salgado on him. He hesitates again, then starts to

raise his hand. Then the eyes of the Deserter find him

once more. This comic pantomime goes on while a solid

majority of the crowd firmly raise their hands.

One of the Deserters raises his own hand meekly.

Then he looks to Salgado.

Then the other Deserter raises his hand too.

Dom Paulo thinks.

DA CUNHA steps forward.

He turns to the Sailors holding the Deserters.

The dazed Deserters are led off.       Dom Paulo's face clouds

in doubt again.

Dom Paulo looks over the faces of the men.       He stops at

Hector.

Hector doesn't have the will to accept or the courage to            *

refuse. He is saved by another young man, ALVAREZ, eager

to prove himself.

We can sense the feeling of relief in Hector. Dom                   *

Paulo's son has been a silent witness to everything that            *

has happened, but his blank face reveals nothing of his             *

feelings.                                                           *

It is growing dark. Fires are being lit outside     the

shelters. Andre is building Hector's tent while     Hector

watches him. The tent is only large enough for     one

person, and somehow looks mean compared with the    others.

He looks across to the well-made shelter of Ursula and

Francisco. Ursula herself works at the fire.

Hector turns to Andre.

Andre leaves.

Hector goes inside his little    house. He puts his back

to the entrance and opens the    canvas sack which contains

all his possessions. He pulls     out his prize, a sizeable

chunk of bread and some dried    fruit. He guiltily gnaws

at the hard bread.

He is surprised by the sound of the boy, Nuno outside.

Hector quickly stows his food back into his sack, and

with a grunt of irritation sticks his head out of the

shelter.

Nuno is holding four fruits, about the size of large

apples, but green and thick-skinned.

Nuno makes to leave, but then hesitates.

Nuno is looking down the beach to the remains of the

raft on the shoreline. The shapes of the two Deserters

chained there can just be seen.

He looks at the fruit he has just given Hector.

Nuno looks disappointed. His eyes turn again to his

playmate tied to the raft.

Nuno is silent, unconvinced.

Nuno stomps away in silence.       Hector shouts after him

cheerily.

