Against Black, TITLE CARD:

The Blank Screen and Title Card SHATTER to reveal...

During Brian's monologue, we see various views of things

inside the school including Bender's locker.

We see CLAIRE and her FATHER sitting in their car in the

parking lot.

Claire is the prom queen and is clearly a snob.

Claire rolls her eyes and gets out of the car and walks

up the school front steps

We are in BRIAN's car.  His MOTHER is there and so is

his little SISTER.  He is sort of a nerd.

Brian gets out of the car and walks towards the school.

We see ANDREW and his FATHER.  Andrew is clearly a jock;

hes wearing a lettermans jacket with lots of patches on it.

Andrew gets out of the car and walks into the school.

We see JOHN BENDER walking towards us.  He is wearing

sunglasses.  A car is coming towards him but he doesn't

stop walking.

The car slams on its breaks directly in front of him.

Bender gets out of the frame.  Out of the car steps

ALLISON.  She is dressed all in black.  She steps

forward to look in the car's front window and the car

drives away.

There are six tables in two rows of three.

Claire is sitting at the front table.  Brian comes in

and sits at the table behind her.

Andrew comes in and points at the chair next to Claire

at the front table.  She shrugs and he sits there.

In walks Bender, he touches everything on the checkout

desk and takes a few things in the process.

He walks over to where Brian is sitting and points to

the table on the opposite side of the Library.  Brian

reluctantly gets up and moves.

Bender sits at the table where Brian was and puts his

feet up.

Allison walks in.  She walks all the way around the

library and sits in the back corner table, just behind

Brian.

Andrew and Claire look at each other and snicker.

Brian looks at her in confusion and then turns away.

Enter RICHARD VERNON, a teacher.  He holds a stack

of papers in his left hand.  He addresses the group with

such disrespect it makes you wonder how he ever got the

job.

Claire raises her hand.

Vernon doesn't care.  He just continues to talk.

Bender spits into the air and catches the spit in his

mouth again.

Claire looks like she is going to gag.

He glances up at Bender and points at him.

Vernon pulls the chair out from under Bender's feet.

Vernon passes out paper and pencils and takes no notice

of Bender.

Bender looks up.

Brian raises his hand and then stands.

He sits.

Vernon points.

He looks around at them.

Vernon looks at him suspiciously.

Vernon leaves.

Everyone tries to get comfortable and we hear a loud

snapping sound.  Brian turns and looks and it is

Allison, biting her nails.

Bender's eyes widen as he turns to look.  Everyone is

looking now.  Allison notices them looking at her.

Allison spits part of her nail at Bender.

We see Vernon look out from his office.

We see Brian playing with his pen.

He attaches the pen to his bottom lip and puts the top

under his upper lip.

Bender looks at him in utter confusion.  Brian notices

this, laughs and takes the pen out of his mouth--

embarrassed.

Bender and Brian begin to take their jackets off at the

same time.  They both notice this.  Brian stops removing

his jacket.

Bender takes his all the way off.  Brian rubs his hands

together and pretends to be cold.  He pulls his jacket

back on.  He turns and looks at Bender who is still

staring at him.

Bender glares at him and Brian utters an uncomfortable

laugh.

Bender turns away and crumples up his essay paper.  He

throws it at Claire.  It misses and goes over Claire's

head.

Andrew and Claire acknowlege it but continue to ignore

Bender.

Bender starts loudly "singing" the musical part of a

song.  Nah, nah, nah, nah, nah, nah...nah, nah, nah...

Bender stops "singing" abruptly.

We hear Bender unzip his fly.

Everyone is now looking at Bender.

Bender gasps mockingly.

He turns to Brian.

Brian points at himself with his pen.

Claire turns and glares at him.

Bender ignores him.

Bender mockingly registers pain in his face.

Claire rolls her eyes.

Claire and Andrew turn to face Bender, both furious.

We see Vernon in his office.

They all look at each other.  Andrew turns away from

Bender.

Bender stands up and walks over to the railing.  He sits

on it.

Bender probably is upset at this and he pauses a moment

before speaking.  He doesn't let his emotions out,

however.

Andrew and Claire look at each other and laugh at

Bender.

Brian feels left out.

Brian again feels he needs to contribute.

Bender nods and turns to Claire.

Bender points at Brian.

Bender lets out a moan of fake agony.

Brian becomes interested.

They hear Vernon moving around out in the hall so Bender

quickly comes and sits in the chair between Claire and

Andrew.  He folds his hands on the table.

Vernon goes back into his office.  Bender laughs and

gets up.  He starts walking towards the double doors

that separate the library from the hallway.

Bender turns and points at Brian.

Bender turns back away and goes to the door.  He looks

around cautiously and removes a screw from the door.

We see Vernon getting a drink at the fountain. He stands

up and checks the way he looks in a mirror.  He does a

muscular pose and utters some manly jibberish Cobadonga!

Brian looks up.  Bender is messing with the door to the

library.

The door slams shut.  Bender runs back to his seat.

We see Vernon walking back to his office.  He stops and

listens to them through the closed door.

We see Brian as we hear Vernon in the hall.

He opens the door and storms in.

For a few seconds no one says anything, they just stare

at Vernon.

Vernon turns to Claire.

Vernon looks around and looks at Bender.

Vernon looks at Allison in the back.

Allison lets out a squeak and slams her face onto the

table, hiding in her jacket hood.

Vernon goes over to the door.  He tries to hold it open

by putting a folding chair in front of it.

The door slams shut despite the chair.

They laugh.

Vernon opens the door again.  He comes back in.

Andrew gets up and walks over to Vernon.

Vernon and Andrew are now attempting to move the steel

magazine rack in front of the door.

They get it into the doorway and it blocks the entire

door.

Vernon thinks about it.  He turns to Andrew.

Brian points at them and Bender glares at him.

Andrew and Vernon come back into the main section of

the library.

Andrew sits.

Vernon turns to leave.

Vernon spins in his tracks and faces Bender again.

Claire mouths the word "Stop" to Bender.

Bender glares at him.

Vernon leaves and closes the door.  A musical riff

builds to a climax as Bender screams.

We see the clock, it reads a quarter to eight.

We see Bender, lighting his shoe on fire and lighting a

cigarette with his shoe.

We see Claire thinking.

We see Brian playing with his balls.

We see Andrew playing with his sweatshirt.

We see Allison pulling a string around her finger and

making it turn purple.

We see Bender put the flames on his shoe out.  He then

plays air guitar.

We see Allison drawing.

We see Andrew playing paper football.  He cheers

silently.

Allison shakes dandruff from her hair onto her picture.

We see everyone fall asleep.

Later.

Vernon is standing there staring at the sleeping kids.

Everyone raises their hands.

Later.

We see the clock, it now says 10:22.

We see Andrew stretching.  We see Bender tearing pages

out of a book.  He is tossing them around.

He continues to tear pages out.

Bender tosses the rest of the pages at Brian.  He picks

up the card catalogue drawer and begins to take cards

out.

Andrew turns to Claire.

Claire shrugs.

Suddenly, from the back of the room.  Allison speaks.

Everyone looks at her shocked.  Allison blows her hair

out of her eyes and grins.

Bender jumps down and goes next to Andrew.

Bender turns and walks away from him.  Andrew follows

and pushes Bender.

Bender points his middle finger at the floor.

Bender flips his hand around so he is now giving Andrew

the bird.

Brian comes over and puts a hand on each of the guy's

shoulders.

Andrew pushes away from Brian.

Bender turns to Brian.

Bender starts to walk away.

Bender walks away.

He mimes becoming fat, making noises.

Claire gives him the finger.

Bender bends down closer to Claire.

Claire is getting upset.

Bender slowly stands and faces Andrew.

Bender walks over to where Andrew is standing.

Bender goes to hit him but Andrew gets Bender down on

the ground with a wrestling move.

Andrew gets up.

Bender gets up.

Andrew turns and walks away.  Bender takes out a

switchblade and opens it.

He stabs the switchblade into a chair.

We see the janitor, CARL come into the room.

Brian is embarrassed.

Everyone groans.  Bender smiles.

The clock says 11:30.  Vernon gets up and leaves.

Bender starts to whistle a marching tune and everybody

joins in.

Vernon enters.  Bender begins to whistle Beethoven's

5th.

Bender stands.

Bender grins.

He points at Andrew.

He points at Allison.

Allison gets up.

Andrew and Allison are walking in the hall.

Allison doesn't answer.

Allison still doesn't answer.

Allison waits for two beats and then speaks.

Allison smiles.

Allison doesn't answer.

Allison snaps back.

They stop walking and Andrew leans against the wall.

Claire and Bender and Brian are all sitting around

waiting for the Cokes.

Claire rolls her eyes and turns away in disgust.

Brian shushes Bender and points at Claire whos back is

still turned.

Claire spins around.

Bender just stares at him.

Claire laughs.

Bender looks suprised.

Claire smiles and nods.

Later.

Everybody has lunches now.

Claire begins to take hers out of a small shopping bag.

Bender grabs a Coke and tosses it over to Allison who

catches it without even looking up.

Bender then watches Claire set up a sushi platter.

We now watch Andrew take a couple sandwiches out of his

bag, a bag of potato chips, an apple, a banana, a bag

of cookies and a carton of milk.

Allison opens her Coke and it fizzes over.  She loudly

slurps it up off the table and her fingers.

Andrew sees Bender looking at him.

Allison opens her sandwich and and tosses the meat up.

It lands on the sculpture above.

She opens some pixie stix and pours the sugar on the

sandwich and then puts Cap'n Crunch on top of that.

She crushes the sandwich together and loudly eats it.

Bender goes over and sits by Brian, Bender takes

Brian's bag lunch.

Bender reaches in the bag and pulls out a thermos.  He

sets it on the table and points at it.

Bender goes in again and pulls out a juice box.

Brian reaches toward the bag and Bender slaps his hand.

Andrew and Claire smile at each other.  Bender stands.

Bender mimes mother kissing father and then father

kissing mother and then father punching mother in the

face.

Suddenly it's not so funny anymore.

Bender stands again and points forward.

Bender slams his hand back to slap his invisable

mother.

He reaches out and pretend he's his father hitting him.

Bender actually looks hurt.

Bender comes over to Andrew and rolls up his right

sleeve to reveal a circular shaped burn.

Bender begins to walk away.

Bender walks over to a map table and throws all the

maps on the floor.  He climbs up on top of the table and

then up to the second floor balcony.

Vernon puts an orange in his mouth and then attempts to

pour coffee out of his thermos.  The top comes off and

the coffee goes all over his desk.

Vernon walks into the hallway, talking to himself.

Bender comes out of the library doors followed

bye veryone else.

Bender and Claire are walking next to each other.

Brian and Andrew are walking next to each other and at the

end of the line, Allison is following.

Bender opens his locker.

Bender pulls out a bag of marijuana.

Bender walks away.

Claire walks after Bender.

Andrew follows the other two.  Brian looks at Allison

who is standing there with her mouth open.

Brian turns and leaves.  Allison steals the lock off of

Bender's locker.

We see the crowd walking down the hall.

They see Vernon down one of the halls.  We have various

sequences of them running around and seeing Vernon

until they stop.

Allison squeaks.

They all go Andrew's way and run into a hall closed by

an iron gate.

Bender puts his bag of marijuana into Brian's

underwear.

Bender runs away singing loudly.  I wanna be an

airborne ranger...

We see Vernon hear Bender.

The rest of them run.

We see Vernon looking for Bender until he finds him in

the gym.

Bender is going up for a basket.

He dunks the ball.  Vernon enters.

Bender fakes the ball at Vernon.  He then sets the ball

down and rolls it at Vernon who kicks it back at him.

They leave.

The rest of the kids are all sitting back in their

seats when Bender and Vernon enter.  Vernon pushes Bender.

Andrew laughs.

Vernon grabs Bender's shoulder.

Bender takes his sunglasses out of his pocket and lays

them in front of Andrew.

Bender leaves but not before pushing stuff over on the

way.

Vernon has put Bender in a closet and is in there

talking to him.

Bender just sits there staring at Vernon.  Vernon fakes

a punch and Bender flinches.

Vernon leaves and locks the closet door after him.

Bender climbs into a hatch in the ceiling and

disappears.

Bender is slowly crawling through a heating duct.

The ceiling under Bender gives and he falls through.

We see the door to the bathroom.  We hear Vernon

inside.

Bender walks down the stairs.

We hear Vernon in the hall.

Vernon enters.

We see Bender under the table by Claire's legs.  He

sits up and bangs his head on the table.  He groans.

Above the table, Andrew and Claire try to take credit

for the noise by making more noise.

Under the table, Bender looks between Claire's legs and

can see her panties.  He puts his head between Claire's

legs.

Claire squeels.  She squeezes Bender's head between her

knees.

Everyone starts faking a coughing fit.

Allison laughs at Vernon.

He turns and walks away.  We see that he still has the

toilet seat cover stuck to his pants.

Vernon leaves.

Everyone laughs except Claire who lets Bender out to a

barage of slaps.

Bender gets up and walks over to Brian.

Brian gives Bender his bag of marajuana.  Bender turns

and walks away.

Claire gets up and goes after him.  Then Brian.

Andrew goes.

We see Vernon go down the stairs.

Brian, Bender and Claire are sitting in a circle and

laughing hysterically.

Bender lights Claire up and she coughs the smoke out.

Brian laughs at her.  He exhales and tries to eat the

smoke.  He talks in a really weird voice.

Brian waves Claire over to him and he falls over.

We see Andrew emerge from a really smokey room.  He

inhales another puff and then starts dancing to

everybody's applause.

He goes back in the room he was in.  He screams and it

shatters the glass in the door.

Vernon is glancing through the confidential files in

school basement.

Carl enters.

Carl, laughing, comes over and looks at the files that

Vernon was looking at.

We see Andrew and Brian laughing.  Allison is hanging

out over by the statue in the back of the library.

Allison suddenly takes interest in the conversation and

as she speaks, she moves over and sits next to the two.

Brian and Andrew look at her in confusion.

Andrew is impressed.

Allison reaches in her bag.

She produces it in her hands and grins.

Allison reluctantly hands over the wallet and Brian

glances through it to make sure nothing is missing.

We see Bender, he is brushing his teeth with one of

Claire's cosmetic brushes.

We see Claire looking through Bender's wallet pictures.

Bender clearly doesn't want to answer that.  He acts

defensive.

We cut back to where Andrew, Brian and Allison are

sitting, Andrew is looking through Brian's wallet.

Brian laughs.

Allison looks up suddenly.

Allison looks hurt and then resentful.  Just to spite

them, she dumps the contents of her bag onto the couch.

Lots of stuff comes out.

Brian looks at her and then moves over to Andrew.

Allison starts putting everything back in her purse.

Allison gets up and walks away.

Andrew gets up and goes after her.

Andrew turns away and Allison starts to cry.

Allison is silently crying.

Andrew nods.

They both are crying silently.

Vernon and Carl are sitting talking.

Vernon ponders that statement for a moment.

They are sitting on the floor in a circle.

Andrew laughs.

They all look at her.

Claire rolls her eyes.

Allison is relishing this attention.

Claire notes her disgust.

Allison is suddenly defensive.

Claire is on the verge of tears.

Claire silences all of them by screaming.

Silence for two beats.

Allison decides to field that question.

Claire laughs.

Andrew laughs briefly.

Allison feels left out.

Claire takes lipstick out and opens it.  She places it

between her breasts and applies it from her cleavage.

When she lifts her head, her lipstick is perfect.

Bender turns to Andrew.  As he speaks, we can see his

words hitting home.

Claire starts crying.

There are a few beats.

Allison is on the verge of tears herself.

There is silence until Brian speaks.

Brian laughs at her.

Brian is shocked.

Brian hides his head in his arm because he is crying.

Brian bashes a chair over.

Andrew starts to laugh.

They all start to laugh, including Brian.

Everyone laughs.

Allison starts to laugh too.

Later.

We see Brian putting a record on and then music starts.

We see them all dancing.  This goes on for the duration

of the song.

We see Bender crawling back through the heating duct.

Andrew, Allison, Claire and Brian are sitting, in that

order on the railing.

Brian glances over at Allison and Andrew who nod in

approval.

Claire looks at Allison who looks back.

We see Claire putting eye make-up on Allison.

Claire closes her eyes.  Allison mimics her.

Claire puts the make-up on her and Allison squeals.

We see Brian thinking about what he's going to write.

We see Andrew just thinking.

We see Allison and Claire again.  Claire is still

putting make-up on Allison.

We see Brian begin to write.

We see Andrew, still deep in thought.

We see Bender, in the closet once again.  Claire opens

the door and enters.

Claire stares at him.

Bender smiles.

Claire smiles.

Brian is busily preparing the essay.

Andrew looks up and sees the newly made over Allison

and is in awe.

Allison walks towards him and stops when she notices

Brian staring at her with his mouth open.

She glares at him.

Claire kisses Bender, then she breaks the kiss.

Bender nods and speaks at the same time.

We see Brian lift up his paper and kiss it.

We see Andrew and Allison.

Allison smiles.

We see Brian laugh and give himself a congratulatory

punch in the arm.

The five are walking down the hall where they are met

by Carl, sweeping up.  Brian nods at him.

Brian gets into his dads car and leaves.

Andrew and Allison kiss, Allison rips a patch off

Andrews jacket and gets into the car.

Andrew's dad arrives and looks at him, then at Allison.

We see Claire take out one of her diamond earrings

and put it into Benders hand.  They kiss and she gets

into her car.  She leaves.

We see Bender put the earring in his ear.

We see Vernon pick up Brian's essay and begin to read.

We see Bender walking towards us as Brian's monologue

continues.

We see Bender walking across the football field

as he thrusts his fist into the air in a silent cheer

and freezes there.

