The children run out of the candy store, all slurping Rocket

Pops.

The brothers at the counter. Bloom watches the children go,

while Stephen counts out pennies.

Stephen slaps the change down angrily and points with a

scowl.

The children play, resplendent with their Rocket Pops.

Bloom and Stephen sit off to the side of the park, none too

happy nursing their Pixie Stix.

Stephen glares, flicks the Stix away like a cigarette.

He storms off.    Bloom lingers, staring silently at the

children.

The brothers amble down a wooded path.     Bloom stops, staring

into the trees.

Through the dense thicket of foliage... the children playing.

And one gleaming eye framed perfectly through a small open

patch in the leaves.

Bloom pushes the leaves aside. A girl. Golden curls.

Summer dress. Standing in the distance on a wide lawn.

Bloom gazes.    Stephen places his hand on Bloom's back.

Bloom stumbles from the trees (very much as if he's been

shoved) and regains his footing and freezes, not shielded at

all now from the playing kids and the girl.

The girl makes eye contact, twisting a daisy chain between

her tiny fingers. Bloom's adam apple convulses.

He turns tail and runs back into the woods.

Brothers in bed. Bloom gazes window-ward. Stephen gazes Bloom-

wise, shuffling a pack of cards.

Stephen spreads out a hand-drawn flowchart on a stump, and

talks Bloom through it.

Stephen runs his finger backwards down the connected boxes,

each neatly numbered, stopping at #1.... "Bloom Talks To

Girl"

Children and the gold haired Girl playing.      The wall of

foliage where the forest begins shimmers.

Bloom bursts through the trees and strides across the wide

lawn, confident, glowing, stopping face to golden face with

the girl.

They talk.    They run.   They laugh.   They play.

BOX #2 on the flowchart - "Bloom wins the kids' trust"

Bloom does indeed, sitting and laughing with a circle of

kids, suddenly a natural born charmer.

The Golden Girl smiles at him.

From the shadows of an adjacent alley, Stephen watches,

pleased. He slinks away.

SERIES OF SHOTS-

BOX #3 - "Stephen finds a cave" dissolves to Stephen scouting

out a cave deep in the woods.

In the park, Bloom runs with the kids, laughing.

BOX #5 - "Stephen buys supplies" dissolves to: Stephen in a

hardware store, pointing. A flashlight, snow boots and

several large coolers are purchased.

Back in the park, Bloom says goodnight to the kids and walks

homeward in the warm twilight.

BOX #8 - "Stephen scouts church" dissolves to: Stephen's

eyes poke up from behind a pew in a church. He manages to

look devious as he snags a SUNDAY SCHOOL SCHEDULE.

Bloom enters, hears running water from the bathroom. He

glimpses down at the flowchart on the bed, scanning down to:

Box #10 - "Bloom comes home to find Stephen filling the

coolers"

Stephen backs out of the bathroom trolling a heavy cooler.

Bloom's lip quivers, obviously conflicted.

Bloom holds court with the kids.

Back to Bloom and Stephen in the attic

Something in Bloom's face falls.

The girl's bright, trusting face looking at him. A moment of

silence. Then, triumphant, an excited boy leaps to his feet.

The kids all rejoice, and fist-fulls of dollars are thrust at

Bloom. He looks almost crestfallen as his eye catches the

girl's joyful gaze.

Children in their bright Sunday clothes run through the dark

woods, led by Bloom.

In the dim light of a cave, Stephen overturns the coolers of

water and retreats into shadow. A flood soaks into the dirt

floor, as outside the mouth of the cave the group of panting

children come into sight.

The children look at the craggy mouth of a forboding cave.

Deep in the cave's dark maw, a spark of light.

The children gasp collectively.    The Girl grabs Bloom's arm.

Bloom stares, transfixed as any of them.

The spark becomes a glowing, fluttering point of light, which

hangs in the mouth of the cave for a tantalizing moment, then

recedes deeper into the gloom.

With a cry the children, Bloom included, dash into the cave.

The light glows just around the next corner... the children

run after it, slipping in the mud, laughing, turning the

corner...

And the light glows just around the next corner. They

scramble, they slip and slide, they can't catch the light,

but they're all having the time of their lives.

Bloom included.    Holding the girl's hand, laughing, eyes full

of wonder.

He puts on a burst of speed, gets ahead of the crowd.

Turning a corner, he (alone) sees the rather tawdry image of

Stephen, flashlight in hand, shooing him back as he turns the

next corner.

Bloom stops running.

The other kids and the girl pass him, but Bloom stands dead

still, a strange expression on his face.

The girl turns back towards him, still running, and holds out

her hand for him to follow.

But he doesn't.    He stays behind, and is soon left alone.

The muddied children walk home, laughing, while Bloom leans

against a lamppost. Stephen appears behind him, counting

their money.

A front door opens, revealing a porch-full of 30 angry

parents holding 15 muddied kids by their ears.

The Foster Parents exchange a glance.

QUICK SHOTS -

Stephen is smacked.

The wad of money is snatched from a grubby small hand by an

angry big one.

A telephone slams down.

On a form, the field "Reason for return:" is filled with

"Larceny."

Two suitcases on a bed are snapped closed and pulled away.

The bed sits solid and vacant in the dusty afternoon

sunlight.

Beneath the bed, forgotten, a piece of paper.    On it, the con

flow-chart. Numbered boxes.

One of the boxes... number six...

BOX #6:   "Cut % O'Henry's"

Through a storefront window - rows of the children's muddy

Sunday clothes hang, each tagged.

And striding out of the store beneath the `O'Henry's

Cleaners' sign is Stephen, fifty dollars in hand, sucking a

Rocket Pop. The OWNER leans out of the door, looking a

little nervous. Stephen throws him back a salute.

Bloom sits against a wall, suitcases beside him. Boxes of

Rocket Pops, and one in each fist. Stephen plops down beside

him.

Bloom's eye catches the children, and the girl, playing in

the distance.

HONK! A `Child Welfare' car waiting out on the street.    The

brothers pick themselves up.

Stephen tosses his Rocket Pop.

The con man team of the brothers Bloom, suitcases in hand,

strides down the alleyway.

Stephen in front.

Bloom a few steps behind, stealing one last glance back at

the children playing in the sun.

Flames spread over a wall of bookshelves.

TITLE CARD:    BERLIN, 25 YEARS LATER

A YOUNG MAN in a nice suit and bowler hat steps in front of

the flaming books.

Three gunshots, two bloody holes in the nice suit and the

young man folds to the ground.

A sweaty man named CHARLESTON (40s) lowers his gun, while

behind him the rest of the library roars in flames.

The owner of the voice, a MAN a bit younger than Charleston

in a derby cap, snatches the gun away and slaps Charleston

hard.

Charleston gets to his feet.

Charleston limps to the flaming doorway.

He exits, leaving McGuire stooped beside the crumpled form of

Victor. A long beat. The distant roar of an engine, tires

squealing.

Then through the smoky doorway steps a beautiful ASIAN WOMAN,

early 20s. She gives a nearly imperceptible nod.

He pats Victor, who sits up, spitting blood. McGuire looks

to Victor and the woman for a reaction. Gets none.

The Asian woman nods slightly.

For McGuire is, of course, Stephen.

Just as Victor is, indeed, Bloom.   He spits.

Stephen escorts the Asian woman out, while Bloom wipes his

lip.

A stately house in the middle of nowhere, on fire. Stephen

holds the door of a car open, while Bloom steps from the

flaming house.

Hazy light over the sprawling city.

A low, cozy basement level bar. A dozen people crowd it, all

expectant in a surprise-party type way.

A TURKISH GENTLEMAN in a white linen suit and eye patch

raises his drink when Bloom, Stephen and the woman enter.

The bar bursts into cheers.

A DWARF dances on the bar. Stephen plays cards with the

Turk, an ALBINO and a small crowd of character types.

They clink glasses.

Stephen riffle shuffles a pack of cards.

Stephen cuts the deck randomly - 2 of spades.

Stephen shrugs.

Wink. The dwarf slips, plummets from the bar. Stephen kicks

a chair across the room, into which he lands with a crunch.

Back at the bar - the Asian woman.       The CHINK.   Being hit on

by a weasly ROMANIAN.

She almost imperceptibly rolls her eyes.

She taps on the bar.

She says `no' with a look.

Stephen makes a gun with his finger and shoots at the Chink.

She flicks a champaign flute to make a `DING!' and mimes the

bullet bouncing off her.

In the corner of the bar, in a private booth with drawn

velvet curtains, Bloom sits alone playing solitaire. Stuck

with a queen of hearts he can't play.

A beautiful woman in scarlet with auburn hair pokes her face

through the curtains.

She pushes the cards aside and slides clumsily onto the

table, her face inches from Bloom's, eyes closed, expecting a

kiss.

Bloom's eyes stay open.

A replay of Bloom in front of the flaming bookshelf.

The room transforms, becomes daylit, not on fire, seven years

ago, a WIFE standing in Bloom's place.

Sure enough, the colors and shape of Bloom's suit matches the

Wife's outfit.

Everything snaps back to Bloom in the flaming room.

BANG.

He leaves Rose lying on the table and sweeps through the bar

towards the exit, passing Stephen.

Bloom stumbles up stone steps to street level.      A THOUSAND

YEAR OLD MAN sweeps up across the square.

Bloom sits wearily on the curb, bowler hat in hand, shirt

bright red with fake blood, face long as hell.

Putting the broom aside a moment, the old man walks painfully

across the street to Bloom. Standing nearly toe to toe with

him, the man pulls a huge joyful smile across his grizzled

face.

He then smears his hand over his mug, pulling the smile off

his face and rubbing it on Bloom's mouth. When he takes his

hand away, Bloom plays along and has the same big joyful

smile. The old man winks at him and walks back to his broom.

As soon as the old man is away, Bloom drops the smile.

Stephen paces out into the street.

They walk across the street to the Tiergarten.

Berlin's Central Park and zoo, dead and brown. The brothers

stroll through the woods, Stephen a few steps ahead, Bloom

trailing behind, lost in thought.

Camel heads poke over a wall with `Kamelhaus' painted on it.

Stephen throws open the wall's gate.

The camels are unimpressed.       Bloom slouches into a bench.

Stephen shows the deck of cards to Bloom, who nods. Stephen

cuts the deck, shows him a card. Bloom shakes his head, no.

Bloom stares into space.

Stephen pulls a flask, unscrews it.

Bloom bats the flask away. A camel catches it, tips its

camel neck back and gulps it down.

Stephen listens.

The camel belches.    Bloom makes a show of putting on his

jacket.

Bloom tosses Stephen the bowler, and storms off.    He gets

about ten feet, then hesitates.

Then goes.

The camel nudges Stephen's jacket, looking for more scotch.

Stephen puts the bowler on its camel head.

Stephen watches his brother walk off into the rising morning

mist, lost in thought.

His hands mechanically begin shuffling the pack of cards.

FADE OUT

FADE IN:

Beautiful green hills surround the walled medieval city of

Ferentino.

TITLE CARD:    Ferentino, Italy - 3 months later.

A tiny red car inches its way across the countryside. It

winds its way up and deeper into the city on the hill.

The tiny stone porch outside a private apartment.   The red

car's bumper pulls up, parks.

On a small wood table, empty booze bottles and a loose pack

of cards. Fingertips spread the cards, then the fingertips'

owner heads for the apartment door.

Stephen steps in cautiously, surveys the apartment.

A goddamn mess. Empty bottles and glasses, very little

light. Stephen opens the curtains, light streams in the

window. A groan of displeasure comes from the gloom.

Bloom stirs, passed out in a hammock. Unkept beard, a few

extra pounds. Crushed cigar hanging on his lip.

A rotund GRANDMOTHER waddles in, cleaning up bottles and

berating Bloom in a constant stream of angry Italian.

Stephen guides a dressed Bloom out the door. The grandmother

follows them, still barking angry Italian at Bloom. At the

last moment she says a few kind words, kisses him on the

cheek and sends them off.

A few tables on a stone walkway overlooking the countryside.

The red car parked nearby. Stephen eats, Bloom stares.

Stephen's eyes:       "Are you joking?"

Stephen stands, strolls off.        Bloom wearily follows.

A long private road through a tunnel of trees leads to a

ludicrous mansion. Our trio watch it from the road.

Stephen flips open a first edition Jane Eyre. The

illustration inside is in fact an exact match, right down to

a plaster deer in the front yard.

The Chink writes a number in the snow with a stick. Just

when we think she's done, she adds several more zeros.

Stephen pulls Bloom into the trees as a cherry red

Lamborghini roars down the private road, does an unruly donut

and crunches painfully into a tree, kicking up a cloud of

dust and smoke.

Thumping bass from the audio system turns off, and from the

dust cloud emerges PENELOPE, early 30s, beautiful but in a

non-Lamborghini way.

Bloom watches her through the trees, none too happy.

Off to the side of the house. They lean on the hood of their

rental car, an old school Cadillac.

In the background, a tow truck arrives with a brand new

Lamborghini, and leaves towing the old one.

Stephen nods to the Chink.       Bloom nods appreciatively.

The front door of the mansion slams, and they watch Penelope

drag a harp around into the back yard.

Bloom's eyes never leave Penelope.

The Chink silently hands Bloom a retractable spyglass, he

watches Penelope drift atop a hill and sit on a stump.

Bloom watches her play Clash songs on the harp.

Stephen spreads a folded piece of paper on a tree stump, with

a flowchart on it. Numbered boxes.

Bloom doesn't take his spyglass off Penelope.

Penelope plays on.

Very late. Bloom and Stephen in armchairs, collars loosened,

drinks drunk. The Chink's Chuck Taylors stick up over the

back of a chair.

Bloom holds the con flowchart.

Bloom idly looks over the chart.

Stephen answers by letting an ace fall from his sleeve.

The Chink's inert sneakers come to life and she's on her

feet, silently going to Stephen's side.

Bloom stares at #1 on the flowchart - "BLOOM MEETS PENELOPE."

A grumpy Bloom perched on the red Schwinn, an ill fitting

Styrofoam helmet on his head.

Stephen sits in a lawn chair watching the highway below.

The Chink sets up a lawn umbrella, a chair for herself, and a

cooler with Coronas.

He directs this to the Chink, who blinks with innocent

incomprehension and opens two Coronas.

Stephen spots something and blows a whistle.       With a grunt,

Bloom launches the Schwinn forward.

Gaining speed, bumping over weeds and gopher holes, down the

steep steep hill.

At the bottom of the hill, a two lane highway.      Cruising down

the highway, a cherry red Lamborghini.

Whose front right fender Bloom expertly smashes into.

Silent and blue. Time slows to a crawl as Bloom sails

through the air, arcing over the Italian luxury car's hood

and past a horrified Penelope, face frozen mid scream behind

the wheel.

Several things happen at once.

Bloom hits the pavement shoulder-first, hard.      The bent bike

follows suit.

Up on the hill, Stephen and the Chink raise score cards.         8.9

and 5.6.

The Lamborghini screeches to a stop.

Everything is still.

Then the car jolts forward. Then stops. Then again, jolts

and stops. Rolls forward a few feet, lazily drifting, then

jolts and stops.

Bloom painfully stands, as confused by the car's behavior as

us.

Stephen and the Chink lower their cards, equally confused.

One last long beat of silence, then the car jolts forward,

veers drunkenly to the left, tips into a ditch and chunks to

a stop. The horn blares.

Bloom looks up to the hilltop for guidance.

Stephen stares blankly.    The Chink raises a new score card -

7.8.

Penelope sleeps, bruised and battered. Bloom sits bedside

uncomfortably, arm in a wimpy sling. She stirs. Bloom leans

forward.

Slurred with sleep and drugs, she painfully barely breathes

Bloom consults with Stephen and the Chink, both in scrubs.

The Chink lights a cigarette.

Bloom stares blankly.        The Chink burps into her stethoscope.

Bloom slumps in a chair, watching Penelope sleep.

Bloom drifts off, then wakes with a start.

It is MORNING.     Penelope is shaking him.

She walks away, the back of her gown wide open, then turns.

Bloom drives, Penelope gazes stiffly out the window.

Silence. He notices her playing with the side mirror knob,

angling it to stare at him while looking out the window.

More silence.

And still more silence.

They pull up in the car.          A tow truck is dropping off a new

Lamborghini.

Bloom looks about to launch into something, when Penelope

drops a stack of cash bound in a green rubber band on his

dashboard.

The car door slams and she's gone.         Bloom sits a moment.

Bloom starts driving off, and adjusts the passenger side

mirror so it points back to the road. As he does he sees

Penelope in it, sprinting after his car.

He stops.    A moment later she appears at his window, heaving.

Bloom and Penelope sit in a luxurious stone-based kitchen,

neither touching their coffee. Bloom talks.

This is how Penelope listens: she starts with her eyes on

Bloom, then very quickly drifts away into her own thoughts,

then recognizes she's doing it and makes eye contact again

and gives an overbaked "oh yes go on" smile/nod, then does it

all again. Three or four times.

She storms out.

Victorian, expensive. Penelope leans against the window,

looking out. Sulking. Bloom enters.

Very slowly, he sips it.     Each sip becomes a noisier and

noisier slurp.

HOBBY MONTAGE

In which Penelope demonstrates the following with exacting

seriousness and skill for Bloom:

Playing the piano.      The classical guitar.   The fiddle.   The

banjo.

Putting the finishing touches on a ship in a bottle.

Executing a perfect ollie on a skateboard.

Juggling various items.       Riding a unicycle.   Juggling while

riding a unicycle.

Playing ping-pong against a wall with ungodly speed.

Karate chopping through too much wood.

Breakdancing.

Playing the accordion.

Rapping to a drum machine.

Creating a perfect origami dragon.

END HOBBY MONTAGE

On Bloom's shell-shock face.

Bloom and Penelope walk and talk, finally rounding the house

and ending up at the driveway.

During this, Bloom very naturally moves his hand to the small

of Penelope's back. The edge of his thumb comes to rest on a

small slit of exposed skin.

Penelope's expression does not change, but a noticeable blush

crosses her still face.

When Bloom removes his hand, the blush falls.

He drives off.    She stands in the doorway, watching him go.

A jaunty steamer ship docked and ready. Bloom watches the

access road, Stephen makes notes, the Chink whittles.

Bloom turns from the road.

A screech of distant tires and a crash.        Bloom doesn't look.

Penelope pulls a clumsy steamer trunk that never could have

fit in her Lamborghini, which is bent around a pylon.

Bloom meets her.

She holds out the stack of bills in the green rubber band.

He doesn't take it.

The good ship Fidele breaks the waves Greece-ward.

Bloom and Penelope stroll the deck.

Up ahead, Bloom spots a large man in a fur collared cape

gazing out to sea. He quickly turns Penelope away.

The Chink and Stephen play shuffleboard.     Bloom leads

Penelope to them.

A nearly imperceptible glare from the Chink.

The Chink hits a damn near impossible shuffleboard shot, then

gives Stephen a pointed deferential giggle-bow.

The brothers dress for dinner.

An ominous glance.

Several small tables scattered about the moonlit deck, Bloom

and Penelope sit with flutes of champagne. Penelope, in an

elegant but understated dress, shuffles a pack of cards.

She laughs as if at a joke she doesn't think is funny.

Penelope's hands move faster.     She knows how to shuffle

cards.

As Penelope tells her story she gets fancier with her

shuffles.

She pulls the Queens out of the deck and lays them face up on

the table.

Penelope does an amazing card trick using the four queens.

She finishes the trick.

A single pair of hands clapping turns their heads. At the

far end of the deck, alone at a table, the large man in the

fur collared cape, who for reasons unlikely to become clear

at the moment will be called THE CURATOR.

Bloom takes Penelope gently by the elbow and guides her up

and away.

They stroll out onto the moonlit bow of the ship.

A waltz drifts through the air from a band unseen.

He leaves her alone. Clouds obscure the moon, shadows

deepen. She shivers.

A match strikes.   She jumps.

The moon re-emerges, and she is no longer alone on the deck.

The Curator lights a dapper briar pipe, shakes out the match.

The band strikes up a Bolero. The Curator flicks his wrist,

and a long thin blade falls into his hand.

He raises the blade... it is in fact a fine mustache brush,

which he delicately employs.

With that the Curator backs into the shadows, and is gone.

Moments later Bloom trots up to her, oblivious.

He hands her a single blood red rose. She puts it in her

teeth, and they dance. If there is a tinge of tension in the

air, the Bolero suits it.

The moon ducks behind a cloud once more, and they dance on in

the dark.

Bloom wakes with a start. Morning light pours in through his

porthole. He opens it, looks out to sea.

His dinner jacket draped over a chair. The rose in its

lapel. He fishes it out. Runs his fingers over the teeth

marks on the stem.

Then raises an eyebrow at a lump in the breast pocket, and

pulls out the stack of bills in the green rubber band.

The Chink and Penelope lie on their stomachs on the deck, a

beer can pinhole camera between them.

Penelope gives a lesson on how it works.

The Chink appreciates her.

Bloom escorts Penelope to breakfast.

Bloom cooks breakfast in his bathrobe.

A door opens and slams. Bloom turns. The Chink sits at his

place at the table, suitcase beside her, smoking a cigarette.

Like feeding a strange animal, Bloom pours her coffee.   She

drinks it without looking at him.

They smile when they see Stephen and the Chink at a table.

Their smiles drop when they see the Curator sitting with

them. Bloom glares at the Curator, but speaks to Stephen.

Penelope snaps her fingers.     Everyone looks up.

Everyone glances at Stephen, a little uncomfortable.

Bloom paces, Stephen shuffles cards.

Stephen stands to go, then pauses.

The Chink sits smoking her whittled pipe, watching Bloom

alone on the deck. Stephen passes her, and she stops him

with a look.

She hands him a thin piece of paper.       He looks it over.

The paper is a telegram with the Fidele's imprint, received

from St. Petersburg. Stephen reads it.

He crumples the paper, looks down at Bloom.

The good ship Fidele rounds the Rock of Gibraltar.

Bloom and Penelope lie on the deck, watching dolphins.

She says this word like she's eating chocolate:

Stephen is set upon by two thugs.    He rushes them.

He looks at her in the sun.

Kalamata, if it matters.

The Fidele docked in bright blue water. Our intrepid heroes

stand aside a dusty road, surrounded by their luggage.

The Curator approaches, tips his hat to them.

With a wink, he is gone.     A beat.   Penelope stands apart.

Penelope taking air on the moonlit deck.     The Curator

dissolves out of the darkness.

He brings her face close to hers, smoke twisting, and speaks

unheard words low and fast.

We fly through the city streets...

Up to the base of the castle, through a grated hole in an

ancient wall, into...

A stunning illuminated manuscript lies open on a stone table.

The Curator's hands close it gently and take it away.

Behind Penelope, two porters load her steamer trunk into the

back of a taxi.

Bloom breathes.

She walks off towards the taxi.

A train roars through the night towards Prague.

Stephen reclines, hat on his face.    Bloom paces.

Bloom fishes a crumpled piece of paper from his pocket and

thrusts it in front of Stephen's face.

On it are written dozens of variations in stylized fonts of

"Penelope the smuggler."

Exit Bloom.    Stephen sighs and drops his hat back on his

face.

Bloom reads. Footsteps pound by outside. Penelope and the

Chink run past his door. A moment later a uniformed

ATTENDANT runs past.

A beat, then the footsteps come back, and the girls duck into

Bloom's cabin, slamming the door. Sacks in their teeth.

Off Bloom's quizzical look:

They pull bags of chips and tiny liquor bottles from their

sacks.

Bloom glares at the Chink, who tries to avoid his gaze.

Bloom pays the SNACK CAR ATTENDANT from a stack of Euros,

while the Chink gives him counts on her fingers.

She holds up two fingers, the Attendant pours two.

She says no with a look, they drink.

The Chink nods.      Bloom pays for the Jameson.

The lights are off. Penelope reclines on the bed, surrounded

by empty tiny gin bottles. Drunk.

Bloom sits on the floor, both framed in a big window looking

out on a breathtaking moonlit landscape rolling hypnotically

by.

Oops.

Bloom quietly slips the stack of cash in the green rubber

band into Penelope's luggage.

Bloom makes several attempts to form a response to this

before giving up.

A roll of thunder and spectacular flash of lightning ignites

the landscape, and rain starts to patter. Penelope stiffens.

