Louis takes a drink of his coffee.

TITLECARD: CHRIST COMPLEX

INT. CAFE-DAY-MOMENTS LATER

We pan across the cafe to the table of ZOEY and RICK, a

young college aged couple. Zoey is obviously trying to

have a serious conversation, while Rick hides behind his

laptop using it as a shield.

Rick doesn't look up from his laptop screen.

Zoey feels like she has broken down the "wall".

Rick spins the computer around.

Rick reaches over and points at the laptop screen.

Zoey, still confused, slowly turns the laptop back toward

Rick.

Zoey is bewildered.

EXT. PARK-AFTERNOON

Louis kicks at the ground, almost as if he was searching

for something. His foot finally rests on a broken tree

limb.

He places his foot under it and kicks it up to his right

hand.

He throws it over to Quinn, who catches it in one swift

move.

Louis searches around for a stick of his own.

Louis finds what he is looking for as he spins his limb

into attack position.

PARK-RIVERSIDE-CONTINUOUS

Zoey sits on a bench beside her best friend ANNA. Zoey is

completely distant, as Anna's words pass through her into

thin air.

ANIMATED SEQUENCE

FLASHBACK

ZOEY 10 YEARS OLD

A young BOY is sitting on another little boy's head. It

looks like he is passing gas on him.

The boy is now doing the same to Zoey.

ZOEY 13 YEARS OLD

ZACK, a young teenager is selling drugs on the street

corner. His bags of coke should be exaggerated, as well

as the customers coming up to buy from him. Think if

South Park was crossed with HBO's The Wire.

Zoey takes Zack into a room labeled "Rehab" on the door.

Zack is out with Zoey when a few of his old GANG FRIENDS

show up looking to collect. Zack opens his pockets to

show he doesn't have any dough on him.

Zack slowly pushes Zoey toward them.

A few days later we see Zoey being used as a human coffee

table as the gang uses her back to cut cocaine.

ZOEY 17 YEARS OLD.

A gang member looks directly into the camera. He smiles

showing his golden grille.

It's prom night and Toothpick is in his "pimp" tux. He

takes a swig of his "40" while he dances with Zoey.

Toothpick and Zoey are in an hotel room. Toothpick is

standing over Zoey, who is facedown on the bed. It

appears he is urinating on her. It's hard to tell with

the black censor bar.

END SEQUENCE

PARK-RIVERSIDE-PRESENT DAY

Zoey is staring off into space.

Zoey points at Quinn and Louis, who are fighting with

tree limbs in the distance.

Anna senses something in Zoey that she is trying to hide.

TITLE CARD: 2 HOURS AGO

PARK-RIVERSIDE-EARLIER

Zoey is overcome with emotion as she makes her way down

to the riverside. She is holding something tight in her

hand.

CLOSE UP-HAND

As her hand opens a class ring was digging into her palm.

It appears this might have belonged to Rick.

PARK-RIVERSIDE

Still teary eyed, Zoey angrily throws the ring toward the

river. A gust of wind causes the ring to curve and it

slams into the temple of a man sitting on a park bench.

Zoey walks over to apologize and meets Quinn for the

first time.

Quinn rubs his temple and then reaches down to pick up

the ring.

She takes the ring and shoves it into her pocket.

Quinn scoots over and motions for her to sit.

Zoey sits, still apprehensive.

Everything.

An entrepreneur...That's awesome.

(beat)

Well...So do you like coming down here?

To the river?

(smiles)

Yes where we are right now.

I just needed to think.

Yeah me too. I just suffered a break up.

My apologies.

No it's OK. I mean I'm over it.

(laughs)

My head disagrees.

I'm sorry.

It's really OK.

So what did you need to think about? I

mean if I'm not prying of course.

No, I just have some problems.

(beat)

I'm not sure about my calling in life.

I'm not sure anyone is. You know if you

need a friend, I'd be glad to...well you

know...listen.

I'd appreciate that. I don't have many

friends.

TITLE CARD: 7PM

INT. ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-7PM

JACK, A 20 year old gay man who loves him a good "Cosby

Sweater", is sitting at the computer desk "surfing" on

the desktop.

Anna walks up from behind and runs her fingers through

Jack's hair.

We follow Anna across the room where she plops herself

down on the couch.

A KNOCK is heard at the front door.

Jack gets up from the desk.

Anna adjusts herself back down into the comfy couch.

Jack opens the door to reveal Quinn.

He rudely motions him to come in and sit down.

In almost the same beat, Zoey walks into the room.

Zoey reaches out her hand to help Quinn off the couch.

Anna grabs the remote trying to ignore the situation.

Zoey and Quinn leave the apartment as Jack stares

daggers.

EXT. APARTMENT-CONTINUOUS

Zoey shuts the door and then turns to stop Quinn.

INT. RESTAURANT-MOMENTS LATER

Zoey and Quinn are enjoying their meal at this fancy

upscale establishment. Quinn picks up his menu, running

his finger down though the menu items.

Quinn puts down the menu.

Oh my God you are in the ministry.

(smiles)

Kind of.

My father was a "fire and damnation"

preacher. Baptist...He's...

He's?

It's nothing.

(beat)

Sorry I don't mean to rock your world.

(smiles)

You didn't.

You poor thing. You are probably so

desperate for friends-

(laughs)

What?

Have you thought about St John's Wort?

You are a very cryptic speaker.

No I'm thinking out loud mostly. I was

just...well...you have some social

awkwardness.

OK?

Well you are latching on to religion to

make you feel whole. It doesn't make you

feel whole, or at least as whole as you

thought it would-

You are kind of right on that one.

INT.   ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-LATER

Jack is passed out drooling on the couch. Anna and Zoey

are cross legged on the floor in the midst of "girl

talk".

TITLE CARD: 4 DAYS LEFT

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-DAY

Quinn is sleeping in his bed. His room is rather bare,

with the exception of the basic living necessities. It

almost appears like a room at the "Y".

CLOSE UP-EDGE OF BED

A foot is seen kicking the bed, startling Quinn.

QUINN'S ROOM

Quinn flies out of bed and sees Louis leaning against the

wall with his arms crossed.

EXT. OPEN FIELD-DAY

Louis and Quinn walk out into a huge open field. Louis is

carrying a black tote bag that he drops on the ground.

Quinn points at the bag

Louis goes to the tote bag and starts to unzip it.

He reaches into the bag and pulls out two "nurf" style

swords out.

Louis throws one of the "swords" to Quinn.

Louis comes over carrying his sword.

Louis comes at Quinn and his instinct kicks in. The two

begin their mock battle.

TREE

From behind a tree we see RYAN BLOOD for the first time.

He hides in the shadows taking pictures with his digital

camera.

Quinn and Louis continue to practice unaware of the

unwanted attention.

INT. CAFE-DAY

Louis sips his coffee, while Quinn just stares out the

front window. It almost as if he is searching for

something.

INT. ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-EVENING

Quinn is sitting on the couch as Jack and Anna make their

way for the door.

Zoey comes out of the kitchen with a bowl of popcorn.

Anna hits Jack.

Zoey sits down and hands the bowl to Quinn.

Anna walks over to the couch.

Jack grabs Anna by the arm and leads her to the door.

Anna and Jack mumble as they head out the door.

EXT. APARTMENT-CONTINUOUS

Jack puts his arm around Anna, as to stop her for a

second.

INT.ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-CONTINUOUS

Zoey is curled up next to Quinn on the couch. A popcorn

bowl is squeezed in between them. She reaches over and

picks up the remote.

Zoey shakes her head.

Zoey slowly looks over at Quinn.

Quinn shrugs

Quinn puts his hand on her shoulder.

Quinn motions to the TV.

Zoey hits play on the remote.

TITLE CARD: 3 DAYS LEFT

EXT. OPEN FIELD-DAY

Quinn is sitting cross legged in the middle of the field.

He seems as though he is in the middle of a trance.

Louis walks up and throws a toy sword on Quinn's lap.

Quinn stands up and grabs the sword.

The two start to sword fight, but Quinn does not have his

heart in it.

Quinn stops for a second and drops his sword down to his

side. Louis pokes Quinn in the chest with the tip of his

sword.

Quinn sits down.

Louis follows his lead.

Louis gets up and reaches out to help Quinn

Quinn takes Louis' hand and gets to his feet.

Louis brings his sword back up into attack position.

Quinn is back to his "swashbuckling" self. The two battle

it out on the field, matching each other blow for blow.

INT. RYAN BLOOD'S APARTMENT-LATER

We creep upon Ryan Blood as he works at his computer. On

closer inspection, it appears he is editing video of

Quinn and Louis' mock fight earlier in the day.

INT. LOUIS APARTMENT-CONTINUOUS

Louis' set up is more lavish than Quinn's. It's obvious

he indulges just a little too much.

Louis comes out of the bathroom with a towel around his

waist. He starts singing "Motown" songs to himself.

He walks back off screen to the bedroom. We still hear

him singing, as we pan around the apartment.

We swing back around to the entrance of Louis' bedroom.

He finally comes out fully dressed. He uses the towel he

was wearing to finish drying his hair.

He walks up to a mirror and starts looking at himself.

LOUIS' POV

He starts to run his hands through his hair. He tries to

straighten up the mess on his head. He picks up some gel

and squirts a small amount in his hand.

He runs it through his hair, getting the desired look.

LOUIS APARTMENT

Louis spins around and grabs his keys off of the coffee

table. He then dances right out the door.

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Louis walks into Quinn's room and finds him not there.

Louis walks out into...

HALLWAY

...the hallway. Ryan Blood is standing in the doorway of

his room, across the hall.

Takes Louis' a second to register Ryan's question.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING

Louis runs outside. He looks up and down the street. In

the distance he finally spots them, Quinn and Zoey

holding hands.

EXT. CAFE-MOMENTS LATER

Louis stands across the street, staring right into the

window of the cafe. He clearly sees Quinn and Zoey on a

date.

His eyes widen as their hands touch.

EXT. ZOEY'S APARTMENT BUILDING-LATER

Zoey and Quinn walk holding hands through the apartment

building parking lot. Zoey stops for a second and turns

to face Quinn.

Suddenly, guided by instinct, Zoey kisses Quinn on the

lips. Quinn is completely thrown.

Quinn slowly turns around and walks away. Zoey looks at

him like she is unsure if she will see him again.

DUMPSTER

Meanwhile, leaning against the dumpster, Louis watches

the display unseen.

INT. RYAN BLOOD'S APARTMENT-LATER

Ryan is working at his PC when a KNOCK is heard. He gets

up from his messy desk and makes his way over to the

door.

As he swings it open we see Louis on the other side.

RYAN BLOOD'S APARTMENT- A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Ryan leans back in his desk chair. Louis has cleared off

a spot on a messy couch.

The apartment, simply put, is a "shithole"

Ryan picks up a stack of documents and throws the papers

one at a time at Louis.

Louis brushes the pile of papers of his lap.

Ryan picks a book up and throws it at Louis. Louis looks

down at the "Book Of Mormon".

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-MOMENTS LATER

Quinn opens the door to his room and spies a silhouette

in the far corner.

The silhouette comes out of the darkness and into view.

It should come to no surprise that Louis is emerging from

the darkness.

Louis sits down on the edge of the bed.

Quinn sits down beside him.

Quinn gets up and walks to the door.

Quinn slowly opens the door and walks out. The door

creeps shut behind him.

Louis smiles to himself, feeling satisfaction. His face

looks evil, almost demonic.

EXT. ZOEY'S APARTMENT BUILDING- SOMETIME LATER

In almost a "romantic movie" way, Quinn runs toward

Zoey's apartment. When he reaches the door he knocks like

his life depends on it.

Anna swings the door open, she's obviously surprised to

see Quinn.

You can hear Jack inside the apartment.

You hear Zoey off screen.

Zoey comes to the doorway and stands behind Anna.

Quinn grabs her by the arm and pulls her outside, pushing

her right past Anna.

Anna slams the door shut, leaving Zoey and Quinn outside.

Zoey is stunned, silent.

Zoey touches his face.

Zoey puts her finger up to his lips to quiet him.

Zoey reaches down and takes a confused Quinn's hand. She

leads him to the door. Like a sheep herder, she takes

Quinn inside of the apartment.

The last image we see is the apartment door slamming

behind them.

DARKNESS

FLASHBACK-ZOEY'S HOME-YEARS EARLIER-DAY

Zoey, roughly 2 years old, sits in the floor of her

parent's home playing.

Her DAD, only seen from the waist down, walks in front of

Zoey with his bible in hand. He makes it to Zoey's MOM,

on the other side of the room

FLASHBACK-ZOEY'S HOME-TEN YEARS LATER-DAY

Zoey, now 12, is going through some boxes in the closet.

Her head bumps a shelf and a box falls on her.

When she goes to pick up the box she finds a ton of VHS

tapes.

She goes through the box looking at the labels: "Anna age

7" "Anna age 10" "Anna age 12".

FLASHBACK-ZOEY'S ROOM-A FEW MOMENTS LATER

The glow of Zoey's TV fills her face. We can neither see

nor hear what she is watching.

Zoey looks like she is about to throw up.

INT. ZOEY'S BEDROOM-PRESENT DAY-MORNING

Zoey jumps out of bed, like she is waking from a

nightmare. A startled Quinn, who was sleeping beside her,

starts to arouse.

TITLE CARD: 2 DAYS LEFT

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-MOMENTS LATER

Louis walks into Quinn's room with his black tote bag

from earlier. It's obvious he was meeting Quinn to go

train.

He looks through out the room, but quickly realizes Quinn

is probably with Zoey. He slumps down on Quinn's bed.

Anger and hurt is portrayed upon his face.

INT.CAFE-LATER

Quinn and Zoey are having coffee. It's obvious Zoey had a

rough night. She takes a sip of coffee, her mind is

distant.

Quinn touches her hand.

Zoey takes a deep breath.

Quinn looks at Zoey. He loves her, but a part of him

pities her too.

EXT. PARK-RIVERSIDE-LATER

Zoey is curled up under Quinn's arm as they sit on the

same bench from earlier. Quinn stares out toward the

river. It's obvious he is pondering over his choices.

Zoey sits up.

Quinn leans his head back. He catches something out of

the corner of his eye.

QUINN'S POV

Quinn sees Ryan Blood hiding behind a tree. He is taking

video of Quinn and Zoey with a "smart phone".

PARK-RIVERSIDE

Quinn jolts up. Zoey is alarmed.

Quinn doesn't answer. He gets up and runs to the...

TREE

Quinn looks behind the tree, but Ryan is long gone. Zoey

comes up from behind, she places her hand on Quinn's

shoulder.

INT. RYAN BLOOD'S APARTMENT-LATER

Louis is watching the video on the smart phone. He's seen

enough, he throws it back to Ryan.

Louis tosses trash off the couch so he can sit down.

Ryan plops down in his computer desk chair.

Ryan reaches into his desk drawer.

Ryan throws something at Louis.

LOUIS POV

Louis catches the item. He looks down to see a nine

millimeter.

INT. ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-LATER

Zoey is pacing back and forth. Jack rubs his face in

frustration. He is tired of watching Zoey tear herself up

over this guy.

Anna tries to step into Zoey's path attempting to get her

attention

Zoey is jittery, she can't handle Anna blocking her way.

Zoey slaps Anna across the face.

Jack is sick and tired of this display.

Jack gets up.

EXT. LOUIS APARTMENT-CONTINUOUS

Quinn runs toward Louis' apartment. His KNOCKS sound like

a jackhammer on the door.

Louis answers.

Louis moves slightly and we see Ryan Blood in the

background.

Louis slowly closes the door in a stunned Quinn's face.

INT. LOUIS APARTMENT

Louis turns toward Ryan.

INT. ZOEY'S APARTMENT BUILDING-CONTINUOUS

Jack walks into the room holding a file folder. Zoey is

sitting on the couch trying to get a grip.

Jack throws the file in her lap.

Suddenly Zoey's cell phon rings.

She sets the folder aside and answers.

INTERCUT

EXT. STREET CORNER

Quinn is on a pay phone, he's shaking. At this point he

is lost on what his next move should be.

Quinn hangs up the phone.

ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT

Zoey slowly drops her cell phone to the floor. Jack picks

up the folder Zoey set aside.

Jack hands her the folder.

Zoey takes the folder from him and starts reading.

Zoey is flipping through documents.

Zoey puts the folder down, the documents fall to the

floor.

Zoey picks the documents up and places them in the

folder. She then tosses the folder on the coffee table.

Zoey walks to her bedroom, leaving Anna and Jack

exhausted.

ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-EARLY MORNING

The apartment is quiet. Anna no where in sight, more than

likely in her room sleeping.

Jack is passed out on the couch. Zoey walks in, it's

obvious she hasn't slept all night.

She scoots Jack's legs over and sits on the couch. She

proceeds to pick up the file folder.

She starts thumbing through the documents. After a few

moments she finds one of interest.

She reaches over and pushes Jack.

Jack looks up and sees Zoey.

Zoey hands Jack a document from the folder.

Jack's eyes try to focus on the document.

TITLE CARD: 1 DAY LEFT

EXT. OPEN FIELD-DAY

Louis stares out into the open field. A gust of wind

blows through his hair.

Ryan Blood comes up from behind and pats Louis on the

back.

Louis turns around to face Ryan.

Louis laughs.

Ryan let's out a scream that sounds as though he is being

sodomized.

Louis looks around.

Louis inhales deeply and then lets out a scream. It comes

out more like frightened little girl.

Louis lets out another scream, this one is slightly

better.

Louis lets out another one that actually causes Ryan to

jump back.

Out of nowhere, Quinn walks up to the two of them.

Quinn grabs Louis' arm.

Louis walks with Quinn to a spot that gives them some

distance away from Ryan.

Louis starts to walk away from Quinn. He turns around as

he continues to walk backwards.

EXT. ORPHANAGE-DAY

Zoey's car pulls up in front of an historic brick

building. She slowly gets out and starts to look the

structure over. It's almost like she is trying to assess

if she has the right place.

INT. ORPHANAGE-CONTINUOUS

A awkward young man, JAKE, is sorting through boxes. He's

kneeled on the floor organizing a mess of files. Zoey

walks up and tries to attract his attention.

Jake comes out of his world of file sorting. He looks up

at Zoey.

Jake stands.

Zoey is confused.

MRS. RHODES, a 60 year old odd looking lady, comes out of

the back.

Mrs. Rhodes starts waving her hands at Zoey. She flaps

them up and down in her face.

Mrs. Rhodes steps back like a vampire who has just seen a

cross.

Zoey turns around and starts to leave. Mrs. Rhodes starts

screaming at the top of her lungs.

Zoey runs down the hallway toward the front door.

EXT. ORPHANAGE

Zoey runs outside and makes it to her car. She hits the

roof of her vehicle in anger

Zoey jumps up and screams. She sees Jake standing

creepily behind her.

INTERCUT

INT. ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT- A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Jack sits at the PC while chatting away on his cell

phone. It appears he is looking up information for who

ever is on the other end.

INT.ZOEY'S CAR- CONTINUOUS

Zoey is parked in a parking lot, while she chats on her

cell phone with Jack.

Mrs. Rhodes was pretty well known in

Huntington. I think she felt this guy was

getting in the way of her master plan.

Finally, nearly 20 years later, he

convinced the state what was really going

on there.

Well...elaborate.

That girl you talked to was "pants

crapping nuts". She actually makes your

boyfriend look sane. I guess she believes

that Lucifer came to her in a vision-

-How is that different than a dream? Just

saying-

-I don't know. I think you have to be

awake for a vision.

(beat)

Will you please pay attention? Anyway he,

meaning Lucifer, gave her this jazz

about...well you know the story. Two

angels, fighting to the

death...blah...blah...Anyway he told her

she needed to look after Louis and get

Quinn out of there. I guess trying to

stack the odds in Louis' favor.

So she had Quinn committed?

To the same hospital where her nephew was

a patient. All on the dark lord's orders

I guess.

Fucking Ryan Blood!

Your friends are fucking whack.

Thanks Jack.

So what are you going to do?

ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT

Jack realizes Zoey hung up on him. He slowly puts his

phone down and steps away from the computer.

He walks over to the couch and sits down. He lets out a

sigh of exhaustion as he leans back on the couch.

ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT-A FEW HOURS LATER

Jack is now sprawled out on the couch. Anna walks in the

room and sets a beverage on the coffee table in front of

him.

She moves his legs and sits down beside of him.

Jack sits up.

KNOCKING is heard at the door. Anna gets up to answer.

Anna just gets the door opened a crack when...

Ryan and Louis BURST into the room. Anna SCREAMS. Louis

restrains her against a wall.

Jack gets up from the couch, but he meets a gun handle to

the head from Ryan.

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-MOMENTS LATER

Quinn walks into his room. To his surprise, Zoey is

sitting on his bed. It appears she has been there for a

while.

Quinn walks over and sits on the bed beside her.

Quinn hugs her and they slowly lay down on the bed

together.

QUINN'S ROOM- LATER

Quinn gets pistol whipped across the face. Suddenly we

see Louis picking Zoey up by the hair.

Louis has a hold of Zoey. Quinn gets up and goes for

Ryan.

Louis drop kicks Quinn and sends him flying across the

room.

Louis throws Zoey at Ryan. Ryan then holds her at gun

point.

Ryan beats her repeatedly with the gun until she passes

out cold from the trauma.

Quinn tries to get to his feet, but Louis kicks him back

down.

Ryan throws Louis the gun.

QUINN'S POV

We see Louis with great force repeatedly hit Quinn with

the gun. Everything goes fuzzy and then we...

BLACKNESS

INT. QUINN'S ROOM-HOURS LATER

Quinn slowly gets to his feet. He walks over to the

doorway and kneels down.

He sees a puddle of blood...Zoey's blood. He puts his

fingers in it. He inspects his hand, rubbing the blood

between his index finger and thumb.

He jumps up and screams in anger. That would be Quinn's

version of a battle cry.

CLOSE SHOT-JACK'S FACE

A hand rips duct tape off of Jack's mouth. He let's out a

loud scream.

INT. ZOEY AND ANNA'S APARTMENT- CONTINOUS

Quinn crouches down beside Jack.

Jack and Anna are both tied up, Anna still has duct tape

across her mouth. You can hear her muffled screams as

they fill the room.

Quinn puts the duct tape back on Jack's mouth. Even

though we can't make out what he is saying, he is still

running off at the mouth.

Quinn pats Jack on the head.

Quinn leaves the room. Muffled cursing can be heard

through out the apartment.

CLOSE SHOT-QUINN'S BED

A long black box is pulled out from under Quinn's bed. We

see Quinn's hands unlatch and then open it.

Inside we see Quinn's katana. His hand grips the hilt.

INT. QUINN'S ROOM

Quinn gets up, holding his katana and ready for a fight.

He's dressed in a black biker jacket, kind of looking

like the Bride from Kill Bill.

He walks to the doorway. He stands still for a second.

He's preparing his next move.

Bad ass comic book pose...'nuff said.

TITLE CARD: DAY ZERO THE ENDGAME

DREAM SEQUENCE

START CHOIR MUSIC

INT. CHURCH

The front doors to the church swing open. Light fills the

sanctuary. Zoey walks through the doors.

She heads toward the alter and sees a man, in his 50's,

kneeling. It appears he might be praying.

She places her hand on his shoulder. As he turns around

she sees her Dad.

He reaches for her, she pulls away. She starts to back

up.

She slowly backs up and then turns to walk away.

END DREAM SEQUENCE

END CHOIR MUSIC

CLOSE SHOT- ZOEY'S FACE

Ryan slaps Zoey in the face to wake her up.

EXT. OPEN FIELD-DAY

Ryan pulls Zoey up to her feet. He presses the gun

against her head.

Louis walks out into the middle of the field. He's

dressed in a full ninja outfit.

He unsheathes his katana.

That's not nice! I think I look good.

I think you're a fucking nut bag.

This is going to be fun. You'll see.

Mrs Rhodes? Does that name ring a bell?

My aunt?

Yeah...yeah...she played a part in the

game. Tell us something we don't know.

You're such a sexy Nancy Drew right now.

Go fuck yourself.

Or a foul mouthed Velma. That gets me so

hard. Does that get you hard Ryan?

Can we go back to my aunt please?

Mrs. Rhodes? What about her? Other than

she fucked you guys up. She taught you,

Louis how to play it straight. Then she

has you fuck Quinn over.

She didn't fuck Quinn over. She just

helped him out.

Yeah by getting him in contact with you.

She knew one day it was all going to

catch up with her. She trained me to get

into the game. She told me it was my

destiny.

Is that why she placed you in that

hospital?

Louis is irritated.

Louis spies Quinn in the distance.

START CHOIR MUSIC

Quinn lowers his katana, it brushes against the blades of

grass. Louis follows suit as he slowly walks to meet

Quinn in the middle.

The two warriors stand on opposite sides of the battle

field.

END CHOIR MUSIC

Quinn looks over and sees Zoey.

Ryan grabs her tighter.

(To Louis)

Is this the game you want to play?

I'm not going to lose this time.

(To Quinn)

I thought you didn't believe this shit

anymore.

There's more going on than you realize

Zoey.

This is fucked. Quinn you're not 5000

years old. You were born in an orphanage.

None of this makes sense.

Lady, it would look weird if we roamed

the earth for 5000 years without facing a

mortal death! We keep getting reborn,

sometimes we even switch physical form.

Thanks for coming to the game late missy!

That makes total fucking sense. Color me

stupid!

(to Louis)

What?!?

If you win...you're not becoming the

antichrist.

What are you talking about??

It's   Ryan...it's always been Ryan.

(To Ryan)

What is he talking about?

Louis goes over to Ryan. He trades his sword in for

Ryan's gun.

Ryan holds the katana to Zoey's throat. Louis points the

gun dead at Quinn.

Tense moment as Louis aims the gun at Quinn.

SUDDENLY he spins and shoots Ryan dead in the head.

Ryan falls and Zoey gets free.

Louis looks at Quinn and then throws the gun far out into

the field.

Zoey gets her bearings.

Louis walks over to Ryan and grabs his katana.

Quinn stops and turns toward Zoey.

Zoey walks over to Ryan's body. She searches till she

finds her cell phone in his front pocket.

Quinn looks at Zoey, dead in the eyes.

Quinn turns toward Louis. He pulls his katana up to

attack position and Louis follows suit.

Quinn and Louis charge each other. Zoey doesn't bother to

stay to watch the battle. She slowly walks away.

Quinn and Louis' swords meet. The clang is triumphant.

Details of this climatic battle will be choreographed by

the actors involved, but think high flying Shaw Brothers

film.

We don't see a clear victor, just the two boys going at

it until we can't tell who is who.

OTHER SIDE OF THE FIELD-AWAY FROM THE BATTLE

Zoey starts to make a call on her cell phone.

CLOSE SHOT-CELL PHONE

She starts to dial 911. Her thumb moves in the position

to hit send.

OTHER SIDE OF THE FIELD

Zoey stops. She slowly puts her phone away. She looks

back toward where the battle is going on.

She starts to walk back. The walk turns into a jog.

Finally the jog turns into a full run.

OPEN FIELD

When she gets to the field Quinn and Louis are gone. All

that can be seen is Ryan Blood's body, two katanas and an

empty ninja suit.

Zoey leans down and touches Quinn's katana.

Zoey stares out into the open field. She feels reborn.

She knows there is a new world, a new perspective for her

beyond the horizon.

BLACKNESS

TITLE CARD: 70 YEARS LATER

INT. UNIVERSITY CONFERANCE HALL

The camera slowly pans toward an older ninety year old

Zoey. She's behind a podium, there is a sign on the front

that reads: Marshal University Association of Free

Thought.

The camera ends with a close shot on Zoey's face.

EXT. PARK-RIVERSIDE-LATER

Zoey sits on the same bench where she met Quinn. Her

great-granddaughter, JENNIFER walks up. She sits down

beside her grandmother.

Jennifer turns around.

Zoey turns around to see the BOYFRIEND walking toward

them. It shouldn't come to a surprise that he looks a lot

like Quinn.

Jennifer gets up and grabs her boyfriend around the

waist. He reaches his hand out to Zoey.

Jennifer grabs his hand right after his handshake with

Zoey.

Zoey is stunned.

The two lovebirds walk away. Zoey stares at them for a

second. A it "can't be look" crosses her face.

START "DONE AND DUSTED'

CLOSE UP-ZOEY'S FACE

Zoey smiles almost to say to the camera that there is

more out there. Things that we don't fully understand.

The smile then fades.

Her final look is that of content. And then as Done and

Dusted plays we...

