FADE IN:

INT. DARK ROOM - NIGHT

Pitch dark. We hear two men speaking FRENCH in hushed voices.

NOTE: All dialogue is in French until otherwise noted.

A beat.

EXT. HOUSE -- NIGHT

A wealthy neighborhood of Paris off the Champs Elysees. Large

homes line the secluded street. We see the silhouette of a man in

a Peugeot. We MOVE IN closer to see RAYMOND GAYET, 30's, waits

nervously.

INT. DARK ROOM -- NIGHT

Dark. DANIEL FORAY lights his Zippo lighter. He is late 30's,

tall, handsome with eyes that seem to twinkle in the glow of the

flame. Beside him is JULIEN LABESSE, 30's, hyper. Daniel places

the LIGHTER on a small table and moves over to a PAINTING on the

wall. Daniel stops at one, removes a pen knife and starts to cut

the canvas from the frame.

Daniel rolls up the canvas.

Julien starts to pick up the ZIPPO.

Too Late! Julien has already picked it up. It burns his hand ans

he flicks it away. It flies through the air and lands in the corner

of the room. The CURTAINS catch on fire.

Julien panics! He grabs the canvas out of Daniel's hand and begins

beating the flames with it. Daniel looks at him with disbelief.

Julien flails his arms wildly as he beats back the flames. He

turns to Daniel pleased that his efforts have extinguished the

fire, but unaware that the canvas has now caught on fire. A beat.

Julien sees the flames and puts them out. Daniel just stares at

him. He opens the canvas. The painting is ruined.

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

A Mercedes parks in front of the Peugeot, boxing it in between it

and a car behind it. The DRIVER gets out and walks away.

INT. HOUSE FOYER -- NIGHT

Daniel and Julien move through the darkness.

Julien remove a lighter and presses it. The entire room fills

with light. Julien stares at the flame amazed.

They turn to see an old man standing at the top of the stairs in

his bathrobe. He is frail, his face pasty white. He is holding a

very long, double-barrel shotgun.

Julien looks to Daniel with a 'what now' expression. The old man

slowly moves down the stairs. He loses his balance and falls down

the stairs, tumbling head over heals until he reaches the bottom.

Daniel and Julien stare at the old man who is sprawled out on the

floor, motionless.

The old man groans, then opens his eyes.    He grabs his shotgun.

Daniel and Julien run to the door.

EXT. HOUSE -- NIGHT

Daniel and Julien run towards the street.

Raymond starts the engine.   Daniel and Julien rush across the street

and get in the back seat.

Raymond tries to pull out but there are only a few inches between

the Mercedes in front and the car behind. Like a pinball stuck

between two bumpers the Peugeot jerks rapidly back and forth.

INT. PEUGEOT -- CONTINUOUS

Daniel and Julien stare angrily ar Raymond.

Daniel looks out his window and sees...

DANIEL'S POV -- the old man runs out of his house with his shotgun

and heads towards the car.

Raymond is desperately trying to get the car free. They all slide

down as the old man fires. The windows on the left side of the

car shatter.

Raymond pops up and returns to getting the car out as the old man

opens the breach of the shotgun to reload..

Raymond floors the Peugeot keeping his foot on the brake. The

engine revs. He turns the wheel to the left and releases the brake.

The Peugeot juts forward smashing into the rear of the Mercedes

and pushing in out into the street. Before the old man can take

aim the Peugeot is speeding down the street.

INT. PEUGEOT -- MOVING -- NIGHT

Raymond bites his lip nervously as he drives.    Julien finds the

whole thing amusing. Daniel leans forward.

EXT. STREET, PARIS -- DAY

A narrow street. Daniel carries the cardboard tube as he walks

with Julien and Raymond. They enter a WAREHOUSE.

INT. BASTALDI'S OFFICE -- DAY

Two large desks are lined up face to face. One is empty. The

other is occupied by LAURANT BASTALDI, 40's, all business. Off to

the side is MARCEL BUROT, 40's. Daniel, Julien and Raymond enter.

As they approach the desk Daniel glances at Marcel who is staring

at him.

Marcel glances at Bastaldi to see if he appreciates his comments.

A beat. Raymond and Marcel stare at one another.     We HEAR a muffled

GROANING SOUND in the b.g.

Daniel lays the cardboard tube containing the painting on the desk.

Bastaldi removes the painting. To him it is not a work of art,

just a commodity to be sold. He opens his desk drawer, removes

several large stacks of money and hands them to Daniel.

We HEAR the groaning sound again. Bastaldi looks irritated. He

gets up and walks over to a closet. He opens to the doors to reveal

a man in his underwear, his wrists tied behind his back, his mouth

taped shut. A wire noose is around his neck forcing him to stand

on his tip toes to avoid hanging himself.

The man looks at Bastaldi through pleading eyes and mumbles

something.

Bastaldi closes the door.   Daniel looks at him inquisitively.

Bastaldi looks puzzled.

Bastaldi thinks about something for a moment, then...

Daniel is still staring at the closet.

Bastaldi tosses a photo of a middle-aged American couple.   He points

to a diamond necklace around the woman's neck.

They know they don't have a choice.

EXT. NOTRE DAME -- DAY

The plaza is filled with tourists. Moving through the crowd is

SAMI ZERHOUNI, Algerian, late 20's, a small time street hustler,

dressed in jeans and a "I Love Paris" tee-shirt. He passes a

MAN who is about to take a picture and lifts his wallet.

Sami moves on. He sees two overweight women standing at a

vendor's cart, holding a large wad of MONEY. The woman puts the

cash back in her purse, but does not zip it up.

Sami moves in behind her and slips his hand into the purse. She

zips the bag closed. Sami's face fills with pain as the zipper

catches the hair of his arm. The women walk towards the

cathedral. Sami has no choice but follow after them. He tries

to match their pace so he doesn't alert them of his presence.

The woman looks back and sees Sami's hand. She pulls her bag

away, ripping a section of hair off his arm, then swings the

bag, putting all of her weight behind it. It hits Sami squarely

in the face. He lands on his back with a thud. WALLETS and

BILLFOLDS fly out from every one of his pockets.

He staggers to his feet and starts to pick up the wallets when

he sees...

HIS POV -- ACROSS THE PLAZA:    of two police officers moving

towards him .

He knows he has no more time.    He takes off running, disappearing

into the crowd.

INT. CAFE -- LATIN QUARTER -- DAY

Sami is at the bar. He sees Marcel enter and runs towards the

back. Standing in his way is one of Marcel's MEN. Sami turns

around as Marcel approaches and forces a smile.

NOTE:   All dialogue is now in English unless otherwise noted.

A long, awkward beat as Marcel just glares at him.

Marcel opens the door to the bathroom and pushes Sami inside.

INT. BATHROOM -- CONTINUOUS -- DAY

Marcel closes the door.   He is face to face with Sami.

Marcel punches Sami in the stomach. He drops to his knees. A

beat. The door to the bathroom opens and the LARGE MAN peers

inside. He stares awkwardly at what he perceives as the beginning

of a sexual act.

Marcel slams the door then grabs Sami by the ear and yanks him to

his feet.

Marcel glares at him.

Marcel stares at him with hard expression.

He hands Sami a piece of paper.

INT. CAFE -- MORNING

Daniel sits with Julien.    At the end of the bar Raymond is on the

pay phone.

Sami enters and walks over to Daniel and Julien.

The door opens. ZERO enters. No one knows his last name. He is

40's, blonde hair, leather jacket, black pants. Looks more like a

rock-star than a criminal. His eyes are flat and there is an

intensity about him that is unnerving. Zero casually nods to

Daniel. Zero stares at Sami as Daniel leads him over.

Sami laughs at his little joke. The others cringe. One look in

Zero's eyes tells Sami what everyone else already knows: This is

not someone to fuck with. Julien puts his arm around Sami and

leads him away from the others.

Sami leans over to Raymond.

EXT. CAFE -- DAY

Daniel and the others step out carrying their suitcases. The door

to a limousine opens and Marcel gets out. The scene is in FRENCH.

INT. LIMO -- MOVING -- DAY

For many of them this is the first time they have ever been inside

a limo. Julien pours himself a drink. Sami plays around with the

air conditioner.

Zero turns on the radio and clicks through a few stations until he

comes to RENAUD singing "Des que le vent souffera." He leans back

in his seat, bobbing his head to the music. Marcel doesn't like

it. He changes the station. We hear JOHNNY HALLYDAY singing, "Que

je taime."

Zero doesn't like it. He pushes the button returning to the Renaud

song and stares at Marcel. Marcel, not to be outdone returns the

Hallyday song. Like two children they click the buttons of the

radio, switching back and forth between Renaud and Hallyday.

Bastaldi has had enough.

He turns off the radio. A long beat. Marcel, like a child who

has to have the last word starts singing to himself quietly, but

loud enough for Zero to hear.

Marcel sees Bastaldi glaring at him and stops.

EXT. O'HARE AIRPORT -- MORNING

Daniel and the crew get into a mini-van taxi.

EXT. CHICAGO DRIVING MONTAGE -- MORNING

Quick cuts of the familiar sights of the city. The Sears building.

Chicago board of trade building. Grant park. Then with each

successive cut the beauty of the city seems to fade until we are

in...

EXT. STREET -- MORNING

An industrial section of the city. Empty streets. Run down

buildings. Graffiti filled walls and burnt out hulls of abandoned

cars line the street. The taxi driver leans out his window.

Marcel looks at a piece of paper he is holding.

The taxi speeds off, leaving them standing on the sidewalk, their

bags in a pile. Suddenly, from out of nowhere three BLACK TOUGHS

appear and walk over. Daniel looks behind him and sees another

two approaching from the rear. Zero calmly sits down on one of

the suitcases.

LAMAR, 30's, the leader of the group steps forward.

Sami raises his hand as if to greet Lamar.

Sami looks like an idiot with his hand up in the air.   He casually

lowers it. Lamar looks over the group and grins.

Lamar forces a laugh.

Raymond steps forward and places his hand on Lamar's arm.

Lamar removes a knife. The others in his group bring out an

assortment of clubs, chains and pipes.

Zero is still sitting on one of the suitcases.

Julien shrugs his shoulders.

Zero stands up and raises his hand.   He is holding a .9mm Glock.

He aims it at Lamar's head.

Lamar's brave exterior quickly fades now that he is looking down

the barrel of the gun. The rest of his gang turns and runs away.

Zero aims the gun at his groin.

Lamar runs away. Daniel and the others smile at Zero as they pick

up their bags and walk towards a building.

Zero is left with Sami who stares at him with disbelief.

Zero grins and walks away.

EXT. WAREHOUSE -- MORNING

The crew stands at a door. Marcel knocks.     A peep-hole in the

door is opened and an eye looks them over.

The door is opened by SOPHIE (the girl in the photo on Bastaldi's

computer). She is late 20's, beautiful.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MORNING

An old building, the rooms are partitioned off by sheets hanging

from the ceiling. The main area is an artists workspace where

large abstract paintings lean against the wall.

Of to the side, sitting on the couch is WAYNE, 20's, a burn-out

with long hair and a scraggly goatee. His face is buried in a

bong as he sucks in a lung full of marijuana. He watches a cartoon

show on the television.

Raymond walks over to him.

Raymond looks at the television and sees a cartoon show.

Wayne stares at him with a dead pan expression as he tries to

assemble a coherent thought.

INT. COFFEE SHOP -- AFTERNOON

Because of the hour the room is not crowded. Only a few PEOPLE

sit at the counter sipping coffee. A WAITRESS, 50's, bee hive

hair style, face covered in make up arrives at the table.

Julien looks up at her.

Zero grins as he puts a cigarette in his mouth.     The waitress pulls

it out of his mouth.

CLOSE ON MAN'S FACE.

VINNY, 40's, not the brightest bulb on the tree. His head snaps

back as someone punches him in the face. Blood flows from his

nose. We are in...

EXT. ALLEY -- AFTERNOON

Two GANGSTERS stand on each side of Vinny. They are JOEY "TWO

TONS" 40's, could have a second career as a Sumo Wrestler. NICKY

"THE RAKE", 30's, thin a rail. They make a strange pair but they

both have one thing in common: They are stone cold killers.

Standing in front of the them is FRANKIE ZAMMITO, 30's, a wise

guy, tough as they come. He wears a well tailored suit, black

leather gloves and polished shoes.

Vinny gets off his knees and moves towards Zammito.

Vinny takes a step back.

Vinny looks up at Zammito through pleading eyes.

INT. COFFEE SHOP -- LATER -- AFTERNOON

The table is littered with plates.   Sophie has sketched out a

diagram of a house on her napkin.

EXT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- AFTERNOON

As they crew and Sophie approach the door we hear the muted roar

of loud MUSIC.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- AFTERNOON

As the enter the music is even louder. The bass pounds through

the walls. Wayne seems oblivious to it as he sits on the couch

smoking a joint.

Sophie and Wayne both find his offer amusing.

Raymond leaves.

EXT. SIDE OF WAREHOUSE -- AFTERNOON

Raymond walks towards a door at the end of the building. The MUSIC

grows louder. He KNOCKS on the door and waits. It is opened by a

very large man... a biker type, leather jacket, full beard, several

long earrings hanging from his ear. He is holding a BEER BOTTLE.

Behind him are two other rough-looking men.

The Biker takes a sip of his beer.

Before Raymond can finish his sentence the Biker pours his beer

over Raymond's head.

He slams the door in Raymond's face.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER -- AFTERNOON

The music continues to pound through the walls. A soggy Raymond

steps into the room. He walks over to a chair and sits down, his

head hung down, embarrassed. Marcel is angered by this. He glances

over to Daniel who subtly nods to him. Marcel leaves the room.

EXT. SIDE OF WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER -- AFTERNOON

Marcel walks purposefully along the side of the building. He

reaches into his jacket pocket and removes two black leather gloves.

He slips them on as he approaches the door, then knocks. A beat.

The Biker opens the door.

Marcel head butts him, slamming his forehead into the bridge of

his nose. The Biker clasps his hands over his bleeding nose.

Marcel grabs him by the hair and rapidly punches him in face several

times -- each punch backing the Biker into the room.

INT. BIKER'S WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS

On the last punch the Biker falls backwards crashing through a

large glass coffee table.

BIKER #2 moves in behind Marcel and throws a hard punch as Marcel

turns around. Marcel bends his head down, so that his attackers

fists slams into the hard crown of his skull.

BIKER #2 painfully grabs his broken knuckles. Marcel knees him

hard in the groin. BIKER #2 turns to his side and doubles over.

Marcel kicks the man into the back of his knee spinning him around

and down on his knees.

In a fluid movement he elbows the man in the back of head . BIKER

#2 falls face forwards and is out cold.

Marcel turns to the third BIKER who is standing by the stereo. He

is smaller than the others and has seen enough. He quickly turns

off the power. DEAD QUIET.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER -- AFTERNOON

Marcel enters.   Wayne is on the couch with Raymond.

EXT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- AFTERNOON

A plain looking building in an old neighborhood of the city.

INT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB - ZAMMITO'S OFFICE -- AFTERNOON

Zammito sits at his desk. Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The Rake"

sit on the couch. Bobby Beans balding, stocky enters.

He walks up to Zammito and they kiss each other on the cheek.

Zammito motions for Bobby to sit down.

You sure? I just got a shipment of

espresso from Sicily. Special blend.

Can't find anything like it in the States.

I'm good.   Really.

Okay. I understand you're interested in

one of our properties?

Yeah. That warehouse over on Merchant

Street. The volume on our import business

has risen dramatically. The proceeds

this quarter will be supernumerary due

to the --

-- Super what?

Supernumerary. It means better than

expected.

Then why not just fuckin' say better

than expected? Everybody knows what

better than expected means.

I'm taking a vocabulary course to enhance

my communication skills.

Okay.   How much?

I'm not here to negotiate.

Why are you here?

To tell you that we're interested in the

property.

You told me that on the phone. What the

hell are you doing here? Showing off

your communication skills? Go back to

your people and tell them when they're

serious to put a number on the table.

I will relay the particulars of our

conversation to Mr. Maranzano.

Bobby Beans leaves.

Zammito looks over at Joey and Nicky.

Nicky gets up to carry out his instructions.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- LATER -- AFTERNOON

Julien and Zero are playing cards at the back of the room. Sami

sitting by himself sorting through a BLACK CANVAS BAG filled with

shoes. Sophie joins him. Sami pulls another pair of shoes out of

the canvas bag.

Sami dumps the rest of the shoes out of the bag.

She sees a TATTOO on Sami's arm.    It's a heart with someone's faded

name.

Sami is suddenly self-conscious of it.    She traces along the letters

with her finger.

Sami looks at her quizzically.

She smiles flirtatiously and walks away.

EXT. LIQUOR STORE -- EVENING

A car drives up. We can only see the outline of an old Chevy

Impala. Two men get out of the car, leaving the engine running as

they head for the liquor store.

Across the street Raymond is checking out a Buick LaSabre, but

stops when he sees the flashing alarm light on the dashboard. He

looks across the street and sees the Impala.

INT. LIQUOR STORE -- EVENING

An OLD MAN is behind the counter.   Two masked men enter with guns

and rush up to the counter.

The old man opens the cash register and hands him all the bills.

Raphael pistol whips him with his gun and drags him half way over

the counter, then presses his gun to the old man's head.

Raphael pushes him to the floor.    He runs out of the store with

the others.

EXT. LIQUOR STORE -- EVENING

They run out and remove their masks. RAPHAEL RUIZ, 20's, Latin,

tough, shaved head, neck covered with tattoos. HECTOR, Latin,

small, cubby, stops and stares at something with confusion.

Raphael stops as he sees the street is empty.

Hector has to grab Raphael who is too stunned to move and drag him

down the street.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- EVENING

The crew gets ready. On the table a variety of gear is laid out.

Cells phones, electronic devices, all the tools of the trade.

Sami throws some items into the black canvas bag. A cell phone

rings. Julien answers it.

They grab their gear and head for the door. Sophie leans over and

kisses Sami on the cheek. He stares at her, half surprised, half

embarrassed.

EXT. STREET, SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

The crew steps out to find Raymond in the IMPALA. We can see it

clearer now. It's a low rider car. Bright orange flames are

painted on the side, wire wheels and chrome exhaust pipes.

Raymond pushes a button and the hydraulics make the car bounce up

and down. Sami rolls his eyes as the others get into the car.

ACROSS THE STREET -- Lamar is standing in the shadows with one of

his friends, watching.

INT. IMPALA -- MOVING -- EVENING

The six of them are crammed into the car as it moves down the

street. Julien studies a map.

INT.   RAPHAEL'S HOUSE -- EVENING

Raphael sits on the couch. He can barely contain his anger. He

looks up slowly, his jaw clenched. Hector sits across from him

with a few other GANG BANGERS.

The other Gang Bangers laugh at Hector.

Hector slinks out of the room.        Raphael's face hardens.

INT. ITALIAN RESTAURANT -- EVENING

A family operation. Checkerboard table clothes. Candles burning

in Chianti bottles. On the stereo VIC DAMONE sings "Angela Mia".

Zammito waits at a table. His cell phone rings.

Zammito thinks it over.

He walks over to the MARIO, the OWNER of the restaurant.

EXT. WRIGLEY FIELD STADIUM -- NIGHT

The Impala is stopped in the parking lot.

INT. BONANNO'S HOUSE, STUDY -- EVENING

Zammito enters to find ANGELO BONANNO, 60's, powerful, head of the

Chicago Mob. He is smoking a cigar with a glass of brandy.

Bonanno motions to the couch.    Zammito sits down.

Bonanno stares at him.

Half Tooth Tony, 30's, built like a tank step into the room. He

has the face of a boxer, several of his teeth are chipped or broken.

Half Tooth Tony leaves.

Bonanno affectionately slaps Zammito's cheeks.

Bonanno takes a sip of his brandy, but his eyes stay on Zammito.

A long beat. Bonanno thinks about what he said, not sure what to

make of it, then...

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

The Impala is by the pumps. Sami leans out the window holding the

map as he speaks with the station attendant.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET -- NIGHT

An upscale neighborhood. Expensive homes line the wooded street.

The Impala stops and the crew gets out.

EXT. ZAMMITO'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Julien attaches a device to the alarm panel. A series of numbers

flash by as the computer cracks the code. One by one, the numbers

stop until the entry code is displayed on the screen. He enters

the numbers on the alarm and nods to the others.

Julien and Zero move around to the side of the house as Daniel,

Sami and Marcel wait in the shadows.

EXT. ZAMMITO'S HOUSE, SIDE OF HOUSE -- NIGHT

Julien places a retractable ladder against the wall and climbs up.

He pries open the window and climbs in. Zero follows.

INT. ZAMMITO'S HOUSE, BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Dark. Julien makes his way to the door and repeats the process

with another alarm panel. Zero sits on the corner of the bed and

waits patiently. Julien turns off the hall alarm and nods to Zero.

Zero speed dials a number on his cell phone.

EXT. ZAMMITO'S HOUSE -- NIGHT

Daniel uses a locksmith tool and quickly pries the lock out of the

door. They go inside.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Julien and Zero wait for them. We hear a toilet flush. The door

to the bathroom opens and a man steps out. In an instant Julien

and Zero jump him. The others enter and quickly join in to subdue

the man.

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

Raymond waits in the Impala.    He can't resist using the hydraulics,

raising the car up and down.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

The lights are on. The room is an interior designers nightmare.

Clashing colors, zebra skin bedspread. We move along Daniel, Sami,

Marcel, Julien and Zero as they stare at something.

THEIR POV -- Tied to a chair, his mouth taped shut, is a very angry

Frankie Zammito. He yells, his voice muffled by the tape, but

it's not hard to understand what he's saying.

Julien goes to a bookcase and finds the safe.

He removes his tools and goes to work. Sami stares at Zammito

with vague recognition, then turns to the others.

Marcel smiles happily.

Marcel sees an autographed baseball on the book shelf.

Marcel tosses the ball into the black canvas bag.     Daniel stares

at him.

INT. HOUSE ACROSS THE STREET -- NIGHT

A surveillance operation. Two FBI agents sit near the window.       A

small card table is littered with coffee cups. SPECIAL AGENT

AGENT HADLEY, 40's, a hardened field agent, picks up a pair of

binoculars and looks out the window.

HIS POV - THROUGH THE BINOCULARS:    of Zammito tied to the chair

and surrounded by the others.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

BLACK SCREEN. From inside the safe we see Julien open the door.

Daniel and Julien look inside. There are a several stacks of cash,

envelopes and a small cardboard box. Julien starts removing

everything and puts it into the bag canvas bag.

Marcel looks as surprised as they are.

Sami moves closer to Zammito, studying his face. He moves over to

the dresser where there are several photographs of Zammito with

various famous people. Next to the photographs is a plaque that

reads: TO FRANCIS ZAMMITO...

We can see the color drain from Sami's face. He glances over at

Zammito whose eyes are locked on his. Sami grabs Daniel and Marcel

and pulls them aside.

A beat. The three of them turn and look at Zammito. The

seriousness of the situation finally dawns on Marcel. He moves

over to Zammito and rips the tape off his mouth.

Marcel picks up the cordless phone and dials.

INT. BASTALDI'S BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Bastaldi removes a sleep mask and answers the phone.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Marcel continues his conversation.

We can hear Bastaldi sigh over the line.

Bastaldi hangs up.   The line goes dead.

Marcel whispers into Daniel's ear.

Zero who has been standing quietly by the window sees something

across the street. A flash. Light reflecting off glass. He takes

a pair of night vision binoculars out of one of the bags and looks

out the window.

ZERO'S POV -- of Agent Hadley and the other FBI Agent watching

him.

Daniel grabs the binoculars and looks.

Daniel closes the curtains. He tries to think. The crew huddles

together in the corner, speaking softly so Zammito can't hear them.

Daniel looks at the others.

Marcel and Zero nod.   Daniel looks to Julien who appears indecisive.

Julien nods.   Sami walks over and grabs the black canvas bag.

Zero grins then tapes his mouth closed again.

EXT. BACK OF HOUSE -- NIGHT

The crew goes out the back door and climb over a fence.

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

The crew arrives to find Raymond still playing with the hydraulics

of the Impala. They get in.

EXT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

The Impala pulls into a driveway and goes to the rear of the

building, out of view from the street.

EXT. SOPHIE'S FRONT DOOR -- NIGHT

The crew waits as the door is unlocked.   Wayne opens the door in a

stoned haze.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

The crew places their equipment on the table.

She enters and appears surprised to see them.

She quickly notices their angry expressions.

INT. SURVEILLANCE HOUSE -- NIGHT

Agent Hadley checks his watch.

Agent Hadley thinks a moment.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Zammito is still tied to his chair.

HIS POV -- of the cordless phone of his bed.

He pushes with his feet, sliding the chair over to the bed, then

starts rocking back and forth until he tips over forward, his face

pressed against the mattress. Using his nose he turns on the phone

and presses a speed dial number.

INT. JOEY TWO TONS BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Joey "Two Tons" is asleep in a sleeveless tee shirt. Next to him

is his wife, her hair in curlers, her eyes covered by a black sleep

mask. The phone rings. Joey answers it.

We hear Zammito's muffled cries for help. It almost sounds like

someone moaning during a sexual act. Joey is surprised at first,

then glances over at his wife to make sure she is asleep. He slides

his hand under the covers and closes his eyes.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Zammito stops as he begins to realize what Joey is doing on the

other end of the line. He grimaces, then shouts louder.

INT. JOEY TWO TONS BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Joey is really going to town now as his hand moves slowly under

the covers. We hear a loud scream on the phone.

He is really deep into his fantasy world when...

Joey sits up quickly.

He slams the phone down. A long beat. It rings again. This time

he checks his caller ID and sees that call is coming from Zammito's

house.

Again we hear the same muffled cries.

INT. BODY SHOP -- NIGHT

Raphael enters with Hector and two GANG-BANGERS.   The room is filled

with low rider cars.

Working under the hood of a car is FELIX, 30's, sleazy. Raphael

walks over and slams the hood down, pinning Felix's upper body and

squishing his face between the hood and engine.

Raphael lifts up the hood and slams it down on Felix again.

Hector is embarrassed as Raphael once again berates him in front

of the others. Raphael picks up a pair of pliers of the workbench.

He clamps them down on the tip of Felix's nose and squeezes.

Felix's face fills with pain.

He gives the pliers one last squeeze, then releases Felix.

INT. SURVEILLANCE HOUSE -- NIGHT

Agent Hadley sips a cup of warm coffee.     He looks very concerned.

Agent Hadley is about to answer when he sees something.

HIS POV -- of a Lincoln Town Car pull up.    Joey "Two Tons" gets

out, goes to the front door and enters.

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Joey enters to find Zammito tied to the chair, face down on the

bed.

INT. ZAMMITO'S LIVING ROOM -- NIGHT

Zammito stands behind the bar pouring himself a large scotch.

Zammito stares at Joey for a long beat, then...

Joey looks away, embarrassed.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- NIGHT

Sami can't sleep. He walks over to the table and sorts through

the canvas bag containing the contents of Zammito's safe. Inside

a small cardboard box he finds several cassette tapes. He removes

the box and walks to the stereo system on the floor, then inserts

a tape into the cassette deck. A moment later Sophie enters.

She notices the box of tapes.

She grins seductively, then leans in towards him.

They kiss.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MORNING

Sami is asleep on the floor, curled up under several blankets. He

wakes up and looks to his side expecting to find Sophie. She is

not there. Sami looks around for her.

Wayne is sitting on the couch preparing his morning joint.

It takes a moment for Sami to connect the thoughts.

Sami runs to the table.      The black canvas bag is gone.

CLOSE ON DANIEL:    Asleep.    Sami shakes him.   He opens his eyes.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MOMENTS LATER

Daniel and Sami are with the crew. They are not a happy bunch.

Wayne is smoking his joint, his eyes locked on the television.

A thought occurs to Sami.

He removes the tape he put in the cassette deck last night before

Sophie entered.

He realizes it may not be the time to tell them what happened.

Wayne blurts out a sloppy laugh.

Daniel stares at him angrily.

Daniel grabs the cassette and puts it in the player.   On the tape

we hear a phone ringing.

Sami is the first to realize what he is hearing.

Sami holds his hand signaling them to be quiet so he can hear the

rest.

A pause on the line.

The line goes dead.    Sami leans back.

They all look over at him as he takes a huge hit off his joint.

EXT. STREET -- MORNING

A beat up Ford Pinto sputters down the street, black smoke spewing

from the tail pipe.

INT. PINTO -- MOVING -- MORNING

Raphael is at the wheel, his eyes scanning the street for his car.

In the passenger seat Hector sits calmly. They come to a red light

and stop.

RAPHAEL'S POV -- Across the street is low rider car.

Raphael stares at it as he thinks about his own car.

ON HECTOR. We see the Impala pull up beside them.       Raymond is

driving. Daniel, Sami and Zero are with him.

Hector glances over and sees the Impala. Raymond smiles at him

and nods. Hector slowly nods back. He looks over at Raphael who

is still looking out the window.

The light turns green. The Impala turns right.     Raphael looks

over at a confused Hector.

EXT. BAY VIEW MOTEL -- MORNING

A motel like any other.   Sami stands outside the office with Daniel,

Raymond and Zero.

INT. OFFICE -- BAY VIEW MOTEL -- MORNING

Sami enters.   Behind the counter is the MOTEL CLERK, middle-aged,

balding.

Sami nods and walks outside. Through the window we see him talking

with the others. A beat. Sami steps back inside with Zero.

Before he can finish the sentence Zero has his gun out and wedged

under the clerks jaw.

EXT. MOTEL ROOM -- MORNING

Sami knocks. The others stand off to the side of the door. Sophie

opens the door and sees Sami. Before she can slam it he pushes it

open.

INT. MOTEL ROOM -- MORNING

Sami pushes her onto the bed.

Sami feigns a smile. Zero checks the bathroom to make sure she is

alone. He looks at Daniel and shake his head. Raymond finds the

black canvas bag on the dresser and checks the contents.

She stares at them defiantly.

INT. MOTEL ROOM -- LATER -- MORNING

A knock on the door. Sami clamps his hand over Sophie's mouth

just in case she gets any stupid ideas. Daniel opens the door.

Agent Hadley steps in, stares at Daniel, then feels the barrel of

Zero's gun pressed against his head.

Hadley steps into the room. Daniel closes the door. Zero searches

him. Finds a gun which he gives to Daniel, then a wallet. He

opens it and sees his FBI identification.

Zero knowingly bends down and removes Hadley's backup gun which is

strapped to his ankle. He gives the gun to Sami.

Sami looks at her -- at Hadley -- at the black canvas bag.    Slowly

it starts to come together in his mind.

He stares at Sophie angrily.

Her expression gives away nothing.

Daniel motions to Zero.

Zero stares at Hadley, just waiting for Daniel to give him the go

ahead.

Daniel nods.   Zero aims his gun at Hadley's knee cap.

They know he's right.

Sami lifts up a heavy brass lamp from the nightstand. He pulls

the electrical cord out of the base, then touches two wires

together. They spark. Before Hadley can say a word Sami touches

them to his hand. Hadley's body jerks violent as he screams.

Sami removes the wires. Hadley winces in pain from the burn mark

on his hand.

Agent Hadley nods.

There is no point in hiding anything now.

INT. ITALIAN RESTAURANT -- LAST NIGHT (FLASHBACK)

We see Zammito walk over to Mario.

Zammito leaves. Through the window we see Joey "Two Tons" open

the door to the car. Zammito and Joey get in and drive away. A

beat. A Taxi pulls up. The front door opens and Sophie enters,

all dressed up and beautiful. She walks up to Mario.

INT. MOTEL ROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Sami stares at her with contempt.

Agent Hadley looks to Sophie.

They move to the door.

EXT. BAY VIEW MOTEL -- MORNING

Daniel, Sami, Raymond and Zero walk to the Impala.

Daniel dials a number on his cell phone.

INT. MOTEL ROOM -- MORNING

Agent Hadley steps out of the bathroom, a towel wrapped around the

burn on his hand.

She likes the idea.   Already she's thinking how she can work her

way into this.

His jaw tightens.

Hadley is standing behind her. He lifts up the brass lamp with

his towel and swings down hard towards Sophie's head.

EXT. STREET, SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- MORNING

Marcel, Julien and Wayne are waiting as the Impala drives up.

Raymond hops out of the car.

Marcel grabs Raymond and leads him back to the car.    Daniel sees

Lamar standing across the street.

He gets out of the car and walks over to him.

Daniel nods.

Daniel hands him his cell phone.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- DAY

Wayne is on the couch watching TV. There is a loud knock on the

door. He opens the door to find Agent Hadley.

Hadley pushes past Wayne and enters.

Hadley flashes his badge.

Hadley punches Wayne in the face.    Wayne falls to the floor.

Agent Hadley kicks Wayne in the chest.

Agent Hadley kicks Wayne in the ribs.

Hadley sees the phone number Raymond gave Wayne on the coffee table.

He puts it in his pocket and stares at Wayne, then just for the

hell of it gives him one last kick in the ribs.

EXT. BAY VIEW MOTEL -- DAY

A MAID stops her cart in front of room fourteen.   She KNOCKS.

No answer. She uses her key and steps into the room.   A beat.   We

hear a loud scream.

EXT.   HOLIDAY HOTEL -- EVENING

A large building near the freeway.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

Raymond is on the phone.

Daniel, Sami and Julien sit at a table. Marcel stares out the

window sadly. Zero is flipping through the television channels.

Raymond hangs up the phone and joins the others.

They take a step towards each other.   Sami steps in between them.

Zero turns to another channel. A news broadcast.     We see a mug

shot photo of SAMI on the screen.

Zero turns up the volume.

Sami is stunned.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

The Reporter continues her story.

Pull back.   We are now in...

INT. ZAMMITO'S BEDROOM -- CONTINUOUS

Zammito grimaces as the news of the robbery becomes public.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

The Reporter continues.

Pull back again...

INT. LAMAR'S APARTMENT -- CONTINUOUS

Lamar is sitting on the couch watching the news report with

amusement.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

The reporter finishes her story.

Pull back again...

INT. AGENT HADLEY'S APARTMENT -- EVENING

Hadley grins as he watches the report.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

We are back in....

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

Sami turns off the television and looks to the others.

Sami gets into Julien's face.

Julien walks away.    Daniel picks up the phone and dials a number.

INT. LAMAR'S APARTMENT -- SAME TIME

The cell phone Daniel gave him rings.      He answers it.

The line goes dead.    Lamar grins, happy with the money he's going

to make.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

The others are looking at Daniel.

EXT. BONANNO HOUSE -- MORNING

A Lincoln Town Car drives up. Zammito gets out with Joey "Two

Tons" and Nicky "The Rake. They wait outside. Zammito enters.

INT. BONANNO'S HOUSE, STUDY -- MORNING

Bonanno is behind his desk. Half Tooth Tony sits on the couch.

Zammito enters. Bonanno walks around his desk and hugs Zammito.

Bonanno places his hands on Zammito's cheeks and presses them

together.

Bonanno releases him.

EXT. BONANNO HOUSE -- MORNING

Zammito steps out onto the street. Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The

Rake" are pitching pennies against the wall. They start arguing

about something.

Zammito walks over.

Zammito grabs him by the neck and smashes his face into the wall.

Both men walk to the car. Zammito starts after them, then stops.

He turns back, picks up the coins and puts them in his pocket.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- LOBBY -- MORNING

Sami moves through a crowd of PEOPLE. He looks around until he

sees a man who looks remarkably similar to Raymond. Sami bumps

into him and lifts his wallet.

INT. STEREO STORE -- MORNING

Marcel waits as a SALESPERSON brings over several boxes of

electronic equipment.

EXT. LUGGAGE SHOP -- MORNING

Sami passes the shop. He stops. In the window is BLACK CANVAS

BAG that is identical to the one that they used on the job. He

goes into the store.

EXT. BARCLAY HOTEL -- MORNING

An old building that has seen better days.   Daniel and Zero get

out of a Taxi and go inside.

INT. HALLWAY -- BARCLAY HOTEL -- MORNING

Looks even worse on the inside. A dark corridor is lit by bare

light bulbs hanging from the ceiling. An old PROSTITUTE walks

past them, her smile signaling she is open for business. They

arrive at room 211 and knock. The door is opened by a very large

BLACK MAN. Behind him we can see Lamar with ELLWOOD, 20's, sun

glasses, his neck draped in gold chains.

Daniel pulls back his jacket to reveal the gun he took from Hadley

in his waistband.

Daniel looks past him to Ellwood.

Daniel removes an envelope full of cash.

Ellwood stomps his foot several times on the floor.   The black guy

feels the vibration and turns around.

The black guy steps aside.   Daniel and Zero enter.

INT. BARCLAY HOTEL ROOM -- MORNING

Ellwood is sitting on the bed behind several open suitcases

displaying a variety of weapons.

Daniel looks over the merchandise.

Daniel starts counting out the money. Ellwood points a .357 magnum

he's been holding behind the open suitcase at them.

Daniel slowly grabs his gun and places it on the floor, then kicks

it under the bed.

Ellwood speaks to his cousin, speaking slowly and enunciating each

word so he can read his lips.

The black guy get on his hands and knees and starts looking for

the gun under the bed. As he does Daniel glances over at Zero

with a look. Ellwood aims his gun at Zero.

Zero opens his coat and reveals his .9mm.

He stares at Ellwood calmly through dead, flat eyes.

Ellwood is confused. Daniel bolts to his left. Ellwood's eyes

leave Lamar for a moment -- it's a moment too long. In a blur of

movement Zero has his gun out and fires one shot into Ellwood's

forehead.

Ellwood slumps down on the bed, dead. The black guy who has heard

nothing continues searching under the bed. Zero casually picks up

the suitcase filled with guns and hands it to Daniel. They walk

out of the room. Lamar stands there, stunned, then quickly runs

after them.

A beat. The black guy pops up with Daniel's gun oblivious to what

has transpired in the room.

EXT. BARCLAY HOTEL -- MORNING

Daniel pushes Lamar out the door. Zero steps out behind him. He

stares at Lamar for a long moment, then hands him the envelope.

In the background we hear the loud, agonizing scream from the black

guy as he finds Ellwood's body.

INT. CAR RENTAL AGENCY -- DAY

Raymond and Julien approach the counter.   Raymond is nervous.

They arrive at the counter. The RENTAL AGENT, a man in his 30's

looks up at them with a smile.

Raymond smiles, a big, friendly, completely over exaggerated smile.

Julien looks at him and rolls his eyes. The Rental Agent walks

down to the end of the counter and dials a number on the phone.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM -- DAY

Vinny is in bed, his arm in a cast and sling. His wife ANGIE,

30's, big hair, loud clothes. She sits on the bed feeding him.

His two kids, RICHIE, 8, and TOMMY 10, sit off to the side. Zammito

enters.

She kisses him. Vinny stares blankly at his brother. Zammito

takes a step back, looks her up and down. He lays on the charm.

Zammito moves over to the kids and offers a quick hello.

Zammito pulls out a roll of bills that could choke a horse and

peels one off.

Angie looks at the money.

She takes the kids and leaves.

Zammito sits on the edge of the bed.

Zammito's cell phone rings.

Zammito hangs up.

Zammito leaves.    Vinny can only shake his head in bewilderment.

EXT. TATTOO SHOP -- DAY

Several low-rider cars are parked on the street.    Raphael and Hector

are with several GANG MEMBERS.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- DAY

Sami is recording something on a tape deck Marcel bough. He sees

Marcel outside on the balcony and removes a piece of paper from

his pocket, then picks up the phone and dials.

INT. CAR RENTAL AGENCY -- DAY

The Rental Agent walks back over to Raymond and Julien.

The Rental Agent's eyes drift to a black Lincoln Town Car parked

across the street.

EXT. STREET, ACROSS FROM CAR RENTAL AGENCY -- DAY

A Lincoln pulls up. Zammito gets out and walks over to three

WISEGUYS in another Town Car. One of the Wiseguys points to the

window of the rental agency. Zammito looks at Raymond and Julien.

Zammito walks back to his car and drives off.

EXT. CAR RENTAL LOT -- DAY

An EMPLOYEE drives up in a CADILLAC DE VILLE.   He gets out and

Julien grabs the keys from him.

Raymond nods and gets in the passenger seat.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

The Cadillac moves down the street.   The Lincoln follows a few

cars behind them.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Julien drives the car.

EXT. GRANT PARK -- DAY

Agent Hadley walks towards the statue wearing a pair of sun glasses.

As he approaches, Sami steps out.

Hadley pushes him up against the statue and starts frisking him.

Sami lifts up his shirt showing Hadley his bare chest.   He drops

his pants down to his ankles.

Sami is stunned, then his thoughts snap back to...

INT. BAY VIEW MOTEL ROOM -- MORNING (FLASHBACK)

Sami picking up the brass lamp off the nightstand and leaving his

fingerprints all over it.

EXT. GRANT PARK -- DAY

Sami stares angrily at Hadley who appears to be enjoying his

frustration.

Sami stares at him a long moment.

Hadley hands him a card.

Hadley leaves.

EXT. GRAND AVENUE -- DAY

Julien drives the Cadillac along the North River.   The Lincoln

keeps pace with them several cars behind.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Raymond clicks through a few Radio Stations.   Julien glances in

his rear view mirror.

HIS POV - IN THE MIRROR:   of the Lincoln several cars back.

Julien seems concerned.    He turns the steering wheel hard to the

right.

EXT. GRAND AVENUE -- DAY

The Cadillac cuts across the right lane almost hitting a car and

turns onto another street. The Lincoln makes a sharp move to stay

up with it.

INT. CADILLAC -- DAY

Raymond looks over at Julien.

Julien hits the gas.

EXT. WELL STREET -- DAY

The Cadillac speeds down the street, weaving in and out of traffic.

The Lincoln does the same. The Cadillac reaches an intersection.

The traffic ahead of them is stopped for a red light. The Cadillac

veers onto the sidewalk. Pedestrians jump out of the way and the

car streaks down the pavement. Behind the Lincoln follows.

EXT. OHIO STREET -- DAY

The Cadillac screeches around the corner, onto a ONE WAY STREET.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Julien concentrates as he weaves the car in and out of the on coming

traffic.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

The oncoming traffic veers off. Cars collide. The Lincoln clips

a car, loses control for a moment, then continues after them. At

the corner the Cadillac turns onto another street and joins traffic

in the right direction.

EXT. FRANKLIN STREET -- DAY

The Lincoln moves up along side the Cadillac. Two WISEGUYS lean

out the window with guns in their hands. The Cadillac veers away

just as they start shooting. Bullets riddle the car.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Raymond removes Hadley's backup gun. The Lincoln pulls up beside

them again. The sound of GUN FIRE fills the air as Raymond shoots

from the Cadillac. The rear passenger window of the Lincoln

shatters and Raymond fires. The Lincoln drops back.

EXT. HUBBARD STREET -- DAY

The Cadillac turns the corner. The Lincoln follows. The traffic

is heavier here. The cars have to slow down. The Lincoln moves

beside them again. Raymond fires his last shot. His gun his now

empty. Several rounds of gun fire come from the Lincoln.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Raymond looks over to Julien.

His voice trails off as he sees Julien. A bullet has glanced his

neck, not deep, but deep enough to sever an artery. Blood pours

down his neck and covers his shirt. His face is pale. He glances

at the wound in the rear view mirror.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Julien steers the caddy onto another street.   The towncar follows.

INT. CADILLAC -- MOVING -- DAY

Julien looks at Raymond. He is paler now, his shirt completely

covered with blood. He strains to stay conscious.

Raymond knows he's right.   The car races into the next turn.

Raymond opens the door.

He jumps out.

INT. LINCOLN - DRIVER'S POV -- DAY

Of Raymond as he rolls towards the curb.    The Caddy skids around

the corner.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

The Lincoln slams on it's brakes in the middle of an intersection.

Raymond is dazed from his fall. He gets up slowly, his pants torn

and sees..

P.O.V. RAYMOND OF THE TOWNCAR -- DAY

The driver is reaching out the window with his gun to take aim and

is just about to shoot when...

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Julien comes racing into the intersection full speed and smashes

into the Lincoln. The impact sends the Lincoln spinning around.

When it stops the driver's window is facing the front of the caddy.

The driver of the caddy takes aim and fires.   The bullet goes

through the windshield and kills Julien.

The driver looks over at the passenger just in time to see...

P.O.V. A LARGE TRUCK -- DAY

Speeds through the intersection and smashes head on into the

Lincoln. It crumbles like a toy under the weight.

EXT. STREET -- DAY

Raymond limps into the street oblivious to the oncoming traffic.

He stares sadly at Julien.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- AFTERNOON

Zero and Marcel are checking over the guns. Daniel writes some

notes on a pad of paper. Sami appears nervous as he sits off to

the side.

The door opens. Raymond limps into the room. His face is dirty,

bruised, his pants torn, legs scraped. He stands there, staring

at them through empty eyes.

Daniel looks at the door expectantly.   He knows the answer before

he asks the question.

Raymond's face fills with sadness.   He shakes his.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE-- LATER -- DUSK

There is a cold silence in the room. Daniel stares at the sliding

glass door, staring out over the city.

He looks at them sadly.

Everyone looks to Zero.

INT. AGENT HADLEY'S APARTMENT -- EVENING

Agent Hadley sits on his couch, deep in thought. He glances at

the paper with Raymond's phone number on the coffee table. A beat.

He gets an idea. He picks up his phone and dials.

EXT. HUBBARD STREET -- EVENING

Tow trucks and cleaning crews work around wreckage of the cars.

Only a few POLICE CARS are there.

A UNIFORMED COP looks over and sees Joey "Two Tons" on the sidewalk.

Joey motions with his head to an alley.

EXT. ALLEY -- EVENING

The Uniformed Cop enters the alley and joins Joey.

This sparks Joey's interest.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

The crew sits around a table trying to figure out how they can get

out of town.

Sami opens a pack of cigarettes to find it's empty.

INT. RESTAURANT -- EVENING

Because of the early hour the room is empty. Raphael and Hector

are with FREDDY O, 30's, hard-looking. He is wearing a bus boy

uniform as he sets the tables.

Raphael and Hector exit.    We move with them through the door into...

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL LOBBY -- EVENING

Raphael and Hector head for the front door. The elevator doors

opens and Sami exits. They walk past each other as Sami heads

across the lobby and into the gift shop. As Raphael and Hector

walk out the front door Agent Hadley steps in walks past them. He

goes over to a WOMAN CLERK at the front desk.

She walks over to the HOTEL MANAGER and points to Agent Hadley.

The Manager walks over.

Agent Hadley shows him his badge.

Agent Hadley follows the manager as they walks towards the elevators

and pass... Sami who pretends to read a magazine, covering his

face so Hadley will not see him. Sami walks quickly across the

lobby and passes...

Joey "Two Tons", Nicky "The Rake" and three other WISEGUYS enter

the hotel. Agent Hadley gets in an elevator with the Hotel Manager.

The doors close as the wiseguys approach.

The moment the doors close Sami bolts into the lobby and over to

the house phones. All of them are being used except one. A MAN

is just about to lift the receiver when Sami pushes him aside.

Sami ignores him as he waits for the hotel operator to answer.

The phone just rings and rings.

Behind him another elevator has arrived and the wiseguys enter.

Sami's frustration is growing as the phone continues to ring.    The

Man who Sami pushed away is still there.

Sami quickly smacks him on the head with the receiver.   The man

slinks away.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

The phone rings.

INT. ELEVATOR -- EVENING

The wiseguys watch the floor indicator.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

The phone continues RINGING.

Daniel looks at Raymond and sighs, then gets up and lifts he

receiver.

Daniel slams down the phone.    The others can see the urgency on

his face.

Daniel grabs the canvas bag.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- HALLWAY -- EVENING

The manager is about to open the door with his key.   Agent Hadley

takes it and removes a gun.

The manager runs away. Agent Hadley inserts the key and opens the

door. His face fills with fear as he sees...

AGENT HADLEY'S POV -- Daniel, Marcel, Raymond and Zero are on the

other side, their guns pointed at Hadley's head.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE - BATHROOM -- EVENING

Daniel uses Hadley's handcuffs and handcuffs him to a pipe under

the sink.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- HALLWAY -- EVENING

Daniel, Raymond, Marcel and Zero step into the hall. The moment

they do the elevator doors at the end of the hall open. The

Wiseguys step out and see them.

The door to the room next to theirs opens and a LITTLE GIRL, 8,

dressed in a pink dress steps out.

Everything seems to move in slow motion.

--   The Wiseguys go for their guns.

--   The crew goes for theirs.

--   The little girl is caught between both groups.

--   Marcel lunges forward, tackling the girl to ground.

--   The Wiseguys begin to shoot.

--   The hallway fills with gunfire.

--   Marcel pulls the little girl into her room.

--   Plaster explodes off the walls as bullets rip through them.

--   The Crew rushes back into their suite.

INT. LITTLE GIRL'S ROOM -- EVENING

Marcel hands the frightened girl to her mother, then moves over to

the door that joins with the crews. He shoots the lock and moves

through the door.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- EVENING

As Marcel steps through he sees the crew all aiming their guns at

him. Daniel gets an idea. As Zero holds off the Wiseguys from

the doorway, Daniel goes to the adjoining door on the other side

of the suite. He shoots off the lock.

The Crew moves through the door.

INT. ADJOINING MOTEL ROOM -- EVENING

Empty. The crew runs across to the door. Because the room is

built at the intersection of two hallways the crew step out into a

corridor out of the Wiseguys line of sight.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- BACK HALLWAY -- EVENING

The Crew exits and heads for the staircase.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- FRONT HALLWAY -- CONTINUOUS

Silence. The Wiseguys move down the hall and stop outside the

door of the Crew's suite. A beat. They rush in.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL SUITE -- CONTINUOUS

Empty. Nicky "The Rake" sees the open adjoining door and motions

for them to follow him.

INT. HOLIDAY HOTEL -- BACK HALLWAY -- EVENING

The Wiseguys step out just as the Crew are going through the door

to the stairwell. The Wiseguys run after them. Joey "Two Tons"

lags behind.

INT. STAIRWELL -- EVENING

The Crew runs down the stairs. Above them the Wiseguys follow.

Joey "Two Tons" is breathing heavily as he runs down the stairs.

INT. UNDER GROUND PARKING LOT -- EVENING

The door flies open as the Crew runs across the lot.   Sami has

already started the Impala and is waiting for them.

A moment later the stairwell door opens and the Wiseguys run out,

guns blazing.

The Crew heads for the Impala, shooting behind them as they run.

Nicky "The Rake"" shoots.

Zero is hit in the leg. He falls to the ground, then rolls on his

side behind a parked car. He fights through the pain, props himself

up and begins to shoot back.

Two Wiseguys step out to flank Zero. Zero takes aim and shoots

one. He lines up on the other Wiseguy and pulls the trigger again.

Click! His gun his empty.

Daniel and Marcel run towards Zero, firing their guns as fast as

they can pull the trigger. Marcel takes aim and fires.

The Wiseguy's dive for cover as Marcel blazes away until his gun

is empty.

We hear tires screeching as the Impala backs up.

The Wiseguys shoot, blowing out the back window.     They move in on

Marcel and Zero.

Daniel runs forward with two guns firing at the wiseguys.     As he

nears Marcel he throws the extra gun to him.

SLOW MOTION :on the gun as it flies through the air.

SLOW MOTION: One of the WISEGUYS has almost circle around the car.

SLOW MOTION: on the gun has it flies through the air.

REAL TIME -- ON MARCEL: He looks to his left just as the gun

arrives. It hits him on the forehead and knocks him down.

Daniel fires a few SHOTS driving the Wiseguy back. He runs over

and with Marcel's help they grab Zero and help him to the car.

They dive into the back seat. The car screeches forward and races

out of the garage.

Silence. The staircase door opens and an exhausted Joey "Two Tons"

steps out, gasping for air.

INT. IMPALA -- MOVING -- EVENING

Daniel attends to the wound on Zero's leg.

Daniel stares at him.   A beat.     Zero grins, saying thank you.

INT. COFFEE SHOP -- EVENING

A distraught Raphael sits across from Hector in a booth near the

window. Hector has almost finished eating. Raphael hasn't touched

his food. He pushes his plate away.

Raphael lowers his head sadly.      Hector looks out the window.

HIS POV -- of the Impala driving by -- rear window missing, bumper

about to fall off.

Hector watches it go by, then turns back.     Raphael looks up.

EXT. COZY COURT COTTAGES -- EVENING

A group of small bungalows built adjacent to the interstate.

INT. COTTAGE -- EVENING

Small. Filled with cheap furniture. A small kitchenette is off

to the side of the room. Zero lays on the bed. Daniel uses his

belt as tourniquet to slow the bleeding. Raymond sits at the table

staring at the black canvas bag containing the cash and tapes.

Marcel is in the kitchenette.

Zero smiles. Sami enters carrying a shopping bag.      He places it

on the counter.

Sami removes the items from the bag. He opens the bottle and hands

it to Zero who quickly gulps down a few mouthfuls.

He winks at Sami.

Raymond cuts the pant leg away. Daniel walks over to Marcel who

is standing over the gas range. Over the flame is a tire wrench,

the metal tip glowing red hot. Sami opens the bag and removes

some white bread.

He removes a can of cheese whiz and sprays the cheese onto the

bread.

All the French guys look at him as though he is from another planet.

Sami stuffs his mouth with a big bite.

Daniel uses a towel to pick up the tire wrench and walks over to

the bed. Sami and Raymond grimace as they think about what's about

to happen.

Zero nods. Daniel takes the bottle of Vodka and pours some over

the wound. Zero flinches. Daniel looks at Marcel, then releases

the belt. Blood flows from the wound. Marcel presses the hot

poker against the wound. Zero grunts, but does not scream. His

face contorts violently from the pain.

INT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- EVENING

Zammito sits at a table in the back eating an assortment of pasta.

DEAN MARTIN "Innamaraia" plays on the stereo. EDDIE, 60's,

arthritic, finishes making an espresso. He starts carrying it

over to Zammito, moving incredibly slow, shuffling one foot in

front of the other. Zammito watches him with strained patience.

Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The Rake" enter. Their faces tell the

story.

Zammito scoops up a handful of pasta out of his plate and throws

it at him.

Joey "Two Tons" looks down sheepishly, several pieces of pasta are

stuck to his face. Zammito walks over to him.

They turn around and leave.       Zammito stares after them angrily.

He looks over at Eddie who is only half way to the table.

INT. COTTAGE -- MORNING

Zero is passed out, a half empty Vodka bottle on the nightstand.

The others have been up all night. Raymond is across the table

from Sami.

Sami realizes that Raymond wants to talk about something...

anything... that will get his mind of the events that have lead

them here.

Raymond forces a weak smile. Daniel who has been watching them

grabs a few things off the table.

Daniel looks at Sami and motions for him to come outside.

EXT. COTTAGE -- MORNING

Sami steps outside.   Daniel is staring at him.

EXT. BONANNO'S HOUSE -- MORNING

Daniel walks up to the front door and rings the bell.   Half Tooth

Tony opens the door and looks him up and down.

INT. BONANNO'S FOYER -- MORNING

Half Tooth Tony searches Daniel. He finds a small cassette player,

glances at it and sticks it back in Daniel's pocket.

INT. BONANNO'S LIVING ROOM -- MORNING

Daniel enters. Half Tooth Tony stands behind him, his eyes locked

on Daniel's every move. Bonanno is sitting in an armchair.

Bonanno looks to Half Tooth Tony.

Bonanno nods.   Daniel removes the cassette player and turns it on.

Daniel turns off the tape.   Bonanno's anger is visible.

Daniel nods.

Daniel grins.   He isn't going to tell him.

INT. COTTAGE -- MORNING

Zero and Raymond are sleeping. We hear the shower running in the

bathroom. Sami is at the table. The black canvas bag containing

the tapes is on the table. Sami removes the identical canvas bag

he bought at the store from under the bed and places it on the

table. He takes the original and leaves.

EXT. COZY COURTS -- MORNING

Sami removes the card Hadley gave him, takes out his cell phone

and dials. A taxi pulls up.

Sami gets in the taxi and it drives away.     A beat.   A moment later

another taxi pulls up. Daniel gets out.

INT. COTTAGE -- MORNING

Daniel enters to find Zero and Raymond still sleeping. He looks

at the black canvas bag on the table. Marcel steps out of the

bathroom wrapped in a towel.

EXT. GRANT PARK -- MORNING

Hadley is waiting by the statue holding a cardboard box.     Sami

walks towards him holding the black canvas bag.

Sami holds up the canvas bag.

Hadley opens the cardboard box to reveal the bloody lamp base.

Sami hands him the canvas bag.

Hadley removes a small cassette player from his jacket.    He picks

a tape and inserts it into the player.

Hadley stops the tape.   He inserts another one.

Hadley grins.   This is great stuff.   He looks up at Sami.

Sami grabs the box and leaves. Hadley starts whistling a tune and

walks off the other way. As he reaches the tree line Lamar pops

out with two of his friends. All of them have guns.

One of Lamar's guys searches through Hadley's pockets, finds his

gun, then takes his wallet.

Hadley stares at Lamar defiantly. Lamar cocks the hammer back on

his gun and presses the barrel to Hadley's forehead. Hadley drops

the canvas bag.

Lamar picks up the canvas bag and runs away. Hadley stands there

fuming. Lamar runs towards the statue and disappears behind it.

ANGLE -- BEHIND THE STATUE

Daniel is waiting, holding the other black canvas bag.   As Lamar

passes they quickly exchange bags.

From Hadley's point of view Lamar has merely run behind the statue

as he heads for the street. Lamar runs a few more steps, then

stumbles and falls... several cassette tapes spill out of it.

Lamar's buddies are already at the street.

Lamar gets up, looks at the bag, pretends to be panicked.   He runs

off leaving the bag laying on the grass.

ON HADLEY: He can't believe his luck. He runs over, picks up the

loose cassettes and puts them back in the bag, then leaves.

ON DANIEL: he peers out from behind the fountain, watching as

Hadley walks off in the other direction.

EXT. STREET CORNER -- MORNING

Daniel arrives to find Sami and Lamar.

Daniel grins and pats him on the back.

Lamar is about to protest when Daniel takes out a roll of bills.

INT. TAXI -- MOVING -- DAY

Daniel and Sami sit in the back.   Daniel is on his cell phone.

INT. FBI HEADQUARTERS -- DAY

Hadley enters with the black canvas bag.    The RECEPTIONIST hands

him a package.

INT. HADLEY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Hadley opens the package and finds a video cassette. Hadley pops

the cassette into the VCR. On the screen we see Sami speaking

into a video camera.

On the television screen we see Hadley and Sami in the park on

their first meeting.

The color drains from Hadley's face.   Sami reappears, talking into

the camera again.

The tape turns to static. Hadley tries to think. He takes the

VHS tape from the machine, then picks up his phone and starts to

dial a number. A beat. He thinks better of it, hangs up and uses

his cell phone.

INT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- DAY

Eddie is on the phone.   Zammito is at his usual table.

Zammito springs out of his seat and grabs the phone.

EXT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- DAY

Zammito and Joey "Two Tons" rush to the car carrying a briefcase.

EXT. VINNY ZAMMITO'S HOUSE -- DAY

Raymond knocks on the door.   Vinny answers it, his arm in sling.

Vinny looks on the street and sees the Impala.

EXT.   MERCHANT STREET WAREHOUSE -- DAY

An old building, dirty windows and peeling paint.       The main door

is open.

INT. MERCHANT STREET WAREHOUSE -- DAY

Zammito and Joey "Two Tons" are standing next to Zammito's Lincoln.

Hadley parks ten yards away and gets out with the black canvas

bag.

Hadley starts to place the canvas bag on the hood of Zammito's

car.

Hadley opens the bag.     It is filled with cassette tapes.

Zammito nods to Joey "Two Tons" who opens another briefcase filled

with cash.

Hadley starts to go.     Zammito motions him to stop.

Zammito picks a tape and tosses it to Joey "Two Tons." Who puts

the cassette into the cars cassette player. Suddenly we hear Wayne

Newton singing "Danke Schoen."

Hadley's face turns white.     He produces an audible gulp as he looks

at Zammito weakly.

EXT. MERCHANT STREET WAREHOUSE -- CONTINUOUS

The music continues as we hold on a wide shot of the building.

Through the dirty windows we see several flashes as the air fills

with gunfire.

Zammito's Lincoln pulls out of the warehouse and drives down the

street.

INT. LINCOLN -- MOVING -- AFTERNOON

Music continues in the cassette deck.   Joey "Two Tons" drives.

Zammito sits in the passenger seat.

EXT. PRIVATE AIRPORT -- AFTERNOON

Sami, Marcel and Raymond help Zero out of the taxi and towards a

small plane. Off to the side Bonanno is standing with Half Tooth

Tony. Daniel walks over to him.

Daniel hands him the cassette case with half the tapes. Bonanno

hands it to Half Tooth Tony who takes them into the car and listens

to a tape.

EXT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- AFTERNOON

The Lincoln pulls up. Zammito and Joey "Two Tons" get out.   Vinny

is waiting beside the Impala.

Vinny starts to walk away.

EXT. MEXICAN RESTAURANT -- AFTERNOON

A gang hang out. Raphael is with several hard-looking gang-bangers.

Lamar arrives with two of his friends.

EXT. GANG HANGOUT -- AFTERNOON

Several Gang Bangers stand around their low rider cars. Sananta's

"Oye Como Va" plays loudly on one of the radios. Raphael talks

heatedly with several of the gang bangers.

A SERIES OF QUICK CUTS

Music continues as several gang members check their guns.

EXT. STREET -- AFTERNOON

The Santana song continues as several car loads of Gang Bangers

drive down the street.

INT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- AFTERNOON

The air is thick with cigar smoke. Several GUMBAS hang around the

bar. Zammito is at his table with Joey "Two Tons" and Nicky "The

Rake." DEAN MARTIN "Return To me" plays on the jukebox.

Outside we hear the sound of cars pulling up and screeching to a

stop. The door opens and Raphael and ten other very tough-looking

GANG MEMBERS step inside. The room falls silent, except for Dino

on the jukebox. Zammito stands up.

They are right on the edge of having a major disaster. The Dean

Martin song ends. Dead quiet. Each group watches the other to

see who's going to make the first move.

The jukebox selects another record. The needle scratches against

the vinyl intro. We hear the intro to JERRY VALE singing "Amore

Scusami".

SERIES OF QUICK CUTS

--   Raphael's eyes burn into Zammito's

--   A Gang-Bangers eyes dart from side to side.

--   A Wiseguy bites his lip.

--   Nicky "The Rake" twitches his fingers nervously.

--   Sweat glistens on the forehead of Joey "Two Tons".

At the bar Eddie reaches behind for something without looking. He

knocks over a bottle. It falls to the floor and breaks. The noise

is enough to push things over the edge.

Raphael goes for his gun.   All hell breaks loose! People dive for

cover as shots rings out.   In the close quarters it's like shooting

fish in a barrel.

Eddie lifts a shotgun from behind the bar and blows away a gang

member. Another gang member kills him.

It's a massacre! Bodies drop like flies. The room is so thick

with smoke you can't see two feet in front of you. Finally it is

quiet.

We move through the room, past the carnage. Smoke swirls, blood

covers the floor. Raphael is dead. Along with Joey "Two Tons"

and Nicky "The Rake" On the floor, Zammito is against the bar.

He sits up, amazed that he is untouched. He gets to his feet and

makes his way to the front door.

EXT. SOUTH SIDE SOCIAL CLUB -- AFTERNOON

Music continues. Zammito staggers outside and into the street.

He laughs, a nervous laugh at his good fortune.

Zammito turns around to see

ZAMMITO'S POV -- A Lincoln Town car speeding towards him. Through

the windshield he can see the smiling face of Half Tooth Tony.

The front of the car slams into Zammito, lifting him into the air.

He flips head over heals then smashes into the windshield and over

the car. He lays in the middle of the street, dead.

The Lincoln speeds off down the street.

INT. BONANNO'S HOUSE -- AFTERNOON

Music continues. Bonanno sits on his couch, eating a cannoli as

he watches Judge Judy on television..

INT. MERCHANT STREET WAREHOUSE -- AFTERNOON

Music continues. Agent Hadley is leaning against his car, his

eyes open, a large bullet hole in his head.

INT. SOPHIE'S WAREHOUSE -- AFTERNOON

Music continues. Wayne is sitting on the couch, an open package

on the coffee table. He smiles as he stares at the stacks of cash

the crew took from Zammito.

INT. PLANE -- MOVING -- AFTERNOON

Music continues.    The crew sits quietly.

EXT. PLANE -- MOVING -- AFTERNOON

Jerry Vale continues singing as the plane glides through a clear

blue sky. Music fades.

EXT. BASTALDI'S'S WAREHOUSE -- PARIS -- MORNING

Bastaldi steps outside into the crisp morning air.    He takes a few

steps, then stops.

BASTALDI POV -- across the street, standing side by side are Daniel,

Sami, Raymond, Marcel and Zero. They look like a ragged bunch,

tired, dirty. We PAN across the faces of each one of them as they

stare at Bastaldi.

A BUS goes by blocking Bastaldi's view of the boys.   When it passes

the crew it gone!

Bastaldi bites his lip nervously.    Bastaldi looks around, but there

is no sign of them.

A DIFFERENT ANGLE

We can see the five of them crouched behind a parked car. Marcel

peers through the window at Bastaldi who is still trying to figure

out where they went. They are all amused with Bastaldi's

bewilderment.

Finally, Bastaldi turns around and goes back into his apartment.

INT. BASTALDI'S WAREHOUSE -- DAY

Bastaldi is at his desk, nervously tapping his fingers on the

surface. The phone rings. He knows who is calling. He stares at

the phone for a long moment, then he slowly lifts the receiver.

The line goes dead.

EXT. HOUSEBOAT -- AFTERNOON

Bastaldi drives up.    He gets out carrying a suitcase and nervously

walks to the boat.

INT. HOUSEBOAT -- AFTERNOON

Bastaldi enters. No one appears to be there.    Bastaldi's cell

phone rings. He answers it.

EXT. OTHER SIDE OF RIVER -- CONTINUOUS

Daniel, Sami and Zero watch the houseboat.   Daniel continues his

conversation on the cell phone.

DANIEL'S POV: Bastaldi appears on deck. He puts the suitcase in

the rowboat and unties it. It drifts slowly into the current.

EXT. DOWN RIVER -- AFTERNOON

The rowboat hugs the shore, moving slowly down the river. Marcel

is on the shore with Raymond. Raymond reaches out with a long

pole and pulls the boat to shore. Marcel opens the case. Inside

are several stacks of five hundred franc notes. Marcel looks to

Raymond with a grin and nods. Raymond opens his cell phone.

EXT. OTHER SIDE OF RIVER -- CONTINUOUS

Daniel, Sami and Zero continue to watch the houseboat.   Sami's

cell phone rings. He answers it and listens.

Sami nods to Daniel.

EXT. HOUSEBOAT -- AFTERNOON

Bastaldi's cell phone rings.   He answers it.

The line goes dead.

INT. HOUSEBOAT -- AFTERNOON

Bastaldi enters, looks around the room until he sees the wooden

chest. He walks over and opens it. Inside there are several

cassette tapes in the cardboard box.

Bastaldi grins and lifts the cardboard box out of the chest. He

hears a CLICK. He notices something is attached to the bottom of

the cardboard box. It's a long thin wire that has pulled the pin

on an electronic device.

EXT. ACROSS THE RIVER -- CONTINUOUS

Daniel is now holding small, black device. A yellow light starts

flashing. He puts his finger on a red button.

He presses the button.

INT. HOUSEBOAT -- CONTINUOUS

A digital counter begins counting backwards. Bastaldi realizes

that the device is a BOMB. He stares at the numbers quickly speed

by 8... 7... 6... 5...

EXT. HOUSEBOAT -- FIVE SECONDS LATER

The houseboat explodes in a brilliant fireball, sending pieces of

wood and metal flying into the air. A thick plume of black smoke

swirls in the wind.

EXT. ACROSS THE RIVER -- AFTERNOON

Daniel, Raymond, Sami, Raymond, Marcel and Zero watch the smoldering

wreckage. Their blank faces show no emotion -- just a sense that

justice has been done.

Raymond opens the suitcase and looks inside. As he peels through

the stacks of money we see that only the top bill of each stack is

real -- underneath them all is white paper, cut to the same size

as the bills. Everyone turns to Marcel.

EXT. BRIDGE -- AFTERNOON

The five of them walk across the bridge.

No one answers him. Sami reaches inside the black canvas bag and

removes the autographed baseball Marcel took from Zammito.

Sami throws the baseball back in the canvas bag.

Raymond's anger takes everyone by surprise.     Even Raymond is

surprised by his outburst.

Marcel tries to take the ball out of the bag. Sami pulls it away.

Marcel grabs the bag. Both of them tug on it. Marcel pulls hard

and the bag rips down the seam. The baseball falls out and rolls

off the bridge into the river.

Marcel stands there holding the inside liner of the bag.

Sami throws the canvas bag to the ground in frustration.

Something catches Daniel's attention.

DANIEL'S POV -- of the black canvas. The lining has been ripped

away. A light breeze blows lifting the underside of the black

canvas. There is a flash of color. Another gust of wind turns

the black canvas over. On the other side is Van Gogh's "Vase with

twelve sunflowers".

Daniel's jaw drops.   The others notice his stunned expression and

follow his stare.

THEIR POV -- of the priceless painting.

They stand there, too shocked to move at first, then rush forward.

They have almost reached the painting when a truck passes them.

The wind kicks up the painting, blowing it over the railing. They

reach out to grab it, but it is too far away. They stand there,

watching as it slowly floats down to the river below.

EXT. BRIDGE -- WIDE SHOT -- AFTERNOON

They look at one an other, then without speaking a word they all

jump off the bridge. As they fall towards the water we...

