The Descendants          PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants          PINK Shooting Draft      4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants           PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants          PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Scottie pushes back from the table and takes off toward the

pool. Matt follows, not even gracing Troy with a final look.

Matt catches up to Scottie.

As Matt and Scottie head toward the exit, Scottie FLIPS OFF a

crestfallen Troy.

A Hawaiian Airlines inter-island airplane takes off.

A DOTTED LINE goes from Honolulu to Kona.

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants             PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft     4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants          PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants       PINK Shooting Draft    4/11/10 Draft

Matt watches retired military man SCOTT THORSON (70s) mumble

as he sits at a table glancing over DOCUMENTS.

Sid is splayed out on a nearby lounge chair. Alex seated at

his feet. Every so often a PET PARROT squawks loudly.

He stares off into space.

The Descendants         PINK Shooting Draft    4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Matt thinks a moment, then --

Matt's car passes by the well-known crowded surf-point

overlook.

The car continues on.

The Descendants         PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants         PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants       PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants       PINK Shooting Draft    4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft      4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Alex looks at him -- authority?

Matt tosses and turns, gets up and goes to the bathroom.

MOMENTS LATER --

Exiting the bathroom, he decides he should make a routine

inspection and wanders into --

-- where he eyes a lump on the FOLD-OUT BED.       He creeps up

when Sid awakens.

A sheepish look on his face, Matt takes a seat on the edge of

the bed.

Matt can't believe what he just asked, but he's desperate for

clues from even the unlikeliest source.

Matt questions his sanity at having asked Sid any advice.

At first refusing to fall for it, Matt sees this is no prank.

Sid smiles and nods as though to make Matt feel better about

the sad news he just shared.

SUNRISE. Matt JOGS along the nearly empty beach -- just a

few surf FISHERMAN and PADDLERS. He's clearly out of shape

but makes a good effort.

ANOTHER GUY jogs toward Matt wearing a "Stanford Lacrosse" T-

shirt and running shorts with long slits up the sides.

BRIAN SPEER!

They pass each other. Matt continues on a moment in

disbelief, then TURNS AROUND and follows. His strides long

and efficient, Brian gives Matt a run for his money.

Soon Brian cuts up the beach toward one of the COTTAGES that

line the bay. Matt follows, awkwardly trying to appear

nonchalant.

Brian disappears up a little PATH through a HEDGE.          Matt

quickens his pace toward --

-- where he spies on Brian walking across a wide lawn toward

a lovely OLD COTTAGE.

Brian disappears inside, emerging moments later chugging

GATORADE.

Courage gathered, Matt is about to charge forward when he

stops short -- the door opens again, and out comes a

beautiful WOMAN in a white bathing suit and white sun hat.

Then two LITTLE BOYS.

Fucker's got a family.      Not the right moment.

The sun is higher, and the BEACH is growing populated.

Matt sits on the sand, glancing occasionally back toward the

cottage. Next to him lie his daughters and Sid.

Suddenly TWO BOYS -- Brian's kids -- come running through the

hedge and past Matt on their way into the water.

Matt turns around to see Brian's wife JULIE SPEER dutifully

trailing behind.

Matt watches the little boys flop into the surf.        Mrs. Speer

follows, wading in up to her calves.

Matt stands to look whether Brian is coming down to the beach

too. No such luck.

Matt gets to his feet, brushes off sand, and walks casually

toward Mrs. Speer, maintaining a comfortable distance.

Alexandra watches.

IN THE SURF --

Matt takes up a casual stance near Mrs. Speer and pretends to

look out at the water, just hanging out. Mrs. Speer

continues to keep a watchful eye on her boisterous boys.

Does Julie recognize any of this, or even recognize him?

Doesn't seem like it.

She's actually sort of charming, this Julie Speer.

That hangs there a moment.      Matt suppresses the sudden desire

to spill the beans.

Matt looks over to see Scottie very agitated about something.

Matt trots off.

Images of Hanalei as the sun begins to set over the

magnificent taro fields. Wind rustles the trees. Mist falls

into the valley.

Our friends walk along roadside tourist shops toward --

A lived-in hangout with a wood interior, woven mats on the

walls, and tables carved into with steak knives. A UKULELE

CLUB jams in a corner.

As our foursome enter the joint, Matt notices --

COUSIN HUGH

yucking it up at the BAR with other REGULARS.

AT THE BAR --

Matt wedges his way in beside his third cousin, who despite

his booziness and very local flavor is nonetheless a King

family patriarch.

He looks over his shoulder to see whom Matt might have come

in with.

It takes a moment for this stone to drop to the bottom of

Matt's well.

Cousin Hugh's eyes emerge momentarily from their drunken fog

to give Matt a firm, steely warning.

TRACK TO THE TABLE

firmly on MATT'S FACE as he processes this horrifying news

delivered so casually.

AT THE TABLE --

Matt takes a seat. Scottie and Sid eat fried appetizers.

Alexandra just sits watching the musicians.

The music grows more frenetic.

Matt looks around the room, alienated from everything -- from

the fried food and the tourists, from the umbrellas in the

drinks, from his daughters enjoying the music and this cretin

called Sid.

Why can't a nuclear bomb blow the whole island up right now?

The light is swiftly fading, and our heroes are little more

than SILHOUETTES as they walk back to the hotel.

Sid and Scottie talk and laugh together.      Alex walks with her

father.

Alexandra quietly exults.

Just as they are round the house toward the lanai, Julie

Speer backs out of the screen door with a plate of hamburger

patties. Alex nudges Matt.

The screen door slams.       Julie looks over.

As Alex and Matt agree, a figure appears at the screen door.

BRIAN SPEER emerges, a bag of BUNS in one hand.

Brian's big GRIN WILTS.

Matt nudges Alexandra, who suddenly remembers her duty.

Alex is glad to keep her ringside seat for the moment.       All

buckle their mental seatbelts.

As they've plotted, Alex and Matt study Brian's paralyzed

face. They exchange a glance, then look back at him.

Brian seems deeply lost in his own thoughts.     Then --

Julie returns with wine for Matt and a soda for Alex.

They all stand there a moment. Matt's unsure how to play

this out. He shoots a quick panicked look at Alex, who

scrambles to keep the ball rolling.

Matt walks up to the door, making a point to let Brian open

it for him.

Brian sweeps his hand around the room.

For a moment Brian looks tricked, as if Matt really did just

want a tour of the house.

Brian drops his head, rubs his temples.

Brian nods slightly.

Brian looks down.

Matt's face slackens into overwhelming sadness.

Matt swings the screen door open. Alex sits with Julie.

Skylar and Colt are still running around the yard.

After Alex and Julie share a quick kiss goodbye -- a common

custom in Hawaii -- Julie turns to Matt.

Matt leans in, but instead of going for her cheek, he kisses

her FULLY ON THE LIPS.

He pulls away, and they exchange a brief, vaguely erotic

look. Then he turns away and into the night.

The plane is dark except for overhead READING LIGHTS. Again

Matt, Sid and the girls sit at the very BACK OF THE PLANE.

Sid leans forward from the middle seat.

They turn to look at little Scottie, dead to the world in the

window seat.

Matt and the kids walk slowly through this different, calmer

wing of the hospital looking for the right room-number.

Finally they find it and push open the door into --

While still a hospital room, there is no medical equipment

present. Bucolic colorful paintings on the wall are intended

to be uplifting. But unlike the expansive view outside

Elizabeth's ICU window, here the window looks out partially

at a CINDER-BLOCK WALL.

Sid and the Kings are greeted by DR. JOHNSTON and grief

counselor DR. HERMAN, who affects a comforting smile.

The two professionals allow the Kings to turn their attention

to Elizabeth, who now lies with no machines at all. Around

her BALLOONS droop, FLOWERS wilt, get-well CARDS lie in a

pile. Elizabeth too is wilting and drooping. Her skin is

pasty, and her cheeks are hollow.

The adults exchange glances.     Dr. Herman approaches Scottie.

Dr. Herman hands her a little squeaky RUBBER OCTOPUS she

pulls from her pocket.

Dr. Herman shoots a look at Matt before continuing.

All watch Scottie react to this news.

Dr. Herman looks at everyone with great sincerity before

leaving. Scottie is left holding the octopus. She drops it,

and it squeaks a little.

Dr. Johnston looks to Matt for this one.

Scottie looks at her mother, picturing her as ashes.

The doctor leaves, and the room is quiet.        Scottie is in a

sort of trance.

Scottie goes to her sister, who takes her in her arms.

Matt and the kids sit in a sort of vigil. Alex and Scottie

read books, Matt has brought some paperwork, Sid reads a

magazine.

Elizabeth emits a SIGH.      All look up a moment before looking

back down.

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft    4/11/10 Draft

Matt's PHONE VIBRATES.    Checking the caller ID -- HUGH KING --

he opts not to answer.

The door opens, and Elizabeth's brother BARRY THORSON

accompanies his parents Scott and Alice into the room.

Cheerful Alice doesn't really get what's going on.            An

emotional Barry hugs Matt and the girls.

Matt and Alex maneuver seats for the Thorsons to sit near the

bed. Barry gets his mother situated, then takes a seat

himself.

Remaining on his feet, old Scott surveys his daughter from a

distance.

Even Sid and his daughters perk up at this question.           Matt is

taken aback.

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Matt looks to Barry for help, but Barry's silence and

sheepish look imply he buys into his father's propaganda.

Why fight it?

Scott turns to Sid like he's about to pop him again.

His point made, Scott looks at Matt and the girls and

shuffles to Elizabeth's bedside, puts his hands on Alice's

shoulder.

Matt, Sid and the girls quietly go into --

-- where they take a few steps away.

Scottie has stayed behind to peek through a crack in the

door. Noticing, the others join her.

THROUGH THE DOOR --

As Barry and Alice remain seated, their backs to us, Scott

stands above his daughter, touching her arm, eyes closed.

The old man puts his hand over his mouth and squeezes his

eyes shut. Then he opens his eyes and places a hand on her

forehead, smooths her hair back.

WIDE --

Matt and his daughters watch without moving.

Matt sits at his desk lost in thought. The only sound is the

tick-tock of an old clock reading 3:20. Then he gets up and

starts pacing, shooting occasional glances at the BLUEPRINTS

and RENDERINGS atop his desk.

Matt turns off the highway and into a long driveway.

Matt opens all front doors and lanai doors, letting air into

the old place. He notices old PHOTOS OF KING ANCESTORS.

Matt walks around the property alone, taking it in and

thinking. Like everywhere in Hawai'i, the nature here is

powerful -- TREES, BIRDS, SPIDERWEBS.

Matt plops heavily into a chair on the lanai.

WIDER --

Matt alone.

It's the same angle but now with FORTY KING COUSINS gathered

for the poll. We recognize some faces.

CLOSER --

Amid drinks held aloft, a CALABASH is passed among the

cousins into which the each places a folded BALLOT.

Matt sits watching the proceedings with Cousin Hugh, Cousin

Six and another ELDERLY COUSIN at a table piled with papers

and contracts.

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

LATER --

Matt, Hugh and Six FINISH THE COUNT while others mill about,

mingle, drink -- an early celebration for all except for a

group of DISSENTERS off to one side.

Hugh and Six exchange a concerned look.      For a moment we go

VERY CLOSE on Matt's eyes. Then --

The Descendants      PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Hugh tries forcing Matt's hand.   Matt resists.

Cousin Hugh draws a long breath, looks up at the sky, then

back at Matt.

Cousin Hugh releases a long breath more like a belch, quickly

picks his nose, exchanges a look with Cousin Six. Then he

brings his fingers to his mouth to WHISTLE.

Rising to his feet, Matt scans the faces of his relatives.

From the way Matt, Sid and the girls are positioned around

the room, we can tell their presence there is now way of

life. Scottie snoozes on the little sofa. We may notice

that Elizabeth is even more shrunken.

A KNOCK is followed by --

A VASE OF FLOWERS

appearing in the doorway, topped by blonde hair and held by

thin bronzed arms. It's JULIE SPEER.

He rises to help her find a spot to put the flowers.        She

nods to the girls.

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

As they now do often, Matt and Alex exchange a look.

The girls follow Sid's prompt, leaving Matt alone with Julie,

standing, a dying woman between them.

Wow.

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

Matt is unsure but what else can he do?   Julie approaches the

bed.

Matt walks to the door and opens it. Alex and Sid -- who've

clearly had their ears against the door -- scamper away,

unnoticed by Matt and Julie.

Julie heads to the door. At the door, she looks at Matt.

Matt looks at her. She leaves.

Matt is left alone with his wife, and he realizes suddenly

that this is his moment.

He walks to the bed, takes her hand, rubs his palm over her

hair. He says something to her as though silently praying,

then realizes he should say it aloud.

He presses his lips to hers and puts his hand on her stomach.

The door to Elizabeth's room opens, and Alexandra emerges, a

far-away sadness on her face. She walks slowly toward --

A NEARBY WAITING AREA

-- where Matt sits with Scottie and Sid. Matt and Sid rise

to comfort her, but she's not in the mood. She allows them

each to hug her briefly before turning to Scottie.

Signaling to Matt to let her do this, Alex escorts a fearful

Scottie toward Elizabeth's room, and, reassuring her, guides

her little sister inside.

Matt and Sid are left alone.

To be determined.

PADDLES

in the water.

A BOX ENCIRCLED BY LEIS

sits tied to the seat of a small outrigger CANOE.

MATT AND THE GIRLS

navigate the canoe through the surf.

The Descendants        PINK Shooting Draft     4/11/10 Draft

Matt and the girls simply FLOAT, glancing from time to time              *

at the urn in Scottie's lap. In the distance loom the hotels             *

and high-rises of Waikiki.                                               *

Scottie does so. Alexandra takes the box reverently -- she               *

wants to perform this sad, strange ceremony without messing              *

up.                                                                      *

She opens the box and pulls out a scoop of ashes, which                  *

Scottie looks at unblinking. Alex looks to Matt, who gives               *

her the go-ahead, and without further ceremony pours them                *

into the sea.                                                            *

THE ASHES                                                                *

fall densely in one spot, then slowly darken the water and               *

disappear.                                                               *

Alex looks down, struck by the weirdness of it all, before               *

glancing up at Matt.                                                     *

Alex passes the box and scooper to Scottie.                              *

Scottie looks at Alex and scoops out a pile, holds them at               *

eye-level, and pauses.                                                   *

A sad Scottie pours her scoop into the water.         All look down      *

as the ashes descend.                                                    *

The Descendants      PINK Shooting Draft     4/11/10 Draft

Now Matt takes his turn. He looks directly inside the urn at               *

the ashes that were once his wife.                                         *

ANGLE ON THE ASHES -- HIS POV                                              *

A complex series of emotions passes over his face -- love,                 *

grief, disappointment, resignation.                                        *

Without further ceremony he upends the BOX over the water and              *

pours the rest of Elizabeth into the ocean.                                *

All three take a long look as the mass of ashes disappears.                *

Matt takes off his LEI and places it into the water. The                   *

girls follow suit.                                                         *

WIDE ANGLE of the boat floating as the leis float away.                    *

Scottie lies on a sofa watching television, draped with the

QUILT that lay atop her mother's hospital bed. Matt comes

over with TWO DISHES, hands one to her.

Matt gets under the quilt with her. Moments later Alexandra

wanders in, notices what they're watching, sits next to Matt,

pulls the quilt over her legs.

The Descendants     PINK Shooting Draft   4/11/10 Draft

His eyes not leaving the TV, Matt hands Alex his ice cream.

As they sit there on the sofa, the CREDITS roll quietly over

them.

