No response.

EXT: SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

Gru steps toward camera, holding some sort of menacing gun,

which he loads and cocks. He pulls the trigger, which shoots

out an inflatable unicorn balloon.

Smiling, he ties it to the windowsill next to some others.

EXT: GRU'S BACKYARD - DAY

A banner reads: "Happy Birthday Agnes!" and a massive

backyard party is in full swing. The yard is decorated with

pink balloons and streamers, and a BOUNCY HOUSE shaped like a

castle.

AGNES and several other LITTLE GIRLS slide down a slide.

They are all dressed as princesses, but Agnes is dressed as a

princess riding a unicorn.

Edith, dressed as a ninja, emerges from beneath a table and

climbs across the monkey bars as a series of jousts, blades,

and boxing gloves come up from the ground underneath her.

She jumps down, narrowly avoiding a bear trap.

Two LITTLE GIRLS fish in a small kiddie pool. One of the

girls pulls up a toy duck and then razzes the other girl, but

then a LIVE PIRANHA jumps out and eats the toy duck.

A BOY and a GIRL sword fight. The Boy does a bunch of fancy

moves. The Girl waits for him to finish and then pounds him

on the head with a club.

Two kids in the background are on a see-saw made of bombs.

Agnes runs into the middle of the yard and points offscreen.

All of the kids turn and see KYLE dressed as a dragon. He

GRUMBLES and then they SCREAM and huddle around Agnes. Then

Margo enters wearing a SUIT OF ARMOR and wielding a SWORD.

She gestures to a group of minions wearing tiny suits of

armor and wielding various MEDIEVAL WEAPONS. The Kids CHEER

as the minions charge toward Kyle. One accidentally hits

another with his sword. A fight ensues in which they use the

medieval weapons on each other.

One minion pounds another with a MACE. One Minion wanders off

from the fight with his helmet on backwards, wildly swinging

his mace.

Across the yard, Gru is busy grilling burgers and talking on

the phone. Not happy.

The mace-swinging Minion walks by and accidently, repeatedly

hits Gru with the mace in the shin.

Gru kicks the minion's helmet and chases him off with a

spatula, sending him towards the party swinging his mace.

Gru SIGHS and returns to the call.

Gru hits the phone with his spatula and hangs up.    Turns and

sees Agnes standing there.

Gru stares down at Agnes' big excited eyes. He opens his

mouth to tell her the truth, but can't do it.

Agnes squeals with excitement and runs off.

Gru looks worried--what do I do now?    He signals two minions.

EXT: BACKYARD - LATER

A hand-painted piece of cardboard reading "THE MAGIC SHOW" is

placed on an easel. Agnes and all of the little kids sit in

a semicircle on the grass. Two minions dressed as magicians

are doing a magic act with Edith as their assistant. One

minion blows up a balloon and puts it in Edith's mouth. Then

the other whips out a CHAINSAW and fires it up, heading

toward her.

Margo sees this and quickly intervenes.

The minions don't hide their disappointment.

Margo suddenly looks around as if she just heard something.

Margo gasps and points up to the sky.

Edith spits out her magic balloon in horror and we follow it

up to reveal--

Gru. Dressed in a PUFFY PINK DRESS, fairy wings, glittery

eyelashes and tiara and magical wand.

Up on top of Gru's house, the minions struggle to lower him

down on a rope. Edith's balloon floats by and distracts

them.

They let go of the rope and Gru swings wildly, smashing into

the wall of the house and crashing to the ground.

He stands up and tries to cover.

Agnes SIGHS HAPPILY, in awe of the fairy princess.

Gru sprinkles the girls with glitter and they continue to

stare, frozen. Then a LITTLE GIRL raises her hand and speaks

with a lisp.

Gru grits his teeth, then forces a smile and speaks with a

high-pitched, dreamy voice.

The girl starts to ask another question.

Gru cuts her off with a puff of fairy dust to the face.   She

COUGHS.

As the kids run to the table, Agnes approaches Gru.

Gru smiles.

She runs off, but quickly returns.

She runs off again to join her friends. Gru watches her go.

Couldn't be happier. Then he is approached by JILLIAN, a

heavily-Botoxed mom.

In the background, a homely NATALIE leans against a buffet

table and seductively raises her eyebrows at Gru. The table

collapses to the ground beneath her.

In the background, Natalie inadvertently walks in front of a

bottle pitch game, is struck by a ball, and falls to the

ground.

Gru walks off, passing by Edith and Margo.

SPLASH!   Suddenly Jillian is sprayed in the face with water.

Reveal Gru holding a HOSE with a SPRAY NOZZLE.

SPLASH!   He sprays her again.    She falls down.

He drops the hose and walks away, CHUCKLING softly.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - DUSK

Gru takes Kyle out to the front yard.

CAMERA POV

A camera with nightvision is watching them. The screen

analyzes Kyle and a readout comes out as "SPECIES: UNKNOWN."

Kyle sniffs Gru's flowers.

Then it analyzes Gru and the readout says "TARGET ACQUIRED."

Kyle lifts up his leg next to Gru's flowers.

He picks Kyle up and places him next to his neighbor's bush.

Kyle does and the bush immediately withers and dies.         Gru

CHUCKLES.

Gru turns and sees Lucy Wilde standing there.

Gru whips out his FREEZE RAY and fires it.       A WALL OF ICE

heads for Lucy.

But before it gets to her, Lucy pulls out a retractable gun

from her purse, which acts as a FLAMETHROWER. Melting the

ice.

She pulls out a LIPSTICK. Fires it at Gru. The tip flies

through the air and connects with his chest, latching on.

ZZZZZAPPP! It tases him, which sends his body flailing in

different funny poses before passing out.

EXT: STREET - LATER

Lucy tries to drag Gru to her car, but he's too heavy.

She gets an idea.

Lucy gets into her car. In the background, we see Gru begin

to come to, but he is struck by Lucy's car as she pulls back

and is knocked out again.

Closer now, Lucy gets out and stuffs his body into the trunk.

Just then Tom and Stuart come out of Gru's garage and see

their boss being loaded in. Lucy struggles to close the

trunk.

SLAM! Lucy finally slams the trunk then quickly gets into

the vehicle.

Tom and Stuart exchange horrified looks.

They take off running after the car as it pulls away, running

as fast as their tiny legs will carry them. They get right

behind it and Tom LEAPS up onto the trunk. He reaches his

hand out to Stuart, who is falling behind.

Stuart leaps for the bumper and Tom catches him by his

overall straps. Tom holds on tight as Stuart dangles from

the back of the car, his overall straps stretching way out.

As Lucy turns a corner, he slams into some garbage cans and

ends up skiing behind the car in a cardboard box.

Now in the box, Stuart continues to ride behind the car, and

even starts to get the hang of that, too. He waves at Tom,

and Tom waves back.

All is good until they go past a clothesline and a sheet gets

stuck on Stuart.

The sheet forms a parasail which lifts Stuart up into the

air. He strikes a Superman flying pose. Then a flock of

GEESE fly toward him and one actually slams into his face.

It SQUAWKS at him as it flies off.

Lucy spots the commotion in her side view mirror and slams on

the brakes. SCREECH! Both minions fly forward--

INT: LUCY'S CAR - SAME

Lucy sees this, drives forward, and opens the convertible

top, causing the Minions to land right in the passenger's

seat. They strike threatening karate poses.

Lucy tases them and they pass out.       She floors it.

EXT: STREET - SAME

Lucy's car continues driving until it reaches a crowded PIER.

And doesn't stop. It drives right off the end of the pier.

A confused fisherman leaps for his life.

SPLASH!

INT: OCEAN - SAME

Lucy's car now transforms into an UNDERWATER VEHICLE. As the

minions come to, one of them tries playing with the radio

until Lucy slaps his hand away. They speed through the sea

and an octopus slams into her windshield. She turns on the

wipers, which hits the octopus in the face until he's had

enough and swims off in a cloud of ink.

She HONKS her HORN as she passes through a school of fish.

As the fish pass the Minions look ahead to see a shark

heading for them with his mouth open. They SCREAM. Lucy

quickly steers the car out of harm's way. They pass by

several more sharks until they arrive at a GIANT SUBMARINE

with the letters "AVL" on the side.

A HATCH opens and Lucy's car goes inside.       The hatch closes

behind her.

INT: AVL SUB - SAME

The water drains out from the holding dock. A buffer and

hair dryer come out to dry off the car. A squeegee wipes off

the windshield.

Then the platform the car is on lowers down.

INT: AVL ROOM - DAY

Lucy's car lowers into the center of the room as a large

circular table assembles around it, effectively locking them

in.

Lucy and the Minions get out of the car. She pushes a button

on her remote and Gru, with a starfish attached to his head,

is ejected from the trunk.

Gru peels the starfish off his head and drops it onto Tom's.

Stuart LAUGHS at him.

A WAITER comes over with tea for Silas.

As Silas summons a map that shows all of the AVL offices

around the world, Lucy's car drops out of the way. Stuart is

trapped on the lowering platform and he scrambles to get back

onto stable ground. Silas continues.

Upon hearing the name, Tom and Stuart start giggling.

Silas bristles at this, and glances over at Lucy.

She continues the de-briefing, turning to the screens, which

show an image of the Magnet Ship stealing the lab.

The screen shows FOOTAGE of a TINY LITTLE BUNNY in a

scientific lab. Furry and adorable.

A LABCOAT TECHNICIAN approaches the bunny with a SYRINGE

containing the purple liquid. Injects some in its butt.

Instantly the bunny transforms into a HIDEOUS PURPLE MONSTER

BUNNY. Gru and the Minions smile, impressed.

Then it goes crazy and attacks the scientist.    Gru covers his

eyes and the Minions pass out.

The bunny attacks the technician, then the camera...and the

film is over.

On the screens we see images depicting a highly technical

diagram of the shopping mall.

Silas scrolls through pictures of the mall's shop owners.

Silas shoots him a look.    He CHUCKLES.

Gru turns and heads for the door, followed by Tom and Stuart,

who continue to GIGGLE about Ramsbottom's name.

EXT: OCEAN - NIGHT

Gru exits the AVL headquarters, which he now sees is on a

SUBMARINE.

Lucy leans out the door and taps him on the shoulder.

She hands Gru her BUSINESS CARD.   Gru takes it and stares at

it.

EXT: OCEAN - LATER

Gru rows back to shore as Tom yells to him like a coxswain.

Gru GRUNTS with each stroke.

INT: GRU'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Gru carries a sleeping Agnes upstairs.

INT: GIRLS' BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Gru enters to find Margo and Edith not in bed.   Margo is

texting someone.

Gru stares back at Edith.     Gets a far-away look in his eyes.

EXT: PLAYGROUND - FLASHBACK - DAY

We flash back to LITTLE GRU on the school playground. He

stares, lovesick, at a CUTE LITTLE BLONDE GIRL, named LISA.

Gru approaches her.

But she doesn't notice him.    He tries again.

Gru clears his throat.

Gru reaches out and taps her shoulder with his pointer

finger.

Then one of the other little girls points to Gru's finger on

Lisa's shoulder.

The other girls turn and squeal, horrified.

A little buck-toothed red-haired girl shouts out to the

entire playground.

The playground erupts with SCREAMS and everyone turns and

runs away.

Little Gru is left alone.     Crushed.

INT: GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Gru comes out of the flashback.

Gru gives each girl a goodnight kiss.

Then he goes over to Margo, who's already in bed.

She continues texting as he gives her a kiss.

Gru turns to Agnes, concerned.

Gru nods, relieved.

Gru sighs and gives her a kiss.

Gru turns out the light and leaves the room.

INT: LAB - DAY

Gru rides the elevator tube down to his lab, passing minions

in various stages of jelly making. A sign reading, JELLY

TESTING AREA" has been hastily pasted over a nuclear warning

sign.

A SUPERVISOR MINION checks his clipboard as the MINION next

to him steals a banana from his pocket. He turns, but the

Minion who stole the banana has hidden it in his mouth. We

see the ends of the banana pushing out his cheeks.

The Minion with the banana in his mouth shrugs.

A single apple is passed down a line of Minions in the least

efficient way possible.

A few Minions mash fruits in large vats ala "I Love Lucy."

One wears a bunch of fruit on his head like Carmen Miranda

and sings the CHIQUITA BANANA song. His supervisor comes

over and tells him to get back to work.

The Minion tries to get out of the vat of fruit, but slips

and falls down into a large test-tube filled with mashed

fruit.

Then all of the mashed fruit is flushed down a large hole

where it is injected into jelly jars passing by on a conveyor

belt. The trapped Minion is injected into one of the jars.

Gru enters the lab and greets the minions.

He points at Tim.

Gru high-fives Donnie as he approaches Dr. Nefario.

Gru sticks his finger in and tastes the purple goo in the

jar. Makes a disgusted face, then attempts a smile.

He hands a jar to a minion, who tries it. He GAGS!   Another

minion tastes some and scrapes it off his tongue. They smash

the jar and all the minions run away, disgusted.

Dr. Nefario hangs his head.

Dr. Nefario presses a button and his stuff folds itself up

into a traveling suitcase.

Dr. Nefario hangs his head.    Gru stares back at his old

friend.

INT: GRU'S LAB - LATER

Seven minions are lined up with seven fart guns. Dr. Nefario

sits in his scooter.

FART!   FART!   FART!

Dr. Nefario COUGHS.     His eyes are watering (and not only from

the smell).

Dave CHUCKLES, guilty.    Dr. Nefario fires up the scooter.

The minions CRY. Dr. Nefario pushes another button on the

scooter, transforming it into flying mode. He GUNS the

engine and it begins flying away. At the slowest pace

possible. Everyone just stands there awkwardly.

Everyone walks off.

Gru examines Lucy's business card.     Makes a decision.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The shadow of a mysterious figure approaches Gru's front

door.

EXT: GRU'S FOYER - NIGHT

A Minion wears a French Maid's outfit and SINGS as he vacuums

the floor. The doorbell rings.

The Minion opens the door to see who it is.

A shadow falls across the terrified minion as something

unseen abducts him.

EXT: GRU'S FOYER - LATER

The vacuum moves back and forth across the floor by itself.

Another Minion walks by wearing a different Maid outfit. He

doesn't see the other Minion and closes the door.

Then he opens it again, cleans the doorknob, and closes it.

INT: FAMILY ROOM - DAY

It's morning at Gru's house. Margo and Agnes sit on the

couch with a LAPTOP. Edith leans over the top of the couch,

looking on.

On the screen is a DATING WEBSITE (CREATE-A-DATE.NET)--the

girls are creating a profile for Gru.

Margo clicks through pictures of Gru.    Each one is worse than

the last.

CLICK.

CLICK.

CLICK. The next picture is of Gru in a bathing suit.   The

girls react in horror.

Margo covers Agnes's eyes.

Gru enters the family room.

The girls stare at him blankly.

The girls LAUGH.

Gru grabs the laptop away from the girls.

Gru hands a Minion the laptop, accidentally hitting him in

the face.

Agnes looks up at him in awe.

Gru looks at Agnes.

He coolly puts on a pair of sunglasses.

We pan to Dave mimicking Gru with a pair of sunglasses.

And then to Kevin dressed in an Amish beard and tie.

And then Stuart dressed as a little girl with pigtails.

EXT: MALL - DAY

Establishing.

INT: MALL - SAME

Gru comes down the escalator wearing the sunglasses, with the

three disguised Minions behind him. Stuart gets his dress

caught in the escalator. It comes off and he hides in a

nearby potted plant.

Gru glances at a store called the "EAGLE HAIR CLUB." He then

arrives at a charming, pink CUPCAKE STORE. The sign reads,

"BAKE MY DAY" Gru frowns and takes off his sunglasses.

INT: BAKE MY DAY - CONTINUOUS

Gru unlocks the door and enters. JINGLE! BELLS on the door

ring. The inside is sugary and clean and quaint. Gru takes

it all in. Then turns to the minions.

The minions excitedly grab the recipe and head for the

kitchen. Gru kicks Stuart, who is still staggering around in

the potted plant.

Gru is left alone. He looks around. Sees a BUNNY CUPCAKE in

a glass cake dish. Then a SHARK CUPCAKE in the next cake

dish. And in the next dish he sees Lucy's head. She makes a

funny face.

Gru SCREAMS, which causes Lucy to SCREAM and jump up, hitting

her head on one of the shelves, sending all of the CUPCAKES

flying.

Lucy immediately goes into action, using incredible and

frankly weird-looking MARTIAL ARTS MOVES to dispatch the

cupcakes as they fly toward her.

She successfully eliminates all of the cupcakes, then turns

to Gru, out of breath.

Gru has a cupcake stuck to the top of his head, frosting side

down. Lucy gestures as if he's got a little food on his

face.

The cupcake slowly slides down, then falls to the floor.    It

leaves a long smear on Gru's face.

Gru stands frozen as she tries to clean him up.

Lucy backs off.

Gru SIGHS and wipes the frosting off his face.

Gru is about to respond when Dave the minion comes out the

kitchen door. He carries a cupcake in the shape of a Minion.

Immediately Lucy moves with lightning-quick reflexes. She

smashes his cupcake, flips him into the air, and pins him to

the counter. Dave SCREAMS.

She releases him.

Dave stares at Lucy. Immediately smitten. A magical glow

appears around her as romantic music plays. We go into

Dave's fantasy.

EXT: BEACH - DAY - FANTASY

Dave and Lucy run along a beach together hand in hand.

EXT: FIELD - DAY - FANTASY

Dave and Lucy have a romantic picnic together. They toast

each other with champagne. Dave drinks from the bottle.

EXT: BRIDGE - NIGHT - FANTASY

Lucy and Dave sit on the railing of a moonlit footbridge.

Both fire ROCKETS into the air to create fireworks and are

about to kiss when--

INT: BAKE MY DAY - DAY

Back to reality, where Dave is staring up at Lucy,

lovestruck.

Dave goes back into the kitchen, never taking his eyes off of

Lucy.

INT: MALL - DAY

CLOSE ON the Giant Cupcake on top of the cupcake shop. The

CHERRY on the Giant Cupcake rotates, revealing a CAMERA

hidden inside. VZZZZZT! The lens zooms.

INT: BAKE MY DAY - SAME

Gru and Lucy stand next to each other under a domed lamp

lowered from the ceiling.

Inside the dome of the lamp, Gru and Lucy are uncomfortably

close together looking at a video screen.

The camera moves over to Mum's the Word Floral Shop and HEDDA

BLUMENTOFT.

The camera moves over to the "Stuff-A-Bear" store. CHUCK

KINNEY, a small perky man, holds up an empty teddy bear skin

for a little boy.

Kinney shoves the teddy bear's butt onto a sharp metal tube.

The bear inflates until it EXPLODES into a torrent of bear

skin and stuffing. The little boy CRIES.

DING-A-LING-A-LING! The bell rings on the cupcake shop's

front door, signaling a customer.

Gru and Lucy quickly hide their equipment, look up and see

EDUARDO PEREZ at the door. They try to act natural.

He rips open his shirt, revealing a TATTOO of the Mexican

flag on his chest.

He flexes and makes it wave.     Gru hides his eyes.

Lucy stares at it.

He exits.    Gru GROANS, relieved.    Finally!

Then Eduardo pops back in.

Gru studies Eduardo's face and GASPS. He pictures Eduardo in

a red luchador mask surrounded by flames. Eduardo turns and

leaves. As soon as the door closes--

EXT: DESERT - DAY - FLASHBACK

Classic Spaghetti western sepia-toned shot of El Macho

looking menacing. He looks like the large Hispanic man from

the mall, only younger and wearing a Lucha Libre outfit and

mask (a mask which looks similar to the one Gru imagined).

El Macho pushes the BARKEEP out of the way and grabs a large

bottle from behind the bar.

El Macho pours himself a shot and then smashes the bottle

over his own head.

He reaches down and pulls up a rattlesnake from below the

bar. He squeezes its head, squirting venom into the shot

glass. He drinks it down and then eats the glass.

He sticks the snake's fangs into a few dollars that he leaves

on the bar, before breaking through the wall behind him,

leaving an EL Macho-shaped hole.

EXT: STREET - DAY - FLASHBACK

El Macho head butts an armored truck and approaches the

passenger side window.

When the ARMED GUARDS look over he punches through the bullet-

proof glass, knocking them both out of the truck. Then he

lifts the truck onto his back and runs down the street with

it.

EXT: SKY - DAY - PAST

A bird, flying in the air, is suddenly struck by an airplane.

El Macho leaps out of the plane riding a SHARK, a ton of

DYNAMITE strapped to him. He plummets toward the mouth of an

ACTIVE VOLCANO.

He pulls two grenades from behind his back, yanks the pins,

and holds onto them as he plunges into the volcano.

There is a MASSIVE EXPLOSION.

INT: BAKE MY DAY - DAY

Lucy stares at Gru, confused.

Lucy gets an excited look on her face.

Gru nods at Lucy's invitation.

Gru looks out the window and points at Eduardo riding up on

the escalator, scratching his butt.

INT: GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Gru enters and pushes the girls into their beds like a tour

guide anxious to finish a tour.

Gru turns to leave, but Agnes is standing at the doorway.

Gru looks down at Agnes' puppy dog eyes.    He SIGHS.

INT: GRU'S FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT

On Agnes.    She gives her lines.

Gru frowns.

As he heads for the door--

This stops Gru.

Ouch.   But Gru tries not to let this affect him.

Agnes looks up at Gru.

Agnes smiles.

She gives him a kiss and runs off.   Gru watches her go, deep

in thought.

INT: REC ROOM - NIGHT

TWO MINIONS raise their ice cream sundaes and clink them

together!

Pull back to reveal many minions singing and dancing.

We move through the crowd, passing by the mace-wielding

minion with his helmet still backwards and a smaller server

minion with a tray of ice cream sundaes in mugs.

We cut up to the rafters, where more minions are dancing and

singing in formation, jumping and hopping all over the place

in elaborate dance routines.

Back on the floor, three arm-in-arm minions take the chorus.

One of them clearly having had one too many sundaes is being

held up by the other two.

Another minion tries to carry empty mugs down a spiral

staircase, but he's knocked off by a bunch of minions running

up the other way.

Several minions sit around a communal bowl of ice cream,

lazily sipping at it through long straws.

Gru enters and takes it all in.

Other minions raid an ice cream cart, hanging from the

canopy, drinking directly from the spouts.

The Minions stop singing.

Dave downs a jar of maraschino cherries and sprays whip cream

into his mouth before running after them, with a toothpick

umbrella in his mouth for good measure.

Once they are gone, the Minions go back to singing and

laughing.

INT: GIRLS' BEDROOM - NIGHT

Margo, Edith and Agnes are fast asleep in their beds. Kevin

and Jerry sing them a lullaby. Then smile and quietly close

the door.

INT: HALLWAY - SAME

Kevin holds up a golf ball.   Jerry happily jumps up and down.

INT: LIVING ROOM - LATER

Jerry puts the tee and ball in his mouth as Kevin stands on a

dresser, preparing to take a swing. He asks Jerry if he's

ready and Jerry gives a thumbs up.

CRASH! CLANG! A noise comes from the backyard.      The minions

exchange looks. What was that?

EXT: BACKYARD - NIGHT

Kevin and Jerry step out into the yard and look around

nervously, armed only with the golf club and tee.

They walk over to the garbage cans. The cans begins to

rattle. Kevin and Jerry SCREAM as a CAT pops up from one of

the cans. The cat MEOWS.

Kevin LAUGHS at him and imitates Jerry's scared face.

Jerry slaps him.    Kevin slaps him back.   They start to slap

fight until--

A SPOTLIGHT comes down from above, lighting up the terrified

minions. Before they can scream...

WOOSH! Jerry is sucked up into the air as if being abducted

by aliens. Kevin grabs onto a flower, and then the cat to

try and anchor himself down, but they both fly up into the

air.

The light goes out. A few seconds later the light comes back

on and drops the cat back down. It turns off again and the

Minions are gone.

EXT: MALL - NIGHT

The mall is dark and the parking lot is empty, except for two

minions and Lucy's car.

INT: MALL - SAME

A lone SECURITY GUARD walks through the dark mall, listening

to music on his headphones. He passes by Eduardo's Salsa &

Salsa. Shines his light inside. All clear. He moves on.

Once the guard is gone, a floor tile is moved aside and Gru

peeks out. After making sure the coast is clear, Gru calls

down.

INT: EDUARDO'S SALSA & SALSA - LATER

Lucy kicks the door open.

She enters.   Gru reacts.

But before Gru takes a step, Lucy stops him.

She produces a SPRAY CAN and sprays the air in front of her.

Gru frowns.

Gru takes a step and kicks a TRIPWIRE attached to a tiny

bell. TING-A-LING! Lucy points to the bell.

Lucy GASPS as a door begins to creak open.      She hides behind

Gru.

A tiny CHICKEN hops out.      It CLUCKS.   Lucy is confused.

Suddenly, the chicken leaps into the air and lands on Gru,

pecking his bald head.

Gru runs in circles, trying to get the chicken off.

Gru SCREAMS as the chicken goes up his shirt and bursts out

of his sweater through the chest, "Alien"-style. He grabs

it.

It pecks him on the head, escapes, and continues to attack

him.

Lucy thinks fast and grabs a tablecloth from a table.      She

lunges and covers the chicken with the table cloth.

She tightens the tablecloth around Gru's neck, trapping the

chicken and Gru's head inside. A muffled scream comes from

under the table cloth and Lucy realizes what she's done. Gru

runs around trying to get the tablecloth off his head.

Lucy does a karate flip/body slam on Gru and the chicken.

She removes the table cloth. Gru's head has been replaced by

the chicken!

She goes to karate chop the chicken, but it flies off and she

hits Gru in the face instead.

The chicken regroups, CLUCKS, and attacks.

Lucy acts fast and presses a button on her watch, squirting

FOAM onto the chicken.

FSSSSSSHT!   The foam instantly hardens into a glass ball

around the chicken. Only its head sticks out. It wobbles

back and forth like a Weeble. Lucy turns to Gru.

Gru is unimpressed.

INT: KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Gru and Lucy step into the kitchen. Lucy pulls out a HIGH-

TECH SCANNING DEVICE and aims it around the kitchen.

Lucy produces a pair of HIGH TECH goggles.    Gru shakes his

head.

Gru puts them on and looks around the kitchen.    We now see

the room from his X-RAY POV.

Gru turns to Lucy and sees her as a SKELETON.

Gru makes a face, disturbed. Then quickly turns away and

spots something behind a painting on the wall...a safe. Sees

something inside it--a METAL CANISTER. Smiles.

He goes to the wall and removes the painting, revealing the

SAFE.

He produces a SAFE-CRACKING DEVICE and places it over the

combination wheel. Lights blink and it goes to work.

CLICK. The safe opens, revealing--a JAR OF SALSA ("EDUARDO'S

SECRET RECIPE").

INT: RESTAURANT - SAME

Eduardo enters the restaurant.   Senses something isn't right.

Frowns angrily.

He cautiously walks through the restaurant. Sees the chicken

in the ball of cement. Gasps.

Eduardo runs over to Pollito and picks him up.

His eyes darken.

INT: KITCHEN - SAME

Gru and Lucy, who are ravenously eating the delicious salsa

with chips, turn to the door. Uh-oh.

INT: RESTAURANT - SAME

Eduardo, carrying the chicken, makes his way to the kitchen.

Grabs a LARGE KNIFE off of a table.

INT: KITCHEN - SAME

Gru and Lucy react to hearing Eduardo's voice. Gru pulls a

LASER CUTTER out of his jacket. Aims it at the ceiling.

TWEEEE!   The LASER fires, cutting a hole in the ceiling.

INT: RESTAURANT - SAME

Eduardo approaches the kitchen, brandishing the knife. Ready

to confront any intruders. He shoves open the door and sees

chips and the salsa container sitting in the open wall safe.

INT: KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Eduardo enters the room, just in time to see a pair of legs

disappear into the ceiling.

Lucy quickly pops down and hits him in the eyes with her foam-

shooting watch.

He rubs his eyes, dropping the chicken and cracking its

encasement.

INT: MALL - SAME

Lucy and Gru quickly run through the mall.

Gru produces a communicator and calls into it.

INT: LUCY'S CAR - SAME

One minion sits on the hood of the car.   The other leans

against a tire, toothpick in his mouth.

INT: MALL - SAME

SMASH! The car crashes through the glass doors and speeds

through the mall. They crash into a bunch of cleaning

supplies being pushed by a janitor.

Gru and Lucy watch them from the balcony above.

They both run over to meet the car at the escalators.

The car heads for the escalators. As they reach the bottom,

Gru and Lucy realize the minions are about to go up the other

one!

Too late. The minions shake as they go up the bumpy stairs.

Once they reach the top they take a left and start driving in

circles around the balcony. Gru pulls out a grappling hook

and aims for the balcony railing.

They shoot up and land right back where they started - at

Salsa & Salsa! The minions zoom by in the car and Gru SIGHS

in exasperation.

Just then, Eduardo emerges from the restaurant with fire in

his eyes and a knife in his hand. Eduardo produces many more

KNIVES and heads straight for them.

BAM! Eduardo is struck unconscious by Lucy's car.       Just in

time.

Lucy opens the car door. One of the minions holds a

toothpick in his hand and leans on the steering wheel,

seductively.

The other minion revs the engine suggestively.

Eduardo starts to wake up.    The car zooms past him.

EXT: MALL DOME - SAME

CRASH! Lucy's car plummets towards the ground. Gru SCREAMS

hysterically, but Lucy just hits a button and the car

TRANSFORMS into a jet.

They fly off into the night sky.

EXT: GRU'S NEIGHBORHOOD - MORNING

It's a beautiful morning. An ICE CREAM TRUCK makes its way

down the street (playing the song the minions were singing

earlier). It stops and a couple of CHILDREN run to meet it.

Stuart opens Gru's front door, having heard the commotion.

Two other minions approach as well. Stuart spots the ice

cream truck and points to it, excited.

And then suddenly a MOB OF MINIONS appears running for the

ice cream truck alongside the group of children. The minions

shove the children aside and clamor around the truck holding

out their money.

Stuart pushes himself to the top of the unruly pack and tries

to maintain order.

A hush comes over the minions.

Suddenly the ice cream cone on top of the truck transforms

into a LARGE TUBE and extends itself above the minions.

Stuart offers the tube a wad of cash and attempts to order

gelato, but the it begins SUCKING the minions into it. ZUP!

ZUP! ZUP!

One by one the minions (dozens of them, including the minion

with his head still trapped in the jelly jar) are sucked into

the truck until there is only one left. He tries to make a

break for it, but the truck lowers a popsicle in front of

him.

He licks it, his tongue sticks, and he is yanked back into

the ice cream cone. The it closes and the truck drives away.

The children look on puzzled.

EXT: PARADISE MALL - DAY

The hole that Lucy's car crashed through last night has been

patched with plywood boards.

INT: PARADISE MALL - DAY

PULL BACK TO REVEAL that Gru is inside a GARBAGE CAN

DISGUISE. Next to him is Lucy, also in a GARBAGE CAN

DISGUISE, using binoculars.

BINOCULARS POV

Floyd Eaglesan attempts to entice a customer to visit his

business, Eagle Hair Club.

Gru quickly stands up, revealing his legs, and takes several

steps toward Eagle Hair Club. Floyd looks over his shoulder,

and Gru stops. Floyd enters Eagle Hair Club and Gru inches

closer.

BINOCULARS POV

Suddenly a MAN approaches the trash can with a steaming cup

of coffee. The binoculars readout says "WARNING! EXTREMELY

HOT."

The man goes to throw the coffee in the trash and we see

Gru's legs pop out from beneath the can.

The man looks confused and tries again.     Gru dodges and takes

off running. The man chases after him.

Gru accidentally knocks into a bent-over woman's rear end.

Insulted, she turns around, sees the man with the coffee, and

slaps him across the face. Unfortunately, Gru doesn't see

the escalator ahead and goes tumbling down the moving stairs.

CRASH! BANG! CLANG! Finally, Gru pops out of the trash can

and lands at the bottom of the escalator with a THUD! Flat

on his face, he hears a familiar voice call out.

Gru looks up and sees Margo, Edith and Agnes.

Lucy arrives on the scene, joining them.

Agnes gazes lovingly at Lucy.   A magical glow appears around

Lucy, who smiles back.

Gru, immediately uncomfortable, claps his hands together.

Gru quickly shuffles the girls away from Lucy, trying to get

out of the uncomfortable situation. Gru pulls out his

wallet.

Gru SIGHS.    The girls run off, but quickly return to hug Gru.

Lucy watches the group hug.      Smiles.   Gru heads back over to

Lucy, embarrassed by Agnes.

INT: SHOPPING MALL - DAY

The girls are at the MALL FOUNTAIN. Agnes has her eyes

closed and a very intense look on her face, as if she's

really concentrating on something. There is something in her

tightly clenched fist. She tosses a PENNY. Then opens her

eyes, waiting for her wish to come true.

Then Edith emerges from the water wearing a DIVING MASK AND

SNORKEL, hands full of COINS.

Margo is busy texting.       Then something offscreen catches her

eye.

It's a boy. This is ANTONIO. Suave, cool, and a bit

dangerous. We watch in SLOW MOTION as he strolls behind the

fountain, and then disappears in its spraying water.

Margo looks for Antonio.       Backs into the fountain and nearly

falls into it.

Antonio catches her.

Margo CHUCKLES nervously.      He helps her back up.

They begin walking away together, then Margo is reminded of

her sisters when Edith loudly clears her throat.

She turns and runs after Antonio.

Agnes grabs Edith and shakes her.

EXT: EAGLE HAIR CLUB - DAY

Gru approaches Eagle Hair Club.

Gru activates the high-tech scanning device on his belt

buckle.

INT: BAKE MY DAY - SAME

Lucy is in the cupcake shop monitoring the scanning device

results. She can hear him and see from his POV.

INT: EAGLE HAIR CLUB - SAME

Gru fumbles with the automatic door, then enters Eagle Hair

Club.

At the reception desk, a large chair shaped like an eagle

spins around. Sitting in the chair is Floyd, looking

sinister and petting a FURRY OBJECT that looks like a cat.

His pet BALD EAGLE perched next to him SQUAWKS.

He strokes the furry object. Kisses it.    Then places it on a

MANNEQUIN HEAD. It's a TOUPEE.

INT: BAKE MY DAY - SAME

Lucy monitors the chem-tracking device from inside the shop.

INT: EAGLE HAIR CLUB - SAME

Gru listens in on the headphones.

He steps over to a wall on which hangs a PAINTING of Floyd

flying with eagles.

Gru thrusts his hips at the painting.    Floyd watches him,

suspicious.

He walks over to a podium with a TROPHY.     He thrusts his hips

at that, too.

Floyd GRUMBLES in frustration.

Gru moves to a shelf filled with WIG SAMPLES.     He straddles

it.

Floyd grabs a sample.

Gru sticks his head into the shelf to investigate.

Gru stares at the wig.    Clearly getting caught up in what

Floyd's saying.

Gru is about to respond when suddenly Edith and Agnes burst

in, out of breath.

Gru stares at them.

Floyd shrugs.

INT: SHOPPING MALL - DAY

Gru, Edith and Agnes race across the mall. Then Agnes points

over to the salsa restaurant as Margo and Antonio walk in.

INT: EDUARDO'S SALSA & SALSA - DAY

Gru enters to see Margo and Antonio sitting together in the

back of the restaurant together. Margo laughs at something

Antonio said.

These words hit Gru like a smack in the face.

He storms in.    Edith and Agnes follow.

Gru storms over to Margo.     Attempts a smile.

SALSA MUSIC begins to play and a curtain opens across the

room. WOOSH! Someone leaps out, spinning like a tornado,

then lands in the middle of the restaurant with a flourish.

It's Eduardo.

Everyone in the restaurant cheers.    Gru frowns.   Not this

guy!

The music continues and Eduardo dances across the floor and

out into the mall where he grabs a passing SHOPPER and pulls

her into the restaurant.

The confused woman holds on for the ride    as Eduardo twirls

and dances her all around the floor. He     dips her and she

melts, as do all of the women watching.     Eduardo gazes into

the woman's eyes and produces a business    card.

The woman grabs the business card from his hand with her

teeth.

Then Eduardo flings her across the floor and she twirls back

out into the mall where she knocks over her confused husband.

Then the song comes to an end and Eduardo strikes a final

pose.

Everyone in the studio cheers.

Everyone except Gru.   Eduardo walks over to him and gives him

a big warm hug.

Gru tries to get out of the hug as quickly as he can.

Gru looks down and sees Eduardo's chicken glaring at him.    It

SQUAWKS. It's unsettling.

Eduardo scoops the chicken up.

Gru tries to pet the chicken but Pollito lunges at him.

The chicken stares relentlessly.   Gru CHUCKLES nervously.

Gru tries to gather the girls, but Eduardo stops him, pushing

Antonio and Margo closer together.

Eduardo suddenly lights up, having an idea.

The girls are all thrilled at this, as is Antonio. As if on

cue, MUSIC begins playing and they all begin dancing

together.

Antonio takes Margo's hand and twirls her across the floor.

Gru stares at Antonio with a look that could kill. A waiter

comes by to give Gru a party drink, and he promptly crushes

the glass with his bare hands. His eye twitches.

INT: AVL HEADQUARTERS - NIGHT

Gru and Lucy sit across from Silas at headquarters.

Gru approaches Silas.

Silas takes a deep breath and rubs his temples.

Lucy jumps in, trying to save the situation.

And Gru storms out.

Once he's gone, Silas gives Lucy a look.

Silas is not amused.

EXT: BEACH - DAY

The minion with the popsicle stuck to his tongue wakes up on

a beach, disoriented. He slowly sits up--

--and sees hundreds of minions partying!

This is where all the abducted minions were taken!

There are minions sitting at a Tiki bar, being tended by a

bartender minion...

...The French maid minion and a ukelele-playing minion are

dancing in the sand. They wave at him...

Meanwhile, Jerry approaches the popsicle minion with two

bananas. He gives him one, does a Hawaiian dance with the

other, then runs off for the water. Popsicle minion tears

off his overalls and follows suit.

The Popsicle Minion, now nude, runs across the sand and jumps

into a clear, blue ocean. We pull back to reveal that

unbeknownst to any of the minions, this is all happening

inside a large terrarium, and they are being watched by a

mysterious figure in silhouette.

INT: FAMILY ROOM - DAY

Gru sits with his laptop. He's on the eVillain site. He

clicks through various images of El Macho. Edith chases

Kevin, who has the wig in his mouth. A minion sets a stack

of magazines on the coffee table.

Then "YOU ARE NO LONGER CONNECTED TO THE INTERNET" appears on

Gru's screen. He grimaces and calls out.

He looks to the minion at the coffee table.

The minion just shrugs and walks away.

DING-DONG!    Someone's at the door.      Gru turns to it.

Gru pretends to shoot himself.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - SAME

Jillian and her artificially beautiful friend SHANNON stand

outside on Gru's porch. Shannon texts on her phone, looking

bored.

INT: GRU'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

He sees Agnes walking by, singing softly and playing with her

unicorn. He whisper-shouts to her.

Agnes turns to the door.

Gru, panicking, shakes his head and wags his fingers.

Gru makes the "zip your lips" gesture.

Gru waves his arms.

Gru waves his hand around his throat, making a "cut it off"

gesture.

Gru clenches his fists and grunts in frustration.

Outside, Jillian and Shannon look confused.

Kyle enters the room, carrying the bag with the wig in his

mouth.

EXT: RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Establishing.

INT: RESTAURANT - SAME

Shannon sits at a table talking to Gru, who's offscreen.    A

waiter drops off a plate of spaghetti.

CUT TO Gru sitting across from her. Wearing a ridiculous WIG

from Floyd. And looking extremely uncomfortable.

Shannon drops to the floor and starts doing push-ups.

She switches to one-armed push-ups.

Gru looks even more uncomfortable.

Just then Lucy (unseen by Gru) enters the restaurant.     She

approaches the HOSTESS.

The Hostess leaves. Lucy looks around and then spots Gru.

Sees him with the wig and Shannon who is now doing crunches

on the floor. Lucy narrows her eyes, then has an idea. She

presses a button on her watch, which transforms into a HIGH

TECH EAVESDROPPING DEVICE, and puts it in her ear. Now she's

able to hear Gru and Shannon talking. She watches them,

intrigued. Shannon has returned to her seat.

Gru is starting to sweat.

He wipes his brow and accidentally shifts the wig on his

head. Shannon stares at Gru's hair.

Lucy presses a button on her watch and a target sight pops

out.

Gru watches in horror as Shannon reaches across the table for

the wig.

Quickly Lucy presses another button on her watch which fires

a MINI-DART GUN at Shannon.

PLIP. The mini-dart goes into Shannon's butt, knocking her

out instantly. And saving Gru from certain humiliation. Gru

stares at the now sleeping Shannon, confused.

Gru quickly removes the wig.

Shannon MOANS like a MOOSE, then passes out again.

AN ITALIAN WAITER approaches.

The waiter nods and leaves.

Lucy turns to Gru.

EXT: RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Gru and Lucy carry an unconscious Shannon out of the

restaurant. Her head gets stuck in the swinging doors on the

way out. They try to dislodge her and accidentally end up

throwing her headfirst into a lamp post. They pick her up

between them, Weekend at Bernie's-style. They wave to a

passing COP. The cop tips his hat.

EXT: SUBURBAN STREET - LATER

Gru and Lucy get in her car. But it's cramped with Shannon

in there too. She doesn't really fit.

EXT: SUBURBAN STREET - LATER

Lucy's car drives down the street. Gru and Lucy now have

plenty of room in the car. We boom up to see that Shannon

has been strapped to the roof like a deer.

EXT: SHANNON'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Gru and Lucy arrive at Shannon's house. Lucy comes to an

abrupt stop and Shannon flies off the roof and slams into the

car in front of them.

EXT: SHANNON'S HOUSE - LATER

Gru and Lucy sit on the front steps of Shannon's house.

Gru and Lucy exchange looks.   He CHUCKLES NERVOUSLY.   Time to

go.

She pats his shoulder and walks toward her car.   Gru gets up

to walk beside her.

They smile at each other, and she gives him a peck on the

cheek and walks away.

Gru smiles a big smile. Shannon slumps over on the porch

behind him. Could he be...falling in love?

INT: GRU'S BEDROOM - SAME

RIIIING! Gru's ALARM CLOCK goes off. He reaches out and

turns it off. Ready to greet the day.

INT: SHOWER - DAY

Gru happily washes in the shower, acting out a puppet show

with his rubber ducky.

INT: BATHROOM - DAY

Gru brushes his teeth with two toothbrushes. He jokingly

arranges them in his mouth like walrus tusks, then BARKS like

a seal.

INT: KITCHEN - DAY

HEART-SHAPED PANCAKES are served to the girls sitting at the

table. Edith makes a face at getting hers.

He laughs gleefully.    The girls exchange looks.    What?

Then he skips out of the room, dancing with a minion in the

kitchen. Agnes's face lights up. Yes!

EXT: STREET - DAY

Gru makes his way to work--on foot:

--he strolls down the sidewalk.

--he passes a MAILMAN and gives him a high five.

Then a POLICEMAN, with whom he exchanges mimed gunfire.

Then a NUN, with whom he bumps rumps.

Seeing something offscreen, Gru GASPS.

--he stops traffic so a happy family of DUCKS can cross the

street.

--he plays ultimate frisbee with a bunch of COLLEGE KIDS,

balancing the spinning disc on his pointy nose.

--he joins a group of OLD LADIES doing Tai Chi.

--he "air" drums with a couple of BUCKET DRUMMERS on the

curb.

--he picks a flower, then walks by a MAN and a WOMAN sitting

alone with their backs to each other at a cafe. He quickly

turns their chairs around so they find each other and hands

the man the flower for the woman. They smile and Gru goes

his merry way.

INT: SHOPPING MALL - DAY

Gru continues happily dancing through the mall on his way to

the cupcake shop. He shimmies with a FAT WOMAN on the

escalator, then GAPS and stops suddenly upon seeing Eagle

Hair Club closed. The MUSIC abruptly ends.

Gru sees Silas speaking with an AVL AGENT.    Gru approaches

him.

He snaps his fingers and an AVL agent hands him a METAL

CANISTER in a ziploc bag. Silas holds it up.

TWO AVL AGENTS carry Floyd away in handcuffs.

Gru turns back to Silas.    He is stunned by this.

Silas walks away to join the AVL agents.   Gru stares blankly,

sadly. And then Lucy approaches him.

She holds out her lipstick taser.

Gru accepts the lipstick taser.

Lucy ignores this and just waits, not wanting to leave.     She

and Gru stand there awkwardly.

And she leaves Gru.    He stands there.   Completely miserable.

EXT: STREET - DAY

Gru walks back home, completely depressed.

Walks past the college kids playing frisbee.      Catches the

frisbee and tosses it down the sewer.

Walks past the group of bucket drummers.    As he passes he

KICKS one of the buckets.

Walks past the old ladies doing Tai Chi. As they balance on

one leg he pushes them all and they all fall over.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - NIGHT

It's pouring rain.    Gru sits alone outside his house.

Miserable.

And then an UMBRELLA approaches him. It looks like it's

traveling on its own. But when it gets closer it lifts up,

revealing Agnes.

Gru takes the umbrella and Agnes joins him.    They both huddle

under it.

Agnes's face lights up.

Agnes's face falls. All her hopes and dreams shattered.     But

she tries to encourage Gru.

Gru thinks.

INT: GRU'S OFFICE - DAY

Gru is on the PHONE.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL Dave the minion standing across from Gru,

pretending to be on a cell phone on the other end of the

line. And wearing a RED-HAIRED WIG. He shrugs.

He hangs up.

He stares at Lucy's card. Then turns to the phone. It's a

stand-off. He does stretches and calisthenics to psych

himself up. He SIGHS.

He stares down the phone again. It sits there, taunting him.

We cut back and forth between Gru and the phone, until

finally--

He produces a FLAMETHROWER and burns up the phone.    Dave

dives out of the way.

RIIIIIING !!!    The FIRE ALARM goes off.

CHOP! Suddenly AXES chop through the wall. Several minions

in FIREMEN'S GEAR enter.  Another minion imitates a siren

through a bullhorn.

One continues chopping everything in sight with his axe, then

chops his way right through the wall of the house and falls

outside. Another minion brings in a MASSIVE HOSE, turns it

on, and goes flying around the room as it whips around like a

snake. Dave tests out a fire extinguisher.

Gru takes away the bullhorn from the Siren minion.    But he

keeps on making the noise.

Dave fires the extinguisher at the Siren minion. He makes

the noise again and Dave sprays him with the fire

extinguisher, sending him flying offscreen.

INT: MINION BEACH HABITAT - DAY

The minions enjoy another day at the beach. Kevin the Golf

minion drifts out in the water on an inner tube. He fixes

his coconut bra, then unpeels a banana and eats it.

INT: CONTROL ROOOM - SAME

A hand pulls a lever in a control room.

INT: MINION BEACH HABITAT - SAME

Suddenly a WHIRLPOOL appears in the water right next to him.

He gets sucked into it.

Kevin is pulled down to the bottom of the habitat and into a

TUBE.

INT: LAB - SAME

Kevin pops out of the tube and lands in a waiting metallic

chair. His hat follows him down the tube and lands on his

head.

CLICK! A metal strap fastens around his waist.    He shrugs

and continues to eat the banana.

Kevin looks over and sees the French Maid Minion strapped

into a chair nearby. He has a banana too.

They raise their bananas in the air.

And then a GIANT DEVICE appears, looking like a huge, scary

HYPODERMIC NEEDLE filled with purple liquid. The needle

comes toward the French Maid Minion.

The needle is injected into him and administers the serum.

The French Maid Minion starts to shake.    Contorts.   Then

MORPHS into a PURPLE MINION.

Kevin points and LAUGHS at him. He doesn't see the needle

come down behind him. It injects him with the serum as well.

EXT: EDUARDO'S HOUSE - DAY

Gru's vehicle makes its way up the winding road to Eduardo's

house.

INT: GRU'S VEHICLE - SAME

Gru drives the vehicle, looking deeply depressed. The girls

sit in the back, dressed up for the Cinco de Mayo party.

Gru's expression doesn't change.   They pull up to the front

gate.

EXT: EDUARDO'S HOUSE GATE - SAME

Gru's vehicle pulls up in front of the open gate in front of

Eduardo's house. His car almost knocks a bunch of parked

cars off the cliff.

The grounds are set up for the most elaborate and fun Cinco

de Mayo party of all time. Sumptuous spreads of MEXICAN FOOD

everywhere. LANTERNS hanging from trees. PEOPLE having a

great time.

Gru and the girls enter the compound.

On Agnes with her mouth and arms full of churros.

On Edith, swinging her ninja sword.

As Gru turns to Margo he sees that she is holding hands with

Antonio, face-to-face, almost close enough to kiss.

Gru furrows his brow.

He grabs Antonio and drags him far away from Margo.

Gru turns and sees that Antonio is back next to Margo.

He grabs Margo's hand and takes off.    Edith and Agnes follow.

Agnes explodes with delight.

Gru watches them go.    Frowns.

EXT: EDUARDO'S HOUSE - LATER

Gru, sneaking through the party, spots Antonio and Margo

dancing.

Gru sneaks up on Antonio, using the flashing strobe lights to

cover his approach. Suddenly Antonio is gone and Gru is the

one dancing with Margo, who has her back to him and is

oblivious to what's going on.

Antonio reappears and kicks Gru in the crotch from behind.

He dances once again with Margo while Gru hunches over in

pain.

Gru then gets the upper hand and starts choking Antonio and

shaking him. Margo turns around and sees this.

Gru and Antonio see they are being watched by Margo and start

casually dancing next to each other as if nothing is wrong.

As the song ends, Margo takes Antonio's hand and pulls him

away from Gru off the dance floor.

Gru is defeated and all alone.

INT: EDUARDO'S HOUSE - LATER

Gru sits by himself in the corner, sulking and staring at

Lucy's lipstick taser. A WAITER walks by and places a

tortilla chip sombrero on his head with the rim filled with

guacamole. He breaks off a piece, dips it, and eats it.

Gru looks up and sees Eduardo standing there.   Gru quickly

hides the taser.

Gru takes another scoop of guacamole, smiles, and gives a

thumbs up. A glob of guacamole falls from the sombrero.

Eduardo puts his arm around him.

Eduardo gives Gru a meaningful look. And then walks away.

Gru watches him go. Deep in thought.

Gru notices Eduardo suspiciously sneak away from the party

and head into the house.

Gru gets up from the table and follows Eduardo. As he walks

through the party, several partygoers break tortilla pieces

off his sombrero to eat.

INT: EDUARDO HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Eduardo enters a dimly-lit room. Gru sneaks behind and peers

through a crack in the door.

INT: SECRET MAYAN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Eduardo stands in the center of a secret room, which is lined

with Mayan-style totem poles. He dances on the tile floor,

which lights up and plays "La Cucaracha" with each strategic

step.

The musical pattern is a code which opens a secret passageway

through the largest totem's mouth. Eduardo enters and the

mouth closes behind him.

Gru tentatively enters the room. He pauses at the tile

floor. He tries to replicate Eduardo's "La Cucaracha" code,

but a glob of guacamole from his sombrero falls to the floor

and hits the wrong tile. This activates a booby-trapped

totem pole, which halves Gru's sombrero with a spear.

Gru observes the destroyed sombrero in his hands.

Gru attempts the code again, but missteps.    An axe from the

wall swings at him and misses.

Gru missteps again and one of the totems lights up and spits

fire at him, burning his face.

He missteps again and a club whacks him over the head.

One of the totems shoots darts at him, piercing his nose.

Gru falls to the floor.

His head hits the correct tile, and the Mayan passageway

opens. Gru walks to the door, pointing at the totems and

gloating.

The passageway doors slam on his arm.

He pulls his crushed arm through the doors.

EXT: SKY - DAY

A 747 jets through the sky.

INT: AIRPLANE - SAME

Lucy sits alone and stares out the window.    Depressed.   She

SIGHS.

She grabs an in flight magazine and opens it up to an ad for

wristwatches. It reads; "IN THE SKY, HE IS THE ONE MAN

EVERYONE CAN TRUST" and shows a picture of Gru giving the

thumbs up in a cockpit.

Lucy reacts, shakes her head, and now the picture is just a

regular airline pilot in the cockpit.

Lucy turns the page. It's another ad, saying simply "Gru

Now!" and showing a picture of a muscular Gru diving from a

waterfall. She GASPS and slams the magazine shut, then

slowly reopens it to find the picture is really just a random

muscular guy diving. It says "GO NOW - TO HAWAII!"

Lucy looks up from her magazine to see the flight attendant,

who looks like Gru. She REACTS. Then looks across the aisle

and sees a lady that looks and sounds like Gru, talking to

another man who looks like Gru.

Then Lucy looks behind her and sees the young mother looks

like Gru. The baby turns around and also looks like Gru.

The flight attendant tries to get Lucy's attention.

Close on Lucy as she has a moment of epiphany.

Lucy runs to the exit door and flings it open.   WOOSH!   Air

rushes throughout the cabin.

The flight attendant stands up, recovering from her twirl.

The other passengers wave as the plane's oxygen masks fall

from each overhead console. And with that, Lucy jumps from

the plane, holding her purse.

EXT: SKY - DAY

As Lucy falls from the sky she presses a button on her purse

and it transforms into a hanglider. She flies off with

purpose.

INT: TUNNEL - DAY

Elevator doors open revealing EL MACHO'S UNDERGROUND LAIR.

Gru stands in the doorway, pulling the dart out of his nose.

The lair is a massive villainous complex that looks a lot

like hell. Gru takes the place in. It's awesome and

terrifying. The magnet ship is there!

Gru turns around and sees Eduardo dressed in El Macho's old

wrestling outfit, like we saw in the flashback.

Standing in the middle of the lair's walkway is the one, the

only...Dr. Nefario.

Dr. Nefario pulls a lever. A platform rises with the Purple

Minion version of Kevin strapped to a chair on it.

He then presses a BUTTON.

--a machine gun lowers and the purple minion's RIDDLED with

BULLETS, but unhurt.

--a FLAMETHROWER shoots fire at the purple minion, but he's

completely unharmed.

--an axe is swung at him, but he just eats it.

--an atom bomb falls on him, but he just swallows it and it

explodes harmlessly in his belly.

--a POLICE CAR is dropped onto him, and he devours it whole.

Gru stares, stunned.

The lights come on above El Macho, revealing hundreds of

caged PURPLE MINIONS.

Gru can't believe his eyes.    El Macho LAUGHS.

Dr. Nefario pops a celebratory noisemaker in the background.

El Macho eagerly awaits Gru's reply.   Gru just stares at him.

How does he get out of this?

El Macho is taken aback.

Gru realizes he's in danger and quickly tries to backpedal.

Gru steps into the elevator and the door shuts. Then opens.

He's frantically trying to press the button that will return

him to the surface.

The doors close and Gru is gone.       El Macho stares, deep in

thought. Clearly suspicious.

El Macho presses a button that releases the Purple Minion.

EXT: EL MACHO'S HOUSE - SAME

Edith knocks a pinata down with a BAT, then beats the crap

out of it.

SMACK!   Edith accidentally hits Gru in the face with the bat.

Edith takes off her blindfold.

EXT: OTHER SIDE OF EL MACHO'S HOUSE - DAY

Margo sits at a table alone and depressed, wearing the chip

hat. She looks like she's been crying.

Gru approaches her with the other girls in tow.

Gru turns and sees Antonio dancing with a PRETTY GIRL.   Gru

frowns.

He takes her hand and leads her offscreen before popping back

into frame and firing the freeze ray at Antonio. We see he

is now frozen in a block of ice.

EXT: EL MACHO'S DRIVEWAY - DAY

SCREEECH! Gru's car pulls out of the driveway and speeds

down the mountain, just as Lucy's hang glider lands at

Eduardo's.

EXT: EDUARDO'S HOUSE - DAY

Lucy looks around, but doesn't see Gru.   She maneuvers her

way through the crowd.

She makes it through, but still no sign of Gru.

Suddenly Pollito appears and exchanges looks with Lucy. He

SCREECHES and flies towards her. She strikes a martial arts

pose ready to defend herself. As she does, her purse falls

to the ground.

The attack never comes and she looks down to see Pollito

pecking at her purse.

El Macho appears and picks up the chicken, petting it.

El Macho drops off, deep in thought.   Connecting the dots.

Lucy is oblivious.

Suddenly El Macho turns Pollito around revealing that he has

her AVL credentials in his beak. El Macho grabs Lucy.

He leads her away.

We see Dr. Nefario watching this, in shock.      He's holding a

drink and a Mexican flag cupcake.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - DAY

The vehicle pulls into the driveway.

INT: GRU'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Gru walks the girls into the family room. Two minions sit in

front of the big screen TV playing a video game.

The BIGSCREEN TV BEEPS. Gru and the others turn to look.

It's Dr. Nefario. He's at El Macho's, whispering and looking

anxiously around him from under a table.

Gru is confused.

Dr. Nefario looks nervously offscreen.    El Macho's coming.

Nefario disconnects the camera.   The screen goes blank.

Agnes GASPS and turns to Gru.

Gru begins to walk out of the room.    He turns to the minions.

Gru marches out of the room, fire in his eyes.    A man on a

mission. To save the woman he loves.

The minions are visibly disappointed to leave their video

game. One of them clutches the controller in his hand and

continues to play until the moment he exits the frame.

INT: GRU'S GARAGE - DAY

Gru gets on his motorcycle. It's the GRUCYCLE, a Gru-style

motorcycle, like Arnold in Terminator 2.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - DAY

A playhouse in Gru's front yard drops away, revealing a hatch

in the ground. Out drives Gru. Two minions sit behind him

holding on.

He speeds down the road.    Ready to kick some butt.

EXT: EL MACHO'S COMPOUND - DAY

The yard is now filled with ROCKET SHIPS.

From behind, we watch El Macho emerge from his home to survey

the troops.

Some minions file into the rocket ships.    El Macho watches

them and LAUGHS maniacally.

EXT: GRU'S HOUSE - DAY

EVIL MINION POV: The evil minion Kevin runs down the street,

nearing Gru's house. He is scared by his own reflection in a

shiny parked car. He spots a tricycle and eats it.

Then Kyle spots him and GROWLS.

Kyle runs off and evil minion Kevin gives chase.   He stops

when he sees the front door.

INT: GRU'S HOUSE - DAY

Margo and Agnes sit on the floor playing a princess board

game. Next to Agnes is her unicorn.

They hear a SCRATCHING SOUND outside the window.   Agnes looks

scared.

Margo stands up. Makes her way toward the window, which is

covered with drapes. Then reaches a nervous hand and pulls

back the drapes.

Suddenly, evil minion Kevin appears at the window, looking

really scary!

Margo SCREAMS.

SMASH! Evil minion Kevin crashes through the window and

lands in the family room surrounded by shattered glass and

tangled up in the curtain. He turns to the girls, who slowly

back away. He looks at Agnes and ROARS.

Margo grabs Agnes and they run out of the room, accidentally

dropping the stuffed unicorn behind.

Agnes stops and runs back for it.

Agnes stops and sees evil minion Kevin already has it in his

mouth.

Agnes screams a crazy HIGH-PITCHED SCREAM. It SHATTERS all

the glass in the room, including the glass in evil minion

Kevin's goggles. He spits out the unicorn. He is slowed him

down for a bit, so Agnes safely grabs the unicorn, and Margo

grabs Agnes's hand.

They run for the elevator to the lower level, with the purple

minion hot on their tails.   The elevator drops just in time.

Evil minion Kevin slams into the glass door.

INT: GRU'S LAB - SAME

Margo and Agnes run into the lab to find half a dozen minions

milling about.

Edith plays ping-pong with the minions using nun-chucks like

Bruce Lee. Margo shuts the big iron door.

Edith and the minions stare back at Margo.

CRASH! The purple minion has eaten its way through the

ceiling!

It drops down into the lab and lands on a dazed yellow

minion. The girls SCREAM as it jumps up and dashes towards

them.

Evil minion Kevin stomps toward the girls.    They are backed

into a corner. It's all over.

Then suddenly a HYPODERMIC NEEDLE enters frame and injects

evil minion Kevin. He falls over, writhing on the floor.

Then he sits up and--

Has turned back into a YELLOW MINION.    It's Kevin!

The other minions dog pile on him with friendly hugs.

Reveal Dr. Nefario holding the needle.

Nefario produces a VIAL filled with YELLOW LIQUID.

He walks over to a vat of the jelly.

He pours the antidote into the vat.

EXT: EL MACHO'S HOUSE - LATER

Gru makes his way up the road leading to El Macho's house.

He is wearing handcuffs, and being led at spear-point by Dave

and Stuart, who have been painted purple to look like Evil

minions. But they are goofing around and giggling. And they

still have a few yellow spots.

The minions somber up.

Gru covers a smeared yellow spot with purple paint.

They approach the front gate, which is closed. Dave boosts

himself onto a stray box and speaks gibberish into the

intercom. He hears Evil Minion gibberish in response. He

responds back in Evil Minion gibberish.

The intercom buzzes and the gate begins to open.

The gate opens and there are DOZENS of PURPLE MINIONS milling

about. They eye Gru and his captors suspiciously.

Dave and Stuart poke Gru with a spear.

The Evil Minions CHEER at seeing this.

Gru, Dave and Stuart have to walk all the way to the house

surrounded on all sides by evil purple minions. The painted

yellow minions are very nervous. The purple minions eye them

as they pass. They GROWL and the yellow minions attempt to

GROWL back.

It's extremely intense, but it looks like they're going to

make it.

Then one of the evil minions makes a slobbery raspberry at

one of the painted ones. They get into a raspberry fight

until the painted minion is grossed out and tries to rub the

slobber off him. It rubs off the purple paint.

One of the evil purple minions points and SCREAMS. They're

exposed! All of the purple minions run towards Gru, Dave and

Stuart. Teeth bared. Ready to chomp.

They take off running.

EXT: EL MACHO'S BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Gru and the yellow minions burst into El Macho's backyard.

The Evil Minions give chase.

They climb a tree up to the roof of the house, only to be

pursued by more minions up there. And the Evil Minions have

devoured the tree so they can't go back that way either.

With no escape, Gru and the minions run up a tower until they

reach the top--a dead end.

Here come the purple minions. They're trapped. Gru kicks

them away and the yellow minions try to fight off the purple

ones. But they are clearly doomed.

And then Gru's ship appears hovering above them! Modified as

a jelly-dispensing weapon and with Dr. Nefario at the

controls! The minions hang on the sides holding JELLY

BLASTERS.

The ship opens fire on the evil minions, transforming them.

POP! POP! POP! POP! One by one they transform back into

yellow minions. One of the Minions wipes the horrible

tasting jelly off his tongue.

Dr. Nefario sticks his head out the side of the ship.

Gru leaps onto the ship.

Gru looks over to see Margo, Edith and Agnes onboard the

ship, holding jelly blasters.

Gru is flabbergasted.    He turns to Nefario.

Gru's ship flies toward El Macho, blasting purple minions all

along the way.

From behind a large jelly gun Edith unloads round after

round.

El Macho witnesses his evil minions being converted back to

regular ones.

Gru turns to Nefario and the girls.

Gru leaps out of the ship down to the roof El Macho is on.

He has two big jelly weapons in his hands.

Meanwhile the ship flies off with its jelly blasters firing,

and comes to land on the ground below.

The minions and the girls start jumping from the ship.    Agnes

takes aim.

Agnes' gun is a little too big for her and the kick sends her

a bit out of control. But she still manages to hit a number

of Evil Minions. The tide is turning.

Meanwhile, Gru has gone ballistic on the evil minions.   BLAM!

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! He takes the remaining few out.

El Macho kicks an evil minion at Gru, but he manages to hit

it with jelly and transform it back to yellow. Gru holds his

gun up to El Macho and gives him a threatening look.

He turns to a computer and pushes a button.

A fountain stops spewing water and underneath it STEEL DOORS

open from the ground. And out of them rises a ROCKET.

Strapped to it is Lucy. Tied to a SHARK with TWO HUNDRED AND

FIFTY POUNDS OF DYNAMITE strapped to her.

Gru is horrified.   He GASPS.

El Macho calls to Gru, brandishing a remote.

Dave swoops in on a rope and grabs the remote, Tarzan-

style...

But unfortunately he smacks a roof support and drops the

remote. It bonks a bunch of minions on the head and lands on

the ground.

El Macho stares down Gru.   Fire in his eyes.

He pulls out a vial of PX-41 and drinks it. Gru GASPS. El

Macho transforms into a giant, purple, furry creature. He

ROARS.

Gru pulls the trigger on his jelly gun, but he is out of

ammunition. He then pulls out the FREEZE RAY and fires,

encasing El Macho's fists in blocks of ice. El Macho GROWLS

and slams his fists to the ground, shattering the ice and

knocking Gru off the platform and onto a scaffolding. Gru

SCREAMS.

The scaffolding tips over. El Macho grabs the scaffolding

and holds it above his head, ready to crush Gru.

Suddenly Gru pulls out Lucy's lipstick taser and fires it at

Purple El Macho! The jolt of electricity has him shaking and

dancing and ultimately sizzling and smoking, until he finally

collapses on the ground.

Lucy smiles at this.

Gru runs off to save her.   The minions surround El Macho,

cocking their jelly guns.

Dr. Nefario fires the Fart Gun directly into El Macho's face,

causing him to pass out. The minions CHEER, firing their

jelly guns into the air.

One of the minions stands on top of El Macho and poses for a

big game hunter-style photo. Dr. Nefario smiles for the

camera as well.

Gru runs toward the rocket.

Gru attempts to untie Lucy. And then sees Pollito has walked

over to the remote. Gru and Lucy GASP. The chicken looks at

Gru and Lucy, then pecks the button.

The rocket blasts off into the air. The Minions and Girls

watch in horror as Gru and Lucy fly off on the rocket.

EXT: SKY - CONTINUOUS

Gru uses his knife to cut Lucy's ropes. They SCREAM as the

shark gets loose and falls down to a SUSHI BAR below where

all of the CUSTOMERS and SUSHI CHEF CHEER.

Meanwhile, on the rocket Gru rips a panel off the side,

revealing a mess of WIRES inside.

Gru starts to pull out wires left and right.   To no avail.

Gru GASPS, realizing they are approaching the VOLCANO. Time

is running out. Death is imminent. He looks Lucy in the

eyes.

Gru smiles. Then realizes that the rocket is still careening

toward the volcano. He grabs Lucy.

Gru and Lucy grab hands and leap off the rocket.

The rocket plunges into the volcano.

Gru and Lucy plummet through the air.

KA-BLAAAAM!!! The volcano explodes in a massive tempest of

fire and smoke and lava.

The impact of the blast hits Gru and Lucy and sends them

flying.

SPLASH!   They hit the water.

BAM!   BOOM!   The volcano continues exploding.

SPLASH! Gru emerges, soaking and out of breath.     Fire and

lava flying all around him. He can't find Lucy.

After a few moments, Lucy also emerges.    Gru is incredibly

relieved.

Lucy smiles and hugs Gru. They both go underwater.       Then

come back up. Sputtering. And in love.

The Minions appear in the rowboat.

But they pass right by them.

TITLE CARD: 147 DATES LATER...

Romantic music plays under the title card.

EXT: HILLSIDE - DAY

Four minions, dressed in matching suits, begin to sing a All-

4-One's "I Swear," pronounced "Underwear" in Minionese.

We are at Gru and Lucy's wedding reception. We PULL BACK to

the WEDDING CAKE, and then to Gru and Lucy dancing. As they

dance we see all of the wedding guests watching: Gru's Mom,

Dr. Nefario, Silas, Jillian, Shannon, Natalie, etc.

Gru dips Lucy and they attempt their kiss, but their noses

keep bumping. They finally manage to kiss and the crowd

CHEERS.

We see the three girls watching in their beautiful bridesmaid

dresses. Agnes can barely contain her glee. PAN OVER TO

Edith, who makes a face.

The minions finish the song.

The girls sit at their table.    Agnes clearly has something on

her mind. She SIGHS.

She stands up on the table.

Looks out at the crowd, but they can't hear her.

She still doesn't have the crowd's attention, so Margo taps

on her glass. Everyone looks to Agnes, who is visibly

nervous.

She looks out at the crowd. Is really nervous. Looks over

at Gru. He smiles. Mouths "okay." This helps, and Agnes

pulls herself together and recites the Mothers Day poem from

earlier.

Agnes turns to Lucy and looks her right in the eyes.

Lucy smiles, melting. The crowd goes "awwwww." Agnes and

Lucy spin around in a hug. The crowd cheers and applauds.

Gru, Margo and Edith join Agnes and Lucy in a group hug. The

family is complete.

A minion begins to spin The Village People's "YMCA" at the DJ

table. The minions, several of whom are dressed as The

Village People, begin to perform the song. The minion

dressed as the Chiquita banana lady also joins in.

Then the entire family boogies across the dance floor,

including Dr. Nefario and Gru's Mom.

EXT: HILLSIDE - MOMENTS LATER

A minion poses Gru, Lucy, and the girls for a formal picture.

Everyone looks good. They all smile.

CLICK!

Another picture adds Gru's Mom, Dr. Nefario, and two minions

to the group.

CLICK!

Another picture adds even more minions to the group.

CLICK!

An evil minion pops up and photobombs the last picture!

