FADE IN:

EXT. ELECTRIC SIGN

It FILLS THE SCREEN (designed to exactly FILL THE FRAME size

of whatever ratio we're shooting in).  It says:

This message will be a little cryptic to the movie audience

on an essentially BLACK SCREEN.  HOLD for a beat, then it

changes: the lights flash this sign, which should explain it

to everyone:

And a slow distant ROLL OF THUNDER in the far distance; now

the SOUND of media begin to come up loud, under:

EXT. FLATBUSH AVENUE - DAY

LONG SHOT down the Avenue, 400 mm lens, heat waves shimmering,

thousands of old people, and people with children in strollers

moving restlessly about in the heat on those endless miles

of benches.

The SHOT is ON SCREEN only for a beat or two, then gone...

SOUND TRACK COMES FROM A THOUSAND TRANSISTOR RADIOS, TV SETS,

AUTO RADIOS, BLENDED IN THE OPEN AIR...

EXT. SHEA STADIUM (TV CLIP) - DAY

An unnamed player swings and hits a high pop up...

ANGLE ON CROWD

as the ball comes down they scramble and fight for it...

A touch of viciousness...

EXT. MOVIE HOUSE TO MACDONALD'S - DAY

We are SEEING HEIDI, though we don't know it yet - she's

just another pretty 175-pound Italian girl with two kids,

KIMMY, JIMMY, about four and five years old.  Right now she

is a lump of browning flesh, shining with oil among rows of

similar ladies (mostly thinner, but all with a certain

unhealthy softness about them) laid out in rows and groups

across the sand.  SHOOT LOW AND LONG, so heat shimmers rise,

as though the heat were baking the oil out of this mob,

visible suntan oil pollution...  Heidi's transistor blasts

ROCK MUSIC into the air.

FAR DISTANT THUNDER ROLLS...

INT/EXT. SONNY'S CAR - STREET - DAY

It is parked in a drab Brooklyn street.  Beside the car stands

SAL, medium height, also good-looking in an intense boyish

way.  His eyes dart about suspiciously, the ever-watchful

Sal.

There is a watchful reserve in Sal that contrasts to Sonny's

outgoing bounciness: first impression is Sonny is all bark;

Sal is the bite.  Sal is dressed in impressive blue suit

style, he looks like a kid trying to impress the Godfather.

He even wears a hat.  Now, matching Sal's preparations inside

the car, he checks his tie's alignment, shoots his cuffs and

is ready...

Meanwhile, on their car radio:

ANOTHER ANGLE BY CAR

As he turns, from the back of the car, JACKIE appears with a

huge florist box, tied with ribbon.  Jackie is an eighteen

year old with bad complexion and in contrast to Sonny and

Sal is dressed in teenage sloppiness.  Adidas, T-shirt,

bowling jacket, jeans.  He is uncertain: waits for directions

from Sonny.  Sonny takes the florist box from him.

We see a water truck drive down the street, followed by

Sonny's car, which drives up near bank.  It stops, Jackie

gets out, crosses to bank window, peers through, then

ANGLE INSIDE CAR

returns to car.  Leans in, has fake conversation with Sonny.

They are waiting.  Sonny checks his watch, turns to Sal in

back seat:

They wait.  At appropriate moment, Sal exits car, walks toward

bank.  Slowly Sonny gets out.

INT. BANK - DAY

A slightly seedy little branch bank, old yellow brick, blond

varnished wood, a rubber plant, an American flag.  Through

the windows we SEE HOWARD, the aged black bank guard, in

uniform, taking down the American flag from outside.  Past

him comes Sal carrying an attache case.  He passes Howard

coming toward us through the door into the bank.  As he passes

CAMERA:

INSERT: BANK CLOCK

as it CLICKS from 2:57 to 2:58 PM.

MOVING SHOT WITH SAL

as he moves toward the left-hand deposit-slips desks.

He picks out a car-loan application slip, then walks toward

the manager's desk (as the sign on the desk proclaims) of

PATRICK MULVANEY.  Sal sits down, his back to Mulvaney, facing

the front door of the bank.  Mulvaney is on the phone.

ON DOOR

as Sonny bustles through in his bouncy dancer's walk.  He

carries the large florist box.  He moves toward the left-

hand deposit-slips desks, takes one out and begins to fill

one out.

ON HOWARD

as he pulls out the keys, attached to the belt of his uniform.

Jackie approaches the door of the bank and stops, neither in

nor out, as though he can't make up his mind.  Howard watches

him, waiting patiently, keys in hand, folded flag under his

arm.

CLOSE - SAL

still sitting, back to Mulvaney, watching Jackie's approach

and entrance, ready to move on cue.

ON DOOR

on Howard as he looks at Jackie, still half in, half out.

Howard speaks to him:

Jackie steps in and as Howard locks the door to prevent more

customers from entering, Jackie walks toward Sonny, filling

out a slip at the left-hand area.  CAMERA FOLLOWS Jackie.

He stops at deposit-slips desk, next to Sonny.

CLOSE - SAL

as if by pre-arranged signal, Sal now stands up, moves to

the side of Mulvaney's desk.

ON MULVANEY

who is still on the phone.  He gestures at the sign on his

desk that says so, and gestures for Sal to sit down.

ON SAL

as he sits, producing as he does a machine pistol, which he

holds on Mulvaney's chest, out of sight from others in the

bank.

MULVANEY

His mouth simply stops, and he stares at the gun.  Mulvaney

is a comic opera Irishman in his early fifties, florid...

cheerful, bushy eyebrows; he acts out everything he says...

He hangs up, and looks from the gun up to Sal's blank hard

face.  To his own amazement, he grins: a hopeful grin that

says: "Like me - don't hurt me."  And he's embarrassed by

it.  As we watch, his smile turns sour.

HIS POV - FLASH

Sal's absolutely unmoved face.

TWO SHOT - SONNY AND JACKIE

Jackie moves over to Sonny.

Jackie moves to another deposit-slips desk - takes one out

and begins to fill it out.

ON TELLER'S CAGE AREA

as a LADY with a BABY in a stroller moves away from the Teller

and starts to walk toward the front door.  DEBORAH is marking

figures on a piece of paper at 1st Teller's cage.

SYLVIA and MIRIAM stand behind her - their backs to Sonny.

Howard, who has put the folded flag in a plastic bag in a

front desk, follows Lady toward the door.  He unlocks the

door and hands the Baby a lollipop, courtesy of the bank,

and she exits the bank.

CLOSE - NEW ANGLE - SONNY

glancing at clock, taking a sharp deep breath...

SAL

staring at Mulvaney.

MULVANEY

the ruins of his smile still on his face.

HOWARD

straightens up from locking the door; the figure of the Lady

and the Baby can be seen receding outside...

SONNY

seeing that the bank is closed, locked in, with no customers,

crosses toward the front teller's cage area, carrying the

florist box.  As he reaches the other side, he rips open the

box and takes the rifle out and aims it level onto SYLVIA

BALL, the teller, who automatically takes the "closed" sign

and holds it in front of her face as though to protect herself

from the rifle.

TWO SHOT - MULVANEY AND SAL

as Mulvaney stands and yells to Sylvia...

ANGLE ON BACK OF BANK, REST ROOM AREA

as MARGARET, an accountant, comes out of the ladies' room,

starts to cross downstage toward her desk, sees what is

happening, and momentarily freezes in her tracks.

SONNY

The cues have got all fucked up, but he's so programmed and

ready, he can't adjust, so the speech he had ready comes out

now:

Sylvia and Edna start to move toward the rear of the bank,

toward Margaret's desk.

MULVANEY

aghast at his own outspokenness... Sal holding the gun

levelled on him.

TWO SHOT - SONNY & JACKIE

Jackie, staring at the real guns, turns to Sonny...

Jackie starts to move toward the front door.

Sonny yells out at frozen Howard.

Sonny sees that Howard is useless, so he runs to Howard,

grabbing the keys from him and pulls Howard along with him

to the front door.  Jackie unlocks the door, and Jackie,

with a last apologetic glance, gives his gun to Sonny and

vanishes into the sweltering afternoon.  Sonny then frisks

Howard and has a sudden afterthought as he locks the door

again.  He quickly unlocks it and shouts out at Jackie.

EXT. BANK - DAY

Jackie stops, fumbles for keys, crosses back to Sonny with

them.

Sonny turns into the bank once more, as Jackie walks off

toward the subway, pointing inside at a desk near the window

as he does, to point something out to Sonny.

INT. BANK - DAY

Sonny, re-entering the bank, speaks to Howard.

Sonny now crosses to desk that Jackie indicated, as everyone

watches him, as though it's all in the game.

JENNY, a young, frightened girl, peeks out from under the

desk, obviously afraid to reveal herself.

Sonny starts to move toward the front of the bank.  Sal turns

so he can cover everyone.  Sonny turns to order Howard.

Howard doesn't move.

Howard belatedly leaps to work, pulling drapes that screen

off the interior from outside.  The door has no drapes or

blinds and thus when the drapes are closed there is a corridor

of space across the street we will always be able to see.

And from which people outside will always be able to see in.

As Howard finishes the task, he then walks back to the huddled

group on the rear.

SONNY

on his way to the back of the bank, is digging into his jacket

pocket; he swings around as he passes the camera that is

bolted to a wall bracket covering the tellers' area.  He

whips out a spray can and gives the lens a shot of red paint.

There are three cameras in all, each of which he sprays.

After spraying the three cameras, he has reached Mulvaney's

desk area.  The girls are scattering to group farther back

and Sonny and Mulvaney are heading for the vault.

MIRIAM, a young, awkward, overweight Jewish girl, chewing

gum with nervous machine-like rapidity, moving toward the

vault.  The gate is closed, and she holds one key and Mulvaney

the other.  They pass Sal, who now holds the others in the

bank under his gun while at the vault gate.

NEW ANGLE

Mulvaney is about to insert his key in his lock.  Sonny

quickly reaches out and grabs Mulvaney's hand, and looks at

the key he has extended.  He explodes.

He almost hits Mulvaney with his fist.

He's grabbed the keys from Mulvaney and holds up the key

Mulvaney was going to use... we're in a:

VERY TIGHT TWO SHOT - MULVANEY AND SONNY'S HEADS

Sonny holds the key right in the middle of the FRAME where

Mulvaney and the audience can SEE the key has a tiny

projection or spur at the end.  If this key is used, the

spur triggers a silent alarm.

Mulvaney nods and picks out a key that is identical except

for the spur.  He shows it to Sonny.  Sonny nods.

NEW ANGLE

as Mulvaney carefully uses the safe key to unlock the gate.

Miriam is crying as she unlocks her side.  The gate swings

open.  Sonny shoves Mulvaney inside and, as he passes Miriam,

notices her tears.

She just stands there staring into his face like a hypnotized

chicken, the tears streaming down her face.

Sonny stops, staring at her.  Mulvaney, starting to open the

gate, moves inside the vault, impatient...

Miriam hesitates.

Sonny looks at Mulvaney, alarmed...

Sonny storms into the vault.

NEW ANGLE IN VAULT

as Mulvaney pulls a cash drawer out to show Sonny: even we

can see there isn't much there.  Sonny searches for more,

finds nothing.

At this, Sonny pulls out a plastic bag from his pocket, hands

it to Miriam, who opens it and puts the money into it.  As

he turns, we see that Miriam is still staring at him,

terrified, and as his rifle swings around, she reels back

with a little screech of terror...

Sonny starts out of the vault toward the teller's area with

bag of money.  He speaks to Mulvaney.

Miriam follows Sonny to teller's cages gate.  He carries the

bag.

PHONE STARTS TO RING (#1)

Mulvaney crosses to his desk, picks up the receiver.  Sal

follows him, yanks receiver from one ear to the other, so he

can hear conversation.

Miriam crosses to gate, presses the necessary button and the

gate opens from them.  Sonny watches this carefully, noting

where the buzzer button is.  He crosses in front of the drawer

at the first cage.  He tries to open the drawer.

It's obviously locked.

Sylvia comes forward and unlocks the first drawer, and begins

to remove the cash, but Sonny grabs her hands...  alarmed...

He grabs a piece of paper or cardboard...

CLOSE SHOT - SONNY'S HANDS AND CASH IN DRAWER

He takes all the singles but one out of the singles slot in

the drawer, leaving the bottom single in place.  It is held

there by a metal clip.  He carefully slips the paper under

the clip and then removes the single.

It is clear this is an automatic alarm - meanwhile...

BACK TO SHOT OF SONNY AND SYLVIA AND MIRIAM

as they move to 2nd cash drawer at 2nd teller's cage.  Sylvia

unlocks the drawer and starts to reach in for the cash, but

Sonny pushes his hand into the drawer instead.  He begins to

stuff the money into the bag.  Some fives, packaged with

rubber bands, in the drawer, he holds up so Sal and all can

see them... He laughs!

He throws it into the air so the bills flutter all around

him, gaily... In the background, Mulvaney, having finished

with the phone conversation, is moving to the rear with the

rest of the girls.  Sonny now moves to the 3rd cage's cash

drawer... Mulvaney ends phone conversation and Sal moves him

over to group at vault.

Again, the same procedure begins.  Sylvia unlocks the cash

drawer and Sonny starts to scoop it out and put it into the

opened plastic bag that Miriam holds.

At this point, THE PHONE BEGINS TO RING AGAIN (#2)

Again, Mulvaney starts to cross back to his desk, again

followed by Sal.  Sonny yells out to Mulvaney as he crosses

to answer the phone.

They move to Drawer #4.

MULVANEY ON THE PHONE

BACK ON SONNY, SYLVIA AND MIRIAM

They cross toward the last drawer area (#5).  Miriam is still

crying silently.  Sonny holds out the plastic bag for the

checks for her.  She drops it.

With everything in the bag, Sonny now takes the register and

starts to move the two girls toward the rear near the vault.

BACK TO SONNY

as he moves toward the rear (Sylvia and Miriam now re-joining

other women), to get a wastebasket.  Accomplishing this, he

starts to burn the pages of the register, tearing out pages

as he does so.  It's smokey as hell, but not burning well.

He drops it, smoking, into the wastebasket.

Howard is unable to move.  Seeing his predicament, Edna moves

to him and starts to unfasten his belt to remove the keys.

Mulvaney continues with his phone conversation.

ON SONNY

who now crosses to Howard and Edna, losing patience with the

situation.  As he moves closer, Howard backs away from him,

frightened by his rifle.  Seeing that, Sonny puts it down

and looks over to Sal for coverage.

As Sonny approaches Howard, he realizes that he can't get

close enough.

Howard gives him the keys and as Sonny starts to walk back

toward the burning register...

ON SAL

with Mulvaney still on the phone.

ON SONNY

who now starts to move quickly toward the front of the bank,

being sure to hide behind the posts as he moves.

Sonny has now reached the front of the bank.  He carefully

peeks out through the closed draperies to look outside.

ANGLE ON STREET - SONNY'S POV

A man, in a business suit, sweaty and harassed-looking, is

walking from an insurance office across the street directly

toward the bank... The man continues coming straight toward

them and us...

REVERSE

Sonny starts to run back to get his gun from Margaret's desk.

Mulvaney is still on the phone.

Sonny grabs the gun from the desk top and moves over to

Mulvaney.

ANGLE ON DOOR AT FRONT OF BANK

The man walks straight toward the glass door, already lifting

his hand to shadow his eyes, so when he reaches the door,

he'll be able to see inside.

REVERSE ON SAL AND MULVANEY

Sal brings the gun up so he can shoot the man, at the same

time, crabbing himself aside so he is concealed behind

Mulvaney and the desk.  Mulvaney sees the approaching man

and cups his hand over the phone.

ON MAN

The last few feet from the door.

ON SONNY

who rushes through the teller's cages gate toward the

register, grabs the smoking register, throws it onto the

floor near Edna's desk, and starts to stamp it out.

Before anyone can move, Sonny grabs the gun on them all.

The women now begin to scream as real hysteria sets in.

Deborah screams, collapses.

CLOSE - ON SAL

BRINGING GUN UP ON:

DOOR

The man actually kicks the glass with his foot, then leans

against the glass, shades his eyes, trying to see in.

SOUND of hanging up.  The man is looking all around.

SAL AND MULVANEY

ON HOWARD

who is useless.

ON MULVANEY

who starts to move toward the front door, looking over at

Sonny trying to put out the fire.

CAMERA FOLLOWS MULVANEY TO THE FRONT DOOR; Sonny moves with

him, covering him all the time.

ANGLE ON FRONT DOOR

as Sonny stands behind closed venetian blinds to listen to

the conversation and to cover Mulvaney.

Sonny hands him the keys.

VERY CLOSE SHOT - SAL

He raises the gun and sights it now, and in this moment, we

should sense a kind of luxurious relaxation into anticipation

on Sal's part.  He is smiling a little, and for the first

time, looks happy, and that's what makes him seem dangerous.

He's looking forward to an excuse to kill.  It's here now:

survival.  There is something almost sexual about the way he

settles his body down behind the weapon, getting ready for

the squeeze on the trigger, the report, the violent shove of

recoil against his muscles and sinews.

In the background, we see Sylvia bringing Howard a cup of

water.

ANGLE ON DOOR

emphasizing the small of Mulvaney's back.  The man is somebody

he knows from across the street.  He looks worried and

mystified...

Silence.  Sam stares around... thinking.

He's not satisfied, but he can't see anything and he can't

think of anything more to say, so...

Mulvaney locks the door and walks inside the bank, giving

the keys back to Sonny.

Mulvaney and Sonny starts to walk back toward Sal.  As they

do, the PHONE BEGINS TO RING AGAIN (#3).

Mulvaney shrugs helplessly.  Picks up the phone, standing at

desk opposite his.

ON SAL

MULVANEY ON PHONE

TWO SHOT - SONNY & SAL

As Sal starts to herd them into the vault (Sylvia helping

Howard, still with the cup of water), Mulvaney is still on

the phone.  Sonny moves down to get the money bag atop the

teller's cages and we hear Mulvaney on phone.

ANGLE AT VAULT

The girls are afraid; Miriam unlocks the gate as Sonny uses

Mulvaney's keys to the matching lock.

Sylvia, helping Howard, is the last to go through the gate.

As Sonny is about to lock the gate, she turns to him.

As Sylvia starts to move out, Sonny starts to cross ahead of

her.

Mulvaney finishes his phone conversation.  He moves toward

the group at the vault.

NEW ANGLE

as Sonny sprints for the door to the Ladies' Room.

INSIDE LADIES' ROOM

It is a little lounge; sitting on a couch under the window,

making up her face (or painting her toenails) and listening

to her tiny transistor radio, oblivious to all that's

happened, is MARIA, heavily-painted and voluptuous Latin

girl.  Sylvia, following him in, is shocked.  She's forgotten

about Maria.  Now she runs over to her, puts her arms around

her.

Maria is about to protest, but Sylvia grabs her and starts

to hustle her out.

He moves with them back to the vault area, herds them into

it.  At this point, PHONE RINGS AGAIN (#4).  Sonny moves to

get the empty wastebasket, shoving it into the vault for the

girls to use in case of emergency.  Mulvaney moves to his

desk and phone.

Mulvaney has by this time answered the phone, and is now

holding it out to Sonny.  HOLD THE BEAT...

ON SONNY AND SAL

They both stare at Mulvaney.  Sonny slowly moves toward

Mulvaney.  For the first time since he entered the bank,

he's quiet and slow.  He takes the instrument and slowly

puts it to his ear.  The group from the vault now slowly

starts to move out to listen to the conversation.

Sonny turns and looks out through the door.  Sure enough, in

the window of the barbershop across the street, the dim figure

of a man on a telephone can be SEEN looking out toward us.

He wears a hat in spite of the weather and a cigar is clamped

in his mouth.  He is an old-time, hard-nosed, uneducated,

street-wise, sarcastic New York cop, outspoken, rude and

sentimental.  Right now he's a distant silhouette and a voice

on the telephone.

CLOSE ON SONNY

holding the phone.  Listening to the voice of his death

speaking in New York accents.

Sonny slowly, almost sadly, puts the telephone receiver back

down, cutting off the little voice at the other end.  He

looks up at Mulvaney, then to Sal.

Sonny paces.

Sonny is pacing back and forth, trying to figure out what to

do.

PHONE STARTS TO RING (#5).

Phone continues to ring.  Sonny finally grabs it (desk

opposite Mulvaney).

A startled apologetic man's voice speaks: Now ANOTHER PHONE

BEGINS TO RING (#6).

Sonny abruptly holds the phone out from his body at arm's

length, disgusted.

Nobody moves.  They all stare at him.  Finally he singles

her out.

Jenny starts to move toward Sonny.

OTHER PHONE CONTINUES TO RING (#6).

As he puts down the phone for her to pick up, Sonny reaches

for the other phone that is RINGING.

He hangs up the phone.  Sal looks at him.

At this moment, Jenny, phone in hand, is turned to him,

respectfully like a child in an authoritarian household,

addressing her father:

ON SONNY

stares at her.  For the first time, he realizes how frightened

she is, how serious, grotesque, and funny it all is.  He

takes the time to be tender with her, as though she were a

not-too-bright child in the presence of a tragedy she'll

never understand.

Now Sonny turns to speak to Mulvaney.

Sonny disappears toward the back door.  Jenny continues her

phone conversation.

Now Sonny returns from the rear door area, sees that she's

still on the phone and signals to her to hurry up.

Jenny hesitates.  Everyone is looking at her.  They look

away, as though to give her privacy.

A beat of silence.  Realizes she can't talk...

She hangs up and then crosses to the group by the vault.

NEW ANGLE

on Sonny as he moves to Sal, to reassure Sal out of some

guiltiness about trapping him in this situation.  His tone

apologetic... almost tender...

Now Sonny moves over to the group at the vault gate and speaks

to them.

Sonny now turns toward Mulvaney.  Howard lies down, head on

jacket, in the vault.

Sal takes a position where he can cover the door and also

the girls and Howard.

NEW ANGLE

as Sonny and Mulvaney move toward the rear of the bank.

At some point in their move toward the rear door, Sylvia

exits the Ladies' room and moves back toward the group.

They look at it.  It is big, black, steel and seems solid.

Sonny tests it.

He has found a big office machine, a Xerox or whatever, which

he now starts to push toward the door.  On the opposite side,

Mulvaney starts to pull it toward the door.  It's very heavy

and they have to strain to budge it at all.  Meanwhile:

Mulvaney has removed his suit jacket.

Sonny laughs and pushes the machine.  Mulvaney pulls from

the opposite side.

They have the machine almost to the door now, with Mulvaney

almost pinned between the machine and the door.  He eases

himself out.  Looks at the gun, then at Sonny, then they

shove the machine against the door.  Sonny then gives Mulvaney

his jacket to put on again.

Finished with the task, Sonny takes his gun and with Mulvaney,

they start to cross back toward Sal and the rest of the group.

Mulvaney crosses back to his desk and sits down.  At this

point, all the phones are off the hooks.

EXT. (AERIAL) ANGLE FROM INT. POLICE HELICOPTER (OVER BANK)

As it banks steeply we can see past Pilot to bank, and cops

around car.  We see a small crowd being held back by a few

police still setting up barricades.  It is the first

indication of the crowd event it became.  It also sets the

geography for us, but very quickly another copter swims into

view and the two circle each other.  The other copter --

only feet away -- is a TV news helicopter, with a big camera

sticking out the open door on our side.

It is turned down by the Cameraman to focus on the bank.  A

COP in the police helicopter yells through his bullhorn at

the TV Cameraman.

The TV Cameraman swivels his camera up to focus on the Cop,

and as the lens hits us dead center...

INT. APARTMENT NEAR BANK

Though an open window a fire escape can be seen and beyond

it an angle of street and the bank.  Near the window in a

corner is a TV set, and on the TV set we are seeing the shot

of the police helicopter and the Cop yelling on the bullhorn

as seen from the TV copter.  A couple of Elderly Men are

sitting watching the TV set, ignoring the bank, which they

can see in the flesh, as it were.  Outside we are HEARING

the copters, and on the TV set likewise, and the voice of

the Announcer.

There is a HAMMERING at the door, and the men at the TV set

barely have time to look around before several burly Cops

wearing flak vests and helmets and carrying sniper rifles

with telescopic slights move through the room, ignoring the

men.  They move out onto the fire escape, a couple going up

higher, settling themselves down to aim in their rifles on

the front of the bank.  A lot of AD LIB dialogue, but what

we note is the Cops, as a man, take a look at themselves on

the TV.

EXT. BANK - DAY

The FRAME is full of cop faces... tough, mesomorphic faces

with a layer of fat under the skin, increasing as age.  They

have the look of cops: alert, curious, weighing.  They are

city cops; they don't have that old-fashioned condemnatory

expression, there is an element of playfulness in their nature --

the fact is they love their work, which is criminals.  There

is a peculiar delight in ferreting out the criminal impulse

in everybody, and a matching fury in punishing it -- which

is the action of repressing their own strongly developed

criminal unconscious.  These are tense, funny, violent, and

rigidly controlled men.

MORETTI is an old-line cop, a lot more relaxed than the

younger men and the cold professionals of the FBI, who as a

group resemble astronauts, and like them hide (but do not

deny) the psychic chaos underneath.

Right now they are looking at the sky.  We HEAR a heavy

helicopter track.

We feature SHELDON, the silver-haired FBI Agent-in-Charge,

who looks like an accountant, and Moretti, with hat and cigar,

and a face out of Warner Brothers movies of the Forties.  In

spite of Sheldon's age, Moretti plays though he's a smart

kid who still needs a little help.

Sheldon is getting out of a gray car, wears a gray suit.

Three men with him are carbon copies of him at younger ages.

The three hang around him.  They approach Moretti who looks

at them without moving.

Moretti looks at him, cheerfully sarcastic.

They are moving past Cops on the corner heading toward a

small barbershop across the street from the bank.  We now

sense the growing crowd, standing quietly, just staring not

yet knowing what's going on.

NEW ANGLE

From down the street come a group of odd-looking men in suits,

carrying all kinds of electric junk: The NEW REPORTERS.

They run heavily, sweating martinis and cigarette smoke...

they run up to Moretti and Sheldon, who walk along, trying

not to catch an eye.

MOVING SHOT - MORETTI AND SHELDON AMONG NEWSMEN.

They have arrived at the barber shop where Moretti fights

his way inside.

INT. BARBER SHOP - DAY

A COP is talking on the wall phone as MORETTI, BAKER, etc.

are trying to get inside.

He hangs up and immediately begins thumbing through a POCKET

PHONE BOOK.  Throughout this Cop is engaged in personal

business on the fringe of this affair, and though he's on

duty he hardly knows what's happening on the robbery.  He's

trying to get his brother-in-law with the ice cream truck

down here, etc.

Moretti has got the crowd cleared back, so that now we SEE

why this has been chosen as a tactical command post.  From

here, while talking on the phone, Moretti can see the bank,

and through the uncurtained door he can even see some distance

inside.

Moretti picks up the phone.

Moretti is already dialing.  The phone is answered.

INT. BANK - DAY

(Re Moretti's 3rd conversation on phone with Sonny.)

The group inside the bank have now been waiting approximately

twelve minutes since anything last happened.  Sonny is seated

at Mulvaney's desk, all the phones off the hooks.

The rest of the group is huddled around the vault area where

Sal is keeping his eye on them.

Suddenly, Sonny jumps up and puts all the receivers back on

the hooks, crossing back to sit at Mulvaney's desk again.

PHONE STARTS TO RING and Sonny picks it up.

A cop passing by presses a portable two-way radio into

Moretti's hand: He accepts it and holds as though he expected

it.  The Cop passes the same type of set to certain other

officers.  These sets are tuned in to each other, and

throughout the movie, there is a constant background talk on

these sets.  This is police procedure; the orders are for

everyone to talk about everything.  If anyone has a question,

has heard a rumor or a sound, whatever, it is immediately

responded to, so that there can be the fewest possible

surprises.  Sample dialogue might go: "Did I hear a shot?"

"Over here, by the bank, there was a report like a gunshot,

inside."  "Roger, we heard that from the barbershop... it

was inside the bank."  "Barbershop, you can see inside?"

"Roger, we heard from the barbershop... it was inside the

bank."  "Barbershop, you can see inside?"  "Roger, this is

the barbershop, we see inside, the perpetrator is moving

toward the rear of the bank."  "Who's that guy walking through

the barricade?"  "The blue suit?"  "Yeah."  "Off-duty

Inspector come down to see can you use him."  Etc.  They

really do use the word Perpetrator, Felon, etc.  The Cop

handing out radios makes Moretti sign for it -- which Moretti

does during the following:

Sonny hangs up and moves over to Sal.  The rest of the group

has been trying to make out what's being said at the other

end of the conversation.

Now Sonny looks at the group.

Mulvaney now stands up at his desk, looks over at the group

near the vault.  They look back at him, waiting for some

instructions.

They are now unified.  Sonny whispers something to Sal.

Sylvia takes Howard by the arms and starts to lead him toward

the front door.  Sal watches as they move toward front door.

Sonny moves with them toward the front door, his gun aimed

at them during the walk.

Finally they arrive, and Howard moves toward the door by

himself.  But the door is obviously locked.

Sonny gives her the keys.

Sonny covers Sylvia as she moves to unlock the front door

for Howard.

ANGLE OUTSIDE DOOR

As Howard is pushed out the door by Sylvia, a cop from a

nearby car rushes up to him and shoves him to a curbside car

where he bends Howard over the car, putting his hands behind

him for handcuffs and starts to frisk him.

HOWARD'S POV - QUICK CUTS

About 100 weapons ranging from machine guns to hand guns to

sniper rifles are whipped up and pointed straight at his

chest and head.  The effect is as though he is about to be

blown entirely away.

ANGLE ON THE BARBER SHOP

Moretti rushes out, screaming to the cop with Howard.

THE RADIO NETWORK SCREAMS

VARIOUS COPS

Confusion reigns.  They don't know if the perpetrator or

not, since they haven't yet seen Sal or Sonny.  Guns  are

up, aimed, being pushed down... Cops run for better vantage

points.

ANGLE ON HOWARD

as Moretti reaches him.  He pulls the cop away from him and

starts to give him hell for the rough treatment being given

the guard.

ANGLE IN DOOR OF BANK

With Sylvia in doorway, staring wildly at the street scene.

Sonny is beside her covering her with his rifle.

VARIOUS ANGLES

as the cops slowly realize their mistake.  They stand back

from Howard, who is virtually catatonic with fear and shock

now.  They get him up, a reluctant to believe they could

have made such a mistake...

ANGLE ON TV CAMERAMAN

Near barber shop, across the street, jockeying, trying to

focus in on him, elbowing each other, they yell out:

LOW ANGLE - HELICOPTER (TO AND FROM)

swings in over street to try for a shot.  Howard is being

taken in the direction of the barber shop.

MORETTI

to Cops.

DOOR OF BANK

Sonny back in the shadows with Sylvia, looking at Moretti,

appalled.

ON MORETTI

Behind him a mob scene.  Howard is being led away, weeping.

Photographers, cops, a phalanx of cops have their weapons

levelled on Sonny like a firing squad.  It is right on the

edge of violence... of blowing up.  Sonny and Sylvia are in

the shelter of the doorway, Moretti stands on the sidewalk,

looking toward Sonny inside the bank.

At this point, he removes his jacket and drops it to the

ground, showing Sonny that he is unarmed.

Sonny turns back to tell Sal he's going outside.  Moretti

stands well out in the street, to reassure Sonny nobody is

going to try to jump him.  Sonny stares around; he nudges

Sylvia out ahead of him.  As they edge into sight of the

Media across the street:

ANGLES - SHOWING CROWDS

straining against police lines: this is where we begin to

sense the size of the event.  People are eating popsicles

and ice cream.  They are diverted and excited.  Sonny and

Sylvia begin to emerge: CATCALLS and HOOTS of greeting...

CLOSER - SONNY AND SYLVIA

as he looks around, and the impact of his situation really

hits him: he's not only totally surrounded, he's an event.

Some of the crowd CHEER him.  An army of Cops, and guns all

levelled on Sonny.

Sonny stares at him, his face utterly blank.

Moretti stops, stares back.

Gestures at the cops, the wall of rifles and machine guns

levelled on him.  It is incredible and terrifying...

He takes a defiant step into the street.  The crowd SCREAMS

as they get their first view, which is of Sonny telling the

Cops off.  They don't need to hear the words, they can see

it.

He holds his hands wide offering himself as a target to the

hulking officer.

He means it.  Moretti gestures to the officers to back away,

lower the guns.  The crowd YELLS: Sonny has beat the Cops.

He is momentarily their hero.

It's a breaking point.  Moretti makes a decision.

He has to YELL it twice before the Cop slowly, angrily, stuffs

the gun into his holster.

SOUND: The crowd screams.

ON SONNY

hearing the Crowd APPLAUSE.  He turns and grins and waves to

them.  They SCREAM more.  He turns and waves to the media.

They've been YELLING.

It is at this point that newsman leans out a window of the

second floor of the bank, quickly lowering a mike boom.

Sylvia sees this above her head.

ON MORETTI

unhappy, looking around at Sheldon, who shrugs.  He did what

he had to do.

ON SONNY

Suddenly realizing what control he has, enjoying it.  He

turns mockingly his left and his right profile to cameras.

INT. TENEMENT HALLWAY

A FAT WOMAN runs heavily, stumbling, a delighted grin on her

face, up the stairs PAST CAMERA, yelling to someone unseen

upstairs.

INT. VI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Small, jammed with little things of sentimental value and

cheap furniture, clean, but well-worn.  VI, a small woman in

her fifties, with a perpetual smile, and the sweating Fat

Woman trot in, just as Vi's HUSBAND, a dour man in his

fifties, is exiting.

He hesitates in the doorway as the two women rush to the TV

which is already on, the station showing live coverage of

the bank robbery.  On SCREEN, Sonny can be seen ordering the

cops around.  Moretti looks furious.

ON THE TV SET

IMAGE OF SYLVIA ON TV

He reaches for TV to turn it off.  Vi stops him.

NEW IMAGE

Sonny returning toward bank.

EXT. BANK - DAY

TWO SHOT - SONNY AND MORETTI

as they shake hands.  As Sonny starts into the bank first,

he holds the door open, waiting for Sylvia.  In the meantime,

the 2nd-floor media man yells down to her.

Sonny, waiting patiently, holds door open for her.

And she walks through the door past Sonny and into the bank.

Moretti yells up at the media to get the hell away and at

the same time, turns to a nearby cop and gives orders for

the air conditioning to be turned off inside the bank.

As the crowd realizes what has happened, they APPLAUD and

SCREAM.  At the door:

ANGLE IN BANK DOOR

as Sonny turns to grin and wave back at crowd.

INT. BANK - DAY

as Sonny and Sylvia walk into bank and head for the group at

the rear.  Mulvaney is seated at his desk, but the rest of

the girls are standing around the vault area.

Sylvia heads for the girls as Sonny walks toward Sal.

Sonny makes reassuring gesture to let him know Howard is

safe.

Mulvaney turns on the TV set.  In the meantime, Sylvia has

reached the other girls.

And Sylvia begins to recount the events out on the street,

mainly about herself as a television celebrity.

ANGLE ON TV SET

as we see the image of a TV NEWSMAN across the street.  Then,

as his director CUTS, we will see on the TV set an

ANGLE ON THE BANK AS SEEN FROM ACROSS THE STREET.

The TV Cameraman ZOOMS and the TV image ZEROES IN through

the door to show a partially-screened but quite clear image

of Sonny, talking to Sal.

ON SAL

absorbing this...

THE PHONE BEGINS TO RING.

Mulvaney answers the phone.

SONNY

serious, nodding to Sal.

Sonny turns, trying to understand...

NEW ANGLE

He holds out the phone.  Sonny walks over to him and takes

the receiver.  On the TV screen, we can see him doing this.

Jenny now edges over and sits on top of Edna's desk.

At that instant, the TV screen switches to a PLEASE STAND BY

card and we hear an announcer's voice over:

Sonny hangs up the phone, looks at Mulvaney, puzzled at the

outcome of the conversation.

Sonny now moves over to Sal.

PHONE RINGS.

PHONE CONTINUES TO RING.

Sonny now walks over to the ringing phone on Edna's desk.

Jenny, sitting on top of the desk, thinks the call is from

her husband, starts to reach for it but as she does, Sonny

grabs it away from her.

It's a heavy adhesive voice that can be heard clearly

throughout the bank.

Sonny slams down the receiver, looks around at the group.

He crosses over to Sal.

Edna exits ladies room as Sonny crosses back to the phone,

picks it up.

Now Sonny turns and speaks to the group.

Sonny slams the phone down and walks over to Sal, rifle still

in his hands.

Sonny starts to walk toward the door.  As he does, Sal calls

back to him.

Sonny realizes what he's saying and crosses back to Sal and

hands him the gun, then moves toward the front door.

EXT. BANK - DAY

Much as before.  Sonny steps out.  The guns start to come

up.

The Cops lower their weapons.  Moretti comes out on the

sidewalk.  He's eating an ice cream bar, and stands seemingly

at ease, an island of calm control in a storm of passion

about to be let loose.  The Cops are always about to explode.

Sonny is about to open his mouth when a medium-size dark-

haired Man who has been standing among people behind the

barriers puts his head down and runs at astonishing speed

right across the street towards Sonny.  He catches everybody

so by surprise he is already on Sonny before anyone can do

more than start to yell at him to stop.  Sonny, himself,

can't believe it!  He is slammed to the ground and the Man

begins to punch him and beat him viciously.  Cops charge in

and with great difficulty pull him off.

YELLING on the radio network; TV Reporters and the crowd up

and SCREAMING for blood!

CLOSE ANGLE

as Moretti steps in.  Sonny gets up, dazed.  The Man goes on

kicking and fighting Cops...

ANGLE SHOWING DOOR OF BANK

Mulvaney stands in the door...

He means Sal.  Sonny, dazed and bleeding, reels to the door

and calls in... Sal now stands alone behind 3rd pillar.

He turns back to face Moretti, Sylvia, Mulvaney.

CLOSE - SONNY

Looking around, bewildered, the crowd is YELLING and now it

sounds unfriendly.  He is really shaken up... He shakes

himself -- stops that line and starts over in a business-

like tone.

Sonny looks him in the eye.  Suddenly he makes kissing motions

and sounds with his lips.  We know what he's referring to:

he thinks Moretti's trying to fuck him over.

Sonny smiles and pantomimes kissing.

EXT. ROCKAWAY BEACH - DAY

There's Heidi.  Her body lies exactly as before, baking in

the sun.  The transistor RADIO plays... she seems to be

asleep...

Heidi sits bolt upright, stares at the radio, which continues

to blather on.  Abruptly she begins to gather up her things,

her children, in a characteristically scatter-brained and

hyperactive sort of way.  Heidi is a one woman panic:  she

hustles away across the broiling sand carrying the radio

wadded up in towels, and lugging a child, crying helplessly,

by one elbow, as though it were a handle, a silhouette against

the late afternoon sun, out of Fellini... meanwhile on the

SOUND TRACK we are hearing her voice.  It is a breathless,

harsh childish voice that pours out the words in a torrent:

She is stumping off into the sunset as she says these words

and we

EXT. BROOKLYN STREET - DAY

Out of a subway crowd, she struggles, pulling the two kids

by the hand, a very ordinary woman in a most ordinary New

York scene...

EXT. HEIDI'S APARTMENT HOUSE - DAY

A working class block, dirty, shops in the first floor, three

story walk-ups above... Heidi appears and runs up the stoop.

TWO COPS get out of a squad car where they've been staked

out and move up to her.  They never really get in a word

edgewise.  They follow her into the hall... Now as we CUT

CLOSER to her, we will SEE Heidi's mouth in SYNC with the

words...

INT. HALL - DAY

Heidi struggles up the stairs, dragging the kids -- the cops

following...

She's got her door unlocked.  Below and on the stairs behind

the Cops, curious neighbors peer in...

INT. HEIDI'S APARTMENT - DAY

Chaos out of cut-rate furniture stores.  Full of unwashed

glasses, kids' clutter.  Throughout, the children rush around

unchecked.  Neighbors enter without ceremony and listen.

The Cops stand, trying vainly to communicate... As they

enter...

INT. BANK - LATE AFTERNOON - APPROX. 5 PM

The group is now situated like this:

1) MULVANEY'S DESK - the TV is on; seated in his chair, filing

her nails is MIRIAM.

Seated to her left, having pulled the chair a patron uses,

is MARIA, watching TV and listening to her transistor radio,

against her left ear, at the same time.

MULVANEY (at back water cooler - will eventually move back

to his desk, sit down to Miriam's right.)

2) EDNA - is now behind the Tellers' cages, straightening up

the mess; she picks up the loose money that Sonny had

scattered thru the air, puts them into packets and ties them

with rubber bands.

3) SAL - is seated in the rear Conference room, still holding

his rifle, feet up on the table.

4) MULVANEY & DEBORAH - at the rear water cooler (from which

she will move to see what's wrong with Margaret)

5) MARGARET - seated at her desk, obviously ill, wiping her

forehead, head bowed.

6) SYLVIA and JENNY - at far right table, doing a crossword

puzzle.

7) SONNY - pacing back and forth Mulvaney's desk, posing a

legal puzzle for Maria.

Sonny, his gun now lying across the top of Mulvaney's desk,

is pacing back and forth between the desk areas.  He's talking

to Maria in particular, but anyone in earshot in general.

Deborah crosses to Margaret who is ill.  Deborah goes to

Sylvia - who returns with her her to Margaret.

It should begin getting dark in through here.  It is very

hot and sweaty in the bank.  OPEN SCENE ON:

CLOSE MULVANEY ON PHONE

He is sweating, worried.  He is listening to a conversation

we can HEAR... as it goes on SHOT WIDENS to reveal the others

in various postures of waiting.  Sal more disheveled, Sonny's

restlessness is unabated; he paces about like a caged animal.

The voice on the phone is breathy and youthful: Sonny has

been listening for a long time.

Sonny is desperate to get off the phone but doesn't dare

risk the wrath of God by hanging up on this guy.  He might

have the secret after all.

Sonny hangs up.  Deborah moves to Margaret, who is ill.  She

goes to tell Sylvia who immediately crosses to Margaret.

ANGLE ON MARGARET & SYLVIA

Sonny runs around, notices her - sees that air conditioner

is off.

Sonny and Mulvaney start to move out toward the back door

area.

At this point, Sal calls out to Sonny, and gets up to move

to him.

And Sonny and Mulvaney exit toward rear of bank.

INT. BANK - BACK DOOR AREA - LATE AFTERNOON (APPROX. 5 PM)

Sonny and Mulvaney move toward the back door and stop under

a trap door in the ceiling.  Mulvaney looks up at it.

As Sonny is staring up at the trap door, thinking about what

to do, he hears a tiny scratching SOUND.

Sonny, tensing like an animal, peers around wildly to locate

the source of the little scratching SOUND: like mice at a

steel door.

ON SONNY

who quickly runs back toward the desk area.

ON GROUP - DESKS' AREA

Sonny races back in, grabs the gun from atop Mulvaney's desk,

and with the cartridge in the other hand, runs back toward

the back door again, jamming cartridge into rifle.

At this point, Sal runs in from the Conference room, covering

everyone point-blank again, yelling for Edna to join the

rest of the group.

Edna quickly obeys, moving quickly to the rest of the group.

ON BACK DOOR AREA

as Sonny races toward Mulvaney and back door with gun.

ANGLE ON MULVANEY

Somebody or something is working on the other side of the

door!

NEW ANGLE ON SONNY

as he moves back from the door, turns and levels the rifle

on the back door...

ON SONNY

staring at the door.  He hears the continued scratching noise

and might even see the door knob move.

Abruptly he swings the rifle up so the bullet going through

will clearly go over the head of any man, out through the

transom.

He FIRES.

ANGLE ON INSIDE - SAL AND GROUP

They all scream, some of them falling to the floor, huddling

together in terror.

SONNY - AND GROUP

Sonny races back into main area where Sal covers group.

EXT. BANK - REAR DOOR - LATE DAY

A knot of half a dozen police are working at the door.  Two

were trying to work tubes under it to pump in gas, others

were trying a nylon line to the doorknob, the idea being

that if Sonny came out that way, the moment he began to open

the door the cops would yank it open, exposing him completely

and gun him down.  The cops SCREAM as the SHOT comes through

the door, showering them with brick fragments.  They scramble

over cars, over each other, over fences, running into other

cops, who also, not knowing what's happening, turn and flee,

running into the crowd, which panics.

VARIOUS ANGLES

on men, women, children, cops, detectives, dogs, cats,

reporters, all in the area of the rear of the bank fleeing

in waves over fences, cars, etc.  A flood of people like

lemmings.  This is INTERCUT BY:

INT. BANK

1) MARGARET fainting.

2) SAL herds group into vault area.

3) SONNY dashing back and forth into rear bank area.

ANGLE ON BARBER SHOP

Moretti, Sheldon, others come charging out, wondering what

the hell, pulling guns out.

BACK OF BANK

The cops, safely distanced and back in cover, peek out at:

BANK DOOR

It is okay.

ON MORETTI

reaches out his hand for a bullhorn that is thrust into it

immediately.

A few louts in the crowd yell out in imitation:

Moretti shrugs off his irritation and raises the bullhorn

one more time: the crowd is ready and SCREAMS in unison as

Moretti says:

You could hear it for a half a mile!

Sonny starts to yell at Moretti.

Sonny walks over to Sal, gives him the rifle.

ANGLE ON BANK

as Sonny comes charging out.

Sonny turns and walks back into the bank.

INT. BANK - DAY

ANGLE ON SAL WITH THE GROUP

as Sonny enters and walks toward Sal.

He now walks behind Tellers' cages and picks up some of the

decoy money that Edna had started to clean up and re-stack.

Mulvaney walks over to him.

Sonny walks to the front door with the money.

EXT. BANK DOOR - DAY

as Sonny appears in it.

NEW ANGLE TO REVEAL THE DELIVERY BOY

guarded by a couple of cops.

Sonny grabs bills from the wad he holds and thrusts them at

him.

As the cops reach for the money, knowing it's bank money,

people in the crowd yell:

Sonny holds up the money.  The crowd cheers.  He throws the

wad of bills and it scatters in the air.

The WIND is blowing now.  Even some cops join the ensuing

melee to gather it up...

VARIOUS ANGLES

as cops move forward and try to catch the bills.  Some blow

into the crowd.  Fights break out in the crowd as they

scramble for the money.  The crowd breaks the barriers and

swarms after the cash.  Cops try to retrieve bills; fist

fights, arrests.

MORETTI

staring at the mess.

Sonny also watching the people.

There is in both of them the same reaction of faint disgust

at the greed unleashed.  Sonny angrily hurls another bundle

after the first... then laughs as he watches the people

fighting.

Moretti nods ironically at him.  Sonny turns and enters the

bank with the food.  The fighting goes on in the street.

INT. BANK - DAY

as Sonny enters carrying food.

He puts it down in front of Mulvaney, on Mulvaney's desk.

Mulvaney looks at it, sickly.  As Mulvaney looks up at Sonny:

EXT. SIDEWALK NEAR BANK - DAY

Moretti, Sheldon, other top cops march fast-time toward the

barrier where uniformed cops stand around a limousine that

has drawn up to the barrier.  It is full of white-haired

officials, one of them the COMMISSIONER.  He has a voice

broken by whiskey, cigars, good food and yelling at football

games.

DOLLY AT A LOW DRAMATIC ANGLE WITH MORETTI AND ETC.

It looks like they may be going into action.  Moretti's

attitude is not that subtly different now he's talking to

brass.  Commissioner doesn't get out; he talks through window.

The Commissioner's hand, pudgy and freckled with age, covers

Moretti's where it rests on the door: he massages Moretti's

hand fondly.

A lot of comfortable CHUCKLES inside the limo.  The

Commissioner's hand lingers on Moretti's -- they are fond of

each other, these men, linked in a relationship of a lifetime

of shared experience, of attitudes, of maleness -- an

accumulation of years of jokes about being late for dinner,

of women waiting and women panting with desire, men secure

in the bastion of their roles.  What is being passed on here

is a purely emotional force of approval and acceptance from

top to bottom of a social institution that is the last totally

masculine society: police.  The homosexual content of this

should not be lost: it lies in the comfortable fit of their

feelings, in the fact, simply, that they love each other,

for what they share.

He leans down to get close to his commissioner, because he's

not fooled by the camaraderie into a false sense of security.

TIGHTER TWO SHOT - MORETTI AND COMMISSIONER

The Commissioner nods - presses a button and the window goes

up to keep the air conditioning in and the heat out.

INT. BANK - LATE AFTERNOON - APPROX. 5 PM - MAIN BANK AREA

as we hear Jenny on the phone with her husband.  Sonny is

doing the manual of arms with his rifle.

At one point, Sonny starts to show Miriam how to hold the

gun and in mock seriousness, she tries to do the manual of

arms.

WE DRIFT TOWARD THE BACK CONFERENCE ROOM

where Sal is seated at the Conference table, rifle on the

table.  Edna and Sylvia are also seated there.  Maria enters.

Maria walks over to her, offering her one, then remembers:

Maria starts to hand one to her.

Sal gets up and starts to leave the room...

Sylvia grabs the cigarette from Maria.

Sonny continues with "Manual of Arms" business with rifle.

Mulvaney is on the phone.

Sonny takes the phone...

ON SONNY

He comes alert, looks around at Sal, nods, and starts for

the door of the bank, turns to Sal.

He exits bank.  Sal walks toward the door, stops behind the

first post.

EXT. FRONT OF APARTMENT HOUSE - DAY

The fire escape with the old lady and her jigsaw puzzle, the

flak vested snipers, etc.  Below in the street a police car

plows through the crowd with red lights flashing but no sirens --

or perhaps just a low growl to help move the human sea aside.

People are leaning over trying to see inside.

BARBER SHOP

Moretti and Sheldon and staff move out into the street.  The

cop car is moving through police lines, cops lifting

barricades aside to let it pass.

MOVING SHOT

with Moretti and others as they move to intercept the police

car where it will stop on the corner.  As they stop, we can

see Sonny step into the door of the bank, in the distance.

He is greeted with CHEERS from the crowd.  But is intent on

the car.

We are NOW SHOOTING ACROSS THE CAR, OVER MORETTI'S BACK TOWARD

THE BANK and Sonny.

The DRIVER of the police car gets out, with a huge grin on

his face and nods to Moretti.  The back door opens and another

cop gets out, also grinning.  They look around toward Sonny,

as his wife gets out of the police car, on this side.  She

is spectacularly good looking in a lithe cruel sort of way,

like Lauren Bacall, but right now she is a mess.

EXT. BANK

as Sonny sees Leon get out of the car.

ON LEON

who doesn't hear Sonny calling, the detectives and Moretti

start to take him to the barbershop.

They continue along the sidewalk.  Leon, coming to, starts

to look around him.  He sees Sonny.

ON SONNY

as he yells again to Leon.

ON LEON

who faints.

FULL SHOT

The crowd yelling in increasing waves of SOUND; Moretti and

cops pick up Leon and rush him toward the barbershop.

ANGLE ON SONNY

who dashes toward the bank door, enters.

INT. BANK - DAY

as Sonny comes running in.  Sylvia is now showing off her

new-found expertise with a cigarette to Miriam, Jenny and

Deborah, seated around Edna's desk.  (Deborah is talking on

the phone.)  Meanwhile, Edna is back in the Conference Room

with Mulvaney; Margaret is seated at her desk, speaking on

the phone; Maria, speaking on phone, is seated at Mulvaney's

desk - where television is still on.

Sonny, wanting to use a phone, realizes that all are in use,

rushes to a desk at the front of the bank.  Sal follows him

there.  Sonny grabs a phone.

INT. BARBERSHOP

where Moretti and cops are trying to revive Leon.  A cop at

the phone turns to Moretti.

Moretti walks over to phone, takes receiver from cop.

INT. BANK

Sonny waiting for Moretti to answer phone.

INT. BARBERSHOP

as Moretti hangs up phone and walks over to Leon, who now

has a glass of water and a cold towel.

Moretti walks over to the wall phone, picks up the receiver,

and waits to be connected with the bank and Sonny.

ON LEON

Terrified.  He really can't do it.

ON MORETTI

waiting.

OMITTED

INT. BANK - TURNING DARK NOW

as the phone rings.  Sonny picks it up, hears Moretti's voice.

Sonny hangs up.  He and Sal walk toward the group at the

rear, around the desks.

ANGLE ON TELEVISION SCREEN

as we see TV newsman speaking.

During the speech, Sylvia and her group wander toward

Mulvaney's desk to listen, as Edna wanders down from the

Conference Room, crosses to the set and turns up the volume.

ON SONNY

pacing back and forth.  They all stare at him.  Slowly the

group shifts to other positions, without a word being said.

ANGLE ON TV SCREEN

ANGLE ON SONNY AND SAL

SOUND OF JET

OMITTED

EXT. KENNEDY AIRPORT - NIGHT

FBI snipers area at positions, waiting.  A small group of

men make a last check.  A signal is given.  They get in their

car and drive away.  An FBI sniper lights a cigarette and

settles down to wait, moving his rifle to a comfortable

position.

EXT. APARTMENT HOUSE FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT

The old lady dozes over her puzzle.  The police agents are

being relieved.  Light floods the front of the bank.

INT. BANK - NIGHT (APPROX. 8 P.M.)

Sonny paces back and forth (with ad-lib dialogue to group).

Margaret, seated at her desk, has feet up on another chair

while Jenny sits on top of her desk.  Mulvaney is back at

water cooler, starting to feel very ill.  Miriam and Deborah

are seated at Mulvaney's desk.  Edna is seated at her desk,

while Sylvia sits on top of desk, talking on phone.

Suddenly, the lights go out, leaving only emergency lights

on (4 in the main area and 2 at back door area).  Sylvia

immediately moves over toward the vault area and turns on 2

hand lamps.

Both rush toward the front of the bank.  They see that even

the flood lights are now out, but across the street can still

be seen lights in the store windows.  Sonny rushes to a near-

by phone to try to reach Moretti, but even the phones are

dead.  They hear Moretti's voice over a bull-horn outside:

Sonny moves toward the front door.

INT. BARBERSHOP - DUSK/NIGHT

Moretti and Sheldon are in the barbershop.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

as the door opens and Sonny peeks out, the once-illuminating

floodlights now out.

There's no answer.  Sonny steps out into the street.  He

can't see anything anymore.  The atmosphere is suddenly

chillingly dangerous: the crowd SHOTS "come out of the dark"

and "we can't see from here".  The street seems empty except

for a few threatening silhouettes of heavily-armed cops.

Sonny responds with bluster.

He steps out farther into the street.  From behind him,

SHELDON, the FBI man, approaches.  He is alone.  Unsmiling.

Sonny dashes back into the bank.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

as Sonny rushes in, warns Sal about the FBI confrontation

he's about to have.

At this, he walks back toward the door and exits the bank

again.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

Sheldon is walking toward Sonny as the latter exits the bank.

As Sheldon reaches him.

Sonny comes around, looking for Moretti: can't see him.

Pause, while Sheldon thinks this over.

Sonny re-enters bank.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

Sonny goes over to Sal.

Sonny exits bank.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

Sonny crosses to Sheldon, grins, grabs him and executes a

very professional-looking pat-down search.

He removes Sheldon's .38 from a shoulder holster, producing

it for the crowd with a flourish like a magician: some of

the old playfulness returns for a moment.  He carefully and

with showbiz flourishes searches Sheldon's thighs and groin.

The crowd HOWLS.  Sheldon bears it with stoic calm.

CLOSE TWO SHOT

as Sonny stands up from the search and finds Sheldon's eyes

locked to his with flat calm.

The move toward the door of the bank, where Sonny opens the

door, preceding Sheldon, both men entering backwards.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

Except for the 4 emergency lights, it is very dark - and

very hot as Sonny and Sheldon enter the bank.  Sal now stands

behind the desks, covering Sheldon and the group assembled

at the vault.  Sheldon takes in every detail as he walks

toward the group in the rear, followed closely and covered

by Sonny.  As they near the desks, Sonny yells out an order

for the group:

TWO SHOT - SYLVIA AND SAL

She's pissed.

Sheldon is watching Sal, trying to gauge him.  This is the

first time anyone from outside has seen Sal.

Sheldon now walks closer to group, looking into the two small

examining rooms as he moves.  Sonny covers him every inch of

the way.

Sheldon is now standing very close to Sal.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

as they (Sheldon and Sonny) exit and stand in the doorway

out of earshot of the others.  Sheldon is matter-of-fact,

but insinuating and conspiratorial.

He starts to go.  Sonny grabs him.

And he turns and starts to walk away, leaving Sonny staring

after him.

INT. BARBER SHOP - NIGHT

as Sheldon steps into the door.  The place is jammed, Moretti

stands inside the door where Sonny could not have possibly

seen him.  Sheldon quietly turns and stands beside him, both

men looking back across the street.

Sheldon smiles the supercilious Ehrlichman smile of his.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

as Sonny re-enters.  He's restless, hyperactive, constantly

moving during this scene; a man with a potentially guilty

conscience.  Sal moves toward him and both men walk to area

in front of the Tellers' cages.

In the rear, Mulvaney slumps into a chair beside Margaret's

desk.  Sylvia rushes to help him, untying his tie, etc.

Maria runs into the Conference room, hoping to find remains

of sugar as Deborah crosses to his desk, looking through the

drawers for medication.  Jenny simply can't cope with it and

walks away.

Sonny starts to move toward the front door.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

Sonny rushes outside.

Sheldon and a young DOCTOR appear, concerned...

Sheldon turns, calls out.

A man comes forward - is frisked by Sonny, who then dumps

contents of his Black Bag and looks for weapons.  Sonny then

dashes inside bank.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

as Sonny comes in, walks over to Sal.

Sonny then rushes back outside bank again.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

Sonny crosses to Doctor.

The Doctor hustles past.  HOLD on Sheldon.

Sonny rushes back into Bank.

INT. BANK

Sonny rushes in.  The phone rings.  He picks it up.

Laughter from both Sonny and Leon.

INT. BANK

Sonny hangs up, walks back toward rear of bank and picks up

receiver again on Edna's desk.

HEIDI'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The TV is on, the kids up and racing around, neighbors pouring

beer -- An event!

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

he sits, dispiritedly listening to this rap: seeing her in a

clear and unambiguous light as before he saw Leon: what a

waste to live in the company of people like this!

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

ON SONNY

ON HEIDI

Heidi goes on and on, but Sonny just drops the phone on the

hook.  As he walks toward the rear of the bank, Sylvia, seated

atop Margaret's desk, gets off and follows Sonny toward the

Conference room.  At the same time, Edna is lifting Margaret's

feet up onto a chair and Jenny and Deborah start to walk

toward the Conference room, too.  Maria paces back and forth,

transistor to her ear.

Sonny walks into the Conference room.  The doctor is through

examining Mulvaney.  Miriam is seated across the table from

him.

Mulvaney waves, protesting.  He's had a shot; he's rapidly

recovering.

SONNY

As Sonny grabs him to try to help him up, Mulvaney wrenches

away.  A little physical here.

Maria and Miriam dance to transistor's music.  Edna walks

into Conference Room to tidy up.  Sal is still sitting there.

Deborah tries to comfort Jenny.

Sonny nods, staring at him.  As Doctor moves toward front

door Sonny walks with him.  Grabs marked bills and stuffs

them into the Doctor's pocket...

As Doctor tries to wave it away:

He's hustled him to the door, where he ushers him out door.

OMITTED

EXT. BANK (HIS POV) - A BANNER - NEW ANGLE [1ST GAY DEMO]

hastily made, about 40 feet long, being raised above the

heads of crowd to where Sonny can see it.  We can't read it

until it's all the way up.  Then is reads:

As the crowd reads it, fist fights break out and it totters

and staggers, but the defenders fight bravely... They are

ordinary looking people -- not freaks...

ON SONNY

looking at it, at them with mixed feelings.

ON SHELDON

standing across the street looking at him.  Sheldon indicates

his watch.  Holds up ten fingers: "ten minutes"...

ON SONNY

He turns into the bank.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

Sonny comes back into bank, his face mad with pain.  He walks

over to Sylvia, standing at open gate of Tellers'  Cages,

and brings out a wallet with pictures for her to see.

She takes it, smiles.

She looks over toward Mulvaney, now behind the Tellers' Cages,

trying to tidy up, and walks over to show him the pictures.

Sonny stands on the other side of the cages.

Sonny walks back toward Sal, who is seated in Conference

Room.

Sonny crosses back downstage again to Mulvaney and Sylvia.

Sonny walks back toward Sal.

But doubt hangs in the air like a pall...

CLOSEUP - SAL

looking at him.  Implacable.  This tension between them over

the question of Sonny's loyalty must be kept constantly alive

with CUTS and looks, over dialogue...

SYLVIA & MULVANEY

Sal turns to look at her reproachfully.

ON SYLVIA

Embarrassed, he walks toward the rest of group in the rear,

stands by Edna's desk.

Sonny exits Conference Room and moves downstage.

They think for a moment.

They stare at her incredulously.

Someone giggles.

Edna crosses to her desk - disgusted - and starts to tidy

up.

The giggle catches the edge of their panic and anxiety and

sweeps them into uncontrollable giggles and laughter: Sonny

roars.  Sal and Edna alone remain unsmiling.  After a few

seconds they force themselves to stop, to behave like they

should under the circumstances.  They are gasping and crying.

Then...

It sets them off again.  They howl and giggle and laugh.

Until at last they run down again.  At this point, Sal rushes

out of Conference Room.

He has seen something in the middle of the street, and now...

NEW ANGLE

as they all turn to look out through the door.

THEIR POV

Backlighted by the floodlights in the middle of street

escorted by Sheldon, stands a figure, dumpy and gray,

tentatively waving, a figure that bends over baby carriages

in the park, picks beans one by one out of supermarket bins,

lip reads get-well cards in pharmacies.

They hear Sheldon, outside, on bullhorn:

But as a dutiful son he starts for the front of the bank.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

as Sonny walks to his MOTHER.  Baker tactfully moves away,

leaving the two of them in the center of the floodlighted

street.  Again the crowd can be HEARD but not seen; armed

police fringe the lights and shadows, in B.G.

Sonny abruptly realizes he is getting sidetracked by Mom -

like always.  Tries to get it back again.

She stares at him.  He talks slowly and carefully to her.

He walks away and moves toward the bank door.

ON VI

Her desperate smile, apologetic and false at the same time,

glistens with a mother's tears.  After a long beat:

INT. BANK - CLOSE ON DOOR - NIGHT

as Sonny enters and stops, controlling his emotions.  He

walks toward Mulvaney, who is putting visitor's chair back

into position, then waters his plant.

Maria and Miriam are still dancing; Margaret is at her desk;

Sal, Jenny and Deborah are in the Conference Room; Sylvia is

still behind Tellers' Cages.

She leaves Tellers' Cages area, crosses to Sonny, grabbing a

pen from Edna's desk on the way.  Sonny's urgent mood reaches

them.  Sylvia gets note pad from Mulvaney.  Takes the

dictation...

Sylvia nods: got it.

He sits and writes it for Sylvia.

Nobody says anything about this document.  What is there to

say?  Sylvia walks to her desk at the front of the bank,

near the window, and begins typing.

EXT. BANK - VARIOUS ANGLES - NIGHT

The restless crowd STIRS, sensing something happening.

Turning to see something coming.

APARTMENT FIRE ESCAPE

The Cops gear up their weapons: radios CRACKLE.  Something,

a vehicle, is moving through the crowd, Cops shoving people

aside to let it through.  The Old Lady pays no attention.

She is down to one of the very last pieces of the puzzle and

is searching for the spot for it.

LOW ANGLE IN CLEAR PLACE IN FRONT OF BANK

as the vehicle clears the crowd and slowly draws up in front.

It is a long airport limousine of the type with many doors.

It stops.  Everyone's attention is on it.  A black DRIVER

gets out, a gay Afro knit on his head, coke dealer's shades,

for the cognoscenti, one very long little finger nail, a

nifty Van Dyke style beard and one gold front tooth.  He

looks around, holding a sheet of paper.  Sheldon, others,

approach.  They are looking into the vehicles, opening doors,

checking tires, etc.

DOOR OF BANK

Sonny appears.  He strides to the limo.

After a moment the Cops all move back.  Sonny opens the front

door and begins to check it out.  The Driver starts to move

away...

INT. LIMO - CLOSE - SONNY AND DRIVER

Together they remove the seat so Sonny can check for guns

concealed below, etc.  Improvise to fit conditions of the

car.

They pry up a seat and look under, etc., all through:

Driver stands up, getting a good look at Sonny.

And he turns and walks away.

Driver stops, uncertainly.  Cops grab him to hustle him away.

Sheldon steps forward with a neat twenty-years-younger carbon

copy of himself...

He stands up and eyes Murphy.  He just doesn't like it.

The Driver is still close enough to hear...

The Driver looks around desperately to the FBI, to get him

out of this.

Pause.  Sheldon finally reluctantly nods.  Sonny motions for

him (the Driver) to step forward.  Before he can get in the

car, Sonny stops him.  Signals to him to get ready.  Gives

him a thorough pat search.  Thighs, the whole bit.

CLOSE ANGLES AS HE SEARCHES

It is tense.  The Driver seems uptight.  Sonny finds nothing

until he touches a breast pocket.  The Driver is very uptight.

Sonny reaches in, pulls out a -- tiny bottle, with a coke

spoon chained to the lid.  Before Sheldon can see it, but

the audience has, Sonny shoves it back, grins, slaps the

Driver on the buns.  The Driver laughs delightedly.

He was afraid he'd get busted for the dope: the drive will

be a cakewalk.

He loves the joke!  They act as though they hadn't heard.

Sonny slaps him playfully on the arm and smiling turns to

Sheldon.

He points at Murphy.  Sheldon stands there speechless.

Driver stares at Sonny, his smile fading.

Sheldon nods to Driver and Murphy.  Murphy resumes role as

driver of the limo.  Driver gets out.

SONNY AND MURPHY

as they position the stretchout in front of the bank.  It

can be seen from inside.  The FBI men stand well back from

it.  Murphy stands by the door.  He also can be seen.

Murphy nods.  Sonny is satisfied and turns to the bank, takes

Murphy into vestibule, indicating for him to stay there.

Sonny continues toward group at rear.

INT. BANK - NIGHT

Sylvia is finishing her typing.  The girls and Mulvaney are

slowly getting ready.  Deborah is getting her purse out of

Margaret's desk drawer; Margaret gathering her own purse,

books, etc.; Jenny is getting her purse from Edna's desk as

Edna gathers up her belongings; Mulvaney is seated at his

desk; Miriam is at her desk, by the front door.

Sal stands with his gun ready.  [As Sonny enters and takes

up his gun, Sal carefully and methodically begins to redress

himself, comb his rumpled hair, knotting his tie carefully...]

ANGLES FAVORING SAL

as he rebuilds his sartorial image before the various

reflecting surfaces of the bank, knotting his tie in a glass

partition, checking his suit for wrinkles in a glass door,

etc.  Meanwhile we are seeing the following, which Sal

ignores:

SONNY ENTERING

ON SONNY

looking at the will, taking up pen.

ON SYLVIA, MULVANEY

watching him with compassion.

INSERT

Sonny signs fast and firmly...

INSERT

Sylvia's notary seal clamps and imprints the paper.

LOW CLOSE ANGLE - SONNY

His eye has struck some reminder.  They handle this.

He plunks his card down before Sylvia.

They start the action of filing the form and accepting the

money... Sonny stops them...

They are ready.  A moment in the dark.  Sonny holds out the

will to Mulvaney.

Mulvaney takes it.  Sonny shakes his hand.  Suddenly,

emotionally, he embraces Sylvia.  Suddenly they are all saying

silent goodbyes.  Shaking hands all around, formally.

Only Sal is left untouched, standing apart, watching them,

in the dark.

EXT. BANK - NIGHT

Everyone waits in silence.  The lights.  The limo.  The Driver

waiting in the driver's seat.  After a beat the door begins

to open.

VARIOUS ANGLES

as Cops' guns are brought to bear.  On the apartment fire

escape the Old Lady is asleep, her puzzle complete.  The

snipers raise their rifles.

FRONT OF BARBER SHOP - NIGHT

Sheldon stands there.  The police radio network CRACKLES:

"They're coming out.  Perpetrators and hostages together.

Only authorized personnel may previously authorized, and

etc."  Sheldon's eyes go to:

HIS POV - SNIPER

A middle-aged Man who looks like an overweight accountant,

in flak vest and helmet that seems too small, aiming through

a telescopic sight at:

DOOR OF BANK

Something that looks like a multi-legged animal emerges.  It

is Sonny and Sal in the center of a tight group of the girls

and Mulvaney, so they are completely protected on all sides

by hostages.  Over their heads is thrown some drapes from

the bank that further prevent the police from drawing a clear

head on Sonny or Sal without hitting a girl.  In fact they

can't be seen at all.  This weird apparition appears,

hesitates.  The crowd YELLS: "SHOOT!"  CHOREOGRAPH THE ACTION

so the group hesitates, takes a step forward, then it's clear

Sonny can't see well enough to go direct to the car, and the

girls are uncertain which direction to go in, not having

been briefed.  So they stumble about, make false starts, and

finally arrive at the car, where one girl gets into the second

row of seats behind the Driver.  Then Sonny slides across

next to Driver.

VARIOUS ANGLES TO COVER

The police have no chance to shoot.  The group looks like a

bewildered centipede finding its way.  Mulvaney detaches

himself from the group and slips into the front seat, on

Sonny's right.

ON EDNA

standing alone, outside filled-up limo.  Sheldon walks over

to Mulvaney's window.

Maria gets in the rear-most row of seats.  Sal next to her

in the middle and then another girl.  One woman, Edna, a

plain middle-aged woman who has not said a word until now is

left over.  She stands by the side of the limo as the doors

close and this phase of the operation ends, without mishap.

Edna pecks out dry little kisses to the nearest girls.

ANGLE THROUGH SONNY'S DOOR WINDOW

as Edna pecks... goodbye.

Sal has his gun pointed on back of Driver's head.

The Driver honks the HORN: they're ready.  The crowd SCREAMS.

Cops keep jockeying for position, but there is no way to get

a shot in.

ON SHELDON

No emotion.  He steps into his car, a police car pulls up

behind, and the procession starts to pull slowly toward the

crowd.

ON EDNA AND BANK

As the limo pulls away, she is bewildered by the rush of

police, bank people, FBI men who stream past her, ignoring

her, all pouring into the bank.  TV crews move by and finally --

one stops to interview her.

ON THE CARAVAN

being rammed through the jam of Cops and screaming people

trying to get a last look.  The hostages looking out, wan,

worried.  Sonny and Sal inside, alert, ready with guns.

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

THEIR POV - MOVING SHOTS

from inside the limo.  The faces of the poor, the excited,

the vicious the curious, and in ONE SHOT some of the people

from the Gay Liberation Movement carrying hastily lettered

signs: one protesting Sonny:

And another:

Their scared and wan faces swim past in the mob.  Sonny's

mother is briefly seen looking out of the barber shop window,

alone and forgotten.  The Cops stare heavily, sullen with

anger.

Now the limo is moving faster.  People are running alongside,

YELLING insults, trying to see in, asking for hand-outs, but

they are going faster.  Inside, they say nothing.  Up ahead,

Sheldon's car flashes a red light.  Behind, the police car

does the same.

VARIOUS EXT. AND INT. ANGLES - NIGHT

as the procession moves through Brooklyn.

MOVING VIEW FROM GROUND

A helicopter follows above them.

VIEWS IN STREETS

They move along, followed by a HONKING parade of kibitzing

cars, like a Mexican wedding.

ANGLE AT AIRPORT THRUWAY

They turn onto the thruway, trying to out-distance the cars

tagging along.

INT. LIMO

Silence.  Sonny and Sal hold their rifles ready between their

knees.

ANGLE N AIRPORT FENCE

as they veer off the thruway, a barely seen Guard swings

open a gate and they ROAR through.  The Guard pushes the

gate to, and the following caravan of cars brakes, skids and

a pile-up of fender bender accidents begin, cars going into

the fence and each other.

FULL SHOT - THRUWAY

Cars are strewn all around.  Doors open and Drivers leap out

ready to YELL and do battle.  The Cops guard the now closed

gate.

KENNEDY AIRPORT - NIGHT

Distant lights, some moving.  Total darkness.  The FBI car,

the limo, the following police car move across the darkness...

INT. LIMO - NIGHT

They sit quiet, following the FBI car.  The FBI car stops.

They stop.  Silence.

Sheldon is getting out of the car up ahead.  Sonny and Sal

and all of them come alert.  As Sheldon and the other FBI

men get out of their car, a pair of aircraft landing lights

become visible, taxiing towards the limo.

Sheldon has been walking down to the limo.  He stops beside

Mulvaney and KNOCKS on the window.  Mulvaney rolls it down.

There is silence inside the limo.  Mulvaney turns to Sylvia.

From a handkerchief, Sylvia draws a slip of paper.

They open the door.  They urge her out, and Maria goes with

a show of reluctance.

ON MARIA

As she stands up outside she is revealed to have a rosary

she's counting.  IMPROVISE goodbyes, tearful and fearful all

around.  Then:

And Maria walks away.  Now the plane has taxied into position,

where it can be seen in floodlights.  It looks big and

impressive.  We know the FBI has snipers ringing it.

CLOSE - SONNY

looking at the plane, grasping his money and his gun.  The

rifle stands straight up between his legs.  Sheldon leans

down, peering in at him.

ANGLE - SAL

in front of Sonny, behind Mulvaney.  For the first time he

smiles.  He realizes that escape is within their grasp.  The

smile transforms him from a formidable Mafia imitation into

an utterly sweet and defenseless youth.

CLOSE - SONNY

Driver starts to turn in the driver's seat!

Sheldon brings up his hands to reach through the open window

to grab Sonny's rifle barrel, pushes it away, aiming out

windshield.

Mulvaney sees them beginning their move and starts to duck.

Sal begins to see movement out of the corner of his eyes and

is barely beginning to react.

DRIVER TURNING HAS A GUN OVER THE BACK OF THE SEAT!

Sonny sees it, and Sheldon's hand grabbing the barrel of his

gun at the same moment.

Sheldon drives hard into the side of the limo, reaching in.

Mulvaney grabs the girl next to him and pulls her by the

hair down toward the floor.

Sal, open-mouthed with amazement, is a split-second late

bringing his gun up.

Driver completes his turn and has his gun leveled at Sal

between Miriam and Margaret in middle row.

Sheldon grabs his rifle barrel and pulls hard.  Sonny lets

it go.

Sal stares at the gun barrel, trying to get his gun up...

Driver FIRES.

Mulvaney hits the floor.

Sheldon holds Sonny's gun.

Sonny, CLOSE, watches.

Sal, hit, slams back into the seat; the gun flies upward.

Another SHOT hits him, flinging his head back.

Driver holds his third shot, turns to Sonny - holds gun to

his temple.

Sonny looks down so he can see fully as:

Sal's head snaps back for a split second and stares directly

into Sonny's eyes, upside down.

He stares sadly, into Sonny's eyes.  As though he knew it

all along -- betrayed.

And dies.

The SHOT is ECHOING.  Now SCREAMS, YELLS, SLAMMING doors,

panic... Sonny's voice:  "Shoot me!  For God's sake, shoot

me!"

FULL SHOT

They come pouring out of the limo, scrambling frantically

away from it.  The limo -- the people fleeing it.  Agents

pull people away from the car.

Driver and Sheldon and Cops peer into the back.  Sal's body

lies slumped.

Driver, Sheldon, other Cops stand about, recovering.  No one

makes the slightest sort of congratulatory move, it was just

another job.  Driver clears his weapon, hands it to Sheldon

to be filed in case of investigation.

ON SYLVIA, MULVANEY, HOSTAGES

They hug, cry, laugh, jump up and down: they're alive!

And she kisses him hard in the mouth.  He laughs and kisses

back...

CLOSE - SONNY

Tears are beginning to flood past his defenses:

His voice is dry, as though he were reciting from memory

something he learned in a language he doesn't understand.

CLOSE - LEON - HEAD ON SHOT

like a Warhol interview on TV.  Segue VOICE TRACK.

CLOSE - HEAD SHOT - SONNY

being manipulated like so much beef by impersonal FBI

agents...

EXT. BARBER SHOP - NIGHT

Remnants of the crowd of sightseers, being interviewed by TV

men avid for more, more, more news... these are people among

the group that held up the big banner earlier: now we see

them up CLOSE.  They're folding up their banner.  A very

ordinary-looking YOUNG GUY.

FBI AND SONNY

They're getting off his belt, his shoe laces...

OMITTED

BACK TO SONNY

manacled and helpless.  He is twisted into some yet more

uncomfortable position by the uncaring Agents.

THROUGH THE SHOT Sal's body is carried, Sonny, seeing it out

of the corner of his eye.  He tries to look...

PAULINE NATURILE - BEING INTERVIEWED

A faded, rattled woman, perhaps a little drunk...

BACK TO SONNY - AT AIRPORT

Sonny isn't even listening... he sees something o.s.:

NEW ANGLE

The hostages moving toward a car to take them home are passing

nearby and turn to look at him...

THEIR REACTIONS

They stare at him; they've already begun to forget him: the

moment in the bank when they said their goodbyes is already

receding from their consciousness.  Their smiles are forced,

and they don't really know what to say.

And, as the first welcome drops of cooling rain fall, they

begin to move fast...

ON SONNY

looking after them.  The rain hitting his face... the

adventure is over.  But the everlasting smile overtakes him...

OMITTED

BEGIN TITLE AND CREDITS:

SINCE THERE WILL BE NO BEGINNING TITLE OR CREDITS, THE PICTURE

LOGO WILL FLASH ON SCREEN NOW, AND END MUSIC UP:

AS PACINO'S CREDIT IS SEEN, OVER A STILL OF HIM FROM THE

PICTURE: THE FOLLOWING IS SUPERIMPOSED:

AS LEON IS SEEN:

AS HEIDI IS SEEN:

