The story begins with an opening shot on the exterior of the

executive mansion.  It is a gala day.  Soldiers are lined up

in front of the entrance; expensive cars and carriages are

arriving and depositing distinguished notables from the

adjoining countries.  Two trumpeters at the head of the stairs

announce the arrival of each notable.

In the large reception hall, Mrs. Teasdale, wife of the late

president, is greeting the newcomers.  The room is filled

with distinguished guests.  At the moment we see Mrs.

Teasdale, she is talking with a notable.  In the near

background is a group of distinguished men, members of her

own cabinet.  Her words to the notable are not lost on them,

and as she begins to praise the new dictator, there is the

exchange of disapproving glances.

The notable kisses her hand once more and leaves the scene.

As he does, the background group moves into Mrs. Teasdale.

Their spokesman addresses Mrs. Teasdale.

Mrs Teasdale turns her back on them, leaving them to mumble

among themselves.

From off scene comes a servant's voice, announcing:

Cut... to the archway.  We see Trentino enter with a beautiful

brunette at his side.  He is followed by two or three of his

fellowmen.  He moves across the reception hall to Mrs.

Teasdale, bows most graciously and presses his lips to the

back of her hand, then introduces his companion.

Mrs. Teasdale shakes the girl's hand warmly.

Trentino attempts to take her hand.  The latter is a bit

confused, much to the amusement of Vera, who laughingly says:

Mrs. Teasdale's confusion is happily interrupted by the

announcement of a servant, off scene.

Mrs. Teasdale exits from the scene quickly.  Vera and Trentino

look after her, then Vera laughs softly, as their eyes meet.

Vera winks agreeingly.

Mrs. Teasdale enters the scene with Bob Firefly (ZEPPO).

She introduces him.

Ambassador Trentino... his niece, Vera, After the formalities

of introducing, Trentino says:

The clock begins to strike the hour...  one...  two...

three...  four...

This finishes on an operatic note with everybody with

outstretched hands turned toward the main door that connects

the reception hall with the outer hall.

Groucho doesn't appear and once more they all sing.

Again Groucho fails to appear and they all sing once more.

Mrs. Teasdale exchanges an apprehensive glance with Bob.

Vera and Trentino smile.

Bob goes over to a corner of the room and pulls a tapestried

bell cord.  This rings a fire bell in Groucho's room -- and

Groucho is disclosed asleep in his canopied bed under a

mosquito netting.  He has an unlighted cigar in his mouth.

The continued jangling of the fire bell awakens him from his

slumber and he rises quickly.  The cigar begins to emit smoke

when he starts puffing.  He hurries over to one corner of

the room where his clothes are arranged in fireman fashion,

gets into them, and then sides down a fireman's pole into

the reception hall.

The guests are singing the last two lines of the national

anthem when he arrives.

Groucho starts across the hall in the direction of Mrs.

Teasdale.  He passes several notables, one of whom is wearing

an impressive looking medal.  Groucho deprives him of it

without stopping his forward movement, and pins it on himself.

He pauses only when he is facing the principal group.

He takes a pack of cards from is pocket and extends them to

Mrs. Teasdale.

The bewildered Mrs. Teasdale complies.

Groucho puts the other fifty-one cards in his pocket.

Ambassador Trentino enters the scene.

Vera Trentino enters scene.

Bob (ZEPPO) enters scene.

Bob writes as Groucho dictates

Bob takes dictation again.

Groucho glares over his shoulder at Bob to emphasize his

remark as the latter exits from the scene.  Mrs. Teasdale

enters to Groucho.

Groucho does minuet with girls as above is sung

Groucho does a dance with Mrs. Teasdale who joins him

reluctantly and registers embarrassment as dance continues.

He might finish dance in her arms, looking tenderly at her

as she beams down at him.

Bob enters

This is repeated by a servant's voice off scene...

A servant enters to Groucho, bearing his high silk hat.

He bows low as he hands it to Groucho... Groucho takes hat,

removes a white rabbit, hands it back to servant, dons his

hat and with a swanky gesture exits... again we hear a

servant's voice calling: "His Excellency's car"...

We see the trumpeters at the top of the steps of the mansion,

outside, standing at attention... their trumpets at their

sides...

From inside comes the voice of a servant calling "His

Excellency's car"...

The trumpeters click their heels, draw themselves erect, put

the trumpets to their mouths and blow a fanfare to summon

the car...

We cut to the Exterior of the Dictator's garage.  This is a

pretentious affair.  In central foreground a wall, in the

center of which is a large wrought-iron double gate.  On

each side of the gate is a crest or design in relief.  Also

two liveried guards stand erect before the gate.  A trumpeter

on the wall above.  Through the gate we see the patio and

suggestions of the garage.  Two or three high-class cars in

background identify the garage.

At the beginning of the scene, we hear finish of trumpeter's

call.  Instantly the two guards move to the center of the

gates and call through the bars -

Almost instantly there is a terrific roar of motors on the

other side of the wall.  The two guards open gates moving in

military manner.  Immediately the gates are wide open, Harpo

appears on his motorcycle, that carries a side car.

The motorcycle is decorated... perhaps a crest in relief on

the side of the car...  a thin staff, about four or five

feet high is fastened to the handle bars...  As Harpo rides

along, he hoists the Freedonian flag to the staff.  Further

along the road he hits a man... he looks behind to see what

damage he's done, but continues riding... A CUT BACK to the

man shows that he is lying prostrate on the ground.

We CUT BACK to Harpo, who is just getting off motorcycle...

he takes another look back at the man, lowers the flag to

half-mast, takes bugle, which is hanging on his car and blows

a few bars of taps... he mounts motorcycle again and starts

off...

CUT TO top of mansion steps as Groucho comes from mansion...

the two guards standing stiffly erect, form a seat by crossing

hands... Groucho sits on the seat made by their hands, puts

his arms around their shoulders and they carry him down

stairs... as fast as they can.

CUT TO Harpo arriving in front of mansion just as Groucho,

carried by the men, moves into the scene.  Groucho gets into

the side-car... and in Napoleonic manner says to Harpo:

Harpo takes a phonograph record and smashes it on the

ground... there is a roar of the motor -- the motorcycle

starts off but leaves the side-car.

Groucho gets out of side-car... starts back to steps, stops

and says:

As he dashes up the stairs, we CUT TO Harpo... riding along...

A very attractive girl is coming along in the opposite

direction.  As she approaches Harpo, he toots his horn to

attract her attention, she throws him a indignant look and

continues on down the street.  Harpo turns his motorcycle

around and starts after her.  She looks around, sees Harpo

pursuing and breaks into a run... CUT BACK to Harpo following

her, putting on speed... he lowers the Freedonian flag and

simultaneously raises a pirate flag -- with skull and cross-

bones on it, displayed prominently.  A motorcycle cop is

parked on the corner waiting for prospective violators...

he sees Harpo chasing the girl and quickly starts his motor

and follows in pursuit...

The girl, as she reaches the executive mansion, rushes up

the stairs in an effort to escape.  Harpo comes into the

scene and rides up the stairs after her... As Harpo gets

about half way up the stairs the motorcycle cop is seen

approaching the mansion.

CUT TO reception room of mansion as the girl is running madly

through the room... a moment later we see Harpo on his bike

following... there is panic among the guests.  Then we see

the girl tearing up the stairs leading to the circular

balcony...

CUT BACK to Harpo.  He looks behind him as he rides and sees

the motorcycle cop following on his bike.  On the balcony

above,  the girl is running, with an occasional glance over

her shoulder as she runs out of scene... Harpo rides into

scene.  This time he is bent over his handle-bars in the

manner of a six day bicycle rider... following closely behind

him rides the motorcycle cop.  They circle the mezzanine...

Harpo in the lead, looking back now and then over his shoulder

at his pursuer... this is done in imitation of a six day

bicycle race... The motorcycle cop is closing in on Harpo...

the latter approaching a large open door, rides through the

opening, but the cop continues on around the balcony...  as

he gets to the opposite side of the circular balcony he passes

another open doorway.  Harpo comes riding out of it and is

now in pursuit of the cop...

CUT down stairs to Groucho... One hand is upraised holding a

gun.  As he looks at a wrist watch, he fires gun, then

addresses guests looking into CAMERA.

CUT BACK to balcony... Harpo is passing the cop...  He holds

up his hand for the cop to stop... they both come to a halt...

Harpo gets off his motorcycle, walks over angrily to cop,

takes out his book, writes out a summons and hands it to the

cop as we FADE OUT...

FADE IN on interior of Freedonian House of Representatives.

This interior although not a replica of our own House of

Representatives, should be close enough technically to sell

the idea... Each seat is occupied by an officious-looking

dignitary.  On the platform are a few desks... perhaps a

pulpit which Groucho uses when he arrives...  The one to the

right is the court stenographer's desk, occupied by Bob

Firefly.  He takes notes as the meeting progresses.

Throughout the House runs a ripple of excitement, which is

stopped by the rapping of the gavel by the Speaker of the

House.

Trentino takes the floor

Bob rises to interrupt

Bob presses a button, either on desk or wall...

CUT TO - the corner of Groucho's bedroom, showing fireman's

pole.  The sound of the clanging bell is heard over scene.

Groucho hurries into scene, fully clad but for his coat which

he has on his arm... without waiting to don his coat he slides

down the pole.  We pick him up finishing the slide down the

pole into the House of Representatives.  As he arrives the

members are on their feet singing the last four bars of the

national anthem.

Groucho hurries toward Speaker's desk, putting on his coat

as he goes...  Just as he reaches the desk the singing

subsides.  Groucho turns to the body of men and looks off in

the direction of one of the representatives.

Off scene we hear Chico's voice singing "P-E-A-N-U-T-S"...

this is followed by the piping of a whistle playing the first

strain of the PEANUT VENDOR...

Groucho listens, annoyed and then continues

Again Chico's voice comes over scene singing "P-E-A-N-U-T-

S"...  The whistling of the first strain of song - the PEANUT

VENDOR is heard again

Trentino exits resentfully

CUT OUTSIDE to Chico standing by his peanut stand which has

a whistle on it conspicuously displayed -

CLOSE UP of whistle piping tune of "PEANUT VENDOR" - Trentino

enters to Chico -

Singing even louder than before - Trentino smirks approvingly

and exits - the whistling of the tune following as we CUT

inside to Groucho - and the well-known vamp of the "Peanut

Vendor" is heard coming over scene with orchestra

accompaniment...

He walks determinedly in direction of window and breaks into

a rhumba - with hands on hips - dipping to ground a la Spanish

dancer... as he reaches window we CUT outside.  Groucho is

seen in the window - which is on the ground floor - Chico is

by his peanut stand.

Chico takes bag of peanuts from stand - throws it to Groucho -

The latter catches bag and throws Chico a dime - then starts

to eat the peanuts.

Groucho turns and disappears from the window - CUT INSIDE of

House of Representatives

Groucho exits towards door leading into his private office.

CUT to inside of private office which has another door leading

to a hallway, and among other articles of furniture, there

is an impressive-looking desk on which is a telephone.  Just

as Groucho comes through the door into his office, Chico

enters through the other door.  He is wearing gauntlets,

reaching half way up his arms.  As they walk toward each

other the telephone rings and the two men make a mad  dash

for the telephone on the desk.  Chico beats Groucho to the

phone, picks up the receiver.

Chico hangs up receiver and turns to Groucho who is waiting

impatiently

Telephone bell rings.  The two men turn and run for the

telephone.  Again Chico gets there first.  Groucho stands by

exasperated while Chico talks to the party on the other end

of the line

Telephone bell rings.  They both make a dash for the

telephone, but Harpo rushes in through hallway door and

reaches the phone first.  Harpo picks up through telephone

receiver, listens to conversation on the other end with an

occasional nod and shake of the head.  As he listens, he

scribbles message on a piece of paper.  He holds the written

message up to the telephone receiver for a moment, then writes

a few more words on the paper.  During this, Chico and Groucho

stand by, terribly worried.  Finally Harpo hangs up the

receiver and exits, tearing up the paper

Groucho suddenly slaps Chico across the face with his gloves,

then as quickly brings to light a card which he presents to

Chico in the professional manner of an experienced duelist

Chico whispers in Groucho's ear -- Groucho gives him an

indignant look

Chico turns to go - Groucho stops him

At this point Chico is at the door and exits - Groucho slams

the door right in his face - then he walks over to the desk

and sees the larger gauntlets.  He takes a swing with his

own gloves, then takes a hefty swing with the gauntlet.  He

leaves his own gloves on the desk and exits with the gauntlets

in is hand.

CUT outside.  Harpo is just pulling up to the curb in front

of the House of Representatives, in his motorcycle and side

car.  Groucho comes from the building wearing gauntlets,

gets into the side car and with a dignified wave of his hand,

says:

The motorcycle speeds out of the scene, leaving the side car

behind.

And, as he gets out of the side car and starts to go back

into the building, the scene

FADE IN to garden party.  This is an afternoon tea in the

garden of the Teasdale estate.   Spotted in the set-up are

innumerable colorful umbrellas, under which are tea tables.

The guests include the notables we saw in the mansion in the

first sequence.  The only two people absent are Ambassador

Trentino and Mrs. Teasdale.  Vera Trentino is seated at one

of the tables and her presence is established there in the

opening shot.  Music is heard over the scene and should be

continued through the scene as if being played by an orchestra

on the premises.  Suddenly the chatter ceases as the following

announcement is heard coming over scene.

All eyes turn toward those off scene and everyone rises to

sing the last four bars of the national anthem.

Cut to the gateway leading into the garden... a servant on

each side of the gate, as Groucho jauntily strides through

the gate, swinging the unusually large gauntlets...

Groucho hands his high silk hat to one of the guards and

starts down the walk among the guests.  From his attitude it

is evident that he is intent on finding Ambassador Trentino.

Suddenly he stops, having seen something of interest off

scene.  The following dialogue comes over the scene.

CUT TO Trentino and Mrs. Teasdale in a quiet corner of the

garden -- both are at a tea table.  This shot leaves Groucho

out.

Groucho enters the scene.

Without further ado, Groucho strikes Trentino across the

face with his gauntlets.  Then he quickly flashes his card

and extends it to Trentino in the manner of a duelist.

A sudden ripple of excitement as the guests, attracted by

the rumpus begin to move into the scene.  Prominent among

these is Vera Trentino.  Trentino refuses Groucho's card,

white with rage.

He turns on his heel as if about to leave.  Groucho stops

him

SOUND of trumpet - Ta - ta - ta-ta

SOUND of trumpet - Ta - ta - ta-ta

SOUND of trumpet - Ta - ta - ta - ta

SOUND of trumpet - Ta - ta - ta - ta

The above lies are spoken in meter and each line is punctuated

by the staccato notes of the trumpet.  Groucho makes a

military exit from scene in time to the music, which goes

into a military march.  As Groucho reaches the gate, the

guard hands him his high silk hat.  Groucho takes the hat --

removes a white rabbit from it  -- hands it to the guard --

as he exits through gate.

INSERT of newspaper.  The newspaper moves up to CAMERA from

background -- as it stops we read the following headlines:

"ARMIES MOBILIZE AS WAR CLOUDS GATHER!"

Through this insert we get the vague impression of war

activity.  We see the movement of soldiers' feet.  From the

background the second insert moves up to CAMERA...

The first insert moves past CAMERA and the second insert

comes from the background.  The headline reads:

"AMNESIA HASTENS PREPARATIONS!"

Through this insert we see the heavy wheels of army wagons

moving along.  This is replaced by the the insert coming

from the background.  The headlines read -

"FREEDONIA'S LEADER MAINTAINS ATTITUDE OF DIGNIFIED SILENCE!"

Bombing planes move through this insert.  The front page of

the paper is turned and followed by a few other pages until

we come to the classified ad section of the paper.  We see

the following advertisement:

WANTED: - A female spy.

Must be young and attractive Apply to Office of Secretary of

War.

Above this ad we just see a few lines of another ad --

WANTED: -- A Chauffeur Below the war nurse ad we see part of

another ad in which a cook is wanted.

A SHOT (in movement) of a row of shapely legs, obviously

those of very pretty girls.  The CAMERA moves upward

disclosing the faces of the girls, who are sitting in a row

in the ante-room of the Secretary of War's office.  On the

door leading to the Secretary's private office, we see the

lettering: PRIVATE.  The CAMERA discloses only four or five

of these girls, but we know there are more in the room.  Bob

appears in the doorway leading to the Secretary's office and

addresses the first girl - nearest the door.

This girl is very pretty and has a very attractive form.

She smiles at Bob, rises and exits into the Secretary's

office.  Bob closes the door behind her.  The CAMERA now

moves along the row of girls and the sixth or seventh girl

in the row is Harpo, dressed as a girl.  On the other side

of him are more girls.  A girl to the right of him turns to

the girl beside her.

All of the girls laugh heartily at at this remark.

Harpo is laughing also.  He slaps the story-teller on the

leg.

Her laughter ceases instantly.  She slaps him back, and gets

another slap on the leg in return.  A little squeal of pain

from her and she raises her dress disclosing a bruise on her

leg just above the knee.

Harpo does so, then pulls up his own dress and points to his

leg for her to look.  On his leg is tattooed a picture of

two hearts entwined with an arrow running through both.  She

gives Harpo dirty look and rises

Private office of Secretary of War.  The office is cluttered

with war implements, maps, etc.  The examination of the girl

is in progress.  She is turning around in the manner of a

clothes model.  Chico is looking her over.

The girl nods and pulls her dress up above her knees revealing

an attractive leg.  She reaches into her stocking for a paper.

The girl drops her skirt and hands the paper to Chico.  Chico

looks at the paper

Hands the girl the paper.  She lifts her dress above her

knees again and puts the paper back in her stocking, while

Chico looks on.  She drops her skirt.

She lifts the skirt again to get the paper, while Chico steals

another glance.  The girl drops her skirt and hands him the

paper.

He takes stethoscope from his pocket, applies it to her heart

and listens.

Puts stethoscope back in his pocket and takes watch from

vest pocket.  He feels her pulse while looking at the watch.

She walks over to him and lovingly strokes his hair, puts

both arms around him, then suddenly becomes very amorous,

bends him over and kisses him madly.  She lets go after a

little while and Chico comes up for air.  He staggers around

in a daze.  Then he takes the watch from his vest pocket,

hands it to her, extends his wrist and says:

Suddenly the screaming of girls is heard coming from the

anteroom, and we cut to the anteroom in the midst of

confusion.  The girls are running helter-skelter, one or two

of them are standing on chairs with their skirts lifted above

their knees.  There is a little white mouse running about

the room.

Harpo is sitting innocently on the bench.  The girl just

interviewed by Chico comes from the office, sees the mouse,

screams and joins in the general confusion.  Groucho enters

as the girls are running about - zig-zags among them and

continues through the room into the private office of Chico -

closing door behind him. The girls clear out of anteroom and

Harpo is left all alone.  He takes a small mouse trap from

his large pocketbook, puts it on the floor, crouches down

and whistles to the mouse in the manner of a man trying to

call a dog.  The mouse in answer to the whistle runs into

the trap.

The Secretary of War's office.  Chico at the phone.

At this point, Harpo makes his entrance through the door,

carrying his unusually large pocketbook which is about the

size of a carpetbag.   He walks past Groucho in a seductive

manner, swinging his bag and rolling his eyes flirtatiously.

Groucho is delighted with this action and returns the ogling.

Harpo lifts his dress and shows them the tattoo on his leg

of the two hearts.  Groucho examines it closely.

Harpo lifts his dress above the other leg and shows a picture

of Gainsborough's "Blue Boy".  Chico and Groucho arise from

the examination.

Harpo walks over to Chico, throws his arms around him and

starts to give him a big hug. He squeezes him very hard.  In

the midst of this there is a loud report.

A startled look from Groucho and Chico.  We see that Harpo

is minus one breast.  He tries to affect an innocent look

when suddenly there is a second loud report and his breasts

are now as flat as a billiard table.

Just as he turns to hide the sight from Chico and Groucho, a

hissing sound is heard -- the air is leaking out of his bustle

and the bustle is becoming deflated.)

Harpo goes to a corner of the room and keeps his back to

CAMERA.  He takes a tube out of his dress front and begins

to blow.  Chico and Groucho wear a puzzled look as they watch

him - the bustle starts to expand.

This inflation continues to gigantic proportions as they

look on.

There is a terrific explosion and all of Harpo's clothes are

blown off him - leaving him in nothing but running pants and

ladies' silk stockings.  His body is literally covered with

tattoos.

Winks significantly at Harpo.  Harpo returns the wink.

He and Chico continue further examination of the tattooed

designs on Harpo's body.

Harpo pulls a catalogue from under the belt of his trunks

and hands it to Chico.  Groucho and Chico look at the

catalogue.

Harpo reveals more of his back and shows a superb tattooed

job of a beautiful girl's head.

Harpo raises one arm and shows the phone number tattooed

right under the arm pit.  He holds this a moment, then turns

and discloses a portion of the tattooing on his chest.

Groucho and Chico's eyes shift from the telephone number to

the tattooed picture on his chest.  Harpo completes move and

discloses the entire picture.  It is a country back-house

with a crescent over the door.  Chico laughs uproariously.

He slaps Harpo an the back good-naturedly.

TRICK SHOT on HARPO'S CHEST.  The door in the outhouse flies

open.  The head of a real man appears in the opening.  He

looks off in the direction of Chico and mumbles incoherencies

under his breath.

He is terribly angry at being interrupted.  He draws in his

head, closing the door behind him.

Harpo takes the glasses and goes directly toward the window.

As he looks across street through binoculars, he is grinning

all over and wiggling around like a happy kid.

ROOM ACROSS THE STREET

Looking into the open window of a bedroom as Harpo would see

it through the binoculars.  A beautiful girl is undressing,

preparing to retire.  After a moment of this shot CUT BACK

to Harpo looking through the binoculars.  Chico takes the

binoculars from Harpo and pushes him out of the scene,

proceeds to look himself.  He registers the same satisfaction

as Harpo and hands the binoculars to Groucho.  As Groucho

looks through the binoculars at the beautiful girl, Chico

says:

Groucho takes a second look through the binoculars at the

beautiful girl.  This time he sees Harpo chasing the girl

around the roam.  This is shot through the binoculars as

before.  Groucho registers amazement as he looks through

binoculars; perhaps squints his eyes once or twice and takes

second look.

Chico takes the binoculars and looks at the room across the

street.  Binocular shot as before.  The girl is in her

underwear, tearing out of the room into the hall, pursued by

Harpo.  Chico is still looking through the binoculars.

CUT TO the front of the building occupied by the beautiful

girl.  She comes dashing madly out of the door and starts

down the street, clad only in her underwear.  Harpo appears

in doorway, riding his motorcycle and starts down the street

after her.

FADE IN to living room of Mrs. Teasdale's home...  It is a

smartly appointed room.  Its main feature for our purposes

is a winding stairway leading to bedrooms above.

In the absence of Mrs. Teasdale, Vera is seated by fireplace

while Ambassador Trentino is excitedly pacing up and down...

At this point Trentino sees Mrs. Teasdale coming downstairs

and hushes Vera with a nudge.

Trentino walks over to meet her.

She goes the phone... as she starts to dial the number there

is a quick CUT to Trentino and Vera who are exchanging

significant looks...

CUT BACK to Mrs. Teasdale at phone...

CUT TO Groucho at other end of telephone...  He is lying in

bed, in his flannel nightgown, eating crackers...  the bed

is strewn with cracker boxes and crackers...

CUT BACK to Mrs. Teasdale at phone.

CUT TO corner of room (Mrs. Teasdale's living room),

disclosing for the first time the fireman's pole... Groucho

comes sliding down the pole in his nightgown, with a long

box of crackers under his arm... stops about three feet from

the floor, looks around the room and sees Trentino.

He shoots right up the pole again out of sight.  Hold CAMERA

on this shot for an instant...  Groucho comes sliding down

again... this time he is fully dressed, including his high

hat and the cigar in s mouth...  He walks over to Trentino

belligerently, and deposits his hat on table on the way.

Takes gloves from Trentino's breast pocket and socks him

across the face... and puts them in his own breast pocket.

Trentino becomes apoplectic

Trentino exits in a rage.  Vera pretends that she is overcome

by the scene

She exits toward stairway

By this tine Vera has descended the stairs and exited from

scene.  Groucho looks around the room furtively to make sure

he is not being observed and takes a large envelope from his

inside pocket.

He hands papers to her

CUT TO Vera lingering on stairs looking down on the scene

below.  Having heard the conversation, she exits from scene,

and we CUT down stairs to Groucho and Mrs. Teasdale.

Groucho puts his arms around her and tries unsuccessfully to

lift her off her feet.

Mrs. Teasdale sinks down into a chair; without hesitation,

Groucho slides into her lap and continues his passionate

love making.

CUT TO door as Bob enters.  He moves in the direction of

Groucho and Mrs. Teasdale.

Bob takes out pad and pencil.

Groucho rises to his feet and paces the floor in the manner

of a studious business man with his hands behind his back...

then starts to dictate as Bob writes on his pad.

She picks up Groucho's hat and hands it to him.  He removes

a white rabbit from hat and gives it to her.  He is about to

put the hat on his head when something in the hat attracts

his attention.  He empties six baby rabbits out of the hat

onto the table; puts his hat on and exits.

CUT TO outside of house just as Harpo is pulling up to the

curb in his motorcycle and sidecar.  Groucho comes out of

house and walks directly to motorcycle.

Harpo gets off seat and sits in sidecar.  Groucho sits on

driver's seat.  The sound of the motor is heard and Harpo

drives off in the sidecar, leaving Groucho on the motorcycle.

Insert of program

DISSOLVE - Through program to stage of opera house - company

singing aria from some well-known opera.  CUT TO orchestra

box nearest proscenium arch.  Harpo and Chico are there fast

asleep leaning on each other.  They are dressed in Inverness

capes - wearing their high hats.  Chico has a red band across

his shirt-front on which is embossed "Secretary of War" in

gold letters.  An usher enters box with two people in the

background.

They both step out of box, onto stage and stroll casually

across as singing is going on.  Part of the way across, Harpo

and Chico react to the singing of a very high note -- it's

practically in Harpo's ear.  He stops -- makes a terrible

face -- takes out ear-muffs, puts them on his ears and he

and Chico continue toward the box --

CUT TO other box -- the one that Chico and Harpo are headed

for.  Mrs. Teasdale and guests are being ushered in...

Chico and Harpo come into scene, arriving at box.  Chico

steps into box from stage.  Harpo is about to follow when he

spies a pretty girl in box above.  He starts climbing up the

proscenium arch to upper box -- the girl sees him, screams

and dashes out of box.  Harpo completes climb into box -- at

this point the singing has just finished and applause breaks

out.

Harpo acknowledges the applause as if it was in appreciation

of his climb -- after a few quick bows he starts out of the

box after the girl.  As he is running out of box into the

foyer he bumps into Ambassador Trentino.

Harpo takes out a pencil with heavy lead and writes the

address on the white and purple-edged silk band which is

across Trentino's shirt bosom.  Then he pushes Trentino's

coat aside and from under his vest pulls the ribbon in the

manner of a ticker tape -- tears it off -- and starts back

to box.

LOWER BOX

Mrs. Teasdale laughs good-naturedly and puts the purse behind

her between her back and the back of the chair...  as we go

to stage where the shooting of the apple in "William Tell"

is being enacted.  William Tell is just placing the apple on

his son's head -- he turns his back on his son and walks

toward opposite side of stage with bow and arrow.

UPPER BOX

Harpo takes a look at apple on the boy's head -- reaches

down in box and comes up with a bow and arrow.  He takes a

good aim and lets the arrow fly...  It hits its mark and the

apple falls to the ground.  William Tell, having arrived at

spot from which he's going to shoot, turns to take aim and

sees that the apple is gone.  He picks up another, at the

base of an apple tree and starts in direction of his son.

CUT TO Harpo, who is watching William Tell.  He reaches down

into box and brings up another arrow -- takes aim and lets

arrow fly.  Again it hits its mark and the apple falls to

ground.  William Tell, reaching his place, turns to take aim

and is bewildered at the sight of the second missing apple.

The tree is bare and there are no more apples around.

A whistle is heard coming over scene.  William Tell turns in

direction of the whistle and we CUT TO Harpo whistling with

his fingers in his mouth.  Reaching down into the box, he

brings up a bag of apples and dumps all the apples onto the

stage.  CUT TO:  Lower box.

She jumps as if she's been goosed, and gives Chico an

indignant look as he withdraws his hand from her back.

Mrs. Teasdale looks at him disdainfully, turns to look at

stage, and jumps again.  She and Chico turn to look at each

other.  She, of course, is indignant, while Chico smiles --

his hand is coming from behind her.  She takes the purse

from its hiding place and places it on the ledge of the box

out of Chico's reach.  CUT TO:

Ballet dancers' dressing room. The CAMERA PANS along, showing

several of the ballet dancers limbered up by other dancers.

This is done as follows: - a girl stands against the wall on

one leg while another girl raises the other leg up and down.

The CAMERA passes three or four of the girls and comes to a

stop on Vera and Groucho -- the latter is stretching her leg

in the same manner.

CUT TO shot taking in the stage and Harpo.  Harpo is in the

foreground.  On the stage is our hero and his valet.

Harpo tosses him a large hat - possibly a fireman's hat.

Hero continues his song while Harpo litters the stage with

various articles - a saddle - a chair, etc...

CUT TO box below - Chico is trying to reach for pocketbook

on ledge but can't get it.  He whistles up to Harpo.  Harpo

looks down and Chico pantomimes to him to get the pocketbook,

pointing to it.  The singing stops and aplause follows --

the orchestra starts a selection -- which continues through

following routine without any singing.

CUT TO box above.  Harpo takes out a fishing pole with a

reel on it -- he unwinds reel and the line descends

near box below and lands in a man's hair -- the man occupies

an aisle seat in the orchestra -- near Teasdale box.

CUT TO Harpo reeling in.  CUT TO man on aisle seat -- The

hook has caught onto his toupe and its being pulled off his

head.  CUT TO Harpo reeling in with great satisfaction in

the belief that he has the purse -- on the end of the line

comes the toupe.  Harpo, astonished, looks down on the victim

who, minus the toupe, now displays a shiny bald pate.

Harpo takes out his fountain pen and releases gadget. The

ink pours down on the bald spot of the man below and spreads

into the form of a toupe parted in the middle.  CUT BACK to

Harpo - he places the toupe on the bare back side of a figure

of Cupid carved on the arch.  He is now suddenly attracted

by something on the stage -- it is a pool with a practical

fountain in its center.  Harpo digs into a decorative flower

box set in a groove in the proscenium arch.

He brings out a real live worm and baits his hook -- stands

up and casts... the line swishes through the air and the

hook lands in the pool on the stage.  The line instantly

tightens and a large carp fish is yanked out of the pool...

as the line is drawn in the fish nearly hits Mrs. Teasdale.

She covers her face with her hands.  Chico takes advantage

of her action, grabs the line, removes the fish, and puts

hook on handle of purse...  then signals Harpo with a whistle

and in the manner of a construction foreman, motions to him

to start "hoisting".  The line becomes taut and the purse is

yanked out of view.  Mrs. Teasdale uncovers her face and

discovers that the purse is missing.

There is a buzz of excitement among the rest of the guests

as they help Mrs. Teasdale look for the purse.

Chico joins in the search.  He grabs an elderly dignified

man in the party, throws back his coat and starts to frisk

him.

As he turns to frisk another man, Mrs. Teasdale says

CUT TO ballet dancers' dressing room, where we find Groucho

still pumping away on Vera Trentino's leg ---

Mrs. Teasdale enters the scene.  The sight shocks her but

she recovers herself sufficiently to hide the embarrassment.

Grabs her ankle and starts to lift her leg - she gets away

from him.

Walks up and down puffing furiously on his cigar

Starts for door

CUT TO - Stage showing about eight bars of Vera Trentino's

solo dance.  PAN to lower box - Mrs. Teasdale's guests are

gone but Chico and Harpo are there -- Chico is examining

plans of war.

Harpo opens coat and across his shirt front is the ribbon

with "462 North Myrtle Road" on it -- the door of the box

flies open and Groucho bounds in

Harpo and Chico throw their hands up and wheel around

He makes a grab at Chico -- Chico passes the plans to Harpo -

Groucho goes after Harpo - the latter leans away over ledge

of box and holds the plans out over the stage.  As Groucho

is trying to reach for the plans, Vera dances into scene,

makes a graceful pirouette and with her outstretched hands

takes the plans from Harpo.  As she dances away she deposits

the plans in her bodice...

Vera's male dancing partner enters from the wings, walks out

about four feet - stops and strikes a pose with uplifted

hand.  Vera is dancing on the opposite side with her back

turned.  CUT TO Groucho back stage - he sees the dancing

partner - pulls a lever on switchboard marked "TRAP DOOR" -

CUT TO stage as the dancer disappears through floor.  CUT TO

shot of Vera - preparing to turn to join her partner - she

reacts as she sees -- CUT TO Groucho standing on her partner's

former spot holding the same pose ...

CUT TO full stage shot.  Groucho and Vera are dancing

together.  During the dance Groucho tries to get the paper.

He bends her way over in an effort to make the paper drop

out of her bodice.  Harpo and Chico, watching the struggle,

quickly tear off their capes and coats and leap from the box

on to stage in their shirts.

This develops into a four-cornered adagio dance.

She hands the papers to Harpo over Groucho's shoulder as she

dances with him... Groucho rushes to Harpo and they do a

twirl together.  Harpo hands the paper to Chico over Groucho's

shoulder.  Groucho rushes at Chico and twirls with him -

Chico in trying to pass the papers to Vera drops them on the

floor.  They all make a dive for them.  Groucho gets the

papers and dashes with them to the lower box just as Mrs.

Teasdale enters same.

The following is a close shot of Groucho and Mrs. Teasdale.

The latter standing on stage right by the box.

CUT TO - Dressing room just a Vera, Chico and Harpo enter.

Harpo lifts up his shirt and tattooed upon him is the

reproduction of the war plans...

FADE IN - Mrs. Teasdale's living room.  Night.  Subdued light.

We begin with an EXTREME CLOSE CLOSE SHOT of a hand depositing

the plans of war in a vault.  This vault is about the height

of a man, the door flush with wall.  The CAMERA TRUCKS back

and discloses that the one depositing the papers is Mrs.

Teasdale -- she is in negligee.  She closes the vault door,

pulls a cord, closing a pair of drapes which hide the vault.

The CAMERA PANS to the balcony above where Vera Trentino,

also in negligee, is watching the action in the living room

below.  She tiptoes quietly from the scene.

Downstairs, Mrs. Teasdale turns out the center table light

and moves toward the stairway.

CUT TO Vera Trentino's bedroom.  Vera comes toward window,

raises it quietly and waves a handkerchief, evidently

signalling somebody below.

CUT TO EXTERIOR of house.  Chico and Harpo are waving back

to signify that they have caught the signal.  The boys try

to raise the window which is located next to the main

entrance, but it is locked and they can't budge it.

They try the window again and find it hopeless

Chico walks right in through the door, closes it behind him

and then appears at the window.  He raises it from the inside

and Harpo climbs in through the window and joins Chico.

CUT TO INSIDE.  They are walking cautiously across the room

when they hear the following coming over scene -- "Psst...

Psst..."  They stop and look around, trying to locate the

source of the sound.  We CUT TO the balcony and see Vera

Trentino, still dressed in her negligee.  Once more she tries

to attract them.

The boys look up and see her.

Harpo hasn't taken his eyes off of Vera during all this,

makes a sudden dash for her, as she turns to her room.

Chico stops him on the second or third step of the stairs.

Chico goes over to the safe and draws the curtains, disclosing

safe.  Harpo follows and takes from his back pocket a rather

large electrical drill with a cord and plug attached to it.

Chico takes the cord and plugs it into the wall socket.

Harpo starts to drill the safe door, making a terrific noise --

the usual reaping whir-r-r of an electric drill.  Chico grabs

his hand and stops him from drilling.

Harpo goes over to radio and turns it on... a dance tune

comes over the air.  Harpo grabs Chico and whirls him around

as if he were dancing with a dame...

Chico goes to radio and adjusts dial to another station...

the following comes over the air...

Harpo drops the drill and makes a wild dash for door obviously

to go to the woman... Chico stops him.

Chico rushes to phone... and dials...  This shot excludes

Harpo.

Chico turns to listen to the next announcement - hanging

onto receiver.

Hangs up... looks around for Harpo, who is not there...

CUT TO Vera's bedroom.  It is a CLOSE SHOT showing Vera in

bed, shot from side of bed.  She is under the bedcovers

desperately trying to keep them from being pulled off her...

TRUCK back disclosing Harpo on the other end of the bedcovers,

trying to pull them off her... for a moment following, a tug

of war goes on, Harpo pulling the covers about a foot his

way and Vera pulling them back...  The sound of Chico's second

whistle coming over scene attracts Harpo, who lets go of the

covers and runs out of the room.

We pick him up outside of the room on balcony.  Without

hesitation he slides down the bannisters to join Chico who

is waiting at foot of stairs.

Harpo nods and takes from under his coat a woman's silk

combination... winks and looks back in the direction of Vera's

room...  Chico snatches it out of his hand and throws it

away.

During above Mrs. Teasdale has come out on balcony, sees the

boys but can't distinguish them in the room which is

practically in darkness except for a few splotches of

moonlight.  She runs back into her room...

CUT TO Mrs. Teasdale's room...  she is at telephone dialing

a number...

CUT TO Groucho's bedroom.  He is at the other end of the

phone in bed.

CUT BACK to Mrs. Teasdale at phone.

CUT TO Chico and Harpo in living room below at safe.

Harpo has just finished putting a stick of dynamite in the

door of safe...

Harpo strikes a match, but Chico stops him from lighting it.

Harpo takes out a large wad of cotton, tears it, hands two

pieces to Chico... they both stuff their ears with large

pieces.

Harpo lights fuse... each stands on either side of safe door

waiting for the explosion... after a slight pause, there is

a terrific blast of sound... and the screen is masked with

smoke.  The smoke clears away and the safe door falls to the

floor.  Groucho walks out of the safe putting the plans of

war in his inside pocket...

After a few steps he stops and addresses the boys...

FADE IN - to insert of newspaper which comes from background

to CAMERA.  A screaming headline reads:

This insert goes past the CAMERA as another newspaper comes

from the background.  The headline reads: -

DISSOLVE to Groucho's office.  Groucho is standing in front

of his desk reading a newspaper, which is spread over his

desk.

The headline is the same as in the second insert -

Harpo is standing at the other side of the desk.

CAMERA TRUCKS back disclosing a real horse beside Harpo.

He and Harpo go to the window and look out.

CUT TO SHOT of a steeple with three lighted lamps -

CUT BACK to Groucho and Harpo

With a grand gesture, Groucho exits out of scene.

Harpo grips pommel of the saddle with both hands and in his

attempt to make a flying mount, vaults clear over the horse

landing on the other side.  He lets down a rope ladder from

under the saddle, climbs the ladder, mounts the horse and

starts off.

DISSOLVE to CLOSE UP of Harpo riding at breakneck speed.  As

he looks grimly ahead he reaches down out of scene and brings

up a three-cornered colonial hat and puts it on his head.

DISSOLVE to a Moving Insert - Harpo bringing the horse to a

stop in front of a farm house.  He blows a blast on a regular

army bugle... immediately a few old men rush out of the house

in their nightgowns, carrying guns, and into the scene from

all directions rush other men, answering the call, similarly

attired.  Harpo starts his horse and we DISSOLVE to him

pulling up to another farm house.

This house has a single door on the extreme end of it and a

very large French window covering almost the rest of the

house.  Harpo stops and sounds the bugle call.  This time

there is no answer to his call.  He waits a second, then

turns his horse in the direction of the house and rides

through the single door.  After a short pause, the doors of

the French window fly open and the horse runs out pulling a

double bed which is on wheels.  Harpo is standing at the

foot of the bed, braced against the bedpost, holding the

reins.  There is an old couple, man and woman, fast asleep

in the bed - (This couple might be the blase gentleman and

young wife used by Peter Arno in his cartoons.)  After riding

a few feet Harpo leaps from the bed onto the horse's back

and rides off leaving the bed and its occupants on the road.

DISSOLVE to Harpo pulling up to another farm house.

He stops, sounds his bugle.  A very pretty young girl, in

her night clothes pokes her head out of the second story

window.  Harpo takes a good look at her, leaps off his horse

and dashes into the house.  A moment later he comes out of

the house with a feed bag and puts it on the horse's head....

then he dashes back into the house again.  Almost instantly

he comes tearing out of the house, followed by an old geezer

in his nightgown, who is chasing him, with rifle in hand...

He fires a few shots -

DISSOLVE through the shooting of previous scene to STOCK

SHOT of artillery fire on battle field - a profile SHOT with

all the activity of an actual battle, but without an

indication of falling men.  DISSOLVE from this to interior

of Groucho's headquarters behind the front - a wooden shack.

The sound of a distant booming of guns is heard over this

scene.  On the wall is a large war map with colored thumb

tacks indicating the positions of Groucho's men and the enemy.

Groucho, in the uniform of a Confederate General, (a Robert

E. Lee make-up), is studying the war map with a few of his

Generals.

The door flies open and Bob, in a snappy uniform, enters

excitedly and breathlessly.  He faces Groucho with a quick

salute and a click of the heels.

Groucho snatches the dispatch from Bob's hand, tears it open --

reads it quickly -- claps his hand to his brow and staggers.

The generals crowd about him.

The whining of an approaching shell is heard and a shell

about three feet long comes sailing through the open window,

speeds through the room and tears through the opposite wall,

leaving a clean-cut hole.  Groucho rushes to window and closes

it.

SHOT of No Man's Land, with shells exploding in all

directions.  We see a head slowly appearing over the edge of

shell-hole, looking through spy-glasses.  It is Harpo...

Inside of shell hole...

Harpo registers that he has seen something of startling

interest.  He drops the glasses, scrambles out of shell-hole

and runs out of scene.  He rushes to his waiting motorcycle

(without the side-car).

The staff with the flag flying from it is attached to the

handle-bars.  He leaps onto the motorcycle seat and starts

off.

A war nurse, attracted by the roar of the motorcycle.

She looks back, sees Harpo approaching and breaks into a

run.

As he closes in on her, she jumps into a trench to escape

him.  Harpo rides on a little further to the entrance of the

trench and turns in, to continue his pursuit.  A TRUCKING

SHOT shows only the flag and staff, tearing along above the

surface, with the accompanying roar of the motorcycle which

is hidden from view.  As it speeds along, soldiers are leaping

up out of the trenches on every side to avoid being run down.

This continues doing a zig-zag with abrupt turns...

Groucho's headquarters.  Groucho is discovered there alone,

stropping his sword on a razor strap attached to his desk.

Chico enters... goes to time-clock on wall, puts his workman's

card in it and punches it.  Groucho, attracted by the bell

of the time-clock, stops stropping and walks over to Chico,

with sword in hand.

Groucho sits down at desk and Chico pulls up another chair

and sits at opposite side of desk facing Groucho

At this point, an unusually large shell comes crashing from

above, imbedding itself, point down, in the floor without

exploding.  Groucho and Chico rush over to look at it.

Groucho opens door and yells to some one outside

Harpo enters, bent forward, tugging at a rope which tightens

over his shoulder, in the manner of a Volga Boatman... at

the end of the rope is a cannon, on two wheels

Harpo pours a great quantity of powder into the cannon, then

to make sure he has enough, he lights a match and looks into

the hole.  Groucho takes the lighted match from Harpo.  He

lights his own cigar, hands the match back to Harpo.  Harpo

pours in a little more powder, makes sure he has enough,

then proceeds to ram the powder in the barrel with his horn.

He rises and moves to wall toward which the cannon is pointed.

He draws a target on the wall with a piece of chalk -- goes

back to cannon.  He picks up the firing string, and faces

the target toward which the cannon is pointing.  Chico puts

his fingers into his ears.  Groucho picks up a pencil from

desk - taps it on desk - then raises both hands, in the manner

of an orchestra leader.  He holds this pose for a second -

and on the down beat, Harpo jerks the string and there is a

terrific explosion.  The cannon fires out the back end instead

of the front and blows a hole through the back wall.  The

two stare off in the direction of the hole.  Groucho turns

to Chico.

Harpo opens the door and discloses a dozen or more snarling

wolves at the door.

CUT TO - INTERIOR enemy headquarters.   The booming of distant

guns comes over the scene.  Trentino is there with a Sylvanian

general.

Chico enters. Trentino rushes over to him

Interior of Groucho's headquarters.  Groucho is on his feet

addressing five or six generals, who are seated.  Zeppo is

at the desk writing the minutes of the meeting.

Bursting of a shell is heard right outside of shack.

Groucho rushes to the window, opens it, fires a shot from

his revolver through the window, hurriedly shuts it, then

rushes back to Generals

The bursting of another shell is heard right outside of shack.

Groucho rushes to the window, opens it, turns his back to

window, takes out a pocket mirror, holds it up in front of

him and shoots over his shoulder out of window, taking his

aim from the reflection in the mirror, like a trick marksman.

As Groucho walks away from window, he hears another explosion

outside.  He rushes back to the window, takes a package of

small firecrackers out of his pocket, detaches one of the

firecrackers, lights it from his cigar and throws it out of

the window.  A very small explosion is heard.  Groucho

hurriedly shuts the window and rushes back to the generals,

as we - CUT TO:

THE OUTSIDE - A LONG SHOT of a dirigible (miniature) --

then we go to a CLOSE UP of the dirigible.  On the bag, in

large letters, is printed --

The CAMERA PANS DOWN to the cabin of the dirigible.

Chico and Harpo are standing at the open door looking down.

Harpo reaches back into the cabin, picks up an enormous hook

and throws it out.  The rope that is attached to the hook

starts playing out rapidly.

CUT TO --

LONG SHOT miniature of dirigible and rope dangling from it...

Then CUT TO - SHOT of rope and hook as it approaches Groucho's

headquarters.  It hooks onto the roof of the shack and raises

it off the ground.  CUT TO -

LONG SHOT - miniature of dirigible carrying the shack through

the air.

CUT TO - inside of headquarters.

CUT TO - SHOT of dirigible carrying the shack.

The shack just clears a steeple by a few inches.

CUT TO - INSIDE of headquarters.

The general, without saluting, exits out of door and closes

door behind him.

The second general exits out of door without saluting, closing

door behind him.

The remaining generals jump to their feet, stand at attention

and salute.

All of the generals exit through to door; the last one closing

door behind him.

Groucho goes to door, pulls it open, starts out --

CUT TO - EXTERIOR OF SHACK (against sky backing).

Groucho is seen in the open doorway.  He comes out and walks

down the steps (there are three steps attached to entrance

of door, with railing on each side.  Groucho is about to

step off into space.  He grabs the railing and hangs by his

hands.)

Zeppo rushes to door and pulls him up by the hands.

CUT TO - Inside as Zeppo finishes pulling Groucho in.  Groucho

scrambles to his feet, rushes to window, leans out of window

backwards and looks up.

CUT TO -- SHOT of dirigible as seen by Groucho.

CUT BACK inside of shack as Groucho pulls in his head.

Zeppo runs for rifle...

Zeppo returns and hands rifle to Groucho.  Groucho leans out

of the window backwards and shoots up into the air...  CUT

TO - dirigible (miniature) as the bag explodes.  The smoke

fills the screen.  As the smoke clears away we see Groucho

and Zeppo descending side by side in two parachutes against

sky background.

Zeppo takes out pad and pencil

Groucho and Zeppo descend out of scene, as Harpo and Chico

come into scene from above, both suspended from the ropes of

their parachutes... They are in a sitting position, with a

board across their knees, playing cards...

FADE IN - to a group of notables standing around a large

table.  Among them are Mrs. Teasdale and Zeppo.  Groucho is

the guest of honor, very gaily attired for the occasion.

As we FADE INTO this scene, they are singing -

Then follows a musical interlude during which Groucho says: -

They all sit

CUT TO door, as it is being opened by two pages.

Trentino and Vera enter.  They both stop and bow in

acknowledgment of the applause coming over scene.

As they walk toward table and out of scene, Chico and Harpo

enter.  The latter is carrying a carpet runner, rolled up

under his arm. He flips the carpet runner away from him on

the floor, holding onto one end.  It rolls out and Harpo

strides majestically down its length toward the table with

Chico following.  Harpo pauses, brings to light a cuspidor

from under his coat, puts it on the carpet and spits into

it, and continues on, following Chico, who is now ahead of

him.  Harpo breaks into a run and he and Chico dash madly to

the table.  They take seats on either side of Groucho and

without hesitating, start to eat the food in front of them.

The guests are standing.  Trentino and Vera arrive at their

places and everyone sits down.

Harpo reaches for a large service plate with a pretty picture

on it, pushes his plate away, breaks the service plate with

a knife... it breaks into little pieces like a jig-saw puzzle.

He mixes the pieces up, and then starts to put them together

again ... Groucho watches him... then helps him...

A waiter places a dish of tasty food in front of Groucho...

he is just about to dig into it with his knife and fork when

Harpo turns the table toward himself.  This brings Groucho's

food to Harpo, and Chico's empty plate to Groucho...

Snapping his finger to waiter off scene.  The waiter

immediately appears placing a second dish in front of Groucho.

He starts to dig his knife and fork into it again when Chico

turns the table toward himself... This brings his food to

Chico... Harpo lifts his plate up and puts it down again

when the table stops turning... this time Groucho has nothing

in front of him...

Harpo takes salt shaker from man to his right, places it in

front of himself and gives the table a quick turn toward the

woman next to Chico...

Groucho is still without food.  He rises and looks about

table... Sees a dish of food in front of Trentino, who is

seated at opposite side of table...  Trentino is eating.

He gives the table a quick turn and Trentino's plate

disappears as it spins around toward Groucho...

Just as it gets to Harpo, he lifts up the plate...  the table

goes on a few feet more and when it stops, Harpo puts down

his plate and starts to eat...  again Groucho has nothing...

Groucho picks up his napkin and wipes his mouth.

Applause... Groucho steps up on the table

The table starts to turn slowly...  Groucho starts to walk

in opposite direction... staying in same place.

The table moves a little faster...  Groucho increases his

pace accordingly...  CUT TO Harpo and Chico now seated beside

each other turning the table...  CUT BACK to Groucho...

Speed of table turning increases.  Groucho keeping pace

against it in tread-mill fashion...

CUT TO Harpo and Chico turning table... faster and faster...

We CUT BACK to Groucho who is now galloping to keep his spot

but he's not going any place

This FADES OUT on a shot with Groucho running madly, and

gesticulating, taking in Harpo and Chico turning the table...

