CHAPTER ONE - EARLY HISTORY

SUPER:  AUTUMN, 1987

A line of PASSENGERS about to board a Pan Am flight to

London.

JACK CAMPBELL, 22, head full of long unkempt hair, Tom

Selleck mustache,  the hopeful look of youth in his

eyes... sitting next to...

KATE REYNOLDS, 21, pretty, Dorothy Hamill haircut...

rubbing the tears from  her swollen red eyes...

Kate hands Jack a new copy of Vonneguts Cats

Cradle.

Jack accepts the book but hes unable to take his eyes

off Kate.  She hands him a cassette.

Kate leans over and kisses him passionately on the

lips.

He looks at her, his eyes welling up. He pulls her

close, kissing her deeply. Then...

Jack takes Kates hand, getting up, turning sadly to

the gate.

Jack pulls out a BLUE PAN AM TICKET ENVELOPE.  Kate

nods. They embrace and kiss again.  As they separate.

Jack takes one lastlook at her, then heads for the

gate.

Kate stands there, watching him go.  Then...

...a  moment of intuition. Something isnt right. She

looks at Jack, about to disappear into the jetway,

trying to decide...

Jack turns. Kate approaches him.

She looks at the gate...the last few passengers are boarding,

then back into Jacks eyes.

Kate looks at him, pleading with her eyes, but she cant

say...

His eyes narrow as he measures her determination...

A laugh from Jack.  Kate gives him a calm smile and a

nod - it's not entirely convincing but it's enough for

Jack.

He takes her in his arms one last time and hugs her

tight.  Jack looks toward the gate, the line

disappearing...Kate grasps his shirt tightly.

A sober look in Jack's eyes.

Kate nods, then, with resolve...

Jack is jolted by her words.

Her words sink in...A long moment of decision...He

looks toward the gate, only one person left in

line...back to Kate...imploring him with her eyes.

Finally...He kisses her deeply on the lips...

...a smile from Kate...relief...then...

Jack gives her one final kiss then walks pensively to

the gate, handing the attendant his ticket, not able to

look back.

Kate watches him go, tears streaming down her face, as

the gate door closes behind him.  She waits, almost

willing it to open again...waiting...waiting...but it

doesn't...

DISSOLVE TO:

The skating rink at Central Park...Christmas tree at

Rockefeller Center...the view down Fifth Avenue with

Christmas decorations...Park Avenue.

We close in on a spectacular pre-war doorman

building...

A huge space with gleaming hardwood floors, ornate

moldings, and a great view of the Hudson and Jersey

behind it...

The place looks like a museum display...everything is

of the highest quality and meticulously maintained.

A wall of photos - Jack and Clinton, Jack with Patrick

Ewing, Jack between Alan Greenspan and Henry Kravis.

And a "Willie Mays" baseball bat encased in glass...

...impeccably decorated and obsessively neat.

Close in on the bed where JACK CAMPBELL, now 35, sans

mustache and long hair, opens his eyes.

A FLASH of bright morning light from the window.  Jack

shields his eyes, turning his head toward the bathroom

where he sees...

A WOMAN'S BACK...draped in a towel...an incredible

back, neither flabby nor overly toned, beautifully

curved...Jack focuses on it a moment. As the woman

turns to him...

PAULA.  Beautiful, late 20s, a toothbrush in her

mouth...

A playful smile from Paula.

Paula smiles, moves over to a chair and grabs a little

black dress hanging neatly over it.

Jack grabs his Frank Mueller watch from the night

stand, puts it on his wrist.  He looks at Paula as she

slips the dress on.

She turns to him.

Paula laughs.

Paula approaches Jack, leaning over him, her long hair

dangling on his chest.

He stays there, confident, sexy, waiting for an

answer...

Paula walks to the door, then turns back to Jack.

CHAPTER TWO - MAIN TITLES

Jack saunters over to a Yamaha Grand Disclavier in the

living room.  He puts a disk into the piano and...

...the keys come alive with the music of BACH.  Jack

hits a switch and suddenly the entire apartment is

enveloped in music...

Paula, waiting for the elevator, hears the MUSIC

emanating from Jacks apartment...an intrigued glance

back at the apartment door as the elevator arrives...

Backs Passion According to St. Matthew is blaring

through the speakers, the music is swelling to full

orchestra...

Jacks at the mirror in this incredibly neat marble-

tiled bathroom, shaving with a silver-plated Hammacher

Schlemmer razor, HUMMING with the orchestra...

...the size of a small house, a long row of Zegna

suits, shoe trees stacked with Italian shoes, tailored

shirts everywhere.

Jacks still HUMMING to the music as he dresses in

front of a mirror.

Jack, wearing an elegant camels hair overcoat and

carrying a leather briefcase, a Master of the

Universe smile on his face, now HUMMING the Bach piece

from memory...

The doors open at 6.  Jack self-consciously stops

singing as ELIZABETH PETERSON, 60s, wearing a mink

coat, gets on the elevator carrying a yappy little dog.

The doors open to the lobby.  Mrs. Peterson walks out

ahead.

TONY THE DOORMAN holds the door open for Jack and Mrs.

Peterson...

Jack exits the building...

Jacks Ferrari racing through the park...

A modern Wall Street building.  The sign above the

glass doors reads, P.K. Lassiter and Associates,

Investment House.

The Ferrari SCREECHES to a halt.  Jack gets out, heads

into the building...

...Jack throws his keys to a nearby SECURITY GUARD with a

smile on his way to the elevators...

CHAPTER THREE - JACK THE BUSINESSMAN

DISSOLVE TO:

The Manhattan skyline shines through the windows of

this beautiful conference room.

SIX EXECUTIVES are seated at a huge oak table littered

with coffee cups and lunch waste.  At the end of the

table, ALAN MINTZ, 30s, balding, sits with a faraway

look in his eyes, three empty Diet Coke cans in front

of him.

Mintz is poking at a shiny gold cherub dangling from a

small, plastic Christmas tree, sitting in the middle of

the table.

Jack is addressing the group from the front of the

room, standing in front of a computer with a huge flat

screen monitor, covered with stock charts and tables...

Jack notices Alan Mintz playing with the cherub.

Alan looks up.

A LAUGH from the group.  Jack approaches Alan.

Another LAUGH.  Even Jack lets out a good-natured

chuckle.

A chuckle from the group...the esprit de corps seems to

energize Jack.

Enthusiastic nods and words of agreement from the suits

around the table...

A MURMUR of excitement in the room, even Alan cracks a

smile.  Jack puts a hand on Alan's shoulder.

The conference room door opens and the SIX ENERGIZED

SUITS emerge, each met by an ASSISTANT handing them

messages.

Jack is the last one out.  He's met in stride by

ADELLE, 50s, carrying a Filofax and a pile of phone

messages.

Jack pops a peppermint Lifesaver in his mouth as Adelle

hands him his messages.

They approach an office, the words, "Jack Campbell -

President" stenciled on the glass...

...continuing past Adelle's desk, Jack looking at his

messages, and into Jack's office...

A cavernous office, you could land a helicopter in it -

high tech fixtures, full bar, leather sofa, $3,000

Stairmaster...

Jack walks to an enormous, bare mahogany desk, and sits

down in a high tech ergonomic leather chair.

He gets to the last message, sees the name on it, and

reels back.

Jack stares at the message like he's looking at a

ghost.

Jack pauses, focused on the message, his mind drifting

back...

Adelle begins dialing the number.  Finally, Jack

reaches out and hangs up the phone.

Adelle rolls her eyes at him.

Jack looks up as PETER LASSITER, 60s, founder and

chairman of P.K. Lassiter and Associates, saunters into

the room.

Lassiter heads to the bar like he's done it a million

times.

Lassiter drops down in a soft leather chair opposite

Jack.

Jack pauses for a beat.

Adelle rolls her eyes at him...

Jack glances at Adelle, then looks back at Lassiter.

Jack shoots Adelle a satisfied smile, crumpling up

Kate's message and tossing a perfect hook into a N.Y.

Knicks hoop.

A single light remains on in the building.

Jack is alone in the office working on his computer,

checking spreadsheets on a large flat screen monitor.

Jack leans back in his chair rubbing his eyes.  He

checks his watch.  It's past eleven.  He gets up, goes

to the window, sees the city in all its Christmas

glory, then he see it...

...the message from Kate, crumpled in the

trashcan...then turns back to the window, gazing out at

the night...

Jack comes out of the elevator, walking past the lobby

desk where FRANK, a security guard, sits watching the

monitors.

Jack looks outside the front door to the snowy, quiet

street.

A nod from Jack.

Jack puts on a pair of soft leather gloves and heads

out into the crisp night air...

Jack emerges from the building, walking across the

large plaza, past the fountain...snow begins to fall...

Jack's walking down the nearly empty street, snow

falling down on him, a bounce in his step, looking at

the windows of the closed shops along the way.

He gets to the end of the block spots the Wong

Brothers' 24 Hour Deli across the street...

He heads toward it...

Jack walks into the brightly lit deli...

SAM WONG, 20s, is with his 80-year-old GRANDFATHER

behind the counter.  There's a NERDY COLLEGE KID at the

salad bar, a drunken DEPARTMENT STORE SANTA at the

liquor display, a WOMAN with a BABY in an aisle and...

...a BLACK MAN, 30s, with a dollar sign and the name

"CASH" tattooed on his arm, stands in front of the

coffee machine...

Jack notices Cash talking to himself, seemingly crazy.

Jack approaches Sam Wong at the counter.

Jack grabs a carton of egg nog, then notices Cash

handing Sam Wong his ticket.  Jack heads back toward

the counter...

The woman with the baby looks over...the college kid

looks up, nervous...the drunken Santa, bottle of

bourbon in hand, starts to walk by Jack...Jack

instinctively puts an arm out, holding the Santa

back...

The Santa looks at Jack, confused.

The woman with the baby puts a loaf of bread back on

the shelf, starts nervously inching toward the door.

Just watching...Cash shoves the ticket in Sam Wong's

face...

A moment of decision for Jack.  Then...

Cash turns to Jack.

Jack looks at the woman, the college kid, the Santa,

then...

Now Cash walks over to Jack...

The patrons exchange nervous glances...Jack watches,

confused.

Cash throws a bottle of Perrier against the wall, it

SHATTERS.  The woman reels back in terror with the

baby...

In a flash, Cash whips a .38 from the back of his

pants, aiming it at Jack's face.  The woman SCREAMS,

covers her baby.

Jack stares at Cash, trying his best to keep his

cool...

Cash gets closer...

Cash narrows his eyes...then, a smile as he puts the

gun back into his pants...

Cash starts out of the deli.  Jack follows...

Jack and Cash walking down the street...Jack, holding

his carton of egg nog under his arm, counting out two

hundred dollars...

Jack nods...

Jack hands him the money.

Jack nods.

Cash looks at him, then smiles.

Cash turns around.

Jack casually takes the egg nog out of the bag, opens

the carton...

Jack takes a sip of the egg nog.

A look from Jack...

Cash looks at Jack...

Cash looks at Jack.  He smiles and shakes his head.

And with that, Cash turns and leaves Jack alone on the

street with his egg nog...

Jack walks in and throws his keys on a table.  He takes

off his gloves and overcoat, glances at the mail, then

heads into the bedroom.

Through the large windows we see snow falling...

Jack, flat on his back in bed, fast asleep...

CHAPTER FOUR - A DIFFERENT LIFE

DISSOLVE TO:

Close in on Jacks face, bathed in morning light...he

opens his eyes...feels something strange...

Jack looks down...theres a womans head resting on his

chest.

A look of confusion crosses his face...trying to

remember... did he meet a woman last night...?

He turns his head to find a large MUTT sitting

faithfully beside the bed, wagging his tail...

...did she have a dog?

He looks down at the woman again, craning his neck to

get a look at her face.  And then he sees her...

...KATE REYNOLDS...

...now 34 and even more beautiful, a look of utter

contentment on her radiant face, sleeping soundly...

His head darts around the room - its cramped and lived

in, clothes and toys are strewn about, family photos on

the dresser, Laura Ashley curtains, a tiny poster bed

and a charming little bay window.

He instinctively reaches for his Franck Mueller watch

on the night stand, but its not there.  Its a Timex

Indiglo and it reads, 7:57 A.M...

Jack looks back at Kate...he rubs his eyes...maybe its

a dream...but nothing changes.  Then, Kate stirs...

Jack jumps as he hears Kate talk for the first time...

Suddenly, the door bursts open...A SIX YEAR OLD GIRL,

ANNIE, in a little nightgown, walks into the room

carrying an 18 MONTH OLD BOY, JOSH, SINGING at the top

of her lungs...

Annie places Josh on the bed and then jumps up

herself.  She gestures to the dog, patting the bed.

The dog faithfully jumps on the tiny bed, joining

everybody else and leaving very little room.  Annie

starts jumping.

Jack looks at this activity like a man at his own

funeral.

Josh crawls directly up to Jacks stomach, climbing

on.

She said Dad.

Thats it.  Jack moves the baby gingerly over, then

gets out of bed, stumbling over a baseball bat lying

next to it.

He picks up the bat...the same Willie Mays autograph

bat that was encased in glass in his N.Y. apartment.

Frightened, Jack drops the bad, looking down at himself

for the first time...hes naked...

...a mortified look on his face as he sees the kids on

the bed...

...he quickly grabs a pair of sweat pants and a yellow

cardigan off the chair and throws them on...

Kate, still half asleep, reaches out her hand.

Jack turns by instinct.  Kate grabs him, drawing him

near.  A look of fear on his face as Kate opens her

eyes...

Eye contact...Jacks certain hes about to hear her

scream...

She lets him go as Jack backs out the door...

A garishly decorated Christmas tree sits in the middle

of this messy and disorganized living room, a bevy of

gifts underneath and four red stockings over the

fireplace.

Jack darts to the top of the steps...

He looks back at the bedroom, then at the

stairs...quickly heading down the CREAKY steps, still

in shock.

He grabs an overcoat from a hook by the front

door...about to step out when he looks down and

realizes...

...hes barefoot.  He glances at a pair of rubber over-

boots sitting by the door, slips them on, just about to

leave when...

He hears the sound of a KEY TURNING in the door

lock...Jack looks at the door, not quite sure what to

do...

The door opens...into the house, arms laden with

wrapped gifts, walk BIG ED and LORRAINE REYNOLDS (both

60s), Kates parents.  Big Eds wearing a ten gallon

hat and a suede overcoat.  Lorraine has a cigarette

dangling from her mouth.

Big Ed hugs Jack as best he can with an armful of

gifts.

Lorraine plants a big fat kiss on Jacks cheek.

Jack, still holding the door open, plotting his escape.

Jack dashes out the door.

They start to remove their coats, when...

The door flies back open...

Jack spots a set of keys hanging on a hook.

Jack grabs the keys off the hook...darts back outside...

Jack emerges from this charming, suburban two-story

house, some tasteful Christmas lights decorating a tree

in the center of the snow-covered lawn...

He races to a blue Dodge mini-van sitting in the

driveway, a My Ferrari Is In The Shop sticker on the

rear bumper.  He climbs into the mini-van and peels out

of the driveway...

Jack sees a sign, George Washington Bridge - 3 miles...

Jack driving over the bridge.  A sigh of relief as he

passes under a sign for Manhattan.

The mini-van pulls up near Jacks apartment building.

Jack, still wearing pajamas under the coat, leaps out,

running toward the grand entrance where Tony stands

sternly in front.

Jack starts to walk past but Tony blocks the way.

Just then, Mrs. Peterson walks to the door with

her little DOG.  Tony opens the door for her...

The little dog starts BARKING ferociously at Jack.

Tony shrugs his shoulders.

She looks at Jack with a raised eyebrow, the dog still

YAPPING.

Jack pleads to her with his eyes.

Mrs. Peterson shakes her head at him, a look of pity on

her face.

Frustrated, Jack turns and runs back to the mini-van...

CUT TO:

Jack pulls up across the street and gets out of the

van.  Running across the empty plaza toward the

building entrance...

Jack bursts through the door, approaching the lobby

desk where FRANK the security guard sits.

Frank spots Jack and blocks his way.

And then he sees it...ALAN MINTZ - PRESIDENT, listed

plain as day on the building director...

Jack looks at Frank, then back to the building

directory...

A pitying look from Frank...Jack stands there, in

shock...

CHAPTER FIVE - WHATS HAPPENING?

...its desolate...

Jack walks through the plaza like a zombie, his face

registering nothing.  He crosses the street, moving

toward the mini-van...oblivious...when...

SCREECH...a Ferrari 456M stops within inches of Jacks

torso...a VOICE from the car...

Jack turns...sees the DRIVER low in the seat...cant

quite make out the face...

Jack...still stunned...looks at the car, very

familiar...the voice of the driver, also familiar...

A look of realization on Jacks face...

...its Cash, and hes in Jacks car...

Jack moves over to the passenger window in shock...a

smile from Cash...

Cash reaches over and opens the door.  Jack

hesitates...

Cash gives him a reassuring look.  Jack gets in...

Jack closes the door...Cash joyfully drives off in a

burst of acceleration...Jack practically ends up in the

back seat...

Jacks freaking out and Cash is enjoying every minute

of it.  Cash hands Jack a paper bag.  Jack starts

breathing into the bag.

Cash looks over at Jack...hes really losing it,

sobbing into the bag...almost hyperventilating...Cash

smiles...

Cash gets a laugh out of Jacks overreaction...

Cash turns to Jack.

A look from Cash.

Cash looks at Jack, relishing the moment.  He flashes

Jack a smile.

Cash just stares at him...

Jack faces Cash, simmering...with frustration.

SCREECH...Cash slams on the brakes...practically

sending Jack through the windshield.

Jack recovers, looks up...the car is parked right next

to the mini-van.

Cash pulls out a small plastic bag, holding it out to

Jack...

Jack looks inside the bag, pulls out a BARBIE BICYCLE

BELL.  He looks at it curiously.

Cash reaches across Jack and opens the door.

Jack looks out to the lonely street outside, then back

to Cash.

Cash looks at Jack, the desperation on his face.

Jacks still a little unsure...he sees Cash open the

driver side door...

Jack gets out of the car...and before he can even turn

around, Cashs door SLAMS shut and the car takes off in

a blast of horsepower...

Jack stands there gazing down the street, listening to

the sound of the Ferrari shifting gears,

disappearing...

The wind whips up...shivering, Jack looks toward the

Lassiter Building, then to the plastic bag in his hand,

and finally to the mini-van.

The blue mini-van snakes through the curved streets of

the neighborhood, almost all the houses decorated for

Christmas.

Jacks trying to find the house, a map unfolded on the

steering wheel and the cars registration in his

hand...

He spots ARNIE BENDER, late 30s, carrying an empty

science kit box to the trash.  His wife, JEANNIE, also

late 30s, is getting in a Ford Taurus wagon, a bowl of

fruit in hand...

Jack pulls up to the curb near Arnie, rolling down the

window.

Arnie looks up and sees Jack in the van.

Jack follows Arnie into the den of this garishly

decorated suburban home, Arnies arm around his

shoulder.

Jack takes in the decor  its a male leisure time

fantasy  old pinball machine, wide screen TV, dart

board, and kitschy 50s style bamboo bar...

Arnie notices Jacks fascination with the room...

A satisfied smile from Arnie, Jacks approval means

something to him.

Arnie shepherds Jack onto a bar stool and pours a drink

out of a bamboo bottle holder.

Jack doesnt respond, his eyes drawn to a softball team

photo on the bar...Jack and Arnie kissing a huge trophy

with the caption, Plainfield, N.J. Softball League

Champs, 1994.

Jack looks over from the photo to Arnie...

Arnie makes a fist and gestures to his heart.  Jack

nods.

A moment of decision for Jack as Arnie stands there,

open eyed, ready to listen.

A raised eyebrow from Jack.

Jack pauses at the mention of Kate.  Arnies eyes

widen...

Jack looks at Arnie as if hes seeking confirmation.

Arnie comes out from behind the bar, taking Jack by the

arm.

Arnie walks Jack through his backyard...

A chuckle from Arnie.

They arrive at...the backyard of the Campbell house...

cluttered with a swing set, a dog run with chewed up

lawn, and a wooden sun deck in the process of being

built...

Jack trips over a wayward BIG WHEEL.

Arnie leads Jack toward the house.

A blank stare from Jack as they arrive at the sliding

glass door...Arnie faces Jack squarely, grabbing his

shoulders and looking him in the eye.

Arnie gives Jack a comforting smie...

Arnie turns Jack toward the door and slides it open.

Arnie gives Jack a gentle hug...then gives him a little

push toward the door...

Jack steps inside.  He turns back to the door but

Arnies gone.

Then, Kate enters the room, holding a portable phone...

She cups the receiver.  Jack looks at her, shes

dressed now, nothing fancy but she looks great.

A curious look from Kate.

Kate just stands there looking at Jack, giving away

nothing.

She gives him a resolute nod, then...

Jack grimaces as she resolutely hangs up the phone then

stares him down angrily.

Jack watches her vent, the frustration on his face

building.

Jacks almost to a breaking po	INT.

She looks at him curiously.

A raised eyebrow from Kate.  Jack moves around the

room...

Kate looks him over, assessing, then...

She stares him down, expecting an answer.  But he has

no answer.

Jack takes the bell out of the plastic bag that Cash

gave him, holds it up in front of her and starts

RINGING it furiously.

Then...Annie rides into the room on her new bike.

Jack watches as she pedals over, reaches into his hand

and takes the bicycle bell...

Annie rides excitedly out of the room on her bike.

Leaving Jack and Kate alone again...

Jack sees the disappointment on her face...

Jack looks down, almost ashamed...he relents, giving in

to the moment...

Kate looks at him.  He seems sincere enough...

Kate looks at him a moment, then shakes her head.

She picks up the phone, starts dialing...

Kate just looks at him.

He walks past her...toward a hallway door, Kate

watching him...

He opens the door...its a closet.

The light comes on...

Jack walks in, looks in the mirror, determined to

collect himself...but somethings not right...

He glances around...the bathroom is small and its

cluttered with Kates razors, loofah, skin creams...

...none of this stuff is his...

...he looks in the mirror again, his face revealing a

forlorn sense of displacement...

...he stares at himself until...he starts to lose it...

anger, confusion...sadness...finally, he begins breaking down...

After a moment, he turns on the water, rinsing his

face...

Jack at the closet door, looking at a row of Hagar

slacks, Docker sport coats and imitation leather

shoes...

He reaches in and touches the fabric on one of the

sport coats.

Annie appears at the bedroom door, watching Jack at the

closet.

He turns...sees Annie watching him...a look

exchanged... then, Annie runs away...

Jack turns back to the closet and mournfully takes a

pair of the slacks...

Jack and Kate, a casserole dish in her hand, walk up

the path to this tacky but large house, its outside

decorated with the most garish display of Christmas

decorations this side of Pasaic.

Kate RINGS the doorbell...

EVELYN THOMPSON, 30s, wearing a dress thats a bit too

tight and a bit too low cut, opens the door...

Jack looks right past her...to the house filled with 50

GUESTS.

A loud WHOOP from the guests...Jack has the look of a

condemned man on his face as he follows Kate inside...

As Kate heads into the living room, Evelyn takes Jacks

arm...

Jack shoots her a confused look...then walks in, trying

to catch up with Kate...

The party is in full swing, Christmas music in the

b.g., GUESTS talking, laughing, drinking egg nog...

Jacks eyes dart around the room...its large, neater

than his and Kates house but still very lived in...The

Thompson KIDS run in and out of the room, playing with

new toys... nobody is wearing or eating anything

imported from Europe, but everyones having a good

time...

...everyone except for Jack, standing with Arnie and

THE GUYS, having his ear chewed off by NICK CARELLI, a

walking advertisement for Levis Cotton Dockers...

Nick looks at him in disbelief.

BILL KRAMER, a huge pile of fried chicken wings on his

plate, tugs at Jacks shirt.

Nick reaches into his pocket and pulls out a packet of

Dutch Masters cigars.  He shows them to Jack, Jack nods

politely.  Nick eagerly hands him one...

Nick lights Jacks cigar, then his own...enjoying that

first puff...smiling at Jack...Jack dutifully takes a

puff of the cigar...nods back at Nick...but its an

effort...

Evelyn Thompson approaches, a tray of MUSHROOM PUFFS in

hand...

Kate sees Evelyn and Jack from her position on the

other side of the room...Kate watches as...

Evelyn holds the puff up to Jacks mouth, slowly

putting it near his lips...

He instinctively opens his mouth as Evelyn pushes the

treat inside...

On Jacks face...if freezer burn were a facial

expression, this would be it...

...Evelyn licks her fingers suggestively then hands

Jack the entire tray with a sexy smile...

A raised eyebrow from Kate, still watching...

Evelyn nods as Jack walks toward the staircase...

Kate follows Jack with her eyes as he climbs the

stairs...

Jack is sitting on the arm of a couch filled with

guests coats, talking on a FOOTBALL SHAPED

telephone...the tray of mushroom puffs on the table...

Click.  A dial tone.  Jack slams the phone down...

He slams the phone again...and again...and again...

Jack turns, sees Kate standing in the doorway, watching

him take his frustrations out on the phone, concern on

her face.

A forced smile from Jack.

Kate notices the tray of mushroom puffs on the table.

She turns and leaves...Jack looks at her, confused...

Jack comes down the stairs, a lost look in his eyes.

He looks across the room and sees...

Kate, with a group of GUESTS, looking great in her

jeans and white blouse, the center of attention.

Jack passes through the guests, people waving to him,

slapping him on the back as he approaches Kate...

He catches Kates eye...she gives him a subtle smile.

Jack watches as Kate charms the crowd...

The guests laugh again.  Even Jack finds himself

laughing, until...

A chuckle from the group.  Kates confused.

People are starting to LAUGH.

Blank stares from everyone, including Kate...

CUT TO:

Kate and Jack walk in the front door...the dog greets

them happily, jumping up on Jack, a weary look on his

face.

Kate grabs a leash off a hook and hands it to Jack.

Jack looks at the dogs face.  Lucy couldnt be more

excited.  Finally, Jack shakes his head and takes the

leash.

CUT TO:

The sound of CRICKETS.

Jack, wearing a down jacket, is being dragged down the

street by Lucy, his breath condensing in the cold

winter air.  The dog sniffs at a hydrant and a couple

of garbage cans, but isnt doing her business.

The dog stops, sniffing at a manicured lawn...

But the dog keeps moving, pulling Jack with her.

Lucys sniffing around someones Christmas display but

Jacks too wrapped up in his thought process to notice.

Jack narrows his eyes, thinking about that deal...

Resolute, Jack turns to the dog.

Jack looks around at the unfamiliar houses...

But the dog ignores him, dragging Jack along...

Kate is in bed, fast asleep.

Jack walks into the room, his face still red from the

cold outside.  He looks over at Kate, sleeping happily.

He takes off his shirt and khakis, laying them neatly

on the chair.  He looks over at the pair of flannel

pajamas folded on the dresser.  He shakes his head,

resigned, then dons the pajamas and climbs into bed...

CHAPTER SIX - BEING A PARENT

Morning light streams into the room.  The clock reads,

7:14.

Jack opens his eyes  a burst of light hitting them

from the window...like the morning light in his

Manhattan loft...

He reaches across the bed...its empty...

A smile of hope from Jack as he puts his head back on

the pillow...maybe it was only a day...Then...

The sound of a baby CRYING from the next room...A

pained look on Jacks face as he realizes hes still in

Jersey.

Now the baby is WAILING...Jack lies still a moment,

hoping itll stop...it doesnt.  Then, he hears the

sound of the SHOWER TURN ON in the bathroom.

He gets out of bed and walks to the bathroom...

The shower is running, a tape player is BLASTING Beast

of Burden.  Kate is in the shower SINGING LOUDLY with

the song...

No answer...

Finally, the music is turned down and Kate pulls the

shower curtain open...

Jack sees her naked body...raises an eyebrow...thats

something hes missed...then...

...her expression makes Jack turn his gaze from her

naked body.

She closes the curtain and turns the radio back up.

CUT TO:

Annies watching from a baby-size Laz-E-Boy lounger

as...

Jack, in a robe, stands in front of a changing table,

Josh laying happily on his back, playing with a set of

plastic keys.

Jack takes a fresh Huggies diaper and puts it next to

the baby.  He surveys Josh, scratching his chin and

rubbing his hands like Indiana Jones.  Josh playfully

grabs at Jacks nose.

He looks over to Annie.  Shes still staring at him

like hes a Martian.  He looks at the instructions on

the box of Huggies.

Jack searches the diaper for the tabs of tape, then

gingerly pulls them apart, releasing the diaper from

the babys bottom, and seeing whats inside.

Jack holds the diaper out away from him, searching for

a place to put it.  Annie points to a Diaper Genie by

the dresser.

Jack throws the diaper in, then quickly replaces the

lid.  Annie points to the container of Baby Wipes.

Annie stares at him a beat.  Then...

Jack turns to her.  Shes looking back at him with

complete earnestness.  They stare at each other another

moment.  Then...

A look of curiosity from Annie.

No response from Annie...

Annie nods at Jack, still suspicious.

A concerned look on Annies face, Jacks petrified that

shes about to cry.

Annie approaches Jack, climbing up on a little chair

and tugging firmly at his hair.

Annies now stone faced, trying to decide about Jack.

She thinks about it for a moment.

Beat.  Then...a smile from Annie.

Jacks driving, Annie buckled in the front seat...

Josh, in the baby seat, looks like he was dressed by

monkeys  his shirt buttons are off by one, and theyre

clearly supposed to be in the back.

Jack stops the van outside the Playland Day Care

Center.

He gets out of the van...

...he pulls Josh out and walks quickly toward the

building, holding the baby away from his body.

He gets to the door and holds Josh out to the DAY CARE

LADY.  She stares at Joshs outfit...

The woman looks at Jack like hes crazy.

The mini-van pulls up to the drop-off point at this

suburban New Jersey Y.  Annie opens the door.

CHAPTER SEVEN - A TIRE SALESMAN

Jack watches her as she runs toward the building.

Then...

Annie turns back toward him.

A beat.  Then...

She shrugs her shoulders and walks off.

CUT TO:

Jacks driving down a busy commercial street when he

spots something a hundred yards down the road...

...a huge, three-story-tall plastic likeness of Big Ed

Reynolds, ten gallon hat, lassoing a tire...

Jack approaches Big Eds from the parking lot...slowly,

taking it all in...

Its like a Pep Boys with a Texas theme.  A big retail

store for tires and auto parts, and a repair bay for

everything from alignments to brake jobs...

Jack walks to the tire bay where HECTOR, 40s, a

Guatemalan mechanic in grease-stained coveralls, stands

with TOMMY the salesman.

Jack nods amiably then continues into the store...

Jack walks in...looks around...the store is teeming

with activity, a post-holiday sale in progress...

Big Ed, in his signature ten gallon hat, sees Jack from

behind the counter...

Jack stares blankly at Big Ed...

Jack considers this briefly.

Big Ed makes a gun gesture with his forefinger, winking

at Jack, then turns back to the activity at the counter

as...

Jack spots KENNY, a very young sales associate, walking

by.  He reaches out and taps Kenny on the shoulder.

Jack walks into the office with his name on the door...

Theres no Stairmaster here, no leather sofa or

bar...its small, cramped and cluttered, the walls

littered with tire inventory and price lists...

Jack takes a slow, sad lap around the office.

He makes it to the small wooden desk at the far end of

the room and sits down behind it...

On the desk are photos of Jack, Kate and the kids, a

plastic Michelin Man model, a tire-themed day calendar

and a small plastic figurine of a BOWLER, the word,

Bowlers Do It In An Alley embossed on its base...

He surveys the desktop briefly, then opens the top

drawer, finding a personal checkbook and looking

inside...

He sees the bottom line and winces, then puts it

back...

Jack picks up the Bowlers Do It In An Alley figurine

and gives it a good look...

He replaces the figurine then opens the bottom drawer

where he spots a bottle of Glenfiddich.  He lifts it

out...

He takes a paper cup and pours himself a shot.  He

drinks it down in one gulp and then crumples up the

cup, throwing it toward the NETS basketball

hoop/garbage can near the door.

He misses...

He looks more closely at the photographs...most are

family photos, a happy Jack with Kate, with Annie at

the pony rides, at Joshs birth...in every one of them,

Jack is smiling...

He turns his head...spots a small plaque on the wall

behind him.  It reads, Jack Campbell - E.F. Hutton #1

Junior Sales Associate, 1988.  Jack raises an

eyebrow...

He grabs it off the wall and looks at it more

carefully...

Jacks jarred into reality...

He stays there a moment...in shock.  Then...

The P.A. system comes to life...

CUT TO:

Kenny leading Jack toward the Mag Wheels section.

They approach Mag Wheels where TOMMY, a slick sales

associate, stands with a CUSTOMER looking at the

displays...

Kenny looks at him nervously.

Jack nods compassionately.  Kenny takes off leaving

Jack alone with his thoughts as Tommy approaches with

the customer.

The customer nods, impressed.

Another nod to the customer.

Tommys confused.

Jack grabs one of the alloy rims off the shelf, holding

it out to the customer.

The customer takes the wheel from Jack, looks at it

confused...

A satisfied smirk from the customer.

Jack is behind his desk, his tie loosened, on the

phone...

A KNOCK at the door...

He hangs up the phone as the door opens.  Big Ed sticks

his head in...

Big Ed walks in, followed by SYDNEY POTTER, 60s, a

tough looking man...

Potter extends a hand, Jack rises from his chair,

trying to place the name.  Then...

They shake hands.  Potter nods his head at Jack,

immediately impressed.  Big Ed is beaming.

A smile from Potter, then a serious look.

Potter stares Jack down.  But Jacks not about to be

intimidated by him.  He pauses, matching Potters

stare.  Then...

A surprised look from Potter.  An anxious laugh from

Big Ed.

Jack continues to stare down Potter.

The staring match continues.  Big Eds getting more

nervous.  Potters the first to blink.

Jack smiles.

A smile from Potter.  Jack gives Ed a wink.  Ed

watches, thrilled...

Potter nods at Jack.  Jack moves in for the kill.

Potter pauses a minute, then...

Big Ed smiles, letting out a relieved sigh.

Big Ed and Potter exit the office...

...leaving Jack there with a satisfied smile on his

face.

Jack is in bed watching CNBC...On the TV a young woman

REPORTER at the anchors desk...

The Global Health Systems and MedTech logos appear on a

graphic in the corner of the screen...

Jack stares in shock as the image changes to a super

confident looking Mintz shaking Bob Thomas hand at the

press conference.

Kate comes into the room from the hallway wearing only

Jacks NYU sweatshirt...

She goes over to the window and draws the blinds.  Jack

looks up at her, nods, then goes back to the TV.

Kate shuts off the TV.

Kate throws a Kate Bushs The Sensual World into the

CD player.

She climbs onto the bed, a seductive look on her face.

Kate starts kissing him...but Jacks a little

uncomfortable with the sudden intimacy...he pulls back,

a little nervous.

She starts kissing him again...but this time he just

goes with it, and as her hands run through his hair

hes brought back to a different time and place...

Jack momentarily pulls back and looks at her...its

like the first time hes really looked at her in eleven

years...

She smiles at him, almost uncomfortable with the

compliment...

Jack stares at her, entranced...Kate pulls back,

reacting to the intensity in his stare...

Jack freezes.  Theres love in her eyes but its not

meant for him...

She kisses him...

She gets up off the bed and heads for the bathroom...

He looks around...not sure what to do...Finally...

He turns onto his side and closes his eyes...

Kate emerges from the bathroom, she sees Jack on the

bed, hears his breathing heavy with sleep...

At once charmed and disappointed, Kate sighs.  She

turns off the CD player and heads into bed.

She pulls the covers up over Jack, shutting off the

light... She puts an arm around him, kissing him

sweetly on the neck...

Close in on Jacks face...turned away from Kate...he

opens his eyes...looks down at her arm...loneliness on

his face...

CHAPTER EIGHT - THE MENS DEPARTMENT

DISSOLVE TO:

Its mid-January and all signs of the Christmas season are

gone except for the snow on the ground in the busy parking

lot.

Kate, pushing Josh in the stroller and holding Annies

hand, passing through the Mens Dept., Jack lagging

behind, a bevy of shopping bags in hand and a

beleaguered look on his face.

An unhappy look on Jacks face.

Kate looks back at Jack.

Kate gives him a look.  Then...

Jack glances at the Mens Dept., sighs and gives Kate a

nod.  She takes off with the kids...and then he sees

it...

...the Zegna section.  Hes drawn to the neat rows of

beautiful suits like a moth to the light...

He approaches the rack, pulls out a dark green suit,

gently touching the soft wool.

Jack turns and sees a SALESMAN standing behind him.

CUT TO:

Jack, at a mirror wearing the Zegna suit.  It is

perfect for his frame.  The color is spectacular, the

line is dazzling.

Jack looks in the mirror, shutting everything else

out... its like hes seeing his old self...

Jack snaps out of his trance.  He sees Kate standing

behind him, Annie and Josh happily playing a few feet

away.

Kate raises an eyebrow, then looks at the price tag.

Jack looks at her...its a moment of decision.

Kate looks at Jack, a little surprised.

Kate just stands here, aghast...

Kate stares at him, shaking her head...

Kate stares at him in disbelief.  Then...

Kates words pierce Jack...he has to avert his eyes.

They stare at each other for a moment...a stand-off...

The blue mini-van makes its way down this road...

Theres an icy silence in the car...Jack is behind the

wheel, Kate next to him looking out the window, anger

on her face...

CHAPTER NINE - REMINISCING

Jack checks the rear-view mirror, sees Annie and Josh

in the back, both asleep...

Kate just keeps looking out the window.

She turns to him.

A glimmer in Jacks eye...

She glances at the kids sleeping in the back.

Jack nods, starting to piece it together.

A look from Kate.

Jack looks out at the road a moment, piecing it all

together in his mind.

Kate looks at him a little strangely.

She glances again at the kids in the back seat, then at

Jack.

A smile from Jack.  He admires her outlook even if he

cant bring himself to share it.

DISSOLVE TO:

A crowded suburban New Jersey bowling alley...

Jack stands at a lane holding a bowling ball, the

nickname The Hammer emblazoned over his bowling shirt

pocket...He approaches the line and throws the ball

down the lane...

Its ugly...The ball caroms off the hardwood into the

gutter.

Jack turns.  Arnie and the BOWLING TEAM are in the

scorekeeping area watching Jack make a mockery of the

sport.  Jack scowls.

Jack retrieves his ball, sets up, genuinely

concentrating...

Jack puts everything he has into the throw, heaving the

ball down the lane with as much grace and power as he

can muster...hitting the six pin and taking out four

others.

He turns, a fist pumped...But the guys could care

less...

Jack walks out of the mens room, heading toward the

lounge.  He sees a familiar face walking toward him...a

woman in a sexy little bowling outfit, carrying a

bowling ball to a far lane.

A moment of confusion as he tries to place the face.

Then...

Evelyn laughs.

She brushes past Jack, continuing to her lane...Jack

follows her with his eyes a moment, then...

She turns.

Evelyns surprised at Jacks directness.  She stands

there a beat, then walks back toward him.

Evelyn looks a little flush...she briefly fans her

face.

An intrigued smile from Jack.

She picks a piece of lint off his shirt.

A look of surprise from Jack.

Jack considers this for a moment.

A wide smile from Evelyn.

She turns, leaving Jack standing there, watching her

sashay back to her lane.

Jack walks into the lounge, a little dazed.  He heads

over to Arnie whos having a beer at the bar.

Jack looks at him curiously.

Arnie takes one last swig of his beer and gets up...

He leaves Jack alone, thinking...

CHAPTER TEN - CAKE WARS

Jack walks into the house carrying his bowling bag.  He

dumps the bag in the coat closet and walks into the

kitchen where...

Kate is at the counter, her back to him, poring over

some legal documents.

Kate turns around, revealing a huge hunk of chocolate

cake on a plate in front of her, a bite ready to go

into her mouth.

Kate takes the bite, a little piece of icing sticks to

the side of her mouth.

Jack approaches the counter.

She takes another bite.

He makes a grab for the plate but she holds it out

where he cant reach it.

They stare each other down a moment.  Then...

He tries to swipe the plate.  Kate jumps out of her

chair, running out of the kitchen with the cake,

laughing...

Jack takes off after her...chasing her through the

house... just about the catch up to her when...

She darts up the stairs, still laughing...he follows

her...

...reaches up...grabs her shirt...pulls her down

playfully on top of him...

She looks at him, then takes the whole piece in her

hand and smooshes it right in his mouth...

Beat.  Then, Jack starts laughing...

He takes a big clump of it and smooshes it in her

mouth.

They stay there a moment, lying on the stairs, feeding

each other cake, laughing.

Jack leans back on the stairs.  He looks at Kates

face, practically covered in cake, smiling, and

realizes...

...he hasnt laughed like this in thirteen years.

Then...

A sexy smile from Kate...they start kissing

passionately right there on the steps...its heating

up...

Kate pulls away.

Jack looks up at her, he can practically see the

passion drain from her face...

She gets up and heads up the steps, disappearing into

the bedroom...Jack shakes his head, frustrated.  Then,

he feels something licking at his hand...

He looks down and sees Lucy standing next to him,

wagging her tail, looking up at Jack with an Ive

gotta go look on her face.  Jack heaves a sigh,

then...

He leads the dog toward the front door...

Jack is walking Lucy.  He passes a house that looks

familiar to him.  Then he sees it...

...the name THOMPSON etched on the mailbox...

Its the Thompson house, now sans the garish Christmas

decorations, a drying Christmas tree tied up on the

curb, ready to be picked up as garbage...

Jack stops, pulling the dog back, looking up at the

house...

He sees a light on in the upstairs bedroom...the faint

outline of a woman reading by the window...

EVELYN THOMPSON...

Jack looks around, sees the street is empty, then

nudges the dog, leading her up the path to the house.

He gets to the front door...moves his hand up to the

doorbell...but its a tentative move...he keeps it

there a moment, perched at the button...but for some

reason he cant bring himself to push it...

He looks down the street, toward his own house, then to

the window upstairs.  Finally, he turns...

The front door opens and Jack walks in with Lucy on a

leash, his face red from the cold outside.

He gives the dog a pat on the rump, then takes off his

coat, hanging it and the leash on a hook by the door...

He walks through the quiet house, into the living room,

rubbing his hands together to warm them up.

CHAPTER ELEVEN  HOME MOVIES

He goes over to a glass bar stand and pours himself a

scotch, taking a sip, letting the alcohol warm him...

He strolls through the room, looking at some of the

family photos framed and hanging on the wall, focusing

on his own face in the pictures, studying the

expressions...

He moves to a pile of video tapes sitting on a shelf,

marked with titles like, Trip to Yosemite, 96" and

Joshs 1st Birthday.  He runs his fingers along the

tapes, stopping at one marked, Jack Singing.  His

eyes linger there a moment...

He puts his drink down and pops the tape in the VCR...

ON TV:

Its a party for Kates birthday thrown at the Kramers

house...same crowd of people as the Christmas party,

cheesy Happy Birthday decorations.

The image jerks up and down, surveying the crowd...

Bill Kramer at the piano, playing some light cocktail

music ...Kate talking with a group of friends...

Bill stops playing and looks up at Arnie.

Then...Jack comes into frame, a confident smile on his

face.

Jack is jarred by the image of himself on the video...

Jack on TV...he smiles as Kate walks into frame, easily

putting an arm around Jack...

She slaps him playfully on the arm...

Kate looks at him expectantly.  Then...

Jack doesnt have the greatest voice in the world but

hes not the least bit self-conscious...and Kate seems

to like it, theres a twinkle in her eye...some of the

guests focus their attention on Jack and Kate.

Jack winces, embarrassed, as he watches himself sing...

Bill Kramer still at the piano, chimes in with the

basic chords for Witchcract, sounding it out as he

goes along...

The camera catches the reactions of guests in the

crowd... the women, smiles on their faces, wrapped up

in the romance of the moment.  Envy on the mens faces

as they watch Jack serenade his wife...

A musical interlude from Bill as Jack takes off his

jacket...some HOOTS and HOLLERS from the crowd...Arnie

captures the image of Kate whistling at her husband...

Arnie follows with the camera as Jack strolls in front

of the gathered guests...

Jack watches himself move gracefully.  But its no

longer embarrassment on his face, its fascination...

Back in the video, the camera catches Evelyn Thompson

watching longingly as Jack moves back toward

Kate...Evelyn cant take it anymore, she abruptly turns

and walks toward the kitchen...

Jack raises an eyebrow...

In the video...Jack approaches Kate, she couldnt have

a more delighted look on her face.  He picks up the

verse...

The camera pans across the crowd, even the men are

getting into it, focused on Jack as he sings lovingly,

unashamed, to his wife...Nick Careli mouths the words

along with Jack, almost as if hes studying him,

revering him...

Jack watches the TV, seeing Nick do this...maybe he

underestimated his alter ego...

On the video...Jack staring into Kates eyes...

Jack and Kate exchange a sexy smile...

Jack kisses her on the lips...HOOTS and HOLLERS from

the crowd.

Kate brushes a hand across Jacks face...

Smash cut to Jack watching this...seeing the

connection, the heat between them...coveting it...

Back to the video...the music building...the crowd

completely in the palm of Jacks hand...

The camera closes in on Jack and Kate as the music

builds to a crescendo...

A little musical flourish from Bill as the crowd breaks

out into huge CHEERS and APPLAUSE...

Jack, watching this other version of himself in the video,

the center of attention, larger than life, focused on Kate...

Back on video...

Kate leans over, giving Jack a deep kiss...OOHS and

AHHS from the crowd...but Jack and Kate are in their

own little world...

Jack continues to watch himself on the video, his smile

fading, becoming a look of realization...then loss...

A tear at the corner of his eye...

The SOUND fades in Jacks head as the action in the

video continues...

Hes left standing there...silent, still...

DISSOLVE TO:

Lucy licking Jacks face.  Jack pushes the dog

away...as...

The ALARM RINGS.  Kate pushes the button to stop it.

Jack obliges without question, getting out of bed,

putting on a robe and slippers and exiting, still

practically half-asleep.

Jack walks into the kitchen.

He turns on the Mr. Coffee, gets a bottle from the

fridge, throws it in the microwave, removes it, and

heads upstairs.

...into Joshs room.  Josh is wide awake, standing up

in his crib, like a prisoner in a cell.

Jack gives him the bottle, pats his head perfunctorily,

and then walks out of the room...

CHAPTER TWELVE - HAPPY ANNIVERSARY

...and back into the bedroom to find Kate, sitting on

the bed, a wrapped present in front of her and a wide

smile on her face.

Jack stops, raising an eyebrow at the gift.  He looks

behind, as if to ask whether its for him, then back to

Kate.

Terror on Jacks face.

Jack musters up a smile, then approaches the gift.

He hesitates, then begins unwrapping the package,

revealing...

...a suit, similar in color and style to the Zegna

suit...

Jack is overcome with emotion...Yes, its a ZEENA, but

this is probably the nicest thing anyones ever done

for him...

Jack looks at Kates expectant face, suddenly

remembering how truly screwed he is.

Hes sweating bullets...watching as Kate gets a quizzical

look on her face...

Beat.  Kate looks at him like shes looking into his

soul.

Jack stands there, silent.

That didnt help.

Jack sees a tear run down her face...a pang of guilt on

his...

Kate wipes the tear away but they just keep coming.

Jack approaches her, holding out a hand but Kate pushes

it away, gets up and walks toward the bathroom...

Jack is left standing alone, holding Kates gift...

CUT TO:

Jack emerges from the house, steps out onto the porch

for some air...

He shakes his head, a mixture of frustration and self-

pity on his face.

He notices Annies bike leaning against the side of the

porch, and the bell that Cash gave him sitting on its

handle bar.

He takes a step toward it, and gives the bell a gentle

RING ...he looks around, as if hes expecting someone

to appear ...but theres no one.  He RINGS the bell

again, louder this time, really trying to attract

someones attention.

Nothing.  Finally, he lifts the bike up in the air,

RINGING the bell with everything hes got...

Pull back...Annie in the doorway...looking at him.

Jack turns and sees her, gently lowering the bicycle.

Jack is mixing a glass of chocolate milk.  Annie, arms

folded, is waiting expectantly.  He finishes, sliding

the glass to her.

She takes a long sip, puts the glass down, a chocolate

milk mustache on her lip.

Jack raises an eyebrow.

Then...

Annie smiles, impressed.

Suddenly, a look of confidence comes over Jacks face.

For the first time, he seems like a man in control.

Annie is sitting on the bed watching her mother get

dressed.

Kate, wearing a silky slip, walks out of her closet

carrying two dresses on hangers, a red one and a sexy

little black one.

Kate holds out the two dresses to Annie.

Annie thinks about it for a moment, taking it very

seriously...

Kate nods.  Shes about to put it on when she looks at

Annie...

Kate looks at her with a raised eyebrow, then nods.

Its true.  She puts down the dress and holds out a

hand to Annie.

Kate leads her to the makeup table, then opens a

lipstick...

Kate nods then applies some red lipstick to Annies

lips.

Kate rubs her lips together, showing Annie how to do

it.  Annie mimics her Mom, then Kate looks at her

Annies beaming.

A smile from Annie...

Pull back to reveal...Jack standing at the door,

watching ...appreciating the kind of mother Kate is...

A small, elegant French restaurant hidden on a tree-

lined lower Manhattan street.

Jack is wearing the suit Kate gave him.  Its not a

Zegna, but he looks pretty damn good.

He leads Kate toward the cloak room at this intimate

restaurant...

He helps her off with her coat.  Kates wearing the

sexy little black dress and we can immediately see its

effectiveness...

A charmed smile from Kate as she hands Jack her coat.

Jack hands the coats over to the COAT CHECK GIRL...

Jack fakes a SNEEZE, trying to cover up...Kate gives

him a pat on the back...

He takes Kate by the arm...

He leads her to the main room.

She looks out at the room, elegant tables, French

country decor, a PIANIST playing Cole Porter...

Jacks caught for a moment.  Then...

Jack puts his arm around her and kisses her on the

cheek...

Jack and Kate sit at a secluded table, a WAITER

standing next to them.  Jacks not even looking at the menu.

Kate looks at Jack, a mixture of confusion and awe on

her face.

Kate reaches over and pulls down the wine list, reading

it upside down.

A wince from Jack...for a moment there it was almost

perfect.

The waiter nods, then walks toward the kitchen...

A noncommittal nod from Kate.  Then Jack notices her

look over at the pianist, drawn in by the music.

A puzzled look from Kate.  Theres nobody else

dancing.  There isnt even much room to dance...

Jack gets up and holds out a hand.

Kate looks around again, then she smiles.

Kate rises, taking his hand.  Jack takes her in his

arms, swaying slowly in the limited amount of space,

confident and self-assured.

The pianist looks up, smiling, appreciating their role

in this romantic moment.

Kate moves with Jack, following his lead comfortably.

They look good together...in sync with each other...

People are watching them...some of the men are

impressed, others are scoffing, but the women are

clearly charmed...

Jack flashes her his most charming smile.

They continue to dance, in a world of their own...

Jack and Kate at the table enjoying a gourmet meal.

Jack holds out a fork with a piece of veal for Kate.

She takes a bite.

Jack takes a scallop from Kates fork.

Kate laughs.

Kate shoots him a look of curiosity.  Jack looks back

at her, sees the trust in her face...He puts down his

fork.

She hears the seriousness in his voice.

She nods.  Jack searches his mind for the right words.

Then...

Jack looks to her, expecting the worst.  But she just

nods reassuringly.  He continues...

Jack lets out a small smile.  Now hes the one whos

reassuring Kate.

He looks at her, staring into her eyes, almost

desperate for understanding.

A raised eyebrow from Jack.

He smiles, right there with her.

Kate laughs, nodding.

A pause, then...

Its as if shes inside his head.  They stay like this

for a moment, looking into each other.

She stops a moment, considering.  Then...

Jack nods.

Jack looks into Kates eyes.

Kate smiles at Jack, a loving, secure smile.  Its been

a while.

CUT TO:

The mini-van parked outside a small brownstone right on

the square.  Its like something out of a Henry James

novel... charming, meticulously maintained, elegant...

The door opens and Jack, carrying Kate in his arms,

enters...

Jack puts Kate down and she takes in the room, antique

furniture...its like walking into another world...

Jack smiles as he opens a champagne bottle sitting on a

silver ice bucket...

Kate smiles, clinking her glass with Jacks.

Kate saunters into the bedroom, looking at the king-

size poster bed, feeling the down quilt.  Jack follows

her...

Kate kisses him...when their lips separate, we can see

the powerful effect it has on him.

Jack looks deep into her eyes, stroking her hair, lost

in her.

They kiss again, a long soulful kiss.  Then...

Jack pulls back, a look of realization on his face...

She kisses him, their bodies intertwined...hands

caressing ...more and more passionate...then reaches

behind her to the light.  The room goes dark...

DISSOLVE TO:

Morning sun streams onto Jack and Kate in bed...

Kate, in Jacks arms, her head on his chest, a

contented smile on her face...

Jacks eyes open...adjust to the light.  He looks over

at Kate.

Theres something different in his eyes...something

deeper.  Jack smiles...a broad, Im in love kind of

smile.

Kate stirs, gently stroking Jacks chest.

Kate lifts her head, turning to face Jack.

Jack laughs.

Kate lays her head back on Jacks chest, looking at

Washington Square through the window.

Kate lifts her head and looks at him expectantly.  They

kiss.

The mini-van passes a sign that reads, Welcome to

Teaneck.

Annie walking through the downstairs of the house,

practicing her violin...its a noise bordering on

MUSIC, but not quite...

She walks into the kitchen where...

Jack stands at the counter in his robe, reading the

Newark Star Ledger and drinking a cup of coffee.

He lowers the paper, watches Annie with a smile as she

strolls through the room playing her violin badly...he

goes back to his paper.

Jack, still singing, donning his Dockers and short-

sleeve oxford...

The front door of the Campbell House...

Jack emerges in his work clothes, putting his coat on,

a bagel in his mouth...

He disappears from frame, the screen door closing

slowly behind him...

In a moment...Kate appears at the door, a cup of coffee

in her hand...she follows Jack with her eyes as he

heads to the car.

Then...a smile from Kate...

In a moment...Jack returns to frame and heads straight

into Kates arms...

...a passionate kiss as she leans against the door

post...

A smile from Jack as she pats him on the ass and sends

him on his way...

Jack, pointing to a stack of radials, is standing with

a MAN (40s) wearing a pale blue leisure suit and a pair

of high top Nike Air Jordans.

Just then, a black ROLLS ROYCE SILVER SERAPH pulls into

the lot, its front left tire riding on the rim...

Jack turns toward the door, but then looks curiously

back at the Rolls...something familiar about it...

Then...Peter Lassiter gets out of the car...

Jack walks inside...

...but hes still focused on Lassiter through the

window, cant take his eyes off him...

He gets to the phone...sees the light for line two

blinking ...he looks back outside, sees Kenny approach

Lassiter...

...back to the blinking phone light...he picks up the

phone...

But cant bring himself to hit the blinking light.

Then...

INTERCUT WITH ESTELLE IN HER OFFICE

He takes his hand away from the phone and walks back

outside the store...

CHAPTER THIRTEEN - PETER LASSITER

...towards Kenny and Lassiter.

Jack approaches, tapping Kenny on the shoulder.

Kenny nods then heads back inside...

CUT TO:

Jack leaning back in his chair, behind the desk of his

cluttered, cramped office.

Lassiter, sitting on the little chair across from Jack,

an intrigued look on his face...

A smile from Jack.

Jack savors the moment, until...

Hes jarred back to reality, a little crestfallen...

Lassiter nods, then takes a business card out of his

wallet.

A smile from Jack.

CUT TO:

Kate, sound asleep in bed...

Pan across to Jack, his eyes wide open, lost in

thought...

Jack wearing his Zeena suit, sitting behind his desk,

distracted, as he listens to HECTOR, 40s, the

GUATEMALEN MECHANIC.

Jack is shaking his leg anxiously under the desk as he

eyes the door...

Jack checks his watch...

Jack nods, then...

CUT TO:

Jack pulling up to the building in Lassiters Rolls...

He gets out of the car, walks to the building, feeling

good, confident, stopping to gaze up at the

skyscraper...he breathes in deeply, then heads

inside...

Jack enters, instinctively tossing the car keys to the

SECURITY GUARD...the guard looks at him like hes

crazy...

Jack and Lassiter walk together...

They walk into...

Past the assistants desk...

Lassiter doesnt even slow down...

Its Jacks old office but you wouldnt know it from

the decor...lots of country pine, a fabric sofa, and a

play pen where the bar used to be.  Jack enters,

immediately struck by the difference...

Mintz, a confident look on his face, gets up from the

desk and goes to shake Jacks hand.

They shake hands.

A chuckle from Mintz.

Another laugh from Mintz.

Jack nods, sits down on the plush sofa, Mintz and

Lassiter take the chairs.

Jacks a little taken aback by the question, not

realizing he was walking into an interview...

He crosses his legs, trying to get comfortable.

Jack nods...

Jack pauses, analyzing the situation...the patronizing

questions, the smirk on Mintzs face...

As Jack stares into their faces, he realizes the extent

of his handicap...

He stops, takes a moment, looking at Mintz and Lassiter

then ...a confident smile.

A gleam in Jacks eye.

A raised eyebrow from Mintz.

Mintz and Lassiter follow Jack with their eyes as he

crosses the room to the desk, pours himself a glass of

water...

Jacks confidence is throwing Mintz off, but Lassiter

appears intrigued...

Mintz covers his embarrassment with a smile...

Jack looks around the office then back to Mintz.

A laugh from Lassiter as Mintz sits there stewing, a

caught look on his face.

A raised eyebrow from Lassiter, but hes game...

Lassiters impressed.

Jack smiles.

On Lassiter...nodding his head. Mintz, a plastered-on

smile.

Lassiter returns Jacks gaze with equal intensity. In a

moment, he turns to Mintz.

CUT TO:

Jack and Alan walking side by side down the hallway...

EMPLOYEES passing them by, greeting Mintz, Mintz waving

back...

They turn a corner, coming into a deserted section of

the corridor.

Mintz stops, turning to Jack.  Jack returns Mintzs

gaze with a quizzical look.

Jacks a little taken aback.

Jack stands there, staring at Mintz, silent,

expressionless.

Then, a broad smile from Jack.

Now its Mintzs turn to look quizzical.

Jack smiles at Alan one more time, then turns...

Jack heads down the corridor, whistling a happy tune,

leaving Mintz standing there, bewildered.

CHAPTER FOURTEEN - A PERFECT LIFE?

CUT TO:

A double door opens and Jack leads Kate into this huge

duplex.  Kate looks around, taking the place in.

The place is incredible...marble floors, architectural

lines, high tech fixtures, elegant modern furniture...

its striking but not at all homey like the Jersey

house.

Jack nods.

Jack chuckles.

Kates confused.

Jack measures her reaction. Its not good...

Kate just looks at him, in shock. Then...

Jacks starting to struggle...

Jacks back on his heels...seeing his dream picked

apart...

Hes frustrated...he pauses a moment to gather

himself. Then...

A sad chuckle from Kate.

Jacks taken aback by the intensity of her tone.

Kate stands there, wounded...

Silence.  Kate looks him in the eye  a deep, piercing

look...

Kate picks up her bag and walks out of the apartment.

Annie is in a nightgown, practicing her violin. Jack

walks in.

Its all he can do to hold back cringing at the missed

notes. Annie finishes the piece, lowering the bow.

Annie starts PLAYING again as Jack looks at the

dresser. She has 20 or so family photos lined up and

down its sides...

Jack studies them...in every one Jacks face is totally

contented.  Jack studies them, looking at his own face.

Annie lowers the bow, watching him...

Jack turns to her.

She smiles, then starts PLAYING again.  He turns back

to the pictures...

Jack...standing in front of the desk, nursing a drink.

He looks at Lassiters business card, sitting on the

surface of the desk...

He gazes around the room...his eyes coming to rest on a

bookshelf...a book...

He moves toward it...looking at its spine...its a

tattered copy of Vonneguts Cats Cradle.  He pulls

it off the shelf, theres something inside...a

bookmark...

...a PAN AM ticket jacket sleeve...

...inside...a boarding pass...From: London/Heathrow,

To: New York/JFK, 10/4/87.

He looks at it...somethings not right...

Then...a NOISE...

Jack turns and sees Kate walking into the doorway,

standing there...She sees Jack holding the Pan Am

ticket sleeve.

A quizzical look from Jack.

She continues into the room, leaning against a

bookshelf.

Jack watches her as she lets out a small sigh.

Kate smiles gently as she pictures this.

The words are like a warm embrace for Jack...

Kate smiles lovingly at Jack...she walks over to him,

kisses him gently on the forehead.

She turns and heads out of the room, leaving him there,

the boarding pass still in hand, staring lovingly at

her as she goes...

Jack walks into the room...

The lights are off, Kate already in bed sleeping.

He undresses for bed, unable to take his eyes off Kate.

Finally, he lifts the covers and climbs into bed next

to her, moving closer to her, putting an arm around

her, drawing her in...

In her sleep, Kate nestles in Jacks embrace.  He

savors the feeling, then closes his eyes as...

They lay there...side by side...together...a single

person.

DISSOLVE TO:

The morning light streams into the room.  Kate opens

her eyes.  Jacks not in bed.  A look of curiosity.

Then, she hears LAUGHTER from outside.

She goes over to the window...opens the blinds...

revealing...

Jack in the backyard, LAUGHING with joy, playing in the

snow with Annie and Josh.

Kate watches...a satisfied smile sweeping across her

face...

...Jack reaches out and snags Annie...she CACKLES in

delight...

The three of them fall over onto the soft white snow...

The laughter from the kids is uncontrollable, Jacks

joy is just as palpable...

Finally, Annie stops laughing and grabs Jack around the

neck, hugging his tight.

DISSOLVE TO:

Jack walks over to a utility shelf, fishing around

until he finds a bag of rock salt...he grabs it, sees

its empty...

And then he hears it...the sound of a BICYCLE BELL

RINGING, echoing through the room.

A shudder passes through his body...

He turns and sees Annie at the open garage door,

sitting on her bike, ringing the BELL.

Its an eerie moment for Jack...

On Jacks anxious face...

CHAPTER FIFTEEN  SAYING GOODBYE

On Jack...crouched down in an aisle of this local

convenience store...checking out the bags of rock

salt...

He looks at the price tag on one of the bags...

On the entrance to the store...the door opens, a YOUNG

GIRL, 17, enters, an average suburban teenager...

She glances at a fashion magazine, picks up a package

of gum...

From the POV of the cashier, we see the girl approach

the counter...

On Jack, crouched down in the aisle. He grabs a bag of

salt from the shelf, when...

Jack registers the voice...he rises slowly, looking

over to the front counter...where he sees...

Cash, dressed in a typical chain convenience store

uniform, ringing up the teenager...

An excited smile from Jack at the sight of Cash...

Then...the color drains from Jacks face...

Jack moves toward Cash at the counter...

The girl eyes Jack curiously, then removes a dollar

bill from her pocket and slides it across the counter

to Cash...

Cash reaches into the register, taking out change for

ten dollars...he hands the girl $9.35...

The girl looks at the money, realizing that Cash has

given her the wrong change...

The girl looks at Cash talking to Jack...

The girl hesitates...Cash turns to her...

She looks at him, a moment of decision, then...

Cash ignores Jack, watching the girl as she heads to

the door, hesitates a moment, then walks out...

A look of disappointment on Cashs face as he reaches

into his pocket, pulling out a little notebook...

Cash looks at Jack.

Cash looks at him, compassion on his face.

Jack throws six bucks on the counter...

Jack walks determinedly toward the exit. He stops and

turns at the door...

Cash follows him with his eyes, a proud look on Cashs

face as Jack leaves...

Jack walks to Josh.  Hes sleeping soundly.

Jack gently kisses Josh on the head, careful not to

wake him.

Jack is standing over Annie, kissing her on the cheek.

She closes her eyes as Jack stands there for a moment

looking at her, sadness all over his face.

Finally, he turns to go...

The clock reads, 11:17.  Kate is already in bed as

Jack walks in.

Jack approaches her, sitting on the bed...

Kate nods.

She kisses him on the cheek.

He takes her arms in his hands and looks her in the

eyes.

Shes a bit confused but she couldnt be more in love

with him.

Jack stands up, heading toward the door.

Snow begins to fall...

Jack with Lucy on a leash, walking side by side, his

mind elsewhere...

Lucy leads him around a corner...to a large open

field...

Lucy stops.  She looks back at Jack, then out to the

open field.

Jack removes the leash. The dog bounds happily out

into the field, looking for just the right spot.

Jack puts his hands in his coat pocket...pulls out a

half-eaten roll of PEPPERMINT LIFESAVERS, puts one in

his mouth...

He looks up at the sky, snow gently falling onto his

face. Its cold, but its beautiful...peaceful and

still...the air clean and crisp...

He breathes in the fresh air, the Lifesaver dissolving

in his mouth, watching the dog...

The room is dark...

Jack enters, sees Kate sleeping soundly in bed.

He sits down in a chair and watches Kate asleep, a sad

look in his eyes...

As he continues to watch her, to listen to her, his own

eyelids appear to grow heavy...

He tries to fight the sleep...opening his eyes...

focusing on her...but its no use...

Finally, he closes his eyes...falling into a deep

sleep...

CHAPTER SIXTEEN  THE OLD LIFE

DISSOLVE TO:

A PHONE RINGING

Jack, flat on his back in bed...Light streams onto

his face ...he stirs...

THE PHONE STILL RINGING...

Jack reaches over to Kates side...theres no one

there.

Pull back to reveal...his old Manhattan apartment...

his old dressy clothes strewn on the floor...

Jack, sleep still in his eyes, reaches over...hes not

wearing any pajamas...picks up the phone...

He drops the phone...turns back over...lets his eyes

stay closed for another moment...then...

His eyes open...

He looks around...sees his shirtless torso...then his

old apartment...tailored clothes on the floor.

Jack looks at the clock, 9:23 a.m.  He gets out of

bed, throwing on pants and a pair of shoes, and leaves

the room...

...Jack walks to the door just as...

The doorbell RINGS.  He stops, then cautiously opens

the door, seeing...

PAULA, wearing a long overcoat and a wide smile on her

face.

Jack looks at her.

Paula opens her coat  the only thing she has on

underneath is a sexy little teddy.

Jack stares at her, totally confused...

Jack grabs a leather jacket then walks right by a

shocked Paula and heads out the door, practically

running down the corridor.

CUT TO:

Jacks Ferrari speeds down the bridge, toward Jersey...

Jacks Ferrari pulls up in the driveway and he hops

out. He races to the front door, POUNDING on it...

A MAN in a Van Heusen shirt and Hagar slacks answers.

Jack stares at him in shock.

Jack starts rapping his head against the door post,

much to the shock of the guy standing there.

Jack shakes his head mournfully.

Jack walks off, beleaguered...

Jacks car drives by as Arnie carries a bicycle box out

to the garbage.  The car screeches to a halt in front

of the driveway.

Arnie peers at Jack through the window.

Jack driving...a CELL PHONE RINGS.

A curious look on Jacks face, its been a while since

hes heard that sound.

Silence from Jack...

Finally, Jack shakes his head, defeated.

CUT TO:

Its a beehive of activity...

Jacks TEAM, anxiously going over reports and flow

charts, working the phones, drinking coffee...

Jack enters, still reeling from his experience, taking

a moment to observe the action...

Mintz spots him...

He hangs up the phone as all eyes in the room turn to

Jack, immediately fixating on how disheveled he looks.

Jack looks at Alan for a minute.

Alan looks at him, confused.

A sad laugh from Jack.

Jack wallows for another moment in his own sadness...

Jack snaps out of it, turning to Alan and the rest of

the group...

Jack leaves the office to the shocked stares of his

team.

Jacks limo makes its way downtown.

Jack in the back seat of the limo, sadly looking out

the window, watching the buildings pass by...

He turns away, looks at the phone...haltingly picks it

up...

Jack jots something down on a business card.  Then he

hangs up the phone, thinks a moment, looks out the

window, then turns to the driver...

CUT TO:

123A	EXT. KATES BUILDING - DAY

Jacks limo pulls up outside this house on Washington

Mews...

Jack gets out...

Jack stands outside an apartment door.  He hears The

Clashs London Calling BLARING from inside.

He rings the bell...the volume of the music gets

lower...

Kates assistant, LORI, 20s, opens the door...Jack

exchanges a curious look with her.

The woman looks at him, then walks back inside...

Beat. Jack waits anxiously at the door. Then...

Jacks eyes come alive as Kate appears wearing jeans

and a white blouse...except for her hair, she looks the

same.

She searches for a kind word, but he looks terrible.

She looks at him another moment, then turns...

Kate walks inside, Jack follows her in sheepishly.

125	INT. KATES APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

...Jack accidentally knocks into a stack of boxes,

sending a GLASS CANDY DISH CRASHING to the floor,

SHATTERING it...

Jack looks up at...a beehive of activity  Lori on the

phone, boxes stacked everywhere, TWO MOVERS packing

up...

Jack watches this back and forth.

Kate heads over to some tall wardrobe boxes.

A relieved smile from Jack...

Jacks smile disappears as Kate hands him a sealed box

marked, Jack...

Jack stands here, looking at the box, then at Kate...

A bemused LAUGH from Kate.  Then she sees hes not

laughing...

A nod from Jack...

One of the movers passes by Jack carrying a box...

Jack looks at Kate, flush with the realization that

this isnt the same woman he knew thirteen years

ago, or left yesterday.

He leaves...

CUT TO:

126	INT. JACKS APARTMENT - EVENING

A scratchy Zeppelin album, the song All Of My Love,

fills the room. Jack, a fifth of Bushmills by his

side, goes through the box Kate gave him.

He removes a worn leather jacket, feeling the soft

material, then a Mondale for President button, which

Jack smiles upon seeing, a couple Neil Young concert

ticket stubs...

He puts the leather jacket on, then sticks the Mondale

button on the lapel.  He digs back into the box,

finding...

A messy, dog-eared copy of Cats Cradle...not the one

Kate gave him at the airport, the one she replaced...

Jack looks at it for a moment...lost in his sadness...

then...

He looks over at the clock, it reads, 8:29.

CHAPTER SEVENTEEN  ONE LAST TRY

CUT TO:

Jack in his Ferrari, racing down the highway at 120

MPH...

He looks at the clock, it reads, 8:46. He opens up

the throttle...

Snow is falling as Jacks car races up to the terminal

then stops. He jumps out. An AIRPORT SECURITY GUARD

sees him...

Jack runs into the terminal, ignoring the guard...

Jack looking at the board. The nine oclock to Paris -

Gate 8A. Jack sprints toward the gate...

...and gets there just as the flight is boarding.

Jack looks through the crowd, spotting Kate near the

front of the line, about to hand her ticket to the gate

attendant.

He pushes through the throng of people, drawing some

annoyed stares, finally making his way over to Kate.

Kate turns and sees Jack, a look of puzzlement on her

face.

Jack just stands there, unsure...

Kate turns her back to Jack, leaving him standing

there...

He watches her walk to the podium, realizing shes

right...

He sees Kate reach the podium...hand her ticket to the

attendant...

Finally, a look of determination crosses his face...

Kate turns to him with a look that could kill.

...Kate looks at him, half-mortified, half-

interested...

Jack shakes his head, remembering, fighting back the

tears...

Kates expression has sifted from annoyance to

curiosity.

Jack begins walking slowly toward Kate...the world of

the airport going on around him, Jack not caring...

Kate raises an eyebrow. Its something shes thought

about.

Jack gets closer and closer...Kates spellbound now...

imagining the picture Jacks painting...

Jack walks into a piece of carry-on luggage sitting by a

row of passengers...

Jacks nearly there...

Not in this life, and Kate knows it...

Kate is perfectly still, Jacks words echoing in her

ears.

Hes right in front of her. She cant take her eyes

off him.

Silence. Jack and Kate in their own little

world...airport business going on around them...

Jacks words resonate in her ears. He gently touches a

hand to her arm...

She stands there, frozen, staring into Jacks eyes,

searching for the answer.

DISSOLVE TO:

Jack and Kate, framed in the window of a nearly empty

airport coffee shop...through the window, we see snow

falling outside.

From a distance we see them...TALKING and LAUGHING over

a cup of coffee...

FADE OUT.

