EXT. WOODS. DAY

An apple tree stands alone at the top of a hill. A handsome

fox dressed in an Edwardian-style navy velvet suit leans

against it with his arms folded and his legs crossed, chewing

on a reed of wild grass. He holds an apple core in his paw.

He spits out a seed. He looks off across a meadow that

descends into the valley below.

A female fox strides briskly up the hill. Her coat is a

paler, especially beautiful shade of fox-red, and she wears

men's trousers and a dark tunic. Fox says as she approaches:

What'd the doctor say?

MRS. FOX

Nothing. Supposedly, it's just a twenty-

four hour bug. He gave me some pills.

I told you. You probably just ate some

bad gristle.

Fox brushes the fur on Mrs. Fox's ears with his paws. They

walk together along the crest of the hill to a fork in the

path. Fox points:

Should we take the short cut or the

scenic route?

MRS. FOX

Let's take the short cut.

But the scenic route is so much prettier.

MRS. FOX

OK, let's take the scenic route.

Great. It's actually slightly quicker,

anyway.

Fox throws his apple core away over his shoulder and dances a

quick circle around Mrs. Fox, wrapping his arm around her

waist extravagantly and making her laugh as they start off

down the scenic route.

2.

EXT. FARM. DAY

A rustic cottage surrounded by a small barn, a tin silo, and

a rickity windmill. There is a sheep in a little pasture. A

sign on a rail says Berkus Squab. Fox and Mrs. Fox watch from

the bushes outside a fence.

MRS. FOX

What is a squab?

You know what a squab is. It's like a

pigeon, I suppose. Anyway, it's a type of

bird we can eat.

Fox motions toward the edge of the property.

Should we go through the hole under the

horse fence or climb the rail over the

bridle path?

MRS. FOX

Well, I guess the horse fence would be a

little safer.

But the bridle path puts us out right

next to the squab shack.

Mrs. Fox hesitates. She fiddles with her paws. She nods

nervously. She shakes slightly. Fox looks at her funny.

What's wrong? I've never seen you like

this. You're acting all skittish. Don't

worry. I've been stealing birds for a

living since before I could trot.

MRS. FOX

OK, let's take the --

No, we'll do the horse fence. You gave me

the scenic route already.

Fox flashes a smile. He says suddenly:

By the way, you look unbelievably

beautiful tonight. You're practically

glowing. Maybe it's the lighting.

3.

Mrs. Fox is, in fact, glowing, albeit ever so slightly. She

stares at Fox enigmatically. Fox touches his paw to her

cheek.

(NOTE: an alternate version of Mrs. Fox will be used for this

shot which can be literally lit from within.)

With the speed, grace, and precision of athletes, Fox and

Mrs. Fox: dart through a hole under a painted fence; race

along a thin trail next to a garage; crawl beneath a window

where a blonde woman serves an early dinner, dealing

hamburgers like playing cards to three little, blond

children; creep past a doghouse where a golden retriever

sleeps with an airline sleeping mask over his eyes; and

shimmy over a doorway outside a workshop where a blond,

bearded farmer hacks into a stump with a hatchet, completely

pulverizing it into sawdust. They arrive in front of a wooden

shed. Fox whistles sharply with a half-chirp and performs a

rapid reverse-flip with a flourish.

Fox lifts a loose board. He looks to Mrs. Fox and puts his

finger to his lips for her to be quiet. She shrugs

impatiently. They duck inside.

They come back out. Each holds a dead, bloody pigeon in

his/her teeth. They start to run away. Fox looks up above

them. He stops. He frowns. He takes the pigeon out of his

mouth and says curiously, pointing toward the sky:

What's that? I think that's a fox-trap!

Look at this.

MRS. FOX

Get away from there.

Is it spring-loaded? Yeah...

(pointing to different spots)

I guess if you come from over there, and

you're standing at the door to the squab

shack, this little gadget probably

triggers the --

(gesturing to Mrs. Fox)

Move out of the way, darling. That's

right where it's going to land.

Mrs. Fox runs back to Fox and tugs at his arm.

MRS. FOX

Come on! Stop it! Let's go!

4.

Fox pulls on a little, hanging wire. A chain unrolls rapidly

from a pulley, and a steel cage falls slap down on top of

them. A small tag on the base of it says Badoit et Fils. Fox

and Mrs. Fox stand motionless, side by side, in disbelief.

No, it just falls straight down right

here, doesn't it? I guess it's not spring-

loaded.

Sounds come from around the farm: the dog barks, doors open,

voices yell, lights come on. Mrs. Fox turns to Fox and says

MRS. FOX

I'm pregnant.

Fox stares at Mrs. Fox. He is confused but moved.

Wow. We're going to have a cub. Honey,

that's great news!

MRS. FOX

If we're still alive tomorrow morning, I

want you to find another line of work.

Pause. Fox nods.

A wide shot of the entire valley. There are thick woods,

green and yellow fields, two ponds, a small village, and a

river running through the middle.

2 YEARS LATER ( 12 Fox-Years)

EXT. HOLE. DAY

The entrance to a tunnel under a dirt mound covered with

holly bushes.

INT. HOLE. DAY

A small, comfortable kitchen off a living room with two

bedrooms behind it. Fox sits at the kitchen table reading a

newspaper called the Gazette. His fur has gone grey at the

temples, and he now wears a dark, double-breasted, pin-

striped suit with a conservative necktie. Mrs. Fox stands at

the counter-top stirring something in a bowl with a whisk.

5.

She is dressed in a paint-splattered, cream-colored,

Victorian-style dress.

A column in the newspaper with Fox's picture at the top of

it. The caption reads: Fox about Town with Fantastic Mr. Fox.

Does anybody actually read my column? Do

your friends ever talk about it?

MRS. FOX

Of course. In fact, Rabbit's ex-

girlfriend just said to me last week, "I

should read Foxy's column," but they

don't get the Gazette.

(yelling into the next room)

Ash! Let's get cracking!

Why would they? It's a rag-sheet.

I want to say I hate my job, but that

would make it seem more important to me

than I want people to think it is.

Mrs. Fox puts down her bowl and starts slicing a loaf of

bread. A small, narrow fox cub comes out of one of the

bedrooms wearing white pants and no shirt. His hair is

smashed all onto one side sticking up wrong. He is Ash.

I'm sick.

MRS. FOX

You're not sick.

I have a temperature.

Mrs. Fox goes quickly over to Ash and puts her paw to his

forehead.

MRS. FOX

You don't have a temperature.

Ash turns away and says as he goes back into his bedroom:

I don't want to go.

6.

MRS. FOX

Hurry up. You're going to be late.

Mrs. Fox goes back into the kitchen and starts making toast

and coffee. Fox whispers to her:

I love the way you handled that.

Mrs. Fox looks at Fox sideways. She says loudly to Ash:

MRS. FOX

Your cousin Kristofferson's coming first

thing tomorrow morning. I want you to be

extra nice to him, because he's going

through a very hard time right now, OK?

Ash comes back out of his bedroom. He now wears a white

cardigan and white socks with his white pants tucked into

them. He says aggressively:

Where's he going to sleep?

MRS. FOX

We're going to make a bed for him in your

room tonight.

I can't spare the space. Put him in Dad's

study.

Fox says without looking up from his newspaper:

Dad's study is occupied by Dad.

Ash goes back into his bedroom. Fox lowers his newspaper. He

looks around the room. He says to Mrs. Fox:

I don't want to live in a hole anymore.

It makes me feel poor.

Mrs. Fox stops buttering the toast. She looks to Fox and says

MRS. FOX

We are poor -- but we're happy.

Fox twists his paw in the air, indicating:

7.

Comme-ci, comme-ga. Anyway, the views are

better above ground.

Mrs. Fox nods. She brings Fox a plate of toast and a cup of

coffee. Fox takes her paw and says:

I'm seven non-fox-years old now. My

father died at seven and a half. I don't

want to live in a hole anymore, and I'm

going to do something about it.

Fox kisses Mrs. Fox's paw. He suddenly eats three slices of

toast in a second and a half, savagely but neatly. He stands

and picks up his cup of coffee.

Well, I'm off.

Fox throws back the last of his coffee, kisses Mrs. Fox on

the back of her neck, grabs his briefcase, tucks his

newspaper under his arm, and walks to the door. He shouts

Have a good day, my darlings!

Ash comes out the bedroom again. He has now added a white

cape to his ensemble and is in the middle of brushing his

teeth. There is toothpaste all over his mouth. He waves

briefly to Fox and goes back into his bedroom. Fox looks

puzzled.

What's he wearing?

Mrs. Fox shrugs. She smiles sadly and waves to Fox. Fox waves

back. He starts to go out but pauses to look down at a folded

up section of his newspaper.

A clipping from the real estate section. There is a

photograph of a wide, sprawling beech tree at the top of a

hill. A caption below it reads:

Tree Living, Great Views, Classic Beech

INT. TREE. DAY

A door opens into a wide, low space with peeling paint. There

is an old chair against the wall, a bare light bulb hanging

8.

from the ceiling, and a layer of dust over everything. A

skinny weasel in a khaki outfit immediately starts in as Fox

comes into the living room:

Obviously, it's first growth, indigenous.

Original dirt floor, good bark, skipping

stone hearth --

Weasel is interrupted by a loud banging clank. He and Fox

peer into the next room. A heavy-set opossum with a cowlick

tinkers with some pipes under the kitchen sink. He is Kylie.

Weasel snaps at him:

What'd I tell you? I'm showing the

property. You're not supposed to be here.

(checking his watch)

Oh, cuss. What time is it? I'm sorry.

distractedly, slightly annoyed:

He's a little --

Weasel makes a fluttering gesture with his paw. Fox nods. He

points at a bucket on the floor next to Kylie among bolts,

tools, and washers.

What's in the bucket, Mr. Kylie?

Just minnows. You want one?

Certainly. Thank you.

Kylie reaches into his bucket and hands Fox a live, wriggling

minnow. Fox swallows it whole.

Fox stares out the window at three sprawling poultry

compounds in the distance. Black smoke pours out of a

farmhouse chimney on each property. A sign on a water tower

in the first compound reads Boggis Farms and has a picture of

a chicken on it. A sign on a silo in the second compound

reads Bunce Industries and has a picture of a goose on it. A

sign on a windmill in the third compound reads Bean, inc.

9.

(since 1976) and has a picture of a turkey with an apple on

it.

Weasel says pointedly from across the room:

May I ask what you do for a living, Mr.

Fox?

Fox's eyes narrow as he looks out, entranced, with his mouth

slightly open. He says almost inaudibly:

I used to steal birds, but now I'm a

newspaper man.

Oh, sure. I've seen your by-line.

Fox snaps out of his reverie and says suddenly:

Good afternoon, gentlemen.

Fox shakes hands abruptly with Weasel and starts across the

room. Weasel is about to ask something when Fox stops in the

doorway, looks back, and says:

Oh, and Kylie -- thank you for the

minnow. It was superb.

Kylie smiles. Fox exits.

EXT. RIVER. DAY

A beaver dam across a bend in a fast stream. A still pond

sits above it. There is an entrance tunnel tucked beneath a

rock.

INT. BEAVER DAM. DAY

A large room of twig, stick, and mud construction. A card on

the door reads Badger, Beaver, and Stoat, L.L.P, Attorneys at

Law. An anxious badger sits at his desk reviewing some

documents. Fox paces the floor with his hands clasped behind

his back.

Don't buy this tree, Foxy. You're

borrowing at nine and a half, which

stinks like cuss, plus moving into the

most dangerous neighborhood in the

10.

country for someone of your type of

species.

You're exaggerating, Badger.

Bull-cuss! I'm sugar-coating it, man!

This is Boggis, Bunce, and Bean! Three of

the meanest, nastiest, ugliest farmers in

the history of this valley!

An uneasy otter secretary peers in at them from the outer

office. Fox looks intrigued.

Really? Tell me about them.

Silence. Badger sighs. He loosens his tie and settles in.

All right...

A fat man with a huge moustache. He wears a tweed suit which

stretches at the buttons so much that they look like they are

about to snap off. He holds a carbine rifle. He stands in

front of his farm, which contains row upon row of chicken

houses. He has an ugly face. He is Boggis.

BADGER (V.0.)

Walter Boggis is a chicken farmer.

Probably the most successful in the

world.

INT. BOGGIS' KITCHEN. DAY

Boggis sits at a chopping block tearing into a boiled chicken

with a fork and a meat cleaver.

BADGER (V.0.)

He's unbelievably fat -- which maybe is

genetic -- but he also eats three boiled

chickens smothered with dumplings every

day for breakfast, lunch, supper, and

dessert. That's twelve in total, per

diem.

11.

Boggis' ear. Furry black and white hairs grow out of it. A

fly buzzes around, lands on it, and crawls inside. Boggis

sticks his pinky in after it and scratches.

BADGER (V.0.)

He never takes a bath, as a result of

which his ear holes are clogged with all

kinds of muck and wax and bits of chewing

gum and dead flies and so on.

A short, overweight man with one slightly wandering eye. He

wears overalls and a cap. He holds a twelve-gauge shotgun. He

stands in front of his farm, which consists of several long

buildings in rows like a factory. He has a nasty face. He is

Bunce.

BADGER (V.0.)

Nathan Bunce is a duck and goosefarmer.

He owns about 2 million ducksand 500,000

geese. You might say he's kind ofa pot-

bellied dwarf of some kind.

EXT. SWIMMING POOL. DAY

Bunce stands up to his nose in water. The depth reads 4FT.

BADGER (V.0.)

He's so short his chin would probably be

under water in the shallow end of any

swimming pool on the planet.

INT. BUNCE'S KITCHEN. DAY

Bunce sits on two stacked telephone books on a chair. He guts

a dead goose, cutting out its liver and mashing it with a

fork. A plate of doughnuts cools on the table.

BADGER (V.0.)

He eats only doughnuts with smashed-up

goose livers injected into them.

A tall, skinny man in a long trench-coat. He holds a Luger

pistol. He stands in front of his farm, which is an apple

orchard that stretches over thousands of acres. He has a mean

face. He is Bean.

BADGER (V.0.)

Franklin Bean is a turkey and apple

farmer. He keeps his birds in an orchard

12.

BADGER (V.0.) (cont'd)

where they run around squawking and

gobbling, surrounded by apples.

Bean aims his Luger and shoots a humming bird. Crazy turkeys

run about among the trees.

INT. BEAN'S SHED. DAY

Bean works at a moonshine-type cider still, boiling chemicals

and sipping from a bottle.

BADGER (V.0.)

He's probably anorexic, because he never

eats anything. He's on a liquid diet of

strong, alcoholic cider, which he makes

from his apples. He's as skinny as a

pencil, as smart as a whip -- and easily

the biggest cusshole I've ever met in my

life.

Fox and Badger in Badger's office.

In summation, I think you just got to not

do it, man. That's all.

I understand what you're saying, and your

comments are valuable, but I'm going to

ignore your advice.

Badger leaps out of his chair and slams the office door. He

points his finger at Fox and screams:

The cuss you are!

The cuss am I?

Fox jumps up and points back at Badger, screaming:

Don't cussing point at me!

Are you cussing with me?

13.

Do I look like I'm cussing with you?

Fox and Badger begin to snarl and snap savagely, knocking

into the furniture as they circle around the room pointing in

each other's faces. Suddenly, they calm down all at once,

sighing deeply. Pause.

One last thing: something's probably

about to happen to me at work which I

can't put my finger on but have a funny

feeling about. How can I protect myself

legally?

Are you about to get fired?

Slash quit.

A door with a frosted glass window. Letters painted on it

read Gazette, Editor-in-Chief, Phillip Squirrel. Fox's

silhouette stands across from that of a small squirrel

sitting at a desk. The squirrel's silhouette says in a

You're fired.

Slash I quit. Here's my letter of

resignation.

Fox's silhouette throws an envelope onto the squirrel's desk.

Two muskrats in orange moving company uniforms unloads boxes

and furniture from a wagon and carries them into the tree.

Fox holds open the front door and barks orders at them.

Two muskrats in white painter's uniforms paints the walls of

the living room and the trim around the windows with rollers

and brushes. Fox stands on the drop-cloth and barks orders at

them.

14.

Two muskrats in blue electrician's uniforms work in the

kitchen. Mrs. Fox watches over their shoulders and barks

orders at them.

Fox holds up a pair of flowered curtains in front of a

window. He looks to Mrs. Fox. She stares at the curtains

thoughtfully. She raises an eyebrow.

Fox and Mrs. Fox sit in the windowsill looking out at the

sunset. Ash stands in-between them. The flowered curtains

wave in the breeze. Fox puffs on a pipe. Ash blows a soap

bubble. Mrs. Fox puts out her paw and a butterfly lands on

it. She smiles at Fox. He puts his arm around her. He raises

a pair of binoculars to his eyes.

A binocular shot of an industrial shack with Boggis Chicken

House #1 stencilled on the front of it.

Fox lowers the binoculars. His eyes sparkle.

EXT. TREE. DAY

Ash stands poised on a high branch over an inflatable

swimming pool printed with a red-tartan plaid pattern. He

wears over-sized swim trunks with a pattern of acorns printed

on them. Fox sits in the grass eating an apple below with

Mrs. Fox. She is painting at an easel. Ash yells:

Watch this, Dad!

Fox looks up. Ash leaps into the air and does a spectacularly

awkward back-flip during which he appears to have four arms

and three legs randomly attached to his body, flailing

wildly. He hits the water by the side of his head and smacks

into the surface back-first with a pained yelp. Fox grimaces.

He claps mildly.

(NOTE: an alternate version of Ash with four arms and three

legs randomly attached to his body will be used for this

stunt.)

Good jump, Ash! Remember to keep your

tail tucked!

Fox looks at Mrs. Fox's canvas. It is a picture of the pond

and landscape in severe weather with black clouds and

lightning bolts. It is signed Felicity Fox. Fox raises an

eyebrow.

15.

Still painting thunderstorms, I see.

Fox sees a small, Samsonite suitcase on the ground next to a

pair of yellow sneakers. He frowns.

Whose suitcase is that?

A boy's voice shouts from the high tree branch:

Hello, everyone! Good afternoon!

Fox, Mrs. Fox, and Ash look up, surprised. A second Fox cub

stands poised on the edge of the limb. He is taller, leaner,

sleeker, and it is immediately apparent even by his posture

infinitely more graceful than Ash. He is Kristofferson. He

wears a professional Speedo with a patch on it that says Swim

Team. Fox brightens.

Kristofferson! Welcome to our little

tree! I see you brought your swimming

trunks!

Kristofferson steps off the branch and performs a reserved

but perfect jack-knife. He enters the water splashlessly. Fox

leaps to his feet, applauding with his paws above his head,

whistling and hollering:

Look at that! This kid's a natural! I'm

speechless, Kristofferson!

Kristofferson smiles modestly and shrugs. Ash stares at him

stonily. Fox turns to Mrs. Fox.

Plus, he knows karate.

INT. LIVING ROOM. EVENING

Fox sits in his armchair reading the Gazette. Ash sits on a

braided rug on the floor beside him reading a comic book

called The Adventures of White Cape. On the cover, there is a

picture of a ferret leaping off a motorcycle. Mrs. Fox is in

the kitchen in the background flattening a hunk of dough with

a rolling pin. Kristofferson is in the next room practicing

tae-kwon-do. He wears khaki shorts, yellow sneakers, and a

blue, short-sleeved, button-down shirt.

16.

Do you think I'm an athlete?

(without looking up)

What are you talking about?

Well, you know, I think I'm an athlete,

and sometimes I feel like you guys don't

see me that way.

What's the sub-text here?

Ash thinks for a minute. He looks at Kristofferson in the

next room. Kristofferson is now sitting Indian-style on the

floor meditating. His paws are turned upward with his thumbs

touching his index fingers forming a ring. Ash says loudly to

Mrs. Fox in the kitchen:

How long is Kristofferson supposed to

stay with us?

MRS. FOX

Until your uncle gets better.

Right, but roughly how long do we plan to

give him on that? Double-pneumonia isn't

even really that big of a deal, is it?

In the background, Kristofferson stands up again and starts

practicing violent karate kicks. Mrs. Fox leans into the

doorway and whispers forcefully:

MRS. FOX

As a matter of fact, it is. He's lucky to

be alive. Now --

Right, but --

Kristofferson yells suddenly as he does a spinning double-

kick with a chop:

Ki-ya!

Everyone looks startled. Kristofferson resumes his tae-kwon-

do practice with an angry, wounded look on his face. Mrs. Fox

17.

MRS. FOX

Lower your voice, Ash.

EXT. TREE. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie sit in a porch swing on one of the middle

branches of Fox's tree. They drink cups of coffee. Crickets

chirp.

Kids are crazy, aren't they? You got to

try it, though. Raising a family.

Yeah. Sometimes I feel like maybe I

What do you think of this tree, by the

way? It's great, huh?

Yeah. No, I was just saying how some-

I have one last part of what I was about

to say.

OK. Go ahead.

I'm going broke. You want to help me

steal some chickens?

Fox's study, the next morning. A map of the valley with notes

and arrows written all over it is spread across a desk. The

door is closed with a towel jammed under it. A cricket match

plays loudly on the radio. Fox sits in his armchair. Kylie

sits in a creaky rocking chair.

I used to do this professionally, and I

was very successful at it. I had to get

out of it for personal reasons, but I've

decided to secretly quit my job slash got

fired to pursue it again. I'm bringing

you in as my secretary and personal

assistant.

18.

OK!

This is actually kind of a big deal, so

don't just say, "OK!"

OK. Well, thank you.

(clearing is throat)

don't make a lot of sounds --meaning

stop rocking.

Well, maybe we ought to turn off the

radio, then. That's noisier than --

I don't want people to eavesdrop on us,

Kylie. Let me just tell this.

Kylie stops rocking. Fox presses record on a tape recorder.

Master Plan. Phase one. Side A.

That night. Fox stands on a rock at the edge of the woods

looking through his binoculars. He lowers them and gives a

hand-signal. Kylie joins him, and they start out along the

moonlit ridge. Fox wears a dark car-coat and a black cap.

Kylie has on a navy ski-hat.

FOX (V.0.)

We'll start with Boggis' Chicken House

#1. His only security is a few old

hunting beagles and a low stone wall. Now

a word about beagles: never look a beagle

directly in the eye. And if --

KYLIE (V.0.)

Why not?

19.

Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. Kylie

Beagles aren't so tough.

Yeah? Well, first of all, one of these

beagles has chronic rabies, which he's on

medication for, and if you get bit by him

you have to get shots in your stomach for

six months. And, second -- listen, I'm

not going to justify this to you. Just

pay attention and stop interrupting me.

I'm taping this.

EXT. RAVINE. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie shimmy down a steep embankment and cross a

stream.

FOX (V.0.)

I picked some blueberries, butterflied

them with a scalpel, and laced each one

with ten milligrams of high-potency

sleeping powder.

Fox's paws meticulously sprinkle a powdered mickey into a

dissected blueberry and stitch it shut with red thread.

Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now

smoke pipes.

How do we make them eat it?

(smiling, with utter certainty)

Beagles love blueberries.

EXT. RIDGE. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie push through a bramble and climb to the top of

an elderberry bush. Fox looks through his binoculars.

20.

FOX (V.O.)

If we approach with the wind in our

faces, we'll smell the chicken livers on

Boggis' breath from at least fifty yards

away.

EXT. BARNYARD. DAY

Seventy-five chickens stand around quietly but anxiously,

darting wildly nervous looks at one another. They eat bits of

grain off the ground.

FOX (V.O.)

Remember: they aren't very smart, but

they're incredibly paranoid -- so always

kill a chicken in one bite.

Fox and Kylie in Fox's study earlier that afternoon. They now

drink whiskey sours. Fox repeats:

One bite, get it?

Fox waits for Kylie to respond. Kylie does not. Fox frowns.

Are you listening to me? I look into your

eyes and I can't tell whether you're

getting anything I'm saying.

Kylie stares at Fox vacantly. He shrugs.

(NOTE: an alternate set of eyeballs will be used for any

shots indicating Kylie's vacant look.)

EXT. MEADOW. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie move swiftly through the tall grass. Fox pauses

to sniff the air. He nods.

A few beagles, as we discussed, but we're

ready for that.

Fox and Kylie cross a dirt lane and come out of a shallow

ditch. Fox licks the pinky of his paw and holds it up in the

air.

You feel that? The wind's in our faces.

21.

Kylie touches his face with his paw. He nods. Fox and Kylie

run along the edge of the ditch. Kylie says casually:

Yeah, back in the old days, didn't they

used to do a thing where if somebody saw

a wolf, and --

What wolf?

Fox stops in his tracks. His eyes dart about. Kylie looks at

him curiously.

Oh, nothing? Never mind.

Fox and Kylie veer off into shorter grasses. Fox points

ahead, regaining his composure:

Here comes the low stone wall. Not a

problem.

Fox and Kylie climb over a low stone wall and find themselves

at the base of a chain-link fence eleven feet high.

This is a chain-link fence, I guess. Did

I not remember this? Maybe it's new.

Let's pause.

What the cuss? Where'd this giant fence

come from? We had a master plan!

Kylie motions to a yellow, plywood lightning bolt posted to

the fence.

What's this lightning bolt stand for?

Give me a second! I said, "Let's pause"!

Pause. Fox pulls himself together. He turns to look at the

plywood lightning bolt.

That, I guess, hypothetically, could mean

maybe this fence might be electric.

22.

Well, I just hope it doesn't mean

thunder. I have a phobia of that.

Fox and Kylie climb a tree and crouch at the end of one of

its branches. Fox produces a zip-loc bag filled with

blueberries with white thread stitched into them.

Watch this.

Fox puts a blueberry into the end of a straw and shoots it

out into the barnyard.

The blueberry landing on the ground in front of Chicken House

#1. A beagle approaches it and sniffs at it. He eats it. He

looks very pleased. He falls over, out cold.

Fox with an ecstatic expression on his face. He rapidly

shoots more and more blueberries across the barnyard. Beagles

eat blueberries and fall over, one after another. Fox and

Kylie drop down into the barnyard and head for Chicken House

#1. Fox whispers excitedly as they run:

Beagles love blueberries! Didn't I tell

you? The master plan's working again!

Kylie raises his fist enthusiastically and trips over an

unconscious beagle. He picks himself up quickly, and they

weave among the rest of the beagles. They reach the entrance

to the chicken house, open the door, and duck inside.

Pause. There is an eruption of crazed squawking, screaming,

and fighting from inside. The chicken house rumbles. Lights

jolt on across the compound. An alarm goes off. Voices yell.

The chicken house door swings open again, and Fox and Kylie

emerge among a cloud of feathers. Fox carries two dead

chickens, and Kylie has one live one. Fox yells:

I said one bite, cuss it!

I'm trying! I have a different kind of

teeth from you! I'm an opossum!

23.

Kylie tries to bite the chicken on the neck. The chicken is

unharmed. Kylie shrugs. Fox kills the chicken with one quick

flick of the jaws. Kylie looks horrified.

That's so grisly! There's blood and

everything!

We're killing chickens! There's going to

be blood in this story! Follow me!

Fox and Kylie dash to the electric fence. They stop in front

of it. Kylie looks to Fox.

What's the master escape plan?

Fox hesitates, confused. A gunshot fires from among the

chicken houses. Fox shouts to Kylie:

Follow me again!

Fox and Kylie run back across the barnyard, past the beagles

as they begin to wake up and stagger around. Farmhands

appear, loading shotguns and running into the confusion. Fox

and Kylie race by, unnoticed, among them. They dart into the

house through a flap in the back door. The lights are out in

the kitchen. They take a moment, breathing hard in the

darkness. Kylie shakes his head in disbelief.

Wow. That was amazing. How did we do

that? We ran the other way or something.

Yeah.

What happens now?

I have no idea.

Fox opens the door-flap a crack. He looks out and sees Boggis

opening the front gate to let out his beagles and farmhands,

barking and shooting, as they search for the intruders. Fox

shouts to Kylie:

24.

Holy cuss! They opened the gate! Follow

me again!

Lightning quick, Fox and Kylie burst out through the door-

flap, race across the barnyard, and dart through the open

gate. Up the road, Boggis screams furiously as he runs with

his pack of beagles and farmhands. Fox and Kylie fly into the

bushes. As they race through the underbrush Fox says

Let's hit the five and dime on the way

home! We need to make some fake price

tags and wrap these chickens in wax-paper

so it looks like we got them at the

butcher shop!

Fox and Kylie howl ecstatically.

A fox's paw lifts a silver dome off a perfectly roasted

chicken with an apple in its mouth.

Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at a candle-lit table eating chicken and

drinking wine. Ash, Kristofferson, and Kylie sit at a

slightly miniature table eating chicken and drinking milk.

Fox laughs hysterically as he tells his wife a story. Wine

comes out of his nose.

Fox and Kylie dash out the door of Boggis' Chicken House #7

carrying three more dead chickens. Lights jolt on. Farmhands

run out firing shotguns. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole

cut into the electric fence.

Fox and Kylie dash out the window of Bunce's Poultry Barn C

carrying two dead ducks and a goose. Alarms ring. Farmhands

run out firing pistols. Fox and Kylie escape through a hole

knocked into a brick wall.

Fox and Kylie dash out the gates of Bean's Apple Orchard XII

carrying two dead turkeys and a basket of apples. Automatic

doors close. Farmhands run out firing rifles. Fox and Kylie

escape through a hole chopped into a burning barricade.

Fox and Kylie run full-speed through a clover field in the

dark. The camera zooms in slowly on their faces as they ford

a stream, leap a fallen hawthorn, and cross into the willow

glade. They look exhilarated.

25.

INT. KITCHEN. EVENING

Mrs. Fox studies a crayon price-tag labelled $4 attached to a

wax-paper-wrapped parcel. She opens the parcel and holds up a

dead chicken by the leg. There is a small metal clip around

its ankle. She examines it. She frowns.

Fox comes in, grabs an apple out of a bowl, and starts back

out of the room.

MRS. FOX

Where'd you get this chicken?

I picked it up at the Five-and-Dime last

night on my way back from --

MRS. FOX

It's got a Boggis Farms tag around its

ankle.

Huh. Must've escaped from there before I

bought it.

INT. DINING ROOM. EVENING

Ash, Kristofferson, and Kylie sit at the children's table

eating dinner. Next to Ash, there is a small, slightly beaten-

up statue of a fox with his front legs raised in the air

holding a medal above his head. Kylie points at it.

What's that?

This? Nothing. Just some old trophy I won

for being an athlete.

Fox and Mrs. Fox sit at the adults' table. Fox guzzles down a

last sip of wine and says with his mouth full of food:

I'm supposed to cover this book party at

some animal's nest in a tobacco field

down the hill, so me and Kylie are going

to hop over there and give it a whirl.

Don't wait up.

Fox pulls his napkin out of his collar, drops it on the

table, and stands up. Mrs. Fox asks cooly:

26.

MRS. FOX

What's the book?

Some memoir. I'll get him to sign you a

copy.

Fox kisses Mrs. Fox on the cheek. She looks at him

suspiciously.

Dinner was --

-- pitch-perfect.

EXT. WOODS. NIGHT

prowling outfits.

I spotted a couple of broken burglar bars

underneath the back door to Bean's secret

cider cellar.

We're breaking into Bean's house?

Cellar.

Where he lives?

Where he keeps the cider.

Below where he lives.

Ash, dressed in his own prowling outfit, is walking with Fox

and Kylie. Fox stops short:

Where'd you come from? Go back to the

tree and do your homework!

I want to help you steal some cider.

27.

We're going to a book party! And keep

your mouth shut about any cider, because

no one ever said that! Get out of here!

But Dad --

But nothing! You're going to get me in a

lot of trouble!

The three animals stand in silence for a minute. Fox points

to his tree. Ash turns and starts back home. Fox shakes his

head.

Where the cuss does that kid get off? Can

you believe that? How'd he get tipped

off? You think he's going to tell on us?

Fox turns to Kylie. Kylie looks back at him vacantly.

Before we go any further, from now on can

you give me some kind of signal once in a

while just so I know any of this is

getting through to you?

Pause. Kylie makes a slight motion with his paw. Fox

hesitates.

Was that it? OK.

EXT. BARNYARD. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie dart across the yard and around the back of

Bean's farmhouse. Kylie whispers as they run:

One time this wolf --

What's with all the wolf talk? Can we

give it a rest, for once?

Fox climbs onto a garbage pail and pulls open a window

shutter. He and Kylie shimmy in-between two bent burglar

bars.

28.

INT. BEAN'S SECRET CIDER CELLAR. NIGHT

A vast, damp, gloomy cellar with hundreds of glass jars

stacked from floor to ceiling. Each jar is marked Cider. Fox

and Kylie come inside and quietly drop to the brick floor.

Look at all this apple juice.

Apple juice? Apple juice? We didn't come

here for apple juice. This is some of the

strongest, finest alcoholic cider money

can buy -- or that can even be stolen. It

burns in your throat, boils in your

stomach, and tastes almost exactly like

pure, melted gold.

Let's crack open one these 'shine jars

and do a shooter.

A match strikes in the darkness. Fox and Kylie look around

the room frantically. On the highest shelf, peering out from

behind a huge jar, they see an enormous rat in a striped

shirt with a lit match in his claw. He puts the flame in his

mouth to snuff it out and holds the matchstick in his teeth.

He is longer than a fox and wiry, but with a small pot-belly.

He wears a black beret and moves like a beatnik.

He takes a draw from a small rubber tube inserted in the neck

of his cider jar. He says with a slightly sinister New

Y'all are trespassin', now. Illegally.

'Round these parts, we don't take kindly

to cider poachers.

Fox and Rat stare at each other. Fox says, finally:

You've aged badly, Rat.

You're gettin' a little long in the

tooth, yourself, partner.

Rat spins around and hurls himself scuttling over a shelf,

down the wall, and through the air onto the brick floor at

Fox's feet. He flicks open a switchblade and brandishes it.

He hisses.

29.

Kylie shrieks and darts into a hole where a brick is missing

in the wall. Fox takes an old-fashioned boxing stance.

How's your old lady doin'?

Kylie peers out from his hole in the wall nervously. Fox and

Rat circle each other slowly.

Do you refer to my wife?

She was the town tart, in her day. Wild

and foot-loose and pretty as a mink

stole. She was a creme brulee -- until

you made an honest woman out of her, Mr.

Fox.

Kylie says, intrigued, from his hole:

Is that true?

Of course, not. I mean, certainly, she

lived. We all did. It was a different

time. Let's not use a double-standard.

She marched against the --

But town tart?

Shut up.

Rat lunges at Fox with his switchblade. Fox dodges nimbly. He

cocks an eyebrow and smiles:

That was close, Rat. Be careful.

Oh, I'm as careful as a --

A door at the top of the stairs opens suddenly with a loud

creak. Rat and Fox look terrified. They both dart away and

hide behind cider jars.

A heavy-set, middle-aged housekeeper carrying a rolling pin

comes down the stairs and walks straight over to the shelf

where Fox is hiding.

30.

How many jars should I bring up, ma'am?

A strong, almost masculine woman's voice answers from

I don't know. Two, I guess.

The housekeeper grabs the two jars directly next to the one

Fox is hiding behind and tucks them under her arm. Fox tenses

his body. He shivers slightly. A graze of the red fur of his

arm sticks out barely from behind his jar. The housekeeper

hesitates.

He drank three yesterday, ma'am.

All right, take three.

The housekeeper grabs Fox's jar. Fox closes his eyes.

No, don't.

The housekeeper stops with her hand on the neck of Fox's jar.

Three's too many. It's unhealthy. He's

anorexic. Bring two.

The housekeeper lets go of Fox's jar. Fox relaxes slightly.

The housekeeper grabs Fox's jar again. Fox tenses up.

But maybe, just in case --

Two's plenty.

The housekeeper lets go of Fox's jar and walks away. She goes

back up the stairs and closes the door. Kylie says in the

Oh, my cuss. That was like a scene out of

The door opens again. An exceptionally tall, powerfully built

woman in a black dress and Wellingtons, with grey hair pulled-

back in a bun, bright green eyes, and a meat cleaver tucked

under her apron strings comes swiftly down the stairs. She

31.

eyeballs the corners of the room. She is Mrs. Bean. She says

thickly (in her masculine voice):

MRS. BEAN

To whom it may concern: if I catch a rat

in a black beret drinking Mr. Bean's

secret cider without his express

permission, I intend to chop said rat's

head off, brine it, pickle it, and bake

it in a vermin casserole. I hope this

clarifies my position on the matter.

Sincerely, Evelyn Bean.

Mrs. Bean turns and goes back up the stairs. She closes the

door. Pause. Rat's voice says from the shadows:

Dear Mrs. Bean, your language, while

somewhat purple, is nevertheless

impossible to misinterpret. However --

comma -- given the proximity of said rat

at the moment of your --

The door at the top the stairs opens again. Silence.

Fox and Kylie running away from Bean's farmhouse with two

jars of cider. They both look badly shaken. A gunshot rings

out taking us to:

EXT. BEAN FARMS. NIGHT

Bean is standing darkly in his front doorway. Smoke drifts

from the end of his Luger, pointed at the ceiling. A broken

light bulb hangs from a wire above his head. Boggis and Bunce

sit together on the porch in rocking chairs, startled,

staring at Bean.

I'm going to give a speech, and at the

end of it -- I'm going to throw a twist

into this plot.

Bean lights a cigarette and begins to walk slowly around the

porch.

First truth: this is the most ambitious

fox we've ever encountered, bar none.

Bean spins around and shoots out a second light bulb. Boggis

and Bunce look uneasy. Bean continues:

32.

Second truth: the meaning of ambition is

defined in the dictionary.

Bean jumps and rolls and shoots out a third light bulb.

Third truth: the weakness of the

ambitious man is his Achilles heel --

Bean quickly shoots out three more light bulbs behind his

back, over his shoulder, and between his legs. The porch goes

dark. He flicks on a flashlight and points it in his two

colleague's faces. They look scared. Bean says urgently:

-- but I've already figured out where

this fox lives, and tomorrow night we're

going to camp in the bushes, wait for him

to come out of the hole in his tree, and

shoot the cuss to smithereens. How's that

grab you, fellas?

Boggis and Bunce hesitate. They nod and murmur their

approval.

INT. FOX'S TREE. NIGHT

Fox and Kylie come quietly into the half-lit kitchen dressed

in their prowling outfits. They walk to the door.

MRS. FOX

Another book party?

Fox and Kylie turn around, startled. Mrs. Fox sits on a stool

in the darkened pantry.

Woah! I didn't see you. Sitting in the

dark over there. Yeah, no. Actually,

there's a fire. I just got the call. They

said maybe it's arson? I got to interview

the marshall and see what's --

MRS. FOX

Kylie, is he telling the truth?

I don't want to be put in the middle of

this.

33.

Thanks, Kylie.

MRS. FOX

If what I think is happening is

-- it better not be.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean waiting crouched in the bushes. Bean

licks his finger and holds it up to test the direction of the

wind. He nods, points to his nose, and gives a thumbs-up to

Boggis and Bunce.

EXT. FOX'S TREE. NIGHT

Fox pokes his head up out of his hole. He sniffs once. He

moves an inch forward and stops. He sniffs again. He waits a

moment and listens. He steps out of the hole and says

Nice job covering for me. Next time

A twig snaps. Fox freezes.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean frozen in the bushes.

The branches of the trees as the wind suddenly changes its

direction.

Fox on high alert. He rapidly sniffs the air three times in a

row. He turns to a confused Kylie and says, panicking:

All three!

Fox and Kylie spin around and dart back into the hole as

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean open fire wildly from the bushes. A

barrage of bullets and buckshot rips into the tree-bark.

Silence.

34.

Smoke from the three guns floats upward in the night air.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean approach the tree. Bean shines his

flashlight on Fox's hole.

In the circle of light on the ground lies the tattered, blood-

stained remains of Fox's tail. Bean picks it up and holds it

in the air in front of Boggis and Bunce.

We got the tail, but we missed the fox.

Pause. Bean takes out his walkie-talkie.

Petey? You and the boys sober up and get

out here on the A.S.A.P. Bring eleven

shovels, three pick-axes, 500 rounds of

ammunition, and a bottle of apple cider.

INT. FOX'S TREE. NIGHT

Mrs. Fox licks the stump of Fox's tail and mends it with

gauze and medical tape. She looks furious. Kylie and the Fox

cubs watch, concerned. Ash says uncertainly:

It'll grow back, won't it?

(shaking his head)

Tails don't grow back, except for

lizards.

Tails don't grow back. I'm going to be

tail-less for the rest of my life.

Well, anyway, it's not half as bad as

double-pneumonia, right?

(pointing to Kristofferson)

His dad's got one foot in the grave and

one foot on a banana peel. That's a lot

worse than --

Kristofferson hurls an acorn violently onto the floor. It

ricochets off a wall and into a teacup. Everyone falls

silent. Kristofferson turns away.

35.

Excuse me, everyone. I'm going to go

meditate for half an hour.

Kristofferson walks out of the room. Mrs. Fox looks at Ash

and says angrily:

MRS. FOX

You've got twenty-nine minutes to come up

with a proper apology.

Ash crosses his arms in front of his chest and stares

straight ahead into space grimly. Fox says suddenly:

What's with the crazy outfit? Why a cape

and the pants tucked into your socks?

Ash does not respond. Fox sighs. Mrs. Fox finishes bandaging

his tail. Fox goes over to the wall and stands with his back

to the room.

I got fired slash quit the Gazette and

started stealing chickens on the sly.

MRS. FOX

That tail was the first thing I ever

noticed about you. It was easily the most

attractive tail for at least 50 miles in

every direction. It was probably your

single best quality -- and now it's gone

forever.

Fox lying in bed staring at the ceiling in the dark next to

Mrs. Fox.

Why the cuss didn't I listen my lawyer?

At this point we'll be lucky if we can

flip this tree for half of what we've

already sunk into it.

Fox flips over onto his stomach.

I won't be able to sleep on my back for

six weeks -- and on my stomach I feel

congested. Why the cuss didn't I listen

to my lawyer?

36.

MRS. FOX

Because you don't listen to anybody.

(sitting up suddenly)

What was that?

MRS. FOX

What? I said --

bed. He hollers:

out!

There is a scrunch and then a loud thump from above. Mrs. Fox

looks at Fox intensely:

MRS. FOX

They'll kill the children!

Over my dead body, they will.

MRS. FOX

That's what I'm saying! You'd be dead,

too, in that scenario!

Well, I'm arguing against that!

MRS. FOX

What are you talking about?

Why are you yelling at me?

Stop! Stop! Stop!

Fox and Mrs. Fox turn quickly to Kylie standing in the

doorway with a red blanket wrapped around his shoulders. Ash

37.

and Kristofferson stand behind him. They look terrified.

Kylie shouts in a pained voice:

You say one thing, she says another, and

it all changes back again!

The point of a shovel pierces the ceiling. Everyone looks up

and stares in shock. Fox suddenly leaps across the room with

a wild energy, scrambles halfway up a wall, and throws over

two chairs.

I've got it! There's not a moment to

lose! Why didn't I think of this before?

MRS. FOX

Think of what?

Think of the one thing a fox does quicker

than a man, quicker than any other animal

in the world!

(at the top of his lungs)

DIG!!!

Everyone digging furiously. Dirt flies everywhere. The shot

booms down into the ground, among the roots of the tree,

through buried pebbles, layers of soil, and subterranean

mineral deposits.

The shot stops at the bottom of a dark hole deep, deep

underground. Mrs. Fox lies on the floor, breathing heavily,

with a lit lantern at her side. The cubs are sprawled out

around her. Kylie leans in the corner with his shirt off tied

around his waist. Fox stands up and clears his throat.

Everyone looks at him.

I think it's time for me to give us a pep

talk and explain some things.

(commencing a speech)

A very long time ago --

MRS. FOX

May I have a word with you privately?

38.

Well, we're in a hole. Where --

MRS. FOX

Just on the other side of this mineral

deposit. Follow me.

Fox reluctantly follows Mrs. Fox through a crack in the

bedrock and into a small air-pocket with glittering quartz

walls. She wheels on Fox:

MRS. FOX

I'm going to lose my temper now.

When?

MRS. FOX

Right now.

Well, when --

Mrs. Fox scratches Fox across the face, slicing a quick

sliver into his fur. Fox cringes away with his paws up

protectively. He lowers his paws. His eyes fill with tears.

(NOTE: the scar in Fox's fur never grows back.)

Mrs. Fox takes a deep breath. She says:

MRS. FOX

Twelve fox-years ago, you made a promise

to me while we were caged inside that fox-

trap that, if we survived, you would

never steal another chicken, goose,

turkey, duck, or squab, whatever they

are. I believed you. Why did you lie to

me?

Because I'm a wild animal.

MRS. FOX

You're also a husband and a father.

39.

I'm trying to tell you the truth about

myself.

MRS. FOX

I don't care about the truth about

yourself.

Fox looks down at the ground. He nods and tries to contain

his emotions. Mrs. Fox watches him coldly.

MRS. FOX

This story is too predictable.

Predictable? Really? What happens in the

end?

MRS. FOX

In the end, we all die -- unless you

change.

Mrs. Fox walks out of the air-pocket. Fox stands alone in

silence.

EXT. FOX'S TREE. DAY

The next morning. There is a large hole in the side of the

hill, under Fox's tree. The ceiling to the living room has

been completely removed. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean stand half-

underground with their heads sticking out of the hole,

breathing hard, with dirty shovels over their shoulders.

Bunce stands on Fox's tiny club chair.

These foxes dig like a bunch of

hyperactive gophers.

Franklin? You got another twist for this

plot?

Say that again?

I say you got another --

Bean whips out his walkie-talkie and twirls it like a six-

shooter. He presses a button on it and says:

40.

Petey? Get me the current contact info

for Earl Malloy on the A.S.A.P.

Who's Earl Malloy?

What? You mean over at Malloy

Consolidated? Oh, he does rentals.

What does he rent?

Three yellow and black, murderous, brutal bulldozer digging-

tractors with Malloy Consolidated painted on the sides of

them. They make a terrible, high-pitched growling noise and

spit black grease and smoke.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean stand among the tractors nodding

giddily to each other. They scramble into the drivers' seats

and begin ripping into the hillside. Bunce sits on a

dictionary to see over the dashboard.

Fox, Mrs. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson digging

frantically.

The tractors grabbing huge chunks of earth and tossing them

into the meadow. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean, drunk with digging,

laugh manically as the controls of their tractors.

Let's kick some fox cuss!

I'm cussing loving this!

Who's hyper-cussing-active now?

Bean throws his tractor into top gear. The teeth of the giant

shovels clank against each other, ripping through the tree's

roots.

41.

A temperature gauge with its needle pushing the limits of the

red.

A grizzled, white-haired man in a greasy yellow and black

jumpsuit and coke-bottle protective eyeglasses. A patch on

his pocket says E. Malloy. He watches the farmers digging

crazily with the tractors. Sparks from the mayhem reflect

dancing on his lenses.

These machines weren't made to be handled

like this.

The hill with half its earth dug out from under the tree. The

tree still stands precariously above the wild tractors.

The hill now razed with the fallen, old beech tree laying on

its side as the tractors dig deeper.

The tractors almost completely below ground in a deep crater.

A crowd of neighbors and local press from the town has

gathered and watches as the tractors stop digging and rumble

up out of the crater. The motors go quiet. Boggis, Bunce, and

Bean climb down from their tractors. They look angry and

tired. They stand among the workers and onlookers.

A television reporter with an Action 13 camera crew confronts

Farmer, correct me if I'm misreading the

data, you've successfully destroyed the

scenery, but the alleged fox remains at

large. What will you three prominent

farmers do now?

Well, Dan, I can tell you what we're not

going to do. We're not going to let him

go.

42.

Are you concerned about the possibility

I have no further dialogue in this scene.

Bean turns away from the reporter and pulls Boggis and Bunce

aside. He addresses them with calm intensity:

I'm not going home until we smoke this

son-of-a-cuss out his hole, string him up

on a clothesline, and fly him like a

kite. Boggis, how many men have you got

working on your farm?

Thirty-five.

Bunce?

Thirty-six.

quitters -- or are you staying with?

That night. A helicopter with a Bean, inc. decal on the side

of it circles the crater scanning the dark terrain with a

searchlight. There are tents, trucks, and 108 men gathered

around the perimeter. They sit on bricks and logs and are

armed with bats, pistols, rifles, shotguns, bows and arrows,

and hatchets.

INT. HOLE. NIGHT

Fox, his family, and Kylie lie exhausted on the floor of

their deep hole. The walls are covered with knotted roots and

vines. Fox says to Kylie:

One of those slovenly farmers is probably

wearing my tail as a necktie by now.

43.

You're paranoid, Foxy.

Mrs. Bean sitting in her kitchen watching television next to

an extremely skinny, freckled twelve year-old boy. The boy

points at the screen and laughs to himself:

Look at Dad's tie.

The television set. Bean is on-screen with the Action 13

reporter. He wears a fox-fur necktie.

EXT. CAMP. NIGHT

There is a full moon. Lanterns glow in the farmers' tents. A

group of farmhands sit around a campfire next to the crater.

One of them cooks a chicken on a spit. Another sits on a log

playing a banjo. He is Petey. He sings:

'Bout a handsome little fox

Let me sing you folks a yarn.

Hey, diddle-dee, doddle-do, doodle-dum!

'Twas a splendid little feller

Full of wit 'n' grace 'n' charm.

Say, zippy-zee, yappy-yo, google-gum!

The shot moves past the leathery faces of the other farmhands

as they listen: amused, moved, hungry, tired, charmed,

annoyed, whistling, playing a jew's harp, trying to sing

along but not really knowing the words, etc.

Like any little critter needin'

Vittels for his littl'uns,

Well, he stole, and he cheated,

And he lied to survive.

Doodle-dum, diddle-die, doddle-diddle-

doodle-dee!

Zippy-zo, zippy-zay, zippy-zappy-

zoopy-zee!

(this verse is spoken:)

Let me take a little tick now

To color in the scene:

'Cross the valley lived three yokels

Name of Boggis, Bunce, and Bean.

44.

(back to singing:)

Now these three crazy jackies

had our hero on the run.

Shot the tail off the cuss

With a fox-shootin' gun.

But that stylish little fox

Was as clever as a whip.

Dug as quick as a gopher

Who was a hyper-ack-a-tive.

Now those three farmers sit

'Twhere there's a hole 'twas once a hill.

Hey, diddle-dee, doddle-do, doodle-dum!

And as far as I can reckon

They're a-settin' up there still.

Way, zippy-zee, yappy-yo, google --

What are you singing, Petey?

Petey stops short. Everyone turns quickly and sees Bean

standing over them in the darkness with his Luger in one hand

and a cigarette in the other. Petey looks nervous.

I don't know. I was just kind of making

it up as I was going along...

Petey trails off. Bean shakes his head. He looks highly

irritated.

That's just weak song-writing! You wrote

a bad song, Petey!

Bean throws his cigarette into the campfire. He storms away.

Petey turns to the other farmhands. Everyone looks

uncomfortable.

3 DAYS LATER (18 Fox-Days)

Morning in the farmers' camp. The cook flips an egg on a

skillet. He puts it on a plate with bacon and hands it to

Petey. Petey asks him:

45.

How long can a fox go without food or

water?

The exhausted foxes and Kylie underground. Kylie says

Well, I can only answer as an opossum,

but I don't think I can last more than

another couple of hours before I get

completely dehydrated and starve to

death.

What's that?

Ash points. Everyone looks. A tiny hole appears in the wall

at the end of the tunnel. Dirt crumbles out of it -- and a

bit of metal catches a glint. Fox and his family watch,

frozen. A breath of air blows into the tunnel.

The flame on Mrs. Fox's lantern flickers once and goes out.

Dad?

Not a sound!

Silence. There is a sudden, loud scrabbling noise. A match

strikes. Fox touches it to Mrs. Fox's lantern-wick.

The tiny hole in the wall has become a large one. Badger

stands in front of Fox with his law partner Beaver, Beaver's

overgrown, hulking son, a medium-sized mole, and a grey field

mouse with a bandana tied in a "do-rag" style around his

head. Badger has a spoon in his hand. Fox and Badger erupt at

each other, screaming simultaneously:

You scared the cuss out of us!

I told you not to buy at nine and a

cussing half!

46.

You don't just bang into somebody's

cussing tunnel!

Are you cussing yelling at me!

You're cussing right I'm cussing yelling!

We're all cussing starving to death

because of you, you mangy, cussing,

little cuss!

Fox and Badger snarl and scratch at each other, circling

around the hole. They calm down slightly. Badger continues:

We've been digging in circles for three

days. Half the woods've been obliterated.

Nobody can get out. Right now my wife's

huddled at the bottom of the flint-mine

with Mrs. Mole, Mrs. Beaver, Rabbit's ex-

girlfriend, no food, no water, and twenty-

seven hungry, whining, starving, little

animal brats. This is a total cluster-

cuss for everybody!

Fox looks around the room at the entire gaunt, dirty,

emaciated assembly. Everyone stares at him angrily. He

swallows. The mole says softly.:

I just want to see a little --

-- sunshine.

But you're nocturnal, Phil. Your eyes

barely even open, on a good day.

I'm sick of your double-talk. We have

rights!

Beaver's son looms over Ash and Kristofferson in a muddy

alcove on the side of the tunnel. He pokes Ash in the chest

with the finger of his paw.

47.

We don't like you, and we hate your dad.

You're too snazzy. You dress like a girl.

You're creative. Now grab some of that

mud, chew it in your mouth, and swallow

it.

(scared and disgusted)

I'm not going to eat mud!

Cuss, yeah, you are.

Beaver's son grabs a handful of mud, smashes it into Ash's

mouth, and forces his jaws up and down in a chewing motion.

Ash coughs and splutters. Kristofferson frowns. He takes off

his shoes with his feet. He says with a quiet ferocity:

Don't do that.

Beaver's son looks to Kristofferson. He looks down at

Kristofferson's feet.

Why'd you take your shoes off?

So I don't break your nose when I kick

it.

Kristofferson kicks Beaver's son in the face, karate chops

his neck, elbow-jabs him twice in the gut, and flips the

enormous youth over his shoulder and into the mud. Beaver's

son gets up, crying, and walks out of the alcove.

Ash watches blankly with mud all over his mouth as

Kristofferson puts his shoes back on.

I can fight my own fights.

Badger and Fox stand facing each other at the end of the

tunnel. Badger says aggressively:

Those farmers aren't going to quit until

they've got you and every member of your

family nailed upside-down to a bloody

stick with your eyes gorged out.

48.

This is getting a little too personal.

Badger waits for Fox to continue. Fox stares into space.

Give me a minute.

Fox turns and walks away. He faces the wall of the tunnel. He

sits down on a rock. Everyone watches him uncertainly. They

look at each other. Badger starts to say something, but Kylie

cuts him off sharply:

Shh!

Badger falls silent. Fox sits with his chin on his paw, lost

in concentrated thought. He stands up. He nods repeatedly and

begins to pace. His eyes dart from one spot to another. His

paws move abruptly around in the air drawing lines and

shapes. He freezes and looks straight up at the ceiling of

the tunnel. He snaps the fingers of his paw and looks to the

others. He says with a cautious excitement:

I've got an idea.

What is it?

It could be a good one.

Lay it on us.

It might save our lives.

Say the idea!

Fox looks down at Ash, who stands beside him with mud still

on his mouth. He nods. He says suddenly:

All right! Let's try it!

49.

Fox runs over to Mrs. Fox:

Go to the flint-mine. Tell Mrs. Badger,

Rabbit's ex-girlfriend, et al. that help

is on the way.

MRS. FOX

Is help on the way?

Fox grips Mrs. Fox's paw. He looks into her eyes and says

I sure as cuss hope so.

Mrs. Fox detects a special, familiar, inspired light in her

husband's eyes at this moment. She nods. She hands Ash the

lantern. She straightens the neck-line of his cape, licks the

mud off Ash's snout, and scrambles away down Badger's tunnel.

Ash wants to cry but does not. Fox turns to the others.

Gentlemen, this time we must dig in a

very special direction.

Fox feels the walls with his paws. Everyone watches

attentively.

I got to kind of feel out the vibe.

Fox stops. He points slightly downwards and due south. He

says with quiet anticipation:

Begin.

Everyone starts digging, slowly but intently.

The diggers one hundred yards later. Fox suddenly whistles

and raises his fist.

The diggers stop digging. Fox feels the ceiling with his

paws. He knocks something hard. It sounds hollow. He looks at

the others with a funny expression and raises an eyebrow.

Fox carefully pushes up a floorboard. It creaks loudly. They

all duck down and wait. Nothing happens. Fox pushes up a

second floorboard. He cautiously pokes his head up through

50.

the gap. He lets out a shriek of excitement and whispers

excitedly down to the others:

I've done it! I've done it, first time!

Come up and see where you are, my

darlings!

Everyone scrambles up out of the tunnel.

INT. SHED. NIGHT

Everyone stands in the middle of Boggis' Chicken House #1.

The room is teeming with chickens, which stare at them

nervously. There are black chickens, white chickens, brown

chickens, and one that combines all three colors. Fox

I hit it slap in the middle! Do you get

how incredible this is?

The others nod. They look dazed and wild. Fox holds up his

hands and whispers:

Don't lose your heads, now. Let's do this

properly. First, everyone have a drink of

water.

Fox leads the others over to the chickens' drinking trough.

They all lap up the cool water. Fox dries his mouth.

Fox seizes a black chicken violently.

Ash and Kristofferson running down the tunnel carrying two

dead, black chickens. They turn three corners and arrive at

the mossy hollow. They look inside.

Fox and the other diggers tunnel under the silo in front of

Bunce Industries. Cows eat grass in the pasture above.

Fox and the other diggers comes out of a hole in the floor

and dance an ecstatic jig in a great storeroom lined to the

ceiling with plucked ducks and geese. Smoked hams and sides

of bacon dangle from the rafters.

51.

Fox and the other diggers tunnel under the windmill in front

of Bean, inc. Sheep eat clover in the field above.

Fox and the other diggers comes out of a hole in the floor

and dance an ecstatic jig in a corrugated plastic and metal

pen among dozens of gobbling turkeys.

Fox and the other diggers race dancing ecstatically back

through the complex network of tunnels carrying dead turkeys,

geese, bacon, flour, salt, sugar, jars of cider, and a

portable television set.

INT. FLINT-MINE. DAY

The flint-mine is a large but cozy space with stone walls, a

dirt floor, a small kitchen, and a fireplace. There are rows

of cots, sleeping bags, boxes, blankets, and suitcases for

all the refugee animals. All the animals have gathered

together and drink cider cocktails while small rabbits,

skunks, and field mice set the table. The room is festooned

with garlands. A well-dressed mole smoking a pipe plays the

piano. A bespectacled rabbit leans against it humming a tune.

Weasel stands in the corner talking with Beaver.

What am I going to do? I'm going to hold

him to the terms of the contract. It's

not my fault they uprooted it.

Kristofferson serves cranberry punch from a tureen in the

corner. Ash goes over to him and holds out a mug.

They say I owe you an apology for some of

the mean things I said about your

father's illness. His double-pneumonia or

whatever they're calling it now.

Kristofferson ladles Ash a cupful.

OK.

So there it is. I hope we can continue

our relationship as cousins or family

members or however you want to define

(suddenly more intense)

-- but do me a favor for yourself. The

next time you have a problem with

something I've said, come to me as a fox

52.

and let's deal with it right then and not

let it blow up into a whole, huge thing

involving parents and so on. Agreed?

Ash drinks his punch in one long sip and holds out the empty

mug for a refill. Kristofferson nods slowly. He points at Ash

with his ladle.

I'm going to teach you karate.

Badger sits next to the fireplace with Fox and Kylie.

I can imagine how painful, even just

emotionally, that must be for you.

Well, you know, it's not the end of the

world.

Oh, but, Foxy, how humiliating! Having

your whole tail blown clean off by a --

Can we drop it?

Kristofferson starts to refill Ash's mug again. Ash suddenly

puts his paw over the brim. Kristofferson hesitates. Ash

raises an eyebrow and says mysterriously:

Ever tasted one of Mrs. Bean's famous

nutmeg-ginger-apple snaps?

EXT. CAMP. DAY

A large fire truck drives up to the destroyed hill with

firemen hanging off the back and sides. It parks among the

tractors and tents. The chief, in a white helmet, goes over

to Boggis, Bunce, and Bean waiting at the mouth of the pit. A

patch on his sleeve says O.W.F.R.P.F. Farmhands and firemen

circle around.

Who's got me a donation for the old

Wounded Fireman's Retirement Pension

Fund?

Bean pulls a yellow check out of his inside pocket.

53.

Right here.

(pointing behind him)

Let me show you this hole.

INT. FLINT-MINE. DAY

Candles glow all around. Everyone is seated at the long

dining room table, and a magnificent feast with every variety

of fruit, meat, vegetable, and roasted bird has been laid out

in front of them. They tear into their meals, eating and

drinking ferociously. Crumbs, juices, blood, and bones fly

into the air. Jaws snap and chew. There is no conversation.

Badger suddenly stands and rings a knife against his cider

glass. Everyone looks up, taking a breather from the frenzy

of eating. Badger clears his throat.

Well, it took a near-catastrophe for all

of you to finally take me up on my offer

to have you over to the flint-mine for

dinner, but I guess we have --

I'm sorry. Maybe my invitation got lost

in the mail. Does anybody know what this

badger's talking about?

Everyone laughs. Fox sits at the opposite end of the table

with a crooked smile on his face.

But Clive's right --

-- in all seriousness --

(aside, to Badger)

-- excuse me, B.

Fox raises his cider glass. Badger reluctantly sits back

down.

I guess we do have those three ugly,

cusshole farmers to thank for one thing:

reminding us to be thankful and aware of

each other. I'm going to say it again.

Aware.

Badger whispers to his wife:

54.

Foxy cuss-blocked my toast, man.

The hole where Fox's tree once stood. The dead tree lies on

its side. A fireman slides a thick hose deep into the tunnel.

He looks behind him and nods.

Ready.

The shot moves backwards along the hose, past seven more

firemen signalling to each other with: a thumbs-up, a snap, a

fist in the air, a swirl of the fingers, a peace symbol, an A-

OK, and a hook-'em Horns. The shot continues past Boggis,

Bunce, and Bean helping to hold the hose in position. Boggis

growls. Bunce hisses. Bean snarls. The shot arrives at a pump

on the side of the fire truck. The chief points:

Let her rip.

A fireman cranks a huge wrench on a steel nut. A pressure

gauge shoots to maximum. The fire truck and hose begin to

vibrate loudly.

Ash and Kristofferson crouched under a drain-cover pushed

just-open next to a refrigerator. They peer out across a

bright, clean, white kitchen at a plate of perfect, golden

cookies on a counter-top next to an open window with a step-

ladder directly in front of it. They look at each other. They

look around the quiet, empty room. Ash shrugs.

Ash and Kristofferson dart out, leaving the drain-cover

propped-up. They race over the linoleum. They climb the step-

ladder and stop at the plate. Ash swoons and says

They're still warm.

Ash and Kristofferson gather more cookies than they can

possibly carry, eating as they collect them. Crumbs go

everywhere.

On the other side of the room, the drain-cover falls shut

with a loud clank. Ash and Kristofferson look up, wildly

startled. All at once they hear in a simultaneous cacophony:

the back door bursting open, a boy and two beagles shouting

and barking, the pantry door slamming, Mrs. Bean and her

55.

middle-aged housekeeper clanging pots and pans and arguing, a

timer on the counter-top ringing, and a raven fluttering to

the windowsill and cawing.

Ash and Kristofferson panic silently. They drop the cookies

and fly down the step-ladder.

Fox in mid-toast:

I've stepped on some toes and alienated a

few of you over the past few days -- but

is it wrong for me to suggest we might've

done worse than having an incredible

banquet in a beautiful flint-mine

surrounded by our favorite animals? Look

at each other. Here we are. Wow. Now I've

already had too much to drink, and I'm

feeling sentimental, but I'm going to say

something, anyway, which nobody wants to

admit, but I think is probably true: we

beat 'em. We beat those farmers, and now

we're triumphantly eating their roasted

chicken, their sizzling duck, their

succulent turkey, their foie gras de --

Where'd the boys go? Ash? Kristofferson?

(to Mrs. Fox)

What am I hearing again, baby? What's

happening? Am I still paranoid?

There is a low, distant rumbling which rapidly builds to a

deafening roar. Everyone waits, frozen. A single drop of

water drips from the ceiling into Badger's water glass. Fox

turns to Badger and says:

Let's pause again.

A wild deluge smashes into the room flooding the flint-mine

and tunnels with a blasting current that sweeps everyone and

everything away chaotically.

The entire party of well-dressed animals and their plates,

furniture, chickens, etc. shooting down the tunnel with the

rushing waters. Fox, helpless, holding his breath, looks to

the others underwater: Badger shakes his head in disgust;

Rabbit makes a fierce grimace; Mole bares his teeth

ferociously; Beaver rants angrily with bubbles coming out off

his mouth; and Kylie stares ahead vacantly, holding his nose.

56.

Fox turns sadly to Mrs. Fox. She looks terrified.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT

The flood blasts out of a wide pipe rocketing the animals

into a murky, brick cavern with drainpipes on all sides and

three inches of black water on its floor. Fox picks himself

up, dazed and scared, and looks around at his soaked friends

and their families.

What the cuss just happened? Something

with water. That was dangerous. Is anyone

hurt?

We're all hurt! My entire flint-mine just

got demolished!

Let's do a head-count! Everybody pick a

buddy!

Each animal turns to his neighbor and establishes their buddy

relationship. Fox looks wildly agitated as his eyes dart

about, searching. He shouts:

Where'd the boys go? Ash? Kristofferson?

Ash's voice cracks on the other side of the cavern:

I'm here.

Everyone turns to see Ash standing at the mouth of a smaller

pipe. He looks devastated and terrified. Fox points to him.

Ash! Who's your buddy?

Kristofferson, but I lost him.

You lost him? Where were you?

We went for cookies.

Everyone turns to Fox. Fox yells desperately:

57.

Kristofferson!

Fox sprints around the cavern, splashing, digging, and

ducking in and out of tunnels as the others join his frantic

search. His voice sounds pained as he shouts:

Kristofferson! Kristofferson!

Kristofferson!

The three farmers standing next to the fire truck. Bean holds

a soaked, half-conscious Kristofferson up in the air by the

tail. Kristofferson is quietly crying.

Wrap this wet, little mutt in a newspaper

and put him in a box with some holes

punched in the top.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT

Everyone has gathered together. They are all in a state of

shock. Fox turns to Mrs. Fox beside him.

Your brother's going to kill me, if he

survives his double-pneumonia.

Beaver runs into the brick cavern out of a drainpipe,

There's only one way out of this sewer,

but the manhole cover's closed, and

there's a station-wagon parked on it --

which means we're permanently stuck down

here.

You still think we beat 'em, Foxy?

Everyone turns to Fox and stares at him coldly. Fox sits down

on the floor, in the water. He says quietly:

Somebody take over. I'm not in charge

anymore.

58.

Everyone looks around at each other. They don't know what to

do. Mrs. Fox sits down in the water next to Fox.

You told me to change, but I can't --

-- except, possibly, on some level, I

think I just did.

MRS. FOX

Well, then maybe we're not all going to

die.

Fox looks to Mrs. Fox. He stands up suddenly. He takes Mrs.

Fox's hand.

Excuse us, everyone.

Fox leads Mrs. Fox over to a ledge near a cement waterfall on

the far side of the brick cavern. He puts his arm around her

waist.

Badger's right. These farmers aren't

going to quit until they catch me. I

shouldn't have lied to your face. I

shouldn't have resigned slash gotten

fired from the Gazette. I shouldn't have

pushed these farmers so far and tried to

embarrass them and cuss with their heads.

I enjoyed it, but I shouldn't have done

it -- and now there's only one way out.

Maybe if I hand myself over and let them

kill me, stuff me, and hang me over their

MRS. FOX

You'll do no such thing.

Darling, maybe they'll let everyone else

live.

Mrs. Fox stares at Fox. She says desolately:

MRS. FOX

Why'd you have to get us into this, Foxy?

59.

I don't know, but I have a possible

theory. I think I have this thing where I

need everybody to think I'm the greatest

-- the quote-unquote fantastic Mr. Fox --

and if they aren't completely knocked-

out, dazzled, and kind of intimidated by

me, then I don't feel good about myself.

Mrs. Fox shakes her head and turns away. Fox continues:

Foxes traditionally like to court danger,

hunt prey, and outsmart predators -- and

that's what I'm actually good at! I

think, at the end of the day, I'm just --

MRS. FOX

We're wild animals.

Fox smiles sadly and nods. He shrugs.

I guess we always were. I promise you: if

I had all this to do over again, I'd have

never let you down. It was always more

fun when we did it together, anyway.

Mrs. Fox has tears all over her face. Fox kisses her. He

whispers in her ear:

I love you, Felicity.

MRS. FOX

I love you, too, but I shouldn't have

married you.

Mrs. Fox turns and walks away. Fox stares after her. He goes

over to Ash.

Did I ever tell you about the time I

learned we were going to have a cub?

In the fox-trap.

Right. We were at gun-point, and your

60.

-- says she's pregnant.

Let me tell it, OK? I had no idea how we

were going to get out of this jam, and

then it hit me: what do foxes do better

than any other animal?

Dig.

You're stepping on my lines.

Keep telling it.

So we dug. And the whole time I put paw

over paw, scooping dirt and pebbles with

your mother digging like crazy beside me,

I kept wondering: who is this little boy

going to be?

Or girl.

Fox grabs Ash by his shoulders and looks him in the eye.

Fox hugs Ash tightly, holds him for an instant, then let's

go. He turns to the group.

Badger, organize a search party and try

to find Kristofferson. Maybe he's alive.

I'm sorry, everyone. I wish --

Well, good-bye.

Fox looks across the cavern to Mrs. Fox standing with her

back to him. She turns to face him. Her eyes are burning. Fox

smiles sadly. He races away down the drain-pipe. Everyone

watches him disappear. Badger hesitates. He addresses the

61.

I guess we should probably split into a

certain number of groups and start doing

something, right?

INT. CONDUIT. NIGHT

Fox sprints full-speed in the darkness. His claws scratch

rattling along the iron floor and splash through puddles of

shallow water.

Fox stops suddenly. He stands up tall on his hind legs. His

ears perk up. One pins back. He listens.

Badger carrying a lantern leading Ash, Mole, and two small

rabbits down a drainpipe. Badger calls out:

Kristofferson? Hello? Can you hear us?

Rat's voice echoes in the darkness:

Y'all lookin' for somethin'? Nothin' down

here but rusty bottle-caps and drainin'

water.

Everyone stops short. Rat drops into the pipe from an

overhead drain ahead of them. He says ominously:

They got the boy.

Who's got him?

The farmers three. You know who I'm

talkin' about.

They've kidnapped him?

Well-done, Mr. Badger. You're a smart

man. They want to trade the son for his

poppa.

62.

Rat flicks a folded letter through the air. Badger catches

it. He opens it. Kylie looks over his shoulder. Badger

frowns.

Why'd they write this in letters cut out

of magazines?

To protect their identities.

(on second thought)

Oh, right, but then why'd they sign their

names? Plus, we already knew who they

were because they're trying to kill us.

A ransom note written in letters cut out of magazines and

pasted onto a piece of paper. Badger reads out loud:

Mr. Fox, we have your son. If you

ever want to see him alive again --

Ash calls out:

I'm his son.

Everyone looks at Ash. He stands behind them in silhouette.

Rat says darkly:

I can see the resemblance.

Pause. In an instant, Rat grabs Ash by the tail, picks him up

off the ground, swings him in the air, and flings him away

twenty feet down the drainpipe. Badger looks stunned.

Ash sits in a puddle in a stupor. Rat races toward him down

the tunnel. He leaps into the air with his claws out and his

teeth bared. As he is about to seize upon Ash -- he is

suddenly jerked backwards and spun around.

Rat is face to face with Fox. Fox strikes his old-fashioned

boxing stance. He draws back and throws a hard punch, nailing

Rat square in the jaw. Rat staggers, stunned. He swings his

switchblade, cutting Fox across the chest.

Fox touches the wound and looks at the blood on the fingers

of his paw. He looks to Rat. Rat holds up his wrist and shows

Fox a child's plastic digital watch with miniature footballs,

baseballs, and soccer balls on it. He says strangely:

63.

I've still got it.

What'd you just say?

I said I've still got the watch, Mr. Fox.

She never asked for it back.

A frozen moment. Fox springs forward and clamps his jaws onto

Rat's throat. Rat tumbles over backwards. Fox pins him to the

ground with his teeth in Rat's neck. Rat kicks and bucks and

struggles, but Fox holds him fast. Rat goes limp. Fox

releases him.

Everyone slowly gathers around Fox and Rat. Ash kneels next

to his father. Fox cradles Rat in his arms. Rat whispers:

The boy's locked in an apple crate on top

of a gun-locker in the attic of Bean

Annex. It's a set-up.

Would you have told me if I didn't kill

you first?

Rat smiles sickly. Blood drips from his mouth. His voice

Never.

(shaking his head)

All these wasted years. What were you

looking for, Rat?

Fox wipes the blood from Rat's chin. Rat mutters.

He's trying to say something, Dad.

Fox leans his ear close to Rat's mouth. As quiet as a mouse,

Cider.

64.

Fox nods. He looks around the drainpipe. He cups his paw into

the pool of murky water and holds it to Rat's lips.

Here you are, Rat. A beaker of Bean's

finest secret cider.

Rat's slivery, scratchity, long, pink tongue laps up a taste

of the black liquid. He licks his lips and says faintly:

Like melted gold.

Rat's eyes turn into X's. He is dead. Ash stands up.

He redeemed himself.

Redemption? Sure.

Fox swallows and says hopelessly with tears in his eyes:

But, in the end -- he's just another dead

rat in a garbage pail behind a Chinese

restaurant.

Ash puts his hand on Fox's shoulder. Fox lays Rat gently onto

the sewer floor. He stands up and turns to the rest of the

group. Badger claps his paws together.

Well, I suppose we should --

Excuse me, again, B. The search party's

been cancelled. We're replacing it with a

go-for-broke rescue mission. It's a set-

up, but maybe we can make it work. You

two little rabbits run tell the others.

Now, go!

The two little rabbits scurry away down the drainpipe. Badger

walks with Fox and Ash.

What was he saying about that wristwatch?

I didn't get what he was talking about.

65.

Fox hesitates. He shrugs and says with a sad nostalgia:

Just some old back-story.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT

The entire community of animals has reconnoitered in the

brick cavern. Fox stands on a large spigot and addresses the

group. He has a bandage on his chest.

In a way, I'm almost glad that flood

interrupted us, because I don't like the

toast I was giving. I'm going to start

over.

Fox pantomimes raising a long-stemmed glass.

When I look down this table with the

exquisite feast set before us, I see: two

terrific lawyers, a skilled pediatrician,

a wonderful chef, a savvy real-estate

agent, an excellent tailor, a crack

accountant, a gifted musician, a pretty

good minnow fisherman, and possibly the

best landscape painter working on the

scene today.

As Fox describes them, the shot cuts to: Badger and Beaver;

Mrs. Badger; Rabbit; Weasel; an especially small, waifish

field mouse; Mole; Kylie (who looks slightly offended); and

Mrs. Fox, respectively.

Maybe a few of you might even read my

column from time to time. Who knows? I

tend to doubt it.

I also see a room full of wild animals.

Everyone stares at Fox curiously, skeptical but intrigued.

Fox points at them:

Wild animals with true natures and pure

talents. Wild animals with scientific-

sounding Latin names that mean something

about our D.N.A. Wild animals each with

his own strengths and weaknesses due to

his or her species, and also -- well, I

guess these things usually have a lot to

66.

do with the parents, as we all know.

Anyway, I think it may very well be all

the beautiful differences among us that

just might give us the tiniest glimmer of

a chance of saving my nephew and letting

me make it up to you for getting us into

this crazy whatever-it-is. I don't know.

It's just a thought. Thank you for

listening. Cheers, everyone.

Fox motions with his imaginary glass and pantomimes drinking

it. A few of the others reluctantly pantomime drinking. Fox

finishes his glass and pantomimes throwing it on the floor.

He makes a smashing-glass sound. Kylie shouts:

Let's eat!

Everyone turns to Kylie uncertainly. Kylie hesitates.

What? I'm just playing along with the --

All right! Let's start planning! Who

knows shorthand?

Pause. Badger points to his otter secretary. She is Linda.

Fox darts over to her and grips her by the arm.

Linda! Lutra Lutra! You got some dry

paper? Here we go!

Fox, highly energized, moves among the group, touching their

shoulders and patting their backs.

Mole! Talpa Europea! What do you got?

I can see in the dark?

That's incredible! We can use that!

Linda?

Got it.

67.

Rabbit! Oryctolagus Cuniculus!

I'm fast.

You bet your cuss you are! Linda?

Got it.

Beaver! Castor Fiber!

I can chew through wood.

Amazing! Linda?

Got it.

Badger! Meles Meles!

Demolitions expert!

What? Since when?

Explosions, flames, things that burn!

Demolitions expert! OK! Linda!

Got it!

Fox's cheeks and forehead are beaded with perspiration. He

Weasel! Mustela Nivalis!

68.

Stop yelling!

Fox snaps his fingers, kicks a rock, and throws his arm into

the air.

All right!

Fox points to the various cubs and pups.

All you little kids get organized and put

together some kind of a K.P. unit or

something to keep this sewer clean. It's

good for morale.

The field mouse shoves his way to the front of the crowd. He

makes a fist with his paw.

I want to go with you, too! I want to

fight!

Good. Fabulous! Microtus Pennsylvanicus!

Do you do that, in fact? Are field mice

violent?

Not particularly, except maybe domestic/

kitchen sink-type stuff, but I have a

hunch I might just --

-- land a few good punches before I get

stepped on, poisoned, or lured to my

death by a little piece of cheese. Who's

to say?

(smiling with admiration)

You're a cuss of a lot bigger than you

look, Rickity.

Kylie tugs at Fox's sleeve. Fox turns to look at him. Kylie

I didn't get a job yet -- or a Latin

name. What's my strength?

Fox raises an eyebrow. He thinks of something:

69.

Listen, you're Kylie. You're an

unbelievably nice guy. Your job is really

just to... be available, I think. I don't

know your Latin name. I doubt they even

had opossums in ancient Rome.

Kylie puts his hands in his pockets and scowls.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. NIGHT

Mrs. Fox puts the finishing touches on a vast mural painted

on the longest, tallest wall of the brick cavern. She stands

on a ladder. Her sleeves are rolled up, and she is splattered

with twelve different colors of paint. She looks down to Fox

standing below with an entourage of Kylie, Badger, Linda, and

Rickity. The animal children mop and scrub in the background.

Ash stands leaning against a push-broom watching his parents.

Fox surveys the mural. It is highly detailed, filled with the

textures of the landscape, and decorated with images of

flowers, leaves, acorns, etc. It is signed Felicity Fox. Fox

opens his arms wide and shouts:

It's stupendous. Where's us?

MRS. FOX

(pointing to a spot)

Right here.

Paint an X.

The bottom of the map. Mrs. Fox's paw paints a red X and puts

a circle around it.

The shot zooms out to reveal the entire valley -- no longer a

painting on the brick wall. Lighting strikes at the horizon.

Dark clouds loom over the three farmers' compounds. It looks

exactly like one of Mrs. Fox's paintings of a landscape in a

rainstorm. Bean's helicopter circles the area.

EXT. HILL. NIGHT

A bicycle messenger with a head-lamp rings his bell as he

approaches the farmers' camp. He stops in front of Bean and

hands him an envelope. Bean tears it open and unfolds the

letter inside.

70.

A note written in letters cut out of magazines and pasted

onto a piece of paper. It reads:

Dear Farmers Boggis, Bunce, and Bean,

I have no alternative but to agree to

your terms. Move the station wagon and

open the manhole cover below the foot of

the drainpipe next to the cobbler's shop

and meet me there today at 10 A.M. sharp.

I will hand myself over to you in

exchange for the boy's safe return.

Cordially,

Mr. Fox

Bean frowns. He studies the letter. He shows it to Boggis and

Bunce.

Why'd he write this in letters cut out of

magazines?

I don't know, but you did the same thing.

I don't trust this guy. Anyway, set up

the ambush.

INT. ATTIC. DAY

The top floor of Bean Annex. The room is filled with boxes of

Christmas ornaments, old sports equipment, two stained

mattresses, and a broken birdcage. Cobwebs hang from the

rafters below the sloped roof.

Kristofferson stands with his hands in his pockets looking

out between the slats from inside a padlocked apple crate on

top of a gun locker in the corner. He clears his throat. He

calls out politely:

Could I have a cup of water, please?

Kristofferson waits for a reply, but no one answers. He

whistles to himself for a minute. He clears his throat again.

He calls out:

Excuse me! Excuse me?

71.

Silence.

INT. DRAINPIPE. DAY

A cement conduit with an iron grating above it. A fast stream

of sewer water runs along its side. Fox walks briskly down

the pipe followed by his entourage and Ash. Their steps echo

loudly.

Synchronize your clocks. The time is

Fox looks at his wrist. He is wearing Rat's plastic, digital,

sports-themed wristwatch.

-- nine forty-five A.M.

Everyone checks their watches. Badger points at Fox's wrist.

Is that Rat's watch?

No. Originally, no.

Well, OK, here's the back-story: when I

was a teenager I spent a summer working

as a bar-back at a jazz pub called

Django's where Rat played horn down

near -- can I tell this another time? We

should stay focused on what's happening

right now.

Ash comes up to Fox's side and says discreetly:

I should probably ride with you and Kylie

since it's my fault Kristofferson got

captured stealing those nutmeg-ginger-

apple snaps.

I didn't understand a word of that

sentence, but none of it matters, anyway,

because it's too dangerous for you to

come with us.

72.

EXT. STREET. DAY

An old craftsman looks out from the window of Ferguson

Cobblers as he taps little nails into the heel of a loafer. A

station-wagon with wood-grain side-panels and a flat tire

sits parked on a manhole cover in front of the shop. Boggis,

Bunce, and five armed farmhands watch as Bean monkeys with a

slim-jim until he gets the car door jimmied.

Bean hops inside. He starts the engine, puts his arm over the

top of the seat as he looks back out the rear window, and

throws the station-wagon into reverse. The farmers clear out

of the way as Bean backs up off the manhole cover.

Boggis and Bunce stick tools into the manhole cover and lift

it open.

Rat's watch. It is now 10 A.M.

Six armed farmhands on the roof of the Nag's Head Tavern.

Seven armed farmhands in the bushes behind Sweetings Bakery.

Eight armed farmers in the window of Harrison Travel.

The Action 13 reporter and camera crew in an alley next to

EXT. STREET. DAY

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean crouch behind the open doors of a

pick-up truck with three beagles. Boggis checks his carbine.

Bunce loads his shotgun. Bean cocks his Luger. Fox's voice

hollers from deep inside the manhole:

FOX (O.S.)

Did you bring the boy?

Of course, we did! Say something, kid!

Bunce presses play on a tape recorder. Kristofferson's voice

comes over a loudspeaker:

73.

Excuse me! Excuse me?

Bunce presses stop.

Fox and his entourage at the bottom off the manhole. Fox

scoffs. He smiles and shakes his head.

Come on! That doesn't sound anything like

him! It's amateur night in Dixie!

Badger rapidly slaps two pieces of flint together. A bit

chips off, and sparks fly from the break. He blows on some

kindling. He takes a pinecone out of a basket.

EXT. STREET. DAY

A ribbon of white smoke rises out of the manhole. The three

farmers watch curiously as it thickens and turns black. Bean

frowns.

What the cuss is he burning?

A blazing pinecone shoots out of the manhole and flies

through the air, over the farmers' heads. It lands in a trash

can and lights some rubbish on fire. A man with a dart in one

hand and a mug of ale in the other comes out of the Nag's

Head and pours his beer into the trash can. The fire goes

out.

The three farmers laugh smugly. Bean shouts:

Is that all you've got, Mr. Fox?

Twenty-seven blazing pinecones shoot out of the manhole and

hit: a wood-pile on the roof of the Nag's Head, a box of

pastry wrappers in the bushes behind Sweetings, a stack of

brochures in the window of Harrison Travel, a hay bale in the

bed of the pick-up truck, Boggis, Bunce, Bean, and a crate of

cam-corder batteries next to the Action 13 camera crew, which

explodes. Farmers scatter, grabbing hoses, yelling, and

tamping out the flames as the beagles bark, yelp, and

scramble in the confusion.

Rabbit darts out of the hole and races up the street. Six

farmers chase after him, firing their weapons.

74.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. DAY

Down in the brick cavern, Mole listens to a tin can attached

to a string. He says urgently as he makes notations in a

Twenty-eight pinecones fired! Twenty-two

targets hit!

Mrs. Fox, standing on her ladder, paints black checks quickly

on the street in her mural. The stolen, portable television

set sits in the corner, tuned into Action 13's coverage of

the chaos in the street.

Rabbit running full-steam out of the village being pursued by

the six farmhands. He hurdles an empty Coke bottle lying on

its side in the road.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Badger jumps out of the manhole and throws more blazing

pinecones at farmers, trucks, parked cars, doors, windows,

and the Action 13 camera crew. Seven farmhands chase him down

a cobblestone lane.

Weasel and Beaver climb out with straws in their paws and

start firing blueberries toward the disoriented beagles. The

beagles eat blueberries. They fall over. Eight farmhands

chase Weasel and Beaver up a wooded path.

Rickity, the field mouse, bounds out of the hole and leaps

into the fracas. He fires a rubber band at Bunce off a

paperclip. It snaps Bunce in the corner of his eye. Rickity

lets out a little whoop.

There is a small explosion and a burst of flames blasts from

the manhole. Fox and Kylie jump out and run over to a vehicle

with a tarp over it parked in front of Paddington Automotive.

Fox whips off the tarp, revealing a miniature motorcycle with

a sidecar.

Fox driving the motorcycle with Kylie in the sidecar. They

both wear helmets and goggles. Thunder rumbles in the

distance. Kylie sinks lower in the sidecar. He shouts to Fox

over the sound of the motor:

Are you scared of wolves?

75.

Scared, no! I have a phobia of them!

Well, I have a thing about thunder!

Why? That's stupid!

Ash pokes his head up from the rear compartment of the

sidecar. He also wears a helmet and goggles. His white cape

flutters behind him. He shouts:

I don't like needles!

Fox and Kylie look to Ash in disbelief. Fox says furiously:

Where'd you come from again? How'd you

get in the sidecar? I feel like I'm

losing my mind!

Fox angrily steers toward a small mound of dirt. They jump it

slightly and fly over a little ditch. Ash yelps

enthusiastically as Fox drives them back onto the road.

INT. HELICOPTER. DAY

A pilot with a red moustache and a South African accent flies

Bean's chopper. He wears a Bean, inc. patch on his shoulder.

He shouts into the microphone connected to his helmet:

I've got a fox on a motorcycle with a

littler fox and what looks to be an

opossum in the sidecar riding north on

farm lane seven. Does that sound like

anything to anybody?

A military-type voice responds over the radio:

MILITARY VOICE (O.S.)

Roger that, Red. Let me just, uh -- Oh, I

think the boss wants to --

BEAN (0.S.)

Red, it's Franklin Bean! Turn around, get

the cuss back here, and pick us up on the

A.S.A.P!

76.

EXT. BEAN'S COMPOUND. DAY

The Bean, inc. windmill spins briskly in the dusty winds.

Shutters on the farmhouse bang open and shut. Leaves rustle

on the branches of the apple trees. A few stray turkeys

wander in the yard. A white-washed brick pile six stories

tall sits apart from the other structures. The doors to its

courtyard are made of iron and painted yellow. This is Bean

Annex.

The front gates of the farm are open, and a gardener waters

vegetables next to the driveway. Fox, Kylie, and Ash look out

from a high branch over a reinforced concrete and barbed-wire

security barricade.

That's the annex over there on the right.

Ash nods. Kylie does not respond.

The white building over there on the

right.

Pause. Fox looks to Kylie.

Kylie?

Kylie turns to Fox and stares at him vacantly. Fox says

Kylie!

What?

I did it!

When? I didn't see it!

Kylie makes his slight gesture with his paw. The gardener

puts three turnips into a basket and rides away on his

bicycle.

Fox, Kylie, and Ash scramble down the tree trunk. They come

out of the bushes on their motorcycle and ride through the

gates, across the yard, past the wandering turkeys. They park

outside the courtyard doors to Bean Annex and jump off the

motorcycle.

77.

Fox climbs onto Kylie's shoulders and tries the knobs. They

are locked.

Kylie, you got a credit card?

(digging in his pockets)

Sure.

See, this is what I was saying about how

good you are at just being available for

Kylie hands Fox a World Traveler Titanium Card. Fox frowns.

A Titanium Card? How the cuss did you

qualify for this?

I pay my bills on time. I've always had

good credit.

Fox examines the card with mild resentment. He picks the lock

and opens the doors.

The courtyard has high walls and a gravel floor. On one side,

there are ten trash cans, a stack of newspapers, and a

compost heap. On the other side, there is an old, rusted,

broken-down tractor and a new one. By far the largest,

fattest, toughest beagle yet lies sleeping in the middle.

White foam froths around its mouth as it breathes heavily.

Its collar is hooked to a thick chain. A tag around its neck

reads Spitz.

Fox, Kylie, and Ash stop in their tracks. The beagle opens

his eyes. Fox turns to Kylie.

Give me a blueberry.

Kylie looks surprised. He shrugs. He shakes his head and

gestures, I don't have any. Fox frowns. He throws up his

hands in the air. Kylie makes a frustrated face. Fox points

at him. Kylie looks away and snorts angrily. Fox looks away

and spits at the ground. Ash says quietly:

What's that white stuff around his mouth?

78.

I think he eats soap.

Fox sees an amber, plastic pharmacy bottle on a shelf above

some bags of fertilizer. It's reads:

Drug: Phenomoxylcarbobubytol, 10 mg

For: RABIES (chronic)

Other: Take with meat, do not operate heavy machinery

Fox frowns. He says grimly:

That's not soap.

Well, then why does he have that bubbly --

He's rabid. With rabies. I've heard about

this beagle.

The beagle stands up. Fox says carefully:

Easy, boy.

Fox takes a cautious step toward the beagle. He holds out the

back of his paw for the beagle to sniff. He says back over

his shoulder to Kylie and Ash:

I'm going to try to befriend him. I feel

like there's a tenderness in his eyes.

Fox takes another step. He makes a soft, kissing noise. The

beagle watches him calmly.

lonely, maybe, but --

Fox takes another cautious step.

-- but terribly sweet. Hello, there, boy.

Is your name Spitz? That's German, isn't

it?

79.

(aside, to Ash)

I thought he said you never look a beagle

in the eye.

Why, you're just as sweet as a --

Fox and the beagle lock eyes. The pupils of the beagle's eyes

contract then completely disappear, and the whites turn

bright red. Fox's eyes open wider than their sockets.

The rabid beagle erupts ballistically, attacking like an

enraged maniac. His chain rips out of the cement. Fox, Kylie,

and Ash shriek and scream, sprinting frantically around the

courtyard as the rabid beagle, frothing, roaring, and

snapping, tries desperately to kill them. Fox shouts, his

voice cracking like a grandmother's:

Climb the trellis!

In well under a second, Fox, Kylie, and Ash scale the trellis

six stories -- Kylie's pants catching on a nail and ripping

off on the way up -- and find themselves standing on the roof

of Bean Annex. Kylie wears blue Fruit-of-the-Looms with a

pattern of stars, moons, and planets on them. They all look

down at the rabid beagle, which continues to pitch an insane

fit, running in circles after its tail at the bottom of the

courtyard.

Fox takes in their new surroundings. He says, pleased:

So the attic is probably in the area

right up around here somewhere, I figure,

huh?

Kylie and Ash, panting and dripping with sweat, both stare at

Fox vacantly.

(NOTE: a second set of alternate eyeballs indicating Kylie's

vacant look will be used for Ash in this shot.)

Come on, guys. Stay with me. We did good.

That's just some dog. Let's not get

traumatized.

80.

EXT. ROOF. DAY

Bean's helicopter lands on top of the Nag's Head. Fires

smolder and farmers continue to chase around after animals in

the village streets below. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean, leaning

over and holding onto their hats, run to the chopper and

climb inside. They take off.

The street below. An orange and yellow Citroen van screeches

into the melee. Painted yellow letters spell Badoit et Fils,

Destruction des Animaux Nuisibles on the side of it with an

image of a trapped fox.

An old man with a grey moustache and a young man with a black

moustache, both dressed in orange-and-yellow-striped

uniforms, jump out of the van. They open the side door and

start unloading stacks of metal cages.

Rabbit still running full-steam down a country lane being

pursued by the six farmhands.

INT. ATTIC. DAY

Kristofferson stands inside the apple crate leaning against

the wall with his legs crossed and one arm akimbo with his

hand on his hip. There is a clanking sound from above.

Kristofferson looks up.

A trap door in the ceiling creaks open. Fox, Kylie, and Ash

look inside, down at Kristofferson. Kristofferson smiles

oddly and says in a surprised, fancy-meeting-you-here voice:

Hi!

Fox and Kylie lowering Ash into the room with three different-

colored shoelaces tied together and belted around his waist.

Ash holds the shoelace and keeps a paw behind his back like a

mountaineer. His feet touch down on the shelf. He runs to the

apple crate and jiggles the padlock. He hesitates. He says

Can I get one of those karate lessons

real quick?

81.

OK. Normally, we start with some

breathing exercises and such. Stand like

this.

Kristofferson stands with his paws clasped in front of him.

Ash mimics this.

A fox-trap hanging from a chain suspended above the alley

behind the Nag's Head Tavern. A second one hangs behind

Sweetings Bakery. A third one hangs behind Harrison Travel. A

fourth one hangs behind St. John's Coin-op Laundry. A fifth

one hangs behind Ferguson Cobblers.

Rickity curiously examines a little, hanging wire. He mutters

Is this spring-loaded?

Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:

This next part is mental. Position

yourself on the balls of your feet.

Kristofferson stands lightly poised with his arms out. Ash

mimics this.

Close your eyes.

Kristofferson closes his eyes. So does Ash. So do Fox and

Kylie. Kristofferson says mystically:

You weigh less than a slice of bread.

Each fox-trap in rapid succession as it falls on: Rickity,

Badger, Weasel, and Beaver. The two small rabbits watch from

a sewer-gutter drain under the street-curb. They panic. They

race down a pipe, into a tunnel, and through a conduit.

Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:

82.

Let's review the principle agility

techniques: jumping, flipping, landing.

Mrs. Fox looking down from her ladder at the three, panting

rabbits. She looks stunned. She motions to her mural/map and

MRS. FOX

Show me where they are!

The two small rabbits, Mrs. Rabbit, Mrs. Badger, Mole, and

Mrs. Fox each furiously digging a new tunnel.

KRISTOFFERSON (V.0.)

Now for a rudimentary version of the

cyclone chop.

Kristofferson continuing Ash's karate lesson:

First, you need to get a running start,

which, obviously, I can't do in here,

then, as you arrive at the destination of

the chop --

-- lean and thrust into the point of

contact, paw remains open and straight,

then withdraw instantaneously. Remember,

it's the pull-back that matters. The pull-

-- generates the force of the impact.

Got it.

Ash walks ten paces away to the far end of the shelf. Fox and

Kylie watch from above. Kylie says excitedly:

He's going to do it!

Fox makes a face that says, I'm not so sure. Ash takes a deep

breath. He screams at the top of his lungs as he sprints

toward the apple crate:

83.

Ki-ya!

Ash's toe catches on a loose nail. He somersaults twice

through the air and bounces off the side of the apple crate,

which falls off the shelf.

Kristofferson braces himself. The apple crate hits the floor

and shatters into pieces. Kristofferson lies among the

wreckage.

Ash looks over the side of the shelf. Fox and Kylie watch

from above, grimacing.

I'm sorry.

That's all right. You were just trying to

unlock the apple crate.

No, I mean I'm sorry about --

(picking himself up)

Oh, you mean from before. The apology you

owed me which you never actually said.

Yeah.

Kristofferson nods sadly. He takes a deep breath. He nods

again.

That's all right, too. Throw me the

shoelace, please.

Ash smiles.

Badger trapped in his cage. He hears something. He looks

quickly down the alley. The old, orange van turns the corner

and approaches, bumping over potholes. Badger shrinks into

the corner of the cage and mutters grimly to himself:

Badoit et fils.

84.

A cobblestone beside Badger suddenly drops straight down and

disappears into the ground. Badger recoils, scared and

confused.

Mrs. Fox pokes her head up through the hole. She is beaded

with perspiration and breathes heavily. Her fur is wildly

dishevelled. She looks to the van driving up the alley. She

looks to Badger. She extends her paw to him and says

MRS. FOX

Let's go!

EXT. YARD. DAY

Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson come around the side of

the building. They run to their motorcycle, outside the

courtyard doors. They freeze.

The front gates to the compound are closed and bolted. Bean's

helicopter waits on top of the vegetable garden with its

rotar-blades whirling. Boggis, Bunce, and Bean stand in front

of Bean Annex with their weapons drawn.

Fox sees his tail around Bean's collar. His eyes narrow. His

jaw sets. He says to himself with growing emotion:

Your tractors uprooted my tree. Your

posse hunted my family. Your gunmen

kidnapped my nephew. Your rat insulted my

wife -- and you shot off my tail.

I'm not leaving here without that neck-

tie.

Bean smiles his sickly smile. Fox smiles back defiantly.

Kylie looks utterly baffled. Ash says mystically:

I weigh less than a slice of bread.

What?

I'll be right back.

Ash runs. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson watch, shocked, as

Ash sprints back to the courtyard doors. The three farmers

open fire at him. Fox, Kylie, and Kristofferson duck and take

cover behind a hay-bale.

85.

Ash dodges bullets. He jumps off the balls of his feet with

his arms out over a sprinkler-pipe and swings like a gymnast

onto a clothesline, then flies through the air doing another

of his spectacularly awkward four-armed and three-legged back-

flips. He lands on the handle of one of the courtyard doors

Ki-ya!

Ash cyclone-chops the doorknob. The lock clicks. Ash's eyes

light up.

Ash drops to the ground. He digs a hole and burrows into the

dirt as bullets fly everywhere. He breathes in through his

nose and out through his mouth. Fox watches with his jaw

hanging open.

The courtyard doors smash apart and the rabid beagle tears

out into the vegetable garden growling, foaming, and

thrashing crazily. The farmers shriek and scream and run

around, panicking, with their guns blazing.

Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson jump onto their

motorcycle. The beagle rips the tail from Bean's neck, shreds

it, chews it up, and swallows it. Fox deflates for an

instant, then recovers. He looks to Ash on the back of the

motorcycle, behind him, with his hands around Fox's waist. He

says with the deepest affection and respect:

Ash, that was pure, wild animal

craziness. You're an athlete.

Ash swallows. He beams. He sits up straighter.

(NOTE: from this point onwards, an alternate version of Ash

will be used which is slightly taller, slightly leaner, and

animated slightly more gracefully.)

Fox kick-starts the motorcycle and races across the farm.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean scramble onto the roof of a car port

with an old, white Mercedes convertible under it. The

snarling beagle barks and snaps below them. They watch as:

Fox steers the motorcycle toward a broken apple cart at the

edge of the property. He guns the motor and yells:

Holy swearing cuss!!!

86.

Fox races the motorcycle up the apple cart, into the air, and

over the concrete barricade. They land in the middle of the

road, skidding, and speed off down the hill.

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean watching from the roof of the car

port. Boggis turns to Bean and says, deadpan, needling him:

Franklin? You got any final twist for

this plot?

Yeah!

Bean grabs Boggis by the neck and throttles him. Bunce starts

throwing punches. Bean holds him back by the forehead. Boggis

kicks Bunce in the stomach. They brawl chaotically while the

rabid beagle continues to go bananas below them.

Each fox-trap with a cobblestone missing underneath it and a

hole in the ground. The old man with the grey moustache turns

to his son and says with a strong French accent:

Cuss.

INT. SEWER SYSTEM. DAY

Mrs. Fox sits anxiously at the bottom of her ladder. Badger,

Weasel, Rickity, the two small rabbits, and the others sit,

exhausted, in the dark cavern, passing a jar of cider. Mole

Stand by!

Everyone looks to Mole. Mole is holding the tin can with the

string attached to it to his ear. He nods and says urgently:

I just intercepted a high-frequency radio

signal with the can --

(gestures with the tin can)

-- and I think they're on their way home!

87.

Mrs. Fox jumps up, embraces Mole, and kisses him on the

snout. Mole blushes.

Rabbit still running full-steam back into the village being

pursued by the six farmhands. He comes to the manhole where

they started and darts into it. The six farmhands stop at the

manhole and look down. They go straight to the Nag's Head,

walk inside, and close the door behind them.

EXT. ROAD. DAY

Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson ride down a country road.

Kylie sees something across the meadow. He says warily:

Don't turn around!

What?

Fox turns around. A huge, wild, grey wolf with ice-blue eyes

stands on a rock fifty feet away from them. Fox slams on the

brakes. The motorcycle slides to a halt.

Where'd he come from?

Where'd you come from? What are you doing

here?

Pause. Fox points toward the wolf:

Canis lupus!

Fox points to himself:

Vulpes Vulpes!

The wolf does not answer. Fox, Kylie, Ash, and Kristofferson

watch idling from the motorcycle.

I don't think he speaks English or Latin.

Pensez-vous que 1'hiver sera rude?

I'm asking if he thinks we're in for a

hard winter.

88.

The wolf shakes his head. Fox nods.

He doesn't seem to know.

Silence. Fox shouts to the wolf with a strange hitch in his

I have a phobia of wolves!

The wolf does not answer. It breathes heavily with its mouth

open. Its teeth are long, sharp, and yellow. Its tongue hangs

out, and its eyes are wild. Fox looks back at it with the

identical expression for a minute, mesmerized -- then Fox

closes his mouth and his eyes soften.

Fox raises his paw in the air. The wolf blinks a few times.

It raises its paw in the air. It turns away and trots off

into the woods. Fox says wistfully:

What a beautiful creature. Wish him luck,

boys.

Fox guns the motor. Gravel spits from under the spinning

tires, and they tear off down the road. The shot booms down

into the ground, below the grass, through buried pebbles,

layers of soil, and subterranean mineral deposits.

THREE DAYS LATER (2 1/2 Fox Weeks)

The shot continues to descend past Badger and his family

having dinner in a nicely furnished drain-pipe, past Rabbit

and his family watching Magnum, P.I. on the stolen, portable

television set in a well-appointed cement tunnel, past Beaver

and Mrs. Beaver hosting Mole and Weasel for cocktails in a

tasteful sewer-conduit.

The shot stops in a small chamber adjacent to the brick

cavern. The walls are filled with electrical cables, wires,

pipes, and a large, new mural which depicts the Fox's former

view of the valley as seen from their tree with a trompe

1'oeil window-frame around it. It is signed Felicity Fox.

Ash and Kristofferson sit Indian-style meditating on a

braided rug. Mrs. Fox works mixing paints and turpentine at

an easel in the corner. There is an armchair with a folded-up

copy of the Gazette on its cushion in the center of the room

under a glowing lamp. Classical music plays on a radio.

89.

Fox swings his head into the room from a tunnel. He says

My darlings?

Everyone looks to Fox. He signals them to follow him.

INT. DRAINPIPE. NIGHT

The cement conduit with the iron grating above it. Fox and

his family walk briskly down the pipe. A knitted, woolen,

artificial tail has been sewn into the seat of Fox's

trousers.

Where are we going?

Nobody knows.

We were in the middle of a meditation

practice.

Watch your step.

Fox takes everyone through an opening and starts climbing a

metal ladder. He says theatrically:

Let's see, now. Where does this lead?

MRS. FOX

Oh, no, Foxy. It's filthy.

Keep a good grip, everyone.

This better be worth it.

I think I see a little sliver of light.

What's this? Is that a door?

MRS. FOX

You're a terrible actor, Foxy.

90.

Do you smell something? Is that --

-- freon?

Shh. I'm going to crack open this trap

door and see if something's on the other

side. I highly doubt it, though. There's

probably just more sewer.

Fox clears his throat. Pause.

You know, wouldn't it be surprising if --

Open it.

Fox pushes open the trap door and crawls out. Everyone

follows him.

INT. SUPERMARKET. NIGHT

Fox and his family stand in the middle of an aisle at the

center of a large grocery store. To their left is the

refrigerated section of milk, eggs, meat, fish, and cheese.

To their right are canned goods, breakfast cereal, laundry

detergent, rice, pasta, and condiments. The lights are half-

dimmed, and a metal grate is closed over the front windows.

There are no people. Fox says casually:

Hey, look! There's a whole, enormous,

glorious, gigantic supermarket up here!

Ash and Kristofferson seem dumbstruck. Fox raises an eyebrow

and smiles at Mrs. Fox. She puts her arm around his shoulder.

MRS. FOX

You really are kind of a quote-unquote

fantastic fox.

I try. I guess now that Kristofferson's

dad's already down to single-pneumonia

and getting better, he'll be going home

soon, huh?

MRS. FOX

Actually, when he spoke to me from the

hospital, he said he was already talking

91.

MRS. FOX (cont'd)

to Weasel about real-estate availabil-

ities down in our sewer system.

Oh, really? Well, now's the time to buy.

Kylie comes around the end of the aisle pushing a miniature

shopping cart filled with jars of jelly, jam, olives,

pickles, and honey, plus three loaves of bread, Band-Aids,

toothpaste, and a carton of strawberry ice cream. He says

Did I hear my name?

Not down here, you didn't.

Why not?

Because we were talking about other

things.

Oh, well.

Fox looks at Ash, who is studying a twelve-pack of tropical

juice punch-boxes.

The white cape rather suits him, doesn't

it? Actually, I had to do quite a bit of

searching myself before I found a look

that really flattered me. Remember those

horseshoe cuff-links?

Fox and Mrs. Fox crack-up laughing. Fox notices something and

stops. He stares at Mrs. Fox strangely. She is glowing. She

hesitates. She shrugs.

MRS. FOX

I'm pregnant again.

Fox is confused and moved. He holds Mrs. Fox's face in his

paws. She smiles. Ash interrupts:

Dad?

92.

Fox and Mrs. Fox look to Ash. An empty punch-box lies on its

side behind him with a straw sticking out of it. There is a

huge, purple stain all over the front of his white shirt.

Should we dance?

Pause. Everyone breaks out giddily dancing an ecstatic jig.

Kylie waltzes the cart in circles. Fox spins Mrs. Fox.

A wide shot of all sixteen aisles of the supermarket stacked

with boxes, cartons, cans, bottles, bags, and jars of every

possible variety of food. The family of foxes continues to

dance at the distant end of the center aisle.

EXT. STREET. DAY

Boggis, Bunce, and Bean sit silently in folding metal chairs

around the manhole. Boggis's carbine rests across his lap.

Bunce's shotgun hangs from a strap over his shoulder. Bean

cleans his Luger. Petey sits on a cider box outside the Nag's

Head strumming his guitar in the background. The bartender

pulls the shutters shut and flips a sign on the door to

Closed. Petey starts singing his song as the credits roll.

The sun sets. The farmers sit waiting in the dark.

