The following text fades in over black:

This is a true story. The events depicted in this film took place

in Minnesota in 1987. At the request of the survivors, the names

have been changed. Out of respect for the dead, the rest has been

told exactly as it occured.

FLARE TO WHITE

FADE IN FROM WHITE

Slowly the white becomes a barely perceptible image:  white

particles wave over a white background.  A snowfall.

A car bursts through the curtain of snow.

The car is equipped with a hitch and is towing another car,

a brand-new light brown Cutlass Ciera with the pink sales

sticker showing in its rear window.

As the car roars past, leaving snow swirling in their dirft,

the title of the film fades in.

Green highway signs point the way to MOOREHEAD,

MINNESOTA/FARGO, NORTH DAKOTA.  The roads for the two cities

diverge.  A sign says WELCOME TO NORTH DAKOTA and another

just after says NOW ENTERING FARGO, ND, POP. 44,412.

The car pulls into a Rodeway Inn.

HOTEL LOBBY

A man in his early forties, balding and starting to paunch,

goes to the reception desk.  The clerk is an older woman.

The man prints "Jerry Lundega" onto a registration card,

then hastily crosses out the last name and starts to print

"Anderson."

As she types into a computer:

HOTEL ROOM

The man turns on the TV, which shows the local evening news.

CHAIN RESTAURANT

Anderson sits alone at a table finishing dinner.  Muzak

plays.  A middle-aged waitress approaches holding a pot of

regular coffee in one hand and decaf in the other.

The man looks at his watch.

THROUGH A WINDSHIELD

We are pulling into the snowswept parking lot of a one-story

brick building.  Broken neon at the top of the building

identifies it as the Jolly Troll Tavern.  A troll, also in

neon, holds a champagne glass aloft.

INSIDE

The bar is downscale even for this town.  Country music

plays on the jukebox.

Two men are seated in a booth at the back.  One is short,

slight, youngish.  The other man is somewhat older, and

dour.  The table in front of them is littered with empty

long-neck beer bottles.  The ashtray is full.

Anderson approaches.

They stare at him.  An awkward beat.

Carl Stares.  Jerry looks blankly back.

Grimsrud, the dour man who has not yet spoken, now softly

puts in with a Swedish-accented voice:

MINNEAPOLIS SUBURBAN HOUSE

Jerry enters through the kitchen door, in a parka and a red

plaid Elmer Fudd hat.  He stamps snow off his feet.  He is

carrying a bag of groceries which he deposits on the kitchen

counter.

DEN

Jerry enters, pulling off his plaid cap.

Wade Gustafson is mid-sixtyish, vigorous, with a full head

of gray hair.  His eyes remain fixed on the TV.

His reaction synchronizes with a reaction from the crowd.

KITCHEN

Jerry walks back in, taking off his coat.  His wife is

putting on an apron.  Jerry nods toward the living room.

DINING ROOM

Jerry, his wife, Wade and Scotty, twelve years old, sit

eating.

WHITE

A black like curls through the white.  Twisting perspective

shows that it is an aerial shot of a two-lane highway,

bordered by snowfields.  The highway carries one moving car.

INT. CAR

Carl Showalter is driving.  Gaear Grimsrud stares blankly

out.

After a long beat:

Grimsrud gives him a sour look.

GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE

Jerry is sitting in his glassed-in salesman's cubicle just

off the showroom floor.  On the other side of his desk sit

an irate customer and his wife.

He rises, and, as he leaves:

The couple watch him go to a nearby cubicle.

NEARBY CUBICLE

Jerry sits perched on the desk of another salesman who is

eating lunch as he watches a hockey game on a small portable

TV.

JERRY'S CUBICLE

Jerry re-enters.

Jerry sits staring at his lap.

Jerry mumbles into his lap:

WIDE EXTERIOR:  TRUCK STOP

There is a restaurant with many big rigs parked nearby, and

a motel with an outsize Paul Bunyan and Babe the Blue Ox

flanking its sign:  BLUE OX MOTEL.

MOTEL ROOM

Carl Showalter and Gaear Grimsrud are in the twin beds

having sex with two truck-stop hookers.

LATER

The couples like in their respective beds, gazing at the

offscreen TV.

LUNDEGAARD KITCHEN

We hear a morning show on television.  Jean Lundegaard is

making coffee in the kitchen as Scott eats cereal at the

table.

The phone rings.

She picks up the phone.

She holds the phone away and calls:

Jerry enters in shirtsleeves and tie.

He takes the phone.

Click.  Dial tone.

GUSTAFSON OLD GARAGE

Jerry wanders through the service area where cars are being

worked on.  He stops by an Indian in blue jeans who is

looking at the underside of a car that sits on a hydraulic

lift with a cage light hanging off its innards.

Jerry slaps his fist into his open palm and snaps his

fingers.

CAR

Carl is driving.  Grimsrud stares out front.

After a beat:

Grimsurd smokes, gazing out the window.

He drives.

JERRY'S CUBICLE

He is on the phone.

CLOSE ON TELEVISION

A morning-show host in an apron stands behind a counter on a

kitchen set.

Jean Lundegaard is curled up on the couch with a cup of

coffee, watching the television.

Jean smiles as we hear laughter and applause from the studio

audience.  She hears something else - a faint scraping sound

- and looks up.

The scraping sound persists.  Jean sets down her coffee cup

and rises.

From the studio audience:

KITCHEN

We track toward the back door.  A curtain is stretched tight

across its window.

Jean pulls the curtain back.  Bright sunlight amplified by

snow floods in.

A man in an orange ski mask looks up from the lock.

Jean gasps, drops the curtain, rutns and runs into -

- a taller man, also in a ski mask, already in the house.

We hear the crack of the back-door window being smashed.

The tall man - Gaear Grimsrud - grabs Jean's wrist.

She screams, staring at her own imprisoned wrist, then wraps

her gaping mouth around Grimsrud's gloved thumb and bites

down hard.

He drops her wrist.  As Carl enters, she races up the

stairs.

Grimsurd looks at his thumb.

UPSTAIRS BEDROOM

As the two men enter, a door at the far side is slamming

shut.  A cord snakes in under the door.

MASTER BATHROOM

Jean, sobbing, frantically pushes at buttons on the princess

phone.

The phone pops out of her hands, jangles across the tile

floor, smashes against the door and then bounces away, its

cord ripped free.

With a groaning sound, the door shifts in its frame.

BEDROOM

Grimsrud has a crowbar jammed in between the bathroom door

and frame, and is working it.

BATHROOM

Jean crosses to a high window above the toilet and throws it

open.  Snow that had drifted against the window sifts

lightly in.  Jean steps up onto the toilet.

The door creaks, moving as one piece in its frame.

Jean glances back as she steps up from the toilet seat to

the tank.

The groaning of the door ends with the wood around its knob

splintering and the knob itself falling out onto the floor.

The door swings open.

Grimsrud and Carl enter.

THEIR POV

Room empty, window open.

Carl strides to the window and hoists himself out.

Grimsrud opens the medicine cabinet and delicately taps

aside various bottles and tubes, seeking the proper unguent.

He finds a salve but after a moment sets it down, noticing

something in the mirror.

The shower curtain is drawn around the tub.

He steps toward it.

As he reaches for the curtain, it explodes outward, animated

by thrashing limbs.

Jean, screaming, tangled in the curtain, rips it off its

rings and stumbles out into the bedroom.  Grimsrud follows.

BEDROOM

Jean rushes toward the door, cloaked by the shower curtain

but awkwardly trying to push it off.

UPSTAIRS LANDING

Still thrashing, Jean crashes against the upstairs railing,

trips on the curtain and falls, thumping crazily down the

stairs.

Grimsrud trots down after her.

A PLAQUE:  WADE GUSTAFSON INCORPORTATED

INT. WADE'S OFFICE

Wade sits behind his desk; another man rises as Jerry

enters.

Stan Grossman shakes his hand.

Wade scowls, looks at Stan.

Wade is angry.

PARKING LOT

We are high and wide on the office building's parking lot.

Jerry emerges wrapped in a parka, his arms sticking stiffly

out at his sides, his breath vaporizing.  He goes to his

car, opens its front door, pulls out a red plastic scraper

and starts methodically scraping off the thin crust of ice

that has developed on his windshield.

The scrape-scrape-scrape sound carries in the frigid air.

Jerry goes into a frenzy, banging the scraper against the

windshield and the hood of his car.

The tantrum passes.  Jerry stands pantin, staring at nothing

in particular.

Scrape-scrape-scrape - he goes back to work on the

windshield.

FRONT DOOR

A beat, silent but for a key scraping at the lock.

The door swings open and Jerry edges in, looking about,

holding a sack of groceries.

He shuts the door.

He has already seen the shower curtain on the floor.  He

frowns, pokes at it with his foot.

UPSTAIRS BATHROOM

Jerry walks in.  He sets the groceries down on the toilet

tank.

He looks at the open window, through which snow still sifts

in.  He shuts it.

He picks up the small tube of uguent that sits on the sink,

frowns at it, puts it back in the medicine chest.

He looks at the shower curtain rod holding empty rings.

FOYER

Once again we are looking at the rumpled shower curtain.

From another room:

Then, slightly more agitated.

Beat.

Beat.

LIVING ROOM

Jerry stands in wide shot, hands on hips, looking down at a

telephone.

After a motionless beat he picks up the phone and punches in

a number.

BLACK

Hold in black.

A slow tilt down from night sky brings the head of a large

paper-mache figure into frame.  It is a flannel-shirt

woodsman carrying a double-edged ax over one shoulder.  As

we hear the rumble of an approaching car, the continuing

tilt and boom down brings us down the woodsman's body to a

pedestal.

A sweep of headlights illuminates a sign on the pedestal:

WELCOME TO BRAINDERD - HOME OF PAUL BUNYAN.

The headlights sweep off and a car hums past and on into the

background.  The two-lane highway is otherwise empty.

INT. CAR

Carl drives.  Grimsrud smokes and gazes out the window.

From the back seat we hear whimpering.

Grimsrud turns to look.

Jean lies bound and curled on the back seat underneath a

tarpaulin.

Grimsrud stares at him, then turns back to the window.

At a loud WHOOP Carl starts and looks back out the rear

window.  Fifty yards behind a state trooper has turned on

his gumballs.

Carl eases the car onto the shoulder.

Grimsrud looks at him.

He looks into the back seat as the car bounces and slows on

the gravel shoulder.

Grimsrud stares at Carl.

Both cars have stopped.  Carl looks up at the rear-view

mirror.

The trooper is stopped on the shoulder just behind them,

writing in his citation book.

Carl watches.

We hear the trooper's door open.

The trooper walks up the shoulder, one hand resting lightly

on top of his holster, his breath steaming in the cold night

air.

Carl opens his window as the trooper draws up.

The trooper scans the inside of the car, taking his time.

Grimsrud smokes and gazes calmly out his window.

Finally:

He reaches for his wallet.

He extends his wallet toward the trooper, a folded fifty-

dollar bill protruding from it.

He forces a laugh.

The policeman thoughtfully pats the fifty into the billfold

and hands the billfold back into the car.

Carl's nervous smile fades.

Grimsrud, smiling thinly, shakes his head.

There is a whimpering sound.

The policeman hesitates.

Another sound.

The policeman leans forward into the car, listening.

Grimsrud reaches across Carl, grabs the trooper by the hair

and slams his head down onto the car door.

The policeman grunts, digs awkwardly for footing outside and

throws an arm for balance against the outside of the car.

With his free hand, Grimsrud pops the glove compartment.  He

brings a gun out and reaches across Carl and shoots - BANG -

into the back of the trooper's head.

Jean screams.

He releases the policeman.

The policeman's head slides out the window and his body

flops back onto the street.

Carl looks out at the cop in the road.

Grimsrud takes the trooper's hat off of Carl's lap and sails

it out the open window.

Jean, for some reason, screams again.  Then stops.

He gets out.

EXT. ROAD

Carl leans down to hoist up the body.

Headlights appear:  an oncoming car.

INT. CIERA

Grimsrud notices.

EXT. ROAD

The car approaches, slowing.

Carl, with the trooper's body hoisted halfway up, is frozen

in the headlights.

The car accelerates and roars past and away.  We just make

out the silhouettes of two occupants in front.

INT. CIERA

Grimsrud slides into the driver's seat.  He squeals into a U-

turn, the driver's door slamming shut with his spin.

Small red tail lights fishtail up ahead.  The pursued car

churns up fine snow.

Grimsrud takes the cigarette from his mouth and stubs it in

his ashtray.  We hear the churning of the car wheels and the

pinging of snow clods and salt on the car's underside.

In the back seat, Jean starts screaming.

Grimsrud is not gaining on the tail lights.

He fights with the wheel as his car swims on the road face.

The red tail lights ahead start to turn.  With a distant

crunching sound, they disappear.

The headlights now show only empty road, starting to turn.

Grimsrud frowns and slows.

His headlights show the car up ahead off the road, crumpled

around a telephone pole, having failed to hold a turn.

Grimsrud brakes.

Jean slides off the back seat and thumps into the legwell.

Grimsrud sweeps his gun off the front seat, throws open his

door and gets out.

EXT. ROAD

The wrecked car's headlights shine off into a snowfield

abutting the highway.  A young man in a down parka is

limping across the snowfield, away from the wrecked car.

Grimsrud strides calmly out after the injured boy.  He

raises his gun and fires.

With a poof of feathers, a hole opens up in the boy's back

and he pitches into the snow.

Grimsrud walks up to the wreck and peers in its half-open

door.

A young woman is trapped inside the twisted wreckage,

injured.

Snow swirls in the headlights of the wreck.

Grimsrud raises his gun and fires.

AN OIL PAINTING

A blue-winged teal in flight over a swampy marshland.  The

room in which it hangs is dark.  We hear off-screen snoring.

We track off to reveal an easel upon which we see a half-

completed oil of a grey mallard.

The continuing track reveals a couple in bed, sleeping.  The

man, fortyish, pajama-clad, is big, and big-bellied.  His

mouth is agape.  He snores.  His arms are flung over a woman

in her thirties, wearing a nightie, mouth also open, not

snoring.

We hold for a long beat on their regular breathing and

snoring.

The phone rings.

The woman stirs.

She reaches for the phone.

The man stirs and clears his throat with a long deep rumble.

The man sits up, gazes stupidly about.

She hangs up.

The man swings his legs out.

He clears his throat with another deep rumble.

PLATE

Leavings of a huge plate of eggs, ham, toast.

Wider, we see Marge now wearing a beige police uniform.  A

patch on one arm says BRAINERD POLICE DEPARTMENT.  She wears

a heavy belt holding a revolver, walkie-talkie and various

other jangling police impedimenta.  Norm is in a dressing

gown.

As she struggles into a parka:

He is exiting back to the bedroom; she exits out the front

door.

EXT. GUNDERSON HOUSE

Dawn.  Marge is making her way down the icy front stoop to

her prowler.

INT. GUNDERSON HOUSE

Norm sits back onto the bed, shrugging off his robe.  Off-

screen we hear the front door open.

FRONT DOOR

Marge stamps the snow off her shoes.

HIGHWAY

Two police cars and an ambulance sit idling at the side of

the road, a pair of men inside each car.

The first car's driver door opens and a figure in a parka

emerges, holding two styrofoam cups.  His partner leans

across the seat to close the door after him.

The reverse shows Marge approaching from her own squad car.

He hands her one of the cups of coffee.

Marge looks around as they start walking.

BY THE WRECK

Laid out in the early morning light is the wrecked car, a

pair of footprints leading out to a man in a bright orange

parka face down in the bloodstained snow, and one pair of

footsteps leading back to the road.

Marge is peering into the car.

Marge looks up from the car.

Lou, up on the shoulder, jerks his thumb.

Marge looks around at the road.

Marge is studying the ground.

Marge suddenly doubles over, putting her head between her

knees down near the snow.

She gets up, sweeping snow from her knees.

BY THE STATE TROOPER'S CAR

Marge's prowler is parked nearby.

Marge is on her hands and knees by a body down in the ditch,

again looking at footprints in the snow.  She calls up to

the road:

DOWN IN THE DITCH

In the foreground is the head of the state trooper, facing

us.  Peering at it from behind, still on her hands and

knees, is Marge.

She gets up, clapping the snow off her hands, and climbs out

of the ditch.

She is looking at the prowler, which still idles on the

shoulder.

INT. PROWLER

Marge is driving; Lou sits next to her.

He looks at his notebook.

Lou gazes out the window, thinking.

THE ROAD

The police car enters with a whoosh and hums down a straight-

ruled empty highway, cutting a landscape of flat and perfect

white.

EMBERS FAMILY RESTAURANT

Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit in a booth, sipping

coffee.  Outside the window, snow falls from a gunmetal sky.

He saws a finger under his nose.

THE CASHIER

She rings up two dollars forty.

PARKING LOT

Snow continues to fall.  Jerry and Stan stand bundled in

their parkas and galoshes near a row of beached vehicles.

Wade sits behind the wheel of an idling Lincoln, waiting for

Stan.

Jerry pounds his mittened hands together against the cold.

There is a tap at the horn from Wade, and Stan gets into the

Lincoln.

The Lincoln spits snow as it grinds out of the lot and

fishtails out onto the boulevard.

SCOTTY'S BEDROOM

Scotty lies on the bed, weeping.  Jerry enters and perches

uncomfortably on the edge of his bed.

Scott snorfles and sits up.

Scotty starts to weep again.  Jerry stares down at his lap.

EXT. CABIN

It is a lakeside cabin surrounded by white.  A brown Ciera

with dealer plates is pulling into the drive.

Grimsrud climbs out of the passenger seat as Carl climbs out

of the driver's.  Grimsrud opens the back door and, with an

arm on her elbow, helps Jean out.  She has her hands tied

behind her and a black hood over her head.

With a cry, she swings her elbow out of Grimsrud's grasp and

lurches away across the front lawn.  Grimsrud moves to

retrieve her but Carl, grinning, lays a hand on his

shoulder.

They both look out at the front lawn, Grimsrud

expressionless, Carl smiling.

With muffled cries, the hooded woman lurches across the

unbroken snow, staggering this way and that, stumbling on

the uneven terrain.

She stops, stands still, her hooded head swaying.

She lurches out in an arbitrary direction.  Going downhill,

she reels, staggers, and falls face-first into the snow,

weeping.

Grimsrud, still expressionless, breaks away from Carl's

restraining hand to retrieve her.

BRAINERD POLICE HEADQUARTERS

We track behind Marge as she makes her way across the floor,

greeting various officers.  She holds a small half-full

paper sack.

Beyond her we see a small glassed-in cublcle.  Norm sits at

the desk inside with a box lunch spread out in front of him.

There is lettering on the cubicle's glass door:  BRAINERD

PD. CHIEF GUNDERSON.

Marge enters and sits behind the desk, detaching her walkie-

talkie from her utility belt to accomodate the seat.

She slides the paper sack toward him.

He looks inside.

The bottom of the sack is full of fat, crawling earthworms.

She starts eating.

He leans over and kisses her.

Lou enters.

EXT. STRIPPER CLUB

Marge's prowler is parked in an otherwise empty lot.  Snow

drifts down.

INT. STRIPPER CLUB

Marge sits talking with two young women at one end of an

elevated dance platform.  The club, not yet open for

business, is deserted.

EXT. LAKESIDE CABIN

It is now dusk.  The brown Ciera with dealer plates still

sits in the drive.

INT. CABIN

We track in on Jean Lundegaard, who sits tied in a chair

with the black hood still over her head.  As we track in, we

hear inarticulate cursing, intermittent banging and loud

static.

We track in on Gaear Grimsrud, who sits smoking a cigarette

and expressionlessly gazing offscreen.

We track in on Carl Showalter, who stands over an old black-

and-white television.  It plays nothing but snow.  Carl is

banging on it as he mutters:

Each "dammit" brings a pound of his fist on the TV.

With one last bang we cut:

BACK TO THE TELEVISION SET

In extreme close-up an insect is lugging a worm.

A pull back from the screen reveals that we are in Marge's

house.

Marge and Norm are watching television in bed.  From the TV

we hear insects chirring.

After a long beat, silence except for the TV, Marge murmurs,

still looking at the set:

Also looking at the TV:

Marge rolls over and Norm continues to watch.

We hold.

BLACK

Hold.

A snowflake drops through the black.

Another flake.

It starts snowing.

BRAINERD MAIN STREET

The lone traffic light blinks slowly, steadily, red.  Snow

sifts down.  There is no other movement.

PAUL BUNYAN

We are looking up at the bottom-lit statue.  Snow falls.

HIGH SHOT OF MARGE'S HOUSE

Snow drops away.

HIGH SHOT IN MARGE'S BEDROOM

The bedroom is dark.  Norm is snoring.

The phone rings.

Marge gropes in the dark.

Marge props herself up next to the still-sleeping Norm.

GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE

Jerry is on the sales floor, showing a customer a vehicle.

JERRY'S CUBICLE

He sits in and picks up his phone.

A beat.

Jerry sits dumbly.  The voice solemnly repeats:

Click.

Jerry slams down the phone, which immediately rings.  He

angrily snatches it up.

WIDE ON THE CUBICLE

We are looking at Jerry's cubicle from across the showroom.

Noise muted by distance, we watch Jerry slam down the

reciever, rise to his feet, fling the phone to the floor,

raise his desk blotter high over his head with pens and

pencils rolling off it and slam it onto his desktop.

He stands for a moment, hands on hips, glaring.

He stoops and picks up the phone, places it back on the

desktop, starts picking up the pens and pencils.

TRACK

On steam-table bins of food, each identified by a plaque:

BEEF STROGANOFF, SWEDISH MEATBALLS, BROILED TORSK, CHICKEN

FLORENTINE.

A complementary track shows two rays being pushed along a

buffet line, piled high with many foods.

MARGE AND NORM AT A TABLE

They sit next to each other at a long cafateria-style

Formica table, silently eating.

A hip with a hissing walkie-talkie enters frame.

He goes back to his food.

Gary hands her a flimsy.  Marge takes it with one hand and

looks, her other hand frozen with a forkful of food.

Norm, who has been eating steadily throughout, looks over at

Marge with mild interest.  He stares for a beat as he

finishes chewing, and them swallows and says:

KITCHEN OF LUNDEGAARD HOUSE

Jerry, Wade, and Stan Grossman sit around the kitchen table.

It is night.  The scene is harshly toplit by a hanging

fixture.  On the table are the remains of coffee and a

cinammon filbert ring.

He points at a briefcase.

THE DOWNTOWN RADISSON HOTEL

Marge is at the reception desk.

The clerk types into a computer console.

LOBBY CORNER

Marge is on a public phone.

A GREEN FREEWAY SIGN

Through a windshield we see a sign for the MINNEAPOLIS

INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT.

ROOFTOP PARKING LOT

The brown Ciera enters and drives lazy S-curves around the

few snow-covered cars parked on the roof of the lot.

It stops by one car and Carl emerges.  He quickly scans the

lot, then kneels in the snow at the back of the parked car

and starts unscrewing its license plate.

EXIT BOOTH

Carl pulls up and hands the attendant his ticket.

The attendant frowns uncomprehendingly at the ticket.

The attendant is still puzzled.

A car behind beeps.  Carl glances back, starts digging for

money.

The attendant doesn't say anything.

He is peeling off one dollar bills.

GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE

Jerry is staring up, mouth agape, at the underside of a car

on a hydraulic lift.  Bewildered, he looks about, then asks

a mechanic passing by, his voice raised over the din of the

shop.

The mechanic points.

Jerry looks.

Marge and Shep face each other at the other end of the floor

in a grimy and cluttered glassed-in cubicle.

Marge and Shep silently talk.

Jerry stares, swallows.

INSIDE THE CUBICLE

Shep is shaking his head.

Shep says nothing.

Shep stares at her.

JERRY'S OFFICE

Jerry is worriedly pacing behind his desk.  At a noise he

looks up.

Marge has stuck her head in the door.

Marge plops into the chair opposite him.

Jerry stares at her, his mouth open.

As Marge rises, Jerry looks blankly down at the papers on

the desk in front of him.

He looks up at Marge's retreating back.  He looks back down

at the papers.  He looks over at the phone.

he picks up the phone and dials four digits.

HOTEL BAR

Marge enters.  She looks around the bar, a rather

characterless, lowlit meeting place for business people.

It is a bald, paunching man of about Marge's age, rising

from a booth halfway back.  His features are broad,

friendly, Asian-American.

He approaches somewhat carefully, as if on his second drink.

They hug and head back toward the booth.

A waitress meets them at the table.

Again she glances about.

He is sliding out of his side of the booth and easing in

next to Marge.

He holds up his drink.

Marge clinks it.

He is weeping.

CARLTON CELEBRITY ROOM

Carl Showalter is sitting at a small table with a tarty-

looking blonde in a low-cut gown.  Each holds a drink.

Carl looks around.

The reverse shows a disappearing waiter and the backs of

many, many people sitting at tables between us and the very

distant stage.  Jose Feliciano, very small, performs on a

spotlit stool.  The acoustics are poor.

Carl grimaces.

A DIRTY BEDROOM

Carl is humping the escort.

We hear the door burst open.

The escort is grabbed and flung out of bed.

Shep slaps him hard, forehand, backhand.

He hauls him up -

- punches him and flings him away.

Carl hits a sofa and we see his bare legs disappear as he

flips back over it.

Shep enters frame to circle the sofa and kick at Carl behind

it.

There is a knock at the door.

Shep strides to the door, flings it open.

A man in boxer shorts stands in the doorway.

Shep hits him twice, then grabs both of his ears and starts

banging his head against the wall.

The hooker runs by, clutching her clothes, and Shep kicks

her in the ass as she passes.

He spins and goes back into the apartment.

Carl is hopping desperately into his pants.

After hitting him several times, Shep yanks Carl's belt out

of his dangling pants and strangles him with it.  Carl

gurgles.  Shep knees Carl repeatedly, then dumps him onto

the floor and starts whipping him with the buckle end of the

belt.

CHAIN RESTAURANT PHONE BOOTH

Carl listens to the phone ring at the other end.  His face

is deeply bruised and cut.

Finally, through the phone...

JERRY'S KITCHEN

Jerry is at the kitchen phone.  Through the door to the

dining room we see Wade picking up an extension.

The line goes dead.

A door slams offscreen.

EXT. HOUSE

Wade, briefcase in hand, gets into his Cadillac, slams the

door and peels out.

INT. CAR

Wade's jaw works as he glares out at traffic.  He mumbles to

himself as he drives.

He pulls out a gun, cracks the barrel, peers in.

JERRY'S HOUSE

Jerry sits in the foyer, trying to pull on pair of galoshes.

Scotty's voice comes from upstairs:

Thunk! - his first boot goes on.

RADISSON

Marge sits on the bed in her hotel room, shoes off,

massaging her feet.  The phone is pressed to her ear, and

through it, we hear ringing.

MILLE LACS LAKE

It is late evening, blowing storm.  A leisurely pan across

the bleak gray expanse finds a little hut in the middle of

the frozen lake with a pickup truck parked next to it.

INT. HUT

Norm has a cellular phone to his ear.  His feet are

stretched out to an electric heater.  The interior is bathed

in soft orange light.

DAYTON-RADISSON RAMP

The top, open, level.  Snow blows.  A car sits idling.

Another car pulls onto the roof.  It creeps over to the

parked car and stops.  It continues to idle as its door

opens and Wade steps out, carrying the briefcase.

The door of the other car bangs open and Carl bounces out.

He pulls out a gun and fires into Wade's gut.

He is on the pavement, clutching at his gut.  Snow swirls.

He bends down next to Wade to pick up the briefcase.

Wade brings out his gun and fires at Carl's head, close by.

Carl stumbles and falls back, and then stands up again.  His

jaw is gouting blood.

One hand pressed to his jaw, he fires down at Wade several

times.  Blood streams through the hand pressed to his jaw.

He pockets the gun, picks up the briefcase one-handed,

flings it into his car, gets in, peels out.

DOWN RAMP

Carl screams down the ramp.  He takes a corner at high speed

and swerves, just missing Jerry in his Olds on his way to

the top.

INT. JERRY'S CAR

Jerry recovers from the near miss and continues up.

EXIT BOOTH

Carl squeals to a halt at the gate, still pressing his hand

to his bleeding jaw.

RAMP ROOF

Jerry pulls to a halt next to Wade's idling Cadillac.  He

gets out and walks slowly to Wade's body, prostrate in the

swirling snow.

He bends down, picks Wade up by the armpits and drags him

over to the back of the Cadillac.  He drops Wade's body,

walks to the driver's side of the car, pulls the keys and

walks back to pop the trunk.  He wrestles Wade's body into

the trunk, slams it shut and walks back to the scene of the

shooting.

He kicks at the snow with his galoshed feet, trying to hide

the fresh bloodstains.

EXIT BOOTH

Jerry approaches in the Cadillac.

The wooden gate barring the exit has been broken away.  The

booth is empty.

Jerry eases toward the street, looking over at the booth as

he passes.

Inside the booth we see the awkwardly angled leg of a

prostrate body.

EXT. JERRY'S HOUSE

The car pulls into the driveway.

FOYER

Jerry enters and sits on the foyer chair to take off his

galoshes.

Thoonk - the first boot comes off.

CARL'S CAR

Carl mumbles as he drives, underlit by the dim dash lights,

one hand now holding a piece of rag to his shredded jaw.

ROAD

Carl's car roars into frame, violently swirling the snow.

Its red tail lights fishtail away.

FADE OUT

HOLD IN BLACK

HARD CUT TO:  BRIGHT - LOOKING THROUGH A WINDSHIELD

It is a starky sunny day.  We are cruising down a street of

humble lookalike houses.

We pan right as we draw toward one house in particular.  In

its driveway a man in a hooded parka shovels snow.  He

notices the approaching car and gives its driver a wave.

The driver is Gary, the Brainderd police officer.  He gives

a finger-to-the-head salute and pulls over.

OUTSIDE

Gary slams his door shut and the other man plants his shovel

in the snow.

The two men caucus the driveway without shaking hands and

without standing particularly close.  They stand stiffly,

arms down at their sides and breath streaming out of their

parka hoods.  Each has an awkward leaning-away posture, head

drawn slightly back and chin tucked in, to keep his face

from protruding into the cold.

CLOSE ON CARL SHOWALTER

In his car, now parked, one hand holding the rag pressed to

his mangled jaw.  He is staring down at something in the

front seat next to him.

His other hand holds open the briefcase.  It has money

inside - a lot of money.

Carl unfreezes, takes out one of the bank-wrapped wads and

looks at it.

He paws through the money in the briefcase to get a feeling

for the amount.

Excited, he counts out a bundle of bills and tosses it onto

the back seat.

He starts to take the rag away from his chin but the layer

pressed against his face sticks, its loose weave bound to

his skin by clotted blood.

He pulls very gently and winces as blood starts to flow

again.

He carefully tears the rag in half so that only a bit of it

remains adhering to his jaw.

EXT. CAR

It is pulled over to the side of an untraveled road.  THe

door opens and Carl emerges with the briefcase.

He slogs through the snow, down a gulley and up the

embankment to a barbed-wire fence.  He kneels at one of the

fence posts and frantically digs into the snow with his bare

hands, throws in the briefcase and covers it back up.

He stands and tries to beat the circulation back into his

red, frozen hands.

He looks to the right.

A regular line of identical fence posts stretches away

against unblemished white.

He looks to the left.

A regular line of identical fence posts stretches away

against unblemished white.

He looks at the fence post in front of him.

He looks about the snowy vastness for a marker.  Finding

none, he kicks the fence post a couple of times, failing to

scar or tilt it, then hurriedly plants a couple of sicks up

against the post.

He bends down, scoops up a handful of snow, presses it

against his wounded jaw, and lopes back to the idling car.

HOTEL ROOM

Marge has a packed overnight back sitting on the unmade bed.

She is ready to leave, already wearing her parka, but is on

the phone.

MARGE'S CAR

Marge drives, gazing out at the road.

MARGE AT A DRIVE-THROUGH

She leans out of her open window and yells at the order

panel:

MARGE AT THE GUSTAFSON OLDS GARAGE

She sits in the lot, eating a breakfast sandwich.

JERRY LUNDEGAARD'S OFFICE

Jerry is at his desk using a blunt pencil to enter numbers

onto a form.  Beneath the form is a piece of carbon paper

and beneath that another form copy, which Jerry periodically

checks.  The carbon-copy form shows thick smudgy, illegible

entries.

Jerry hums nervously.

Glass rattles as someone taps at his door.

Jerry looks up and freezes, mouth hanging open, brow knit

with worry.

Marge sticks her head in the door.

She starts to enter.

But she is already sitting into the chair opposite with a

sigh of relieved weight.

There is a silent beat.

He trails off into silence.

Jerry stares at her.

Jerry explodes:

He is getting angrily off his feet.

He is yanking his parka from a hook behind the opened door

and grabbing a pair of galoshes.

Jerry has the parka slung over one arm and the galoshes

pinched in his hand.

He stamps out the door.

Marge stares.

After a long moment her stare breaks.  She glances idly

around the office.

There is a framed picture facing away from her on the

desktop.  She turns it to face her.  It is Scotty, holding

an accordion.  There is another picture of Jean.

Marge looks at it, looks around, for some reason, at the

ceiling.

She looks at a trophy shelf on the wall behind her.

She fiddles idly with a pencil.  She pulls a clipboard

toward her.  It holds a form from the General Motors Finance

Corporation.

She looks idly around.  Her look abruptly locks.

Jerry is easing his car around the near corner of the

building.

Marge's voice is flat with dismay:

She grabs the phone and punches in a number.

Jerry makes a left turn into traffic.

POLICE OFFICER

We are looking across a steam table at a man in blue.  He

moves slowly to the right, pushing his tray along a

cafeteria line.  Behind him, in the depth of the room, is an

eating area of long Formica tables at which sit a mix of

uniformed and civilian-clothed police and staff.

We are listening to an offscreen woman's voice.

The woman is entering frame sliding a tray.  Marge enters

behind her, sliding her own.  We move laterally with them as

they slowly make their way along the line.

Detective Sibert pulls an accordion of plastic picture

sleeves from her purse to show Marge.

They have reached the end of the cafeteria line.  With a nod

to the cashier, Detective Sibert indicates hers and Marge's

trays.

GAEAR GRIMSRUD

He sits eating a Swanson's TV dinner from a TV tray he has

set up in front of an easy chair.

He watches the old black-and-white TV set whose image - it

might be a game show - is still heavily ghosting and

diffused by snow.  The audio crackles with interference.

Despite the impenetrability of its image, it holds

Grimsrud's complete attention.

At the sound of the front door opening, Grimsrud looks up.

Carl enters, his face suppurating and raw.

He reacts to Grimsrud's wordless look with a grotesque

laugh.

He glances around.

Jean sits slumped in a straight-backed chair facing the

wall.  Her hooded head, resting on her chin, is motionless.

There is blood on the facing wall.

He shakes his head.

He is plunking down eight bank-wrapped bundles on the table.

He makes one pile, pockets the rest.

He slaps keys down on the table.

Carl looks at him.

Grimsrud looks sourly up.  There is a beat.  Finally:

Carl waits for an argument, but only gets the steady sour

look.

Carl pulls out a gun.

A beat.  Carl returns Grimsrud's stare.

Grimsrud says nothing.

A beat.

Disgusted, Carl pockets the gun and heads for the door.

OUTSIDE

We are pulling Carl as he walks toward the car.  Behind him

we see the cabin door opening.  Carl turns, reacting to the

sound.

Grimsrud is bounding out wearing mittens and a red hunter's

cap, but no overcoat.  He is holding an ax.

Carl fumbles in his pocket for his gun.

Grimsrud swings overhand, burying the ax in Carl's neck.

MARGE

In her cruiser, on her two-way.  Through it we hear Lou's

voice, heavily filtered:

Marge is peering to one side as she drives, looking through

the bare trees that border the road on a declivity that runs

down to a large frozen lake.

We hear, distant but growing louder, harsh engine noise, as

of a chainsaw or lawnmower.

We are slowing as we approach a short driveway leading down

to a cabin.  Parked in front is the brown Cutlass Ciera.

Marge is straining to look.  The power-tool noise is louder

here but still muffled, its source not yet visible.

ROAD EXTERIOR

Marge pulls her prowler over some distance past the cabin.

She gets out, zips up her khaki parka and pulls up its fur-

lined hood.

For a moment, she stands listening to the muffled roar of

the power tool.  Then, with one curved arm half pressing

against, half supporting her belly, she takes slow, gingerly

steps down the slope, through the deep snow, through the

trees angling toward the cabin and the source of the

grinding noise.

She slogs from tree to tree, letting each one support her

downhill-leaning weight for a moment before slogging to the

next.

The roar grows louder.  Marge stands panting by one tree,

her breath vaporizing out of her snorkel hood.  She squints

down toward the cabin's back lot.

A tall man with his back to us, wearing a red plaid quilted

jacket and a hunting cap with earflaps, is laboring over a

large power tool which his body blocks from view.

Marge advances.

The man is forcing downward something which engages the

roaring power tool and makes harsh spluttering noises.

The man is Grimsrud, his nose red and eyes watering from the

cold, hatflaps pulled down over his ears.  His breath steams

as he sourly goes about his work, both hands pressing down a

shod foot, as it if were the shaft of a butter churn.

The roar is very loud.

Marge slogs down to the next tree, panting, looking.

Grimsrud forces more of the leg into the machine, which we

can now see sprays small wet chunks out the bottom.

Marge's eyes shift.

A large dark form lies in the snow next to Grimsrud.

Grimsrud works on, eyes watering.  With a grunt he bends

down out of frame and then re-enters holding a thick log.

He uses it to force the leg deeper into the machine.

Marge is advancing.  She holds a gun extended toward

Grimsrud, who is still turned away.

Grimsrud rubs his nose with the back of his hand.

Marge closes in, grimacing.

Grimsrud's back strains as he puts his weight into the log

that pushes down into the machine.

The dark shape in the snow next to his side is the rest of

Carl Showalter's body.

Marge has drawn to within twenty yards.  When she bellows it

sounds hollow and distant, her voice all but eaten up by the

roar of the power tool.

Startled, Grimsrud scowls.  He turns to face her.

He stares.

Marge bellows again:

Conscious of the noise, she shows with a twist of her

shoulder the armpatch insignia.

Grimsrud stares.

With a quick twist, he reaches back for the log, hurls it at

Marge and then starts running away.

Marge twists her body sideways, shielding herself.

No need - the heavy log travels perhaps ten yards and lands

in the snow several feet short of her.

Grimsrud pants up the hill - slow going through the deep

snow.

Behind him:

She fires in the air.

She lowers the gun and carefully sighs.

She fires.

Grimsrud still slogs up the hill - a miss.

Marge sights again.

She fires again.

Grimsrud pitches forward.  He mutters in Swedish as he

reaches down to clutch at his wounded leg.

Marge walks toward him, gun trained on him as her other hand

reaches under her parka and gropes around her waist.

It comes out with a pair of handcuffs, which she opens with

a snap of the wrist.

THE CRUISER

Marge drives.  Grimsrud sits in the back seat, hands cuffed

behind him.

For a long moment there, he is quiet - only engine hum and

the periodic clomp of wheels on pavement seams - as Marge

grimly shakes her head.

She glances up in the rear-view mirror.

Grimsrud, cheeks sunk, eyes hollow, looks sourly out at the

road.

Marge shakes her head.

At length:

Grimsrud's head bobs with bumps on the road; otherwise he is

motionless, reactionless, scowling and gazing out.

No response.

Marge, gazing forward, seems to be talking to herself.

We hear distant sirens.

She glances up in the rear-view mirror.

Grimsrud's hollow eyes stare out.

The sirens are getting louder.  Marge pulls over.

She leans forward to the dash to give two short signalling

WHOOPS on her siren.

She turns on her flashers.

She leans back with a creak and jangle of utilities.

She stares forward, shakes her head.  We hear the dull click

of her flashers.

Outside it is snowing.  The sky, the earth, the road - all

white.

A squad car, gumballs spinning, punches through the white.

It approaches in slow motion.

An ambulance punches through after it.

Another squad car.

FADE IN:

HIGH AND WIDE ON A SHABBY MOTEL

It stands next to a highway on a snowy, windslept plain.

One or two cars dot the parking lot along with an idling

police cruiser.

MOTEL ROOM DOORWAY

We are looking over the shoulders of two uniformed policemen

who stand on either side of the door, their hands resting

lightly on their holstered sidearms.  One of them raps at

the door.

A title fades in:  OUTSIDE OF BISMARK, NORTH DAKOTA

After a pause, muffled through the door:

We hear a clatter from inside.

One of the policemen unholsters his gun and nods to someone

whose back enters - a superintendent holding a ring of keys.

This man turns a key in the door and then stands away.

The two policemen, guns at the ready, bang into the motel

room.

The rough hand-held camera rushes in behind them as the two

men give the room a two-handed sweep with their guns.

The room is empty.

Cop one indicates the open bathroom door.

The two men charge the bathroom, belts jingling, guns at the

ready, jittery camera behind them rushing to keep pace.

A man in boxer shorts is halfway out the bathroom window.

The policemen holster their guns and charge the window, and

drag Jerry Lundegaard back into the room.

His flesh quivers as he thrashes and keens in short,

piercing screams.

The cops wrestle him to the floor but his palsied thrashing

continues.  The policemen struggle to restrain him.

Cop One pinions Jerry's arms to the floor and Jerry bursts

into uncontrolled sobbing.

Jerry sobs and screams.

A BEDROOM

We are square on Norm, who sits in bed watching television.

After a long beat, Marge enters frame in a nightie and

climbs into bed, with some effort.

Norm reaches for her hand as both watch the television.

At length Norm speaks, but keeps his eyes on the TV.

Marge looks at him.

Marge looks at him, waiting for more, but Norm's eyes stay

fixed on the television.

Norm tries to suppress a smile of pleasure.

Her eyes go back to the TV.

Norm murmurs:

Both of them are watching the TV as Norm reaches out to rest

a hand on top of her stomach.

Marge absently rests her own hand on top of his.

Hold; fade out.

