MAIN TITLES

IT'S SILENT. A BEAT...AND AN EXPLOSION OF SOUND.  A HOUSEHOLD

IN THE MORNING. KIDS GETTING READY FOR SCHOOL. CLOCK RADIOS.

KITCHEN APPLIANCES. SHOWERS. FIGHTING. PEOPLE YELLING. DOG

BARKING. APPLIANCES BUZZING. CAR HORNS. IT SOUNDS JUST LIKE

YOUR HOUSE DID. STREAMS OF ROCK'N ROLL FADE IN AND OUT. HUEY

LEWIS TO LIONEL RITCHIE TO HUSKER DU. SURROUND MAKES IT FEEL

LIKE YOU'RE IN THE ROOM. AN AURAL TOUR OF A HOUSE ON A

SCHOOL MORNING. BEGINING IN THE KITCHEN AND MOVING UPSTAIRS.

The house falls dead SILENT. We hear footsteps thundering

through the house. A TENSE STRAIN OF MUSIC FADES UP.

Todd screams. We hear the sound of Tom's footsteps running

through the kitchen, down the hall, up the stairs, up the

hallway. A door open.

An eighteen year-old boy. He's staring lifelessly at CAMERA.

His mouth's open. His eyes are bugged-out. His tongue is fat

and dry in his mouth. He's laying in bed, on his side.

Ferris' parents, TOM and JOYCE BUELLER are standing at

bedside. They're in their late forties, early fifties.

Handsome, upper-middle class parents. They're both dressed

for work.

His lifeless eyes blink.

Tom bends down and touches Ferris' forehead.

Tom takes one of Ferris' hands.

Ferris exhales loudly. He tries to speak but all he can

manage is a choked gasp.

Ferris tries again.

He starts to get up. Joyce gently pushes him back down.

He's gripped by a seizure. His body stiffens and he chokes.

His older sister, JEANIE, walks into the room. She's dressed

for school. She's cute and stuck-up. A major pill.

She glares at Ferris. Her eyes are mascara and vengence. She

slips out of the room. Ferris' brother, TODD and sister,

KIMBERLY peek into the room.

She turns sharply and exits.

Todd backs out of the room.

He acknowledges Tom with a pathetic flutter of his eyelids.

She strokes Ferris' hair.

She leans down and kisses his forehead. Tom pats his

shoulder.

Ferris lets out a wheeze. His glassy eyes follow his parents

to the door.

They close the door. The lock clicks. Ferris' eyes shift

from the door to CAMERA. A sly, little smile crawls across

his lips.

The MTV theme music ROARS IN.

The TV at the foot of Ferris' bed. The MTV logo is playing.

Ferris yanks open the drapes. The pall of the sickroom

disappears in the brilliant glow of morning sunlight.

He turns from the window.

He flips on his stereo and fills the room with the MTV

broadcast. A NEW SONG begins.

He equalizes the sound a little.

He exits into the hallway.

Ferris walks into the bathroom. It's littered with Jean's

debris. He turns on the shower water.

He bends down OUT OF FRAME as he loses his briefs. He pops

up.

He steps into the shower. Through the pebbled glass of the

shower door we see Ferris' outline.

Inside the shower. Ferris' hair is standing straight up.

It's moulded into a fin with shampoo.

He turns the shower head around and uses it like a

microphone.

Ferris comes out of the bathroom with a towel wrapped around

his waist. He's drying his hair with another of a different

color.

He opens a linen closet and tosses the towel in it.

He passes CAMERA and goes into his room.

Ferris tosses the towel he's dried hair with on the bed.

He opens his door.

The door opens and Ferris rifles through his shirts.

He finds a shirt he likes. He steps back from the closet and

puts it on. He drops the towel.

He walks across the room to his dresser. He opens his

underwear drawer. There's an old model of a submarine on the

top of the dresser. He picks it up.

He pulls out a pair of underwear. He gets dressed as he

speaks.

He looks at himself in the mirror on the back of his closet

door. He doesn't like what he's wearing. He continues his

speech as he disrobes.

Ferris comes down the stairs. He's wearing a completely

different outfit.

Ferris comes into the kitchen and crosses to the

refrigerator.

He takes a sip out of a bottle of orange juice.

He crosses to the pantry.

He emerges from the pantry with a handful of Oreos.

Ferris walks in and flops down in an armchair.

He reaches over and picks up the telephone. He sets it in

his lap.

He punches out a number.

He remote controls the TV on.

A sleek, modern house on a couple of deeply wooded acres. A

prime house in a prime location. A telephone rings OVER.

It's a dark, dreary sick room. Shades drawn, floor strewn

with used tissues, nightstand a still-life of over the

counter remedies. A high school boy, CAMERON FRYE, is laying

in bed. We don't see his face, only a silhouette with a

thermometer sticking out his mouth. U2's SUNDAY BLOODY

SUNDAY is playing. He's mumbling random words.

The phone rings. His hand reaches back and hits the speaker

phone button.

Cameron takes the thermometer out of his mouth.

Ferris is sprawled out in the chair.

Cameron's insistant.

Ferris disconnects. Cameron slowly hangs up the phone.

The phone rings again. Cameron hits the speaker button.

Ferris hangs up.

We hear roll call as CAMERA MOVES ACROSS the tile floor. A

shoe's POV.

CAMERA enters a classroom. It travels past a teacher's Hush

Puppies and heads up an aisle of desk past dirty yellow

Reebocks, rotting Air Jordans, scuffed heels, pristine

loafers...

CAMERA reaches the last desk and rises slowly to reveal that

it's empty.

WOUND-OUT CAR ENGINES COME UP LOUD.

THE ROAD WARRIOR is playing on video cassette. The big chase

at the end.

INT. FAMILY ROOM. FERRIS

He's sitting in the arm chair pretending it's Humongous' war

wagon. He's wearing a hockey mash. He's steering. He reaches

down and grabs an imaginary nitrous oxide valve.

CU. TV

Humongous reaches down and grabs a real nitrous oxide valve.

He gives it a twist.

CU. FERRIS

He throws himself back against the chair.

CU. TV

The force of the rapid acceleration of his vehicle throws

Humongous back in his seat.

CU. FERRIS

He bounces himself in the chair to simulate the bumpy high

speed ride.

CU. TV

The was wagon hurtles down the road.

CU. FERRIS

He rears back in horror.

CU. TV

The war wagon is heading for a head-on collision with the

tanker truck.

CU. FERRIS

Arms outstretched, head thrown back, braced for collision.

CU. TV

IMPACT!

MOZART COMES UP.

Outside a bedroom window. A flowering crabtree branch.

Petite pink flowers. WE PULL BACK FROM THE WINDOW INTO THE

ROOM. It's Jeanie's room. A pink and powder blue pig pen.

Clothes everywhere, make-up, books, records. Ferris is

sitting on her bed going through a purse.

He comes up with a crumpled dollar bill.

He comes up with a five.

He holds up a twenty and snaps it. PINK FLOYD'S "MONEY"

COMES UP.

The song plays as Ferris digs through the sofa cushions.

CU. SOFA

Ferris extracts a sticky quarter from a crevice.

Ferris is going through his father's pants pockets. Another

crumpled bill surfaces.

A couple of stiff, hard, bleached singles that have gone

through the wash lay on top of the washer. A hand scoops

them up.

An obvious gift from a grandparent. A U.S. Mint proof set. A

ten, a five and a single enclosed in a lucite frame. A

screwdriver tip wedges between the two pieces of Lucite and

pops them apart. A hand peels the bills off the backing.

Hands ripping through the kitchen junk drawer. Locating a

dollar bill.

The familiar blue collector's album. One-by-one, the

quarters are being popped out of their slots.

The dusty, dirty contents of the bag are emptied on the

floor. Fingers pick a dime out of a matted wad of filth.

It's being shaken furiously.

It's a child's card. It's slowly opened to reveal a crisp,

new five.

The door opens and Ferris thrusts his hands into the pockets

of the coats. He comes up with a ball of Kleenex. A roll of

Tums. A squirt gun. Then a modest wad of bills. His face

lights up as he counts out the cash. He closes the door.

Ferris' face appears between the bed and the floor. His arm

reaches out for a small metal bank hidden under the bed.

It's on a work bench. An awl is driven in between the door

and the jamb. It pries the door open. Inside are trading

cards, a charred doll's head, a Zippo lighter and, finally,

a five dollar bill.

Ferris is on his hands and knees under the kitchen table.

Ferris lifts the leg and removes a quarter that's been used

to balance the table.

Ferris stands up and pockets the quarter.

A shower of coins and bills rain down on the sheets. The

SONG ENDS.

A suburban realty company. A cute little building in town.

Joyce is behind a desk. Across from her are two WOMEN.

They're also real estate agents.

Joyce's phone intercom buzzes. She take the call.

Her eyes open wide with alarm.

A modern, suburban high school.

It's a passing period. The hall is clogged with students.

A SECRETARY is at work at her desk. We hear the dean inside

the office.

It reads, EDWARD R. ROONEY. DEAD OF STUDENTS. The dean's

feet are up on the desk, behind the sign. Moderately priced

dress shoes.

INT. OFFICE. CU. DEAN

ED ROONEY is sitting behind his desk. He's tough, clean and

straight as an I-beam. Short, neatly combed hair, suit and

tie. He's toying with a pencil. He's confident to the point

of arrogance.

Behind him is a computer terminal. He removes his feet from

the desk and turns in his swivel chair.

CU. COMPUTER MONITOR

The monitor on Rooney's desk displays Ferris' records.

Under DAYS MISSED we see a number 9 suddenly change to a

number 2.

INT. OFFICE

Rooney turns to the monitor. He reads off the screen.

He looks closer at the screen.

Ferris is at his Macintosh computer. He has his record up

on the screen.

She's still on the phone with Rooney.

MUSIC BLASTS. SOLO GUITAR.

CU. SPEAKER

The grille cloth is throbbing.

CU. LED METERS

The meters on the amplifier are totally in the danger zone.

CU. TV MONITOR

We see Ferris in his room with a guitar around his neck.

He's playing.

CU. VIDEO CAMERA

A home video camera is capturing Ferris on tape.

He's sitting on the edge of the bed buttoning his shirt. He

sighs deeply and fall back on the bed.

Jeanie is at her locker during a passing period. A

GIRLFRIEND comes up to her.

Jeanie stares incredulously at the girl.

She smiles and exits. Jeanie cocks her head in bewilderment.

She kicks her locker shut.

He's in bed on the phone.

A FRESHMAN BOY is on the pay phone. A couple of his BUDDIES

are standing at his side waiting anxiously for news.

Second boy shakes his head, no.

The boy snatches a passing GIRL.

He hands her the phone.

Rooney's comparing his computer monitor to hard copy. His

SECRETARY is standing over his shoulder.

Rooney stares at her for a long beat.

Rooney looks up at her with a proud smile.

He unconsciously does an Eastwood squint.

It's a glorious late spring day. A florist's truck drives

past the house.

He's on the telephone. As he speaks he does a little

MacPainting on his MacIntosh. A Modigliani nude.

Cameron's back in bed.

He's growing weary of Cameron's wimpishness.

The other phone line rings.

He puts Cameron on hold. He clears his throat and answers

the second line. He sounds like he's on his last breath.

A LaSalle Street office tower.

He's behind his desk. Nice office. Two windows. Herman

Miller desk and chair.

A closer view of the rude drawing Ferris is making.

INT. FERRIS' ROOM

He leans back from the monitor and sips a Coke.

He puts his father on hold.

He disconnects and gets his father back. He switches back to

his sick voice.

Ferris reaches out and hits a key on his computer. The

screen dumps the drawing.

CU. COMPUTER SCREEN

A message is flashing: "TRANSMITTING DATA".

INT. FERRIS' ROOM

He turns away from the computer and puts his feet up on the

desk. He lights a cigarette.

Ferris mouths Tom's words as he says them.

Ferris' drawing suddenly appears on the billboard.

Pedestrians stop to look.

He blows a smoke ring.

Ferris points a finger in the air as a cue to his father.

He nods.

Ferris smiles. He looks at CAMERA. He's gotten exactly what

he wants.

He hangs up. Ferris sighs.

He turns his desk chair around and gets up.

He's sitting behind the wheel of his car.

He cuts the engine.

He sits for half a beat.

He sighs and restarts the engine. Another beat.

Another beat. He stops the engine. A CRASH OF HORROR MUSIC.

Hands curl around the drawer pulls. The drawer is opened

slowly, ominously. The hands lift a sweater out. A HERALDIC

STING as we see a men's magazine beneath the sweater.

INT. FERRIS' ROOM

He takes out the magazine. He leafs through the pages for

the pictorials as he speaks.

He exits the room.

Ferris comes out of his room and heads down the hallway.

He goes into the bathroom. We HEAR THE TOILET SEAT SLAM

DOWN.

A stunningly beautiful girl, SLOANE PETERSON, is sitting at

her desk in a history class. She's staring out the window as

a tweedy MALE TEACHER delivers a dry, dusty lecture.

The classroom door opens and the school NURSE walks in. For

a moment, the teacher thinks she's come in because she heard

him sneeze. She crosses to him and whispers in his ear.

SLOANE

She, like the others, watches the nurse curiously.

INT. CLASSROOM. TEACHER AND NURSE

The teacher's face drops as he's delivered an obvious piece

of disturbing news. He nods grimly to the Nurse. She looks

at the kids.

SLOANE

Sits up in her seat.

NURSE

She's a picture of compassion and understanding.

SLOANE

A smile curls across her lips. As she gathers her books she

looks to the GIRL next to her.

The Nurse is gently holding Sloane's hand.

He has a suspicious look on his face.

INT. DEAN'S OFFICE

Rooney's at his desk. His secretary is standing across from

him.

Rooney smiles. His suspicions are confirmed.

As the secretary starts out of the room, Rooney's phone

rings. She stops and answers the desk phone.

She puts the call on hold.

Rooney is startled. He thinks for a beat then reaches for

the phone.

Rooney answers her with an annoyed look. She smiles and

backs out. He punches the phone button.

Rooney rolls his eyes. It's so obvious it's not Mr.

Peterson.

The secretary stops cold in the doorway. She turns to Rooney

in horror. He covers the phone.

Rooney's other line rings.

She steps out of Rooney's office and picks up the other

line.

Her jaw drops.

She puts the call on hold and hangs up. She hurried into

Rooney's office.

Rooney's chewing out the person on the other line.

The secretary comes in. She's waving her arms furiously.

Rooney tries to wave her away. He's angry. She stomps her

foot. Rooney covers the phone.

CU. ROONEY'S FOOT

It freezes in mid-tap.

CU. ROONEY'S HAND

The pencils falls from his fingers.

CU. ROONEY'S FACE

A mask of horror. He glances at the phone.

CU. PHONE

The second line light is flashing.

CU. ROONEY

He blinks, cocks his head, twitches.

He's zipping his pants, fastening his belt. The phone's

cradled against his shoulder. He speaks in the same voice he

used on his father.

He's staring blankly ahead.

He nods.

CU. PHONE

Rooney's finger gingerly presses the button on the waiting

call.

CU. ROONEY

He winces as he returns to the first call.

Cameron's on the phone in the kitchen. He's doing a deep,

phoney "father" voice.

He apologies profusely to Cameron. He's perspiring,

trembling.

Rooney nods enthusiastically.

Cameron lays into Rooney.

Ferris strolls into the kitchen to catch the last of the

conversation. Cameron covers the phone.

Cameron sighs and goes back to the phone.

Ferris gives Cameron an enthusiastic thumbs up.

Cameron smiles proudly.

Ferris smacks Cameron. He's said the wrong thing. He covers

the phone.

Cameron panics. He holds the phone out to Ferris.

Ferris waves his arms angrily.

Cameron takes a deep breath. He clears his throat and puts

on his father's voice.

Ferris slaps Cameron. The phone flies out of his hand.

He winces as the phone hits the floor with a loud CLONK!

We HEAR THE BOYS SCRAMBLING TO PICK UP THE PHONE, THEN

CAMERON CLEARING HIS THROAT.

We HEAR A SLAP AND THE CALL DISCONNECTS.

Cameron's rubbing the side of his head.

Ferris is incredulous at Cameron's stupidity. Cameron's

anger is intensified by his embarrassment.

Cameron glares at Ferris.

He turns and heads out of the room. Ferris sighs.

Cameron stops.

He turns around.

Cameron smiles. He appreciates Ferris apology.

Cameron's jaw drops.

The door opens slowly, dramatically as we hear a heraldic

fanfare. Light streams in to reveal Cameron and Ferris

looking at the car. Ferris is smiling with excitement and

awe. Cameron is frowning with trepidation and fear.

CU. FERRARI STALLION

The prancing black stallion. We move up from the stallion to

the erotic red hood of a 1958 Ferrari 250 GTS California.

CAMERON AND FERRIS

Cameron's face is ashen. The end of the world is at hand.

Ferris is in heaven.

He puts his arm around Cameron.

Cameron shakes his head, no.

CU. FERRARI GRILLE

Cameron's protests are drowned out by the distinctive roar

of the twelve cylinders.

The roar of the engine is overtaken by the sound of a

crowded school hallway.

She comes out of a classroom. She stops as Sloane and Rooney

walk past. Sloane has her coat on and she's carrying her

books. Jeanie watches her suspiciously.

The Ferrari is parked out in front. The top is down.

Ferris is driving. He's wearing a man's hat and sunglasses.

Cameron's in the back.

Cameron squeezes himself lower.

Rooney and Sloane come out the door.

Sloane looks across at the Ferrari. Rooney looks.

THEIR POV

Ferris is looking out across the roof of the Ferrari. He's

careful to keep his nose and mouth below the roofline.

EXT. SCHOOL

Rooney's suspicious. Sloane smiles and bids Rooney a hasty

farewell.

She hurries to the car. Rooney watches her. Something does

compute for him.

She's watching out the door. She sees the Ferrari pull away.

He can't quite put his finger on what's bothering him.

Sloane shrieks with delight. She leans across the console

and gives Ferris a kiss.

She laughs and turns to Cameron.

He smiles.

It accelerates away like a shot.

A fresh, modern bank building. The clock outside read 9:53.

The Ferrari pulls into the parking lot.

Ferris, Cameron and Sloane walk in. Ferris is cocky and

confident. Sloane's still intoxicated with her freedom.

Cameron's having stomach trouble. Ferris leads the way to an

open teller window.

INT. BANK. TELLER

A WOMAN about seventy with a silver blue beehive. It's about

four inches higher the highest beehive you're ever seen. As

she moves the beehive hits a small sign over her head. She's

been at the bank since they opened. She smiles when she sees

Ferris.

FERRIS

He's at the window. On either shoulder are Cameron and

Sloane. Ferris smiles. Cameron blanches.

TELLER

She pats the rock-solid mass of blue hair. In doing so she

locates a missing ball point pen. She withdraws it from the

hair and smiles at it's reappearance.

FERRIS

He lays his savings bonds on the counter.

Sloane suppresses a laugh.

Cameron isn't amused.

INT. BANK. TELLER WINDOW

Mrs. Froeling takes the bonds with a hearty smile. The

latter part of the conversation sails over her like a line

drive.

Cameron groans and turns away from the sham.

Mrs. Froeling thumbs through the bonds.

CU. CAMERON

He's spooked by the games playing. He scans the bank

nervously. He blinks, focuses, blinks again.

HIS POV

Joyce is with a MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE and their bored,

sour-puss teenage son, BOYD. He's sitting in a chair with

his legs slung over the sides waving a Bic lighter back and

forth across his rump. The parents are Joyce's clients from

Vermont. A LOAN OFFICER is discussing the local financing

situation with them. His is an open office adjacent to the

teller windows. Joyce's back is to the tellers.

CU. CAMERON

It's like he's just witnesses an ax murder.

INT. BANK. JOYCE

Her back is to the teller windows. She's conducting her

meeting. Behind her we see Cameron grab Ferris and point her

out to him. He waves. Cameron slaps his arm.

INT. BANK. TELLER WINDOW

Mrs. Froeling shows Ferris the savings bonds.

INT. BANK. JOYCE

She concludes her meeting. She shakes hands with the loan

officer and stands. The Vermont Couple stands. Boyd scrapes

the bottom of his shoe on the desk, leaving a glob of mud

behind and he stands. Joyce turns into the bank. Ferris,

Cameron and Sloane are gone. She escorts her customers out.

INT. BANK. DOOR

Joyce and the Vermont Couple approach the doors. Boyd lays a

luggie in the drinking fountain. Mrs. Froeling passes with

the savings bonds. She stops when she sees Joyce.

Joyce doesn't know what she's talking about.

She pats Joyce on the arm.

She toodles on her way. Joyce and the Vermont Couple are

completely baffled.

Joyce and the Vermont Couple walk along the side of the

bank, heading for the parking lot. Boyd's tagging along

behind. He picks up a stone and hurls it into the parking

lot.

We HEAR A METALLIC PING! as Boyd's missle hits a car.

They pass a show window. As they pass, we hold on the

window. It's promoting saving for college educations. A

mannequin father is congratulating his mannequin son in a

mortar and gown as a stiff Sloane, Ferris and Cameron look

on proudly.

His secretary is dialing a number for him.

She hands the phone to Rooney.

Rooney glares at her.

The secretary nods.

It clicks on. We hear a grieved woman's voice. It sounds an

awful lot like Sloane.

Rooney quickly takes down a number.

His answering machine clicks on. We hear Cameron's voice.

Rooney hangs up the phone.

The secretary's looking at a newspaper on Rooney's desk.

She's not listening to him.

Rooney looks at her, puzzled.

Rooney stares at her like she's crazy.

The major thoroughfare into the city of Chicago from the

suburbs. The Ferrari streaks past. In the distance we see

the Sears Tower, the Hancock Building and the Standard Oil

Building.

Jeanie's walking down the hall. She's stopped by a KID with

a Coke can.

Jeanie stares at him. She's flabbergasted at the proportions

her brother's scan has reached.

She knocks the can out of his hands and storms down the hall.

The kid yells after her.

He reaches for the can.

The Ferrari pulls into a large parking garage.

EXT. GARAGE

Ferris, Sloane and Cameron get out. Cameron's having fits.

CU. PARKING ATTENDANT

He smiles with relish at the car. 6'6", 240. An IQ that

equals his hourly wage. Shoulder-length hair stuffed into a

hairnet Gold teeth. Earring. Goatee.

EXT. PARKING LOT

The Attendant swaggers over to the car. Ferris slips him a

give.

He pats the Attendant on the arm. He smiles.

The Attendant very gingerly gets into the car. Ferris turns

to Cameron. The Ferrari pulls into the lot very slowly, very

carefully. No squealing tires, no revving engine.

She heads down the street.

Ferris nudges Cameron on. They exit the garage and head

after Sloane. A long beat and the Ferrari creeps down the

exit ramp of the garage. It's gone in the entrance and out

the exit. Another attendant jumps in the passenger side.

He's skinny, tall, with a huge knit hat willed with dreads.

He lets out a spirited laugh and the Ferrari peels out of

the lot. It heads down the street away from Sloane, Ferris

and Cameron.

Joyce's care pulls in the driveway. She gets out and heads up

the house.

It's dark. There's a figure in the bed. We hear soft

snoring. A wire runs from under the bed covers to the closet

door to the door to the room itself.

INT. ROOM. DOOR KNOB

The wire is tied to the doorknob. It's taut. Downstairs, we

hear a door open and close.

Joyce quietly walks up the stairs.

Joyce comes up the stairs and crosses to Ferris' room. She

listens at the door. WE HEAR THE SNORING.

CU. DOORKNOB

Joyce slowly turns the doorknob and pushes the door open a

crack.

HER POV

The door opens and the figure-like lump in the bed moves.

CU. JOYCE

She smiles and closes the door.

The closet door is open. The wire from the bedroom door is

strung over the top of the closet door. A trophy is attached

to the end of the wire and it's resting on a yard stick. As

the bedroom door closes, the trophy lifts up off the

yardstick and the lump in the bed goes back down to it's

original position.

CU. FERRIS' SYNTHESIZER

Little LED's are lighting up to the rhythm of the snoring.

The snoring it simulated.

Joyce listens at the door another beat. She's smiles with

relief and affection.

HELICOPTER SHOT moves in on the world's tallest building. As

it passes we see three figures pressed against the windows.

Ferris, Cameron and Sloane are standing against the window.

Ferris steps back. Sloane and Cameron follow suit.

He leans forward, putting all his weight on his forehead.

Sloane leans forward. Cameron follows, reluctantly.

HER POV

The street far, far below. A dizzying view.

INT. OBSERVATION DECK

The three are leaning against the glass.

CU. CAMERON

He's looking down.

A middle-aged man, Cameron's father, HORACE FRYE, is

standing on the street corner. He's lean, clean, tough and

humorless. He's wearing a puzzled look on his face.

HIS POV

The Ferrari screams down the avenue and disappears down the

underground ramp.

Ferris and Sloane bound down the escalator. Cameron follows

glumly. They dance past the giant Calder mobile. They're

singing.

Ferris and Sloane burst out the doors garnering the annoyed

stares of the business people busily going in and out of the

building. Cameron politely waits his turn to exit. Ferris

and Sloane head down the street. Cameron follows.

Giant old monolith.

Traders are frantically buying and selling commodities.

Ferris, Cameron and Sloane are sitting in the gallery

watching the proceedings.

Ferris puts his arm around Sloane.

Sloane stares at him. Is he serious.

Cameron suddenly adds his two cents.

Ferris looks around at him.

Ferris and Sloane look at him curiously.

Cameron hasn't seen it that way. He shrugs.

It hasn't occured to Cameron that his parents might not like

him. That parental love might not be a given.

They stand up and head out. Ferris hangs back a moment. He

cups his hands to his mouth. He yells at the top of his

voice.

And he exits. Cool and casual.

It explodes with activity in response to Ferris' shout.

We HEAR A RADIO ANNOUNCER.

A French restaurant on the Gold Coast.  It's noon.

Ferris, Sloane and Cameron are standing in the restaurant.

Ferris is looking at the maitre 'd's reservations book.

HIS POV

His fingers runs down to a party of three for 12:00.

INT. RESTAURANT

The maitre'd returns.

The maitre'd looks at Ferris curiously.

Sloane tugs Ferris' sleeve. He ignores her.

Cameron chokes. Sloane grits her teeth. The maitre'd smiles

smuggly.

CU. PHONE

Ferris punches out a number. A beat and the restaurant's

second line lights up and the phone rings.

INT. RESTAURANT

The maitre'd motions for the phone so that he can answer the

call. Ferris waves him off angrily.

The maitre'd backs off.

He hands the phone to Sloane.

INT. RESTAURANT. LATER

Ferris, Sloane and Cameron are seated in the restaurant. The

maitre'd is hovering over Ferris.

The maitre'd backs away. Ferris smiles. Sloane is impressed.

Cameron is flushed with nerves.

Cameron looks to Ferris.

Ferris disappears behind his menu.

We HEAR HALLWAY SOUNDS AND JEANIE.

Jeanie's sitting on a bench in a field hockey uniform. She's

talking to a FRIEND.

She yanks angrily on the velcro strap on her sneakers. The

straps rip off in her hand.

She displays the velcro straps to her friend.

Jeanie tosses the straps on the floor.

Jeanie freezes with her next sentence pinned to her tongue.

Her friend smiles sheepishly.

Jeanie's friend shrugs, wags her head, does everything but

verbally confirm.

Jeanie shakes her head in disbelief.

Jeanie's friend gets up.

Her friend exits.

She snarls and slumps against the lockers.

Ferris is standing at the urinal.

He looks down at the urinal.

He zips this trousers and steps away from the urinal.

He checks his hair in the mirror.

He exists the men's room. We hold a beat. A toilet flushes.

Another beat and Tom walks out of the stall. He crosses to

the sink.

Cameron and Sloane have been served their lunches. They're

staring at the plates.

Ferris slides over to the table and drops into his seat.

Cameron looks at Ferris.

He puts his napkin in his lap and smells his plate.

He takes a bite. He savors the taste.

Cameron and Sloane try theirs. They chew tentatively.

Sloane and Cameron shrug. It's not bad. A WAITER passes.

Ferris stops him.

The waiter stops and looks at Ferris indignantly.

The waiter glances at the plates.

CU. SLOANE AND CAMERON

They stop chewing. They're holding their sweetbreads in their

mouths.

CU. FERRIS

He continues his questioning.

CU. WAITER

He nods broadly, knowing that he's spoiling the kids' meal.

CU. SLOANE AND CAMERON

They look at each other.

CU. FERRIS

He pats his mouth with his napkin. He looks to Cameron and

Sloane. He raises a finger, holds it a beat and gives a cue.

CU. WAITER

He turns away as Sloane and Cameron spit out their food.

CU. FERRIS

He watches Sloane and Cameron then glances at the waiter.

Tom and his two GUESTS are standing at the curb, talking. A

cab is waiting. The door's open. In the B.G. Ferris, Sloane

and Cameron come out of the restaurant. They approach the

cab. Tom's back it to Ferris. Ferris stops cold.

FERRIS, SLOANE, CAMERON

They turns on cue at Tom, now in the B.G., turns toward the

restaurant.

He turns to the cab. Sloane and Cameron turn slowly.

EXT. STREET. CAB

Tom and his party are still jawing at curbside. Ferris,

Sloane and Cameron slowly approach the cab. Behind the backs

of the men, Ferris scoots Sloane into the cab. Cameron

dashes in. The Ferris hops the cab.

INT. CAB

Ferris slams the door.

CU. CAB DOOR HANDLE

A man's hand reaches for the handle as the cab pulls away.

EXT. RESTAURANT

Tom and his guests watch in bewilderment at their cab takes

off. MUSIC COMES UP.

The grand old Chicago museum.

The main gallery is crowded with school kids.

INT. MUSEUM. FLOOR

A class of kids walking along holding hands. Among the

second graders are Ferris, Sloane and Cameron, holding hands

looking like giant grade schoolers.

INT. MUSEUM. DISPLAY CASE

Baby chicks are hatching in a huge, round incubator. Sloane,

Ferris and Cameron are intently watching the process.

INT. MUSEUM. COAL MINE

Sloane, Ferris and Cameron ride in the coal train in the

coal mine replica. Ferris and Sloane are making out.

INT. MUSEUM. INDUSTRIAL DISPLAY

Sloane operates a metal press to produce a tin ashtray.

INT. MUSEUM. HEART REPLICA

A giant, walk-thru replica of a human heart. Ferris staggers

out of it, clutching his heart, feigning a massive heart

attack.

INT. GERMAN U-BOAT

Ferris is examining the controls of the captured U-Boat. He

checks to see if he's being watched then he presses a button

and pulls a lever.

CU. PROPELLER

For the first time in forty years, the screw turns.

CU. HUMAN FETUS IN A BOTTLE

The famous stages of life display which features bottled

fetuses. The ninth month. A tiny human being in a jar.

CU. SLOANE, FERRIS, CAMERON

Sloane wants to cry. Cameron's stomach is in his throat.

Ferris is lost in thought. The MUSIC ENDS.

From the Merchandise Mart, looking down the fetid, green

swath of water. A boat is rolling up the man-made canyon.

Long beat.

The boat makes the turn in the river and CLEARS FRAME.

EXT. BOAT DOCK

The three are sitting on the aft deck of the tour boat.

Their feet are up on the railing. Very casual, very relaxed.

Discussing the end of the world.

A loud speaker on the boat identifies a point of interest.

The three look to the left.

Cameron looks over the side of the boat. An obtuse thought

flashes through Sloane's brain.

Meanwhile...

Jeanie is having a small moral debate with herself.

She slips into the Dean's outer office.

Rooney's secretary is behind her desk. Jeanie walks in. The

secretary looks up and greets her with a weary smile.

Jeanie scowls at her.

A car tire rolls into FRAME and stops. Slide across to the

sidewalk. Rooney's dress shoe steps out onto the pavement.

Move up to reveal Rooney standing at the door of his

bile-green LeBaron. Rooney peels off his shades and looks

around like he's Dirty Harry. In his mind he is Dirty Harry.

CU. FIRE HYDRANT

Rooney's dres shoe on the hydrant. He ties his lace and

pulls up his sock.

EXT. STREET

Rooney straightens his tie and jacket and slips into a rowdy

hot dog joint.

It's jammed with construction workers, secretaries, suburban

businessmen. It's loud and confusing. Rooney pushes his way

in and scopes the crowd.

HIS POV

A young person is playing a video game in a far corner.

CU. ROONEY

He suspects it's Ferris. It look sort of like Ferris. He

smiles and cuts into the crowd.

CU. THE BACK OF THE VIDEO PLAYER'S HEAD

MOVE IN on the player.

The player looks up.

The player turns around. It's a GIRL.

CU. ROONEY

The blood evacuates his face. He stares at the girl.

CU. GIRL

She stares at him. She picks up her Coke. She puts the straw

to her lips and sucks.

CU. ROONEY

He's still staring. He can't think of anything to say.

CU. GIRL

Holding the straw in the mouth, she draws it out of the cup.

She raises it, pointing it directly in Rooney's face.

CU. ROONEY

He squints

CU. GIRL

She blows a strawful of Coke in Rooney's face.

CU. NAPKIN HOLDER

A hand yanks a napkin hold.

INT. HOT DOG STAND. SERVICE COUNTER

Rooney wipes his face. Behind him is the kitchen and a

grease-covered TV set broadcasting a Cubs baseball game.

There's a long foul ball. The TV camera follows the ball

into the stands. A kid makes a stab at the ball. Rooney

wipes his suit off. The TV camera zooms in on the boy

triumphantly holding the foul ball aloft. It's Ferris.

He does a little celebration dance. Rooney wads up the

napkin and tosses it in a trashbin. The TV camera returns to

the game. Rooney glances at the screen.

Rooney nods and exits.

Ferris sits down with the baseball. He shakes his stinging

paw. On either side of him are Cameron and Sloane. Cameron's

scarfing nachos.

Cameron offers his nachos to Sloane. She looks at them with

disgust.

Ferris leans back, puts his hands behind his head and turns

his face to the bright sun.

A boy's gym class is doing laps. A blue Fiat pulls into the

shot.

Jeanie's at the wheel. She sneaks a glance at the school.

She puts the car in gear and drives out of the shot.

A parade is underway. Floats and politicians. Marching

bands, drum and bugle corps, soldiers, school kids. Figure

skating club in outfits and skates performing their routines

on pavement. It's GERMAN-AMERICAN APPRECIATION DAY.

EXT. STATE STREET. FLOAT

Riding atop on a float is Ferris. He's waving to the crowd.

He and half a dozen homely German-American Beauty Queens.

He's leading the girls in singing, "DANKE SHOEN".

EXT. STATE STREET. SLOANE AND CAMERON

They're watching Ferris go by. They wave to him.

Cameron breaks a smile. As worried as he is about the day

and getting caught, he has to admire Ferris for his lack of

inhabitions. Cameron mumbles a few words.

Sloane looks at him with amazement.

EXT. STATE STREET. FLOAT

Ferris is on his knees, reaching down from the float,

shaking hands with people in the crowd.

EXT. STATE STREET

Sloane and Cameron continue their conversation.

Sloane laughs at herself. They step out of the crowd and

head down the street in the direction the parade's heading.

Cameron nods.

EXT. STATE STREET. FLOAT

Ferris is playing "TWIST AND SHOUT" on the accordian. The

girls on the float are singing.

EXT. STREET. SLOANE AND CAMERON

They continue their conversation.

Cameron doesn't understand what she means.

They walk on for a few beats. We HEAR "TWIST AND SHOUT"

GROWING LOUDER AND LOUDER. The sons is taking over all the

other tunes in the band. It's infecting the entire parade.

EXT. STATE STREET. MARCHING BAND

They're playing TWIST AND SHOUT.

EXT. STREET. MOUNTED POLICE OFFICER

He's singing.

EXT. STREET. PUNKS

A band of PUNKS are dancing on the roof of a news kiosk.

EXT. STREET MOTHER AND HER CHILDREN

A WOMAN and her two TODDLERS sing along.

EXT. STREET. BLACK TEENAGER

He's wearing a shower cap and a maroon overcoat.

EXT. STREET. OLD NEWSPAPER SELLER

He singing along.

EXT. STREET. CHOIR GROUP

They're marching down the parade. They're singing in their

angleic voices.

EXT. STREET. STREET CLEANERS

With their brooms ready...

EXT. STREET. DECK

The entire parade is singing and playing "TWIST AND SHOUT".

EXT. STREET. VIEWING STAND

The POLITICIANS and their WIVES stand up.

EXT. STREET. VIEWING STAND

The CLERGYMEN stand.

EXT. STREET. VETERANS

Marching in formation and in WWII uniforms.

EXT. STREET. FLOAT

Ferris leads the Beauty Queens in the rousing finale.

EXT. STREET. WIDE AND HIGH

The entire parade is at frenzy pitch.

The SOUND OF THE VOICES blends with the SOUND OF A RED-LINED

HIGH PERFORMANCE ENGINE.

The Port of Chicago. Grim, gritty waterfront. Suddenly,

Cameron's father's car flies OVER CAMERA. Like the opening

shot in Star Wars. The Starship Ferrari. SLO-MO.

CU. FERRARI UNDER-CARRIAGE

It travels past to reveal a beautiful blue sky. SLO-MO.

CU. PARKING ATTENDANT

His eyes are wide with exhilaration. Mouth open, tongue out.

Maniac at the wheel. SLO-MO.

CU. RASTAMAN

His eyes are closed. Big smile. SLO-MO,

EXT. STREETS. KIDS

They're looking up in the air, following the car as it flies

over them. Broad, excited smiles. The car's shadow passes

over them. SLO-MO.

It fills the frame and stops. We MOVE UP to reveal Rooney

behind the wheel of his car.

EXT. FERRIS' HOUSE

Rooney gets out of his car. He looks at the house, looks up

and down the street, then crosses to Ferris' house.

Rooney's at the front door. We see him peek in a window at

the top of the door. The doorbell rings.

It acknowledges the doorbell.

CU. CASSETTE PLAYER

It clicks on.

The house intercom activates. We HEAR FERRIS' VOICE.

Rooney presses the intercom.

There's a pause. Rooney presses the intercom again.

His voice clicks off. Rooney presses the intercom again.

Rooney presses the intercom.

There's no response. Rooney rings the doorbell again. The

pre-recorded litany starts over.

Rooney doesn't realize that he's listening to a recording.

Rooney leans back from the door. He can't quite figure out

what's going on. But's it's highly suspicious.

Rooney steps through the hedges and peeks in the windows. We

HEAR FERRIS' VOICE inside.

Rooney tries to peak in the kitchen window.

A black rubber doggie door. The type that allows a dog to

come and go as it pleases. Rooney is crouched down. He lifts

the doggie door and peeks in the house.

HIS POV

Along the kitchen floor. Through the kitchen, into the

dining room. We hear a LARGE DOG GROWL.

CU. ROONEY

He's peaking through the door. He hears the dog. His face

freezes.

EXT. HOUSE. DOGGIE DOOR

A Rottweiler bursts through the doggie door in a fury of

gnashing teeth and foam.

Tassled pasties twirl like airplane propellers.

CU. CAMERON, FERRIS AND SLOANE

They're sitting in a booth in the garish, nearly deserted

strip joint. Cameron's mouth is open in amazement. Sloane is

embarrassed and revolted.

He flips his collar up, curls his lip and affects an Elvis

impression. A sappy, do-wop track FADES UP. The club lights

go down. Cameron and Sloane disappear into darkness. Ferris

stands up from the booth. He strolls slowly through the

empty club as the stripper bumps and grinds in a pool of

blue light.

He climbs up on the little runway. The stripper disappears

in darkness as Ferris takes over the spotlight.

Elvis fades up. The orignal recording. Ferris lip synchs

with the big, dramatic florish that was the King's trademark

ballad sign-off.

Ferris drops his head. Like the King would.

Cameron's father is looking at the car. He's studying it. It

looks terribly familiar. He leans into the open car and

reaches for the glovebox to see if the contents will confirm

if it's his. He freezes. He looks up slowly.

HIS POV

The Attendant and the Rastaman are glowering at him. They're

holding bags of fried chicken.

CU. CAMERON'S FATHER

He shakes his head, no.

Jeanie's standing at her car. She's staring incredulously

into the distance. Her mouth's open. She's shaking her head

slowly.

HER POV

Spray-painted on the town water tower in gigantic black

letters -- SAVE FERRIS BUELLER.

CU. JEANIE

She's furious.

Afternoon traffic.

Ferris, Sloane and Cameron in the backseat of a checker.

Ferris is on one window, Cameron on the other. Sloane's in

the middle. Ferris is talking to the DRIVER.

He leans forward and reads the driver's name off the city

license.

Ferris sits back. He puts his arm around Sloane.

Cameron looks at him.

Cameron's staring past Ferris. He's frozen. Ferris realizes

he's looking at something out the window. He turns. He

freezes.

HIS POV

In the gridlock traffic, their cab is squeezed tight

alongside another cab. In that cab is Tom. He's about a foot

from Ferris. He turns and looks right into CAMERA.

TOM'S POV

Ferris' frozen face.

FERRIS' POV

Tom glances back at his paper. He pauses. Looks up. Thinks.

Turns back to CAMERA.

TOM'S POV

Sloane is sitting where Ferris was. She's wearing

sunglasses, looking bored. She turns and glances out the

window. Fakes a yawn.

HER POV

Tom stares at her. He's baffled. He looks away.

INT. CAB. FLOOR.

Cameron and Ferris are on the floor. On their asses, with

their backs to the back of the front seat, feet up on the

seat.

Sloane bursts out laughing.

She licks her finger and touches Ferris knee. She makes a

sizzling sound. She collapes on the seat in hysterics.

INT. TOM'S CAB

Tom's looking into Ferris' cab.

HIS POV

Sloane's bouncing up and down.

CU. TOM

He can't quite figure out what's going on. He turns and

slowly raises his newspaper over his face. We see on the

back of the paper a small story with the headline: COMMUNITY

RALLIES AROUND SICK YOUTH.

The Rottweiler's chewing on a shoe. Tearing it apart.

EXT. BACKYARD. ROONEY

He's standing outside the fence. He's missing a shoe. His

suit pants are torn from the crotch to the knee. His suit

coat pocket is torn off. His hair's messed and there're

grass-stains on his knees and elbows. He's looking in at the

dog.

HIS POV

The Rottweiler leaps at CAMERA.

Ferris is leading the way down Michigan Avenue. He's

hustling through the crowd. He has Sloane by the hand. She's

jogging to keep up. Cameron's a few steps behind. He keeps

bumping into people. Ferris and Sloane make the turn at

Wacker Driver and disappear into the Stone Container

Building. Cameron follows, mumbling again.

A florist truck pulls up in front of the house. A DELIVERY

MAN gets out iwth a huge floral arrangement. He heads up to

the house.

Rooney's sitting on the porch patting a bloody knee with his

handkerchief. The delivery man hops up on the steps. Rooney

looks up at him. He greets Rooney cheerily.

He presses the doorbell. A beat and we hear Ferris'

recording.

The Deliver Man presses the intercom.

It's a recording, asshole.        ...that in my weakened

What's your problem?              myself to further school

He's one of my students.          You can reach my parents

Little bugger's dying.            stopping by. I appreciate

What?                             remembered long after

Rooney is flabbergasted.

Rooney looks at the flowers. Then he looks at the Delivery

Man.

He hands the arrangement to Rooney.

He bounds off the porch and trots to the truck. Rooney looks

incredulously at the arrangement. He opens the attached

card.

CU. CARD

It's signed:

The number one afternoon FM rock'n roll D.J. is sitting

behind his microphone.

He put his headphones on.

Jeanie's car pull in the driveway. We hear her car radio.

INT. CAR. JEANIE

She goes into shock. Her eyes blink, her head cocks.

Jeanie draws back and punches out her radio.

CU. CAR ANTENNA

The impact of her blow to the radio shoots the antenna in

the air.

Ferris leans forward and adjusts the microphone.

Ferris turns to CAMERA.

A group of kids are sitting around a blaster.

Ferris turns from the mike to CAMERA.

He turns back to the DJ.

A even larger group of kids is listening to the blaster.

They're cheering him on.

The Rottweiler is laying unconscious on the lawn. The flower

arrangement is scattered all over the yard and the ceramic

vase the flowers were in has obviously struck the dog. The

broken pieces are all around the dog's head.

EXT. FERRIS HOUSE. BACKYARD. ROONEY

He's smiling with great satisfaction.

He hears something in the house. His head snaps around. He

drops down and peek in the windows.

HIS POV

A glimpse of a fleeting figure.

CU. ROONEY

His eyes dance in anticipation of revenge.

Jeanie kicks the door open. The yardstick flings the covers

and the pillows beneath them in the air. She stomps in and

turns off the snoring synthesizer.

She grabs the phone and sits down. She dials a number.

Rooney sneaks around the side of the house. He slinks up on

the porch. The front door's open. He peeks in.

Jeanie's on the phone.

She slams the phone down.

She's startled by a noise downstairs. A smile spreads across

her face. He's back and she's going to nail him.

Rooney sneaks into the house. He looks around the foyer and

heads into the kitchen.

Jeanie tiptoes down the stairs.

Rooney sneaks through the kitchen into the den.

Jeanie comes down the stairs into the foyer.

Rooney comes out of the den, back into the kitchen. He

crosses back toward the foyer.

Jeanie sneaks into the kitchen.

Jeanie and Rooney come face-to-face. Jeanie squeals in

horror. She doesn't recognize Rooney as himself but as an

intruder. She drops into a karate stance and kicks Rooney in

the face. He hits the deck. She flees back up the stairs.

Boyd is sitting in the backseat of Joyce's car listening to

the radio.

EXT. CAR

Joyce and her clients leave a show house and head toward the

car.

INT. CAR

Boyd looks out the window as his parents and Joyce appear.

EXT. CAR

Joyce and her clients take one last look at the house.

She opens the car door.

INT. CAR

The door opens.

Joyce gets in. The clients get in the other side. A song

starts.

The kid stares at her.

Boyd sits up in the seat at the mention of Ferris' name.

Joyce looks around at Boyd. She gives him a curious look.

Joyce give him a puzzled smile and starts the car.

Jeanie's on the phone. She's in a panic.

There's another pause. Jeanie's face drops.

Rooney's plugging his bloody nose with paper towel. The

intercom goes on.

Rooney stiffens with fear.

Rooney's car is hooked to a tow truck. It's parked in front

of a fire hydrant and the windshield is decorated with

parking citations. In the distance SIRENS WAIL.

The three are waiting for the Ferrari. We HEAR TIRES

SQUEALING, AN ENGINE REVING-OUT. Then the Ferrari pulls down

the ramp and jams to a frightening stop. A BLACK GUY jumps

out. Ferris hands him the parking stub.

He hands him a buck and opens the door and pulls the

passenger seat forward for Cameron.

Cameron gives him a look and squeezes in.

The Ferrari cruises through traffic.

INT. FERRARI

Sloane's in the passenger seat. Ferris is driving and

Cameron is crammed in the back.

Ferris looks in the mirror and changes lanes. He glances

down at the speedometer, then to the road. And back to the

speedometer.

He glances down at the speedometer.

CU. SPEEDOMETER

The odometer reads 432.7.

EXT. TRAFFIC

The Ferrari pulls up at a stop light. We HEAR A THUNDERING,

MUFFLED SCREAM.

EXT. EXPRESSWAY

The Ferrari is buzzing through traffic.

INT. FERRARI

Sloane turns in her seat and looks at Cameron. Her gesture

is one of genuine support.

CU. CAMERON

His eyes are frozen in a mindless, vacant stare.

CU. FERRIS

He looks at Sloane. He's concerned.

CU. CAMERON

He's still holding the stare. He starts to breathe heavily.

He's trembling.

CU. SLOANE

She whips around in the seat and grabs his arms.

CU. FERRIS

He shoots Sloane a look.

INT. FERRARI

Sloane fires an angry look at Ferris.

She turns back to Cameron.

CU. FERRIS

Eyes front. He knows what he's doing.

The doorbell rings. The Ferris' tape is activated.

We hear a MALE VOICE over the intercom.

The tape continues as Jeanie hurtles down the stairs.

She jumps the last few stairs and slides to the front door.

She whips it open.

The door swings open.

Her jaw goes slack. She blinks her eyes.

HER POV

The Delivery Man and a young ASSISTANT are standing at the

door with floral arrangements. Spread all around them are

more flowers. A sexy singing NURSE and a BALLOON MAN steps

up on the porch.

The door slams shut.

Rooney's walking down the street. A school bus is crawling

alongside him as kids hang out the windows. From inside we

hear SHOUTING and seventeen different SONGS PLAYING ON

BLASTERS. A top forty montage.

Rooney doesn't respond.

Rooney keep walking. The bus doors open. The DRIVER calls

out to him.

Rooney takes a few more steps. He stops. The bus stops.

Rooney takes a deep breath. He climbs aboard the bus.

The bus is jammed with WONKS and WEINERETTES. The passengers

are silent as they watch Rooney shuffle down the aisle and

take an empty seat next to a skinny, myopic GIRL.

CU. GIRL

She looks at Rooney and smiles. She pushes her Coke bottle

glasses up on her nose.

CU. ROONEY

He looks vacantly at her.

CU. GIRL

She holds her smile.

CU. ROONEY

He stares at her.

CU. GIRL

She holds up a candy package.

CU. ROONEY

He stares at her.

CU. GIRL

She puts one in her mouth.

CU. BOY

A rotund FRESHMAN BOY sitting across from Rooney is staring

at him.

CU. ROONEY

He looks across to the kid.

CU. BOY

He leans forward.

CU. ROONEY

He turns him eyes to the front. The bus jerks forward and

pulls away.

It grinds through the gears as it heads down the quiet

street. The BLASTERS go back on, the SHOUTING RESUMES.

Cameron's laying on a picnic table. Sloane's sitting beside

him on the table. She's stroking his hair. Ferris WALKS INTO

THE FOREGROUND. He addresses CAMERA.

He begins to walk. We follow him.

CU. CAMERON

His eyes are closed. Sloane's stroking his hair.

CU. SLOANE

She's studying Cameron's face. She looks away.

CU. FERRIS

He looks to the picnic table. Then back to CAMERA.

He starts back to the picnic table.

UNDERWATER SHOT. A hyrdojet spews a gush of air bubbles.

CU. BLASTER

A finger pushes the PLAY button on the cassette. MUSIC COMES

UP.

CU. BEER CAN LID

The finger pops a beer.

CU. OREO PACKAGE

A painted fingernail pierces the cellophane wrapper.

INT. JACUZZI

Ferris and Sloane are in Sloane's parents' Jacuzzi. Their

clothes are tosssed around the deck. Cameron's been placed

in a patio chair at the edge of the Jacuzzi. He's still

catatonic. He's mummbling softly. Ferris is drinking a beer.

Sloane's eating Oreos.

CU. CAMERON

Staring into space.

CU. SLOANE AND FERRIS

They look at each other. She offers him a cookie. He offers

her his beer.

CU. CAMERON

He doesn't respond.

CU. SLOANE AND FERRIS

Sloane sips the beer.

CU. CAMERON

No response.

EXT. BACKYARD

Ferris and Sloane watch their catatonic friend.

CU. CAMERON

He smiles.

CU. SLOANE

She leans forward and stares at Cameron.

CU. FERRIS

He cocks his head, wondering what Cameron's up to.

CU. CAMERON

He keels over forward.

EXT. BACKYARD

Cameron falls out of the chair and splashes down,

face-first, into the water. Sloane screams. Ferris leaps for

him.

UNDERWATER

Ferris struggles with Cameron's lifeless bulk.

CU. SLOANE

She's screaming. Ferris thrashes around in the water.

UNDERWATER

Ferris grabs Cameron's collar and rips him out of the water.

EXT. BACKYARD

Ferris sits Cameron on the edge of the Jacuzzi.

CU. CAMERON

His eyes are closed. He's lifeless.

CU. FERRIS

His face is a mask of terror. He shakes Cameron.

CU. SLOANE

She's screaming.

CU. CAMERON

A smile spreads across his face.

CU. FERRIS

He sees the smile. He stops shaking Cameron.

EXT. JACUZZI

Ferris and Cameron are looking at each other. Sloane's still

screaming. She realizes that Cameron's okay. She stops

screaming.

Cameron's smiling.

Ferris starts to laugh. Cameron explodes with laughter.

Sloane's bewildered.

Jeanie's sitting on a wooden bench with a WASTED TEENAGE BOY

in a Triumph t-shirt, long hair, torn jeans, creepers, studs

and chains. He's studying her.

Jeanie stares at him.

The boy stares at her.

Jeanie turns away. The boy crosses his legs. Jeanie looks

back at him.

The boy shrugs.

The boy nods. He understands the emotion.

Jeanie stares at the boy.

The boy nods knowingly.

Jeanie stares angrily at him. Partly because he's so bold

and partly because he's so right.

Jeanie stares at him threateningly.

CU. JEANIE'S HAND

It curls into a fist.

It's spinning rapidly.

CY. ACCELERATOR

A brick's resting on the accelerator, holding it down.

INT. CAMERON'S GARAGE

Ferris, Cameron and Sloane are sitting in the garage. The

Ferrari is jacked up. The wheels are turning. The engine's

racing.

She thinks.

Cameron smiles at his wisdom. Ferris and Sloane think about

it. It's a good choice. Cameron gets up and walks to the

Ferrari.

Cameron peeks in the window.

CU. ODOMETER

Nothing's happening.

INT. GARAGE

Cameron pulls his head out of the car.

Ferris looks up.

Cameron shakes his head.

He walks back around behind the Ferrari.

CU. FERRIS

He turns to CAMERA.

CU. SLOANE

She smiles proudly at Cameron. She applauds him.

CU. CAMERON

He's serious and determined. He has made up his mind and it

appears that it won't be changed by anyone but himself.

CU. TIRES

It's spinning wildly.

CU. MERCEDES BUMPER

Cameron's foot rests on the bumper. A beat and it gives a

mighty shove.

CU. TIRE

The spinning tires slam down on the cement.

INT. GARAGE

Cameron has kicked the Ferrari off the jack. It squeals out

of the garage in a cloud of blue tire smoke. A $50,000

unmanned investment heading backwards down a driveway.

CU. SLOANE AND FERRIS

They're in shock.

EXT. HOUSE

The Ferrari shoots down the driveway.

INT. GARAGE

Cameron watches the car go. He's strangely placcid about the

impending disaster. Ferris and Sloane are bewildered.

THEIR POV

The Ferrari travels down the driveway, across the street,

over the curb into the wooded property opposite the house.

CU. TREE

The Ferrari's brief journey ends as it smacks a tree trunk.

INT. GARAGE

Ferris and Sloane exchange baffled looks. They look at

Cameron. He's proud and bold.

Cameron holds his proud posture for a beat. Then a look of

bewilderment comes over his face. He shoots a look to

Ferris. A puzzled look.

Cameron looks across the street.

Cameron thinks for a moment. Then he regains his confidence.

Ferris looks across the street at the car.

Cameron looks at him. He shakes his head.

He smiles. He raises am impish eyebrow.

Joyce is talking with the juvenile officer. Outside the

office, on the bench, we see Jeanie and the boy making out.

The gathers her purse and jacket and stands.

Joyce looks at the officer curiously.

Jeanie quickly breaks the embrace with the boy as Joyce

steps out of the juvenile officer's room. She's still a

little bewildered that everybody knows Ferris was ill.

Jeanie wipes her lips and sits up straight. The boy adjusts

his pants to better hide his passion.

Jeanie stands up.

Jeanie reaches down for her purse.

Sloane and Ferris are standing at the back fence.

Sloane smiles knowingly.

He kisses her.

Sloane nods. Ferris jumps the fence and takes off across the

backyards. Sloane watches him go. A huge smile spreads

across her face.

She backs away from the fence. MUSIC FADES UP.

She turns and runs into the house.

Ferris sprints across a backyard. He jumps a plaster elf.

Ferris vaults a fence. He runs directly for a swimming pool.

He's approaching it from the side. He leaps, hits the diving

board, springs off, does a flip and lands on the grass on

the other side of the pool.

Neatly bundles stacks of bills and rolled coins. A

significant amount of cash.

CU. SLOANE

She's writing.

CU. PIECE OF PAPER

We see a portion of the typewritten letter as she signs it.

He's running down the middle of the street. A car honks.

Ferris moves to the side. The car pulls around him.

INT. CAR.

Tom's at the wheel. He glances in the mirror. He does a

take.

HIS POV. MIRROR

We see Ferris cut across a front lawn and into a house.

CU. TOM

He realizes it couldn't be Ferris.

Ferris runs through the kitchen, past a WOMAN, fixing dinner

and out her backdoor. The Woman looks up curiously.

Tom pulls in the driveway. He parks and gets out. Joyce

pulls in from the other direction.

Ferris tries the door. It's locked. He reaches down and

lifts the doormat.

CU. PORCH

The outline of a key in the dirt under the mat. The key's

gone. The toe of a chewed-up dress shoe steps INTO FRAME. An

OMNIOUS CHORD IS STRUCK.

CU. FERRIS

He stares up in horror.

HIS POV

Rooney's looking down at him. He's holding the house key.

EXT. PORCH

Ferris stands up. He smiles.

Ferris is caught. There's no way out. Rooney gloats

severely.

Suddenly, the backdoor opens. Jeanie looks out. She feigns

joy and relief. She rushes Ferris and hugs him.

CU. FERRIS

A moment of curiosity. Then it dawns on him what's

happening. He smiles.

CU. ROONEY

His eyes dart from Ferris to Jeanie to Ferris. His victory

is evaporating.

EXT. PORCH

Jeanie breaks the embrace.

Ferris limps into the house.

CU. ROONEY

He's dumbfounded.

CU. JEANIE

She raises her hands and strikes a karate pose. A huge smile

passes over her face.

CU. ROONEY

A look of terror as he realizes that is was Jeanie who

kicked him and that Jeanie knows it was he who she kicked.

EXT. PORCH

Jeanie steps into the house.

The door closes on Rooney's defeated, lost, dejected,

bewildered face. Not only has he lost Ferris again, he has

Jeanie to deal with next year.

The click of the door wakes him up. His head pops up off the

grass.

CU. ROONEY

He senses new danger. We hear AN O.C. GROWL. Rooney squeezes

his eyes shut.

Kimberly and Todd are sitting at the kitchen table watching

TV and eating cereal. They look up at Ferris as he comes in

from outside.

Ferris leans against the counter as he tries to catch his

breath. He looks at his little brother.

He crosses to the refrigerator and opens it. Kimberly feels

her head.

Ferris takes out a bottle of orange juice out of the

refrigerator and drinks straight from the bottle. Jeanie

comes in.

Ferris gives her a proud smile.

Joyce and Tom head up to the kitchen.

Ferris and Jeanie exit the kitchen as Joyce and Tom enter.

The foyer is jammed with floral arrangements, plants and

gifts. Ferris and Jeanie step gingerly through the flowers

and head upstairs.

Ferris continues up the stairs. He affects a sickly voice.

Ferris and Jeanie stop.

Ferris walks into the room, brushes the crumbs off his hands

and peels off his shirt. He climbs into bed. No sooner are

the covers over him than the bedroom door opens and Joyce

and Tom walk in. They walk over to the bed. Joyce sits down.

CU. FERRIS

The same deathly face he had in the morning. Tongue out,

eyes bulging.

He pulls in his tongue to speak.

Tom and Joyce hover over him with deep concern.

Joyce leans over and kisses him forehead.

Tom pats Ferris on the rump. He and Joyce exit.

CU. FERRIS

The hideous face. A beat and we HEAR THE BEDROOM DOOR CLOSE.

Ferris looks at CAMERA.

He rolls over on his back and puts his hands behind his

head.

He smiles.

MUSIC UP BIG

END TITLES

