EXT. A SAVANNAH STREET - DAY (1981)

A feather floats through the air. The falling feather.

A city, Savannah, is revealed in the background. The feather

floats down toward the city below. The feather drops down

toward the street below, as people walk past and cars drive

by, and nearly lands on a man's shoulder.

He walks across the street, causing the feather to be whisked

back on its journey. The feather floats above a stopped car.

The car drives off right as the feather floats down toward

the street.

The feather floats under a passing car, then is sent flying

back up in the air. A MAN sits on a bus bench. The feather

floats above the ground and finally lands on the man's

mudsoaked shoe.

The man reached down and picks up the feather. His name is

FORREST GUMP. He looks at the feather oddly, moves aside a

box of chocolates from an old suitcase, then opens the case.

Inside the old suitcase are an assortment of clothes, a

pingpong paddle, toothpaste and other personal items.

Forrest pulls out a book titled "Curious George," then places

the feather inside the book. Forrest closes the suitcase.

Something in his eyes reveals that Forrest may not be all

there.

Forrest looks right as the sound of an arriving bus is heard.

A bus pulls up. Forrest remains on the bus bench as the bus

continues on.

A BLACK WOMAN in a nurse's outfit steps up and sits down at

the bus bench next to Forrest. The nurse begins to read a

magazine as Forrest looks at her.

He opens a box of chocolates and holds it out for the nurse.

The nurse shakes her head, a bit apprehensive about this

strange man next to her.

Forrest eats a chocolate as he looks down at the nurse's

shoes.

The black woman stares at Forrest as he looks down at his

own shoes.

Forrest closes his eyes tightly.

INT. COUNTRY DOCTOR'S OFFICE - GREENBOW, ALABAMA - DAY

(1951)

A little boy closes his eyes tightly. It is young Forrest as

he sits in a doctor's office.

Forrest has been fitted with orthopedic shoes and metal leg

braces.

The doctor sets Forrest down on its feet. Forrest walks around

stiffly. Forrest's mother, MRS. GUMP, watches him as he clanks

around the room awkwardly.

Forrest walks foreground past the doctor and Mrs. Gump.

A loud thud is heard as, outside, Forrest falls.

EXT. GREENBOW, ALABAMA

Mrs. Gump and young Forrest walk across the street. Forrest

walks stiffly next to his mother.

EXT. RURAL ALABAMA

A black and white photo of General Nathan Bedford Forrest.

The photo turns into live action as the General dons a hooded

sheet over his head.

The General is in full Ku Klux Klan garb, including his horse.

The General rides off, followed by a large group of Klan

members dressed in full uniform.

EXT. GREENBOW

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk across the street.

Forrest stops suddenly as his brace gets stuck. Forrest's

brace is caught in a gutter grate. Mrs. Gump bends down and

tries to free Forrest. Two old cronies sit in front of a

barber shop and watch.

Mrs. Gump struggles to pull the stuck brace from the grate.

Forrest pulls his foot out of the grate.

Mrs. Gump helps Forrest up onto the sidewalk. She looks up

and notices the two old man.

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along the sidewalk past the two

old men. Mrs. Gump holds tightly onto Forrest's hand.

EXT. OAK ALLEY/THE GUMP BOARDING HOUSE

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a dirt road. A row of

mailboxes stands left.

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along the Gump Boarding House

driveway.

Mrs. Gump heads Forrest to the porch. She bends down to look

Forrest in the eye.

INT. ELEMENTARY SCHOOL / PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - DAY

The principal sighs, then stands up.

INT. HALLWAY

Forrest sits outside the principal's office and waits.

The principal stands in front of Mrs. Gump. Forrest, sitting

left, listens.

The principal holds up a chart with a designations according

to I.Q. and points to the center of the graph, labeled

"Normal." A red line below the normal area is labeled "State

Acceptance." The principal points to the section below the

acceptance line labeled "Below."

INT. HALLWAY

Forrest sits outside the principal's office.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE

EXT. GUMP BOARDING HOUSE - NIGHT

Forrest sits on a swing outside the house. Loud organic male

grunts are heard coming from inside the house. Forrest sits

on the swing as the grunts continue. The principal steps out

of the Gump House and wipes the sweat from his face.

Forrest is sitting on the porch.

The principal wipes the sweat from his neck, then looks back

at Forrest.

Forrest grunts, imitating him. The principal, embarrassed,

turns and walks away.

INT. GUMP BOARDING HOUSE/FORREST'S BEDROOM

Mrs. Gump reads from the book "Curious George" as Forrest

sits on the bed and listens.

Forrest lies down on his bed and looks up.

EXT. GUMP BOARDING HOUSE - DAY

A cab driver closes the trunk of the car as two women walk

toward the house. A milkman steps down from the porch.

INT. GUMP BOARDING HOUSE

Mrs. Gump steps forward and speaks to all the boarders.

A MAN WITH A CANE steps left across the hall.

Mrs. Gump looks into a sitting room and informs the boarders

about dinner.

Mrs. Gump walks up the stairs.

Mrs. Gump looks into Forrest's room. She hears singing coming

from another room and walks over to a closed door. Mrs. Gump

opens the door, revealing a young man with long sideburns as

he plays the guitar and sings. Forrest holds onto a broom

and dances oddly. The young man is ELVIS PRESLEY.

Forrest's legs rock back and forth to the guitar.

Mrs. Gump leaves and closes the door. Elvis sits back down.

Forrest stands left, and looks himself in a mirror.

Forrest begins to dance again as Elvis plays the guitar and

sings.

Forrest dances as he watches himself in the mirror.

Forrest rocks up and down on his braced legs, then begins to

step.

EXT. GREENBOW - NIGHT

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk along a sidewalk. A television

inside a store window reveals Elvis Presley as he performs

"Houng Dog" on a stage.

The television reveals Elvis as he thrusts his hips and sings.

Mrs. Gump and Forrest watch the television. Elvis dances

around in the same manner Forrest did. A woman in the audience

screaming and applauding.

Mrs. Gump walks away, pulling Forrest with her. Forrest stops

and takes one last look. Elvis continues to perform over the

television.

EXT. SAVANNAH/BUS BENCH - DAY

Forrest is still sitting on the bus bench. The black nurse

looks at him.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD/ALABAMA - MORNING (1954)

Mrs. Gump and Forrest wait for the school bus. The bus pulls

up as Mrs. Gump prepares Forrest for his first day of school.

The bus driver opens the door and looks down. Forrest walks

to the steps of the bus and looks at the bus driver. She is

smoking a cigarette.

The bus driver smiles as Forrest steps up into the bus.

INT. BUS

Forrest steps up onto the bus. Mrs. Gump waves to Forrest as

the bus drives away. Forrest begins to walk down the aisle.

TWO YOUNG BOYS look up from the seat.

Forrest looks around. A larger girl slides over so Forrest

can't sit next to her. She shakes her head. Forrest looks to

the other side where a boy sits alone on a larger seat. They

boy glares up at Forrest.

EXT. SAVANNAH/BUS BENCH - DAY

Forrest continues talking as he sits on the bus bench.

INT. BUS - MORNING (1954)

Young Forrest is still standing in the aisle on the bus.

Forrest looks back at JENNY CURRAN, a young girl about

Forrest's age.

Forrest sits down next to Jenny.

Jenny puts her hand out toward Forrest. Forrest reaches over

and shakes her hand.

EXT. OAK TREE - DAY

Young Jenny and Forrest run toward a large oak tree.

Jenny sits on a large branch and calls down to Forrest.

Forrest dangles from the branch.

Jenny and Forrest sit on a tree branch and read.

Forrest hangs upside down from a branch and swings back and

forth. Forrest's braces are wedged in the tree.

EXT. OAK TREE - NIGHT

The silhouete of the oak tree, Jenny and Forrest as they sit

on a branch.

Jenny puts her hand on Forrest's hand.

INT. SAVANNAH/BUS STOP - DAY

Forrest nods as he remembers.

Forrest continues talking to the black woman. She doesn't

seem to be listening as she reads her magazine. She looks up

from her magazine.

EXT. OAK ALLEY - ANOTHER DAY (1954)

Jenny and Forrest walk. A dirt clod hits Forrest in the back

of the head. Jenny looks as Forrest rubs his head. THREE

YOUNG BOYS get off their bikes and pick up more rocks.

Forrest is hit in the eye with another dirt clod. Forrest

falls backward onto the ground as the boys glare at him.

Jenny helps Forrest back up. Boy #1 and Boy #2 throw more

dirt clods at Forrest.

Another dirt clod hits Forrest in the arm.

Forrest tries to run along the road, but his braces makes it

impossible. He hobbles along as Jenny yells after him.

Boy #1 and Boy #2 turn back toward the bikes.

The boys pick up their bikes and ride after Forrest.

The boys ride after Forrest. Jenny stands and watches.

Forrest hobbles along the dirt road.

Forrest looks over his shoulder. The three boys race on their

bikes.

Forrest begins to run faster with his braces on. Forrest

continues running as the boys chase him. Blood drips down

from a cut on his head. The boys on the bikes are gaining on

Forrest. Forrest hobbles along. He begins to gain speed.

SLOW MOTION --

Forrest runs from the chasing room. He looks over his shoulder

in fear.

The boys on the bikes peddle faster as they gain on Forrest,

running.

Forrest tries to run even faster to get away. Suddenly his

braces shatter, sending steel and plastic flying into the

air.

Forrest runs and look down at his legs in surprise.

Forrest continues to run faster as the metal braces and straps

fly off his legs.

Forrest runs free of his braces and begins to pick up speed.

The chasing boys ride over the remains of Forrest's braces.

EXT. SAVANNAH/ BUS BENCH - DAY

The black woman continues to read her magazine. Forrest smiles

as he remembers.

EXT. OAK ALLEY - DAY (1954)

Forrest sprints away from the boys. The boys stop the chase

and watch in disbelief. Forrest is already at the far end of

the road, clear of the chasing boys.

Boy #1 throws his bike down in frustration. Forrest runs

across a field.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD

Forrest runs past a chain gang in their prison uniforms.

They are cutting at the weeds on the side of the road.

EXT. GREENBOW

Forrest runs across the street. THE TWO OLD MEN sit in front

of the barber shop.

EXT. JENNY'S HOUSE

Forrest runs down a driveway toward Jenny's small house.

Forrest knocks on Jenny's door.

Forrest look around the field at the left. He notices Jenny

and runs toward her.

Forrest runs to Jenny.

Jenny grabs Forrest's hand and runs into the field. Jenny's

DAD drunk, steps out onto the porch and shouts.

Jenny's dad steps out toward the field. Jenny leads Forrest

into the thick tobacco field. Jenny's dad runs through the

field searching for Jenny with a liquor bottle in his hand.

Jenny and Forrest run into a corn field as Jenny's dad tries

to chase her.

Jenny drops to her knees and pulls Forrest down with her.

EXT. TRAILER PARK/ALABAMA - DAY (1955)

A police officer escorts Jenny to her grandmother's trailer.

Jenny's grandmother meets Jenny outside and leads her toward

the trailer.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT (1955)

Jenny climbs over a second-floor railing and enters the house.

INT. GUMP HOUSE/FORREST'S BEDROOM

Jenny lies in bed next to young Forrest. She hugs him.

EXT. GREENBOW/OAK ALLEY - DAY (1961)

Forrest and Jenny are teenagers now. They walk along an

oaklined road.

Suddenly Forrest is hit in the back with a rock. Forrest and

Jenny turn around.

A teenage boy throws another rock as a pickup truck pulls up

behind him. Jenny turns and looks at Forrest.

Forrest drops his books and runs down the road. The teenage

boy jumps into the back of the pickup truck with another boy

as the truck speeds after Forrest. Jenny steps left and gets

out of the way.

Forrest runs along the road. The truck speeds after him.

Older Boy throws rocks at Forrest.

INT. TRUCK

EXT. OAK ALLEY

The boys in the back of the truck throw rocks at Forrest as

they drive up to him.

The truck follows right on Forrest's heels. A rebel flag

license plate adorns the truck's grill.

Forrest runs along the road as the truck chases him. The

boys in the back of the truck pound on the roof as the truck

turns right, after Forrest. The truck drives into a field.

Forrest runs toward a fence.

Forrest leaps over a five-foot fence as the boys try to catch

him.

EXT. SAVANNAH/BUS BENCH - DAY (1981)

Forrest looks left as he continues telling his life story.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL/ROAD - DAY (1961)

Forrest runs along the road in front of the high school. The

truck continues to chase him as the boys pound on the roof.

The truck speeds past Forrest as he turns from the road and

runs onto the high school football field. Forrest runs across

the field during a football scrimmage.

In the stands watching the scrimmage is the legendary

University of Alabama football coach BEAR BRYANT, wearing

his trademark plaid hat.

A group of assistant coaches sit around him, as well as the

high school football coach. The quarterback throws the ball

into the air.

Forrest runs past the quarterback. The receiver catches the

ball. Forrest runs past the receiver as an opposing player

tackles the stunned receiver.

The football coach stands, followed by the assistant coaches.

Forrest runs under the field goal post and through the end

zone.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA STADIUM - DAY (1962)

The crowd roars with excitement as a football is kicked off.

The football players run around on the field. The crowd of

cheering fans create a huge sign that reads: "GO."

Forrest is in a University of Alabama football uniform. He

looks up into the cheering crowd as his teammate fields the

kickoff. The teammate runs over to Forrest and hands him the

ball.

The football coach, the assistants, and Alabama players cheer

for Forrest.

Forrest runs across the field. He speeds past the defending

players. Forrest runs past the opposite players. The crowd

cheers wildly, holding up cards, making a large sign that

reads: "Go."

They turn the cards over, creating the word: "ALABAMA." The

football coach runs along the sidelines as he yells.

Forrest cuts and runs toward the sidelines. Two opposing

players collide. The football coach, the assistants and the

players all motion for Forrest to run toward the end zone.

Forrest turns up the sidelines and runs toward the end zone.

Some opposing players fall down. Forrest runs along the

sidelines. The opposing players try to catch him.

Forrest runs into the end zone as an opposing player dives

at his feet. The referee holds up his arm, signaling a touch

down. The crowd cheers wildly.

Forrest continues to run, smashing through the band members,

then all the way toward the team tunnel. The football coach

looks at an assistant coach.

INT. GREENBOW/BARBER SHOT - BLACK & WHITE TELEVISION (JUNE

11, 1963)

An anchorman named CHET HUNTLEY appears over the television.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA - DAY

Forrest walks through a crowd of people.

INT. GREENBOW/BARBER SHOP

A black & white television reveals George Wallace as he stands

in the doorway of the schoolhouse.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA

Forrest steps over to a young man as the crowd looks at the

demonstration.

Forrest walks toward the schoolhouse.

INT. COACHES' OFFICE

A football coach looks at a black and white television as a

newsman outside the schoolhouse speaks to the camera.

BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE

The footage cuts to Governor Wallace as he speaks to General

Graham.

Forrest stands next to George Wallace and listens.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA

Some of the Alabama policeman and citizens clap their hands

as the National Guardsmen stand at attention with their

weapons in front of them. Forrest walks through the crowd.

Two black students were being led toward the schoolhouse.

The young black girl drops one of her books. Forrest notices

and steps past the policeman toward the book on the ground.

Forrest steps out from the crowd and picks up the book. He

brings it up to the girl.

INT. COACHES' OFFICE - NIGHT (1963)

A coach looks at the television. The television reveals

Forrest as he stands at the schoolhouse door. He looks around,

then waves.

An assistant coach looks at the television, then at the other

coaches.

The football coach and two assistant coaches look. Forrest

dries himself off with a towel as he steps from the showers.

Forrest steps up to the coaches' area and grabs a clean towel.

The coaches turn and stare at Forrest. Forrest gives them

one of his silly waves, then walks away.

COLOR FOOTAGE - Governor Wallace waves to the crowd as he

stands behind a podium with his wife.

COLOR FOOTAGE - Governor Wallace mingles in a crowd. Gunshots

are fired, wounding him. Some men wrestle the shooter. Wallace

lies wounded on the ground.

EXT. SAVANNAH/BUS BENCH - DAY (1981)

Forrest sits on the bench as the black woman looks at him. A

WHITE WOMAN with a bay sits left.

A bus pulls up to the bus stop. The BLACK WOMAN looks down

at her watch.

The Black Woman gets up and steps over to the bus.

The white woman sits closer to Forrest.

EXT, GIRLS' COLLEGE/JENNY'S DORM - NIGHT (1963)

Forrest sits outside Jenny's dorm in the rain.

A car pulls up. A song is heard from the radio. Forrest,

holding a box of chocolates, looks at the car. The two people

inside the car begins to kiss and embrace each other. Jenny

is inside the car with a boy. She leans back against the

passenger side door as they struggle to get comfortable.

Forrest gets up and runs toward the car. He tries to look in

the window as he steps over to the driver's side door. He

opens the door and begins to punch the boy inside. Jenny

jump out of the car and runs over to Forrest.

Jenny's date, named BILLY, gets out of the car angrily.

Jenny turns and looks at Billy. He shoves Jenny's hands away

from him.

Billy gets back into the car.

Billy pulls away as Jenny steps toward Forrest.

Forrest holds out the box of chocolates.

Jenny grabs Forrest hand and leads him toward the dorm.

INT. JENNY'S DORM/HALLWAY

Jenny and Forrest sneak to Jenny's door.

Jenny unlocks the door and they step inside.

INT. JENNY'S DORM ROOM

Jenny pulls a robe off of her sleeping roommate's bed. Jenny

hands the robe to Forrest, sitting on Jenny's bed.

Jenny picks up a towel, then walks back toward Forrest. Jenny

dries the water from her hair.

Jenny takes off her slip and sits on the bed next to him.

She is only wearing her bra and panties. Forrest looks at

Jenny like he's never seen a woman in her underwear before.

Forrest looks down at Jenny's breasts. Jenny realizes that

he is looking at her.

Forrest looks at Jenny as she removes her bra. Forrest looks

away, a bit shamed. Jenny takes his hand and guides it up to

her breast.

Forrest looks over at Jenny's breasts, the shudder as he has

an orgasm.

Forrest breathes heavily. Jenny puts her bra back on.

Jenny leans over and puts her head on Forrest's shoulder.

A song is coming over the radio. Jenny hugs Forrest.

Jenny laughs and kisses Forrest on the cheek. Forrest and

Jenny hug on the bed as Jenny's roommate pretends to be

asleep, but is listening, horrified, with her eyes open.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA/FOOTBALL STADIUM - DAY (1963)

Forrest runs across the field as the defending team chases

him. The crowd yells for Forrest. They flip a sign that reads:

"Go Forrest."

Forrest runs along the field. The crowd cheers.

Forrest runs into the end zone. The band members rush toward

Forrest with their hands up, signaling him to stop. The crowd

flips over cards, creating a sign that reads "STOP."

Forrest stops in the end zone as he hears the crowd yells.

The band motions for Forrest to stop and stay in the end

zone. A group of defending players fall over each other in

the end zone. Forrest looks as the crowd cheers wildly.

BLACK AND WHITE PARAMOUNT NEWSREEL - DAY (1963)

The White House with the words "The eyes and ears of the

world Paramount News" superimposed.

BLACK AND WHITE NEWSREEL

PRESIDENT KENNEDY holds an autographed football as the All-

American Team stands behind him. Forrest is among the players

in suits.

INT. WHITE HOUSE RECEPTION AREA - DAY (1963)

The All-American players mingle around the food table. Forrest

steps up to the table. A large spread of food and soda is on

the table.

Forrest takes a bottle of Dr. Pepper from the buffet table.

Numerous bottle of Dr. Pepper are displayed on the table. A

servant opens the bottle for him.

Forrest begins to guzzle the Dr. Pepper.

Forrest sets down an empty Dr. Pepper bottle next to a large

number of other empty bottles. Forrest holds his stomach and

burps.

BLACK AND WHITE FOOTAGE - President Kennedy shakes hands

with the All-American football players.

Another player steps up to the President and shakes the

President's hand.

The player walks away. Forrest steps up to the President.

The President shakes his hand.

President Kennedy turns and smiles.

INT. WHITE HOUSE/BATHROOM

Forrest urinates in the bathroom, then lowers the lid and

flashes. Forrest washes his hands, then notices an autographed

photo from Marilyn Monroe and a photo of John with his brother

Bobby.

ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - DAY SLOW MOTION - President Kennedy rises

in a convertible and smiles.

ARCHIVAL FOOTAGE - Robert Kennedy stands at a podium as people

around him applaud.

EXT. SAVANNHA/BUS BENCH - DAY (1981)

Forrest sits on the bench and shakes his head.

EXT. UNIVERSITY OF ALABAMA - DAY - GRADUATION DAY (1966)

Students in their caps and gowns step forward the podium to

receive their diplomas. Forrest's name is called. He steps

up and accepts his diploma.

The dean shakes Forrest's hand vigorously. Forrest looks out

into the crowd.

Mrs. Gump, sitting in the audience, cries.

Forrest and Mrs. Gump have their picure taken in front of a

large statue. A military recruiter spots Forrest and steps

up to him.

Mrs. Gump takes the diploma from Forrest. The recruiter slaps

Forrest on the shoulder and hands him some military

literature.

Forrest looks at a pamphlet with a photo of "Uncle Sam" and

the caption "EXCELLENT CAREERS FOR EXCELLENT YOUNG MAN. Apply

now at your local U.S. Army Recruiting Center."

INT. ARMY BUS - DAY (1966)

Forrest steps onto the army bus. Rain pours outside as the

army bus driver yells at Forrest.

Forrest is about to sit on the first available seat, but the

recruit sitting there refuses Forrest.

Forrest tries to sit on the next seat, but the 2nd recruit

slides over, blocking him.

Forrest steps forward, looking much like he did on his first

bus ride to school years ago.

A large black recruit with a strange look on his face, much

like Forrest's, looks up from his seat. His name is BUBBA.

Bubba moves his case over, making room for Forrest to sit

down.

Bubba hands Forrest a handkerchief.

Bubba and Forrest shake hands.

INT. LOUISIANA/KITCHEN - DAY (1966)

Bubba's mother, a robust woman in a cook's uniform, carries

a bowl of shrimp into a dining room. She sets it down on a

table in front of a wealthy white man.

INT. SOMEWHERE IN THE SOUTH/KITCHEN - DAY (EARLY DAYS OF

SLAVERY)

Bubba's grandmother carries a bowl of shrimp into a dining

room. She sets it down on a table in front of a wealthy white

man.

INT. ARMY BUS - DAY (1966)

INT. BARRACKS - DAY

A DRILL SERGEANT is in Forrest's face as Forrest stands in

line with the other recruits.

The Drill Sergeant moves down the line to the next man.

ANOTHER DAY

The recruits are sitting at the base of their bunks assembling

their rifles. Bubba speaks to Forrest.

Forrest finishes assembling his rifle as the other recruits

are still working on theirs.

The Drill Sergeant rushes up to Forrest.

The Drill Sergeant looks at his stop watch.

The Drill Sergeant walks away as Forrest begins to disassemble

his rifle. After the Drill Sergeant walks past Bubba, Bubba

looks up at Forrest. Bubba continues talking about shrimp in

his slow southern drawl.

ANOTHER DAY

Bubba and Forrest shine their boots.

ANOTHER DAY

Bubba and Forrest are on their hands and knees as they scrub

the floor with toothbrushes.

NIGHT

Bubba lies in his bunk and looks up quietly.

Forrest lies in his bunk and looks up.

A young private tosses a Playboy magazine onto Forrest.

Forrest pick up the magazine and turns the page, revealing

Jenny as she poses with a school sweater on, and that's all.

The pictorial is titled: "Girls of the South." Forrest looks

up with shock. He cranes his head up for a closer look.

INT. NASHVILLE/NIGHT CLUB - NIGHT (1966)

Forrest, in his army uniform, steps into the foyer of the

club.

EMCEE steps out onto the stage.

The emcee walks back off the stage and the curtain opens,

revealing Jenny as she sits on a stool on the stage. She

holds a guitar up and begins to play. She is topless.

The men laugh.

Man #5 reaches up and tries to stick some money in Jenny's

shoe.

Jenny kicks his hand. He yells angrily as he sits back down,

then tosses his drink on her.

Forrest walks up to Man #5 and grabs him and tosses him down

on the ground. Man #4 tries to grab Forrest, but Forrest

shoves him down too.

Forrest climbs up onto the stage and picks Jenny up, guitar

and all, and carries her.

Jenny struggles and frees herself from Forrest. Forrest steps

back in surprise. Jenny shoves the guitar at Forrest. Jenny

walks off as Forrest holds the guitar. He follows after her.

EXT. MEMPHIS BRIDGE - NIGHT

Forrest follows Jenny over a bridge outside the night club.

Jenny turns and looks over the bridge.

Jenny turns and looks at the light of an approaching vehicle.

She steps into the street.

Jenny runs and flags down the approaching vehicle.

A pickup truck pulls over as Jenny looks at the driver.

Jenny walks toward Forrest. She looks at the driver.

Jenny walks up to Forrest.

Jenny takes a last look at Forrest, then climbs into the

truck. Forrest watches Jenny in the pickup as it drives away.

EXT. GREENBOW/GUMP BOARDING HOUSE/RIVER - DAY

Forrest, dressed in his uniform, sits on a log and looks out

at a river.

Mrs. Gump walks toward Forrest and sits down next to him on

the log. Forrest leans down, placing his head on his mother's

shoulder.

EXT. VIETNAM/MEKONG DELTA - MORNING (1967)

The shadow of a helicopter over the rice field below. A

soldier is manning a gun from inside the helicopter. The

solider looks left, Forrest and Bubba ride in the helicopter.

EXT. FIREBASE/4TH PLATOON

The helicopter circles overhead, then lands at the firebase.

Bubba and Forrest jump out of the helicopter with their gear/

They walk and look around oddly.

The soldier places a case of beer on a large stack of cases.

He takes two beers out and walks away. In the background,

soldiers are barbecuing steaks and drinking beer.

Lieutenant DAN TAYLOR steps out of a tent. Shirtless, he

holds a roll of toilet paper in his hand.

Lt. Dan looks at Bubba.

Forrest and Bubba look at each other oddly, they don't get

the joke.

Lt. Dan starts to walk. Bubba and Forrest grab their gear

and follow him.

Lt. Dan stops and looks at the boys.

Lt. Dan steps over to a large black soldier named SERGEANT

SIMS.

EXT. VALLEY FORGE/THE REVOLUTIONARY WAR - DAY (1778)

A distant relative of Lt. Dan's, wearing a revolutionary war

uniform, falls dead in the snow.

EXT. GETTYSBURG/THE CIVIL WAR - DAY (1863)

Another relative, wearing a civil war uniform and bearing a

striking resemblance to Lt. Dan, falls down dead.

EXT. NORMANDY/WORLD WAR II - DAY (1944)

Another relative, wearing a World War II, falls down dead on

the beach at Normandy.

EXT. VETNAM/MEKONG DELTA/FIREBASE - DAY (1967)

Lt. Dan steps back up to Bubba and Forrest.

Lt. Dan walks along the walkway and Bubba and Forrest follow.

Lt. Dan steps inside the latrine, still holding the roll of

toilet paper.

Lt. Dan sits down out of sight in the latrine, then stands

up, looking at the boys.

Lt. Dan sits back down out of sight in the latrine. Bubba

and Forrest look at each other.

EXT. RICE FIELD - ANOTHER DAY

Forrest, Bubba, and other soldiers in the Fourth Platoon

walk across the rice field. Some Vietnamese rice farmers are

working as the soldiers walk past.

EXT. JUNGLE/DIRT ROAD - ANOTHER DAY

Forrest's unit walks along a dirt road.

Suddenly Lt. Dan holds up his fist, a signal for the unit to

stop. He motions for them to get down.

Forrest gets down and looks around.

Lt. Dan motions for the lead soldier to get down. Lt. Dan

crouches down. Lt. Dan looks at the soldiers and points to

his eyes. He lies down on the dirt road and crawls.

Tex holds up his hand, motioning that he doesn't know.

Forrest stands up and begins to walk with the platoon.

EXT. VIETNAM/VIET CONG FOXHOLE - ANOTHER DAY

Lt. Dan walks away as Forrest rushes over, aims two pistols

in the hole, then climbs inside.

ANOTHER DAY - The platoon walks through a rice paddy, waits

deep in water. It begins to rain.

EXT. JUNGLE

The rain pours down on Forrest and Bubba as they sit in a

foxhole.

ANOTHER DAY - The platoon walks through the jungle as rain

pours down on them.

ANOTHER DAY - The platoon shelters themselves as they walk

through the wind and rain.

ANOTHER DAY - Forrest and other soldiers walk chest-deep

through a river. The rain splatters back up from the river,

hitting the soldiers. Forrest holds his hand up to protect

his face.

EXT. ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

The rain pours down on the men of the platoon as they sit in

a camp. Bubba sits down next to Forrest.

Bubba leans his back up against Forrest's back.

ANOTHER NIGHT - Some soldiers patrol the area. Forrest lies

in a pup tent and writes a litter as the rain pours down. He

uses his flashlight to see.

EXT. JENNY'S GRANDMOTHER'S TRAILER - DAY

Jenny steps out of the trailer with a backpack and a guitar.

She hugs a hippie guy, then jumps into the back of a

Volkswagen bus with another guy.

EXT. VIETNAM - NIGHT

Forrest writes a letter in his tent.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

The Fourth Platoon makes their way through the jungle and

rain.

Forrest looks up as the sun suddenly appears. Forrest's

platoon is attacked. A bullet kills the soldier standing

next to Forrest. Bombs explode all around as the soldiers

scramble to the ground.

Forrest crawls over a berm as bullets fly overhead and explode

all around him. Forrest rolls over and pulls his pack off

Lt. Dan lies next to Forrest.

Two soldiers with a machine gun fire into the jungle. Lt.

Dan shouts into the radio. Forrest begins firing his weapon

into the jungle.

Two soldiers pull a wounded soldier into the jungle.

The machine gunner fires into the treeline. Another soldier

helps him with the ammunition. The machine gun jams.

A rocket explodes on the machine gunner and the other soldier,

killing them. Forrest looks down and covers his head as

rockets explodes all around him.

Lt. Dan gets up and grabs Forrest by the collar.

The platoon gets up and runs toward the cover of the jungle.

Rockets explode all around the field. Forrest runs into the

jungle. The soldiers run through the jungle as bullets explode

all around. A soldier is blown up by a rocket. A soldier

runs through the jungle. Forrest runs past the soldier.

Rockets explode in the jungle as Forrest runs out toward a

clearing.

Forrest turns around, then runs back into the jungle.

Rockets explode in the jungle. Forrest runs back into the

jungle to look for Bubba.

Forrest stops and aims his weapon. He looks around, scared.

Something moves. Forrest turns and looks, then rushes over.

Tex lies on the ground, his face distorted with pain.

Forrest reaches down and picks up Tex from the ground. Forrest

pulls Tex up over his shoulder, then runs.

Forrest carries Tex out of the jungle and into the clearing.

He sets Tex down on the bank of a river, and runs back into

the jungle.

Forrest drops another wounded soldier down at the bank of

the river next to Tex, and then runs back toward the jungle.

Forrest grabs the third wounded soldier up from the ground

and turns him over. It is DALLAS.

Dallas is dropped off at the bank next to the other wounded

soldiers. Forrest turns to go back to the jungle.

Forrest trips over something and falls to the ground. He

looks up to find two bloody legs. It is Lt. Dan, who is

wounded. He speaks into the radio.

Forrest tries to pick up Lt. Dan, who tries to push Forrest

away.

Forrest pulls Lt. Dan over his shoulder and runs through the

jungle.

Forrest falls down.

Forrest gets up as Lt. Dan yells. Lt. Dan fires his pistol

at the unseen enemy as Forrest pulls him away.

Forrest drops Lt. Dan down at the bank, next to the other

wounded soldiers. Lt. Dan grabs Forrest by the shirt, angry.

Forrest gets up and runs as Lt. Dan yells after him.

Forrest runs through the jungle searching for Bubba. Forrest

slows down and looks around carefully.

Bubba looks up as he lies on the ground.

Bubba holds a palm frond over his wound. Forrest removes the

frond to look at the wound. Bubba's chest has been blown

open.

Forrest looks around as he hear the voices of the enemy.

Forrest carries Bubba through the jungle. The sound of

approaching planes fills the air.

The roar of approaching planes is deafening. Forrest looks

up in fear. Three planes dive down toward the jungle. They

fire napalm as the jungle explodes with massive fireballs.

Forrest runs, carrying Bubba. The fireballs explode behind

him. The entire jungle area is in flames as Forrest runs.

Forrest carries Bubba to the bank of the river. Lt. Dan and

the other wounded soldiers wait for a rescue helicopter.

Forrest looks down at Bubba. A soldier releases a smoke

canister.

The helicopter fly overhead.

BUS STATION - DAY

Forrest continues with his life story. A MAN is sitting next

to Forrest on the bus bench.

FLASHBACK - INT. US. ARMY HOSPITAL/VIETNAM - DAY

Forrest holds two ice cream cones in his hands as he is

wheeled on a rolling stretcher.

Forrest, lying on his stomach, is wheeled to his bed.

Forrest's butt sticks up and is bandaged. Forrest looks at

Lt. Dan lying on the bed. Forrest holds out an ice cream

cone for Lt. Dan.

Lt. Dan, annoyed, takes the ice cream cone and drops it into

his bed pan. Forrest slides himself onto his bed. A NURSE

reaches toward Lt. Dan.

The male nurse places Lt. Dan's hands on a pull-up bar, then

picks up Lt. Dan, whose legs have been amputated.

Another nurse wheels the rolling bed under Lt. Dan. The male

nurse sets Lt. Dan down on the rolling bed. Forrest looks up

at Lt. Dan as he is wheeled away. A soldier reads the names

from a pile of letters.

The soldier hands Forrest a large pile of letters.

"Undeliverable as addressed. No forwarding order on file."

Jenny Curran Rural Route 2 Greenbow, Ala. 39902 Forrest looks

down at the pile of letters.

INT. ARMY HOSPITAL/VIETNAM - DAY

A group of wounded soldiers hang out in the hospital,

recuperating. Forrest sits and watches "Gomer Pyle" on the

television.

Forrest turns the TV off and he is hit on the back of the

head by a ping-pong ball.

Forrest shakes his head.

The wounded ping-pong player hands Forrest a paddle. Forrest

and the wounded ping-pong player step toward the ping-pong

table.

He holds the ball up and moves it back and forth. Forrest

keeps his eyes on the ball.

The wounded ping-pong player tosses the ball down onto the

table. Forrest begins to hit the ball back to the other

player.

Forrest hits ping-pong balls.

The balls at land in a bed pan positioned on a chair. A group

of wounded soldier sit and watch Forrest play with himself.

Forrest hits two balls at a time against the opposite side

of the table.

Lt. Dan stares out the window. Forrest lies in his bed asleep.

A hand reaches and grabs him.

Lt. Dan pulls Forrest to the floor, and holds Forrest down.

Lt. Dan looks at Forrest, lets go of Forrest and rolls.

Lt. Dan sits up as Forrest looks at him.

INT. REC ROOM/VIETNAM HOSPITAL - ANOTHER DAY

Forrest plays ping-pong by himself. An OFFICER walks up to

him.

Forrest immediately grabs the ball and places it down on the

table under its paddle. Stands at attention.

The officer holds up an envelope.

INT. VIETNAM HOSPITAL WARD

Forrest steps up to Lt. Dan's bed.

Forrest stops in mid-sentence as he looks down at the bed. A

heavily bandaged soldier with bloodstains lies there. Forrest

turns and look at the NURSE.

INT. BARBER SHOP/GREENBOW - DAY

The television reveals Forrest as he is awarded the Medal of

Honor by President Johnson.

Color footage revealing President Johnson as he places the

award around Forrest's neck and shakes hands.

President Johnson leans and whispers into Forrest's ear.

INT. BARBER SHOP

The television revealing Forrest as he drops his pants, bends

over and shows the bullet wound on his bare buttocks.

President Johnson looks down and smiles. The three men in

the barber shop look up in disbelief. Mrs. Gump looks up in

shock.

EXT. LINCOLN MEMORIAL - DAY

Forrest walks by the Lincoln Memorial. A fence surrounds the

Memorial, as well as armed military guards.

Forrest takes a photo of the memorial as a woman named Hilary

gathers together some veterans against the Vietnam War.

Hilary grabs Forrest and puts him in the line with the other

vets against the war.

Hilary leads the line of vets toward the large anti-Vietnam

War rally.

The group of vets walk as Forrest tries to take another

picture. A vet behind him pushes him along.

Forrest walks in the line. A banner reads "Veterans against

the War in Vietnam."

Hilary leads the vets through a crowd of people outside the

rally. Another woman, named Isabel, leads the vets toward

the back of a stage.

A man, wearing an American flag shirt, stands on the stage.

He is anti-war activist ABBIE HOFFMAN.

Forrest looks up at the cheering crowd. Abbie turns and

motions for Forrest to come up on the stage.

Hilary pulls Forrest up onto the stage.

The other vets follow Forrest pushes onto the stage and push

him toward the microphones.

Thousands of cheering protesters stand around the Washington

Monument. Forrest looks at the crowd. Abbie Hoffmann steps

up to Forrest.

Abbie raises his fist as the crowd cheers wildly.

Forrest looks at the crowd as he speaks. A policeman looks

around as he sneaks over to the audio circuit board.

The policeman pulls the patch cords out of the audio board.

Forrest's amplified voice becomes inaudible. Forrest continues

to speak into the microphone, even though no one can hear

what he is saying. Hilary looks over and notices the

policeman. Hilary rushes over toward the audio board, pushes

the policeman away and grabs his night stick. Another

protester grabs the policeman and pulls him away.

Isabel, Hilary and another protester try to plug the tangled

mess of wires back into the audio board.

Forrest continues to speak into the microphone. The crowd

grows restless.

Hilary plugs in the right patch cord.

Forrest looks at the massive crowd. They are silent. Abbie

Hoffman steps over to Forrest and pats him on the shoulder.

Abbie raises his fist into the air. Abbie steps away from

Forrest. The crowd cheers.

Jenny wades out into the reflection pool and waves her hand

into the air. Forrest recognizes her.

Forrest rushes off the stage as Jenny makes her way out into

the pool.

Forrest jumps down into the crowd and runs. Jenny smiles as

she tries to run through the water. The crowd parts as Forrest

runs into the pool. Jenny rushes toward him.

The massive crowd cheers for the embracing couple in the

pool.

EXT. WASHINGTON MONUMENT/PROTESTER'S ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

Forrest and Jenny walk past the protesters who are camping

out on the lawn.

INT. BLACK PANTHER HEADQUARTERS/STOREFRONT, D.C. - NIGHT

Forrest stands at an open window and looks at the White House.

A Black Panther, named RUBEN, steps over and pulls the shades

down.

Another Black Panther named MASAI grabs Forrest and pats him

down.

Wesley hits Jenny across the face. Slow motion -- Jenny falls

back. Slow motion -- Forrest steps forward with rage.

Slow motion -- Wesley turns and looks at Forrest. Forrest

tackles Wesley and slams him onto a table. Jenny turns and

looks as Masai pulls out a gun.

Jenny rushes over to Forrest and pulls Forrest off Wesley.

Jenny tries to help Wesley as he moans on the floor. Wesley

knocks Jenny's hand away. He gets up, holding his bloody

lip.

Jenny steps out the door as Forrest picks up his hat.

The group of Black Panthers glare at Forrest. Forrest turns

and walks out the room.

EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. - NIGHT

Forrest and Jenny walk past the White House. Protesters hold

a candlelight vigil behind them.

They walk in silence. Jenny touches Forrest's uniform.

EXT. ROUTE 66 - FLASHBACK - DAY

Jenny stands in the rain, hitchhiking. A car pulls over to

pick her up. Jenny and other other girls get into the car.

EXT. COMMUNE IN NEW MEXICO - NIGHT

A hippie gives Jenny a sugar cube of acid as they sit in

front of a roaring fire.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD/WALK OF FAME - DAY

A star with the name "Jean Harlow" on the sidewalk. Jenny

and two other girls sing on the sidewalk and collect change

from the passersby. Jenny plays the guitar.

A young hippie looks over his faded Volkswagen at the girls.

EXT. WASHINGTON D.C. - DAWN

Forrest and Jenny walk through the park.

EXT. PARKING LOT - EARLY MORNING

Jenny carries a backpack as she prepares to board a bus back

to Berkeley.

Forrest looks down at Jenny. He pulls his Medal of Honor

from around his neck.

Forrest places the Medal of Honor in Jenny's hand. Jenny

looks up at him.

Jenny and Forrest hug each other. Wesley waits for Jenny.

Jenny turns and walks up to Wesley. They walk toward the

entrance of the bus. Forrest smiles as Jenny looks at her.

Jenny climbs up into the bus. Wesley glares at Forrest.

Forrest gives Wesley the "evil eye." Jenny through the near

window of the bus, knocks on the window. Forrest turns and

looks. Jenny waves to Forrest. Forrest looks up and smiles

sadly. Jenny gives Forrest the peace sign as the bus pulls

away. The sign on the back of the bus reads "Berkeley to

D.C." Forrest gives Jenny the peace sign.

INT. VETERANS ADMINISTRATION HOSPITAL/REC ROOM - DAY

A footage of Neil Armstrong's first step on the moon on

television.

Forrest demonstrates a ping-pong to some wounded vets.

BUS STOP - PRESENT - DAY

Forrest looks at a man.

EXT. CHINA/PING-PONG TOURNAMENT - FLASHBACK - DAY

Forrest plays ping-pong against a Chinese player. A large

mural of Mao Tse-tung hangs on the wall. A crowd of communist

leaders sit and watch.

BUS STOP - PRESENT - DAY

Color footage of the DICK CAVETT Show. Dick Cavett stands up

as he introduces Forrest.

Forrest makes his way onto the stage, shakes hands with Dick

Cavett.

Forrest sits down between JOHN LENNON and Dick Cavett.

John Lennon lights a cigarette.

Forrest looks oddly at John Lennon.

EXT. STUDIO - LATER

A guard lets Forrest out a side entrance door. Forrest steps,

an then stops as he hears s man sitting in a wheelchair speak

to him.

Forrest looks at Lt. Dan. He is a dirty with long hair.

Lt. Dan's wheelchair begins to slide down the ramp and spins

around on the icy ground. Forrest looks down at Lt. Dan

crashes at the bottom of the ramp.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Taxi cabs crowd the street as Forrest pushes Lt. Dan along

the sidewalk.

A taxi driver honks his horn as Forrest wheels Lt. Dan out

in front of the taxi.

A taxi skids to a stop, almost hitting them as they cross

the street. The taxi honks at Lt. Dan. Lt. Dan slaps the

bumper of the taxi.

EXT. LT. DAN'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

A Bob Hope Christmas special in Vietnam on television. Lt.

Dan and Forrest watch the television.

Lt. Dan chuckles, drinks the rest of a bottle of wine and

tosses it down. He looks at Forrest. He wheels himself over

to television and turns it off.

Lt. Dan picks up another bottle of port wine, but it is empty.

He tosses it onto the floor.

Lt. Dan tosses the empty liquor bottle down and picks another

bottle. He becomes enraged as he throws the bottle and looks

at Forrest.

INT. TIMES SQUARE BAR - NIGHT

A television shows DICK CLARK as he emcees the Times Square

New York Eve celebration.

Two sleazy women, named LENORE and CARLA, walk up to Lt.

Dan.

Carla puts a "Happy New Year" crown on Lt. Dan's head. Lenore

fixes her makeup.

Lenore leans and speaks into Forrest's ear.

INT. APARTMENT/L.A. - NIGHT

The New Year's Eve celebration over the T.V.

Jenny fills her bag with her belongings.

A man lies passed out on the bed. Jenny looks at her black

eye in a mirror, then leaves the apartment. The TV shows the

ball in Times Square.

INT. TIMES SQUARE BAR - NIGHT

The ball is lowered, lighting up a sign that reads "1972."

The people in the bar cheer and kiss each other. They blow

horns and toss confetti into the air. Forrest looks around

as Carla and Lenore lean over and kiss him.

INT. LT. DAN'S HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Carla removes her top and sits on top of Dan in his

wheelchair. They kiss and play around. Forrest sits in a

chair. Lenore leaps on him and begins to kiss Forrest. She

reaches down to Forrest's crotch. Forrest stands up nervously,

causing Lenore to fall down on the floor. Lenore stands up,

angry.

Lt. Dan throws Carla back onto the bed.

Lt. Dan falls out of his wheelchair and lands down on the

floor. Carla and Lenore laugh as they leave the apartment.

Forrest tries to help Lt. Dan. Lt. Dan pushes Forrest away.

Forrest steps back as Lt. Dan flips back over, then pulls

himself back up onto his wheelchair. He breathes heavily.

EXT. WHITE HOUSE - NIGHT

An ANCHORMAN reports in front of the White House.

PRESENT - BUS STOP

Forrest looks at the fat man on the bus bench.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - DAY

A plaque, presented to Forrest, reads "Presented to Forrest

Gump, member of the United States table tennis team as player

of the year for 1971. President NIXON holds the plaque.

INT. WATERGATE HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Forrest speaks on the phone.

Forrest steps over to a window. Flashlights are moving around

in an office across from Forrest's room.

Forrest hangs up the phone. The camera tilts down, revealing

the hotel stationary, which reads "The Watergate Hotel."

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

President Nixon makes a resignation speech on TV.

The television cuts to a shot of President Nixon standing

outside Air Force One with his hands in the peace sign.

Forrest is playing ping-pong by himself at the gymnasium. An

officer steps up to him.

The officer hands Forrest an envelope, then walks away.

Forrest takes his paddle and runs out of the gymnasium.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Mrs. Gump walks out of the house and smiles. Forrest walks

up to the house, wearing his uniform.

INT. GUMP HOUSE

Mrs. Gump and Forrest walk into the house.

In the house are stacks of ping-pong paddles and life-sized

cardboard cutouts of Forrest playing ping-pong. The name on

the ping-pong paddles boxes reads: "Gump-Mao table tennis."

EXT. BAYOU LA BATRE/BUBBA'S MOM'S HOUSE - DAY

Forrest walks up to a shack on the edge of the Bayou. A group

of black kids play in the front yard.

Bubba's mother named MRS. BLUE and her other children look

at Forrest.

EXT. BUBBA'S GRAVE - DAY

Forrest steps over to Bubba's tombstone.

Forrest pulls out notes from his pocket.

EXT. BAYOU - DAY

Forrest walks across a yard where men are cleaning shrimp.

Forrest walks along a wooden pier. Forrest pays an old black

shrimper a large wad of cash.

EXT. BUBBA'S GRAVE

Forrest stands at the grave.

EXT. BAYOU - DAY

Forrest steers his shrimping boat. The boat is old and rusty.

Forrest unleashes his nets as his catch of the day drops to

the deck. It is a bunch of garbage and shells. Forrest picks

up one shrimp.

EXT. DOCKS

Forrest pulls a couple of shrimp out of a bucket.

The old shrimper begins to walk away, then stops and looks

at Forrest.

Forrest paints a name on the side of his boat. The name is

"Jenny."

INT. DISCO

Disco lights flash and people dance. A guy asks a girl to

dance.

Jenny sits at a table with some other people. She is snorting

cocaine.

EXT. BAYOU LA BATRE - DAY

Forrest stands at the helm as the boat glides across the

water.

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

Drug paraphernalia and a large wad of cash are spread out on

a table. A man drops a syringe on the table. He reaches over

and touches Jenny. She is pale with dark lines under her

eyes.

INT. BATHROOM

Jenny smears some lines of cocaine on a mirror. She looks at

herself in the mirror.

EXT. BALCONY

Jenny steps out onto the high-rise balcony. She steps up on

a table and stands on the edge of the balcony. A busy street

lies many stories below. Jenny looks down to the intersection

below.

She slips over the edge, regains her balance, turns and looks

back at the intersection below, and begins to get down from

the edge.

Jenny grabs a hold of the ledge and carefully climbs down.

She sits down on a chair. Jenny rocks back and forth as she

cries. She looks up at the sky.

EXT. BAYOU LA BATRE/FORREST'S BOAT - NIGHT

The moon shines above in the sky. Forrest lies in a hammock

on his boat.

EXT. FORREST'S BOAT/BAYOU DOCK - DAY

Forrest stands at the helm of his boat and slowly glides by

the docks. Forrest looks around and notices something and

bends down to get a clear view. Lt. Dan sits in his wheelchair

on the deck. Forrest looks at Lt. Dan. He smiles, surprised.

Forrest leaps off of his moving boat and into the water. The

boat continues as Forrest clumsily swims. Lt. Dan sits in

his wheelchair at the edge of the dock. Forrest flails his

arms as he swims up to the dock. Lt. Dan waits for Forrest,

smoking a cigar. Forrest climbs up a ladder onto the dock.

Forrest shakes Lt. Dan's hand.

Forrest's boat glides, crushing a dock. Forrest and Lt. Dan

look at it.

EXT. BAYOU LA BATRE WATERS - DAY

Forrest's shrimping boat is alone on the gulf waters.

Forrest looks up. Lt. Dan is sitting in the rigging.

Forrest empties the net. Their "catch" is debris that falls

to the deck.

INT. SMALL CHURCH - DAY

The all-black gospel choir sings and claps their hands.

Lt. Dan is sitting in his chair at the back of the church.

He takes swigs from a liquor bottle.

EXT. BOAT - ANOTHER DAY

A catch of junk is dumped onto the deck. Lt. Dan lowers

himself from the rigging.

The wind begins to blow strong.

EXT. BOAT - NIGHT

Water sprays on deck during a hurricane. Lt. Dan on the

rigging, shouts and shakes his fist as he is pelted by wind

and rain.

Forrest slides back and forth as he attempts to steer the

boat.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

An ANCHORMAN over TV, is standing in front of a pier.

EXT. BAYOU DOCKS - DAY

The anchorman is standing in front of the ruined pier and

boats.

INT. GUMP HOUSE

Forrest's boat comes down the river.

FORREST'S BOAT - DAY

Lt. Dan and Forrest empty their net. A huge catch of shrimp

falls onto the deck. Lt. Dan opens another big catch.

Another catch drops open on top of yet another huge catch.

Forrest and Lt. Dan smile.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

The man sitting on the bench listens to Forrest. An ELDERLY

WOMAN sits next to the man.

The man laughs as he walks away.

Forrest shows her the cover of a "Fortune" magazine with

Forrest and Lt. Dan on the cover.

The elderly woman looks at the magazine and at Forrest with

surprise.

EXT. BOAT/DECK - DAY

Forrest and Lt. Dan are working on the boat.

Forrest looks a little surprised. Lt. Dan smiles, then looks

away. Lt. Dan pulls himself out of his chair to the railing

and jumps into the water.

EXT. BOAT

Forrest and Lt. Dan have dinner on the deck. The television

shows an assassination attempt on President Gerald Ford.

Forrest dives into the water as he reacts.

EXT. ROAD/GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Forrest carries a suitcase as he runs down the road. Forrest

runs past the row of mailboxes and turns into the drive.

Louise and others are on the front porch.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - WOMAN'S BED ROOM

Forrest opens the door, the doctor stands next to Mrs. Gump

in bed.

The doctor looks down at Forrest's legs.

The doctor leaves and closes the door. Forrest takes off his

hat and steps over to her.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

The elderly woman and Forrest sit. The woman is crying and

wipes her eyes with a hankie.

A bus stops. Forrest looks at the elderly woman.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD - DAY

Forrest rides a lawn tractor as he moves the football field

lawn.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE MAILBOXES

Forrest takes out a letter and opens it.

EXT. BUS STOP

INT. CHURCH - DAY The choir and members are singing.

EXT. CHURCH

The sign reads: "Four Square Baptist Church." A new cross is

placed on the steeple. New furniture is taken inside.

EXT. HOSPITAL - DAY

The sign reads: "Gump Medical Center Bayou La Batre, Alabama."

The ribbon-cutting ceremony.

EXT. BUBBA'S MOM'S HOUSE

A postman delivers a letter to Bubba's mom. She opens the

letter.

She is surrounded by her many children. She looks at the

check and faints.

EXT. BUS STOP

INT. FLORIDA CONDO

A door opens as a white woman serves Bubba's mom some shrimp.

EXT. FOOTBALL FIELD

Forrest rides the mower.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE BALCONY - NIGHT

Forrest looks down the road as he steps onto the porch.

Jenny's image walks, then vanishes. Forrest looks away. He

turns and walks into the house.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Jenny walks across the lawn to Forrest.

INT. GUMP HOUSE

Jenny lies asleep in bed.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Forrest and Jenny walking.

Jenny's old house stands at the end of the dirt road. It

appears to be deserted. Jenny walks toward the house and

stops. She stares at the house. Forrest walks toward Jenny.

Jenny suddenly heaves a rock angrily at the house. She throws

other things at the house.

She breaks a window. Jenny collapses to the ground and sobs.

Forrest knees down next to her.

EXT. OLD OAK TREE - DAY

Jenny and Forrest sit on a limb together.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Jenny sits by the vase of flowers and look out the window.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Forrest closes his eyes as he sits on the porch. Jenny places

a box of Nike running shoes in his lap.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT

Through the windows, Forrest and Jenny are dancing as it

rains outside.

EXT. RIVER - NIGHT

Jenny and Forrest sit on a log together and look at the river.

Jenny places her arms around Forrest.

The fireworks explode in the sky.

INT. GUMP'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The Statue of Liberty is shown on the TV. Fireworks go off.

Forrest and Jenny are watching the 4th of July celebration

on TV.

Jenny stands up and kisses Forrest on the cheek.

Jenny turns off the TV and walks outside. Forrest stands as

he puts down his Dr. Pepper. Jenny walks toward the stairs.

Forrest turns and walks toward the door. Jenny turns and

walks up the stairs. Forrest stands outside.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT

The house stands in the rain.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT

Forrest lies in his bed as the door opens. Jenny gets into

bed next to Forrest.

Jenny and Forrest kiss. Jenny takes off her nightgown as

they make love.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - MORNING

Jenny carries her purse and walks toward a waiting cab.

INT. GUMP HOUSE

The cab drives away as Forrest is asleep in his bed. The

Congressional Medal lies on a table by a ping-pong paddle.

Forrest holds a glass of milk and wears his bathrobe. He

looks at the medal he had give to Jenny. Jenny's bed is made.

Forrest stands in the doorway looking at the room and bed

where Jenny had been.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - DAY

Forrest sit on a rocking chair with his running shoes on. He

is still, as if in a trance. He slowly puts on his Bubba-

Gump cap. Forrest stands. He walks off the porch. He begins

to jog across the lawn. His speed increases as he runs farther

away. Forrest runs down the drive away from his house.

Forrest runs to the end of the drive, then turns right and

runs down the highway.

INT. BARBER SHOP - DAY

The three men sit as they watch the television. Forrest runs

through the main street of town.

EXT. ALABAMA ROAD

The sign reads "Entering Greenbow County."

Forrest runs by a sign that reads "Mississippi welcomes you.

The Magnolia State."

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

EXT. SANTA MONICA - DAY

The sign reads "Santa Monica yacht harbor sports fishing -

boating - cafes." Forrest runs under the sign and onto the

pier.

EXT. ATLANTIC OCEAN

Forrest runs to a pier at the Atlantic Ocean.

Forrest runs across the pier. A lighthouse stands at the end

of the pier.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

EXT. HIGHWAY

Forrest is running along the highway. Forrest runs down a

road between field of wheat. A Mountain river. Forrest runs

across a cobble-stone bridge. The Rocky Mountains are behind

him in distance. Forrest runs through some meadowland.

Split rail fences line the road.

EXT. BARBER SHOP

The three men in the barber shop watch the news on television.

INT. COFFEE SHOP

Jenny fills customer's coffee cups.

The TV shows Forrest runs across a bridge that reads

"Mississippi River."

EXT. MISSISSIPPI BRIDGE

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

EXT. SMALL EASTERN TOWN

Forrest runs as a YOUNG MAN runs up to him.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

EXT. SMALL EASTERN TOWN

The young man jobs behind Forrest.

Forrest runs up a slope on a high mountain road. A group of

people are jogging behind him.

A large group jogs behind Forrest across the desert road.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

Forrest and his followers job through a small town. A man

runs up and talks to Forrest.

The hippie jumps over the "dogshit" as he runs along Forrest.

The hippie stops to ponder this profound thought.

A bumper sticker reads "Shit Happens."

The truck with the bumper sticker drives into an intersection.

It collides with a car.

EXT. TRUCK STOP

Forrest runs, followed by his group, as a man runs up to

him.

A truck splashes mud onto Forrest as it goes by. The man

hands Forrest a yellow T-shirt to use as a rag to wipe the

mud off.

Forrest wipes his face on the towel and hands it back to the

man.

The man looks at the T-shirt. He holds it up displaying the

"Happy Face."

EXT. MONUMENT VALLEY

Forrest runs with a group that follows behind him.

Forrest stops running. The group stops behind him. Forrest

stands and looks as the group waits expectantly. Forrest

turns and look.

Forrest walks toward the group. The group parts for Forrest

as he walks down the middle of the road.

A television shows President Reagan and his staff as they

react to gunshots in front of a limo.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

Forrest sits eating a sandwich, watching the news of the

assassination attempt.

EXT. BUS STOP - PRESENT

Forrest takes the letter out of his pocket.

The elderly woman looks at the letter.

Forrest hastily grabs his suitcase and letter as he stands.

Forrest runs, the elderly woman shouts from the bus stop

bench. A truck honks its horn as Forrest runs across the

street past the truck.

INT. JENNY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Jenny opens the door.

Jenny shuts the door. Forrest looks around.

Forrest hands Jenny the box of chocolates.

Jenny picks up a scrapbook and turns the pages.

There is a knock at the door. LYNN MARIE enters as she opens

the door.

Jenny grabs a young boy.

Lynn Marie closes the door and waves bye to Forrest.

The little boy runs into other room and picks up TV remote

control.

Forrest continues to stare at Forrest Jr. Forrest then looks

frightened and starts to back away.

Jenny turns and looks at Forrest Jr. in the other room.

Forrest breathes deep. He looks at Jenny, then at Forrest

Jr.

Forrest walks into the room and sits down next to Forrest

Jr. "Sesame Street" is on the TV.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Forrest and Jenny sit on a bench. Forrest Jr. swings behind

them.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - DAY

A group has gathered on the lawn for the wedding. Louise

walks up to Forrest.

Jenny walks out of the house. Forrest walks over to greet

her. She wears a white dress. She walks up to Forrest and

adjusts his necktie.

Lt. Dan is walking across the lawn. He uses a cane. A WOMAN

is walking next to him.

Jenny walks over to Forrest and Lt. Dan.

Lt. Dan lifts his pant leg to display his metal leg.

Susan shakes Forrest's hand.

Jenny steps forward and kisses Lt. Dan's cheek. The group is

seated as they watch Forrest and Jenny take vows on the front

lawn. Forrest Jr. stands next to Jenny.

The wind blows fallen leaves across the ground. Jenny,

Forrest, and Forrest Jr. walk toward the house. They all

hold hands as they walk.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - MORNING

Forrest steps into Jenny's bedroom. He carries a tray with

breakfast on it. Forrest looks at Jenny as she sleeps.

Slowly she wakes up and looks at Forrest.

Forrest sets the tray down next to Jenny as she sits up in

bed. Forrest opens a window, then sits down next to the bed.

EXT. VIETNAM - FLASHBACK - NIGHT

Forrest looks up into the sky as the rain stops. Forrest

removes his helmet. The stars emerge from behind the clouds.

EXT. BAYOU - FLASHBACK - SUNSET

Forrest stands on his boat and looks at a deep orange and

red sunset.

EXT. MOUNTAIN LAKE - FLASHBACK - DAY

Forrest runs along a highway. A lake reflects the mountains

and the sky.

EXT. DESERT - FLASHBACK - SUNRISE

Forrest runs along a desert highway. The morning light casts

an orange glow over the desert.

INT. GUMP HOUSE - MORNING

Forrest looks at Jenny. Jenny looks out the window.

Jenny reaches over and takes Forrest's hand.

EXT. JENNY'S GRAVE AT OLD OAK TREE - DAY

Forrest stands under the old oak tree where Jenny has been

buried.

Jenny's grave marker. Forrest tries to hold back his tears.

EXT. JENNY'S OLD HOUSE - DAY

Forrest watches as Jenny's dad's house is knocked down by a

bulldozer.

EXT. JENNY'S GRAVE

Jenny's grave marker reads: JENNY GUMP July 16, 1945 -- March

22, 1982 Beloved Mother, Wife and Friend

INT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT

Forrest Jr. reads a book to Forrest sitting next to him.

EXT. JENNY'S GRAVE

Forrest looks down as he sobs.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE - NIGHT

Forrest tries to teach Forrest Jr. how to play ping-pong.

Forrest Jr. serves the ball, causing Forrest dive and miss

it.

EXT. GUMP HOUSE/RIVER - DAY

Forrest and Forrest Jr. sit on a log by the river and fish.

EXT. JENNY'S GRAVE

Forrest looks down at the grave marker.

Forrest places the letter down at the grave marker, next to

fresh flowers. The name on the envelope reads: "Mom." Forrest

steps back and looks down at the grave.

As Forrest walks away, a flock of birds flies overhead and

lands in the tree. Forrest turns and watches.

EXT. ROAD - MORNING

Forrest walks with Forrest Jr. for the bus. The bus drives

toward them.

Forrest pulls "Curious George" out of Forrest Jr.'s backpack.

Forrest looks at the book. The feather from the beginning of

the movie drops out of the book, unnoticed.

The bus comes to a stop. The door opens.

Forrest puts the book back into Forrest Jr.'s backpack and

hands it to him.

Forrest Jr. walks toward the bus. Forrest stands up.

Forrest Jr. looks into the bus and at the bus driver. It is

the same bus driver, only older now, who drove Forrest to

school when he was a young boy.

Forrest Jr. looks over and waves to his father. Forrest nods

approvingly.

Forrest Jr. gets on the bus. The bus pulls away. Forrest

stands next to the mailbox.

Forrest sits down. The camera cranes down, revealing the

feather as it lies at Forrest's feet.

A gust of wind picks the feather up. The feather floats up

into the air.

Forrest sits at the side of the road. The feather floats

higher into the air.

The feather soars up into the sky and travels up and down,

then covers the camera lens.

