INT. REGIS & KATHIE LEE SHOW SET

A horribly deformed figure--hunchback, misshapen head--sits

on a stool in complete silhouette. This is RICK COOGAN.

Oddly, REGIS and KATHIE LEE are also in complete silhouette.

The audience CRACKS UP. Kathie Lee pooh-poohs Regis.

INT. E.E.S. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

The E.E.S. logo--a large metal shoe with a bar across it,

with the words "Everything Except Shoes" beneath. Widen to

reveal RICHARD HERTZ, president of E.E.S., smiling rigidly to

camera. RICK COOGAN is next to him, also holding a stiff

movie-star smile. FLASH! They shake hands as the EES

photographer takes publicity shots. Off to one side, behind

Hertz, are several EES EXECUTIVES. Behind Rick is his

entourage: LAWYER, BODYGUARD, TRAINER, STYLIST, and SPIRIT

GUIDE.

Further off, at the boardroom table, four DODDERING OLD

CORPORATE FARTS on the brink of death look on with glazed

expressions.

He laughs pathetically. Rick doesn't respond. Hertz nods to

a nearby EXECUTIVE who hands him some BEEF STICKS.

Rick takes them and holds them up to the camera. Smiles.

Flash.

He takes the hair spray and holds it up. Smile. Flash.

The assistant carefully hands Hertz a pulsating metal

container with lots of warnings and danger symbols on it.

Hertz gives it to Rick.

Rick holds it up, then pushes it away in disgust.

He gives the finger to the EES photographer, who obligingly

takes a picture. Hertz waves at him to get lost, and calls

after Rick who's headed to the door with his entourage.

Hertz lets out a big laugh. He shakes his head at Rick.

Rick nods to his entourage. They sit at the boardroom table,

across from the EES execs. An easel behind Hertz shows a

placard with a bar graph. Hertz whispers something to an

aide, who scurries off.

The aide ushers in a handsome LATIN AMERICAN EXECUTIVE in a

natty three-piece suit and a sombrero.

George glares at Hertz bitterly. Hertz stares him down.

Rick nods. We cut back to George, but he isn't George

anymore. He has mutated into a similar looking actor, in the

same suit, the same sombrero, but shorter and swarthier.

Rick furrows his brow. He's a little suspicious of George's

transformation, but just a little.

Now George is even shorter, even swarthier. Yet another

actor.

Rick's suspicion is increasing. He looks over to Hertz, who

feigns total innocence.

George is now even shorter. Still another actor. His

clothes are baggy, and the sombrero is starting to slide down

over his face.

Rick looks at his entourage. Their mouths hang open in

astonishment.

George has now shrunk to near-midget proportions. The

sombrero completely covers his head. When he takes it off,

we see he's now played by LINDA HUNT!

Rick is ready to ask questions, but Hertz cuts him off.

George nods and heads back to his seat. As he passes behind

Hertz, he can't resist sticking his thumbs in his ears and

making a face.

The aide reveals a new placard on the easel. It reads "$2

MILLION."

Hertz reaches beside his chair and pulls a lever. The old

geezers beside him raise their arms stiffly, as if they were

being pulled by strands of fishing line, which they are.

Rick looks at his advisors--they look over at Linda Hunt,

then emphatically shake their heads "NO." Rick looks at

Hertz, who shows him five big fingers and grins. Rick breaks

into a big smile and gives Hertz his trademark thumbs up

sign.

INT. L.A. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECK

Rick stands in line at the luggage X-ray machine. He

impatiently checks his watch as the X-RAY CHECKER chats him

up. A CRAZED ANARCHIST holding a large bomb passes through

the security check unquestioned.

We hear WOMEN'S SCREAMS. They turn towards the noise and see

a bunch of STEWARDESSES scattering from a trendy young cad

with a fake hand sticking out of his fly. This is ERNIE,

Rick's buddy and resident court jester.

Rick pumps Ernie's third "hand." The miffed X-ray checker

points to Rick's large carry-on bag as it emerges from the X-

ray machine.

He indicates the X-ray monitor, where we see the skeleton

outline of a BUCKTOOTHED, BESPECTACLED 10 YEAR OLD KID curled

up in Rick's bag. The kid waves. Rick and Ernie look at

each other in horror.

The bag bursts open, and out pops STUEY GLUCK, an obsessive

young autograph hound toting a stack of scrapbooks and

memorabilia.

Ernie nods and yanks the bag away from under Stuey. They run

away down the corridor. Stuey chases them, holding up an 8

by 10 photo.

FURTHER DOWN THE CORRIDOR

Rick and Ernie run around a corner with Stuey in pursuit.

He holds up a cassette player and hits play. It's Rick's old

speech.

Ernie leads Rick down an adjacent hallway.

IN THE HALLWAY

It's a dead end. Rick and Ernie are trapped. Ernie gives

Rick a sheepish look. Stuey stands at the entrance of the

hallway. He holds up a Time magazine.

Stuey starts to cry. Rick looks guilty.

BAM! A passing electric baggage cart nails Stuey at full

speed and carries him off down the corridor, screaming bloody

murder.

Rick and Ernie high five.

INT. FIRST CLASS CABIN - DAY

A SEXY STEWARDESS pours champagne for Rick and Ernie. The

anarchist sits nearby with the bomb on his lap. Rick winks

suggestively at the stewardess. She walks off, obviously not

interested. Rick raises his glass to Ernie, oozing sleazy

confidence.

The plane hits turbulence, and Rick's drink flies up out of

his glass--he catches it as it comes down. Another

STEWARDESS helps the Anarchist put his bomb in the overhead

compartment. Ernie ogles her. She sneers at him. We hear

the CAPTAIN'S voice on the loudspeaker.

All the passengers crane their necks to the right.

Rick turns to his window and flings open the shade to

reveal...

on the wing, pressing his face up against the glass. He's

holding up a publicity shot of Rick and screaming something

we can't hear.

Stuey loses his grip and is whisked off the wing. Rick

watches him fall into oblivion.

Relieved, he turns nonchalantly to Ernie, ignoring the other

horrified passengers.

EXT. FARM DAY

A large haystack sits in the middle of a field. We hear

Stuey's approaching scream.

THUD! Stuey misses the haystack by a few feet. He hops to

his feet and dusts himself off.

BONK! His scrapbook falls into frame and beans him.

EXT. SANTA FLAN AIRPORT - DAY

We see the airliner lowering its landing gear as it makes its

final approach to the runway.

KA-BLOOEY! The plane explodes in a fireball. Swish-pan to

reveal...

RICK AND ERNIE

Standing just outside the airport. A porter follows with

their bags.

Ernie nods. They're distracted by the sound of chanting.

They squint into the distance, where they see a group of

chanting PROTESTERS--young "Save the Earth" types, latter-day

hippies, kids, seniors, etc.

Some of their signs read--"Say No to Noxon!", "Coogan Go

Home", "EES is killing our Earth!", "Ricky Coogan Sucks Shit"

(this one held by a nice LITTLE GIRL), "I Like Ike" (held by

a confused OLD MAN, shuffling around aimlessly), "Drink

Pepsi" and finally...

"Free Nelson Mandela"--we WIDEN to reveal the subheading:

"Inside specially marked boxes." We keep WIDENING to reveal

that this is not on a protest placard, but a box of cereal

some GUY is eating as he watches the protest.

Off to the side, away from the protesters, an unmarked limo

with tinted windows (and plates that say NOT EES) awaits.

KEVIN, an EES exec, leans out the window and waves discreetly

at Ricky. The stewardesses, looking tipsy, wave their bras

out the back window invitingly.

Ernie tries to grab Ricky by the arm, but he resists. He's

looking at the protesters.

His POV...

A BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN

standing in the center of the crowd of protesters, holding a

MEGAPHONE to her mouth and chanting. She puts down the

megaphone to rest, and we can see that she's powerfully

beautiful, in a no-nonsense feminist kind of way. This is

JULIE. Rick is smitten.

Rick spots a HEAVILY BANDAGED MAN limping out of the airport

on crutches. Rick approaches him, waving a roll of bills.

The man mutters something weakly. Ernie puts his ear up

close to hear him better.

buried beneath rolls and rolls of bandages, making his way

through the protesters on crutches. Ernie helps him along,

nervously. As Rick spots Julie from behind, he hands the

crutches over to Ernie.

Ernie takes the crutches. Rick waves his arms dramatically,

clutches his bandaged legs, and winces in pain.

He falls theatrically at Julie's feet.

Julie's buying it big time. She gazes deep into Rick's eyes.

Ernie sticks a hand out, grinning sarcastically.

Julie turns on Ernie viciously. She slaps him hard, and

grabs the crutches from him.

Rick rises to his feet "painfully."

She looks at Ernie, who grins stupidly.

Ernie glares at Rick. Rick smiles at Julie hopefully. Julie

looks at them both, and can't help smiling herself.

INT. CAR - DAY

Ernie drives the battered old convertible which bears the

proud logo of Santa Flan Rent-a-Car. There's a Pepsi

billboard in the background. Julie massages Rick in the back

seat.

ERNIE'S POV IN THE REAR VIEW MIRROR

Rick moans and cracks a huge grin through his bandages.

Ernie tries to get in on the conversation.

Disgusted, Julie smacks Ernie sharply and continues massaging

Rick. Scowling with jealousy, Ernie tries a new approach.

Rick grits his teeth.

Enraged, Rick rips the bandages off his face.

Julie stares at him in shock. Rick catches his breath,

realizes what he's just done, and smiles weakly. Ernie tries

to break the awkward silence.

Julie gives him a murderous look.

EXT. DIRT HIGHWAY - LATER

High wide shot: The car is descending deeper into the wild

jungle, towards a huge eerie sunset.

IN THE CAR

Julie's been lecturing Rick for some time now.

on the road behind Julie he sees a crude carnival billboard

featuring a painting of a huge worm with a man's head. It

reads "See the Incredabel Humin Werm! Only at Elijah C.

Skuggs Famus Freek Land." Julie can't see it.

Rick sees another billboard for the freak show. This one

features a half-man/half-dog creature and says "See the

Aztownding Dawg Boy!"

Another billboard. This one features the "Hidyous Frawg

Man."

She turns away from him in a huff and looks out her window.

She sees a billboard that reads "See The Hole Amazing Famly

of Freekz at Elijah C. Skuggs Famus Freek Land and Mutent

Emporeum!"

EXT. JUNGLE ROADWAY

The car turns into a driveway near a crude, hand painted sign

that says "FreekzTM--Thiss waey" with a messy arrow...

We ZOOM IN to the hand painted "small print" on the bottom of

the sign, which reads--"Freekz is a registered trademark of

Elijah C. Skuggs Enterprises. Any unauthorized reproduction

is strictly prohibited without prior written consent."

EXT. FREEKZ COMPOUND

The car stops at the end of the long, spooky driveway, just

past a sizzling electric fence. Rick, Julie, and Ernie get

out and look around. It's eerily quiet.

There is a large dilapidated mining shed complete with rusted

ducts and a tall smoke stack, a tattered carnival tent with

an ornate stage flat facade, a lopsided outhouse, a creepy

broken-down farm house, and in the center of it all, a giant

molded carnival head with big staring eyes, which slowly

rotates on a creaky base.

Ernie looks hard at the big eyes. He turns away for a

second, then spins around again. The EYES are looking in a

different direction. Ernie shakes his head and unwraps a

chocolate bar.

Startled, they turn to see ELIJAH C. SKUGGS, a twisted,

haggard old man. He takes a bite out of an ice cream cone

which contains the rear half of a chipmunk with a maraschino

cherry on top. Elijah has bad teeth, a bad shave, and scary

eyes. We now realize the giant head is molded in his image.

Elijah ignores him. Julie shoots him a look and smiles at

Elijah.

Elijah smiles, unfazed. Julie glares at Rick. She smiles

apologetically at Elijah.

Elijah nudges Ernie.

Ernie shrugs. He goes to take a bite out of his chocolate

bar and finds only the empty wrapper left in his hand.

He looks behind him, and there--about ten feet away--is...

A HULKING BALD MAN

warts all over, squatting on the ground and chewing happily.

This is TOAD.

Julie and Rick turn and see him.

Toad doesn't respond to her waves.

Rick and Ernie pretend to be disappointed. They turn to

leave. Julie's sincerely upset.

Elijah grabs Rick's shoulder and turns him around.

He raises his cigarette to his lips, but it's gone! He turns

to see Toad, ten feet behind him, puffing away happily.

Hmmm. Elijah is already leading Julie towards the shed.

He looks over to Rick and Ernie with a grin that says

"Where'd you find this nutty chick?"

Rick shrugs and follows, taking Ernie with him.

Elijah holds the shed door open for them. It's pitch black

inside. Julie enters. Rick and Ernie follow.

A CUTE BUNNY

sits outside the shed. THWAP! Toad lashes out with his ten

foot tongue, and sucks the bunny into his mouth. He shuffles

into the shed, crunching contentedly.

Elijah closes the shed doors in our face, grinning. we hear

a lonq peal of EVIL LAUGHTER from inside.

INT. SHED

It's dark and spooky. Elijah stands in a pool of light,

reading a Family Circus cartoon in the funny pages.

He turns to...

RICK, JULIE, AND.ERNIE

as Toad finishes strapping them onto massive Frankenstein-

style operating tables. They struggle desperately against

Rick, Julie, and Ernie shoot him a look that pretty well

answers his question. Elijah shrugs and goes back to his

spiel.

He pulls a tarp off a huge complicated machine. Several

drums and vats of various chemicals feed through a crude

network of pipes, gadgets and computers into an old Tasty

Freeze soft serve ice cream machine (The logo has been

changed to "Tasty Freekz"). The biggest vat reads "NOXON

24."

He holds up a matching towel and washcloth embroidered with

the "Ramada Inn" logo. Rick, Julie, and Ernie gasp. He

tosses the towels.

As Elijah gets worked up into a frenzy, the ambience in the

room becomes more and more horrific: the sunlight is replaced

by an eerie green glow, a thunderstorm rumbles to life, a

raven perches on the windowsill, a rat scurries across the

floor, one of those plastic "Bony Banks" reaches out and

grabs a quarter...

Elijah's hair is now standing on end. He's foaming at the

mouth. A bolt of lightning and THUNDERCLAP cap the

monologue.

Toad is adjusting some knobs on the machine. Elijah steps

past him to a jerry-rigged computer console. He punches some

keys and some rotating DNA models appear on the monitor.

He presses "enter" and the computer beeps. He smiles.

Toad yanks a pull-start cord and the machine rumbles to life.

Elijah pulls the Tasty Freekz lever and fills a small dish

with phosphorescent ointment. Toad cuts open their clothes,

exposing their sides, and pushes them close together.

Elijah smears the ointment on their exposed sides. Their

skin begins to bubble and undulate.

A grapefruit-sized lump pops up on Ernie's side, then another

on Julie's side, and then the lumps do a little synchronized

dance together. Suddenly Ernie's flesh balloons out and

melds into Julie's side. The mass of connected skin

continues to bubble and mutate. Odd shapes press up under

Four humans faces that quickly become Mount Rushmore...

The Pepsi logo--"Pepsi: The Choice of a New Generation"...

Julie and Ernie merge into one amorphous flesh blob which

then takes the form of...

Demon versions of GUMBY and his magic horse POKEY. Gumby's

got his back to camera. He's grabbing his crotch and

flipping everyone off.

Gumby and Pokey mutate back into a blob and then into...

joined side to side, their two heads on a single body which

is split down the middle--half Julie, half Ernie. Elijah

wheels a large mirror in front of them.

She SMACKS him.

He starts blubbering uncontrollably. Toad drags them towards

the door.

They exit. Elijah turns to Rick.

Elijah steps over to the computer console and starts punching

keys.

Rick nods hopefully. Elijah considers it for a moment, then

frowns.

Toad starts the machine. Elijah pulls the lever and

dispenses a bowl full of glowing ointment. He carries it

towards Rick, leering maniacally.

Elijah squishes the ointment into Rick's horrified face.

EXT. THE LAB - NIGHT

The barn looks especially sinister silhouetted against a big

green moon. A huge ball of flame belches out of the smoke

stack.

EXT. THE LAB - MORNING

It's eerily quiet in the dawn light.

INT. LAB

Extreme close-up of Rick's eye as it opens, and searches the

room frantically. Close-up of Rick's hand--a normal hand--

straining at the bonds.

RICK's POV groggily searches the lab, and picks up the

blurred image of Elijah in the distance. He's on the phone,

speaking in hushed tones.

For a moment, Elijah is entertained by hold music to the tune

of "Freak Out," by Chic. A man's laughing voice comes on the

other end of the line. It laughs throughout the

"conversation".

Laughing man has stopped laughing. Elijah dummies up.

Laughing man resumes laughing. Elijah listens intently.

Laughing Man laughs so loudly Elijah has to hold the phone

away.

Over on the slab, Rick groans. He's waking up. Elijah

notices.

Elijah hangs up the phone, and strides over towards Rick.

He flips the slab right-side up, and holds up a mirror.

Rick's eyes widen in terror as he beholds his hideous new

form. Rick's left half has been transformed into a hideous,

bug-eyed monster!

EXT. LAB - MORNING

BANG! The doors fly open. Elijah drags Rick out.

Horrified, Rick clutches the monster side of his face.

Elijah stops in front of the tiny outhouse.

He unlocks the door and drags Rick in.

INT. OUTHOUSE

Oddly, the interior is a vast barracks, fifty feet long and

thirty feet high. Rick looks around.

BOB VILA walks up next to Elijah.

He pushes Bob away into the freak house, gives Rick a goodbye

wink and walks out the door.

EXT. OUTHOUSE

Elijah pauses and looks at the tiny outhouse.

Bob Vila steps out of nowhere again, holding a Time-Life

book.

BONK! Elijah knocks him out cold with a ball-peen hammer

from his tool belt.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

It takes a few moments for Rick's eyes to adjust to the dim

light. There's nobody in sight. The walls are lined with

dark cubicles, stacked atop each other with walkways like

prison cells. Rick staggers to his feet, and makes his way

forward.

Rick sees the vague outline of JulieErnie a few yards away.

Rick steps forward into a pool of light. Julie and Ernie are

caught by surprise. Julie struggles to keep her composure.

Ernie's repulsed.

Ernie turns away and pukes on the floor. Julie soldiers on.

Julie turns away and pukes on the floor.

Rick wheels around to see JUAN THE DOG BOY, snickering behind

him. Juan is a hairy young Mexican with a snout, dog ears,

and canine teeth--Scrappy Doo with an attitude.

Rick assumes a threatening pose.

Juan scratches himself behind the ear with his hind leg.

He extends a hand to Rick. Rick doesn't take it. He hears a

slight RUSTLING noise from the direction of the cubicles, and

turns to look around the apparently empty Freak House.

Juan shrugs mischievously and sticks his snout in Rick's

face.

The top right cubicle lights up, revealing the WORM. He is a

man with no arms and legs, and the wrinkly, slimy body of a

worm. His face is learned-looking, with spectacles, a small

goatee, and a pipe which he puffs on pompously.

He puffs pensively on his pipe for a second.

The worm takes a long, thoughtful drag on his pipe...

The lights come on in 9 of the center cubicles, silhouetting

9 freaks in a full size HOLLYWOOD SQUARES 3 x 3 layout. The

FREAKS applaud Rick's success. He's incredulous.

Worm nudges an "0" into place in his cubicle, with some

difficulty. He's not happy about being proved wrong.

As Juan names the freaks one by one, their square is

highlighted, and they wave at Rick cheerily.

NOSEY is a man whose massive nose dominates his head. He

blows into a huge hanky, and waves it wearily at Rick.

COWBOY is a young boy with cow-like features, a cowboy hat,

cowboy clothes, and a full set of udders.

The BEARDED LADY is a big, tough, bearded man--in a blouse.

He has lipstick, earrings, and tattoos on his muscular arms.

SOCKHEAD is a freak with a large button-eyed sock puppet for

a head. He's munching cookies which ,spill uselessly out of

his throatless sock mouth...

The HUMAN TORCH is a man engulfed in flames. He waves

apathetically.

ROSIE is a pinhead in dark sunglasses. She has a great bod

jammed into a sexy dress. She smokes a cigarette demurely,

and waves a small, arrogant big-star wave.

Frogman is just a guy in a scuba outfit. He strikes a

threatening "monster" pose, then gives a friendly wave.

Suddenly the lighting changes to flashing red horror lights

with plenty of dark shadows. There's a horrific MUSIC STING

and we ZOOM IN to a DECOMPOSING SKELETON in the center

cubicle. Its eyeball drips out of the socket.

They argue back and forth, hitting and poking each other 3

Stooges style. Juan turns to Rick.

Rick is overwhelmed by it all. He backs away.

The Freaks laugh in Rick's face. He storms off.

ANOTHER AREA OF THE FREAK HOUSE--A LITTLE LATER

Rick sits in a corner, pondering his fate. Oddly, there's a

shiny new Pepsi machine in this dingy corner of the Freak

House. JulieErnie approach him.

Rick shoots him a look.

She tries to wring his neck. Ernie helps. Rick glares at

Ernie.

Julie regains her cool. She takes out a pamphlet, scribbles

something on it, and hands it to Rick.

Rick examines the cover. He reads it aloud.

There's an "8" scribbled on the pamphlet.

He throws the-pamphlet to the ground, just as the Worm,

Bearded Lady, and Sockhead approach. They sit down in a

circle around him. The Worm looks down at the pamphlet and

puffs thoughtfully on his pipe.

EXT. FREAK COMPOUND - THE PAST

The Worm, as an OXFORD PROFESSOR, is wandering around the

grounds, taking notes and puffing on his pipe.

We see professor Worm meet Elijah, and follow him into the

lab. The smoke stack belches a plume of flames as we hear

his off-camera screams. DISSOLVE back to..

THE FREAK HOUSE--NOW

The Worm finishes his tale.

He sniffles a little, but manages to hold back the tears. We

pan to Sockhead.

EXT. FREAKLAND - THEN

A lanky TOURIST, obviously Sockhead in better days. He

approaches Elijah.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - NOW

Sockhead shrugs apologetically.

The camera moves in on the BEARDED LADY.

EXT. FREAKLAND - THEN

The bearded lady (as a man) steps out of the cab of his

eighteen-wheeler. He looks very much like he does now,

except he has no lipstick or earrings.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - NOW

He finishes his story.

The others look at the bearded man uneasily. The camera pans

past the Bearded Lady, and moves in on an ordinary HAMMER

lying on the ground.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY

Happy music. The hammer is placed on a shelf by a friendly

STOCKBOY. The music turns tense as Elijah appears and scans

the shelf. He makes eye contact with the hammer, and smiles.

He grabs the hammer roughly and shoves it in a plastic bag.

Darkness.

EXT. FREAKLAND - THEN

The bag opens, Elijah reaches in and takes out the hammer.

The music turns to Psycho-like string stabs as Elijah uses

the hammer to smash in a nail.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - NOW

Everyone looks at the hammer sympathetically. Rick turns

away to wipe a tear from his eye.

The worm shakes his head. The freaks turn and head back to

their cubicles. Rick exchanges a look with Julie before she

and Ernie turn and head off.

Rick is left alone, staring pensively at the hammer.

Hours later, Rick is still staring at the hammer. He picks

it up and stares at it more closely.

Hours later. Rick is still staring at the damn hammer. He

nods with resolve.

He spots the pamphlet on the ground, picks it up, dusts it

off. He opens it and begins to read, under the heading "1.

It's Fun Being Ugly!"...

Rick closes the pamphlet, looks at the number "8" Julie

scribbled, and nods with a sense of purpose. Standing up, he

throws the hammer carelessly aside into the muck, and walks

towards the cubicles.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY

Rick walks past the cubicles. In one, the Bearded Lady knits

a sweater... He reaches cubicle 8, and is about to speak

when he hears Julie giggling. There is a man's voice, but

not Ernie's. It's Juan.

Rick peeks around and sees Julie scratching Juan's belly. He

licks her face happily, and she giggles with delight. Ernie

is reading "The Woman's Room," trying not to notice all of

this.

Rick watches, disgusted. He tears up the pamphlet, throws it

to the ground, and storms off to find his own cubicle.

Ernie peeks at Julie and Juan continuing their foreplay.

Juan stops abruptly.

Ernie returns to his book. The camera PANS up to Rick's

cubicle. He's sitting on his cot, distractedly whittling a

log with his knife-like talon. He talks to himself, making

sure to be loud enough for JulieErnie and Juan to hear.

Rick looks up and sees a holographic image of Stuey Gluck

floating in the air above him.

He swings the log wildly at the hologram, but it keeps

darting around, dodging the blows. Cowboy leans around the

cubicle wall. He talks a lot like Gomer Pyle.

Rick stops swinging, lamely pretends he was stretching, and

ignores Stuey, who hovers around him.

He points at Sockhead, who's watching pro wrestling on a

portable TV.

Cowboy smiles and ducks back into his own cubicle.

He swings wildly at the hologram, which starts to break up

and fade away.

Stuey disappears. Cowboy leans into Rick's cubicle again.

Rick scoffs at him and starts whittling again.

INT. STUEY'S ROOM - DAY

It's a cramped room filled with Ricky Coogan memorabilia.

Stuey is drawing a crude sketch of Rick on a pad. This

sequence is set to brassy "man on a mission" music.

INT. L.A. TIMES HALLWAY

Stuey marches towards a frosted glass door that reads "THE

LOS ANGELES TIMES".

He walks through the door. Beat. SMASH! He comes flying

out through the glass and lands on his butt.

THE "TIME MAGAZINE" DOOR--SMASH! Stuey flies out through it.

THE "U.S.A. TODAY" DOOR--SMASH! Stuey flies out through it.

THE "WEEKLY WORLD NEWS" DOOR--We see Stuey and an EDITOR

silhouetted against the glass.

SMASH! Stuey dives through the glass door.

EXT. NEWSSTAND - DAY

Stuey proudly reads the weekly world News. The front page

features Stuey's story and his sketch of Rick.

Suddenly two GOONS in dark suits snatch the paper away from

Stuey. They grab him and force him into a limousine.

INT. LIMOUSINE

The Goons hold Stuey in between them.'He's terrified. we

hear the low, menacing chuckle of the Laughing Man, who's off

screen. The camera is his POV.

cruises off down the street. We hear a POWER DRILL, Stuey's

SCREAMS, and Laughing Man's hearty CACKLE from inside.

INT. RICK'S CUBICLE - NIGHT

Rick has whittled his log down to a toothpick. He admires

it, then leans over and fits it into an intricate three-foot

scale model of the Eiffel Tower, made entirely out of

toothpicks. The Human Torch walks by.

He reaches out to fix it and--WOOF! The whole model burns to

a cinder. Rick looks at him hatefully.

Elijah steps into the freakhouse.

EXT. CARNIVAL TENT

Elijah, looking natty in his Ringmaster suit, stands at the

entrance, barking to various people who are drifting in.

We follow a KINDLY FATHER through the curtained entrance.

OOF! He collapses, a knife embedded in his chest, revealing

the total mayhem...

INSIDE THE TENT

The motley crowd (LOCALS, sleazy looking MOBSTERS, rogue

BIKERS, wayward HIPPIES, and JAPANESE TOURISTS, etc.) is

brawling and drinking and having a heck of a time.

Some small displays and a few carnival booths are set up

around the sides of the tent. There's a "PETTING ZOO" where

a KID is petting a two-tailed-no-headed dog. And there's a

"HEAVY PETTING ZOO" where a GUY is french kissing a six-

legged goat.

A CLOWN sits in a dunk tank, heckling the customers. The

sign says "DUNK ME IN ACID!"

He's talking to an OLD LADY, who throws a baseball, hits the

target, and dunks the clown into the foaming bath of carbolic

acid. We hear his gurgling screams, then his bony hand

reaches up out of the bath.

Elijah walks out on stage and looks at the rowdy audience.

It's total mayhem.

Everyone instantly sits down, shuts up, and looks up

obediently at Elijah.

Two SENSITIVE LOOKING MEN wearing sweaters draped over their

shoulders politely get up and leave.

THREE MEN AND A BABY, all fused into a single multi-limbed

freak, walks out onstage. One of its arms holds up a dirty

diaper, and all the three men hold their noses and grimace.

The audience breaks into warm-hearted laughter and applause.

The freaks mill around in the caged-in green room, guarded by

Toad. Frogman, dressed in a magician's outfit over his

wetsuit, holds an empty dove cage and searches the room,

whistling for his missing dove. Nosey sneezes up a cloud of

feathers. JulieErnie walk determinedly towards the adjacent

Men's and Women's restrooms... BONK! They hit the wall

between the two doors.

Rick is reading his "script", rehearsing his lines. He's

wearing a cheesy "jungle" costume.

He peers through the bars, scanning the audience for signs.of

a rescue party.

The Worm creeps up behind Rick.

Rick groans and looks out at the audience.

onstage.

Rosie the Pinhead struts out wearing a sexy dress and holding

a microphone. After the applause dies down, she whips off

her sunglasses with a flourish, revealing her extremely goofy-

looking crossed eyes. She wails incomprehensibly and bonks

her head with the mic.

A series of WIPES show bits of various acts as the evening

are doing a Vaudeville style stand-up routine while tap

dancing.

She bonks him with their cane. He bonks her back. She

knocks him cold. They both fall down.

THE BEARDED LADY

is doing a make-over demonstration. He's got a local GIRL

from the audience sitting at a makeup table onstage.

The audience is engrossed. Some take notes.

is ringing those "tuned bells" and singing along.

He takes a bow but his sock is snagged on the mic stand. It

pulls off and reveals a normal-sized hand where the sockhead

was--he's actually a hand-head! The audience gasps. A MAN

gets up and points accusingly.

Sockhead realizes he's unveiled and tries to hide his hand-

head with his other hands. The crowd starts jeering and

pelting Sockhead with rotten vegetables. He gives them the

finger with all three hands. Elijah tries to calm them.

The Worm is still talking to Rick. We can hear the crowd

screaming for him in the background.

Rick is really moved. Elijah pokes his head backstage.

He starts to take off his jungle costume.

Rick claps him on the back and walks off. Worm is

disappointed.

Nosey gives him a worried look.

The spotlight reveals Rick, centerstage, poised in

Shakespearean garb. The crowd quiets down and focuses on

Rick with great respect and awe. A truly dramatic silence.

Rick pauses for effect and then launches into a soliloquy

with bravura.

The audience is riveted. Even Spanish-speaking peasants are

mouthing the words. Elijah, however, thumbs through his

script, totally confused. The freaks watch through the bars

from the wings--completely engrossed, especially Julie. Juan

notices this and pulls her closer to him, but she pushes him

away.

We move in on an erudite British gentlemen in the crowd. By

God! It's ALISTAIR COOKE! He turns to camera. Subtitle:

ALISTAIR COOKE.

A FILTHY PEASANT sitting next to Cooke is trying to listen to

Rick. He turns angrily to Cooke.

Cooke turns back to the stage. The words in brackets appear

as SUBTITLES.

Rick bows. The crowd bursts into applause. They yell

"Bravo" and throw bouquets. Rick takes several curtain

calls. The freaks cheer for him. Julie is particularly

moved--she and Rick exchange a heavy look, laden with

romantic potential. NOTE: We will insert an almost

subliminal one-frame shot of the Pepsi logo at this

triumphant moment.

Kevin, the EES executive from the airport scene, walks into

the tent. Rick sees him and gasps with joy. He leaps off

the stage, runs up to Kevin and hugs him. Kevin is shocked,

of course. Overcome by the moment, Rick regresses to his old

self.

The freaks and the audience gasp at Rick's cruelty. Julie is

shocked--Juan gives her an "I told you so" look. Rick sees

Julie and catches himself.

The crowd bursts into cruel hysterics, pointing mockingly at

Rick. Even Alistair Cooke is practically choking with

laughter.

Rick looks around, horrified at the sea of evil, jeering

faces. He begins to tremble. Then...

RICK'S MONSTER EYE

springs to life for the first time and glows red with rage.

His whole monster side awakens and takes charge of his body

with violent intensity. He grabs Kevin's head and screams in

a new, monstrous voice.

POP! He plucks Kevin's head off his neck and holds it aloft.

The head stares down at Rick in disbelief.

Rick serves the head like a volleyball, smashing it to bits.

The crowd panics and charges for the exits.

People are trampling over each other in the mayhem. Alistair

Cooke is crushed under the stampede.

The freaks are horrified. Monster Rick growls triumphantly.

Elijah looks on, intrigued.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - MORNING

Rick awakens with a start and gets up. He approaches

JulieErnie, The Bearded Lady, Nosey and Dog Boy, who are idly

playing a game of "Wheel of Fortune." The cubicles contain

large blank blocks, like the "letters" on the game show. So

far, there's a "D", two "S"s, and a "K" revealed. Rosie the

Pinhead plays Vanna White's role.

The Bearded lady yawns. Rick edges towards them.

Juan advances towards Rick, sneering.

He shakes his finger at Juan, and notices there's still a

human nose stuck on his monster claw. He wipes it off,

embarrassed. There's an awkward pause. Ernie breaks the

silence.

Juan gives Ernie a nasty "shut up" look. He growls at him.

Juan howls lustily. He looks to rest of the freaks. They're

a pathetic lot, and their half-hearted howl proves it.

Beat.

Juan gives the others a threatening look. They mumble

agreement.

The freaks ponder this a second, then nod "yes".

Rick turns to go. JulieErnie rush over and try to reason

with him quietly.

DING DING DING! The letters in the Wheel of Fortune board

light up, and ROSIE turns them over to reveal "Crud Sucking

Pus Monkeys" as the secret phrase. Everyone claps despite

themselves. Juan stares them down. They stop.

Rick storms off in a huff. Juan takes Julie's hand and gazes

deep into her eyes. He kisses her passionately. Julie is

watching Rick leave. Juan nibbles her neck, which gets her

attention. She scratches Juan behind his ear. His leg

instinctively kicks the air. Ernie looks worried.

INT. REAR CORNER OF FREAK HOUSE - DAY

Out of sight from the others, Rick approaches the rear door

and tries it. It doesn't open from the inside.

He peers out through a crack in the door and sees a MILKMAN

getting out of his truck in the driveway.

The milkman looks over at the outhouse, suspicious.

He's about to walk away.

The milkman stops in his tracks. He tiptoes over to the back

door of the outhouse, listening intently as Rick goes into

his "act."

The milkman is salivating at the door.

The milkman opens the door eagerly and steps inside. Beat.

BONK. We hear the sound of bottled buttermilk beaning his

soft noggin. Rick walks out wearing the milkman outfit

complete with the little six-milk-bottle-carrier thing.

He looks around and heads for the milk truck, whistling

casually. He notices something. It's ...

THE GIANT ELIJAH HEAD

Its big eyes are staring at Rick (note: there's a skywriter

plane in the distance behind the head, which finishes writing

"YOU GOT THE RIGHT ONE BABY: PEPSI") Rick gets to the truck

and tries the door. It's locked.

He looks over at the giant head. The eyes are still staring

at him--they seem to have shifted. Rick shrugs it off and

looks around. He walks over to Elijah's car. It's locked

too. He checks the big eyes. They've moved again.

Rick's getting a bit desperate. He sees something else and

runs towards it. It's a dry-docked motorboat. It's locked

too. The eyes have followed Rick again. He sees something

else and runs over to it. It's a bag of golf clubs leaning

against Elijah's porch. They're locked too.

He looks at the giant head- the eyes are gone, leaving only

empty eyesockets! Rick hears A BURST OF MACHINEGUN FIRE

behind him, spins around and faces ...

TWO THREE FOOT HIGH EYEBALLS

with little arms and legs, wearing Jamaican Rasta hats and

aiming smoking Uzi 9mms in the air. They aim their Uzis at

Rick. One holds a walkie-talkie, the other holds a big

spliff.

A T.V. MONITOR in Elijah's hands, shows Rick staring at us,

the Eye's POV.

seen in extreme close-up, watches the surveillance monitor.

He speaks into a microphone. We don't see what the room

looks like.

bob in response to Elijah. They have no mouths, but their

pupils open and close when they speak.

Rick looks worried as they lead him towards the scary looking

house.

INT. ELIJAH'S DEN

It's a lovely, suburban den with a coffee table full of

magazines like "Better Homes and Gardens," "National Review"

and "Freaks Illustrated". Elijah sits in a big Barcalounger,

smoking a pipe. Rick sits on the sofa. Toad walks up with a

tray of soft drinks.

Elijah points to a bowl of Fiddle Faddle. Toad sits beside

Rick.

Elijah grabs a big mail bag and spills some letters out on

the table. Elijah opens one and reads it.

Rick reaches for the Fiddle Faddle but the bowl is empty.

Toad BURPS.

Toad is blankfaced. Elijah walks over and refills the bowl.

Rick scoops some into his mouth. Elijah walks to the

fireplace and pushes the embers around with a poker.

The phone rings. Elijah looks at it, and back to Rick.

He goes over to the phone and lifts the receiver.

On the other end of the line, we hear LAUGHING MAN's insane

chuckle. Elijah's smooth smile fades. He turns his back to-

Rick, who strains to identify the familiar laughing voice.

Elijah scribbles notes on a pad by the phone.

Laughing Man hangs up on Elijah. He looks a little pissed-

off as he turns to face Rick again. Grumbling, he takes the

poker in hand, and pokes at the coals angrily.

Ricky rises and snatches the notepad just before Elijah spins

to face him.

Elijah thrusts the red hot fire poker out and ZAP! He

catches Toad's ten foot tongue--curled around the searing

poker inches from the Fiddle Faddle.

EXT. ELIJAH'S HOUSE DAY

Elijah shows Rick out the door. The Eyes scurry out and leap

back into the sockets in the giant head.

As he walks towards the Freak House, Rick pulls out the note

he pocketed. A gust of wind blows it away from him. He

chases it behind the carnival tent where...

KKCCLIINNK! He runs into ELEVEN PHONY MILKMEN, backing their

way around the corner, each carrying their own six-pack of

milkbottles. Startled, they turn around. Why, it's the

freaks! And they're all dressed as milkmen! Cowboy carries

the hammer, who's dressed in a little milkman suit as well.

Juan hadn't thought of this. He pushes himself forward and

confronts Rick viciously.

He pushes Rick aside. The freaks continue past him.

Rick watches as the Freaks approach the open courtyard, where

he knows the Eyeballs will spot them.

Julie glances at him a second, then looks away. His mind

made up, Rick takes a deep breath.

He runs over to the Freaks. He stands in Juan's way.

This is it. Rick and Juan square off. Juan growls and bares

his teeth. Rick's MONSTER EYE starts to glow and pulse

dimly. They circle each other. The others are transfixed.

He peers through a side window, and sees the pack of milkmen

cheering two of their coworkers, locked in mortal combat.

Juan rears back, about to lunge, when suddenly he freezes and

looks off into the distance.

is sitting innocently a few yards off.

He zooms off after the squirrel. The Eyes pop out of the

giant head and follow after him, Uzis FIRING. Juan dodges

their bullets and disappears after his prey.

The freaks watch their best chance of freedom run off after a

pesky rodent. They turn to Rick.

Julie's hurt. She doesn't even smack Ernie.

Julie looks at Rick. She sees he's trying to be helpful, not

sarcastic.

Her eyes meet Rick's. She manages a smile, and Rick smiles

back. Ernie sizes up the situation and groans as they all

head back to the Freak House.

INT. STARK INTERROGATION ROOM

We're moving in towards a door in this desolate, vaguely

corporate looking hallway.

INSIDE THE ROOM

We're looking at the back of Laughing Man's leather chair.

We hear his CACKLE, as well as STUEY GLUCK'S TORTURED SCREAMS

and a horrible POWER TOOL NOISE. We can see the usual bright

interrogation spotlight, and a couple of extra GOONS watching

the goings on, but Stuey and his actual torturer are hidden

by Laughing Man's chair.

We move past Mr. Big's chair to reveal Stuey lying face down

on a table, while Bob Vila is using a power sander on his

butt. Bob is happily giving pointers to the two goons.

Bob obediently shuts up. Laughing Man directs a sinister low

chuckle to Stuey.

Bob considers this a second, then starts up a jackhammer.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY

We hear LONESOME HARMONICA MUSIC as we pan past the cubicles.

Cowboy is playing the harmonica... The Bearded Lady unties

the pretty pink ribbon in his hair and sets it aside...

Suddenly, we switch to HORRIFIC PSYCHO STINGS as the camera

picks up PAUL LYNDE'S CORPSE with flashing red lights. His

eyeball drips out of the socket again...

Then it's back to the SAD HARMONICA MUSIC. In the next

cubicle, Ernie is sleeping, Julie is awake, dreamily fondling

a large eclair. She looks longingly up towards Rick's

cubicle as we...

Rick (his face is normal) and Julie kiss passionately in a

billowy white bed amidst puffy clouds.

We follow her gaze, panning up to Rick. He's lying on his

bed, dreamily fondling a donut. He looks down towards

Julie's cabin...

Rick and Julie kiss passionately. We're tight on them.

WIDEN to show Ernie, still attached to Julie, leering at

Rick. Rick is mortified.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY

Rick sits in his cubicle, visibly sickened by his daydream.

Stuey's echoey voice drifts in.

A holographic image of Stuey lying on the torture table

appears over Rick. We can see the jackhammer looming over

Stuey's face. Rick looks alarmed.

Rick watches the hologram break up and disappear. Wheels

spinning in his head, he takes the crumpled piece of paper

out of his pocket and reads it.

JULIE/ERNIE'S CUBICLE

Julie and Ernie are struggling over a bottle of deodorant.

She grabs it away and shoves it in Ernie's mouth. Rick walks

in.

He hands her the notepaper. She reads it, with some

difficulty. Ernie is still gagging on deodorant.

She gives Rick a disgusted look. Ernie mumbles with the

deodorant in his mouth.

Julie smacks him--he swallows the deodorant.

Ernie BELCHES. Rick sniffs the air.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY

Rick takes a deep breath, and begins his presentation to the

freaks assembled before him.

Sockhead suddenly freaks out.

He stops. Everyone is staring at him.

He takes his seat again.

A THRILLING CHORD.

Sockhead nods.

ANOTHER THRILLING CHORD.

Sockhead nods again.

The freaks all nod in agreement.

Rick pulls out an old comic book and points to an ad for Sea

Monkeys.

The freaks stare at him, not sure if he's kidding or not.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - NIGHT

FREAKS ON A MISSION MONTAGE, SET TO A POUNDING "EYE OF THE

TIGER"-TYPE SONG

-Nosey milks Cowboy, squirting the glowing milk into a funnel

which feeds into a crude still. The Torch heats the boiler.

-The Worm digs the tunnel. JulieErnie hand Rick pieces of

wood which he puts into place as tunnel supports. They hand

him Paul Lynde's corpse and he wedges it in as well.

-Everyone's getting into it and working up a sweat. Nosey

wipes his brow, opens a bottle of Pepsi and chugs it down in

a beautifully lit slo-mo product shot... The other freaks

follow suit, including the Worm, down in the tunnel, who

struggles to hold the bottle in his tiny feeler.

Everything's going great and the song is really pumping

when...

runs out on his front porch in his nightclothes and screams

down at the outhouse.

IN THE FREAK HOUSE

Nosey turns off a boom box and the music cuts short. The

freaks exchange tense looks. Nosey calls out apologetically

to Elijah.

INT. UNDERGROUND TUNNEL

The Worm burrows along, leaving a tunnel wide enough for Rick

and JulieErnie to crawl after him. Rick notices a ray of

light coming through a rock formation.

They all stop and look. Rick fingers the hole, and the rocks

cave in, revealing

A VAST UNDERGROUND CITY

It's obviously a matte painting.

KER-CHUNK! We hear the sound of a slide projector switching

slides and the underground city is replaced by a still image

of some tourists standing around a geyser. [foriegn version:

the Blarney Stone].

They "Ooh" and "Ahh". The image switches to a snapshot of a

FAT MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN.

The other freaks nod politely. The image switches to a BAR

MITZVAH PHOTO.

Julie smacks him.

EXT. FREAK COMPOUND - NIGHT

It's an "Antfarm View" of the yard, where the freaks are

visible tunneling underground, and Toad is visible on the

yard above them. We see a bat fly overhead... ZAP! Toad

shoots out his tongue, snags it out of mid air, and chews it

happily, oblivious to the freaks burrowing right underneath

him.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

Nosey looks at the nearly full container of distilled Noxon.

Bearded Lady looks grave..Nosey sniffs again.

INT. TUNNEL

They're burrowing along. Ernie loudly clears his throat.

Julie spits out a loogie. She grimaces.

We hear muffled BARKING.

The Worm breaks through into a small cavern with several

exposed sewer pipes. A lovable mutt leaps out of a pipe and

drops an old tennis ball in front of Rick. He starts licking

Rick's face.

SAPPY MUSIC wells up.

Scrappy runs away into the sewer pipe. Rick shrugs.

Julie taps on some exposed wood on the cavern ceiling.

They all look at each other excitedly. Suddenly Elijah's

voice rings out behind them.

They spin around and see Nosey holding the bottle of Noxon

24. He grins.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

The freaks are waiting around the hole. Nosey pops out.

Everyone smiles, pats each other on the back, etc. Except

Sockhead, who finally snaps.

He runs amok, pushes various freaks to the ground, and runs

around screaming. The freak house door opens--Eye and Eye

step in to check out the noise. One of them has a spliff

sticking out of its pupil. Sockhead charges at them like a

mad dog. They aim their Uzis.

RATTA-RATTA-RATTA! They spray an ungodly amount of bullets

into Sockhead. He falls to the ground. The Eyes leave.

The freaks gather around Sockhead. Nosey pulls the sock off

his hand head, which is making a little "Senor Pepe" face

with its fist. It spits up a trickle of blood and tries to

speak.

He goes limp.

INT. ELIJAH'S LAB

JulieErnie, the Worm, and Rick are just emerging from the

hole. It's really dark in the lab.

Rick pats Ernie on the shoulder reassuringly. He moves over

to Elijah's computer terminal.

Worm muscles Rick out of the way and sits at the console.

Using a pen held in his mouth, he flicks a series of switches

and punches a fast series of computer keys.

The light on top of the Tasty Freekz machine starts to

revolve, and after a couple of seconds, a stream of GOOEY

LIGHT BROWN GLOP oozes out of the spigot.

The Worm rushes over to the container of glop below the

spigot, and without hesitation, plunges his face into it!

Rick, Julie, and Ernie gasp in horror!

The WORM lifts his glop-smeared face out of the bowl, and

smacks his lips in delight.

The Worm is lost in his pudding-induced reverie. They ignore

him. Julie turns to Rick.

Julie goes to doink Ernie in the eyes, but he uses the

classic "Three Stooges" handblock.

Rick hands the container of Noxon to Ernie. Julie gives him

the eyepoke. Rick shakes hands with Julie, and takes back

the Noxon.

The worm chimes in, still gorging himself on pudding...

Rick's had enough.

Rick pounds the table, sending a glass beaker flying. It

smashes through the window, setting off a loud SIREN.

INT. ELIJAH'S DEN

Elijah's in his robe, watching the opening of "Crooked Cops"

on TV. On screen is a revolving police beacon on a beat-up

car, with a loud SIREN. Elijah munches his popcorn happily.

INT. LAB

Julie manages to silence the alarm by yanking the cord out of

its socket. She shoots Rick a hard look, he shrugs

innocently.

Rick slams his hand down for emphasis and impales it on one

of those desktop paper pins. He SCREAMS in agony.

INT. ELIJAH'S DEN

Elijah's watching an old war movie--a soldier is running

across a battlefield with a bayonet, SCREAMING. He doesn't

hear Rick.

INT. LAB

Julie has her hand over Rick's mouth, silencing his scream.

He calms down. He gingerly slides the pin out of his hand,

grimacing but not making a sound. He sighs with relief. The

coast seems clear. Then, in SLOW MOTION, his hand knocks a

styrofoam cup off the desk and onto the ground.

INT. ELIJAH'S DEN

The war movie has erupted into a massive battle--machine guns

blaring, grenade launchers and bazookas booming, the works.

Suddenly, his ears perk up, and his head swivels around

towards the window.

He puts on his "smiley face" robe and bunny slippers and

heads out the door.

INT. LAB

Julie is pouring the distilled Noxon into the top of the

Tasty Freekz machine.

He presses some buttons on the computer, and the Tasty Freekz

machine starts humming. Ernie is looking out the window.

EXT. ELIJAH'S HOUSE

Elijah comes out of the house and walks towards the lab.

INT. LAB

Rick's starting to sweat. He looks over at Julie, who holds

an empty Pepsi cup under the Tasty Freekz spigot. A drop of

ointment drips out and into the container.

THE LAB DOORKNOB

begins to turn slowly.

Everybody freezes. The flow of ooze slows to a stop.

They look over at the doorknob--it's still turning.

THE DOOR KNOB

is still turning, agonizingly slowly...

OUTSIDE THE LAB

Elijah is trying to turn the knob,, His grip keeps slipping

because of the butter on his fingers.

IN THE LAB

The spigot has started to discharge more,reliably. The Pepsi

cup is filling up now.

Elijah is wiping his hands off on his shirt tails. He tries

the door knob again.

IN THE LAB

We hear a low rumbling and the floor starts to shake.

The door knob is turning more vigorously, but still not

opening. Julie and Ernie get in the hole with Worm, while

Rick attends to the almost-full Pepsi cup of sludge.

Elijah is still having trouble with his grip.

IN THE LAB

Rick pops the plastic lid onto the Pepsi cup, and climbs into

the hole. He rests the cup on the floor and lifts the floor

board over his head. The RUMBLING gets louder as the tunnel

walls start to crumble.

Rick is losing his balance as the ground shifts beneath him.

He sways, and knocks the Pepsi cup of sludge rolling. He

watches, helpless, as it rolls across the floor and comes to

a stop across the room. For a second, he contemplates making

a dash.

Elijah has wrapped his shirt tails around the knob, and

finally has a good grip. He twists the knob...

Rick sees the door opening. He dives down into the hole.

The floor board falls into place just as Elijah walks in.

Elijah scans the room. He goes over towards the Tasty Freekz

machine and finds the styrofoam cup.

He crumples it in his hand.

EXT. FREAK COMPOUND

The "antfarm view" again. We see the freaks running back

through the tunnel as it caves in behind them. Toad sits on

the ground above, oblivious to them. We hear a low flying

aircraft... ZAP! Toad shoots his tongue up out of frame and

sucks the twin engine Cessna into his mouth. Beat. He BURPS

and spits up a propeller.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

The freaks wait by the mouth of the tunnel. We hear the

rumble approach. The worm, JulieErnie, and finally Rick

scramble out of the opening. The dirt avalanche is stopped

short by Paul Lynde's corpse, just as Rick scrambles to

safety.

Nosey claps Paul on what's left of his back--his skeleton

shatters and the tunnel collapses, burying him instantly.

The freaks are horrified.

turns to them guiltily in SLOW-MOTION. His voice is slowed

down and distorted like John Lennon at the end of "Strawberry

Back to normal speed.

Nosey is still morose. He speaks backwards and sounds a lot

like "Revolution #9".

SUBTITLE: "Paul is dead."

The freaks applaud and cheer.

The freaks jeer and pelt Rick with rotten vegetables. He

desperately pulls a bag of cookies out of his pocket.

The freaks burst into applause again.

INT. FREAK HOUSE - DAY

The Freaks are all sleeping, macaroon crumbs still left on

their faces. There's a lot of snoring. Rick awakens with a

start. He hears something in the distance. Something like a

helicopter... He gets up and peeks out a crack in the wall.

RICK'S POV. EXT. FREAKLAND - DAY

An EES corporate helicopter touches down. A few gun-toting

SECURITY GUYS in dark suits and dark glasses get out. They

check that the coast is clear, then give the signal. Out

steps Richard Hertz. He mutters something to one of the

security guys, and walks towards the Freak House.

IN THE FREAK HOUSE

The door to the Freak House opens. Hertz enters, unzips his

fly. Finding no toilet, he shrugs and relieves himself on

the floor. Rick steps out of the shadows towards him.

Hertz is momentarily startled by Rick. He collects himself.

Hertz relieves himself as he talks.

He zips up and heads to the door.

The cackle is unmistakable--Rick's face twists in horror as

he realizes... Hertz is THE LAUGHING MAN! Hertz ducks out

the door. Rick looks after him, stunned.

We hear a nearby SNORE cut off, and the Human Torch stands up

from the spot where Hertz relieved himself. He's dripping

wet and no longer on fire. He sniffs his soaked, smoldering

clothing.

POOF! He catches fire again and walks off. Rick is doing a

slow burn, still looking after Hertz. He erupts and his

monster eye glows briefly. He screams in anguish.

Dejected, Rick leans against the wall. JulieErnie walk up

behind him. Julie puts a hand on Rick's shoulder to comfort

him. As they look into each other's eyes, a loud CRASH

distracts them. Rick peers through the crack.

A caravan of EES trucks crash through the front gate and

drive up to the lab. There's a few cargo trucks and a huge

NOXON-24 tanker.

A forklift drives out of the back of one of the large trucks,

carrying the old corporate farts on a wooden palette.

One of them falls off, and a bunch of WORKMEN scramble out to

prop him up and push him back into place.

INT. LAB - DAY

Elijah switches on the lights, and turns to face his

audience. Hertz is accompanied by his stone-faced security

men and various executives. Workmen are busy installing the

old board of directors and their arm-raising pulley system.

Hertz snaps his fingers and nods to a security guy, who

produces a wriggling canvas sack. He dumps its contents onto

the lab table--it's Stuey Gluck! His glasses come tumbling

out after him. He squints at the security guy.

Stuey puts on his glasses. Elijah looks him up and down.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

Rick hears Stuey's voice in his head, all echoey.

The ghostly image of STUEY gradually takes shape in front of

Rick. Rick can make out the lab table Stuey's on, and some

shadowy figures in the background.

INT. LAB

Stuey is still wailing, and everybody else is getting pretty

damn annoyed.

Toad grabs Stuey and slaps a piece of tape over his mouth.

He throws him into one of the chicken cages along the far

wall. A two-headed chicken starts to peck at him.

He pulls the cover off a small scale model of Freakland,

about ten inches high. It shows the stage, lab, outhouse,

the head, everything.

He whisks the cover off another scale model--it's exactly the

same as the little model except it's a lot bigger.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

Rick is watching all of this in a ghostly image.

Stuey's image, still with his mouth taped shut and the

chicken pecking at him, nods yes.

He gives Rick the old trademark Coogan thumbs up. Rick

halfheartedly returns the gesture.

INT. LAB

Stuey checks to make sure nobody's watching him. They're

not. He removes the spring from a pocket pen and picks the

lock. Stuey searches the floor, and spots the Pepsi cup.

He'll have to crawl through several pairs of legs to reach

it.

BILL BLAZER, a slick and dashing EES marketing executive,

strides confidently up to the podium.

Stuey has to duck the fast approaching legs. Bill steps over

him, not even noticing he's there.

Bill takes Elijah's "Freak World" graphic off an easel, and

replaces it with his own. Finding no place to deposit

Elijah's, he simply drops it on the floor. Elijah looks a

little hurt.

With a big smile, Bill reveals an illustration of a multi-

limb secretary (in a sexy dress) talking on three different

phones, taking notes, and typing, all at once.

Stuey heads towards the Pepsi cup. He brushes against the

back of Hertz's legs. Hertz looks over at Elijah beside him,

who smiles politely. Hertz smiles back, invitingly. Maybe

there's a few things we don't know about him.

The EES guys all nod along. Except for the workmen, who

exchange worried looks. Elijah's still not sure what to make

of it all.

Meanwhile, Stuey has the Pepsi cup of sludge in hand, and

he's crawling under the table towards the door. He brushes

up against the back of Elijah's legs.

Elijah looks over to Hertz, who gives him that smile again.

Elijah looks away quickly, panicky.

All the executives turn to Hertz. He cracks a smile.

The executives laugh heartily. Stuey glances across the room

to the door. He has to make a break for it, so he does.

Stuey freezes. He's right out in the open, in plain view.

Still, nobody seems to see him. They're still watching-

Bill's presentation.

Bill laughs pleasantly.

Bill launches back into his speech with more intensity than

even the best infomercials. Meanwhile, Stuey inches towards

the door, moving as imperceptibly as possible.

The EES guys clap and shout approval. Elijah's impressed

too. He leans over to Hertz.

Stuey is finally out the door. Of course, now they spot him.

EXT. LAB

Stuey is outside the lab. Inexplicably, (actually it's just

because he's so stupid) he's still moving inch by inch. He

calls to Rick through the tape on his mouth.

INT. FREAK HOUSE

Rick sees the image of Stuey inching away from the lab.

Stuey realizes this is true, and pulls the tape off his

mouth.

Two big EES security guys are standing watching Stuey's odd

behavior. They pick him up and carry him away.

Rick sees this all in his holographic image. It fades.

He turns to the other freaks, who've woken up and are

gathered around on the floor. Rick shakes his head.

He pats the Worm on the head tenderly, and turns to Cowboy.

He smiles and playfully tugs Cowboy's udder. He turns to the

Bearded Lady.

Bearded lady is kind of confused, Rick shrugs.

He moves on to Frog Man.

Frog Man nods in agreement. Rick rpaches JulieErnie.

He turns to Julie. ROMANTIC MUSIC swells up.

They embrace. Rick calls out to the assembled group.

They're all ready to cheer, but they're confused by his bad

German. Rick has to explain himself.

Oh. They all get it. Beat. Then they cheer.

EXT..CARNIVAL TENT - NIGHT

A huge banner reads "NEW IMPROVED BEAST BOY SLAUGHTERS HIS

LOVED ONES! SPECIAL GUEST: FUNNYMAN DOM IRERRA! TONIGHT

ONLY!". We can hear the sound of the crowd inside.

INSIDE THE TENT

There's a typically smallish crowd in addition to the EES

executives who occupy the front seats. The security goons

are strategically situated throughout the tent, and two of

them sit on either side of Stuey in the second row. Elijah

is onstage.

Toad pulls a rope and the curtain opens, revealing Rick

strapped to an operating table. On stage left there's a

large cage containing all the other freaks. Including the

unconscious, half-naked Milk Man who Rick knocked out in the

freak house. The Milk Man domes to, looks around in a panic,

grabs the bars of the cage, and screams--

Rick searches the cheering audience for Stuey, who waves the

Pepsi cup full of glop in the air. Rick hears Stuey's voice

echo in his head telepathically.

Stuey's waving cup is blocking the view of a big, annoyed

BIKER sitting behind him. Elijah quiets the crowd and holds

up a beaker of ointment.

Elijah puts on some rubber gloves and prepares to glop Rick,

who squints under the spotlight, still searching for Stuey.

He calls out telepathically.

Stuey stands up on his seat and waves the cup, totally

blocking the biker's view. He telepathically replies.

The biker grabs the cup and dumps it over Stuey's head. The

"good ointment" runs down all over Stuey's body.

All eyes turn to Stuey, who falls down and disappears onto

the floor screaming.

Suddenly an EIGHT FOOT TALL MONSTER VERSION OF STUEY leaps to

its feet and snarls down at the biker. The biker pulls a

switchblade and jams it into Stuey monster's leg--the blade

crumples on his armor-like hide. Stuey grins and SLAM! He

drives the biker into the ground like a railroad spike. He

leaps onto the stage and stalks Elijah.

Rick and the freaks in the cage cheer stuey Monster on.

Eye and Eye rush the stage, Uzis firing.

The bullets bounce off Stuey's hide. He doinks them with his

big monster fingers and sends them flying through...

THE TENT ROOF

across the compound, and THWOPP! Into the Giant Head's eye

sockets, where they spin around and come to a stop, cockeyed.

CRASH! The head's foundation crumbles and it keels over

backwards.

INT. CARNIVAL TENT

Elijah calls out to Toad.

Stuey Monster roars at Toad. Toad smiles weakly.

THE TENT ROOF

Toad catapults through it, follows the path of Eye and Eye

across the compound and CRASH! Lands head first into the

neck of the Giant Head. He gets up with the Giant Head stuck

on his own head, making him look like one of those big headed

caricatures. He runs blindly across the yard and into...

THE ELECTRIC FENCE

ZZZAAAAPPP! BOINNGG! Eye and Eye zing out of the sockets,

and Toad's tongue sticks ten feet out of the Giant Head's

mouth. It's the biggest Tex Avery cartoon take ever!

looks worried. He scoops up some "evil ointment".

Rick considers it. He can't think of anything.

He raises the ointment over Rick. Rick has an idea for a

last word.

Elijah glops Rick. His skin starts to smoke.

Stuey Monster stalks Elijah onstage. Rick is smoking and

shaking violently on the table.

turns to his EES cronies in the audience. He looks bored.

The other executives nod.

starts to transform. FWOOP! His ears spring out into huge

monster ears, kinda like in Pinocchio. FWAAP! His mouth

grows into a massive, Big Daddy Roth style monster mouth.

FWEEP! His upper head does the same.

His body follows suit. He bursts' out of the straps and

grows into a drooling TEN FOOT TALL RICK MONSTER. He snarls

at Stuey Monster.

The crowd and the other freaks look on, tense. Stuey Monster

instinctively whips out a Ricky Coogan publicity photo and a

pen.

Rick Monster snarls and bashes Stuey Monster in the face.

Stuey Monster jams the pen through the photo and snarls back.

Even Julie is screaming "Fight! Fight," beside herself with

bloodthirsty glee. Ernie smacks her.

The crowd goes nuts as the monsters trade a series of cliche

pro-wrestling moves. Stuey bashes Rick. Rick bashes Stuey,

etc.

Stuey grabs Rick's hair and marches him around the stage.

The crowd is taking sides, screaming out advice, and foaming

at their mouths.

stands in front of the a group of EES HARDHATS who are using

forklifts to move the Tasty Freekz Machine towards the exit.

He notices Elijah and taps his executive ASSISTANT.

Elijah turns to an alarm box on the wall which reads "BREAK

GLASS IN CASE OF DOUBLECROSSING CORPORATE GREASEBALLS." He

breaks the glass and pulls the lever inside.

A trapdoor on the stage opens and a large chemical tank rises

out of it. Elijah jumps into the seat of the gun turret

nozzle atop the tank. He aims the nozzle at the EES group.

He presses the plunger and the nozzle spews a torrent of

yellow glop on the EES people. They scream in agony as their

bodies melt together into one big mutating blob.

Alistair Cooke stands up in the audience--he's got a head

bandage and a crutch from being trampled at the last show.

The crowd goes berserk and rushes the exits, trampling poor

Cooke like a roach.

flips Stuey onto the ground and starts stomping on him.

Stuey is knocked out cold. Rick leaves him on the floor and

stalks the freak cage murderously.

He rips some bars off the cage and is about to spear

JulieErnie with a jagged steel bar when Stuey Monster grabs

his leg and trips him. Stuey summons all his remaining

energy to wrestle Rick, delaying him, for the moment, from

slaughtering the freaks.

Meanwhile, Elijah is watching as

THE EES BLOB

solidifies into... A GIANT SHOE made of living flesh. It's

got eyeballs where the eyes should be, a tongue where the

tongue should be, but it's helpless and immobile.

Elijah looks at it with pride. He does his best Ed Sullivan

He swivels the nozzle turret towards the cage full of freaks

and is about to glop them when Rick stands up above Stuey,

blocking Elijah's trajectory at the freak cage. Rick raises

the jagged bar above Stuey, ready to drive it down through

his chest.

Rick Monster nods and drives the spear down when we...

INT. REGIS & KATHIE LEE SHOW SET

Rick's silhouette (which matches his ten foot monster

incarnation) is immersed in the story.

A fine array of different kinds of cheese on a chopping

block.

A BURLY HAND swipes all the cheese off the block and slams

down an aluminum can labeled "MACHEESMO."

The hand crushes the can and gooey yellow cheese squirts out

the top.

INT. REGIS & KATHIE LEE SHOW SET

We hear a music bite from "Le Freak."

INT. CARNIVAL TENT - NIGHT

Rick stops the spear inches from Stuey's chest. Their eyes

meet.

Elijah's bloodthirsty goading fades away, and Cowboy's voice

reverberates in Rick's head.

The voice keeps echoing. A tear wells up in Rick Monster's

eye. He looks over at Cowboy, who is actually calling out to

him from the cage.

Rick Monster loses his murderous glare. He breaks into a

warm smile, throws the pipe away and helps Stuey Monster up.

They hug. The rest of the Freaks cheer wildly.

The Worm is gushing sentimentally. He tries to hide his

tears.

He can't hold it in anymore. He bawls like a baby.

Meanwhile, Elijah is hopping mad.

He aims at Rick Monster and presses the fire button. The

Glop starts to flow, but before it can make it out of the

tip, Rick grabs hold of the nozzle, and twists it around to

face Elijah.

Elijah manages to duck just in time. A stream of yellow

Noxon 25 glop flies over his shoulder, and lands in the DUNK

TANK full of carbolic acid that sits off to one side of the

tent.

The acid and the Noxon mix together and bubble up menacingly.

Elijah hops down out of the gunner's chair and squares off

against Rick Monster.

Meanwhile, Stuey Monster has released the other freaks from

the cage. They watch the confrontation from a distance.

Elijah rolls up his sleeves. Rick growls and advances

slowly.

He rushes at Rick and delivers a flurry of punches to his mid

section. They have absolutely no effect. Rick brings one

heavy fist slamming down on Elijah's head, stopping him cold.

Rick rears back to kick him.

The freaks all perk up. Rick's skeptical.

A slow smile grows on the Freaks' faces, especially Rick's.

THWAK! Rick boots Elijah between the legs, sending him

flying through the air. He lands on the DUNK TANK SEAT over

the bubbling Noxon/Acid. Dazed, he looks at the bullseye

target, and back at Rick. Summoning up his last ounce of

bravado, Elijah makes a last stand.

Rick ponders for a second. He looks over to Julie. Then...

Scrappy the dog rushes in. He leaps up and presses the

bullseye, dropping Elijah into the hideous mixture.

Elijah struggles in agony. His body bubbles and mutates in

the thick toxic soup. He sinks lower and lower into the

gunk, until he and his cries are buried for good.

Scrappy leaps into Rick's arms and licks his face.

BLAM! BLAM! The tent flaps fly open and a half dozen FBI

AGENTS rush in with guns drawn.

Another FBI GUY investigates the dunk tank, sees Elijah's hat

floating on top of the bubbling ooze.

The chief nods. They put away their guns, and approach Rick

and the rest of the jubilant freaks.

The FBI guy has peeled the decal off the Pepsi machine,

revealing that it's actually a Coke machine! The chief is

sickened to the core.

Suddenly, the agents are distracted by a terrible scream.

They turn to the dunk tank and are shocked by what they see.

We SWISH PAN over to reveal a DRIPPING BLOB climbing out of

the dunk tank. The blob separates into two distinct entities

with their backs to us. They turn around and...my God

it's... it's....

REGIS AND KATHIE LEE!

Or at least a damn fine mutant imitation of them. Call

him/them ELIJUS and ELLY LEE. They both have glowing red

demon eyes and speak in Elijah's voice.

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! The FBI guys open fire. We show only

the horrified reactions of the freaks as they look on.

INT. REGIS AND KATHIE LEE SET

Rick, Regis, and Kathie Lee are still in silhouette.

The lights come on--no more silhouettes. Ricky looks

perfectly normal, his old self. His weird silhouette was

caused by a potted plant and some strange hanging mobile

behind him.

The audience applauds and hoots wildly.

The audience cheers as the rest of the Freaks walk out from

the wings, and stand off to the side waving to the audience.

They all look clean cut and happy. They wear T-shirts with

their former identities printed on them. "I was NOSEY," "I

was COWBOY," "I was the BEARDED LADY" etc. Except the Worm,

who's still a worm. His T-shirt says, "I'm Still THE WORM".

Suddenly a squirrel runs across stage, followed by Juan. He

pounces and catches the furry little bugger.

They all hug.

He looks down at Regis and KATHIE LEE's feet--they're big,

hideous monster feet! Suddenly their eyes glow bright red--

It's Elijus and Elly Lee! They speak with Elijah's voice.

Elly Lee pulls a machete and is about to force it down on

Rick's throat when...

BANG! BANG! BANG! Elijus and Elly Lee's eyes go funny.

They look at each other, spit up some blood, wave to the

audience one last time, and collapse to the floor. Julie

stands behind them, smoking gun in hand. She rushes to Rick.

They embrace.

Rick and Julie turn and see Stuey, still a ten foot tall

monster, running towards them. He's carrying a garbage bag

dripping blood.

Rick and Julie look at the bag, mortified. Stuey chuckles.

Rick and Julie sigh with relief. Stuey pulls out a similar

leaking bag and holds it up.

Rick and Julie nod casually--"Oh."

Suddenly Elijus and Elly Lee pop up from behind the couch,

bloodied, but still fierce. They're about to stab Rick and

Julie when...

BANG! BANG! BANG! BANG! BANG! Five more shots ring out

and they fall dead--again.

Ernie stands off to the side with a smoking gun.

Sappy END OF THE MOVIE MUSIC wells up.

Julie's had enough. She socks Ernie square on the jaw.

Rick gives her the thumbs up. They turn to the audience.

The audience cheers. The HIT SINGLE from the soundtrack

album kicks in as we...

As the credits roll, and everybody continues to smile and

wave at the cheering audience, Elijus and Elly Lee attack

again. Ernie hands the gun to Stuey, who shoots them dead.

Well, dead-ish. Seconds later, after some more waving, they

attack again. This time Nosey and the Bearded Lady stab them

to death, sort of. A little more waving, before Elijus and

Elly Lee make another pathetic attempt. They can barely

stand. Cowboy clubs one with a mic stand. Worm head-butts

the other. A few seconds later, Elijus's bloodied hand

gropes its way over the top of the studio couch. Stuey has

to prop him up while members of the audience are invited down

to punch him in the chops. Ernie stands off to the side,

charging everyone five bucks per blow.

As we fade, everyone's having a go flipping, throwing,

kicking and impaling rag doll replicas of America's favorite

morning show hosts.

