OPEN ON: ICE.

We're underwater looking up at it. A saw cuts through,

heading right for us.

EXT. SNOW-CAPPED MOUNTAINS -- DUSK

ICE HARVESTERS, dressed in traditional Sami clothing, score a

frozen lake. They SING.

The men drag giant ice blocks through channels of water.

A young Sami boy, KRISTOFF (8), and his reindeer calf, SVEN,

share a carrot as they try to keep up with the men.

Young Kristoff struggles to get a block of ice out of the

water. He fails, ends up soaked. Sven licks his wet cheek.

A sharp ice floe overtakes the workers, threateningly. They

fight it back.

Massive fjord horses drag heavy ice plows.

The sun sets. Lanterns are lit.

In the dark, Kristoff and Sven finally manage to get a single

block of ice out of the water.

The workers pile onto the giant horse-drawn ice sled as it

pulls away.

Left behind, Kristoff and Sven push their ice block onto a

dinky little sled then head off.

We sweep up from them to the Northern Lights filling the

sky...then move across the mountains...beneath the

snowline...and descend upon...

EXT. THE KINGDOM OF ARENDELLE -- NIGHT

A humble castle, built of wood, nestled in a deep fjord.

INT. CASTLE, NURSERY -- NIGHT

ELSA (8) sleeps in her bed. Her little sister ANNA (5) pops

up beside her.

Elsa doesn't stir. Anna sits on Elsa and bounces.

Anna rolls onto her back and spreads all her weight on Elsa.

Elsa shoves Anna off the bed.

Anna lands butt to floor, sighs, defeated. But then she gets

an idea. She hops back on the bed and lifts one of Elsa's

eyelids.

Elsa's eyes both pop open. She smiles.

INT. CASTLE STAIRCASE -- NIGHT

Anna, now wearing snow boots, pulls Elsa by the hand.

Elsa tries to shush her, but Anna's too excited.

INT. BALLROOM -- NIGHT

The girls sneak into the ballroom. Elsa shuts the door.

Elsa laughs and waves her hands together. Snowflakes suddenly

burst forth and dance between her palms, forming a snowball.

Elsa throws the snowball high into the air. Snow bursts out

and flurries around the room. Anna dances about, catching

flakes in her palms and mouth.

Elsa stomps her little slippered foot and a layer of ice

suddenly coats the floor, forming a giant ice rink. Anna

slides off, laughing.

PLAY MONTAGE:

-Anna and Elsa roll giant snowballs and build a snowman

together. Elsa moves his stick arms around.

Anna jumps up and hugs him.

-Anna and Olaf appear to be dancing. REVEAL: Elsa is actually

propelling them across the ice floor with her magic.

-The girls slide down snowbanks together!

-Anna fearlessly jumps off a snow peak into mid air.

Elsa makes another peak to catch Anna.

Anna keeps jumping. Elsa keeps casting magic.

Elsa suddenly slips.

Her magic accidentally STRIKES Anna in the head. Anna tumbles

down a snowbank and lands, unconscious.

Elsa runs to Anna and takes her in her arms. A streak of

Anna's hair, where struck, turns white.

The room around them fills with frightening ice spikes.

The parents burst through the frozen door. GASP at the sight

of the room.

The King and Queen rush to Anna and take her in their arms.

INT. DARK ROOM -- NIGHT

The King sifts through a shelf to find an ancient book

inscribed with Old Norse runes. He opens the book, scrambles

to a page with an ancient map.

EXT. ARENDELLE -- NIGHT

Carrying the girls, the King and Queen ride their horses out

of the kingdom. Snow streams from Elsa's hands, leaving a

trail of ice behind them.

EXT. FJORD MOUNTAIN FOREST -- NIGHT

A sleepy Kristoff and Sven travel alone through the dark

woods. All of a sudden, the King and Queen race by with the

girls, leaving the wake of ice.

EXT. BLACK MOUNTAINS -- NIGHT

Kristoff rides Sven as they follow the trail of ice.

EXT. THE VALLEY OF THE LIVING ROCK -- NIGHT

Kristoff hops off Sven at the edge of a deep valley. They

hide behind a rock and peek out.

Down below, the King holds a frightened Elsa. The Queen holds

the still unconscious Anna.

Suddenly, a bunch of rocks tumble down the valley toward

them. It looks as though they'll be crushed!

But, luckily, the rocks stop at their feet. The rocks then

unfold, revealing bright faces.

The rock in front of Kristoff "wakes up." Meet BULDA.

She grabs Kristoff and Sven by hand and hoof and hugs them

close. Sven licks her face and she eyes them both.

Back below, the crowd parts for a troll as old as the Earth.

They call him GRAND PABBIE. He approaches arthritically, but

determined. He nods respectfully to the king.

Grand Pabbie motions for the Queen to bring Anna to him. She

does. He examines her.

Grand Pabbie pulls out a glowing blue energy from Anna's

head. We see her memories floating right above her. Grand

Pabbie changes all of her magical memories to ordinary

memories -- snowy play indoors with the girls in their

nightgowns changes to outdoors on the winter fjords with the

girls in winter gear. He puts the ordinary memories back in

her head.

As he speaks, he conducts the Northern Lights to show a

silhouette of an adult Elsa creating magical snowflakes.

The snowflakes turn to sharp spikes.

In the Northern Lights display, the sharp spikes cause human

figures to panic and attack Elsa.

Elsa gasps and buries her face in the King's chest. The King

wraps his arms around Elsa, protectively.

Over the King's words we...

-The Arendelle castle gates shutting.

-The castle shutters close.

-Anna sits on her bed as Elsa's furniture disappears.

-Anna rushes to the hall to see Elsa shut the door to her new

room. Anna watches, confused and sad.

INT. CASTLE WINDOW -- DAY

We look out on a gentle snowfall. Little Anna skips up to the

window. She lights up at the sight of the snow and rushes

down the hall.

INT. HALLWAY, ELSA'S DOOR -- DAY

Anna knocks on Elsa's door and SINGS.

Anna peeks under the door.

-INT. ANNA'S ROOM -- Anna plays with two dolls, gives up, sad.

-ELSA'S DOOR. Anna peeks through the key hole.

-Anna calls through the keyhole.

-BEHIND THE DOOR -- DAY. Elsa sits at the window looking out,

longingly. Suddenly, her icy hands freeze the windowsill.

-LATER. The King slips leather gloves onto Elsa's hands.

He pats her gloved hand.

-INT. HALLWAY, ELSA'S DOOR -- DAY. Anna, now 9, knocks on

Elsa's door.

-INT. HALLWAY -- DAY. Alone, Anna rides a bicycle built for

two in the hall by standing on the back seat.

-INT. PORTRAIT ROOM -- DAY. Anna runs around the portrait

room, gaining momentum to flip over the arm of the couch.

Anna lands PLOP on the cushions, then looks up at the

painting above her of the courageous Joan of Arc.

-INT. EMPTY LIBRARY -- DAY. Looks like no one's around.

But then we find Anna, laying at the base of the grandfather

clock, playing with her braids, bored out of her mind.

Anna's eyes follow the grandfather clock's pendulum.

-INT. ELSA'S ROOM -- NIGHT. Elsa (now 12) paces as she panics.

The entire wall is frozen behind her.

The King goes to hug her.

He and the Queen look at each other with alarmed sadness.

-INT. LIBRARY -- DAY. Anna, now a teenager, slides past Elsa's

room without stopping.

-INT. KING AND QUEEN'S QUARTERS -- DAY. Anna runs into the

room and throws herself into her parents' arms.

-INT. ELSA'S ROOM -- DAY. Elsa curtsies in front of her

parents, formally, not touching them.

-EXT. DOCKS -- DAY. The King and Queen leave on a ship.

-EXT. ROUGH SEAS -- NIGHT. Lightning flashes. The sea rages in

a storm. The King and Queen's ship is lost in the waves.

-INT. CASTLE -- DAY. A portrait of the King and Queen is

covered in mourning cloth.

-EXT. CEMETERY -- DAY. Anna looks small, standing before her

people, beside burial stones.

-INT. HALLWAY, ELSA'S DOOR. Anna, still in her mourning

clothes, approaches and knocks.

Anna slides down the door and sits with her head against it.

We move through the door...

-INT. ELSA'S ROOM -- DAY. Elsa is sitting in the exact same

pose as Anna. Her bedroom is frozen with ice. Snowflakes hang

in the air, suspended by grief.

EXT. THE KINGDOM OF ARENDELLE -- MORNING

A new dawn rises over the fjords.

Ships pull up to the docks. Guests pile out.

A BOY tries to get away as his MOTHER tries to stuff him in

his bunad jacket.

They pass the May Pole being raised and a Sami ice harvester

chatting with his reindeer. We recognize them as Kristoff and

Sven, all grown up. Sven hops around excitedly like a dog and

nuzzles Kristoff's chest.

Kristoff leans in and speaks for Sven, as if he can.

Kristoff pulls a carrot out of his shirt pocket and hands it

to Sven. Sven tries to bite the whole thing.

Sven takes a smaller bite. Kristoff then has a bite himself,

not seeming to care that it's covered in reindeer slobber.

We move on to PERSI and AGGIE, a super-excited couple who

rush towards the castle.

They pass a tiny but menacing DUKE, who wears taps on his

shoes to "enhance" his presence. Two THUG guards follow close

behind him.

We leave him and head down the bridge towards the castle

gates, passing an Irishman and a Spanish Dignitary.

We move past them, to a particular castle window.

INT. CASTLE, ANNA'S BEDROOM -- DAY

Anna, 18, snores. Drools. KNOCK. KNOCK.

Anna sits up. She's got major bedhead. She coughs. Snorts.

Pulls a hair from her mouth.

She falls back asleep while sitting. She snores. Her head

drops, startling her awake.

One eye opens enough to catch sight of her coronation dress.

She bolts, wide awake in excitement.

EXT. CASTLE HALL -- DAY

Anna bursts out of her room, wearing her coronation dress.

She finishes pinning ribbons in her hair. Seeing the hustle

and bustle of preparations, she can't help but SING.

-Anna slides along the floor of the ballroom in her socks.

-She shakes hands with a suit of armor. Breaks it. Hides the

evidence.

-Anna comes to a window and jumps out onto a window washer's

pulley. She raises herself up to see the ships arriving.

-Anna walks through the garden and follows a family of geese.

-Anna twists herself in a velvet drape like it's a gown. She

acts like she looks gorgeous, but she looks ridiculous.

-She notices the bust of a man across the room.

-She grabs the bust of the man and swings it around.

The bust goes flying and lands on the top of the cake.

-Anna bursts into the portrait room, bounces on the

furniture, and interacts with the paintings.

-INT. LIBRARY. ELSA, now a very poised 21, watches out the

window as the coronation guests arrive.

Elsa moves to a painting of her father's coronation. She

takes off her gloves and mimics the painting by holding a

candlestick and ornament in place of an orb and scepter.

The candlestick and ornament ice over. Elsa gasps, slams them

back down onto the table. She tries to reassure herself.

We cut between Anna's excitement and Elsa's nerves.

-Finally, the gates are open! Anna moves through the crowd,

admiring the people around her.

FOR THE FIRST TIME IN                  DON'T LET THEM IN

FOREVER.                               DON'T LET THEM SEE

I'M GETTING WHAT I'M DREAMING          BE THE GOOD GIRL

OF                                     YOU ALWAYS HAVE TO BE

A CHANCE TO LEAVE MY SISTER'S          CONCEAL.

WORLD                                  CONCEAL. DON'T FEEL.

A CHANCE TO FIND TRUE LOVE             DON'T LET THEM KNOW.

-Anna hurries over the bridge and into the village square.

-Anna SLAMS right into the breast of a HORSE!

She falls back and lands in a small wooden boat. It tips off

of the dock. She's heading overboard. But just then, the

horse slams his hoof into the boat and steadies it.

The rider, HANS, sure is handsome and regal.

He hops down from his horse and steps into the boat.

He offers her a hand and their eyes meet. Chemistry. He helps

her to her feet.

He drops to his knees, head bowed. The horse bows too,

curling his hoof up and out of the boat.

The boat tips. Hans tumbles on top of Anna. Awkward.

The horse slams his foot back into the boat to stabilize it.

Anna and Hans tumble the other way. Anna lands on top of him.

Hans quickly gets to his feet and helps Anna up again.

Hans smiles, amused. She smiles back. The bells RING. She

doesn't notice at first; she's too busy drinking in Hans's

handsomeness.

She hurries off, stops, turns back. Gives Hans a little wave.

As she rushes off again, Hans waves back. The horse waves

too, once again taking his hoof out of the boat.

The boat falls, with Hans in it. SPLASH! It lands upside down

in the water. Hans raises it up off of him, gasping for air.

INT. CHURCH CHAPEL -- DAY

Elsa stands at the alter. Anna stands off to one side. She

peeks out to the audience.

Hans waves at her from the pews. He's changed his clothes.

The crown is placed on Elsa's head. The scepter and orb are

presented to Elsa on a pillow. She slowly reaches for them.

Elsa hesitates. She breathes nervously, removes her gloves,

places them on the pillow. Her hands shake. She takes the orb

and scepter, then turns to the people.

The scepter and orb start to freeze over.

Just in time. Elsa manages to set the orb and scepter back

down on the pillow before anyone notices the ice. She picks

up her gloves and slips them on. She made it.

INT. GREAT HALL -- NIGHT

Springy music fills the Great Hall. Guests dance. Eat. Laugh.

TRUMPETS SOUND.

Elsa enters, poised and looking surprisingly content. She

stands under a formal awning.

Anna runs into the room, waves awkwardly. Kai ushers her over

to stand right next to Elsa.

She and Elsa sneak awkward peeks at each other.

They look out at the celebration.

They both close their eyes and inhale.

Their eyes pop open. They laugh.

Elsa looks back out at the party. Anna looks at Elsa. She

wants to say so much, but she can't think of where to start.

Just as she finds her way, Kai interrupts.

The Duke does a funny flitter of his feet, a hitch-kick, and

a deep bow.

As he holds out his hand, head down, his toupee dips forward.

Anna giggles. Elsa looks at Anna, stifles a giggle herself.

The Duke grabs Anna's arm and yanks her away before she can

protest.

Anna looks back at Elsa, desperately.

OUT ON THE DANCE FLOOR: The Duke showboats, but he's just

awful. Anna tries to make the best of it.

He lands on her feet.

He gets in her face, suspicious.

He dips Anna back. Elsa peeks through the crowd, can barely

hold in her laughter. Anna shoots Elsa funny, help-me looks.

MOMENTS LATER...

Anna limps back to Elsa.

But then Elsa catches herself. She stiffens up, looks away.

Anna's smile drops. She tries not to get emotional.

She walks away. Elsa watches her go, saddened.

Moving through the crowd, Anna gets bumped by a bowing man's

butt. She falls. Just before she hits the floor, Hans catches

her. He smiles perfectly.

He smoothly sets his drink down on a passing tray. He lifts

her up and leads her in a romantic dance.

LATER: Anna and Hans drink and chat.

She hits him in the face by mistake with her hand. He laughs.

-THE CASTLE DOORS: Anna and Hans stroll out of the castle.

-THE ROSE GARDEN... Hans notices her white streak.

EXT. BALCONY -- NIGHT

Anna teaches Hans how to eat krumkake.

They laugh as the krumkake crumbles in his face.

He takes her hand. Leans in close.

They jump to the neighboring balcony and enter a door.

They come out on top of one of the castle's towers.

Cut to them sliding across an empty hallway in their socks.

They hop up on the castle roof and watch a shooting star.

They slide down the back of the roof out of sight.

We next find them strutting on a bridge ledge.

Are they doing the robot? No. They're imitating the

mechanical figures on the clock tower.

Anna and Hans dance on top of the lighthouse and cast dancing

shadows across the sails of ships in the docks.

They play hide and seek amongst the stable doors.

They climb to the waterfall looking out over the kingdom.

Anna raises up her hands to frame the moon. Hans puts his

hands on top of hers. Together their hands form a heart.

INT. BALL -- NIGHT

Anna pushes through the crowd towards Elsa, Hans in tow.

Elsa turns to Anna. Anna curtseys awkwardly.

Elsa gives a polite but reserved curtsey.

Anna sees Hans's worried face. Hooks arms with him.

Elsa walks away. As she passes the Royal Handler--

Anna grabs Elsa's hand. She pulls off Elsa's glove. Elsa

gasps, spins around and reaches for the glove in panic.

Anna holds the glove away from Elsa.

Elsa fights tears.

Elsa sees Anna's hurt face. It's too much. She can't hold it

in. She turns and rushes away.

The party goes silent as everyone watches the sisters.

Ice shoots from Elsa's hand, spikes across the floor! Guests

cry out in shock, back away.

Elsa rushes out of the room.

EXT. COURTYARD -- NIGHT

Elsa bursts out of the castle door. The CITIZENS CHEER!

Elsa ducks through the crowd, holding her bare hand.

Elsa backs away from the baby. She knocks into the fountain,

grabs its edge. The waters freeze at her touch.

GASPS of shock and fear sweep over the crowd.

The Duke and thugs come out the door.

Magic accidentally shoots from her hand and turns the

staircase into ice. The thugs and the Duke fall.

The crowd panics.

A snowstorm begins. Elsa flees.

Anna runs out of the palace doors, carrying the glove.

Hans follows closely behind her.

GATES TO THE KINGDOM: Elsa runs out of the gates and down to

the water's edge. The shoreline freezes under her feet.

Anna calls to her from the gates.

Elsa glances back at Anna, but turns away. She tentatively

steps out onto the fjord. It freezes instantly. She breaks

into a run, as the water freezes over with each step.

Anna rushes out onto the fjord ice, slips, falls.

Hans rushes to Anna's side.

Elsa reaches the far shore. She doesn't look back. She just

scrambles into the mountains.

The ice spreads out until the entire fjord is frozen, locking

the ships in place.

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD -- NIGHT

Snow falls. Hans and Anna move through the panicking crowd.

Nearby, the Duke flutters about in fright.

Anna rushes up to the Duke.

The Duke hides behind his thugs and points out at Anna.

The Royal Handler brings Anna her horse and a cloak.

He sees the desperation in her eyes.

She throws on the cloak and hops right onto the horse,

coronation dress and all.

She snaps the reins and rides out. Hans watches after her.

The snow picks up and overtakes our view. We push through a

blizzard...lose our way...then finds ourselves...

EXT. HIGH UP IN THE MOUNTAINS -- NIGHT

Well above the snow-line, a small figure climbs the highest

peak. It's Elsa. Finally, she stops, looks around. Catches

her breath and sings...

Elsa takes off her glove and throws it into the air.

Elsa creates a snowman, just like the one she made with Anna

when they were children.

Elsa lets her cape fly back into the wind.

Elsa creates ice steps and climbs them.

Elsa slams her foot down and forms a giant snowflake.

In a flurry of creative release, she raises the snowflake on

ice beams, builds walls, archways, a glistening chandelier,

and an intricate ceiling that leaves the sky visible.

Standing firmly in her mighty ice palace, Elsa removes her

crown and throws it.

She takes down her hair and creates a new dress made of ice.

The sun rises. Elsa struts onto out onto a balcony and into

the light. She's free.

She turns and slams her ice palace door on us.

EXT. THE FJORD FOREST -- DAY

Anna rides her horse through two feet of snow. She shivers.

LATER: Anna and the horse struggle through a wooded area.

A branch of a nearby tree snaps and startles the horse. Anna

goes flying off, lands face down in the snow. She sits up.

Spits out snow. Sees the horse running away.

He doesn't come back. Anna grabs onto a branch of a leaning

conifer, tries to pull herself to her feet, but the tree

snaps upright and releases all its snow onto her. GROAN.

EXT. MOUNTAIN -- NIGHT

The Northern Lights shine as Anna struggles, out of breath,

reaching the top of a hill.

She sees smoke rising up in the distance.

Anna goes tumbling down the hill. She lands with a crash in

an icy stream at the bottom.

EXT. A SMALL BUILDING AND STABLE -- NIGHT

Anna shuffles up to the building, her dress frozen stiff. She

shakes the snow off a sign and reads:

Snow drops off a smaller sign. She reads it, happily.

INT. WANDERING OAKEN'S TRADING POST & SAUNA -- NIGHT

Anna steps cautiously through the door--which hits her frozen

butt and knocks her into the center of the shop. She looks

around, sees only summer supplies.

Anna turns to see a bright-faced fellow sitting low behind

the counter, fingers tapping tip to tip.

The winter department contains one outfit, a pick ax, and a

lonely pair of boots.

She brings the clothes and boots to the counter.

The front door suddenly blows open and in walks a mass of a

man covered in ice. Underneath is KRISTOFF.

Kristoff walks right up to Anna.

Anna moves out of Kristoff's way. He grabs a bunch of

carrots, tosses them on the counter, then moves through the

place, gathering other supplies.

Kristoff brings his supplies to the counter. Oaken counts on

his fingertips.

Kristoff motions out the window, where we see the blocks of

ice on his sled, covered in snow.

Kristoff and Anna turn to see a naked family waving through

the window of the steaming sauna.

Kristoff seethes. Stalemate.

Kristoff pulls down his scarf and gives Anna a firm answer.

Oaken stands up, revealing his seven-foot stature.

EXT. WANDERING OAKEN'S TRADING POST AND SAUNA -- NIGHT

Oaken stomps out the door, carrying Kristoff with one arm.

Oaken throws Kristoff, who face-plants in the snow.

Oaken slams the door. Kristoff sits up. His reindeer, Sven,

canters over, snorts, and nudges him, expectantly.

Sven huffs in his face. Kristoff turns away and sees

something. He points to a dilapidated barn.

INT. WANDERING OAKEN'S TRADING POST AND SAUNA -- NIGHT

Anna stands watching Oaken and all his great height as he

squeezes behind the counter and sits down low again.

Anna looks between Kristoff's supplies and the door.

INT. OAKEN'S STABLES - NIGHT

Kristoff, now unfrozen, relaxes on a bed of hay, playing his

lute and singing to (and for) Sven.

The door opens. Anna enters.

Kristoff sits up with a start...sees who it is.

He lays back down, closes his eyes.

A sack of supplies lands in Kristoff's lap.

He sits up. Looks in the bag.

He eyes her. He clearly doesn't take orders.

He considers, lies back down, pulls his hat over his eyes.

A bag of carrots hits Kristoff in the face.

She steps back outside and waits, anxiously. Annoyed,

Kristoff offers Sven a carrot. Sven has a bite. Then Kristoff

has a bite, contemplating.

EXT. MOUNTAIN HIGH -- NIGHT

Sven races, top speed, up a narrow cliff, pulling the sled,

which skids precariously. Kristoff mans the reins. Anna sits

beside him.

Anna leans back and puts her feet up on the dashboard.

He pushes her feet down.

Kristoff spits on the dash to clean it. The spit flies back

and hits Anna in the face.

She wipes off her face.

Anna eyes Kristoff up and down, then slides away from him.

Sven suddenly stops, ears perked in alarm.

Kristoff clamps his hand over Anna's mouth.

Kristoff stands, looks into the dark woods surrounding them.

Sensing something behind them, he holds up his lantern. Its

light reflects off...EYES. Several.

Sven takes off.

Flashes of white dart through the woods. Kristoff hops into

the back of the sled, grabs a torch. Lights it.

A wolf jumps at them, but Kristoff kicks it off.

Anna grabs the lute, swings it right at Kristoff's head.

He screams, as she...BAM!...swings past Kristoff and knocks a

wolf away.

Just then Kristoff is yanked off the sled by another wolf.

The torch goes flying. Anna catches it, shocked.

Kristoff grabs onto a loose rope hanging from the back of the

sled and holds on for dear life as he's dragged behind.

A wolf jumps on Kristoff's back.

Anna thinks fast, uses the torch to light a blanket on fire.

Anna throws the flaming blanket right at him. He ducks. The

blanket hits the wolves. They tumble off Kristoff.

Anna reaches out a hand, pulls Kristoff back onto the sled.

Sven cries out. There is a massive gorge ahead.

Kristoff shoves a satchel into her arms then scoops her up.

Kristoff tosses Anna onto Sven, then unhooks Sven's harness

from the sled.

Sven jumps the gorge with Anna on his back.

Kristoff goes flying off behind them, still on the sled.

Anna and Sven land safely on the other side of the gorge.

Kristoff's sled loses momentum. It's not going to make it. He

leaps off. He flaps his arms, claws at the air.

He slams into the snowy edge of the cliff. Hanging by his

hands, he looks down to see his sled hit the ground far below

and burst into flames.

Suddenly, he starts to slip. He claws at the loose snow, but

it's clearly hopeless. He's going down.

To make matters worse, an AXE comes flying right at his face.

The axe slams into the snow, inches from his nose.

Kristoff grabs on.

REVEAL: The axe is tied to a rope, then wrapped around Sven.

Anna helps Sven pull Kristoff to safety.

Kristoff rolls onto his back, exhausted. Anna peeks down at

the burning sled.

Kristoff groans.

Anna walks off, sadly. Sven comes over and nuzzles Kristoff.

Through their conversation, they watch Anna go the wrong

way...turn, go the other wrong way, turn, trip...

Sven licks Kristoff happily.

EXT. SHARP MOUNTAIN RIDGE -- DAWN

Kristoff, Sven and Anna walk on a narrow rim of a mountain.

EXT. MOUNTAIN FOREST CLEARING -- DAY

As they step out of the thick trees, Anna catches sight of

something far below.

She points straight ahead.

He points her finger up towards a perilously mighty mountain.

INT. FROZEN WILLOW TREES -- DAY

Anna, Kristoff, and Sven walk beneath frozen willows. The

hanging branches glisten like Christmas lights. Sven knocks

them with his antlers. They tinkle like chimes.

Suddenly, a voice comes in from nowhere. We'll call that

voice OLAF.

While this is going on, Anna and Kristoff look around for the

source of the rambling. They look at Sven - could he actually

be talking? Sven looks back at them, his antlers tangled in

branches, just as baffled as they are.

In the meantime, a nose-less snowman, Olaf, wanders up behind

them.

He stops between Kristoff and Anna. They look down at him.

How did he get there? He suddenly looks up at Anna.

Anna SCREAMS! Reflexes take over and she kicks Olaf's head,

sending it flying off his body and into Kristoff's arms.

Kristoff tosses the head back to Anna and they commence a

game of hot potato.

Olaf's body runs at Anna, arms waving.

Anna slams Olaf's head back on the body, upside down. Olaf

smiles happily, then looks confused.

Anna kneels in front of Olaf and rights his head.

She looks over his innocent face, gets an idea.

She digs into Kristoff's satchel, holds up a carrot just as

Olaf turns toward her. The carrot accidentally slams all the

way through his head.

Olaf sees a tiny piece of carrot sticking out between his

eyes. He lights up.

Anna reaches behind Olaf to the bulk of the carrot sticking

out the back of his head, and pushes it forward.

Olaf opens his arms wide to Anna. That triggers a memory. It

takes her a moment to place it, but then she does.

Olaf looks from Kristoff to Sven, confused.

Sven tries to bite Olaf's nose.

Curious, Kristoff takes one of Olaf's twig arms off, studies

it. It seems to be moving in sync with his other arm.

Olaf's dismembered arm slaps Kristoff across the face.

OLAF'S FANTASY WORLD -- PERFECT SUMMER DAY

Olaf walks through a grassy meadow with the sun shining

behind him. He SINGS.

-Olaf now lies in the sand on a beach.

-Olaf sails in a boat.

-Olaf floats in the water. All his pieces begin to separate.

-Olaf tumbles on a sandy beach with sand-snowmen.

-Olaf and the seagull break out into a tap-dance.

-Olaf and another snowman drink hot chocolate in a hot tub.

-Olaf tap dances with a gaggle of seagulls.

-Olaf bounds down a grassy hill.

He stops at a puddle, looks down at it. Smiles. Hops over it.

-Olaf runs with a checkered blanket that he spreads out. He

relaxes and stares at the blue sky.

Sven, Anna, Kristoff and Olaf have a picnic.

Olaf sings the final note. We swing around him and return to:

REALITY. He then straightens up and smiles.

Olaf grabs Anna's hand and pulls her along up the mountain.

Sven hops along, happily following them. Kristoff watches all

of them like they're nuts.

EXT. ARENDELLE, VILLAGE -- DAY

A layer of solid ice coats everything. People huddle around

weak fires. Anxiety runs high amongst the villagers and

guests. We pass two CITIZENS fighting over a woodpile.

Like a light in the dark, Hans moves through the crowd.

He hands the stack of cloaks to a guard.

Just then the Duke approaches Hans.

Hans's nice eyes turn to threatening slits.

Suddenly they hear the alarmed whinny of Anna's horse. It

returns alone, bucking and kicking. Hans grabs its reins.

Hans steadies the horse, looks up at the mountain. He sees

all the panicked faces of the kingdom looking to him.

Volunteers, some from Arendelle, some from other lands, rush

up to offer their services.

His two thugs sneer.

EXT. THE NORTH MOUNTAIN -- DAY

Anna, Kristoff, Sven, and Olaf move through hostile terrain.

Wind-swept icicles face horizontal.

Kristoff, so stunned by her casual plan, doesn't look where

he's going and ends up with an ice-spike to the nose. He

stops short, GULP, moves carefully around the spike.

Olaf backs right into an icicle. It runs through his torso.

He laughs it off.

EXT. STEEP MOUNTAIN FACE -- DAY

Anna and Kristoff hit what looks like a dead end. The face of

the mountain goes straight up.

Kristoff looks around, sighs. Digs in his rucksack.

Sven nudges Kristoff, who looks up to see Anna trying to

climb the cliff's flat face.

Kristoff watches her searching for footholds and hand-holds.

Anna kicks a foot above her head to catch a foot hold.

Anna realizes she's stuck.

REVEAL: she's only about six feet up. Her muscles shake.

Kristoff smiles, getting a kick out of her.

He pulls the rope from his bag. Just then Olaf steps out from

behind a rock and waves to Kristoff.

Anna drops off the cliff. Kristoff catches her.

She hops down, brushes off her dress, and bounds off.

Kristoff watches after her, digging her fearless pluck.

EXT. BASE OF THE ICE PALACE -- DAY

Anna, Kristoff, and Olaf approach Elsa's elegant ice palace.

Anna climbs the steps with Olaf. Sven tries to follow. His

hooves slip out. He scrambles but can't get traction.

Kristoff runs to his aide.

Kristoff settles Sven back down the stairs and pats him.

Sven obediently plops his reindeer butt down and wags his

tail. Kristoff climbs the stairs, admiring the ice details.

Anna arrives at the door. Hesitates.

Anna finally KNOCKS. The sound echoes inside. The ice doors

slide open.

Anna goes to step in. Kristoff follows. She gets a thought,

stops him.

Olaf starts to head inside. Anna stops him.

As Anna walks inside. Olaf starts counting.

Kristoff joins in.

INT. ELSA'S PALACE -- DAY

Anna walks into a great foyer. The place is beautiful, but

also eerie.

Anna slips. Steadies herself.

Elsa steps out of the shadows onto a balcony. She sees Anna,

looks to her longingly.

Anna can't help but be struck by Elsa's beauty.

Anna starts to climb the stairs.

Elsa backs up, away from Anna.

Anna takes another step up. Elsa backs up more.

Olaf comes running in the front door. He waves.

Olaf stops beside Anna, looks up at Elsa, intimidated.

Anna kneels down beside Olaf.

Elsa smiles, but then a memory returns to her.

FLASHBACK: Young Anna is struck by Elsa's powers.

Young Anna falls unconscious. Young Elsa races to her.

THE PRESENT: Elsa's face sinks in pain.

Elsa turns and heads up the second story steps.

Elsa continues to flee. Anna pursues.

Anna SINGS.

They arrive on the top floor, Elsa's main living space. Elsa

turns back to Anna, grateful, but determined.

Elsa opens up the balcony doors.

Elsa looks past Anna's shoulder out white-peaked mountains.

Snow starts to swirl around the room.

The snow picks up. Anna tries to fight through it.

But as Anna sings, we lose sight of her in the thickening

blizzard taking over the room.

Anna's voice disappears in the storm as Elsa cries out.

Elsa's fear, so strong, sucks the blizzard back into her and

then it bursts out, unwittingly, like a sharp snowflake.

Anna is STRUCK right in the heart. She grasps her chest in

pain and stumbles back. She falls to her knees.

Elsa gasps when she sees Anna. Just then, Olaf and Kristoff

rush into the room to Anna's side.

Anna gets to her feet, determined to hide the pain.

Anna doesn't have the answer. Kristoff sees spiky ice shadows

creeping down the walls. Puts a protective arm around Anna.

Elsa waves her arms and builds a giant, menacing snowman.

We'll call him MARSHMALLOW.

EXT. ICE PALACE -- DAY

Marshmallow holds Anna and Kristoff by the scruff of their

necks in one hand and Olaf in the other.

Marshmallow tosses Kristoff and Anna down the steps.

Anna and Kistoff slide past Sven, who's got his tongue stuck

to the ice railing.

Olaf's head smashes into a snowbank nearby.

Anna and Kristoff duck as the rest of Olaf slams into the

snowbank.

Marshmallow turns to go back into the castle.

Incensed, Anna tries to march back up the stairs.

Kristoff grabs her, pulls her back.

All right feisty pants. Calm             Let me at him. I want to get

down. Woaw. Just let the snow            him. I.... Okay. I'm Calm.

man be.

Anna backs down...for a moment. Then she grabs a snowball and

throws it at Marshmallow.

The tiny little ball hits Marshmallow's back, not making even

the slightest dent. But it's enough to infuriate him. He

ROARS. Spikes shoot out of his joints.

Kristoff pushes Anna along. Sven runs off in the opposite

direction. Olaf's belly and butt fall and follow Sven.

Marshmallow goes charging after Anna and Kristoff as Olaf's

head falls and lands face down in snow.

Anna and Kristoff leap and slide down a steep slope. They

tumble to a stop at the bottom just as Marshmallow lands hard

right behind them.

They're off again...through a maze of conifers that sag under

the weight of the snow, Marshmallow hot on their trail.

Anna grabs a branch of a sagging trees and releases all of

the snow. The tree snaps upright, knocking Marshmallow back.

Anna and Kristoff burst out of the conifer forest and almost

run right off a cliff. They stop short, toes on the edge.

Kristoff ties the rope around Anna and pulls tight.

He drops to his knees and starts digging a u-shape in the

snow with a pick axe.

They hear an angry ROAR coming closer.

Anna preps for the jump like a boxer getting ready to fight.

A huge tree flies through the air toward them.

Anna jumps and pulls Kristoff over the edge with her. They

hang upside down over the cliff by the rope. The rope catches

their fall.

Back up top, Olaf emerges from the woods. He's a complete

mess, all his body parts are in the wrong places. He huffs

and puffs, struggling to run.

He stops. Puts his body back together in the right order.

Marshmallow steps up behind Olaf. Olaf turns to face him.

Marshmallow roars and approaches Kristoff's snow anchor.

Olaf jumps onto Marshmallow's leg trying to stop him, but not

making much of a difference.

Marshmallow flicks Olaf off his leg and right over the cliff.

Olaf passes Anna and Kristoff.

Marshmallow starts yanking Kristoff and Anna's rope up.

Kristoff's head hits the cliff.

Kristoff passes out and hangs like a rag doll.

Marshmallow pulls them up. He roars and breathes snow all

over them.

Anna whips out a knife and cuts the rope. Kristoff comes to

just as they fall. They both SCREAM!

SLAM!

REVEAL: Anna opens her eyes to find herself buried up to her

shoulders in the soft thick snow. She laughs.

She looks up to see Olaf's upper half hanging onto Kristoff's

boots, which are sticking out of the snow.

Suddenly, Kristoff's head pops up. He spits out snow.

Olaf's bottom goes running by.

Kristoff grabs Olaf's head and puts it on his body.

Sven walks up and sniffs Olaf's nose.

Olaf turns to Anna and Kristoff just as Sven goes to bite off

his nose -- and misses.

Kristoff goes over to help Anna, who is stuck in the snow.

He lifts her out easily.

They meet eyes. Wait. Is that chemistry?

She touches the spot where he banged his head.

He catches himself. Waves off the pain with a giggle.

The awkwardness is killing him.

She thinks he means it looks bad. She smooths it down.

She grabs her braid as a tendril turns white.

Olaf's head pops up. He's holding his head up off his body to

join the conversation.

He heads towards the sunset. Sven and Olaf follow.

He looks her over, remembering the moment he saw the trolls

heal her as a child.

As they round the bend, the sun sets and Olaf turns to Sven.

INT. ELSA'S PALACE -- DAY

Elsa paces, distraught. She talks to herself.

She hears ice cracking. Stops. Looks around. She's left a

sharp wake of ice spikes behind her on the floor. They grow

up the wall, taking over the castle.

EXT. BLACK MOUNTAINS -- NIGHT

The Northern Lights are bright. Olaf stares at them in awe as

he rides on Sven's back.

Behind Olaf and Sven, Anna walks with Kristoff. She shivers.

He reaches like he might put an arm around her, but decides

against it. He looks around as if he doesn't know what to do,

then gets a thought.

He takes her hand and pulls her around a bend into a rock-

lined pass.

Steam vents, powered by the volcanic activity, dot the path.

He holds her hands over one of them.

They continue on the path, walking from vent to vent.

Anna touches Kristoff's arm, reassuringly.

Kristoff smiles, appreciating her sincerity.

Mustering the courage, Kristoff steps forward and with a wave

of the arms announces--

REVEAL: he's surrounded by rocks.

As Kristoff and Sven move through the rocks, waving and

greeting, Olaf and Anna stand frozen, dumbfounded.

Anna snaps out of her shock and starts backing away.

Just then the rocks around her start rolling.

Olaf lights up and chases the rocks, who surround Kristoff

and unfold as trolls.

Olaf jumps around all excitedly.

He then stops, confused, and looks to one of the trolls.

Anna watches, shocked and confused.

The trolls all want Kristoff's attention. One troll yanks him

down with a boulder's strength.

Another troll tries to pull off his clothes.

The kid troll jumps up on Kristoff's arm. Kristoff sinks

under the weight of him.

Anna still stares, confused, then realizes...

Silence. All troll eyes turn to Anna. Blink. Blink.

Suddenly Anna is surrounded by trolls. They body-surf/roll

Anna over to Kristoff. She falls into his arms.

Bulda climbs on top of her husband, Cliff, to get a good look

at Anna. She studies her like she's a piece of cattle.

Anna laughs, uncomfortable, not knowing what to say.

Bulda SINGS.

The girl trolls sweep Anna away. The boys take Kristoff.

TROLLS beat. Blink. Blink. The boy trolls turn, huddle...

Kristoff looks over at Anna. She actually looks shockingly

beautiful dressed in moss, lit by shimmering crystals.

By this time Kristoff and Anna are being ushered into a pit

by the sheer force of numbers.

During this last bit Anna and Kristoff are looking at each

other differently. Hmmm. Maybe those trolls are right?

Sparks! Chemistry!

Just then, Anna collapses. Kristoff catches her. She's

shivering something fierce.

He pulls off her cape and hat.

Just then Grand Pabbie pushes his way through the crowd.

Trolls clear the way for Pabbie. He stops at the edge of the

pit.

Kristoff helps Anna over. Pabbie looks into her weak eyes.

A bunch of trolls give each other kisses.

Anna shivers again, collapsing into Kristoff's arms. More of

her hair turns white.

Kristoff grabs Sven's antlers. Sven pulls them out.

Kristoff helps Anna onto Sven and hops up behind her.

Sven takes off. Olaf grabs Sven's tail, rides with them.

EXT.    ELSA'S PALACE - DAWN

Hans and the men tread cautiously towards the castle.

The Duke's thugs exchange a look. Suddenly, a mass of snow

rises from the ground behind Hans. It's Marshmallow, Elsa's

snow guard.

He slams a fist inches from Hans. Hans deftly dodges out of

the way. All of the guards take up arms against Marshmallow,

who quickly knocks them over.

Marshmallow throws down a guard and his horse, who topple

over Hans. Marshmallow raises his foot to stomp on Hans, but

Hans barrel-rolls himself to safety. He sees his sword,

leaps, and grabs it.

Just then, Elsa peeks out the front doors.

The Duke's two thugs see her.

The thugs charge up the stairs.

INT. ELSA'S PALACE -- DAY

They guards burst through the ice doors.

Elsa flees to the top floor of her palace. The guards pursue.

They trap her on the top floor, raise their crossbows.

One of the thugs shoots an arrow right at Elsa. At the last

moment she creates an ice wall. It stops the arrow, inches

from her face.

The thugs reposition to take another shot.

Elsa shoots ice at the thugs. They duck out of the way and

continue the attack.

Elsa fights for her life.

BACK OUTSIDE: Hans is nearly crushed by Marshmallow. He rolls

away. Jumps to his feet. And with agile might, he slices

Marshmallow's leg off with his sword. Marshmallow stumbles

back, off balance. And falls off over the cliff, but not

before striking Hans. Hans goes over the edge.

REVEAL: Hans clings to the ice steps. His men help him up and

they rush into the ice palace.

INT. ICE PALACE -- DAY

Elsa is surrounded. It's do or die. In two swift moves, Elsa

traps one thug in a cage of spikes that threaten his neck.

The other she pushes back with a wall of ice....up against

the balcony doors...which BURST and CRACK.

OUT ONTO THE BALCONY.... The balcony doors shatter. The thug

is pushed to the edge. He's inches away from falling to his

death.

BACK INSIDE: Hans and his men run in. See the destruction and

the thugs near death.

Elsa snaps out of her rage. She sees the men, frightened,

moments from death. She stops. Elsa looks to Hans,

overwhelmed, frightened.

The wall retreats from the thug on the balcony. The ice

spikes lower from the second thug's neck. He takes advantage

and aims his crossbow at Elsa's back.

Seeing it. Hans runs and pushes the crossbow up just as the

arrow releases. The arrow hits the ice chandelier, hanging

directly above Elsa.

The chandelier comes CRASHING DOWN.

Elsa dives out of the way but she falls in the blast.

All we see is ice smashing like glass, and all we hear is the

sound of it shattering as it rings out.

FADE IN ON:

Elsa's face as her eyes flutter open.

She sits up. She's surrounded by stone.

INT. ARENDELLE, DUNGEON -- DAY

Elsa looks to the nearby window. Tries to rush to it. She's

pulled taut by giant shackles that fit like iron gloves.

She's chained to the wall.

Elsa strains to looks out a window...

INSET WINDOW: Arendelle is outside, frozen solid and getting

further buried under the ice and snow that is falling.

Hans enters. He hangs a torch by the door.

Elsa looks to the storm with worry.

Elsa meets his eyes, desperate.

Hans sees the sincerity in her eyes.

Hans walks to the door. He takes the torch.

He opens the door and leaves.

Elsa, distraught, hears cracking. She looks down as her

shackles begin to freeze over. The storm outside picks up.

EXT. THE FJORDS -- DAY

Sven charges down the mountain with Kristoff and Anna on his

back. Olaf slides along beside them, penguin-style.

Anna shivers in Kristoff's arms. She's weakening. Kristoff

takes off his hat and puts it on her head.

They arrive at the walls of Arendelle. Olaf slides past them,

out of control.

He disappears into the village streets.

EXT. CASTLE COURTYARD -- DAY

Guards see Kristoff and Anna approaching.

Sven skids to a stop outside the gates. Kristoff slides off,

holding Anna, and carries her to the gate.

Anna looks up at him, gratefully.

Just then the castle gates open. Gerda, Kai, and a handmaid

rush to help Anna.

Anna is swept away from Kristoff and into the palace grounds.

Kristoff is shut out as the castle gates close on him.

Kristoff stands there with Sven for a beat, staring with

worry at the closed gates.

Finally, he sighs, turns and walks off. Sven reluctantly

follows.

INT. LIBRARY -- DAY

Hans stands with the dignitaries and guards.

Hans hesitates, realizing how much this kingdom has come to

depend on him. Is he really all they have left?

Just then the door opens and Gerda and Kai bring in Anna.

Hans rushes to Anna. She falls into his arms.

She tries to kiss him, but is too weak to pull herself up in

his arms.

Everyone shuffles out, leaving Hans and Anna alone.

Anna crumbles, weak.

Hans carries her to a couch, sets her down.

He takes her chin in his hand and gives her a tender smile.

He leans in slowly...gently...

Then he stops.

Hans gets up, leaving her there.

He goes to the window and shuts the curtains.

Hans crosses the room, grabs a pitcher of water from a table

and goes to the fireplace.

Hans pours the water on the fireplace, putting out the fire.

Anna tries to stop him. She falls to the floor, weak.

Hans approaches Anna.

He bends down, takes her chin in his hand again, this time

not so gently.

She wrenches her face out of his hands.

Hans rises and crosses to the door.

Hans leaves and shuts her in, locking the door. Anna

struggles to the door, yanks on the locked handle.

The rest of her hair turns white and she crumbles to the

floor.

INT. COUNCIL CHAMBER -- NIGHT

The Duke looks out the window at the growing snowstorm. He

rubs his arms and shivers.

Hans comes in, putting on his most distraught face.

Hans stumbles, weak with grief. The men help him to a chair.

He bows his head in a brilliant display of teary grief.

Hans nods; he knows what he's being asked to do, and he'll do

it with the perfect amount of authority and gravitas.

INT. ELSA'S DUNGEON -- DAY

The cell ices over. Elsa looks out at the storm that is

devastating Arendelle, then hears the guards approaching.

Elsa pulls at her shackles. They crack. Just as the door

busts open, the weight of the ice crumbles the walls. The men

duck out of the way.

Hans pushes his way into the room...sees...

The back wall is blown open. Broken shackles rest on the

floor. Elsa is gone.

EXT. MOUNTAIN SLOPE -- DAY

Kristoff heads into the mountains. Sven lags behind, not

wanting to follow. He looks back at the kingdom, then shakes

his head. Enough.

He runs past Kristoff. Stops and turns to face him. He snorts

and grunts.

Sven nudges Kristoff with his antlers.

Sven snorts with more conviction, moos, brays.

Kristoff tries to walk on ahead, but Sven uses his antlers to

lift Kristoff off the ground.

Sven drops him hard then "yells" at him once more.

Sven shakes his head, angrily.

Sven makes an "of-course-she-isn't" face. Kristoff gets it;

he's made his point.

Just then the wind picks up. Kristoff looks back at the

kingdom. Sees a violent winter storm swirling over the

castle. Sharp ice claws its way up the castle, encasing it.

Without hesitating, he dashes back down the mountain. Sven

runs after him, catches up. Kristoff grabs Sven's harness and

jumps onto his back.

INT. LIBRARY -- NIGHT

Anna shivers by the door. She looks up to see ice overtaking

the ceiling.

The door handle suddenly jiggles. Stops. Jiggles again.

CLICK. The door swings open. We see a carrot in the lock and

hear a giggle of victory. Olaf takes the carrot, puts it back

on his face. Then he sees Anna lying there.

He runs to the fireplace. Throws in some fresh wood,

including one of his own arms, which he quickly rescues,

before striking a match and relighting the fire.

He reaches a twig finger toward the flames. It catches on

fire.

He shakes the flame out, as he rushes over to help Anna to

the fire.

He sits down behind her, stubbornly. Leans his back against

hers and thinks.

Olaf hops back up and puts a soothing hand on her shoulder.

His face starts to melt.

But then...his face REALLY melts. He panics, pushes the snow

back in place.

Suddenly, the window blows open, cold wind sweeps in.

Olaf flitters to the window. He pulls one panel of it shut

but struggles with the second panel.

He breaks an icicle off the window, uses it as a telescope

and sees...

Kristoff and Sven running back down the mountain.

Anna tries to get to her feet.

He hurries over, tumbling over the couch, knocking over the

chess set and water jugs.

He hops around in an excited display of hope.

The walls crack under the ice pressure.

They rush out the room just as the ceiling collapses.

INT. CASTLE HALLWAY -- DAY

Anna and Olaf struggle down the hall. Ice spikes grow and

block their path.

Anna looks around desperately for a way out.

EXT. FJORD -- DAY

Elsa runs, but is nearly blinded by the snow and wind.

EXT. CASTLE -- DAY

Anna and Olaf bust open a window. The storm is so strong it

sweeps the window panes away.

It's a long, snowy way down. But what choice do they have?

They slide down the iced-covered building.

Anna arrives at the bottom, weak but uninjured. Olaf gathers

snow along the way. He arrives at the bottom as a giant

snowball.

He shakes off the extra snow as Anna struggles to her feet.

EXT. FJORD -- DAY

Kristoff and Sven bound off the mountain and sprint across

the frozen fjord waters and right into the heart of the

storm. Its white-out wind pushes them back. But they fight

through.

Anna and Olaf reach the shore of the fjords.

The wind lifts Olaf up and pulls him apart. He goes swirling

off into the storm.

Anna struggles on.

Kristoff rides Sven past cracking, frozen ships. Sven

struggles over the uneven surface.

Suddenly, a mangled ship, risen by ice, capsizes   over them.

They give it all they've got as debris falls all   around them

and the mast shatters. They make it past just as   the entire

ship slams down and cracks the thick ice beneath   their feet.

The ice opens up. Sven bravely jumps over a gap. But it's too

wide. He bucks Kristoff to safety, but lands in the freezing

water and disappears below.

At first there's nothing but the wind and the tumbling icy

water. But suddenly, Sven surfaces and claws his way to a

floating ice chunk. He calls out, signalling for Kristoff to

go on.

Anna moves blindly across the fjord. Anna's hands frost over

an icy blue. She stumbles on, determined. But she's running

out of time.

She clutches her chest. The color in her eyes fades, the

inevitable is coming.

Kristoff, lost in the white-out, doesn't know which way to

turn. But then he hears a faint--

Elsa struggles through her own storm, but the fear is

consuming her. A dark shadow approaches. It's Hans.

Elsa backs away from him.

Elsa's face sinks as she realizes what she has done.

Elsa drops to her knees, emotionally broken. And with that,

the swirling storm suddenly stops. The snow freezes mid-air,

hangs suspended, trapped in grief.

Citizens and dignitaries rush to the wall's edge and look out

to see...

Anna, barely able to move but now able to see across the

fjords to...

Anna pushes on towards Kristoff. He runs top speed towards

her. There's still a lot of fjord to cross, but Kristoff is

giving it all he's got. He's going to make it.

But then, Anna hears the sound of a sword being drawn from

its scabbard. She turns and sees Hans, behind Elsa, as he

raises his sword over his head.

Anna looks back at Kristoff as he runs for her. She gives him

a longing look, but then turns away from him and then...

Using all of her remaining strength, as Hans brings his sword

down, Anna throws herself in front of Elsa.

In that instant, Anna freezes to solid ice. The sword hits

her instead of Elsa. The sword shatters completely. The force

of it sends Hans flying back and knocks him out.

Elsa rushes to Anna and touches her sister's frozen face.

Olaf walks up and sees Anna, frozen.

Elsa hugs Anna and cries.

Kristoff watches in shocked despair. Sven steps up to his

side.

Citizens and dignitaries on the castle walls bow their heads.

All of Arendelle is joined in somber silence.

But then, Anna warms. She begins to thaw.

Olaf looks up and gasps. Kristoff and Sven notice, light up.

Anna bends her arm and embraces Elsa.

Anna opens her eyes. She smiles at Elsa, relieved.

They embrace.

Olaf realizes what's happened. He's so excited about it, he

lifts his head right off his body and exclaims--

Elsa looks at Anna with confidence.

Elsa lifts her arms, and the ground shakes and cracks. The

ice and snow breaks away and rises high into the air.

Beneath their feet the bow of a ship thaws.

The entire fjord melts and other boats right themselves.

The villagers come out to see the warmth returning.

In one final wave, Elsa draws all of the snow into a giant

snowflake in the sky, then waves it away, leaving only a warm

summer day.

Elsa waves her hand and surrounds Olaf with a swirl of cold

air. He refreezes. Above his head she leaves a little,

perpetually-snowing storm cloud. Olaf loves it.

Kristoff sees Hans trying to get to his feet. He marches

toward him, prepared for a fight. But Anna puts up a hand and

stops him.

She'll handle this. She goes over to Hans.

She turns away from him, proud of her words. But not yet

satisfied, she turns back and punches him right in the face.

He falls overboard.

Elsa comes over to Anna and hugs her. Over her shoulder,

Kristoff meets Anna's eyes. She smiles brighter, happy.

EXT. ARENDELLE -- DAY

It's a beautiful summer day. The mighty ships have been

repaired and are sailing away.

On one of the ships, HANS is thrown into a brig.

Down on the dock, Arendelle guards lead the Duke and his two

thugs to their ship.

Kai steps down from the gangplank to the dock.

The guards usher him and his thugs onto their ship.

EXT. VILLAGE SQUARE -- DAY

Anna runs through the crowd, pulling a blindfolded Kristoff

along behind her. She's so excited she can't stand it.

She runs him right into a pole.

EXT. ARENDELLE DOCKS -- DAY

Anna skips to the perfect spot and stops.

She takes off the blindfold. Kristoff opens his eyes. Before

him sits the most beautiful, suped-up sled. Sven poses in

front of it -- Vanna White-style.

Sven shows off the Ice-Master-and-Deliverer medal like he's

king of the bucks.

But he can't help but admire her enthusiasm.

He sweeps her up high overhead and spins her around.

He drops her, suddenly embarrassed.

She gives him a quick kiss on the cheek.

He smiles and goes for it. It's a true love's kiss, alright.

We move past them to find Olaf enjoying the summer.

With his snow cloud safely overhead, he's free to smell the

flowers, which he does. Then sneezes his carrot nose off.

Sven catches it between his teeth. Olaf gasps as Sven sucks

the whole carrot into his mouth. It's gone.

Olaf's face sinks in sadness. But not to fear, Sven spits the

carrot back out and jams it into Olaf's face where it

belongs. It's completely covered in reindeer spit, but Olaf

doesn't seem to mind. He hugs Sven happily.

EXT. CASTLE COURTYARD -- DAY

The gates to the castle are wide open. In the courtyard,

stands Elsa.

Villagers cheer. Elsa stops and creates an ice rink. The

people, skates at the ready, hope onto it and twirl about.

Elsa then freezes the fountain in a beautiful design and adds

some snow flurries for atmosphere.

Anna comes slipping in. Elsa catches her.

Elsa then waves her hand and magical ice skates (literally

made of ice) form on Anna's boots.

Elsa grabs Anna's hands and pulls her along on the ice. Anna

slips and slides, but laughs in delight.

Sven goes slipping past. Kristoff runs after him.

Olaf skates and helps Elsa coach Anna.

We pull away slowly, into the sky. We arrive at a bird's-eye

view to see that where the castle had crumbled has been

repaired with a ice.

All is right in Arendelle.

