Dark and dusty, packed floor to ceiling with crates and

palettes. Offscreen, a SOAP OPERA plays on TV.

Ronna comes around the corner, a thundercloud of anger and

frustration. She passes by CLAIRE (19) and the British SIMON

(21) at the phone, sorting through a crumpled list.

Simon's eyes track Ronna as she passes.

At her locker, Ronna misdials the combination. Frustrated,

she POUNDS the locker, then re-dials.

Simon approaches Ronna gingerly. Claire gives up on him,

setting to work opening a box of expired cookies.

She trades her apron for her coat.

She slams her locker. She crosses to the time clock.

Claire looks over, looks away. Ronna heads for the door

leading outside.

He follows her out the door.

Ronna forges ahead, ignoring him.

She stops, turns on him. Her look could freeze lava.

A beat. The start of a smile. Simon's just pushing her

buttons.

She only half-believes him. Simon's not prone to benevolence.

He peels off three twenties from his clip. She looks at the

money, thinking. Finally, she takes it.

Beyond exhausted, she starts walking back to the store. After

a beat...

Without turning back, she flips him off.

An UNSUSPECTING WOMAN takes a container of orange juice from                     *

the refrigerator case. Suddenly,

AN ARM

reaches out through the case, grabbing it away. The woman                        *

gasps.

MANNIE (17) pulls his arm back through with the orange juice.                    *

He's on break with Ronna and Claire.                                             *

All eyes look up to the voice of God.

She rips open a case of Snapple, taking one.                                     *

Mannie is checking out a small printed rave invite.

In a flash of inspiration...

Ronna rips off a receipt, handing it to a CLUTCHY OLD WOMAN.

Starts scanning someone else's groceries. Mannie is digging

out returns from under Ronna's checkstand. He suddenly looks

up.

Mannie pushes his cart down to the next checkstand.

Ronna looks up at the customer, a handsome college guy (ADAM).

He's cute in that fresh-scrubbed, Midwestern way.

ON RONNA

Whatever.

Adam's friend ZACK is with him in line, YABBERING on a cellular

phone. Ronna hits total. $25.12. Adam hands her a credit

card. She swipes it through the machine and starts bagging

their groceries.

A glance between Adam and Zack, hard to read why. Zack nods

for Adam to go ahead.

She's not going to rise to the bait. Zack looks over at Adam,

then to Ronna.

She stops bagging. Looks at Adam. At Zack.

He pulls out a postcard-sized invite. Bright colors, slick

printing...

Switterman walks down the end of the aisle, headed for the

manager's desk.

All three watch Switterman pass. It gives Ronna a beat to

think. She hands Zack a post-it note and a pen.

Adam smiles. It's a nice smile. Even Ronna notices.

The Beast is Mannie's pride and joy,    a late-70's Toyota held

together with duct tape and prayer.     It's outfitted for the

season with Christmas lights lining    the windshield and back

window. Santa has replaced Jesus on     the dashboard.

Ronna climbs in the passenger door, counting a stack of 20's

fresh from the ATM. Claire's in back.

Claire sits forward in the seat, suddenly worried.

She looks at Mannie. He shrugs, unsure.

Ronna pockets the cash. Mannie's about to say something when

she stops him.

Mannie and Claire remain unconvinced. Ronna reaches for the

keys, CRANKING the ignition even though Mannie's driving. The

ENGINE purrs.

A BUZZER sounds.

Ronna stands by the intercom of a two-story walkup in

Hollywood. Waiting, she looks back to the street, where The

Beast sits idle at the curb.

A long pause.

Another long pause. Ronna looks back at The Beast,

embarrassed. Finally the door BUZZES and a latch CLICKS open.

Stairs lead up.

She motions back "five minutes" to The Beast.

Three out of four lights are burned out in the hallway.

A few feet ahead of Ronna, a door stands partly ajar. A weird

red-and-green light spills out through the crack, along with

an Alice in Chains SONG.

Ronna pushes the door open from the hallway.

Shades drawn, the room is completely insulated from reality.

The light bulbs have been markered over, casting eerie pools of

red and green light. Broken CD's dangle off a tiny Christmas

tree by the stereo. Slacker seasonalism.

Ronna closes the door behind her.

TODD GAINES emerges from the darkened bedroom, tying the

string on a pair of sweat pants. That's all he's wearing.

He settles into an overstuffed couch and lights a Marlboro.

Adjusts himself in the crotch. Motions for her to take a

chair. She's more nervous than she wants to let on.

IN THE BACKGROUND

A WOMAN with a ballerina's body comes out of the bedroom. She

tucks an unrealistically large breast down into her tight top.

She leans over the back of the sofa for quick, tonguey kiss.

In a sneak attack, she shoves a Santa's hat down to his ears.

He bats the white pom out of his eyes.

The woman is out the door without a word. Gaines looks back

over at Ronna, not the least bit self-conscious about the hat.

He takes a deep drag on the cigarette, looking at her. Blows

the smoke out. He picks up a remote control. Aims it at the

stereo.

CLOSE UP

The volume meter, climbing fast.

Out of the green, into the red.

The MUSIC is deafening.

ON GAINES

On top of Ronna, face in her ear. His hand wraps around her

head, holding her tight. We can't HEAR what he's saying.

Ronna's eyes betray her fear.

He backs off. She looks confused.

He nods. Do it.

The MUSIC still BLARING, she stands and slowly unbuttons her

shirt. Takes it off -- very self-consciously. Pulls her t-

shirt off over her head. Just her bra underneath. He motions

for her to turn around. She does, then back.

Her hands are shaking. She holds them together.

Gaines aims the remote at the stereo. The MUSIC retreats.

He climbs over the sofa to a dresser. In a drawer, he digs

down through a pile of socks to find a wide-mouthed bottle.

And an empty Tylenol bottle. Blows out the dust.

He transfers pills from the big bottle to the Tylenol bottle.

He snaps the cap on tight.

He offers it to Ronna, who doesn't reach out for it.

Gaines undoes the cap of the Tylenol bottle, starts pouring the

pills back out.

He gives her a quick look over.

Ronna looks at the Tylenol bottle in his hands. Thinking...

Ronna kneels down beside the passenger window. Knocks on the

glass. Claire rolls down the window. MUSIC spills out.

The release BUZZER stops as Ronna pulls open the door to the

stairs. Claire just stands there, disbelieving, making no

motion to go in.

It's not just the matter at hand, but years of minor adjustment

and one-upsmanship. Ronna finally drops the bravado.

A beat.

Ronna holds the door as Claire reluctantly steps inside.

The clock on the dashboard reads 8:04.

ENGINE running, The Beast is parked along a residential street

in Venice. In the driver's seat, Mannie looks for an address.

He kills the engine. Ronna does a quick face-check in the rear

view mirror. She's out the door, moving a hundred miles an

hour.

She looks back in. Mannie shakes the Tylenol bottle she

forgot. Tosses them to her.

She pockets the bottle. SLAMS the door. Mannie tracks her as

she circles the car.

In his palm, two tablets. He works up a good gob of spit, then

swallows them both. They're bitter as hell.

A beefy guy named BURKE HALVERSON reaches out a hand.

Her PAGER goes off, a shrill CRY. She quiets it, checks the

number. Burke smiles.

Only now do we TURN to see Adam and Zack standing nearby,

trying to look cool. Their house is spartan even by frat-boy

standards, just goodwill furniture and as-is Ikea.

Burke does a hepcat swing through the kitchen door, leaving

Ronna alone with Adam and Zack.

Adam looks at Zack. Ronna catches it.

He hands her a beer.

ANGLE ON RONNA

watching them with a lion tamer's concentration. Burke looks

back over at her.

He moves at Ronna strangely. It freaks her out.

Burke shoots Adam a look. Ronna's already headed down the

hall. They wait silently until Ronna's out of earshot.

A MONITOR

In black-and-white VIDEO, we're looking down on wide-angle

view of the entire room -- a surveillance camera. We can see

the reflection of someone watching.

Burke walks off camera, headed for the hall. Zack hangs his

head. Adam looks up at the camera.

CLOSE UP: Ronna locks the door.

She leans back against the frame, panicking.

She turns on both faucets.

She checks the window.

Nailed shut.

She looks at herself in the spotless mirror.

Burke leans up against the outside of the door, listening.

She pulls the Tylenol bottle out of her pocket.

She looks down at the toilet.

Hesitating, until...

A KNOCK on the door.

Ronna's heart is in her throat.

CU: The handle, rocking back and forth, locked.

She struggles with the cap.

Child safety.

It finally POPS open.

A few pills scatter on the carpet.

She dumps the contents into the toilet.

FLUSHES.

Burke hears it. Freaks out. He rifles through the keys on his

belt.

Ronna's on all fours, searching for spilled pills. She tosses

them into the swirling water.

CU: The hole in the center of the door knob. A thin allen

wrench slips in.

Burke forces the door open to reveal

RONNA

standing with her beer, cool as an Eskimo.

She pushes past him into the hall.

Ronna is headed for the front door. Following behind her,

Burke waves at Adam -- BLOCK THAT DOOR!

Adam steps in her way.

She bumps back into Adam at the door.      Burke is closing in.

Zack chokes a laugh. Burke stares right through her. Ronna

swigs her beer like a trucker.

BLACK AND WHITE / SURVEILLANCE CAMERA

The men just stand there, watching.

BACK TO COLOR

CLOSE ON Burke, dumbstruck. He nods at Adam.

Adam steps away from the door.

Ronna backs her way out the door, never taking her eyes off

them. The door CLOSES.

A BEAT. Adam and Zack await the fury. Burke looks back to the

hallway.

A white guy with dreadlocks comes out of a locked door. His

name is LOOP.

He cracks a videotape against the doorframe, pulling out the

innards.

The car is parked on the side of another residential street.

Ronna's PAGER goes off with a shrill BEEPING. She checks the

number.

A long silent beat as both put on their thinking caps. Mannie

tries to beat down a smile that curls the edges of his lips.

He clenches his jaw, trying to keep it in.

She turns his chin to hold his eyes to the light. They're wild

and dilated. And his smile resurfaces despite his best

efforts.

He sits quietly, a scolded dog.

A sign over the entrance reads "Yule Save More." Christmas

MUSAK blares "Jingle Bell Rock" overhead.

The automatic doors slide open to reveal Ronna and Mannie, who

split up. We follow Ronna, who is now wearing Mannie's black

trench coat. The store is almost empty, with STOCKMEN

beginning to unload palettes.

Ronna turns down an aisle marked "Soap/Shampoo/Drugs."

Mannie scans his hand on a UPC register, watching the laser on

his fingers, listening to it BWOOP. He smiles broadly at an

idle REGISTER WOMAN, who doesn't even look up. He then ducks

down behind the counter.

A CRAPPY CD PLAYER

spins away. He presses the "| " button, then cranks the

volume dial all the way up.

The opening FLOURISHES of a Latinized Christmas classic BLAST

through the PA system.

The Register Woman looks up.

Two STOCKBOYS look up.

A COUPON-WIELDING WOMAN looks up, confused, but proceeds to

push her cart around the end of the row.

Ronna looks both ways. She's alone.

She starts grabbing boxes off the shelf and shoving them into

the pockets of Mannie's coat. Cold medicine. Allergy

medicine. Every pill she can find.

SWITTERMAN

comes ROARING by behind her, heading for the front. She tries

to duck away, but he's too steamed to even notice her.

Ronna does a quick check to see if she got everything.

Hurrying down the aisle, she swipes a bottle of Evian.

The two stockboys give a wide-eyed, Spielberg           stare...

We MOVE to the next aisle, where the Coupon Woman is staring at

the same thing...

We MOVE again to Ronna at the end of her aisle. She just now

sees it...

ANGLE ON Mannie. He sticks his hand out.

ANGLE ON the Register Woman. She sticks her hand out.

Their palms meet. Their hips come together. And they dance.

What starts as a tango, spirals into a STAR SEARCH-y routine of

dips, spins and Arthur Murray nightmares. Torville and Dean on

linoleum.

The stockboys watch, horrified but transfixed. The Coupon

Woman taps her shoe against the wheel of her cart.

ANGLE ON MANNIE

dancing his heart out. His face is red and dripping sweat.

He's too out of it to notice.

HIS POINT OF VIEW

a JET ENGINE ROAR, swirling light. The MUSIC is stacked up on

itself, overlapping and bizarre. For just a moment,

horrifying.

ANGLE ON MANNIE

he stops mid-twirl. Holding himself against a magazine rack.

Ronna takes him by the shoulder.

MANNIE'S POINT OF VIEW

Ronna leans into a fish-eye swirl. The ROAR grows louder,

continuing as we

Behind the wheel, Ronna's ripping open boxes of medication.

Cracking open jars, she spills the tablets out on her hand.

She digs through the pockets of the coat, seeing what else she

grabbed. Her BEEPER goes off. She hits it to make it stop.

She pops an allergy pill out of its blister pack. Compares it

to another pill, almost the same.

Making a decision, Ronna starts popping the rest of the pills

out of the blister pack, dumping them into the Tylenol bottle.

Her BEEPER goes off again.

Mannie nurses the Evian bottle.

A PHONE rings.

Gaines picks up the receiver, clicking the remote to mute the

CD player. He's still shirtless and wearing the Santa Claus

hat.

Claire is sitting in the corner, holding herself very still.

She digs a postcard-ish invite out of her purse. He snaps his

fingers. She hands it over.

He hangs up. The CD player is still muted. The silence is

vast. Gaines scratches an armpit. Checks his watch. Claire

looks away.

He gestures like he's going to click on the CD player, but

instead points it at her.

She doesn't say anything. Gaines laughs his ass off.

She looks back over at him. He slowly undoes the drawstring to

his sweat pants. Starts to reach inside. Claire watches,

revolted and disbelieving. A beat.

His hand reaches between the cushions of the couch, where he

pulls out a 9mm handgun.

The gun pointed at her, Claire is losing her shit. Her face

squeezes tight, like her head's being sucked through a tiny

hole. Just when she's about to pop...

The BUZZER sounds.

Saved by the bell.

Gaines pushes the TALK button on the intercom.

Smiling, Gaines hits the DOOR button. Claire collects her

wits.

Ronna looks back to Mannie.

He nods, wiping a finger across his forehead to squeegee off

the sweat.

Gaines sits pensively on the edge of the couch, then smiles

warmly.

Claire smiles, relieved. Mannie stands behind Ronna, his gaze

carefully fixed on the wall.

Ronna's VOICE fades to nothing as we PUSH IN on Mannie.

A SIAMESE CAT

lays down on a table in front of him, staring at him.

Mannie squints, looks around. He and the cat are alone in the

room.

Mannie smiles.

The cat curls itself.

Mannie snaps back, eyes panicked.

It's a few minutes later. Everyone's in different places,

different moods. Mannie hasn't moved at all.

Ronna steers Mannie towards the door, trying to keep his back

to Todd. But at the last moment...

A beat. Todd shakes the pill bottle.

They trade a look as she exits. Gaines picks up the cat, gives

it a scratch. Silly humans.

Mannie lies on the roof of The Beast, arms spread wide,

cigarette in his fingers.

Ronna and Claire stare at each other, a competition, neither

wanting to exhale first.

Hands waving, Claire struggles to keep herself from laughing

and choking. Finally she gives in, coughing up smoke and snot.

Ronna blows out a cool ribbon of smoke.

She hands over a wreath of plastic holly.

She leans down to let Claire pin the holly in a crown around

and through her hair.

Mannie's hand flops down to the window. Claire hands him the

joint.

From RONNA'S P.O.V., we see the floor is still littered with

dozens of boxes of medicine.

A beat. She picks up a box.

An idea forming, Ronna sits back up. Smiles.

Ronna and Claire weave through the densely packed lot, where

RAVE-GOERS party in and around their cars, drinking and

smoking.

As they walk, Ronna pops allergy medicine out of a blister-foil

pack. She tosses the box away. Scanning the lot, she points

to a mini-van.

Ronna knocks on the window. A NERVOUS TEENAGER rolls it down,

releasing a cloud of smoke. Ronna smiles.

Ronna and Claire are packed in tight with three VALLEY

HIGHSCHOOL COUPLES. The guys are stoned, the girls uptight.

They're all breaking curfew.

A look from Claire -- why are dragging me into this? But she

goes for it.

He pulls out his wallet and hands Ronna a twenty. She gives

the Anorexic Girl a tablet, who downs the pill with a swig of

Diet Coke.

Fila Guy nods, firing up the mini-bong again.

Mannie leans against a wall, pale and out of it, a nauseated

smile on his face.

A SKATE-PUNK GUY comes up to them, money in hand.

Ronna takes the money, looks him over.

A beat. He pulls up his shirt to show his skinny white chest.

Deeming him worthy, Ronna hands him a pill and sends him on his

way. She adds the twenty to her stack.

The opening RUMBLES of an industrial ANTHEM rise as we cut to:

MUSIC builds throughout.

Standing at the dresser, Gaines cracks open Ronna's bottle.

Pills spill out on a plate.

He counts them, pushing them aside in groups with a card.

Stops.

Picks one up. Looks at it more closely...

Pulls open a drawer full of socks.

Digs out the wide-mouthed bottle.

Shakes out a pill.

Flicks on a desk lamp.

Looks at both pills in his hand, comparing...

Fuck.

He flips over the card on the dresser.

Mary Xmas.

The invite Claire gave him.

With a sudden RAGE, he WINGS the plate against the far wall.

It SHATTERS.

The music EXPLODES and we're...

A grinding, sweating sea of humanity. In the mosh pit,

SKINHEADS and coked-up POSEURS run in blind circles. A stringy-

haired EYELINER BOY crashes into

RONNA

who had her own groove going. She shoves him back into the

wheel, a foot on his ass.

Claire, behind her, YELLS something in her ear. We can't hear

a thing. Ronna downs the rest of her drink, hands Claire the

cup. That's not what Claire meant -- she's a little pissed --

but Ronna is oblivious.

Both hands free, Ronna pushes her way deeper into the eye of

the storm. She adjusts her holly crown. She's sky high and

loving every minute of it.

The line to get in is longer still, snaking down the wall.

Fila Guy is talking to a friend in a SPIDER MARINE shirt.

We look past Fila Guy to see Todd Gaines, who's been listening.

Seething.

Sweating hard, Mannie is pressed back against a pole, shirt

over his head. Two nose-ringed RIOT GRRRLS are drawing a

Christmas tree on his chest and stomach with a fat magic

marker.

Looking over at the entrance, he watches some GAPSTERS move

past the BOUNCERS. And behind them,

TODD GAINES.

Mannie's drugged eyes go wide with panic. He hunches down.

Gaines starts looking around the edge of the crowd.

Mannie works his way into the mob.

STROBES fire overhead.

Ronna dances on, oblivious...

Gaines circles, searching...

Mannie fights his way through the outer ring of MOSHERS...

Through the crowd, we see Gaines looking in...

Mannie grabs Ronna...

She smiles, tries to kiss him...

He YELLS in her ear. He has to repeat himself...

She looks back over her shoulder...

A space in the crowd...

She sees Gaines. He sees her.

The MUSIC STOPS. Dead silence.

Ronna and Gaines trade stares for what feels like an eternity,

until suddenly...

The MUSIC BLASTS back, harder than ever. Like a shot, Ronna

and Mannie are out of there. Gaines plows through the crowd,

coming after them.

A side door BLASTS open, Ronna dragging Mannie by the wrist.

They race down the alley. A burly BOUNCER shouts after them:

The Bouncer is blindsided by Gaines, who charges after Ronna.

Ronna pulls Mannie into a covered doorway, a niche set off from

the alley. They hide back in the shadows as

GAINES

races past. Ronna kneels down to Mannie, who's hunched over

his knees sweating and shaking.

She puts a hand on his sweating forehead.         His cheeks.

Ronna half-carries Mannie down the alley. He's too heavy to

lift, and too out of it to go much further. He collapses to

his knees. She can't get him back up.

Without warning, he HEAVES. We hear the SPLASH on the asphalt.

She props his head back against a dumpster. Wipes his face.

She fishes the keys out of his pocket. Mannie grabs onto her

arm, tight.

She pushes his legs into the shadows. He's crying.

In the distance, we hear the RUMBLE of the music. Keeping low,

Ronna works her way down a row, coming to Mannie's car. She

tries one key, then another.

We LOOK UP to see Todd Gaines watching her from the hood of a

nearby car.

Her heart skips a beat. She drops the keys.

He climbs off the car, approaching.

He pulls his gun from the back of his jeans. By instinct, she

starts to move away.

A red Miata moves down the row behind Ronna. She looks to it

for help, but it's already passed.

He cocks the gun.

At the last moment, Ronna bolts. She ducks around the corner

of a van, only to see...

A RED MIATA

doing 20 in reverse. It brakes, but there's no time. It hits

her hard.

She flies up over the roof of the car, CRASHING down on the

soft top. Her limp body starts to slip down the windshield,

but finally sticks.

PUSH IN ON GAINES

seeing the hit. HEARING it. Stunned.

A beat, then we hear the engine REV, pulling back again. That

shakes Ronna loose, letting her drop over the headlights in

front.

Rolling down the slope at the edge of the field, Ronna topples

ass-first into a drainage ditch. Her body lands with a

sickening THUD.

GAINES

stands where he is, gun still in hand, dumbfounded.

He looks to the Miata. It suddenly takes off, kicking up dirt

and grass. For a moment, all is quiet.

Finally, Gaines tucks the gun into his jeans. One last look

around, then he starts working his way back across the parking

lot. Disappears.

We stay on Ronna's body as we HEAR the Miata suddenly pull

away. Somewhere in the distance, the Mary Xmas Supafest is

still RAGING, but here it's only a WHISPER with a beat.

With a sudden SPASM, Ronna moves. Turns herself over on her

back. Each breath WHEEZES and GURGLES.

She pulls the remainder of the holly crown out of her hair and

tosses it aside. She tries to push herself up. Her legs won't

move.

Catching her breath, she looks to the top of the ditch, waiting

for somebody to look in. No one does. Adjusting herself, she

slides against a weathered magazine. Spin. Jane's Addiction

on the cover.

She collapses back, a new wave of pain.

After a beat, she suddenly LAUGHS, until gradually it becomes a

COUGHING. She pushes her hair back, streaking blood across her

face.

There's no answer. The YELLING hurts. She won't do that

again.

A sudden spasm of pain. She winces, sobbing. It passes.

She COUGHS as she laughs, spitting out some blood. We PULL

BACK, rising higher until we slowly

Simon keeps KICKING.

The lighter burns his thumb. He switches hands. Listens for a

second. The car isn't driving anymore.

He tries to catch his breath, but keeps getting more panicked.

A key SCRAPES in the lock.

The trunk lid opens a crack. Bright daylight spills in.

Simon KICKS the lid and pops up, ready to swing a tire iron.

THREE MEN

back off, laughing. We are...

TINY (19) is not black, but thinks he is.

Simon climbs out of the trunk and does a face-plant in the

gravel. He's shit-faced drunk.

MARCUS (24) was a tailback at UCLA, and still has the build.

He is black, and has no confusion over this matter.

Simon is about to reply when he suddenly HEAVES. Everyone

backs away. Tiny takes the tire iron, puts it to the side of

the trunk. He starts cranking it while HUMMING "Pop Goes the

Weasel," ending with...

A massive land yacht from the pre-Embargo era. SINGH (23) is

driving, nursing a beer. Marcus reads a magazine. Tiny talks

from the enormous back seat, where Simon is recuperating.

The passengers don't seem impressed.

A beat. And another. The matter just won't drop.

Singh MOANS, not again.

It's a dive, and nearly empty. The guys work their way down

both sides of a self-service food bar. Simon is mostly

recovered.

Tiny up-ends the rest of the shrimp cocktail onto his plate.

Pissed, Singh scoops away a handful for himself.

AT THE TABLE

The guys eat. Tiny tries to make a sandwich out of the various

foods on his plate, but the bread keeps crumbling.

He's greeted with skeptical looks.

Singh agrees. Simon, however, is still intrigued.

We hear slot machines CHIMING in the distance. Marcus picks a

gold card up from the counter.

The Desk Woman returns with their keys.

Simon walks away with Marcus.

Doubled over, Tiny BANGS on the bathroom door. Singh emerges,

pale and sweating. He steps over Tiny, who crawls in. Hanging

up his clothes, Marcus waves away the smell.

Singh MOANS, lying down on a bed.

He gives him the finger. Simon is on the phone by the window.

Marcus neatly unfolds his clothes, hanging them up in the

closet.

From the wall, KNOCKING. Simon and Marcus look to a door by

the window.

Simon points at the KNOCKING door. Marcus finally opens it to

reveal a 12 year-old BOY in the adjoining hotel room.

Simon leans around to look.

The Boy's MOTHER yanks him back from the door, shutting it.

Simon and Marcus are fully macked out. Marcus adjusts the

shoulders of his bright yellow jacket.

The elevator bell BINGS.

Simon finds Marcus at a blackjack table.

The DEALER is waiting for Marcus to play. He takes a card,

bust.

Simon hands it over. Marcus pockets it.

VARIOUS SHOTS: Simon wanders, bored. He hits on a WOMAN at

the nickel slots. When she rebuffs him, he turns his attention

to the COCKTAIL WAITRESS.

Simon wanders amid the GUESTS spilling out of the Shapiro

wedding reception. He helps himself to a glass of champagne.

Simon shares the elevator with drunken bridesmaids BECKY

GOLDMAN and REBECCA GOLDSTIEN. Both are 19.

His accent is suddenly Irish. It's weirdly charming.

The doors open at the Beckys' floor. They get off. Rebecca

turns...

While Rebecca smokes up, Becky tears a kleenex in half. She

rolls each piece into a plug, shoving one up each nostril.

Simon hands her the pipe and the lighter.

Rebecca blows a perfect smoke ring at Simon. He smiles, a

little smoke escaping. She leans close and kisses him. Softly

at first, then harder. They're a few beats into it when...

Her kleenex is on fire, flames in each nostril. Hands waving,

she stands up. Snorts hard. The plugs shoot out, landing on

the carpet, which begins to smolder. Simon stamps the flames

out.

Becky is crying.

He kisses her. After a moment, her panic subsides. She kisses

him back.

Simon slides between the two Beckys, three naked bodies

clenching and releasing.

CLOSE ON SIMON

breathing harder and faster, faster, until he suddenly stops.

The expression on his face is agonizing, like a tightrope

walker about to lose his balance. The Beckys stop to watch

him, worried he might be hurt.

Finally, he breathes again.

He shakes his head.

LATER

A new position, Rebecca on top and sweating. Next to Simon,

Becky is passed out and SNORING. It's only as we look over

Rebecca's back that we see

THE CURTAINS ARE ON FIRE.

On the bed, Simon lies motionless in aching nirvana.            His head

turns. He sees the flames. And does nothing.

Rebecca reaches climax with an inhuman series of MOANS. It's

on the third of these that the smoke alarm suddenly BLEATS. It

settles into a piercing WHINE.

Becky falls out of bed, disoriented. Sees the fire and

SCREAMS. Rebecca climbs off Simon to attack the flames with a

pillow, beating them down. Holding her head together, Becky

tries to reach the smoke detector itself.

Amid the chaos, Simon feels for his shoes.

In the elevator on the right, Simon jabs at the button while

getting his jeans on. As his doors slide closed, the left

elevator opens, revealing hotel SECURITY.

Gentle Christmas MUZAK.

At the sinks, Marcus wets his fingers to fix his hair. An OLD

TEXAN washes his hands at the next sink, looks around for a

towel. Marcus takes two from the dispenser, hands them over.

When he's finished, the Texan sets the crumpled towels on the

counter, along with a dollar bill. He taps his hat and leaves.

A beat before Marcus sees the bill and makes the connection.

He shouts to the closed door...

Not breaking his stride, Simon catches Marcus coming out the

restroom.

Seething, Marcus joins Simon in line for a cab. A white

Ferrari pulls up to the curb beside them. The FERRARI MAN

tosses the keys at Marcus, who can't help but catch them.

He slips Marcus a five as he rushes into the casino. A beat.

Simon is cracking up. As we REVERSE, we see the valets are

wearing the same yellow sportcoat as Marcus.

Top off, wind whipping. Marcus downshifts, letting the engine

RACE as he passes another sports car. The STEREO is blasting.

Pale and dazed, Simon tries to light a cigarette. It blows out

of his fingers. It was his last. He adjusts himself in his

seat, uncomfortable.

Marcus looks over to Simon, who is trying to get his breath.

Empty intersections, no traffic to speak of. Marcus is looking

for a cross-street. They're lost.

Simon goes through the glove compartment. Amid the condoms and

parking tickets, he finds one.

He throws it out. He tries to shut the compartment, but it's

caught on something. He reaches in...

Marcus looks over. Simon gently pulls out a 9mm Baretta.

Fascinated, he turns it over in his hands. Marcus tries to

keep an eye on the road.

Simon aims the other way, out the window. As they drive

through an intersection, they pass a car full of LOCALS.

Simon throws the gun to the floor. Marcus flinches, expecting

it to go off. It doesn't. He checks the rear-view mirror. No

trouble. Simon picks up the gun again.

He starts pulling and pushing on it, trying to get the clip

out. He's not going to stop until he does it or shoots himself

trying.

Marcus removes the clip, hands it over. Simon counts the

bullets.

At a pull-up payphone, Marcus is looking through the map in the

phone book. Simon is still fondling the gun.

He tears a page out of the phone book.

A beat. Giving up...

Tiny lies on the bed, watching a bad hotel porno. Singh comes

out of the bathroom, pale and shivering.

KNOCKING at the adjoining room door. They try to ignore it,

but it's relentless. Finally, Tiny answers it.

It's the same boy.

He pushes past the kid...

The mirror image of their room. The same porno plays on the

TV. Kleenexes on the bed.

Tiny rummages through the open suitcases, finally finding a

bottle of Pepto-Bismol. He cracks the seal and drinks half of

it on the spot.

Tiny goes back into the other room, pulling the door shut.

Sodium vapor lights BUZZ overhead. Simon adjusts something in

his coat while Marcus locks the Ferrari.

APPROACHING THE ENTRANCE...

At the door, Marcus stops Simon before he goes in.

Pitch black except for tiny Christmas lights. To Simon's left,

a skanky MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE plays video poker. At the bar,

Marcus SHOUTS to the BARTENDER -- the MUSIC is deafening.

Out of the shadows, two dancers approach. They split up,

blonde HOLLY taking Simon, while brunette NOELLE heads for

Marcus.

Holly offers Simon a hand, they shake. She leans close to talk

into his ear. He smiles.

Noelle taps Marcus on the shoulder, ducks to the other side

playfully. Takes a sip of his drink.

Simon points to Marcus. Holly nods, feeling the fabric of his

shirt.

Noelle laughs at something Marcus said.

Holly measures her hand against Simon's, rubs it against her

neck. He is staring at her magnificent breasts.

At Noelle's urging, Marcus flexes his bicep. Noelle flutters.

We come in CLOSE as Holly leans over to say something. Simon

speaks first...

A curtain at the end, blue light overhead. Holly leads the way

with a bottle of champagne. Noelle follows with glasses.

Behind them, the guys.

Marcus gives Simon a look. Simon shrugs it off.

The curtain parts, letting the women through. From the

darkened space beyond, a giant BOUNCER steps out -- massive

even compared to Marcus. He's sucking on a lollipop.

Marcus looks to Simon, who hands over the gold card. Vic Jr.

reads them the boilerplate...

He pulls back the curtain.

A mirrored ball spins overhead, stars racing across the black

paneling. Holly nudges Simon into his chair. He and Marcus

sit back to back.

As the champage POPS, we move into a series of overlapping

shots:

Noelle licks the foam from Holly's fingers.

Holly rubs the bottle against herself, pours.

Noelle and Holly dance together, a tinsel ribbon around them.

Simon adjusts himself in the crotch.

Noelle lights a cigar for Marcus as Holly dances alone.

Holly lifts her miniskirt to reveal a g-string.

Simon cranes his neck back, banging heads with Marcus.

Noelle takes a puff off the cigar.

Holly straddles Simon, rubs against him. He shudders. His

hands start to rise. She gently pushes them back down.

Marcus whispers something to Noelle.

Noelle comes up behind Holly, moving with her as she rubs

against Simon. Marcus turns to watch.

Enraptured, Simon watches the four-armed woman on top of him.

His fingers start to twitch.

Noelle kisses the edge of Holly's neck.

Simon's hands rise, reach...

Holly MOANS...

And suddenly...

Simon grabs Noelle's ass.

It's Heaven.

Noelle and Holly both get off him. Holly kicks his leg. From

behind the curtain, Vic Jr. charges in. He heads straight for

Marcus.

Simon tumbles off his chair, scrambling.

He kicks Simon in the ass.

He kicks Simon again. Holly and Noelle stand in the corner.

This has happened a hundred times.

Vic Jr. kicks Simon again.

Vic Jr. turns on Marcus. A beat. He shoves him, hard.

Vic Jr. WHACKS Marcus, an old-fashioned bitch slap. A beat.

Marcus tries to keep the rage down. Feels his nose bleeding.

He backs away, but Vic Jr. keeps coming. Suddenly...

A GUNSHOT.

SCREAMS.

For a beat, no one's sure what happened. We look around to

Marcus. Vic Jr. Holly. Noelle. Then finally Simon.

He just fired. The gun is steady in his hand.

Marcus checks his shirt. A spray of blood.

Vic Jr. checks his arm. It's bleeding.

We HOLD for a moment, the mirrored ball still spinning

overhead.

They do. Marcus holds his place.

Blood is squirting out of Vic Jr.'s arm. He holds it,

dumbfounded.

A fire escape door. Simon motions for Marcus to come. Pushing

the bar, no alarm sounds. They back out, into the night. The

door swings shut.

A beat.

Suddenly, an MAN charges in with a silver .45. He is Vic Sr.,

60, owner and proprietor. You don't fuck with Victor.

Victor KICKS the door open, ready to fire. The alley is clear.

The BARTENDER comes through the curtain.

The man races out. Victor looks at his son's arm. It's

bloody, but he'll live. Holly SHOUTS down the hallway.

The Ferrari SCRAPES as it takes the curb too fast.

From the alley, the Bartender chases after it, finally

stopping to squeeze off three SHOTS. None seem to hit. The

Ferrari tears down the street.

Taking a left, Marcus slows down a little. We're on an empty

street well away from the Crazy Horse. He dabs at his bloody

nose.

In the passenger seat, Simon looks at the gun in the hand. He

suddenly throws it out.

Marcus slams on the brakes.

Craning around, Simon looks for it in the street. Marcus backs

the car up. Suddenly, a phone RINGS. Lights flicker on the

car phone.

Marcus brakes again. The phone keeps RINGING.

Simon climbs out and starts looking, crouching to look under

cars.

In the Ferrari, Marcus sits back and kicks the phone with his

boot, over and over until it stops, dead.

For a moment, silence.

Then the car's ALARM starts going off.     Marcus SCREAMS with

frustration. He punches buttons on the     keychain, but nothing

will quiet it. He tries the key in the     ignition. It won't

turn over. Climbing out of the car, he     kicks it with all his

might.

Simon finds the gun, crawling under a truck to get it.

Using his jacket, Marcus starts frantically wiping off the

inside and outside of the Ferrari. Simon joins him. The whole

time, the alarm is still WAILING.

Satisfied, Marcus motions that they're done. He and Simon take

off running down the street.

A bent needle pierces two flaps of skin, drawing a line of

blood with the thread.

Victor ties another stitch in Vic Jr.'s arm. He's had practice

at this. In the background, the Bartender and Noelle are

watching. Victor's tirade is directed at all of them.

She shakes her head, crying.

Vic Jr. winces with pain.

Noelle hands him a towel to mop up the blood.

He finishes the last stitch, tying it off.

Holly looks in, holding a gold card. Victor motions, "well?"

She hands it over.

Noelle nods.

Noelle nods harder, crying again.

Pale and dehydrated, Tiny sits on the toilet. He HUMS the

theme to "I Dream of Jeannie."

Singh is propped up on one of the beds. He's just this side of

death. Toilet FLUSHING. Tiny comes out of the bathroom, takes

the other bed.

Tiny resumes HUMMING. After a few beats, Singh joins in with

the theme to "Bewitched." The melodies blend surprisingly

well. Just into the second chorus, the phone RINGS.

He hangs up.

In the passenger seat, Vic Jr. flips a cell phone shut. He was

working through the yellow pages.

Victor changes lanes. He SLAMS on the horn, SHOUTING at the

car that cut him off.

Climbing out of a cab, Marcus throws two bills at the DRIVER.

Simon is already running down the sidewalk.

Simon furiously pounds the elevator button. With a DING, doors

finally open. He and Marcus get on. The doors shut.

In the same shot, we WHIP BACK to look at the lobby, where

Victor and Vic Jr. have just entered. They walk calmly but

quickly.

Victor presses the `8' button. The mirrored doors close. Half

a beat later, they open again.

A PLEASANT RETIRED COUPLE get on. Press `4.' The doors don't

close. The Woman presses the `Door Open' button.

She sees her mistake. The doors finally close. In the

reflection, the Man looks back at Victor and Vic Jr. Smiles.

No answer. The doors open.

The Man steps out of the elevator, looking around.

She reaches for the panel. Victor grabs her hand. She GASPS,

startled. Without saying a word, he shoves her off the

elevator, BANGING on the door close button until it finally

responds.

Marcus and Simon burst in like a cyclone. Marcus grabs his

clothes out of the closet.

Simon tosses Singh his wallet, pockets the keys.

The panic is contagious. After a stunned beat, Tiny and Singh

start moving, putting on shoes and restuffing suitcases.

A KNOCK at the door. Everyone freezes. More KNOCKING.

Simon steps gingerly to the door, looks out the peephole.

HIS P.O.V.

A fleshy hand blocks the fisheye.

Victor and son smile at a COUPLE walking past. When they're

gone, a giant orange plumber's wrench drops down from Jr.'s

jacket sleeve.

Simon backs away from the door, freaking out. Marcus checks

the windows. They're eight stories above a parking lot.

Tiny knocks on the door to the adjoining room

The kids mutes the TV.

INTERCUT

Vic Jr. leans on him, shut up.                                               *

A look between all parties.

INT. APARTMENT - LATER

Sitting in the green chair, Simon makes an `X' on his bicep

with a marker. He feels for the bone.

Gaines and the Vics stand around him. In the background,

Claire is dubious and horrified.

Vic Jr. puts Todd's gun to the `X.' Gaines hands Simon a shirt

to mop up the blood.

On some sick level, he's really into this.

Vic Jr. gets ready to shoot. Everyone subtly backs away,

bracing for the gunshot. Three. Two. One.

But there's no bang.                                                         *

Everyone looks at Vic Jr. He pulls the gun away.                             *

Without even closing her register, she takes off her apron and

heads for the door.

