FADE IN:

ROLL CREDITS OVER:

EXT. GOLF COURSE - DAWN

VARIOUS EXTRA CLOSE-UPS of this luxurious patchwork of

brilliant greens:

A POLISHED BRASS SPRINKLER HEAD

pops up from the ground and begins to water the already dew-

soaked lawn.

FLEET OF DUCKLINGS

No mother in sight, cruise through the thrushes.

GRAVEYARD OF GOLF BALLS, UNDERWATER

At the bottom of a water hazard.

PALM FRONDS

After a neat they sway, revealing the barren desert that

surrounds the artificial oasis. The sun already bakes the

air. We hear the opening guitar strains of the Kim Deal-Kurt

Cobain suet of "WHAT I DID FOR LOVE," as we CRANE DOWN the

palms to

A BRAND-NEW TITLEIST 3 BALL.

Just on the edge of the rough. A pair of yellow trousers

moves in. An iron confidently addresses the ball, and chips

it out. The trousers walk out after it.

HANDS

Digging dirt out of the grooves of the iron's face with a

golf tee, while on the way to the green. Both hands are

gloved, instead of one, and the gloves are black.

YELLOW TROUSERS

In a squat over the ball, sizing up the curvy, fifty-foot

journey to the hole. The figure positions himself and the

putter above the ball, then pops the ball lightly. The ball

rolls and bobs with purpose toward the hole, dodging hazards

and finding lanes, until it finally falls off of the green

and into the hole.

THE GLOVED HAND

Sets the ball on the next tee. The figure moves to a leather

golf bag. The hands pull the wipe rag off of the top of the

bag and drop it on the ground, reach into the bag, drawing

out a compact SNIPER RIFLE, affixed with a long silencer.

The figure drops one knee down onto the rag, the other foot

firmly setting its spikes. We move the figure to see the

face of the sniper, concentrating down the scope in his half-

squat. He is MARTIN BLANK.

We SWING AROUND behind his head to look down the barrel with

him. Four-hundred yards away, on another part of the course,

another green is barely visible through groves of trees and

rough. Three miniscule, SILVER-HAIRED FIGURES come into view.

One of them, in a RED SWEATER sets up for first putt. He

could be an investment banker, or an arms trader.

MARTIN'S ARM

Flinches, and a low THUNK reports from the rifle. A second

later in the distance, the

RED SWEATER'S HEAD

Seems to vanish from his shoulders into a crimson mist. His

body crumples to the green.

MARTIN

Returns the rifle to the bag, pulls out a driver, moves to

the tee and whacks the ball. He watches its path and whispers

absently...

INT. CLUB HOUSE PATIO - LATER

The outdoor post-golf luncheon area of an elite Texas golf

club. Martin sits in on the fringes of a conversation between

a group of executive types. CLUB MEMBER #1 has a Buddha-like

peace in his eyes through the philosophical talk.

Club Member #1 turns to Martin.

Club Member #1 pulls a laminated card from his wallet and

hands it over to Martin. In the distance, sirens begin to

wail.

INSERT - WALLET-SIZE P.P.P. CARD

A pizza-shaped diagram showing six "sections".

Sirens are getting louder, closer to the club.

EXT. COUNTRY CLUB - DAY

The source of the sirens are almost upon us. Martin walks

toward his rented Town Car as the VALET pulls it up. He meets

the Valet by the trunk, where he trades tip for keys.

LAMINATED CARD

As it lays on the asphalt. The wheel of a police car rolls

to a stop on it.

INT. AIRLINER - DAY

Martin sits in a first class seat, the tray table flipped

down. On the left side of the tray is a stack of magazines

of all kinds - Sports Illustrated, Mademoiselle, Wired,

Rolling Stone, National Review, Spin, National Geographic,

and on. He draws one off the top, and flips through it,

impassively taking in images and reading nothing. When he is

done with one, he discards it into the empty seat next to

him and draws another-- Martin's way of instantly and

massively uploading the world around him:

Toothless hockey player in triumph, Sony product parade,

crouched starving child with vulture in the background,

supermodel in suede, Tic Tacs, living former Presidents, arm

in arm, smiling, etc.

INT. HIRED CAR, NEW YORK - DAY

The livery weaves out of the arrival lanes at Kennedy airport.

Martin reclines in the back seat, a conversation having

already begun.

INT. CAR - MANHATTAN STREETS - LATER

The car cuts through the upper east side. Martin and the

Driver exchange looks through the rear-view mirror.

The Driver pauses for dramatic emphasis

No reaction from Martin.

INT. HOTEL ROOM, NEW YORK CITY - DAY

A sedate and well-appointed four-star suite on the Upper

East Side. Martin stands in front of one of the open windows

watching the canopied entrance of an elegant high-rise across

the street. He lifts an eye rinse cup to his eye and tilts

it back. A cellular phone RINGS, interrupting him. He moves

to the desk and draws one of three phones from his briefcase,

depresses a scrambler module, flips it open, and listens for

a moment.

Martin hangs up. Picks up another phone and dials. As he

waits for an answer, he goes to a Fed Ex blueprint tube lying

on the bed.

He breaks the shipping seal and pulls out a series of finished

metal parts including a long thin barrel, a scope, and a

silencer.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - SAME

Martin stands in front of the window, phone in one hand, the

scope in the other. Next to him, the assembled rifle rests

across the arm of a chair.

He glances over to a second window to his left, which offers

a view further down the street. He goes to it. He raises the

scope and sees

MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE- WINDOW #2

A few blocks down, small even through the high-powered scope,

is your average BICYCLE MESSENGER dressed in lycra racing

gear, weaving through traffic toward us. Slung low across

his right hip is a black canvas bag. The Messenger's hand is

hidden in it. The other phone begins to RING.

He sets down the phone and answers the other, still watching

the messenger.

Martin drops the phone and moves away from Window #2 to the

rifle. He mounts the scope and he looks out Window #1 at the

high-rise.

MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE - WINDOW #1

Of a DOORMAN opening the door for a group of five men in

suits. Four BODYGUARDS form a perimeter around the fifth

man, a mall, avuncular figure in his forties dressed in

Saville Row finery.

MARTIN

Takes a step back into the shadows of the room, and raises

the rifle toward Window #2.

MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE - WINDOW #2

of an empty street. The bicycle messenger flashes past.

MARTIN

concentrating, tracks the path of the Messenger, leading him

left to right across the blind spot of the hotel room wall

between Window #2 and Window #1.

STREET

the bicycle Messenger bears down on the group of men, drawing

a Mac-10 submachine gun from his bag. The group see him--

just as Martin's sniper FIRE explodes the Messenger's chest.

Two of the Bodyguards collapse onto their boss. The other

two open fire on the Messenger as he wipes out horribly into

a parked car in front of them.

MARTIN

withdraws from the window, and picks up the phone again and

begins to break down the rifle.

Martin listens patiently as he works.

EXT. STREET - SAME - INTERCUT

DOORMAN'S HANDS

unbuttoning his double-breasted long coat.

MARTIN

just finishes packing.

STREET

The two bodyguards kick at the Messenger's body. The other

two begin to move off of their boss, who rises cowering. The

Doorman stands behind it all, unbuttoning his coat.

DOORMAN

a tall, dark, sharp-featured man in his forties, wearing a

handlebar moustache. He moves toward the group of men as he

flips open his coat back over two huge chrome .44 Magnum

Charthouse Bulldog revolvers and OPENS FIRE on them.

MARTIN

is closing his bag when he hears the gun-thunder.

Martin drops the phone, grabs his scope, and spins to the

window.

MARTIN'S P.O.V./SCOPE

of the Doorman kicking through the pile of dead bodyguards.

He gets to the man at the bottom-- their boss. The Doorman

FIRES both guns.

MARTIN

reacts, surprised to see a second shooter. He pulls himself

from the window, puts away his scope, and accelerates his

exit.

HIGH-RISE FOYER

Outside, we see the doorman drop both guns on the pile of

bodies. He walks back toward us through the glass doors and

makes his way through the building toward the service exit.

He sheds his uniform and stuffs it into a plastic bag.

MARTIN

his two parcels in hand, exits out the side door of the hotel

and walks down the street.

DOORMAN

now wearing rich man's sweats, hops off the loading dock,

walks to a Lincoln Town Car, and drives off.

INT. MARTIN'S AND GROCERS CARS - DAY

Martin rolls down FDR Drive in a Lincoln Town Car once again

on the cellular.

Martin notices another Town Car appears in the next lane. We

recognize the Doorman behind the wheel, phone in hand. He is

GROCER.

Grocer ignores this.

Martin hangs up and pulls away.

INT. AIRLINER - DAY

Martin sits in first class, wiping his face and hands with

an airline hot towel. He folds the wet cloth and once again

speeds through the images from a thick stack of magazines.

He looks up as he hears PILOT V.O.  It's seventy-six degrees

and partly cloudy in Chicago this afternoon...

INT. APARTMENT, CHICAGO - NIGHT

Martin walks into a sparsely furnished apartment. He wearily

drops his carry-on bag and briefcase in the hall.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Martin sits on a futon couch watching MTV with no sound. On

the coffee table in front of him is a phalanx of vitamin

bottles. Martin takes some capsules from each and washes

them down with a reddish-orange beverage.

INT. LIVING ROOM - LATER

Martin lies on his back on the hardwood floor. His eyes are

closed and he wears a set of headphones as he absently taps

his chest.

After a moment, his eyes open, alerted. His head turns to

the side, and his hands lightly cup the headphones.

CLOSE-UP: WIRE

from the headphones as it winds to a small metal box, with

one unmarked switch and one amber light- definitely not a

walkman. The wire continues out of the other side of the

box, across the floor, connecting to a suction cup stuck to

the floor.

MARTIN - A MINUTE LATER

draws a pre-cut section of the floor, the width of a pencil

and twice as long, by a string.

VIDEO MONITOR - A MINUTE LATER

The greenish Starlight (night vision) image of a young, HUSKY

MAN sleeping on his back, as seen from above. A fine thread

snakes from behind CAMERA to just above the man's slack mouth.

We PULL BACK to reveal a Sony Watchman that holds the IMAGE.

KEEP PULLING to reveal Martin watching it as he maneuvers

the thread down past the fiber-optic cable through the hole

in the floor.

MARTIN - A MINUTE LATER

concentrates as he applies three drops of blue liquid on the

thread. As the drops run down along the thread through the

floor, his attention shifts to the

VIDEO MONITOR

The drops, huge in the foreground, become smaller as they

make their way down the line toward the sleeping man.

MARTIN

adjusts the thread minutely with one hand, and lowers the

fiber-optic cable with the other.

VIDEO MONITOR

The face begins to fill the screen as the fiber-optic follows

the drops toward it. Suddenly, the man snorts and turns his

face...

A DROP FALLS

It misses the man's mouth and hit's his cheek.

VIDEO MONITOR

The man's eyes snap open in terror as he looks directly into

CAMERA. His image falls away as the fiber-optic is jerked

back up through the hole in the floor.

MARTIN

stuffs the apparati into an open duffel bag, and flies out

of frame.

INT. HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

A BODYGUARD sits outside an apartment door. A muffled but

dire scream is heard from within and he is on his feet, gun

in hand. An exit door in the hallway slams open revealing

Martin, his gun already pointed at the Bodyguard. The

Bodyguard levels his at Martin.

The Bodyguard hesitates just long enough to get double-tapped

through the head.

Martin moves to the dead Bodyguard, and locates a retractable

key chain on his belt. He unreels the ring of keys and opens

the door. He lets the keys retract back to the belt and drags

him into the apartment.

INT. HUSKY MAN'S APARTMENT - SECONDS LATER

Martin moves silently down the hall in a crouch. He comes to

the bedroom and slips across the threshold.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Martin crouches down outside the bedroom door. He points the

gun at the door, and reaching up turns the knob. As the door

opens, the Husky Man FIRES wildly over Martin's head. Martin

returns with one shot to the hut which sits the man down on

the floor.

Martin kicks the gun away from the fallen man, and raises

his barrel to the man's forehead.

Martin cocks the gun....

EXT. EAST-WEST HOLDING COMPANY, LOS ANGELES - DAY

The perpetual sun shines down on a small lot of pre-fab office

bungalows.

INT. BLANK HOLDING COMPANY

A small suite of dry-walled offices.

EAST-WEST HOLDING COMPANY

is stenciled on glass doors behind Martin who stands in front

of a young woman reading from some kind of invitation. She

is MARCELLA MAYES.

Marcella holds up the mauve envelope and smiles slyly. For

the first time, Martin looks scared.

Martin begins to walk past her into his office, but Marcella

stops him.

Marcella looks concerned.

She hands him a piece of paper. He scans it.

Martin looks at her wearily. He puts it into the paper

shredder at the side of her desk.

She raises a thick brown dossier from the top of her desk

and puts it down again. Martin moves through a door to his

private office.

MARTIN'S OFFICE

Martin goes into his office and sits at his desk. On the

walls are a couple of boring prints of tallships. A bookshelf

holds trappings of a loose attempt at a cover-- a few shipping

manifests, sealane tables, and other specialized reference

books on import/export. He sits and stares.

NEW ANGLE

Time has passed, and Martin still sits at his desk massaging

his gums with a rubber-tipped dental pointer.

C.U. MARTIN'S TEETH

The dental tool jumps across the gaps between his teeth like

a hummingbird.

MARTIN

pulls back his jacket lapel and fits the utensil into a pocket

protector that is also home to a toothbrush, emery board,

tweezers, and comb. He stands and walks out of his office.

FOYER

Martin moves toward the door. As he passes Marcella she hands

him the mauve envelope and a travel portfolio.

Martin stops short as he reaches the threshold. He holds up

the envelope, and stares a dagger through it. On his way

out, over his shoulder...

INT. DR. OATMAN'S OFFICE - DAY

Martin slouches on a leather couch. He holds the mauve

envelope, now open.

DR. OATMAN sits in the window. He is Kris Kringle-esque, and

wears a sheepskin vest, rough-hewn shirt, faded Levis, and

old Frye boots. Oatman nods with the suave understanding of

a man happy to collect fifty thousand in fees before asking

a tough question.

CLOSE-UP - MARTIN

MARTIN'S P.O.V. - FROM ABOVE

Of a crowded gymnasium. The alumni below stops what they are

doing and look up at Martin, DRAWING GUNS OF ALL SHAPES AND

SIZES AND OPEN FIRE ON MARTIN. THE UNITED FORCE INSTANTLY

DISINTEGRATES, AND ALL 400 PEOPLE TURN THEIR GUNS ON EACH

OTHER. A BLOODBATH ENSUES. ONE ALUMNI SHOOTS HER OWN HEAD

OFF, ANOTHER MOWS DOWN THE BAR, ETC.

MARTIN AND OATMAN

Oatman twitches nervously, almost spilling his coffee.

Beat.

INT. CHURCH -

SERIES OF QUICK SHOTS:

MARTIN

From the back of the darkened empty church, we see him mount

the altar.  A priest in fact.

MARTIN'S HANDS

open the gilded doors to reveal the chalice. He removes it,

squirts a clear liquid into the cup, and swishes it out. He

returns the chalice to the cabinet.

MARTIN

Sits in the back pew of the church, now crowded for Mann. He

watches the PRIEST lift the chalice into the air, murmur a

prayer, and drink from it. The Priest collapses behind the

altar.

C.U. OF ALTAR CARPET

The chalice bounces free from the Priest's hand as it hits

the ground.

INT. OATMAN'S OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Oatman's glad the session's just about over.

INT. CONDO - NIGHT

Very dark. No pictures or plants. Almost no furniture, and

what he does have is black. The only sign of life is a CAT.

The cat watches on as Martin sorts through a cardboard box,

finally coming to a photo album.

INSERT-ALBUM

A teen-aged Martin Blank: shy boy with a nervous smile. He

poses with his mother, an older woman with a kind smile...

but her eyes are dark; aged by a life of work and worry. On

the opposing page is a gilt funeral announcement that reads:

"IN LOVING MEMORY... VISTOR ALLEN BLANK...."

MARTIN

turns the page.

INSERT-PHOTO ALBUM

A photograph of a tall, thin girl: a bright smile from within

a bulky winter coat. A girl he's always wondered about: DEBI

NEWBERRY. Handwritten on the photo in girlish loops: "Would

you rather...?!"

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Martin pulls himself away from the album and the cat follows

him, moaning hungrily--

Martin opens a restaurant-style refrigerator. It holds various

bottles of vitamins, spirulina, wheatgrass, digestible

hydrogen peroxide, fluoride treatment, oxygenated mouth rinse,

and thirty cans of CATFOOD.

He opens a can for the cat and a bottle for himself. While

the cat eats, he returns to the cardboard box. Finds a

YEARBOOK. Flips it open....

INSERT-YEARBOOK

A picture of a senior class "Blues Brothers" party: a group

of teens mug to the camera in Blues Brothers get-ups.

Sprinters race for a finish line, their chests stretching

for the tape.

DEBI NEWBERY'S SENIOR PICTURE

A more mature version of the girl in the album. Her name

appears under his picture...

INT. GROCER'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

Track light fills the gourmet-rustic kitchen. GROCER stands,

wearing a burgundy Fila sweat suit, pushing beets into a

vegetable juicer. Next to the juicer are piles of celery and

carrots, as well. A low-key BLIP is heard from another room.

Grocer tops off the glass and takes it out of the kitchen.

INT. GROCER'S GREAT ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Grocer enters the main room of the villa-style A-frame. He

moves to an antique oak desk and sits in front of a COMPUTER.

ON-SCREEN GRAPHICS

OK is clicked.

Grocer leans back in his chair and sips the juice. After a

moment, the FAX machine on the desk rattles. The computer

beeps.

Grocer hits the return button after taking in the number. A

graphic appears:

Grocer's FAX begins to moan and chatter. Grocer raises his

juice glass to the computer in a lazy toast.

INT. PLANE - NIGHT

Martin reclines in first class, soaring toward the Midwest

on the red-eye. He has already scanned his magazines and

they are piled in the empty seat next to him. He sets aside

a Powerbar. Martin reads Kill Without Joy. After a moment,

he sets the book down and takes up Iron John.

INT. DETROIT AIRPORT TERMINAL - EARLY MORNING

At the edge of the airport bar sits LARDNER and MCCULLERS,

two Government Spooks, agency unknown. They are both in

blazers, no ties, early thirties, and they watch the passing

crowd.

In the background, Martin passes by them as he walks down

the hall. Without directly regarding him, the two stand,

drop some cash on the bar, and begin to leave.

Lardner can neither confirm nor deny this.

They exit.

EXT. EXIT RAMP, DETROIT AIRPORT - MORNING

INSIDE MARTIN'S CAR

Martin, in a black Lincoln Town Car, veers off of the airport

artery and on to a turnpike. The radio broadcasts the news.

MARTIN'S CAR

blows past CAMERA and on down the road. After a beat, a mid-

eighties Ford Country Squire station wagon follows, occupied

by two figures.

INSIDE THE COUNTRY SQUIRE

are Lardner and McCullers. They listen to the same broadcast.

MARTIN

flips through the dial, pausing on Rush Limbaugh who waxes

fascistically.

...and then turns the dial again and cuts in on "Armageddon

Time," slow reggae vibe by The Clash.

EXT. HIGHWAY-

Martin drives down the roadway... headlong into his past.

Dig it...

INT. MARTIN'S CAR

Martin turns up the volume as he reacts to a familiar

voice....

CLOSE-UP - A FULL, FEMALE MOUTH

lit only by dime slivers of sunlight, in front of a

microphone. Stray, gossamer strands of hair hanging in her

face move in front of her mouth as she speaks....

MARTIN

looking somewhere far away, beyond what is before him in the

windshield...

THE DEEJAY'S HANDS

as they distractedly toy with the wire at the base of the

mic.

MARTIN

still rapt, makes a sharp turn into a shopping district.

HER MOUTH

MARTIN

slows on a quaint street of cute shops. He creeps up to a

storefront on hid right and stops, staring through the

passenger window....

DEBI NEWBERRY

the female deejay. She sits slumped in a well-worn executive

chair, her back to the studio console and the picture window

behind it that opens to the street....

she swivels in the chair to face the street....

DEBI'S P.O.V.

of Martin's Town Car outside, Martin silhouetted in shadow.

DEBI

Her brow furrowed as she peers at the car, something summoned

by the dark figure. Her words falter almost imperceptibly.

MARTIN

Shaken from his trance by her stare, pulls back into the

street and disappears....

INT. MARTIN'S CAR - MORNING

Martin drives, listening to the radio. He turns the corner

with an expectant look on his face. Suddenly his face drops

as he slows and pulls over....

MARTIN'S P.O.V. - 7-11 STORE

Martin looks left of the store, then right, behind him, then

back at the store. Bewildered, he gets out of the car.

WIDE SHOT

of Martin as he walks with purpose. He halts in the middle

of the lot. He puts his hands on his hips, stares, then moves

in... We stay wide as he enters the store and addresses the

clerk inside.

CARL, the store clerk tries to get a grip on this question.

Martin's head pans the room, processing.

EXT. 7-11 PAYPHONE - MORNING

Martin continues to gaze at the structure as if it's a lunar

landscape.

Martin hangs up. He watches one-stop shoppers come and go.

INT. NURSING HOME - DAY

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

of a NURSE leading him down a drab, antiseptic hallway. She

banks into the sunlit room where a wispy woman in her late

fifties sits expectantly on the edge of the bed clutching

her purse in one hand, a filterless Pall-Mall in the other,

a light coat on. This is MARY BLANK. She suffers from

Alzheimer's or something just as debilitating.

The nurse gently eases Mary up. Martin hugs Mary stiffly and

pats her shoulders. Mary takes hold of Martin's arm. They

start out of the room.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

They walk past a school-yard park fitted with a set of swings,

baseball diamonds, and a small grove of trees. She smokes

and hacks.

Mary coughs horribly.

Martin decides to change the subject.

Mary leans in close, smiling.

EXT. NURSING HOME - DAY

As they head toward Martin's car, Mary stops and points to

it.

A nurse approaches with a wheelchair.

Together, Martin and the nurse help Mary into it. Mary gazes

at Martin, taking him in.

Martin bends down and kisses her on the cheek. The nurse

spins the chair around and heads toward the building. He is

somewhat fatigued from the experience, but he tries once

more to connect.

The nurse stops and turns Mary around to face him. Mary looks

up at Martin and brightens. She starts to sing out like Ethel

Merman, arms out Broadway style.

Mary stops short, and squints at Martin.

EXT. GRAVEYARD ROAD - DAY

Martin stops the car and looks out the window at the sea of

headstones. He jerks his hand in a stiff wave...

He drives off.

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - DAY

The room features a big square bed, dresser and television.

Martin enters, kicks a leather bag under the bed, and grabs

the steel-sided briefcase.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

Lardner and McCullers are staked out along the main strip of

town. Lardner snores, face pressed up against the passenger

window. McCullers lays back in his seat, a to-go cup in his

lap. He taps the cup with one finger as he absently sings

his favorite Bob Seeger song to himself...

McCullers catches of Martin's Town Car coming down the street.

He nudges Lardner, and points.

LARDNER AND MCCULLERS P.O.V.

of Martin pulling into a space on the street outside the

radio station. He gets out, looking nervous.

INT. RADIO STATION - DAY

Debi flips on the "ON-AIR" switch and prepares to speak into

the microphone. Martin walks in. Debi sees him. They stare

at each other. The song ends. Dead air. After a moment...

Debi turns to turntable B and finds it empty. She turns back

to turntable A and lets the record roll on.

Debi swivels around to face Martin.

After a long pause....

Debi says nothing, just stares at him, in shock.

Debi slowly grooves into irony, her best defense.

Their eyes lock on each other...

The request line buzzes.

Beat. Debi makes the move.

Beat.

They run out of words, the moment too big for small talk.

Martin gets the fear, breaks it off.

Martin leaves Debi sitting alone, in disbelief.

EXT. RADIO STATION - DAY

Martin steps out of the storefront station along the

fashionable Grosse Pointe shopping district. He stops in the

middle of the street with a strained look on his face.

INT. LARDNER & MCCULLERS' COUNTRY SQUIRE - SAME

LARDNER & MCCULLERS' P.O.V.

of Martin standing in the street.

LARDNER AND MCCULLERS

They frown, wondering at Martin's next move.

INT. DEEJAY BOOTH -

Debi lost in thought, still. After a moment, she sits upright

and flips the "ON-AIR" switch.

EXT. STREET -

Martin stops in his tracks. His face softens, then becomes

determined. He turns and walks back toward the station.

INT. DEEJAY BOOTH -

Debi broadcasting...

DEBI'S P.O.V.

of Martin walking back into the station.

Martin comes into the booth. The temperature rises as they

square off.

INT. COUNTRY SQUIRE -

McCullers is not to be outdone.

INT. DEEJAY BOOTH

Martin and Debi locked in a passionate embrace. They break

away.

Martin obeys. Debi clandestinely flips the "ON-AIR" switch

as she drops into her chair. The "ON-AIR" light bar goes on

above and behind Martin. Unbeknownst to him their conversation

is put out over the airwaves.

Martin says nothing.

A beat as Martin realizes he's been had. He seems about to

bolt.

Debi jabs a phone line on the console.

Martin deflates.

Stabs another line.

Martin looks up, humiliated.

She turns to him and shrugs apologetically.

Martin has his answer.

EXT. RADIO STATION - DAY

Martin leaves the station, alone and beaten down.

He scans the main strip.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

A MAN walks down the street. He is FELIX, a bookish,

forgettable man in his forties, wearing Le Coq Sportif sweats

and shoes. He looks as if he has a dark cloud over his head.

Martin's seen him somewhere, and doesn't like what he

remembers. Martin's POV TRACKS him.

FELIX'S P.O.V.

As he walks down the street, he spots the Country Squire,

and eyes Lardner and McCullers in the front seat.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

follows Felix's eyes to Lardner and McCullers and catches

their look. Their eyes lock, neither wanting to betray that

they've made each other. They all do a pretty good job. His

P.O.V. swings to a square-jawed, hale fellow wearing dark

sunglasses who is approaching directly and only a few feet

away. The man is going for something in his breast pocket...

Reaches into his own jacket, most likely for a gun....

THE MAN

pulls out a glasses case, and takes off his shades-- He is

PAUL SWIDERSKI.

MARTIN AND PAUL

Martin relaxes.

No trace of recognition on Martin's face.

They shake. Martin looks him up and down, astonished at the

respectable veneer of his old burn-out friend.

INT. PAUL'S BMW - DAY

Martin and Paul rive through Grosse Pointe, Michigan: Wide

streets lined with huge, shady oaks. Castle-like homes on

golf-course green lawns. A comfortable, Midwestern Beverly

Hills. They are cruising their old haunts, Paul smoking a

joint.

Martin looks out the window, breathing in the past.

Paul offers Martin the joint. He declines.

Martin regards Paul archly.

Beat.

EXT. FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT HOUSE - DAY

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

of a lovely YOUNG COUPLE on the front porch of a mid-sized

Wright home... Perhaps that could be him if things were

different, but for now it feels like along shot. Paul is

hawking the house to them out of earshot.

MARTIN AND THE GUARD

standing in the driveway.

The woman turns at Martin and smiles. Martin smiles back.

Paul walks the happy couple down the steps.

Paul looks at Martin and the Guard, inviting them into the

sell.

All look to Martin....

All are confused. Martin thumbs to the guard.

Paul looks at his shoes and rolls his shoulders.

EXT. FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT HOUSE

Lardner and McCullers sit in the wagon, watching the house

in the distance.

INT. PAUL'S BMW - LATER

Martin and Paul cut through a particularly charming

neighborhood.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

A sprawling gingerbread mansion rises into view. A long and

winding driveway cuts through thickly wooded property to the

house.

C.U. OF MARTIN

Martin's not listening. His eyes track the house out the

window.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

of the mansion.

They roll slowly by Debi's house.

They drive in silence for a beat. Paul suddenly swerves to

the shoulder, jams the brake, and turns on Martin.

Paul, satisfied, gets back on the road.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Paul makes a turn. They approach a large car dealership. The

sign above it says

Paul slows outside the lot. BOB DESTEPHANO-- a big, angry-

looking man in an expensive suit-- stands in the lot, puffing

up amidst his stable of expensive cars.

Bob turns his back on them and begins to walk away.

EXT. RADIO STATION - NIGHT

Martin climbs out of Paul's car and begins to walk toward

his own. Paul calls after him.

Martin nods him off. Paul pulls away.

MARTIN

stands across the street from the radio station, looking at

Debi in the window... Martin draws a thin rifle scope from

his back pocket, and lifts it to his eye...

MARTIN'S P.O.V. - SCOPE

of Debi, in the crosshairs, bored, tapping a pencil to the

beat of an unheard song.

MARTIN

dejected. He puts the scope away and gets in his car.

INT. 7-11 - NIGHT

Martin walks into the store, looking around once again at

his old home. To the left of the door, a typical suburban

teenage SKATEBOARDER is lost in the "Mortal Combat" video

game and something too loud from his walkman. Carl, still

working the double, nods to Martin.

Martin moves up one aisle to the gum rack. He picks out a

pack of Beaman's and unwraps a stick as he heads to the

counter. On the way, he makes a black Town Car pulling into

a spot next to his own. He immediately changes course, and

bee-lines for a rear aisle where he ducks down...

FELIX

Comes through the door, drawing a Mac-10 for each hand.

MARTIN

grabs the gum out of his mouth and sticks it onto the bottom

of the Glock .9mm he has produced from somewhere in his suit.

CARL

grabs the cash drawer, sets it on the counter, and puts his

hands up.

THE SKATEBOARDER

Plays on.

FELIX AND CARL

Felix shoots CARL DEAD on his way toward

MARTIN

Bolts up the cooler aisle. Bursts of FIRE follow him, taking

out each freezer door behind him.

MARTIN AND FELIX

EXCHANGE FIRE John Woo-style between the aisles of the cramped

store. Felix delivers a close-to-home burst as he jumps the

counter, sending Martin diving out of view.

MARTIN

pinned behind the Slurpee machine, pauses to reload his now

two Glock nines. Martin steals a glance to get a bead on

Felix and is met with a salvo that rocks the Slurpee machine,

spattering him with several flavors... and that's all he can

take. Martin comes up BLASTING with both guns, but all that's

left of Felix is swinging doors and squealing tires.

Martin moves to the cashier island, low to the ground.

THE SKATEBOARDER

Twitches and jerks, still absorbed in his game and oblivious

to the surrounding carnage.

CASHIER ISLAND

Martin crawls through the waist-level swinging door and moves

to Carl.

CARL

is really dead. Martin rolls him over to check it out and

finds

A BOMB

under the corpse.

MARTIN

Flips the corpse back on top of the device and leaps the

counter toward the doors. He grabs the shoulder or the

Skateboarder, who shrugs him off, annoyed--

The video game screen explodes. Shot full of Martin's bullets.

The Skateboarder reacts backward and Martin jerks him out of

the double doors.

EXT. 7-11 - CONTINUOUS

The Skateboarder is running like crazy, and Martin's car is

peeling out in reverse as the 7-11 is blown to hell.

INT. MARTIN'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Martin's hair is matted with Slurpee as he tries to drive

and cool out. He sees his do in the mirror, pulls out a comb

and starts to comb it back into a slick Pat Riley style.

EXT. RADIO STATION - NIGHT

Martin walks in, not looking half bad, considering. Debi

looks up from some reading. "Naive Melody" by the Talking

Heads plays in the studio.

Beat.

Beat as Debi considers. She spins her seat to face him.

Beat.

The question is open.

EXT. JOSHUA TREE CAMPSITE - NIGHT

Under a crisp and starry night, a man and a woman sit around

a campfire. As we MOVE CLOSER we see that the woman is

Marcella reading, "Women Who Run With Wolves."  She tends to

s'mores on the campfire, assembles one, and hands it to MONTY,

her young outdoorsman boyfriend. Monty is perched on a small

boulder, engaged in a Tai-Chi-like ritual, wearing Patagonia's

finest. There is a path of crystals leading from the fire to

the boulder. In the background is a tent and a Nissan

Pathfinder. Monty's watch goes off.

Marcella gets up.

She tousles Monty's hair on the way to the truck.

INT. TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Marcella gets in. She shuts the door and dials the phone.

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - NIGHT - INTERCUT

Martin sits on the edge of the bed in a towel.

Marcella pauses, taking this in.

Marcella considers this.

Martin eyes the vent.

Beat. Marcella doesn't know what to make of this.

Martin hangs up. He moves up to the air vent, deciding to

get down to business. He pries it open, and withdraws his

briefcase, putting it down on the bed and propping it open.

He looks at the unopened dossier for a moment, flips it over

in his hands, and tosses it on the bed.

BRIEFCASE

We catch a glimpse of Martin's weapons. Martin picks up the

envelope and is about to tear the seal when

THE PHONE RINGS

Martin drops the envelope and lifts the receiver.

Beat.

She hangs up. Martin smiles and replaces the receiver. He

turns to the apparatus laid out on the bed.

GUNS, BULLETS, ETC.

What has been his life is beginning to look more like death

to him. He places the envelope in the case, then returns the

case to its hiding place.

EXT. DINER - DAY

Lardner and McCullers stake out Martin from the Country Squire

across the street.

They both laugh, as if at some great joke. Their laughter is

caught short by the sight of

LARDNER AND MCCULLERS' POV

INT. DINER - LATE MORNING

Martin sits in a window booth splitting nutrient caplets

into an apple juice and looking out the window.

GROCER

slides into the booth, across from Martin.

MARTIN AND GROCER

Martin draws a nasty little PPK pistol from his waist, and

levels it at Grocer under the table-- but Grocer is already

drawing his pistol down there, and there is an instant Mexican

breakfast stand-off.

A waitress approaches.

Martin and Grocer's eyes remain locked.

The waitress nods pertly and leaves.

Beat.

Grocer looks a little hurt.

Grocer loses it.

Long beat as Grocer gets a hold of himself.

INT. SUITE - BATHROOM - NIGHT

Martin sits at a desk, staring at the reunion card. He tosses

it aside, gets up, and moves in front of a mirror. He wears

a crisp black suit and practices his greeting smile...

EXT. DEBI'S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Martin makes his way up the walk leading to the front door,

holding a simple bouquet of flowers. He skips up the front

steps and finds the doorbell. After a moment, Debi answers.

She backs into the house, and he follows.

INT. NEWBERRY FOYER - CONTINUOUS

Martin follows Debi into the hall. Both are enjoying this

atavistic ritual.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

through a doorway leading into a den. All that's visible of

MR. NEWBERRY, Debi's father, is a pair of legs resting in a

Barcolounger.

DEBI

moves up the stairs and disappears.

MARTIN

looks at the legs, rolls his shoulders, and heads into the

den.

INT. DEN - CONTINUOUS

Mr. Newberry sits in the recliner reading a Tom Clancy novel.

He is a corporate Aspen-dude-ranch sort with a good head of

hair. He sighs, closes the book on his knee and looks up to

Martin.

Newberry lays down his book, and moves behind the wet bar.

Debi's footsteps are heard coming down the stairs.

Mr. Newberry watches Martin turn and walk out of the room.

EXT. DEBI'S HOUSE

Martin and Debi pull away from the curb.

INT. CAR - DUSK

Martin and Debi drive through that to Debi is town, and to

Martin is a widening pool of quicksand.

Martin's right hand shakes off of the wheel a bit. He grips

it tighter. Suddenly, Martin turns the wheel and pulls into

a gas station parking lot, halting next to a pay phone.

Debi nods, a little confused but going with it.

EXT. PAYPHONE - MINUTES LATER

Martin stands at the kiosk next to the Town Car, mid-

conversation.

INT. OATMAN'S OFFICE - INTERCUT

Oatman treats his patient.

In the background, Lardner and McCullers drive past the

station.

Martin looks to Debi. She looks up and smiles. We hear Dr.

Oatman's command, Martin mumbles them back.

Martin takes in a few breaths.

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - SAME

Felix rummages delicately around the room. He goes to the

NIGHTSTAND

The reunion invite.

FELIX

picks it up and scans it.

EXT. GROSSE POINT HIGH SCHOOL - DUSK

Lardner and McCullers sit it the parking lot. They watch

Martin and Debi pull into a space.

MARTIN AND DEBI

climb out of the car. Martin, breathing deeply and wiping

his sweaty palms, leans against the car and tries to calm

himself. Eighties music echoes from the gym.

He pulls himself off the car and heads toward

GROSSE POINTE HIGH SCHOOL

A sprawling red-brick Gothic structure with many wings. It

is topped by church-like towers. It's scary.

INT. GYM - NIGHT

Martin and Debi enter and pause to take in the entire scene.

A benevolent Ronald Reagan hangs crookedly above. Basketball

nets are swung back, draped with crepe. Lights are half-low

and the music is loud. Alumni are dancing.

Debi heads off into the gym, smiling back as she strands

Martin. Arlene rises from a card table. They have little to

say. Martin wasn't part of her crowd.

Arlene gives him a NAMETAG. As a special torture, the tags

have YEARBOOK PHOTOS. Martin looks at the name tag

uncomfortably.

She smiles at his joke and is immediately distracted by the

next arrival. Martin moves off...

He circles the crowded gym. Looking for familiar faces. He

stops at the open bar.

The bartender gets him a beer. Martin recognizes a guy at

the bar. He is well-appointed and shiny. He is KEN ALDRIDGE.

Bob Destephano arrives next to them and orders a drink. Eye

contact is made.

Bob turns slightly toward them. They continue in their

conversation.

Bob wants to join the conversation but doesn't know how.

Bob takes another drink and mopes off, Martin watches him

go.

Ken chuckles. The bartender arrives with the bottle. Martin

grabs it and begins to move off.

Ken hands Martin a Monte Blanc pen with Ken's title and

business address printed on the shaft. Martin reads it and

puts it in his kerchief pocket.

Ken goes back to listening to the Guys at the bar.

MARTIN

makes his way through the upbeat crowd of well-wishers. TERRY

emerges like an inkspot on a clean white whirt, and intercepts

Martin. His angst is barely under control as he sidles up to

Martin.

Martin shrugs.

Terry stops suddenly as if he's finished. Martin reads this

man's nametag.

Terry turns on a dime.

Terry slinks off.

BAR - SAME

Bob Destephano grabs two more scotches off the bar and turns

to leave, thoroughly morose. In his path, he finds DAN

KORETZKY, the good-looking side of brainy.

There's a sudden lull in the conversation. Bob tries his

drunken hand at relating...

Dan points up to a group of happy, laughing people. Bob walks

off shaking his head and smiling bitterly.

INT. GYM - LATER

Debi and Martin are seated at a round table with six others

in an area blocked off for dinner. Plates of gumbo are

arriving and the wine is poured. DARIUS, an African-American,

is in mid-conversation with AMY, who looks like she walked

out of a Laura Ashley catalog and sits on the other side of

Martin. DENNIS and MIKE are two suits in the midst of a non-

stop sports conversation.

They both crack up at this.

ANGLE ON DARIUS, MARTIN, & DEBI

Debi perks up; this should be interesting.

Martin begins to draw strange looks from all over the table.

Martin may be in trouble.

Silence. Martin pushes on.

Nods of assent come from around the table. A brief silence,

and then...

Debi suppresses a laugh.

Across the table from Martin and Debi, Dennis turns to Darius.

Amy leans in to Martin.

Debi nods, indicating to the deejay stand.

Martin watches her walk away.

INT. GYM - GRANDSTANDS - LATER

Dan Koretzky sits with two other FORMER-SQUARES-turned-

handsome-fellas who now enjoy a confidence that comes with

early investment in Microsoft.

Martin looks out over the milieu below, enjoying the seene.

He eavesdrops on a group of men from a few rows back.

GROUP OF MEN

They ponder this. Martin looks down on the gym, concentrating

on Debi.

BOB DESTEPHANO

Dancing drunkenly, miserable, like an unbalanced orangutan.

INT. GYM - DEEJAY BOOTH - LATER

Martin stands by Debi as she sits in for a set in the deejay

booth, on a raised stage. They are playing an old sophomoric

game.

STACEY breaks the moment, looking up at the two, horrified

and unsure at what she's heard.

Stacey nods thanks and makes her way up into the booth as

Martin and Debi make their way down.

She leads Martin toward the exit.

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY

Martin and Debi walk down the hallway, alone together.

Debi stops.

Together they move into what appears to be the Nurse's Office,

and close the door behind them.

INT. NURSE'S OFFICE

Martin and Debi make wild banshee love.

EXT. PARKING LOT - SAME

Lardner and McCullers watch Felix into the gym.

INT. GYM - SAME

FELIX

steps through the doorway he's standing in and strolls into

the crowded gym. He wears the standard khaki-pants-blue-blazer

combo, with no nametag. He's clearly too old for the class

of 1984.

INT. HALLWAY - LATER

Martin and Debi come out of the Nurse's Office. The post-

coital mood is broken as they hear The Human League's "Don't

You Want Me, Baby?"  blasting from the gym. Martin and Debi

tune in on the song for a moment, unhappy at remembering

that particular moment in pop music history. Debi looks to

Martin, something must be done about it.

Debi kisses him. They split up. Martin walks off, the happiest

we've seen him....

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY

Bob and several others from the muscle-to-fat crew play a

drunken scrimmage with a papier-mache table ornament footbal

that is coming unwound. Bob quarterbacks and begins to recite

a long, complicated, and forgotten play. Martin approaches

from behind Bob and glides through the ad-hoc line-up,

continuing down the hall. Bob yells "hike" as he stares after

Martin, distracted. Bob's rushed upon and sacked. He lets

the papier-mache ball drop and crack on the floor.

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - LATER

Martin walks down a silent, deserted hall of lockers and

classroom doors. The only sounds are his footsteps and the

echoed strains of Iggy Pop's "Wild Child" from the distant

gym. He stops at locker number 1963 and flips the dial: Right-

back left-right again. It opens. He pops up the steel false

ceiling in the empty locker, fishes his hand in the opening,

and withdraws what he is looking for: an ancient joint. He

holds it up and examines the now brown and dried reefer. He

grinds it into dust in his hand.

INT. HALLWAY

Debi comes out of the gym and starts down the hall, the music

changed for the better.

INT. HALLWAY - SAME

Martin senses he is not alone. He turns to find Bob

Destephano. The big man holds a glass unsteadily and slurs

slightly when he speaks. Bob is looking sad and scary. He

leans into Martin

Bob crumbles.

Bob realizes he can't even express his own tragedy without

the use of cliches.

Martin steps to Bob.

Bob slumps against the lockers, deflated.

Bob frowns, trying to think of a way to express himself.

Bob backs up and lets out a huge, drunken caveman scream,

then stops abruptly, and smiles.

Bob backpedals down the hallway and out of sight. Martin

watches him stumble out of the hallway and bang through the

doors of a stairwell, disappearing.

INT. STAIRWELL - CONTINUOUS

Bob slams through the doors and begins to stumble down the

stairs. He encounters Debi, on her way up. He glances at her

but does not break stride. Debi gives him wide berth, and

quickens her pace up the stairs...

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Martin watches the doors swing to a stop. He exhales and

relaxes... AND THEN Spin-pivots on his right heel, as a BURST

from a silenced pistol pierces the space where his head was

a split-second before/ As he spins around, his right hand

withdraws Ken's give-away pen from his kerchief pocket, pops

the cap off, and drive the pen up and through the throat of

his attacker--

FELIX

impaled through the throat on the pen, his head snapped back.

MARTIN AND FELIX

are frozen for a moment. Blood runs quickly down the front

of Felix's body, off of his shoes, and on to the floor. The

stairwell doors band open. Martin's head turns toward the

sound. His eyes lock onto

DEBI

who is frozen, horrified for a moment. She flees.

MARTIN

looks back at

FELIX

Dead.

THE FLOOR

A growing pool of blood.

MARTIN

Looks around wildly, holding Felix up against the lockers.

Above the lockers is a plastic banner proclaiming

MARTIN

rips it down from the wall with his free hand, wraps it around

Felix, stuffs the body into his open locker, and slams it

shut. He pulls off his shoes and socks, puts a sock over

each hand like mittens, and wipes up the small pool of blood.

He stuffs the socks into his pockets, takes off down the

hall, and bangs through the doors.

INT. GYM - GRANDSTANDS - MOMENTS LATER

Martin blasts through the upstairs doors to the grandstands

looking for Debi below. She is nowhere to be found. He scans

the party in progress-- It is the same frame of image as the

one in Oatman's office. In the middle of the floor, Terry

slowly turns up to meet Martin's eyes.

MARTIN

pulls the doors shut, and takes off down the hall.

INT. HALLWAY - MINUTES LATER

Martin opens his locker, withdraws the corpse, and hefts it

over his shoulder.

INT. STAIRWELL - A MINUTE LATER

Brick-walled, darkly lit, and narrow. Martin bounds down the

steep steps with his load.

INT. BASEMENT LOCKER ROOM HALLWAY - MINUTE LATER

Martin hustles toward a cage door in front of him. He kicks

through it and dumps Felix into a canvas laundry cart on

casters and begins rolling.

INT. PUMP AND FURNACE ROOM - A MINUTE LATER

The door bangs open and light pours into the room from behind

Martin. He negotiates the cart over the dirt floor and stops

next to the furnace that heats the swimming pool. He pauses

and looks to the ceiling: the music from the reunion pulses

into the floor above him. Martin picks up a large metal bar

and works open the door on the hulking cast-iron furnace. A

white-hot blaze roars within.

INT. GYM - NIGHT

The party is winding down. A harried-looking Martin walks in

and looks around once more for Debi-- nothing.

MARTIN'S POV

of the Deejay booth. It is empty.

He moves over to the bar and joins Ken Aldridge. He motions

to the bartender who opens a beer for him.

They both look around at the last of the reunion.

Before Ken can get started again...

Martin walks out of the gym.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

Paul is leaning against his Beemer, having a smoke.

Beat. Martin scans the lot for sign of Debi.

There is a beat of silence. Nothing seems worth saying.

Martin gets up to leave.

Paul watches him leave. He almost stops him, but thinks better

of it.

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - NIGHT

Martin hunches over his briefcase that lays open on the bed.

MARTIN PULLS

THE DOSSIER from the briefcase. It's seal is broken, but the

contents remain enclosed... He withdraws the package and

dumps the contents on the bed. His face registers muted shock.

THE CONTENTS

include various photos of MR. NEWBERRY, Mr. Newberry with

Debi, and the house. The photos are mingled with official-

looking papers including credit reports, medical records,

etc... Newberry's life.

He cocks his head toward the door anticipating a... KNOCK.

He freezes, then plucks a gun tapped under a desk, and moves

toward the door, pointing. Halfway to the door, his face and

body slacken. He lobs the gun onto the bed. With everything

gone wrong, there is nothing left to defend. He goes to the

door and opens it, body relaxed, expecting a bullet...

Debi moves past him into the room. She is completely calm.

Beat.

Beat.

Martin says nothing.

She goes for the door.

She stops at the door. Slowly, she turns.

Debi bolts out of the room. Martin is left alone.

Martin looks over at his gear on the bed. After a beat, he

walks slowly over and surveys his tools. He picks up a

cleaning rag and begins to go over the weapons, absently

singing to himself...

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - DAWN

Morning light comes through the slit in the curtains, picking

up four or five exquisitely clean guns are laid out on the

bed, almost geometrically spaced. Martin lifts one at a time,

checking their bores and actions...

INT. COUNTRY SQUIRE - MORNING

Lardner and McCullers gear up. They each finish loading the

last of many clips...

EXT. MICHIGAN HIGHWAY - MORNING

Grocer and Company, not in a Ford Passenger Van, veer off

onto an exit ramp. Grocer has assembled a team of about nine.

They draw different guns from their kit bags and begin

loading...

INT. COUNTRY SQUIRE - SAME

Lardner and McCullers jam clips into their service autos and

knock the slides...

INT. MARTIN'S SUITE - SAME

Martin finished loading his guns, and puts them in his case.

He shuts it and moves for the door. On the way out he stops

and looks himself in the mirror before exiting.

EXT. THREE DIFFERENT ROADS - INTERCUT

Each car whooshes by camera, on its way to the inevitable...

INT. EASTWEST HOLDING COMPANY - INTERCUT

Marcella has a cordless tucked between her shoulder and ear,

and holds a two-gallon gas can. She moves from room to room

pouring gasoline onto the computers, desks, and piles of

paper stacked on the floor. She adds a splash to her copy of

"Women Who Run With the Wolves."

She picks up her hard drive and smashes it on the floor.

It's cathartic.

INTERCUT WITH MARTIN IN THE TOWN CAR -

Silence on the line.

Martin finishes his weapons check, and pulls out the dossier.

Martin hangs up.

Marcella goes to it and pulls loose from underneath a shrink-

wrapped brick of $100 bills, probably a $100,000 or so.

INT. MARTIN'S TOWN CAR

Martin makes his way down the road to the Newberry's. In the

distance, he sees a lone figure jogging on the shoulder,

away from him.

INT. GROCER'S VAN - SAME

Grocer and Company are parked off to the side, watching

Newberry, in the distance, jog toward them. A SNIPER prepares

to blow Newberry's head off.

INT. MARTIN'S TOWN CAR - SAME

As he approaches the figure, he recognizes it as Newberry,

he accelerates.

INT. GROCER'S VAN - SAME

Grocer spots Martin's car speeding at Newberry.

EXT. ROAD - SAME

Newberry stops jogging and turns to face the Town Car bearing

down on him. His face goes slack, expecting to be creamed.

INT. TOWN CAR - SAME

Martin roars straight at Newberry, his engine shrieking. As

the distance between them turns from yards to feet... Martin

swerves hard, just missing Newberry and comes to a halt next

to him, blocking the Sniper's line of fire. After a moment,

Newberry opens the passenger door.

He does. They drive on.

INT. GROCER'S VAN - SAME

Grocer and company watch in amazement.

GROCER'S P.O.V.

of Martin's car disappearing into Newberry's long and wooded

driveway.

EXT. NEWBERRY HOUSE - SAME

Martin pulls up in front and stops. Both men scramble out

and head toward the front door at a quick clip. Newberry is

shaken; Martin seems at ease, at home in his element.

They go through the front door and shut it behind them.

INT. GROCER'S VAN - SAME

Grocer drops the van into gear and heads toward the driveway.

INT. COUNTRY SQUIRE - SAME

Lardner and McCullers approach the scene. They get within

viewing distance in time to see Grocer's Town Car turn into

the driveway.

INT. NEWBERRY HOUSE

Martin's briefcase is open on the large oak table. The

contents of the dossier are spilled out onto the table.

Newberry and Debi watch him, dumbstruck, as he draws a huge

Desert Eagle automatic and jerks back the slide. He turns to

Debi.

He turns and points the gun at the front door and FIRES two

shots through it, leaving two baseball-size holes in the

door.

Martin bolts out of the room toward the back of the house.

Debi and Newberry run as fast as they can away from Martin.

Newberry opens the front door, preparing to rush out with

Debi. They stop at what they see:

NEWBERRY'S & DEBI'S P.O.V.

As ASSASSIN lies on the porch, shot dead through the door by

Martin. IN one hand is a gun, in the other is a Fuller Brush

kit. Two men, GROCER and an ASSASSIN, clamber out of van,

their guns rising up fast toward us.

Debi pulls Newberry inside, slams the front door, and locks

it. They dive away just before ten rounds hit the door from

outside.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME

Martin rushes toward the back door which is already opening.

A barrel comes through and FIRES at Martin. Martin pulls

back behind the refrigerator and returns FIRE. An ASSASSIN

comes through the door in a crouch and takes cover behind

the cooking island. Martin, yelling back to Debi...

MARTIN

rushes toward the island, grabbing an iron skillet off the

range, and holds it up like a crossing-guard stop sign. He

steps toward the hidden Assassin just as the Assassin rises

SHOOTING. The skillet takes two rounds before Martin hammers

the Assassin's head with it. Debi and Newberry arrive in the

kitchen.

NEW ANGLE - LOW DUTCH

Martin bashes the skillet into the Assassin's skull, which

is beyond our view. He rises spattered with blood and looks

at Debi.

Martin drops the skillet and grabs Newberry and Debi gently

be the wrists.

He ushers them past the bludgeoned corpse and up the back

stairs. He spins and FIRES twice back down the stairs at

another ASSASSIN coming up, blowing his arms off.

HALLWAY

He leads them quickly.

He takes them into a bedroom, and BLOWS AWAY, an ASSASSIN

coming in through the window, emptying his auto. Martin pushes

Debi and Newberry into an adjoining bathroom. He backs out

through the doorway.

They do. Martin starts away, but stops to get something

straight.

INT. FOYER

Martin corners the banister and springs half-way down the

stairs, then hears the front door begin to open.

Martin jams in another clip, and chambers a round. He sees

Grocer beginning to slip in.

Martin FIRES the twelve-round clip into the door until the

slide locks back empty again. Grocer backs out fast. Martin

hears a gun REPORT from upstairs and moves back toward it,

tossing the spent weapon.

INT. BEDROOM

An ASSASSIN slams his body against the bathroom door while

Debi and Newberry scream from within. Martin flies at him.

The Assassin wheels on Martin FIRING. Martin pivots out of

the line of fire, still moving forward. He takes hold of

Assassin's neck and snaps it. Martin drops the corpse.

Martin stops short and cocks his head toward Grocer's muffled

voice coming from the vent. Grocer continues...

Martin, incensed, bends down and takes the gun from the dead

man. He runs out of the bedroom, gun poised for a kamikaze

firefight...

EXT. NEWBERRY HOUSE - SAME

Lardner and McCullers are poised outside the front door,

about to enter the mix. McCullers peers through the window.

INT. NEWBERRY FOYER - CONTINUOUS

MARTIN

reaches the top of the front stairs to find Grocer heading

up the stairs at him. They lift their guns at each other to

FIRE, when they hear...

LARDNER AND MCCULLERS

power through the front door, guns BLAZING at floor-level,

ala Butch and Sundance.

Martin and Grocer, above, spin on them instinctively, and

FIRE, killing them. Grocer dives off of the stairs and rolls

out of view.

KITCHEN - INTERCUT

GROCER

heads up the back stairs.

MARTIN

works his way toward Grocer, moving with stealth toward the

kitchen.

GROCER

hears him and starts back down.

Martin dives behind the cooking island just as Grocer comes

out of the stairwell blasting. They unload at each other as

Grocer runs a pattern across the kitchen, FIRING at Martin,

crouched, who BLASTS back. Grocer vaults himself through the

air toward a serving window from the kitchen to the dining

room, still firing.

C.U. - MARTIN'S GUN - SLOW MOTION

The last casing floats out of the chamber into the air, and

the slide on the auto locks back-- empty.

NORMAL SPEED

GROCER

Flying through the air disappearing through the shuttered

serving window, his flight carrying him past a television

that sits on a lazy susan.

MARTIN AND GROCER - INTERCUT

Martin and Grocer sit on the floor, backs up against opposite

side of the counter-- Martin in the kitchen and Grocer in

the dining room. The hulking old television sits on the

counter above and between them.

Martin looks up and spies the TELEVISION

Martin takes out a checkbook, and tears one free. He wads it

into a loose ball and tosses it over the counter.

BALLED CHECK

sails over the television and comes down, bouncing off

Grocer's head and into his lap.

Grocer pulls two rounds from the clip of his semi-automatic

and pushes the clip back into the gun. Grocer arcs the TWO

BULLETS into the air.

MARTIN

rises and springs at the television, gripping it. The TWO

BULLETS sail past his head.

GROCER

begins to rise from his side of the counter, cocking his

gun.

MARTIN

puts all his weight and motion behind the television. Martin

and the television careen off of the counter toward Grocer.

GROCER

gets off one round before

MARTIN

flies onto Grocer, smashing the seventy-five pound television

over his Goddamn head. Martin sails past the collision,

landing on his back in the dining room. He rolls over to see

GROCER

Body crumpled, neck is snapped, head encased in the shattered

picture tube. He is dead.

MARTIN

runs up the front stairs, retrieving the spent gun he

discarded earlier, and heads into the bedroom.

INT. BEDROOM - MINUTES LATER

Martin opens the bathroom door. Inside, Debi sits on the

edge of the tub, her face in her hands. Newberry kneels with

his arms around her. Martin takes this in, and walks back

into the bedroom. Newberry stands and follows him out.

MARTIN AND NEWBERRY

MARTIN a bloody, tattered mess, wipes off the gun and puts

it into Newberry's hand. Newberry, in total shock, grips it.

Martin looks past Newberry.

MARTIN'S P.O.V.

Of Debi, head in hands.

Debi doesn't look up. After a moment, she reaches out, head

still down, and closes the bathroom door...

INT. RADIO STATION - DAY

Outside is a Michigan autumn. Debi sits at her console,

bringing in the mike as she fades out of a tune...

THE PHONE CONSOLE

lights up with an incoming cal...

She pushes a couple of buttons, slaps a cartridge in a player,

and answers the phone. We hear the commercial over the studio

monitor:

Debi picks up the phone.

Her face goes slack as she listens... not good, not bad...

Then she hangs up slowly. The commercial ends. A moment of

dead air, then she snaps to.

Debi turns on a reel-to-reel, and leaves.

EXT. FRANK LLOYD WRIGHT HOUSE - DAY

Debi pulls up and gets out. She begins toward the door but

stops dead when she sees

MARTIN

sitting on the front steps.

Debi moves slowly up the walk and sits next to him on the

porch. They sit, gazing out over the grass and trees beyond.

After a while...

She turns to him, serious.

Martin looks at her earnestly... And smiles ever so slightly.

She does the same, and then just a little wider. He the same.

They turn back out to face the lawn, and they share a laugh...

