THE HOSPITAL. DAY. MAY,

PANORAMIC VIEW of The Hospital -- a vast medical complex, a

sprawling pastiche of architecture extending ten blocks north

and south on First Avenue and east to the river.

The Hospital was founded in the late 19th century, and there

are still a few begrimed Victorian Bedlams and Bastilles

among the buildings. Mostly though, it is Medical Modern

1971, white and chrome and lots of glass and concrete shafts

and rotundas. A spanking new Community Mental Health Clinic

towers among the tenements at the northern end of the complex.

On the far side of First Avenue, a twenty-story apartment

house with recessed balconies and picture windows to house

the resident staff has just recently been completed, and

next to it, eight ghetto buildings are being demolished to

make way -- according to the construction company's sign --

for a new Drug Rehabilitation Center, to be completed in

1973, we should all live so long. This is where the shattering

SOUNDS OF CONSTRUCTION are coming from. A block length of

generators and cement and demolition machines are POUNDING,

CRASHING, SCREAMING. Traffic HONKS and BRAYS up First Avenue.

It is a cold spring morning -- 10:00 A.M.

A 1966 station wagon pulls up to the Holly Pavilion.

A tiny, fragile, white-bearded OLD MAN, almost lost in his

overcoat, is helped from the rear of a station wagon and

slowly led to the entrance doors by a middle-aged nurse.

HOLLY PAVILION. EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR

The old man is now in a wheelchair pushed by a hospital

orderly down the corridor.

ROOM 806

The old man, shirtless, is propped on the edge of the bed,

wheezing. DR. SCHAEFER, a young intern in white-uniform,

perches beside him with the old man's chart in his lap, taking

down his history. The other patient in the two-bedded room,

a MIDDLE-AGED MAN, is comatose and all rigged up with I.V.'s

and catheters.

EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR

Two orderlies rush the old man's bed with, of course, the

old man in it, past the Nurses' Station and into a waiting

elevator.

INTENSIVE CARE

An oxygen mask is applied to the old man's face by the

resident.

EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR

The elevator door opens. Two orderlies wheel the sleeping

man on his bed back around the Nurses' Station and down the

corridor to his room.

ROOM 806. EVENING

The old man is back in his room sleeping serenely, his tiny

body making barely a ripple in the white sheet that covers

him. The room is in hushed shadows. A yellowish light diffuses

into the room from the half-opened bathroom door. The other

patient in the room remains as before, comatose and silent.

ROOM 806

All the lights are on now. NURSE PENNY CANDUSO and an orderly

are wrapping the old man in a post-mortem shroud. BRUBAKER,

the senior resident, is giving hell to Schaefer, the intern.

The shrouded body of the old man is wheeled out of the room.

CAMERA STAYS on the vacated bed.

PAN from bed to Schaefer, now alone in the room and regarding

the empty bed with frowning interest. Schaefer is a scraggly

young fellow, bespectacled, with a contemporary mess of hair

and a swinging unkempt moustachio. HOLD on Schaefer.

Dr. Schaefer moves for the phone on the table between the

two beds.

Schaefer speaks softly into the phone.

FREEZE on CLOSE-UP of the beaming, lubricious Schaefer on

phone as

CREDITS AND MUSIC ERUPT ONTO THE SCREEN --

INTERSPERSED WITH CREDITS, the following scenes:

ROOM 806. NIGHT

Dark. Just a bit of moonlight streaking through the not quite

closed bathroom. The hallway door opens, and a young woman,

carrying a top coat, slips quickly in giggling like hell,

followed by Schaefer, who is likewise giggling and admonishing

her to be quiet. Her name is SHEILA. Sheila notices the other

patient in the room sleeping away and looks questioningly at

Schaefer, who reassures her as he removes her coat. After

which he strips off his own white jacket and trousers and

hangs them in the armoire. The girl asks in a hoarse whisper

if they're going to get totally nude and wonders if that's

such a good idea. For an answer, Schaefer fondles her crotch.

They both giggle, they both shush each other, they giggle

again; they're both stoned. The girl unzippers her dress.

The dark room is filled for the moment with the flurry of

undressing, flung garments, elbows, legs and arms, bumpings

into each other, and Sheila saying between giggles, "Boy, I

sure hope nobody walks in."

They eventually wind up on the unoccupied bed, and the scene

ends looking ACROSS the sleeping profile of THE PATIENT in

the other bed as Schaefer and his girl thump away at each

other with much creaking of springs, moans, groans, giggles

and the white-limbed patterns of fornication.

ROOM 806

Dark, silent, hushed. The fun and games are over. Sheila is

in front of the armoire. She slips back into her dress, after

which she tiptoes back to the bed where Schaefer is deeply

asleep, smiling in postcoital peace. Sheila bends, shakes

his shoulder.

Schaefer smiles, grunts, sleeps on.

END OF CREDITS.

FADE IN:

THE HOSPITAL. 6:30 A.M. NEXT MORNING, TUESDAY

A cold newly-dawned sun shines down on the vast sprawling

complex of the hospital. Desultory early morning traffic on

First Avenue.

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR

The night shift of nurses is closing out another night's

work, which has been on the whole uneventful. The head nurse,

MRS. REARDON, hunches over her paperwork. NURSE ELIZABETH

RIVERS sits at the desk beside her, resting her head on the

palm of one hand. NURSE'S AID J.C. MILLER crosses with an

armful of linens. She disappears into the pharmacy and supply

areas behind the Nurses' Station. In the west corridor, NURSE

LUCINDA PEREZ glances at her watch, then pads down to Room

806. She enters.

ROOM 806. DAY

A cold gray light cheerlessly illuminates the room. Nurse

Perez checks the I.V. on the comatose patient who is in the

bed nearest the door. Then she turns to regard the other bed --

which gives her pause.

NURSE'S P.O.V.: Intern Dr. Schaefer is lying on this bed,

rigid, eyes dilated, pupils staring unseeing. An I.V. tube

sticks out of his naked right arm. Nurse Perez doesn't quite

know what to make of the fact that Dr. Schaefer is lying on

that bed with an I.V. tube sticking out of him looking dead.

Frowning, she reaches out a tentative hand to shake his naked

shoulder.

There is, of course, no response. A terrible suspicion enters

Nurse Perez's mind, and she closes her eyes and sighs a long

shuddering sigh. Then she opens her eyes and, with a second

and briefer sigh, reaches for Schaefer's neck to take his

pulse. Clearly, the result is not encouraging. She sighs

another short sigh and regards Schaefer's unblinking, dilated

pupils. It's all a bit too much for her; she shuffles to the

window and stares out into the gray morning where things are

a little more comprehensible. Once again, she returns to the

bed, regards Schaefer's death mask. She raises the bedsheet

and, for one short but appreciative moment, considers

Schaefer's naked body. She lets the bedsheet carefully down.

She sighs again.

She sighs, turns and leaves the room.

EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR

Nurse Perez, frowning and pursing her lips, moves slowly

back to...

EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION

Head Nurse Reardon is still bent over her paperwork.

With a short, irritable sigh, Mrs. Reardon abandons her

paperwork and heads down the west corridor, followed by Nurses

Perez and Rivers. CAMERA TRACKS as Mrs. Reardon turns to

Nurse Rivers.

Phone RINGS.

BOCK'S HOTEL ROOM

Dark. Venetian blinds drawn. TV set on, a gray coarse-grained

square. PHONE RINGS.

DR. HERBERT BOCK, 53 years old, a large man, bulky,

disheveled, apparently fell asleep in a chair while watching

television the night before. The bed still has its spread on

but is rumpled. Bock is in trousers and shirt, collar opened,

barefooted. PHONE RINGS. The reading lamp is the only light

in the room except for the sheen of gray hissing from the

television. Newspapers litter the floor. Books, two-day-old

plates of food, yesterday's mugs of coffee, cigar-stuffed

ashtrays, a shirt, a pair of pants, a winter overcoat, a

battered gray fedora have been slung about. PHONE on the

bedtable RINGS again, begins to penetrate the sotted sleep

of the man. Two bottles of booze, one empty, and a clump of

glasses are on the coffee table in front of Bock. He grunts,

opens an eye. PHONE RINGS. Bock suddenly exsufflates in a

snorting grunt. He stands, shuffles to the bed, a big, sodden

fellow, picks up the receiver, interrupting its next RING.

He sinks, sitting on the bed.

He returns the receiver to its cradle, sits disoriented,

unbuttoning his shirt.

HOSPITAL. MORNING. 8:00 A.M.

LONG SHOT of the hospital, now alive and jumping. Taxis pull

up and out of the large U-shaped drive. A noisy picket line

of about twenty chanting protesters parade with signs in an

uneven ellipse.

Most of the placards are slogan-y: "PEOPLE YES! DOCTORS NO!" --

"CURE POVERTY! HEAL THE POOR!" Two protesters move toward

the street, waving and yelling at an approaching car. One, a

young white fellow wears a sandwich board that goes into the

matter at some length: "WE PROTEST THE EVICTION OF 386 BLACK

FAMILIES AND THE DESTRUCTION OF THEIR HOMES TO SERVE THE

EXPANSIONIST POLICIES OF THIS IMPERIALIST HOSPITAL."

In the back seat of the car sits JOHN SUNDSTROM, handsomely

graying, tanned, early fifties, the Director of the Hospital.

He looks up. That young demonstrator, DR. IVES, a sandy-haired

bespectacled man of 30 in a white doctor's coat, sidles to

the car's open rear window angrily shouting.

Sundstrom lowers his window and gives his driver directions.

He exits in the BACKGROUND parking area, where he notices

Bock emerging from his car. Sundstrom waits for him.

Bock's sour glance says it all. He locks his car, joins

Sundstrom, and the two men start down the concrete ramp.

They trudge across the U-shaped entrance drive, pausing to

let a car pass.

They pick their way around the shuffling line of protesters --

many with Afro haircuts and tinted glasses, including a black

minister and four young white activists.

HOSPITAL, HOLLY PAVILION, EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR

Early-arriving secretaries chat in the doorways. The corridor

itself connects to the Bryce Pavilion (pediatrics, gynecology

and obstetrics), so a steady stream of traffic moves back

and forth. Bock and Sundstrom enter the corridor and slow to

a halt to continue their chat by a wall.

He sets off down the long corridor to the elevators. MILTON

MEAD, the Administrator of the Hospital, comes out of one of

the offices, waves a good morning to Bock, who acknowledges

him and plods on. Mead comes up to Sundstrom, now moving

toward his own office.

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR. 8:15 A.M.

The elevator door opens. Out comes Bock, overcoat unbuttoned

now. He clumps to the Nurses' Station. An unusual number of

nurses seems to be there. Through the doorway of the floor

pharmacy, we can see Nurse Rivers of the night shift being

comforted by Nurse Perez of the night shift and Nurse Edwards

of the morning shift. The head morning nurse, MRS. DONOVAN,

is at the desk hunched over her paperwork. (Nurses are always

hunched over their paperwork.) NURSE FELICIA CHILE is also

seated at the desk doing some paperwork. Head Nurse Donovan

looks up briefly as Dr. Bock approaches.

Bock lumbers off for the west corridor through a press of

activity. Kitchen workers trundle creaking portable carts,

nurse's aids and attendants pop in and out of doorways bearing

trays and used dishes. A robed patient or two ambulates along

the hall. Morning rounds have just started, which means a

clump of white-jacketed, white-trousered young doctors are

gathered in a gaggle at the far end. The group includes senior

resident MONROE BRUBAKER, junior resident HARVEY BIEGELMAN,

interns SAM CHANDLER and IRVING AMBLER and another medical

student, all lounging outside a door discussing the condition

of the patient within.

Chandler is presenting the case from a handful of notecards

in his hand. The others lean against the walls, listening.

They wear shirts and ties with the exception of Ambler, who

is new to the floor and still in the canonical white tunic

under his jacket. They are all in their twenties and have

swinger sideburns and occasional mustaches. When he spots

Dr. Bock, senior resident Brubaker turns the rounds over to

Biegelman and joins Bock just outside 806.

The door to Room 806 opens, and an Assistant Administrator

named HITCHCOCK pokes his head out.

Bock makes a noise and goes into...

ROOM 806

Aside from Hitchcock, the room includes MRS. CHRISTIE, the

Director of Nurses, a fusty forty-six, in streetclothes;

Head Night Nurse, Mrs. Reardon, in uniform; Head Evening

Nurse, MRS. DUNNE, mid-fifties, who had apparently been called

in from home because she's in mufti and wearing a winter

coat; and, of course, the comatose patient and the dead Dr.

Schaefer. Mrs. Christie is instructing the two nurses.

Mrs. Dunne, on the verge of tears, head bobbing, looks up to

Bock.

They all file out now, Bock in the rear into...

HALLWAY, NURSES' STATION AND LOBBY AREA

They all go along to the Nurses' Station where Mrs. Reardon

and Mrs. Dunne disappear into the rooms behind. Mrs. Christie

leads Hitchcock and the trailing Bock to the TV-solarium;

but Dr. Brubaker is now holding his rounds there. He stands,

quietly expounding on the uses of heparin, a decoagulant.

One of the patients last night had hemorrhaged consequent to

injudicious use of that drug. Listening, the other young

doctors make notes. Mrs. Christie leans against the wall.

Apparently, the conference is to take place in the corridor.

Background activity continues normally.

Bock has begun to get the drift. A curious state of apathy

settles over him.

Bock heads abruptly down the corridor to the elevators.

HOLLY PAVILION, SEVENTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR

A corridor of offices. This is the Department of Medicine,

where Bock and all the senior staff members of the department

have their offices. It's quiet, since most of the staff are

away at their various specialties about the hospital.

Bock comes up the corridor still wearing the overcoat he

arrived in some hours ago. He has only managed to unbutton

it in all the time it has taken him to reach the corner

office. Gilt lettering on the door reads: DEPARTMENT OF

MEDICINE and below that DR. HERBERT E. BOCK.

BOCK'S OFFICE, OUTER OFFICE

Small office with two desks. As Department Chief, Bock gets

two secretaries. Both are at their desks, one on the phone,

MISS GLORIA LEBOW, and the other rattling away on the IBM,

MISS STEPHANIE McGUIRE.

It would seem not. Bock waves a listless hand, exits into...

BOCK'S PRIVATE OFFICE

The modestly imposing office is lined with medical tomes.

Bock slips out of his coat and jacket and hangs them in the

closet. In shirtsleeves with his tie a bit askew --

fastidiousness in dress is not Bock's strong point -- he

crosses to his desk and sits, breathing more heavily than

his small exertions would seem to warrant. He seems exhausted.

There is a KNOCK on the door. Miss Lebow enters, holding a

filing envelope stuffed with papers.

A guttural noise indicates yes. Miss Lebow pulls up a chair,

opens her folder.

She places a sheet of paper on the desk in front of Bock. He

tries to give his attention to it.

Bock obviously isn't up to all this. He waves a limp hand to

stop Miss Lebow's morning report.

He lumbers across the room and out into...

BOCK'S OUTER OFFICE

...and down past Miss McGuire, rattling away on her IBM, and

out into...

HOLLY PAVILION, SEVENTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR

...down past several closed doors, stopping at a door marked

DEPARTMENT OF PSYCHIATRY, DR. JOSEPH EINHORN. He enters.

DR. EINHORN'S OFFICE, SECRETARY'S OFFICE

A secretary at her desk, sips coffee and reads a paperback

novel.

The doctor is obviously in. He can be seen through the open

door sitting at his desk writing in a notebook. Bock leans

in.

Bock goes in, closes the door behind himself.

DR. EINHORN'S OFFICE

Bock looks only at the floor.

Indeed, he does not. He is horrified by the fact his eyes

are wet and he is verging on tears. He turns away quickly.

He starts for the door.

Before Einhorn can say a word, he slips away and disappears

into his own office.

HOLLY PAVILION. 8:30 A.M.

The score of protesters outside the pavilion still move in

an uneven ellipse and shout: "Two -- Four! Help the Poor!"

Ives, the bespectacled demonstrator who shouted at Sundstrom

earlier, is removing his sandwich boards and giving them to

his replacement. He hurries across the walk and into...

HOLLY PAVILION, LOBBY

Ives cuts through the congestion of people and moves swiftly

up the long corridor leading to the Farkis Building,

unbuttoning his overcoat as he goes into...

THE FARKIS BUILDING, FIFTH FLOOR

...and comes out, as the elevator opens. This is a laboratory

floor, and the corridors are empty except for a white-

uniformed orderly leaning against a wall and for one young

woman in a white smock in the background, who waves to the

young man before disappearing into one of the rooms. Ives

fishes out a ring of keys and unlocks the door to his own

lab. He enters into...

FARKIS BUILDING, NEPHROLOGY LAB

Dingy and cheerless place, as labs go. Ives hangs his coat

in the cupboard, loosens his tie, unbuttons his suit jacket,

squats on a stool, reaches over for a loose file on the work

table, opens the file and begins to read the papers inside.

A door CLICKS open behind him, and without looking up, he

waves briefly to whoever has entered. CAMERA DOLLIES to FULL

SHOT of Ives frowning over his notes. We are suddenly

conscious of a white-uniformed presence behind him. We know

it's medical personnel, but we can't see the face. Ives starts

to turn to the presence behind him, when suddenly a small

hospital sandbag is whipped down on his head, and he slumps

forward, his forehead thumping against the black surface of

the lab table.

HOSPITAL. NOON

HIGH ANGLE SHOT establishing the passing of hours. Sun high

overhead, traffic on First Avenue an impenetrable river of

HONKS and HOOTS. At a crosswalk, a loose procession of fifty

or so shouting demonstrators, bearing placards, flows toward

the main gates. Their posters read: "FIGHT DOPE -- NOT DOPES!"

"DRUGS YES! TRANSPLANTS NO!" and "SAVE OUR KIDS FROM THE

SKIDS!" which is what they now chant: "Save our kids! From

the Skids!" The demonstration moves through a handful of

city cops where our original group of twenty still ramble

around, chanting: "Two -- Four! Help the Poor!"

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR

The staff elevator doors open and Bock comes out, wearing

his long white doctor's coat unbuttoned. Hanging about the

Nurses' Station are Dr. Brubaker and a few young men in white.

They come quickly to respectful attention at Bock's entrance.

CLATTERING TRAYS dominate the lunchtime atmosphere.

The doctors move off toward the solarium on the east corridor

overlooking the river. They pass a curious quartet of people

consisting of a very handsome YOUNG WOMAN in her late twenties

in an out-of-fashion miniskirt (She has great legs, long and

tanned.); an ELDERLY MAN, uncomfortable in city clothes and

unmistakably an INDIAN; a tall overcoated man in his forties

wearing a MINISTER's white collar; and a DISTINGUISHED MAN

dressed in fashionable gray who is trying to persuade the

young woman of something. The young woman and the Indian

stand absolutely still, silent, impassive. The minister is

more fidgety.

Bock and Brubaker, trailed by young doctors, move into the

TV room.

EIGHTH FLOOR, TV ROOM

Some twenty-five or thirty young doctors, two or three of

them black, three or four of them women, fill the room. At

Bock's entrance, they find places around the walls, sofas,

soft chairs and benches. The TV set has been pushed into a

corner, and a large portable blackboard has been set up.

This is the Chief of Service Round, attended by every

available intern and resident. Somebody closes the door,

just as two young doctors come hurrying in.

EMERGENCY AREA, WAITING ROOM

People of all ages sit around on aluminum chairs arranged

around the walls of the room. All are in streetclothes. Some

speak to each other. A line of people, extending into the

hallway and holding their charts, waits for a lady from the

accounting department taking Blue Cross numbers. This lady

from accounting is MRS. CUSHING, late forties, bespectacled

and testy. She calls out at large.

Her phone RINGS. She picks it up.

To a man on line at her desk, thrusting his chart out to

her.

She makes her way to the door and goes out into...

EMERGENCY AREA, ENTRANCE LOBBY

...which is congested. Mrs. Cushing enters...

EMERGENCY, ADMITTING AND TREATMENT ROOMS

Facing the desk are six curtained treatment rooms, mostly

open to view. Behind the desk are a supply room and another

treatment room. Both are occupied, the former by a PARANOID

LADY wringing her hands in a paranoid rush and listened to

by a very patient young intern.

...and in the other room, a man in his thirties is being

treated for some sort of head lacerations. In one treatment

room, the Chief of Emergency Service, DR. SPEZIO, a man in

his late thirties, along with an intern, an anesthesiologist

and a nurse, is bent over a naked and comatose young black

woman of eighteen, covered somewhat with a sheet. She's a

junkie, being intubated, i.e. a small endotracheal tube has

been inserted into her mouth. This is the most melodramatic

of the varied activity here.

A middle-aged man complaining of chest pains is lying clothed

in another treatment room; a nurse attends him.

An asthmatic middle-aged woman sits in still another room

being administered her 500 mg. of amenophylene subcutaneously.

The curtains on another room are drawn for privacy. On chairs

in the corner sit a teenage boy with a badly sprained ankle

and an elderly man bathing his hand in an enamel basin held

in his lap.

A young mother with a five-year-old daughter with a badly

cut arm is being attended to by the back wall. The Emergency

Room Nursing Supervisor, MISS ARONOVICI, a pretty woman in

her mid-twenties, is sterilizing the little girl's wound.

Mrs. Cushing makes her way to Miss Aronovici. They detest

each other.

Miss Aronovici turns to Mrs. Cushing, regarding her sweetly.

Mrs. Cushing elbows back through the line of patients waiting

at the Admitting desk.

There are now three nurses behind the desk, all of them on

phones. One nurse calls to Dr. Spezio.

Spezio heads for the door where he is intercepted by Mrs.

Cushing.

He goes out, followed by Mrs. Cushing, into...

EMERGENCY AREA, LOBBY

Spezio and Mrs. Cushing move between laundry and supply carts.

Spezio stops, sighs, examines the paper.

He strides off.

She turns into...

EMERGENCY AREA, HOLDING ROOM

Designed to hold patients who've been examined and wait to

be admitted to a room upstairs, it's in fact used for

examination, treatment, storage. The room is quiet. Two male

patients lie on comfortable stretchers, apparently sedated

and resting. Mrs. Cushing turns to the patient immediately

to her right as she enters. To the still figure she poses

her questions.

She gets no answer from that bed. From another direction, a

voice.

She turns to Mitgang. Something bothers her about the first

patient. She finds Mitgang's chart tucked in under his pillow,

takes out her pencil.

Mitgang, eyes closed, emits a sound.

Negative grunt from Mitgang.

In a fit of temper, Mrs. Cushing throws the chart and her

pencil down on the floor.

She pulls his chart from under his pillow, bends and retrieves

her pencil from the floor, straightens. She speaks to the

silent patient.

No answer. CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY IN on the patient. We now

recognize him as the bespectacled young activist Dr. Ives,

so recently coshed over the head with a sandbag.

Mrs. Cushing stares at the patient. He is not breathing.

Behind her, the nurse exits carrying whatever she came for.

Mrs. Cushing turns to her, but she is gone. Frowning, Mrs.

Cushing backs out...

...as Dr. Spezio and others come down the corridor.

HOLDING ROOM

Spezio regards the death mask of a face.

He moves quickly forward to raise the dead man's eyelid.

Behind him, a nurse enters. He wheels on her angrily.

MILTON MEAD'S OFFICE. 2:00 P.M.

MILTON MEAD, late thirties, lean, efficient but under constant

strain, is having his daily staff luncheon conference, which

consists of a CHIEF ENGINEER, the ASSISTANT ADMINISTRATOR OF

PERSONNEL, three residents in administration, including

Hitchcock, sandwiches and coffee.

Mead's phone RINGS and he picks it up.

He moves across his office into...

MEAD'S SECRETARY'S OFFICE

Actually a communal office with desks for three secretaries.

Mead frowns, leans back into his own office.

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR

The staff elevator door opens, and Milton Mead comes out. He

has apparently been buttonholed in the elevator by a woman

in a doctor's coat, DR. IMMELMAN, Pathology, who follows him

out...

He turns left and heads for...

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION

...where Head Nurse Donovan is bent over her paperwork. In

the background, we see normal morning hospital activity.

Nurse's Aid, SHARLENE STONE, takes towels into a room. R.N.

Felicia Chile comes out of another, bearing her enamel tray

of instruments.

Also in the background, the curious quartet from before --

the beautiful woman, the elderly Indian, the minister, Dr.

Sutcliffe. Mead hardly notices them as he makes for the desk.

Mead bobs his head thank you and heads for the west corridor.

EIGHTH FLOOR, ROOM

As Milton Mead enters, his elder brother, WILLIAM MEAD, mid-

forties, a smaller and manifestly nervous man, is seated

sullenly puffing a cigar, fidgeting, still wearing his coat

and hat. He looks up briefly when Milton enters and avoids

his brother's eye. His wife, MARILYN, late thirties, is

standing in suppressed exasperation, staring out the window.

Out of respect for the COMATOSE PATIENT, the ensuing agitated

scene is held in whispers.

He exits.

EIGHTH FLOOR, TV ROOM

Bock -- excited, vivid, alive -- is in full flush with his

lecture. He moves around in front of the blackboard, chalk

in hand. The blackboard itself is scrawled with formulae and

diagrams. He is writing the words "full abdomen," as the

fifth in a list reading "(1) parexia, (2) hepatomegaly, (3)

splenomegaly, (4) episodes of arthralgia." The audience is

forty young doctors rapt with attention. There is a good

deal of note-taking.

He rumbles toward the door. The class of doctors dissolves

into hospital murmurs and mutters and a general dispersal.

They follow Bock out to...

EIGHTH FLOOR, EAST CORRIDOR

...where Dr. Sutfcliffe, the beautiful young woman, the

elderly Indian and the minister are engaged in agitated

discussion. The girl and the Indian retain their stoic

impassivity. Dr. Sutcliffe leaves them and moves down the

corridor to the counter of...

EIGHTH FLOOR NURSES' STATION

Sutcliffe points off right.

The nurse nods indifferently.

ACROSS to Bock coming out of the TV room, followed by some

dozen young doctors. Bock is in very good spirits indeed. He

quizzes his young doctors en route:

Brubaker detaches himself from his group to join Sutcliffe.

CAMERA STAYS with Bock and his entourage, following them

down the east corridor, Bock still happily conducting class.

Bock strides into...

ROOM 819

Past two beds, they group around the foot of a third bed on

the right side of the room. Bock checks the patient lying in

the bed.

One of the young men hands his to Bock, who leans over the

patient to look through it.

The doctors exchange a look as Bock rises, moves toward them,

laughing.

Bock hands the opthalmoscope to Ambler.

Bock turns to the off-screen patient, helping her sit up and

forward, percussing her back as the students look on.

EIGHTH FLOOR, EAST CORRIDOR

Brubaker and Sutcliffe are now both involved in discussion

with the woman, the Indian and the minister, as Bock drifts

through the background, followed by the band of young doctors

now dispersing. Bock crosses past the foreground group to

the staff elevator. He pushes the button. Brubaker approaches

Bock. They confer quietly in the hallway.

The elevator comes and goes, disgorging some, taking on

others. Bock, who greeted Brubaker with a rare, benign smile,

has begun to look a bit sodden. Poor Brubaker, aware of the

gathering storm in Bock's demeanor, sighs and continues

regardless.

Bock squints at Brubaker.

A great sad serenity has settled over Bock.

The gathering storm erupts. Rage suffuses Bock's face. Out

of respect for the hospital corridor and the people working

around him and Brubaker, he keeps it glacial. But there is

no mistaking the volcanic fury he feels.

The elevator door opens. A couple of nurses come out. Bock

strides in.

SEVENTH FLOOR, DEPT. OF MEDICINE CORRIDOR

Bock advances in a cold fury down to his office. He wrenches

the door open.

BOCK'S OFFICE, OUTER OFFICE

Miss Lebow and Miss McGuire clatter away at typewriters.

Sitting on a chair in the crowded office is a senior staff

doctor, a man in his late forties, wearing a coat similar to

Bock's. He is DR. LAGERMAN. He looks up from the magazine

he's been leafing through as Bock storms in.

Bock acknowledges him with a brusque nod, storms over to

Miss Lebow.

He strides, followed by Dr. Lagerman, into...

BOCK'S PRIVATE OFFICE

...and slams the door shut behind him.

The phone RINGS. Bock seizes it.

This gives Bock pause. He blinks at Lagerman.

HOLLY PAVILION, FIRST FLOOR, PATHOLOGY DEPT

Bock, Lagerman and Hitchcock have gathered across the shrouded

figure of Dr. Ives on a stretcher. We are in the lab section

of Pathology; in the background, through the glass part of

the door separating the lab from the surgery room, we can

see the autopsy on Dr. Schaefer being performed.

Schaefer's naked white cadaver is stretched out on an

operating table. He has been opened up and all his vital

organs are being excised. It's bloody. The autopsy is being

performed by DR. BREWSTER, the Resident in Pathology, dressed

in surgical scrub.

He knocks on the glass window of the door separating the

laboratory from the operating room. Dr. Brewster turns from

his gory chore. Bock makes a gesture saying, "How much

longer?" Brewster raises ten blood-drenched rubber-gloved

fingers. Bock turns and shuffles across the lab for the door

out.

He goes down...

THE PATHOLOGY CORRIDOR

...and is soon lost in the normal traffic of the area.

THE HOSPITAL. NIGHT

CRASH of THUNDER. CRACKLE of LIGHTNING. A horror-film

rainstorm lashes the vast dark complex of buildings.

SEVENTH FLOOR, DEPT. OF MEDICINE CORRIDOR

Dark, empty, silent. One lonely light at the lobby end of

the long, closed corridor of offices. The door to Bock's

office stands ajar and issues a trace of light.

BOCK'S OFFICE

ACROSS the silent, dark, typewriter-covered desks of the two

secretaries through the doorway to Bock's private office, we

can see Bock at his desk, lit by the desk lamp. He has a

bottle of booze on his desk. He gets up from his desk. He

has made a decision.

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR

The corridors are silent; the night lights are on, subdued.

Head Evening Nurse Mrs. Dunne is back at her desk, hunched

over paperwork. Resident Brubaker passes by.

EIGHTH FLOOR, PHARMACY

Nurse SHERLEE DEVINE, a black woman in her mid-twenties, has

a porcelain tray on the shelf onto which she puts a small

jar of alcohol, cotton swabs, a wrapped hypodermic needle

and syringe. She moves out into...

NURSES' STATION

...where Mrs. Dunne looks up as she passes.

Mrs. Dunne nods. Nurse Devine makes her way silently down

the sleeping doors to...

ROOM 806

Dark, sleeping. The bathroom light is on, but only a thin

stream of yellow light trickles through the door. THUNDER

CRASHES. William Mead sleeps fitfully. The other patient is

entirely curtained off. Nurse Devine sets her tray on Mead's

bedtable, turns on the goose-neck lamp, keeping it from his

eyes. She unwraps the hypodermic syringe, sets in the needle,

draws the required dosage, reaches over and gently shakes

Mead by the shoulder.

Mead sleeps on. Expressionlessly, Nurse Devine extracts Mead's

right arm from under the sheets, wets a swab with alcohol

and rubs down the vein. The needle slides into Mead's vein.

OVER THIS, we begin to hear a distant sibilant HISSING,

indistinct like the leakage of a bad heart. There is also an

occasional distinctly human but not quite civilized sound.

CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY to Nurse Devine withdrawing the

needle, looking up, for she too has heard the soft, strange

sounds. They emanate from behind the curtains of the other

bed. Nurse Devine returns the syringe to the tray, gathers

her things and pads silently around Mead's bed to Drummond's

bed. With her free hand, she opens the curtains a little and

stares in.

NURSE DEVINE'S P.O.V.: THE INDIAN AND BARBARA DRUMMOND BEND

OVER DRUMMOND PERFORMING SOME PAGAN RITUAL. THE HISSING IS

BARBARA'S CONTRIBUTION TO THE CEREMONY. (IT SOUNDS LIKE PIS-

PIS, AND IS IN FACT AN IMITATION OF THE NIGHTHAWK, MEANT TO

APPEASE THE SPIRIT OF THE THUNDER.)

The old Indian has stripped to the waist and marked his body

with smears of dye and tule pollen. He wears a ceremonial

hat, a sort of beaded beanie. He holds a small buckskin bag

of pollen in his cupped palms and is facing north, east,

south and west, offering the bag and prayers under his breath

as he does. A beaded amulet lies stretched across the white

sheet covering the comatose Drummond.

When Nurse Devine draws the curtains, Barbara frowns at Nurse

Devine, holds a cautioning finger to her lips and draws the

curtains closed again. Nurse Devine, carrying her porcelain

tray, exits.

EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION

Bock comes out of the elevator, jacketed now, fairly drunk

but holding it well.

He heads for the Nurses' Station as Nurse Devine comes down

the west corridor. Bock grunts at Mrs. Dunne and goes into...

PHARMACY

...where he quickly runs his finger along the second shelf

until he comes to the bottle of potassium which he filches

off the shelf and slips into his pocket. He rummages through

the drawers for a hypodermic syringe. Through the open

doorway, we see Nurse Devine making her way swiftly up to

Mrs. Dunne at the desk.

Behind Mrs. Dunne, Bock appears in the doorway to the pharmacy

where he stands listening.

Mrs. Dunne, annoyed, gets up and heads for the west corridor,

followed by Nurse Devine and by an intrigued Dr. Bock at a

few paces behind.

As the small procession bears down, Barbara Drummond slips

out of that room to intercept them.

Bock reaches for the door to the room.

Bock makes a vague noise, neither contradicting her nor

assenting, and continues around her into...

ROOM 806

As Bock slides in, a bit of the corridor light comes in with

him. The curtains have been left sufficiently open to reveal

Mr. Blacktree. He is still stripped to the waist and marked

with crosses of pollen. He extends two twigs to the four

directions after which he places the twigs carefully on the

white sheet covering Drummond in a pattern around the amulet

already there. Behind Bock, Mrs. Dunne can be seen peeking

in. The Indian is oblivious to both of them. Bock watches it

all with interest for a moment and then backs out into...

EIGHTH FLOOR CORRIDOR

...closing the door after him.

They regard each other levelly.

He wheels and clumps off for the stairway exit.

Nurse Weitzenbaum opens the door of the room and peeks in.

At the stairway exit, Bock pauses to look back at all the

women in front of Room 806.

Bock exits. Barbara edges past Weitzenbaum, who is still

peeking into the room.

ROOM 806

Barbara comes in, gathers her coat and purse from a chair

and moves to the Indian, now occupied with what seems to be

the rolling of a cigarette. The two exchange a brief dialogue

in Apache. The old Indian nods. Barbara turns and exits,

taking Nurse Weitzenbaum out with her and closing the door.

The room is dark and hushed again. Blacktree lights his

cigarette and "sends the smoke up," a ritual which consists

of puffing smoke to each of the four directions, muttering

in Apache "May all be well" after each puff.

CAMERA SLOWLY PANS to the other bed where William Mead sleeps

fitfully. The Apache words and pis-pis-pis penetrate Mead's

drugged sleep. He opens one eyelid and stares glazedly at

the dark air. The SOUNDS persist. Blacktree chooses this

moment to sidle out from behind the curtains and continue

his ritual in the less-confined space at the head of

Drummond's bed. It's quite a sight for a nervous, sedated

man to wake to.  Thunder RUMBLES and the rain SLASHES and a

sudden, savage STREAK of lightning illuminates it all.

Mead figures it's all a bad dream and, after a moment of

dully regarding the odd spectacle, closes his one eye and

goes back to sleep.

BOCK'S OFFICE, OUTER OFFICE

Barbara Drummond comes in. Bock has apparently turned the

lights on for her, but Bock himself is not immediately

visible. She looks through the half-open door to Bock's

private office, and there he is, staring blankly at the

bottle. Barbara starts to say something, thinks better of

it, lays down her coat, and looking around, spots a Manhattan

classified directory which she hauls up from its shelf and

sets on Miss Lebow's desk. She sits, quickly flips through

the pages.

Barbara flips through the directory. Bock is partially visible

in the background at his desk. He sits soddenly. Barbara

finds what she wants, opens her purse and takes out two

airplane tickets. She dials. The CLICKING of the dial catches

Bock's ear. He looks up for a moment.

REVERSE ACROSS Bock at his desk with Barbara partially visible

at Miss Lebow's desk. All he can see are her great long tanned

legs.

Bock stands a little unsteadily and moves around his desk to

get a better look at those legs.

She senses Bock watching her, turns, smiles. She's a very

beautiful girl. She returns to the phone.

She returns the receiver to its cradle. When she looks up

again, Bock is no longer there. She returns the flight tickets

to her purse, snaps it shut, stands and moves to the doorway,

enters a step into...

BOCK'S OFFICE

Bock, back at his desk, looks up.

Bock drains his glass and pours her a hefty shot of bourbon.

Barbara throws back her head and roars with laughter.

She pauses, her story over. Throughout, Bock has been trying

to keep his glowering eye on the desktop. During her long

narrative, he once seized the bottle and took a swig. Mostly

he is finding the experience murkily sensual. His glance

keeps darting out from under his brows to surreptitiously

look at the beautiful long tanned legs; or, when she bends

for the drink she set on the floor, to peer down the flapping

open scalloped neck of her dress; she is bra-less.

She, on the other hand, has been crossing and uncrossing her

legs, bending, stretching, so that her short dress has ridden

up almost to her waist and is saved from utter exhibitionism

only by the darkness of the shadows. She seems unaffected by

Bock's voyeuristic interest in her, but she is surely not

unaware of it. It is hard to believe she is not courting his

attention.

Bock looks up, and they suddenly find their eyes locked. The

dark, dense air in the room fairly steams with incipient

sexuality.

With a crash of his fist on the desktop, Bock stands; he is

in a drunken rage.

He suspects he is going to cry and turns quickly away. He

sits heavily and fights his tears.

They are both suddenly conscious of a third presence in the

room. They look to the door where Mr. Blacktree, fully clothed

again and carrying his coat, is standing in the doorway.

Barbara uncrosses her long legs and stands.

Barbara regards his hunched form and, murmuring in Apache,

she exits, closing the door. In the subsequent hush, thunder

RUMBLES and CRASHES. Wind sweeps the rain against the window

panes.

The sounds go unheeded by Bock, still as marble. Slowly, he

raises his head and sighs and then fishes about in his jacket

pockets to bring out the bottle of potassium and syringe. He

takes off his jacket, rolling up his shirtsleeve, poking

about for the vein. He removes his trouser belt, which he

ties tightly about his upper arm for a tourniquet. Now, he

tears the wrapping of the syringe and fits the needle to it.

Fiddling about in the pockets of his jacket, he finally finds

a crumpled pack of cigarettes. He lights one and returns to

the business of killing himself, puffing expressionlessly as

he does. Thunder RUMBLES and rain SLASHES. He carefully draws

just the right amount of potassium from the bottle to the

syringe, peering at the procedure against the light of his

desk lamp. He sets the cigarette on the ashtray, switches

the hypodermic to his right hand, holds his left arm rigidly

out under the light of the lamp...

He turns slowly to the doorway, his bare left arm still

rigidly extended, the belt dangling, the hypodermic clenched

in his other hand. Barbara is perfectly framed in the doorway.

He stares at her, slowly suffusing with the numb, blind,

total rage of the aborted suicide. The thunder CRASHES.

She approaches the desk affably, turns the potassium around

to read the label.

Bock's rage erupts. He crashes the hypodermic syringe down,

shattering it. The potassium puddles on the wood.

He moves around the desk, a shambling bear of a man, a leather

belt dangling dementedly from his arm, tears coursing down

his cheeks. He advances on her in a stuperous shuffle.

She regards his lumbering approach with a faint, grotesquely

sensual smile. He reaches with his naked left arm to the

neck of her dress and, with one savage wrench, rips her stark

naked, sobbing through hysterical tears.

He is on her, crushing her down into the shadows of the couch,

ravenous at her neck and shoulders in a brutish assault,

sobbing.

Throughout the scene, CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY IN through the

flesh and fury to an INTENSE TWO-SHOT of this terrified act

of love. Then slowly over Bock's plunging shoulder to the

woman's face. She gasps at the moment of penetration, then

her lovely face slowly shapes into smiling serenity. Bock

sobs; even in the shadows we can see the path of the tears

on his cheek.

ABRUPT SILENCE.

OUTSIDE THE HOSPITAL, NIGHT. 4:00 A.M.

The quiet, black streets glisten wetly in the puddles of

lamplight.

THE STEINMETZ PAVILION, TENTH FLOOR

The night shift is finishing up. THERESA CAMPANELLA, R.N., a

high-strung girl in her early twenties, stands at a water

tap holding a glass and popping some pills in her mouth. To

the room:

TENTH FLOOR CORRIDOR. NIGHT

Campanella comes out of the Dialysis room, puts on her coat

and walks to...

HOLLY PAVILION LOBBY. NIGHT

Campanella moves down the empty corridor. All the doors are

closed now; only the overhead light in the background of the

corridor glows weakly. Campanella puts a cigarette in her

mouth, pauses to look for matches; she hasn't any. Scowling

with annoyance, she continues to the lobby and stops by a

partially visible white-jacketed figure reading a newspaper.

She takes the matches, lights her cigarette, inhaling deeply,

when he suddenly sandbags her from behind. She goes down.

BOCK'S OFFICE. DAYBREAK, WEDNESDAY

Covered by Bock's overcoat, Barbara tosses and turns on the

couch in a small nightmare. Through the windows comes the

first gray wash of dawn. FULL SHOT of Barbara, awake and up

on one elbow on the verge of a scream. She looks around the

room. It is dark, empty, silent.

ACROSS Barbara looking through the door to the secretarial

office. It is likewise dark, but suddenly the lights go on

and, a moment later, Bock enters. He holds a container of

coffee in each hand and has something white draped over his

forearm. From under Bock's bulky coat, Barbara watches him

lumber to his desk, where he sets the containers of coffee

down. He drops the whitish garment over the back of a chair

and then sits. He hoists a bulging folder of correspondence

from his filing tray and hunches to work, reading. After a

moment, he regards the silent figure on the couch across the

room.

He rises, picks up the second container and white dress from

the chair. She reaches out an arm for the coffee. Bock holds

up -- a nurse's uniform.

He has perched on the edge of the couch, and she rests her

cheek against the long, bent curve of his back, smiling.

He turns to look at her, smiles back.

She sips her coffee.

They stare at each other, she in terror, he with affection.

She sets her coffee down on the couch and decides to wear

Bock's overcoat rather than use it as a cover. She searches

for the sleeves. Bock assists her.

By now she's standing, the overcoat reaching her toes. She

looks down at Bock perched on the couch.

Barbara reaches for her coffee, sips, moves around in her

tent of a coat.

This last in reference to Barbara crossing to the secretaries'

office, zippering her uniform.

BOCK'S SECRETARIES' OFFICE

She slips into her coat and exits, as Bock looks after her

thoughtfully, then turns back to his own office.

BOCK'S OFFICE

He shuffles around distractedly, not knowing how to articulate

the exuberance he feels. Suddenly, he opens the window, leans

out and bellows to the empty air.

FIRST AVENUE, CONSTRUCTION AREA. DAWN

A construction sign fills the screen. It reads ON THIS

LOCATION, THE NEW YORK MEDICAL UNIVERSITY CENTER WILL BUILD

A DRUG REHABILITATION COMMUNITY CENTER, TO BE COMPLETED IN

1973. E.F. SCHLAGER & CO., CONTRACTORS. Suddenly, the sign

comes crashing down into CAMERA. It has been wrenched off

the wooden fence protecting the row of tenements and

brownstones being demolished. About a dozen young and loud

militants have torn it down.

CAMERA PANS to show the row of houses behind the fence, two

of which have already been reduced to rubble; the others

have been boarded up. The demolition generators and cranes

are parked silently along the curb. In the dark of 5:00 A.M.,

three black families, carrying children, and children carrying

household effects, mattresses, pots, pans, bags of groceries,

etc., are repossessing the condemned buildings.

FIRST AVENUE, CONSTRUCTION AREA. DAY, 10:00 A.M.

Strong sun overhead. The street has been roped off, and police

are all over the place. A sparse crowd of a hundred or so

throng the sidestreets off First Avenue. Signs read, "People

Si, Doctors No." A Channel 11 mobile news crew, newspaper

photographers, and a radio newscaster are recording the

situation with desultory interest.

A POLICE CAPTAIN stands in the middle of the cordoned street,

bullhorning the occupiers of the condemned brownstones, who

can be seen through the broken windows.

A piece of brick arches down from the roof of a building and

cracks the street a few feet from the Captain.

HOLLY PAVILION, ENTRANCE LOBBY. DAY

A small press conference is going on in a corner of the lobby.

Reporters cluster, and TV cameras surround the Press

Representative of the Hospital, a young woman in her thirties

named EVELYN BASSEY, who is trying to read a statement,

squinting under her mod glasses at the blaze of lights set

up by the camera crews.

SUNDSTROM'S OFFICE

DR. WELBECK appears in the doorway. He's in his fifties,

gray, distinguished and very tanned with terribly, terribly

kindly old country doctor eyes. He wears a camel hair topcoat.

He smiles benignly and twinkles at Sundstrom from one of the

leather chairs across the desk from the Director.

He hangs up, sighs, turns to the man across the desk.

He exits, followed by Welbeck into the...

DIRECTOR'S SUITE, SECRETARIES' OFFICES

Buzzing now. Typewriters clicking. Phones ringing.

He and Welbeck pass out into the...

EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR

Flowing with a normal stream of traffic, Sundstrom and Welbeck

turn right and head down to the last room of the corridor.

Something comes to him, and Sundstrom pauses.

He opens the door of the staff room and strides in. Even

before he enters, we get a blast of angry voices, both male

and female. For the moment the door is ajar, we see a harried

Milton Mead being assailed by angry blacks and Puerto Ricans

and young white activist doctors.

HOSPITAL LIBRARY

There's an agitated reaction in the crowd.

A black man jumps up and points off right.

A white doctor jumps in from the left.

More murmuring. A Che Guevara -- styled revolutionary moves

toward Mead and Sundstrom at the table.

Angrily, he leans over the table facing Sundstrom.

Sundstrom raises his hands for quiet and starts to rise. The

hostile din has gotten to him.

HOLLY PAVILION, ROOM

William Mead is transferred from his bed to a rolling

stretcher by an orderly in shirt and trousers and by Nurse

Felicia Chile. Nurse Chile tucks Mead in. He opens his eyes

to look at her drowsily.

They wheel him out into...

HOLLY PAVILION, SURGICAL AREA CORRIDOR

Mead is wheeled down the corridor by the orderly. At the far

end, an anesthetized patient, blue in the harsh light, fresh

from surgery, is being wheeled into a recovery room.

Surgery is busy and efficient but not as clinically tidy as

we'd like. Linens and equipment and surgical gear are piled

into corners or on empty stretchers. Green-uniformed nurses,

doctors and orderlies go in and out of the many doors flanking

the corridor. This is the non-sterilized area, where doctors

and nurses confer in the corridors; three black orderlies

await an assignment, sit on stretchers, chuckle, mutter.

Phones can be heard RINGING. The orderly wheeling Mead turns

left into the...

SURGICAL AREA, CENTRAL PLAZA

...a small, cluttered central area with the office of the

Operating Room Nursing Supervisor on the right and the Holding

(for Anesthesia) Room on the left. The O.R. is like the

Emergency Ward, desperately busy but staffed by people grown

so accustomed to it that they display a calm, almost casual

but febrile efficiency. A large blackboard faces the

Supervisor's Office with the day's schedule of operations

neatly chalked in. It is full. A middle-aged surgeon, still

in his overcoat, is studying the schedule.

A green-uniformed NURSE swings through the glass doors from

the Operating Room area to lean into the Supervisor's Office.

The THIRD NURSE leans back into the Supervisor's Office to

relay this information.

This is apparently good news, for we hear someone saying

An orderly rumbles by with an E.K.G. machine. O.R. Nursing

Supervisor DOROTHY KIMBALL, a pleasant lady in her late

thirties, leans out of her office to speak to one of the

lounging orderlies.

The orderly detaches himself from his cronies and exits. It

is into this atmosphere of subdued febrility that William

Mead is wheeled.

Indeed, a stretcher is being wheeled out of the Holding Room.

The patient is sedated and covered. As the orderly wheels

her past CAMERA, we may recognize the pale, sleeping profile

of Miss Campanella, the nurse who had been coshed with a

sandbag not many scenes ago. A CIRCULATING NURSE comes through

the glass doors, examines the chart dangling from the

stretcher.

The orderly wheels the silent Miss Campanella off to Operating

Room Three, as Dr. Welbeck, in his natty blue suit, carrying

his camel coat, turns in from the outer corridor and examines

the blackboard. He goes back to...

OUTER CORRIDOR

...Welbeck crosses, opens a door and enters...

SURGEONS' LOCKER ROOM

All four walls are lined with lockers. Shelves and cartons

of green surgical clothes, caps, masks, trousers, shoe-

coverings. Obviously, surgeons dress for their operations

here. Two surgeons, one middle-aged and the other a young

RESIDENT, are changing. The resident turns to Welbeck on his

entrance and says:

OPERATING ROOM THREE

Just like on TV -- well, almost. The surgeon, DR. MALLORY, a

bad-tempered man in his fifties, sits on a stool with his

gloved hands wrapped in a towel, waiting for the two surgical

RESIDENTS to finish painting the operable area, which happens

to be the abdomen. It's a hysterectomy. The patient is sheeted

except for the small square of abdominal area.

The anesthesiologist, DR. CHU, injects pentathol in the I.V.

tube.

The RESIDENT ANESTHESIOLOGIST trundles over the oxygen tank,

takes the hypodermic syringe from Dr. Chu, who now applies

the oxygen mask to the enmarbled profile of the patient. He

studies the gauges and equipment around him at the head of

the operating table.

The room galvanizes into the swift, silent activity of a

chest massage. Dr. Mallory, standing and stretching in the

back of the room, turns and moves toward the off-screen

patient. He begins a vigorous rhythmic massage of the

patient's rib cage over the heart.

Dr. Mallory thumps the patient's chest hard with his fist,

and the others, likewise, go to work.

The scrub nurse is applying electrode paste to the

defibrillators. Dr. Mallory yanks the sheets and hospital

shirt off the patient and begins very rigorous massage of

the exposed ribs; we can hear one rib crack.

Dr. Chu, who has been inserting some suprel and bicarbonate

into the tube of the patient's I.V., is frowning at her rigid,

white-capped face. He leans over to check the E.K.G. readings.

Mallory straddles the patient. He's doing heavy heart massage.

Dr. Chu pushes back, the operating cap on the patient's head,

revealing jet-black hair. Mallory starts to massage again.

Dr. Chu stares blankly at the patient's face, then looks up

at the sweating surgeon, perched on the operating table,

rhythmically crushing away at the patient's rib cage.

Dr. Mallory, now pausing for a moment, looks up. He is beaded

with sweat.

He massages away. Another rib cracks.

HOLLY PAVILION, BOCK'S OFFICE

The Supervisor of Nurses, Mrs. Christie, is sitting on a

chair reading a report. Bock, now in his doctor's coat, is

hunched over his desk, hands clasped.

Mrs. Christie's electric pocket-pager BEEPS.

Miss McGuire leans in from the secretaries' office.

O.R. NURSING SUPERVISOR'S OFFICE

Crowded now. The administrative resident, Hitchcock, is here

and a uniformed man in his fifties, MR. SLOAN, the Chief of

Safety and Traffic. Sloan represents the Hospital's security

force. Mrs. Kimball is at her desk, on the phone.

She hangs up, stands, goes out into...

THE OPERATING AREA, PLAZA

...where three orderlies lounge about.

Apparently, none of these three. Mrs. Christie turns in from

the outer corridor. Normal Operating Room activity flows by:

patients wheeled to and from their various surgeries, surgeons

checking the blackboard, staff doctors, orderlies keeping

the noise level low but steady.

Hitchcock shrugs helplessly.

Mrs. Kimball, Mrs. Christie, Hitchcock and Sloan push through

the glass doors to the crossroads of the operating rooms.

Through each window, we see operating crews hacking away.

They gather in anticipation outside O.R. Three and peer over

each other's shoulders into the room where the operating

crew is hunched over the open-heart massage. The masked

circulating nurse looks up, notices the audience at the door,

and gives a hopeless shrug.

HOLLY PAVILION, THE STAFF ROOM

Milton Mead is sitting in a back seat of the Staff Room -- a

lounge with couches, easy chairs and magazine racks -- gives

half an ear to the several opinions being simultaneously

expressed by:

and by

and by

and by

During this maelstrom, the phone at Mead's elbow RINGS. Mead

answers it, listens, nods, returns the receiver, stand and

slips out of the room into the delicious silence of the...

HOLLY PAVILION, EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR

...where Hitchcock emerges from the Administration offices.

The two men move down the hall toward each other.

OPERATING ROOM THREE

Dr. Mallory is wrenching off his blood-drenched rubber gloves

and flinging them to the floor in a rage. The door to the

room opens, and Mrs. Kimball, Mrs. Christie and Mr. Sloan

enter. Dr. Mallory is stupefied with anger. Dr. Chu, blessed

with Eastern containment, blandly gathers his equipment

together, nods to Mrs. Christie.

Dr. Mallory can only stare at her numbly. He turns and stares

numbly at Mr. Sloan.

Dr. Mallory finally explodes.

Mrs. Christie stares down at the face of the dead patient on

the table, who has had her chest spread wide open so that

the organs are exposed.

HOLLY PAVILION, ROOM

William Mead's bed is empty. The Reverend Drummond's suit,

still on its hanger, is lying on it. Drummond himself lies

comatose and rigged out with I.V.s and catheters. Barbara

Drummond is packing her father's things into an open one-

suiter valise. The door opens. She looks up. It's Bock. They

look at each other -- two people in love.

He picks up the suit lying on the bed.

His eyes are caught by a white doctor's uniform hanging in

the armoire along with the suits and overcoats of the two

patients in the room. He bends over to peer at the nameplate

over the breast pocket.

He turns to her again. They both look away.

She gathers her raincoat and goes. Bock follows her out into

the...

HOLLY PAVILION, EIGHTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR

...where Dr. Joseph Lagerman, Head of Nephrology, perhaps

remembered from an earlier scene, has been waiting for Bock.

He joins them en route to the elevators.

Barbara has continued walking. Bock starts to follow her.

Bock turns back to Lagerman.

Barbara is disappearing into an elevator. Bock starts after

her, then turns back to Lagerman.

They hurry down the corridor to the elevators.

Elevator doors open. A nurse and visitor get out. Bock and

Lagerman go into...

THE ELEVATOR

Two or three people besides the elevator operator are there,

as well as a patient on a stretcher and an orderly.

The elevator stops at the seventh floor. The doors open and

Bock and Lagerman stroll into...

HOLLY PAVILION, SEVENTH FLOOR, CORRIDOR

Bock lumbers down the west corridor, turns into...

ROOM 806

William Mead, sedated and apparently zonked out cold, is

being transferred from a stretcher back into bed by an O.R.

orderly and nurse's aid. Bock rolls back the curtains around

Drummond's bed revealing the comatose patient, his face

sculptured against the white pillow, an I.V. tube in his

right arm, a catheter projecting from under the sheet. Bock

lowers the protective railing, leans in, takes the man's

pulse on his neck, raises one closed eyelid, then the other.

The pupils stare vacuously back at him; the eyelids drop

closed as soon as they are released.

In the background, the orderly and aid finish tucking in

William Mead and exit, wheeling their creaking stretcher

out. The room is shockingly silent. Bock goes to the window

and frowns in thought.

HOLD ACROSS the patient Drummond, on Bock in the background

at the window with his back to us. Suddenly, Drummond's eyes

open. He lies rigid, his eyes staring dementedly into the

air above him.

Slowly, his left hand reaches out and carefully withdraws

the catheter from his bladder, lays it on the white sheet

beside him, and silently reaches over to withdraw the I.V.

needle from his right arm. He lets the needle dangle, dripping

onto the bed. Carefully, he twists out from under his sheet,

swings his legs over the side of the bed and sits up.

REVERSE ACROSS Bock at the window, pondering. With a swift

lash of movement, the double tubes of a stethoscope are

whipped over his head and tightened around his throat.

CLOSE TWO SHOT of Bock being strangled, Drummond's face frozen

in bland dementia behind him.

Drummond pauses in his strangling and, releasing the poor

man altogether, turns to his daughter in the doorway.

CAMERA DOLLIES to include all three -- Bock recuperating;

Drummond staring madly; and Barbara infuriated with her

father.

Drummond, abashed, stands there, a scolded schoolboy, a

rawboned figure in a hospital shift, a stethoscope dangling

from his right hand.

ROOM 806. MORNING. (FLASHBACK)

A cheerless, gray sunlight fills the room as the fragile,

white-haired and bearded old Guernsey (whose admittance to

the hospital was the opening scene of the film) is being

helped into the room by Nurse Felicia Chile. She solicitously

helps the wispy old man off with his coat and jacket and hat

which she puts in the armoire. With palsied fingers, the

little old man unknots his stringy tie and unbuttons the

collar, which is three sizes too large. In the other bed,

Drummond's eyes slowly open.

The old man is slipping out of his clothes to expose a thin

little body in a torn nightshirt.

The old man sits back, wheezing a little. Nurse Chile smiles

nicely at him and takes her leave. For a moment, Drummond

lies rigidly on his bed, staring dully into the air and the

old man sits with his hunched back to us. The room is silent

except for his rheumy wheeze.

After a moment, the old man rises and goes to the washbasin

and, with some wheezing, spits into it. He shuffles back to

bed. Dr. Schaefer comes into the room with a professional

smile and the patient Guernsey's chart.

Schaefer perches on the bed beside Guernsey and begins to

take his history.

CLOSE-UP of Drummond in deep shadow shows him sleeping.

ROOM 806. NIGHT, 7:00 P.M.

The room is lit only by the yellow light from the half-opened

bathroom door. Guernsey walks out of the shadows, hands

raised. He shuffles to Drummond's bedside and looks down on

him from his frail height.

Drummond's eyes open and roll to the direction of the voice.

DRUMMOND'S P.O.V.: Guernsey, dressed only in his hospital

shift, is shuffling up and down the aisle of the room, hands

clasped behind his back like a Mittel-European intellectual,

head hunched forward -- a little old man with a white beard

talking to himself.

Guernsey closes his eyes in religious ecstacy.

Drummond starts to sob and slowly sits up in his bed, imbued

with belief. He looks mutely up at the frail old man, who

now raises his right hand and his face is transfigured into

vast majesty.

So saying, he reverts to the little old man he was, wheezing

a bit, and with some effort, climbs back on his bed and lies

there, eyes closed. His thin, high nose projects from the

whiteness of his face. He sighs the rattling last sigh of

life and dies. CAMERA DOLLIES slowly to CLOSE-UP of Drummond

lying motionless on his bed. His eyes are wide, glinting in

the shadows, a man imbued. His cheeks are wet with tears of

exaltation.

FULL SHOT of Drummond. He raises his left hand, flexing his

fingers. Then he moves his other arm, his head, his shoulders.

Obviously, he is regaining his faculties.

ACROSS Drummond to the now empty other bed. All the lights

are on. PAN on Nurse Penny Canduso and an orderly wheeling

away the wrapped body of Guernsey. Intern Schaefer, at the

door, considers the empty bed with interest. Moving to the

bedtable, he picks up the receiver of the phone.

ROOM 806. NIGHT

REPRISE the scene originally played UNDER CREDITS where Dr.

Schaefer and his girlfriend Sheila sneak into the room and

undress. Giggles and shushings, gooses and fondles.

During the replay, however, an additional segment is added.

At one point, the girl, hanging her dress in the armoire,

turns and holds something up.

They head for the unoccupied bed. CLOSE-UP on Drummond's

profile.

ROOM 806

Dark, hushed. Schaefer's girl is leaving; she tiptoes to the

door, peeks out. Apparently, the coast is clear. She quickly

slips out.

ROOM 806. DAY

Drummond on his chair. Barbara perched on one side of her

father's bed, Bock on the other. William Mead sleeps on.

EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, LOBBY. DAY

The usual E.R. crush and motion goes on in the background.

Drummond escorts an obviously ill Dr. Ives to the Admitting

Room. Drummond's voice under the narration explains matters

to Miss Aronovici at the desk.

They go into the...

EMERGENCY ADMITTING AND TREATMENT ROOMS

Ives, seated on a table in evident distress, breathes heavily.

An attendant takes his pulse, pressure and respiration. Ives

collapses.

PAN SLOWLY across the Emergency Room to catch its state of

contained febrility. Every curtained treatment room is

occupied, including the storage room in the back. The triage

nurse and a second nurse behind the desk are busy on the

phones. The triage nurse takes the history of the first in a

line of five people seeking admission even as she answers

her phone.

We watch Miss Aronovici and the other nurse and Dr. Spezio

and his two interns, the two attendants -- all busy with one

patient or another.

ACROSS Drummond, white-uniformed, standing in the back against

the filing cabinets and linens, watching the the new patients

trickle and crowd in.

At the Admitting Desk, a MAN in his forties is being signed

in by a uniformed cop.

CAMERA JUST STARES at the pageant of pain.

EMERGENCY ROOM AREA, LOBBY

Looking to the street doors as two ambulance attendants,

bearing a seventeen-year-old black girl on a stretcher, burst

in.

They hurry into the Admitting Room past a nurse and into

the...

EMERGENCY ADMITTING AND TREATMENT ROOMS

...which is already galvanized into action. Miss Aronovici

is at the girl's pulse even as she is being transferred to

the bed that has just been cleared of Mr. Mitgang and his

concussion case.

On screen we continue watching the scene of the overdose

case treatment, as the live-action sound in the room fades

behind Drummond's tale.

REACTION SHOT of Drummond staring at this ceaseless panorama

of pain, tears streaking down his cheeks.

Drummond turns to the voice. CAMERA PULLS BACK to include

the man who had been brought into the E.R. by a uniformed

cop.

PAN SLOWLY to Drummond who stares at the Nameless Man.

In BACKGROUND the door opens and Mrs. Cushing, the lady from

accounting, enters. She calls out in her annoying voice from

a chart.

RETURN FROM FLASHBACK:

ROOM 806. DAY

Drummond in his hospital shift, gaunt and mad as a prophet,

sits rigidly on his chair. Barbara perches on her father's

bed. Bock wanders disorientedly about the room, staring

incredulously first at Barbara and then at her father.

Bock holds Drummond's coat and hat and crosses to take his

arm. He finds the entranced Drummond as rigid as a statue.

They both hurry out of the room. Drummond remains enmarbled

in his trance. CAMERA SUDDENLY MOVES DOWN to William Mead,

whose eyes now open; he has heard it all. In background,

Drummond, suddenly released from his catatonic trance, heads

for the armoire and extracts the white trousers of Dr.

Schaefer's uniform. He puts them on, tucking in the tails of

his hospital shift. He notices William Mead staring at him.

William Mead just stares at Drummond.

EIGHTH FLOOR, NURSES' STATION AND LOBBY AREA

Bock and Barbara come hurrying around the corner from the

west corridor. Barbara heads for the elevators. Bock heads

for the Nurses' Station. The Eighth Floor is going about its

normal 1:15 P.M. activity. Mrs. Donovan is at her desk on

the phone.

A nurse's aid, a bathrobed patient and two of his visitors

stroll by. It's the end of the lunch hour, when the kitchen

workers bring used trays back.

Bock moves past Mrs. Donovan and into the pharmacy where we

see him scouring the shelves for thorazine and a syringe. An

elevator arrives, disgorging Milton Mead and his resident

assistant, Thomas Hitchcock and, of all people, Dr. Richard

Welbeck himself. Barbara and Dr. Biegelman go into the

elevator. The doors close. Milton Mead and Hitchcock head

for the west corridor. Welbeck, in his natty double-breasted

suit and carrying his cashmere coat, heads straight for the

Nurses' Station.

Bock immediately emerges from the pharmacy holding a bottle

of thorazine and a wrapped hypodermic syringe. He scowls at

Welbeck, who scowls back.

He starts to pass Mrs. Donovan and would continue, but Welbeck

lays a restraining hand on his arm.

Welbeck's pocket-beeper BEEPS.

Bock turns and heads back for...

EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR

...and down that through the kitchen workers and strolling

patients to...

ROOM 806

...which he enters. He is startled to find Milton Mead and

Hitchcock leaning over William Mead, who is up on one elbow

and in a state.

Indeed, there is no Drummond to be seen. His bed is empty.

Bock nods to Milton Mead and Hitchcock, who nod back, and

crosses quickly to look into the bathroom which is likewise

empty.

Milton Mead's pocket-beeper BEEPS. Milton Mead reaches for

the phone.

The door slams.

WEST CORRIDOR AND NURSES' STATION

Bock and Milton Mead stride up the corridor through the linen

wagons and kitchen carts.

He waves his hand helplessly to indicate the utter incredulity

of it all.

They reach an open elevator. Mead goes in, the doors close.

The doors of a second elevator then open, and Barbara comes

out. She and Bock stare at each other. In background, Welbeck

is on the phone at the Nurses' Station.

REVERSE ACROSS Welbeck on phone at Nurses' Station. In the

background, Bock and Barbara stare at him.

He hangs up.

He strides off angrily, followed by an anxious Bock and

Barbara, for the...

EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR

Bock and Barbara hurry along in Welbeck's wake.

He wrenches open the door of 806, marches in, followed by

Bock and Barbara.

EIGHTH FLOOR, ROOM

Welbeck advances on William Mead's bed, since he is the only

patient in the room. (Hitchcock is on the phone.)

William Mead stares dully at Welbeck. Then he looks dully at

Bock.

The phone now BUZZES. Welbeck and Hitchcock both head for

it.

William Mead is painfully trying to get off his bed.

Hitchcock, satisfied the call is not for him, exits.

The phone slips from his fingers. He turns to stare at Bock

and Barbara.

He keels over like a felled tree, falling face-up on

Drummond's bed, his legs dangling to the floor. William Mead

promptly hides his head under his sheet.

Bock moves quickly to the prostrate Welbeck, feels his throat

for the carotid pulse, pulls out his stethoscope, rips

Welbeck's shirt open, and listens for heartsounds. He picks

up the dangling telephone receiver, gets a dial tone.

Barbara strips off her coat. She is still in nurse's uniform.

She leans into the hall and calls a passing nurse.

Barbara helps Bock get Welbeck's dead weight onto the floor.

On his knees, Bock straddles Welbeck's prone form, balls his

fist and belts Welbeck on his chest. He begins intensive

heart massage. Barbara gets down on her knees, opens Welbeck's

mouth and commences mouth-to-mouth resuscitation. In the

background, the P.A. system blandly echoes:

Mrs. Donovan and aides move C.A.C. into the room, immediately

followed by Intern Chandler rushing past them.

William Mead, of course, is still huddled under his sheet.

He peers out from under his covers in wide-eyed disbelief

and ducks under again. Bock massages Welbeck's heart. Barbara

continues mouth-to-mouth. Nurse Felicia Chile hurries in,

pushing the emergency cart before her.

Nurse Chile has shunted the emergency cart aside to let the

bed out and is extracting an ambu bag and tube from the cart's

lower shelf.

Nurse Chile hands the Berman airway and ambu bag to Barbara,

who inserts the airway and the ambu tube into Welbeck's mouth

and pumps in air by hand. Bock massages away.

EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR

Mrs. Donovan and Intern Chandler finally get Mead and his

bed out into the corridor where they park it. In background,

emergency activity on all sides. The resident cardiologist,

DR. GEOFFREY MORSE, and anesthesiologist, DR. LAWRENCE LOOMIS,

both thirty-three, come hurtling around the corner.

She follows Morse in as, from the lobby corner, two

technicians come racing a max cart and an I.V. stand before

them. Behind them, a bewildered Hitchcock moves into view,

trying to determine what's going on.

Hitchcock looks down at the sheeted figure hunched on the

bed parked in the hallway and slowly pulls the sheet off his

head. William Mead stares up at him like a hunted animal.

Hitchcock covers Mead's head again.

ROOM 806

Bock still massages, sweating bullets by now. Barbara works

the ambu bag. Dr. Morse is feeling Welbeck's groin for his

femoral pulse.

If we can see anything of Welbeck through other bodies, we

notice almost all his clothes have been ripped off his body.

Dr. Loomis replaces Barbara.

The two nursing supervisors have been getting the max cart

ready, snapping up the gateleg-footrest and attaching the

I.V. tube to the oxygen jar, and that to the ambu bag.

Drs. Loomis, Bock and Morse struggle to lift the the nearly

naked dead weight of Dr. Welbeck up from the floor and onto

the max cart. Dr. Morse has picked up Drummond's chart from

the bed where Welbeck had left it.

CLOSE-UP of Bock trying to hoist Welbeck and looking up

slowly.

Bock cocks his head to him.

Bock looks across to Barbara, now helping out at the max

cart. She looks back at Bock. She shrugs. He shrugs. They

exchange a smile.

Straining under the effort, the three doctors get Welbeck

off the floor.

Mrs. Donovan exits into...

EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR

...as Mrs. Donovan comes out, Hitchcock turns to her.

Hitchcock silently thanks God.

ROOM 806

Welbeck's body is finally on the max cart. Nurses and doctors

converge on him. Dr. Loomis sets about intubating Welbeck,

and the Nursing Supervisor begins clamping the metal bands

of the E.K.G. machine on each of Welbeck's extremities.

While all this goes on, Bock and Barbara have picked up the

remnants of Welbeck's jacket, trousers, shirt and underwear.

Dr. Morse is squatting by the max-cart reading the E.K.G.

script as it rolls slowly out of the cart.

The Nursing Supervisor starts applying electrode paste to

the defibrillating paddles. Another nurse measures off an

ampule of bicarbonate of soda which Dr. Loomis injects into

the I.V. tube.

Barbara unsnaps her father's valise and stuffs Welbeck's

garments in it. Bock takes Welbeck's coat and piles Drummond's

things on top of that.

The Nursing Supervisor hands Dr. Morse the defibrillating

paddles to place on Welbeck's left breast.

All back away from the max-cart. Bock and Barbara are at the

window, piled up with valise and coats; they look like they're

off for Europe.

He pushes the defibrillating button, sending an electric

shock through Welbeck's body so as to bounce it into the

air.

Bock and Barbara remain at the window with heart-resuscitation

team in background. Barbara slips into her own coat, in

preparation for escape.

Bock is staring out the window. Barbara stares out with him.

THEIR P.O.V.: looking down onto the U-shaped drive of the

entrance plaza of the hospital and First Avenue full of

traffic. A band of some fifty black and Puerto Rican youths,

including females and young white revolutionaries, most in

Che Guevara garb, have broken past the security guards at

the gates and spill across the drive. Some policemen and

security guards move tentatively out of the hospital to

intercept them.

The shouting can't be heard from up here. Off-screen we hear

the activities of the resuscitation team.

SOUND of the shock.

FIRST AVENUE. HIGH SHOT

Low crowd noises. Bock looks out the window at the protesting

mob below.

CAMERA PANS SLOWLY UP over the melee in the plaza to the

fence. Barbara and Bock stare down at the crowd.

ZOOM DOWN into the maelstrom to FULL SHOT of the Reverend

Drummond dressed in Schaefer's white uniform, standing on

the slim island separating the uptown traffic from the

downtown traffic. Drummond is a private island of his own,

hands stretched to the skies. He is prophesying.

ROOM 806

Bock and Barbara slip through doctors and nurses, heading

for the door.

Bock, carrying two overcoats, and Barbara, wearing hers and

carrying her father's valise, exit into...

EIGHTH FLOOR, WEST CORRIDOR

...as Bock and Barbara come out, the activity is normal,

with the exception of William Mead's bed along the wall.

Hitchcock and two overcoated men are in the hallway, and

Hitchcock hurries to Bock.

Bock and Barbara hurry toward the elevators.

THE HOSPITAL, HOLLY PAVILION, LOBBY

The small army of militants and activists has broken through

the security into the lobby. Their entrance is greeted by

one small scream from a woman in the lobby. A LEADER of the

invading troop calls out.

Others in the troop shout reassurances, but it doesn't really

reassure anybody. The lady in the gift shop closes her door

and locks up. People crowd in a solid block in the doorway

to the coffee shop to see what's going on.

From the long tunnels of corridors, nurses, doctors,

administrative personnel pause in their chores and errands

and missions to watch the tide of events in the lobby.

HOLLY PAVILION, EXECUTIVE CORRIDOR

The exit door is wrenched open, and Bock comes hurtling into

the carpeted executive corridor toward the lobby, and at

that moment the troop of militants come rumbling in from the

other end. Every door of the corridor fills with secretaries

and administrators unsure of what's happening. Then, Sundstrom

elbows his way through the clutch of secretaries in his

doorway and comes into the corridor. He regards the militants

moving down the corridor toward him.

In the background, one of their fellow revolutionaries speaks

up...

...but he's shut up by the Leader.

Ambler, the medical student we met during Bock's teaching

rounds, pushes in front of the Leader to face Sundstrom.

As the shouts continue, Sundstrom raises a hand to quiet the

crowd.

Eyes filled with tears of rage, Sundstrom lowers his head

and moves into the mass of militants, which parts for him to

leave.

The mass engulfs Sundstrom, moving back out into the lobby

with him, pushing him, shoving him, humiliating him.

REACTION SHOT of Bock watching it all from the far end of

the corridor. He closes his eyes and the pain of watching

all this shows on his face. He opens his eyes. The corridor

is now silent and empty. He hurries to...

HOLLY PAVILION, THE LOBBY

Bock rushes in, as the milling throng dissolves into the

bystanders, security police and city cops. Common sense has

settled in and the general tenor is to avoid any further

trouble. We can hear the rhythmic patter of cops.

Bock elbows his way through the throng as it drifts toward

the doors to...

THE HOSPITAL, ENTRANCE PLAZA. DAY

...and goes through the gathering police. A mobile TV camera

crew and a few reporters are hurrying up through the gates

from First Avenue.

FIRST AVENUE. DAY

The Reverend Drummond stands, a solitary human island, among

the shrill ROAR of the city. The protesters protest endlessly,

CHANTING, SHOUTING. Absolutely no one pays any attention to

the gaunt, doctor-clad sixty-year-old man standing on an

island.

Except, of course, for Bock, who must pause to wait for a

red light. Bock hustles through the traffic to where Drummond

stands.

The ambulance pulls up and Barbara gets out of it.

The light turns green. The traffic starts flowing around

them, disjoined by the ambulance blocking one lane on each

side of the dividing island. An ambulance attendant has opened

the back doors to get Drummond in. Barbara hurries toward

the front, climbs in, holds the door open for Bock. He stands

a few paces back.

He turns, and the ambulance pulls away. Bock goes back to

the sidewalk where he meets Sundstrom, now wearing his coat.

They make their way back toward...

THE HOSPITAL, ENTRANCE PLAZA

The two physicians trudge across the U-drive.

