BLACKNESS.

There is a gunshot. A crow screams. A fluttering of wings.

FADE IN:

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Bird's-eye view. We circle lazily above the forest.

Through a break in the trees, we catch an occasional glimpse

of a prostrate form on the ground. As the circling camera

gets closer we see that the form is a human body.

EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF LILA TALKING TO THE CAMERA

A bead of sweat trickles down her cheek. Then: a blinding

flash of light obliterates her face.

EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF PUFF TALKING TO THE CAMERA

A tear wells in Puff's eye and runs down his face. Another

blinding flash of light.

EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF NATHAN TALKING TO THE CAMERA

As Nathan speaks, a trickle of blood drips down his face

from his out-of-frame forehead. Another blinding flash of

light.

EXT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

It's a frenetic hand-held shot as Lila is pulled from a police

car and dragged into the precinct house. Cameras flash.

Reporters shout questions. Lila attempts to shield her face

from view, but she is handcuffed and can only manage to hunch

her shoulders.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

A ratty interrogation room. Institutional green walls.

Beat-up file cabinets. Dark. A bit of fluorescent light spills

in through the frosted glass door. Lila, thirties, sits at

the end of a long table. A reel-to-reel tape recorder whirs

in front of her. She is smoking. Three fat, mean-looking

cops sit in shadows at the other end of the table. One of

the cops eyes her lasciviously. Lila's hand shakes as she

brings the cigarette to her mouth.

One of the cops sighs and massages the bridge of his nose.

It's going to be a long night.

The lascivious cop smiles lasciviously at Lila's reference

to "human body."

The lascivious cop gags, then vomits on the floor. Lila drags

on her cigarette, calmer now.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff, thirties, dirty, scraggly hair and beard but in a crisp

business suit, testifies before a congressional committee.

The auditorium is filled with reporters and spectators. Puff

sits in front of a microphone, counsel at his side. He pours

himself a glass of water, drinks, clears his throat, then

speaks: stentorian, confident.

This is a revelation to the assembled crowd. People whisper

to each other.

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan, thirties, in a white robe, sits alone at a white

table. Everything is white except for an oozing bullet wound

in Nathan's temple.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila watches the slowly churning tape recorder reels, fixated.

The cop who vomited is mopping it up. The other two are

sipping coffee. Lila talks.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

It's got that faded, "memory" look. Twelve year old Lila

hurries home from school, books clutched to her chest.

Other kids walk along the street in pairs or groups, laughing

and chatting. Lila walks alone, a worried scowl on her face.

INT. LITTLE GIRL'S ROOM - DAY

Colors are still muted. It looks to be somewhere in the early

70's based on the preponderance of Bay City Rollers posters

on the wall. Twelve year old Lila enters the room, closes

the door, locks it, rattles the doorknob to make sure that

the door is really locked. She draws the shades. She pulls

some t-shirts from her dresser drawer and stuffs them into

the space between the bottom of the door and the floor.

Lila stands nervously in front of the full-length mirror on

her closet door. She takes a deep breath and begins to

unbutton her shirt, watching herself carefully in the mirror.

Lila's shirt is now unbuttoned. She pulls it open. She is

wearing a training bra over the very beginning of breast

buds. On the chest above the bra, and on her stomach below

it, is hair. Dark curly hair. She stares at it, touches it

cautiously. Then she starts to cry. She crouches into a ball

and weeps.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

Old fashioned office. Twelve year old Lila sits on the

examination table, her shirt off. An elderly male doctor

touches the hair, fingers it. Her mother looks on.

Young Lila turns to the camera.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The cop who vomited, gags again. Lila stares at him. Her

face is hard, blank. She stubs out her cigarette.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies before the committee.

EXT. FOREST CLEARING - DAY.

This has a faded, "memory" look also. A naked, bearded, dirty

middle-aged man and a naked, dirty ten year old Puff walk

along like apes, crouched over and dragging their knuckles.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

It's raining and deserted. Puff's father, in pajamas, comes

tearing around the corner. He runs crazily towards the camera,

waving his arms, puffing out his cheeks.

Puff's father passes a newspaper vending machine, stops,

goes back and examines the headline. It reads: President

Kennedy Assassinated. Puff's father looks heavenward and

clutches at his temples in despair.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - NIGHT

Puff's father climbs out a second story window with a small

bundle in his arms. He runs off into the night.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff looks pointedly at the congressman.

The congressmen are shamed: they look down, they take notes,

they mumble instructions to the assistants seated behind

them.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

An adult Puff and his now older father sit on the forest

floor and pick bugs off each other and eat them.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies.

Puff holds up an illustration of a pygmy chimp. Several

reporters run from the room: a scoop!

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan talks to nobody in particular.

EXT. ZOO - DAY

Faded colors. Ten year old Nathan in a bow tie and shortpanted

suit walks along with his uptight, British parents.

They arrive at the ape pen. Nathan is excited. He jumps up

and down. The apes jump up and down also.

There is a commotion off screen. Two uniformed attendants

drag Puff's father, straitjacketed and kicking and screaming

like an ape, past Nathan and his parents.

Nathan, his father, and the other zoo patrons look on

curiously, a little frightened. Nathan's mother chooses to

ignore it.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila lights a new cigarette with her spent one. She drags.

INT. COLLEGE DORM BATHROOM - DAY

Stockings hang over the shower curtain rod. The window shade

is drawn. Towels are stuffed in the space under the door. A

twenty year old naked Lila is covered with shaving cream,

face to feet. She is shaving. There is a pounding on the

door.

The door opens. Lila freezes.

Lila is mortified.

INT. DORM ROOM - A BIT LATER

Lila is sitting in her bathrobe on her bed and staring out

the window. There is a bit of shaving cream behind her ear.

Her roommate runs back and forth getting ready for her date.

The door slams. Lila hugs her knees to her chest.

INT. ART MUSEUM - DAY

Twelve year old Lila walks sadly through an art museum. she

looks at various old portraits of men. She studies their

facial hair. When she turns a corner, she is shocked to see

a large Renaissance painting of a naked woman entirely covered

with fur. She hurries to it. She looks at the placard next

to the painting. It is a painting of Mary Magdalene.

INT. CONVENT - DAY

Lila, in a nun's habit, is on her knees praying.

EXT. FIELD - NIGHT

A bunch of naked women dance and chat around a campfire.

Lila is there, pretty hairy. So are many of the other women.

INT. TENT - DAY

Lila, in a full beard, sits on a throne before a crowd of

gawking, dumb-looking, mouth-breathing children. Next to her

on a separate stage is a sour-looking, middle-aged midget

man sitting on a throne, staring blankly into space.

INT. TENT - DAY

Lila, in a Santa suit, with beard sprayed white, sits on a

throne in front of a crowd of gawking, dumb-looking, mouth-

breathing children. One of them is on her lap. Next to her

sits the sour midget, dressed in an elf suit.

The kid pulls Lila's beard.

EXT. CITY STREET - NIGHT

Lila walks home. She's wrapped in winter clothing, but we

can still see a bit of her white beard. It's snowing. The

street is deserted. She spots a lighted window, she peers

in. It's a warm family scene. Large group of chatting,

laughing people. Fire in the fireplace. Big turkey on the

table.

Lila looks down the street and sees dozens of lonely-looking

people peering forlornly in warmly lit windows. Some on

ladders to peer in second-floor windows. Lila sighs.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

The room is lit with candles. Lila finishes shaving herself

all over. Then she takes the double-edged blade out of the

razor and climbs into the a bathtub filled with warm water.

She is about to slice her wrists.

On the shelf next to the tub a little gray mouse watches her

intently. At first she is startled, but then she and the

creature seem to be communing. His little black beady eyes

reflect the light. Lila starts to cry. She puts down the

blade.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila wipes a tear from her eye.

The cops look up, on the spot. It seems their minds were

elsewhere.

Lila sighs.

EXT. FOREST - EARLY MORNING

We see a tent in a clearing. A smoking campfire. There is a

rustling inside the tent. Lila steps out naked. She is covered

with fur. She pours a cup of coffee, and stands, comfortable

in her skin, watching the world around her.

Squirrels jump from tree to tree, birds look down at her.

She smiles.

Lila picks up a pad and pen from a rock, sits on the rock

and writes.

INT. BEAUTY PARLOR - DAY

A woman under a hair drier reads a book intently. We see the

first sentence of the chapter: "Last night I almost died on

this mountain top." We hear Lila's dramatic reading competing

with the very loud sound of the hair drier.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

There is a violent, violent storm. The hair drier drone has

turned into the explosive noise of rain beating down in sheets

and wind howling at fifty miles an hour. Branches crack.

Lila's tent blows over, revealing her huddled there with a

sleeping bag wrapped around her like a blanket.

Lightning hits a tree nearby. It falls with a smack

practically on top of Lila. She screams, then defiantly

stands, throwing off the sleeping bag. The wind and rain

whip her hair around her head. She laughs with amazing gusto

and raise her arms like a runner winning a marathon.

EXT. BOOK STORE WINDOW - DAY

We see many copies of a book entitled "Wind in my Hair" by

Lila Jute.

INT. BEAUTY PARLOR - DAY

We see a woman under a hair drier reading "Wind in my Hair".

We pull back to see that a long row of women under hair driers

are reading Lila's book. They all stand defiantly, proudly,

knocking their hair driers up and back as they do.

The blowing hair driers whip the women's wet hair around

their heads. The blowing hair drier drone is unbearably loud.

EXT. BOOKSTORE WINDOW - DAY

A big display of the book "Fuck Humanity" by Lila Jute. A

long line of women with beautifully coiffured hair snakes

out of the store.

INT. LOG HOUSE - DAY

Lila lies in bed tapping on a lap top. A dog lies with her

and licks her knee. She seems to enjoy it, and gets lost in

a reverie. The dog morphs into a handsome man, kissing her

knee and working his way up her thigh and under her nightgown.

Lila is getting seriously hot and bothered. Her head lolls.

But the reverie dissipates and the man turns back into a dog

rooting around her crotch with his cold nose. She pushes him

away. The dejected dog gets off the bed.

Lila gets out of bed and studies herself in the mirror. She

brushes her hands against her hairy body.

The mirror image of Lila shimmers and turns into Lila with

no body hair. Lila all made-up and with a smart new hairstyle.

She assumes a coquettish pose and smiles cutely at herself.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila talks. One of the cops is doodling. One is picking wax

from his ear with a pencil. One is reading a paperback novel

under the table.

The cops look up.

INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Lila lies shirtless on a table while Rose, her fifty year

old electrologist, works on her back.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

It's a chi-chi place. Lila sits at a table with Nathan,

fastidious in dress and manner. There is an awkward firstdate

silence. She sneaks a glance at his crotch. Then:

Nathan blushes. Lila stares at him for a long moment. Her

thoughts are unreadable.

INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Lila lies on her back. Rose works on her breasts.

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan talks.

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

It is another sepia scene. Nathan as a ten year old sits at

the table with his parents. There is a bowl of salad in front

of each of them. Everyone's head is bowed in prayer.

Eyes open, and young Nathan reaches for a fork to eat the

salad. He grabs the wrong fork. Mother's eyes widen in horror.

Nathan looks up.

INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Adult Nathan sits on the couch, dabbing at his eyes.

Wendall, his therapist sits across from him and writes

something in his notebook.

Nathan thinks long and hard about this. He seems to be really

straining, squinting his eyes. Finally:

Wendall nods and scribbles something on his pad.

Wendall looks up.

INT. LAB - DAY

Everything's white. People in lab coats hustle back and forth.

Nathan, also in a lab coat, is hovering over a Lucite

encasement. Inside we see two white mice, both attached to

electrodes. They sit in little chairs at a little table. In

front of each of them is a little plate of salad and three

forks of varying size under Lucite domes.

Nathan nods to his pretty French assistant, Gabrielle, who

presses a button. The Lucite domes over the salads lift.

Tentatively both mice reach for a fork. There is a tiny piece

of velcro on each mouse's paw and a tiny piece of velcro on

each of the forks. The first mouse picks the correct fork,

and stabs it into the salad and eats happily, relieved. The

second mouse picks the wrong fork. Nathan presses a button,

which sends the mouse flying off his chair with an electric

shock. The correct mouse keeps eating, unconcerned. Nathan

makes a note in his notebook.

Gabrielle watches Nathan as he writes, enchanted.

INT. NATHAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The table is elegantly set, candlelit. Lila sits at it while

Nathan fusses in the kitchenette. Something classical wafts

over from the stereo in the living room. Nathan places a

salad in front of Lila and sits across from her with his own

salad.

Lila picks up a fork from the inside of her setting, not the

outside. Nathan blinks. Lila tastes the salad.

There is a long silence as they both eat the salad.

Nathan pounds his forehead with his fist. Lila waves her

hand to indicate that it's fine. She doesn't say anything

because she's chewing.

Lila takes a deep breath, about to go into it, thinks better

of it.

Nathan smiles, relieved. Lila smiles back. Nathan recoils

slightly, skittishly half-points to his bared teeth.

Apparently there's a piece of food stuck in Lila's teeth.

She closes her mouth, runs her tongue over her teeth, smiles

again, mouth closed.

INT. ELECTROLOGIST'S OFFICE -DAY

Rose is doing Lila's feet.

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan talks.

Nathan looks around for some sign of another person. There

is nobody.

INT. NATHAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nathan, Lila, and Nathan's parents (looking very, very old)

sit at the dining room table. Salad is about to be eaten,

and everyone glances sideways over at Lila, waiting for her

to make her move. She reaches for the wrong fork, corrects

herself and picks the salad fork. Nathan breathes a sigh of

relief. His mother looks disappointed, clucks. They eat in

silence. Finally:

His mother and father touch their faces reflexively, then

look at each other and laugh.

The mother and father laugh again. Then they pull at their

latex faces. The wrinkles come off. And they look exactly as

they did in the flashback scene, albeit a bit pink-faced.

There is another pause.

The father and Nathan laugh at mother's joke. Lila joins in

weakly, against her better judgment.

Lila hesitates.

INT. NATHAN AND LILA'S BEDROOM - LATER

Nathan is in bed, in starched pajamas. He lies on his back

under perfect covers and stares straight up at the ceiling.

Lila emerges from the bathroom, radiant, hopeful.

Lila happily leaps into bed. She smothers Nathan with kisses.

Nathan kisses her.

Nathan kisses her ear. He looks confused, sticks his finger

behind her ear, and pulls it out with a dab of shaving cream

on it.

INT. CAR - MORNING

Nathan drives. He's dressed in spanking new, freshly starched

safari clothes, big shiny new hiking boots. Lila sits in the

front passenger seat. She is dressed in a costume identical

to Nathan's, but, as opposed to Nathan, she seems awkward in

it. She fidgets in it, straightens it, sighs, comes to terms

with it, and looks dreamily out the window at the passing

trees. She is home. That's all that matters.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Puff's POV: Through some brush we watch Nathan and Lila

hiking. We hear Puff's loud heavy breathing and, in the

distance, the relentless gibberish chatter of Nathan and

Lila. Puff moves. Lila glances over.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila talks.

INT. FOREST - DAY

We're with Lila and Nathan now. Lila has stopped and is

peering into the distance.

Lila walks in the direction of the sighting.

Lila trudges through the brush. Nathan follows. Better than

being left behind.

Lila is in her element. Her whole demeanor has changed.

She is tracking. She sniffs the breeze, cocks her head, moves

stealthily. Then she sheds her clothes, almost shaking them

off, like a dog shaking off some cute costume his owner had

dressed him in.

Lila turns her head and glares at Nathan. There is an animal

fierceness in her eye that shuts him up instantly.

She turns back to pursue her prey.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Puff's POV: We see a naked Lila looking in our general

direction, but not seeing us. The sun dapples her body.

She moves closer and closer.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

The cops are transfixed.

INT. FOREST - DAY

We are with Lila. She creeps along, when suddenly a tan,

muscular figure tears out from behind a tree and runs,

practically on all fours, through the dense underbrush.

Lila follows, almost as agile as the forest creature.

Nathan just stands there. The chase continues. There is a

great deal of heaving and panting. Puff shimmies up a large

tree. Lila follows. Puff leaps from branch to branch.

Lila follows easily. Puff swings from a vine. So does Lila.

Finally they come to the end of the trees, a clearing. There

is no nowhere for Puff to leap. Lila is with him in the tree.

They are crouched, bloody, heaving, on separate branches,

staring at each other. After a long moment, Lila speaks.

Puff cocks his head. The high timbre of her voice surprises

him, pleases him, but he doesn't understand the words.

Puff looks at his crotch. Apparently there is some activity

down there. Lila, following his eyes, glances down there

also.

Puff grabs for his crotch and begins to play with himself

distractedly, looking at her all the while. He falls out of

the tree. Lila gasps. Branches crack and snap as he passes

through them and then there is an unpleasant thud when he

hits the forest floor. Lila shimmies down the tree, and kneels

by Puff. He is unconscious.

Nathan comes limping through the brush. Somehow his safari

suit and boots are as clean and pressed as they were in the

car. He is carrying Lila's clothes. Somehow he has had time

to neatly fold them.

Lila looks up at icily at Nathan.

Lila looks off into the distance, her eyes brimming with

tears. As Nathan continues his speech, we move closer and

closer into Lila's eyes. Nathan's voice fades into nothing

by the time we dissolve.

EXT. CLIFF - SUNSET

A naked, very hairy Lila sits by herself on the cliff and

watches the sunset. There's a chill in the air and she shivers

and hugs herself.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Lila is hovering over the unconscious Puff. Nathan's voice

comes back into focus. He is still speechifying.

INT. LAB - DAY

Nathan hovers over the Lucite case with the tiny dinner table

in it. His assistant, Gabrielle, presses a button, a door

opens, and two white mice scurry in. The male pulls out a

chair for the female. The female climbs up on the chair, and

the male pushes the chair in, then scurries around to the

other side of the table and climbs onto his own chair. The

Lucite lid over the silverware and salads lifts and both

mice pick up the proper forks and begin eating. Nathan

scribbles in his notebook.

Nathan looks up. Gabrielle jerks her head in the direction

of a very large Lucite case. Inside, Puff, now dressed in a

diaper and connected to all sorts of electrodes, is stirring.

Nathan and Gabrielle hurry over.

Puff groggily takes in his surroundings. This is quite a lot

to take in. The white room, the strange apes in strange suits,

his own clothing, the wires. After surveying the scene for a

moment, Puff becomes frightened and agitated.

He tries to escape. Not understanding Lucite, he smashes

into it, again and again. He tears at his diaper. Nathan

gives a nod to Gabrielle, who presses a button on a panel.

An electric shock sends Puff flying. He lies on the floor

confused and dazed. After a moment, he gets up and again

crashes into the Lucite. Nathan gives the signal to Gabrielle

and once again she shocks Puff. He once again gets up and

crashes against the Lucite. Again he is shocked. He gets up

again, and is about to crash against the Lucite, but he thinks

better of it, and squats in place, immobilized.

Gabrielle likes this concept a great deal. She smiles and

moves closer to Nathan.

Gabrielle poises her finger above the button. She winks at

Nathan. He blushes.

EXT. PARKING LOT - EVENING

Nathan, carrying a brief case, is walking to his car.

Gabrielle hurries to catch up to him. Her high heels click

on the pavement.

Nathan turns.

They walk along.

Gabrielle pouts. Nathan is charmed.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - EVENING

Nathan and Gabrielle sit at a romantic little table in a

trendy coffee shop.

Gabrielle starts to cry softly. Nathan doesn't know what to

do. His eyes dart around, then:

Gabrielle looks up at him appreciatively. She sniffs.

She reaches across the table and touches his hand lightly

for a moment.

INT. NATHAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nathan, in his pajamas, lies in bed reading. He looks up.

The phone rings. Nathan picks it up.

Nathan sits up in bed.

Nathan laughs.

Nathan laughs.

Nathan puts down the phone and heads to the bathroom.

Nathan opens the bathroom door.

Lila turns with a gasp. She has shaving cream all over her

chest. Nathan looks stunned. He backs away.

INT. GABRIELLE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The lights are low. The room is peppered with lit candles.

Gabrielle, in a slip, lies on her bed, eating cherries from

a bowl, and listening to Nathan and Lila's conversation on

speaker.

Footsteps and a door slam. Lila is near the phone now and

crying in desperate heaves.

Gabrielle calmly pops another cherry in her mouth and hangs

up the phone.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Nathan, in his pajamas, drives. His face is set in a furious

scowl and he drives fast.

INT. ANOTHER CAR - NIGHT

Gabrielle drives leisurely. She is calm, a slight smile on

her face.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

Nathan paces in front of Puff's Lucite case. Puff watches

suspiciously from the corner where he is huddled. The lights

are off. But there is a green glow from a couple of exit

signs.

The lights flick on. Nathan turns with a start. It's

Gabrielle. She's in an overcoat. She gasps.

Puff is taken also. His eyes are wide.

Gabrielle kneels by Puff's case. Puff crawls over, tries to

touch her through the Lucite. Gabrielle sings a French

lullaby. It's very sweet. Nathan watches her, looks at her

thigh, her hair, the delicate way the tip of her nose moves

when she sings. Puff gets drowsy. He curls up on the floor

and sleeps.

Nathan stares at her, transfixed. She pretends not to notice.

Gabrielle stands. She stretches languorously, revealing a

lot of leg.

Gabrielle walks slowly by Nathan. He inhales deeply, breathing

her in. She smiles to herself. He reaches out touches her

leg.

She moves into Nathan. She presses her thigh against his

shoulder. Nathan leans forward, kisses her exposed thigh.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Lila is shaving herself all over. Shaving and weeping.

There are nicks all over her body. She has no eyebrows any

more. The hair on her head is hacked off.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

Nathan and Gabrielle are lying naked on the floor.

Gabrielle rests her head on Nathan's chest.

Nathan tenses. Gabrielle looks up innocently at him.

Puff watches from his case. Gabrielle smiles to herself.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies.

The congressmen laugh appreciatively. The laughter is a little

too enthusiastic and goes on a little too long. It stops

abruptly.

The congressmen nod sadly, in recognition of this reality.

INT. LAB - DAY

Puff, in his Lucite case, sits behind a set dinner table.

He seems attentive, calm, interested as Nathan teaches him

table manners. Gabrielle stands very close, almost

possessively close, to Nathan. She wears a lab coat, but it

is unbuttoned, and underneath she is wearing a skin-tight

black minidress. She strokes the back of Nathan's head as he

works with Puff.

The wheels turn in Puff's head. He thinks hard. Then he

stands. Gabrielle shrieks and claps happily.

Nathan leans over and kisses Gabrielle. Puff watches. He

makes an exaggerated kissy-face, pursing his lips, trying to

imitate Nathan. The phone rings. Gabrielle pulls herself

away, giggles as Nathan tries to keep her from going, and

picks up the phone.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Lila sits on the couch. Eyebrows are attractively drawn onto

her face. She wears a very femme blonde wing. Lots of make-

up.

INT. LAB - CONTINUOUS

Nathan, phone cradled between shoulder and ear, puts his

face in his hand. Gabrielle rests a hand on his shoulder.

Nathan looks up helplessly at Gabrielle.

Gabrielle gets mad, exhales sharply, pulls her hand away.

Nathan gives her a pleading look, grabs for her. She moves

away.

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan talks. A tear runs down his face, mingles with the

blood.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Lila and Nathan eat. Lila is in her new, very feminine make-

up, wig, and dress. Her table manners are impeccable, almost

robotic. There is an awkward silence

Lila holds out her hands. Her finger nails are polished fire

engine red.

INT. NURSERY - DAY

Lila holds and rocks a swaddled baby. She passes it to Nathan,

who looks at it and sees that it's a baby monkey.

Nathan shudders. Lila looks on lovingly, oblivious.

INT. THERAPIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Nathan sits with his head in his hands. Wendall listens

attentively.

Nathan puts his head in his hands and sighs.

INT. LAB - DAY

Nathan is holding flash cards up to Puff. Puff tentatively

reads aloud from the cards. Gabrielle sits nearby on a stool,

fish-netted legs crossed, arms crossed, and an angry

expression on her face.

Puff smiles happily. Nathan and Puff both look over at

Gabrielle for her approval. None is forthcoming.

Gabrielle stands, turns, and stomps across the room. Nathan

follows her angry, switching hips with his eyes, as does

Puff. She exits into the hall. Nathan looks at Puff and

shrugs. Puff returns the shrug. Nathan follows Gabrielle

into the hall.

INT. HALL - CONTINUOUS

Gabrielle stands there waiting, a troubled look on her face,

her eyes brimming. Nathan emerges, tries to embrace her.

Nathan gets a faraway look in his eyes.

EXT. BEACH - DAY

Nathan and Gabrielle sit on a blanket on this otherwise empty

beach. There is a light breeze. Gabrielle has one of her

breasts exposed and is nursing an infant. Nathan looks at

the baby's face. It is angelic. He looks up and smiles at

Gabrielle. She smiles back. They kiss.

INT. HALL - DAY

Nathan snaps out of his reverie, looks pleadingly at the

waiting Gabrielle.

Gabrielle tears off her lab coat. Underneath she is wearing

practically nothing, a skimpy black dress. She throws the

lab coat at Nathan, turns and storms down the hall. Nathan

watches until she disappears around the corner.

He brings the lab coat up to his face and breathes in her

fragrance.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S - NIGHT

Lila, all prettied up and civilized and manicured, is setting

the table for dinner. She is humming. Nathan walks in the

door. Lila doesn't hear him. He stands in the doorway for a

moment, watching Lila from behind. His face is blank. Lila

catches sight of him. She's startled.

Lila hands Nathan a frothy pink concoction with a pineapple

wedge sticking out of it.

Nathan stares contemplatively out the window and sips his

drink. Lila watches him, comes up behind him, puts her arms

around him. Nathan cringes, but tries to cover it. Lila feels

the cringe, but pretends not to have. She keeps her arms

around him for a moment longer, then casually removes them.

Lila screws up her face in concentration, trying to come

with a viable solution to Nathan's problem.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

INT. LAB - DAY

Puff is in his case in formal evening wear in a makeshift

opera box. There is a mannequin woman sitting next to him

and a boom box pumping out Beethoven's Fidelio. Puff seems

attentive, refined, occasionally bringing a pair of opera

glasses up to his eyes, pinky extended. Outside the case,

Nathan and Lila look on. The opera is over. Puff stands,

applauds, yells "Bravo", and tosses a rose in the direction

of the imaginary stage. The rose hits the Lucite wall and

falls to the floor. Nathan and Lila stand and applaud Puff.

Puff smiles and performs a foppish bow, almost a curtsy. He

picks up the rose, sniffs it, dramatically savoring its scent.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nathan and Gabrielle are having sex. They are focused and

intent, although Gabrielle keeps chatting.

There is a mutual climax. A moment of silence, then a spent

Nathan rolls off onto his side of the bed. We see that it is

really Lila in bed with him, not Gabrielle.

Nathan stares up at the ceiling.

INT. LAB - DAY

We see a montage of interactions between Nathan, Puff, and

Lila.

1) Nathan demonstrates the proper way to taste wine: sniffing

the cork, swishing the wine around in the glass, sipping,

nodding in the affirmative to the waiter. Puff, inside his

case, imitates it perfectly.

2) Nathan shows Puff a flashcard which reads: "I'll start

tonight with the foie gras."

3) Puff is holding up a small hand mirror and trimming nose

hairs. Lila applauds.

4) Puff juggles three balls while riding a unicycle.

5) Puff, dressed as Peter Pan, stands with legs spread and

hands on hips. He is singing "I Gotta Crow."

6) Puff, dressed in an apron and chef's hat, is tossing a

salad. There are two types of vinegar to choose from. He

hesitates, then chooses the balsamic. Nathan and Lila applaud.

7) Puff, in a smoking jacket and smoking a pipe, is sitting

in an easy chair, next to a fake fire and a fake sleeping

dog, and reading a book of poems by Yeats. Lila and Nathan,

outside the case, applaud and embrace.

Nathan unlocks the case. Puff tentatively steps out into the

world. He hugs Nathan. It's a grateful, obsequious, slightly

pathetic hug. Nathan hugs him back, but he's keeping him at

a distance. Puff pulls himself out of the hug, but still

rests his hands on Nathan's shoulders and looks him in the

eye, almost like a lover. Then he parts with Nathan and goes

over to embrace Lila. She graciously receives him. After a

moment in the embrace, Puff starts dry-humping Lila. Lila

can't get out of his clutches.

Nathan presses a button, which shocks Puff and sends him

flying. Puff appears disoriented, then gets up off the floor,

brushes himself off, and turns to Lila with a bow of his

head.

EXT. CITY STREET - DAY

Lila, Nathan, and Puff walk along. Puff is astounded by

everything he sees. He looks with wonderment at the tall

buildings, the cars, the many different types of people. He

looks like an idiot.

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - DAY

Puff, Lila, and Nathan are eating lunch. Everything is very

proper. Puff is doing wonderfully.

The waitress comes by.

Puff stands and grabs her and starts humping her.

Nathan presses a button on a small black box. Puff falls to

the floor. The waitress looks on, sort of confused.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Lila, Nathan, and Puff are in the back seat of the moving

taxi.

Lila looks at Nathan, amends her statement.

INT. LAB - DAY

Puff is sitting in a chair and facing a screen. The collar

is around his neck. Nathan and Lila stand behind him at a

slide projector.

Lila dims the lights and switches on the projector. An image

of a pretty, fully clothed woman appears on the screen. Puff's

eyes widen, but he remains seated.

The slide changes to a naked woman standing in a neutral

position, no expression on her face. Puff twitches, but stays

seated.

The slide changes to another photo of the same woman in the

same position, but with a seductive smile on her face. Puff

clutches the arms of the chairs.

The slide changes to another picture of the same woman, this

time she is naked, has her back to the camera, is sticking

her butt out, and looking over her shoulder at the viewer

with shiny, heavily lipsticked, pursed lips. Puff is shaking.

Puff leaps out of his chair screaming and lunges for the

screen. Nathan grabs the black box and jolts him. Puff goes

flying in the air and lands with a crack. He heaves for a

while, then leaps up and runs for the screen again.

Again Nathan shocks him. Again he lands on the floor. He

heaves, stands, lunges for the screen again. Nathan shocks

him. This happens seven more times. Smoke is pouring out

from the collar. Puff struggles to his feet. Looks at the

screen. He shrugs.

Puff sits down in his chair, and studies his finger nails.

Nathan switches off the projector.

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

This is a Hooters-type establishment called "Chester's."

The waitresses are very busty and in Tight t-shirts which

are emblazoned with the name of the restaurant. Lila, Nathan,

and Puff sit at a table. Puff studies his menu intently, not

daring to look up. Lila looks around uncomfortably. A waitress

approaches.

The waitress leans over to study the menu. Her breasts are

in Puff's face.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Lila, Nathan, and Puff walk along.

Puff jumps up and down excitedly.

INT. LAB - DAY

Lila, Nathan, and Puff enter. Puff sees his Lucite case.

It has been transformed into a bachelor pad. Inside is a

king-size bed, a TV, a couch, coffee table, shelves lined

with books, a small kitchenette. There is a curtain which

can be drawn for privacy. Puff is taken aback.

Puff gasps and runs into the room. He is thrilled. Nathan

holds up a key.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Lila and Nathan sit as far as possible from each other and

read books. Nathan looks at his watch.

INT. PUFF'S CASE - NIGHT

Puff, dressed identically to Nathan, reads Moby Dick and

smokes a pipe. He distractedly taps his foot, stands and

studies a Monet print on the wall. His foot is still nervously

tapping. He checks his watch.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Nathan stands.

Nathan kisses Lila on the forehead.

INT. CAR - NIGHT

Nathan drives with a determined look on his face.

INT. GABRIELLE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

The apartment is a mess. Every single light is on.

Gabrielle is lounging in a stained nightshirt with a dopey

cartoon bear on the front. She's got some sort of pimple

medication dabbed on her face. She unconsciously but

ferociously bites her nails as she watches TV and talks on

the phone. There is no trace of a French accent.

There's a knock at the door.

Gabrielle's eyes widen. She jumps up from the couch and starts

straightening.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Nathan stands there leaning against the door.

INT. GABRIELLE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Gabrielle is standing in front of a mirror, holding different

sexy outfits up to herself, trying to decide.

EXT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

We hear banging and rustling and arranging coming from inside

the apartment.

He starts to head down the hall.

Nathan heads back to the apartment, tries the knob. The door's

open. He enters.

INT. GABRIELLE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

The lights are low. The place is neat. Cool jazz plays quietly

in the background. Candles are lit. Gabrielle is nowhere to

be found. Nathan takes it all in. It's quite seductive.

Nathan follows her voice. He exits into the bedroom.

INT. GABRIELLE'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Candles in here also. Gabrielle, now made up and in a satin

teddy, lounges in bed, eating cherries from a bowl. Nathan

just stares. She is slightly out of breath, but trying to

conceal it. A film of perspiration glistens on her brow.

Gabrielle cries quietly. Nathan moves closer to her. He

strokes her hair.

Gabrielle looks up at him. Her expression is noncommittal

and pouty, but she grabs his arm and pulls him down on top

of her.

INT. STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Puff, dressed a bit like he's a Victorian dandy, sits in the

front row and watches a naked woman on stage dancing. A

topless cocktail waitress comes by with a fresh drink for

him. She takes away his empty glass. He is horribly drunk

and holding himself with exaggerated rigidity -- an amateur

drinker's attempt to look sober.

INT. LILA AND NATHAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nathan enters. Lila sits on the couch still reading. She

looks up.

Nathan kisses her on the forehead.

Lila turns around and slugs him, square on the jaw, hard,

knocking him to the floor.

Lila opens up the hall closet and pulls out a suitcase.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila looks pale and shaken. She smokes.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Lila lies in bed watching TV. She is a mess. The room is a

mess. The wig is off. There's hair sprouting on her face.

The curtains are drawn. There is a knock at the door.

Lila gets up, drags herself to the door, and opens it. Rose

stands there trying not to let it show how lousy Lila looks.

Rose holds Lila, who hangs on her as she weeps.

Lila mulls it over. She looks back at the hotel room. It's

depressing. She sniffs in her snot.

MONTAGE SEQUENCE

This sequence is Lila getting her strength back, both

emotional and physical. It is intercut with scenes of Nathan

and Gabrielle taking Puff on the lecture circuit.

1) Lila eating a good breakfast.

2) Lila struggling to do push-ups.

3) Lila getting electrolysis on her face.

4) Lila reading Nietzsche.

5) Lila jogging.

INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY

A bearded psychologist addresses a crowd of bearded

psychologists.

The room bursts into applause as Nathan and Puff walk out

onstage, both in tuxes. Nathan stands behind a podium, Puff

sits casually, legs crossed, in a chair.

A video of Puff naked in his Lucite case, clawing at it,

shrieking like a banshee, and neurotically hopping up and

down, is projected onto a screen behind Nathan. There is a

collective gasp from the audience. Puff watches the video

with amused detachment. The video stops.

Puff stands, bows slightly to the audience. They burst into

vigorous applause.

INT. BACKSTAGE - A BIT LATER

Gabrielle waits in the wings.

The audience bursts into thunderous applause. Gabrielle joins

in. Nathan and Puff hurry off stage. Gabrielle embraces

Nathan.

Puff and Gabrielle exchange a look. She discreetly pinches

Puff's butt, smiles, winks. Nathan doesn't see this. He puts

his arm around Gabrielle.

Nathan and Gabrielle walk on ahead. Puff tags behind, watching

Gabrielle's delightful walk.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LATER

Puff sits up on his bed, looking dejected. He listens to the

sounds of Nathan and Gabrielle having sex in the adjoining

room. He looks at his watch, gets up, gets dressed.

INT. X RATED BOOKSTORE - LATER

A sweaty, sick-looking Puff watches a porno film in a little

booth. It ends. He steps out into the fluorescent glare of

the store. He walks out past several skulking degenerates.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Puff exits the bookstore, walks down the street checking out

the tawdry hookers. He chooses one. She leads him into a

dark alley.

MONTAGE

6) Lila in a Tai Chi class.

7) Lila doing jumping jacks.

8) Lila reading The Art of War.

9) Lila doing stomach crunches.

10) Lila doing chin ups.

11) Lila swimming laps.

12) Lila getting more electrolysis.

INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY

Puff is on stage demonstrating his ballroom dancing technique.

He is waltzing with Gabrielle. Nathan stops the music, and

picks up a microphone.

Nathan puts a tango record on. Gabrielle and Puff perform

expertly. The audience applauds.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Gabrielle, Nathan, and Puff are eating dinner.

Gabrielle and Puff look at each other. She touches Puff's

knee under the table. Nathan is busy eating.

INT. ANOTHER HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Puff paces as he listens to sex noises from the next room.

EXT. BAD NEIGHBORHOOD - NIGHT

Puff walks along checking out the prostitutes. He signals to

one with a nonchalant jerk of his head.

MONTAGE

13) Lila doing one-handed push-ups.

14) Lila rolling on the ground with a rifle.

15) Lila, in boxing gloves, punching a bag.

16) Lila reading the Kama Sutra.

17) Lila getting electrolysis.

INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY

Puff addresses the crowd. Lila and Nathan look on adoringly

from the wings.

Thunderous applause.

INT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Puff leans against the wall drinking whiskey from a bottle,

as a prostitute, down on her knees in front of him, does her

business. The look on his face is not one of pleasure or

even release. It is a look of decay.

MONTAGE

18) Lila does chin ups. Her sweaty, muscular arms glisten in

the sun.

19) Lila wind sprinting.

20) Lila getting electrolysis. Rose moves away from her.

INT. LAB - DAY

Nathan and Gabrielle, in lab coats, sit chatting with Puff.

Puff sneaks glances at Gabrielle's legs and cleavage. She

makes his viewing possible.

Nathan kisses Gabrielle.

Puff blushes.

Gabrielle kisses Nathan while glancing at Puff. A midget in

a business suit enters. It's the sour-looking guy from the

freak show.

The midget turns.

The midget pulls out a gun.

Nathan, Gabrielle, and Puff look frightened. They stand and

back into the case.

Puff stops in his tracks. Nathan and Gabrielle continue to

back into the case.

Nathan and Gabrielle hurry into the case. The midget closes

and locks the door behind them. Puff is frozen with fear.

Lila enters. She looks different now. Savage. Strong.

Kind of sexy. She wears guerilla-like black clothing and a

beret over her closely hacked-off hair. She also carries a

gun.

Lila kisses the midget on the top of the head.

Rose enters hurriedly, carrying rope. She bends over and

kisses Frank hard on the mouth for a long moment, then:

Lila looks over and sees the two trained mice in the Lucite

case sitting at a tiny table and very politely eating their

lunch. One of the mice makes eye contact with Lila.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Lila is naked in the bathroom and about to kill herself when

she makes eye contact with the mouse on the shelf next to

the tub.

INT. LAB - DAY

Lila brings her focus back to the room. Everyone is watching

her, waiting for some direction.

Frank keeps the gun on Gabrielle and Nathan. Rose enters the

case and begins to tie them up and gag them.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Puff is sitting in the car. The electronic collar is back

around his neck. Lila holds the black control box, and the

Lucite case with the two mice in it. She stands outside the

car with Frank and Rose.

Lila laughs and hugs her.

Frank and Rose put their arms around each other. Frank is

exactly crotch-high to Rose.

Lila tears up. So does Rose. They just stand there for a

moment, then:

Lila hurries around the car, gets in, and drives off. Rose

and Frank embrace. Frank nestles. Rose sighs contentedly.

EXT. HIGHWAY - AFTERNOON

Lila's car drives along. Puff looks nervously out the window.

INT. CAR - EVENING

Lila and Puff are driving in silence on a dirt road through

the woods. Lila pulls off the road, drives to a place where

the car will be camouflaged, and parks.

Puff stays in the car. Lila gets out, pulls the Lucite mouse

case from the back seat.

EXT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Lila puts the case on the ground and unlatches it. The mice

looks confused at first. Then the male mouse pushes the door

open and holds it for the female mouse, who exits. The male

mouse follows her, and closes the door behind him. He turns

to Lila, nods, then extends his arm for the female mouse to

hold on to. She does, and they walk off together on their

hind legs into the woods. Lila sighs, and turns to Puff.

Puff gets out casually, then makes a mad dash for the road.

Lila calmly presses the button on her black box. Puff spasms

and falls to the ground.

Puff stays on the ground, breathing hard.

Puff does.

Puff does. So does Lila. She is covered with hair, except

for her face. But whereas Puff is now white and soft-looking,

Lila is tan and taut and muscular. This is a reversal of the

way both of them were when they first met.

Puff seems taken with her body.

Lila shocks Puff. He falls to the ground.

EXT. WOODS - A BIT LATER

Puff and Lila have built makeshift shelter out of leaves and

twigs. They are sitting around a campfire, naked and dirty,

roasting a couple of skinned squirrels on sticks. The black

box rests in Lila's lap. Puff looks at the roasting squirrel,

is repulsed.

Puff begins to disagree. Lila's hand hovers over the button.

He stops himself.

Lila shocks Puff.

INT. MAKESHIFT SHELTER - NIGHT

Puff and Lila lie seperately under blankets of moss. The

breathing is heavy. Both seem to be sleeping. Puff opens his

eyes and tries to extricate himself from the moss without

making any noise. Lila presses the button and Puff falls in

a quivering mess.

Lila shocks Puff once again. As he spasms, we:

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff testifies.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Lila and Puff are naked and collecting mushrooms and berries.

Time has passed. Both Lila and Puff are dirtier and hairier.

Puff still wears his collar. Lila bends over to pick a

mushroom. Puff looks at her from behind.

Lila turns, puts her finger to her lips in a gentle "no

talking" reminder, then shocks the hell out of Puff. He spasms

and falls on top of her, knocking her to the ground.

He regains his composure, finds himself on top of Lila.

They look at each other for a moment. Then they kiss. It's a

violent kiss. They grope each other. This is primal sex now.

In the dirt. Sweaty. Loud grunting. Lila even presses the

shock button at the right moment. Puff seems to like it in

this context.

INT. GABRIELLE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Nathan and Gabrielle are in bed, making love. It is gentle,

romantic, in good taste -- in direct contrast to the animal,

violent sex Puff and Lila are having. They finish. Nathan

pulls himself off of Gabrielle and falls onto his back,

staring up at the ceiling.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Gabrielle, Nathan, and Nathan's parents eat dinner.

Nathan's parents are in clown make-up. There is a long

silence. Nathan is still sad. Gabrielle steals glances at

Nathan's parents. Finally Nathan speaks.

The parents look at each other burst out laughing.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Nathan and Gabrielle are in bed. Nathan stares up at the

ceiling. Finally:

Nathan, seemingly in the grips of a sudden horrific migraine,

scrunches his face and holds his ears. He relaxes a bit, and

gets out of bed. He walks across the room, pulls on some

pants, and picks up a container called "Stop Buggin' Me,

Sunny."

INT. CAR - DAY

Nathan is driving along a wooded dirt road. He's in his

immaculate safari suit. He looks tired. He stops the car,

pulls out a gun, and gets out.

EXT. WOODS - CONTINUOUS

Nathan gets out of the car and runs into the woods. We follow.

He looks around there is no one there. He sighs and walks

back to his car, pulls out a map and marks an area with a

red X.

INT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Nathan is in his underwear. He is ironing his safari suit as

he talks on the phone.

We see an unfolded map on the bed. There are red X's in almost

all the state parks along the east coast.

EXT. FOREST - EVENING

Lila and puff are having sex again next to a campfire. Now

Lila is wearing the collar, and Puff is giving her well timed

shocks. They giggle and kiss after they finish. Puff sits

up. He holds his stomach and grunts hungrily. Lila grunts

back. She stands and retrieves a sack of berries.

Puff and Lila greedily, gluttonously stuff their faces.

Lila takes some berries and smashes them against Puff's face.

She laughs heartily. He looks annoyed for a second, but then

grabs a handful and squishes them against Lila's face. Pretty

soon they are having a berry war and are covered in purple

stains. They hug each other, out of breath and laughing.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila smiles.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Lila and Puff lie naked in a tree, lazily soaking up the

midday sun. There is a rustling in the bushes. They both

look up, alert but calm. Nathan, immaculate in his safari

suit, appears in the clearing. He holds a gun.

Nathan laughs heartily, haughtily, at his joke as Lila and

Puff climb down from the tree.

Puff looks at Lila. Lila shrugs helplessly. Puff reaches out

to touch her hand.

Puff looks at Lila again. She jerks her head in the direction

of Nathan. Puff sighs and moves to Nathan.

Nathan prods Puff, and they head off through the trees.

Suddenly Puff elbows Nathan. Nathan grunts, doubles over.

Puff turns, lunges, and the two wrestle on the ground.

Puff pries the gun from Nathan's hand, and jumps up. Nathan

stands also, backing away. Puff has the gun trained on Nathan.

Lila runs to Puff, stands behind him.

Lila nods.

Puff shoots. A crow screams. The fluttering of wings. The

bullet hits Nathan in the head. He falls.

INT. POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Lila sobs.

INT. AUDITORIUM - DAY

Puff dabs his eye.

INT. WHITE SPACE - DAY

Nathan talks.

We move into an extreme close-up.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Lila runs to Nathan. She kneels beside him.

INT. JAIL - DAY

Lila, now in prison coveralls, sits in a dayroom with other

women convicts. She is watching a TV mounted on the wall.

Puff is testifying.

Puff stands and exits the auditorium. Flashbulbs flash.

In the prison common room, Lila wipes a tear from her eye.

She seems genuinely happy. She looks out a small barred window

and sees a bluebird light there, then fly away.

EXT. WASHINGTON STREET - DAY

Puff walks along, a man on a mission. As he walks he sheds

articles of clothing. He is followed by reporters and

cameramen and celebrity hounds. Soon he is naked.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - DAY

Puff walks along, naked. People cheer from porches.

EXT. RURAL ROAD - DUSK

Puff walks along. He is still followed by reporters. Cows

watch the parade.

EXT. FOREST - EVENING

Puff walks along a dirt road. He is about to disappear into

the forest. An older woman rushes out from the crowd.

The older woman starts to cry.

Puff holds out his hand for her to shake. Flashbulbs flash.

His mother weeps. Puff gently rests his hand on her shoulder

for a moment, then he turns and waves to the reporters. The

crowd bursts into applause. Flashbulbs flash. Puff jogs into

the woods. There is a collective sigh, and then everyone

turns and heads back in the direction from which they came.

We hold on the woods for a moment. A car pulls up. Puff

hurries out of the woods and jumps in the passenger side of

the car.

INT. CAR - CONTINUOUS

Puff leans over and kisses Gabrielle, who is driving the

car.

Gabrielle giggles. Puff kisses her.

This turns Gabrielle on. She kisses him passionately. When

the kiss runs its course, Puff speaks.

Gabrielle kisses him again, even more passionately this time

They smile flirtatiously at each other. Puff leans over and

kisses Gabrielle's neck.

EXT. DIRT ROAD - NIGHT

The car makes a screeching u-turn. It disappears in the

direction of the city. When the dust clears, we see the two

white mice standing there on the side of the road, shivering

and emaciated. The male holds out his the thumb and the female

holds a tiny little sign which reads: New York.

There is a look of hopelessness in their beady black eyes.

FADE OUT.

