FADE IN:

INT. PASSAGEWAY - NIGHT

The CAMERA briskly retreats as FORTY, HIGHLY CHARGED,

ATTRACTIVE, YOUNG PEOPLE march towards it. Each side of the

frame is black as this troupe of young actors moves up the

middle, everyone talking, grinning, squealing,... everyone

having the "high" of their lives.

INT. NEW YORK CLUB - NIGHT

As the troupe, with geometric precision, spills into a large

room (containing a raised dance floor); the CAMERA begins to

move past dancing couples as a legend appears:

'This is 1975 and Matt Hobbs is singled out for the first

time.'

And now the CAMERA reveals MATT HOBBS. His open, friendly,

American face slips between some of the many cracks in his

profession. The face at 26, and forever more, not arresting

enough for a leading man; not quirky enough for a "character."

Matt must briefly walk on the dance floor to make his way

past a knot of people. He dances furiously for two seconds,

then steps down as THE DANCERS BEGIN TO SING "WOW", but just

as the song breaks out musically, we hear the SOUND OF PEOPLE

SHHHING; the singers falter and then stop as the party-goers

gather, in choreographed movement, at a ceiling mounted TV

set.

MAN ON TV

We can barely discern the words. . ."with his review is

Leonard Graff."

A FRANTIC ACTRESS yelps a command:

Silence, then:

ON MATT

He stands next to a ruggedly handsome and extremely nauseous

CONTEMPORARY.

He begins to walk, the Handsome Contemporary falling into

step. Everyone they pass is straining, upwards, at the TV.

At that moment, the rest of the party-goers turn from the TV

as one, looking mugged. (One girl briefly gets our attention

because she is particularly distraught; tears streaming down

her angry face. The mixture of tears and rage are, of course,

the chemical components of incredible sexiness. Her name is

BETH.) A TORTURED MALE DANCER offers an incantation.

The DIRECTOR moves through the group, bucking up spirits.

ON MATT AND FELLOW CAST MEMBERS - LATER

As they morosely watch the Director approach.

Beth looks at him, puzzled.

Beth turns from the conversation, finding it preposterous,

then rivets her attention on the Director, walking towards

them, holding a ridiculously thick sheaf of papers. Beth

begins to sob in anticipation.

The Director reaches them.

They all look at him.

The Director hunts for the paragraph.

The table of actors look at a sober Matt. A long beat and

then, against his will, he grins... then a short, involuntary

barking laugh of joy... then:

ESTABLISHING SHOT - L.A. MODERATE INCOME STREET

As we HEAR the next lines of "WOW", BEGIN MAIN TITLES as the

CAMERA BOOMS UP to the outside of a small apartment as a

legend appears on screen:

Beth, now 27, is standing in front of a TV set showing the

Emmy dancers performing a phrase of "WOW". She screams out.

INT. ANOTHER ROOM

Matt, 30, is on the phone.

Matt hangs up and tear-asses into the living room. Beth

screams as his name is read.

TV INSERT - POWERS BOOTHE ACCEPTANCE SPEECH

Beth glares at him, on the verge of taking him on--but he is

looking at her very directly... the lack of any other agenda

giving him a temporary edge... Beth decides to state the

unadorned truth.

She is waving her hand in a circle... he is puzzled.

They kiss, then break, murmuring to each other.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING AREA - FOUR A.M.

A SET FRAME showing several clusters of waiting people. A

man rushes to one of these clusters, cueing this group to

sing the next phrase of "WOW". As an extremely hyper Matt

enters, the SONG STOPS and a legend appears:

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

As Matt walks with pep, accompanied by a burst of "WOW".

INT. BETH'S HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Beth holds BABY JEANNIE and wears a scowl.

On Matt's expression...

INT. MODEST ONE-BEDROOM APARTMENT - LATE NIGHT

Matt and Beth lie on an open sofa-bed. "WOW" is completed,

though with a dirge-like cadence. We hear a baby crying over

a cheap walky-talky near their bed.

INT. BABY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Where we see the crying baby holding the walky-talky in front

of its mouth as it screams into the mouthpiece.

BACK TO SCENE

END MAIN TITLES

FADE IN:

INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - MORNING

It's an awful place... the start-up apartment he's way too

old for... but we don't yet see his humble quarters. Rather:

A BLURRED IMAGE

Then, the screen is CLEARED ON ONE HALF so we see half of a

contact lens holder in focus--the other half blurred--until

Matt gets his second contact in.

MATT'S POV

A tube of tooth bleach. CLOSE ON THE DIRECTIONS, then:

ON MATT

Bleaching his teeth... finishing... smiling in the mirror...

This is the bleached smile of fear--true fear--the awful

state of having lost your way. The phone rings. Matt clears

his voice before answering.

Matt was so suddenly, emotionally extended that the anger

leaves him that quickly... just a strange atypical lightning

bolt of rage toward life and women.

He rubs his head with both hands, including the one holding

the phone. This allows us to hear his ex-wife repeat the

same sentence over and over again.

Beth turns angry again. Matt finds, unfortunately, that he's

got one more act of bravado left.

He hangs up.

EXT. SIDE STREET - DAY

As Matt walks from the outdoor parking lot, past inexpensive

homes. In the lot, on private lawns and every public bench,

at each street corner, are various actors doing the relaxation

exercises which will form the basis of A DANCE, as they go

over their "sides".

We pass various actors going over alternate sentences for

the same speech so that we get a sense of the speech as a

whole from the sum of its parts.

EXT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY

An office building of clear architectural merit located in

an industrial area. Even the sign "Popcorn Pictures" has all

the artistic dignity the name itself lacks... MUSIC ENTERS...

Gradually, movement BECOMES CHOREOGRAPHED...i.e., the young

actor and actress running across the street do so with

uncommon grace. The area Matt passes is very crowded and we

still haven't reached the most congested area of all as we

STUDY FACES and HEAR snatches of the actors' preparation.

MUSIC BECOMING MORE INSISTENT as we approach the building--

the mumbling of the actors taking on the SOUND of a Wailing

Wall...

THREE HYSTERICAL ACTRESSES

SINGING the dialogue...

TWO ACTRESSES

Standing near each other--exchange glares as they break each

other's concentration and move apart... THEIR MOVEMENT SERVING

as our gateway to DANCING... The SONG "MAKE BELIEVE" enters

fully now and builds in intensity, reaching a repeated phrase,

as we move to Matt and he enters the building, thereby cutting

off the song.

ON MATT

As the SONG continues in intensity, Matt enters the building

at the end of a repeated phrase cutting off the song as we

move to:

ANGLE ON RECEPTION AREA

Where CATHY BRESLOW, age 30, waits. Hollywood is a bit of an

uphill struggle for Cathy. She is bright where others are

brilliant, pretty where others are gorgeous, enormously hard

working where others are obsessive-compulsive. She is clearly

waiting for someone while reading an enormously thick book

galley. Matt almost scoots by her, then stops.

INT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY

MOVING SHOT. Staircase packed with actors, an uphill slalom

almost impossible to navigate.

They reach the casting assistant, CLAIRE.

As Matt is handed a set of sides, we SHOOT PAST Matt as he

watches Cathy move back down the stairs before he can say

another word. She moves with wit. He is struck by her. He

looks back at Claire, who has an intricate hairdo and a ready

smile.

SAME SHOT - TWO HOURS LATER

Her hairdo wilted, her blouse soiled, her smile gone, the

tendons of her neck prominent.

ON MATT

Going over his lines. Hearing his name, he rises. Claire

gestures him in.

INT. BURKE'S OFFICE - DAY

The walls are pockmarked with movie posters. THREE MEN sit

in an area some distance from the desk. The casting director,

MARTIN, makes the introduction:

He speaks with an Australian accent, gets half-up and extends

his hand.

Matt smiles.

Burke indicates Martin.

Matt rises uncomfortably. A SECRETARY enters and hands a

note to the director.

Matt looks astonished as the director leaves the room.

As he gets into the scene he begins to experience some release

of the desperate feelings he's been harboring.

INT. CATHY'S OFFICE - DAY

We HEAR the strains of the theme of a past hit movie coming

from Cathy's cassette player. A rack of soundtracks clearly

visible. Cathy is frowning as she reads the last of the galley

pages. She overhears some conversation in the adjoining room

which begins to disturb her concentration.

Cathy closes the door, shutting her off. She now begins to

fill out a form with a felt-tipped pen. As she does so, the

pad is supered on the screen--action seen through it. As she

writes, we see the notations on the super.

It is marked COVERAGE--CONFIDENTIAL FROM: CATHY BRESLOW. TO:

BURKE ADLER. SUBJECT: (the pen writes out) "LITTLE DICK"

GENRE/CATEGORY (the pen writes out ACTION-ADVENTURE). Then

there are columns to check EXCELLENT, GOOD, FAIR, POOR for

the story. CHARACTERS, DIALOGUE... The pen checks FAIR for

story, POOR for all else, CHARACTER, DIALOGUE, etc. The form

then states--CHECK ONE OF THE FOLLOWING SENTENCES:

I DO NOT RECOMMEND THIS PROJECT

I RECOMMEND THIS PROJECT

I STRONGLY RECOMMEND THIS PROJECT

I'D STAKE MY ALL ON THIS PROJECT

I'D GLADLY STAKE MY ALL ON THIS PROJECT

The phone rings. As she picks it up and reaches to turn down

the volume of the motion picture soundtrack she's listening

to.

She hangs up and begins to alter the form changing the

STORY/POOR to STORY/EXCELLENT, and all the other POORS to

GOOD... and now the Recommend section.

INSERT

The pen is poised.

ON CATHY

Her soul is poised. A beat and she allows "I DO NOT RECOMMEND"

to stand, the source music theme--"CHARIOTS OF FIRE"--

coincidentally celebrates this considerable act of heroism.

Cathy takes the sheet and walks to the door.

INT. OUTER OFFICE - DAY

As she approaches her secretary's desk, she overhears two

other members of Burke's Development Staff (a 27-year-old

well-dressed man and a woman younger than Cathy) as they

enthuse.

She surreptitiously changes her "recommend" as Matt enters.

She looks up.

She nods and starts to turn back towards her office.

The other people in the office stare at Matt.

He nods and starts to go. She looks at him.

Matt smiles in astonishment and exits.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Matt drives his faded, seven-year-old car into view.

INT./EXT. MATT'S CAR - EARLY EVENING

He looks off... sees something that arrests his interest and

pulls to the curb. It's a curious sight.

MATT'S POV

Burke Adler, standing at a street corner, palpably in pain.

He's trying to rein in his emotions, sucking in huge gulps

of air... and, then, a wave of emotion gets the better of

him as he looks at his watch. A sob escapes him--shocked

that he's so close to tears on a public street corner, he

battles for control... another sob as he looks to the heavens.

ON MATT

A split second to consider, then he's out of his car.

FULL SHOT - THE STREET CORNER

A flow of PEOPLE--in the foreground, the tortured figure of

Burke Adler--in the background, Matt Hobbs, pauses before

intruding. But Burke's spectacle is growing more public,

sounds of anguish escape him.

CLOSER SHOT - BURKE

And now he begins to dissassemble, openly crying--on the

verge of a complete breakdown. Matt moves into frame, grabbing

Burke, trying to provide him with an anchor.

CLOSE ON MATT

His face--his eyes providing a beacon of strength.

ON BURKE

Totally fucked-up, wild-eyed. As he witnesses his own state.

Burke flails at himself as Matt looks at him.

Matt starts to lead him back, then realizes he's alone, Burke

having seen his car finally arrive.

MATT'S POV

Burke, berating the YOUNG DRIVER. Matt pauses, awed by the

wild gesticulating--the few screamed words...

CAMERA FOLLOWING MATT

As he joins Burke and the young man, Burke turns to Matt.

The driver gets out.

INT. BURKE'S CAR

EXT. GOLDEN STATE FREEWAY - EARLY EVENING

The sun setting on a nondescript slab of California.

INT. BURKE'S CAR - EARLY EVENING

The two men... Matt feeling very peculiar in this line of

work. Burke's tension renders him arresting, handsome even.

The look of generals who go forth against long odds. He takes

an enormous cleansing breath. It startles Matt.

EXT. MALL - EARLY EVENING

Burke's car moves toward the movie complex.

BURKE'S POV

Our first view of NAN MULHANNEY; middle-aged and pragmatic,

yet extraordinarily naive. She's a scientist of sorts--

monitoring the tastes and feelings of Americans, first in

Washington and now here. Though she just had a very rough

hour or so, she bends down to smile at Burke.

INT. BURKE'S CAR

He stops talking, stops breathing, as he sees.

BURKE'S POV - THE TEST AUDIENCE

The line consists of disparate, disinterested people who are

focused on their own small, personal dramas--not at all

cognizant of the fact that they hold a life in their hands.

They are clearly growing impatient.

INT. CAR

MUSIC IN... Burke steels himself and exits the car.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - LATE DAY

But he pays her no mind as MUSIC CONTINUES and he moves

towards the line. Nan approaches the car.

ANGLE ON BURKE

As he approaches the line, he BEGINS TO SING his love to

them, "I'll Do Anything." As he pours out his misdirected

heart to individuals on the line who DO NOT HEAR HIM.

ANGLE ON LINE

Their impatience gives rise to a VERY SLOW TAP DANCE, each

couple or cluster doing it differently--barely exaggerating

the normal shifting of a line... As BURKE CONTINUES TO SING...

the song builds as does the dance... Burke sings even more

passionately, his D-PEOPLE perhaps joining in as BACKGROUND

SINGERS. At a key point, the disparate groups turn and form

a SOLID UNIFIED LINE. They begin the rhythmic clapping of

impatience--having become a line, they now threaten to become

a mob. Burke sings one more Joe Cocker-like passionate plea

before turning to camera to shout over the mayhem:

As they enter.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - EVENING

Nan is addressing the audience from down front.

As she says this:

ANGLE ON REAR OF HOUSE

Where Burke spies the STUDIO HEAD and leaves Matt's side.

ON STUDIO HEAD

As BURKE enters the frame behind him. He is right behind his

boss' ear. He leans in and offers an intimacy.

The boss is startled--jumps. BURKE eyes him... there must be

some way to profit from these stolen moments with a powerful

man.

He moves back to Matt and Nan at the rear of the audience.

Strangely, Burke seems truly buoyed by the words of

encouragement he himself manufactured. He moves down three

rows and sits in an aisle seat just as the film opens with a

series of violent explosions.

CLOSE ON NAN

Incredibly, Burke turns and gestures to her that the sound

of her small voice is interfering with the cacophony of his

movie. Nan is clearly stricken by her lapse as she whispers

to Matt.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - 1:47:20 LATER

We are seeing one of the final moments of the film.

INT. WHOLESALE BUTCHER'S (THE FILM) - DAY

As the muscular hero moves with stealth through the giant

refrigerated meat door. He passes cows and dead men hanging

from alternate hooks. Suddenly, he is attacked by the villain

brandishing an electric meat dismembering tool. The hero

ducks, the machine ripping apart hanging cow flesh. The hero

grabs the only weapon he can find: a large piece of meat on

a large bone, which he uses as a mace. He clubs the other

man--then again--and again. Part of the audience is whooping

and applauding.

QUICK SHOT OF NAN

Standing with Matt and Cathy. At the sound of the applause,

Nan grins and mumbles with a connoisseur's knowledge.

BACK TO SCREEN

Where the hero stands over the man whose face he has

shattered, holding a club from which hang strings of meat.

He is breathing heavily, and between breaths, states:

General audience laughter.

SERIES OF SHOTS ON NAN - FRONT OF AUDIENCE

ON AISLES

Matt and others handing out cards with pencils attached...

Folks filling them out. As an ADOLESCENT MALE fills it out;

PREVIEW CARD FILLS THE SCREEN as we view LIVE ACTION THROUGH

IT.

INT. THEATER MANAGER'S OFFICE

An office meant for two, containing twenty counters. The

counting is done with erasers rifling stacks, creating a

sound, a MUSICAL RHYTHM, as the GROUP CAPTAIN calls out with

gospel cadence.

Matt, his tally finished, squats on the floor, waiting. The

Group Captain approaches.

Matt looks blank.

Matt now realizes that it is his category and hands over the

older male cards and exits.

INT. THEATER LOBBY - NIGHT

Burke, prowling the lobby as audience stragglers leave and

Studio Execs and Popcorn Development Staff wait. He looks

off to see Matt and Nan chatting in another part of the lobby.

ON MATT AND NAN

As they arrive... Nan looks off to see the Group Captain

approach.

An OLDER WOMAN approaches them.

The Group Captain approaches and hands Nan a sheet.

FULL SHOT

Everyone, all the studio and Popcorn staff, is drawn to Nan.

ON NAN

As she glances at the figures.

ON NAN'S LEFT HAND

As she secretly reaches for and holds Burke's hand. Is it in

sympathy or congratulations?

TIGHT ON STUDIO EXECUTIVE FACES

As we see in ever-so-SLOWED ACTIONS, tense lips turning

gloriously upward to reveal gums--then a smile. More smiles

as we pan across teeth... bonded executives and bonded teeth.

The shot widens. The studio head mumbles to himself as he

carefully goes over the tally in every category. Then:

His smiling face takes us:

TO BURKE

A tear in his eye--a smile shyer than others. He turns to

the old lady, instinctively using this victory to settle his

most recent score as he says mockingly:

EXT. THEATER - NIGHT

Cathy and Matt are leaning against Burke's car. Cathy is

distraught--temporarily, but horribly, unsure of herself.

Matt is looking at her. If he had a little more confidence

going for him right now, he would make his move. But, for

now, they are two self-doubters on different trips.

She hefts the bag--puts it back down--crosses her eyes,

burlesquing the weight of the bag. He helps her put it on

her shoulder.

She smiles and is gone, staggering a bit under the weight of

her scripts. Matt looks after her. Burke and Nan approach.

He leans against the car for support.

As Burke moves to his car. He SEES the Group Captain paying

Matt.

Burke is looking at Matt with some surprise.

As they get in the car, Burke has the front door open, about

to get in--reconsiders, and gets in the rear door.

Matt gets behind the wheel, thereby ending the day as a full-

fledged chauffeur. They drive off.

EXT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Burke and Nan returning from lunch.

INT. TRACKING ROOM - DAY

The enter the room containing a maze of telephone cubbies

with workers manning the phones.

Burke hardly hears. He is awed as if by a cathedral.

They pause by a workers to say goodbye.

He exits as the telephone pollster continues with the list

of prospective Michelle Pfeiffer male co-stars.

INT. PLANE

Matt, wearing earphones, is in the middle of a row of five,

intent on what he is watching.

MATT'S POV

A recent example of a great actor in a regular movie...

something like Brando in "The Freshman." No sound.

ON MATT

Watching intently. Not watching--studying... not studying--

fully appreciating. Now he sees a particularly good moment--

looks around joyously for half a beat--a reflex to share

what he saw. His neighbors, not quite knowing what he's

smiling at; he returns his attention to the screen.

EXT. MID-WESTERN HOUSE - DAY

As Matt's cab pulls up. He opens the front gate and walks up

to the porch, noting a tricycle, stirred by old guilts. He

knocks on the door. A MAN answers.

He lights a cigarette, takes three quick drags, then flicks

it away before walking inside behind Matt.

INT. HOUSE - DAY

They enter. A bedroom down a narrow hallway from where they

stand. Remember "The Best Years of Our Lives"... Frederic

March coming home from the wars and seeing his wife just a

beat before she sees him. Here we have a wretched mutant of

that moment. Beth, still fierce and attractive, is packing

her daughter's suitcase when she senses him and looks up.

Shaking her head with a disapproval which will never die,

she walks to him.

Several beats--Beth and the man staring at Matt.

She turns and starts for the other room.

She exits. He sits down, stunned in the headlights of his

fate.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Matt and the Marshal in the foreground as Beth talks to

Jeannie in the background. We see only glimpses of them.

Beth's face as she leans towards Jeannie from one side of

the doorway--just Jeannie's legs dangling on the other side.

Matt and the Marshal exchange a look of mutual horror.

The Marshal and Matt shift uncomfortably.

The Marshal and Matt can stand no more--they each call to

her... "Beth... Beth... Mrs. Hobbs... Beth." She looks out

and then walks to them.

She returns to the doorway which still only provides us with

glimpses as she SINGS, "DON'T TALK TO STRANGERS." The CAMERA

MOVES down the hallway to INTRODUCE JEANNIE, trying to puzzle

things out as she sits amongst a ridiculous number of

suitcases.

INT. SITTING ROOM - DAY

As the two females who bear his name approach. Matt doesn't

want a pregnant first moment with Jeannie, so he wards off

silence with chatter. Unfortunately, he can only think of

one word.

Beth stops him with a look, then bends down.

EXT. BETH'S HOUSE - DAY - LONG SHOT

All three adults and Jeannie sharing the burden of the luggage

as they move towards the cab. Mother and child hug. Matt

struck by his child's plight, him.

Tears fall from Jeannie's eyes.

As Beth buckles Jeannie into the front seat, Matt gets in

the back, alone, feeling preposterous. Beth nods to the

Marshal, who surreptitiously handcuffs her.

SHOT - JEANNIE

The cab pulls away. Matt leans towards her as she looks back

at the receding figure of her mother and grows still.

ON MOTHER AND MARSHALL

As she sings him one last line of "DON'T TALK TO STRANGERS."

EXT. SIDEWALK AREA - DAY

Matt checks Jeannie's luggage, then takes her hand. She lets

him. He is grateful.

INT. PLANE - DAY

Jeannie and Matt in the center two seats of a five seat row.

Jeannie is coloring in a book which Matt bought her; he is

holding some extra crayons.

And just that quick, Jeannie screams.

Other passengers turn around. This is pretty raw stuff we're

into. Temper in all its wildness, MUSIC UNDER... electric

guitar beginning to match the energy and naked emotion of

the child.

Jeannie's feet start kicking in front of her--the person in

that seat turning sharply around.

She is crying now.

MORE MUSIC

Without warning, Jeannie slaps herself in the face. All five

people in the row ahead turn and say in unison:

ANGLE ON LIGHTS

As everyone starts pushing the cabin attendant call button.

These dings magnify until they're part of the music--as it

drives and drives... Matt takes Jeannie's hand and tries to

restrain her.

She breaks away from him. He moves after her.

CAMERA MOVING

At breakneck speed, Jeannie dashes through the plane with

her father in pursuit... flashes of disapproving faces. The

seat belt sign goes on. A FLIGHT ATTENDANT blocks his path.

Jeannie takes advantage of Matt's being stopped and moves

into the toilet, locking the door behind her.

A sudden bump and Matt falls. He yells to the locked door.

As Matt makes his way back, the Flight Attendant uses a hidden

latch to open the door. Music building--then calming, the

worst is over. Matt makes his way back to his seat, shell-

shocked. The Attendant leans over him.

He just nods.

FULL SHOT

Down the aisle--Jeannie lets an Attendant lead her as she

peers back at her dad.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Matt carrying the sleeping child like a sack over his

shoulder, also managing to hold onto all her luggage.

INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

He has propped her on the sofa, a cotton nightgown out. He

is unbuttoning her dress. She opens her eyes, the window's

protective bars PLACING A SHADOW ACROSS HER FACE. She attempts

to cover her fear.

Jeannie mimics him perfectly under her breath. She goes to

an open suitcase and throws things on the floor until she

finds the right jammies.

She surveys her pitiful choice; then points to the sleeping

bag.

She gets into it. He zips her up--then she says something

remarkably unexpected.

Amazed, Matt hugs her. A half-beat, then:

He does--then stands and looks down at her. She looks back,

mocking his stare with one of her own.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Nan uncertainly enters this decidedly masculine bathroom.

She is wearing an evening gown. The sun streams through the

lush foliage outside a wall-sized window. MUSIC as she opens

her purse and removes a pillbox; at one point lightly singing

a snatch of lyric concerning the conflicts of being a single

woman and a single mother--this while totally focused on the

pills.

INSERT - PILL BOX

A major movie shot of this compartmentalized box. Each

burrowed nest clearly labeled for the pill it contains:

VITAMIN B, VITAMIN A, OSCILLOCOCCINUM, PROZAC, CALCIUM, TEST

DRUG, ASPIRIN, XANAX, ETC.

ON NAN

MUSIC CONTINUES. She dials a phone number while arching her

neck and swallowing one pill after another with little swigs

of water. This process continuing, even as she speaks into

the phone.

She hangs up. Another snatch of lyric as she bends to brush

her teeth with her finger; prepares herself and opens the

door to greet her new lover.

INT. BURKE'S MASTER BEDROOM - DAY

Burke sits on the edge of the bed, fearful. He sees her.

She moves quickly to him.

Nan is dumbfounded; still she puts a hand on him, actually

consoling him for his hideous thought--Hollywood lovers: he,

wrapped up with ill thoughts of others; she, feeling intimate,

yet severely compromised. Cupid's work is done.

He eyes her, then:

INT. MATT'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

We hear a muffled argument between Matt and Jeannie coming

from inside their apartment. Then the door opens and Matt,

holding Jeannie by the hand, moves down the hall to the next

door and knocks. (NOTE: Jeannie is dressed in layers of varied

clothing--some of the layers play clothes, some fit for a

coronation. She is a pocket contemporary Annie Hall... her

style so much her own it transcends judgement. Her hair is

unkempt. The door opens revealing Lucy, an Hispanic woman in

her mid-30s.

Jeannie is a bit shy.

Jeannie says nothing.

Jeannie says nothing.

The form of the conversation is forged. Jeannie not answering

anything. Matt bending over to Jeannie while he forms her

answers to Lucy.

Jeannie walks into the apartment past her father.

INT. LUCY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Play-pen in the middle of the floor... Jeannie stands there

staring at Essa who is playing with her little brother. Matt

moves to embrace Jeannie who cranes away from him. He stays

with it, whispering in her ear.

As he exits towards his own apartment.

INT. MATT'S APT. - 20 MINUTES LATER

Matt is extraordinarily anxious. Then he HEARS loud crying

and screaming from next door. There is a stab of despair.

Matt deflates, then resigned, exits.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

The sound of screaming now louder. He walks to Lucy's door,

takes a breath and knocks. The door opens and Lucy stands

there looking rattled.

ON MATT

A devil's weight lifted from his shoulders. The slap-happy

smile of the just saved plastered on his face.

Lucy, confused by his buoyant reaction, nods.

He tries to kiss her, but she shuns him. Lucy, now having an

official status, turns to admonish her.

EXT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Burke walks tight little circles near Cathy and the rest of

his staff while a few feet away Studio Executives stand in a

cluster. There is a DISTANT, RHYTHMIC SHUFFLING SOUND. Burke

walks past Cathy.

INT. COUNTING ROOM - NIGHT

Where we discover the SOURCE OF THE SOUND. Some twenty card-

counters on the floor riffling through stacks of cards with

erasers. Matt and Nan stand in the doorway.

Matt laughs. In the b.g., the counting is completed.

The Group Captain notes the figure on a sheet, walks to the

doorway and hands it to Nan, who is still deep into

conversation with Matt. She begins walking back to the theater

without looking at the sheet in her hand.

FULL SHOT - THEATER AREA - NIGHT

Burke and others waiting as Matt and Nan come to a stop some

distance away.

Cathy has joined them.

Matt shifts, figuring out his answer.

Nan looks down at the score.

She starts for Burke.

ON BURKE AND OTHERS

As Nan arrives and hands the Studio Executives the score,

Burke looking over their shoulders.

She kisses his cheek and leaves. A beat of silence... Burke

turns to Nan.

Exactly the moment Nan has been waiting for... she does have

a valuable observation to offer at this dark moment.

As Burke looks at her from the depths of his pain and sees

her confidently believing that she has imparted something of

value, the movie's marquee lights go off giving us a:

INT. MATT'S HALLWAY - NIGHT

As he carries an enormously resistant Jeannie, wearing a

borrowed T-shirt nightie, back towards his apartment... Matt

has Jeannie under one arm--her clothes and shoes in another...

Jeannie's arms are extended towards Lucy, who stands in the

open doorway of her apartment. She begins thrashing. Giant

tears come--the moment is operatic.

Now her father's last words have registered on her--she

immediately stops crying, though tears still roll down her

cheeks.

Jeannie wriggles away towards Lucy's doorway. Lucy takes

several steps toward Matt, who obviously fears the looming

exchange.

Matt is very much like a fighter taking a great deal of

punishment, knowing he is beaten, but being told by his corner

he must make a fight of it. He nods his head repeatedly in

agreement...

Now he sniffs the air in quick rhythm, hoping to draw in

some courage and resolve. He moves to Jeannie.

INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

As they enter and Matt pushes her into the other room and

closes the door, placing her in there alone.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jeannie, behind the double glass-paneled doors of the bedroom.

HER POV

Matt, upset in a way he has never imagined, as he pops a

beer--puts on some headphones for calming music and begins

to read a book on child behavior modification.

ON JEANNIE

Feeling the restrictions of her punishment, pacing and now

she begins to wail "THIS LONELY LIFE". Few adult women have

sung with such appropriate passion out of need and loss,

aloneness and confusion. The song finishes. Jeannie sits

huddled.

EXT. ROOFTOP - DAY

This rooftop serves as an outdoor commissary for Popcorn

Pictures. There are a few tables, snack machines and

umbrellas. The whole "D" staff is there, including Cathy,

having lunch, along with Claire, the casting assistant. In

the b.g., we see Matt, huddled, sitting on the roof's awful

green outdoor carpeting, feeling much the same as Jeannie in

the previous scene.

ON MATT

Off in the distance, the Popcorn execs contentedly ply their

trade. As he overhears their conversation and the words begin

to register in all their horror.

Matt can take it no more. He hears a loud voice coming from

his own throat. He wigs out.

SHOT

As they all start to answer at once.

Matt rises and walks towards the Male D Person.

Matt is very close to him--he shakes his chair.

ON MALE D PERSON

Matt's manner is threatening. The Male D Person looks around

for some support and finds little... then Matt's tone

changes... it's reasonable, almost seductive.

ON CATHY

She is a ricochet victim of every word Matt says, as he

continues to indict the Male D Person and unknowingly reach

her instead. His fury grows and becomes more complicated,

containing an element of mourning.

The anger leaves Matt. He is depleted.

Cathy rises and begins to exit.

She exits. The D Person's Colleagues have taken advantage of

the beat to egg him on.

INT. STAIRWELL - DAY

A distraught Cathy is walking down as Burke bounds up.

He nods, but she pauses, disconcerted.

EXT. MATT'S APARTMENT - EVENING

As Matt exits his car with beaten down body language.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING

As he leads Jeannie briskly down the hall from Lucy's

apartment and into his own.

Moving very quickly and with great purpose, she slaps a tape

into a pink child's cassette player and MUSIC BEGINS...

Jeannie sings along with the child's chorus on the tape,

"YOU COULD BE WONDERFUL", making, with little hand motions,

the last thing Matt needs, but, in due course, he starts to

actually make a bit of transitional progress out of his own

troubles and into the fact that his daughter is beguiling.

But, before the mood can fully sweeten, Jeannie forgets the

lyrics and begins to verbally assault herself as the tape

continues to play...

The phone rings... As he goes to answer it...

His mood has changed. It's a fine sign that Cathy has called

him at home. He needs only for his child to take pity and

listen to him.

She decides, with some difficulty, to let him continue.

Jeannie mouths the words, "Who is it?" Matt holds up a finger

asking her to wait.

EXT. MATT'S STREET - EVENING

As Cathy drives past some rough examples of street life, and

finally finds Matt's building with its grim iron gate security

system. Cathy, uncomfortable in these surroundings, parks

her car, brushes her hair, while, at the same time, putting

in place a phony cheap-car-radio-sticker over her own

expensive system, and gets out.

INT. MATT'S APT. ENTRANCE - EVENING

She buzzes his apartment and waits.

In the b.g. WE HEAR Jeannie loudly imploring her father to

make the person wait till she's finished dressing. There is

the SOUND OF the buzzer. Cathy hurls herself at the door a

good four times before finally timing it right and gathering

the necessary strength to spill through.

INT. MATT'S HALLWAY - EVENING

Cathy stands there overhearing the voices from inside.

Cathy knocks. Matt opens the door.

He steps aside so Cathy may enter... The place is tidied up.

He has changed his clothes and Jeannie is wearing a lace

dress, fit for a young princess, complete with flowered tiara

and ballet slippers, with trailing blue ribbons at the heels

and a velvet cape.

ON MATT

Happy that Jeannie is behaving so well.

Jeannie is crest-fallen; for a horrible second, it looks as

if she may start to wail... Matt moves into action with a

pep talk.

She starts for the door, doubles back, and kisses a surprised

Cathy full on the lips... The gesture is beautifully, even

movingly carried off. It is totally false.

Jeannie is on the run... as she passes her father.

Jeannie nods acknowledgment as she flies past.

OTHER ANGLE

Favoring Cathy, Matt leans out the doorway until Jeannie is

safely next door, then re-enters.

Matt takes this in... takes this miracle in.

INT. BURKE'S BEDROOM - EARLY EVENING

A post-coital moment though only the man is visible; Burke,

who lies on the bed wearing a shirt and tie and nothing else.

Nan lies out of sight on the floor where she is recovering

from the deepest orgasm of her life.

Nan hauls herself into view, climbing back onto the bed.

She closes her eyes in a characteristic and touching gesture,

as the scientist in her struggles to be precise.

She focuses again on Burke. Prepared for, at last, some verbal

intimacy.

Nan breaks up, shaking her head ruefully.

Burke, not having intended humor, is also lighthearted, having

somehow avoided a tight spot.

EXT. CATHY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Matt, holding the script, walks the small lane through the

tidy lawn to the perfect Silver Lake cottage. We HEAR MUSIC

from inside. (A soundtrack.) There is a note on the door,

which is slightly ajar, reading: "Come right in if you loved

it--ring if you have reservations." Matt enters.

INT. CATHY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

White walls, thick rugs, great, great, fantasy garret; sparse,

but cozy. He walks a step, then there is a girlish squeal

and a naked Cathy streaks the rest of the way to her bedroom

from the bathroom.

She smiles broadly; hurriedly putting on something quick and

loose to match her buzz. As she walks to him, the phone rings.

She ignores it.

She sits on the sofa--looking at him.

Cathy peeks down her bathrobe. Then broadly.

An uncertain beat and then she leans over and kisses him. A

sound escapes him. They get up and begin walking to the

bedroom.

INT. CATHY'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

As they enter and move to the bed where Matt starts

undressing.

She twists her body gracefully, sexily towards the phone.

She twists toward the phone again--not quite so beautifully.

OTHER ANGLE

As she hits the "monitor" button, then turns back to him.

CATHY'S POV

Matt totally there... this is major for him, then he does

something sensitive... reads her concern over the depth of

his need and interest and shrugs, indicating he can't help

it.

ON CATHY

She likes him.

THE COUPLE

As they make love... their union thrown off kilter by the

phone messages which roll in periodically as they thrust and

sweat towards intimacy.

The love making continues as the calls continue.

Cathy, in the throes of sexual union, feeling a bit divided

by the offer on the phone... she shakes it off.

The sound of a hang up... the couple having more difficulty

making love...

ON CATHY AND MATT

As they look to the phone and react--still joined, then:

The sound of a hangup... As Matt springs from the bed.

INT. BURKE'S CAR - DAY

Matt driving. Burke in back as his anxieties gnaw away.

Burke reluctantly considers, then:

Burke laughs--surprised at being genuinely amused.

INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Matt, wildly dialing a phone--orange juice in hand, Jeannie

standing nearby. He shrieks one phrase.

INT. MAKE-UP ROOM - DAY

Matt is in the final process of being made up, going over

his lines. Cathy enters.

Matt is surprised... But he is a pro and so immediately makes

use of this sudden blip in status.

And then they're gone. With that bit of advice, Matt is

totally fucked up. A beat after Cathy leaves:

On their look...

They exit... Matt thumbs through the script... does a

relaxation exercise... takes a breath and thinks... a beat

and he is reasonably confident... he walks one half-circle

of the room making sure he's fully pumped, then exits.

EXT. POPCORN MOVIES - DAY

As crowded as it was for the previous audition scene, but

this time they are reading children of varied ages, and the

kids and their parents are all over the stairs, etc. Jeannie

is filled with wonder and is arrestingly and atypically shy,

as she makes her way through this world of the young, clinging

to Cathy's hand, as the kids sing their version of "MAKE

BELIEVE"--the stage parents taking one verse. At one point,

Cathy's begins talking to someone, blocking Jeannie's view.

All this noticed by a casting person with a clipboard.

INT. POPCORN PICTURES HALLWAY - SEVERAL HOURS LATER

Matt making his way past the last of the kid stragglers.

Cathy and Jeannie come running up to him.

Jeannie turns down her volume, but keeps repeating--incanting

actually... "I can't wait to tell him... I can't wait to

tell him... I can't wait to tell him..."

Cathy nods and Jeannie begins to push Matt into Cathy's office

for privacy.

INT. CATHY'S OFFICE

Jeannie sits her father down. This is the first time we've

seen her joyful. Pure glee.

The words coming so fast that Jeannie lets loose with a bolt

of SONG, as if taking a moment to catch her breath. Just a

few sung lines proclaiming happiness.

And the SUNG PHRASE.

The sung phrase again.

ON MATT

Stricken.

INT. CATHY'S OUTER OFFICE - DAY

Several people milling about... Matt eyes Cathy. We still

hear Jeannie's muffled singing from the other side of the

door.

EXT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY

As Matt and Cathy come into frame... Matt forcefully placing

her with her back to the wall. She is not one to be pushed

around.

Matt takes this in. Just a millimeter underneath his fury is

professional curiosity.

Cathy has nothing to offer. Matt begins leading her back. We

HOLD ON THEIR BACKS and see the chink in Matt's confidence,

hear the tightness in his voice as he asks:

They hold hands.

INT. MATT'S APT. - NIGHT

Jeannie, a script in her lap, caressing it, avoiding her

father's gaze. He sits nearby sizing her up, pissed.

She takes this shot hard, but tries to pretend otherwise,

continuing to stare hard at her script to avoid him.

She throws the script down. Tears in her eyes.

She's so down, she complies--picking it up and walking it to

the trash can. Matt stops her and takes the script.

INT. BURKE'S OFFICE - DAY

The staff of Popcorn Pictures is gathered in the boss' office

watching Matt's screentest on projection TV. Burke sits next

to Nan on a sofa--Cathy sits in front of him--others in chairs

or on the floor. One ASSISTANT is attempting to "fine tune"

the color--the TINT BAR GRAPH is on screen sliding between +

and - as the color changes. Burke talks sotto to Nan.

She ignores him, continuing to watch the screen. He leans

into her.

Cathy turns in her chair and mouths "thank you" to Nan.

ON SCREEN

A VERY ATTRACTIVE ACTRESS is crying... Matt very close to

her...

The COLOR BAR GRAPH does a quick slide and disappears from

the screen leaving the actors' faces green.

There is laughter in the room. The actress smiles through

her tears--pats Matt for being wonderful.

She kisses him. We HEAR the director say, "Cut. Terrific,

guys." The girl and Matt hug, no longer in character, as

others come in to congratulate them.

INT. SCREENING ROOM - DAY

Ad-libbed enthusiasm... mostly about the girl...

ON CATHY

As the conversation about the girl grows more pointed...

Cathy, impassive outwardly, recoiling inwardly.

Burke rises and addresses his staff... the camera has his

back in the foreground as it MOVES TOWARDS A RENDEZVOUS,

Burke moving too as he continues...

And now Burke and CAMERA meet up--the effect being that he

is talking directly to us as he continues.

They file out. Cathy gets up several beats later than the

others... and follows them out, avoiding Nan's look.

INT. CATHY'S OFFICE - EARLY EVENING

She's been sitting here for quite a while... she can postpone

no longer; she dials as one of her MOVIE SOUND TRACKS PLAYS

in the background.

She listens, waiting for him to quiet Jeannie.

She listens to him. He is hurt. Cathy, though, is also

wrestling with her own internal struggles. She has betrayed

him and is ashamed; in a strange way--terrified. She is,

therefore, just a little irritable.

INT. MATT'S APT. - NIGHT

As he hangs up...

She stops in mid-sentence, looking at her father. He is

overcome... his energy failing to get him past this most

awful moment in his life. She moves to his side. He starts

to cry and, urgently seeking privacy, he moves quickly towards

the bathroom, rubbing Jeannie in an instinctive gesture of

reassurance. He closes the door.

ON JEANNIE

Devoid of anger. Sympathy so pure that it wrenches. She starts

to move towards the bathroom. Her voice sweet...

Matt opens the door quickly.

He walks across the room, Jeannie tracking him.

Matt sits down, still suffering a bit of dysfunction, unable

to keep up appearances other than a few minor half-hearted

tweaks at his daughter who stands solemn and silent at his

side. She pets him some... this goes on for several beats as

the STRAINS OF "YOU COULD BE WONDERFUL" accompany the moment.

Then:

With some effort, Matt lifts his head and nods permission.

Matt nods, rises and leads her into the small kitchen.

INT. BURKE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Burke is wearing a T-shirt and shorts as he walks to his

four-stops-past-state-of-the-art Stairmaster and turns it on

while looking over his shoulder at the telephone... now

sucking in some courage, he goes to the phone and speed dials.

He begins to climb the stairs.

He braces himself... there is a tone, then:

MUSIC IN... At first from the speaker phone... Burke moving

in time to "THERE IS A LONELY..." And now singing... As the

lyric concludes and the instrumental comes in.

Burke smiles with pleasure... his steps becoming lighter,

more fanciful.

...and now his film, "Ground Zero," is coming up to bat...

as succor to the gods, he tries to make his dance gleeful in

anticipation.

Burke falls off his Stairmaster and, from his new position,

finishes his song.

INT. BURKE'S CAR - DAY

Matt is driving. Burke is seated alongside him, talking

without looking at him.

Now we HEAR Nan's voice on the speakerphone which Burke has

been addressing all along.

She laughs delightedly. Burke leans across Matt's lap to get

closer to the microphone.

He sits stupified.

He hits the "end" button. He slumps for a second, then:

EXT. POPCORN PICTURES - DAY

As the car arrives outside Popcorn Pictures, we can SEE some

child actors and their parents arriving at the sound stage

next door.

INT. TV STUDIO - DAY

A row of parents standing near their child actors, adjusting

them--not unlike handlers of racing Greyhounds.

ON JEANNIE

Seen from a distance--her father behind her. In the

foreground, the mass of workers on the stage, It is, in

effect, her POV, even though she is in the extreme background

of the shot. We MOVE CLOSER to Jeannie and her father--even

a bit behind them. Jeannie is scared.

Despite herself, she smiles at the reference, though her

tone is a bit sarcastic.

She breaks free, depriving Matt of the sweet and simple moment

he wanted with her. She's one of the first ones on the set,

other kids still hugging their parents. As Cathy comes up

behind Matt, we can HEAR Jeannie who, having so small a trust

for her father, needs to confirm what he just told her.

Matt reacts.

Jeannie is watching.

Matt looks him off fiercely. The Passing Voice addresses the

friendlier parents.

OTHER AREA - BEHIND GRANDSTAND SEATS

As they walk.

Cathy is as simple and direct as she is embarrassed.

He kisses her. She kisses back. Then there is an

extraordinarily loud and piercing voice.

He turns to see Jeannie beckoning to him from the stage--the

director, standing at her side, joins in. He walks to them.

ANGLE - STAGE FULL OF ACTORS

The Director is talking to Jeannie who seems, even from a

distance, distraught and lost. She sees Matt.

The Director beckons Matt to lead her away. He does.

She seems stung by this, unusually vulnerable. He changes

tactics, softening.

She grasps at this unlikely straw.

Jeannie pauses half a beat, then:

INT. MATT'S APT. - DAY

Matt on phone, Jeannie standing next to him reaching for the

phone.

Jeannie grabs the phone in a flash.

Jeannie sits herself by the window, protected by an iron

grill, and sits listening to her mother. There is about this

pose something prescient; unmistakably, Jeannie will look

this way again as a young woman cloaked in the love of some

guy... but for now it's her mother, her crazy mother, who

blots out dread. Matt is struck by how quiet and adoring

Jeannie looks even as he moves to give his daughter some

privacy. Several beats, Jeannie noticing her Dad looking at

her--switching positions, body language indicating that she

wants to put him out of her mind... then a thought.

Jeannie shushes him, resisting with surprising will and

strength when he tries to get the phone.

She hangs up. Matt pissed.

Jeannie reacts broadly... indicating what a difficult man

she's stuck with.

She goes quickly to the phone and picks it up.

INT. CATHY'S HOUSE - DAY

As she answers phone.

MATT'S VOICE IN BACKGROUND

Tell her, 'How are you' and then let me...

She does.

INT. MATT'S APT. - NIGHT

Jeannie, truly stung by the hang-up. She takes this act of

Cathy's as an insult to herself and her father. Matt doesn't

feel too wonderful about it himself.

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Burke and Nan eating together on an elevated balcony

overlooking the main eating area.

MUSIC IN as Burke leaves the table. This "Dance of

Desperation" is classical. Burke himself lifting one of the

women in greeting, then, as he puts her down.

As he continues to go from table to table.

TIGHT ON NAN

As she looks down on him, dying for him, we HEAR her sing

the song "Poor Bastards". Finally, not only about Burke--but

the other damaged souls he seeks to dance with. Now, Nan can

take no more. She exits.

FULL SHOT - BURKE

As he sees her go past in the background, he goes after her,

finally grabbing her near the Maitre D' station. This, just

as TWO IMPORTANT COUPLES arrive. Burke frantically tries to

cover.

They all nod and ad-lib agreements with her premise to Burke's

amazement.

She exits, enormously upset. Burke, torn between following

her and repairing the social damage. But the couples are

paying him no mind; rather they are impressed with Nan. As

they comment, i.e.

Burke accepts the compliments as if meant for him.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The strains of "Poor Bastards" underscoring the moment as

Burke rushes into the parking area and grabs Nan's hand just

as a valet brings her car.

She begins to cry. Ordinarily this would be a scene which

would be unendurable for Burke. However, the lesson of a

moment ago is not lost on him. As people get out of cars and

witness the sobbing Nan.

The reaction to his openness is disdain and passing contempt.

She drives off, leaving Burke hurt and alone. "Poor Bastards"

up and out.

INT. MATT'S APT. - NIGHT

The lighting soft and sweet. Jeannie's words are tentative

as she talks to her father who sits watching intently.

Matt laughs. Jeannie looks at him shyly... he looks at her

with encouragement. Suddenly she is in his arms, hugging him

hard, an emotional dam seems to have broken.

Matt holds on--clearly, deeply moved. Then he exercises the

effort to control his emotions and speaks, surprisingly, as

a Black woman.

She starts to flail a bit.

She is unable to resist muttering one sarcastic shot.

Jeannie doesn't know quite how to take the name calling.

MUSIC IN... we're heading for a rendezvous with a dance as

it CONTINUES ACROSS THE CUT TO:

EXT. TV STAGE - EARLY MORNING

Matt and Jeannie walking from the catering truck. They are

eating ravenously. MUSIC CONTINUES... VERY JOYOUS.

EXT. ROOF GARDEN - DAY

Matt reads from script.

Jeannie looks afraid.

Matt nods.

This acting exercise of Chicago's Story Theater leads into

the song, "BE MY MIRROR." As the song finishes, Matt and

Jeannie are in the best spirits we've seen as an A.D.

approaches.

She takes the A.D.'s hand as Matt calls.

INT. CATHY'S OFFICE - DAY

Cathy is in mid conversation with Millie. Matt enters and

boldly says his piece.

Millie, having been at the screen test viewing, is taken

aback, looking from one to the other. Cathy knows what she's

thinking and is unnerved, feeling silently accused, as she

leads Matt out.

EXT. STREETS - DAY

Cathy's car followed by Matt in Burke's car. The frame holds

both cars close as if this were one long car.

INT. CATHY'S CAR - DAY

She seems troubled. Then a decision. She dials a number on

her mobile phone and picks up the receiver.

INT. MATT/BURKE'S CAR - DAY

The phone rings. He punches the speaker button.

Matt waves...

FULL SHOT - THE TWO CARS

Almost bumper to bumper... snuggling.

ANGLE - CATHY

She takes a breath and then plunges.

INT. MATT/BURKE'S CAR - DAY

As he hears one of the more ominous phrases of the motion

picture community.

He picks up the phone. We intercut between the cars.

She pauses, silence, then:

EXT. NARROW CANYON ROAD - DAY

There is a longish line of cars behind Matt and Cathy.

INT. CATHY'S CAR - DAY

Matt manages to pull to the side... the other cars gobbling

the places behind Cathy, who sees this... and now she watches

Matt's car recede from her view.

MATT'S POV

Cathy going out of sight.

ON MATT

As he lets her go.

INT. BURKE'S HOME - EARLY MORNING

He is in bed, wearing a bathrobe, watching projection TV.

He switches channels.

He switches channels.

He turns off the TV and crosses to the phone, allowing us to

read the back of his bathrobe "ROCKY BALBOA."

ANGLE ON BURKE

He looks at the clock which reads "four a.m." and dials.

INT. NAN'S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

She has been crying.

Nan hangs up. Burke picks up a pocket electronic notepad

from the bedstand and hits the scroll button.

INSERT ELECTRONIC NOTEBOOK

Names and phone numbers.

ON BURKE

He scrolls past numbers, considering, finding them wanting,

so that, finally, he is scrolling the emptiness of his

relationships. Now he considers one number and dials.

INT. MATT'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

The phone rings. He picks it up.

INTERCUT BETWEEN THE TWO

INT. BURKE'S APARTMENT - EARLY MORNING

As he hangs up. Looks down and turns off his phone number

pocket computer. MUSIC RECALLS Prince's "There is Lonely."

EXT. TV STUDIO - LATE AFTERNOON

MUSIC SEGUES to recall "I'LL DO ANYTHING," as he drives past

the line waiting to see RAINBOW HOUSE.

(NOTE: FROM THIS POINT ON, THERE WILL BE AN UNDERCURRENT OF

CHOREOGRAPHY TO CONCLUSION...)

INT. MAKE-UP ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

We see Jeannie's face in the mirror, but it is seen through

something resembling fleece, which we now recognize as the

strands of Jeannie's hair being combed out to the side by an

expert hair-dresser. Jeannie is shifting nervously in the

large room where each chair is filled with a child of a

different age and color. In the b.g., we can HEAR the voice

of the WARM-UP MAN.

The audience laughs thinly. The BAND PLAYS as someone closes

the door to the make-up room muffling the offstage sound...

There is a good deal of tension in the brightly lit room.

Jeannie sits between a FOURTEEN-YEAR-OLD HISPANIC BOY and a

FOUR-YEAR-OLD ASIAN GIRL. The room is abuzz... kids running

lines and loudly talking... this builds to a musical life as

in our first audition scene... there is a briefly sung phrase

(Jeannie not taking part).

INT. GREEN ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

The parents, in the same variety of skin colors as the child

actors, are stuffed into a small room being patronized by

the ASSISTANT DIRECTOR. Matt is grimly seated in the middle

of a long sofa containing stage mothers. Another sofa is two

feet away; the parents strain at each other. The A.D. is

talking grandly but we cannot hear his words because the

Rainbow Parents are SINGING a phrase from the same song we

heard in the make-up room. Matt does not take part in the

singing. The music goes under allowing us to now hear the

A.D.'s words.

There is appreciative laughter from everyone save Matt, who

rises in disgust and crosses out of the room.

Matt ignores him and exits.

INT. BACKSTAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

MUSIC NOW EMPHASIZING THE TENSION OF THE PRE-SHOW ATMOSPHERE.

Matt, moving about the area, looking for Jeannie, spots a

cluster of other cast members excitedly awaiting their

introduction. Jeannie not among them. An A.D. talks with

concern to a P.A.

Matt, growing concerned, walks on, then:

MATT'S POV

Across the stage to the distant make-up room. Jeannie, alone

in the room, which is so brightly lit it creates a bizarre

effect, as if she were under a surreal spotlight. MUSIC

reprises Jeannie's Sinead O'Connor song, "Lonely Life of

Mine."

ON MATT

Stopping his impulse to go to her--he continues to observe.

MATT'S POV

Jeannie is nervous and uncertain... She plays with the handle

of the make-up chair... turns herself back and forth... Then

a very attractive TEN-YEAR-OLD BOY enters the scene--obviously

telling her to hustle... He offers his hand and she takes

it, instinctively masking all clues that this hand holding

is a "first" of great moment in her life. As they move toward

the main stage area, Jeannie looks around, needing

something... her dad.

She turns--sees her father and gives a small, cursory nod...

He moves quickly, drawing even with her but still giving her

a bit of space and a low-key pep talk.

Matt breaks up. Even Jeannie smiles briefly, then she takes

him aside for privacy.

This does not satisfy her. She rolls her eyes as she is pulled

away towards the front of the stage. Matt watches as the 10-

year-old veteran actor leads his little daughter towards her

debut.

INT. BACKSTAGE - LATE AFTERNOON - MOVING SHOT - BURKE

MUSIC, a tension-filled version of "Poor Bastard." Burke's

stride was never stronger, his posture never worse; head

hunched down into his neck. Suddenly, he reacts as he sees:

the staff of Popcorn Pictures grouped together backstage.

Cathy walking towards the group hurriedly from one direction

as Burke approaches from the other. Seeing his staff has

clearly moved Burke.

He starts off, but a jubilant Cathy stops him, whispers

something. He reacts with excitement.

MOVING WITH CATHY

She sees Matt deep in the wings watching the stage. She calls

to him with some urgency.

He turns and she beckons him towards her. With some hesitance,

he joins her.

He starts off.

Matt is terminally disappointed in her last cynical sentence.

From the stage, we HEAR the VOICE of the WARM-UP MAN.

There is applause. Matt's missed her intro.

She reacts, but he walks off, not wanting to get into it.

Cathy, however, has had a tricky nerve struck. She continues,

biting off each word.

MATT'S POV

Cathy, who looks alone and adorable as we HEAR MUSIC of "THIS

LONELY LIFE OF MINE." He puts a comforting hand on her. She

speaks nakedly from deep within herself; her eyes downcast.

And now she raises her eyes--big, blue and vulnerable. If

this look were returned, "I love yous" could flow--they could

sink to the floor in a joint epiphany; but there is no romance

or kindling in Matt's eyes. He is in a hurry. Pridefully,

Cathy turns and walks off in the opposite direction, her

flight so instinctive, she forgets her book bag. We hold on

this--her exit, then:

INT. STUDIO FLOOR - BURKE AND MATT - 20 MINUTES LATER

Standing just behind the four television cameras, immediately

behind them, the "rail" where the Show's Staff and Crew

Members and Network Bosses stand crowded, choreographed in

the way in which they "clear" for a moving camera. Behind

these people is the studio audience. There is a loud laugh.

Burke turns around to study the audience.

BURKE'S POV

Happy faces accompanied by the strains of Burke's love song

to the crowd...

But Matt doesn't hear him... a few feet away, Jeannie is

making ready for her big moment. Three cameras swing in front

of them, TV monitors showing a MASTER and CLOSE-UPS of the

three characters in the scene: a short comic WHITE MAN, the

Black Female Lead, and Jeannie, dressed as a poor child.

ANGLE - STAGE

The White Man jumps on the phrase.

A burst of laughter, whooping and applause from the audience.

Burke brags in a whisper to Matt.

ANGLE - STAGE

As they play out the scene.

ON JEANNIE

And Jeannie begins to falter... she must somehow cry at this

moment... She looks outward for help.

JEANNIE'S POV

She looks at the Lead Actress giving Jeannie all she can.

BACK TO JEANNIE

Jeannie still can't cry. She looks past the cameras.

JEANNIE'S POV

Her father nervously pulling for her.

BACK TO JEANNIE

That didn't do it either. She looks into herself... she blinks--

there are tears running down her cheek.

GROUP SHOT

Matt, very much as he was when he watched Brando on the

plane... and then some. Burke, craning to make sure the

network bosses are suitably transported.

BACK TO JEANNIE'S SCENE

The Black Lead Actress holds out her arms to Jeannie, who,

tears streaming down her face, runs towards the arms...

ON BURKE

His lips pursed tightly in pleasure, then agape in shock.

BURKE'S POV

Jeannie has run past the Lead Actress and off the set, going

into her father's arms instead. She jumps on him, her legs

and arms wrapped around him.

MATT AND JEANNIE

The background to this intimacy is enormously alive. The

Lead Actress and the Character Actor laughing out loud. In

the b.g., we see the audience filling out preview cards as

the FLOOR MANAGER leans in to say:

Matt starts to walk her back to the set.

Her answer surprises him.

He puts her down. She turns from him to go back to work but,

on impulse, he restrains her. He is kneeling down, holding

her lightly by the arms, her back to him as he states an

ultimate truth:

Jeannie, shocked by her father's unprecedented sentiment,

turns to face him and clamp a hand over his mouth so he will

add no more lush and primal affection. Having silenced him

though, she finds that she has something of her own to say.

She'd never tell it to her father, but she can't resist

telling it to her acting coach.

She does.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

The cast of Rainbow House taking off their make-up, changing

clothes, etc. This is more than high energy and excitement--

what's the opposite of trauma? All are off the wall with

pleasure--the MUSICAL LIFE of the earlier dressing room scene

returning--peaks of glee resulting in sung phrases as before.

Jeannie enters and is immediately surrounded with love,

attention and ad-libbed compliments about her work. In this

glare of good will, Jeannie turns gloriously shy.

ON JEANNIE

She moves to her dressing table--sits, looks in the mirror

and giggles uncontrollably.

INT. BACKSTAGE AREA - NIGHT

Matt stands waiting for Jeannie. Nan approaches.

Jeannie exits the make-up room aglow. She is wearing an

incredibly stylish outfit and her hair is in an expertly

done intricate braid.

To which Matt answers:

EXT. ROOF GARDEN - NIGHT

The door to the roof garden opens and Jeannie enters--her

dad behind her as she sees the party... the sparkling lights,

the decorations, the other kids and MUSIC... our opening

song... "WOW".

ON JEANNIE

As her father urges her into the flow. She passes Millie,

who is dancing with the boy who held Jeannie's hand.

They begin to dance with the others. MUSIC SLOWS IN TEMPO as

we indicate TIME PASSAGE and:

ANGLE ON BURKE AND MATT

Perched on a ledge eyeing the party.

He gets off the ledge and starts to move away... Burke moves

quickly to cut him off.

THEIR POV

Jeannie, working her way to the absolute middle of the cast

picture, where she plops on someone's lap.

BACK TO SCENE

He walks away. Burke waves a grateful goodbye and looks around

the room until he sees:

BURKE'S POV - NAN ACROSS THE ROOF

Nan eating cake with her hands. She sees him. He indicates

he would like to dance. She does not move a muscle in

response... Still, he walks towards her. She begins to shake

her head, "no." He shifts uncomfortably, but keeps coming

until he reaches her side.

ON NAN AND BURKE

As they dance.

Several more beats of dancing--as he awaits her answer.

SONG BACK--"WOW"... sung as a chorus... a slower cadence for

the romance as we... CHANGE MUSIC and they dance more closely.

The song slows for time passage and MUSIC CHANGES to "BE MY

MIRROR" as we...

EXT. DESERTED POPCORN PICTURES ROOM - ONE HOUR LATER

Matt and Jeannie--the last ones there. He holds her in his

arms, dancing. She is asleep. He dances her to a chair with

her wrap on it... shifts her around, wrestling to get it on.

She wakes up and puts it on herself.

He takes her hand and starts to lead her towards the stair

shed--then:

She looks up, smiling pridefully, to see her father smiling

back pridefully.

She bows. It is a bow all her own.

