"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages     5-23-08   4.

A joyous Sunday. OPEN ON the LETTER BOARD of THE VIRGINIA

BEACH CHURCH OF GOD. The date reads, MARCH 1984.

A congregation packs the church to the rafters as a

Lawrence Welk-ish CHOIR praises Jesus to the tune of

Hallelujah! We Shall Rise.

Amidst this white-man's paradise sits a smiling and

healthy STEVEN- playing the organ with a happy-stick

planted firmly up his ass.

As the joyous flock whoops it up, Steven winks to his

wife (DEBBIE) and their 4 YEAR OLD DAUGHTER (STEPHANIE)

who sit in the first row.

Steven, oblivious, hits a sour note or two-- but keeps on

playing with happy abandon. The crowd continues to enjoy

the inspiring hymn.

A police receptionist (MANDI) at a switchboard in a small-

town police station answers the phone.

Steven enters in UNIFORM, smiling wide. Mandi waves

happily. She covers the receiver and whispers.

As he nods and moves on he's greeted by a VARIOUS

POLICEMEN. We can tell he's well liked.

Steven arrives at his desk to find a large FILE BOX. He

turns it around to reveal writing on the side. It reads,

"BASHAM, BRENDA"

Establishing of the empty parts of the home.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages    5-23-08   7.

Debbie quickly realizes where his head is at.

Steven shrugs.

She moves to get up. Steven takes umbrage.

Steven thrusts and tenses.

Steven flips through the file box, reading through

various pages. Debbie watches with compassion as he

reads. Eventually he cracks an incredulous SMILE.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08     8.

He reads on, his smile ever widening until-

He comes across something that concerns him and his voice

trails off. His smile fades, replaced by a look of dread.

Debbie grows concerned.

He cannot believe his eyes.

Steven walks up to a middle class home and raps on the

screen door. A kindly woman (MRS. BASCOMBE) arrives

behind the mesh wearing a birthday PARTY HAT.

An ashen look overcomes Mrs. Basham's face. She removes

her hat.

Steven can see that behind her is a small FAMILY

GATHERING at the table, grouped around a BIRTHDAY CAKE.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages    5-23-08    10.

The ideal suburban American barbecue is in full swing at

the new Russell household.

In a series of brief vignettes, Steven shows off the

house, his family and his new corvette.

A happy Steven moves through the backyard with a plate of

meat fresh off the grill.

Continuing past the buffet he enters the dining room to

find SIX YEAR OLD STEPHANIE (same actress) happen past.

Steven lovingly scoops her up without a thought.

He turns to see Debbie across the room talking to a YOUNG

COUPLE. She waves him over.

He puts her down and heads over to Debbie and the couple.

They all burst into loud breaking-the-ice laughter.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages     5-23-08    12.

And as they giggle and play wrestle...

Amidst the moonlit shadows, the THUMPING of VIGOROUS

LOVEMAKING is heard. It continues, getting louder and

louder until we make out two forms doing it doggie-style

in the bed.

Building to the climax, Steven moans with pleasure.

Suddenly we see the face of the MOUSTACHED MAN he's

fucking.

We are back with Steven in his hospital bed at the

Penitentiary.

WE'RE BACK on the hilltop from the beginning of the

movie.

Nine year old Steven and his three young FRIENDS crest

the verdant hill- running and laughing through the

backlit dandelion fluff of an idyllic summer day.

They all collapse into the long grass like the splayed

arms of a starfish. Catching their breath, they stare up

at the sky- searching for shapes in the clouds.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"    Green Pages   5-23-08     13.

They look at him with incredulity.

There is a long silence.   Then-

And as the other boys squint closely...

Once again, the MOUSTACHED MAN throws his head back in

the throes of lust.

Steven drives it home.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages       5-23-08   14.

The Moustached Man and Steven say goodbye at the door.

Steven drives his red Corvette, hard top removed, with a

contented look on his face. He glows as the Pet Shop

Boys' "West End Girls" plays on the radio.

CRASH! A CROSSING PICKUP TRUCK smashes into the driver

side door-- violently propelling steven and his corvette

out of frame.

Badly mangled and triaged, Steven stares intently at the

night sky with his one good eye as Paramedics remove him

from the ditch on a back-board. The remains of the

corvette are all around.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages   5-23-08   15.

Debbie walks alongside a DOCTOR, deeply concerned and

listening to his assessment.

Debbie enters the room to find Steven, bandaged and

bristling with tubes.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages      5-23-08   16.

He turns his head to her and smiles wide.

Debbie freezes, she can't believe her ears.   And as she

stares at his smiling face in shock...

VINTAGE MAMBO MUSIC. Palm trees line an upscale Palm

Beach shopping district. Well-heeled nabobs cruise the

boulevard, shopping and being seen.

Two MINIATURE DOBERMAN PINSCHERS on a tandem leash appear

from around a corner soon followed by the NEW STEVEN with

a handsome young man on his arm (JIMMY KEMPLE).

Steven's pajama-like clothes, perfect tan and loose

demeanor make him the very essence of a man with new

found freedoms.

DANCE MUSIC THUMPS as Steven passes around a tray of

drinks to friends.

When everyone is served, he raises his glass and let's

loose a PARTY HOOT. They concur and drink.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages   5-23-08   17.

Steven leans over and makes out with Kemple.

QUICK CUTS of Steven enjoying his gay life with Kemple at

BOUTIQUES, SALONS, RESORTS, GYMS, HAUTE CUISINE

RESTAURANTS, etc...

Steven inexplicably pours cooking oil out onto a grocery

store aisle with a basket slung over his arm.

SLIP-WHAM! Steven throws himself in the air and falls

flat on his back with a scream.

And as people gather around, he grasps his neck and moans

litigiously--

OPEN CLOSE on A PARALEGAL. She opens a briefcase and

removes an envelope.

CUT TO REVEAL Steven holding crutches at his side, across

from a few LAWYERS. The paralegal hands him the envelope.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08    18.

With great difficulty, Steven gets on his crutches and

makes his exit.

An OLD WAREHOUSE MANAGER emerges from a darkened AMITY

FOODSERVICE trailer with a crate of tomatoes in hand. As

he steps out onto the dock, he passes Steven, who is

talking with a 500 pound PRODUCE MANAGER.

Tomato crates are all around.

And as they talk-

Steven stands before a SALESPERSON at a counter.

Steven flips through a handful of identical CREDIT CARDS.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages     5-23-08   19.

He gives a card to a smiling SALESWOMAN.

And as Steven riffles through an equally large stack of

DRIVER'S LICENSES...

Steven stands atop a escalator, looking around.

He throws himself down the escalator, out of frame to the

floor below. Painful tumbling is heard.

At the BOTTOM of the escalator a hard THUD is heard.      A

beat later, Steven's feet slide into frame.

CHRISTMAS MUSIC.

Dressed in pajamas, Steven and Kemple sit cross-legged at

the base of their Christmas Tree, surrounded by torn

paper and strewn gifts. Steven's arm is in a cast.

Kemple opens a hinged case to reveal a GOLD Rolex watch.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages       5-23-08   20.

He takes out another box and hands it to Kemple.

As he opens it, Steven grabs the gold Rolex.

Kemple smiles broadly as he admires his new watch.

The PHONE RINGS. Steven rushes to answer it.

Debbie, on the phone, is INTERCUT. Stephanie is in the

background, opening gifts at the base of their tree.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages    5-23-08   22.

And as Steven listens to Debbie's rant--

Steven exits an elevator and saunters into work, happy as

ever. He passes the AMITY FOODSERVICE Logo and a CHERUBIC

SECRETARY.

Steven quickly gets a deeply concerned look on his face

as he approaches his office.

The door is slightly ajar. He secretly peeks in to see...

TWO FEDERAL MARSHALLS wait in Steven's office. He

instantly knows what's going on.

Steven paces nervously outside the elevator, growing more

and more anxious as he waits.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages   5-23-08   24.

He readjusts to see Jimmy sitting nearby.

Confident that Steven is calm, Jimmy steps into the hall.

Jimmy joins Debbie and the Cop in the hallway.    Steven is

visible in bed through the glass.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08    26.

After that, he dresses and walks out the door behind

them.

Just then Debbie notices Steven is not in bed and looks

up in time to see him disappearing around the corner.

Debbie, Kemple and the Cop exit the hospital and look

around frantically. They spot him running across the open

air lot and give chase.

Steven comes to a stairwell door. It's locked. He runs

some more and finds himself cornered at the guard rail.

Kemple, Debbie and the cop slowly approach. Steven

glances over the guard rail. ONE FLOOR DOWN is an OPENED

DUMPSTER.

Steven looks down again. Kemple knows what he's thinking.

Steven looks down. The soft bags of trash below beckon

him to freedom.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages    5-23-08     28.

Steven escorts Arnie through the prison, waving to

various inmates and guards along the way.

He moves on.

Steven and Arnie stand at the door of the prison's law

library.

Arnie has no response. Steven points across the library

where a menacing OLDER INMATE studies a law book.

Steven and Arnie stand outside the empty cafeteria.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages   5-23-08   29.

Arnie notices one of the INMATES working in the kitchen

SPITTING a loogey into the mashed potatoes. He mixes it

in and CACKLES with glee.

Steven pays no mind.

A mean-looking con named GARY mans a mail-cart while he

talks with Steven and Arnie.

Steven turns to Arnie.

Steven and Arnie arrive at the doorway of their cell.

Arnie thinks a moment.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08   30.

Steven gently shoves his new cellmate into the cell.

Steven is on one of the many pay phones.

BEEP.

Steven is holding the stainless steel ROLEX he gave

Kemple as a gift. He regards it wistfully.

He hangs up. Bored and lonely, he has a moment of repose.

Just then, a loud RUCKUS across the COMMON AREA gets his

attention.

Steven watches as a group of ROWDY PRISONERS throw

whatever they can find at a small BIRD as it flies

around, trapped in the cavernous hall.

The men LAUGH and HOOT as the bird is struck down and

lies motionless on the ground.

As the prisoners resume their activities, Steven notices

a GENTLE LOOKING INMATE approaching the bird.

Rapt, Steven watches as the inmate sympathetically scoops

up the bird and walks off. Steven is quite taken.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08   31.

The gentle inmate, PHILLIP MORRIS, is a slightly built,

handsome blonde boy-man. He struggles to reach a book on

a high shelf. Helpless and irresistible, he is surprised

when Steven reaches in to help retrieve the book.

Their eyes lock and they stare in a short silence, until-

Steven acknowledges his kindness with a smile.

Steven is intrigued.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08   33.

Steven takes this to heart.

Phillip smiles.

Steven sits close to Phillip at a table. A large open law

text lies between them.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages    5-23-08   35.

Phillip is melting but tries to hide it.

Steven smiles wide as if to throw down the gauntlet.

Phillip turns to walk away and hides his giddyness.

Phillip passes the cells of Michael Unit, clutching his

belongings and soon enters his cell. He looks around

sheepishly until he is interrupted-

Phillip turns to see CLEAVON- a huge black inmate mopping

the hall outside his cell

He tosses Phillip a folded note.      He catches it and looks

at it with a smile.

Phillip opens it up. As he reads, his face brightens

considerably.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages     5-23-08    36.

Phillip looks at the spare roll of toilet paper and turns

it over. A small chocolate bar is stuck in the tube.

OPEN CLOSE ON a note as Phillip scrawls it.

As his VO continues, Phillip folds up the paper and

passes it through the bars back to Cleavon.

VARIOUS SHOTS as we follow the note being passed by

different hands and means throughout the prison on its

way to Steven.

Steven reads the letter on his bunk.

Steven finishes the letter and folds it up, looking

strangely expressionless.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages       5-23-08   37.

Phillip peers out of his cell to see Cleavon working his

way nearer with his mop. He's giddy.

Moments later, Cleavon passes him by. Phillip is bummed.

Again Phillip watches as Cleavon passes his cell without

leaving a note.

Phillip lays in bed, impatiently. He seems upset. He

anxiously peers out the bars and catches a glimpse of the

mopping Cleavon working his way closer to his cell.

Phillip slumps back onto his bed, depressed.

A few moments later, he's startled by the CLANG of his

cell door sliding open.

He looks up - a CORRECTIONS OFFICER stands over him.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages     5-23-08   38.

This is no consolation to Phillip. He heaves a heavy sigh

until he sees STEVEN enter his cell, clutching a pile of

belongings.

Phillip is overwhelmed as the cell door slams shut behind

Steven.

Steven slowly moves closer.

Steven gently caresses Phillip's face. Phillip is

melting. Then suddenly, Phillip grabs Steven's ass.

They launch themselves onto the bunk and as they get to

business...

Phillip and Steven spoon in a glowing post-coital cuddle.

There's a moment of silence, then a realization...

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages    5-23-08    39.

They get a GIGGLE out of this.

Phillip shrugs, but before he can reply- a piercing human

SCREECH interrupts him.

The inmate who spit a loogey into the mashed potatoes in

the cafeteria is sitting up on his bed, SCREECHING at the

top of his lungs. This is "THE SCREECHER"

Phillip continues to talk.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages    5-23-08   40.

The Screecher continues his routine.

Phillip emerges from the line munching on a candy bar

when he notices a ruckus on the other side of the fence.

He wanders over to see a LARGE PRISONER beating the crap

out of the Screecher.

As guards descend on the two, the Large Prisoner

continues to beat on the screeching SCREECHER.

Phillip sidles up next to a BALD PRISONER.

Reclined on his bunk, Steven does a crossword puzzle.

Phillip enters, standing by the door.

Steven sits up.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages    5-23-08   41.

A tear comes to Phillip's eye.

He clamps onto Steven and hugs with all his life.

And as they roll on the bed playfully...

CLEAVON lays on his cot staring at the ceiling.

Eventually a hand enters through the bars holding a

cassette tape.

Phillip's hand disappears for a moment and comes back

with a FIVE DOLLAR BILL.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages   5-23-08   42.

Cleavon takes the cash and puts the tape in a BOOM BOX.

A familiar romantic TUNE begins to play...

He buries his head in the pillow as "Chances Are" plays.

As the MUSIC seeps into their dark cell, Steven reads a

LAW BOOK by pen light. Phillip grabs Steven's hand and

tries to pull him off the bed.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages      5-23-08   43.

He drags him up and begins his lesson.

Steven stumbles his way through the slow dance for a

while, but with Phillip's help he begins to settle in.

Soon they are nestled into each other, swaying sweetly to

the music.

The MUSIC CONTINUES as a group of prisoners watch a VHS

copy of GHOST on a TV.

Phillip wipes away a tear and Steven holds him closer

while, in the front row, a ONE-EYED LATINO jerks off to

the sight of Demi Moore.

MUSIC CONTINUES as tray after tray is filled with gray

slop. This persists until suddenly two of the trays

receive a beautiful STEAK and some SHRIMP.

Steven nods at the Slopmaster and offers a wink to a very

impressed Phillip.

MUSIC CONTINUES as Phillip and Steven shave side by side,

smiling at one another.

MUSIC plays on as Steven and Phillip continue their

romantic dance.

They are unfazed as the lights in the cellblock go out

with the loud sound of circuits tripping. They dance on.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages       5-23-08   44.

Eventually, the hollow sound of Johnny Mathis

reverberating through the block is the only thing we

hear. They dance on.

They continue to dance. Footsteps approaching are heard.

CLANK! OFFSCREEN we hear the cell door open and the sound

of a scuffle is heard.

And as the sounds of a horrendous beating echo through

the cellblock, Phillip and Steven dance their dance-

oblivious to all but each other.

Phillip and Steven sleep soundly together in the bunk. A

CLAXON blares and their cell door OPENS- accompanied by

the sound of a dozen others.

They barely stir until-- CLANG-CLANG-CLANG! A GUARD hits

the bars with his club.

Steven and Phillip are rudely awakened.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages    5-23-08     46.

Phillip runs through another cell block until he comes to

a window. He looks outside.

PHILLIP'S POV: Steven is waiting in line with some other

prisoners to board a bus.

Phillip can be seen through the small window, but he

fails to get Steven's attention.

He bangs silently on the glass.

Phillip continues in vain to get Steven's attention.

He sees the line at the sally port start to move and

stops to think. He knows what he has to do.

Phillip runs down a breezeway. Eventually he reaches a

heavily populated gate, manned by a YARD GUARD.

The Yard Guard pushes a button that opens the gate and

Phillip bursts through.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages    5-23-08   47.

Phillip runs through the yard, passing GIANT WOLF-

WHISTLING INMATES as they put down their weights and stop

their basketball games.

Phillip maintains his focus on the sally port on the

other side of the far fence.

Boarding the bus, Steven hears him and turns. Delighted,

he's forced on board by a Guard before he can respond.

Steven gets in his seat and yells out the window.

VROOM! The bus starts up and begins to move.

The bus drives off. Phillip runs along with it for a

while as they share a long goodbye. And eventually, the

bus disappears from view.

Phillip clings to the fence a moment, hanging on to hope.

He slumps and turns-

-only to find himself confronted by several HULKING

MEMBERS OF THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD with one thing on their

minds.

Phillip marches right toward them and as he draws close-

Startled, they split to let Phillip pass unmolested.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"      Green Pages   5-23-08   48.

Back in the present, Steven remains in his hospital bed

at the Penitentiary Infirmary.

CLANG!   The gate of the prison closes behind Steven as he

exits.   He approaches a waiting TAXI.

Steven gets in.

The car pulls out, the prison receding behind them.

The same taxi pulls up in front of the prison and Steven

emerges with a BRIEFCASE, wearing a THREE-PIECE SUIT.

He rings the buzzer at the front gate.

Steven approaches the DUTY OFFICER.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages     5-23-08   49.

The guard checks his roster.

Phillip enters to see Steven waiting for him on the other

side of the glass. Thrilled, he rushes to the phone.

They share a smile.

Steven stands over a desk, talking sternly into a

telephone.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages    5-23-08   50.

PULLOUT to reveal he's actually standing behind a

KROEGER'S SUPERMARKET DELI COUNTER in uniform as a

HOUSEWIFE waits impatiently. He hangs up.

She smiles back.

Steven slides paperwork through a slot in plexiglass

window toward a RELEASE OFFICER.

The Officer glances at the paperwork.

CLANK-CLANG. The door begins to open as the Officer

stamps some of the paperwork.

Phillip runs into his arms. As they kiss, the officer

offers a surprised look.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"       Green Pages   5-23-08   51.

A PARTY to celebrate Phillip's release. Steven and

Phillip stand at the door as FRIENDS file in and greet

him boisterously.

Another friend enters.

Steven looks to Phillip, perplexed.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08    52.

Steven works his way through the crowded apartment

struggling to hold a few cocktail glasses for guests.

He eventually arrives next to Phillip, who is having a

great time with another friend- and older woman named

EUDORA MIXON.

Steven doesn't miss a beat. He smiles wide.

Phillip beams with pride over Steven's decision.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages    5-23-08   53.

Eudora waits on a bench in the corridor, nervously

glancing at her watch. Steven stands behind a column

down the hall hiding and watching. He looks at his

watch, then approaches her.

STEVEN'S POV: A beautifully ornate courthouse LIGHT

FIXTURE hangs from a courthouse ceiling.

ON STEVEN, staring up at it with admiration.

Steven snaps out of it and responds to a waiting JUDGE.

Eudora glances into Steven's opened BRIEFCASE. It

contains only a SANDWICH and a PHOTO OF PHILLIP.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08   54.

The shocked LAWYER turns to his client (EVANS).

He regroups and addresses the judge.

Steven is stonewalled. He looks to Eudora as if to say,

"What do I do now?" and it terrifies her.

Desperate, Steven bangs his fist on the table and looks

resolutely to the judge.

The judge and lawyer seem mystified by this response.

The Lawyer sits impatiently while Steven peruses a wall

of plaques, photos and diplomas. He focuses on a law

school DEGREE from INDIANA COLLEGE OF LAW. Next to it, a

PHOTO of the judge as a YOUNG MAN on a farm. He's from

humble roots.

A moment later, the Judge enters.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages      5-23-08   56.

Outside the courtroom with Eudora, Steven is ecstatic.

Phillip stands flabbergasted next to Steven in the middle

of a large modern apartment.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"   Green Pages       5-23-08   57.

Phillip smiles.

PALM TREES undulate on the constant breeze, inviting us

to a beautifully solitary cove. Eventually Steven and

Phillip's voices are heard.

DIALOGUE CONTINUES OVER VARIOUS SHOTS of their romantic

getaway to the Keys. In a SERIES of SHOTS we see where

they've been and what they've been doing in the moments

AFTER they've been there.

- A Hammock blowing in the breeze.

- A quaint COTTAGE nestled in the vegetation.

- Half empty glasses of beer on the porch.

- Dirty dishes in the cottage sink. The remains of a

romantic meal on a table. The swaying palms are visible

through the windows.

- Footsteps in the sand.

- Two beach chairs facing the surf.

- Etc...   etc...

"I Love You Phillip Morris"    Green Pages      5-23-08   59.

And as the sun sets on the shimmering water--

An empty 21-foot MOTORBOAT bobs atop placid seas, fishing

poles dangling over the side. The SOUND of two men

enjoying themselves can be heard.

After reaching their inevitable conclusion, the VOICES

gasp for air.

Phillip spits something over the railing...                      *

And as Phillip smiles and wipe his chin.                         *

A bored Steven waits in the middle of a big wig's office.

He looks at PHOTOS on a nearby wall of a broad-shouldered

all-American man dressed in a NASA jump suit performing

various astronautical training tasks.

He picks up a small ASTRONAUT FIGURINE and examines it.

Steven turns to find Dan Lindholm, the broad-shouldered

man himself.

"I Love You Phillip Morris"     Green Pages   5-23-08   61.

Steven makes breakfast in his tightie-whities while

talking on the phone. Phillip is in the background doing

a crossword puzzle at the kitchen table.

In his own world, Phillip chimes in.

Steven covers the phone with his hand.

Dan continues to wax on about Steven.

As Steven pretends to mull--

An uptight assistant (RHEBA) leads Steven into his fancy

new office.

