He looks at his phone.

He leaves the room.

Jamie is on the phone, running down a corridor.

Malcolm finishing listening to his voicemail, dialling

and running back into the building, pushing past a crowd

of smokers at the doorway.

Lots of delegates drinking and eating and chatting. We

glimpse Linton, Karen, General Miller. Sir Jonathan is

there, mingling.

Malcolm approaches Simon, Toby, Judy and Sir Jonathan.

Malcolm's had enough goes over and grabs Sir Jonathan,

mid-conversation, and manhandles him away.

Meanwhile Judy and Toby are left alone - Toby embarrassed

about his comments.

Malcolm drags the ambassador into a corner.

He's blocking Malcolm. Malcolm grabs his hand.

He is almost man-handling him in.

Jonathan breaks off and under his own steam prepares to

go in.

As Malcolm is leaving Miller blocks his path.

They eyeball each other. Is Miller going to hit him? He

doesn't.

Sir Jonathan walks in. A lot of faces are turned towards

him, expectantly.

Karen and Miller are looking at a computer screen,

presumably reading about Simon's floated resignation.

Simon passes their open door.

Karen and Miller go into a confab.

Karen and Miller immediately go into a huddle and start

planning Simon's future.

Toby and Liza are sitting near each other on the floor

working on laptops. They're at right-angles to each

other. Toby has a view of Liza. She's facing away from

him.

Simon is sitting in the Meditation Room, a stark chapel-

like room with a big piece of granite in the middle of

it. He's biting his nails, thinking.

Judy comes in.

He pulls out some mints.

Simon eats a mint.

He's lost in his own world. Staring, maybe slightly

nodding at the thoughts in his own head.

A beat.

Simon eats another mint. Sits there noisily sucking it.

Judy leaves.

Michael and Suzy are sitting talking in an FO office.

Jamie bursts in.

He pushes a fax casually off the table onto the floor.

He kicks the fax machine again.

Advances on Michael, becomes aware of the music. Jamie

points to the CD player.

Michael doesn't turn it off, so Jamie does.

Jamie is heading off.

Jamie leaves.

Malcolm and Linton enter. We see Simon's mints lying on

the big stone in the middle of the room.

Simon comes in to retrieve his mints.

Malcolm glances at Simon.

Simon stays where he is. Linton starts laughing. Toby

enters, watches in amazement.

A beat.

Linton laughs again.

Linton walks out.

Simon stares at Malcolm. He takes a mint and pops it in

his mouth.

Simon exits.

Toby leaves.

Malcolm sits down, head in his hands.

The delegates are still mingling. Toby is there now.

Toby's phone goes. He answers.

Liza comes over.

Liza leaves.

The Vice President starts to walk by. Toby sees him,

wants to shake his hand.

The Vice President has gone.

INT. FOREIGN OFFICE - SAME TIME

Michael and Suzy in Michael's office, classical music in

the background. Michael's clearing his desk, putting

stuff in boxes. Jamie bursts in on Michael and Suzy, his

phone still on.

Michael is now scared of what he's being asked to do.

Michael looks at Suzy. She doesn't know what to say or

do.

He drags Michael out of the office.

On the closed door of the Meditation Room. Malcolm

suddenly bursts out, re-energised, ready for action. He's

in the middle of a call.

One of the doors he pushes open has a coffee machine in

it. Toby is there getting a coffee. Malcolm gestures to

him to come along. Toby joins Malc in his jog through the

corridors, spilling his coffee on his hands as he goes

and scalding himself.

They stop.

Toby goes.

Malcolm pushes open another door. Sir Jonathan Tutt is in

there.

Sir Jonathan walks in. A lot of faces are turned towards

him, expectantly.

Jamie has taken Michael into a tiny windowless office.

Michael's hunched at his laptop, looking at the Pwip-Pip

document on his computer. Jamie stands right over him,

ominously.

Jamie's phone goes.

Toby is standing in front of Malcolm, holding his laptop

up for Malcolm to look at and a physical copy of the red

Pwip-Pip folder. He's also got the Pwip-Pip file on

screen.

Michael does.

Michael does it.

Michael stops what he's doing.

Toby sticks Pwip-Pip in his mouth so he's got a hand free

to initiate MSN messenger.

Malcolm types something on the laptop while Toby holds it

up for him.

Jamie picks up Michael's hand and pulls out his index

finger and places it on the delete key.

Malcolm approaches Toby.

Toby runs off.

Malcolm walks in. He holds up his blue folder.

Malc hands over the folder and walks out.

Linton, with Adriano now back beside him AND LIZA, is

waiting for hush from the assembled US delegation,

including Miller.

The delegation starts filing out.

The Brit delegation are gathered round a screen in a

corridor showing the main debating chamber. The mood is

sombre.

Judy looks at Malcolm. Malcolm looks straight ahead at

the screen, nods, impassive.

The mood is quietly buzzy. Job well done. Liza is there

too.

They shake hands with various colleagues.

A TV shows BBC News 24's report on the vote. Jamie is

stroking Michael's hair in a sweet and therefore very

very scary way. Michael's staring ahead pretending it

isn't happening.

INT. UN OFFICE - DAY

Karen enters. Chad is there too with General Miller.

Karen turns away from him.

She goes.

Miller walks off.

Simon's on the phone to the wall man.

Simon sees Malcolm coming along. Starts to head back into

the shared office.

He rings off, Malcolm catches up with him in the office

Toby comes over.

Yes?                               Yes?

A silence while Simon and Toby realise there is nowhere

for him to go.

Simon doesn't know what else to do. Toby goes to get his

laptop. Miller is having a cigarette under a no-smoking

sign.

Toby hurries off looking crushed. Miller takes another

drag on his cigarette.

INT. STATE DEPARTMENT. DAY

Linton is going through a list with Liza. General Miller

is sitting in on this meeting, looking slightly like a

man who's being shafted up the ass and having to pretend

to enjoy it.

INT. CONSTITUENCY OFFICE. DAY.

Simon is back with Roz.

Simon looks zonked with boredom.

Malcolm is walking through the open-plan office with

Judy. In the background we see Toby getting the last of

his things together.

The NEW MINISTER and her ADVISOR arrive. They are almost

carbon copies of Simon and Toby.

She points at Toby's desk. The Minister and his advisor

start making themselves at home.

We stay on Toby now as Malcolm and Judy greet the new

guys.

Toby grabs the last of his things, glances over at them,

and them we follow him as he heads down the front steps.

