EXT. CAVEMAN VILLAGE - THE PALEOLITHIC ERA - DAY

A small caveman community made up of five large caves, all

facing out towards a crackling fire.

Slack-jawed, yet strong and confident CAVEMEN stumble about,

dragging haunches of meat, pounding the dirt with sticks,

dragging the women.

WE PAN OVER to a small cave. Not even really a cave at all,

but a crack in the rocks barely large enough to sleep in.

Stepping out of this "cave" is a small, weak, nerdy-looking

caveman.

The chief caveman, set apart by the large mallet he wields,

steps towards the fire and grunts loudly to mark the

beginning of a caveman meeting.

"Loser caveman" steps forward apprehensively, only to be met

with laughter from the other cavemen. "Loser caveman" sighs

and shrinks back into his sad, little cave, watching them

from the shadows.

The rest of the cavemen look nervous.

The cavemen grunt in understanding.

The cavemen grunt amongst themselves. The toughest of the

bunch steps forward, pounds his chest and grunts.

The chief notices "loser caveman" watching from a distance.

All the cavemen turn and laugh at the "loser caveman".

All the cavemen laugh hysterically.

All the cavemen pick up rocks and begin throwing them at the

"loser caveman", who dives out of his cave and runs around

the camp, dodging their blows.

EXT. CAVEMAN VILLAGE - THE PALEOLITHIC ERA - NIGHT

Everyone in the village is asleep. Everyone, that is, but

"loser caveman" who sleeps uncomfortably in his tiny little

cave, tossing and turning, unable to get comfortable.

A stirring in the trees causes "loser caveman" to sit

upright. There's something outside of the village. Something

big.

Suddenly a GIANT TUSKED BOAR pushes through the trees and

stands, looking quite menacing, not ten yards from the

village fire.

"Loser caveman" is practically shaking with fear. The boar

makes eye-contact with "loser caveman" and charges directly

towards his tiny little cave.

The giant boar runs head first into the cave opening, but the

opening is too small for the beast to fit its head inside.

"Loser caveman" screams like a girl.

The boar backs up to strike again -- this one sure to be the

end of "loser caveman" -- when a large boulder, knocked loose

by the Boar's first hit, tumbles down and lands smack on the

Boar's head, killing it instantly.

The entire village runs out to see what has happened. The

"Loser caveman" stumbles out of the cave and dusts himself

off.

The chief steps forward.

Everyone laughs. The Chief looks towards Loser, standing

nervously near the corpse of the Giant Tusked Boar.

Everyone laughs hysterically. WE PAN over the many laughing

faces, pointing and hooting at loser caveman's cowardice. We

watch as the "loser caveman's" face turns bright red, the

veins in his neck pop out and his fists clench up tightly.

SUDDENLY WE FLY into the caveman's skull, traveling through

his cerebral cortex and towards the frontal lobe of his

small, homo erectus brain. Sparks are flying back and forth

across his brain as his synapses fire in rapid succession.

There is a SMALL EXPLOSION.

We fly back out of "loser caveman's" skull -- his face

contorted in rage.

He interrupts everyone's laughter.

Everyone stops laughing.

Loser caveman stands up straight and tall -- all of a sudden

the Bruce Willis of cavemen.

The entire village gasps.

The chief steps forward ominously, then proclaims:

Loser steps forward, grabs the prettiest of all cavewomen and

drags her towards his cave as the entire village erupts in

cheer.

FREEZE FRAME:

UNFREEZE:

The film rewinds about thirty seconds, to the point where the

chief asked what happened with "loser caveman" and the boar.

AGAIN WE FLY into the caveman's skull, traveling through his

homo erectus brain. Sparks are flying back and forth across

his brain as his synapses fire in rapid succession...

But this time there's no explosion.

We fly back out of "loser caveman's" skull -- his face

contorted in rage.

The rage slowly fades and Loser just stands there, everyone

in the camp waiting for him to say something.

Everyone falls onto the ground laughing hysterically.

Everyone in the camp joins in on another round of throwing

rocks at "loser caveman" as he runs around the camp,

terrified and miserable.

INSERT: "PRESENT DAY. LOS ANGELES, CA."

EXT. JENNIFER'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - NIGHT

A completely indistinguishable Los Angeles mid-rent apartment

complex.

MARK BELLISON pulls up in his early nineties Volvo, parks and

enters.

INT. JENNIFER'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - SAME

Mark (40's), average to semi-handsome, twists and turns

through stucco hallways. He knocks on apartment "9C".

JENNIFER MCDOOGLES opens, her face flushed. She's beautiful.

Mark enters.

ROLL CREDITS

Jennifer's apartment is new-adult, as if she just found out

she was an adult yet hasn't had the time or the money to

complete the transition.

Jennifer heads towards the bathroom. Mark stands alone in her

living room, looking around.

It's completely silent for a long beat. Mark looks around,

then sits on her couch.

More silence.

Jennifer enters the room and Mark stops talking.

Mark stands up. Jennifer picks up her purse and opens the

door.

END CREDITS

INT. MARK'S VOLVO - NIGHT

Mark and Jennifer drive in silence for a beat.

INT. LA BONISERA - NIGHT

The Volvo pulls up in front of the restaurant and the valet

parking guy opens Jennifer's door.

The valet parking guy hands Mark a ticket.

INT. LA BONISERA - NIGHT

They enter the quaint Mexican restaurant.

They approach the hostess.

The hostess seats them in the midst of the semi-crowded

restaurant.

A young, awkward waiter approaches.

The waiter leaves. Jennifer and Mark peruse their menus. A

woman screams out from a table on the other side of the room:

No one in the restaurant reacts.

Jennifer nods.

Jennifer smiles brightly.

The waiter returns with their drinks.

The waiter leaves. Jennifer's cell phone rings from inside

her purse.

She pulls out her cell phone and checks it.

Jennifer answers the phone. She talks openly and in plain

view of Mark.

Jennifer hangs up.

TIME CUT: LATER THAT NIGHT

Both of their plates are now empty. Three empty Margarita

glasses sit in front of Jennifer.

The waiter approaches with the bill and places it down in the

middle of the table.

EXT. JENNIFER'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - NIGHT

Mark walks Jennifer to the front door of her apartment

complex.

Mark leans in for a kiss. Jennifer kisses him on the cheek

and goes inside.

Jennifer waves and heads inside.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mark plops into bed in his boxers. His bedroom is bland,

uninspired and completely furnished by the cheapest stuff

found in an IKEA catalogue.

Mark flips on the TV and gets under the covers. A commercial

comes on TV.

INSERT: COMMERCIAL

A man in a suit stands next to a single can of coke resting

on a small table.

INSERT: Coke logo with tagline: "It's Coke. It's very

famous."

Mark falls asleep with the TV on.

THE NEXT MORNING

Mark's alarm clock blares. Groggily he rises and sighs

deeply. He has nothing to look forward to today. Or any day.

INT. ELEVATOR - MARK'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Mark stands in his building's elevator. The doors open and

FRANK, mid-forties and bald, enters.

The elevator doors open on the lobby. Mark nods at Frank.

INT. MARK'S CAR -- MORNING

As Mark drives to work we take in a bit of his world.

A homeless man stands on a street corner with a sign that

reads: "I don't understand why I'm homeless and all of you

are not."

A business man talking loudly into his cell phone pulls up

next to mark at a red light.

At another red light Mark eavesdrops on a couple having a

loud argument in front of a coffee shop.

A Bus passes in front of Mark's car.

ANGLE ON: The bus ad simply shows a can of Pepsi, and reads:

"Pepsi. When they don't have Coke."

A car honks behind Mark. The man leans out of his car and

yells at Mark.

Mark drives forward, waving to the man apologetically as the

man zooms past him.

EXT. LECTURE FILMS - CAR LOT - DAY

Mark parks his car and walks towards a large office building.

The sign on the building reads: "LECTURE FILMS MOTION PICTURE

STUDIOS -- We Film Someone Telling You About Things That

Happened."

In front of the building is a man in a suit standing on his

briefcase with his tie around his head, screaming.

Mark walks right by him. A woman in a business suit stops him

on his way through the front door.

Mark nods understandingly and enters the building.

INT. LECTURE FILMS - LOBBY - MORNING

As Mark walks through the lobby we get a brief glimpse of

some of the movie posters lining the wall: "The Holocaust",

"The Death of the Dinosaurs", "Napoleon", "The Civil War".

Each poster shows a different austere man sitting in a chair,

holding a script in his lap, with a title above his head. The

posters are extremely boring.

A tour guide leads a row of tourists through the lobby. As

Mark enters we overhear the tour guide's speech.

The whole tour "oohs". The tour guide walks over towards a

large flat-screen television embedded into the wall.

Everyone "oohs" again. Mark, curious as well, stops to watch

the trailer with the tour.

ANGLE ON: TV SCREEN. A black screen.

INTERCUT Mark scowling at this name.

The black fades to NATHAN GOLDFRAPPE, a middle-aged austere

man sitting before a fire in a velvet smoking jacket, holding

a script.

INTERCUT the tour, enraptured by this trailer. A few of the

tourists whisper to each other.

INTERCUT the trailer title slamming onto the screen:

The trailer ends and the tour applauds. The tour guide turns

to find Mark walking away.

The whole tour turns towards Mark. Mark turns around and

dejectedly waves.

The tour nods at Mark. Mark nods back.

INT. LECTURE FILMS - WRITER'S OFFICES - MORNING

Mark walks past cubicle after cubicle until he comes to his

office and SHELLEY, his attractive late-20's receptionist.

INT. LECTURE FILMS - MARK'S OFFICE - MORNING

Mark's office is completely boring and unremarkable, much

like his apartment.

There's a knock on his door.

ANTHONY enters, looking very much the boss in his expensive

suit, yet nervous and fearful as well.

Anthony sits down on the other side of Mark's desk and leans

forward.

Anthony pauses.

Anthony thinks for a moment, struggling to find the courage.

Anthony slinks out of the room. Mark looks down at his

computer to see he has an email in his inbox.

ANGLE ON: MARK'S COMPUTER -- The email reads: "I woke up this

morning, sober, and realized that, while I did enjoy your

company, based on your looks, your financial situation and

your position in life, I have no interest in you

romantically. I'm just too far out of your league. --

JENNIFER"

Mark sits back in his chair and sighs deeply.

INT. LECTURE FILMS - WRITER'S OFFICES - MORNING

With all of his meager belongings stuffed into a box, Mark

leaves his office, stopping in front of Shelley's desk.

Mark heads towards the elevator and is stopped by ROB

MARLOWE, a little weasel man with a hip haircut and expensive

clothes.

Rob storms off. Mark slinks into the elevator and hangs his

head in shame as the doors close.

EXT. ELDERLY HOME - DAY

ANGLE ON SIGN: "A SAD PLACE FOR HOPELESS OLD PEOPLE"

Mark enters the building.

INT. ELDERLY HOME - DAY

Mark walks up to the front desk to find a young receptionist.

Mark walks down the hall, passing different elderly people

who reach out to him.

Mark opens a door and enters.

INT. MARTHA SCHIFFMAN'S ROOM - DAY

An elderly woman in a light blue robe sits on the side of her

bed, with her back to Mark, staring at the wall only inches

from her face.

Mark takes his grandmother by the hand and steers her to the

other side of her bed.

Mark flicks on the TV with the remote. Static fills the

screen. He changes the channel and a picture comes into view.

I can't understand what it feels

like to be you so it just irritates

me and makes me think you're

stupid. But I also love you and

wish things were better for you.

I do too.

Grandma, I lost my job today. I'm

forty years old. I'm completely

alone and I've got absolutely no

prospects for anything.

I'm sorry, Mark. Things aren't any

better for me here. I can't afford

most of my medication, I'm very

alone and I forget more and more

every day.

I'm just so tired of life. Why does

life have to be so... what's the

word? Don't you sometimes wish you

could change things? Don't you

sometimes wish you weren't such a

loser?

I don't think I'm a loser.

Of course you're a loser, grandma.

Our family is made up of losers.

We're all poor, we're all average

looking, we're all only moderately

intelligent, we're all lonely and

unloved.

Well, we're poor because we weren't

born with money and it's very hard

to make enough money in a single

lifetime to move from one social

class to another. We're only

moderately intelligent because

there's been a lot of inbreeding in

our lineage. And we're only lonely

and unloved right now. Remember,

I've had two husbands I loved very

much in my lifetime.

Mark leaves. As he shuts the door from the hallway he hears

the channel change and turn back to static.

INT. BAR - AFTERNOON

Mark and his friend GREG (40'S), an even less attractive,

less interesting and less intelligent version of Mark, are

bellied up the bar with half empty beers in front of them.

A sad beat.

Mark downs his last shot.

Mark gets up and drunkenly stumbles out of the bar.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mark drunkenly lies in bed. He picks up the phone and dials.

Mark just breathes, too scared to say anything.

Mark hangs up quickly, embarrassed and ashamed. He sighs and

turns off the light.

THE NEXT MORNING

The alarm clock goes off.

Mark tosses the alarm clock across the room and goes back to

bed.

LATER.

A loud banging wakes Mark who groggily stumbles out of bed.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Mark opens the door to find his landlord, a middle aged, well-

groomed man.

A stunned Mark stands helpless as the Landlord pushes past

him, grabs a lamp from his living room and carries it out

into the hallway.

Mark sighs and follows the Landlord back into his apartment.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

With all of his belongings piled up in the hallway, a tired

and sweaty Mark stares defeatedly at his landlord.

Mark grits his teeth in rage.

INT. BANK - DAY

Mark steps up to the female teller at the bank. Mark is at

the lowest point in his entire life.

CLOSE ON MARK: This sinks in.

The bank teller smiles at Mark.

At the peak of his despair something suddenly comes over

Mark. His face turns a light shade of red as the wheels begin

to spin in his brain. He is fighting something within.

WE FLY into Mark's skull, traveling through his cerebral

cortex and towards the frontal lobe of his brain. Sparks are

flying back and forth across his brain as his synapses fire

in rapid succession.

There is a small explosion.

We fly back out of Mark's skull -- his eyes are locked on the

Bank Teller's like a deer in the headlights.

The teller locks eyes with Mark... then looks towards her

computer.

Mark breaks out in a cold sweat.

The bank teller types on her keyboard.

Mark doesn't know what to say. He tries to speak but nothing

comes out.

Mark gulps.

The teller walks away. Mark looks around nervously, awkwardly

smiling at the other tellers.

Moments later the Bank Teller returns and begins counting out

eight hundred dollars for Mark. Mark stares at the money with

wide eyes.

In shock, Mark shakes his head. The bank teller smiles big at

him.

Mark takes his money and hurriedly walks away.

EXT. STREET

Bursting out of the bank, Mark is a caveman who just invented

fire.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING -- UNIT 1A

Mark knocks on his LANDLORD'S door. A short, stodgy old man

opens the door.

Mark holds out a wad of money.

The landlord looks at the money and slowly reaches out to

take it.

Mark stops himself. Something else takes over within.

The Landlord and Mark both lock eyes for a tense beat.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - DAY

Mark jumps around his apartment, dancing and screaming. Mark

is a caveman who just invented sex.

EXT. BAR - DAY

Mark and Greg sit at the bar, Greg half listening as an

inspired Mark ends his monologue.

Greg perks up.

Mark is frustrated by his inability to explain.

JIM, mid-40's, short and stout, waddles over.

Mark, stands up, clears his throat, and holds his hands out

like "gimme some room".

There's a long pause as Mark summons his newfound talent:

Greg and Jim look at Mark confusedly.

Mark is flabbergasted.

Mark punches the bar in anger.

Greg nods. Mark sighs.

INSERT: "TWO HOURS LATER"

Mark sits at the bar looking completely bored.

Mark sighs, finishes his beer and gets up to leave.

Mark heads towards the door, dejected. He turns back.

Greg and Jim think this over long and hard.

Mark mulls this over.

Mark downs his beer and heads towards the exit.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Mark walks the street, a hunter looking for his prey.

Within seconds Mark spots a gorgeous blonde walking right

towards him. He stops in his track, quickly trying to decide

how best to proceed.

But as the blonde passes him he just stares at her like a

deer in the headlights.

The blonde walks away. Mark stands on the sidewalk staring

off into space, the wheels in his mind working overtime. Then

it hits him.

Immediately the blonde's eyes well up in tears. She is

terrified.

Mark is a caveman who just invented his penis.

EXT. A MOTEL -- DAY

The neon sign outside reads "A Cheap Motel for Intercourse

with a Near Stranger".

We slowly PUSH IN on the door of room 206. We hear noises

inside that at first sound like moaning, but as we get

closer... they sound more like crying.

INT. MOTEL - ROOM 206 - DAY

Bawling her eyes out and sitting on the bed doing her best to

get her shoes off, is the hot blonde.

Mark sits across from her, a look of guilt and revulsion on

his face. This is not what he expected.

Mark stands up. The blonde grabs him and pulls him towards

her. He pulls away.

The blonde screams and drops to her knees.

Mark looks down at this panicked, helpless girl and feels

really, really bad about himself.

Mark walks over to the phone and picks it up.

Mark hangs up the phone. The blonde is rocking back and forth

on the bed in a fetal position.

The blonde tackles him in a bear hug, sobbing and laughing.

The blonde falls onto the bed in exhaustion.

Mark stares at this helpless girl for a moment.

The blonde's face and mood do an instant 180.

The blonde chucks her shoes at Mark as he closes the door.

EXT. MOTEL -- DAY

Mark walks across the parking lot. A look of total shock on

his face.

INT. BAR - DUSK

Greg is in the exact same position Mark left him in, but he's

twice as drunk.

Mark plops down next to him, dazed and upset.

Greg nods off. Mark nudges him.

Greg passes out. Mark nods his head, takes the three full

shots sitting in front of Greg and does them all.

Greg immediately perks up.

INT. MARK'S CAR -- NIGHT

Greg is driving, Mark rides shotgun, both of them are

completely plastered.

WHOOP-WHOOP come the flashing lights of a cop car right

behind them. Greg begins to pull over.

Mark looks worried. The cop comes to Greg's window.

The cop pulls out a Breathalyzer and holds it up to Greg's

mouth.

Greg blows in the Breathalyzer.

Greg opens the door.

Greg stumbles and falls, passing out in the dirt. The cop

stares at Mark for a long beat while his brain wraps around

this.

The cop bangs his Breathalyzer against his leg.

In the background we can hear Greg vomiting profusely. The

cop picks up Greg and puts him back in the driver's seat.

Mark is basically passed out, vomit drooling down his chin.

He couldn't look more drunk. The cop and Mark stare at him

for a beat.

MOMENTS LATER

Driving away with Greg in the passenger seat, a giant smile

comes across Mark's face as he begins to laugh.

Greg vomits all over himself.

EXT. BELLAGIO - NIGHT

Mark pulls in front of the Bellagio hotel and casino. Both

Mark, and a very hungover looking Greg, pop out of the car.

Mark hands the keys to the valet and they both stumble

inside.

INT. BELLAGIO - NIGHT

It's the Bellagio. We've all been there.

Mark pulls out a small wad of money.

Mark and Greg step up to the chip counter. Mark slides his

small wad through the window.

The CHIP WOMAN looks at his money.

The woman slides him a short stack of chips. Greg frowns.

Mark and Greg walk towards the tables.

Mark and Greg look around. A cocktail waitress approaches.

Mark points to a table and walks away. The waitress nods.

They arrive at the roulette table.

Mark puts his chips down on seventeen black. The dealer

starts the wheel. The ball comes to a stop on twenty-seven

red.

In full view, Mark slides his chips over to twenty-seven red.

The dealer looks at this. His brain takes a moment to

respond.

The dealer stacks up Mark's new chips and pushes them over to

him.

Mark puts all of his chips on double zero. A bunch of other

people scatter their chips around the table as well.

The dealer spins the ball. It comes to a halt on nine black.

Mark takes ALL of the chips on the table, both his and

EVERYONE ELSE'S and slides them together into a giant pile

and sits them right on nine black.

The table cheers for Mark. Some people are a bit confused,

and a slight hubbub arises in the background: "I thought I

had chips on the table." "Yeah, me too." "We must be drunk."

"That guys is lucky!" Even the dealer looks a bit confused...

but gets over it quickly.

The roulette dealer slides about five grand in chips over to

Mark. Greg's jaw is on the floor.

Mark notices the confused people around him.

MOMENTS LATER

Mark is talking to a Pit Man right in front of a slot

machine.

The Pit Man whispers a few words into his lapel mic.

MOMENTS LATER

Mark and Greg, each carrying four giant buckets overflowing

with chips, waddle through the casino.

INT. BELLAGIO - PENTHOUSE SUITE - DAY

Mark and Greg lounge around the Bellagio penthouse suite,

piles of chips and cash lying around them. Greg is pacing

delightedly. Mark lies on the couch, unsatisfied.

Greg's eyes widen at the thought.

Greg thinks this over for a long beat.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - MORNING

Mark, exhausted from his long night, waits for the elevator

to arrive. The elevator doors open and Frank, the depressive

neighbor, steps out.

Frank stops and turns around, this is a different response.

Mark gets in the elevator, Frank walks away. A short beat.

Mark exits the elevator and yells after Frank.

Frank, halfway out the building, turns around.

Frank thinks this over.

Something changes in Frank. A slight smile comes over him.

Frank laughs.

Frank's smile fades a tiny bit.

Mark gets back in the elevator to the sound of Frank laughing

to himself as he exits the building. We hold on Mark for a

moment as he smiles and nods his head.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Mark sits at kitchen table, pen and paper in hand.

MONTAGE

Mark doing various good deeds throughout the day. V.O plays

throughout.

Marks walks up to the homeless man with the "I don't

understand why I'm homeless and you are all not" sign. He

says something to the homeless man, who quickly drops his

sign and follows Mark.

Mark and the homeless man are at the bank. Mark is talking to

the bank teller. The homeless man looks at Mark nervously.

The teller leaves and comes back with stacks and stacks of

cash.

Outside Lecture Films, Mark talks to the woman who was

adamant about not wanting to go to work. He whispers a few

words into her ear. She smiles, picks up her briefcase and

gladly walks into work.

Mark walks up to the arguing couple at the coffee shop, who

are now sitting at different tables, not even looking at each

other. He pulls up a chair next to each of them,

individually, and says a few words to them. Within moments,

the two of them are running into each other's arms and making

out passionately on the floor of the coffee shop.

Mark is at the elderly home, walking the halls and whispering

to his grandmother and each elderly person he passes, leaving

each one of them with a smile upon their faces, and some with

tears streaming down their cheeks.

Mark and Frank are watching TV in Mark's apartment. The two

of them are drinking beers and having a good time watching

television.

Mark signs his letter, seals it in an envelope, writes "MY

INVENTION" on the outside of it and sticks it in a drawer in

his kitchen.

END MONTAGE

INT. MARK'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mark lies in bed watching TV. He picks up the phone and

dials.

There is silence on the other end of the phone.

Mark hangs up happily.

PAN ON TV: The screen is all black.

The black fades to ANGELO BADSMITH, a middle-aged African

American man sitting before a fire in a green smoking jacket,

holding a script.

The screen reads: "The Industrial Revolution. Summer `07."

BACK ON MARK: His eyes are wide. The wheels in his head are

spinning again.

Suddenly Mark jumps and runs to his kitchen table. He grabs a

pen, pulls out a sheet of paper... and begins writing.

SERIES OF JUMP CUTS: Mark writing furiously throughout the

night, piling up page upon page. By the time the sun comes up

Mark is exhausted, with barely the energy to keep his head up

as he writes "the end" and places the final page on his large

stack of finished pages.

EXT. LECTURE FILMS - CAR LOT - MORNING

Mark hustles through the parking lot, manuscript in hand. He

reaches the door and then stops -- remembering something.

Mark runs to the curb and throws his manuscript onto the

dirty, filthy street. He gets down on his hands and knees and

rubs his manuscript into the grime, making sure to get every

page equally filthy.

Satisfied, he organizes the pages into a neat pile and enters

Lecture Films.

INT. LECTURE FILMS - WRITER'S OFFICES - DAY

Mark walks the aisles of Lecture Films. People stop to stare

at him. There is a whispered hubbub from the many cubicles

and offices.

Mark passes his old office, stopping to read the sign on the

door: "14TH CENTURY -- CLOSED."

Mark grimaces and keeps walking.

Mark turns his head to see Shelley, standing down the hall,

terrified, staring at Mark.

Mark ignores her and keeps walking. Leaning against his door

jamb, is Rob, smirking as Mark passes him.

Mark walks right up to the door that reads, "Head of

Development -- Anthony James."

Mark opens the door.

Anthony is on the phone, his back to Mark.

Anthony turns around to find Mark. His face becomes very,

very scared.

Anthony is relieved.

They both stare at each other for a long beat.

Mark pulls up a chair.

Mark places his muddy, dirty, manuscript down on Anthony's

desk. Anthony is scared to touch it.

The excitement drains from Anthony's face.

Anthony rolls his eyes.

Anthony's eyes widen.

Mark picks up the manuscript and opens the first page.

Anthony's mouth drops to the ground.

Mark smiles. Anthony picks up his phone and presses

"intercom".

Anthony hangs up.

The room is filled with people now, all of them hanging on

every word Mark reads from his manuscript. Even Rob and

Shelly lean against the back wall, their minds blown by the

story Mark is telling.

People around the room wipe tears from their eyes.

The entire room bursts into applause. Not just normal

applause, but massive, epic applause.

Everyone crowds around Mark, hugging him, touching him, blown

away by the magnanimity of the moment.

Mark thinks it over for a moment and looks right at Rob.

Rob sneers. Everyone "aahs" and claps again.

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Mark and Jennifer sit at a candlelit table in the corner of a

hip and fancy restaurant. Jennifer looks beautiful. Mark is

on cloud nine.

Mark smiles. They both sip their drinks and look at their

menus. The waiter comes up.

The waiter leaves. Mark and Jennifer stare at each other for

a short beat. Something has changed between them and they can

both feel it.

Jennifer is touched...but she doesn't reciprocate Mark's

feelings. Jennifer moves on.

INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY

Nice, mid-to-upper class home. Lots of white wood. The house

is very quiet, until... the phone rings and the answer

machine picks up.

The message ends. PAN OVER to a SOCCER MOM standing in the

doorway. She drops her coffee and screams.

INT. FANCY RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The waiter arrives with their food.

He places them down.

Mark and Jennifer begin eating. Mark wants to say something

and takes a moment to summon the courage.

Mark didn't expect this answer.

Jennifer thinks this over.

Mark smiles. This is going well...

And that's the end of that. Mark nods.

Mark takes a bite of his food. Jennifer smiles and does the

same, oblivious to Mark's pain.

Mark's cell phone rings.

Mark's face melts in terror.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Mark bursts into the hospital room to find his grandmother,

MARTHA looking tired and scared, hooked up to dozens of

machines, the heart monitor beeping ominously.

There's a knock on the door. The doctor enters.

The doctor checks Martha's chart.

Mark sits down next to Martha, in total shock.

The doctor leaves. Mark holds his grandmother's hand, her

hand is shaking.

The wheels in Mark's head are spinning again. Suddenly the

heart monitor starts beating rapidly and Martha lurches in

pain.

Mark immediately slams on the big red "call nurse" button,

holding his grandmother down as she lurches in pain.

Seconds later three nurses burst into the room.

Nurse #2 begins filling a syringe. Mark sits by his

grandmother's head, they're both looking right at each other.

We focus on Mark and his grandmother, inches from one another

as the paramedics busy themselves around Martha's dying body.

Martha is hanging on to every word Mark is saying.

Tears are rolling down Martha's face as a glimmering smile

overtakes her face.

Mark looks up to see the nurses, paramedics and doctors all

staring at Mark in total shock.

The cardiogram flat lines.

Everyone distractedly goes back to helping the grandmother.

Again, everyone has stopped helping Martha, they're all

listening intently. Some of them are crying.

Martha stops breathing. The machine flatlines. And with that

Martha is gone.

Mark turns away from his grandmother. Standing outside in the

hallway is Jennifer, watching Mark with true empathy in her

eyes.

INT. MARK'S CAR -- MORNING

Mark and Jennifer pull up in front of Jennifer's apartment.

There is a long beat of silence.

Mark nods his head.

INT. JENNIFER'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mark and Jennifer sit side-by-side on her couch. Mark holds a

can of beer in his hand, gently turning it around in his

palm, staring down at it vacantly.

Jennifer sadly watches Mark.

Slowly and almost absentmindedly, Jennifer's hand moves over

and rests gently upon Mark's wrist, settling there.

We hold on them for a long beat.

THE NEXT MORNING

Mark and Jennifer have fallen asleep in the exact same

position, both of them sitting side-by-side no the couch, her

hand still on his wrist.

Mark opens his eyes and looks down at her hand, then up at

Jennifer who slowly opens her eyes and smiles at him.

They share a moment.

INT. MARK'S CAR - MORNING

A bleary eyed Mark drives home from Jennifer's. As he turns

onto his street he finds hundreds of cars blocking the way. A

massive crowd of people are leaving their cars and walking.

Mark gets out of his car to find a wild scene: hundreds of

people camped out on the lawn of his apartment building.

Standing by his door is the NURSE from the hospital. She

immediately points at Mark and screams.

Mark is bum-rushed by a question-asking throng. All of them

are pelting Mark with questions, all of them confused and

hopeful and desperately looking for answers.

Mark pushes through the crowd, overwhelmed by it all. He gets

to his door and opens it, only to have the Nurse step in his

path and block the door.

Mark pushes past her and into his building, closing the door

behind him.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - DAY

Mark goes to his fridge and pulls out a beer. His mind is

reeling. As he opens a drawer to get a bottle opener he sees

the letter: "MY INVENTION". Mark eyes it ominously.

The phone rings. Mark screens the call.

Mark picks up the phone.

Mark walks into his bedroom and turns on the TV. Sure enough

there's a newscaster on his lawn, giving a report, with a

banner on the screen that reads, "New Death Discoveries".

Mark puts down the phone and listens to the T.V.

Mark puts the phone to his ear again.

EXT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - AFTERNOON

Jennifer pushes through the throng of people, which is now

even larger than before. As she reaches the door Mark opens

it for her and slides her through.

Mark hurries Jennifer into the elevator.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Jennifer sits on the couch while Mark, agitated beyond

recognition, paces the room.

Jennifer's heart skips a beat.

Mark sighs and looks out the window. The crowd extends down

the block, all of them sitting calmly on his lawn, talking

quietly to each other, trying to make sense of it all.

Jennifer gets up and stands beside Mark.

Mark thinks this over.

Jennifer leaves the room. Mark, alone with his thoughts, sits

down at his kitchen table, pulls out a few sheets of paper,

grabs a pen and starts writing.

EXT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Mark's neighborhood is a sea of candles. The crowd has grown

beyond measure. A massive sea of people, all holding candles,

all waiting quietly like serene cows for Mark to come down

and make his announcement.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Mark is hunched over his table writing. There's a knock at

the front door. Greg walks in with a large pizza and beer.

Jennifer comes out of the bedroom and quickly "shhh's" Greg.

Jennifer pulls Greg away from Mark. Mark goes back to work.

TIME CUT: LATER

Mark puts down his pencil and places both written sheets next

to each other. He has finished.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Mark opens the door. Jennifer and Greg are on his bed

watching T.V. The same newscaster stands outside the

building.

Mark waves his manuscript in the air.

Jennifer and Greg jumps off the bed.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

They head towards the door.

Greg grabs an empty pizza box off of the counter, rips it

into two pieces and tapes his two pages onto them.

Mark holds the two halves of the pizza boxes awkwardly and

nods his head.

Mark looks at Jennifer and Greg with fear in his eyes.

EXT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

OTS of Newscaster cameraman. The newscaster is interviewing a

young man, with Mark's apartment building in the background.

Mark cracks open the front door and steps out onto his front

steps, with Jennifer right behind him. The newscaster and

cameraman run to get into position.

Mark looks out at the sea of people staring silently at him,

waiting for answers.

A man runs up and hands Mark a microphone.

His voice echoes through the neighborhood.

You could hear a pin drop. No one is even breathing.

Intercut throughout: different video feeds, people listening

to radios, standing in the cold watching TV's through store

windows -- all around the world.

Mark takes a deep breath and holds up his "pizza box

commandments".

Mark looks out at the crowd, all of them so hopeful, so

needy. Mark looks back at Jennifer and Greg who give him a

proud nod.

Mark wasn't prepared for questions.

Everyone nods.

A lot of people echo this sentiment.

Where are they?

Okay, they're probably there, but

you'll never see them. They're far

off, too far for you to get there.

But what if they try to find me?

They won't. They hate you too.

But what if they don't? What if

they love me but I hate them?

Well then you're just... you'll

both be fine with it. There's only

love there, okay?

Number five: When you die there

will be free ice cream. All day.

All night. Whatever flavor you can

think of.

What, even bad flavors?

But why would you eat bad flavors?

Well, you just said every flavor I

can think of.

Oh no, I just thought about vanilla

and skunks!

Well don't eat it then!

I've just thought the chocolate

sauce is diarrhea!

Well don't put it on then! What's

wrong with you people? I mean...

A rumble of terror moves through the crowd.

The whole crowd echoes this sentiment.

There's a hubbub throughout the crowd: "It's like baseball",

"I love baseball" "I'm scared of the bad place".

About fifty people stand up and ask their questions at the

same time.

Mark sighs.

INSERT: "SIX HOURS LATER"

The crowd nods apprehensively. Many of the people in the

crowd are crying.

One of the crying men, shaking like a leaf, stands up, with

terror in his eyes.

Tons of people shout similar sentiments.

The crowd erupts in a massive cheer. People hug each other

passionately, wiping tears from their eyes.

The crowd is quiet for a long beat....they're mulling this

over. The first man to speak is a blue collar guy with a

thick Brooklyn accent.

The whole crowd erupts in agreement. People stand up

shouting, flicking off the sky.

Mark looks worried. He didn't anticipate this. Suddenly a

thought occurs to him.

Everyone quiets down.

The whole crowd "aaaahhs".

The crowd thinks this over.

The crowd "aaahhs" again.

Mark looks out at the crowd, they're all exhausted, their

minds completely blown. The Nurse who started this all steps

forward.

Mark takes Jennifer by the hand and pulls her back inside his

building.

INT. MARK'S APARTMENT BUILDING - LOBBY - NIGHT

Mark, Jennifer and Greg wait for the elevator, all of them

exhausted.

The doors open and they get inside. All three of them stare

ahead, Mark looking exhausted, Jennifer and Greg with their

minds completely blown... as the doors close and we

MONTAGE

Spinning magazines and newspaper headlines proclaim "Mansion

for Everyone (almost)", "NASA searching for Man in the Sky",

"Finally -- A Reason to Do Good", "Time: Man of the Year:

Mark Bellison", "Mansion Prices Plummet Worldwide", "Cult of

Bellison Await Further Answers", "Man in Sky Murders forty-

two in Earthquake", "Man in Sky Continues to Give AIDS to

Babies", "Workplace Productivity down Fourteen Percent --

Everyone Daydreaming About Mansions".

Mark is at Lecture Films turning in the script for "The Black

Plague" to Anthony. Rob gives Mark a dirty look as he passes

him in the hall.

Mark, smiling proudly, stands behind the camera while Nathan

Goldfrappe reads his script. In the background are Jennifer

and Greg, hanging out on set. Jennifer can be seen chatting

with Rob by craft services.

Mark removes the "For Sale" sign from the front yard of a

brand new, beautiful home. Jennifer and Greg congratulate

Mark enthusiastically.

Mark and Jennifer are walking down the street together when

Mark stops to point out a new building with a sign that

reads, "A Quiet Place To Think About the Man in the Sky". The

building boasts a large stained glass window portraying Mark

holding the two halves of the pizza box.

Mark, Jennifer and Greg laugh it up in a stretch limousine as

it pulls up to the movie premier of "The Black Plague".

Mark, Jennifer and Greg walk the red carpet at the premier of

"The Black Plague". Mark is the center of attention. Rob

stops by on the red carpet to say hello to Jennifer and

whisper something into her ear. Jennifer laughs.

Mark and Jennifer have dinner together, the best of friends,

but as they cheers their champagne glasses there is a tinge

of sadness in Mark's eyes.

END MONTAGE

SCREEN READS: "TWO MONTHS LATER"

INT. MARK'S MANSION - DEN - EVENING

A disheveled Mark, unshaven and sloppy looking, sits in a

reclining chair, wearing boxers and a bathrobe, drinking a

beer. Beer cans are littered everywhere.

A young gay man in a suit stands before him with a pad and a

pen writing down everything Mark says.

Jennifer enters the room, upset.

Jennifer grabs the beer out of Mark's hand.

The assistant walks away.

Jennifer glares at Mark, disappointed.

Jennifer sits down next to him.

Mark shrugs.

Jennifer waves towards a shelf full of Oscars and various

other awards.

Mark sits up in his chair and looks right at Jennifer.

Jennifer sighs and sits down beside him.

Suddenly Mark has an idea. He looks right at Jennifer.

Jennifer lights up.

Mark stares at her for a short beat. He can't go through with

it.

Mark stands up.

Mark sits down.

There's a knock at the front door.

Mark stands up, in shock and follows Jennifer to the front

door. She opens the door to find Rob looking handsome and

arrogant.

Rob notices Mark in his boxers and a bathrobe.

Jennifer turns back to Mark, sad that he's upset.

The door closes and Mark is left standing there alone.

Greg, dressed in a bathrobe and looking even more slovenly

than Mark, waddles up behind him.

EXT. MARK'S MANSION - POOLSIDE - NIGHT

Mark and Greg are shit-faced, sitting around Mark's giant

swimming pool.

About forty voices shout back: "He's talking to us!" "Maybe

he has more answers!" "Finally!"

Mark snickers to himself. Greg, drunk and stupid, can't help

but snicker too.

Mark and Greg explode laughing. From the other side of the

fence we can hear people mumbling shock. "I am gay." "I

always knew it." "This is going to be awkward for my

husband."

Mark and Greg almost roll into the pool they're laughing so

hard. The people on the other side of the fence aren't

laughing: "Who's my real mother?", "This explains so much",

"Dad, why didn't you tell me?"

Mark hobbles up and walks into the house. Moments later he

emerges with two cokes.

Mark tosses Greg a Coke and sits down on his chaise lounge,

cracking open his Coke and taking a sip.

Mark looks down at his can of Coke.

CLOSE ON COKE CAN: The warning label is extremely long and

written in very small type. It starts with, "COKE IS VERY BAD

FOR YOU. The following are diseases, physical ailments and

general health issues that coke might cause:"

The label then goes on to list dozens of ailments. Mark's

eyes scan down to the very bottom of the label where it says

simply, "If you still want to drink Coke, do so at your own

risk."

Mark looks over to find Greg staring at the depressing label

as well.

Mark stares at this label for a moment, thinking. With his

hand he covers everything on the label except for "Please

Enjoy Coke."

He smiles widely.

Greg turns to him, his face full of hope.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

A dozen high powered executives from all over the globe sit

around a massive board room table. The head seat at the table

is unoccupied.

They mumble back and forth to each other, unsure why they're

there.

Mark bursts into the room in a suit, looking very manicured.

Mark hits a button and a projection screen comes down on the

far wall. Mark starts a slide show.

SERIES OF SLIDES: We see the same warning we just saw on the

Coke can, a commercial jet with "This Plane Might Crash --

Four Of Our Other Ones Did" printed on its side, a car

dashboard light reading "This Car will Ignite Upon Impact -

Always", and a sticker on a grocery store package of ground

meat that reads "Injected with hormones that make it taste

better -- but will eventually give you cancer".

Everyone in the room shudders.

Mark changes the slide to a can of coke that simple reads,

"Coke -- Tastes Great! And It's Good For You!"

Everyone in the room "ahhhs".

The executives all squint their eyes.

Everyone "aaahs" in understanding. Mark sighs and changes the

slide to that of a commercial airliner with the words

"Completely Safe" writing on the outside.

Nobody in the room gets it.

Mark changes the slide again: The car dashboard light now

reads, "This Car Prevents Crashes", and another slide that

shows a package of meat with a sticker reading, "This Meat

Actually Cures Cancer".

The executives all nod their heads in agreement and rise to

shake Mark's hand.

Mark exits.

INT. SUPER MARKET - DAY

We follow a suburban housewife as she pushes her shopping

cart through the aisles of a bright and shiny super market.

She picks up a six pack of Coke and notices the label: "New

Coke -- It Tastes Great! And it's Good For You!"

The housewife smiles widely and enthusiastically tosses it in

her cart.

SERIES OF CUTS: The housewife grabbing different products,

marveling at the new, improved features: "Cures Sadness!",

"Tastes Better than Real Chicken!", "This Candy is All Your

Body Needs To Survive!"

With a full cart the housewife wheels it to the checkout

counter to find swarms of people already there, all of their

carts bursting to the brim with new, exciting products.

Everyone looks excited and happy.

INT. BAR - MORNING

Back at his old stomping ground, Mark sits at the bar by

himself drinking coffee and watching the TV.

Greg sits next to him, with two boxes of cookies and a liter

of coke in front of him.

Different newspapers are spread out on the bar, all of them

with similar headlines, "World Rocked By New Healthy

Products", "People Everywhere Line up for Guilt-Free Treats",

"YOU CAN EAT CAKE -- ALL THE TIME!".

ANGLE ON TV: A FAT MAN is being interviewed in front of a

super market, he holds a bag full of junk food in front of

him.

The man takes a bite of a Twinkie and wavers a bit like he's

going to pass out.

The man steadies himself.

The man smiles, but he's obviously not feeling well.

BACK ON MARK

He's watching the TV with a bit of worry on his face. He

turns to Greg who is eating a stack of cookies and washing it

down by gulping from a liter of coke.

Greg shoves three more cookies into his mouth.

Greg holds up the package of cookies and points to the

disclaimer which reads, "These cookies make you smarter".

Mark sighs.

Greg hands Mark a brownie that, sure enough, says "They'll

cheer you up!" right on the package.

Mark gets up and leaves.

INT. MARK'S CAR -- DAY

Mark drives while we take in a bit of his world, highlighting

the various changes he's wrought.

A homeless man stands on the street corner with a sign that

now reads, "Screw it. I'll be in my mansion soon." He has a

big smile on his face.

The same business man pulls up beside Mark's car, this time

eating a giant donut and talking loudly into his cell phone.

At a red light Mark eavesdrops on the same arguing couple.

A bus passes in front of Mark's car. The ad now reads,

"Pepsi. Just As Good as Coke."

A car honks behind Mark. The man leans out of his car and

yells at Mark.

As the man passes him, he looks at Mark and pulls up beside

him.

The honking man speeds away.

INT. GRAVEYARD - AFTERNOON

Mark sits in front of the gravesite of his grandmother.

ANGLE ON: Her tombstone which reads, "Martha Bellison 1918-

2007. Lived an average life for a woman in her time."

INT. MARK'S MANSION - KITCHEN - NIGHT

With a beer bottle in his hand Mark searches through his

kitchen drawers for a bottle opener. He opens a drawer and

something catches his eye.

ANGLE ON: The envelope which reads, "MY INVENTION".

Slowly Mark pulls it out of the drawer and stares at it.

The sound of his front door opening startles him and Mark

shoves the envelope into his back pocket.

Jennifer enters the kitchen.

Mark nods.

Jennifer pulls out an invitation, Mark waves it away.

Mark shrugs and Jennifer puts the invitation back in her

purse.

Mark turns towards her.

Jennifer and Mark stare at each other for a long beat.

Jennifer nods. Mark leads her into the living room and they

sit down far apart from each other on the couch. Mark turns

the TV on and they both sit in silence.

LATER.

Mark has fallen asleep on the couch. Jennifer checks her

watch and stands up. She takes out her wedding invitation and

lays it on the coffee table by Mark.

She unfolds a blanket and is about to place it on him when

she notices an envelope sticking out of his back pocket. She

pulls it out and looks at it.

She opens the letter and begins to read. Once finished, she

folds up the letter and hurriedly leaves, scared and

confused.

THE NEXT MORNING

Mark wakes up and sees Jennifer's wedding invitation on the

coffee table. He sighs.

INT. MARK'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Mark stands before the mirror, dressed in a suit, putting on

a tie.

Greg pokes his head into the room, dressed in a suit as well.

EXT. "CHURCH" - DAY

The sign outside reads, "A QUITE PLACE TO THINK ABOUT THE MAN

IN THE SKY".

They enter the building.

INT. "CHURCH" - DAY

A small stage sits before a large stained glass window

portraying Mark holding the two halves of the pizza box.

Rob stands at the altar.

Mark and Greg take their seats amidst a crowd of people

sitting quietly in their chairs.

INT. "CHURCH" - BRIDAL ROOM - DAY

Jennifer sits in a small room in a beautiful white dress,

looking as beautiful as any woman has ever looked. She stares

absentmindedly out the window.

There's a knock at the door. JENNIFER'S MOTHER pokes her head

in.

Jennifer doesn't answer. We PUSH IN on Jennifer to see she's

clutching Mark's letter in her hand.

INT. "CHURCH" - DAY

"Here's comes the Bride" plays over an organ and Jennifer

walks down the aisle towards a smiling Rob.

Mark watches her in awe, stunned by her beauty. Rob notices

Mark staring at Jennifer and mouths "loser" at him.

Jennifer reaches the altar and stands across from Rob. The

WEDDING OVERSEER, an elderly man in a suit, stands between

them holding a few sheets of paper in his hand.

Both Rob and Jennifer nod at each other.

Jennifer doesn't respond.

There's a slight hubbub in the room. Mark perks up.

CLOSE ON Jennifer's eyes. Indeed, they are brown.

Rob looks again. Mark stirs in his seat, amazed by what he's

hearing.

PUSH IN on Jennifer. It works. Her mind is reeling.

Jennifer is confused. Her mind is fighting it, but she

doesn't know what exactly she's fighting. Finally...

There is a sigh of relief from the room. Mark shakes his head

in sadness.

Mark bolts up in his chair.

The whole room gasps.

Mark thinks this over for a beat.

Awkwardly Mark makes his way to the aisle and leaves the

room. The room is thick with tension.

EXT. "CHURCH" - DAY

Mark loosens his tie as he walks out of the building and

towards the street.

In the background we can see the "church" door open.

Mark turns, confused and tired.

Jennifer runs to him. She stands before him, they both stare

at each other.

Jennifer pulls out Mark's letter and shows it to him.

There is a long moment of silence. Jennifer moves closer to

Mark and looks directly into his eyes.

The biggest smile we've ever seen comes across Mark's face.

Just   like she did the night on her couch, Jennifer reaches

over   and puts her hand on Mark's wrist. They both stare at

each   other for a long beat, holding hands, love beaming from

both   of them.

The world is changing before their eyes.

Greg sticks his head out of the church door.

Jennifer smiles at Mark.

Mark smiles back.

WE RISE UP as Mark and Jennifer walk hand in hand towards the

church -- and an unknowable future.

