OPENING CREDITS

INT. LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

We hear the rhythm of funky seventies SOUL MUSIC.

Then SHE steps into FRAME.

She is JACKIE BROWN, a stewardess dressed in her CABO AIR

uniform. (A little shuttle airline that flies from Los

Angeles to Cabo San Lucas. Approximate flight time: forty

five minutes)

Jackie stands still as a people-mover slowly inches her

through the airport. The CREDITS APEAR and DISAPPEAR in

front of her.

Jackie Brown is a very attractive black woman in her mid

forties, though she looks like she's in her mid-thirties.

The people-mover reaches the end of the line, she steps

off.

She breezes through Customs and we follow her with a

STEDICAM as she strides through the airport... She gets

to her gate disappears inside the plane for a moment

comes back out sans flight bag picks up the microphone.

With a smile on her face, she collects passengers'

boarding passes as they board the plane.

TITLE CARD

"ORDELL ROBBIE"

EXT. FIRING RANGE - DAY

VIDEO

A chorus line of six beautiful bikini-clad women, all

holding different automatic weapons, BLASTING away.

The cheap VIDEO TITLES to:

"CHICKS WHO LOVE GUNS"

Play over this image.

One bikini beauty is singled out. She's a gorgeous

brunette named SIDNEY. Sidney stands facing camera

holding a TEC-9 and describing it.

SIDNEY'S STATISTICS: Age, height, measurements, date of

birth, appear at the bottom left-hand corner. As Sidney

continues her sales pitch/demonstration, a BLACK MAN'S

VOICE begins talking over the video.

After a CLOSEUP of the TEC-9, Sidney FIRES the weapon.

INT. MELANIE'S BEAHC APARTMENT - NIGHT

The Black Voice belong to forty-five-year old ORDELL

ROBBIE.

Ordell wears clothes nice and likes wearing nice clothes.

Stylish, athletic wear (Reebok), heavy, black leather

jackets (Hugo Boss), warm-colored berets and baseball

caps to cover his balding head are Ordell's "look." At

this moment Ordell's wearing an open silk shirt.

Ordell narrates the video playing on the big-screen V.

(the most expensive thing in the apartment). He holds a

cocktail in one hand (screwdriver, his drink of choice)

and the remote control in the other, pacing the floor in

his I-can-talk-anybody-into-anything voice.

LOUIS GARA, who looks like he does his shopping at the

Salvation Army (dressed in a Hawaiian shirt and

dungarees), sits on the sofa staring blankly at the

video, drinking Jack Daniels on ice. Louis, white, also

in his mid forties, has lived over half of his life in

penal institutions. The experience has affected both his

body language and his thought process.

While acutely aware of the rhythm of life inside a

correction facility, in the real world his timing is

thrown. It's like a song he doesn't know the lyrics to

but attempt to sing anyway.

The third person watching the video is the person who

lives in this apartment, MELANIE RALSTON. Melanie, thirty-

three, is a tanned, blonde, California beach bunny. Like

the kind you se in the old Crown International movies

from the seventies like "Pom Pom Girls" "Malibu Beach"

and "Beach Girls," except Melanie is older than any of

those girls ever are. She's dressed in her Melanie-

uniform of stringy Levis cutoffs and a stringy bra top.

So far Melanie has been able to make a living out of

lying in the sun, always finding a generous, wealthy man

more than willing to pay her rent and pick up her tabs.

In her prime (twenty two) it was Japanese industrialists,

film production guys, and Middle Eastern businessmen who

kept Melanie. And it was places like the Bahamas,

Acapulco, and the Virgin Islands where they kept her.

But now, at thirty three, she lives in an apartment in

Hermosa Beach, California that Ordell pays for an drops

in and out of. She's curled up in a reclining chair,

smoking weed from a pipe, reading Movieline Magazine and

paying no attention to the video.

Ordell hits the fast-forward on his remote control.

Sidney is rushed off the screen and replace by CINDY, a

pretty, blonde bodybuilder clad in a red, white and blue

bikini, holding a Styer Aug.

Ordell punches up the volume.

Cindy BLASTS the Styer Aug, loud.

Ordell imitates the sound of the weapon.

Melanie puts down the magazine, takes his cocktail glass

from him and moves to the kitchen.

Melanie comes back, hands Ordell his screwdriver, then

sits where she was.

Ordell sits down on the couch. Melanie's reading

"Movieline Inside" magazine.

GLORIA, a tall, Amazonian, bikini-clad, black woman faces

camera and describes the AK-47.

The phone rings.

Ordell just stares at her.

Louis keeps staring at he screen.

Melanie gets up, goes over to the counter that separates

the living room from the kitchen, picks up the phone,

says:

Puts the phone down and says;

Before Ordell knows it, Melanie is back in the reclining

chair, reclining back all the way.

Ordell, pissed, looks at her a moment before taking the

phone.

Louis sits on he couch, drinking his Jack Daniels,

watching the video.

Melanie lies back on the reclining chair, takes a hit off

her pipe, then says in a 'holding in smoke' voice;

Holding up her pipe.

Louis takes a hit off the pipe.

Louis takes a drink of whiskey.

Louis nods his head in agreement.

Ordell hangs up the phone.

Ordell comes back, sitting down on the other side of

Louis.

The phone rings again.

Ordell looks at Melanie.

Melanie looks at Ordell.

They have a bit of a staring contest before she gets up

and gets the phone.

Melanie sits back down in he chair.

KITCHEN

Ordell, drink in hand, picks up the receiver.

He listens to Beaumont on the other line - it's obvious

Beaumont's starting to freak out. Ordell changes his

tone.

Ordell hangs up the phone.

EXT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

The store front window of Cherry Bail Bonds in Inglewood,

California. The name of the business is spelled out on

the window, which also includes a drawing of a fat red

cherry.

Ordell's BLACK MERCEDES CONVERTIBLE pulls up.

Ordell in the driver's seat. Louis in shotgun position.

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

Inside Cherry Bail Bonds, looking out through the picture

window. We can read the name on the glass backwards.

Ordell and Louis appears in the window and enter the

building. Ordell carries a L.A. Lakers athletic bag.

An unidentified MALE VOICE, obviously on the telephone,

can be heard.

Ordell goes toward the voice and tells Louis to "hang

back."

The voice belong to MAX CHERRY, bail bondsman. Max, a

regular-Joe-type white guy in his fifties, sits behind

his desk talking on the phone. His eyes raise as he sees

Ordell approach him.

Ordell motion to the chair in front of Max's desk. Max

motions for Ordell to take a seat.

Ordell lights up a cigarette. (Viceroy).

He notices a picture on the wall of Max with his arm

around a big, powerfully built black man. They're both

grinning.

Louis pours himself some coffee from a coffeemaker into a

small, white styrofoam cup. He picks up a jar of powdered

non-dairy creamer that's so dry he has to break off a

rock. Louis adds the rock of coffeemate to his beverage.

He hangs up the phone.

Ordell sits in front of the desk, smiling at him and

smoking.

Max looks at him for a moment.

Ordell picks up the coffee cup, which still has a little

bit of coffee in it, and flicks his ash.

Max throws a look past Ordell to Louis.

From across the room, Louis nods his head in Max's

direction.

Max looks at him a moment, then back to Ordell.

Max looks at him a moment and says;

Max looks at Ordell, getting his drift, then says;

Ordell picks up his Lakers bag and puts it in the empty

chair next to him.

Louis just stands, feeling uncomfortable, in the other

room drinking coffee.

Max taking papers out of the drawer...

... picking up the pen...

Max looks at Ordell, but doesn't ask him the obvious

question.

Max picks up the phone.

Max on hold, looks at Ordell.

Ordell smiles.

Louis enters the area, standing over Ordell.

Ordell pulls out a heavy-duty keychain with a shitload of

keys on it.

Ordell finds it. While he goes through the keys, Vicki

comes back on the line.

Max speaks with her as he fills out his papers.

Louis nods and goes out.

EXT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

Louis walks out of the office. He goes up to Ordell's

black Mercedes. He points the little black box at it. The

car goes BLEEP.

He gingerly approaches it, opens the door and climbs

inside.

INT. MAX CHERRY'S OFFICE - DAY

Max hangs up the phone.

Ordell hands him the Lakers bag. Max takes the money out

putting it on the desk.

Max begins counting it.

Max pulls the forms from his desk, and lays them in front

of Ordell. Max goes back to counting the money. Ordell

reads the first agreement then says;

A BLACK FINGER

Pressing a BLACK BUTTON next to the name, "BEAUMONT

LIVINGSTON".

INT. BEAUMONT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

BEAUMONT LIVINGSTON, wearing no shirt, sweatpants, and

smoking a fatty answers the intercom, which buzzes

loudly. We can hear JAY LENO interviewing a CELEBRITY on

TV OFFSCREEN.

EXT. BEAUMONT'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Ordell stands outside the security gate of Beaumont's

Hollywood apartment.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - Ordell's lips talking into the intercom

speaker.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - Beaumont's finger pressing the entry

button.

EXTREME CLOSEUP - The doorknob on the security gate,

BUZZING. Ordell's hand comes into frame twisting it open.

Beaumont opens his apartment door, fatty between his

fingers. He sees Ordell approach.

Ordell greets him, arms spread out in hug mode, with a

big smile across his face.

Ordell and Beaumont embrace.

Laughing his hustler's laugh and bumping Beaumont's fist

hard.

Beaumont laughs.

Beaumont takes a hit off the fatty and nods his head.

Beaumont gesture inside his apartment.

This has the desired effect.

WITH ORDELL WAITING OUTSIDE THE DOOR

Beaumont comes out of the apartment, sporting Nikes and a

Queen Latifah t-shirt. He locks his front door and walks

with Ordell to his car. They talk the whole way. We

STEDICAM in front of them the whole way.

TRUNK

The trunk of a car is opened.

Ordell bends down into the trunk and pulls out a pump

action shotgun. Beaumont obviously doesn't want any part

of any Ordell game that requires a pump action shotgun as

a playing piece.

Beaumont starts to speak -

Beaumont smiles. So does Ordell.

Beaumont and Ordell laugh together... the Beaumont says;

TRUNK

Beaumont in the trunk, holding the shotgun. The trunk lid

is SLAMMED closed.

EXT. / INT. OLDSMOBILE - NIGHT

Ordell walks around the car, climbs into the plush

interior of the Olds and turns on the engine. It comes to

life with a SOFT RUMBLE. He puts a tape in the player

inside the dash.

The tape is labeled "ORDELL'S JAMS."

Cool, old-school R&B fills the cab.

Ordell cruises, moving his head to the rhythm and

mouthing the words.

He drives for awhile, just groovin' on the music...

... then stops.

Ordell switches the engine and the music off. The cab

goes black.

He leans over the passenger seat, opening the glovebox. A

tiny light turns on when the glovebox is opened. It's the

only light in the cab. Ordell leaves it on.

In silence he takes one glove out and puts it on his

right hand. Then with his gloved hand, reaches in the

glovebox and pulls out a five-shot .38 snubby. He closes

the glovebox.

The cab goes black.

EXT. OLDSMOBILE - NIGHT

The Olds is parked out in the middle of some urban

nowhere.

Ordell gets out, sticks the snubby in his pants, and

walks to the back of the Olds. He sticks his key in the

trunk and says;

The trunk opens. Beaumont is hunched on his side with the

shotgun.

Beaumont doesn't say anything.

Ordell takes the snubby out of his pants.

Beaumont quick-racks the pump shotgun, pulls the trigger,

and hears the click you hear from an empty weapon. He

racks it again, CLICK then BAM. Beaumont is shot hard in

the chest. He goes back into he trunk.

Ordell puts one more shot in his head, BAM, tosses the

weapon on top of the dead body and closes the trunk.

Ordell's Beaumont problem is solved. He climbs back into

the cab, turns on the engine. We hear the old-school R&B

song come back on, but VERY LOW.

Ordell drives the Olds away.

INT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Louis sits on a bed in a flophouse motel room, flipping

from one channel to another with a remote control,

drinking cocktails from a can.

The phone rings. He answers it.

INT. OLDSMOBILE (PARKED) - NIGHT

Ordell is sitting parked in the comfy-cozy cab of the

Olds, listening to soul music with his tiny cellular

phone next to his ear.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

Louis, having just thrown on some pants, walks outside

his room and sees Ordell's big, black Oldsmobile parked

in front of the motel.

As he approaches, the power window on the driver's side

comes down, revealing a comfortable Ordell sitting back

in his seat looking up at Louis.

Louis doesn't say anything, he just puts his hands in his

pockets.

CLOSEUP: KEY GOING INTO TRUNK

Trunk opens showing Beaumont shot in the chest with half

his head blown off.

Louis looks inside, see Beaumont, looks at Ordell, then

back to Beaumont.

Ordell closes the trunk.

Ordell smiles (not his hustler smile, but a genuine

smile).

Louis grins.

They both bump fists.

TITLE CARD:

"JACKIE BROWN"

The sound of airplanes landing and taking off can be

heard underneath this...

INT. LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

A SUBTITLE reads:

"LOS ANGELES INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT PARKING GARAGE"

We look down a row of cars in an enclosed parking garage

at LAX. Jackie Brown, the Cabo Air stewardess from the

opening credits, walks into frame. We dolly behind her as

she walks down the row of cars.

She turns towards the voice/camera.

Young plainclothes cop, MARK DARGUS, walks up to her,

holding open his I.D. case.

Young plainclothes cop RAY NICOLET, enters the scene.

As Jackie pulls the cigarettes (Davidoffs) from her

purse, she says to Ray;

Jackie lights her cigarette with a yellow Bic lighter.

Jackie shrugs and says;

Dargus lays the flight bag on the pavement, gets down on

his haunches, and starts feeling through her things.

CLOSEUP FLIGHT BAG

A soiled blouse, uniform skirt, - then a manila envelope,

a fat one, nine-by-twelve.

Jackie watches him straighten the clasp...

ENVELOPE

Opens it. Out drops several packets of one hundred dollar

bills secured with rubberbands.

Nicolet whistles.

Dargus looks up at her.

JACKIE

Not saying anything at the moment.

Dargus smiles.

Nicolet smiles.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Doesn't smile back.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Sitting in a chair facing the two offscreen detectives.

Jackie lights up a cigarette. We don't leave the CLOSEUP

until noted.

INT. DARGUS OFFICE - DAY

Nicolet laughs O.S.

Jackie doesn't sat anything... she just smokes.

Not a word.

Jackie, she puts the "ool" in "cool."

Not a word.

Jackie puts out her cigarette.

She stares down the cops.

DARGUS AND NICOLET

We cut to the detective and the special agent for the

first time in the scene.

Jackie's eyes don't even narrow at the insult. She just

says without expression;

Jackie remains unmoved by this monologue.

Nicolet joins back in.

Jackie just stares at them, saying nothing.

Dargus sits behind his desk, with Jackie's flight bag on

it.

Jackie gets up from her chair, walks over to the desk,

unzips the bag, takes out the manila envelope and drops

it on the desk.

She reaches in the bag and brings out a pocketbook.

Nicolet takes the manila envelope.

Dargus points at a clear plastic bag with pills and

packets in it.

Nicolet takes out the bills from the envelope.

Nicolet takes the bills and looks inside the envelope.

His expression changes to a shit-eating grin.

Nicolet pulls out a clear cellophane sandwich bag with a

half-inch or so of white powder inside.

Nicolet and Dargus laugh at that.

Jackie just looks at the two grinning Cheshire cats as

the balance of power rolls over on her.

EXT. TORRANCE MUNICIPAL COURTHOUSE - DAY

A Los Angeles County Jail bus pulls up behind the

Torrance Court House.

INT. COUNTY JAIL BUS - DAY

Jackie, now wearing County Jail blues, sits next to

another BLACK WOMAN. Their hands cuffed together.

The bus stops. A rough-looking FEMALE COUNTY SHERIFF

unlocks the gate that encloses the prisoners. Then

explains in a you-better-do-exactly-what-I-say manner,

how they're going to leave the bus.

EXT. COUNTY JAIL BUS - DAY

MANY WOMEN, including Jackie, all wearing county blues

and handcuffed to each other, exit the bus.

The SHERIFFS lead them into the back entrance to the

court house.

INT. HALLWAY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Dargus and Nicolet confer with the PUBLIC DEFENDER, an

attractive blonde woman in a nice business suit.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Jackie and the Public Defender. Jackie, in her county

blues; Public Defender in her nice suit.

COURT IN SESSION

It's a full schedule in court today. Jackie sits with a

bunch of other females wearing county blues in the

defendant's area (where the jury sits during a jury

trial)

Dargus and Nicolet sit in the courtroom.

The JUDGE reads the next case.

Jackie rises amongst the other defendants.

The P.D. rises.

Dargus, the arresting officer, rises.

The Judge looks at the report, then at Jackie...

Jackie sits down.

Dargus sits down next to Nicolet. They smile and giggle

together.

Jackie sees them giggle like fifth graders. It fucking

pisses her off.

DIFFERENT PERSPECTIVE

We go from a CLOSEUP of a boiling Jackie, to a

perspective from the back of the courtroom.

We see Jackie in the defendant's area.

We see the two happy detectives walk past us on their way

out of the courtroom.

ORDELL

Sits in the back, watching the proceedings without any

expression. When he's seen enough, he stands up and out

of the shot leaving an EMPTY FRAME.

TITLE CARD

"MAX CHERRY"

INT. MAX CHERRY'S OFFICE - DAY

The bathroom door in Max's office. We hear a toilet flush

behind it. The door opens, and Max Cherry emerges,

zipping up his pants with a TV guide in his hand.

He looks up and stops dead.

Ordell sitting oh-so comfortably in the chair in front of

Max's desk.

Max looks at Ordell, then takes his place behind his

desk.

Sitting back in the chair - almost grinning - but not

quite.

Ordell gives up and takes an envelope out of his pocket.

INT. MAX'S CADILLAC (MOVING) - NIGHT

It's early evening; and Max's powder-blue Seville is

driving to the County Jail with a client, a young

Hispanic woman of twenty named ANITA.

Max gives up.

Like an exasperated teenager.

INT. L.A. COUNTY JAIL - NIGHT

POV THROUGH A WIRE MESH CAGE

Max and Anita, side by side. Anita's hands are cuffed

behind her back.

We're at the admitting desk of the L.A. County Jail. Max

undoes Anita's handcuffs, while a SHERIFF waits to take

her away.

She kisses Max on the cheek and the Sheriff takes her

away.

Max puts the cuffs away, sits on a bench, takes out a Len

Deighton paperback and begins to read.

MAX

Still reading his novel. We hear offscreen, a SHERIFF'S

voice.

Max puts his book down and see -

Jackie being led into the Admitting Area by TWO SHERIFFS.

She's wearing her stewardess uniform and carrying a small

envelope with her belongings in it and her shoes. When

Max was imagining a woman in her forties, he had someone

with a bit of wear and tear on them in mind. But this

Jackie Brown's a knockout.

As he watches her, she steps out of the County Jail

slippers she was wearing and slips into her shoes.

He approaches, handing her his card.

She takes the card and shakes his hand saying nothing.

INT. MAX'S CADILLAC - NIGHT

Max puts his key in the ignition, when Jackie asks;

She doesn't answer.

She waits.

Max digs the case out of his pocket, hands it to her,

then reaches up and turns on the light above them for her

to see.

MAX'S ID: SURETY AGENT LICENSED BY THE STATE OF

CALIFORNIA

She looks straight ahead.

Max shifts into drive.

Max rolls down his window at the front gate. A DEPUTY

comes out of the gatehouse and hands through the window

Max's .38 revolver, cylinder opened. Max hands the Deputy

his pass in exchange for the gun, says "thanks", then

puts the .38 in his glovebox in front of Jackie. He

drives on.

MAX AND JACKIE (MOVING)

EXT. THE COCKATOO INN - NIGHT

A big neon sign of a cockatoo sits on op of a red brick

inn.

INT. THE COCKATOO INN - NIGHT

CLOSEUP - A KNOB is pulled out.

Jackie picks up a pack of Mild Seven's cigarettes from

the bottom of a cigarette machine. She crosses the bar to

join Max, sitting at a small table waiting for her to

return.

The Cockatoo Inn is just what Jackie was looking for. A

dark and red cocktail lounge in Hawthorne off of

Hawthorne Boulevard by the apartment where the stewardess

lives (about ten minutes from LAX)

The clientele of the Cockatoo is an older, black crowd

and an even older white crowd who'd been coming here

years before it became a black bar.

A JUKEBOX plays soft, old-school R&B.

Jackie and Max sit side by side at a small table, lit by

a bar candle in a red glass thing.

Max drinks Bushmills over crushed ice. Jackie drinks

white wine. Jackie opens her Mild Sevens, offering one to

Max.

As she lights her cigarette.

Jackie takes the talk in a different direction.

A moment of silence between them, they both take drinks.

Max gestures to an older black cocktail waitress named

ROWEN for two more.

The Waitress comes with the drinks.

Rowen exits.

Max puts it together.

Jackie waits a moment before answering, weighs things in

her mind and makes a decision.

Jackie gets exasperated.

Max looks at Jackie thinking about something.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

CLOSEUP: ORDELL

Sitting in his black Mercedes, parked across the street

from Jackie's apartment building in Hawthorne. Johnny

Cash is playing inside his car.

EXT. JACKIE'S APARTMENT COMPLEX - NIGHT

ORDELL'S POV

Through the windshield, he sees Max's powder-blue

Cadillac Seville pull up to Jackie's apartment. She gets

out, ten bends down and talks to him through the window

of the passenger side door. Then makes a goobye gesture

and turns, walking into her apartment complex. Max drives

off.

ORDELL

While Johnny Cash continues crooning, Ordell puts on his

gloves. Then opens up his glovebox, taking out a little

Targa .22 pistol. He steps out of the car, slipping the

pistol into his coat pocket. We STEDICAM in front of him

as he walks across the street to Jackie's apartment. Once

inside the complex, Ordell passes us and WE FOLLOW BEHIND

HIM, up to Jackie's ground-floor apartment door.

He gives it a soft knock with one knuckle. He waits a

moment, then Jackie opens the door.

Jackie holds the door open for him.

INT. JACKIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Ordell steps inside. He moves over by a halogen lamp in

the living room.

Jackie still standing by the door. She doesn't look

frightened.

Ordell turns the halogen lamp to dim.

Jackie moves into the kitchen area. Ordell follows her,

hanging in the doorway, while she makes the drink. Jackie

doesn't turn on the light.

Taking a glass from the cupboard.

Opening the freezer and filling a glass with ice cubes

and taking out vodka.

Opens refrigerator, light cuts into the kitchen. She

takes out orange juice, then closes the door.

Ordell has to stop and think.

Jackie makes screwdriver.

Jackie doesn't answer. She just walks up to Ordell

handing him his yellow drink in the darkness. Ordell

takes it, continues to look at Jackie.

Jackie says to his face;

Then she walks past him back to the living room. She goes

over to the halogen lamp, turning the light up brighter,

then moves by the door, still standing and looking at

Ordell in the kitchen doorway.

Ordell by the halogen lamp. He turns it back to dim.

Ordell moves slowly towards Jackie.

Jackie slowly shakes her head "no."

Ordell directly in front of Jackie, he gently places his

gloved hands on her shoulders.

Jackie shakes her head "no."

Ordell's gloved fingertips move up her collarbone to her

throat, gently touching her skin. Jackie locks eyes with

his, but still shows no fear.

At this moment the film becomes a:

SPLIT SCREEN

On the RIGHT-HAND SIDE is Ordell with his hands barely

touching Jackie's throat. On the LEFT-HAND SIDE is Max

driving home in his Seville.

MAX IN CAR

Max drives home, an almost moony romantic look no his

face. He can't stop thinking about Jackie. During the

night she'd have a gleam in her eyes, the look saying;

"WE COULD HAVE FUN". Unless she was appraising kinda him

with the look, making a judgment and what it said was; "I

COULD USE YOU". Either way it was a turn-on.

Max pulls into the driveway of his small house in

Torrance.

ORDELL AND JACKIE

Jackie shakes her head from side to side.

Ordell moves his thumbs from her collarbone to the middle

of her throat.

Jackie shakes her head from side to side without her eyes

leaving his. Reaches over the seat

With his hands on Jackie's throat, staring into the

woman's eyes, from BELOW FRAME then feels something hard

the fuck against his crotch. Neither break eye contact.

Ordell hears a CLICK.

Can't believe it.

MAX IN CAR

Max takes his keys, then to the glove box...

THE GLOVE BOX

The gun is gone.

A CLOSEUP OF MAX'S GUN IN ORDELL ORDELL'S CROTCH

CLOSEUP GUN IN CROTCH

Ordell flashes his hustler's smile and lets go.

END OF SPLIT SCREEN

Jackie turns Ordell around, gun firmly in his back, and

pushes him against the wall.

Jackie has Ordell against the wall and is frisking him

the way a cop would. She finds the .22 pistol in his

pocket

She shoves both guns in Ordell's back.

Ordell moves over to a chair across from the couch.

Ordell still tries bullshit...

Ordell sits.

Ordell does...

Jackie turns the halogen lamp to light.

Jackie sits down on the couch, holding a gun in each

hand, both pointed dead at Ordell.

A coffee table lays between them.

Ordell, hands behind his head, continues to mumble...

Ordell looks at her a moment and says;

Jackie shakes her head "no!"

Ordell, very interested.

Ordell just takes in what the woman said.

Ordell has to smile at the woman.

DOORWAY

Ordell goes through FRAME, out the door, Jackie steps

into FRAME, and talks with him.

Ordell leaves.

Jackie shuts the door, and leaves FRAME.

OVER BLACK

We hear a knock-knock on the door.

SAME SHOT DORWAY

Except it's day. Jackie in a bathrobe steps into FRAME

and opens the door. She says to the yet-unseen-by-camera

visitor;

She leaves FRAME, and Max enters it, closing the door

behind him. Max stands by the door, a little surprised

and a touch pissed at the nonchalantness.

As he stands on the threshold to her living room, waiting

for her to return with the gun, feeling foolish, he

thinks about hauling her ass back to the stockade.

That'll change her expression, he'd bet.

She returns from the bedroom, gun in hand, wearing a sort

of sad smile.

Then, as quickly as the anger rose in Max, it dissipates

completely, leaving only curiosity.

Jackie head to the kitchen, making the coffee. Max sits

at the dining table off of the kitchen.

She puts a finger in the coffeemaker and starts scooping

coffee in it.

Jackie goes to the sink, filling the coffee pot.

She turns off the water.

Pouring water into the coffee machine.

She turns on the coffeemaker.

Jackie leaves the kitchen.

Max's eyes follow her to the living room.

Jackie ends her knees and goes through a stack of records

leaned up against the wall on the floor.

She finds a record, takes it out of the pile, removes the

album from the sleeve, and places it on her stereo

turntable.

The song starts; it's an old romantic soul music number

from the early seventies.

Jackie picks up her cigarettes off the coffee table.

Jackie enters the kitchen door frame by Max. She lights a

cigarette and stands.

Max listens to the soul song.

They listen for a moment.

Jackie goes back in the kitchen. Coffee's almost there,

but not quite. She pulls down two mugs from a cabinet.

She pours the coffee.

Jackie walks to the table with the two coffee mugs and

sits down.

Max watches her a moment

Jackie takes a drink of coffee.

Jackie smiles.

Jackie smiles into her coffee.

Max smiles.

Jackie's smile grows bigger.

INT. LOS ANGELES POLICE DEPARTMENT - DAY

A.T.F. man, Ray Nicolet, moves down the hallway of the

big building... ten heads for the office of Mark Dargus.

He reaches the closed door... raps on it.

Nicolet opens the door, revealing Dargus and Jackie Brown

sitting in the office talking.

Jackie waves.

Dargus stands up and says to Jackie;

The two detectives step outside and close the door on

Jackie as she pulls out her cigarettes.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Inside Dargus' office, smoking a Mild Seven.

Dargus and Nicolet come back inside.

The two cops look at each other.

Nicolet looks at Jackie.

TITLE CARD:

"LOUIS GARA & MELANIE"

FADE UP ON ON TV

Helmut Berger slaps a woman in the face with a newspaper,

proclaiming he's the "mad dog." The film is an Italian

Policier from the seventies.

Melanie sits in a comfy chair long-ways, bare legs

hanging over the arm. As she watches the TV, she picks up

a big bong with it's own handle. He takes a hit.

Melanie's dressed in her usual Melanie-uniform of shorts

and a loose top.

The front door opens, and Ordell and Louis walk through

it carrying shopping bags.

We notice that Louis is sportin' new duds. Louis' new

"look" is a retro seventies-style bowling shirt and black

jeans.

Melanie notices the change.

Ordell notices the bong in her hand and the smoke in the

air.

Melanie smiles.

Louis sits on the couch. He smiles at the comeback.

Melanie and Louis laugh.

The phone rings.

He picks it up.

No, Jackie, I didn't get your message.

Ordell gives her a "silence" gesture and look.

Melanie trades a look with Louis like "I'm in trouble,"

all the while smiling like a shark.

Louis smiles to himself.

Melanie holds up the bong, offering him a hit.

Ordell's on the phone.

Louis has the bong in front of him.

Melanie stays in her chair long-ways.

Louis takes it.

Ordell's on the phone.

INT. COCKATOO INN

Jackie sits at the bar talking on their phone. We see

both sides.

Louis exhales his smoke, does an older man cough.

Ordell hangs up the phone.

Louis with a smile.

Melanie laughs.

Ordell takes the remote control and turns the station

till he finds a channel with cartoons.

Melanie climbs out of the chair and walks Ordell to the

door,

Ordell says to her in the doorway;

Melanie gives him a sarcastic, "Oh, you're so funny"

look.

Ordell kisses her quick on the mouth, then says past her;

Ordell leaves and Melanie closes the door. She turns

around and looks at Louis.

She crosses to the kitchen.

She goes into the kitchen and starts making her Metrix

shake.

He looks around and spots something interesting.

TWO SMALL PHOTOGRAPHS

In a clear, plastic frame. Melanie, circa 1976, at about

sixteen wearing roller-disco skates. Melanie, in a green

setting, about five years ago, wearing a pretty Oriental-

style dress, with a "smile for the camera" look on her

face. The photo was obviously a picture of Melanie with

somebody else that's been cut in half. Somebody's

disembodied arm still rests on her shoulder.

Louis picks up the photo frame.

She looks and sees what he's talking about.

Louis walks over.

She hits Whip on her blender. It makes an infernal noise

till she hits Stop!

Carrying the blender full of Metrix, she walks over and

looks at the picture.

Melanie drinks her Metrix.

Melanie looks up at Louis.

OVER BLACK

SUBTITLE:

"THREE MINUTES LATER"

LOUIS

Lies on the couch on his back and Melanie sits on top of

him. They're going at it like a couple of fuck monkeys.

Almost on the fade up, Louis cums.

She hops off and OUT OF FRAME.

INT. MUSIC STORE - DAY

CLOSEUP a rack of CDs all beginning with "D" are flipped

through, till it stops on one CD, "The Best of the

DELFONICS."

Max is standing in he soul music section o a music store.

He lifts out the CD and turns it over.

It has the song Jackie played this morning.

He smiles and takes the CD up to the register.

CLOSEUP the COCKATOO INN neon sign, unlit during the day.

INT. THE COCKATOO INN - DAY

Ordell walks into the dark red cocktail lounge in the

middle of the day and sees Jackie sitting at the bar

drinking a white wine. Old-school soul plays on the

jukebox. He sits next to her.

A black bartender named FLOYD approaches Ordell.

Jackie smiles.

Floyd makes Ordell's drink.

Floyd comes back with Ordell's screwdriver.

Ordell digs in his pocket and gives Floyd a five.

Floyd leaves.

Ordell freaks.

Jackie smiles.

Ordell smiles.

They both slap palms.

INT. MELANIE'S BEACH APARTMENT - DAY

CLOSEUP - Louis taking a hit off Melanie's bong.

Louis and Melanie are back in the living room, kicking

back, taking bong hits.

As Louis gets his hit, Melanie talks;

Louis finishes his hit and slides the bong back across

the coffee table to Melanie.

Referring to the bong.

She starts preparing a bowl.

Melanie still preparing her bowl.

She takes a major bong hit... holds in the smoke... then

while holding in the smoke, says;

Melanie lets out her stream of smoke and flashes her

shark smile.

Melanie lets out a sarcastic laugh.

INT. COCKATOO INN - DAY

Jackie explaining the plan to Ordell.

They clink their glasses together.

CLOSEUP DIGITAL CLOCK

It flips to 11:00 P.M.

It's now getting late at night. Jackie comes home. She's

dressed differently than she was at the Cockatoo. In

fact, she looks like she's coming home from a date.

She walks into her bedroom... kicks off her shoes...

takes her earring off, putting them on the night-stand by

the bed... she sees that her answering machine is

flashing. She hits play.

We begin a SLOW ZOOM into the answering machine. Never

seeing Jackie again.

The machine voice says;

Max's voice comes out of the machine.

EXT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY

We se the huge Del Amo Mall from the parking area.

A SUBTITLE reads:

"DEL AMO MALL TORRANCE, CALIFORNIA LARGEST INDOOR MALL IN

THE WORLD"

INT. DEL AMO MALL - FOOD COURT - DAY

The Del Amo Mall on a lazy midday in the middle of the

week. A few people, mostly black, mill around, but it's

not like it is on the weekend.

The international food court, where fast-food versions of

international cuisine are available to all the hungry Del

Amo Mall shoppers.

Jackie and Ordell sit at a table in the food court. She

drinks an iced tea from Teriyaki Donut. A collection of

Broadway shopping bags sit on the table.

We join in mid-conversation.

INT. DEL AMO MALL - U.A. CINEMAS - DAY

We're outside the Del Amo UA Cinemas, a six-screen

theater that's been in the Del Amo Mall since the early

seventies. A small afternoon crowd is exiting the cinema,

having just watched their matinee. Max Cherry is among

them. He exits the theater, and strolls through the mall.

BACK TO JACKIE AND ORDELL

In the food court.

Ordell rises from the table.

Jackie moves a Broadway bag towards him.

He takes it.

We follow with Ordell out of the food court, when he

stops...

... He see Max Cherry strolling through the mall.

Ordell almost steps into a store to get out of view.

"What the fuck is Max Cherry doing here?"

As Ordell watches, he sees Max head towards the food

court.

Max turns and sees Jackie siting there drinking her iced

tea, smoking her Mild Seven, and smiling up at him.

Max smiles back.

He approaches her table.

BACK TO ORDELL

Watching Max sit down and make himself comfortable at

Jackie's table.

BACK TO MAX AND JACKIE

With a smile on her face;

Max smiles.

Gesturing to the Broadway bags on the table.

Jackie nods her head "yes."

She shakes her head "no."

Jackie looks at him, "wow, that was a statement," but she

doesn't say anything.

Max continues.

FLASH ON:

A RELEASE FORM

With a date on it. Jackie's hand is signing her name. We

WHIP UP and se her face, just as Max Cherry approaches

her, handing her his business card.

BACK TO MAX AND JACKIE

FLASH ON

Max is dropping off Jackie at her apartment and saying

goodbye.

Max finding no gun in his glove box.

Max in his office, taking another pistol from his drawer,

and a stun gun.

BACK TO MAX AND JACKIE

Jackie takes a pause before saying;

Jackie smiles at him behind cigarette smoke.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Hold for a few beats, then...

TITLE CARD:

"MONEY EXCHANGE 10,000"

Over this card, we hear an airplane landing.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Back at work, standing at the exit of her plane. All the

passengers are filtering out. She says goodbye.

INT. LAX PARKING STRUCTURE - DAY

Jackie, wearing her stewardess uniform, walks into the

LAX parking structure, pulling her bad on wheels behind

her.

Nicolet and Dargus are waiting for her.

Jackie smiles. They all fall in step towards Jackie's

Honda.

INT. JACKIE'S HONDA - DAY

The two cops and the black woman sit parked in her Honda.

She, behind the wheel, Nicolet next to her in the

passenger seat, Dargus in the backseat. Nicolet has the

flight bag in his lap. He's taking out the manila

envelope with the ten thousand inside. Their demeanor is

very different from the first time they met. The three

now almost act like friends.

Pointing to a small mike on his lapel.

He opens it and takes out the ten thousand dollars.

Nicolet finishes counting, then hushes them up.

She holds it up.

EXT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY

The huge Del Amo Mall.

INT. DEL AMO MALL - FOOD COURT - DAY

The Del Amo Mall on another lazy midday in the middle of

the week.

Max rides up an escalator in the mall. He casually

strolls through the mall, goes into a cappuccino bar

called "BUSTA CAP" across from the food court. Walking up

to the counter;

Max checks his watch: 4:30. He looks over at the food

court and spots Jackie sitting at a table by herself.

INT. JACKIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Jackie on the phone with Max, dressed for bed (long t-

shirt and panties).

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT

Max in his office on the phone.

BACK TO MAX AT THE MALL

He ponders his words as he watches her from a distance.

INT. FOOD COURT - DAY

Jackie sits at a table by herself, eating Japanese food

from Teriyaki Donut and drinking an iced tea. As she eats

she hears;

Jackie looks up and sees a skinny YOUNG GIRL, black,

quite pretty, no older than twenty.

She holds a tray filled with tacos, enchiladas, rice and

beans and a giant-sized Coke. She also has a Broadway

shopping bag hanging from her arm.

The Young Girl does.

Jackie looks at her tray of food.

It would seem our Young Girl's from the South.

The Young Girl who hasn't looked right at Jackie since

sitting down, bends sideways to glance under the table.

She looks up...

... then back down at her tray.

Sheronda starts eating, head down, hunching close to the

tray.

Without raising her head, she shakes it from side to

side.

Jackie takes out a pack of Davidoffs and lights one up

with her yellow Bic. As she does this she observes

Sheronda eating.

Without raising her head.

Sheronda hesitates, then says without raising her head.

Sheronda looks up at her...

... She looks back down.

Jackie picks up Sheronda's bag and leaves.

INT. DEL AMO MALL - BUSTA CAP - DAY

Max drinking his cafS mocha sans whipped cream, watches

Jackie leave the Young Girl and with Broadway bag in

hand, walk out of the food court.

Max watches her walk down the mall when two young men in

sport coats, jeans, and cowboy boots step out of a B.

Dalton bookstore, stop her and begin talking. Knowing

they must be Nicolet and Dargus, he watches one of them

take the Broadway bag from Jackie and look inside. They

talk for a minute - it would seem about nothing too

serious. Jackie nods her head, listens to the two cops,

nods her head again, and then walks off.

As he watches her walk away from the cops...

FLASH ON:

JACKIE AND MAX ON PHONE

BACK TO MAX AT MALL

Max watches the two cops turn their attention to the

young girl eating in the food court.

Max watches her, too. The Young Girl continues to work

her way through her Mexican food, when she turns her head

to an OLDER BLACK WOMAN sitting at the next table. The

older woman says something, and the younger woman hands

her the ashtray Jackie was using.

Max watches the Young Girl finish her food and get up

from the table. She stoops down to get the Broadway

shopping bag and walks out of the food court.

Max watches Nicolet and Dargus let the Young Girl get a

little ahead, then follow after her. They're gone.

Max turns back on the older woman all alone.

She finishes the coffee she was drinking and stands up,

carrying - how about that? - A Broadway shopping bag. The

woman heads out of the mall.

Max follows her.

The older woman walks past us. She heads straight for the

exit.

EXT. DEL AMO MALL - PARKING LOT - DAY

Max follows the woman outside.

She walks down a line of cars, then gets in a big, tan

Mercury sedan. She drives of...

... but not before Max writes down her license plate

number.

FLASH ON:

MAX AND JACKIE ON PHONE

INT. MAX'S CADILLAC - DAY

Max climbs into his Seville, starts her up, and drives

out of the parking lot.

CLOSEUP MAX

Driving down the street, lost in thought.

He hits 'play' on the dash CD player. The Delfonics fill

the cab of the Caddy.

BLACK

A garage door is lifted open, revealing Ordell and Louis.

EXT. STORAGE FACLITY - DAY

Ordell and Louis are at Mr. Robbie's storage facility. A

VAN is backed up nect to the opening. The facility is

pitch black. Ordell ahs a big flashlight in his hand.

He turns on the flashlight.

He shines the beam into darkness. We see the facility is

filled to the gills with machine guns, shotguns, uzis, a

rocket launcher, and handguns of many types.

Ordell opens the back doors of the van. They start

unloading machine guns and boxes of ammo.

They both laugh together.

Ordell stops unloading.

Ordell looks at him.

Louis starts unloading.

EXT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

EXTREME CLOSEUP - Jackie's finger presses a small black

button next to the

handwritten name, "M. RALSTON."

EXTREME CLOSEUP SPEAKER BOX

JACKIE

Bends down to talk in the speaker.

INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT HALLWAY - DAY

Jackie walks down the hallway and finds the door.

She rings the doorbell.

The door opens, she sees Melanie (for the first time) on

the other side. Melanie, dressed in a t-shirt, cut offs,

doesn't say a word - just turns around and walks away.

Once Melanie leaves, she sees Ordell standing inside the

apartment, screwdriver in hand, yelling after Melanie;

He turns his attention to Jackie.

Jackie steps inside.

She sees Louis (for the first time) sitting on the couch.

Ordell says to Louis, but loud enough for Melanie in the

other room to hear;

Melanie comes out of the bedroom with her sunglasses,

sandals, bag strung across her shoulders and her keys in

her hand. She makes a bee-line towards the door without

saying nothin' to nobody.

The door SLAMS behind her.

Ordell looks to Jackie, raises his screwdriver and says;

EXT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - BALCONY - DAY

Ordell and Jackie on the balcony.

Ordell tries to stop the hostile back and forth.

Ordell opens the sliding glass and says to Louis in the

living room;

Louis gets up to make the call.

Ordell turns back to Jackie and smiles, holding up his

screwdriver.

INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Ordell and Jackie sit on stools around the kitchen

counter/bar. Louis sits with them on the phone, silent.

Louis shakes his head.

Louis hangs up the phone and joins the debriefing.

Jackie's pager goes off. She looks at it.

INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - HALLWAY - DAY

Ordell walks Jackie to the elevator.

They reach the elevator. She presses the button.

The elevator arrives. Jackie steps in.

... the elevator shuts... As it shuts Ordell yells;...

... the door shuts.

CLOSEUP ORDELL

He doesn't like the last piece of new information.

EXT. THE STRAND - DAY

The Strand is the hip surfer street in downtown Hermosa

Beach. Jackie leaves the apartment building. She walks to

her car when she spots a funky little beach bar called,

"Sally Leroy's."

INT. SALLY LEROY'S - DAY

Sally Leroy's is a beach bar with surfboards, different

beer signs, and pictures of Marilyn Monroe, Elvis

Presley, James Dean, Ann Margaret, and surfers riding

monster waves all over the place.

The JUKEBOX plays a loud seventies rock number.

BEGINNING OF SHOT

The camera picks Jackie up through the window, walking

into the place and going up to the bar...

A female bartender in her mid-twenties, wearing a plaid

workshirt, named WANDA, goes to Jackie.

... We follow with her to the back of the bar... the

MUSIC is LOUD... the phone booth is occupied by a fat

older GUY wearing surf clothes and sporting a mustache

like a walrus. Jackie waits for him to finish his call...

As she waits, the CAMERA MOVES BACK... until a blonde

head of hair comes into the f.g....

The CAMERA MOVES around to a CLOSEUP ON MELANIE, sucking

on a beer, moving her head to the music, and watching

Jackie. She smiles and steps OUT OF FRAME.

END OF SHOT

Jackie hears behind her;

Jackie turns and sees Melanie holding a beer, standing

behind her.

Jackie turns to leave.

Jackie looks at her a moment.

Wanda approaches.

Wanda goes away. Jackie and Melanie sit at the bar. The

MUSIC is LOUD, and they have to talk over it. Melanie

moves her head to it during the conversation.

Jackie nods "yes."

Melanie makes a face to show pain.

Wanda brings the drinks.

Melanie digs in her purse for the money.

Melanie takes her Jaeger shot, lets it go down, then

continues.

Jackie nods 'yes', as she sips her beer.

Jackie smiles.

Jackie leaves.

CLOSEUP MELANIE

Watches her go.

INT. STEAKHOUSE - NIGHT

Jackie and Nicolet sit at a steakhouse eating a steak

dinner. Nicolet drinks beer, Jackie drinks white wine.

NICOLET AND DARGUS

In a car, parked, on surveillance.

COPS POV

Louis with the van, at the storage facility.

MUG SHOT SIMONE

The older woman in the mall.

BACK TO BAR

INT. JACKIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max sits on the couch in Jackie's apartment drinking

white wine.

Jackie paces in front of him, white wine in one hand,

Davidoff in the other, going over the details of

tomorrow. One could notice a slight change in Jackie.

There's a bit of an edge to Miss Brown that's bubbling

underneath her cool surface. It's understandable. After

all, she's been the architect of this half-a-million

dollars switcheroo. She's moved heaven and earth to make

all the pieces fall into place, and all the players thnk

what she wants them to think.

As she talks to Max she knows tomorrow all her hard work

will either fail or succeed. But don't take this

difference the wrong way. This edge I'm referring to is

not one born out of fear (Jackie's nervous, but she's not

afraid). It's more the edge an athlete might feel before

an all-important competition.

BACK TO JACKIE WITH NICOLET

MEDIUM JACKIE

BACK TO JACKIE AND MAX

The phone rings.

INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

EXTREME CLOSEUP - Ordell on the phone

Melanie is lying on the couch, sprawled out like a cat.

Louis sits at the other end of the couch. They're

watching "Dirty Mary and Crazy Larry" on TV.

ON TV

Peter Fonda and Susan George make jokes as they're

pursued by police cars.

They can hear Ordell on the phone. Melanie smiling at

Louis, flirtatiously and conspiratorially lifts her bare

foot and rubs his arm with it. Louis turns to her and

gives her a look that says: "I'm not on your side, bitch.

So knock it of."

Melanie sees this and takes her foot away.

Louis turns back to the television.

CLOSEUP MELANIE

Looks at Louis for a moment, then sighs, saying under her

breath;

TITLE CARD:

"MONEY EXCHANGE 550,000"

A GRAPHIC MAP

With Mexico and California on it. On the Mexico side we

see "CABO SAN LUCAS" with a big circle around it. On the

California side we see "LAX" in a similar circle. The

tiny figure of a black AIRPLANE appears in the Cabo

circle. With appropriate SOUND EFFECTS it takes off from

Cabo, flying towards LAX, leaving a dotted line behind

it. The CAMERA moves into a CLOSEUP of the little black

airplane.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Looking down...

INT. AIRPLANE BATHROOM - DAY

Rearranging her bag. The five hundred thousand inside

takes up half the space. She tucks lingerie around the

edges, covers the money with blouses, shoes, and skirts

and ties I all down tight. Then places a fat envelope

with fifty thousand right on top.

INT. CABIN - AIRPLANE - DAY

Jackie steps out of the bathroom, walks down the aisle,

and is stopped by a PASSENGER.

INT. LAX PARKING STRUCTURE - DAY

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME: 3:00"

Jackie steps into the LAX parking structure, pulling her

bag on wheels behind her.

Waiting for her is Ray Nicolet.

They fall into step towards her car.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

This information stops Jackie in her tracks.

JACKIE'S POV

Nicolet, who kept walking when Jackie stopped, looks back

at Jackie.

Jackie starts walking again

INT. JACKIE'S HONDA - DAY

Jackie and Nicolet in the parked car. Ray has the flight

bag in his lap.

He unzips it.

He sees the clothes with the envelope on top.

Jackie watches all of this.

He puts the envelope back in the bag and feels through

the folds of a skirt.

Jackie, cool.

Nicolet's fingers move to a pair of black heels wedged

into the side... they touch the shoes... then move over

to the envelope, opens the clasp and takes out five

rubber-banded bond packets of loot.

INT. MAX CHERRY'S OFFICE - DAY

Max Cherry sits behind his desk. WINSTON POWELL, the big

black guy from the photo, is at the other desk on the

phone. Max looks at his watch.

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME: 3:30"

Max stands up, takes the sport coat from the back of his

chair, putsit on, and walks over to Winston's desk.

Winston, still on the phone, looks up.

Winston goes back to the phone.

Max walks out of the office.

EXT. SAM'S HOFFIN BRAUR - DAY

Sam's Hoffin Braur (German for beer garden) is a strip

joint bar in downtown L.A.

INT SAM'S HOFFIN BRAUR - DAY

Ordell's on the pay phone. A STRIPPER strips in the b.g.

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME: 3:47"

INT. MELANIE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Louis stands in the empty living room, talking to Ordell

on the phone. Kate Bush plays in the b.g.

Ordell snaps at Louis, not so harsh Louis is forced to

retaliate, but enough to express his loss of patience.

He hangs up on Louis.

Louis, pissed at being hung up on and talked to like

that, hangs up the phone and turns his frustration where

it rightly belongs - Melanie.

Louis stomps towards the bedroom where the music's

playing.

MONTAGE

We see a montage of the individual characters in route to

the mall.

JACKIE

In her Honda, smoking a cigarette, looking cool as usual,

driving to the mall. Her car plays seventies soul.

MAX

In his Cadillac Seville, cruising down Hawthorne

Boulevard to the mall. He plays hid Delfonics CD.

LOUIS AND MELANIE

In Melanie's Toyota drive towards the mall. Melanie

drives singing along with Kate Bush on her car stereo.

EXT. DEL AMO MALL PARKING LOT - DAY

Jackie's car pulls up to a lined parking space in the

parking lot.

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME 3:52"

Jackie gets out of the Honda with her flight bag. She

goes to her hatchback, takes a Robinson's/May bag, lines

the first half of the bag with old paperbacks.

Then takes out of the flight bag the envelope with the

fifty-thousand marked dollars, takes one packet of ten

thousand, and puts it in her pocket. She lines the

envelope with forty thousand across the books, then fills

the rest of the bag with beach towels.

Then with her flight bag slung over her shoulder,

carrying the Robinson's/May bag and with all the

confidence of a world champion prize fighter going into

the ring, she strides toward the hugs mall.

INT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY

Jackie enters the mall. She looks at the people buzzing

around. Any one of them could be surveillance.

She calmly walks down the mall, then turns into the

Roinson's/May store.

INT. ROBINSON'S/MAY - DESIGNER CLOTHES - DAY

Jackie, in her Cabo Air uniform, walks up to a young

Asian saleswoman named Amy in the Robinson's/May designer

clothing area.

The saleswoman smiles when she sees Jackie.

Jackie steps out of the fitting room wearing a real

sharp, badass, black suit with a white blouse.

Jackie moves over to the mirror, and checks herself out.

Jackie studies her reflection.

Jackie walks into the fitting room.

INT. FITTING ROOM - DAY

She walks down the fitting room hallway with changing

cubicles on her right, enters the last one.

She closes the door and sits down on the bench in between

her flight bag full of money and the Robinson's/May bag.

A full-length mirror is straight I front of her. She

looks at herself... when someone comes into the stall

next to her.

Melanie's voice comes from the other side of the wall.

A Robinson's/May bag, like Jackie's, filled with towels,

comes sliding underneath the stall.

Jackie picks up her Robinson's/May bag, filled with

books, towels and the marked forty-thousand dollars.

She takes the loose packet of ten-thousand marked dollars

and lies it on top of the bag.

As she does all this Melanie continues talking.

Jackie slides the Robinson's/May bag with money under the

stall.

Melanie sees the money on top and stops talking.

We hear the SOUND of Melanie leaving.

Jackie then transfers the half of a million dollars out

of her flight bag into Melanie's Robinson's/May bag. She

sticks her uniform in the flight bag.

Then takes the towels and puts them on top of the money.

She grabs her flight bag and leaves, leaving behind the

Robinson's/May bag filled with half of a million dollars.

INT. DESIGNER CLOTHES - DAY

Jackie, looking sharp in her new suit but acting a touch

frantic and anxious, walks rapidly toward the sales

counter where Amy waits for her.

As Jackie and the salesgirl complete their transaction

the CAMERA CIRCLES them, SLOWLY at first, but more

RAPIDLY each go-around. They complete the transaction and

as Jackie starts to leave, she stops and says to Amy;

She leaves. We follow her...

INT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY

... Jackie walks out of Robinson's/May hurriedly into the

main mall. The calm, cool stride we're used to with

Jackie is completely gone.

She stops, looks around, head darting from one direction

to another. She looks in a panic. The CAMERA begins to

twirl around her. She seems to be looking for something

she doesn't see. She looks helpless and on the verge of

tears.

As the twirling CAMERA circles her, she screams;

The CAMERA stops twirling.

Nicolet, Dargus, and two other plainclothes cops, come

running out of a store towards Jackie. As they reach her,

a frantic Jackie yells;

EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY

Louis and Melanie pull up to a lined parking space in

Melanie's Toyota.

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME: 4:12"

Louis is the first out of the car.

INT. DEL AMO MALL - DAY

We STEDICAM in front of them, Louis the rapid pacesetter,

pulling Melanie behind him by the hand. Melanie carries

the Robinson's/May switch bag.

They go inside Robinson's/May...

INT. ROBINSON'S/MAY - DAY

... We STEDICAM into Robison's/May with them. We lose

them for a moment behind racks of dresses and mannequins,

but end up landing on Jackie in her black suit, looking

in a mirror and talking to Amy on the Designer Clothes

floor.

We PAN away and find Louis and Melanie by a dress rack,

watching Jackie.

Louis' hand immediately goes to his forehead and touches

dampness.

Louis shoots Melanie a hard convict look.

Melanie smiles at him, feeling the stare, but too much of

a natural-born smart ass to change.

Louis looks over at the fitting room. Jackie is going

inside it, and the saleswoman is walking away towards

him.

He watches the saleswoman walk by him, then looks back in

time to see Melanie enter the fitting room.

He decides he's watching the fitting room entrance too

much, so he starts throwing his look around when he sees

something that stops him cold.

MAX CHERRY

Max is looking at dresses, paying no attention to the

fitting room.

He thinks, 'what the fuck is Max Cherry doing here?'

Max, doing what he's doing, looks up and sees Louis

staring at him across the floor. Max smiles and gives

Louis a wave before turning his back to him and continues

to do what he was doing.

He quickly looks around the store to see anything else;

any more surprise guests, possible police surveillance.

Everything looks normal. The saleswoman is behind the

register ringing up Jackie's purchase. The few customers

there are doing customer stuff.

Then he sees Melanie come out with a Robinson's/May bag

and head down a different aisle.

He hurries down his aisle and cuts her off. Their whole

fight is said tense and low.

She tries to push past him, and he catches her by her arm

and pulls her around.

Melanie realizes Louis ain't fuckin' kiddin'. Not only

that, this old guy looks close to buggin'. She lets go of

the bag.

He takes it. They start walking. We STEDICAM in front of

them.

Louis has had enough of her slang and says tensely

through gritted teeth;

In mid-walk, Melanie asks him;

Louis stops dead. He looks around, confused.

Pissed, he leaves FRAME. Melanie, wearing her Melanie

smirk, follows behind.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY

Louis, clutching the shopping bag close to his chest,

walks rapidly down an aisle of parked cars.

Melanie follows close behind.

We STEDICAM alongside. We walk for awhile, Louis changes

direction to another aisle. WE'RE NOW IN FRONT of him. We

see he has a searching look on his face.

Louis doesn't answer.

Melanie laughs.

Louis could kill her right now. Just take his gun out of

his pants and shoot her in her snickering face. But

instead of doing what he wants, he does what he should.

He doesn't answer of look back. (If he looked back and

saw that Melanie-smirk, he couldn't e responsible for

what happens.)He changes directions, cuts down another

aisle and hopes for both their sakes she shuts the fuck

up.

But our Melanie just keeps on being Melanie.

They walk it; it's not it.

Louis changes direction and cuts between some cars to the

next one.

In between two cars, Louis spins on her.

Melanie was surprised by the spin, but is about to say

something anyway when Louis put his hand up and says;

That did it!

Louis whips out the Beretta Ordell gave him, shoots

her... BAM... in the belly.

She bounces OFF one of the cars and goes down.

BAM... Louis shoots her again on the ground.

One; to make sure. Two; cause it felt good.

Then he hurries of for his car. WE FOLLOW IN FRONT OF

HIM. He looks around, then yells out;

He hops in the car, and throws it into reverse.

We can se Melanie's bare legs sticking out from a row of

cars. Louis stops the Toyota alongside the dead Melanie,

and yells through the passenger window;

He drives away.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY

Max Cherry's Cadillac Seville pulls up to a lined space

in the parking lot.

SUBTITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TIME: 4:04"

Max gets out of his car and casually strolls towards the

Del Amo Mall.

INT. ROBINSON'S/MAY - DAY

Max, hands in pocket, strolls unhurriedly through the

Robinson's/May store.

He walks around the store, keeping one eye peeled toward

the Designer Clothes section. He walks up to a jewelry

counter and begins looking at he pieces in the display

case, when a pretty, young SALESGIRL comes up to him.

She goes off.

He looks towards Designer Clothes and sees Jackie walking

out of the fitting room wearing the cool black suit.

Jackie moves over to the mirror and checks herself out.

Max looks back to the jewelry display case, saying under

his breath;

Jackie looks at her reflection in the mirror. Then she

lifts her eyes, meeting Max's across the room. Max gives

her a nod of his head to show he approves. Jackie smiles

and breaks contact, turning to Amy. We hear her say from

a distance. "This looks pretty good on me."

Max hears a commotion behind him and turns to see Louis

and Melanie hurriedly making their way towards Designer

Clothes.

He turns his attention back to browsing through dresses

on a rack.

He sees Louis and Melanie squabbling.

He sees Jackie disappear into the fitting room.

He sees Amy leaving the fitting room entrance.

He watches Melanie, by herself, watch Amy leave. Melanie

watches the fitting room for a few moments. Gathering her

courage, then makes her move, entering the fitting room.

Max smiles to himself, "so far so good" he thinks. He

throws a look towards Louis, only to see Louis staring

dead at him with an unhappy look on his face. Max returns

the look with a smile and a wave then turns his back on

his before he can see a reaction.

Max continues his fake browsing.

He sees Melanie come out of the fitting room carrying a

Robinson's/May bag close to her chest.

She and Louis disappear.

He sees Jackie come out of the fitting room, go over to

Amy and buy the dress. Jackie goes into her act, acting

agitated and distracted as she talks to Amy, pays with

cash, then leaves stopping to say;

She's gone.

Amy is left alone by the cashier counter.

It's Max's turn.

As Max looks at Amy, then at the fitting room entrance,

he says to himself;

Max takes a few moments...

... then walks over to Amy.

Max walks toward the fitting room, enters it, walks down

the length of stalls, and stops in front of the last one.

He opens the door to the stall. Sitting in the corner is

the Robinson's/May bag. He walks over to it, lifts out

the towels, and sees all that money. He replaces the

towels, picks up the bag and leaves. HE walks across the

Designer Clothes, passes by Amy, says;

Max walks unhurriedly toward the door that leads to the

parking lot.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DEL AMO MALL - DAY

He's outside; nobody's stopped him. He keeps walking

towards his blue Seville. He keeps walking unhurriedly,

never looking back. He gets to his car, uses opening the

car door as an excuse to look back at the mall.

It's normal. Nobody's after him, nobody's watching him.

He made it. It worked.

Max allows himself a smile, gets into his Cadillac with

his half-a-million bucks and drives away.

INT. SAM'S HOFFIN BRAUS - DAY

Ordell sits at the bar in Sam's drinking a screwdriver

and watching a stripper strip.

The bartender hands him the phone.

Ordell takes the receiver.

INT. TOYOTA (MOVING) - DAY

A stressed Louis drives the Toyota, calling Ordell on

Ordell's tiny cellular.

Louis hears the phone disconnect.

EXT. SAM'S HOFFIN BRAUR - DAY

The Toyota pulls up to the back of the bar. Ordell hops

in, the car takes off.

INT. TOYOTA (MOVING) - DAY

Oredell in the passenger seat, bends over to the

backseat, grabs the shopping bag, and brings it to his

lap. He looks like a kid at Christmas.

Ordell just looks at him.

Ordell still doesn't say anything... then says;

Ordell shrugs it off, and digs into the shopping bag. He

pulls out the towels and sees forty-thousand dollars on

top of a bunch of paperbacks. His stomach drops. He just

looks inside the bag for the longest time.

Louis drives, oblivious to Ordell's dilemma.

Louis looks at Ordell;

Louis pulls it over, and stops on Ninth.

Ordell opens the glove box and takes out the Beretta. He

smells the end of the barrel. He releases the magazine.

Ordell looks at him. Louis didn't burn him.

CLOSEUP ORDELL

He thinks.

CLOSEUP JACKIE

Holding a bunch of money, looking into the camera, and

saying with a smile;

CLOSEUP ORDELL

Jackie's gonna die. He slaps the magazine back into the

Beretta.

It gets real quiet in the car, as Louis remembers

something.

Ordell has to look away from Louis, takes a beat, then

looks back.

Louis gets mad.

Louis turns into the hard convict on the yard, and tells

Ordell;

We hear a BAM.

Louis jerks.

Ordell shot him.

Louis falls back against the car door, eyes wide open,

staring at Ordell.

Ordell takes the pistol, works the barrel up higher on

Louis' side, right under him arm, and shoots him again.

This time Louis' head BANGS against the car door window.

He slumps over - his life gone.

Ordell looks at him.

Ordell takes the bag and gets out of the car, leaving

Louis' dead body there.

MEDIUM NICOLET

INT. NICOLET'S OFFICE (A.T.F. HEADQUARTERS) - DAY

Jackie, still dressed in her cool black suit, sits in a

chair in Nicolet's office. Davidoff between the fingers

of one hand, she holds a small, white styrofoam cup of

coffee in he other.

Ray stands.

Nicolet looks at Jackie for a moment.

A YOUNG WOMAN A.T.F SURVEILLANCE AGENT

Pretends to shop. She watches Louis grab Melanie.

BACK TO OFFICE

Dargus comes to the doorway...

They both leave, leaving Jackie all by herself in the

room, smoking.

They both come back in.

Nicolet continues, Dargus takes a seat in the corner

saying nothing.

Jackie listens.

CLOSEUP ORDELL

On the phone.

INT. FILTHY APARTMENT - DAY

Ordell turn to a glassy-eyed black female junkie nodding

on the couch named RAYNELLE. The filthy apartment we're

in belongs to her.

He dials another number.

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

Winston behind his desk, on the phone.

A YOUNG BLACK COMEDIAN ON TV

Def Comedy Jam plays on TV, a black comedian does a nasty

stand-up routine.

INT. FILTHY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Ordell and Raynelle sit on the couch watching Def Comedy

Jam; neither one is laughing. Raynelle's too stoned.

Ordell's too tense. The phone rings, he jumps on it

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT

Max on the other end behind his desk. Winston sitting on

the edge of the desk listening.

Ordell's up and off the couch pacing.

Ordell doesn't say anything.

Ordell doesn't say anything.

Ordell hangs up. Back in control. He looks to the TV. One

of the COMEDIANS cracks a joke. Ordell laughs.

Max looks at Winston.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

A low-rent motel. We hear a phone ring inside one of the

rooms.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Jackie lies on a hotel bed, wearing a long t-shirt and

panties, watching TV that's chained to the wall.

She answers the phone.

INT. MAX'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Max on the phone in his office, alone.

This gets her attention. She picks up the remote to the

TV set and zaps the sound.

Jackie gets off the bed.

Jackie lights up a Davidoff.

Phone in one hand, smoke in the other, Jackie begins

pacing back and forth.

Jackie takes a drag.

EXT. FILTHY APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max at the front door or Raynelle's apartment. He pounds

on the door.

Ordell throws open the door.

He looks past Max.

Max enters, Ordell slams the door.

As Ordell turns away from the door, Maxis reaching into

his coat. Ordell brings his Beretta up at Max.

Max freezes, his hand in his coat pocket.

He takes his hand out, it's holding stack of bills

wrapped in a rubber band. He tosses it to Ordell, who

catches it with his free hand.

Max does this, Ordell pats him down.

Max does.

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT

Jackie on the phone with Ordell, sitting behind Max's

desk.

She hangs up the phone. Then starts dialing again...

INT. RAY NICOLET'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A STEDICAM glides through the apartment, it falls on a

beeper "beeping", a gun, a wallet and car keys on a

dresser drawer... it leaves that and lands on a TV

screen: Tom Snyder is interviewing a guest on his show

... it leaves that and falls on two empty and one quarter-

filled beer bottles... it leaves that and falls on a

sleeping Ray Nicolet passed out in his reclining chair.

The sound of Tom Snyder and the faint beeping are heard

offscreen.

EXT. FILTHY APARTMENT - NIGHT

They leave the apartment walking to Max's car.

Max hands him the keys. They climb in.

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT

Jackie sitting behind the desk. She opens the drawer to

her right, Max's .38 sits there. She closes the drawer.

INT. CADILLAC (MOVING) - NIGHT

Ordell behind the wheel, Max the passenger. Ordell plays

the radio, he likes the song and turns it up.

BACK TO JACKIE

Sitting alone in the office, she gets up and turns off

the lights. The office goes dark. No music.

BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX

The song plays LOUD. Ordell moves his head to the music

slightly. Mak sits silently in the passenger seat,

sneaking a look at Ordell every once in a while.

BACK TO JACKIE

Sitting behind Max's desk in the dark. She takes out her

Davidoffs and lights one up with her Bic. Her face is

illuminated for a moment - then it's out. She exhales a

drag. No music.

BACK TO ORDELL

CLOSEUP ORDELL

His face is ice, the music is LOUD.

BACK TO JACKIE

CLOSEUP JACKIE

She's cool as a breeze, smoking her brand. No music.

BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX

Music is LOUD. Ordell's driving. Max says;

BACK TO JACKIE

Sitting behind Max's desk. Headlights shine in the

window. She is lit by them. She puts out her Davidoff and

sits back in the chair. The light source cuts off.

BACK TO ORDELL AND MAX

Sitting in the parked Cadillac. Ordell has just turned

off the lights and turns to Max, Beretta in hand.

EXT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - NIGHT

They both get out of the Cadillac. Ordell sticks his gun

in his pants.

Max steps in front of him, puts his keys in the lock and

opens the door.

Max does.

Max sees; Jackie sitting at his desk in the dark.

Ordell sees this, too and moves past Max.

Max sees; Ordell moves past him... then he sees the

bathroom door on the left side of the desk open, throwing

light into the room, onto Jackie and the figure who steps

out of the bathroom... Mark Dargus.

Max sees; Ordell looks to Dargus, then back to Jackie.

Then Jackie says;

Max sees; Ordell almost jumps, his arm goes to the

Beretta in his pants...

... just as Dargus raises his gun and SHOOTS him three

times in the chest...

... Ordell drops o the ground like a sack of potatoes, he

lands at Max's feet.

Max looks down and sees Ordell's head by his shoes, look

of panic still on his face, dead as fried chicken.

Max sees Dargus come over, bending on one nee next to

Ordell's body.

Max looks over at Jackie, still behind the desk. She

looks eyes with Max for a moment, then stands and walks

over to the body.

Then Max sees ONE SHERIFF DEPUTY step out of the dark

holding a shogun ... then another... then Winston step

out of the bathroom.

Dargus looks up at Max;

Max still shaken;

Dargus reaches in and pulls out the envelope containing

the forty-thousand marked dollars.

Max looks at Jackie.

She looks down at the dead Ordell with no expression,

just light up another Davidoff.

Dargus looks up at Max;

Dargus looks down at he man he just killed.

Dargus looks up and nods his head.

She takes a drag on her Davidoff.

INT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

As opposed to the last scene late at night, it's early

morning. Max sits at his desk, filling out a report.

A SUB-TITLE APPEARS BELOW:

"TEN DAYS LATER"

Max hears someone go;

Max looks up and sees Jackie Brown, standing in the

doorway. She smiles at him.

MAX FLASHES ON Jackie behind the desk.

Dargus shoots Ordell, Ordell drops.

BACK TO OFFICE

Max smiles back.

Jackie walks toward him.

She sits in the chair in front of his desk.

Pause between them.

Max hesitates.

He smiles and gets up from the desk.

As she stands, Jackie says;

EXT. CHERRY BAIL BONDS - DAY

They walk outside and Max sees Ordell's black Mercedes

convertible.

She walks around to the other side of the car, and looks

at him across the black Mercedes.

He shakes his head 'no.'

Jackie smiles.

He shakes his head 'no.'

Max doesn't say anything.

Max smiles and holds up two fingers, close to each other.

Jackie smiles back.

Max does.

They give each other a long, tender kiss.

She breaks it.

THE END

