INT. LEECH LAKE WOMEN'S CORRECTIONAL HOSPITAL - DAY

ANITA "NEEDY" LESNICKI, 17, sits on her hospital bed in

pajamas. She's a plain-faced girl with a haunted

expression. As she stares out the window, she winds

colored yarn around a pair of Popsicle sticks to create a

"god's eye."

Out a single window, we see an imposing nine-foot

SECURITY FENCE.

Next to Needy, we see a pile of unopened mail scattered

casually on the floor. There are letters, packages, even

creepy little gifts and totems sent by admiring "fans."

RAYMUNDO, a counselor raps on the door and sticks his

head in cautiously.

Needy stands up and begins changing into an institutional

gym uniform. As she slips off her pajamas, we can see a

series of puffy, slash-like SCARS on her body.

She glances sadly at a PHOTO OF A BOY on her dresser. She

touches the frame wistfully, her eyes full of remorse.

CONTINUED:

We see a morbid "hall of fame" of creepy photos sent in

from guys. They line the mirror, grinning at us. There's

even a DICK SHOT tucked in there.

Needy pulls on her threadbare uniform T-shirt. It hangs

down to her knees, covering her shorts.

Needy picks up a paper cup of COLORFUL PILLS on her

dresser, dumps the meds into her mouth, and dry-swallows

them.

She saunters out of the room in her GYM UNIFORM and BUNNY

SLIPPERS.

INT. LEECH LAKE HOSPITAL GYMNASIUM - MORNING

Several badminton courts are set up in the gym. As an

intense OPERATIC ARIA plays over the public address

system, the FEMALE PATIENTS enthusiastically--almost

violently--whack at the flying shuttlecocks.

The patients appear to be varying levels of crazy. A

TOOTHLESS WOMAN grins as she dives with her racket,

clipping her partner in the leg. In the corner, one

forlorn patient nurses her injured arm while another

hurls her racket against the wall again and again.

Counselors look on approvingly, despite how miserable

their charges appear. In the background, a few sulking

patients jump rope.

Needy enters the gym unnoticed, padding along in her

bunny slippers.

CONTINUED:

We see a GIRL swinging a jump rope who has a ladder of

fresh bandages on her arms and legs.

Nelly shuffles over to a tetherball and takes a furious

WHACK at it.

INT. LEECH LAKE CAFETERIA - ONE HOUR LATER

The freshly showered PATIENTS assemble for breakfast.

They grab trays and settle into noisy cliques. Needy

selects a single toaster pastry from the breakfast line

and sits down, alone.

We briefly cut to Needy's chart, on some doctor's

clipboard. We see her name: ANITA "NEEDY" LESNICKI and a

few brief details about FIRST DEGREE MURDER and GRANDIOSE

NOTIONS. Beneath that, we see a triple-highlighted

warning in bright ink: KICKER.

A NUTRITIONIST with a clipboard approaches Needy casually

and eyes her breakfast plate.

CONTINUED:

Needy scrambles to her feet and delivers a sudden,

powerful ROUNDHOUSE KICK to the nutritionist's face.

The nutritionist is KNOCKED OFF HER FEET-- as if she's

been kicked by a far mightier creature than Needy-- and

collapses, clutching her bleeding nose. We see that the

bone has SNAPPED.

The patients shriek. Chaos. As Needy is restrained by

staff members, she thrashes like a trapped fish.

Needy snorts up a killer LOOGIE and hocks it at the prone

nutritionist. The glob nails her in the eye.

It takes four STAFF MEMBERS to haul Needy away as she

hollers in protest.

The nutritionist curls up on the floor, cupping her

bleeding nose as a ring of curious patients surrounds

her. She spits out a TOOTH.

INT. "THE HOLE" - SAME

Needy is tossed into seclusion. Her hair is wild and her

face is wet with tears. The heavy door slams behind her,

leaving only a shaft of light.

Needy cringes as she briefly hallucinates abstract SHAPES

in the darkness. Grinning skulls. Faces drained of life,

half eaten. Grimaces of terror.

Suddenly, soft music   is piped into "the hole," ostensibly

to calm the patients   in solitary. Needy shudders and

recoils at the sound   of it. It's a CHEESY ROCK BALLAD

that we'll soon hear   again...

CONTINUED:

Needy plugs her ears as if it physically hurts her to

listen to the song. She curls up in the corner and steels

herself for solitary confinement.

TITLE: TWO MONTHS EARLIER

EXT. DEVIL'S KETTLE, MN - NIGHT (TO ESTABLISH)

Devil's Kettle is a quiet farming community, surrounded

by dense woods and mirrored lakes. It's the kind of town

that has one high school, one pizza joint, and one

stoplight.

On an overgrown rural route we see a rustic sign that

reads "WELCOME TO DEVIL'S KETTLE- Pop. 7,036. Come See

What's Cookin'!"

EXT. THE FALLS - NIGHT (TO ESTABLISH)

We see the titular falls, surprisingly powerful, gushing

over a rock face.

CONTINUED:

EXT. JENNIFER'S HOUSE (TO ESTABLISH) - MIDNIGHT

The sprawling ranch house is dark from the outside except

for a single FIRST FLOOR WINDOW-- Jennifer's-- still

illuminated.

There's a chicken coop and a wire livestock pen in the

backyard. We're definitely in deep north country.

INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM - SAME

JENNIFER CHECK lies on her bed, fidgeting as she watches

TV. She's a girl of 16 with LONG, MATTED HAIR and a thin,

frail body. Her features are gorgeous, but she looks sick

and haggard. She picks at her skin with yellowed,

Nosferatu-like fingernails and chews idly on a limp lock

of hair.

Jennifer wears a tight T-shirt that says KETTLE HIGH

FLAGS and underwear.

An `80s HORROR MOVIE flickers on the TV. Jennifer half-

watches, distracted.

Some recent photos on a corkboard reveal that Jennifer

was indeed BEAUTIFUL AND CURVY.

Jennifer rolls over and glances at the window briefly.

We see the OUTSIDE of the house again. It's dark and

silent, but for the nearly inaudible snapping of twigs.

CONTINUED:

Jennifer turns her attention back to the TV.

Suddenly, we see NEEDY'S FACE pop up against the window,

white and startling. Before Jennifer notices, the face

disappears.

Outside the house, the bushes rustle. Needy is crouched

below the window. We hear the pulsing of her HEART as if

via ultrasound. It's a wet, rhythmic sound: Sploish,

sploish, sploish.

Inside, Jennifer stretches and shuts off the TV. She

turns out the light. A beat of silence.

Then, the sound of cracking near the window.

Needy PLUNGES through the window, screaming and

brandishing a HAMMER. She takes a SWING at Jennifer's

head, but misses and BURIES IT IN THE WALL, specifically

in Jennifer's Fall Out Boy poster.

Needy throws herself on top of Jennifer. She STRADDLES

Jennifer and grips her throat, throttling her.

Jennifer struggles to fight off Needy in the darkness.

Her clawlike fingernails rake Needy's back and arms.

Needy pulls a BOX CUTTER out of her waistband and flicks

it open like a switchblade. Kshink!

She takes a swipe at Jennifer's CROTCH. Jennifer

instinctively CLUTCHES herself and rears up in defense.

We see Jennifer's mouth come down on Needy's neck. Needy

shrieks as if BITTEN, but continues to strangle Jennifer,

straddling her and bearing down.

CONTINUED: (2)

Jennifer's T-shirt slides up to her armpits, exposing her

breasts. For a moment, her eyes meet Needy's and she

grins. It's as if she has control over Needy for a split

second, sexual control...

Needy recoils and SLASHES Jennifer's body left and right

with the box-cutter, marking a gory, oozing "X" on her

torso.

Jennifer gasps, staring at her wounds in shock and

disbelief. She looks back up at Needy. A beat of silence.

Suddenly, THE GIRLS' BODIES LEVITATE RAPIDLY TOWARD THE

CEILING. They wrestle in a bloody, screaming airborne

heap, their figures entwined. Their bodies FALL,

collapsing back onto the bed with a thud.

Needy raises the box-cutter and plunges it into

Jennifer's HEART. Blood GEYSERS from the wound.

Suddenly, the room is flooded with BRIGHT LIGHT,

revealing a Needy straddling Jennifer's MUTLIATED BODY.

Jennifer's breathing is a raspy death rattle.

MRS. CHECK, a middle-aged woman in bad sleepwear and a

worse perm rushes into the bedroom.

She pulls Needy off her daughter. Jennifer rolls over,

gasping and bleeding.

Needy drops the boxcutter. It lands on Jennifer's copy of

Flag Team Quarterly, splashing the model with fresh gore.

CONTINUED: (3)

Mrs. Check cradles her maimed daughter on the floor like

a white-trash Pieta. Jennifer takes one last breath,

vomits blood, and DIES.

Mrs. Check SCREAMS. Needy SMILES.

EXT. JENNIFER CHECK'S HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Three police cars squeal up to the curb with sirens and

lights engaged. OFFICER ROMAN DUDA, 22, a muscular young

COP, jogs authoritatively toward the house. He shakes his

head, dumbfounded.

INT. POLICE SQUAD CAR - DAWN

Needy, innocent-looking in PIGTAILS, is hustled into the

back of the squad car. Her clothes and face are smeared

with blood.

Officer Duda starts the ignition. His partner, a hard-

faced FEMALE COP, slides into the front seat. Her cap is

pushed back to accommodate a huge round pouf of

shellacked MALL BANGS.

The female cop fidgets uncomfortably.

CONTINUED:

The cop reaches into the backseat and SLAPS Needy, who

hiccups with laughter.

Roman swallows nervously, eyes on the road. Officer

Warzak glances at him.

She slumps down in the backseat.

CONTINUED: (2)

She giggles maniacally.

Roman turns on the radio, violating protocol. It's a

soaring rock anthem-- the SAME SONG we heard being piped

into solitary confinement.

Both cops BRIGHTEN when they hear the song.

Roman cranks the volume.

Roman and the female cop begin to sing along with the

uplifting, corny song:

Needy stares out the window at the sun creeping up over

the forest on the horizon.

CONTINUED: (3)

We see a brief montage of black-and-white yearbook

stills: JENNIFER executing the splits on a football

field, her smile bright. NEEDY inspecting a school

newspaper layout, pen in hand, glasses on her nose. And

finally, CHIP DOVE, playing a strap-on snare drum at a

school pep rally, his head bent in concentration....

The photo fades into the pep rally itself. CHIP is

animated, drumming in full color...

INT. KETTLE HIGH - DAY

CHIP drums on the sidelines of the Devil's Kettle High

basketball court. The stands are packed with BORED

STUDENTS for a pep rally. Chip is 16, clean cut, and an

awful drummer.

Sure enough, the band is playing "Land of a Thousand

Dances." Nearby, the FLAG TEAM claps with gloved hands,

picking up their flags for a choreographed stunt.

Jennifer steps forward in her flag team uniform,

breathtakingly beautiful. She hoists her flag aloft,

twirling it. Time FREEZES as the flag unfurls.

Jennifer finishes her maneuver and WAVES to the stands.

Needy waves back at her excitedly from the bleachers,

small and owlish with glasses and lank hair.

CONTINUED:

CHASTITY, a similarly geeky-looking girl standing next to

Needy, rolls her eyes at this display of affection.

The geeky girl mockingly imitates Needy's excited wave.

Needy ignores her.

INT. KETTLE HIGH HALLWAY - AFTER SCHOOL

Needy digs through her locker, carefully selecting

textbooks to take home. Jennifer skips up to her,

smiling.

She checks herself out in Needy's locker mirror.

CONTINUED:

Needy continues loading her backpack.

Jennifer pouts. With an outstretched finger, she draws a

dramatic X in the air over Needy and boos loudly.

Needy blushes, shrinking self-consciously. She obviously

hates to displease Jennifer.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE - 8:45 A.M.

Needy is standing in a small, dingy bathroom, trying on

different configurations of clothing.

Needy wiggles her jeans a bit lower, exposing her

childishly round tummy. She walks out of the bathroom

into her bedroom, a frilly pink hell complete with canopy

bed.

CHIP DOVE is sitting on the bed, looking lost in all that

pink. He raises an eyebrow at Needy's abdomen.

Needy sighs and hoists up her pants.

CONTINUED:

Needy and CHIP start MAKING OUT. CHIP unbuckles his belt

eagerly even though they've barely begun. Needy stops.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy shrugs. A beat of silence. Then we hear the door

swing open. JENNIFER'S VOICE floats up from downstairs.

Needy pulls her NECKLACE out from beneath her shirt and

flashes a heart-shaped "B.F.F." charm at Chip.

CHIP sighs, resigned. They head downstairs.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (LIVING ROOM) - SAME

Jennifer is waiting in the front hallway. She's heavily

made-up and dressed in a predictably sexy outfit. She

dangles a set of car keys in front of Needy and CHIP.

CONTINUED:

She does a sexy little dance in the doorway, then notices

CHIP.

She grabs her boobs and thrusts her chest outward at him,

giggling. Needy watches jealously and MANEUVERS HER WAY

IN FRONT OF JENNIFER.

Jennifer sniffs the air.

She shoves Jennifer and they begin wrestling playfully.

CHIP slumps against the wall, staring awestruck at

Jennifer's cleavage.

The three of them shuffle onto the porch. Needy locks the

door.

CONTINUED: (2)

The girls scamper toward the car.

INT. THE CAROUSEL - NIGHT

THE CAROUSEL is a run-down tavern at the edge of town,

the kind with NASCAR posters, wobbly chairs and strands

of plastic pennants crisscrossing the ceiling. It's a

busy night and the bar is teeming with locals.

A bartender sells a CASE OF BEER to a customer and passes

it over the bar.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

We see a lone, nasty-looking TOILET covered in BAND

STICKERS.

BACK ON NEEDY:

Needy and Jennifer enter the bar. Every guy in the joint

stares at Jennifer, who snaps her "MINOR" wristband

distastefully.

CONTINUED:

A teenage guy, CRAIG, passes by and waves.

She elbows Needy and makes a GAGGING GESTURE.

Jennifer pulls out a pack of Camel Wides and lights one

awkwardly. Needy notices AHMET FROM INDIA, a FOREIGN

EXCHANGE STUDENT, standing by himself away from the

crowd.

ROMAN DUDA saunters up to Jennifer, swigging a bottle of

beer. He snatches the pack of cigarettes away from her.

CONTINUED: (2)

She sticks the fat cigarette between her lips and inhales

pointedly.

He grips her wrist and twists it behind her back.

She paws Roman's crotch discreetly. Needy winces.

A group of skinny INDIE ROCK BOYS are setting up their

equipment on a pathetically tiny stage-- it's more like a

dais. The LEAD SINGER has intense, spooky eyes, nearly

obscured by a shock of hair. The locals, mostly good ol'

boys, eye the band suspiciously.

Needy nods dumbly. She stares at the band, awestruck.

CONTINUED: (3)

She gazes at the stage, hearing only the whistling rush

of ARCTIC AIR. In SLOW MOTION, the GUITARIST unsheathes

his Fender Jaguar from its gig bag. He notices her

staring and runs the tip of his tongue over his lips.

Needy swallows hard.

She grabs Needy's hand and enthusiastically tries to drag

her toward the stage.

She plants her hands on Needy's CHEST.

Needy shrugs free of Jennifer's grasp and follows her

reluctantly across the room.

The lead singer of Soft Shoulder, NIKOLAI WOLF, is

already striding forward to meet them at the lip of the

stage. His gait is as smooth as his shock of dyed-black

hair.

He reaches down and pumps Jennifer's outstretched hand.

CONTINUED: (4)

Needy looks at the floor, embarrassed.

Jennifer's voice scales up nervously.

Jennifer hurries off toward the bar.

Needy moves self-consciously into a nearby corner, not

wanting to continue the conversation with Nikolai alone.

A LOCAL plugs a Loretta Lynn tune into the jukebox, with

a challenging stare at the band. A DRUNK COUPLE begins

two-stepping in front of the stage.

Nikolai walks up to the guitar player, DIRK, and pulls

him aside. Needy pricks up her ears and listens.

CONTINUED: (5)

Needy looks offended.

Dirk hesitates.

Nikolai is already ignoring him.

Needy, alarmed, emerges from her hiding place and

discreetly rushes over to the bar where Jennifer is

arguing with a jealous-looking Roman. He shakes his head

in disgust and leaves the bar.

Jennifer walks over holding an ostentatious PATRIOTIC

THEMED DRINK. She laughs when she sees Needy's concerned

expression.

CONTINUED: (6)

Piercing FEEDBACK signals the beginning of the set.

Nikolai takes the mic and smiles broadly.

Someone in the back shouts "Devil's Kettle!"

He WINKS at Jennifer.

The band launch into the same intense, soaring song we

heard in the COP CAR and the HOLE. Jennifer's eyes never

leave Nikolai's. She's hypnotized, clinging to Needy's

arm. Even the locals look charmed.

Suddenly, a lick of FLAME appears on the wood paneling

next to the stage. Needy is the first to notice. As she

watches in horror, the fire is reflected in her glasses.

CONTINUED: (7)

The flames quickly climbs up to the ceiling and begin to

blaze uncontrollably. People SCREAM and scatter. Someone

ineffectually tries to throw a pitcher of beer on the

fire.

Nikolai turns and sees the fire spreading. He and Chas

exchange glances. The BASS PLAYER pitches his guitar

aside and jumps off the stage, and the drummer abandons

his kit. Nikolai seems perfectly cool and composed as he

watches from the stage...is he smiling?

CHAOS. Everyone is trying to get out of the bar at once,

causing a stampede. A woman's clothes and hair CATCH FIRE

and she falls to her knees. We see a BEAM fall from the

roof, nearly killing AHMET FROM INDIA.

Jennifer stands still in a dreamlike state.

Needy grabs Jennifer by the elbow and pulls her into the

tiny BATHROOM. Choking on smoke, they climb onto the

Sticker Toilet (which now sports a giant SOFT SHOULDER

sticker on the tank) and boost each other out the

BATHROOM WINDOW. Hundreds are still trapped inside,

screaming.

EXT. THE CAROUSEL- CONTINUOUS

Jennifer collapses in Needy's arms, coughing. Needy hugs

her fiercely, almost romantically. She cups Jennifer's

flushed face and looks into her eyes.

Suddenly, a HAND clamps onto Jennifer's shoulder. Both

girls jump. It's Nikolai, his forehead creased with false

concern.

CONTINUED:

Needy is less than thrilled to see him.

Needy narrows her eyes suspiciously.

Muffled SCREAMS rise up from the flame-engulfed building.

Jennifer covers her ears and cowers, sweat rolling down

her face.

She slumps against Nikolai's chest.

He smoothly retrieves a plastic bottle of PEACH SCHNAPPS

from his coat and holds it to Jennifer's lips. She swigs

it cooperatively, dribbling down her chin.

Needy blinks in disbelief at the coincidence.

CONTINUED: (2)

She defiantly follows Nikolai toward the WHITE VAN, which

is parked a suspiciously safe distance from the bar.

Needy staggers after them slowly, watching.

Behind Needy, the bar EXPLODES. Screams. Flames. Silence.

Needy doesn't even look back as she watches Jennifer get

into the van. Ash drifts into her hair like snowflakes.

Nikolai takes off his shirt as he enters the van,

revealing his slick, muscled white torso.

EXT. PETRIFIED FOREST NATIONAL PARK - (FLASHBACK)

We see LITTLE NEEDY, about five years old, staring up at

a petrified tree in the darkness, horrified yet

compelled. The tree seems to stoop forward, cracking...

BACK ON NEEDY:

Needy's face is fixed in the same haunted expression.

Nikolai turns to look at her, his teeth bared in a

vicious smile.

Needy turns and sprints off in the opposite direction,

away from the van and the fire.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM - 11:00 P.M.

Needy stumbles into her bedroom, overwhelmed. Her clothes

are smoke damaged and her cheeks are sooty.

She grabs her cheap, taped-up cell phone and dials CHIP's

number shakily.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Chip's bedroom is pitch black until a cheap cell phone

lights up under the covers illuminating his sleeping

form, clad only in jockey shorts.

CHIP sits bolt upright

CONTINUED:

The DOORBELL chimes.

Needy hangs up the phone and rushes downstairs. As she

passes through the shadowy kitchen, appliances HUM all

around her. The silence is menacing.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (FRONT ENTRY) - CONTINUOUS

Needy opens the door. Nobody there.

She slams the door, turns around and SCREAMS.

CONTINUED:

Jennifer is standing in the dark hallway, looking ghostly

pale and smiling. Her clothes are tattered and stained--

her entire front is soaked in blood. Her makeup is

smeared, and her eyes are bruised and sunken like a

zombie's. She looks HORRIFYING, especially with that

ghastly, clownish grin.

Jennifer says nothing and continues to smile with blood-

tinged teeth.

Utter silence. Then a dripping sound. Needy looks down

and sees large drops of blood spattering the linoleum.

Jennifer continues to smile, staring directly at Needy.

Jennifer lets out a horrifying banshee SCREAM, wailing at

the top of her lungs. She vomits a torrent of evil-

looking black bile all over herself and Needy and

staggers wildly down the hallway.

The bloody black bile hits the wall, splashing a framed

school portrait of Needy. Needy screams and watches in

horror as it slides down the wall.

The bile has hundred of tiny SPINES sticking out of it,

like little porcupine needles, and it appears to move by

itself, oozing across the linoleum, creeping into the

corners. It's truly revolting.

Needy grabs Jennifer blindly and claps a hand over her

mouth.

Jennifer falls to her knees, her screams turning to

jagged, insane laughter.

Needy tries to run, but Jennifer grabs her and THROWS her

against the wall with superhuman force, pinning her.

Jennifer slowly, tantalizingly brushes her face against

Needy's hair, her earlobe. Needy doesn't move a muscle.

Jennifer's hand slides up Needy's ribcage. She presses

her lips against Needy's carotid artery.

We hear Needy's blood pumping, swishing.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy nods.

Jennifer parts her lips. Then suddenly, she stops and

PULLS AWAY, pushing Needy to the floor. Jennifer bolts

out the front door and takes off running down the street.

Needy is motionless for a moment, then stumbles toward

the doorway.

But she's long gone.

INT. KETTLE HIGH - THE NEXT MORNING

Moments before the first morning bell. Needy is sitting

at her desk in English class, still visibly bruised from

her scuffle with Jennifer the night before. She looks

like she hasn't slept a wink.

The mood is quiet and somber-- kids whisper about the

fire and gather in groups.

Suddenly, a figure steps in front of Needy. It's

JENNIFER, looking absolutely gorgeous-- and remarkably

unscathed. She smiles brightly at Needy as if nothing

happened the night before.

CONTINUED:

She giggles and reaches for her knockoff designer purse.

Jennifer applies lip gloss and smacks her lips together.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy rubs her eyes, stunned.

She looks down at her hands. There's DRIED BLOOD under

her fingernails.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (FRONT ENTRY) - DAWN (FLASHBACK)

We see Needy on her hands and knees in the eerie blue

light of dawn, sobbing as she diligently scrubs blood and

bile off the floor with a dirty sponge. The black, spiny

vomit repulses her, and she gags.

She reaches for a Swiffer WetJet mop and pulls the

trigger. No solution comes out. She curses, hysterical

and sleep-deprived.

She collapses in tears on the floor.

BACK ON NEEDY- PRESENT DAY

Needy raises her hands desperately to Jennifer, spreading

her fingers to display her filthy fingernails.

CONTINUED:

MR. WROBLEWSKI, a middle-aged teacher, enters the room.

He has a gnarly-looking robotic hand and moves awkwardly.

Mr. Wroblewski clears his throat. His voice quavers.

A single, stifled sob rises from the class. Needy glances

around the room and sees students fighting back tears. A

huge JOCK weeps openly, tears spattering his swimsuit-

model decorated notebook. Jennifer smirks, barely able to

contain her laughter.

He fights back tears.

Needy shushes her, appalled.

Mr. Wroblewski painstakingly retrieves a tissue from his

pocket with his robotic hand and dabs at his face.

Needy eyes Jennifer warily.

CONTINUED: (2)

The jock collapses in sobs. A tiny, acne-scarred GEEK

leans over and folds the jock into an unlikely hug.

INT. KETTLE HIGH HALLWAY - AFTER SCHOOL

The automated bell rings. Needy slings on her backpack

and hurries over to CHIP's locker. He's packing up a pair

of drum mallets.

CONTINUED:

She shudders at the memory

CHIP and Needy ponder the grotesque image in silence.

As they prepare to leave, COLIN GRAY approaches Needy.

He's a cute PUNK/GOTH guy wearing black nail polish, a

lip ring, and full wardrobe by Hot Topic.

CONTINUED: (2)

Chip blatantly scoots closer to Needy, eyeing Colin

suspiciously.

Colin walks away. Chip looks jealous.

We see a group of GOTH GIRLS splayed against their

lockers in full regalia. One wears an ACCORDION for no

reason.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH FOOTBALL FIELD - CONTINUOUS

JONAS KOZELLE, the JOCK we saw sobbing earlier, is

standing at the deserted football field.

CONTINUED:

It's a gray, overcast fall day and the wind whistles

eerily through the trees. The football is set back a good

a distance from the school, and Jonas is all alone.

In the distance, a tiny figure slowly approaches, It

starts a dot on the horizon. As it draws closer, we see

it's JENNIFER. Her bright, lipsticked grin is eerie and

unmistakable.

Jonas glances briefly over his right shoulder,

indifferent.

A few seconds later, he glances again. Strangely,

Jennifer ISN'T THERE.

Jennifer suddenly appears on Jonas's left side, startling

him.

Jennifer puts her arm around him sympathetically.

CONTINUED: (2)

Jonas's lip trembles as he unsuccessfully fights back

tears. Jennifer cuddles closer to him.

Jennifer reaches for Jonas's hand and slides it slowly up

her shirt, placing it on her left breast.

CONTINUED: (3)

Jonas nods dumbly, brainwashed. Jennifer leads him away

from the field, toward the WOODS bordering the school

campus. They vanish into the woods. In the distance, we

see the FALLS rushing into the lake.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET - CONTINUOUS

Needy and Chip are walking home from school, still deep

in discussion.

Chip takes Needy's hand and squeezes it.

INT. WOODS SURROUNDING SCHOOL - CONTINUOUS

Jennifer and Jonas are in the woods. Jennifer efficiently

whips off her top and bra and begins kissing Jonas

hungrily. As Jonas touches her, he recoils.

She pulls off Jonas' shirt and digs her nails into his

arms, kissing him with renewed ferocity.

The woods are dead silent. A few squirrels approach the

clearing, and Jonas watches them warily with one open eye

as Jennifer kisses him. Then a deer wanders into the

clearing. Then a fox. The animals pause in their tracks

and watch, motionless. It's an eerie, unnatural tableau.

Animals continue to gather.

Jennifer is annoyed.

He gestures to the ANIMALS, who are watching, still as

statues. A few crows alight on a nearby tree.

Jennifer unzips Jonas's jeans and smiles, reaching down

and working him with her hand. Jonas moans, still eyeing

the animals.

CONTINUED:

She smiles and shakes her head.

Jonas jerks back, creeped out. He tries to pull away from

Jennifer, but she's too strong. She PINS him to the tree.

We see her jaw begin to UNHINGE, like some horrible

snake. Her eyes cloud over with blood...

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - CONTINUOUS

A horrible SCREAM of agony rises from the woods. Mr.

Wroblewski is exiting the school, briefcase in hand. He

stops in his tracks when he hears the scream. He shakes

his head sadly.

Another scream, this time weaker.

He heads for his Ford Festiva, then pauses as if thinking

better of it. Something isn't right. He puts his keys

back in his pocket and walks toward the woods to

investigate.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Needy is preparing herself a fried bologna sandwich in

the kitchen. Needy's ALBINO FERRET chases a ball across

the cracked floor.

Needy scrapes the sandwich out of the skillet and takes a

bite.

CONTINUED:

She tuns on the kitchen radio and is surprised to hear a

very familiar song: "Through the Trees," by Soft

Shoulder.

Suddenly, she pauses, a look of UNEASE and even FEAR

crossing her face. She stops and braces herself against

the counter, her KNEES SHAKING. Something isn't right.

She drops the sandwich. Greedo goes straight for it.

As Needy sinks to her knees, she stares straight ahead at

the REFRIGERATOR. A photo magnet of JENNIFER leers back

at her.

She closes her eyes. A brief, near-subliminal FLASH of

the carnage in the woods...

The song ends, snapping Needy out of her reverie.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - SAME

Mr. Wroblewski ventures into the woods, heading toward

the clearing. At first, we can only hear mysterious

sounds-- scratching and smacking. Birds and animals are

closely gathered in a circle.

Suddenly, Mr. Wroblewski clutches his arm and gags,

realizing the animals are feeding on a huge CARCASS.

A BADGER looks up, its snout soaked in blood.

Mr. Wroblewski begins to scream. The animals scatter.

CONTINUED:

A glimpse of the CORPSE: It's Jonas, of course. His

entire torso has been torn open, exposing his ribs and

guts. Blood and viscera everywhere, INTESTINES strewn

about the forest floor like party streamers.

Mr. Wroblewski falls to his knees, hollering.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (KITCHEN) - CONTINUOUS

Needy is seated at the kitchen table. She accidentally

drops the remains of her sandwich on the floor, where the

ferret quickly pillages it.

Needy's mom, ANTONIA "TONI" LESNICKI, has quietly entered

the kitchen in her pajamas. She's pale and sweaty, as if

she's been spooked.

She crosses herself piously.

CONTINUED:

She watches the FERRET skitter across the kitchen floor.

Toni shakes her head and heads upstairs.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - EARLY EVENING

A hysterical SCREAM pierces the twilight.

The sun has begun to set. An ambulance and four police

cars have pulled up near the woods, which are cordoned

off with yellow police tape. Near the woods, JONAS'S

PARENTS are crying. His MOTHER screams and begins beating

the ground with her fists.

A stretcher is being loaded into the ambulance.

OFFICER WARZAK exits one of the police cruisers. Her

signature giant poofy bangs are in full effect.

She rushes to comfort Jonas's bereaved mother.

EXT. ACROSS THE LAKE - CONTINUOUS

The sound of Jonas's parents screaming carries across the

lake. The water is eerily calm.

Suddenly, a HEAD breaks the surface of the lake. It's

Jennifer, gliding through the water. She looks calm and

serene.

The SCREAMING continues across the lake. The sirens,

shouting and chaos contrast sharply with this peaceful

scene.

Jennifer paddles to the shore and hoists herself onto the

pier, naked and dripping wet. She runs her tongue over

her teeth briefly and nonchalantly picks something out

from between her two front teeth, like she's just

finished a delicious rib dinner.

Jennifer wrings out her sopping hair and reaches for her

clothes, which are neatly folded on the pier.

CONTINUED:

Once she's dressed, she walks off into the woods, as if

nothing out of the ordinary has happened.

INT. NEEDY'S ROOM - EVENING

Needy is sitting at her lamp-lit desk, reading an old

E.C. horror comic and eating a banana.

The phone rings. Needy picks it up.

INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Jennifer's hair is still wet from the lake, but she's

changed into shorts and a tank top. Music blasts from her

stereo. She admires herself in the mirror, popping her

ass.

She picks up a Soft Shoulder button and POKES her arm

hard with the pin without flinching. Blood spurts from

the wound.

Jennifer gazes at her arm, transfixed. She wipes the

blood away-- the wound has magically DISAPPEARED.

CONTINUED:

She flicks a Zippo lighter and touches the FLAME to her

tongue-- first tentatively, then confidently.

Jennifer giggles maniacally and sighs with happiness.

Needy's call-waiting beeps.

She casually lights her HAIR on fire. The flames leap up,

then die down, leaving her entirely untouched.

She draws a mini-X in the air.

Needy clicks over. It's CHIP. We get a nice trifold pie-

chart illustrating the intersecting calls. CHIP is

panicked and sweaty in his living room. In the

background, Chip's little sister CAMILLE bangs on a

piano. Red police lights flash outside the picture

window.

CONTINUED: (2)

Back on JENNIFER:

Jennifer is impatiently dragging a razor down her arm.

Blood drips onto the rug. She smiles, in awe of herself.

Needy clicks back over.

CONTINUED: (3)

Needy hangs up the phone abruptly and grabs one of her

many cardigan sweaters, heading for the door.

EXT. MC CULLUM PARK - FOURTEEN MINUTES LATER

The park is dark and tree-lined and appears to be a

popular clandestine meeting spot for the youth of Devil's

Kettle. The abandoned sand volleyball pits are full of

couples making out. Needy runs past them skittishly.

As she ascends a grassy hill, CHIP is revealed,

silhouetted against a backdrop of twirling police lights.

Needy squints at the lights, sees CHIP's house in the

distance.

His voice cracks. We see a brief, terrifying FLASH of

Jonas's mutilated body and pain-stricken face.

Needy doesn't want to believe it.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

She's shaking now, too. Chip leans forward and kisses

her. She closes her eyes.

In the chaste space between CHIP and Needy's bodies, the

volleyball-pit couple fuck like rabbits.

A SERIES OF NEWSPAPER HEADLINES

The familiar Soft Shoulder ballad plays as we see a

dreamy montage of headlines.

The headline of the Devil's Kettle Sun-Post simply reads:

"WHY?"

The headline of the Minneapolis Star Tribune reads:

"'BUTCHERED': Devil's Kettle youth brutally murdered in

wake of devastating fire."

A smaller headline on the front page of the New York

Times reads: "Minnesota town rocked by grisly murder,

blaze."

We see Devil's Kettle citizens holding a tearful

candlelight vigil by the former Carousel site. They

softly sing along with the Soft Shoulder song.

CONTINUED:

We see weeping students shoving flowers through the slats

of Jonas' abandoned locker. The hallway floor is covered

with teddy bears and bouquets.

We see the PASSING OF TIME as the bouquets wilt and the

blooms droop.

The pile of discarded scratch-off tickets next to Needy's

mother's bed grows steadily as the days go by.

Another Star Tribune headline. This one reads: "Two weeks

later, cannibal killer still at large." A smaller subhead

reads "ARTS: Local band Soft Shoulder sign to major."

We see Jennifer cheerfully skipping down the school

hallway in a sleazy Technicolor outfit. The rest of the

kids look grey, ashen and depressed, but Jennifer pops

like a Roman candle.

We see clusters of cautiously optimistic kids in the

school courtyard. They smile, then laugh, as if they're

re-learning how to be happy.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - TO ESTABLISH

It's late September. Leaves are beginning to drift off

trees. The surrounding woods are still blocked off with

yellow police tape.

INT. KETTLE HIGH - MORNING

Mr. Wroblewski stands solemnly in front of the class, his

mechanical hand tensing and releasing nervously.

Needy and the rest of the class fidget.

CONTINUED:

We see Jennifer. She looks haggard, thin, and cranky.

Needy smooths her own hair self-consciously.

Mr. Wroblewski clears his throat, annoyed by their

talking.

A ripple of excitement in the room. A girl seated in the

front row is wearing a Soft Shoulder T-SHIRT.

CONTINUED: (2)

The class is happily abuzz-- except Needy, who looks

appalled.

She looks around for support, finding none.

CHASTITY, the girl in the Soft Shoulder T-shirt, turns to

face Needy angrily.

CONTINUED: (3)

The BELL rings. Students get up and gather their books

for the next period.

INT. SCHOOL HALLWAY - SAME

Needy and Jennifer slowly head toward their respective

lockers.

COLIN GRAY, the punk/goth boy we met earlier, approaches

Jennifer nervously as she exits the classroom.

Needy drops behind them, eavesdropping.

CONTINUED:

Colin fidgets awkwardly.

He turns to walk down the hallway, dejected. Jennifer

watches him leave.

Colin turns around.

CONTINUED: (2)

Colin walks away, grinning triumphantly.

Chip appears behind Needy and drapes his arm over her

shoulder. Needy jumps, startled.

Needy puts her arm around Chip protectively.

Jennifer walks away.

Chip looks relieved.

CONTINUED: (3)

Needy waves as Chip walks away.

EXT. CAMERFORD STREET - NIGHT

Colin Gray drives down the street in a big old boat of a

classic car. He's blasting punk music on an iPod that's

been rigged to the ancient AM radio.

Colin holds up his CELL PHONE to re-read the directions

Jennifer texted him.

The street is extremely dark and silent, occupied only by

a new townhouse development. The identical units still

appear to be under construction. There aren't even any

streetlights. The plastic sheeting over the windows flaps

eerily in the breeze.

Colin's brow furrows in confusion-- it doesn't even look

like anyone lives here yet. He checks the phone display

again.

CLOSE ON PHONE:

The TEXT MESSAGE reads:

"trn lft on camerford and your there. first house on rt.

1004 camerford. C-ya! xoxo jen"

Sure enough, the house number is 1004. Colin throws the

car into park and walks up to the porch. He looks up and

notices a glow coming from an upstairs window,

CONTINUED:

Colin presses the doorbell. Nothing happens-- the house

isn't wired for electricity yet.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - SAME

Needy and CHIP are kissing on Chip's water bed.

Chip fumbles for one of those "fragrance plug-ins" and

PLUGS it into the wall. Needy looks over.

INT. 1004 CAMERFORD - SAME

Colin enters the house tentatively. It's dark, vacant,

and very creepy. There's a very faint glow and soft music

coming from upstairs.

He stumbles over a stray 2 x 4. There are piles of

sawdust and building materials everywhere-- the house is

definitely still under construction. Colin looks

confused.

A MOUSE skitters over his sneakers.

The music upstairs grows slightly louder in response.

Colin squares his shoulders and heads slowly up the

creaking stairs.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - SAME

Needy has eased off her top to reveal an endearingly

plain white bra, complete with center bow. CHIP, also

shirtless, cops a feel.

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a fluorescent

orange CONDOM. Needy looks at the wrapper.

INT. 1004 CAMERFORD - CONTINUOUS

Colin follows the music into an empty bedroom. The dark

room is filled with blazing candles melting and pooling

into bizarre shapes. A single BLANKET is spread out on

the floor. Colin shivers.

Behind him, in the doorway, Jennifer appears, her smiling

face hellishly aglow.

Colin is totally dumbstruck.

CONTINUED:

She starts KISSING Colin on the neck. We can see

confusion-- and fear-- in his eyes.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - SAME

Chip fumbles below his waist, obviously struggling with

the condom. Needy leans forward for a closer look.

INT. 1004 CAMERFORD - SAME

Jennifer grips Colin's face in her hands and forcibly

kisses him on the mouth. Colin succumbs, but stiffly.

We hear a SCRATCHING noise. Colin pulls away

instinctively and sees MICE and ROACHES emerging from the

walls, skittering over surfaces.

Jennifer looks over her shoulder and giggles.

She unbuttons his jeans. They fall noisily to the floor--

they're the baggy Hot Topic kind with chains and buckles

galore.

Colin into Jennifer's eyes. There's something horrible

about her face...like she's become almost corpselike.

CONTINUED:

Colin tries to jerk away, but Jennifer easily disengages

his arm from its socket. A sickeningly moist SNAP. Colin

cries out in pain.

She slams him to the ground and mounts him. Her jaw

unhinges, opening her mouth to a horrifying, inhuman

degree. Her teeth are razor-sharp and grotesquely

crowded, like they belong to some horribly deformed dog.

She descends on him, feeding ravenously.

We see their shadows against the wall: Jennifer lunging

hungrily, blood spraying up from Colin's jugular. We can

hear him screaming and gargling on his own blood.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

CHIP is doggedly pumping away on top of Needy, his eyes

closed in concentration. Needy's vacant eyes are suddenly

brimming with tears.

CHIP opens his eyes.

Needy starts weeping.

Tears roll down Needy's cheeks. She begins moaning, then

SCREAMING at that top of her lungs.

She hallucinates liquid seeping through the walls, blood

and lymph oozing in at the corners and windows. Then the

infamous spiny black bile...

Pixelated nightmares emerge from the darkness. Skulls,

jesters, demons, death. It's the worst acid trip

imaginable.

Needy rubs her eyes frantically and continues to scream.

CONTINUED:

CHIP immediately rolls off Needy, concerned. He grabs her

and tries to shake some sense into her.

Needy continues to shriek hysterically, her voice growing

ragged.

INT. 1004 CAMERFORD - SAME

We can still hear Colin making inhuman sounds of pain. We

can only see the carnage in shadow, but it's clearly

unspeakable.

INT. CHIP'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Needy clutches her throat, hyperventilating. She stands

up and struggles to get dressed. Her breath rasps. Chip

is freaking out.

INT. 1004 CAMERFORD - SAME

Colin's thrashing limbs finally go limp. Jennifer is

hunched over his remains like a jackal scooping blood

into her mouth with cupped hands.

We see his eyes, flecked with blood, pupils dilated. A

white MOUSE crawls over his face.

INT. CHIP'S HOUSE - SAME

Needy races toward the door with Chip in pursuit.

CONTINUED:

She bolts out the room, leaving Chip naked and alone. He

pulls his knees up to his chest, vulnerable.

EXT. CHIP'S STREET - SAME

Needy runs toward her mom's CAR, a beat-up Kia parked on

the curb.

She climbs into the car and starts the ignition,

trembling and crying.

She pulls out onto the street and guns it. She swings a

hard left. The streets are all almost identical, lined by

working-class homes.

She turns on the radio. The song is, of course, "Through

the Trees" by Soft Shoulder. She pounds the dashboard,

hysterical.

Needy seizes the wheel drives recklessly down a dark,

tree-lined street. Then, she sees something bright emerge

from the shadows. Her eyes widen...

It's JENNIFER, creeping toward the curb like an animal.

She's pale in the moonlight. The entire lower half of her

face is covered in blood, like a ghoulish beard of gore.

She flashes a huge, deranged, toothy SMILE at Needy.

Needy screams and SWERVES. The car fishtails out of

control and slides into a ditch.

Needy slams her foot onto the accelerator, trying to get

out of the trench. She glances desperately out the side

window. Jennifer is gone.

Panting, Needy tries to accelerate again.

CONTINUED:

Suddenly, Jennifer appears from out of nowhere and SLAMS

her body against the windshield, her long limbs splayed

like an insect's. The windshield SHATTERS. Jennifer grins

at Needy through the cracking glass.

Needy screams again, puts the pedal to the floor, and

manages to rear up out of the ditch. Jennifer's body

tumbles off the car as Needy goes roaring down the

street.

EXT. NEEDY'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Needy throws the car into park and races up the front

walk. She unlocks the door, shaking and fumbling. She

bursts into the darkened house.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

No reply. Needy braces herself against the kitchen

counter and bawls. She falls to her knees and curls up on

the floor, exhausted.

Her eyes drift shut.

EXT. SUNNY SUBURBAN YARD - FLASHBACK - DAY

Little Needy and Little Jennifer are playing Barbies in a

sandbox. Needy holds a brand new, immaculate Barbie doll.

She tosses Needy a naked brunette doll with its hair

chopped off and an arm missing.

CONTINUED:

She puts her hand down in the sand emphatically and

suddenly HOWLS in pain.

Jennifer lifts her hand. There's a TACK stuck in her palm

and it's bleeding.

Needy grabs Jennifer's hand, pulls out the tack and wipes

away the blood. It's still bleeding. Panicking, she leans

forward and instinctively puts her mouth to the wound.

Jennifer watches quietly. Needy pulls away.

Needy nods.

INT. KITCHEN - (BACK TO REALITY)

Needy WAKES UP in a cold sweat, gasping. She's still on

the kitchen floor. She peels herself up off the floor,

disoriented.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (BEDROOM) - CONTINUOUS

Needy trudges into her dark bedroom. She strips off her

clothes and stumbles into bed.

Needy flicks on her bedside lamp, petrified. Jennifer is

curled up in bed beside her, reclining casually. She's

freshly showered and wearing one of Needy's dorky T-

shirts.

Needy screams at the top of her lungs and leaps out of

bed, pulling the covers with her.

She winks conspiratorially at Needy.

CONTINUED:

Needy nods, terrified.

INT. SOFT SHOULDER'S VAN (FLASHBACK) - NIGHT

Jennifer is crouched in the back of the van. None of the

band members are speaking. Nikolai Wolf drives down a

gravel road, away from the fire site and deep into the

woods.

Jennifer looks around the van, wide-eyed. There's glow-in-

the-dark Satanic imagery painted all over the walls:

goats heads, pentagrams, and strange coded writing. She

sees a few books sliding around on the floor: "Spells and

Incantations," "Summoning the Beast," and a copy of the

Black Mass.

Jennifer springs to her feet and tries to escape out the

side door. MICK, the drummer, grabs her ankles, taking

her down.

CONTINUED:

Jennifer struggles again, but Mick holds her down.

A GLINT OF HOPE in Jennifer's eyes. Maybe if she lies she

can save herself.

EXT. FOREST CLEARING (FLASHBACK) - NIGHT

The van rumbles down an uneven forest path, deep into the

woods. They arrive at the real Devil's Kettle-- roaring,

ominous waterfalls. There's a crude stone altar

illuminated by moonlight.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM (PRESENT DAY) - NIGHT

Needy is still cowering on her bedroom floor, captivated

by the tale in progress. Jennifer is reclining in the bed

with a relaxed, supernatural glow.

EXT. THE FALLS (FLASHBACK) - NIGHT

The door of the van slides open. Nikolai pulls Jennifer

out of the van and hustles her into the clearing. He

looks up into the sky.

The four band members surround Jennifer, looking

statuesque in their sexy rock n' roll ensembles.

Without warning, Nikolai hauls off and KICKS Jennifer.

She yelps and falls onto her back on the dirt.

Dirk looks apprehensive.

Dirk obediently heads over to the van. He pushes the

intimidating-looking magical books aside and retrieves a

single folded piece of computer paper.

He unfolds the piece of paper and clears his throat.

CONTINUED:

The guys have dragged Jennifer onto the makeshift altar

and are holding her down. She struggles and screams, but

Dirk slaps her again.

He tries to remember Jennifer's name and fails.

Dirk and Mick exchange nervous glances.

Nikolai examines her with an appraising eye.

He reaches into Jennifer's bra and casually pulls out a

GEL BREAST ENHANCER, tossing it aside.

Jennifer rears up and SPITS in his artfully rumpled hair.

Nikolai smooths his `do, enraged.

He wiggles his menacingly pointy fingers in her face.

CONTINUED: (2)

The group begins chanting jibberish in unison. Jennifer

struggles, watching as their eyes go hollow and black.

He unsheathes a huge, gleaming knife and raises it Psycho-

style, admiring his reflection in the blade.

Snickering, Nikolai begins to sing "Starman" by David

Bowie. The group joins in merrily.

CONTINUED: (3)

As the group sings, Nikolai brings the knife down with a

grin. We hear Jennifer SCREAMING, sounds of violence and

clothes ripping as Nikolai relentlessly beats her and

stabs her, his face contorting demonically. The band

continues to sing, their voices carrying over the trees.

Nikolai walks over to where the "devil side" of the falls

rushes into a black hole. He drops the murder weapon

into the churning water, smiling.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM (PRESENT DAY) - CONTINUOUS

Needy's expression is both incredulous and horrified.

Jennifer is totally matter-of-fact. She picks at her

nails with a wooden cuticle stick from Needy's night

stand.

She shakes her head, annoyed with Needy.

EXT. NEEDY'S STREET (FLASHBACK) - NIGHT

We see Jennifer staggering down the street, battered,

mutilated and bloody. She spits a few TEETH onto the

curb, clutching her chest. We see her wander toward

Needy's house...

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM (PRESENT DAY) - CONTINUOUS

EXT. SECLUDED STREET (FLASHBACK) - NIGHT

Jennifer is wandering down a rural road in a daze. She

hears a faint COUGH. Jennifer stops and sees a hunched

FIGURE walking down the opposite side of the street. It's

AHMET FROM INDIA, the foreign student. He's covered in

soot and looks traumatized.

Jennifer takes a step. Ahmet takes a step. Jennifer

stops. Ahmet stops.

Their eyes meet. Jennifer crosses the street. Ahmet

stares at her, frightened. Jennifer addresses him in a

quiet, gravelly voice.

Ahmet coughs.

Ahmet NODS.

Ahmet shakes his head.

CONTINUED:

Ahmet shakes his head again.

She takes Ahmet's hand. As her BLOODY NAILS dig into his

wrist, his eyes widen.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM (PRESENT DAY) - NIGHT

Jennifer jams the CUTICLE STICK into her own forearm and

drags it through her flesh. Needy screams and covers her

mouth.

She pulls out the stick. The wound seals over instantly.

Needy gasps and touches Jennifer's unmarked arm.

Needy shakes her head, not comprehending.

Jennifer rolls her eyes.

CONTINUED:

She smiles seductively.

Needy crawls further away from her, shivering.

Jennifer rolls her eyes and gets out of bed. She walks

over to the second-story window and cranks it open.

She climbs onto the windowsill. Needy watches, confused.

She LEAPS gracefully out the window.

Needy watches in stunned silence for a few moments. Then

she creeps over to the window and looks out. Nothing

there but the wind. Jennifer's gone.

EXT. OUR LADY OF PERPETUAL BLOOD CEMETERY - DAY

We're in a small Catholic cemetery. A small, neat gravel

path runs through the stately old monuments into a small

valley where a funeral is taking place.

CONTINUED:

Faint moaning and sobbing can be heard. Then, a

procession of 6 or 7 GOTH/EMO KIDS appears on the crest

of the hill. They move forward into the cemetery,

flamboyantly dressed in black capes, chains, cloaks, neon

hairpieces, fishnets, mesh, 18-hole combat boots, etc.

These are Colin Gray's friends.

One girl scatters blood-red rose petals dramatically on

the path as she stumbles along, weeping.

At the bottom of the hill, Colin Gray's very conservative-

looking family stands next to the fresh grave, surrounded

by sympathetic mourners. NEEDY stands near the back,

looking shell-shocked. There are also a few press

photographers snapping photos, and of course, a Catholic

priest.

The priest and family are momentarily distracted by the

motley crew of Goths descending on the funeral. The

priest clears his throat disapprovingly.

A GOTH BOY runs up to the grave and drops to his belly.

She lights a bundle of SAGE and waves it in the air.

Colin's father gags, appalled.

CONTINUED: (2)

She says "Jennifer Check" as if it were the most

disgusting name imaginable. Needy covers her face.

Colin's parents stare at the ground.

CONTINUED: (3)

The parents flinch.

She throws herself to the ground, crying and pounding the

dirt like a toddler.

Colin Gray's mother buries her head in her hands and

begins weeping. Mr. Gray attempts to comfort her.

The goth boy looks terrified. But Mrs. Gray's not done

ranting yet.

She kicks the coffin to illustrate.

CONTINUED: (4)

The kids stare at her in awe. Needy watches as Mrs. Gray

collapses into Mr. Gray's arms.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - DAY

Two girls are hanging an homemade banner on the fence

surrounding the football field. It says "TURNABOUT DANCE

OCTOBER 5 -- TICKETS ON SALE."

Needy walks briskly toward school, huddled in her parka.

She looks totally fucked up, like she hasn't slept in

days. There are hollows beneath her eyes.

We see Jennifer a few yards away, talking and laughing

with some other flag team members.

Needy gazes off into the distance with bloodshot eyes. As

she stares at Jennifer, she see has a series of brief,

gruesome HALLUCINATIONS:

Jennifer as a grinning death mask. Jennifer as a corpse,

the lower half of her face rotted away. Jennifer as a

harlequin monster. Needy hears the rush of her own blood,

the barely audible buzzing of flies...

Chip jogs up next to her, jolting her out of her reverie.

CONTINUED:

Her gaze is so intense and crazed that Chip has no option

but to submit. He nods reluctantly.

EXT. KETTLE HIGH CAMPUS - CONTINUOUS

Needy and Chip walk to an alley behind the school.

Melting snow drips off the eaves.

Needy pulls out a large black binder and opens it. It's

full of copies from the library and Internet printouts.

The spine reads "JENNIFER RESEARCH"

She thrusts a piece of paper into CHIP's hands.

CONTINUED:

CHIP stares at her.

She grabs the piece of paper from him.

CHIP looks more dubious than ever.

She holds up one of the printouts.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy is silent for a moment. She realizes CHIP will

never believe her and that she'll lose him forever if she

continues babbling.

CHIP isn't totally convinced, but his face softens.

Needy turns and pitches the black binder into a Dumpster.

CONTINUED: (3)

He taps his chest. Needy laughs.

INT. DEVIL'S KETTLE HIGH GYMNASIUM (TO ESTABLISH) -

EVENING

A group of student council kids are putting the finishing

touches on the dance decorations. The theme is "Through

the Trees" and there are papier mache trees everywhere.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Needy stands in front of a full-length mirror, wearing a

big `80s-style magenta prom dress. It sags on her flat

chest and looks ridiculous.

CONTINUED:

Greedo the ferret circles her ankles.

Toni, Needy's mom, appears behind her with a curling

iron.

She gently takes off Needy's glasses.

She takes a section of Needy's hair and wraps it around

the curling iron. Smoke rises.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy stares at herself in the mirror. Despite Toni's

best efforts, Needy looks like the walking dead.

INT. CHIP'S HOUSE - EVENING

Chip is standing in underwear and black dress socks,

taking his suit out of the closet. Suddenly, there's a

loud KNOCK on the door.

We hear the voice of CHIP'S MOM through the door.

Chip puts on a robe and opens the door.

Chip's mom is holding a SMALL PINK AEROSOL CAN.

In the background, we can see the BOWFLEX with clothes

hanging off it.

CONTINUED:

Chip reluctantly accepts the spray.

INT. NEEDY'S HOUSE (LIVING ROOM) - EVENING

Needy is fully dressed and garishly made up. Toni holds a

digital camera at arm's length and takes a shot of the

two of them together.

The mother/daughter photo looks ghastly. Toni's eyes are

closed and Needy pouts miserably.

INT. CHIP'S HOUSE (LIVING ROOM) - EVENING

Chip's mother snaps a series of stiffly posed photos of

Chip and his little sister, Camille.

We can see the PEPPER SPRAY tucked into the interior of

Chip's jacket.

INT. KETTLE HIGH GYMNASIUM (TO ESTABLISH) - NIGHT

The gym is decorated to look like an enchanted forest. A

large banner reads "Through the Trees- Turnabout Dance"

There are streamers and balloons everywhere in sickly

shades of green and purple.

A DJ plays badly-mixed pop music.

Couples drift into the gym. The GOTH KIDS who were at

Colin Gray's grave travel in a pack, sulking.

The goth girl who loved Colin wanders through the

decorations and pops every balloon she passes with a pin.

As she pops them, she narrates dramatically.

Another GOTH GIRL, looking exasperated, grabs a balloon,

shoves it under her babydoll dress and pops it.

She rapidly shoves another one under her dress and pops

it again, smirking.

The girls glare at each other.

Needy walks in, looking small and apprehensive in her bad

`80s dress. She looks around for Chip, but he's not there

yet. A few mean kids point at her dress and snicker.

Needy ladles some juice into a paper cup and leans

against the wall, waiting anxiously for her Prince

Charming.

EXT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

Chip is cutting through the park on his way to the dance.

He whistles to himself.

Across the park, he sees a STRAY DOG trotting toward him.

The dog pants aggressively. CHIP tries to smile, but

looks uncomfortable.

A few SQUIRRELS emerge from the trees, gazing curiously

at him.

INT. DEVIL'S KETTLE HIGH GYMNASIUM - CONTINUOUS

Couples are beginning to grind against each other on the

dance floor. Needy watches them longingly. She checks her

Mickey Mouse watch.

EXT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

Chip picks up the pace, jogging down the path. In the

distance behind him we can barely make out Jennifer's

form. She looks more spectral then we've ever seen her.

Chip speeds up instinctively.

Suddenly, Jennifer's about ten paces closer.

Then she's closer again, as if she can fold space and

time. She's ethereal, flickering.

CHIP turns to look over his shoulder.

INT. DEVIL'S KETTLE HIGH GYMNASIUM - CONTINUOUS

The music fades out and there's a squeal of feedback from

the sound system. Mr. Wroblewski walks onto the stage in

a bad suit. He awkwardly picks up the mic with his one

good hand and pats it with his robotic one.

The students turn to look at him, annoyed by the

distraction.

CONTINUED:

Murmuring and applause.

Needy gags on her juice.

EXT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

Chip continues to hurry briskly along through the park.

CHIP makes an incoherent noise and jumps as Jennifer

appears, improbably, right in front of him. She's wearing

a gorgeous white formal gown and looks perfect.

She mimics a blank, drooling expression.

CONTINUED:

CHIP looks astonished and hurt.

CONTINUED: (2)

She sniffles, wiping her eye.

CHIP looks miserable.

CONTINUED: (3)

CHIP glances up at her. She's earnest, beautiful.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL GYM - CONTINUOUS

Mr. Wroblewski pauses dramatically for effect.

The heavy stage curtains part to reveal SOFT SHOULDER in

all their glory. Success has treated them well-- they're

glowing and wearing designer rock n' roll couture. They

look like the young Rolling Stones.

Needy drops her cup. Juice splatters onto the ground.

The students rush the stage, shrieking. Nikolai raises

his fist and the band launches into a heavy, uptempo

version of "Through the Trees."

Needy looks as though she's had a revelation. A look of

pure horror crosses her face.

CONTINUED:

She rushes toward the gym exit, tripping in her high

heels.

EXT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

CHIP is hypnotized in the glow of the streetlights.

Jennifer leans forward and kisses him on the neck

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

Needy is running toward the park in her gown. She takes

off her shoes and tosses them aside, her arms and legs

pumping furiously.

She picks up the pace, cheeks puffing.

INT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

Jennifer is kissing Chip. She pulls him down onto the

damp, muddy grass.

CONTINUED:

She pulls away from him, feigning a guilty conscience.

Jennifer smiles, satisfied.

She resumes kissing him enthusiastically.

She stands up and starts to lead Chip toward an

abandoned, fenced-off COMMUNITY POOL. It's drained and

spooky and looks dangerous.

Jennifer giggles and pulls him along.

She begins to climb the chain link fence.

EXT. CHIP'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Needy jogs toward CHIP's house. Exhausted and sweaty, she

presses the doorbell. She falls to her knees on the front

stoop, panting and wheezing.

CONTINUED:

Camille answers the door.

Camille has no reply. She eyes Needy suspiciously and

licks a Popsicle.

CHIP's mother appears and shoves Camille aside.

She turns to scold Camille.

She turns back to address Needy.

But Needy's gone.

CONTINUED: (2)

EXT. MURPHY POOL - SAME

Murphy Pool is even eerier from the inside. The fenced-in

deck area is littered with garbage, abandoned pool

furniture and graffiti. Someone has spray painted the

word "HOPELESS" on a wall.

CHIP shivers and looks around nervously.

Jennifer nonchalantly unzips her dress and shimmies out

of it, revealing her bra and panties.

She prances over to the abandoned pool and begins to

climb down the ladder on the side. The pool is full of

filthy, freezing water.

He slaps away a FLY.

CONTINUED:

CHIP nods sadly.

Chip tiptoes forward tentatively and sinks to his knees.

He leans in and kisses Jennifer, who's still clinging to

the ladder.

The sound of buzzing flies grows louder.

Suddenly, Jennifer opens her eyes. She hooks her arm

around Chip's neck and lunges backward. They tumble off

the ladder, into the pool. Chip SCREAMS.

INT. MC CULLUM PARK - CONTINUOUS

Needy runs into the park and scans the dark horizon. Her

bare feet are bloody from running and her face is shiny

with sweat.

A terrified SCREAM in the distance.

Needy whips around, hikes up her skirt and starts running

toward Murphy Pool.

She reaches the fence and starts climbing it. She slips

and cuts her hand on a broken link.

CHIP screams again on the other side of the fence.

CONTINUED:

She flings herself over the top of the fence, her body

slamming against the concrete pool deck. Her ARM snaps.

It's a compound fracture, the bone thrusting through the

flesh of her arm as she screams.

INT. MURPHY POOL - CONTINUOUS

Needy staggers toward the pool, which is surrounded by an

extraterrestrial glow. Chip's moaning is almost

unbearable. Needy stares into the abyss and claps her

hands over her mouth.

Jennifer is waist deep in the DIRTY WATER, flinging Chip

against the wall like a rag doll. He's still conscious,

but his skin on his chest has been RIPPED OFF to expose

his ribs. Jennifer is CHEWING happily.

Chip looks at Needy, his face a mask of agony.

Jennifer begins gnawing on Chip's neck, so engaged in the

task that she doesn't notice Needy.

Needy climbs up on the diving board and crosses herself.

Jennifer looks up with demonic, bloodshot eyes just as

Needy leaps off the diving board.

Needy lands on Jennifer's shoulders, taking her out. She

wraps her legs around Jennifer's neck and drags her under

the water.

Jennifer emerges. Needy grabs her by the hair and girly-

slaps her furiously across the face. Then she spots the

PEPPER SPRAY lying by the side of the pool. She grabs it

and sprays it in Jennifer's eyes. Jennifer shrieks and

vomits NASTY, SPINY GORE all over Needy and Chip.

CONTINUED:

Jennifer ROCKETS straight up into the air like a goddess,

hovering ten feet above the pool. Her eyes burn. Her skin

is corpselike. She's drenched from head to toe in the

prickly ooze.

Jennifer speaks in a metallic, demonic-sounding voice.

Needy glares at Jennifer, surprisingly fearless.

She begins to weep.

CONTINUED: (2)

Jennifer floats in midair toward the pool deck and drifts

down, landing on her feet. Needy crawls out of the pool

and faces her down.

A look of ABJECT HORROR on Jennifer's face. She reels

back against the chain link fence, her eyes blazing.

Her voice is now an unearthly growl. In the background,

Chip is slowly, painfully pulling a POOL SKIMMER with an

eight-foot handle off the pool deck.

She HURTLES herself toward Needy, roaring, her eyes white-

hot, her jaws agape. She's monstrous.

Chip suddenly stumbles in front of Needy and holds the

HANDLE of the POOL SKIMMER in front of them like a spear.

As Jennifer flies forward at demonic speed, she IMPALES

HER ENTIRE TORSO on the handle.

Needy screams. There's a beat of deafening silence.

CONTINUED: (3)

Chip collapses on the pool deck.

Jennifer rises uncertainly to her feet, "shishkebabbed"

on the giant skimmer. With effort, she pulls the handle

out of her body in several stages.

Needy watches, and realizes Jennifer is injured. Blood

drips onto the pool deck.

Blood trickles out of Jennifer's wound. She tries to plug

the hole with her hand.

Needy shakes her head mutely.

She begins to climb the fence, wincing in pain, then

glances over her shoulder at Needy and Chip.

She continues climbing.

CONTINUED: (4)

She smirks and jumps over the fence, stumbling off into

the distance. Needy watches her, her eyes narrowing with

hate.

Once Jennifer has disappeared, Needy turns her attention

to Chip, who is barely alive. She stares in horror at his

torn arm and exposed ribs, then falls to her knees over

his body.

She reaches into Chip's pocket and pulls out his beat-up

cell phone. She wipes off the prickly ooze with her hand.

Needy dials to no avail. The phone is hopelessly clogged

with ooze. She knocks it against the deck.

Chip begins gagging and coughing. He rolls onto his back,

his eyelids fluttering.

CONTINUED: (5)

Needy begins to sob hoarsely.

Chip's eyes close. His face relaxes. He's gone.

Needy wails at the top of her lungs. She rests her head

against his mutilated chest, oblivious to the blood and

bone.

INT. DEVIL'S KETTLE HIGH GYMNASIUM - NIGHT

The dance is in full swing and students are slow-dancing.

Girls rest their heads against boys' chests, only under

far less macabre circumstances than Needy and CHIP's

deathbed tableau.

Soft Shoulder are still playing onstage, their guitars

chiming melodically.

CONTINUED:

The bass player, Dirk, turns toward Nikolai Wolf.

He accidentally speaks into the mic, attracting unwanted

stares from the kids.

The students cheer approvingly, their faces bright and

hopeful.

Nikolai bares his teeth in a frighteningly fake smile.

EXT. C0RVALLIS HIGH CAMPUS- CONTINUOUS

Illuminated by lamp light, Needy limps toward the gym

entrance. She's completely covered in demon-goo. Her face

is bloody, her hair is full of blood and guts, and her

BROKEN ARM looks gruesome.

In the background, yet another oblivious COUPLE are

making out.

Needy stops to stare at them, her gaze calm but obviously

insane. They break apart and stare back at her.

Needy bends over, casually holds one nostril closed, and

does a "farmer blow." A bloody clot flies out of her

nose.

The guy takes a good look at Needy and blinks, startled.

CONTINUED:

The couple have already resumed making out.

Needy rolls her eyes, turns away, and continues limping

into the gym.

INT. GYM - CONTINUOUS

Needy enters the gym and slams the door shut behind her.

People ignore her as she slowly walks toward the stage.

They're too busy slow dancing and laughing in their

respective cliques.

She looks up at the stage, where Soft Shoulder are

playing an insufferably long coda.

Nikolai noodles through a guitar solo, then looks up and

sees Needy looking directly at him, her eyes full of

hate.

Nikolai gulps nervously and elbows Dirk.

Needy points to her eyes with two fingers, then points at

Nikolai, as if to say, Gotcha. She looks completely

possessed.

Dirk takes one look at Needy's face and takes off his

guitar. Nikolai motions for the rest of the band to leave

the stage. The music stops abruptly. The kids in the gym

murmur and complain, confused.

CONTINUED:

Needy tries to follow them. She limps blindly toward the

stage and climbs up. Everyone watches, gasping in horror.

By now the band is disappearing out the side door of the

gym.

But they're gone.

Needy looks out at her classmates. They stare back. She

PASSES OUT COLD.

INT. CHIP'S STREET - MORNING (TO ESTABLISH)

INT. CHIP'S HOUSE (LIVING ROOM) - MORNING

We see the POLICE (including newly minted officer ROMAN

DUDA) informing Chip's mother that his body has been

found. She collapses onto the floor, curling up into the

fetal position.

INT. NEEDY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Needy is lying in bed, shaking, her arm in a cast. Her

mother tries to rouse her.

Needy pulls the covers over her head.

CONTINUED:

Toni shrugs, resigned, and tosses the book on the floor.

EXT. JENNIFER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Needy is crouched outside Jennifer's window, hiding in

the shrubbery. She looks almost feral, with wide eyes and

a hungry expression.

Through the window, we see Jennifer sitting at a vanity

and combing her hair, oblivious to the intruder in her

yard.

We see Jennifer putting the comb down and examining her

hair with a appraising eye.

Needy creeps away from the window.

EXT. JENNIFER'S HOUSE - NIGHT

We're seeing a FLASHBACK of the night Needy slaughtered

Jennifer.

Needy plunging through the window. Jennifer thrashing.

The blood. The struggle. The levitation. The arrival of

the police.

We see, for a moment, Jennifer's sly, challenging smile

as Needy raises the boxcutter to slash her. That

signature look of mastery and control.

CONTINUED:

We see Jennifer's mother holding her again, screaming,

though all we hear is SILENCE and STATIC. Sure enough,

Jennifer's bleeding body seems to be artfully, sensually

draped in her mother's arms. She almost seems to be

SMIRKING at us.

INT. "THE HOLE" - NIGHT

We're back in solitary confinement, where Needy has been

narrating the whole sordid tale. She hasn't moved a

muscle since beginning her story. Only a single shaft of

moonlight illuminates the room.

An orderly shoves DINNER through a slot in the door. It's

a pile of mystery meat. Needy wrinkes her nose.

Needy reaches up and distractedly pulls back the neckline

of her shirt...

In the moonlight, we see Needy still has a infected-

looking BITEMARK near her shoulder. She scratches it,

wincing.

PULL BACK to reveal that Needy, still cross-legged is

HOVERING five feet off the floor. Effortlessly.

With visible concentration, she slowly flies up toward a

narrow WINDOW positioned up near the ceiling. To anyone

with normal abilities, it would be impossible to access.

CONTINUED:

Needy reaches the window, gazes at it for a moment, then

SMASHES it with surprising strength.

EXT. LEECH LAKE HOSPITAL - FIVE MINUTES LATER

Needy strolls across the grounds in her bunny slippers.

She heads confidently toward the SECURITY FENCE and

passes through it after casually mangling the bars. Only

a Needy-shaped hole remains.

EXT. COUNTY ROAD 9 - TEN MINUTES LATER

Needy is striding purposefully down a dark country road.

The hospital recedes in the background.

A few RACCOONS gather by the side of the road, watching

Needy as she walks past.

A PICKUP TRUCK whizzes by with its windows rolled down.

"Through the Trees" blasts from the radio.

Needy begins to sing, a lopsided grin on her face.

EXT. MURPHY POOL - NIGHT

Devil's Kettle citizens are gathered around Murphy Pool,

crying. It's a CANDLELIGHT MEMORIAL for Chip. Their faces

are weary and sorrowful. Photos of Chip have been

arranged around the edge of the fence. We see a picture

of CHIP AND NEEDY on the end.

Someone has brought a CD player, and the mourners sing

along, their voices soaring.

EXT. COUNTY ROAD 9 - CONTINUOUS

Needy holds her thumb aloft as she walks down the remote

country highway.

CONTINUED:

A small creek emptying into a stream   runs parallel to the

road. Needy seems something glinting   at the mouth of the

creek and stoops to pick it up. It's   Nikolai's BOWIE

KNIFE, the one he threw into Devil's   Kettle, never to be

seen again.

Needy picks it up and tucks it into her waistband.

A STATION WAGON comes rattling up the road. Needy sticks

her thumb out again.

The wagon pulls over to the side of the road. The driver,

a grizzled older man, rolls down the window. He eyes

Needy lasciviously.

Needy gratefully hurries into the driver's seat.

CONTINUED: (2)

Needy smiles blithely and pops the clear Lifesaver into

her mouth.

The station wagon pulls off. As it sputters off into the

distance, we see a road sign that reads, ironically, SOFT

SHOULDER.

We hear the song on the radio end, segueing into the DJ's

bumper.

The DJ's voice fades out as the car vanishes into the

horizon.

