He decides to humor her.

There's a KNOCK at the door as Serena and Margot peek inside,

gasping in horror at the sight of books.

Elle smiles brightly at them.

Margot looks at Serena, confused.

Elle interrupts her.

Elle sits in front of Amy, as Amy quizzes her with practice

LSAT questions. Books are piled high around them.

Elle gazes out the.window to see ---Warner and some BARE-

CHESTED FRATERNITY BOYS carrying a keg across the quad. Her

eyes light up and she looks at Amy pleadingly. Amy shakes her

head no. Elle slumps, then rises and goes to the window,

closing the shades and getting back to work.

ON VIDEO, Elle addresses the camera.

ON VIDEO, Elle walks across campus with Underdog in her

purse, feigning staged innocence. A RANDOM FRAT BOY pinches

"LSAT EXAM -- Sections 1-6" is scrawled on the chalk board.

Elle sits in an auditorium with about 90 other students, LSAT

booklet open, filling in answers. Concentrating so hard

she's practically getting a forehead wrinkle.

ON VIDEO, Elle speaks to the camera.

Sapphire looks at her, still not getting it.

Elle reacts to her mother's skewed logic.

Pale, studious LAW STUDENTS clad in earth tones, move into

their dorm, carrying in their spartan belongings (coffee

makers, books, computers).

In the distance, a HAPPY POP SONG (perhaps "Heaven Tonight by

Hole) is heard. As it gets louder, heads turn to see --

A silver, convertible Boxster driving up, Elle at the wheel,/

MUSIC BLASTING. A large MOVING VAN follows the Boxster.

Peop le lean out of their windows, buzzing with interest as--

Elle's car stops in front of the dorm. She hops out,

scooping up Underdog and looking every inch the LA-Fred-Segal-

glamour-queen, as she looks around with a smile.

Elle looks at Underdog.

She bends down to pour some Evian into his inflatable doggy

dish, inadvertently revealing cleavage to a passing

BESPECTACLED BOY (several yards away).

He trips, dropping his I-MAC. It shatters into a million

pieces.

Not noticing/ Elle stands and turns to two MOVING GUYS/ who

are hauling a pink, faux-fur love seat and a potted palm tree

out of the truck.

.        Dare to dream, Ms. Woods. Ms.

She gathers up her muffins and stands, clutching the basket

to her chest as she goes.

She walks away, completely deflated, passing by the RAGING

FEMINIST STUDY GROUP. Enid calls out.

'       stiff.

Donovan sits at a long table, next to BROOKE, a pretty 26-

interns and associates sit at the far end of the table taking

notes. A cop stands guard at the door.

She puts the cream back in her purse.        They ride in silence

fo r a moment. Then --

She smiles at him.                             .

Elle walks down the sidewalk to her dorm, approaching Dorky

David as he tries to ask out a FRESHMAN GIRL who thinks she's

a lot cuter than she actually is. She stands with her

freshman friends.

-                     DORKY DAVID

winces as she passes.

The Freshman Girl turns back to him.

Her friends snicker. Elle stops at this and sighs,

acknowledging to herself that she has to help this guy.   She

turns and marches back, SLAPPING Dorky David across the   face.

Dorky David is stunned, as is the Freshman Girl.

Elle signals with her eyes for him to go along with it.

She rushes off. Dorky David and the Freshman Girl and her

friends watch Elle go. After a moment, the girl turns to David.

W al k in g away, Elle hears this and smiles.

P e op le ascend the wide courthouse steps.

T he DA grills Mrs. Windham Vandermark.

DA Rafferty continues her grilling.

T h i s time -- Chutney is on the stand.

CLOSE ON a tiny Speedo thong .

We PULL BACK to reveal that the DA is holding it up as she

questions Enrique.

Enrique shifts in his seat.

The courtroom gasps. Elle looks over at Brooke, who's

shaking her head, outraged.

Everyone files out.    As Brooke is being led away, she turns

to Elle.

Brooke is taken away.

Elle, in sweats and a pony-tail, pours over a mammoth-sized

deposition. A KNOCK sounds.

Sarah enters.

Elle hands the deposition over.

She grabs another one off of the stack and begins reading.

Sarah lingers.

Elle looks up, defensive.

Sarah starts to go, then stops.

Margot and Serena look over at her.

Margot and Serena stare at her, realizing she means it.

They start to head out. Margot hands Sa-rah the bottle of champagne.

She spots The Rock on Sarah's finger and grabs her hand.

Elle hustles them out the door.

She shuts the door behind them.    Then looks at Sarah.

Sarah sets down the Veuve.

She smiles at Elle.

Elle smiles .

Paulette arranges a nail polish display by the door.

Paulette freezes and slowly turns to find UPS Guy holding out

a big package.

He hands her the computerized tablet and as he does, the pen

velcroed to the side falls off.

Paulette watches as it FALLS IN SLO-MO. Realizing that now

is the perfect time to try the Bend & Snap.

She bends slowly, tush out, knee cocked. She grabs the pen

and as she prepares to Snap back up, UPS Guy leans over to

help.

Not realizing he's leaning over, she SNAPS back up --

CLOCKING him in the NOSE with her head.

He reels backward, holding his nose, blood flowing as

Paulette stares at him-in horror.

Elle waits in line for the water fountain, talking on her

cell phone.

We INTERCUT with Paulette as she watches- UPS Guy being

carried out by paramedics on a gurney. The ladies of the

shop flutter around him, concerned.

She hangs up. Enrique cuts in front of her in line for the

water fountain. She glares at him, tapping her foot.

He finishes getting his drink and turns, looking at her.

He walks past, as.Elle gapes at him.     Realizing.

Elle grabs Emmett's arm as he whispers with Donovan.

She grabs Warner as he's passing.

He looks down at her Prada sandals.

Donovan frowns, not seeing.

She points at Warner, who shrugs. Brooke leans over.

Donovan scoffs.

He grabs Emmett's arm and pulls him aside as they confer on

more serious matters. Emmett looks at her as if to say

"Sorry", before he looks back at Donovan.

Brooke looks at Donovan, then back at Elle, rolling her eyes.

Elle sits down, pissed. Warner is next to her.

She looks at him like he's a complete idiot, as the judge

takes his seat.

Women in the audience openly sigh.     Elle makes a puke

gesture. Enid concurs.

Donovan smiles a smug smile.

Emmett stands.

Donovan glares at him.

He approaches Enrique and starts firing questions at rapid

speed.

The audience lets out a gasp.      Elle looks up, shocked, then

delighted.

Enrique begins to sweat.

CHUCK, scrawny and angry, stands up in the audience.

The courtroom ERUPTS and the judge bangs the gavel.

Elle smiles victoriously from her seat.   Emmett grins back at

her.

Donovan shakes his head, smiling in amazement.

Elle and Emmett walk down the stairs together in high

spirits. Donovan catches up.

He walks on.   She looks at Emmett, excited.   He high-fives

her.

Paulette is closing up as Elle follows her around.

Paulette looks at Elle. Emotional.

Elle passes Sarah, who carries a stack of depos into the

conference room to Dick and Bobby.

They share a smile as Elle walks over to Donovan's glass-

walled office and knocks on the door. Nervous.

He beckons her inside, and she goes, shutting the door behind

her.

He's behind his desk. He motions for her to sit in one of

the two chairs opposite him.

She sighs,

Elle is overwhelmed by his praise.

Donovan walks around his desk and sits in the chair opposite

her.

He smiles.

Eager for his knowledge, Elle is on the edge of her seat. He

leans in.

As he says the last sentence, he SLIDES his hand UP HER

THIGH.

Sarah walks down the hallway, glancing in Donovan's office to see --

H E R POV --

Donovan's hand sliding up Elle's skirt.         She shakes her head

in disgust, & heads off- NOT SEEING

Elle stares at Donovan in horror, then grabs his hand --

stopping its journey upward.

Elle rises, stung.       She stares at him for a beat.

She walks out.

Elle keeps walking.

Elle is in the elevator. Flushed and upset. As the doors

start to close, Sarah sticks her arm in, blocking them.

Sarah steps back, letting the doors shut.

Elle stomps out of the elevator, as Emmett gets in.

She marches past.   He follows, catching up.

She snorts.

Emmett looks pissed as he processes this.

She stops, giving him a sad smile.

She walks out.   Emmett watches her go, hating it.

Elle's Boxster, packed with suitcases and the potted palm,

pulls up.

Elle sits in front of Paulette, dejected.   Not even bothering

with a manicure.

She stands up.

IN A NEARBY CHAIR

Professor Elspeth Stromwell spins around, nails drying,

facing Elle.

Elle looks at her, shocked, as Professor Stromwell stands and

goes.

CLOSE ON A TV -- Donovan is being interviewed is on the

evening news.

He gives the reporters a smug smile.

IN THE WAITING ROOM

Brooke looks away from the TV. Emmett is next to her,

prepping her for the following day.

The door of the courtroom BANGS open and ELLE STRIDES IN,

dressed in a Prada mini-dress, Underdog in her purse. She

blows a bubble, lets it pop, then sets her briefcase down

next to Donovan's.

She nudges him aside.      Donovan looks at Brooke.

Dorky David steps up, holding out a marked casebook.

Elle starts to head up.

Elle, Donovan and Emmett head up, as does the DA.      Elle hands

the judge the case book.

The implication lingers in the air, as Donovan glares at her.

Emmett steps forward.

Elle smiles at him. Donovan looks from Emmett to Elle,

completely derailed.

Elle walks back to the table with a grin.       Warner looks shocked.

IN THE AUDIENCE

Paulette beams, the UPS Guy in the nose brace, next to her.

Serena and Margot, now in attendance, STAND clapping and

squealing in a completely inappropriate way.

Donovan takes a seat in the audience.    As he passes by Brooke:

The judge looks at Brooke.

As Donovan sits, Margot leans over.

AT THE DEFENSE TABLE

Sarah leans forward to Elle, who gathers her notes.

Elle looks at her, surprised.

The crowd murmurs.     Donovan rolls his eyes.

Chutney takes her hand off of the Bible and sits.

The DA rolls her eyes, as do the lawyers present.

Flustered, Elle turns to Chutney.

Brooke rolls her eyes.

Elle mentally kicks herself for not doing this herself.

Eirimett gives her a reassuring nod. She takes a deep breath,

then continues on.

Elle paces a bit. Underdog watches from her purse on the

table, intrigued by her line of questioning.

Gerard looks at Emmett.

Elle's onto something, but not sure what.                           .

People start to murmur.    Donovan snickers.    Sarah looks

worried.

The beginnings of a smile start to spread across Elle's face.

Elle continues.

Chutney doesn't answer.     She just glares at Brooke.

Chutney continues to glare.

Brooke looks at Chutney in horror, realizing.

Pandemonium erupts.     The gavel pounds.

Elle looks at Emmet t., elated at what's just happened.

Reporters mob Elle and Brooke as they make their way out of

the courtroom.

The reporters laugh as they snap pictures of her and a happy

Brooke.

CLOS E ON THE TV -- the channels change: golf -- a commercial -

- Elle in the courthouse.

Daniel, Elle 's father, watches TV as he does his morning

workout on the treadmill.

He looks next to him, where Sapphire is upside down on a yoga

inversion machine.

SAPPHIRE'S POV -- the upside-down television with Elle on it.

As the reporters continue to mob Brooke, Elle steps aside to

talk to Serena and Margot.                                   .

Enid walks up to the girls.

She looks at Serena.

She walks off.   Serena looks alarmed.

She air-kisses them as Margot leads a still shell-shocked

Serena away as Emmett walks up to Elle.

Elle looks up at the courthouse as the sun sets behind it.

She smiles, proud of herself.

She turns and finds Warner.

He moves closer.

He turns on the charm.

He pulls her close, hand around her waist, kissing her. She

looks up at him, a trace of the old love in her eyes. For a

moment, she melts.

After a moment, she steps back, removing his hand       from her             '

waist and wrenching it behind his back.

She walks down the steps. Warner watches her go,        then turns

to see Sarah, who's witnessed the entire episode.        She glares

at him, then walks past.

She shoves him, knocking him on his ass, then rushes to .catch

up with Elle.

Elle turns.

They look at each other in a silent truce.

She pulls off her engagement ring.

She smiles and heads off.    Elle smiles, processing this as

Em me tt approaches Elle.                                              .

She smiles at him.                                                     .

She heads down the stairs, stops and thinks a moment, then

runs back up --

-- Grabbing Emmett in a hellacious KISS. He kisses her back.

We CRANE UP as they embrace on the courthouse steps.

"Welcome Law Students Class of 2004" banners hang over

orientation tables. Nervous first year students stand in

line.

We PAN ACROSS a row of club tables -- passing "Harvard Law         .

Journal" and "Environmental Law Association" -- until we

reach a table that proudly bears the banner of "Blonde Legal

Defense Club".

Elle, in a red 2L t-shirt, stands behind the table,

straightening some flyers. UNDERDOG is plopped down on top

of the stack. Elle turns to see EMMETT next to her.

They kiss.

Elle smiles, turning back as A NERVOUS 1L GIRL steps up.

Elle smiles and looks down at -- the NEWLY BLONDE SARAH.

Sarah returns the smile as we PULL BACK to see a CROWD of

first year girls gathered around Elle's table, rushing to

sign up. Ready to be as blonde as they can be.

