A clock alarm SOUNDS over TITLES on BLACK.  We HEAR someone

clearing congested lungs, coughing up phlegm; a slight crash

STOPS both the cough and the alarm.

EXT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK - MORNING

The cottage is a tiny, peeling paint rat-trap set dead center

on a small ocean front cul-de-sac, surrounded by four massive

post-modern mansions.

INT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK BEDROOM - MORNING

GEORGE NELSON, 42, squints and shivers as the spotty morning

light and ocean breeze enter through an open window.  Bold

waves crash against the cliffs outside the room.  A five-foot

wide stack of hand hewed beams are piled pyramid style,

making movement in the room next to impossible.  George

stands shirtless in underwear and coughs again.  He steps

over a pile of tools and stands at the window, facing the

sea.  A happy sounding tune by Guster, "WHAT YOU WISH FOR,"

begins with the lyrics: 'Woke up today, to everything gray

and all that I saw just keeps going on and on...'

EXT. WEBBER'S HOUSE - MORNING

The post-modern house is three-levels of concrete and glass.

INT. SAM WEBBER'S BEDROOM - MORNING

SAM is sixteen with spiky black hair, a nose ring, two

earrings and painted black nails.  The song continues with:

'...sweep all the pieces under the bed, close all the

curtains and cover my head.'  Sam looks wasted as he climbs

out of bed and rummages through his dresser, retrieving an

empty bottle of prescription drugs; he tosses the bottle.  He

walks to a desk where a half-built model of a house sits

unfinished and squeezes glue into a plastic bag and sniffs

it.  Sam enters the closet and digs into a pile of dirty

clothes, pulling out the tie to a robe; he knots it around

the closet pole and then twists it once to form a noose.  He

slips his neck through the noose and lowers his body; though

we don't see exactly what he's doing below his neck, it's

evident through his jerking arm that he's masturbating.

EXT. BECK'S OCEAN FRONT MANSION - MORNING

COLLEEN BECK, George's next-door neighbor, is a well

maintained blonde in her late thirties.  She walks out of the

angular concrete mansion, grabs the paper and walks back in.

INT. BECK'S KITCHEN - MORNING

This is a minimalist kitchen, with pored concrete walls and

stainless steel cabinets.

Colleen drops the paper on the table and walks to the sink to

wash her hands.  The SONG CONTINUES: '...If this serenade is

not what you want, it's just how it is...'  Colleen appears

distracted for a moment.  She walks outside onto the terrace

with wet hands, then bolts back in, breezing through the

kitchen with purpose.

INT. ALYSSA BECK'S BATHROOM - MORNING

ALYSSA is sixteen and perfect with strawberry blonde hair and

white teeth; her head is partially out the bathroom window.

Colleen bursts in, eases Alyssa aside and with effort, sticks

her head out of the same high open window.

We must not see exactly what they see, but out the window and

almost beyond view, a stream of urine arks out from George

Nelson's beach house bedroom, into the pacific ocean some

twenty-feet below.  The piss stops.  Colleen bangs her head

trying to get it back inside the house.

INT. WEBBER'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - MORNING

ROBIN WEBBER is George's ex-wife, still beautiful at forty.

She herds two boys, RYAN (8) and ADAM (7), down the hall.

Robin stops and KNOCKS on a bedroom door.

A loud CRASH stops Ryan and Adam at the top of the stairs.

INT. SAM'S ROOM - MORNING

Robin rushes in and glances around the room for her son.

INT. SAM'S WEBBER'S CLOSET - MORNING

The closet pole and a long line of clothes have been felled

by Sam's dangerous whack-off technique; he's on the floor

with the robe tie still around his neck and a pile of shirts

sprawled over him.  The song continues: '...come out come

out, wherever you are, would you do it all over right from

the start, and what you wish for won't come true, you aren't

surprised to love, are you?'

Robin stops at the door, trying to figure out why her son is

sitting in a pile of his own clothes.  Ryan and Adam join

her, looking equally perplexed.

EXT. GEORGE NELSON'S CUL-DE-SAC - MORNING

George's dog, GUSTER, is doing his business on the lawn of a

modern day robber baron, DAVID DOKOS, who exits his house

with a briefcase.  He hops into his Mercedes and proceeds to

chase Guster straight across his well-manicured grass.

Guster easily escapes death and runs off.  George walks out

of his shack as David hops the curb, flips him off and drives

away.  George waves goodbye.

Guster runs to his side as Colleen rushes out of her house.

Colleen shies away from George's stare; he finally turns and

walks toward the house but stops short as he turns back.

This stops Colleen for a moment; it was difficult.  George

walks back to the cottage and locks Guster in before stepping

into an old Ford truck and driving off.  Colleen watches him

drive off, then turns to her house and stares.

INT. WEBBER'S DINING ROOM - MORNING

PETER WEBBER, Robin's husband, is a distinguished,

intimidating man with silver hair and an expensive suit.

LOIS, the maid, serves French toast to Ryan and Adam as Robin

sips tea.

Peter glances at Robin, who shrugs.

Sam walks into the room from the hall, outfitted in all black

with kick ass boots.

Adam, Ryan and Robin check out the eye shadow.

Sam flutters his eyelids in defiance of his stepfather.

Peter hesitates for just a second.

Sam's out the door with his eye shadow intact.

Robin focuses on Peter, who simply shrugs.  Adam stands up,

walks over to his father and gives him a hug.

Adam is quick to back away from his father and lick the

fingers of one hand.

INT. COMMUTER TRAIN - MORNING

George is resting his head against the glass window as he

stares out at the blighted landscape leading to downtown Los

Angeles.  A sudden pang tightens his face; he presses his

hand against his stomach and closes his eyes.

EXT. LAGUNA BEACH HIGH SCHOOL - MORNING

Sam is alone at the back of the parking lot, sitting on the

hood of an old Saab, smoking as two boys, JOSH and MAREK,

both seventeen, park a Porsche and pull Alyssa Beck (George's

peeping neighbor) and another girl out of the backseat.

Sam simply nods as Marek and the other girl laugh at his all

black garb, earrings and eye shadow.

Sam drops his cigarette and stomps it out as he stands; his

face lightens as Alyssa waves before walking away.

Josh raises his eyebrows and smiles before walking away.  Sam

faces the Saab and kicks the bumper as hard as he can.

Suddenly, a boy (COREY) bolts up from the back seat.

INT. DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES HIGHRISE - LATE MORNING

The architectural firm of Benson and Feinsilber occupies the

entire fortieth floor; George Nelson is their sole model

maker.  Rather than offices, most of the space is open,

segmented only by portable low walls.  Along the outer walls,

below the long line of windows, is a shelf filled with

amazingly intricate models.  George is alone in a cubicle of

his own, cutting polystyrene with a hot wire.  STEVEN GARDNER

rounds a corner with a velocity that makes George flinch.

Steven exits as quickly as he entered, but as soon as George

goes back to work, Steven pops his head back in.

George simply stares as Steven nods and leaves.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL CAFETERIA ATRIUM - LUNCHTIME

Sam is by himself, his eyes closed, listening to music

through headphones as Alyssa stops to stare; she visually

scans him head to foot, appearing slightly perplexed as a

friend passes.

The friend walks on; after a beat, Alyssa does too.

EXT. TOP OF THE WORLD PARK - EVENING

In the distance, the sun colors the sky a blinding orange as

it sets.  A Range Rover with blackened windows is parked

behind a Porsche.  'TINTED WINDOWS,' an up-tempo tune with a

hand clapping by the Pansy Division, begins: 'A bed would be

a treat/But all we've got is this backseat/Tinted windows are

a beautiful thing.'

Through the front windshield, we can see Marek sitting in the

passenger's seat with his eyes closed.

ANOTHER VIEW

Josh, Marek's friend, is sitting on a bench in the park

behind the cars. 'A dark secluded spot/In a deserted parking

lot/Tinted windows are a wonderful thing.'

Suddenly, the passenger door on the Rover opens and Marek

climbs out, brushing his hair with his hands before casually

checking his zipper.  He closes the door and the car speeds

away.  Josh walks to Marek and wordlessly they climb into the

Porsche and drive off.

EXT. GEORGE NELSON'S BEACH SHACK - DAY

George is shirtless in his front yard, hand hewing a twenty

foot beam.  One strong, long pull and a thin shaving flutters

to the ground; Guster nabs it and starts to chew.

Guster appears unconcerned as he awaits a new shaving.

George glances up, wipes the sweat from his forehead as

Alyssa walks toward him in white shorts and a tee shirt.

George goes back to works and Guster taste tests shavings as

Alyssa searches for something else to say.

George stops and looks up; he has no idea how to answer.

George is totally confused, unsure most of the answer, but

before he can question her, a police car pulls to a stop;

OFFICER KURT WALKER steps out.

Officer Walker removes a pad from his pocket and flips

through to find his place.

Officer Walker focuses on Alyssa.

Kurt stuffs his pad back into his pocket.

George hands him the plane and Kurt begins to work the wood.

George doesn't answer and Kurt keeps working.

Alyssa stares at George, disappointed.

Kurt is beginning to perspire as he shaves food off the beam

for Guster.

Kurt stops working and steps back.

Kurt walks to his car and drives off.  There's a moment of

awkwardness with Alyssa.  George walks into his house leaving

Alyssa with Guster.

INT. WEBBER'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Robin is sitting at the kitchen counter, cutting carrots;

through the French doors, she's able to watch Ryan and Adam,

along with a few friends, play in the pool.

Robin jerks with fright as half the carrots roll to the

floor.

George picks up the carrots and washes them in the sink.

George bites into a carrot as Robin starts chopping again.

Robin snatches the carrot from George's hand and chops it up.

George takes Robin's hand and removes the knife.

As George lets go, Robin holds on; he appears surprised by

her grip of his wrist.  Robin's eyes well with tears.

George is clearly not comfortable with his ex-wife's hold of

him, with her tears.

George jerks his arm away from her grip.

INT. WEBBER'S UPSTAIRS HALL - AFTERNOON

George is tense and he walks to Sam's door and KNOCKS.

Nothing.  George tries the door - it's locked.  Frustrated,

he walks back down the hall and down the stairs.

INT. WEBBER'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Outside, the boys are engaged in a raucous version of Marco

Polo.  Robin is at the sink; she holds her hair back with one

hand and splashes water on her face with the other.  George

walks by outside, carrying a ladder.

EXT. WEBBER'S BACKYARD - AFTERNOON

Ryan is the first to notice  George.

Robin wipes her face with a hand towel as she rushes out.

The boys have stopped playing; Adam opens his eyes.

The boys line up against the edge of the pool and watch

George extend the ladder against the house and climb.

George lops a leg over the railing and steps onto the bedroom

balcony.  He peers into the room through the sliding glass

door and tries to open it (locked) before removing the screen

to the small open window beside it.  He climbs in.

INT. SAM'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

Sam is asleep on his bed in his underwear, wearing

headphones.  On the floor is an aerosol can of whipping

cream.  George picks up the can and tosses it in the trash.

He focuses back on his son with his nose ring, earrings, blue

eyeshadow and thin, pale white body.  Sam is soundly asleep.

George gently removes the headphones from his son's head;

drum heavy music surges from the small, padded speakers.

A KNOCK on the door stirs Sam more than his father's voice.

Sam's eyes are still closed as he shifts onto his side.

George opens the door; Robin is weak and weepy.

George walks out of the room, around Robin and down the

stairs without a word.  Sam stirs at the sound and sits up to

confront his mother.

EXT. WEBBER'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Robin grabs the door and closes it quickly, but doesn't move.

INT. SAM'S ROOM - AFTERNOON

Sam rushes over to the window and stares down at the screen

and ladder.  Ryan, Adam and their friends are still in the

pool, holding onto the coping, staring up at Sam.  Sam slams

the window shut and searches for the can of whipping cream.

He gets down on his knees to search under the bed.  Standing

and making one more pass of the room, he notices the can in

the trash.  He instantly focuses all his rage at the closed

door.

INT. WEBBER'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - AFTERNOON

Robin is sitting on the floor at the top of the stairs,

staring blankly down at the foyer of this modernist mansion.

EXT. DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES - MORNING

The traffic is thick and loud and the sky is a blanket of

brown as George makes his way down a sidewalk mixed with

professionals and panhandlers.  Suddenly sick, George rushes

to the side of a building and vomits.

INT. BENSON, KIDDLER, FEINSILBER AND ASSOICATES - MORNING

George wipes a clump of wet paper towel against the vomit

stain on his cuff as he walks through the pockets of cubicles

to a large enclosed office.  A SECRETARY smiles as she stands

up from her desk and opens the door.

He holds out the wad of wet paper towels, but before he can

say trashcan, BRYAN BURKE stands up from behind his desk.

INT. BRYAN BURKE'S OFFICE - MORNING

George steps in and the secretary closes the door to the

office.  Bryan approaches with his arm outstretched, but

George can only raise the paper towels.

Bryan grabs a trashcan and holds it up; George tosses the

ball into the trash and sits down.

Bryan motions with his hand as he sits.

Bryan nods and laughs as he takes a chunk of croissant and

chews as he talks.

Bryan is anxious as he holds up the rest of the croissant.

George shakes his head "no".  Bryan tosses his croissant into

the trash can and leans forward.

George glances around the office, angered by the thought he's

being fired.

George nods as he stares at Bryan.

Bryan is rattled by George's blank stare.  He takes his glass

of orange juice and sits back in his chair, taking a sip, all

the while keeping an eye on George.

Bryan knows he's supposed to say something, he just can't

seem to figure out what.

Bryan lights up at the sound of his Alma matter.

This is not the direction Bryan had hoped the conversation

was headed.

Bryan wants this to end.  He leans forward with a whisper.

Bryan is perplexed as George stands.

Relieved and not understanding anything about irony, Bryan

stands and extends his hand.  George shakes Bryan's hand

without malice.

Bryan recoils slightly from the request.

George nods and leaves.  Bryan looks lost and guilty again.

INT. BENSON, KIDDLER, FEINSILBER AND ASSOICATES - MORNING

George walks around the maze of cubicles back to his own.  He

finds an empty box and starts to pack.  Against a wall, a

large rack is filled with spools of architectural plans.

George pulls one of the plans down, rolls it out and detaches

the wooden spool.  Without warning and with a fury hard to

fathom, he proceeds to bat and smash a shelf of beautifully

rendered models.  Heads pop up in other cubicles as George

walks out of his own and armed with a frightening rage,

methodically attacks model after model resting on shelves

just below massive plate glass windows that frame downtown

Los Angeles.  Steven Gardner, who asked for his model without

grass, rushes to within feet of George as he witness his

creation deconstruct into shards of cardboard and plastic.

George stops for a second to focus on Steven, but Steven is

smart enough to run.  George continues on with the business

of disassembling his work.

The plea is instantly followed by a pathetic low whine.

George works up a sweat as he whacks model after model;

portions of plastic walls or window splatter the office as

though bombed in war.  Bryan Burke's secretary inches as

close as she dares.

George lowers his stick as he faces her.

With that, George finishes what he began only minutes prior:

the complete and utter destruction of every model displayed

on every shelf in the office, save one.  Workers huddle

together, collectively moaning and moving en mass from the

mayhem.  George picks up the sole surviving model in his arms

and cradles it carefully as he walks into Bryan Burke's

office.

INT. BRYAN BURKE'S OFFICE - MORNING

Bryan cowers behind his desk as George enters with his model

in one hand and the long wooden stick in the other.

It takes Bryan a few aborted attempts to answer before he

simply nods.

Bryan nods again, then quivers as George steps forward, leans

the stick against the desk and extends his hand.

Bryan winces as he extends his hand.  They shake hands and

George grabs hold of the stick again.

George walks around the desk and bashes in a model hidden on

the floor, one that Bryan had obviously wanted to save.

George drops the wooden spool and walks out of the office as

Bryan garners the courage to stand.

George turns around only long enough to answer.

George closes the door behind him.  Bryan stares down at the

remains of the model; he gets down on his knees and carefully

gathers up the pieces.

EXT. DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES - MORNING

George is sweating as he walks with his box of personal items

under one arm and the model under the other.  Dizzy, he stops

for a moment and tires to orient himself, glancing one way,

then the other before staggering back and pressing himself

against the building for support.  Sweat beads and drops from

his nose and chin as the song, 'ACROSS THE UNIVERSE' begins

by The Beatles.  George sets the box down but clings tightly

to the model as he closes his eyes.

'Pools of sorrow, waves of joy are drifting through my open

mind, possessing them, caressing me...'

George drops face first to the cement, crushing the model

beneath him.

MONTAGE AS THE SONG CONTINUES

George is probed and poked by doctor after doctor.  An

ultrasound test followed by a CT scan, followed by a MRI

results in more tests.

A flexible tube is slid down George's throat as dye is shot

into his body.  'Sounds of laughter, shades of life are

ringing through my open view, inciting them, inviting me...'

A long blunt needle is shoved into George's side for a biopsy

of his pancreas.  X-rays are lit and highlighted as doctors

ponder the specks, the disease.

Finally, George is opened up; nearly bloodless slice through

skin, muscle and fat reveals death. 'Limitless undying love,

which shines around me like a million suns, which calls me on

and on across the universe...'

George is wheeled down a long hall to the critical care unit.

'Nothing's going to change my world, nothing's gonna change

my world...'

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - EVENING

George tries to sit up, but falls back as he closes his eyes,

opens his eyes, closes his eyes.

George opens his eyes again as an attractive NURSE enters

with a tray of food.

The nurse smiles as she lifts the cover off the dinner.

She raises George's bed.

The nurse glances over at the other patient in the room,

who's sleeping, before answering in a soft voice.

The nurse smiles as she sits down beside the bed.  She fills

a spoon with corn and aims it for George's mouth; he accepts

the good will, chews and swallows.

George takes another spoonful of food.

The nurse shakes her head "no".

She feeds George another small spoonful of food.

The nurse rests her hand for a moment on George's cheek.

Suddenly alarmed by her emotion, the nurse removes her hand

and stands back away from George.

George suddenly stops to catch his emotion.  The nurse checks

the door before walking back to George; she brushes back his

hair with both hands, then fingers the curves of his ears,

finally resting her thumbs on his lips.

Feeling guilty, she flees the room, waking the other PATIENT.

EXT. SAN JUAN CAPISTRANO TRAIN STATION - AFTERNOON

George is resting, eyes closed, sitting on a bench with his

box and the remnants of the model beside him.  A black Range

Rover pulls to a stop with a HONK.  George stands to gather

his things as Robin steps out of the car, yelling.

Robin is stumped for a second, confused by the words.

Robin climbs back in the car and slams her door shut.

INT. ROBIN'S RANGE ROVER - AFTERNOON

George sets his box in back and climbs into the front seat as

Robin takes off.  He closes his door as she runs a stoplight.

George raises his eyebrows, wanting just the slightest give

from Robin.  She glances at him, but won't yield.

Robin scoffs.

George rests a hand on the back of her neck.

Robin furrows her brow for a moment and glances at George.

It takes a while for her to answer.

George rests his hand on Robin's cheek for a moment, as the

nurse had done with him.  Robin turns her head and bites his

finger.

George nods as he mock nurses his finger.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL HALL - AFTERNOON

Sam is walking with Corey, who's wiry and wan with a red

nose.

Sam stops which stops Corey.  Sam glances around to make sure

no one's listening.

Sam walks away pissed that Corey knows what the deal is.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - MORNING

George is shirtless, the stitches still fresh on his side; he

carries/drags his mattress into the garage.  Alyssa walks

from her house to the garage and peeks in.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

George is making his bed, which is not easy because Guster is

curled up on it.  The one car garage is not dry-walled and

the cement floor is clean but stained.

George steps away from the bed, slightly rattled by Alyssa.

Alyssa sits down on the bed beside Guster and starts to

bounce up and down.  George takes another step back.

Alyssa lies down on the bed, lifting the sheet to her nose.

George is alarmed.  Guster licks Alyssa's ear.

George bangs his head with his hand and starts to search the

room.

Alyssa reaches out and slides a finger down his scar.

George pats down his pockets.

George opens the drawers of a small desk and a chest, not

paying attention to Alyssa as she raises her leg and runs her

hands down the stubby skin.

George dabs his keys from the floor beside the chest.

George turns around to Alyssa's leg up and a great view of

her underwear.

George whirls around to face Colleen as Alyssa lowers her

leg.

Alyssa miffed as she stands.

Alyssa walks around her mother and out of the garage.

Colleen stares at George.

Colleen turns and walks out.

INT. GEORGE'S TRUCK - LATE MORNING

George drives the four miles North to Robin's house listening

to Paula Cole.  He turns into Emerald Bay, a guard-gated

community and a Guard waves him in.

EXT. WEBBER'S HOME - LATE MORNING

George rushes from his car and tries the front door, but it's

locked.  He rings the bell and LOIS, the maid, answers.

INT. SAM'S ROOM - LATE MORNING

Sam has a CD by MARYLIN MANSON on loud as he packs a suitcase

on his bed.  The KNOCK on the door is barely heard.  ANOTHER

KNOCK draws his disapproval.

Sam's face turns sour as he yanks the door open.

Sam shrugs and returns to finish his packing.

It's nearly impossible to hear George over the music.

The music is quickly driving George crazy.

This doesn't register with Sam.

George is once again, seemingly unheard.  He walks to within

inches of Sam and grabs his head and yells into Sam's ear.

Sam pulls away from the touch and turns the music off.

George walks to the sliding glass door and stares down at the

boys and Robin in the pool.

EXT. WEBBER'S BACKYARD - LATE MORNING

Ryan and Adam are on their backs on rafts as Robin swims laps

between them.  Suddenly, like a UFO crashing to Earth, Sam's

suitcase spirals downward straight into the pool, barely

missing both Adam and Ryan.

The boys are knocked off their rafts as Robin takes off her

goggles and focuses on Sam up on his balcony.

George bursts out of the kitchen, onto the patio.

Sam storms off the balcony, back into his room.

Sam walks out of the kitchen to confront his father.

George walks to the edge of the pool and scoops up the

suitcase, holding it out as it drains.

Robin is in an uncomfortable position as she glances at Sam

before focusing on George.

Sam's eyes well with tears as his voice cracks.  Robin is

ready to concede.

Sam is crying now -- snot's running down his nose.  Robin is

shocked by George's forcefulness.

George walks to Sam and touches his arm.

Sam jerks away from his dad as dramatically as he can manage.

George drops the suitcase and grabs Sam by the arms.  As much

as Sam tries to resist, he's clearly no match for his father.

Sam glares at his mother before grabbing his soggy suitcase

and stomping out of the backyard.  Robin is stunned silent by

George's decisiveness.

INT. GEORGE'S TRUCK - LATE MORNING

Sam is pressed against the passenger side door.  George walks

from the backyard and opens the truck door to climb in but is

stopped by Sam's suitcase.  He lifts it out and sets it in

the bed, then slides into the cab, sitting on the soaked

seat.  George rises up and turns to Sam, who is sullen and

silent.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - AFTERNOON

Sam is shirtless on his back on the roof of the shack,

sunning himself as George struggles to extricate a sofa from

a doorjamb.  Guster is asleep on the grass, under a tree.

After another bout of trying, George drops the sofa and steps

back to glance up at Sam.

No reaction from Sam.

Sam glances down at his father, puzzled by the verse.

Sam dismisses his father without a word - he simply adjusts

his face back to the sun.  George walks away.  A sudden spray

of water drenches Sam, forcing him to his feet in a cold

panic.  George stops the hose water pelting.

MOMENTS LATER

George is still struggling with the sofa stuck in the door.

Frustrated, he steps away from the sofa.

INT. BEACH SHACK ENTRY - CONTINUOUS

Sam is leaning against a wall with his arms folded across his

chest.

The slightest alarm crosses Sam's face.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

George is shirtless in shorts, boiling pasta on a portable

stove as he heats a sauce in the microwave.  A dresser topped

with plyboard serves as a countertop; other than a sink being

across the garage near the toilet, this is a fairly well

equipped makeshift kitchen.

George waits a bit to make sure no response is no response.

Then stuffs a hunk of garlic bread into the toaster oven.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

Sam is sitting on the edge of a cliff that drops twenty feet

to the ocean; Guster is whining for attention behind Sam.

Guster inches forward on his belly, which makes Sam smile.

Sam drops to his belly and stretches out to pet Guster.

Guster inches closer and licks Sam's face.  George walks out

with a tray filled with spaghetti, garlic bread and a Coke.

George sets the tray on the ground beside Sam.

George walks to the edge of the cliff.

Sam sits up and faces his father with a trace of alarm.

George suddenly leaps forward and disappears into the sea as

a wave crashes against the rocks below.

Sam scurries to his feet and scans the ocean for his father;

the only thing visible is darkness.

Guster is lapping up the dinner, bread and all as Sam calls

out again.  In a bit of a panic, Sam runs from the cliff.

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - EVENING

The traffic is heavy as Sam runs against it.  Without a

sidewalk and with parked cars blocking a reasonable path,

this is a dangerous trek North.

EXT. ALISO CREEK BEACH - EVENING

Sam runs to the edge of the water and anxiously waits for his

father to emerge from the sea.  A jogger startles Sam - he

steps into a wave that soaks his shoes.  George floats on a

wave into view and stands in waist high water, only to be

knocked way back down.  He rises and falls and rises before

making his way to the sand and Sam.

George coughs and drops onto the sand exhausted.  Sam storms

off, angry that he cared enough to get angry.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - EVENING

Sam is winded as he walks off the street to the middle of the

yard.  He glances around for Guster.

Guster bounces out of the garage with spaghetti sauce

covering his muzzle.

Sam sits down on the grass and plays with Guster, who yaps

with joy as he breaks away and closes the distance with the

abandon of a puppy.

Sam manages to pin Guster on his back.  He looms over the dog

as he kisses him on the nose.

Sam rolls over Guster and stands, nearly stumbling in the

process - way uncool.

Guster bumps against Alyssa for her attention; she kneels

down to pet him.

Alyssa stands.  Sam is clearly shy around her.

Alyssa pets Guster again before walking away.  Sam is

smitten.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

Sam's curled up in a tattered lazy-boy near the toilet,

watching television as George sits on the bed, brushing his

teeth.  Suddenly, Sam turns to face his dad.

George nods as he continues brushing.

George nods again, which appears only to irritate Sam.

George walks around Sam to the sink and spits, rinses and

wipes his mouth with a towel.  He faces Sam.

Sam's jaw drops as he glances at the double-bed.

George smiles and pats Sam on the shoulder before walking to

the sofa and pulling it out to make a bed.

George drops his pants and climbs into bed.  He pulls the

sheet up and fluffs the pillow before resting his head.

George twists around in bed to face Sam.  After a beat, he

tosses the sheet back, climbs out of bed, pulls back on his

pants, slips on his shoes and walks out of the garage.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - MORNING

George is up on the roof, hacking through the shingles and

beams with a chain saw.  A huge dumpster set on the lawn

receives only about half the throws George makes.  Sam is

near the ocean in a chaise lounge, listening to music through

his portable CD player.

There's no chance he's been heard.  TOM and BARBARA, two

older neighbors of George's nearing home from a walk, stop on

the driveway - both look pleased.

Barbara appears surprised as George turns to face them - she

obviously didn't realize he was the one up on the roof doing

the demolition.

Tom and Barbara react by trying not to react.

Tom and Barbara step back and walk away.  George heads to the

ladder and climbs down.

ANOTHER VIEW

Sam is grooving to the music with his eyes closed as George's

hand, filled with a gob of sunscreen, plops onto Sam's

stomach.  Sam bolts up from the chaise lounge in a rage.

Alyssa walks across her lawn to the feuding family.  George

holds out the bottle of sun lotion to Alyssa.

George walks back to the ladder and up onto the roof as

Alyssa and Sam stare at one another.

Sam reaches out for the lotion, but Alyssa hides the bottle.

Sam thinks about it for a second before shaking his head no.

George is back with the chain saw, hacking away at the roof.

Sam is hesitant as he lies down on his stomach.  Alyssa

kneels and squeezes lotion on his back.  She works it in,

starting at his neck, working her way down to his pants.  She

squirts Sam's arm and as she rubs close to his pit, he

squirms.

Alyssa grabs under his armpits and tickles him.  Sam yelps

and rises onto his elbows as Josh roars by the shack in his

Porsche.

Sam is disappointed as Alyssa stands to leave.

Alyssa walks to the shack and waves goodbye to George.

George waves her off.  Sam curls onto his side as he watches

Alyssa run across the lawn to Josh.

Sam appears irritated as he stands and walks into the garage.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

Sam glances out the window to check on his father, then

quickly rummages through every drawer and cabinet looking for

what he finds: a prescription bottle.  It's Vicodin.  He

checks on his dad through the window again, then opens the

bottle and takes out five pills.  He fills a glass with water

and swallows two, saving three for later.  He sets the bottle

back where he found it before he drops on the bed with a

grin.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - AFTERNOON

Guster is in a full out run for a rubber ball.  Sam is

shirted, sitting at the patio table.  With the ball gladly

returned, Sam tosses it again.  George walks out juggling two

plates of sandwiches and two Cokes and sits down.

Sam picks up the sandwich, examines it and sets it back down

on the plate.

George takes a bite of his sandwich before responding.

George tightens his face and waves his hand in front of his

nose.  Sam stares at his father.  A black Range Rover pulls

to a stop and Robin steps out with a pizza box in her hands.

As Robin walks up the drive, Sam picks up the turkey sandwich

and starts eating.  George glances at Sam as Robin sets the

box on the table and sits down.

Robin focuses on the nearly roofless shack.  Guster walks to

the table and sits down by Robin, ready to beg.

George sets his sandwich down.

George opens the box and pulls out a slice.  Sam appears

disinterested as George starts in on the slice of pizza.

Sam shrugs off his mother, looking away.  Robin nods and

grabs a piece for herself.

George responds with a pleasant face; he's not going to

explain his weight loss right now.

Robin sets her slice of pizza down as she studies George.

George nods.  Though it may appear that Sam isn't interested

in the conversation, his ears are perked.

George turns to Sam, who's caught staring at his father.

Robin inexplicably starts to cry.  She instantly tries to

take it back, pressing her hand to her mouth, wiping her

eyes, but whatever emotion has her, has her good.  Both

George and Sam are confused and concerned.

She stands and backs away from the table.

Robin wipes her eyes again as she climbs into her car and

drives off.  Sam and George face one another.

Sam sets his sandwich down and grabs a slice of pizza as he

stands.  He walks for a few feet, stops and turns around.

He doesn't wait for an answer; as he walks away, Guster

follows.  George takes Robin's slice of pizza and drops it on

the cement; that's all it takes to turn Guster around.

INT. ROBIN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Robin is sitting alone at the table, doing nothing.  The TV

is on loud in another room.  Adam walks into the room in his

pajamas.  He sits down across from his mother at the table.

Robin smiles at him.  He smiles back as he scoots his chair

closer to the table and extends his arms straight out across

the top.  Robin extends her arms and they lock hands near the

middle.  Without a word, they hold hands.  Adam lets go and

climbs on top of the table, scoots across it with a kiss for

his mother before he's gone, sliding off the table on his

rear and running back to the TV.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

George is on the patio, bending a thin piece of copper

tubing.  Sam storms out of the garage, fuming.

Sam screws his face down - huh?

George finishes bending the copper into a circle.  He stands

and holds the copper circle out for proof of privacy.

Sam dismisses his father with a shake of his head.  He heads

back into the garage.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

Sam quickly heads to where George's prescription bottle was

hidden under a pile of underwear.  He steals two more pills

and swallows them before grabbing a towel and walking out.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

Sam stomps down the driveway and across the grass to Alyssa's

house.  George walks around to the back of his garage with

the rounded copper tubing.

EXT. ALYSSA'S HOUSE - EVENING

Sam is standing on the porch with his towel and clean

clothes.  Colleen answers the door.

Sam nods and steps back as he prepares to leave.

Colleen takes Sam by the arm and nudges him into the house.

INT. ALYSSA'S ROOM - EVENING

Sam is slowly making his way around the room, taking note of

everything: some dried flowers; a yearbook; a cabinet full of

CD's; dirty clothes stuffed in a hamper.  He walks into the

bathroom before walking back out and making one more round.

INT. ROBIN'S FAMILY ROOM - EVENING

Robin is sitting between her sons on the sofa, watching a

movie.  Peter enters the room, carrying his jacket.

Robin focuses on her husband, but the boys are riveted to the

television.

Robin stands as Adam and Ryan try to hold her down.

Robin walks into the kitchen without responding.

INT. ALYSSA'S BATHROOM - EVENING

Sam's in the shower, obscured by the sandblasted glass.

Sam bumps an elbow against the glass as he opens the shower

door enough to look out.  Josh is sitting up on the marble

countertop.

Josh holds up a tiny screwdriver.

Sam waits a beat before closing the shower door.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

The round copper tube is braced and nailed to the side of the

garage; on it hangs a shower curtain.  George is making

noises inside the curtain as he showers.

George pulls back the shower curtains just enough to see Kurt

standing by in his police uniform.

George is shivering as he closes the curtain back up.

Without warning, the copper tubing holding the hanging

curtain falls to the ground.  George turns the water off and

grabs a towel.  Unfortunately, his ass is not what the towel

covers.

INT. ALYSSA'S FAMILY ROOM - EVENING

Alyssa and Colleen are curled up on the sofa as Josh and Sam

stick their heads in to say goodbye.

Alyssa holds up a huge bowl of popcorn and the DVD case.

The only thing keeping Sam from staying is Josh, who jerks

him out by the shirt.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

With Kurt in the only chair, George hands him a cup of coffee

and sits down on the pullout sofa, which is pulled out.

Sam rushes in and grabs a sweater before starting out.

Sam stops at the door and waits impatiently.

Sam is gone in a flash.  Kurt studies George for a second.

Kurt nods; agreed, he's not.

INT. ROBIN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Robin arranges an attractive plate of food, which she sticks

in the microwave.  Peter walks in wearing different clothes

but the same personality.

He sits down at the table, opening up a newspaper as Robin

stares at him.

Peter glances up from the paper, focusing on Robin.

The answer bothers Robin enough that Peter can't concentrate

back on the paper.

Robin walks out of the kitchen.  Peter folds the paper and

shoves it across the granite counter.

INT. JOSH'S PORSCHE - NIGHT

Sam and Josh are parked on a street that overlooks the Valley

East of Laguna Beach.  They share a joint as Josh explains

the specifics of the job.

Sam hands the joint to Josh.

A black Mercedes Benz pulls to a stop a ways down the street.

Josh hands Sam a cell phone.

Sam is scared and it shows.

Josh pulls a baggie of grass and holds it out for Sam, who

takes it and stuffs it in his pants pocket.

Josh hands Sam the joint.

Sam is quick to inhale, but slow to get out.  Josh takes the

joint and Sam steps out.  He walks slowly to the Mercedes,

opens the door and climbs in.  Josh turns the CD on to

Guster's "ALL THE WAY UP TO HEAVEN."  Sam closes the door to

the Mercedes.  'He said to only look up, he said to never

look down, down is where we came from...' It's an odd song

sung in a happy tempo; a whistling refrain overtakes the

lyrics as Josh inhales.  'He said to hope for the best and

take a load off my chest.  Soon, I could be happy, and go all

the way up to heaven and go all the way back home.'

With the music loud, Josh misses the police car as it stops

behind him without the lights.  Too late for a getaway, he

fumbles for his cell phone and tosses the joint out the open

window.  The OFFICER approaches the Porsche with his hand on

his gun.

Josh furtively presses send on his cell phone as he faces the

officer with a guilty face.

'He said I might need his help, no one gets high on

themselves.  I just seem so lonely; he's just trying to be

nice and spread around his advice.  I could be happy...'

As the music stops, the door to the Mercedes opens and Sam

hops out with his pants around his ankles.  The officer

notices and walks towards the Mercedes.  The parking lights

flash red as the car starts and flees the scene.  Sam yanks

up his pants and leaps down the hillside, falling and rolling

in the brush as the officer yells for him to stop.  Josh

starts his car, but the officer dissuades him from leaving by

removing his gun.  Josh turns off the engine.

Before Josh can feign innocence again, the brush starts to

smolder.  Busted.

EXT. HILLSIDE - NIGHT

Sam is spotted with weeds and dirt as he continues his way

down the steep hillside holding up his pants.  After he's

sure he's safe, he sits down and rests his head in his hands.

He starts to shake, frightened by his actions.  He drops onto

his back, buttons and zips his pants as he starts to cry.

Slowly, he stops crying, but keeps staring up at the sky,

which is loaded with stars and a full moon.  Mesmerized by

the brilliant night, Sam can't stop staring.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - MORNING

George is removing the last of the windows, carefully prying

it out of the casement as Robin pulls up in her Range Rover.

She steps out dressed in Levi's, boots and a t-shirt,

carrying a large bag.

She smiles and walks toward George, dropping the food sack on

the patio table.

George isn't quite sure how to take her comment.  Finally, he

points to the Garage.

George stares at Robin for a second before he nods.

It takes Robin a second to understand he's saying he loved

her when they married.

Robin almost smiles; George confessing love ten years dead.

Robin glances around, assessing the best use of her time.

Robin picks up a pile of splintered board and tosses them in

the garbage bin.  George nods...he's not.

LATER

Robin and George carry a twelve-foot beam from inside the

shack and set it down on cinder blocks.  Both look exhausted

as they head back in for another beam.  Sam saunters out of

the garage in shorts, sits down on the patio chair and opens

the sack his mother had packed for lunch.  He pulls out a

peanut butter and jelly sandwich and starts eating as George

and Robin emerge from the shack with another beam.

Robin and George set the beam down and turn to Sam as they

both wipe sweat off their faces.  Sam chews his sandwich,

ignoring them both.

Robin walks close to Sam, trying to capture his attention.

Sam glances up at his mother, just long enough to let her

know he hates her, then drops the sandwich and walks back

into the garage.  A city inspector's car pulls to a stop on

the street and BOB LARSON steps out with a clipboard.  Robin

passes him as she walks back to her Range Rover.

Bob and George shake hands as Robin drives off.

Sam walks out of the garage in long pants and a shirt.

George grabs his chain saw and walks to the garage with Sam

and Bob in tow.

INT. GARAGE - AFTERNOON

George walks to an armoire and empties it.  He grabs a hammer

and bangs, pries and pulls the back off, then dumps the

cabinet onto the floor.

George yanks the chain saw to a roar and fashions an oval cut

a few feet deep on the cabinet base.  He kills the saw, lifts

the armoire and scoots it in front of the toilet.

Bob grimaces as George opens the armoire, revealing the

toilet inside.

George jerk starts the chain saw again and fashions a small

opening above the toilet, ripping through the studs, wire

mesh, tar paper and stucco - fine dust invades the space like

a storm.  Bob coughs as he writes in his book.  George kills

the chain saw and sets it down as he surveys his work.

Bob seems fairly anxious to conclude his business.

George is staring at Sam.  Bob backs out of the garage.

With Bob gone, George walks to Sam and gets in his face.

Sam slams his fists against his own chest, maddened.

George gently guides Sam back onto the bed.  Sam hops up mad.

George sets Sam back onto the bed, not so gently this time.

Sam is less eager to hop up in defiance.

Sam appears immensely disinterested.

Tears well in George's eyes.  Sam is caught up enough in what

his father has to say that he has to feign his lack of

interest.

George walks to the garage door as he wipes his eyes.  He

stops and turns back around to face Sam.

George walks out leaving Sam on the bed to think.

EXT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK - AFTERNOON

George gathers a pile of splintered boards and tosses them

into the dumpster.  He works while Guster sleeps.

LATER

The sun is fierce, low on the horizon with a heat that

distorts the distance.  George is sweating and shirtless as

Sam walks out of the garage with the gloves on and stands

staring at his father.  After a beat, George notices him.

George nods.  He points out the roofless shell of a shack.

George picks up a sledghammer and hands it to Sam.  Sam

hoists the hefty hammer and with some true effort, slams it

on a sideboard.  He slams again and again as George picks up

a slightly smaller sledgehammer.

George takes a good hard whack at the wall, knocking a huge

hunk of it down.  Sam stops to watch.

George YELLS as he lands the hammer into the wall again.  Sam

is alarmed by his father's blatant rage.

George strikes another blow to the house joined with a MAD

WAIL.  Sam starts low, a whisper of a scream, but quickly

builds, soon rivaling George in volume as he pounds away.

This soul letting, cleansing ritual is both impelling and

frightening to watch.  Tom and Barbara, Colleen and her maid

step out of their houses, drawn and perplexed by the guttural

noise.

INT. RYAN AND ADAM'S ROOM - MORNING

Both boys are asleep as Robin enters and wakes them with the

drop-and-bounce-back-to-your-feet-from-the-mattress method.

They both wake with a groan.  Robin leaps onto Adam and

tickles him to life.

INT. ROBIN'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Robin is quickly finishing a breakfast of oatmeal and fresh

fruit with Adam and Ryan, who are still dressed in pajamas.

Robin stands and dumps her dishes in the sink.

Robin focuses on her sons, both of whom seem willing to work.

Peter walks in, surprised by everyone being up.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - MORNING

George is knocking away the forms used to pour the

foundation.  Sam walks out of the garage with a towel; he

shields his eyes from the morning sun as he watches his

father work.  Without make-up or a nose ring and with the

black dye gone from his hair and the polish from his nails,

Sam is a handsome kid.

George looks happy, laying bare the foundation that will hold

his home.  Sam walks to Alyssa's house, unseen by his father.

INT. ALYSSA'S ENTRY - MORNING

Colleen is walking with Sam toward the stairs.

Sam looks fairly excited as he rushes up the stairs.

INT. ALYSSA'S HALLWAY - MORNING

Sam stops at the door and KNOCKS.

INT. ALYSSA'S ROOM - MORNING

Alyssa is curled up in bed, cuddling a stuffed bear as Sam

walks in and closes the bedroom door behind him.

Alyssa sits up in bed, holding the sheet to her chest.

Sam can't help but like that.

Sam breaks into a full-on smile.

Sam walks into the bathroom; before he closes the door, he

faces Alyssa with another smile - she tosses her bear at him.

EXT. GEORGE'S SHACK - MORNING

George is prying off the last of the boards when he's hit

with a pain that takes him to his knees.  He drops the

crowbar and sits down in the dirt as Guster walks over to

comfort him.  George takes deep breaths and closes his eyes

as he tries to gain control over the pain.

INT. ALYSSA'S BATHROOM - MORNING

The doorknob jiggles, jiggles and turns; Alyssa opens the

door and walks in dressed in a t-shirt and panties.  Once

again Sam jumps and jams his elbow to the frosted glass as he

partially opens the shower door.

Alyssa sets a tiny screwdriver on the vanity.

Sam is anxious.  Alyssa takes off her t-shirt and pulls down

her panties before grabbing a towel; she hands it to Sam as

she forces her way into the shower.  Barely visible through

the frosted glass, Alyssa wets her hair as Sam stares in her

direction.  The towel drops to the tiled floor.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

George is curled up in bed, the prescription bottle and a

glass resting on a table.  He's holding onto his side, still

in some pain.  A HONK gets Guster BARKING outside.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

Ryan and Adam run to Guster with glee as Robin steps out of

the Range Rover with a large covered basket and a boom box.

She sets the basket and radio on the patio table and searches

for George, ending up at the entrance to the garage.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

George has hidden the prescription bottle and is sitting on

the bed as Robin walks in.

Robin sits down on the bed next to George, concerned.

Robin runs her hand down George's spine.

Outside, Adam and Ryan are each calling Guster.

Robin smiles.  With some effort, George stands.

Robin stands and wraps her arm around his waist and he drapes

his arms over her shoulder as they walk out of the garage.

EXT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

Adam runs with abandon to Sam and Alyssa as Robin helps

George to a patio chair.

Adam runs into Sam with a hug, then steps back.

Sam appears awkward as he rests his hand for a second on

Adam's shoulder.

Adam views her suspiciously as they walk across Alyssa's

grass to the patio.

It's clear that Robin is falling in love with her son again.

Alyssa extends her hand to Robin and they shake.

Sam instantly flushes red.

Sam walks to Ryan, who's been standing back from the group.

Sam drapes his arm over Ryan's shoulder and together they

walk to the foundation.

MONTAGE

A BLINK 182 SONG BLASTS from the boom box on the patio table.

Ryan and Adam slather paint remover on five old painted

doors.  They work with gloves and brushes and appear

meticulous in their application.  Alyssa and Sam nail and

bolt the corner posts to the rim joist as Robin and George

work on the stick framed door deck.

While George is moving a little slower than usual, it appears

that the pain is nearly gone.  As the song ends, Robin rushes

toward the radio.

Robin runs to her car and retrieves a few CD's.  She slips

the CD in and we HEAR John Hiat's "DISTANCE."  It's a slow,

soft song that brings a smile to George's face.

Robin's body moves slightly to the music as she smiles.

George grins.  The boys aren't sure what to make of the

advice.  'You are the beautiful love (my lover), I am the

distant shore (so far away).  There is so much to uncover

(love's hiding).  What is this distance for?  What is it for?

Robin glances around for any takers, finally focusing on

George.

Adam walks to his mother and they hold hands as they dance.

Sam sits down to watch.  George wears a smile that wipes the

last of the pain from his face.

Adam backs away and grabs his paintbrush.  Robin stops

dancing as she focuses on George.

Robin waits to see how worse.  George finally walks to her

and takes her in his arms.  He must have been better than

this.  The waltz smooths out as they dance closer, holding

tighter.  "We fill the air with silent stares.  But still, no

one there, we are strangers."  Alyssa decides it's time to

go.

Sam watches Alyssa walk away, but he's quickly drawn back to

his mother and father dancing.  Ryan appears anxious, unsure

of the music and George.

The dance stops.  George lets go of Robin as she focuses on

Ryan.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

Sam is on the pull out bed, listening to music through head

phones.  We HEAR a flush, the armoire doors open and George

walks out of the cabinet, washes his hands, turns off the

light and drops into bed.  A nightlight stuck in a socket

above the bed casts a dull blue light over the room.  Sam

takes the headphones off.  After a long silence:

George turns onto his side to face his son.

George drops back onto his back.  He takes his time to

answer.

George turns onto his side to face Sam again.

Sam turns away from his father and puts his headphones on.

The music bleeds through the headphones in a muffled rumble.

George's voice is soft - there's no chance Sam can hear.

Sam notices his father's mouth moving and takes off the

headphones.

George thinks about that for a second.

Sam slips his headphones back on.  George nods...it is.

EXT. DAVID DOKOS' HOUSE - MORNING

Guster is squatting on the lush lawn of the mansion taking a

dump.  David bursts out from his house, rushes to his black

Mercedes and tries once again to run over Guster.  No such

luck.  Guster moves on to another lawn as Mr. Dokos drops

over the curb and drives off down the street.

EXT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK - AFTERNOON

In the late June afternoon, with a clotted cloud sky, Robin,

Adam, Ryan, Sam, Alyssa and George work at building a house.

Adam and Ryan are staining the interior doors they stripped

days earlier.  George and Sam carry large wood beam to the

foundation and slip it into the pocket mortise of the

laminated beam that spans from pier post to pier post.  Robin

grabs a drill and screws the cast-in tie down to the wood

beam.  Alyssa is sawing a rafter in half as her mother walks

across the grass with a huge basket of food.

LATER

With MUSIC playing in the background, everyone is packed

around the patio table eating pasta and drinking lemonade.

Adam lights up, pleased to be praised.

It's a quick response that draws Robin's attention.  Sam

lightly bops Adam on the head.

Sam starts laughing.  George smiles.  Sam can't stop

laughing.

Sam and George stand at exactly the same time and walk back

to the house.  Without a word, they work together as they

continue to frame the house.  Suddenly George turns back to

the pack of people at the table and loudly proclaims:

That's it.  He goes back to work as Sam glances at him,

amused.  Adam and Ryan are surprised and it shows on their

faces.  Robin smiles.

INT. ROBIN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Robin's in bed reading as Peter emerges from the bathroom in

pajama bottoms.

Robin glances up from her book to Peter's hairy chest.

Peter grabs his pajama top and slips it on as he climbs into

bed.  Robin sets her book down.

Robin takes long enough to think that Peter forges on.

It takes Robin a few seconds to answer.

He closes in on her, kisses her cheek.

Out of reasonable excuses, Robin opts for the truth.

As true as it is, this still irritates Robin.

Peter is intense, close up, not giving her breathing room.

Robin whispers her answer.  Peter pulls away and settles down

on his back.  Robin doesn't move for the longest time.

Finally, she eases onto her back and turns out the light.

Silence finishes the conversation.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

With an extended plate and overhung rafters, the frame takes

its form; rooms are roughed in; windows are framed; two gable

dormers distinguish the common-rafter roof in the front and a

frame for a balcony juts out over the ocean in back.  Robin

and Adam are locking in and hoisting the sheets of plywood on

a pulley system up to Ryan and George, who are stripped down

to shorts - George is thinner than ever.

INT. ALYSSA'S BATHROOM - MORNING

Sam is showering as Alyssa walks in from the bedroom and

joins him; no protest is voiced this time around.

INT. SHOWER - CONTINUOUS

Alyssa smiles at Sam as she grabs a wash cloth and slathers

it with liquid soap.

Alyssa faces Sam as she washes her body with the cloth.

Sam glances down at himself; Alyssa looks too.

They both look up.

Sam stands still, unsure of his next move.

Sam appears shocked she would even ask; he hasn't, but she's

not supposed to know that.  Alyssa makes the move, closes the

distance and kisses him.  Apart, it appears to be something

they enjoyed.  Sam wraps his arms around her, presses himself

against her and kisses her again.

After a few seconds of making out, Sam jerks once, then again

as he backs away.  Alyssa grimaces as she glances down.

Alyssa steps into a corner of the shower as Sam turns around

and rests his forehead on the tile.

EXT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK - AFTERNOON

George and Sam are on ladders, reinforcing a window opening

on the second floor with a 2x4 spline.  Ryan and Adam are

flat on their backs on the grass with Guster between them,

dog-tired.  Robin is at the grill with hamburgers as Alyssa

prepares the table for dinner.

Robin glances up at Alyssa.

Robin is slightly pissed at Alyssa grilling her; she flips

the hamburgers and calls out:

INT. WEBBER'S LIVING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Music is playing softly in the background.  Peter is sitting

alone in a chair with a drink in hand.  After a bit, Lois

walks in holding a can of Pledge and a rag.

Lois nods and walks away.  For all the presence of the room,

Peter looks small and frayed in it - lost in his own house.

EXT. GEORGE'S BEACH SHACK - AFTERNOON

Lunch is over.  Adam is wrestling with Guster on the lawn.

Robin is taking money from her purse as George hands Sam the

keys to his truck.

Sam shrugs, takes the money and keys as Ryan and Adam rush

close to him.

The three boys turn to watch as Alyssa, now dressed in a

dress, walks across the lawn to join them.

It's literally frightening how beautiful Alyssa can look;

with her tan and white dress, Sam shutters.

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - LATE AFTERNOON

Josh is peddling down the highway on his bike, sweating in

the full afternoon sun.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

George is hewing a beam as Robin watches from a chair.

George stops and wipes the sweat from his forehead.

Robin stands and walks to George.

Robin walks away, then back - she's frustrated.

In the distance, on the street, Josh peddles past on his

bike.

Robin nods, gathers her things, walks to her car, climbs in

and drives off.

EXT. COLLEEN'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Colleen is standing in the entry, talking to Josh.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Robin pulls right back to where she was parked and parks

again.  She steps out of the car talking.

Robin sits down, weighted by the reason.

George wants to answer quickly, dismiss the impossible and

move on, but emotion catches him off-guard.  He forces a

smile.

Robin is surprised by the question.  She nods her head.

Robin raises her eyebrows - what a revelation.

Tears well in Robin's eyes as she stands.

George nods - she should.  Robin walks to her car, opens the

door; she faces George before climbing in.  George walks into

the garage.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - LATE AFTERNOON

George rummages through his sock drawer.  Pulls out a folded

sock and opens it - the prescription bottle drops to the

floor.  He fills a glass and swallows three pills.

INT. ROBIN'S ENTRY - LATE AFTERNOON

Robin opens the door and heads straight for the kitchen.

Robin jumps and searches for the voice.  Peter's sitting

alone in the living room.

Robin takes a few steps into the room.

Peter stands and walks to her.  Robin doesn't respond.

Peter takes her hand and kisses her cheek before walking down

the hall.  Robin stands still, trying to assess the exchange.

INT. BEDROOM - EVENING

In a bedroom we don't quite recognize, two people are in the

throes of making love under a silk white sheet.

It's hard to tell whose voice that is - Robin's?

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

George is in bed, awakened by a KNOCK.

Alyssa walks in, closing the door behind her.

George is slightly out of it with oral morphine; he tires to

sit up, but settles for propping up his head.

Alyssa walks over and lies on the bed beside George.

Alyssa leans forward and kisses him; it's a real kiss that

lasts a lot longer than it should.  And when it's over:

They both stare up at the ceiling.

INT. BEDROOM - EVENING

It's the couple making love again; this time we're close

enough to make out Colleen's face underneath Josh, who is

working with speed, if not exact precision.

INT. ROBIN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Peter has changed and is on the bed; his head propped up by

pillows; he stairs blankly at the door.

INT. ROBIN'S LIVING ROOM - EVENING

Robin is sitting alone in the living room, in the same spot

Peter had been sitting earlier.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EVENING

Alyssa and George are still beside each other in bed.

Alyssa sits up in bed.

She stands and grabs his big toe.

Alyssa waves goodbye and leaves.  George is confused by it

all.

INT. COLLEEN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Josh looks as though he's been struck by a hammer as he lay

on his back with his mouth slack.  Under the sheet, low down,

Colleen is swallowing her pride and showing off her

technique.  A sudden blaring noise, AN ALARM, pierces Josh's

throaty groan.  Colleen jumps off the bed, the sheet still

haunting her head.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Alyssa closes the French door she entered through and rushes

to the alarm panel as the siren blares.

INT. COLLEEN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Colleen and Josh are frantically pulling on clothes as the

noise throws them off balance.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

With the ALARM OFF, Alyssa walks to the entry.

INT. COLLEEN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Josh has pulled on his underwear backwards; only speed

counts.

INT. COLLEEN'S ENTRY - EVENING

Alyssa glances around before heading up the stairs.

INT. COLLEEN'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Without a knock, Alyssa opens the door.  The room is empty,

but the bed is messed.

Alyssa walks to the master bath, following the voice.

INT. COLLEEN'S BATHROOM - EVENING

Colleen is standing above Josh, who is bent over on his

knees, with a plunger in the bath.

Josh's face is flushed red and beaded with sweat.

It takes a second for Colleen to realize that Alyssa is

talking about the plumbing.

Colleen is anxious as she rushes out.  Josh stands and wipes

the sweat from his forehead.

Josh fumbles and fidgets, finally finding a way out.

INT. ROBIN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Robin is fixing dinner as we hear the front door open.  Adam

is talking as he rushes into the kitchen.

Ryan enters right behind him.

Robin checks the entry to the kitchen - no Sam.

Robin's face lights up as Sam walks into the kitchen.

Robin opens the oven and shows Sam a platter of lasagna.

Robin turns to Adam, excited at having Sam stay for dinner.

Adam takes off in a run as Sam walks to the sink and washes

his hands before grabbing a stack of plates for dinner.  He

arranges the five on the table and then heads back for

utensils as Adam runs back in.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

Guster's at the door, whining.  George and Sam are asleep.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - MORNING

Colleen is sitting alone at the kitchen table, drinking

coffee as Alyssa walks in.

Colleen is trembling as Alyssa pours herself a big bowl of

Lucky Charms.

Alyssa eats her cereal as Colleen bursts into a confession.

Alyssa looks confused as she swallows her Lucky Charms.

Colleen quickly nods.

Alyssa keeps an eye on her mother as she continues on with

her cereal.

EXT. DOKOS HOUSE - MORNING

Guster is taking a dump on the immaculate lawn.  David Dokos

rushes from the house dressed in a suit and picks up the shit

with a gloved hand and heaves it at Guster as the dog trots

back to safety.  Tom and Barbara, the old early walkers of

the street, stop and watch as David picks up more crap and

tosses it onto George's driveway.  He notices Tom and

Barbara.

Tom and Barbara stay silent as David Dokos walks back into

his house and slams the front door shut.

EXT. PACIFIC COAST HIGHWAY - LATE MORNING

Josh is in eleventh gear on his ten speed peddling like a

demon for the Beck's house.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE MORNING

Robin pulls to a stop and Ryan and Adam run from the Range

Rover to Sam and Alyssa, who are helping an ELECTRICIAN

(DALE) install the outside boxes and sockets.

Sam faces his mother as she walks toward the house.

Robin shakes her head "no" to Sam.  Dale turns to face Adam.

Sam turns back to finish what he was working on as Alyssa

grabs Adam with a hug.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

George is swallowing two pills as Robin knocks on the half

open door, opening it all the way in the process.

Robin walks to George and holds on to his shirt.

She rests the side of her head against his chest.  He kisses

her hair.  Outside, a hammer beats a reminder that they're

not alone.  The ocean drowns the sound long enough for Robin

to kiss George's chin;

and in that instant, the instant where everything but the

touch washes away, George kisses Robin with such punch that

it knocks them onto the bed.  They continue to forget

everything as they roll with the punch.

Sam stops at the jamb of the open door as his mother and

father scramble to their feet from the bed.

As George falters, Robin feels compelled to complete the lie.

George and Robin are flustered, embarrassed by being caught,

something Sam clearly relishes.

Sam laughs, grabs the door and closes it on his parents.

Robin slumps, truly embarrassed.

George touches Robin's chin, draws her head up.  He stares at

her, afraid to say what he needs to say.

Robin furrows her brow, not understanding.  George surrounds

her head with his hands and kisses her forehead.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

Adam and Ryan are helping Dale run the electrical lines;

Alyssa and Sam drill screws into the second story

floorboards.  MUSIC is playing loud on the radio.

ANOTHER VIEW

Josh stops peddling quite a distance from George's house and

gets off to search for Alyssa.  Only seeing Adam, Ryan and

Dale, Josh pulls out his cell and dials.

INT. COLLEEN'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Frustrated and anxious, Colleen slips off the dress she's

wearing and tries another one as the phone RINGS.

EXT. GEORGE'S STREET - MORNING

Josh is standing behind a tree, talking on his cell phone as

he stares at George's house.

He slips the phone back in his pocket, hops back on the bike

and makes a beeline toward Colleen's house.

Busted, Josh has no choice but to join Alyssa.

Alyssa and Sam are leaning out the framed second story

window.

Sam walks away from the window and goes back to work.

Sam sticks his head back out the window.

Josh is fuming as he stares at Sam.

Sam turns away from Josh.  George walks out the garage as he

wipes his eyes.

George walks to Josh and extends his hand.

Adam races to George with a hug - something unexpected.  Adam

rushes back to work as George breaks into a smile.  Alyssa

rushes down the stairs and straight into George's arms.

George is still smiling as he tucks a strand of Alyssa's hair

behind her ear.  Ryan sort of saunters over to George with

his hands sunk deep in his pockets.  Without asking, George

wraps his arms around Ryan with a hug.  Afterward:

Ryan walks back to Adam, who's been standing still,

listening.

George is too quick with his hug.  Josh is stiff as a board.

Sam looks pissed as he walks away from the second story

window and resumes screwing the floorboards.  George sets his

eyes on Dale as he opens his arms wide.

George walks toward Dale with his arms still extended.

Adam and Ryan are excited as George closes the distance.

Finally, Dale drops the harmless wire and takes off in a run.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - LATE MORNING

Colleen is pacing the kitchen in a silky dress we haven't

seen before.  Finally, she grabs the phone.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE MORNING

George is propped up on the chaise lounge next to the patio

table where everyone has dropped their crap.  Sam and Josh

are sheeting the roof with tarpaper.  Robin is still in the

garage.  One of two cell phones on the table begins to RING.

Dale is in the middle of wiring a box.

George picks up the offender, unsure whose phone it is.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

George nearly drops the phone; he sits up straight.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Colleen sits down, panicked.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

George holds the phone out and examines it for a second.

Josh trips, slips and slides off the roof to the ground below

as Alyssa lets out a loud SCREAM.

INT. COLLEEN'S KITCHEN - LATE MORNING

Colleen tosses the receiver as though it were a ball on fire.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MINUTES LATER

Everyone, including Robin, is circled around Josh, who is

sprawled on the ground.

An ambulance is HEARD approaching.  Colleen runs from her

house - she's now dressed more appropriately in Levi's and a

blouse.

Colleen stops a few feet short and covers her mouth with a

trembling hand.

The ambulance silences the siren as it turns onto the cul-de

sac and stops in front of George's house.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - EARLY AFTERNOON

Robin, George and Sam are sitting at the patio table as Ryan

and Adam play catch with Guster.

Neither Robin nor Sam attempts a response.  Finally:

Robin stands.  George stands because Robin's standing.

Without warning, Robin begins to cry again.  Ryan and Adam

stop playing ball.  Sam studies her before finally lowering

his eyes.  With her kids looking on, George stands still,

hesitant to comfort her.  There's a moment where all that

there is, where the only thing seen or heard is Robin's pain.

After an awkward amount of time, she wipes her eyes, wipes

her nose, crosses around the table to Sam and kisses the top

of his head, then his cheek.  Without a word, she walks to

her car and climbs in; Ryan and Adam quickly join her in the

car.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

George is brushing his teeth, dribbling and foaming over the

only sink in the garage.  Sam is propped up in bed with

Guster, dressed on top of the sheets, fingering through a

stack of CD's.  He glances over at his father twice before

speaking.

George spits and rinses, facing Sam as he wipes his mouth.

Sam tries to look slightly less interested than he is by

continuing to flip through the CD's.  George sits down.

This is not easy for George; he fumbles a bit before

answering.

Sam stops flipping though the CD's.

Sam looks somewhat panicked.

This is not easy for George; he fumbles a bit before

answering.

Sam stops flipping through the CD's.

Sam looks somewhat panicked.

George nods his head.

Sam whacks the CD's off his stomach; they scatter across the

floor.  Guster scoots off the bed in a panic.

Sam bounds out of bed in a rage.

Sam storms out of the garage.

INT. COLLEEN'S ENTRY - NIGHT

Colleen pulls a robe around her nightgown as the doorbell

RINGS again and again.  She flips on a light and opens the

door.  Sam backs away from the door as he talks.

Alyssa is leaning over the upstairs railing.  Sam walks up

the stairs as Colleen closes the door.

EXT. BEACH - EARLY MORNING

Sea lions romp on a rock offshore as gulls circle above.  The

sun sheets the morning on the water that's blinding.

INT. ALYSSA'S ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Alyssa is under the covers holding onto Sam, who is still

dressed.  Both are asleep.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - EARLY MORNING

George is in bed in pain.  A prescription bottle is open

beside him and pills are scattered on the sheet.  A KNOCK on

the door forces George to gather the pills and hide the

bottle.

Kurt the cop opens the door dressed in civilian clothes.

EXT. COLLEEN'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Colleen walks out her front door straight to her neighbor's

house.  After a bit of RINGING and a bit of waiting, Tom (of

the walking Tom and Barbara) answers the door in a bathrobe.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE MORNING

Dale is wiring with Adam and Ryan helping.  Kurt, Robin and

Colleen are setting up and sealing the plastic plumbing

pipes.  Two new men (GREG and MIGUEL) are on the roof,

finishing up where Josh fell down.  MUSIC is playing on the

radio.  George is asleep on the chaise lounge.  Alyssa walks

across the grass and stops to stare at George.  Tears well in

her eyes.  Alyssa continues on to the house and walks up the

stairs.

Robin accepts the answer.  Slowly, they all return to work.

MONTAGE

The day is productive as we see the black drainpipes and the

copper water runs coming together like a maze.  The roof is

shingled and the wiring is nearly complete.  Whether awake or

asleep, George spends the day in the chaise lounge.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATER

A city inspector's truck pulls to a stop and Bob Larsen steps

out with a clipboard and a concerned look on his face.

George is dozing on drugs.

Kurt finishes hooking in a plugged tee at a turn and stands.

Frustrated, Kurt glances around at all his good work before

answering.

Bob opens his clipboard and checks a number of items off.

George wakes up and quickly hones in on Bob.

Bob walks toward George as he talks.

George stands, he appears slightly shaky.

George sits back down.  Everyone emerges from the house to

join George and Bob.

Bob nods.

Robin turns and walks back into the house.  Colleen, Alyssa,

Adam and Ryan soon follow.

Robin picks up the hammer and pounds a nail into a piece of

wallboard.  Dale, Miguel, Greg and Kurt walk back to the

house and go back to work.  Bob glances at George who shrugs.

INT. COLLEEN'S FAMILY ROOM - NIGHT

Colleen is watching the news as Alyssa walks in to say

goodnight.

Alyssa shakes her head "no" as Colleen flips on the TV.

Colleen is embarrassed Alyssa knows the truth.

Alyssa walks out.  Colleen curls up and hides clutching

pillows on the couch.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - NIGHT

George is shaking and sweating as he tries to crawl off the

bed to his sock drawer.  Guster wakes up and hops off Sam's

bed to lick George on the face.

George is in real pain as he drops to the floor on his back.

He winces and cries out as he pushes himself forward with his

legs toward the dresser.  George suddenly stops pushing; his

legs slump flat on the concrete floor.  His eyes flutter shut

as Guster continues to lick his face.

INT. ALYSSA'S BATHROOM - MORNING

Alyssa is dressed, combing through wet hair when the sound of

construction distracts her.  She opens her window and sticks

her head out.  Suddenly excited, she pulls her head back in.

INT. ALYSSA'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Sam is in bed as Alyssa speeds out of the bathroom.

Alyssa bolts for the door, but stops short as she faces Sam.

Sam doesn't face her, doesn't even attempt to look up.

Alyssa leaves, closing the door behind her.  Sam stays put.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

Colleen is talking to Tom and Barbara as they stand to the

side of the house where a throng of men assemble the house.

Robin pulls to a stop on the street and Adam and Ryan run out

to gawk at all the workers.

Colleen glances back as Alyssa runs to join the group.

ANOTHER VIEW

Robin walks to the garage door and KNOCKS.  Guster barks.

Robin KNOCKS again before opening the door.

INT. GEORGE'S GARAGE - MORNING

Guster is beside George on the floor.  Robin rushes in and

kneels down.

She presses her hand against George's cheek.

George's eyes flutter open.  Robin leans down and kisses him

on the cheek.  George focuses on Robin; he tries to speak,

stops, and tries again.  Finally, in a weak voice, we hear:

INT. COLLEEN'S ENTRY - MORNING

Alyssa bursts into the house and rushes up the stairs.

INT. ALYSSA'S ROOM - MORNING

Sam is sitting on the edge of the bed as Alyssa enters.

Sam doesn't respond.

Alyssa holds out her hand as we HEAR the ambulance approach.

Sam is nearly pleading, frightened to move.  Alyssa walks

out.  The siren stops.  The front door closes.  Sam sits

still.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

The house is coming together incredibly fast with all the

workers.  Tom and Barbara are supervising the crew.  David

Dokos whips around the corner in his black Mercedes and parks

in his driveway, rushing over as he yells.

David is searching for George, finally settling for Tom.

Tom's face is flushed; Barbara calms him by grabbing his arm.

David Dokos stomps his feet and thrusts his fist into the

air, as a child might if he were overreacting.

Tom and Barbara simply stare at him in disbelief.  David

walks back to his house.  Tom turns to his wife.

Tom rolls up his sleeves and walks toward the house to help.

INT. COLLEEN'S ENTRY - EVENING

Colleen and Alyssa walk into the house listless - both look

tired and sad.

INT. ALYSSA'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Alyssa enters the room, walks into the bathroom.  Sam is

gone.

INT. ROBIN'S FAMILY ROOM - EVENING

Adam and Ryan are sitting next to each other on the floor

subdued, tossing a ball to Guster.  The kitchen door opens

and Peter walks into the family room.  Adam is the first to

notice but the last to react.  Ryan stands as Guster barks.

Peter has a growth of beard and is dressed in Levi's and a

knit shirt - he doesn't look like himself.

Peter nods.

Ryan is tough - not giving an inch.  Peter stares at his

sons, ashamed that the question could be asked.  Adam stands

and walks to this father, takes his hand.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - EVENING

George is asleep, looking dead with tubes in his arms.  We

HEAR a bit of the song by Warren Zevon, "MY SHIT'S FUCKED

UP."  'Well, I went to the doctor/I said 'I'm feeling kind of

rough'/He said, 'I'll break it to you, son, your shit's

fucked up.'

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - EVENING

Sam is alone on the roof in the fading light, stringing party

lights over the shingles and under the eves.

INT. ROBIN'S FAMILY ROOM - EVENING

Robin couldn't look worse as she walks down the hall to the

family room with Ryan.  Peter is standing alone.  Ryan joins

Adam on the floor with Guster.  Robin stops and stands ten

feet from Peter.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - EVENING

The sun has set as Sam stands at the edge of the cliff trying

to garner the courage to jump.  After the sound of a wave

crashing against the cliff, Sam closes his eyes and leaps off

the edge of the earth.

INT. ALYSSA'S ROOM - EVENING

Alyssa is sitting on the edge of her bed as Colleen stops

beside the open door.

Alyssa shakes her head "no".  Colleen walks into the room and

sits down beside her daughter.  Alyssa rests her head on her

mother's shoulder.

INT. RESTAURANT - EVENING

Robin, Peter, Ryan and Adam are in the middle of dinner as

Adam excitedly tries to explain all that he and his brother

have accomplished.

Peter glances at Robin.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Sam is still wet as he walks down the hall.  We HEAR more of

the Warren Zevon song. 'I had a dream/Ah, shucks, oh,

well/Now it's all fucked up/It's shot to hell.'

INT. GEORGE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Sam enters the room as a NURSE scurries to catch up.

Sam is staring at George, who is either asleep or

unconscious.  The nurse finally relents and walks out.  Sam

sits in a chair beside the bed and begins to cry.  Slowly,

George's arm slides out beyond the railing of the bed, his

hand open.  Sam does his best to stop crying.

Sam pulls out a pair of sunglasses from his shirt pocket.

George shakes death and drugs away as he manages to open his

eyes.

Sam gently slides the sunglasses over his father's eyes; he

rushes to the window and pulls the curtains back.

Sam walks back to the bed and pulls it toward the window,

stretching the cords and tubes to their limit.  He grabs the

remote and raises George's head.  Off in the distance,

against the backdrop of an endless black ocean, George's

house is seemingly on fire with lights.  Pain can't stop a

smile.

George takes hold of Sam's hand with his own.  They continue

to stare at the lit house holding hands.

INT. ROBIN'S ENTRY - NIGHT

The door opens and Robin, Adam, Ryan and Peter are greeted by

Guster, who bounces around like a wired rabbit.

Adam runs to Robin for a kiss, then grabs Peter with a hug.

Adam runs up the stairs, Guster right on his heels.  Ryan is

staring at his father.

Robin sneaks a quick kiss on Ryan's cheek as he heads for the

stairs.  After he's gone, Robin turns back to Peter.

Peter nods, something he already knows.

Robin nods.  There's a moment where it's clear that Peter

doesn't want to leave and Robin doesn't want him to leave,

but after the moment passes, Peter walks out and Robin sits

down at the base of the stairs.

INT. ALYSSA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Colleen and Alyssa are asleep together on the bed.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Sam is up on a ladder, pounding copper nails into cedar

shingles that face the house.  Alyssa runs across the grass.

Sam steps off the ladder.  Alyssa wraps her arms around him.

Sam removes sleepy bugs from Alyssa's eyes before he kisses

her.  A police car stops in front of the house and Kurt steps

out.  Alyssa and Sam turn to face him.

Before Kurt can answer, David Dokos storms out of his house

and trudges toward them talking.

As Sam is staring at David Dokos, a hint of recognition

crosses his face.

A wave of fear rushes through David Dokos that's instantly

visible.

Sam figures out why we knows David Dokos - from the aborted

blowjob in the black Mercedes.

David starts to leave, but Sam stops him with:

David's face is sheet white as he forces himself back around.

David Dokos stares at Sam for a long time before glancing at

Kurt and his police uniform for just a second.

Sam walks back to the ladder and hammer, leaving Kurt and

Alyssa confounded.  David takes a step back.

Sam pounds in another shingle as David walks quickly back to

his house.

INT. GEORGE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - MORNING

George is unconscious as Robin enters and sits down beside

him with a video camera.

Robin adjusts the viewfinder and presses play on the camera.

George doesn't wake up.  On the tiny screen, we see a younger

George in the ocean, his arms wrapped around six-year old

Sam; he shields Sam from the waves and kisses his son's hair.

Robin rests the camera on the bed as the video continues to

play.  She takes hold of George's hand and begins to weep as

she presses her head on his chest.  An envelope with Robin

and Sam's name on it rests on the nightstand beside the bed.

INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

Twenty men along with Tom and Barbara, Alyssa and Colleen,

Sam and David Dokos are painting; installing windows, floors

or cabinets as the house begins to take its final shape.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

Peter stops and steps out of his car as Adam and Ryan race

for the house.

Sam walks out the front door.

Adam and Ryan walk into the house as Sam focuses on Peter,

who keeps his distance.

Peter glances down at his work clothes.

Peter nods, hesitates for a moment before walking up the

driveway to Sam.

INT. GEORGE'S HOSPITAL ROOM - AFTERNOON

George's bed is empty, stripped of everything.  Robin is

still sitting in a chair beside the bed, a letter resting on

her lap.  A NURSE stops at the door.

Robin shakes her head "no".  The nurse moves on.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

From the outside, the house is finished: windows in, doors

on, roof shingled.  The sun drops behind the house, causing a

halo of bright light to envelop it.

INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Most of the workers have gone home, because most of the work

is done.  All the floor are hand-scrapped cherry; huge beams

and wood planks lend a strength to the ceiling.  The kitchen

cabinets are in; the bathrooms are complete.  Sam, Ryan,

Alyssa, Adam and Peter are the only ones left.  Outside, we

hear a car pull to a stop.

Adam and Ryan run down the stairs.  Peter stops cleaning a

brush and walks to the window as Sam stands still.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Adam runs to Robin and meets her mid-yard with a hug.

Adam and Robin are staring at the house.  Ryan can see the

strain on his mother's face.

All Robin can do is shake her head "no".

INT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Sam backs away from the window.  Peter turns to face him.

Standing straight as he can, being as brave as he can, tears

well in Sam's eyes as he softly shakes.  Peter walks to Sam

and wraps his arms around him.

Sam clings to Peter, completely lost in sorrow.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Adam and Ryan have their arms wrapped around their mother as

we pull back and watch the sun set the sky off in dazzling

hues of orange and red.

INT. RANGE ROVER - ONE WEEK LATER

Robin is driving with Sam beside her in a low-middle income

neighborhood in Santa Ana.  Sam is holding the letter.

It's clear to see that Robin's proud of Sam's decision.  She

checks an address on a piece of paper and pulls to a stop.

Sam steps out of the car, holding the letter.

EXT. SANTA ANA APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING

Sam is shaking slightly as he walks up the cracked concrete

walk to the door.  He RINGS the bell.

A WOMAN in her mid-twenties opens the door in her wheelchair.

Sam is very nervous as he reaches in his pocket and pulls out

a set of keys.

The woman is confused as Sam holds out the keys.

EXT. GEORGE'S HOUSE - MORNING

The house is majestic in its setting among the trees and

grass, on the jagged just of rock that accepts the constant

crash of ocean against it with a solid permanence.  This is

where, if you were a house, you would want to be built.

