FADE IN: TITLES APPEAR ON BLACK B.G.

TITLES END and we WIDEN to reveal that the black b.g. is

actually the sludge-clogged surface of the Cuyahoga River.

We TILT UP from the river to reveal the city of Cleveland,

then follow with a series of shots of Cleveland landmarks.

INT. THE INJUN DINER - DAY

Three men in Cleveland Indian baseball caps sit at the

counter. BOBBY JAMES, 22-year-old grad student, VIC BOLITO,

30-year-old telephone worker, and JOHNNY WYNN, 45-year-old

house painter. THELMA GORDON, 65-year-old waitress, delivers

their breakfast.

The other two shake their heads in contemplation of this

sorry fact.

INT. MEN'S CLUB - DAY

A 45-year-old BUSINESS EXECUTIVE is talking to a fellow club

member over lunch.

EXT. CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY

Two LONGSHOREMEN are talking while they unload a freighter.

EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

Down on the field, two KOREAN GROUNDSKEEPERS speak Korean as

they resod the outfield.

We TILT UP from the field to a glass-enclosed area on the

third deck.

INT. GLASS-ENCLOSED AREA - DAY

It's the Cleveland Indians' conference room. Three men are

seated around the table; CHARLIE DONOVAN. the manager, PHIL

BUTLER, public relations head, JERRY SIMMONS, operations

director and LYLE MATTHEWS director of player personnel

Donovan taps his pencil impatiently, obviously waiting for

somebody.

As Butler tries to figure out what a guava facial is, the

conference room doors swing open and a muscular MALE SECRETARY-

BODYGUARD enters, clearing the way for MRS. RACHEL PHELPS, a

flashy, striking woman in her early forties. Despite the

designer clothes she favors, there is the hint of something

less refined about her. She carries a Pekinese dog, CHA-CHA

on her left hip.

The men applaud, but their hearts are barely in it. The

Secretary-Bodyguard pulls out a chair at the head of the

table and Rachel sits.

Several eyes roll up around the room.

Rachel crumbles the paper and throws it away.

This causes a few nervous glances in the room.

Donovan, Butler and Simmons pour over the list.

Rachel sticks out her hand. Donovan shakes it somewhat feebly,

bewildered by this whole development.

With that, Rachel gets up and breezes out of the room with

her entourage, leaving Donovan and the others dumbfounded.

INT. DONOVAN'S NEW OFFICE - DAY

Donovan, carrying a boxful of belongings under each arm,

pushes open the door of his new office and walks inside. The

basic outfitting is masculine enough, but the room is full

of feminine little accents; flowers in vases, porcelain desk

accessories etc. Donovan is slightly overwhelmed. Suddenly,

there's a voice at the door.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. RACHEL'S OFFICE - DAY

Donovan is ushered in by Rachel's Male Secretary. Donovan

carries his player roster with him.

INT. RACHEL'S OFFICE - DAY CONT

This is hardly an impressive credential to Donovan.

Rachel bends down to give her dog, Cha-Cha, a little love

pat, while Donovan tries to contain his disgust.

Donovan looks at it, the paragraph highlighted in yellow.

Donovan is stunned. He casts around helplessly for some

response.

On Donovan's sunken face, we go to:

EXT. SHABBY MEXICAN HOTEL - MORNING

On a stretch of deserted Mexican highway. OVER we hear a

telephone RING.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - MORNING

The room is a total mess. The back door is off its hinges

and a few chickens have wandered in. As they peck around the

debris, we PAN the room, taking in beer cans, food wrappers

and finally a trail of hastily discarded clothes, both male

and female.

We reach the bed and find our hero, JAKE TAYLOR, 35, and

with a couple days growth of stubble, passed out on his face.

Sprawled across him asleep is a MEXICAN WOMAN in her late

twenties. She's not great looking, but at least she's

overweight. Taylor's hand fumbles to the RINGING telephone.

It's Charlie Donovan calling from his office in Cleveland.

We CUT BACK AND FORTH between the two as we will in subsequent

phone scenes.

Taylor struggles to get a look up at the girl on top of him.

Donovan is baffled by this whole line of conversation.

Taylor hangs up, leaving Donovan staring into his phone.

Taylor looks up to see TOLBERT standing in the doorway.

On Taylor's reaction, we...

INT. TOLEDO TIRE STORE - DAY

We PICK UP LOU BROWN, a portly man in his early fifties,

making his way to his glass-partitioned office.

For a moment there's silence on the line, then:

Brown clicks off. Donovan puts his head down on his desk.

INT. CHARLIE DONOVAN'S OFFICE - DAY

Donovan's on the phone to another player.

RICKY VAUGHN

Good-looking, muscular, 19-year-old. Sleeveless black T-shirt.

Talking on a wall phone in a nondescript room.

Vaughn has been working, sweating slightly. He takes off his

cap to mop his brow -- revealing a RADICAL HAIRCUT with

PIGTAIL. He sports a RING in his left ear.

LONG SHOT - VAUGHN

In the b.g., Vaughn is on the phone. In the f.g., we see

security bars. Vaughn's in a Youth Authority prison.

INT. DONOVAN'S OFFICE - DAY

On the speaker again to Lou Brown. Rachel watches, impatient

for him to close the deal.

Rachel rubs her fingers together, making the money sign to

Donovan.

Brown hangs up.

EXT. MEXICAN LEAGUE BALL PARK - DAY

This one's a dandy. The left field wall is a 20-foot high,

solid granite outcropping. A final out is made and the teams

change over.

TAYLOR

returning to the dugout at the end of the inning, wondering

what the hell he's doin' here.

Taylor goes to the phone in the clubhouse tunnel.

Donovan hangs up. Taylor shoots a fist in the air, and we...

TAYLOR

approaching his MANAGER.

TAYLOR

coming out of the stadium, his bats and gloves over his

shoulder. He has on his spikes and a pair of boxer shorts.

INT. BEAT-UP MEXICAN BUS - DAY

Taylor sits in the back seat. He has six Coke bottles filled

with sand strapped to his ankles. He lifts his legs up and

down to strengthen his muscles.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. INDIANS' TRAINING CAMP PRACTICE FIELD - DAY

Donovan, Brown and two of his coaches, PEPPER LEACH (pitching)

and DUKE TEMPLE (hitting) are on the field, witnessing the

arrival of their "troops." First to arrive is:

TAYLOR

He gets out of a taxi and goes to the trunk to get his bats

and luggage.

Brown turns around from a conversation with Temple.

INT. PLAYER'S BARRACKS - DAY

Like an Army barracks. Rows of bunk beds seperated by lockers.

Taylor walks in with Temple, the hitting instructor.

BROWN, PEPPER, TEMPLE AND DONOVAN

back at the field, supervising the arrival of more players.

The first is a tall, muscular Latin, PEDRO CERRANO, dressed

in black from head to toe. He arrives on foot, carrying a

black suitcase and pulling a black bat case on wheels. He

looks like a gunfighter coming into Dodge.

BLACK AND TAN ROLLS-ROYCE

pulling into the parking lot. Out steps RODGER DORN, high-

priced third baseman. Brown eyes him with vague disapproval.

Dorn pulls his golf clubs out of the car.

WILLIE HAYES

a 22-year-old black, pulling up in a '72 VW Beetle which

he's got a Cadillac grille on. He steps out in his shades

and sharkskin suit.

Hayes strolls up and introduces himself.

Hayes hustles off toward his car.

A motorcycle pulls to a stop in the lot, diverting everyone's

attention from Hayes.

Off steps Ricky Vaughn, a hefty bag over his shoulder. He's

still sporting his radical do.

Donovan is speechless. Brown breaks into a small smile. Yes,

sir, this is his kinda team.

INT. PLAYERS' BARRACKS

Taylor is putting his stuff away in a locker. Vaughn enters

the barracks and immediately draws the attention of Dorn.

Vaughn whips a hard glance at Dorn, but keeps on walking,

making his way along the bunks looking for his assigned bed.

It's the one above Taylor. Vaughn unloads his duffel bag in

silence.

Vaughn shakes it and nods. Says nothing.

The conversation is interrupted by the arrival of Hayes.

Hayes doesn't quite know what to make of Vaughn.

On Hayes' look, we...

INT. THE BARRACKS - NIGHT

It's dark. Everyone's asleep. Three SECURITY GUARDS with

flashlights come down to the top bunk where Hayes is sleeping.

They lift the bunk out of its slots and carry it out the

door, Hayes still asleep on it.

INT. LOCKER ROOM - MORNING

The players are dressing out in their uniforms for the first

day of practice. Vaughn goes in his locker and finds that a

slit has been cut in the back of his cap to accommodate his

pigtail. Suppressed laughs are heard from several corners of

the locker room.

INT. CLUBHOUSE - MORNING

Brown is addressing his troops before the first workout.

On a locker room full of uneasy faces, we...

EXT. PRACTICE FIELD PARKING LOT - MORNING

Hayes' cot is sitting in the lot, just outside the fence,

his suitcase set down next to it. Hayes is still asleep, dew

on his forehead. Wakened by the noise of activity on the

field, he sits up with a start.

THE PRACTICE FIELD

We pick up Taylor sprinting his ass off in a 100-yard time

trial, staggering across the finish line 10 feet behind

Cerrano.

As Taylor tries to catch his breath, Dorn and a relief pitcher

named Gant approach the starting line for the next trial.

HAYES

looking through the chain-link fence surrounding the field.

DORN AND GENTRY AGAIN

Temple brings them to their marks and blows his whistle.

Dorn and Gentry take off.

Suddenly Hayes, in his pajamas and bare feet comes streaking

toward the starting line in hot pursuit. Dorn and Gentry a

good 10-yard lead, but Hayes is coming like a bullet. We go

to SLOW MOTION as Hayes draws even at the 80-yard mark and

blasts on by to win by five. This kid is fast. Brown and

Pepper give each other the "Who was that Masked Man" look.

EXT. THE PRACTICE FIELD - LONG SHOT - DAY

The players are spread out on the field doing calisthenics,

counting off in unison.

TAYLOR

struggling through a series of pushups. He glances over in

disbelief at Vaughn and Cerrano, who are doing them like

pistons in competition with each other. Cerrano even starts

doing them one-handed.

Hayes isn't doing them at all; merely pulling his head up

and down while leaving his body on the ground.

EXT. THE BATTING CAGE - DAY

Taylor is crouched behind the plate, warming up his arm.

Catching pitches and throwing them half-speed down to second.

Brown drifts over.

Taylor smiles and fires one full-speed down to second. It

bounces two feet in front of the bag.

EXT. BATTING CAGE - DAY

Brown is watching batting practice.

Hayes steps into the cage and begins a preparatory ritual

worthy of Babe Ruth -- rubbing dirt on his hands, stretching,

knocking dirt off his spikes, twirling the bat, etc. A real

slugger's routine.

Hayes gets in and takes his stance. On the first pitch, he

takes a mighty cut and hits a pop-fly to the pitcher's mound.

We take QUICK CUTS of the next three pitches. Hayes takes

prodigious swings at all of them, producing three more pop-

ups, none out of the infield. Brown calls a halt.

The next pitch comes in. Hayes swings and pops it up.

As he gets down to do his twenty, Brown turns to Temple.

BROWN AND PEPPER

coming over to where Vaughn is tossing some casual warm-up

pitches to Jake.

Brown and Pepper stand behind Taylor for a better view. Vaughn

goes into his wind-up and fires a screaming fast ball that

Taylor has no chance to get out of his crouch to catch. The

ball rockets an inch over Brown's head, and slams into the

backstop.

Brown stands frozen a second, contemplating his brush with

eternity, then turns to Pepper.

Brown turns to the Clubhouse Man who's holding a speed gun.

RODGER DORN

fielding grounders at third base. He plays them off to his

left side a bit, almost as if he's afraid to get bit by them.

Brown strikes an effeminate fielding position, like Betty

Grable shying from a mouse. Dorn burns.

PEDRO CERRANO

in the batting cage, knocking the cover off pitch after pitch

with his black bat.

Harris winds and throws a fair-to-middlin' curve ball. Cerrano

swings and misses it a foot.

Dorn approaches Brown at the cage.

Everyone around the batting cage has stopped what they're

doing to see how Brown will react. Brown looks at the contract

a second, then drops it on the ground, unzips his fly, and

gives it a golden shower. On Dorn's stunned face, we...

DORN

doing sit-ups in the infield. Vaughn walks by and smiles.

LONGSHOT - PRACTICE FIELD

Practically every member of the team is doing penalty

calisthenics somewhere on the field.

INT. THE LOCKER ROOM - AFTERNOON

Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn drag in, looking beat from the day's

workout.

Vaughn's hand freezes on his locker latch, afraid to open it

now.

Vaughn is still not so sure. He sits down on his locker stool

and glances over toward STEVE HARRIS a starting pitcher,

whose locker is adjacent. As Harris takes off his jersey we

see three SPLOTCHES OF GREASY SUBSTANCES on his chest, just

inside the button line.

Vaughn can't believe this.

Vaughn just looks at him incredulous.

TAYLOR AND CARRANO

Taylor is undressing, but his attention is diverted by Cerrano

whose stall is right next to him. Cerrano has set up an altar

in his locker. In front of his bats, which are lined up like

sentinels, is a table covered with pictures of baseball

players, figurines of saints, several lit candles and, in

the middle, a primitive fetish doll with a cigar in its mouth.

Cerrano has drawn some magic signs on his bats. He finishes

an incantation and then lights the cigar on the fetish doll.

Cerrano pours some gin in a small cup and puts it next to

the fetish doll. Harris has been listening to all this.

Cerrano grabs a towel to head for the showers.

Cerrano closes his locker and goes off to the showers, leaving

everyone to wonder just how bad.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

MONTAGE SEQUENCE

compressing and detailing the progress of spring training.

We see:

A) Vaughn on the pitcher's mound. A tin replica of a batter

has been set up at home plate and rope stretched across the

plate to delineate the strike zone. Vaughn fires a pitch and

hits the tin batter in the hip, leaving a dent in him.

B) Cerrano in the batting cage, flailing away in futility at

several curve balls.

C) HAYES

doing push-ups at night. He's the only one left on the field,

except Temple, who supervises.

D) TAYLOR

doing the "scramble" drill -- blocking down balls purposely

thrown in the dirt, one after another. When it ends, he can

hardly get to his feet.

E) CERRANO

waving a ten-foot BOA CONSTRICTOR in the sign of the cross

in front of his locker before opening it. No red tag greets

him. Hayes watches from a safe distance.

F) VAUGHN

holding a mirror under the vents on his locker door to get a

peek inside to see if there's a red tag there.

G) DORN

taking a hard ground ball off the chest. Brown applauds.

Dorn is pissed.

H) VAUGHN

throwing at the "ropes" again. The tin batter is dented in

every conceivable place now. Vaughn whips in another fast

ball. This one hits the tin man in the head, knocking it

completely off.

I) TAYLOR

in an exhibition game, attempting to throw out a base stealer.

Jake springs out of his crouch and fires down to second --

on a bounce. The ball skips into center field.

J) HAYES

also in an exhibition game, swinging at a pitch and popping

it up behind the plate. He just drops in his tracks and starts

to do push-ups as the catcher makes the catch behind him.

K) CERRANO

flailing away again at a curve ball. This and the remaining

shots are all in exhibition games.

L) HAYES

waving a ten-inch garter snake in front of his locker. Even

at this size we can tell it scares the hell out of him, but

it works its magic. No red tag.

M) VAUGHN

with a runner on third, winding up and throwing a pitch four

feet over Taylor's head. The run scores.

N) HAYES

attempting to steal second. He goes into a hell-bent-for-

leather head first slide. Unfortunately, he comes up two

feet short of the base. The second baseman, who's waiting

for him with the ball, makes a motion for him to keep coming.

Hayes flips him the bird.

O) LOU BROWN

on the bench. He turns to Pepper with a look that says, "Can

you believe this shit?"

P) TAYLOR

waiting for a throw at the plate. Just as he's about to catch

it, the runner knocks him flat.

Q) BROWN

his head in his hands. As Taylor gets up and goes to the

wrong dugout, the MONTAGE ENDS.

EXT. INDIANS' PRACTICE FIELD - LATE AFTERNOON

Players are filing off the team bus after the game. We PICK

UP Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn as they head toward the locker

room.

Hayes reveals a pair of red and cut hands.

They've reached the locker room now.

Taylor goes into the locker room. Hayes and Vaughn hang back.

Cerrano is already at his locker. He's got two snakes this

time and some kind of voodoo head dress on. He sprays a patch

of white paint on the locker door from a spray can, draws a

symbol door. No tag. He kisses the snake, leaving some white

paint on his lips, like a kid who's just had a glass of milk.

Taylor, exhausted from the game, lifts his latch and peers

inside. He's made it, too. Cerrano offers a hand. Taylor

shakes it and breaks a weary smile.

GENTRY

opens locker, slumps on stool. He's a goner.

HAYES AND VAUGHN

the two rookies, are still hanging back.

Hayes strides manfully to his locker and pulls it open. This

doesn't tell him much, however, because he's got his eyes

closed. He stands that way a beat ot two, then opens one

eye.

Seeing no tag, he turns and walks double-time out of the

locker room, as if he had to get to the john.

He comes outside, turns a corner, and starts leaping around

like a wild man.

VAUGHN

drawing strength from Hayes, walks resolutely to his locker

and whips it open. There hanging from the top hook is the

"red death." Vaughn stares at it expressionless, then slowly

closes his locker.

INT. BROWN'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Vaughn goes right in without knocking and leans on Brown's

desk.

We GO TO Vaughn, his faced a mask of anger and embarrassment.

THE LOCKER ROOM AGAIN

Vaughn charges across the room and jumps Dorn. The men grapple

and fight all over the room, until Taylor finally gets them

separated.

Vaughn gives Dorn a look that indicates this isn't over. Lou

Brown enters the room.

The team breaks into applause and whistles as Taylor's name

is announced. Dorn is the only one who seems unhappy about

it. As Taylor accepts the congratulations of his teammates,

he turns to Vaughn.

Taylor gives him a wide smile. Vaughn finally allows himself

one.

EXT. THE CLEVELAND SKYLINE - DAY

Such as it is. We MOVE DOWN to the same diner we saw during

the opening of the film.

INT. INJUN DINER - DAY

The same three guys as before are at the counter.

INT. EXECUTIVE LIMOUSINE - DAY

The Business Executive is talking to the limo driver as he

reads the sports section.

EXT. CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY

The two Longshoremen again, looking at a paper.

EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

The two Korean Groundskeepers again, dragging the infield.

INT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

Taylor is alone in the stadium, standing near home plate in

his street clothes, taking in the massive stadium, remembering

glories past. He steps into the batter's box and takes his

stance.

Taylor points to the left field stands. He imagines a pitch

coming in, takes a mighty swing and admires the flight of

the imaginary ball as it arches high in the mid-day sky,

landing deep in the left field seats. Breaking into his home

run trot, he circles the bases, slapping the third base

coach's hand and exchanging low fives with his teamates as

he reaches the plate.

Suddenly, his reverie is interrupted by the sound of applause.

He turns and looks in the dugout, where Hayes and Vaughn are

giving him a hand.

Taylor is too embarrassed to reply.

INT. CLEVELAND RESTAURANT - NIGHT

One of Cleveland's finest. Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn are seated

at a table.

The three raise their wine glasses.

The glasses CLINK. Suddenly Taylor's attention fixes on

something across the room -- a stunning young woman in her

late twenties, LYNN WESTLAND. She's having dinner with a

DATE in a three-piece suit.

Hayes and Vaughn follow Taylor's eyes to the woman.

INT. CLEVELAND RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A WAITER approaches the table where Lynn and her date are

sharing a dessert.

Lynn is somewhat surprised, but gets up to take the call. We

FOLLOW her to the pay phone in the hall.

She is indeed. Lynn is a little unsettled by this display of

clairvoyance.

Sensing that something's askew, she turns and looks across

the way to see Jake talking to her on the pay phone on the

other side of the hall, maybe ten feet away. He gives her

his best grin.

Lynn, as is often the case with Jake, is both charmed and

put-out. She goes with put-out.

And she is. Not so sure about herself, though.

She looks at him a beat, unsure what to say, then heads back

toward her table. We go to Lynn's date. None of this has

been lost on him.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn are the fares.

The Cabbie pulls to a stop and points to the other side of

the street.

Taylor and the others turn to see a dismal, run-down building

with a neon sign that says "The Turk."

INT. THE TURK - DAY

Jake goes to a pay phone in the hall and dials the number

Lynn gave him.

Taylor doesn't like the sound of this.

Taylor hangs up, staring off into space.

INT. THE INDIANS' LOCKER ROOM - DAY

Various players are dressing out for the game. We PICK UP

Cerrano putting on his undergarments. They're all black,

including his jock. Dorn reads the Wall Street Journal, while

Taylor sits on the trainer's table getting his knees taped.

Hayes checks the fit of his new uniform from every angle in

a mirror. He thinks he looks pretty good. Vaughn just squeezes

a baseball in his left hand, obviously a little uptight.

Taylor gives him a chuck on the shoulder.

Lou Brown enters the locker room.

The players turn their attention to Brown.

Cheers all around.

Many of the players follow suit. Suddenly the silence is

shattered by a loud explosive SOUND, scaring the hell out of

everybody. All eyes turn to Cerrano, who has just set off a

charge of gunpowder on his locker altar.

Disgusted, Harris and the others turn back to their prayers.

Harris never gets to finish. The smoke rising from Cerrano's

gunpowder explosion sets off the automatic sprinklers in the

ceiling. As Harris and the faithful look up into the downpour,

we...

EXT. MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

The stands are nearly empty. Of the fans who have showed up,

many wear doormats around their necks.

Bobby, Vic, Johnny and Thelma, our four fans from the diner,

sit alone in the vast expanse of the centerfield bleachers.

All four wear Indian head dresses and have war paint on their

faces. The three men each have tom-toms. Thelma works on her

needlepoint.

INT. MUNICIPAL STADIUM PRESS BOX - DAY

We get our fist glimpse of HARRY DOYLE, the Indians' 55-year-

old radio announcer. Harry's never walked past a bar in anger.

He's been with the Indians through thin and thinner.

Doyle leans out the press box window with his mike, trying

to pick up the sound of a couple guys CLAPPING down below.

Doyle takes a hit of his spiked Coke.

DOWN ON THE FIELD

A YANKEE HITTER

flies out to Hayes, who makes a "basket" catch a la Willie

Mays.

THE INDIAN DUGOUT

The team comes in off the field to much enthusiasm and back-

slapping.

DOYLE IN THE PRESS BOX

HAYES

going through his warmup routine at the plate.

Hayes is in the batter's box now. The Yankee pitcher winds

and fires. Hayes swings and hits a little dribbler toward

the second baseman, who races in and scoops it up bare-handed.

Doyle leans out the window again trying to pick up some

cheering.

THE BLEACHERS

Our four fans (from here on known as the Bleacher Band),

overjoyed by Hayes' hit, start beating the tom-toms and

singing a fight song they've composed called "In the Land Of

Burning Waters" to the tune of the old Hamms Beer jingle.

FIRST BASE AREA

as Hayes comes back to the bag, where the Yankee FIRST BASEMAN

is waiting for him.

Hayes reaches in his back pocket and pulls out one of the

pairs of black leather gloves he bought earlier.

Hayes takes his lead-off and crouches, ready to steal.

Hayes looks down at his shoe. It's not untied. He notices

too late that the PITCHER is throwing over to pick him off.

Hayes dives back for the bag, but never gets there; his face

smashing up against the First Baseman's glove, which is

already holding the ball.

Hayes lies in the dust humiliated.

Doyle takes a long pull on his Coke and we GO INTO A MONTAGE

depicting the Indians' progressive disintegration in this

game. We see:

A) THREE FIELDERS converging on a short pop fly into left

field. They all collide and go down in a heap as the ball

drops untouched.

B) DORN playing a grounder off his hip. He fumbles it, picks

it up, fumbles it again. No play.

C) TAYLOR crouched behind the plate, but up off his haunches,

ready to throw. We hear the voice of his thoughts.

The runner on first takes off as the pitch comes in. Taylor

catches the ball and fires down to second. The ball sails

three feet over the second baseman's head and on into center

field. Taylor stands there, disgusted.

D) CERRANO striking out on a curve ball. He bawls his bat

out on the way to the dugout.

E) THE THREE FIELDERS we saw before, converging on another

pop fly into short left. This time all three dive off at the

last instant to avoid a collision. Once again the ball drops

untouched.

END MONTAGE.

THE SCOREBOARD

It shows Yankees 4, Indians 0 after five innings.

DOYLE UP IN THE BOOTH

There are two empty Coca-Cola cups near the mike. He's working

on a third.

Vaughn stands on the mound rubbing up the baseball with the

same intensity we saw in the locker room.

Vaughn nods and continues to grind the ball as Pepper and

Taylor leave. The Yankee Hitter steps in.

Vaughn winds and fires a screamer. Taylor has to leap high

to come down with it.

The Yankee Hitter is slightly unnerved by this pitch.

ANOTHER PITCH to the Yankee hitter. It's outside.

ANOTHER PITCH to a SECOND YANKEE HITTER. It's low.

ANOTHER PITCH to a THIRD YANKEE HITTER. He has to jump over

it.

THE BLEACHER BAND

Bobby gives the downbeat and, in honor of Vaughn, the three

men stand to pound out a version of "Wild Thing" on the tom-

toms. Bobby does the vocal.

Pepper has reached the mound...

Vaughn nods. He's plenty upset with himself.

He gives Vaughn a pat on the butt, and goes back to the

dugout.

The Yankee hitter, HAYWOOD, stands in. He's the first baseman

who tagged Hayes out.

Vaughn, determined to throw a strike, winds and delivers.

The ball is a perfect strike, right down the middle.

Haywood crushes it to deep left field. Vaughn drops his head,

not even bothering to look.

The ball lands in the second deck; a grand slam home run.

Vaughn paces around on the mound, rubbing up the ball. The

next hitter, COLEMAN, steps in. Vaughn gets up on the rubber,

his face set. He winds up and fires one right into Coleman's

back. Coleman goes down in a hurry.

Both benches are up on the dugout steps ready to come out.

The only thing holding them back is that Coleman is being

tended to by the trainer.

The home plate umpire thumbs Vaughn out of the game. Vaughn

comes down to protest, but Pepper quickly grabs him and

hurries him off the field.

Coleman finally gets to his feet, still a little shaken. He

looks around for Vaughn, but he's already disappeared into

the dugout. Coleman walks down to first under his own power.

Brown signals for a new pitcher and the players on both sides

begin to return to the benches.

VAUGHN

walking alone down the tunnel to the locker room. He angrily

knocks one of the overhead light bulbs out with his glove.

DOYLE IN THE PRESS BOX - LATER THAT NIGHT

He now has five empty cups next to the mike, plus a near-

empty bottle of Jack Daniel's.

With that Doyle passes out on his face.

RACHEL PHELPS

in her private box at the stadium. With her are Donovan and

Butler.

We GO TO Donovan. He watches Rachel go in disgust.

INT. THE CASCADE BAR - NIGHT

Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn are in a booth, having a beer. Vaughn

is still in a funk.

Vaughn nods slowly.

Vaughn just looks at Taylor a second and then smiles in spite

of himself.

EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL LIBRARY - DAY

We see Taylor walking up the steps and through the massive

front door.

INT. CLEVELAND LIBRARY - DAY

We PICK UP Taylor making his way past the circulation desk.

He glances around and finds what he's looking for: Lynn,

talking to one of the reference librarians. She finishes her

conversation and turns, to find herself face to face with

Taylor. She's wearing her tortoise-shell glasses.

Lynn starts to walk. We'll FOLLOW them as they make their

way through the library. Lynn tries to keep the conversation

hushed. Taylor could give a shit.

Jake suppresses a smile.

Lynn stops and turns to face him.

Taylor is momentarily floored by the revelation.

They're in the large reading room now.

With this the whole reading room turns around and stares at

her. Lynn is mortified by her outburst. Taylor tries to smooth

it over.

Nice job, Jake. Lynn is still mortified.

Most of the hands in the room shoot up.

Lynn starts off for her office door.

Lynn continues on into her office. As the door closes, we GO

TO Taylor's forlorn face.

INT. RACHEL PHELPS' OFFICE - DAY

Rachel is in closed-door session with Donovan.

As Donovan wonders what she means by that, we...

INT. CLEVELAND AIRPORT - DAY

We PICK UP Taylor, Hayes, Vaughn and the other Indians coming

down a corridor to their plane.

They come through the gate where they see two American

Airlines jets on the tarmac.

The gateman points off-screen. Suddenly, an old DC-3, with

the Indian logo on it, pulls into frame.

INT. THE DC-3 - NIGHT

This one was obviously bought from the military. The seats

are 40's Army issue, and the ribs of the fuselage are exposed.

The plane is bobbing and lurching through a ferocious storm.

We PICK UP Cerrano crossing himself. Harris sees it.

Hayes sits petrified in his chair, his knuckles whitening on

the arm rest.

INT. MILWAUKEE STADIUM - PRESS BOX -DAY

We PICK UP Doyle doing the play-by-play of the Indians' next

game. He can barely keep his eyes open.

THE FIELD

The Brewer pitcher delivers and a Cleveland player hits a

ground ball to the Brewer Second Baseman who throws him out.

DOYLE

in the press box again.

INT. HOTEL BAR - NIGHT

Dorn and Harris are at one table; Taylor and Vaughn at one

across the way.

TAYLOR AND VAUGHN

A GUY from the bar approaches the table.

DORN AND HARRIS

We GO TO the door to find ARLENE standing with two friends,

RENE and VICKI. ARLENE is a looker alright, 27, and seriously

built. She cases the room, spies Dorn and comes over to his

table.

Taylor watches this exchange from across the room.

ARLENE pulls away and heads for the jukebox as Dorn seethes.

She punches a button and we hear X's version of "WILD THING."

ARLENE sashays right up to Vaughn in time with the music.

ARLENE knows how to make the big entrance. Vaughn's slightly

overwhelmed.

DORN

taking this all in from across the room. Taylor comes up

next to him.

INT. THE INDIANS' DC-3 - NIGHT

We PICK UP Taylor in his seat, glasses on, reading something

by the light of a flashlight rigged up to the back of his

seat. We MOVE to reveal it -- the Classics Illustrated comic

book of "Moby Dick."

Hayes wanders by, an air-sick bag hanging around his neck.

Taylor indicates a stack of Classic Comics next to him.

EXT. CLEVELAND LIBRARY - LATE AFTERNOON

Taylor sits in his car, across the street from the employee

entrance of the library. He scrunches down a bit as Lynn

comes out of the building and heads for her car. She gets in

and we...

SERIES OF SHOTS OF LYNN

driving through the city with Taylor following at a discrete

distance. Finally, Lynn pulls up outside an expensive-looking

townhouse. Taylor pulls up further down the street and watches

her go inside, debating whether to go in after her.

INT. CLEVELAND BAR - EARLY EVENING

Taylor's having a beer, still trying to decide whether to go

see her or not.

TAYLOR

pulling up outside the townhouse he saw Lynn go into. He

goes up the stairs and knocks on the door.

Lynn answers, looking more dressed up than when she left the

library. She's surprised to see Taylor.

Before Lynn can answer, Tom appears at the door.

Before Taylor can beg off further, Tom ushers him inside and

closes the door. In the room are two other couples: ARTHUR

HOLLOWAY, a senior partner in Tom's firm and his wife CLAIRE,

and BRENT BOWDEN, another lawyer in the firm and a

contemporary of Tom's. His wife is JANICE. This is a very

upscale group.

Polite nods from the group, except for Janice, who seems

somewhat intrigued.

Taylor sticks out his hand. Tom's not sure whether Taylor's

putting him on or not. He shakes anyway.

Tom goes off to get the beer.

Tom clinks his glass with Jake's beer, the slight

condescension in his manner not lost on Taylor. Lynn is

uncomfortable with this whole situation. Janice moves a bit

closer to Taylor. It's obvious she finds him attractive.

Lynn is irritated by Janice's directness.

Tom and the others react as if Taylor's just announced a

death in the family.

Everyone is somewhat surprised by Lynn's quick defense of

Taylor, including Lynn herself.

Jack just nods. He never heard of it.

Lynn's eyes drop to the floor.

A tense silence settles on the group.

Taylor exchanges a quick glance with Lynn and heads for the

door.

Tom accompanies Taylor to the door, out of earshot of the

others.

Tom sticks out his hand. The two men shake to keep up

appearances for their onlookers across the room.

INT. VAUGHN'S ROOM - DAY

Vaughn and Hayes are watching a soap opera on an old black

and white TV. Pepper pops his head in.

Vaughn looks somewhat apprehensively at Hayes.

INT. LOU BROWN'S OFFICE - DAY

Brown is lost in thought at his desk. Vaughn appears at the

door like a boy expecting a spanking.

Vaughn comes in and takes a seat. He's worried.

Vaughn nods contritely.

Vaughn looks at the picture on the wall. He squints slightly.

Brown notices it.

Brown quickly prints some big letters on a legal pad and

goes to stand about fifteen feet from Vaughn.

Vaughn balks a second and then concentrates on the pad,

squinting. Unsettled, he squints harder. He even tries closing

one eye.

Vaughn shakes his head no.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. CLEVELAND LOCKER ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor, Hayes, Vaughn and the others are dressing out for

the game. Vaughn is wearing his glasses.

Meanwhile, Cerrano is sharpening a long knife at his locker.

Cerrano pulls the unborn chicken out of his pocket -- a common

store bought egg. Harris is a little embarrassed at his

outburst.

Cerrano touches the egg to his forehead, then places it on

his altar. In one swift motion he slams the knife down on

it, cutting it into two perfect halves. Taylor and the others

are agape at a knife sharp enough to do this. As the yolk

spreads out on the altar, Brown emerges from his office.

The locker room quickly empties, leaving one man behind --

Harris. He looks around to make sure everyone is gone, then

tiptoes over to Cerrano's locker. Screwing up his courage,

he picks up Jo-Buu's cup of gin.

He bolts it down, then backs into the middle of the room,

waiting at the ready, as if half-expecting a bolt of

lightning. When nothing happens, he gloats at the fetish

doll in triumph.

HARRIS

strutting out of the dugout, feeling like a million bucks.

As he emerges onto the field, a Hitter in the batting cage

swings and misses, the bat slipping out of his hands. Away

it flies, whirling off down the third base line in a wide

arc. It hits Harris in the back of the head and knocks him

cold.

HARRIS

watching the game from the dugout, a zip-lock baggie full of

ice-cubes strapped to his head.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

VAUGHAN

Vaughn, wearing his new glasses, paces the mound nervously.

He goes to the rosin bag, wipes his brow, shakes out his

arm. Finally up on the rubber, he gets the sign from Taylor,

goes to his stretch, checks the runner and fires to the plate.

THE OAKLAND BATTER

swings and hits a grounder between third and short. Dorn

moves to his left, but the ball goes past his glove and into

left field. There is some question as to whether Dorn really

gave it a full effort.

Vaughn stomps around on the mound, obviously upset. He glares

at Dorn a beat before getting back on the mound. Dorn's face

is non-commital. Brown paces in the dugout.

Doyle downs a little more rum and coke in the press box.

Doyle imitates the sound of a crowd cheering with his own

voice, punctuated by whistles and clapping.

THE BLEACHER BAND

Thelma calmly knits her blanket with the scores of all the

Indians' games stitched into it, the Madame La Farge of

Cleveland. The boys, however, are a little restless.

REXMAN

The next Oakland hitter, steps in. Taylor flashes a sign.

Vaughn comes to the stretch and delivers. High, ball one.

The runner on first goes down to second without a throw, the

pitch being too tough to handle.

Taylor walks out in front of the plate to throw the ball

back to Vaughn.

Taylor goes back behind the dish. Vaughn gets up on the

rubber. He winds and comes to the plate. Way high this time.

Doyle imitates the sound of a crowd booing. Taylor, meanwhile,

has gone out to the mound.

Vaughn nods.

Taylor starts back toward the plate, and then stops.

Vaughn permits himself a little smile and release from the

tension. Taylor smiles back, and trots off toward the plate.

THE BLEACHER BAND

Bobby and Vic are doing a two-man wave. When one sits down,

the other stands up.

TAYLOR

has settled in behind the plate now. He starts talking to

the batter, Rexman.

Rexman shoots Taylor a wicked glance.

Rexman, slightly irritated, backs out of the box.

Rexman gets back in the box.

Rexman is trying to ignore Taylor, but failing badly. Taylor

flashes a sign to Vaughn. Vaughn goes into his windup.

Vaughn releases his pitch.

Rexman, completely unnerved, takes a feeble swing and hits a

high pop-up out in front of the plate.

Taylor moves out two steps and makes the catch easily, ending

the game.

Taylor rushes out to congratulate Vaughn. The players exchange

handshakes and high fives, as Brown watches from the dugout.

EXT. DORN MANSION - AFTERNOON

Taylor pulls up outside and walks up to the door. Suzanne,

Dorn's wife, answers.

We FOLLOW Taylor into the luxurious den, where we find Dorn

watching his wide screen TV in a smoking jacket.

Dorn looks at Taylor for some sign that he's kidding. He

doesn't get one.

Taylor turns and walks on out, as we go to Dorn's stunned

face. Suzanne walks in with a tray.

INT. INDIANS' LOCKER ROOM - DAY

The Indians are undressing after practice.

INT. TRAINING ROOM - DAY

We go to Brown, naked and dragging from the heat. He

approaches the whirlpool and turns on the water.

Brown flips on a switch. The whirlpool makes some grinding

noises and then quits altogether.

Harris shouts over from the showers where he's just turned

on the water.

Brown is stopped short by the sight of Rachel Phelps standing

in the middle of the locker room as various unclad players

dive for cover.

Immediately, 30 arms shoot up behind her in the Italian "up-

yours" gesture. She turns around, but by then the players

have quickly returned to normal positions.

With that, Rachel turns and walks out. Brown and the others

can only watch her go.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

SPORTSCASTER ROSS FARMER

On the air.

INT. THE INJUN DINER - DAY

Bobby, Vic and Johnny are at the counter.

INT. PRIVATE GYM - DAY

The Business Executive is talking with a friend while working

out on the Nautilus machines.

EXT. THE CLEVELAND DOCKS - DAY

The two Longshoremen again.

EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

The two Groundskeepers are repairing the pitcher's mound.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

[...]

Brown storms out of the dugout, doing his best to look

incensed.

Taylor begins kicking dirt on Wingo's shoes, ala Billy Martin.

Wingo takes a dramatic hop, skip and jump and gives Taylor

the heave-ho thumb just as Brown arrives. Wingo turns away.

Brown grabs Taylor and pulls him aside.

Taylor breaks away and starts back to the dugout. Playing it

to the hilt, he throws his glove and mask to the ground on

the way.

Meanwhile, Brown is going jaw to jaw with Wingo, outraged at

the call. Brown pulls a carrot out of his back pocket, and

offers it to Wingo, who immediately thumbs him out.

LYNN

leaving her seat and starting up the aisle.

Taylor comes up the stairs from the locker room, still in

full uniform. He emerges onto the box level to see Lynn

disappearing down the ramp toward the parking lot.

LYNN

in the parking lot. As she goes to unlock her car, Taylor

looks around hurriedly for some kind of vehicle to follow

her in.

He bangs on the bullpen gates and is admitted by the guard.

Inside is the Bullpen car, a souped-up golf cart with a body

shaped like a batting helmet. Taylor hops in and roars out

after Lynn.

INT. CLEVELAND ATHLETIC CLUB - NIGHT

Lynn comes out of the dressing room into the pool area,

deserted this time of night. She wears a racing suit, but

lets her hair hang free. The pool glows like a sheet of

emerald glass. She shakes down a beat, curls her toes around

the coping, slowly bends at the waist, and then launches

into a full-out racing dive.

We watch as she swims a 100 yard individual medley; first

the butterfly, then the backstroke, breaststroke and finally

freestyle. We condense the time, of course, SHOOTING some

underwater, some SLO-MO, as she knives through the water,

her hair flowing behind her, an athlete alone with her medium.

The SEQUENCE should convey not only the grace of her strokes

and her athletic ability, but the fluid beauty of swimming,

its synthesis of power and form.

As she begins the freestyle leg, another body appears in the

pool next to her. It's Jake, and he's racing her the final

lap. She immediately responds to the challenge, digging

harder, picking up her kick. They go neck and neck for 20

yards, but Lynn has one more gear and touches him by half a

body length at the wall. Both are winded.

INT. LYNN'S CAR - NIGHT

Driving through the city on her way home. Lynn glances in

the rear-view mirror and spots Taylor following her. She

smiles to herself. Taylor, of course, thinks he's gone

undetected.

We begin a SHORT SEQUENCE during which Lynn tries to lose

Taylor in a chase through Cleveland, car vs. batting helmet.

The logistics will have to be worked out in Cleveland, but

suffice it to say, by the end of the chase she appears to

have ditched him.

EXT. LYNN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Lynn comes up the stairs, unlocks the apartment door and

steps inside. There's no particular urgency. She feels sure

she's shaken Taylor.

The apartment is full of packing boxes. Tired from the chase,

Lynn drops her bag on a box and slumps down on the couch.

It's obvious she's not all that happy to have lost Taylor.

She goes to the window and looks down to the street for some

sign of him.

Seeing nothing, she turns away from the window disappointed,

and starts back to the couch, when something stops her. It's

Taylor, standing in the doorway.

Taylor gives a perfunctory nod. They look at each other a

second. There's still plenty there. Taylor begins to come

toward her. We hear his cleats on the floor. She backs off,

but not with real conviction.

Lynn looks at him a long beat.

Lynn is backed up against a desk now. She could move out but

doesn't.

Taylor comes forward to kiss her, tentatively at first. Their

conversation is interwoven with the slowly deepening intensity

of their kissing.

They're unbuttoning each other's shirts now.

Their shirts are off now.

Taylor's spikes come down across her skirt, catching in the

material, ripping it from her body and pinning it to the

wood floor. Taylor steps out of the shoe and whisks Lynn OUT

OF FRAME. We hold on the skirt, nailed to the floor by the

cleats.

INT. LYNN'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Taylor wakens and turns over to find Lynn gone. He looks

around but there's no sign of her.

EXT. LYNN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Taylor comes down the steps, gets in his car, and drives OUT

OF FRAME. We HOLD on the SHOT, and...

THE SAME SHOT - THAT NIGHT

Taylor's car pulls INTO FRAME. He gets out and goes up the

steps. There's one light on in the apartment window. Taylor

comes up to the door and knocks. Getting no answer, he pushes

it open to find that the apartment is completely empty. Just

bare hardwood floor. Taylor stands forlorn in the center of

the room a beat, then walks on out, switching off the overhead

light as he goes.

INT. RACHEL PHELPS' OFFICE - DAY

Donovan is present once again. Rachel does not look pleased.

EXT. RURAL HIGHWAY - DAY

We pick up a decrepit old Greyhound bus coming down the

highway, belching smoke like a diesel semi. On the side we

see the visage of Chief Wahoo and the words "Indian Express."

INT. INDIAN EXPRESS - DAY

Complete with all the luxuries of the average school bus.

Temple is looking at a memo from Rachel Phelps.

TAYLOR AND HAYES

Taylor is staring out the window, still morose about Lynn's

leaving. A stack of Classics Illustrated comics sits next to

him.

Hayes is impressed.

EXT. CITY OF NEW YORK - NIGHT

The Indian Express makes its way through the streets of New

York, enroute to the Indian's hotel.

INT. INDIAN EXPRESS - FULL SHOT

We see that now most of the team is reading classic comics.

INT. INDIAN EXPRESS - NIGHT

The bus slows down and pulls over to the curb.

The players all crowd to the window to get a glimpse of their

hotel. Hotel is actually overstating it. This place is one

cut below the YMCA.

INT. THE SHEFFIELD ARMS - DAY

We pick up Taylor, Hayes and Vaughn coming into their

dilapidated hotel room. Peeling walls and ceilings, rickety

furniture, rusted bathroom fixtures. Taylor sprawls down on

one of the cots. It collapses on the floor in a cloud of

dust.

EXT. YANKEE STADIUM - DAY

Vaughn is on the mound warming up.

Vaughn finishes his warmups. As Taylor pumps the ball down

to second, Vaughn hears a voice from the Yankee dug-out.

Vaughn glances over and sees that one of the Yankees is

dressed in a striped prison uniform. He also wears long

earrings, high heels, and of course, glasses. Vaughn tries

to ignore the guy, but his concentration is broken.

Vaughn steps up on the rubber for his first pitch. He winds

and fires. The Yankee LEADOFF HITTER rips a one-hopper to

the wall in right center. Hayes runs it down and guns it

back to the infield to hold the guy to a double. The convict

whoops it up.

Vaughn gets back up on the rubber. As he comes to the stretch,

he catches sight of the convict again. The guy is doing a

pantomime, sneaking up to a car and picking the lock, much

to the delight of his teammates. Vaughn throws his pitch in

the dirt and all the way to the backstop. The runner on second

goes to third.

Vaughn gets ready again. The convict finishes picking the

lock and then is suddenly arrested. He puts his hands against

the wall and spreads his legs for a weapons check, cracking

up the whole bench. Vaughn is getting a little steamed. His

next pitch is hammered into left for a single, scoring a

run.

THREE SHOTS OF VAUGHN

throwing pitches, followed by:

SHOTS

of the THIRD HITTER lining a double down the right field

line, the FOURTH HITTER a triple off the center field wall,

and the FIFTH HITTER a single to right. The scoreboard now

reads 4 to 0 Yankees. Taylor comes out to talk to Vaughn.

Vaughn nods as Taylor trots back behind the plate.

Vaughn gets set again as his old nemesis, Haywood, steps

into the batter's box. Haywood has a sly smile on his face.

As Vaughn comes to his stretch, the convict goes back into

his act. He's in jail now, struggling against the bars.

Finally he bends over and grabs his ankles, while one of his

teammates humps up against him, pretending to bugger him.

This sends the Yankee bench into hysterics.

Vaughn has lost it now. He fires to the plate and Haywood

creams another tape measure job into the upper deck. Hayes

doesn't even bother to run back to the wall. He just watches

it go. 6-0 Yankees.

Brown makes his way to the mound to take Vaughn out.

DOYLE

in the press box. The stadium below is empty, the grounds

crew covering the infield.

INT. THE HOTEL BAR - NIGHT

Brown is alone in the bar having a drink. A figure sits down

on the stool next to him. It's Donovan.

On Brown's incredulous face, we...

INT. INDIANS LOCKER ROOM - DAY

The players are all gathered around, obviously having been

called together by Brown.

We take several CUTS OF FACES around the room.

Taylor, Vaughn, Hayes, Dorn, and the others can hardly believe

what they're hearing.

Silence descends on the room.

Taylor surveys the bowed heads around the room. He stands to

address the group.

Eyes dart around the room, then come back to Taylor. No hands

are raised...

We take CUTS of the startled faces of the players. As the

idea sinks in, they begin to come to life. MUSIC begins and

we're into a...

MONTAGE SEQUENCE

detailing the newly-motivated Indians' drive for the pennant

and the "Pennant Fever" it creates in Cleveland. We begin

with...

BROWN

hanging a full size blowup of Rachel Phelps on the locker

room wall. In the picture she's pointing as if out at the

players, and a bubble above her head says, "YOU GUYS STINK!"

A set of designer clothes, of the type Rachel wears, have

been superimposed on the picture. The clothes are divided

into 32 pull-off squares.

HAYES

coming out of an elevator in the Turk, with a wheelbarrow

full of dirt. We pan him down the hall, where we see a dirt

sliding area he's been building up.

HAYES

leading off a makeshift base in the hall of the Turk. As

Vaughn tosses a ball up in the air, Hayes takes off down the

hall toward another base on the dirt sliding area.

Vaughn catches the ball and rifles a throw down to Taylor,

who puts the tag on the sliding Hayes. Cerrano, who's umping,

calls Hayes out. Hayes jumps up and argues vociferously,

hopping around in frustration.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

PEPPER

hitting one rocket-shot ground ball after another at Dorn.

Some bounce off his chest and arms, but Dorn stays in front

of every one.

DORN

taking off his shirt in the locker room. His chest is a mass

of welts and bruises.

CERRANO

"polishing" his bats with black shoe polish and a brush.

TAYLOR

taking batting practice late at night. He attacks the ball

swing after swing.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

VAUGHN

taking his stretch with a man on first, and firing to the

plate. The Batter swings and misses for strike three, while

the Runner on first breaks for second. TAYLOR rifles a throw

down to second nailing the Runner for a double play.

DORN

taking a hot smash off his chest. He picks it up and guns

the runner down.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

HAYES

stealing home, as the opposing Pitcher tries frantically to

hurry his windup. Hayes slides across safely, hooking to the

infield side. He jumps up and punches the air with his fist.

HAYES

nailing up the pair of black gloves he used to steal home

above his bed.

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

"INDIANS WIN FIFTH STRAIGHT, CRACK FIRST DIVISION"

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Ross Farmer, microphone in hand, stands in front of a blazing

bonfire. A large crowd cheers as various people throw doormats

on the blaze.

THREE QUICK SHOTS OF VAUGHN

blowing fast balls by hitter.

RACHEL

with Donovan next to her, watching all this good play in

disgust.

AN ANGEL HITTER

lining a single to center. Cerrano charges it and fires to

the plate as a Runner tries to score from second. Just as

Taylor catches the ball, he's once again knocked flat by the

Runner. This time he lies still a beat, and then an arm comes

up holding the ball.

The Umpire thumbs the Runner out.

TAYLOR

late at night, sitting head-down in the outboard motor

whirlpool. He's hurting.

EXT. CLEVELAND DOWNTOWN STREET -DAY

We PICK UP three Teenage Girls walking down the street wearing

T-shirts that say WILD THING--I THINK I LOVE YOU. A Black

Kid comes by wearing black gloves on each hand. As he passes,

he holds up one finger signifying Number One. The Girls return

the signal.

EXT. EXECUTIVE'S OFFICE - DAY

The Business Executive passes his secretary's desk, gives

her some instructions, and goes into his office. As soon as

he's out of sight, she opens her drawer and slips the earplug

from a portable radio into her ear. OVER, we hear the Indians'

BROADCAST.

THE EXECUTIVE

inside his office. He opens his desk drawer and pulls out an

earplug. He's also listening to the game.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BURLESQUE JOINT - NIGHT

The Stripper is wearing a squaw costume, with black glove

and a WILD THING T-shirt.

Several members of the audience have radio earplugs on.

NEWSPAPER HEADLINE

"INDIANS SWEEP ORIOLES, MOVE INTO SECOND."

SERIES OF SHOTS

of squares of leopard skin fabric being peeled away. Under

one is revealed a section of bare hip and thigh. Under

another, a navel. Under still another, the edge of a bare

breast and arm.

THE INDIAN TEAM

all dressed in tuxedos, posed "team picture" style on the

infield of Municipal Stadium.

HAYES

sliding across home plate in his tuxedo and stopping IN FRAME.

He holds up an American Express card in a black-gloved hand.

SHOTS OF FANS

filing into Cleveland Municipal Stadium. Tickets being ripped,

programs sold, etc.

TAYLOR

swinging and hitting a home run into the left field seats.

THE BLEACHER BAND

beating the tom-toms and whooping it up. The SHOT WIDENS to

reveal they're no longer alone in the stands.

HAYES

nailing up another pair of gloves above his head. There are

a lot of them up there now.

INT. THE INDIAN BUS - NIGHT

On the road again. Everyone's asleep except Taylor who lies

across his seat, heating pads on his knees.

THE LONGSHOREMEN (POSSIBLE OMIT)

watching TV in a Cleveland working-class bar. Also cheering

the Indians are several punk and heavy metal kids, their

faces painted with Indian war paint. Strange bedfellows.

CERRANO

hitting a prodigious home run onto the roof.

DONOVAN

standing up to cheer Cerrano's homer, then remembering he's

with Rachel. He sits down apologetically. Rachel watches the

events on the field with a face of cold steel.

TAYLOR

hitting a double into the right centerfield alley with two

runners on.

Hayes, the trailing runner, catches up with the lead runner,

and they reach the plate at about the same time, one sliding

around the Catcher one way, one around the other.

Both score as the Catcher tries to tag both and gets neither.

FANS IN THE STANDS

going wild, while the Indian mascot dances on top of the

dugout.

TV SCREEN

The program in progress is suddenly interrupted by a Sports-

Break logo appearing on the screen.

ROSS FARMER

live outside the Indian's locker room. He wears a headdress,

warpaint, and a Wild Thing T-shirt.

CLOSEUP - A PIECE OF LEOPARD SKIN FABRIC

We hear cheers as it's ripped away to reveal the photographic

image of Rachel's cleavage. We PULL BACK to see the life-

size poster is now completely peeled. Rachel stares out at

us in a G-string and tassels. The photo is obviously from

her showgirl days.

General merriment prevails in the locker room. Players shaking

hands, back slapping, etc. Hayes comes by to exchange

congratulations with Taylor. MUSIC and MONTAGE END.

Dorn comes by Taylor's locker.

We leave Taylor thinking it over.

INT. DORN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Suzanne Dorn is watching the 11 o'clock news. HAL CHARLES is

holding forth.

The scene shifts to...

THE LOBBY OF THE STANLEY HOTEL

where Ross Farmer stands, microphone in hand. Behind him

several players can be seen partying in the bar.

As Ross talks, Dorn walks INTO THE FRAME in the far background

with his arm around a YOUNG LOVELY. They're nuzzling and

hugging, unaware they're on camera, albeit in the background.

Suzanne doesn't miss it though. She moves closer to the screen

to get a better look.

Dorn and the Girl get in an elevator together, obviously

going upstairs. As the elevator closes, Suzanne hits the off

button. She sits there a second in shock, and then her face

begins to harden.

INT. TAYLOR'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Taylor and DARLA are undressing, preparatory to getting into

bed. They are definitely no strangers to each other.

Darla is down to her bra and panties. She puts her leg up on

the bed to unhook her stockings. Taylor is about to take off

his pants, but stops.

Darla looks at him a long beat.

EXT. HALL OUTSIDE TAYLOR'S ROOM - NIGHT

The door opens and Darla comes out, fully clothed now. She

turns to say goodbye to Jake, who is still bare-chested.

As Darla gives Jake a goodbye peck, the elevator door opens

across the hall, and out steps Lynn. She's obviously rattled

by the sight of Taylor and Darla together.

With that she quickly steps back into the elevator and the

doors close.

Taylor leaps to the elevator door, but it's too late. He

then sprints to the end of the hall and down the stairs.

TAYLOR

running down the stairs and into the lobby. Seeing no sign

of Lynn, he races out the front door to see her pulling out

in a taxi. He can only stand and watch her disappear into

the night.

INT. THE INDIANS' BUS - DAY

We PICK UP Vaughn making his way to the back of the bus,

where Brown has his "office" on the last seat. Most of the

other players are asleep after a late night of partying.

Vaughn says nothing, but he's clearly disappointed.

Vaughn turns and walks back up the aisle. Brown watches him

go, knowing he's still upset.

EXT. MUNICIPAL STADIUM - DAY

The Indian bus pulls up outside the Stadium, where a group

of several thousand fans wait. The players are showered with

cheers and applause as they file out.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Vaughn sits in the bar alone, nursing a beer, still troubled

by his demotion. He hears a sexy VOICE behind him.

Vaughn turns around to see Suzanne Dorn. She's dressed to

draw blood, looking better than we've ever seen her. She

slides into the booth.

Vaughn falls silent. Suzanne stares at him with a devastating

combination of sexual heat and tender admiration. She's

pulling out all the stops. Vaughn's a little flustered.

We GO TO Vaughn. Forget it. He's a goner.

INT. VAUGHN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Vaughn has dozed off in the bed. Suzanne, is getting dressed.

Vaughn wakes up as she finishes.

With that she walks on out, leaving Vaughn dazed by the

knowledge of who he's just slept with.

THE HALL OUTSIDE VAUGHN'S ROOM

Taylor is coming back from the bathroom down the hall as

Suzanne comes out of Vaughn's room.

Taylor is amazed by what he's just seen. As soon as Suzanne

is out of sight, he goes to Vaughn's room and opens the door.

Vaughn is sitting on his bed in a state of disbelief.

Taylor nods that it's all right even though he doesn't believe

it.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

THE LIMO

pulling up outside the church. Lynn is helped out of the car

by her Father. As she starts up the steps, she sees that

both sides are lined by the entire Cleveland Indians team in

uniform. They form an arch of bats as she passes. At the top

of the steps is Taylor. Lynn stops as her father ushers her

mother on into the church.

He says this with absolute conviction. Despite herself, Lynn

senses that he's telling the truth.

Lynn smiles. He gives her a kiss and watches as she goes

inside. He stands there a long beat, then turns and walks

slowly down the steps past his teammates.

INT. RACHEL PHELPS' OFFICE - DAY

Rachel is looking out at the empty stadium. There's a KNOCK

at the door.

The door is opened by a Male Secretary and in steps Lou Brown.

Lou puts a folded piece of paper on her desk.

Rachel nods.

Brown has no comeback for this. He knows now that she's

telling the truth.

Brown can only shake his head at this whole thing.

The two shake hands. Brown looks at Rachel a beat, still

looking for some sign of duplicity. Finally he gives her a

grudging smile of respect.

INT. THE TURK - LATE AFTERNOON

Taylor, Hayes, Vaughn and the others are getting ready to

board the bus to the stadium. Taylor pulls Vaughn aside.

Vaughn nods.

INT. DORN'S HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Dorn is ready to leave for the park.

Uh oh, we know what this is all about.

EXT. CLEVELAND MUNICIPAL STADIUM - NIGHT

The place is jammed. 75,000 screaming maniacs, most of them

decked out in war paint and head dresses. Some carry plastic

scalps with Yankee hats on them. Others have caps with the

European "No" insignia superimposed over a door mat.

DOYLE

In the press box.

THE LOCKER ROOM

starkly quiet in contrast to the stadium outside. Each player

has retreated into his own world of concentration.

Dorn approaches Taylor, who's fitting heavy athletic braces

on both knees.

Dorn moves off.

We see a Bat Boy enter with a bucket of fried chicken. Cerrano

looks at it in bewilderment.

As Cerrano hefts the bucket somewhat skeptically and takes

it to his altar, we...

HARRIS

warming up in the bullpen. The tension of starting such an

important game shows in his face.

Down in the dugout, the players are lined up ready to take

the field. They exchange words of encouragement, hand slaps,

clenched fists, but all at a very low key level. This is

tension time.

The Indians charge onto the field to a standing ovation.

In the center field bleachers Thelma's victory blanket

containing the scores of every Indian game for the season,

hangs from a railing. Bobby, Vic and Johnny pound the tom-

toms leading the stadium in a monster version of "In the

Land of Burning Waters." Even the groundskeepers join in.

Two down in the first. Harris looking sharp so far... Bouncing

ball to third. Dorn up with it.

HARRIS

Throwing the first pitch. The YANKEE HITTER grounds one to

Dorn who throws him out.

THE SCOREBOARD

0-0 in the 3rd.

CERRANO

striking out on a curve ball.

HAYES

robbing a Yankee of a home run by making a leaping catch

over the fence.

TAYLOR

picking a Yankee runner off first.

THE SCOREBOARD

0-0 in the 5th.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

CERRANO

striking out on a curve ball, trying to check his swing.

Umpire emphatically punches him out.

DOYLE

Looking past him to the field. Harris is on the mound. There's

a runner on second.

Harris comes set and delivers. The Yankee hitter, BURTON,

(L) swings and gets all of it.

Hayes climbs up on the wall, but it's long gone. Home run.

RACHEL'S BOX (INSERT STORYBOARD # 209G)

Donovan is a little confused by this.

Burton trots around the bases and is greeted by jubilant

teammates at the plate. A silent pall falls on the stadium.

As the "2" goes up on the scoreboard, we...

HAYES

popping up and flinging his bat away in frustration. We take

CUTS of the worried fans, chewing fingernails, wadding up

programs, hanging their heads, etc.

TAYLOR

grounding out, obviously having trouble running. We take

CUTS of worried faces on the bench.

DORN

stepping into the batter's box. The crowd is practically

sitting on its hands now. Hope draining away.

Dorn swings at the first pitch and lines a sharp single to

left. The crowd and the Indian bench suddenly come alive.

Cerrano moves to the plate.

The crowd and bleacher band begins to clap as Dorn takes his

lead. Cerrano swings at the first pitch and misses. An audible

groan goes through the crowd.

The Yankee pitcher gets set again, and throws Cerrano a big,

roundhouse curve. He misses it a foot. Strike two.

Cerrano steps out and begins to talk to his bat, gesturing

and pointing as if arguing with his wife.

Cerrano gets back in the box and digs in. The Yankee pitcher

comes to his stretch and delivers. Another big breaking curve

ball. Cerrano swings and knocks the crap out of it. Everyone

in the stands and on the bench jumps to their feet, rooting

for the ball to get out.

DOYLE (STORYBOARD #212EE)

The fans go crazy as Cerrano circles the bases.

RACHEL'S BOX (STORYBOARD # 212GG)

Rachel jumps out of her seat, hands above her head. Donovan

hesitates a beat, then follows suit.

Cerrano carries his bat with him, holding it high above his

head. As Cerrano disappears into the dugout, we go to the

scoreboard as the 2 goes up.

DOYLE (STORYBOARD # 212NN)

YANKEE HITTER

lining a single to right field. Harris mops his brow,

obviously tiring.

ANOTHER YANKEE HITTER

smashing a double off the wall, the lead runner stopping at

third. Brown signals to the bullpen to get somebody warm.

HARRIS

on the mound, looking like he's out of gas.

Harris comes set and fires to the plate. It's way high.

Brown has seen enough. He makes his way to the mound.

Brown signals to the bullpen with his left hand.

VAUGHAN

striding in from the bullpen. He doesn't look relaxed. As he

nears the infield he purposely doesn't look at Dorn. Dorn

stares at him with undisguised venom.

As Vaughan gets to the mound, he sees Patton getting his

convict uniform on in the Yankee dugout. He looks away to

see Haywood in the on-deck circle smiling out at him.

Meanwhile, the CROWD has gone nuts at the sight of Vaughn.

Bobby, Vic and Johnny are blasting out "Wild Thing" on the

tom-toms and the whole stadium, 75,000 strong, is singing

it. Doyle just pushes the mic forward and lets the crowd do

it's work.

Vaughn nods, but we can tell he's too nervous to have digested

any of that.

Brown and Taylor leave Vaughn alone on the mound, the SINGING

of the crowd ringing in his ears.

DOYLE (INSERT STORYBOARD #216N)

No sooner has Taylor settled in behind the plate, than Dorn

starts toward the mound. Vaughn watches him come with fear

and trepidation.

Dorn arrives at the mound, and holds out his hand for the

ball. Vaughn gives it to him. Dorn rubs it up, staring long

and hard into Vaughn's eyes. Vaughn is sweating bullets.

Finally Dorn speaks.

He smiles and hands Vaughn the ball back. Vaughn returns the

smile and accepts the ball. While Dorn trots back to his

position, Vaughn turns his back to the plate for one last

moment of concentration. As he turns around to face us, we

see a new man as the wicked opening CHORDS of X's "Wild Thing"

are heard on the TRACK, only louder and more savage than

before.

Vaughn steps up on the rubber, his face hardened into fierce

resolve. There's nothing nervous about him now. This kid is

gonna make somebody pay.

Taylor sets down a sign. Two fingers for the curve ball.

Vaughn shakes it off. Taylor puts down another sign. Vaughn

shakes it off. Finally, Taylor puts down one finger -- the

fast ball. Vaughn nods with steely purpose.

Vaughn winds and delivers a hissing blur toward the plate.

Haywood takes a ferocious swing and misses. Strike one.

We see the number 97 come up on the digital readout of the

SPEED GUN which a club employee holds behind the screen.

Taylor gets ready to flash another sign. The convict jumps

up and down trying to distract Vaughn. No way.

Taylor puts down one finger. Vaughn nods and then winds and

fires again, another blazing rocket. Haywood takes a wicked

rip, but doesn't get it. Strike two. 99 comes up on the gun.

The convict has stopped jumpin'.

The fans are going wild. They're all standing now, yelling

for a strikeout. Vaughn gets back up on the rubber with the

look of an animal sighting prey. Taylor gets down to give

the sign.

DUGOUT (INSERT STORYBOARD # 216R)

Taylor wiggles his fingers around and then puts down the big

No. 1. Vaughn gives him a quick nod.

Vaughn goes into his windup and unleashes a screaming bullet

toward the plate. Haywood pulls the trigger, but it's already

by him. Strike three. 101 on the gun. Taylor leaps up and

gives Vaughn the fist. The fans are going berserk. MUSIC

ends.

Doyle turns the mike off.

Monty takes a big swig straight from the bourbon bottle.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

ANOTHER INDIAN HITTER

grounding out to short.

HAYES

walking up to the plate.

Taylor and the others yell encouragement to Hayes as he digs

in at the plate. The Yankee pitcher delivers and Hayes hits

a high bouncer toward short. The shortstop waits for it to

come down and then fires to first. Too late. Hayes streaks

across the bag, beating the throw by a hair. Once again the

CROWD comes to life.

The Yankee Manager comes to the mound and waves for a new

pitcher.

Out of the pen comes BILLY DUKE, a good facsimile of Goose

Gossage only Duke is bigger and meaner.

(INSERT STORYBOARD #219M)

The Duke finishes his warmups and stares over at Hayes. Hayes

smiles, snaps his black gloves out of his hip pocket, and

carefully pulls them on over his hands.

The Duke does not care for this kind of showmanship.

Brown comes over to talk to Taylor, who's been watching Duke

from the on-deck circle.

Taylor starts for the plate, as Duke finishes his warmups.

Brown comes down the dugout steps.

Pepper begins flashing signs out to Hayes. Duke gets up on

the rubber and takes his stretch. Hayes leads away, crouching

low. Duke snaps a throw over to first, the first baseman

slapping a hard tag on Hayes, but Hayes is back.

The crowd is on its feet again. The "GO" chant starts,

punctuated by thousands of black-gloved hands punching the

night air.

Duke comes set again. Hayes leads away. Duke watches him,

checks him again. We go to SLOW MOTION as Duke kicks and

comes to the plate.

Hayes takes off like a shot, head down, eating up ground.

Taylor swings and misses. The Yankee catcher comes up

throwing, rifling a clothesline dart to second base. Hayes

leaves his feet diving for the bag. The second baseman snaps

down the tag. Too late. Hayes is in there.

The stadium is really rockin' now. Duke prowls the mound.

Taylor steps out of the box and flashes a sign to Brown.

Brown flashes a sign out to Hayes. A hint of a smile comes

over Hayes' face as he dusts himself off.

Taylor steps back in as Duke gets up on the rubber. Taylor

digs in his back foot, then points to the left field bleachers

ala Babe Ruth.

The crowd, electrified by Taylor's gesture, remains on its

feet. Duke stares in at Taylor, comes to his stretch and

then lets go a steaming fast ball right at Taylor's head.

Taylor goes down in a swirl of dust, the ball missing him by

inches. The stadium explodes with BOOS, but as soon as Taylor

picks himself up, the crowd begins to ROAR again.

Bobby, Vic and Johnny are pounding out a heavy beat on the

TOM-TOMS. Everyone in the stadium begins to CLAP in unison

with the DRUMS.

Taylor steps back in and once again points to the bleachers.

THE LONGSHOREMEN

and several of their friends at their bar, huddled around

the RADIO with the punks and heavy metal kids we saw before.

Slowly they begin to clap in time with the tom-toms which

are audible on the T.V.

THE BUSINESS EXECUTIVE

at the opera with his wife, a radio earplug in his ear. His

hand taps on his leg in sync with the TOM-TOMS.

THE TWO KOREAN GROUNDSKEEPERS

(Sc 222 before scene 221) beating on their shovels in the

bullpen.

LARGE APARTMENT BUILDING

FRAMED against the Cleveland skyline. In several of the lit

windows we see people banging things or clapping.

THE STADIUM AGAIN

Duke gets back on the hill. Getting the sign he wants, he

comes to his stretch, checking Hayes at second.

As Duke starts his delivery to the plate, we go to SLOW

MOTION. The clapping in the stadium stops as everyone hushes

to watch the pitch. We...

THE LONGSHOREMEN, THE BUSINESS EXECUTIVE, THE GROUNDSKEEPERS

AND THE APARTMENT DWELLERS

They've all stopped too in anticipation of the pitch.

THE STADIUM

Everything from here on will continue to be in SLOW MOTION.

As Duke whips his arm toward the plate, Hayes takes off for

third. Taylor, instead of swinging away, shortens up on the

bat and bunts Duke's pitch down the third base line.

The Yankee third baseman, caught completely unaware, charges

the ball frantically.

TAYLOR

barreling down the line toward first on his sore legs, giving

it everything he's got.

THE THIRD BASEMAN

scooping up the ball barehanded and firing on the run to

first.

TAYLOR

pounding down the line. He strains for the bag as the Yankee

first baseman stretches to his limit for the throw. Taylor

and the ball arrive at almost the same time. Taylor hits the

bag and then sprawls in the dirt as his knees give out.

The umpire brings up his arms, and spreads them wide. Safe.

Taylor's beaten it.

The first baseman looks up to see something that strikes

fear into his heart across the field. It's...

HAYES

streaking for home, trying to score all the way from second

on a bunt.

The first baseman fires to the plate, as the catcher positions

himself for the throw. Hayes launches into a flying feet-

first slide. The catcher brings the tag down. Hayes hooks to

the outside, his trailing foot reaching for the plate.

Hayes' foot catches the corner of the plate. The umpire puts

the palms down and whips them apart. It's all over, folks.

SLOW MOTION ENDS

Pandemonium breaks loose in Municipal Stadium. Rachel hugs

Donovan, dances around, punches the air, then hugs Donovan

again. Everywhere people are hugging and kissing each other.

Bobby, Vic and Johnny are going berserk in the bleachers.

Thelma sits quietly, a tear rolling down her cheek.

QUICK CUTS

of our other fans. We see...

A) The Business Executive stand up and yell "Yes!" in the

middle of the opera. Several other men stand up and express

their excitement as well.

B) The Longshoremen whoop it up in their bar -- exchanging

fives and hugs with the punkers and heavy metal kids.

C) The various apartment dwellers dancing, clapping, yelling

out the windows.

D) The two Korean Groundskeepers just shaking their heads in

amazement.

E) Elsewhere in the stadium, the joyous exultation continues

unabated. The crowd pours onto the field as Hayes runs toward

Taylor and literally leaps into his arms.

F) The two spin around throwing their fists in the air.

G) Cerrano and Harris embrace. Dorn gives Vaughn a hug, then

steps back and decks him with a right hand.

H) Dorn pulls Vaughn back to his feet, and they hug again.

I) Up in the stands, Rachel watches all this with tears in

her eyes.

Taylor starts off the field when he sees something that

catches his eye. Standing by the field rail is Lynn. She

holds up her left hand and smiles. There's no ring on it.

Taylor races over to her as she jumps down from the rail and

hugs herself to him. We HOLD on the celebration as it swirls

all around them, and...

ROLL CREDITS

