MUSIC: GRAND MASTER FLASH'S "The Message" KICKS IN and

as MAIN TITLES ROLL we...

FADE IN:

A tricked-out Cadillac Escalade with the windows tinted

deep black rolls INTO FRAME.

passes three people doing tai chi on a bluff overlooking

the ocean...

passes a gorgeous Labrador retriever snatching a Frisbee

midair...

passes two horse back riders galloping along the beach...

passes a gleaming mansion with a massive putting green-

like lawn...

passes blonde Little Leaguers playing baseball in crisp

new uniforms.

passes two rich housewives clutching shopping bags from

the most expensive stores on the planet...

Drives through a security gate and into a gated community

of brand new mansions...

A small crowd and the press are gathered around BILL

GLUCKMAN, his wife BESS (40s, lots of plastic surgery)

and daughter BRENDA (11) who are on the porch of their

12,000-square-foot mansion.

Using the remote, Brad changes the channel on his

parents' monitors to "Yo MTV Raps."

(1990)

Bill and Bess enter with suitcases. The house is crowded

with relatives and Brad's 13-year-old friends.

UNCLE LOUIE, fifty and fat, with prayer shawl and

yarmulke, moves past them and calls out to Brad:

REVEAL: THIRTEEN-YEAR-OLD BRAD dressed like Flava Flav,

a big clock around his neck, looking like he's just

smelled a fart.

Brad exits through French doors, and as we FOLLOW him

OUTSIDE NAUGHTY BY NATURE'S "O.P.P." KICKS IN.

It's like we've suddenly stepped into a hard-core rap

video -- big-bootied home girls in bikinis freak with

clean-cut Jewish kids as the staff serve barbecue and

malt liquor to the freaked-out guests. Among them, we

see a 13-year-old HADJI, MONSTER, and MOCHA, all nicely-

dressed for temple. Above, a huge spray-painted banner

reads: "MAZEL TIZZOV B-RAD, ON HIS BAR MITZVAH!"

Bess sniffles and dabs her eyes.

A PAGER GOES OFF. Brad searches his pockets, pulls out a

pager -- that's not it; pulls out another pager -- that's

not it either; pulls out a two-way -- that's the one.

He gets up and runs out of the room.

Bill, Tom, the staff, and several AIDES of varying

ethnicity are mid-meeting.

The team gathers around -- it's a gang pitch.

Tom gets strange looks from everyone.

The team all nods.

They all chuckle.     Bill sighs.

They turn to the TV and Gary hits PLAY.

On the monitor:     A Gluckman campaign ad plays.

A young, black gangbanger (SEAN), glares at camera.

A second banger (PJ), glares at camera.

We cut wide: to reveal Bill Gluckman standing in between

the two gangbangers. He's in shirtsleeves, tie loosened.

PJ and Sean think is over, nod and shake hands.

Cut to angle on Bill and the gangbangers playing

basketball, having a wonderful time.

Bill flies by, obviously from an O.S. trampoline, and

soars over the gangbangers for a monster dunk.

Freeze on:     the two awestruck "gangbangers."

As they talk we see Brad, out the window, raising a

banner.

He looks out the window and sees Brad's new banner.       It

reads, in graffiti colors: "ELECTION ERECTION."

Brad urgently runs into the Mali-Brew Coffee Shop

(Starbucks clone), where he and his crew spend ninety

percent of their time. He is stopped at the door by a

very worried Mocha and Monster.

Tom hands them a manila envelope.

PJ pulls Brad's CD from the envelope.

INSERT - CD COVER

It is Brad, throwing the Malibu sign, surrounded by women

in thongs with gigantic asses. The title, in graffiti

font, reads: "MALI-BOOTAY!"

BACK TO SCENE

They all laugh.        Tom hands them a checklist/itinerary.

Pulls out a smaller envelope.

Tom gets in the limo and leaves as Sean and PJ head for

their car.

They think, then come up with it at the same time.

SHONDRA - DAY

in a Wienie In a Bun uniform, chewing gum and looking

like she's smelling something nasty.

She's at the counter facing Sean and PJ.     PJ studies the

menu.

WIDER

MUSIC:   An UPTEMPO RAP TRACK KICKS IN as we...

Brad sees Shondra and freezes.      Everything goes SLOW

MOTION.

BRAD'S POV - SHONDRA

strutting toward him.

BACK TO SCENE

She throws open her shirt, and before we see anything

we...

REVERSE ANGLE - BRAD

His eyes go wide, then we're...

BACK TO REAL TIME: Brad snaps to as Shondra brushes by

and then moves to the counter.

She smiles.     Brad follows her over to the condiment

table.

Bard throws the "M" sign.

Brad points to three white wannabes in another corner.

We PAN TO another table, where four thug posers sit.

She smiles seductively.

Brad hands her his CD.

They drive along the Santa Monica Freeway, heading east.

She's taken aback by his sincerity.      She doesn't get much

validation from guys.

She gives him a strange look, then notices where they

are.

Brad swerves across three lanes of the freeway to take

the exit, and suddenly finds himself actually in South

Central. He's awestruck -- he notices a homeless guy

with a shopping cart loaded with bags of stuff.

Suddenly Sean pops his head into the car and stares

directly at Brad. He puts a prop Tec 9 in Brad's chest

and yanks him out of the car.

Hadji reluctantly hands her a wad of cash as she laughs.

Brad pulls out another pager, a phone, another phone.

Sean and PJ both pull several more out of his other

pockets, as well as his wallet.

Brad does, and PJ duct-tapes his hands behind his back.

Sean, PJ and Shondra exit, slamming the door behind them.

Sean and PJ immediately drop their bad-ass personas.

Shondra rolls her eyes and heads back into the room.

Shondra enters.      Brad turns away.

Sean pulls in and parks in front of a small Korean

grocery.

He hands Brad one of the prop guns -- a Glock.    It's

heavier than Brad thought. He drops it.

He holds up his prop gun.

Brad sticks the prop gun into his pants and gets out.        As

soon as he's in the store, Sean and PJ burst into

laughter.

They laugh again and pound it.

Brad walks in, very nervous.       He looks back -- his car is

parked so that PJ can see him      through the door. PJ

smiles and shows him the gun      again. Brad swallows and

approaches the counter. The       KOREAN GUY behind it watches

him closely.

Brad hurries to the back of the store, and spots a door

by the beer cooler. He tries to open it. It's locked.

Brad looks up to the security mirror and sees that the

Korean Guy is watching him. He moves to the beer cooler

and tries to calm down.

It's not working. Brad tries a cleansing         breath. It

doesn't help either. Brad gathers up an         armful of Old

English 40s and heads for the front. The         Korean Guy

watches him as he walks past the counter        toward the door.

Brad drops the beer. It CRASHES to the floor in SLOW

MOTION. Brad makes a crazy, threatening face as he pulls

back a fist, but the Korean Guy throws a fast right hand,

landing squarely on Brad's chin. Brad goes down like a

sack of hammers; then we FLASHBACK TO:

Moments earlier: We realize we've just been in a fantasy,

as Brad again approaches the counter with his beer.

He sets the 40s on the counter, then reaches into his

waistband for his gun, and we...

CLOSE ON BILL

face through hole.

Sean, holding Brad by the shirt, slams him against the

Escalade.

He shoves a prop gun into Brad's ribs.

Brad takes a deep sigh, looks them in the eye, and begins

to talk like a conservative white guy.

Sean and PJ move off to the side.

Brad, in the seats, eating popcorn non-stop. He is

flanked by Sean and PJ... They both watch Brad, as he

stares at the horror film play on the screen.

Brad snaps out of it for a minute.

SCARY MUSIC    KICKS IN; Brad's eyes snap back to the

screen. He     struggles to contain himself. The MUSIC

INTENSIFIES,    we hear FOOTSTEPS, then a DOOR HANDLE

TURNING, and    Brad can't hold on any longer. He leaps up,

screaming...

Other Patrons (multi-ethnic) turn and angrily "shush"

Brad. Sean and PJ lock eyes: he failed the test.

Sean and PJ are furious.     Brad is apologetic.

Sean, PJ, and Brad approach the club.

They shove Brad into the club, then turn to each other

and giggle like school girls.

They pound and follow Brad into the club.

Tec starts to laugh, then suddenly his fist explodes into

Snuffy's face. Snuffy drops, and Tec starts to stomp him

until his boys, 8-BALL and DEUCE, pull him off.

As they move toward the exit we...

Sean and PJ are laughing uproariously. Brad walks in

between them, devastated. Shondra's behind, looking

bummed out as they head for the car.

They burst out laughing. Brad just stares ahead,

pouting, sick to his stomach.

They burst out laughing again as they head for the car.

Brad smiles, looks at her.

She thinks, smiles, then sits down next to him on the

bed. Brad sits up and looks at her face in the

moonlight.

Brad leans in and kisses her tenderly. She kisses him

back. Encouraged, Brad opens his mouth wide and tries to

stick his tongue down her throat. She pushes him back.

She gets up and heads for the door.

She rolls her eyes and leaves. Brad falls back on the

bed, a dreamy smile on his face.

Tec, with his crew, drives up, lights out, and KILLS the

ENGINE. He looks at the house with death in his eyes.

Shondra exits the room and faces Sean and PJ.

Shondra hands Sean the phone.

As Sean starts to dial, we --

Shondra, PJ and Sean watch, stunned, as Brad grabs a prop

gun, his car keys and heads out.

Sean and PJ exit quickly.

Brad's at the car door as Sean and PJ exit and run up.

Suddenly, Tec jumps up, yanks Brad's door open and shoves

a Nine in his side.

Tec can't believe what he's hearing.

He heads for Tec's car.

A crew member yanks out some duct tape and tapes over

Brad's mouth, then they throw him in Tec's trunk and slam

it shut. Tec steps up to Sean and PJ.

Tom and the campaign strategy team, Brett, Gary and Jen,

are eating takeout, mid-meeting.

The INTERCOM RINGS.

INTERCUT WITH:

Sean is on a pay phone, terrified. Tec stands next to

him. The Escalade and Tec's car are parked nearby.

Tec rips the phone out of Sean's hand.

Tec puts the phone up to Sean.

Sean begins to wail.      Tec yanks the phone back.

Tec hangs up.

Behind, no one notices as a low rider cruises by

slowly.

It's Snuffy, his face swollen and bloody from the beating

he took from Tec. He's with two of his homeboys, members

of the Rollin' G gang, checking out Tec and the crew.

The homeboy works his cell, as we:

Tom stands there with the phone in his hands, shaken.

They start riffing on the idea, getting excited.

The PHONE RINGS and Tom picks up.

INTERCUT WITH:

Tec is on the phone.

HAL FISHMAN reads the night's news.

FOOTAGE)

of Brad, on top of Tec's car, FIRING the UZIS.

CLOSEUP - BRAD'S CRAZED FACE

in SLOW MOTION as he FIRES.

They sit in bed, stunned.

Bill storms in. Tom quickly switches OFF the TV.          The

staffers move aside as Bill confronts Tom.

Bill grabs Tom by the shirt and slams him into the wall.

As Bill takes off:

They just stare at him.

The other staffers follow Brett out, leaving Tom alone.

Bill hauls-ass down the 405, his headset on.

INSERT - ON DASH NAVIGATION SYSTEM SCREEN

Suddenly a map of South Central appears, with a red

blinking dot at the corner of McKinley and 82nd.

BACK TO SCENE

RAP BLASTS IN as Bill punches the gas, as we:

He puts an old musty case in the car and starts to close

the doors. Hadji stops him.

He opens the case, revealing an antique blunderbuss

musket, with a flintlock hammer and a bell muzzle.

Monster grabs the musket and points it at Mocha.

Monster and Hadji start laughing.

He snatches the musket from Monster and carefully places

it back in the case.

Hadji opens a duffel and pulls out three Kevlar vests.

He opens a plastic case, revealing a Stinger rocket

launcher and four missiles.

Mocha and Monster are blown away.

Mocha, Hadji, and Monster snap on their seat belts.

Hadji flips on the in-dash SOS Mercedes GPS system.

The party is now in full effect, the system up and

cranked as the CAMERA FINDS Brad's in the middle of the

dance floor, freaking and doing the robot with a couple

of sisters. The girls whisper in his ear, he smiles, and

they head for a bedroom.

Just as they exit, Shondra enters from the kitchen, and

finds Sean and PJ, still tied up and terrified.

She moves on.     PJ lifts up his bound wrists.

But she's gone.

Brad's on the bed with the two women, who are kissing

him.

They laugh when suddenly Shondra comes through the door.

The girls leave.

Brad lifts his shirt and shows her the tattoo on his

stomach: I-9 THUG.

Brad pulls his nine.

Brad aims at his foot and pulls the trigger and BLAM!          He

puts a BULLET through the toes of his sneaks.

Brad starts hopping around the room.

Shondra gets down on her knees to get a closer look.

Tec enters, gun in hand.

TEC'S POV

Shondra, on her knees, kneeling before Brad.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Shondra stands quickly, scared.

Tec grabs Brad and drags him out.

Tec hauls Brad in, followed by Shondra. The I-9s draw

weapons; the room fills with tension. Sean and PJ look

on, getting caught up in the action.

Tec cocks his gun.

ANGLE ON SEAN AND PJ

watching Tec, riveted.

BACK TO SCENE

Tec aims at Brad.

Shondra steps in front of Brad.

Tec levels the barrel at Shondra and Brad. He starts to

squeeze the trigger when suddenly Bill's HUMMER CRASHES

through the wall. I-9's scatter and duck as the Hummer's

front grill skids to a stop inches from Tec. The

driver's door pops open and Bill jumps out.

Bill turns:     six I-9s are aiming guns at he and Brad.

The I-9's smile, cock their weapons, aim them, and just

as they're about to start blasting, the side WALL

EXPLODES and Hadji's dad's MERCEDES CRASHES through.

Gangsters fall back as Hadji, Mocha, and Monster jump out

wearing the Kevlar vests and wielding their weapons.

The I-9s, unafraid, point their guns right back at Hadji,

Monster and Mocha. It's a multi-player Mexican standoff.

Nobody does.     Brad steps out.

No one stops him, so Brad turns to his dad.

Shondra, Tec, all the I-9's and Brad's posse slowly turn

from Brad to Bill, completely caught in the moment,

waiting for his response.

Brad looks at him.        Bill looks back.   Everyone looks on,

riveted.

They pound.

ANGLE ON GANGSTERS

getting emotional.        A couple sniffle, a few wipe their

eyes.

The I-9s straighten up and re-aim their guns.

Mocha rests the musket in the crook of his arm, and does

his human beat box thing as Brad begins to rap.

As Brad grabs the missile launcher from Hadji...

Mocha slams the butt of the musket down, and the

flintlock slams forward. Everyone cringes. Nothing

happens. Everyone looks at the MUSKET, then suddenly it

EXPLODES and a rusty musket ball FIRES OUT, slamming

Monster in the middle of her Kevlar breastplate. She

flies back and slams into the wall, causing her spear gun

to fire -- a SPEAR SHOOTS OUT and lands directly into

Brad's left ass cheek. Brad howls and drops the MISSILE

LAUNCHER...

SLOW MOTION:     everyone watches it fall to the ground...

REAL TIME:     it hits the floor and the MISSILE FIRES.

Brad... Tec... Bill... and Shondra all watch in horror as

the missile flies past gang members, through the kitchen

door, and slams into the side of the gas oven. We hear a

countdown BEEP BEEP BEEP...

Everyone runs for the nearest hole in the wall.

Bodies stream out of the house scrambling for safety when

suddenly...

The HOUSE BLOWS in a huge orange FIREBALL...

We CRANE PAST emergency vehicles parked in front of

smoldering remains of Tec's house, then MOVE TO Tec, who

is yelling at a cop.

CLOSE ON a FEMALE TV REPORTER speaking TO CAMERA.

She turns and the CAMERA WIDENS to include Sean and PJ;

their clothes are singed and still smoking.

Sean steps in front of PJ, speaking directly INTO CAMERA.

She glares and they move off... We FIND Brad and Shondra

by an ambulance, talking as a paramedic bandages Brad's

ass.

She kisses him full on the lips.

They kiss again, then Brad breaks it.

Shondra smiles as we...

WIDEN TO:

INT. BIG BOY'S MANSION - LIVING ROOM - DAY

It's an incredibly foofy Baroque nightmare.

They kiss, tongues and all as Bill walks up.

Shondra looks on proudly as MUSIC -- heavy on emotional

strings, swells, driving the movie audience to feel as

good as they've ever felt in a movie. Brad takes the

stage.

A rap beat kicks in as Brad goes all out.

Bill moves onstage and attempts to dance hip hop style.

Brad raises Bill's hand up in victory and we FREEZE.

SUPERIMPOSE: Brad did deliver the urban vote... to

Bill's opponent. Bill Gluckman lost the election by a

landslide.

SUPERIMPOSE: Sean and PJ landed jobs more suitable to

their talents...

We WIDEN to reveal Sean and PJ in uniform and working at:

INT. WIENIE IN A BUN - DAY

We UNFREEZE.     Sean and PJ wait on a TEN-YEAR-OLD GIRL.

Tom leans in, with a "Manager" nametag, whispering

angrily:

DAY

sitting at their usual table, in mid-argument.

SUPERIMPOSE: Mocha, Hadji and Monster continued to do

nothing whatsoever, except for order coffee and argue...

SUPERIMPOSE: Tec sued Bill Gluckman, and was awarded 100

thousand dollars for damage to his house, and another

thirty million for emotional distress. Tec moved...

L.A.'s own, Hal Fishman reports.

PUSH IN TO the news monitor over Hal Fishman's shoulder,

to...

CHEERS, as Bill takes the mic (As he speaks, we SLOWLY

PULL BACK, gradually revealing the people next to him on

stage).

APPLAUSE, as POLICE OFFICERS salute Bill.

A table full of well-dressed PROFESSIONALS wave politely.

A group of granola-type ENVIRONMENTALISTS smile.

Brad CLEARS HIS THROAT, causing Bill to look at him.

Brad gives Bill a "reminder" nod...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL:     We're actually in the PROUD BIRD...

A pod of SKANKY WOMEN snap their fingers in Bill's

direction.

The lavishly-dressed PIMPS raise their canes to Bill.

An ASIAN FAMILY give Bill the "thumbs-up."

ANGLE ON TEC

and his gang.     They wear dark suits and do rags.

A table full of prim ELDERLY LADIES golf-clap and smile.

APPLAUSE as Brad grabs the mic at the podium.

Bill and Brad hug.

HIP HOP MUSIC KICKS IN and the entire       Ballroom turns into

one huge dance party. Bill raises the        roof as he

meanders into the celebrating crowd.        People of all

different races and backgrounds dance       together, all

having a blast...

Hadji grinds on an ELDERLY CONSTITUENT's ass... she's

into it.

Bess compares her diamond ring to Tec's Bling-Bling.

They continue to marvel at each other's decorative

accessories...

ANGLE ON ELSEWHERE IN THE PARTY

We see Sean and PJ are caterers, wearing "Wiener on a

Bun" outfits/hats and circulating among the guests.

They approach a well-to-do PARTYGOER.

Tom enters wearing a "Wiener on a Bun" manager's outfit.

He pushes them out of there.

Everyone turns to see Brad still at the podium.

Confusion...

