THE ISLAND OF MANHATTAN - STOCK

FADE IN:

A very high airplane view of the entire island. Over this, a

Voice, authoritative, impressive.

NEW YORK CITY SKYLINE - STOCK

NEW YORK CITY - ANOTHER VIEW - STOCK

BROADWAY AND FORTY-SECOND STREET - STOCK

An enormous traffic jam, horns honking, etc.

TRAFFIC COP AND CAB DRIVER

yelling at each other.

A SUBWAY DURING RUSH HOUR - STOCK

A CROWDED LOWER EAST SIDE STREET - STOCK

Kids playing ball in truck-laden street.

CONEY ISLAND ON ITS MOST CROWDED DAY - STOCK

A BLINDING, WINDSWEPT NEW YORK BLIZZARD - STOCK

BUILDING EXCAVATION - DAY

Leaning on a railing looking down into the excavation are a

group of sidewalk supervisors. The CAMERA MOVES UP to a HEAD

CLOSEUP of one of them. It is Bill Cole (Melvyn Douglas), a

well-dressed, intelligent, attractive looking young man.

A BILLBOARD

A billboard -- against a white background is a large ham. In

large letters across the ham is printed:

And below this in quotes:

EXT. A LARGE NEW YORK APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

As CAMERA MOVES UP it and TOWARD a window:

The CAMERA GOES THROUGH the window and INTO:

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BEDROOM - DAY

Jim (Cary Grant) and Muriel (Myrna Loy) Blandings are asleep

in twin beds.

The room, not large to begin with, gives us the impression

of being cluttered up and overcrowded because the beds,

oversized chest of drawers, dressing table and chaise lounge

take up an inordinate amount of space.

SOUND of an alarm clock going off. Jim awakens, yawns himself

into hazy consciousness, gropes about on the night table for

the clock; it isn't there. He slips out of bed, and rubbing

his eyes, blindly moves toward the dresser. The circuitous

path, which he accomplishes with sleepy dexterity, entails

going around the chaise lounge, just missing the ominously

pointed edge of Muriel's dressing table, deftly stepping

over the low dressing table chair and finally reaching the

chest of drawers upon which is the clock. He turns off the

alarm and yawningly starts back over the same path. We get

the feeling that Jim makes this sleepy excursion every waking

morning of his life.

Back at his bed, Jim sits down, and, yawning loudly, gropes

with his feet for his slippers. Before he can find them,

however, he begins to doze off and slowly tilts back toward

the pillow, pulling the covers over him. In a moment he is

sound asleep. Muriel's arm automatically stretches out and

shakes Jim into consciousness. As he painfully reawakens and

starts to rise, Muriel's arm disappears.

We get the impression that this, too, is a regular part of

the Blandings' daily routine.

Jim locates his slippers, reaches around for his bathrobe,

can't find it, stumbles his way over to the closet, opens

the door.

INT. THE CLOSET

This is a fairly good-sized closet but it was never intended

to be shared by two people, particularly not Jim and Muriel

Blandings. Assuming that they had started out on even terms,

it is now obviously Muriel, three-to-one. Her dresses, gowns,

slips, seem to obscure his occasional pair of slacks, suit

or sports coat. Her shoes neatly line the floor and the shelf

above is loaded to the ceiling with her hat boxes, in an

orderly but somewhat precarious state of balance.

Groping blindly for a robe, Jim feels around and pulls one

out. As he slips into the arms, we see it's much too small

for him, obviously Muriel's. In disgust he attempts to put

it back. Unable to find a hook he finally jams it in between

two silk dresses which fall to the floor. As he bends down

and gropes for the dresses, he discovers his robe crumpled

under them on the floor. He drags the robe out and dons it,

leaving the dresses where they fell. With a guilty look at

Muriel he closes the closet door and starts out of the bedroom

and into the narrow hall.

INT. THE HALL

A narrow corridor extending the length of the apartment. Off

it are doors leading to the bathroom, the childrens' room

and the foyer.

Jim shuffles down the hall. He stops at the closed bathroom

door, listens, hears the shower, knocks.

Jim continues down the hall, stops at the closed door of the

children's room, knocks. No sound. He opens the door and

enters.

INT. CHILDREN'S BEDROOM

A small room, crowded and cluttered up with the accoutrements

of adolescence. Joan, an eleven-year-old is asleep in one of

the twin beds. Jim automatically pulls the covers clear off

Joan's bed. She awakens, cocks an eye at him.

As she sleepily stretches and prepares to rise, Jim exits

into the hall.

INT. THE HALL

CAMERA FOLLOWS Jim through the foyer into the living room,

on through the very small combination dining and breakfast

nook and into the compact but tiny kitchen. Gussie, the

colored cook, greets him heartily.

Gussie takes a glass of hot water, squeezes in a little lemon,

stirs and hands it to Jim who gulps it down, makes a slight

face and pats his stomach. Gussie hands Jim a cup of black

coffee and he starts back toward the bedroom.

INT. THE HALL

Gingerly balancing the cup and saucer, Jim approaches the

door to the children's room. With split-second timing, he

pauses as the door flies open and Joan, in her bathrobe,

towel in hand, rushes out and past him down the hall. She

disappears into the bathroom. Jim carefully proceeds down

the hall and, as he reaches the bathroom, deftly steps to

the left as the door bursts open and Betsy flies by on the

way back to her bedroom. All this is done with a timing and

shifting of hips of which Knute Rockne might have been proud.

Jim continues down the hall, enters the bedroom.

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BEDROOM

Muriel is still asleep as Jim enters, walks over, nudges

her.

Muriel awakens, sniffs the fresh coffee, smiles, sits up,

takes the cup.

They kiss briefly. Muriel starts to sip the coffee as Jim

goes to his chest of drawers. It consists of several rows of

small drawers above and large drawers below. Jim ruffles

through a couple of small drawers, pulls out a suit of

underwear, continues noisily and with some annoyance to look

through the other drawers.

He reaches in and holds up one of Muriel's silk slips.

He strides angrily to the closet, opens the door, reaches up

for the basket and pulls it off the shelf. As he does so,

all the hat boxes come tumbling down knocking the basket

from his hand, the socks spilling on the floor. About to

explode, he looks at Muriel.

Jim looks at her barely containing himself, and then puts

the hats back in the boxes, jams them back on the shelf where

they toter precariously. With bated breath he gingerly closes

the closet door. Pause. Silence. He picks up a pair of socks

and walks cautiously toward the hall door. Suddenly there is

a rumble and crash from inside the closet. Jim exchanges a

look with Muriel, is about to say something, changes his

mind, exits into the hall. Muriel looks at the closet, sighs,

takes another sip of coffee.

INT. THE HALL

Jim opens the door of the bathroom. There is a scream. He

quickly closes the door, scowling with annoyance. A moment

later the door opens and Joan emerges, wrapping her robe

around her.

Joan disappears into her room as Jim enters the bathroom.

INT. THE BATHROOM

Very small with a stall shower. Jim takes off his bathrobe,

yawns, gets on the scale, looks at the dial, shakes his head.

He takes a deep breath, draws in his stomach, looks down,

scowls, shrugs, gets off, moves to the mirror. He examines

the thinness of his hair, the condition of his tongue, etc.

Taking his toothbrush he looks down at the tube he is about

to use, frowns.

WHAT HE SEES - THE TOOTHPASTE TUBE

WHAT HE SEES - the toothpaste tube. It has been squeezed in

the middle, one of Blandings' pet peeves.

CLOSE SHOT - JIM METICULOUSLY SMOOTHES OUT THE TUBE

CLOSE SHOT - Jim meticulously smoothes out the tube, rolls

up the used portion from the bottom. Then placing a small

amount on his brush, he caps the tube, and starts vigorously

to brush his teeth. As he does so, he attempts with his free

hand, to put the tube back in the medicine cabinet which he

opens.

CLOSE SHOT - THE MEDICINE CABINET

CLOSE SHOT - the medicine cabinet, loaded to the hilt with

medical accumulation of fourteen years of family life.

CLOSE SHOT - JIM

CLOSE SHOT - Jim. As he pushes the tube into the bulging top

shelf, a bottle of iodine falls out. Jim makes a desperate

one-handed catch, still brushing his teeth. As he pushes the

iodine into the second shelf, a small bottle of pills pops

out. Jim catches it, pushes it back into the cabinet. A bottle

of cough medicine falls out. He catches it, tries to put it

back, finds it won't fit. He looks at the bottle, sniffs it,

contemplates its value, throws it in the wastebasket. He

finishes washing his mouth, admires his teeth, disrobes and

steps into the shower, putting on his shower cap. He reacts,

scowls, takes off the cap and turns it upside down, a full

cup of water falling out. He reaches out for a towel, dries

the inside of the cap, carefully puts it back on his now wet

hair. Then he turns the water on and at the first warm spray

Jim Blandings' life takes a sharp turn for the better. He

starts to sing, a robust bathroom baritone version of "Home

On The Range."

JIM

Jim - He stands in front of the washstand lathering his face.

Over scene we hear Muriel's voice from the shower. She is

singing a lusty chorus of "Home On The Range." Jim picks up

his razor and turns to the mirror. He reacts with annoyance,

as he discovers it is covered with steam. With weary

resignation he takes a towel and starts to rub off the mirror.

As he clears one section another clouds up. By the time he

gets it all reasonably clear he finds that his lather needs

freshening. He grimly relathers his face only to find that

the mirror is again clouded up. As he turns with exasperation

toward the shower we see Muriel turn off the water, reach

for a towel, start to dry herself.

The mirror cleared off, Jim relathers, starts to shave. During

this, Muriel, having dried herself and donned her robe, comes

into scene.

She takes her toothbrush and then opens the cabinet to get

the paste. Jim, automatically following the mirror, has to

squeeze around in a desperately contorted position as he

continues shaving.

CLOSE SHOT - MURIEL

CLOSE SHOT - Muriel. She takes the tube from the cabinet

and, squeezing the tube in the middle, applies the paste to

her brush.

JIM AND MURIEL

Jim and Muriel - Placing the tube on the washstand, Muriel

closes the cabinet. Jim, still shaving, moves back to his

original position as he follows the mirror.

Muriel nods, steps back, starts to brush her teeth. They

both hum "Home On The Range". Her mouth full, Muriel taps

Jim on the shoulder. Without stopping his shaving, Jim moves

to one side as Muriel rinses her mouth. She examines her

face in the mirror.

As he steps back in front of the mirror, Muriel continues to

look at her face in the glass, over his shoulder. She decides

she needs a little skin lotion.

She again opens the cabinet. Jim once more follows the mirror

around, nicks his face, gives up, stands glaring arms folded.

Muriel takes the lotion from the cabinet.

Muriel exits. Jim sighs, turns back to the mirror and with a

few deft strokes finishes shaving. As he reaches for the

water faucet, he encounters the tube of toothpaste, squeezed

in the middle. Reacting with annoyance, he meticulously

smoothes it out and rolls it up from the bottom. He opens

the cabinet and gingerly places the tube on the top shelf.

The iodine bottle pops out. He grimly catches it, studies

his problem, has a solution. With his right hand he starts

slowly to close the mirror door. Just before it closes, he

slips the bottle into the cabinet with his left hand, quickly

slamming the mirror door, trapping the bottle. He reacts

masterfully at his triumph, picks up his robe and starts for

the door. As he reaches it, there is the SOUND of the cabinet

opening and a crash as the bottle obviously hits the

washstand. As Jim winces,

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY

Narrow and small. The four Blandings are at breakfast, Jim

and Muriel each reading his section of the morning paper,

Betsy pasting a clipping in her notebook, Joan engrossed in

a magazine of popular science. As we come in, Gussie, taking

off the orange juice, is squeezing by Jim who accordingly

and automatically ducks his head as she passes. Jim

uncomfortably turns the newspaper to another page, folds it,

reacts with pained but controlled exasperation.

INSERT NEWSPAPER, a section of which has been cut out.

BACK TO SCENE.

She holds out her hand to Joan, who, automatically, and

without looking up hands her the salt.

She hands the salt back to Joan who automatically passes it

to Muriel.

Jim ducks as Gussie passes back on her way to the kitchen.

Jim puts down the paper, turns to Muriel.

Picks up his paper.

Jim reacts with painful resignation, folds his arms, puts

down the paper, turns slowly to Betsy.

Pause.

As Jim gives her a look and buries himself in his paper, the

downstairs buzzer rings. Gussie enters, squeezes by Jim who

automatically ducks, goes to the phone in b.g.

Muriel looks nervously at Jim who is preoccupied, reading

his paper. Then she turns back to Gussie.

Gussie hangs up, squeezes by Jim, exits into the kitchen.

Pause.

SOUND of doorbell ringing.

The children rise, pick up their school paraphernalia.

She hustles Betsy and Joan toward the foyer as Jim rises.

INT. FOYER

Gussie has just admitted Mr. Funkhauser. He is a tall,

slender, effete-looking, young man. He is loaded down with

sketches, samples of wallpaper, bolts of material. Betsy and

Joan brush by him on their way out.

As they rush out and the door closes, Jim and Muriel enter

scene.

He sweeps by them into the living room, taking over

completely.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Funkhauser looks briefly for a high object over which to

display his last bolt of chintz, finds none, settles for

Jim's shoulder over which he drapes the cloth, the folds

flowing down in front. As Jim reacts:

Jim looks down at the chintz.

Funkhauser fingers the material of a drape, disdainfully

removes his hand.

Jim looks at Muriel, considers.

CAMERA TRUCKS with them to the door.

And Funkhauser is gone. Jim closes the door, turns ominously.

He angrily jerks open the hall closet door, pulls his hat

down from the shelf, several hat boxes, some ski boots and a

tennis racket tumbling down on his head. Jim jams his hat

onto his head, takes a deep breath and storms out, slamming

the door. Muriel walks over to the closet, is about to bend

down and pick up a hatbox when all of her pent-up emotions

explode. She kicks the hat box into the closet, slams the

door, starts to cry.

EXT. RADIO CITY - ESTABLISHING SHOT - (STOCK)

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE OF JIM'S OFFICE - DAY

Exiting from the elevator, Jim enters a door marked:

INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY

On the wall are various framed copies of Jim's handiwork.

Most prominent are advertisements for a meat product called

"Wham!" "A Whale of a Ham!" There is ample evidence of the

fact that Jim's most successful slogan is: "When you've got

the Whim - say 'Wham!'"

Jim enters, goes to his desk, sits down, still emotionally

upset. He glances at a photograph of Muriel, looks guiltily

away, then back.

His secretary enters.

She hands him a magazine. He looks at it perfunctorily, is

about to hand it back when his eye is caught by an ad on the

back cover.

INSERT THE BACK COVER - A COMMUNITY AND EXTOLLING LIFE IN

THE COUNTRY

INSERT THE BACK COVER - A community and extolling life in

the country, sponsored by a group of realtors, local chamber

of commerce etc. Over a pastoral scene of lovely little houses

checkering a rolling landscape are the words:

LIVE IN THE COUNTRY COME TO PEACEFUL CONNECTICUT TRADE CITY

SOOT FOR SYLVAN CHARM

In smaller type:

CHOOSE YOUR OWN COMMUTING TIME HOUSES OLD AND NEW... ACREAGE

Over this:

JIM - MARY.

Jim - Mary.

Without answering he turns back to the ad. The CAMERA COMES

IN for a HEAD CLOSEUP as he studies the ad and on the sound

track we hear:

As he looks up thoughtfully:

INT. JIM'S CAR - DAY - (PROCESS)

It is a convertible, the top down. Jim is driving through

Manhattan.

INT. THE CAR - DAY - (PROCESS)

Jim and Muriel - They are leaving Manhattan, entering the

Merritt Parkway. Muriel, wearing an orchid corsage, looks

curiously at Jim. His answering gesture says, "Just wait and

see." Over this:

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - They are driving through a

beautiful Connecticut countryside. Mr. Smith, a local real

estate dealer, is of that shrewd Yankee breed which

specializes in the understatement, underselling school of

salesmanship.

Smith looks speculatively at the Blandings.

Jim takes a deep breath, looks at Muriel as if to say, "Get

that air!" Muriel smiles with approval. Jim pats her hand

affectionately. Smith reacts.

Jim slows down the car as they approach a rather picturesque-

looking old Connecticut farmhouse. He and Muriel react with

approval, look questioningly at Smith. Smith shakes his head,

"no," as though to say, "Not nearly good enough for you."

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim, Muriel, Mr. Smith - They pass another house. Jim and

Muriel appraise it with interest, look at Smith.

Smith firmly shakes his head "no."

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - Another house.

Smith shakes his head "no".

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim, Muriel and Mr. Smith - The car pulls to a stop.

The Blandings look off, react with interest and approval.

WHAT THEY SEE -- BURROWED INTO THE UPWARD SLOPE

What they see -- Burrowed into the upward slope of the land

is the old Hackett farmhouse. If the roof seems to sway a

little and the massive stone chimney to tilt a bit and the

overall condition of board and beam to be a trifle unsteady,

charge it up to age, which will be a hundred and seventy

years come next April. However, the overall effect is

definitely one of picturesque rustic beauty. In the back are

a series of barns and behind them the rolling hills known as

Bald Mountain.

JIM, MURIEL AND SMITH.

JIM, MURIEL AND SMITH

Jim's look cautions against her over-enthusiasm.

They look at him curiously. Smith's attitude is matter-of-

fact, almost without enthusiasm.

The Blandings exchange a doubtful look which Smith catches.

The Blandings, as one, turn to the house with renewed

interest. This is not lost on Smith.

The CAMERA MOVES TO a HEAD CLOSEUP of Jim as he begins to

visualize

WHAT HE SEES

WHAT HE SEES - The Old Hackett Place suddenly DISSOLVES into

the New Blandings' Place -- Jim's version. It is a lovely

country house. Massive. Masculine. Jim, in jodhpurs, tweed

coat, pipe and accompanied by two large Irish Setters, is

proudly surveying his property. He nonchalantly holds a sleek,

beautiful shotgun in the most precisely correct position.

CLOSE SHOT - JIM'S FACE.

CLOSE SHOT - Jim's face. His lips don't move but we hear his

voice.

THREE SHOT.

THREE SHOT.

CAMERA MOVES to a HEAD CLOSEUP of Muriel as she starts to

visualize.

WHAT SHE SEES - THE OLD HACKETT PLACE

WHAT SHE SEES - The Old Hackett Place DISSOLVES into a dainty,

feminine cottage with criss-cross curtains at the window and

a lovely little white rail fence enclosing "her garden."

Muriel, in delightful gingham, is in the garden, admiring

her latest triumph - the largest rose ever grown in Lansdale

County.

CLOSE SHOT - MURIEL'S FACE.

CLOSE SHOT - Muriel's face. Her face is soft. Her lips don't

move but we hear:

THREE SHOT

THREE SHOT

CAMERA MOVES to a HEAD CLOSEUP of Smith as he, too, begins

to visualize.

WHAT HE SEES - THE OLD HACKETT PLACE.

WHAT HE SEES - The Old Hackett Place. Suddenly SUPERIMPOSED

over it in large figures is:

GROUP SHOT - SMITH LOOKS AT HIM AND MURIEL

GROUP SHOT - Smith looks at Him and Muriel who are looking

at the house with unabashed affection. Jim's arm goes tenderly

around Muriel's waist. Smith looks back at the house.

WHAT HE SEES - THE OLD HACKETT PLACE.

WHAT HE SEES - The Old Hackett Place. The

is quickly replaced by:

GROUP SHOT.

GROUP SHOT.

As Smith precedes them up the path toward the house:

As they enter the house:

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - ANOTHER ANGLE - DAY

Jim and Muriel precede Smith as they exit from the house. As

Jim and Muriel carry on a sotto voce conversation, Smith

looks off with some concern in the direction of the road.

Smith's face suddenly brightens as a weatherbeaten old car

appears, turns up the driveway, stops.

Eph Hackett gets out of the car, saunters over. Hackett is a

middle-aged, rural-looking, taciturn New Englander

Hackett exchanges the briefest of looks with Smith who almost

imperceptibly shakes his head "no."

As the Blandings react with dismay:

He gives them a wink which says, "Just leave it to me." The

Blandings exchange a look, turn and walk off.

As Smith raises a knowing eyebrow:

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY

Muriel and the two children are having breakfast. Jim enters

in high spirits. During this scene we repeat the business of

passing, etc. used in the previous breakfast scene.

Jim looks suspiciously at her, at the children, then back at

her.

Gussie enters with a letter.

As he eagerly opens it and reads, his face falls.

Jim gives her a weary look, turns to Muriel.

JIM'S COST CHART

INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - Rising diagonally and bisecting

the chart is a line graduated in scale starting at $5000 and

running up to around $17,000. Resting on the line at exactly

$10,000 is a miniature of the old house. Fluttering across

the scene from left to right is a letter from Smith on the

stationery of the Lansdale Realty Co.

As we see the letter and hear the voice of Smith, miniature

figures of Smith and Hackett appear at the lower side of the

house. Their shoulders start pushing the house up the

graduated scale. Over this:

A letter on Danton & Bascomb's stationery flutters across

the screen from right to left. A miniature figure of Jim

appears above the house, desperately pushing it back. Over

this, we hear:

As a succession of letters flutter across the screen, first

from left to right and then from right to left, and the house

is jockeyed back and forth, they are punctuated with the

following lines:

Throughout this Smith's voice remains bland and unperturbed

while Jim's has the desperate, frenetic quality of a man

being slowly pushed to the wall.

The Special Effect concludes with the house finally and firmly

at rest on the preordained $11,550. As the antagonists on

both sides of the house relax, Smith reaches around in front

of the house and shakes hands with Jim. It's a deal!

About halfway through when the going gets tough, Jim beckons

Muriel to help in the losing fight. As they now embrace,

Smith and Hackett shake hands in mutual congratulation.

DOOR

Door - on it is printed:

INT. BILL COLE'S OFFICE - DAY

A successful lawyer's office, the walls crowded with leather-

bound books. Jim and Muriel are seated facing the large desk

behind which sits Bill Cole. Bill finishes reading a series

of papers, the sum total of correspondence between Jim and

Mr. Smith. He sets down the papers, leans back thoughtfully.

Jim and Muriel look at him with nervous but eager

anticipation.

Jim looks triumphantly at Muriel.

He hands the letter to Muriel.

As Jim turns on Bill and is about to answer him explosively:

Muriel looks at Jim, impressed, her face softening with

compassion.

They tenderly kiss.

On Jim's reaction:

EXT. LANSDALE COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Comprehensive Shot showing village green of a small, typical,

quaint New England town.

INT. RECORDS ROOM LANSDALE COUNTY COURTHOUSE - DAY

Old Judge Quarles is reading from the title deed, the

proceedings almost over. Jim stands in front of the bench

flanked by Muriel and Bill. Mr. Smith and Hackett are the

only other people present. As the Judge drones on, Jim and

Muriel exchange a smile. Jim squeezes her hand intimately.

Judge Quarles looks up impatiently at the interruption.

Bill looks significantly at Jim.

Jim turns to Bill for affirmation. Bill soberly nods his

head, "yes."

Jim gives Bill a sour look as the Judge continues:

During this, and as a shaft of sunlight hits them, a beatific

look comes across the faces of Jim and Muriel. For a moment

it has become their wedding day. After a momentary pause:

As the Blandings are startled back to grim reality:

EXT. RURAL COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

LONG SHOT - The Blandings' car. The Blandings and Bill Cole

driving along. They approach a fork in the road which leads

to a very old covered New England bridge. On the bridge is a

sign which reads:

They pause, turn, go through the bridge.

INT. THE CAR - (PROCESS)

As they drive through the dark interior of the bridge there

is an appropriate rattling and rumbling of the ancient

timbers.

EXT. THE OPPOSITE SIDE OF THE BRIDGE

There is another fork in the road. Muriel points to the road

to the right. Jim shakes his head, points to the road to the

left. Muriel points to the right. Jim emphatically shakes

his head, puts the car in gear, drives off on the road to

the left.

LONG SHOT - THE CAR

LONG SHOT - the car. It goes up to the top of a hill, stops,

starts up, disappears.

EXT. A ROAD - DAY

As the car approaches, the CAMERA discloses it is back at

the same covered bridge. The car stops.

INT. THE CAR

Jim reacts with annoyance, mops his brow.

EXT. THE BRIDGE

Jim backs up and, over Muriel's protestation that they go

right, turns the car left.

LONG SHOT - THE CAR

LONG SHOT - the car. It drives up an empty road, disappears.

EXT. A ROAD - DAY

As the car approaches, the CAMERA reveals it is again back

at the old covered bridge. The sign still reads: "SHRUNK

MILLS - 2 Mi."

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim and Muriel look at each other with disgust and

resignation.

They look at him curiously.

Jim looks at him darkly, drives through the bridge, turns

right, as Muriel looks slightly triumphant.

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY

Jim, Muriel and Bill stand a little distance from the house,

looking at it. A vast lilac spreads across it. The Blandings

are in quiet rapture, and it is Bill who speaks first.

Three shingles slide from the roof. As Jim and Muriel react:

As Jim gives him a look:

As if on cue, a few more shingles slide off the roof, nearly

hitting Jim.

As Jim opens the door and disappears, there is a crash,

followed by a series of other crashes. Muriel looks in, turns

back to Bill.

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - DAY

Near the front entrance. After a moment, the door opens, and

the Blandings and Mr. Apollonio emerge. Jim, limping, is

aided and abetted by a cane. Apollonio is a stolid, New York

construction man, replete with derby, blue serge suit, and

cigar. A short rule sticks out of a back pocket. As they

emerge, the Blandings are hopefully enthusiastic; Apollonio

is thoughtfully noncommittal.

Apollonio casually walks over to the corner of the house,

kicks an exposed beam. It crumbles, apparently rotted by

termites. Two shingles fall off. The Blandings watch him

anxiously.

As he thoughtfully rubs his chin, Jim, followed by Muriel,

limps his way over to him.

Apollonio looks at the Blandings, at the house, then back at

the Blandings. He takes the cigar from his mouth.

During this speech Apollonio picks up a wooden frame, squares

it with a pocket square, levels it on a fence, and looks

through it at the house.

The Blandings step over, look through the frame.

WHAT THEY SEE.

What they see. Outlined against the frame, the house slants,

sagging perceptibly.

THREE SHOT AS THE BLANDINGS REACT WITH SOME DISMAY

THREE SHOT as the Blandings react with some dismay.

He tips his hat, walks out of scene.

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY

The Blandings have just finished surveying the house with

Mr. Simpson, another expert.

The Blandings look at each other.

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY

The Blandings have just finished examining the house with

Mr. Murphy, another expert.

The Blandings smile feebly.

EXT. THE OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY

The Blandings and Jones, another expert.

The Blandings are now considerably shaken.

A SHINGLE.

A shingle. It reads in neat, conservative lettering:

INT. HENRY L. SIMMS' LIVING ROOM - DAY

Jim, Muriel, Simms. The room is in quiet, good taste, a

flagstone fireplace, modern steel casement windows, window

seats, etc. The walls are crammed with books and photographs

of Simms' handiwork. There are a couple of gold medal

citations of his work conspicuously spaced around the room.

Simms is a tweedy, pipe-smoking, conservative New Englander,

a distinguished-looking local architect. He puffs thoughtfully

on his pipe as he looks at a photograph of the old Hackett

place, an exact duplicate of the shot we saw through the

window frame.

He turns and looks thoughtfully at Muriel who raises an

interested eyebrow. Then, to Simms:

Simms places the basic floor plan on the desk before him,

the Blandings moving around, flanking him. They examine the

plan with interest.

WHAT THEY SEE -- THE PLAN.

What they see -- the plan. A simple master plan of a two

story house, the names of the various rooms indicated. As he

talks, we see Simms' hand, holding a pencil, point out the

various rooms

THREE SHOT. THE BLANDINGS PRAISE THE PLAN

THREE SHOT. The Blandings praise the plan with the

uncompromising expertness of two people who have never seen

such a plan before in their lives.

THE DRAWING BOARD.

THE DRAWING BOARD. Jim's pencil traces as he talks.

Her hand takes the pencil from his, starts to trace as she

talks. Jim's fingers drum with the beginnings of impatience.

As she draws it in, Jim's hand takes the pencil. Muriel's

fingers drum nervously.

But Muriel's hand reaches the pencil first.

Jim's hand reaches the pencil before Simms. Now Simms' fingers

and Muriel's drum in unison.

But Muriel's hand has the pencil.

But Muriel has reached the pencil first. As she and Jim sketch

simultaneously and the scene begins to DISSOLVE, we hear:

THE DRAWING BOARD - THE ORIGINAL PLANS

THE DRAWING BOARD - The original plans are lost in a maze of

the Blandings' extensions, alterations and additions.

THREE SHOT - THE THREE ARE SOMEWHAT EXHAUSTED

THREE SHOT - The three are somewhat exhausted, silently

looking at the plans. Simms wearily runs his hand through

his hair.

THE DRAWING BOARD - SIMMS'

THE DRAWING BOARD - Simms' pencil indicates as he talks.

THREE SHOT.

THREE SHOT.

Jim expansively puts his arm around Simms' shoulders.

As the Blandings walk to the door:

As they go out the door:

EXT. ROAD NEAR OLD HACKETT HOUSE - DAY - WINTER - (PROCESS

MATTE SHOT)

Old Hackett house matted to show winter sky, bare trees. In

the f.g. bare ground with patches of snow.

Eph Hackett is standing with one of the wreckers. In the

b.g. we see the frame of the old house, firmly intact, the

chimney still standing within it. There are mountains of

shingles, splintered boards and other rubbish, piled about.

The piles are reasonably neat and sorted.

As he starts out of scene:

Tractors attached to chains and cables start to pull.

MINIATURE SHOT

MINIATURE SHOT - What is left of the house collapses.

EXT. HILL OVERLOOKING THE OLD HACKETT PLACE - PROCESS OF

MATTE OR MINIATURE SHOT

Jim and Muriel are standing there, having watched the

demolition. As the dust settles:

They exchange a look of mixed emotions.

SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS

INSERT SIMMS' NEW PRELIMINARY PLANS - Fresh and workmanlike,

a few small sections crossed out where cuts have been

indicated.

The CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to disclose:

INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Jim, Muriel and Simms are going over the preliminary plans.

Betsy and Joan are present, Betsy reading the Lansdale Blade

and Joan reading a science book.

He takes the paper, scans it, suddenly bursts into laughter.

The paper drops.

The front doorbell rings.

As the CAMERA FOLLOWS Muriel to the door, we hear:

Muriel opens the door, admits an excited Bill Cole.

Jim gulps. Pause.

The children exit. An embarrassed pause.

Good nights are exchanged. Muriel takes Simms out of scene

toward the door. CAMERA HOLDS on Bill and Jim.

Bill looks at Jim with compassion.

As Jim reacts with painful resignation:

He goes to Muriel and kisses her on the cheek. Jim sees it,

is annoyed.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Muriel and Bill to the door. He exits. Muriel

comes back into the room.

Muriel comes over, puts a sympathetic arm around him.

They kiss.

They look at each other, smile and kiss intimately, as we

INT. SIMMS' LIVING ROOM - DAY

Jim and Muriel are watching Simms, who has just taken a

typewritten sheet from his files. Simms looks at the sheet,

turns to them a little apprehensively.

Jim is halfway into his chair as his eye catches the first

bid. There is a sharp MUSICAL EFFECT as Jim bounces out of

his seat.

The CAMERA GOES IN for a CLOSE SHOT of the column of

estimates. As the CAMERA IRISES DOWN ON each sum, there is a

dissonant MUSICAL EFFECT.

Antonio Doloroso, Builders  $32,117.00

Caries & Plumline  $30,500.00

Julius Akimbo & Co.  $28,575.00

Zach, Tophet & Payne  $24,250.00

John Retch & Son  $21,000.00

THREE SHOT JIM, MURIEL, AND SIMMS

THREE SHOT - Jim, Muriel, and Simms. Muriel has read the

column over Jim's shoulder.

As they are about to exit, they pause as their eyes are caught

by a drawing on an adjacent drawing board.

WHAT THEY SEE - A BEAUTIFUL PENCIL AND CHARCOAL DRAWING

What they see - a beautiful pencil and charcoal drawing of

their completed prospective house. Under it, in neat letters

is printed:

JIM, MURIEL, AND SIMMS.

Jim, Muriel, and Simms. They look at the drawing, then at

each other. Jim's face softens. Muriel looks at him

appealingly.

INSERT JIM'S COST CHART. The house rests on the diagonal

line at the figure of $13,500. As the miniscule Jim and Muriel

watch with apprehension, the small figures of Smith and

Hackett are joined by Simms, John W. Retch, and several sub

contractors, who put their collective shoulders to the house

and push it past the Blandings and up to $31,000.00

EXCAVATION - LOCATION #2 - EARLY SPRING - DAY

A sign on a sawhorse - it reads:

Over scene is the thunderous dissonance of the various SOUNDS

that go into preliminary construction. A steam shovel in

action, a bulldozer, the sawing of wood, and intermittently

the loud, earth-shaking crash of a well-digger's rig.

As the CAMERA PULLS BACK, we see the machines and workmen at

their various tasks. The scene has all the rustic peace of

the invasion of Hollandia.

The ANGLE CHANGES, and we see Jim, Muriel, and Bill drive up

the improvised driveway very close to the scene of activity.

INT. THE CAR - DAY

Jim and Muriel look at their property with unconcealed pride.

Bill is interested but would like it better if there were

less noise.

As they get out of the car, there is an unusually loud crash

from the well-digger's rig.

There is a sudden cessation of the steam shovel and complete

silence. Jim, unaware of it, continues to shout.

They look off.

WHAT THEY SEE. A CLUSTER OF WORKMEN

WHAT THEY SEE. A cluster of workmen have gathered around Mr.

Zucca, the driver of the steam shovel, who is swearing in

voluble but undistinguishable Italian.

JIM, MURIEL AND BILL.

Jim, Muriel and Bill.

He starts off for the steam shovel, nimbly jumping over a

drainage trench. Muriel starts to follow, pauses, unable to

negotiate the trench.

Jim turns in time to see Bill pick Muriel up and carry her

across the trench. As he sets her down:

Jim frowns, annoyed. They approach the group around the

shovel.

Jim looks at Muriel and Bill.

Zucca walks off.

There is a crash from the well-digging rig.

Another crash.

He starts off. Muriel and Bill, curious, follow.

EXT. AT THE WELL RIG

Tesander, a stolid New England well-digger, the soul of

industry and candor, attacks the earth. Jim, followed by

Muriel and Bill, walks into scene, stands by, watching him.

After a moment:

The motor is making too much noise.

Tesander looks up, shuts off his motor.

With a nod he turns on his motor, resumes work. Jim exchanges

a look with Muriel and Bill.

But he's drowned out by the motor.

Tesander patiently stops his motor, looks up.

Tesander looks at his equipment, considers.

He's about to turn on his motor, but Jim detains him.

Jim looks at Bill who shakes his head with mock commiseration.

Jim looks at Muriel for comfort which isn't forthcoming.

Tesander shakes his head, "No."

Tesander shakes his head, "No."

He turns a little helplessly to Muriel and Bill.

He turns on his motor, goes back to work. Jim, Muriel and

Bill start to move off.

There is a loud dynamite blast o.s. As a shower of dirt and

rocks cascade down and they run for cover:

JIM'S COST CHART

INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - Jim stands casually above the house

holding the line with one hand. The group pushing from below

now consists of Smith, Hackett, Simms, Retch, Tesander, Zucca

and assorted sub-contractors and workmen. As the house moves

up a thousand dollars, Jim firmly pushes it back. It now

rests at $33,500.

INT. JIM'S OFFICE - DAY

Jim and Mary.

There is a knock on the door. It opens and Bill Cole appears,

briefcase under his arm.

The phone rings. Mary answers.

He extends his hand. Jim absently shakes it, then:

As he and Bill start for the door:

EXT. THE EXCAVATION AT BALD MOUNTAIN - DAY

Muriel, Jim, Bill, Simms and Retch stand at the edge looking

down at the excavation which is partially filled with bubbling

water.

Tesander walks into scene, looks down at the water.

Tesander considers a moment, rubs his chin, then:

Jim exchanges a weary look with Muriel.

SPECIAL EFFECT: MONTAGE

SPECIAL EFFECT: It consists of a Montage of the following

DISSOLVING SHOTS:

(1) The water being pumped out of the excavation.

(2) The cement mixer pouring cement into wheelbarrows.

(3) The pouring of the cement floor, walls and foundations.

(4) Planks, shingles and plumbing equipment begin to arrive

and are strewn about the property.

(5) The exterior framing of the house begins to go up.

(6) The sheathing is put on.

(7) The roof is constructed.

OVER THIS MONTAGE IS SUPERIMPOSED:

Jim's Cost Chart. - With each successive operation, a new

workman is added to the already considerable group of people

who are pushing the house inexorably upward, this against

the frantic efforts of a slowly weakening Jim Blandings.

EXT. THE BLANDINGS' HOUSE - DAY

The exterior sheathing is completed and, in the roughest of

terms, the project begins to resemble a house. Among the

workmen's cars we notice the Blandings' convertible.

INT. THE INCOMPLETE LIVING ROOM - LOCATION #1 - DAY

A dozen hammers, saws, trowels, etc. are heard in other parts

of the house busily rasping and banging away. Jim and Muriel

and Bill appear in the doorway before entering the rough

unfinished interior of what will eventually be the living

room.

Two workmen pass by carrying a few long pieces of lumber.

The workmen don't see the Blandings.

The workmen pass from view.

As they enter the foyer, a carpenter appears.

As Bill starts up the stairs, Jim and Muriel follow the

carpenter.

Jim throws a brief look at Muriel who is regarding him

skeptically.

After the sheerest pause there comes a shriek of nails

brutally withdrawn from timber, a loud splintering of wood

and then something of the appearance of entrails comes

hurtling down end over end landing with a dusty slap at Jim's

feet. The carpenter exits. Muriel gives Jim an accusing look.

There is another loud screech and more "entrails" come

hurtling down, narrowly missing them. Muriel yells in the

direction from which they came.

From upstairs comes a long, shrill whistle. Instantly all

sound of activity ceases and a voice is heard.

As Muriel turns with apprehension, eighteen workmen come

trooping down the stairs.

As the workmen exit the Blandings look at each other a little

sheepishly, start up the stairs.

CRANE SHOT - AS THE BLANDINGS GO UP THE STAIRS

CRANE SHOT - as the Blandings go up the stairs.

As they reach the second floor landing, we hear, o.s. a steady

but muffled pounding.

They stop as they hear the thumping.

They rush to the closet, open the heavy oak door. Bill is

inside, leaning disgustedly against the wall.

As Bill starts to step out, Jim detains him.

He steps inside with Bill, firmly closes the door. A moment's

pause. The door re-opens.

He ushers Muriel inside and the door closes on the threesome.

The CAMERA REMAINS on the closed door.

The knob turns, jiggles a little, but the door remains closed.

An efficient clockwise turn of the knob. Pause. An impatient

doubletwist of the knob. Pause. A more forceful rattling of

the knob, plus a slight kick. A furious rattling, pounding

and kicking. The door remains closed.

INT. THE CLOSET

As Jim turns sheepishly:

Jim turns back to the door, pounds on it, yelling:

Silence. Muriel is at the shoulder-high circular frame solid

glass window. She looks out.

Jim and Bill look out.

WHAT THEY SEE - THE LAST OF THE WORKMEN'S CARS

WHAT THEY SEE - The last of the workmen's cars driving away.

INT. CLOSET

Jim gives him a look, turns back to the window, sizing up an

escape, starts muttering to himself.

He tests the window frame, finds it solid.

Jim picks up a piece of tar paper.

As Bill somewhat skeptically complies, Jim picks up a piece

of two-by-four.

Jim raises the plank, takes a stance.

Jim swings; the window shatters. Almost simultaneously there

is a click and the door to the closet swings open. As Jim

turns with a sense of accomplishment, his face falls as he

and the others see that the erratic door has opened.

As Muriel and Bill precede Jim out of the closet and down

the stairs, Jim pauses, speculatively toying with the lock.

INT. FOYER - STAIRWAY

Muriel and Bill walking down the stairs. From upstairs comes

a steady sullen pounding from the interior of the closet.

Without a word, they stop, look at each other, turn and walk

back upstairs.

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BREAKFAST NOOK - DAY

Muriel and the children are having breakfast. Jim enters, in

fairly high spirits, once again improvising to "Home On The

Range."

Jim suddenly explodes, crumpling a letter he has just read.

Ignoring her, he reaches for the phone, starts to dial.

On Muriel's reaction:

EXT. ROAD AND COVERED BRIDGE - DAY

Two moving vans are approaching the bridge. Behind them is

the Blandings' convertible. In it are Jim, Muriel and the

children. Behind it and attached is a trailer. After a pause,

over this, we hear:

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ENTRANCE TO BRIDGE.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - Entrance to bridge. As the cavalcade passes

through we see in the rear of the trailer, jammed among the

household effects, Gussie and a very uncomfortable Mr. Bill

Cole.

OTHER END OF BRIDGE AND FORK

The moving vans precede the convertible, make the wrong turn.

Jim stops the convertible at the fork and honks as he

impatiently gestures to the drivers to turn in the opposite

direction. Over this:

Jim starts his car up leading the way.

EXT. ROAD AT THE HOUSE - DAY

The moving vans turn up the new gravel driveway. Jim stops

his car and they all look off at the house, react with

pleasant surprise.

WHAT THEY SEE - LONG SHOT - THE HOUSE IS RAPIDLY NEARING

COMPLETION.

WHAT THEY SEE - LONG SHOT - The house is rapidly nearing

completion. A half dozen men are finishing the exterior

painting, planing down doors, etc. In front, a couple of men

from the nursery are working on the landscaping. For the

first time we, as well as the Blandings, see the property as

a clean, bright and very attractive new house.

INT. THE CAR - DAY

MOVING SHOT - Jim and Muriel are visibly affected by the

sight of their Dream House. They exchange a warm intimate

smile.

EXT. THE FRONT OF THE HOUSE - DAY

MED. SHOT. The car pulls up, stops.

Everybody piles out of the car. As Jim and Muriel walk toward

the house away from us and Bill, Muriel sentimentally reaches

out, takes Jim's hand.

At the door, Jim stops, indicates that he'd like to carry

Muriel across the threshold.

JOAN AND BETSY.

Joan and Betsy. They look on with distinct adolescent

disapproval.

GROUP SHOT. OVER MURIEL'S PLAYFUL PROTEST

GROUP SHOT. Over Muriel's playful protest, Jim starts to

pick her up.

Jim manages to lift Muriel.

Jim carries Muriel over the threshold and into the foyer.

The CAMERA PANS TO a LOW SHOT of a sign on the floor of the

foyer. It reads:

FULL SHOT - FOYER.

FULL SHOT - foyer. In the b.g. is a painter, varnishing the

floor. He looks up in complete dismay as he sees his newly

varnished floor being violated. After a couple of steps, Jim

stops, suddenly aware of the painter. The painter rises,

throws down his brush, says something caustic.

Jim reacts, raises a tentative foot, the sticky varnish

practically holding it to the floor. Jim says something.

The painter says something, points at Muriel. Jim looks darkly

and accusingly at Muriel whose weak smile is an admission of

guilt.

Jim turns and shouts something to the painter.

The painter shouts back.

Jim reacts, turns and walks back out of the foyer, desperately

trying to match his clearly outlined incoming footsteps.

Each step is outlined by strands of thick sticky varnish.

EXT. THE FRONT DOOR OF THE HOUSE - DAY

As Jim appears, still carrying Muriel, Betsy and Joan catch

his attention, indicate the front wall of the house which is

complete except for the windows. Jim reacts.

Abruptly handing Muriel to Bill he starts off. Ahead of him

and unnoticed are a layer of newspapers which have been spread

out.

But Jim has stepped on the papers. They stick to his feet.

After a few steps he is aware of it, tries to get rid of

them. After a few hectic but futile attempts, he disgustedly

disappears around a corner of the house, the newspapers

flapping behind him.

EXT. SIDE OF HOUSE - DAY

Jim flaps his way up to a workman who is staring at a pile

of window casements.

He continues on toward the back of the house, the newspapers

flapping beneath him.

EXT. REAR OF HOUSE - DAY

Simms and Retch. More window frames are neatly stacked against

the wall. Simms and Retch react as they see an angry Jim

Blandings flap his way into scene, his varnished shoes having

picked up additional paper, shavings, shingles, etc. Retch

hands Jim a sheaf of papers.

Bill wanders into scene, looks over Jim's shoulder.

And he stalks off, his papers, shavings, etc. flapping behind

him.

EXT. THE HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

The moving vans are driving away.

INT. THE FOYER - LATE AFTERNOON

A general flurry of activity; Gussie and several workmen

carrying furniture upstairs, unpacking barrels, etc. Muriel,

list and samples in hand, is explaining her color scheme to

Mr. PeDelford, a polite, cigar-smoking, noncommittal boss

painter. In the b.g., casually leaning on the bannister is

PeDelford's taciturn and somewhat skeptical-looking assistant.

They turn to the dining room.

PeDelford looks carefully at the sample, then:

There is a crash from the kitchen.

Muriel hastily exits toward the kitchen. PeDelford turns to

his assistant.

INT. PANTRY - OFF KITCHEN - DAY

Joan is on a stepladder helping Gussie put away some dishes.

Remains of two broken plates are on the floor below them.

Betsy flies into the room waving a railroad timetable.

From upstairs comes the SOUND of a steady, methodical thumping

of a hand on a solid oak door.

She rushes for the door.

UPSTAIRS LANDING

Muriel opens the closet door revealing Jim and Bill, who

have been locked in the closet for the last hour. Each leans

against the wall, arms folded, in an attitude of boredom and

disgust. Without a word Jim and Bill exit from the closet.

The three start down the stairs.

Betsy and Joan pick up some boxes and walk into the dining

room.

Bill and Muriel exit.

INT. THE DINING ROOM

As Jim drifts in, still preoccupied with timetable:

INT. THE BLANDINGS' CAR - (PROCESS)

Evening is beginning to fall as Muriel drives Bill into town.

Muriel smiles warmly, and in a friendly gesture reaches over

and pats his hand.

As they exchange an understanding smile:

INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

It is dark outside and getting quite chilly. The children

are unpacking a last barrel. They have made a rather unsteady

pile of books and boxes, obviously Muriel's personal effects.

Jim is in the process of trying to start his first fire in

the fireplace. The immediate result is a clouding of the

room with smoke. As he backs away, coughing, he bumps into

the pile which falls to the floor spilling open a box which

contains, among other things, Muriel's diary and a lifetime

accumulation of sentimental trinkets.

Betsy coughs her way to the fireplace, turns the flue handle.

The smoke immediately goes up the chimney and the room starts

to clear.

The children start gathering up the debris. Joan picks up

some trinkets which have spilled from a cardboard box.

Betsy has picked up a small leather-bound book. She whistles.

The children exit. Jim is about to put down the diary when

his curiosity gets the better of him. Making sure he's

unobserved, he sits down on a box, opens the book, starts to

read. As his brows wrinkle with concern:

EXT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT

The wind is howling, the trees swaying. The lights are on in

the kitchen. CAMERA MOVES UP to the open kitchen window.

INT. THE KITCHEN - NIGHT

The family, in overcoats, is huddled around the kitchen table

finishing dinner. Gussie, in overcoat and muffler, is clearing

the dishes away. Jim, a sober look on his face, rises, takes

a steaming kettle from the stove.

Jim abruptly exits. Muriel looks after him with concern.

INT. THE BLANDINGS' BATHROOM - NIGHT

Jim, in his pajamas and overcoat is shaving. After a few

moments Muriel, in her nightgown and overcoat, enters the

scene.

She takes her toothbrush and opens the cabinet, Jim

automatically moving around back of it in their previously

established pattern. As Muriel puts the paste on her brush,

replaces the tube, shuts the cabinet and starts to brush her

teeth, Jim uncomfortably moves back to his original position.

Muriel looks at him, puzzled.

He takes the pin out of his pocket and hands it to her. Muriel

takes the pin, looks at it sentimentally. Suddenly she looks

at Jim and bursts out laughing.

Muriel stalks out of the bathroom. Jim looks after her,

thoughtfully starts to dry his face.

INT. THE BEDROOM

Jim enters. Muriel stands with her back to him angrily winding

the clock. Jim noisily clears his throat. No reaction.

No reaction.

No reaction.

Jim gently turns her around facing him.

Muriel looks at Jim. Finally she smiles.

She goes into his arms and they kiss intimately. As their

lips part:

Jim again kisses her tenderly, warmly.

Jim kisses her again, a little more ardently.

Each gets into his own bed, still wearing the overcoats.

INSERT JIM'S COST CHART - The house now wavers at $37,000.

As Jim and Muriel still try to stem the tide, the group that

is pushing the house ever upward includes all of the previous

people connected with the house and -- in addition --plumbers,

painters, landscape gardeners, etc. Over this, and across

the scene flutter more bills, more extras.

EXT. RADIO CITY - NIGHT (STOCK)

It is raining. The lights are on in the buildings.

INT. JIM'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Mary is attending to some detail work as the door opens and

Jim enters, disturbed. Mary looks at him questioningly.

He picks up a pencil, nibbles on it thoughtfully. The silence

in the room is broken only by the patter of raindrops on the

window. It strikes a note in Jim's subconscious. He swivels

around in his chair and stares soberly out the window.

Mary looks at him curiously. He turns to her.

As he starts to work.

INT. THE BLANDINGS' LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Note: The house is painted and almost completely furnished.

A hard rain beats on the windows. There is a blazing fire in

the fireplace. Muriel, in a warm bathrobe, sits near it,

comfortably knitting. In fact, the scene is exactly the one

Jim has just described, except that the man with slippers,

pipe and smoking jacket, reading the paper, is Bill Cole.

Near the fire, Bill's rain-drenched jacket, shirt and shoes

are hanging up to dry. The cozy tranquillity is broken by a

sharp RINGING of the front doorbell.

The CAMERA FOLLOWS Bill to the front door. He opens it. A

man in raincoat and boots stands there in the pouring, driving

rain. The man enters as Bill struggles to get the door shut

against the wind.

He sees Jones' doubtful look at the smoking jacket, feels an

explanation is necessary.

Muriel walks into scene. Jones takes in the bathrobe, again

looks skeptically at Bill.

The door is opened with a terrific swirl of wind and rain.

Jones exits as Muriel and Bill push the door against the

wind, finally getting it shut.

As they start back into the living room:

Muriel pokes the dying fire, looks up thoughtfully.

INT. JIM'S OFFICE - EARLY MORNING

The CAMERA COMES IN ON a package of cigarettes. A finger

impatiently rips open what is left of the package, discloses

that it is empty. The ANGLE WIDENS to reveal a tired,

disheveled Jim. Disgusted, he fishes the most likely butt

from a tray littered with them. With considerable difficulty

he manages to light it, only to burn his nose. Impatiently

stamping out the butt he rises, stretches, walks to the

window, pulls up the shade. Early morning sunlight floods

the room. He turns off a standing lamp, looks thoughtfully

out the window, suddenly gets an idea. Turning, he snaps his

fingers. Mary, who is asleep on the desk, her head resting

on her elbows, raises her head, opens a sleepy eye.

Mary critically shakes her head "no", closes her eye. Jim

wearily throws himself down on the couch, absently toys with

his already loosened tie. He pulls it up over his nose,

throwing the balance over the top of his head. Suddenly he

reacts, snaps his fingers. Mary opens a sleepy eye.

Her eye closes. Jim sinks back with defeat, his hand dropping

over the edge of the couch. It encounters a crumpled piece

of paper, earlier work. He smoothes the paper, scans it,

kind of likes it. He gets up, comes over, snaps fingers.

Mary looks up.

A long silent look passes between them.

He suddenly and angrily gathers all his papers, slams them

into the wastebasket.

Mary looks at him sympathetically, doesn't quite know what

to say. As the CAMERA MOVES to a CLOSE SHOT of the emotionally

distraught Jim, his eyes go to a large photograph on his

desk of Muriel and the children. He picks it up, looks at it

with affection. Suddenly he gets an idea. Rising with

determination he puts on his coat and starts for the door.

He exits.

EXT. THE BLANDINGS' HOME - DAY

It is an especially beautiful, sunshiny morning. A rural-

looking taxi deposits a weary Jim, who pays the driver. As

the cab drives off, Jim looks speculatively at Simms' car,

which is parked there, yawns, stretches, opens the door and

enters. Under this a slightly sour underscoring of "Home On

The Range."

INT. BLANDINGS LIVING ROOM - DAY

As Jim comes into the foyer, he sees Muriel, in nightgown

and robe, talking to Mr. Simms. She holds the rolled-up volume

of blueprints that went into building the house.

They kiss.

As he unrolls the blueprints, Jim looks suspiciously at

Muriel. She seems a little nervous.

During the above speech Simms sinks into a chair, puts his

head in his hands and closes his eyes, a fact that isn't

lost on Jim.

Jim takes a deep breath, turns to Simms.

JIM AND MURIEL

Jim and Muriel - Jim looks at Muriel as though he were

premeditating first-degree murder. She averts his gaze. Over

this:

GROUP SHOT - DURING THE FOLLOWING SPEECH

GROUP SHOT - During the following speech we see Bill Cole,

in Jim's pajamas and robe come down the stairs and enter the

room. Jim and Muriel are not aware of his presence.

Jim turns away, reacts, suddenly turns back to Bill, taking

in the pajamas and robe. A little shocked but unwilling to

believe the implication of what he sees, he looks to Muriel

for an explanation.

Jim looks at Bill, then back at Muriel.

THREE SHOT - JIM, MURIEL AND BILL.

THREE SHOT - Jim, Muriel and Bill. Jim turns to listen but

finds himself looking speculatively at Muriel and Bill.

FULL SHOT - GUSSIE APPEARS IN THE DOORWAY

FULL SHOT - Gussie appears in the doorway in raincoat,

carrying umbrella.

As Jim reacts:

As Gussie exits, Muriel turns to Simms.

Embarrassed pause.

Bill exits. Another pause. Simms, aware of the tension, wants

to get out of there.

Through Simms' speech, Jim looks darkly at Muriel.

There is no answer.

He leaves. There is a deadly pause.

In the b.g. Mr. Tesander enters, cap in hand, stands there,

nervous and embarrassed.

Tesander clears his throat. Jim turns.

A slight embarrassed pause. Then:

There is a momentary pause.

He hands the money to Jim, who stares at it blankly.

Jim looks haplessly at Muriel, sheepish, guilty.

Jim and Muriel look at each other a little sheepishly.

INT. THE FOYER

As Tesander is about to exit, Bill, dressed, starts down the

stairs.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Bill enters.

Jim and Muriel look at him curiously.

As Bill turns and leaves, the outer door is heard opening

and the kids appear. There is an exchange of "Hi's" as they

pass.

Gussie's head appears from the kitchen.

Gussie's head disappears.

CLOSE SHOT - JIM.

CLOSE SHOT - Jim.

He reacts with the sudden exhilaration of Balboa first seeing

the Pacific. He snaps his fingers.

His eyes light up as he begins to visualize.

INSERT ADVERTISEMENT IN MAGAZINE - It is a picture of Gussie,

smiling, holding a platter with an enormous ham. Under it,

the simple caption:

THE CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS TO DISCLOSE MR. JAMES BLANDINGS

THE CAMERA ANGLE WIDENS to disclose Mr. James Blandings

reclining in a hammock on the patio of his Dream House. In

the b.g. Muriel is working at her garden, Joan and Betsy

assisting her. Jim reacts with pride and satisfaction as he

sets the magazine down, takes a long drink of lemonade and

picks up a book which he has been reading. As the CAMERA

COMES IN for an EXTREME CLOSE SHOT of Jim we see the title

of the book on the jacket cover. It reads:

Jim looks up over the top of the book, directly into the

camera and winks.

As the CAMERA PULLS AWAY to a LONG SHOT tableau of the

Blandings and their Dream House, we:

