FADE IN:

INT. DC-10 AIRLINER - NIGHT

JACOB JOHNSON is sleeping.  It doesn't look like a pleasant

experience.  He is sixteen, dirty blonde, his eyes visibly

moving under closed lids as he sits huddle under a blanket in

his window seat.  The lights are dim -- the shade on the

window closed -- a bead of sweat dribbles down his forehead.

The HUMMING of the jet's engines vibrates through the cabin.

The boy's eyes snap open.

Jacob glances around nervously.  He looks like an escaped

convict who just accidentally walked into the Policemen's

Ball.  A GREYHAIRED MAN two seats away from him gives the

teenager a cursory glance, then goes back to his book.  Jacob

lays his head back and tries to relax.  The engines continue

to drone.

Until a new noise starts.  A WHOOSHING NOISE.

The sound is very faint.  But distinct from everything else.

Jacob frowns.

The noise gets LOUDER.  Jacob's sure he's hearing it now.  He

looks at the Greyhaired Man.  The man catches his eye and the

two of them stare at each other for a heartbeat - then Jacob

turns away.  The Man returns to his book.  And Jacob

immediately turns back to him.

The man gives him an annoyed look as the WHOOSHING gets

louder.

The man turns back to the book as the sound gets even LOUDER -

- like it's coming closer.  Jacob squirms in his seat --

sneaks a look at the man again.  How can he not hear that?  A

STEWARDESS walks by and Jacob catches her attention.

The WHOOSHING is completely obvious now.  The greyhaired man

tries to ignore the two people talking over him.

The man sighs -- the stewardess smiles patronizingly.

The stewardess walks away as Jacob sits back and starts to

bite his nails.  The whooshing is really starting to BLARE

now.  He looks between the seats in front of him -- twists

around to look behind.  He snaps back to the greyhaired man.

The man glares at him, and Jacob backs off.  The sound has

grown DEAFENING.  Jacob grinds his seat like he's going mad.

He looks at the closed window.  He reaches out his hand,

grabs the handle then rips up the shade for all to see:

A 747 coming RIGHT AT US.

Jacob SCREAMS.  The planes CRASH.

Impact - decompression - explosion.  The hull of the cabin

buckles violently - moaning like a dying elephant - peeling

inward revealing RED AND GREEN STRIPING on the outside.

A huge wing section RIPS through the structure - barely

missing Jacob - taking the greyhaired man's head clean off -

nailing the stewardess in the gut and shoving her body across

and out the other side of the cabin.

And Jacob's seat drops down - sending him and us into:

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Like an intricate ballet, Jacob, his body strapped to his

chair, tumbles away from the DC-10 and 747 as they seem to

merge and bend into some kind of mutant DC-47 - wings and

tails wrapping around each other as debris blooms out like a

flower and together they EXPLODE - a fiery ball lighting the

nighttime clouds and Jacob's shrieking face.

And Jacob falls and falls and falls, his hair sticking

straight up from the blasting wind.

That's when CORPSES start falling past him.  The captain of

the plane - the stewardess, her body bent in half - the

greyhaired man, his head gone but his book still in his hand.

More men, women, crew people - and CHILDREN.

But these children aren't dead bodies.  Two LITTLE GIRLS and

one LITTLE BOY, all dressed in white, plummet down next to

Jacob, head first, like high divers.  And they're singing:

The children turn around in the sky so that they are

travelling feet first.  The Little Boy's pants puff up and

the Girls' skirts poof out and RIP UPWARD - the wind taking

away their clothes and their skin and their bodies and their

hair...

Leaving three tiny SKELETONS - taunting and laughing as Jacob

screams and covers his eyes.

And the Skeletons sprout wings - leathery and veiny - the

wind catching them and sending them up and away as their

voices echo in the sky.

Jacob takes his hands away from his face and starts to

frantically pull on his seat belt.  SNAP - it flies off his

back and miraculously turns into a PARACHUTE.  Rope swirls

into the air - the wind grabs the canvas - and Jacob's body

slows with a violent jerk.

But at least he's not falling anymore.  Jacob catches his

breath as he starts gently floating through the sky.  He

smiles.  This isn't so bad.  This is actually kind of fun.

Not for long, though, because his new upward momentum carries

him back up to:

The winged children's Skeletons.  Jacob's eyes bug out as he

rises into them and they start to circle.  They move closer

and we can see something in their hands:

SCISSORS

Jacob twists his body, trying to steer his parachute away

from the demons.  One of the Skeletons swoops up to his face

and pokes its scissors inches away from Jacob's eyes.  It

sings alone:

The Skeleton cranks its arm back - ready to plunge the

scissor's blades into Jacob's sockets.  The arms swings

toward him - then suddenly diverts up past his head, heading

for:

THE CHUTE'S STRINGS

The Skeleton flaps its wings and poises its scissors at one

of the ropes.  The other two Skeletons join it over Jacob's

head.  The three of them look down at Jacob, their boney jaws

in a perpetual smile.

The Skeletons nod "yes".  SNIP - SNIP - SNIP - they cut away

at Jacob's parachute as he swings underneath them, trying to

pull away - SNIP - SNIP.

The parachute flutters away - the Skeletons cackle - and

Jacob plummets.

ON JACOB

We stay with him as he screams and shrieks and yells and the

clouds part and the ground rises quickly up to meet him.  The

ground becomes a town, the town becomes a block, the block

becomes a house, the house becomes a roof, and...

INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

KA-BLAM!  The ceiling explodes as Jacob's body plows through,

slams down, shatters the bed, and we immediately:

INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Jacob's eyes blast open as he sits up from bed in a cold

sweat.  A dream.  The worst fucking dream from hell anyone

would ever want to have -- but still just a dream.  He takes

a few deep breaths as a soft KNOCK is heard at the door.

ALICE JOHNSON opens the door and sticks her head in.  She's

thirty-two, blonde, with a caring smile.

Alice closes the door as Jacob gets out of bed and stretches.

Sunlight is leaking through the bedroom window shade and

Jacob walks over to it.  He reaches out and pulls up the

shade.

And there's nothing buy sky.  Jacob frowns and pokes his head

out the window.

JACOB'S POV - THE GROUND

is once again racing up towards us at seven-thousand miles an

hour.  The entire house is falling.

BACK IN THE BEDROOM

Jacob leaps away from the window.  The WINGED SKELETONS

reappear outside -- dancing in the air -- cackling with glee.

The bedroom starts to SHAKE violently as Jacob stumbles into

the center.  The roof starts caving in and the walls begins

to crumble.

ANGLE STRAIGHT DOWN ON JACOB.

Jacob grabs his head, looks up at us, and SCREAMS.  We

suddenly stay where we are as the house drops down and we

punch out through the roof and our shot becomes an:

ANGLE STRAIGHT DOWN ON THE HOUSE

as it falls away towards the ground.  We watch as it becomes

a small dot - and finally impacts on the surface.  A mushroom

cloud of smoke silently puffs out in the distance below

EXT. TOWN - NIGHT - AT THE CRATER

Smoke and dust whirl around a huge hole in the earth.

Splintered shreds of lumber stick up in the air like giant

toothpicks.  Some of the toothpicks start to move.

Jacob rises out of the destruction, charred, scraped,

battered and, unfortunately, alive.  He climbs up to the edge

of the crater.  He looks back a the remnants of his home.

Then something starts to happen.

Something his growing from the crater - spreading out.  It's

not a cloud, it's not smoke - it's a DARKNESS.  Even though

it's night, this darkness is darker.  It creeps out from the

hole - fingers of blackness reaching out.  What it covers

doesn't disappear.  It becomes GLOOMY.  The shroud is getting

bigger.

And it's getting faster.  Jacob runs.

WITH JACOB - RUNNING

He bolts down the streets of the small town in a blind panic.

He looks behind him and sees the darkness getting bigger, its

gloominess covering houses.  Then whole blocks.

Everything it touches seems to fall deeper into SHADOW.

AT THE STREET CORNER

Jacob comes across a WOMAN walking her dog.  He stops and

yells at her.

Jacob points down the street.  The shroud is swooping down

the road - browning out street lights in its wake.  And the

woman doesn't find anything threatening about this.  Jacob

screams at her.

And it's obvious now: she doesn't see anything.  The Woman is

totally oblivious to the danger.  Jacob shakes his head --

stumbles away.

The woman watches him go as the darkness PASSES OVER HER.

She sighs.

And begins to MUTATE.  Her hair gets scraggly, her skin

bursts out in sores, her back grows a hump -- all of which

she DOESN'T seem to notice.

She just shrugs her twisted shoulders.

She hobbles away with her dog - which now has six legs and

two heads.

BACK WITH JACOB - RUNNING

Like a bat running from hell, he tears through the streets

passing buildings that turn creepy and people that become

passively accepting monsters.

A VOICE booms out from nowhere.

Jacob covers his ears and races out of town.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Jacob falls onto the deserted road just outside of town.  He

rolls on the asphalt and looks behind him.  most of the town

is covered in an opaque gloom.

Suddenly a CACKLING sound is heard and Jacob turns to its

source:

HIS POV: THE SPRINGWOOD SIGN

The town can still be seen behind it -- the darkness over

almost all of it now.  The sign reads: WELCOME TO SPRINGWOOD.

POPULATION...

And the numbers after the word "population" are changing.

They're counting BACKWARDS, clattering away like an old-time

gas pump in reverse - faster and faster - blurring as the

"thousands" digit disappears, then the "hundreds", then

"tens", then...

CLINK - the count stops at "1".  Springwood is entirely

engulfed in the shroud.  There is a pause.

CRASH - the sign is violently YANKED into the ground.  It

vanishes into the earth and a CRACK APPEARS at the edge of

the road. The crack grows - moving out to the center of the

highway.

BACK ON THE STREET

Jacob watches the crack as it splits wider in the middle of

the street and a GURGLING sound starts to build.  The tar in

front of Jacob becomes molten.  It bubbles and pops.

Jacob scrambles backwards as something begins to rise from

boiling asphalt.

It's a hat.

The hat, a fedora to be precise, pushes itself up. A left

hand - burned and scarred - pokes out next to it.  Four sharp

blades jut out of the muck on the other side.  A head is up

now - a curtain of tar dripping from the rim of the hat -

hiding the face.  The body beneath the head ascends.  The

veil of asphalt parts:

It's FREDDY KRUEGER.  Jacob SCREAMS.

Freddy LAUGHS.  He shakes off his layer of tar and looks

towards the clouded town of Springwood.  A look of pure

hatred appears on his ragged face.

Freddy opens his mouth - lets out a large breath - and then

INHALES an even larger one.

A WINDSTORM starts, the source being Krueger's own lungs.

The gale force begins to yank at the shroud surrounding

Springwood.  Fingers of darkness pull up from the town and

towards Freddy's mouth -- and houses begin to DISSOLVE.

Freddy continues to inhale like he's never going to stop.

Krueger is sucking the black gloom into his body - and the

entire town of Springwood is going with it.  Trees,

buildings, cars, picket fences.  It's all crumbling and

fusing, becoming a part of t cloud that itself is caught in

the nightmarish wind tunnel, all piling into Freddy's mouth.

The vortex swirls into Krueger.  Then it's gone.  Nothing but

a vacant lot the size of a town remains.  Freddy turns to

Jacob and BURPS, it sounds like a THUNDERCLAP.

Freddy reaches down and yanks up his red and green sweater.

He pulls apart his putrid abdomen to reveal his guts - and a

transparent stomach.

Inside the stomach: a black swirling mass.  Flashes of

houses, people, homes, couples, all trapped in horrible

anguish.  Freddy drops down his sweater.

Freddy reaches his left hand into the bubbling tar at his

feet, digs around a bit, then pulls out:

ALICE.  Jacob's mother.  Tar dripping down her body.  Krueger

has her by the neck, waves his blades in front of her.  Jacob

gets up and runs toward him.

Freddy pulls a foot up from the asphalt pit and KICKS Jacob

back a good fifteen feet.

The boy rolls painful on the hard road.  He sits up and

screams:

Freddy swings his knives out, pauses for a terrifying beat,

then swoops the daggers towards Alice.

CLOSE ON JACOB

as OFF SCREEN we hear a horrible multiple GLITCH!  Jacob

shrieks in gut-wrenching anguish.

WIDE ON SCENE

We're far enough away so that we don't barf at the sight but

close enough to see that Freddy has impaled Alice's body on

his blades.  He lifts her up effortlessly and raises her limp

figure RIGHT OVER HIS HEAD.

Krueger swings his arm out, shaking off Alice, sending her

flying over Jacob's head.  The body lands behind him.

ON JACOB

as he runs to his mother.  She VANISHES just as he reaches

out to touch her bloody body.  He turns to Krueger and raises

his fists.  A look of sheer rage is growing in him, blind,

insane anger.  He bellows:

Suddenly, between Jacob and Freddy, three SHAFTS OF LIGHT

burst up from the road.  Three FIGURES appear as the light

dissipates.

They're dressed in metallic black, heavy boots, helmets with

dark visors covering their faces.  One is large and muscular.

The one in the center has an obviously feminine figure under

her skin-tight outfit.  The third is a little smaller than

the other two with a slightly different face  that allows us

to see his mouth.

They're the DREAM POLICE.  Jacob doesn't know this yet, but

Freddy seems to.  The bastard son of a hundred maniacs frowns

at the sight of these new apparitions.

Then he looks past them and smiles at Jacob.

Freddy violently DROPS down into the bubbling asphalt pit.

Two of the black figures start after him.  The third one

turns to Jacob as his partners leap into the hole after

Freddy.  The sound from his exposed mouth is DEAFENING!

Jacob grabs his ears in pain as we suddenly:

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Jacob's eyes snap open so fast his sockets suffer whiplash.

He's lying smack in the middle of the road tucked in a fetal

position.  Jacob slowly uncurls his body and sits up.  He

shivers and wipes his sweaty forehead - and that's when he

notices something in his hand.

INSERT: JACOB'S HAND

it's a bracelet, a simple band of gold with a larger plate in

the middle, like an ID band.  Jacob's fingers turn the plate

over. Printed on the other side is the name of the bracelet's

former owner: ALICE.  Jacob has a souvenir.

BACK TO JACOB

He raises his face and looks at the road in front of him.  It

goes off into the distance surrounded on both sides by empty

fields.

This is where Springwood used to be.  A look of anguish

crosses Jacob's face as he stares at the desolation.

HONK!  SCREECH!

Jacob whips his head around in time to see a huge moving van

blasting right at him.  He rolls off to the side of the road.

The truck barely misses him, kicking up a cloud of dust in

its wake.

Jacob chokes on the dust.  He slowly recovers and looks back

down at the bracelet in his hand. He clenches his fist around

it as a wild-eyed angry look starts to grow on him.  He takes

a few deep breaths, then stands up and walks OUT OF FRAME.

ANGLE DOWN THE HIGHWAY

We can see a pickup truck in the distance. Jacob's HAND

ENTERS FRAME, thumb sticking out, his mother's bracelet

dangling from his wrist.

The pickup truck starts to slow down.

EXT. ROSEDALE - DAY

A sprawling little community with pleasant streets and

cheerful houses.  It looks a lot like Springwood, the only

real difference being that it actually exists.  It also has a

sign: WELCOME TO ROSEDALE.  POPULATION: 8,786

A Volkswagon bus drives past the sign and stops a couple of

blocks down the road from us.  Jacob steps out of the

passenger side and wearily waves his ride goodbye.  He

shuffles into town.

CLOSE ON YET ANOTHER SIGN

It reads: DRUG ADDICTS NOT WELCOME TO ROSEDALE!

The sign pulls away to reveal a middle-aged man with an angry

expression: MR. HOPKINS

He walks along as we PULL BACK TO SEE

EXT. ROSEDALE FOSTER HOME - DAY

It's a nice-looking two-story house in the middle of a

usually quiet neighborhood.  Today the home is surrounded by

about a dozen townsfolk carrying picket signs: NO HALFWAY

HOUSES IN OUR NEIGHBORHOOD!, DON'T LOWER OUR PROPERTY

VALUES!, and GO BACK TO JUVENILE HALL!  The crowd mumbles

amongst itself, occasionally bursting out with a chant in

protest.

ON JACOB

We catch him walking down the sidewalk.  He tramps along with

his hands stuffed in his pockets and his eyes on the

pavement.  He looks like he hasn't slept in days.  The sound

of the crowd ahead of him finally grabs his attention.

Jacob approaches the disturbance and comes across a young

girl standing behind a bush holding a BAG OF GROCERIES.  She

is KAREN MILLER, dark hair, sixteen, very pretty, but with a

faraway look in her eyes.

Jacob stands next to her and stares at the crowd like a

zombie.  She doesn't turn to look at him as he speaks:

Karen hasn't looked at Jacob once.  She suddenly seems to

steel herself and walks away from the bush, towards the

house.  Jacob is befuddled.

He stands there and watches.

IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE

Karen quickly makes her way into the crowd of people, head

up, eyes staring forward.  The crowd parts ever so slightly

as the irked townsfolk start to heat up.  They have an actual

human to vent their anger on now.  Mr. Hopkins lays in on her

as she passes him.

Karen turns to him, still walking, flustered and hurt.

Karen turns quickly away from him and trips over a sprinkler

head.  Her groceries tumble onto the grass.  A hand reaches

down to help her.  It's Jacob's.

He quietly helps her re-bag her groceries as Mr. Hopkins

looms above them.  Both angry and embarrassed now.

Jacob can't take this guy anymore.  He stands up and faces

the older man with a scowl.

Jacob stares at Hopkins.  He doesn't answer.  He just huffs

and puffs as Karen grabs Jacob and pulls him up to the front

porch of the home, then into the floor.

INT. FOSTER HOME - FRONT HALLWAY - DAY

Karen slams the door and takes a deep breath.

Jacob suddenly gets a little light-headed and has to use a

wall to hold himself up.  Karen looks concerned.

She smiles and leads him further into the house.

INT. FOSTER HOME - KITCHEN - DAY

Jacob is feverishly eating a sandwich at the table while

Karen finishes putting the rest of the food away.

FOOTSTEPS are heard from below and a couple in their mid-

thirties enter from the basement door.  They're DAVID and

MARY ROSS, both greasy and frustrated.

They both start washing up at the sink, not really noticing

the teenagers in the room.  Karen speaks up.

David gives Jacob a wary glance as the boy stands shakily.

David is looking out the window at the now dissipating crowd.

He lets out a weary sigh.

There is an uncomfortable pause.  Then Karen suddenly breaks

in.

Jacob gives here a surprised look.

Jacob reaches for his back pocket - it's empty.  He shakes

his head "no".

David doesn't acknowledge his wife, he just stares at Jacob

sternly.  Karen bites her nails.  Then David sits down and

starts to lecture.

David gets up.  He gives Jacob a final once-over.

David leaves the room.  Karen gives Jacob a huge grin.

INT. FOSTER HOME - THE TV ROOM - DAY

Karen leads Jacob into the room.  There are two teenagers on

the couch: WESLEY is a fifteen-year old, curly hair, kind of

small.  GINA is also fifteen, brunette hair, seems pretty

happy.

Another kid, SCOTT, pops into the room.  He's sixteen, dark

hair, with a tough-guy I could give a shit attitude.  He

doesn't seem to care about anybody in the room, except for

Karen.

Scott notices Jacob and frowns.  Karen is a little annoyed.

Scott reaches into his shirt pocket and pulls out a pack of

cigarettes.  As he lights one up, Wesley's cheerful attitude

suddenly turns grim.  He gets up from the couch and quickly

leaves the room.  Karen gives Scott an angry look.

This really pisses Jacob off.  These two are not going to get

along very well.

Scott lets out an aloof puff of smoke and leaves.  Jacob

gives Karen a confused glance.

Jacob sits down on the couch and lets that sink in.  Gina

scootches away from him on the couch, then gives him a glum

look.

Karen is staring out the window.  She has that spaced-out

expression we saw before when she was hiding behind the bush.

No one has anything left to say.  Gina turns the sound on the

TV back up as the three sad kids start to watch cartoons.

INT. FOSTER HOME - THE TV ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob is alone in the dark watching some kind of NICK AT

NIGHT b&w sit-com re-run.  A cheerful family lovingly banters

away on the flickering tube.  Jacob just stares blankly.

Karen sleepily shows up at the doorway in a long tee-shirt

with a glass of milk.

Karen gives him a worried look and heads off to bed.  Jacob

continues watching TV with a creepy glean in his tired eyes.

INT. OLD WAREHOUSE - DAY

The kids are here cleaning up the building.  The guys throw

rotted lumber into trash bins while the girls sweep up.  We

catch Jacob and Scott tossing some debris into a wheelbarrow.

Jacob looks pretty ragged.

Jacob grabs the handles of the wheelbarrow and shakily picks

it up.  Scott sneers.

Jacob ignores him and pushes the wheelbarrow along.  Scott

takes some time off to smoke a cigarette.  He spots Karen

across the room bending over with a dustbin.  Scott lingers

on this view for a long time.

AT A DUMPSTER

Jacob pulls up with the wheelbarrow and starts to unload the

junk.  Gina is next to the dumpster sweeping.  She tries to

push a large crate aside by herself, but slips and falls.

Jacob jumps over to her, reaches out, and grabs her arm to

help her up.

Gina SCREAMS.

She shakes off his grip and he jumps back.  She runs away

with a wild look in her eyes as Karen steps up to a confused

Jacob.

Jacob looks off at Gina with genuine concern.  Karen gives

him the same expression.

He gives her a gentle squeeze on the forearm, and Karen likes

it.  Jacob spots a pile of wood next to a wall and heads off

for it.

ON SCOTT

He's watched the entire interchange between Jacob and Karen,

and he DOESN'T like it.

WITH JACOB

as he goes around the stack of lumber and sits down facing

the brick wall.  He lets out a heavy sigh and stares at the

inside of the building.

JACOB'S POV - THE BRICK WALL

sits there quietly for a few beats until:

IT EXPLODES

Bricks fly out at us as a gaping hole blows into the wall

revealing nothing but BLACKNESS and our shot MOVES through:

DREAM FLASHES - NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD

Horrifying apparitions and images ZOOM by us.  Gloomy

buildings under a pitch black sky.  MUTANTS and twisted

MONSTERS.  Shadowy streets and dark alleyways.  And FIVE

RAZOR-BLADE FINGERS suddenly ripping right through the sky

and down upon us as a VOICE rings out.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY - ON JACOB

Jacob's eyes are closed as a SUPERVISOR looms above him.

The boy's eyes snap open and he jumps to his feet like a

babbling crazy man.

The supervisor backs off from Jacob as he slowly gets used to

reality again.

Jacob calms down and nods.  He walks away, snatching a

nervous glance at the perfectly normal brick wall.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - NIGHT

We watch as various lit windows go dark and the residents of

the house go to bed.

INT. WESLEY & JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Wesley is getting in bed.  Jacob is sitting in a chair

staring out the window.  Wes switches off the lights and

turns to Jacob.

Jacob cracks a weary smile in the darkness.

Wesley shakes his head and gets under the covers.  Jacob

continues to stare out the window, desperately trying to keep

his eyes open.

JACOB'S POV - THROUGH WINDOW

the trees sway quietly in the breeze outside.  There is a

pause.  Then we are suddenly PULLED THROUGH THE WINDOW,

SMASHING glass, careening back into:

DREAM FLASH - NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD

We SAIL through the gloomy air, over the creepy buildings.

And suddenly DIP DOWN, right for the street, and end up

CRUISING three inches off the asphalt, really ripping down

the road until we grind to a SUDDEN HALT.  Right in front of:

FREDDY'S FEET.  Our shot TILTS UP.  Freddy looms above us and

grins.

He LAUGHS, his mouth gaping wide, and then splitting open

impossibly wider.  Something starts pouring out of his mouth,

right at us.

Hundreds of GIANT BUGS spew down upon us, covering us

completely as everything goes to BLACK and we:

INT. WESLEY & JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

ON JACOB

his eyes are open, his mouth is hanging in a SILENT SCREAM.

It looks like his head is about to explode.  He lifts his

hand up to his face.  He's holding an eight-inch long MONSTER

BUG.

Jacob SCREAMS out loud this time, tosses the mutant insect

away.  It lands on a windowsill and escapes out the opening.

Jacob jumps to his feet, sending his chair tumbling backwards

with a CRASH.  He shakes and moans, a little drool dripping

down his chin.

Wesley sits up with a start and stares at Jacob.

Jacob catches his breath, gives Wes a dead serious look.

Wesley is shocked by Jacob's manic state and jumps out of

bed.

INT. FOSTER HOME - TV ROOM - NIGHT

Five kids are gathered around the room in various stages of

sleepy grumpiness and annoyed disbelief.  Jacob paces back

and forth.

Wesley, the most gullible of the group, looks pretty scared.

Scott gets up and goes to a desk.  He pulls out a map and

shows it to Jacob.

Jacob looks at the map and points.

Scott stares at Jacob.  He actually grows sympathetic.

Jacob plops down on the couch, defeated.  He hangs his head

while the kids start to get up.  Wesley gives him a pat on

the back as he, Scott, and Gina leave.  But Karen is still

here.

She sits next to a window with a faraway look in her eyes.

Jacob looks up at her.

Karen smiles and sits down next to him.

She reaches for the remote control and flicks on the TV,

moving a little closer to Jacob when she sits back into the

couch.  The two of them watch the screen with glassy eyes.

They continue to watch in silence as Karen takes hold of

Jacob's hand.

INT. FOSTER HOME - THE TV ROOM - MORNING

We are ON KAREN as she sleeps curled up on the couch.  Jacob

is in the background putting on his shoes.  He has a brown

paper bag with him.

Jacob gets up, grabs his bag, and steps over to Karen.  He

gently pulls a lock of hair away from her face.  Then he

heads for the front door.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - FRONT PORCH - DAY

Jacob walks out the door and closes it behind him.  He

crosses to the porch steps and stops.  He has to hold onto a

porch column just to keep standing.

Karen appears behind him.  Jacob jumps a bit.

Karen has an angry expression on his face.  Jacob gives her a

pained look.

Karen, though still very angry, looks like she's about to

cry.  Jacob, confused, sits down on the porch steps.

He sighs and smiles a bit.

This time Karen smiles.  Jacob looks at her and sighs.  Then

he yawns.

Karen jumps and heads back into the house.  Jacob stares at

the grass in front of him, his eyes heavy.

JACOB'S POV - THE LAWN

A bush sits there doing nothing.  Until it suddenly comes TO

LIFE.  Its leaves start to shrivel, the lawn turns brown, the

sky turns dark.  Everything changes and turns into

DREAM FLASH - NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD

We're in a different front yard in a different town, in a

different dimension.

The mutant bush starts to change, sprout legs, grow arms,

become human.

ALICE

Her body takes shape as she reaches out a pleading arm to us.

She's fully formed now.  And Freddy bursts out from the

ground behind her.  He grabs Alice, reaches his knife arm

around

Her words are cut off as Krueger jams his blades in her gut

and we re-live her death once more.  But it's even worse this

time.

Blood POURS from Alice like a burst fire hydrant, spraying

and showering the entire nightmare lawn like a human

sprinkler.  Freddy LAUGHS.

Jacob's voice rips through the scene as everything starts to

BLUR RED.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - FRONT LAWN - DAY

Jacob is lying in the grass, violently shaking.  Karen drops

down next to him.

His body jerks around as if caught in the throes of an

epileptic seizure.  He SHRIEKS, ignoring Karen completely,

and continues to shriek and scream and yell and shake.  Like

he's never going to stop.

EXT. MR. HOPKINS' FRONT DOOR - DAY

We're directly across the street from the Foster Home as

Jacob's cries echo through the neighborhood.  Mr. Hopkins

opens the front door.  He sees what's going on, scowls, and

yells into his house.

He watches the commotion growing across the street, and never

once moves to help.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - MOMENTS LATER

Jacob is being strapped into a stretcher, babbling

incoherently.  The residents of the Foster Home stand off to

the side while neighbors gawk from the street.  Karen is next

to the AMBULANCE GUYS looking frantic.

Jacob grabs the Ambulance Guy.

The ambulance guy straps Jacob's arm down.  Mr. Ross grabs

Karen and pulls her away as they start loading the crazed

teenager into the ambulance.  Scott shakes his head.  Wesley

looks terrified.  Gina keeps her distance from any human.

Karen can't take it and runs into the house.  Mr. Ross

frowns.

The ambulance drives away as the gathered crowd stares at the

kids angrily.

INT. AMBULANCE - DAY

Jacob yells and struggles as an Ambulance Guy prepares a

syringe for injection.

The ambulance guy holds Jacob down and slams the needle home.

Jacob screams and his eyes start to glass over.

Jacob's head starts to go limp.  A VOICE rings out in the

van, a voice only Jacob hears:

LAUGHTER echoes as Jacob turns his head towards a window.

EXT. A STREET CORNER - DAY

The ambulance zooms by.  All is quiet for a second until

CRASH! A twisted rusty sign post erupts out of the sidewalk

and settles at an ugly angle.

It's an ELM ST. sign.

INT. AMBULANCE - DAY

We PULL BACK from a wide awake Jacob, who is now suddenly

alone in the van.  Outside the window there is only darkness.

Jacob twists and struggles on the stretcher as

CLANG! the ambulance doors crash open revealing BLACKNESS and

KA-BOOM!  the stretcher is shot out of the van like a

cannonball.

INT. WAREHOUSE - DAY

The stretcher with Jacob BLASTS through a wall and starts to

race across the floor of the building that Jacob had been

sweeping up the day before.

It careens along, actually taking a few turns, like it has a

mind of its own, heading for a shallow pit in the middle of

the warehouse.

The stretcher hits the pit, drops a bit, swings up violently,

and stops in a vertical position like a rake that has been

stepped on AND A BLACK HUMAN SHAPE shoots out of Jacob's body

from intertial force, staying upright as it slides across the

floor, spins, stops, then changes into:

FREDDY KRUEGER

Freddy has his hands on his hips and a grin on his face.

He saunters up to Jacob who is still strapped to the vertical

stretcher.  Krueger waves his knives and wiggles his tongue.

Freddy raises his blades and SWINGS.  The straps around Jacob

drop away as his body falls to the floor.  He scrambles to

his feet and starts to RUN.

Freddy laughs

WITH JACOB - RUNNING

as he heads for a door.  Before he gets there, the door

swings open and Freddy leans casually in his way.

Jacob turns right around and races back across the warehouse.

AT THE DUMPSTER

Jacob races around to the other side and there's Krueger

again.

Freddy cranks up his knives and looms over Jacob.  And three

FLASHES OF LIGHT blast out behind the boy.  Jacob rolls away

as Freddy holds up an arm to block the blinding glare.  The

light fades.  The DREAM POLICE have arrived.

We'll call the small one SOUND COP.  He stands there

motionless as a loud and horrible GROWING noise emanates from

his clenched teeth.  This guy's bark is worse than his bite.

The female in black is BLADE COP.  From nowhere she produces

two nasty-looking knives, one in each hand.  She spins the

blades in the air like an expert Samurai.

The large one we'll call POWER COP.  He reaches out for the

dumpster, and with one hand sends it tumbling away with a

CRASH.  Freddy frowns.

The Dream Police fan out around Krueger, surrounding him.

Power Cop leaps at Freddy, grabs him and TOSSES him in the

air.  Freddy tumbles, rolls and bounces right back up on his

feet.  Right next to BLADE.

She swings her knives.  Freddy dodges.  Swings hi own blades

at her.  She ducks.  Freddy spins again.  Right towards:

SOUND COP.  The short man in black opens his mouth and a

sound like a foghorn at a rock concert BLARES OUT.  The force

of it hitting Freddy like a fist.

Freddy bounces back.  And once again he nimbly pops up.  He

glares at the Dream Police.

And Freddy starts to SPIN.  Slowly at first, then faster and

faster, until his image starts to BLUR.

The Police circle the whirling image, holding back to see

what will happen next.  Krueger stops spinning.  And his

clothes are different.  His red and green stripes have been

replaced by black and white ones.  There is a number printed

across his chest.  He's dressed like a CONVICT.  Freddy

grins.

BOOM!  A hole is suddenly blown in the high ceiling above

Krueger.  The building is suddenly filled with the beams of

moving SPOTLIGHTS and the sound of blasting SIRENS.

A rope falls down through the hole.  Freddy grabs it and

WHOOSH! he's yanked up.

and away he's gone.  After a few seconds the spotlights fade

away and the sirens die.  The Dream Police look up seemingly

unsure of their next action.  Then Power Cop kicks a pile of

lumber, sending wood flying dozens of yards away.

Sound Cop shakes his head.  Blade looks frustrated.  Jacob

steps up behind them.

The black-clad trio turn around in unison and look at Jacob.

There is a pause.  Then:

Jacob almost laughs.

Power Cop turns to Sound Cop and flips up his visor revealing

his face.  He's a sixteen-year old black boy.  Heavyset

features, sweat dripping down his cheeks.  He's KINCAID from

NIGHTMARE 3.  And he's pissed.

Sound Cop flips up his helmet.  He's JOEY, the former mute

boy.

She takes her helmet completely off, long dark hair tumbling

over her shoulders.  It's TARYN, the ex-junkie.  These three,

they're the Dream Warriors.  Or at least they used to be.

The three of them stop bickering and turn to Jacob.  Blade

walks up to Jacob.  Her two partners assume position behind

her.

Blade puts her helmet back on.  Her face turns grim.

All three of them drop their visors down at the same time.

Jacob's voice starts to GARBLE. He keeps trying to talk but

the words come out twisted and clipped.  He raises a hand to

his throat.  The hand is transparent.  Jacob looks at his

body as it slowly starts to disappear and now he's completely

mute.

Jacob vanishes completely.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob opens his eyes.  He's in bed, dressed in a white smock.

A DOCTOR stands next to him with a clipboard in hand.

Jacob starts getting out of bed.

Jacob drops back in bed.  The doctor goes to the door and

turns out the lights.

He closes the door behind him...

and we hear it LOCK

A CRAZED LUNATIC

suddenly SCREAMING into the lens with desperation.  Dark

circles under bloodshot eyes, hair matted with sweat.  A guy

not having a good day.  WE PULL BACK TO REVEAL:

The man is tightly bound in a regulation straight-jacket in a

tiny, claustrophobic holding cell.  We can now tell that the

image is in BLACK AND WHITE.  We continue PULLING BACK

INT. FOSTER HOME - TV ROOM - NIGHT

Gina sits on the couch with a stark white blanket on her lap,

watching a b&w 1940's potboiler with something less than

enthusiasm.  Wesley appears in the doorway, checking out the

source of the screaming.  He looks at Gina, who tosses the

blanket aside and rises, frowning.  The lunatic on television

continues his blood-curdling SHRIEKS.

She smiles at Wes as she exits.

Wesley murmurs a goodnight, then looks back at the screen:

ON THE TV

Some orderlies enter the lunatic's cell and attempt to sedate

him as he thrashes violently, SCREAMING bloody murder.  It is

gritty and awful but somehow riveting.

WESLEY

moves to the couch, clearly mesmerized by the scene.  He

curls up, absently pulling the white blanket around him as he

watches:

ON THE TV

The orderlies in the movie manage to get the needle into

their patient, who MOANS and SOBS pathetically.

The second orderly leans on a wall and pulls out a pack of

cigarettes from the pocket of his scrubs.  (He bears a

suspicious resemblance to ROBERT ENGLUND.)

WESLEY

vaguely tenses at this and absently pulls the blanket more

tightly around him to compensate, like a cocoon.

ON THE TV

The second orderly smiles.

The orderly produces a pack of matches.  He goes to the

lunatic on the cot, and LIGHTS the match off the guy's

forehead.  As the match FLARES, the lunatic SCREAMS.

CLOSE ON WESLEY

he shuts his eyes tensely as the SOUND is magnified, becoming

a sudden ROAR that fills the room.

Wesley blinks his eyes open, looks around from his blanket

cocoon.  Whatever that last sound was, it did NOT come from

the TV.

Beads of sweat line his upper lip as he nervously glances

about the room.  It remains quiet, serene.  Deciding it was

his imagination reacting to the scene on TV, Wesley nestles

back on the couch, laying down now as the CAMERA MOVES TO

REVEAL

The carpet at the edge of the room is bunched up as though

the walls of the room itself have budged a few inches inward.

BACK ON THE TV the second orderly lights his cigarette as he

hands the pack to the first.  They both look down at the

madman as they savor their cigarettes.

Wesley's brow furrows, reacting to the coincidence.  Then he

stiffens as the two orderlies in the movie begin to hold the

lit cigarettes over the lunatic's face

OUR Wesley has seen about enough of this movie.  He starts to

get up

but finds that he can't move.  The white blanket around him

restraining him tightly like the straight-jacket on TV.  He

squirms and struggles.

He struggles harder now, but to no avail.  He's wrapped

tight, like a cigarette.

ON THE TV the two orderlies torment the straight-jacketed

lunatic, poking his face with their lit cigarettes.  As the

lunatic SCREAMS, the screams become magnified, again becoming

that loud, deafening ROAR we heard before.  Wesley squirms in

his blanket/ straight-jacket, he jerks his head around,

SEEING with each of the man's SCREAMS, the walls of the room

SHUDDER INWARD and

Wesley's EYES WIDEN with horror as he realizes not only is he

TRAPPED like a sardine in his stark white blanket, but the

walls of the room are starting to CLOSE IN on him.  He SPINS

back to the TV set, where:

The first orderly is now looking AT US.  Wesley REACTS as he

notices something familiar about the man's face.

The second orderly BOLTS into view.  He has become Freddy

Krueger.

As they hold their smokes out TOWARD US, their arms PROTRUDE

FROM THE TV SET with their lit cigarettes.

Wesley SCREAMS and jerks his head away from TV and he HITS

the floor with an ugly THUMP.  The wind knocked out of him.

He rolls.  The couch is GONE.

As he squirms and struggles to escape his white cocoon, the

frightened boy looks around and sees that everything in the

room - furniture, carpet, TV, even the door - are all gone,

leaving just the white walls SLOWLY CLOSING IN ON HIM.

Then we see that on the floor all around Wesley are long,

cylindrical white objects.  Clearly, they resemble GIANT

CIGARETTES, and Wesley - wrapped neck-to-toe in his white

blanket cocoon - looks just like one of them.

He continues to squirm and SCREAM as the walls CLOSE IN from

all sides -- closer -- CLOSER -- pushing the long white

things toward him, around him, bunching them together until

they are in a tight cluster, as the room CRUNCHES IN TIGHTLY,

blocking whatever light source there is, until all Wesley can

do is SCREAM one last time, and

The screen goes BLACK.

After a few beats, we hear a huge, deafening RIPPING SOUND,

and a new LIGHT SOURCE appears as  Wesley looks up, eyes wide

with unspeakable horror as the giant, scarred face of FREDDY

looms over him, grinning, and we:

INT. FOSTER HOME - TV ROOM

The room is back to normal, but not the occupant.  Freddy

Krueger now stands here alone.  He has just peeled the

wrapper off a pack of cigarettes of which Wesley has become

one.

Krueger reaches in and pulls the tiny Wesley out of the pack.

As before, Wesley is immobile, helpless.  Freddy holds him

between two fingers.

Freddy looks around, as if searching for something, then

beams as he reaches into the air and...

He produces a puny version of WESLEY'S FATHER In one hand.

His body is straight and rigid, like a match stick.

Freddy places his thumb on the stiff man's head, and flicks

his thumbnail, causing the man's skull to BURST INTO FLAME,

an evil grin spanning Wesley's Father's face.

He brings the Father-Match to what would be Wesley's tiny

feet, and lights the end.

VERY CLOSE ON FREDDY'S HAND

Wesley SCREAMS as Freddy tosses the FATHER-MATCH and brings

the teenager's little head up to his fire-scarred lips.

The boy is enveloped by the massive cracked opening as Freddy

takes a huge drag off of Wesley's head. Where his feet should

be, the tip of the Wesley-Cig GLOWS RED, causing Wesley to

SCREAM with supernatural pain.  Smoke billows from Freddy's

nose and mouth.  He savors it.

He CACKLES horribly as he continues to suck on the Wesley-

Cig.  With each puff, Wesley's white-wrapped body becomes

slat-black ash.

In between his demonic CACKLES, Freddy DRAGS on the Wesley-

Cig, each puff turning more of Wesley into ash until all but

his head is black and charred.  Freddy holds the Wesley-Cig

out, poised to tap the ashes loose.

Freddy grins.

And he taps the Wesley-cig with his finger.  The ashes

immediately fall, sifting in the air as Wesley's head -

charred and black at the neck where it's been separated -

falls loose.  Wesley SCREAMS.

and his severed head falls and falls and falls.

INT. FOSTER HOME - TV ROOM - THE NEXT DAY

WE START on WESLEY'S BODY.  Eyes closed, head normal and

everything from the neck down charred mass of burnt torso,

shriveled limbs, all wrapped in the scorched blanket.  ZIP.

A body bag hides this ghastly image from us as we PULL BACK.

A FIRE MARSHALL and a COP are talking at the doorway in the

background.  The CORONER is here, a world weary seen-it-all

older guy, with his nervous ASSISTANT who's never seen

anything like this.  They whisper their conversation as they

lift the body bag onto a stretcher.

We FOLLOW them as they push the stretcher towards the

doorway.

Our shot STOPS at the doorway with the fire Marshall and cop

while the wigged-out assistant's voice trails off outside.

The cop makes some notes.  Behind them we see Scott, Karen

and Gina.  The girls have been crying, and even tough-guy

Scott looks pretty screwed up by all this.  The cop nods.

The kids shoot unbelieving looks at each other as the two men

walk off.

Scott and Karen head for the front door.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - DAY

A coroner's van, a fire chief's car and the now familiar mob

of suspicious neighbors are gathered around the front of the

house as the stretcher with Wesley's body is put away.  A

small van marked ROSEDALE GENERAL HOSPITAL pulls up and Jacob

jumps out of it.

Jacob's face turns grim as a tearful Karen runs up to him,

Scott following.

Mr. Ross appears behind the three teenagers, a wasted look on

his face.

David leads them back to the house as the coroner's van pulls

away.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Jacob, Scott, Karen and Gina stand around in various states

of utter shock as David tries to console them.

He puts an arm around Karen and reaches out to put the other

one around Gina, but pulls away at the last minute when she

starts to flinch.

The kids all nod, but not convincingly.  They care more about

Wesley than the house.

INT. WESLEY & JACOB'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jacob closes the door.  All the kids are here.  Gina

absentmindedly plays with some of Wesley's things.

Scott actually laughs.

Jacob is crushed that he's not getting through to them.

The kids stare emptily at Wesley's earthly possessions.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

Jacob and Karen sit on the steps.  Across the street we can

see window curtains part as Mr. Hopkins sneaks a wary peek.

She stands up.

INT. KAREN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob and Karen lie in bed, clothes on, cozy.  Not sexual.

She stares at the ceiling while he listens.

She stops and closes her eyes.  Jacob closes his eyes for a

second also - feeling her pain.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

Jacob opens his eyes and touches Karen's arm.  She finally

turns to him.

Jacob smiles, gets up and walks over to the bedroom door.

Karen is confused.

He opens the bedroom door.  And there's a FOREST OUTSIDE.

Karen is a little scared at first, totally blown away by

what's happening.  But then she stands up and smiles.

Karen steps up next to him and they walk through the doorway

into daylight.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Shafts of sunlight filter through as leaves flutter down from

the towering trees and Jacob and Karen step out of the

bedroom door.

Karen looks around.  Then she giggles.  She likes this a lot.

Karen suddenly runs away into the trees like an excited

little girl.  Jacob frowns.

He heads off after her.

AMONGST THE TREES

Jacob runs.  Karen jumps out from behind a tree and laughs.

She starts wandering off again.  Jacob follows her.

She ducks behind a tree.  And comes out suddenly dressed as a

sharp BUSINESSWOMAN.  Jacob is slightly taken aback.

Jacob grins as she steps behind another tree - and a FIREMAN

walks out in her place.  Jacob is really taken aback this

time.

Karen slips past another trunk and comes out as a tall

VOLUPTUOUS REDHEAD.

The redhead walks seductively towards Jacob.  He raises his

eyebrows as she slinks right up next to him - her ample

cleavage inches away from his nose.

He smiles.

DIFFERENT ANGLE

And now Karen is herself again.  They're still very close.

They look like they're about to kiss... but Karen suddenly

sees something that grabs her attention.

Jacob turns as Karen runs over to ANOTHER DOOR.  It's not the

one to the bedroom.  It just hangs there in space between two

trees.

She reaches for the knob and opens it.

But she's already stepped through.  Jacob runs up to the

doorway and it SLAMS in his face.  Jacob tries to open the

door.  It doesn't budge.  He keeps twisting the knob to no

effect.

Jacob starts to pound on the door as we:

INT. KAREN'S HOME - KITCHEN

Sixties style decore, appliances that look about twenty-five

years old -- not the Foster Home kitchen at all.  Karen is

standing in the middle of the room, completely disoriented.

She walks across to a counter top where she finds a framed

picture.

It's a picture of HER, Karen, age thirteen.  Karen sets the

picture down and quickly walks back to the door she came in.

INT. KAREN'S HOME - LOWER HALLWAY

Karen steps out of her old kitchen expecting, hoping to be

back in the forest again.  Nope.  She blinks.  Then she

starts to walk down the corridor.

More pictures on the wall this time.  One of a WOMAN and

another of a MAN (Karen's MOM and DAD).

Karen's sure of it now.  She's home.  The center of her worst

nightmares.  She creeps along to the main stairs.  And that's

when the NOISES begin.  A thumping from upstairs.  A CRASH,

like something hit the floor above.  More thumping,

repeatedly and then human MOANING, the sound of pain.

Somebody is getting beaten.

Something is twisting deep inside the girl.  Her face goes

shallow as she slowly shuffles around to the foot of the

stairs...and starts to climb them.

ON THE STAIRS

Karen goes up, step by painful step, as the sounds of the

BEATING increase in their intensity.  Every hit seems to

touch Karen as she flinches.  She's afraid to go on - but

can't seem to stop.

INT. KAREN'S HOME - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Karen slowly heads for a door at the end, nervously reaches

out for the knob.

INT. KAREN'S PARENT'S BEDROOM

Karen opens the door.  What she thought she was going to see

was bad enough - but this is worse:

Freddy Krueger is in the middle of the room.  In front of him

is a giant human-sized version of an inflatable punching

doll, the kind little kids hit that keep bouncing back.  But

the doll doesn't have the image of a clown on it.

It's a flattened wrapped-around version of KAREN'S MOTHER, a

pitiful beat-up look on her plastic face.

Freddy SMACKS the doll - it falls to the floor - and just

bounces back up.  And now the face on it has a NEW BRUISE.

THWACK!  He hits it again, CACKLING with glee.  Swoop,

bounce.  More bruises develop.  Krueger looks at Karen.

BAP!  BOOOOING!  The face on the punching doll changes again,

it's even sadder now.  And it's looking at Karen.

ZING!  Krueger whips up his finger knives.  SWOOP!  he RIPS

them through the plastic doll.  SISSSSSssss.  The doll starts

to deflate.  SKREEEEeeeee.  The escaping air sounding like a

human SCREAM.  Freddy turns to Karen.

And a HAND reaches out from behind her and pulls her out of

the room.

INT. KAREN'S HOME - UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Jacob pulls Karen away from the door and slams it shut. He

grabs her hand.

They turn to run down the hallway, and it's CHANGED.  There

are now NO DOORS and NO STAIRWAY.  The only way out is the

bedroom door they just closed.  They stop and Jacob turns to

Karen.

He begins to shake her.  She is confused and disoriented.  A

CRASH is heard at the bedroom door.  FREDDY'S COMING.

And Jacob HITS Karen.  Nothing major.  It's a good slap,

nonetheless.  She stares at him unbelievingly.  He WHACKS her

again.

SLAP!  Karen's getting angry.  She doesn't know what she's

supposed to do.  KA-BLAM!  Freddy blasts through the door in

a shower of splinters.  He sees them and grins.

Jacob turns to Karen, raises his hand.  KA-BLAM!  Something

blasts through the wall across from them.  It's POWER COP.

CRASH!  The other wall explodes.  BLADE appears in the

rubble.

BOOM!  A piece of wall falls down at the end of the corridor.

SOUND COP steps through.

Karen looks at all this nonsense, then at Jacob.

She closes her eyes and DISAPPEARS out of Jacob's hands.  The

DREAM POLICE stand in the hallway.  Freddy just puts his

hands on his hips and LAUGHS at them.

Then Krueger lays his arms flat on his sides, takes a deep

breath and begins to INFLATE.  His body expands, his clothes

and skin stretch and flatten.  The bottom half of him getting

fatter.

He turns into a giant FREDDY PUNCHING DOLL.

Power Cop jumps in front of the plastic horror and lets loose

a devastating swing.  POW!  The Freddy Doll swings back and

BOUNCES right up again.

POW POW POW POW POW!  The big Dream Cop pummels away at the

Krueger toy as it slaps back and forth between the floor and

his fist until SHINK!  Two knives appear in Blade's hands and

SWOOP.  She swings them out.

RIP!  The Freddy Doll tears, air blasting out in a grating

SHRIEK which screeches and hisses until it becomes:

Freddy's LAUGH.  The red and green plastic flutters to the

ground as the evil guffaws fade away and we:

INT. KAREN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Karen shakes Jacob awake.  His eyes open.  They stare at each

other for a few beats, then Karen frowns.

Karen is confused.  She doesn't know what to make of all

this.  She looks at a clock.  It's late.

Karen finally relaxes.  She smiles and playfully pushes him.

Jacob reaches under a pillow and pulls something out.  It's

the framed photo of Karen, age thirteen - from her dream.  He

hands it to her and she looks at it in astonishment.

He gets up and goes to the door, turning back to her.

She holds the picture tightly- staring at it with those

faraway eyes.

INT. FOSTER HOME - UPPER HALLWAY - NIGHT

Scott comes out of the bathroom in his night clothes, the

toilet flushing in the B.G.  He goes into his room, but stops

at the doorway when he hears Karen's door open.

Scott ducks behind his door as he watches Jacob leave Karen's

room and head for his own.  Scott frowns.  His is not

pleased.

INT. FOSTER HOME - DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

David Ross is sifting through some mail when a heated

conversation in the kitchen catches his interest.  He stops

to listen.

IN THE KITCHEN

Karen is finally convinced, Jacob and Scott are looking like

they're ready to punch each other, and Gina looks scared.

Mr. Ross enters the room, none too pleased.

Scott, Gina and Karen grudgingly leave the room.  David turns

to Jacob.

Jacob starts to get defiant.

David catches his breath.  He looks like he wants to say

more, but doesn't have the energy left.  He just walks out of

the room leaving a frustrated Jacob.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - NIGHT

Mr. and Mrs. Ross are getting into their car.  The engine

starts and they drive away.

INT. JACOB'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob sits in bed, staring into space.  Karen quietly enters

the room, carefully shutting the door behind her.

She sits down next to him.  Jacob looks at her with weary

eyes.

She nods her head quietly.  Then

She kisses him quickly on the cheek.  He needed that.  Karen

gets up and quietly leaves.  Jacob yawns

INT. GINA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Gina sits on her bed in her night clothes.  She holds a deck

of cards in one hand while she plays solitaire on her bed

sheets.

She flips a card from her deck: A black nine.  She puts it on

top of a ten.  Another card.  Queen of diamonds.  She lays it

on top of a king of clubs.  Gina yawns.  Takes another card.

It's the Freddy of Spades.

Gina frowns.  Freddy Krueger's image stares up at her from

the card.  She looks at her stacks.  There's no place to put

this one.  She starts flipping through the deck of cards,

trying to see if there are any more Freddys.  That's when a

HAND RIPS UP through the bed and grabs her arm.

Gina SCREAMS, pulls away from the hand's grip and jumps back

up on the bed.  And ANOTHER HAND shoots up from a pillow and

grabs her shoulder.  Gina twists.

RIP.  TEAR.  GRAB.  More hands appear out of the mattress,

lunging for any part of Gina's body as she SHRIEKS from their

touch.  And Gina jumps out of bed.

She leaps to the other side of the room, bumping against her

dresser drawers.  Turns to her bed.

SWOOP.  The multiple hands disappear down into the mattress.

There is a quiet beat as she catches her shivering breath.

Then a half-dozen ARMS AND HANDS pop out from the drawers

next to her.  Latching indiscriminately.  Some grabbing her

legs and arms.  Some grabbing more intimate parts.

Gina SCREAMS.  Pulls away from the dresser.  Yanks a few

drawers out as the hands vanish and she spins over to another

wall.

Where the wall ERUPTS with outreaching arms all around her.

Two grab her hair.  Three on each arm.  Her legs are pinned.

Gina shrieks and yells and flays her arms.  Beating the hands

with her fists as two grabs her breasts viciously.  She

starts kicking as one particularly perverse hand BURNT AND

SCARRED, pops out between her legs.  Aiming right for her

crotch and in an incredible show of strength, the girl pulls

away from the horde.

Gina heads for the door.  CRASH.  Hands blast up from the

wood floor.  She leaps around them.  CRASH.  More hands try

to block her way.

Gina jumps around like she's in a mine field made of hot

coals.  She finally reaches to door and flings it open.

INT. ELEVATOR

Gina hits the lift's opposite wall having expected it to be a

hallway.  The elevator's doors close on her bedroom and she

turns to see:

Freddy.  A razor finger poised over the elevator's buttons.

He smiles politely.

Gina is shocked and speechless.  She backs away into a corner

like someone trapped in a closet with the devil.  Which is

exactly what she is.

Rising past the terror is Gina's realization that everything

Jacob's been saying is true.

He punches one of the buttons and the elevator LURCHES.  Gina

grabs onto a wall as the lift races up and Freddy actually

begins to WHISTLE nonchalantly.

The elevator begins to slow.

The elevator stops.  The doors begin to open.  Gina leaps for

the way out.  But she's blocked.

Blocked by PEOPLE.  They fill the entrance to the lift and

start to pile in.  All kinds of people: businessmen, nurses,

plumbers.  And they're all ZOMBIES.

Vacant expressions fill their dark hollow eyes as the zombies

keep coming in.  Pushing Gina back into the elevator.

Filling it to capacity and beyond.

The doors close and the elevator starts to move up.  Twenty

bodies are crammed into the tiny enclosure, smashed together,

surrounding the poor teenager, drool oozing out of their

mouths, breathing down her neck.  SMASHING her so hard she

can't even yell for help.  Gina turns her head.

WESLEY is pressed up next to her.  A very dead look on his

face.  Begin squeezed by the zombies around him.  One of his

eyes POPS out of its socket.

Gina finds the breath to scream and scream and scream.

The elevator doors open and the mass of zombies starts to

spastically pile out.  Gina, having only been held up by the

crushing bodies, falls to her knees as the last of the

monsters exit the lift.  She breathes in ripping gasps like

she's having a coronary.  But she sees the open door.  And

Gina jumps for the exit.

Freddy grabs her shoulder and pulls her back violently.  Gina

falls to the floor again as the doors shut.  Freddy waves his

fingers down the row of buttons and stops above the very

bottom one.  This button doesn't looks like the others.

It's in the shape of a little heart.

Freddy turns and gives Gina a frighteningly serious look.

He presses the heart button.  And the floor disappears.  Gina

falls SCREAMING into blackness as Freddy hangs in mid-air and

LAUGHS.

INT. HONEYMOON SUITE

Gaudy colors, mirrors, a cheesy heart-shaped bed.  Gina's

body drops down, unexpectedly softly, landing on the fluffy

satin sheets.

she's dressed in a skimpy piece of bright pink LINGERIE.  She

moans and tries to sit up.

And four snake-like strips of satin swoop out from under the

bed and quickly wrap around each of her limbs, pulling her

down and yank her tight.

She's trapped.  That's when the door to the room opens and in

walks an incredibly huge FAT MAN.  He barely fits through the

door as he closes it behind him.  Puffy cheeks, permanent

seat, dirty fingernails, and a lecherous smile.

Gina's eyes widen.

Gina SCREAMS as he approaches her, the ground actually

shaking from his weight.

He looms above her, now.  Starts to unbutton his shirt to

reveal a hideous mound of hairy stomach flesh.  Gina is

repulsed.

RIP! Krueger's finger blades JUT out of the abdomen ad start

tearing a huge SLIT up the front of his body.  The Fat Man

starts to fold back as Freddy's head pops out of the front.

Freddy steps out of the Fat Man, sluffing the bulbous remains

aside.  He towers over Gina.  That creepy serious look on his

face again.

Gina gasps in horror as Krueger moves in.  But then a KNOCK

at the door.

Freddy frowns and walks over to the door.  He turns back to

Gina.

Krueger opens the door.  On the other side is a dinner cart

and a waiter behind it.  The waiter is JACOB.

CRASH!  Jacob shoves the dinner cart into the room and into

Freddy's gut, shoving Krueger across the room into a tumbled

heap.  Three EXPLOSIONS OF LIGHT BURST into the room.  The

Dream Police materialize.

Freddy jumps up growling.  Power Cop grabs him from behind.

Blade leaps over to the bed and in a FLASH of steel, releases

Gina from her satin bonds.  Jacob yanks Gina off the bed and

pulls her towards the door.

Freddy jumps out of Power Cop's grip and the Dream Police

surround him as the two teenagers bolt out of the room.

INT. HOTEL HALLWAY

Jacob pulls Gina along as the hotel room door SLAMS shut by

itself.  Gina yells at Jacob.

She squirms out of Jacob's grip and bounces away from him

like he has the plague.  CRASHING is heard from the hotel

room.  A violent battle is under way.  Jacob pleads with

Gina.

He holds out his hand to her.  Gina shivers, than looks into

Jacob's sincere eyes.  SOUNDS of destruction continue behind

the door as the girl battles with her worst fear.  Finally

Gina takes Jacob's hand.

They start running down the corridor - together.

INT. HONEYMOON SUITE

The entire room is filled with SWIRLING DUST and SMOKE,

completely obscuring everything from sight.  As the sound of

BREAKING FURNITURE and grunting fighters echoes, a few pieces

of debris bounce into view.

And then there is SILENCE.

The dust settles and the smoke dissipates.  The DREAM POLICE

stand alone in the rubble of a totally trashed room.

Krueger has escaped.

HOTEL CORRIDOR

Jacob runs, Gina trailing behind him, the two of them trying

to find a way out.  They pass a door.

The door SLAMS open and Freddy reaches out, grabs Gina and

yanks her into the room.  The door BANGS shut.

Jacob twirls around and runs towards the door.

And the door DISAPPEARS.  Nothing but flat wall remains as

Jacob hits it.  He starts banging his fist against the side

of the corridor.

The Dream police run up next to him.  Jacob spins around

angry.

Everyone backs off.  Sound Cop opens his mouth.  BOOM!  An

almost visible sound wave bursts forth from his lips and

CRACK, a huge hole is punched in the wall.

The Police leap into the hole, quickly followed by Jacob.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

This one's pretty normal.  Maybe the business suite.  And

it's EMPTY except for a heart-shaped box of candy in the

middle of the bed.  Jacob and the rest of the Police watch as

Blade picks up the box and opens it.  Dozens of COCKROACHES

pour out onto the floor.  Now Jacob's really pissed.

Jacob just shakes his head.

INT. LIMBO

All is BLACK.  Except for Freddy and Gina.  He has her from

behind, his hands locked on her shoulders.

Gina cries horribly like a person who knows death is seconds

away.  Freddy wraps his arms around her, hugging her.

And he KEEPS wrapping his arms.  They STRETCH and elongate,

wrapping once around his body and then around her's again.

And then again.  Freddy's rubber limbs curl around and around

an around Gina's quivering body.  Spiraling up and down.

Encircling on all sides on every part of her, touching and

grabbing her EVERYWHERE.

Until Krueger's arms cover her entirely.  Gina whimpers.

And he starts to SQUEEZE.  Gina gags as Freddy's snake-like

embrace TIGHTENS around her, draining the life out of Gina's

body.

INT. JACOB'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jacob wakes with a start as the entire house around him

shakes.

Jacob jumps out of bed.

INT. FOSTER HOME - UPPER HALLWAY

Jacob dashes down the corridor.  Karen comes out of her room.

They run to Gina's room and fling the door open.

INT. GINA'S BEDROOM

The RUMBLING of the house has stopped.  Gina's in bed, her

tongue sticking grotesquely out from the corner of her mouth,

her skin completely blue.  Jacob and Karen run to her to try

and help.

Gina's already dead.  But Freddy's not quite done with her

yet.  Jacob and Karen watch as Gina's chest CAVES IN.  Karen

SCREAMS.

EXT. FOSTER HOME - EARLY MORNING

The coroner's back, the neighborhood gawks.  Jacob, Karen and

Scott sit on the front steps in a daze.

But this time there are police barricades up.  In another

part of the front yard we can see Mr. and Mrs. Ross with a

social worker, MR. SILVERMAN.  Mary Ross is crying while her

husband David is having a heated argument with Silverman.

The kids watch on gloomily.

The social worker leaves as Mr. Ross walks over to the kids.

Mary walks right by them and into the house - to broken up

over something to talk.

Karen runs up to David and hugs him desperately.  He holds

her.

Karen lets go.  Scott stands up.

He leads them up the stairs.

EXT. JUVENILE HALL - DAY

A sign reads: ROSEDALE YOUTH CENTER.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Mr. Silverman, the social worker, is talking to the

teenagers.  Karen and Scott look understandably worried.

Jacob looks like the world just ended for him.

Silverman frowns at that last comment as the kids get up to

leave.

INT. JUVENILE HALL CORRIDOR

The teenagers walk glumly out of the office.  Jacob is still

strangely silent, not making eye contact with anyone.

Jacob walks on ahead of them.  Karen is flabbergasted.  She

stops and just stands there with Scott.  The two of them

watching Jacob walk away.

And Karen still can't believe it.

EXT. JUVENILE HALL COURTYARD - DUSK

Jacob is sitting on a bench looking like a beaten man and

hating himself for it.

Karen and Scott step out of a door.  They watch him for a few

seconds.  Then Karen walks towards Jacob.  Scott stays behind

and lights up a cigarette.

Jacob puts his face in his hands.

That hit home.  Jacob uncovers his face.  His ID bracelet

dangles from his wrist.  He looks at the bracelet.  ALICE

glints in the setting sunlight.  He remembers.  Jacob looks

up at Karen.

Jacob stands up.

INT. JUVENILE HALL LOUNGE - NIGHT

Jacob paces back and forth in front of Scott and Karen.

A SOCIAL WORKER sticks his head into the lounge.

The kids get up and start for the door.

Scott shakes his head as they leave.

INT. KAREN'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Karen lies in bed, under the covers.  She holds the picture

of herself, thirteen years old.  She stares at it.  Still

that missing piece.

Karen puts the picture on a nightstand and closes her eyes.

INT. SCOTT & JACOB'S DORM ROOM - NIGHT

Scott lies on the top of a set of bunk beds.  Jacob is on the

bottom and already looks asleep.

ON SCOTT

He's still awake.  Maybe he's starting to believe some of

Jacob's ramblings, because he nervously fidgets in bed.

he sighs, looks at his wrist, but his watch isn't on.  Then:

There's still no answer.  Scott rolls and peeks over the edge

of the bunk bed.  And Jacob's not there.

Scott sits up, looks around.  And FALLS right through the

middle of his bed, NOT appearing underneath the top bunk.  He

just disappears.

EXT. NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD - SOUTH STREET - NIGHT

Scott falls out of a tree and lands with a THUD.  He groans,

slowly gets to his feet and takes in his surroundings.

The road is dark and desolate.  The street lights emit a grim

brown glow and there are no stars or moon in the sky.

SOUNDS echo through the trees and buildings.  Weird MOANS,

odd GURGLINGS, eerie WHISPERS, and an occasional unearthly

HOWL.

This does not comfort Scott.

He starts cautiously walking down the sidewalk.  SOMETHING

flies by with a FLAPPING.  Scott ducks.  Was it a bird or a

bat or what?  It's already gone.

Then a craggy voice calls out from behind a tree.

Scott is understandably jumpy.  The dark figure of a BUM

starts walking towards him.  Scott backs away.

Scott starts sifting through his pockets, and the BUM steps

out into the light.

He has THREE EYES and a HUMP BACK.  Scott YELPS.

The Bum grins and Scott starts stumbling away, his voice

trailing off:

The mutant bum belches.

EXT. NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD - PARNELL AVE. - NIGHT

Karen rounds a corner.  She walks nervously down the middle

of the street.  There are no cars, and she wants to keep as

far away as possible from the houses on either side.

There is a CREAKING sound from one of those houses.  Karen

turns her head to look.

A craggy OLD WOMAN is rocking back and forth on her front

porch.  She's eating something, something stringy and slimy.

She munches away with a vacant look in her eyes.

The something in her hands MOVES slightly.  The old woman's

meal is still alive.

Karen gags and walks faster.  And a PANTING sound is heard,

like two dogs.  Someone is walking their pet down the

sidewalk.

It's the MUTANT WOMAN from Jacob's opening nightmare:

straggly hair, oozing sores, limping.  The source of the

multiple paintings is her single dog, all two heads of it.

The mutant woman waves unpleasantly at Karen.  Karen whimpers

and starts to RUN.

WITH KAREN - RUNNING

She stumbles quickly down the street.  We catch fleeting

glimpses of other horrors, twisted shapes, bent shadows.

Karen rounds a corner, and SCREAMS when she bumps into

someone.  It's Scott, out of breath from his own sprinting.

Scott nods and they take off down the street.  A cat with

three tails slithers by.

EXT. NIGHTMARE SPRINGWOOD - MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Jacob is standing motionless in the middle of the road.  He

stares down into the darkness, a wooden expression on his

face.

Karen and Scott are running up behind him.

Jacob's eyes are steady.  He hasn't yet acknowledged the

other's presence.  He eyes are fixed on the gloominess in

front of him.  A look of vengeance beginning to grow as our

SHOT MOVES IN on him.

Karen and Scott are next to him now.  They stand silently

with Jacob for a few seconds.  Then:

And not for long.  FLASH!  In three bursts the Dream Police

appear directly across from the teenagers.  Scott and Karen

jump back.  Jacob hold his ground.

The threesomes stand face-to-face in two parallel rows.

KABOOOOOOOOM!  A huge BRICK WALL, ten feet high and spreading

out across the street and through the houses, BLASTS up from

the asphalt.  Right between the Police and the kids.

ON THE DREAM POLICE SIDE

The three cops crouch into battle positions.

ON THE TEENAGER'S SIDE

The three of them have hardly any time to react before three

perfectly round HOLES open up underneath each of them.

And Scott, Jacob and Karen fall into darkness.

ON THE DREAM POLICE SIDE

Sound Cop stands up and his body begins to VIBRATE.  A new

noise emits from his mouth: a HIGH PITCHED SQUEAL.

And like the walls of Jericho, the bricks in front of them

fall apart and tumble to the ground.  Dust settles and the

Police walk over the rubble to the other side.  The kids are

gone.

The Dream Police break formation and scatter.

EXT. A STREET

A hole opens up in the road and WHOOSH, KAREN is elevated up

into the scene and the hole seals up instantly.

She jumps  a few feet and drops to her knees, holding onto

the ground.  She looks up at a street sign.  It reads: ELM

ST.  Karen stands up and heads down the road.

EXT. ROCHESTER AVE.

Another hole, and VOOM, Jacob is shot up into the street.  He

spins around, trying to get his bearings.  It doesn't take

him long.  He knows exactly where he is.

He starts to run and we FOLLOW him.

Jacob jumps over a procession of RATS making their way across

the street and just keeps on sprinting.  Until he reaches a

certain house.  He catches his breath as he looks at the

building, pain registering on his face.

Jacob runs towards the house as our shot MOVES IN CLOSE to

the mailbox and ate name printed across it.  It reads

JOHNSON.

INT. NIGHTMARE JOHNSON HOME - ENTRYWAY

Jacob bursts through the door.  He turns on a light switch.

A lamp SPUTTERS into semi-life, and keeps sputtering, casting

a candle-like glow over the interior.

Cobwebs and dust cover everything.  Rats and tarantula

spiders skitter about.  Jacob grits his teeth and walks in

deeper.

EXT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

Scott BLASTS out of the asphalt.  He staggers for a few

seconds from the ride, then looks at the building in front of

him.  A puttering neon sign, OSPRINGWOOD TAVERN', marks the

local saloon.  Muffled MUSIC and VOICES seep through the

cracks of the double doors.

Scott looks around, then shrugs.  He heads for the entrance.

INT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

Dump is too clean a word, dive is too nice, abomination is

more like it.  A greenish haze covers everything.  Instead of

sawdust on the floor there is a collection of debris that

looks like a compilation of human teeth, crushed bugs, and

pools of unmentionable goo.

Then there's the people.

Imagine any profanity, any obscenity,any blasphemy, add them

all up - then double them.  It wouldn't even come close to

the patrons of this joint.

They dance, they yell, they drink bloody bubbling mixtures.

There's a guy to the right that doesn't seem to mind that

half his brain is showing.  That girl over there has no jaw.

In a booth is a couple that are connected at the lips.  A

ventriloquist on stage is entertaining the troops with his

hand up the back of a real body.

Scott steps through the door and blinks about a dozen times.

Then he decides that the smart course of action is to turn

around and go right back out.

A MUTANT BOUNCER, half his face a skull, blocks Scott's way.

The bouncer with the limited vocabulary seems adamant.  Scott

backs off and turns around.  He carefully moves forward.  A

MUTANT WAITRESS with three breasts slips next to him.

Scott turns away, trying to keep his eyes in their sockets.

He slides up to the bar next to a MUTANT BUSINESSMAN.  The

man's head is on backwards, his arms lean on the bar while

his face looks out into the crowd.  He has to twist his neck

to sip his vile drink.

A BARTENDER, surprisingly normal-looking, steps up to Scott.

The bartender fills a twisted glass with a sickly brown

liquid.  Chunks of matter float amongst the foam.  Scott

takes the drink warily and looks up at the businessman next

to him.  The mutant smiles at him.

The bartender returns.  Holds one of those half pineapple

type drinks in his hand, except this one has the back end of

a wriggling lizard sticking out of mucousy fluid under a tiny

umbrella.  He gives it to Scott.

The bartender walks away and Scott cranes his head to look

down the bar.

SCOTT'S POV

The crowd blocks his view, but we can see a gloved hand with

four blades strapped to it tapping nonchalantly on the

surface of the wood.

BACK TO SCOTT

He picks up his drinks, holding the moving one at arm's

length, and heads down the bar.

AT THE END OF THE BAR

sits Freddy Krueger.  He sips coolly on some hideous

concoction as Scott sits down in the chair next to him and

lights a cigarette, trying to look equally cool.

Scott, valiantly holding on to his nerve, raises an eyebrow.

Suddenly Freddy is spinning a gun on the bar with his free

hand.  Scott grimaces.

That was Freddy's trump card.  It really hits a nerve in

Scott.  Karen's everything he's ever wanted.

Krueger holds out his knives.  Scott shakes his head.

Freddy laughs.

INT. NIGHTMARE JOHNSON HOME - ALICE'S BEDROOM

Jacob opens the door into darkness.

He turns on the light and a RED HAZE blankets the room.

Jacob looks up.  The dish-like ceiling lamp is filled with

blood.

Jacob walks into the room, tears welling.  He walks by

Alice's vanity, her makeup still sitting there as if she

might show up and use it at any moment.

He steps up to a wardrobe closet and touches the edges of it

lightly.  He reaches out and slowly, almost reverently, opens

the doors.

Dozens of writhing SNAKES drop out of the closet and slither

onto the ground.

Jacob jumps back and SCREAMS.

Then he just stands there in the middle of the teaming

reptile mass, not giving a shit anymore, going insane.  His

fists clenched, his head tilted back, as he YELLS into the

air like a wolf baying at the moon.

EXT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

Scott steps off the sidewalk and looks up and down the

street.  He thinks and we MOVE IN on him.

Scott sneers.

We PULL WIDER as Scott cups his hands around his mouth.

CLOSE ON SCOTT

He puts his hands on his hips and sighs.

GLITCH! a stabbing sound of flesh, and Scott JERKS violently

as our shot PULLS BACK to reveal:

Freddy behind Scott, his deadly fingers buried in the boy's

back.  Scott chokes on his own blood as Krueger growls.

Freddy pulls out his blades as Scott falls forward and with

his final breath utters:

His body hits the ground with a THUD as a sudden ROAR fills

the air.  Freddy looks around for its source.  And Sound Cop

drops down on him with a SMACK.

The two of them tumble, then both jump up. Freddy laughs.

Sound Cop looks down at Scott's body, then back up at

Krueger.  His body is shaking with fury,and he opens his

mouth.

The loudest sound yet comes from Sound Cop.  KABOOM!  A blast

of air at Mach 3 smacks into Freddy and sends him sailing

back, SMASHING right through the Tavern wall.

INT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

Freddy flies sideways, right through the bar, destroying

chandeliers as he careens through and punches yet another

huge hole through the opposite wall.

The nightmarish customers don't even seem to notice.

INT. NIGHTMARE JOHNSON HOME - ENTRYWAY

Jacob is shuffling down the stairs as a SONIC BOOM of noise

echoes through the streets outside.

He knows exactly what that sound means as we MOVE IN on his

face.

Jacob races for the front door.

INT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

The dust is just starting to settle as a THUD is heard coming

from the hole in the opposite wall.  Quickly followed by

Freddy's soaring body.  Krueger SMASHES into some tables and

slides across the floor.  Power Cop steps through the hole,

his fists clenched.  Freddy stands up and dusts himself off.

Power Cop has no intention to.  He bolts over, grabs Krueger,

raises him over his head like a wrestler, slams him down on

the bar, and SHOVES Freddy, knocking glasses and ashtrays

aside until he SMACKS into yet another poor wall.

Krueger barely gets back on his feet when Power Cop is right

on him again.  The big man in black SWINGS, but this time

Freddy DUCKS.  CRACK! a support column bursts into dust.

Freddy twirls around.  And the two of them start to PUNCH

each other.

It's a barroom brawl between non-humans as Power Cop and

Freddy Krueger exchange multiple blows.

SMACK SMACK SMACK!  Freddy nails Power Cop, whose head barely

seems to budge from the hits.

POW POW POW!  Power Cop lays into Krueger, sending him

spinning and tumbling only to pick him up and start the

process all over again.

This goes on for a while, and Krueger is losing.

The mutant bouncer finally steps up to Power Cop to try and

put a stop to all this.

CRUNCH!  Power Cop puts a stop to the bouncer with a vicious

elbow in the chest.  All this gave Freddy a few seconds to

grab a chair and crack it ineffectually over the Cop's head.

The pummeling begins again.

THWACK THWACK THWACK!  Power Cop is punching Freddy towards

the door.

EXT. SPRINGWOOD TAVERN

Like in an old wester, Krueger flies out of the double doors

and somersaults onto the pavement.  Sound Cop is a few yards

away knelt down next to Scott's dead body.  He looks up as

Freddy sneers.

Freddy raises his left fist and it begins to EXPAND.  It

grows like an inflated beach ball, except it doesn't look

soft at all.  Freddy slides up to the side of the entrance,

and raises his giant hammer hand.  Power Cop steps through,

looking for blood.  Sound Cop tries to warn him.

Too late.  BAM!  Freddy's fist slams down on Power Cop's

head.  He's actually shoved down into the ground a full two

feet - trapped at the legs.

BAM!  Freddy hits him again.  Power Cop is down to his thighs

and he can't get out.

A RUMBLING is heard.  Freddy turns to see Sound Cop starting

to open his mouth.  Krueger instantly reaches down and grabs

a brick from the rubble and THROWS it at Sound Cop.

THUNK!  The brick lands squarely in Sound Cop's mouth,

stretching it painfully and blocking it completely.  Sound

Cop reels from the impact.  Tries to pull out the firmly

wedged plug.

Freddy turns back to Power Cop, BAM!  Hits him down to his

hips.  The giant fist swings, BAM BAM BAM BAM BAM! like

hammering a nail until Power Cop DISAPPEARS into the ground.

Freddy's hand deflates to regular size as he turns to the

struggling Sound Cop.

Sound Cop's head is EXPANDING.  Pressure seems to be building

up, something's gonna blow.  Freddy picks up a boulder from

the street rubble.  He catapults it with both hands at Sound

Cop.  The boulder hits Sound Cop's head and takes it CLEAN

OFF.

Sound Cop's decapitated skull tumbles away with the brick

still stuck, as a blast of air shoots up from the stump of

his neck with a SCREECH.

Sound Cop's body stumbles for a few seconds, then falls over

limply.

Freddy LAUGHS and laughs and laughs... KACHUNK! until a KNIFE

embeds itself in his back.  Krueger spins around.

CHUNK CHUNK CHUNK!  Three more knives slam into his body as

he staggers back in surprise.  Blade Cop stands twenty feet

away reaching into thin air and whipping out knife after

knife, flinging them at Freddy.  They sail like flying

bullets.

CHUNK CHUNK CHUNK!  Krueger falls back from the sheer force

of the onslaught, at least a dozen blades sticking out of his

body.

Blade stops. She stands there for a beat, waiting to see what

Freddy will do next.

Krueger sways, looking like an inhuman pincushion.  Then he

grins.  His body steadies, and he suddenly poses like a body

builder and flexes every muscle.

POP POP POP!  The daggers shoot out of his torso and limbs,

CLATTERING to the ground.

The girl in black steps back and raises her arms.  SHINK

SHINK!  Two-foot-long sabers jut out from her forearms.

They're not held by her, they're a PART of her, exiting from

the tops of her wrists under her clenched fists.  She crosses

the blades in front of her.

KACHINK! Freddy shoots out his finger knives and they EXTEND

to double their normal size.  He raises them and takes on a

fencing stance.

SWOOP/CLANG!  A swordfight ensues.  Freddy swinging his four

long knives.  Blade slashing her rapier-arms.  They lunge,

they parry, they leap, they duck.

CLANG!  They connect.  SCREEEEE.  Metal scrapes metal.  It's

a bastardized version of an Errol Flynn movie and Blade Cop

and Freddy are equally matched.  Blade moves to get the upper

hand.

CLINK CLINK!  Blades shoot out of the girl's ELBOWS.  Now

when she takes a swing with her fists, another sword is right

behind it on the follow-through.

Freddy gets caught off-guard.  Gets slashed twice in the

shoulder and twirls away.  Then starts to move FASTER.

Blade counters with an equally increased intensity.  Freddy

ducks, SWOOPS out twice quickly.  A fold of black cloth drops

down on Blade's stomach, revealing naked skin and a little

blood.  They pause for a second.

And Blade becomes AIRBORNE putting a Samurai to shame,

twirling her legs up and out as a blade juts momentarily from

her RIGHT HEEL, chopping off Freddy's left hand.

Krueger stumbles back in astonishment as green goo spurts out

of the stump.

Astonishment turns to rage as the two converge again,

swinging away at an incredible rate.  An impossible rate.

JACOB rounds the corner.  He stumbles into the action just as

the battling pair are becoming an obscure swirling GLINTING

MASS.  Pieces of them start to drop away.

Blade's foot hits the ground.  Freddy's arm plops away.  A

broken sword hits the asphalt under the spinning cloud, then

one of Blade's arms.

CLOSE ON JACOB

as he watches, his eyes dart to try to follow the action

that's moving too fast for him to see.

Then there's silence.

We PULL BACK and PAN  to follow Jacob as he walks into the

scene of carnage.  He steps up to two pills of remains: one

black and flesh colored covered with red blood, the other a

heap of red and green cloth, scarred tissues, and pukish

green glop.

Blade and Freddy have literally chopped each other to bits,

the two mounds of body parts steaming in the cold night air.

Jacob sees something else and walks over to it.  It's Scott's

body.  Jacob kneels down next to the dead teenager.

A CRACKING sound makes Jacob stand up.  Over to the now-

silent bar entrance a BLACK FIST punches up through the

cement.  With a crumbling of granite, Power Cop rises from

the earth.

Something else moves behind Jacob and he turns, then SCREAMS.

Sound Cop's headless body walks into the shot, his arms held

ABOVE FRAME over his neck.

Then Sound Cop's arms lower his dismembered HEAD onto his

stump, push it down, twist it til it stays.  With great

effort, Sound Cop yanks the brick out of his mouth.

Jacob now looks OFF SCREEN at something else, something that

REALLY makes his eyes widen.  We get to see the shadow of

what Jacob sees, projected on the wall of the bar behind him.

The shadow of the pile of body parts that was Blade Cop

begins to MOVE.  The pieces start to REFORM, leg to torso,

arm to shoulder, head to neck.  The shadow on the wall rises

and we PULL BACK.

Blade Cop stands across from Jacob, whole again except for a

flash of exposed flesh on her abdomen to remind her of the

experience.

Jacob raises his eyebrows as the resurrected Dream Police

step around him.

Blade whips her visor up to reveal an upset girl's face.

Jacob frowns as the four of them walk over to the pile of

Freddy remains.  But they're not remains anymore.  All that's

left of Freddy is a stack of CLOTH remnants.

A WIND rises and pieces of cloth blow away into the darkness.

The other two Dream Police raise their visors, looking

equally distraught.  They all face Jacob.

Jacob sighs, then gets an idea.

And he starts to run down the street.

He disappears down the road as the Dream Police snap down

their visors

EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE

Karen stands in front of a rotted gate in front of a run down

building with shuttered windows and a crumbling foundation.

This isn't just an ELM STREET house, it's THE Elm Street

house.  And for some reason Karen is drawn to it.  She looks

to her let at the bent mailbox.

It has a name plate on it.  Another one underneath it.  And

another.  It's as if people moved in and out and instead of

changing the plates on the mailbox, they just whacked a new

one over the old.  Karen steps closer to the mailbox.

The little sign on the top reads WILLIAMS.  She touches it

with her finger and it drops off, the nails holding it on

rusted away to dust.  A new plate is revealed.  This one says

THOMPSON. Karen picks lightly at it, and it swings away.  The

name underneath makes Karen gasp.

It reads KRUEGER.

And there's still another one under that horrible name.

Karen quickly hits the Krueger plate off.  The last sign

reads UNDERWOOD.

Karen frowns.  She turns back to the house, a determined

expression on her face.

She KICKS the gate open and walks up to the house.

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE

We've been here before, haven't we?  But for Karen it's the

first visit as she opens the front door and walks in.  She

takes in the twisted skeleton of a home for a few seconds and

then begins to SEARCH it.

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - LIVING ROOM

Karen races through, pulling open desk drawers, rifling

through shelves, flipping through books.  She doesn't know

what she's looking for, but she knows she hasn't found it

yet.

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - KITCHEN

The intensity of Karen's quest increases as she yanks open

cabinets and tosses plates to the floor.  Still nothing.

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - STAIRS

Karen runs up them, a girl with a mission.

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - MASTER BEDROOM

Karen flings the door open.  Nothing but a bed and a set of

drawers.  No hint as to the occupant's lives.  She doesn't

bother ransacking this one and goes on to:

INT. ELM STREET HOUSE - FREDDY'S BEDROOM

Jackpot.  Karen stares through the open door at a child's

room, a very twisted child's room.  She slowly walks in.

A bed, a desk, a dresser.  There's a Jack-in-a-box with its

head torn off.  A disemboweled Teddy Bear.  White puffy guts

hanging out of it.  A clown doll with its face caved in.  A

hanging mobile made of strange bent shapes.

And a pile of more-than-dirty clothes.

Karen goes over to the pile and picks through it with her

toe.  A small pair of pants, about the right size for an

eight-year-old.  A black pair of shoes.  And a little

sweater, a RED AND GREEN STRIPED sweater.

Karen goes over to the desk.  There is stack of drawings on

it - a child's drawings.  On one of them it looks like

someone was practicing writing their name.  FREDDY UNNERWOOD,

FREDDY UNDERWUD, FREDDY UNDERWOOD over and over again.  Until

the final attempt has the last name angrily crossed out,

replaced underneath by a hastily scrawled KRUEGER!!!

Another piece of paper: a set of human stick figures.  A

small one is labeled FREDDY.  The large one is labeled DADDY.

The Daddy figure is depicted HITTING the Freddy figure.

There are more drawings, all of them violent, the large

figure beating away at the small one.

Suddenly a CREAKING.  Karen jumps.  Hides behind a bookshelf.

She's nervously trying to figure out what to do when a framed

picture catches her attention on the shelf.  It's a picture

of a tall, dark man and a little boy.  Karen reaches out to

grab the picture, but accidentally knocks over a glass mug

with a CRASH.

FOOTSTEPS can now be heard tromping up the stairs.

Someone's coming and Karen's on the edge of panic.  She looks

around and finds an old baseball bat.  She grabs it and runs

to the side of the doorway as the FOOTSTEPS approach down the

hallway.  Karen raises the bat.

And Jacob appears.  Karen pulls back with the bat as Jacob

jumps away from her.

She starts to drag him over to the desk of drawings.

She starts showing him the scrawlings.

She walks over to the bookshelf and grabs the picture of

LITTLE FREDDY and FREDDY'S FOSTER FATHER.

Jacob thinks for a second.  It's all starting to make sense.

He grabs her hand and pulls her towards her door.

They head out to

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

And Blade Cop is standing in the middle of the corridor.  The

two teenagers stop.

KACHINK!  A knife shoots out of Blade's right hand, ready for

action.  (but wait a minute, her uniform isn't ripped

anymore...)  Karen and Jacob make their way to the stairs.

He turns to Blade.

Blade walks up to him and stands there.  Then JAMS HER KNIFE

into JACOB'S GUT.  Karen SCREAMS.  Jacob chokes.  Blade Cop

shoves the knife in further until it juts out of Jacob's

back.  She turns.

Then BECOMES FREDDY.

Krueger yanks his finger blades out and Jacob's limp body

falls at Karen's feet.  Karen shrieks and cries, dropping to

her knees to hold him.

He looks up at her, slowly dying.  She strokes his forehead

while Freddy laughs at the sentiment.

And Jacob is gone.  Karen sobs, so torn apart that she is

ignoring the incredible danger above her.  But not for long.

Krueger grabs Karen by the neck.

And he starts to DRAG her, kicking and screaming, her body

scraping across the floor towards the

MASTER BEDROOM

Freddy drags Karen in and TOSSES her across the room.  She

lands with a THUD on the bed.  He saunters over to her and

climbs up on the bed next to her.  Gets on top.

Karen yells and hits him uselessly with her fists and it's

horrible because there he is, pressing down on her, right in

her face, mounting her as if he's going to rape her.

She screams as he presses even harder.

And the last three words of that sentence seem to ECHO

through the room, swirling around Karen.  DADDY'S LITTLE

GIRL.  "Daddy's little girl."  Karen twists her head away.

And Freddy's become Karen's FATHER.  He looks down on her

with a lecherous grin.

Karen stops struggling.  The realization grows on her face

with the resurfacing memory.

She does.  And she has an answer for him.

Karen stares at him defiantly.  And a HAND grabs Karen's

Father, and yanks him away.  We PULL BACK.

KAREN'S MOTHER is next to the bed.  Furious.

And she SLAPS Karen's Father.  He stands up, SLUGS her across

the jaw.  She tumbles back.  Karen sits up.

Karen's Mother gets up, a defiant look just like Karen's on

her face.

BAP!  He strikes her again, sending her right out the door.

He follows her. Karen stands up and runs after them.

IN THE HALLWAY

CRACK!  The man hits the woman down to the floor.  Karen's

mother stands up, just taking it.  She's at the top of the

stairs.  Karen's Father swings his arm back, and Karen jumps

on him.  He shrugs her away violently.

WITH KAREN

as she hits the ground and the wall next to Jacob's body.

She looks up.

WIDER

And Karen's Father is now FREDDY again.  He swings his fist.

SMACK!

Karen's Mother reels from the hit, falls backwards.  Karen

jumps up to try and help her, reaching past Freddy.  But it's

too late.

Karen's Mother tumbles down the stairs, head hitting, bones

cracking, disappearing into darkness.

Freddy grabs Karen by the neck and lifts her.  DANGLES her

over the top of the steps.

And Jacob RISES UP behind Krueger.  GRABS him.  Freddy DROPS

Karen.  She hits hard and rolls down the steps as Freddy

turns, his knives swinging out and SLAMMING Jacob's gut one

more time, IMPALING him against the wall.  Jacob gasps out

his final breath.

Freddy pulls his blades out of Jacob and the wall.  The boy's

body hits the floor for the last time.  Freddy turns back to

the stairs and looks down them.

He strolls down the steps.

DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY

Freddy walks down and no one's there.  Karen's Mom was just

an illusion, but Karen herself, dead or alive, is nowhere to

be seen.

He walks down the hallway.  Eyes darting.  Until a BOOMING

VOICE is heard from the kitchen.

Freddy cocks his head and frowns.

And, amazingly, a look of FEAR crosses Krueger's face.

Something about that voice has struck terror in the heart of

the creature that fears nobody.

Krueger turns to the kitchen door.  A man steps out of the

shadows, a big muscular man with a horrifying look in his

eyes.  A man we've seen somewhere before - in a picture.

It's FREDDY'S FOSTER FATHER - MR. UNDERWOOD.  And he looks

pissed beyond belief.

Freddy shrinks back, eyes widening.

Mr. Underwood raises his arm and SMACKS Freddy across the

skull.  Krueger tumbles back into the hallway.

Freddy scrambles to his feet.  Shakes with dread.  Looks like

a scared little boy.  Mr. Underwood advances on him.

Freddy turns and bolts for the front door.  He flings it

open.  Power Cop stands in his way and SHOVES Freddy back -

back in front of his foster father.

PUNCH - a vicious blow from Underwood sends Krueger into

THE LIVING ROOM

where Freddy falls over a couch.  Underwood stomps into the

room. Krueger scrambles up and heads for the archway leading

into the dining room.

BLADE COP blocks the escape.  The ripped flap of her uniform

proving she's the real one. She KICKS Freddy back and into

Underwood's hands.  The man picks up Krueger and HITS him

again.  And again.  And again.

Freddy wriggles away and opens a window.  Sound Cop fills the

window, cutting him off.  Pushes him back inside.

Mr. Underwood grabs Krueger and slaps him over and over.

Slugs him.  Gives the beating he's got coming to him.

And Freddy MOANS and YELLS like a blubbering child.  Shrinks

into a corner but is yanked out for more pummeling.

Power Cop stands at the exit to the hallway.  Blade Cop

continues to obstruct the dining room arch.  Sound Cop steps

through the window and stands in front of it.  The Dream

Police just stare in silence.

It's not a street fight, not a punching match.  Just a

ruthless thrashing that would be hard to watch if it weren't

for the fact that we are all cheering because no one in

history has ever deserved it more.

Underwood stops the whipping and stands over Krueger who is

lying on the ground whimpering, pleading for mercy.

And with that, Underwood brings his fist down and JAMS it

into Freddy's stomach.  Right THROUGH IT.  Shoving it into

his very body.

Freddy SCREAMS.  Underwood violently pulls his fist out and

there's SOMETHING in it.  A shimmering flowing thing.

Crackling with unworldly LIGHT.  It's a SOUL.  It's Wesley's

SOUL.  Underwood flings his arm out and lets go.  Wesley's

soul flies into thin air and DISSIPATES.

Krueger's father brings his hand down again and RIPS out

GINA'S SOUL.  Again.  JACOB'S SOUL.  Freddy opens his mouth

and shrieks.  As Underwood raises his arms and begins to

SPARKLE.  FLASHES of light bounce around his body. He's

changing.

And something's happening to Freddy's too.  Steam is rising

from the creature.  His feet are starting to flatten as he

lays on the ground and BLACK GOO oozes from his pores.

He's melting.  And still screaming as he watches his foster

father's image turn into:

KAREN.  An aura of LIGHT vanishes around her body as she

lowers her arms with a victorious yet sad look on her face.

Freddy DIES.

A look of horrified realization burns in Krueger's eyes as he

sees Karen and CONTINUES to scream inhumanly.

His body dissolves, all of it liquefying into BLACK SLIME.

Gone.  Just a bubbling black puddle of gunk is left.  His

SHRIEK echoes through the room and everywhere else.

Then the GUNK grows and changes into a dark cloud that begins

to EXPAND.

Power Cop runs up, grabs Karen and yells.

Karen, almost mesmerized by the black cloud spreading in

front of her, stumbles away with Power Cop.

EXT. ELM STREET HOUSE

The Dream Police and Karen bolt out the front door and run

down the street as a RUMBLE joins Freddy's thunderous SHRIEK

and the entire town begins to SHAKE.

We stay with a shot of the house as the noise and vibrations

continue.

And the Elm Street House EXPLODES.  The BLACK CLOUD punches

out the roof and the walls, sending wood and debris flying

everywhere.

The rubble flies into the air, hangs there for a beat, then

falls to the ground.

All is SILENT.  And the dark cloud turns WHITE.  The milky

fog spreads out.

EXT. ELM STREET INTERSECTION

Karen falls to her knees on the pavement, not looking back at

the destruction one block away.

The Dream Police stop running to turn to face her.  Karen

hangs her head and cries.

Blade steps forward.

Karen raises her head as the Dream Police turn away.

KAREN'S POV - THE DREAM POLICE

walk off into the distance.  Just as they are about to vanish

into the darkness, a FOURTH FIGURE appears and joins them in

formation.  Then they all disappear.

ANGLE ON KAREN

Her mouth drops open at what she's just seen.  What she

DOESN'T see is the white cloud swooping down the street

behind her. She just closes her eyes as the ivory mist

envelops her and the SCREEN GOES WHITE.

FADE IN FROM WHITE TO:

EXT. PARK BENCH - DAY

Karen lies sleeping on the bench amongst the grass and trees.

Her eyes open and squint at the bright light.  She sits up

and tries to get her bearings.  Some hair falls into her face

and she brushes it away.  Only then noticing that she's

holding something in her hand.

She opens her hand and looks down.

KAREN'S POV

It's an ID bracelet.  A band of gold with a larger plate

dangling from the middle of it.  Karen's hand turns it over.

This time the printing reads JACOB.

WITH KAREN

she chokes back the tears.  We hear a PANTING O.S.  Then a

woman's voice.

Karen looks up as we PULL BACK.  A pleasant-looking woman, no

longer a mutant, is walking her cute dog.  She looks

sincerely concerned.  Karen nods.

The woman continues on her way.  Karen sighs and puts the

bracelet on her wrist.  She stands and our SHOT PULLS UP AND

AWAY as the pretty young girl starts walking through a town

she's never seen - except in her dreams.

