FADE IN ON:

AN ESTABLISHING SHOT OF PARIS IN THE MONTH OF APRIL

THE LUXURIOUS LOBBY OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE

CAMERA MOVES to a CLOSE SHOT of the desk. In the background

is a revolving door leading to the street. Through the

revolving door comes a strangely dressed individual, obviously

one who doesn't belong in such surroundings. It is Comrade

Buljanoff, a member of the Russian Board of Trade. Despite

the spring climate of Paris, he still wears his typical

Russian clothes, consisting of a coat with a fur collar, a

fur cap, and heavy boots.

Buljanoff glances around the lobby, obviously over-whelmed

by its magnificence. The Manager, puzzled by Buljanoff's

strange appearance, approaches him.

He exits toward the street. The Manager returns to his

customary duties, when suddenly a second Russian, similarly

dressed, pushes his way through the door and gazes around.

It is Comrade Iranoff.

The Manager, definitely mystified by now, approaches him.

Iranoff exits. Again the Manager returns to his duties, when

suddenly he sees that a third man, dressed in the same

fashion, has appeared in the revolving door. It is Comrade

Kopalski.

Kopalski doesn't leave the revolving door at all but as it

turns, drinks in the whole spectacle of the lobby. The Manager

is by now dumfounded.

STREET IN FRONT OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE

A taxi stands at the curb. Buljanoff and Iranoff are waiting

beside it, Iranoff holding a suitcase. Kopalski, returning

from the hotel, joins the group.

Iranoff and Kopalski follow him reluctantly.

All three start to leave the taxi, as we

LOBBY -- HOTEL CLARENCE -- AT THE DESK

Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski are approaching the Manager,

their only suitcase carried by two of them.

The other two nod their agreement. The Manager has noted the

single suitcase.

The other two exchange a look of agreement again.

The mention of the Royal Suite startles the three.

The Three Russians take a step away from the manager and go

into a huddle.

The other two welcome the suggestion with relish.

Suddenly Buljanoff grows skeptical again.

For a moment all three see their bright plans crumble. Then

Iranoff comes to the rescue.

Buljanoff and Kopalski see the logic of this and their faces

light up.

The Manager leads the three toward the elevator. The CAMERA

FOLLOWS THEM and NARROWS DOWN to the suitcase carried by two

of the Russians.

DARK INTERIOR OF SAFE -- ROYAL SUITE

We hear from the outside the turning of a key, the opening

of a door, then the turning of the dial, and then we see the

safe door open. Through the open door we now see the Royal

Suite. The Three Russians are standing in front of the safe.

One of them puts the suitcase into it.

MEDIUM SHOT -- ROYAL SUITE OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE

Shooting from the interior of the room toward the safe. The

Three Russians are standing around it. As Buljanoff and

Iranoff close the safe door, Kopalski walks out of the shot.

The CAMERA STAYS for a few seconds on Buljanoff and Iranoff,

then PANS OVER to the center of the room, where a waiter is

setting a breakfast table. He is the former Count Rakonin, a

Russian exile employed by the Hotel Clarence. Rakonin is

looking with great interest toward the safe, and as he does

so we hear Kopalski's voice talking into the telephone.

Rakonin pricks up his ears and looks toward the telephone.

CLOSE SHOT -- KOPALSKI -- AT TELEPHONE

CLOSE SHOT -- RAKONIN

As he sets the breakfast table, his interest in the telephone

conversation increases.

As the voice continues, we

SERVICE STAIRCASE -- HOTEL CLARENCE

Rakonin hurries down the stairs, buttoning his overcoat around

him. He exits through a door to the street.

STREET CORNER NEAR THE HOTEL CLARENCE

Rakonin is getting into a taxi.

INSERT the House Number "8"

above the doorway of a Parisian apartment house. Camera pulls

back to medium shot of the whole entrance. Into it is striding

a typical Parisian playboy. He is Count Leon d'Algout.

ENTRANCE HALL -- SWANA'S APARTMENT

The door is being opened by Swana's maid. Leon enters like a

man thoroughly at home.

LONG SHOT -- SWANA'S ROOM

Swana sits at her dressing table in a negligee. Leon enters

with the easy air of an old friend. He kisses her lightly.

During Swana's long speech he sits down, not paying much

attention to her patter, lights a cigarette, and glances

through a magazine.

Leon knows on which note to play for Swana's benefit.

Swana rises and goes over to Leon. His method has been highly

successful.

Leon sits down next to her, growing enthusiastic.

There is a knock on the door.

The Maid enters.

The Maid exits. Swana walks toward the door of the living

room.

LIVING ROOM -- SWANA'S APARTMENT

A charming room, which manages to create a little of the

atmosphere of Old Russia. Rakonin stands, his overcoat still

buttoned about him, waiting nervously. Swana enters, leaving

the door ajar. Rakonin approaches her with the respect he

would have paid her at the Imperial Court.

MEDIUM SHOT -- DOOR OF BEDROOM

From the door of the bedroom appears Leon, his face alert.

MEDIUM CLOSE -- SWANA AND RAKONIN

Swana goes to the telephone.

Leon steps to her side, highly interested.

Count Rakonin leaves.

She hangs up, rises, the legal situation whirling around in

her brain.

Swana looks up at him, hope dawning in her eyes, as we

INSERT OF THE JEWELS

spread out on a table in the Royal Suite. Camera pulls back

to a LONGER SHOT. We see Mercier, the jeweler, examining the

jewels with an eyepiece screwed in his eye. Around him stand

the Three Russians. Mercier, a middle-aged man of the greatest

suavity and elegance, but a shrewd trader none the less,

looks up.

Iranoff draws Buljanoff aside and whispers in his ear.

The telephone rings.

CLOSE-UP -- BULJANOFF, IRANOFF, AND KOPALSKI

The Three Russians step to one side.

SHOT OF THE WHOLE GROUP

There is a knock at the door. Iranoff walks toward it, unlocks

it, opens it a little. In the door appears Leon.

Leon pushes his way in. He approaches Monsieur Mercier. The

Russians get between him and the jewels and during the

following scene put them back into the safe.

He hands it to Mercier, who reads it.

The Russians take the copy of the injunction, read it

flabbergasted. As they do so, Leon turns to Monsieur Mercier.

He bows and starts toward the door. Leon accompanies him,

opening the door as though he were the host.

He bows.

Mercier leaves. Leon closes the door and turns back into the

room to the three outraged Russians.

MEDIUM SHOT -- CORRIDOR OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE

shooting toward door leading to the Royal Suite. Two waiters

are wheeling in a table on which is a block of ice filled

with caviar and a collection of the most delicious hors

d'oeuvres. They enter the room. After the door is closed we

hear from within loud SOUNDS of approval from Buljanoff,

Iranoff, and Kopalski. The CAMERA STAYS on the door. After a

few seconds a very good-looking cigarette girl enters the

room and from within we HEAR even louder SOUNDS of approval.

Next a waiter enters carrying champagne and another with

glasses on a tray. As they are going into the room, the

cigarette girl comes out and runs excitedly down the corridor.

Camera pans with her away from the door as she starts down

the staircase.

MEDIUM SHOT -- DOOR OF THE ROYAL SUITE

Some of the waiters come out, others go in, carrying further

delicacies.

MEDIUM SHOT -- HEAD OF STAIRCASE

Up the staircase pants the cigarette girl, followed by two

other cigarette girls. Camera pans with them as they rush

toward the door of the Royal Suite and enter. From within we

HEAR terrific greetings. The CAMERA REMAINS ON THE DOOR as

we SLOWLY DISSOLVE INTO EVENING.

The electric lights are lit and a band of five Hungarian

musicians enters carrying typical Hungarian instruments,

including a cimbalom.

LONG SHOT -- ROYAL SUITE

The orchestra is playing; the Three Russians, very high by

now, are dancing with the girls. One of them is wearing the

cigarette tray of one of the girls. It is a harmless but

loud and hilarious party. Apart from all the hullabaloo sits

Leon at the desk, a telegraph blank before him.

The three come to him, all in the gayest, most agreeable

mood.

The others join him and kiss Leon.

This brings on a new frenzy of Russian affection. Leon frees

himself and rises.

Again they overwhelm Leon with an avalanche of Russian

affection. At this moment Rakonin enters with some new bottles

of champagne. The Russians immediately leave Leon and direct

their affection toward Rakonin, embracing and kissing him.

After Rakonin has turned over the champagne to the Russians,

Leon takes him aside.

He leaves the room.

CLOSE SHOT -- DOOR LEADING TO CORRIDOR OF HOTEL CLARENCE

Rakonin comes out with the telegram. The CAMERA PANS with

him as he hurries down the corridor, reading it. The CAMERA

NARROWS DOWN on an insert of the telegram as we

TELEGRAPH WIRES OVER A WIDE SWEEP OF COUNTRY

TELEGRAPH WIRES OVER THE ROOFS OF MOSCOW

Pan down past the roof of an official building to a CLOSE

SHOT of a window. Behind it stands Razinin, reading the

telegram. He is a violent, militant Bolshevik.

The telegram fills him with rage. As he crumples it, and

stares into space, his expression bodes ill for Buljanoff,

Iranoff, and Kopalski.

MEDIUM SHOT -- UPPER CORRIDOR OF HOTEL CLARENCE

FADE IN:

shooting toward door of elevator. The elevator comes up and

stops, the door opens, and the Three Russians step out. They

are very smartly dressed and look like any urbane gentlemen

coming from the races. Two of them have racing glasses. As

they walk toward the Royal Suite, Lady Lavenham, an elderly

English aristocrat, comes out of her room.

As they walk into the Royal Suite, Buljanoff tosses off an

urbane comment.

ANTEROOM OF ROYAL SUITE

As the three enter, the telephone rings. Buljanoff and

Kopalski go into the living room. Iranoff answers the

telephone.

He steps into the living room.

LIVING ROOM

As Iranoff enters Buljanoff rushes toward him.

They rush into the bedroom.

LOBBY -- HOTEL CLARENCE

Manager at desk. Iranoff, Buljanoff, and Kopalski rush from

the direction of the elevator. Iranoff pauses at the desk.

The others go on to the door and wait for him there.

From the door Buljanoff and Kopalski call impatiently.

As he starts toward the door, we

PLATFORM -- PARIS RAILROAD STATION

The train has already arrived as the Three Russians hurry

down the platform. Neither do they know the name of the Envoy

Extraordinary, nor his appearance, and they are searching

the crowd for some clue.

Iranoff points to a bearded man with a knapsack.

They follow the man, but just as they are ready to approach

him he is greeted by a German Girl. Both raise their hands

in the Nazi salute.

As the two embrace, the Three Russians stop in their tracks.

By now the platform is almost empty. As the Russians in the

foreground look around helplessly, we see in the background

a woman who obviously is also looking for someone. It is

Ninotchka Yakushova, the Envoy Extraordinary. The Russians

exchange troubled looks and go toward her. Ninotchka comes

forward. As they meet she speaks.

They shake hands. Ninotchka's grip is strong as a man's.

The Russians are taken aback. As Ninotchka bends down to

lift her two suitcases, Iranoff calls:

A Porter steps up to them.

Ninotchka takes both suitcases and walks away with the Three

Russians, whose nervousness has increased with every word

from the Envoy Extraordinary.

The hearts of the Three Russians drop to their boots, as we

LOBBY -- HOTEL CLARENCE

Ninotchka, followed by the Russians, comes through the lobby,

observing every detail of these unfamiliar surroundings.

Suddenly she stops. In the showcase of a hat shop in the

lobby is displayed a hat of the John-Frederic's type.

Ninotchka shakes her head.

She walks out of the shot toward the elevator, followed by

the Three Russians, as we

ROYAL SUITE

Ninotchka enters, followed by the Three Russians, who by now

are frightened to death.

Ninotchka begins to unpack her things and puts her typewriter

on the desk.

Ninotchka takes Lenin's picture from her bags.

Ninotchka continues to type. The Three Russians watch her

nervously. Each click pounds on their consciences.

Ninotchka goes on with her typing. Suddenly she looks up at

Iranoff, who becomes self-conscious and fixes his tie. As he

does so he sees that Ninotchka's glance is concentrated on

the spats which he was wearing and in his hurry forgot to

remove. He knows it is too late to do anything about it except

to stand one foot behind the other, as Ninotchka types faster,

the clicking of her keys twice as loud. Ninotchka picks up

the telephone.

The buzzer rings.

The three Cigarette Girls enter.

Ninotchka looks up astonished. Seeing her, the Cigarette

Girls freeze. The Russians stand by quietly.

MEDIUM SHOT -- LOBBY -- HOTEL CLARENCE -- EVENING

FADE IN:

shooting past the desk toward the revolving door. The

telephone rings and the Desk Clerk answers.

A few seconds later Ninotchka, naturally completely unaware

of the telephone conversation, passes by. She carries a map

in her hand.

EXTERIOR, HOTEL CLARENCE

Ninotchka emerges, unfolds the map.

CLOSE-UP -- MAP OF PARIS

in the hands of Ninotchka. The CAMERA ZOOMS down to a CLOSE-

UP of the little drawing of the Hotel Clarence on the map.

The CAMERA then PANS OVER from the Clarence toward the

opposite side of the street, but before we reach the opposite

side we see that in the center of the street is a little

isle of safety. The CAMERA proceeds PANNING to the opposite

side of the square and we

The Real Location Corresponding to That Seen on the Map and

seen from the same ANGLE. It is evening, and along the street

comes Leon on his way to the hotel. The CAMERA PANS with him

as he crosses the street. He reaches the isle of safety and

there passes Ninotchka, who has come from the other side.

They pass on the little isle without noticing each other.

Suddenly we hear the whistle of a traffic policeman and both

Ninotchka and Leon have to step back to the little isle.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA AND LEON

on the little isle. Wanting some information Ninotchka turns

to him -- completely impersonal.

Ninotchka gets out her map, starts to unfold it.

He takes her finger and points to the map with it.

Ninotchka starts to fold her map.

She walks away from him coldly. Leon stares after her,

fascinated.

ENTRANCE -- GROUND FLOOR OF THE EIFFEL TOWER

Camera moves with Ninotchka as she enters. She approaches an

Attendant.

Leon, who apparently has taken a taxi and prepared himself

otherwise, enters the scene, reading from a book.

The CAMERA goes with Ninotchka and Leon as they walk toward

the steps.

By now they have reached the staircase. They start up.

Ninotchka continues to climb.

MEDIUM SHOT -- STAIRS (FROM LEON'S ANGLE)

Ninotchka, paying no attention to him, walks up the stairs,

two at a time.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON

He looks after Ninotchka, then makes up his mind and returns

down the stairs.

GROUND FLOOR -- EIFFEL TOWER, shooting toward the elevator

door. The elevator with several passengers is just about to

leave when Leon hurries into it. The door closes and the

elevator starts to ascend quickly.

HIGHEST PLATFORM -- EIFFEL TOWER

The CAMERA ANGLE includes the elevator door and a beautiful

background view of Paris. The elevator door opens and Leon

emerges leisurely. He is just about to step to the top of

the staircase, when suddenly, to his great amazement, he

sees Ninotchka, who stands at the balustrade overlooking

Paris. She has climbed the tower faster than he despite the

elevator. Dumbfounded, Leon approaches her. Ninotchka turns,

very matter-of-fact.

Night View of Paris with Its Lights Ablaze, as seen from the

Eiffel Tower.

NINOTCHKA AND LEON

They walk toward the elevator as we

INTERIOR, ENTRANCE HALL -- LEON'S APARTMENT

In the foreground stands a console on which is a telephone.

Gaston, Leon's elderly, dignified butler, is answering the

phone.

He puts down the receiver as Leon opens the door with his

key. Ninotchka and Leon enter. Ninotchka, during the following

scene, is studying every detail of the apartment with the

eye of a technical expert.

Leon opens the door to the living room. Ninotchka enters.

Just as he is about to follow her, Gaston addresses him.

INTERIOR, LIVING ROOM -- LEON'S APARTMENT

Leon enters the room. Closes the door. Ninotchka is examining

the room.

Leon feels a little uncertain as to how to approach this

creature.

More and more puzzled and fascinated, Leon sits down close

to her.

A clock strikes.

He pauses, waiting for the results of his speech.

That is too much for Leon. He takes her into his arms and

kisses her.

Leon kisses her again.

The telephone rings.

Leon exits out of shot to answer telephone.

CLOSE SHOT -- AT DESK

Leon enters, sits down, takes the telephone.

CLOSE-UP -- NINOTCHKA

She is startled by the name.

LEON -- AT TELEPHONE

Camera pulls back and Ninotchka enters the shot. She takes

pencil from Leon's hand, writes out the name, and leaves

again. At first Leon is not aware of the full significance

of her action. Then it dawns on him.

At last the situation is entirely clear to him.

He hangs up and stares at Ninotchka. She is putting on her

jacket.

He takes her arm.

Ninotchka looks at him for a second, then pulls herself

together.

She starts for the door.

As she goes out, we

THE ENTRANCE HALL -- LEON'S APARTMENT

FADE IN:

(Note: We have to invent some brief scene to indicate that

three days have gone by. From this we)

The butler opens the door. Swana enters, her manner showing

her complete familiarity with the place.

LEON'S BEDROOM

The curtains are drawn. The night light is still on. Leon, a

dressing gown over his pajamas, is sound asleep in a big arm

chair. As Swana enters, she sees him with some alarm.

There is a knock at the door.

Gaston enters with a breakfast tray.

Gaston disappears into the bath-dressing room. Swana makes

Leon sit down and seats herself beside him.

Leon exits into the bathroom. As he does so a bell rings.

There is no answer. After a slight pause she herself goes to

answer the bell.

MEDIUM SHOT -- ENTRANCE HALL -- LEON'S APARTMENT, shooting

toward the door.

Swana goes to the door and opens it. The Three Russians stand

outside. Seeing Swana, they are a little intimidated.

Swana suspects that for the first time she is being confronted

by representatives of the Soviet government.

She closes the door.

STAIRCASE HALL -- IN FRONT OF LEON'S DOOR

The Three Russians, very impressed, stand looking at the

door which has just been closed.

At this moment the door is opened by Leon in his bathrobe.

They enter.

LIVING ROOM -- LEON'S APARTMENT

Leon and the Three Russians enter.

Leon is disappointed.

Leon is so engrossed in his thoughts that he overlooks the

hint.

An idea dawns on Iranoff.

Kopalski and Buljanoff seize on the same idea.

Swana's voice comes from the next room.

Leon goes back to the other room.

LEON'S BEDROOM -- CLOSE SHOT, shooting toward the door of

the living room.

Swana stands putting on her gloves.

She kisses him lightly and walks out.

LIVING ROOM -- ROYAL SUITE -- MEDIUM CLOSE SHOT -- AT THE

DESK

It is piled deep with law books and papers. Ninotchka sits

at it, conferring with two Lawyers.

The Lawyers exchange a glance of surprise at her knowledge.

One of them takes up one of the law books and as he starts

to look up the case, Ninotchka speaks.

Again the Lawyers exchange a glance of astonishment.

A LITTLE CORNER IN THE ROOM SERVICE PANTRY

Rakonin is answering the telephone.

He beckons to someone out of the scene. Leon enters the scene

and takes the telephone.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA -- AT THE PHONE

CLOSE SHOT -- ROOM-SERVICE PANTRY -- LEON AT PHONE

He hangs up the telephone with a triumphant smile.

LOBBY OF THE HOTEL CLARENCE

Ninotchka emerges from the elevator and starts toward the

street. As she passes the showcase of the millinery shop

again, she stops and looks at the same hat. Again she shakes

her head sadly.

She walks toward the street, as we

EXTERIOR, HOTEL CLARENCE

A taxi is parked at the curb. Ninotchka comes from the hotel

and goes to the taxi.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA AND TAXI DRIVER

The Driver puts his hand on the handle of his cab's door

expectantly.

He opens the door of his cab.

She turns and starts away in the direction he has indicated.

The Driver looks after her astounded.

The CAMERA PANS from her to the car which stands behind the

taxi. It is Leon's smart roadster. Leon sits at the wheel.

He too is looking after Ninotchka, astonished. He gets out

of his car and starts in the direction she has taken. As he

does so, we

PARIS STREET -- IN FRONT OF PERE MATHIEU'S

Pere Mathieu's is a workman's restaurant set a few steps

below the level of the sidewalk. A few typical French workmen

are going in for lunch. Ninotchka enters the scene, looks

around for a second, then goes in too.

INTERIOR -- PERE MATHIEU'S

It is a pleasantly simple place crowded with workmen sitting

at lunch. An electric piano is playing. Pere Mathieu, greeting

all his guests like a typical restaurateur, sees Ninotchka

enter.

He hands her a slate on which the menu is written.

Suddenly Ninotchka stares in the direction of the door.

MEDIUM SHOT -- AT THE DOOR

Leon has just entered. The CAMERA follows him as he makes

his way casually in Ninotchka's direction affecting not to

see her. He seats himself at the table directly opposite

Ninotchka and pretends to be overwhelmed with surprise as he

sees her.

SHOT INCLUDING BOTH TABLES

Leon leans toward Ninotchka with mock humility.

He waves off scene to a truckman.

TRUCKMAN

He is in the middle of an enormous gulp of food. He registers

surprise, winks at his companion, and then, deciding to humor

a drunk, waves back energetically at Leon in greeting.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON AND NINOTCHKA

Leon has been so successful with the truckman he tries it on

another.

Another truckman responds with equal exuberance.

LONG SHOT -- RESTAURANT

Leon, intoxicated with his success, waves to the whole room.

He gets a wonderful response from all. They realize that a

swell drunk is among them.

LEON AND NINOTCHKA

Pere Mathieu enters the shot and serves a plate of soup to

Leon and one to Ninotchka.

He exits out of shot.

Ninotchka, her suspicion confirmed, looks at Leon.

To get rid of him Ninotchka emits a joyless sound which

approximates a laugh.

There is no response from Ninotchka.

He gets up and speaks in a threatening voice audible to the

entire room.

GROUP OF SEVERAL WORKMEN

They have overheard the story and all burst into laughter.

NINOTCHKA AND LEON

Ninotchka continues to eat her soup without a shadow of a

laugh.

He sits down again.

He gets up and goes over to his table furiously.

In his excitement he leans on the shaky table. It topples

forward. Simultaneously his feet shoot from under him and he

sits violently on the floor, the contents of the table

crashing about him, hot soup in his face.

A terrific roar of laughter arises; the whole restaurant is

rocking with laughter.

For a split second Ninotchka makes an effort to control the

irresistible impulse to laugh but loses the battle and herself

roars with laughter.

Ninotchka's laughter is uncontrollable.

After a moment Leon gets up and sits next to her. As he dries

himself with his napkin he sees the humor of the situation

and starts to howl with laughter too. The ice is broken at

last!

On their mutual wild hilarity, we

LIVING ROOM -- ROYAL SUITE

FADE IN:

A conference is in session -- Ninotchka, her two Lawyers,

and the Three Russians. Ninotchka sits at the desk, leaning

back in the chair, looking into space, and apparently weighing

every point which is brought up. One of the lawyers is reading

from a document.

Suddenly Ninotchka laughs. Everyone looks at her astonished.

Ninotchka gets up.

The Three Russians as well as the Lawyers are puzzled.

The Russians exchange hopeful glances.

The Lawyers leave.

Left alone with the Russians, Ninotchka is unable to conceal

her happiness entirely.

The Russians stammer a negative answer.

Smiling benevolently, Ninotchka goes to the table, takes

several bills from her handbag, and goes back, extending a

fifty-franc bill to Kopalski.

The Three Russians leave. Ninotchka waits a moment. Then

hurries to the door and turns the key. Camera follows her as

she goes into the bedroom. She proceeds to the door leading

to the corridor and turns its key. She goes to the table and

takes a little key from her handbag, goes to the bureau and

unlocks the drawer, opens it, and, just as she is about to

take out something, her eye falls on the night table, where

she sees the picture of Lenin which she brought with her

from Moscow. She walks over to it and turns its face against

the wall, then goes back to the bureau and takes from the

drawer the very hat which twice aroused her disapproval when

it was displayed in the millinery shop in the lobby.

She moves over to the large mirror, puts the hat on her head,

is uncertain whether it is right side to fore, and changes

it. She looks at herself, aghast at seeing a complete

stranger. She sits down, still staring in the mirror, then

leans forward and rests her chin on her hand. As she sits

studying the new Ninotchka suspiciously, we

LIVING ROOM -- LEON'S APARTMENT

It is evening. Leon is walking nervously up and down. Gaston

is puttering over the drink table.

The door bell rings. Gaston starts for the door. With a

gesture Leon stops him.

Gaston leaves through the other door as Leon exits toward

the entrance hall.

ENTRANCE HALL -- LEON'S APARTMENT

Leon enters the scene. He opens the door. Outside stands

Ninotchka wearing her new hat timidly as well as a completely

new outfit which she has bought, apparently to match the new

hat. It takes Leon a few seconds to digest her new splendor.

He takes her hand and leads her in, closing the door. He

looks at her again and kisses her hand.

Leon leads her into the living room.

LIVING ROOM -- LEON'S APARTMENT

They both enter. Ninotchka pauses a second and looks around.

At this moment the clock starts to strike. They both look

toward it.

INSERT -- CLOCK

The hands register nine o'clock.

LEON AND NINOTCHKA

Leon wants to take her in his arms. She resists a little.

Leon turns on the victrola.

He walks back to Ninotchka, who by now is seated in an

armchair. He sits on the arm of the chair. He tries to make

a declaration of his love. He stammers several words.

It is no use. In a sudden outburst of emotion he takes her

in his arms and kisses her.

They kiss again. As the kiss ends they look at each other

for a second.

Ninotchka gets up and goes toward the desk, sits in the desk

chair, opens her handbag, which lies there, and takes from

it a little mirror and a lipstick. Before she uses it she

looks at Leon with guilty happiness. Leon looks at her with

great tenderness and walks over to the desk and stands looking

at her as she makes up her lips.

As soon as she is finished, Ninotchka slips the mirror and

lipstick back into her handbag and, as she does so, glances

at the top of the desk.

Leon too is completely serious by now. For answer he quietly

opens the drawer of the desk. Ninotchka looks in and takes

from the drawer the photograph. As she looks at it she rises.

Leon nods gravely.

Ninotchka nods sadly.

As he takes her in his arms, we

INTERIOR, SMART NIGHT CLUB

FADE IN:

Duchess Swana enters with a party consisting of General

Savitzky and five other smartly dressed people of the world.

The Headwaiter hurries to greet Swana.

Swana has grasped the situation by now.

In order to save the situation one of the ladies makes a

suggestion.

Camera moves with the group as the Headwaiter leads it toward

a table.

By now they have reached the table in the rear.

They sit down. The Headwaiter bends over General Savitzky,

an elderly Russian aristocrat, who sits next to Swana.

Swana laughs and everyone joins in her laughter.

As she is lighting a cigarette a guest suddenly looks toward

the entrance and sees Leon.

Joyfully Swana looks toward the entrance, as does everyone

else at the table.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON AT THE ENTRANCE

Suddenly, through the door of the cloakroom comes Ninotchka,

radiant in a beautiful evening gown.

SWANA'S TABLE

Swana's expression freezes as she sees Ninotchka. The rest

of the guests stare in an embarrassed silence, save for one

bird-brained little guest, named Marianne, who feels it her

mission to save the situation.

A neighbor nudges her warningly. Swana withers her with a

glance and rises.

Swana and the General leave for the dance floor. The guest

who has nudged her turns to Marianne.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON'S TABLE

Leon and Ninotchka are seated and a Waiter stands by them

presenting a bottle of champagne to Leon for his approval.

By now the Waiter is filling their glasses. Ninotchka lifts

her glass and looks at it.

Ninotchka takes her first sip of champagne. Leon drinks and

watches her. The first sip proves a painful surprise.

Ninotchka's face is that of a child who has been fed a bad

medicine.

She drinks the whole glass at once. Leon looks at her in

amused surprise. He drinks too. The Waiter fills their glasses

again.

They clink glasses and drink again, looking at each other.

LONG SHOT OF THE TABLE, including part of the dance floor.

As Leon and Ninotchka lift their glasses again, Swana and

General Savitzky start to dance by the table. Swana stops,

pretending complete astonishment.

Leon gets up. Ninotchka watches the scene tensely.

Leon knows that Swana wants to embarrass him but is

embarrassed nevertheless.

Swana sits down.

He bows and leaves.

CLOSE SHOT -- ALL THREE SITTING AT THE TABLE

During the following speech, Ninotchka's expression does not

change. She knows exactly the game Swana is playing.

Swana sits again, as does Leon.

Leon has grown more and more uncomfortable as the two ladies

fence.

Ninotchka and Leon realize the malice and yet the truth of

her words.

Swana leaves the table. Leon sits again. The mood of the two

has been changed by the problem of their separation, which

has been brought before them. They sit in silence for a

moment. Ninotchka speaks first.

Leon fills their glasses. They drink. Then Leon takes

Ninotchka's hand.

He stops.

They drink. The orchestra starts a number.

They both start toward the dance floor.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON AND NINOTCHKA, DANCING A WALTZ

At the second turn Ninotchka starts to feel the effect of

the champagne.

In the gayest mood, Ninotchka addresses the crowd on the

dance floor.

Leon starts to lead her off the dance floor.

By now they have almost reached the powder room.

Ninotchka goes unsteadily into the powder room. Leon wipes

his forehead in relief and goes to the bar, followed by the

CAMERA.

CLOSE SHOT -- DOOR OF THE POWDER ROOM

A group of four to six women come out whispering excitedly

about something which must have happened within.

CAMERA goes with them as they go to the Manager of the

restaurant and crowd about him and whisper what has happened.

CLOSE SHOT -- BAR

The bartender gives Leon his double brandy and Leon tosses

it off. The Manager comes into the shot and addresses Leon.

Leon stares at him for a second, then turns to the bartender.

The Manager bows and walks away. Leon gulps down the second

double brandy. The CAMERA follows him as he proceeds toward

the powder room like a hero going into battle. Just as he is

about to enter, a very dignified elderly lady comes out, is

surprised at his attempted entrance, and glares at him. Leon

loses his courage and FOLLOWED BY THE CAMERA goes back to

the bar to strengthen it with some of the Dutch variety.

LIVING ROOM -- THE ROYAL SUITE

Rakonin, the waiter, opens the door. Ninotchka and Leon,

both very tipsy by now, enter the room. Leon is carrying a

bottle of champagne in a napkin. As he passes the waiter he

speaks:

Rakonin, who seems very interested in the situation, closes

the door.

Leon goes to Ninotchka. Both sit on a couch.

Ninotchka is lyrically tight. Through her there shines a

great happiness.

She sinks into his arms and they kiss.

Leon gets up.

Still carrying the champagne bottle, Leon leads her to the

end of the room and stands her against the wall. He takes

the napkin from the champagne bottle and puts it over her

eyes. The CAMERA moves with him as he goes away from

Ninotchka, and as he walks he starts to open the champagne.

The cork pops.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA, as she sinks gently into a chair.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA AND LEON

Confusedly Ninotchka starts looking for something, repeating,

"a little knob... a little knob." Followed by Leon she goes

toward the safe, opens the concealing door, and both are

delighted as they see the safe's dial.

Leon nods approval and starts to turn the dial.

Leon follows her instructions.

He takes her in his arms and again they embrace.

Leon again follows her instructions.

INTERIOR -- SAFE, shooting toward the door.

Leon opens the door and both look into the safe.

Through her fog, Ninotchka becomes aware of the case

containing the jewels.

From the case of jewels he takes a beautiful diadem and holds

it in front of her.

Leon takes her by the hand and leads her from the safe.

Ninotchka falls in with the spirit of this imaginary

coronation.

Ninotchka turns to an imaginary assemblage.

She falls asleep in his arms. Leon gathers her up and carries

her into the bedroom, the diadem still on her head.

BEDROOM -- THE ROYAL SUITE

Leon carries Ninotchka to the bed, puts her down on it. She

is now sleeping soundly. He kisses her once more and then

turns, the CAMERA PANNING with him, and starts toward the

door to the corridor and exits. As he closes the door with

an uncertain hand, it slams.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA, as she lies on the bed

On the night table beside her is a photograph of the stern-

faced Lenin. The crash of the slamming door awakens Ninotchka

for a moment. Completely content and happy, she turns around

and sees the disapproving face of the photograph.

INSERT OF PHOTOGRAPH OF LENIN

The photograph of Lenin starts to smile in approval, as we...

AN ESTABLISHING SHOT OF PARIS -- DAY

FADE IN ON:

IN THE FOREGROUND a clock shows that it is a quarter to

twelve.

LONG SHOT -- LIVING ROOM OF THE ROYAL SUITE

It is taken from an ANGLE which includes the door. The lights

are still on, the curtains drawn, the empty champagne bottle

and glasses litter the room. We hear the buzzer of the

corridor door ring several times without an answer.

CAMERA moves through the door into the bedroom, never

disclosing the bed. The lights in the bedroom are still

lighted also and the curtains drawn. CAMERA stops on the

door from the bedroom to the corridor. The buzzer rings.

Apparently the caller has moved from the living-room door to

the bedroom door.

CLOSE SHOT OF THE BED

Ninotchka is lying on the bed, still in her evening dress.

The diadem is no longer on her head, but no special emphasis

is laid on that detail in the camera angle. We hear the sound

of the buzzer ringing again and again. Ninotchka half wakens

and calls out something which sounds like "come in" without

being fully aware of what she is doing.

BEDROOM -- AT THE DOOR

The door is opened from the outside by a maid, who lets in

the Duchess Swana, dressed in a smart morning outfit. Swana

looks around, surprised and amused at the state of the room.

She walks over to the bed where lies Ninotchka, still not

enough awake to face reality. Swana is delighted to have

surprised Ninotchka in this condition.

By now Ninotchka is awake. She gets up and realizes to her

acute embarrassment the condition in which Swana has found

her.

During Swana's speech Ninotchka has found herself completely.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON'S HAT, shot through the bedroom door into

the living room where it lies on the table.

LONG SHOT -- LIVING ROOM -- TOWARD BEDROOM DOOR

By the bed stand Ninotchka and Swana. Swana starts toward

the living room, Ninotchka following her.

Ninotchka's words for the first time sting Swana out of her

apparently superficial attitude.

The word diadem startles Ninotchka. She starts to remember

the night before, and she looks toward the safe.

INSERT OF THE DOOR OF THE SAFE, which is closed by now.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA AND SWANA

Ninotchka stares in the direction of the safe as Swana

chatters on.

Abruptly she walks toward the bedroom.

TRAVELING SHOT OF NINOTCHKA

She enters the small room connecting the living room and

bedroom and closes the door to the living room. She walks

into the bedroom toward the bed and glances at it. The diadem

is not there. After going back into the anteroom, she opens

the outer door of the safe and pulls on the inner door. It

has not been properly closed and opens at once. The safe is

empty. Ninotchka stands staring in frozen horror for a moment,

then rushes to the telephone by the bed.

LONG SHOT -- NINOTCHKA AT THE TELEPHONE, waiting for her

connection

In the background the door to the living room is opened by

Swana.

Ninotchka hangs up the receiver and stares at Swana. She

walks toward her.

LIVING ROOM, SHOOTING INTO THE BEDROOM. In the foreground

Swana, in the background Ninotchka, who is hurrying toward

her.

She proceeds into the living room, followed by Ninotchka.

They both sit.

Ninotchka knows herself to be faced with an inevitable

decision. For a moment she cannot answer. The telephone rings.

Ninotchka takes the receiver.

Much as she wants to talk to him she hesitates in the presence

of Swana. Swana realizes the situation, gets up, and walks

over to the window, where she stands looking out.

CLOSE-UP -- NINOTCHKA AT TELEPHONE

ANTEROOM BETWEEN LIVING ROOM AND CORRIDOR, shooting toward

the living room. In the background we see Swana standing at

the window. Ninotchka comes into the anteroom, closes the

door in order to shut off Swana's view. Camera pans with

Ninotchka as she walks toward the hall door where the bellboy

is putting down a big flower basket.

The bellboy exits. Ninotchka looks at the basket of flowers

for a moment, then takes the envelope which is attached to

the handle. She opens it and reads the enclosed letter. It

must be a love note, for her eyes grow wet. She turns to the

last page.

INSERT

"...and sweetheart, I have kept my first promise. I sent

poor old Gaston to the market this morning and if you will

look deep into the flowers you will see what I got for

him...."

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA

She puts her hand in the basket and takes out a bottle of

milk.

INSERT OF THE BOTTLE

On the label we see a picture of a goat.

NINOTCHKA

She smiles sadly and goes to the telephone, which is on the

console in the anteroom.

She puts down the receiver. Camera pans with her as she goes

to the door of the living room. She opens the door and goes

in. Swana turns from the window.

SWANA -- AT THE AIRPORT

shooting from a HIGH ANGLE. We hear the SOUND of an airplane

just taking off. Camera pulls back so that Swana seems to be

photographed from the airplane. Finally the SHOT discloses

the whole airport and Swana disappearing into the crowd.

ENTRANCE HALL -- SWANA'S APARTMENT

Swana's maid is opening the door for Swana, who enters in

the highest spirits.

Swana inspects herself briefly in the hall mirror, proceeds

into the living room.

LIVING ROOM -- SWANA'S APARTMENT

Leon is pacing up and down. Swana enters.

Swana picks up the receiver of the telephone and holds it

out to him.

THE MOSCOW PLANE

It is flying past the Eiffel Tower.

CLOSE SHOT -- AIRPLANE WINDOW

Behind the window we see Ninotchka looking at Paris for the

last time. Camera moves over to the next window and we see

Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski also giving Paris a sad

farewell look.

ANOTHER VIEW OF PARIS, from the air. The mist has closed in

by now so that only the top of the Eiffel Tower is visible

above it.

CLOSE-UP -- NINOTCHKA, looking down on the Tower

INTERIOR, Airplane -- Ninotchka, Buljanoff, Iranoff, and

Kopalski

Ninotchka turns from the window and leans against the back

of her chair. The Russians follow her example. There is a

moment of silence and sadness.

CLOSE-UP -- NINOTCHKA

She is trying to overcome all sentimentality, but as the

following speech progresses she cannot escape the personal

implication involved.

FADE IN:

INSERT OF A PARIS NEWSPAPER

HERALD DU MATIN

Camera zooms down on a headline of an article.

Mercier buys priceless russian jewels. Russian commission

has left for moscow.

STREET IN PARIS -- MORNING

Camera follows Leon as he walks excitedly and nervously along

the boulevard. He turns into a Russian Intouriste Bureau,

one of the travel bureaus maintained by the Soviet government

in foreign countries to supply information regarding travel,

give visas, etc.

INTOURISTE BUREAU

It is a typical travel bureau. Behind the counter are

attendants and some people getting information and pamphlets.

Leon enters, looks around, and sees a door which says "Visas

and Passport Department." He enters.

INTERIOR, VISA ROOM

It is a room smaller than the previous one. Behind the counter

stands a typical Bolshevik Official. In front of the counter

is an elderly English lady. Leon takes his place behind her,

nervous at having to wait. The Official stamps the English

lady's passport and hands it to her.

She leaves. Leon moves up to the Official.

At this moment the telephone rings. The Official takes the

receiver.

He hangs up the receiver. Leon, thinking of Ninotchka, is

horrified by this statement.

Leon, feeling that he has to go to the rescue of his girl,

whips up an enormous enthusiasm for the cause.

At this moment Swana enters.

The Official gasps in surprise.

His words are unmistakably a final dismissal. She walks out.

Leon looks after her for a second, then goes back to the

Official. He tries to laugh off the incident.

The Official laughs in a superior way.

The Official leans forward sarcastically.

With a knock-out blow, Leon sends him to the floor, then,

leaning over the counter, he shouts.

He strides out.

The Official's head emerges from the counter. As he adjusts

his bruised jaw, he speaks.

Establishing Shot of Russia -- First of May -- Stock Shot of

May Day Parade on the Red Square

FADE IN ON:

RADIO ANNOUNCER

Workmen, soldiers, tanks, airplanes, etc.

Column of Women, dressed in typical Russian May Day parade

fashion, marching and saluting. The CAMERA NARROWS DOWN to a

CLOSE SHOT OF Ninotchka marching with the others. All her

individuality is gone. She is one of many, a cog in the

Russian machine. With a stern expression she is looking

straight ahead when suddenly something attracts her attention

and she glances to one side.

A Column of Male Workers is coming in the opposite direction.

Buljanoff, Iranoff, and Kopalski are recognizable among them.

CLOSE SHOT -- BULJANOFF, IRANOFF, AND KOPALSKI MARCHING. All

three are already pretty exhausted from the long march.

Kopalski sees Ninotchka. He whispers it to the others. The

three look toward Ninotchka and lift their shoulders with a

gesture which says, "Look where we are now."

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA, answering them with a sad smile.

After they have passed she stares straight forward again

with the same stern expression.

PANNING SHOT -- STAIRCASE IN NINOTCHKA'S TENEMENT HOUSE

It is an overcrowded house. People are walking up and down

stairs, standing grouped in front of the various apartments;

children are sliding down the banisters and playing games

under the feet of the adults.

Ninotchka trudges upstairs wearily. Camera pans with her as

she goes into an apartment which is divided into several sub-

apartments. Finally she opens the door of her own room and

goes in.

NINOTCHKA'S ROOM

It is a comparatively small room, which she shares with two

other girls. As she enters only one girl is present. It is

Anna, a cello player, who sits on the edge of her bed

practicing on her cello. Apparently Ninotchka has not adjusted

herself completely to the Moscow which she once thought so

great.

During the following scene Anna puts her cello in its case

and gets ready to go to her job. Ninotchka starts to arrange

the table in the center of the floor for a party of four.

Out of her cupboard she takes very primitive-looking dishes,

a flower pot, glasses, and a kind of shawl which serves as a

tablecloth.

Anna is apparently not a fanatical believer in the Bolshevik

regime and takes a cynical and humorous attitude toward it.

At this moment a door to one of the adjoining rooms opens

and Gurganov, a middle-aged man with a sour stool-pigeon

expression, walks quietly through the room to another door,

taking in the girls with one sly glance and giving the

impression that not only his eyes but his ears are open.

Anna breaks off her remark.

She walks over to her cupboard and takes out a piece of

lingerie and comes back to Ninotchka with it.

Ninotchka suddenly is transported to Paris in her memory.

Anna is for a moment speechless over this generous gift. She

embraces and kisses Ninotchka.

She kisses her again, takes her cello, and starts to leave.

Anna exits, closing the door. Ninotchka is left alone. Her

thoughts are still in the other world, obviously with Leon.

Mechanically she looks over the table to see if everything

is all right, then she walks over to the radio (a primitive

little machine). As she turns the knob she smiles again

reminiscently. As she does, the blare of a Russian speech

brings her back to reality.

Quickly she turns the knob and again there is a burst of

Russian oratory.

SECOND VOICE ON RADIO

...From the Exploiters for the Toilers. We are going full

steam ahead through industrialization toward socialism. Let

us put the Union of Socialistic Soviet Republics into an

automobile and the muzhik into a tractor, and then let the

capitalists try to keep up with us! The same thing happens

for a third time.

THIRD VOICE ON RADIO

...and thirty million peasants, eighty-five per cent of the

population owned three hundred forty-three million four

hundred and sixty-nine thousand acres of land, sixty-five

per cent of the total area. And one hundred and fifty thousand

nobles possessed thirty-five per cent of the country's natural

wealth!

Ninotchka turns off the radio. She closes her eyes for a

moment and with a sad smile murmurs to herself.

At this moment the door opens, and Buljanoff, Iranoff, and

Kopalski enter. There follow warm greetings between Ninotchka

and the Three Russians.

A moment of silence follows. The four look at each other as

people do who share a secret.

Iranoff and Buljanoff have joined them at the window.

Iranoff unties his egg from his handkerchief.

He hands it to Ninotchka.

Buljanoff reaches in his pocket and from his expression we

see that a catastrophe must have happened.

The group all go to the gas cooker and Ninotchka starts to

make the omelet. The others stand around as though they were

watching a great event.

The door through which Gurganov disappeared opens and Gurganov

comes out.

The conversation stops. Gurganov walks quietly through the

room, again observing everything. He goes out at last.

There is a dead silence. All are again aware of the reality

which surrounds. They concentrate quietly on the frying pan.

INSERT OF THE FRYING PAN

The eggs are gradually taking the shape of an omelet.

INSERT OF A PLATE ON THE TABLE

Only the last scraps of the omelet are on it. Buljanoff's

hand comes in with a big piece of bread with which he sops

up every fragment that is left.

MEDIUM SHOT -- NINOTCHKA'S ROOM -- EVENING

The curtains are drawn and the lamp lighted. All four are

sitting around the table, in the center of which is a samovar.

In front of each of them is a glass of tea. One of the

Russians is playing a balalaika and all are singing gaily,

"Paris."

Ninotchka is enjoying their companionship. After a little

while the door to the corridor opens and Ninotchka's other

roommate, the street-car conductor, strides in. She is a

squareset, unfriendly woman in uniform.

At sight of her one of the Russians nudges Ninotchka, makes

the gesture of ringing up a fare, and accompanies it with an

inquiring look. Ninotchka nods. The Russians change their

tune quickly to the "Volga Boatman" in order not to awaken

animosity.

The street-car conductor goes to her bed and starts to take

off her shoes and her coat, then draws the curtain. During

the following scene we hear the splash of water and the sound

of gargling.

Again Gurganov crosses the room, this time accompanied by

his little son.

Suddenly the door is opened by Vladimir, a friendly old man.

He hands her a letter and exits.

CLOSE SHOT -- NINOTCHKA

She takes the letter, glances at the envelope, and is stunned.

She turns the envelope -- an expression of breathless wonder

comes over her face.

Ninotchka sits in the chair nearest the lamp. All three are

looking over her shoulder. Ninotchka hesitates to open the

letter, obviously wanting to read it all by herself. Realizing

her feelings, the Three Russians walk to the far end of the

room and sit down on a little bench, looking toward Ninotchka

with childlike expectancy. In great anticipation Ninotchka

opens the letter. She starts to read it. Suddenly her

expression changes to one of terrific disappointment. She

turns the letter over, glances at the second page, then puts

the letter down on the table. The Russians have followed her

expression closely. Slowly they walk over to her.

Iranoff picks up the letter. All three look at it.

Insert of First Page of Letter, held in Iranoff's hand. In

Leon's handwriting we read:

"Ninotchka, my darling,"

The rest of the writing is blocked out, line by line, and

across the page is a big stamp which says "Censored."

Iranoff's hand turns the page. The second page is also

censored except for the final words,

"Yours, Leon."

SHOT OF THE WHOLE GROUP

Iranoff puts the letter back on the table. They all understand

and realize that Ninotchka wants to be alone.

Ninotchka rises and shakes their hands.

The three start to leave but Buljanoff returns and whispers

to Ninotchka.

Ninotchka presses his hand. He walks quietly out with the

others.

Ninotchka, left alone, sits down. She is heartbroken. Her

thoughts are too sad and too far away to be disturbed by the

snoring which comes from the corner where the street-car

conductor has gone to bed.

CLOSE SHOT -- THE WINDOW OF RAZININ'S OFFICE

FADE IN:

shooting from the inside. Through the window the background

of Moscow. It is winter and snow is on the roofs. The CAMERA

PULLS BACK and discloses Razinin sitting at his desk, reading

a report with a stern expression.

MEDIUM SHOT -- RAZININ'S OFFICE

Ninotchka enters carrying several folders. She walks to

Razinin's desk and stands waiting for him to recognize her

presence. She is a tired, stern girl. Razinin looks up.

Ninotchka sits.

Ninotchka has to suppress a smile of amusement at the antics

of her three old friends.

She exits, as we

ESTABLISHING SHOT OF CONSTANTINOPLE, on a bright sunlit day,

if possible with the circling shadow of an airplane.

LONG SHOT -- AIRPORT IN CONSTANTINOPLE, shooting from an

airplane angle. A crowd is awaiting the arrival of a plane.

The CAMERA goes down to a CLOSE SHOT of Buljanoff, Iranoff,

and Kopalski, standing in the crowd.

All three are very elegantly and gaily dressed. They are in

the happiest mood. One of them carries a large bouquet of

flowers to greet Ninotchka.

LIVING ROOM OF A VERY LUXURIOUS HOTEL SUITE IN CONSTANTINOPLE.

Its style should suggest the locale. Ninotchka enters with

the Three Russians, who are very happy to have her with them

again.

Ninotchka protests, but during the whole scene it is evident

that behind her protestations there is none of the force and

conviction she displayed in a similar situation in the Royal

Suite.

Ninotchka looks toward the balcony and is dumbfounded as she

sees Leon standing there smiling at her. He walks quietly

toward her.

Leon takes her hand and kisses it. The Three Russians exchange

glances. The CAMERA PANS WITH THEM --leaving Ninotchka and

Leon as Russians walk discreetly out of the room and close

the door behind them.

CLOSE SHOT -- LEON AND NINOTCHKA

Ninotchka is aware that she is facing a decision. She knows

what she wants but still tries to evade a definite answer.

Leon takes her in his arms, they kiss as we

