A tense surgery in progress.  Meters flicker, instruments

flash in the bright overhead light.  In the midst of it all

stands DR. DAVID RAVELL, 35.  The master of his domain.

Ravell leans forward so a NURSE can mop the sweat from his

brow as he completes a last, delicate procedure.  His co

workers sigh collectively with relief.

Dr. Ravell comes out of surgery, clearly exhausted.  Without

his surgical mask he is ruggedly handsome.  TWO NURSES

follow, attending him like a fighter fresh from the ring:

CHLOE, 25, Raven-haired and striking, and JASMINE, 24, an

exotic mix of African-American and Asian.

BLAKE DANIELS, 58, the silver-haired Chief Surgeon, rushes up

the corridor.  On his heels is DR. LONNIE WALSH, 33. Lonnie

is also conspicuously handsome, but he'll always be second to

David.  In everything.

The look on Blake's face stops David in his tracks.

David rubs his eyes.  Thinks about it.

His bravery isn't lost on the two nurses, although Chloe

exchanges a quick, covert glance with Lonnie.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: WE ARE LOOKING AT A TELEVISION SCREEN

BEHIND THE COUNTER OF A SMALL-TOWN DINER.

INSERT:            FAIR OAKS, KANSAS

Quaint, Midwestern eatery.  Knick-knacks and photos abound.

The booths and counter are packed with LOCALS.  A family

dining section off in one corner.

TWO GUYS sitting at the counter in team jackets.  The older

of the two holds up his empty coffee cup.  But his WAITRESS,

standing a couple seats down from him, doesn't move. She's

completely absorbed in watching the soap opera that plays on

two battered, fuzzy TV sets.

BETTY SIZEMORE, 30, has a wholesome attractiveness that

competes with a bit too much makeup and a cheesy white

waitress uniform. TWO OTHER WAITRESSES attend to customers

behind her.

The younger of the two guys is involved in the soap opera.

But the older one, still wants coffee.  He gestures toward

Betty.

Betty leans forward, grabs the coffee pot and moves in front

of him.  Without taking her eyes from the TV, she pours the

java, which somehow lands in his cup without spilling a drop.

The LOCAL GUYS around him don't even bother to look up. Of

course, they've seen it before.  Betty smiles.

Before he can even finish, Betty is topping him off with

milk.

The older gentleman's mouth works a bit but nothing comes

out.  He is flabbergasted by her attention to detail.  She

looks at the younger man, who is still following the show and

gobbling down a huge bacon burger.

Betty turns back to change pots.  The older man watches her

intently as the younger of the two mumbles to himself.

Betty flashes the men a winning smile and moves off, one eye

always on the TV as she approaches two local types.

SHERIFF ELDEN BALLARD, 32, a short, tightly wound little man,

sitting at his own booth.  Ballard is spit and polish all the

way:  creases in his shirt, a glossy shine on his shoes.

Badge proudly displayed.  He sits with

ROY OSTREY, 31, a gangly, bookish local reporter.  Betty

drops five ketchup packets and four mayonnaise packets on the

table for him.  Another smile.

His cup is full before he can even finish the sentence.

Betty grabs Ballard's plate without another word, gives him a

reassuring rub on the shoulders and moves off.  He smiles

appreciatively after her, then turns on Roy.

Still carrying Ballard's plate, she returns to the counter.

Betty and the cooks share a quick laugh.  They move to change

his order while Betty glances up at the TV.

Lonnie catches up to Blake in the corridor.

Blake exits.  The camera moves in to hold on a CLOSEUP of

Lonnie's face as he simmers in anger.  Music soars.

Plates of food are piling up on the shelf in front of the

COOKS.  One of them turns the TV off by remote.

Betty snatches up several plates to help out.  Ballard's food

appears with A CLATTER of porcelain.

Frustrated, Betty delivers several plates and drops them at

tables where the people know her by name.  She moves off

toward FOUR LOCAL GUYS in a booth jangling their empty cups.

Betty weaves her way over to them and pours refills.  When a

hand strays around to touch her ass, she pushes it away with

her foot and keeps right on pouring. Absently, Betty takes a

look around the restaurant.  The other waitresses are gone

and no one is behind the grill.  Alarmed, she pushes through

the double doors into the kitchen.

THREE WAITRESSES, along with the DISHWASHER and TWO COOKS are

standing in a row waiting for her.

No one moves, then DARLENE leads them in a huge SURPRISE!

They produce a life-size cardboard cut-out of Dr. David

Ravell, who looks dashing in his green hospital scrubs.

Betty backs up in disbelief.

Betty laughs and puts her arm around the cardboard man.  A

flash photo is taken.  A cupcake with a single candle is

placed in her hands.

Darlene gives Betty an envelope with cash showing.

The others laugh; they know better.  So does Betty.

Smiling, Betty grabs a wall phone as the others mingle about.

The trailer/office of a small-time car dealership. As the

PHONE RINGS, the CAMERA PANS across pictures of DEL SIZEMORE,

35, dressed as Napoleon, Caesar and Abe Lincoln, arms raised

in a high-energy sales pitch.

The PHONE RINGS again.  We see a framed certificate of

achievement from General Motors, dated 1986.

After the THIRD RING an ANSWERING MACHINE clicks on. It's

loud.

Del's very busy.  He's on the rented sofa in the trailer's

lounge, screwing his secretary, JOYCE.  But as he rocks the

couch, he's listening to Betty's message.

Del pulls out and lurches across the room.  He reaches for

the desk phone but misses, spilling down onto the carpet.  He

gathers himself and his pants up in disgust, pawing around

the desktop until he finds the phone.

The answering machine is on, so their VOICES are BOOMING. The

phone cord is stretched across the trailer as he tries to get

back to Joyce.  He motions for her to join him but she

remains where she is, fuming.

LONG PAUSE. Joyce looks at Del, incredulous. Then pissed off.

He signals to hold on.

Joyce wriggles to a sitting position and begins to pull up

her panties.  Del shoots her a look that says 'I'm not

finished yet!'  They pantomime frantically back and forth

until Joyce throws him the finger and SLAMS out the door.

He throws the phone onto the cradle, then bangs on a window

to get Joyce's attention as she fires up a smoke.

As Del zips up his pants Joyce trudges across the lot to

bring in the "Closed For Lunch" sign and open the gate.  Del

silently studies the much nicer car lot next door for a

moment.  He takes in the banners, the signs, etc.

Betty enters the office.  Joyce is on the phone.  She looks

up, irritated, and says something under her breath to the

caller.

Betty nods and swaps her car keys for a set Joyce gives her.

As Joyce prattles on, Betty notices the Buick LeSabre keys on

a rack behind her.  She sidles around Joyce, deftly removes a

set from the hook and drops them in her purse.  She smiles

and starts to wave goodbye as Joyce puts her call on hold.

She whispers, then laughs loudly as Betty leaves.

The cardboard doctor is standing next to Betty's Olds.  She

thinks about leaving him, but picks him up and tosses him

into a blue Corsica.  He lands with his face against the

passenger window.

She stands for a moment by the Corsica, dangling the LeSabre

keys before her eyes.  Suddenly, she jumps inside the

Chevrolet and slams the door.

The blue Corsica leaves the parking lot and pulls onto the

street.  The car makes an abrupt turn into a trailer park

directly behind the car lot and glides to a halt behind a row

of battered airstreams.

Betty gets outs of the Chevy and looks back:  the handsome

face of Doctor David Ravell is staring at her from the car.

She goes back to pick him up, then starts off.

A row of cheap trailers on both sides of a crumbling

driveway.  Betty appears with her cardboard man tucked under

one arm and then disappears behind a pickup truck.

She tosses the cardboard "David" over a concrete slab wall,

climbs over herself and walks straight to the LeSabres.  Her

key opens the last one - maroon. She puts the doctor on the

passenger seat, gets in the car and inhales the new car

smell.

Joyce can be seen inside the trailer, still talking on the

phone.  She misses the whole scene as she works on her nails.

Betty has the car at 75 m.p.h., on the rural Kansas roads,

wheat fields for miles on both sides of her.  The RADIO is

blasting Bonnie Raitt and she's singing along.

She sees her speed and punches the accelerator ... 80 m.p.h.

... 85 ... 90 m.p.h.  She turns the radio up louder.

When she approaches a sign saying "You are leaving Kansas"

Betty suddenly becomes self-conscious.  She eases up on the

gas ... slows down ... does a U-turn and heads back toward

Fair Oaks.  She glances wistfully in her rear view mirror at

the billboard that quickly fades into the distance.

Betty enters a modest residential neighborhood and pulls into

a driveway.  She parks in a detached garage and looks over at

the cardboard David.  There's no way he's going in the house.

She puts him in the trunk and closes the garage door.

She walks several houses down.  On her way to the door we

hear a DOG BARKING, CHILDREN and GENERAL COMMOTION from

inside.  SUE ANN ROGERS answers Betty's knock.  Her hair is

matted with sweat as she struggles with CHILDREN, ages 4, 3

and 6 months.  Suddenly, Sue Ann is hit by an errant rubber

ball.

Betty takes the baby as Sue Ann pulls a videotape from a

shelf.  It's all one move; they do this every day.

After a beat ...

Betty forces a smile, kisses the baby and hands it back to

Sue Ann, who hands her the videotape.

Betty throws her a look as Sue Ann closes the door.  Betty

turns around, frustrated.  She starts yanking her apron off

as she crosses the street.

A low-end ranch.  A worn-out sofa and loveseat form an 'L'

that dominates the living room.  Romance novels line a small

bookcase.  SIX CANARIES in cages chatter away in the kitchen.

Del sits at the dining room table, agitated.  He is presently

attacking a pork chop, baked beans and a loaf of Wonderbread.

All we hear is A FORK CLICKING and BIRDS CHIRPING.  Betty

stands at the breakfast counter, barefoot, still in her

uniform and quietly eating a salad.

Del BELCHES, smiles, then CLUCKS at the birds nearby.

Del almost comes out of his chair, pointing his finger at

her.

Betty hides her reaction.

Truce for a moment.  Del plucks a copy of Soap Opera Guide

from Betty's purse while absently taking a bite from Betty's

cupcake.  He narrowly misses the candle.

She silently mimics him as he says...

Del lurches to his feet and crosses to the bird cages as the

canaries CHIRP and SING EXCITEDLY at his approach.

He exits.  She collects his dirty dishes, puts them in the

sink and starts to wash them.  Then she stops.

She drops the dishes with a clatter, pours herself a glass of

wine, lights the candle on her deflowered cupcake and opens

the one card on the table.

CLOSE ON

a traditional greeting from her grandparents.  Red hearts and

lace.  A color photo of them enclosed.

Betty smiles at this.  After moment, she quietly sings a

quick refrain of "Happy Birthday" to herself.

Standing wrapped only in a towel, Lonnie speaks into the

phone.

The beautiful nurse Chloe is curled up seductively on her

sofa with her phone in one hand and a cigarette in the other.

Betty hits FAST FORWARD.  Characters flit on and off the

screen at top speed until David Ravell appears.

Chloe's magnificent legs are folded into the seat of David's

560 SL.  She struggles with her seatbelt, so he helps her.

She makes sure their hands touch.

David smiles, a little uncomfortable.

She puts her hand over his on the gear shift.  A moment.

Finally, he has to move her fingers to start the car.

BETTY sits on an old couch in the den and watches, eyes glued

to the screen.  Suddenly, she hears the sound of TIRES ON

GRAVEL.  HEADLIGHTS sweep across the window.

She hits PAUSE and crosses to look out.

Del gets out of a black Lincoln Town Car, followed by CHARLIE

and WESLEY - the guys in the team jackets from the diner.

Charlie is 63 years old.  He wears a dress shirt, slacks and

docksiders.  The suburban father look.

Wesley is 28. He's in jeans, T-shirt and white Reeboks. Clean

cut; the kid who used to mow your parents' lawn.

Betty quickly snaps out the light and closes the door until

it is open only a crack.

Del swaggers into the house.  The two men follow politely.

Del stops and looks around, deflated by the mess.

The den is only a short flight of steps from the living room

and the kitchen.  Betty has a clean view of both from where

she sits on the couch.

She hears Del come in, but doesn't take her eyes off the TV

screen.

Del crosses to an old stereo and puts on an LP.  He smiles as

the music overtakes the room.  Charlie and Wesley stand

nearby, appreciating the quaintness of the surroundings.

Del crosses to the cupboard.  Charlie and Wesley stand

leisurely in the living room.

Wesley looks at a wedding portrait of Del and Betty.

Del reaches into the fridge and produces a Miller for Wesley,

then mixes two drinks and walks into the dining room and

Charlie and Wesley follow to the table and sit down.

They raise their glasses and drink.  Del tosses back his

drink in one gulp.

Chloe is on top of David, kissing him on the mouth as he

resists.  He finally has to push her away forcibly, and we

hear a TEARING SOUND.  Chloe's blouse has been ripped.

She starts to cry.  David reaches out to comfort her.

David looks up to find her lips on his.  In spite of himself,

he gives in to the warmth of her kiss and responds hungrily.

Betty is mesmerized.

The men have retired into the dining room, sitting or

standing around a worn wooded table.  Charlie and Wesley are

just finishing their drinks.

Off a look from Charlie, Wesley produces a pistol and gently

nudges the barrel into Del's ear.

Del slowly takes his shoes and socks off.  He's sweating,

trembling.

Del does it.

At a sharp look from Charlie, Del obediently stuffs the socks

into his mouth and starts to cry.  Wesley produces a roll of

duct tape and fastens Del's hands to the back of his chair.

Betty is glued to the TV, oblivious to the men.  Chloe and

David are still talking in his car.  She continues to cry.

Del nods; crying, sweating.

Del nods again.  Wesley collects Charlie's glass and mixes

him another drink.  He gets a beer for himself and stands

behind Del.  Charlie sips his drink slowly, savoring it.

Del's eyes get huge.

Wesley produces a long knife and traces a line across the

very top of Del's forehead.  Trickles of blood wind their way

down his brow.  Del is MOANING and PANTING through his socks.

Wesley takes a jab at Del's forehead with his knife, leaving

a small cut.

Del starts twitching, rocking back and forth as Wesley grabs

a fistful of his hair.

Del stops moving. He breathes furiously through his nostrils.

Charlie pulls the socks out of Del's mouth.  Del splutters,

gasping for air.

David enters.  Blake nods to him grimly.

HOLD on David's shocked expression ...  MUSIC UP AS

Betty's not sure what Del said, but the panic in his voice

got through.  She hits PAUSE and takes a look.

Del is facing her, tiny rivulets of blood running into his

terrified eyes.  Wesley stands at his shoulder, still holding

a handful of his hair, still poised with the knife.

Annoyed, Charlie stuffs the socks back in Del's mouth.

Betty stares.  Her gaze shifts from Del to Wesley, drawn by

Wesley's demonic expression.

Wesley stares at the top of Del's head.  Betty stares at

Wesley.  Charlie walks into the kitchen for another drink.

Wesley's nostrils flare.  Betty leans forward.

And with a long SCREAM, Wesley rips Del's scalp from his

head. It makes a sickening sound like fabric tearing.  For a

long moment, there is only silence.  An eerie silence.

Suddenly, Del SCREAMS into his socks and thrashes in his

seat, blood pouring down his head on all sides.

Somehow, he manages to get to his feet, the chair still taped

to him, and begins smashing into whatever is near.  Blood

flies and curios shatter as Del thunders through the room.  A

dying bull, only messier.  It's quite a show.

Wesley steps back, staring at the dripping scalp in his hand,

as if wondering how it got there.  Betty is transfixed,

horrified.

Charlie re-enters.  The two men look at each other over Del's

MUFFLED SCREAMS as he plows headlong into wooden paneling, a

china cabinet, and finally, back toward them near the

breakfast counter.  Del bashes blindly into it.

Wesley is practically foaming at the mouth, still rushing on

what he did.  Charlie draws a silenced pistol and mercifully

SHOOTS Del through the head.  The big man stops suddenly,

blinks once or twice, topples over.

Betty points her remote at the dining room and clicks it, as

if trying to make the image disappear.  Finally, she gives

up, slowly turning away from the carnage and aims at the TV.

"A Reason to Love" pauses on the face of David Ravell and

Betty sits in absolute silence.

Charlie quickly begins to hide their tracks, producing a

plastic baggie and collecting the beer cans and his own

glass.  He also wipes down the fridge as Wesley watches.

Wesley crosses to the garbage can, steps on the lever.  He

looks at the scalp one more time before dropping it in.

They exit the house.

Betty is still in the family room, staring at the TV.  She

pushes 'play' again and David Ravell begins to speak.

Sue Ann comes out of her house, balancing a homemade cake in

front of her.  The candles give off an unearthly glow as she

picks her way up the Sizemore's gravel drive.

Betty is catatonic, staring at the frozen image of David

Ravell on her TV.  Downstairs, Sue Ann comes in.

A terrified SCREAM as the cake lands unceremoniously on the

entryway.

ON BETTY

As she hits 'Play':

Roy enters the foyer and looks around, carrying a pad and pen

in hand.  He hears VOICES from the kitchen, sees FLASHBULBS

going off.  He sneaks down the hall when A VOICE stops him.

The deputy nods him through and Roy moves off toward the

sewing room where he has spotted Betty.

Betty is packing an overnight bag on her bed when Roy enters

and quietly closes the door behind him.  She is working with

a purpose, almost like a different person from the woman we

first met.  Still bright and cheerful, but with a willful

glint in her eye.  Determined.

Betty starts whipping a T-shirt into place but stops

abruptly. She turns curiously to Roy.

Sheriff Ballard enters the house, surveys the scene of the

crime where one deputy wipes blood off his boot with a paper

towel, and erupts when he sees Roy.

He motions to a female officer.

She leads Betty out the kitchen door.

As Ballard leads Roy into the next room...

Ballard drags Roy into the living room, where he sees Del.

He has been turned upright and is being carefully examined.

Roy runs into the kitchen, covering his mouth.

Ballard and his cronies delight in watching Roy struggle with

the dry heaves. Roy runs to the kitchen sink, almost loses

it, then wipes his mouth with a paper towel.

Roy sees Del's scalp in the garbage can as he goes to drop

his crumpled towel inside.

Every car on the lot has its trunk open and spare tire on the

ground behind it.  Charlie and Wesley are at the last car.

Wesley is stung.  Charlie slams the last trunk in disgust.

The rest remain where they are; open.

Betty is questioned in a holding room by a POLICE OFFICER and

a DOCTOR.  Ballard and Roy watch through a window.

Ballard looks both ways to make sure he won't be overheard.

The doctor comes out of the holding room.

He spins Roy around and marches him toward the door, one arm

bent behind his back.

Ballard pushes Roy out the door. As he returns, Roy reappears

behind him, leaning in to listen. Ballard doesn't see him.

Ballard nods, sure he's got a clue here. He looks in at Betty

again, just as she begins repacking her travel bag.  He

frowns at this, his suspicions fueled all the more.

A police car pulls up to Sue Ann's house.  Betty gets out,

carrying her overnight bag.  Sue Ann appears, embraces her

and leads her inside.

Betty lies down in a bright red race car bed.  Sue Ann tucks

her in and turns out the light.

After a beat...

Sue Ann looks down at her friend, troubled.  She strokes

Betty's hair gently and kisses her.  After she leaves, Betty

lies awake, staring at the ceiling.  A mobile dangles

overhead.

LATER

The Mickey Mouse clock on the wall reads 3:30.  Beneath it,

Betty is sitting up in bed, wide awake.

Betty comes down the stairs without a sound. She finds a pen

and paper near the phone and writes a note.

INSERT:            Dear Del:

She takes off her wedding band and puts it on the table.

Betty raises the garage door, tosses her overnight bag and

birthday money envelope into the LeSabre, and gets in.

She drives through Fair Oaks, past the town limits.  She

keeps on driving until her car recedes into the moonlit

prairie horizon.

She comes to a sudden halt in front of the "You are Leaving

Kansas" billboard.  She stares hard at it through the

windshield.  Suddenly, she hits the gas and bolts off along

the Oklahoma blacktop.  She never looks back.

Betty yawns, looks at her watch and increases her speed.

When she sees a sign for a MOTEL ahead, she pulls off the

highway.

She parks at a truck stop/restaurant/motel complex, hops out

and runs to the motel office window.

Betty enters her room, immediately turns on the TV, and plops

down on the bed.

A crowded truck stop in the Texas flatlands.  THREE TRUCK

DRIVERS in jeans, flannel shirts and denim jackets walk

across the parking lot.

One is an old, grizzled veteran with a salt-and-pepper

stubble and a greasy CAT cap on his head.  It's CHARLIE.

Next to him is DUANE, a burly young driver in fancy cowboy

boots.  Flanking Duane is WESLEY.

They reach Duane's truck, an empty car-carrier with Michigan

plates, and climb up into the cab.

Two Confederate flags criss-cross over Duane's CB unit.  On

the dashboard is a Rebel flag pin, a bumper sticker that says

"The South Will Rise Again" and a dozen country music tapes.

Duane gets in the sleeper cab, where stacks of porno tapes

and magazines reach the ceiling.  Wesley takes the driver's

seat, Charlie, the passenger seat.

Duane passes two videos to Wesley.

Charlie smiles.  Duane stops digging through the videotapes.

Chloe is curled up on her white leather sofa, cowering as

Lonnie hovers over her accusingly.

The camera holds on her face for a melodramatic beat ...

Chloe's trapped, and she knows it.

PULL BACK to reveal Betty lying on the bed in her motel room,

out cold.

The flag poles over the CB unit are bare. Duane is in the

sleeper cab, his forearms bound to his thighs with duct tape.

A telltale piece of Confederate red fabric hangs out of his

mouth.  There is a purplish bruise on his forehead.  He's

quiet, but glowering at his captors.

Duane nods.

Duane narrows his eyes in disbelief.

Duane smiles mockingly.

Charlie reaches up above the visor and pulls down a rumpled

manifest.  He leafs through it.

Duane shrugs his shoulders.

Duane shakes his head.  Charlie sighs, resigned.

Duane nods emphatically.  Wesley pulls the Confederate flags

out of his mouth.

He spits in Wesley's face.  Charlie has to restrain Wesley.

Charlie climbs down from the big rig and heads across the

parking lot. The Town Car is parked near the adjacent motel,

just a few spaces away from Betty's LeSabre.

With a furious calm Wesley wipes his face, then takes out a

can of lighter fluid, sets it on the dash and looks at Duane.

Charlie pulls the Town Car alongside Duane's rig and drums

the steering wheel impatiently.  It begins to rain.  There

are flashes of LIGHTNING in the distance.

A FLASH OF ORANGE FLAME ignites inside Duane's cab.  Charlie

sighs.  Finally, THREE DULL THUDS reverberate from inside.

Wesley climbs down clutching a videotape and gets in the car.

As they drive away FLAMES are beginning to dance inside the

cab.

The FLICKERING LIGHT of the TV screen is the only light.

Betty lies asleep on the bed.  The NEWS comes on and she

starts to stir as ...

Betty sits up.  On the TV screen is a shot of Del as Julius

Caesar from one of his commercials.

She blinks at the screen, confused, as the next story comes

on. Betty reaches for the phone.

Ballard is doing paperwork. Roy is asleep on a nearby bench.

A DEPUTY picks up a ringing phone and hands it to Ballard.

She hangs up. HEADLIGHTS sweep across the curtains, startling

her.

Betty crosses the border from Texas into New Mexico.  She

grips the wheel intently, driving for all she's worth.

Betty's blue Corsica sits surrounded by yellow police tape.

Half a dozen COPS mill around.  To one side are several

REPORTERS and PHOTOGRAPHERS, Roy included.  A FEW RESIDENTS

mill around in the background.

A stack of pictures of Betty sit on a makeshift table.

CLOSE SHOT of a headline in the Wichita Eagle:  "EYE WITNESS

TO BRUTAL MURDER MISSING" over a picture of Betty. Charlie is

one of MANY CUSTOMERS reading a copy. Wesley is plowing

through a stack of pancakes.

Charlie turns the page for emphasis and studies Betty's

features.

Wesley happily adds three strips of bacon brought by A

WAITRESS, who wears a button with the word "Missing" over

Betty's face.

Wesley finally looks up, directly at the picture of Betty.

Wesley nods, his mouth stuffed with food.

They sit for a moment in silence.  Wesley swallowing without

chewing and Charlie studying Betty's photo.

Sue Ann opens her front door to find Wesley standing before

her.  It's a new Wesley:  glasses, conservative suit, and a

convincingly humble manner.

Wesley is hit by a flying action figure.  He doesn't flinch.

Kids run by.

Wesley's eyes light up.  He can't help himself.

Sue Ann holds the door open, smiling, and Wesley enters.

Charlie nurses a cup of coffee at the counter while talking

to Darlene.  His Federal Marshall's badge rests on the

counter.  Shehands him two photos of Betty taken at her

birthday celebration. In one she's holding the cardboard

David Ravell.  The other, a closeup shot.

Darlene tries to smile and returns to the kitchen.  Charlie

studies the snapshots, comparing them.

Wesley is in bed on top of Joyce, humping her slowly.

Joyce GIGGLES as Wesley stops moving.

With her knees, Joyce prods him into humping her again.

Joyce reaches for a cigarette on the nightstand and takes a

deep drag. Wesley closes his eyes and turns away, offended.

Betty drives along a lonely stretch of highway that slowly

reveals a desert town in the distance.

Big ol' place.  Lots of wood and red leather.  Betty rushes

in as the clock on the wall reads 2:58.  The Town Drunk,

MERLE, is alone at the bar watching "Bass Masters" on a huge

TV screen.  In front of him is a remote control.  A FEW

OTHERS at tables.

Betty sidles up to the bar and sits down.  She looks at

Merle, at the clock, at the remote.

He BURPS, then finally looks at her with bleary eyes.

He ignores her.  Betty puts her wallet on the bar.

Merle SLAMS his hand down on the bar, scaring her.

It's 3:01. ELLEN DRABER, 40's, appears behind the bar, looks

at the clock and takes the remote from Merle.  She changes

the channel to "A Reason to Love" as the opening titles end.

Betty can't believe it. Merle smiles at her wickedly.

MERLE grunts in reply.  Ellen turns back to Betty.

Chloe paces in front of her white sofa, a matching white

telephone in her hand.  She looks worried.

We hear the BEEP TONE of an answering machine.

She hangs up.  The camera stays on her for a melodramatic

beat of introspection as we GO TO COMMERCIAL.

Ellen swings a phone up onto the bar.

Betty dials ...

Sue Ann is in her kitchen, ignoring the pleas of all three

children.

"A REASON TO LOVE" comes back on the TV.

Betty hangs up.

David is at a bar staring into his drink. Lonnie is with him.

There are two empty beer bottles in front of Betty. The THEME

MUSIC and CLOSING CREDITS of "A Reason to Love" are playing.

Betty pushes the phone back across the bar.

Ellen rinses a few glasses as she talks to Betty.

Betty leans across the bar conspiratorially.  She looks at

Merle to make sure he won't hear her.

Ellen looks at Betty.

Ellen whistles, wipes the bar down to buy a few seconds.

Merle looks over at Betty, then catches Ellen's eye.

Ellen walks to the end of the bar and starts rinsing glasses.

After a beat, Betty gets up and moves down close to her.

Ellen looks into Betty's eyes - sees the innocence, the hope

and enthusiasm - and has to look away. Betty takes it as her

cue to leave. She smiles, puts two dollars on the bar near

the phone and leaves.  Ellen stands perfectly still, watching

the door.

Betty approaches the GRAND CANYON, driving slowly along the

South Rim, searching for a specific spot.  Finally, she pulls

over abruptly. This is it. We can tell by the joy in her

expression.

Betty walks to the rail and gazes out at the canyon. Turning

her head slowly, as if expecting it, she sees DAVID RAVELL

leaning on the rail about twenty feet away, clutching a

bouquet of roses.

Betty starts toward him... he starts toward her... A magic

moment... Shattered when a black sedan appears, inching its

way along. She freezes. David vanishes, and ...

An ELDERLY MAN helps his wife out of the car and snaps her

picture in front of the canyon.  Betty moves away.

Charlie and Wesley drive across Kansas farm country.

The CAR PHONE RINGS.  Charlie answers.

He hangs up.

Charlie pulls out the close-up photo and studies it.

Roy approaches his fish tank cautiously.  He leans down and

looks at the piranha as a TV commercial ends and "A Reason to

Love" comes on.

He then returns to his computer, struggling to find the right

words and to type them with only one hand.  He types a

little, stares at the screen, then deletes an entire sentence

one character at a time, hammering on the 'Delete' key.  He

glances up at the television as the words 'Chloe' and

'Lonnie' are repeated.

Roy and Sue Ann go straight to Ballard's office, where they

find him at his desk eating lunch out of tupperware

containers.  He wears a napkin tucked into his shirt-top.

She tosses a copy of "Soap Opera Digest" on the desk. Ballard

ignores it and keeps eating.

The Lincoln pulls into the dusty, overgrown driveway and

front yard of a derelict farm.

The remains of pie and coffee on the table, Charlie and

Wesley kick back with JERROLD BLAINE and his wife ELIZABETH,

both in their 80's.  Photos of Betty at various ages lie

scattered in front of them.

Charlie holds up a picture of a young Betty in ballerina

costume posing at the barre.  He studies it intently.

Charlie admires a photo of Betty, around 18 years old.  He

continues to rummage through a box of collectibles, pocketing

a small child's diary when it is convenient.

AFTERNOON

Betty drives through Boyle Heights - East L.A., holding a map

and checking street signs.  She is wearing a brand new

Nurse's uniform.  Up ahead, she sees the hillside complex of

L.A. County/USC Hospital.  Hurriedly, she pulls over and

checks herself in the visor mirror.  She is underwhelmed.

The CHIEF NURSE, a large, dynamic woman in her 50's, faces

Betty across her desk.

The Chief Nurse looks at Betty for a moment, then stands

abruptly, signaling the end of the interview.

On her way down the hall Betty passes a patient's room when

the sound of A PERSON MOANING stops her.  She can't help but

go inside.  A TV plays commercials.

AN OLDER WOMAN lies in bed, alone and staring at the ceiling.

Betty looks around and notices several arrangements of

flowers on a deserted nightstand.  She brings them over to

the older woman's bedside, positions them, then gently

strokes her head.

The woman's eyes flutter.  She is disoriented at first, then

calms as she adjusts to the comforting sight of Betty.  Betty

takes her hand.

The woman smiles serenely at this and begins to drift off.

Betty checks her monitors as the opening credits of "A Reason

to Love" begin to play.

She glances up at the doorway at the same moment and sees Dr.

David Ravell standing at the entrance.  He checks the chart

on the door, smiles warmly at Betty and then moves off.  In a

flash, Betty is up and after him.

The THEME MUSIC is her private soundtrack as she checks out

every man in surgical scrubs, looking for David Ravell.

Then... She sees him.  In all his glory at the end of a

corridor walking away from her.  Betty gives chase.  She

gains steadily on him, her heart racing.  As they near

Emergency the NOISE LEVEL picks up.

He stops at the nurses' station.  Betty closes the gap.  She

starts to run.

He turns to face her ... It's not David Ravell.

The man shakes his head.  Betty keeps going, looking around:

it's incredible - the size, the activity, the intensity.

DOZENS OF PATIENTS lie on gurneys awaiting treatment in a

holding area.  It's still more intense at the entrance:

VOICES talking back and forth urgently, POLICE OFFICERS,

CIVILIANS, DOCTORS AND NURSES converging.

FIVE AMBULANCES unload patients at the same time.  At that

moment a group of TWENTY JAPANESE HOSPITAL ADMINISTRATORS

reaches the E.R. portion of their tour.

A WHITE MERCEDES tears up the ramp and SCREECHES to a stop.

A YOUNG MAN in gang colors is pushed out, bleeding heavily.

A DOCTOR runs at the Mercedes to head it off, yelling

indignantly.  The car plows right into him and takes off.

Another ambulance crests the ramp, lights flashing.  The

Mercedes SLAMS into it head-on.  NURSES AND DOCTORS run into

the parking lot. A GANGBANGER gets out of the Mercedes, dazed

and wobbly.  He pulls a pistol.  Everyone dives for cover.

The Mercedes driver is unconscious. The driver of the smashed

up ambulance is slumped over the wheel.  The rear doors fly

open, and a young Hispanic woman, ROSA HERRERA, leaps out.

Doctors and nurses work on patients and try to get to the

injured doctor, but the kid with the gun keeps them away.

SECURITY GUARDS draw their guns and scream at him to drop it.

The loading area is jammed with panicked people.  Doctors and

nurses creep out of the hospital on all fours, trying to stay

low.  No one is getting to Rosa, whose frantic eyes find

Betty.  They look right at each other.

Betty walks toward her calmly, indifferent to the danger as

Rosa pulls the gurney out of the ambulance herself.  A

PARAMEDIC lies unconscious inside.

On the gurney is a YOUNG MAN with a chest wound, nearly dead

from blood loss.  A DOCTOR appears and quickly examines him

while keeping one eye on the gunman.  He looks up at Betty.

The doctor takes off.  Rosa looks at Betty, crying.

Betty hesitates, then checks his pulse - he has none.  She

peels back the bandages over a huge chest wound.

Betty looks at Rosa again; looks around for help - there's no

one.  She plunges her fingers into the wound.

She keeps working on him.  We hear a GUNSHOT, and the kid

with the pistol falls to the pavement.  The loading area

immediately fills with DOCTORS, NURSES and COPS.

Rosa is shocked into motion. Together they wheel Danny toward

the entrance.  A DOCTOR and TWO NURSES come out to take over.

Betty, her white uniform now covered in blood, steps aside.

The DOCTOR tries to calm Rosa and keep her from entering the

treatment area.

They exit together as AN ADMINISTRATOR and several Japanese

officials approach.  The Chief Nurse hovers nearby.

SEVERAL LOW LIFES are hanging out in the lobby.  When Betty

comes in with a bag of groceries they look up, ready to

hassle her as she approaches the DESK CLERK.

She puts the bag on the counter, revealing that the front of

her white uniform is covered with blood.  She smiles at the

low lifes, stopping them in their tracks.

The Town Car's looking a little muddy around the rims.

Charlie and Wesley look tired as they wait in a seedy motel

room.  Charlie sits near a window, reading diary entries

aloud.  Wesley kicks back on the bed, fast-forwarding through

"Genghis Kunt" and talking back to the screen.

Wesley rolls his eyes and turns up the volume.  Finally a car

pulls up outside and Charlie snaps the book closed.  He makes

a quick attempt to arrange himself and motions to Wesley, who

turns off the tape.

A WOMAN with greasy blonde hair and skinny legs shown off by

a short skirt comes in with another MAN.  Charlie looks her

over disgustedly as his face falls.

The man looks at Charlie, then at Wesley, who shrugs in reply

as he steers them out the door.

The Chief Nurse sits behind her desk.  Betty faces her like a

student in the principal's office, now dressed in her white

waitress uniform.  She hopes no one notices.

The Chief Nurse gets up, and Betty follows suit.

Danny Herrera is in bed unconscious.  Rosa and her MOTHER are

keeping vigil when Betty enters. Rosa jumps to her feet.

Rosa hugs her and tells her mother in Spanish who Betty is.

Sra. Herrera smiles at Betty and starts to cry.  As she steps

forward, Rosa stands aside. The short, stocky woman envelops

Betty in a bearhug.

Sra. Herrera kisses Betty's hands and smiles through her

tears.  Then she motions to Rosa to take her place as she

goes to Danny's bedside. Betty picks up Danny's chart and

reads it.

THE ICU NURSE enters and adjusts the bank of machines

feeding, medicating and monitoring Danny. Betty watches with

interest.

Betty looks at Sra. Herrera curiously.

Rosa follows Betty out the door.

Betty and Rosa make their way up the stairs of a Silverlake

apartment house.

At the sound of SCREECHING TIRES they both look down as a

black Lincoln Town Car drives by.  Betty shudders.

She nods. Rosa continues to talk as they climb the many

stairs that lead to her door.

The place is neat.  As well furnished as a legal assistant's

salary will allow.  The living room is dominated by a large

glass tank filled with tropical fish.  Betty checks out the

space.

Betty smiles, a little embarrassed.

The black Lincoln Town Car is parked on a lonely stretch of

prairie highway.  Wesley sits in the passenger seat with the

door open. The RADIO is on. Charlie is on his cell phone

nearby.

He hangs up and looks out at the horizon, where huge black

storm clouds are gathering.  Then he walks slowly to the hood

of the car, staring at the ground in front of his feet.

Charlie rests his hands gently on the hood, as if considering

buying the car.  Wesley's MUSIC BANGS from the radio.

Charlie POUNDS on the hood of the car, scaring Wesley.

Wesley switches it off.  Charlie turns his back to the car

and addresses the angry clouds on the horizon.

The first raindrops begin to fall.

Wesley is in the car, but he's too scared to tell Charlie,

whose eyes are blazing.  Charlie silently walks around to the

driver's side and gets in.  He and Wesley stare at each other

over a photo of Betty, which is between them on the dash.

Charlie starts the engine and snatches up the picture.

He paws at the picture, imploringly.  He mutters to himself.

Wesley shakes his head and stares out.

Betty sits in an office along with a CLERK who taps away at a

computer keyboard while she studies a printed list of names.

He exits.

Rosa is on the phone at her desk in a law office.

Betty stands in a sexy pink dress, trying to decide if she

should put on a hospital gown and waits, tensing each time

she hears a voice from the hallway.  Finally, the DOORKNOB

BEGINS TO TURN.

A man's hand and the bottom of a white sleeve appear.  The

door swings open and a silver-haired, bespectacled DOCTOR in

his mid-60's enters.  The nametag on his white coat reads

"DAVID RAVELL, M.D."

Tasteful jazz, plenty of red leather booths.  Betty winds her

way through a PACKED CROWD, passing out small white cards.

Rosa spots her and goes over to meet her.

Rosa starts to lead her to the bar.

LATER

Rosa and Betty are sitting in a booth, talking over drinks.

The place is a little quieter now.

Rosa glances over to see Betty pass a business card to A

WAITER who checks on them.  When he is safely gone, Rosa

touches Betty on the sleeve.

The Town Car's parked on a barren stretch of desert highway,

white smoke billowing from the hood.  Half a mile ahead

Charlie and Wesley are walking in the sweltering heat.

They're in their shirtsleeves, drenched in sweat as the sun

beats down on them.

Wesley wipes the sweat from his eyes and trudges on in

silence. Charlie takes out a photo of Betty and speaks to it.

Wesley grabs the photo, tears it in half and tosses it. Then

he starts walking. Charlie is stunned for a moment, but

recovers quickly. He finds the pieces and stuffs them in his

pocket, then catches up to Wesley.

A beat... they walk for a moment.

This is too much.  Wesley explodes.

The Lincoln Town Car is raised up high on the hydraulic jack.

Wesley is at a pay phone out front.

He hangs up and goes into the garage, where he addresses the

Town Car above him.

No answer.

ON CHARLIE

Lying across the front seat taping the reassembled photo of

Betty to the dash.  Charlie's beginning to come apart.  His

hair is uncombed and his clothes are wrinkled.  His eyes have

a thousand-yard stare.

Charlie pulls himself up on the door and looks down.

Wesley rolls his eyes, then goes straight to the levers

controlling the hydraulic jack.

MERCEDES LOPEZ, early 40's, impeccably dressed, enters her

office loaded down with a bulging briefcase and a stack of

files under her arms.

(The entire scene is in Spanish.)

Rosa enters, tosses her purse on the table and goes straight

to the VCR.  Written in magic marker on a video is "A Reason

to Love, Apr. 23."  The tape Sue Ann gave to Betty.

She pops it in and turns it on. The OPENING TITLES start ...

The characters appear ... one is an impossibly handsome man

over the title "DOCTOR DAVID RAVELL."

Betty working at a desk in the pharmacy.  The same clerk as

before busies himself at another counter.  Rosa appears at

the glass partition and raps urgently on it.

A BEAT.  Rosa SLAMS the videotape down on the counter.

Rosa stands over Betty, fuming.

Rosa SCREAMS and smacks her hand on the glass as Betty

watches.  SEVERAL PEOPLE in a nearby lounge look up.  Rosa

stares at them until they look away.

Betty tries to return to her work but Rosa confronts her

loudly.  The nearby VISITORS and STAFF pretend to be busy.

ON BETTY

fuming in her humiliation.  After a moment, Rosa reappears at

the window.

Roy and Joyce approach the door to the trailer/office.  She

takes out her key, then stops. It's been padlocked and barred

with yellow police tape, as is the whole lot.  Roy pulls hard

on the lock, then starts looking around.

Roy works on opening a side window.

Roy forces the glass open and starts to squirm through the

window as Joyce watches.

The color drains from Joyce's face.

Joyce begins to sob at the side of the trailer as Roy

shimmies through the window frame.

Suddenly, Ballard is there, weapon cocked and placed roughly

into Roy's privates.  Joyce backs away.

Roy is in the rear of the car, handcuffed to the screen

dividing the front seat from the back. Ballard is driving.

A moment of silence as they drive.

He grins at Roy in the rearview mirror.

Mercedes Lopez arrives at the office and stops at Rosa's

desk.

(The entire scene is in Spanish)

Mercedes hands her two tickets to a benefit.

Betty's lying on her bed reading "Modern Nurse".  The L.A.

Times Classifieds are open on the bed.  Rosa looks in.

Betty nods in agreement.

Rosa smiles and starts looking at the tickets in her hand.

Rosa exits for a moment, then reappears in the doorway.

The car is covered in dust and mud from the road. It's worse

inside: food wrappers, empty bottles, pieces of clothing,

filthy windows.  They've been living in it.

Wesley's driving now. Charlie's almost unrecognizable: a six

day beard, uncombed greasy hair, bloodshot eyes, rumpled

clothes and an exhausted, faraway look.  The photo of Betty

faces him, taped to the glove box.  He is reading from the

diary, which he clutches like the Bible.

They roar along a desert highway, passing a sign that says

"Grand Canyon, This Exit.  74 Miles."  Charlie looks up,

marking his place.

Charlie turns to a passage and reads aloud.

Wesley drives on stoically.  The Exit comes and goes.

Charlie stares at him, hate rising from just below the

surface.  He draws a nickel-plated pistol and points it at

Wesley's head.  Wesley looks at it and keeps on driving.

Charlie knows this isn't the way to handle it.  He lowers the

pistol.

He puts the pistol in his mouth and cocks it.  Wesley looks

over, not so sure this time.

LONG SHOT of the black Town Car as the turn signal comes on,

and it eases onto a lonely dirt road.  Their headlights pick

out a sign that says: "Grand Canyon Fire Trail.  Forestry

Personnel Only."

Rosa and Betty approach the hotel entrance.  Ahead of them a

black Lincoln Town Car pulls up. Headlights glint on the

chrome, hitting Betty in the eye. She freezes, and Rosa bumps

into her.

Betty stares at the car, unable to remember what it should

mean.  Then a MAN in a tuxedo gets out.  Betty moves on.

A sign on an easel reads "Save the Children."  Betty and Rosa

present their tickets at the door to a ballroom.

Several times there is a stir near the entrance and a

scattering of flashbulbs.  Rosa scans the crowd.

Rosa keeps looking.  Finally, GEORGE McCORD - the actor who

plays DAVID RAVELL - enters.

He comes in with LYLA BRANCH, late 40's, and TWO OTHER MEN.

Several women approach George, some starry-eyed, for quick,

polite greetings.  He's doing his job of being a soap star.

Rosa waits for an opening, then puts her hands on Betty's

shoulders and points her at George.

Betty's jaw drops.  She freezes.

Rosa prods her, then Betty makes her way unsteadily toward

George.  When she's a few feet away he looks up.

He can't help but notice her - she's beautiful.  She's also

looking right into his eyes.  The conversation stops as he

does a double take in Betty's direction.

His friends watch as George studies her face.

George's friends look at each other.  A few heads turn.

George sighs with relief.  His friends smile.  The tension

evaporates.  They can handle a fanatical fan.

Betty looks at her.  So does George.

They shake hands.  ACROSS THE ROOM Rosa watches expectantly.

The friends laugh.  Rosa watches, confused.  So is Betty.

George likes the challenge. This party isn't so boring after

all.

His friends snicker.  Rosa stares.  Betty is oblivious to

everything but George.

She's ready to cry.  Which only inspires him all the more.

Betty wipes her tears away as they flow freely now.  George

doesn't like seeing her cry; he tries to say something but

his friends interrupt.

George hesitates; Lyla sees it.

Rosa watches, stunned, as Betty waves to her as she leaves

arm-in-arm with the man of her dreams.

The Town Car is parked near one of the viewing stops at the

rim.  Charlie stands in the darkness, but Wesley stays in the

car.

Charlie walks toward the canyon rim.  Suddenly, Betty appears

in the headlights standing at the rail - her back to Charlie -

with a bouquet of flowers.

ON WESLEY

Just as he closes his eyes to rest, the CAR PHONE RINGS.

ON CHARLIE

walking toward the rail.  As he nears her, they kiss.

Suddenly, REPEATED BLASTS from the car horn.

The image of Betty shudders, then blurs, then fades away

entirely.  Charlie rubs at his eyes tiredly, then slowly

trudges back toward the car.

Charlie returns and gets into the car.  Silence.  Wesley

stares at him.

Silence from Charlie.

A slow transformation comes over Charlie.

George, Betty, Lyla and the two friends are waiting outside

the hotel for their cars.

A black jeep 4x4 pulls up and ERIC AUGUSTINO, the actor who

plays LONNIE, gets out.

Before Eric can take another step Betty SLAPS him across the

face.  FLASHBULBS go off as PHOTOGRAPHERS capture the moment.

George hustles Betty to his car as photographers continue to

shoot.

The Lincoln Town Car rumbles into the dusty parking lot and

parks.

Wesley tears the photo of Betty from the glove box.

Charlie takes it back and gingerly secures the tape.

Merle is at the bar, drunk, the only customer on a slow

night.  Ellen drops two coasters in front of Charlie and

Wesley as they sit down.

Ellen looks dubiously at their unshaven faces and rumpled

clothes.

He slides the photo of Betty across the bar. Ellen's gaze

drops to the picture for a second, and Charlie sees what he

was looking for - a flicker of recognition.  He allows

himself a satisfied grin.

Wesley shows Ellen his badge as Merle checks out the photo.

Charlie continues to grin at Ellen ...

Charlie takes the photo and puts it back in his pocket.

Wesley steps behind Merle, takes a handful of his hair and

SLAMS his head into the popcorn machine on the bar.  Merle

staggers away, stunned. Wesley removes the tin popcorn scoop

from a nearby hook.

Ellen reaches for something under the bar, but Charlie's

faster.  He pins her arm with one hand.

They watch Wesley follow Merle at a slow walk around the pool

table, CLOBBERING him over the head about every five steps

with the popcorn scoop.

Merle wobbles with every shot, but won't go down.  They begin

a torturous second lap around the table, punctuated by the

CLANG of the scoop against Merle's head.

After one more CLANGING shot Merle staggers, then falls.

Wesley walks over to Charlie and Ellen, drawing his knife.

George and Betty are alone.

He pulls up in front of Rosa's apartment and parks.

Betty leans over and kisses George - so deeply that he's too

surprised to react. She pulls away abruptly and gets out.

Still surprised, and now a little intrigued, he watches her

go inside.

Betty comes in and pours a drink from the fridge. Rosa

appears in a nightshirt behind her, framed in the doorway.

Betty nods.

Rosa gets up and starts for her bedroom.  She stops.

Rosa goes into her bedroom and closes the door. Betty smiles

and nods, sipping at her drink as she retires to her room.

From his cell Roy Ostrey hears a door open, then the sound of

approaching footsteps.  It's Ballard.

Ballard doesn't say anything. He's very grim, subdued.  Roy

has never seen him like this.

Palatial, spartan.  Lyla is sitting in the inner court of her

Lloyd Wright home with George at one knee.

The black Lincoln Town car hurdles along the 10 Freeway, a

revitalized Charlie back at the wheel.  Surrounded by

traffic, the lights of the city in the distance, the two men

push on toward their new destination.

The black Lincoln Town Car - now washed and gleaming - is

parked in front of a modest motel.

Charlie looks like a new man - showered, clear-eyed and

energized - he's at the sink shaving as Wesley watches from

his seat on the edge of the bathtub.

Wesley stands up for emphasis, pointing a finger in Charlie's

personal space.  Charlie reacts at this, throwing his razor

into the sink and turning on Wesley.

It's a standoff.  Wesley blinks first.  He stalks off and out

of sight.  In a moment, he returns.

He turns and slams into the door frame.  He glares at

Charlie, then exits.  When the front door BANGS SHUT allows

himself to go back to his shaving.

Map in hand, Wesley stand near A GUARD and discreetly asks

questions.

Wesley looks around covertly, then produces a fifty.

Wesley smiles and wanders off, headed toward a series of

studio buildings in the distance.  The guard watches him go.

Charlie toys with matches from the Canyon Ranch Bar. Working

off a list of names and phone numbers from his Zaurus, he

makes calls from his room.

He hangs up.  Deletes another one off the list and looks out

the window.  Checks the now well-worn photo of Betty.  He's

starting to doubt himself.

Rosa stands in the doorway as Betty, wearing one of Rosa's

hotter outfits, puts on her makeup.

The DOORBELL RINGS.  Rosa goes to the front door and looks

through the peephole, then opens the door. George McCord,

flowers in hand, gives his best leading man smile.

Betty appears.

Modern glass and steel structure in the hills.  Austere.

Betty and George sit on the sofa with the lights low and SOFT

MUSIC playing.

He leans forward slowly to kiss her, but Betty pulls back.

George takes her face in his hands and looks at her.

She kisses him deeply, then allows herself to fall back on

the sofa, pulling George down on top of her and kissing him

passionately.

Wesley hands Charlie a newspaper folded open to the

Entertainment section, where there is a picture of Betty

slapping the actor Eric Augustino. George is in b.g.

Charlie studies the photo, troubled by something.

Charlie thinks about it, then reaches into his pocket and

takes out the photo of Betty with the cardboard David.  As he

compares the photos, Wesley peeks over his shoulder.

Charlie cuts Wesley short by grabbing his shirt and pulling

him close.

He carefully folds the paper, pockets the photo and

straightens his clothing.  He straps on his holster and

checks his weapon for emphasis.

Wesley gathering his gear through the open door.  Charlie

stands looking at himself in the mirror.  Touches at the gray

in his hair.  As an afterthought, he tosses on a splash of

cologne.

George leads Betty past several standing sets and into the

'operating room' as CREW MEMBERS buzz around. Betty walks

with her eyes closed and holding George's hand.

George stops and puts both hands over Betty's eyes. He looks

about expectantly and then uncovers them with a flourish.

Betty stares, slowly trying to take in her new surroundings.

It looks like Loma Vista, but something is different.  Odd.

Cameras, lights, etc. - all the apparatus of a TV show - are

in plain sight... And very disorienting.

He leads her to a taped mark on the floor as CAST MEMBERS

appear, including JASMINE and BLAKE DANIELS.

He kisses her cheek and walks off toward the waiting Lyla

before she can respond.

A STAGE MANAGER hands Betty a set of sides and an on-set

COSTUMER tries to fit her.

The other actors take their positions.  Lyla watches from

behind the cameras as David readies himself. Chloe enters the

set with Kleenex tucked into the neck of her costume.

She's sliding toward a complete meltdown.

George steps back behind the cameras.  Betty's still frozen

to her spot, overwhelmed.

Chloe and Blake run through their lines lifelessly, then stop

when they get to Betty's cue. Their faces loom around her

menacingly.  Staring.  The lights are impossibly bright.

People begin to shuffle and stare at one another. Lyla clears

her throat as George bounds on stage, still smiling.

She's freezing up.  George approaches her.

As he pulls away Betty grabs his arm.

Lyla approaches.

George steps back behind the cameras as if nothing's wrong.

Betty still hasn't moved.  She's shaking with fear.  The cast

and crew members find it hard to look at her.

George throws down his script and rushes up to Betty, who

reaches out to him.  He brushes her hands away.

Betty begins to cry.

Betty stands dead still as George continues to berate her.

ALL SOUND slowly starts to drop out, then comes back abruptly

with a RUSH.  Suddenly a light snaps on for her and she

stares at him.

George watches Betty walk off the set.  The cast and crew try

to pretend this scene didn't happen, except for Lyla, who

burns a hole into George's back.  Their eyes meet.

George McCord, wearing sunglasses and still angry, strides

into the lobby.  Charlie and Wesley stand quickly and take

out their badges as he approaches.

Wesley takes out the photo of Betty.

George turns to leave.

George stops.  Wesley is suddenly shy, hesitant.

George pulls away.  Wesley grabs his sleeve.

George wrenches free of Wesley's grip and takes off.

Wesley is furious.  He catches George in two strides, spins

him around and SLAPS him across the face.  George's glasses

go skittering across the floor.  PEOPLE stare.

Charlie pulls Wesley away.  George is frozen to the spot,

humiliated, a pink handprint emerging on his cheek.

Betty walks aimlessly along a busy street.  She moves without

direction, in a daze until a glint of bright light hits her,

causing her to turn.  She is staring at a black Lincoln

sitting in a car lot, sunlight dancing off its chrome.  She

shudders involuntarily at it.  Suddenly, she hears a familiar

voice.

It's Del.  He's in a pastel version of his usual shirt,

slacks, and tie.

Del looks up at the sun for a moment, shading his eye from

it.

He wipes the sweat from his brow.  Betty looks at his

handkerchief and sees that it's soaked in blood.  Then back

at his face, now obscured by blood pouring down from his

head.

She stares, horrified, and in that moment Del becomes... a

MAN, staring back at her as he wipes the sweat from his brow.

Betty backs away and melts into the flow of PEDESTRIANS.

Rosa comes home from work and tosses her purse and jacket on

the chair.  No Betty in her room.

She emerges from Rosa's bedroom with toiletries and moves to

an open suitcase in her room.  She barely acknowledges Rosa.

Rosa now notices Betty packing.

Rosa tries to stop Betty for a moment to talk.  Betty grabs a

pile of Rosa's clothes and heads for her room.

She tries to put Betty's suitcase away.

Rosa stops.

They stare at each other for a beat.

The doorbell rings.

Charlie watches Betty undress from a nearby fire escape.  He

stares at the object of his desperate search with relief and

some fascination.

Betty's movements are unhurried, mindless.  Charlie stares,

mesmerized, until she steps into the shower.

Wesley gently nudges open the trunk to Betty's LeSabre. The

cardboard cut-out of David Ravell pops out at him.

He breaks it over his knee and throws it in the gutter, then

quickly removes the wing nut holding the spare tire.  He

removes the tire, then raises the panel on the floor of the

trunk as Charlie joins him.

The bottom of the trunk is lined with brown paper-wrapped

bricks of cocaine.  Charlie stares at it, shaking his head.

Wesley looks at him.  He appreciates the compliment.

Charlie takes a long look at Wesley and smiles proudly.

Charlie walks off.  Wesley closes the trunk up and prepares

to follow him.

At the sound of the BUZZER Rosa goes to the door.  She looks

through the peephole and sees Charlie holding up a badge.

Charlie nods.  Rosa opens the door, and he enters with

Wesley.

Charlie and Wesley exchange a puzzled look.

Betty appears. She recognizes the men instantly and freezes.

Charlie's eyes wander over her... slowly.   Wesley notices.

Wesley produces a pistol, sitting Rosa forcibly on the sofa

and tapes her mouth and hands.  Charlie walks over to Betty.

He moves closer to her... almost whispers.  Wesley steps in

and quickly tapes her hands.  Charlie stops him.

A KNOCK at the door ruins Charlie's moment.

Wesley hustles Rosa out of the room.

Betty nods, scared, and looks through the peephole.  She

stares with disbelief at ROY OSTREY.  He KNOCKS again. She

opens the door a crack.

BALLARD shoves Roy aside; Charlie's getting edgy ...

Charlie has been listening quietly on the other side of the

door and finally snaps.

He flings the door open, sticks a pistol in Ballard's face

and yanks them both inside.

Charlie slams the door and frisks them, taking a gun and

handcuffs from Ballard.  Wesley returns with Rosa.

Wesley takes over.  He sits Rosa down on the sofa, then

pushes Betty down next to her and beckons to Roy.

He breaks Roy's nose with his pistol. Roy crumples to the

floor, holding his face. Betty starts to scream, but Charlie

puts his hand over her mouth.

Wesley tapes Roy's hands together, then beckons to Ballard.

Ballard drops to his knees in a prayer-like position near the

aquarium.

Wesley grabs his shirtfront and slams him to the floor, then

with a foot on his neck, he loops Ballard's arms around one

leg of the steel aquarium stand and handcuffs him.

Charlie does nothing but stare at Betty, his eyes locked with

hers.  Wesley sees it.

Charlie pulls her to her feet.

Charlie leads Betty out of the room.

Silence.  Then Charlie takes out a knife and cuts the tape

from Betty's wrists, touching her hair.  Gently.  He leaves

her standing in the corner while he sits on the edge of the

bed.

She does.  Charlie stares intently at her.

Charlie studies her, then sets his gun down on the bed.

Charlie slowly folds his knife and pockets it.

Wesley stands over Ballard, about to tape his mouth. Rosa and

Roy are sitting in chairs opposite them, their mouths and

wrists already taped.

Roy starts freaking out, trying to talk through the tape.

Roy is apoplectic...

Wesley tears his tape off.

Wesley immediately pulls his gun and points it at Roy's head.

Rosa STAMPS her feet, drawing Wesley's attention.  She tries

to talk through the duct tape; gestures for him to come to

her.

He yanks the tape off.  Rosa winces.

Betty is sitting on the bed.  Charlie leans against the wall,

facing her.  He has trouble starting this.

Betty looks curiously over at Charlie.

Betty is stunned.

Wesley is engrossed in watching "A Reason to Love."  Behind

him, Ballard quietly walks his feet up the wall until he's

completely upside down.  He rubs one foot against the other

until one pantleg is above his cowboy boot. Rosa and Roy

watch.

He finally lifts the boot off.  It falls soundlessly onto his

chest. A small pistol is revealed, holstered above his ankle.

He works the holster open using the edge of the fishtank.

Roy and Rosa COUGH LOUDLY at the same time to cover the

noise. Wesley glares at them.

Ballard gets the pistol free. But it falls into the fishtank.

The air goes out of Roy's sails. Ballard has fucked up again.

On screen, Chloe and Jasmine kiss and embrace.  Wesley reacts

as if he was slapped.

Wesley immediately runs the sequence back to view it again.

Ballard KICKS the wall of the fishtank with his cowboy boot.

Roy and Rosa cover the sound again with COUGHING. Wesley

pauses the T.V. and looks around.

Ballard KICKS at the tank again.  But he can't break the

glass. Roy can't take it any more. He launches himself at the

tank, grabs it by the rim and pulls it down on top of

himself.  A torrent of water, fish, plants and gravel pours

down upon him.

He leaps at Roy and starts kicking him savagely.  Rosa throws

herself onto Wesley's back, knocking him to the floor.

Ballard paws through the muck, scattering fish and gravel

everywhere.  He spots a glint of metal in the sand.

Wesley struggles out from under Rosa. Just as he gets free,

Ballard FIRES, hitting him TWICE into his chest. Wesley

stares in disbelief at the blood rushing out of him.  Then at

Ballard, as if trying to link the two.

He slumps to the floor and opens his mouth to scream ...

Charlie opens the bedroom door.

Charlie sees Wesley turn to him as Ballard FIRES again.

Wesley's face explodes.  The flying lead drives Charlie back

to the bedroom.

Crawling through the muck, Roy notices a fish flopping

helplessly on the carpet inches from his face.

He gently hands her the fish, then picks up Wesley's nearby

gun.  Rosa nods; she's amazed that he knew what it was.  She

looks at Roy in a slightly different way before crawling away

toward the kitchen.

Charlie FIRES back from the doorway.

Enraged, he empties his pistol at the living room.  Ballard

and Roy return fire, and Charlie ducks back in.

He opens the door, and a bullet slams into the doorjamb near

his head. He ducks back in.

Charlie sags against the wall, looking toward Betty.

Charlie fights back his grief.

Charlie can't handle the moment.  He breaks for the door,

and BLASTS away. This time he's nicked in the shoulder.  He

stumbles back, losing his balance.  His gun falls and slides

right into Betty's hand.  Equally surprised they stare at one

another.

Charlie slumps over in his defeat as Betty holds a shaky

pistol on him.

Rosa crawls to a flower vase and dumps a second koi into the

water inside.  Roy and Ballard crouch behind the open

archway, using the hanging beads as protection.

Ballard stares at him in disbelief, then back at the closed

bedroom door. Ballard starts off on his belly.

A LONG BEAT passes.  POLICE SIRENS wail in the distance.

Betty moves close to Charlie to look at his shoulder.  He

watches her intently.

The SIRENS are coming closer.  He waves her off.

Charlie fumbles in his pocket, then pulls out the photo of

Betty with the cardboard David Ravell.

Charlie's sinks slowly to the floor.

Charlie remains sitting pensively for a long beat.

Charlie reaches out slowly and takes the gun from Betty. She

doesn't fight him. He kisses her hand and steps into the

bathroom and closes the door.  A single GUNBLAST sends a

shiver through Betty.

TV Newscast

CLOSE SHOT of an ANCHORMAN.

The Anchorman continues as the CAMERA PULLS BACK to reveal

Lyla and George watching television in a plush living room.

Lyla shakes her head "no."

George and Betty sit across from one another in a booth.

Betty listens patiently.  Her former co-workers try to remain

busy but can't help gawking.

Darlene approaches, puts a piece of paper on the table.

She walks off.

George winces... accepts it.

Dr. David Ravell sits with Nurse Betty in a diner, catching a

bite to eat before going back on shift.  They smile at one

another over their meals.

Darlene, the other waitresses, the cooks and assorted

customers gather at the counter to watch Betty on television.

Sheriff Ballard beams from a nearby stool.

The kids are out of control, but Sue Ann's oblivious.  She

leaps from her chair.

Roy, Rosa, Danny and Sra. Herrera watch Betty lean across the

table, take David's face in her hands and move into a

romantic kiss.

On the sofa, Rosa takes Roy's hand in hers.

POSTSCRIPT:

Betty watches the pilgrims on their way to St. Peter's as she

sips a cup of coffee.  HER WAITER stands nearby with one eye

on a TV set that broadcasts "A Reason to Love" in Italian.

Without looking, the waiter approaches, tops off her cup and

moves back to watching the show.  Betty smiles knowingly at

this, takes a sip and settles back in her seat.  Slowly, the

world passes by.

POSTSCRIPT:

