George Clayton Johnson & Jack Golden Russell

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                 3.

Danny pulls on civilian clothes and there's not a bare

thread among them. He tugs his cuffs and smiles: The

old skin feels good. One last item to don: a silver

wedding band. Danny considers it. Will he put it on?

A sign reads: "NEW JERSEY STATE MINIMUM-SECURITY

CORRECTIONAL FACILITY." Someone has graffitied below it:

"If you were in prison, you'd be home now."

The great metal door opens, and Danny stands within its

frame, ready for release. (If it matters -- and if you

notice -- he's wearing his wedding ring.)

He hovers   there for a moment, on the precipice of

freedom.    The WIND WHISTLES a little on the other side of

the gate,   and the view ahead is not pleasant (New

Jersey):    Life is hard out there.

But Danny musters his courage, then takes his first step

into free America...

Any empty wintery boardwalk.

... And his wingtip lands squarely on plush red

carpeting.

As we PULL UP TO Danny's face and SPIN AROUND him, we

hear, then see the BUZZ of a CASINO floor: the HUM of

CONVERSATION, the DING-DING-DING and THUNK-THUNK-THUNK

from the SLOTS, the brisk WHIR of SHUFFLED CARDS.

And to Danny, it's a hearth and fire and a comfy chair

and a snifter of brandy. He's home.

ON DANNY'S WALLET

As he pulls out several crisp one hundreds, sets them on

green felt, then sees them replaced by a neat pile of

chips.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                 6.

Frank turns his eyes to heaven...

MOVING WITH Danny and Frank.

Frank smiles.    Danny has his answer.

Danny pulls a business card from his jacket, picks up the

phone again, and dials the card's number.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 5/31/01                                  12E.

They're sitting in a booth over coffee.

Danny stares at him:       next subject, please.

Danny puts down his coffee. And shakes his head. And

lifts three fingers: three casinos. Rusty must put down

his coffee, too.

It's after hours downtown.    Dark, empty, dead...

Lights out on the 40th. Engraved brass announces:     J.A.

KUEHN & ASSOCIATES, ARCHITECTS.

Two flashlight beams strafe wood-paneled, elegant

offices: Danny and Rusty on late-night reconnaissance.

As Danny prowls a cabinet full of blueprints, Rusty

passes the time switching papers from a desk's in box to

its out box.

At last, Danny finds the right set of blueprints and

drapes it across the desk; we, however, never see it.

A beat as Rusty scans the document, then another

underneath it.

Rusty's brow furrows just a little.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                    14.

No ding. The elevator just arrives. Its doors part to

reveal a SECURITY GUARD within, here to make his tour; a

large fellow, he has to duck to exit.

As Danny rolls up the set of blueprints, Rusty considers

the plan (which, in our absence, Danny has pitched him).

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                  15.

as he approaches Danny's and Rusty's voices...

Suddenly the Security Guard's flashlight beam hits them

square in the eyes. Danny and Rusty put their hands up

to block the light.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                16.

Danny withdraws his money clip, peels off a couple

hundreds, and buries them in the Security Guard's hand.

Danny and Rusty wait for an elevator. When its doors

open, Rusty stops Danny from boarding.

Rusty stares at him:    enough bullshitting around.

A beat.   Rusty smiles.

They step aboard the elevator.     As the door closes:

Danny and Rusty look at each other.

REUBEN TISHKOFF, the grimace of a man in mid-movement,

forever cemented on his face, scrutinizes his two lunch

guests (Danny and Rusty) at his poolside.

An Adlai Stevenson-lookalike approaches a lockbox carrier

from behind and snatches the box.

He takes almost three steps before five security men leap

at him and -- FREEZE FRAME on his wide-eyed expression of

horror...

RESUME ACTION: Adlai Stevenson gets a taste of what NFL

quarterbacks experience every Sunday... five fold.

A hippie races toward the electronic sliding doors,

clutching a tray full of chips, and as the doors begin to

part for him -- FREEZE FRAME: A billy club appears out

of nowhere...

RESUME ACTION: The billy club comes down -- whap! --

across the hippie's skull and it's Chicago '68 all over

again.

Tourists and valets scatter as a Euro-thief (pastel

T-shirt beneath a white linen suit) bursts from the

casino and takes five steps before -- FREEZE FRAME:

GLASS EXPLODES from three different doors behind him and

he arches his back in agony...

RESUME ACTION: BULLETS rip the man to shreds and he

collapses on Caesar's steps a bloody pulp.

Both Danny and Rusty look chastened.

They both rise to go.

Danny and Rusty begin to circle the pool to leave.

Tishkoff, of course, won't let them go that easily.

Danny stops, almost as if he's been waiting for this

question, which of course he has.

Tishkoff waves them back, sipping on his umbrellaed

cocktail.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                 21.

Danny and Rusty both smile; they've hooked their fish.

And so it begins...

Frank Catton coughs mightily into a handkerchief.   Across

a desk, his boss fills out paperwork.

Frank carries his bag toward the taxi bay. He stops to

light a cigarette, inhales with deep satisfaction before

a banner: "WELCOME TO LAS VEGAS."

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                               22.

CLOSE ON a souped-up tractor-wheeled monster truck, its

ENGINE ROARING before a starting line, itching to cross

it. Now take a step back...

That souped-up monster truck stands a foot-and-a-half off

the ground and sprouts an antenna from its back bumper.

It's a remote-controlled toy.

The ROARING ENGINE comes from the vehicle next to it: an

actual monster truck. Both vehicles peer down the track

at a finish line a hundred yards away. This is a race.

The drivers stare each other down: TURK (behind the

wheel of the truck) and VIRGIL (track-side, remote

control in hand) MALLOY. They're nice boys. Really.

Peckerwoods, sure, but nice.

Lights flash red-to-yellow-to-green and while the TRUCK

COATS RUBBER on the track, Virgil's toy zips to a lead.

It's looking to be an embarrassment for Turk until he

jerks his wheel a little and -- ka-thunk -- flattens his

brother's vehicle.

Virgil pouts as he plucks up the wreckage of his entry.

On a black and white monitor: Two mobsters, on a meet in

a public park, peer over their shoulders, making certain

no one is watching them. Little do they know...

... LIVINGSTON DELL, audio-visual junkie, and victim of a

continual flop sweat, crouches before their image,

masterfully controlling his surveillance camera with a

joystick in his left hand. He is flanked by FBI MEN.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                    23.

As a FBI Man reaches to adjust a monitor...

Livingston walks down the boardwalk. A rollerblader with a

dog on a leash approaches and Livingston gets caught

between the two. As he struggles to untangle himself from

the leash...

With a view of Livingston on the boardwalk...       Danny and

Rusty wait for him over espressos.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                            23A.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                               24.

the explosives expert. A pair of goggles over his eyes

reflects a match being struck, then touched to a fuse.

BANG! Wood shards and SPLINTERS of GLASS fly all around;

Basher merely ducks his head and whistles. As the dust

settles, three men move quickly past Basher and into

(what the settling fog now reveals to be) a dynamited

bank vault. ALARMS begin to sound: this is bad news.

The men exit through the front doors, their hands over

their heads, Basher trailing them. Policemen and SWAT

members encircle the group, weapons trained on them,

chock full of instructions.

Basher sits in the rear, handcuffed behind his back, feet

on the pavement. An explosives COP kneels in front of

him.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                    25.

The Cop turns; standing behind him, stone-faced, is

Rusty, in a dark suit and shades.

The Cop looks bewildered. Rusty steps forward, yanks

Basher onto his feet, spins him around. He moves his

hands up and down Basher's legs, around his waist, under

his arms.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                              26.

They're hurrying; ahead of them is a wall of squad cars,

a police cordon, and a crowd of onlookers.

And they both start running.

And behind them the SQUAD CAR ERUPTS with a BANG! A

collective SCREAM rises from the crowd, everyone ducks,

cops hit the ground and cover their heads. Rusty and

Basher move briskly past them, dodging their splayed legs

like tires on an obstacle course. By the time the

Explosives Cop thinks to look around for Basher, they've

both disappeared.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                              27.

The Chinese National Circus, currently on tour in the

Western United States. Trapeze artists, gymnastic teams,

and trampoline daredevils fly, somersault, spin, and

swing through the air.

A full house applauds every feat. Danny and Rusty sit in

the bleachers, surrounded by parents and kids munching on

spindles of cotton candy. Tough guys in toyland.

A funambulist (YEN) begins his high-wire act...

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                             28.

Halfway across the wire, the funambulist sits. And very

slowly, but without hesitation, he contorts himself into

a ball, never losing his balance. Even Danny is

impressed.

Danny and Rusty exit the circus tent, head for their car.

Rusty stops, stares at Danny, sighs.

SAUL BLOOM, 50s, befuddled, wearing a corduroy jacket

patched at the elbows and a duffer's hat, counts out

money through the window, lists his bets. He checks his

tickets, plunges them into his pants pocket, and moves

off...

Rusty appears in the f.g. behind a pillar, as dapper as

Saul is down-at-heel, watching him go. When Saul

disappears into the tunnel, he moves.

Saul sits on one of the long, general admission steps

under the box seats. He produces an orange from his

pocket, starts to peel it. A pair of well-shined shoes

appears behind him. Saul senses their presence, but

doesn't turn around.

For the first time, Saul cranes his neck and shoots a

look up at Rusty.

A waiter serves coffee to Rusty and Saul.

There's the BELL; the electronic rabbit is released and

the dogs break out of the gate. From this point on

Saul's eyes never leave the race.

They watch the race.

On the track: The dogs are now coming around the back

stretch, and the crowd on the bleachers rises, cheering.

Under the noise: Rusty leans in and whispers in Saul's

ear. Saul's eyes widen, then glaze over as all around

him people are standing and shouting.

Rusty places an envelope in Saul's lap, then gets up and

walks out as, on the track, the #4 dog crosses the finish

line... last by several lengths.

Saul considers his options. In one hand: a fan of

losing tickets. In the other (courtesy of Rusty): a

ticket to Las Vegas.

Danny and Rusty look weary from all this recruitment.   A

nearby TV with the sound off plays a promo for an

upcoming Tyson fight.

Native Chicagoans demonstrate their indigenous sixth

sense -- L-car balance -- as the TRAIN bends and SHAKES

at a corner.

One passenger in particular keeps his footing, a young

man in a frayed jacket: LINUS.

Two overgroomed STOCKBROKERS stand with their backs to

the young man, yammering about high interest yields, and

consequently they don't notice (and neither do we, not at

first) that Linus is slowly picking one of their pockets.

The thievery is glacier-paced: Linus, his face always

forward and inscrutable, gingerly raises one tail of his

target's Brooks Brothers jacket and then, with

incomparable dexterity, unbuttons his wallet pocket with

a flick of his thumb and forefinger.

From halfway down the train car, nothing appears amiss,

and no passenger looks the wiser. Or so it seems...

A copy of the Chicago Sun-Times, opened and upheld,

lowers just enough to allow its reader a peek at Linus.

It is Danny, smirk on his lips: He (and he alone) is

aware of the ongoing heist.

Back to Linus, his spoils (a Gucci wallet) now in sight,

but he waits for just the right moment, and then, when

the train hits another curve...

... he stumbles forward, his left hand finding support on

the Stockbroker's shoulder as his right relieves the man

of his wallet.

The Stockbroker resumes his yacketing, oblivious, as

Linus tucks his prize into his own jacket pocket, face

betraying nothing. Only Danny appreciates the artistry

performed here today. He folds the Sun-Times under his

arm as...

... The SUBWAY SQUEALS to a stop. Linus jumps out,

leaving his prey aboard, and a few moments later, Danny

steps off, too.

The hurly-burly of rush hour in Union Station.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                 33.

Commuters zig and zag, this way and that, all on furious

schedules, and Linus slips blithely through them, in no

hurry, a man who's pulled this job a thousand times

before.

He dodges and sidesteps crazed commuters, and except for

a brief brush with one well-dressed man (the Sun-Times

tucked under his arm), he escapes the station without

incident.

Linus exits, casually reaching into his jacket to count

his winnings. And his face falls.

All he finds where the stolen wallet once resided is a

calling card. On one side, in engraved printing:

"DANIEL OCEAN." On the flip side, in handwriting: "Nice

pull. Murphy's Bar, Rush & Division."

On a tabletop: the Gucci wallet beside a half-drunk

Guinness. Linus enters the front door, cases the joint,

spots the wallet on the table, and Danny behind it.

Linus balks, prideful, but sense finds a way, and he

sits.

Danny reaches into his jacket and sets a plane ticket on

the table. He keeps his hand over it.

Linus considers. He looks down at the ticket, then at

the wallet. It's one or the other.

A waitress passes, and Danny signals her for his bill.

When his attention returns to Linus, the wallet

remains... but the ticket beneath his hand is gone.

Linus is reading it.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                  35.

And our MAIN THEME KICKS IN as we...

The city looms out of the desert like an infernal

machine, lights flashing, skyline pulsing, a neon

fortress.

One thing in particular catches our eye: an enormous

billboard with an ad for the upcoming boxing match

between Mike Tyson and Lennox Lewis. Below it, a

promoter hands out fliers for strip joints and call

girls.

Frank Catton is already here, mixing a drink, when --

DING DONG -- the DOORBELL CHIMES. Tishkoff shuffles

toward the front (he's given the help the night off) and

opens his door to find...

... Livingston, Basher, Yen, the Malloys, Saul and Linus

crowding his doormat. A taxi-van pulls away behind them.

Along one wall, a buffet table has been set up, and while

Virgil and Turk pile shrimp onto plates, Saul pockets an

orange for later.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                  36.

At the wet bar, Basher mixes a drink for Livingston; on a

couch, Yen balances coffee-table ornaments into a

skyscraper, to Frank's astonishment. In a corner, off on

his own, Linus watches the company, his eyes narrowing,

wary. Until...

Danny stands at the top of the stairs leading into the

room, flanked by Rusty and Tishkoff. He starts down...

Linus trades nods around the room.

He turns and walks out of the living room, into another.

Rusty is close behind; he turns briefly, casts an eye

over the assembled and keeps going. The guys look each

other over, sizing things up.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                               37.

And he follows, along with Frank and Livingston. Then

Virgil, Turk and Yen. Then Saul. That leaves Linus,

watching the line of men disappear. He turns to find

Tishkoff by his side, staring at him.

A tournament-level pool table holds center stage here.

Atop its green felt sits a raised, elaborate miniature of

Terry Benedict's Las Vegas: three casinos and hotels

with the Strip running between them.

As the eleven surround the table and the model...

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                               38.

Danny removes the Strip from the model. Revealed beneath

is a complex substructure, featuring three tunnels, each

leading from a casino to a single freight-sized elevator

shaft which descends into an enormous vault.

Everyone takes a breath, awed.

Danny picks up a remote control and flips on a panel of

Tvs.

On the monitors: three montages of black-and-white

security tapes, starting within the three casinos' cages,

moving into the tunnels, then (as the TVs unite in their

images) pushing into the elevator and eventually the

vault.

As the group's glances shoot back and forth from the TV

to the corresponding section of the model, i.e. from a

POV of the tunnel to the miniature tunnel itself...

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                40.

Silence. For a moment, each man keeps his two dozen

questions or more to himself. At last, one speaks up...

The Amazing Yen.    In Cantonese.   Of course, no one

understands him.    Except Rusty.

Another silence. Either the guys are too dumbfounded by

that bilingual exchange or too numbed by the task ahead

of them to speak.

MOVING AROUND the table ON ten faces, as everyone does

precisely that, in their heads, except for Virgil who

does it on his fingers. He whistles.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                                41-43.

Everyone seems suitably impressed by their share.

Danny smiles, his broad, sure-of-himself grin, the one

Rusty couldn't deny earlier and these guys won't deny

now.

Saul looks panic-stricken; like that, his ulcer has

flared up, and he pops a Rolaid in his mouth.

MOVING WITH a cash cart as security guards push it past

tourists, past cocktail waitresses, past Linus sitting at

a blackjack table.

Two security TECHNICIANS on a smoke break grumble about

their sex lives. Across the room, Frank sits innocently

doing a crossword.

BETTER VIEW

REVEALS: On his crossword, Frank has scribbled a

transcript of the Technicians' conversation. As he

glances up at an electronic keycard clipped to one

Technician's belt...

... an identical keycard is swiped through a keypad, its

light flashing red to green, admitting a guard into an

"Employees Only" doorway.

The Malloys, who've shadowed the guard here, note a

sentry standing watch by the door as well as a security

camera embedded in the ceiling above: No one walks

through that portal unchecked.

Their job done, the Malloys start toward the casino's

exit... in different directions. They begin to argue:

The exit's that way -- no, it's that way.

With two dozen other tourists, Basher crosses the street

and when he meets a manhole cover he stops and,

extracting a small metal hook from his jacket, removes it

from its perch, so casual about the action that no

passerby looks twice at him.

Basher drops into the hole, pulling the cover over him,

as we PULL UP OVER the Bellagio and...

Dozens of monitors manned by dozens of watchers canvas

dozens of casino tables; only NASA's control rooms house

more technology.

Apart from the fray, another bank of monitors manned by

two watchers (let's call them, for no particular reason,

FAT and SLIM) oversee a different section of the casino:

the cage, its tunnels, the elevator, and the vault it

leads to; everything, in fact, which our team saw in the

game room.

SCHEMATICS OF BELLAGIO - NIGHT

A page of the set Danny and Rusty "borrowed" from Kuehn &

Associates. Danny and Livingston study it.

WIDER

Danny shakes his head:     no such luck.

Danny looks to Rusty who, behind them, tampers with

Livingston's audio-video setup: several portable

monitors, a laptop and modem, telephone headset, etc.

DANCE MUSIC overwhelms the SOUNDTRACK...

... as we join a lap dance already in progress. A

security Technician (one of the two Frank eavesdropped on

in the break room) shells out twenty bucks every three

minutes for a DANCER to grind her pelvis against his

chest...

... and while the Technician grins not-very-soberly and

ogles her perfect breasts and paws at her midriff, the

Dancer secretly removes the keycard from his belt.

She pouts, flirtingly, as she does for every idiot who

drops a line like that, then makes her way to...

... where Rusty waits for her, and when she slips him the

keycard, he slips her a c-note.

FOLLOWING a bunch of balloons -- all congratulating

"Happy Anniversary!" -- as a delivery boy carries them

through the casino, and just as he's passing an

"Employees Only" door (complete with sentry and embedded

ceiling camera)...

... he bumps into a TOURIST, and the balloons drift out

of his hand and into the camera...

As the balloons fill the frame of one monitor...

The SENTRY (#433) hears this and spots the balloons

covering the embedded camera and approaches the delivery

boy (who by freak accident happens to be Virgil

Malloy)...

... but Virgil's too busy picking a fight with the

Tourist (surprise, surprise: Turk Malloy) to listen.

And with the Sentry out of position...

... Livingston (dressed now in a technician's uniform,

don't worry about how he got it) goes quickly to the door

and swipes the newly-acquired keycard and when it flashes

red-to-green, he enters...

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 10/24/00                            48.

He's in. Livingston takes a moment, his brow perspiring

(he's in the lions' den now), then checks his palm:

drawn there in ballpoint is a diagram of the cage

corridors.

MONITOR NEXT TO BALLOON-CLOUDED ONE

Livingston appears and, as nonchalantly as he can, he

ambles down a hallway, then another, until he reaches...

... an unmarked door next to the entrance to the security

center. Livingston swipes his keycard to enter...

A giant walk-in closet/switchboard full of wires, plugs,

lights, etc. Livingston goes to work:

FLURRY OF SHOTS

He splices into all sorts of wires and lines and cables.

Meanwhile...

... Virgil and Turk argue, nose-to-nose, "accidentally"

blocking the Sentry from the balloons...

Livingston's work here is almost done: he clips a small

mechanism (known in his industry as a "spider" -- it's

small, black, antenna-less and hides in dark places) to a

main conduit, then verifies a tiny receiver he holds is

picking up the spider's feed.

One last click into place...

... causes a brief, unnoticed blip on Slim's monitors...

... and transmits all the views of the cages onto the

monitors upstairs. Danny and Rusty witness their

appearance.

Livingston steps outside. His job done, he exhales and

wipes the sweat from his brow and checks his palm for

directions and...

Whoops. His sweat just smeared the ballpoint. He's

flying blind. He looks left down a corridor, then right,

trying to remember which way he came from. No idea.

MOVING WITH Livingston as he tries to find his way out.

He takes a left...

Whoops again: here comes Fat, dead ahead.    Livingston

has no recourse but to march right by him.

Livingston continues on, and maybe for a second he thinks

he's in the clear, especially when he sees the exit

looming ahead, but then Fat turns behind him and hails

him back...

At last, the Sentry outmaneuvers Virgil and Turk and

grabs the balloons himself. Virgil quickly snatches them

back...

Livingston approaches the exit's keypad and swipes his

keycard: the light does not flash red-to-green.

Livingston looks: he swiped the wrong side of his

keycard. He tries again. Red flashes to green. He

pulls the door...

... but Fat blocks it.       Livingston peers up, certain he's

had it.

Danny and Rusty simultaneously lean forward.

Fat holds out Livingston's receiver and drops it in his

hand.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                  51.

And he's out.

Danny and Rusty exhale.

The gang hauls building materials -- lumber, tools,

paint, etc. -- and Yen hauls three times his share,

carrying objects on his head/shoulders/arms, a circus

act in a hardware store.

As Linus hauls in materials, Danny takes him aside.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                   52.

Outside a window: Turk and Virgil jump up and down on

opposite bumpers of a van, testing its durability.

Inside, Frank negotiates with BILLY TIM, a Cal-

Worthingtonesque redneck car dealer, who half-pays

attention to him, half-frets over the Malloys outside.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                 53.

Frank's not letting go of the man's hand, the object now

is to force Billy Tim into lowering his price just to get

Frank out of his office.

overseeing the construction, reviewing his list of tasks

on his fingers, suspecting he's missed one.

Danny's eyes flash from Tishkoff to Saul, behind him,

dressed in his usual frumpy attire: that's what he

missed.

A tailor fits Saul for the finest suits Tishkoff's money

can buy. As Saul smoothes out a coat sleeve...

Saul's not fooling anyone: he's scared, right down to

his Florsheims. Danny nods to the tailor: "Give us a

moment."

Saul turns away, and when he faces Danny again, his

entire aspect has changed: His features stone, his eyes

icicles.

They exchange a long, fierce glance; Saul's eyes never

waver.

Danny signals Tishkoff: let's pay, and Saul immediately

slumps into his old self. To a mirror, he practices...

Saul's dressed completely (and immaculately) now in

Armani, with his hair slicked back, a brief moustache on

his lip, and impenetrably dark glasses riding the bridge

of his nose. He continues to practice, his accent even

deeper now and specifying no geographic origin -- could

be Scottish, could be Israeli...

Danny passes him an envelope full of $100 bills.

Saul pats down his pockets for something he can't find...

The limo pulls to a stop, and outside there is a flurry

of FOOTSTEPS before Saul's door swings open, and Turk and

Virgil (both costumed as bodyguards) stand waiting for

him.

Saul, as Lyman Zerga, makes as low-profile an entrance

into the Bellagio as he can with bodyguards preceding and

trailing him. He approaches a V.I.P CONCIERGE...

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 1/8/01                                 57.

From a balcony, Benedict stands overlooking the casino

floor. His CASINO MANAGER approaches and they confer.

Benedict works the room. He speaks to a Japanese High

Roller in Japanese, to a Swiss in German, etc.

Indeed, as Benedict makes his exit, an assistant hands

him a black portfolio.

Rusty and Linus watch the entrance:    No one enters.

Around the corner comes Benedict, carrying his black

portfolio.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 3/30/01                                 58.

Rusty looks up as...

... a beautiful woman (the one Danny saw on Benedict's

arm in the New York Times photo) appears. Elegantly

dressed, a knockout, she moves very much in her own

private space. And Rusty's face just about drops at the

sight of her.

OCEAN'S 11 - Rev. 3/30/01                     58A.

