BLACK

We hear TRAFFIC, some STREET NOISES, then...

FADE IN: A MIAMI STREET - DAY

The financial district.  Lots of people in suits.  A shaky,

spasmodic ZOOM IN finds...

JACK FOLEY -- forty, big, focused expression -- as he rips a

tie from around his neck and throws it down in the gutter.  He

starts across the street, now peeling off his suitcoat and

dropping that, too, right there on the asphalt as we then...

WHIP PAN OVER TO REVEAL: A BANK ACROSS THE STREET

As Foley goes inside, we then...

CUT TO: A PRINTED BROCHURE THAT READS...

We then PULL BACK TO REVEAL that we're now...

INSIDE THE BANK

as Foley stands at a counter holding the above CREDIT APPLICATION

while he studies the bank layout.

Foley watches a MAN IN A SUIT, carrying an attache-case, enter

the bank and move through the gate into the fenced-off business

area at the front.  An EXECUTIVE rises from his desk, shakes

hands with the man and they both sit down.

Foley rosses the brochure in the trash, then crosses to a teller

window where a nameplate on the counter tells us the young woman

with the pile of dark hair smiling at him is LORETTA.

Foley takes out a ZIPPO LIGHTER and casually, yet expertly,

begins to fiddle with it as the teller looks across the bank.

Loretta goes stiff, swallows, stares back at Foley.

We hear a bit of thunder and Foley cuts a fast look out the

front door.  When he turns back, he sees that Loretta's having

some trouble fitting all the bills into the envelope.

Foley heads for the door.  He pauses by Mr. Guindon's desk,

looks back at Loretta.  Foley smiles at her, then turns to the

Man sitting with Mr. Guindon, indicates Loretta...

The man looks across the bank at Loretta.

Foley winks at Loretta and walks out.

EXT. BANK - SAME

As Foley comes out, he calmly walks to a Honda Civic and gets in.

INT. CAR - SAME

As Foley tries to start the car.  No go.  He tries again.

But the car won't start.  Foley bangs on the wheel...

Foley then stiffens as a cop sticks his gun through the open

window into Foley's ear...

Foley looks to the passenger window, where ANOTER COP, smiling,

now has his gun pointing at him.

And as Foley obliges, we then...

FADE TO WHITE.

We hear a MAN GRUNT.  Then see Foley in SLOW MOTION as he jumps

through frame, now we see a basketball come up in his hand as

we realize he's on his way to the rim when...

...ANOTHER GUY rams into him in mid-air, knocks him down.

EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

A BASKETBALL GAME in progress.  All of the men, Foley included,

are dressed in blue coveralls and white T-shirts.  The game is

rough.  Hair is pulled.  Eyes are poked.  Faces punched.

A title reads:

FLORIDA."

Foley is the oldest player here.  He's getting tired, starts to

lose his breath.  He finally walks off the court, breathing so

hard he can't even talk.  He simply motions to SOME YOUNG CONVICT

to come in and take his place.

Foley sits down on a bench, tries to catch his breath.  He looks

across the yard to where...

A GROUP OF ELDERLY INMATES

sitting around a wooden picnic table are playing cards.  All of

them are over sixty.  One of them, a one-legged guy on crutches

hops away from the table, spits out some tobacco as we...

INTERCUT THE OLD TIMERS WITH FOLEY WATCHING THEM:

As we see one old guy is making a picture frame out of old Pal

Mal and Lucky Strike packs.  Another tends to a tomato bush in

a tiny patch of garden near the wall.  Another one sits nearby

painting a picture of a man and a boy fishing from a rowboat.

Foley is about to get up off the bench when something catches

his eye.  He watches as...

TWO LATINO MEN

both little guys, jog past the game, slow to a walk, then stop

and begin stretching out.  One of them nods to Foley.  Foley

nods back, waits for the Latin guys to walk off, then walks

over to a guard, PUPKO ("PUP"), heavy-set, dumb as dirt.

Foley keeps his eyes fixed on the basketball game.

INT. MESS HALL - LUNCH

As Foley takes his tray up the centre aisle, he scans the sea

of white T-shirts until he sees the two little Latins sitting

at a table full of other little Latins.  CHINO -- fifties, in

shape -- shovels macaroni in his mouth.

Chino's "wife", LULU, nineteen, looks up from his own neat tray

of macaroni and jello and watches Foley walk past and sit down

with a bunch of bikers.

Foley watches as the guy across from Chino scrapes some macaroni

off his plate and on to Chino's and Chino wolfs that down, too.

EXT. MESS - DAY

Chino steps outside and lights a cigarette.  He puts an arm

around Lulu, starts to walk off...

Chino looks over, watches Foley approach, lets his arm slip

down so he can hook his thumb into Lulu's belt... the next

thing to having him on a leash.

Chino and Lulu exchange looks.

Foley smiles at Lulu, who glares back at him.

Chino looks towards the fence along the front of the yard.

Foley looks off towards the visitors' parking area, the fence

not twenty yards away.

CUT TO: A NOTEPAD

where we see someone has written "IT'S MAGIC!" then crossed out

the "IT'S" and replaced it with the word "LIKE".  We hear THE

PHONE RING AND...

REVEAL: INT. ADELE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Miami Beach Moderne.  ADELE -- mid-thirties, pretty, Foley's ex --

sits at her kitchen table writing on a pad.  She grabs the phone.

INT. PRISON HALLWAY - DAY

Foley on the phone...

INTERCUTTING FOLEY & ADELE:

INT. RESTAURANT - DAY

As MARSHALL SISCO -- fifty -- slides a small wrapped box across

a table...

...to where KAREN SISCO -- twenty-eight, black suit, long hair,

a knockout -- sits.  She picks up the box and shakes it.

Karen starts to carefully unwrap the present.  Marshall watches,

takes a sip of his drink, looks around the bar, sees how

everyone's looking at the two of them...

She pulls a gleaming automatic pistol from the box...

She leans across the table and kisses him.

She gets up, kisses him again.

INT. FOLEY'S CELL - BELLE GLADE - DAY

Foley comes in, lies down on the bunk.  He looks about the

cell.  All he's got to show for himself.  It's now quiet on

the cellblock.  Foley closes his eyes and we...

CUT TO: EXT. PRISON AUDITORIUM

A few hundred cons scream encouragement/insults as MAURICE

"SNOOPY" MILLER, a lanky, scary, mean-looking black man in boxing

trunks, hits a white guy with a ferocious hook.

Title reads:

And then...

AT THE BACK OF THE AUDITORIUM

Foley leans in a doorway watching with BUDDY BRAGG -- black,

Foley's age, shaved head.

The BELL SOUNDS and the white guy staggers to his corner, as

does Maurice.  GLENN MICHAELS -- surfer look, dark shades --

counts cash in Maurice's corner, whispers something into the

fighter's ear.

Foley watches a MAN -- fifties, out of place, not as hard-looking

as those around him.  The guy looks nervous, can feel the other

cons' eyes on him as he tries to find a seat.

The BELL SOUNDS and the white boxer staggers to his feet.

Maurice steps in and resumes the bloody pummelling.  Foley turns

and watches the fight now...

Buddy shakes his head.  Maurice dances around the other guy

now.  Teases him.

The white guy throws a tired, loping roundhouse that barely

glances off Maurice's jaw.  Sure enough, Maurice makes a big

show out of snapping his head back, staggering, before he finally

goes down.

Foley watches the new inmate as fights erupt all around him

and, anxious now, he tries to get out of there.

EXT. PRISON YARD - DAY

Foley and Buddy sit atop a cement picnic table watching as

nearby, the "winning" BOXER -- still wearing last night's

pummelling on his face -- gloats to a group of cons.  He throws

a fake punch at one of them as he demonstrates his winning

technique...

Foley looks at the other side of the yard where Maurice now

stands at the far side of the yard coldly watching the guy, one

hand thrust into his pocket.  Foley watches as Maurice stops

the NEW INMATE -- the older guy who looked out of place at the

fights -- as he comes out into the yard.

Foley watches as Maurice talks to the new inmate, the guy

nodding, acquiescent, respectful.

Foley watches as Ripley now makes a note in a BLACK BOOK.

They look to where Glenn Michaels, the blond guy in dark shades

we saw in Maurice's corner, works out on the bench press a few

feet away.  He's shirtless, tan, in shape.

Foley helps him get the bar up.  Glenn sits up.

He watches Snoopy talking to Ripley, one eye always on the

swaggering boxer across the yard, one hand in his pocket.

Foley watches a few more of Maurice's friends surround Ripley.

Again, Ripley takes out his black book, starts nodding, making

notations...

A BELL SOUNDS.  Everyone starts walking for the gate.

Foley watches as the Boxer and his crew head for the gate,

Maurice still standing there with his hand in his pocket.

SLOW MOTION AS the boxer gets to the gate, sees Maurice who

moves to him now, smiling like he's so glad to see him... his

left hand clapping the guy on the back, saying something like

congratulations as now his right hand comes out of his pocket

and we see the long metal shiv--

Maurice wraps his left arm around the boxer's shoulder and hugs

him tight for a moment, then quickly moves away.  The Boxer

stands there like a statue, doesn't move until he's at last

jostled from behind and his legs fold and he drops to the cement.

We hear a WHISTLE BLOW as a GUARD spots the body.  And now

everyone moves like hell for the gate... except for...

Richard Ripley who stands there frozen, staring down at the

body.

Foley glances back at the approaching guards, casually takes

Ripley by the arm as he passes, leads him away from there, talks

to him as they walk into the block...

Foley then moves away.  He sees Maurice looking back at him,

giving him a hard stare just before he melts into the crowd.

INT. FOLEY'S CELL - BELLE GLADE - DAY (NOW)

He lies there another moment when...

A PAIROF LEGS swings down over the side from the top bunk.

Foley's CELLMATE jumps down, walks the three feet or so to the

toilet, casually pulls down his pants and starts to go to the

bathroom.  Foley shakes his head and turns away...

EXT. STRIP MALL - DAY

As Buddy walks up to a Cadillac Sedan DeVille Concours pulling

a slim-jim from the back of his pants, about to jimmy the door,

when he sees...

A WOMAN -- middle-aged, wearing pearls and high heels -- come

out of the Winn Dixie pushing a grocery cart full of groceries.

Buddy sticks the jimmy back in his pants, waits until the woman

is opening her trunk before coming forward...

She doesn't seem too sure about it, but lets him load the

groceries in the trunk and take the key out of the lock.

Buddy smiles, waves her off.

She stands there stupidly as he gets in and drives off.

INT. CHAPEL - DUSK

In the midst of a remodel.  As door opens and Pup comes in.

Foley puts a finger to his lips...

Foley watches Pup creep up the aisle towards the front of the

chapel, eyes on the floor, listening...

Pup turns his back, walks up the aisle and across the front of

the pews to a window.

As Pup stares out the window...

Foley reaches down into a pew where's stashed a FOUR-FOOT

CRUCIFIX.  He picks it up, starts up the aisle...

INT. KAREN SISCO'S CAR - DUSK

As the high beams from her car show the prison parking area,

then the fence strung with razor wire.  Karen parks near the

fence, lights a cigarette and dials her car phone.

Headlights hit Karen's rear-view mirror, a car pulling in behind

her.  The lights go off, then come on again.  She adjusts the

mirror to deflect the glare.

INT. THE CAR BEHIND HER - DUSK

As Buddy sits watching the cons come in from the athletic field.

He sees the mirror flash in the car in front of him as Karen

checks her face out in the rear-view.

INT. CHAPEL - DUSK

As Foley moves up behind Pup, he lets his jacket fall to the floor,

holds the crucifix down against his leg.

Now he pulls his radio from his belt, says into it...

Okay-- now Foley raises the metal cross, steps in and lays it

smack against the side of Pup's head.  Drops him clean with one

swing, bouncing him off the window frame and down without a

sound coming from him.

INT. KAREN SISCO'S CAR - NIGHT

As Karen grabs the court papers off the seat, opens her car

door, glances at the fence and pauses as she sees A FIGURE there,

crouching down.

Karen turns on her headlights.  No, not crouched.  The guy is

Head and shoulders appear and another guy comes out of the

ground.  Right in front of her.

Karen leans on the horn, holds it down and sees the two guys by

the fence -- Chino and Lulu -- look into her headlights, poised

there for a moment before taking off into the dark.  Karen gets

out of the car...

INT. BUDDY'S CAR - SAME

As Buddy watches a spotlight from the tower come on and follow

the two cons as we then hear the sound of RIFLE REPORTS before

the men disappear into the dark.

Then Buddy sees Karen in his headlights, whistles softly as he

gets a good look at her long legs as she raises the lid to her

trunk...

He watches her duck her head in the trunk and come out with a

holstered pistol.

But then she throws the pistol in the trunk, ducks in there

again and comes out this time racking a shotgun.

And now Buddy watches her hurry to the front of her car and

raise the shotgun as we hear A WHISTLE BLOW IN THE COMPOUND.

Buddy gets out of the car...

EXT. PARKING AREA - SAME

As Karen puts the shotgun on two more cons, both filthy dirty,

standing by the hole they just crawled out of.

Buddy watches the two cons, both Latins, make up their minds,

start edging away -- shit, they've come this far.

They look out at the spotlight sweeping around in the dark,

then look the other way, along the fence towards the main gate,

to see armed hacks coming out on the run, and that decides it

for the cons.  They take off running...

Now Buddy watches as Karen puts her pump gun on them, but doesn't

fire...

The hacks running from the gate with rifles beat her to it,

open up all at once and keep firing until the two convicts are

cut down as they run.

The hacks glance at Karen, but don't bother with her, more

interested in the hole the convicts had come out of.  Now they're

standing by it peering in, edging closer with their weapons

ready, then they all step back at once, bump into each other

as...

A head appears wearing a guard's baseball cap, the guy now saying

something to the guards, his face smeared with muck, excited,

pointing towards the orange grove.

They run off, pausing briefly to kick the convicts they shot to

see if they're alive, then keep going.

The man in the hole, Foley, climbs out.  He takes his time,

puts on a show, standing with his hands on his hips like an

honest-to-God hack, that serious cap down on his eyes.

Buddy waves to Foley to come on and Karen turns and puts the

shotgun on Buddy.  Buddy raises the palm of his hand.

Not so much asking, but putting it to him the way cops do when

they're already pretty sure what you're doing.  She glances

around to include Foley, now coming at her like some creature

out of the swamp, giving Buddy time to take her around the neck.

She fights him, jabs him in the gut with the butt end of the

shotgun before Foley wrenches it from her grip.

They drag her to the rear end of her car, the trunk lid still

up, and crouch there as some hacks come running along the fence,

past the dark gun tower and cross the road towards the orange

grove.  A moment later, they hear bursts of gunfire, then silence.

He turns to see Foley and Karen staring at each other in the

headlights from Buddy's car; Karen not at all afraid.

Foley keeps staring at her like he's giving the situation serious

thought, but what he says is...

Karen looks at him, then gets up, climbs into the trunk.  She's

reaching around, trying to find her pistol, when...

Foley gives her a shove and gets in with her, wedging her against

the wall of the trunk, pressing against her back like they're

cuddled up in bed.

He holds her to him, giving her no room to turn and stick the

gun in his face.  Buddy reaches for the trunk lid and then

everything goes...

BLACK

Total darkness, not a crack or a pinpoint of light showing.

Then we hear the engine come to life, the car moving along.

A BEAM OF LIGHT appears as he finds a flashlight and turns it

on.  He plays the beam along Karen's leg, calms down some as he

looks at all of her now and finally says...

They go over some bumps.  We hear men's voices from somewhere

far off, outside.

He runs his hand down her thigh, looking for her gun, but also,

just, well, looking.

EXT. CAR - NIGHT

As Buddy floors it away from the prison, checks the rearview

mirror...

INT. TRUNK - SAME

As Jack tries to wipe some of the mud off his face.

More bumps.  Then picking up speed as the road smooths out.

INT. CAR - SAME

As Buddy rifles through Karen's bag while he drives.  He looks up

from her badge and ID case at the road.

INT. TRUNK - SAME

He looks at her, then looks away as we...

EXT. CAR - SAME

As the car turns into a main highway now...

INT. TRUNK - SAME

As Foley plays the light down the length of her...

EXT. CAR - SAME

As Buddy passes a sign that says "MIAMI, 74 MILES."

INT. TRUNK - SAME

As she tries to get a look at him...

And for a few moments, all we hear is the sound of the car on

the road.  Then...

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

Quiet.  Empty.  A moment later the car flies past.

INT. TRUNK - SAME

We HEAR FAINT SIRENS OS...

INT. CAR - SAME TIME

As Buddy sees FLASHING LIGHTS approach from the opposite

direction.  He stays cool as the green and whites get closer...

closer... then fly right on past.

INT. TRUNK - SAME

As the SIRENS SCREAM AT US FOR A MOMENT, then FADE.

Silence.  Foley tries to get back to where it was working...

They lie there a moment, think about that as we hear THE CAR

SLOWING DOWN, coasting, then bumping along the shoulder of the

road to a stop.

The trunk goes dark again as the car's turned off.

And the trunk lid raises so that we see Karen and Foley lying

in the back.  Foley gets out.  Karen doesn't move.

Karen pushes off, rolls from her right side to her left, brings

up her Sig Sauer in both hands to put it on them, both standing

in the opening, in the dark, but right there.

Foley brings the lid down, he and Buddy moving in opposite

directions as she begins firing from the inside...

As Buddy and Foley hook up again in front of the car.  We can

see they're beneath an overpass.  Foley stares at the trunk.

Foley walks to the passenger seat, reaches in the window.

Foley takes her wallet, looks at her driver's licence photo.

A sheriff's green-and-white goes screaming past and they keep

to the narrow space between the car and the concrete abutment

of the overpass.  When the road quiets down, Foley moves to the

trunk and bangs on it once with his fist.

Foley jumps at the sound of a pistol shot.

He looks up to see Buddy holding her shotgun, staring at him.

He settles down, then...

Foley puts his hand out and Buddy, still looking at him funny,

gives him the keys.

Coming from somewhere above them.

Foley steps out into the open, Buddy close behind him.  They

look up to see a figure, head and shoulders against the evening

sky, leaning on the concrete overpass rail.  We can see his

long blond hair falling beside his face, now half-concealed

behind dark sunglasses.

Foley looks at Buddy.

Foley thinks about it, then looks up at the overpass again.

Foley shakes his head, then walks back to the Ford and bangs

on the trunk.

Foley sticks the key in the lock as Buddy steps up to the trunk

and racks the pump on the shotgun.  Foley leans close to the

metal.

He turns the key and raises the lid.  Karen, bunched in there,

extends her arm, her hand holding the Sig Sauer by the barrel.

"Jack."  Buddy gives him another funny look.

EXT. TOP OF OVERPASS - NIGHT

As Glenn removes a note stuck in the side window of a stolen

Audi that reads "GONE TO GET GAS."

Glenn looks over as the three of them reach the top of the grade,

move through the scrub.  Glenn leans against the car, flashers

blinking.

Glenn shrugs, takes them off and sticks them in his jeans.

Foley stares at him, waiting.  Glenn motions to Karen...

She walks past Foley without looking at him.

He doesn't say anything as Glenn takes off the raincoat, folds

it up, then throws it at Foley's feet.

Foley watches as Glenn gets his sunglasses out, puts them back

on and takes Karen by the arm.

Karen looks over at Foley, then ducks her head and gets in the

backseat.

Buddy watches Foley struggle with the buttons on the uniform,

all of them caked with muck.

He lays the shotgun in the grass and comes up, takes the guard

shirt in his two hands and rips it open, popping buttons and

tearing the shirt.

Foley looks at him.

INT. CAR - SAME

As Karen watches Glenn get into the car, sees him as the dome

light comes on for a second or two before he closes the door.

He half turns, laying his arm along the top of the seats, runs

his hand through his hair...

Karen leans forward to have a look, sees Foley and Buddy against

the dark foliage.

His head turns so that we can see his designer shades.

He raises his hand, strokes his hair away from his face.

He doesn't move or say a word, staring at her now like he's

been turned to stone.

He turns away, all the way around to look straight ahead...

She touches his shoulder and he jumps.

She pauses.  He turns and looks at her.

EXT. OVERPASS - SAME

Foley watches a car pass on the highway.

Foley doesn't say anything.  Just takes a deep breath as we

HEAR THE CAR START and they both look over...

They start towards the car.  Then stop and watch as it takes

off, tires squealing as the rubber hits pavement.  Their backs

to us, they stand there watching the tailights until they're

out of sight down the turnpike, neither of them saying a word.

We hear SQUEAKY FOOTSTEPS OVER...

CUT TO: A CORRIDOR IN LOMPOC FPC

As Maurice Miller and his "man" -- a big black bulk named HIMEY

-- strut purposefully up the hall.  They step into...

THE PRISON LIBRARY

Where Richard Ripley sits at one of the tables reading a big

coffee-table book called "THE WARM WORLD OF TROPICAL FISH."

Ripley looks up as Maurice and Himey come strolling into the

library, sit down on either side of a now very anxious Ripley.

He sets a small Ziploc with two tiny fish inside down on the

table.

Ripley sighs, takes out his black book and opens it.

Ripley looks at the two tiny fish in the bag.

They all look to where...

JACK FOLEY

Sits at the far end of the table, reading a thick manual of

some kind.  Himey gives him a mean stare.  Foley points to a

sign that says "QUIET PLEASE."

Foley shuts the big book -- CHILTON'S AUTO REPAIR.

Foley shakes his head, turns to Ripley.

Ripley looks at Maurice: Good point.

Ripley turns back to Foley now: Also a good point.

Ripley nods, takes this in.

Foley doesn't move, just gives the guy a bored once over.

Himey bulldozes forward, pulling his massive fist back to clock

Foley in the head when...

...in one swift motion Foley brings his book up in one hand,

like he's throwing a pie, and drives the hefty repair manual

into Himey's face, snapping the big guy's head back, sending

his feet flying out from under him so that he hits the floor

back-first with a loud thud.

Maurice goes for Foley who picks up the chair just as we hear A

WHISTLE.  They all freeze, look to...

A PRISONER AT ANOTHER TABLE

Who nods towards the door.  We PAN OVER just as A GUARD APPEARS,

takes in the scene as a dazed Himey slowly pulls himself up,

covers his now bleeding nose.

The guard exits.  Maurice and Foley are still staring at each

other.

He pours the water out of the bag and drops the fish into

Ripley's open hand.  Maurice then squeezes Ripley's hand into a

fist, crushing the fish.  He taps his fist to Ripley's.

Maurice gives Foley a last look, starts out of the room with

Himey.  Ripley looks at the crushed fish in his hand, then at

Foley.

We hear a PHONE RING and then...

CUT TO: MAURICE MILLER'S HOUSE - THE BEDROOM - (NOW)

As Maurice lies in bed watching a boxing match on television.

Maurice's girlfriend MOSELLE - about thirty, sleepy-eyed, in a

green bathrobe - picks the frisbee up off the floor as THE PHONE

RINGS AWAY on the bedside table right next to Maurice.

Maurice watches as Moselle now tries to throw the frisbee to a

little wire-haired terrier, but it just bounces off the dog's

head.

He lovingly nuzzles the dog like it's his child.

He looks at her.

She comes over, picks up the phone.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - GAS STATION - NIGHT

An antsy Glenn with his shades on talks on the phone.

INTERCUTTING GLENN & MAURICE:

Glenn watches as some guy in a suit gets out of a black Lincoln

Town Car and jogs to the john.

Maurice doesn't say a word.

EXT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - SOMEWHERE IN FLORIDA - NIGHT

As Foley and Buddy hurry up the front steps.

Buddy opens the door, looks at Foley.

INT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A "hideout."  Not much in the way of furnishings.  Foley follows

Buddy inside, watches as he bolts the door.

Foley starts for the bathroom.

Foley goes into the bathroom.  A moment later WE HEAR THE BATH

RUNNING.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - DAY

As Buddy leaves the apartment, starts down the hall, KAREN STEPS

INTO FRAME, watches as he disappears down the stairs.  Gun drawn,

she then moves towards the apartment.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

As Foley undresses, picks up a candle off the sink and smells

it.  He notices his nude image in the mirror and checks himself

out.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

As Karen slips the door.  She looks around, HEARS THE WATER

RUNNING.

She racks the slide on her gun, snicks off the safety and starts

for the bathroom.  Suddenly, the water is turned off.  She stops

where she is.  She then moves a careful step at a time towards

the open doorway.

Gradually the tub comes into view, beginning with Foley's feet

resting crossed on the other end, then the middle of the tub,

then she's in the doorway, looking down at...

Foley, lying there in the tub, his eyes closed.  Karen cuts her

eyes down the length of him, taking a moment here to check him

out, long enough for Foley to open his eyes and grab her hand,

the one holding the gun.

They look at each other a moment.  He then pulls her down to

him and kisses her.  She kisses him back.  He then pulls her

into the tub with him as we now hear...

CUT TO: KAREN

As she opens her eyes.

REVEAL: A HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Flowers everywhere.  Karen -- bruises on her face -- lies in

bed.  Her father, Marshall, sits on the chair beside her.

We hear A KNOCK at the door.  They look to where Special Agent

DANIEL BURDON -- black, forties, expensive suit -- stands in

the doorway, file in one hand.

Marshall looks at him a moment.  Then, to Karen...

Burdon waits for Marshall to walk out, then sits down.

And now we see it...

INSIDE THE CAR

Going over a hundred miles per hour, blowing past cars...

She reaches over and grabs the wheel.

He hits the brakes.  The car goes off the road, down the grade,

the abutment coming right at us as we go back to...

THE HOSPITAL ROOM

As Burdon sets the file down, sits back now.

Burdon looks at Karen a moment, then...

We hear CHUCKLING OS.  Burdon glances at the doorway where we

see Marshall now standing, enjoying this.

Marshall waits for him to walk out...

She's not listening.  He sits down, takes her hand...

She looks at him.

EXT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

A dozen GERIATRIC RESIDENTS sit on chairs out front as Buddy

climbs the steps carrying a bag of groceries under one arm,

newspaper under the other.  An old woman comes out the door as

Buddy opens it and squints at him.

INT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - DAY

Buddy's REAL apartment, not the one Karen pictured in her dream.

This one's nicer, with a view of the beach.  Jack stands on the

balcony going through KAREN'S PURSE.

He pulls out her wallet, checks out her driver's licence photo.

He does the same with her gym I.D. card.  He finds her address

book and opens it up.  A photo of her father slips out.  Jack

examines it a moment, then flips through the book.

He stares at something in her bag a moment, then reaches in

and comes up with her us Marshal I.D.  He slips it open and

studies the badge and the picture opposite.

He holds on to it, looks out at the ocean, but really sees...

THE OPEN TRUNK OF THE CAR - LAST NIGHT

As Karen gets out, saying...

BACK IN THE APARTMENT

Foley turns away from the view as Buddy walks in, sets the

grocery bag down on the coffee table.

He holds up the newspaper so that Foley can see his picture on

the front page: an unflattering mug shot that doesn't look all

that much like him.

Buddy reaches into the bag, tosses Foley a NEW ZIPPO.

Foley catches the lighter, immediately begins playing with it.

He looks at the paper on the coffee table as Buddy sits down,

pulls some groceries and a sixpack from the bag.

Foley walks back out on to the balcony, looks at the contents of

Karen's bag spread out on the table.

Foley holds up the picture of Marshall Sisco.

Foley picks up her drivers licence photo.

EXT. MARSHALL SISCO'S CONDO - DAY

Right on a marina.  Boats bobbing on the water.

INT. MARSHALL SISCO'S CONDO - DAY

Marshall sits in his chair holding up a newspaper as Karen hands

him a drink.  She stares at the photograph.

She realizes Marshall's watching her.

The doorbell RINGS.  She ignores his look, gets up.  Walks to

the door and opens it to reveal RAY NICOLET, boots, leather

jacket, etc.  Cowboy Cop.

Marshall gets up, shakes his head.

Ray turns to Karen, holding his jacket open to show the task

force inscription on his T-shirt in red, the guy's .357 tucked

into his waistband.

Karen looks at him.

She grabs Nicolet by the arm.

Marshall looks at her.

Her father gives her a look.

THE PHONE RINGS.  Marshall moves to it.

CUT TO: FOLEY ON THE PHONE - DAY

On the balcony.  Flipping through a copy of

watches television inside.

INTERCUTTING KAREN & FOLEY - DAY

Karen just stands there, sees her father looking at her as Ray

drones on.

She walks out to her father's balcony now.

Marshall picks up the newspaper...

She closes the glass door, so that they won't hear her.

Foley stops flipping through the magazine, stares at what he's

been looking for: an ad for

She doesn't know what to say to that.  Foley smells the ad.

INSIDE THE HOUSE

ON THE PATIO:

Karen looks inside at her father talking with Ray Nicolet.

Buddy opens the door, sticks his head out, startles Foley.

Foley's caught off guard, hangs up the phone.  He looks at Buddy.

INT. MARSHALL'S CONDO - DAY

As Karen stands on the balcony another moment, then hangs up,

opens the sliding door and walks back into the living room.

He looks over at her now.  Gives her an innocent look.

INT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - DAY

As Foley and Buddy watch a news report on the earlier events at

the hobo camp.  We catch a glimpse of RAY NICOLET, GUN IN HIS

WAISTBAND, STICKING HIS CHEST OUT FOR THE CAMERA.

Foley shakes his head as they show a shot of Lulu's body covered

with a sheet.

Foley doesn't answer.  Buddy mutes the set.  Turns to Foley.

EXT. MARSHALL SISCO'S BOAT - DAY

Karen stands there with her car keys and purse as Marshall paints

the trim on the boat.

She gives him a look.  He goes back to his painting.

INT. ADELE DELISI'S APARTMENT - DAY

As Adele comes in, drops a stack of her cards on the glass-topped

dining table and turns on the window air-conditioner when THE

PHONE RINGS.  She grabs it...

EXT. PAYPHONE - DAY

Adele's neighbourhood.  Near the beach.  Chino on the phone.  He

wears a painter's cap and a white jumpsuit...

He hangs up, glances about, then checks the little .22 stuck in

one of his pockets.  As he then starts off down the street, we

can see the name "COLOR MY WORLD HOUSEPAINTING" on the back of

the jumpsuit.

INT. BUDDY'S CAR - DAY

Buddy drives.  Foley -- in a bright orange and ochre beach outfit --

is beside him.  Buddy looks at him, shakes his head.

As they drive past, Buddy indicates a MAN on the steps out front,

obviously FBI...

Buddy follows Foley's gaze to...

ACROSS THE STREET

As a car door opens and Karen Sisco gets out, rifles her purse

for change.  She drops a quarter, Foley now watching as she

bends down to grab it, her skirt hiking way up her thigh...

Foley watches, her hair in her face as she tries to reach under

the car and grab it.

They watch as she walks to the Normandie and shows the YOUNG

AGENT her ID...

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE ADELE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Adele has the chain on the door, talks to Karen through the

narrow opening.

Karen watches Adele's face in the opening, freshly made up,

heavy on the eye shadow and lip gloss.

She thinks a moment.  The door closes and opens again, all the

way.  Adele stands there in a robe, hanging partly open, panties,

but no bra.

She comes in, checks out the place.  She turns a chair from the

glasstop table and sits down as Adele comes out of the

kitchenette with a Diet Coke and packet of cigarettes.

She walks away, comes back with an ashtray.

Karen waits, watches her light her cigarette.

Adele sits down at the other end of the table.

Adele looks out the window.  Karen waits, looks to an end table

where she sees a photograph of Jack and Adele on a boat somewhere

ten years back.

She realizes Adele is looking at her.

Karen shakes her head.

Adele looks at Karen, then jumps at the sound of three quick

raps on the door.

Karen looks at the door.  Something's wrong... through the glass

bricks that line one side of the door, we see blurred movement

on the other side, someone doing

And now Karen and Adele look at each other.

Karen shakes her head "no."

Boom.  Karen gets to her feet, brings her bag to the edge of

the table, sees Adele staring at her.

Karen brings her Beretta out of the bag.

Karen moves along the table to Adele...

As Adele speaks, Karen racks the slide on her 9mm.

Karen motions for Adele to keep talking as she takes a position

beside the door, where we now see Chino's silhouette in one of

the three glass panels in the centre of the door.

Adele says nothing.  Then...

Suddenly, Chino's fist -- wrapped in his shirt -- explodes

through one of the glass panels.  Adele and Karen both jump as

Chino pushes his arm through, reaches for the door knob...

...but Karen grabs the knob first and, using all of her weight

as leverage, pivots and flings the door open with Chino's arm

still sticking through the glass...

...the force of which slingshots the man into the room where he

bangs against a wall and falls to the floor.  Dazed, Chino

reaches for his .22 as he now tries to get to his feet.

Karen brings up her Beretta in two hands, cocks it and puts the

front sight on his chest.

He now aims the gun point-blank at Adele.

Chino doesn't move.  Keeps his gun on Adele.  Karen starts

walking towards him...

And with that, she kicks him in the knee.  Chino buckles over

and she hits him on the side of the head with her gun...

He does as he's told.  Karen raises his jacket, feels around

his waist from behind.

She kicks him over onto his stomach and stays there.  She puts

her foot to his back as she reaches for the phone, dials.  She

sees Adele staring at her.

Karen looks at Adele a moment, then says into the phone...

Adele looks at Karen, who shoves Chino's head to the floor with

her foot.

Karen hangs up, looks at Adele.  Adele nods.

INT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

As Foley and Buddy quickly pack up their stuff.

INT. SHALAMAR APARTMENTS - LOBBY - NIGHT

The ancient residents stop what they're doing as Burdon enters

with eight guys in jackets and wool shirts hanging out, running

shoes, half of them carrying what look like athletic bags.

Karen meets them as they all walk to the elevator.

She hands it to him as they wait for the elevator.

Burdon, Karen and the remaining four SWAT team agents.  Burden

looks at them one at a time.

They all look at her.

Burdon looks at her, not all that happy she spoke up.  The fourth

man raises the shotgun, a three-inch strip of metal taped to

the muzzle.

He sees the elevator still hasn't come down.

Burdon pauses, looks at Karen, hands her a radio.

She doesn't say anything.

Before she can answer, an old woman steps in, asks Burdon...

Burdon looks at her, then nods for his men to start up the

stairs.

ON THE SEVENTH FLOOR - DAY

Everyone's in position as Burdon eases the key into the lock,

turns it.  The door won't budge, a dead bolt holds it shut.

The guy with the shotgun puts the strip of metal against the

seam, where the lock enters the frame, the muzzle of the shotgun

exactly three inches now from the dead bolt, and looks over his

shoulder at Burdon.

With the sound of the blast, we then...

CUT TO:  INSIDE THE ELEVATOR - DAY

As Foley and Buddy ride down with an old lady.  The doors open.

The woman doesn't move.

INT. THE LOBBY - SAME TIME - DAY

As an old gent in a golf cap smiles at Karen sitting there on

the couch in front of the elevator...

He creeps off towards the elevator.

INT. BUDDY'S APARTMENT - DAY

As Burdon and his men fan out through the place...

INT. LOBBY - DAY

As we hear Burdon's voice.

Karen looks off towards the street entrance, then back at the

elevator where the man is still waiting, leaning on his cane.

The elevator door opens to reveal Buddy and Foley.

Buddy and Foley don't answer.  The old man starts to get on,

feeling with his cane, taking forever.

Karen and Foley are staring at each other.  He doesn't move.

Not until the elevator door begins to close.

Buddy sees Karen, helps the old man aboard as...

Karen picks up her radio, is about to speak into it when...

Foley raises his hand.  And

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

As the elevator resumes going down.

INT. BUDDY'S CAR - DAY

As they get in and Buddy starts the car...

Buddy gives him a look, shakes his head and then burns rubber

out of the garage as we...

CUT TO: A CLOSE-UP OF KAREN - DAY

Staring straight ahead.

INT. AIRPORT TERMINAL - DAY

As Marshall walks Karen to the gate.

She shakes her head.

She gives him a kiss...

EXT. BLOOMFIELD HILLS - DETROIT - DAY

Snow.  Everywhere.  A black Lincoln Town Car creeps through the

neighbourhood full of big, beautiful snow-covered homes.

INT. CAR - SAME

Glenn -- sunglasses -- sits in the back with Maurice, aka "Snoopy" --

wearing a purple bandanna and his own dark sunglasses.

Glenn just nods, stares out the window.

Maurice indicates WHITE BOY BOB, a fucking huge, depraved-

looking white guy now squeezed in behind the wheel.

The car creeps past a huge Tudor-style country house.

EXT./INT. CAR - MAURICE NEIGHBORHOOD IN DETROIT - LATER

People on the street with vacant expressions watch as the black

Town Car moves past the broken-down homes, cars on blocks and

snow-covered trash.

The car pulls to the kerb and KENNETH -- a wiry black man in a

bright yellow T-shirt and red baseball cap backward, always

seems to be high on some chemical or another - gets in.

Kenneth tosses a gym bag into the back seat.  Glenn stares at

it.  Something about the bag makes him uneasy.  Maybe it's the

HACKSAW that sticks partially out of the opening.

White Boy Bob pulls out again.  Glenn looks at the two psychos

in front, then turns to Maurice.

Glenn can't believe this is happening.

Glenn looks at Maurice, now ice-cold behind the shades.

Glenn looks out the window as they pull up in front of a decrepit-

looking two-story house.  Maurice opens the gym bag, passes the

hack saw and a HAND AXE up to White Boy Bob, a SAWED-OFF SHOTGUN

to Kenneth, and takes out a big .45 for himself.

Glenn hesitates, then slowly gets out of the car as we hear...

EXT. LOMPOC FPC - YARD - DAY

As Foley walks with Ripley across the yard.

Ripley sits down on one of the picnic tables, looks around the

yard.

Foley looks at Ripley.

Ripley shakes his head, then gets up...

Foley watches him go.

CUT TO: CLOSE UP OF FOLEY

As he turns to us.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL: WE'RE INSIDE A CAR

Across the street from the KRONK RECREATION CENTER -- a red-

brick building in a bleak, depressing neighbourhood.

Buddy reads from a newspaper while Foley watches the gym.

Buddy looks at him.  Notices something over Foley's shoulder.

And now Foley turns and looks over as the black Town Car

pulls into the Kronk parking lot.

INT. TOWN CAR - SAME

Kenneth and White Boy Bob nod along to some rap tape in the

front seat.  Glenn sits in the back, looking pale, hugging

himself, shaking.  Maurice looks out the window...

Maurice looks at Glenn now and grins.

Glenn just looks at Maurice.

Glenn says nothing, just looks at Kenneth.

And he and Whiteboy start laughing as they get out of the car.

Maurice looks at him, starts laughing.  White Boy Bob and Kenneth

join in.  Maurice leans over... Glenn flinches as Maurice opens

Glenn's jacket so that we can see the BLOOD splattered on his T-

shirt.

INT. FOLEY AND BUDDY'S CAR - SAME

As they watch Glenn and Snoopy and White Boy Bob get out of the

car.

INT. BOXING GYM - DAY

Glenn sits on a bench near the rear wall, facing the ring.

Kenneth grabs a magazine, walks into the john.  A shirtless

White Boy Bob lifts weights while Maurice moves around the ring

calling to the boxers inside.

He looks up, sees Buddy and Foley coming this way.

They sit down on either side of him, close.

Now he turns to Buddy as Buddy stands up, takes off his overcoat

and sits down again.

Glenn turns to see Foley with a mild expression on his face,

almost smiling.

Foley notices the blood on Glenn's shirt.

Foley follows his gaze, sees Maurice coming this way, White Boy

Bob beside him, carrying his shirts.

Maurice stands at the edge of the ring apron, looks from Foley

to Buddy and back again, pretty serious about it.

White Boy Bob stares down Buddy who couldn't give a shit.

Foley looks at Glenn.  Glenn shrugs, laughs nervously.  Foley

smiles, laughs with him, maybe a little too hard.  Now Maurice

starts laughing.  Buddy, too.  White Boy's lost, looking from

one guy to the next as Foley gets up, faces Maurice, his smile

going away as he says...

Foley nods then looks at Glenn as Buddy gets up.

Maurice then watches as they walk out.

EXT. CRIME SCENE - NIGHT

The same decrepit two-storey place Maurice et al hit earlier.

Now it's a CRIME SCENE.  A SMALL CROWD of neighbourhood gawkers

stand just behind the yellow tape.  A HUGE SPOTLIGHT lights up

the front yard.

Karen pulls up in her rental car, gets out and badges the visibly-

freezing COP at the tape, working crowd control.

Karen ducks under the tape and starts up the walk.  She pauses

to watch as two CORONER'S ASSISTANTS cover with a sheet a DEAD

BLACK WOMAN who lies just below a broken upstairs window.

INT. HOUSE - SAME

Hell.  Karen has to step over a body minus a face that lies in

the doorway.  Straight ahead on the stairs is another body, A

MAN ON HIS BACK, head down the stairs, shotgun blast to the

chest.  He wears a dress, now bunched up around his waist.

Congealed blood runs down the stairs.  COPS and CRIME SCENE

TECHS are everywhere.  Karen looks at the guy on the stairs.

Karen looks over as RAYMOND CRUZ, a stocky, genial-looking

detective comes out of the kitchen.

He kisses her on the cheek.  She indicates the body by the door.

This shuts them both up.  Cruz indicates the door.

She starts to follow him out, pauses as she sees something on

the ground...

A BROKEN PAIR OF SUNGLASSES

Wrap-around... a lot like the ones she remembers Glenn wearing.

Karen stares at them a moment, then walks out.

EXT. CRIME SCENE - NIGHT

As Cruz and Karen walk to his car, STROBES FLASH as press

photographers struggle to shoot the crime scene.

He turns and looks at her.

As he gets into his car, we then:

CUT TO: A NEWSPAPER

The crime scene from the night before.  A shot of Karen and Ray

Cruz as they exit the house.  A headline reads "TRIPLE MURDER"

blah-blah-blah...

REVEAL: FOLEY'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Foley, wearing a suit now, no shoes, no tie, looks at the

newspaper photograph of Karen.

INT. BUDDY'S ROOM - SAME

Buddy looking at the same shot...

INTERCUTTING FOLEY & BUDDY

Foley reaches in one of the bags from the Jewish Recycling Center

and pulls out a tie.

Foley hangs up.  He faces the mirror, starts to tie his tie.

INT. RIPLEY'S CELL - DAY

Foley leans in the doorway watching as Ripley, dressed in a

jogging suit, and under the watchful eye of A GUARD, gathers up

his belongings.  He's going home.

He tears a picture off the wall...

Foley stares at the photograph of sea life.

Foley looks at Ripley, who extends his hand.

INT. FOLEY'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Foley finishes tying his tie, stares into the mirror, takes in

the overall effect.

His smile fades, he then sits down heavily on the bed, looks at

the picture of Karen another moment, then sets the paper aside,

grabs the Yellow Pages, flips to HOTELS, and dials the phone...

He dials the next number...

EXT. MAURICE "SNOOPY" MILLER'S HOUSE - DAY

Red brick, showing its age.  Karen rings the doorbell and then

waits with her hands shoved into the pockets of her dark, navy

coat.  The door opens to reveal Moselle in her green silk robe

holding her arms close against the cold.

Sounding tired or bored.  She turns from the door and walks

into the living room.  Karen steps inside, pushes the door

closed and steps into the foyer.

Karen peers into a study, a small room with empty bookcases and

sees Kenneth in his backward red baseball cap as he talks on

the phone...

Karen walks into the living room, where Moselle sits on the sofa

lighting a cigarette.

Karen takes a chair and looks around the room: dismal, gray

daylight in the windows, dark wood and white stucco, the

fireplace full of trash, plastic cups, wrappers, a pizza box.

Moselle draws on her cigarette, blows out a stream of smoke.

Moselle looks at the couch, where a MANGLED FRISBEE sits.

Karen turns, sees Kenneth standing in the arched entrance from

the foyer.

He waits until Moselle gets up, not saying a word, walks away

from them through the dining room.  Karen watches him come toward

her now in kind of an easy strut.  She indicates the scar over

his eye...

He moves his head in what might be a feint.

He's standing so close to her, Karen has to look up at him.

Her hand goes into her bag next to the chair.

Her hand comes out of the bag holding what looks like the grip

on a golf club.  Kenneth grins at her...

Karen pushes out of the chair to stand with him face-to-face.

She gives him a friendly poke with the black vinyl baton that's

like a golf club grip.

She steps aside and brushes past him.  He grabs her left wrist...

Karen flicks the baton and sixteen inches of chrome steel shoots

out of the grip.  She pulls an arm's length away from him and

chops the rigid shaft at his head, Kenneth hunching, ducking

away...

He lets go of her and Karen gets the room she needs, so that

when he comes at her, she whips the shaft across the side of

his head and he howls, stops dead, presses a hand over his ear.

And she walks out.  She sees Moselle standing there in the foyer.

Karen looks at her a moment, puts the baton in her purse and

comes out with a business card.

Moselle slips the card into the pocket of her robe.  Karen smiles

at her and walks out the door.

EXT. RICHARD RIPLEY'S HOUSE - DAY

It's snowing pretty hard when Foley and Buddy pull up out front.

INT. BUDDY'S CAR - SAME

Buddy wipes the condensation off his window, so they can see

the house.

Foley looks at him.

Foley looks at him.

Foley turns back to the house.  And now we hear...

INT. RIPLEY ENTERPRISES PERSONNEL OFFICE - DAY

The personnel guy, MR. HEARN, sits behind his desk, squeezing a

grip exerciser and smiling warmly at Foley, who wears a shitty

suit and tie.

Mr. Hearn pauses, looks down at Foley...

But Mr. Hearn walks out without answering.  Foley looks at the

desktop, where a spoon sticks out of a half-eaten fruit-on-the-

bottom yogurt, which in turn sits beside a half-eaten Powerbar.

Foley shakes his head, takes out his zippo, starts to play with

it.

Foley turns as Mr. Hearn bounces back into the room with what

looks like a UNIFORM draped over one arm.

Mr. Hearn shows him the yellow patch that reads SECURITY on one

arm.  Foley smiles... amused... angry... hurt...

RICHARD RIPLEY'S OFFICE

View.  Wet bar.  Huge fucking aquarium.

Ripley looks up from his desk as Foley steps in, the receptionist

right behind him now.

Meanwhile, Ripley pushes a PANIC BUTTON beneath his desk...

Ripley considers Foley a moment, then...

Foley says nothing.

Still Foley says nothing.

Two massive SECURITY GUARDS appear in the doorway...

And with that he picks up a paperweight (A LEAD FISH) and wings

it at the aquarium, shattering the glass.

EXT. RIPLEY'S BUILDING - FLORIDA - DAY

As Foley is physically thrown out of the building by the two

guards.  He picks himself up.  He kicks at the guards, who wave

him off, go back inside.

Foley then starts down the steps, pauses as he sees...

THE BANK ACROSS THE STREET

calmly starts to take off his tie, drops it in the gutter as he

starts across the street...

INT. BUDDY'S CAR - DAY

As Buddy pulls away from the house, Foley pulls out the clipping of

Karen he tore out of the morning paper.  He's written the name

"WESTIN" on it.

CUT TO: THE SNOWSTORM

It's really coming down.  We then PULL BACK TO REVEAL we're

looking out of a window inside the cocktail lounge at the top of

the Westin.

A table of three young EXECUTIVE-LOOKING GUYS in suits are

laughing at something until Karen is ushered by a WAITRESS to

an adjacent table.

She turns, sees her reflection in the glass against the overcast

sky, snow swirling, blowing in gusts, seven hundred feet above

the city, down there somewhere.

She turns to see them raising snifter glasses to her, smiling,

pleasant-looking guys in dark suits.

She then watches the three guys looking at the waitress

delivering the message.  Then they look at Karen.  She gives

them a shrug, turns to watch the snow.  Her drink arrives.  She

takes a sip, looks up as one of the guys comes over...

She glances at the table, the other two watching.

She turns back to the snowstorm.  She sees his reflection turn

and leave.  A moment later, the next one appears at the table.

She just looks at him.  So sure of himself.

She says nothing to him.

He gives her a sympathetic expression.

She stares at the guy until he turns away.  She sips her drink,

stares once more out at the blizzard.  After a few moments,

another dark suit appears, reflected in the window.

Boom.  Not one of the executive guys.  She stares at the

reflection for a moment, then slowly turns, looks up at JACK

FOLEY now standing there in his new navy blue suit.

He pulls the chair out, looking at her.  The three guys at the

other table now staring as he sits down.  Foley offers his

hand...

She hesitates, then shakes his hand...

She smiles with him.  When she lowers her hand to the table,

his hand comes down to cover hers.  She watches his expression

as she brings her hand out slowly, his eyes not leaving hers,

and lays her hand on his.  The tips of her fingers brush his

knuckles, lightly back and forth.

She picks up her drink and places it in front of him.

She watches him take a sip, smack his lips.

This stops her, throws her off balance.

They look at each other a moment, then...

They both get up.  The ad guys at the table watch as she follows

Foley to the elevator.  Karen winks at them.

INT. ELEVATOR - NIGHT

As they ride down to Karen's room.  She looks at him, looks

away.  The doors open and they exit.

INT. HER HOTEL SUITE

As he follows her in.  She walks to the bar, fixes them each a

drink.  He checks out the room, takes in her view.

He comes over to her, takes out the newspaper clipping with her

picture and shows it to her.

She looks at him, touches his face with her hand...

He kisses her now, puts his arms around her.

She hands him his drink.  They both drink, then...

She stops and he looks at her over the rim of her glass.

She shrugs, lets it go.  He puts down his drink, kisses her.

She lets him, then moves to the couch.

He sits down and they kiss again.  This time she peels his jacket

off.  He does the same with hers.  He's starting to unbutton

her blouse when--

He stops.  Looks at her.

She looks at him, decides to get off this subject.  Anyway he's

finished unbuttoning her blouse and is now putting his hands

inside her shirt.  She closes her eyes.

As he kisses her on the neck.

She's loosening his tie, unbuttoning his shirt.

They look at each other a moment.

He starts to kiss her again, but--

And he moves to kiss her, but she stands up, holds out her hand.

He gets up and she leads him across the room...

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

Jack sits on the bed to take off his shoes, stands up to

take off his pants.

He looks at her, down to her bra and panties, watches as she

gets out of the rest of her clothes and comes over to him,

standing close to help him with the tie...

When her clothes are off, she loops the tie around his neck

again and then as she turns off the light...

She kisses him.  He sits down on the bed, drawing her back with

him, the only light now coming from the sitting room.

She smiles and then they start to make love as we then...

FADE OUT.

CUT TO: KAREN

Eyes open, serious now.

REVEAL

She's lying in Jack's arms.  She looks at him a moment, then

moves away from him to sit up and swing her legs off the bed.

She gets up and crosses the room to the bathroom and closes the

door.  Foley picks up his Zippo off the night table.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME

She comes in.  Looks at herself in the mirror.  Suddenly

feels self-conscious.  She grabs a bathrobe off the door.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

Foley lies there, fiddling with the Zippo, staring up at the

ceiling.  She comes out again and stands looking down at him.

He raises the covers, but she just stands there.

She comes over and sits down on the bed.

They lie there for a few moments, Karen watching him.  He senses

this, looks at her...

And he kisses her.

EXT. DETROIT - DAY

The sun is out.  The snow has stopped falling.  A white blanket

covers everything.

INT. KAREN'S HOTEL ROOM - SAME

Karen opens her eyes, wakes up.  She closes them again, lies

on her side, but doesn't move for a moment.  Then...

She opens her eyes and rolls on to her back.  She turns her head:

Foley's gone.  She gets out of bed.

INT. SITTING ROOM - SAME

Karen comes into the room tying her robe.  She looks at the

coffee table where...

Something wrapped in a napkin lies by the half-empty bottle and

the ice bucket.  She picks it up and slowly unfolds the "gift"

from Foley:  Her Sig-Sauer .38.

INT. FOLEY'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Buddy stands at the window looking out as Foley -- in his

underwear -- sits at the table reading the newspaper, a room-

service breakfast, a bottle of Jim Beam close by.

Buddy turns to him.

Buddy watches Foley pour a shot of Jim Beam in his coffee.

INT. KAREN'S HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Karen sits there staring at a Wild Turkey bottle, a couple of

glasses.  She reaches for the phone, dials.  A moment later, we

hear MARSHALL SISCO'S ANSWERING MACHINE and she hangs up.

INT. STATE THEATER - NIGHT

A ring set up on stage.  Men hang out on the side.  Where movie

seats used to be are rows of round nightclub tables; a row of

them on each of four levels rising a step at a time up through

the theatre to the bar.  Rap music booms out of speakers as

fighters are announced.

Everyone in here is black except for Glenn and White Boy Bob

who sit at a table in the front row while Maurice in a dude

black felt cap set on his head just right and shades walks along

the apron of the stage.

White Boy Bob throws down a beer and gives Glenn's shoulder a jab.

White Boy looks around to see if there are any other morons

sitting nearby who think it's funny.  Kenneth comes through for

his pal and laughs.

INT. THEATER - SAME

As Karen walks through the bar, pauses as she sees Glenn sitting

with White Boy and Kenneth.  She steps back into the shadows as

Glenn glances anxiously about.

ON GLENN

As he pushes his chair back.

He hesitates, sees the car keys on the table in front of White

Boy Bob.  But before he can grab them...

Glenn gets up, sees his coat on the back of the chair, but knows

he can't take it with him.  He walks away from the table.

EXT. STATE THEATER - PARKING LOT - SAME TIME

Glenn exits the theater and crosses to the parking lot.

Karen exits right after, watches him get into the Town Car.

INT. TOWN CAR - SAME TIME

Glenn behind the wheel, half lying on his right side as he tries

to rip open the locked glove compartment.  His head jerks around

as Karen opens the door.  He sits up straight as she gets in

with him.

He raises his empty hands.

Karen looks at him, shakes her head.

And he takes off.  She sits there another moment, then flicks

her cigarette out the door, gets out the car.

EXT. PARKING LOT - SAME

Karen looks across the street at the theatre, sees people

leaving.  A few seconds later, she steps behind a car and watches

as Buddy and Foley pull into the lot.

INT. THEATER - SAME

Maurice sits with White Boy and Kenneth as Foley and Buddy come

down the aisle to their table.

Foley and Buddy remain standing.

Foley nods to the raincoat draped over the back of a chair.

Foley gives Buddy a look.  White Boy Bob grins at them.

Maurice takes Foley by the arm, moves him away from the table.

Foley watches the fighters: one of them patient, moving in while

the other one takes wild swings and misses...

Foley looks at Maurice now.

Foley walks up to the bar with Buddy.

Foley takes out his lighter, begins playing with it.

Foley looks at him a moment, then...

ON MAURICE

As he sits down with White Boy Bob and Kenneth, watches as Buddy

and Foley talk up at the bar.

EXT. MAURICE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

It's snowing as Maurice, White Boy Bob, Kenneth, Buddy, and

Foley pile into the back of a van, the name of some plumbing

and heating company on the side.

We PULL BACK TO REVEAL that we're watching from inside Karen's

car.  She waits for the van to pull away, then follows.

INT. VAN - NIGHT

Kenneth -- the fucking maniac -- at the wheel.  Buddy and Foley

piled into the back of the van full of plastic pipe and

equipment.  Maurice pulls on a pair of white coveralls.

The guy grins at them.  Foley can't believe it.

Foley and Buddy exchange looks.  Maurice turns around, a Beretta

in his hand.  Foley looks at him.  Buddy tenses.

Maurice hands Foley the Beretta.  Then reaches into a bag, comes

up with a .38 he hands to Buddy.

INT. KAREN'S CAR - SAME

As Karen tries to keep up with the van.  But with the snow and

the way Kenneth drives, she starts to lose them.  She speeds up

around a corner and loses control of the car.

EXT. STREET - SAME

As Karen's car does a 360 in the ice and snow.

INT. VAN - NIGHT

Buddy and Foley are jostled about the back from Kenneth's insane

driving.

Kenneth grins in the mirror, punches it more.  Buddy gets out

the .38 and touches it to the back of Kenneth's head.

Kenneth, his eyes freaked with speed, glares at Buddy in the

mirror.

EXT. KAREN'S CAR - NIGHT

As a pissed-off Karen gets out of her car, watches the van

disappear.

INT. KAREN'S CAR - SAME

She takes out her cellphone, punches a number, re-orients her

car at the same time.

EXT. RICHARD RIPLEY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

As the van creeps by one way, then the other, then pulls into

the driveway.

INT./EXT.  VAN - RIPLEY'S HOUSE

All five of them in the back end of the van now, bumping into

each other until Maurice lets White Boy out the rear end, leaving

the doors open enough so he can watch.  He then racks the slide

on a .45.

Maurice looks at Buddy.  Buddy holds his gaze.  Then the coach

lights on either side of the front entrance come on.

Now the front door opens...

We catch a glimpse of a WOMAN in the doorway, arms folded over

her bathrobe as White Boy gives her a push and steps inside the

house with her.

Maurice is out of the truck and Kenneth, with a shotgun, is

scrambling to be next.  Buddy catches him by his jacket collar

and holds him squirming until Foley is out.

The minute Kenneth's feet hit the driveway he turns the 12-gauge

on Buddy, still in the truck.  Foley takes the barrel in one

hand and shoves it straight up in Kenneth's face.

Kenneth puts his face up close to Foley's and stares at him

good before going inside.  Foley turns to Buddy...

INT. HOUSE - FOYER - SAME

Where Maurice has the woman backed against a table.  She's in

her forties, with thick red hair hanging free.  She looks ready

to take a swing at whoever approaches...

Kenneth reaches out, opens her robe and we get a flash of flimsy

bra and low-cut panties before she slaps him away.

Foley catches the hesitation, glances at Buddy.

Maurice gives him a look, pulls the maid up the stairs.  Kenneth

and White Boy Bob follow...

Kenneth puts his arm around the maid.

He hooks a finger in the waist of her panties, pulls on the

elastic, is about to look in there when Maurice backhands him

across the face.

Alone with Buddy now, Foley rolls his mask up on his head.

INT. KAREN'S CAR - NIGHT

Karen on the phone... snow falling all around her.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME TIME

Full of fat, cushy chairs and a sofa, everything white or black,

a wet bar, a big TV, CD player.  Buddy moves into the doorway,

peers inside.

Kenneth is trying to find a radio station while Maurice and

White Boy Bob ransack the place.  White Boy Bob checks under

the mattress...

Maurice and Kenneth look over expectantly.

Maurice looks out the door, sees Buddy in the doorway.

White Boy Bob slips out of the room.  Maurice turns to Kenneth,

who's still playing with the stereo.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

White Boy Bob watches from the end of the hall as Foley peers

into each of the bedrooms.  Foley sees a back staircase and

starts down.  A moment later White Boy Bob follows.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

White Boy Bob comes down the stairs.  No sign of Foley.  White

Boy starts down one hallway, then turns back.  Now he's lost.

He opens a door, starts to walk into a closet, then backs out.

He goes down the hall, turns into...

THE KITCHEN - SAME

Where White Boy Bob enters, calls out tentatively.

He takes in the huge room, the massive sub-zero refrigerator.

He moves to the freezer, opens it, takes in the FROZEN STEAKS.

INT. HALLWAY (DOWNSTAIRS) - SAME

As Foley quietly moves to the doorway, peers into the kitchen,

watches White Boy Bob starts going through the freezer, taking

out steaks and stacking them up on the counter.  Foley shakes

his head and moves on.

INT. LIBRARY (DOWNSTAIRS) - SAME

Dark.  As Foley steps into the doorway, we BOOM DOWN to reveal

a LIGHTED AQUARIUM in f.g.  He comes into the room, sits down

in an armchair beside the fish tank.

He leans close to the glass, stares at the fish a moment.  He

sees a door reflected there and turns to look across the room,

sees how the phone cord disappears underneath.

Silence.  The door opens and we see a terrified Richard Ripley

sitting on top of a toilet, the phone in his lap.

Ripley moves to the doorway.

Ripley looks at him.  Foley pats the back of a chair.

EXT. BLOOMFIELD HILLS - ROAD - SAME

As Karen slowly negotiates her way through the snowstorm.

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

The music ON LOUD (Herb Alpert -- Tijuana Taxi).  Buddy stands

in the doorway, watches Maurice, out of his coveralls, as he

takes suits and sport coats from the walk-in closet to look

them over.  He tries on a coat, turns to the maid.

Maurice smiles at her, goes back into the closet.  Kenneth stares

at the maid, nodding slowly.

She looks to the doorway, where Buddy now starts to take a step

into the room, when Maurice comes out of the closet...

He sticks his head out of the closet.

Buddy backs out of the room.

EXT. RICHARD RIPLEY'S HOUSE - SAME

As Karen drives slowly past the house.  White Boy Bob emerges

with an armload of steaks and sets them on the front steps.

White Boy Bob hurries back into the house.

INT. RIPLEY'S LIBRARY - SAME

Ripley sits on the couch across from Foley.  He keeps looking

up at the ceiling.

Foley just looks at him.  Buddy sticks his head in the room.

INT. BEDROOM - CLOSET DOORWAY - SAME

White Boy Bob comes in as Kenneth and Maurice are getting ready

to blast the safe with the shotgun and pistol.

Maurice and his boys open fire on the safe.  The maid covers up

as bullets begin ricocheting all over the room.

EXT. HOUSE - SAME TIME

Karen sees the muzzle flashes in the upstairs window and quickly

gets out of the car.

INT. STUDY - SAME

As Buddy and Ripley look up.

INT. BEDROOM

As Maurice, Kenneth and White Boy Bob get ready to fire again.

They all turn to look at her, guns still pointing at the safe.

EXT. HOUSE - SAME

As Karen cautiously makes her way towards the front door.

INT. BEDROOM - SAME

As Maurice finally gets the safe open.  They all anxiously peer

inside.  Maurice narrows his eyes, reaches in, pulls out one of

three toupees.  He stares at it.

He looks at White Boy Bob...

INT. RIPLEY'S STUDY - SAME

As Foley leans forward in the chair now...

Ripley sags, closes his eyes.

And now Buddy takes a closer look and now we, too, see that

strewn about the bottom of the aquarium are dozens of uncut

diamonds of various sizes.

He gets up, looks at Buddy.

Foley turns to Richard as Buddy comes back into the room with a

plastic bag, starts reaching into the tank.

Foley looks at Buddy.  Now what?

Foley just looks at Ripley, who doesn't move.

Buddy and Foley slip out the other door, down the hall, just as

Maurice walks in, some of Ripley's clothes over his arm.

EXT. HOUSE - SAME

A now-freezing Karen hugs a retaining wall, watches as Foley

and Buddy emerge from the house.

AT THE VAN

As Buddy leans under the dash.  Foley looks up at the house

where we see shadows moving about in the upstairs window, hear

the faint pumping of the music.  We hear the VAN START.

Buddy straightens up, looks at Foley.

Foley looks at the diamonds in the bag.

Again Foley looks at the diamonds, then...

Foley finally hands him the bag with the diamonds in it...

Buddy just looks at him.

Foley turns to go.

Buddy hands him his gun.  Foley takes it, stuffs it in the back

of his pants, and then turns back to the house.

KAREN

As she watches Foley go back inside.  A moment later, the van

pulls out of the driveway.  Karen makes a decision, starts for

the side of the house...

INT. RIPLEY'S HOUSE - THE FOYER - SAME

Foley enters and we hear the maid scream.  Foley starts up

the stairs.

INT. RIPLEY'S STUDY

Maurice and White Boy Bob both have their guns to Ripley's head.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - SAME

Foley comes up the stairs, heads for Ripley's bedroom.  The

door is closed now...

He steps to one side, is about to reach for the knob when

suddenly the DOOR IS BLASTED OFF ITS HINGES.

INT. KITCHEN (DOWNSTAIRS) - SAME TIME

Karen comes through the door, hears the gunshot, stops cold.

INT. HALLWAY (UPSTAIRS) - SAME

As Foley steps into the doorway and we see Kenneth and the maid

bare, both sitting up in bed, Kenneth racking the shotgun, the

maid turning away from him, gathering the covers that hang off

her side of the bed...

...and coming around to throw them like a net at Kenneth as the

shotgun goes off and the covers catch fire as Foley pumps one

two three shots into Kenneth somewhere under there.

INT. RIPLEY'S STUDY - SAME

As Ripley tries to get away...

Maurice grabs him by the collar, spins him around and whips him

across the face with his gun.  He and White Boy Bob then both

hit Ripley on the head until he goes down and stays down.

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

As the maid jumps up and drags the burning covers from the bed

and sees Kenneth now, the bullet holes in his chest, staring

blankly back at him.  She then looks at Foley.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

As Foley starts out of the room and immediately hears...

Foley sees White Boy Bob at the bottom of the stairs.

Nowhere to go, Foley has to comply.

White Boy Bob starts to jog up the stairs two at a time, all

the while keeping his eyes fixed on Foley.

INT. RIPLEY'S BACK STAIRCASE - SAME

As Maurice starts up the backstairs...

...and a moment later, Karen comes out of the kitchen into the

downstairs hallway -- just missing each other.

INT. STAIRCASE - SAME

As White Boy Bob gets maybe half way up when he catches a toe

on one of the risers and pitches forward.  Stupidly, he tries

to break his fall with the elbow of his gun hand and ends up

jamming his chin down onto the muzzle of his gun which,

unfortunately for him, goes off, firing a bullet through his

head and killing him instantly.

To say the least, Foley is stunned by this freak accident.  He

stands there looking at the dead bulk on the stairs.

Foley bends down to pick up his gun and we see MAURICE COMING

UP THE BACK STAIRCASE, his gun raised, and now firing away...

Foley is forced to jump back behind a pillar as Maurice keeps

firing at him, shots ricocheting off the pillar, the railing,

the wall...

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

As Karen hugs the wall at the sound of gunshots, sees Ripley

lying on the floor of the study...

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

As we hear CLICK as the breech opens on Maurice's now empty .45

And now Foley steps out from behind the pillar and calmly bends

down, picks up his gun, Maurice still walking forward...

Foley pulls the trigger.  CLICK.  Maurice hesitates, surprised

that Foley would pull the trigger, then the two of them at the

same time rush each other, begin a messy

their spent guns as bludgeons.

INT. RIPLEY'S STUDY - SAME

As Karen carefully comes into the room, Ripley lets out a low

GROAN.  She's bending down to check him when HER PHONE RINGS.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

As Foley and Maurice grapple on the floor near the head of the

stairs.

INT. STUDY - SAME

As Karen answers her phone, checks Ripley...

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - SAME

As Foley finally shoves Maurice down the stairs.  Maurice rolls

down a few steps, right over White Boy Bob, as...

Foley gets up, runs back to the bedroom.

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

As Foley enters, goes straight to Kenneth's body, begins

searching for the shotgun (lifting the covers, turning over

the body, etc) with no success...

INT. STAIRWELL - SAME

As Maurice attempts to prise the gun out from under the dead bulk

of White Boy Bob.

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

As Foley, exasperated, stands back up...

Foley looks to where Midge stands -- now back in her bathrobe,

but more importantly, clutching the shotgun.  Foley crosses and

takes it from her, begins to stride out of the room, when --

Foley just looks at her.

INT. STAIRWELL - SAME

As Maurice finally rolls White Boy Bob over, grabs the gun...

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

As Foley sticks his hand in Kenneth's coveralls, comes out with

a shell, loads the gun, snaps it shut...

INT. STAIRWELL - SAME

As Maurice cocks the pistol, takes a step up the stairs...

Maurice spins around, points his gun down at Karen, now standing

in the foyer, her own gun pointing up at him...

EXT. HOUSE - SAME TIME

As Raymond Cruz and several green-and-whites arrive...

INT. RIPLEY'S BEDROOM - SAME

As Jack, about to exit, stops cold as he HEARS TWO GUNSHOTS,

then a BODY FALL.

He stands still.  Not sure who was just shot.  After a long moment,

we then hear:

He sees Midge looking at him, closes his eyes, sags against the

wall.

INT. FOYER - SAME

As Foley steps into the hallway, his ski mask now pulled down

over his face.  He holds Kenneth's shotgun in one hand and his

pistol in another.

Foley brings up the pistol and the shotgun.  AND NOW WE HEAR

THE SIRENS...

He raises the guns hip-high and we hear sounds behind Karen,

but she's quick to raise her hand, though she doesn't turn or

look around.

They stand there staring at each other.

He raises the guns.  She sadly shakes her head.

She fires and he falls to the staircase, dropping the guns,

grabbing hold of his right thigh.  And now Cruz and several

other cops enter... Karen motions them to stop...

She goes up the staircase to where Foley is lying and gently

lifts the ski mask and looks at his sad eyes.

She glances about, makes sure no one can hear, then leans closer

to him.

Foley looks like he's in pain.  He watches as she walks back

down the stairs.  As a couple of uniform cops rush past her and

pick up Foley, a shaky Ripley staggers into the foyer.

She comes running down the stairs into his arms.  They embrace.

He looks at Foley over her shoulder...

Foley just looks at him.

EXT. BUSY STREET - NIGHT

As Buddy pulls the van into an alley.  He jumps out, jogs back

to the street and hails a cab...

INT. CAB - SAME

Buddy suddenly gets in, bangs on the bulletproof glass.

The cab pulls away.  Buddy glances up front, then pulls the

Ziploc bag from his coat and holds it up.  There's a bit of

water in along with the diamonds.  A tiny fish swims in the

water.  Something about this makes Buddy smile as we...

EXT. KAREN'S HOTEL - MORNING

The sun is out.  The sky is clear.

INT. KAREN'S HOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Karen on the phone.  Her suitcase on the bed.

INT. MARSHALL SISCO'S SITTING ROOM - SAME

Marshall on the phone...

Karen hangs up, stares thoughtfully out the window.

INT. PRISON CELL - DAY

Where Foley stands staring out of his window.

As Foley turns around and faces a FEDERAL MARSHAL in the doorway,

we see that Foley's hands and feet are shackled.

INT/EXT. PRISON STATION GARAGE - DAY

The Marshal leads Foley from the building to where a black

government van waits.  The Marshal helps Foley inside.

INT/EXT. VAN - SAME

As Foley sits down, stares at the floor.  He looks depressed.

We hear the front door open, then close.

He looks to where Karen looks at him through a steel grate that

separates the front from the back.

She pushes A ZIPPO THROUGH the grate.

Before Foley can say anything, the back door is opened once

more and the Marshal helps ANOTHER PRISONER -- a black man with

a shaved head -- into the back of the van.

An annoyed Foley stares at the guy as the marshal shuts the

door then gets in up front with Karen.

Foley glances at her, then turns back to Heiira Henry and

considers the guy; a smile on Foley's face, his spirits a little

higher than when he first sat down, as we then...

CUT TO BLACK.

