EXT. FARMLAND - DAWN

IN BLACK AND WHITE, A black 1930s Cadillac speeds down

the only visible road amidst endless plains of farmland.

The road curves sharply ahead - the car accelerates.

Ignoring the turn, the Caddy drives directly off the road

and through a massive field of emptiness.

The car abruptly stops in the middle of the vacant field.

GENERAL BRAT (58, a patch covers one of his eyes) and

AGENT BLACK SUIT (an agent in a black suit) step out of

the car.

Although there is clearly nothing in sight for miles, the

General scans his surroundings with concern.

TITLE CARD UP: THE PAST

Agent Black Suit crouches down and pulls open a METAL

HATCH in the ground. Both men walk down the hatch and

into the earth.

INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY - MOMENTS LATER

They descend a metal staircase and walk with great

urgency down a narrow corridor. The hallway spills into a

hauntingly huge metal room with a lone SCIENTIST standing

in the middle. The Scientist immediately begins leading

them across the room.

INT. OBSERVATION LAB - CONTINUOUS

The three men enter a large room divided by a one-way

mirror.

On their side, numerous SCIENTISTS, utilizing several

archaic devices, are busy at work monitoring the subject

on the other side of the mirror.

The subject: PRIVATE MILLER (22, naive and dutiful) sits

at a small table with a microphone on it. Miller raises

his hand, REVEALING a smoldering JOINT.

He takes a long and awkward hit from the joint and bursts

into a coughing fit.

The scientists begin to scribble profusely as their

devices blink manically. General Brat and Agent Black

Suit exchange a concerned look. The General lights a

cigarette as the Scientist steps up to a small microphone

in the corner.

His voice booms through large speakers on Miller's side

of the room. Miller leans towards the microphone.

The scientists scribble madly. One of them mumbles into

General Brat's ear.

A door opens beside Private Miller and an AGENT steps out

wearing an intricate uniform that resembles an old

fashioned diving suit, an air hose leading out the door

that he came from. He slowly walks toward the Private,

who looks at him in shock.

The Agent in the strange suit reaches the private and

holds a lighter up to the joint.

Miller pulls at the joint until it is lit again. The

Agent exits the room.

General Brat scowls.

Instantly, the scientists start packing up their

equipment. Staring at Miller, General Brat grabs a RED

PHONE and dials. Two Agents in the scuba-like suits

emerge from behind Miller and start aggressively dragging

him away.

He hangs up the phone.

CUT TO BLACK.

TITLE CARD UP: THE PRESENT

INT. DALE'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

DALE DENTON (late 20s, out of shape, slightly unkempt)

looks out of place in his black suit as he drives he sits

in his cluttered and worn old lady car. He smokes a joint

while listening to talk radio.

We see that Dale has a wireless ear piece in.

Dale puts away his phone and pulls up in front of a nice

house.

EXT. FRONT DOOR - MOMENTS LATER

Dale, wearing a name tag that reads "Garth", holding a

clip board and wearing a greenpeace hat, knocks

repeatedly on the door. A woman cautiously answers the

door.

Dale shoves an envelope into her hand.

Dale dashes back to his car as the upset woman starts to

open the envelope.

INT. DALE'S CAR - SOON AFTER

Dale is driving and smoking a joint. He looks at his

check list - it is a list of people he served that day.

He's only got a few left. He listens to a different talk

radio dj while playing music from a tiny iPod boom box

that sits in his passenger seat.

His iPod starts playing HOT STEPPA by INI KAMOZE.

Dale turns down the talk radio and puffs away at his

joint; he enthusiastically dances in his car while

singing along.

INT. OFFICE BUILDING - LATER

Dale, wearing a Zerox hat, walks into the building.

The secretary nods and goes back to her work. Dale

casually waltzes down the office halls looking at the

names on the doors. He glances down at his clipboard, it

read: Walter Tandum.

He finds the office and knocks on the door.

Dale enters to see Walter, a 40 year old accountant,

seated at his desk.

Dale drops a blue envelope on Walter's desk.

Dale turns and walks away. As he does, he notices a small

kitchen. He enters and is delighted at the array of

snacks and beverages. He helps himself.

INT. DALE'S CAR - LATER

Dale is parked at a look-out enjoying the food, smoking

weed and has his ear piece in.

EXT. HOSPITAL - LATER

Dale gets out of his car, followed by some plumes of

smoke, and goes to his trunk. He chuckles as he takes out

a lab coat and walks towards the hospital.

INT. HOSPITAL - SOON AFTER

Dale, looking very professional in his lab coat, rushes

to reception.

The receptionist immediately picks up the phone.

INT. HOSPITAL - MOMENTS LATER

DR. TERRENCE runs towards reception, where Dale is still

waiting.

INT. DALE'S CAR - LATER

Dale hits a pipe. It is clear he strongly disagrees with

what the DJ is saying.

We see his ear piece and hear that he is on hold.

EXT. HOTEL - VALET

Dale, wearing a chauffeur hat, stands by the main

entrance holding a sign that reads: JOSH CORBER. A man

walks out of the hotel and, seeing the sign, approaches

Dale.

Dale hands him a BLUE ENVELOPE.

Dale walks away. CORBER opens the envelope and reads it.

Dale completely ignores Corber as he dumps the sign and

walks out of the airport. Then, a huge smile comes across

his face. He has noticed a nearby Burger King.

He happily walks toward the food.

INT - DALE'S CAR - DAY

Dale sits in his car   outside a high school. An array of

Burger King wrappers   surrounds him as he rolls a joint

with the last of his   weed on top of a Batman comic. He

lights the joint and   turns on the radio.

Dale turns off the radio, takes one last haul, and then

snubs out the joint. He then pulls out a small leather

kit and sifts through it's contents: handi-wipes, hand

sanitizer, a little vial of cologne, Visine, mouthwash

and breath mints.

Dale vigorously wipes his hands, face, and mouth with wet

naps and then starts futilely attempting to put visine in

his blazing red eyes. Frustrated, he squirts Visine all

over his finger tips and simply rubs them into his eyes.

He uses the mouthwash, chews up a mint, dabs on some

cologne, and then gets out of the car.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - CONTINUOUS

Dale walks towards the school.

Dale turns to see his attractive 19 year old girlfriend,

ANGIE ANDERSON, walking towards him with her group of

friends. She kisses him.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL - SOON AFTER

Dale and Angie walk hand in hand towards the locker.

Dale and Angie turn to see a TEACHER, a guy about the

same age as Dale.

Mr. Edwards looks at Dale, then shoots Angie a confused

look.

Dale doesn't know what to make of Mr. Edwards comments

and looks.

Then, four HANDSOME AND FIT STUDENTS walk by.

Angie smiles at the guys. Dale doesn't like how all this

is going down.

INT. DALE'S CAR - MOMENTS LATER

Dale and Angie sit in the parked car making out.

They share a long kiss, and Angie gets out of the car.

Dale watches her walk away, then whips out his cell phone

and hits speed dial.

INT. SAUL'S APARTMENT - LATER

SAUL SILVER is constructing a CROSS-SHAPED JOINT (two

joints that intersect one another). Pot and paraphernalia

are scattered all over the coffee table. A large

"Scarface" movie poster hangs on the wall. There is a

knock at the door and Dale enters.

Dale awkwardly sits down on the other side of the couch.

Saul pulls out a big bag of weed. He places it on the

coffee table as though it was his child. He pulls out a

large bud.

Dale takes the weed and looks at it. It looks

spectacular. Bright red hairs and large crystals, huge

purple and blue leaves - just spectacular! Dale smells it

and is taken aback.

Saul walks into another room. Dale looks around

anxiously; he clearly wants to go.

A moment later, Saul comes back into the room and sits

down. Dale notices that he didn't bring anything back

from the other room. Saul notices Dale looking at him

strangely.

Saul hustles into the other room.

Dale checks his watch and then looks at the door;

suddenly, something catches his eye - it's the cross-

joint Saul was constructing.

Saul comes back in and puts a small electronic scale on

the coffee table.

Saul chuckles at his joke as he places some weed on the

scale.

Saul puts Dale's weed in a baggie.

Dale hands Saul some money and Saul gives him his weed.

Dale lingers for a moment.

Dale gets up and heads to the door.

Dale turns around. He clearly wants to smoke it, but he

tries to play it cool.

Dale sits back down on the couch, giddy as a schoolgirl.

Saul gathers three lighters from the coffee table.

Dale nods and they light the joint. Saul tokes hard;

plumes of smoke fill the air as he bursts into a COUGHING

FIT.

Dale takes the joint and hits it, exploding into a

coughing fit.

Saul takes a toke. Dale coughs HARDER and HARDER. He

seems like he might throw up.

Saul passes Dale the joint, obliviously dropping ash all

over his suit. Slightly agitated, Dale brushes it off.

Saul looks confused.

Dale takes a big hit from the joint.

They both revel in the thought.

Dale passes the join to Saul.

Saul laughs at this.

Dale passes Saul the joint.

Saul passes Dale the joint.

Dale pulls a blue envelope out of his pocket.

Saul points to his Scarface poster. The joint ends. After

a few moments it seems as though their ability to have a

conversation burnt out with the joint. They sit in

awkward silence. Dale gets up.

They slap each other five and Dale exits. Saul turns on

the TV. Saved By the Bell is on. It makes Saul chuckle.

INT. DALE'S CAR - NIGHT

Dale cruises down side streets and locates Ted's house.

It is a large well-to-do home. Having difficulties, Dale

parks in between two cars across the street. He turns off

the engine and starts smoking a joint. SUDDENLY - FLASH!

Two head lights appear up the street. Holy shit! It's a

COP CAR!

He sits still, holding the joint between his legs as the

cop car drives past and...parks a few cars down! The

FEMALE COP walks up the block - TOWARDS DALE'S CAR!

Fortunately,   the COP crosses the street and walks towards

Ted's house.   Confused, Dale watches as she is let in.

Dale waits a   moment and then re-lights the joint. He

tries to see   into Ted's house as he takes a MASSIVE TOKE.

BANG! A SILENCE SHATTERING BLAST comes from Ted's house.

Dale holds the toke in and tries to keep quiet as he

focuses on the large front window. SUDDENLY, the drapes

are torn down by an ASIAN MAN as he falls forwards and

crashes through the front window!

Dale watches in horror as a LARGE GREY-HAIRED MAN and the

Female Cop step forward and shoot the Asian man! BLAM!

BLAM! Blood splatters!

Dale starts COUGHING UNCONTROLLABLY! He starts the car

and, in a panicked fit, tries to pull out. CRASH!!! He

smashes directly into the car in front of him! He flicks

the roach out onto the grass and slams the car in reverse

- CRUNCH!!! He backs into the car behind him! Still

hacking his lungs out, Dale drives away!

The Grey-Haired Man and the Female Cop sprint out of the

house in time to see Dale's distant tail lights vanish

into the darkness. Something catches the Grey-Haired

Man's eye - a trail of smoke rising from the grass. He

lowers his blood-stained hand and picks up...DALE'S

ROACH! He brings it to his nose and sniffs, then rips

open the paper and examines the weed closely.

INT. SAUL'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

Saul is laying on his couch watching Saved By the Bell,

laughing so hard that he's crying.

Suddenly, the BUZZER sounds repeatedly.

He grudgingly walks to the intercom and presses talk.

He presses listen.

Saul casually presses the talk button.

He smiles to himself, then presses listen.

Annoyed, Saul buzzes him in and unlocks the door.

A moment later, Dale, completely freaking out, BURSTS

through the door and SLAMS it shut.

Saul jumps to his feet.

Saul dashes to the window and peeks out.

Dale shakes his head, on the verge of tears. Saul shrugs,

sits back down, then picks up his joint and re-lites it.

Saul passes Dale the joint. Dale takes the joint and

frantically smokes as he paces.

Dale stops pacing and stares at Saul. He then looks down

at the joint of pineapple weed. Saul notices wheels

turning in Dale's head.

Dale continues staring at the joint.

Saul thinks for a moment.

Finally, Saul understands.

He SPRINGS to his feet and BOLTS for the door.

Dale grabs Saul and stops him.

Saul grabs his bag of weed and shoves it in his backpack.

They run for the door.

INT. SAUL'S APARTMENT HALLWAY - MOMENTS LATER

Saul and Dale run to the elevator and frantically press

the button, terrified for their lives.

Saul runs back to his apartment, leaving Dale alone and

frightened. Saul BURSTS back out of his apartment holding

his cell.

They scramble towards the distant stairwell. Almost at

the door, they hear the DING of the elevator arriving.

They DASH back to the elevator. Dale shoves his arm

between the doors and they hop in. Saul rapidly presses

the LOBBY button as the doors shut. They're both on the

verge of hyperventilating.

Oh my god!!!                  Ahhh!!!

The doors OPEN! There's no one there. The doors close.

The elevator stops at the lobby and the doors open, they

step out, bumping into two rough looking guys.

Dale and Saul quickly leave as the bikers enter the

elevator.

INT. SAUL'S APARTMENT - MOMENTS LATER

The rough looking guys, BUDLOFSKY and MATHESON, kick in

Saul's door and dash into the room, guns drawn. Matheson

spots a smoldering joint in the ashtray.

Budlofsky whips out his cell and hits speed dial.

INT. DALE'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

Dale peels out of his spot and down the road.

Saul checks behind them.

While Dale gets out his wallet, Saul opens Dale's change

tray. It's full of roaches.

A tense beat.

EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS

The car is parked on a small dirt path in the moon-lit

woods. Dale paces back and forth as Saul walks over.

Saul stares at Dale, who doesn't know how to respond.

Pleased, Saul pats Dale on the back.

Saul takes his cell phone out and presses speed dial. We

hear someone pick up.

Red sounds nervous.

Dale waves his hands in front of Saul's face.

Saul looks around the dark forest.

Dale nods.

Saul gives Dale the thumbs up.

Saul hangs up the cell.

INT. RED'S APARTMENT - MAIN ROOM - CONTINUOUS

RED, 30, stalky and short, sits between the BUDLOFSKY and

MATHESON

This worries the thugs.

EXT. FOREST - CONTINUOUS

Saul lights a joint and starts smoking. He passes it to

Dale. Dale puffs. They look around at their expansive,

dark surroundings and immediately become overwhelmed with

paranoia. Saul notices a shooting star zip across the sky

as Dale takes out his cell phone.

As Dale dials, Saul, paranoid from the pot, looks at his

cell phone. He takes another hit, and then looks up to

the sky again. He looks back at Dale's phone. Dale starts

to walk off.

Saul snubs out the joint and runs over to Dale.

Dale stares at Saul, then flips open his phone -  beep

Dale takes a hit as he looks up to the sky. Just then, a

loud rumbling noise is heard.

The rumbling gets louder.

The noise builds to a deafening crescendo as the guys

dive behind a tree stump. A moment later, a JUMBO JET

buzzes overhead, heading towards the nearby airport. Dale

and Saul pop up.

Dale looks at his phone, which is a new, expensive Razor.

Dale sighs, then SMASHES his phone on a rock. Saul looks

at Dale, then HURLS his phone into the woods as hard as

he can, sending it SAILING into the FOREST.

Dale tosses the joint aside.

Saul points out a group of trees about 30 feet away.

They look into the scary dark depths of the woods. Both

of them are clearly terrified.

Horrified, they cautiously inch into the forest.

They nervously walk on.

They inch forward, nervous.

They both freeze.

Saul listens.

SUDDENLY, Saul SPRINTS off into the darkness!

Dale looks in horror as Saul vanishes amongst the trees.

Dale hears a loud THUD.

Scared for his life, he SPRINTS in the opposite

direction! He weaves in between the trees, avoids some

rocks and tree roots, stumbles on some loose dirt, then

SLAMS half his body against a tree and FALLS HARD.

ANGLE ON: SAUL

Saul gets up, covered in dirt. Panting, he looks around

the forest and sees no one. He thinks he hears something

and SPRINTS off! WHAM! He trips on a tree root and SLAMS

into the ground.

ANGLE ON: DALE

Dale stumbles to his feet while futilely trying to wipe

the dirt off his suit.

Saul hears Dale and whips around, breaking a twig -

Dale looks towards the noise, then SPRINTS off.

Saul hears someone and BOLTS in the opposite direction.

Like chickens with their heads cut off, they both

scramble through the woods trying to evade their

imaginary enemies.

Dale spots his car! He jumps in and SLAMS the door shut.

He's about to turn the ignition, but stops. Panting and

wheezing, he sinks into his seat.

BAM! Something slams into the car.

Dale sees Saul BANGING against the passenger side door.

Dale unlocks the car and Saul JUMPS in.

A moment of silence. They both look around. There is

clearly nothing out there. Dale turns on the car. Talk

radio comes on.

Dale and Saul start rolling separate joints.

INT. DALE'S CAR - THE NEXT DAY

Dale slowly wakes up. He stretches, and then shakes Saul.

Saul opens his eyes and realizes where he is.

Saul brings his wrist up close to his eyes.

Saul stares at his watch, confused.

Saul looks outside towards the sun.

Dale digs in his pockets for the keys.

Dale notices the keys are in the ignition.

He turns the keys. NOTHING. He tries again. NOTHING.

He tries twice more, but nothing happens.

He tries again.

Dale shoots Saul an angry look.

Frustrated, Dale tries to gather his thoughts.

Dale opens his door and hops out.

MONTAGE:

- Dale and Saul walk down a seemingly unused forest road,

each smoking their own joint.

- Saul points out a giant caterpillar crawling on a leaf.

Dale is grossed out. Saul pokes the caterpillar and then

blows weed smoke onto it.

- They emerge at the highway and try to hitch a ride.

- Dale notices Saul has his thumb sticking out of his

zipper.

Dale doesn't laugh.

- Bored and tired, they wait.   Saul lights a joint. Dale

notices. Saul shifts his body   away from Dale. Just then,

an eighteen wheeler slows for   them. Saul snubs out the

freshly lit joint and puts it   in his pocket.

EXT. RED'S HOUSE - LATER

Dale and Saul get out of the eighteen wheeler.

Saul shuts the door and he and Dale run towards Red's

house - a small, dilapidated place in a rundown part of

town. Exhausted, Dale and Saul reach Red's door. Saul

knocks.

Red opens the door. He has a SPLIT LIP and has clearly

been CRYING. He tries to act normal. Dale immediately

suspects something is up.

Red ushers them in and shuts the door.

Red notices their dirty clothes.

Dale notices Red quivering as he lights a cigarette and

becomes increasingly suspicious.

Saul finally notices Red's dishevelled appearance.

Saul. Ask him.

Okay, Captain Demando. Can you just chill

out, maybe? So, Red. I gotta ask-

Okay, first of all, stop. What's this all

about? That's what I want to know.

Alright. Well, Dale's a servant for

protest lawyers, and-

Whoa, whoa! Saul, I don't think...well,

Red, I don't mean to be rude but I don't

think we should tell you any more than

you need to know.

Fuck that, Dale. This is my house, I

deserve to know.

Dude! Let's just tell him. It is his

house.

Look. Red, I just don't want to pull you

into the shit we're in. It's just

trouble.

Don't be weird about this. If he wants

trouble, it's his right to have it.

Whoa! Whoa! I don't want trouble.

That's why we only need to clarify one

thing - nobody's called about Saul or the

pineapple express or anything like that?

No one. Nada.

Dale doesn't seem convinced. Saul picks up Red's huge

bong and starts to pack a bit of Red's weed into it.

Saul sits down and picks up a lighter as Red walks

towards the phone. Dale watches Red, suspicious of his

odd behavior. Red begins to dial...

SMACK! Dale knocks the phone out of Red's hand.

Saul jumps up. Dale SNATCHES the phone and backs up.

Without warning, Red grabs a LARGE ASHTRAY filled with

cigarette butts and WHIPS it at Dale. BAM! It smashes him

in the head!!!

Ash EXPLODES everywhere as Dale drops the phone and

clutches his head.

Red approaches the cowering Dale. Saul intercedes.

Red PUNCHES Saul in the face! Saul SCREAMS and drops to

the ground.

Dale snatches the phone and scurries into the bathroom,

slamming the door behind him.

INT. RED'S BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Disoriented, Dale scans the small bathroom. Saul and Red

can be heard fighting outside.

A loud CRASH is heard from the other room.

Dale throws the phone in the toilet bowl and smacks down

the seat. He runs back to help Saul.

INT. RED'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Red is BEATING the shit out of Saul.

Saul manages to stand up when Red boots him in the BALLS!

He SHRIEKS and stumbles backwards. Dale dashes into the

room and LEAPS onto Red's back. Red wobbles forward, then

starts RUNNING BACKWARDS. He trips on his coffee table

and CRASHES Dale through it, landing on top of him. Red

gets up, sprints into the bathroom and locks the door.

With great effort, Dale and Saul manage to get up.

INT. RED'S APARTMENT/BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Frantically searching for the phone, Red flips the toilet

seat up and grabs it. He begins to dial as Dale and Saul

sprint down the hall.

Just as Red is about to finish dialing, Dale and Saul

CRASH into the bathroom door! They knock it completely

off it's hinges, SLAMMING it directly into Red! The phone

flies into the bathtub.

Saul jumps into the bathtub and begins STOMPING the

phone. Dale continuously SLAMS his body against the door

in an attempt to keep Red pinned down.

Red stops struggling and tries to catch his breath. Dale

kneels on top of the door, keeping him pinned.

In an impressive show of strength, Red shoves the door

off him, knocking Dale aside. He runs.

INT. RED'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Saul chases Red and TACKLES him into a wall. Dale follows

seconds later, and notices Red's LARGE GLASS BONG. He

looks back to see Saul getting pummelled.

Dale grabs the bong and swings around - CRASH!!! It

shatters on the back of Red's head.

Red falls to the ground moaning, blood dripping from his

head. Dale and Saul stand over him, out of breath,

bruised and battered.

Dale, lost in thought, starts to seriously freak out.

Dale stares at the almost motionless Red.

Dale, trying to act tough, grabs Red by the collar.

Red looks to Saul for sympathy.

Dale pulls Saul aside.

Dale raises his fist.

Red cringes as Dale softly "punches" his gut. It doesn't

hurt him.

Dale takes a deep breathe and raises his fist.

Dale grabs a potted plant.

Dale swings the plant back to strike Red. The pot flies

off the plant and Dale smashes the dirt covered roots of

the plant against Red's face.

Dale raises his fist.

Dale and Saul exchange very worried looks.

Dale swings the PLANT upwards, prepared to strike Red

again.

Dale and Saul exchange an even more worried look.

Saul runs off. Dale puts on Saul's backpack and looks at

the battered Red moaning on the floor.

Dale pulls Red's hands behind his back. Saul is picking

at the tape.

Saul rips open the DUCT TAPE. He quickly BINDS Red's

hands and feet. SUDDENLY, there's a KNOCK at the door.

They stop, silent. KNOCK. KNOCK. KNOCK. Red starts

thrashing and trying to scream.

KNOCK! KNOCK!

Frozen in terror, they don't know what to do.

KNOCK! KNOCK! KNOCK!

Red frantically tries to wriggle out of his bonds while

Saul leads Dale out the back door. SUDDENLY, the door is

KICKED open! Budlofsky and Matheson enter, guns drawn.

They see Red.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Dale and Saul run like hell. Saul spots a dumpster.

Saul jumps into the dumpster.

Saul hops out of the dumpster and follows Dale.

INT. RED'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Budlofsky dashes back into the apartment.

Matheson stands over top of Red, talking to Ted on the

phone.

Matheson pulls out a gun and shoots Red in the gut.

INT. TED'S LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

TED (the big grey-haired guy) puts his portable phone

back in its charger.

The living room windows are covered by black sheets.

Workers are busy scrubbing blood stains off the floor and

walls. The dead Asian man lies on top of bubble-wrap in

the corner.

Ted walks into the kitchen where CAROL BRAZIER (female

cop from the murder, in full uniform, mid-30s) is playing

with her gun.

Carol holsters her gun.

EXT. TED'S HOUSE - STREET - CONTINUOUS

Inside an Escalade with tinted   windows sit two

frightening looking Asian men.   They have earphones on and

an eavesdropping tool aimed at   Ted's house. They hear

every word. One of them writes   down info in Korean.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Dale and Saul are still running and are unbelievably

exhausted.

Dale hails a cab.

INT. DALE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Dale's apartment door BURSTS open. Budlofsky and Matheson

enter, guns drawn. They start searching the apartment.

Budlofsky presses a button on the ANSWERING MACHINE.

Matheson walks to the fridge and yanks off a NOTE.

Budlofsky looks at the note:

" - Memorize Angie's New Cell: 366-3666 - Go get weed - "

EXT. OUTSIDE ANGIE'S HOUSE - SOON AFTER

Dale and Saul get out of the cab in a pleasant

neighborhood. Saul begrudgingly pays the driver. They

walk towards Angie's house.

Dale runs up to the front door and frantically knocks.

Angie answers the door.

INT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Dale dashes in.

Angie opens the door with a smile, the phone in hand. Her

attention is towards the phone conversation she is

having. Dale enters her apartment.

INT. ANGIE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

Dale freezes in horror: ANGIE'S PARENTS (SHANNON and

ROBERT) are pleasantly eating at the dining room table.

Robert sees that Dale is DIRTY, DISHEVELLED, BRUISED and

BATTERED.

Robert and Shannon exchange worried looks.

Dale walks to Robert and extends his DIRTY, BLOODY HAND.

Robert smugly declines Dale's hand shake.

Dale starts gathering all their jackets and shoes.

The Anderson's stare at him dumbfounded. Robert gets up

and stands tall.

They stare at Dale as though he were crazy.

EXT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Saul sees a car nearing. He sees Budlofsky and Matheson

are in it.

He runs like hell towards Angie's.

INT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Angie and her parents try to make sense of what Dale is

saying.

Robert runs up the stairs to his bedroom.

Suddenly, Saul bursts through the front door in a

panicked frenzy.

Angie grabs a fork off the table and stabs it into Saul's

shoulder.

Saul yanks the fork out and tosses it on the ground.

Then - Robert appears at the top of the stairs with his

gun. He sees Saul bleeding and SCREAMS. BLAM! He fires at

Saul!

EXT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Budlofsky and Matheson are walking towards the front door

when they hear the gunshot and dive behind some bushes.

BANG! Blasts through the front door and almost hits them!

INT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Everyone is in shock. Saul frantically pats himself down

to see if he got hit.

Dale looks at the pandemonium as everyone tries to be

heard.

Dale and Saul lead Angie and her parents towards the back

door.

EXT. ANGIE'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Budlofsky and Matheson are now at the front door. They've

each got a gun drawn and are preparing to burst in.

Budlofsky is loading his bullet cartridge.

Budlofsky puts in the last few bullets.

Budlofsky cocks his gun and nods at Matheson.

INT. ANGIE'S APARTMENT - CONTINUOUS

BAM! They kick open the doors and run into her house. No

one is there. Budlofsky cautiously walks over to the

table and touches the food. It's still warm. Matheson

bends down and picks up a bloody fork.

INT. GARAGE - CONTINUOUS

Dale, Angie, her parents, and Saul burst into the garage.

Robert is fumbling with the keys. He manages to open the

car. Saul pulls up his shirt to look at the stab wound.

The Andersons get in the car.

Angie gets in the car. Dale pecks her on the lips.

Beat.

Angie gets in the car. Dale pecks her on the lips.

She shuts her door and the Anderson's pull out. Dale

watches them depart with great concern.

They start to sprint.

INT. TED'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Ted and Carol are in mid-discussion, and rather

distraught at that. Behind them two henchmen take the

dead Asian man's body out the back door.

Ted slams his fist on a table. He ponders.

INT. CHEUNG'S MANSION - MOMENTS LATER

Cheung, the leader of the Asians, has a lavish mansion

which is covered in ornate decorations and expensive

merchandise. It is immaculately clean and organized.

Several armed men with earpieces stand in strategic

locations throughout the house. Cheung is reading a

Korean book alone in his study. The phone rings and he

picks it up.

Cheung sits up, shocked to have his opponent calling him.

He snaps his fingers and two guards run in. He covers the

phone.

He uncovers the receiver.

We stay on Cheung. He hails another guard.

He turns to a picture of the Asian Ted killed earlier.

EXT. PARK - NIGHT

Dale and Saul are sitting in the branches of a tree. Fast

food wrappers lie scattered. Saul is rolling a joint.

Saul passes it to Dale, who lights it. Dale takes another

puff and starts to seriously relax. A smile creeps across

his face as he passes the joint to Saul.

Saul takes a puff.

Saul passes the joint to Dale.

Saul passes the joint to Dale.

Dale passes Saul the joint.

Saul rubs the roach out in the dirt.

Saul rubs his balls again.

EXT. CRACKHEAD PARK - NIGHT

There are several tarp-houses set up, garbage all over,

and crazy/dangerous homeless people milling about the

park. A deranged looking homeless man walks over to

another one and starts pissing on his leg. They begin

fist fighting. Suddenly, a half eaten hamburger hits Dale

in the face and a bag lady comes up to Saul and starts

poking him.

The bag lady runs off.

EXT. HIGH SCHOOL - LUNCHTIME - THE NEXT DAY

At the same high school Angie goes to, Dale and Saul walk

up to four thirteen year old students. (DESMOND, WALT,

ACK and BLAKE)

EXT. ALLEY BEHIND A CONVIENANCE STORE - MOMENTS LATER

Dale and the four kids all laugh hysterically as Saul

marches around pretending to be Godzilla, blasting weed

smoke out of his nose and mouth as though it was fire.

Saul passes Ack the joint. He takes a puff and starts

coughing.

Pineapple express. They said it, like,

eight times, you fucking `tard.

Oh, so sorry if I-

Come on, man. Puff, puff, pass.

You know, I went here for a year. Kicked

me out for having a swiss army knife.

Everyone has a swiss army knife!

I got like, thirty for my Bar Mitzvah.

My Bar Mitzvah sucked.

I touched Jessica Lubell's tit at your

Bar Mitzvah.

You touched a tit when you were twelve?

Lubell? Are you joking? Those are the

finest tats in the grade!

Fuck that, dude. Angie in 12th grade has,

like, the sweetest tits ever.

Hey!

What? You know her?

Yeah. She's my girlfriend.

Whoa. You're that dude. You lucky fucker.

Blake passes the joint to Dale.

The kids all nod in agreement.

Saul pulls out his impressive bag of weed. The kids GASP.

The kids cheer as Desmond takes two BIG handfuls.

They pay Dale and take their weed. Happy as hell, they

run off, stuffing HANDFULS OF WEED into their pockets.

Dale holds the un-lit joint as Saul takes the pot and the

money.

Saul laughs as he puts on his backpack and walks around

the corner. Dale re-lights the remaining roach and

casually smokes. He blows some smoke rings, coughs a bit,

stretches; for a few moments, looking completely relaxed,

but then-

A COP CAR screeches to a halt right in front of Dale! A

female POLICE LIAISON OFFICER (who is not Carol) gets out

of the car. Dale freezes in horror.

She walks towards Dale. He seems prepared to run, but she

places her hand on a can of pepper spray.

She cuffs Dale's hands behind him!

Police Liaison takes the large joint out of Dale's hand.

She throws it on the ground and smears it around with her

foot.

She pats him down, finding only his wallet. The Police

Liaison sees he only has nine dollars. She pulls out his

DRIVER'S LICENSE.

She walks towards her car as Dale sits on the ground.

ANGLE ON: Saul

Saul merrily turns into the alley holding TWO RED

SLURPEES, when he jumps back in terror! He sees the cop

car up the alley. He ducks back behind the corner.

ANGLE ON: Dale and the Police Liaison

She looks at her car computer. The screen reads:

DALE DENTON: OUTSTANDING WARRANT - DOUBLE HIT AND RUN.

She looks back at Dale and types into her computer.

INT. CAROL'S COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

We see Carol (who is in fact Ted's evil accomplice)

speeding down the road. Her police computer beeps. She

looks at the screen.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

The Police Liaison stuffs Dale in the back of her squad

car.

A look of crippling horror comes across Dale's face as

she throws him in the back seat and slams his door shut.

ANGLE ON: Saul

He peaks down the alley and sees Dale in the back of the

car and the FEMALE Police Liaison getting in the front.

The car slowly makes a three point turn.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

The Police Liaison ignores Dale.

The Police Liaison ponders as she finishes her three

point turn and drives toward the exit of the alley.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Saul peeks out and sees the approaching cop car. He looks

at the two red slurpees and thinks, then suddenly jumps

out and THROWS himself onto the hood of the cop car!

The Police Liaison and Dale see a body SLAM against the

car and RED LIQUID SPLATTER everywhere, covering the

windshield. They SCREAM.

WHAM! In the impact, we clearly see Saul's BALLS getting

ROCKED on the car! The Police Liaison slams on the

brakes, causing Dale to SMASH into the metal cage.

She puts the car in park. As the Police Liaison gets out

of her car, Saul can be seen crawling around the back of

the vehicle, clutching his testicles. The frightened

Police Liaison looks at the windshield.

She notices the two slurpee cups on the ground and

quickly turns around. She sees Saul jumping into the

drivers seat.

Saul sees a SHOTGUN beside the passenger seat. The Police

Liaison reaches for her GUN!

Saul slams the car into reverse! He speeds backwards up

the alley as the Police Liaison runs after them - GUN

DRAWN!

Suddenly, Carol (the cop from Ted's house) whips her COP

CAR into the alley! WHAM!!! It smashes into the rear of

their car! Dale turns around and establishes eye contact

with the stunned Carol.

Saul slams down the gas! Through the slurpee covered

window Saul sees the Police Liaison rushing towards them.

The Police Liaison raises her gun.

NOOOO!!!                      AAAAH!!!

BLAM! She fires and the bullet punches through the

windshield! The Police Liaison dives to the side as they

zoom past her! They burst out of the alley. A moment

later, Carol follows, in hot pursuit.

I/E. DALE AN SAUL'S STOLEN COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

The car weaves through traffic.

Saul mindlessly starts grasping at switches in the car.

He finally turns on the wipers, which wipe away the

slurpee and reveal that the window is so badly cracked he

still can't see through it. Carol's car emerges right

behind them.

Saul, with great effort, keeps one foot on the pedals

and, with all his might, kicks his other leg through the

front window. His leg PUNCHES straight through the glass,

but he can't pull it back in!

Suddenly, their car gets jerked to the side.

Carol is ramming them from behind.

Saul yanks at his leg and manages to wriggle it out of

the hole. He begins to accelerate and realizes he can see

where he's going through the hole.

Saul bumps over the curb and cuts through a LARGE PARK.

Carol is right behind them.

Saul thinks hard, then buckles his seat belt.

Dale does what little he can to brace himself. Saul SLAMS

on the breaks. Carol sees Saul screeching to a halt and

slams on her breaks. She grunts and whips out her GUN.

Both cars come to a full stop beside one another.

She opens fire - BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! - Bullets

rip through the stolen cruiser. Shattered glass flies

everywhere. Dale and Saul desperately duck for cover.

Saul hits the gas and the bullet riddled car takes off.

Carol follows.

Saul pops back up and begins steering again.

The car bumps back on to a main road. Carol follows,

sirens blaring.

Saul's hand flails around, grasping everything. He feels

the SHOTGUN and accidentally pulls the trigger-

BOOM! The blast blows through the roof of the car and

hits an overhead TRAFFIC LIGHT - shredding it to pieces!

JESUS!!!                         SHIT!

Carol flies into the intersection on a collision course

with Saul and Dale.

CRUNCH! A car smashes into the side of the Carol's

cruiser.

As Dale and Saul speed off, Carol emerges from the

smoking wreckage, a look of hate in her eyes.

EXT. QUIET RESIDENTIAL STREET - MOMENTS LATER

The stolen cruiser screeches to a halt and Saul hops out.

He starts running up the block at top speed.

Dale, still handcuffed in the back of the cruiser, starts

thrashing and screaming.

Dale continues to scream as Saul obliviously bolts to the

end of the block and just keeps going.

Dale sits in the car, helpless. He has a look of utter

disbelief on his face. After a moment of silence he

starts wildly kicking the door window. He soon gives up.

Just then, Dale notices Saul, over a block away, running

back towards the stolen car. Saul soon arrives,

completely out of breath, and opens the door.

Dale flops out of the car and onto the grass. Saul tries

to help him to his feet, but Dale pulls away.

Dale wiggles to his feet runs for it. Saul follows.

INT. HARDWARE STORE - DAY

Dale and Saul enter the hardware store, walking very

close together so that no one sees Dale is handcuffed.

They receive a few odd looks as they search and locate

what they are looking for: saws. Saul quickly finds a

sturdy looking hack-saw.

Dale gets on his knees and bends over, pressing his face

up against the wall. Saul begins to manically hack away

at the cuffs.

Suddenly, Saul sees a store clerk coming and shoves the

saw underneath Dale's suit jacket.

They watch the clerk walk off and immediately return to

sawing the handcuffs.

EXT. HARDWARE STORE - SOON AFTER

Dale stretches his arms. The handcuffs are still on his

hands, but no longer attached.

EXT. PAY PHONE - MOMENTS LATER

Dale is on the phone.

INTERCUT WITH:

INT. HOTEL ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Angie is watching TV alone in a hotel room. The phone

rings and she picks it up.

Angie hangs up.

EXT. PAY PHONE - CONTINUOUS

As Dale walks out of his phone booth, we see that Saul is

on the phone in the next booth and is also smoking from a

pipe.

Saul hangs up and exits the phone booth.

Saul lights his bowl.

Dale points at Saul's bowl.

Saul takes out his wad of cash and throws half of it at

Dale.

He throws fifty more cents at the shocked Dale.

Saul walks off.

A sad Dale starts picking up the money.

INT. TED'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Carol, who is a little bruised up from the car crash,

sits with Ted. They are both furious.

Carol checks her watch.

MUSIC UP: THE END by THE DOORS

- Saul gets on a bus and sits down, sad and deject.

- Dale sits against the phone booth, crying like a baby.

He buries his hands in his pocket and pulls out his baggy

of weed. He hurls it away. He gets up to retrieve it.

- Saul is in a really shitty fast food restaurant, nearly

crying as he eats his burger and fries.

- Dale stares at a joint in his hands, thinks for a

moment, and then, crying profusely, lights it and starts

smoking.

A solitary tear rolls down his cheek and drips directly

onto the tip of the joint, putting it out. Dale hears the

sizzle and looks at the joint. He continues crying. He

puts the joint down, beside three large roaches.

- Walking down the street, Saul sees the Point Grey

Retirement Home.

- Dale feverishly looks through the phone book. He finds

what he's looking for: Belogus.

- Saul, hiding behind a bush across the street, surveys

the retirement home. Seeing the coast is clear, he walks

towards the entrance. As Saul enters the building,

Budlofksy and Matheson pull up.

INT. RETIREMENT HOME - CONTINUOUS

Saul casually walks into the lobby. The elderly residents

of the retirement home are milling around the massive

common room.

Saul turns and sees an ELDERLY WOMAN.

Saul peers over her shoulder and sees Budlofsky and

Matheson walk in!

Saul runs for it, and they chase after him. He maneuvers

through the elderly like a pylon course, the thugs right

on his ass. He bursts into another room.

INT. CAFFETERIA - CONTINUOUS

He tears through the room, filled with old people eating.

Budlofsky and Matheson pursue him.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

As Saul runs through the hall, Budlofksy and Matheson

appear.

Matheson whip out his gun and fires - BLAM! The bullet

whizzes past Saul and two elderly men, who don't even

flinch, and then shatters a distant window. Saul turns

the corner and-

BAM! He slams into someone, sending the person crashing

to the ground.

Saul looks, terrified he's hurt an old person, but sees

it is a young male nurse. He runs for it and sees an open

door with chatter coming from inside. He runs into-

INT. TEA ROOM - CONTINUOUS

A dead end! Several startled OLD WOMEN look up from their

Majong. One of them instantly recognizes Saul-

The Budlofsky and Matheson bursts into the room. Saul

looks around, sees a teapot and grabs it. He hurls it at

Matheson and nails him in the face. The tea pot shatters

and hot water pours all over his face and hand.

Budlofsky GRABS Saul and knees him in the balls.

Budlofsky punches Saul in the face.

CUT TO BLACK

EXT. POINT GREY RETIREMENT HOME - CONTINUOUS

Dale hustles towards the entrance of the building when he

sees several police cars parked outside, their lights

flashing.

He sees a bunch of old people gathered on the front lawn.

Doing his best to avoid the cops, he joins the cluster of

elderly.

Dale is terrified.

Dale looks, circle of people comforting a crying old

woman, clearly Faye Belogus. He walks over.

Dale walks off, determined.

INT. THE BARN - SOON AFTER

Saul wakes up but can't see anything. From his POV we see

tape get ripped off his eyes and mouth.

Saul sees a BUDLOFSKY wielding a knife. He struggles and

realizes that his arms and legs are bound. Saul closes

his eyes, assuming he's about to die.

BUDLOFSKY cuts the tape away from Saul's legs.

Saul gets up and hops out of the car. He looks around and

see that he is in a LARGE BARN. Saul notices SIX THUGS

talking as they move bricks of weed and cocaine into a

van.

Matheson appears and looks at Saul with smoldering

hatred. Saul sees that his face and neck were burnt from

the tea and the broken shards of pot cut his cheek.

Matheson walks over, lowers to one knee, and punches him

straight in the balls.

Matheson whips out his gun and shoves it in Saul's mouth.

Budlofsky taps Matheson on the shoulder.

Matheson looks at the wheezing Saul, curled over by his

feet, and punches him in the back of the head.

Matheson pokes Saul in the back with his gun, ushering

him towards the corner of the barn. They come to an old

TRAP DOOR. Matheson opens the hatch and they descend.

INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

Saul is led along a narrow tunnel. As they reach the end,

Saul's eyes go wide. He enters the same massive metal

room that the government used in the 30s (at the

beginning of the movie)...only now it is rather worn

down, and filled with HUNDREDS OF HUGE MARIJUANA PLANTS.

Matheson urges Saul through the dense forest of weed,

passing several of Ted's thugs, the hum of the giant grow

lights filling the air.

As Matheson ushers Saul through the foliage, Saul notices

a strange suit that resembles an old fashioned scuba

diving uniform (the one from the 1930s intro) hanging on

a wall.

They arrive at a door. Matheson opens it and shoves Saul

in, causing him to almost trip.

It is the same room Private Miller was in. Matheson shuts

the door.

INT. RED'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

BAM! Dale kicks open Red's door and dashes into Red's,

ready for anything.

Dale starts looking around. He hears music and then sees

he's stepping in a pool of blood.

Dale follows the music into the bathroom.

INT. RED'S BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dale enters and is shocked to see Red lying on the floor,

clenching his bloody gut with one hand and a joint and

beer in the other. The music is coming from a small boom

box.

Red turns toward Dale and picks up a kitchen knife with

his bloody hand.

Red drops the knife and then takes a puff of his joint

and a sip of his beer.

Red takes a hit and coughs. It clearly brings terrible

pain to his bullet wound.

Red stares intensely at Dale.

Red heroic-ish-ly rises from the floor. He hobbles over

to the hall and opens a cabinet on the wall. Dale looks

in and sees several hand guns inside.

INT/EXT. RED'S CAR - NIGHT

Dale and Red are in Red's car, a FORD FIESTA, driving

through the countryside. Dale stops the car 100 yards

from the barn.

Red gets out and walks to the drivers side. Dale gets

out, gun in hand. Red gets in the drivers seat.

Red drives off. Dale takes a deep breath, clenches his

gun, and starts cautiously moving towards the barn. He

checks to make sure his safety is off and he's ready to

fight. Dale sneaks up on the building and pears in

between two boards. He sees Budlofsky supervising as the

thugs load the van.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Budlofsky is about to light a cigarette, when SUDDENLY

Dale does a jumping role into the burn and then quickly

scampers to his feet and puts a gun to THUG 1's head.

BLAM! Budlofsky shoots Thug 1 in the chest.

Dale drops his gun and puts his hands up.

Budlofsky points his gun at Thug 2.

Two of the thugs grab Dale and punch him several times.

The thugs start bringing Dale towards the hatch. Suddenly

one of them motions for the other to stop, feeling

something on Dale's back.

Thug 3 lifts up Dale's shirt, revealing that he has taped

a gun to his back.

The thugs bring him down the trap door.

INT. OBSERVATION LAB - CONTINUOUS

Saul is sitting against the wall with his hands bound and

a look of complete defeat. Suddenly, the door opens and

Dale is tossed in by Budlofsky.

Suddenly, they both hear someone coming. The door opens.

Matheson pokes his head, and gun, in.

He looks Dale and Saul up and down, then shuts the door.

Dale sits down and thinks, but is disturbed by his belt

buckle, which is digging into his gut.

Saul is hesitant, but awkwardly gets in position anyway.

In an unavoidably sexual-looking motion, Saul begins to

gyrate against Dale's belt buckle.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

The barn door slides open. Ted and Carol walk in.

Budlofsky looks over at the man he shot.

EXT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Five Asian men lay on their stomachs in the tree line

dressed in black and armed with machine guns. One of them

stares through a pair of night-vision binoculars while

utilizing a listening device. We see his view of Ted and

hear what he hears.

The Asian leader nods and does some hand signals to his

men. The acknowledge they understand. He holds up a

flashlight and flashes three times. From the opposing

side of the barn two other flashlights blink back. They

all get up and start to slowly move towards the barn.

INT. OBSERVATION LAB - CONTINUOUS

Dale and Saul are still "humping" away.

Dale drops to his knees and starts gnawing at the tape on

Saul's hands. Suddenly, they hear approaching footsteps.

Dale stands up just as Matheson walks in, gun drawn. Dale

looks at Saul and notices that he's managed to free his

hands.

Dale COUGHS TWICE. Saul shoots him a worried look and

shakes his head. Matheson notices. Saul COUGHS TWICE.

Dale shoots him a confused look. Saul motions at him and

COUGHS TWICE MORE.

DALE CHARGES DIRECTLY AT MATHESON!!!

BLAM! Matheson shoots at Dale's head! Dale falls to the

ground, specks of blood hitting Saul as he dives

forwards, TACKLING Matheson into the wall!

The Matheson's gun slides across the room, hitting Dale's

motionless body. Saul scrambles for the gun and grabs it.

Matheson gets to his feet. Saul turns and-

BLAM! He shoots Matheson in the gut.

Matheson writhes in pain.

Saul turns to see Dale lying face down.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Ted and Carol talk as Budlofsky and the thugs silently

stands by. Ted is holding a large hunting knife.

SUDDENLY, there is an EXPLOSION and a hole is blown in

the barn wall. Budlofsky is blasted back and badly torn

up.

Asian assassins start pouring into the barn. One of them

sees the wounded Budlofsky and blasts him away with a

machine gun.

RATA-TAT-TAT!!! Everyone opens fire!

INT. UNDERGROUND STORAGE ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Matheson moans and groans behind Saul, who is staring at

Dale's motionless body. Horrified, he flips Dale over...

He's alive! The top of his left ear has been blown off!

Saul analyzes Dale's wound.

Behind Saul, Matheson tries to stand up, but immediately

falls back down.

Saul helps Dale stand up, freeing his hands. Dale feels

his ear.

Dale turns to the injured Matheson.

Dale notices Saul is holding a gun.

Dale turns to Matheson, who has stopped moving.

They walk out the door and cautiously enter the forest of

weed.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

The Asians riddle the barn with bullets as they scream at

Ted and his men in Korean. The remaining thugs scamper

about, returning fire to the Asians. Ted and Carol hide

behind a vehicle.

Ted nods.

Carol and Ted pop up and unload their guns, hitting

several of their assailants. They watch in horror as

several more creep in through the hole the Escalade made.

Ted nods as Carol steps out from behind her cover and

nails several assassins.

RAT-A-TAT-TAT!!! Carol is shot several times in the

chest! She lurches backwards, but does not fall. Her

bullet proof vest has taken the bullets.

Carol continues firing and kills another attacker as Ted

runs for the trap door.

INT. GIANT UNDERGROUND GROW ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dale and Saul slowly make their way through the dense

marijuana foliage.

Saul suddenly GRABS Dale and pulls him down.

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Dale and Saul both scramble along a row

of weed planets as bullets ricochet all around them. They

continue running and then stop.

Saul spots an air vent in the middle of the room.

BLAM! BLAM! They are being shot at again.

Saul hesitantly takes aim and pulls the trigger. BLAM!

BLAM! BLAM!

They run and turn several corners when Saul suddenly

trips over a dead thug.

AH!!!                         WHOA!!!

Dale picks up the thug's machine gun. Suddenly, a thug

appears behind Saul.

Dale shoots right over Saul's shoulder and nails the thug

several times.

Saul looks to the vent in the middle of the room. Dale

looks at the pipe, sizes up Saul and himself, and takes a

deep breath.

Dale cocks his gun.

Saul tucks the gun in his belt and awkwardly climbs atop

Dale's shoulders and tears the vent off.

Saul lifts himself in. SUDDENLY, Dale sees Ted enter the

room and immediately go for his gun.

Dale walks out from under Saul, raises his gun, and

unloads - RATA-TAT-TAT!!! Ted ducks as the plants around

him are torn asunder. Dale runs out of ammo.

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Ted shoots at Saul, who narrowly avoids

the gunfire as he pulls himself into the vent. Ted

redirects his attention to Dale, who is running through

the bushes. Ted blasts off a few shots before Dale

vanishes into the foliage.

INT. VENT - CONTINUOUS

Saul wiggles his way through the vent. He turns a corner

and-

There is a skeleton wedged in the vent. A grate leading

out is directly above the corpse. Saul squeamishly crawls

over the skeleton.

He spots dog tags around it's neck as he crawls by. They

read: Private Greg B. Miller.

EXT. OPEN FIELD - CONTINUOUS

Thirty feet from the barn there is an air vent sticking

out of the ground. The top flies off and Saul emerges. He

flops onto the ground, then immediately scampers to his

and pulls out his gun. Saul looks to the open road to

freedom, then back at the barn.

INT. GIANT UNDERGROUND GROW ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Dale frantically runs through the rows of plants, when

SUDDENLY he sees the strange scuba suit out of the corner

of his eye and swings his gun at it, nearly opening fire.

Dale slows down to catch his breath, staring at the

strange scuba suit. Then, he gets an idea.

ANGLE ON: Ted, quietly walking through the room

Ted raises his gun as he spins around a corner.

Ted turns another corner and sees the strange scuba suit.

He starts to walk past it, when he stops himself. He

creeps back and looks at it, suspicious. He walks closer,

breathing as quietly as he can, his gun clenched tightly.

He slowly reaches his hand out to lift the face-hatch. He

gently takes hold of the latch and is about to open it,

when-

Dale jumps out from behind him and swings a FIRE

EXTINGUISHER at Ted's face - SLAM!!! Ted drops his gun as

he falls to the floor.

Ted leaps upwards and uppercuts Dale hard!!!

EXT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Saul inches towards the barn, hearing a melee of gunfire

and screams as he nears it. He cautiously peers in and

watches as Carol shoots an assassin in the chest then

spins around and shoots at another assassin who

desperately runs with a METAL BRIEFCASE handcuffed to his

wrist. Carol hits him several times; he lurches over and

falls through the trap door. She smiles and drops her

empty gun.

Saul watches Carol as she heads towards the trap door. He

takes a deep breath and CHARGES into the barn, unleashing

a barrage of bullets at her! BLAM BLAM BLAM! CLICK.

CLICK. CLICK. None of the bullets hit her. She turns and

sees Saul, who drops his empty gun.

They both SCREAM in rage and CHARGE, fists flying as they

collide. Carol whips Saul around by his collar and hurls

him to the ground. She runs up and kicks him in the gut,

time and time again.

Saul leaps to his feet and PUNCHES Carol in the face. He

PUNCHES her again. She reaches for her mace, so Saul

kicks her in the groin and grabs it for himself, then

sprays her in the face.

SLAM! He punches her in the face.

INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

Ted and Dale are squared off. Both are bloody lipped and

bruised. Dale continuously shucks and jives on the spot

as they talk.

Ted rips off his shirt, revealing dozens of fearsome

tattoos and scars. Dale quickly picks a grow light up off

the ground. Ted does the same. The humming of the grow

lights is heard as the two men walk in a circle, squared

off.

AAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!              AAAAAAHHHHHH!!!!

They both swing and their grow lights collide, sending

shards of glass everywhere.

Both receive several small cuts. The immediately charge

at each other and are soon grappling on the ground.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Carol writhes on the ground as Saul runs towards her with

a plank of wood. SMASH! He shatters it over her head.

Carol drops, unconscious.

Saul drops to his knees, exhausted.

Saul turns around to see Matheson clutching his bleeding

gut with one hand and a loaded gun with the other.

CRASH!!! Red's car SMASHES through the side of the barn

and SLAMS into Matheson, PULVERIZING him!!!

It lurches to a stop directly ON TOP OF THE HATCH leading

underground. Red steps out of the car.

BLAM! Red gets shot in the gut and drops!

Saul spins around to see Carol standing behind him, a

machine gun aimed.

INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

Ted and Dale grapple violently on the ground. His gut

jiggles as he lunges forwards, punching Dale in the

throat! Dale falls to his knees, gasping for air. Ted

kicks him in the head and picks up his GUN.

ANGLE ON: AN ASIAN ASSASSIN

Barely alive, the Asian Assassin with the briefcase drags

himself down the corridor and enters the grow room. He

opens the briefcase and we see that it is a bomb. The

assassin inserts a key.

Ted stands over Dale, aims the gun to his head, and-

KA-BOOM!!! THE BRIEFCASE EXPLODES!!!. Flames sweep over

the room as Dale rolls for cover. Ted gets blasted back.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

Saul tries to be brave as Carol takes final aim.

KABOOM!!! The explosion BURSTS UP from the hatch with

incredible force. Saul and Carol get blown back as Red's

Ford Fiesta is sent flying up in the air. The flaming car

lands DIRECTLY on Carol and explodes. The entire barn is

now engulfed in flames.

INT. UNDERGROUND FACILITY - CONTINUOUS

The air thick with weed smoke, Dale slowly rises to his

feet. He sees Ted slumped against the wall, dead,

partially aflame. Dale walks over to Ted's body and takes

the gun out of his hand.

He pulls a small BLUE ENVELOPE out of his pocket and

drops it on Ted.

Dale turns to see the exit blocked by a wall of fire. The

air is thick with smoke and he can barely breath. Dale

looks around desperately. He spots the FIRE EXTINGUISHER.

He looks at the flames. He takes a deep breath, picks up

the fire extinguisher, hurls it with all his might at the

fire, and then quickly whips out his gun and shoots at

it!

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! He hits the extinguisher and it

explodes, blasting out the fire in the hallway towards

the barn. Dale runs like hell.

As he bolts down the hallway, the flames rush back in and

chase after him.

INT. BARN - CONTINUOUS

The barn starts to buckle, when Dale suddenly leaps out

of the trap door, flames licking his heels. Coughing

profusely, Dale stands in the barn, then realizes his

pants are on fire.

Dale wriggles out of his pants and kicks them away.

He starts to walk out of the barn when he suddenly trips

over someone.

He grabs one of the unconscious Saul's feet and starts to

drag him out of the barn. Just a they exit, the barn

COLLAPSES in on itself, crumbling into a massive heap of

burning wood. Dale pulls Saul onto the grass. Saul starts

coughing.

They take a few deep breathes and each cough a bunch.

Suddenly, they see something moving in the rubble. RED

emerges, lightly crisped with his clothes on fire. He

roles around in the dirt trying to put himself out.

Red pats out the flames and stands up, all charred and

covered in dirt.

They all stand up. Red puts his arms around Dale and Saul

for support. They start to hobble towards the forest.

What should we do now? Can we go home?

I've gotta get downtown, try and win

Angie back.

Tell her you cut off your ear for her,

like that crazy artist.

But, seriously dude, your joking right?

She'll never take you back, ever. Just

grow up and date a woman your own age.

Do you think we should have looked for

the ear? They probably could've re-

attached it, eh? I mean, this ear thing

kind of fucking sucks.

Oh my god, they blew your ear off, man!

Fuck that's gross. Can you dudes switch

sides? I don't want to look at it.

Don't worry, man. Look at Evander

Holyfield, he looks totally normal. And

plus, I saw this thing on the Discovery

Channel, they can actually grow ears,

like, in a petri dish, or even on the

side of a mouse. And you only need half

of one. It'll be a fuckin' cinch.

I just realized I've 100% lost my job by

now. I haven't called in for days.

Who fuckin' cares? I thought you wanted

to be a talk radio dude anyways? And,

like, I never said anything, but you do

have the voice. Like, when I didn't know

what you did, I kind of thought you might

have been doing cartoon voices, you know,

like that Shrek shit, and that's why you

wore a suit.

You do have a good talk radio voice. I

love that shit, too. I...wait, say

something again?

They walk together in silence, delighted at their new

prospects. After a brief moment, Saul suddenly seems

afraid. He starts nervously looking back towards the

barn.

Dale motions at his wounded ear.

Dale starts getting nervous, but tries to hide it.

Dale suddenly looks over his shoulder, but sees nothing.

Saul grabs Dale.

They freeze.

Sshh!                             Sshh!

Dale listens intently.

They stand in silence.

Red pushes himself off Dale and Saul and run into the

darkness.

With the barn's flaming remains the only light in sight,

Dale and Saul run off into the endless, dark country

side. And as enchanting music fills the air, we humbly...

