We hear voices over of people chattering and laughing.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - PATIO - EXTERIOR DAY

We are in Philip Stuckey's residence on the Hollywood Hills.

Apparently, a party is in progress.

Close Up on the Magician's hands and the hands of two ladies. The

magician is doing tricks with coins in the ladies' hands.

On lady has got three coin in her hand, and the other one only

one. The magician takes the three coins from the first lady's

hand, and closes it. Then he takes the only coin from the other

lady's hand, but leaves it open. He puts the four coins in his

hand and closes it.

Credits appears in white capital letters on the screen.

He opens his hand, which is empty. Then he opens the first lady's

hand, which contains the four coins.

He takes one of the coins from the first lady's hand, hides it in

his hand, and makes it appears again changed into a huge penny

coin.

End of the first set of credits.

His left hand moves to the first lady's' ear, and gets the missing

penny out of it.

Philip Stuckey, the host, walks behind the magician. Philip is a

short man in his forties, with receding hair. He looks, at the

same time, obsequious and domineering. His guests laugh at his

joke. Philip moves toward a young man.

The camera follows Philip.

He walks to a group of guest gathered around a large buffet table.

Behind the table, the balustrade of the patio, and in the

background, Hollywood Hills.

He turns to another guest and shake hands with him.

He turns to a charming lady talking with a man.

He gives her a kiss.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - STUDY - INTERIOR DAY

Very modern design. An artistic picture of a nude girl on the

wall.

Medium shot of Edward Lewis standing near the desk, talking on the

telephone. He is a very handsome man in his early forties. He is

very elegantly dressed, apparently with a very expensive suit.

He walks to the large bay window, overlooking Hollywood Hills.

She hangs up.

Edward looks down, through the bay window, to the party still

going on on the patio on the floor below. We can hear the chatter

from the party.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - STAIRWAY - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is going down the stairs followed by a young blonde man,

wearing a very elegant suit.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DOWNSTAIRS HALL - INTERIOR DAY

They have reached the downstairs hall. Edward looks at his watch

and then turns toward the young man. He is looking slightly angry.

Two charming women walks near the two men. One of the woman turns

toward Edward.

Edward shakes the woman's hand, who walks away, and turns back to

the young blonde man.

He moves across the crowd of guests, and reaches a servant, who

gives him his coat.

He starts walking away with his coat in his hands, when he turns

around to the sound of a feminine voice.

Susan is a beautiful woman, in her late thirties, wearing an

elegant yellow silk blouse.

They kiss on both cheeks.

They start walking slowly toward the exit of the house, Edward's

arm around Susan's waist.

She laughs.

They stop walking, and Edward faces Susan.

They kiss again on the cheeks.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Philip seated in an armchair, talking to a

beautiful red-hair woman, seated in another armchair.

Elizabeth, Philip's wife, walks rapidly toward Philip's armchair

and taps him on the shoulder. Elizabeth is a red-hair woman in her

forties. She is still nice-looking, and very elegantly dressed,

but she doesn't have anymore the attraction that a younger woman

can have on Philip.

Philip looks toward the entrance of the house, and stands up.

Philip walks rapidly away while Elizabeth looks at him with both

hand on her hips.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - PARKING - EXTERIOR DAY

Close shot on a beautiful car : a grey Lotus Esprit.

Medium shot of two Japanese parking valets, wearing white shirts,

black bow-ties and black vests, looking at him. One of them

answers him in Japanese. We don't understand what he says, but we

understand the word Stuckey in his sentence.

Medium shot on Edward standing near Philip's Lotus. Edward turns

around just as Philip is rushing toward him.

Darryl, Edward's chauffeur, is reading a newspaper, next to

another chauffeur. Darryl is a very tall and very strong-looking

Afro-American man. He raises his hand to show his helplessness

about the situation.

Philip gives his car keys to Edward.

Philip runs toward the Japanese valets.

Meanwhile, Edward has seated himself in the driver seat of the

Lotus Esprit. Philip comes back to him as Edward closes the door

of the car.

We hear the gears of the manual box clashing under Edward's

unexperienced hand.

Tires squeal as the car rushes forward.

The Japanese valets look up at the noise.

Edward has stopped after a couple of feet, and Philip runs to the

driver's door.

The car rushes forward. Tires squeal as Edward accelerate down the

hill road.

The sky is slightly darker. Night is falling.

HOLLYWOOD HILLS - EXTERIOR EVENING AND NIGHT

Full shot of the Lotus Esprit driving along the streets of

Hollywood Hills. Edward has switched the lights on.

We hear the song King of Wistful thinking, performed by Go West.

The sky is getting darker, and apparently, Edward doesn't know his

way very well around Hollywood Hills.

Long shot on the famous HOLLYWOOD sign up on Hollywood Hills

Back to the car driving on the roads of Hollywood Hills.

Aerial shot of the car coming to a dead end in a parking lot.

The car backs up.

HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Aerial overview of Hollywood.

The last set of credits starts in white capital letters on this

overview.

The music keeps on playing.

The overview now shows Hollywood Boulevard.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot on street level on Hollywood Boulevard.

The credits are still appearing and disappearing on the screen.

A man is selling maps, advertised by a huge board he is carrying,

and on which is written in red letters : Maps of the Stars

Homes.

Close Up on two hands exchanging money and drug. Then Close Up on

the faces of the two men.

Medium shot of two prostitutes cruising on the sidewalk. A car

drives along the sidewalk, but doesn't stop.

Close Up on the Carole Lombard Star on the Hollywood Boulevard

sidewalk.

Medium shot on two other prostitutes cruising on the sidewalk.

Larger shot on a car stopping near the prostitute

Another very short view of Hollywood Boulevard, showing a Close

shot on a Chinese Restaurant. An then, a very fast horizontal

panning of the camera, which gives us a blurred picture. The

panning stops in :

SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Medium long shot on a very quiet side street near Hollywood

Boulevard. The street seems even much quieter after all the noise

and the hustle we've seen on the Boulevard itself.

The credits are still appearing and disappearing on the screen.

An ambulance is driving very fast along the street, with its siren

wailing. On the side of the ambulance is written : Los Angeles

Fire Department, and below : Paramedic.

The camera lets the ambulance go and moves to show us a shady-

looking building with a vertical neon sign saying HOTEL, but

only the H and the O are lit, the others letters being out of

order.

The music fades out.

This building actually is partly a regular hotel, and partly a

place that rents small apartments on a monthly basis.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We are in the small apartment rented by Vivian Ward and Kit De

Luca, two young prostitutes, whom we are going to know better

later on.

Close Up on a pretty woman buttocks, just covered by a very small

black lace panty.

An alarm clock is ringing.

The woman turns around, and shows us her stomach and her navel,

showing from under a pink T-shirt.

The camera pans up to the woman's arm and hand stopping the alarm-

clock.

Close-Up on several familial pictures pinned on the wall.

Close-Up on the woman putting on a white sleeveless close-fitting

T-shirt over her black lace bra. But we don't see the woman's

head.

Close-Up on the woman's hand picking up cheap jewels from a table,

and putting them on. On the table there is also an empty bottle of

a strong alcoholic beverage.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on Edward's face, driving the car. He seems a bit lost.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Medium long shot on the Lotus driving on Hollywood Boulevard.

We hear the song Real Wild Child, performed by Christopher

Otcasek.

Credits keeps on appearing and disappearing on the screen.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-Up on a black stiletto-heel boot. The woman's hand is using

a black felt-pen to hide the clear spots on the heel of the boot.

Close-Up on the woman's hand pulling the zipper up along the side

of the boot.

Close-Up on the face of the woman, putting mascara on her

eyelashes. The woman is named Vivian Ward, and her head is covered

by a blonde wig.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The Lotus is driving through a crossroad. The tires screech, and

the car swings a little. Apparently, Edward is still having

problems with his gear shift.

The camera follows the car for a couple of seconds.

VIVIAN'S HOTEL STAIRCASE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on Vivian's legs going down the stairway. Then the camera

moves backward and we see her in full. Another woman is going up

the stairs.

Vivian stop in mid-stairs.

Quick shot, through the bannister, of the manager talking to an

Afro-American woman.

Back to Vivian still standing on the stairs.

Vivian goes back up the stairs.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-Up on the toilet water tank, and Vivian's hands taking the

lid off. She then takes a green plastic box out of the water. She

opens the box and looks at the money hidden inside the box. There

is only one one-dollar bill left.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Vivian crosses the room.

Vivian opens a window and gets out of the room.

VIVIAN'S HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

High angle shot of Vivian going out of the window and on the

emergency exit.

Vivian starts going down the emergency stairway.

SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A dark street around Hollywood. The Lotus is driving slowly. The

engine is revving, as the car turns around the corner of the

street.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward looks around him, visibly a bit anxious : he know he is

completely lost.

VIVIAN'S HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on Vivian's face seen through the emergency ladder moving

down.

An old woman is looking at her from across the street.

Full shot on the building and Vivian going down the steps of the

emergency ladder.

Close shot on Vivian reaching ground level and walking away.

Medium shot. Vivian walks though a gap in the wire fence behind

the hotel, and walks away on the street. The camera tilts slightly

up and we see a painted inscription on the wall of the hotel that

says HOTEL - APTS.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot. The shot is slightly high angled.

End of credits.

The camera pans around and comes down to street level.

The music fades out.

We hear the voice of an Afro-American man yelling.

A young man with a red T-shirt and a white cap crosses the

boulevard on a skateboard. He reaches the sidewalk and gets lost

in the crowd. We see the Afro-American man. He is wearing a flashy

printed shirt. He crosses the boulevard coming toward us.

Medium shot on a group of three young men seated on the sidewalk.

One of them is the skateboard man we've just seen crossing the

boulevard.

The young man stands up. He has apparently given something

(drugs ?) to the two other ones.

He jumps on his skateboard and rolls away. He passes Vivian who is

walking toward us.

With the street lights, we get a better view of Vivian. She is a

young woman in her early twenties. She is very tall and slim. She

is a beautiful woman, even though her prostitute outfit and heavy

make-up makes her a little less beautiful than she actually is.

She is wearing a red jacket and a man's very large cap on her

blonde wig. Underneath the jacket she is wearing her very short

sleeveless white top, which is attached to her also very short

blue skirt with a big metal ring. She is carrying a big bag

strapped on her shoulder.

Medium shot just a little further on the street. A young plain-

cloth policeman is showing his badge to an afro-american man.

Vivian walks behind them. She gives them a quick look, but doesn't

stop.

The camera follows Vivian, but we keep hearing what the two men

are saying.

Vivian stops, and looks at something we don't see on the sidewalk.

She turns her head away, not feeling well because of what she has

just seen.

Back to the two men.

He turns around. Two tourists, a male and a female are taking

snapshots of what is down on the pavement, and which we still

haven't seen.

The policeman looks at his uniformed colleague.

The uniformed policeman starts pulling the tourists away.

Close-Up shot on a lit sign that says The Blue Banana Club,

Full shot from across the street, showing the entrance of the

club, with the sign, that we've just seen, above the door.

THE BLUE BANANA CLUB - MAIN ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up on a woman's hips moving in rhythm with the sound of the

music. The camera tilts up and we discover she is painting a

fresco on the wall of the club. The fresco represents various

hippy-looking characters.

The camera pans along the fresco and then moves back into the

crowd of the club. People are dancing. We hear the song Show Me

Your Soul performed by Red Hot Chili Peppers.

Vivian crosses the dance floor and stops near a staircase leading

to the upper floor. She looks around, visibly looking for someone.

Vivian walks to the bar. The bartender is an older man, nicknamed

Pops.

Vivian goes to the staircase and start walking upstairs.

THE BLUE BANANA CLUB - UPSTAIRS POOLROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot on Kit De Luca sitting down, and bobbing her head up

and down in rhythm with the music.

Kit is a girl in her early twenties. She is clearly shorter than

Vivian, and has dark hair. She looks a bit Latino. Actually she

from Italian origin. She is pretty, but not as beautiful as

Vivian, and more vulgar. She is wearing sunglasses and is absently

combing the front of her hairline.

Kit suddenly realizes that someone is standing near her and

looking down at her. She stops combing her hair and looks up. She

takes her glasses off and smiles.

Vivian doesn't smile back at her, and looks even a bit angry.

Instead of answering her friend's question, she points to the

people around her.

Vivian grabs Kit's arm and makes her stand up.

Carlos stands up and faces Vivian. He is a young Latino man.

She grabs Vivian's arm and leads her to the staircase.

When they are gone, the girl named Angel looks at Carlos.

The music fades out.

THE BLUE BANANA CLUB - MAIN ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Vivian and Kit are walking down the staircase.

Kit walks to the bar, and makes Vivian follow her.

She has reached the bar and starts picking bits of food in plates

on the counter.

Close Up on Kit's hands picking food (olives, onions, cherries...)

in the snack plates, and putting them on a paper napkin.

Back to the two girls behind the bar.

Kit moves around Vivian, sits on a stool at the bar, and starts

eating.

She sits down on another stool.

We hear people shouting in the background and glass being broken.

The two girls turns their heads around for a second and then come

back to their conversation at the bar.

SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A very quiet street.

Close shot on a tramp looking though some junks left over on the

sidewalk, in front of a house.

Full shot on the street, seen from the other side of the street.

The Lotus Esprit stops at the tramp's level.

The tramp lifts his head.

Close Up shot on Edward's face behind the wheel on his car.

He snickers.

Back to the full shot of the street with the Lotus and the tramp

behind it.

The car moves away.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Medium full shot on Vivian and Kit standing near a table on which

a man is selling some souvenirs. Another prostitute is leaning on

a tree. Kit walks toward the prostitute.

She is mentioning the stars of the Walk of Fame, embedded in the

sidewalk of the boulevard.

She walks away on the boulevard. Kit turns toward Vivian.

We hear someone whistling, and then :

Kit turns toward the boulevard, where the voice is coming from.

Medium shot on an open convertible red car driving along the

boulevard. In the car, three young men, two in the front, one in

the back. The man sitting next to the driver, yells to the girls.

The car keeps on moving on the boulevard and out of view.

Back on Vivian and Kit.

She takes her cap off.

Kit puts her hands on Vivian's blonde wig.

We hear brakes screeching. Kit turns around toward the noise.

Full shot on the boulevard. The Lotus is driving along the

boulevard. The car bounces a little, while the gears are grinding.

Back to the two girls watching the car. Vivian points to it.

We see the car passing in front of the girls. Apparently, it has

stopped a little further on the boulevard, because we hear its

brakes screeching.

Reverse angle shot showing the two girls with the stopped car

behind them.

Vivian hugs Kit.

She takes her jacket off and puts it across her bag. She walks

slowly toward the car.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward is sitting behind the wheel.

Close Up on Edward's hand trying to work the gearshift.

We hear the gears grinding, but the shift doesn't want to move

into first gear position.

Back to Edward sitting in his car. We see Vivian's back bending to

look through the passenger's window.

Reverse angle shot showing Vivian's face through the window

Reverse angle shot on Vivian's back.

Reverse angle shot on Vivian's face.

Reverse angle shot on Vivian's back. She is standing up.

Reverse angle shot showing Vivian's standing body through the

window.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot. On the other side of the boulevard, a little group of

people, including Carlos, is looking at the scene.

Medium shot on the Lotus seen from the back. Vivian opens the

passenger door and climbs in.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Vivian grabs the 20 dollars bill, and puts it away.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

On the other side of the boulevard, the little group is still

looking at the scene. They start crossing the boulevard.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The little group is still crossing the boulevard.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward tries to start the car, but he just starts the windshield

wipers !

Close up on Edward's hand trying to work the gearshift.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on the Lotus rear license plate : 2QCE465

Larger shot on the car driving away.

Full shot on Hollywood Boulevard traffic, with the Lotus, seen

from the front in the middle of the traffic.

Closer shot showing the couple seen through the windshield

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The couple seen through the windshield.

Back on the boulevard. A traffic light going from amber to red. We

hear the tires screeching as the car stops.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward smiles to her.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The light turned green, and the car starts.

We hear gears grinding.

HOLLYWOOD - A WIDE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

We are now off Hollywood Boulevard, in another wide street or

boulevard in Hollywood.

Full shot on the car moving away from us.

Medium shot of the couple through the windshield.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on Edward's hand trying to change gears. It doesn't

really succeed, and we hear a grinding noise.

HOLLYWOOD - A WIDE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Back on the shot through the windshield.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

He tries to shift gears and gets another grinding noise.

She laughs.

HOLLYWOOD - A WIDE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Back on the shot through the windshield.

Medium shot on a lingerie shop.

We see Vivian's head, and then the camera follows her as she

climbs into the driver's seat. Edward closes his door on the

passenger's side. Vivian closes her door and puts her seat belt

on.

She adjusts the back-view mirror.

Medium close-up shot of the car seen from the back with the camera

set on the road. The car starts very fast, but also very

smoothly : it is now driven by very expert hands.

Several shots of the car racing along the streets.

Shot of the the couple through the windshield.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

She shows her arm to Edward, who chuckles.

Edward looks at her and smiles.

HOLLYWOOD - A WIDE STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Shot of the couple seen through the windshield.

LOTUS ESPRIT - INTERIOR NIGHT

She puts her right hand on Edward's zipper.

Edward doesn't react, but he looks at her in such a way that she

feels she has better take her hand off his zipper.

BERVERLY HILLS - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Several shots of the car driving fast in Beverly Hills.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The tires of the car squeal as it makes a last fast turn to stop

in front of the hotel.

Full shot. The Regent Beverly Wilshire Hotel is a very luxurious

hotel, certainly one of the most expensive hotel of the Los

Angeles area.

Medium shot on a uniformed attendant, who is standing near the

entrance of the hotel, and rushes to Edward's car.

Medium full shot on the Lotus parked in front of the hotel. The

attendant opens the passenger's door of the car, while Vivian

comes out of the car on her own.

He gets out of the car. The attendant closes the door and then

moves away, while Vivian joins Edward on the sidewalk.

He looks at her for a couple of second, before talking again.

She laughs.

Edward starts turning around to go inside the hotel, but doesn't

do it, and instead looks back in Vivian's direction.

Medium shot on Vivian seated on the backrest of a public bench,

with her feet resting on the bench itself. She puts her cap back

on.

Edward walks to the bench on which Vivian is sitting.

Quick medium shot on the uniformed attendant watching the scene

with curiosity from the entrance of the hotel.

Back to Vivian and Edward.

She gets off the bench and laughs.

They start walking toward the entrance of the hotel

He smiles.

He puts his coat, which he was carrying on his arm, on Vivian's

shoulders, and then wraps it around Vivian's body, in order to

cover as much as he can of Vivian's very conspicuous outfit.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot on Edward and Vivian crossing the hotel lobby. While

walking, Vivian puts her arms into the sleeves of the coat. Then

she raises her eyes to look at the luxury around her.

Medium full shot on the guests seated in comfortable armchairs

near the front desk. All these guests are very elegantly dressed,

and mostly middle-aged. They all look with curiosity at the

strange couple that just walked in.

Another medium shots on seated guests staring at the couple.

Edward walks to the reception desk, with Vivian following him. A

very neatly dressed female receptionist is behind the counter.

While Edward is looking through his messages, Vivian is leaning on

the wall near the reception desk and looks around her. She takes

her cap off, but one still can see her strange outfit underneath

the slightly open coat. She stares at a passing female guest who

stares back at her.

She picks up the phone.

Edward slowly walks away from the desk, taking Vivian along with

him.

Medium shot on the elevator doors. Edward and Vivian reach the

elevator, and Edward presses the call button. A middle-aged couple

is already waiting for it. They both look at Vivian. Vivian turns

around and notice their disapproving look. She raises her leg and

puts the tip of her boot on the high ash-tray set near the door of

the elevator, showing her thigh to the couple, and especially to

the man.

She laughs and turns to the middle-aged couple.

We hear the ding of the elevator bell. Vivian puts her leg down.

The elevator door opens on Dennis, the young elevator attendant.

Vivian is the first one to walk in.

Edward wants to let the middle-aged couple enter the elevator

first. The man starts to move, but his wife holds him back.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Reverse angle shot on Vivian sitting on the sofa at the back of

the cabin. She puts one leg on the sofa. Dennis looks at her and

smiles.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Back on the entrance of the elevator. Edward starts to walk in the

cabin. The middle-aged couple remains outside.

She turns her head toward her husband.

The door of the elevator closes.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Dennis doesn't look at the couple behind him, but he still has a

very broad smile. Vivian stands up from the sofa.

The elevator moves up. Dennis tries to look casual, but doesn't

really succeed.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - PENTHOUSE HALLWAY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot on the elevator door. It opens.

Vivian gets out of the elevator.

Edward gets out of the elevator. Dennis can't keep his eyes off

Vivian, and watches her walking in the hallway. Edward turns

around and looks at him a bit severely. Dennis wipes the smile off

his face, goes back into the cabin of the elevator and closes the

doors. The camera follows Edward walking away to the door of the

penthouse, where Vivian is waiting for him. He gets his magnetic

card out of his pocket.

Close Up on Edward's hands trying to insert the magnetic card into

the slot in the lock of the door. He sighs.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot on the penthouse living room with the front door in

the background. Everything - the rug on the floor, the furniture -

is nice and very classy. All the lights are on. The front door

opens.

Edward walk in first, followed by Vivian. He switches more lights

on. Vivian closes the door and starts walking around the huge

living room. Edward looks at her.

Edward has been taking a newspaper left by an attendant on a small

table near the front door. He crosses the room and and drops the

newspaper on the desk. He sits down behind the desk, and starts

looking through his mail, while Vivian walks out on the terrace.

Vivian walks in the room through another French window-door on the

other side of the desk. She puts her bag on an armchair.

Edward nods his head.

Vivian takes off Edward's coat and puts in on a sofa.

She takes her red jacket off.

She sits down on an armchair.

Edward, still seated behind his desk, watches her with a strange

look in his eyes. He suddenly realizes that perhaps he hasn't done

something very wise in bringing Vivian with him.

He takes his wallet out of this jacket.

She stands up and walks to the desk. Edward puts the money on the

desk. She takes the money and sits on the desk. She puts the money

in one of her high boots.

She doesn't stand up but moves slightly in a very suggestive way.

Edward takes his fax, but doesn't seem to react at Vivian's

suggestive movements.

She laughs, and zips one of her boots down. Out of the boot, she

takes several condoms wrapped in cellophane paper.

Edward stands up from his desk. Immediately Vivian reaches for his

zipper.

He laughs awkwardly.

He takes his jacket off, and puts it on the back of the desk

chair.

He walks away from the desk across the room.

She zips her boot back up, stands up and follows him across the

room.

Edward, now in his shirtsleeves, but still with his necktie and

his vest on, has seated himself in an armchair.

She sits downs on a low pouf in front of his armchair.

The doorbell chimes. They both stand up.

He turns around and find his face very close to Vivian's face, and

seems a little disturbed by it.

The doorbell chimes again.

Vivian runs across the room to the front door and opens it. A room

service male attendant comes in carrying a loaded tray. Vivian

closes the door behind him.

Edward has seated himself back in the armchair.

The attendant seems a little surprised by Vivian's outfit, but,

being a good luxury hotel attendant, he pretends not to notice,

and carries the tray onto the bar. After he has put the tray down,

he turns around and almost bumps into Vivian, who was standing

behind him.

She giggles.

The attendant doesn't move away and remains close to Vivian,

staring at her.

The attendant clears his throat.

Edward walks toward the attendant, and gives him some tip money.

The attendant walks out of the room. Edward walks to the bar.

Edward sets the champagne glasses on the bar.

She sits down on the steps that run across the room, separating it

in two slightly different levels.

She zips one of her boots down.

She takes her knee-length sock off. We hear the champagne bottle

cork popping off.

He brings her a glass of Champagne, which he sets down on the

floor besides her. Vivian is taking her other boot off.

He walks back to the bar to take his own glass.

He looks at her, a bit surprised.

Vivian is draining her glass empty. Edward comes near her, with a

silver bowl in his hands. In the bowl are some fresh strawberries.

He takes the lid off the bowl and shows it to her.

She takes a strawberry and eats it. Edward closes the bowl and

brings it back on the bar. He sits down on a stool.

He stands up.

He takes the glass off her hand. She stands up.

She walks to the bar, where Edward is filling the glass with

Champagne.

He gives her the glass, and she immediately drinks it. He sits

down on the stool.

He doesn't answer immediately, remains pensive for a couple of

seconds, and then looks at her. He laughs.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on the sink, and Vivian's hands been washed. She turns

the faucet off and takes an white towel to dry her hands.

The camera tilts up to Vivian's face, who walks to the door.

She closes the door, and goes back to the sink. Edward re-opens

the door and enters the bathroom.

Vivian hides something behind her back, but her hand in her back

can be seen in one of the bathroom mirror.

Edward looks worried. He points to her

He walks toward her and sighs. He grabs her by the arm and moves

her toward the door. He takes her hand bag

She gets rid of his hand.

Close Up on Vivian's hand, which Edward is opening by force. She

was hiding a little box of dental floss. Edward has put Vivian's

bag under his arm.

She takes her dental floss back.

She walks to the sink. He start walking across the room, but stops

in his tracks, and looks at her. She turns around from the sink

and looks at him.

He gives the handbag back to her.

He nods his head. She goes back to the sink and brings a piece of

dental floss to her mouth, stops, and brings it down. She turns

around.

He closes the door. Vivian starts cleaning her teeth with dental

floss.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up shot on the TV screen, where an old black and white

episode of I love Lucy is being played. It is episode 23 from

Season 5, called Lucy's Italian Movie. Lucy is standing close to

a huge bucket full of grapes, and seems a bit reluctant to climb

into it. Behind her, a fat Italian lady is speaking Italian to

her.

We hear recorded laughs coming from the TV set.

The camera moves away from the TV set.

We hear Edward's voice speaking on the telephone.

We hear Vivian laughing.

On the TV screen, the Italian fat lady is climbing into the bucket

full of grapes.

The camera keeps on moving away from the TV set, and we discover

Vivian sitting on the floor and drinking Champagne. And, behind

her, we see Edward sitting on an armchair near a small table on

which the telephone set is resting. Edward is writing on a

document resting on his laps.

He puts the phone down back on its hook.

Medium high angle shot on Vivian sitting on the floor, with all

kinds of goodies around her, including the Champagne bottle in its

bucket.

Back on Edward, still writing on the document on his laps. He

snorts.

Quick shot on Vivian laughing.

Medium shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is putting a reluctant

foot in the bucket. Close Up on her foot reaching into the grapes.

She screams with a wide open mouth.

Back on Vivian changing position and lying on her stomach to be

more comfortable to watch TV. She laughs.

Edward watches her without moving from his armchair.

Edward chuckles. And then he stands up.

Vivian is still lying on the floor, laughing. Edward sits down on

the sofa next to her.

Shot on the TV screen, where Lucy is stomping the grapes, with a

disgusted face. We hear Vivian laughing very loudly.

Close Up on Vivian's face laughing and holding the glass of

Champagne. She looks up at Edward, still seated on the sofa.

Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian

Close Up shot on Vivian's face. She has a strange smile on her

face.

Close Up shot on Edward's face looking at Vivian.

Back to Vivian. We hear the recorded laughs coming from the TV

set. Vivian stands up on her arms and knees and walks on all four

toward the sofa.

Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and the other woman are

stomping the grapes.

High angle shot on Vivian on her knees near the sofa. She puts a

hand up inside Edward's pants leg. Edward snorts.

On the TV screen, Lucy now seems to be enjoying her grapes

stomping.

Still resting on her knees, Vivian is taking her white top off her

shoulders. She slips it down, and because the top is attached to

the skirt, the skirt comes down with it. Vivian is now wearing

only her black lace underwear and bra. Vivian puts the top and the

skirt away from her on the floor, and bends down on the seated

Edward. Suddenly, she stands up and walks away. Edward seems

surprised. But she comes back with a cushion that she drops on the

floor, and then kneels on it. She takes the TV remote control from

the table by the sofa, and presses a button on it.

On the TV screen, Lucy and the Italian lady are still stomping the

grapes, but the sound shuts off.

Back to the sofa. Closer shot. Vivian puts the remote control back

on the table. Then she leans on Edward, and starts taking his

necktie off. Edward puts his hand on her hair, and seems

surprised : he hadn't realized it was a wig.

Quick shot on the TV screen, where Lucy and her Italian friend are

now dancing on the grapes.

Back to the sofa, where Vivian is taking Edward's pants off. She

opens his shirt on his chest, and bends on it.

Close Up on their two faces, very close to each other.

She bends on his chest and starts kissing him on the chest, going

down. She stops to look at the TV.

On the TV screen, the Italian lady is throwing grapes in Lucy's

face.

Back to Vivian, who smiles and resumes her kissing job on Edward's

chest.

Close Up shot on Edward's face : he is inhaling very strongly.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward is in the shower, hot water pouring on his head. He opens

his eyes and seems to think about what just happened. He turns

around to turn the water off.

Close Up shot on the shower head. The water stops pouring from the

head.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward is just out of the bathroom, wearing a white bathrobe. He

puts his towel around his neck. He bends on the armchair, and

picks up one of Vivian's bracelet. The camera pans away from the

armchair, showing Vivian's clothes and stuff scattered around,

including her blonde wig.

Edward looks at Vivian's things, then turns his head around toward

the bed. He looks at the bed for a couple of seconds without

moving, then starts walking toward the bed.

Reverse angle shot, showing Vivian asleep on her stomach in the

bed, her long red hair scattered around her head.

Edward walks away from the bed.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium full shot in the dark room. Edward is sitting behind the

desk, working, the only light in the room being the lamp on the

desk.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Early morning.

Full shot on the facade of the hotel. Two men are cleaning the

sidewalk in front of the hotel, one with a water hose, the other

one with a big broom. A uniformed attendant is watching them,

standing near the main door of the hotel. The man holding the

broom walks toward the attendant.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot of the lobby.

At his early hour, there are not many guests in the lobby of the

hotel, only a chambermaid dusting a table, and three uniformed

attendants talking together.

Barnard Thompson, the manager of the hotel, crosses the lobby,

wearing a very elegant dark suit, and carrying a black briefcase.

Barnard Thompson will be later in the film nicknames Barney by

Vivian. It is this nickname that we shall use to refer to him in

the dialogues.

He keeps on walking toward the reception desk.

Behind the desk, three clerks, two females and one male

A chambermaid is cleaning some leather armchairs around a low

table in front of the desk. Without interrupting his walk, Barney

turns his head toward her.

She waves her hand to him.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

A uniformed waiter, with white glove, is setting the breakfast

table. Edward enters the room, wearing a dark-colored night-robe,

and with a wireless telephone receiver stuck between his head and

his shoulder.

Edward signs the bill the waiter has shown to him.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Philip sitting behind the breakfast table. He is

talking to Edward on the telephone. On the table in front of him,

a cup, white china pots and a glass of orange juice.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Edward sits on a chair at the breakfast table.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

A middle-aged maid walks behind him with a glass jar of coffee,

fresh from the percolator. She wants to pour some coffee in

Philip's cup, but, with his free hand, he moves her away.

The maid walks out of the room.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The waiter leaves the room, and Vivian walks in from the bedroom,

wearing a white bathrobe.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Suddenly, Philip has a worried look on his face.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian stops in the middle of the room, behind Edward's back.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

He presses the off button on the telephone and puts it on the

table. He picks up his newspaper. Vivian has not moved from the

spot where she had stopped in the middle of the living room.

Edward turns around and smiles to Vivian.

She slightly touches her hair.

He stands up from the table.

She walks slowly to the table.

Close Up shot on the table. Edward takes off the metal lids that

were covering two plates. One has scrambled eggs and bacon, the

other one has pancakes and strawberries.

Edward puts the lids on the table. Vivian takes a pancake and

walks slowly to the terrace. She seems embarrassed.

Vivian enters the terrace.

Edward has seated himself at the breakfast table and is working on

some documents.

She comes back into the room and chuckles.

She sits down on the table near Edward.

He laughs.

He looks at her sitting on the table, and points to the chairs

around the table.

She stands up and walks to an empty chair. She sits on it with one

foot on the chair and her knee up above table level. She goes on

eating breakfast.

She almost chokes on her pancake.

He chuckles.

He doesn't answer and just smiles.

She keeps on eating and tries to peak at the documents in front of

him.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is in shirtsleeves and vest, in front of the mirror,

knotting his tie. Vivian walks in.

She sits down on the table in front of him.

She grabs his necktie and starts knotting it properly.

Close Up shot on Edward's necktie, and Vivian's hands knotting it.

Back on a medium shot of Vivian working on Edward's tie.

Close Up on Edward's tie, which is now very well knotted.

Edward puts a final hand on his tie.

She stands up and goes out of the room.

She comes back with his jacket, and helps him put in on.

He goes out of the bathroom, followed, a couple of seconds later,

by Vivian.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The breakfast has been cleared away. Philip's expensive leather

attache-case is lying on the table, supporting a big agenda.

Philip is on the phone.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot. Edward is speaking on a regular cord phone.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

In the background, we hear Vivian singing Kiss by Prince... not

very well !

The rest of the song is covered by what Philip is saying to Edward

over the phone.

Edward walks out of the bedroom, carrying the telephone set.

He chuckles in the phone.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Still carrying the phone set and with the phone receiver on his

ear, Edward enters the bathroom.

He walks to the bathtub, where Vivian is immersed in a foam-bath.

She has earphones on her ears, and she is singing with her eyes

closed.

Edward is standing near the bathtub, but Vivian, because of the

loud music in her earphones and her closed eyes, doesn't seem to

notice him.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Philip seems a bit surprised by what he hears over the telephone.

Philip tries to concentrate on what he is saying to Edward.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is still standing near the bathtub with the telephone to

his ear.

Edward snorts.

Medium shot on the bathtub, where Vivian is still singing with her

eyes closed. We see the yellow walkman lying on the bathtub edge

near her head. She is holding the water faucet with one hand.

She makes loud kisses with her mouth.

Back to Edward standing near the bathtub.

Edward starts walking around the bathtub to get closer to Vivian's

head.

High angle close-up shot on Vivian's head.

Slight low angle shot of Edward. He has put the telephone set down

somewhere, and he is looking at Vivian, smiling.

He sits down on the bathtub edge.

Back to Vivian singing in the bathtub.

She opens her eyes and notices Edward sitting on the edge of the

bathtub close to her. She laughs.

Edward also laughs looking at her.

Vivian takes off her earphones, and puts them on the edge with the

Walkman.

Vivian smiles, not believing what she just heard.

She laughs awkwardly.

He stands up.

She laughs, and dives her head underwater.

Medium full shot of Edward bending over the bathtub.

He talks louder for her to be able to hear him underwater.

She taps her feet on the bottom of the bathtub.

Closer shot of Vivian coming out of the water, her face all

covered with foam.

She brushes the foam off her face. Edward dries her face with a

white towel. She spits water and laughs.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is coming out of the bedroom, followed by Vivian. Vivian is

wearing a white bathrobe, and her head is wrapped in a white

towel.

Edward has taken his wallet out of his pocket and he is giving

several banknotes to Vivian.

Vivian looks at the thick wad of banknotes he just gave her.

Edward keeps on walking across the room, with Vivian following

him.

He stops at the breakfast table, put some documents back in his

brief-case and closes it.

He picks up his brief-case and walks to the front door.

He had almost reached the door, but he comes back to face her.

He walks to the front door.

He has opened the door but he turns around.

He goes out and closes the door. Vivian smiles and speaks very

quietly.

She laughs and runs toward the bedroom.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

She laughs and screams, and jumps on the bed. Still laughing

wildly, she rolls on the bed.

She kicks the bed with her foot. Then she remains quiet for a

couple of seconds, gets rid of the towel on her head, and sits up

on the bed.

She picks up the telephone set on the night table and puts it on

the bed.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KIT'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit is asleep with a scarf spread on her head. She is wearing a

blue T-shirt. On the night table, various fast food items. The

phone rings. Kit starts up, and gets rid of the scarf. She pushes

the covers away, and, in the bed with her, we discover a Teddy

Bear with a red sweater. She picks up the phone from the floor.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian is still seated on the bed, with the phone receiver on her

ear.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KIT'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit sits up on her bed, suddenly worried.

Kit relaxes.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KIT'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit has taken a big paper cup, with a straw stuck in it, from the

night-table.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian is getting very serious.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KIT'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit drinks some soda from her cup.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KIT'S BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit is walking around the room with the telephone receiver stuck

between her head and her shoulder.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Kit enters the kitchen and puts her soda cup on the table. The

room is a mess. Dirty dishes in the sink. Table covered with food

and junk. Clothes hanging to dry in the shower cubicle.

Kit looks for something in the mess in the sink.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian is now lying on her back with her legs on the pillow.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Kit comes out of the shower cubicle with a toothbrush in her hand.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian turns around on the bed.

She sits on the bed.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Kit is brushing her teeth while speaking on the phone.

Kit sits down, picks up a felt pen and write on the plastic stool

she is sitting on.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

She is still seated on the stool.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot. Near the reception desk, the hotel manager, Barnard

Barney Thompson is talking with an Italian male guest and an

older lady seated in a wheelchair. The Italian guest is showing a

business card to Barney and talking in Italian.

Vivian crosses the lobby, dressed in the same prostitute outfit as

the day before, but without her wig. She has her large handbag

across her shoulder and her red jacket is tied around her waist.

Barney gives her a quick look, but goes back to his conversation

with the Italian guest. He takes the card the Italian is holding.

Medium shot on the reception desk. Miss Wilson, a blonde

bespectacled receptionist girl is behind the desk.

Vivian puts an envelope on the desk.

The receptionist takes the envelope and looks at it.

Back on Barney and the Italian guests.

Vivian walks near them, with the high heels of her boots clicking

on the floor. The Italian starts pushing the wheelchair. Barney

looks at Vivian.

Reverse angle shot on the lobby. Vivian keeps on walking quite

fast, and barely avoids bumping into an uniformed hotel attendant

loaded with luggage.

Reverse angle shot on Barney still standing at the same place. He

turns his head toward the desk.

Barney turns back toward the departing Vivian.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the building of the hotel.

We hear the song Wild Women Do, performed by Natalie Cole.

The camera pans down to street level and away from the hotel into

Rodeo Drive.

RODEO DRIVE - EXTERIOR DAY

The camera pans along the expensive shop along Rodeo Drive. Many

well-dressed people are walking on the sidewalk. Several are

carrying bags from the shops.

The camera crosses the street on a crosswalk. Vivian is walking on

this crosswalk.

Vivian looks at the pedestrians, so different from the ones she is

used to see on Hollywood Boulevard.

Several quick Close Up shots on various emblems above the shops :

Louis Vuitton, Chanel, Diamonds on Rodeo Gucci

Mediums shot. Vivian stops near a jewel shops and looks in the

window at the expensive jewels. She then moves away, looking

around and smiling.

Vivian keeps on walking looking up at the emblems. She apparently

doesn't notice that several pedestrians are looking at her,

surprised by her costume.

Close shots on the beautiful clothes in the windows and then at

Vivian smiling and looking at the clothes.

A convertible BMV drives on the street. Both the male driver and

the female passenger are talking on their cell phones.

BOUTIQUE - INTERIOR DAY

A very expensive boutique. A saleswoman and an old lady are

seated on a sofa. The saleswoman is showing some items of clothing

to the old lady. Through the window, we see Vivian walking toward

the entrance of the shop.

Close shot on another saleswoman, who is arranging some flowers in

a big vase. She is very neatly dressed and looks a bit snobbish.

Vivian enters the shop. The saleswoman seated on the sofa looks up

at her.

A third saleswoman, wearing a black jacket and standing behind a

counter, looks up at Vivian. The saleswoman, who is arranging the

flowers, also looks at Vivian.

Vivian stops to look around and then walks to dresses hanging on a

rail, and starts looking at them.

The music fades out.

High angle shot on the whole shop. The saleswoman (Saleswoman #

1), who was arranging the flower, is now standing behind Vivian.

Medium shot on Vivian and the saleswoman. Vivian has moved away

from the hanging rail.

She looks at a dummy wearing a very elegant suit. The saleswoman

looks up and down at Vivian's costume, and answers with a forced

smile.

Vivian walks away to watch other items in the shop.

Vivian looks at another dummy wearing a very elegant light-colored

dress. The saleswoman (Saleswoman # 2) with the black jacket has

joined them.

The saleswoman # 1 turns toward her colleague.

She starts walking nervously around the shop.

The two saleswoman are staring at Vivian, who seems thunderstruck

by this unexpected blow. She walks to the door, and leaves the

shop.

RODEO DRIVE - EXTERIOR DAY

Vivian is walking on the sidewalk of Rodeo Drive, among the very

elegantly dressed pedestrians. She has put her red jacket back on

and is keeping it close to her waist with one hand. She walks very

nervously, and her high heels don't help her to walk in a very

elegant way.

We catch snatches of the conversations taking place around Vivian.

Vivian seems almost annoyed by those uninteresting bits of

conversation. She keeps on walking.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot in front of the hotel. Vivian is crossing the street.

Two businessmen in grey suits are talking just near the entrance

of the hotel.

Closer shot of Vivian entering the hotel under the surprised stare

of the uniformed attendant at the door.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian crosses the lobby. Barney, the manager, who was standing

near the open door of an office, walks toward her.

She keeps on walking and Barney follows her.

She stops walking and turns around to face Barney.

The elevator bell dings and the elevator door opens.

Barney nods his head.

Dennis comes out of the elevator. Vivian points at him.

Barney turns toward Dennis.

Dennis walks toward his boss.

Barney buttons the collar of Dennis' uniform.

Dennis speaks with a croaky voice, because Barney is slightly

strangling him while buttoning his uniform.

She slaps Dennis' shoulder, and moves into the elevator.

Barney moves away from Dennis and joins Vivian into the elevator.

Dennis puts his hands on his collar to open it and be able to

breathe properly.

She comes out of the elevator, with Barney holding her elbow.

They walk along the lobby, away from the elevator. Dennis looks at

them and smiles. Two business men, going into the elevator, also

look at them, surprised.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - MANAGER'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

Close Up shot on a green plant, with, next to the plant, a metal

pot that looks a bit like a coffee pot. Barney's hand takes the

pot and starts watering the plant.

Full shot of the office. Vivian is seated on a leather armchair in

front of an expensive-looking wooden desk, on which several

documents are scattered. On the left-hand side of the desk, the

total upper half of the wall is a large bay window protected from

the outside by vertical Venetian blinds. Under the bay window, a

small table on which is the plant Barney is watering.

Barney puts the pot down on the table and sits down on the desk

itself just in front of Vivian.

Barney bends his head down, and Vivian also bends her head down

before answering.

Same game of bending heads down.

Vivian shakes her head. She suddenly seems a bit tired by the

situation.

Vivian raises her hands and her voice.

Vivian takes the loose jumbled banknotes from her bag and shows

them to Barney.

Barney takes the money out of Vivian's hands, then takes a white

handkerchief out of the breast pocket of his jacket and gives it

to Vivian. Then he gives her her money back.

He walks around his desk, and picks up his telephone.

Vivian looks up, a bit surprised.

Vivian looks at him, and then takes the handkerchief and loudly

blows her nose.

Vivian looks at him and smiles.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full view of a screen, on which a film is being projected. This

film shows an aerial overview of the port of Long Beach and Los

Angeles, with a lot of industrial buildings along the wharves.

Full shot of the meeting room, with the screen in the background.

Because of the dark in the room, people around the table are only

shadows. Edward is standing up near the screen.

A young man, one of Philip's assistants, walks into the room and

to the place where Philip is seated. He bends down to whisper to

Philip.

The projection stops. Philip stands up and switches the lights on.

He sighs and turns toward the young man.

Edward looks very pensive.

Philip snickers, and looks at the young man.

Shot on another man, named Mark, seated at the table.

The young man walks toward Edward, still standing up.

Edward doesn't answer and remains pensive.

Philip sits down at the table, next to Mark.

The two men start arguing, and since they are talking loudly

together, we don't understand what they say.

Edward, with a glass of water in his hand, comes to the table and

raises his voice.

The arguments between Philip and Mark stops

Philip stands up and the young man sits down in his chair.

He drinks his water.

The young man is on the phone, trying to reach someone.

He picks up his briefcase.

He goes out of the room. Philip follows him.

Mark and the young blonde man sitting next to him are working on

the documents in front of them.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is about to enter Philip's private office. Philip is

standing behind him.

Edward turns around to face Philip.

We hear faint voices coming from the meeting room.

He enters Philip's private office. Philip turns around to go back

in the meeting room, with a worried look on his face.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - WOMEN'S CLOTHING SHOP - INTERIOR

Full shot of the Women's clothing shop inside the hotel. Several

women and even one man walking around. Counters and shelves full

of women's clothing items. Hanging rails with dresses hanging on

them.

Vivian walks into the shop and starts looking around. Bridget

comes into the shop with a Mrs Rainey, a customer.

The customer walks away and Bridget stops near Vivian who is

looking at something on a counter.

Closer shot of Vivian looking at her teeth in a mirror set on the

counter. She makes a face and brushes something off her teeth.

Bridget bends over the mirror.

They shake hands.

They both laugh.

She is ready to sit on the glass covering the counter, but Bridget

prevents her from doing so.

Larger shot showing the whole shop.

They start walking upstairs to the upper level.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Barney is going around a huge bunch of flowers, followed by two

Japanese, one male and one female. The man is speaking Japanese to

Barney. Vivian walks between them, carrying a garment bag over her

shoulder.

She quickly looks at the Japanese man.

Barney says a few words in Japanese to the Japanese guests.

She walks away, and Barney looks at her, with a slight smile on

his lips.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Vivian entering the room. She closes the door

behind her. The phone is ringing. We see the white telephone on a

low table in the forefront of the screen. Vivian drops her handbag

on the floor, rushes to the phone and picks it up.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Edward, seen from the waist up, standing up in the

reception hall of his office. He is on the phone. We occasionally

see shadows of people moving behind him.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

She sits down.

She squeezes the phone receiver between her head and her shoulder

to have a better look at the garment bag.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

He puts the phone down.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian also puts the phone down and smiles.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Larger shot of the reception hall. We discover that Edward is

standing near the reception desk, behind which a female

receptionist is sitting. Behind her on the wall, a logo and

underneath it : Lewis enterprises, inc., and below : Philip

Stuckey - Attorney.

The receptionist picks up the phone and starts dialing.

A blonde female secretary walks behind Edward and bends down to

speak to him.

The secretary walks away.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The phone rings. Vivian walks to the low table to pick it up.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Edward laughs and puts the phone down.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian also puts the phone down.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Barney standing up in the lobby with his back to

us. One of his assistant, wearing a dark suit, crosses the lobby,

followed by an uniformed attendant.

Vivian rushes toward Barney.

Barney looks at her and notices she is still wearing her

prostitute costume.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

High Angle Close Up Shot on a dinner table, showing a white china

plate with a smaller plate inside, and on either sides of the

plates, a full set of silver cutlery (three forks of various sizes

on the left-hand side of the plate, and a knife and three spoons

on the other side). In front of the plate, a napkin folded in a

glass.

We see Vivian's hand taking the napkin.

The camera pans away and we discover Vivian seated at the table in

front of the plate. She puts the napkin on her laps and then her

elbows on the table

She takes her elbows off the table.

The camera moves away from the table and we get a larger shot of

the dining room. Uniformed waiters are setting tables behind

Vivian and Barney, who is standing up behind Vivian. He points to

the different forks on the table.

The camera moves back again giving a full view of the dining room,

with Barney and Vivian's table in the forefront. A black case is

open on the table : inside a impressive collection of silver

cutlery.

Barney picks up the different forks and shows them to Vivian.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR LATE AFTERNOON

A large grey limousine is driving slowly on Rodeo Drive, and comes

to park in front of the hotel.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR LATE AFTERNOON

Edward crosses the lobby, carrying his briefcase. He stops to look

around, expecting to see Vivian waiting for him. He starts walking

again, still looking around him. Barney catches up with him.

Edward doesn't stop walking, and Barney has to talk while walking.

Edward stops at a marble shelf with a row of courtesy telephones

on it. He hardly listens to what Barney is telling him.

He picks up a telephone but keeps looking around him. He seems a

bit worried.

Edward, for the first time, looks at Barney. His finger is on the

dial of the phone, but he doesn't dial.

Edward smiles and puts down the telephone receiver which he had

already put to his ear.

Edward remains pensive for a couple of seconds before answering.

Edward picks up his briefcase which he had put on the telephone

shelf.

He walks away.

He takes his business card out of the pocket of his vest to give

it to Edward, but Edward is already gone.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOUNGE - INTERIOR NIGHT

The lounge of the hotel is a cosy place with potted green plants,

comfortable armchair and soft piano music.

Medium shot of Edward entering the lounge. The camera then follows

Edward crossing the lounge toward the bar.

Larger shot of the lounge, with the bar in the background. There

are not many people at this early time of the evening.

Medium shot of the bar. Only one person is seated on a stool at

the bar. Even if we see only her back, we guess she is Vivian. But

Edward doesn't seem to recognize her, because he keeps looking

around for her.

As Edward is looking the other way from the bar, Vivian turns

around and looks at him. Edward walks a couple of steps toward the

door, and then turns around and eventually notices Vivian.

Medium shot on Edward. There is a look of surprise in Edward's

eyes when he recognizes Vivian.

Back to Vivian still seated at the bar. She doesn't look like the

Vivian we were used to see. She is wearing a very elegant dark-

colored cocktail dress. Her hair also has been very elegantly

styled.

Edward looks at her without moving for a few seconds.

She stands up from the bar and walks toward him.

She laughs.

He gives her his arm. She puts her arm inside his arm and they

walk across the lounge toward the exit.

RESTAURANT LE VOLTAIRE - INTERIOR NIGHT

High angle shot of the whole restaurant. It looks like a very

expensive place. Tables are scattered around the room and on the

gallery, but not too close to one another. In the middle of the

room, a larger table used only by the waiters.

We see Edward and Vivian crossing the room, with a maitre d'hotel

walking in front of them.

Closer high angle shot of Vivian and Edward walking toward a table

where two men, an old one and a younger one, are already seated.

The two men stand up. The older one is James Jim Morse and the

younger one is his grandson, David Morse.

They shake hands.

She shakes hands with both men.

The maitre d'hotel pulls the chair for Vivian. The men wait for

Vivian to be seated to sit down. Vivian has James Morse on her

right, Edward on her left, and David in front of her.

She stands up. Immediately, the maitre d'hotel pulls her chair,

and the three men stand up, to Vivian's surprise.

She smiles to the two other men.

The two Morse men smile back to her.

She starts walking away.

She turns around.

She stops, exhales, and says, in a more polite tone :

She walks away. The three men sit down.

Close Up shot on a plate being laid in front of one of the guests.

On the plate, four appetizers, actually four canapes.

The camera moves up from the plate to the guest's face. The guest

is Vivian, and she looks a bit worried by what has been brought to

her.

Vivian turns to Edward.

David looks at Vivian, a bit surprised by what she just said.

Edward whispers to Vivian

David smiles.

Vivian takes one of her forks and looks at it, then she puts it

back.

Sensing Vivian's embarrassment, James Morse smiles to her.

He points to the different forks around his plate. Vivian laughs.

David seems a bit annoyed by the fact that the conversation keeps

on deviating on menial subjects.

James Morse takes one of the canapes with his fingers and eats it.

Vivian smiles, and also takes the canape with her fingers. She

wipes something out of it before eating it.

Edward smiles. He is happy that Vivian and James are getting along

so well.

Close Up on the table in front of Vivian. We see the waiter's hand

putting down a plate of snails in their shells.

Vivian looks at the snails and then at the waiter.

David seems more and more annoyed by the situation with Vivian.

Edward looks at Vivian.

David bends down on the table. His grandfather looks at him.

Vivian is trying to figure out how to work the snail pincers.

Edward looks at David

Edward is trying to mime to Vivian how to use the snail pincers.

Closer shot on James Morse.

Vivian is still fighting with her snail pincers.

Close Up on Vivian's plate and her hands trying to use the snail

pincers.

James Morse looks at Edward.

Eventually, Vivian had succeeded in fitting one snail into the

snail pincers, but it flies away from the pincers.

The waiter, a white-hair man with a gentle face, catches it.

Edward looks at the waiter and then at Vivian.

Both Morse gentlemen smile.

Close Up on the table in front of Vivian. A ball of green ice

cream, in a silver cup, is being put down on the table.

Medium shot on the Morse gentlemen.

Vivian bits in a piece of leaf that was on the table, makes a

face, and takes it out of her mouth.

Medium shot on James Morse. Then medium shots on whomever is

talking.

Quick shots at Edward with a slight ironical smile on his face,

and then at Vivian, looking embarrassed.

David slams his napkin on the table

He stands up and walks away.

He stands up.

Edward stands up. James Morse comes close to him.

He walks away.

Vivian looks more and more embarrassed.

He sits down.

Two waiters puts down plates in front of Edward and Vivian.

He makes a sign to the waiters who were wondering about the

missing guests.

From her purse, Vivian takes out a little ketchup sealed pack, as

found in fast food restaurants, and starts tearing it open.

Edwards looks at her and smiles.

Close Up on Vivian's plate, where there are a piece of meat, a cob

of corn, a jacket potato sliced in two halves, and some salad. We

see Vivian's hand pouring ketchup from the pack on her meat.

Medium shot on the maitre d'hotel walking toward the waiter and

whispering in his ear. The waiter nods his head toward Vivian.

Close Up on Vivian's plate. She spread the ketchup on her meat

with her fork.

The maitre d'hotel walks away, bobbing his head in a deprecating

manner.

Vivian looks around and senses that something is wrong.

Edward smiles and looks at the waiter.

The waiter smiles.

The waiter walks away to get the check.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on Vivian's bare feet putting on leather slippers.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Edward, still wearing his jacket and tie, is seated at the

entrance of the terrace, the back of his chair against the open

French window.

Vivian walks toward him, still wearing her cocktail dress.

He looks down at the feet of his chair.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium shot of the terrace seen from the open French window.

Vivian sits down on the balustrade of the terrace.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Edward points his finger toward Vivian.

She starts leaning back a little.

She takes her hands off the balustrade, and waves them up in the

air.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The terrace seen from the open French window.

She sits back and holds the balustrade with both hands.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Edward is smiling.

Edward looks at her with an ironical smile on his face.

Vivian sighs and smiles.

Vivian looks embarrassed.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The terrace seen from the open French window.

Vivian drops down from the balustrade, walks toward Edward and

kneels down beside his chair.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close Shot of Edward and Vivian.

He stands up.

He strokes her chin very delicately. She stands up.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Later in the night.

Close Up on the TV screen. We see the closing scene of the film

Charade, directed in 1963 by musical comedy actor Stanley Donen.

Regina (played by Audrey Hepburn) is talking with Peter (played by

Cary Grant).

Regina throws her arms around Peter's neck

The picture from the film, who was filling the whole TV screen,

suddenly becomes a smaller one in the center of the TV screen.

Four other pictures, from four other films, appears in each corner

of the TV screen.

The camera moves back and we see the back of the sofa. There is

some stirring in the sofa, and we see Vivian's arm holding the

remote control and pressing on a button. The TV shuts off.

Close Up on Vivian's hand putting the remote control down next to

a clock that says three o'clock.

Medium shot on Vivian, wearing a white bathrobe, and putting her

hand through her hair. She picks up the telephone next to the

sofa, and presses a button on the telephone set.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on the door of the elevator. It opens, revealing

Dennis, the elevator attendant, and, behind him, Vivian in her

white bathrobe. He takes her by the arm and guides her away from

the elevator.

They cross the lobby, where, at this time of the night, there are

only uniformed maids cleaning the place. Dennis guides Vivian to

the door of a room, from which piano music is coming out.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - MUSIC LOUNGE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the room, which is very dark. In the background, we

see a stage with music stands on it. In front of the stage,

Edward, in shirtsleeves, is playing on a concert piano.

Closer shot on Edward playing the piano.

The actor Richard Gere, who plays the character of Edward,

actually plays live on the piano in that sequence. More, he

composed the piece he is playing.

Medium shot on the cleaning crew listening to him while working.

Vivian walks slowly toward the piano.

She stops behind Edward and folds her arms. Edward stops playing.

Full shot of the room. The cleaning crew applauds Edward. Vivian

walks closer to the piano.

Closer shot on the piano. Vivian leans on the piano.

Edward turns around.

Full shot of the room. The cleaning crew is leaving the room.

Close Up shot on Vivian's face.

Medium shot. Edward grabs Vivian by the waist and sets her in

front of him. We hear the piano keys as they are pounded by

Vivian's buttocks. Edward puts his forehead on Vivian's belly.

Vivian, her hand on his hair, looks down at him, with a strange

expression in her eyes.

Edward looks up and starts untying Vivian's bathrobe belt. Under

the bathrobe, Vivian is still wearing her cocktail dress.

Close Up on Vivian's face as Edward lifts her dress up.

Edward grabs her, lifts her, and sits her on the piano. We hear

the piano keys being pounded by Vivian's feet.

Edward strokes her hair. He wants to kiss her, but she moves away.

Eventually, she puts her head into his neck, and kisses him on the

neck.

The bathrobe has fallen down on the piano. Edward spreads Vivian's

legs apart, and squeezes himself between those open legs.

Vivian lies down on the piano, while Edward is having sex with

her.

The camera slowly moves away from the piano, giving us a full shot

of the entire room.

We hear the piano key being pounded, and the camera goes down

behind some unspecified piece of furniture, making a fade-out to

black screen.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian is asleep in bed. We hear the curtains being pulled, and we

see the daylight coming on Vivian's face. Vivian wakes up, scratch

her head and looks around her.

Edward sits on the bed, and Vivian turns around to face him.

Edward has a MasterCard in his hand. He shows it to Vivian.

Vivian takes the card and sits up in bed.

Edward ties his shoelaces.

Edward looks very surprised. Vivian nods Yes.

RODEO DRIVE - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot of Edward and Vivian crossing the street, holding

hands. Vivian is still wearing her blue very short skirt, but the

upper half of her body is covered by a white shirt, knotted at the

waist and with the sleeves rolled back on her arms. She is also

wearing regular woman's shoes, so she doesn't look like a

prostitute any more.

They now walk on the sidewalk.

He stops walking and Vivian also stops.

She spits her gum, almost hitting two female pedestrians. One of

them jumps up.

Edward pulls her by the hand and they enter an expensive clothing

store.

CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Vivian and Edward standing near a hanging rail full

of dresses. Edward is holding Vivian's hand, who seems a little

embarrassed. A young well-dressed man approaches them : he is Mr.

Hollister, the manager of the store.

Edward shakes hand with him.

Vivian joins the two men with a broad smile.

Vivian puts her head on Edward's shoulder.

Hollister understand he has made a blunder.

Edward takes Hollister's elbow and walks slightly away.

Vivian smiles behind Edward.

Later.

Medium shot of Vivian seated in a comfortable armchair with a

catalogue on her laps and Hollister kneeling at her side.

Vivian smiles.

Hollister makes a sign with his hand.

Full shot of the store. In the forefront, Edward is standing

behind a counter with a cordless telephone in his hand. He dials

on the telephone.

He stands up. A saleswoman is running toward Vivian with a dress

in her hands. She puts it on Vivian's laps, who puts the catalogue

away.

Another saleswoman, also with a dress in her hand, is coming from

the other side.

Medium shot on Edward behind the counter. In the background, we

hear female voices, but we don't understand the words.

Hollister walks toward Edward.

Edward takes the phone to his ear, and Hollister walks away.

We hear the orchestral music from the title song : Pretty Woman

Vivian is still seated on her armchair, looking at all the clothes

that the saleswomen are bringing to her.

She has a very bright red dress in her hand and she looks at

Edward.

Edward makes a face and nods No.

A saleswoman put a black hat on Vivian's head.

Edward smiles and nods Yes.

Hollister sits down near Vivian and a saleswoman brings a grey

dress. Vivian points to the dress and looks at Edward.

Edward makes a face and a So-So sign with his hand.

Slightly later.

Edward is standing near the counter, drinking coffee. In the

background, we see Vivian surrounded by saleswomen. Hollister

walks toward Edward.

The music stops.

Edward has put the coffee cup down and has taken the telephone

again. He turns toward Hollister.

He points toward the group of saleswomen surrounding Vivian.

He walks away from Edward and toward the group of saleswomen.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - PHILIP'S ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Philip sits down behind his desk and talks into the hand-free

telephone.

CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot of Edward on the phone, with Vivian trying on new

clothes in the background.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - PHILIP'S ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - PHILIP'S ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

He presses a button on the telephone set to cut the call.

CLOTHING STORE - INTERIOR DAY

Edward gives his credit card to Vivian. Vivian is now dressed in a

very elegant brown suit, with a grey shirt underneath.

He walks toward the exit of the store, and near Hollister.

Slightly later.

We hear the song Oh, Pretty Woman, performed by Roy Orbison.

Vivian, wearing a black short dress, is dancing on the rhythm of

the music, surrounded by two saleswomen.

Vivian comes out of a dressing cubicle, wearing a black sweater

and brown pants.

Close Up shot of Vivian's back putting a beige silk blouse on.

Vivian, wearing a light pink suit, whirls round.

Vivian, wearing a white blouse, looks at some pieces of lingerie.

Vivian, wearing a brown dress with white dots, whirls round.

Close Up of Vivian's leg putting hoses on.

The volume of the music goes down.

Another department of the store : the shoe department. Vivian,

wearing a white suit with thin vertical stripes, is surrounded by

shoes. Hollister is kneeling beside her, and a salesman is helping

her try a new pair of shoes. Vivian smiles and looks at the

necktie worn by the salesman.

Hollister turns toward his salesman.

He starts taking off his tie.

A saleswoman walks toward them, carrying a large pizza in an open

cardboard box. Hollister looks worried.

But Vivian seems very happy about the pizza.

The volume of the music goes back up.

RODEO DRIVE - EXTERIOR DAY

Close Up on a white parasol with flowers printed on it, looking a

bit Japanese. The parasol moves away from us and we discovers we

are back on Rodeo Drive.

The camera moves away from the parasol, and Vivian appears on the

screen. She is wearing a very elegant white suit, long white

gloves, and a black hat.

The camera backs up away from Vivian, and we notice she is

carrying several bags, certainly full of clothes. Men turn their

head to look at her.

BOUTIQUE - INTERIOR DAY

We are back inside the boutique, from which Vivian was very rudely

ejected, the day before, by some snobbish saleswomen. Through the

shop window, we see Vivian walking on the sidewalk.

She stops and looks inside the boutique.

The camera moves from the window to the street door of the

boutique.

The volume of the music goes down, as Vivian enters the shop.

Saleswoman # 2 walks toward her.

Vivian keeps on walking until she reaches Saleswoman # 1, who is

working on a hanging rail. Saleswoman # 1 was the one who actually

ejected Vivian from the boutique.

The saleswoman has a broad smile.

Apparently, the saleswoman doesn't recognize this very elegant

woman as being the one she was rude to the day before.

Vivian shows her all the bags she is carrying.

She walks away, leaving the saleswoman with a very surprised look

on her face.

The volume of the music goes back up.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

A uniformed attendant enters the lobby, carrying Vivian's shopping

bags. Behind him Vivian walks in.

The camera moves across the lobby, until it reaches Barney, the

managers, talking to two of his employees, one uniformed male and

one female. He has not noticed Vivian yet, because she is coming

behind him.

Suddenly he sees her, and immediately stops talking to his

employees.

Reverse angle shot of Vivian's back, walking behind the uniformed

attendant, toward the elevator.

Reverse angle shot on Barney, smiling.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot. Vivian has put the bags she was carrying on the

table, but has kept her purse, a vey elegant black leather item.

She opens it, takes some money out of it, and gives the money to

the uniformed attendant, who helped her carry her shopping bags.

The attendant smiles.

The attendant walks away. Vivian takes her hat off and falls into

an armchair.

End of the music.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

The modern building, where Edward's office in L.A. is located. The

number above the main entrance says 333. We hear male voices

over. We don't understand everything they are saying.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Edward is standing up with his briefcase, smiling to the men of

his team around him. He moves to his chair at the meeting table.

Philip is trying to herd all his assistants out of the room.

Edward sits down. A blonde secretary joins the leaving group.

They all go out, leaving Edward and Philip alone.

He sits down next to Edward.

Edward seems to be very pensive.

He puts his hands on the telephone.

Still, a very tepid reaction from Edward. He just takes a small

glass and puts it in front of him on the table.

Philip looks at Edward with a worried look. He stands up.

Edward has put another glass on top of the first one, and now he

puts a third one on top of the two other ones.

He puts a fourth glass on top of the other ones. Philip sighs.

Edward looks up at Philip.

He moves the telephone toward Edward. Edward just smiles but

doesn't pick up the phone.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close Up on a big Hi-Fi tuner-amplifier. We see Vivian's hand

setting the power on. Lights appear on the amplifier screen. A

sign says 102.70 Mhz. We hear some soft easy music. Vivian's

hand sets the volume a little higher.

Medium shot on a table, on which everything has been set for a

dinner for two. Three candlesticks with lighted red candles in

them are also set on the table. Vivian is seated on one of the

chair by the table. We see her from the back, but she seems to be

almost naked, except for what looks like a tie around her neck.

We hear a door opening, and then closing. Vivian puts her feet up

on the table. She is wearing black shoes. She puts the end of the

tie on the table : it is the tie she took from the salesman in the

store.

Edward crosses the room, without apparently noticing Vivian.

Edward stops and looks at her.

PENTHOUSE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close up shot on the bathtub faucet. We see Vivian's foot reaching

for the faucet, and the thumb of the foot trying to fit inside the

faucet.

Close Up on Edward naked chest floating in the bathtub. Vivian's

hand is rubbing a washcloth on the chest.

Medium shot on Vivian lying in the tub with Edward lying on top of

her. Her legs are spread open and her knees comes out of the water

on either side of Edward's body.

Vivian puts the washcloth down on the edge of the tub. She takes a

sponge.

Close Up shot on Edward's chest. Vivian rubs it with the sponge.

Medium shot of the tub seen from the foot of the tub.

Vivian laughs, and Edward smiles.

The camera moves slowly around the bathtub.

Now the camera has come near the faucet.

Edward takes Vivian's hand in his.

Medium shot of Edward and Vivian in the tub.

She brings her feet up and wraps her legs around Edward's body.

LOS ANGELES EQUESTRIAN CENTER - EXTERIOR DAY

Close Up shot on the lawn of the polo field. We hear an air-horn

blowing, and horses galloping.

The small polo white ball is in the middle of the shot. We see the

hooves of several horses approaching the ball. Then a mallet comes

down and strikes the ball away.

Medium shot on horse-backed players galloping on the field.

We hear the announcer on the Public Address.

Full shot of the field, with the camera on ground level, showing

the horses coming toward us.

Full shot of the players on the field.

Medium shot of spectators watching the game. They are all very

well-dressed, and evidently belong to the upper class of society.

Full shot of a lawn used as a parking lot with car parked among

people sitting in folding chairs and picnicking.

Philip and his wife Elizabeth are crossing the lawn. Philip is

carrying a basket and Elisabeth is carrying a large piece of

printed cloth, to be used as a tablecloth to picnic on it.

Elizabeth is ready to set the cloth at the foot of a tree.

Polo players are galloping in the background. A couple approaches

Philip and Elizabeth. They all shake hands.

Medium shot on Edward and Vivian standing near a car. Edward is

wearing a very elegant light-grey suit, and Vivian is wearing the

brown dress with white dots that we've seen her buy on Rodeo

Drive. She's also wearing a very elegant beige hat with a ribbon

matching her dress. And Edward is wearing the necktie Vivian gave

him.

Larger shot of the couple.

He puts his hands around Vivian's waist, to grab her hands behind

her back.

She eventually let him take her hands.

Medium shot on the couple. She makes a face. He takes her hand and

drags her behind him

She makes a broad smile, and walks behind him.

Close shot on the players on the field.

On the edge of the field, two well-dressed gentlemen, a young one

and and older one, are watching the game.

The two gentlemen walk away from the field. The camera follows

them around a platform with a canopy above it. On the platform,

the announcer, a white-haired gentleman, is sitting at a table in

front of a microphone. On the other side of the platform, the

camera lets the two gentlemen go on their way and stops on a group

of four people : Edward, Vivian, Gwen and Gretchen. The two last

ones are the Olsen sisters, two very elegant blonde women, known

to be the gossip champions of Los Angeles upper class society.

Gwen is seated on a chair on the platform, next to the announcer,

when Gretchen is standing at the foot of the platform.

He walks away and Vivian remains with the Olsen sisters. In the

background, a waiter is working on a buffet table.

She turns back to the man seated in front of the microphone.

Vivian looks a little disturbed by what Gwen just said.

Vivian nods her head and answers Gretchen with a sardonic tone.

She walks away. Gretchen laughs.

Medium shot on the edge of the field. A middle-aged couple is

seated on two chairs and looks at the game. Edward is standing

behind them. The couple claps their hands and yell to support

their favorite team. Vivian joins Edward behind the couple. Edward

claps his hands.

Vivian claps her hands louder than Edward, and then yells with

wide movements of her hand.

Close shot on the couple, who turns around to look at her.

Close shot on Edward and Vivian

We hear an air-horn blowing noisily.

Close Up on the field. We see the legs of a horse galloping on the

field.

Larger shot on the field with the horses galloping on it.

Medium shot on a group of spectators under an open tent. Among

them, Philip, with sunglasses on his nose, and a glass of

Champagne in his hand. He leaves the group.

Larger shot on another open tent across the lawn from the other

one. Philip comes in and joins his wife.

Edward walks in with Vivian. He shakes hands with Philip.

Vivian shakes hands with Philip, then with Elizabeth.

A very elegant blonde lady walks toward them and then away from

them. Elizabeth turns around to look at her.

She runs after Tate.

The two men and Vivian watch her go.

He gives his Champagne glass to Vivian.

He walks away.

Medium shot on the announcer's platform. Gwen Olsen is speaking in

the microphone.

Medium shot on a group of spectators, who are walking under the

white ribbon which separates the audience from the polo field.

Medium shot on guests seated around a table. They all stand up,

some still carrying their glass of Champagne.

Medium full shot on the field. All those very elegant people from

the upper class society, with their glass of Champagne in hand,

stomps, with their feet, on the divots on the field.

Close shot on the feet of the guests, stomping on the divots.

Close Up on a very elegant high-heel shoe putting a divot back in

place.

Medium full shot of the announcer's platform. The white-haired

gentleman is sitting at the table on the platform, with Gwen at

his side. But he is not talking in the microphone. Another bearded

man, standing in front of the platform, is talking in a wireless

microphone. In front of the platform, people are walking under the

white ribbon to go on the field.

Medium full shot of Philip, alone in front of a row of empty white

folding chairs, sneezing and blowing his nose into a white

handkerchief.

Long high-angle shot of the field, where the guests are stomping

the divots.

Close shot on Vivian, without her hat, stomping the divots and

smiling.

Medium shot on Elizabeth, with a glass of Champagne in hand,

talking to Edward

Back on Vivian, stomping the divots.

Back on Edward and Elizabeth.

Elizabeth looks a bit surprised by Edward's joke.

Back on Vivian stomping the divots. Edward joins her.

Medium shot of Philip, seated on a chair, and looking at Vivian

and Edward.

Back to Vivian and Edward stomping the divots. Vivian laughs very

loudly, and Edward takes her in his arms.

Close shot on Philip, who seemed worried by what he sees.

Medium full shot of Vivian seated on the trunk of a red

convertible car. Her hat is on the trunk near her. A man takes one

of Vivian's shoes off to clean it. A woman is standing near the

car, watching the scene.

He looks at a dirty spot on the shoe.

He walks away with the shoe.

Medium shot on David Morse walking toward Vivian. He is wearing

his polo player outfit : red shirt, with the name of his team

L.A. Gems and his number in the team 2, and white pants. He is

holding his helmet, his leather gloves and his riding crops in one

hand.

Medium shot of Vivian, still seated on the car. She smiles. The

woman, who was talking with her, walks away.

Vivian takes her hat, jumps from the car down on the ground, and

walks toward David.

David looks at the hat Vivian is holding

Medium shot on Philip watching Vivian talking with David Morse.

His wife Elizabeth joins him.

Reverse angle shot on what Philip sees : David and Vivian talking

together, seen from a distance. We can't hear what they are

saying.

Back on Philip. Elizabeth gives Philip a kiss on the cheek

Elizabeth understands that Philip has not heard a word of what she

just said.

Elizabeth walks away, looking a bit furious.

Back on Vivian and David, as watched by Philip. They are now

standing in front of David's horse, held by a young blonde girl.

She walks toward the horse, looking back to watch for Edward.

Medium shot of Philip and Edward walking between the stands.

They stop walking in front of a stand, where waiters are pouring

Champagne for the guests.

Different angle medium shot showing, behind Edward's back, Vivian

to David in the background. Edward turns around to look at them.

Medium close shot on Edward looking at Vivian, and Philip, looking

at Edward, with an inquisitive expression in his eye.

Closer shot on David and Vivian talking together near the horse,

still held by the young girl.

Back on Edward and Philip talking together.

Philip laughs.

He keeps on laughing louder. He snorts.

Edward walks toward Senator Adams, who is calling him. Philip

keeps on laughing.

Medium shot on the Senator. Edward walks to him and shakes his

hand.

Back on Philip, who walks away with a laughing face.

Back on Edward with the senator.

Medium shot on Vivian, standing near a tree, with her hat in her

hand. She is smiling.

Philip walks behind her. Vivian stops smiling.

She smiles again.

She stops smiling and shows a very sad and worried face.

He touches her bare arm with his sunglasses.

We sense that Vivian feels like crying, but she masters her

emotions and looks at Philip.

He puts the tip of his fingers on her bare shoulder.

Philip turns around to look at his wife. Then he walks away.

Vivian remains on the same spot, with a very sad face.

Close shot on Edward looking at Vivian. He smiles.

Back to Vivian. She doesn't look at Edward and keeps the same

sullen sad face.

Applause and air horn blowing.

Vivian crosses her arms, but doesn't look at Edward.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Medium shot on the main door. It opens and Edward comes in,

followed by Vivian.

Vivian closes the door, and Edward looks at his mail lying on a

small table. Vivian throws her hat and gloves on another table

with a nervous movement. Edward turns around to look at her.

She walks away.

Edward picks up his mail and newspaper, and walks behind her.

The camera follows Edward in the room. In the background, across

the open door of the bedroom, we see Vivian entering the bathroom.

She slams the bathroom door.

Edward drops his mail and newspapers on the desk.

Vivian opens the bathroom door, and stands near the open door.

Edward walks toward her. The camera follows him.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Edward takes his jacket off.

Edward sits down on the bed.

Edward starts unlacing his shoes. Vivian walks away toward the

living room. The camera follows her.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Vivian is trying unsuccessfully to open a bottle of Coca-Cola. In

the background, Edward is still sitting on the bed, taking his

shoes off.

Edward stands up and walks toward Vivian.

She puts the unopened bottle back on the table.

She walks away toward the bedroom.

He walks behind her.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Vivian was ready to enter the bathroom, but she turns around.

She walks away into the bathroom

He walks toward the bathroom, enters it and starts taking his tie

off in front of the mirror.

Vivian comes back to the bathroom door, carrying a bunch of

clothes.

She gets out of the bathroom with her arms full of clothes. She

picks up a small handbag and puts it on her shoulder. Then she

tries to pick up a larger handbag.

Close shot on the handbag, stuck under an armchair. We notice that

Vivian is bare feet.

Vivian finally succeeds in picking up the bag and put the straps

over her shoulder, on top of the smaller bag. Edward walks out of

the bathroom and joins her.

She crosses her arms on her bunch of clothes. She has a very

sullen, sad face. Edward doesn't move for a couple of seconds,

then walks to the bed, to pick up his jacket. He gets his wallet

from the inside pocket of his jacket. He opens the wallet, and

gets a large wad of banknotes out of it.

Close up shot on the bed. We see the wad of banknotes falling on

the bed. They are all hundred-dollar bills.

Edward walks away toward the living room, and Vivian remains

without moving with her sullen sad face. She looks down at the

bed.

Close up shot on the wad of banknotes on the bed.

Back to Vivian, who hasn't moved. She starts walking away toward

the living room, without taking her money.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Edward is standing near the desk, looking at his mail. Vivian

walks behind him, coming from the bedroom and going away toward

the front door. We hear the door opening. Edward looks up toward

the door. The door closes, and Edward looks very pensive. He looks

back into the bedroom.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Close up on the bed, where the wad of banknotes is still lying.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - PENTHOUSE HALLWAY - INTERIOR

Medium shot on Vivian, standing near the elevator, and nervously

pressing on the elevator call button.

Medium close shot on Vivian. We hear the penthouse door opening,

but Vivian doesn't look at it and keeps looking at the elevator in

front of her.

Larger shot. Edward is coming out of the penthouse, and he has

left the door open. He walks toward Vivian.

He chuckles.

The elevator bell dings. The elevator door opens, and a smiling

Dennis appears.

Close shot on Edward's face, and then on Vivian's face.

Dennis feels some tension between Edward and Vivian and stops

smiling. He goes back into the elevator, presses a button and the

door closes.

They look at each other for a couple of seconds, then slowly,

Vivian walks back to the penthouse. Edward follows her and takes

one of her handbags from her shoulder. They both enters the

penthouse and he closes the door behind him.

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

High angle shot above the bed. Edward and Vivian are lying in the

bed, presumably naked, but covered by a sheet from their waist

down. They are facing each other and talking.

Slowly, the camera moves closer to them.

The camera stops moving forward, having reached a medium close

shot, showing Vivian and Edward's heads and shoulders.

Close shot on Vivian's face.

Reverse shot on Edward's face.

Reverse shot on Vivian's face.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot on the building, seen from across the street.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot on Philip, standing in front of the desk, and

talking to the receptionist girl.

He walks away from the desk.

A blonde female secretary walks into the room, carrying a thick

pile of documents.

Philip walks nervously across the room.

He meets Edward coming out of an office.

He stops at the reception desk.

He starts walking out of the room.

Edward stops walking. He doesn't seem very happy by what Philip

just said. He slowly turns around, facing Philip.

He walks away. Philip slowly turns around and walks into his

office.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR EVENING

Medium shot of Edward standing in front of the closed bedroom

door. He is very elegantly dressed in black tuxedo and bow-tie.

When he hears the bedroom door opening, he crosses his arm and

leans on the bar.

The door opens and Vivian appears. She is very elegantly dressed

in a long red evening dress. She is also wearing long white

gloves. She walks into the room. She stops in front of Edward and

faces him. Edward moves around her.

She looks at herself and at her tight-fitting dress.

Edward picks up a mauve-colored box on the bar.

He opens the box : it's a jewel box. Vivian comes closer to the

box and looks into it. What she sees looks like a very beautiful

and expensive necklace. She moves her hand to touch delicately the

necklace, but Edward snaps the lid of the box shut, almost

squeezing her finger into it.

She bursts out laughing loudly. Edward opens the box again.

Close shot in front of a mirror. Edward is fixing the necklace

around Vivian's neck.

Vivian laughs nervously.

Edward turns around Vivian, and his black-colored back blocks

completely our view of the scene, making some sort of fade-out /

fade-in with the next scene.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - ELEVATOR - INTERIOR EVENING

Edward's back is still blocking completely our view of the scene.

But then Edward moves to stand beside Vivian in the back of the

cabin of the elevator. She is carrying a small golden purse.

Close shot on Dennis standing near the door of the cabin, and

smiling.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR EVENING

We hear the beginning of the orchestral music of Fallen, written

and performed by Lauren Wood.

Vivian and Edward are getting out of the elevator and they start

crossing the lobby. Dennis comes out of the elevator to have a

better look.

Medium full shot on a desk. Two uniformed attendant are standing

near the desk. Another man, wearing a suit, is standing behind the

desk, and checking things in an open ledger. All three of them

look at the passing couple.

Vivian and Edward keep on walking across the lobby. He looks at

her. She touches her necklace.

Medium shot on the reception desk. Miss Wilson and another female

receptionist are standing behind the desk, talking with a guest.

They look at the couple and smile.

Barney is standing near a wall tapestry, talking to a guest. He

looks at the couple and seems very happy by what he sees.

Back on Vivian and Edward crossing the lobby.

Vivian laughs.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR EVENING

The big grey limousine, that Edward uses all the time, is leaving

the curb in front of the hotel.

Close shot on the front left wheel of the limousine.

BURBANK AIRPORT - EXTERIOR EVENING

Long shot of the airport. The limousine enters the airport field,

and stops near a corporate jet plane. A red carpet is lying on the

ground between the limousine and the plane.

Medium full shot on the car. Edward comes out of the back of the

limousine. Darryl comes out of the driver's door and holds the

door for Vivian, who looks surprised to see the plane.

Darryl closes the back door, and stands near the car.

Edward walks, on the red carpet, toward the plane, followed by

Vivian. They talk together, but the lyrics of the song cover their

voices.

Long shot on the runway, with the corporate jet plane taking off.

The camera follows the plane.

ABOVE LOS ANGELES - EXTERIOR EVENING

The jet plane is flying above L.A., with the sun setting down in

the background.

SAN FRANCISCO - AERIAL VIEW - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Extreme long aerial shot of San Francisco.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Medium long shot of the main entrance of the opera house, with the

cars coming and going and dropping the spectators.

End of the music.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - LOBBY - INTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot on the lobby, which is almost empty. Apparently, Edward

and Vivian are among the last spectators. Vivian, who seems a bit

nervous, is holding Edward's arm very tightly.

They walk near a stand, where a girl, wearing black tuxedo and

bow-tie, is distributing programs. Edward takes a program.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - BOX - INTERIOR NIGHT

The camera pans, from right to left, a succession of private boxes

in the medium upper level of the theatre. All the men are wearing

black tuxedoes and bow-ties, and all the women are wearing very

elegant and very expensive evening dresses.

We hear the instruments of the orchestra warming up.

The third box is empty, but an usher shows Edward and Vivian

through the door of the box.

Vivian enters first, followed by Edward. Vivian looks down from

the balustrade of the box. Edward shakes hand with Doris, an old

lady in the next box.

The camera starts going away and down from the box.

He shakes hands with Doris' husband.

Meanwhile, Vivian has moved to the corner of the balustrade.

Medium close shot on the box. Edward, who, as we already know it,

is afraid of heights, doesn't want to move any closer to the

balustrade.

He sits down, and Vivian also sits down. The ushers, who had

remained behind them, slightly bends down toward Edward.

He shows them something underneath the balustrade, and then moves

away.

She picks up the opera glasses.

She tries to look through the glasses, but doesn't succeed in

setting them right on their handle.

Edward takes the glasses from Vivian's hand.

He sets them right on their handle, and gives them back to Vivian.

Vivian looks through the glasses, while the lights are switching

off and on, to warn the spectators that the opera is about to

begin.

Mediums full shot on the two next boxes on the right of Edward's

box. The spectators, who understood the lights signal, are sitting

down.

Back to Edward's box. Medium close shot on Vivian and Edward.

Vivian is looking through her glasses.

Medium shot on the two other boxes. The light are definitely

switched off, and ushers are closing the curtains on the exit

doors.

Back to Vivian and Edward. We hardly see them in the dark.

The orchestra plays the overture of La Traviata.

The lights, coming from the stage, enable us to see Vivian and

Edward's faces. Vivian is smiling broadly. Edward is concentrated

on the music and serious.

Close shot on Vivian's face. Still smiling broadly, she turns

briefly toward Edward, and then goes back looking at the stage.

She bends down on the balustrade to have a better look at the

stage.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - STAGE - INTERIOR NIGHT

The sets and the costumes are beautiful and very classic in their

design. We see and hear the Love Duet of Act One in Violetta's

sitting room.

Violetta walks to the forefront of the stage, and the camera moves

away from her, showing, seen from the stage, Edward and Vivian in

their box.

The picture and the music dissolve to the Second Act in Violetta's

garden. Violetta is bending on Alfredo and singing.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - BOX - INTERIOR NIGHT

Low angle shot of the box. Vivian turns toward Edward, and then

look back at the stage. Edward looks at her.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - STAGE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium close shot on Violetta and Alfredo, in each other's arms.

Violetta keeps on singing.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - BOX - INTERIOR NIGHT

Closer low angle shot on Edward an Vivian. The camera tilts up

toward their faces.

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - STAGE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Violetta kisses Alfredo on the mouth, and then walks away.

The music dissolves on the Final Scene of the Third Act, and the

picture dissolves on :

SAN FRANCISCO OPERA HOUSE - BOX - INTERIOR NIGHT

Medium close shot of Vivian and Edward. The camera moves closer to

Vivian's face : she is crying.

Close shot on Edward's face : he looks at Vivian.

Back on Vivian's face, crying.

Back on Edward's face.

Medium close shot on their both faces, seen in profile from their

right.

Last orchestral notes and applauses.

Medium shot on Doris' box. Doris and her female friend are

applauding, sitting in front of the balustrade. The two husbands

are standing up behind them and also applauding.

Back to Edward's box. Close shot of Vivian standing up. She still

has tears in her eyes. She walks away from her seat, coming near

Doris' box.

She seems a bit surprised by what she just heard. Vivian walks

away, and Edward turns toward Doris.

Edward walks away, leaving a very pensive Doris. Apparently she

doesn't completely believe Edward's translation of Vivian's

words !

Still very pensive, Doris absently waves her hand to him.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Long shot from across the street. We see the limousine parking in

front of the hotel.

Medium long shot on the limousine parking. We hear Edward and

Vivian's conversation in voices over.

Vivian laughs, still in voice over.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Vivian and Edward are seated on either side of a round table,

playing chess. The room is very dimly lit, and there are two lit

candles on the table. They are still wearing their opera clothes,

but Edward has taken his jacket off.

Slowly, the camera moves forward from an medium full shot of the

table and the two characters on either side of it, to a close shot

on the chess board.

The picture dissolves into :

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

Aerial shot of Edward's office building. Actually there are two

twins towers.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - PHILIP'S ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

High angle shot on Philip's desk. Various documents are spread on

the desk. But set above these documents, there is a miniature

billiard table. And Philip is practicing his billiard with a

miniature billiard cue. He makes a shot and then looks at a

printed document lying next to the miniature table. He then moves

a ball on the billiard table.

A female secretary comes into view on the left of the screen. She

is handing some documents to Philip.

Philip doesn't take the documents and she puts them on the desk.

Philip looks very surprised.

She walks away, leaving a very perplexed Philip.

LOS ANGELES - A PUBLIC PARK - EXTERIOR DAY

A beautiful public park in L.A.

A huge fountain with water works pouring gallons of water into the

pool.

Full shot of Edward and Vivian walking along the fountain, Vivian

walking on a low wall, and Edward walking in the lane. Vivian is

wearing a white dress with thin vertical stripes, and carrying a

little black purse. Edward is wearing a very elegant grey suit,

and he is carrying his leather briefcase.

She jumps down from the low wall and takes Edward's arm.

Later on a lawn in the park.

Medium close shot on a tartan red blanket spread on the lawn.

Vivian is kneeling on the blanket, with Edward seated next to her.

She has already taken one of Edward's shoes and socks off, and she

is taking the other sock off. Edward is talking on his cellphone.

Medium full shot of the lawn. We see that Vivian and Edward are

sitting under a tree. Vivian takes the other sock off.

Vivian stands up, and takes Edward's cellphone away from his ear,

and shuts it.

The picture dissolves into :

LOS ANGELES - A RIDING CLUB - EXTERIOR DAY

A riding club with white fences around the riding lawn.

Full shot of Vivian and Edward riding two horses. Edward is

wearing an open black shirt, and a pair of slacks. Vivian is

wearing riding pants and boots, a white shirt and a beige open

sweater.

Closer shot on Edward's face talking to Vivian while riding.

Medium shot. The two horses are riding next to each other and

Vivian is touching Edward's thigh.

Medium close shot on Vivian. She is smiling and looking very

happy.

Long shot on the riding lawn. Edward and Vivian are walking next

to each other, holding their respective horse by the reins.

Closer shot on Edward and Vivian walking with their horses.

The picture dissolve into :

LOS ANGELES - A SMALL STREET - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot from across the street, looking into a small restaurant.

In the window, neon signs say Good Food and Quick Grill.

Edward and Vivian are seated at the bar.

Closer shot on Edward and Vivian. Vivian is apparently explaining

something to Edward with a lot of hand movements.

The picture dissolves into :

LIMOUSINE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Edward and Vivian are seated next to each other inside the

limousine. Edward is wearing a suit and a tie, and Vivian is

wearing a purple dress.

Vivian is not listening to Edward and she keeps looking through

the car window. She seems nervous.

He raises his voice.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot of the boulevard.

The limousine slows down in front of The Blue Banana. There are

several motorbikes parked in front of the club.

BACK ALLEYWAY - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Medium full shot of a very dark alleyway. Strange-looking people

are walking around.

The limousine enters the alleyway and stops.

Medium shot on two tough-looking guys looking at the limousine.

Medium shot of the limousine. Vivian is already out of it, and

Edward is coming out.

He closes the door of the car.

A quick shot on people exchanging things, maybe drugs.

Back to the limousine.

He leans on the limousine.

Vivian walks away toward the entrance of the night club.

THE BLUE BANANA CLUB - MAIN ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear the song Fame 90, performed by David Bowie.

Medium shot on a metal staircase, with a young man and a young

woman standing at the bottom of the staircase.

Medium shot of a couple dancing in front of the fresco. The whole

club is bathed in red light. The camera starts panning to the

left, showing more people dancing.

Vivian enters the room, looking for Kit.

Customers start looking at Vivian, and at her elegant dress.

Vivian walks toward Rachel, one of the dancing girls.

Vivian walks toward the bar and Pops, the bartender, standing

behind it.

End of music.

BACK ALLEYWAY - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Close shot of a skate board and a pair of roller-shoes, rolling on

the alleyway ground.

Medium full shot on the entrance of the club. Edward is standing

facing the door. A group of tough-looking guys come behind him on

rollers and skate-board. Edward turns around to face them.

We hear the muffled sound of the music, coming from the club.

THE BLUE BANANA CLUB - MAIN ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

We hear the music loud again.

Medium shot of Vivian, still standing near the bar and facing

Pops. She is writing something on a piece of paper.

She walks away from the bar.

BACK ALLEYWAY - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Muffled sound of the music coming from inside the night club.

Mediums shot of Vivian coming out of the club. On the door, a sign

says I.D. Required. Vivian stops when she sees the strange crowd

around Edward, then she starts walking again. She stops when she

gets near Edward. Among the tough-looking guys around Edward, we

recognize Carlos, still wearing his eternal hat, and another guy,

one of Carlos' lieutenants, wearing a leather jacket, and holding

a long stick in his hands.

A girl, standing behind the group, starts giggling very stupidly.

She starts walking away, but Carlos puts himself in her way.

Edward takes a step forward.

The guy, standing next to Carlos, takes a very long knife out of

his skateboard.

He turns toward the guy with the stick.

The stupid girl giggles again. Carlos turns toward her.

Edward turns toward Vivian.

She starts walking away. But Carlos is in their way.

He points his hand toward Darry.

Medium close shot on Darryl, standing near the limousine. He opens

his jacket, revealing a holster with a gun inside.

Back to the group around Vivian and Edward.

He pushes Vivian in front of him and crosses the group. He stops a

couple of seconds near Carlos.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Full shot on the limousine driving away.

The picture dissolves into :

PENTHOUSE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the open door of the bathroom, we see Vivian getting ready

for the night. She is wearing a sleeveless nightdress. She

releases her hair, which were tied in a bun, and walks out of the

bathroom. She stops and looks at the bed.

Reverse close shot on Edward asleep half-sitting in the bed. He is

bare-chested. Vivian walks between him and the camera. She sits

down on the bed.

Reverse close shot on Vivian's face. She is smiling. She gently

kisses her index finger.

Medium shot of Vivian and Edward. Vivian puts her finger on

Edward's lips. She slowly bends down toward his face, and kisses

him on the cheek, hesitates a second, then kisses him on the lips.

He slowly wakes up, and blinks his eyes. He answers to Vivian's

kisses. He raises up from the bed, kissing Vivian passionately.

The camera moves around the bed, while the couple is lying on it,

kissing passionately.

Vivian removes her nightdress, and goes back kissing Edward.

Later.

The camera tilts down from the head of the bed.

Edward is asleep, holding Vivian is his arm. She is still awake

and smiling. She gently strokes his arm.

She closes her eyes.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on Edward seated at the breakfast table.

Edward is fully dressed, but without his jacket. He is eating

breakfast.

Full shot on the breakfast table. Vivian is wearing a black

nightgown with flowers printed on it. She is looking at the

newspaper.

She sits down on a chair.

Quick close shot on Vivian's face, who seems very pensive.

Back to Edward.

Vivian smiles.

Vivian's smiling face saddens a bit.

Vivian takes her head in her hand and bends down on the table. She

exhales.

Vivian stands up and walks to the terrace.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot of Vivian walking out of the penthouse on the

terrace. In the background, we see Edward still seated at the

breakfast table. Vivian bends on the balustrade. Edward stands up,

and walks toward Vivian.

Slight low angle shot taken from outside the terrace, showing

Vivian bending on the balustrade.

Medium close shot on Edward standing by the terrace door.

Back to Vivian bending over the balustrade.

Edward is seriously listening to Vivian.

Back to Vivian bending over the balustrade.

She walks away from the balustrade and toward Edward.

The phone rings inside the penthouse. After a couple of seconds,

Edward walks into the penthouse, and picks up the phone.

Vivian starts walking into the room.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Philip, wearing a dark-colored bathrobe, and

standing near the sink in his bathroom. On the counter next to the

sink, a lot of bottles and jars : perfumes and cosmetics. Philip

is calling from a wireless telephone.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR DAY

Back to the same scene, with Vivian standing near the terrace

door, and looking a bit sad, and, in the background, in the

living-room, Edward on the telephone.

PHILIP'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Philip, the phone receiver stuck between his shoulder and his

head, is drying his hands on a white towel.

He slams his towel on the counter.

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR DAY

Same shot. We hear Philip's laugh on the phone.

He puts the phone down and grabs his jacket from a chair. He puts

his jacket on while walking toward Vivian.

She absently straightened his tie.

He looks at her, then walks away toward the front door. Out of his

hearing, Vivian whispers :

We hear the front door closing.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on the front desk. Miss Wilson, the receptionist, is

standing behind the counter. She doesn't wear her large glasses,

but she looks a bit worried.

The camera slowly pans across the counter, and we discover Barney,

the manager, talking on the phone.

The camera keeps on panning and we discover Kit, chewing gum, and

looking in a bad mood. On the top half of her body, she is only

wearing a bra made into a fabric with a panther-skin motif

Kit extends her hand to take the phone.

Barney gives the phone to Kit.

She gives the phone back to Barney.

An uniformed attendant walks to the counter.

Barney turns toward him and Kit replaces the phone receiver on its

hook.

The attendant walks away.

Barney walks away.

Kit bends down on the counter polished surface and blows on it.

Miss Wilson looks at her with a perplexed eye.

Kit stands up and smiles to Miss Wilson. Further along the

counter, a couple of middle-aged customers stare at her. She turns

her face toward them.

The couple walks away.

Miss Wilson looks at the leaving couple, then looks at Kit with a

suppressed smile.

Kit smiles back at her.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - SWIMMING POOL - EXTERIOR DAY

Long shot on the swimming pool, seen from the terrace above the

pool. A woman in bathing suit is coming up the stairs to the

terrace, drying her daughter with a pink towel.

Reverse medium shot on the stairs. Vivian and Kit are coming down

the stairs. The mother and her daughter are coming up. Vivian is

wearing a very elegant dark pink suit with a white shirt. Kit has

put a grey denim jacket over her panther-decorated bra, but she is

also wearing a very short and tight black skirt. Vivian has put

her arm in the crook of Kit's elbow.

The camera follows Kit and Vivian.

Kit waves the envelope with the money inside.

Now the two girls have reached the bottom of the stair, and they

are walking between the dinner tables surrounding the pool.

Reverse shot. The camera is a couple of yards in front of Vivian

and Kit, and we see the two girls coming toward us.

Vivian lets go of Kit's arm and laughs.

Vivian points to a table.

Vivian points to another table.

Kit sits down. Then Vivian also sits down.

Kit has put her chewing gum into a teaspoon and she puts the spoon

on the table.

Kits looks worried.

Vivian laughs.

Kit presses her hands on her temples.

She sighs and takes her hands out of her temples.

Vivian laughs. Kit starts laughing too.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

The sidewalk in front of Edward's office building.

Medium shot of Edward walking from the curb, carrying his

briefcase. He climbs the stairs that reaches to the upper level of

the sidewalk and the entrance of the building. He slows down when

he hears a father talking to his son

He laughs. Edward stops to look at him.

Reverse shot on the father and his son. The father is wearing a

dark-blue tracksuit with advertisements printed on it. The son,

about ten year-old, is wearing a white shirt and beige slacks. The

father is carrying a cheap briefcase. They are running around a

lamp-post.

He bends down for his son to climb on his back. The son jumps on

his back. The father sighs.

Back on Edward, standing in the middle of the stairway, and

looking at the father with a smile.

Father and son laugh. Edward starts walking again.

Long shot on the large terrace in front of the building. Edward is

crossing it toward the entrance. He slows down to give a last look

the the father and his son.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot on the long conference table. Edward is standing

behind his chair at the end of the table, in front of the bay

window. All the other ones are already seated. On Edward's right

hand side, James Morse and then David Morse. On Edward's left hand

side, Philip. The other seats are occupied by the various male

assistants.

Edward is pacing up and down in front of the bay window.

Edward hardly listens to what Philip says. He seems worried. He

raises a hand.

Philip looks up at him.

Philip seems surprised by what Edward just said. A bit

reluctantly, he says :

All the assistants stand up to leave the room.

Philip, still seated, looks up at Edward. He looks very surprised

and chuckles nervously.

Philip stands up and points toward David Morse.

James Morse makes a discreet sign to his grand-son to enjoin him

to leave the room.

Edward and Philip are standing, facing each other.

Reluctantly, Philip starts moving away.

Philip leaves the room, followed by David.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot on the door of the meeting room. David is

leaving the room, and Philip closes the door behind him.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot. Edward is still standing in front of the bay window. He

manipulates the control of the vertical Venetian blinds, to dim

the daylight in the room.

Close shot of James Morse looking at him questioningly.

Medium shot of Edward standing near the coffee table.

Edward takes the coffee pot to pour the coffee. He sighs loudly.

Edward brings the cup on the table in front of James.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on the meeting room door. Philip and David are

standing on either side of it. But they can't hear what is said

inside the room. Philip gives a quick look at David and walks away

toward the center of the hall.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Full shot of the room. Edward is now seated in his chair facing

James.

Medium shot of James, who chuckles.

He bends down and chuckles. Then he stands up from his chair.

More slowly than Edward, James stands up.

He puts his hand on Edward's shoulder. Edward seems moved by this

gesture.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on Philip, standing behind the meeting room door, and

sulking.

Larger shot, showing all the assistants, seated, and David,

standing on the other side of the door.

Edward opens the door.

He goes back into the meeting room, followed by Philip, David and

all the assistants.

Through the open door, we see James Morse, standing at the back of

the room, near Edward's chair. He motions to the men to sit down.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Philip coming into the room. Edward is smiling.

Edward slaps him on the arm.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - RECEPTION HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Medium close shot on the door of the meeting room. Edward is

coming out. Before he closes the door, we see Philip bending down

on the table to look at the documents.

Larger shot. Edward, with a broad smile on his face, walks away

from the door carrying his briefcase.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on James Morse.

Close shot on Philip. He doesn't look very happy about this

unexpected situation.

EDWARD'S OFFICE IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot on the limousine parked on the curb in front of

the building. Darryl is standing near the car. Edward gives his

briefcase to Darryl.

Darryl sits down on the hood of the car, holding the briefcase in

his arms.

LOS ANGELES - A PUBLIC PARK - EXTERIOR DAY

Close shot on Edward's head and shoulders, walking up and down in

the park.

Medium full shot, showing Edward's full body. He has taken his

shoes and socks off, and he is holding them in his hand. He is

walking up and down barefoot in the grass.

Close Up shot on Edward's bare feet.

PENTHOUSE - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on Vivian's bare feet walking on the rug. The door bell

is chiming. Vivian puts down a large hat box on the floor, and she

walks to the front door. The camera tilts up and we see her full

body. She is wearing the same dark pink suit she was wearing when

she was with Kit by the swimming-pool. She opens the door to

Philip.

Close up shot on Vivian's face : she doesn't seem very happy to

see Philip.

Reverse shot on Philip, a strange sneer on his face.

He walks in without waiting for Vivian to invite him in.

He chuckles. Vivian closes the front door.

He puts his briefcase down on the floor and walks into the room.

He walks to the bar and helps himself for a drink.

He pours whisky in a glass without waiting for Vivian's answer.

He holds the glass toward her.

She walks away from him.

She sits down on the sofa, crosses her legs on the couch and

starts writing in a notebook. Behind him, Philip sits down on a

stool near the bar.

Medium shot on Philip at the bar. He stands up and slowly walks

toward her. The camera follows him.

He sits down on the sofa, next to Vivian. She uncrosses her legs

and lets them down on the floor. He puts his glass on the low

table, crosses his fingers and snickers.

She puts her notebook on the low table.

He moves slightly closer to her. She seems very tense by the

situation.

He moves his hand toward her bare leg. She glares at him.

He puts his hand between her legs. She moves it away.

He keeps on trying to fondle her, and Vivian keeps on trying to

get rid of him.

They start fighting. He stands up.

She bites his hand.

He slaps her face very hard. She falls down on the floor.

He kneels down beside her and grabs her.

Edward, who has come silently into the room, grabs him from

behind, and forces him to stand up.

Quick shot on Vivian slowly getting up from the floor.

Back on Philip and Edward fighting.

Edward pushes him toward the front door, which is still open.

Philip falls down on the floor. He slowly stands back up

Edward very violently punches him in the face. Philip falls down

on the floor.

Quick shot on Vivian, seated on the sofa. She starts when she sees

Edward punching Philip.

Philip slowly stands up, his hand on his face. Edward looks at his

hand, who seems to hurt him after the violent punch he gave to

Philip.

He picks up Philip's briefcase and throws it through the open

door. It falls on the floor of the hallway.

Philip, subdued, walks slowly out.

Quick shot on Vivian, still seated on the sofa, and still very

moved by what just happened.

Back to Edward, slamming the door behind Philip. He looks very

upset.

Later.

Close up on a box full of ice cubes. One of Edward's hands is

taking the cubes out of the box. The other hand, the one which hit

Philip, is wrapped in a white napkin. He puts the cubes in another

white napkin and wraps the napkin around the cubes.

Close up on Vivian's face. She is touching her red cheek.

We see Edward's hand holding the napkin with the ice inside. He

puts it on Vivian's cheek.

Even the light touch of the napkin seems to hurt her.

The camera moves slowly away, widening the shot, and showing

Edward in shirtsleeves bending over Vivian, without her jacket,

and lying on the sofa.

She moves his hand away, and slowly sits up in the sofa.

She stands up from the sofa.

Full shot on the sofa, with Vivian standing up and Edward still

seated.

Edward stands up from the sofa.

Vivian has put her jacket back on and she is putting her shoes on,

seated on the step that goes across the room.

Full shot on the room. Edward has taken his wallet, and he is

taking money out of it. He throws the wallet on a table and sits

down on the steps next to Vivian.

Medium shot on the steps. Edward gives the money to Vivian.

She puts the money in the pocket of her jacket. He is holding a

business card in his hand.

They both chuckle.

She stands up from the steps, and starts collecting her luggage.

Edward, who had remained seated on the steps, stands up.

She is putting the garment bags on her arm.

He bends down to pick up a bag.

She starts moving toward the front door. He walks ahead of her and

starts opening the door, then closes it.

She seems very sad. She opens the door. He holds it for her.

She starts moving out, then stops and smiles to him

Edward closes the door without looking at her.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on the marbled floor. There is a black spot on it.

Barney and an uniformed attendant are kneeling on either side of

the black spot.

Vivian's legs walk in and stop between the two men.

The camera tilts up and we see the faces of all of those three

people. The two men stand up

The attendant doesn't move away and looks at Vivian with a light

smile. Barney looks at him.

The attendant walks away.

He points to Darryl, whom we don't see, and calls him.

Darryl walks near Vivian.

Darry walks away. Vivian holds her hand out to Barney. Barney

bends down and lightly kisses the extended hand. Then he shakes

it.

She slaps him on the arm and walks away. Barney turns around and

looks at her walking away.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot on the limousine driving away from the curb in front of

the hotel.

We hear the song It Must Have Been Love, performed by Roxette.

LIMOUSINE - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Vivian seated in the back of the limousine, looking

very pensive.

Vivian turns around to have a last look at the hotel.

Vivian turns back and look absently in front of her, with the same

pensive, slightly sad, look on her face.

BERVERLY HILLS - EXTERIOR DAY

Full shot on the limousine driving along the street.

The scene dissolves into :

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR EVENING

Medium shot taken from outside the terrace, of Edward standing

near the balustrade. His vest is open and he has taken his tie

off. He tries to look over the balustrade, but can't.

He walks away from the balustrade, and back into the penthouse.

The camera lets Edward go inside the penthouse and pans to the

right along the wall and the foliage decorating the terrace.

The picture dissolves into the foliage on the other side of the

French window and :

PENTHOUSE - TERRACE - EXTERIOR DAY

Next day.

The camera pans to the left from the foliage to a medium shot on

the window.

Edward comes out on the terrace. He is fully dressed in an elegant

grey suit. The camera follows Edward. We hear some thunder

rumbling in the distance. Edward moves to the balustrade. He is

holding a jewel case in his hand. It is the one with Vivian's

necklace inside.

A bell boy is coming out on the terrace. He has some luggage in

his hands.

The bell boy walks away from the terrace, carrying luggage.

More thunder and end of the music.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close shot on kit, seen through the window. It's raining. She is

holding a picture of her and Vivian. She chuckles.

Medium shot inside the room. Kit is seated near the window,

holding a Teddy Bear on her laps. She stands up.

She walks toward Vivian, who is wearing slacks, a white T-shirt

and a dark jacket. Her hair is tied into a bun.

The camera moves back into a full shot of the room.

Vivian is putting things away in a bag.

She sits down.

She turns around to face Kit.

Kit looks around her.

She laughs.

Kit stands up, puts the Teddy Bear down, and walks toward her.

Vivian takes some money out of her pocket. She puts the money in

the breast pocket of Kit's denim jacket.

Vivian is crying.

She puts a cap on Kit's head.

She takes it off and gives it back to Vivian. She walks away.

She hugs Vivian.

Vivian slaps Kit's back, and then kisses her on the head.

REGENT BEVERLY WILSHIRE HOTEL - LOBBY - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot from behind the front desk. Barney is behind the

counter, working on some paperwork. Miss Wilson is standing

besides him, with her large glasses back on her nose. Edward walks

to the desk. Barney smiles to him.

Edward starts signing some documents on the counter.

Darryl walks to the desk.

Darryl walks away. Edward pushes the signed documents across the

counter to Barney.

Edward gives the jewel box to Barney.

Edward chuckles.

Barney opens the jewel box.

Close up on the necklace in the box. It is the one Vivian was

wearing at the Opera.

Close shot on Edward looking at the necklace with a sad face.

Then medium close shot on Barney, with a half-smile on his face.

Close up shot on the jewel box being closed by Barney.

Back to Barney.

Edward doesn't answer, but his face indicates he has taken the

information in.

Back to Barney.

Edward walks away, followed by the bell boy carrying his luggage.

Barney looks at him with a puzzled eye.

LIMOUSINE - INTERIOR DAY

Medium shot of Edward seated in the back of the limousine. He has

an absent look on his face. It is raining outside.

Edward gives Darryl a quick look, then look absently through the

window. He must think about something that makes him smile a

little.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian is also looking absently through the window of her hotel

room.

HOLLYWOOD BOULEVARD - EXTERIOR DAY

Medium shot on a fast food stand on the street. Kit is standing in

front of the stand, talking to Angel, another prostitute whom we

have already briefly seen early in the film in the Blue Banana

Club. She is drinking Coca-Cola from a paper tumbler.

Full shot showing the whole sidewalk with the food stand in the

middle. On the right of the food stand, a very small temporary

flower stand in front of a closed shop. While Kit keeps on talking

to her prospective roommate, Edward walks behind them.

Closer shot on the flower stand and the florist, a middle-aged

woman. Edward has just reached the stand.

Edward is looking at the flowers.

Edward points to a bunch of flowers. The florist gives it to him.

He gives her money, takes the flowers and puts his wallet back

into his jacket inside pocket. He walks away.

Back to Kit and Angel at the food stand.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Medium full shot. Vivian is putting her handbag on her shoulder,

getting ready to move out of the room. She has already reached the

front door, when she hears a car honking repeatedly. She stops and

slowly turns around.

We hear music from La Traviata, a soprano solo.

Vivian drops the bag and walks toward the window. The music gets

louder and Vivian has a broad smile. She walks to the window.

SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR DAY

High angle shot of the street, as seen from Vivian's hotel window.

The limousine is slowly driving toward the hotel. The roof of the

limousine is open, and the upper half of Edward's body is showing

through the open roof. He has the flowers in one hand and a black

umbrella in the other hand. The car is honking and moves closer to

the curb.

The car stops in front of the hotel. Edward raises one arm, the

one with the umbrella.

Close shot on the window. Vivian is laughing, but also ready to

cry.

High angle view of the roof of the car. Edward is waving both his

umbrella and his flowers. Darryl is coming out of the driver's

door.

Back to Vivian, waving to him.

VIVIAN AND KIT'S APARTMENT - LIVING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Vivian leaves the window.

Vivian walks to another window, the one leading to the emergency

exit.

SIDE STREET IN HOLLYWOOD - EXTERIOR DAY

High angle shot of the limousine. Edward comes out of the car

through the roof and jumps on the sidewalk. Darryl, standing near

the car, watches the scene and smiles.

Medium close shot on the balcony of the emergency exit. Vivian has

come out of the room, and is smiling and looking down at Edward.

Medium close shot of Edward, standing on the sidewalk and looking

up at Vivian.

High angle shot of the emergency exit, seen from Vivian's balcony.

We see Edward through the metal steps leading to Vivian's level.

Back on the sidewalk level of the emergency exit. Edward grabs the

emergency ladder with the hook of his umbrella, and brings it

down.

Back on Vivian's balcony. She unties her hair, an lets it wave

down.

Medium shot on the emergency exit. Edward is slowly climbing the

steps, with the flowers between his teeth.

Back to Vivian, looking down and smiling broadly.

Back to Edward on a landing of the emergency exit. He crawls on

it, with his back pressed against the wall.

Close shot on Edward's face, with the flowers between his teeth.

He stops moving and looks down.

High angle shot on the limousine, and Darryl, smiling

encouragingly to Edward.

Back to Edward's close shot. He resumes his crawling walk with his

back pressed against the wall.

Larger shot on the emergency exit landing. Edward reaches the

ladder leading to Vivian's landing, whose shadow we see moving

above Edward.

Low angle shot on Vivian's balcony. She walks on it to meet

Edward.

High angle shot, seen from Vivian's eyes, and showing Edward

walking up the last steps, holding the bannister very firmly.

Low angle shot on Vivian, standing on the top of the steps,

laughing and looking down at Edward.

Back to Edward, who lets go of the bannister, and opens his arms

to Vivian.

Close shot on Vivian walking down the steps. She reaches Edward,

who climbs another step to be at her level. Their faces are now

close to one another.

Slowly, their mouth meet, and they kiss passionately.

Full shot of Vivian's hotel and the emergency exit. On the steps

between the top landing and the one below, we see Edward and

Vivian kissing passionately.

End of La Traviata music.

We hear the voice of the Afro-American man we saw at the beginning

of the film, crossing Hollywood Boulevard.

The camera moves away from the hotel and we see the Afro-American

man coming down the street

He crosses the street.

The picture moves away to the right of the screen, to be replaced

by a full black screen.

The credits start rolling up while we hear the song Pretty

Woman, performed by Roy Orbison.

End of music.

A short silence, and then we hear the song No Explanation,

performed by Peter Cetera.

The music slowly fades out

End of credits.

