A WALL

With horizontal hatch lines.

A disheveled young man in a gaily colored Hawaiian shirt is

launched into frame by someone offscreen.

He holds a printed paddle that reads "NO. 1468-6 NOV. 29

79."

The hatch marks on the wall behind him are apparently height

markers.

FLASH

As his picture is taken.

CLOSEUP

On the paddle: "NOV. 29 79."

A bellowing male voice from offscreen:

ANGLE ON THE STILL CAMERA

It is mounted on a tripod. A pretty young woman in a severe

police uniform peers out from behind it.

HI obliges, but still looks at Ed out of the corner of his

eye.

FLASH

On his eye-skewed profile.

LOW ANGLE CELL BLOCK CORRIDOR

As Hi is escorted away from the camera toward his cell.

At the far end of the corridor a huge con is sluggishly

mopping the floor.

INTERCUTTING

HI'S POV of the MOPPING CON, tracking as he approaches, and

the Mopping Con's POV of Hi as Hi approaches.

The Mopping Con snarls as Hi passes:

NEWSREEL FOOTAGE

A ballplayer connects - THWOCK - for a home run and the crowd

roars.

PRISON HALL

Panning a circle of men who sit facing each other in folding

chairs. The pan starts on Hi.

At this point the pan has reached the COUNSELOR, an earnest,

bearded young man who straddles a folding chair with his

arms folded over its back.

He is addressing one of the Cons:

CLOSEUP BLACK CON

The huge muscle-bound black man with a shaved head is knitting

his brow in consternation.

He bites his lip, thinking; then, in a resonant bass voice:

PAROLE MEETING ROOM

Three PAROLE OFFICERS - two men and a woman - face Hi across

a table.

EXT. 7-ELEVEN NIGHT

A beat-up Chevy pulls into the all-night store's empty parking

lot.

Hi is getting out of the Chevy in a Hawaiian shirt, holding

a pump-action shotgun.

He primes the shotgun - WHOOSH - CLACK - and heads for the

store.

FLASH

Full-face exposure of Hi once again in front of the mug-shot

wall.

Hi obliges but shoots sympathetic glances at Ed who is

obviously upset, wiping away tears and snuffling behind the

camera.

FLASH

On Hi's profile. He turns back to Ed.

As another police officer starts to lead him away:

CLOSE ON ED

Looking up through her tears as Hi is led away.

BACK TO HI

Struggling to call back over his shoulder as he is firmly

led out the door.

The door slams.

LOW ANGLE CELL BLOCK CORRIDOR

As Hi is once again escorted toward his cell.

The Mopping Con is now in the middle-background, having worked

his way about halfway up the corridor since last time we saw

him.

CLOSE ON MOPPING CON

As Hi passes.

PRISON HALL

Group is meeting again.

Hi looks sheepish.

Two convicts sitting next to each other, GALE and EVELLE,

appear to be friends.

HIGH ANGLE CELL

Looking down from the ceiling. In the foreground, lying on

the top bunk, hands clasped behind his head as he stares off

into space is MOSES. Moses is a gnarled, elderly black con

with wire-rimmed spectacles. On the lower bunk, also with

hands clasped behind his head and staring off at the same

spot in space, is Hi.

PAROLE BOARD ROOM

Hi faces the same three PAROLE OFFICERS across the same table.

HIGH SHOT

Of a 7-Eleven parking lot, at night, deserted except for

Hi's car which sits untended, its engine rumbling.

Hi backpedals into frame with a shotgun and a bag of cash.

He spins and grabs his car-door handle. Locked. He tries the

back door. Locked.

As we hear the wail of an approaching siren, Hi takes it on

the heel and toe.

FLASH

On Hi against the mug-shot wall.

CLOSE ON HI'S HAND

We see his right hand being efficiently manipulated by Ed's

two hands: She is rolling each of his inked fingers into the

appropriate space on an exemplar sheet.

Ed's hand lingers on top of his.  Hi's other hand enters to

rest on top of hers.

Hi slips a ring off his own finger and slides it onto Ed's.

LOW ANGLE CELL BLOCK CORRIDOR

The surly Mopping Con has now worked his way up to the

foreground.

Hi is being escorted past him to his cell.

Halfway up the corridor Hi points casually at the floor.

The Mopping Con turns to watch him recede.

HIGH ANGLE CELL

Same high shot with Moses on the top bunk, Hi on the lower.

We begin to crane down to tighten on the absently staring

Hi.

Moses' voice is mixing down as we lose him from frame.

We are now very close on Hi, staring.

HI'S POV

The underside of the top bunk.

A sudden flash whitens and fades to leave the image of Ed,

smiling behind her camera, softly supered on the underside

of the bunk.

BACK TO HI

He wearily turns his head to profile on the pillow and shuts

his eyes.

Eyes closed, he is illuminated by a flash.

PAROLE BOARD ROOM

Hi and the same three officers.

TRACKING

Over Hi's shoulder as he strides toward a door marked

"Processing" and flings it open.

It is the familiar booking room. Ed looks up from her camera,

having just snapped a picture of another suspect against the

hatched wall.

Hi cocks a finger at the suspect.

ED'S ROOM

As she nervously frets at her white bridal gown in front of

a mirror.

CLOSE SHOT ED

Gazing earnestly into the camera. A congregation is seated

behind her - the bride's side wearing police blues; the

groom's side, Hawaiian shirts.

CLOSE SHOT HI

Also staring into the camera.

REVERSE

Over their shoulders, the minister.

FLASH

On the newlyweds smiling at the camera.

FLASH

On the newlyweds smiling at each other, profile to the camera.

HIGH WIDE SHOT TRAILER PARK

In the middle of a vast expanse of desert.

INT. MACHINE SHOP

Hi is working the drill press, wearing goggles and sweat-

stained overalls.

Next to him idly stands Bud, a veteran of the shop, with a

grimy face and a pair of goggles pushed up on his forehead.

He pauses to blow and pop a bubble with his chewing gum.

CASHIER'S WINDOW

Hi is scowling at his paycheck. Behind the barred window a

fat cashier grins.

EXT. TRAILER

Hi sits in a lawn chair in front of the trailer. Ed sits on

his lap, his arms around her. Both are wearing sunglasses,

looking at the setting sun. The scene is suffused with a

warm yellow light.

As the sun sets, the light is turning from yellow to amber.

Hi and Ed watch, their heads following its slow downward

arc.

The amber is turning to a more neutral dusky light as the

sun has set. Hi and Ed continue to stare at the point where

it disappeared.

The dusk is slipping away into darkness.

We are by now holding on pitch black. Crickets chirp. From

the darkness:

A CALENDAR

Ed is crossing off the last day on the calendar before a day

circled in red.

INT. TRAILER

Hi is wearily entering after a long day at work, clutching

his lunchpail.

Ed flies into frame and leaps into his arms, covering him

with kisses.

TRAILER BEDROOM

In each other's arms, Hi and Ed roll over on the bed.

We pan with them rolling and continue off them to the night

table, on which sits a framed pair of photographs of Hi,

probably taken by Ed: One shows him full face, the other in

profile.

EXT. TRAILER TWILIGHT

Ed sits in a lawn chair knitting a booty. Hi stands in Bermuda

shorts and an unbuttoned Hawaiian shirt, hosing down the

minuscule patch of front lawn.

DUSTY ROAD LEADING UP TO TRAILER DAY

A squad car, its siren wailing, kicks up dust as it roars

into the foreground.

ADOPTION OFFICE

Hi and Ed are seated on folding chairs facing an agent's

desk. Hi wears a sport coat over his Hawaiian shirt. Ed is

in her dress blues.

THE AGENT

Looking, with a dead pan, from the file to Hi.

His face still deadly neutral, the agent looks back down at

the file and unfolds the accordioned rap sheet, revealing it

to be a couple feet long.

INT. SQUAD CAR

On Ed as she stares vacantly out the passenger window.

ON HI

Driving. He looks from Ed out to the road.

TRAILER BATHROOM

Over Hi's shoulder as he stares listlessly at himself in the

mirror, a razor held forgotten in one hand, his face half

lathered and half shaved.

TRAILER BEDROOM

The bedroom is somewhat messy. Ed sits on the edge of the

bed, also staring listlessly. Her police uniform is on but

not yet buttoned. Her hands lie palm-up in her lap, like two

dead fish.

MACHINE SHOP

Once again Hi works as his sweaty gum-chewing colleague stands

idly by.

ON HI DRIVING

Alone in his Chevy. He looks to the side.

HIS MOVING POV

7-Eleven.

TRAILER LIVING ROOM

Hi and Ed sit listlessly watching TV.

Ed perks up, reacting to something on TV. Hi notices her

reaction and also sloughs off his stupor to watch.

THE TV

A newscaster silently reading copy. Behind him news footage

of five nurses holding infants mortices in.

BACK TO HI AND ED

Watching intently. Eyes still locked on the set, Ed reaches

her hand out to Hi. Eyes still locked on the set, Hi takes

her hand in his.

THE TV A LATE-NIGHT LOCAL COMMERCIAL

NATHAN ARIZONA, a stocky middle-aged man in a white polyester

suit, is gesturing expansively with his white cowboy hat

toward a one-story warehouse store with a football stadium

parking lot, chroma-keyed in behind him.

BACK TO HI AND ED

As they slowly look from the TV set toward each other.

LINE OF NEWSPAPER VENDING MACHINES

Hi lounges near one of the vending machines as a businessman

puts in a quarter.

The businessman takes his newspaper and releases the machine

door as he turns to leave.

Hi snags the door before it closes and takes his own five-

finger discount copy.

He flips the paper over to look at the headline.

FRONT PAGE OF NEWSPAPER

The banner headline of the Tempe Intelligencer is:

"ARIZONA QUINTS GO HOME!"

The subhead: "More Than We Can Handle,' Laughs Dad." Next to

it is a picture of Nathan.

A pull back from the paper shows Hi and Ed reading it together

at home. They look from the paper to each other.

Hi opens to an inside page and we pan a row of pictures -

the five tots with their names underneath: "HARRY, BARRY,

LARRY, GARRY and NATHAN JR."

BILLBOARD

In the middle of the desert. It reads: "WELCOME TO TEMPE!

POPULATION 13,948... PLUS FIVE!"

EXT. TRAILER TWILIGHT

We are floating in toward Ed who is seated, waiting, in the

driver's seat of Hi's Chevy. Hi enters frame and cinches

down a ladder that is tied to the roof of the car. Pieces of

red flag flutter at either end of the ladder where it sticks

out beyond the car.

Hi gets in the car.

FROM BEHIND THE CHEVY

It starts down the long, winding road leading away from the

trailer, kicking up dust.

The title of the film burns in: "RAISING ARIZONA". A building

chord snaps off in a shock cut to:

SUBURBAN LIVING ROOM EVENING

Tableau of a couple at home. Nathan Arizona is on the

telephone, his stocking feet up on an ottoman. Florence sits

reading Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care.

The living room is dominated by a large oil portrait of Nathan

and Florence, gazing out from the wall over the mantelpiece.

TITLE IS SUPERED:

"THE ARIZONA HOUSEHOLD"

From somewhere upstairs we hear an infant start to cry.

Florence stops reading and looks up at the ceiling. Nathan

is oblivious.

Another title is supered below the first: "SEPTEMBER 17,

1985". The baby stops crying and Florence's attention returns

to her book.

As he throws out his wrist to look at his watch a third title

is supered beneath the first two: 8:45 p.m.

He starts to replace the receiver but brings it back with an

afterthought:

As he slams the phone into the cradle the titles disappear.

Another baby starts crying. Florence looks up at the ceiling.

Close on the crying baby as Hi bounces it, gently but

desperately.

He starts to lower it back into the crib. The crib is

unpainted with the name of each baby burned Bonanza-style

into the headboard: Harry, Barry, Larry, Garry, and Nathan

Jr. Instead of quieting as he is lowered into the crib, the

squalling baby only sets off one of his brothers. Hi hurriedly

lifts him back out.

He looks desperately around the room.

The room is wallpapered with nursery rhyme characters.

There are toys strewn around. There is one adult-sized easy

chair in the corner.

Hi carries the baby over to the chair, stepping on and

reacting to the squeal of a squeeze-me toy on the way. He

sits the baby deep in - the chair and then returns to the

crib to deal with the second crying baby.

He lifts the baby out of the crib and gently bounces it.

This baby stops crying.

Another one in the crib starts bawling.

Hi sets the second baby down on the floor and gives it a

rattle to keep it pacified. He reaches for the third baby in

the crib. Sweat stands out on Hi 's brow. He is desperately

chucking the third baby under the chin when we hear a muffled

PTHUMP!

He whirls to look across the darkened room.

The first baby has dropped off the easy chair and is

energetically crawling away toward a shadowy corner.

LIVING ROOM

Nathan and Florence are sitting stock-still, staring at the

ceiling. After a moment, another baby starts crying.

They stare at the ceiling.

NURSERY

Loose babies are crawling everywhere. Hi is skittering across

the room in a half-crouch, a baby tucked under one arm,

reaching out with the other as he pursues a crawling baby

across the room.

He hefts the other baby with his free arm and brings the air

back to the crib.

He turns to look frantically around the room.

The other three babies have disappeared.

There is perfect quiet.

Hi goes over to the closet door, which is ajar, and swings

it open.

He reaches under a moving pile of clothes on the floor and

pulls out a baby.

He returns it to the crib and freezes, listening.

The sound of a rattle.

He drops to the floor to look under the crib.

WIDE ANGLE UNDER CRIB

A baby holding a rattle leers into the camera in the

foreground. Behind him Hi, on his stomach, is reaching in to

grab at his leg.

Hi is pulling the baby out, away from the camera, when with

a plop! a baby drops onto Hi 's back from the crib above.

Hi twists one arm back to grope for the baby crawling on top

of him.

He is straightening up, a baby in each arm, when he reacts

in horror to something he sees across the room.

HI'S POV

The hindquarters of a diapered baby are just disappearing

around the corner of the nursery door into the hallway.

LIVING ROOM

Florence and Nathan are staring at the ceiling. After a beat

we hear a muffled plop! on the ceiling. A beat later, the

bleat of the squeeze-me toy.

They sound restless.

UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

The floor-level wide-angle shot shows a baby crawling toward

the camera in the foreground. Behind him, in the background,

just rounding the open door from the nursery, yet another

baby is making a mad dash for freedom.

Hi emerges from the nursery and, stepping around the

background baby, trots toward the baby in the foreground. By

the time he reaches it the low-angle cropping shows us only

his feet and calves.

CLOSE ON HI

Perspiring as he tiptoes the last two steps to the baby.

HI'S POV

The baby and, beyond it, the stairway down to the main floor.

We hear footsteps approaching.

BACK TO HI

He scoops up the baby and hurriedly tiptoes away toward the

nursery.

LOW-ANGLE REVERSE

The baby at the nursery door in the foreground; the staircase

in the background. As Hi reaches the baby we hear footsteps

climbing the stairs.

Hi's free arm comes down into frame to scoop the baby up and

out of frame just as:

Florence's head appears, bobbing up as she climbs the stairs.

She approaches the nursery, still clutching the Dr. Spock

book.

NURSERY

As Florence enters from the hallway door.

We track back into the room, on her, as she approaches the

crib. Halfway there she freezes, staring, in shock.

HER POV

All of the babies have been replaced in the crib but not

lying down: They are seated in a row, staring back at her,

lined up against the far crib railing, like a small but

distinguished panel on "Meet the Press."

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE CHEVY

ED'S POV of Hi approaching the car. He is shrugging and

displaying a pair of manifestly empty hands.

CLOSE ON ED

Barely able to fight down her anger. Hissing:

Hi appears at her - the driver's-window.

He is reaching to open the door but she slaps his hand away

from the handle.

He is trying to open the door, which Ed is holding shut with

all her might.

Ed is rolling up the window and locking the door.

Muffled, through the closed window, and very forlorn:

NURSERY

Florence is holding one of the babies cradled against her

shoulder. She is facing the hallway door; her back is to the

crib and window. The baby, peeping out over her shoulder, is

facing the window.

CLOSE ON BABY

Looking.

BABY'S POV

Of the window, as Hi's head appears in it.

BABY

Looking.

HI

Looking back, he holds a finger to his lips.

BABY

Florence starts bouncing it, patting it on the back.

BABY'S POV

Hi and the window bouncing up and down.

LIVING ROOM

Nathan is leafing through the lingerie ads in the newspaper.

We can hear Florence's returning footsteps. Muttering:

Florence enters.

We hear the bleat of the squeeze-me toy. Florence and Nathan

look at the ceiling for a beat, then Nathan clears his throat

and returns to the newspaper.

CHEVY

Ed sits anxiously waiting in the driver's seat, peering

intently through the windshield. As she catches sight of

something she breaks into a broad smile, unlocks the door,

and slides over to the passenger seat.

Hi is opening the door with one hand, cradling a baby in the

other.

As he gets into the driver's seat:

He hands her the infant, then hands her the copy of Dr.Spock's

Baby and Child Care.

Hi nods as he pulls away from the curb.

Ed is gushing and kissing the baby through the rest of the

conversation.

Ed suddenly bursts out crying.

TRAILER LIVING ROOM

As the lights are thrown on. The room is hung with streamers.

A string of cut-out letters reads "Welcome Home Son!"

REVERSE

Ed is entering with Nathan Jr.

He reaches for the child.

He takes the baby in both hands and holds him out at arm's

length, pointing him at the various places of interest. The

baby looks goggle-eyed at each one.

Impatient with the nonsense:

He is propping Nathan Jr. up in the corner of the couch. Hi

sits at the other corner and Ed sits in a facing chair.

Hi beams at Nathan Jr. Ed smiles at Nathan Jr. Nathan Jr.

looks from one to the other, deadpan. They seem to be waiting

for him to contribute to the conversation.

Silence.

Suddenly Hi slaps his knee.

Ed is getting up.

As she picks up the baby:

He is frantically reaching for a Polaroid camera.

She sits down on the couch with Nathan Jr. as Hi starts

screwing the camera into a tripod.

Absently, as he sets up the camera:

As he peers through the lens:

As she complies:

Hi sits on the couch, holding the camera's cable release. He

puts his arm around Ed and smiles at the offscreen camera.

Ed nestles her head against Hi's shoulder.

Through his teeth as he continues to grin at the offscreen

camera:

We begin to hear distant thunder.

As he squeezes the cable release - FLASH - the image

momentarily freezes on Hi beaming, Nathan Jr. staring, and

Ed looking at Hi with a little bit of concern.

DARK FIELD SAME NIGHT

The rolling thunder has built to a thunderclap at the cut,

and the flash of the Polaroid match cuts to lightning throwing

a momentarily harsh glare on the field.

Rain beats down on the bare patch of ground we are looking

at - by now just a patch of mud.

Faraway lightning flickers and we hear the rumble of more

thunder approaching, then suddenly:

THWACK - A head pops up out of the mud. It is Gale, the con

we saw in group therapy. He bellows as lightning and thunder

flash and crack nearby.

His head is covered with mud, although the driving rain is

already starting to wash it away.

We are beginning to track in an arc around Gale's head, who

is now struggling, working to get his shoulders and arms up

out of the mud. The end of the 180-degree arc and a flash of

lightning reveal, way in the distance, the wire-topped walls

of a penitentiary.

Still bellowing, as if in some primal rage, Gale has gotten

his muck-covered arms up out of the earth and is now pushing

down to haul up the rest of his body. It comes with much

effort, and with the loud sucking-popping sounds of the

fiercely clinging mud.

Finally he is free.

With a great cry, the mud-covered man plunges his right arm

straight back down into the earth, all the way up to his

shoulder. He gropes intently and then, apparently having

grabbed hold of something underground, he starts pulling.

His arm comes slowly back up out of the mud. Clasped in his

hand is - a human foot.

Bellowing with effort he continues to pull, liberating the

foot... leg... torso of his companion, and finally his head.

As the rain starts to wash the mud off his companion's head

we see that it is his friend Evelle.

Both are bellowing.

Mud sucks and pops.

Thunder crashes.

INT. GAS STATION MENS ROOM

At the cut the ear-splitting thunder drops out to quiet. We

hear only the muffled patter of rain and the hum of a bare

fluorescent.

The two bedraggled escaped cons are standing side by side,

combing their hair in the mirror. The men seem absorbed in

their task, using hair jelly from a jar that sits on the

shelf between them to restore their duck's-ass haircuts.

Evelle cracks the bathroom door and looks out into the rain.

EXT. GAS STATION

The two men are trotting out to a Mercury that sits untended

at a gas island, a gas hose on automatic stuck in its tank.

As Gale starts up the car Evelle yanks the hose out and drops

it to the ground. Gale is already starting to peel out as

Evelle gets in.

WIDE SHOT TRAILER LIVING ROOM

Late at night. Hi sits asleep on the sofa at the far end of

the room, in a pool of lamp light.

We hear faint, distant knocking. As we track in toward Hi

the knocking becomes louder and more present.

As we approach Hi we see that several Polaroids are spread

over his gently rising and falling chest.

By the time we tighten on his face the knocking has become

quite loud.

Hi starts awake with a grunt.

He looks up, alarmed.

HI'S POV

The front door of the trailer. Someone is pounding

insistently.

BACK TO HI

He sits up and tenses. He looks around.

Ed stands in her nightgown at the mouth of the hallway,

holding Nathan Jr. and squinting at Hi. She hisses:

Hi gets to his feet, hurriedly tosses the Polaroids under a

cushion of the couch and takes out a gun.

As Ed turns back to the bedroom:

BEDROOM

As Ed enters and shuts the door. She listens hard at the

door:

Hi's footsteps cross the living room, the click of the door

opening, silence... a burst of raucous male laughter.

LIVING ROOM

As Ed enters, carrying Nathan Jr. All three men - Hi, Gale,

and Evelle - are beaming at her.

Gale roars with laughter.

Ed smiles politely, then squints at Hi.

Gale is admiring the baby.

Hi and Ed look at each other uncomfortably. Hi clears his

throat.

Gale is staring at the streamers and decorations. Reading

aloud:

Hi and Ed respond simultaneously:

As the two men move toward the couch Ed hesitantly pipes up:

She wrinkles her nose.

Apologetically:

He is looking at the baby.

Gale, Evelle, and Hi look up at Ed, dumbstruck. After a beat:

She looks at Hi.

Gale leans in close to Hi, a look of sincere concern on his

face, and says under his breath:

There is an awkward silence as she leaves and slams the

bedroom door.

Gale is carefully studying his thumbnail; Evelle stares

fixedly at the ceiling. Still looking at his thumb:

BEDROOM

Sometime later, as Hi tiptoes in. Ed lies in bed facing the

wall; we see only the back of her head. Hi sits gingerly on

the edge of the bed and, smiling, sticks a finger through

the bars of the crib to play with the baby.

The sound of the TV set in the living room filters faintly

in.

Hi is momentarily startled, then goes on playing with the

baby.

Ed finally turns to face him. We hear the two men laugh

raucously in the living room.

Hi turns to face her.

EXTREME HIGH ANGLE

Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in bed. It is later:

filtering softly in from the other room is the end of the

"Star Spangled Banner" on TV. We are craning down.

FLASH CUT

For a brief moment we see a wall of flames and hear it roar.

BACK TO HI

Still craning down.

FLASH CUT

Wall of flames. Deafening roar.

BACK TO HI

Craning down. The faint National Anthem ends: we hear the

WEEEEEEEE of a test pattern.

WALL OF FLAMES

Roaring. At the cut: WHOOOOOSH! a huge low-rider motorcycle

bursts through the flames, its engine roaring even louder

than the fire. Its driver is a huge leather-clad hellion.

The chains worn by the Biker clank ominously as he rides.

The Biker roars out of frame.

LOW-ANGLE REVERSE

As the Biker roars into frame, his rear tire laying down a

wake of fire.

TRACKING ON BIKER

As he roars along a ribbon of desert highway.

The Biker reaches for his bullwhip.

The Biker cracks the whip and, at the crack:

The sky behind him turns instantly to black. Bolts of

lightning crackle across it as thunder roars.

ANOTHER DESERT SCENE DAY

Tracking with and also in on the Biker from behind as he

roars along a strip of highway. He is reaching for the two

sawed-off shotguns which are strapped crisscross across his

back.

REVERSE TRACK ON BIKER

Pulling the Biker from a distance as he levels the two

shotguns. The tracking camera pulls back further to reveal a

running jack-rabbit keeping pace with us in the foreground.

CRACK - as the first shotgun spurts orange the foreground

rabbit keels over. The Biker slues the other gun around.

LOCKED-DOWN WIDE SHOT

On a rock in the foreground, a desert lizard suns himself.

The Biker is approaching in the distant background.

CRACK - from afar, the foreground lizard is blown away.

LOCKED-DOWN LOW-ANGLE WIDE SHOT

Of the empty desert road stretching away. In the foreground

a lone desert flower blooms.

The Biker roars into frame.

As the Biker roars away, the foreground flower bends with

his draft and then bursts into flame.

TRACKING ON BIKER

From in front. He twirls the shotguns in either hand and

reaches back to plunge them over his shoulders into their

holsters.

We are moving in on his chest, where two crisscrossed

bandoliers carry two rows of hand grenades, their silver

pins glinting in the sun. We follow the line of one of the

bandoliers up to his right shoulder which bears the tattoo:

"Mama Didn't Love Me."

REVERSE TRACK ON BIKER

From behind, booming down as we track. We are approaching

the crest of a rise.

HIGH SHOT

Of the Biker approaching, craning down as he draws near.

With the crane down we momentarily lose him from view over

the rise; then suddenly - ROAR - he tops the rise and, wheels

spinning, is airborne

REVERSE

As he crashes back down to earth in the foreground and roars

away. Only now we are no longer in the desert:

We are looking down a twilight street at the end of which is

the Arizona house.

The roar of his engine and clank of his chains recede as the

Biker gradually dissolves into thin air.

We are left looking at the empty street and the faraway

Arizona house.

The receding roar has left behind eerily beautiful singing,

a woman singing a lullaby. Faintly, behind the singing, there

is also a droning high-pitched noise.

The camera starts floating forward very close to the ground,

moving slowly toward the Arizona house. The high-pitched

drone is becoming less faint under the singing.

The camera is accelerating. The drone is growing louder - we

can now tell that it is a human scream.

As we approach the Arizona house we can see that a ladder is

propped up to a second-story window.

We are moving quite fast now. The scream all but buries the

singing.

We are rushing toward the house, toward the base of the

ladder, the sustained scream drawing us on.

We hurtle toward and then straight up the ladder with no

abatement of speed, sucked forward by the deafening scream.

We reach the top and hurtle - THWAP! - through the white

curtains of the open second-story window into the nursery to

reveal Florence Arizona, her back to us, screaming over the

crib.

We are rocketing toward her.

She is turning to us, hands pressed to her ears, mouth

stretched wide in an ear-splitting shriek and we are rushing

into an extreme close-up of her gaping mouth and her wildly

vibrating epiglottis and we

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT OF HI'S EYES

As they snap open.

The screaming snaps off at the cut. The singing that the

building scream covered, however, is now audible again.

Perspiration beads Hi's forehead. He looks down toward the

foot of the bed.

THE BEDROOM

It is now morning. Ed walks back and forth, gently bouncing

the baby as she walks. She is singing it a lullaby.

Faintly, from the next room, we can hear Gale and Evelle

snoring away like buzz saws.

Hi is getting out of bed.

He crosses to the bedroom window and cracks the venetian

blind. Orange light filters in.

HIS POV

Beyond a clothes line and a septic tank, a huge orange ball

of sun is rising. We can almost hear the roar of its burning

surface.

BACK TO HI

Looking.

HIS POV

The orange sun, rumbling, perceptibly rising.

ARIZONA HOME FRONT FOYER

At the cut the rumble of the sun is snapped off by the high-

pitched ba-WEEEEeeee... of a strobe going off as a flash

picture is taken: We are looking over Nathan Jr.'s shoulder

as he stands at his open front door, facing a battery of

press people who stand out on the porch.

An obie light over a local TV news camera glares in at us;

various flashbulbs pop.

A POLICEMAN from inside the house is taking Nathan by the

elbow.

As Nathan allows himself to be led back into the house he

calls back over his shoulder:

We are following the two, hand-held, as the Police leads

Nathan toward the living room.

LIVING ROOM

The room is filled with policemen milling about in several

different uniforms: local police, state troopers, plainclothes

detectives.

The original Policeman is leading Nathan to a table where a

white-smocked technician is preparing inkpad and exemplar

sheets.

The dialogue is urgent, rapid-fire and overlapping.

MR. BYRUM has taken Nathan's right hand and is rolling its

fingers onto the inkpad.

Nathan jerks his hand away.

Two men in conservative suits are approaching.

Giving his hand back:

Nathan bellows back:

Also raising his voice at the offscreen bellower:

Nathan is getting worked up.

He grabs the overcoat being displayed by FBI #2.

Nathan realizes that he's gotten ink from his fingerprinting

all over the coat.

He is rising to his feet and hurling the coat to the floor.

He furiously kicks the coat.

Throughout the speech Nathan stalks the room, working himself

into a frenzy, furiously putting coffee cups onto coasters,

generally cleaning up, hectoring the police, and swiping

their feet off his furniture.

HOLE IN THE GROUND - DAY

Specifically, it is the hole in the muddy patch of earth

that Gale and Evelle climbed out of. We hear only the squish -

suck of many feet walking around in the mud offscreen.

We are pulling back to reveal the feet-the shiny black patent

leather shoes and blue pants cuffs - becoming quickly

spattered - of several policemen milling about the hole.

German shepherds sniff around also.

With a roar, motorcycle wheels enter frame. The bike's

jackbooted rider casually tools around the hole once; police

step back and dogs skitter away to give him room.

He backs toward the camera and stops, standing astride the

bike. The burning stub of a cheroot is dropped into frame;

it hisses angrily and dies in the mud. We start to crane up.

The whipcracking Biker cue mixes up. The Biker's motorcycle

idles with a deep rumble, like the roar of fire on the sun.

We are now framed looking over the Biker's shoulder. The

policemen's attitude to him seems to be deferential. One cop

in front of him is pointing a direction. The Biker is shaking

his head; he doesn't think they went that way.

Suddenly, with a loud whipcrack effect, the Biker's head

snaps to profile. He is staring across the field, stock-still,

having heard, smelled or sensed something.

The dogs milling around the hole also react, snapping to

attention, a split second after the BIKER.

THEIR POV

A jackrabbit is bounding away at the far end of the field.

THE DOGS

After a moment, their attention returns to the hole.

THE BIKER

His attention also returns to the matter at hand. He squints,

concentrating. His bike rumbles. Gradually his face sets in

a specific direction.

We pan down to the tattoo on his shoulder: "Mama Didn't Love

Me." His shoulder flexes once or twice as he revs the

throttle; then he puts the bike in gear and it roars out of

frame.

TRAILER KITCHEN CLOSE ON GALE AND EVELLE

They are both intently munching cornflakes, staring at

something offscreen. After a beat:

THEIR POV

Ed is sitting in the living room, bottle-feeding Nathan Jr.

She is surrounded by the rumpled sheets and blankets used by

the house guests. She does not respond to the ice-breaker.

Gale puts his spoon down and picks up a cigarette which has

been smoking in the ashtray next to him. There is a bead of

milk dribbling down his chin.

He takes a contemplative puff, studying Ed.

Through a mouthful of cornflakes:

Gale blows out smoke and picks up his spoon to start back in

on his cornflakes.

Hi is walking in, yawning.

Sharply, as Hi sits and starts to pour cornflakes into a

bowl:

Hi holds the cornflakes box arrested in mid-air. He looks at

Ed, who is motioning to gale and Evelle with her eyes.

Gale and Evelle are looking dumbly from Ed to Hi.

More relaxed now, to Ed:

CLOSE ON ED

Looking pleadingly at Hi.

BACK TO HI

Feeling the look, he goes back to his cornflakes.

Gale leans back to blow smoke at the ceiling.

WIDE SHOT GAS STATION BATHROOM

It is the bathroom where we earlier saw Gale and Evelle

combing their hair, now empty.

We are looking toward the door. The bathroom is quiet except

for the dripping sink, and the faint rumble of an approaching

motorcycle. It grows louder, then begins to recede as the

bike shoots by the station.

Suddenly we hear the screech of the bike's brakes.

EXT. THE STATION

We are on the road outside the gas station as the motorcycle

screeches to a halt in the foreground. The low wide shot

crops the BIKER at his shins. In the background behind him

is the gas station.

The Biker pauses for a moment, thinking or feeling.

BACK TO INT. BATHROOM

We hear the rumble of the bike approaching, very loud.

CRASH - the bathroom door flies open as the Biker bursts in

astride his hog, bright daylight streaming in with him to

throw him into imposing silhouette. The shafts of light

pouring in are defined by motes of dust dancing in the air.

HIS POV

Fast track in on the jar of hair jelly sitting on the shelf

under the mirror.

BACK TO BIKER

An extreme close shot shows his nostrils dilating as we hear

him sniff.

He revs the rumbling bike, stealing thunder from a far

mountain.

FRONT STOOP OF TRAILER

Hi, with Ed standing by, is just opening the door to a young

couple. Glen is a short stocky blond man in his early

thirties, wearing Bermuda shorts. DOT is wearing slacks,

heels, and a scarf over her hair.

As the door opens, Dot hops up the stoop shrieking.

From behind, Glen gives her an energetic THWOK on the ass.

Dot spins and smacks Glen across the face with her purse.

Through clenched teeth:

He reels under the blow.

Dot shrieks again, but this time muffles it with her own

hand. She tiptoes into the trailer, hand to her mouth.

Glen, rubbing his cheek, seems angry at himself.

Glen at the top of the stoop, turns out to the yard.

WIDE SHOT GLEN AND DOT'S KIDS

A scad of children, ranging in age from two to seven, are

crawling over Hi's car. One is beating on it with a large

stick, another sits on the hood pulling back one of the

windshield wipers, etc.

TRAILER BEDROOM

As Ed and Dot enter, Ed beaming as they go to the crib.

She puts her hand to her forehead, reacting to the baby as

if she is about to faint.

She hides her face in her hands and looks away as if blinded,

then sneaks a look around her hands.

TRAILER LIVING ROOM / KITCHEN

The weaving knee-level tracking shot is following a six-year-

old boy in shorts and a dirty T-shirt as he tramps around

the trailer, brandishing a big stick. He strikes the walls,

furniture, various other objects with his stick, hollering

"Bam! Bam-Bam!" with each blow.

The track weaves off him and onto Hi, who is bending down to

pull a couple of beers from the refrigerator. He raises his

voice to make himself heard over the din of all the children

boiling around the room:

Hi considers this.

Hi looks down.

One of Glen's children, in a cowboy hat, is squirting a squirt

gun into his crotch area.

He starts laughing, then catches himself.

He laughs; Hi doesn't react.

Hi looks over at the TV, which the bam-shouting six-year-old

is banging with his stick.

The kid in the cowboy hat is reaching up to slap Hi on the

ass.

He takes a sip of beer.

Hi is looking at another child who is just finishing off the

T in FART in crayon on the wall.

Glen chuckles, looking at his errant child.

The sound of shattering glass. Glen looks around.

EXT. PICNIC GROUNDS

Dot faces Hi and Ed across a picnic table covered with grilled

hamburgers, rolls, green jello mold, cooler, etc.

One of the younger children sits in the middle of the table,

occasionally taking a fistful of jello and flinging it at

Hi. The two women don't seem to notice.

Hi sits stock-still with a stony face.

Dot shrieks.

Hi shrugs, then flinches as a piece of jello hits his

shoulder.

Hi sits stoically. Dot is looking offscreen:

LAKESIDE PATH

We are tracking on Hi and Glen as they walk side by side.

Glen is sopping wet, wearing only swimming suit and wing-

tipped shoes. His body is ghostly pale except for a V-area

at his neck and his arms below the short-sleeve line, which

are a bright angry red.

Glen bursts out laughing; Hi walks on in silence.

Hi shakes his head.

He roars with laughter and slaps Hi heartily on the back. As

he chuckles sympathetically:

Glen is eyeing him shrewdly.

He stops walking. Hi stops also, looking at Glen, Still

puzzled. Glen lays a companionable hand on his shoulder.

He looks around as if to make sure they are not being

overheard. His tone is confidential.

Hi looks suspiciously at Glen's hand on his shoulder.

Glen nods energetically:

Through tightly clenched teeth:

Beaming, he takes his hand off Hi's shoulder and spreads his

arms.

THWAK - Hi's fist swings into frame to connect solidly with

Glen's jaw.

Glen's feet leave the ground. He flies back and lands in a

heap.

LOW-ANGLE REVERSE

Glen in the foreground, groggily rubbing his jaw; Hi

approaching menacingly.

He is scrambling to his feet.

With Hi still advancing, Glen starts to run.

TRACKING ON GLEN

With Hi pursuing in the background.

Glen is looking back over his shoulder to shout at Hi as he

runs.

CRASH! - Glen runs smack into a tree and drops like a sack

of cement.

INT. CAR NIGHT

Hi is driving, his jaw rigidly set, his temple throbbing.

Nathan Jr. sits in a safety seat between him and Ed.

He is pulling into a convenience store parking lot.

He puts the car in park but leaves it running.

As he gets out of the car:

INT. STORE

A hand enters to take a package of panty hose from the

standing rack.

CLOSE SHOT HUGGIES

A hand enters to take a big carton of disposable diapers

from the shelf.

CLOSEUP CASHIER

A pimply-faced lad with a paper 7-Eleven cap on his head. He

is looking up from a dirty magazine, reacting in horror to

something approaching.

HI'S POV

Hi is approaching the check-out island with a gun in one

hand, the carton of Huggies tucked under the other. The L'Eggs

stocking is pulled over his head to distort his features.

CLOSE SHOT CASHIER'S HAND

As he presses a silent alarm under the lip of his counter.

EXT. CAR

Ed is reading to Nathan Jr. from a large picture book.

She pauses for a moment, listening. We can barely hear a

distant siren. She resumes absently, but her voice trails

off.

We can definitely hear the WHOO-WHOO of the siren now, and

it is definitely approaching. Ed hooks an arm around the

seat and looks behind the car, then looks forward.

HER POV

Indistinctly visible through the semi-reflective glass are

two figures at the check-out island. One is pointing something

at the other.

BACK TO ED

As the siren is growing louder. Under her breath:

She unstraps herself and gets out of the car.

INT. STORE

Two-shot of Hi and the CASHIER, who is stuffing bills into a

grocery bag. Beyond them we can see Ed, outside, circling

the front of the car.

Her shout is muffled through the glass:

With this Hi notices her. He turns to the Cashier.

But Ed is already getting into the driver's seat of the car.

BACK TO ED

As she slams the car door shut. The siren is quite loud now.

The car squeals out of the lot.

WIDE SHOT THE STREET

The squad car tops a rise to bounce into view, its siren

wailing.

BACK TO THE STORE

Hi bursts out the door, still wearing the stocking. The carton

of Huggies is still tucked under one arm.

Bellowing hopefully after his departing car:

We hear the SMACK-CRACK of a gunshot and glass impact, but

the approaching squad car is still too far down the block to

have been the source.

Hi looks around the parking lot, bewildered.

The wailing siren is becoming painfully loud.

Hi looks behind him at the plate-glass front of the store,

where a bullet pock mars the glass.

HIS POV

Through the glass we see the pimply young Cashier with the

paper 7-Eleven cap pop up from behind the counter to sight

down his huge .44 Magnum for another shot. The gun is so big

he uses both hands to heft it.

SMACK-CRACK - the bullet kisses another hole in the glass.

Hi is off and running.

The squad car is screeching into the lot. An officer tumbles

out of the passenger side before the car is fully stopped.

He rolls on the pavement, then hurriedly rights himself and

takes up a half-kneeling shooting stance.

At the same time the little Cashier is emerging from the 7-

Eleven with his gun.

The two bang away at Hi's retreating figure - the Policeman's

revolver popping, the Cashier's Magnum booming.

We hear the Policeman who is still in the car drawling over

its loudspeaker:

TRACKING ON HI

Legs pumping, panty hose still over his head, its unused leg

streaming behind him like an aviator's scarf. The gun is

tucked into his belt; the Huggies are tucked securely under

his arm.

Behind him we can see the OFFICER and the Cashier squeeze

off another couple shots, and then the policeman piles back

into the squad car.

ED'S CAR

Driving. She hears distant gunshots.

She hangs a vicious U-turn.

TRACKING ON HI

Huffing and puffing down the road with his Huggies.

The cop car careens onto the street in the background, its

siren wailing.

The PASSENGER COP is leaning far out his window, one hand

gripping the light-and-siren rack, the other pointing a gun

at Hi, shooting away.

Bullets whizz past.

Suddenly, with a soft pthunk! the Huggies box pops forward,

out from under Hi's arm - hit by a bullet. Still running, Hi

reaches forward, tries to catch it on the fly, bobbles it,

tips it - loses it. He overruns it a couple steps before he

can bring himself up short.

He turns and reaches to pick up the box but - PING-PING -

bullets chew up the road near his hand.

Leaving the Huggies, Hi takes off through a well-manicured

yard.

The police car is proceeding on down the street to catch him

around the corner, the driver still drawling over his

loudspeaker:

YARD

Hi vaults a fence to land in the backyard.

As he straightens to his feet we hear a horrible snarling

and barking.

A huge black Doberman is bounding across the lawn. It looks

like it means to rip Hi's throat out.

LOW TRACKING SHOT TOWARD HI

The dog's racing POV as it bounds toward the paralyzed Hi.

The dog leaps - camera flying up toward Hi's face - and:

CLOSE SHOT HI'S FROZEN PROFILE

The dog's slavering muzzle flies into frame and - stops,

bare inches from Hi's nose, and the dog falls back, having

reached the end of his chain.

Hi resumes running.

CLOSE

On the dog, snarling and straining against the end of his

chain.

TRACKING

Down along the chain toward the spike mooring it to the

ground. As the dog strains, the spike starts to stir in the

ground.

Other dogs can be heard barking now, the Doberman having

started a sympathetic wave.

ED'S CAR

Her jaw set, she takes a hard turn, looking this way and

that.

The police car approaches and roars by, the Passenger Cop

still hanging out his window.

She is looking in her rearview mirror.

LOW TRACKING SHOT

The camera is shooting forward at ground level, following

the Doberman as it bounds along. The Doberman is dragging

his chain and spike, which stretch into the foreground,

bumping and scraping along the road.

Far ahead we can see Hi running, then turning down an

intersecting street.

A second dog peels into the road to bound along with the

Doberman.

TRACKING BEHIND HI

Running up a dark street. There is an oncoming pickup. Hi

runs directly at it.

INT. PICKUP

The DRIVER screams and brakes - not quite in time.

Hi rolls onto the hood, and off, and gamely trots over to

open the passenger door.

The Driver is leaning over to tell him:

He is displaying his gun as he starts to climb in.

Before Hi can get his door shut the Driver is obediently

peeling out.

Hi is reacting to an oncoming car. He peels the stocking off

to look, and leans across the Driver's lap to bellow as Ed's

car passes:

Hi turns to look through the back window.

HIS POV

Ed's car is braking and spinning into a U-turn.

BACK TO HI

Leaning out the window.

Next to him, the Driver is screaming.

As Hi turns forward, the entire windshield explodes in.

THEIR POV

The pimply-faced Cashier from the 7-Eleven is standing in

the middle of the road ahead, sighting down his .44 Magnum

for another shot.

We are rushing in.

THE DRIVER

Still screaming.

THE CASHIER

Ready to fire and - THUMP - he is bowled over by the arriving

Doberman, still trailing chain and spike, and now accompanied

by three other dogs, all braying at the top of their lungs.

Still screaming, the Driver puts his body into a hard right

turn to avoid the Cashier and hellhounds.

NEW STREET

Roaring up the new street, they are now directly in the path

of the oncoming police car, its siren wailing, barreling

straight at them.

Still screaming, the Driver leans into another hard right.

Wind is whistling in through where the windshield used to

be.

Two wheels hop curb as the car skids into the new street,

fishtails, and roars away.

ED'S CAR

She hears dogs, siren, squealing brakes on an adjacent street.

She gives the wheel a hard right turn.

But there is no cross street. The car hops the curb and roars

up someone's nicely tended front yard, heading for the gap

between this house and the one next door.

POLICE CAR

Recovered and turned around from its near collision with the

SCREAMING; Driver, the squad car is now squealing onto the

street the Screamer swerved on to - resuming pursuit.

As the police car roars down the street, Ed's car appears

from between two houses behind it, bounces down the front

yard to the street and follows the police.

SCREAMER'S PICKUP

Raking two-shot of Hi and the Screamer. Hi is looking back

over his shoulder at the pursuing police.

Desperately pleading:

Hi looks forward.

HIS POV

They are rushing toward an imposing colonial house planted

at the end of the dead-end street.

BACK TO HI

CLOSE SHOT BRAKE PEDAL

Stepped on hard. The brakes scream.

EXT. CAR

As the car squeals to a halt Hi is catapulted through where

the windshield used to be, tumbling over the hood onto the

front lawn.

He rolls to his feet and, as he runs up the lawn, calls back

over his shoulder:

INTO THE HOUSE

We are tracking behind Hi as he runs up to the house and

crashes through the screen door.

Still tracking behind him as he runs through the living room.

A middle-aged couple sits on the couch watching TV. They

look up as Hi rushes by.

Hi plunges down a staircase. As he does so we hear: ka-chick

ka-chock ka-chick ka-chock.

He emerges into a rec room where he and we rush past two

kids playing ping-pong. He runs out the back door.

TRACKING WITH THE POLICEMAN

As he runs into the house.

As he runs through the living room we catch a glimpse of the

middle-aged couple gaping at him.

OFFICER STEENSMA plunges down the stairs.

TRACKING ON HI

Outdoors now, running, crossing the street behind the house

and entering the parking lot of a supermarket on the other

side.

BACK TO THE HOUSE

As a pack of dogs thunders in. The lead Doberman with chain

and spike has now picked up about a dozen neighborhood dogs.

The dogs thunder through the living room and down the stairs.

As they hit the rec room the thunder of their feet turns

into the clatter of nails on tile.

INT. SUPERMARKET

As Hi bursts in. Tracking on him as he runs down the broad

front aisle, head whipping as he runs, looking up each

perpendicular lane, searching for something.

He turns up one of the last lanes, races along it and grabs

a carton of Huggies, still on the flat run.

He emerges into the broad back aisle and runs along it, but

at the first perpendicular lane he hits, we see Officer

Steensma, gun leveled, at the other end. He fires.

Hi keeps running.

The Policeman is running along the front aisle, keeping pace

with Hi running along the back aisle. He squeezes off shots

at Hi as each lane gives him the opportunity.

Hi abruptly stops between lanes and doubles back, losing the

Policeman. He runs down the second lane he comes to toward

the front of the store.

The pack of dogs appears at the end of the lane and thunders

up toward Hi, braying at the top of their doggy lungs. The

lead Doberman holds in his teeth a paper 7-Eleven cap.

Hi reverses again, and emerges into the back aisle.

BANG! A pyramid of cranberry juice explodes at his shoulder.

The Policeman has been waiting at the end of the back aisle;

he aims once again.

Hi plunges down the next lane but is brought up short as KA-

BOOM! five jars of applesauce explode in front of him.

Hi looks.

Standing in the raised platform-cubicle at the front of the

store is the Store Manager, a fat man in a white short-sleeved

shirt with a lit cigarette dangling from his mouth.

The Manager cracks open his shotgun and inserts two more

cartridges - THOONK THOONK - in the smoking chamber.

Hi doubles back once again toward the back aisle.

He is still several paces from the end of the lane when the

Policeman appears there, squaring to face him.

The Policeman is in front of him. The MANAGER is blowing out

groceries on the shelves behind him.

CLOSE ON POLICEMAN

As he coolly levels his police special and takes aim at Hi .

POLICEMAN'S POV

Still on the dead run, Hi is flinging the carton of Huggies.

The carton rockets straight at the camera.

BACK TO POLICEMAN

Futilely raising his gun to avoid-impact: The Huggies catch

him square on the chest. The force makes him stumble one

fatal step backwards - into the back aisle - where:

CRASH - He is hit broadside and bowled over by a rocketing

shopping cart, propelled by an hysterically screaming SHOPPER.

TRACKING ON SHOPPER

Racing on down the back aisle, bellowing.

HER FEET

Tracking from in front. Beyond her we can see the pack of

furiously barking dogs, nipping at her heels. They boil over

the prostrate Officer Steensma, and this is the last we see

of him in this movie.

EXT. STORE

As Hi emerges through the back door. Ed is just skidding

around the corner.

Hi scrambles in the passenger side.

INT. CAR

Raking two-shot with Hi in the foreground. The car peels out

of the lot.

THWAK - Ed gives him a good hard slap and Hi's head rolls

toward the camera.

Rubbing his jaw:

Still at top speed, she leans into a hard left, tires

squealing.

Hi's eyes are fixed on something in the road ahead.

Hi's attention is still on the road. He is opening his door,

even though the car is still racing along. He absently

concedes:

LOW ANGLE THE STREET

In the extreme foreground sits the first carton of Huggies

that Hi dropped in the middle of the road. The car is

approaching.

As the car passes the carton, Hi's hand reaches from the

passenger door and snags it.

REVERSE

As Hi pulls the carton in and slams his door shut. Crane up

in the car speeding away.

TRAILER LIVING ROOM

As Ed bursts in the front door, holding Nathan Jr.

ON GALE AND EVELLE

They look up, dumbstruck and mortified, from the sofa where

the have been watching TV.

Gale and Evelle look appealingly toward Hi, who shifts

uncomfortably behind Ed.

Ed is unmoved.

She storms into the bedroom and slams the door.

There is an awkward silence as Gale studies his thumb and

Evelle stares at the ceiling. Finally Evelle turns to Hi.

He looks at Evelle.

His gesture seems to take in the trailer and the entire

domestic situation.

Hi is shaking his head.

He is handing Hi a folded-up picture.

Gale chuckles.

Hi is still shaking his head.

The camera has floated in to a close shot of Hi, staring

glumly at GALE.

TRACKING ON MOTORCYCLE NIGHT

Following it, very close, we see only its rear wheel and

fender and twin exhaust pipes, one on either side. Flame is

boiling in each exhaust pipe as the hog roars.

HIGHER TRACKING SHOT

From behind the Biker's head as he rides through the night.

With the sharp whipcrack effect he suddenly looks left,

searching. With a second whipcrack effect he suddenly looks

right, still searching.

He banks into a turn.

EXT. TRAILER

Creeping in. Late at night. We are tracking in toward the

one window that is illuminated, with a feeble yellow light.

In voice-over, Hi is composing a letter.

INT. TRAILER

Creeping in on Hi 's hunched back, as he sits over the kitchen

table writing the letter. The yellow lamp sitting on the

table is the only light on in the trailer.

LIVING ROOM

Creeping in on GALE and EVELLE, sprawled on the sofa and

easy chair respectively, sawing boards.

BACK TO HI

Still creeping in.

INT. 7-ELEVEN

Creeping in on the pimply-faced Cashier, sitting asleep behind

the counter, a dirty magazine lying face-down, open on his

chest.

We are slowly panning over to the newspaper rack, revealing

tomorrow's headline: "WHERE IS NATHAN JR.?"

ARIZONA HOME

Creeping in on Nathan Jr. in the living room, asleep in his

ottoman armchair, lit only by the snow from the TV set he is

facing, a half-full glass of milk on the coffee table next

to him.

His robe is disheveled; his eyeglasses have slid down his

nose.

TRAILER BEDROOM

Creeping in on Ed and Nathan Jr., asleep together in the

double bed. Ed's arm is draped protectively over the sleeping

infant.

We start to hear the rumble of the motorcycle mix up again.

BLACKNESS

Night sky. The motorcycle tire enters frame as the bike comes

to a halt. The Biker plants a jackbooted foot in the

foreground.

The engine rumbles.

We are craning up over the Biker's back to reveal what he is

looking at: We are on a bluff overlooking the trailer park.

In the window of one trailer below, a yellow light glows.

BACK TO HI

Still creeping in.

FIRE

Roaring at the cut. Through it we can see the Biker sitting

on the ground, legs stretched out in front of him, back

resting against his parked motorcycle, arms folded across

his chest.

Perfectly motionless, he stares at the campfire.

We are floating in toward him.

As we come closer, eventually drawing in to a close shot of

his face, we gradually realize something peculiar about his

eyes: He seems to have none. Although his eyes are

unblinkingly open we do not see eyeballs, but only fire -

either a reflection of the campfire or something roaring -

burning-inside.

CLOSE SHOT DOOR MAT

It reads: "Come On In! To Unpainted Arizona."

The smoking butt of a cheroot is dropped onto the mat. A

jackbooted foot grinds it out.

CLOSE SHOT BAR ON GLASS DOOR

Leading into the showroom. The Biker's mail-and-chained fist

pushes the door open.

LOW WIDE TRACKING SHOT

Behind the jackboots as they stroll through a showroom of

unpainted furniture and bathroom fixtures.

TRACKING ON THE MAILED HAND

Swinging as he walks, the Biker's hand produces a fresh

cheroot from no apparent source-either sleight-of-hand or

magic.

THE OTHER HAND

Similarly producing a long wooden match.

DISCOLORED TEETH

Biting down on the cigar.

HAND

Dragging the kitchen match along the unfinished wood surface

of an expensive bureau, leaving an ugly black scar.

The match erupts into roaring flame.

CIGAR

Crackling as it is lit.

DOOR

Reading "Executive Offices." The mailed fist pushes it open.

PEBBLED GLASS DOOR

From the inside of the office. The name on the pebbled glass

is a backwards Nathan Arizona.

There is the shadow of a man approaching the door, and muffled

voices.

The door swings open and Nathan stands looking in, his middle-

aged secretary hanging at his elbow.

Nathan is staring toward his desk.

The secretary leaves.

NATHAN'S POV

The Biker sits with his back to us, jackboots propped lazily

on the desk.

His head bobs and ducks, as if he is following some movement

in the air in front of him.

BACK TO NATHAN

Eyes on the Biker he slams the door shut behind him, looking

for some reaction.

BIKER

No reaction. His head continues to bob and duck.

BACK TO NATHAN

Circling the Biker as he crosses to sit behind his desk.

HIS POV

Arcing around to reveal the Biker's face. He still does not

react to Nathan, not even bothering to give him a glance.

His eyes continue to follow some phantom movement.

When the Biker speaks it is still without looking at Nathan,

and with a surprisingly soft voice and mild, unhurried manner:

He finally looks at Nathan, and smiles faintly.

He takes a drag on his cigar.

SMALLS is pleasantly shaking his head.

Nathan is looking at him stonily.

Quick as a flash the heretofore languid Smalls bolts forward,

his fist stopped an inch short of Nathan's nose.

EXTREME CLOSE SHOT SMALLS' FINGERS

His index finger and thumb are pinched together-holding the

leg of a struggling fly that he has just plucked from the

air.

He flicks the fly away.

He sits back down.

Nathan stares grimly at Smalls.

Nathan swivels to punch numbers on a telephone.

He swivels back, looking up, and his speech stops short.

HIS POV

The office is empty. A whipcrack effect builds to the cut

and:

CLOSE ON HI

His eyes snap open as the whipcrack echoes away.

He has been slumped over the kitchen table, asleep.

Hi looks up.

Gale and Evelle are smiling down at him.

Hi takes the envelope that he was slumped over, to Ed written

on its face. As he sticks it to the refrigerator door with a

broccoli magnet:

There is a harsh knock at the door. All three tense.

Hi is staring. The knock comes again.

He goes to the door, pulls back its shade and peeks out.

Under his breath:

He opens the door.

EXT. TRAILER

It is Glen. He backs nervously down to the foot of the stoop

as Hi stands in the half open doorway. Glen comes to rest a

few feet away from the stoop.

He is wearing a neckbrace. The bridge of his eyeglasses is

taped together. Cotton wadding is stuffed up his nose, which

is darkly discolored. He holds a rolled up newspaper.

His station wagon is parked behind him, idling.

Glen speaks in a very nasal voice:

Hi is looking at him evenly.

Hi is suddenly nervous and urgent:

Hi takes one step down holding out a calming hand.

Glen takes two nervous steps away and reassures himself by

resting a hand on the door of his station wagon.

Hi stops short. Glen smiles.

He spits on the dirt in front of him.

Hi's face is set in rigid dismay.

Glen is getting into his car.

He slams the door.

And the car squeals off.

Hi looks back at the trailer.

HIS POV

A slat in the window blind drops back into place.

BACK TO HI

He opens the door.

INT. TRAILER

Evelle is already emerging from the bedroom with the baby in

his arms.

Hi moves toward Evelle. His teeth are set; he means business.

Gale steps in front of Hi.

Hi gives Gale a hard push to get past him. Gale staggers

back but recovers and grabs Hi in a bear hug.

Hi flips Gale. Gale lands on a coffee table which flips up

and crashes back down.

Evelle is dancing back out of Hi's reach. As Hi lunges for

him the prostrate Gale grabs his legs.

Hi goes down hard.

Gale leaps to his feet and - CRASH - bangs his head up against

an overhanging lamp. Both of his hands fly up to massage the

top of his head.

THOOMP - Hi's fist flies into frame to connect with Gale's

unguarded stomach. Gale doubles over, clutching at his gut.

Hi interlaces his fingers to make a club of his two hands.

With Gale's bowed head a target in front of him, Hi swings

his hands up over his head.

Hi's knuckles scrape painfully against the plaster of the

too - low ceiling. Skin is flayed, plaster crumbles.

Hi grabs at his knuckles in pain. Gale lunges with a mid-

body tackle that sends Hi crashing into the wall.

Gale, still on top of him, reaches back to throw a punch.

The reach-back sends his elbow crashing through a window but

doesn't stop the punch.

It connects with Hi's jaw.

Gale throws another quick punch, all his weight behind it.

Hi's head bobs sideways just in time and Gale's fist goes

through the wall. It is momentarily stuck there.

Hi uses the opportunity to grab Gale's one free arm with

both of his. He is twisting it to make Gale, roaring with

pain, twist around and present his back to him.

Hi climbs aboard, grabbing Gale's face.

Gale, still roaring, is pulling his fist out of the hole. He

grabs a lath exposed by the hole and pulls; it tears out of

the wall and snaps free, giving him a length of about two

feet.

Gale is rampaging around like a grizzly bear hemmed in a too-

small space. Hi is hanging on for dear life, his own feet

flailing this way and that, knocking over lamps and wall

fixtures as Gale bends and twirls about, trying to shake him

loose. Gale crashes and bounces off the walls, roaring in

pain and fury.

Close shots of Gale's face show his features impossibly and

grotesquely contorted by Hi's hand, squeezing, gripping and

clutching at it.

Evelle is dancing around with the baby, dodging crashing

furniture and flailing body parts.

EXT. WIDE SHOT THE TRAILER

At the cut Gale's roaring drops out. We hear the chirping of

birds and the laughter of children playing in the

neighborhood.

It is a sunny day.

BACK TO INT. TRAILER

Gale still roars. With a last mighty effort, he finally swings

Hi off his body.

Hi crashes against a wall and through it to land in the:

BATHROOM

Amid a shower of plaster dust and lath. Hi has landed,

groggily, against the toilet.

Evelle enters now with his hands free, apparently having set

the baby down somewhere.

He yanks the cord off the bathroom blinds.

LIVING ROOM

Hi is seated in a straight-back chair, still violently

struggling but Gale's arms are wrapped around him from behind.

Evelle is just finishing tying off his wrists behind the

chair.

No one talks; there is nothing left to say.

Finished, Gale goes to the door and Evelle goes to the

bedroom. He emerges with the baby and precedes Gale out the

door, Gale slamming it behind him.

Hi starts bucking and struggling, weeping tears of rage and

frustration. He succeeds only in tipping forward, face down

into the carpet, the strapped-on chair pressing down on top

of him.

His profile is pressed into the carpet.

Offscreen we hear the door of the trailer opening.

HI'S POV

At carpet level. Gale's shoes enter his field of vision.

They stride over to a mess of debris in the corner of the

living room.

OBJECTIVE SHOT

As Gale paws through the wreckage to expose the copy of Dr.

Spock's Baby and Child Care. He grabs the book.

HI'S POV

The feet walk away and leave his field of vision.

CLOSE ON HI

As we hear the door slam shut with horrible finality.

Hi's mouth stretches wide. He ROARS with grief and

frustration.

WIDE SHOT

Moving down the road toward an oncoming car. As the oncoming

car gets closer we can see Gale and Evelle in its front seat.

As the car passes we pan with it, to reveal that we have

been shooting from the inside of another car, and we hold on

the profile of its driver: Ed. She has just watched the other

car shoot past.

INT. DEVASTATED TRAILER

As Ed sits heavily into frame, apparently in shock, her frozen

profile to the camera as she stares straight ahead into space.

Her foreground hand absently holds a length of cord.

Beyond her in the middle background Hi is rummaging in the

debris. He stands up, cropped from the chest down and starts

loading bullets into the chamber of Ed's .38 police special.

He snaps the chamber shut and leaves frame, still talking.

He is walking back into frame holding another handgun now in

addition to the .38, this one an automatic.

He snaps a clip into the automatic.

Hi is leaving frame again, continuing to talk as we hear him

rummaging offscreen.

Hi enters frame with the two handguns stuck in his belt,

holding his pump-action shotgun.

He primes the shotgun: WHOOSH-CLACK.

TRACKING SHOT

From the front bumper of an automobile. Beautiful desert

stretches to the horizon. The road rushes under the camera.

GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR

Gale drives, gazing out at the road. Evelle holds Nathan

Jr., occasionally bouncing him.

Contemplatively:

Evelle is looking down at the baby, shifting him in his lap.

Gale looks over.

Evelle, beaming, looks up from the baby to Gale.

THE SUN

A huge rumbling rippling red ball that fills the frame.

As we hear his footfalls on concrete steps, Smalls rises

into frame, apparently climbing a stoop. The sun behind him

throws him into silhouette; the extreme telephoto flattens

him against the sun. Heat waves ripple between us and him,

making his figure slightly waver.

The rumble builds, louder and louder, until it is snapped

off by a-

INT. TRAILER

CLICK. The front door handle clicks open and Smalls stands

in the doorway. The abandoned trailer is perfectly quiet.

The room is a complete shambles from the fight. Sunlight

filters in between the slats of the venetian blinds. Smoke

from Lenny Smalls' cheroot ripples up through the light.

After only a momentary pause at the door to take in the scene,

Smalls goes directly to a specific spot in the debris and

nudges some of it aside with his toe, exposing a piece of

paper.

He bends down to pick it up but suddenly freezes, with a

soft grunt of surprise.

HIS POV

At knee-height on the wall in front of him, "FART" is scrawled

in crayon.

BACK TO SMALLS

As he stands up with the piece of paper.

THE PAPER

It is Gale's picture of the Farmers and Mechanics Bank.

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE

Close on a carton of diapers being set down on the check-out

counter.

WIDER

Evelle and the Cashier, a late-middle-aged man (perhaps the

proprietor of this small mom-and-pop store) face each other

across the check-out counter. Evelle has various baby

purchases - the diapers, baby food, etc. - piled on the

counter. The Cashier is ringing them up.

Through the open door beyond them we can see a strip of the

parking lot.

We see Gale trotting past through the visible part of the

parking lot, cooing "Weeeeee!" as he holds Nathan Jr. Up

over his head.

He takes a plastic-covered squirt gun off a display rack and

drops it on the counter. He is looking around at the other

impulse purchases displayed by the register; he unhooks a

bag of balloons.

Gale is trotting by in the opposite direction: "Weeeeee!"

Evelle is pulling a gun out of his belt.

The Cashier is already down on the floor, out of frame.

As he heads for the door with the groceries:

EXT. STORE

As Evelle hurriedly emerges with the two bags. Faintly we

can hear the Cashier bellowing: "One one thousand, two one

thousand..."

Gale is slipping the baby back into his car seat, which sits

on the roof of the car. He starts doing up the straps.

Hands free now, Gale reaches for the back door.

Gale has the door open. Evelle starts throwing in the

groceries.

GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR

Gale drives as Evelle sorts through his purchases.

Gale is looking around, puzzled.

The two men look at each other.

REVERSE

The two men's heads whip around to look in the back seat.

BACK TO FRONT ANGLE

They look at each other in horror.

The two men's eyes widen as they remember at the same time:

both look up at the roof of the car.

CLOSE ON GALE'S FOOT

Coming off the accelerator.

CLOSE ON EVELLE

Screaming as he watches the foot:

But too late.

GALE'S FOOT

Already plunging down on the brake. SQUEEEEEEEAL...

TWO SHOT

Evelle is screaming at the top of his lungs as the car rocks

to a stop. He peers through the windshield, still screaming,

but nothing has shot off the roof of the car.

He cranes his neck to look up the slant of the windshield

toward the roof. This of course gives him no view; still

screaming, he thrusts his body out his open window to look

up at the roof. His scream is muted as his head disappears

from view, then comes back full force as he ducks back in,

frantically shaking his head.

With this Gale's last hope disappears and he starts bellowing

also.

GALE'S FOOT

Rising from the brake to plunge down on the accelerator.

EXT. THE CAR

As it hangs a squealing U-turn and races off at top speed.

LOW WIDE SHOT

In the foreground Nathan Jr. sits upright in his car seat,

in the middle of the road that fronts the convenience store.

He is placidly looking at the scenery.

Faintly, we hear the Cashier bellowing:

GALE AND EVELLE

In their speeding car, both staring out at the road ahead,

mouths gaping, emitting ear-splitting screams.

INT. STORE

Shot faces the front of the store with some of the street

visible outside. The Cashier on the floor is out of frame,

but we can hear him loud and clear:

He rises into frame, back to the camera, just as: We see

Gale and Evelle's car, through the front window, roaring up

the street. Quick as a shot, the Cashier has dropped back

out of frame and resumes bellowing:

The car is starting to squeal to a screaming halt.

BACK TO LOW WIDE SHOT

With Nathan Jr. in the foreground. Gale and Evelle's car

comes to a rocking halt behind - and inches shy of - the

baby.

Evelle's door is already open. He bolts from it and runs

over to the baby, blubbering. He picks up the car seat and

Nathan Jr.

Gale is also getting out of the car.

Gale, choked up, speaks in a low unsteady voice:

HI AND ED'S CAR

Hi driving. Both are staring wordlessly ahead at the road.

Hi looks over at Ed, glum but trying to be kind.

He is nodding to himself.

This shuts Hi up.

After a moment:

Hi clears his throat.

FARMERS AND MECHANICS BANK

Baking in the noonday sun.

GALE AND EVELLE

Sitting in the front seat of their idling car, looking at

the bank.

They look at each other. Gale reaches for his door.

INT. FARMERS AND MECHANICS BANK

As Gale and Evelle bang in through the door. Evelle holds a

shotgun; Gale holds a shotgun in one hand and Nathan Jr. in

his car seat in the other.

Everyone freezes, staring at Gale and Evelle. An Old Hayseed

with his hands in the air speaks up:

Promptly:

There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on

the ground.

Gale is tossing Evelle a sack.

He is looking in shock at the tellers' counter.

There is no one behind the counter.

A muffled voice from offscreen:

Evelle is momentarily abashed, but then brightens:

Gale registers understanding.

There is a murmur of acknowledgment from all the people on

the ground.

EXT. POLICE CAR

The camera is locked down on the roof of the rocketing squad

car, looking past its flashing gumballs.

The car is approaching the townlet, its siren wailing.

BACK TO THE BANK

A teller is finishing stuffing the last of two burlap bags.

Close on her hands, we see her putting in a cash packet that

is really only a few bills and a sleeve surrounding and hiding

a small plastic device.

The teller hits a button on the device and it starts ticking;

she shoves it into the sack.

He is grabbing the two sacks and tosses one to Gale, who

also picks up the baby. As the two are backing toward the

door:

They bolt out the door.

EXT. POLICECAR

Siren jumps in loud at the cut. It is the same locked-down

shot over the gumballs.

EXT. GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR

Peeling out from in front of the bank.

INT. GALE AND EVELLE'S CAR

Gale is driving; Evelle starts pawing through one of the

sacks.

A thought registers with Gale and Evelle at the same moment.

They look at each other. They both twist frantically to look

in the back seat.

Bellowing:

KA-POP! With a loud flat crack something detonates in the

front seat and the interior of the car is spattered with

bright blue paint.

Gale and Evelle, both covered in blue, are screaming in rage,

fear and incomprehension. Blue dollar bills snap and flutter

around the inside of the car.

The car is swerving wildly as Gale drives blind, the inside

of the windshield covered with blue paint. He reaches forward

to wipe clear a patch of windshield.

HIS POV

As the blue paint is smeared away we see Hi and Ed's car

parked broadside in the middle of the road. Hi and Ed are in

front of it, Hi aiming his scatter gun, Ed a revolver.

The guns spit orange flame.

HI'S POV

Down the barrel of his shotgun. The car with the blue interior

is swerving crazily at us, one front tire blown out.

Hi lets go with the other barrel.

The shot chews up the front grill, shatters one headlight

and blows out the other front tire. The hood of the car flies

open.

The car is squealing to a halt and Gale and Evelle pile out,

still bellowing.

Ed is running over to Gale and Evelle's car, throwing open

the back door to look for the baby but coming out only with

Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care.

Evelle is staggering around in shock, looking in disbelief

at his own blue body.

Evelle points this way and that, in a state of confusion.

Hi and Ed are climbing into their car.

Hi and Ed are already peeling out.

CLOSE ON NATHAN JR.

Sitting placidly in his car seat that sits in the middle of

the road in front of the bank.

We can hear the wail of the police siren still approaching.

As we hold on Nathan Jr. we hear the distant booming of a

shotgun.

As we boom up to show the empty street beyond the baby, we

hear the crack of return fire and furiously squealing brakes.

The screech culminates in a loud explosion that snaps off

the siren wail. The police car is apparently history.

From beyond the crest of the road ahead a ball of flame has

leapt up with the explosion. As the explosion echoes and

fades we hear the deep rumble of an approaching engine.

Lenny Smalls' motorcycle appears over the rise. Framed against

fire and smoke, he is coming directly toward us, and the

baby.

FROM BEHIND HI AND ED

As they top a rise coming from the other direction. We see

the baby sitting in the middle of the street, and Lenny fast

approaching from the background.

LOCKED DOWN TO MOTORCYCLE

The extremely low wide shot, locked down to the speeding

bike, shows us rushing toward the rear of Nathan Jr's car

seat.

With a clank of chains Lenny's hand drops down into frame,

palm forward, tensing to scoop up the car seat that we are

almost upon.

A tattoo on Lenny's wrist reads "No Prisoners."

REVERSE

Low shot with Nathan Jr. in the foreground.

He is scooped up and out of frame as Lenny roars by.

ON LENNY

Roaring along. He hooks the car seat over his handlebars.

OVER HI AND ED'S SHOULDERS

Lenny is approaching. Under her breath:

Lenny is sawing a shotgun out of his back holster and leveling

it at the oncoming car.

Lenny is sighting down the gun, swinging it around as he

approaches the car.

HI AND ED DUCK JUST AS:

The shotgun spits orange flame and the windshield explodes

in.

Lenny roars by.

LENNY'S POV

The baby on the handlebars in the foreground; the road rushing

by beyond him.

The bike banks into a hard turn.

FACING HI AND ED

Shooting through where the windshield used to be, cutting in

at the end of the skid as the car rocks to a halt.

Hi and Ed are raising their heads. Facing forward, they do

not see Lenny approaching again through the rear window.

He is sawing out his second shotgun.

Hi looks around, reaches and pulls Ed down beneath him just

as:

KA-BOOM! - The second shotgun roars and the back window spits

in.

As Lenny roars past the back window he casually flips

something in.

LOOKING DOWN AT HI AND ED

Folded over in the front seat. Below them something bounces

into and around the leg well - Lenny's grenade.

EXT. CAR

As the two front doors fly open and Hi and Ed spill out - Hi

from the driver's side, heading for the far side of the road,

and Ed from the passenger side.

ON ED

As she dives for cover behind a parked car. Beyond her -

KABOOM! - their car explodes and bounces, pouring black smoke.

ON HI

The explosion flings him to the ground in the middle of the

street.

THROUGH FIRE AND SMOKE

Looking up the street to where Lenny is wheeling his bike in

a U-turn. He is not finished yet.

Hi flat on his back, woozily shaking his head.

He weakly raises himself on his elbows to look down the

street.

HI'S POV

Looking down the length of his own body. His legs stretch

away in a V.

Crashing down from a wheelie, Lenny's roaring bike is almost

upon him - aiming up the middle of the V.

HI

He rolls. As the bike is roaring by:

HI'S HAND

Reaches and snags a chain on Lenny's passing boot.

HI

Dragged several yards before the boot shakes him off, leaving

him on his stomach in the middle of the road.

Hi looks up the road.

HI'S POV

Lenny is again sluing the bike around.

REAR WHEEL OF BIKE

Smoking as it skids around in the foreground, completing its

turn.

Boom up Lenny's back to reveal Ed stomping straight up the

street toward him - unarmed, unafraid.

BACK TO HI

He reaches back to pull up his shirt, revealing a gun tucked

in his pants in the small of his back. He grabs the gun.

OVER LENNY'S SHOULDER

As Ed closes in.

Lenny's arms rise into frame. With a roll of his wrists two

knives appear in his hands.

BACK TO HI

On his stomach, sighting down the gun toward Lenny.

HIS POV

Ed stepping into his line of fire, blocking Lenny.

FROM BEHIND LENNY

Raising an arm to stab.

Ed stoops to scoop the baby from the car seat, revealing:

Hi, behind her. He fires.

LENNYS HAND

Drilled by Hi's bullet, drops its knife.

The exit wound spurts, not flesh and blood, but a brief jet

of fire.

LENNY

Quick as a flash hurling the other knife at Hi.

HI

As the knife stings the gun out of his hand.

KNIFE ON THE GROUND AT LENNY'S FEET

Lenny bends to scoop up the knife he dropped.

TRACKING BEHIND ED

As she runs toward the bank, clutching Nathan Jr. to her

chest.

INT. BANK

As Ed bursts in. The floor is littered with obedient hayseeds.

From where he lies prone:

BANG: The front door bursts open before Lenny's roaring hog.

It sails off a step into the sunken atrium, and lands with a

CRASH amidst the hayseeds.

TRACKING BEHIND ED

As she runs for the back door and pushes through it.

TRACKING BEHIND LENNY

As he slaloms through the wildly scattering hayseeds.

EXT. BACK OF BANK

As Lenny bursts out.

With a whipcrack effect he looks left, then right. He jerks

the bike right, to where an alleyway flanks the side of the

bank.

ALLEYWAY

Ed is running up the alley toward the front of the bank as

Lenny enters. He roars after her.

LENNY'S POV

Roaring down the alley.

TRACKING IN FRONT OF ED

As the bike approaches behind her.

BACK TO LENNY'S POV

Closing on Ed as she reaches the mouth of the alley. A plank

swings into frame, straight at the camera.

REVERSE

Matching action as Hi finishes swinging the plank into Lenny's

face.

Lenny hits the ground hard as his bike spins out from under

him.

THE BIKE

Riderless, twisting crazily into the street where it

collapses.

HI AND ED

Lenny is rising to his feet beyond them as Hi nods

encouragement to Ed.

Lenny is reaching back to throw his knife.

Hi, unaware, is turning to face him, presenting the plank as -

the knife is thrown.

It thunks into the plank, piercing it through.

Hi backs up, swinging the knife - studded plank to make Lenny

keep his distance.

TRACKING BEHIND LENNY'S SHOULDER

As he reaches up to unhook a chain from a ring on his vest

shoulder.

LENNY'S HAND

As the free chain drops down into his palm.

LENNY

Swinging the chain - WHOOSH WHOOSH - at the backpedaling Hi.

THE PLANK

As the chain snakes around it and rips it out of Hi's hands.

LENNY

Grabbing Hi by the shirtfront.

LENNY'S OTHER HAND

Swings down and brass knuckles appear on it.

ON HI

As Lenny's fist swings into frame to club him forehand, then

backhand.

An uppercut from his heels sends Hi sprawling back.

A PARKED CAR

As Hi lands against it, banging his head. He sinks to the

ground.

Lenny is casually walking toward him, lighting a cheroot. Hi

flops over onto his stomach and starts wriggling under the

car.

FROM UNDER THE CAR

Hi's face in the foreground as he desperately seeks escape.

Behind him we can see Lenny casually reaching down and

grabbing an ankle.

The shot is framed identically to the shot in the Arizona

nursery where Hi pulled a baby from under the crib.

Lenny pulls. Hi is dragged away from the camera and out from

under the car.

HI

Struggling to stand up.

Lenny wraps his arms around him and applies a tremendous

bear hug.

HI'S ARMS

Crushed against Lenny. His hands paw futilely at Lenny's

chest.

FULL SHOT

Lenny finally flings Hi away.

HI

Landing in the dust, all the fight beaten out of him.

LENNY

Tired of the fight: He saws out both shotguns

THE HAMMERS

On the guns as Lenny's thumbs draw them back. He raises the

guns to fire.

HI

The end of the road.

He wearily lifts a hand, defensively extending it in front

of him - then stops, staring at:

HI'S HAND

A hand grenade pin hangs, glinting, from one of his fingers.

Pawing at Lenny's chest he must have hooked his finger through

its ring.

HI

Reacting.

LENNY

Reacting to Hi reacting. He looks down.

LENNY'S CHEST

On the bandoliers across his chest, silver pins glint in all

the grenades - except one. Its squeeze-lever juts at a right

angle from the grenade.

LENNY'S FACE

Hi's jaw drops.

LENNY'S FEET

The lit cheroot hits the ground between his boots.

HI

Scrambling to his feet.

LENNY

Trying to drop the shotguns to free his hands. In his panic

his fingers tangle in the trigger guards.

HI

Starting to run.

LENNY

Finally freeing his hands.

HI

Diving behind the parked car.

LENNY'S CHEST

His hands fly in to wrap around the grenade - too late -

bright light:

LENNY

Blows sky-high. There is a roar as if the earth were cracking

open and flame as if hell were slipping out.

We pan the fire to the sky.

A white aluminum ladder rises up into the blackness, clanking

softly. The top of the ladder arcs toward the camera.

JUMP BACK

To the interior of the Arizona second-story nursery as the

ladder comes to rest against the window frame.

It is late at night; the nursery is dark and empty.

THE HEADBOARD

Of the unpainted crib with the burned-in names: Harry, Barry,

Larry, Garry, and Nathan Jr.

As we pull back from the headboard Ed's arms are gently

depositing the sleeping Nathan Jr. into the crib. Hi puts

the singed copy of Dr. Spock's Baby and Child Care next to

the baby.

REVERSE

Hi and Ed looking sadly down at the baby.

The silence is broken by the bleat of a squeeze-me toy as

the lights are snapped on. Hi and Ed turn, startled.

NURSERY DOORWAY

Nathan stands in his jammies, hair disheveled, holding a gun

and squinting against the light.

Keeping the gun trained on Hi and Ed, he slowly raises a

pair of eyeglasses to his nose.

He advances cautiously into the nursery, gesturing with his

gun.

Hi and Ed back away from the crib.

Nathan peers in and studies the baby for a moment.

He lays the gun down, tenderly picks up the baby and holds

him to his chest. A tear forms at the corner of his eye.

Hi and Ed are quietly moving back towards the ladder.

Hi and Ed Stop.

As he bounces the baby, studying Hi and Ed:

Hi shrugs.

Nathan turns to put the baby back in the crib.

He turns around with a thought:

Nathan throws his hands up in the air.

Hi does a small take, surprised at this much integrity.

She stands looking into the crib. Hi steps up next to her

and puts an arm around her shoulder.

Ed starts crying softly as she gazes into the crib. Hi murmurs

something to comfort her.

Nathan is studying the two of them.

Hi turns to face him. He speaks in a rush.

Nathan looks at her. Finally he nods and sighs.

He indicates Ed with a nod of the head.

He clears his throat and turns to the door. His tone is harder

again:

He snaps off the lights.

He has disappeared into the hall. We hear his voice receding:

HIGH SHOT

Looking straight down at Hi, asleep in the trailer bedroom.

We start to crane down.

EXTREME WIDE SHOT

A beautiful dusk landscape. We are floating in over the field,

abutting the prison, that Gale and Evelle popped out of.

In the middle background of the extreme long shot two men

are walking across the field.

BACK TO HIGH SHOT BEDROOM

Craning down toward Hi.

BACK TO FIELD

Still floating forward but now much closer to the two walking

men. We see that they are Gale and Evelle. Both are still

dyed blue.

They are approaching the hole in the ground.

Evelle is starting to climb into the hole.

Evelle has disappeared and Gale starts climbing in.

FLOATING UP THE WALK OF THE ARIZONA HONE

The front door has a holly wreath on it.

ARIZONA LIVING ROOM

Five three-year-olds in their pajamas are opening presents

around a tree as Nathan and Florence look on.

We have been isolating in on one of the children peeling the

wrappings off a package marked to Nathan Jr. Inside is a

shiny red plastic football.

FLOATING IN TOWARD A STATION WAGON

Pulled over on the state highway in the middle of the desert,

a police motorcycle parked behind it. Glen is leaning out

the driver's window of the car talking to the state trooper

who stands facing him.

Glen is grinning and talking with his hands cupped in front

of him, as when he told Hi about the Pollack who almost

stepped in the pile of shit.

The trooper, in crash helmet and dark sunglasses, is listening

tight-lipped and stone-faced as Glen finishes his story and

slaps his knee.

The trooper is clicking open his ballpoint pen and reaching

his citation book from his breast pocket. The name tag on

the pocket says "SGT. KOWALSKI."

FLOATING IN TOWARD A FOOTBALL

It sits on a tee in the middle of a football field.

A cleated foot boots the football out of frame.

HIGH SCHOOL FOOTBALL PLAYER

Looking up, arms out at his sides, waiting to receive the

kicked ball.

He catches the ball and starts running.

He is skillfully eluding and stiff-arming tacklers.

He reaches the end zone and triumphantly spikes the football.

He whips off his helmet and we track in on the face of the

rosy-cheeked high-school bruiser.

BACK TO BEDROOM

Still craning down, now very close to the sleeping Hi.

A COUPLE

The man and woman are sitting on a sofa in the foreground

with their backs to the camera. They are in the living room

of Hi and Ed's trailer, which is suffused with a warm golden

light.

As they face the trailer's front door, all we see of the

couple is the backs of their heads. They both have white

hair, the woman's pulled into a bun. The old man wears a

cardigan, the woman a shawl.

The front door bursts open. Two young couples are entering

as their kids - about a dozen of them - stream in around

them.

The old couple on the couch raise their arms to embrace their

visitors. The children boil onto the couch.

FLOATING IN TOWARD A LONG DINING TABLE

In the trailer. The table is all laid out with a Thanksgiving

dinner, a huge turkey sitting at the far end.

Cut-out letters at the other end of the room say: "WELCOME

HOME KIDS!"

The grandchildren are running into frame and taking their

seats at the table, accompanied by their parents.

The elderly couple enter from either side of the camera and

stand in the foreground, backs to us, facing the table.

The elderly man drapes an arm around his wife's shoulder and

draws her close. She rests her head against his shoulder,

and we:

THE END

