Repo Man theme music now begins playing. Map is shown in background

(green text on black background), zoomed in on Los Alamos, New

Mexico. While remaining credits are shown, the map travels to

Sante Fe, then Albuquerque, then begins following US66 west through

Arizona to California, finally ending up a few miles east of

Goffs (northwest of Needles).

Green '64 Chevy Malibu

Malibu is weaving down the highway in the desert, passes billboard

with motorcycle cop behind it. Cop pulls out behind Malibu.

Motorcycle cop pulls the car over, gets off motorcycle and raps

on car window.

The motorcycle cop walks around to the back of the car and opens

the trunk. The car has New Mexico license plates KBB-283. In

every scene after this when the plates are visible, they will

be 127-GBH.

The motorcycle cop gets disintegrated, leaving behind a pair

of flaming boots (a reference to the movie Timerider, which was

co-written and produced by Mike Nesmith). Parnell watches from

side mirror, where we see that the left side of his sunglasses

have no lens.

Otto and Kevin, in the supermarket, facing cans of generic yellow

cling sliced peaches.

Otto puts price sticker on Kevin's glasses.

Kevin chuckles

Otto grabs Kevin by the front of his shirt, steps around him,

and pushes him into the stack of cans (this has been described

as a goof but it's clearly just a case of awkward staging used

to make the shot work).

Louie pulls his gun.

Louie shoves Kevin down aisle where Otto is walking out. Otto

takes off his clip-on bow tie and tosses it back towards Louie.

Louie twirls his gun and puts it away. Note that the store aisle

is lined with nothing but generic products, plain black lettering

on white background. All products in movie from now on will have

this appearance.

Punks slamdancing to Coup D'etat in the back of a warehouse.

Otto is there slamdancing and Duke walks up, the two of them

swing each other around. Behind them, the graffiti on the wall

says "Circle Jerks", a band which will appear later in the movie.

Otto enters bedroom where Debbi is waiting in bed.

Otto lays back on the bed and puts his hands behind his head.

Debbi pulls back his shirt a little and begins kissing his stomach,

then stops.

Otto goes downstairs and there's a party going on. Institutionalized

plays in background.

Otto returns to the bedroom

Otto turns on light and finds Duke there with Debbi.

Otto leaves room just as Kevin arrives and looks in the door.

[Otto in a vacant lot drinking a beer.

It's early morning and Otto starts walking.

Otto still walking, but it's light now.

Bud pulls up next to him in a blue sedan.

Otto gets in the car, a white 4 door Cutlass sedan.

Bud and Otto drive down freeway, Chevy Malibu swerves in front

of them. It is moving right across the lanes but has the left

blinker on.

Bud and Otto enter the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation

(Marlene talks on phone simultaneously with other conversations).

The Repo victim and his girl leave

The phone rings and Oly answers

Marlene is talking on the phone, but a continuous cut now shows

her holding a pencil in both hands.

Otto pours the beer on the floor.

Lite enters

Otto out in the yard with Miller

Back in the desert

We begin scene looking through the windshield of a police motorcycle.

The windshield of the police motorcycle naturally has a pine

tree air freshener hanging from it. We see some people searching

around in the desert, most of them in radiation suits, with a

local sheriff following a woman in a business suit.

Suspect presence on west coast confirmed

44% possibility Los Angeles

Locate immediately

Do not notify police

Otto and Kevin on a porch in the rain

Otto stands up and starts to walk away.

Otto gets off the Edge City #127 bus and comes home. Mom and

Dad are watching TV

Otto and Bud riding in Bud's car

Jazz music plays on the radio. In almost all scenes inside of

Bud's car, Jazz music will be playing on the radio.

In this sequence the background changes from day to night, back

to day, and back to night again (during the speed snorting scene)

even though the dialog seems continuous. I believe that this

was done intentionally to show the passage of time, but the disjointed

events are cut so smoothly as to make it seem like they goofed

the continuity. It's clearer in the TV version where there truly

is a break between the line about speed and the actual snorting.

Bud at payphone

Bud is talking on phone.

Bud picks up phone and dials. Phone begins making a loud whining

noise.

Bud gets sledgehammer from car and destroys phone while Otto

watches. When Bud is done, Otto gets crowbar from car and beats

side of phone with it while laughing.

Otto and Bud in car in alley

(In the television version, this entire scene takes place while

watching Bud's car drive down a road, but you can still hear

the snorting in the background.)

We see a group of people around a tow truck with a car being

hooked up to it.

Otto and Bud in a store

Bud sets 2 six packs of "drink" down on the counter.

Duke, Archie, and Debbi rise from behind counter as Otto and

Bud leave.

Parnell drives Malibu across bridge

Otto and Bud in front of house with tow truck

Man comes out of house with shaving cream on face.

Bud hands Pakman a business card.

Pakman begins walking toward house.

Pakman goes inside and Bud and Otto leave with the car as Pakman

comes running back out of the house.

Otto and Bud driving down a waterway

The Rodriguez brothers pull up along side of them in a red convertible

with black fuzzy dice hanging from the rear view mirror. Latino

music plays on the radio.

[Lagarto flips them off

They chase each other and end up sliding out in a huge puddle.

In one shot during the chase, Lagarto is missing from the passenger's

seat.

Duke, Archie and Debbi leaving a liquor store they just robbed

Archie has a bag over his head. Debbi accidentally fires gun

into the air.

They run out, Archie's bag flying off his head. Bud and Otto

enter just after they leave.

Quick shot of Rodriguez brothers in car lot signing papers on

a car. Although not made entirely clear in the movie, Lagarto

and Napoleon apparently will buy an inexpensive car and pay for

it in order to establish a good credit rating. Then they go out

and buy nice cars and never make payments on them.

Lite and Otto in Lite's car

Lite hands Otto a bag. Otto looks inside and laughs.

Otto takes dead rat from bag and tosses it into Ms. Magruder's

car

Ms. Magruder sprays Otto in the face with mace

Otto and Bud outside a Laundromat

Otto grabs the slimjim and gets out of the car

Peason Sees Otto driving off with the car.

Peason runs out door after car. Two kids grab Peason's clothes

and throw them out the door.

Otto driving the car, a red Cadillac

Car radio plays Pablo Picasso. Otto sees Leila running on the

sidewalk and slows down while watching her.

Otto runs into some garbage cans, stops and gets out just as

an old lady walks up.

Leila and Otto drive off in the car

Hombre Secreto plays on car radio.

Leila hides as a car with two men pulls up next to them

Leila shows Otto a picture of condoms, filled with water and

wearing grass skirts. We notice that she is wearing a yellow

happy face watch.

They pull up in front of a building

Otto lets Leila out

As Leila stands there, we notice she has a yellow happy face

pin on her dress.

Squeals are heard from the back seat of the car

Back at the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation

Otto and Lite out in the field

They slimjim the car and get in

Otto, going through Lite's briefcase, picks up gun.

Driving away in the car

Otto goes through glove compartment, puts on pair of sunglasses

he finds there (reference to the movie Kings of the Road with

cinematography by Robby Mueller). Lite puts a lighter to the

cigarette in his mouth, but fails to light it. A few moments

later he does it again and succeeds in getting it lit.

Lite puts cassette in player. Lite's Theme starts playing.

Otto sees boxes wrapped in ribbons in back seat and hands one

to Lite who throws it out window. A car runs over box and we

see that it is full of money. Otto continues throwing boxes out

of the window.

Otto and Miller in vacant lot under bridge

In Bud's car driving through a tunnel

Bud in phone booth outside the Rodriguez brothers' apartment.

Inside the Rodriguez brothers' place, Napoleon looking at repo

sheet on Malibu, which Marlene brought to them.

Bud in the street in front of the Rodriguez brother's house

Brothers make paper airplane of repo sheet and float it down

to Bud. Bud picks it up and reads it.

Agent Rogersz listening to Leila and Otto on the phone

Leila and Otto at the United Fruitcake Outlet

Leila takes Otto into a cinderblock room which has a neon sculpture

on the wall and in the center of the room, standing on a pedestal,

is a humorous statue of what could be a humanoid type alien.

Otto takes down his pants (according to the filmmakers, Estevez

enjoyed doing this on a regular basis. Maybe they were just joking?).

Leila slaps Otto

Bud and Lite parked in their cars side by side

Lite lights up a roach.

Bud and Otto in a car

Chevy Malibu exits car wash and pulls up to gas pumps.

That's director Alex Cox wiping the car as it pulls away from

the car wash and over to the pumps.

The pumps at the gas station say "Pace Gas". Next to the pump

is a campaign poster for Harry Pace, running for City Council.

These posters appear elsewhere in the film. In his posters, Harry

Pace has a happy face.

Kevin walks over to Malibu.

Parnell runs fingers through hair and pulls out a clump.

Parnell walks off screen and we hear puking sounds.

Lagarto and Napoleon pull up in a car one other side of pumps.

Latino music plays on their car radio.

Lagarto gets in the Malibu and both cars drive off. Kevin returns

from inside and sees both cars gone. Two other attendants sit

at a table and also look; the attendant on the right is director

Alex Cox.

Shot of car driving down freeway, passed by several motorcycles.

Otto and Mrs. Parks in Mrs. Parks' living room

Sound of motorcycles pulling up outside of house.

Mrs. Park's son and his fellow band members enter

Otto fumbles nervously with his briefcase trying to close it.

Otto walks outside and gets in car. From outside we hear Mrs.

Parks yelling at her son.

Otto starts car and guns engine, but now we clearly see that

the rear wheels are up on jacks (that it wasn't up on jacks before

has been listed as a goof and even confirmed by Alex Cox, but

I think they're wrong. It is hard to tell in the dark, but you

can see the base of one of the jacks lit up by a light from the

house which goes dark as a band member runs in front of it on

the other side of the car, thus confirming that the car actually

was up on jacks in all the scenes).

Band members run out of house and pull Otto out of car.

Otto gets beat up. One band member hits him twice over the head

with a guitar, making an audible "kabong" noise. Supposedly you

can hear one member saying "this one's for Keith Moon", but I've

never been able to make it out.

Miller, Plettschner and Otto in the lot.

Miller is chanting and dancing like a native American as he puts

a bandage on Otto's head.

Lite enters

Lagarto and Napoleon in the Malibu

They pull up in front of a diner.

Lagarto calls Marlene from phone booth. A sign in the window

of the diner behind him says "2.95 Plate O-Shrimp Luncheon Special".

Archie, Duke, and Debbie exit a window and go down a fire escape

[dropping armloads of pills as they go]. Behind them, a sign

says "Fox & Mac Taggert Pharmaceutical Company".

Lagarto on the phone with Marlene

Archie and Duke run by the Malibu. Debbie stops, whistles and

gets in the car. Archie and Duke jump in and they drive off to

the sound of a Latino version of The Ride of the Valkyries. Lagarto

walks out of the phone booth just as this is happening and drops

his clipboard in disgust. Napolean walks out of the store, silently

hands Lagarto a soda, and they both stand there and sip their

drinks through straws.

Otto and Lite in a car

The music from Bad Man is playing on the tape deck in Lite's

car.

Otto slimjims car and tries to start it. While bending down,

window shatters from gunshot.

Lite gets out and starts shooting back. He fires 9 times (one

or two of the shots doesn't flash like the others).

Lite and Otto in a field

Lite shoots the gun at Otto's feet. Otto drops his beer, getting

some on his pants.

Leila and J. Frank Parnell on pay phones

Leila on phone hears garbled sounds on receiver.

A car swerves into the phone booth, then crosses street and hits

a fire hydrant. The agents are trapped inside by the airbags.

More agents appear and chase Leila

In Agent Rogersz van

An agent types while eating potato chips. The camera pans across

the van to Agents Rogersz, who is watching a monitor which shows

Leila being questioned

Rogersz computer screen prints up the following information

A party at the Helping Hand yard

The repo men in the front of Mr. Humphries's house

They ring the bell and Mr. Humphries opens the door. In the background,

we can just barely see Kevin, who appears to be in his pajamas.

This is never explained in the movie.

Repo Men beat up Mr. Humphries.

At the Helping Hand Acceptance Corporation office

In a bar.

Duke, Archie, and Debbie enter the bar, checking their weapons

at the door. The Circle Jerks are on stage playing When the Shit

Hits the Fan.

Duke spills his bottle of generic Butyl Nitrate on the table.

Debbie and Archie yell and put their noses to the table to sniff

it all up.

Debbi, Archie and Duke leave to find J. Frank Parnell breaking

into the Malibu

Duke burns his hand on the trunk and wraps a handkerchief around

it.

Duke opens the trunk a little and a bright light is emitted.

Debbi pushes him away.

Archie opens the trunk and is disintegrated

Napoleon and Lagarto in a car pull up along side of J. Frank

Parnell driving the Malibu

The Helping Hand repo men in a car

Bud rams into the Rodriguez brothers' car while the Malibu drives

off with a noticable green glow coming from inside.

The Rodriguez brothers are forced into a parking garage and eventually

have to stop the car

Bud goes after them with a bat but the rest hold him back.

Back at the Helping Hand office .

Plettschner is sitting in a corner knitting. A television set

on Oly's desk is playing the video "Elephant Parts" with Mike

Nesmith. ov

Bud and Otto in Bud's car

Otto is driving the car.

Otto gets out and walks down street. Passes agents picking up

dead body.

Otto sees the Malibu and gives chase. Losing the car, he stops

on a bridge to puke. When done, he sees the Malibu emerge from

under the bridge. He runs down the stairs and after the Malibu

as it goes through a railroad crossing which has red lights blinking

and bell ringing. J. Frank Parnell stops and lets him in.

Otto coughs.

J. Frank Parnell passes out at the wheel and drives into the

sign at another railroad crossing. Otto dumps him and drives

off with the Malibu.

The helping hand crew at Miller's with their wives

Miller has a camera and the flash goes off as he accidentally

takes a picture of himself.

Bud and Otto in office

Bud breaks into the lot. Later, he picks up Otto

Duke and Debbie in car in front of a liquor store

Bud and Otto are at the counter. Duke and Debbi enter waving

guns.

Bud sneaks his gun out. Louie sees him from down an aisle.

Louie now sees the others with the guns. Bud waves his back and

forth. Debbi shoots Bud in the head.

Duke shoots Louie. Louie goes down but manages to shoot Duke,

but then is out of bullets. Duke walks over to Louie to finish

the job, but the counterman pulls out a shotgun and shoots Duke.

Debbie shoots the counterman. Now only Debbie and Otto are left

standing.

Duke pukes up some blood.

Agents photographing a dead J. Frank Parnell

One of these agents is Jimmy Buffet, who was working with Mike

Nesmith at the time the film was made.

Otto enters Parents living room

Parents are covered with cobwebs and watching TV.

Otto turns off TV and leaves.

Otto returns to the Helping Hand Yard and sees an argument going

on in the office

Inside the Helping hand office

Otto enters and Marlene uses the distraction to kick the shit

out of the agents.

Marlene drops chair.

Otto throws a pot of coffee into Plettschner's face. Marlene

steps through door. Otto steps outside and is immediately captured

by agents.

Agent Rogersz and Leila watch Otto on monitor

Otto his hit with electric shock and screams.

Another electric shock and screams. Then Marlene and the Rodiguez

brothers enter interrogation room and rescue Otto.

Brothers, Marlene, and Otto drive away.

Otto, Marlene and the Rodriguez brothers enter the hospital

Otto and Marlene enter elevator with 2 health professionals.

Lagarto turns away woman on crutches trying to get in.

Otto and Marlene exit elevator wearing clothes taken from health

professionals. Otto has a smiley face button on his right collar.

Otto pulls back sheet covering body on gurney and sees Kevin.

Cut back to ER waiting room where nurse is talking to patient

who has just filled out a form.

Otto and Marlene see a door with a pine tree air freshener hanging

from the knob. It's Bud's room. They go in.

Otto, Marlene and the Rodriguez brothers get chased by the agents

down the stairs.

Back in Bud's room

Otto, Marlene and Rodriguez brother drive off and the agents

chase them through the parking garage.

As they drive off and agents run after, the glowing Malibu drives

by and strikes down two of the agents with lightening bolts.

Agent Rogersz blocks the exit and they are all caught.

Everybody in Bud's hospital room

Bud is gone.

They escape the agents. Marlene and the brothers drive off as

Otto breaks into and steals a car.

Otto arrives at Helping Hands lot while it rains ice cubes.

Bud is sitting in the glowing Malibu.

