FADE IN:

Glistening city buildings reflect onto the WINDOW of an

upscale clothing boutique. In the window -- a MANNEQUIN is

wearing -- the best of everything. A PRETTY TWENTY-SOMETHING

girl looks in at the display: dreaming of the day.

Four TWENTY-SOMETHING WOMEN walk away from us -- arms linked

LAUGHING -- They make their way down the busy street --

shopping bags and designer purses swinging.

The young women reveal:

CARRIE BRADSHAW (41) and fabulous -- walking towards us. She

watches them as they pass, a SMILE grows on her face.

She walks along, her shopping bag -- swinging.

Carrie on step ladder, barefoot. Her finger moves along a

series of DESIGNER shoe boxes...

Summer night. Couples everywhere. Carrie walks along.

CARRIE and preppy perfect CHARLOTTE walk along, talking.

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie, Charlotte and MIRANDA walk along

talking.

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie, Charlotte, Miranda and SAMANTHA walk

along; LAUGHING -- their shopping bags and designer purses

swinging.

The front of Carrie's building.   She is typing in her window.

Carrie at her desk - typing. CLOSE ON the computer screen --

Written on it: "Charlotte, Miranda and Samantha..."

CLOSE ON: A colorful CHICK LIT book cover: "A Single Life" by

Carrie Bradshaw.

CARRIE -- standing on her bed placing it next to her TWO

other books: "Sex and The City" and "Menhattan"

A framed photo of four girls (circa 1999) is also on the

shelf.

She picks it up -- Touches it sweetly.

CARRIE in a sexy, summer dress, spots someone -- waves --

She hurries across the street to meet that SOMEONE...

MIRANDA (41) and BRADY (5) are filling an inflatable pool

with water from a hose. As STEVE approaches with Popsicles,

they squirt him with the hose. He grabs them; laughing.

Charlotte (40) and HARRY and their beautiful Asian daughter

LILY (3) go around. Lily giggles, they kvell.

The deck of fabulous Malibu beachouse. Samantha (49) sits

near the pool wearing a white bikini and huge white

sunglasses making deals on the phone as SMITH lays nearby in

a bathing suit -- reading a script.

Carrie walks over and into the arms of that SOMEONE -- it's

MR. BIG -- waiting for her in front of an apartment building.

They kiss. A good kiss.

A kiss worth waiting four years to see.

They turn and start into the classic apartment building. The

doorman tips his hat and opens the door.

Carrie and Big walk through the beautiful lobby and over to

the elevator... holding hands.

They push the elevator button. Doors open. They step on.

They laugh a little as the doors close on the elevator.

A door is opened up by CAROL (55) their real estate agent.

Carrie and Big look in. The apartment is dark, claustrophobic

-- awful. A male BUILDING AGENT (40) stands here. The smiles

leave Carrie and Big's faces.

Big looks over at her. She shrugs.

The Building Agent holds the elevator doors open for Carrie,

Big and Carol as they get on.

The Agent reaches over and presses the "PH" button on the

control panel. Carrie and Big react.

A gorgeous pre-war penthouse apartment. Empty except for the

beautiful light. Old-world New York City style. Elevator

doors open into the penthouse foyer. Carrie and Big step in.

She gives him a look. He swats her ass, gently as they go.

Carrie and Big lead the way into the bedroom. Big windows,

high ceilings. Beautiful light as well.

Big laughs, Carrie walks around taking it in.

Carrie opens the closet door. It is very small.

Carrie looks at him; aghast. He smiles.

Carrie screams with joy and shock. He laughs, thrilled.

Carrie, Miranda and Charlotte walk down the street.

Carrie and Charlotte laugh.

Miranda smiles. Carrie puts her arm around her.

Samantha is standing out in front of Christies. She waves to

them -- as she finishes a call.

She hangs up; as they reach her.

A lobby bustling with NEW YORK WOMEN. All types. Carrie,

Samantha, Charlotte and Miranda make their way through them.

The girls gently move past by an elderly YENTA, who reacts.

Miranda laughs. Everyone looks.

A DISTINGUISHED WOMAN AUCTIONEER is at a podium.

Samantha sits up, ready. An electric buzz moves through the

crowd.

Samantha raises her hand.

The Woman quickly raises her hand. Auctioneer nods.

A LAUGH ripples through the room. Samantha glares at the

rival woman, almost daring her. Carrie looks afraid.

The Woman raises her hand. Samantha reacts disappointed. The

Auctioneer looks at Samantha.

Samantha shakes her head no. Carrie rubs her arm.

Carrie, Samantha, Miranda and Charlotte are primping in front

of the mirror.

A BABY VOICED WOMAN (45) next to Charlotte overhears.

They look over at her.

Carrie catches Miranda's eye in the mirror, looks away.

Big takes a bright red lobster out of a pot of hot water with

tongs. He places it next to another cooked lobster. He walks

to the cooking island where Carrie sits; sipping wine.

Crowded; serious lunch crowd. Carrie sits across from

Charlotte and Miranda. Miranda is in a work suit.

Charlotte's eyes are getting wider and wider.

Charlottes SCREAMS at the top of her lungs. Carrie and

Miranda and the ENTIRE RESTAURANT REACT.

Charlotte looks around at the DISGRUNTLED FACES. She half-

stands and address the DINERS looking at her.

The DINERS bursts into APPLAUSE. Carrie slumps in her chair,

pulls up her sweater collar, turns to Miranda.

A large PHOTO of Smith. Samantha walks past it and up a

sleek, modern office building stairway. Her cell rings.

Intercut with Carrie walking through the upscale boutique

talking on her pink Swarovski crystal-covered cell phone.

Samantha reaches the top of the stairs. Blow-ups of Smith on

various magazine covers line the walls of the chic, small

office space.

A RECEPTIONIST (23) hands her some messages.

Samantha hangs up. Carrie looks at her phone: dismissed and

disappointed. She closes it and walks on.

Carrie rounds a corner. Her phone rings.

Intercut with Samantha standing in her office.

Carrie laughs. Samantha shrugs.

Carrie and Charlotte sit on her bed looking through a list of

names. ANTHONY sits at her makeup vanity. He has a large

notebook open in front of him.

Carrie looks at the list.

Carrie crosses someone off. Charlotte reacts, shocked.

She turns and heads back into the closet.

Anthony turns to Charlotte and says in a low voice.

A "family style" Italian restaurant. Miranda, in business

clothes, sits with Steve, Brady and MAGDA. Brady's face is

covered in spaghetti sauce.

Brady nods. Magda walks away with Brady. Miranda is packing

up Brady's action figures. Steve gives her a look.

Silence. She sips her cappuccino. Foam covers her top lip. He

looks over at her and smiles.

She licks it off, not pleased.

Silence. He reaches down and picks up her coffee cup and

sips... putting lots of foam on his lip. He looks over.

She shakes her head: No. He puts his face in front of hers.

She laughs. He licks his lip.

Steve is in bed with Miranda, they are making love. She is

wearing a T-shirt.

Steve looks at her. She can't believe what she's said.

Miranda can't remember. He moves to his side of the bed.

He gets out of the bed and walks away. She watches him go.

The girls are having breakfast. Lily sits at the table in a

booster seat coloring in a Cinderella coloring book. Carrie

is helping her. CLOSE ON: Cinderella's shoe. Carrie is

filling it in with a BLUE CRAYON.

She indicates that Lily is sitting with Carrie. Carrie

continues to color, not looking up.

She smiles. He kisses her on the forehead. Sincere.

He laughs, she looks at her book, turns a page and reads.

After a beat, he puts down his paper.

She looks up at him, excited. He speaks romantically.

Big continues --   now SINGING the Minnie Ripperton classic.

Carrie LAUGHS as he continues to massacre the high notes.

Carrie runs past the stone lions and up the grand stairs

holding three LIBRARY BOOKS in her hand.

Carrie stands at the entrance while a FEMALE GUARD (60)

checks the contents of her purse. A FLORAL DELIVERY MAN comes

in carrying a GORGEOUS ARRANGEMENT OF WHITE FLOWERS. He calls

to the Guard.

The Guard points, bored. Carrie looks, interested.

A beautiful space. The tables are being set up as MORE

FLOWERS arrive. Carrie tip-toes in and looks around. A SMILE

grows on her face.

Carrie and Big sit at the bar -- having dinner.

Carrie winces -- stung. After a beat, she goes on.

A bucket of cold water.

Big looks over at her. She looks upset, hurt, sad. Silence.

Charlotte, Harry and Lily are having breakfast. A KING

CHARLES SPANIEL and TWO MUTTS sit on the floor looking up at

them. Charlotte pages through the New York Post -- She

notices something. CLOSE ON: NEWSPAPER; A small PHOTO: of

Carrie on "PAGE SIX" above a mention of the wedding.

Charlotte SCREAMS. Harry and Lily JUMP. She grabs the

cordless phone from the table.

Intercut with Carrie on the phone as Big sips coffee.

Carrie shrugs, Charlotte continues reading.

Carrie is walking down the street with STANFORD.

Carrie and Stanford are mid-meal. Three GAY MALE friends (3O-

40) stand at their table and gush.

A WAITRESS (23) places a check on the table.    Stanford looks

at it, then leans in to waitress.

Carrie and Stanford are walking by a nail salon as BITSY VON

MUFFLING, socialite, comes running out -- Mid-pedicure. She

is barefoot with foam pads stuck between her painted toes.

Carrie and Stanford stop -- turn around.    Bitsy gushes.

She hurries away, turning back to CALL as she goes.

She waves, goes back inside.   Carrie looks stunned.

Big leads Carrie into their new bedroom by the hand. Her eyes

are closed and she has a DESIGNER shopping bag slung over her

one arm. He moves her around the construction debris,

stopping in front of the new closet's double doors.

Carrie opens her eyes.

She opens the closet doors, revealing a beautiful oversized,

walk-in closet with shelves and more shelves and places for

shoes and more shoes.

He smiles, proud. She takes the DESIGNER shoe box out of her

shopping bag and hands it to him. She opens the lid, takes

out a pair of COLORFUL/FUN HEELS and places them on the

shelf. She turns back to him.

Miranda, Charlotte and Carrie are standing in Carrie's

apartment. Empty boxes are everywhere. Lily is coloring

quietly nearby.

The door buzzes. Carrie pushes the intercom button.

Carrie starts into the bathroom. Charlotte calls:

There is a knock on the door. Miranda opens it. Samantha

stands there with her carry-on luggage.

Carrie re-enters from the bathroom... stunned.

She reaches into her bag and pulls out a bottle of champagne.

They all CHEER. She reaches in again and pulls out another

bottle. More cheering.

Samantha is packing Carrie's collection of CD's, tapes and

albums. She puts on a "Best of the 80's" CD.

MUSIC START: Run DMC & Aerosmith: "WALK THIS WAY."

Carrie comes   out of her closet wearing an outfit that screams

"80's." Lily   looks up from her coloring. Miranda, Charlotte

and Samantha   sit on the bed drinking champagne. Carrie poses.

They hold up   hand-written signs: "Take" or "Toss."

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie comes out of the closet wearing another

"80's" outfit. The girls vote: "Take, Take, Toss." Carrie

nods.

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie comes out of the closet wearing a tight

pink top and a tutu. The girls LAUGH; then all hold up:

"Toss." Carrie reacts.

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie comes out wearing a late "90's" outfit.

The girls vote: "Take, Take, Take." Carrie is thrilled - she

keeps it.

JUMP CUT TO: Miranda wearing something from Carrie's closet.

JUMP CUT TO: Charlotte wearing something from Carrie's

closet.

JUMP CUT TO: Samantha wearing something from Carrie's closet.

JUMP CUT TO: Carrie, Miranda, Charlotte and Samantha LAUGHING

-- at something. REVEAL: Lily standing in the closet, naked

except for her training underpants. Her arms are outstretched

and draped with Carrie's small purses and bags.

The girls in the apartment are surrounded by many, boxes.

Carrie walks through her now, empty apartment. She takes one

last long look and leaves. END MUSIC.

Steve sits in a chair as Miranda hands a cup of tea to his

mother MARY. She looks up at Miranda, lost.

Miranda nods and smiles. Steve watches, touched.

Miranda is putting away groceries. Steve is sitting at the

kitchen table.

She looks over at him. He looks strange.

He starts crying.

Miranda can't believe her ears.

Miranda just sits -- looking at him.

Miranda shakes her head, turns and walks out of the kitchen.

He gets up and follows her.

She stops and turns around. He stops.

She starts down the hall again. He's on her heels.

She starts up the stairs. He stops at the bottom and watches

her go. Lost as to what to do next.

Carrie opens the door. Miranda stands there with Brady. She

looks like she is about to burst into tears. Big stands in

the hall behind Carrie. Unsure.

Brady nods. Miranda gives Brady's hand to Carrie.

Miranda hurries away. Carrie looks after her, concerned.

He nods. Carrie give his hand to Big and hurries away. Big

looks at Brady. Brady looks up at him.

They walk into the kitchen.

Miranda is sitting on the toilet, seat down. Carrie at the

sink.

Miranda looks furious. Carrie nods, in shock.

Steve is in bed. Miranda comes in, dressed for bed.

He throws back the covers. She looks at him.

She stands there and looks at him. Shakes her head, exits.

Miranda walks into the chic hotel lobby holding Brady's hand.

She pulls a piece of luggage behind her.

Brady sits   on a couch in the lobby playing with his action

figures. A   HOODED MOVIE ACTOR TYPE (25) sits slumped next him

texting on   a phone. Carrie, Miranda, Charlotte and Samantha

are having   brunch at a table nearby.

Charlotte passes the salt.

Samantha nods, taking it in.

Brady walks over holding an action figure.

Miranda nods; keeping a brave face. Charlotte looks upset.

Charlotte and Harry are making love, gently. She looks into

his eyes -- speaks softly.

The room is crowded with Carrie's boxes waiting to be moved.

Big is sitting at a computer reading his emails.

He sort of "helps her" out of his lap.

Carrie looks at him, stunned by this new information.

Tension. He starts out of the room, moving a wardrobe box out

of his way as he goes. She stands there. Upset.

Big is brushing his teeth. There's a knock. The door opens.

Carrie comes in, vulnerable.

The room LAUGHS. Big smiles; tight. Carrie leans in.

Big is touched. Then Karl feels the need to add:

Big smiles, he has no choice. He raises his glass.

Samantha is out front with Big, Harry and Smith. They are

smoking cigars.

They chuckle, then -- Samantha's smile fades.

The men turn as Steve approaches. He has a look of real pain

and guilt and embarrassment on his face.

Samantha is trapped... trapped and touched.

Miranda comes out of the ladies room. Samantha spots her.

The blood drains from Miranda's face. Samantha nods.

Steve is standing with Smith, Big and Harry as Miranda comes

out of the restaurant -- Samantha looks out from inside.

The guys go inside. Samantha gives Miranda a look and leads

them away. Miranda turns. She glares at Steve.

Three YOUNG SINGLE GIRLS (25) walk past them into the club.

They look back at the scene. Miranda looks down at the

ground. Steve is paralyzed. Miranda turns to leave -- looks

back at him with daggers and hurt.

Miranda goes inside. Steve is a stone.

Miranda makes her way through the crowded bar. She looks very

rattled. Big spots her and follows, gently.

Miranda walks away, upset. He stands there; shaken.

Big is at the bar having a scotch. Carrie hurries over to

him. She leans in and puts her arm on his back.

She smiles, kisses him. He smiles, sips his scotch.

He sips his scotch. She looks at him, sees a glimmer of

something. Something that scares her.

He looks over -- sees her face. Scared.

Carrie reaches up and fixes Big's hair.

He looks at her as if to say something, then kisses her.

Carrie sits on the bed surrounded by Charlotte, Samantha, and

Miranda all wearing matching robes. Laying on the floor near

the bed -- three open gift boxes and ribbons. Lily sits in

Carrie's lap playing with Carrie's cell phone -- in her PJ's.

Big is sitting at the desk, a piece of paper on it.

Carrie puts her hand to her ear, blocking the laughter.

Carrie gets out of bed; playing it "casual" to the girls.

She points to the study. Charlotte calls to the phone.

Carrie goes into the study and closes the door.

Carrie leans against the door, her face now concerned.

Silence. Deep silence.

He hangs up. She looks terrified.

Dark. Charlotte and Carrie are sharing the bed. Carrie is

wide awake. Here eyes focused across the room on her gorgeous

wedding gown: ready and waiting.

Miranda is standing in the hall putting on her earrings. The

bedroom door opens -- Carrie stands there in the wedding

gown. Carrie and Miranda catch eyes for a brief moment. There

are no words.

Lily steps around from behind Carrie. She is wearing a long

white dress and holding a LITTLE PURSE. She looks adorable.

Charlotte takes Lily's hand as Anthony comes out of the

dining room and spots Carrie for the first time.

A flurry of activity -- attaching the veil on Carrie.

Stanford stands near Carrie ready to assist if needed.

Carrie turns to move to the mirror. She is JERKED BACK.

Carrie's CELL PHONE RINGS. Anthony reaches over and picks it

up, distracted by the dress situation.

Intercut with Big... pacing. He doesn't look rested.

Anthony hangs up, tosses her phone onto the dining table.

As the girls start out -- Anthony addresses Stanford.

Carrie's cell RINGS AGAIN. Lily picks it up, opens it and

holds it up to her face -- She says nothing.

Big is standing there. He hears only Lily breathing.

Lily closes the cell phone. Big reacts, puzzled. She opens

her little purse, drops the phone in and walks out.

Carries and company leave the building, JADED NEW YORKERS

passing by react with awe at the beautiful sight.

CHARLOTTE leads Lily over to HARRY who is waiting by the

Sedan. He makes a fuss over how cute she looks.

Big's driver RAOUL (55) is waiting out front next to his car,

smoking. Big leaves his building talking on his phone.

He closes phone. Raoul opens the back door.

WEDDING GUESTS arrive. Bitsy comes up to Stanford. A DRIVER

follows her carrying a LARGE box from TIFFANY.

Stanford gives a look of concern. Anthony nods.

Big's car is parked in front of the library. Raoul is leaning

against it looking at his watch.

Big is on the phone, smoking one of Raoul's cigarettes.

He takes a drag on the cigarette. Exhales.

Raoul KNOCKS on the window. Big looks out. The girls are in

the process of climbing out of the limo. Big closes the phone

and looks. Carrie gets out of the limo, her back to him.

Just as he's about to see her face -- Charlotte pulls the

veil over it. Carrie is gone -- all Big can see is a bride.

He sinks back into his seat and away from the window as the

girls hurry up the library stairs.

Anthony and Stanford are waiting, as are Harry with Lily and

Magda with Brady, who is wearing a little tux with shorts and

knee socks holding a ring pillow.

A FLURRY OF HIGH HEELS CLICKING on a marble floor is heard as

Carrie and the girls arrive around a corner. Magda GASPS,

overjoyed when she sees Carrie in her dress.

Miranda kneels to hug Brady. Samantha fluffs Carrie.

Samantha looks over. Anthony has a weird look on his face.

Carrie lifts up her veil with ONE arm and looks out from

under it. She is on super high-alert.

Samantha hands her the iPhone. Carrie looks at it.

Stanford hands her a phone. As she dials she catches a

WORRIED LOOK on Charlotte's face. Carrie turns away and holds

the phone to her ear, waits. Waits. Then --

Big is sitting in the car as it MOVES down a side street.

Carrie drops the phone from her ear -- She's heard the words.

The words on some level she was expecting.

The phone slips out of her hand and lands on the floor.

Charlotte, Miranda, and Samantha don't know what to do.

She gestures to the wedding area. Miranda and Charlotte take

Carrie's arms and quickly start moving her away. Horror on

all of their faces. Brady CALLS after them, his voice ECHOES

off the marble.

Samantha looks at Stanford and Anthony -- speechless.

The LIMO DRIVER slams the limo door. Carrie is seen through

the window, sitting in back -- stunned. Miranda and Charlotte

are in the back next to her -- stunned.

Big sits, pale, staring off as the car drives away.

Big's car makes a QUICK three-point turn and starts back up

the one-way street as Carrie's limo turns onto it.

Raoul sees the limo -- coming.

Big's car pulls over, as the limo approaches. Big powers down

his window -- as the limo passes, he sees Carrie in the

window --resting her head against the glass, listless.

Carrie looks up, and see's Big. He smiles an apologetically

smile. Her limo keeps on moving. Big watches it go. Until...

The limo SCREECHES to a halt. The back door flies open and

Carrie almost leaps out. Big sees her, he looks relieved.

Carrie sits in a chair. She is holding a glass and has an

Hermes blanket wrapped around her.

Miranda is standing in the hall as Charlotte enters from

Lily's room.

Charlotte looks at her.

Charlotte nods trying to understand.

Samantha comes down the hall. She is energized.

Charlotte and Miranda react; completely thrown.

Samantha indicates Carrie -- sitting in the den staring off

to nowhere, deeply sad -- Devastated.

A lush tropical road with a view of the sun setting on the

ocean. A large open air GOLF CART comes around the bend

holding the girls. Carrie's hair blows in the breeze, her

sunglasses firmly in place.

A gorgeous romantic private house surrounded by tropical

splendor. The cart arrives in front. The DOORS are open and

PAULO (38) the BUTLER stands there holding a tray with two

beautiful tropical drinks. He is surprised when he sees the

four women, but he covers, effortlessly.

Carrie gets out of the cart and goes into the house --

followed by Charlotte and Miranda. Samantha arrives and picks

up a drink off the tray.

She sips the drink, then looks at him, "familiar."

Charlotte and Miranda stand looking at the gorgeous, romantic

private Mexican bungalow. Samantha enters; looks.

Carrie stands looking in the mirror. She takes off her

sunglasses. Her eyes are red, red, red. She splashes water on

her face and looks at herself in the beautiful Mexican

mirror.

Paulo leads Miranda, Charlotte, and Samantha into the

romantic bedroom suite. On the bed -- rose petals are

scattered in the shape of a large heart.

Miranda and Charlotte quickly grab the bed cover and jerk it

up -- throwing all the rose petals off. Paulo watches.

Miranda addresses him in a very intense WHISPER.

Carrie exits the powder room, her sunglasses in her hand. She

stands in the entry way; alone. She looks out at the main

room; the beautiful view, the romance. Her eyes start to

water. A PORTER enters with the bags. Carrie hides her face,

acknowledging him with a nod.

