INT. CONFERENCE ROOM

A dozen or so shadowy people are seated in the darkened room.

A slide projector dimly lights MR. FULLER, a crew-cutted

Robert Stack type in a suit, as he addresses the group. The

current slide is a still from a security video of a blurry

figure - it could be any of about a billion people.

Fuller advances to a slide of the American flag. Close on

one of the group - a heavyset bald man in his mid-thirties.

He politely pays close attention to the presentation.

Close on another face in the group. A doughy man with three-

day scruff and a trendily long haircut. He looks bored,

rolling his eyes at the speech.

The lights come up and as the group files out we get a better

look at their uniforms. The TSA agents move out into the...

INT. AIRPORT - SECURITY CHECK POINT - DAY

The agents take their places, manning the screening

equipment. We push in on the bald man as he takes up his

post next to the walk-through metal detector. This is KIRK

KETTNER. He is not a looker. His uniform only serves to

highlight his least attractive features but his eyes and

demeanor are pleasant and kind.

The scruffy agent is STAINER. He stands at the x-ray

monitor. As the bags begin to move through, he does not pay

any attention, rather he hands Kirk a flyer.

INSERT: The flyer reads, "Wheel in the Sky - a Tribute to

Journey at Club Vertigo - Every Tuesday Night!" Stainer is

pictured wearing a massive afro in the band photo.

Stainer does a sex dance that makes everyone uncomfortable.

Fuller shoots a stern look from his office.

A Middle-Eastern man in a cowboy hat is next in line. Mr.

Fuller appears behind Kirk, taps his shoulder and subtly

motions to the Arab. Kirk smiles at the potential terrorist.

Kirk opens Habib's bag.

Kirk gestures to his boss as he zips the bag back up.

Fuller again appears behind Kirk.

EXT. AIRPORT CURB - DAY

Follow a pair of perfect female legs as the woman's heels

click along the sidewalk, suitcase rolling behind. Although

we can't see the woman riding on these legs, we can see

several men stare as she passes by on her way into...

INT. AIRPORT TICKETING

More stares from more men and even a few women as we follow

the legs to the check-in line. The legs glide to the front

and stop to wait for the next available ticket agent.

From the slightly upward angle, we see two young male ticket

agents. (One on each side of the legs.) One is black and one

white; each are dealing with customers. They simultaneously

notice our woman. They suspiciously eye one another and the

race is on. Each agent begins typing furiously to expedite

their current customer in the hope of waiting on her next.

Angle on the WHITE AGENT as he waits on a yuppie couple.

The agent leans back and issues a bothered sigh. He looks to

his right to check the progress of the BLACK AGENT, who is

waiting on an old Asian woman.

The Asian woman obviously did not understand a word of the

question but she smiles and nods along.

More smiles and blank nods.

The Asian woman is not going anywhere. The black agent leans

into her face and barks once like a dog. Her smile turns to

fear as she backs away, ending the race in a dead tie.

Reverse to show the woman they were competing for. She is a

classy, sophisticated, blonde around thirty. Drop dead

beautiful. She is startled by the sudden call from both men.

She laughs off her little scare and then randomly chooses the

black agent. He shoots a smug victory grin over to his co-

worker, who is being an overtly sore loser.

The white agent moves to loiter around the black agent's

station, just to get a better look at MOLLY.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Kirk is at his post.

Stainer works the next x-ray belt, where a young rocker type

is running a guitar case through. Stainer stops the belt and

moves it back to get a better look.

The rocker boy looks at his watch as Stainer rolls the case

through and pops it open.

Stainer takes the guitar out and starts riffing on it as the

bins and bags pile up before him.

At Kirk's station, Molly (the blonde bombshell) is crossing

through. Every guy who can see her has been struck dumb but

Kirk banters with her like he would anyone else. No flirting

or stammering - just friendly and relaxed.

Molly is putting her laptop back in her bag.

Molly's long legs carry her toward the gates as every man

except Kirk watches. Fuller saunters up and nudges Kirk.

Back at Stainer's station. As he puts the guitar back in its

case, he scratches it on the corner of the x-ray machine.

Stainer and rocker boy lock in shocked gazes.

He grabs his guitar and inspects a wicked scratch.

Stainer points to a white sign mounted in an acrylic stand.

Stainer flips the sign around to reveal a few more words hand-

written on the back. He reads them aloud.

INT. HOSPITAL WAITING ROOM - NIGHT

Kirk enters to find his MOTHER, an attractive old woman,

sitting with a short, plain woman about Kirk's age.

Across the room, Kirk's father is speaking to a man who looks

a bit like Kirk. The man is telling a funny story that

cracks up MR. KETTNER. The two pretend to box for a moment.

MARNIE (the plain woman) stands and takes Kirk aside.

She leads Kirk over to the man who is speaking with his

father. They are laughing again.

Kirk's brother ERIC and his fiance DEBBIE enter from the

hall. They are both in their late thirties and good-looking

for trailer trash. Debbie is about seven months pregnant.

Eric and Debbie walk with Kirk down the hall.

INT. HOSPITAL - GRAMMY'S ROOM

In a dimly lit hospital room, a very old woman lies in a bed.

She is hooked up to an I.V. and several monitors. Kirk comes

in and forces a smile. Grammy's voice is weak and shaky.

Kirk sits and reluctantly hands her a pack of cigarettes.

Grammy lights up a smoke and savors a long drag. Kirk tears

up at how slightly his grandmother clings to life.

Kirk hugs her and he cries a bit.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Molly is coming through Kirk's lane again. Mr. Fuller steps

in and stops her before she crosses through.

She does. Fuller is leering at her stellar body.   She's

about to go through when he stops her again.

Molly takes an exasperated breath as she removes her belt.

She starts to move through but again Fuller stops her with a

raised palm. He then motions to her breasts and crotch.

Molly steps through. The machine does not go off. She

gathers her things and mouths a silent, "Thank You" to Kirk

as she walks on. Fuller glares at Kirk but before he can say

anything, RANDY, a young agent, calls out from the office.

Kirk walks over to take the call.

Kirk takes the phone from Randy.

Kirk's expression tells us that some sad news is coming in.

INT. AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Kirk sits at a table with a cup of coffee. He opens his

wallet and flips to a photo of a much younger Grammy and an

eight-year-old Kirk in a casino. Grammy is smoking a

cigarette and dealing blackjack while Kirk sits at the table.

Kirk tears up and puts his face in his hands.

Molly is passing.   She sees Kirk and stops.

Molly sits down and puts her hand on his hand.

Kirk tears up again and so does Molly.

Kirk tries to keep it together.   Molly looks at the photo.

They share a sad laugh.

Molly removes a small clear-plastic booklet of photos from

her bag and shows a picture of her grandmother.

They share a laugh and Kirk is cheering up a bit.   An

announcement comes over the PA.

Molly stands and offers her hand to Kirk.

Molly squeezes Kirk's hand, grabs her bags and trots off

toward her gate. A businessman near Kirk's table reaches

over and gives him a playful chuck on the shoulder.

INT. AIRPORT GATE

Molly arrives at the gate just in time to make her flight.

INT. AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP

Kirk gathers his things and notices that Molly left her

pictures on the table. He looks through them. In the last

pouch are some business cards that read, "Molly McCall -

Event Planner." Her cell number is on the card.

INT. AIRPLANE 737

Molly is sitting in a window seat. The flight is mostly

empty. The two other seats in her row are unoccupied until a

CREEPY BUSINESSMAN moves from the row behind her to the seat

next to Molly. He casually smiles as though there is nothing

odd about taking the center seat while the aisle seat (and

many full rows) are open. Molly looks at the vacant seats

and then at him as if to say, "You've got to be kidding."

Molly's phone rings and she fumbles to answer it.   A FEMALE

PASSENGER sitting two rows back looks annoyed.

INTERCUT: AIRPLANE / AIRPORT COFFEE SHOP

The female passenger hails the flight attendant.

The creepy businessman gives the woman the finger and then

looks to Molly for approval. He doesn't get it.

Molly turns off her phone and holds it up for the flight

attendant to see.

INT. VERTIGO CLUB - NIGHT

Kirk comes in and stops at the bar to order a beer. Two men

are waving to him from a table near the stage. Kirk gets his

bottle and snakes through the crowd toward his friends.

On stage, Stainer (in his afro wig) plays guitar as his band

finishes the last chorus of "Lovin', Touchin' Squeezin'."

The band turns to put down their instruments and the house

music kicks in.

Kirk arrives where his friends are standing at a high bar

table. DEVON looks like Howdy Doody at 33. JACK is good-

looking and dressed semi-hipster. Devon gives Kirk a hug.

Jack hugs Kirk as well.

Stainer arrives, hugs Kirk and gives him a kiss on the head.

Kirk laughs and Stainer raises his glass.

The guys all raise their glasses and take a drink.     This is

just what Grammy wanted and it's cheering Kirk up.

Kirk's cell phone rings.      He has to talk loud over the music.

Kirk hangs up.

Marnie is standing behind Stainer.     He doesn't miss a beat.

The guys slink away to give Kirk and Marnie some privacy.

Kirk considers this.   It will be weird.

Stainer overhears this and groans out loud.

Marnie hugs Kirk.   This makes him uncomfortable.

Marnie hugs him again and then departs.

Across the room they see Marnie return to Ron with a hug.

Kirk waves to someone at the door.   The guys look up.

The guys' POV: Molly is stepping toward them - dressed in a

beautiful gown. They laugh the way you might laugh at a

particularly brutal football tackle.

Molly arrives at their table.

Molly hugs Kirk.    From across the bar, Marnie takes notice.

The guys' I.Q.s drop like stones as they shake her hand.

Kirk hands Molly the pictures.

Molly waves goodbye and heads for the door. Kirk starts to

follow but Stainer pulls him back for a quick huddle.

Kirk catches up with Molly.   Marnie watches them exit.

A big guy has overheard this and leans over to Stainer.

Big Guy assesses the crazy on Stainer's face and stands down.

INT. BURGER JOINT - NIGHT

Kirk and Molly sit across from one another in a booth.    The

WAITER arrives.

The waiter exits.

Close on Molly's smile. She finds Kirk's unabashed admission

very refreshing and endearing.

Molly laughs. An older GOOD-LOOKING MAN steps up to the

table and stands facing her with his back to Kirk.

He turns to Kirk and both men start to laugh.

The man gives Kirk a wink and wanders back to the bar.

Molly laughs and we hard cut through the following snippets

of conversation as they eat, chat and laugh.

Cut.   The food is being served.

Cut.   The waitress is picking up the empty plates.

Cut.   Molly is laughing while she's paying the bill.

Kirk is a bit taken aback and confused.     Is she actually

asking him out on a real date?

She digs two tickets out of her purse and hands them over.

Kirk's expression is as much relief as disappointment.

EXT. HOCKEY ARENA - NIGHT

Kirk and Stainer are on their way through security. A huge

security guard runs a metal-detector wand over Stainer.

INT. HOCKEY ARENA

Kirk and Stainer arrive at the third row to find two open

seats right next to the penalty box. To Kirk's surprise, in

the next seat - Molly! Kirk elbows Stainer.

Patty is over 200 pounds with a pretty face and an edge that

comes from a lifetime of taking crap from morons.

INT. HOCKEY ARENA CONCESSIONS AREA

Stainer and Kirk stand in the beer line.

Kirk returns a look of annoyance.

INT. HOCKEY ARENA

The game has started. Kirk, Stainer, Molly and Patty are

cheering. The puck smacks the glass before them and another

player skates up for it. As he mucks it from the edge, he

looks up and sees Molly. He's distracted just long enough to

get brutally checked face first into the glass. A penalty is

called on the player who hit him. That player skates into

the penalty box near Molly. The name on his jersey reads,

"REESE." He speaks with a thick Canadian accent.

INT. BROADCAST BOOTH

The radio announcers are calling the game.

INT. HOCKEY ARENA

The penalty ends and the ref opens the box but Reese is not

paying attention.

The crowd is booing Reese.

Reese raises his squirt bottle over the glass and squirts

Stainer.

Stainer is immediately on his feet, climbing the glass and

trying to pummel the huge player. Security is on him in a

flash and dragging him, kicking & swearing, out of the arena.

Reese wakes up and skates out of the box but it's too late.

The Sharks score and the crowd revolts. A red-haired redneck

woman, sitting two rows back, calls out to Molly and company.

Molly exits and Patty sits back down next to Kirk.

What? How is that even possible?

She's so...

Tell me about it. I'm no lezbo but

sometimes she makes me want to

strap on - if know what I'm saying.

Yeah.   I think I do.

It's a curse, looking like that.

Who has the balls to hit on her?

Just the most arrogant A-holes like

Reese out there.

Yeah, I suppose.

Listen, Molly brought me along

tonight because, you know, she

thought I might be 'interested.'

Oh.   Oh yeah?

But, just for honesty's sake, I'm

not interested. No offense.

No! Hey! None taken. I don't

blame you. I know I'm no Brad

Pitt. That's cool.

What? You? No, I'm talking about

your pal, Stainer. I know he's your

friend but he seems like kind of a

dumbshit. (THEN) Wait. Why would

you think I was talking about you?

I'm sorry.     I didn't mean to assume

anything.

Oh my God. You don't have a clue

do you? Molly's really into you.

Kirk laughs hard until he realizes that Patty isn't laughing.

Patty's nod says, "I'm serious."

Close on Kirk's terrified expression.   The SOUND of a bowling

ball demolishing ten pins...

INT. BOWLING ALLEY - NIGHT

The place is crowded and classic rock is cranking. It's an

old alley with overhead-projection score sheets. Kirk,

Stainer and Devon sit and talk while Jack throws a strike.

Stainer picks up a crappy, beat up ball from the ball return.

Stainer goes to the line. The BOWLER (a pro-type with a

custom ball and glove) on the next lane is already standing

about to roll. Stainer starts to step up.

The bowler stands glaring back.

The bowler takes another minute to set. Stainer lets out a

long sigh. The bowler steps to the line and Stainer rushes

into his own delivery. Both men throw gutters. The bowler

comes at Stainer but their friends separate them.

The bowler's friends drag him away. Stainer takes a deep

breath before he shifts right back into conversation mode.

Stainer moves the score sheet and then writes a three on the

glass. It projects onto the overhead scoreboard.

Stainer continues the equation on the projector.

Stainer finishes the equation by writing, "Kirk = Fucked."

Kirk's phone rings. He checks the ID and his eyes go wide.

Kirk hangs up and gapes at his friends, who wait in suspense.

Kirk exchanges fives, fists, tips and hugs with Devon and

Jack. Stainer shakes his head, still not buying it.

INT. BOWLING ALLEY MEN'S ROOM

Kirk runs into the otherwise empty restroom. He stares into

the mirror and his smile fades into panic. He splashes water

on his face. He reaches for a paper towel but the dispenser

is empty.

EXT. AIRPORT PARKING LOT - DAY

Kirk's Taurus pulls into a space. He climbs out and slams

the door. As it closes, he reaches but too late. He looks

through the window. The keys are hanging in the ignition.

INT. AIRPORT SHUTTLE BUS

WILLY, the Russian driver, is chipper and bubbly as he sings

along with "I'm Like a Bird" on the radio. Kirk is knocked

around by Willy's crazy driving. In the mirror, Willy

notices Kirk's dazed expression.

Willy takes a hard left and some suitcases fall on Kirk.

INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT - DAY

Kirk is picking up a coffee. As he walks on, he takes a sip.

The lid comes off and hot coffee spills on his shirt.

Stainer is now next to Kirk, who glares back at him as they

walk across the food court.

A short, plain girl behind the Orange Julius counter gives

them an apprehensive wave.

Stainer returns an uncomfortable smile but then redirects

their path away from her. Kirk waves.

Kirk is no longer responding.

Kirk walks away.

EXT. OLD STRIP MALL - DAY

Kirk, still in his TSA uniform, walks past a large laundromat

to a small storefront next door. The chipped and faded

lettering on the glass reads, "Maury Hammerstein, Attorney At

Law - Aggressive, Dynamic Representation Since 1942!" As

Kirk reaches for the door, he notices a small hand-written

sign, "I don't make change!" He goes inside.

INT. LAW OFFICE

Wood paneling, buzzing fluorescent lights and furniture the

Salvation Army would sell only as firewood.

Eric and Debbie sit with Kirk's parents. There are two

elderly women and another middle aged man in the room as

well. Maury, who's about a hundred years old - cute and

meek, fusses with an ancient VCR while smoking a cigarette.

Kirk sits down next to Eric. Kirk notices a free bank

calender on Maury's desk - dated 1991.

Maury gets the VCR going.   "Wheel of Fortune" comes up on the

screen.

The picture goes to snow and then stutters into a shot of

Grammy sitting in her kitchen. She has just clicked the

video camera on with a remote control.

She gets up and fusses with the camera.

Cutaway to Kirk tearing up.   Grammy sits back down.

Everyone besides Kirk leans in, excited to hear what they

might get. A phone rings. Maury looks around but the

ringing is coming from the TV. Grammy answers the phone.

She hangs up, puts on her glasses and lights up a smoke.

Everyone looks at Kirk who is stunned.

She blows a kiss, lifts the remote and aims it at the camera.

She throws the remote at the lens.    The picture goes to snow.

Maury digs into his desk and pulls out a mess of papers.    He

dons a pair of glasses that make his eyes look gigantic.

He adds this up on an old adding machine (the kind with the

hand crank) and writes $77,800 on a chalk board, which is

mounted on the wall behind him.

He writes "Liabilities = $79,000    Total -$1,200."

INT. FRENCH RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The upscale restaurant is crowded. Kirk and Molly are eating

at a small table. Kirk is not relaxed like he had been the

last time they ate together. He is sweating and trying to

remain cool. The Maitre d is eyeing them suspiciously.

The waiter brings a drink to Molly.

From his table, a good looking man smiles and raises a drink

to Molly. She nods back - polite but annoyed.

Molly smiles and takes his hands. The maitre d is watching

and getting angry. The waiter returns with another drink.

Another guy raises his glass to her from the bar. Molly is

getting irritated. Kirk is feeling smaller every minute.

Molly laughs. The best looking man Kirk has ever seen walks

up to the table. He and Molly hug.

Talon gives Kirk a winning handshake, complete with wink.

Kirk starts to choke. He grabs his water glass and takes a

swig but the ice collapses and the water pours all over him.

Kirk heads off to the bathroom, muttering to himself.

INT. FRENCH RESTAURANT MEN'S ROOM

Kirk is drying his shirt. A man is still zipping up as he

takes the next sink. Before washing, he offers a handshake.

Kirk takes the handshake reluctantly and then gets a business

card. Max then starts to wash up - so does Kirk.

Max takes the last paper towel - forcing Kirk to drip dry.

INT. FRENCH RESTAURANT RESTROOM HALL

Kirk exits reading Max's card - somewhat bewildered. The

Maitre d stops Kirk and speaks in a French accent.

The Maitre d looks around and then leans in and speaks

quietly - now without the French accent.

INT. FRENCH RESTAURANT

When Kirk rounds the corner, he sees that Molly and Talon are

still talking. Kirk hides behind a plant. Molly is beaming.

She stands to hug Talon and kiss his cheek before he exits

the restaurant. Kirk returns to the table.

A butch woman in the bar raises a glass in Molly's direction.

INT. MOLLY'S CAR - NIGHT

Molly and Kirk pull into a parking lot.

EXT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

It's Friday night and several college parties are raging in

the complex. Kirk leads Molly up the stairs and down the

balcony hall toward his door. They pass a few college

students on the way; a couple making out, a guy vomiting in a

bush. Two apartment windows are covered with tapestries of

Bob Marley and a giant pot leaf.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

Kirk and Molly enter.   The apartment is neat, clean and

fairly sparse.

Molly walks around and examines certain items. Kirk quietly

hides a framed picture of Marnie. Molly passes his computer

desk where she coos at a screensaver of baby polar bears.

Just as she passes it, she bumps the mouse and the computer

comes to life, revealing a "Hot Back-Door Asians" website.

Molly didn't see it and Kirk scrambles to turn off the

monitor. She turns to see what he's doing. He smiles. She

moves on to a rack of DVDs.

She spots a crate full of vinyl records.

She notices an upright piano in the corner.

She plops down on the couch.

Kirk decides to join her on the couch but then he balks into

a little dance of almost sitting. He finally commits to sit.

Molly brushes his hair back with her hand. Kirk is frozen

with fear. Molly leans in. Kirk also leans in but not too

far. Molly smiles, realizing that it's up to her to make

this official. She takes him by the collar, reels him in and

kisses him. They make out for a moment. Kirk is near panic

but he does his best to keep it together.

Kirk steps away from her and disappears into...

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT KITCHEN

He pours a glass of water. He's about to return when he sees

his reflection in the window. The boner under his khakis is

not subtle. He looks down and starts to panic.

Kirk opens the fridge and thrusts his pelvis in. He takes a

few deep, calming breaths.   He closes the fridge - still at

full alert. Kirk searches the kitchen, his panic building.

He grabs a Time Magazine. He flips through frantically. He

turns to a bikini model in an ad, then a naked aboriginal

women, then bare breasts in a breast cancer article.

He is sweating like crazy.

Kirk finally flips to a picture of Barbara Bush.   He stares

at it hard. His boner begins to retreat.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT KITCHEN

The boner pops back up. Kirk silently mouths, "MOTHERFUCKER!"

at his mischievous little man.

Kirk's reply is rushed with enthusiastic relief.

Kirk opens the freezer. He puts a few cubes in her water and

then grabs a fistful and shoves his hand in his pants.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

Molly gets cozy on the couch and looks even sexier.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT KITCHEN

Kirk runs the water while he digs under the sink. He finds

duct tape. He pulls some tape off the roll. It makes a loud

noise that causes Molly to pause and Kirk to tense up. Kirk

opens his pants and begins taping down the trouble-spot. He

coughs hard to cover each subsequent tug of the tape roll.

Kirk finishes taping up, zips his pants and checks his

profile in the reflection from the window.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

Kirk returns with two glasses of water and no visible boner.

Kirk gives an "aw-shucks" head tilt.    Molly stands.

They walk to the door. Molly leans in and they kiss a few

moments more. Kirk winces as the tape is getting a little

snug. She drops her keys and then goes down on one knee to

retrieve them. Suddenly she starts coughing. She puts her

fist over her mouth.

Kirk's POV:   As her head and fist bob in front of his crotch.

Kirk winces again. She hears the tape start to give way.

She looks up, slightly confused. Kirk looks around as though

he's looking for the source of the sound. Molly stands.

Kirk opens the door for Molly.

EXT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

As Molly exits, she gives him one last kiss. Two studly male

college students are playing foosball on their patio. They

stop when one points out the hottie who's kissing Kirk.

Molly trots off.

Kirk returns a cool "whassup" nod to the guys.

Kirk beams from the attention as he goes back inside.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT

He drifts over to his piano and sits down. The joy of what

has just happened is plastered on his face. He launches into

a furiously happy Jerry Lee Lewis style romp. Soon a

neighbor is pounding on the wall. Kirk stops playing.

Kirk continues his celebration, dancing around the apartment.

He picks up the picture of Marnie and speaks to it.

He drops the picture and continues the dance.

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT BEDROOM - NIGHT

Kirk lies in bed staring at the ceiling fan. The smile

continues as he drifts off to sleep. Time lapses as Kirk

sleeps and the sun comes up. Still smiling, his eyes open

like a shot and he reaches for his phone - "No Missed Calls."

MONTAGE OVER MUSIC:

1) Kirk gets up and goes into the bathroom.   He checks his

gut and hairline in the mirror.

2) From under his bed, he pulls out a Total Gym still in the

box. It is dusty, unopened and has a ribbon still attached

along with a card that reads, "Happy Graduation - Love Mom

and Dad." He sits in the living room bewildered as he reads

the directions. The parts are spread out all over the floor.

He works out on the machine but it soon violently collapses

underneath him. He checks his phone. "No Missed Calls."

3) He throws away unhealthy snacks and treats from the

cupboards.

He opens an untouched box of Healthy Bran and fills a bowl.

He watches cartoons as he heaps sugar on the healthy cereal

and then checks his phone. "No Missed Calls."

3) He surfs the web. He reads info on the Hair Club For Men

site. He moves to Hot_or_Not.com. The first woman is very

pretty. He rates her a seven, the next is also pretty and

gets another seven, the next girl is very unattractive. Her

score is three. Kirk feels bad for her and rates her a ten.

He checks his phone. He moves on to "BackDoorAsians.com."

4) Kirk watches a Connery James Bond movie on TV. The lower

third reads, "AMC's 24 Hours of Bond." No Missed Calls. The

sun is setting and Bond is now Roger Moore - No Missed Calls.

Kirk digs a box of Ding Dongs out of the trash and eats them

as he watches. It's dark outside and Kirk is in bed watching

Timothy Dalton - No Missed Calls. The morning light is

creeping in as Pierce Brosnan does the driving and Kirk is

still awake looking devastated - No Missed Calls.

5) Kirk is at a convenience store buying milk. He is a mess -

tired, unshaven, wearing a frumpy sweatsuit. He passes the

magazine rack and something catches his eye. It's a gorgeous

picture of Molly on the cover of Phoenix Entrepreneur

Magazine. Kirk holds up the magazine and then catches his

own reflection in a mirror on a sunglasses rack.

6) Kirk is walking home. Every street sign, billboard and T-

shirt he sees reads, "NO MISSED CALLS."

MUSIC FADES OUT

INT. KIRK'S APARTMENT BATHROOM - DAY

He stands in the shower sulking. He hears the phone ring in

the next room. He jumps out, grabs a small towel and starts

to dry off as he runs into the bedroom. He reaches the

charger base but the phone is not there. He stands and

listens hard to the ringing. He runs into the living room.

Angle on the phone. It's hiding under a pillow on the couch.

In the background, Kirk rushes around the room flipping up

papers and magazines. The phone keeps ringing and Kirk's

panic increases until he finally spots the phone. Kirk dives

for it, losing his towel in the process.

Kirk notices a woman on the landing outside behind him.   She

can see his ass through the window. He covers up.

EXT. DOWNTOWN SHOPPING DISTRICT - DAY

Kirk and Stainer come out of a record store and walk past the

shops and restaurants. Kirk holds a stack of flyers for

Stainer's band. As they walk, Kirk hands flyers to Stainer

who posts them on walls and kiosks with a staple hammer.

Kirk and Stainer look at the couples that stand at the bus

stop, sit in the outdoor cafes and walk down the sidewalk.

Each couple is fairly closely matched - pretty with pretty,

ugly with ugly, heavy with heavy, fit with fit.

Stainer posts several "Wheel in the Sky" flyers on a kiosk.

Kirk and Stainer enter a...

EXT. CAFE FRONT PATIO

...and take a table on the crowded patio.

Kirk motions toward a mismatched couple (nerdy guy with

knockout girl) who pass Kirk and Stainer's table on their way

to the valet stand. Stainer rolls his eyes.

The valet pulls a red Ferrari up to the mismatched couple and

the nerdy guy opens the door for her. Stainer shakes his

head as if to say, "Was there even a doubt?"

Kirk's phone is sitting on the table - it rings.   Kirk and

Stainer can see Molly's name on the caller ID.

The phone rings again. Kirk glances down at the phone.

Stainer keeps a stern eye on Kirk. RING! Close on Kirk's

eyes turning weak. RING! Close on Stainer's threatening

eyes. RING! Kirk gives up and looks away. Stainer's eyes

calm. Kirk snatches the phone but Stainer grabs Kirk's

wrist, pinning it to the table. RING!

RING! Kirk reaches for the phone with his other hand but

Stainer's free hand intercepts it and these arms flail around

like battling snakes. Kirk presses the button to answer the

call and, instead, moves his head down to the phone.

Stainer lets go and Kirk sits up and backs away.

Kirk gives a confident smile and an "I told you she'd call"

nod. Stainer crosses his arms and shakes his head.

Stainer spots a round little boy posting a "Lost Puppy" flyer

over one of the ten he just posted on the kiosk.

The boy instead posts it over a "Walk For a Cure" poster.

EXT. KIRK'S PARENTS' HOME - EVENING

Molly drives up and stops in front of a small home on a

quaint residential street.

She climbs out of her car, checking the address on a small

sheet of paper. She sees Kirk sitting on the front porch.

She steps up the front walk toward Kirk, who points to a

little yellow note taped to the front door.

A very old man wobbles out of the house next door with a

beagle on a leash. The man struggles a bit with the dog.

Kirk jogs over to take the leash.   Noodle jumps up on Kirk.

He and Molly pet the excited dog.

Molly takes note - animal lover - big points.

Molly and Kirk start down the sidewalk with Noodle. An old

woman comes out of the next house with her dog on a leash.

Several soft-faded cuts as Kirk and Molly move through the

neighborhood. Soon they have a third dog. Kirk points out

landmarks as they talk and laugh. Now they have a fourth

dog. Molly takes his arm.

The evening light is a bit dimmer as they give Noodle back to

Mr. Riley. Kirk turns toward his parents' house. Now

there's a car parked in the driveway and a jacked-up, knobby-

tired pick-up parked out front. The truck has two bumper

stickers ("One Nation Under GOD!" and "No Fat Chicks!")

flanking a vanity license plate that reads, "ERIX-TOY."

Kirk's shoulders slump at the sight of it.

They start toward the door.   Molly's cell phone rings.

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' HOME - EVENING

Kirk comes through the front door to find his father in the

living room watching a hockey game.

Eric steps out of the kitchen with three beers.

Eric and Dad crack up.

A flushing sound and then Ron comes out of the bathroom.

He's buckling up. Kirk's shoulders drop again.

Eric tosses Ron and Mr. Kettner each a beer.

Marnie appears in the door of the kitchen. She's holding a

corningware pot filled with mashed potatoes.

Molly finishes her call. She's up the front steps and Kirk

lets her in. Eric, Ron and Mr. Kettner are stunned. Marnie

drops the pot and it smashes on the floor in front of her.

Mrs. Kettner and Debbie rush out to see what Marnie is gaping

at. Debbie (still pregnant) is immediately threatened by the

way Eric is looking at Molly.

Kirk's never seen his family so impressed. He can't hide his

grin. Ron pops the cap off his beer and it overflows a bit.

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' KITCHEN - NIGHT

Kirk, Molly, Mr. & Mrs. Kettner, Marnie, Ron and Debbie sit

around the kitchen table and feast on a meatloaf dinner.

Eric is at the fridge grabbing a beer. Marnie is angrily

watching Ron whose eyes are all over Molly.

Eric returns to the table with the beers.

Ron looks offended and raises a palm to indicate that...

Molly smiles to reassure Kirk that she can handle herself.

Kirk raises his eyebrows into "please-behave-yourself" puppy

dog eyes. Eric shoots back an "oh whatever" sneer.

Right now I'm working on the annual

benefit for the Children's Cancer

Center.

But you've done weddings.

I've done a few.

So, what do you get for one?

Dad, could you...

Don't get your panties in a wad,

Kirk. He's just making

conversation.

Geeze, there are so many factors

that affect the cost of a wedding.

We're looking at about two hundred

people and we're gonna do this

whole Nascar theme.

I'm getting a kick-ass dress made

out of actual checkered flags and

Eric is going to be in an orange

tux with a big Home Depot logo on

the back and Tony Stewart's number

20 on the shoulders.

Oh, how fun!

So what's the damage for

supervising something like that?

Eric, please.

I'm just talkin' ballpark. I'm

ain't gonna try and Jew her down.

For a moment everyone is chewing and there is a break in the

conversation. Kirk is getting wound up tighter and tighter.

Eric, Ron and Mr. Kettner each let out a quick burst of "yeah

right" laughter.

A moment passes as they all process this. The women at the

table all know exactly what Molly means. The men are simply

confused.

Marnie looks up, surprised and touched by the comment.   Kirk

is mortified.

Kirk rubs his own head to keep it from exploding. Molly calms

him with a hand on his back. This move isn't lost on Marnie.

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' BATHROOM - LATER

Kirk splashes water on his face and then looks for a towel

but can't find one. He's forced to use his sleeve. He is a

wreck. He takes a deep breath and steps out into...

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' HOME ENTRY HALL

...to find Marnie at the front door putting her coat on.

Marnie smiles a sad smile.

Ron gives Molly a hug that makes Marnie as uncomfortable as

it does Molly. He then passes Kirk as he crosses to the

front door, carrying a pile of foiled over paper plates.

Ron and Marnie exit.   Kirk walks back into...

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' KITCHEN

Mrs. Kettner and Molly are cleaning up.

She hands Kirk a bag of Fritos and shoes him through the

basement door.

INT. KIRK'S PARENTS' BASEMENT - NIGHT

Kirk's father has built a tacky little basement bar decorated

with neon beer signs and Eric's old trophies and ribbons.

Mr. Kettner and Debbie sit at the bar and smoke as Eric

stands behind the bar and serves them cocktails. Kirk comes

down the basement stairs and joins them. The hockey game

wrap-up highlights are running on a TV mounted above the bar.

Debbie smiles and squeezes Eric's hand. Mr. Kettner nods and

raises his glass.

Debbie lets go of Eric's hand and storms upstairs.

Kirk turns to point up the stairs. As he glances back, he

finds Molly standing on the steps listening and frowning down

at him. Before Kirk can get a word out, Molly storms out of

the house. Kirk runs upstairs but she's in her car before he

can get out the front door. Eric appears behind him.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Kirk stands at work, searching Habib's bag and looking

grouchy. Fuller monitors Kirk, arms crossed. Habib lets out

a long irritated sigh.

Kirk hands the bag back to Habib and sends him on his way.

Randy, another agent, hands Kirk a note.

INSERT: The note reads, "Kirk, We need to talk.     I'm in the

food court. -M."

Kirk sighs.   Stainer is now reading over Kirk's shoulder.

INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT

The food court is crowded.     Kirk looks around for Molly but

does not see her.

Kirk turns to find Marnie sitting at a table working on a

Burrito Supreme.

Kirk sits down.

Kirk stands and walks away.

EXT. AIR SHOW ENTRANCE - DAY

Kirk and Stainer are at the ticket gate. Kirk pays for his

ticket but Stainer stands staring at him.

Kirk begrudgingly buys Stainer a ticket.

EXT. AIR SHOW

Kirk and Stainer move through the crowd. Stainer now carries

a corn dog, a giant soda and an armload of Air Show

memorabilia, including an inflatable F/A-18 Hornet.

Five men in flight suits and aviator sunglasses strut through

the crowd in slow motion. They exude masculine confidence.

Stainer runs toward them. He joins some kids and beautiful

women who are already getting autographs.

Kirk spots Molly working a charity booth. He crosses to her.

She turns to him with a this-better-be-good stance.

This melts Molly a bit.

Molly softens and smiles.

Kirk nods and smiles back.   Molly steals a quick kiss.

Molly goes into a tent to speak to Patty.    Kirk watches her

with a calm, relieved smile.

Kirk turns toward the imposing Blue Angel pilot standing

behind him. The pilot removes his shades - it's Talon.

Talon puts his arm around Kirk and walks him away from the

booth.

Talon looks over his shoulder to confirm they are alone.

Talon embraces Kirk in a tight hug.

Another Blue Angel calls over while signing Stainer's plane.

Talon finishes the long hug. He and the other Blue Angels

walk off in formation. Stainer rejoins Kirk.

Molly joins them.

MONTAGE OVER LOUD CATCHY TUNE:

1) Kirk and Molly walk arm in arm through the air show crowd.

Kirk's POV as every guy that passes checks her out. Close on

Kirk's proud expression. The Blue Angels take flight. Close

on the planes as they weave in and out of an intricate

formation. A wider shot reveals that their jet trails spell

out "MOLLY" inside a heart. Reverse to pan across Molly

(worried about Kirk's reaction), Kirk (trying not betray his

insecurity) and Stainer (trying to hold back his laughter.)

2) Kirk and Molly in a crowded movie theatre. She squeezes

his hand and he smiles back at her. Molly turns back to the

screen and Kirk's smile quickly degrades into a dirty look.

The shot widens to reveal who Kirk is glaring at - another

man (also with a date) sits on Molly's opposite side and

stares down at her cleavage. The man looks up to meet Kirk's

gaze and smiles back. He offers Kirk a fist-tap behind

Molly's head. Annoyed, Kirk doesn't tap back. Molly is

oblivious to this exchange.

3) As Molly walks down a city sidewalk at night, Kirk has

stopped to tie his shoe. When he trots after her to catch up,

he is tackled by two cops.

Molly spins around, horrified.

Molly angrily grabs Kirk by the arm and frees him from the

cop's grasp.

4) Kirk, in his TSA uniform, addresses a group of patients at

the Children's Cancer Center. He demonstrates a metal

detector wand. Molly sits with the kids who look bored out

of their minds. Suddenly, the kids light up and Kirk feels

he's making an impression until he realizes that Talon has

come up behind him. Talon is dressed in his flight suit and

carrying an arm-load of toy jets. The kids excitedly jump up

and gather 'round Talon; some even hug him.

FADE MUSIC

INT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Dressed up and wearing party hats, Kirk, Stainer, Devon, Jack

and about thirty others stand in a small, classy restaurant.

The place is decorated with balloons and streamers.   A huge

banner reads, "HAPPY BIRTHDAY KATIE!"

Patty runs in.

They hide. Molly leads her sister, KATIE, into the

restaurant. "Surprise!" Molly hugs Katie.

Stainer brushes off the comment.   Molly waves Kirk over.

Katie reaches out to feel Kirk's face. She's a bit perplexed

by the result. Two blind teenaged boys approach.

They each feel Molly's face and then start elbowing one

another like a couple of horny construction workers.

A cake is brought in as everyone sings an unrecognizable but

uncopyrighted birthday song. Katie blows out her candles.

Kirk's face drops. Molly kisses her sister on the forehead

as she has obviously coached the response. Immediately Patty

is behind Kirk, pushing him. Kirk tries to politely decline

but now Katie has him by the hand and is leading him to the

piano bench. Everyone applauds and cheers for him to play.

Kirk is sweating. He reaches for the keys but he is now

white as a ghost. Molly watches in suspense, rethinking

what she's done. Kirk's hands shake. He moves them around,

hunting for a place to begin. The party-goers stare and the

room gets quiet. Kirk puts his hand over his mouth as though

he might vomit.

Molly presses play on a CD player behind the bar. Suddenly,

a Cheap Trick song kicks in over the restaurant's sound

system. Katie jumps up to dance with her friends.

Kirk gets up from the piano and tries to laugh it off.    Talon

appears behind him and puts a hand on his shoulder.

Patty passes between them and gives Talon a dirty look.

Talon gives Kirk a respectful military salute. Kirk holds

his forced confidence until Talon departs. Once alone,

Kirk's poise deflates and he plops down into a chair.

The party goes on and Katie opens a small present.

Nobody claims it but Jack and Devon look at Stainer.

Patty and Kirk are sitting and talking at a table that is

away from the group. Across the room, Talon raises a glass

to them. Patty gives Talon the finger.

Patty heads off to get some cake. Kirk sits, considering

this information. He looks at Molly. She is wearing a small

black dress. She looks perfect in every way. Kirk crosses

the room and walks out to the...

EXT. RESTAURANT FRONT SIDEWALK

He throws his hands up in the air and does a happy dance

similar to the one he had done after their first kiss.

Stainer, Devon and Jack are around the corner as Stainer and

Jack are smoking a bowl. Devon hears Kirk's celebration and

peers around the corner. He waves the others over. The guys

come around the front to join Kirk.

Kirk pauses for dramatic effect and then puts his thumbs up.

Kirk and Stainer high five.    Jack and Devon look disturbed.

INT. RESTAURANT - LATER

Kirk and Molly are cleaning up after the party. Kirk is

relaxed and in a fantastic mood. Patty gets her coat and

hugs Molly before exiting. Molly sheepishly approaches Kirk.

Molly kisses Kirk. Now he's calm and kisses her back

passionately. She smiles a naughty smile at him.

They start cleaning up as fast as they can.   Kirk is beaming!

INT. MOLLY'S CONDO - NIGHT

MONTAGE OVER LOVE SONG:

Kirk and Molly enter her modern, luxurious condo.   Kirk takes

her coat. They kiss.

Kirk opens a bottle of wine.   He pours one glass to share.

They sit on the couch talking. Kirk is on!    He is confident

and silly and Molly is eating it up.

They are making out passionately on the couch.

Molly stands and extends her hand to Kirk. Kirk stands and

his boner is impossible to miss. This time he looks down at

it as if to say, "How 'bout them apples!?" Molly laughs and

leads him into the bedroom.

Kirk sits on the bed and Molly goes into the bathroom. He

lights a candle. He is now in a normal state of nervousness

but nothing like he had been before. He pulls out a stick of

gum. He chews it quickly and spits it out.

Kirk lies down and then sits up and then repeats this.   He

decides to sit.

Molly opens the door. She is wearing sexy ligerie and

slippers. She looks perfect. She crosses to the bed and

sits down next to Kirk. They kiss but Molly stops.

MUSIC REDUCED TO BACKGROUND

Molly smiles nervously. She stands in front of him, Crying

Game style. She removes her feet from her slippers and looks

down at them. Kirk looks down. Even her feet are fantastic.

She parts her toes.    They are webbed.   Kirk's face drops.

Kirk jumps up and paces around.

Kirk grabs his coat and heads out the door.    Molly slumps

onto her bed and cries as the door slams.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Kirk is at his post looking terribly sad. Stainer is working

at the same lane and is obviously feeling bad for his friend.

Fuller taps Kirk on the shoulder to alert him that Habib is

coming through. Habib sees this and takes his bag straight

to the search table, where he opens it for Kirk. Kirk

doesn't look inside.

Habib steps off to his gate.   Fuller gets in Kirk's face.

Kirk stomps away from the checkpoint.

Stainer goes after Kirk.

EXT. AIRPORT CURB

Kirk walks out the doors. Stainer catches up to him and they

walk down the busy curb at a quick, angry pace.

Kirk steps onto an...

INT. AIRPORT SHUTTLE BUS

Willy (the Russian) is behind the wheel and as happy as ever.

A few others are seated on the bus. Stainer follows Kirk on

board. They remain standing, holding onto poles.

Willy steps on it and drives like a maniac, knocking Kirk and

Stainer around as they argue.

Willy occasionally blurts out mindless echoes of their

argument, which Kirk and Stainer mostly ignore, like...

Stainer leans over and hugs Kirk.   Kirk doesn't hug back.

Kirk's phone rings.    He answers, forcing Stainer to let go.

INT. LAW OFFICE

Maury sits at his desk.

INT. AIRPORT SHUTTLE BUS

Kirk slumps into a seat and listens, looking upset and

shocked. Stainer stares at Kirk, trying to get a sense of

what Kirk is being told.

INT. MOLLY'S OFFICE - DAY

Patty sits behind a reception desk in a small but stylish

lobby. A sign above her desk reads, "McCall Events." Kirk

walks in. Patty puts down her work and stares back at him.

Stainer bursts in sweating and panting.

Patty comes out from behind her desk.

Stainer swaggers up into Patty's face.

WHACK!!! Patty throws an elbow and Stainer's head jacks

back. She is instantly on him, grabbing him in a headlock

and punching him in the face.

Patty stops punching and looks up curiously.      Stainer remains

in the headlock - also curious.

Patty punches him again.

Patty rams Stainer's head into the door.

Patty slams him again.

Patty and Stainer wait for it. Kirk decides how to phrase it.

Patty drops Stainer on the floor.

Kirk walks out.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT - DAY

Stainer is at his post watching the luggage on the x-ray

monitor. Suddenly, he sees Kirk coming through followed by

Marnie, Mr. & Mrs. Kettner, Eric and Debbie (still pregnant).

They are all wearing bright yellow sweatshirts. Stainer runs

around the machine to hug Kirk, who looks a little numb.

Stainer is referring to Kirk's shirt that reads, "BRANSON

BOUND" in big letters.

The others come through. Their shirts are decorated likewise.

Stainer takes the boarding pass from Kirk's hand.

Marnie isn't pleased but she's going along with it.   Eric

calls back as they all head to the gate.

Ron comes through security and over to Kirk.

Kirk gives Ron a twenty and Ron steps away.    Stainer is

appalled. He calls after Ron.

Kirk doesn't look into his eyes.

Kirk looks.

They exchange an awkward handshake. Kirk walks away.

Stainer stands alone, watching him go.

Stainer tightens his jaw and runs his fingers through his

hair. Finally he kicks his head back and, with great

determination, he stomps off in the opposite direction.

Follow Stainer past security, dodging passengers and carts.

He arrives at the...

INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT

Stainer marches up to the Orange Julius. A short, doughy,

plain girl works the counter. (This is the same girl that

Stainer had claimed to have "boned" earlier.) She's wearing

an orange visor and rubber gloves. Several customers are

waiting but Stainer moves to stand in front of her.

She looks up from her smoothie.    She has drink powder on her

face. She groans to see him.

She hands a smoothie to a customer.

Stainer gets in the customer's face.

INT. AIRPORT - SOUTHWEST GATE

A large crowd of passengers are waiting to board.   The gate

agent, makes an announcement.

Marnie butts into the line.

She hands him the pass - marked "C."

She stomps away.

INT. AIRPORT FOOD COURT - LATER

Stainer and Tina sit at a table. He sits with his head down

like a sad little boy. She pities him.

She holds up her finger with an engagement ring on it.

Stainer drops his head onto the table. Tina rubs his hair

for a second and then walks away.

INT. AIRPLANE - 737 - EVENING

Kirk is somber as he finds his seat near the middle of the

plane. From two rows back, Eric reaches over some other

passengers to tap Kirk on the shoulder.

Eric hangs up a high five and Kirk leaves it hanging. Kirk

takes a seat on the aisle next to Marnie. He gives Marnie a

forced smile. She puts her head on his shoulder. Pan over to

the window seat where Ron sits watching them, wearing his new

travel pillow.

Suddenly, there is a commotion at the front of the plane.

Stainer barges past the flight attendant, holding up his TSA

badge.

Stainer grabs Kirk by the shoulder, pulls him out of his seat

and about two rows down the aisle before Kirk overpowers him

and stops.

The pilot is now behind Stainer and towering over him.

Stainer turns into his face.

The pilot backs up and goes for help.

Eric gets up and steps into Stainer's face. In mid-sentence

and without pausing Stainer zaps Eric with a stun gun. Eric

sails back into his seat as Stainer continues.

Fuller and two other security people enter the plane.   The

pilot briefs them on what's happening.

The other passengers gasp and most of them look at Habib, who

sits a few seats behind Kirk.

Fuller grabs Stainer by the collar.

Stainer turns and punches Fuller in the face, knocking him

backwards onto the other agents.

Kirk just stares back. Fuller and the agents grab Stainer

but he clutches a seat and stays put.

Stainer loses his grip and the agents drag him off the plane.

Kirk sits down and Marnie comforts him.

INT. AIRPORT - EVENING

Over a bummed out song we see different areas of the airport.

People on moving sidewalks. People on escalators. Bags

moving around on a carousel. People in line. Flight Arrival

and Departure times. Food trays moving down a buffet. Bags

moving by on the x-ray monitor. People walking like cattle

to their gates. Through the crowd, we see a man running

against the traffic. It's Kirk!

INT. HILTON BALLROOM - NIGHT

Molly,   looking beautiful in a formal gown, moves through a

sea of   tables. Hundreds of formally dressed people are

seated   around the tables, eating dinner. Molly greets,

kisses   and shakes hands with several people as she goes.

INT. AIRPORT SECURITY CHECKPOINT

Kirk is huffing and puffing as he rounds the corner and

arrives at the checkpoint. He looks around frantically.

Randy points to a room marked, "Airport Security - Authorized

Personnel Only."

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM

Kirk bursts in to find Stainer bent over a metal table.

Fuller (with two black eyes) and another agent hold him down

as a homeland security agent stands behind Stainer, giving

him the full cavity search. Kirk doesn't miss a beat.

A jacket is hanging by the door. Kirk reaches in and grabs

the keys. He turns fast and exits. Fuller jacks Stainer's

head onto the table.

The door opens more slowly and Kirk regards his friend with

great reverence. Stainer strains to lift his head against

Fuller's strength.

SLAM!   Stainer's head is jacked back onto the table.

Kirk bolts.

INT. HILTON - SMALL BANQUET ROOM

This room is set up as a staging area for the cancer benefit.

Patty and several others are buzzing around preparing for the

next phase of the evening. Molly enters, holding a walkie

talkie up to her head and speaking into it.

Patty grabs the walkie talkie.

Patty tosses the walkie-talkie back and then crosses to help

a group of young cancer patients, some in wheelchairs, to

unpack their sculptures and label them for the auction.

A stressed-out woman in a BEEHIVE hairdo picks up a SMALL

BOY's sculpture. She hails Molly.

Beehive sighs hard and hands the ashtray back to the boy.

Molly turns around and a look of surprise comes over her.

Reverse to show Talon holding a ridiculously large flower

arrangement.

INT. HILTON BALLROOM

The emcee is taking bids on a little sculpture of an abstract

four-legged animal.

Molly picks up the small boy's ashtray and joins the emcee on

stage. She takes a deep breath before facing the crowd.

Huge applause.

No replies. The small boy hangs his head. He was hoping his

piece would fetch more. His mother pats him on the head.

The small boy looks up, elated. The spotlight searches the

room and lands on Kirk near the back. The audience applauds.

Talon stands across the room, crossing his arms in defiance.

Eric bursts in through a door near Kirk.

The crowd applauds.

Bigger applause.

Eric makes a fist to indicate that it's time for the killing

blow. Kirk nods back his agreement.

Eric's eyes go wide. This is not what he had in mind. The

crowd erupts into laughter. Talon also laughs off the bid.

The crowd shifts from laughter into excited chatter.

This sets off a volley of whispers among the crowd and puts a

smile on Talon's face.

Kirk looks to Molly, then his brother - who is shaking his

head NO! He then scans the hopeful expressions on the faces

of the kids and their parents. Kirk takes a deep breath.

The crowd cheers.

The young sculptor beams. The crowd cheers again. Kirk

gives a smile and a nod of resignation as he leaves the room.

INT. HILTON BAR

Kirk and Eric sit at the bar, each nursing a drink.   Eric is

fuming.

Kirk turns to find that he is sitting next to BILLY JOEL, who

is smoking a cigar. Eric passes him the ashtray that Kirk

just bought.

Billy Joel, ashes in the ashtray.

Kirk and Eric look at one another in disbelief and then at

Joel.

Joel places a cocktail in front of Kirk and then clinks his

own against it.

INT. HILTON BALLROOM - LATER

The crowd cheers as the curtain rises.   The crowd's

excitement turns to confusion.

From the back of the room, Molly notices the crowd's

reaction. She turns to see Kirk seated before the huge white

grand piano, his hands sweaty and shaking over the keys.

Kirk looks at the crowd.   Hundreds of confused faces stare

back at him.

Beehive rushes Patty in a panic.

Kirk wrings his hands as they shake harder.

Billy Joel stands in the wings and gives Kirk a nod of, "You

can do it."

Molly turns to walk away but notes ring out from the piano

and she stops.

Kirk plays and sings "Just the Way You Are" - badly. His

voice and hands shake but he forges on. The audience is

confused, cringing and restless.

Someone starts booing.   Kirk can't help but glance up to see

who it is - it's Eric.

When Kirk reaches the instrumental break, he settles in a bit

- he can actually play.

As the last note fades, Kirk leaps up, and runs out into

the...

EXT. HILTON BACK ALLEY

Kirk bursts out the door and vomits into a dumpster. He

falls backwards against the wall and slides down into a

sitting position.

Molly steps out into the alley.

Kirk stands up.

Molly hugs him. The first intro riff of a piano version of

"Pressure" kicks in and the crowd inside goes crazy.

Talon walks out into the alley, still holding the flowers.

Kirk takes Molly's hand and leads her past Talon.

EXT. WEDDING - DAY

Close on a preacher.

Close on Kirk - looking dapper but sweaty and nervous.

Close on Molly - looking more beautiful than ever.

A wider shot reveals the NASCAR theme wedding of Eric and

Debbie. Kirk stands among the groomsmen. Each are dressed

in tuxes that represent the colors, numbers and sponsors of

certain drivers. Molly stands among the bridesmaids. Each

dressed in a checkered-flag gown. Ron and Marnie are also in

the wedding party.

Debbie hands her mulatto baby to the preacher so that she and

Eric can share a disgusting wide open mouth kiss. Debbie

grabs Eric's ass while Eric gropes her breasts.

Stainer and Wheel in the Sky kick into "Any Way You Want It"

from a bandstand nearby. Patty dances in front of Stainer -

he winks back at her.

Devon cuts up a wedding cake that looks like a full-sized

racing wheel and tire.

EXT. WEDDING - STREET

The guests throw rice as Eric and Debbie run to a stretch

Nascar limo.

Eric picks up Debbie and loads her in through the window.   He

then runs around to the other side and jumps into that

window. The limo burns rubber as it peels away.

Pan across the guests as they wave goodbye; Devon and his

squeaky clean family, Jack and a hot date, Mr. & Mrs.

Kettner, Marnie & Ron. Patty and Stainer - making out. Kirk

and Molly stand together arm in arm. Kirk holds a ceramic

urn, painted with the Las Vegas skyline.

Push in on the urn until the skyline becomes real. Push in

toward the top of The Stratosphere Casino. Continue pushing

in until we are inside the observation deck. Push through

the gift shop where the TV is tuned to CNN. As we pass the

TV we hear.

Push past the TV, out of the gift shop and to the other side

of the observation deck where we find Kirk and Molly. They

kiss before they open the urn and pour Grammy's ashes over

the side.

