FADE IN:

EXT. FIREHOUSE - DAY

Ann is walking down the street.  The firedog runs out of the

firehouse, she gives the dog a biscuit, and pats him on the

head.

The fireman is out front with a cup of coffee.  Ann hands him

a poster.

EXT. STATE AND MAIN - INTERSECTION - DAY

Morris and Spud, two codgers, are about to cross the street

when they hear a beeping and stop.

As they cross, we see the tail end of a van, and the group

nods in that direction.

As Morris and Spud speak a car is coming down the street, and

bounces in the pothole.

DOUG MACKENZIE, a young Republican type, walks up to join

them.

INT. COFFEE CORNER - DAY

They enter the Coffee Corner.  Carla is serving the folk, and

Jack the owner is behind the counter.

Ann hands Carla a poster.

Doug and the two codgers move to a table by the window where

Carla, the nubile waitress, brings them coffee.  Ann talks to

a woman at the counter.

Outside the front booth, on the street, the airport van

cruises by.

EXT. STATE AND MAIN - DAY

As they walk out we hear a high pitched beeping sound at the

traffic light.  We see DOC WILSON crossing the street,

holding his doctor's bag.  An ELDERLY MAN approaches Doc at

the crossing.  As Walt and Bill walk, the airport van follows

them.

They stop in front of a rack of fifty "factory seconds."

Black and red hunting jackets, in front of the sporting goods

store.  The sign reads "FACTORY SECONDS, FIVE DOLLARS."

Bill shows Walt a brochure from Waterford, which shows a

picture of the Old Mill.  Walt reads.

ANGLE:

INT. THE AIRPORT VAN - CONTINUOUS

UBERTO is asleep.  Bill wakes him up.

Uberto comes out of the car and squints around.

He shows Uberto the brochure.

Walt shows Uberto the Firehouse.  Uberto looks through the

viewfinder.

A pick-up truck with two calves in it stops, the driver seen

from the back is a farmer smoking a pipe.

INT. TAVERN INN LOBBY - DAY

A desk clerk, SCOTT, looks up.  Behind the desk a display of

several souvenir plates, "Souvenir of Waterford, VT", with a

picture of the Old Mill on them.  Walt picks one up and hands

it to Bill.

Walt talks into his cell phone as he talks to Scott.

BEAT.  Bill looks around, sees a sign on a desk.  Consults

his tourist folder.  As they talk they walk into deserted

ballroom and play shuffleboard and archery.

Walt carries the shuffleboard stick over his shoulder.

INT. WALT'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Walt is talking on a cellphone.  A male P.A. is bringing in

bags of equipment.  Bill is still sitting perched on a desk,

typing into his computer.  Uberto is sitting on a couch,

smoking.

We see the shuffleboard stick on the desk, and the Old Mill

plate on the wall.

He gestures for Bill who hands him the storyboards.

ANGLE

Scott enters.

They go back to the flowers.  Walt takes the card, reads.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - WAITING ROOM - DAY

INSERT FRONT PAGE

"Burlington Banner".  Picture of movie star Bob Barrenger,

and Banner headline: "Waterford chosen as sight of new Bob

Barrenger film.  A story of small town life based on..."

Carla knocks on the door to the back room, voices from

inside.  Outside, on two chairs, the MAYOR, GEORGE BAILEY, a

man in his fifties, and JOE WHITE, the writer, dressed in an

army field jacket and jeans, waiting to be admitted.

Joe is reading an old "Welcome to Waterford" tourist folder.

The door to the room opens, and Joe stands, looks inside,

squints.  Takes off his reading glasses and puts on another

pair.

Carla brushes past them.

Carla enters the back room.  As she does so, she passes the

First A.D., who is on the phone.

CAMERA takes us with Carla into the back room.  Past the A.D.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - WALT'S OFFICE - DAY

Inside the room, production boards being carried in,

blackboards, schedules taped to the wall, sketches of Main

Street, a large "days till shoot...4" sign.  The Old Mill

plate is on the desk.

The PRODUCTION DESIGNER is bent over a worktable, he holds a

compass and refers to blueprints and a scale model of the

Firehouse and the Old Mill, which are on the table.

Walt is holding glossy photographs, and leafs through them as

the Production Designer talks.  They leaf through

storyboards.

We see that Walt is leafing through glossy photos of horses.

Walt has shuffleboard stick over his shoulder.

ANGLE ON

Storyboards of firehouse scene.

Carla enters.

Walt goes to the door, opens it and looks around.

EXT. WALT'S OFFICE - DAY

Joe reading the Burlington Banner.  He stands up.

Walt and Mr. Bailey enter Walt's office.

ANGLE

Interior Walt's office.

Pause.

He hands an invitation to Walt.

Phone rings.  Walt motions to an aide, who writes in green on

a production board... "Tuesday 12th, dinner, Mayor."

Walt starts for the phone.

Mayor leaves the office.

Walt goes to the phone.

A production assistant comes in, installing a piece of

equipment.  She brushes past the drywipe board, where we see

she wipes out "Dinner with the Mayor."

First A.D. sticks his head into the room.

He hangs up.  Pause.

First A.D. takes out a book, "The History of Waterford" and

reads.

He hands Polaroids of the burnt Old Mill around.  All look at

them.

ANGLE IN

Debris by some water.

He puts the Polaroids down by the model of the Old Mill.

BEAT

Joe White, the WRITER, enters.

He shows the Polaroids -- they show the debris, and Bill

standing by them.

PAUSE

The phone rings.

PAUSE

He nods at Joe, who leaves the office.  Hold on Walt as he

looks at horse pictures.

ANGLE ON

Joe, outside Walt's door, looking at his script and shaking

his head.

ANGLE HIS POV

INSERT THE SCRIPT

We see for the first time that the name of the script is "The

Old Mill," by Joseph Turner White.

We hear raucous laughter from Walt, et al, in the B.G.

Joe passes the First A.D. on the telephone, sees Bill.  The

P.A.'s are humping mounds of luggage.

Scott in an argument with an electrician.

A delivery man appears with an invoice and a crate.  Scott

checks the invoice against a list.

The GIRL P.A. arrives with a huge bouquet.

Joe the writer enters, goes up to the desk.

The Scott's eyes turn toward the door.  Everyone's eyes turn

towards the door.

ANGLE POV

Bob Barrenger, the star, screamingly fit, leather jacket,

jeans, carrying a gym bag.  He smiles, goes up to the desk.

As he goes up to the desk, teenagers, who have been waiting

in the lobby, crowd to him.

The teenagers retreat.

First A.D. walks through the lobby.

An old man, the BELLHOP, is sitting by the front door, eating

his lunch out of an old galvanized tin lunch bucket.  He puts

it down, and gets up and takes the bags.

The lobby is filled with gawkers  CHUCKIE, a young boy

holding a bat and ball, comes over with an autograph pad.

Barrenger brushes him aside.

He takes Chuckie's ball and autographs it: "CHUCKIE!  From

your pal, Bob Barrenger."

CAMERA PANS off Bob as he talks to Chuckie, and onto Joe, who

is wandering around the lobby.  The First A.D. comes up to

Joe.

INT. COFFEE CORNER - DAY

ANGLE INS.

PAN OFF "Trials of the Heart" theatrical poster.  Two old

codgers, Morris and Spud, and Jack sitting in the same window

booth chatting.  Phone rings.  Carla answers it.

The Mayor is taking a pack of Camels from Carla's father.

ANGLE ON

Carla, at the counter, reading "The Old Mill"

surreptitiously.

Carla, who has been waiting for the order to be prepared,

takes it from her father, starts out the door.

She gets up.

She starts to exit the Coffee Corner.  Jack picks up a copy

of 'People' magazine.

INSERT

An article of Bob Barrenger.

Carla has gone over it with a highlighter.  The article is

called "Bob Barrenger's Little Problem."

ANGLE

Interior Coffee Corner.

He starts to exit and turns back.

They exit.

We hear the TRAFFIC LIGHT beeping from the street.

EXT. BOOKSHOP - DAY

Joe, pacing in front of the window.  Theatrical sign in the

window.  Sign in the window: "Out!  Will return at..." Ann

comes up to the door.  Starts opening it with a key.

She looks up at the sign, changes the hand to read a quarter

to three.  She opens the door.  Goes inside.  He follows.

Camera follows.

INT. BOOKSTORE - DAY

Old Bookstore and stationary store.  Several old typewriters

for sale.

She hangs up.

She picks up half-knitted sweater off computer.

He has picked up a typewriter, old, manual.

Little kids enter to get candy.  As Joe speaks, he takes off

his regular glasses and puts on his reading glasses and

inserts a piece of paper into the typewriter and types,

"Everyone makes their own fun -- if you don't make it

yourself, it's not fun, it's entertainment."

He looks up.

He switches glasses to look at her.  A very OLD WOMAN comes

in, goes back to the coffee machine.

Ann takes down a book from a shelf.

INT. WALT'S ROOM - DAY

Walt, Bob Barrenger and the SCRIPT SUPERVISOR are savaging

the script.

Walt opens a case and extracts his lucky pillow which is

embroidered "Shoot first.  Ask questions afterward."

Knock on the door.

Joe enters.

Knock on the door.  Carla enters with another brown bag.

As Bob talks, he exchanges glances with Carla.

Knock at door.  CLAIRE WELLESLEY enters, the FEMALE STAR.

Very sexual.  Very serious.  Around thirty.  She looks in.

Pause.

PAUSE

PAUSE

EXT. STATE AND MAIN - DAY

ANGLE ON

Anne, who is putting up posters of the play.  She sighs and

walks forward, into Joe, who is waiting at the traffic light,

his bag on the ground beside him.

He nods.  Looks down at her posterior.

He extracts the book of his she had in her back pocket.  He

looks at his photo on the back cover.  They start to cross

the street.

She holds up "Anguish."

They stop by the park bench.

The cop, CAL, passes.

He starts to walk, she puts the typewriter down on the

ground.  Joe hesitates.  He puts the script under the

typewriter.  He shakes his hand.

They walk on.

EXT. SPORTING GOODS STORE - DAY

The OWNER is closing up.

He walks away.

He tries on a jacket.  One sleeve is one foot shorter than

the other.

She gestures at the Firehouse.

He nods, a BEAT.  He looks down at the jacket with one sleeve

too short.

They walk past the firehouse.  She gives the dog biscuit to

the firedog who runs out of the firehouse to her.

BEAT.  He gets a bit choked up.

Joe shakes his head.  They walk off.

EXT. RAILROAD CROSSING - DAY

BEAT.  They stop and look at each other.  BEAT.  A railroad

crossing bar comes down behind them, as we hear the DINGING

and realize we are at a railroad crossing.

PAUSE.  We see the train pass in the b.g.  We hear the train

whistling.  It's way off.

They walk on away from the station.  In the b.g. we see the

stationmaster.  He and Ann wave.  They walk past the shingle

for Doc Wilson.

They walk on together and find themselves on a residential

street.

EXT. ANN'S HOUSE - DUSK

They are walking.  They stop in front of an old picket fence

with a porch swing.

PAUSE

They walk onto the porch and sit on the swing.

They swing back and forth.  The swing creaks.

Doug walks up.

Doug, as he takes Ann toward the door.

Joe walks off and exchanges glances with Ann, who lingers

behind.  She pushes the porch swing and exits.  As it swings,

Joe watches.

INT. TRAIN STATION - NIGHT

Joe enters with his bag.  He stands looking at the long

poster reading: "Waterford, Home of the Huskies - Division

Champions - 1971, 1972, 1974, 1975, 1976."

BEAT.  Joe is looking at the banner when the old

stationmaster enters.

BEAT.  The stationmaster looks around, and leans in to Joe,

confidentially.

The DOOR opens.  It is Walt.  The stationmaster retreats.

Walt comes forward.

PAUSE

PAUSE

Walt picks up a cell phone, dials.  Lights of train go by

outside.  Stationmaster enters and calls the train.

EXT. BOOKSTORE - DAY

The production assistant is stapling a casting notice for

"The Old Mill" half over the notice of the amateur

theatricals poster.  Doug shows up, looks in the window.

Looks at poster, takes it down, looks around.

ANGLE ON

The park bench.  Ann, her feet up on the old typewriter, is

sitting, reading the script.  Doug comes up.

Ann gestures at the script.

INT. MAYOR'S HOME - DAY

The Mayor's Wife comes into the room.  Her hands are full of

lists, giving instructions to a handyman.

Cal, the policeman, enters, carrying an old spinning wheel.

Doug enters.  Cal exits carrying a pinball machine.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Joe walks up.  Ann is standing there.

PAUSE

Postman exits.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - DAY

Sign reads THREE DAYS till shoot.

Walt is on the phone.  Covers the phone.  Crossed sticks on

the wall, Walt plays with a shuffleboard discus.  Girl P.A.

brings cup of coffee to Walt.  Her T-shirt reads: "DOES IT

HAVE TO BE AN OLD MILL?"

Walt hangs up the phone.  Secretary enters with folders that

she hands to Walt.

A P.A. comes in with a big bakery box.  They open it to show

it is a huge loaf of bread, and on it is written, in bread,

"Waterford Welcomes The Old Mill."

CAMERA MOVES on past the production board, where we see

"Dinner With Mayor" in red.  And the costume designer comes

up.

He goes into comfab with the costume designer.

CAMERA FOLLOWS Walt to the sound of crying.  We HEAR CRYING

from the next room.  Walt opens the door quietly.

BEAT.  He motions his entourage to stand back.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - WASH ROOM - CONTINUOUS

He enters the room. CAMERA FOLLOWS.

PAUSE.  Claire MUMBLES.

As they talk, the A.D.'s come in and hand him sheets to

approve.

The door to her room opens.  A P.A. brings in a bunch of

Lilacs, hands them to Walt.

Claire nods, breaks into sobs.

Secretary comes in with memos and Walt deals with them while

comforting Claire.

BEAT.  She sobs.  She shakes her head.  She brings herself

under control.

He puts his arm around her, starts walking toward the door.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - BACK ROOM - DAY

He opens the door.  We HEAR the First A.D. and the Costume

Designer chatting outside the door as they walk out.

CAMERA FOLLOWS the two out.  A tableau of the four of them.

The First A.D. drinking coffee, sees he has been overheard.

BEAT

Claire starts soundlessly heaving, sobbing.  She goes "Oh!"

as if she has just been hit in the stomach, falls back into

the room, closes the door.  Sobbing sounds emanate.

EXT. PARK BENCH - DAY

Ann and Joe sit on a bench.  He is looking at her as she

finishes the script.  Tears in her eyes.  She closes the

cover.

Joe takes off one pair of glasses and changes them for

another.

Emma waves and nods.

Joe and Ann walk down the street.  As they do so they are

passed by the airport van.

EXT. HOTEL STEPS - DAY

Walt and the A.D. come down the steps to meet the arriving

airport van.  It stops.  MARTY ROSSEN gets out.  Walt hands

his bags to a P.A.

He hands Marty the breadloaf.  Marty takes a bite.

As they speak, a P.A. is unloading Marty's high-end luggage

from the van.

They start up the stairs when Doc Wilson walks by.  Girl on a

scooter scooting the other way, her arm in a cast.  Marty and

Walt turn back to watch on the steps, under the awning.

Carla walks through carrying food bags.

INT. BOB'S ROOM - DAY

Bob is doing Tai Chi.  Knock on the door.  He goes to open

it.  Carla is bringing him his dinner.

She comes in.

She puts his dinner down on the coffee table.  He takes out

money from his pants to pay her.

He sits before his dinner, hands her some money.  Remembers

himself.

Carla WHISPERS her age to him.  He makes her a drink out of

his fridge, hands it to her.

PAUSE

EXT. MAIN STREET - DUSK

Joe is walking down the street.  A script in his hand,

scribbling.  Uberto walks next to him.

Joe, as he is scribbling in the script.

He walks away and the CAMERA takes him into a backyard, by a

bunch of clotheslines.  His glasses fall apart as he changes

them.  He looks up as the wind blows the sheet.

He sees Ann, sitting on the backstairs of what, as we draw

closer, we see is the playhouse.  In back of her we see the

"Trials of the Heart" flats, seen from the back.

ANGLE JOE'S POV

They walk down the street.  As they walk down the street, the

dog comes over and Annie throws him his bone over her

shoulder.

He gets an idea, and trades glasses, one pair for the other.

He kneels.

A little kid is walking by, carrying a fishing rod.

She ducks under the sheet hanging by the door, she and Joe

come upon the fishergirl, who is standing by the bank about

to make a cast.

We see Annie take some leader from the little girl and burn

one end to make a hinge.

Joe takes the hinge, and a match and tries to fix the hinge,

and burns his finger.

He grabs for the nearest object.  PAUSE.

Joe shows her.

EXT. BOOKSTORE - DUSK

Doug standing, holding a bunch of flowers.  The A.D. walks

by.  Looks in the window.

INT. WALT'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Marty and Walt et al studying various documents.  Claire

sitting there.

Claire starts back to her room.

Bill hands him the phone.

Joe enters.  His finger BANDAGED.

Claire starts to get up.

Claire exits, crying.

Joe exits.  They turn to survey the board.

INT. JOE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Joe takes out paper, looks around.  Sighs.  Picks up phone,

calls back.

He takes out a sheet of foolscap and a pencil.  Starts to

write.  A knock at the door.

He hangs up the phone, goes to the door, opens it.  It is

Claire.

She looks around, sees a gift basket containing a bottle of

Stolichnaya and a box of matzoh, wrapped with a "Welcome

Back" ribbon.

She goes into the bathroom.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Ann Black sitting on the park bench, holding the lure.

He gives her the bouquet.

Doug starts to cry.  First A.D. shows up.

INT. JOE'S ROOM - NIGHT

Joe is standing by the side of the bed, holding Claire's

clothes, trying to induce her to put them on.  She is sitting

on the side of the bed, naked.

Sound of a KNOCK at the door.

He gestures to the bathroom, he hands her her clothes.

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Ann hurriedly arranging the flowers in the "platen" of the

typewriter.  From inside the room we hear Joe's voice:

"Alright, one moment!"  He opens the door.

He closes the door.

INT. JOE'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Claire is still sitting on the bed, has a lit cigarette.

Poured herself a drink.  Joe goes over to her, thrusts her

clothes on the floor.

Joe hustles back to the door.  Opens the door.  Ann is still

standing there with the typewriter.

Joe looks back over his shoulder.

She hands him a bouquet.

He turns the card over.

She goes into the bathroom, fills up the vase.  Comes out.

PAUSE

She starts to exit.

INT. TAVERN INN HALLWAY - NIGHT

Ann digs in pocket, takes out the lure we previously saw in

Joe's finger.  She re-enters the room.

ANGLE ON ROOM

Claire is standing there, basically naked.  PAUSE.

PAUSE

INT. HALL - NIGHT

Ann puts down the typewriter and types into it, "The truth

may not always set you free, but it is always the truth -

Joseph Turner White, 'Anguish.'"  She affixes the lure to it

and leaves them on the typewriter.  She starts down the hall,

humming.  Behind her we see the door to Bob Barrenger's room

open.  Bob comes out, looks down the hall.  The coast is

clear.  Carla comes out.  They kiss chastely, say goodnight.

She starts down the hall, humming.

EXT. MAYOR'S PORCH - DAY

The postman walk sup.  We see two workmen putting up a sign

over the door '1835.'  One has a copy of "The Hollywood

Reporter" in his back pocket.

A paint truck pulls up outside the Mayor's house.  Painters

come out.  Sherry comes outside the house.

He and his assistant go into the house with wallpaper.

Doug comes up the walk, a bit rabid.

Sherry disappears into the house.

In the B.G. we see Sherry and the painter.

From INSIDE THE HOUSE, we hear the Mayor's wife screaming.

Mayor runs inside, Doug and Marty follow.

INT. COFFEE CORNER - DAY

Geezers are at the front table in the window.  Carla's

father, JACK, behind the counter trying to assemble an

espresso machine, reading from the instructions.

Joe enters and exchanges greetings with the locals.  He

changes his glasses and takes out a notebook.  He is shaking

his head as he does so...

Ann enters.

A crowd has gathered around the table as he tells the story.

Ann shows a sniped "canceled" poster of her play.

He resumes talking to his companion.

He shuffles through his pages, he goes in his pocket for a

note, he brings out the old lure.  He smiles at her, she

smiles back.

She takes Joe's hand, and he winces.

He runs out.

INT. WALT'S OFFICE - DAY

Uberto looking at storyboards and spinning the discuss and

shaking his head.

Walt on the phone.  First A.D. shows up.

Girl P.A. walks through the b.g. in "Does it have to be an

Old Mill?" T-shirt.

Claire shows up, dressed in traveling clothes, her luggage

behind her, followed by production assistant.

Claire exits.

Joe barges in.

INT. WALT'S OFFICE - DAY

Joe holding forth to Bill, Walt and Marty.  Joe consults his

notes, changes his glasses, reads on:

Joe exits.  We see the notation, "Dinner at the Mayor's

House."

We see Marty walk up to a P.A. in the next room.  The P.A.

hands Marty a slip of paper.  Walt goes to them.

He takes out his cardcase.

Marty writes on the card.

ANGLE ON CARD

It reads: "Your gift for fiction everything sweet."

ANGLE ON WALT

As he walks back into the other room, holding the permit.

We see him take the card, write "Over" on it and draw an

arrow.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Joe, happy as a clam, sauntering down the street.  Smoking a

huge cigar.  He passes two old codgers, Morris and Spud.

ANGLE ON

Joe, as he nods to himself, takes out a pad, starts to jot a

note, fumbles with his glasses.  Joe saunters on, writing, we

hear the beeping from the traffic light.  Joe hears a

screeching of tires.

He looks up, a film station wagon comes barreling around the

corner, hits the pothole, goes out of control, careens, turns

over, knocks down the control box of the traffic light.

Joe holds a beat, runs over to the car, to driver's side.

Battered driver, bleeding, upside down.  Joe drags him from

the car.  It is Bob Barrenger.

Barrenger points to the other side.  Joe looks.

ANGLE POV

Carla is the passenger, she is dazed but unhurt.

ANGLE ON

The car.

Carla has extracted herself from the wreck, stands, woozily,

on the sidewalk.

BEAT.  She nods, understanding.  A light comes on in the

apartment over the store.  She looks up, starts away down the

street.  BEAT.  Bob rocks back and forth.

INT. BOB'S HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Bob is being bandaged by Doc Wilson.  Marty on the phone.

Walt, the First A.D., and Joe also in the room.

Doc exits.

Bob goes over to the phone, his head bandaged.  Walt,

smoking, stands by the window.

He hangs up.

There is an abrupt knocking at the door.

The boys in the room go into a whisper conference.

The knock is repeated.

Knocking was repeated.

They murmur their assent.  Knocking is repeated.  Walt goes

to the door.

Marty ushers Joe and the First A.D. out the room.

The cop comes in the room.

Bob gestures to his wallet which is on the desk.

The cop is writing down these statements.

Cal reaches in back of him, on his belt, and takes out not

the cuffs, but the summons book, he starts to write a

summons.

Marty walks him out into the hall.  Photographers and

onlookers in the hall.  Phone rings.  Walt answers it.

Door to hall opens.  Claire comes in.

EXT. FIRESTATION TO PRINTSHOP - NIGHT

The firetruck is being backed into the firestation.  Outside

a couple of passerbys are running in the rain, putting their

collars up.

We see Joe is in the firestation writing in his book.  As the

firetruck backs up we see the firedog bark, and Joe looks up.

ANGLE JOE'S POV

Ann is walking past the firestation.  Joe comes out to look

at her.

They start to walk down the street in the rain.

They take refuge under the awning of the printshop.

They look in the window of the old printshop, the awning

under which they have sheltered.

Joe looks in the window of the printshop.

They take refuge under the awning of the printshop.

ANGLE ON

Ann, runs out into the rain, Joe runs along side her.  In the

b.g., we see the fireman closing the doors of the firehouse,

and the firedog being restrained, on a leash, by him and shut

up inside the firehouse.

EXT. BOOKSHOP - NIGHT

There's a huge flash of lightning and a clap of thunder and

the lights on the street flicker, and come back on.  BEAT.

ANGLE ON

Bookshop.

She goes into the washroom area, and comes out with two

towels.  She throws one to Joe, and begins toweling her hair

with the other.

She hands him some plans, which show photos of the old

printshop, and copies of the Old Waterford Sentinel, circa

1900.

She emerges from the back room.  She has stripped off her wet

jacket and shirt, and put on a light stockboy's jacket.

There's another clap of thunder, and all the lights go out.

PAUSE.

Ann takes a small match from the drawer, and lights a small

kerosene barn lantern.

She sits down on the couch, and spreads the plan on a small

table.

She shows him the poster for "Trials of the Heart."

He moves closer to her.  He is about to kiss her when the

firedog appears on the couch between them.

She goes in the pocket of her jacket.  The dog follows her.

She cannot find a dog biscuit.

BEAT

Joe pats the dog on the head.  Leads him to the front door,

puts him out.  The door blows in the rain.

She comes close to him.  The dog reappears between them.  Joe

looks around, and goes back to a window, and shuts the

window.

Ann crosses to her desk.  Takes out a box of dog biscuits.

The box is empty.  The two of them lead the dog out, and pet

it on the head.  They turn back and the door is slammed.

EXT. BOOKSHOP - NIGHT

BEAT

They start back to find the door locked.

Joe nods.

They turn and Cal, the policeman, is standing next to them.

In raingear.

He starts taking off his slicker.

He covers her with his slicker, and they walk away.

WE SEE in the b.g. Uberto and his helper at the firehouse.

Uberto swings a shuffleboard disk, and the dalmation window

shatters and falls in the street.  Some falls on his head.

INT. COFFEE CORNER - DAY

Doug talking to Postman.

Carla is serving breakfast, her wrist in a cast and a small

bandage on her forehead.

She assembles a tray, starts out the door as Maude comes in.

Carla goes out the door.

He produces some first grade spelling text.

They move out of earshot.  Ann goes into the Real Estate

Office NEXT DOOR to the Coffee Corner.

Pausing long enough to look in the window at the placard

advertising the Old Printshop.

ANGLE INSIDE POV

The placard "Old Printshop...78 thousand dollars" "Under

Agreement."

INT. WALT'S ROOM - DAY

Walt, Marty, Bob, Claire, Joe, coffee urns.  They work on the

script.

Knock at the door.  Marty goes to the door.

ANGLE

Carla outside the door, talking to Marty.  Marty takes tray.

Carla has bandage on her head and a small cast on her wrist.

ANGLE

Inside the room.  Marty closing her out.  Bob and Claire

talking.

First A.D. walks in, talking on a cellphone.

INT. BAR - MORNING

The bartender is looking down studying a vast book "State

Statutes of Vermont".  Doug is drinking.

First A.D. walks in.  Doc Wilson walks in.

ANGLE IN THE B.G.

We see Carla entering with bags of food and checks for bar

patrons.

ANGLE ON

Doug, looking over at Carla, with a small cast on her wrist

and her head beneath a babushka, in the lobby.

Doug looks up.

INT. CORRIDOR TAVERN MOTEL - DAY

Carla, being led by the hand, by Doug.  Following them, her

Father Jack and Cal the trooper.

They stop at a room, knock on the door.  A PAUNCHY SALESMAN

opens the door.

The Procession reverses, starts down the hall, runs into

Marty coming out of his room.

He steps back into a linen closet, takes Doug with him by the

lapels.

INT. LINEN CLOSET - HOTEL HALLWAY - DAY

He puts a cigar into Doug's pocket.

INT. HALL - CONTINUOUS

The two come out of the linen closet, Marty with his arm

around Doug.

They walk down the hall.  Before them, Claire, half-clothed,

backing out of a motel room.

The procession has reached the open door.  They look to see

whom it is Claire is addressing.  Carla looks in the door.

ANGLE CARLA'S POV

Bob Barrenger, clutching a towel to his naked self, smoking a

cigarette.

ANGLE

The group in the hall.  Carla points into the open door.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - DUSK

Cal, Bob Barrenger, Walt, Doug, Carla and Jack.

The First A.D. enters with lawbooks, marked as to page.

Marty is perusing the lawbooks.

Marty starts ushering everyone out of the room.

He ushers them out, the phone is ringing.  Walt picks it up.

INT. MAYOR'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Mayor on the phone.  Sherry in the b.g.

INT. PROD. OFFICE - CONTINUOUS

Marty exits.

Walt walks away from Bob, shaking his head.

ANGLE ON

Walt, as he walks down the stairs.

They walk by the bullpen, wherein we see P.A.s refilling

Evian bottles from a ratty old watering can.

P.A.s take us, with their Evian bottles, into Walt's office,

where we see the "Dinner with the Mayor" sign.

INT. MAYOR'S HOME - NIGHT

Twelve overdressed people, including the Postman, the

Gunstore Owner, etc. sitting, still around the Mayor's laden

dining table.  BEAT.  Sherry looks over her shoulder.

ANGLE ON

Next room, the Mayor on the phone.  Hushed.

PAUSE

Very angry, he HANGS UP and looks out the window.

ANGLE POV

The Mayor lets the shade drop, walks back to the table.

Silence.

INT. BAR - NIGHT

Doug, in his cups, at the end of the bar with the First A.D.

The bartender studies his state statutes book.

BARTENDER'S POV

Inside the book, the storyboards show the movie's heroes

copulating.

INT. MAYOR'S HOME - NIGHT

The Mayor and his wife alone at the table.  The maid emptying

trays of food, untouched, into a galvanized steel garbage

pail placed in the middle of the room.  One of the guests

leaving, putting on her coat.  Dips back into the dining room

to try to pick up a tray of pate.

She empties it into the trash.  BEAT.  The guest, chagrined,

leaves.  The Mayor, sitting and drinking booze out of a large

glass.  The phone RINGS.  BEAT.  He goes to answer it.

EXT. PRINT SHOP - DAY

A sign in the window, "Sold" is stamped over and reads "Under

Agreement."

Early summer morning.  Joe, holding a cup of coffee, looking

at the print shop.  Ann walks up.

They walk on, onto the scene of various filmfolk setting up.

EXT. STATE AND MAIN - INTERSECTION - CONTINUOUS

They push through the mass.  The street is closed off by

Police Cars.

They come upon a TV REPORTER doing a standup in front of the

firehouse where we see, in front, both the old firetruck and

state trooper cars.

ANGLE ON

Ann and Joe, as they look on.

ANGLE ON

A state trooper and Doug, as they walk through the crowd.

Marty walks up to the TV REPORTER.

The trooper, Doug, and Bob Barrenger walk up to Marty.

Doug hands the arrest warrant to Marty.

CAMERA takes the group, the trooper, Doug, Bob, in handcuffs,

Marty talking with them, through the crowd, on the back of

which we see Ann and Joe.

He motions the cop to take out Barrenger.  Marty sees Joe in

the back.

ANGLE ON

Marty, as he leads Joe down into an alleyway, and into a

backyard, hung with washing on the lines.

INT. BOOKSHOP - DAY

Ann, Joe and Marty.  Cal has followed them into the

bookstore.  He speaks privately with Ann and exits.

Joe takes the arrest warrant.  Looks at it.  Changes his

glasses.

Marty's cellphone rings and he answers it.  After a pause, he

hangs up.

He exits, leaving Walt alone with Ann and Joe.

ANGLE ON

Ann.  She sees something down the other street.  We see Cal,

the policeman, enter and start toward Joe.  We see Ann

restrain him, and speak to him in the b.g. for several

moments.  He shakes his head, and she reasons with him, and

there is a pause and he looks at Joe, and exits.

BEAT

PAUSE

Joe walks Ann off to the closed back door of "The Waterford

Players."

PAUSE

Ann picks up a copy of the old Waterford Sentinel, which was

left on the coffee table.  Ann hands the paper to Joe.

ANGLE ON

Joe, holding the paper.

ANGLE INS.

The masthead reads, "Waterford Sentinel, All the News of the

Mountains, 'You Shall Not Bear False  Witness.'"

ANGLE ON

Ann, who has also picked up the "For Sale" sign, showing the

printshop.  She stands looking at Joe.  BEAT.  Cal enters.

They look towards him.

EXT. BACKYARD OF THE BOOKSHOP - DAY

Cal walks with Joe, still holding the newspaper.  As they

round a housecorner, Walt appears and walks with Joe.

Cal takes Joe to a side door of the courthouse.

INT. SMALL COURTROOM - DAY

Joe coming in through the side entrance of the courtroom.

Various law books and dusty forms on the shelves.  Cal leads

him into the courtroom, empty, save for the court reporter,

Maude and the BAILIFF.  Cal motions Joe forward.

Judge enters.

Scott hands him a sheet of paper.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

A crowd, moving along, with the TV Reporter.

The crowd moves away, revealing Ann, standing in front of the

realtors, looking at a card in her hand.  She looks up to see

Joe coming toward her.

ANGLE ON

Extreme close up, she smiles.

ANGLE ON

Extreme close up, Joe.  He looks toward Ann, sheepishly.

ANGLE BACK ON

Ann, as she looks down at the card in her hands.

ANGLE INSERT

It is the real estate placard for the printshop, marked

"under agreement."

ANGLE ON

Ann, as she rips it up.

INT. LOBBY OF THE HOTEL - DAY

Joe, coming in, a hangdog look on his face.

Joe nods.  Continues through the lobby.

ANGLE ON

Various reporters, Scott being interviewed.

Joe walks past.

The old bellhop is packing up his lunchbox and changing into

his streetclothes.

INT. JOE'S ROOM - DAY

Joe enters and takes out his pad and pencil.  He sits on the

bed.  On the pillow, he sees and picks up a black and red

hunting jacket, onto which the one foot short sleeve has been

knitted in baby blue.  There is a card in the picket that

reads "Better than new -- it's got a story!"  He puts it

down.

He picks up his notebook, in which he has written: "The

Purpose of the Second Chance is to allow you to make the same

mistake twice."

He stops by the mirror on the chiffonier into which he puts

the lure, which still has the attached card reading "The

truth may not always set you free, but it's always the truth

- Joseph Turner White."

Joe goes to the bed.  On the bed is a small package tied with

ribbon.  Joe opens it.

ANGLE INS.

It is a small thing of maple syrup.  Attached to it is a card

reading: "It is your invention which makes everything sweet."

He takes off his jacket, and picks up his notebook.  Out of

his jacket pocket falls the old copy of the Waterford

Sentinel.

He picks it up.

ANGLE JOE'S POV

The masthead: Waterford Sentinel "The Voice of the Mountains,

You Shall Not Bear False Witness."

He puts the newspaper down.  Picks up the maple sugar card

again, and looks at it.

He sees an arrow and turns it over

ANGLE INS.

The back of the card reads: "How about an Associate Producer

credit...?"

He takes the paper, balls it up and throws them into the

trash.  He picks up the fishing lure which is resting on the

typewriter.  Puts it into his pocket, thinks again, throws it

in the trash.  Shakes his head, and picks up his suitcase and

starts packing...

EXT. ANN'S STREET - DAY

On Doc Wilson, as he walks down the street.  A little kid, on

a scooter is going in the other direction.

ANGLE ON

Joe, as he stands across from Ann's house, looking at it.  He

holds his suitcase.

Joe turns to see Doc swigging from his flask.  In the b.g.,

we see the bellhop walking.

BEAT

Doc walks off to his office.

EXT. RAILROAD STATION - DAY

Bellhop, who has walked up beside him...

The train is arriving.  The stationmaster puts out the steps

to help the people down.

An ELDERLY LOOKING JUDGE FELLOW descends from the train,

followed by the CADDY with his golf bag.

Joe looks around.

ANGLE JOE'S POV

The old bellhop walking down the tracks.

ANGLE ON

Joe, as he turns back into town.

ANGLE CLOSE UP

On the Station Master.

He smiles, and lights his cigar.

EXT. COURT HOUSE BUILDING - DAY

We see the crowd has moved down the street and the

"Courthouse" building is empty.

INT. COURT HOUSE BUILDING - DAY

Joe enters, and the camera takes him into the deserted

building, through the courtroom and, in back, he sees Ann

standing alone.  He walks back to her, through the doors

which appear to be the Judge's chambers.

ANGLE REVERSED

We show that the walls of the Courtroom are the set, and we

are back in the "Trials of the Heart" set.  Ann is sitting

there.  Reading her play by Joe White.  He looks at her for

an explanation.  Maude, the court reporter woman, is sitting

in the b.g.  Ann is knitting in pink wool.

Ann moves to embrace Joe.  They hear screaming.  They turn.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

ANGLE THEIR POV

At the end of the alleyway, in Main Street.  We see Sherry,

the Mayor's wife, leading a crowd.

ANGLE

At the mouth of the alleyway, on Main Street.  We see:

ANGLE INS.

The baseball on which is written "To Chucky from your best

friend, Bob Barrenger."

ANGLE XCU

The distorted face of Chucky, heaving the baseball.

ANGLE ON

Bob Barrenger being led through the crowd, a baseball hitting

him in the back of the head, as troopers hustle him toward

the courthouse.  In the b.g., Ann and Joe emerging in the

alleyway.

ANGLE ON

Ann and Joe, who starts to cross the street.  We see the

airport van.

They start to cross the street.  In the b.g., a little man

with a bag (HOWIE) gets out of the airport van.  Joe and Ann

walk toward the crowd at the mouth end of the high school.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR - DAY

A crowd of people, TV technicians, and a view of Doug on a TV

monitor.

ANGLE ON

Marty and Walt, standing near the monitor, looking on.

Shaking their heads.

ANGLE ON

The monitor.  Doug, seen through the monitor.

As he does so, a makeup person comes in and sponges him.

ANGLE ON

Doug, seen "live" in the next room, starting to wipe his

brow.

ANGLE ON

Marty and Walt watching Doug, as he walks down the hall.

ANGLE ON

Marty and Walt, looking on.

They look on to the preparations for the TV.

Ann and Joe push through the crowd.

HOWIE GOLD shows up holding his bag.

ANGLE INS.:

The Bag, as Marty opens it - it's full of MONEY.

INT. LAVATORY HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Doug is mopping his face up.  He looks up.  Marty is standing

there.

Marty puts the case up on the washstand.

PAUSE

INT. HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR - DAY

Ann and Joe passing through.  They stop and Joe comes up to a

State Trooper.  As we press forward the Mob begins to reverse

direction and passes back towards Joe.  Leaving the Hall

empty, save for the Judge who comes out, putting his robs

into his golf bag.

And we see Joe has moved up to the TV monitor, where we see

Doug, in the Science Lab, talking to the press, and holding

his money bag in his arms.

DISSOLVE

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

Walt on the scene, talking with the cinematographer, and the

Camera Operator, preparing the first shot.  The First A.D.

instructing the extras.

EXT. MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS

ANGLE ON

Ann.  As she, holding the placard starts to cross the street.

An old farmer smoking a pipe, driving a pick up is stopped by

a P.A. talking on a walkie.

We see that it is the "Judge" who listened to Walt's

testimony.  Ann waves to him, and proceeds to the Old

Firehouse, where they are about to make a movie...

Ann stops at the back of the crowd of onlookers.  She waves

to someone.

ANGLE ANN'S POV

It is Joe, sitting near the director, who waves back.

ANGLE ON

Ann, who is next to Cal, the policeman, now in leather jacket

and leaning on his Harley motorcycle.

ANGLE ON

The slate, which reads "The Fires Of Home."

EXT. MAIN STREET - FIRESTATION - CONTINUOUS

Where they are filming the characters in turn of the century

garb.  Bob Barrenger, dressed as a fireman, is polishing the

old fire engine.  The actor playing Doc Morton walks past.

Two nuns walk by.

ANGLE ON

Joe, sitting near the camera, looking through the script.

Reading along, mouthing the words.  He wears the plaid

jacket, one sleeve is pink, knitted.

ANGLE ON

The on-lookers.  Ann, Cal, next to her, lounging on his

motorcycle.  Grace and Maude, Spud and Morris, the Postman,

the fake Judge, who is also the man smoking the pipe in the

first sequence and is smoking a pipe now, Scott from the

hotel, etc.

ANGLE ON

Crew, and the film within the film.  We see the lively stable

across the way.  On its side are painted various ads.  Among

them, one which says: "Stefan P. Bazoomercom" and Marty is

standing next to it.  Looking on at the scene being filmed.

An A.D. brings him a cup of coffee.  The A.D. is passing out

pink bubblegum cigars, the bands of which read "It's a Girl!"

ANGLE ON

Film within the film, the group at the camera watching,

transfixed.

She walks past the "Bazoomer.com" ad.

ANGLE ON

Ann and Cal, as they talk, the firedog comes over and Ann

gives him a biscuit.  In the b.g., we see the man with the

pipe get into his pickup and drive off.  The Postman goes off

continuing his rounds.

ANGLE ON

Ann and Cal as they talk.  Next to them Morris and Spud

congratulate each other.  Next to them, we see the fake judge

and the bailiff.

ANGLE ON

Joe, as he looks over at Ann and smiles.

ANGLE ON

Ann, giving him a "thumbs up" sign as the Firedog comes and

sits next to her.  In the b.g., we see the pickup hit the

pothole and bounce.

THE END.

