A banana floats in the toilet. OSCAR LORKOWSKI, 7, smiles and

kicks the flush lever. Whoosh... the banana is sucked down

the drain. Gone.

Well, not quite. Oscar watches water fill the basin and spill

onto the floor. Oscar turns and walks out.

Oscar steps from the bathroom and walks quickly down the

empty hall.

A BUSINESSMAN removes a single shotgun shell from the glove

compartment. He drops it in his shirt pocket, sprays breath

freshener in his mouth and gets out of his car.

The businessman approaches the gun display and points to a

shotgun. An employee hands him the gun and turns his

attention to another customer.

The businessman reaches into his pocket and pulls out the

shotgun shell. Loads it. Draws the barrel up under his chin.

A Bubba pricing camouflaged vests nearby notices the

businessman. His expression shifts from concern to alarm to

horrible anticipation. He braces for the...

Police mill about and question people. CARL SWANSON, a 40ish

man sporting a crew cut and a `Above and Beyond' polo shirt,

talks to the STORE OWNER.

The owner rubs his temples.

A ABOVE AND BEYOND WORKER in a polo shirt waves his arm to

get Carl's attention.

Carl walks over to his assistant. Detective, `MAC' MACDOWELL,

approaches the owner.

Mac and another DETECTIVE walk toward the entrance.

Rose steps from the shower. She is attractive with sharp

features and eyes that hint at future crow's feet. Her

confidence has grown brittle by the gnawing fear that life

peaked as the captain of the high school cheerleading squad.

A note taped to the bathroom mirror reads: `You are strong.

You are powerful. You can do anything. You are a winner.'

Rose wipes condensation from the mirror to reveal her face.

She doesn't look like she believes it.

Norah lounges on her bed and loads weed onto a jerry-rigged

pop-can-pipe.

Norah fires up the bud, inhales deeply and passes the can to

RANDY, a good-looking redneck in his early 20's.

The phone RINGS.

Norah opens a book about sign language and starts practicing

the sign alphabet. A-B-C-D-E-F. F is a hard one.

Norah exhales. Randy stands and takes off his pants. The

phone RINGS again.

Randy lies next to Norah naked from the waist down. Norah

ignores him and continues forming letters with her fingers.

She jots a note and sticks the pencil behind her ear.

The phone RINGS again. Norah reaches across Randy and picks

up the receiver.

As Norah holds the phone her eyes slide from Randy's face to

his off screen penis. She takes the pencil from behind her

ear and, in the way you'd poke a hamster to see if it is dead

or merely sleeping, prods Randy's off screen penis.

Joe sits in the living room, busily putting stickers on cans         *

of Fancy Corn. Norah and Randy enter from Norah's room.              *

Norah leaves. Randy and Joe share an awkward silence.                *

They put stickers on popcorn cans.                                     *

Randy pulls up to a small house and stops. Norah gets out,

collects the canister from back and heads inside.

Norah enters the tidy two bedroom house with a barrel of

Fancy Corn under her arm.

Oscar runs from the bedroom and flings himself onto Norah.

Pale and skinny, Oscar is the kind of kid easily picked off

in slaughter-ball.

Norah and Oscar both jam a handful into their mouths.

Rose finds her purse and quickly puts on lipstick. She leans

down and gives Oscar a kiss on the forehead.

She turns to Norah.

Rose lies on her back being fucked. Her head nearly hits the

headboard with each thrust.

Rose closes her eyes. Her head starts to thump the headboard.

Mac comes.

Oscar and Norah lie in Oscar's little bed. Oscar holds the

covers tight under his chin. Norah drinks a beer. There's a

half eaten canister of `Fancy Corn' between them.

Oscar nods.

Norah looks at Oscar.

Norah downs the last swig of beer and sets the bottle down

next to another empty.

Curtains drawn in the cheap hotel room. Rose gets out of bed

and pulls on her clothes. Mac watches for a moment, then

rolls out of bed. He stops. Grimaces.

Mac shakes his head and pretends not to be.

Mac limps over to his clothes hanging over a chair.

Rose smiles and Mac pretends to be offended.

Mac shrugs and steps into his slacks.

Rose peels the backing off a nicotine patch and carefully

sticks it on her arm.

Rose slips on her blouse looks at Mac.

Rose steps toward him and eyes Mac as he buttons her blouse.

Rose rubs the nicotine patch on her arm. Mac nods and smiles.

Norah holds a lit joint out the window and watches a cheesy

TV movie circa 1982. Big hair and leg warmers. Norah leans

out the window and exhales, takes another toke.

The sound of a key at the door prompts Norah to quickly stub

out the joint and close the window. Rose opens the door.

Rose looks at Oscar sprawled out asleep on the couch.

Rose fumbles in her purse and pulls out a ten-dollar bill.

Norah makes a face like `great, here it comes.'

Norah waves her hand dismissively.

Norah takes the ten. Rose looks at the TV.

Rose looks at Norah.

Norah smiles and opens the door to leave.

Rose wraps the vacuum cleaner cord while another MOLLY MAID

wipes down the last window.

Through the window, a smartly dressed pregnant woman walks

toward the house with shopping bags in hand.

Rose nods and heads downstairs.

PAULA DATZMAN-MEAD sets her bags down on the table and fishes

a checkbook from her purse. Rose enters with the vacuum

cleaner in tow.

Startled, Rose looks the woman in the eye for the first time.

Recognition punches Rose in the face.

Awkward silence.

Paula pats her swollen belly and Rose forces a smile.

Paula gets a piece of paper and a pen and hands it to Rose.

Rose writes her number and address on the scrap of paper.

Woops. Paula immediately regrets the question.

Paula pulls a business card from her purse and hands it to

Rose. The card has a picture of Paula's smiling face.

Paula nods. Uncomfortable.

They grasp for something to say. They fail.

Rose caries a vacuum cleaner and bucket of cleaning supplies

out to a rusted Nissan Sentra with a Molly Maid door magnet.

She throws the vacuum and bucket in the back hatch, starts to

close it, then stops.

Rose walks to the side of the car, peels off the Molly Maid

magnet and throws that in as well. She looks at the Datzman-

Mead house with a mixture of resentment and shame.

She gets into the car and cries. Her cell phone rings. She

digs the phone out of her bag and tries to steady her voice.

Oscar sits outside the counselor's office on a bench. He

cranes his neck to watch the secretary typing forms.

Rose sits nervously across from the school COUNSELOR, a

serious man in his mid forties and a TEACHER with cotton

candy hair. The man speaks first.

Rose shifts her eyes from the counselor to the teacher and

back to the counselor.

Rose bites a fingernail.

Rose looks confused.

Rose looks even more confused.

The secretary stops typing and offers a sympathetic glance to

Oscar. He capitalizes on the moment by licking the wall.

The secretary recoils and returns to her typing.

The counselor leans forward with genuine concern.

Oscar finds Joe asleep on the Lazy Boy. He snores in that

scary sleep apnea way  holding his breath between snores.

Oscar notices a leather strap hanging down from the top shelf

of a book case. He pulls up a chair to investigate.

The strap leads to an old pair of binoculars. Behind it,

dusty books about birds. Oscar grabs the binoculars and

climbs down.

Oscar holds the binoculars to his face but the lenses are too

far apart. Oscar compensates by closing one eye and looking

through only one lens. He focuses on his grandpa's nose hair.

Joe wakes.

Oscar points to the book shelf. Something sad stirs in Joe.

Oscar steps closer. Joe twists something on the binoculars

and pushes the lenses closer together to accommodate Oscar's

small face. Better.

Oscar walks around the room examining various objects and

clunks them against a lamp in the process.

Joe holds out his hand to retrieve the binoculars.

Oscar doesn't want to. He hesitates. Joe raises an eyebrow.

Oscar shuffles back to his grampa and hands them over.

Oscar's disappointed.

Joe studies the binoculars for a moment and then sets them

back on the shelf.

Rose shakes her head and hands Norah another dish.

Rose turns and sees her dad leaning in the door way.

Yes, that's it.

The staff sings a BIRTHDAY SONG at a table nearby.

Oscar's eyes light up as he smiles at Joe.

Rose gives Joe a sharp look.

A large bellied SUPERINTENDENT leads Rose and Norah up a

flight of stairs. Beads of sweat drip from his doughy face.

Norah shoots Rose a look. Rose doesn't answer. They arrive at

the door of the apartment. The super unlocks the door.

Rose and Norah step into the apartment littered with dirty

dishes and clothes.

Rose walks down the hall while Norah examines a plastic bird

with top hat. It tips down and drinks from the glass.

Norah and Rose stand frozen at the threshold. They are awe

struck by the horrible scene in front of them.

Blooms of splattered blood dry on tile walls. It gathers in

sticky brown lines around grout. The mirror is broken. The

shower curtain hangs half torn.

Hands pull on yellow cleaning gloves.

Pinkish foam slides down Norah's glove as she scrubs bloody

grout with a toothbrush.

Metal shower rings CLINK against the metal bar as Rose pulls

down the shower curtain.

A rag is wrung out in a bucket of reddish water.

Rose and Norah clean in silence. Reverent but detached. The

way you would act at a stranger's funeral.

Norah puts blood spattered towels into a washing machine.

She spots a dish on the dryer filled with pennies and buttons

and other odds and ends. She fishes out a PINK CANDY HEART.

It reads, `Luv U 4 ever'.

Norah pockets the candy.

Rose and Norah gather their cleaning supplies and stand back

to admire their handiwork.

Norah hangs back while the super hands Rose a check.

As Rose turns to leave she flashes the check to Norah. Five

hundred bucks. Rose raises an eyebrow. Cha-ching.

Joe walks though a low rent part of town carrying a barrel of

Fancy Corn. He ducks into the neighborhood bar.

Joe enters a dingy little corner bar where everyone's a

regular. A couple of old guys slump over the bar. The

BARTENDER smiles.

Joe hands the canister to the bartender and sits down on a

stool. The bartender pours him a beer.

Joe nods. A grizzled REGULAR nearby looks over at Joe.

Joe shakes his head.

The bartender sets a basket of cheddar popcorn in the space

between Joe and the grizzled regular.

The regular scoops up a handful of powdery orange popcorn.

Joe looks at him with renewed interest.

The grizzled man licks orange powder from his fingers.

Regular shrugs. Joe's wheels are turning.

Joe takes a drink of his beer while he mulls it over.

Another day in paradise.

Norah sleeps in her clothes and makeup from the previous

night. Knocking wakes her.

With great effort Norah picks up the receiver.

Rose's Nissan rolls down a rough looking Albuquerque street

toward a trailer park.

Rose sips her 7-11 coffee. Norah stares blank and blood-shot.

Norah shakes her head in frustration.

Rose turns into the trailer park, heads past a row of

trailers, and parks.

Rose and Norah get out of the car and approach a particularly

run down trailer.

Rose and Norah open the door and the rancid sweet smell of

decayed flesh splashes them in the face. They lift their T-

shirts up over their noses and walk inside.

Old newspapers stacked to the ceiling. Piles of trash lean

like snowdrifts against the wall. Cat food encrusted plates.

Norah opens the bedroom door and peeks in. Flies BUZZ. She

darts to another room and retches.

Rose walks into the bedroom, blanches and stifles a gag

reflex. Norah storms past Rose and out the door.

Rose chases after Norah and grabs her arm.

Norah shakes off Rose and walks down the row of trailers.

Rose and Norah lift the mattress and drag it to the door.

Rose and Norah struggle to transport the stinking mattress to

the dumpster. It is a clumsy process. The thing tips and

falls on Norah.

Tucked inside a mall, the candy store does brisk business.

Pimple-faced clerks ring up clumps of overweight families.

Oscar pretends to look at hard candies while he listens to

Joe and the MANAGER.

Oscar spots a GIRL perusing wax lips. She looks to be about

five or six. Joe ignores the manager and reads ingredients

off a Twizzler package.

Joe spins a can of Fancy Corn around and points to the

ingredients.

The manager leans close.

The manager's not buying it. Oscar takes action. He positions

himself next to the girl.

The girl looks at him suspiciously.

She looks back to the lips and tries to ignore Oscar.

The girl gives Oscar a long stare.

The girl watches him for a moment and then walks over and

tugs her mother's shirt.

Just then, the GIRL'S MOTHER walks up to the manager.

Joe looks at Oscar. Oscar smiles.

Much progress has been made on the trailer. Rose and Norah

work on the last remaining piles of trash.

Rose tosses a tattered fanny pack onto the heap in the

garbage can. Norah plucks it out and opens it.

Norah pulls out a PHOTO ID. She holds it up. The woman on the

ID looks street-worn and crazy.

Rose sweeps. Norah digs deeper into the fanny pack and pulls

out a small packet wrapped in satin ribbon.

Norah unties the ribbon and finds a stack of old school

photos. Each photo is of a different grade. Norah flips

through the stack and the girl appears to grow up.

Norah holds the senior photo next to the ID. The resemblance

between the two is clear.

Rose looks. Shrugs.

Rose picks up a bag stuffed with cans and fast food wrappers.

She screams and drops the bag. A giant ball of maggots

writhes at her feet.

Norah grabs the dust pan and hands it to Rose.

Norah looks closely at the I.D. as Rose deposits trash and

maggots into the garbage bin. The comparison angers Rose.

Norah thinks about that and looks back at the I.D.

Joe and Oscar roll a handcart strapped with Fancy Corn

canisters through the parking lot to the car.

Weeds grow in the yard of the small house.

Norah empties the contents of the fanny pack onto her bed.

She examines the photos and picks up what appears to be a

senior photo. She turns it over and sees, written on the

back, LYNN WISEMAN - 1998.

Rose's Sentra is again parked next to the blue Camry.

Same room as before. Same curtains drawn. Mac unzips Rose's

skirt and kisses her neck.

Mac's in the sex zone. He unbuttons his shirt and tunes out

all those distracting words tumbling from Rose's mouth.

Rose, animated, slips her skirt off and tosses it aside.

Mac's shoes hit the floor with a thud. He sets his belt and

gun on the dresser.

Rose pulls her shirt over her head. Mac kisses her belly.

Mac pulls off his pants. Rose hangs her bra on the back of

the chair and slips off her undies.

Her sense of pride wilts. Her hand instinctively reaches up

to massage the nicotine patch on her arm.

Rose looks at Mac. Shrugs. Mac smiles.

Rose smiles. Apparently it's some private joke.

The phrase seems to send a ripple of pleasure through Mac.

Mac reacts to each word as if it were some filthy sex talk.

He looks at Rose and raises an eyebrow.

Rose rolls her eyes and laughs.

She smiles and shakes her head. Mac waits. Rose relents.

Mac growls and pounces on Rose. It's fun and light. Rose

laughs while Mac makes a show of mauling her neck.

He falls on the bed and reaches out. Rose takes his hand.

It's rough against hers. There's a circular indentation where

his wedding ring isn't.

Rose stops laughing. She touches the invisible ring.

Mac looks up. Buzz kill. The residue of a smile fades.

He takes a step back.

Rose turns around and kisses Mac. One of those soft, teasing

kisses that ends with a look that kicks things in gear.

Rose pulls her car up to one of many warehouses in the area

and double checks the address on a scrap of paper.

Rose and Norah enter this no frills operation. Cinder block

walls and concrete floors. A small TV on the front counter

offers up a not-so-classic afternoon movie line up.

As they approach, the clerk drops out of sight behind the

counter. Rose leans over to see the clerk on his knees

searching for something small and lost.

WINSTON, 35, crudely handsome with dark unkempt hair and full

lips, looks up.

Rose sticks out her right hand.

Winston stands to reveal he is missing his right arm. He

clumsily shakes her hand with his left.

On the TV, a waitress enters the frame. Rose stops. She and

Norah both turn and look at the TV.

The waitress pours coffee and exits the frame without a word.

Rose and Norah turn back to Winston. Rose continues.

Rose looks at Norah and nods.

Rose smiles a little too enthusiastically.

Winston motions them to follow him through the store. He

indicates points of interest with a flat monotone voice.

The tour ends at the back corner where respirators, safety

glasses, gloves and Tyvec coveralls crowd the shelves.

The door BEEPS as it opens. CARL SWANSON walks in wearing his

`Above and Beyond' polo shirt. Winston returns to the

counter.

Carl grabs a case of disinfectant and sets it on the counter.

Winston pulls out some paperwork.

Winston shakes his head.

Rose and Norah make their way to the counter with arms full

of supplies and stand within earshot of Carl and Winston.

Norah nudges Rose. Carl pays and Rose and Norah watch him

leave. They step up and set their supplies on the counter.

As Winston rings them up, Rose notices the shellacked puzzle

picture of a big white cat on the wall.

Rose flashes a `captain of the cheerleading squad' smile.

Winston looks squarely at Rose and steps into the back room.

Winston returns with several books and pamphlets. Hazmat

Guidelines, Biohazard Recovery and Disposal, etc.

Rose drives while Norah scans one of the books.

Rose processes the visit.

Norah looks out the window.

Rose looks confused but pulls over.

Norah opens the door and slides out.

Rose smiles uncomfortably.

Norah shakes her head in disgust.

Rose clenches her jaw and picks at a crack in the steering

wheel. Norah gets out of the car.

Norah slams the door and watches Rose drive off.

Norah stands at the door well and scans the apartment number

listings. She sees the name she's looking for, LYNN WISEMAN.

Just then, LYNN, the woman from the photos, opens the door

and walks past. Caught off guard, Norah follows her.

They walk several blocks, Norah keeping a safe distance

behind Lynn.

Lynn opens the door to the building and disappears inside.

Norah follows.

Lynn steps into an elevator. Norah does too.

The doors close. Lynn slaps the `stop elevator' button.

Norah emits a small yelp.

Lynn freezes for a moment. It seems she isn't even breathing.

Her anger twists into fear.

Norah remains silent. Lynn paces back and forth.

Norah is uncomfortable. Lynn spins around to face Norah.

Lynn steps closer.

Lynn smiles. Norah releases the stop button. Nothing happens.

Lynn shrugs. Norah presses the alarm button. There's a loud

quick ring. They wait for something to happen.

An awkward silence hangs in the air. Norah gives it another

quick punch for good measure. Smiles. They look at the

ceiling. They look at the floor. Norah makes little noises.

Norah takes out her sign language book. She steals a quick

sideways look at Lynn before settling on the series of small,

illustrated hands before her.

Lynn leans close and checks out the book.

Lynn sizes Norah up.

Norah nods.

Norah offers a sad nod.

A KNOCKING sound reverberates through the elevator.

Lynn takes a long bold look at Norah. Norah sweats. The

elevator moves.

Lynn lightly touches the crook of Norah's arm.

Norah smiles self consciously. She's flustered. Not a

familiar sensation. The doors open to the "Albuquerque Blood

Services."

Lynn steps off the elevator and grabs a white coat from a

rack. She glances back with a smile just as the doors close.

The house is dark except for a TV in the living room and a

light in Norah's bedroom window.

Norah pulls the photos from her bag and sets them on a shelf

next to the candy heart. Then, she drops to the floor and

pulls the LUNCH BOX from under her bed.

She surveys the contents: lipstick tipped cigarette butts, an

eyelash curler, a Blue Jay feather, an old photo.

In the photo two girls, twelve and five, stand with their

mom. A cigarette dangles from the mother's ruby red mouth.

This time Rose's Sentra sits alone. No blue Camry in sight.

Rose lies in bed and listens to cars go by on the highway.

She checks her watch, picks up the phone and dials.

Rose hangs up and falls back onto the bed, feet dangling off

the edge. She stares at the ceiling and whispers.

Rose hands Winston a canister of Fancy Corn and a business

card. Rays of the sun dart off the edges of the card in a

style of a child's drawing. It reads, "Sunshine Cleaning."

Oscar stares at Winston's empty sleeve.

Rose hands Winston a stack of cards. He places them in an owl

business card holder in front of several Clean Sweep business

cards.

Oscar plays with an extraction cleaner and accidently turns

it on. Winston gives him a nod that indicates that he should

turn it off. He does.

Oscar walks into the back room.

The room is jammed with model planes, cars and boats in

various stages of construction. A hobbyist's fantasy land.

Oscar's mouth drops open.

Winston puffs up a bit with `manly know how'.

Winston smiles.

Rose, Norah, Oscar and Joe follow SHERM LAWSON across the car

lot. Rose shoots an irritated look to her dad.

Joe positions himself next to Rose.

The troop comes to a stop in front of a large blue van.

Sherm opens the back doors. Rose, Joe and Sherm stick their

heads inside. Rose nods.

Rose surveys the interior space.

Sherm walks around and unlocks the driver's side door.

Rose approaches Sherm with a smile.

Sherm smiles.

Joe nods.

Oscar crawls into the passenger seat for a closer look. He

sees the CB mounted on the ceiling and tugs Norah's sleeve.

Sherm grabs the handset to demonstrate.

Sherm tosses the keys to Rose.

Rose, Norah and Oscar pile into the van. Joe hangs back with

Sherm.

The Econo van rumbles by.

Rose drives. Norah sits shotgun and sings the baseline to a

70s era porno. Oscar kneels between them staring at the CB.

Rose reaches up and clicks the CB on. Nothing but static. She

adjusts the frequency dial until she lands on the faintest

hint of a voice buried beneath the crush of static.

Oscar's face lights up with amazement. Rose is under-whelmed.

She clicks the CB off.

Norah points out the window.

Rose pays for three soft serve cones and makes her way to the

picnic table where Norah and Oscar wait.

Norah points to an `apartment for rent' sign on the building

across the street. A big bosomed woman sits on the porch with

a rabbit in her lap.

Rose distributes the melty goods.

Norah assesses the building. The RABBIT LADY sees them

staring. She waves. Rose and Norah turn around amused.

As Norah thinks about a possible move glistening rivulets of

chocolate ice cream drip down Oscar's cone, over his hand and

on to Norah's leg.

Norah demonstrates proper technique. She extends her tongue

out to the bottom edge of the dripping glob, then twirls the

cone to lick away the troublesome chocolate.

Norah looks up to see Lynn with a milk shake in hand. An

involuntary smile breaks across Norah.

Lynn looks at Rose. An awkward moment passes.

Rose smiles, nods a hi. Something familiar about the girl

nags at Rose. She searches to connect a face out of context.

Lynn eyes Norah. Chemistry.

Rose makes the connection - her smile drops. Lynn picks up on

the tension between the two.

Lynn leaves. Rose slaps Norah with an accusing look.

Joe stands with Sherm and waits for the girls to return. He

looks at his watch.

Sherm smiles. Joe's smile disappears.

Touche. Sherm's smile dissolves.

Joe holds out for more.

Joe smiles.

Rose, Norah and Oscar walk back to the van. Everyone's

slightly stickier. Rose clenches her jaw.

EVENING

Joe sits in his Lazy Boy as Norah hauls a box from her room.

Joe strains to be cavalier but he can't look at Norah.

A marquee welcomes the conference attendees.

Rose sits on a folding chair and takes notes. The thirty or

so people listening to the SPEAKER appear to be mostly

hospital staff and EMT workers. A placard near the door

reads: SEMINAR FOR BLOOD BORNE PATHOGENS.

CARL SWANSON leans forward from his chair and looks down the

row to Rose.

Rose stands by a display of medical waste pamphlets and

munches on a sandwich. As she takes a bite, Carl walks up.

Flustered, Rose brushes crumbs off her face and inadvertently

deposits a blob of mustard on her cheek. They shake hands.

Carl smiles, dips a napkin in his cup of water and wipes the

smudge of mustard from Rose's cheek.

Attendees file back to their chairs.

Rose and Carl sit at the bar nursing drinks.

Rose chews on her cocktail straw.

Rose stops. Reflects. Turns to Carl.

Carl offers a knowing nod.

Rose laughs and takes another sip of her drink.

The door to the bathroom is open. Carl hums a happy tune in

the shower.

Rose shimmies back into her clothes with an expression of

self-loathing.

Rose drives and Norah holds a long list of funeral homes and

other establishments. They're all crossed off. Oscar sits

bored in the back.

Rose looks at Norah with concern.

Rose has no idea how to respond. Norah turns to face Oscar.

Oscar looks to Rose and then back to Norah.

Rose's phone rings. She answers it, relieved for the

distraction

Rose grabs a pen, hands it to Norah and motions for her to

write something down.

Rose hangs up.

Rose pulls the van up to the house and sees the old lady

sitting out front. MRS. DAVIS.

Rose and Norah exchange a look and then Rose turns to Oscar.

Oscar shakes his head.

As Rose and Norah get out and unload supplies the old lady

stands to greet them. She's dressed up in the way old ladies

are when they expect company.

The woman nods. She is dazed with grief.

The old woman holds out a shaky hand. Rose gently takes the

keys. Norah hangs back.

She blinks twice, slowly, then snaps back.

Rose and Norah gather their things and head up the stairs.

Rose hands Norah the key and motions for her to go ahead.

Rose sits down on the steps with Mrs. Davis and Norah quietly

enters the house.

From the van Oscar watches Rose and the old woman sit side by

side on the front step. Rose's hand rests lightly on the

woman's bony shoulder. Words seem useless.

Norah looks around the room furnished modestly with a mixture

of antiques and things that are simply old.

Yellow sticky notes cling to doors, walls, light switches,

etc. Each note contains a simple instruction such as `turn

off light' or `watch news at 6:00'.

Norah walks past family photos that line the hall.

Norah enters the red splattered room. A walker lies on its

side next to a blood-soaked rug. Golden sunlight pours

through the windows.

A yellow square sticks to a picture frame on the coffee

table. The frame holds the image of a smiling young couple in

a different era. The note reads `Edna plays bridge at 4:00'.

Norah slips a Tyvec jumper on and looks out the window. A car

pull up to the curb. Norah stops and watches her sister walk

Mrs. Davis to the car before starting her work.

Rose enters quietly, in a fog. The stillness of grief is

contagious.

Rose nods and picks up the photo of a younger Mr and Mrs

Davis. She then steps into her Tyvec coveralls and zips up.

Norah drives. Rose holds Oscar in her lap, arms clasped tight

around him.

Oscar thinks about this a moment.

Rose nods.

Rose looks confused. Oscar presses on.

Rose smiles. Doesn't seem like the moment to correct him.

They ride the rest of the way home in silence.

Joe's Monte Carlo sits out front.

Oscar and Joe scratch game cards.

Oscar hands the ticket over.

Oscar looks at the Lucky Dog card with defeat.

Oscar moves on to his next ticket. He scratches the coating

away and tentatively lifts his game card

Joe looks at the card. He looks at Oscar and grins.

Oscar follows his grampa over to the pay phone.

Joe plunks in some quarters, dials, waits while it rings.

Oscar nods and sips his Coke.

Rose pays bills at the kitchen table. Oscar bounces a super

ball.

Oscar races out of the kitchen and then races back in with a

pamphlet showcasing the amazingly sleek SP250 binoculars. He

hands the pamphlet to Rose.

Rose pulls out a chair for Oscar. Oscar sits down and crosses

his arms in front of himself.

Rose goes back to the bills.

Lynn wears a white coat. Norah sits in one of the reclining

chairs scattered about the room.

Norah smiles and shakes her head.

Norah watches Lynn's hands push up her sleeve. Lynn rubs

iodine in expanding circles on the inside of Norah's arm.

Lynn puts plastic gloves on and ties a tourniquet around

Norah's arm. She puts a rubber ball in Norah's hand.

Norah squeezes the ball and Lynn touches the plump vein.

Lynn takes the needle and draws it close to Norah's arm.

Norah looks nervous. Lynn smiles reassuringly.

Norah squeezes, Lynn touches the soft blue stripe of blood

beneath Norah's skin and slides the needle into the vein.

Lynn smiles.

Norah self-consciously nods and smiles. Lynn turns and

jostles the bag of blood.

Lynn switches her attention from the blood back to Norah.

Music and party-goers spill from the student ghetto house.

Norah and Lynn sit on a ratty couch in a crowded smoke filled

room. Next to them, a flannel wearing burn-out rocks to

headphones. Norah wears a candy necklace. Debauchery plays

out around them.

Norah takes a tug on the joint and passes it to Lynn.

Norah nods and passes the joint across Lynn to the burn-out.

The burn-out tugs and passes it back to Lynn. Lynn waves it

off a second time.

Lynn shakes her head.

Norah stares at Lynn with great blood-shot concentration.

Two women gnaw at Randy's neck. His necklace is almost empty.

Lynn lightly tugs on Norah's candy necklace. She leans in

close and takes a bite of the candy. Norah catches her

breath. Paralyzed.

Lynn smiles, pleased by Norah's reaction.

