Slater gets his flashlight and points it out the window.

Michaels and Slater start making light saber noises and

pretend to fight with their flashlights.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS

We see the COP CAR going down the street. Evan and Seth are a

block down, shoving each other.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

Slater turns and points his flashlight out Michaels window,

accidentally shining the light into his eyes.

He jerks the wheel.

EXT. SIDEWALK - CONTINUOUS

Seth swings at Evan with the giant detergent jug. Evan dodges

it and shoves Seth hard. Seth stumbles onto the road and gets

HIT by the COP CAR!!! Seth flies up onto the hood, SMASHING

the windshield. The car screeches to a halt and Seth slides

off the front of the car.

Seth lies motionless, still holding one of the detergent

jugs. The cap is knocked loose and beer is spilling all over

the place.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

Everyone in the car is looking forward, stunned. They can't

see out the front window, as it is shattered. Fogell has no

clue who the victim was.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS

The cops get out of the car and walk over to a now sitting up

Seth. He's dazed, but okay.

The boys notice the cops.

Evan looks like he's about to shit himself. The cops notice

one of the detergent jugs in the middle of a puddle of beer.

Slater dips his finger in rubs it against his gums like it

was cocaine.

The cops look at each other, then at the boys.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

Fogell anxiously sits in the cop car. He can't see what's

going on through the shattered windshield.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS

The cops turn away and start to whisper to one another. Seth

and Evan look on, nervous.

The cops nod to each other. Michaels goes back to the car and

gets in. Slater walks back over to the boys. He puts his hand

on his gun and pulls out his club, scaring the shit out of

Evan and Seth.

Evan and Seth lie down on their stomachs and spread their

arms and legs out, terrified.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

Officer Michaels is sitting in the driver's seat.

Michaels looks back at the Homeless Guy, who looks a little

bit more awake than before.

The guy starts to open his eyes a little. Michaels grabs the

guy's face and slams it back, knocking him out again. Fogell

jumps a little.

Officer Michaels takes out two cigarettes, and gives one to

Fogell, who accepts, quivering in fear. Michaels lights his,

then passes the lighter to Fogell.

Fogell tries to light his cigarette. It takes a few tries and

he starts hacking after the first pull.

Fogell continues to painfully suck back on the cigarette.

Fogell nods his head, getting some of his cigarette smoke in

his eyes. He winces and starts to blink in discomfort.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS

Slater stands above the boys.

Seth nods. Officer Michaels and Fogell get out of the car.

Seth and Evan see Fogell and stare in shock as he takes a

drag of a cigarette and then flicks it aside.

Michaels pulls Slater aside and mumbles into his ear. Fogell

turns and sees Seth and Evan - he's completely dumbfounded!

Evan starts to look really nervous, like he might literally

explode. He starts to stand up.

The cops are still talking when suddenly, Evan BOLTS!

The cops run after Evan! Seth and Fogell look at each other.

Seth grabs the remaining detergent jug and runs off in the

opposite direction of Evan! Fogell reaches into the cop car,

grabs the bags of booze, and follows Seth.

Officer Slater looks back to see Seth and Fogell running.

The cops run back into their car.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

They can't see out of the shattered windshield.

EXT. STREET WITH COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

The cops get out of the car and   run off after Seth and

Fogell. As they run, we see the   Homeless Guy slump out of the

car, landing on his face with a   muffled groan. He stands up,

grabs the jug of detergent that   was left on the ground, and

runs off.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET - CONTINUOUS

Fogell and an exhausted Seth are running together. Seth grabs

Fogell and takes him around a house and towards a backyard. A

second later, the cops run by the house and continue up the

block.

EXT. BACK YARD - MOMENTS LATER

Seth and Fogell sprint across a big, dark backyard. Seth

looks back to see if they are being followed...BOOM!

He runs smack into a little red tent and trips onto it! KIDS

inside the tent start screaming as flashlights turn on.

Fogell helps Seth get up. They try to run, but Seth is caught

on the tent! He drags it a couple feet as the kids start

clawing to get out.

The zipper opens and a KID hops out. The Kid looks at Seth.

A little GIRL runs out and books it into the house. From

inside the tent, another kid starts kicking at Seth.

Seth manages to free himself from the tent and he and Fogell

fall to the ground. The kids continue to scream.

The guys turn and see a crazed, slightly overweight FATHER in

his underwear running at them with a baseball bat. Fogell and

Seth scramble to their feet as the Dad takes a swing at them,

narrowly missing them.

Fogell throws his shoulder into the guy, knocking him down.

Seth and Fogell run to the backyard gate and try to open it.

They can't.

Fogell starts banging as Seth looks back to see the Dad

coming for them. Seth swings the detergent jug at the Father,

knocking him on his ass. He quickly gets up and charges,

enraged.

Fogell gets the door open and the two boys run into the

alley.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

They sprint down the alley. Seth coughs and wheezes, slowing

down as he lugs the detergent. The Father enters the alley

and sees the boys running. He throws his baseball bat. It

sails through the air and nails Seth in the back! He falls.

He gets up and the keeps running.

EXT. STREET CORNER - CONTINUOUS

Slater and Michaels, completely out of breath, desperately

scan the area for the boys.

EXT. INSIDE SOME BUSHES - CONTINUOUS

Evan is nestled inside a large bush, frantically trying to

reverse his clothes so as to disguise himself. He keeps

looking out for the cops, when suddenly he hears a gunshot -

BLAM!!!

As he fumbles to turn his jacket inside out and get it on, he

sees Seth and Fogell running towards him. He pops out of the

bush, scaring Fogell and Seth.

Ahh!                              Jesus!

They all run off down the street.

EXT MAIN STREET

They turn a corner at the end of the block and continue

running.

They turn onto a main street and are exuberant at the sight

of an oncoming bus. It stops at a nearby stop. They haul ass

and make it on.

INT. BUS - CONTINUOUS

Out of breath, the boys dig up change and put it in the toll

box, then walk towards the back of the bus.

Fogell looks up and sees the Homeless Guy stumbling towards

them, sucking back the bottom of the lost detergent bottle.

The Homeless Guy sees they have bags full of booze.

The Homeless Nutcase reaches for the booze. Seth steps in

front of him.

The guy shoves Seth aside and dives at Fogell.

WE GO INTO VERY SLOW MOTION:

- Helen's bottle of Goldschlager gets knocked from the bag.

It VERY SLOWLY falls towards the ground.

- Seth reaches for it, but doesn't quite grab it.

- WE LOUDLY HEAR the bottle as it slams against the bus

floor...but doesn't break! It slowly rises back up into the

air and begins sailing towards the front of the bus.

- Evan LEAPS through the air, sailing towards the precious

Goldschlager with his arms extended.

- He is inches away from grabbing it, when it suddenly

smashes into a pole, SHATTERING, sending little gold flakes

everywhere.

BACK TO NORMAL.

The Homeless Guy sees the gold flakes.

He starts frantically picking up the flakes as Evan stares at

the remains, shocked. Fogell walks over.

The boys look at each other terrified, and get off the bus.

EXT. BUS - CONTINUOUS

Seth and Evan are looking at one another coldly as the bus

pulls away. Fogell looks at some nearby street signs.

EXT. STREET NEAR JULES' PARTY - A LITTLE LATER

The are walking up the street as Evan puts his clothes back

on right-side out.

EXT. JULES' PARTY - MOMENTS LATER

The guys walk up the front steps of Jules' house. They stand

in front of the door.

Evan stares Fogell down.

Seth just goes into the house with the booze, leaving Fogell

and Evan.

INT. JULES' HOUSE - KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The party is in full swing. There is loud music blaring and

nearly a hundred people talking, dancing, and smoking.

Everyone turns around and sees the Seth holding all the

liquor.

Everyone starts cheering! Seth sets it out on the kitchen

table; it is an impressive array of inebriates.

In the background, we see Evan and Fogell wander into the

party as Jules approaches Seth.

Jules walks off.

INT. JULES' KITCHEN   - MOMENTS LATER

Tons of kids pour themselves drinks. Seth and about six other

kids all have overflowing shots of Jaeger.

Everyone drinks and recoils from the taste. A random guy

refills everyone's shot glasses.

They all drink.

Everyone laughs as Seth, very pleased with himself, starts

refilling shot glasses.

EXT. JULES BACKPORCH - CONTINUOUS

Evan walks out onto the back porch, looking for Helen. He

sees Becca.

Evan looks over and sees Helen standing on the balcony with a

big group of people. He gets really nervous.

Evan looks at Helen and takes a deep breath.

INT. JULES BATHROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Evan enters the bathroom and slams the door shut, a bottle of

Ouzo in one hand and a beer in the other. He looks at himself

in the mirror, seeming as though he's on the verge of a full-

on panic attack.

He opens the Ouzo and smells it, recoiling in disgust.

Evan takes a mighty swig, then gags and spits it out,

spraying it everywhere.

INT. JULES' DEN/ DINING ROOM- CONTINUOUS

Fogell sits bored in front of the TV, drinking a beer. He

watches a bunch of girls flirt with some boys. Everyone is

talking and laughing while he sits alone.

He walks over to the doorway of a room filled with girls

dancing. In the corner dancing is Nicola. He stares at her

for a moment, then goes back and sits in front of the TV.

He changes the channel and "COPS" comes on the screen. It

shows two cops chasing a crack head, tackling him and knee

dropping him. Fogell ponders as he watches "COPS." He throws

back the rest of his beer and marches into the room Nicola is

dancing in.

He walks up to Nicola, who is by far the best-looking girl in

the room, and starts dancing with her. She looks a bit thrown

at first, but after a few beats, she seems to like it.

They continue dancing.

I/E. JULE'S KITCHEN/BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

MONTAGE INTERCUTTING SETH AND EVAN DRINKING:

INT. JULES KITCHEN

- Seth taking shot after shot in the kitchen with everyone

else, glancing over at Jules every now and then as she walks

around the party, sending more people to drink with him.

INT. JULES BATHROOM

- Evan in the bathroom, forcing himself to brutally suck back

a disgusting amount of Ouzo. He sips from his beer, takes a

deep breath, and then starts again.

INT. JULES HOUSE

- Seth dances jokingly with a few people and tells the story

of that evening, showing them the detergent jug full of beer

and acting out the car hitting him.

INT. JULES BATHROOM

- Evan, who has drank about half the bottle and is pretty

drunk, stands up, arms reached out, and tries to walk in a

straight line. He does it fairly well. Frustrated, he sits

back down and takes another disgusting swig of Ouzo.

INT. JULES HOUSE

- Jules throws Seth a smile when she sees him making everyone

laugh as he re-fills their cups with very foamy, slightly

blue-tinted beer from the detergent jug.

INT. JULES BATHROOM

- Evan can't keep his balance as he tries to touch his nose

while standing on one foot. He's drunk. He drinks from the

tap thirstily, eats some toothpaste, fixes his collar and

hair, and then gathers his courage, takes a deep breath, and

steps out of the bathroom.

EXT. BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Evan walks out on the balcony. He spots the circle of people

Helen was standing in, only now Helen is laying on the

ground, laughing hysterically. Everyone in the circle is

looking at her and laughing as well. Evan is extremely

nervous. Helen looks up and spots him.

Evan takes a deep breath walks up to where she's laying. She

extends her arms.

Evan notices that she seems a little drunk. He helps her up

and she collapses onto him, forcing him to hold her up.

Helen laughs hysterically as she latches onto Evan. He smells

her breath. It reeks of alcohol.

Evan's drunk, but Helen is completely fucking shit-faced!

The group looks over to Evan.

Helen starts laughing hysterically.

The group chuckles a little. Helen puts her arms around Evan.

Helen picks up a bottle of tequila and shoves it into Evan's

hand.

Evan takes a much-unwanted drink and gags.

Everyone laughs.

Evan hears everyone giggle as Helen pulls him towards the

house. Helen trips, just managing not to fall.

INT. JULES' DINING ROOM WITH DANCING PEOPLE - CONTINUOUS

Nicola and Fogell are standing in the corner of the room.

Nicola is looking at Fogell's ID.

They both laugh and their eyes meet.

INT. JULES KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The party is in full swing and everyone is getting good and

drunk. Jules walks up to Seth, who is clearly piss drunk.

Seth takes a swig of a beer.

Seth offers her a beer.

Jules laughs and Seth sees that his charm is working.

Jules eyes Seth suspiciously. Seth just looks at her, smiling

drunkenly.

Jules walks out of the kitchen. He finishes off his beer and

then, happy as shit, drunkenly dances out of the kitchen and

after Jules.

INT. JULES' BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Evan practically holds Helen up, almost dropping her several

times, as they stumble into Jules' bedroom. Helen puts down

the tequila and starts kissing Evan, but it's not nice

kissing, it's sloppy porno kissing with way too much tongue.

After a few moments Evan pulls away and looks at the

remarkably drunk Helen.

Helen kisses him.

Helen yanks him onto the bed and starts sloppily kissing him

again. Evan doesn't know what to do. She tries to take off

Evan's shirt, but is way too inebriated to undo the buttons.

Evan yanks it off.

Helen stands up and starts to waver back and forth. She looks

like she's about to tip over, but she catches herself and

sloppily tries to strike a sexy pose like a model.

Evan watches in dread as she starts to strip, pulling her

shirt over her head, completely failing to look sexual.

As Evan watches the tragedy unfold, he grabs the bottle of

tequila and takes a big swig. Helen sits on the floor and

concentrates on untying her shoes.

Evan moves over to help her. He can't do it either.

Helen tries to squeeze her feet out, but she can't. She grabs

a pair of scissors off a desk.

She snips off the knot and slips her shoe off.

Helen laughs as she staggers to her feet and start kissing

Evan. He starts taking off his pants.

INT. JULES' STAIRCASE - MOMENTS LATER

Nicola leads Fogell up the stairs.

EXT. JULES' FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS

Jules and Seth step out onto the front porch. There is no one

else out there. The moment the door closes behind them, Seth

turns to Jules and puts his hands on her hips. He stares into

her eyes and moves in for the kiss.

Jules instantly pulls back.

Seth is absolutely shocked. It takes his remarkably drunk

mind a moment to process this information.

Seth looks at Jules and realizes that he's screwed up. His

eyes start to water.

Seth starts to cry.

Suddenly, the front door opens, and a RANDOM GIRL walks out.

The Random Girl notices Seth and Jules.

The girl hops down the stairs and walks off as Jules stares

at the sobbing Seth.

INT. JULES' ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Evan sitting on the bed in only his boxers, and Helen is just

getting her pants off, leaving her only in her lingerie.

Evan's eyes widen. She looks at Evan and rubs her breasts in

a very un-sexy way.

Helen crawls onto the bed, pushes Evan down, and starts

seriously making out with him, drunker and sloppier than

ever.

Helen shoves her hand down Evan's boxers. Evan jolts,

terrified!

Evan looks really nervous as Helen's hand starts moving up

and down.

Evan is taken aback.

Evan sits up.

Beat.

PUKE! Evan watches in horror as Helen vomits all over Jules'

bed.

PUKE! Evan winces as she throws up again.

INT. JULES PARENTS'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Fogell is laying on his back on the bed and Nicola is

straddling him. They are kissing. Nicola sits up and takes

Fogell's hand and starts sucking his fingers.

He pulls a condom out.

He pulls out a little bottle of lube.

EXT. JULES' FRONT PORCH

Seth and Jules are both seated on the stairs. Seth has his

face in his hands. Jules is patting him on the back, but

clearly feels awkward.

Seth looks up at her, drunk as hell, his eyes half-open.

Seth blanks out and falls forward. BAM! He head-butts Jules

in the face!

Jules clutches her eye as Seth slumps onto the patio floor,

unconscious. She gets up, yelling in pain, as Seth opens his

eyes.

Jules storms into the house, leaving Seth lying on the front

porch. He wiggles around a bit.

Seth passes out again. A few moments go by, when SUDDENLY a

cop car pulls up in front of the house. Seth opens his eyes

and sees the cops.

Two cops get out and start harassing two kids smoking a joint

on the front lawn. One of them turns on their flashlight and

Seth sees - it's OFFICER SLATER and MICHAELS!!!

INT. JULES' HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Evan, sitting on the couch next to Miroki (Evan's partner

from cooking class), drinking a bottle of tequila. He's

absolutely smashed.

Suddenly, Seth bursts into the room and grabs Evan's shirt.

Seth grabs Evan's wrists and tries to pull him to his feet.

Just then, Terry (the guy who spat on Seth in the beginning)

walks by.

Terry and his buddies laugh their asses off when, suddenly-

KNOCK! KNOCK! KNOCK! The loud authoritative knocking echoes

through the party and everyone looks to the door, knowing it

can only mean one thing. Someone opens the door, revealing

Officer Slater and Officer Michaels! They talk to whoever

answered the door, oblivious of Evan and Seth.

Evan points at the cops.

Seth pulls Evan up and the two drunkenly make their way out

of the living room just as the cops step into it.

Michaels turns to Slater.

EXT. JULES' BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

Seth and Evan run through the back yard. Seth stumbles and

falls, but quickly gets up. With great difficulty, The boys

drunkenly lift themselves up and over the fence.

INT. JULES PARENTS'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Fogell is on top of Nicola in the missionary position.

Fogell wears the greatest look of accomplishment one could

possibly imagine.

SUDDENLY, Officer Michaels bursts into the room and flicks on

the lights.

Nicola screams, grabs her clothes, and runs into the

bathroom.

Officer Slater appears in the doorway.

Fogell covers himself with the blanket and starts to get up.

Nicola, now dressed, emerges from the bathroom. She screams

and runs out. They take Fogell's arms and handcuff him.

EXT. ALLEY - CONTINUOUS

Drunk, joyful, and out of breath, the boys stop running.

Evan pulls a half bottle of tequila.

They start to drink it together.

EXT. JULES' FRONT YARD - CONTINUOUS

All the kids from the party have congregated in the front

yard. The cop car is parked right in front. We see the

Officers dragging Fogell through the crowd of kids.

SUDDENLY, a WAD OF SPIT hits Slater in the shoulder! He turns

and sees Terry, the guy who spat on Seth. Slater walks over

and bashes the kid in the face with his nightstick. The kid

drops.

They throw Fogell into the back of the cop car.

INT. COP CAR - CONTINUOUS

The cops both get in and slam their doors. They just stare

forward.

The two cops burst out laughing hysterically.

EXT. BUS - SOON AFTER

Seth and Evan sit at the back of the empty bus together.

Seth cracks up laughing.

EXT. SHOPWELL'S - PARKING LOT - CONTINUOUS

The cop car is spinning donuts in the middle of the empty

lot. It stops. Fogell and Officer Michaels get out, both

smiling. The driver side window rolls down, reveal Slater.

Slater drives to the other side of the lot.

Suddenly, Slater guns it and speeds across the lot, slamming

the breaks, spinning wildly in several erratic donuts

backward donuts.

Slater completely loses control of the car. He smashes

through a bunch of shopping carts and slams into a light

post, completely fucking up the cruiser.

Slater tries to open his door, but it won't budge. He crawls

out the missing windshield, slumping onto the ground.

EXT. CLIFFSIDE - LATER

Slater hands Fogell his note pad.

Fogell signs the pad.

The cops and Fogell push the cruiser towards a small, but

steep, hill. They shove it over the edge and watch it roll.

It gains speed and smashes into a tree, shattering the

windows and crushing the front of the car.

They whip out their guns.

Slater hands Fogell his gun. With a huge smile, Fogell raises

the gun, aims it at the police cruiser, and BLASTS off round

after round.

INT. EVAN'S BASEMENT - NIGHT

Seth and Evan are lying in sleeping bags beside one another.

The now empty bottle of Tequila lies between them. They are

laughing very hard, still drunk off their asses.

They laugh harder.

Seth grabs Evan and they hug.

They stop hugging and sit back down. They're laughter slows

down and there is a moment of silence.

There is a moment of silence.

Beat.

INT. EVAN'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - THE NEXT MORNING

Evan wakes up and looks over at Seth, who is also waking.

They look at each other extremely awkwardly, almost as though

they drunkenly had sex with each other last night.

They stare at each other, uncomfortable.

Seth looks at his watch.

Beat.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE - NEXT DAY

Evan is standing in the pants section of a department store.

Seth walks out of the dressing room wearing jeans that are

way too small.

Seth goes back into the dressing room and wriggles out of the

pants. He walks out.

INT. DEPARTMENT STORE

They walk through the department store, when suddenly, Evan

sees Helen and Jules looking at comforters.

ANGLE ON: Helen and Jules

ANGLE ON: Seth and Evan

Helen looks like hell and Jules has a horrible black eye.

They stare at the two girls from afar.

Helen looks and notices them. She waves and points them out

to Jules. Seth and Evan wave back. The girls get up and start

to walk over.

The girls walk up to them.

Hi Evan, Seth.                       Hey guys.

Hi Helen, Hi Jules.                  Jules. Helen. Hi.

Everyone looks very embarrassed.

Jules laughs.

Evan laughs.

There is a moment of silence.

They all chuckle a little.

Seth and Evan look at each other, odd smiles on both their

faces. They didn't blow it.

Jules pulls Seth away. Evan and Helen start walking in the

opposite direction.

As they walk away from one another, Seth and Evan look back

and give each other a small and yet emotionally-charged wave.

A SLOW, GUT WRENCHING SOUL SONG STARTS TO PLAY. They look as

though they're never going to see each other again.

INT. MACY'S ESCALATOR

As Jules and Seth walk into Macy's and Helen and Evan descend

an escalator, the music swells to a mind-fuckingly awesome

crescendo, and we humbly fade to black...

THE END

END CREDIT SEQUENCE:

We flip through Seth's seemingly endless penis drawings from

childhood. They are hilarious.

