THE SURFER KING

JAFFA, a Jamaican looking fellow in his early 20's, arrives

at Water World, carrying a dusty cardboard box.

There are a few workers milling about, setting up the park

for opening. He passes EDDIE, a 25-something grounds worker

with Down's Syndrome.

They do a hand slap maneuver that they have obviously worked

out some time in the past. JAFFA proceeds up to the Customer

Relations Kiosk, plops the box on the counter, and enters the

kiosk. We see him open the box, it is full of CD's.

He pulls winter covers off of an overhead area to reveal a CD

player and amplifiers. He starts pushing buttons he's pushed

a thousand times, and lights come on. He pulls down a

microphone, and clicks a button to see if it works.

He reaches into the box of CDs and pulls one out. We see it

is Sheryl Crow. He gets the CD, examines it, and pops it

into the CD player.

He once again picks the microphone and flips the switch as he

pushes the "play" button on the CD player.

His voice echoes through the park.         "Soak up the Sun" begins

playing.

GFX - OPENING CREDITS BEGIN

BIG MIKE, the park's owner/manager - a 50-something man who

is portly and bald, and RICHARD THOMPSON, head lifeguard and

another GUARD are on the east side of Thunder Bay.

There is a post with a box on top of it that has a winter

cover on it. The GUARD is standing there with a garden hose

holding it so the water goes into Thunder Bay.

He is obviously tired, and has been standing there a long

time. We look back at the massive size of the pool and get

the joke.

BIG MIKE and RICHARD pull off the winter cover. The GUARD

turns to look and the hose turns with him, getting BIG MIKE

wet. They object and he turns back to filling Thunder Bay.

RICHARD moves the GUARD to a safe distance.

BIG MIKE blows the dust off of the box at the top of the

post, and we see it is a large push button. BIG MIKE looks

at RICHARD who nods "go ahead" and then pushes the button.

They both draw back as if something big should happen, but

nothing. They look at each other and BIG MIKE motions for

RICHARD to go over to the wall housing the wave tank for the

pool.

RICHARD waves OK, and BIG MIKE pushes the button again. When

nothing happens, RICHARD whacks the side of the tank with his

closed fist. Suddenly a huge wave rolls out.

Nodding his approval, BIG MIKE checks off an item in his

clipboard.

We see people working to open the park. The VAIL PRECISION

LAWN CHAIR DRILL TEAM dressed in Water World uniforms is

setting and arranging chairs in time to the music. They

perform precision maneuvers with the chairs, as if rifles,

and cross each other in a timed march to the music.

BIG MIKE is standing under the Fun House structure with a

clipboard. He is talking to RICHARD.

After talking to BIG MIKE, RICHARD shakes his head

affirmatively and walks off. He glances up to the two guards

above, and grins. BIG MIKE is looking at his clipboard. We

see quickly the large water tank above is spilling water a

bit, indicating it is full.

The water tank spills over BIG MIKE drenching him. He stands

there still, angry for a moment, then thinks better of it

shaking his head and smiling, takes his pen and checks OK on

his wet clipboard for the fun house water tank.

Two guards are looking down at BIG MIKE below. One guard

begins motioning as if guiding a crane into place. The other

guard has his hand poised on a large switch lever.

GUARD ONE is gesturing more emphatically now, closing his

hands to indicate "almost there". He closes his hands, and

GUARD TWO pulls the lever.

We are on the road to Water World in Federal Heights,

Colorado. ROBBIE ZIRPOLLO is riding with his mother CONNIE

ZIRPOLLO.

They pass the main Water World sign.    Hanging below it is a

banner that says Opening Tomorrow!.

They have arrived at the front gates of Water World, Kids

are in a line leading to a check-in canopy kiosk that has a

sign saying Employee Check In.

He shuts the car door and walks over to the end of the line.

There are about 40-50 teenagers in various default street

clothes, shorts and tees mostly. Robbie takes his place in

line behind an older, taller boy, ALEX, who seems to know

almost everyone, and has made it his personal mission to

greet them.

Two guys in front of Alex are laughing now.     Further down the

line however, another voice pops up.

ALEX looks in his wallet, as do we.    It is empty.

They are now at the front of the line. A teenage girl

MELISSA is sitting at the table with papers and a clipboard.

ROBBIE and ALEX walk up to yet another line of about 4 or 5

teens. At the front a teenage girl and a teenage guy are

behind a counter and handing out uniforms based on a

clipboard list.

As ROBBIE and ALEX reach the back of the line, TIFFANY, a

blond beauty and two other girls brush past them to the front

of the line.

WE SEE TIFFANY and her two friends are quickly given their

uniforms by the attendants, as they ignore the kids who have

waited in line.

They are now at the front of the line.

Female Uniform Person has brought a blue Hawaiian shirt on a

hanger.

She disappears to the back.

ROBBIE shakes his head "no".

They walk off.   As they walk off we can hear ALEX in the

distance...

Aokee's is a restaurant near Thunder Bay. It seats about 50

and is lavishly decorated in a Hawaiian Surf and Ocean motif,

with surf memorabilia, fish nets, surfboards, and the like.

AOKEE is a large 375 pound plus apparently Hawaiian man, late

twenties, early thirties, wearing a purple Hawaiian shirt,

blue shorts and a white chef's apron that says KISS THE COOK.

WE SEE him on a pay phone behind the counter.

ALEX walks up.   AOKEE waves to him.   He is obviously upset.

AOKEE hangs up the phone.

AOKEE buries his head in his hands on the counter.

AOKEE thinks for a moment. He glances up towards Surf's Up.

It hits both he and ALEX at the same time...

They take off running.

UP

AOKEE and ALEX are running together. They get about 50 feet

before AOKEE, large man that he is, runs out of breath.

ALEX, like a boxer in training, sort of runs in place,

keeping loose, ready for AOKEE to catch his wind. Off they

go again, get another 50 feet, and the same thing happens.

ALEX takes off, and AOKEE runs again....

WE SEE several rolling trash cans lined up in a row, along

with several janitorial carts filled with cleaning utensils

and supplies.

THE COLONEL is standing, dressed in army fatigue pants and a

Water World golf shirt, with a green Water World baseball

cap. He is wearing black horn-rim glasses, thick lenses, and

carrying a clipboard.

Lined up as if an army unit are ten grounds kids, including

ROBBIE, who is sixth furthest from THE COLONEL. They are all

younger than ROBBIE except one, EDDIE, whom we met at the

beginning of the film.

EDDIE is standing tall and straight, proud to be there.      He

is nearest THE COLONEL

THE COLONEL looks over his paperwork.

EDDIE smiles knowingly. This has been his grounds crew

nickname for the last 8 years, mostly because he would never

answer to anything else, and THE COLONEL gave up trying.

EDDIE is beaming with pride now. THE COLONEL pulls a brand

new toilet plunger from the cart nearby and hands it to

EDDIE. EDDIE shoulders it as if it were a rifle.

THE COLONEL walks down the line.

It is all ROBBIE can do not to laugh. THE COLONEL goes on to

the next kid, SKEETER who is tall, skinny and goofy-looking.

SKEETER'S eyes are faced forward, but something catches them.

His eyes follow an unseen object as we begin to hear a small

mosquito. Finally his eyes follow it until he looks, cross

eyed at his own nose.

THE COLONEL has taken note of this and is following it too.

SKEETER can take no more, and brushes it off his nose as he

makes a face.

THE COLONEL steps over the cart and gets another new plunger

and hands it to SKEETER who follows EDDIE's lead.

Next in line is a short, chubby lad, SNITCH. As THE COLONEL

approaches him, a quick sound of passing gas is heard.

THE COLONEL is startled, and SNITCH makes a quick finger

motion indicating the culprit is SKEETER, next to him.

SNITCH shows his dismay with a frown. THE COLONEL has run

out of new plungers already and is forced to move to one of

last year's leftovers, which look somewhat depressing.

He gets one and give it to SNITCH, who looks at it, makes a

face, and decides not to shoulder it. ROBBIE is so depressed

he looks like he's about to pass out.

His worst fears have been realized.    His summer is passing

before his eyes.

There's only one more person, a young 14 year-old girl, to go

before ROBBIE. THE COLONEL addresses her.

Suddenly ALEX bursts onto the scene, and even he, at this

point, is somewhat out of breath.

AOKEE has finally made it now, but is, of course, out of

breath again.

AOKEE gestures he is fine, and does a combination of charades

and Hawaiian pantomime before he finally speaks.

ALEX gets behind AOKEE, deciding he needs some help, feeding

him words.

AOKEE stops, turn and glares at ALEX, who merely smiles and

shrugs.

ALEX comes around from behind AOKEE.

He is flipping though the papers, confused.

ROBBIE has caught on and is quick to step out of line, and

pick up his shirt to be ready to go.

THE COLONEL goes back to the girl MELINDA he was about to

nickname before the interruption, but is staring after ALEX,

AOKEE and ROBBIE as they walk off. He looks at MELINDA. He

looks back at ALEX & company. It hits him.

The entire staff of Water World is assembled for a pre

opening pep talk from owner BIG MIKE MAXWELL. He wears a

Water World Golf shirt, shorts and a crew-style marine hat.

Standing next to him is RICHARD THOMPSON, head lifeguard.

The workers are sitting on the hill.

AOKEE, THE COLONEL and other "management" types are standing

off to the side. TIFFANY and her friends are sitting up

front.

ALEX and ROBBIE are sitting together towards the back, and

ROBBIE's grounds t-shirt is no longer in his hand, but has

been replaced by a folded AOKEE'S blue Hawaiian shirt.

There is a lot of noise from everyone talking.

A chant starts up, with affection...

BIG MIKE smiles, this has happened before, probably a

tradition.

Another cheer starts up, smaller this time, which ALEX

starts.

WE SEE a quick shot of some geeky younger guards wearing

water wings, sharky goggles and noseplugs and looking less

than confident...

He looks down at his clipboard.

He pauses, thoughtful for a moment, but building into a near

rage for effect to impress on everyone...

He stops, composing himself.

Again, thoughtful but building to a rage at the thought that

this could happen...

He stops again, and regains his composure.

There is stunned silence for a moment.    They're not sure how

to react.

ALEX, then everyone begins applauding. ROBBIE looks at ALEX

quizzically, ALEX just shrugs. The meeting breaks up.

Everyone is hurrying around, getting ready for opening day.

ROBBIE, wearing his new blue Hawaiian shirt, is cutting

pineapple. AOKEE is busy hovering over everyone, and cooking

chicken on the grill. ALEX walks in.

ROBBIE finishes the pineapple and hands the tray to AOKEE,

almost spilling it.

ALEX takes a pile of silverware wrapped in napkins, and

points to ROBBIE to grab a box of sugar packets to refill the

dispensers. ROBBIE grabs it quickly, enthusiastically, but

loses his grip and spills the packets on the floor.

At that moment, AUDREY a girl in her teens who works at

AOKEE'S and is stacking plastic cups on the counter,

accidentally knocks a stack of cups to the ground.

RAMON, a teenage boy who works there is behind the counter.

He bends over, disappearing, and we hear a crash of pots and

pans. His head peers up from below the counter sheepishly.

AOKEE turns from the grill looking at all this, and has a

worried look, but smiles and shrugs weakly.

ALEX comes up close next to him at the grill so they can

talk.

ALEX pops a CD out of the rack above the sound system, and

puts it in the CD player, stopping the standard pastoral

Hawaiian music that has been playing.

He turns up the volume some on the amp, and goes over to

SARAH, a teenage girl working there, and grabs her grass

skirt by the Velcro, removing it with a Velcro rip.

ALEX walks back out to the dining area, everyone is still

working.

Everyone stops and looks at ALEX.

AOKEE hits the play button on the CD player.

The music starts and ALEX, now wearing SARAH's grass skirt,

launches into his version of the electric slide, Hawaiian

style.

EVERYONE ELSE gets the beat and begins working to the music.

AOKEE is using his spatulas as drum sticks on the overhanging

kitchen tools.

RAMON has inverted an empty pot and is beating it conga-drum

style.

ROBBIE has picked up the sugar packets and ALEX is dancing

and quickly (almost casually) tossing silverware/napkin rolls

to ROBBIE as ROBBIE catches them (at first with some

difficulty) and puts them on the tables.

SARAH has re-stacked the cups, and is juggling salt & pepper

shakers, placing them on the tables. AUDREY chops onions to

the beat.

AOKEE has now taken all the chicken off the grill and comes

out from behind the counter, dancing. The others form a

CONGA LINE behind him.

As they go by the tables they put on any missing items. They

get into it more and more, AOKEE especially, swinging his

huge, 375 pound guy hips.

As the song ends (abruptly), AOKEE bumps a surfboard (part of

the restaurant's decoration) with his hip, knocking it and

another one to the ground.

There is a loud crash and everyone pauses and looks at AOKEE,

waiting to see if he gets mad.

AOKEE looks down at his hip, and makes a puppy-dog face like

"I didn't know my hips were that big...." Everyone claps,

laughing. AOKEE takes a bow.

ROBBIE and ALEX are carrying bus tubs loaded with dirty

dishes back toward the kitchen from the dining area.

AOKEE is sipping on a smoothie and leaning back on a counter.

There are only a few customers in the eating area.

They set the tubs down on a counter that passes to the back

area. An unseen person takes them into the dishwashing area.

They walk off carrying their smoothies.

ROBBIE and ALEX are walking past Thunder Bay concessions area

toward THE WAVE carrying and drinking their smoothies.

They are coming up on THE WAVE area.

The walk up to THE WAVE attraction, where kids are surfing in

a high-water pressure river/ sheet of water. Surf music

plays loudly here, and kids are doing all kinds of tricks.

Some riders are good, some are not, and fall quickly.

We also see SKEETER and SNITCH, the tall skinny and short

chubby grounds kids we met earlier. They are cleaning up

around the exit area of THE WAVE.

WE SEE some guys that look a little stoned with unusual hair

laughing and talking to each other.

Alex points up to a fence, behind which some smoke appears to

be drifting up.

ROBBIE nods, understanding. ALEX points back to THE WAVE.

WE SEE a pretty girl in line to ride.

With that ALEX walks over to BOB, a guy in his late teens,

wearing a Security Golf Shirt. He is standing and looking

off in a different direction.

He hands him the radio, and ALEX is back with ROBBIE.

ALEX waves and FRANK, the guard watching THE WAVE waves back.

WE SEE FRANK push forward on a handle next to him that seems

to resemble the throttle on a speedboat. The ambient noise

from the wave is noticeably higher.

The WAVE BABE jumps into the water with the board.      SKEETER

and SNITCH are still cleaning near the exit.

THEY LOOK intently at the WAVE BABE, who is pretty good, even

with the increased water flow. But, after a few deft moves,

she falls. ALEX looks, and sees what he is looking for.

ROBBIE smiles.

We look back at the WAVE BABE, but the water is obscuring our

view. We then see a medium shot of SKEETER and SNITCH. The

WAVE BABE walks past them carrying a board, but we don't see

below her waist, the board obscures our view.

SNITCH sees, and freezes, dumbstruck. SKEETER is looking

down at the grate where THE WAVE water drains. He reaches

down and pulls something out, and turns to the WAVE BABE

walking away.

Finally she turns. We see her, but just a flash of her from

the back, as the board covers her waist area. She is puzzled

by this grounds kid.

She looks down behind the board and reacts.     She bites her

lower lip, winces and nods yes.

SKEETER hands her her swimsuit, and she looks around and

backs away towards a towel hanging from the fence nearby.

SNITCH is still frozen, stunned by what he's just seen, mouth

wide open. SKEETER waves his hand in front of SNITCH's face.

No reaction.   He's never seen a naked girl before.

We're back to ALEX and ROBBIE.

ROBBIE nods in agreement, and they walk off.

ROBBIE and ALEX are walking past the SURF'S UP wave pool.

ROBBIE walks over to the First Aid Station. DOUG FITZGERALD,

the guy we heard in line on the first day is there, he's a

guard.

ALEX and ROBBIE are walking to RIVER COUNTRY and walk past

JAFFA in the CUSTOMER SERVICE KIOSK.

They turn and walk over.

The PHONE RINGS, and Jaffa turns to answer.

JAFFA smiles and picks up a radio.

WE SEE two female life guards, both with a surprised look on

their faces. One has just reached into the water and picks it

up to display a HUGE pair of swim trunks. Both girls make an

Eeeew face.

ALEX wanders off a moment, looking at something going on in

the distance.

WE SEE SKEETER and SNITCH walking into the men's room,

looking suspiciously around.

ROBBIE smiles and nods, and waves goodbye to catch up with

ALEX.

SNITCH is filling up a water balloon, while SKEETER is tying

a piece of fishing line to the hook on the inside of the

stall door. SKEETER climbs up on top of the stall.

SNITCH is tying off the water balloon and grabs the other end

of the fishing line, and ties it to the fill end of the

balloon. He shuts the stall door, tosses the balloon up to

SKEETER, who places it strategically on the beam above the

toilet. SKEETER then jumps down, and they head for the door.

Eddie Enters. We see EDDIE cautiously checking out the

restroom. He reaches up over the closed stall door and feels

gingerly the fishing line. He smiles and shakes his head,

and heads for the door.

EDDIE is now pushing his cart and making his way toward the

MEN's RESTROOM. He stops to talk to two concessions girls

and show them a magic trick that apparently involves a deck

of cards, which he pulls from a place on his cart. We see

him holding the cards so one girl can pick one.

SKEETER pops his head out and looks around. He sees Eddie in

the distance about 5 minutes away, and putting a plastic

liner in a trash can. He nods and disappears into the men's

room.

SKEETER and SNITCH appear at the door, look out, and see

EDDIE finishing his card trick. He presents a card for the

girls to see, and the both nod encouragingly, but as they

walk off, they look at each other and shrug.

SKEETER and SNITCH take off, barely containing their

laughter. But EDDIE notices them leaving. All of this has

happened under the watchful though distant eye of ALEX.

EDDIE goes into the restroom.

EDDIE exits the restroom and goes to his cart.     At this point

ALEX and ROBBIE walk up to him.

EDDIE reached onto his cart and pulls out a pair of scissors,

eyeing them.

ALEX and ROBBIE walk away as EDDIE places a "RESTROOM CLOSED"

sandwich board in front of the door. Just then BIG MIKE

rushes up.

EDDIE motions and tries to find the words....

But BIG MIKE is already in. Eddies waits for it, wincing,

and there is a loud splash...

EDDIE just shrugs and puts away his scissors.

Two young women guards, KATIE and AMY are loading kids into

tubes and pushing them onto the slide. AMY is a little older

than KATIE.

KATIE just shakes her head in amazement. ROBBIE and ALEX

walk up to them. AMY is out of earshot, loading a kid.

ALEX hangs back a bit.

ALEX and ROBBIE walk off.

This in an area where riders splash down from riding a tube

down the River Country slides. ROBBIE and ALEX are walking

past the splashdown area.

ROBBIE and ALEX proceed to BIG MIKE's out of frame.

SUDDENLY in the background we see a tube splashdown from a

slide and the 7 year-old girl riding in it falls out.

Realizing she is no longer safely in a tube she screams and

begins splashing as if drowning. A guard nearby blows a

single tweet of her whistle.

IN SLOW MOTION we see four other guards throughout the area

turn and react to the whistle. They begin running, BAYWATCH

style towards the scene.

Two guards are running and carrying a backboard. They

converge in another BAYWATCH style slow-mo shot and line up

along the edge of the splashdown pool.

One guard in the middle has a rescue tube, and, still in slow

motion, squats down slowly as if to jump in and rescue the

girl.

At the low end of the jump crouch, however he stops.      WE SEE

his face in close-up as he says.

The drowning girl stops splashing wildly, and realizes she

can indeed stand up. She looks at all the guards lined up,

smiles sheepishly, and walks out of the pool.

ALEX is standing outside of BIG MIKE's.    ROBBIE is walking

out of the restaurant.

ALEX knocks loudly on the door.

A teenage boy, DAVE in a BIG MIKE's uniform answers.

DAVE disappears for moment.

ROBBIE is getting out money from his pocket, counting through

it.

DAVE shows up with two burgers and two malts, and hands them

to ALEX, disappears and shuts the door quickly. ROBBIE is

still staring at his money.

They walk out of frame.

ALEX and ROBBIE are cleaning tables after another busy lunch.

WE SEE that AOKEE is filling up a bucket, and getting a scrub

brush, and heads out the doorway.

They exit out the same doorway as AOKEE.

AOKEE is busily cleaning and cursing the pigeons.

He keeps cleaning.

They go back into AOKEE'S SURF AND SNACK SHACK.

ROBBIE is now behind the counter making smoothies.      He puts

them up and the two kids waiting take them and walk away.

In walk AMY and KATIE.

He shakes a mix container, blends it for about 5 seconds and

pours it out into two cups. He then puts in two umbrellas

with pineapple.

AMY looks over to KATIE and rolls her eyes.

ALEX arrives at this point, and decides to provide a

distraction.

As he leads her back into the kitchen...

ALEX has distracted AMY all he could and they return from the

kitchen.

They leave.

ROBBIE looks confused.

ROBBIE and ALEX have their swimsuits on, and are in line to

get on THE WAVE. ALEX is coaching ROBBIE.

ALEX is up now, and he grabs the board and jumps in. He is

pretty good, but not nearly as good as the WAVE BUMS. He

does a few tricks and wipes out. He gets up and walks up to

the line to watch ROBBIE.

ROBBIE takes the board and looks around. He jumps full force

onto the wave. It takes him just a moment to get the feel of

the board, and then he is all over it, making the WAVE BUMS

look like rookies. Spins, rolls, everything that can be done

he does. Finally, the guard blows a whistle indicating that

his time is up.

They start walking back.

They stop for a moment to look at Thunder Bay. Just then a

wave spews out, and kids on tubes are screaming as they

always do.

ALEX just smiles.

AOKEE is cleaning up behind the counter.    ALEX is grinning

like the cat that ate the canary.

We hear a loud CRASH from the kitchen.      AOKEE winces and

gestures toward the kitchen.

ALEX goes into the back. AOKEE sits at a table. Robbie

comes out of the kitchen wearing a dishwasher apron.

WE HEAR the whine of a blender as ALEX is working on the

Volcano Smoothie.

ALEX arrives with the Volcano Smoothie. He turns a chair

around and sits. They will gang up on him.

Robbie looks at them, thinking for a moment.

WE SEE quarters going ding ding ding into the pay phone on

AOKEE'S wall. The shot widens to reveal AOKEE is dumping

quarters and ROBBIE is holding the phone. He puts it up to

his ear.

AOKEE and ALEX are huddled around smiling.

BIG MIKE is standing, walking around as he speaks, TIFFANY is

sitting. Clearly she is being scolded.

ROBBIE and ALEX hook up and grab their time cards. There is

a banner hanging that says, "Employee Luau Tonight", and

SKEETER and SNITCH have taken a 5 gallon bucket and are using

it as a stepladder to attach something.

SKEETER is on the bucket with a stapler in his hand. SNITCH

hands up the hand-lettered magic marker addition, which

SKEETER staples on to the bottom of the banner while SNITCH

keeps a lookout.

The addition says, "COME GET LEI'D".     They scamper off,

laughing.

With that, ALEX punches in, as if to punctuate the line.

It is dark, but the place is lit up by little lights

everywhere, Christmas lights in the fake palm trees, TIKI

lights around AOKEE's, and lights lighting a stage where a

band is playing, what else, surf music.

Buffet tables line the area, and there is SMOOTHIE BAR set

up. BIG MIKE himself is behind the bar making smoothies,

while RICHARD is playing bass in the band. AOKEE is running

around making sure all the buffet items are full. Everyone

is wearing Leis, but the cheap plastic ones, except AOKEE and

his staff, who have real ones flown in from Hawaii.

ALEX picks up two Leis from a box behind the counter. He and

Robbie walk over to AMY and KATIE who are standing over near

the buffet.

ALEX and ROBBIE set the smoothies on a nearby table. They

remove the cheap plastic Leis the girls are wearing. Then

they put on the real ones they carried over. ALEX steps back

to admire his work.

The girls look at each other and smile. ALEX and ROBBIE grab

the smoothies and hand two to the girls. AMY sips hers right

away.

Onstage, the band had finished a tune before the dialog began

above. Now JAFFA steps up to the mike.

Everyone applauds, AOKEE waves. Alex raises a hand and waves

off the accolade. ROBBIE nods and smiles as the AMY and

KATIE clap as well.

Again, everyone claps and cheers him on.    AOKEE goes on

stage.

AMY shrugs yes and goes out with ALEX.

AOKEE begins singing the Hawaiian love song, "E O'Mai".      Many

couples are dancing; it is a slow song.

ALEX, of course, is a goof. He dances slow, but every once

in a while executes a deep dip, much to AMY's terror.

EDDIE is off to the edge of the dance floor, watching,

longingly, and kind of swaying to the music. A couple of

girls walk by and he does a magic trick for them.

He holds both hands up, palms open to show he has nothing in

his hands. He also gestures that he has no sleeves (he is

wearing a tuxedo t-shirt). He reaches behind his back and

pulls out a trick bouquet of flowers, but they don't quite

open right, and are still unfolding as he holds them.

EDDIE smiles weakly, he knows that isn't quite how it was

supposed to go. The girls appear encouraging, but as they

leave look at each other and giggle.

We pick up ROBBIE and KATIE dancing.

They continue to dance. WE SEE BIG MIKE talking to TIFFANY

and gesturing broadly. TIFFANY is clearly not agreeing with

what he is saying. COWBOY is nowhere to be seen. Suddenly she

throws up her hands and marches over to the dance floor where

EDDIE is standing alone, swaying a bit to the music.

She whispers something in his ear, and EDDIE'S eyes get real

big as she leads him by the hand to the middle of the dance

floor. She wraps her arms around EDDIE and they dance, all

the while glaring at her father.

EDDIE knows a good thing when he sees it, and quickly settles

in, Big Man on Campus. TIFFANY is taller than he is, so he

happily puts his head on HER shoulder.

BIG MIKE looks back at them, not happy with the way it

happened, but satisfied.

DOUG FITZGERALD (twenty bucks DOUG) is dancing with a girl

when ALEX, doing some kind of fancy spin to AMY, bumps into

him.

ALEX grabs AMY and swings her into another fancy move that

leads them away from DOUG.

The song ends, and everybody claps.     AOKEE bows.

They pick up their smoothies and walk off into the night.

ROBBIE is walking on the seawall that separates the bay from

the sunning area, tightrope style. KATIE walks next to him.

ALEX and AMY are inside the KIOSK.    ALEX is showing her how

everything works.

He pulls out a CD and pops it into the CD Player and presses

PLAY. He sees a flyswatter and begins waving it around like

a sword.

He begins swishing it around, AMY is giggling.

AMY is dodging and laughing. ALEX closes in and seems like

he will kiss her, but just starts gumming her neck, tickling

her. AMY leans back laughing and WE SEE her back hits the

volume knob on the amplifier.

They have reached   the area to the west of Thunder Bay. It is

simply a concrete   pad that overlooks the party below. We

hear "Paradise is   in Your Eyes" by Michael Peace, which

begins with a lot   of jungle sound effects.

He walks away slightly and gets on the radio.

ALEX and AMY are kissing; she is up on the counter of the

KIOSK.

He grabs the radio.

He turns down the volume back to normal. He also flips a

switch. They hear the tune now, and AMY jumps off the

counter, stands there and smiles. ALEX does an over-the-top

mambo moving to her and they start to slow dance.

ROBBIE has set down the radio, and is walking back to KATIE

now, who is swaying to the music. He doesn't get too close

to her, and actually stands off to her left.

Since she has the room and is momentarily inspired, she

begins a few dance moves, ballet, and then ballroom style.

ROBBIE has seen this sort of thing before, and instinctively,

almost without thinking steps in and becomes her dance

partner. They proceed in a beautiful dance that almost seems

rehearsed. Finally it occurs to them both.

They continue to dance.    After a few moments...

They stop and walk over to the railing overlooking the party.

They kiss, then return to dancing.

SHACK - SURF MUSIC BED

WE SEE ALEX and ROBBIE discussing something; forming a plan.

They are going to look for Pipeman. ALEX gestures in one

direction, and ROBBIE takes off. ALEX goes in another.

FUNHOUSE - SURF MUSIC BED

ALEX walks up to the Guard, appears to ask a question.        The

guard shakes his head "no".

ALEX walks off.

ROBBIE is talking to a cashier in the store.     She shakes her

head 'no'. Robbie walks out hurriedly.

MUSIC BED

ALEX is talking to Jaffa. JAFFA gestures wildly, as if

telling some big mythical story, but at the end throws up his

hands as if to say, "I don't know".

SURF MUSIC BED

We are in pitch darkness. We hear the sound of heavy

scraping metal. Lights shine and we are looking up through a

manhole cover being removed. ROBBIE bends over the hole and

hollers "PIPEMAN" and peers in. He shakes his head

negatively and moves on.

We are at the back door to Big Mike's. ALEX knocks, and the

same kid as before, DAVE, pops his head out. ALEX appears to

ask a question, DAVE goes back in as ALEX waits. DAVE comes

out again and gestures, "no one knows". ALEX starts to leave,

but turns back and asks something else. DAVE disappears and

comes back with a burger. ALEX shrugs, and walks away

unwrapping and eating the burger.

ROBBIE sees a door marked, "EMPLOYEES ONLY". He looks down

at his employee ID and shrugs and goes in. As he enters we

see he is pushed out by some unknown force. Out the open

door comes "Wally" the Water World mascot, who walks off.

Robbie has been knocked to the ground and looks up, shaking

his head. He gets up and walks off.

MUSIC BED

Now it is ALEX who has separately come upon the same door,

not knowing ROBBIE has already been there. He enters, and

the door remains open. We hear girls screaming and he exits

quickly, followed by a volley of thrown girl's underwear,

swimsuits and towels.

MUSIC BED

This room is creepy. It is full of loud pumps and large

pipes. ROBBIE is making his way through a labyrinth of

piping and gauges and the like. He peers and sees a head

with a red scarf, but it moves out of view.  Surf music

fades.

There is a constant whine of the pumps. ROBBIE moves further

in and finally comes across a man holding a large pipewrench,

with his back to him. He is working to tame a small leak.

No reaction.

This startles and kind of angers PIPEMAN.

PIPEMAN holds up the large wrench.

ROBBIE begins walking out, dejected.    PIPEMAN looks at him,

and feels sorry for him.

WE SEE Thunder Bay looking east. AOKEE and ALEX are setting

up lawn chairs. AOKEE is lathering on suntan lotion, and

puts on a large straw hat. ALEX puts sun block cream on his

nose, and they both sit on the lawn chairs. They both have

large smoothies.

ROBBIE appears with his surfboard, and lays it up against the

east fence at Thunder Bay. PIPEMAN arrives carrying a small

device in a plastic ziplock bag.

ROBBIE approaches PIPEMAN.

Robbie gets his board and jumps into Thunder Bay, paddling

over to the narrow side where the wave begins.

PIPEMAN goes down the stairs leading to near where ROBBIE has

positioned himself.

A wave comes and ROBBIE begins paddling.     He misses it,

splashes the water angrily and turns back to paddle to

position again. AOKEE and ALEX look at each other nervously.

Another wave comes. ROBBIE paddles furiously and misses it

again. Now he's really angry.

ROBBIE paddles over to the spot suggested by PIPEMAN. AOKEE

and ALEX are now sitting on the edge of the lawn chairs

anxiously awaiting the next wave. It comes and ROBBIE

catches it easily and begins riding it aggressively. He has

a good run and kicks out at the end.

AOKEE and ALEX high-five.

They settle back into their chairs to absorb some sun.

AOKEE is behind the counter finishing up making a smoothie.

RICHARD, head lifeguard is on the other side; he will get the

smoothie.

We hear a loud CRASH from the kitchen.

AOKEE gestures back towards the kitchen.

ANOTHER CRASH from the kitchen, this time pots & pans.

They slap hands to seal the deal.    RICHARD leaves, grinning

and shaking his head.

ROBBIE smiles and takes the smoothie back to the kitchen.

ROBBIE and PIPEMAN are in the middle of a practice session.

PIPEMAN is at the side, ROBBIE is in the water on his board.

The wave comes and ROBBIE catches it and surfs it hard,

kicking up high at the end.

WE SEE COWBOY and TIFFANY standing overlooking Thunder Bay.

COWBOY has binoculars and is looking through them.

TIFFANY grabs the binoculars and stares down at Thunder Bay.

WE SEE gears turning in her head.

ROBBIE and Alex are walking by.   JAFFA sees them.

Two concessions girls are walking by them.

Another group of concession girls calls ROBBIE from one of

the snack bars. He waves.

Just then they both nearly run headlong into TIFFANY.

She walks off. ROBBIE just stands there. ALEX starts

walking, then comes back. Finally ALEX pushes him on the

shoulder.

AOKEE is wiping the counter alone.    HE turns toward the

kitchen...

AOKEE continues cleaning up. ALEX shows up with a load of

cups, AOKEE takes them and starts placing then.

WE SEE in a far corner of AOKEE's TIFFANY and ROBBIE in an

animated, engaging conversation.

WE SEE TIFFANY and ROBBIE again, and TIFFANY is laughing

loudly at some joke ROBBIE has made.

ROBBIE, ALEX, AMY and KATIE are clocking out for the day.

ROBBIE clocks out first. TIFFANY drives up in her

convertible.

ROBBIE goes over to talk to her.    WE SEE him go around to the

passenger side.

ROBBIE jumps in and they drive away. ALEX, AMY and KATIE are

still standing on the porch of the TIME SHACK, shocked at

what they've seen.

WE SEE ROBBIE and TIFFANY drive out the gate.     We see KATIE

walk slowly out of the park alone.

As she is walking, we flash back to scenes of KATIE and

ROBBIE together, dancing and laughing. This time the dance

moves to the song of Allison Krause's "New Favorite".

We take a final look at KATIE with the setting sun at her

back and see she is crying.

We see the rising sun behind AOKEE's head as he raises a

conch shell and blows it like a horn. He is dressed like a

Hawaiian prince.

As the shot widens it reveals six males and two females

dressed in Hawaiian native garb. ROBBIE And ALEX are among

several drummers with bamboos sticks in their hands that

provide percussion for the Hawaiian war dance.

The drums begin and the male dancers, carrying spears begin

the Hawaiian war dance. The drummers sing the Hawaiian folk

tune "No ka moku Kiakahi Ke Aloha".

There are about 100 concessions kids in regular uniform

sitting cross-legged behind them, clapping the beat in

unison.

The MALE DANCERS circle each other in time to the beat,

gesturing a story the seems to involve some invading army.

The war dance progresses until the invading warriors are

defeated and the folk song ends. At the end, the kids

sitting behind raise their hand and shout.

Looking to the south side of the pool, we see about 50

grounds kids sitting in rows. In our foreground there are

six large trash cans, with toilet plungers arranged next to

them, 2 each.

To our left are a line of six grounds kids in army fatigues

carrying brooms as if rifles. The lead kid shouts:

THE DRILL team marches into full view. The grounds kids

behind clap the march beat. The marchers stop in front of

the line of trash cans.

They do.

The brooms come off their shoulders and are held forward.

They begin a routine practiced with brooms, in a cadence,

clapped by the grounds kids behind them.

They stop.     Their brooms are raised over their heads.

They allow their brooms to fall to their right side and march

to the trash cans. They pull out bright blue ski masks, a la

BLUE MAN GROUP, and pick up the toilet plungers. The lead

marcher holds his plunger high and shouts.

He counts a four beat rhythm and they begin a BLUE MAN/STOMP

like drum routine with the trash cans.

Two grounds kids in regular grounds uniforms approach holding

steel trash can lids by the handles (with gloves). These

become drums as well as two of the drummers switch from trash

can to can lids using the stick side of the toilet plunger as

the drumstick.

A competition erupts from the left and right sides of the

line as they each set a beat and then the other matches.

Finally, a show of unity as both sides join back into the

beat for an ending flourish.

They pick up their brooms and turn their attention to the

kids behind them. They begin to march in place and the seated

grounds kids clap for the tempo.

They clap and cheer, and settle back down to sit.

All is quiet now. WE SEE concessions kids sitting, grounds

kids sitting and we look to the west side of the pool and see

lifeguards sitting. Everyone is looking around.

Suddenly two lifeguards dressed as Roman Soldiers appear with

horns. They bellow a Roman Call to Action, and two Roman

drummers lead a column of other lifeguards.

First we see female guards dressed in togas filing in. Behind

them are six gladiators with swords and shields, marching.

They are followed by one female lifeguard with a basket of

rose petals. She is throwing them into the path of the next

group to enter.

Next we see six more guards dressed as slaves carrying

COWBOY, who is sitting up on a First Aid backboard. HE is

wearing laurel leaves and a toga, he is obviously Cesar. On

the backboard is also the surfer king trophy.

They all approach the area in front of the seated guards, and

rearrange themselves so that COWBOY has a good view of the

gladiators. The drummers count a cadence that sets the pace

for a simulated battle between the gladiators.

The simulated battle rages until three of the gladiators are

on their knees before the three victorious gladiators. The

victorious gladiators hold their swords over the fallen ones,

and look to COWBOY for a yea or nay.

COWBOY generously waves and makes a thumbs up signal, and the

swords are put away. The seated lifeguards all raise their

fists and shout.

The guards holding COWBOY set him down in front of an

elevated platform that has a microphone..

COWBOY picks up the surfer king trophy and walks to the

platform. He sets the trophy on a table next to the

microphone, arranging it carefully.

We see now there is a large banner hanging at the back of the

wave pool that says "WATER WORLD WELCOMES EMPLOYEE

OLYMPIANS".

COWBOY moves to the microphone and raises his arm in a regal

manner and speaks.

The seated crowd now stands and cheers loudly. We see a

group of three people, two male and one female, adults we

will later identify as JUDGES. They nod approvingly and

write something down on their clipboards. We see BIG MIKE

near them, smiling broadly.

We see that the lounge chairs have been removed and the area

is clear. There are scattered squashed up pieces of white

paper lying about.

We look to the south and see that there are three boy/girl

teams with one of their legs tied together, like a three

legged race.

The rub here is one team member has the dustpan and the other

team member has the broom. A JUDGE triggers a starter pistol

and they are off.

The lifeguard team falls almost immediately, and the grounds

team takes a early lead over the concessions team, who are

trying to figure the dustpan/broom operation out. The two

grounds people work tightly together and quickly advance.

The lifeguards have gotten back up and are hobbling up to

their first piece of trash. Concessions has figured out the

dustpan, but are still well behind the grounds kids.

Finally, the grounds kids win, with concessions up second,

and lifeguards trailing in third. The judges note the finish

on their clipboards.

We see three male participants standing in the shallow end of

Thunder Bay, One red suit (lifeguard) one blue suit

(concessions) and one green suit (grounds)

A JUDGE on the rise to the west of Thunder Bay blows an air

horn to start the race. They all rush into the bay and begin

swimming furiously.

The guard takes the lead quickly, followed not far behind by

the grounds kid. The concessions kid is working hard and

splashing a lot but not getting very far.

As the guard reaches the back wall, he does an underwater

racing turn and swims back toward the point where they

started. Right behind him, the smaller grounds kid does the

same thing.

As they are returning, they pass the concessions kid, who

still is splashing a lot but not going fast. After they pass

him he stops, as he is tired out.

Momentarily he can't even tread water any more, and a guard

watching from the sidelines jumps in and pulls him out. The

swimming guard has beaten the grounds kid, the concessions

kid never finishes.

There are three lines set up with several participants. It

is a relay race, with the baton replaced by a tray full of

drinks in paper cups, water. The colors indicate again

concessions, guards and grounds.

The race is already in full swing, with concessions in the

lead. The last group of relayers are now getting their

trays, and concessions is way ahead.

Everyone is cheering their team on. The final pass is made

to SARAH who works for AOKEE's. She takes the tray and moves

gracefully to the final stop. There is a small table on

which the drinks must be placed.

She is clearly going to win when she suddenly stops.

All concessions kids are shocked and plead her to go on.

She does a nifty and graceful around the back maneuver with

the tray, proceeds to the table, and sets down the drinks,

tipping the tray sideways to show no water has been spilled.

The JUDGES scribble furiously.

Three picnic tables are set up in front of AOKEE's. WE dolly

past each one to see that they are cluttered indentically

with what appears to be the leftovers from lunch for four.

Behind each table is a team of two guards, concessions and

grounds kids.

A JUDGE blows a whistle and we begin by looking at the

lifeguard team.

It is a boy and a girl and the girl is not too keen on this.

They bring a trash can with them and begin gingerly clearing

the table, acting as if they are afraid to get their hands

dirty.

We dolly left to see the concessions team a little ahead of

the guard team.

We dolly further left to reveal a grounds kid in a full rain

suit with a face shield.

A tremendous force of water is clearing the table into the

trash can which the rain-suited grounds kid is holding at

it's end.

We dolly further left to see EDDIE in full army fatigues with

safety goggles on and wearing the biggest super-soaker water

gun in the history of man.

The table is quickly cleared, and at the same time washed.

EDDIE holds up the business end of the Super-Soaker gun and

blows imaginary smoke from it's barrel, like an old Western

gunfighter.

The JUDGES take notes.

The three different teams are gathered in groups waiting for

the next challenge. One of each team is in full sweats,

color coordinated by team.

ALEX is the one in the sweats for concessions. Slowly the

sweats people walk into the pool about waist deep and lay

down.

The grounds kid is the littlest guy of all.

A JUDGE blows a whistle and four members of each team run

into the water and drag their now soaked sweat suited

teammate out of the water. They lie them down on a clear

area and begin CPR.

The guards have a nifty little plastic device that lets them

blow air into the mouth of their victim, and they roll him

quickly on his side to clear water and back to begin CPR.

They are fast and efficient, and clearly expertly trained.

We move left to see the grounds kids, knowledgeable but

inexperienced. One girl is using her hands to provide a

seals over the mouth of her "victim" and another is clumsily

pumping his chest while the others try to keep a count while

reading some kind of instruction card..

We move again to see the concessions kids, who are in

trouble. ALEX is lying there dying, and they are arguing

about who has to breathe into his mouth. They form a circle

over him, pointing and arguing.

Finally they all just walk off and ALEX is still lying on the

ground, eyes rolled back and twitching convulsively in a

hilarious death scene.

The JUDGES take their notes.

Once again three teams representing the three competing

factions. Large stainless steel pots are bubbling on three

propane cooking stands in front of the concession.

The teams each have three members in cooking aprons, again,

color coded. One from each team is stirring the team's chili

while the others watch the JUDGES anxiously.

Lines are forming in front of each pot, with people in line

each carrying a paper chili bowl, but holding back, deferring

to the JUDGES. The JUDGES are each carrying three styro cups

in which to receive the chili.

They each get a portion from the guard team and take a sip.

They smile politely to the cooks, but turn around and spit

the chili back into the cup as delicately as possible, almost

as if throwing up. A concessions kid is there with a tray of

waters, which they quickly take advantage of.

They move on to the grounds team. They get their portions

and taste the chili and nod, not bad.

They take another sip of water to clear their palate and move

on to the concessions team. The portions are proudly

scooped.

They take a taste, smile and take some more.     They huddle for

a moment and then place a blue ribbon on the concessions pot.

The lines quickly rearrange and merge themselves so that

everyone is in line for the concessions pot.

An obstacle course has been set up, and the event provides a

background to the dialogue that follows. AOKEE has some

papers, and is talking to ALEX and ROBBIE.

They look over at the obstacle course where a tiny grounds

kid is jumping up and down and raising his arms ROCKY-style.

ROBBIE just looks at both of them nods and sighs heavily as

the other grounds kids surround our winner in the background.

AOKEE and ALEX walk off. Suddenly TIFFANY appears.

She starts to walk off.

She walks away. ROBBIE stands there a moment before waking

up and leaving also.

It is dark. We see ALEX and AOKEE cleaning up from the day's

food service. ALEX Is wiping down the smoothie area, AOKEE

is sweeping on the other side of the counter.

ALEX disappears back into the kitchen. AOKEE goes to an

empty table under the one light on in the dining area and

sits down.

ALEX comes back and ROBBIE follows.

ROBBIE sits down.   So does ALEX.   Robbie looks at both and

gets suspicious.

AOKEE'S head is down in his hands. Robbie looks stunned.

ALEX nods yes.

ROBBIE leaves.     ALEX and AOKEE just sit, looking at each

other.

Hundreds of people are gathering on bleachers to watch the

surfing competition.

A large highway construction type signboard has been erected

and says "Grounds   93", "Concessions 93" and "Lifeguards

94".

It is almost a festival atmosphere.     The JUDGES are standing

in a group, conferring, near a table that has the controls

for the sign. The sign can be viewed easily from the

bleachers.

WE look over to the front of AOKEE's and see AOKEE and ALEX

standing outside the restaurant.

SHACK

They are looking to the north towards the crowd, but ROBBIE

appears behind them.

ROBBIE picks up his board, and they begin walking toward the

bleachers. ALEX stops and turns suddenly.

He is in ROBBIE's way.        ROBBIE pushes him with his board.

ROBBIE, COWBOY and MELINDA from grounds, who we met earlier

and was conned into the contest because she said she surfed

once on vacation, are all standing in front of the JUDGES.

One JUDGE explains the rules.

They all shake their head no.

MELINDA grabs her board and begins paddling out. The wave

comes and it's all she can do to stay on her board. She

struggles and falls at the end. She will clearly not be a

factor. The big screen shows a 0 in a column after the

grounds score.

We look back to the bleachers to polite applause, but the

COLONEL and the grounds kids are clearly disappointed.

COWBOY is out there now, the wave comes and he catches it

easily. He rides the wave gracefully and well, and kicks out

at the end. The big screen shows an 8 in the lifeguard row.

The lifeguards and RICHARD are cheering now.

ROBBIE is next. He catches the wave and rides it more

aggressively than COWBOY, but nearly falls at the end of his

run. The big screen shows an 8. The concessions kids and

AOKEE are very enthusiastic. They can see they have a chance

with ROBBIE. PIPEMAN is watching from a far corner.

MELINDA begins her second run. She is a little more

confident this time, but still seems barely able to stand and

ride the wave. More polite applause, and the big screen

shows a 5.

COWBOY catches his wave, and tries to imitate ROBBIE'S more

aggressive style, but falls midway through the run. We hear

a large gasp from the crowd as this happens.

The crowd applauds politely, and the guards are supportive

but disappointed. We see the JUDGES confer and the big screen

shows a 0.

ROBBIE gets his wave, and surfs it aggressively again, this

time not nearly falling at all. The JUDGES nod approvingly

and confer. The big screen shows a 9. The crowd goes wild,

especially the concessions kids.

Melinda begins her final run. She does better than the past

two, but not significantly. The JUDGES confer and the screen

shows a 5. The ground kids are very disappointed, they know

they are out of it now. THE COLONEL shakes MELINDA'S hand

and thanks her for her efforts.

COWBOY gets his wave, and has clearly decided to go back to

his original style; he rides the wave gracefully, but takes

no chances.

He kicks out at the end with a wave and a smile. The guards

applaud, hoping to make it seem better than it was, and the

JUDGES confer and the screen shows an 8.

ROBBIE snags his wave and rides it aggressively again, but

loses his balance momentarily. It costs him; the JUDGES

confer and the screen shows a 7.

The concessions kids applaud, and the point totals show

"Grounds   98", "Concessions 102" and "Lifeguards 102".

EVERYONE is confused, there has never been a tie before. THE

JUDGES Are flipping through papers, and BIG MIKE steps up to

the microphone.

The HEAD JUDGE is reading to the other JUDGES out loud, slaps

his hand on one of the papers and comes up to the mike.

Everybody cheers...they're going to see some more great

surfing.

The JUDGES signal COWBOY and ROBBIE to come over. The head

JUDGE takes a quarter out of his pocket and points to COWBOY

to call it. It lands and the JUDGE looks at it. HE points

to ROBBIE.

ROBBIE, ALEX, AOKEE and PIPEMAN have gathered in front of

AOKEE's to strategize.

PIPEMAN reaches into his tool belt and pulls out a roll.

They place the board on a table. ROBBIE pulls off two small

pieces of tape and places them on the board.

PIPEMAN gets his screw gun out of his tool belt and begins

removing the two outer fins of the board. He then begins

looping duct tap around the board to create two foot pockets.

This provides a background to the dialog below.

We hear an air horn blast.      They are ready to start.

He hands Robbie the board. ALEX heads back to the bleachers

area, PIPEMAN goes to the pumphouse in back of Thunder Bay.

AOKEE hangs back with ROBBIE and speaks to him alone.

AOKEE smiles and pats him on the back.    Robbie nods.    They

head for the bay.

COWBOY is in the water paddling out to get his wave. It

comes and he has apparently decided to stay with what has

gotten him this far; a conservative style that keeps him

looking good without falling. His ride is similar to the

last one, but even more graceful and lyrical and he gets a 9.

ROBBIE appears on the seawall holding his board and looking

out first at the bay, then at the crowd. His mom, CONNIE

waves, and he smiles weakly.

HE sees KATIE and she looks hopeful. She hasn't given up on

him completely. He smiles at her and gets into the water.

He begins paddling. It seems to take forever for him to get

out to the spot where he catches the wave, but he finally

arrives.

He sits there for a moment, collecting himself, then raises

his hand to signal he is ready.

The CONCESSIONS KIDS have started to chant, ROBBIE! ROBBIE!

The guards are anxious, but even they can't help moving to

the cadence of the chant.

The wave comes and he catches it quickly, and slips his feet

into the duct tape pockets. He misses one pocket at first,

then gets it in.

He rides it carefully and at the right moment slides up to

the top and executes a full 360 degree turn out of the water.

On landing back on the downside of the wave, he slides down

it quickly, and then turns around with a deep cut and heads

straight into the wave. At the top he bounces and does a

complete back flip in slow motion.

We see the crowd also in slow motion. AOKEE Is covering his

eyes, he can't watch. ALEX's face is contorted with

disbelief. Various faces in the crowd are in open-mouthed

disbelief. THE JUDGES are staring intently, focussed so as

not to miss anything.

ROBBIE lands the flip, and rides the rest of the wave.      He

waves to the crowd, and kicks off, exhausted.

The place goes nuts. No one here has ever seen anything like

this before. AOKEE and ALEX run into the water and help him

out. People are still cheering.

COWBOY knows he's in trouble.

THE JUDGES confer only momentarily and the score 10 appears,

and the word concessions starts flashing along with the word

winner. COWBOY nods in agreement.

TIFFANY says something to him, and he appears angry.      We can

only hear part of his response, something like:

AOKEE and ALEX lead him up to the grandstand. COWBOY also

makes his way up there, and we see him talking to BIG MIKE.

BIG MIKE nods in agreement and COWBOY goes to the mike as the

crowd settles down.

COWBOY shakes ROBBIE's hand, and ROBBIE speaks at the mike.

We see KATIE clapping, crying.   AOKEE and ALEX are clapping

and smiling.

ROBBIE holds the trophy high as everyone cheers.

Grounds kids are stacking chairs in preparation for final

closing. Tarps are being thrown over everything and tied

down.

Awnings are being taken down.     Chairs and tables are being

moved.

We see JAFFA packing up his CD's into that cardboard box.       HE

also snaps the winter covers for the sound equipment into

place.

A banner hangs over the time shack, "Thanks for another great

year". ALEX, ROBBIE, KATIE and AMY are clocking out for the

final time this summer.

They all stop and look around one final time.     Suddenly

TIFFANY drives up in her convertible.

They all walk closer to her car.

ALEX, ROBBIE, KATIE and AMY all say these lines pretty much

at the same time.

EDDIE appears out of the time shack wearing his tuxedo t

shirt.

He walks up to her driver's side.

EDDIE shows there is nothing in his hands, then reaches into

the car and from behind TIFFANY's ear pulls a plastic Easter

Egg out. He hands it to her, and she opens it. A beautiful

butterfly flies out and away. She is momentarily entranced.

EDDIE waves his hand for HER to scoot over so he can drive.

She is surprised, but does, almost reflexively. He gets in

and he looks at ALEX, ROBBIE, KATIE and AMY grinning broadly

as he pulls away.

ALEX, ROBBIE, KATIE and AMY just watch in stunned silence as

EDDIE and TIFFANY drive off.

The group begins walking toward the exit gate, as we go wide

and helicopter upward. They get smaller and smaller in the

shot as we hear the conversation continue.

We helicopter up for a final shot over the whole park.

