The soundtrack opens with Frank Sinatra's "Fly Me to the

Moon".

A HELICOPTER SHOT OF THE L.A. basin.

The pool of golden light disintegrates into the thousands of

points which constitute it as we rapidly draw closer to the

city.

We are just above the tops of the highest buildings as we

approach Hollywood Boulevard.  Below is neon and the icy

thrust of search lights rotating on the corner of Hollywood

and Vine.

We continue west, then quickly north.

There is the momentary appearance of the moonlit HOLLYWOOD

sign as we pass the blinking red beacon of the Capital

Records building and drop into Franklin avenue and over the

101.

Architectural remnants of Hollywood's past whip up.  We are

heading east at treetop level.  A warm glow in the distance

quickly grows into a modest commercial strip which includes

cafes, bookstores, and a theater.

We drop to eye level as we spy through the plate glass

showcase window of the "Bourgeois Pig" coffeehouse, which

holds the translucent reflection of the full moon.

A cigarette wedged between knuckles smoulders.  MIKE takes

the last drag with great effort, then crushes it out.  He

sits in the window sprawled across a red velvet couch that

once perfectly complemented a faux spanish foyer.

WINDOW - NIGHT

ROB sits down next to Mike, pouring himself some tea.

Close up on answering machine.  Mike pushes the button.

Mike's eyes light up.  He paces in anticipation as the tape

rewinds.

Mike fast-forwards to next message.

Tension grows with every inch of spooling tape.  Did she

leave a message?

The last one.  It's a long shot, but he's got the faith.

The LED goes black as the machine beeps off.  Mike picks up

the phone and hits autodial.

Machine beeps off.  Phone rings again, then is answered.

We hear the clicks of call-waiting-hold limbo.  The silence

is interrupted.

A long thoughtful pause.

Mike is dressed to the nines in classic vintage threads.

He's trying to look at ease as he straightens his cuff links.

He approaches Trent who suavely leans against his worn down

ride.  He's a tall, slim, good-looking cat.  His sharkskin

suit hangs well on his lanky frame as it tapers to his

ankles.  Sinatra's "Come Fly With Me" on the tape deck adds

an elegance to the scene.  They exchange an impish grin and

depart without saying a word.  Maybe this isn't such a bad

idea.

The NEEDLE IS PINNED.  The gauges are blurred by the

vibration of the poorly tuned engine.  The SHOT WIDENS to

reveal that the "Oil" and "Service" dummy lights are both

illuminated, causing an eerie red glow onto TRENT's white

knuckles.

Trent's car is red-lined.  The SWINGERS are Vegas bound.  Do

not pass go.

Mike twists up the Chairman of the Board as we...

The two swingers are starting to fray around the edges but

are unwilling to admit it to each other or themselves.  Frank

has been replaced by talk radio.

The needle is still buried.

Sleep deprivation and desert static radio.

Mike is sleeping in the passenger seat.

Trent points out a mountain range.  It is now the only thing

separating them from their destination.  The surreal glow of

the desert sky is accentuated by the loud slashing of the

cobalt and ruby lasers emanating from a source masked by

the craggy peaks.  Mike slowly stirs from his slumber.  He is

transfixed by this affrontation of nature.  It is his first

glimpse of the city without God.

The shrill cry of Basie's fat brass section heralds the

arrival of the young swingers.  Their eyes drink every watt

of golden light as Sinatra's crooning urges them on.

Mike has either had enough sleep or so little that it no

longer matters.  Either way, there's no turning back.

They roll up to a casino valet.  TILT UP to a skull and

crossbones which looms overhead.

The two guys walk and talk down a fluorescent hallway.  It is

well past midnight and the only patrons at this hour are

tourists too drunk to sleep and compulsive gamblers who snuck

out of their rooms without waking their wives.

It is a weeknight and it is beginning to become painfully

obvious that our boys are overdressed.

The decor is nautical plaster.  Castings of bearded men with

primitive prosthesis clutching daggers between their teeth

are everywhere.

All of ye olde promenade shoppes are closed.

The corridor empties into the equally kitch CASINO.

Trent contorts his face at a cute WAITRESS passing by with a

tray of drinks.

The waitress cracks a smile as she crosses away.  Mike is

visibly embarrassed.

Mike points to a semi-curtained, semi-roped-off area near the

baccarat tables.  The clientele is classier, but they're

still obviously overdressed.

Mike is at a blackjack table with Trent at his side.  The

game has paused to observe the newcomers as Mike draws a

billfold out of his breast pocket.  They're pulling it off

with only slightly noticeable effort.

Mike tries to hand the DEALER a handful of twenties after

counting them twice.

The other players grow impatient.

The dealer lays out the bills such that the amount is visible

to the camera encased in the black glass globe overhead.

Trent and Mike look up at it open-mouthed like turkeys in the

rain.

Mike's attention is recaptured by the dealer, but Trent

continues trying to peer through the smoked glass.

The dealer chirps out an unintelligible formality and the PIT

BOSS chirps the response.  Trent's focus whips away from the

camera as both he and Mike stare at the pit boss ten feet

away.

The dealer plunks down the measly THREE CHIPS which represent

Mike's entire cash reserve.  Not quite the effect he had

hoped for.

The swingers stare at the chips.  The players stare at the

swingers.  The dealer stares at the pit boss.

The dealer indicates a FIVE-DOLLAR TABLE across the room

where an Hispanic woman deals to a BLUEHAIR, a BIKER, and a

COUPLE in matching Siegfried and Roy T-shirts.

The swingers look back to the dealer who is now flanked by

the pit boss.

The tense silence is broken by...

Trent looks over to see that it's the same WAITRESS who

flashed him a smile earlier.  At first he begins to smile,

then, remembering that he is locked in a high stakes battle

of wills, subtly shakes her off.  She smirks and starts to

leave until she is interrupted by Mike holding up a finger.

It's a balsy move, but everyone's watching.  The kid's going

for broke.

Smooth.  Trent is impressed, but masks his pride.

Ow.  She exits.

Mike throws a chip in the circle.  Trent is shocked.  That's

a hundred bucks.  Mike and Trent share a look.  The dealer

and the pit boss exchange glances.  Bets are all down and the

cards are meticulously dealt.

The dealer has a two showing.  Mike has been dealt a five and

a six-

Everyone's waiting for them.

The dealer, the pit boss, and all the players look on as Mike

drops ANOTHER BLACK CHIP in the circle with a barely audible,

yet deafening, thud.

A bead of sweat.

The sharp snap of a dealt card.

It's a seven.

Disappointment twists their faces.

Finally the dealer flips over his card.

It's a king!

Flick - four.

Flick - five.

swingers who watch their chips slide away in silence.

Mike breaks the spell with a plucky smile from the pit of his

stomach.

Trent and Mike are wedged between the BLUEHAIR and the BIKER

At the FIVE DOLLAR TABLE.  They share a pile of red chips.

In the meantime, the Bluehair has been dealt an eleven.

This captures the swinger's attention.

Four.

Two.

Four!

Polite applause from around the table which the Bluehair

humbly waves off.  Mike looks at Trent.  Daggers.  Trent

shrugs.

A different PIT BOSS approaches.

Mike is presented a stack of twenties by the CASHIER, who

counts them out.  Trent looks on.

Mike throws her a disgusted look, then turns to go.  Trent

struggles to cheer him up.

Mike throws him a disgusted glare.

Mike looks away, shaking his head in disgust.

The same WAITRESS from before approaches the swingers as they

are about to leave.

The waitress smiles in spite of herself, shakes her head, and

walks away.

Tee is interrupted by the WAITRESS who, thank God, barely

missed his comment.

Mike can't believe it.  Tee is just making it happen.

Trent and Mike are looking at menus.  They're smoking at the

table because the can.

The COFFEE SHOP WAITRESS approaches the table.  She's cute,

but not nearly as hot as Christy.

It goes over like a lead balloon.

She takes the menus and goes.

Mike tries to catch the attention of their waitress, who is

passing with a huge platter containing a BREAKFAST BANQUET.

She passes their table and sets the ENTIRE FEAST in front of

the BLUEHAIR from the casino who sits alone.

Christy is at the bar wearing acid-washed jeans with a

matching denim top.  She's sexy in a pathetic mid-eighties

sort of way.  She's sitting next to a pretty brunette, LISA,

dressed in a similar fashion.

There is something bizarre about her appearance.  Her hair is

tied into long pig-tails with powder blue ribbons.  Her

makeup job is almost theatrical, with bright pink/red lips.

She can't be

The girls have already been flanked by a herd of potential

COURTIERS.

The SWINGERS saunter up to the girls in a smooth, SLOW-MOTION

SHOT.

The girls notice them.

The courtiers sense their rejection and part like the Red Sea

for the swingers in perfect slow-motion choreography.

Another lead balloon.  Uncomfortable silence.

More uncomfortable silence.

Mike rolls his eyes at how full of shit he is.

The swingers exchange a glance.

Beat.

Establishing shot of an Airstream trailer dug into the desert

on chocks.  Trent's car and two El Caminos are parked out

front.

The foursome, now somewhat more intimate, sit huddled around

the fold-out table.

They've been drinking whiskey and long-neck Buds, judging by

the recyclables.

The pairings seems to be Trent/Christy, Mike/Lisa.

The cramped compartment is filled with secondary smoke and

laughter.

They all crack up even more.

The room dies down.  The girls settle into the arms of their

men.  There's a lot of body language and pheromones, but not

a lot of words.

She gets up and leads Trent into the sleeping compartment to

the rear.  The door slaps shut.

Mike and Lisa, in all her made-up glory, look into each

others eyes.

Trent is already at work.  He's smooth.  A cascade of stuffed

animals tumble off the bed with every thrust.  Clothes start

to peel off.

Trent takes a breather.  He takes a step to the door.

Trent cracks the door and peers through.  The light is dim,

but he can make out that they're starting to neck.

He closes the door, satisfied.

What seemed like necking is actually Lisa and Mike huddled

tight having an intimate conversation.

Beat.

Mike gets up and approaches the door.

Mike lightly knocks on the door.

The door cracks.

Trent pokes a CONDOM through the door.

The door closes.

Lisa reassuringly shakes her head.

Beat.

Christy walks out wearing only Trent's sharkskin jacket as a

robe.

Trent follows with a towel wrapped around his waist.

Trent glares at Mike as they pass.  Daggers.

Mike dials.

Half naked Trent and Christy sit with fully clothed Lisa.

Trent is not happy.

Mike is on the phone.

Disappointment pulls at Mike's brow.

The girls clean up the bottles and ashtrays.  The coffee is

brewing.  The shades are up.  It's officially morning.

Trent's chin is in his hand.  He radiates the blue tinge of

glandular congestion.  He'll have no part of any of this.

Mike enters.

The girls immediately stop their chatter and look at him in

anticipation.

Mike shakes his head "no".

The girls walk to embrace him in consolation.

Trent just shakes his head.  He'll have no part of any of

this.

Establishing whot of Trent's car heading back to L.A. on the

northbound I-15.  The speeding car is dwarfed by the

expansive badlands.

Trent cranks some Frank.  "You Make Me Feel So Young".

Mike is finally, genuinely, smiling.

He turns down the music enough to talk.

Trent just smiles and cranks Frank back up

Trent's car drives off into the distance.  A sign reads:

"Los Angeles - 270 miles".

Establishing shot of MIKE and ROB teeing off with nine irons.

Rob wears a Yale sweatshirt.  Mike wears one from Queens

College.  A Mets cap shades his eyes.  Neither have shaved

and, odds are, neither showered.  They each carry a loose

nine blade and putter as they wander to their lie.

They split up and both over-chip the green miserably.

Mike and Rob putt.

Mike pulls out the flag for Rob's putt.  He misses.

Rob putts the "gimme".  He misses by an inch.

Rob taps it in.  He tends the pin or Mike, who misses.

Mike putts again, and misses.

Mike plunks it in.

The two of them count and recount as they revisualize each

shot in their head.  Throughout the process they count under

their breath and point to different parts of the fairway and

green.

The two of them revolve, point, and mumble for an absurdly

long amount of time until finally...

Rob points to the far-off crowd of a dozen IRATE GOLFERS

Waiting to tee off.

First of all, SUE is a

wearing an L.A. Kings home jersey.  His sweater bears the

sacred number "99".  Sue is lounging in front of the TV in

army surplus khaki cutoffs and untied Doc Martin boots.

Sue brushes back a shock of straight, greasy, dirty blonde

hair as not to obscure his view of the screen.  His face

glows with the reflection of the SEGA HOCKEY game on the set.

Sue and TRENT are locked in a heavily contested battle of

motor reflexes.  Nothing moves but their eyes, thumbs, and

mouths...

MIKE looks on.  He is more captivated with the simulated

sporting event than the Clippers game on the TV across the

room.

Electric guitars blaze over the stereo.

The room, like the guys, could use a spring cleaning.  Pizza

boxes, beer bottles, and full, full ashtrays.  You can taste

the smoke.

The PHONE RINGS.  Sue picks it up and balances it on his

shoulder as he plays.

Mike picks up the phone off the matted shag carpet.  He

pushes "9", listens, then hangs up.

The DELIVERY MAN knocks on the door.

While Sue gives Mike the money, Trent UNPAUSES the game and

checks Gretsky into the boards, leaving him writhing in a

pool of red pixels.

Sue dives onto Trent.  They wrestle a little too

rambunctiously for indoors.  Trent pulls the hockey sweater

over Sue's head and starts wailing on his back.

Mike crosses.  The CAMERA follows him down a shallow hallway

to the door.  He unlocks it.

A delivery man of eastern-hemispheric decent is out of breath

from four flights of stairs.  He hands Mike a twelve-pack of

Bud cans and three packs of Marlboro reds.

He can HEAR, but NOT SEE, the chaos ensuing in the living

room.

Trent and Sue are flushed.  They pause long enough to torment

Mike.

Mike forces an apologetic smile.  He is embarrassed.  The

delivery man doesn't seem to understand any of this.

Mike, out of guilt, hands him a four dollar tip.  This he

seems to understand.  He smiles and leaves.

Mike crosses back to the main room.

Mike throws him a pack of smokes, which he unravels with

surgical precision.

Cans of beer are tossed around and cracked.

MIKE and ROB walk down the dirty deserted alleyway.  Mike is

wearing baggy slacks, Doc Martin shoes, and an oversized

Eisenhower-cut jacket with a vertical stripe inset.  The

collar is large and pointy, but definitely not seventies.

His ensemble has more of an early sixties vibe.

Rob hasn't been at it quite as long.  He's wearing worn-in

Levies over worn-in boots and, the nineties standby, an

untucked flannel.

Mike walks with purpose.  He intermittently tries to pull

open locked steel doors along the alley.  Rob looks confused.

At this point they come upon an unmarked BLACK METAL DOOR,

which Mike successfully pulls open to reveal...

A smoke-filled, windowless, black-walled room.  There are

several round padded booths lining the walls.  The place is

packed, and the funk standard "Brick House" throbs over the

P.A..

A HANDHELD SHOT as the two guys serpentine to the mirrored

bar at the far end of the room.  Enshrined in its center is

a framed photograph of SINATRA smiling in approval as he

presides over the evening's activities.

Mike proudly points out the photo to Rob.

Mike catches the attention of a cute female BARTENDER.

She goes.

The bartender serves them their drinks.

Mike turns to see CHARLES.  A young black man with a tight

Dolomite fro.  He wears a black leather blazer over a black

turtleneck.  Just look up "cool" in the dictionary.

A handshake turns into a hug.

Shake.

MIKE, TRENT, SUE, CHARLES, and ROB sit around the round

scotch-plaid corner booth of the retro-hip coffee shop.  All

of our boys, with the exception of Rob, are classily dressed.

They wear a lot of black, brown, and gray with a splash of

gold and maroon.

The CAMERA REVOLVES around the table in a repeating

"Reservoir Dogs" style over the shoulder 360 DEGREE PAN.

The five swingers walk down the boulevard in a SLO-MO SHOT

which is extremely "derivative" of the "Reservoir Dogs"

credit sequence.

The scene is choreographed to Bennett's big band arrangement

of "O SOLE MIO".

Muffled music seeps through the door.  The swingers turn the

knob and enter...

The huge sunken living room is packed with people congealed

into circles of conversation and sipping cocktails.

EVERYTHING STOPS when they enter.  The music, the

conversations, all movement, everything.

Everyone in the room STARES at them standing in the doorway.

Beat.

The music starts back up and everyone returns to their

conversations.

The swingers weave their way through the crowd to...

The swingers fix themselves drinks from an assortment of

bottles cluttering the table.  The shamelessly paw at the

top shelf brands.

With that, the three of them peel off to work the room.

Trent and Sue are scouting some LADIES across the room.  One

wears a FUNKY OVERSIZED HAT.  Intermittent eye contact has

been established.

Mike and Rob have come back into the room.  They scout the

terrain.

Mike spots a pair of beautiful BLONDES in black.  They're

wearing stretch bell-bottoms and tops that expose their mid-

drifts.  The seventies never looked so good.

They make the approach.  With a great deal of effort, Mike

catches their attention...

... only to be interrupted by the party STOPPING to check

another entrance.

Beat.

The party RESUMES and the blondes redirect their attention to

Mike.  He is a little put-off but, God love him, he gets back

in there.

The blondes immediately enter back into their conversation as

if they were never approached.

Mike and Rob exchange defeated glances.

One more try.

Trent and Sue are trying to look like they're not paying

attention to the group of ladies they saw across the room.

Mike and Rob walk up to Trent and Sue.

Mike and Rob STARE DIRECTLY at the girls like a deer in the

headlights... a big no-no.

Trent and Sue react with frustrated disappointment.

Trent crosses away.

Mike's P.O.V. of Trent passing near and the GIRL IN THE HAT.

He says something, smiles, and points to her hat.  She

laughs.

Trent is having a sensitive one-on-one with the girl in the

hat.

Under Trent's affirmative response we hear the first haunting

TUBA PULSE of the JAWS THEME:

CLOSE UP of MIKE'S FACE as he looks on in HORRIFIED AWE from

afar.

The second TUBA PULSE accompanies Trent's sound of agreement:

EXTREME CLOSE UP of MIKE'S HORRIFIED EYES.

The third, and progressively faster, TUBA PULSE sounds under

Trent's response as the JAWS THEME begins to speed up and

fill out:

Mike, Rob, and Sue look on.

The group's P.O.V. of the conversation.

The JAWS THEME reaches its violent crescendo as the girl

looks into her purse.

Trent winks to the boys.  Smooth.

She comes up with a pen and writes our her phone number.

Trent crosses back as the music dies away.

Using his body as a shield so the girl can't see, but so his

boys can, he rips up and drops the number as he approaches

them.

The door opens.  The party PAUSES to look, then RESUMES.

Trent smiles and waves to her across the room.  She coyly

waves back and makes a "phone sign" with her hand.  Trent

nods and smiles.

Charles approaches the crew.

Overhead LONG SHOT of the swingers entrenched in the CROWDED

PARTY.

The swingers have left the party and are heading to their

cars.  They are all parked in a row, one behind the other.

They each climb behind the wheel of their own car.  They pull

out in UNISON.

They travel like a train with their bumpers ALMOST TOUCHING.

SHOTS of the CAR-TRAIN driving and making turns.

"O SOLE MIO" reprise.

The car-train BREAKS UP to nose-in park behind the bar.  They

all "club" their steering wheels.

The SWINGERS lounge in a booth against the cork-paneled wall,

sipping cocktails.  They watch MARTY and ELAYNE, the resident

lounge act, perform a jazz fusion cover of "Staying Alive" on

synth and upright bass.  The seventies are alive and well

here, but they're starting to yellow around the edges...

The room is busy, but not packed.

The swingers have all had a few.

Trent and Sue are involved in a different conversation.  They

are observing two HOT GIRLS at another cocktail table.

The girls are wearing short plaid skirts with black stockings

pulled up to midthigh.  It's the "catholic-school-girl-gone-

bad" look.

The girls are a little too touchy-feely with each other,

suggesting a certain sexual open-mindedness.

As they get up to leave...

They cross to the ladies.

Mike's P.O.V.

The girls seem at first cold, the receptive.  Trent and Sue

join their table and share some laughs.

Mike half-heartedly looks on.  He is obviously not happy with

where he stands on the bell-curve of masculinity.

Mike, looking for any kind of escape, crosses to the bar.

Mike unsuccessfully tries to catch the attention of the

middle aged BARTENDER.

A cute BLONDE sitting at the bar chuckles at his comment.

Mike is at first self-conscious, then pushes ahead.

She raises her finger and the bartender immediately

approaches.

He goes to fix it.

Mike notices the bartender, who has been waiting patiently

with the drink.

She chuckles.  He pays and throws down a two-dollar tip

apologetically.

He walks away kicking himself.  He is interrupted by Trent

and Sue, who both hold up cocktail napkins with scribbles.

Beat.  Mike smiles.

Mike nods and, energized by the bombardment, crosses back to

the bar and right into the fray.

Trent and Sue rejoin the other swingers.

Swinger's P.O.V. of Mike decisively engaging her in

conversation.

She laughs.

Out comes the pen and the cocktail napkin.  Bingo.

Mike crosses back to the swingers' table and, using his body

to shield Nikki's view, pretends to rip the napkin.  This

breaks the guys up.

Mike sits down and, after admiring the blotchy numerals,

delicately folds the napkin and pockets it.

Everyone reacts favorably to this area code.

The guys laugh.

The swingers are leaving through the back door.  The doorway

is congested with another group of guys who are entering.

A BALD GUY with a goatee brushes by Sue.

That's it.  Now they're squaring off in the empty parking

lot.

All the bald guy's boys fall in behind him.  All the swingers

fall in behind Sue.  The swingers are not happy with Sue at

all.

The two cliques contrast each other in every way.

The bald guys all have facial hair and multiple pierced

extremities with the odd neck-tattoo thrown in for good

measure.

Baggy denim and boots.  Pot leaves and Pumas.  Long, heavy

key chains.  Vintage 1994 whiteboy faux-gansta.  They do,

however, look big and mean next to our boys.

The early sixties style sweater jackets and blazers over

button down shirts and tapered slacks don't quite have the

same fear factor, but the boys do look classy.

The word "bitch" is growled out by the two of them a half

dozen more times until...

Sue pulls a PISTOL out of his belt.

Everyone is SCARED.  Especially the swingers.

The bald guys HOLD UP THEIR HANDS and slowly back up to their

ride.

They jump in the car and SPEED AWAY.

Sue belts the gun and stands tall like Clint.

Charles leaves.

Rob leaves, shaken up.

Mike walks to his car.

It's too late.  He's leaving.

Sue starts to open his mouth.

Mike opens the door and flicks on the lights in his sparsely

furnished single.

He drops his keys on the table and makes a bee line to the

answering machine.

He pushes the button.

Mike collapses into his futon and lights a smoke.

Beat.

He pulls out the COCKTAIL NAPKIN.  He stares at the number.

He looks at the clock.  2:20 AM.

He looks at the napkin.

He thinks better of it, and puts the napkin away.

Beat.

He takes out the napkin and picks up the phone.

He dials.

It rings twice, then...

Mike hangs up.

Beat.

He dials again.

Mike calls back right away.

He hangs up.

Beat.

He dials.

He dials again.  There's no turning back.

He dials yet again.

She hung up on him.

He's frozen.

He hangs up.

Beat.

He pulls the comforter off the futon and curls up in the

corner of the room.

MONTAGE FLASHBACK:

The following sequence is m.o.s. over Billie Holiday's "Maybe

You'll Be There."

YOUNGER MIKE catches his first glimpse of MICHELLE.  She

doesn't see him looking at her.  She is paying attention to

the lesson.

Mike approaches Michelle for the FIRST TIME.  She looks

beautiful when she looks up at him for the first time.

They're having a PICNIC with white wine, Cheese, prosciutto,

and French bread.  Mike plays a ukulele.

Mike and Michelle sit with a lap full of food.  They are

laughing about something.  Mike leans in for his first deep,

passionate KISS.  The crowd jumps up to cheer a Daryl

Strawberry home run which the lovers don't notice.  They stay

seated, kissing, and are lost to the CAMERA in the crowd.

Their first sexual experience.  Mike is obviously nervous as

he lies undressed under the covers.  He sporadically adjusts

his hair and strikes poses as he waits for Michelle to come

out of the bathroom.  This is INTERCUT with shots of the

closed bathroom door.

Mike and Michelle are Christmas shopping in the snow.  It's

like a story book.

A newspaper, barely noticeable on stand in b.g., reads "VITO

CORLEONE FEARED MURDERED"

Mike and Michelle lethargically lay across the couch.  They

half-heartedly watch a rented video as they shovel Chinese

take-out into their bloating faces.

Mike and Michelle say good bye.  They hug and cry.  He boards

a plane for L.A..

SHOT of answering machine.

He is.

He is sitting in the same corner, smoking, with a two day

beard.  He is surrounded by full ashtrays and empty Tropicana

containers.  Billie Holiday's "Maybe you'll Be There" draws

to a close on the C.D. player.

He hasn't moved.

The PHONE RINGS.

He looks to the answering machine hopefully as it picks up

after one ring.

His shoulders slack with DISAPPOINTMENT.  It's not Her.

Mike picks up the phone, pushes "9", and hangs up.

He lights a cigarette.

A knock at the door.

Mike opens it, and Rob walks in with a brown bag.

He surveys the scene.  He's seen this before.  He moves some

laundry off an armchair and sits down.

He pulls a pepperoni and a loaf of seminola out of the bag.

He hands Mike a pint of orange juice.

Mike shakes his head, "no".

Mike shakes his head again.

Rob cuts into the pepperoni with his Swiss army knife.  Mike

drinks his juice.

Mike half-smiles.

Beat.

Mike grabs his head in pain.

Beat.

Mike lets it sink in.

Mike smiles, then...

We see that Mike has been GNAWING AWAY at Rob's pepperoni and

semolina as he listens intently.

He helps Mike up.

Trent opens the door.  He sees Mike standing there dressed

for trouble.  His face lights up.

Mike HEARS the sound of a hotly contested SEGA MATCH.

The CAMERA follows Mike and Trent into the...

Mike's JAW DROPS when he sees that Sue has been playing

hockey against the BALD GUY from the Dresden.

The room is filled with the BALD GUY'S CREW.  They greet Mike

as they take hits off their forty ouncers.

They do a high-speed "controller handoff."

Sue crosses to Mike.

All the baldies howl and slap hands at something funny Tee

said.

The THREE SWINGERS are waved pass the line by the doorman in

a Scorsese-style STEADICAM SHOT which continues up the stairs

and through a curtained doorway into...

They enter the domed decco lounge and the full house parts

for them and greets them in perfect Scorsese choreography.

They pass the billiard table and the circular brass rail bar.

The six piece swing band decked out in zoot suits wail on

stage as the crowded dance floor whirls.

The swingers eventually settle into a dark curtained-off

onstage booth.

Sue thrusts a scotch into Mike's hand.

Montage of smoking, drinking, and carousing.

The parquet floor is packed with swinging hepsters dressed in

Hollywood's take on forties threads.  The dancing is full-

blown overcrowded slam swing.  The floor is full, and

everyone is damn good.  This definitely aint amateur night.

Mike steps up to the bar to refill his drink.  He sees a

BRUNETTE sitting at the bar.

She's cute.

Real cute.

She glows.

There's something fresh about her.  She's dressed nice, but

different.  She definitely is not a regular.

She throws Mike a half-smile, then looks away.

He looks away.

Should he?

He shakes his head to himself.  No.

Beat.

He looks over at her again.

Mike's P.O.V. of a WHITE BUNNY sitting on the bar stool.

He smiles, shrugs, and CROSSES TO HER.

When he gets to her she has reverted back to human form.

Trent points the conversation out to Sue from across the

room.

Trent and Sue's P.O.V. of Mike and Lorraine having an

unforced, enjoyable conversation.

BACK IN THE TRENCHES:

Trent and Sue are watching from across the room.

She gets up.  She's beautiful.  She is beautiful.

She's in great shape,  and look how classy her vintage dress

looks.  A vision from the forties.  She's too good for this

place.  She belongs on the nose of a B-52.  What can he say,

but...

He awkwardly leads her to the unusually empty dance floor.

They START TO DANCE.  It's a slow song and they boringly rock

back and forth.  Mike is self-conscious, but her touch.  Oh

her touch.

Trent and Sue watching in disbelief.

The couple's dance is cut short as there were only a few bars

left of the slow ballad.  Mike smiles politely in relief and

begins to lead Lorraine off the floor.

She pulls him back.  He's not getting off that easy.  She

wants a whole song.  He politely holds her, poised for

another slow number.  They're alone on the floor.

Much to Mike's dismay, the song begins with a DRIVING TOM TOM

SOLO.  This cues every hep cat in the Derby that the big

one's coming.  They all flood the floor for the last dance of

the night.

Mike pleadingly shakes his head at Lorraine.  It's too fast.

Her eyes narrow as her grip tightens.  No sympathy here.

The band breaks into the full-tilt swing number and the dance

floor writhes around them.

They stand motionless for what seems like an eternity.

Gut check.  Fuck it.  Sink or swim.

Mike grabs her like a man grabs a woman.  It's just a simple

six-count swing step, but they're in perfect harmony.

Mike and Lorraine look into each others eyes.  It's on, baby.

As Mike's courage grows, the moves start to flow.  A spin at

first.  Then a double twirl.  It's not long before he's

throwing her through combinations that stand out even among

the pros.

Trent and Sue, mouths agape.

Mike is whipping her smoothly through violent-looking

combinations without a trace of hesitation, and, boy, can she

follow.

The set ends with a flourishing crescendo.  They're frozen in

a final dip, panting through a glaze of clean sweat.

Mike and Lorraine smile and look into each other's eyes.  The

smile slowly disappears.  Will they kiss?

They're close.

Really close.

Lips almost touching.

Mike tries to muster-up the courage, but it's been so long.

He can't do it.  He lets her up.

The floor clears.  Exhausted dancers push past them.  Forget

it.  The moment's gone.

What the hell.  They had a great time.  What's the hurry?

Mike is walking Lorraine to her car.  They come upon a parked

Escort.

Mike hands her a business card.

Beat.

Beat.

Mike leans in and slowly gives her the sweetest, softest,

most innocent kiss.

He backs up.  She's got that goofy look as she unlocks her

club and starts the car.

She drives off.

He watches her go.

Mike is driving Trent and Sue home in his car.

Trent and sue pretend to cry and hug each other.

Mike looks at them in the rear view mirror.

He smirks and shakes his head.

Trent and Sue scream at the top of their lungs as they cruise

down Sunset.  Alcohol is a terrible drug.

Mike is standing in the middle of the room looking at

LORRAINE'S NUMBER on the back of the BUSINESS CARD.

He looks at the clock.

2:45 A.M.

He looks back at the NUMBER.

Beat.

He thinks better of it.  He wedges it into a crack in the

answering machine and unbuttons his shirt for bed...

Mike smirks.

Mike wakes up and rolls out of bed.

He walks to the phone and pulls the CARD out of the crack.

He looks at the clock.

12:10 PM.

He sticks it back in the crack.

He makes an "x" on a day of his calendar.

Mike brushes his teeth.

He looks at the card clipped into the frame of the bathroom

mirror.

He turns the faucet, allowing exactly ONE DROP of his

precious Los Angeles water supply to drip onto his

toothbrush.

He resumes brushing.

Mike sips espresso as he stares at the CARD.

Mike is playing solitaire with the CARD laying above all the

playing cards.

The PHONE RINGS.

Mike rushes to get it, then forces himself to wait another

ring and a half exactly.

The BEEP of Mike's CALL WAITING.

He clicks to the OTHER LINE.

He clicks back to the OTHER LINE.

Mike SWITCHES LINES, cutting Michelle off mid-sentence.

Mike holds his palm over the receiver and looks at the

answering machine.

Beat.

Mike smiles.

Back to Lorraine.

MEDIUM SHOT of Mike through his window as he looks down onto

Franklin avenue and talks on the phone.

Mike smiles as the CAMERA PULLS BACK from the window and

backwards down Franklin Avenue in a reverse of the first shot

of the movie.  The soundtrack kicks in with Sinatra's "Here's

To The Losers"....

...We rise and pass the glowing Hollywood sign. It's still a

full moon...

.... Past the blinking red beacon of the Capital Records

building...

... Up and over Hollywood Boulevard.  High above the city...

... It's all just a pool of beautiful golden light.

