Tin Cup sits on the couch, swigging Maalox.

A CAR HORN SOUNDS from outside.

Romeo opens the door, and steps outside.

Romeo steps outside to greet Simms.   Warily.

Romeo and Simms under the awning.   A spiffy new car

parked nearby.

DAVID SIMMS, 38, looking every bit like the successful

tour pro he is... Payne Stewart to Tin Cup's Maynard G.

Krebs.

Romeo is evasive.

Banners and galleries and concession tents create the

atmosphere of a polite circus.

- DAY

BILLY MAYFAIR putts out on the 16th green to polite

applause.

The two twosomes tee off and the caddies follow,

including Tin Cup.

A leader board reads:   SIMMS/STADLER -10, MICKELSON/

MCCORD -8.

A giant gallery lines the fairway and rings the distant

green which is fronted by a lake, as:

STADLER hits a three wood toward the green -- the BALL

PLUNKS in the middle of the lake. The GALLERY GROANS.

Stadler just shrugs to Simms, as if to say, "I thought I

had enough club."

Simms swivels his head around to look at Tin Cup.

Simms looks away, at the shot he's facing: a two hundred

fifteen yard carry over water. He looks back at Tin Cup,

shaking his head.

Tin Cup's Caddy pulls up and   he gets out, goes to the

front of a store that is now   a health services office.

He looks around warily -- as   if someone might see him

entering such a place -- and   ducks inside.

It's the exit, "cool down" room, not the waiting room.

Tin Cup sits nervously, he's slightly overdressed for

the occasion. He looks childlike.

The door to the inner office opens -- a woman comes out

and sits down across from him. She's weeping

uncontrollably. He stares. He fidgets. He's nervous,

out of place.

Finally Molly enters through the same door because she

hears the crying. She sees Tin cup -- an awkward moment,

then --

Tin Cup slips into the main office while Molly consoles

the weeping woman.

Tin Cup is dutifully lying on the couch because he

heard that's what you do. He stares at the ceiling.

Molly enters and sits down.

He sighs and plunges in.

Tin Cup tosses down yet another drink, and staggers

around the room with his driver until, finally, he

collapses in a heap on the floor. Romeo looks down

at him coolly, like horse trainer Wayne Lukas sizing

up his Derby entry.

Romeo tosses a blanket over Tin Cup lying on the floor.

Two figures hurry across the lawn to the first tee.    Our

intrepid Don Quixote and Sancho Panza.

The first tee -- the early morning air is heavy and

still. The course is quiet and wet with dew. The

gallery is sparse. The silence is broken by the

starter's voice.

A half-dozen people clap, and --

Tin Cup and Romeo stagger to the tee, barely making it on

time. Tin Cup is massively hung-over and unshaven.

Tin Cup tries to get warm quickly, taking a few hurried

practice swings. The early tee times are strictly for

the longest of long shots, and almost nobody is around.

Tin Cup's hand shakes as he closes the Velcro flap on his

glove. He's wearing the hat and shirt with the sew-on

patches, as he stares down the first fairway.

Romeo hands him a driver.

This is the old Tin Cup -- and he's in the clubhouse with

an eightyfuckingthree.

Pouring rain -- Lightning and THUNDERSTORMS.   It pours

down on the club and the beat-up RV.

Romeo stands outside with an umbrella, dragging on a

cigarette, trying to stay warm.

Tin Cup and Molly in bed, lit only by light spilling in

from a parking lamp. They make love with enthusiasm,

finally wobbling to a stop.

Silence, except for the rain.   Until:

They embrace with enthusiasm and start thrashing again.

Romeo's patience is getting thin.   He pounds on the door.

The rain keeps coming down.

Galleries line fairways and fill stands. The course is

wet, the skies threatening, but play is underway.

JIM NANTZ in the booth.

Doreen is behind the till. The regulars and several

customers crowd the counter, staring up at the TELEVISION

as Dewey rushes in from his job.

Silence, everyone watching the TV, everyone starting to

contort in body-English, then:

A joyous roar -- Tin Cup's putt went down.    Earl twirls

with glee.

The MONITOR shows Tin Cup approaching his ball in the

fairway. Ken Venturi is commentating.

Tin Cup and Romeo survey the shot -- a long downhill

carry over a lake to a slightly elevated green. A shot

similar to the one he pulled off at the best-ball.

Tin Cup looks at the iron Romeo proffers. He looks back

at the shot, throws some grass in the air, testing the

wind. He looks at the gallery, the lake, the green, the

whole grand setting... and then:

He locates Molly behind the gallery ropes, watching.    She

makes a little charging gesture with her fist. And:

Tin Cup reaches defiantly past Romeo and pulls out the

three wood.

Venturi and Nantz watch Tin Cup set up to play the shot.

his ball... And he swings -- The ball arches off his

club, the gallery roars, and...

... Tin Cup drops the three wood on his bag, even as:

LAKE

The ball plunks in the water inches short of dry land.

The GALLERY GROANS.

BACK UP FAIRWAY

Tin Cup smiles at Molly with chagrin but not defeat.    He

turns to Romeo.

Tin Cup hits a wedge to within five feet.

Tin Cup is on the dais, fielding questions from

REPORTERS.

Laughter from the reporters.       Reporter #1 follows up.

Tin Cup, Molly, Romeo all asleep -- In the same bed.

showing Simms -8 through twelve, Jacobsen -7 through

fourteen and McAvoy -7 through seventeen.

A huge gallery lines the fairway and girds the green as

Tin Cup approaches his ball in the middle of the fairway.

The fans holler "You da man" at Tin Cup.

Nantz and Venturi in the booth. Tin Cup is on the

monitor, arriving at his ball. We hear SHOUTS from the

GALLERY, encouraging him to go for the green.

Romeo palms the seven iron, waiting for Tin Cup to decide

on his play.

Romeo picks up some grass and flips it in the air.   It

blows away from the green.

The announcers see Tin Cup taking out the three wood.

Tin Cup steps up to his shot.

He swings and holds the pose. He caught the ball

perfectly -- it sails high and true into the luffing

breeze, the GALLERY ROARS, and...

... the ball drops, SPLOOSH! into the WATER, a couple

feet short of dry land. The GALLERY GROANS.`

BACK TO TIN CUP

Staring amazed, almost betrayed, that his ball didn't

carry the water.

Tin Cup's eyes blink with thought as Romeo's words get

through to him.

And he starts down to the water. A THUNDEROUS OVATION

greets his approach, and he raises his hat to salute the

fans saluting him.

Tin Cup snarls at the impudent question of Reporter #3.

A low-rent roadside cafe specializing in waffles.

Tin Cup, Molly and Romeo study the menu.

But the Regulars overwhelm her.

They all pull up chairs and settle in for a long evening

at the Waffle House.

Tin Cup leans back in his chair, turns to Molly.

Romeo leans over to Doreen amidst the chaos and speaks

with suave elegance.

All twelve of them are asleep or nearly so in the R.V.,

sprawled on and over every surface. Much snoring.

CLOSE ON MOLLY

Her face close to Tin Cup's.    Both awake.

They stare nervously.

Silence.   Molly's in charge.    She hands them a roll of

cash.

Earl reluctantly takes the money.

Tin Cup hits putts, intense, focused.    Peter Jacobsen

works his way over to Tin Cup.

Tin Cup looks up, amused by the gamesmanship.

And he moves off to putt. Tin Cup drops a couple balls

on the green to putt, and:

A ball rolls past them and into a hole.   Tin Cup looks

over and sees Simms.

A large gallery surrounds the tree and lines the fairway

as:

Boisterous applause.   Tin Cup tips his cap and nods at

David Simms, his pairing in this the final twosome of the

final round of the U.S. Open.

And Tin Cup moves to the tee.

His hand shakes worse than it did the first day as he

tees his ball. Stepping back to line up his shot, he

peers down the fairway through a narrow corridor of

faces. A daunting sight. He edges over to Romeo and

tautly whispers:

Tin Cup looks at his ball, almost invisible in the deep

rough. He tries to locate the green beyond the trees

that surround him. In golf parlance, he's in jail. He

selects a club.

Tin Cup points over the trees.   Romeo grimaces.   Tin Cup

addresses the shot. Then:

Tin Cup swings -- the ball flutters weakly out of the

rough and disappears into the branches of a bushy tree,

dropping eventually next to its trunk, and:

A scorer changes the number beside Tin Cup's name from -7

to -5.   Simms is still -7.

Tin Cup arrives on the tee where Simms now has the honor.

Molly and Doreen stand together behind the big gallery.

Molly is using a cardboard periscope to look over the

gallery to the green. Doreen is on her tip-toes but all

she can see are the backs of heads.

A swell of cheers builds, then turns to groans.

Molly puts down the periscope at that remark, and hands

it to Doreen.

Doreen looks through the periscope.

PERISCOPE'S POV - TIN CUP

lining up a putt.   She pans over to Romeo helping him.

The regulars study the board -- the scruffiest lot ever

seen at an Open. Next to them stand a group of U.S.G.A.

officials, all in neat, matching blazers. The contrast

is thrilling.

The scorer changes the number beside Tin Cup's name to

-- -4. Simms is -7, and --

Wright looks at the monitor where Tin Cup stands among

some trees.

Tin Cup's ball lies on dirt next to the trunk of a tree.

He surveys his options. Behind him, wearing a headset,

McCord analyzes the situation for the TV viewers.

Tin Cup glares balefully back at McCord. Then he walks

over to a nearby tree, and surveys the line to the green

from it. He walks back for his ball, turns to McCord...

and we see that familiar fierceness aflame in Tin Cup's

eyes.

And he selects the seven iron, addresses the ball right- handed,

and:

He swings -- the ball rockets low off his club, and...

... it ricochets off the trunk of a nearby tree, and...

... it bounces up the fairway, skitters past a trap, and

trickles onto the green, stopping ten feet from the pin.

The gallery goes crazy as Tin Cup steps from the woods

collecting his money from McCord while jabbing a taunting

finger at Simms.

Nantz and Wright stare at the monitors.

Simms ignores Tin Cup's taunt, and lines up his shot.

And he hits his iron to the fat part of the green, and --

The scorer posts a -5 next to Tin Cup's name.   Simms is

still at -7, and --

Tin Cup intently follows the flight of his iron shot, as:

The ball lands near the front of the green, bounces, then

rolls, following the contour of the green. It finally

stops five feet from the pin.

A SWELLING, DEAFENING ROAR from the GALLERY accompanies

the unfolding shot, and --

Jacobsen looks toward the roar at the ninth green.

The scorer posts a -6 next to Tin Cup's name.   Simms is

still at -7.

Molly and Doreen watch Tin Cup drain a putt.

And as the gallery falls silent, she turns to watch Tin

Cup.

Tin Cup's firmly-struck putt spins out of the hole.    The

GALLERY GROANS, sharing his agony, and --

Jacobsen, pausing to watch, sighs with relief before

starting down the fairway.

Tin Cup follows the flight of his approach, and up ahead

on:

Peter Jacobsen hears the GALLERY ROAR.   He turns to his

caddie, incredulous.

And he snatches his driver from the bag, determined to

make birdies.

The scorer posts -7 next to Tin Cup's name.    Simms is

still at -7, as is Jacobsen. And...

Jacobsen rolls a long putt into the hole, and as the

GALLERY CHEERS, he points a finger of challenge back at --

Tin Cup waiting in the fairway.   Tin Cup seems to enjoy

the taunt.

And he selects a club, and...

Tin Cup's fans, deeply into the beer by now, contort with

body-english and holler at the TV screen.

They explode with cheers.   Some twirl with glee.   Others

exchange high fives.

The leader board is superimposed on the monitor.    McAvoy

-8, Jacobsen -8, Simms -7.

Tin Cup and Romeo watch Jacobsen hit his shot.

He moves to the tee, and...

The monitor shows Tin Cup's drive bounding down the

middle of the fairway.

Tin Cup whispers to Romeo as Simms tees up.

Simms rips a drive down the middle, the ball landing

a little short of Roy's.

Tin Cup in the fairway, studying his shot.

He looks at Simms, ten yards across the fairway from him.

Simms points to himself. He has a wood in his hands, but

he puts the club back and reaches for an iron. Tin Cup

edges closer to Romeo.

BACK TO TIN CUP

He selects the three wood.    Romeo sighs.

Tin Cup's eyes focus with the look of eagles as he

addresses the shot.

He swings -- the ball explodes off his club.   Tin Cup

holds the pose...

Suddenly a gust of wind blows, out of nowhere, and Tin

Cup's cap blows off, provoking immediate concern.

Picking up the flight of the ball approaching the green,

carried it seems by the swelling roar of the gallery.

The ball clears the water...

... and lands at the top of the slope fronting the

elevated green. It pops up in the air, lands just past

where it hit, and comes momentarily to rest. The gallery

roars. And then:

The ball starts trickling back down the slope, gaining

speed, moving towards the water, even as the gallery

screams for it to stop...

... until finally it disappears into the water with

scarcely a ripple.

He stares first with betrayal, then with anger, and

looks at Romeo, who just shrugs, then at Molly.

But Tin Cup still has the look of eagles. He's staring

at the shot he just made, still holding the three wood.

Tin Cup throws another ball on the ground.

Tin Cup addresses the ball.

Venturi nearly comes out of seat watching Tin Cup take a

drop from his original lie.

Tin Cup swings again -- The ball sails long and true once

again, and once again...

back into the water.

Holding his hand out to Romeo, as the gallery murmurs

uncomfortably.

BACK TO DOREEN AND MOLLY

watching behind the ropes.

waiting at the green, amidst the rest of the gallery

who's in shock about Tin Cup's decisions to keep going

for it, keep trying to prove a point.

REGULARS' POV

Tin Cup swings a third time.

A BALL lands SPLOOSH! in the WATER, and...

Tin Cup holds out his hand for yet another ball, saying

nothing.

Romeo hands him another ball.

Tin Cup unloads another 3-wood.    Another splash.

Tin Cup holds out his hand again.

Tin Cup snatches the ball from Romeo's hand.

Venturi and Nantz can barely look at the monitor.

Venturi and Nantz cover their eyes.

Tin Cup unloads another three wood -- another splash.

He looks at Molly.

CLOSE ON MOLLY

She's just laughing.

Romeo tosses down another ball -- Tin Cup launches

his fifth attempt to clear the pond. Splash.

BACK TO TIN CUP

This is still all business to him.    He sets his jaw,

addresses the shot, and:

He swings -- another perfect shot... but this time the

wind relents a knot, and:

clears the water, clears the slope, hits the front of the

green, rolls up toward the pin, and drops in the hole.

The gallery goes berserk!

Raising his three wood aloft in triumph, he looks over at

Molly and finally cracks a smile.

And when she smiles back, he takes his hat off and walks

to the green, to as great an ovation as the game has ever

heard.

Venturi and Nantz slump, drained, over their monitors.

Tin Cup and Simms sign their cards and get up to leave in

unison. Simms turns to Tin Cup and has to shake his

head.

And he moves brusquely past Simms and out of the tent,

congratulating Tubbs, the winner, as he passes.

And out of the scorer's tent...

A roar goes up from the milling fans as Tin Cup emerges.

He tries to smile, but it's all dawning on him.

And then McCord is there, shoving a mike in Tin Cup's

face.

