The high desert -- absolutely silent -- a vast, hard land-

scape stretching away to distant mountains.  The silence is

broken by hoof-beats.

It's a simple cabin dwarfed by a big, ramshackle barn.  EDGAR

DEEMS (60s), a weathered desert rat of a hermit, is walking

his donkey around in circles.

Now, rattling toward them down an endless dirt road, comes an

old, sun-bleached Buick.  It stops and out leans OLD FRED

(70s) wearing a sweat-stained fedora.  The two friends nod.

Old Fred climbs out with a bushel basket of carrots.

Edgar takes the carrots and feeds one to the donkey.

The men nod, and Old Fred drives off.

CLOSE-UP of the donkey's hooves thumping along as Edgar leads

her to the barn.

But, suddenly, we hear the donkey restlessly stomping its

hooves and braying.  Edgar turns, concerned.  Now we hear an

odd sound.  Distant thunder?  The wind?  The donkey gets more

and more frantic.

The barn shudders violently.  Frightened birds explode from

the eaves.  Dust puffs from every old seam.  Roof shingles

rain down.  Edgar stares in amazement.

Then another sound -- the donkey starts screeching in wild

panic.

Edgar races back to the barn and flings open the doors.

Dust swirls through the air.  But -- the barn in empty.  No

donkey.  Now Edgar is hit by a ghastly stench.  He staggers

back, and covers his nose with a handkerchief.  Then he sees,

splattered across the walls --

He raises his arms above the door frame.  When he lowers them

he's holding a 12 gauge shotgun.  He races outside, ready to

shoot, but there's nothing -- as far as the eye can see.

The sun lights up spectacular sheer cliffs which plunge 1000

feet from a ruggedly beautiful high-desert plateau.  At the

top of the cliffs, silhouetted against the dawn, a lone cow-

boy seems to gaze in deep contemplation at the sunrise.  As

we MOVE IN, we realize he's actually peeing over the cliff.

This is VALENTINE MCKEE (25).  Smart and good looking, Val

has nevertheless managed to underachieve brilliantly.  He

coasts through life, following the path of least resistance

-- which has brought him to this dubious rustic existence on

the edge of civilization.  But lately he's beginning to

wonder why he hasn't accomplished more in his 25 years.

As a few sleepy cows gaze at him, sleepy Val shuffles over to

his battered old pickup truck.  A hand-painted sign on the

door reads: "V & E -- All Type's of Job's."  Indeed, the

pick-up bed is jumbled with tools and supplies for every

conceivable odd job -- and the noisily snoring form of his

partner huddled in a dirty sleeping bag.  Val raps on the

side of the truck.

No response from the sleeping bag.  Val stares at the cows

chewing their cud -- and perks up as he gets an idea.  He

gently steps onto the truck's running board, then suddenly

starts jumping up and down as hard as he can, rocking the

truck violently.

The sleeping bag tries to get up and run for it.  It tumbles

out of the back of the pickup.  While Val laughs uproar-

iously, EARL BASSET (43) claws his way out of the bag, looks

around wildly, and finds himself staring at three motionless

cows.

Earl is a good-ol' boy who has lived his life just like Val,

drifting from job to job.  He knows why

plished anything, and often tries to impart his hard-won

wisdom to Val, but the last thing the younger man wants is

advice.

Earl stretches.  The men begin a silent ritual:  Earl gropes

through his pockets for a cigarette, but only finds a

lighter.  Meanwhile, Val digs in his pockets, coming up with

cigarettes, but no lighter.  Typical of these two, each guy

always has half of what he needs.  Eventually they sort it

out,  trading the necessary implements.

Earl reaches for a coffee-pot on a battered Coleman stove on

the tailgate.  But it's cold.

Earl raises his fist.  This is The Challenge, and it instantly

triggers the partners' conflict-resolution technique.  They

solve all disputes using the children's game of "scissors,

rock, paper."  Earl raises his fist in response.  The game is

played swiftly and silently -- one, two, three.  On three,

Val mimes "paper" (open hand.  Earl mimes "scissors" (two

extended fingers).  Scissors cuts paper.  Val has lost.  He

shrugs and starts pumping up the stove fuel tank.

Val and Earl are restringing a dilapidated, and seemingly

endless, barbed wire fence.  A few bored cows watch them.

Earl's hand slips and the fence snags him right through his

thick glove.

Val gestures to the vastness around them.

Val guides the truck down a tortuous, rocky, almost impas-

sable trail.  It takes full concentration as he fights the

steering wheel, shifts, rides the brake and leans out trying

to pick a decent route.  Earl braces his feet on the dash and

munches breakfast, a raw hot dog right out of the package.

Earl pulls a box of Hershey bars from under the seat.  There's

only one bar left.  He sets the box down between them.  Val

glances at it -- and raises his fist: The Challenge.  One,

two, three.  Val mimes "paper;" Earl mimes "rock."  Earl

loses.  Val takes the bar.

THWONK!  The truck lurches to a stop, its frame caught on a

big rock.  Val glares at Earl.

The pick-up turns from a dirt road onto an old paved road.

Earl consults a crumpled list pulled from inside his hat.

But Val is peering at the desert up ahead.  Off the road a

ways is a small Toyota pick-up truck and, beside it, a lone

figure trying to flag them down.

Earl braces himself, knowing what Val will do.  Val swerves

the truck wildly off the road, barreling across the desert.

Earl shakes his head, mildly bemused as they slide to a stop

in a cloud of dust.

Val looks out hopefully.  The dust clears.  He sees her --

RHONDA LeBECK, (25).  Val's eyes do an expert vertical scan:

short brown hair, small brown eyes, so-so chest, legs hidden

in baggy dungarees.

Laden with a portable computer, notebooks, and some

seismograph printouts, she stares at him through tilted

glasses.  Her little pick-up truck is loaded with geology

field equipment.  She shakes Val's hand firmly.

Rhonda smiles.

Rhonda unhappily turns back to her equipment as Val and Earl

drive off.

Earl glances over at Val with a gleam in his eye.

Val flips down the truck's sunvisor.  Tapes to it are snap-

shots of nearly identical blonde bimbos.  Val points to one.

Val rolls his eyes -- "Give me a break."

The pick-up rattles toward a tiny, utterly isolated high

desert hamlet -- a few dozen houses and mobile homes fighting

for shade in the vast landscape.  Its most prominent feature

is an aging wood-frame water tower, perhaps 25 feet high,

near the center of town.  A sign PANS into view --

"PERFECTION -- Pop. 14."

Val and Earl head past the water tower for Pham Van's General

Store, Perfection's main gossip stop and only business.  The

store's sign, in English

Haircuts, Post Office, Town Hall,

next to a camouflage-painted, large-tired Blazer.

Just then they spot MELVIN, the town's surly teen-aged pain-

in-the-ass, coming toward them, mindlessly bouncing a

basketball off the hoods of parked cars.  As he nears their

truck:

But he steers clear of their truck.

Inside, the energetic Vietnamese owner, PHAM VAN, presides

over his all-purpose establishment: part general store, part

barber shop, part saloon.

At the bar are BURT GUMMER and his wife HEATHER, two no-

nonsense survivalists who have settled in Perfection to await

the coming apocalypse -- a nice enough couple, but there's a

hint of paranoia around the edges.  Burt is shoving a box of

cartridges across to Pham.

When Val and Earl enter, Pham automatically pops the tops on

two cold beers and has them in place before the cowboys reach

the bar.  Everyone exchanged nods.

Heather and Pham laugh.  Burt smiles patiently.  Just then

the compressor in Pham's ice cream freezer comes on.  It's a

loud chug-chug-chug sound mixed with a high-pitched squeal.

He starts toward the compressor, but Earl heads him off.

As they turn to go, Val does a take, amazed, as he spots a

decorative bleached-out cattle skull displayed on the counter

-- with a $29.95 price tag.

Suddenly a car alarm blares from outside.  Burt's out the

door in a flash.  The others follow.

Burt races out and shouts at Melvin who back guiltily away

from Burt's camouflage Blazer.

Burt angrily switches off the alarm.  Val and Earl laugh as

they climb into their truck.

At one end of town, Earl maneuvers a huge bulldozer with a

scoop-loader blade through a choking cloud of dust, scouring

out a shallow pit to serve as a watering hole.  Val sights

down a row of stakes which mark one end of the pit.  The job

is done.  He signals Earl to cut the engine.  Both men have

kerchiefs covering their faces and are totally encrusted with

dust.

Nearby is an old battered truck trailer -- the massive, solid

steel kind used for heavy rock hauling.  Tires flat, mired in

dried mud and weeds, it hasn't been used in years.  Now it

provides welcome shade as the men sit sipping some coffee.

NESTOR CUNNINGHAM drives up, surveying the pit with approval.

Earl and Val start fishing in their pockets for pen and

paper.  Earl comes up with various pieces of paper, Val with

three or four pens.  It's a moment before they realize each

has the other needed implement.  Earl writes out the bill

during:

Val and Earl exchange pained looks.

They amble over to their truck.  Earl takes the driver's side

-- and starts fishing in his pockets for the key.

Val realizes he has the key and hands it over.

CLOSE ON a stencilled sign: PHAM VAN'S U-RENT -- CESSPOOL,

SEPTIC TANKS.  PULL OUT to see Val and Earl have rented a

portable septic pump (perhaps trailer mounted).  The aged

machine reeks of and drips with its ignoble cargo.  The

intake hose has been repaired so often it looks to be more

tape than hose.  Grimacing Val threads the slimy hose down

through the open top of Viola's cesspool.

Beside them is Viola's well-kept mobile home on a low hill

not far from Pham Van's store.  Well-kept flower gardens

surround the place.  VIOLA, a sweet little old lady, watches

the men work while straining to hold the leash of her tiny

but ferocious dog.  The dog yaps continuously, lunging at

Val and Earl.

Val gets up and starts the pump's gas engine.

Earl angrily throws the pump valve and starts the pump

mechanism.  He and Val on stand either side of the intake

hose as it gurgles happily.

POW!  GOOOOSH!  The gurgling intake hose ruptures, showering

them with -- well you know.  They react as if they'd been

shot; gagging, staggering, screaming obscenities.

Val and Earl's beat-up mobile home is just down the street

from Pham Van's store.  Val and Earl, now in cleaner clothes,

march out resolutely.  Val has a portable TV in one hand and

a framed COORS beer sign in the other.  Earl unhooks the

clothes line and dumps it, clothes and all, into the back of

their truck, on top of the rest of their belongings.

They stare at each other for a moment.  This is it.  No going

back.  They leap into the truck.  As they drive off, Val leans

out and yanks their wooden nameplate ("E. Basset -- V. McKee")

off the mailbox.

They haven't gone fifty yards when they spot NANCY STERNGOOD

(40s) working in front of her house.  The guys pull their

hats low over their faces.  Earl swerves to the far side of

the street.

Nancy spots them and beckons excitedly.

They stop beside Nancy.  While they talk, Nancy's daughter,

MINDY (9), comes bouncing along on her pogo-stick, listening

to her Walkman and slowly circling the truck.

Val and Earl glance at each other -- five hundred dollars!

The truck roars toward the "Leaving Perfection" sign.  Val

and Earl are elated, downright giddy.

They zoom past the sign.

They laugh, then are thrown half out of their seats as Earl

accidentally hits a big pothole.

As the truck streaks across the landscape.  Val and Earl

merrily continue their good-byes to whatever is visible.

On its way down from the high desert, the lonely road now

winds through a twisting, narrow canyon.  A county highway

maintenance truck is parked to one side and two road workers,

CARMINE and HOWARD, repair a slide-damaged section of the

road, Carmine breaking up asphalt with a jackhammer.  Val and

Earl pull up, hand them each a beer, and speed away, shouting:

The pick-up speeds past a small shack.  Val and Earl

automatically roll up their windows.  In a moment we see why:

a monster, ferocious dog comes galloping out to chase their

truck.  Earl gives the dog the finger.

Old Fred latches the gate on his corral filled with sheep.

He looks up as Val and Earl's truck speeds past.  Val and Earl

honk their horn and wave happily.  Old Fred waves back.

The pick-up zooms along, the road now paralleling a line of

tall high-tension electrical towers.

The guys have calmed down, but each is still dreaming of a

new life.

Val points up ahead -- a man is sitting near the top of a

distant electrical tower.

But as the pass the tower:

Earl pulls over.  They climb out and peer up at the tower.

Edgar is hard to see through the criss-crossing girders.

Edgar doesn't move.  Val and Earl shift about uncomfortably.

They stare at each other.  Someone's got to climb up.  Val

raises his fist in The Challenge.  Their fingers fly.  Rock

breaks scissors.  Val loses.

Valentine unhappily climbs the tall tower while Earl watches

from below.

Higher and higher Val climbs.  He tries not to look down.

He's approaching Edgar from below and behind.  As he gets

nearer he begins to notice forboding details: one of Edgar's

shoes is missing, half the trouser led is torn off.. Edgar is

strapped to a girder by his belt, his shotgun gripped in his

hands.  A swarm of flies buzzes away.

He edges around to where he can see Edgar's face -- the

eyes are wide open, staring.  He's dead.

Old Fred is now hoeing his garden.  He glances up as Val and

Earl's pick-up roars back toward Perfection.

A big station wagon is parked between a small mobile home and

a half-finished house being built by JIM and MEGAN WALLACE,

an out-going, energetic older couple.  Lumber, cinder blocks,

and tools are scattered around the yard.

Jim examines Edgar's body in the bed of Val and Earl's pick-

up truck.  Val, Earl and Megan talk in subdued tones.

Jim climbs out of the pick-up.

Jim shrugs.  Everyone is mystified.

Fred is still hoeing.  In the nearby pen his sheep start

acting restless.  He eyes them.  What's up?  We hear a

strange muffled sound.  Unseen, behind him, at the far end of

the garden, his scarecrow mysteriously tilts.

Old Fred keeps hoeing.  He stops, his foot is caught in the

dirt.  Suddenly he is yanked knee-deep into the ground!

Val and Earl's truck, again headed for Bixby, and going way

too fast, zooms past the two workers still repairing the

road.  The workers glance up, annoyed.

Val and Earl, sobered and deep in thought, drive past the

shack where the ferocious dog lives.  They automatically roll

up their windows during:

Val has no answer.  It's too weird.

They are passing the shack.  Earl suddenly realizes:

CLOSE ON the pick-up's tires skidding to a stop.  PULL OUT to

see we're back at Old Fred's.

Earl is staring wide-eyed.  Val follows Earl's gaze and is

aghast when he sees --

The sheep pen -- it's a ghastly, bloody mess.  Scattered on

the churned up ground a few dismembered sheep legs and heads

are all that remain of the flock.

Val and Earl leap out of the truck to investigate.

Earl dashes into Fred's house.  Val checks around outside.

Earl comes back out.

Then they spot something lying in the middle of the garden --

Old Fred's hat.

Still looking all around, Val squats distractedly to pick up

the hat.  He and Earl stumble backward in shock.

OLD FRED IS STILL WEARING HIS HAT!!  His mangled face stares

up at them, eyes and mouth frozen open in a death grimace.

Carmine and Howard continue repairing the road, Carmine still

using the noisy jackhammer.  Val and Earl drive up.

Carmine stops jackhammering to listen.

Val and Earl speed away.

But he edges over to the truck and takes out a heavy steel

pry-bar to keep within easy reach.

Carmine goes back to work, pounding the asphalt with the

jackhammer.  Suddenly the blade strikes something beneath the

road, something soft.  We hear a strange, unearthly shriek

from underground.  A weird orange goo gushes up around the

blade.  Then the jackhammer takes off by itself like a

harpoon stuck in a whale!  Carmine gets tangled in the jack-

hammer's air-hose and is dragged along, shouting for help.

Howard chases him down the embankment and into the scrub-

brush.  He hears Carmine screaming.

But now there is only silence.  Howard crashes through the

brush.  All he finds is the torn end of the air-hose -- which

suddenly sucks down into the ground.  He's momentarily

staggered by an awful smell, but forces himself to keep

looking.  He lets the pry-bar drag on the ground.  Then

something -- it looks like a mouth or a horrid beak -- shoots

out of the ground and grips the pry-bar with uncanny

strength!  Howard drops his weapon and scrambles madly away.

He clambers back onto the road.  But almost immediately

cracks form in the pavement around him.  More beak-things

break through the asphalt between him and his truck.

He dashes across the road, scrambling up the embankment.  He

clings precariously to a tree root, looking down -- where'd

they go?  Suddenly the dirt around him begins to "bubble."

Several hungry beaks break through and grab him, yanking him

head first into the embankment.  Then the embankment gives

way, crashing down onto the road, taking with it a nearby

telephone pole and snapping the lines.

Pham Van is talking to MIGUEL, a local rancher.  They both

jump as the doors burst open.  Val and Earl race in, trailed

by Nestor and Melvin.  Val heads for the payphone during:

Val grabs the phone and digs in his pocket for change.

Earl comes up with change and hands it to Val, who dials.

Val stares at the phone.

Val and Earl rush out.

Trailed by the others Val and Earl march out and leap into

their truck , Val driving now.  He searches for the key.

Earl hands Val the key.

Again the pick-up barrels through the canyon.

Earl points ahead and screams:

Val brings the truck to a squealing stop.  Ahead: the

collapsed embankment completely blocks the road.  It's

totally impassable.  The cowboys are dumbfounded.

But Val is in no mood for philosophy.  He leaps out and peers

into the highway maintenance truck which sits undisturbed,

emergency lights still flashing.  There's nobody in it.  He

starts looking around.

Val looks where he's pointing -- Howard's bloodstained

hardhat lies at the edge of the landslide.  Val gets the

point.  Looking around for the unknown assailant, he eases

back into the truck.  Earl already has a pistol in his lap

and is digging through the glove compartment.

Val quickly jockeys the truck to turn it around on the narrow

road.  But as he backs into the hillside, we hear a strange

grating clunk from underneath.  When he tries to pull

forward, the truck won't move.  The engine stalls.

They both lean out.  The rear tires are clear.  Val restarts

the truck and tries to pull forward, rocking the truck

against some unseen pull.  Smoke wells up from the clutch.

Val slams the truck into low-range four-wheel-drive and revs

it.  The tires dig in, fighting for traction -- and suddenly

the truck lurches free.  We hear an eerie shriek mingled with

gear and engine noise as Val angrily roars away.

The word has spread.  Everybody in town is gathered at Pham

Van's.  They rush out to meet Val and Earl as they drive up.

But he stops because they're all staring wide-eyed at the

rear of the truck.

Val and Earl jump out and look where everyone else is

looking.  Their jaws drop.  REVEAL: hanging from the rear

axle of their truck and trailing out behind like a nightmare

wedding decoration -- a sex foot long, grotesque, fleshy,

tentacle.  The end gripping the axle looks like a vicious,

razor-sharp beak or hook.  The trailing end is mutilated,

oozing orange goo -- as though the creature was torn in half.

Burt, more daring than the others, pries the thing off the

axle with a shovel.

Pham Van leaps over them.

Val and Earl square their shoulders.  This time they're ready

for him.

Burt is deep in thought.

A cold chill spreads through the group.  They stare out at

the vast, forbidding desert.  They suddenly feel alone --

very alone.

CLOSE on Rhonda's hat lying on the ground.  We think the

worst.  Then she reaches in, picks it up and puts it on.

REVEAL she's in a lonely corner of the valley working with a

seismograph.  She pounds a marking stake into the dirt.

The needle responds to each blow on the stake.  We hear

Rhonda stop pounding.  The needle stops.  All is silent --

but the needle

LOW CAMERA is MOVING in Rhonda's general direction.  She

starts to pound another stake.  CAMERA REACTS so it is moving

straight toward her.  As it passes a burrow, a rabbit

suddenly scouts out.  CAMERA WHIP PANS to watch the rabbit

scamper into the distance, then TURNS BACK to move toward

Rhonda, who still pounding her stake.

CAMERA passes Rhonda's seismograph.  The machine tilts

slightly as the ground bulges up beneath it.

Rhonda finishes pounding.  She heads for her truck, noisily

tossing in her tools and slamming the tailgate.  CAMERA

CLOSES IN on her, faster and faster.  It is

A beak-thing thrusts out of the ground, groping where

Rhonda's boot just was.  Rhonda drives off, unknowingly

running right over the thing.  We hear a shriek of pain as

the tentacle writhes and sucks back under the ground.

Mindy Sterngood poses cautiously with the bizarre hook

tentacle.   A camera FLASHES and we REVEAL Pham Van taking

her photo beside a sign: "Photographs -- You and the Snake

Monster -- $2.00."  Viola and Miguel, wait in line.

We now see the store is crowded with concerned townsfolk

debating what to do, and how to protect themselves.  Val and

Earl sit on the sidelines, sipping beer, gazing in awe at

enterprising Phan Vam:

Dominating the discussion are Burt and Heather now armed with

scoped, magnum hunting rifles.  Heather stands guard at a

window, peering out into the night.

Burt steps over to a faded topographic map on the wall and

points out details during:

All heads turn toward Pham Van.

All heads turn toward Val and Earl.

In the vast desert night a single floodlight illuminates Jim

and Megan's partially finished house.  Their station wagon is

parked out front.  A country and western tune drifts to us

from it's radio.

As we MOVE CLOSER, we see the floodlight is powered by a

small, softly purring generator set maybe fifty feet away.

Jim and Megan, both exhausted, unload a big stack of roofing

shingles from their station wagon.  Jim starts to lift a

package of shingles but gives up and sits on the tailgate.

Just then the whirring of the generator becomes strangely

muffled.  The floodlight flickers.  Now the generator dies.

Darkness engulfs them.  The car radio music drones on

incongruously.

Jim digs out a powerful flashlight and heads over toward the

generator.  Megan lies back, taking a welcome breather.

After a moment:

Baffled, he sweeps the whole area with the flashlight.  Megan

joins him.

The severed electric cable stops at the edge of a cone-shaped

depression in the dirt where the generator sat.  He hands her

the flashlight and kneels.  We watch tensely as he probes the

loose earth with his hands.

Megan grabs his shirt, trying to pull him back.

Suddenly, about ten feet away -- WHOOMP!!  The generator

shoots up out of the ground!  Jim and Megan dive for cover as

it sails through the air, and crashes to earth.  They stare,

transfixed.  The generator is dented and bent almost beyond

recognition -- and covered with oozing slime.

But Megan is all action.  She yanks him back.

We again hear that mysterious rumbling sound.  Jim stops,

sweeping the flashlight around them.

She hustles him bodily toward the car during:

Suddenly he drops knee-deep into ground!  Megan is thrown

off balance and tumbles to one side.  The flashlight falls,

lighting them at an eerie low angle.

We hear sickening CRUNCHES from below the earth.  He SCREAMS

in excruciating agony.

He struggles wildly, but just sinks further down!  Megan

slides a 2X4 over to Jim.  He grabs it like a drowning man,

trying to keep himself from being pulled down.  But he's

pulled with suck power the 2X4 snaps!

His head is going under.  Megan desperately tries to dig the

smothering earth away, but she's losing.  Now only his arms

are above ground.  She pulls with all her might, but he sinks

inexorably down, down.  She's pulled flat on the ground.

He's gone.

The next instant, a vicious hook-tentacle erupts through the

earth, missing Megan's face by inches.  She scrambles back

frantically.

LOW CAMERA pursues Megan toward the car, just missing her as

she dives in through the open tailgate.  She slams it after

her.  The talons rake across the car, scratching the glass.

Megan tumbles into the front seat.  Thank God the keys are in

the ignition.  She starts the engine.  But outside the "snake

things" attack the car in a frenzy, slashing blindly.  A rear

tire is totally shredded just as:

Megan floors it.  The car lurches forward but the mutilated

tire falls apart.  The wheel rim digs into the loose earth

and the car is stuck.  With no other recourse, Megan locks

the door, rolls up the windows and cowers in the middle of

the car, panting, sobbing.  The radio is still playing a

happy cowboy tune.  She peeks out.  They gave up?  She's

safe?  Nothing happens for a moment, then --

The car starts to shake and shudder!  Dust wells up around the

windows.

Outside we see a bizarre sight.  The earth around the rear of

the car is "boiling," dirt flying in all directions -- and

the car starts to

Megan wildly honks the horn!  The car looks just like a ship

going down by the stern, hood tilting up gracefully.  The

back windows shatter, dirt pouring in!  Megan smashes the

windshield with a small fire extinguisher and scrambles out

on the hood.  But there's no hope.  The car keeps sinking,

titling now almost ninety degrees, forcing her onto a

precarious perch on the grille -- sinking, sinking.

Out of her mind with terror, she keeps softly murmuring the

same hopeless phrases:

The headlights are two ironic beacons sending their beams

skyward through the roiling dust into the night sky.  The

sound of the radio becomes muffled.  The headlights sink from

view -- and then Megan's scream floats across the desert.

Out front of Pham Van's, nervous Val and Earl saddle up the

horses while Pham loads their saddle bags with food.  Every-

one has gathered to see them off.  There's an air of tension.

Earl pulls their old Smith and Wesson revolver and battered

Winchester rifle out of the pick-up truck.

So does Earl.  He raises his hand.  They swiftly do a round

of scissors-rock-paper.  Earl loses.  He hands Val the rifle.

Just then, Burt and Heather pull up in their Blazer, climbing

out with their hunting rifles.

Val and Earl mount up.

Earl takes the awesome-looking gun with a smug glance at Val.

Heather unhooks a box of cartridges from her belt and hands

it to Earl.  Suddenly there's a blood-curdling SCREAM!  The

door to Pham Van's flies open.  Out staggers Melvin, wrapped

in Pham Van's hook-tentacle, writhing in apparent agony.

People scatter like sheep.  Burt and Heather have guns

trained on him in an instant.  Then everyone realizes it's a

sick joke.  Melvin collapses with laughter.  Burt is livid.

He almost shot Melvin.  He charges over and yanks the kid to

his feet, screaming:

Pham rushes over and grabs his precious tentacle.  As people

calm down, Val and Earl gaze nervously at the vast desert

before them.

They ride out to an adlib chorus:  "Keep your heads down;"

"Go careful, boys;" "Keep a sharp lookout;" etc.

Val and Earl ride along, very tiny in the vast, lonely

landscape, and very on edge.  Constantly looking all around.

Val doesn't want to hear it.

Faint Country and Western radio music drifts to them.

They're nearing Jim and Megan's house.

Val knocks on the door to the mobile home.

No answer.  He opens the door and peers inside.  Behind him

Earl steps out of the half-finished house and shrugs.  Nobody

around.  Wind rustles the plastic sheeting over the windows.

Strangely they can still hear the muffled radio clearly.

They walk briskly to their horses.  Earl snatches Heather's

rifle from its saddle scabbard.  Val pulls out the

Winchester.  Earl tries to reassure himself.

They focus on the sound and walk gingerly toward it, keeping

constant watch in every direction.  The ground here is all

torn up like the sheep pen -- and the music is coming from

Val scrapes at the dirt with his boot -- and finds the

headlight of Jim and Megan's station wagon, still on, glaring

up at him.  He drops down and wildly sweeps away more dirt,

revealing more of the car's grille and hood -- and blood -

soaked dirt which sticks to his hand.  He leaps away,

frantically rubbing the blood off on his pants.

Val and Earl are riding at full gallop.  They race alongside

a concrete-lined flood-control ditch and veer off to follow a

barbed wire fence which crosses the ditch.

They ride along the fence during:

Suddenly the horses stop short.  In a frenzy they wheel

around, rear up, refusing to go on.  The cowboys fight to

control them.

But Earl's already drawing his rifle.

He draws his rifle.  They look wildly in all directions at

once -- but there's nothing, only empty desert.

They keep staring.  The horses keep pacing nervously.  Then

-- Earl's horse rears wildly and falls!  Earl goes flying.

Val wheels around wildly, dismounts and runs to Earl, who's

bruised and winded but basically unhurt.  They think Earl's

horse just tripped.

Their eyes bulge.  Several "snake things" have engulfed the

horse's head, sucking, crushing, slurping.  Val's horse goes

berserk and gallops for the horizon.

Suddenly they realize what that means -- the thing could

come up under

But nothing pursues them.  They pause, glancing back

nervously.

Val raises his rifle and takes a well-aimed shot, hitting one

of them.  Orange goo spurts out.  We hear a deafening shriek

as all the "snake things" instantly zip back underground.

Then -- A HUGE MOUND OF EARTH RISES UP UNDER VAL AND EARL!!

The cowboys tumble down its side, Val losing his rifle.  They

roll over and stare dumbfounded at the mound.

The mound of earth turns toward them.  The ground splits open

and out rises -- a huge head!

The monster is a horrendous thirty-foot long eating machine!

Its head is eyeless, utterly alien, covered with tough boney

plates which close together to form a cork-screw point.

The cowboys stumble back toward the fence in speechless

terror.  The creature slides toward them, pushing through the

earth like a whale through water.  Now it opens its mouth --

but it's like a grotesque flower, boney plates spreading open

like petals, revealing a huge, slimy, fleshy, oozing orifice!

And inside the mouth, a ghastly multi-tentacled tongue!

These are the "snake things," not snakes at all but actually

the horrid hook-tentacles that can shoot out six feet to snag

their prey!

The monster snorts and snuffs, throwing up plumes of dust,

sounding like a horrendous pig.  It sinks into the earth and

charges!  We see the hump of earth move toward them faster

and faster but then it disappears as the creature goes deeper.

Val and Earl leap sideways and run along the fence.  The

creature goes straight and slams into a fencepost from below.

All we see is the fencepost knocked at a crazy angle.

The cowboys keep running.  The creature regroups and charges

after them, hitting each fencepost in turn, sending weird

sinuous shock waves along the barbed wire, making almost

musical twanging sounds.  Val looks back.

And as if that weren't enough, Earl points to more trouble

ahead.

The fence runs straight to the edge of the ditch, an eight

foot wide gap yawning dead ahead.  The creature churns like

a locomotive from behind.  They'll have to try to jump!  They

strain desperately for every last fraction of speed.

They leap and -- they don't do it!!  They smack into the

opposite side of the ditch, clawing frantically at the lip,

only to tumble to its sloping bottom.  A split second later

the charging creature slams like a wrecking ball into the

foot-thick concrete wall!  The wall CRACKS AND BULGES OUT!  A

hook-tentacle flops out through one of the cracks!  Terrified

Val and Earl scramble away.  But the wall holds together.

And the, strangely, all is quiet.  The tentacle lays dead

still.  Eventually, the cowering cowboys dare to creep back a

little closer, still panting, exhausted, jumpy.

And now orange slime begins to ooze through the cracks in the

concrete.

He suddenly shakes his fist at the dead beast.

They allow themselves a small wheeze of nervous laughter,

only to jump like rabbits as some pebbles rattle loudly down

the concrete wall behind them.  They whirl to see Rhonda, up

on the opposite side of the ditch, staring down at them.

She's lugging a bunch of her equipment, including a small

folding shovel.

Val and Earl look at each other, then burst out laughing.

Rhonda spots the cracked wall.

The shattered concrete has been pulled away to fully reveal

the creature's horrendous head.  Start CLOSE on it: oozing

blood, slavering mouth plates hanging open, hook-tentacles

lolling out.  WIDEN to see Earl and Rhonda, sweating, dusty

and tired, staring in awe and cringing at the stench.

We can hear a shovel digging up above, and now Val shouts:

Earl and Rhonda climb up.  CRANE UP with them to REVEAL the

whole animal!  Val, digging excitedly with Rhonda's shovel,

is just scraping away the last loose dirt from the creature's

tail.  The whole length of the immense thirty foot beast is

partially uncovered, in king-sized bas-relief.

She nods, stepping down to study the creature.  The body is

stream-lined, cigar-shaped, maybe eight feet in diameter at

its thickest.  It's covered with

pointing, retractable spikes.  Rhonda gingerly jiggles one.

It can be pushed in and out of its socket like a plunger.

A chilling thought stops her in mid-sentence.  She springs

down into the drainage ditch to get her backpack, pulling out

her seismograph printouts.  She studies them frantically

during:

The guys looks at each other.  One thought immediately springs

to their minds.

While they bask in their fame-to-be, Rhonda continues to

study the print-outs, coming to a terrifying conclusion.

But Rhonda interrupts -- now really scared.

Val and Earl shut right up.  Earl edges up a fencepost.  Val

sidles up onto a rock during:

Rhonda paws through her unwieldy printouts, pointing out

jagged ink lines on the graphs, comparing different ones.

The men leap from their perches and hustle her in the

direction she came from.

She indicates what to most of us would be a hill, dotted with

huge boulders thrusting out of the sandy desert soil like big

mushrooms.  The trio jogs toward the hill.

En route to the truck, they pass near one of Rhonda's

seismographs.  Suddenly Earl stumbles as one leg drops knee-

deep into the ground!  He screams.  Val wheels and bodily

yanks him up.  They back away from the small hole in the

ground, calming a little as they realize:

Rhonda tenses as she hears a sound she knows well -- the soft

scratching of the seismograph needle across its paper

cylinder.  She whacks Val on the shoulder and points

speechlessly at it.

The needle is going wild!!

She doesn't have to explain.  All three of them dash dash for:

The remains of an old rail fence lay beside one of the

boulders.  Val, Earl, and Rhonda scramble over the wood, up

onto the rock and stand there tensely.

In a moment, the creature gently rustles the earth at the

base of the rock.  The monster's slimy hook-tentacles slither

out, searching the rock base.  Shuddering, the humans move as

high as they can, well out of reach.  The tentacles slip back

beneath the earth.  Everyone breathes a sigh of relief.

Rhonda points.  They can see the roof of her truck, maybe a

hundred yards away through the boulders.  Val and Earl think

about it.

It's hours later.  Stiff and uncomfortable, they have nothing

to do but theorize.

There's a long pause.  Earl stares at the dirt around the rock.

Val gets an idea.  He grabs a post from the dilapidated fence

and cautiously slips down near the boulder's edge.

Val nods.  Dead silence as he reaches way out with the post

and scrapes it on the ground.  Almost instantly the creature

roars up, grabbing the post in a flurry of flying dirt and

lashing tentacles, nearly hooking Val's hand.  Val

practically falls over himself scrambling back to safety.

Rhonda stares at Val, impressed.

They all settle back, having no idea what to do next.  Rhonda

gazes out at the desert that surrounds them like an ocean.

Our heroes are silhouetted against a huge, spectacular,

desert night sky.  After a very long pause:

The silhouettes shift, Val and Earl moving down one side of

the rock, and Rhonda down the other.  We can no longer see

them.  We just head zippers zipping down -- then soft sighs

of relief from Val and Earl.  Then:

Rich orange sunlight creeps silently across the deathly still

desert.  Earl is already awake.  Val is curled up without his

jacket, shivering.  He wakes with a start.  Where the hell's

his jacket?

Rhonda wakes slowly.  She's surprised to find herself wrapped

in Val's jacket.  Touched by his chivalry, she embarrassedly

hands it to baffled Val.

Val glances at Earl, who looks away.  Who, me?

Earl gropes through his pockets, coming up with only

cigarettes.  Val fishes in his own pockets, finding only

their lighter.  They exchange items and light up during:

This time he tosses a piece of wood out onto the sand.  With

soft rustling, a bulge forms in the earth, moves over to the

wood, then subsides.  Rhonda starts looking around during:

Rhonda gives up on them.  She goes over and pulls a long

cross rail from the fence during:

They watch in surprise as she hefts her pole, checks the

balance, eyeballs the distance to the nearest boulder.  Then

she charges between them, plants her pole and vaults smoothly

over to the next boulder, maybe fifteen feet away.  The

creature surfaces where her pole touched down, but too late

-- a hook tentacle vainly sweeps the area, the disappears

into the ground.  Val and Earl glance at each other,

Earl rushes to grab a couple more fence rails.

Val just stands staring across at Rhonda -- his horizons are

broadening.  Earl stuffs a fence rail into his hands.

Earl takes a deep breath and goes for it, vaulting across to

Rhonda.  Val follows.

Through the shimmering heat in the distance we see the

strange sight of the three figures vaulting from boulder to

boulder.

Val, Earl and Rhonda pole-vault their way toward the truck.

Finally they're at the nearest boulder, but the truck is

still ten feet away.

Rhonda and Val nod.  Rhonda grips her car keys in her teeth.

They all vault in unison, landing in the truck bed.  Rhonda

scrambles up, slides open the cab's rear window, and begins

wriggling through headfirst.

Dust explodes around the rear of the truck!  Hook-tentacles

snake up on all sides, narrowly missing Val.  He and Earl

grab whatever's handy, pounding at the tentacles with

expensive instruments.

Rhonda's only half way through the cab window, still hanging

headfirst into the cab.  She frantically starts the truck,

dives down and punches the accelerator with her fist.

As the truck roars away, one tentacles manages to tear off the

the muffler.  The engine thunders like a tank.  Val and Earl

sit back, sighing in relief, then react when they see

Rhonda is driving upside down and blind.

Rhonda skids her noisy truck to a halt in front of Pham Van's.

Val leaps out and jumps into his pick-up truck.  He searches

for the key.

Val holds out his hand for the key.  Earl tosses it to him.

Val drives off.  We FOLLOW Rhonda and Earl as they drive the

other way, toward Viola's.

Rhonda sees straight through Earl's clumsy attempt at match-

making.  She can't help but smile.  Earl grins sheepishly.

MOVE IN on Rhonda -- her and Val?

Nestor, Viola, Nancy, and Miguel nervously crowd around Val,

Earl, and Rhonda.  Viola holds her yappy dog which perio-

dically snarls and snaps at people.  Pham Van is on his CB

radio trying to contact Burt and Heather.

Nancy rushes out.

Everybody stares at her, then they smile, realizing she's

pulling their legs.

We see the utility truck still parked near the landslide

blocking the road.  REVEAL, on the far side, a telephone

maintenance truck is now parked, emergency lights flashing --

and nearby, amid phoneworkers' climbing and repair gear, two

more hard hats lying on blood-soaked ground.

The crowd is still jabbering away.  Rhonda speak over them:

Val shakes his head, and marches over to the topographic map

on the wall.

The spots he indicates describe a line leading along the

valley straight toward town.

We hear an a eerie SHRIEK from outside.  Something shoots in

through the window, striking Earl in the chest!!  Earl flails

frantically at it -- but it's only Melvin's basketball.  We

glimpse Melvin outside, doubled over with laughter.  Earl

grabs the ball and hurls it viciously back, but Melvin easily

dodges it.

Nancy rushes back toward Pham Van's, still looking.

We're CLOSE on Melvin as he circles around the back of Pham

Van's, bouncing his basketball, mischief in his eyes.  We can

hear the townsfolk inside.

Then, to Melvin's astonishment, the steady rhythm of his

bouncing basketball suddenly stops.  The ball just goes flup

and doesn't bounce back up to him.  He looks down.  No ball!

Just swirling dust at his feet.

Everyone jumps as we once more hear an ear-shattering SHRIEK

from Melvin.  Earl snarls and heads for the door, Val right

behind them.

Val and Earl are well ahead of the other townsfolk as they

march around to the side of Pham Van's.  But where's Melvin?

Nothing out here but the oppressive, hot desert silence.

Then they hear a soft shuddering whimper -- from above.

There's terrified Melvin, halfway up a telephone pole,

clinging to it desperately.

Val and Earl freeze in their tracks and glance at each

other, realizing instantly what's up.  Without a word they

leap desperately in opposite directions.  Like a breaching

whale, a creature roars up through the earth right where they

were standing, great mouth gaping open, slimy tentacles

lashing in all directions.

The townsfolk scatter, some heading for their homes,

including Viola and Nestor.  Others scramble over each other

as they pile back into Pham Van's.  The telephone pole

shudders.  Melvin falls and scampers for the nearest hiding

place, a corrugated tin storage shed near Pham Van's.

Val, Earl, Rhonda, Miguel, and Pham Van rush in.

Miguel and Pham shut up.  Then we hear something new -- the

building itself creaking and groaning like a ship.  The

liquor bottles behind Pham Van's bar vibrate and clink.  The

creature is moving beneath the building.  The people freeze

like mannequins.  Now we can hear its pig-like snorting.

Pham Van and Miguel react as the awful smell percolates up

through the floorboards.  Val signals them to keep quiet.

Finally, the creaking stops.

Rhonda addresses the group in an intense whisper:

Everyone stands stock still -- and sweats.  But, then, slowly

we become aware of a faint, yet oddly familiar sound.

Squeak, squeak, squeak -- Mindy on her pogo stick!  They all

scramble to the windows.

There she is, alone in the vacant street, Walkman blaring in

her ears, merrily bouncing along to a rock 'n' roll beat.

Thoughts of personal safety vanish as the horrified people

lean way out the doors and windows and shout with one voice:

She can't hear them over her Walkman.  A tell-tale puff of

dust spurts up not fifty feet from her!

Val sees Mindy has only seconds left!  He vaults straight out

the window and charges toward her!  Right behind him comes

Earl and Rhonda.

As she rounds a corner at the opposite end of town.  She

spots Mindy, then sees Val running.  She starts running.

She's lazily bouncing in circles -- squeak, squeak, squeak.

She goes wide-eyed as she rotates to see Val coming at her

like a mad bull, arms outstretched.  The asphalt under her

pogo stick cracks and --

Val tackles her, both of them tumbling head over heels.  She

scrambles up, rubbing her skinned elbow and yelling:

Val claps his hand over her mouth.  She goes wide eyed as she

sees: her pogo stick standing straight up in the cracked

asphalt!  Then it is sucked down like so much spaghetti!

Nancy rushes into frame, hugging Mindy.  Val signals her to

be quiet.  They sit uneasily.  Where's the creature?

Suddenly the pogo stick erupts out of the earth right in

their midst!

Val runs one way, Nancy and Mindy the other, heading up the

street toward their house.  Val scrambles up onto his pick-up

truck!  The creature rams the truck, rupturing a tire.  As it

shakes the truck violently, Val spots Rhonda and Earl, now

standing uncertainly halfway between him and Pham Van's.

Rhonda and Earl hesitate.

But Earl now hears something behind them!  Down the street,

a little wall of cinder blocks framing Viola's driveway

suddenly topples over.

CAMERA charges toward them.  Earl swerves toward Pham Van's,

but Rhonda is cut off!  She heads toward the next nearest

haven:

The storage shed where Melvin is hiding.  It sits in a

vacant, weed-choked lot.  Crashing through the weeds, Rhonda

has almost reached the shed when she is suddenly brought up

short and slams face down in a cloud of dust!

She can't get up!!  Something's got her!  She's caught in an

old rusted barbed wire fence, lying almost flat, hidden in

the weeds.  Some strands have come loose and are curled up

like vicious concertina wire.

Barely has she taken this in when -- the ground caves in

under her!  She rolls wildly to one side as hook-tentacles

snake up, missing her by inches!  She keeps rolling-crawling-

scrambling -- anything to get away from the awful maw -- but

gets her legs hopelessly tangled in the barbed wire.  She

freezes.  The creature feels around where she was.

She calms herself, pulling gingerly at the wire, working

tensely to free herself but --

The creature's mouth slams shut on the fence.  Like a spider

sensing something caught in its web, the monster knows it's

on to something.  Its hook-tentacles shoot forward to snare

three feet of fence, then the creature lunges up and out,

swallowing that three feet in a big "gulp" and yanking Rhonda

violently toward it!  She screams, pants ripped, legs slashed

and bleeding!  GULP!  She's dragged even closer.

The truck shakes and shimmies as Val's creature tries to pull

it down.  Val sees that Rhonda's in trouble.  He searches

frantically for a weapon -- and finds one -- a CHAIN SAW!  He

leaps as far from the truck as he can and hits the ground

running, yanking furiously on the saw's starter cord.

Rhonda is in a dead panic, thrashing helplessly in the barbed

wire.  The beast takes another gulp of fence, wrenching her

within inches of a probing hook-tentacle!  Suddenly we hear a

nasty ROAR as Val's chain saw swings in, slicing the squirm-

ing tentacle in half, spraying gore everywhere!  The creature

unleashes an unearthly shriek, and the other tentacles

recoil.  The severed one writhes like a beheaded snake.

Val yanks off Rhonda's boots.

She frantically claws at her belt.  But in mere seconds:

Tentacles snake out to regain their grip on the fence.  Val

grabs the saw and starts slashing wildly, but this time the

hook-tentacles snag it and wrench it from his grasp.  It

slams to the ground, motor dying.  The monster readies itself

for the lunge that will suck Rhonda in.  Val grabs her under

the arms and pulls.  Rhonda wriggles wildly to get out of her

wire enmeshed pants.

The creature lunges!  Rhonda pulls free!  She and Val tumble

backward.  The creature gets only a mouthful of Rhonda's jeans.

The next instant the second creature explodes up through the

ground right next to fallen Val and Rhonda!  They roll

sideways, come up running, and sprint for Pham Van's along an

old wooden sidewalk.

Earl flings open the front door.  Val and Rhonda race toward

the porch.  Right on their heels the creature ripples the

boards like an ocean wave!

They dive through the open door of Pham Van's.  The rippling

boards zoom on past it.  Earl quickly eases the door shut.

Earl turns to breathless Rhonda.

It's a tense, edgy group.  Every movement made is in slow

motion, every word is a whisper.   They gaze grimly out the

windows at the silent, deserted, heat-shimmering main street.

Val gingerly dabs iodine onto the cuts on Rhonda's legs.

She doesn't even wince.

She smiles at him.

She gazes at him.  He looks away.  Over at the bar, Pham

holds up a new pair of pants for Rhonda.

Grateful for something to do, Val eases over to get the

pants.  Rhonda looks after him.  Then she becomes aware of

someone staring at

cat grin that says "What did I tell you?"

Pham hands the pants to Val.  Then Pham and Miguel reach

simultaneously for a sods bottle and -- knock it over!  It

rolls all the way down the bar as a flurry of desperate hands

try to stop it.  No good.  It rolls off the end and -- CRASH!

Everyone freezes.  Sure enough the building shudders.  Floor

boards creak and bend as searching tentacles thump and scrape

along under the floor.  People close their eyes, not even

breathing.  Finally the noise subsides.  Everyone relaxes --

a little.

They all shut up when they hear Viola's dog yapping in the

distance.

Up the hill across from Pham Van's, the old trailer looks

perfectly peaceful.  Except Viola's dog keeps yapping.  Then

we hear panicked Viola.

INT.  VIOLA'S TRAILER - DAY

We hear a loud whap!  The dog's bark simply changes to

piercing yelps.  It would be funny except --

The trailer suddenly bucks upward, hit from below as though

by a pile driver!  Again and again the unseen creatures slam

into the frail structure.

The trailer is finally knocked right off its foundation!  It

tips over and tumbles all the way down the hill!  As the dust

clears, all is silent.  A huge hole is torn in the trailer's

floor.  Viola's possessions are scattered everywhere.

Everyone stares in shock.

Everyone turns away from the windows, gingerly sitting down,

glumly pondering this possibility.  There is a long silence.

Then suddenly -- ROAR!  The silence is shattered as Pham

Van's big freezer compressor suddenly comes on.

Pham runs to the freezer.  Its on/off switch is buried behind

stacks of soft-drink cases.  He tears at them like a madman,

toppling them this way and that.  Earl and Val join him.

But right behind Pham, the floor BUCKLES UP, a monster's

snout BURSTING THROUGH and engulfing one of his legs!  The

creature starts to back down into the jagged hole, dragging

screaming Pham with it.  Val, Earl, Rhonda, and Miguel grab

Pham's arms but are no match for the monster.  It shakes and

spins him like some gigantic dog, effortlessly throwing them

off, relentlessly pulling Pham down.

The hole in the floor is

As one leg goes down, the other is bent hideously backward.

Pham screams and screams as jagged wood tears into him, bones

snap, ribs crack.  The others grab him again but are utterly

helpless.  With vicious, powerful jerks the creature yanks

his man mangled body down.  The last thing we see is his foot,

now folded back past his head, and he's gone.

Val is wild with helpless anger.

The floor bulges up in another place!  A second creature!

Then a third, coming RIGHT UP UNDER THEM!  Earl sprawls onto

the bar.  Rhonda springs onto the shelves in the middle of the

store, knocking groceries everywhere.  Val and Miguel climb up

shelves which cover the rear wall of the store.

The whole building shakes and shudders, dust powdering down

from the ceiling.  Flailing tentacles are everywhere,

slashing open food packages; clouds of flour fill the air!

Val spots a hatch in the ceiling.

Earl leaps from the bar to the rear shelves.  Val and Miguel

slide sideways till they're beneath the hatch, then use the

shelves as a ladder, climbing up to the hatch.  Val pounds on

it frantically.

In the middle of the store, Rhonda leaps from shelf to shelf,

trying to get closer to where Val is.  Soon she reaches the

last one, balancing precariously.  But a creature tips over

the first one!  The shelves topple like dominoes, crashing

toward Rhonda.  She is half catapulted, half jumps right

through an open window, ripping through the screen.

Val sees what's happened.  With maniacal strength he smashes

open the hatch and climbs out onto --

Val rushes to the edge of the roof shouting:

He looks down where Rhonda fell.  She's not there.  He hears

a whistle and is relieved to see:

Rhonda is perched as high as she can get on the water tower

near Pham Van's.  It's maybe twenty-five feet tall, a simple

wood frame holding a big galvanized tank.  The wooden legs

stand on big concrete anchors buried in the ground.

Melvin peers terrified out the shed door, up at the guys on

Pham Van's roof.

It's too late.  Wham!  A creature strikes.  The little shed

shudders, dust puffing from every old seam.  In a split

second Melvin has climbed to the shed roof.

Nancy and Mindy peer to the window, surprised to see the men

on Pham Van's roof.

We hear Val's shouting to the remaining townsfolk.

The store shakes and shimmies.  We hear the monster's

thunderous crashing from below.

Burt and Heather's place, about a mile from town, is no-

nonsense, functional, ugly -- unpainted concrete walls, no

yard, chain-link fence.  Burt and Heather drive up in their

big Blazer and park right beside the house.  Hot and tired,

they climb out, each carrying a heavy, scoped hunting rifle.

Burt peers toward Perfection through binoculars during:

The town is a very strange sight.  It's as though an

invisible flood were in progress, driving people to high

ground.  We see: Rhonda perched on the water tower; Val, Earl

and Miguel on the store roof; Nancy and Mindy on their roof;

Melvin on the storage shed; Nestor on his roof.

Val, Earl and Miguel gaze out at the town, trying to concoct

a plan.   Suddenly Earl perks up.  The men speak softly.

Val stares at him, incredulous.

Suddenly, down in the store, Pham Van's CB radio squawks

loudly.

The building shudders as the creatures again smash through

the floor inside, looking for the source of the noise.  Val,

Earl and Miguel scramble to the edge of the roof.

The CB radio sits on a shelf near an open window.  Tentacles

are feeling along the wall just below it.  Val appears out-

side the window -- upside-down.  He snatches the radio and is

hauled straight up out of frame.

Miguel and Earl haul Val by the feet back up onto the roof.

Val quickly turns down the CB volume.

A peculiar cross between bomb shelter and blue-collar den,

Burt's wood-paneled basement has all the comforts for post-

Apocalypse living.  Burt talks on his CB.

A few feet away Heather works at their ammunition reloading

bench.  She dumps a few hundred empty cartridge cases into a

case cleaner and switches it on.  It HUMS loudly as it

vibrates.

The groping tentacles swiftly suck back below the floor.

TILT UP to see out the window some distance away, a couple of

old trash cans topple over as the creature streaks past

beneath them, making a bee-line for Burt's.

Miguel points frantically at the trash cans.

Val talks a little louder into the mic.  INTERCUT as needed.

Hearing that warning, Burt and Heather go into a well-honed

drill.  They grab their hunting rifles and take positions at

basement windows.  Burt scans with the binoculars.  He sees

nothing.  He glances at Heather.  She shrugs.  Nobody coming.

Val is frantic.  How do you explain these things?

Burt and Heather exchange looks.  Has Val gone nuts?  Then

they hear a low RUMBLE, growing louder and louder.  Tools

hanging over the work bench start to shake; the decorative

cow skulls on the wall rattle; the overhead lights sway --

and then -- everything stops.  Dead silence, except for the

humming of the case cleaner.

THEN THE WALL MOVES!!  The wood paneling bulges slightly.

Nails pop out.  The wall is pushed again; the paneling

cracks.  A cow skull falls.  Burt and Heather level their

rifles and --

A huge creature pushes right through the wall!  Fully half

its bulbous, spiked body writhes into the center of the

room, great multi-part jaws drooling open, hook-tentacles

lashing out.

The three men can hear the chaos over the CB.

The CB goes dead.  The men stare numbly.  Then, drifting

across the desert, a soft popping sound.  The men perk up;

they know what it is -- distant gunfire.

The gunfire is DEAFENING as Burt and Heather blast away.

Globby blood spurts from a dozen wounds, and the creature

pulls back a little.  The couple keeps firing until magazines

are empty.  The creature lunges forward again.

PAN with Burt and Heather to REVEAL a wall of the basement we

haven't seen until now -- a wall

guns, long guns, riot guns, flare guns, antique guns,

military guns, elephant guns.

Heather grabs an HK-91 assault rifle, slams in two magazines,

bottoms taped end to end, and opens fire!  A hook-tentacle

snags her boot, yanking her right off her feet.  Burt pumps

out eight devastating blasts from a twelve-gauge riot gun,

severing the tentacle.  Heather is on her feet in an instant.

She expertly flops her double magazine over, loading the full

one taped upside-down to it, and opens fire again.  Burt

grabs an AR-15 semi-auto and joins her.  They lay down

massive fire, virtually disappearing in muzzle flash and

smoke.  Ejected shell cases clatter and clang all around the

room.

The guns are empty.  THE CREATURE IS STILL COMING!  They back

down the wall, desperately grabbing weapons one after

another: a lever-action, a magnum handgun, even a flare gun

which Heather fires right into the creature's mouth.

Shrieking in pain, the horrid thing thing KEEPS WRIGGLING

TOWARD THEM!

Burt and Heather scramble up over a desk to keep something

between them and it.  Burt smashes open a fancy glass case

holding a huge four-gauge elephant gun.  He slams in two

gigantic cartridges nearly an inch in diameter.  He fires.

The concussion literally shakes the building.  The recoil

slams Burt back against the wall.

The monster bullets tear monster holes in the monster.  Great

gouts of curdles blood spew from it -- Burt hit an artery or

something.  The beast convulses grotesquely, then collapses,

deflating like a beached whale.  Burt and Heather stagger

together and hug each other fervently.  They stare dumbfounded

at the massive dead horror.  Burt suddenly shouts vehemently:

Val, Earl and Miguel listen to the silence hoping for some

sign that their friends are alive.  Suddenly:

It takes a moment for this to sink in, then the men CHEER --

as

Burt and Heather dash out onto the roof, laden with weapons,

ammo boxes and their CB radio.  They hit the deck, assorted

rifles and the elephant gun the ready.

Val shouts to everyone:

Melvin pumps his fist in the air.

Nancy and Mindy hug each other.

Perched on his Spanish tile roof, Nestor pours coffee from

his thermos and raises his cup in a toast.

Rhonda lets out a WHOOP.

The men sit, temporarily jubilant.

Val grabs the CB mic.

Burt and Heather peer from their fortress-like roof.  Burt

spots earth bulging up near the foundation of his house.

He grabs the elephant gun and takes two well-aimed shots --

two deafening BOOMS which echo off the distant mountains.

But the bullets bury themselves harmlessly in the dirt.  The

bulge in the dirt moves calmly away and sinks from view.

Heather shakes her head.

The men are disappointed.  That's not what they wanted to

hear from Burt.  Then Earl perks up and grab the CB mic.

But Rhonda interrupts, pointing urgently from the water

tower.

Val, Earl and Miguel rush to the edge of the roof and look

down where she's pointing --

A creature is running its tentacles along the building's

foundation.  It's a strange, more studied movement than we've

seen before.

They all stare nervously down as the tentacles feel their way

along the wall, moving toward a corner of the building.

Suddenly Miguel spots something down the next wall.

Another set of tentacles is feeling along the adjacent wall.

The two creatures meet at the corner, their tentacles touch-

ing rather like ants' antennae.  They they submerge; tenta-

cles zipping into the earth.  Nothing happens for a moment.

Then the corner of the building suddenly heaves up a couple

of feet.  Clapboard siding splits.  A warped window shatters.

(We don't see the creatures, only the effect of their shoving

from below).  The men nearly lose their balance.  Then the

corner sinks back down.

Nancy and Mindy are still huddled on the roof.  They don't

make a sound.  They're startled when the house suddenly

groans and tilts as creatures give it a tentative shove.

Nancy and Mindy frantically cling to the peak of the smooth

roof.  The picture windows shatters.  We hear beams POP and

CRACK, dishes CRASH off shelves.  The front screen door

swings open.  At last the house slowly settles back down.

The men are watching Nancy's house tensely.

Rhonda chimes in from the water tower.

Straddling the peak of his steeply sloping roof.  Nestor

grabs on in panic as the creatures lift the place up slowly!

The roof warps, Spanish tiles shatter and rain down on the

ground.

This causes a flurry of activity.  Tentacles snake around

where the tiles fell.  We hear creatures crash through

inside, snorting and huffing.  They attack the house in

earnest, shaking it violently, pushing the front wall out

till it falls flat.  The roof collapses on that side!  Nestor

can't hang on!  He slides all the way down, landing across a

window on the flattened wall.  The next instant he's grabbed

and pulled through the window, right into the ground.  He

SCREAMS!

DOLLY along the ground, heading toward the storage shed where

Melvin is.  All we can see is dirt, but we can still hear

Nestor screaming UNDERGROUND!  His screams get more and more

faint as DOLLY ENDS on:

CLOSE ON horrified Melvin as he rocks back and forth

autistically.

Nancy comforts Mindy.

Rhonda turns away.

Val, Earl and Miguel stare in horror and disbelief.  Miguel

crosses himself.  They're in worse trouble than they thought.

Burt and Heather's truck is parked in foreground.  The couple

is up on the roof in background.  Burt prowls along the edge

of the roof with the elephant gun.  Heather mans the C.B.

A hump of dirt raises near the base of the house.  Burt jerks

the rifle to his shoulder and squeezes off a shot.  The hump

moves away from the house.

Still moving away, the hump of dirt passes under the side-

walk, rippling the flagstones gently.

The hump of dirt passes under Burt and Heather's truck,

rocking the vehicle slightly.

The truck's security alarm starts BOOPING!  Burt and Heather

stare down helplessly as the noisy truck is furiously

attacked by the frenzied creatures.  Dust flies as metal rips

and tires shred.

Val Earl and Miguel listen in disbelief to the distant truck

alarm.  It finally sputters and dies.

They've hit rock-bottom.  They sit in helpless, desperate

silence.

Over on the storage shed roof, Melvin is losing it:

Miguel nods in agreement.  Val and Earl stare at him,

incredulous.

Val just stares at her.

Then -- CRASH!  The store shudders, creaks, and groans.  The

creatures are back.  One corner of the store lifts up, beams

splintering.  Then another corner lifts up!  The roof tilts

like the deck of a storm-tossed ship.  From now on the

monsters shake and ram the building almost constantly.

Hanging on tight, the men peer over the edge.

Meanwhile, Rhonda tries her desperate best to be logical:

But Val is warming to the idea.

They squint at the bulldozer -- '

They stare grimly, momentarily stuck for an idea.  Then:

Miguel grabs Earl and points down at little garden tractor in

a jumble of Pham Van's equipment and tools near the side of

the store.

The store takes a heavy hit.  The front porch collapses with

a terrific crash.

Val scrambles to the highest point of the sagging roof and

shouts to Nancy.

The house shuddering and shaking.

Earl grabs the CB mic.

Val and Earl have lowered Miguel down to a window sill right

above the garden tractor.  He has used his kerchief to tie

the steering wheel to keep the front wheels straight.  He

jams the throttle open and signals thumbs-up to Val and Earl

above.

Val and Earl stride purposefully toward the opposite end of

the roof.  Realizing they have the same idea, each one tries

to edge ahead of the other.

Earl raises a fist: The Challenge.  They do scissors-rock-

paper.  One, two, three.  Val loses.

Val glares at him.  Earl's obviously determined.

Earl positions himself, nervous as hell, ready to leap at the

right moment.

Miguel leans out precariously and pulls the tractor's starter

cord.  Nothing.  On the second try it starts.  He slams it

into gear and sends it out toward open desert.  The store

shakes under Miguel, almost knocking him off the window sill,

as two humps of dirt pursue the noisy tractor.

A "spout" of dust erupts near the foundation as the creature

beneath zooms away toward the new sound.  Nancy whispers:

The CB radio squawks:

Earl is poised to leap.  Val steps up and slaps him on the

back.

Val instantly elbows Earl hard in the stomach.  As Earl

doubles over, Val springs off the edge of the roof.

We see Val running for all he's worth -- and there's the

bulldozer at the edge of town a

LOW CAMERA pursues the garden tractor as it bounces along.

Val charges across the vast open area that separates him from

the bulldozer.  We can hear the tractor droning along in the

background.

The tractor suddenly takes a bad bounce and flips over!  The

engine dies.  Total silence.

Earl, Rhonda and Miguel have seen the tractor take a header.

Val's crunching boots seem incredibly loud in the sudden

silence.  He hesitates, glancing over his shoulder.  He's

totally out in the open, halfway to the bulldozer.  Should he

run back or go forward?  He decides to go for the bulldozer.

All four creatures are now heading for Val.  INTERCUT four

slightly different LOW CAMERA ANGLES speeding over the

ground, racing after him.  He strains to the limit, breaths

coming in painful rasps -- but the creatures are closing in

on him with chilling ease.

Everyone watches in horror.

Val hears her and stops dead.  So do the creatures.  Maybe

twenty feet away, their giant snouts poke up out of the

ground: one, two, three, four.  Val stands trembling.  The

creatures softly shuffle back and forth, searching blindly

for him, hook-tentacles feeling everywhere.  One tentacle

sweeps toward Val's boot.  He manages to lift his foot just

in time, letting the tentacle pass beneath it.  He balances

precariously like a flamingo.

He starts jumping noisily up and down.  Miguel joins in,

cursing the monsters in Spanish.

Rhonda kicks and shouts.  But it's obvious they need some-

thing louder.  She spots the aging outlet pipe coming from

the water tank.  Bracing herself, she kicks at it with both

feet.  It finally gives way at a rusted joint.  A torrent of

water blasts out, thundering into the dirt.

All the creatures wheel about in the dirt and zoom off toward

town.  Val breathes a big sigh of relief and sprints to the

bulldozer.

A mass of tentacles and snouts swirl through the big puddle

where the water if falling.  The creatures' breathing throws

up spouts of muddy water.  Rhonda looks down nervously.  Earl

calls reassuringly from Pham Van's:

The dirt begins to

creatures are digging the dirt away!

The water tower tilts ever so slightly, creaking and

groaning!  Rhonda frantically grabs a handhold.

Val lands in the driver's seat and turns the engine over --

it doesn't start!

The old machine starts.  Val slams it into reverse and backs

up toward the semi trailer.

The water tower is starting to tilt seriously.  Water spills

over the top edge of the tank, drenching Rhonda.

Val has used heavy chains on the back of the bulldozer to

jerry-rig a hitch to the semi trailer.   Now he scrambles

back into the driver's seat.  He guns the engine, wrenching

the old semi trailer from years of dried mud and tumbleweeds.

Ancient tires disintegrate.  Rusted wheels screech and

complain -- but it moves.  Val lets out a whoop and heads

full-tilt for town.  He's suddenly shocked as he sees:

Rhonda's in big trouble.  She scrambles to the high side of

the tower platform.  The tower's going to tip over at any

moment!  It's roof slides off and crashes into the street!

On Pham Van's, Miguel and Earl are tearing apart the swamp

cooler, throwing pieces of it off the roof, trying to

distract the creatures, but they can't compete with the noise

from the water.

In BG the bulldozer rumbles toward the tower at top speed --

an excruciatingly slow eight miles per hour.

The tremendously heavy water tank suddenly tears loose,

sliding off its platform, nearly carrying Rhonda with it.

She ends up hanging from a cross beam as the water tank

splatters like an enormous egg below, sending a small tidal

wave down the street.

The remains of the tower tilt crazily nearly forty-five

degrees.  The bulldozer grinds closer and closer.  Rhonda

tries to climb up, but the jostling and shuddering of the

tower keeps her dangling precariously.  Suddenly she falls!

And lands in the dirt.  The creatures zero in on her!  She

turns wildly and leaps for the blade of the approaching

bulldozer.  The blade is only inches off the ground but Val

swiftly raises it, lifting Rhonda high into the air just

above the grasping tentacles!

As Rhonda climbs down into the cab, Val heads the bulldozer

over to Pham Van's and stops.  Almost as soon as he does,

creatures attack, a frenzy of tentacles grabbing at all sides

of the massive earth-moving machine, slithering into the

treads.  Val and Rhonda watch this nervously as Earl and

Miguel quickly clamber from the roof down into the protective

steel belly of the semi trailer.

Val mentally crosses his fingers and sends the bulldozer

roaring forward.  It effortlessly tears loose from the

tentacles, grinding one to pulp in its treads.  The creature

shrieks in pain.  The humans cheer!  At last they've got the

upper hand!

Melvin dances merrily, and

The flimsy shed seems almost to explode as a furious creature

roars up inside.  The walls buckle out.  The whole structure

sags.  Melvin scrambles to peak of the roof.

As the unseen creature thrashes around inside the shed, the

walls topple outward and the roof drops to the ground like a

pancake.  Melvin has lost all self control and just keeps

screaming.  Val pulls along side, jumps down onto the tread,

and reaches out to Melvin.  But just as they join hands, the

creature hits the roof from beneath, dragging it several

feet.  Val is yanked off the bulldozer and lands with Nelvin

on the roof!

The creature slams into the roof repeatedly, but the

corrugated metal is both light and resilient.  It bends, but

the frustrated monster can't get enough "bite" to tear

through it.  Val and Melvin straddle the peak of the roof,

trying desperately to hang on as it heaves up, buckling like a

bronco.

Earl scrambles into the bulldozer driver's seat and heads

after them at full throttle, the big diesel roaring.

Melvin and Val prepare to jump onto the bulldozer, but just

before it reaches them the roof suddenly starts to slide like

some mad flying carpet, carried from beneath by a creature!

Val hangs on like a rodeo rider, struggling to keep fear-

crazed Melvin from tumbling off.

The roof zigs and zags, spins and twists.  Melvin and Val

won't be shaken loose.  Earl does his best to head it off,

but it's hard to predict which way the roof will scoot next.

The rood careens alongside the edge of a dirt-walled drainage

ditch, then suddenly skitters sideways and plunges over the

edge.  Melvin and Val tumble to the bottom.  As they jump to

their feet:

Val sees, almost right above them, an exposed pipe which

spans the ditch.  He shoves Melvin toward it.  They leap up

and grab the pipe, pulling their legs up as high as they can.

An instant later, the creature blasts through one wall of the

ditch, roars past beneath them and burrows into the opposite

wall!

Earl brings the bulldozer to a thundering stop next to them.

Nancy and Mindy huddle together on their roof.  The upraised

scoop blade of the bulldozer comes INTO SHOT with Val riding

it.  He helps them step across into it.

Burt is using a hacksaw to cut lengths from a heavy vertical

pipe to which his TV antenna was anchored.  Heather works

with the sections Burt has already cut off.  She is filling

them with gunpowder from reloading cannisters and hammering

the ends shut -- they're making bombs.

Then they hear rumbling.  What is it, more creatures?  They're

surprised by the odd sight of the strange contraption

approaching.

Val climbs up on the bulldozer roll cage so he's about even

with Heather and Burt.  A creature occasionally slams into the

underside of the bulldozer of the semi trailer, rocking them

slightly, throwing up clouds of dust.

He grabs a coil of blackpowder cannon fuse.  He cuts off a

length and stuffs it in the end of one of the pipe bombs

during:

Burt hefts the finished bomb.

Just then the bulldozer starts to tilt sideways, creatures

digging dirt away beneath it.  Earl guns it forward out of

the depression they're making.

Burt and Heather are impressed.  They rush around the

rooftop, gathering food, ammo, guns, the finished bombs,

handing them to impatient Val who hands them down to people

in the semi trailer during:

He holds up to rifles to Heather, the HK91 assault rifle and

another elephant gun.

Burt nods.  Everyone on the bulldozer and semi trailer shouts:

Dust flies up.  The bulldozer tilts.  Earl guns it forward

again.  Heather and Burt grab a few more things and leap down

into the semi trailer.

Earl pilots the strange looking contraption out into the

desert.  Burt and Heather watch their fortress-home recede.

Heather puts a consoling arm around him.

The bulldozer easily lumbers along the really rough road we

saw Val and Earl's truck struggle over the other morning.

As they come closer we see Burt and Heather riding "shotgun,"

he sitting out in the bulldozer's scoop, she on the rear of

the semi trailer, elephant guns at the ready.  Val, Earl and

Rhonda are in the cab.

It's late afternoon, sun casting dramatic shadows across the

beautiful desert.  We are WIDE on the bizarre vehicle,

resolutely grinding along not far from the cliffs, nearing

the mountains ahead.

As they scan the desert, the people are feeling like they may

get out of this after all.  Earl calls back to the people in

the semi trailer.

As they top a gentle rise, Burt excitedly points ahead.

Everyone cheers.  But then Heather points up ahead to one

side.

Perhaps two hundred yards from them, a huge cloud of dust

wells up from behind big boulders.

Everyone stares uneasily at the billowing cloud.

Earl shoves the throttle all the way.  The engine screams.

We MOVE IN through the cloud of dust.  Dirt is flying by the

ton out of en eight foot diameter hole in the ground.  A huge

mound of the tunneled-out dirt is already piled high.  The

creatures are digging a tunnel -- but why?

We watch the bulldozer rumbling along.  It seems unstop-

able.  The mountains and safety are barely a mile away --

when the EARTH CAVES IN!!  THE BULLDOZER PLUNGES NOSE FIRST

INTO AN UNSEEN PIT DUG JUST BENEATH THE SURFACE!

The machine ends up half-buried at a steep angle.  The semi

trailer is right on the edge of the pit.  Everyone is shaken,

bruised, bloodied.  Val, Earl and Rhonda look frantically for

Burt, who was riding out front in the scoop.  They're

relieved to see him clawing his way out of pit.  Val hauls

him up and all four of them now leap into the semi trailer.

As they come to rest, Val slowly realizes what's happened.

The idling bulldozer engine coughs and dies.  There is a

moment's crushing silence.

Then the dreaded digging begins.  Dust boils up around the

semi trailer -- creatures digging from below!  The semi

trailer shakes and shudders, slowly sinking.  The people

huddle together in sheer panic.  Val and Earl grab the

nearest of Burt and Heather's guns and fire wildly, hope-

lessly, down at the dirt.  Ricochets whine into the distance.

Burt grimly digs an overloaded knapsack for one of his

pipe bombs.  He leaps up between Val and Earl and lights the

fuse, looking for a target.

He tosses the bomb at some churning earth and dives back into

the semi trailer.

KABOOM!  The explosion throws up a big plume of dust and

rocks.  We hear a

creatures.  The semi trailer instantly stops shaking.  The

creatures have stopped digging.  All is quiet.

The people peer up over the edge of the semi trailer, looking

all around.  Then:

Numerous spurts of dust mark their paths as they race madly

away, fanning out from the semi trailer.

Earl's already staring down at the bulldozer.

Val looks around.

Toward the cliffs he sees a big rock outcrop.

Rhonda points in the opposite direction from where Val is

looking.

Heather unexpectedly fire two deafening blasts from her

elephant gun at the approaching creatures, then shakes her

head, frustrated.  They're still coming.

Wham!  With a jolt the semi trailer begins shaking and

shuddering again -- sinking, smiling.

Glances all around.

Val squats in front of tear-streaked Mindy.

As Burt readies another bomb, he pauses to hand bug-eyed

Melvin a huge Ruger Super Redhawk 44 magnum handgun.

Melvin's eyes bug out further.  Burt lights his bomb.

He hurls the bomb.  Wait.  Wait.  WHOOOM!  Again we hear the

creatures' unearthly shriek of pain.  Rhonda's on her feet

before the rocks stop falling.  She spots the creatures.

Earl lets out a war wild WHOOP.  It's infectious.  CRANE UP

with them as everyone piles out of the semi trailer like

soldiers out of a trench -- they charge across no-man's-land.

Melvin runs like a demon.  He tries to shoot at the first

thing he sees but the gun just clicks over and over -- empty.

Enraged, he doubles his speed, trying to overtake Burt.

Mindy can't keep up.  Nancy tries to pull her along.  Val and

Earl swoop in, grab Mindy under either arm, and carry her

between them.

The ground heaves violently as the retreating monsters

angrily wheel about and charge back after the humans.

Big slabs jutting this way and that -- a rock iceberg in a

sand ocean.  The people scramble onto it amid whoops of joy

and relief.  Melvin charges up to Burt:

Burt's line gets a laugh from people, but then tentacles

burst up on all sides of the rock, probing, feeling.  The

effect is instantly sobering.  Burt swiftly grabs out his

remaining bombs -- six of them -- and holds one ready.  But

they're in no immediate danger.

The hopelessness of the situation suddenly hits Val, Earl,

and Rhonda.  After a moment:

As this sinks in, Burt loses his cool, igniting an argument.

Everyone stares in surprise at normally quiet Nancy.

There's a long, grim silence.  Everyone sits glumly.

Finally, Burt picks up a bomb and contemplates it:

Heather puts a soothing hand on his shoulder.

But now Earl brightens a little.

The others react.  Is Earl nuts?

In the open desert, a rock lands.  Then another.  Val and

Rhonda are throwing them from the rock outcrop.

Val, Earl, Rhonda, and Burt have moved away from the main

group to another section of the rock outcrop where

intervening boulders will protect everyone from an explosion.

Earl has tied a bomb to some nylon rope form one of Burt's

knapsacks.  Burt places the other bombs safely out of the way

behind a ledge.  Meanwhile, Val and Rhonda keep throwing

rocks.  Soon, the ground shifts.

Burt has his coil of fuse.

Burt nods, expertly eyeballing a fifteen second length and

snipping it off.  As he stuffs it into the bomb:

The bomb is ready -- it's moment of truth.  Earl digs in his

pocket for the lighter -- but Val has it.  Val nervously

leans over to light the fuse, but then frowns as he sees how

Earl is holding the rope.

Val shakes his head and lights the fuse.  Earl whirls the

bomb on the end of its rope like a lasso, and lets it fly out

as far as he can.  Then he starts pulling it back in along

the ground like a fishing lure.  Rhonda stares at her watch

as they all sink down behind the protective boulder.

Suddenly a snout subtly surfaces and gulps down the bomb.  A

tense two seconds later -- KABOOOM!  Bullseye!  It's a

volcano of gory creature parts.  They splatter all over!  The

remaining creatures shriek and race away again.  The people

cheer wildly.

Val, Earl, Rhonda, and Burt prepare to try again.  This time

Val has the rope and a new bomb.  Rhonda stands by him, ready

with the lighter.  Earl lobs rocks out into the desert.

Rhonda shakily lights the fuse.  Val heaves the bomb out and

starts trolling.  The creature swallows it.  Everyone drops

down behind the boulder, Val impulsively grabbing a second

bomb. They tense with anticipatory glee -- but the creature

suddenly

their heads.  It strikes the rocks above them, skittering

down a crevice and landing in -- BURT'S PILE OF BOMBS!

Val, Earl, and Rhonda scatter.  Burt dives backward over a

rock ledge.

BABABAMMM!!  All the bombs explode, throwing rocks every-

where.  The creatures streak away.  Val, Earl and Rhonda

sprawl into the dirt, half stunned.

When the panic is over, Val and Earl realize where they are --

fifty yards out in open desert!  So is Rhonda, off at an

angle from them!  Only Burt is safe on the rock outcrop.

And the creatures are coming back fast!

The stranded trio starts back for the outcrop, but the

creatures burst up ahead of them -- one blocking Rhonda's

path, the other two cutting Val and Earl off!  The creatures

roar toward their easy prey!

Val and Earl freeze.  The ground bulges as the creatures

"skid" to a halt not ten feet from them.  Rhonda stands stock

still some fifty feet away, eyeing her own creature.

Over on the outcrop with the main group of people Heather

sizes up the situation.

Everyone starts hopping up and down, yelling, screaming, and

clapping.  Burt even runs a few feet out from the rocks,

firing a pistol into the dirt.

The crowd keeps up the ruckus.  The creatures are distracted

by the noise, but

it.  Their big snouts turn uncertainly this way and that.

But they just stay where they are.  Their hook-tentacles

slide out, feeling all around.  Earl whispers:

Heather takes careful aim with her elephant gun.

But before she can fire, the creatures mysteriously sink from

view.  Val, Rhonda, and Earl remain frozen.  What the hell is

going on?  Nothing happens -- then --

A HUGE HUMP OF EARTH suddenly wells up near Rhonda.  It sinks

back down as fast as it appeared.  It's like the creature

suddenly lifted its whole body almost to the surface then

submerged again.  Another hump rises and falls right near Val

and Earl.  There's a pause as the men whisper:

The creatures try another random "barrage" of humps, some

coming perilously close.  They know they'll eventually topple

their prey.  One comes so close to Val and Earl that pebbles

roll down its sides into their boots!

More humps rise and fall.  Val gives in.  He signals Rhonda,

gesturing with the bomb.  She understands.  He'll set it off,

driving away the creatures, and they'll all run back to the

outcrop.

Val digs for the lighter.  Doesn't have it.  Earl digs for

it, too.  But

How can that be?  They look across fifty feet of deadly open

ground -- trembling

Over on the outcrop, Burt shouts:

Val signals to Rhonda to throw the lighter.  She nods.  But

just before she does, A HUMP STARTS RISING DIRECTLY UNDER

HER!  She fights to keep her balance -- struggling to keep

from taking that single step which will instantly tell the

creatures where she is.

But there's no hope.  The hump jerks higher.  Her boots slip

down the gravelly side!  Instantly the creature twists toward

her, its hungry mouth erupting out of the dirt.  She screams

and dashes for Val and Earl.  They run to meet her.  The

other creatures surface.  The trio is cut off from the rock

outcrop!

Val and Earl link up with Rhonda and they all run madly while

Rhonda tries to light Val's bomb fuse.  But suddenly Val

yanks the bomb away.

He veers off in a new direction.  Startled Earl and Rhonda

have no choice but to follow.  As they desperately try to

catch up to Val:

Earl looks up ahead.  They're headed right for --

The massive cliffs.  Earl's eyes bug out.  In seconds they'll

be right at the brink with nowhere to run.

As they skid to a stop at the very brink, Val breaks off the

bomb fuse, leaving only one inch of it.  He whirls to check

the progress of the advancing creatures.

He holds the bomb out to Rhonda.  She instantly tries to

light it.  He grabs her wrist so hard it hurts.

The charging creatures are almost underfoot.  Finally Val

pulls Rhonda's hand over to light the fuse.  Instantly he

hurls the bomb as far as he can,

The ground opens under their feet!  Tentacles snake toward

Val and Earl.  A horrid mouth clamps onto Rhonda's boot.  She

screams as it starts to pull her down.

WHOOOM!!  The bomb explodes!  The creatures shriek in pain,

instantly releasing their prey and racing away from the

painful shock wave in the only direction they can --

shrieking creatures seem to hang in mid-air for a moment,

their grotesque bodies undulating in pain.  And then they

fall!  And fall and fall -- a thousand feet!

The creatures land on massive jagged rocks, exploding like

immense, horrid watermelons.  Multi-colored gore festoons the

whole cliff face.

TILT UP to see three tiny figures standing at the top of the

cliff.

Val peers down at the distant creatures for a long time.  Then

he notices Earl and Rhonda are staring at him.  Where the

did he get an idea like that?  After a moment:

They turn and head back toward the others.  They laugh as

they realize how stealthily they are walking.  Val starts

taking big, exaggerated stomping steps.  Rhonda and Earl

follow suit.  The trio goes off arm in arm, stomping merrily.

Val and Earl roll two scavenged truck wheels down the street

toward their own truck; which is up on jacks, two wheels

missing.

Mindy races past excitedly.

A highway maintenance truck is rolling into town followed by

a police car.  The townsfolk happily swarm around the

MAINTENANCE MEN and POLICE OFFICER who gape at the destroyed

town.

Val and Earl eagerly start bolting on one of their new wheels.

Rhonda pulls up in her truck, leans out and snaps their

picture with a top-of-the-line Nikon.

An awkward pause.  Finally she extends her hand to them.  Val

just gives it a quick shake.

She gazes at him, just a hint of something in her eyes.  Earl

springs to attention.  Is the boy

out of it.

They nod.  She drives off.  Earl stares at Val who starts

putting the second wheel on the truck.

Earl freezes as a bell goes off in his head.

Val glares at Earl for a moment.

Earl is dumbfounded.

Val lowers the jack letting the truck down.

Earl stands there fuming, mind racing.  A last ditch idea

hits home -- we see a devilish glint in his eye.

Earl hops into the truck.

Earl starts to drive off.  Val springs into the passenger

seat.  Through the truck's rear window we see Val raise his

hand in The Challenge.  They do a round of scissors-rock-

paper -- but it's a tie.  They go again.  Another tie.  They

keep playing and tying as they drive off into the distance

and we --

