FADE IN

A white title appears on a black screen.

The title fades off, replaced by a second title.

INT.  A WOMB.  DAY.

A fiber optic camera observes a five-month-old MALE FETUS as he

gently floats, weightless, suspended in the amniotic fluid of

his mother's womb.  We focus on the unborn's hand, already a

tiny, exquisite work of art, moving towards his newly formed

lips.  He sucks his thumb.

INT.  HOSPITAL - DELIVERY ROOM.  DAY.

A seconds old BABY BOY - umbilical cord still attached,

smeared with blood and protective skin grease - is held up

by an anonymous pair of latex gloves to the camera.  Shocked by

the unaccustomed light and cool of the delivery room, the

newborn fights for his first, arduous breath.  Following almost

immediately, a cry.

From another angle we see the crying infant on a television

screen, the individual lines of the screen clearly visible.

MATCH DISSOLVE TO

INT.  CAR - UTOPIA, QUEENS.  MORNING.

The face of the baby thirty-four years later, still crying.

TRUMAN BURBANK, thinning hair, a body going soft around the

edges, appearing older than his thirty-four years sits at the

wheel of his eight-year-old Oldsmobile Cutlass Supreme.  He

cries without shame, making no attempt to wipe away the tears.

Pausing at an intersection in a quiet, working-class suburban

street, a spherical glass object suddenly falls from the sky and

lands with a deafening crash on the roadway, several yards in

front of his idling car.

Truman exits the Oldsmobile to investigate.  Amidst a sea of

shattered glass are the remains of a light mechanism.

He looks around him but the street is deserted.  He checks that

all the surrounding streetlights are accounted for, even though

the fallen fixture is far larger.  He looks up into the sky but

there is no plane in sight.  With some effort, Truman picks up

what's left of the crumpled light, loads it into the trunk of

his car and drives away.

INT.  CAR - TRAIN STATION PARKING LOT.  MORNING.

TRUMAN sits behind the wheel of his car, unscrews the cap of

a miniature bottle of Jack Daniels and empties the contents into

his Styrofoam cup of coffee.  Stirring it in with his finger, he

burns himself.

As Truman drinks, he becomes aware of the delighted squeals of

children coming from the gymnasium of Utopia Elementary School,

adjacent to the parking lot.  The sound of the children triggers

a memory in his head.

EXT.  LONG, WIDE BEACH.  DAY, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

Unlike a conventional flashback, the scene in his memory appears

to be playing on a television screen.

A sandy-haired, SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN, runs towards a bluff on

the beach.

The boy's father, KIRK, late-thirties, beer bottle in hand,

flirts with two TEENAGE GIRLS at the shoreline.  Suddenly, the

father remembers his son.  He looks anxiously around.  The sight

of the boy at the far end of the beach causes him to drop his

bottle in the sand and run to him.

The boy is near the top of the cliff before his agitated father

comes within earshot.

Truman turns from his perch and waves happily down to his

father.  But the smile quickly vanishes when he registers the

anger and distress on his father's face.

His father's unnatural anxiety makes the next bay even more

tantalizing.  The boy considers defying his father.  He puts

his hand on the rock above him to stretch up and sneak a peek at

the other side.  One good stretch would do it.

Truman is suddenly aware that the hundreds of other BEACHGOERS

have stopped their activities to stare at him.  Reluctantly

he starts to retrace his steps down the rocks.  When he finally

jumps to the sand, his father grabs him roughly by the arm and

drags him away down the beach.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN, FINANCIAL DISTRICT.  MORNING.

TRUMAN emerges from a subway exit in Lower Manhattan and walks

briskly down the bustling street.  A snarl of taxis, buses and

COMMUTER traffic.  A STREET VENDOR thrusts a pretzel under

Truman's nose, a CAREER WOMAN catches his eye.

Truman stops at a newspaper stand and plucks an issue of

Cosmopolitan from the rack, quickly flicking through the glossy

pages.  Glancing in the direction of the NEWSPAPER VENDOR and

finding him busy with another customer, Truman deftly tears a

portion of the open page and pockets the cutting.

He guiltily replaces the magazine, startled to find the

Newspaper Vendor standing close behind him.

As Truman hurries away, the Vendor picks up the copy of Cosmo

and instantly turns to the torn page.  It is a Lancome

advertisement with ISABELLA ROSSELLINI's nose missing.

Truman is still in view but the Vendor makes no effort to

confront him, almost as if he were expecting it.

Passing one of the tall, black mirrored buildings that grow

out of the pavement, Truman glimpses himself in the reflective

glass.  He doesn't like what he sees and attempts to suck in his

gut, but quickly concedes defeat.  The image triggers another

childhood memory.

INT.  SCHOOLROOM.  DAY, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

Once again, the flashback appears to be playing on a television

screen.

The sandy-haired SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN sits in the middle row of

a Catholic Elementary School classroom surrounded by thirty-or-

so other well-scrubbed, uniformed YOUNGSTERS.  DOUGLAS, the boy

next to Truman is on his feet under the scrutiny of a sixty-

year-old NUN with a face as wrinkled as her habit is starched.

The CLASS titters.  Douglas sits down, pleased with himself,

throwing a smirk to Truman.

Truman rises to his feet.

The Sister's face falls.

The class roars with laughter and Truman takes his seat.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN, FINANCIAL DISTRICT.  MORNING.

From TRUMAN'S POV we see that he is staring up at relief

letters that proclaim, "American Life & Accident Insurance,

Inc." above an office building's entrance.

A POLICE OFFICER walking his beat, wanders in Truman's

direction.  From another angle, we observe Truman from the

Police Officer's POV - shaky, handheld camera - on a television

screen.  Truman enters the building.

INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY - TWELFTH FLOOR.  DAY.

In a cramped, cluttered, windowless cubicle, TRUMAN talks on

the telephone.

A CLERK drops a large reference book on Truman's desk.  He

checks the spine - "MORTALITY STATISTICS, 1986 to Present".

The Clerk shrugs, returns the book to his trolley and continues

his rounds.

The person on the other end has hung up.  With an apathetic

shrug, Truman replaces the receiver.  He looks over his shoulder

and places another call.

Truman replaces the receiver, disappointed.

INT.  LOCAL ITALIAN DELI.  LUNCHTIME.

TRUMAN stands in line with a crush of other WHITE COLLAR

WORKERS.  As he reaches the counter, the store owner, TYRONE,

has anticipated his order and ahs already begun preparing a

meatball and mozzarella sandwich on Italian roll.  Truman gazes

at the sandwich skillfully under construction, pained by his own

predictability.

Truman forces a half-smile.

We focus on another MALE OFFICE WORKER in line at the cash

register, watching Truman out of the corner of his eye.  About

to depart with his sandwich, the man receives a guarded rebuke

from the FEMALE CASHIER.

We re-focus our attention on Truman who is taking the wrapped

sandwich from Tyrone.

Tyrone holds up a front page of the New York Post that

features a photograph of a scaled-down replica of Columbus'

Santa Maria, moored in front of the Manhattan skyline.  Truman's

eyes widen at the photograph.

Tyrone tries not to let his disappointment show as Truman pays

the Cashier and exits.

EXT.  CITY PARK.  DAY.

TRUMAN eats lunch alone on a concrete bench in a cement park.

From his briefcase he pulls out an old hardcovered book, "To The

Ends Of The Earth - The Age Of Exploration".

A TRANSIENT in a wheelchair approaches, looking for a handout.

Truman gives the homeless man half of his sandwich, reconsiders

and gives him it all, his appetite gone.  As the transient

wheels himself away, Truman loses himself in his book.

INT.  A DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

Close up on an old man's face.  CHRISTOF.  Hair pure white,

late-sixties, a vitality in his eyes that belies his years.

He stands beside a floor-to-ceiling window in a dimly-lit room.

Outside the window, a single palm tree swaying against a deep

blue Californian sky.  A news anchor-style earpiece disappears

down the neck of the unconventionally-cut suit he wears.

Suspended from the ceiling above his head is a television

monitor upon which a surveillance picture of Truman, engrossed

in his book, silently plays.

CHLOE, twenty-something, androgenous-looking, similarly-suited,

joins Christof at the window.

INT.  A CONFERENCE ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

A group of a dozen MEN and WOMEN of varying ages sit around

a circular conference table in a sterile, windowless meeting

room.  All stare at a single telephone placed in the center of

the table, anticipating a call.  On cue, the phone rings and one

of the men, after waiting for the second ring, picks up.

He hangs up.  After a moment the phone rings again.

INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY.  DAY.

TRUMAN sits at his desk, making a cold call.

The prospect on the other end, unimpressed with his pitch, hangs

up.  Truman's supervisor, LAWRENCE, younger than Truman by

several years, sharper suit, sharper haircut, appears around the

corner of the cubicle.

Truman turns pale.

Lawrence exits the cubicle.  Truman's head drops.  He picks up

the framed picture of his wife from his desk.  MERYL, early

thirties, a petite woman easy to mistake for frail.  He deposits

the photo in his briefcase and departs.

INT.  MUNICIPAL FERRY TERMINAL.  DAY.

TRUMAN, briefcase in hand, ashen-faced, stands in line for the

Staten Island ferry.

As the TOURISTS and COMMUTERS impatiently brush past him onto

the boat, Truman remains frozen to the spot, mesmerized by the

scummy water rising and falling beneath the dock, triggering

a flashback in his head.

EXT.  LONG ISLAND SOUND.  DUSK, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

The flashback once again appearing an a television screen, the

SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN sits alongside his father, KIRK, in a

small sailing dinghy.

Kirk shakes his head ruefully and indulges his son by heading

towards the gathering storm clouds on the horizon.

INT.  MUNICIPAL FERRY TERMINAL.  DAY.

TRUMAN turns and begins to fight his way back against the tide

of PASSENGERS boarding the ferry, emerging back on the street

into the bright sunlight, gasping for air.

Gathering himself, he makes for the entrance of Whitehall Street

subway station.  Two COMMUTERS surrepticiously observe Truman as

he departs.

INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN.  DAY.

TRUMAN stands in a packed subway car, anxiously glancing at his

watch, wiping his perspiring hairline with a hankerchief.

INT. TAXI.  DAY.

A taxi crosses the Verrazano-Narrows Bridge towards Staten

Island.  TRUMAN keeps his eyes shut tight all the way across.

refusing to look down at the entrance to New York harbor.

EXT.  BAY STREET, STATEN ISLAND.  DAY.

TRUMAN finally reaches his destination at a well-to-do

condominium on Bay Street.  As he approaches the lobby, he

realizes he has perspiration showing through the armpits of his

suit jacket.

INT.  CONDOMINIUM.  DAY.

A middle-aged CONCIERGE behind a reception desk, is having his

hair brushed by a YOUNGER MAN in his mid-thirties.  Anticipating

Truman's arrival, the hairdresser fusses one more time and

swiftly departs through a rear door.  TRUMAN enters the lobby

and approaches the CONCIERGE, trying to keep his arms tightly at

his sides to hide the perspiration.

A clock on the wall reads 4.l2pm.

INT.  SUBWAY.  AFTERNOON.

TRUMAN sits by himself in the rattling subway car, defeated.

The only other occupants in the train, a TALL WOMAN, mid-

thirties, reading a pulp novel and two MALE YOUTHS, late-teens,

sitting opposite the woman, slouching, ogling her.

His companion smirks.

The woman looks up, unaware of the boys' presence until now.

She quickly avoids eye contact and returns to the book.  The

other boy reaches over and snatches the novel from her grasp.

The woman picks up her bag from the floor in a reflex and

holds it to her.  She looks around the train for assistance,

briefly catching Truman's eye.  The youths also look in

Truman's direction, staring him down, daring him to interfere.

Truman quickly averts his gaze.

The boy returns the book to the woman, but before doing so rips

out the last page from the novel and stuffs it in his shirt

pocket.

The train pulls into a deserted station.  Feeling vulnerable,

the woman jumps up from her seat and exits.  The youths, sensing

a chase, also exit.  Scanning the empty platform, the woman

realizes she has made a serious error.  Truman watches through

the train's open door as the boys corner the frightened woman

but still he remains in his seat.

One of the youths produces a knife from his pocket and waves it

in the woman's face.

The boys pin the woman to the station wall with the weight of

their bodies.  The woman looks again in Truman's direction.

Again she makes eye contact, eyes pleading.

The woman's second scream is muffled as the train door closes.

Truman looks up to the emergency handle beside the door.  There

is still time to act.  He stands up and half-reaches for the

handle but moves no further.

The train abruptly pulls away, leaving Truman time to see one of

the youths covering the woman's mouth while the other reaches

under her skirt before the train enters the tunnel.  Truman bows

his head in shame as the train rattles on.

INT.  SUBWAY STATION.  DAY.

The train safely out of sight, the YOUTHS promptly release the

WOMAN.  She calmly hitches down her skirt, no longer afraid.

The young men, no longer angry, help fix her hair and retrieve

her shoulder bag.

The threesome walk along the platform together, as if lifelong

friends.

EXT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  DUSK.

The backyard of a modest but tidy one-story tract home.  Beyond

the plank fence at the end of the property flows a busy

Expressway.

TRUMAN wheels a lawnmower towards the garage as his wife, MERYL,

pulls up the drive in her four-year-old Toyota Camry.  She has a

sensible blue vinyl bag over her shoulder and carries a new

knife-set in a wooden block.  She kisses Truman affectionately

on the cheek.

Looking over Truman's shoulder, she notices a small uncut patch

of grass, missed by Truman in one of his passes.

Meryl enters the house.  Truman restarts the lawnmower and

obediantly pushes it towards the offending patch of lawn.  As

the mower brushes up against the unconforming blades of grass,

Truman pulls back abruptly.  He checks the kitchen window for

Meryl and wheels the mower away, leaving the patch uncut.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  DAY.

MERYL is applying ointment to her wrists as TRUMAN enters.

Truman picks up Meryl's newspaper and skims idly through it.  He

notes an article headlined, "SLAYING TRIAL ENTERS SIXTH WEEK".

She flexes her arthritic wrists.

Truman turns to her too sharply, his guilt showing.

EXT.  UNOPENED FREEWAY.  NIGHT.

An abandoned freeway project in Queens.  The four hundred yard

stretch of deserted freeway is paved but unmarked.  At one end

is an off-ramp that abruptly ends in inid-air, reinforcing steel

protuding from the concrete.

TRUMAN stands at the end of the off-ramp with MARLON, thirty-

two, the kind of physique some descibe as fat, others big.

Marlon drinks beer from a can while Truman addresses a teed-up

golf ball with a number three wood.

Truman winds up and swings, making a healthy contact with the

ball.  The ball arches away into the night sky, lit by the

adjacent operating roadway.  From a new angle we see the ball

take a huge hop on the outside lane of the abandoned freeway and

continue down the asphalt.

Marlon tosses Truman another ball from a bucket of badly scarred

golf balls - a ball initialed with the letter, "T".  Truman sets

the ball up on the makeshift tee area and launches himself into

his second shot.  With a slight fade, the second ball carries

even further than the first.

Truman hands Marlon their sole golf club without comment.

Marlon is still looking admiringly in the direction of the shot.

Marlon tees up a ball of his own. initialed with the letter "M".

Marlon takes a practise swing.

Marlon addresses the ball and swings.  A sweeping hook shot

that bounces off the freeway out of bounds.

Truman selects another "M" ball from the bucket and tosses it to

Marlon.

Overcompensating with his second shot, Marlon slices the ball in

the other direction.  A lucky bounce keeps it on the cement

fairway.

Truman gulps his beer as he prepares his answer.

Truman picks up a golf ball to demonstrate.  He points to a

dimple on his make-shift globe.

Marlon nods even though the concept of taking flight is beyond

his imagination.

An awkward moment.  Truman, once again, not so sure of himself.

He masks his doubt by teeing up another ball.

DISSOLVE TO

EXT.  FREEWAY.  LATER THAT NIGHT.

TRUMAN and MARLON wander down the empty freeway, retrieving

the golf balls.  As they return them to the bucket they check

the initial on each ball to determine the winner of their

long-drive competition.

Marlon looks sideways at Truman.  It sounds to him like the beer

talking.

They approach Truman's Oldsmobile.  Truman opens the trunk to

deposit their humble golfing equipment.  Inside are the remains

of the fallen light fixture.

EXT.  EATON'S NECK POINT.  DUSK, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

The lines of a television screen signal another of Truman's

flashbacks.  A small group of MOURNERS in black, several openly

weeping, stand on the end of a small jetty, including the SEVEN-

YEAR-OLD TRUMAN, dry-eyed in an ill-fitting suit, his weeping

MOTHER, older sister, RAQUEL, and a PRIEST at the head of the

gathering.

The priest nods to Truman who holds an ornate wreath, heavy and

cumbersome in his tiny hands.  He heaves it off the dock.

MATCH DISSOLVE TO

EXT.  EATON'S NECK POINT, LONG ISLAND.  NIGHT, PRESENT.

A smaller, more simple wreath lands on the calm, dark water

beyond the jetty twenty-seven years later.  TRUMAN stares at the

wreath for a long moment, turns and wanders back towards the

shoreline.

In his work suit minus his shoes and socks, he sits on the sand.

He has a portable tape recorder slung over his shoulder and

points a corded microphone at the surf.  For a long while we

watch Truman's impassive face as he makes the recording of the

lapping waves, staring up at the handful of stars visible

through the gloom.

We focus on the lantern room of a nearby lighthouse.  From the

light's POV, through the green hue of a night vision camera, we

observe Truman get to his feet and walk towards the dark water.

INT.  DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF's dispassionate face is reflected in the screen of a

television monitor that displays the distraught TRUMAN at the

water's edge.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

At the Formica kitchen table, TRUMAN makes calculations in a

school notebook, a bottle of beer close at hand.  MERYL appears

in her robe, a glimpse of black negligee beneath, restless.  She

throws her arms around Truman's neck.

Getting to his feet.  Truman holds Meryl by the arms, talking

excitedly to her the way we imagine he did when they were

courting.

Meryl gives a derisive laugh.

The words sting.  Truman turns away.

Seeing the pain she's caused, she changes tack.

EXT.  A NIGHTWATCHMAN'S OFFICE SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

In a nightwatchman's office, two UNIFORMED GUARDS drink coffee.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

TRUMAN stands in the darkened bedroom in his Hanes underwear

looking down at his bed.  MERYL has fallen asleep waiting for

him, snoring lightly.  Truman rests his hand tentatively on the

bed.  The surface rocks.  A waterbed.  The motion triggers a

flashback in his head.

EXT.  LONG ISLAND SOUND.  DAWN, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

As always the flashback appears to play on a television screen.

The SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN sits on the upturned hull of a small

dinghy in calm, deep water.

His cries go unanswered.

INT.  A LIVING ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

Two OLD WOMEN, seventies, sit beside wach other on a sofa

against a bare wall, looking directly into camera as they

talk.  Nothing else of the room is seen.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN.  MORNING.

TRUMAN emerges from the subway station and as usual stops at the

newspaper stand. He picks up a copy of Vogue and flips through

the glossy cosmetic ads, surreptitiously tearing CLAUDIA

SCHIFFER's nose from one of the pages.  He returns the magazine

to the rack and begins his daily pilgrimage to work through the

rush hour pedestrian traffic.

Pausing to check his profile in the mirrored building, he

glimpses the reflection of a HOMELESS MAN standing directly

behind him.  Truman, spellbound by the man, suddenly wheels

around to face him.  The Homeless Han is in his late-sixties.

more well-groomed and well-fed than the average vagrant, with a

serene smile on his face.

From a new angle we see a two-shot of Truman and the Man on a

television screen.  The Homeless Man places his hand ever so

gently on Truman's cheek.  Truman makes no effort to withdraw.

He is transfixed by the the man's eyes.  He appears to recognize

him.

Suddenly a distinguished OLD WOMAN walking a small dog and a

YOUNG MALE BUSINESS EXECUTIVE carrying a briefcase, walking in

opposite directions along the sidewalk, grab the Homeless Man,

one taking each arm.

A bus suddenly screeches to a halt beside the struggling group,

doors already open, and before Truman can react, the Old Woman

and the Young Executive force the Homeless Man onto the bus.

Truman lurches after them, but he is met by the bus doors,

closing sharply in his face.

Truman thumps against the doors, but the BUS DRIVER ignores his

cries and the bus roars away from the curb.  He starts to run

after the bus, colliding with several PEDESTRIANS who make no

attempt to avoid him.

Stepping blindly into the street, he tries to hail a taxi.

A vacant cab suddenly switches off its "FOR HIRE" light as he

reaches it.  Truman pleads with the TAXI DRIVER through the

closed windows and locked doors of the cab but the driver is

apparently oblivious to Truman's shouts.

Frantic, Truman, dashes into a nearby parking structure and

grabs a bunch of car keys from the key rack of the unsupervised

parking attendant's kiosk.  Running along the rows of parked

cars, Truman desperately presses the car security buttons

attached to the key rings

A car alarm chirps and Truman turns in time to see the car's

winking sidelights.  He jumps inside a brand new BMW and guns

the car.  The PARKING ATTENDANT, alerted by the squealing tires,

appears from the Men's Room and attempts to wave Truman down.

Truman ignores the attendant and accelerates into the street

without looking, causing a taxi and a postal van to take

evasive action.

Catching sight of the bus in the distance, Truman leans on the

car's horn as he recklessly weaves past other motorists.  He is

only a couple of car-lengths from the bus.

Suddenly the taxis and cars directly in front of him start to

slow for no apparent reason.  Truman looks for a way around

but the cars crab across the street, blocking any passage,

working together almost as if they are running interference.

The bus is escaping.

Truman suddenly jumps the sidewalk in the car, scattering

PEDESTRIANS.

The same cars on the street that seemed intent on slowing his

progress suddenly accelerate in unison, anticipating his move.

By the time Truman reaches the end of the sidewalk, the cars are

clustered together on the corner in an impenetrable jam.  Truman

spies the bus turn the corner at the far end of the street and

disappear from view.

Fumbling with the gear stick. he finally finds reverse but turns

to find a hostile group of PEDESTRIANS herded tightly together

behind the car, leaving Truman with nowhere left to go.

The car door is suddenly jerked open and the out-of-breath

PARKING ATTENDANT yanks Truman from the driver's seat.

The Attendant looks into Truman's terrified eyes.  They get

the better of him.

The Attendant shoves Truman's briefcase into his arms and

brushes him aside.  As he departs, Truman notices that the

traffic jam in the street and the mysterious crowd of

pedestrians has dissolved.

EXT.  BUS DEPOT.  DAY.

Row after row of parked buses.  TRUMAN and MARLON exit an

administration office.  Instead of heading for the exit, Truman

begins marching down the first row of buses, inspecting the

number painted on the rear of each one.

Marlon stops walking.  Truman continues his inspection.  Seeing

there is no reasoning with him, Marlon hurries to catch him up.

Truman has no answer.  We see an aerial shot of Truman and

Marlon on a television screen, continuing to check the rows of

buses, Marlon still marveling at Truman's obstinance.  They

have come to the last bus in the final row.  Truman hangs his

head.  The offending bus is not amongst them.  He makes towards

the exit without comment and Marlon follows.

Unseen by the pair, we focus on the ID number on one of the

buses they have previously checked - "2400".  A single drip of

black paint trickles off the last freshly painted digit.

EXT.  MANHATTAN STREET.  DAY.

TRUMAN and MARLON, drinking beer, sit in the rear doorway of

Marion's delivery van, wholesale-sized boxes of candy stacked

behind them.

Truman is surprised Marlon remembered.  Marlon nods to the

sidewalk.

Truman looks down at his feet.  A small, tell-tale pile of sand

has poured out of his tight trouser cuff.

We see a flashback in Truman's head of the earlier scene in the

Lower Manhattan street.  It confirms that the old woman's DOG

was abandoned on the sidewalk.

INT.  TRUMAN'S MOTHER'S APARTMENT, QUEENS.  DAY.

TRUMAN stands in the corridor of his mother's cramped, fussy.

doilyed apartment with his older sister, RAQUEL, late forties,

prematurely grey.  Through a doorway, the figure of his MOTHER

is visible asleep in bed, despite the early hour.  Truman and

Raquel speak in hushed tones to avoid waking her.

Raquel fixes Truman with a contemptuous stare.

Truman meets her unforgiving eyes.  Without another word, he

walks out of the apartment.

Truman safely departed, the figure in the bed, rolls out.

CHRISTOF, fully clothed, relishing the danger of being so close

to Truman without being detected.  Raquel's demeanor immediately

changes, all trace of bitterness gone from her face, she appears

younger, posture more upright, almost a different person.

Christof hugs Raquel.

INT.  DRESSING ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

A cavernous dressing room contains a long row of identical

mirrored make-up tables.  At the only occupied table, Truman's

contrite father, KIRK, is having what's left of his homeless

disguise cleaned from his face by a MAKE-UP ARTIST under the

watchful eye of two DARK-SUITED BODYGUARDS.

From a mezzanine floor out of Kirk's vision, CHRISTOF and CHLOE

also take in the proceedings.  Behind their heads, a monitor

shows a surveillance picture of an agitated TRUMAN sitting in

his car, trapped in rush-hour traffic.

Christof nods indifferently, knowing the damage is already done.

Christof turns and enters an office adjacent to the balcony,

containing a state-of-the-art monitor and VCR.  Chloe follows.

Christof plays the cued recording without comment.  We focus on

the screen.

EXT.  LONG ISLAND SOUND.  DAY, TWENTY-SEVEN YEARS EARLIER.

A younger-looking CHRISTOF sits in a motorboat in the calm

water of Long Island Sound.  Truman's father, KIRK, twenty-seven

years younger and a DARK HAIRED BOY, Truman's age at the time,

acting as a stand-in, sit in the stern of a sailing dinghy.

Two SCUBA DIVERS in the ocean.

Kirk rehearses turning the tiller in the instructed direction.

To simulate the wave, one of the divers puts his full weight on

the side of the dinghy to capsize it.  Kirk and the boy are

tossed into the water.  While the boy immediately bobs to the

surface in his life jacket, Kirk fails to surface.  After a long

moment, he reappears with the second diver some distance away.

now wearing a spare aqualung.

Kirk is staring at Truman's stand-in, clinging to the upturned

boat.  Kirk's expression suggests he is not a totally willing

participant in the masquerade.

The present-day Christof freezes the monitor on Kirk's uncertain

face.

INT.  TRUMAN'S GARAGE.  DUSK.

A cluttered garage, dimly lit by a single work lamp.  TRUMAN

looks over his shoulder before turning his attention to a dusty

trunk under a canvas sheet.  The trunk is fastened with a

combination lock.  He deftly dials the correct combination and

opens the lid.

Inside, mementoes from his youth.  A "HOW TO SAIL" book, a

stack of "GREAT EXFLORERS" magazines, and beneath it all, a

garment in a drycleaning bag.  Truman carefully lifts up the

plastic to reveal a schoolgirl's lavender cardigan decorated

with pearl beading.  He puts the cardigan to his nose and

breathes deeply.

Footsteps.  Truman hastily drops the cardigan in the trunk and

shuts the lid.  MERYL, standing close behind.

Meryl doesn't look like she buys it.

Meryl nods, not at all convinced.  After an uncomfortable

pause, she turns and heads back to the house.

EXT.  CAR WASH.  DUSK.

TRUMAN ruefully examines the broken car aerial on his freshly

washed Oldsmobile.  In the background is the warning sign he

has just ignored, "CLOSE WINDOWS, LOWER AERIALS".

Truman removes the metal coathanger from beneath the lavender

cardigan and forces the bent wire into what's left of the

severed aerial.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DUSK.

TRUMAN motors down a busy shopping street, crowded on both sides

with PEDESTRIANS.  As he drives, he tests his car radio.

Adjusting the tuner knob, he finds a station.

Truman glances up at the street signs along his route and finds

that they coincide exactly with the streets quoted on the radio.

Distracted, he almost bowls over an OLD LADY on a crosswalk.

Truman readjusts the radio as it starts to fade out. Suddenly

there is a piercing blast of feedback.  He looks up and, as far

as the eye can see, every PEDESTRIAN, MOTORIST and SHOPKEEPER

along the street suddenly winces in pain and holds their right

ear at exactly the same moment.

Truman tries to pick up the channel once again but without

success.

EXT.  DRUG STORE.  DUSK.

Still shaken by his experience with the radio, TRUMAN exits

a Drug Store with a small, brown paper bag.  Out of the corner

of his eye he catches a MALE BYSTANDER still checking his right

ear with his finger.  He goes to say something to the by-stander

but thinks better of it.

EXT.  REDLIGHT DISTRICT, QUEENS.  NIGHT.

HOOKERS in white heels and spray-on skirts display their wares.

TRUMAN cruises slowly past in his Oldsmobile, the expression of

the prostitutes turning from seductive to contemptuous as each

is by-passed.

Suddenly Truman pulls sharply into the curb beside a leggy,

prostitute, VERONICA, wearing a platinum blonde wig.  She is in

deep discussion with a fellow WORKING GIRL.  Veronica recognizes

the car and instantly bends down to the open passenger window.

Veronica opens the door and folds herself into the passenger

seat.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  NIGHT.

VERONICA knows the form.  As TRUMAN pulls away from the curb,

she is already removing the lavender cardigan from the

drycleaning bag on the back seat.  She drapes the cardigan

around her shoulders.

Truman passes her the brown paper bag without reply.  Veronica

removes a bottle of perfume and proceeds to liberally apply it.

INT.  FLUSHING MEADOW PARK.  NIGHT.

From a vantage point in a disused tower high above the park.

CHRISTOF and CHLOE watch as Truman's Oldsmobile enters the park

grounds and comes to a stop near the large metal framed globe,

the Unisphere.  Both Christof and Chloe wear earpieces, a

miniature television propped at their feet shows a close-up

picture of TRUMAN and VERONICA inside the car.

Christof, totally unfazed, regards his zealous young assistant

with affection and even a mild amusement.

TRUMAN kills the lights and he and VERONICA exit the car

unaware that they are being observed.

We focus on Truman and Veronica as they take a seat at the edge

of the pool surrounding the great steel globe.

Truman nods his agreement and forks over several bills.

Veronica deposits the money in her purse and perches herself as

modestly as possible on the edge of the fountain.

When she is ready, Truman tenderly places his arm around her

shoulder.  Veronica responds, hesitantly, becoming immersed in

her role.  She reaches out her own hand and rests it on the

nape of his neck.  Slowly both heads drift together, but stop

just short of their lips meeting, agonizingly close.  So close

they can feel each other's breath, barely a sliver of daylight

separating them.  Then finally their lips touch in the most

gentle of caresses.

They hold the kiss for another long moment and then

simultaneously break.  As they look into each other's eyes,

Truman goes to say something but Veronica hushes him by placing

a finger to his lips.  Then abruptly she moves out of frame, the

cardigan falling from around her shoulders in her haste.

From Truman's POV we focus on the cardigan on the pavement,

triggering a flashback in his head.

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR.  DAY, SEVENTEEN YEARS EARLIER.

As with Truman's previous flashbacks, this scene appears to be

playing on a television screen.  However, on this occasion it is

also accompanied by CHRISTOF's comments from his perch in the

tower above the park.

A SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN, carrying a stack of books, spies

LAUREN, sixteen going on thirty-five, wearing the lavender,

beaded cardigan at her open locker.  She is entertaining two

GIRLFRIENDS with what appears to be a lewd tale.

Truman, obviously terrified, musters the nerve to approach the

lockers.  The three girls look up, surprised by the

interruption.

Lauren is unsure whether or not to follow her friends.

Her name is carefully written in blue ink on the covers of her

text books.

Lauren smiles despite herself.

Lauren looks around the deserted school corridor.

Truman hesitates.

THE PICTURE ON THE TELEVISION SCREEN SUDDENLY FAST-FORWARDS AT

SUCH SPEED IT BECOMES A BLUR - THEN RETURNS TO NORMAL SPEED.

EXT.  FLUSHING MEADOW PARK.  DUSK.

The SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN and LAUREN enter the park near the

Unisphere.  The park is deserted on a hot June afternoon.

Truman and Lauren run up to the ledge of the pool surrounding

the steel sculpture.

They both stare down at the inviting water.  Lauren suddenly

throws off her cardigan and jumps into the pool without another

thought.  She comes splashing to the surface.  Truman stares

down, transfixed hy the shimmering water.

Lauren suddenly stops splashing.

She quickly climbs out of the pool, dripping wet.

Lauren wrings out her dress.

Lauren starts walking away.

Truman runs after Lauren and holds her by the arms, forcing

her to face him.

Truman looks into her eyes and believes her.

THE PICTURE FAST-FORWARDS AGAIN AT HIGH SPEED FOR A MOMENT AND

RETURNS TO NORMAL.

TRUMAN and SYLVIA (as she is now called throughout the remainder

of the movie) sit on the ledge of the pool - the same spot as

Truman and the hooker, Veronica, seventeen years later.  As we

have just seen imitated, Sylvia and Truman kiss with great

delicacy.  Truman goes to say something but she covers his lips

with her finger.

Truman nods, unsure of the commitment he is making.

Suddenly a 1962 Plymouth roars towards the fountain out of

nowhere.

The car skids to a stop and a large MAN, 40ish, with a shock of

dark hair jumps from the car.  The man yanks the frightened

Sylvia to her feet causing her cardigan to fall to the ground.

Truman jumps up.

The man backhands Sylvia roughly across the face and bundles

her into his car.  Truman rushes at the man.

The man easily fends Truman off, knocking him to the ground.

He slams shut the passenger door of the Plymouth.

Truman is suddenly struck dumb, the doubts start crowding back

into his head.

The Plymouth roars away.  Truman stares after it and then

turns back to the cardigan left on the ground.

EXT.  FLUSHING MEADOW.  DUSK, PRESENT DAY.

VERONICA'S head suddenly appears back in frame beside TRUMAN.

Truman picks up the cardigan.  They return to the car.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  NIGHT.

TRUMAN drives VERONICA back to her turf.  She smokes a

cigarette, flicking ash out of the window.

Truman regards his companion in a new light.  He comes to a stop

at the corner where he picked her up.

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL CORRIDOR.  DAY, SEVENTEEN YEARS EARLIER.

Another televised flashback.  The SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN

stands reflectively beside Sylvia's open and vacated locker.

ANOTHER SHORT BURST OF FAST-FORWARD AND THEN THE PICTURE RETURNS

TO NORMAL SPEED.

INT.  HIGH SCHOOL LIBRARY.  DAY

In a secluded corner of the library the SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD

TRUMAN sits at a table surrounded by a stack of glossy women's

magazines.  By tearing out individual facial features - eyes.

nose, mouth, ears, chin, hair - from photographs of YOUNG WOMEN

in the magazine's advertisements, Truman has been able to

improvise a composite picture of Sylvia.

The montage is a passable likeness although Truman is not

completely satisfied with Sylvia's nose.  He toys with

several nose examples before reluctantly settling for one.

He stares wistfully at the completed picture.

ANOTHER BURST OF FAST-FORWARD

INT.  SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  DAY.

SEVENTEEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN enters the front door.  His older

sister, RAQUEL, has been awaiting his arrival.

Truman's face falls.  As he enters the bedroom where his ill

MOTHER lies gazing at the ceiling, we focus on his EXCHANGE

STUDENT APPLICATION that he has inadvertently crushed in his

hands.

THE FLASHBACK SEQUENCE OVER, WE RETURN TO THE PRESENT TIME WITH

THE IMAGE NO LONGER APPEARING ON A TELEVISION SCREEN.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  NIGHT

TRUMAN turns into his street but stops several houses short of

his own driveway and kills the car's engine.  In the light of a

streetlamp, Truman opens his briefcase and removes the framed

photograph of his wife, MERYL.  But he turns his wife's face

away from him and opens the clasps on the back of the frame.

Removing the backing, he exposes the composite picture of SYLVIA

we witnessed in the flashback of his youth, worn and faded by

the years.  With the frame on his lap, Truman retrieves a

handful of paper fragments from his jacket.  Noses.  He tests

the likeness of each one in turn.  Unsatisfied that any of the

new noses is an improvement, Truman tosses them out of his car

window.  We watch the paper fragments blowing in the breeze as

Truman's car proceeds down the street and into his driveway.

EXT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DAY.

Close up on a nose.  We pull back to reveal that the nose

belongs to SYLVIA, seventeen years older than Truman's composite

picture - slimmer in the face, wearing her hair shorter.

She is standing at the water's edge on a long, deserted

windswept beach, several sailing dinghys pulled up beyond the

high-water line.  In the background, a solitary, white

beachfront house - an other-worldliness to the idyllic scene.

Looking up into the sky, Sylvia's attention is drawn to a piece

of paper carried on the ocean breeze.  The paper catches on the

mast of one of the sailing dinghys.  A page from a newspaper,

carrying a photograph of TRUMAN in the street where he

encountered his father.  Sylvia retrieves the page.  The

article's headline reads, "TRUMAN'S FATE IN DOUBT".

Spying a MAN, late-thirties, kindly face, riding up to the beach

house on an old bicycle, Sylvia secrets the page under her

sweater.  The man waves cheerfully as he comes to join her on

the sand.  Sylvia waves cheerfully back.

INT.  BAR SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

In a quiet bar, a WAITRESS patiently explains her viewpoint to

the BARMAN.  A PATRON on a barstool, eavesdrops.

EXT.  TRAIN STATION PARKING LOT.  MORNING.

TRUMAN sits in his car, about to lace his coffee.  From inside

the adjacent Elementary School gymnasium, he hears the familiar

excited squeals and shouts of SCHOOL CHILDREN.  Truman suddenly

throws aside his miniature of Jack Daniels and sprints across

the parking lot and into the school.

INT.  UTOPIA ELEMENTARY SCHOOL.  MORNING.

TRUMAN slams through the front doors into the reception area.

It is deserted, no one stationed at the administration desk, the

corridors empty.  He runs down a vacant corridor, pushing open

classroom doors as he goes.  They are all unoccupied.

Finally, he stands outside the gymnasium.  The childrens'

voices can still be heard.  Truman takes a deep breath and

bursts through the double doors.

The room is empty save for a large reel-to-reel tape recorder

in the middle of the basketball court playing a continuous tape

of childrens' voices.  The recorder is attached to speakers on

tall stands facing the ventilation ducts.  Truman stares at the

machine in disbelief.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN STREET.  MORNING.

TRUMAN exits the subway, still lost in thought.  He stops at

the newstand and picks up a copy of Vanity Fair to resume his

ritual search but his heart is not in it.

He starts his trek to work, pausing to stare at his reflection

in the mirrored building, hoping that the Homeless Man will

appear at his side once again.  But no one joins him.

However, as Truman continues to stare, it is the building itself

that takes his interest.  An imposing forty-story office

building, a black, sheer mirrored box clad in the kind of

reflective glass that shields its occupants from the world, a

building Truman passes every day.

As usual, a steady stream of EMPLOYEES and VISITORS enter and

exit the building's high-ceilinged lobby past an intimidating

security desk manned by two UNIFORMED GUARDS.  Beyond security

are banks of elevators, ferrying executives, clerical staff and

delivery personnel to and from their floors of business.

Truman abruptly enters the building.  He strides confidently

past the security desk trying to look as if he belongs.

The second Security Guard is rising from his seat to block

Truman's path to the elevators but Truman reads his mind

and makes a dash for it.

He slips into an elevator just as the doors are closing,

defeating the flailing arm of the pursuing guard.  A WOMAN

EXECUTIVE in the elevator looks in horror at Truman.  The cause

of her concern becomes all too apparent.  Looking beyond the

woman, Truman discovers that there is no back to the elevator

car.

The elevator is simply an opening into the body of the building.

Truman pushes past the Woman to be confronted with the fact that

the entire office block is nothing but a giant, empty shell with

no floors above the ground floor.

The PEOPLE Truman has just witnessed entering the other

elevators are milling around a refreshment table, sitting on

folding chairs, changing their clothes behind temporary

curtained cubicles or lining up to re-enter the bogus elevator

cars.  Gradually, they all turn to gape at Truman, who in turn

stares back, appalled.

The Security Guards suddenly appear at Truman's side and take

him by the arm.

The Guards frog-march Truman out of the huge facade towards an

Emergency Exit.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN STREET.  DAY.

TRUMAN continues to struggle as the GUARDS usher him to the

street.

Truman sees there is no point in arguing further.  His

shouts are attracting the interest of PASSERS-BY.  A thought

occurs to him.

He starts to run along the street, suddenly entering another

building at random.  An office block with a bank on the ground

floor.  As he skirts the bank, he feels the eyes of the BANK

STAFF and CUSTOMERS on him.  Is he so suspicious-looking or

were they expecting him?

Truman rushes to the elevators.  The lights above the doors

show all the elevators on upper floors.  Frantic pressing

of the elevator button gets no response.  Truman heads for the

stairs but is intercepted by a BANK OFFICIAL who bars his way.

Truman backs away out of the office and continues to run down

the streets of Lower Manhattan's financial district.  Every

building he encounters seems to have a SECURITY GUARD

anticipating his arrival or a building OFFICIAL hanging a CLOSED

FOR BUSINESS sign on the front door.

He feels the eyes of PEDESTRIANS.  Is he simply drawing

attention to himself by his behavior?  Truman wheels around,

trying to make eye contact with passers-by.  They shy away.

Truman stops still, his head reeling.

INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY.  DAY.

From the office window on the twelfth floor, TRUMAN can observe

the glass building down the street.  He ponders the black,

mirrored box.  LAWRENCE appears at his side.

Truman exits with the report.  After waiting only a matter of

seconds for an elevator, he impatiently enters the stairwell.

As soon as he disappears from sight, a grim CHRISTOF emerges

from a nearby office, shadowed as always by CHLOE.   They

approach Lawrence with the familiarity of business associates.

Christof nods.  Chloe opens a flip-phone to make a call.

INT.  INSURANCE CO. - STAIRWELL.  DAY.

An out-of-breath TRUMAN arrives on the second floor landing of

the stairwell to find two burly MOVERS blocking his path

with a large office desk they are attempting to transport.

Truman considers retracing his steps, then without warning

clambers over the mahogany barrier.

INT.  SUBWAY.  DAY.

TRUMAN paces impatiently on an empty subway platform with other

frustrated passengers.  He loses patience and suddenly

turns and runs up the stairs.

INT.  TAXI CAB.  DAY.

TRUMAN sits seething in a traffic jam that exists for no

apparent reason.

EXT.  A CHARRED APARTMENT BUILDING ON THE UPPER WEST SIDE.  DAY.

TRUMAN exits his taxi and takes in the scene.  A partially

burnt building, waterlogged, still faintly smoldering.  Truman

checks the address on his file.  A small, serious-looking BOY

straddles his bicycle on the sidewalk.

The boy is wise well beyond his years.  Truman fixes him with a

glare.

The boy casually rides away.

EXT.  CITY PARK.  DAY.

TRUMAN wanders aimlessly through a city park, observing.  We

sense,

A group of YOUTHS play a pick-up game of basketball.  A YOUNG

WOMAN walks a pair of AFGHAN HOUNDS.  An OLD MAN answers the

incessant questions of his GRANDCHILD.  Nothing appears amiss.

EXT.  TIMES SQUARE.  DAY.

TRUMAN stands amidst a throng of TOURISTS and COMMUTERS marooned

on Times Square.  Mesmerized by the two fast-moving rivers of

vehicles flowing through the intersection.

Truman stares down at the street, contemplating stepping out

into the traffic.  However as his foot is poised, the stream

of cars that passed so close by seconds earlier, now appear to

be giving him a wider berth.  He steps off the sidewalk and.

to an acompaniment of car horns, begins to wander back and forth

without fear through the traffic, confident that each vehicle

will take evasive action.

Safely on the other side of the street, he stands in front of

the window of an electronics store.  He watches a local TV

news show covering the Santa Maria replica moored near Pier 13.

However Truman is forced to look away when he glimpses his own

face on another TV taking a feed from a camcorder aimed out the

store window.  He shudders at his video reflection.

INT.  DIMLY-LIT ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

TRUMAN'S face stares out from a televison monitor.  We slowly

pull back to reveal that other smaller monitors surround the

first until we find ourselves staring at a video wall in a room

the size of a football field.

The curved bank of monitors, suspended by cables from the

ceiling, gives the appearance of a giant patch-work mobile.

Investigating the screens we discover surveillance pictures from

all over New York City, covering every facet of Truman's life.

Camera angles from the interior of Truman's house, his backyard,

car, subway station, office, the deli he frequents, the seashore

to which he is drawn, the park he visits with Veronica, the

abandoned freeway where he golfs with Marlon, many of the

locations strangely devoid of people.

Beneath the video wall is a state-of-the-art mixing desk, its

illuminated buttons glowing brightly in the gloom.  Facing the

desk, several OPERATORS in high-backed, high-tech swivel chairs,

wearing the slimmest of headsets.  SIMEON, a meticulous young

man with a penetrating gaze, sits directly in front of the

largest of the monitors, co-ordinating camera angles.

CHRISTOF stands over Simeon's shoulder, staring intently at the

live picture of Truman now seated at a streetside cafe,

continuing to inspect his surroundings.  CHLOE hovers in the

background.

There is an uncomfortable silence in the control room as the

production crew feel themselves under scrutiny for the first

time.  Christof leans forward and talks soothingly into a

microphone on the control panel.

EXT.  STREETSIDE CAFE, LITTLE ITALY.  DAY.

TRUMAN sits alone at the table, still looking for a false move.

A DELIVERY MAN unloads boxes from the back of his truck and

carries them into a Restaurant Supply store.  Further down the

street CONSTRUCTION WORKERS take their time tending to an

electrical repair in an exposed manhole.  A POSTAL WORKER does

his rounds.  An OLD WOMAN struggles with two heavy shopping

bags.  Everybody appears natural, places to go.

Truman turns his attention to a group of ITALIAN-LOOKING MEN

at the only other occupied table at the cafe.  We see extreme

close-ups as Truman scans the men's faces for any sign of

phoniness.  They are talking loudly, making suggestive comments

to the WAITRESS and generally showing off like schoolboys.

Their behavior passes the test, all seems genuine.

Truman idly regards his three-stone wedding ring with which he

has been fidgeting.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

The on-air monitor shows TRUMAN from the ring's POV, revealing

that the small center diamond contains a miniature, hidden

camera.  Truman suspects nothing.

He looks up to find two well-to-do 3OGGERS, out for a lunchtime

run, making their way down the street towards the cafe.  Truman

happens to glance at the sneakers of one of the joggers.  He

springs to his feet and blocks the joggers' path.

Unseen by Christof, his Assistant Director, Simeon takes a

moment of pleasure from the older man's distress.

EXT.  STREETSIDE CAFE, LITTLE ITALY.  DAY.

Truman blocks the man a second time.

An almost subliminal flashback appears in Truman's head

confirming that the JOGGER and the HOMELESS MAN in the

wheelchair two days earlier are one and the same.

The second jogger pushes Truman back against the cafe table

causing him to stumble.

EXT.  WAREHOUSE - MARLON'S WORK.  DAY.

MARLON is loading boxes of candy into the back of his van.

TRUMAN hurries up to him.

Marlon scoffs at the suggestion then realizes Truman isn't

joking.

Marlon shuts his van and gets in.  Truman enters the

passenger side.

INT.  CONFERENCE ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF is in deep conversation with two executives.  MOSES, a

contemporary of Christof but more jaded and debauched-looking

and ROMAN, a fresh-faced, younger man.  CHLOE hovers in the

background.  A monitor, suspended from the ceiling shows a

surveillance shot of TRUMAN and MARLON pulling into a beach

parking lot in Marlon's van.

The glass conference room looks out onto the vast control

facility where SIMEON continues to call the shots, all too aware

of the closed-door discussion taking place in the background.

Roman paces, agitated, unimpressed.  Moses, mnore respectful.

Too much for Christof.  He wheels on the young man.

Roman is stung into silence.

Reluctantly Roman and Chloe exit and join Simeon at the video

wall.

EXT.  LONG ISLAND BEACH.  DAY.

TRUMAN runs down the beach towards the cliff he attempted to

scale as a seven-year-old boy.

EXT.  CLIFFTOP.  DAY.

TRUMAN sits on the clifftop, staring out at the view his father

had been so desperate for him not to see twenty-seven years

earlier.  However the deserted bay beyond is exactly as his

father described - almost identical to its neighbor.  MARLON,

laboring, crests the rise and joins his friend on the clifftop.

We see a quick flashback of SEVEN-YEAR-OLD TRUMAN on the cliff-

face twenty-seven years earlier.

Marlon shrugs, unimpressed.

Marlon remains unconvinced.

Marlon looks skeptically at Truman.  He hasn't had that feeling.

Now Marlon is

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DUSK.

The comfortably furnished room of a writer.  Walls lined with

books.  Desk overlooking the sea, strewn with notes, photos and

other reference material.  Sylvia's name on the spine of several

published volumes.  Pages of unfinished manuscript, handwritten

in blue ink.

SYLVIA stands at a bookcase, looking for inspiration.  As she

pulls out a book, a magazine falls to the floor.  Truman's

missing copy of Time Magazine.  His face on the cover with the

headline,

Sylvia retrieves the magazine.  In front of a nearby mirror, she

holds Truman's photographed face next to her own, for a moment

imagining them together.  Then, catching herself, she quickly

lowers the magazine, left alone with her own reflection.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

We see TRUMAN's disturbed face reflected in the screen of his

television set, montaged over that of ROBIN LEACH, host of

"Lifestyles Of The Rich And Famous".  MERYL, wearing her robe,

head against Truman's chest, sips from a bottle of beer.

INT.  DINING ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF eats a sumptuous meal in an ornate private dining

room with an elegant WOMAN, thirty years his junior.  Playing

silently on a monitor on an antique side table is a surveillance

shot of TRUMAN and MERYL slumped in front of their television.

CHLOE, enters the room and nods an apology to Christof's dinner

companion - a woman her own age.  Christof's companion shrugs

resignedly.  Christof registers Chloe's thinly disguised

resentment, enjoying the rivalry.

Chloe inserts a cassette tape into a nearby VCR.  Christof

wipes his mouth with his napkin and picks up his wine glass as

he gives the television his full attention.  A commercial for

"GLOBAL TRAVEL" begins to play.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

TRUMAN continues to watch "Lifestyles" restlessly.  However, as

he goes to get up from the sofa, MERYL starts to slide down his

chest towards his lap.

The program cuts to a commercial break.  The commercial

is for "Global Travel".

Truman perks up at the commercial while Meryl's attention is

elsewhere.

Truman exits the living room.  However, on his way to the

bathroom he hesitates at the kitchen table.  He surreptitiously

lifts the platic-coated plaid tablecloth to reveal numerous

bills laid out flat beneath it to keep the stash hidden.

INT.  CHRISTOF'S BEDROOM.  DAWN.

CHLOE pulls back long, white silk drapes to reveal a spectacular

view overlooking the Hollywood Hills.  CHRISTOF rouses from his

enormous round bed.  His DINNER COMPANION also stirs, waving

coyly to Chloe as she modestly covers herself, only mildly

perturbed by the intrusion.  Chloe switches on the television

set in the extravagent bedroom.  Playing on the set are TRUMAN

and MERYL still fast asleep in their own bed.

Chloe exits and Christof climbs out of bed.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  MORNING.

MERYL emerges from the bathroom, ready for work, surprised to

find TRUMAN sitting at the kitchen table.

Truman's eyes widen.  We see a quick flashback in Truman's head

of the two YOUTHS assaulting the WOMAN on his train.

Meryl gives him an affectionate kiss and exits the back door.

Truman waits for the sound of Meryl's car to disappear down the

road and exits himself.

INT.  COURT BUILDING.  MORNING.

TRUMAN enters the courtroom building.  A crush of DEFENDENTS,

FAMILIES, ATTORNEYS and POLICE OFFICERS.  Truman goes to enter

a courtroom but a SECURITY GUARD blocks his path.

Before the guard can move him on. Truman sneaks a look at

proceedings through the courtroom door window.

He recognizes the two YOUTHS sitting at the defendent's table.

A PROSECUTOR is on his feet, addressing the JURY.  MERYL is

working attentively at her stenotype machine, her fingers

rapidly pressing the keys.  However, Truman notices a glaring

omission.  There is no paper emerging from Meryl's machine.  The

roll of paper tape sits on the floor beside her chair leg.

INT.  TRAVEL AGENCY.  DAY.

The EMPLOYEES and CUSTOMERS inside GLOBAL TRAVEL are all doing

a last-minute primp, fixing their hair and checking their

clothes.  Suddenly, in unison, they take their positions and

begin working.  As TRUMAN enters GLOBAL TRAVEL, one CUSTOMER

looks up a fraction too quickly, anticipating his arrival.

Truman takes a seat at the only unoccupied desk, opposite a

female TRAVEL AGENT.  Feeling uneasy about a surveillance camera

in the corner of the room, he nervously obscures his face with

his hand.

Truman pulls out a wad of money from his pocket and several

rolls of quarters from Marlon's vending machines.  The agent

looks askance at the pile of cash.

The travel agent ignores the question and prints the ticket.

EXT.  SYDNEY, AUSTRALIA.  DAY.

CHRISTOF stands with a PRODUCTION MANAGER, mid-thirties, on the

forecourt of the Sydney Opera House, its sail-like roofs soaring

above them.  Framing the background, the coathanger-shaped

Sydney Harbor Bridge.

Christof gives a grudgingly complimentary nod.

Christof looks skyward at the cottonwool clouds above the

harbor.

Christof gives another grudging nod of approval.  The Production

Manager is beckoned by a group of CONSTRUCTION WORKERS who are

putting the finishing touches to a corner of the Opera House.

CHLOE drifts to Christof's side, a Watchman TV in her hand.

Christof glances at the TV screen in her hand, showing TRUMAN

sitting in his office gazing at his composite picture of SYLVIA.

INT.  INSURANCE COMPANY.  DAY.

Close up on typewriting appearing on a page.

TRUMAN gets up from the typewriter in mid-word and strolls to a

fellow AGENT's desk.

Truman finds the appropriate page in the dictionary and gazes at

the entry for a long moment.  He looks up, staring into the

middle distance.  His eyes widen as something clicks in his

mind.  Suddenly LAWRENCE snatches the dictionary from his hand.

The AGENTS in the other cubicles turn in their direction.

Noting two colleagues exchanging a look, he pulls the computer

off the desk to get their attention.  It lands on the floor with

an expensive crash.

Truman picks up the framed photograph from his desk, containing

SYLVIA's hidden likeness.  Suddenly he wheels on Lawrence,

pinning him to a cubicle wall.

We see Truman's manic face from the sprinkler head's POV.

Truman stomps off down the corridor, other Insurance Agents

giving him a wide berth.  He shoves computers, desk lamps and

pot holders off desks as he goes.

EXT.  MANHATTAN STREET.  DAY.

TRUMAN steps out of the office, suddenly able to breathe

again, pleased to be outdoors despite the gloomy sky overhead.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

CHRISTOF is once again standing at the picture window in the

dimly-lit control room where we first encountered him.  Behind

him, the fronds of the palm tree sway in a gentle breeze.  The

sky, a cloudless, cobalt blue in sharp contrast to the overcast

day in New York City.

SIMEON, co-ordinating camera angles, sits in front of the

largest of the monitors that shows a live picture of TRUMAN

stuck in his car in gridlock.

CHLOE's attention is focused on a subsidiary monitor displaying

a freeze frame of TRUMAN reading the dictionary a few minutes

earlier.

Christof turns his back on the screen and stares out the window.

We focus on an enhanced picture of the dictionary's text.

EXT.  SUBURBAN STREET IN QUEENS.  DAY.

TRUMAN drives erratically down a quiet suburban street.

On the sidewalk up ahead, he spies a YOUNG MOTHER pushing an

INFANT in a baby carriage.

Truman suddenly swerves sharply and jumps the curb in front

of the mother and child, the car straddling the sidewalk.  He

has the driver's door open almost before the Oldsmobile has come

to a halt.  Truman dashes from the car and plucks the infant

from the carriage while the mother stands rooted to the spot.

The startled infant immediately begins to wail as Truman holds

the crying bundle in both hands above his head.

The young mother, frozen with fright, does not reply.

The commotion has attracted the attention of an OLD MAN across

the street, watering his garden.  He drops his hose and hurries

towards the fracas.  Halfway across the street, the old man

stops in his tracks as he sees the baby, perilously poised in

the air.

Truman lifts the screaming baby as far above his head as he can,

his arms shaking, fighting the urge to dash the fragile innocent

to the concrete.  We see a view of the scene from the POV of a

streetlight.  The young mother, recognizing Truman's

seriousness, opens her mouth to speak but no sound comes.

The anguish in his voice convinces us that Truman is truly on

the brink.  The young woman now has tears rolling down her

cheeks.  She is at a loss, powerless.

The young woman mumbles but is unable to supply the name.

Truman, arms shaking, face red with rage, realizes he can't go

through with it.  With everything he has, he gathers himself.

After what seems like an age, he ever so slowly lowers the

child into the safety of the mother's outstretched arms.

Truman shudders at the sound of his name and backs away from the

young woman, as if it is she who now represents the threat.

He jumps into his car and slams it into gear, driving over the

sidewalk and back onto the street.  The young woman and the old

man stare after Truman's car as it roars away.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DAY.

As TRUMAN drives, he stares, paranoid, at seemingly innocuous

features in his Oldsmobile - his rearview mirror, steering wheel

insignia, speedometer, airconditioning ducts - and peers up at

the streetlamps lining the roadway.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DAY.

A dozen-or-so of SYLVIA'S FRIENDS, including the MAN we have

seen before, sit around a table on the balcony in the afternoon

sun, talking animatedly.  A TEN-YEAR-OLD SON of one of the

guests has strayed into the living room and switched on the

television set hidden away in an antique bureau.

SYLVIA. emerging from the kitchen, is taken aback by what she

sees playing on the screen.  The MAN on the balcony catches

her look as she swiftly switches off the TV.  She gently takes

the child's hand and leads him outside.

EXT.  TRUMAN'S BACKYARD.  DAY.

TRUMAN, staring at the freeway from the bottom of the garden.

doesn't bother to look up as MERYL approaches.

Meryl looks idly over the fence at the approaching car.

Finally a Suburu station wagon motors by.  Meryl is unimpressed.

Truman turns his back on the Expressway to continue his game.

Meryl doesn't wish to participate in the game and makes for

the house.  Truman holds her arm, forcing her to watch.  He

turns to check his prediction.  A convoy of cars approaches.

Meryl's attention wavers.  Truman tightens his grip.

Following the VW is a school bus.

Truman is momentarily disappointed.  Meryl seizes her chance

and heads for the house.  Truman follows her inside.

Behind Truman's back, a motorcycle putters by.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  DAY.

MERYL is pouring herself ice tea when TRUMAN enters.

Despite her protests, Truman drags Meryl out the back door

and towards his car.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DAY.

TRUMAN holds MERYL's wrist to stop her exiting the car and

accelerates out of the driveway in reverse without looking.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

All eyes watch the large monitor as surveillance cameras track

Truman's speeding car.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DUSK.

TRUMAN and MERYL are hemmed in by a traffic snarl on the New

Jersey Turnpike.  We observe the Oldsmobile on a television

lens from the POV of a tail-light on the car ahead.

On the side of the road, TWO MOTORISTS, are arguing over a

minor collision.

Without warning, Truman suddenly exits the freeway.  But

his move is anticipated.  At the end of the offramp a pack of

cars suddenly appears.  Other vehicles fill the gap behind.

Truman suddenly veers the Oldsmobile onto the sidewalk.

Truman rejoins the New Jersey Turnpike, heading back towards

Queens, the roadway now relatively free of traffic.

Truman floors the Oldsmobile.  The car flies past the exit for

Route 276.  He continues along the Jersey Turnpike.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

CHRISTOF, CHLOE, SIMEON and the other OPERATORS follow Truman's

progress from a helicopter shot - the Oldsmobile optically

circled to ease identification.  Christof jabs his finger at the

rapidly thinning traffic surrounding Truman's vehicle.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR.  DUSK.

As he speeds erratically, TRUMAN glances at the streets either

side of the freeway, where he discovers a distinct lack of

moving traffic.

Truman abruptly exits the rapidly emptying freeway.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

Simeon nods.  Executives, MOSES and ROMAN have entered the

control room.  They hover nervously in the background.

INT.  TRUMAN'S CAR, WESTCHESTER.  DUSK.

TRUMAN is forced to slow once again behind a line of other cars

at a police roadblock.  At the head of the line, the cars are

being turned around by POLICE OFFICERS, who are also contending

with a swarm of NEWS REPORTERS and TELEVISION CREWS.

Truman slows beside a POLICE OFFICER.

Truman falls in line behind the cars making a U-turn when, all

of a sudden, he guns his car and swerves past the barricade.

EXT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DUSK.

In the twilight sun, SYLVIA'S GUESTS wander up the gravel path,

leading away from the beach house, the younger children carried

in their parents' arms.  Hanging back from the rest of the

group, Sylvia's admirer, wheeling his bicycle, turns back

to the house.  As the MAN is about to lean his bicycle against

the side of the beach house, he looks in a window.

Lit by a blue-glow, SYLVIA sits transfixed by the television

playing in her antique bureau, the screen obscured from our

view.  She is unaware of the man's face at the window.

Recognizing what is playing on the screen, the man regards

Sylvia with a resigned smile.  He mounts the bicycle and rides

back up the path.

EXT.  NUCLEAR POWER PLANT.  DUSK.

Truman's car slides to a stop, blocked by Hazardous Waste

vehicles straddling the roadway leading up to the power plant,

the pursuing police car blocking his retreat.  TRUMAN flees the

car, leaving MERYL in the passenger seat.

Truman bursts past the alien-looking HAZARDOUS WASTE WORKERS in

their protective suits carrying detection instruments.  The

workers give chase in their cumbersome suits, trying to cut off

his path to the power plant.  As he crests a slight rise beyond

the plant, he is finally tackled to the ground.  However,

peering through the long grass, Truman is able to make out the

lights of a cityscape in the distance.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

CHRISTOF, a trace of panic in his eyes, turning to CHLOE.

The reason for Christof's concern becomes all too apparent as

the helicopter passes over the power plant, where the struggling

TRUMAN is being escorted away.  We see an aerial shot from the

helicopter as it emerges directly above the Sydney skyline.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  NIGHT.

MERYL and TRUMAN sit at their kitchen table.  Truman stoic,

tears rolling down Meryl's cheeks.  Truman's airline ticket

torn to shreds on the table in front of them.

Truman's raised voice backs Meryl to her feet.  Truman follows,

getting in her face.

Meryl grabs a kitchen knife from a wooden block to protect

herself.

Truman looks in her eyes and, with surprising swiftness,

grabs her wrist and disarms her.

Truman grabs Meryl by the hair and turns the knife on her.

While pressing the blade to Meryl's throat, Truman starts to

march her around the room, talking to the walls, light

fixtures, a mirror, doorknob, framed picture, blank television.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF and the OTHERS watch the monitors spellbound as TRUMAN

looks directly into one camera lens after another.  ROMAN is the

first to crack.

Christof, never taking his eyes from the monitor, leans into

the microphone.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  NIGHT.

We see an extreme close up of MERYL's ear.  Unheard by TRUMAN,

from her inner car, we hear a familiar voice.

Upon hearing her remark, Truman's eyes widen.  Sensing that she

too is addressing a third person, he jerks her head around to

read her face.

Meryl takes the chance to spin out of his grasp and dashes to

the bedroom but before she can barricade the door, Truman

forces his way inside.  They both tumble onto the waterbed

causing it to rock back and forth.  Gripping Meryl's hair,

Truman throws aside the bed covers.

Truman raises the kitchen knife but instead of stabbing Meryl

begins to slash viciously at the waterbed, opening a large gash.

Truman drops the knife and forces Meryl's head into the gaping

hole in the bed, submerging her head in the tepid water.  She

thrashes her arms wildly trying to free herself.

Truman reluctantly jerks her head back out of the water.

He dunks her head into the water a second time, holding her

head down longer this time.  She continues to struggle.

Suddenly, the front door chimes.  Startled, Truman lets Meryl up

for air.

Meryl spots the kitchen knife within her reach but Truman beats

her to it.  Grabbing the knife by the blade, he slices his hand.

At knifepoint, Truman marches Meryl down the hallway to the

front door.  The doorbell chimes a second and third time, more

insistently.

Truman flinches.  He was so convinced it would be the police.

He takes a step back against the hallway wall.  Before he can

decide what to do, Marlon has opened the unlocked front door

to be confronted with the sight of Truman holding the knife to

Meryl's throat, blood streaming from his own wound.

Marlon locks eyes on Truman.  Sizing up the situation, he slowly

but decisively removes the knife from Truman's hand.  Meryl

wrenches herself free from Truman's now limp grasp, and

collapses into Marlon's arms, sobbing.

EXT.  ABANDONED FREEWAY.  NIGHT.

MARLON and TRUMAN, both nursing bottles of beer, sit on the end

of their abandoned freeway off-ramp.

Truman closes his eyes as he takes in the explanation.

Marlon looks around as if drawing inspiration from somewhere

in the night.

Truman half-smiles at the ribald remark.

Truman nods fondly at the memory.

Truman is slowly coming around.  Marlon's speech from the heart

soothing away his pain.

Truman grins a melancholy grin, nearly all the way back.  We see

a close up of Marlon's ear.  From inside, unheard by Truman,

CHRISTOF dictates Marlon's heartfelt speech.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF leans over a microphone at the mixing desk, feeding the

lines to Marlon, immersed in the role.

Recognizing the importance of the moment, his colleagues stand

around in awe at Christof's spontaneous performance, arguably

superior to Marlon's own delivery.

Truman's head slowly drops in surrender, his doubts draining

away.  Marlon embraces Truman in a bearhug.

Truman looks over his shoulder to the sky where a single star

shines.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

From his chair, CHRISTOF modestly accepts the congratulations of

his COLLEAGUES.  The two executives, MOSES and ROMAN are at the

head of the line, their earlier disagreement suddenly forgotten.

CHLOE gives Christof a warm hug.

MARLON, accepting a towel from a P.A., still in wardrobe,

approaches and kneels beside the arm of Christof's chair.

grasping his hand.

Christof gives Marlon a consoling pat on the shoulder and

Marlon withdraws.

Finally Christof's Assistant Director, SIMEON, approaches and

offers his hand.  Christof hesitates before shaking.  Simeon

returns to the monitors, now showing TRUMAN alone at the dock or

Long Island.  Christof stares out the window to conceal an

expression of quiet vindication.

INT.  A LTVING ROOM SOMEWHERE.  NIGHT.

The two OLD WOMEN we have seen before sit on their sofa

gazing straight ahead.  On the teievision in front of them,

a live picture of TRUMAN - the first time we have seen him

broadcast to a viewer's set.

He is reading a book at his kitchen table, unaware of the

cameras recording him.

The scene alternates between a wide master shot, a medium tight

shot, a close up of Truman's face and two insert shots - one

over the shoulder shot of the page he is reading and one from

another angle showing the book's title, "To The Ends Of The

Earth - The Age Of Exploration".

At one point, a sponsor's border appears on screen, tastefully

framing the "action" with the message, "FOLGERS Coffee - Good To

The Last Drop."  After several seconds, the border disappears.

Suddenly tbe live picture of Truman shrinks into a window on the

screen to accomodate a title sequence that begins to piay around

the edge of the image.  Overlapping scenes from Truman's life

appear in chronological order, from infancy to adolescence and

finally adulthood.  A graphic, "TRUMAN - Total Record Of A Human

Life", appears on screen accompanied by an introductory

narration.

The title sequence is replaced by an INTERVIEWER, mid-fifties,

conservative suit and hair, sitting opposite CHRISTOF in a Larry

King-style interview setting.  Projected in the background is

the live picture of Truman, immersed in his book.

INT.  STUDIO.  NIGHT.

During this segment, we cut to a cross-section of VIEWERS -

the NIGHTWATCHMEN, the two OLD WOMEN on their sofa, the

BARMAN and the WAITRESS - listening to Christof's theories on

their viewing habits.

The Interviewer presses a blinking illuminated button on his

desk's high-tech phone terminal.

The Interviewer presses another line on his terminal.

The Interviewer goes to cut off the call but Christof

holds him back.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  NIGHT.

SYLVIA, finger on the button of the phone where she has cut off

the call, stares at CHRISTOF on her television screen.

It is she who is the Female Caller.  Christof seems to stare

back at her as the talk show continues.

Sylvia shuts out the conversation on the television, focusing on

the window that displays TRUMAN, still buried in his book.

She comes close to the screen, catching his melancholy.  She

has a camera and a white envelope in her hand.  With a look of

resolve, she takes her fountain pen and writes Truman's name

on the envelope in her familiar blue ink.

INT.  MASTER TAPE ROOM.  NIGHT.

Row upon row of digital video cassettes occupy one entire,

cavernous room - "Truman" and a date on the spine of each

cassette.  Suspended from the ceiling, a monitor shows a live

picture of TRUMAN sleeping on the sofa.

Sitting in front of a playback monitor, CHLOE is transfixed by

Truman thirty-four years earlier, a FETUS in his mother's womb.

Chloe tries to conceal her startlement at CHRISTOF's unexpected

entrance.

Christof stares at his assistant, weighing her loyalty.

INT.  OFFICE.  DAY.

The suitably crestfallen TRUMAN stands in front of his boss,

ERROL, sitting behind his ostentaciously large desk.  LAWRENCE

lounges on the guest sofa, enjoying Truman's dressing-down.

INT.  BANK.  DAY.

TRUMAN approaches the bank window.  The teller is the YOUNG

WOMAN whose child Truman attacked in the street.  She takes a

step back at the sight of Truman, apprehensive, the

confrontation fresh in her memory.

Truman glances at the names on the checks in the young woman's

hand, realizing how she was able to identify him in the street.

He begins to apologize profusely.

INT.  TRUMAN'S GARAGE.  DUSK.

TRUMAN enters the garage, carrying Sylvia's sweater.  He

breathes in the scent one last time and reluctantly replaces it

in the trunk.  With a sense of finality, he lowers the lid and

fastens the lock.

EXT.  TRUMAN'S BACKYARD.  DUSK.

TRUMAN emerges from the garage, wheeling his lawnmower,

deliberately averting his eyes from the back of the house.

Staring out of the kitchen window, a tall glass of iced tea in

her hand, MERYL has been anticipating her husband's appearance.

She wears a neckbrace, we sense more as a reminder to Truman

than for any benefit she might derive.

Feeling Meryl's eyes burning into his back, Truman fires up the

mower and heads directly towards the symbolically uncut section

of grass.  We focus on the errant blades of grass as they are

severed by the mower.  The lawn is now uniformly trimmed.

From a mechanical platform above the Expressway, CHRISTOF and

CHLOE watch Truman's final act of defiance laid to rest.

INT.  OFFICE BUILDING, LOWER MANHATTAN.  MORNING.

In an office building high above Manhattan's financial district,

a ROBOTIC MANNEOUIN in a 3-piece suit stands at an upper-story

window mechanically lifting a coffee cup to its mouth.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN STREET.  MORNING.

In the street below, something is different about the rush-hour

traffic.  The PEDESTRIANS are all standing around, no one

walking.  Some are chatting with each other, others primping.

The cars, vans and taxis are also idling.

Camera locations are being checked.  A miniature camera

inserted into the head of a streetlamp, a CAMERA TECHNICIAN

waves his hand in front of an innocent-looking fire hydrant, the

eye of a MDDEL on a bus shelter's cosmetic ad is wiped clean,

the head of a parking meter is replaced, a buttonhole camera is

placed on a BUSINESSMAN's double-breasted jacket by a TECHNICIAN

- we see from the button's POV, a CONTACT LENS CAMERA is

carefully inserted into the eye of Truman's colleague, LAWRENCE,

another TECHNICIAN we observe from the contact's POV.

Finally a surveillance camera on the outside of a bank building

and a TOURIST'S camcorder are positioned.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF is seated at the control desk, directing the morning

session, SIMEON assisting, CHLOE at his shoulder, a buzz of

excitement in the room.

The COUPLE with the stroller are promptly moved further along

the street.

INT.  SUBWAY STATION.  MORNING.

TRUMAN spills out of the subway car with hundreds of other

COMMUTERS.  We hear Christof's off-camera voice, as always

unheard by Truman.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN STREET.  MORNING

At the command, the PEDESTRIANS and VEHICLES begin inoving

normally, TRUMAN exits the subway, suspecting nothing.  He

begins his trek to work, accompanied by the cued rush hour

traffic.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF covers his microphone to deliver an aside to SIMEON,

from whom he has temporarily assumed the role of director.

As predicted, Truman walks by, barely glancing at a newspaper's

banner headline, "NUCLEAR POWER PLANT REOPENED".  Christof scans

the shot options available to him on the video wall.

The large On-Air Monitor cuts to Truman, via the point-of-view

of an approaching PEDESTRIAN.  For an instant, the unaware

Truman looks directly into the lens of the disguised camera.

The monitor cuts to an overhead shot from a streetlamp.  The

camera continues to follow Truman's progress.

TRUMAN enters his office building as a taxi cruises by.

Truman is immediately picked up by a hidden camera inside

the building where he exchanges a half-hearted greeting with an

ancient SECURITY GUARD.

The camera widens the angle.

VIVIEN, an insurance adjuster approaches the elevator button at

the same time as Truman.  However she reaches for it after

Truman has already turned his back.

INT.  INSURANCE OFFICE LOBBY.  DAY.

A second time, TRUMAN's brief encounter with VIVIEN goes like

clockwork.  As instructed, she hammers away at the elevator

button and throws a conspiratorial look to Truman.  The elevator

car duly arrives and Truman's eyes follow Vivien's rear as she

sachets into the lift.  For a moment he appears to glance at a

piece of gaffer tape on the marble floor.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

The monitor cuts to the inside of the elevator, rapidly

filling with co-workers.

Just as the doors are about to close, LAWRENCE oozes in.  He

gives Truman a smug smile.

The elevator doors open and Vivien exits with two co-workers.

Truman doesn't seem to share Lawrence's enthusiasm for the

comely young woman.  He is miles away.

INT.  STUDIO - CONFERENCE ROOM.  DAY.

Assembled around a long oval table for a story confernce are

several principal characters in Truman's life - MERYL, MARLON,

ERROL, TYRONE, RAQUEL, VERONICA and the new actress, VIVIEN,

sitting slightly apart from the rest of the cast.

CHRISTOF takes his place at the head of the table, a large

monitor showing TRUMAN drinking coffee in his cubicle at

American Life plays silently behind Christof's head.

All eyes turn to Meryl.  She looks at the floor.

Meryl receives a sympathetic squeeze of the hand from her co-

star Marlon, now out of wardrobe, wearing an Armani suit.

The rest of the cast nod politely in Vivien's direction.

The cast idly flip through the documents, prominently stamped on

the cover, "NOT TO BE TAKEN ON SET".

The cast snickers.

The cast turn in her direction.  Christof has a second occasion

to question his Assistant's loyalty.

INT.  A BAR SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

The BARMAN, WAITRESS and PATRON we have seen before, observe

TRUMAN on the television above the bar.  The cameras track

Truman's progress, walking along Broadway.  As he ducks into a

sex shop, the threesome at the bar exchange looks.  Inside the

store, Truman appears apprehensive.

On screen, Truman looks through some X-Rated video titles.

Truman bumps into a display of sex paraphenalia, knocking an

item to the floor.

Truman tries to right the display and hurriedly exits the store,

the cameras following his journey as always.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN.  NIGHT

We focus on a list left by Meryl on the refrigerator, several

pages long.  The kitchen itself is a bombsite.  More than the

cliche dishes in the sink - dozens of cardboard boxes stacked

haphazardly on the floor.

INT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

The usually orderly bedroom is also a mess.  Blankets piled in a

heap.  Several large, half-filled cardboard boxes cluttering the

room.  A chair in an odd position near the bed.  Clothes strewn

everywhere.  Hardly an inch of floor space remains uncovered.

TRUMAN is asleep in bed, the damaged waterbed replaced with a

standard mattress.  Although he is completely covered from head

to toe in bedding, the outline of his body is still clearly

visible.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

Close up on the On-Air monitor in the temple of a control

room.  It displays a wide shot of Truman's darkened bedroom

filmed through the green hue of the night vision cameras.

Assistant Producer, SIMEON, and his VIDEO OPERATORS slouch in

their swivel chairs paying scant attention to the screen.

Simeon gives his instructions in a lethargic, metronomic manner.

Operator, eating a doughnut, presses one of the illuminated

buttons on the panel and the camera angle changes to a close

shot of Truman's covered head.  The camera stays on the

blanketed head for a long moment.

Another button is pressed and the angle changes.  A trace of

frustration is evident in the control room.  Recording a

sleeping subject is unrewarding enough without also having to

contend with Truman's recently aquired camera-shyness.

At the far end of the great room, one of the large double

doors opens and CHRISTOF enters, as always accompanied by CHLOE,

carrying a leather-bound folder.  Simeon and the Operators

subtely straighten in their chairs.  Christof pretends not to

notice.  He is staring intently at the On-Air monitor.

Christof watches Truman, a trace of concern in his eyes.

Apparently satisfied, Christof turns to an operator.

Reading off the notes in Chloe's folder, the operator punches

up a batch of camera angles on smaller preview monitors.  They

show a generic-looking Marriott Hotel, devoid of actors.  A

banner in reception reads, "WELCOME AMERICAN LIFE & ACCIDENT".

The Operator looks to Christof for approval and realizes his

producer's attention has wandered.  Christof is staring at the

sleeping figure of Truman on the On-Air monitor.

Christof picks up a spare headset from the panel and puts it to

his ear.

An operator pushes up an audio fader on the panel.  Christof and

his colleagues listen to Truman's steady breathing in their

headphones.  Simeon and the Operators nod, reassured that

nothing is amiss.  Christof is not so easily convinced.

A camera hidden in the room's bedside lamp zooms in to Truman's

prone outline...while the breathing remains steady, the body

does not rise and fall.

Chloe picks up a phone connected to the desk and dials.

The phone on the bedside table, inches from Truman's head,

begins to ring.  Truman doesn't flinch.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  NIGHT.

SYLVIA walks up from the seashore where she has been taking a

late night swim.  Hearing the telephone ringing; she rushes

to pick it up.  However, after lifting the receiver, the phone

continues to ring.

The sound is coming from her television, left on in the bureau.

On the screen, TRUMAN sleeps, seemingly undisturbed by the call.

Sylvia, drying herself, watches with fascination.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF and the CREW are now highly agitated.

Every question receives a shake of the Assistant's head in

reply.

Chloe promptly cuts the connection and Truman's phone

ceases to ring.

Christof turns his back on the monitors, his mind racing.

EXT.  TRUMAN'S HOUSE.  NIGHT.

MARLON's car squeals to a halt outside Truman's house.

Hurriedly dressed in jeans and coat over a bare chest, he

dashes barefoot to the front door.  He tries the doorhandle,

pounds on the door and rings the doorbell simultaneously,

shouting Truman's name all the while.

Frustrated, Marlon runs to the bedroom and thumps on the

window. He can see the shape of Truman lying on the bed but

his shouts fail to rouse him.  Marlon picks up one of Meryl's

carefully nurtured flower pots from beneath the bedroom window.

Marlon hurls the flower pot through the window sending a shower

of glass over Truman's bed.  Still he doesn't move.  Marlon

reaches his hand through the shards of glass clinging to the

window frame and unlatches the window.

NT. TRUMAN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM.  NIGHT.

MARLON clanbers headfirst through the opened window and lands

in an awkward heap on the floor beside TRUMAN's bed.

He pushes away the clutter in the bedroom and finally

stands at his co-star's bedside.  There is a hissing sound.

Marlon gingerly lifts the bedcover.  Beneath the bedding is a

life-size inflatable female doll.

The doll has been punctured by the glass and is slowly

deflating.  Lying beside the doll's chest is Truman's portable

tape recorder.  Marlon picks up the recorder and places it next

to his ear.  The cassette plays the sound of Truman breathing.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  NIGHT.

CHRISTOF, wide-eyed, stares at the image on the On-Air monitor

of MARLON and his bizarre companion.  Marlon is frozen, staring

into camera.

Simeon hesitates, unsure if has heard correctly.  He looks to

Christof for confirmation, his finger poised over an

"EMERGENCY" button.

Christof lunges forward and presses the button himself.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  NIGHT.

SYLVIA watches agog as the scene in Truman's bedroom on

her television screen is replaced by the "TRUMAN" logo and the

message, "TECHNICAL FAULT.  PLEASE STAND BY."

INT.  CONTROL ROOM NIGHT.

CHRISTOF has taken his place at the control panel.  On the bank

of monitors in front of the mixing desk, the OPERATORS

systematically search through the numerous set-ups in Truman's

home and neighborhood.  Occasionally MARLON or an EXTRA appear

in frame as they fan out and begin a man-hunt.

While the on-Air monitor continues to play its test-card,

Christof and Simeon concentrate on another isolated monitor

playing in fast-rewind, time code in the bottom right corner.

It is a recording of the night's transmission.  Simeon stops on

the last on-camera appearance by TRUMAN.

They watch Truman, on-screen, switch off his bedroom light and

climb into bed fully clothed, immediately pulling the covers

over his head.  As the light is switched off, the recording

camera automatically switches to night vision.  Simeon continues

to play at normal speed, now and then scrolling forward in fast-

forward mode.  Christof suddenly points to the screen.

Simeon types the appropriate command.

On the blown-up screen, between a cardboard box and a chair leg,

it is barely possible to make out Truman's hand as he crawls

commando-style from his bedroom, his inflatable replacement

already positioned in the bed.

Simeon feels the hostility.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

The systematic search of the monitors continues.  They now

reveal that dawn has broken on the set.

All heads turn to CHLOE as she enters the grand control room

with a status report.

EXT.  VACANT LOT.  DAY.

TRUMAN rolls in the dirt of a construction site, tearing at his

clothes and caking his face and hair with black inud.

He struggles up a slope onto an adjacent roadway where a

shopping cart awaits, loaded with soiled plastic bags.

Looking every inch a derelict, Truman begins to wheel his

shopping cart through the empty streets of Brooklyn.

EXT.  BROOKLYN BRIDGE.  DAY.

TRUMAN wheels his shopping cart over a deserted Brooklyn Bridge.

Over his shoulder, in the far distance, we see a lone car

approaching.  As it nears, we recognize a police car.

Truman takes a look under the bridge, as if participating in

the search.  The car slowly draws alongside, the POLICE OFFICER

looking straight into Truman's blackened face.

The Police Officer takes a second look at Truman.  After what

seems like an eternity, he motions his PARTNER to drive on.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN.  DAY.

We pan down one concrete canyon after another.  The usually

bustling financial district is totally, eerily deserted.

Suddenly we see a line of PEOPLE fanned out across a street.

Then another and another.

PEOPLE of every description, shoulder to shoulder, marching

down the otherwise empty streets the way a search is conducted

at a crime scene.  The lines include PRINCIPALS and EXTRAS

linked arm in arm, wardrobed for their usual roles as EXECUTIVES

and SECRETARIES, STORE CLERKS, TELEPHONISTS, MAINTENANCE and

CONSTRUCTION WORKERS, WAITERS and WAITRESSES, COOKS, SHOPPERS,

HEALTH WORKERS, SECURITY GUARDS, POSTAL WORKERS, POLICE

OFFICERS, FIRE FIGHTERS AND HOMELESS PEOPLE.  On one occasion we

glimpse Truman's colleagues, LAWRENCE, ERROL and VIVIEN, amongst

the searchers.

A building-to-building, floor-to-floor, office-to-office search

is also being conducted, each structure secured as they go, the

searchers paying special attention to potential blind spots such

as closets, dumpsters, man holes, sewers, car trunks, trees and

shrubbery.

We focus on one of the waves of searchers.  TRUMAN has linked

arms in the middle of a row, his disguise still holding up.

A swarm of helicopters fills the sky.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

While his COLLEAGUES monitor the bank of screens, CHRISTOF has

been joined by the two ever-anxious studio executives, MOSES and

ROMAN.

INT.  BARROOM.  DAY.

The television behind the bar carries the still graphic.

BAR PATRONS animatedly discuss Truman's fate over their drinks.

Some place bets with each other over the outcome.

EXT.  ELECTRONICS STORE.  DAY.

A crowd of PASSERS-BY hover around a display of televisions

in the window of an electronics store, awaiting developments.

INT.  LIVING ROOM.  DAY.

The two OLD WOMEN we have seen before stare intently at the

graphic on their televisions.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

The fan of EXTRAS reaches the harbor and automatically turns to

make another sweep.

Chloe looks askance at Christof.

Christof turns his back on the screens.  Over his shoulder,

we see a monitor displaying a view of the harbor.

EXT.  LOWER MANHATTAN - PIER 13.  DAY.

TRUMAN has broken away from the line of searchers, on the

pretext of taking a leak.  He is standing on the edge of

Pier 13, facing the harbor, his back turned to those beginning

their next sweep.  Suddenly Truman ducks behind one of the green

and white inflatable canopies that enclose the Wall Street

Racquet Club.

We see a close up of Truman's terrified eyes in his blackened

face, staring down at the lapping water.  It triggers a montage

of flashbacks.  As usual the images all appear to play on a

television screen.

TRUMAN on the CLIFF FACE at seven years old, his second grade

teacher SISTER OLIVIA, a close-up of DROWNING STATISTICS at

his insurance company, mesmerized by the water in the FERRY

TERMINAL, seventeen-year old SYLVIA jumping in the fountain, his

WATERBED rocking, and seven-year old Truman sitting on the

UPTURNED BOAT in Long Island Sound crying into the darkness.

EXT.  PIER 13.  DAY.

TRUMAN comes back to reality.  He steels himself, shuts out the

doubts and dives into the water.

EXT.  NEW YORK HARBOR.  DAY.

Underwater we see TRUMAN panicking at the shock of the cold

sea, arms and legs flailing.  Suddenly he stops and sinks for a

moment in the weight of his clothes.  Then slowly he rises to

the surface and begins to swim.

Moored in the harbor is the scaled-down replica of Columbus'

flagship, The Santa Maria.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF is spooling through significant scenes in the history

of "TRUMAN" on a preview monitor.

He pauses on the scene of SYLVIA and TRUMAN at the fountain

in Flushing Meadow Park in the show's seventeenth season.

Sylvia has her finger to Truman's lips.  Christof presses

"PLAY" on the mixing desk.

Christof fast forwards, then presses PLAY once again.

Christof jabs the "PAUSE" button, freezing the picture.  He

recites the words to himself.

EXT.  NEW YOUR HARBOR.  DAY.

TRUMAN is at the wheel of the Santa Maria, wind filling her

sails.  Covering the face of the ship's compass is Sylvia's

composite picture.

His is the only craft afloat in New York Harbor.  As the archaic

vessel passes under the Verrazano-Narrows Bridget, the bridge

appears on fire in the glow of the sunlight.  Truman steers

around Norton Point and sets a course for the open sea - the

horizon.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF and his colleagues concentrate on a live aerial shot on

a preview monitor, skimming over the calm, featureless sea.

Suddenly in the distance there appears a single sail etched

against the horizon.

Simeon punches a button and the image of the sailing ship is

instantly transferred to the large On-Air monitor.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DAY.

SYLVIA, dozing on the sofa, suddenly blinks open her eyes as the

classical music on the television is abruptly replaced by the

sound of a helicopte's rotor blade.

Sylvia focuses on the screen, her breath taken away by the sight

of TRUMAN at the wheel of the Santa Maria.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

Simeon scans a computer shot list.  He types in a code.  A

camera from the main mast of Truman's ship activates.  Truman,

unaware of the camera, is concentrating on steering the vessel.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

TRUMAN is out of sight of land, the sea choppier now, rising

and falling beneath his boat.  He nears a large buoy bobbing

clumsily in the strong swell.  An official-looking sign is

attached - "DANGER.  NAVAL EXERCISES.  DO NOT ENTER."  We see an

extreme close up of the nautical signpost where a disguised

miniature camera tracks Truman's progress.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF and the other PRODUCTION STAFF watch TRUMAN from the

buoy's POV as he sails by.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

TRUMAN hears a helicopter overhead.  By now the ocean spray has

washed most of the dirt from his face, only a residue remains.

The rags he wears, including Sylvia's sweater under his open

coat, are soaked.  Her picture clings stubbornly to the compass.

As he steers, he occasionally refers to a "HOW TO SAIL" book

from his coat pocket.  He tacks against the wind, as he watches

the military chopper circle his boat.

Truman screams defiantly back to the chopper.

EXT.  A STREET SOMEWHERE.  DAY.

Two YOUNG MEN on a street corner watch, transfixed, the image

of TRUMAN steering the Santa Maria on a portable Watchman TV.

INT.  HELICOPTER.  DAY.

The HELICOPTER PILOT continues to circle.

TRUMAN screams again at the chopper and gestures wildly at the

pilot.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

A round of machine gun fire strafes the water across the bows

of Truman's boat, several rounds striking the deck.  TRUMAN

flinches.  In his eyes we see the ghosts return.  With great

effort he shakes the doubts from his head and retrieves a flare

gun from the storage cabinet in the boat's wheel house.

Truman takes aim at the chopper and fires the flare gun.  The

distress flare hurtles towards the hovering helicopter, narrowly

missing.  Truman ejects the spent cartridge and reloads.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

Before the chopper can take evasive action TRUMAN takes aim a

second time and fires.  The distress flare fishtails into the

sky and to Truman's surprise and delight, finds its mark,

striking the rear rotor blade.  Truman lets out a whoop.

The helicopter immediately begins to spiral downwards towards

the sea.  The CHOPPER PILOTS bail out of the cockpit, splashing

down safely into the coean while the helicopter enters the waves

in a spectacular belly flop, sinking out of view in seconds like

a stone.  Watching the pilots bobbing around in the ocean in

their inflatable life jackets, thoughts of duty invade Truman's

head.  He shuts out the thoughts and turns his back, steering

away from the drifting pilots.  A look of resolve in his eyes we

have never witnessed before.

INT.  SYLVIA'S BEACH HOUSE.  DAY.

SYLVIA kneels on the floor in front of the television.  As

Christof's cameras dwell on her likeness - the composite picture

still covering the ship's compass - she allows herself a brief

moment of satisfaction but she does not dare to hope too much.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

CHRISTOF, CHLOE, SIMEON, and the OTHERS have been joined in the

control room by MARLON, MERYL, KIRK and AUDREY.

Simeon reluctantly turns to a panel of controls on the desk

marked "WAVE", "WIND" and "RAIN".  After typing in a command, he

winds the controls towards their maximum settings.

Chloe searches Christof's face, trying to find the man in whom

she has believed for so long.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

Darkness suddenly descends as storm clouds roll towards Truman's

boat at an alarming speed.  High winds buffet the boat.  TRUMAN

fights the wheel.  Hurricane force winds shake the masts and

keel, ripping the sails to shreds.

The picture of Sylvia is torn from the compass and lost to the

sea.  His "HOW TO SAIL" book skids off the deck.

Truman takes a rope from beneath the wheel house and lashes

himself to the wheel to secure himself on board.

Monstrous waves continually submerge the deck.  Truman continues

to head into the teeth of the gale.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DAY.

In contrast to his panic-stricken COLLEAGUES, CHRISTOF gives an

outward appearance of calm.  However a bead of sweat appearing

at his temple betrays him.

Chloe lunges for the control panel but Christof throws her to

the floor.

All eyes turn in Christof's direction, as he confirms Chloe's

accusation.

EXT.  ATLANTIC OCEAN.  DAY.

TRUMAN appears to be losing his fight against the storm,

each successive breaker taking its toll on his body, sapping

his strength, his bindings the only thing holding him upright,

his head slumps, the wheel goes loose in his grasp, spinning

out of control.  His will, draining away.

As he is about to be overcome by the next wave, he thrusts his

arm into the handles of the spinning wheel.  He cries out in

pain at the blow to his forearm but succeeds in halting the

wheel.  He braces for one last wave.

But the wave does not come.  A strange phenomenon is occurring

in the ocean.  A distinct division has appeared in the ocean

swell.  Between the large rolling waves lies a corridor of

calmer water, several hundred yards wide, a curious escape lane.

The wind and the rain are also subsiding, the darkness lifting.

Truman steers his vessel down this "sea-lane".

After some time, several large, dark shapes emerge on the

horizon.  Land?  Islands?  As Truman steers towards the nearest

shape, he discovers what is behind the peculiar wave formations.

It is certainly not the moon.

The dark shape is a huge iron roller, only half of which is

exposed above the surface of the sea.  The ocean swell is being

caused by the roller slowly turning, mechanically-driven on

either end by massive steel arms pumping from the sea bed.

In fact there are rollers spaced four hundred yards apart in

both directions along the horizon as far as the eye can see,

the calm sea-lanes formed by the gaps between the rollers.

Truman's boat is dwarfed by the gigantic machines.  The exposed

half of each roller, the height of a ten story building, its

length equivalent to several football fields.  The massive arms

perpetually churn.

Truman's face is thrown into shadow as the boat slips quietly

past the giant rotating drum.  The water beyond the rollers is

dead calm.  Truman stares ahead desperately trying to focus his

eyes.

But if the sight of the wave machines was difficult to

comprehend, it pales in comparison with the next sight that

greets him.  His boat is drifting inexorably, on a slow

collision course with the sky.  That infinitely receding horizon

line recedes no more.

The sea really does meet the sky.  The join is only too

apparent.  Looming above him out of the sea is a cyclorama of

colossal dimensions.  The sky is nothing but a painted backdrop.

Truman looks upward, straining his eyes to see the top of the

sky, but it curves away at a steep angle beyond his sight.

The bow of the boat comes to rest against the sky, bumping

gently into its latex surface.  Truman unties his bindings

and stumbles across the deck to the side rail.  Clinging to the

rail with one hand, he tentatively reaches out towards the

painted cyclorama.  He touches the sky.

He feels the surface, puts both terrified hands against it.

Hie eyes well up with tears.  He presses his distraught face

into it.  He screams at the top of his voice.  No words.  A

primal scream.  A pained, animal howl.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

CHRISTOF and his PRODUCTION STAFF take in Truman's reaction

in silence.

INT/EXT.  BARROOM/ELECTRONICS STORE/HOME.  DUSK.

TRUMAN's cry echos around bars, offices, shops, homes and

streets - wherever a television is to be found.  No VIEWER

speaks.  They are stunned to silence, many teary eyed.

EXT.  CYCLORAMA.  DUSK.

As the boat drifts alongside the seemingly never-ending curve

of the cyclorama, TRUMAN's attention is drawn to an outline in

the otherwise flawless backdrop.  He clambers to the prow of the

boat.

There, camoflaged in the painted skyscape just above the water

line, is a door.  Truman grabs hold of the recessed doorhandle

and halts the drifting boat.  He stands in front of the door and

closes his eyes in a silent prayer.

He opens the door in the sky and steps through.

INT/EXT.  VIEWERS.  DUSK.

Spontaneous cheers and shouts of joy erupt from VIEWERS in their

various locations - bars, homes and offices.  Strangers hug each

other and dance in celebration.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

Even the cynical VIDEO OPERATOR jumps out of his seat - for the

first time in the film - and lets out a joyous whoop, forgetting

himself for a moment, caught up in the drama.

Self-conscious, he takes his seat again almost immediately.  His

COLLEAGUES are transfixed by the live on-air monitor continuing

to play its only available shot, the open door in the sky -

Truman out of view.

INT.  SOUNDSTAGE.  DUSK.

TRUMAN finds himself on a small metal landing.  A steel ladder

rises above him to the height of "sky", the soundstage roof, so

high as to be barely visible.  The rungs also continue downward,

the depth of the "ocean-bed", to a studio floor far below.

Truman turns and looks back through the door he has just

entered.  Unsecured, the Santa Maria is beginning to drift away.

The sea he has feared since childhood, is nothing but an

enormous tank.  The sky, a massive cyclorama.  New York City, an

elaborate set.  And it is all housed within an impossibly large

soundstage.

Truman makes no effort to save the boat.  He shuts the door to

his world.  A sign on the back of the door reads, "CLOSED SET.

No Unauthorized Access."  Gradually he becomes aware of another

strange phenomenon taking place in the soundstage.  All around

him, thousands of light fixtures mounted in the cyclorama to

masquerade as stars, are slowly illuminating - switched on by an

automatic timer.  (The light fixtures match the one that almost

struck Truman's car at the beginning of the film.)

By artificial starlight, Truman begins his long descent of the

step ladder.  Below, a studio tram makes its way along the

soundstage perimeter, on the last tour of the day.

INT.  STUDIO TRAM.  DUSK.

As he drives, a well-scrubbed, young TOUR GUIDE delivers his

tired commentary into a microphone for the thousandth time to

the half-full tram of STUDIO VISITORS.

However, the passengers are paying less attention than usual.

They stare, perplexed, at the television monitor above the

Guide's head, continuing to play the show's only available shot

of the open door in the sky.

INT.  SOUNDSTAGE.  DUSK.

TRUMAN suddenly steps in front of the tram.  The TOUR GUIDE

stands on the brakes, tram lurching to a stop.  The Guide looks

from Truman's haunted face to the monitor, hardly able to

believe his eyes.

Truman leaps on board, pressing his flare gun into the side of

the guide's head.

The terrified Guide pulls jerkily away in the tram, resuming the

tour.

The Guide hesitantly resumes his commentary into his microphone.

Truman's attention drifts to the logo on the side of the tram -

"TRUMAN STUDIO TOUR".  He is suddenly aware of the tourists

gawking at him.

Truman ducks out of sight as a fleet of STUDIO SECURITY CARS

speeds towards the tram.  But they streak past, on their way to

the site of Truman's escape.  As he tentatively gets back to his

feet, Truman finds a CHILD standing in front of him with an

autograph book.

On the child's T-shirt, a large photograph of Truman's face.

INT.  CONTROL ROOM.  DUSK.

CHRISTOF talks anxiously on the phone, unaware of a shift in the

balance of power taking place behind his back.  The executives,

MOSES and ROMAN are huddling with SIMEON, making him an offer he

appears to welcome.

On the far side of the control room, behind a huge curved

glass wall on a mezzanine floor, a studio tour tram passes by.

INT.  STUDIO TRAM.  DUSK.

TRUMAN crouches behind a seat on the tram, flare gun still

trained on the guide's head, taking in the gigantic video wall

displaying pictures from every facet of his life.

His heart sinks as he spies the monitor revealing the private

spot where he and SYLVIA met.

From Truman's POV we watch CHLOE approach CHRISTOF.  She has a

pure white envelope in her hands.  As Christof looks up to

acknowledge her, he almost makes eye contact with Truman on the

tram.

INT.  STUDIO LOT.  DUSK.

Still inside the studio complex, the tram enters the courtyard

of an indoor shopping mall.  Truman gift shops.

TRUMAN is momentarily frozen by the sight of window displays

full of books and board games carrying his likeness with titles

such as, "TrumanTrivia".  Video cassettes offering "Truman

Highlights".  His face emblazoned on T-shirts, caps, coffee mugs

and posters.  Even Truman Dolls and a model of his decaying

Oldsmobile are offered for sale.

The tram slows to a stop behind other trams at the tour's end.

STUDIO POLICE are checking the disembarking PASSENGERS.  Truman,

using the TOUR GUIDE as a shield, also exits the tram.

Truman contemptuously backhands the Guide across the face and

makes a run for it.  The guards give chase.  Truman runs into a

lookalike mannequin, dressed in a brown suit identical to his

own, promoting "TrumanWear".  He pulls his "double" to the

ground to block the guards' path.

Sprinting along a featureless corridor, he reaches a dead end.

Truman enters a doorway marked "NO ENTRY" to find a stairway

leading upwards.  He takes the stairs three at a time.

The footsteps and shouts of the guards not far behind.  Flight

after flight of stairs.  At one point, he loses his grip on the

stair's railing and his gun falls from his hand, clattering for

an eternity down the stairwell.

He finally emerges on a landing.  Lungs bursting.  One more

door.  He tries the handle.  It opens.

EXT.  SOUNDSTAGE.  DUSK.

TRUMAN finds himself on the roof of the soundstage.  Outside.

He looks frantically around him.  Nowhere to hide.  The

soundstage stretches for miles in both directions as far as the

eye can see, an interminable expanse of roof.

Facing him, a colossal Burbank.  Several other soundstages

almost as gigantic as his own.  The palm trees lining the

streets, dwarfed by the mammoth barns.

The Hollywood Freeway in the distance, carrying its ribbons of

traffic, twenty lanes wide.  Gargantuan office buildings

eclipse any skyscraper Truman has ever known.

Directly below him, a dizzying drop to the studio lot and its

arched entranceway.

Above him, a large yellow moon in the twilight sky.  The

moon, not the planetarium projection he has been contemplating

for the last thirty-four years.

Truman wheels around, suddenly realizing he is not alone.  A

GROUP has emerged on the rooftop, standing still and silent

in a semi-circle, cutting off any escape.

Along with the STUDIO GUARDS, keeping their distance in the

background, are CHLOE, SIMEON, and the two studio executives,

MOSES and ROMAN.  In front of them, the co-stars in his life -

MARLON, MERYL, sister RAQUEL, mother AUDREY and supposedly dead

father KIRK.  No one moves or speaks as Truman scans the

familiar faces.  Marlon, in particular, cannot look him in the

eye.

Truman's gaze finally falls on the white-haired old man standing

at the head of the group.  CHRISTOF.  He approaches Truman

alone, carrying a white envelope, calling his name the way a

father calls to a son.

Truman seems to sense the significance Christof has had in his

life, drawn to and repelled by him at the same time.  As they

stand together looking into each other's eyes for the first

time, they seem to be the only two figures on the roof.  For a

moment Truman averts his gaze to the night sky.

As Truman turns his attention back to Christof, he suddenly

lunges at him, catching him off-guard, the envelope slipping

from Christof's hand.  With a strength he never knew he

possessed, Truman forces Christof to the edge of the soundstage

roof, threatening to throw them both off his counterfeit world.

Christof clings desperately to Truman to save himself.  The

studio guards dare not move.

Suddenly the doubts flood into Christof's eyes, fearing he

has misjudged Truman, fearing for his life.

It takes all of Truman's will not to hurl the old man into the

abyss.  Christof, petrified, looks to the pristine, white

envelope that lies half over the edge of the roof, glinting in

the moonlight.

Truman follows Christof's gaze.  Contemptuously tossing Christof

aside, he retrieves the envelope.  Christof crawls to safety,

thankful to still be alive, suddenly appearing very small and

insignificant.

But Christof and the other figures on the rooftop no longer

exist in Truman's mind.  Truman gazes at his name for a long

moment, handwritten on the envelope in blue ink, then carefully

breaks the seal.  Truman allows the sole item in the envelope to

be slowly revealed.  A photograph.  A close up of SYLVIA's face

including her eyes, mouth and that perfect, ever-elusive nose.

A serenity comes over Truman.  He lifts up his eyes to the

mountains on the far horizon.  As he stands on the very edge of

the soundstage roof without fear, clutching the photograph, we

commence a long, slow pull-back.

Truman is unaware that directly beneath his feet on the wall

of the enormous soundstage is a billboard acrrying a gigantic

picture of his face and proclaiming, "TRUMAN - Total Record of a

Human Life.  34TH GREAT YEAR!"

We continue to pull back until Truman is nothing but a speck on

top of the soundstage so large it never completely clears frame.

A MONTAGE OF VARIOUS LOCATIONS

The two OLD WOMEN in the living room, the NIGHTWATCHMEN, the

two YOUNG MEN with the Watchman TV, the PATRONS in the bar,

PASSERS-BY outside an electronics store are all captivated by

their television sets.

We focus on the screen of a television.  A small FEMALE BABY

sucks a toy on a blanket in the backyard of Truman's old

suburban home in Queens, the lawn he mowed for ten years of his

life.  The infant's doting parents, MARLON and the new actress

VIVIEN, enter frame and begin to fuss over the child.  A border

around the action on the screen announces, "ZOE - Total

Record Of a Human Life".

Suddenly we see a child's hand on top of the television screen.

A BABY stands unsteadily, supporting herself against the

television set in Sylvia's house.

TRUMAN bends down and picks up his baby, tossing her into the

air, much to the child's delight.  Truman dwells for a moment

on the mirror-image scene on the television before very

deliberately shutting it off.

SYLVIA joins Truman and their daughter.  Together, they exit

the beach house.  We follow them as they make their way onto the

deserted sand and down towards the sea.

FADE OUT

