TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      4.         *

Werner, now 70, is bent and old. Julius, in peasant garb

is a marvelous-looking human being.

Julius isn't listening.    His eyes shine.

Julius strides along a windswept path, followed by

Werner. The ocean spread out below them is vast and

empty. This island is far from anywhere.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      5.         *

It's a blend of modern technology and the tropical

environment -- floor-to-ceiling book-cases, computers, a

hammock shrouded in a mosquito net.

Julius is hurriedly packing a small leather suitcase,

watched by Werner.

Werner hands over a photograph: it's a picture of a

younger Werner, Traven, and the six fathers.

Julius slips the photo into his suitcase.

They hug as we --

The water's edge. Julius, Werner, an OLDER LADY, two

scientists and an ORIENTAL man are all saying goodbye.

Julius puts his suitcase into a small rowboat.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                  6.

Julius then bows to the Oriental, who bows back.

Without warning, the Oriental tries to strike Julius in

the face with the side of his hand, but Julius blocks

the blow.

Julius gives a last hug to Werner.

TWINS - Rev. 5/25/88                                   A6A.         *

Julius gets in the boat and casts off. The boat takes off

like a streak. Julius, in perfect rhythm, increases the

pace. The boat is almost flying across the water.

VINCE BENEDICT    lies in bed, looking extremely pleased

with himself.     A SEXY YOUNG WOMAN is nestled asleep

against him.     The digital bedside ALARM PURRS and starts

to PLAY MUSIC    -- something romantic that Vince hums along

to.

Carla snuggles against Vince as he surveys the bedroom

like a house-proud new owner.

TWINS - Rev. 4/15/88                                   12/13.

The Owner smiles and turns. Vince continues counting the

money, nervous as hell. Now --

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                       20.

The back door opens and Vince crawls out on hands and

knees. His journey abruptly ends as he now faces KLANE

#2 -- BOB -- considerably larger than his brother inside.

Vince is thrown in, forcefully, into a table.        He crashes

onto the floor.

A booth at the back of the restaurant: Vince is seated

with the two Klane brothers. He hands over the money he

picked up from the BMW -- $4000. The smaller Klane counts

it quickly.

Bob suddenly punches Vince in the side knocking the breath

out of him.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                       21/22.

Linda comes over -- Very nervous, she looks around, then

hands over an envelope.

Just as he opens his mouth, Vince is elbowed again.

Linda is walking Vince out.

They kiss.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                       24.

But Julius is pretty noticable no matter where he goes.

TWO HELMETLESS MOTORCYCLISTS

watching Julius. More specifically, they are watching

the expensive-looking leather-edged suitcase he carries in

his hand. They look at the case a moment more, then

Biker #2 gets his MACHINE PURRING softly.

You never saw such lingerie.

PULL BACK to reveal:

Julius, staring at it, shaking his head.

BIKER #1

ROARING up beside Julius, smiling ingratiatingly.

Julius thinks he's found a friend.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                    25.

Biker #2,   bounds along, and when he reaches Julius he

grabs the   handle of the leather case that Julius holds,

his plan   quite obvious -- to steal the case and disappear

into the   crowded street.

Not an original plan, certainly, but one that over and

over again, always works --

CASE HANDLE

Julius's hand holds fast to it.    Then --

BIKER #2

As his mouth drops open as we --

JULIUS

just sort of standing there, no big deal, not much effort

showing on his face as Biker #2 begins to slowly rise

into the air as he and his cycle are about to be parted

and then --

CYCLIST #2

still holding to the case as his CYCLE ZOOMS away from

him and for a moment he is flat in mid-air, parallel to

the cement sidewalk and --

RIDERLESS MOTORCYCLE

ROARING into the crowd and people shriek, dive out of

its way and --

TWINS - 4/14/88                                        26.

CYCLIST #2

falling to the pavement, his head colliding hard and he's

out and --

RIDERLESS CYCLE

ending its trip as it collides with a storefront and

collapses on its side, MOTOR still ROARING but no

movement anymore and --

CYCLIST #1

stunned, going to his unconscious partner.

Julius calmly kneels beside the still form. He puts

his case down, and his hands move expertly across the

prone figure.

JULIUS

eyes almost closed as his skilled hands touch the guy a

moment more.

Julius rises.

And now he picks up his case, starts to go; pauses.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                       28.

As we HOLD ON Vince's depressed face we FADE TO BLACK --

Julius walks up the stairs leading to the front door.

Young boys in uniform are raucously enjoying their recess

under the supervision of several nuns in habits.

An elderly MOTHER SUPERIOR looks dubiously at Julius as

he stares out the window down on the playground.

He turns and examines the dormitory which is lined with

metal cots. He points to a cot near the door and smiles

fondly.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                     35.

As Julius sweetly hands it over --

As Julius counts out almost the last of his money to the

police attendant, who hands him a set of keys. Vince

grabs them and walks out of the building. Julius

follows.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                        36.

This is exactly what Vince has been thinking.

Julius tries to drape an arm around Vince's shoulder.

Vince gives him a look. Julius drops his arm.

Vince and Julius are walking down a long line of cars.

VINCE'S MUSTANG

Which is what Julius is pointing at.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                   37.

Vince unlocks his side, gets in. Julius, smiling and

happy, starts to walk around to the other side.

And on that, he GUNS his CAR the hell away, leaving

Julius standing there.

JULIUS

Deserted, alone in the sea of cars.

As a gleaming new Cadillac rolls up to the ticket booth.

Al leans out from the booth, taking in the car and its

occupants -- two men, one in a Hawaiian shirt, one in a

tanktop, both wearing Ray-Bans. They look like they're

going on vacation.

TWINS - Rev. 6/22/88                                      38.

The driver, GARFIELD, just nods, holds out his hand for

the ticket.

The two men just stare straight ahead, uninterested in

conversation. Al hands the driver a ticket.

The Cadillac accelerates up the ramp.

as it pulls into a parking spot in the enclosed lot.

Man #2, LARSON, opens an attache case, removes a

cassette, inserts it into the tape deck while the driver

wipes down the steering wheel, gearshift, etc. with a

cloth to remove their fingerprints.

OUTSIDE CADILLAC

as the men get out, lock the car, wipe off the door

handles, and then head for the elevator.

As Vince approaches a door on which a sign reads:

His door opens and out come two furniture MOVERS with a

desk.

TWINS - Rev. 6/22/88                                    39.         *

He opens a desk drawer, pulls out a razor and begins

shaving as he walks into his office.

Almost nothing is left but the phone on the floor, with

Miss Busby, his secretary, standing by it. Vince is

stunned.

The PHONE RINGS -- Miss Busby drops to her knees beside

it.

As she hands him the phone.

First, the car tilts and Vince is pitched unceremoniously

forward, landing on the floor of the car under the steer-

ing wheel. He scrambles back to the seat -- it's not easy

because of the angle.

Second, the SIREN STOPS.    Vince looks out the car window.

JULIUS

holding the rear of the car several feet up in the air.

It's beginning to dawn on Vince that there may be more to

Julius than meets the eye.

The Cadillac passes by, Vince at the wheel.

A pause.

Now the Mustang comes along, Julius at the wheel. He

drives terribly, stopping and starting -- jerking along.

Julius suddenly puts his foot on the gas and roars past

Vincent.

Julius is speeding like a kid with a new toy. Suddenly

the CAR PHONE BEEPS. He locates the source of the sound,

and picks up the phone.

As Julius makes a sharp turn -- on two wheels -- into

the parking lot and comes to a dramatic squealing stop

that spins the car around 180 degrees.

Vince's car pulls in a moment later. He gets out, gazes

at the skid marks as a smiling Julius approaches.

Julius and Vince enter the supermarket.

LINDA AND MARNIE

are pushing a cart down one of the other aisles. Linda

is filling it with birthday candles, cake mixes, etc.

Linda stops pushing the cart and looks at her.

MAGAZINE RACK

Adjacent to the express checkout lane where Linda and

Marnie now join the line. Julius picks up a Playboy and

begins speed-reading it. His eyes widen at what he's

reading, and seeing, and when he reaches the centerfold

he audibly gasps.

She reaches past Julius to take a copy of Cosmopolitan.

Julius drops the Playboy, which falls open on the ground,

with the centerfold revealed. Flustered and blushing, he

bends down to retrieve it, watched by Marnie, who can't

take her eyes off the sheer beauty of his physique.

Julius tries to stuff the centerfold back into the maga-

zine, but only manages to crumple it. Linda and Marnie

exchange a look.

They all turn and look at Vince, who's pulled his cart

up behind them.

Linda and Marnie, stunned, look from Vince to Julius.

The girls stand holding their bags while the brothers

are each in their cars.

And he guns off.

And he guns off too -- only in his excitement he's gone

into reverse.

Now he follows Vince.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                   57.

Vince clocks Julius's reaction as he removes an eviction

notice from his front door.

It's a small one-bedroom decorated primarily with garden

furniture. As they come inside, Vince is confronted by

a reproachfully MEOWING CAT.

Vince freezes, realizing the implications.

Vince is seasoning some containers of take-out food and

popping them in the microwave, while Julius strokes the

cat who shares his name.

The microwave ALARM sounds, and it pops open.

As Vince and Julius prepare to eat, they both turn their

plates counter-clockwise, then dab their lips with their

napkins. They both reach for the salt at the same moment.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                     65.         *

Granger reacts; he's speechless. Julius hands him the

group photo of his mother, six fathers, Traven, and

Werner.

Granger looks at the photo, then at Julius.

Julius gently takes the photo from the Girl, looks at the

face she pointed at, then at Granger. Now Julius is

speechless -- Granger is one of his fathers!

The little Girl disappears back inside.       Granger, clearly

shaken, looks at Julius.

ON Julius's reaction, as we --

Trophies, framed photos, other memorabilia of Granger's

illustrious football career adorn the walls.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                    66.

Julius studies them admiringly while Granger looks at the

group photo.

This really gets to Granger -- the injustice of it all.

He points to Traven's face in the photo.

TWINS - Rev. 5/25/88                                      67/68.

As the Cadillac enters through a gate and makes its way

past the hulks of dead cars towards the same body shop

we saw earlier.

As Vince cleans out the glove compartment, pocketing

some cigars and spare change. He pulls the cassette out

of the STEREO, glances at it, pops it back in, turns it

ON, and hears:

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                   70-76.

A sign on the top of the building reads:   "McKinley

Aerospace."

He doesn't know whether to shit or wind his watch just

now -- God knows what he's into.

TWINS - 4/14/88                                          77.

A huge office in Houston. We are looking at the bottom

of a pair of fancy boots. It blocks the view for the

moment of the speaker, but we can see a briefcase on the

desk.

Boots down now -- we are looking at a very rich, very

tough S.O.B.

Edgy. His pencil bounces up and down on the crucial

amount, the twenty thousand.

Beetroot.    Exploding.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      78.

We can see the briefcase now by the way -- it's open and

seems quite full of money.

clearing his throat, taken aback by the violence of

Beetroot's tone.

as the words "five million dollars" really sink in.

We are looking at what just might be the high moment of

his life.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                       79/80.

He writes down the proper amount now:       $5,000,000.   Then

he kisses the piece of paper.

Vince hangs up, jumps up and screams with joy. He puts

the cassette in his pocket, crumples up the piece of

paper, and sky-hooks it into the waste basket.

Al and his wife Carla are tied to chairs in the dining

room. Webster sits between them, drinking a cup of

coffee and calmly loading his gun.

Webster puts down the gun, jots down the name.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                      81.

Webster suddenly kicks over the chair with Al on it.

Carla screams --

Webster writes it all down.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                      82.         *

As Vince comes out of     his house, carrying a sleeping bag,

pillow, some clothing,     a six-pack of soft drinks. On top

of the stack is a map     of the Western U.S., which he's

studying while singing     the song "Houston":

Vince tosses the items into the back seat of the Caddy,

just as Julius jogs up the driveway and collapses against

the Caddie door. He's red in the face, completely

drenched with sweat, gasping for breath, having run all

the way from Bel-Air.

TWINS - Rev. 4/27/88                                        83.         *

Julius, in his fervor, grips Vince by the shoulders.

Vince removes Julius's hands, slides him away from the

door, and opens it.

Julius takes the map from Vince, looks at it.

Vince gets in behind the wheel. Julius marches around

the car and gets into the passenger seat beside him.

Julius slams his hand down on the top of the dash.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                      84.

Vince, realizing that Julius won't be denied, tries a

new tack.

Julius leaps out of the car and bounds into Vince's

apartment. As soon as the door shuts behind him, Vince

hits the CADDY'S IGNITION and begins SQUEALING out of

the driveway in reverse... just as Linda and Marnie's

car pulls into it, blocking his path. Vince slams his

hands down onto the wheel in frustration.

Linda and Marnie get out of their car, singing "Happy

Birthday." Linda approaches Vince with a birthday

cake, complete with lit candles.

Vince gets out of the car and, although it kills him,

tries to put on a happy face for Linda.

Marnie walks into the house.                                         *

Linda gazes at Vince's belongings in the Caddy.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                     85.         *

Vince, knowing when he's beat, whispers conspiratorially.

An apartment door opens, revealing a FEMALE NEIGHBOR of

Vince's.

She slams the door shut.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      86.

Marnie snoops around, examines the group photo lying on

top of Julius's suitcase. In the b.g. she can hear

Julius singing in the shower --

She puts the photo back as the sound of SHOWER STOPS.

Julius emerges from the bathroom, clutching a towel

around his waist, and freezes at the sight of Marnie.

An awkward silence.                                                  *

TWINS - Rev. 5/25/88                                   92A.

The Caddy drives through this mysterious town in the

mountains of New Mexico.

Julius and Vince have parked the car and are walking to

a research building. Vince is trying to humor Julius who

is full of a quiet confidence.

TWINS - Rev. 4/28/88                                      95.

Vince's jaw drops as he realizes --                                   *

As CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY DOWN it, we realize this is a

reprise of our film's opening location.

LABORATORY DOOR

Chained and padlocked.      Traven unlocks it, pulls off the

chains.

The very same one we saw in our opening, now covered in

dust and cobwebs. Julius and Vince take it all in;

they're numb, while Traven seems in control again.

JULIUS

approaches a delivery table, touches it gently, looks

back at Traven.

VINCE

gazes at the "blender" we saw Traven demonstrating in

1953.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                   96.

TRAVEN

gazes contemptuously at Vince.

Vince is not unhappy at this information.

Angry tears well up in Vince's eyes.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                     97.

He turns to go.

Julius grabs Traven, slams him up against the wall.

Julius tosses him aside.

Vince is sitting in the car, slumped over the wheel.

Julius shakes his head.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                    97A.

Vince looks at his brother.

Vince is starting to get interested again.

Vince remembers. All the bravado about loving being an

orphan has gone now.

Tears begin to well up in Vince's eyes.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      98.

Vince looks at his brother.      A beat.

TWINS - Rev. 4/22/88                                      98A.

Julius nods.    Vince thinks about it some more.

Vince begins to brighten.

As Vince ushers Julius through the door.

A SALES CLERK approaches Vince.

TWINS - Rev. 4/28/88                                99.

As Vince and Julius emerge, dressed in identical outfits;

each in his own way looks like a male model from an

Italian fashion magazine.

Julius doesn't have a clue. Vince dons sunglasses and

demonstrates a soulful strut.

Indicating glasses.

Julius puts on sunglasses, snaps his fingers, tries to

ape Vince's moves while Vince appraises him.

TWINS - Rev. 4/28/88                                  100.

Linda and Marnie look up in amazement as Vince and Julius

bop down the pavement towards them.

Vince is finishing dressing, making sure he looks partic-

ularly fantastic. Julius hangs back; something is

bothering him.

Julius looks at his brother.

TWINS - Rev. 4/22/88                                  100A.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      101.

Julius shakes his head.

VINCE

He shoves a chair out of the way, making a little room.

Julius looks at his brother, then self-consciously takes

his hands.

Vince begins to take Julius through the steps slowly at

first, then as Julius gains confidence they begin to

sail round the room, and we --

As Beetroot hangs up, the CAMERA SLOWLY PANS to reveal he

is not alone. In the b.g. is a very hard-looking man,

Beetroot's bodyguard. And standing close to the desk

is WEBSTER.

And he's gone.

TWINS - Rev. 5/2/88                                     105.

Linda and Marnie, both a little tipsy. Linda suddenly

freezes at the sight of Morris Klane scoping the room.

Morris is still wearing a bandage from his beating by

Julius.

Linda takes Marnie by the hand, just as --

BURT AND BOB KLANE

each with a cast on his foot, each supported by a crutch,

force them back into the booth.

VINCE AND JULIUS

approach the table. Burt and Bob open their jackets,

revealing they have guns on the girls. Morris Klane

appears behind Vince and Julius.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                      106.

A long beat.

Morris grabs Vince roughly by the arm.

He pushes his gun into Marnie's side.

Julius is unpacking his suitcase on one of the beds --

arranging his books on the bedside table, hanging his

clothes on hangars. Vince watches him, glances at

his watch, and begins to edge towards the door.

Vince picks up one of Julius' heavy tomes.

Julius looks fondly at his brother as he sees him to

the door.

Vince gives Julius a sly look as he lets himself out of

the room.

CLOSE - A TV SCREEN

showing a clip of the "3 Stooges" at their moronic best.

JULIUS

sits watching the TV, nodding in amusement, laughing,

slapping his knee in pleasure.

He returns his attention to the book he's been reading

-- something the size of a dictionary -- but can't help

returning his gaze to the TV.

He freezes at the sound of a KNOCK at the DOOR. Embar-

rassed by what he's been watching, he quickly turns off

the TV, and goes to answer the door, still holding the

book.

Julius opens the door, revealing Marnie, who walks in

right past him.

TWINS - Rev. 4/28/88                                    109.

Watched by Julius, Marnie pulls the curtains shut, kills

the overhead lights, all the while providing him with

glimpses of various parts of her anatomy. She gets into

one of the beds, turns off the bedside lamp.

Julius puts the blanket and pillow from the other bed

onto the floor between the two beds, then shuts off the

other lamp.

Silence...

Getting out of bed, she pulls the blanket and pillow

with her as she steps over Julius, who tries not to look

up, and gets into the other bed.

Silence...

She gets out, again dragging the blanket and pillow,

puts them down on the floor next to Julius. She crawls

under the blanket, turns her back to him.

Silence.     Marnie shivers, chattering her teeth.

Julius strips it off and hands it to her. She puts it

on and pulls the blanket over her shoulder. Again she

shivers.

Julius lies there, thinking about it.

Julius reaches under the blanket, removes his bottoms and

passes them over. Marnie puts them on under her blanket.

He wraps his blanket around his waist, goes into the

bathroom, comes out with a glass of water. He hands it

to her.

TWINS - Rev. 4/28/88                                    111.

She spills the water all over her top and bedding.

She starts stripping off everything she's wearing.      Julius

averts his eyes.

They both lie down under his blanket.      Silence...

She starts to roll over Julius, then pauses directly

above him and looks him dead in the eye.

Marnie tenses, expecting the worst.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                    112.

Marnie glances heavenward, and silently mouths the words

"thank you." She smiles down at Julius and starts very

gently kissing him.

Linda, dressed in a negligee, comes out of the bathroom

area. Vince, wearing pajamas, is on the floor, legs

curled under the bed, doing sit-ups.

He goes into her arms.

Vince is clearly unnerved by the twin emotional demands

of Linda and meeting his mother.

They kiss.

TWINS - Rev. 6/22/88                                   123.

Julius, who's been quiet and distant throughout, suddenly

intercedes.

TWINS - Rev. 6/22/88                                     124.      *

Vince storms off, gets into the Caddy and squeals away,

throwing Julius's suitcase out the window as he goes.

Linda and Marnie take off after him.

No reaction from Julius.    It's impossible to tell what

he's thinking.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                  124A.

in the Cadillac.   He's driving very fast and is on the

car phone.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                 126.

He drives inside a large warehouse, parks, gets out and

looks warily around. He opens the trunk, unzips the

sleeping bag, revealing the merchandise.

Vince turns to see Beetroot coming out of the warehouse,

accompanied by his BODYGUARD carrying an attache case and

holding a gun. The Bodyguard pats Vince down.

The Bodyguard ignores him, checks out the trunk.

Vince closes his eyes, waiting for the bullet that he

knows is coming. When he opens his eyes the Bodyguard

is holding the attache case open to show him the five

million dollars.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                    127.

Vince takes the case, gazes at the money, snaps it shut.

He can't believe he's pulled it off. Beetroot and the

Bodyguard get into the Cadillac.

The Caddy speeds away while Vince clutches the attache

case to his chest and does a little dance of triumph.

The big score at last! TWO SHOTS RING out. Vince freezes

and sees --

The Cadillac suddenly CRASHES against the side of another

warehouse. It's HORN is BLARING.

WEBSTER

emerges from the shadows with a powerful pump action                *

shotgun. He opens the Caddy and pushes the dead                     *

Bodyguard off the horn.

Beetroot has a hole in his head, as well.

Webster turns and gazes back toward Vince who is sprinting

for safety. Webster calmly goes after him, reloading his

rifle.

It's filled with forklifts, cranes and various forms of

heavy machinery. Webster enters and looks cautiously

around.

VINCE

hiding behind some machinery, scurries deeper into the

bowels of the warehouse.

WEBSTER

moves forward, stalking him.

TWINS - Rev. 5/9/88                                       128.

VINCE

crawling along the ground. He spots an open window up

ahead at the end of the warehouse. Nearer, to his right,

is another window, closed.

Vince picks up a piece of pipe, aims, fires it at the

closed window and as it breaks the glass --

WEBSTER

FIRING at the sound. He can't see Vince but he pours

his fire at the window Vince broke -- large chunks of the              *

BUILDING EXPLODE off wherever Webster fires.                           *

He's reloaded during this -- moving forward as we...

VINCE

crouched near the open window, glancing back at Webster

who has no idea where he is. Noiselessly, he slides out

of the open window, briefcase in hand, starts to run

away --

WEBSTER

moving in on the shattered window.     A bit irritated.

As Webster whirls, looks around --

CLOSE A NEON SIGN

It reads: "The Benedict Corporation." CAMERA PULLS BACK

to reveal we are -- inside Vince's office.                        *

The offices have been redecorated -- they look serious,

professional, and are filled with computer terminals and

other high-tech equipment.

Julius is sorting through a stack of mail while Vince

talks to a prospective client on the phone. Both of

them are wearing suits and ties.

Vince hangs up the phone, loosens his tie.     Julius

excitedly holds up a stack of letters.

The sound of FOOTSTEPS down the corridor, then a

tentative KNOCK at the DOOR.

THE DOOR

As it opens, revealing Mary Anne Benedict, not looking at

all like the gardener they met in Whispering Pines.

VINCE AND JULIUS

Confused, just look at her for a moment.

MARY ANNE

Clearly overwhelmed, struggles to find the appropriate

words.

VINCE AND JULIUS

Look at one another, then at Mary Anne, realizing at

the same time that she's their mother!

THREE OF THEM

Staring at each other in silence, until --

Mary Anne nods.

She nods again.

They both run to Mary Anne and hug her for all she's

worth. They're laughing, crying, holding each other.

Slowly, we...

They both stop the strollers, look down lovingly at their

kids, begin fondling them. Vince and Julius, simultan-

eously flip identical baby rattles and shake them at

their twins.

Vince becomes aware of the condition of his kids'

diapers.

They both start pushing their strollers again.

They both yawn simultaneously once again.

Vince and Julius are sitting on adjoining horses. Linda

and Marnie hand their sons up to them, watched proudly

by Mary Anne.

The merry-go-round starts moving, and the last image we

see is of Vince and Julius on the horses, holding their

twin sons. As they move PAST US, END CREDITS BEGIN TO

ROLL.

