Abby stops flossing and looks at Joy.                                     *

Off Joy's look, we CUT TO...

Sacramento's nicest restaurant. Diners enter and exit.                    *

Abby approaches the FEMALE HOSTESS, at her podium.

She turns, mortified, to see JIM, 30's and good-looking.

Actually, he's better looking in person than in his photo.

Abby gulps.

Abby and a mildly perturbed Jim follow, clearly not off to a

banner start.

Abby and Jim sit at a table. Abby looks around, tense.

He looks at her like she's crazy, as they get up and move.

The waiter is now taking their drink order.

She looks disappointed, then pulls out a piece of paper.

There's an awkward silence between them. She pulls out

another piece of paper, and hands it to him.

As Jim processes this, the waiter arrives with drinks.

He takes a huge sip, relieved. Abby looks at him.

He looks at her, realizing she's a complete nightmare.

Jim and Abby walk to their cars. Jim is walking faster than

she is, trying to get away. She trots along, trying to keep

up.

Jim doesn't even consider refuting this. He just wants to

leave. Abby reaches into her purse and pulls out --                    *

He gets into his car as she hands him his doggy bag.

Abby has officially lost control to the producer part of

herself...she knows what she's doing, but can't stop herself.

Abby takes a pen out and writes a date on the bag.

The bottom of the bag gives out and a container of goopy

leftovers SPILLS all over Jim's lap.

Jim closes the door, catching the hem of Abby's wrap skirt.

The car speeds off -- RIPPING Abby's skirt right off her as

it races away. Abby is left standing in her underwear.

Abby, still in her undies, trudges up the steps. She opens

her front door. Her calico cat D'ARTAGNAN, 9, skeptical and

easily annoyed, stares up at her.

Abby, now in pajamas, flosses her teeth. She hears a noise

coming from her bedroom and looks to see D'Artagnan's paw in

the fish bowl, trying to scoop up a goldfish.

Abby picks up the cat.

Abby picks up the remote, snaps the TV on to "Nightline" with

Brian Williams.

She heads into the bathroom.

As Abby flosses in front of the mirror...

...D'Artagnan hisses at the TV and steps on the remote

control.

ON TV - the channel jumps to a cable access show. MIKE

ALEXANDER, 30's, handsome but not pretty, proudly dressed in

an outfit that costs less than fifty dollars, addresses the

camera.

THE THEME SONG for "The Ugly Truth" kicks in over a series of

past scenes: Mike judo-kicking an giant Oprah doll. Several

posters spelling the word "LOVE" are destroyed by Mike with a

variety of weapons. The theme sequence ends and CUTS TO --

"The Ugly Truth", live on air. The look of the show's set is

low-rent cable TV.

He holds up several books in his hands, reading the titles.

He drops the books on the floor, picks up a can of gasoline

and pours it on the books.

Mike lights a match and tosses it on the books, setting them

ablaze. Then opens up his jacket and takes out a stick with a

marshmallow. Begins roasting the marshmallow on the flame.

Mike shoves a burnt marshmallow into his mouth.

He mimes swallowing.

WE PAN off the television to the bed, where Abby now watches,

appalled.

Mike takes a call.

Mike hangs up the phone.

Abby, now infuriated, picks up the phone and begins dialing.

WE INTERCUT between the stage and her apartment, as Mike

continues his rant.

Mike walks over to a chalk board with the word "LOVE" on it.

He crosses it out and writes "LUST."

Abby is now on the phone.

Irritated, Abby begins to compulsively remake her bed.                 *

Mike scoffs, but he's thrown. He takes a moment, then...

Mike bowls over LAUGHING. Abby realizes she's been had.

She rips the perfectly made bed apart and starts over.                 *

Now Abby's really fuming. She snaps a sheet violently.                 *

As he smiles smugly, Abby SCREAMS and THROWS the phone across

the room. D'Artagnan, terrified, jumps off the bed, which is           *

now in total disarray.                                                 *

Abby and Joy make their way into the conference room. Dori

and Josh are already there.

Stuart walks into the conference room.

He puts a DVD in the player.

ON TV:     Mike's face appears.

Joy looks at Abby.

Abby grabs the remote and turns off the T.V.

Abby holds up a piece of paper.

Stuart takes the memo, reading it.

At this moment, MIKE walks in. Abby stares at him, appalled.

Abby spins to face Stuart.

Abby is pacing, clearly on the verge of hysteria.

A KNOCK. Then the door opens and Mike appears.

Abby glares at him.

He stares at her, surprised.

Abby gags as she pushes past him and walks out.

Abby strides down the hall with Georgia and Larry.

She strides off. Larry looks at Georgia.

Cameras roll as Larry and Georgia sit at the anchor desk.

Mike gives a cocky wave.

Abby and the control room crew watch the proceedings. Cliff

mans the bank of monitors.

We INTERCUT with Georgia, Larry, and Mike on set.

In the control room, Abby smirks.

Abby nervously gnaws on the straw from her Kombucha drink.             *

Cliff shrugs.    Abby is pissed.

On the set, Mike continues his vivisection of Larry and

Georgia.

She starts twisting her straw into shapes, as --                       *

In the control room, Abby looks like she's going to pass out.

Larry grabs Georgia and kisses her hard. After a moment of

resistance, she melts into his arms. The crew goes crazy.

Larry throws Georgia over his back and hauls her off the set.

Abby sinks down into a chair.                                          *

He cuts to BLACK.

It's pitch black. Suddenly a closet door is opened. Joy and

Stuart stand in the doorway.

Abby is sitting in a ball in her closet.

Stuart leaves. Joy turns back to Abby.

Abby closes the closet door on herself.

Mike enters his apartment, throws his keys on the counter and

hits play on his answering machine.

He pushes skip.

Skip.

JONAH, 14, awkward, Mike's nephew, walks in.

Mike's sister, ELIZABETH, 40's, walks in, wearing a nurse's

uniform and holding a cake box.

She hands him the cake box.

She gives him a kiss on the cheek.      He grins.

He opens the box.

He closes the box.

Abby and Joy lie in lawn chairs, drinking margaritas as Joy's          *

husband, KEN, barbecues shrimp kebobs nearby.                          *

Ken looks over.                                                        *

Joy gives her a look.     Abby sighs, realizing the extent of          *

her neuroses.                                                          *

Mike's goofing with the pretty makeup girl, as Abby walks up

to give him some last minute tips.

She fumes, jabbing the earpiece in his ear.

Mike is cut off by Cliff in the booth.

Abby slips out of frame just in time. Mike looks to the

camera.

He crosses to -- a CANDLE-LIT TABLE with a fancy dinner

placed in the center. Several books rest beside it. Beside

the table, a man plays violin.

He picks up a copy of "Ulysses" from the table.

He starts to walk off the set.

Now in the control room, Abby panics.

...Mike exits the stage door and walks into the alley,

followed by the confused camera crew.

He smiles at TWO BLONDE TWINS IN BIKINIS, who wrestle in a

kiddie pool of Jello.

We INTERCUT with the control room.

IN THE ALLEY, a security guard watches the girls, smitten.

Mike smiles to the camera.

As Abby looks horrified, the PHONES in the control room start

RINGING off the hook. Realizing her defeat, Abby sighs.

Abby grabs the microphone for Mike's ear piece...

ON THE MONITOR -- A slightly puzzled look from Mike, but he

lifts the girl's finger and licks the Jello off it.

The camera focuses tightly on his face.

As Mike waves to camera, he's pulled into the Jello pool and

the girls rip off his shirt.

Mike walks in, covered in Jello, to find Abby standing there,

arms crossed, quietly containing her rage.

Abby rubs her temples.

She walks off. Confused by her reaction, he follows.

CLOSE ON Stuart, wearing a grave expression.                           *

Abby nods, uncomfortable. We PULL BACK to REVEAL that she's            *

now the NAKED WEATHER GIRL, sitting behind the anchor desk.            *

Strategically placed cardboard suns and clouds cover her               *

bosom.                                                                 *

Traumatized, she reads off the teleprompter.                           *

Seated next to her, BRIAN WILLIAMS shakes his head,                    *

disappointed.                                                          *

There's a CRASH and we CUT TO --                                       *

On the sofa, Abby BOLTS awake from her nightmare, seeing               *

Juliet's FISH BOWL lying in shattered pieces on the floor.             *

She leaps up, then sees the cat licking his chops.                     *

D'Artagnan bolts out the front door.                                   *

Abby runs through the grounds of the complex looking or

D`Artagnan.

She spots him hiding under a U-Haul, and slowly creeps

towards him.

A car speeds past, honking obnoxiously at Abby. The cat races

away, then climbs up a LARGE TREE beside one of the condos.

Abby sighs and follows.

Abby looks up the tree to see D'Artagnan perched on a branch

above. He MEOWS.

Abby jumps up, grabs a branch and starts to climb.

Abby starts climbing higher, testing branches as she goes.

Finally she reaches the branch he's on.

Abby grabs a branch overhead and scoots down the limb. She

reaches out, picks up the cat and cradles him.

D'Artagnan safely in hand, she looks around and notices she's

just outside a window. She looks in and sees --

A handsome man in a steamy bathroom taking a shower. This is

COLIN ANDERSON.

Abby covers the cat's eyes, then looks away. But a moment

later, she's looking back in the window, to see --

Colin step out of the shower. Abby takes a deep breath as he

crosses to the mirror, giving her a look at his abs.

Abby leans closer to see Colin start flossing, wearing only a

towel.

Suddenly we hear a CRACK, and the branch breaks. Colin looks

out the window and makes eye contact with Abby just as --

D'Artagnan leaps to another branch as Abby falls. As she

plummets, her foot gets caught between some branches, leaving

her now HANGING UPSIDE DOWN.

The front lights SWITCH ON and Colin, still in a towel, races

out of his condo. As he runs up to the tree --

The branch breaks.

Abby FALLS to the ground but --

Colin CATCHES her. But only for a moment.

She DROPS out of his arms and onto the ground. As she goes,

his TOWEL GOES WITH HER. Landing on her face.

She pulls the towel away and looks up, trying not to make eye

contact with the one-eyed trouser snake staring back at her.

Mike plays poker with his     buddies: DWAYNE (30's, chubby),

STEVE (30's, Latino), and     GARY(30's, bespectacled). While

Mike tries to concentrate     on the game, but the guys are more

interested in reading his     fan mail.

Steve looks at the photo.

He passes it to Gary.

Mike rolls his eyes and deals the cards.

Unpacked boxes are stacked everywhere. Classical music plays

on the stereo. Colin, now in sweats and a t-shirt, examines

Abby's ankle.

She glances around the room and sees a bottle of red wine and

a half empty wine glass sitting on a table.

Abby puts on her shoes as Colin opens his wallet and hands

her a card.

Colin picks up the cat, who starts purring.

Abby looks at him, nodding. Delighted at his complete and

utter perfection.

She remains rooted to her spot. He waits a beat then, feeling

awkward, makes a move to open the door.

She walks out and Colin closes the door. Realizing that he

still has the cat in his arms, he opens the door to find --

Abby doing a SPAZZY HAPPY DANCE. Startled, she quickly

composes herself.

He chuckles, hands her D'Artagnan.

He closes the door.

Abby hates herself.

She starts doing a SELF-HATING SPAZZY DANCE, mocking her

previous dance. Just as Colin opens the door again --

She freezes.

She walks off, trying to maintain her dignity.

Abby and Joy walk down the hall towards the set.                         *

Joy looks a little overwhelmed.     They walk onto the set,              *

where --                                                                 *

Mike faces the camera, finishing up his segment.                         *

As they watch, Abby turns to Joy.                                      *

As Abby shakes her head in disgust, a P.A. walks up and hands          *

her a sheet of paper.

Abby and Joy study them.                                               *

Mike approaches them.

She turns and walks off.

Abby walks down the corridor. She turns the corner and comes

face to face with Mike.

Abby enters her office. Mike follows her.

Abby takes Colin's card from her wallet, dials a number,

then --

Abby shoots Mike a snide grin.

Colin, in a white doctor's jacket, talks on the phone while

going over patient files.

We INTERCUT.

Mike picks up the extension and listens in. Abby glares at

him, but she can't stop him.

Mike shakes his head, knowing where this is going.

Mike snatches the phone from Abby and hangs it up.

She moves to pick up the phone. Mike sits on the phone to

stop her.

A concerned look from Abby as...the phone rings. Her caller

I.D. says SACRAMENTO MED.                                              *

She thinks, looks at the phone again...

She answers the phone.

A confused look from Colin as he talks on the phone.

We INTERCUT.

Abby hesitates. Mike shoves her.

Mike puts the phone on hold.

A long pause.

They stare each other down. Then Mike looks at his watch.

The phone light is still blinking.

Mike hangs up the phone.

The phone RINGS again.

He hustles her out of the room. A moment after the door

closes, Mike rushes back in and hangs up the ringing phone.

He smiles, then bolts.

Dial tone. Colin hangs up the phone.

Abby and Mike walk down the street.

Abby giggles. Mike is struck by the sound of her laughter.

He raises an eyebrow, impressed.

Mike and Abby wait for their lattes.

Mike and Abby walk along, coffees in hand.

With that, a MONTAGE BEGINS...

Mike and Abby wander through the racks of lingerie.

Abby looks down at her breasts, curiously.

A SALESWOMAN passes them.

The saleswoman looks disturbed, but hands him a push-up water

bra.

Abby glares at him as we CUT TO --

Abby, wearing high heels, awkwardly makes her way over to

Mike.

She falls, KNOCKING OVER a large display of shoes.

Abby sits at a rinse chair, while Mike and the HAIRDRESSER

study her look.

The hairdresser shoves her head under the sink and douses her

with water.

Night has fallen on the condo complex.

Mike avoids the cat while waiting in the living room.

Abby enters, looking amazing in a little black dress and

sling backs. Her hair and make-up are sexy but not trashy.

Abby opens a drawer and takes out some glasses. She puts them

on.

She grabs his ass.

Switching tactics, Abby slips into seductress mode, tracing

her finger up and down his arm.

She seductively leans into him.

She gives him a look.

She leans in closer.

He shoves her away.

Just then, the doorbell RINGS.

Mike leaps over the couch and hides. As Abby walks over to

the door and opens it. Colin stands there.

She hustles him out the door.

Colin bangs on the door.

Mike pops up from under the couch. He gives her the thumbs

up.

She looks at Mike in amazement, then breaks into the happy

dance. He watches, horrified at her spazziness.

As she continues to dork out, we CUT TO --

The ROAR of the crowd at the Lobos game.

Colin walks with Abby, who adjusts something in her ear. Now

she's wearing the earpiece from the station, and on the other

end...

MIKE'S POV THROUGH BINOCULARS -- A different angle of Abby

walking down the aisle.

BINOCULARS POV -- Abby nods.

Colin looks at Abby and smiles as they take their seats,               *

popcorn in hand.                                                       *

We INTERCUT with Mike.

Abby does something between a nod and shaking her head. Colin

hooks at her, confused.

Abby is baffled but proceeds to laugh awkwardly. Colin looks

at her.

Feeling a popcorn kernel in her teeth, Abby takes out her              *

floss.                                                                 *

Abby freezes.                                                          *

She puts the floss back in her purse.                                  *

She dramatically tosses her hair from one side to the other.

Abby realizes she's spoken aloud.

A FAN calls to Mike.

Mike gestures for the fan to leave him alone as he continues

to instruct Abby.

Mike waves him off, trying to remain focused on Abby.

The fan throws peanuts at Mike. Mike turns around and shouts

at the fan.

Abby blanches, waiting for Mike instructions.

Colin is now just staring at her.

She points to the only nearby female -- an Elderly Obese Hot

Dog Lady.

There's an awkward moment as Colin hands her the hot dog.

Repulsed, she flinches, losing control of her drink, DUMPING

it into Colin's lap. He flinches.

She grabs a napkin and starts rubbing his khakis.

She puts some muscle into it.

Unbeknownst to them, the batter hits a pop fly near them.

THE JUMBOTRON CAMERA follows the guy catching the fly, then

finds Abby and Colin. PANS over to them and --

It looks like Abby is giving Colin an enthusiastic HAND JOB.

The ENTIRE STADIUM, ballplayers included, stop what they're

doing and stare.

She smiles at Colin. As he looks nervously up at the

JUMBOTRON.

Abby follows his gaze -- and sees SHE'S ON IT. Everyone at

the stadium is looking at her. The organ player bangs out

"Charge." The stadium starts WHOOPING and HOLLERING.

Abby is getting a citation from a self-righteous POLICE

OFFICER.

He hands her a ticket and walks off.

Colin walks a defeated Abby to her door.

NEARBY, Mike watches this, unseen and impassive.

Mike looks worried.

He smiles, amused.

Mike rolls his eyes.

She starts to walk away when Colin stops her, grabbing her

arm and pulling her in for a kiss.

Colin gives a wave and walks toward his condo. Abby pretends

to enter her house until she sees Colin close his front door.

Then, she turns around and rushes over to --

MIKE. She throws her arms around him, embracing him.

Mike pulls back, a little uncomfortable.

Abby puts her key in the door.

Abby rolls her eyes with a smile and goes inside. As Mike is

walking away, he turns back for a moment, then keeps walking.

Jonah and Mike sit on the couch, playing "Fight Night."

Elizabeth enters, wearing a pair of sweats and carrying her

laptop. She hands Mike a digital camera.

She holds up her laptop. Mike peers at it.

Jonah holds out his hand to his mom.

A cage of randy Bonobos getting it on. Mike, in a gorilla

suit, does a segment. Next to him is an anthropologist, DR.

LESTER.

He winks at the camera as --

NEARBY

Abby watches.       Mike walks over to join her.

He starts pulling off his gorilla suit as he heads for the

van. Abby follows him.

Mike throws her a look. Abby catches on.

Abby looks away haughtily.                                         *

Abby opens the door to find a gift bag on her doorstep, with

a card that reads: "This present isn't for you. It's for your

bean. Love Mike."

Abby sits on the couch staring at a box of ELECTRIC

UNDERWEAR.

She opens the box, dumping out a pair of underwear and a

REMOTE CONTROL. When she turns on the remote the underwear

VIBRATES, startling her. She turns it off.

Abby checks herself out in the mirror. Now in the underwear.

She downs a glass of wine, sits on the bed and picks up the

remote. She turns it on. Nothing happens. She tries again.

Nothing.

Abby smacks the remote a few times. The DOORBELL rings.

Abby quickly throws on her skirt and hurries toward the

living room.

Abby heads toward the door, but quickly realizes she's still

holding the remote. She tosses it in her purse, then opens

the door.

Mike stands there out of breath, dressed in a suit.

Abby thinks a moment, then --

Colin opens the door to find Abby standing there.

Mike pops out from behind Abby.

As Colin looks confused, we CUT TO --

Mike's driving. In the passenger seat, Abby turns to Colin,

who sits in the back.

As Abby, Mike and Colin walk into the bar, two buxom blonde

twin JELLO GIRLS, BAMBI and CANDI, rush up to Mike.

She leans over and displays her cleavage.

She tries to control her displeasure, as Stuart walks in with

two guys in suits, BOB and HAROLD, in their 50's.

They slap him on the back, eyeing the twins.

The group sits down at the table.

UNDER THE TABLE

Abby tries to kick Mike. As she does, she unwittingly knocks

over her purse. The contents spill out and the REMOTE for

her vibrating underwear rolls away, stopping UNDER THE TABLE

NEXT TO THEM.

AT THE NEXT TABLE

A PRECOCIOUS KID, 8, sits with his parents. Bored out of his

skull. When the remote rolls under his feet, the kid picks

it up and flicks the switch. A small RED LIGHT turns on.

AT ABBY'S TABLE

As Harold and Bob laugh, Stuart slaps Mike on the back.

Abby turns to Bob and Harold.

Suddenly, her smile quickly changes to horror.

She shifts in her seat, trying to control her NOW-VIBRATING

UNDERWEAR.

She leans down to grab her purse.

UNDER THE TABLE

She pokes her head under the table to see that the contents

of her purse have spilled. Mike's head appears next to hers.

Mike starts laughing.

She writhes again, hitting her head on the bottom of the

table.

AT THE TABLE

Stuart watches, worried, as Abby rises from underneath the

table, clutching her head and looking around frantically,

trying to figure out who has the remote.

AT THE NEXT TABLE

The kid has flicked up the speed on the remote even higher.

Abby's eyes roll back. She looks like she's on three hits of

ecstasy.

She starts to get up when Stuart stops her.

Abby glares at Mike and sits back down.

As she fumbles, Mike spots the kid at the next table, remote

in hand. He starts to get up but --

Abby grabs Mike's arm, yanking him back down, in the throes

of panic and pleasure.

She looks into his eyes, imploring.

Candi looks at Harold, intrigued by Abby's display.

As Stuart frowns, concerned, Abby spasms, then rushes through

it as fast as she can.

She leaps to her feet.

Then she sinks back down, spent. Harold and Bob applaud, as

do the twins. Relieved, Stuart turns to Bob and Harold.

As they all walk out, Mike grabs the remote from the kid.

Abby spots this and snatches the remote out of Mike's hand.

She shoots him a look.

Stuart schmoozes with Harold, Bob, Bambi and Candi at the

valet stand. Abby and Mike exit the restaurant.

Colin walks up.

Harold and Bob shake hands with Mike.

They take off with the twins.     Mike turns to Abby and Colin.

Mike's truck pulls up and he gets in.

He drives away. Abby smiles at Colin, as a punk rock version

of "Getting To Know You" PLAYS and a MONTAGE BEGINS...

Colin and Abby ride the tram up the mountain, snuggling.

Abby and Colin are watching "TO CATCH A THIEF." Colin puts

his arm around Abby.

Abby grins, pleased.

Mike's on set rehearsing with a HOT GIRL next to him. NEARBY,

Abby gets flowers delivered. Mike tries not to be distracted

by Abby's delighted expression as she reads the card.

At the counter, Abby introduces Colin to Joy. As Colin turns

away to get his latte, Joy falls to the ground in a MOCK

SWOON. Colin sees this and, concerned, rushes to help Joy up.

Mike stands at the sports bar with Dwayne, Steve and Gary, as

a DRUNK GUY praises Mike.

Just then a CUTE BRUNETTE in a tight t-shirt and ridiculously

gynormous implants walks up.

Steve clinks his beer bottle against Mike's.

Mike sips his beer, looking a bit wary of his powers.

A waiter takes Colin and Abby's order.

She starts to say something, then smiles at the waiter.

Colin smiles at her as THE MONTAGE ENDS.

A sign on the upscale bar window advertises "Happy Hour --

Ladies Drink For Half Price."

Mike has a beer and enjoys the scenery as Abby sits across

from him at their table, making notes.

He doesn't answer.

Mike isn't even listening. He's watching a trashy redhead at

the bar. Abby notices.

Mike holds up a glass.

On set, Mike addresses the camera.

NEARBY, a confused Joy looks at Abby.

Abby doesn't know weather to be pleased or worried.

AT THE ANCHOR DESK

Larry turns to the camera.

Georgia winks at him.

Abby rolls her eyes as Mike walks up.

At this, a slick AGENT in a suit, 30's, walks up and slaps

Mike on the shoulder.

Mike is stunned.

Abby looks at the agent, confused.

They walk off as Abby stands there.

Abby runs a programming meeting. Joy, Dori, Josh, Georgia and

Larry are in attendance.

Stuart pokes his head in.

She rises and goes out into the hall.

Abby frowns at Stuart's serious expression.

An airplane lands at LAX.

A pissed Abby sits in the cab, having a conversation with

herself.

The CAB DRIVER looks at her.

Mike walks out of the lobby, as Abby gets out of a cab,

suitcase in hand.

Abby glares at him, about to show her true feelings, but then

quickly covers. Smiling.

Abby and Mike sit in the backseat.      Abby looks down at her

notes.

Mike studies her.

Abby rolls her eyes, still angry with him.

Abby sits there, fuming that he's right.

A "Tonight Show" handler in a headset readies a visibly

nervous Mike backstage. Mike's Agent stands next to him,

giving him a pep talk as Abby watches skeptically.

Mike shoots him a "shut up" look. Abby pretends not to

notice.

Mike looks at her, surprised.

She smiles at him. Looking a little calmer, he smiles back

at Abby. The Agent rolls his eyes. The handler gives Mike

the nod, as we HEAR --

The audience applauds as Mike takes a deep breath and heads

on stage.

Abby now sits in the audience, watching as Jay interviews

Mike on stage.

The audience reacts with hollers and cheers. Abby shakes her

head.

Mike looks a bit taken aback, but recovers quickly.

Abby cocks her head, intrigued by Mike's reaction.

He hesitates, then looks at Abby for a moment. She gives him

an encouraging nod. He gains confidence, and continues.

Jay looks stricken, going along with the bit.

The audience laughs, as we CUT TO --

Stuart flips off the TV, talking on his cell phone.

Abby talks on the phone.

She hangs up as Mike and his Agent approach.

They walk off.    Abby fumes -- then does her self hating

spazzy dance.

A festive Cuban place in Hollywood with a live salsa band and

a floor full of SEXY PATRONS salsa dancing.

Abby sits at a table, waiting anxiously. As Mike walks in,

she waves him over.

Abby's surprised, then suspicious.

The waiter arrives with mojitos. Abby looks at him.

He looks at her, surprised, then --

Abby sips her mojito, studying Mike.

Mike sighs, deciding to level with her.

Just then, the waitress walks up.

She nods and leaves. Abby stares at him.

He stands up.

Abby looks out at the dance floor, seeing that even the worst

dancers are great.

Mike grabs her hand and leads her onto --

Mike and Abby make their way onto the crowded dance floor.

Abby looks at him, sure that he's about to make a fool of

them both.

Then, he takes her in his arms, completely self-assured, and

starts leading her in a salsa dance and...

...he's good. But not just good. Great.

She follows his moves, half-shocked and half-turned on. He

pulls her in a bit closer, and for the first time, she allows

herself to be led without trying to control the situation.

For about five seconds.          Then she looks at her watch.

Mike and Abby ride up the elevator.

There's a moment of uncomfortable silence.

The elevator comes to a stop.

They hug. It's long hug. They give a quick kiss.

Neither lets go. They give a longer kiss.

Mike starts out the elevator, then returns, grabbing Abby.

And suddenly --

They're ALL OVER EACH OTHER.

In the midst of this, the elevators try to close but their

furious groping blocks it, until --

A shrill BUZZING begins. They abruptly step apart staring at

each other.

Mike backs out of the elevator, looking shell-shocked. The

doors close. Abby is flushed and stunned.

Abby sinks down onto her bed, wearing the same expression.

There's a KNOCK at the door. She leaps up, smooths her hair,

checks her reflection, and goes to the door. Opening it with

a smile, she finds --

Standing there, bottle of red wine in hand, is... Colin.

It takes a moment for Abby to adjust.

He walks in the room, holding up the wine.

As he opens the wine, some of it splashes on his shirt.

Mike approaches Abby's door.

He turns and walks the other direction. Then stops and turns

back.

He KNOCKS on Abby's door. After a second it opens and --

There's Colin, standing there SHIRTLESS.

Mike reels, trying to cover his shock.

Abby appears behind Colin.

He turns and goes.

Mike walks down the hall, freaked out and perturbed. Abby

runs to catch up with him.

He keeps walking as she tries to keep up.

He stops and looks at her.

He starts to walk off.

They hold eye contact for a very long moment.

Mike looks away.

A lot.    But he's not saying it.

He shrugs and walks off.

Abby enters the room.       Colin stands there, still shirtless.

He pours her a glass of wine.

Abby takes the glass and drinks.      And keeps drinking.

Abby finishes the glass and looks at him.

Abby smiles, pleased, then he continues...

Abby's smile fades.

Abby looks at him, nodding, then --

She looks around.

Taxis drop off tourists.

Abby paces in front of the gate and checks her watch, while

talking on her cell phone.

She hangs up the phone. A FLIGHT ATTENDANT approaches her.

Resigned, she picks up her bag and walks on board.

Abby walks into the station, greeting the security guard.

