Rev. 4/9/99

FADE IN:

A slight breeze gently sways the green and purple crop.

The CHIRP of CICADA is the only sound.

SUPERIMPOSE:   1868 - ST. TAMMANY PARISH, LOUISIANA

But suddenly the CHIRPING GETS LOUDER and LOUDER --

BZZZZZ! -- until we realize it's not the cicadas, but

a --

SWOOOSH! A lethal, razor-sharp DISC BUZZES up over the

horizon, swoops TOWARD the CAMERA and OUT OF FRAME!

The CAMERA SPINS AROUND to see the disc flying away,

chasing a man, THADDEUS MORTON, wearing a strange

metallic collar -- exhausted, horrified, about to die.

NEW ANGLE - MORTON

He looks over his shoulder, panting -- he's been running

forever.

Morton zig-zags through a grove of trees, a desperate

attempt to avoid the horrible serrated disc. But the

ruse is futile. The disc goes straight through the

trees, slicing a path straight as the crow flies.

NEW ANGLE - OLD WAGON

dilapidated, broken down, weathering away in the field.

Morton runs around the wagon -- but the DISC BUZZES

straight through the sideboards! Wood shavings spit

everywhere! There's no stopping this thing.

NEW ANGLE - MORTON

running for his life -- stops, turns. He turns,

incomprehensibly mumbling, pleading for his life,

cowering.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                                2.

And the DISC SWOOSHES TOWARD the CAMERA -- BZZZZZZZ!

BLACK

NIGHT SKY FULL OF STARS - LOW ANGLE

A man leans INTO FRAME. This is GENERAL McGRATH.      And

he's there to collect the silver death disc.

HOOVES THUNDER by. Then bouncing, skidding wagon wheels.

Up on the empty buckboard is a pair of murderous ex-Rebs.

As the Rebs pass a pint of whisky, lash the six-horse

team on, PAN WITH the wagon to see it's headed for...

WEST is bathing with the beatiful SALOON GIRL.

She moves in and kisses him, long and hard. West hears

the CLATTER of the APPROACHING WAGONS. He stops the

kiss and peeks out the knothole.

Down below, West sees the wagon with the Rebs.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                             4A.

The HORSES SPOOK as a crate is dropped onto the wagon.

CLOSE - AXLE

caught on the WATER TOWER LEG.    It CREAKS.

West hears the CREAK.    He breaks the kiss.

The tower starts to topple.

It CRASHES...

West crashes down into the tarp covering the boxes. The

only people more shocked than he is are the guards and

the Rebs he just dropped in on. West picks himself up,

smiles coolly at the drenched slack-jaws.

He looks up at the freaked-out Saloon Girl, still in the

tank. She hangs on with one hand, the other hand

clutches his clothes.

She responds by Frisbee-ing his hat down. West picks it

up, with a look... uses it to cover his genitals.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                           4B.

But he never gets that word out. Bang! West lashes a

lightning martial arts kick to the Reb's jaw.

As the other Reb comes at him, he spins, still holding

the hat in front of him... and whap! Down that one goes.

West looks up at the none-too-bright water tank woman.

As she throws the rest of his clothes down in a heap...

General McGrath checks a pocket watch, looks up

impatiently at the Indian, Hudson. His eyes drift

upwards... to the balcony where...

ANGLE ON UPSTAIRS BALCONY - TWO MORE EX-REBS

have come up back stairs lugging a heavy steamer trunk.

McGrath subtly gestures with his eyes to the balcony for

Hudson to confirm. Hudson nods.

Hudson quickly cuts him off before he can say the name.

The Indian speaks in a very precise King's English.

MOVE IN ON an elegant brougham driven by a very large,

very striking woman in livery.

As the carriage passes under the gas lamp, we can make

out the top-hatted silhouette of McGrath's "employer,"

DR. ARLISS LOVELESS. Clustered around him inside the cab

are three more beautiful women. As he strokes the cheek

of the ORIENTAL one with the back of his hand like a

cat...

McGrath looks to the singer (Rita), who beats a hasty

retreat from him after her song. So, once again, McGrath

lays his rheumy eyes on...

ANGLE ON SOILED DOVE

She's oblivious, more intrigued by the ex-Rebs on the

balcony with the trunk. As she starts for the stairs...

a man's hand grabs her. It's the Eye-Crossed Reb again.

She tries to pull away.    But the Reb won't let go.

Suddenly the coquettishness in the eyes becomes rage.

The falsetto becomes a baritone growl.

Just as the Reb registers the odd new voice... wham!    Her

corsage springs out and whacks him right in the jaw.    The

Reb's eyes roll back... and he slumps to the ground.

Whooa, hoss... the Soiled Dove is a man! He's ARTEMUS

GORDON and his true profession will be revealed to us

shortly. But now, as he/she stashes the unconscious Reb

behind the bar, straightens bosom and wig...

West is trying to get dressed.

As he pulls on one leg of his pants, a guard lunges at

him with a knife. West hops up on one leg, smacks the

guy with a mule kick.

Now he puts his arm through his shirt sleeve. When the

hand emerges out of the cuff, it's balled in a fist --

which coldcocks the other guard.

As if in response, the water tower, still hovering above,

now crashes to the floor -- obliterating his opponents.

He calmly looks up in time to catch the falling, naked,

screaming Saloon Girl in his arms.

West gallantly puts her down, jumps up, grabs the

overhead block and tackle system and slides through the

warehouse. As the HORSE TEAM, which has spooked,

THUNDERS past...

CLOSEUP - WEST

sails onto the runaway wagon. As he pulls himself into

the back, he gives the shivering Saloon Girl a tip of his

hat -- now on his head.

General McGrath   leers down a line-up of Fat-Can's girls.

Just as he gets   to the beautiful singer, who looks sick

at the thought,   suddenly Gordon intrudes. He/she blocks

out the singer,   poses coquettishly -- sucking a

lollypop.

Gordon/Dora starts to go as the Eye-Crossed Reb wakes up.

He grabs him/her, very pissed.

Blam! McGrath emphasizes his claim by gut-shooting the

Reb. The shot makes Dora/Gordon jump and the room go

quiet. As the Reb crumples, McGrath turns back to

Gordon/Dora, oddly inspired.

McGrath hauls him/her over to the piano player.

He punctuates with a slap to Gordon/Dora's rump.      The

other singer (Rita) watches too.

Gordon/Dora is sweating. Reluctantly, he/she whispers

something to the piano player. He clears his throat and

begins singing.

West spots the contents of an open box.    Eyes widen.

CLOSE - BOX - DOZEN GLASS VIALS

stuck in sand. But clinking together ominously as the

wagon races over the cobblestones.

West tries to steady the glass vials with his hands...

but it's no use. He quickly climbs over the boxes, onto

the buckboard seat. But the reins are dragging on the

ground beneath the frothing horses.

West leaps onto the horses as the wagon careens down the

street. He pulls himself over the first one's neck...

onto the next horse. And as he tries for the lead horse,

he falls between them!

Gordon/Dora singing. He/she struggles through the song

in a very tough room.

Just when it looks like the stone-faced rowdies might rip

him/her apart, McGrath starts tapping a mud-caked toe.

Encouraged, Gordon/Dora belts out the next verses OVER...

West's custom boots drag in the dirt as he's about to be

trampled under the hooves of the freaked-out horses. And

if he hasn't got enough problems, the lynch pin attaching

the team to the wagon has almost worked its way out.

CLOSE - BACK OF WAGON - NITRO VIALS

CLANKING together like chimes...

CLOSE - WEST

Straining with every ounce of strength in his body, he

pulls himself up by the harness onto...

CLOSE - WILD-EYED LEAD HORSE

West grabs for the halter.

But it doesn't whoa. The wagon goes around a corner up

on two wheels! It's about to tilt over when West grabs

both the horses' ears, yanks them back -- screaming into

them.

This approach seems to work.

The team comes to an abrupt stop... and with it the wagon

hanging over the edge of a steep drop.

Jim carefully climbs off. He slaps the dust on his

jacket, straightens the crease in his trousers. When he

looks up, a bitter smile.

HIS POV - VICTORIAN BUILDING - ACROSS STREET

The tasteful sign under the red light reads: "FAT-CAN

CANDY'S." And framed in the window, General McGrath with

his singing soiled dove.

McGrath is clapping with the crowd of misfits who are now

singing along with Gordon/Dora. He/she's won over the room.

He/she curtsies to rousing applause. McGrath beams like

a man with the fire in his loins roaring. He grabs his

little songbird and up the stairs they go.

Out the WINDOWS, we see West tracking them.    Simul-

taneously going up outside steps.

leads the sweating, leering General down the hall.

He/she quickly opens and closes boudoir doors --

ostensibly to find a free room for their assignation.

The real agenda is to find the mysterious trunk.

ANGLE ON DOORWAY #1

Quick peek. He/she registers a mild reaction of shock.

Closes that door and moves on to...

ANGLE ON DOORWAY #2

Quick peek. The two rebs sitting on the trunk. At their

feet is a wriggling burlap sack. The "merchandise" is alive.

Gordon/Dora giggles like a schoolgirl.

McGrath slams the door, drags Gordon/Dora roughly...

Our soiled dove has her back to the door as if steeling

herself for the task at hand. McGrath beckons her over

to the bed.

Gordon/Dora squints at the jerry-rigged ear.

Say no more. McGrath is on her like a flash, fidgeting

with it. But it pops open, revealing a spiraling screen

courtesy of Dr. Mesmer. His eyes lock onto it.

McGrath sits on the floor.        Gordon smiles... this is

gonna be easy.

But McGrath doesn't answer. Gordon's Mesmer spiral slows

to a stop. McGrath is coming out of the trance. McGrath

starts to growl, rip at his/her petticoats.

As Gordon notices that his contraption's failed...

is busy trying to get the spiral going again, doesn't see

McGrath reach for his boot knife. Just as the deranged

general's about to plunge it into Gordon/Dora...

... the WINDOW EXPLODES. Jim West comes tumbling into

the room, kicks the knife out of McGrath's hand in one

smooth move. West rolls to his feet, fixes a gallant

smile on Gordon/Dora.

It takes Gordon a moment to recover. He stares at this

black Samaritan, obviously having no clue who he is.

West quickly pats McGrath down, removes a revolver and

his bag of gold coins.

As West sticks the barrel of his gun in McGrath's

gramophone ear, Gordon's eyes pop.

Gordon jerks West's gun hand away from McGrath's head

just as the dog-soldier comes around. McGrath suddenly

lunges at him.

He drives his full weight into Jim's back, pushing him out

into...

McGrath's rebel yell brings help from all directions.

DOORS BANG open all along the hallway. Not just

McGrath's men, but Hudson and his crew. A melee will

ensue.

West pushes the monster off of him, rolls as a BULLET

SPLINTERS the WOOD where he just was. The SHOT STARTS...

ANGLE - STAMPEDE OF SEMI-CLAD WHORES

all screaming hysterically and heading for the exits.

The beautiful young singer, who'd been coming up the

stairs alone, is now swept back down them.

Gordon, still in character, pushes his way upstream to the

room where the scientist is held.

Hudson, his back turned, barking orders at his henchmen.

The henchmen heft the wriggling sack, when:

Hudson whirls to see the gruff-talking Gordon/Dora holding

the perfume bottle on him like it's a Colt 45. Now Gordon

shakes one of the heavy bracelets off his wrist, CLICKS a

LOCK, snapping it open. He's accessorized with custom

handcuffs.

Hudson gives a sick little smile, reaches for his gun

when... WSSSSHT!

Gordon sprays him in the eyes with the second bulb of the

atomizer. (The first Mace!) Hudson howls in pain, drops

the gun, rubs his eyes madly with both hands.

Gordon starts to snap the cuffs on the perfectly

presented wrists when...

brawling a dozen attackers. West spots McGrath trying to

escape down the stairs. He uncorks a lethal kick, sending

a thug flying through the doorway and into the back of

Gordon.

Gordon staggers, drops the perfume/mace BOTTLE which

SHATTERS. Hudson recovers his vision enough to send a

fist into Gordon's mascaraed face, pile-driving him back

into the hall. While Hudson and his men make their

escape down the back stairs with the scientist sack...

CLOSE - WEST AND GORDON

West is blocked from chasing McGrath, Gordon from going

after Hudson. West tries to push her aside.

Gordon whip off his wig, reaches inside it for something.

West blinks at the weirdness, reflexively draws his Colt.

As Gordon withdraws not a gun, but a badge, from his

wig...

is waiting at the top of the hill beside the nitro wagon.

Dr. Loveless is beside it, face still shadowed.

INSIDE CARRIAGE - FAIR-SKINNED BEAUTY

has opera glasses trained on the second story of Fat-

Can's. Her name is LIPPENREIDER. And now we'll see why.

The lip-reading is interrupted by the arrival of...

ANGLE - TOP OF INCLINE - HUDSON AND HIS HENCHMEN

who come racing up with the scientist-in-the-sack.

His cane telescopes out and Loveless pokes the lynch pin

out of the harness on the nitro wagon. Then he gives the

wagon the slightest push.

Once started, the wagon rolls downhill, toward the back

door of Fat-Can Candy's, picking up speed...

Then, as his female coterie pulls the burlap sack into

the carriage, Loveless steps in behind. And they're off.

West and Gordon, oblivious to the impending disaster...

The answer is provided as the NITRO WAGON hits

downstairs.

KABOOOOOOM!!!    THEME MUSIC UP... as we roll...

The titles are the familiar animated freeze frames from

the TV show. In the two corners are our heroes -- Upper

left shows West with his gun levelled toward... upper

right -- Gordon with his wig in one hand and his badge in

the other, pointed across toward West.

The cowboy/agent in the middle square fights and defeats

the various bad guys. Then as he exits, QUICK ZOOM ON

main title: "THE WILD WILD WEST."

PAN DOWN TO a sketch of a train caboose as TITLES END...

West rides his magnificent black stallion down

Pennsylvania Avenue.

Besides horse-drawn carriages, West shares the dusty road

with people on bicycles -- the latest craze. He finally

pulls his steed up at his destination...

EXT. WHITE HOUSE - DAY

West dismounts, ties his horse to a hitching post and

winces as he puts his weight on a sore leg.

West limps past black floor scrubbers. They stop working

to marvel at this handsome black man dressed in custom

cowboy duds walking in there like he owns the place.

But not everybody's so impressed. As West heads toward

the Oval Office, four self-important house detectives

block his way.

He nods at the six gun on West's hip. West coolly flexes

his hand above it, like he's about to draw...

Then like lightning, with his other hand, he whips out a

sawed-off shotgun hidden by his jacket. He pokes the

12-gauge barrels up against Pinkerton's surprised crotch.

A voice stops the situation from escalating further.

The detective's head swivels around to see...

ANGLE - OVAL OFFICE DOOR - PRESIDENT GRANT

stands in the doorway.

The detectives back away from the hair-trigger cowboy as

fast as they can. West reholsters the gun and

continues...

President Grant goes over to his desk, lights a cigar.

Backlit in the haze, the portly bearded figure lives up

to the myth.

West limps across the room to the bar, pours himself a

glass of whiskey, takes a cigar out of the humidor.

Now West's blood is up.

West just looks at him soberly. Draws his gun and

places it against the President's head. Grant's eyes

widen.

West points the GUN to the ceiling and pulls the trigger.

BLAM!!! As Grant jumps a foot and plaster rains down...

West lowers his gun, nods at Gordon's class ring.

PRESIDENT GRANT - DAY

(the real one) stands in the doorway, hands on hips,

surrounded by his house detectives -- their guns drawn.

West nudges the fake Grant in the fake belly with his gun

barrel -- go ahead. Sheepishly, Gordon starts peeling

off his primitive, but effective, facial prosthetics.

Just as Gordon makes his intestinal allusion, West takes

a ceremonial bayonet off Grant's desk and pokes a hole in

the inflated bladder that was his fake paunch. The AIR

HISSES out, finishes deflating with a flatulent R-R-RIP.

(Hey, the first whoopee cushion?)

Gordon scowls at him.

West smirks as Grant looks up at the bullet hole in the

ceiling, then fixes West with a disapproving eye.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                          21.

Grant turns and EXITS FRAME.

The place is a buzzing intelligence operations center --

state-of-the-art for the 1860's. Maps of the U.S. and

the world are on the wall. Various staff and military

people work CLACKING TELEGRAPHS, PRINTING MACHINES that

GRIND out reports, etc.

Grant stops at a display of daguerreotype photos, all

depicting distinguished bewhiskered men.

The detectives snicker over that one.    Grant's had

enough.

Grant holds out a letter to Gordon and West.      Gordon

snatches it, reads:

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                       21A.

An aide presents a glass case.     Inside is a cake in the

shape of the White House.

Suddenly dozens of deadly-looking spiders swarm out from

inside the cake. Gordon jerks his hand back.

Grant's had enough.

Grant points to a map of the United States. The railroad

lines have been drawn in... still a gap between them.

They both return Grant's salute as the President stomps

off. His AIDE now approaches.

Gordon takes the box, hurries to catch up with West.

West and Gordon, walking toward the hitching post. West

is so beside himself he can barely untie his high-voltage

stud. He glowers at Gordon who goes over to where...

ANGLE - STRANGE-LOOKING BICYCLE

Is parked on the other side of a bush. It has the

customary big wheel in the front, little wheel in the

back. (Hidden from sight is a motor on the front tire.

Dual manifolds that sling under the rider's legs.)

West shakes his head in disgust.

West swings into the saddle. He looks at the SNORTING

wild HORSE under him, then down at Gordon attaching the

box onto the seat of his Nitro-whatever.

West spurs his horse and leaves Gordon in the proverbial

cloud of dust.

Although West's intentions are clear, for some reason,

Gordon's in no particular hurry. He sighs, climbs on the

bike, takes out a hankie and cleans a pair of goggles.

Then, finally ready...

VROOOM! An ENGINE KICKS IN and Gordon rockets forward.

(Yep, Artemus has invented the first motorcycle!) Fiery

exhaust blasts out of the manifolds as the bike propels

him down the street at about 60 mph right past...

ANGLE ON WEST AND HIS STALLION

who both look over in wide-eyed shock. The horse rears

as Gordon SCREAMS by -- leaving them in a cloud of

internal combustion.

From in front, as it CHUGS TOWARDS us. Sitting up in the

spanking new steam engine (No. 5) is a white-haired

Coleman. The Wanderer is his pride and joy. Coleman

pushes the throttle forward and the ENGINE ROARS PAST

us... followed by a tender, and two gleaming passenger

cars.

Then comes West THUNDERING past in a desperate effort to

catch up.

ANGLE - WITH WEST

riding like hell. Getting the last ounce of speed out of

his well-lathered steed, he finally pulls alongside the

rear passenger car. He looks up... In the window, we see

Gordon engrossed in what he's doing... which appears to

be sewing.

If Gordon hears him, he pretends not to.    He just

casually makes the next stitch.

West's horse has had it. They're losing ground to the

train. At the last second, West leans over at full

gallop and grabs a handle on the side of the train. He

swings out of the saddle, hanging on for dear life,

blowing in the breeze like laundry.

Finally, his boot finds a small metal plate to put its

weight on. Just as West stands safely on it... whoosh!

He flies up in the air and drops through a sliding

partition in the roof.

The car is like a classy Victorian men's club. Bar

stocked with crystal decanters, a pool table, decorative

pistols on the wall, books, etc. Gordon, seated in a

club chair, looks over as West falls from the ceiling

into a seat. He's hot, dusty and very pissed off. He

glowers at Gordon murderously.

He takes off jacket, starts rolling up his sleeves.

Gordon remains remarkably cool, continues sewing.

He shows him some real needlepoint.

West draws his gun, aims it at Gordon's stomach and cocks

the trigger.

Gordon quickly pulls the vest away from his stomach.

West takes off his guns and puts them on the table.

Gordon puts down The Impermeable, stands with a weary

sigh.

Whap! West unleashes a lightning punch that drives

Gordon across the train car. He dabs at his bloody lip.

Then to West's utter amazement, Gordon puts his hands

together as if praying while at the same time, crooking

his right leg stork-like. Is this some kind of martial

art? Then, he bends at the waist, and like a ballet

dancer, extends his leg out to the wall and flips a

switch.

It immediately triggers a leather hammer to swing down

from the ceiling. It whacks West on the side of the

head, and sends him spinning back onto the pool table.

ANGLE ON POOL TABLE - WEST

shakes it off and is about to attack again. Gordon

calmly pokes a hidden button. Suddenly the pool table

revolves. West is gone.

West, eyes wide, is clinging on for dear life, staring at

the ties racing by, inches from his face.

Gordon pours a fine Bordeaux, speaks loudly toward floor.

As he swishes the wine in his mouth...

West reaches up to get a handhold in the myriad of tubes

and wires on the underside of the car. As he rips one

tube out of the undercarriage...

Gordon has just settled into the club chair, puts his wine

down on the table.

Suddenly SHACKLES SNAP out of the arms of the chair,

pinning Gordon's wrists. Before he knows what hit him,

the floor opens and the club chair disappears.

Gordon appears upside down in the chair, chagrined at

his predicament. West looks from the escape trolley

Gordon was talking about back to his partner.

Suddenly they flip OUT OF FRAME and back into the car,

shocked to find themselves facing...

Coleman's a scowling, grizzled old man in a coal-stained

suit. He's got a fire in his eye, brown spittle in the

corner of his mouth where a cigarette butt lives

permanently, and a large copper pot in his hand.

He threatens them with the pot of steaming liquid.   Now,

for the first time, Gordon really looks troubled.

A severed human head is in a vise.

West looks from the head to the open box.

Gordon holds up a strange, circular metallic object.

But West is still staring in disbelief at the head.

Gordon starts fiddling with a lantern positioned behind

the head.

Excited, Gordon turns on the lantern attached to the back

of his head. Beams of light are coming through his

eyeballs, creating a blurry color image on the wall.

West turns his head sideways to try to view the inverted

image projected on the wall. Gordon realizes the

problem.

He turns Morton's head in the vise.      It's right side up,

but still blurry.

ANGLE ON WALL - FUZZY IMAGE

appears. It's a man who has a tiny Victrola horn for an

ear. He's holding a bloody metal boomerang.

Gordon sees something in McGrath's pocket.

Gordon drums his fingers on his great frontal lobe,

stymied.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                           31.

West takes the bifocals out of the box, casually puts them

on Morton's nose. West now gestures to the wall.

CLOSE - IMAGE ON WALL

The white blur in the man's pocket is now focused. We

can see that it's the top of a piece of paper. He reads

the writing on it.

We see the Wanderer parked on the siding as we hear voices

over.

Gordon has his wardrobe open. Selected from his vast

array of costumes and disguises is a full livery outfit.

West is right in Gordon's face.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                               32.

West straps on his holster.

Gordon displays a belt with a silver buckle. He taps the

buckle... a Derringer pops out. West stares, impressed.

Gordon takes out a sequined dress, holds the Derringer up

against it.

West starts to walk away.    Gordon grabs him.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                                33.

Gordon grabs his fake breasts off the rack.       He puts

them on.

West touches Gordon's fake breasts.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                             33A.

ANGLE - COLEMAN

walking through the next car, carrying a tray of tea.

Gordon's last line got his attention. What the...?

Coleman peeks around the corner to see West eyeing

Gordon's "chest."

Coleman shakes his head and walks off.

ANGLE - WEST AND GORDON

West is thwapping Gordon's breasts.

West takes one of the cow udders out of Gordon's bodice

and dumps the buckwheat onto the ground.

West goes over to a wash basin, picks up a water pitcher

and fills the cow bladder. West squeezes the cow bladder

shut and holds it up to his chest.

ANGLE - COLEMAN

Passing back through the next car. When he hears that

last line, he can't believe it. He peeks in again to

see...

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                             33B.

Coleman's mouth drops.     He's sweating.

Coleman walks off, shaking his head.

BACK TO SCENE

Suddenly, Gordon shoots the cuffs off his jacket. Out of

one sleeve comes a pen. Out the other, a small pad of

paper. They are both connected to a spring-loaded metal

gizmo up his sleeve. West reacts, drawing his pistol up

into Gordon's face.

carrying some costumed swells pass through wrought-iron

gates guarded by some of McGrath's ex-Rebs. FOLLOW it up

a Spanish moss-draped drive to a huge Garden District

mansion. As the carriage pulls to a stop in front...

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                            33C.

Jim West drops to the ground from where he'd hitched a

ride underneath. He rolls into the shadows of the house.

When he stands, he's face to face with a huge GUARD with

a gun.

He smirks at a lawn jockey.    West reaches into his coat.

He withdraws his hand. While the Guard squints at his

empty palm, West grabs his head with his other hand and

smacks it into the lawn jockey's fist... clang! West

leans the cold-cocked Guard against the house, uses his

shoulder as a step, boosting him up to...

West grabs the ironwork underneath and acrobatically

swings himself over the rail. As he BREAKS the PANE on

the French door with his gun butt...

West lets himself in. Then just as he's about to part

the heavy drapes... he hears women's voices approaching.

Now Miss Lippenreider, Amazonia and Munitia (bewigged and

wearing costumes) wrangle a beautiful and defiant Latina

into the room. When she turns we recognize she's the

singer from Fat-Can's. Rita is in her early 20s, wearing

a 19th-Century camisole so scanty, it makes it hard to

concentrate on what she's saying.

Amazonia grabs her by the throat, choking the word off.

POV - THROUGH DOOR - INTO BEDROOM

A ramp leads to a large bed. A leather and steel

prosthesis is hanging from pulleys attached to the

ceiling.

Amazonia just picks her up and drags the hapless Rita

into the room. West emerges from behind the curtains,

shakes his head. Weird. He eases out the door and

into...

West hears the PARTY DIN coming from down below.     He

goes to the balcony.

WEST'S POV - OVER STAIR LANDING - DOWNSTAIRS

The scene below is hallucinogenically surreal. A Babel

of foreign languages is the first thing that strikes us.

Avant garde MUSIC is coming from two 10x10 quartet boxes

on either side of the room to create stereo.

West turns to see who busted him. Coming his way is a

ravishing Chinese girl dressed up as a DRAGON LADY.

The name means something to West.

We FOLLOW them as she takes his arm and leads him down

the stairs, into the party.

West surveys the crowd.

West scans the room.    Stops.

WEST'S POV - WOMAN WITH BIG HAIR

She's got the mole, too.    Gordon has apparently encored

his Soiled Dove get-up.

Miss East sees who he's looking at. She makes a pouty

face as there's a flourish from the STEREO QUARTET.

West watches as she joins...

LOVELESS' WOMEN - NIGHT

Miss East leads them in a sober rendition of "The Battle

Hymn of the Republic" in front of a large doorway.

From behind the doors we hear the WHIR of an ELEVATOR.

It stops with a CLUNK. Suddenly...

NEW ANGLE - DOORWAY

bursts open and Abraham Lincoln in a mini-float appears.

It's decked out like Lincoln's box at Ford's theater. On

its own power, it moves past the laughing party-goers in

the foyer. Now the women throw grapes on the floor.

WEST'S POV - ANGLE ON WHEELS OF WHEELCHAIR

are what's trampling down the vintage. West takes in the

whole man. Very curious. Then suddenly... KABOOM!

ANGLE ON ABE'S HEAD

It explodes like a pinata. Up from the hole in his neck

peeps... DR. ARLISS LOVELESS.

The Southern crowd gasps at Loveless's dramatic appearance.

As he giggles, the distaff corps surround him and remove

the Lincoln paraphernalia. Then step aside, revealing...

NEW ANGLE - DR. LOVELESS

is half a man. Literally. Cut off at the waist and

mounted on a wheelchair platform that is powered by an

engine, he is a man bereft of tuchus, kishkes and

everything else in that vicinity that makes life

interesting.

Dr. Loveless looks down at himself, smoothes half of his

Fritz Lang Metropolis-style suit. His face turns dark as

he surveys the crowd.

You can hear a pin drop.    Loveless turns to the foreign

dignitaries.

He suddenly seems distracted by the comely beauties that

surround him. Then abruptly, manically...

Loveless signals to the quartets to resume playing. Miss

East leans down and whispers in his ear. Loveless looks

in West's direction.

Now Loveless wheels over to West. West isn't hiding.

He's cocky in the face of rolling danger.

West keeps a lid on his temper.    Two can play at this

game.

Loveless smiles slightly.

Danger flickers in Loveless's eyes.    He looks to Miss

East.

Loveless's face drops. He is no longer amused. Miss

East winks at West, then accompanies Loveless in the

direction of the study where...

General McGrath waits impatiently. He takes two

champagnes off a passing tray, guzzles them, then

wipes his mouth on Dolly Madison's bustle. As his

eyes sweep the room...

ANGLE - WEST

He ducks behind a mountain man carrying the French

tricolor. When Loveless and General McGrath disappear

into the study and close the door, West eases after

them. He pauses as he passes the "Soiled Dove," leans

into her big bouffant. He regards a stained-glass window

patterned with a spider over her shoulder.

As the Soiled Dove jumps a little, West continues over to

the study door. Now the Soiled Dove turns, and we see

the scared/confused expression. Maybe it's because she

is not Artemus.

ANGLE - GORDON - ACROSS ROOM

He's the mountain man in the fringe jacket. And right

now he's shaking his head as he watches West resort to a

decidedly low-tech surveillance method of Loveless's

study.

KEYHOLE - NIGHT

McGrath paces in front of Loveless's desk.

McGrath's face relaxes into a pyorrheic grin.

Loveless takes pencil in hand and draws a map on the

desk.

Loveless wheels his chair toward the door with McGrath

behind him folding up the map...

ducks out of the way as Loveless and McGrath emerge from

the study. As they disappear into the throng of well-

wishers, West takes a thin lock-pick out of his hat band.

It takes him a moment or two, but the LOCK finally

CLICKS. Then West slips inside, apparently undetected --

except by an unimpressed Gordon.

moves quickly to the desk past walls filled with oil

portraits of various Loveless relatives. The one behind

the desk is in the style of Gainsborough. A Loveless

uncle is standing on a windswept grouse moor, two English

setters by his side, a Holland and Holland double held in

the crook of his arm.

West turns his attention to the desk blotter. There's a

faint imprint where Loveless drew the map. West takes

his penknife and a pencil -- grates some graphite into

the depressions. He's just about to do a rubbing on a

piece of paper when... someone swipes it out of his hand.

ANGLE ON MISS EAST

Hands on hips, she gives him a "naughty, naughty" look.

But instead of scolding him further, Miss East plants an

over-heated kiss on him. Tongues are involved. As they

break, she gives a little nod of approval.

She pushes him down into Dr. Loveless's chair.

She starts to undo the buttons of his trousers. But

West has a job to do. Well, maybe he can do two jobs at

once...

NIGHT

is being the perfect party guest, moving through the

crowd chit-chatting with this person and that (in

French, Spanish, German) when he sees something of

interest.

Munitia and Lippenreider come out of an upstairs bedroom,

lock it behind them. Hmmm. What's in there? As he

starts upstairs, Amazonia appears, blocking his way.

Amazonia stares at him, then spiels off a couple lines

in a foreign language that makes Gordon's eyes widen.

He understands what she said and it's not flattering.

Gordon moves off in a shock.

are locked in a passionate embrace. West manages to

position her nearly-naked rear end over the graphite

powder. Very carefully, he stands, pushing her buttocks

onto the desk and then rolling her off. The imprint on

her left cheek is perfect. But unfortunately, it's

backwards!

CLOSE - WEST

Damn. He lets Miss East concentrate on what she's doing,

which from the SOUNDS O.S., doesn't appear to be a

demonstration of the correct way to butter corn.

West spies a mirror on the other side of the room and

raises her ass up into position so he can see the

corrected reflection.

ANGLE ON MIRROR - MAP

COMES INTO VIEW. It clearly shows the meeting place to

be Malheureux Point, northeast of New Orleans. But the

mirror reflects something else of interest...

The painting behind him has come to life. The Loveless

in the painting swings a real shotgun around and is

pointing it at the back of West's head.

CLOSE - WEST

suddenly contorts his upper torso just as an EXPLOSION

rips the back of the chair where his head would have

been.

He draws and SHOOTS the would-be assassin, who falls out

of the painting, dead. West turns to see...

ANGLE ON MISS EAST

A surprised look on her face. A hole in her forehead.

He lowers her head gently to the ground, regards her

map-imprinted rear end.

emerges just as a Kentucky reel starts up. He weaves his

way through the dance floor and spots the Soiled Dove

look-alike out on the floor. West reluctantly

straightens his shoulders and cuts in. This bold move

gets some looks of disapproval from the pecan pie crowd.

ANGLE ON WEST AND SOILED DOVE RINGER

dancing. Both look straight ahead, not at each other.

West so as not to attract any more attention. His partner

because she's scared shitless of this strange Negro who

keeps hounding her.

West looks over to where Loveless is leading a contingent

of foreigners out a side exit.

The Soiled Dove look-alike is speechless.    Before he

goes, West leans in, smirks.

And just to dig the grave deeper, West lays hands on them

and gives them a little squeeze. This immediately

elicits a scream and a slap in the face that shocks the

bejesus out of the black cowboy. And he's not the only

one.

ANGLE ON CROWD

staring at him. We know what they're thinking, but the

Mountain Man behind West says it for everyone.

And with that, Gordon opens his deerskin jacket to reveal

his own rope, which he throws to the mob. West looks

back at the character in amazement. That's Gordon?!

Before West can say or do anything, guns are at his

temple, and he's swept out of the room.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                              45.

Gordon calmly straightens his coonskin cap, seemingly

uninterested in West's imminent hanging. In the hubbub

of everyone rushing out for the hanging, Gordon heads up

the unguarded stairs to the locked room.

As he pulls out his high tech auto-wind lock-pick and

quickly gains entrance to the door...

Hand-held torches illuminate. The rope is tossed over a

lamp post. PAN DOWN TO where one of the mob, dressed as

GEORGE WASHINGTON, is binding West's hands behind his

back.

NIGHT

eases in, stops at what he sees. And it sure ain't

scientists. Beside the bed, locked in an iron disco-like

cage, is Rita, still wearing her scanty outfit. Gordon

squints at her, gives a charming smile.

She takes a breath as if she's going to start screaming.

Gordon quickly holds up a hand.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                         46.

To Rita's amazement, Gordon opens his jacket and

unbuttons his vest to reveal... a complete miniature tool

shop. Quickly he pulls out a thin cable and attaches it

to a tiny wheel on the spur of one of his boots.

Gordon unsnaps the sole of his shoe. It becomes a pedal

that operates the wheels' rotation. Now he removes a bit

and handle from his vest and attaches the cable. Starts

to pump his foot. It's a foot-powered drill.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                            47.

But Rita isn't listening to the food review. Her mind's

racing. Finally, the LOCK CLICKS and the cage door

swings open. Gordon takes the distressed damsel in his

arms, lifts her out.

West is lifted onto the back of a wagon. With the noose

dangling in front of his nose, West addresses the crowd.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                               47A.

Soiled Dove gasps.

The CAMERA FINDS the Soiled Dove.    She faints.

BACK TO SCENE

As West searches desperately for signs of rescue by his

"partner," suddenly the wagon lurches forward...

NEW ANGLE - WEST'S FEET

As they plummet toward the ground.

CLOSE - WEST'S NECK

The rope catches... and stretches!

CLOSE - WEST'S FEET

As they slowly touch the ground.

Nobody is more confused than West.

ANGLE ON CROWD

How the fuck did that happen? But before anybody can

figure out Gordon's trick rope, speak of the devil...

The crowd turns with alarm to see...

ANGLE ON TEAM OF CHARGING HORSES

Nostrils flared and wild-eyed, are having their rumps

snapped by Gordon's reins. Rita holds on for dear life

as the mad Mountain Man drives the carriage at full speed

right into the crowd -- scattering them.

ANGLE ON WEST

He sees his opportunity for rescue, puts a foot into the

back of George Washington, grabs his gun, and somersaults

into the air...

ANGLE ON GORDON AND CARRIAGE - WEST

lands squarely in the back. And just as the rope starts

to stretch around his neck again, Gordon whirls around

with a Bowie knife and cuts it.

NIGHT

West leans into Gordon's ear.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                         49.

Suddenly, there's a VOLLEY of SHOTS from some cracker

sharpshooters. West responds with an amazing display of

RAPID-FIRE marksmanship, picking off half a dozen of

Loveless's shooters, even while the carriage bumps wildly

on its getaway. BLAMBLAMBLAMBLAM!!!

Now West notices the half-dressed bombshell in the

carriage.

Gordon's eyes pop.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                         50.

Gordon starts singing the song... West rolls his eyes,

cuts off the chit-chat.

And with that... West suddenly leaps over Rita -- lands

on the back of one of the horses. He grabs a handful of

mane, leans over and unclips the harness. And with a

kick in the ribs, West is off at a gallop -- leaving

Gordon, one remaining horse and an awed Rita behind to

chew his dust.

Dr. Loveless and his visiting foreign dignitaries are

sipping champagne. One of them is holding a little DOG

in his arms, BARKING at something in the dark. General

McGrath stands at the railing, uncharacteristically

pensive. Loveless rolls over, hands him a glass of

champagne.

McGrath visibly winces at the sound of it.

Loveless looks at him, puzzled, then gets it.

Loveless speaks for the benefit of the others.

A reb battalion waits in a foggy meadow that slopes down

to marsh. Beyond that is the Gulf of Mexico. We

recognize one of the REBS from the cathouse. He opens

his pocket watch.

Suddenly they hear a CLANKING and SCREECHING coming from

the marsh. They ready their arms and get in defensive

positions. What they can't see through the fog is...

ANGLE - MARSH - ARMORED TANK

amphibiously sludges up through the mud and reeds,

passing by the dumbstruck soldiers as it heads to the

center of the field. The contraption has a large cannon

and Gatling guns bristling from several ports. The Rebs

cheer their new weapon.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 7/1/98                         52.

Now a MORTAR appears through the turret and FIRES a

ROCKET that EXPLODES over the Reb soldiers, illuminating

the field. As soldiers shield their eyes from the

blinding light...

ANGLE - AERIAL SHOT - LOOKING DOWN ON FIELD

Unbeknownst to the Rebs, Loveless has mowed and stained

the field with concentric lines to give it a giant dart

board appearance.

Suddenly the TANK TURRET OPENS FIRE on them. Once over

their initial shock, the Rebs FIRE BACK with their

Springfield RIFLES. But the BULLETS PING off the tank's

impenetrable skin like goober peas.

Lippenreider is viewing the carnage through large

binoculars on a stand.

General McGrath turns from the rail and faces Loveless,

outraged.

Loveless turns to him, cocks his head.

Loveless turns to Munitia holding a steno pad.

Amazonia pushes a sick dignitary away from the rail so

she can get a sight line to the tank with her lantern

semaphore. She begins flashing the new gear ratio.

Now in the b.g., we hear the GATLINGS OPEN UP.

Lippenreider is reading the lips of the tank's victims.

As Munitia scribbles dutifully, McGrath shoves her aside.

He pulls his pistol.

Loveless, his back to him, is seemingly unconcerned at

having a gun barrel pressed against his skull.

As Loveless's right index finger finds a black button on

the arm of his wheelchair...

CLOSE ANGLE - LOVELESS'S WHEELCHAIR ARM

The steel tubes that comprise the armrests are actually

shotgun barrels facing fore and aft. McGrath's finger

tightens on the trigger.

WIDER

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                                54.

BOOOM!!! McGrath has a very startled expression as he

looks down at the aftereffects of DOUBLE-OUGHT BUCKSHOT.

As he crumples to the deck, Loveless sniffs.

The dignitary's DOG starts BARKING, jumps to the deck.

It sits next to the fallen General's gramophone ear and

cocks his head. With the RCA logo invented we MOVE BACK

TO...

ANGLE ON LOVELESS

He sighs at his pale guests. They don't seem to

appreciate the efficiency of his slaughter.

Munitia and Amazonia unceremoniously dump McGrath's BODY

overboard. SPLOOSH... Loveless addresses the

dignitaries...

A black waits ominously on the tracks. It's less a

traditional train car than a riveted, armored, turreted fortress

on wheels. Also, it currently lacks an engine.

Loveless, over his shoulder to the foreign contingent...

He looks dotingly at the TANK, which CLATTERS up from the

battlefield on its treads... then drives onto the tracks.

Wheels drop down out of the chassis, the treads retract

up, and the TANK BACKS INTO the rest of the TRAIN.

CLANK. It's a neat modular fit. Black death on rails.

The foreigners watch with awe as...

ANGLE - LOVELESS

wheels up onto the tank/train. He drops the

expansiveness, fixes them with a viper's eye.

ANGLE - NIGHT

It's quiet.    The dead men are all in the #9 or #10 ring.

Now a rider ENTERS FRAME...

West slowly dismounts, transfixed by the slaughter on the

pre-fab battlefield. There's something hauntingly familiar

about all this for him -- the mangled bodies, the tread marks...

But we'll find out about that later.

West draws his weapon and begins walking through the

victims. The pace of his search quickens when he isn't

finding what he's looking for -- General McGrath.

NEW ANGLE - GORDON AND RITA

have arrived in the one-horse carriage. Gordon is trying

to recreate the crime scene. Rita trails behind him, his

coat thrown over her shoulders, trying not to gag as she

passes the mangled corpses.

Rita can't handle Gordon's clinical posturing.

As she walks quickly away, West comes over, a haunted

look on his face.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                        57.

He looks out at the battlefield as if reliving it.

Gordon is sympathetic to his obvious pain -- just shuts

up. West's grim reverie is interrupted by MOANING coming

from the shoreline. They all follow the sound to find...

General McGrath, washed up on the shore. West looks down

at him. Now Rita, still looking green around the gills,

rejoins the party.

As grey as four-day-old mullet, McGrath manages a smile

for his relentless pursuer.

McGrath fades out.    West grabs him and shakes him.

With the meaning of it all sinking in, West grabs McGrath

by the collar and pulls him toward him.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                         58.

The General tries to speak. West puts his ear to the

General's mouth. But before he can say it, McGrath

closes his eyes for the last time.

West's shoulders sag.    Then from behind...

West turns to her... well?

As West and Gordon turn to one another in alarm...

West and Gordon climb up onto the Wanderer and enter...

West and Gordon burst in, surprising Coleman, who's got

his feet up, perusing the Playboy of the day -- a mail

order catalogue.

West snatches the catalogue out of his hands, does a take

at the pictures of chunky models in bloomers.

As Coleman quickly exits, Gordon looks out the window,

onto the platform.

As the ENGINE ROARS to life...

WANDERER - NIGHT

Rita gives a forlorn little wave as the TRAIN CHUGS away.

Rita disappears from view in a cloud of steam...

West has every weapon on the train out for cleaning and

loading. Gordon is in the galley where he continues

his conversation with West while preparing dinner.

THE WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 6/15/98                        60.

Suddenly there's a WHOOSH and Rita falls through the

ceiling and plops in the chair just like West did

earlier. He instinctively pulls his gun. Puts it

away as Gordon muses about her anatomy.

Rita raises an eyebrow, looks to the galley as Gordon

comes out with a platter of food. He still doesn't

see her there.

Gordon turns and looks into the car. Finally sees her.

Changes gears without missing a beat.

Gordon gestures for West to join him at the pool table.

Rita immediately goes for the food.

Gordon turns to her, exasperated with himself.

Rita hasn't even waited for anyone's approval to start

eating. West shakes his head at her chutzpa.

She uses the time to get another bite into her mouth.

West cuts off the chit-chat.

West rolls his eyes.

West picks up the speaker horn and calls Coleman.

West looks out the window. Nothing but sagebrush and

animal skulls out there. Rita comes up close to Jim,

fire in her big, brown eyes.

That gets the man of action where he lives.

She grabs West's hand.

West kinda melts a little. This girl does have her

charms. Gordon, a little jealous, puffs his chest out.

West draws his guns, twirls them and reholsters.

Artemus raps his knuckles on the wall making a METALLIC

sound. Then he smugly demonstrates that the light

fixture is actually a Gatling gun.

Finally he moves to the billiard table, while Rita nods

... and keeps eating.

Gordon unclicks it, triumphantly rolls it into a pocket.

West snorts at his obvious play for Rita's attentions.

West jumps in before Gordon can answer.

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                                 65.

West and Gordon have bunked down on opposite couches,

both deep in thought.

West sits up.

ANGLE - COLEMAN

opens and Rita emerges from the state room...

(INSERT RITA'S BUTT HERE)

Rita leaves...

WILD WILD WEST - Rev. 4/9/99                              66.

Gordon and West react as Coleman's voice booms out of

the pipe.

As they scramble for boots, weapons, Rita comes out of her

room.

Gordon ushers her to the back.

Meanwhile, West pulls on his boot. When he stands on it,

a three-inch STILETTO SNAPS out of the toe.

West looks at him incredulously.

