January 21, 1999 (Pink Revision)

January 15, 1999 (Blue Revision)

December 18,1998

All IS A BLUR. . .

...then WORDS appear, twisting and vaguely transparent,

reflected on the window GRADY TRIPP stands before as he

reads from a sheaf of NEATLY-TYPED PAGES.

Grady--45-year-old novelist, professor, and insomniac--is

in the midst of reading a story to the dozen college

STUDENTS who make up his Advanced Writing Workshop.

As he finishes, GRADY ponders a PAIR of MAINTENANCE MEN,

perched on ladders in the quad below, stringing a LARGE

BANNER between two bare trees. The BANNER reads:

WELCOME TO WORDFEST

GRADY turns, peers at his students. They look as if

they've been on a field trip to the DMV.

A GIRL with jet-black hair turns to a PALE YOUNG MAN

sitting at a desk in the back of the classroom. He is JAMES

LEER, 19. Like GRADY a moment before, he is staring out the

window.

James Leer says nothing, huddling lower in the PATTY

OVERCOAT he wears.

GRADY glances at James, but his face remains impassive.

Then--with a visible sense of relief--GRADY notices the

raised hand of the achingly beautiful HANNAH GREEN.

GRADY nods, smiles subtly. Appreciative.

Hannah Green gathers her things, pauses by Grady.

GRADY watches her glide away in her CRACKED RED COWBOY

BOOTS, then starts to exit himself.

GRADY pauses, studying the wan figure sitting at the back

of the classroom, then--reluctantly-hits the switch on the

wail, leaving James Leer alone in the DARK.

GRADY hurries down the steps, then spies SARA GASKSLL,

45, standing below. She is talking to a BOY with an armful

of SLICK PROGRAMS.

GRADY watches Sara take the programs, turn, and spot him.

There is the slightest of hesitations, then....

This hangs in the air, awkward somehow, then both nod and

continue on, without so much as a backward glance.

The RADIO BLASTS as GRADY pops the glove box, removes a

JOINT as big as his pinky, and wheels his DARK MAROON '66

GALAXIE RAGTOP away from campus, cruising under another

BANNER:

WELCOME TO WORDFEST FEBRUARY 26-28

GRADY cruises past the three rivers and modest

skyscrapers of downtown, sipping at the weed.

GRADY rides the long, automated treadmill that runs half

the length of the terminal, until...

...TERRY CRABTREE--Grady's editor and friend-exits the

tunnel with a STUNNING YOUNG WOMAN in a skin-tight black

dress, bright red topcoat, and three-inch spike heels.

Grinning devilishly, Crabtree whispers something in the

woman's ear, then spots Grady.

GRADY nods, but lingers briefly--studying the

architecture of Miss Sloviak's ankles as she CLICKS off in

her spike heels, arm in arm with Crabtree.

GRADY and Crabtree watch suitcases tumble as Miss Sloviak

sits across the way, inspecting her face in a compact.

Crabtree ignores Grady's question, smiling placidly as he

watches the carousel spin.

GRADY stiffens. He had been expecting this, but not so

soon. He tries to act casual.

GRADY ponders this, troubled by it. Suddenly, Crabtree's

face brightens again.

GRADY turns, watches an immense PONY HIDE CASE drop onto

the carousel.

As the Galaxie emerges from a TUNNEL, GRADY watches the

great city of Pittsburgh reveal itself in the distance,

then glances in the rearview mirror.

GRADY takes a joint from the ashtray, snaps a Scripto

butane.

A YOUNG WOMAN with a crumpled PITTSBURGH STEEIERS

UMBRELLA exits the building and-seeing GRADY parked in

front of a fire hydrant--stops, a puzzled expression on her

face. As she approaches, GRADY roils down the passenger

window.

CRABTREE and MISS SLOVIAK smile and nod. Tanya smiles and

nods back, her eyes passing uneasily over Grady's joint.

GRADY just smiles, nods.

GRADY watches a tiny stream of water trickle through

Tanya's sad umbrella.

Tanya nods--at a loss-then turns away into the rain.

GRADY gazes at the glittering scene beyond his

windshield, turns on the ignition.

Through the windows, a rabble of writers, faculty and

select students can be SEEN, mingling under a haze of

cigarette smoke. GRADY brings the Galaxie to a lurching

halt across the street, parks in front of another fire

hydrant. As the trio steps out. MISS SLOVIAK notices a

GREENHOUSE, shimmering quietly in the chill night air.

As the front door swings open, Sara Gaskell appears,

riding a wave of jagged party CHATTER onto the porch.

As Sara steps forward, her heel-catches and she pitches

forward ...into Grady's arms.

Sara looks at Miss Sloviak, a faint glitter of scientific

curiosity in her eye.

Just then, a THICKLY-MUCSCLED DOG with very strange EYES

skitters around the corner, BARKING SAVAGELY in the general

direction of Grady.

Poe continues to rage, his paws doing crazy eights on the

hardwood floor, until he's spun himself completely around

and is barking at the living room.

As Poe simmers to a deep growl, GRADY leans forward.

GRADY enters a room swimming in BASEBAIL MEMORABILIA.

AUTOGRAPHED BASEBALLS abound, as well as PHOTOGRAPHS of

famous big-leaguers. In one somewhat-dated PHOTO a TRIM MAN

IN HIS FORTIES (a younger Walter Gaskell) stands with

PITTSBURGH PIRATE BILL MAZEROSKI at an old-timers game. As

Sara eases the door shut, GRADY nods to a 1951 YANKEE'S

PENNANT hanging over the mantle.

Sara takes Grady's hand, drawing him away from the

pennant and down onto the coat-covered bed.

A flash of LAUGHTER flutters from the living  room below.

GRADY starts to speak.

GRADY nods, getting her drift, then roils onto his back.

Sara nods. Considers this.

GRADY and Sara stare at the ceiling. Sara sniffs the coat

lying beneath her. Miss Sloviak's coat.

GRADY starts to pull up, but his arm is underneath Sara.

Poe noses blindly through a forest of legs, pauses by

Miss Sloviak's high heels and scores a Rye Krisp. Crabtree,

returning with a pair of DRINKS, tiptoes around him, finds

MISS SLOVIAK chatting with a trim MAN in his 50's.

NEW ANGLE

GRADY works his way through the crowd, spies Walter, and

changes course. Directly ahead is an oddly commanding MAN

("Q"). From the behavior of the people in his vicinity it's

clear he is someone of interest. Presently, he is putting

the make on Hannah Green.

Q eyes GRADY over his wine glass.

As GRADY moves off, he sees Poe sniffing, and goes the

other way, heading directly into the crosshairs of a MAH IN

TWEED, who is talking to another, shorter MAN.

The short man blinks, impulsively takes Grady's hand.

As GRADY flees, he passes a WOMAN holding a cigarette.

GRADY comes out the back: door and ferrets a JOINT from

his pocket, lights it. He takes a long draw, walks around

the side of the house. As he passes a window, a VOICE

accosts him.

GRADY starts, but when he looks through the window, he

sees that the VOICE belongs to WALTER GASKELL and the

person to whom he's talking is Sara. They are standing in

the kitchen, near an elaborate WINE RACK.

As Walter goes, GRADY studies Sara as she stands alone in

the quiet little room, looking small and tired. Finally,

she takes a breath, steeling herself, and moves off,

returning to the clamor inside her house.

GRADY sighs, guilt-stricken, then detects a FLICKER of

LIGHT coming from the darkness beyond. A FIGURE is watching

him from the retaining wail that leads to the Gaskell's

garage. GRADY blinks, chagrined that he's been caught

eavesdropping, then his eyes narrow and he steps off the

porch.

James Leer wears the same nasty overcoat from class, a

GREEN KNAPSACK hanging off one shoulder. GRADY looks at

what appears to be a sliver of moonlight in James' palm.

James' face betrays his own fragile chagrin and GRADY

peers more closely at what lies in his extended hand. The

sliver of moonlight is, in fact, a shiny PEARL-HANDLED

PISTOL.

GRADY reaches for the gun, but James closes his fingers

and slips the tiny thing back into his overcoat.

As GRADY exhales a plume of smoke, James' eyes pass

briefly over the jay. GRADY

notices, offers.

GRADY nods, accustomed to James' weirdness.

James nods toward the house, where Hannah Green can be

seen in a window, still fending off the determined Q.

GRADY nods, ponders this over-elaborate explanation.

James looks away from the window, at Grady.

GRADY considers James' fragile face.

As James gazes off at the gloaming greenhouse, GRADY

looks down at the left front POCKET of James' overcoat.

Like a nervous tic, James' hand- hidden-twitches against

the modest bulk of the cap gun.

James blinks, startled by Grady's laughter, startled that

he's said something funny. He looks back to the greenhouse

Abruptly, James glances at his watch.

James turns away, then stops. He stands like this a

moment, then turns back. Holds out his right hand.

GRADY hesitates, then shakes James' hand. James moves off

then, leaving the light of the house behind.

James looks conflicted.

It's quieter now, the party winding down, as GRADY sneaks James past

the departing guests and toward the stairs.

GRADY stops, sees Hannah slipping on a coat in the foyer.

CRABTREE appears at the top of the landing with Miss

Sloviak. Her lipstick is blurry.

CRABTREE steps down the stairs, hand extended. James

Leer's pale fingers rise as if on a string.

The few people within earshot glance oddly at James, but

Crabtree's eyes glitter with intrigue.

James glances at the loose group of people around him,

watching, then...

James turns, finds Crabtree's laser eyes on him. James

blinks, as if he had forgotten about Crabtree, then shrugs

shyly, looks away.

As he exits, CRABTREE raises an eyebrow to Grady, as if

to say: "Bring him."   MISS SLOVIAK follows, eyeing James

glacially as we CUT TO:

BLACK

The dull PURR of a COMBINATION LOCK is HEARD, a DOOR

opens, and a triangle of LIGHT falls on a PHOTOGRAPH of

MARILYN MONROES JOE DIMAGGIO on their wedding day.

GRADY and James Leer stand in the doorway. Just below the

photograph of Marilyn and Joe--hanging next to a PIN-

STRIPED JERSEY bearing the number 5--is a SHORT BLACK SATIN

JACKET trimmed with an ERMINE COLLAR.

James, in the presence of the holy grail of suicide

garments, stands speechless.

James swallows, then'-goes to the jacket. Carefully, he

reaches out his fingers and touches the yellowed collar,

barely making contact, as though it might crumble to dust.

GRADY says this airily, ironically, riding his buzz a

bit, but James nods solemnly, eyes transfixed on the

jacket, as if Marilyn herself were inside it.

GRADY studies James as he takes the fringe of the jacket,

lifts it lightly.

Grady's eyes slide, paranoid, but James' face remains

unchanged, consumed with the jacket.

A DOOR SLAMS downstairs and GRADY and James jump. The

CLICK of a woman's HIGH HEELS sends GRADY to the bedroom

window, where he watches Sara slide into a WHITE CITROEN

DS23, turn on the ignition, and motor away.

James is slumped on the Gaskell's white linen bed,

knapsack between his knees, head in hands.

Without thinking, GRADY flicks out the bedroom light,

leaving James Leer in the dark for the second time today.

James just sits there, a shadow in a room of shadows.

A LOW RUMBLE freezes GRADY

as he enters the hail. A few feet away, Poe lies belly to

the ground, his blind blue eyes trained, more or less, in

Grady's direction.

GRADY starts to take a step, when.... Poe shoots forward

and sinks himself deep into Grady's ankle.

GRADY hops gracelessly, momentarily lifting Poe off the

ground as he swings his leg up. Poe, countering, rolls his

head in a snapping motion and drops GRADY in a clumsy heap.

Poe regains his feet, but doesn't let go, whipping his

head back and forth, back and forth, over and over,

growling low, dark, and hideously from the back of his

throat, until there is a sharp...

CRACK! CRACK!

Poe YELPS, goes perfectly still, then topples heavily

onto Grady's legs. GRADY

turns. James Leer stands in the doorway, posed with the

little pearl-handled pistol like Steve McQueen.

GRADY looks at James. Then Poe. Then back to James.

GRADY roils down his sock. Apparently, Poe went through

life with a slight overbite.

James looks miserably at Poe.

GRADY rises awkwardly, holds out his hand.

GRADY and James stare gloomily out the windshield.

James glances in the backseat, where Poe lies, strange

blue eyes gleaming.

As sporadic APPLAUSE wafts from the high windowpanes of

Thaw Hall, GRADY leans into the Galaxie's trunk, creates a

space between the tuba and a ZIPPERED SUITCASE.

James totters forward, arms hooked under Poe's front legs

looking like a sorry marathon dancer. GRADY frowns, limps

forward, and takes the hind legs.

They lay him down, push him deep into the trunk--until

there is a SOUND like a pencil SNAPPING.

GRADY grabs Crabtree's garment bag, frisks the pockets.

GRADY unravels a pair of boxer shorts, finds an airplane-

size bottle of JACK DANIELS, then grabs another pair of

boxers.

GRADY rattles a prescription bottle, then shakes out a

pair of WHITE PILLS, each etched with a tiny numeral 3.

GRADY opens the tiny bottle of Jack with his teeth,

drinks down two number 3's, then looks at James.

Recklessly, James takes a pill, tosses it in his mouth,

and tips back the tiny bottle of Jack. Half a second later,

he spits it all out. GRADY looks down, peels the soggy pill

from the lapel of his jacket.

On the stage. Walter Gaskell stands alone at a podium.

As the audience THUNDERS, GRADY and James slink into the

auditorium. It's standing room only. As they head for an

open space against the back wail, GRADY squeezes past a KID

with a GOATEE .who regards him warily.

GRADY stares, over the gleaming sea of heads before him,

watching as Q pauses, ..for a very long moment... waiting

until the auditorium is consumed in a heavy, anticipatory

hush. Finally, he speaks again.

As the audience EXPLODES with glee, GRADY frowns. He

glances to his right, sees James' left brow crinkled with a

similar look of bafflement.

GRADY glances at James, sees that his eyes are unblinking

and glazed, then sees, beyond him, Sara standing by the far

EXIT. A blink later, she is gone.

GRADY leans back, listening to the BEATING of his own

HEART, the soft GLIMMER of the chandeliers hanging by a

thread forty feet above his head...

Abruptly, James LAUGHS OUT LOUD--some private amusement:

bubbling up from the bottom or his brain and out into the

auditorium. As Q looks and four hundred other heads turn,

James ducks down--mortified. Crabtree, sitting a few rows

away, studies James with amusement, then winks at Grady.

GRADY blinks, turns to James.

GRADY bursts through the auditorium doors and into the

lobby. A PAIR. of local BOOKSELLERS, chatting quietly

behind a table arrayed with the BOOKS of attending authors,

glance up as GRADY limps toward the restrooms.

GRADY stumbles down the sloping carper, but the corridor

begins to turn sideways on him and he stops, resting his

cheek against the cool...cool...wall. ..as...ail..-goes....

BLACK FOR A

MOMENT AND THEN....

GRADY opens his eyes, finds Sara's face swimming above

him. He is lying on his back in the corridor, his corduroy

blazer bundled under his head like a pillow.

GRADY looks at his ankle and feels a rush of guilt.

Sara's face stiffens, becomes more Chancelloresque.

GRADY lets her pull him up, watches her light a

cigarette.

GRADY watches her flip her hand up, bring the cigarette

to her lips, and inhale ...then grimace and drop it to the

floor.

Somewhere deep in the building, APPLAUSE swells.

GRADY looks sadly at Sara then stoops to retrieve his

coat.  As he grabs it, James Leer's little pistol CLATTERS

to the floor.

Before GRADY can close his hand, Sara has it in her own.

She points it-at Grady's chest. He smiles nervously.

GRADY places his fingers gently over Sara's... and

removes the gun from her hand.

The auditorium doors swing open and James Leer emerges,

arms draped over CRABTREE and a LARGE STUDENT.

As they make for the restrooms, Sara and GRADY appear.

As Sara heads off after James, GRADY turns toward the

lobby...directly into the hostile gaze of Miss Sloviak.

As the Galaxie's big trunk yawns open. MISS SLOVIAK

stares at what's wedged up against her suitcase.

MISS SLOVIAK raises an eyebrow and then, leaning in,

unzips her suitcase.

As GRADY drives, MISS SLOVIAK finishes with the top

button of a man's shirt, then reaches into the zippered

COSMETICS BAG in her lap. Onto the open tray of the

glovebox, she places a JAR of COLD CREAM, a BOTTLE of NAIL

POLISH REMOVER, and a cloud of COTTON BALLS.

GRADY watches MISS SLOVIAK peel the wig from her

forehead.

Tony angles the rearview mirror toward himself.

Tony peels off a pair of false eyelashes, blinks.

As Tony re-sets the rearview mirror, GRADY gets a glimpse

of his own swollen eyes.

Hearing this, GRADY looks troubled. MISS SLOVIAK points.

GRADY pulls in front of a small brick house. On the front

lawn, a small statue of the BLESSED VIRGIN stands under a

little white BAND SHELL painted with stars.

The PORCH LIGHT conies on and a SMALL, WHITE-HAIRED MAN

squints through the screen door.

GRADY reaches into his pocket, hands it over. Tony

smirks.

GRADY studies the gun in Tony's hand, then glances at the

front screen door. Pop is still there.

MISS SLOVIAK returns the gun, .steps out of the car, and

peers in at Grady.

GRADY parks near a VAN that has KRAVNIK'S SPORTING GOODS

stenciled on the side. He watches a BOUNCER frisk a patron

in the PINK LIGHT of the Hi-Hat Club's entrance, then

slides -James Leer's little PISTOL into the glovebox.

As GRADY steps to the door, the bouncer gives him a

perfunctory pat-down.

Hannah Green is dancing with a sweat-drenched Q as GRADY

enters this SMOKE-FILLED RHYTHM AND BLUES club. She beckons

with a finger, but Grady--Nervous at the sight of her

glistening Mormon skin--merely pantomimes an exaggerated

shrug and she points.

CRABTREE and James Leer sit at a dark corner table. James

slouches, eyes half-closed, while CRABTREE stares in the

general vicinity of the dancers, his hand extended beneath

the table, in the general vicinity of James' lap.

Grady, looking a little alarmed, grabs a passing

WAITRESS.

As GRADY arrives, CRABTREE withdraws his hand delicately

and James' eyes flutter open .briefly, ..then close.

GRADY cuts James a glance, trying to determine if he's

copped on Poe, but James is winking out. His head drifts

back against the wail, settles with a gentle ...thunk.

CRABTREE glances over, nods.

GRADY looks up, unable to disguise his surprise.  He

glances at James' slack face tilted against the wall.

GRADY notices the waitress's nametag (OOLA) and realizes

she is conspicuously PREGNANT. He watches her disappear

beyond the blur of bodies on the dancefloor, where Hannah

Green's slinky form seizes his attention.

CRABTREE grins, brings his bottle up, then stops.

GRADY follows Crabtree's glance and finds Oola again, but

it's not Oola CRABTREE

is eyeing, it's her CUSTOMER.

Sitting alone in the dark booth is a SMALL BLACK MAN with

big hands, a face peppered with scar tissue, and--most

noticeably--a tsunami of hair sprouting from his scalp.

GRADY and Crabtree turn to look at James Leer, who opens

one bloodshot eye to regard them.

James' eye closes. CRABTREE looks over at Grady.

Just then, Hannah Green bounces up in her red boots.

GRADY and Hannah, reflected in bits and pieces in the

jack 'o lantern wail of MIRRORED TILE, slow-dance to a

sexy, measured blues.

GRADY spies the corner table, watches CRABTREE say

something to Q and then, casually, stroke a lock of hair

from James Leer's forehead.

GRADY looks down into Hannah's translucent face, then

catches a glimpse of himself in the fractured, wail. The

tile that would reflect his head is missing.

Hannah snuggles closer, lays her head on Grady's chest.

Grady, limping on his bad ankle, carries James to

Hannah's rumpled RENAULT, props him against the fender.

James MUMBLES, starts to slide onto the hood of the car.

GRADY glances at the idling Galaxie across the street.

CRABTREE

and Q huddle inside.

GRADY frowns in annoyance, opens the passenger door.

As GRADY lowers James into the seat, he WHIMPERS, curls

into a bail. Hannah turns her puppy dog eyes on Grady.

As GRADY starts to turn away, Hannah's fingers graze his

face.

GRADY watches her fold her lovely self into the car and

drive away. He sighs, crosses to the Galaxie, and just has

his hand on the doorhandle when a TINY FIGURE appears.

Vernon Hardapple.

GRADY shakes his head wearily, opens the door.

GRADY slides in next to Q, puts the car in gear, and

starts to pull away. As he glances in the rearview, he sees

CRABTREE smiling darkly in the backseat.

CRABTREE just keeps smiling.

GRADY flicks his eyes from the rearview mirror just as a

SHADOW looms in his headlights. As he squashes the break

pedal, Q's EYEGLASSES go flying into the windshield.

It's Vernon, waving his arms, his shadow enormous in the

beams of light.

GRADY taps the accelerator, but each time, Vernon dances

back in front of Grady's grille.

GRADY throws the car in reverse, backs straight up, then

turns up a one-way street. He shoots down the alley behind

the Hi-Hat, turns onto the adjoining street, ..and watches

in amazement as Vernon materializes from behind the high

wooden fence that runs parallel to the Galaxie.

As GRADY pinches the brakes, Vernon grins.

Then, as the three men watch, Vernon rocks back on his

heels and--with a gymnast's precision-pitches himself onto

the Galaxie's big hood. He -lands on his ass, slides

smoothly off, then takes a deep bow and disappears into the

night.

GRADY peers at the wrinkled asterisk on his hood.

Grady stops the car in the red zone and gets out.

The JANITOR, the same shaggy-haired kid GRADY saw rigging

the WordFest banner earlier, is struggling with a balky

FLOOR WAXER as GRADY steps up to the double doors and slaps

his hand against the glass.

GRADY pushes on the door and it opens.

The knapsack is sitting on one of the metal folding

chairs as Sam and GRADYenter the silent hail.

GRADY lifts the knapsack, peers inside. There is no title

page to the MANUSCRIPT, Just the words The Love Parade and

then, halfway down, TEXT.

GRADY steps outside, closes the flap of the knapsack and,

hunching his shoulders against the cold... stops.

Crabtree. Q. The car. Gone.

Traxler gives GRADY a ride in his Honda, one of the

original Hondas best suited for sidewalk driving. The

backseat bulges with a huge AMPLIFIER and BASS GUITAR.

Sam points and GRADY glances at the knapsack riding on

the seat between him and Sam. A BOOK'-bearing ERROL FLYNN'S

PICTURE--IS tucked into the side pouch.

Sam brings the car to a coughing idle across the street

from the Gaskell's house.

GRADY gazes at Sara, a .vaporous blur in the greenhouse.

Just then, the Honda FILLS WITH LIGHT. HEADLIGHTS loom,

then a POLICE CAR sweeps into the Gaskell's driveway.

Walter appears on the front steps.

Traxler looks anxiously at the police car.

As Traxler drives away, GRADY mounts the porch with James

Leer's knapsack hanging from one shoulder. He reaches above

the door, feeling for a key, but his fingers come away with

only dust. He stands, dispirited, then an idea strikes. He

takes the doorknob, turns it. It opens.

GRADY enters, closes the door quietly behind him.

The room is dim but the TV is on, throwing crazy slashes

of light onto the wails and ceiling. As GRADY limps by, he

finds a sleeping Hannah Green, bundled in a blanket, T-

shirt, and little else. On the floor, near her dangling

hand, Woolf's A Common Reader lays open next to a Diet

Coke. GRADY considers the smooth geography of her body, but

his eyes 'are most powerfully drawn to. ..her feet. He

steps forward, lifts the blanket gently, but finds-to his

disappointment--only the red cowboy boots.

He picks up the remote, turns off the TV, and exits.

James Leer slumbers on a green sofa, draped in an old

sleeping bag. GRADY drops behind his desk, lets James'

knapsack slide to the floor. He lifts his cuff, inspects

his ugly ankle, then glimpses something in the knapsack.

Something yellow. Something soft.

GRADY reaches down and, slowly--like a magician producing

a magical scarf-extracts MARILYN MONROE'S WEDDING JACKET

from James Leer's ratty green knapsack.

GRADY glances at the young man on his sofa, then, looking

very tired, reaches for the desk lamp ...and turns out the

light on the both of them.

GRADY steps outside in a WOMAN'S CHENILLE BATHROBE and

plucks the Pittsburgh Post-Gazette from the second porch

step. He fishes out a charred ROACH, starts to light it,

then notices the Galaxie sitting in the driveway.

As CRABTREE SNORES thunderously, GRADY eases open the

door, spots the CAR KEYS on the dresser, grabs them.

GRADY eases the door shut, starts to turn, then stops,

his eyes drawn to the door just across the landing from

Crabtree's room.

GRADY pushes open the door with the tips of his fingers,

lets it glide open. The room that is revealed is bright and

well-ordered, in direct contrast to the lazy clutter of

Grady's office. There is a DRAFTING TABLE and a COMPUTER,

pads and pens neatly arranged alongside.

A BULLITEN BOARD hangs on one wall, bearing an intricate

mosaic of multi-colored index cards. There are PRINTS,

framed, from various art exhibits, and two of Grady's

DHSTJACKETS--including, most prominently, Arsonist's

Daughter.

There are PHOTOGRAPHS of EMILY too. In a black turtleneck

with friends. In a sundress with Grady. In a billowing

Burberry, floating like a dark butterfly against a BLUR of

YELLOW TAXIS on a street in Manhattan.

Smiling brilliantly. Beautiful.

GRADY enters with a THERMOS--pauses--redistributes the

sleeping bag over James Leer's pale body.

GRADY sits at his desk, pours himself a cup of coffee

from the thermos, then sets the cup directly in the center

of a galaxy of previous coffee rings. Next, he takes a

clean piece of paper, balls it up, and-with ritual

precision-strokes it into the MINIATURE BASKETBALL HOOP

that crowns the rim of the WASTE BASKET across the room.

All net.

A 9-VOLT CROWD ROAR belches from the hoop and, without

further ceremony, GRADY

turns to the blank page curling from his IBM SELECTRIC

and SPACES to the top right corner, TYPES:

In other words: Page 2611.

CLOSE UP - THE TYPEWRITER PAPER -- darkening with WORDS,

the KEYS SNAPPING faster and faster, a CRAZY CLAMOR that

grows and grows until, finally, it just ....Stops.

GRADY awakes with his back to the floor, James leer's

quizzical face floating like a cloud above him.

GRADY peers down at the geraniums blooming on the pockets

of the robe, its overall fuzziness.

James nods. Down the hallway, in another room, the

TELEPHONE RINGS.

As James shuffles away in the sleeping bag, GRADY rises

delicately and turns toward the window, ..just in time to

see a POLICE CAR roil slowly by on the screen below.

James has noticed the towering stack of 20 Ib. bond on

Grady's desk.

James takes another glance at the mammoth manuscript.

A LOUD HACKING is HEARD. GRADY and James turn, watch

Crabtree, wearing only a pair of striped boxers,

materialize in the hallway.

James waves feebly from beneath the sleeping bag.

As GRADY moves to his desk to reacquaint himself with the

page curling from the typewriter, James continues to stare

into the emptiness of the hallway. The sight of CRABTREE

seems to have made him suddenly queasy.

As James contemplates this, the DOORBELL RINGS. GRADY

looks up, sees the POLICE CAR he noticed earlier, now

parked at the bottom of his driveway.

A POLICEMAN not much older than James Leer waits. As the

door opens, GRADY

appears.

James lurks at the top of the stairs, swaddled in the

sleeping bag, straining to hear.

GRADY is  scratching his head in mock thought.

Pupcik stops on his pad, looks up.

Pupcik nods slowly, as if re-filing GRADY under "Dealing

With Assholes."

Pete Pupcik smiles, tips his big blue police hat, and

turns away. GRADY frowns, starts to close the door...

GRADY stiffens, then turns to find Hannah Green across

the room in her t-shirt and cowboy boots, looking ail dewy-

eyed and delectable.

Hannah stretches and the t-shirt slides dangerously up

her thighs.

GRADY stands frozen as Hannah smiles sleepily, pushes

through the swinging door into the kitchen. A THUMPING is

heard as James, tangled in the sleeping bag, hitches down

the last few steps of the stairway. He watches Pete Pupcik

drive away in his big police car.

With a look of wonderment, GRADY watches his hand ever-

so- gently ...hang up the phone.

James, now wearing one of Grady's flannel shirts beneath

his ratty overcoat, follows Grady-to the Galaxie, knapsack

swinging from his shoulder. GRADY tosses him a ring of

KEYS.

As GRADY runs a plastic WEDGE over the GLAZE of ice

blanketing the windshield, James stares curiously at the

keys, as if they were some strange artifact, then slides

behind the steering wheel.

As GRADY works, James' face comes into view, then ...the

wedge SNAPS, splintering into the flesh of Grady's hand.

James blinks, pokes his head out the window.

GRADY and James stand in the sundries aisle of a

neighborhood MARKET. GRADY

has a TIN of BAND-AIDS open and is presently plastering

his ragged thumb.

James, in the midst of chugging from a 64-OUNCE JUG of

ORANGE JUICE, stops.

GRADY tosses the tin of band-aids into a small plastic

hand basket, begins to move down the aisle.

GRADY stares incredulously at James.

GRADY drops the basket at the check-out counter and,

abruptly, finds himself face to face with a BABY, lolling

on the shoulder of the woman before him. The baby is

staring, spellbound, at a display of...Q'S LATEST

PAPERBACK. GRADY

frowns, then detects the true source of enchantment: a

spray of SHINY MYLAR GIFT BALLOONS.

A thought evolves.

James takes another chug from his jug, nods.

Grady, squinting through the ten-inch panel of cleared

ice on the windshield, roils slowly up onto the curb in

front of Walter and Sara Gaskell's house ...then off.

GRADY pops the glovebox, takes out a PEN, and scratches

something on the GIFT CARD attached to the BALLOON. James

glances briefly at a plump ZIPLOC OF POT stashed in the

glovebox, then peers at the house.

GRADY gets out, then pauses, glancing at the giant orange

juice jug between James legs. It's about half-down.

James takes a powdered donut that lies on his coat,

studies it curiously.

As GRADY turns away, James ponders this, then considers

the ring of white sugar imprinted on his coat and re-sets

the donut in precisely the same place.

Through the steamy panes, we SEE GRADY approach with the

balloon, enter. He crosses to a high table, sets the

balloon down, and steps back, considering the placement.

GRADY jumps--startled--and turns. Sara has materialized

behind a ficus, large POTTING GLOVES on her hands.

Sara nods, moves the ficus to another table.

GRADY looks up, mildly alarmed.

Sara settles back, folds her arms. Waiting.

As GRADY stares into Sara's eyes, things begin to blur.

Sara looks at him.

Sara holds up one gloved hand.

GRADY goes still, watches Sara strip off the gloves, drop

them on  a table.

Sara turns to leave, then stops, squinting far down the

street.

Sara raises an eyebrow, then pushes through the door.

GRADY watches her ripple across the glass, head for the

house, and wave. James, slumped low in the Galaxie, offers

a limp hand in return, but it's too late.

She's already gone.

GRADY cradles the wheel in his bandaged paw, while James

sits stiffly, the orange juice jug bobbing between his

thighs.

James looks over.

James nods, unsurprised, then turns back to the window,

staring at the landscape, still sitting oddly still. GRADY

glances at him. At the orange juice jug.

Nothing.

GRADY looks over, surprised by the James' tone. James

blinks, looks embarrassed.

James peers out the window at passing landscape.

James turns, eyes flashing with surprise.

James nods vaguely, then reaches into the ashtray, takes

a JOINT between his fingers, sniffs it.

James puts the joint back in the ashtray.

GRADY takes the joint from the ashtray, lights it, then

notices-with surprise--James has his hand out.

GRADY glides down the graceful, tree-lined streets of a

modest, but well-kept neighborhood. James still has the

JOINT-now only a tiny nub-pinched between his fingers.

James' heavy eyelids flutter with surprise.

GRADY RAPS on the front door, then cups his hands against

the glass of the living room window, squints inside.

Nothing. As he turns away, GRADY sees James sitting on the

hood of the Galaxie with the box of powdered donuts. He's

sitting in the indentation.

As GRADY nods, James holds out the donut box.

As GRADY steps onto the back porch, James follows.

James stares at the "Doggy Door" cut into the back porch

door.

James takes another sad glance at the little door, then

drops onto ail fours.

GRADY leads James through the house. Everything about it

speaks of family. Even the furniture seems arranged so that

people will gather together, light a fire, talk.

Grady, laboring badly on his ankle", enters and finds a

DUFFEL BAG open on the floor, its contents a tangle of

quickly-packed clothes. Everything else in the room feels

of another time. PHOTOGRAPHS are everywhere, documenting a

PRETTY GIRL'S life, from first recital to cap and gown.

One photograph lies face down. GRADY turns it over and

finds the pretty girl grown into a beautiful young woman,

standing in a white gown next to a younger Grady--on their

wedding day.

James enters, FRENCH ROLL in hand, and sees a REMOTE

CONTROL atop the BAR. Taking it, he points it at the WIDE-

SCREEN TELEVISION imbedded in the opposite wall and,

seconds later, GEORGE SANDERS walks into his CLOSE-UP.

Grady, a PINK PRINCESS PHONE to his ear, lies on the bed

next to a huge TEDDY BEAR.

James runs through the channels, pauses on MARTIN MILNER

and GEORGE MAHARIS, riding in their curvy Corvette.

A Nelson Riddle's THEME FROM ROUTE 66 BOOMS from below,

GRADY

cups a hand over his ear.

As GRADY endeavors to respond, TWO YOUTHFUL VOICES,

CHEERFULLY SINGING, rise from below.

James, in the midst of pouring himself a tumbler of

Bushmills, smiles as JUDY GARLAND and MICKEY ROONEY sing

their hearts out in Babes In Arms.

GRADY shakes his head, carries the phone toward the

bedroom WINDOW.

As GRADY watches, a late-model PONTIAC BONNEVIlLE turns

into the driveway below him.

The Bonneville's trunk pops open, revealing THREE BAGS OF

GROCERIES, and HANK and IRENE WINTERS, both in their 60's,

get out. An enormous NEWFOUNDLAND vaults from the backseat.

Sara, eating phone static this whole time, interprets

Grady's silence her own way.

As the line goes dead, GRADY watches Hank and Irene

Winters disappear below him.

James--Irish whiskey in one hand, the pride of Humboldt

County in the other--watches with deep absorption as Judy

and Mickey have a heartfelt conversation. Then, sensing

something ...he turns.

Hank and Irene Winters, grocery bags in arm, stand

frozen.

FOOTSTEPS are HEARD on the staircase and GRADY hobbies

into view. He tries a smile.

Hank Winters emerges from the bathroom with a roll of

tape, a bottle of alcohol, and some cotton wool.

GRADY puts his foot up on Hank's lazy-Boy, then notices a

BOOK lying face down on the seat. The AUTHOR on the back

cover looks as if he's trying very hard to look

consequential. To his surprise, GRADY realizes the author

is himself.

GRADY glances into the living room, where James and Irene

sit on a long couch together, sipping something hot. James

is looking out the window, a curious expression on his

face. GRADY looks out his own window, sees the Newfoundland

sniffing curiously at-the Galaxie's trunk. When he glances

back into the living room, he and James make brief eye

contact, then blink, look away.

GRADY tries to read Hank's face---is he messing with

him?--but Hank gives nothing away. GRADY nods to the book.

GRADY doesn't have to read Hank's face this time.

Hank looks up, incredulous.

GRADY starts to continue, then stops, cowed by something

in Hank's tone, something dismissive. Instead, he looks

away, toward the living room, and catches sight of James

again, sitting alone now with his big cup of cocoa.

GRADY gestures vaguely.

Hank snaps off the tape, slaps Grady's ankle.

GRADY glowers darkly at the road, then puts his hand up

against the HEATING VENT which, apparently, is not putting

out any heat.

GRADY glances over, sees James burrowing into the Ziploc.

James looks at Ziploc as GRADY fiddles with the heat

LEVER.

GRADY stops with the heater, glances over at James, whose

face bears not the slightest trace of irony.

James eyes shift slowly, as if to 'say: Who are you

kidding?

James looks -out the window, pondering this.

James looks down, a little defensive.

James just blinks, no ready answer-available.

James' face hardens. He looks away.

James stares blankly at Grady, then turns his face to the

window. He ponders Grady's words, the praise inherent in

them. A hint of pleasure glints in his eyes.

James turns, studies Grady's face as it flickers in the

first headlights of the evening.

GRADY smiles contemptuously.

GRADY stares ahead, watching the darkness tumble away

before the wide sweep of the Galaxie's headlights.

GRADY rolls into a space near the coffee shop and James

slides out. GRADY

stays put, hands still on the wheel.

James nods, pushes past the glass doors into the coffee

shop, and a big REDHEAD in a waitress cap leads him to a

table with a view of the highway. GRADY

watches James-- stick figure in black brogues--slide into

the booth and open his big, laminated menu.

Finally, as if concluding some internal debate, GRADY

kicks open his door, steps out.

GRADY rests his forehead against the PAYPHONE as he

speaks.

GRADY straightens up, takes a peek at James, sitting by

himself on the far side of the coffee shop.

GRADY stops, his own words ringing in his head.

GRADY upends James' knapsack, sifts through: An

AUTOGRAPHED POSTCARD of FRANCES FARMER. A wrinkled box of

CHICLETS. Nothing. Then he notices ERROL FLYNN'S eyebrows

peeking at him from the knapsack's side pouch.

He takes the book, opens it. Bingo. A library notice:

James Seiwyn Leer is three weeks overdue. Under ADDRESS it

says only: "On File." But if one was to dial the PHONE

NUMBER, odds are it won't be the night janitor at the

Greyhound depot who picks up.

The remains of a FRIED CLAM SANDWICH sit before James as

he turns his attention to a GIANT PIECE OF LEMON MERINGUE

PIE. GRADY sips only coffee, stealing glances at the cars

that whip by on the highway beyond the window.

James shrugs, spears a fluffy chunk of pie.

GRADY watches a pair of headlights approach...

...then pass. James' words finally register. GRADY looks

at him.

Just then, a long, pale WAND of LIGHT splinters against

the coffee shop windows and a CAR sweeps into the parking

lot. GRADY follows it with his eyes, rises.

GRADY moves off, then stops, looking back at James and

his giant piece of pie, still troubled by his words.

As GRADY limps out of the coffee shop, he finds an OLDER

MAN in a TUXEDO standing in the open door of a gleaming

BLACK MERCEDES. Beyond him, in the front passenger seat, a

WOMAN in MINK examines her eye shadow in the tiny mirror of

the sun visor.

GRADY considers the two glittering ghosts before him.

They seem to be waiting. Just waiting.

GRADY turns for the coffee shop, then stops, looks back.

Amanda Leer's eyes narrow ever-so-slightly.

James is glowering at the parking lot as GRADY returns.

GRADY stares at-James wearily.

GRADY doesn't flinch, unpersuaded.

GRADY starts to protest, then pauses.

She makes me sleep in. the basement of my own house. It's

mine. My parents left it to me.

GRADY glances toward the parking lot, studies the

contours of Fred Leer's face. Frowns.

James looks down at the table, takes a deep breath, and

speaks in a voice heavy with implication.

Grady's addled brain grapples with this dark little

riddle, finally deciphers what James is suggesting.

As GRADY lifts him from the booth, James attempts a

plaintive tone, but his heart's not in it.

As Fred Leer SLAMS the back door of the Mercedes, GRADY

waves vaguely, peers into the darkness of the back seat.

Fred Leer hits the gas and swings the Mercedes around in

a tight little arc, feathering Grady's pants--from the knee

down--with a pudding of ICE and MUD. GRADY glances down at

his spattered self, then notices, sitting on the front

passenger seat, James' knapsack. GRADY grabs it, turns.

GRADY'S POV - REAR WINDOW

as the Mercedes begins to pull away and James turns,

elbows on the back dash, his pale face slack. Spying Grady,

he raises one limp hand, and then-as if it were held by a

string-lets it drop.

GRADY sits in-the GREEN GLOW of .the radio dial, smoking

a joint. He glances at the knapsack, sees James'

MANUSCRIPT:

The Love Parade

He reaches in, takes the manuscript and, in the light

that rains from the PARKING LAMP overhead, begins to read.

Grady's HOUSE looks like a three-dollar whore on a block

full of nuns. MUSIC BLARES, LIGHT BLAZES from every window,

and there are so many CARS GRADY is forced to leave the

Galaxie in the middle of the street.

Times Square before the ball drops. GRADY enters, scans

the room, then shoulders his way to the stairs.

Hannah Green sits on the sofa, twisting a long strand of

hair around her finger as she reads a THICK MANUSCRIPT.

She slaps the page she is reading back onto the stack at

her thigh. GRADY

stares. The manuscript. It's his.

Grady's  mind races with unfortunate possibilities, but

only briefly: his immediate thoughts are elsewhere.

Just then, Crabtree's VOICE bellows in the hallway

outside.

GRADY looks anxiously toward the door.

As GRADY starts to turn away, Hannah hooks her finger

inside his belt buckle.

GRADY looks at Hannah's hand, where it rests. He looks

terrified.

CRABTREE stops, takes in the tableau before him.

GRADY delicately removes Hannah's hand from his buckle,

points at Crabtree.

CRABTREE cocks his head toward the reams of paper stacked

on Grady's desk.

GRADY and CRABTREE turn, see Hannah sitting on the corner

of Grady's desk with the WHITE PAGES open on her lap.

CRABTREE snaps James' manuscript closed.

GRADY smirks, glances at Crabtree, but gets a surprise;

CRABTREE offers no snappy come-back, no antic wordplay. He

just stares out the window, his voice distant.

As Crabtree's voice trails off, GRADY studies him.

GRADY and CRABTREE look at each other a moment, then

CRABTREE smiles, gives a little shrug, and picks up James'

knapsack, rummaging through the contents.

CRABTREE fishes out the biography of Erroll Flynn, gives

it a look.

GRADY peers at the stars, his voice barely audible.

The battered Galaxie floats up a narrow road, gliding

through a canyon of mansion walls and the occasional

winding drive. Up ahead a stone post marker with the

numerals "262." GRADY kills the headlights.

Grady--limping like an aging prizefighter--leads CRABTREE

up a steep incline toward an enormous three-story house.

The Leer's Mercedes gleams in the shadows.

LIGHT GLOWS from a low BASEMENT WINDOW. From one side, a

WOMAN is HEARD SINGING. GRADY and CRABTREE pause, listen.

CRABTREE and GRADY look at each other.

GRADY moves to the window and RAPS on the glass. A moment

later, James peeks out. Seeing Grady, his face brightens

briefly, unguarded, then quickly resumes its usual Leerian

aspect. He motions with his hand, as if to say, "That way."

The DOOR swings open to reveal James Leer, decked out in

a pair of RED, INK-STAINED PAJAMAS sagging badly in the

seat. He looks like one of Santa's elves.

As they step inside, GRADY gives James' PJs the once-

over.

Electric CANDELABRAS light a large converted cellar whose

walls are crowded with MOVIE POSTERS and LOBBY CARDS. There

are STACKS of what look suspiciously like LIBRARY BOOKS and

an enormous BAROQUE BED, complete with CANOPY.

James scoops up the shirt GRADY lent him. this morning.

James flinches, stung, then disappears into a bathroom.

CRABTREE leans over an old ROYAL TYPEWRITER, reads from

the freshly-typed PAGE curling from the carriage.

...and muttered simply, "It means nothing. All of it.

Nothing," that the true shock came. It was then that the

boy understood that his hero's true injuries lay hidden in

a darker place. His heart...'

CRABTREE stops abruptly.

CRABTREE hesitates, then... reads on:

GRADY nods, his face unreadable, then James returns.

James stops, sees the two men looking at him.

CRABTREE and James turn.

CUT TO: POE -- as he's lowered delicately onto James'

bed.

GRADY strategically arranges the coverlet, gently

adjusting Poe's head so only a TUFT of FUR shows. He steps

back, joining CRABTREE and James for an assessment.

The lights are still blazing, the front door is wide

open, but not a soul remains.

A quiet disaster, the only sound an LP playing meekly on

the STEREO. James passes through first, ignoring the

TORTILLA CHIPS POPPING under his shoes, then CRABTREE and

GRADY appear.

CRABTREE pats Grady's cheek, heads upstairs.

Crabtree's door is closing as GRADY hobbles into view.

GRADY looks down, sees James Leer's black brogues sitting

on the floor outside Crabtree's door.

The door closes, the LATCH CLICKS, and GRADY is left

alone, the bossa nova floating softly in the air.

Hannah Green lies tangled in the sheets, surrounded by

little colonies of Grady's manuscript. GRADY studies her,

then detects something on the floor. The red boots.

Delicately, he lifts the sheet. Hannah Green's feet--

finally revealed in ail their naked glory--prove to be

thick, wide, and ordinary. GRADY

sighs.

The TV is on. GRADY steps to the doorway, pauses.

A HEAD cranes over the sofa. It's the Goatee Kid from

Thaw Hail.

GRADY sits quietly on the porch steps, a joint burning in

his fingers. To his left, perched atop a Haagen-Dazs

container, is a TELEPHONE. As he pulls it into his lap, a

LAMP in the living room pirouettes clumsily, spins free of

the cord, and SHATTERS on the floor.

GRADY blinks, looks away, and DIALS, just as. ..the

CLATTERING COUGH of an ENGINE is HEARD and a VAN appears.

Stenciled on its side panel is:

Kravnik's Sporting Goods

The van slows, almost coasting, then abruptly bursts past

Grady's house and disappears around the corner. GRADY

frowns, then realizes a MAN'S VOICE is coming from the

RECEIVER in his lap.

The VOICE is groggy. It is Walter Gaskell's voice.

GRADY says nothing, as if wondering what he's doing.

Silence. Then Walter's VOICE returns: even,

administrative.

GRADY sips on his roach, responds in a pinched voice.

As the line goes dead, GRADY stares at the phone,

wondering if he has, in fact, just done what he thinks he's

just done.

A CAR rattles down the street, NEWSPAPERS pinwheeling

from-the window.

A heavy THHNK hits the driveway outside and GRADY blinks.

Sitting in his pink robe, bleary-eyed, he reconsiders the

piece of paper curling from his typewriter.

GRADY'S POV - of THE PAGE

It's obvious he's been sitting like this for some time.

Just then, the DISTINCTIVE PURR of an ENGINE is HEARD.

GRADY peers through the window, watches a CAB. glide to the

curb below. A Citroen DS23. Sara.

GRADY steps onto the porch, unintentionally punting a

BOTTLE of Iron City Beer onto the front lawn..

Sara leans down, replaces the uncradled phone.

GRADY doesn't know what this means, but he's pretty sure

it's not good.

Sara raises her hand, silencing him.

Grady's hand hangs in mid-air, gesturing pointlessly to

the driveway, where the only thing that exists is an oil

stain roughly the shape of North Dakota.

Sara turns, sees Officer Pupcik cruising to the curb.

CRABTREE sits in bed, flipping through the pages of The

Love Parade while stroking a tiny TUFT of HAIR that is the

. sole visible part of .James Leer.

CRABTREE peels back the blankets and James Leer opens one

eye.

James swings his pale little legs to the floor and walks

bare assed across the room to retrieve his BVDs.

GRADY squints at James as he pulls on his pants.

As James' head pops through Grady's fully-buttoned

flannel, he and CRABTREE

exchange a knowing glance, at once referring to and

excluding Grady.

James stops, considers this piece of news with a look of

deep seriousness, then nods.

As James shuffles off into the hail, CRABTREE looks at

Grady, his eyes dancing with excitement.

Sara and GRADY stand by as Pete Pupcik deposits James in

the back of the squad car, SLAMS the door.

PUPCIK

As I told the Chancellor, Professor, I'm. just going to

run James here over to the university. It'll be up to Dr.

Gaskell where we go from there.

GRADY nods, leans in the window to James.

James nods and GRADY starts to step back from the car.

James smiles his crooked grin.

On this,  Pete Pupcik pulls away, leaving GRADY standing

on the curb, watching the back of James' head, framed in

the rear  window of the police car, growing smaller.

Grady, detecting something in Sara's tone, turns, watches

her take a drag on her cigarette.

Sara's face remains .unchanged.

Sara tosses her cigarette in .the gutter, gets into her

car, and dives away.  GRADY looks after her sadly, then

turns, sees CRABTREE standing on the porch wearing a shirt

which claims "Ativan Chases the Clouds Away."

Hannah, wrapped loosely in cotton sheets, SMILES as she

listens to the Goatee Kid, who sits cross-legged at the

foot of-her bed, fully clothed.

Hannah looks up, sees GRADY in the doorway and blushes.

She pulls the sheet up, gives an oddly formal wave.

Jeff eases off the bed, past GRADY uneasily.

Jeff nods--puzzled--then goes. GRADY smirks.

GRADY nods, detecting a new aloofness in her voice.

The hitch in Hannah's voice hangs in the room like a

cloud.

Hannah glances at the huge stack of paper sitting on her

dresser, then, hesitantly, looks back to Grady.

...you didn't make any choices at all. And I was

wondering if it might not be different if, maybe, when you

wrote, you weren't always ...under the influence.

Hannah nods, averts her eyes, and immediately GRADY feels

ridiculous. He starts to say something, but instead gathers

his manuscript and exits.

Crabtree, dressed now, studies the freight 'in Grady's

arms as he reaches the bottom of the stairs.

CRABTREE sucks on a Kool, driving Hannah's rattling

Renault too fast, shifting gears apparently at random.

GRADY rides shotgun, still wearing the robe over his

clothes, the Wonder Boys manuscript sitting like a

watermelon on his lap-looking, all in all, fairly pathetic.

CUT TO:

BILL MAZEROSKI legendary Pittsburgh Pirate second

baseman, large as a Macy's Day float, his weathered image

scaling three floors on the BRICK face of a RIVERFRONT

STOREFRONT.

CRABTREE takes a corner recklessly, immediately slows,

and blinks in amazement.

Parked in front of KRAVNIK'S SPORTING GOODS is the white

van. A few feet behind, the battered Galaxie.

GRADY steps out, strips off the robe, and drops the lumpy

leviathan that is his manuscript on the front seat.

GRADY peers into the backseat, squinting against the WIND

that swirls around him. Errol Flynn's face leers back at

him. But no jacket. GRADY slides in, pops the glove box,

and frowns at the ZIPLOC of Humboldt County. He pockets it

anyway, then spies something else.

James Leer's little PEARL-HANDLED PISTOL.

GRADY takes it, rotates it-in his palm. SUNLIGHT GLINTS

off the chrome barrel and everything slowly turns to a

SWEET, SOFT BLUR...

CRABTREE stomps on his Kool. GRADY looks very much like a

man who has pulled off the road to take a nap.

As GRADY lolls behind the steering wheel, a CLOUD

appears, hovering, then slowly mutates, and GRADY realizes

it's not a cloud at all, it's

MARILYN MONROE standing by the side mirror, wearing a

bright pink dress under her wedding jacket.

Marilyn's face swims before Grady's eyes, but there's

something wrong with it. This girl's eyes are brown and

besides, she's ...fat.

The last of the fairy dust evaporates and GRADY finds-

standing before him in a pink jersey dress and Marilyn

Monroe's wedding jacket--0ola, the pregnant waitress from

the Hi-Hat Club.

Suddenly, there is a HEAVY CLICK.

GRADY starts to turn, but his head won't  move: largely

because the BARREL of a GERMAN NINE is pressed to his

temple. Grady's eyes slide.

GRADY lifts his arm, points the little pearl-handled

pistol to the DARK CLOUDS overhead.

CRABTREE jumps as the tiny pistol at the end of Grady's

arm FLASHES, makes a FEEBLE POP in the wind.

Vernon stands half-hunched, stunned.

The gunshot seems to have cleared Grady's head. He stares

at the gun, watches Vernon wrest it from his hand.

As GRADY gets out of the car, Vernon places his hand on

Oola's tummy.

A rude SQUEAL breaks the silence--rubber scratching

asphalt--and Grady, Oola, and Vernon turn to see Hannah

Green's rattling Renault lurching awkwardly toward them.

Gears GRINDING, tires smoking, CRABTREE fish-tails

wildly, then kicks open the passenger door.

GRADY doesn't move an inch, watching in mute amazement as

CRABTREE whistles by, proceeds halfway down the block, then

turns back for another pass.

The car bucks crazily, picks up speed, and Crabtree--

swiping aside a flutter of MANUSCRIPT PAGES that have taken

flight inside the car--begins to veer right toward Grady,

Vernon, and Oola.

Vernon steps into the street, levels the German Nine.

Frantic, GRADY steps between Vernon, the German Nine, and

the oncoming Crabtree.

CRABTREE fans the wheel wildly, goes into a slide and the

passenger door snaps wide, releasing what looks to be a

FLOCK OF WHITE DOVES into the wind-whipped sky.

Only, these ain't birds.   - ^

These are PAGES. Seven years of-pages.

CRABTREE goes into another slide, one-hops the curb, and

smashes flat into the weathered GLOVE of BILL MAZEROSKI

painted on the front wail of KRAVNIK'S SPORTING GOODS.

As Hannah Green's RADIATOR EXPLODES, CRABTREE steps free

of the car and looks skyward. It's a ticker-tape parade ail

the way down the street, ending in the frigid waters of the

Ohio River.

Vernon drives, Oola at his side. In-the back, CRABTREE

puffs philosophically on a Kool while GRADY sits grimly

with the sad remains of his manuscript: SEVEN RUMPLED

PAGES, one of which bears the watermark of a shoe print.

Grady's eyes shift, study Crabtree.

Vernon stares at CRABTREE as if he's from another planet.

They ride in silence for a moment, then Oola turns,

glances at GRADY

and his little sheaf of pages.

GRADY stares into Oola's sweet, brown eyes.

Oola's brow wrinkles. CRABTREE glances at his old friend,

genuine compassion in his eyes.

Grady, James Leer's hollow knapsack in hand, stands with

CRABTREE at the campus entrance as Vernon and Oola prepare

to leave in the Galaxie.

GRADY glances at little round Oola.

GRADY watches Vernon give Oola a kiss on the forehead.

CRABTREE leans into Grady, WHISPERS.

GRADY looks at the waitress in her pink jersey dress,

snuggled up in the silk wedding jacket.

As Oola smiles, pleased, Vernon shakes his head.

Vernon points an imaginary gun, fires a friendly cap into

Grady, and pulls away. CRABTREE stands stunned.

GRADY watches the shrinking Galaxie sail under a drooping

NORDFEST BANNER, lost in thought.

GRADY blinks, ponders this briefly, then looks toward the

buildings of the campus, his VOICE still distant.

GRADY slides James' knapsack off his shoulder, smiles

cryptically as he considers it. -

Without warning, GRADY tosses CRABTREE the knapsack.

CRABTREE stares at the saggy green canvas in his hands,

watches GRADY walk away.

GRADY continues on, leaving CRABTREE to stand alone, as

he walks toward the buildings in the distance.

GRADY stops, turns.

GRADY considers this. Nods. It-doesn't seem to matter

anymore

If there was a Kentucky Derby for editorial bullshit,

Crabtree's last three utterances would finish win, place,

and show. And GRADY knows it.

CRABTREE looks directly at Grady, his old friend.

CRABTREE and GRADY stare into each other's eyes. Both are

acutely aware of the subtext of this conversation.

Dead quiet. Gradually, STEPS are heard, coming from the

stairwell, then GRADY limps into view.

GRADY surveys the room. Empty chairs. Empty desks.

He walks to a WINDOW, the same window he stood at two

afternoons ago when reading James Leer's story. A chill

breeze pitches the fabric of his shirt as he studies the

barren benches and icy walkways of the quad. Finally, he-.

turns away, settles behind his desk and, reaching into his

pocket, removes the seven remaining pages of his

manuscript. He considers them, then folds them in half

length-wise. He continues, folding the top right corner

down into a triangle along the first crease...

A moment. Then-from the third floor window-a PAPER

AIRPLANE glides into view, soaring then dropping, soaring

then dropping, again and again, graceful as a dove.

GRADY hobbles into the lobby just as one of the

auditorium doors swings open. APPLAUSE SWELLS and he spies

Sara standing inside, talking to a STUDENT USHER.

Sara turns ...as the door glides shut. As GRADY hustles

forward, Q, wine glass in hand, intercepts him.

GRADY enters, but Sara is ...gone. He picks his way

behind the back row, scanning the aisles.

It's Carrie McWhirty, James' tormentor from workshop.

GRADY takes another look around, then drops into the seat-

next to her.

But GRADY looks anyway. Hannah sits a dozen rows down the

aisle, hair pulled back in a clip, glorious skin gloaming.

The Goatee Kid sits close beside her.

Walter turns over the last page of-his prepared notes.

An anticipatory BUZZ sweeps through the audience as

Walter begins to read from a separate list.

As a CHUBBY WOMAN stands to acknowledge the applause,

GRADY cranes his neck, searching the sea of seats. To his

surprise, he finds CRABTREE sitting prominently in the

front row, in his shirtsleeves, smiling his spookily

complacent smile. James is next to him, now wearing

CRABTREE'S METALLIC SPORTS COAT over Grady's flannel shirt.

A SHORT, BALDING MAN stands briefly then Walter's VOICE

takes a shift in tone.

GRADY blinks, leans forward, and watches Walter smile

warmly toward the front row. CRABTREE gives James a jab in

the ribs and slowly, awkwardly, James rises. Stunned,

Carrie McWhirty turns to the GIRL next to her.

James hangs-like a scarecrow from a nail, waiting as the

APPLAUSE slows, then sputters, then dies out altogether.

Grady, in a last attempt to save James from himself, cups

Hi his hands around his mouth.

James turns, spots GRADY in the back row, then-a sheepish

grin on his face--spreads his arms, hangs his head, and

takes his first sweet public bow.

Wild, obsequious APPLAUSE. GRADY smiles cynically,

watches Walter take a brief, dignified bow of his own.

. :

The LIGHTS come up. As the auditorium empties, CRABTREE

shakes Walter's hand and Jeff and his goatee escort Hannah

Green down the aisle, where she drapes her lovely arms

around James.

GRADY watches them ail, sitting alone in his row, when

suddenly Sara appears over James' shoulder. She says

something congratulatory, turns, and exits out a side door.

GRADY blinks, scrambles up.

GRADY bursts into the corridor.'

Its empty. Quiet. GRADY pauses. Somewhere, a HEAVY METAL

DOOR CLOSES. GRADY rushes on.

Grady, limping badly, turns a corner and sees a DOOR. He

moves to it, pushes past...

...and finds himself standing in a stairwell. He leans

out over the railing, peers down. It's a steep drop, very.

steep, ending in a small rectangular space, a kind of

basement office, with VENDING MACHINES, PLASTIC CHAIRS, and

a COLLAPSIBLE CARD TABLE.

GRADY turns back to the door he came through, pushes

against it. Locked. He sighs, looks back at the stairs, his

ailing ankle, then sits. He fishes out the Ziploc of-

marijuana, considers the perfectly roiled JOINT floating

atop the bag of buds, but, for once, isn't up to it. The

SOUND of FOOTSTEPS echoes far below and, hopeful they're

Sara's, GRADY pulls himself up, peers over the railing.

It's Traxler, with a broom, a big plastic bag.

GRADY considers the Ziploc in his hand, looks down again.

GRADY hangs-over the railing and lets fly the Ziploc.  It

pinwheels through the vortex of stairs, lands at Sam's

feet.

GRADY is still hanging over the railing-but looking dizzy

now. His eyelids flutter and he tips forward-a Steinway on

a window ledge-and as he starts to drop...

...there is a SHARP JERK on his- COLLAR, a SHIRT BUTTON

caroms off his cheek, and slowly, he is hauled back.

GRADY looks up into Sara's freckled face.

He wants to say more, he opens his mouth, but then... ALL

GOES BLACK AS SARA'S VOICE CALLS...

faintly at first, then more forcefully, calling Grady's

name, calling so insistently that the earth seems to RUSH

upward until we see that she is...

KISSING him or something, and all goes softly... Blue.

GRADY lies in a powder blue paper gown surrounded by blue

plastic curtains in a blue room. Through a gap in the

curtains, he can see the bottle of-GLUCOSE that drips

slowly into his arm, and beyond, a window. Flakes of SNOW

fall outside.

The DOOR SQUEALS, a SHADOW ripples across the blue, then

the curtains part and a RESIDENT with a clipboard appears.

His NAMETAG says GREENHUT.

GRADY considers the larger ramifications of this

statement

Greenhut glances up, looking GRADY in the eyes for the

first time, and GRADY

stops.

Greenhut studies Grady, calibrating the desperation in

his eyes, then takes a quick glance at his watch.

GRADY sits in a WHEELCHAIR, watching the snow fail around

him as a NURSE escorts him through the tunnel of glass that

connects one building to another.

GRADY stares through the glass. There are only TWO BABIES

on display, heads dented from natural delivery, skin purple

and crazy with veins.

The nurse's eyes crinkle.

GRADY pays a TAXI CAB DRIVER, then turns,     looks at

the Gaskell house.

GRADY KNOCKS. Nothing. Peers into the living room window.

Dark.  He stands helplessly, then spies the greenhouse,

standing ghostly across the yard, feathers of snow drifting

onto its roof, melting.

GRADY hobbles to the greenhouse, puts both hands to the

glass as he looks inside. Quiet. Empty. Dispirited, he

pulls away, but not before leaving...

...the IMPRINTS of his hands, perfectly etched in the

frost of the glass.

The snow continues to fall as GRADY lumbers down the

street. Finally, wearily, he stops, sits his crippled self

on the curb. He plunges his fist into his jacket and.

..straight through the lining, James Leer's silly little

pistol at the end of his hand. He considers the pistol,

then looks up into the sky.

GRADY'S POV - of the SKY...

...dark and menacing. Suddenly, a THUNDERCLAP shatters

the silence.

NEW ANGLE - GRADY ...still sitting with the gun in his

hand.

GRADY sits, blinking the snow out of his eyes, then TWO

SHAFTS of-LIGHT dance across his shoes. A white Citroen

DS23 appears.  It passes.  Slows.  Stops.

GRADY stares at the car, burbling at the curb, then lifts

himself up and makes his way to the driver's window. Sara

makes a face, bugging her eyes a little-mad at him, but-

not without humor. Then she rolls down the window.

Sara strokes his scalp, takes a gray hair between her

fingers. Yanks.

Sara smiles at Grady, but the mischief leaves her eyes

when she looks into his, and-she glances away.

GRADY studies her as she traces her finger around the

HOSPITAL BRACELET still encircling his wrist.

GRADY studies Sara's freckled cheeks, her anxious

profile, then turns her chin gently toward him.

Sara cocks her head.

She frowns good-naturedly.

Sara just nods, looks away, her face unreadable.

Sara turns, puts a finger on GRADY's lips...

GRADY nods, takes her hand. Looks at it as he speaks.

Sara turns, looks at Grady. Her eyes are glistening.

GRADY looks into her eyes, then rises, and we do too,

drifting above the streetlights as GRADY limps to the other

side of the car and gets in. As GRADY snaps shut his door,

the car drifts off, gradually losing itself in- the soft

veil of falling snow. After a moment, GRADY and Sara are

lost too, nothing more than a blur.

THE END

