FINAL DRAFT

June 3, 2008

EXT. VALLEY -- DAY

A MYSTERIOUS WARRIOR treks across the rugged landscape.

The warrior, his identity hidden beneath his flowing robe and

wide-brimmed hat, gnaws on a staff of bamboo.

INT. BAR

The warrior sits at a table drinking tea and gnawing on his

bamboo. The door BLASTS open. The MANCHU GANG rushes in and

surrounds him.

The Boss punches the table.

He swallows.

WHAM! The warrior delivers a punch and the whole gang goes

flying.

The gang members blindly flail about.

ONLOOKERS swoon.

ONE HUNDRED ASSASSINS appear and surround the warrior.

EXT. BAR - CONTINUOUS

The entire bar swells, packed to the rafters with ninjas.

EXT. BAR - CONTINUOUS

The roof EXPLODES and a cloud of ninjas erupts into the sky.

Like a tornado, the warrior spins and knocks them all down.

The warrior beats up a thousand ninjas, delivering his final

blow while doing a split between two trees.

The warrior stands amongst a field of vanquished foes as god-

rays shine down upon him.

As the Five salute the warrior, he turns to see more bandits

approaching. The Five strike an attack pose. The warrior

brandishes a shiny green sword and leaps off the mountain

into the sea of bandits.

In mid air, the Five talk to the warrior in a strange voice.

INT. PO'S ROOM - DAY

Po lands hard on the floor. He tries to clear his head and

wake up.

We see his room is filled with various kung fu posters

(including a poster featuring all of the Five) and souvenirs,

and a wooden version of the Sword of Heroes (the green

sword).

Po SIGHS.

He attempts to kick himself to his feet but alas, his belly

is too worthy a foe.

Po hops to his feet, imitating his Kung Fu action figures.

OUTSIDE on the balcony of the neighboring house, a pig

watering flowers stares at Po. Po tries to play it cool and

then quickly ducks out of sight.

He takes a ninja star from his floor and chucks it at the

wall. It bounces off.

He throws the star again, but it bounces off again. He picks

it up and heads downstairs. He trips and falls the rest of

the way.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Po falls flat on his face on the kitchen floor. A panda-

shaped shadow looms over Po.

Reveal that the shadow is actually caused by a basket being

carried by a small DUCK. This is PO'S DAD. Po gets to work,

which is not easy since the kitchen's not really made for a

panda his size.

He gets back to work.

Push in on Po -- is he going to admit his dream? He hides his

throwing star behind his back.

THOK. Dad stops chopping vegetables.

Po hands a noodle bowl to a customer, then realizes his

throwing star is sitting in it.

He throws his arms around Po.

When Dad pulls out of the hug, Po is now wearing a noodle

apron.

Po looks at the apron nervously -- what has he gotten himself

into?

Po looks surprised.

Dad gets a wistful look in his eyes.

He loads Po's arms with bowls of soup.

A GONG sounds in the distance. Po looks out the window at the

distant JADE PALACE.

EXT. JADE PALACE - DAY

SLAM ZOOM in towards Palace.

End next to palace on an old red panda (SHIFU) playing a

FLUTE. He is surrounded by the bushes and trees that nestle

between the Palace buildings.

Wider: We dolly around from behind the bushes. Stealthy dark

shapes move in the foreground.

Back on Shifu, still playing. He seems oblivious.

Five figures explode from the undergrowth simultaneously,

diving on Shifu.

Shifu moves like lightning - the flute now wielded like a

staff - he deflects, blocks, dodges, parries - the attackers

go flying -

They roll and pick themselves up, turning to face Shifu, who

is now standing - poised - ready for their next move.

He uses his flute to correct the Five's technique.

Each of the Five bows respectfully as their name is

mentioned.

Shifu suddenly points the flute at a scared PALACE GOOSE.

Shifu looks up, concerned.

INT. HALLWAY

Shifu strides purposefully down the hallway, which is lined

with palace geese.

INT. SCROLL ROOM - DAY

Candles, incense, and smoke fill the room. The door bursts

open, the candles flicker. Shifu enters.

He bows. Then looks up without unbowing.

Reveal Master Oogway... a wise, old tortoise.

Shifu looks up, concerned. Oogway opens his mouth... and

blows out a candle. And another candle. And another.

Finally, Shifu uses his Kung Fu to blow them all out. Oogway

smiles knowingly.

Shifu looks stricken.

FLASHBACK - INT. SCROLL ROOM

Quick, impressionistic images of Shifu battling a large,

shadowy figure (Tai Lung).

PRESENT - INT. SCROLL ROOM

Shifu is rattled. He looks at the claw marks that still scar

the wall and quickly looks away. But he regains his

composure.

Shifu makes a split decision.

He comes flying in. Shifu gets in his face.

The goose flies off, but... SMACK! He hits a column. Then he

is off. Back on Oogway, as he walks toward camera, away from

Shifu.

Oogway looks into the water of the moon pool.

Shifu and Oogway stare into the pool. Oogway settles the

water, revealing the reflection of an intricately carved

dragon clutching a SCROLL in its mouth.

Dramatic music as we push in on Oogway's face. Then...

INT. NOODLE SHOP - DAY

Po is serving customers, but has trouble squeezing between

tables.

He sucks his belly in, but this causes his butt to interfere

with a bunny family's meal.

A couple palace geese put up a poster on the wall and a

palace pig hits a tiny gong. This gets Po's attention. He

rushes up to the poster.

Customers jump up excitedly.

Po urges the villagers out the restaurant.

Customers rush to finish their food.

Other customers are finishing their soup.

One old lady customer slowly counts out coins and puts them

on the table.

He starts to run.

Po stops dead in his tracks, busted.

Po wants to say something to his dad, but he loses his nerve.

EXT. VALLEY SQUARE - DAY

Throngs of Villagers are streaming into the arena. A couple

BUNNY KIDS run by.

Where's Po?

PAN DOWN a long, long, long, long flight of stairs. Po stands

at the bottom with his noodle cart, looking up at the

daunting task before him.

Po struggles to pull his noodle cart up the stairs.

The sun beats down on Po, but he presses forward. Climbing.

Climbing.

EXT. VALLEY SQUARE - LATER

Po is still struggling up the stairs.

He stops, flopping onto his back to catch his breath.

WIDEN TO REVEAL he's only made it up seven steps.

Two Pigs pass by.

Po watches as they run up the stairs. His eyes narrow. This

is his heroic moment.

Po tosses off his hat and apron and begins his ascent up the

stairs.

EXT. JADE PALACE - ARENA PLATFORM

Oogway reaches the bottom of the palace stairs and a Palace

Pig bangs a gong.

As Shifu contemplates what this could mean, Oogway starts

walking off. Shifu quickly joins Oogway as they head towards

the roaring crowd below. The pig bangs the gong.

EXT. VALLEY SQUARE - DAY

Throngs of Villagers are streaming into the arena.

EXT. TOP OF STAIRS - DAY

Po gasps for air as he hoists himself over the last step,

laughing victoriously.

The doors to the palace arena begin to close.

Po runs to the entrance and proceeds to bang on the door.

DRUMS inside drown out Po's pounding. He yells.

Inside, spectators' screams drown out Po's yelling.

Po panics for a beat and then finds a window. He jumps and

weakly struggles to pull himself up.

Po struggles to peek through the window.

INT. PALACE ARENA - CONTINUOUS

The Five jump into the middle of the ring.

Po manages a brief glimpse of the Five before a gust of wind

knocks Po to the ground and shuts the window.

Po runs over to a crack in the wall.

Inside the arena, Po catches a glimpse of Crane as he spreads

his wings.

One of the spectators walks in front of Po, cutting off his

view.

Po backs up to get a better look at Crane in the sky and

accidentally falls down the stairs.

Po climbs back up and drops his head -- he missed it.

MONTAGE:

Po tries karate chopping the door open...to no avail. He

slumps to the ground.

Po attempts a pole vault, but falls on his back. The pole

whips around and hits him into the arena wall.

Po rigs a catapult, only to get clobbered by it. The crowd

CHEERS.

Po sits atop the stairs. Alone.

Po snaps to attention.

Po pulls on a rope tied to a tree.

Tigress sets up to deliver her move.

Po launches himself up above the fence, gets a peek at

Tigress, then falls out of view just as she does her move.

Po lands outside the arena in a fireworks tent.

INT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY

Oogway senses something. He raises his hand and the crowd

hushes.

Shifu motions for the Five to gather in the center of the

ring.

EXT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY

Po comes to.

He sees the fireworks and has an idea.

INT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY

Oogway closes his eyes and raises his hand as ceremonial

DRUMS start to play.

EXT. TOURNAMENT RING - DAY

Po struggles with something, his back turned to us. Reveal he

has tied a load of fireworks to a chair. He hops on and

lights the fuse.

Po's Dad rushes over and tries to blow out the fuse.

Po looks uneasy.

He looks at the fuse... almost all gone... Po holds onto the

chair for dear life, closes his eyes, and braces himself for

liftoff.

Po finally opens his eyes...

He's still on the ground. The fuse was a dud. Po falls face

first into the dirt. He looks away, embarrassed. Po's Dad

holds out his apron.

Po sighs, starts to reach for the apron, then-- BOOM! The

rockets ignite, propelling Po into the stadium wall.

Po's rocket chair blasts him into the sky amid a shower of

fireworks.

Po climbs up and up...until the rockets die out and the chair

loses power...

Oogway's arm sweeps down the line of the expectant Five... Po

falls towards the center of the ring...

The tension builds as the Five wait to see who will be

picked. Then... SMASH!

Po lands and kicks up a huge dirt cloud, obscuring the ring.

INT. ARENA

PO POV: He sees the Five looking down at him, appalled. Po

comes round slowly, getting his bearings. He looks around and

sees Oogway. Strangely, the old turtle is smiling.

He looks up. An awful realization starts to dawn. Po GULPS.

He is desperately embarrassed.

He tries to shuffle his butt out of there, mumbling

apologies.

Po tries moving out of the way of Oogway's finger, but it

keeps following him.

Oogway grabs Po's hand and holds it up for all to see.

The pig bangs the gong.

The crowd goes wild! They cheer! They scream! Confetti falls!

A palanquin is carried past Shifu.

Po stands there, utterly stunned, his mouth hanging open. He

is abruptly lifted up out of shot.

Cut to the Palace Geese straining.

Po is being lifted with great effort on the palanquin. He is

carried off. Shifu elbows his way urgently through the

thronging crowd to get to Oogway.

Oogway smiles benignly as we hear an off-screen CRASH!

The camera adjusts to reveal the palanquin has collapsed

under Po.

Shifu looks at Oogway. Oogway just smiles.

A squad of burly pigs rushes in and hoists Po, the palanquin,

and the Geese onto their shoulders, and they head off for the

Jade Palace. Stunned, Shifu watches them go.

Behind him, the Five approach and bow.

Shifu spins around.

Confetti flutters through the air as the celebration

continues around them.

EXT. PRISON -- NIGHT

A huge prison is carved into the side of a frozen mountain.

Fifteen stories of iron and rock. No windows. One door --

locked, bolted and sealed tight. Rhinoceros guards in armor

patrol the perimeter.

Zeng, the palace goose, flies into frame and a Rhino Sentry

spots him in the distance. He lands, sliding on the ice and

crashing into the gate. The rhinos point their spears at him.

CLANG! The doors creak open. The terrified goose peers in.

INT. PRISON -- A MOMENT LATER

The Goose is quaking in fear. Stern Rhinos surround him,

staring daggers at him. The Commander snaps the scroll shut.

ON A BRIDGE

The Goose is awed by the cavernous prison.

The goose looks over the bridge's edge. The prison goes down

a long ways. The commander hits the goose on the back.

A feather from the goose drifts down the prison.

AT THE ELEVATOR

Several guard rhinos winch the goose and the commander down.

The commander grabs the chain and shakes the elevator, trying

to scare the goose.

The commander just laughs. The elevator finally lands,

sending an echo throughout the prison.

AT DOORS -

A number of doors unlock, one after the other. Finally, a

drawbridge is lowered out onto an island.

He shoves the goose out ahead of him.

They approach TAI LUNG, a giant, muscular snow leopard bound

in a giant piece of tortoise shell armor and chains. He

barely registers signs of life. The commander walks right up

to him.

The goose can't believe it.

The Commander stomps on Tai Lung's tail. We hear a crunch.

The goose flinches. But Tai Lung does not react.

Tai Lung doesn't move. His eyes stare coldly straight ahead.

The Commander starts to walk back to the elevator. The goose

hurries after him.

The goose's feather flutters into frame. We follow the

feather as it lands right in front of Tai Lung.

HIS EYES OPEN. Tai Lung grabs the feather with his tail.

INT. JADE PALACE - HALLWAY

The palace doors open to reveal Po on the palanquin, hundreds

of villagers behind him.

Po is ushered in and the doors close. He is alone. He runs

back to the closed palace doors.

Po finally realizes where he is.

He rushes up to a display of armor.

He rushes up to a green sword, making sure not to touch it.

He stares at a black sopt on the wall.

He admires a painting.

Po runs around the room, amazed by all the ancient kung fu

artifacts. Something special catches Po's eye.

He runs over to it.

Po GASPS.

Po turns and sees Shifu.

Po turns back to the vase.

Po bumps the vase which falls and BREAKS.

The vase debris screams as Po tries to pick up the pieces.

Po fumbles around. Shifu looks irked.

Shifu smiles and shakes his head.

He points to a dragon on the ceiling with a single scroll in

its mouth.

Shifu walks around Po - pointing out his weaknesses.

Shifu HITS Po on the butt with his staff.

Shifu SWATS Po on the arm with his staff.

Shifu HITS Po in the belly with his staff.

Shifu pinches Po's outstretched digit.

Po nervously eyes his finger locked in Shifu's grip and nods

quickly.

INT. TRAINING HALL

The doors open, revealing Po nursing his wounded finger.

Shifu steps out of the way and Po's face goes into shock. The

Five are performing death-defying kung fu moves in the

training hall. Tigress smashes a swinging, spiked ball of

wood. ANGLE ON AN AWESTRUCK PO, as shards of wood blast into

his face. Po is intimidated and overwhelmed.

Shifu scowls at Po.

He gestures to the gauntlet. Po's eyes go wide.

Shifu walks away and Po half-heartedly follows.

Po points at a rather friendly-looking dummy.

Relieved, Po turns to the dummy. The Five gather around him.

Mantis gives him a look.

Po psyches himself up, doing some Jack Fu.

Shifu and the Five stare at Po, perplexed.

Po lightly hits the dummy and it rocks back into place.

Po punches it again, knocking it all the way backwards. He

turns to Shifu, smug.

WHAP! The dummy rights itself and smacks Po. Totally dazed,

Po trips and stumbles his way through the obstacle course.

The Five instinctively step forward to help Po, but Shifu

holds up his hand to stop them.

BACK ON PO

A spiky tethered ball sends Po flying into the jade turtle

exercise, where it rattles him around.

Back to Po in the turtle bowl.

The turtle spills him out and he stumbles into the army of

wooden dummies.

The last dummy whaps him in the crotch and everything becomes

still.

He struggles to get on his feet, takes one step and reaches

out to a dummy arm...and immediately gets pummeled all over

again. Po comes out the other side battered and bruised and

finds he is standing on the floor that shoots out bursts of

flame. We see reflections of fire on the Five and Shifu as Po

gets singed. He comes crawling into frame.

EXT. BUNKHOUSE - NIGHT

The Five are walking to the bunkhouse, which sits high on a

hill.

As the others walk off, we reveal Po, who unbeknownst to them

has been walking behind them this whole time, hearing

everything.

He attempts to look at his toes but just sees gut. He lifts

up his stomach, leans forward... leans... leans... and falls

over.

He gets up and watches them go inside. He sighs.

INT. BUNKHOUSE

Po peeks around the corner.

He tip-toes into the hall.

SQUEAK. The floorboards strain beneath him. SQUEAK.

Po takes a gentle step. CRE-E-E-A-AA--CHUNK! Po's foot goes

through the floor. Po tries to recover. SQUEAK-SQUEAK-SQUEAK!

THUNK! Po rolls his ankle and stumbles through a bedroom

door.

Crane is staring back at him.

Crane looks at his wing.

Po does a spastic series of Kung Fu moves. We hear a RIP, and

reveal that he's kicked his foot through the paper wall.

Po looks stung to be hearing this from one of his heroes.

Crane stops Po before he embarrasses himself even more.

Po is mortified, but covers.

Po shuts the door. Crane sighs. The door flies open. Po

enters with an eager smile.

Po backs out into the hall and closes the door.

Po turns and walks down the hall to find a vacant room. CREAK-

CREAK.

Tigress opens the door behind him. Po winces.

She closes the door on Po, who slumps sadly.

EXT. JADE PALACE - NIGHT

A dejected Po stands under a peach tree in the moonlight.

Oogway approaches.

Po spins around, his face dripping with peach juice.

Po sighs, there's no use trying to lie to Oogway.

Po looks confused.

Oogway hits the tree with his staff as he walks away and a

peach falls into Po's open hand.

INT. PRISON -- NIGHT

Using the goose's feather to pick the lock, Tai Lung BURSTS

free from his armor.

An ALARM RINGS OUT!

The Commander runs to the ledge, the Goose right behind him.

The Goose looks over the edge and sees Tai Lung at the bottom

of the pit.

Tai Lung struggles with his shackles.

Tai Lung uses the incoming spears to break his shackles and

then manages to kick the spears back up into the walls,

creating a makeshift staircase.

The Commander shuts the Goose up.

The winch turns and the elevator starts to rise. A rhino

guard tries to reach it, but just misses.

Leaping across the spears, Tai Lung catches the elevator as

the volley of arrows flies down past him.

The guards cut the rope and the elevator crashes back down to

the bottom of the pit.

Tai Lung swings up from the bottom of the elevator house and

catches the guards by surprise. He grabs the chain and jumps

over the edge and swings around, launching himself up to the

next tier, disappearing into the shadows.

Tai Lung lands on a bridge, fights his way through, finally

reaching the top tier where the Commander and the rest of the

Rhino army await.

The Commander hushes the Goose.

Archers set off charges on the ceiling. Massive stalactites

crash down and the bridge begins to crumble. Tai Lung leaps

across the crumbling debris and attempts one last huge jump

towards the Commander. But he falls short, claws scraping and

sparking against the rock wall. The Commander laughs

maniacally.

On his way down, Tai Lung looks up and sees a fuse burning

down to the last group of explosives. He leaps across the

raining debris up to the ceiling of the cavern.

Grabbing a hold of the dynamite, Tai Lung falls and slings it

ahead of him at the guards.

EXT. PRISON

KA-THOOM! The door blasts open and Rhinos go flying

everywhere.

WHUMP. The Goose hits the ground. The commander's horn

prosthetic falls in front of him.

Tai Lung picks up the Goose by the throat.

With a creepy tenderness, Tai Lung smooths the Goose's

ruffled feathers.

Tai Lung throws the Goose into the air and he flutters off.

Lightning strikes.

EXT. BUNKHOUSE - MORNING

CLOSE-UP of a gong being struck.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shifu enters the hallway of the bunkhouse. The Five burst out

of their rooms and land, ready for inspection.

One door remains closed.

He slides open Po's door. The room is empty.

EXT. TRAINING HALL - MOMENTS LATER

Shifu walks with a bit more energy.

INT. JADE PALACE - MOMENTS LATER

Shifu enters the training hall, only to find himself face-to-

face with Po's butt. Shifu and the Five are taken aback.

Reveal Po is in the middle of the floor, his legs spread wide

apart. Po looks back over his shoulder to see Shifu and the

Five enter the hall.

Crane approaches Po.

Crane gingerly grabs Po's waistband and attempts to pull him

up by flapping his wings.

Crane pulls him up and Po flops onto his back.

Shifu flings two boards into the air. Instantly, Tigress

leaps up and executes a perfect split kick. Po is awestruck.

As Tigress lands, the broken chunks of board land all around

Po, knocking him on the head.

Po collects a piece of splintered board as a souvenir. Shifu

notices and steps forward.

He laughs excitedly and salutes Shifu.

MONTAGE

Shifu snaps his fingers. Viper and Po face off.

Viper lashes her tail around Po's wrist, wrenches his arm

back, flings him into the air and brings him crashing back

down on his head.

Shifu snaps.

Monkey twirls a bamboo staff. He lunges at Po who takes a

comical beating.

Shifu snaps.

Po and Crane prepare to spar atop the turtle bowl. CRASH. Po

falls in and is tossed around like a sack of soup.

Shifu snaps.

We see a series of shots of Po falling on his face at the

hands of some invisible opponent, who turns out to be...

Mantis.

Shifu smiles. Flat on his back, Po manages a salute. Shifu

has had it.

Po looks excited.

The Five exchange worried looks.

Po doesn't even finish the step as Shifu whirls him around

and throws him to the floor pinning his arm behind him.

Shifu whips Po around again.

Again, this time Shifu holds Po by the nose.

Po is totally inspired.

At his breaking point, Shifu flings Po into the air and then

leaps at him with a flying kick.

EXT. TRAINING HALL - CONTINUOUS

Po crashes out of the door and tumbles down the steps.

The Five watch him fall.

Cut WIDE as Po continues to tumble.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - EVENING

Close on Po, who grimaces.

Mantis pops up from behind Po holding a handful of needles

and sticks Po again.

Po looks for Mantis...

...But Mantis is now on his other shoulder. He jabs another

needle into Po.

Viper is holding a diagram of acupuncture meridians (onto

which someone has overlaid a drawing of a panda.)

Quick cuts to Monkey meditating in his room and Crane doing

calligraphy in his. Po's yelps distract them.

Po chuckles. The others look at each other and chuckle

awkwardly.

He violently jabs another needle in Po.

Cut to Tigress out in the hallway. She can hear them talking.

Tigress enters.

Crane's shadow is silhouetted on the wall.

Tigress turns to Po.

Tigress approaches Po and leans in towards him.

Tigress shakes her head at the panda's ignorance.

EXT. TRAINING HALL

FLASHBACK. Shifu peeks out of the Training Hall and finds a

baby leopard cub on the steps.

Baby Tai Lung pulls on Shifu's whiskers.

Baby Tai Lung punches the training dummy across the floor.

Shifu teaches Baby Tai Lung how to punch.

Hard cut to a full-grown Tai Lung demolishing a training

dummy.

Tai Lung ransacks a village on his way up to the Jade Palace.

He crashes through the doors, running towards a waiting Shifu

and Oogway.

Shifu leaps at Tai Lung to deliver a kick.

Seeing only baby Tai Lung running towards him, Shifu pulls

his kick short. Tai Lung counters with a devastating strike

and Shifu crashes to the ground holding his broken leg.

Tai Lung leaps for the scroll, but Oogway stops him with

strikes at his pressure points. He falls to the ground in a

heap.

Young Tigress in the training hall strikes the dummy in the

same manner as Tai Lung. Shifu corrects her form. Nothing

more. Young Tigress looks crestfallen.

The sad, young Tigress cross-dissolves to adult Tigress.

INT. BUNKHOUSE - EVENING

Everyone is quiet in the moment.

Po makes a googly-eyed face.

Mantis pops up and halts Tigress.

Po falls face first to the floor, revealing his back is

covered with needles.

INT. TRAINING HALL - NIGHT

Shifu is sitting in meditation, fidgeting incessantly.

He finally opens one eye.

Satisfied with the silence, Shifu nods and resumes his

meditation.

BOOM. Zeng drops in from the ceiling.

EXT. JADE PALACE GROUNDS - EVENING

Oogway stands under the peach tree, deep in thought. Shifu

rushes in, emerging from the mist, extremely agitated.

He turns to face Shifu and stares at him, eyebrow raised.

Shifu kicks the tree and a peach falls to his feet.

A peach falls on his head and Oogway chuckles. Shifu tosses

the peach in the air, leaps up, and splits it with a chop.

Shifu punches the ground, creating a hole and places the seed

in it.

Oogway covers the seed with dirt.

Oogway smiles, then glances up at the sky, then back down to

Shifu.

He hands his staff to a confused Shifu.

Oogway backs away into the swirling fog.

The petals surround Oogway as he approaches the cliff's edge.

Shifu runs after him. Oogway is engulfed by peach blossoms.

As the winds settle, Shifu is revealed standing at the edge

of a cliff.

Oogway is gone.

We pan across to the bunkhouse.

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Reveal Po is cooking for the Five.   He chops some veggies mid-

air.

Po flips some bowls and expertly lines them up on his arm. He

ladles soup into them.

Po looks around expectantly and the Five (minus Tigress) dig

in.

The others laugh. But not Tigress.

Tigress looks up from her meal.

On the others for a beat. Then Po shrugs.

Po laughs. He picks up his bowl and takes a giant gulp. When

he lowers the bowl, we see a noodle hanging from his face --

it looks like a moustache. Mantis snickers.

The rest start laughing. Po realizes he's wearing a noodle

moustache. He plays it up.

The Five LAUGH.

The Five keep LAUGHING. Po reaches over and grabs two empty

bowls and holds them up like ears.

As the rest of the Five laugh, Tigress sneaks a moment to

smell Po's soup. Leaning towards the bowl, she suddenly looks

up and stops. The Five also look up and stop laughing.

Reveal Shifu has entered behind Po. He is holding Oogway's

staff.

Po looks at the stone-faced Five. Tigress jumps to her feet.

He finally notices Shifu standing there, doing a slow burn.

Embarrassed, he places the soup bowls on his chest like a

bra.

Po slurps up the noodle moustache. Monkey can't help but

snicker.

The bowls fall off. A beat as this sinks in... then Po starts

to laugh.

Shifu just stares at him, deadly serious.

They notice Shifu holding Oogway's staff. They know what this

means. They are saddened by the news.

He dramatically points at Po... but Po is gone.

Shifu throws up his hands in frustration and heads after Po.

EXT. BUNKHOUSE  DAY

Super wide shot as Po runs away from the compound. Closer as

he continues running. He checks over his shoulder, turns

back... Shifu lands right in front of him.

He tries to maneuver around Shifu, but is redirected back.

He pushes Po back with the staff.

Shifu pokes him again, this time causing Po to fall on his

back.

Po shoves the staff away and gets up.

Po looks down at the Valley, then turns back to Shifu.

In frustration, Shifu yells out the answer.

Shifu walks away, leaving the path open to Po.

EXT. JADE PALACE - NIGHT

Tigress stands in the moonlight outside the palace. She has

seen what just transpired between Shifu and Po.

She turns away, a look of resolve on her face... and LEAPS.

She flies through the air, finally landing on a rooftop in

the valley below. She looks back up at the palace.

She takes off running.

The other four are right behind her.

She keeps going and they give chase.

The chase continues through the village.

Then...the others join her. Tigress smiles. They leap off

into the night.

EXT. JADE PALACE - EVENING

Night dissolves to dawn. Shifu sits under the peach tree. He

stirs, hearing KUNG FU NOISES from the training hall. He goes

to investigate.

INT. TRAINING HALL - DAWN

Shifu looks inside -- it's empty. The NOISES continue from

somewhere else -- the bunkhouse.

INT. KITCHEN - DAWN

As Shifu turns the corner he sees Po's shadow as he performs

some amazing Kung Fu.

Entering the kitchen, Shifu finds Po is stuffing his face

with food. Seeing Shifu, he stops mid-munch.

In silence they eye each other. Shifu surveys the room --

broken lock, smashed doors, unhinged cabinets. Po belches.

Shifu gets a glimmer in his eye. He has an idea.

Shifu calmly exits and hides just outside the doorway,

waiting to see if his hunch is correct.

KLUMP! KLONK! THUNK! Shifu peeks back inside and finds Po

perched atop the high shelves jamming more cookies into his

mouth. Po notices Shifu walking back in.

He glances back down at Shifu, whose disbelief turns to a

wise smile.

He looks at the cookie and then can't help but eat it.

He and Po stare at each other for a beat. Then... WHOOMP! Po

slips and crashes to the kitchen floor. A cookie rolls over

to Shifu. He picks it up.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - DAWN

Shifu leads Po through the mountains.

Shifu just continues walking.

EXT. MOUNTAINS - LATER

Shifu is sitting beneath a tree. Winded and wheezing, Po

slowly works his way up the hill.

Po sets his gear down and looks around. Shifu breathes in the

morning mist as Po approaches.

Po begins to pat his armpits with water.

Po quickly stops. Realizing.

The camera cranes up to reveal they are standing on rock

shapes that resemble a yin yang symbol.

As the camera pulls further out, it pulls back through a

vision of Oogway doing Kung Fu moves.

FLASH FRAME -- Shifu leaps atop one of the rocks and looks

down at Po.

Tears of joy well up in Po's eyes.

Po sniffs the tears back and smiles.

EXT. FIELD - LATER

Shifu leads Po out into an open field.

Po scowls.

Shifu produces a bowl of dumplings.

EXT. FIELD - LATER

Po's training unfolds -- deep breathing exercises, balance

tests, push ups, sit ups, climbing, etc. Through it all, he

never gets to eat, although he does indeed learn kung fu.

EXT. CLEARING - A MOMENT LATER

Shifu sets a bowl of dumplings on a boulder.

Po stops short, suspicious.

Po grabs one of the dumplings in his chopsticks.

Po raises the dumpling to his mouth. WHOOSH! Shifu snatches

the dumpling away and eats it himself.

Po reaches again as Shifu leaps across the table and kicks

the dumpling into the air.

Shifu eats it and Po scowls.

Po and Shifu ready their chopsticks. Po slams the table and

sends the bowl of dumplings airborne. Back and forth, Po and

Shifu spar, vying for the dumplings. Until there is only one

left.

Shifu tries every trick to keep the dumpling away from Po. He

hides it underneath one of the bowls. He uses his chopsticks

as weapons to smack Po's chopsticks away. He attacks Po with

his bamboo staff.

But Po skillfully manages to best Shifu for the final

dumpling.

Shifu smiles. Po has passed the final test.

But then Po tosses the dumpling into Shifu's open hand.

Master and pupil bow to each other.

EXT. MOUNTAIN PASS

The Five race toward a rope bridge stretched between mountain

peaks.

Tai Lung appears at the other end of the bridge. He ROARS and

races toward them.

The others slash at the ropes securing the bridge to the

mountain. Tai Lung is almost upon them when Tigress cuts the

final rope. But Tai Lung is too close -- Tigress must launch

herself into him. The two cats end up in the middle of the

bridge just as it starts to tumble into the canyon below. The

Five grab support ropes and hold on for dear life.

Tai Lung laughs. It echoes off the mountain walls.

The Five exchange quick, worried looks.

The Five exchange quick, confused looks.

Tigress charges at him. The battle begins. Tigress punches

Tai Lung as he hangs from the bridge. But Tai Lung counters

with a maneuver that sends Tigress slamming backwards through

the bridge's wooden slats. Then Tigress gets choked by the

bridge's ropes. Monkey turns to Crane and Viper.

Viper grabs Tai Lung, which causes him to let go of the

ropes. Tigress plummets down into the gorge... but Crane

manages to catch her. Viper punches Tai Lung repeatedly with

his own fist. Tai Lung manages to get a paw around Viper's

"throat".

ANGLE ON MANTIS AND MONKEY. Mantis is straining to hold the

rope by himself.

Monkey leaps into action, kicking Tai Lung in the chest and

sending him crashing through the slats of the bridge. He gets

back to his feet and starts running back to them on a single

strand of rope.

Mantis whips his end of the rope, sending a sine wave

shooting toward Tai Lung. The rope whips Tai Lung in the face

and he gets tangled up. The Five see their chance.

Working as a team, the Five kick Tai Lung's butt every which

way. Tigress finally slashes the last rope holding up Tai

Lung. He plummets down... down... disappearing into the mist.

Mantis whips his end of the rope, returning his buddies

safely to the mountain.

The Five look relieved. But the relief is short-lived...

Tigress notices that the other end of the bridge is circling

the far mountain peak. Her eyes go wide with dread. The rope

whips up. But Tai Lung isn't there.

With a crash, he suddenly appears behind the Five.

Tai Lung jabs a finger at Monkey, who instantly freezes.

Tai lung lunges toward the rest.

EXT. TRAINING HALL - EVENING

Shifu and Po walk through the palace courtyard. Po has an

easy spring in his step.

He swings his belly around and knocks Shifu off balance.

Shifu staggers back, regaining his dignity.

After a moment's thought, though, he leans toward Po -

And he punches him playfully on the arm. Po smiles at him. As

they LAUGH, an indistinct figure appears in the clouds behind

them. IT'S CRANE!

Crane carries the five to the palace grounds, crashing in a

heap.

Po throws his backpack aside and runs over to them.

Crane struggles to lift his head.

His head collapses to the ground.

Shifu starts freeing the Five. First Viper, then Mantis, then

Monkey releases suddenly from his paralysis -

He delivers a Kung Fu punch to Po's head and then slowly

realizes where he is.

Shifu kneels before Tigress and works to free her.

INT. SCROLL ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

CLOSE-UP of the Dragon Scroll. Po stares at Shifu - then

looks up at the Scroll. Then back at Shifu -

They look at each other. This is a big moment.

Oogway's staff hangs in a rack surrounded by candles. As Po

and The Five stand by, Shifu carries the staff over to the

reflecting pool. Shifu bows his head, then, eyes still

closed, he raises the staff up above his head. Po and the

others watch, expectantly. The peach blossom petals rise in a

flickering, spinning cloud up from the pool. The gentle

tornado rises up around the ceiling carving that holds the

Dragon Scroll. The petals loosen the scroll from the dragon's

mouth and it falls. At the last second, Shifu reaches out

with the staff to catch the scroll on the end of it. He turns

to Po, holding it out.

Po takes a deep breath. Then he grasps the tube and tries to

pull the top off it. It doesn't budge. He strains at it.

He strains again. He tries to bite it off...

Shifu SIGHS and holds out his hand. Po passes him the tube.

Shifu pops the end off effortlessly and passes it back to Po.

He glances at the Five. They look on in awe. Monkey gives him

the `thumbs up.' Po starts to unroll the scroll, the golden

light bathing his face. Across the scroll we see Shifu,

excited that he is witness to history...

On Po's face as he finishes opening the scroll.

Then -

Shifu looks concerned. The Five look concerned. Po looks

utterly terrified.

Po tries to show Shifu the scroll. Shifu covers his eyes and

turns his head away.

But he can't help himself. He takes a peek. Then he GRABS if

off Po. He turns it around, then upside down. He closes it

and opens it again, astonished.

Shifu turns away, contemplative. What can this mean?

Po sits heavily on the floor, dejected.

The Five don't argue.

Shifu puts the scroll back in its container and seals it. He

looks oddly calm as he turns around.

The Five and Po look devastated.

Shifu salutes them and turns away. Po is heartbroken. Crane

steps forward and kindly puts a wing around Po, pulling away.

Po resists for a moment, then lets the Five lead him off.

EXT. VALLEY

The Five arrive at the base of the stairs.

Monkey picks up a small child.

They split up and begin helping the villagers evacuate. Po is

left by himself.

He makes his way through the bustling town.

Po approaches the Noodle Shop.

Seeing Po, Po's Dad hurries over and wraps his arms around

his son. Po bends down to reciprocate the hug, as Po's dad

pulls away, having fastened an apron around Po's waist.

Po's Dad goes back to packing things up.

Dad starts to walk off, unaware that Po isn't following.

He turns and notices that Po hasn't moved. He walks to Po

sympathetically.

Po slumps against the cart.

Dad is taken aback.

Dad pauses dramatically.

Po feigns excitement.

Po looks at his father with dawning realization. He picks up

the Scroll.

For a moment, Po stares at his reflection on the scroll, then

he smiles serenely. He gets it now.

Po turns back to look at the palace.

EXT. JADE PALACE - DAWN

At the top of the stairs, Shifu looks upon the Valley,

awaiting his fate. With a gust of wind, Tai Lung appears

before him.

They fight. At last. Tai Lung punches Shifu clean through the

doors of the Jade Palace.

Tai Lung enters.

Dissolve to FLASHBACK.

A young Tai Lung looks expectant. Oogway shakes his head.

Tai Lung looks to Shifu who averts his eyes and the past

dissolves into the present.

Shifu takes a Kung Fu stance.

Enraged, Tai Lung knocks over the Kung Fu artifacts and

throws them at Shifu.

Shifu dodges each attack.

Tai Lung pulls Oogway's staff from the shrine.

They fight. Tai Lung pins Shifu down with the staff.

They struggle for a beat until finally, the staff splinters

into a hundred pieces. Shifu looks back at the pieces and a

flutter of peach tree petals fly by. Caught off guard, Shifu

gets kicked by Tai Lung into a column.

Shifu climbs the column to the rafters. Tai Lung follows and

sends them both crashing through the roof.

Lightning flash.

Grappling in mid-air, Tai Lung gets his hands around Shifu's

throat as they crash back through the roof.

They kick apart. Shifu crashes to the floor and lands hard.

Tai Lung bounces off the wall and throws a lantern to the

floor. Flames go everywhere. Tai Lung's arms are aflame as he

charges at Shifu.

THOOM! A fiery punch sends Shifu skidding across the floor

and crashing against the reflecting pool. The flames

extinguish and Tai Lung extends his claws.

Tai Lung stops in his tracks. Shifu waits. Tai Lung's

expression goes cold. He grabs Shifu by the throat.

He holds Shifu up to the ceiling. Looking up, Tai Lung

bristles when he sees the scroll is missing.

Tai Lung slams Shifu to the floor.

Tai Lung is furious. He roars, ready to strike Shifu.

Suddenly...

Tai Lung turns around to find Po standing in the doorway.

Tai Lung casts Shifu aside.

Po shows him the Dragon Scroll.

From out of nowhere, Tai Lung appears and punches Po across

the room, grabbing the scroll knocked from Po's hands.

Po bounces off a nearby pillar and slams back into Tai Lung,

sending him flying into a column. Po puts on a brave face and

strikes a pose as Tai Lung recovers and charges. Po turns to

run.

Tai Lung quickly catches up and they both sail off the Palace

steps.

Po clings to the scroll as Tai Lung delivers a kick and sends

him crashing onto the theater rooftops below.

Po rolls down off a tree and uses the recoil to whip back and

smash Tai Lung. He briefly skids across the rooftop and comes

right back at Po.

Down the Theater steps, Po and Tai Lung grapple for the

scroll. Po is oblivious to the effects of crashing down

stairs and in slow motion, his voluminous butt presses down

on Tai Lung's head. As they crash through the Gateway the

scroll is knocked loose. Tai Lung goes for the scroll but Po

snatches it away using a noodle lasso. The scroll flies

towards him and bounces off his head. Tai Lung leaps for it,

but Po grabs his tail and pulls him back down onto a cart

which see-saws Po into the air. In mid-air, Po slurps the

noodle.

Up and over the rooftops, Po lands in a grove of bamboo trees

and into a nearby wok shop. The scroll rolls to a stop in the

street.

As Tai Lung makes his move on the scroll, Po turns the array

of overturned woks into a shell game, sliding the woks around

to hide the scroll.

Tai Lung knocks the woks away and exposes the scroll as Po

uses his bamboo stilts to block Tai Lung. The leopard swipes

out the stilts and brings Po down on top of him as the scroll

rolls down the steps towards the river.

Po gets thrown into a fireworks booth. As Tai Lung chases

down the scroll, he turns back to see Po flying through the

fireworks-filled sky.

Po slams through Tai Lung and crashes into a rock wall. The

scroll flies out of his hand and lands in the mouth of an

ornamental rooftop dragon. He looks back at Tai Lung, who

sees where the scroll has landed. Via the magic of cookie-

vision, Po effortlessly scales the building. Tai Lung is

shocked.

He takes a giant leap and kicks the wall. The resulting

shockwave collapses the building.

Amazingly, Po skips across the falling roof tiles to reach

the scroll in mid-air as Tai Lung leaps up behind him and

unleashes a punishing blow that sends Po smashing into the

ground. As Tai Lung lands, he delivers a final devastating

punch.

As the dust settles, Tai Lung is looming over Po in the

impact crater.

Tai Lung grabs for the scroll and opens it. His face falls.

Po stirs.

Po gets to his feet.

Tai Lung snarls and lunges at Po.

Tai Lung attacks Po's nerve points. But Po begins giggling.

Tai Lung's nerve attack has no effect on Po. Frustrated, he

delivers a double-fisted punch to Po's belly.

The shockwave ripples through Po's entire body and Po's arms

come back and strike Tai Lung, sending the leopard crashing

back into a building. Po looks at his hands, amazed at what

he just did.

Tai Lung rises from the rubble and runs at Po again. But Po

strikes back, using an unorthodox panda-style technique, even

getting Tai Lung to chomp down on his own tail. Po gives Tai

Lung a butt bump that sends him crashing into a building. Tai

Lung emerges and attempts one more lunge at Po. But Po

prepares... and Tai Lung is swiftly met by Po's IRON BELLY!

He is launched into the air. Po waits... and waits... until

finally, Tai Lung appears in the sky and crashes to the

ground.

Tai Lung is battered, but still defiant.

SCHWING! Po grabs Tai Lung's finger. Tai Lung's eyes go wide.

Po's pinky pops up. Tai Lung gasps.

He flexes his pinky...

KA-THOOM!

EXT. VALLEY OF PEACE

A mushroom cloud appears over the Valley, sweeping past the

Furious Five and the fleeing villagers.

EXT. VALLEY SQUARE - A LITTLE LATER

Villagers emerge from hiding. Po walks out from the mist

looking very much like the warrior from the opening dream.

As he nears, we see that his hat is an upside down wok and

his scarf is a torn apron.

Villagers CHEER the Dragon Warrior. Po's Dad emerges from the

crowd.

Po hugs his dad. The wok falls off Po's head and rolls on the

ground until Mantis appears in frame and stops it. The rest

of the Five are with him. Po takes notice.

Tigress bows deeply. The others follow.

Po races toward the Jade Palace. He climbs the steps. Then

more steps.

INT. PALACE - MOMENTS LATER

Po arrives breathless at the Jade Palace. Shifu is still

lying in the scroll room, his eyes closed. Po rushes to his

side.

Shifu weakly opens his eyes.

Shifu smiles and shakes his head in disbelief.

Shifu closes his eyes. He is still. Po starts freaking out.

Po nods reverently as Shifu closes his eyes again. Master and

pupil lie next to each other. The camera pulls up and back

away from them. Po tries to remain still, but it's hard.

He's about to say something, but he stops himself. He fidgets

for a beat, then can't control himself any longer.

