INT. MEDIEVAL TIMES THEATER - NIGHT

A familiar beam of light shines down. The beam of light

descends onto a stage. Lightning flashes to reveal Prince

Charming riding his valiant steed Chauncey across the open

plains. The wind blows back his golden mane.

Lightning cracks. Thunder booms. Charming straddles a

wooden hobby horse and gallops in place. A stage hand uses a

bellow to blow air into Prince Charming's face. Another

stage hand turns a crank that creates the moving background.

In the orchestra, a man uses coconuts to create the sound

effects of a galloping horse. Two more stage hands back

stage create the cheap sound effects of thunder and

lightning. A crudely constructed castle tower sits in front

of a cheaply painted backdrop.

The Fairytale Creatures are sitting at a table in the

audience.

Pinocchio's nose grows as he is caught in the lie.

Prince Charming rides to the base of the tower.

He dismounts and sets his hobby horse on the ground. He

strikes a dramatic pose.

A Princess leans from a tower window.

Prince Charming puffs his chest out.

An old couple at a table look confused.

Prince Charming glares as the bored audience largely ignores

him.

A man in a bad ogre costume comes onto the stage.

The crowd erupts into applause. The Fairytale Creatures

cheer.

At first, Prince Charming is put off by the cheers for the

Shrek-like beast. He pulls his sword and confronts the

monster.

He is cut off as a waiter enters with a birthday cake.

Prince Charming hops out of the way when a chair lands on

stage. It slides past him and bumps into the tower facade.

The audience laughs. Prince Charming glares at them and then

tries to recover. He points his sword at the monster again.

The tower facade starts to topple.

Prince Charming looks over his shoulder and sees the facade

falling. He cringes.

The scenery slams against the stage, but Prince Charming is

unharmed, perfectly framed in the princesses' window. The

crowd laughs at the embarrassed Prince Charming. He shakes

his mangled sword at the audience.

They laugh again. Prince Charming throws down his sword,

picks up his hobby horse and exits.

The song and the laughter follow Prince Charming backstage.

INT. BACKSTAGE DRESSING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charming walks through a tunnel backstage that leads

to a door. The door has a star with his name written on it.

He opens it.

EXT. MEDIEVAL TIMES RESTAURANT - CONTINUOUS

Prince Charming sits at his broken vanity and sobs. His make-

shift dressing room is in an alley way next to the theater.

Horses whinny as a carriage passes by. The castle of Far Far

Away can be seen on the hill in the background. Prince

Charming breaks down and cries.

He looks up and sees a picture of the Fairy Godmother taped

to the vanity. "Don't stop believing! Mommy's Little Angel"

is written on the picture.

He weeps again and then looks back at the picture. A

determined change grows across his face.

Prince Charming looks at the castle on the hill. His

expression hardens. He stands and faces the castle. He

holds his chin up high.

A big gust of wind blows a newspaper page across his face.

He peels it off and looks at the headline. His eyes tense

and narrow.

In the newspaper is a picture of Shrek and Fiona waving to a

crowd.

Prince Charming crumples up the newspaper in his fists.

EXT. CASTLE - MORNING

The camera booms down from the Far Far Away sign. The sun

rises and the birds sing.

INT. SHREK AND FIONA'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The sun shines through the bedroom window as the camera pans

over to Shrek and Fiona waking up.

Shrek breathes in and smiles.

The bedroom doors fly open and Donkey and the Dronkeys rush

in. The Dronkeys head right for Shrek and Fiona. Shrek

cowers beneath the bedclothes.

Shrek sinks further into the blankets as the Dronkeys

exuberantly lick him. Fiona is amused.

Donkey starts to sing "Good Morning" from Singin' in the Rain

as he enters the room.

The Dronkeys fly out of the room, knocking down everything in

their path.

Shrek, greatly annoyed, lifts his hand and snuffs out a

little fire on the bed left behind by the Dronkeys.

Puss leaps onto the bed.

Shrek immediately pulls the covers up over his head and

starts to snore.

Donkey yanks the sheets off of Fiona and Shrek. He is

surprised to see Shrek's bare legs.

Shrek sighs.

INT. KNIGHTING CEREMONY - DAY

The camera pans down from a stained glass window. The song

"Royal Pain" by the Eels plays in the background as the

title: "Shrek The Third" is superimposed.

A large crowd has gathered to watch the knighting. Shrek

walks down the aisle of the church.

Shrek walks up to the knight who seems a bit nervous.

Shrek takes a sword from Puss, but he doesn't have any idea

what he is supposed to do with it. Shrek looks at Puss, who

indicates how to knight a person with his own sword. Shrek

starts to knight the knight.

Shrek accidentally stabs the knight.

The crowd, Fiona, Puss and Donkey look on, shocked.

EXT. BOAT DOCKS - DAY

Shrek and Fiona officiate at a boat christening for the Royal

Navy.

Shrek is holding a bottle of champagne. He leans on the

boat, accidentally pushing it down the ramp. Shrek throws

the bottle at the boat and it punches an enormous hole in the

side of the hull. The boat quickly sinks.

Shrek turns to find the patrons of Far Far Away shaking their

heads as they leave.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - DAY

Raul, the make-up specialist, tightens some aprons around

Shrek and Fiona. Donkey, Puss and Raul stand in front of

them.

Raul stares at Shrek. Shrek raises his eyebrow.

He unrolls a satchel full of different gardening tools.

Suddenly Shrek's arms and legs are strapped into a chair.

A man stands with his back to the camera and pulls on a rip

cord as if he's holding a chain saw. VROOM! VROOM! He

turns around to reveal a circular sander and starts to grind

away at Shrek's gruesome toenails. Shrek cringes.

We see a close-up of Shrek's eye. A mascara brush comes into

frame and pulls at Shrek's eyelash.

Fiona gets her nose hairs plucked.

Lipstick is applied to some lips. The camera pulls back to

reveal that the lips are Shrek's.

A hand tries to tighten a zipper on Shrek's back. It keeps

snagging on the skin until they finally rip it past and

tighten up the zipper all the way.

A small sock is placed onto Shrek's foot. With a shoe horn,

Shrek's foot is shoved into a small shoe. POP!

A collar is placed around Fiona's neck and her corset is

tightened.

A drill comes into frame and tightens the rivet on Shrek's

belt. A mole is placed on his cheek.

INT. BACKSTAGE - LATER

REVEAL: Shrek and Fiona standing awkwardly in outrageous

Renaissance outfits.

Donkey gasps.

Puss rolls his eyes.

Fiona is uncomfortable.

Off-screen, the Master of Ceremonies announces the couples

arriving at the party.

Fiona turns to Shrek and sees he is not in a good mood.

Shrek lets out another frustrated sigh.

She gives him a supportive smile. He relaxes and smiles

back.

Fiona puckers up her lips and Shrek leans in for a kiss, but

their bulky outfits prevent it.

Shrek and Fiona let out a huge breath of air.

Shrek tries to scratch his butt but to no avail.

A man holding a ruby scepter walks over to Shrek.

INT. BALLROOM - CONTINUOUS

The announcer introduces Shrek and Fiona.

The audience claps. The curtain starts to open.

Fiddlesworth is scratching away at Shrek's butt.

Fiddlesworth struggles to reach Shrek's itch. The crowd

looks on in horror. Fiona tries to get his attention.

Shrek and Fiddlesworth finally see the crowd. They both

freeze. Shrek laughs nervously.

Suddenly Shrek's belt buckle snaps off and hits Donkey in the

eye. He stumbles through the crowd screaming.

As he is stumbling, he grabs hold of a lady in the crowd.

The woman pushes Donkey away. He falls, knocking over a

guard holding an axe on his way down. The guard drops the

axe. It flies past Puss, who is in the arms of a lady. The

axe knocks over a vase. The vase flies up on stage and Fiona

maneuvers to catch it. In flight, water spills out of the

vase which causes Fiona to fall over.

Shrek's tuxedo bib slaps him in the face. The clasp holding

Shrek's pants up breaks off. Shrek stands on stage with his

pants around his ankles. He shuffles towards Fiona.

He trips over his pants and hits a loose wooden plank on the

stage. The plank flings up and sends Fiddlesworth flying

through the air where his jacket slips over a banner pole,

trapping him.

Shrek has reached Fiona who is still lying on the floor.

Fiona's eyes suddenly widen.

Fiddlesworth's jacket rips and he falls onto a waiter

carrying flaming skewers.

The skewers fly through the air. Donkey stands up in frame

with one eye half shut. The flaming skewers shoot by him and

land in the curtains, setting them on fire. He blows one of

the skewers out and takes a bite.

The fire causes a Far Far Away shield to detach from a wooden

ceiling beam and fall onto the stage, breaking it in half.

The whole stage collapses in the middle. The buffet tables

slide toward Shrek and Fiona at the other end and collide.

CRASH! BANG!

INT. SHREK AND FIONA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The door to Fiona's room flies open.

Shrek storms in pulling bits of buffet food off his face.

Shrek grabs the wig off of his head and throws it aside.

Shrek wipes off his makeup with his shirt sleeve and flings

his shirt to the floor. He falls onto the bed next to

Donkey.

Shrek startles.

Shrek picks him up and throws him out the door.

Shrek slams the door shut.

Shrek turns back towards the bed and sees Puss reclining on

his pillow.

Shrek picks Puss up by the scruff of his neck and tosses him

outside the window. He shuts it. Puss sits sadly on the

ledge, giving Shrek his sad-eyes routine. Shrek draws the

blinds.

Shrek stomps over and falls back onto the bed. Fiona tries

to calm him down.

This thought calms him. Shrek takes in a long, deep breath

and exhales. He smiles.

Shocked, Shrek falls off the bed.

He slowly emerges from behind the bed.

She grabs his hands and looks deeply into his eyes.

Shrek takes her hand.

There is a knock on the bedroom door. The door bursts open,

revealing a Royal Page.

Shrek springs up.

INT. KING'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The camera pushes through a corridor that leads to the King's

bedroom. The King is lying on his lily pad, coughing.

The King inhales and launches into a violent coughing fit.

Shrek looks a bit guilty about his last admission. The Queen

comes to the King's aid and he settles down.

The Queen is used to these kind of non-sequiturs.

The King suppresses a few coughs. He turns to his daughter.

Fiona smiles. The King addresses Shrek.

Shrek smiles.

The King starts wheezing and coughing. Eventually he stops.

They think he's dead. Puss solemnly removes his hat.

Fiona starts crying. The King suddenly wakes up, coughing.

Fiona gives Shrek a look. Shrek walks over to the King.

The King stares at Shrek, stone-faced. Shrek leans in

closer.

Shrek brightens.

Shrek leans in closer after each "is," waiting in

anticipation. The King starts to hyperventilate.

The King is dead. A fly comes out of his mouth and flies

away.

Puss starts to take his hat off. The fly buzzes into frame.

A tongue catches it. Puss puts his hat back on.

He succumbs. The King really is dead now.

Donkey bows his head.

Puss takes his hat off.

Fiona starts to cry and hugs Shrek. The weight of the King's

request hits Shrek. He is in a state of shock.

We hold a moment on the Queen, Shrek, Fiona, Puss and Donkey

to let the King's passing sink in.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

The streets of Far Far Away are empty. People are closing up

the shops on Rodeo Drive.

EXT. CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The knights of Far Far Away march toward the castle as the

flag is lowered to half-masked.

EXT. POND - LATER

Close on a statue of the late King. Shrek, Fiona, the Queen,

and all the Fairy-tale Creatures and Princesses have gathered

for the funeral. The Queen sets an old shoe box ("Ye Olde

Footlocker") on top of a lily pad and sends it floating out

into the water.

An overhead shot shows the box floating through the lily

pads. The camera tilts up to reveal a frog choir, singing

"Live and Let Die." The Princesses, Donkey, Puss and the

Fairy-tale Creatures all bow their heads solemnly.

Shrek puts his arm around Fiona.

The funeral has ended and the crowd begins to disperse.

Shrek, Fiona and the Queen stand by the pond. The Queen

sadly gazes at the pond.

EXT. A BLUFF OVERLOOKING THE CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The camera pulls back to reveal a cloaked figure, on

horseback, overlooking the funeral. The figure removes his

hood to reveal Prince Charming. He gives a smug smile, and

rides off.

EXT. POISONED APPLE BAR - NIGHT

Prince Charming rides up to the Poison Apple Bar.

INT. POISONED APPLE BAR - CONTINUOUS

Smoke wafts through the screen. The camera pans down to the

top of a piano where an ashtray with a lit cigarette burns

and a brandy sifter is filled with coins. The camera pans

over to a Singing Witch who turns around to reveal a

microphone in her hand. The Singing Witch starts to sing

"I've Never Been To Me" by Nancy Wilson.

The bar is filled with various Fairy-tale Villains. Two

pirates sit forlornly with their mugs. The Puppet Master

takes a drink out of a beer mug. He is surrounded by a bunch

of empty beer mugs.

Prince Charming enters the bar.

A group is gathered around Cyclops riding a medieval

mechanical bull, hooting and hollering. The bull stops and

the Villains turn to look at Prince Charming.

Prince Charming hangs his cape on a tree branch. The camera

adjusts right to reveal the branch is actually one of the

Evil Trees, who flings the cape to the floor. Everyone takes

notice as Prince Charming walks through. Little Red Riding

Hood is sitting on a pile of books at a table. Evil Dwarves

glare in Prince Charming's direction. Prince Charming walks

by a pair of witches (one is the Evil Queen from Snow White)

playing pool. The Evil Queen scratches when she sees him and

the pool ball goes flying into the Headless Horseman's neck.

Prince Charming walks by the singing witch. He reaches the

bar, pulls out a handkerchief, places it over the bar stool,

and sits.

Prince Charming spots the bartender with her back to him. He

clears his throat.

Mabel, the other ugly stepsister, rises up in front a poster

with a smiling beer wench.

He winks at her. She glares at him.

She spits into the mug and wipes it with a towel.

Prince Charming stands up and turns to the bar patrons.

Captain Hook rips his hook across the piano keys. The

singing witch bares her teeth. The witches break their pool

cues. The Puppet Master breaks his beer mug.

Prince Charming grows nervous.

The Villains all approach Prince Charming.

From behind the bar, Mabel grabs Prince Charming by his

shoulders and pins him on top of the bar.

Captain Hook places his hook against Prince Charming's neck.

Prince Charming turns to the Evil Queen.

Prince Charming begins to work the crowd.

Prince Charming turns to Captain Hook.

Prince Charming looks down at the hook.

Captain Hook backs off, feeling insecure about his appendage.

Rumplestiltskin caresses a pacifier tattoo on his forearm.

Prince Charming gains more confidence as he confronts Mabel.

Mabel sighs.

Prince Charming now has everyone's attention.

The crowd listens, rapt.

The crowd of villains cheer and starts getting rowdy. A bar

room brawl ensues. Prince Charming looks on, shocked. He

ducks out of the way of a flying liquor bottle. He smiles

nervously and lifts his fruity, Fuzzy Navel to drink.

EXT. DOCKS - DUSK

The camera booms down from the lighthouse.

The blind mice stumble and fall trying to get down the steps

to the dock. The Fairy-tale Creatures and Dragon have

gathered to wish Shrek, Puss and Donkey a bon voyage as they

set off to retrieve Arthur.

On the docks, two Dronkeys chase a seagull as the camera pans

over to Puss who breaks free of the embrace of a lady cat.

Off-screen, a cat meows and walks towards Puss.

Camera pulls out to reveal more and more cats approaching

Puss.

Puss starts walking away as two of the cats begin to engage

in a cat fight. They are hissing at each other as Puss backs

away from them and into another.

Puss runs out of frame. Cut to Dragon, who is talking to

Donkey. Puss runs past them in the background. Dragon lets

out a soft wail.

She gives him an understanding smile.

He blows her a kiss and she catches it. He looks down at his

children, holding back tears.

Bananas lets out a fiery sneeze.

The baby Dronkeys fly around their Daddy.

The Dronkey that Fiona is holding flies off to join Donkey

and the others.

Fiona nervously takes in a breath.

Shrek chuckles. Fiona gives him a look. Shrek reassures her.

The ship's fog horn sounds.

He kisses her and joins Puss and Donkey on the boat.

He title proudly reads: H.R.M CRUSHING RESPONSIBILITY II

The boat sets sail. The Dronkeys spell out "We Love You

Daddy" with smoke in the sky.

Donkey waves to his kids, sobs.

Fiona runs after the boat.

Shrek leans against the rail, calling out to her.

She smiles and takes a deep breath.

The Ship Captain blows a fog horn and cuts her off. Shrek

smiles back at her.

The Ship Captain starts to blow again. Shrek grabs the horn

and throws it overboard.

The Fairy-tale Creatures behind Fiona cheer.

Shrek smiles back at Fiona.

Fiona smiles as the Queen places a hand on her shoulder.

Overjoyed at the news, Donkey pops up onto the railing.

The fog horn blasts again as the boat disappears into the

fog.

EXT. BOAT CABIN - NIGHT

The boat travels along in the open sea. Shrek is fast asleep

as the boat travels through an estuary and beaches itself.

Shrek wakes up. He opens the cabin door.

He smiles to himself. The boat has beached itself right

outside of Shrek's swamp house.

He leaps off the boat.

EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shrek takes a deep breath of swamp air.

He skips and dances happily toward his house.

INT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

He sashays through the front door with his eyes closed,

presenting himself.

After a moment of silence, he opens his eyes, realizing that

Fiona is not there.

He looks around the room, puzzled. The door slams closed

behind him.

A baby carriage rolls slowly into frame behind him. He turns

slowly and sees the baby carriage covered with a blanket.

Shrek removes the blanket, revealing a baby ogre, smiling

innocently at him.

The baby burps.

This time the baby's burp turns into projectile vomit aimed

directly at Shrek. Shrek puts his hand up to block the

vomit, but to no avail. The baby continues to vomit, but

eventually stops after completely soiling himself and Shrek.

The baby looks like it's about to cry. Shrek raises his

hands.

Shrek picks the baby up, smiling at it cautiously. He holds

it awkwardly for a few seconds, then looks up and realizes

that his house is filled with babies.

Babies roll around his living room, tearing the fabric off

his chair. The chair reclines, catapulting one of the babies

onto Shrek's head. A standing lamp with a baby on top falls,

and Shrek dives to catch him. Another baby is pulling the

tablecloth, causing lethal knives to fly straight at him.

Shrek snatches the baby away just before he is impaled. One

of the babies strikes a match near the fireplace. Shrek runs

over, picks up the baby and blows out the match. He takes a

baby out of the cauldron.

Shrek panics. A baby is knocking glass jars off the shelf.

Shrek catches him before he crawls off of it. Shrek runs

through the room picking up babies.

INT. SHREK'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

After he has collected as many babies as he can, Shrek slides

open the curtain to his bedroom.

He sees a baby sitting in his bed, smiling up at him. The

baby shrugs.

Suddenly, Shrek hears a loud rumble. He turns around.

Babies start pouring out of the window and the fireplace.

First there is one, then two, then thirty more follow.

Hundreds of them start piling in.

Shrek makes a run for the doorway, but no matter how hard he

runs, the doorway keeps getting farther and farther away! He

keeps trying, hundreds of babies trailing behind.

INT. GRADUATION STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Finally, Shrek reaches the door and opens it. He slams it

shut behind him and closes his eyes. Everything is quiet.

He opens his eyes and finds himself on stage in front of his

high school.

Shrek looks up to find a graduation cap on his head. The

audience is full of ogre babies laughing at him. The camera

pulls back to reveal Shrek standing at the podium, naked.

EXT. BOAT DECK - DAWN, CONTINUOUS

Shrek's eyes pop open, he sits upright and tries to compose

himself.

Donkey and Puss turn around, but they both have baby-ogre

faces! Donkey makes a baby noise. As the camera zooms in,

Donkey's eyes glow red and his teeth become sharp and pointy.

A fog horn blows. Shrek bolts upright again. Donkey and

Puss wake up.

He breaths heavily, trying to compose himself.

Donkey and Puss look at each other. He gets up and walks to

the ship's railing.

Shrek walks away.

Donkey leans over to Puss.

Puss rolls his eyes at Donkey.

Donkey sees Shrek at the back of the boat staring out at the

distant horizon. He walks up next to his friend.

Shrek rolls his eyes.

Shrek cuts Donkey off.

Shrek slumps against the rail. Puss hops up on the railing

and whispers into Shrek's other ear.

Puss makes a "let's go fishing" gesture by casting an

imaginary rod into the ocean. Donkey is right there to

whisper in Shrek's other ear.

Donkey and Puss pause as Shrek rants.

He thinks for a moment.

Everyone turns to look at the Captain who clears his throat.

He points to shore. A majestic castle stands proudly on a

nearby bluff.

EXT. WORCESTERSHIRE ACADEMY - DAY

Shrek, Puss and Donkey stand at the entrance to the castle.

Donkey reads the sign hanging over the entrance.

The drawbridge to the castle lowers.

They start over the drawbridge.

A horse whinnies behind them. Shrek, Donkey, and Puss jump

out of the way as a medieval school bus storms by. The kids

on the back of the bus scream when they see Shrek.

Shrek suddenly looks concerned.

EXT. SCHOOL GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS

A group of cheerleaders practice.

Shrek rolls his eyes and continues on, terrifying students as

he walks through the courtyard.

The kid runs away quickly into the student parking lot where

a bunch of different style horse-drawn carriages are parked.

A carriage passes in front of Shrek that reads: "Caution -

Student Driver."

The carriage jolts forward and crashes off-screen.

Two stoner kids emerge from a medieval-style "VW" carriage.

He notices two female students discussing their love lives.

Shrek approaches them.

They flee in terror.

A pair of dorky kids play a medieval, role-playing board

game.

The students panics when his nose starts to bleed.

While Xavier tries to control the bleeding, Gary points

towards the athletic field.

EXT. JOUSTING RANGE - CONTINUOUS

In the distance, Shrek spots A BOLD KNIGHT atop his steed.

He looks very impressive as he rears up ready to charge.

Shrek, Donkey and Puss arrive to see the beginning of the

charge. It's an exciting back and forth.

Hooves pound on sand.

The Knight's eyes steady.

The horse rears majestically.

The opponent's eyes widen in fear.

The lance hits, and the opponent flies through the air and

lands in front of Shrek, Puss and Donkey.

Shrek looks back at the victorious Knight. He removes his

helmet revealing a strong handsome face. The Knight enjoys

his victory.

Shrek turns to Puss.

Shrek steps forward.

Shrek looks down, his foot planted square in the chest of

LANCELOT's opponent. Shrek steps back.

The kid doesn't budge, his arms and legs still sprawled out

where he hit the ground.

Shrek, Puss and Donkey turn back around.

EXT. JOUSTING RANGE - KNIGHTS AREA

The Knight commands his troops.

Shrek approaches the Knight.

The Knight's horse rears up and he falls off. The horse

gallops off. The Knight looks up at Shrek in fear.

Shrek scoops up the Knight, tosses him over his shoulder,

ogre-style.

Shrek stops and holds Lancelot above his head. Lancelot

tries to regain his dignity.

Lancelot points across the school yard.

He points to the TEENAGE ARTHUR, skulking away across the

school yard.

Artie turns his head briefly, but keeps on walking.

Shrek sighs and dumps Lancelot to the ground.

Shrek storms off towards the school. Puss and Donkey catch

up. One of the female students steps in front of Shrek.

The other girls giggle.

She pops her gum.

INT. HALLWAY - LATER

Shrek and Puss search the hallways, looking for Artie.

Off-screen we hear mumbling from inside a locker. Shrek and

Puss look as Donkey pushes the locker door open. He has been

stuffed inside. Off-screen we hear some students laughing.

An "I Suck-eth" sign has been taped Donkey's butt.

Shrek spots students entering the Gymnasium. They approach a

HALL MONITOR who stops them.

Two mascot costumed students walk up to the hall monitor.

The Hall Monitor waves them in. Shrek gets an idea.

The Hall Monitor reaches out and starts painfully pinching

and pulling Shrek's skin. Shrek tries to hide the pain.

The Hall Monitor lets his face snap back into place. Shrek

struggles not to scream in agony. Hall Monitor is still

suspicious.

Puss's claws snap out one at a time like jack-knives and then

Puss jabs all the claws deep into Shrek's butt.

Donkey kicks Shrek hard in the groin with his hind legs.

Shrek winces and sweats.

INT. GYMNASIUM - CONTINUOUS

Principal Pynchley presides over an assembly for the entire

student body. He speaks through a megaphone.

Two students are standing next to Pynchley. One is dressed

up like a dragon and the other as a griffin.

Shrek bursts through the double-doors of the gym.

The students gasp as Shrek marches forward.

The band plays Smashmouth's "Rock Star."

Without breaking stride, Shrek grabs Principal Pynchley's

megaphone.

The students all point... to the basketball hoop, where Artie

hangs helplessly. Shrek, Donkey and Puss turn and look up

and see the freshly wedgied student. The students laugh.

In the front row, Lancelot bumps fists with Bohort.

Donkey turns to Lancelot.

Lance points to the D&D nerds. They are beside themselves

with nasal laughter. Nosebleed boy starts bleeding again.

Shrek reaches up and pulls Artie down to eye level.

Even Principal Pynchley gets caught up in the excitement.

Shrek yanks on Artie and pulls him off the hoop.

The students react with surprise and disbelief.

They high five. The tuba player plays a Wha-wha-wha.

Everyone laughs.

Shrek pauses for just a moment, then...

Artie turns back to the crowd and delivers a heartfelt

speech.

Artie points and Lancelot and his buddies look horrified.

Shrek shoves the kid through the door.

Shrek, Donkey, and Puss exit the gymnasium.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

All the Princesses and Fairy-tale Creatures have gathered for

Fiona's baby shower. A group of birds gently place a

flowered wreath on Fiona's head. The Princesses all gaze at

her.

Fiona stands at the buffet table, stuffing her face with

cakes, pies, and anything else she can get her hands on.

She takes another bite.

The birds and forest creatures all flock to Snow White. They

chirp and hoot happily. Snow White looks annoyed.

Fiona reads the card.

Fiona opens it and pulls out a plastic baggy and pooper-

scooper.

The Fairy-tale Creatures get excited.

Pinocchio spins around, revealing a "Baby-Bjorn" with

Gingerbread Man inside.

Fiona turns to another present.

The other girls scowl at her.

Fiona pulls the string, opening the box to reveal a dwarf.

Cinderella prods beauty.

Dragon puts her head through the window.

Doris wedges herself in on the couch.

Fiona smiles.

EXT. SKY ABOVE FAR FAR AWAY - DAY

The Fairy-tale Villains are heading into town on flying

broomsticks. The Evil Trees are hanging underneath some of

the large broomsticks. Prince Charming is riding side saddle

with one of the witches.

A bug flies into his mouth.

Prince Charming takes the bug out of his mouth.

From the sky, Prince Charming, Cyclops and the Evil Witches

swoop down in "winged" formation on the broomsticks.

The Evil Trees are dropped like bombs. They pull their

branches (i.e. rip cord) to activate their plumage as

parachutes. Prince Charming and his army dive bomb towards

Rodeo Drive.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

A POV shot of an Evil Witch flying over Rodeo Drive. People

are diving out of her way.

The Evil Trees land, surrounding the shoppers, who flee in

terror.

A shadow falls over the child, and he looks up to reveal

Captain Hook and the Headless Horseman on horseback.

Evil dwarves chase patrons from the "Ye Olde Booteria" shop.

They replace a few letters on a store window and turn it into

"Ye Olde HOOTERS."

The excited patrons race back in.

An Evil Knight scares the patrons of Farbucks away and then

takes a seat to drink the unfinished coffee.

Another Villain throws a cart through a store window.

Cyclops rips the stamps off some envelopes, puts the

envelopes back in the mailbox and laughs.

The camera pans up to Prince Charming on the broomstick

flying down Rodeo Drive.

Prince Charming, on the broom, leads the Fairy-tale Villains

up to the castle.

EXT. CASTLE - CONTINUOUS

The Evil Witches surround the castle. Dragon takes down one

of the witches flying by, but more Evil Witches circle her.

Fiona runs to the window.

The Evil Witches drop a metal net over Dragon. She

struggles.

INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

BANG! The Fairy-tale Creatures run to barricade the door.

The Three Pigs and Pinocchio push a dresser and other

furniture in front of the door.

The Fairy-tale Creatures are fortifying the room. They brace

themselves against the furniture.

The Princesses panic.

Doris slaps Snow White to calm her down.

Fiona rushes to the fireplace and pushes it to one side,

revealing an underground passageway.

INT. OUTSIDE LIBRARY DOOR - CONTINUOUS

Prince Charming commands the Villains.

The Villains use an Evil Tree as a battering ram. Cyclops

rides the tree like a mechanical bull.

INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

BOOM! The door is starting to give way.

The Princesses go down the stairs.

BOOM! There is a loud explosion and the door blows open.

Prince Charming and the Fairy-tale Villains enter. He spots

the Fairy-tale Creatures having a tea party.

The Fairy-tale Creatures go back to drinking their tea.

Prince Charming snaps his fingers.

Captain Hook approaches Gingerbread Man.

He raises his hook under Gingerbread Man's chin.

Gingerbread Man tries to hold strong, but passes out.

A montage of Gingerbread Man's life flashes before his eyes.

INT. BAKERY - DAY

A baker pulls some gingerbread cookies out of the oven. He

puts on the gum drop buttons and Gingerbread Man is born.

INT. GINGERBREAD CLASSROOM - DAY

Gingerbread Man is attending school.

Gingerbread Man graduates.

EXT. ROAD TRIP - DAY

Gingerbread Man is driving in his car with the top down.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - NIGHT

Gingerbread Man is making out with his girlfriend at a movie.

EXT. CHURCH - DAY

Gingerbread Man and his bride run down the aisle as man and

wife.

INT. FARQUAAD'S CASTLE - DAY

Gingerbread Man is locked in a jail. Farquaad pulls off his

legs.

INT. GYM - DAY

Gingerbread Man is running on a treadmill, doing his

rehabilitation.

EXT. WHEAT FIELD - DAY

Gingerbread Man is running through a wheat field.

INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Gingerbread Man is still in a dream state singing.

Prince Charming becomes frustrated, he turns Pinocchio's head

towards him.

Pinocchio thinks.

Prince Charming gets in Pinocchio's face.

Pinocchio is still a little nervous.

Pinocchio thinks he has the upper hand.

Captain Hook scratches his head, even the Three Little Pigs

are frustrated.

Gingerbread Man continues to sing his "Lollipop Song."

The pig realizes his admission and immediately covers his

mouth. Pinocchio laughs nervously.

Pinocchio's nose grows.

Pinocchio's nose grows again.

EXT. BOAT DECK - DUSK

The boat cuts through the open sea. Artie smiles as he

watches Worcestershire shrinking away on the horizon.

He looks out to sea, disbelieving.

Artie smiles.

Shrek chuckles sheepishly.

Puss jumps up onto the railing next to Artie.

Shrek senses trouble and immediately steps in.

Shrek turns to Puss and Donkey, trying to shut them up.

Behind Artie, Shrek mouths "shut-up" to Puss and Donkey.

Shrek interrupts with a mock laugh.

Shrek motions to Artie, but he's gone. They all look around.

The boat suddenly pitches to the right. Shrek braces

himself. Puss and Donkey tumble away.

Artie swings the wheel around, sending the boat back in the

direction of his school. Shrek works his way into the cabin

and gains control of the wheel. The drunken Ship Captain

slides by.

Shrek turns the wheel the other way.

The boat veers again, heading back toward Far Far Away.

Artie falls to the ground and slides to the back of the boat.

A shuffle board stick slides next to Artie. He grabs it.

He jams it in the boat's wheel. The boat lurches.

He swings the boat back in the other direction. Shrek rises

up and grabs the wheel and turns it.

Artie falls underneath the wheel. He stands up shoving the

wheel back the other way.

Donkey and Puss roll across the deck.

Shrek grabs the wheel and swings it around. Artie yanks the

wheel. They wrestle for control.

As soon as the word leaves his lips, Shrek knows he's gone

too far. Stung, Artie lets go of the wheel, leaving Shrek to

yank hard on it. He pulls the steering column from the

decking.

Donkey climbs up onto the railing. He is seasick and is

about to puke when he sees jagged rocks ahead.

Shrek desperately sets the wheel back down and tries to steer

the ship clear of the rocks.

The camera pans past the boat. Off-screen we hear the boat

crash into the rocks.

EXT. BEACH - DUSK

Shrek, holding Puss and Donkey, staggers onto a small beach.

He glares at Artie who pulls himself out of the surf. Shrek

drops Puss and Donkey.

Puss, tired of being wet, shakes himself vigorously. His fur

puffs up into a fro. He drops his head in shame.

Artie raises an eyebrow. Puss and Donkey stare at Shrek

uncomfortably.

Artie shakes his head and marches down the beach toward a

path into the woods.

Artie keeps climbing.

Shrek looks towards Artie.

Shrek starts off after Artie. Donkey jumps in front of Shrek.

Beat.

Shrek picks up a piece of driftwood.

Donkey shakes his head in disgust.

Shrek tosses the log.

Shrek walks off, trying to catch up to Artie.

EXT. FOREST - MOMENTS LATER

Artie marches up the mountain trail.

Shrek thinks for a moment and then tries a different tactic

with the kid. He catches up to Artie.

Artie looks back over his shoulder. He sees Shrek and just

keeps going.

Puss and Donkey glance at each other. Artie notices a

cottage in the distance and heads toward it.

Passing a tree, Artie nonchalantly releases the branch,

striking Shrek square in the face and takes off running.

EXT. MERLIN'S CAMP -- CONTINUOUS

A boiling soup pot sits over a fire in front of a small

shack. Artie charges though, pounding desperately on the

door.

Shrek, Puss, and Donkey run into the camp.

Suddenly, a burst of light shoots through a candle box that

is hung on the door. A bright, colorful image of an old

wizard's head is projected out. Donkey is terrified.

Shrek watches.

With a "FZZZZT" and a "BLOOP", the image disappears.

The door opens and a tiny old man, Merlin, comes out.

Merlin smashes the security device with his little fist and

is promptly zapped in the head.

Merlin smacks a fly that has landed on his head.

Shrek and Artie stare in astonishment.

Merlin offers up a baking dish full of rocks.

Merlin takes a bite and chews loudly. His gums are bleeding

from eating rocks.

They both stare at him uncomfortably.

Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 64.

Shrek grabs Merlin's mouth and closes it.

EXT. MERLIN'S CAMP - LATER

A fire blazes.

Merlin throws a handful of dirt into the fire, it flares.

He points at the smoke and it starts to form objects (i.e.

Rorschach inkblots).

Puss and Donkey, excited, sit by the fire.

Shrek glances at the fire. The stroller from his nightmare

begins to take shape in the smoke. He blows the image away.

He covers his fear and changes the subject.

Merlin whacks Artie on the back of the head.

He tosses more dirt and flames burst up. Artie studies it.

Merlin starts beating a drum. Artie's expression starts to

change as he stays focused.

Shrek starts to take this in as he watches. Artie gets more

worked up.

Suddenly, Artie catches what he said. As the smoke drifts

away, he looks and sees everyone else staring back at him,

stunned.

Merlin goes back inside. They all stare at Artie.

Donkey gives Shrek a nudge to go over and talk to Artie.

Shrek hesitates and Donkey insists.

Just as he's about to get going, "That's What Friends Are

For" starts playing loudly from Merlin's security device

drowning out any conversation. They all turn toward the

shack where Merlin peeks out.

Everyone stares at him.

He sheepishly turns off the device and shuts the door. It's

quiet again.

Artie looks at him.

Shrek takes this in.

Artie looks at Shrek.

Artie chuckles at this.

Artie laughs and then pokes at the fire.

Artie looks up at Shrek.

Artie gently pokes at the embers with a stick for a moment.

He tosses the stick into the fire.

The camera slowly booms up and away from the group as the

fire continues to burn.

INT. SEWER CATACOMBS - CONTINUOUS

The Princesses, Fiona and the Queen are surrounded by

darkness as they tiptoe down the steps and into the catacombs

below the castle.

They round a corner and step onto a ledge with Fiona leading

the way, holding a torch.

Fiona tries to keep her frustration in check.

Sleeping Beauty, still being carried by Doris, wakes up.

Snow White and Rapunzel share an indignant look.

Fiona travels deeper into the catacombs. The other

Princesses follow.

Finally, Fiona spots what she was looking for.

Fiona, the Queen and the Princesses run towards a long ladder

and climb up through a grate into the main castle courtyard.

EXT. CASTLE GROUNDS - CONTINUOUS

They peer around a corner and see the construction of an

outdoor theater is underway. Two stagehands walk by carrying

a large dragon set piece. Evil dwarves are busy painting the

set. The finishing touches are put on the stage tower.

The Princesses hug the wall as a group of guards march by.

Rapunzel takes off in the other direction, and signals the

Princesses to follow her.

Fiona and the Princesses race after Rapunzel. They spot her

sprinting into the castle and follow her. They burst through

the doors and see Prince Charming holding Rapunzel by the

arm.

A large group of armed Far Far Away Guards surround them.

Prince Charming smiles at Fiona.

He looks back at Rapunzel lovingly, and the two share a long

kiss. Fiona and the other Princesses are shocked.

Cinderella claps excitedly.

The Princesses stare her down.

Prince Charming eyes up the Princesses.

He stops and flashes a sadistic smile.

Prince Charming leads Rapunzel out. She looks back at them

apologetically. Everyone wears a look of defeat.

The guards march them off.

Fiona and the princesses are locked away in a prison cell.

Fiona looks through the bars of the cell, feeling helpless.

EXT. WOODS OUTSIDE OF FAR FAR AWAY - DAY

Shrek startles awake. He sits up and scratches his head,

looking around. He realizes it's morning.

Behind him a peaceful bird lands on a tree branch. Suddenly,

the tree branch that was holding the bird flicks it off.

Shrek senses the movement behind him and turns around to find

everything is normal. He turns back around to wake up

everyone.

The trees start to advance toward Shrek.

The log Artie is sleeping on suddenly sits up, knocking

Artie, who is still asleep, to the ground.

The tree turns around to reveal an Evil Tree. Donkey finally

wakes up.

The Evil Trees continue to advance. A piano is heard. The

trees part and Hook is revealed to be playing the piano.

The music builds to a dramatic finale. Captain Hook turns

away from his keys and faces them.

He stares hard at Shrek and aims his hooked prosthetic.

Shrek is perplexed.

Pirates charge forward, swinging in from the tree branches.

One lands and gets his peg-leg stuck in the ground.

The pirates close in. Shrek grabs one and throws him to the

side.

One pirate raises his sword and prepares to swing at Artie.

Shrek pushes Artie's head down and the sword narrowly misses

him. The pirate prepares to swing again and Shrek lifts

Artie above his head.

Still in the air, Artie uses both legs to kick the pirate to

the ground. Shrek and Artie share a satisfied look.

A pirate charges Donkey.

Puss draws his sword and begins fighting off the pirate,

protecting Donkey.

The camera pans across the back of the piano to reveal Merlin

happily playing along with Captain Hook. He notices and

rudely elbows Merlin out of the way.

A pirate runs at Shrek, only to be tripped by Artie. The

pirate bounces off Shrek's belly.

A wooden board is thrown on a stump, creating a makeshift

"plank." The pirates back Shrek onto the plank.

Several pirates with swords force Shrek onto the plank. He

is backed up to the edge of the plank and falls into a

waiting treasure chest below. Several pirates try to shut the

lid on him.

Puss, Donkey and Artie are trying to hold off the Villains.

Suddenly, two Evil Trees come into frame and scoop Puss,

Donkey and Artie up in a net.

The pirates aim the cannon at Puss, Donkey and Artie. Artie

starts to panic. Puss extracts his claws and tries to cut

through the netting.

The cannon fuse is lit.

Shrek bursts open the treasure chest and stands up with the

chest still stuck to his behind.

Shrek sees the lit fuse and quickly formulates a plan. He

grabs two pirates and shoves them into the treasure chest.

He tosses the chest onto the other end of the plank and

catapults himself over to the cannon. At the last second,

Shrek is able to aim the cannon in the opposite direction.

The cannon fires and hits Captain Hook's piano, blowing it

into pieces.

Realizing their defeat, the Evil Trees drop the netting that

holds Donkey, Puss and Artie. The Evil Trees and Pirates

take off running.

Captain Hook turns and sees his army running off. He shakes

his hook in the air.

He raises his hook threateningly but it gets caught on an

Evil Tree's branch and is dragged away with the rest of the

Villains.

TIGHT ON SHREK, filled with worry. Nothing else matters to

him now.

Artie, Puss, and Donkey run over to Shrek.

Shrek thinks for a moment.

EXT. MERLIN'S CAMP - CONTINUOUS

Merlin is sitting cross-legged, deep in meditation. Artie

approaches him.

Merlin stops meditating and looks out of the corner of his

eye at Artie.

Artie tries a new approach.

Merlin turns and starts to walk away muttering under his

breath.

Artie thinks for a moment, staring at Merlin. Artie starts

to sob. Merlin stops and turns around.

Artie continues to cry.

Merlin is visibly uncomfortable.

Artie's blubbering becomes frustrated and unpredictable.

Artie grabs him, now desperate.

Artie speaks one last, indecipherable line.

Merlin is stunned. He doesn't know what to do.

Merlin goes into his cave. Artie immediately recovers.

Shrek is impressed.

Shrek smiles.

Merlin returns holding a spell book.

Merlin cracks his knuckles. A bolt of lighting shoots out

his hands and blows up a rock next to Donkey.

Donkey and Puss shoot Shrek a pleading look.

Magic rays shoot out of Merlin's fingers. Shrek, Puss,

Donkey and Artie disappear in a puff of smoke.

EXT. SOMEWHERE IN THE WOODS - CONTINUOUS

They reappear and fall out of the sky and bounce through the

canopy of a large apple tree. They ping-pong through the

foliage and land in a heap at the base of the tree.

Donkey adjusts himself, feeling hung over.

Donkey's eyes widen. He realizes his voice is coming out of

Puss' body.

Donkey (in Puss' body) grabs Puss' hat. He looks down at

Puss' boots. His tail begins to twitch.

Puss (in Donkey's body) falls from a tree next to Donkey (in

Puss' body).

Both Shrek and Artie stare at them. A strained smile pasted

to their faces. They burst out laughing.

Donkey joins Puss, both of them scowling.

Puss is fuming.

Shrek and Artie regain their composure.

Shrek motions to Far Far Away, just a few miles ahead of

them. He turns back to Artie.

Artie smiles.

Donkey takes a few awkward steps in Puss' body.

Puss is shocked by this. He tries to recover.

EXT. ENTRANCE TO FAR FAR AWAY - AFTERNOON

Shrek, Puss (in Donkey's body), and Artie rush past a welcome

sign to the town that has been boarded over so it now reads

"Go Go Away."

Donkey (in Puss' body) struggles to walk. His tender new

feet hurt in their tiny boots.

Inside the kingdom, Rodeo Drive is trashed. There is graffiti

everywhere.

Suddenly a carriage driven by Evil Witches comes zooming down

Rodeo Drive.

The carriage zips around a corner on two wheels. A drunken

Evil Dwarf is almost hit by the carriage while crossing the

street.

Shrek is shocked by what he sees.

A crash is heard off-screen.

A large explosion is heard off-screen while Little Red Riding

Hood pick pockets the Evil Dwarf.

A carriage wheel on fire rolls by a marionette theatre with

Pinocchio dancing in it.

Shrek and the rest rush over as the curtain starts to go down

on Pinocchio. He presses his puppet hands against the glass.

The time has run out. The cheesy music stops as the curtain

goes down.

Shrek looks at the marionette theatre and sees how much it

costs per show.

Donkey (in Puss' body) removes his boot, he turns it over and

a bag of money falls onto the ground.

Donkey (in Puss' body) tosses the money to Shrek.

Shrek quickly dumps the change into the machine. The music

starts and the curtain goes up again and Pinocchio dances.

The curtain goes down again.

Pinocchio's hand comes out from under the curtain and points

to a poster on the wall. Puss reads the poster out loud.

The picture shows Charming, sword raised in the air, with his

foot pinning Shrek, tongue sticking out of his mouth, to the

ground.

Shrek turns and sees a large group of Charming's royal

knights, armed and ready. They drive them back into the

alley. Puss (in Donkey's body) steps forward.

He whips his head towards the oncoming guards. His eyes are

large and sweet. His lips pout. The guards are momentarily

hypnotized by his cuteness, until they realize they're

staring at a donkey.

The guards recoil.

Puss (in Donkey's body) immediately retreats.

Artie glances at the theater poster on the wall and steps

forward, confronting the guards.

Shrek picks up on his plan.

The guards are confused. Artie tears the poster off the

wall. Shrek glances at Artie, who steps forward, yanking the

poster off the wall.

Donkey marches in.

Shrek pushes the guards aside and continues on towards the

castle.

The guards look at each other nervously.

INT. COURTYARD STAGE - DAY

A group of enchanted trees work on through their dance

number.

Two dwarfs on bungee chords helplessly swing back and forth

in the rear of the stage.

The camera lands on Prince Charming reading his lines next to

a Shrek stand in.

He starts the line over.

Without looking, Prince Charming stabs the stand in, who

falls to the ground.

Unseen stage hands drag the stand-in away.

Stagehands shove another stand in onto the stage beside

Prince Charming.

Prince Charming does a quick mime of being afraid and

chuckles.

Without looking he stabs stand in #2. He falls to the ground.

Prince Charming is still frustrated.

He throws the sword to the ground and turns toward the

dancing villains who are staring at him.

He throws the script on the ground and notices the stand-in.

Prince Charming storms off.

INT. CHARMING'S DRESSING ROOM -- MOMENTS LATER

Prince Charming storms into his colossal gold leafed dressing

room, its walls covered with posters of inspirational sayings

and portraits of Prince Charming in different acting roles.

Slamming the door, he plops down in his throne chair in front

of a dressing table and large 3-way mirror. A statuette of

his mother is on the vanity. He looks at it intently.

Charming adjusts the mirror, revealing a reflection of Shrek

standing in the doorway. Artie, Puss and Donkey stand along

side him.

Prince Charming quickly stands up and faces Shrek.

He walks across the room as Prince Charming backs against his

dressing table.

Prince Charming fumbles behind his back and pushes a button

under the counter.

Shrek picks him up by the front of his shirt and scowls.

Shrek strengthens his grip.

Suddenly, a group of guards burst into the room and quickly

surround Shrek, Artie, Puss and Donkey.

Prince Charming smiles.

Shrek looks around and realizes he's beat. He drops Charming

with a thud.

Prince Charming brushes himself off as the guards surround

Shrek.

Prince Charming walks over to Artie. A smile grows across

his face.

Artie looks indignant. He raises himself up.

Laughing, Prince Charming draws his sword and holds it up to

Artie's neck.

Shrek steps in.

Artie is confused.

Shrek hesitates and then gathers himself.

Shrek becomes defensive.

Artie is stunned.

Shrek fights back tears as he punishes Artie more.

Puss (in Donkey's body) is about to interject when Donkey (in

Puss' body) covers his mouth and signals him to stay quiet.

Prince Charming signals the guards to release Artie. He

stares at Shrek one last time and heads out.

Shrek lowers his head in shame.

Prince Charming smiles and the guards lead Shrek off.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE CHARMING'S DRESSING ROOM:

Shrek is led by the guards down the hallway.

EXT. CASTLE GATE:

The scene cross-dissolves to Artie's back as he walks away

from the castle. He gives one last look back, and angrily

storms away.

INT. DUNGEON:

Shrek's ankles and wrists are shackled. Shrek pulls on his

chains. He sadly looks out the cell window.

INT. PRISON:

The scene cross-disolves to another prison window. Fiona

comes to the window of her prison cell. She stares

sorrowfully at the castle in the distance.

INT. FAR FAR AWAY PRISON CELL - DAY

All of the Princesses, the Queen and Fiona are locked up in

the same prison cell.

Cinderella is frantically scrubbing a spot on the floor to a

shine.

Fiona looks out the cell window towards the castle in the

distance. Behind her, Snow White paces around, complaining.

Cinderella looks down at her reflection in the floor.

Fiona steps forward and challenges them.

Suddenly, the cell door flies open. Donkey and Puss (in each

other's bodies) are tossed in as the door is slammed behind

them.

Puss, in Donkey's body, hisses and arches his back like a

cat.

Shrek the Third - Final Screening Script 92.

Fiona's lets out a breath.

The Princesses nod in agreement.

Sleeping Beauty falls asleep standing up. Snow White quickly

assumes her position by lying down and puckering her lips.

Cinderella dusts off a spot, sits down and crosses her legs.

The Queen smiles and then casually walks by the Princesses.

She walks right up to the brick wall, takes a deep breath and

lets out a yell.

She head-butts a hole right through the brick wall. Fiona

and the Princesses are impressed.

Fiona beams at her mother and then turns to the Princesses.

Snow White points to another wall behind them.

The Queen turns and sees the another wall barring their way.

The Queen hurries to the other wall.

It crumbles, revealing the outside. The princesses wince.

Fiona approaches her mother.

The Queen turns around, this time a little woozy, singing

softly to herself.

The Queen continues to sing to herself as she walks away.

Fiona turns to the others.

Snow thinks for a moment and then glances at the other

Princesses. They nod.

Snow looks determined. She rips off a sleeve, revealing a

Dopey tattoo.

Sleeping Beauty tears the bottom of her dress.

The Queen puts lipstick smudges under her eyes (a la a

football player).

Cinderella sharpens the heal of her glass slipper.

Doris burns her bra.

The Princesses place their hands over Fiona's. Puss and

Donkey's hands come in last.

EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Captain Hook replaces his "hook" appendage with a "baton" and

taps it on the score in front of him.

The camera pulls back from a playbill that reads: "It's a

Happily Ever After, After All - Starring Prince Charming as

himself."

Two intimidating Evil Knights are handing out the playbills

and are using spears to usher people into their seats.

The orchestra begins to warm up.

EXT. STAGE

The camera follows Rumplestiltskin as he hurries from the

stage to backstage.

INT. BENEATH THE STAGE - NIGHT

SHREK stands atop a wooden platform, like a beaten man.

Cyclops is binding his arms and legs with heavy chains

attached to the floor.

He pulls the chains tight.

Cyclops motions to the shadows.

CYCLOPS' DAUGHTER walks out from the shadows. She looks like

Cyclops with long hair and skirt.

Shrek recoils.

Cyclops picks her up and embraces her.

They touch foreheads affectionately.

Shrek looks at the two of them and then gets a determined

look on his face.

EXT. CASTLE GARDENS

The camera booms down into some trees just outside of the

castle. Fiona and the Princesses appear behind a log. Two

Evil Trees guard the castle gate. Fiona uses a duck call to

signal Snow White. She skips down the path toward a side

entrance, where two Evil Trees are standing guard. Snow

White stops in front of them, singing our version of: "Animal

Friends/With A Smile."

The birds answer her in song.

The birds answer again.

All the forest creatures flock to her.

More forest creatures flock to Snow White.

The Evil Trees stare in amazement.

Suddenly Snow White's face changes. She transitions into Led

Zeppelin's "Immigrant Song."

All the animals turn and attack the trees. Fiona and the

Princesses charge forward.

EXT. FAR FAR AWAY ZOO - CONTINUOUS

Donkey and Puss (in each other's bodies) run through front

gates of the Far Far Away Zoo.

The Dronkeys are held captive in the zoo. Donkey (in Puss'

body) busts open their cage.

The Dronkeys fly over to Puss (in Donkey's body) and hug him.

EXT. CASTLE GARDENS - CONTINUOUS

The Princesses run toward the castle. Doris punches through

the lock to open the gates.

As they enter the castle grounds, a group of guards runs

towards them. Cinderella takes out a couple of them with her

boomerang crystal slipper. Sleeping Beauty falls to the

ground, asleep. The guards trip over her body.

Doris runs up to the foot of a canopy and takes a knee. The

Princesses use Doris as a step to leap onto the canopy and

over the castle wall.

EXT. RODEO DRIVE - CONTINUOUS

Donkey and Puss (in each other's bodies) break Pinocchio out

of his marionette theatre.

EXT. BAKERY - MOMENTS LATER

Gingerbread Man is locked inside a bakery display case.

Donkey and Puss arrive (in each other's bodies). Donkey (in

Puss' body) awkwardly tries to cut the glass open with his

claws. Puss (in Donkey's body) intervenes, quickly bashing a

hoof through the glass. They pull Gingerbread Man out of the

case.

EXT. CASTLE ROOFTOP - CONTINUOUS

Fiona leads the Princesses and Queen, as they stealthily

creep along the rooftop.

EXT. CASTLE ROOFTOP - CONTINUOUS

Fiona peers around a corner and sees two guards blocking

their path. She gets an idea.

The Guards turn around to find a leg sticking out. They

"ooh" and "aah" as they approach the leg. The camera pans up

to reveal Doris.

She kicks the guards to the ground, and they take off

running.

EXT. FAR, FAR AWAY CASTLE- LATER

Donkey, Puss, (still in each other's bodies) and the rescued

Fairy Tale Creatures run toward the castle.

Donkey and Puss peek out from behind a bush.

Donkey turns to address the Fairy Tale Creatures behind him.

The Three Pigs notice something.

Donkey, in Puss' body, turns to look. Artie is staring at

the strange crew.

Artie turns and walks away. Puss, in Donkey's body, runs to

stop him.

Artie pushes Puss (in Donkey's body) out of the way.

Artie starts to storm away.

Artie starts to walk off.

This stops Artie in his tracks.

Artie realizes the truth and is suddenly concerned for his

friend.

EXT. COURTYARD STAGE

The lights dim.

The curtain rises.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Rumplestiltskin orders for the spotlight.

EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

A spotlight comes up on Rapunzel, singing in a tower while

the Fairy-tale Villains play their roles below.

Audience members look at each other in confusion; is this

crap for real?

Raul, the make-up artist, cries in the audience.

From the audience a knight holds up a candle.

Up in the rafters, Rumplestiltskin cues the Cherubs.

The Cherubs (Evil Dwarves) are lowered onto the stage by a

rope and pulley system.

A spotlight appears on stage. From underneath the stage a

clamshell rises and opens to reveal Prince Charming on

horseback.

The Cherubs drop rose petals onto Prince Charming and the

clamshell. Prince Charming and his steed, Chauncey, jump out

of the clamshell.

Prince Charming begins to make his way over to the tower.

Prince Charming chops the head off of the flying griffin

puppet.

Prince Charming dismounts, casually chops the head off of the

sea serpent and crosses the sea.

He makes his way to dry land. He weaves in and out of the

Evil Trees, who are playing the part of a forest.

He casually cuts off the head of a wooden cut-out reindeer

and shoves a villain in a bear costume out of the way.

Prince Charming has made his way up the stairs at the bottom

of Rapunzel's tower.

There is a loud flash and a loud growling is piped through

the sound system and flares go off as a trap door opens in

the stage floor. Prince Charming hams it up for the

audience, putting his hand to his ear.

INT. BACKSTAGE - CONTINUOUS

Rumplestiltskin cues Mabel.

Mabel is growling through a megaphone backstage.

Three Evil Witches turn a lever and an Evil Dwarf blows some

steam with a billow.

EXT. COURTYARD STAGE - CONTINUOUS

A large, imposing shadow grows onstage. The silhouette

fades, revealing a shackled Shrek on stage. He pulls at his

chains as he notes the audience and views the spectacle

before him.

INT. AUDIENCE - CONTINUOUS

A crowd of fans, with "SHREK" written on their stomachs,

cheer. One of the fans is hit with an arrow. They promptly

sit down.

Pirates and Evil Knights dance in from the wings.

Prince Charming takes a dramatic pause and sings in an ultra-

high voice of a castrato.

Prince Charming relishes the moment, pulling out his sword

and aiming it at Shrek's chest. Prince Charming's voice

climbs even higher.

He holds the last, highest note. Shrek winces. Goblets, eye

glasses, a glass tiara and glass pearls all break in the

audience.

Prince Charming smiles. Shrek looks at him with contempt.

The audience laughs at Shrek's remark. Prince Charming is

thrown by their reaction.

From a trap door underneath the stage Rumplestiltskin tries

to help Prince Charming out by feeding him his next line.

He clears his throat and tries to get back into character.

The audience laughs. Prince Charming gets in Shrek's face.

The audience laughs again.

The crowd laughs again. Shrek smiles, enjoying how he's

screwing up the show. Prince Charming is furious.

The crowd falls silent.

Prince Charming turns back to Shrek.

Prince Charming raises his sword.

Suddenly a fireball hits the blade, melting it.

Another huge fireball spreads across the sky as Dragon flies

above the theater. The Dronkeys follow behind her.

The Three Pigs come running down the aisle.

The Three Pigs leap onto the stage, going into a drop and

roll move to land in between Shrek and Prince Charming. They

strike a fighting pose.

Pinocchio comes flying in on his strings, landing with a

flurry of kung-fu hands.

The Wolf unzips the wolf costume, steps out and joins the

others.

Gingerbread Man pops up in the tower window, grabs Rapunzel's

hair and swings down. Before he hits the ground, the end

catches and he bounces like a bungee jumper. Her hair falls

into a pile next to a very surprised Gingerbread Man.

Rapunzel screams. Her mousy brown hair crammed under a hair

net. She runs off crying.

Prince Charming looks around, almost surrounded.

Suddenly a shadow falls over the crowd and they gasp. Dragon

and the Dronkeys fly in and land on the stage.

Puss and Donkey leap off her back to the stage.

He claps his hooves on the stage.

He carves a letter "D" on Pinocchio's bottom.

The Queen head-butts through one of the backdrops, with

Sleeping Beauty and Doris. Snow White flies in behind them

with the help of her woodland creatures ("Crouching Tiger,

Hidden Dragon" style). Cinderella runs on stage equipped with

a mop as her weapon. Together, the Princesses strike fierce

poses and stand next to Shrek.

The audience applauds.

Suddenly the front door of the "swamp house" set crashes to

the floor, revealing Fiona.

The audience applauds. Shrek turns to Prince Charming

raising his shackled wrists.

Prince Charming considers this for a second.

Prince Charming strikes an imperious pose and claps his

hands. Cyclops suddenly emerges from the trap door, knocking

Puss and Donkey down. He approaches them menacingly.

The witches fly in and threaten the princesses with their

brooms. The Evil Queen rises up behind the Queen and puts a

knife to her throat.

The Evil Dwarves grab The Three Pigs. Gingerbread Man is

suddenly surrounded by many Evil Knights. He poops out a gum-

ball.

Dragon starts to move forward only to find herself surrounded

by crossbows. A bunch of pirates grab Fiona and tie her up.

Shrek struggles to free himself of the chains, but it's no

use.

Prince Charming's eyes narrow.

Prince Charming signals to the villains to attack Shrek. As

the villains advance towards Shrek, a spotlight shines in

their eyes, stopping them in their tracks.

Artie jumps from the spotlight.

Artie lands clumsily on a hanging cloud.

Artie leaps awkwardly from cloud to cloud. The audience

stares in awe.

After one last leap, he swings down on the Cherub's cable,

sending the little person up in the air.

Artie lands on the stage in between the Villains and Shrek.

He stands facing the Villains.

The Evil Knights think about it and raise their hands. The

other Villains follow suit.

This gives the Villains pause.

The Villains aren't convinced.

Another Evil Tree covers Prince Charming's mouth and then

motions to Artie.

Artie shares a look with Shrek.

The Fairy-tale Villains listen intently.

The Evil Tree tightens his grip as Prince Charming struggles

to break free.

Artie commands the stage.

Artie points at Rumplestiltskin directly in front of him.

Rumplestiltskin is alarmed.

The Headless Horseman breaks through the crowd.

The Fairy-tale Villains and Creatures look at each other.

The Evil Queen steps up.

The Villains nod in agreement.

Complete silence as everyone stares at Hook.

Captain Hook looks thoughtfully at his sword, then throws it

down.

The pirates throw theirs down, followed by the witches and

Evil Knights. The evil knight holding Pinocchio is thinking

about it when Pinocchio reaches over and takes the ax from

him. The weapons pile up in the middle of the stage. Everyone

else cheers and starts to mingle, introducing themselves and

shaking hands.

Gingerbread Man high fives with an Evil Knight. Fiona is

untied.

Mabel walks up to Doris and lightly punches her on the jaw.

Doris returns the sign of affection by punching Mabel in the

jaw, but a bit too hard, sending her falling to the ground.

Suddenly, Prince Charming kicks himself free of the Evil Tree

and charges them. He grabs a sword from the discard pile and

raises it up, his aim set at Artie.

Despite his fear, Artie faces Prince Charming bravely. As

Prince Charming charges, Shrek finds the strength to break

his chains. Just before Prince Charming strikes, a chain

whips into frame, wrapping around the sword. Shrek pulls

Prince Charming around in a circle, away from Artie. Furious,

he charges Shrek and stabs him with the sword. Charming lets

go and Shrek stumbles back with the weapon impaled in him,

and falls to the floor, groaning.

Prince Charming beams, and laughs. He turns to the audience.

The audience cowers.

Shrek looks up smiling and nods at Fiona and Artie.

Shrek casually rises up behind him and clears his throat.

Charming turns around. Shrek lifts his arm revealing that he

was never really stabbed.

Charming is stunned.

Prince Charming is paralyzed. Shrek drops the sword and grabs

him by the shirt-front, lifting him off of his feet.

He winces, but is still defiant.

Shrek looks at Fiona and at his friends and smiles.

Shrek sets Prince Charming down and signals DRAGON. She

casually tips the tower over with her tail. A shadow falls

over Prince Charming. He turns and sees the tower falling

toward him, his body perfectly framed up in the princesses's

window.

It crashes down and he's trapped inside.

As the dust clears, the crown rolls across the stage. Artie

stops it with his foot and slowly picks it up.

Artie considers it.

He looks at Shrek, who is smiling proudly at him.

Artie turns to the audience and holds out the crown to them.

They cheer him.

Artie places the crown on his head. The crowd goes nuts. In

the audience, Raul sobs with joy.

Everybody cheers as the Fairy-tale Creatures and Villains put

Artie up on their shoulders and carry him off. Donkey and

Puss, still in each other's bodies, watch as Artie gets

carried away.

In a puff of smoke, Merlin suddenly appears. He looks around

confused, clutching his show ticket.

Suddenly he is thrown back against the front of the stage as

Donkey and Puss confront him.

Merlin rubs his hands together.

Merlin rolls up his sleeves, and prepares to make with the

magic. He lets loose with a bright burst of magic. It takes a

moment for Donkey and Puss to recover. They eye each other

cautiously.

Donkey lifts his hoof and inspects it carefully.

Puss checks out his own paws.

Donkey and Puss give each other a big hug.

The two of them turn and walk away together.

Merlin is behind them, smoking fingers and all. Suddenly his

eyes grow wide.

We see that Donkey still has Puss' tail and Puss had

Donkey's. Merlin slips away.

Shrek and Fiona watch Artie in the distance.

Shrek smiles, and touches Fiona's belly.

They kiss.

The camera pulls back to see everyone celebrating around

Shrek and Fiona as they kiss.

EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - MORNING

A wide-shot of a sunny morning in the swamp.

INT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Shrek grabs a "gourd" bottle and creates an ogre shake out of

slug juice, eye balls and worms. He walk over to join Fiona

by the fire.

Shrek gives Fiona the "gourd" bottle and she places a nipple

on it. Two ogre babies crawl up onto Fiona's lap.

A third ogre baby appears at Shrek's feet. He bends down to

pick him up.

One big happy family of five. Shrek laughs and gives the

babies and Fiona a hug.

The front door opens up to reveal Puss and Donkey.

The Dronkeys come swarming in behind Donkey. Dragon peers in

through the door.

Shrek with a safety pin in his mouth is doing his best at

changing diapers. He twists the diaper around and the baby

goes flying off screen and lands in a diaper that Fiona is

holding. She smiles at Shrek.

The swamp house is overrun with Dronkeys, ogre babies and

dirty diapers.

Puss sits next to an ogre baby that has a pacifier in his

mouth. He takes the pacifier out of his mouth, shoves it in

Puss' mouth and gives Puss a big hug. Another baby comes

crawling into frame and starts to tug on Puss' tail. A tug

of war ensues.

The ogre babies are bathing in a pot of water (a la a beat

from the Nightmare scene). One of the babies farts in the

water as Shrek comes in and scoops them up. Shrek laughs.

Donkey is playing "peek-a-boo" with his ears. A baby ogre

laughs.

A baby ogre pulls ear wax from Shrek's ear. The baby uses

the wax to draw squiggly lines on a piece of paper.

The Queen is bouncing a baby ogre on her lap. The baby pukes

and the Queen smiles.

There is a knock at the door. Donkey is laying on the floor

holding a bottle with all four hooves, drinking the milk.

Shrek grabs the bottle out of Donkey's mouth.

Shrek opens the front door to reveal the Dwarf.

Shrek puts a bottle into the Dwarf's mouth and slams the

door.

EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - DAY

Fiona slides one of the babies down a "slip `n slide" made

out of mud shot from geysers. Shrek slides down himself.

The babies scramble out of the way as Shrek slides by,

spraying mud everywhere.

INT. SWAMP HOUSE - EVENING

Shrek and Fiona are diapering two of the babies in perfect

unison. They continue diapering, Fiona holds up the third

baby and Shrek holds up an unhappy, diapered Puss.

Shrek grabs a gourd bottle off of a shelf. He tosses it to

Fiona.

Fiona stands holding one baby over her shoulder. She catches

the gourd thrown to her, twirls it around (a la Tom Cruise in

Cocktail), lifts up her leg where another baby is perched on

her foot and puts the gourd in the baby's mouth.

Shrek is burping a baby over his shoulder. The baby burps.

Fiona has a baby over her shoulder and the baby burps. A

Dronkey sitting on a chair does a flame-belch and an ogre

baby crawling by farts which causes a flame thrower effect

into the fireplace.

Shrek and Fiona tuck all the babies into bed.

INT. SHREK AND FIONA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Shrek and Fiona are sound asleep, snoring.

EXT. SWAMP HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

A baby starts to cry.

The camera trucks out.

