TOY STORY

<b><!--

</b>

<b>/*

</b>Break-out-of-frames script

By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)

Over 400+ free scripts here!

Above notice MUST stay entact for use

<b>*/

</b>

if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

FADE IN:

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

A row of moving boxes lie on the floor of the room.  They

are drawn up in crayon to look like a miniature Western town.

The bedroom is lined with cloud wallpaper giving the

impression of sky.

One of the boxes has a children's illustrated "WANTED"

poster of a Mr. Potato Head taped to it.

A MR. POTATO HEAD DOLL is set in front of the poster.  The

VOICE OVER of ANDY, a 6-year-old boy, can be heard acting

out all the voices of the scene.

A GROUP OF TOYS have been crowded together in front of the

"BANK" box.

Andy's hand lowers a CERAMIC PIGGY BANK in front of Mr.

Potato Head and shakes out a pile of coins to the floor.  Mr.

Potato Head kisses the coins.

A porcelain figurine of the shepherdess, BO PEEP, is brought

into the scene.

The companion porcelain sheep are placed in the center of a

Hot Wheels track loop.

WOODY, a pull-string doll cowboy, enters into the scene

opposite the inanimate spud.

Andy's hand pulls on the ring in the center of Woody's back.

Andy's hand pulls out one of Mr. Potato Head's eyes.

Andy places a TOY DOG, with a SLINKY for a mid-section, in

front of Mr. Potato Head and stretches him out.

Andy reveals a PLASTIC TYRANNOSAURUS REX, who stomps on the

Slinky Dog.

Andy picks up Mr. Potato Head and places him in a baby crib

in the room.

A cardboard sign is taped to the bars with the word "JAIL"

written in crayon.

Andy's 1-year-old sister, MOLLY, crawls over and picks up Mr.

Potato Head.  She sucks on him for a beat then proceeds to

pound the toy repeatedly against the rail of her crib,

forcing some of his parts loose.

Andy, wearing a cowboy hat himself, picks up Woody off the

floor.

BEGIN TITLES

SONG "YOU'VE GOT A FRIEND IN ME" plays while Andy does

various activities with Woody:

-- Andy turns the Western town boxes around to reveal cows

drawn on the other side.  He grabs a jump rope and pretends

Woody is lassoing the cattle.

-- Andy then rides Woody around on an RC (remote control)

car, and herds the remaining "cow" boxes under Molly's crib.

INT. STAIRWELL

-- Andy places Woody on the top of the stairwell banister

allowing the doll to slide downstairs.  Andy races ahead and

catches him at the bottom.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS LIVING ROOM

-- Andy & Woody fall into the La-Z-Boy chair and spin around

and around.

Next, Andy uses the La-Z-Boy foot rest as a catapult.

Andy flings Woody across the room to the sofa.

SONG ENDS

Woody lies limp on the sofa while Andy is heard talking to

his mother.

ANGLE: THE ADJOINING DINING ROOM

MRS. DAVIS, Andy's thirty eight-year-old mom, has just

finished decorating the area with streamers and balloons.  A

banner is draped across the archway.  It reads: "Happy

Birthday Andy."

Woody's frozen face stares in the direction of the birthday

decorations.

Andy picks up Woody from the couch and runs upstairs.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Andy and Woody enter the room.  Molly is still banging

Potato Head against her crib railing.  Andy tips Woody's hat

at her.

He deposits Woody on the bed and pulls his string one last

time.

Andy exits.

END TITLES

Woody's eyes come to life.  The cowboy doll sits up, his

expression changing from a smile to worry.

Woody thinks.

The bedroom comes alive.  TOYS emerge from the toy box, the

closet, the shelves, etc... in a flurry of activity.

POTATO HEAD, his body parts strewn across the floor, sits

himself upright and begins to re-assemble himself.

HAMM, the piggy bank, flips one last penny into his coin

slot.  Potato Head walks up to him.  All his facial pieces

are in the wrong slots.

Hamm walks away.

Potato Head walks past, revealing a hockey puck figurine.

Woody sits on the edge of the bed observing all the activity.

He turns to a plastic green army man, SARGENT, standing on

the night stand.

Woody hops off the bed.

A toy Slinky dog, SLINKY, appears from under the bed pushing

out a checker board set.  He begins to place the checkers on

the board.

Woody covers up Slinky's mouth, aware that the other toys in

the room are watching.  He leans in close to Slinky.

Slinky shuffles off.

Slinky perks up his gait and LAUGHS HARD.

Woody proceeds in the other direction.  He passes a toy

ROBOT and SNAKE partially hidden under the bedspread.

Robot and Snake come out from under the bed and reluctantly

follow Woody.

Woody walks past an Etch-A-Sketch, ETCH, going the other

direction.

Both Etch and Woody whip around like gunfighters.

Before Woody can fully extend his arm out, the Etch-A-Sketch

etches a gun on its screen.

Slinky passes a group of toys on the floor.

Robot and Snake begin constructing a podium made out of

Legos and a Tinker Toy tub while Woody searches the floor.

Woody spots the doodle pad on the floor by the desk and

walks over to it.  As he reaches down to pick it up...

REX, the plastic dinosaur, jumps out to scare Woody.

Rex suddenly turns timid.

Woody heads back to the podium.  Rex follows.

A crook suddenly grabs Woody's neck and jerks him towards BO

PEEP, the porcelain figurine.

Bo saunters back towards her lamp stand, passing a stack of

ABC blocks.

Woody is left lovestruck.

All the rest of the toys in the room are filing past Slinky.

Woody remains lovestruck in the middle of the room.

Woody snaps out of his trance and rushes over to the podium.

The toys crowd together as Woody steps up to the podium.

MIKE, a toy tape recorder, waddles up next to Woody and

indicates his microphone.

SFX: FEEDBACK

Mike waddles back a step to stop the feedback.

The toys all MOAN.

The toys LAUGH and SNICKER.

The words "You're welcome" scroll across Mr. Spell's display

screen as he speaks.

The toys all PANIC.

While Slinky speaks, Potato Head takes off his mouth and

mimes kissing his own butt.

Woody steps down from the podium and walks towards the crowd.

Everyone is now looking down, sheepish.

Too late.  The toys PANIC and stampede over Woody towards

the bedroom window, leaving him alone on the floor.

The toys all crowd around the bedroom window, trying to get

a peek outside.

Unable to see over the crowd, Potato Head pulls his eyes out

of his head and holds them up over the other toys.

ANGLE: TOY'S POV OF ANDY'S FRONT YARD

CHILDREN file towards the front door carrying presents.

The presents keep coming.

At first, the kid's present appears to be a little box, but

then the kid turns -- the present is four feet long.  The

toys SCREAM.

Down on the floor, Woody smacks his hand to his forehead in

surrender.

The toys turn inside and look down at Woody.

Woody jumps up onto Andy's bed and turns to the Sargent on

the nightstand.

The green army man hops down to the floor where a "BUCKET O'

SOLDIERS" sits.

THE GREEN ARMY MEN file out of the bucket and march in

formation across the bedroom floor.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Andy's door creaks open and a lone army man ventures forth

to make sure the coast is clear.  Satisfied, he motions for

the others to proceed.  Squads of soldiers march into the

hall carrying a baby monitor and a jump rope.

The army men each leapfrog behind the stairway banisters and

hold their positions while the Sargent surveys the scene

below through his binoculars.

ANGLE: SARGENT'S BINOCULAR VIEW OF DOWNSTAIRS

Directly below, Mrs. Davis passes through the hallway

rounding up Andy and all his birthday guests.

Once Mrs. Davis and the children are out of sight, the

Sargent motions to his men with a silent hand signal.

TWO PARATROOPERS jump out through the railing, parachuting

down to the floor below.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

The paratroopers sweep the area with their plastic rifles,

then give the "all clear" sign.

The jump rope is lowered, and more soldiers rappel down.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

The toys race towards the nightstand where Woody has placed

the receiving half of the baby monitor.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY

The green army men march in formation across the floor when

suddenly...

SFX: FOOTSTEPS

Can be heard approaching from behind the connecting kitchen

door.  Immediately the Sargent signals for his men to freeze

in their various classic action poses.

The door opens and Mrs. Davis' foot comes down hard on top

of a soldier.

With a sweep of her foot, she brushes the army men out of

her path and continues on to the living room.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALLWAY

As soon as Mom is gone, the Sargent motions for his men to

proceed toward a nearby houseplant that looks into the

living room.

The Sargent then notices an injured soldier struggling to

drag himself forward -- a casualty of Mrs. Davis' foot.  The

Sargent helps the injured soldier to his feet.

The Sargent motions to the remaining men above.  They lower

themselves via jump rope, riding the baby monitor.  Once

downstairs, they hustle the baby monitor towards the

houseplant.  Suddenly...

A BALL

bounces into the hallway, followed by the sound of footsteps

and kid clamor.

The Sargent, supporting his wounded man, reaches the plant,

right on the heels of the squad with the baby monitor.  They

conceal themselves in the house plant just before the

children run by.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT - CONTINUOUS

While the baby monitor is set in place, A MEDIC evaluates

the wounded soldier and gives the "thumb's up" signal.

The Sargent scans the party with his binoculars.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF BIRTHDAY PRESENTS

The pile of brightly wrapped gifts sits atop the living room

coffee table.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

The toys perk up as STATIC suddenly emits from the baby

monitor.

INT. LIVING ROOM

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF PRESENTS

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF A SINGULAR PRESENT

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

The toys CHEER WITH RELIEF.

Hamm gives Potato Head a congratulatory pat on the back,

sending his facial features flying.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT

The platoon is preparing to exit the plant when...

The Sargent lifts his binoculars back to his eyes.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF LIVING ROOM

Mrs. Davis can be seen opening the closet and pulling out

another large present.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

All the toys tense up.

INT. DOWNSTAIRS - HOUSE PLANT - CONTINUOUS

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

The sound of children CHEERING emits from the monitor,

cutting off the Sargent.

Rex grabs a leg of the nightstand and shakes it, making the

monitor drop to the floor.  The impact causes the batteries

to roll out.

Everyone rushes to the fallen monitor.  Potato Head tries to

correctly insert the batteries.

Woody jumps down off the bed and shoves both Hamm and Potato

Head aside.

INT. LIVING ROOM

The kids rush past the houseplant.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Woody puts the last battery back in.

The toys PANIC and scatter about the room.

Frantic, Rex slams into a trashcan and falls over.

Everyone scurries to their places as the KIDS' FOOTSTEPS

grow louder.

Woody falls limp in his spot on the bed just as...

Andy's bedroom door flies open and a flood of children's

feet rush in.

Woody is flung off Andy's pillow and slides, unnoticed, down

the gap between the bed and the back wall.

The kids all run out as fast as they entered, SLAMMING THE

DOOR behind them.

BEAT

The toys slowly come to life and make their way toward the bed.

Woody crawls out from under the bed.  The toys are shocked

to discover him there.

The toys give each other a look of doubt.

Woody climbs slowly up the side of the bed, peeking over the

edge.  His eyes widen at the sight of...

BUZZ LIGHTYEAR

We see Buzz as Woody does - an expensive looking space age

action figure, covered with buttons and stickers from head

to toe.  The imposing "G.I. Joe-sized" doll stands heroically

in the center of the bed, his back to Woody.

Woody GULPS.

Buzz comes alive and looks around.

ANGLE: BUZZ'S POV THROUGH HIS HELMET

While he scans the bedroom a "DARTH VADER" LIKE BREATHING is

heard.

Buzz eyes it all suspiciously and pushes a button on his chest.

SFX: ELECTRONIC BEEP

Nothing.  He pushes the button again.

Just then, Buzz catches sight of his ripped packaging.  The

box is designed to look like a spaceship.

He runs up to the box and investigates the damage.

Buzz flips open a plastic compartment on his arm -- his

wrist communicator.

Buzz springs up and down on the squishy surface of the bed.

He taps the sticker of controls on his wrist communicator.

ANGLE: BUZZ'S POV THROUGH HIS HELMET

Woody's face suddenly pops into view.

Buzz jumps back, taking a fighting stance.  He presses a

button on his arm that turns on a red "laser beam" light on

his wrist.  Buzz aims the red beam on Woody's forehead and

holds it there.

While Woody is speaking, Buzz notices the sheriff's badge on

Woody's vest.

Buzz begins walking around the bed, surveying the situation.

Woody tries to keep up.

Buzz shoves Woody down on the bed and re-activates his wrist

laser.

The other toys are peeking over the edge of the bed.

Buzz walks over to the toys.

Rex steps forward and eagerly shakes Buzz's hand.

Buzz presses a button on his chest.

The toys all GASP IN AWE.

As Buzz speaks, Woody glances down at the box in which Buzz

arrived.

ANGLE: BACK OF BUZZ'S BOX

There is a cartoon drawing of Buzz giving the exact, word-

for-word spiel that Buzz is now giving.

Woody walks over to Bo Peep.

Slinky presses the button on Buzz's arm, activating his

laser light.  Buzz quickly pulls his arm away.

Buzz calmly hits a button and wings pop out.

Again the toys GASP IN AWE.

The crowd of toys make room for Buzz as he heads towards the

edge of the bed and climbs up the bedpost.  He poses like a

high diver, shuts his eyes...

...and leaps off the bed.

Buzz plummets straight down, hits a big rubber ball and

bounces right back up.

He then lands on a Hotwheels car, which races him down the

track, through the loop, and off a ramp.  Buzz soars upward

into a plane mobile hanging from the ceiling.

Buzz becomes wedged between the plane's wheels.  The impact

turns on the PLANE'S MOTOR making it (and Buzz) spin around

and around.

All the other toys watch from the bed, mesmerized.

Finally the centrifugal force causes Buzz to separate from

the plane, sailing him across the room toward the bed.

Buzz makes a perfect landing right in front of Woody and

then opens his eyes.

The crowd of toys rush Buzz, CHEERING AND CLAPPING WITH

ADORATION.

Woody stands alone at the other end of the bed, fuming.

Slinky, caught up in the euphoria, approaches Woody.

MONTAGE

SONG: STRANGE THINGS plays over montage.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - LATER

A) Andy plays with Woody: jumping up and down on the bed,

running around the room.

B) Andy sets Woody down on the floor.  Next he "lands" Buzz

Lightyear on the floor opposite Woody.  Andy shoots Buzz's

laser at Woody and then smacks Woody across the room as if

he'd been blown away by the laser.

C) Andy runs into his closet wearing his cowboy hat and

cowboy pajamas.

Andy runs out of the closet clad in Buzz Lightyear pajamas

and a homemade spaceman's helmet.

D) Woody observes all the cowboy-themed items in the bedroom

transform to space motif: the posters, the drawings on the

wall, the pillow, the bedspread.

E) Buzz watches Rex execute a WIMPY ROAR.  The space ranger

suggests a few tips for the dinosaur.  Rex tries again, this

time giving a "JURASSIC PARK" ROAR.

The roar blasts Potato Head's features right off his face.

F) Woody passes Etch-A-Sketch, who's sporting a portrait of

Buzz.

Woody looks across the room to see Buzz combing Troll Doll's

hair, chatting away like a hair dresser.

Woody angrily shakes Etch, removing Buzz's image.

G) Rocky, Snake, Troll Doll and Rex are lifting Tinkertoys

as weights.  Buzz works out on top of an upside down Robot,

using his feet as a treadmill.

Potato Head attempts to lift his Tinkertoy barbell but ends

up tumbling backwards, leaving his arms connected to the

barbell.

H) Woody looks under the bed for Slinky, finding only the

checkerboard.

Woody peeks around the corner of the bed to see Slinky and

Robot, under Buzz's direction, setting Buzz's "ship" up on

top of ABC blocks for repair.

In frustration, Woody kicks the checkerboard, sending the

pieces flying.  One of the checkers ricochets off the

dresser and boomerangs into Woody's mouth.

I) On Andy's bed, Buzz pets Slinky whose back end is

stretched over to the other side where Woody sits.  Slinky's

wagging tail whacks Woody in the face repeatedly.

Woody shoves Slinky's rear end off the bed, leaving his

front end no choice but to eventually follow.

J) At bedtime, Andy loads his toys into the toybox until

just Woody and Buzz are left.  He deliberates as to which

toy to keep and which to toss into the toybox.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - LATER THAT NIGHT

Andy is sound asleep, with Buzz tucked under the covers next

to him.

Woody peeks out at them from the toybox and then sadly sinks

back into the box, closing the lid to...

BLACK

END MONTAGE/SONG ENDS

The black screen splits horizontally to become...

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - MORNING - WOODY'S POV OF THE BEDROOM

FROM THE TOY BOX

All is clear -- no sign of Andy.  Woody throws open the lid

of the toy box.

He takes a couple DEEP BREATHS of fresh air, then discovers

that his hat is missing.

The rubber shark pops up wearing Woody's cowboy hat.

Woody leaps out of the toy box.

Woody looks up to see Buzz chatting with Rex and Slinky.

Buzz puts his foot out so that Slinky and Rex can see the

sole of his boot.

The name "ANDY" is written on it in permanent marker.

Buzz walks away.

Woody looks at HIS foot -- "Andy" is written on it also but

in a much more childish scrawl, and is largely faded.

Hearing Bo, Woody puts his foot back down and quickly

straightens up.

Woody angrily marches across the room.

Across the room, Buzz's cardboard ship is still up on the

ABC blocks.  Buzz lies down on a skateboard and slides under

the ship like a mechanic.  Snake and Robot stand by waiting

for instructions.  Buzz's hand reaches out from under the ship.

Robot turns towards Snake who stands in readiness by a tape

dispenser.

Snake rips off a piece of tape with his mouth.

Woody approaches the skateboard, grabs hold of Buzz's foot

and rolls him out from under the ship.

Buzz rolls himself back under.  Woody rolls him out again.

Buzz stands up, face to face with Woody.

Woody pushes Buzz in the chest, accidentally activating a

button that makes the spaceman's helmet open.

Buzz grabs his neck, GASPING FOR AIR.  He drops to his knees

and begins to writhe on the ground, holding his breath.

Woody is unsure how to react.

Suddenly, Buzz SNIFFS the air.

Buzz rises and points an accusing finger at Woody.

Buzz closes his helmet.

Buzz falls for the trick and turns around.

Woody kneels over with LAUGHTER.

SFX: DOG BARKING

Woody stops short.  All the toys look to the bedroom window.

Slinky hides under the bed.

The toys rush over to the window.

From out the window, SID PHILLIPS, a hyperactive ten-year-

old, and his dog, SCUD, can be roughly made out jumping

around in their backyard.

A tiny figure stands isolated in the center of the yard.

Sid pummels the figure with rocks while Scud strains at his

leash, barking wildly.

Woody turns to see, LENNY, a pair of wind-up binoculars,

approaching him from the other end of the desk.  Woody picks

Lenny up and looks through him to survey the scene.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF SID'S BACKYARD

A full size toy soldier is posed in a running stance in the

center of the backyard.  A huge M-80 is strapped to the

doll's back with masking tape.

Buzz breaks through the crowd.

Buzz grabs Lenny from Woody and looks through him.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF THE DOG, SCUD

Again, Woody readjusts Buzz's view.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF SID

He is sporting a skull t-shirt and LAUGHING HIDEOUSLY.

Buzz steps up onto the window ledge.  The toys GASP IN SHOCK.

Woody presses Buzz's laser button.  It emits a WIMPY

ELECTRONIC BEEP.  Buzz quickly pulls his arm away.

While Woody and Buzz banter, Lenny witnesses Sid lighting

the fuse of the M80.

The toys jump away from the window.

SFX: EXPLOSION

Dirt clouds and toy shrapnel rain down along the side of

Andy's house.

Andy's toys peek over the window sill.

ANGLE: SID'S YARD

A large black scorch mark is all that remains where Combat

Carl once stood.  Sid jumps up and down victoriously while

Scud resumes his BARKING.

Sid CACKLES and dances around the crater.

EXT. ANDY'S FRONT YARD - SUNSET

A "FOR SALE" real estate sign stands in the front yard.

Another sign reading "SOLD" hangs from the bottom.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL/ANDY'S BEDROOM

Mom opens the door to Andy's room and steps in.  The room is

full of packing boxes, most of them half full.  Andy is

playing with Woody and Buzz.

Andy throws the two toys on his desk with Buzz landing right

on top of Woody.

The minute the door is closed Woody comes alive and shoves

Buzz off of him.

Woody perks up with concern.

He glances over his shoulder at Buzz, who is walking away

towards the opposite end of the desk.

Woody picks up a Magic 8 Ball left beside him on the desk.

With his back to Buzz, Woody quietly shakes the 8 ball.

He tips the 8 ball over.  The triangular oracle floats up to

the surface.  Its prediction reads: DON'T COUNT ON IT.

Woody throws down the 8 ball in disgust.  It rolls across

the desk and falls behind it with a LOUD THUD.

Woody suddenly becomes interested in the back of the desk

and peers down it.

ANGLE: BACK OF THE DESK

The 8 ball is wedged way down near the bottom.  The space is

a black chasm, dark and deep, just big enough to fit...a toy.

Woody looks across the desk at Buzz.

He is HUMMING TO HIMSELF as he forages through Andy's

pen/pencil tray looking for "tools" to repair his ship with.

Right behind Buzz sits

THE RC CAR

It rests on the desktop, pointing in the direction where the

8 ball fell, with the remote laying by its side.

Woody smiles for a beat and then runs in a panic over to Buzz.

Buzz runs over and looks down the back of the desk.

Woody picks up the remote for the RC Car and switches it on.

RC's eyes (headlights) open sleepily.

Woody hits the "FORWARD" button on the remote and steers the

RC Car straight for Buzz.

Buzz turns to see RC headed straight for him.  He dives out

of the way as the RC Car SMASHES into the base of...

A BULLETIN BOARD

The impact forces pushpins to fly out of the board.  Buzz

ducks as pins land all around him, sticking into the desk

like arrows.

POTATO HEAD

sits on the floor in the midst of a card game with Hamm.

He looks up at the desk and GASPS as the bulletin board

slams down onto...

A GLOBE

knocking it out of its stand.  The globe starts rolling

right at Buzz.

Woody stands frozen in disbelief at the chaos he's created.

Buzz runs along the desk, the globe rolling right behind

him, Indiana Jones style.  Buzz gets stuck "log rolling" on

a pile of pencils, but at the last second jumps out of the

way onto the window ledge.

The globe lumbers past Buzz and strikes a Luxo-style

desklamp.  The arm of the lamp swings all the way around,

barely missing Woody...

...and knocks Buzz out the window.

Woody looks out the window.  No sign of Buzz.  All the other

toys rush over to the sill.

Woody backs away from the COMMOTION, unnoticed.

Rex looks over at RC.  The remote control car is bouncing up

and down excitedly.

The toys turn from the window to RC.

The toys turn to Woody who suddenly realizes how this looks.

The Sargent pops out of the army bucket next to Woody.

Woody seals the lid back on the bucket.

Potato Head starts closing in on Woody.

Potato Head has driven Woody back to the very edge of the

desk -- trapped.

Suddenly, the lid pops off the bucket of army men.

The army men yell CHARGE and pounce on Woody, while all the

rest of the toys close in.

The toys all drop Woody and rush back to their places.

Andy enters the room and heads straight for the desk where

Woody is lying.  Andy overlooks Woody and begins searching

around the room.

Woody painfully watches as Andy searches in vain for Buzz.

Woody looks across the room.

Potato Head and Etch-A-Sketch peek out of a packing box.

Etch-A-Sketch scribbles a hangman's noose while Potato Head

points an accusing finger in Woody's direction.

Woody GULPS.

He grabs Woody and walks out of the room.

EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Andy exits the house dragging Woody as he heads toward the

family van in the driveway.

A BUSH

next to the van begins to rustle.  Hands part the foliage,

revealing Buzz.  He eyes Woody going into the van and does a

slow burn.

The van ENGINE STARTS UP.  Buzz races out of the bush, and

with a mighty leap, grabs the rear fender of the van as it

pulls out of the driveway.

ANGLE: SIDE OF ANDY'S HOUSE

A chain of monkeys falls into view, dangling a considerable

distance above the ground.

EXT. ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW - CONTINUOUS

The rest of Andy's toys have regrouped at the window,

supervising the lowering of the "monkey chain."

Rex throws the barrel down and runs back to the ledge.

EXT. GAS STATION - LATER

The Davis' family van pulls up to one of the pumps.

INT. VAN - CONTINUOUS

Andy sits in the rear seat with Woody lying next to him.

Both Mrs. Davis and Andy exit the van while baby Molly

sleeps up front in her car seat.

With Mom and Andy out of range, Woody comes to life.  He

stares out the sun roof, still reeling from everything.

Suddenly, Buzz appears over the edge of the sun roof.

Buzz jumps down on the back seat to face Woody.  He is furious.

No response from Buzz.  Just an angry stare.

Buzz lunges for Woody.  The two toys fly off the seat and

out the open side door of the van.

EXT. GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS

Woody and Buzz hit the ground and roll under the van, locked

in mortal combat.

Buzz lands a punch that sends Woody's head spinning around.

Woody lunges with all his might.  He smacks Buzz in the

face, making it SQUEAK with every blow.

Buzz closes his helmet on Woody's hand.

Woody pounds on Buzz's chest with his free hand, activating

BUZZ'S SAMPLED VOICE buttons.

SFX: CAR DOOR SLAM

The toys stop fighting.  Before they can react...

The van drives off.

Woody starts to run in the direction of the van but it

drives out of sight, leaving Buzz and Woody stranded.

Meanwhile, Buzz checks the surroundings.  He flips open his

wrist communicator.

Woody whips around, his expression changing from panic to

seething anger.  He charges at Buzz.

SFX: LOUD TRUCK HORN

Just then the toys are bathed in the headlight beams of a

behemoth tanker truck pulling into the station.

Buzz dives off to the side while Woody collapses right where

he stands on the pavement.  The truck ROARS over him.

A GIGANTIC TIRE

stops just millimeters from Woody's nose.

Petrified, Woody inches away from the tire, moving back

under the truck until he bumps into Buzz.

Buzz walk to the edge of the truck tire and points up to the

stars.

Woody explodes.

Beat.

Buzz walks off.

Woody walks away in the opposite direction.

SFX: SCREECHING TIRES FOLLOWED BY GAS STATION BELL

Woody looks in the direction of the bell.  His face lights

up at the sight of...

A PIZZA PLANET DELIVERY TRUCK.

Woody takes a step forward and then stops.

Woody runs back under the tanker truck.  Buzz is at the far

end of the truck, walking away from Woody.

Woody looks back at the delivery truck in desperation and

then eyes...

ANGLE: DELIVERY TRUCK ROOF SIGN

Atop the truck is a rocket with the Pizza Planet logo.

Buzz stops walking away and looks back at Woody.

EXT. GAS STATION - A FEW MINUTES LATER

The delivery truck's engine has stalled and is off.

Woody and Buzz eye the parked delivery truck from within the

safety of a nearby oilcan display.

Buzz makes a beeline for the passenger side door of the

pizza truck.  Woody chases after him.

In a flash, Buzz has scaled the front tire, grabbed the rear

view mirror, and swung himself up and into the cab.

SFX: ENGINE STARTING

Woody runs around to the back of the truck, scrambles up the

bumper and throws open the back hatch to climb inside.

Woody lets out a YELL, as the back hatch slams back down on

his rear, sending him flying into the bed of the truck.

INT. PIZZA PLANET DELIVERY TRUCK - CONTINUOUS

Woody peeks through the dividing window into the cab.

Buzz is hidden from THE PIZZA DRIVER's view by a stack of

pizzas in their insulated covers.  Buzz prudently fastens

his safety belt.

The driver shifts into gear and hits the gas, propelling

Woody to the back of the truck.

The pizza deliverer drives like a maniac, taking sharp turns

and hills at high speeds.  Woody is helplessly thrown around

the truck.  With every blow, Woody YELPS in pain.

The truck climbs a steep hill.  Woody looks up just in time

to see...

A LARGE TOOL BOX

barreling towards him.

BAM!!!

A STAR-FILLED BLACK NIGHT SKY

We MOVE DOWN to reveal...

EXT. PIZZA PLANET - NIGHT

The delivery truck barrels into the parking lot and parks.

INT. DELIVERY TRUCK - CAB - CONTINUOUS

After the driver leaves the truck, Buzz peeks out from the

passenger window.

ANGLE: THE FRONT ENTRANCE

Two imposing animatronic robots guard the doorway.  As

CUSTOMERS approach the front, the guards part their crossed

"pizza spears," allowing the patrons to enter.

VARIOUS ANNOUNCEMENTS blare out from speakers:

Excited, Buzz pries open the window between the cab and

truck bed.

Woody is gone.  Just the toolbox and strewn trash.

The toolbox falls on its side revealing Woody.  He peels off

the back of the truck and falls into a pile of trash.

Woody rises from the trash with a "MEGA-GULP" cup on his head.

EXT. PIZZA PLANET - FRONT ENTRANCE

In the f.g. sits a trashcan with fast food containers

littered around it.  MORE CUSTOMERS approach the "guarded"

entrance.

The front doors automatically swing open as the people pass

through.  Suddenly two pieces of trash -- a burger container

and "MEGA-GULP" cup stand up.

The two disguised toys make a dash through the closing doors.

INT. PIZZA PLANET - FRONT ENTRANCE - CONTINUOUS

Woody and Buzz just make it inside but then freeze

immediately as a GROUP OF KIDS run past, forcing the toys to

pose as discarded trash.

Once the coast is clear, Woody and Buzz resume walking.

Buzz bumps into Woody.

They sneak in between two long rows of video games and throw

off their disguises.  They then take a good look at...

THE ARCADE

The space-themed arena is filled with hordes of children

playing video games.  A sea of HI-TECH SOUNDS and lights

overwhelm the place.

Buzz is beaming with hope.

Woody is busy looking at all the children in the arcade, but

none of the kids look familiar to him.  Just then he HEARS...

Woody turns around and through the video games he spots...

ANDY

standing with Mom and Molly in her stroller.

The family begins to walk away.

Buzz is about to head off in the opposite direction when

Woody grabs him and quickly pulls him down the video corridor.

The toys manage to get ahead of Andy.  Woody peeks around

the corner of one of the video games and waits for Mom and

Andy to approach.

Buzz stops short at the sight of...

A CRANE GAME

It is modeled to look like a spaceship ready to launch.

Buzz heads for the crane game, but Woody does not notice,

his eyes locked on the approaching stroller.

Woody turns and realizes Buzz is gone.  He looks across the

way just in time to see Buzz leap into the crane game

through the "PRIZE" slot.

Woody turns back in the direction of the stroller.

It has already gone past.

Woody runs towards the crane game, but is forced to hold

back for a moment as some SCREAMING children pass by.

INT. CRANE GAME

Buzz climbs over the partition that divides the deposit slot

from the prize toys and leaps into a pile of...

SQUEEZE TOY ALIENS

There are hundreds of them, all identical and way too cute.

The squeeze toys rush Buzz like JABBERING excited children.

EXT. CRANE GAME

With the kids gone, Woody crosses the aisle to the crane

game and dives through the prize slot.

INT. CRANE GAME - CONTINUOUS

Woody clambers up the side of the deposit slot.

Woody peeks over the partition to witness Buzz surround by

the cute alien toys.

All the aliens point upward.

Woody and Buzz look up.

ANGLE: CRANE GAME CLAW

It dangles directly above the toys.

Woody GASPS at the recognition of Sid's voice.  He turns to

see Sid heading straight for the crane game.

Woody leaps off the partition and tackles Buzz, pushing the

two of them deep into the pile of aliens.

Sid approaches the crane game and fishes quarters out of his

pants pocket.

ANGLE: CLAW

It moves into position and hovers directly above the area

where Woody and Buzz are hiding.

The crane drops and grabs hold of the alien toy that is

right on top of Buzz.

Positioned with his back to Sid, the alien is lifted up by

the claw.

With the alien gone, Buzz's upper torso becomes exposed,

forcing the space ranger to freeze.  Sid suddenly spots Buzz.

Woody, still hidden, frantically looks around for some way

to escape.  Behind him, through the aliens, he eyes...

A SMALL REPAIR DOOR

Woody swims through the alien squeeze toys toward the door.

He grabs hold of the locking latch and, after a few

attempts, is able to pry the door open.

The shadow of the crane lines up over Buzz, lowers, and

grabs his head.

The claw begins to lift Buzz up.

Woody grabs hold of Buzz's feet.

Woody and the claw begin to have a tug-of-war with Buzz.

Woody pulls down hard, forcing Buzz to sink into the pile of

aliens, out of Sid's view.

Still tugging against the crane, Woody is almost out the

door with Buzz.  Just then, the aliens at the bottom of the

pile pull Buzz and Woody back inside.

Woody and Buzz are pushed up to the surface and into the

air, dangling lifelessly in front of Sid.

Woody and Buzz are dropped into the prize door slot and

snatched up by Sid.

ANGLE: CLOSEUP OF SKULL ON SID'S T-SHIRT

EXT. SID'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

From out of the darkness appears Sid on his skateboard.  He

is HUMMING to rock music from his walkman while carrying his

backpack in his hand.

Sid leaps off the skateboard and walks up the front path

towards the front door.

Through the open zipper, Buzz peeks out of the backpack to

see Sid's house.  He recognizes Andy's house next door.

INT. BACKPACK - CONTINUOUS

Buzz, Woody and a squeeze toy alien are scrunched up in the

backpack.

ANGLE: TOYS' POV FROM OUT BACKPACK

The front door opens to reveal Scud.  The dog lunges

straight for the backpack, BARKING.

The dog begrudgingly obeys.

Sid's hand reaches into the backpack.

The toys go still.  Sid's hand grabs the alien out of the

backpack.  The alien is then placed sideways along Scud's

snout.

In one quick motion, Scud flips the alien up, catches it in

his mouth, and rabidly shakes it back and forth.

Buzz and Woody react in horror.

Woody and Buzz glance up to see HANNAH, Sid's frail little

sister, carrying her Janie Doll.

He grabs the doll.

Sid bolts upstairs with Hannah in pursuit.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL - CONTINUOUS

Sid races to his bedroom door.  Hannah is right behind.

Sid just LAUGHS.  He charges into the room and slams the

door in his sister's face.

INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Sid carelessly tosses the backpack on the bed and walks over

to a makeshift workbench.

Sid CLICKS on a bare bulb dangling above his "operating

table."

Woody and Buzz look on from the safety of the backpack as

Sid places the Janie doll's head in a vise.

Sid grabs a painter's mask from his toolchest and dons it

like a surgeon's mask.

Sid grabs a toy pterodactyl from a nearby crate full of junk.

Sid struggles for a moment with his "patient" then stops.

He opens the door.  Hannah is standing there, looking worried.

He hands her Janie -- her head has been replaced with a

pterodactyl's.  Hannah SCREAMS at the sight of the

monstrosity and bolts down the hallway.

Sid throws the doll to the ground and runs after Hannah,

slamming the door behind him.

Woody and Buzz peer out of the backpack at their new

surroundings.  Heavy metal posters, discarded toy remains

and power tools adorn the messy room.

They are in Hell...toy Hell.

Woody leaps from the bed to the doorknob and struggles to

open it.  No good.  Woody drops to the floor.

SFX: ROLLING SOUND

Woody is startled by the noise.

A small yo-yo rolls out from behind a box and falls on its

side.

Spooked, Woody grabs a pencil from the floor and brandishes

it like a weapon.

Just then a shadow passes by Woody.  He turns quickly but

sees nothing.

Woody hurriedly trades his pencil for a larger flashlight.

He hears a NOISE from under Sid's bed.  Woody turns on the

flashlight and shines the beam in the direction of the

noise, illuminating...

A BABY DOLL HEAD'S PROFILE

The baby doll moves out from under the bed, revealing a one-

eyed doll head atop a spider-like body made of erector set

pieces.

The creature extends its legs and rises up taller than Woody.

Scared speechless, Woody keeps his flashlight beam locked on

BABYFACE.

Various other MUTANT TOYS begin to emerge from the shadows:

a toy fishing pole with fashion doll legs, a skateboard with

a combat soldier's torso screwed to the front end, a jack-

in-the-box with a rubber hand for a head, (and others).

Woody leaps onto the bed and hides behind Buzz.

Buzz and Woody look on as the mutants have a tug of war as

they grab all the Janie and pterodactyl parts, dragging them

off into the shadows.

Woody retreats back into the backpack.

INT. BACKPACK - CONTINUOUS

Woody cowers in the corner as Buzz enters.  He punches a

button on his chest.

No response.

Buzz adjusts his laser light.  It emits a short BLIP.

EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Rex points a flashlight out of Andy's bedroom window while

Bo Peep, Slinky, Hamm and Potato Head look on.

Some bushes rustle below.

Rex points the flashlight beam at the shaking bushes.  The

annoyed MEOW of a cat is heard.

SFX: APPROACHING CAR

Rex turns off the flashlight.

The toys duck behind the sill.

The Davis' family van pulls into the driveway.  Andy and Mrs.

Davis get out.

The toys all look at one another.

Hamm, Potato Head and Rex walk away from the window.

Bo Peep and Slinky are left alone at the window, visibly

crestfallen.

EXT. SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW - DAY

SFX: HAND SLAP

INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

An inanimate Woody flies across the room, landing hard on

the floor.

Sid crosses to the window.

Sid opens the window shade.  Bright sunlight shines down

onto Woody.

Sid pulls out a magnifying glass from his back pocket and

focuses the beam on Woody's forehead.

A bright white hot dot forms on Woody's forehead and begins

to smolder.

Sid pulls the magnifying glass away.

Sid runs out of the room.  As soon as he's gone, Woody jumps

up SCREAMING, his forehead burning.

He runs to a bowl of half-eaten cereal (with milk) on the

floor, and dunks his head in.

Buzz runs over to Woody, pausing to remove two suction cup

darts from his person before pulling Woody out of the bowl.

Two colorful Froot-Loops stick to each of Woody's eyes like

glasses.

Woody looks at his reflection in the back of the cereal

spoon and rubs the burn mark on his forehead.

Woody's eyes light up.

ANGLE: SPOON

Sid's bedroom door can be seen in the reflection.  It's open.

Woody runs for the door.  Buzz follows.

THE MUTANT TOYS

suddenly appear and block their path to the doorway.  Woody

hides behind Buzz.

Buzz fires his laser at them.  The little red beam just

flickers against Babyface's head.  The mutant toys look

confusedly at each other.

Grabbing Buzz like a hostage, Woody fends off the mutant

toys by pushing a large button on Buzz's back, making Buzz's

arm involuntarily "chop" up and down.

Woody circles around the mutant toys to the open doorway,

continually chopping Buzz's arm.

Woody drops Buzz and runs out the door.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Woody races down the corridor...

...turns onto the top of the stairwell, down a few steps,

and is confronted by...

SCUD

asleep on the landing.

Woody freezes inches away from the sleeping beast.  He

slowly backs up the stairs.

Suddenly Buzz appears and pulls Woody back against the

hallway wall.  He covers Woody's mouth with his hand.

Buzz checks to make sure Scud is still asleep and then darts

across the stairwell opening to the other end of the hallway.

Once safely across, he motions for Woody to follow.

Woody cowardly crawls on all fours across the open area and

meets up with Buzz.

As he stands...

WOODY'S PULLSTRING RING

gets caught on one of the curls of the wrought iron railing.

The toys begin to creep down the hallway, unaware that

Woody's pullstring is being pulled farther and farther

until --

It SNAPS off the iron railing and flies back towards Woody.

Both Buzz and Woody leap in surprise at the sound of Woody's

voice box.

ANGLE: SCUD'S EYE

It opens.

Woody vainly attempts to stifle the recoiling pullstring.

GROWLING, Scud starts up the stairs.

Woody and Buzz take off running.

Two doors are ajar at the other end of the hallway.  Buzz

dives behind one while Woody jumps into...

A CLOSET

Woody slams the door shut just as Scud reaches the top of

the landing.  CRASHED can be heard from behind the closet

door, getting Scud's attention.

Buzz peeks out from his doorway at Scud SNIFFING AND

GROWLING at the closet.

Sensing movement behind him, Scud whips around and starts to

enter Buzz's doorway.

SFX: SNORING

The noise stops the dog in his tracks.  Both Scud and Buzz

look up to see...

INT. SID'S DAD'S DEN - CONTINUOUS

MR. PHILLIPS is asleep on a La-Z-Boy recliner in front of

the T.V.

Scud backs out and heads down the stairs.

Buzz turns to exit the room when he hears...

Buzz opens up his wrist communicator and is just about to

speak into it when he is interrupted.

Buzz turns around to see...

A TELEVISION SET

Buzz's space ranger logo is on the screen over a field of

stars.  The image quickly changes to two young boys playing

in their backyard with a Buzz Lightyear doll.

Buzz reacts with confusion at what he is watching.  He walks

slowly towards the television set.

ANGLE: TV COMMERCIAL

The Buzz Lightyear doll is now out of the box and being

displayed.

With every feature demonstrated on the TV, Buzz compares the

same feature on himself.

Buzz presses the same button on his uniform.

On the TV screen, the Buzz Lightyear action figure appears

to be launched through the air.  The words:  NOT A FLYING

TOY flash across the bottom of the screen.

Buzz slowly shakes his head in wide-eyed disbelief.

The image on the screen changes to a shot of hundreds of

Buzzes in their boxes lining either side of a store aisle.

Buzz is stricken.  He looks down at his wrist communicator

and opens it.

ANGLE: WRIST COMMUNICATOR

Molded on the underside of the cover are three words: "MADE

IN TAIWAN."

SONG: "I WILL GO SAILING NO MORE" BEGINS

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Buzz walks dejectedly out of the den and down the hallway.

As he passes the top of the stairwell he pauses to look up

through the railing at...

A SMALL WINDOW

It is open, revealing the blue sky beyond.  A bird flies past.

The taunting voice of Woody echoes in his head.

Buzz bows his head, defeated.

BEAT

Slowly Buzz raises his head, determination in his eyes.  He

slams the offending wrist communicator shut, as if to deny

its message of "Made in Taiwan."

Buzz climbs up the railing to the banister.  He pops open

his wings, and aims himself towards the window above.

Buzz leaps off the banister...

and falls.

In SLOW MOTION Buzz watches his square of blue sky pull

farther away from him as he plummets to the floor below.

INT. SID'S HOUSE/ENTRYWAY - CONTINUOUS

Buzz CRASHES on the entryway floor.

Buzz opens his eyes to see...

HIS SEVERED LEFT ARM

The broken arm lies a few inches away from his now empty arm

socket.

Buzz drops his head back in defeat.

SONG ENDS

Hannah walks into the entryway, and not seeing Buzz, steps

on him.

Hannah picks up Buzz (and his arm) and smiles.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - LATER

ANGLE: CLOSET

The knob jiggles for a moment.  Suddenly, the door flies

open revealing Woody, entangled in Christmas lights,

standing atop a pile of boxes to be at doorknob height.

Woody and the rest of the junk topple over.

A bowling ball topples out, smashing Woody square on the head.

Woody creeps down the hallway, dragging the Christmas lights

with him.

Woody peeks into the open doorway of...

INT. HANNAH'S BEDROOM/UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Hannah is pretending to have a tea party.  Her guests are

dolls, headless dolls, that is except for...

BUZZ

He is seated at the miniature table, dressed up in a frilly

apron and fashionable party hat.

Hannah has placed a tiny teapot in Buzz's severed arm and

pours imaginary tea with it.

Woody steps back into the hallway.

Woody thinks for a moment, then takes a few steps further

down the hall.  He CLEARS HIS THROAT.

Hannah stops pouring tea and looks up.

As soon as Hannah exits the room Buzz keels over face-down

onto the table.

Hannah passes Woody, hidden in the Christmas lights, and

walks downstairs.

Woody bolts into Hannah's room.

Buzz lifts his head up and wails in drunken despair.

Woody picks up Buzz's severed arm.

The headless dolls turn and wave.

Woody removes the teapot from the severed arm and sets it on

the table.

Woody presses Buzz's helmet open, slaps him across the face

with his own detached arm, and then politely closes the helmet.

Buzz sobers up and calmly takes his severed arm from Woody.

Buzz walks out of the room while Woody follows.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Buzz reaches the center of the hallway and drops to his knees.

Woody stops short.  He looks down the hallway in the

direction of Sid's room.

ANGLE: SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW

Woody can see straight out Sid's window across the way to

Andy's bedroom window.

Woody grabs the coil of Christmas lights and drags Buzz

towards Sid's room.

EXT. ANDY'S HOUSE/ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW

Mr. Potato Head and Hamm are playing Battleship.  Hamm's

wearing Potato Head's hat.

Potato Head reaches for his ear.

He is about to hand his nose over to Hamm when...

Both toys look across the way.

EXT. SID'S WINDOW/ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW - CONTINUOUS

Woody has just finished lifting Sid's window and waves to

the toys.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Slinky, Bo Peep and Rex look to the window.

INT. SID'S ROOM

Buzz is not there.  Woody looks down at the floor.

Buzz is sitting on the floor, playing "bombs away" with his

broken arm.

EXT. ANDY'S BEDROOM WINDOW/SID'S WINDOW

The rest of Andy's toys gather around the window to see Woody.

Woody tosses one end of the Christmas lights over.  Slinky

catches them.

Potato Head grabs the string of lights away from Slinky.

ANGLE: BUZZ

He doesn't respond, preoccupied with peeling off the sticker

on his wrist communicator.  He crumples it up and tosses it

aside.

INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Frantic, Woody walks over to the edge of the desk.

Buzz's severed arm comes flying into view and lands by

Woody's feet.

EXT. SID'S WINDOW/ANDY'S WINDOW

Woody reappears at the edge of Sid's window.  He pretends to

notice something out of the other toy's view.

BUZZ'S SEVERED ARM

suddenly appears with Woody holding the end just out of

sight.  Woody throws his voice, pretending to be Buzz.

Woody makes Buzz's arm grab his neck and pull him forward.

Woody innocently shrugs and throws both his hands up...

...exposing the severed arm.

The toys all SCREAM in horror.  Rex clasps his hands to his

mouth and turns away to BARF.

Realizing his mistake, Woody tries to hide the arm, but it's

too late.

Potato Head drops the lights.

All the toys leave the window except Slinky.

Unable to look Woody in the eye, Slinky closes the blinds.

SFX: THUNDER

As storm clouds roll over Sid's house, Woody slumps over the

window sill in defeat.

INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

BROKEN TOY SOUNDS emit from behind Woody.  He turns from the

window to see...

THE MUTANT TOYS

converging all around Buzz.

Still holding onto Buzz's arm, Woody jumps down from the

desk and runs to Buzz's rescue.

Babyface turns from the fray and charges at Woody with his

erector-set pinchers.

Woody cowers, shielding himself from Buzz's arm.

Babyface clamps onto the arm and has a tug-o-war with Woody.

Woody loses his grip on the arm and sails across the room,

crashing into the wall.

By now there is no sight of Buzz within the swarming mass of

mutant toys.

Woody attacks the mob with a vengeance.

He furiously throws the mutant toys aside, digging his way

to...

BUZZ

He is sitting up, his broken arm now newly-attached.

Woody's anger turns to confusion.

Woody shakes Buzz's arm to confirm what he's seeing is real

when he looks to the mutants.

The mutant toys part to reveal the recent victims of Sid's

last "operation": The Janie Doll and Pterodactyl.  Their

heads have been taped back on the correct bodies.

The mutants all innocently stare at Woody.

Immediately, the mutant toys retreat back into the dark

corners of the room.

FOOTSTEPS approach the bedroom.  Woody tries to pick up the

still depressed Buzz, but he just goes limp.

Woody begins dragging Buzz towards the bed, but their

progress is too slow.  He shakes Buzz hard.

Woody leaves Buzz sitting alone in the middle of the floor

and hides underneath a nearby milkcrate just as...

Sid enters carrying a big box.

Sid runs over to his workbench and rips open the box.

He pulls out a rocket with "THE BIG ONE" written on it.

Sid spots the milkcrate and picks it up.

No Woody.

ANGLE: UNDERSIDE OF MILKCRATE

Out of Sid's view, Woody presses against the inside, hanging

on for dear life.

SFX: BUZZ'S LASER

Sid looks down and notices he's stepping on Buzz, activating

his laser.

He places Buzz and the milkcrate on the workbench and throws

a toolbox on top of the crate.

The impact of the toolbox dislodges Woody from his hiding

place.  Woody quickly ducks under a magazine on the floor of

the crate "jail."

Woody watches helplessly as Sid fishes out a roll of

electrical tape from the toolbox and, with an IRREVERENT

CHUCKLE, tapes Buzz to the rocket.

SFX: THUNDERCLAP

A flash of lightning interrupts the moment.

Sid crosses to the window to see a huge rainstorm commence.

Sullenly, he smacks his head against the window.

Woody heaves a SIGH of relief.

Suddenly Sid's face brightens.  He turns his focus from the

rain to the Buzzrocket.

Sid smacks Buzz down on the desk, winds his alarm clock, and

places it next to Buzz.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM - THAT NIGHT

Andy is being tucked into bed by his mother.  She hands him

his cowboy hat.

Andy's eyes shut.  Mom turns out the light and quietly exits

the room.

A moving box on the floor, with the words "Andy's Toys!"

scrawled on it, begins to shake from side to side.

Rex pops out of the top of the box, COUGHING a packing

styrofoam peanut out of his mouth.  Potato Head appears

beside him.

Potato Head drops back down into the box.

BO PEEP

peeks around the corner of one of the boxes and looks up at

Andy fast asleep clutching his cowboy hat.

EXT. SID'S HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

THUNDER RUMBLES as rain pours down outside the spooky dwelling.

INT. SID'S ROOM

Sid is in bed fast asleep.

Woody struggles to move his milkcrate jail, but with the

weight of the toolbox on top it won't budge.

Woody looks across the desktop at Buzz sitting dejectedly

with the rocket strapped to his back.

No reaction from Buzz.

Woody picks up a stray washer from the desktop and flings it

at Buzz, striking his helmet.

Buzz lifts his head and turns lifelessly to look at Woody.

Buzz just looks away from Woody and bows his head.

Woody pauses and looks at himself.

Woody pulls his own pull-string.

Woody bows his head.

Woody slumps dejectedly against the crate, his back to Buzz.

Buzz lifts up his foot.

ANGLE: THE SOLE OF BUZZ'S FOOT

The signature "ANDY" reads through the dirt and scuff marks.

Buzz gazes back at Woody.  A look of determination spreads

across his face.

Silence.

Woody turns around.

Buzz is gone.

Suddenly, the entire milkcrate begins to shake.  Woody looks

up to see...

BUZZ

He is on top of the milkcrate, trying to push the tool box off.

Both Buzz and Woody push the milkcrate and together, they

finally get it to move but it's slow progress.

SFX: TRUCK

The two toys stop to look out the window by the workbench.

ANGLE: OUT SID'S BEDROOM WINDOW

With the rain stopped and the sun beginning to rise...

A MOVING TRUCK

can be seen pulling up in front of Andy's house.

Buzz braces himself between the tool chest and the wall.

Using his legs, Buzz pushes with all his might.  The toolbox

begins to move.

Woody notices that with every shove Buzz gives to the tool

chest, the milkcrate begins to edge out over the lip of the

desk.

Finally the gap is wide enough for Woody to jump through.

Woody drops down to the floor below.

Buzz doesn't hear Woody and continues to shove the toolbox

(and milkcrate) farther out.

Woody looks up just in time to see the entire toolbox and

milkcrate topple towards him.

The toolbox CRASHES right on top of Woody.

Buzz falls onto the desktop and glances over to Sid, who

stirs...

Sid does not wake.  Buzz heaves a SIGH OF RELIEF, then peers

over the edge of the workbench.

Woody lifts himself out from under the rubble.

SFX: ALARM CLOCK

It goes off by Sid's bed.  Woody drops back under the

toolbox and Buzz goes limp.

Sid groggily sits up for a beat, then his eyes light up.

Sid jumps out of bed, grabs Buzz and bolts out of the room.

Woody leaps to his feet, runs across the room, and catches

the door just before it closes.  As he swings the door back

open Woody is confronted by...

SCUD

The dog barrels down the hallway straight for Woody.

Woody slams the door shut just in time.  Scud BARKS AND

SCRATCHES at the door.

Woody looks across the room.

THE MUTANT TOYS

have appeared all around the room.

The mutant toys all scatter and hide.

No response.

Woody then notices Babyface timidly peeking out of the

shadows from under the bed.

Babyface crawls out and bangs in code on the side of Sid's

metal bedpost.

The mutant toys emerge from the shadows, and gather around

Woody.  He kneels down into a huddle with them.

INT. ANDY'S BEDROOM

THE MOVERS cart out the last load.  A forlorn Andy clutches

onto Buzz's "spaceship" box in one hand and his cowboy hat

in the other.

Andy scans the empty room and heaves a sad SIGH.

EXT. BACKYARD SHED

Sid comes out of the she carrying a bunch of materials under

his arm.

He drops the junk down beside an inanimate Buzz.

SID'S UPSTAIRS HALLWAY

Scud is planted right outside Sid's bedroom door, poised to

attack anything that exits.

INT. SID'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Woody has created a little diagram of the house and yard out

of dominoes and Scrabble tiles.  He points to it with a

pencil as he addresses the mutants.

LEGS, the toy fishing rod with fashion doll legs, steps

forward from the crowd.

The mutants all give an affirmative nod.

The toys all break.

Legs and DUCKY, a duck head Pez dispenser with baby doll

torso and plunger base, rush over to a heating grate and

pull the face plate off the wall.  They disappear into the

heating duct.

INT. HEATING DUCT - CONTINUOUS

Ducky and Legs come to an intersection.  Ducky QUACKS and

they head down the right tunnel.

INT. SID'S ROOM

HAND-IN-THE-BOX, the rubber hand in the Jack-in-the-box,

stacks on top of several mutant toys to reach the doorknob

of the bedroom door.

Woody hops onto ROLLERBOB, a skateboard with a soldier's

upper torso tied to its front.

WALKING CAR, a Hot Wheels car with baby arms, begins winding

up THE FROG, a tin wind-up frog with monster truck wheels

instead of legs.

INT. SID'S HOUSE/PORCH ATTIC

A bottom of wall insulation is pushed aside to reveal Ducky

and Legs.  They make their way towards a junction box

sitting in the center of the floor.

Ducky and Legs lift the loose junction box.

EXT. SID'S HOUSE/FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS

THE BROKEN PORCH LIGHT

suddenly lifts upward and disappears into the roof.

Ducky extends his Pez neck out of the hole to check that the

coast is clear.

INT. SID'S ROOM

All the toys have manned their positions and wait silently,

their eyes fixed on Woody.

INT. PORCH ATTIC

Ducky takes the end of the line off Legs' fishing reel,

hooks it onto himself, and is then lowered down through the

open hole.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - CONTINUOUS

Hanging halfway down the front door, Ducky begins to swing.

Eventually he swings far enough to reach his destination:

the doorbell.

Ducky presses it.

SFX: DOORBELL

INT. SID'S ROOM

Woody throws his arm down.

Hand-in-the-box throws open the door and The Frog is let loose.

The Frog zips through Scud's legs and down the hallway.

Scud chases after it and follows it down the stairs.

SFX: DOORBELL

Woody helps the rest of the mutant toys onto the skateboard.

Using his front arms, Rollerbob propels the skateboard and

crew out into the hallway.

INT. SID'S HOUSE/ENTRYWAY

SFX: DOORBELL

Hannah walks to the front door...

...and opens it.

EXT./INT. FRONT DOORWAY - CONTINUOUS

Nobody's there.

Hannah doesn't notice Ducky stuck to the porch floor by his

plunger.

THE FROG

zooms down the stairs with Scud BARKING right behind.  The

Frog leaps off the last step, speeds through Hannah's legs

and out the open front door.

Hannah looks back inside at Scud.  In that moment, Ducky

catches the Frog and is quickly reeled upwards back into the

roof.

Scud bursts through Hannah's legs, knocking her over, and

runs out onto the empty porch.

Scud suddenly realizes he's been duped, but before he can

get back inside, Hannah slams the front door shut.

Scud smashes into the closed door and begins BARKING furiously.

As Hannah storms off into another room she doesn't notice

Woody and the mutants zipping off the stairs and round the

corner, heading straight into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

By now RollerBob has really picked up speed.  He shoots

underneath the kitchen table, through the maze of chair

legs, straight towards...

THE PET DOOR

The mutants all push back causing the RollerBob to do a

wheelie.  They smash through the doggie door...

EXT. SID'S BACKYARD - CONTINUOUS

...and catapult into the bushes.

The toys peek out from the bush to see Buzz strapped to the

launchpad.  Sid is still in the toolshed.

Ducky, Legs, and the Frog shoot out into the yard from a

drain pipe.  They exchange a thumbs-up with Woody.

The mutants disperse to their designated places in the yard.

Woody runs towards Buzz, who spots Woody approaching.

Woody stops a few feet away from Buzz.

Woody deliberately falls down limp on the grass.

Sid emerges from the tool shed.  Buzz freezes.

Sid picks up Woody, examines him for a beat and then smiles.

He sticks a match prominently in Woody's holster and tosses

him onto the grill of an open barbecue.

During Sid's countdown, all the mutants scurry into their

final positions.

Sid lights a match.

Sid grins menacingly as the match moves towards the fuse.

Sid pulls back from lighting the fuse.  He turns to look at

Woody still lying lifelessly atop the barbecue except for

the sound emitting from his voice box.

Sid walks over to Woody and picks him up.

He raises Woody up, about to throw him away --

Sid stops short and looks at Woody again.

While Woody's voice box talks, Sid checks the pullstring.

It isn't moving.  Sid GULPS.

The remains of broken toys in the yard, led by the bedroom

mutants, begin rising from the ground in "NIGHT OF THE

LIVING DEAD" fashion.

The toys march forward, forming a circle around Sid.  Sid is

too frightened to scream or move.

Woody's inanimate head rotates 360 degrees.

For a split second Woody's face comes to life.

Sid drops Woody and bolts inside the house.

Woody and all the toys CHEER VICTORIOUSLY.

INT. SID'S ENTRYWAY

Hannah has just come downstairs carrying a new doll when Sid

rushes up to her.

Sid eyes Hannah's doll and pats it gently on the head.

Hannah, sensing Sid's fear, suddenly thrusts the doll in

Sid's face.  He SCREAMS and runs upstairs.  Hannah chases

after him, taunting.

EXT. SID'S BACKYARD

The toys are all congratulating one another.

Woody turns around and looks at Buzz, who's still affixed to

Sid's launchpad.  Buzz extends his hand to Woody.

They shake.

SFX: VAN HORN HONKING

Buzz and Woody look in the direction of Andy's house.

ANGLE: ANDY'S DRIVEWAY - THE FAMILY VAN

Through the fence, Andy and his family can be seen getting

into the van.

Woody quickly hoists Buzz off the pole he was tied to.

With the rocket still taped to Buzz, the two toys sprint

towards the fence.

SFX: VAN ENGINE STARTING

Woody easily slips through the slats in the fence, but

Buzz's rocket causes him to become stuck.

EXT. ANDY'S DRIVEWAY - CONTINUOUS

Woody has climbed up on to the rear bumper of the van before

realizing that Buzz is missing.  He looks back to discover

Buzz stuck in the fence.

Woody jumps down and runs back for Buzz.

The van begins pulling out of the driveway.

Woody tugs on a loosened slat and breaks Buzz free of the

fence.

The two toys run out into the street just in time to see the

van driving off down the street.

SFX: TRUCK ENGINE

Woody and Buzz turn around.

THE MOVING VAN

drives right over them.  Woody and Buzz SCREAM, ducking just

in time.

After the truck passes, Buzz runs after it with Woody a few

steps behind.

ANGLE: SID'S FRONT PORCH

Scud is lying on the porch when he suddenly perks up at the

sight of the two tiny toys running down the street after the

moving truck.

Scud bears his teeth and GROWLS.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET

Buzz runs up close to the truck with Woody still back a few

paces.

A STRAP

dangles off the back of the truck.  Buzz makes a leap for it

and grabs hold.  He climbs up the strap and onto the bumper.

Woody then lunges for the strap but it stays just out of reach.

Woody gives a mighty leap and catches hold of the strap.

Woody begins climbing up when suddenly Buzz goes pale.

Woody looks behind him to see...

SCUD

The dog leaps forward and bites down on one of Woody's legs.

Scud tugs on Woody, pulling him down to the end of the strap.

Buzz leaps off of the truck and onto Scuds snout.  He grabs

Scud's eyelids and snaps them hard.  Scud YELPS, letting go

of Woody.  The dog bucks wildly with Buzz hanging onto his

face.

The moving truck continues down the street leaving Buzz and

Scud behind.

Still hanging onto the strap, Woody scrambles up onto the

bumper.  He unlocks the back door of the truck and tries to

lift up the heavy door.

Suddenly, the family van and moving truck come to a stop at

a traffic light.

Woody slams into the door, causing it to fly upward taking

Woody with it.

Hanging from the door, Woody scans the inside of the truck

until he spots what he's looking for.

A PILE OF MOVING BOXES

with the words "ANDY'S TOYS" written on them in crayon.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD STREET

Scud flings Buzz off his face.  Buzz goes tumbling under a

parked car.  Scud runs over to the car, but is too big to

get under it.

INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

Woody rips into one of Andy's boxes.

ANGLE: INSIDE OF BOX

All the toys wince and MOAN as they cover their eyes from

the sudden brightness.

Woody's response is to slide the box aside and begin

rummaging through the next box.

Slinky, Potato Head, Rex and the other toys GRUMBLE IN

CONFUSION as they poke their heads up out of the first box.

Woody pulls the RC Car and its remote out of the second box.

Woody runs to the back of the truck and throws the RC Car

out onto the street.  The other toys SCREAM in horror.

INTERCUT - EXT. STREET/INT. REAR OF MOVING TRUCK

Woody turns on the remote and steers the RC car past Scud

and under the parked car where Buzz is hiding.

RC's motor WHIRRS happily at the sight of Buzz.

The traffic light turns green allowing the van and truck to

cross the intersection.

All the toys pour out of their boxes and CHARGE on Woody.

Woody continues to steer the remote while trying to avoid

the angry mob of toys.

Buzz jumps on to the RC car and they zoom back towards the

moving truck.

Scud is right on their heels and is about to chomp down on

Buzz --

Rocky picks up Woody and spins him over his head.

-- The RC car suddenly swerves from Scud's jaws and starts

doing doughnuts (matching Woody's) in the middle of the street.

Rocky throws Woody to the floor.

-- RC resumes his course straight down the street with Scud

giving close chase.

Hamm leaps off a pile of boxes and onto Woody.

-- The RC car hops up in the air, tossing Buzz up and off.

Buzz manages to land back on RC, but facing backwards.

ANGLE: TRAFFIC LIGHT

It changes red again and the wall of cross traffic resumes.

Buzz and the RC car drive straight into it.

Scud blindly follows them into the traffic and skids to a

halt just missing a car.  The car swerves and CRASHES into

another car.  Soon there is a multi-car pile up that

encircles Scud, entrapping the dog.

Buzz and the RC car emerge from the intersection safely on

the other side.

INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

The mob of toys lift up Woody (still holding the remote) and

head for the open back.

The toys toss him out into the road.  As the truck drives

off, the toys CHEER.

EXT. STREET - CONTINUOUS

SFX: CAR HORN

Woody turns around and ducks just in time as a car passes

over him.

Shaken, Woody tries to get up again when...

BUZZ & RC

come barreling towards him.

The RC Car sweeps up Woody and keeps driving.

Woody finds himself sitting in front of Buzz (still holding

the remote).

The toys are about to slam into the rear tire of the car

that had passed over Woody earlier.

Woody SCREAMS and gives the steering wheel on the remote a

hard left, missing the tire by inches.  The RC Car moves up

under the car.

ANGLE: RC REMOTE

Woody flicks a switch from "ON" to "TURBO."

The RC Car speeds up towards the moving truck.

INT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

The toys are busy CONGRATULATING one another when Lenny, the

wind-up binoculars, glances out the back and spots Buzz and

Woody.

The toys rush to the edge of the open truck.  Bo picks up

Lenny and looks through him.

ANGLE: BINOCULAR VIEW OF BUZZ & WOODY

EXT. STREET/BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

The RC Car begins to gain on the truck.

Rocky, the wrestler doll, rushes over to a lever on the side

of the back.  The sign above it reads "RAMP: UP/DOWN."

Rocky pushes down hard on the lever.  The ramp begins to lower.

Woody & Buzz look up to see the ramp about to come down

right on top of them.

The RC Car pulls back just before the heavy ramp slams into

the road.  Sparks fly everywhere from the metal scraping the

pavement.

Potato Head and Rex grabs on to Slinky's tail allowing

Slinky's front end to jump off the truck and onto the ramp.

Slinky leans forward with his paw outstretched to Woody.

Woody hands the remote to Buzz and leans forward to grab

Slinky's hand.

ANGLE: WOODY & SLINKY'S HANDS

They grab hold of one another.

All of a sudden, the RC Car begins to slow down pulling

Slinky's front end off the ramp.

His slinky middle begins to stretch and stretch...

RC's headlight eyes sag.  The car slows even more.

As Slinky continues stretching.  The RC Car begins to weave

side-to-side like a water skier.

INT. FAMILY VAN

With Mom and Andy preoccupied, baby Molly looks in her

sideview mirror.

ANGLE: PASSENGER SIDE MIRROR

The RC Car (w/ Woody and Buzz) weaves into view and then

back out.

Molly SQUEALS with delight.

EXT. STREET/BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

With Slinky's mid-section stretched to the limit, he begins

to lose his grip on Woody.

Slinky's hand slips, sending his front shooting back into

the moving truck and knocking over all the toys.

The RC Car sputters to a stop.

Woody and Buzz watch in vain as the family van and moving

truck disappear.

Buzz tosses the remote to the ground in frustration.

BEAT

Woody pulls out the match from his holster that Sid had put

there earlier.

Woody runs around behind Buzz, strikes the match against

RC's back tire, and is about to light the fuse when...

A CAR

whizzes right over them, blowing out the match.

Woody clenches the burnt match in his hands and falls

prostrate to the ground.

Unable to watch a cowboy cry, Buzz bows his head, causing

his helmet to block the sun from Woody.

As Buzz's shadow passes over him, Woody stops whimpering and

looks at his hand.

A WHITE HOT DOT

like the one generated from Sid's magnifying glass, appears

on the back of Woody's hand.

Woody leaps up, grabs Buzz's helmet and aligns it so the

white dot hits the tip of the fuse.

The fuse lights.

Woody jumps back onto the car then suddenly stops smiling.

SFX: ROCKET EXPLOSION

The RC Car rockets forward.  Speeding along the dividing

line in the road, it easily passes car after car until the

moving truck can be seen on the horizon.

EXT. BACK OF MOVING TRUCK

The toys are gathered around Slinky, his spring splayed out

on the floor.

Lenny looks out the back again.

The toys run to the opening and CHEER.

ANGLE: BUZZ AND WOODY

The rocket is so strong that it begins to lift Buzz and

Woody off the RC Car.  Woody manages to continue holding

onto RC -- but not for long.

The toys CHEERING turns to SCREAMING as they rush to get out

of the way of the oncoming "RC rocket."

Woody is forced to let go of the RC Car.

They separate, sending the two toys upward and RC into the

back of the truck.

RC smashes into Potato Head, sending all of his parts flying.

EXT. SKY - BUZZ AND WOODY

The rocket hurtles upward higher and higher.

Buzz confidently presses the button on his chest.

WINGS

jut out of Buzz, severing the tape that holds him to rocket.

The toys separate from the rocket just before it BLOWS UP.

The toys plummet.

Just then Buzz banks under some power lines and soars upward

again.  Woody takes a peek.

They're flying.

They soar gracefully towards the moving truck, but then pass

over it.

ANGLE: FAMILY VAN

Buzz and Woody fly right over the van's sun roof and then

drop into the car.

INT. FAMILY VAN - CONTINUOUS

Before anyone can notice, Woody and Buzz land in an open box

in the back seat right next to Andy.

Andy turns to discover the limp Buzz and Woody lying in the

box.

Andy hugs both toys.

CLOSE UP - WOODY AND BUZZ

They give each other a knowing wink.

EXT. ANDY'S NEW HOUSE - CHRISTMAS MORNING - LIVING ROOM BAY

WINDOW

Through the gently falling snow, the Davis family can be

seen around the Christmas tree unwrapping presents.

INT. ANDY'S NEW HOUSE/LIVING ROOM - CHRISTMAS TREE

One of the Christmas bulbs moves aside to reveal...

THE SARGENT

The plastic green soldier spies on the Davis family with his

binoculars.  He turns and motions back into the tree.

INT. CHRISTMAS TREE

A baby monitor sits wedged between some branches supported

by several green army men.  One of the soldiers turns it on.

INT. ANDY'S NEW BEDROOM

The receiving end of the monitor is atop Andy's night stand.

It CRACKLES WITH STATIC.

Buzz sits on the edge of Andy's bed while Hamm rests on the

nightstand alongside the monitor.  They listen intently.

Woody and the rest of the toys are MINGLING together like a

typical office Christmas party.

The toys all stop and run towards the monitor.

Woody is about to follow when a crook pulls him backwards to

reveal...

BO PEEP

She smiles and points her crook upwards to her sheep perched

on a shelf dangling mistletoe.

Bo drops her crook, dips Woody and KISSES him.

The rest of the toys have congregated below the monitor

restless with "excitement" not fear.

Slinky LAUGHS with Rex.

All the toys CONGRATULATE Potato Head.

Potato Head whips off his moustache piece.

Woody climbs up onto the bed and joins Buzz.  Lipstick now

covers Woody's face.

Buzz bangs on the side of the monitor.  Nothing.

We TRUCK OUT through the window to the EXT. as we HEAR...

SFX: BARKING

We ZOOM BACK through the window to a CLOSE UP of Buzz and

Woody.

They look at one another with a half-smile, half-grimace and

LAUGH WEAKLY.

