THE ISLAND

Written by

Caspian Tredwell-Owen

1/13/04

We PULL BACK, in marked steps, to include neighboring apartments

with identical frosted facades. Then more apartments, above and

below, the tiers linked by ramps and crosswalks. It might be a

prison cellblock but there are no guards apparent. Indeed, the

residents move freely, all notably male, all clad in shearlings,

polo shirts and slacks. It is just another day in Sector Four.

3   INT. NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

Satie's Gymnopedie plays from overhead speakers.

A glass wall looks out across a green mountain valley. The plaza,

formed in curves of creamy ceramic tile, is divided into two service

areas.

Male residents in line on one side, females on the other. Both

genders combine in the seating area. Lincoln reaches the head of

the line. He swipes his ethercuff o v e r a scanner. A NUTRITION

CLERK, a surly woman in uniform, eyes the readout on her screen-

NUTRITION CLERK

Lincoln Six-Echo... Options are dried

fruit, oatmeal or anything in bran.

LINCOLN

What? No bacon?

NUTRITION CLERK

You got a sodium flag, pal - now

what's it going to be?

LINCOLN

Whatever.

He shrugs, disgruntled. The clerk taps her screen. Turning to a

row of chutes behind her, she collects a foil covered bowl and a

drink can. Lincoln, less than appetized, loads his tray with the

oatmeal and juice breakfast. Then he heads into the seating area.

In the seating area, male and female residents sit eating and

chatting happily. Uniformed busboys intermix, clearing and wiping

tables. A divide in this community now starts to become clear...

The busboys, like the nutrition clerk, like all the service,

maintenance, and administrative staff we'll see, have distinct

uniforms but no facial marking. They are known as "outsiders".

The "residents", like Lincoln, have crosshatched scars on their

upper left brows and ethercuffs o n their wrists. Mostly Caucasian,

from mid-twenties to mid-sixties. There are no children here.

We isolate a blonde - mid-20's, fresh, bright eyes, a fragile

beauty, a crosshatch of two verticals and one horizontal. Her

name is ESTER TWO-ALPHA. Seeing Lincoln, she smiles and waves-

ESTER

Lincoln ! Over here!

3.

Lincoln crosses, a little surprised to see her. Pleasantly so.

LINCOLN

Hello , stranger.

ESTER

What? You don't recognize me?

LINCOLN

It's just an expression, that's all.

ESTER

You and your expressions, Lincoln. Now

sit down and ask me where I've been.

LINCOLN

(sits , a spreading smile)

Okay, Ester. Where have you been?

ESTER

At the medical center. Just for tests

but they had me on liquid nutrition.

(forks a mouthful of eggs)

Mmmmm. This is the first solid food

I've had in a week.

LINCOLN

Exciting.

ESTER

That's not the exciting part. I got my

first trimester report: happy, healthy

and contaminant-free... Both of us.

LINCOLN

Us?

ESTER

My baby... It's in perfect condition.

I just hope I can keep it that way. I

still have six months to delivery.

LINCOLN

Then you leave all this behind, huh?

ESTER

Why? Will you miss me?

Her eyes betray a flicker of something. It unsettles Lincoln.

LINCOLN

I'll miss your coffee. C'mon, I

already burned up my quota.

4.

ESTER

Okay. But this is the last time.

In a deliberate move, she drops her napkin on the floor. As she

ducks down to retrieve it, Lincoln steals a gulp of her coffee.

Rising again, Ester registers his souring look.

ESTER

What is it?

Lincoln just nods across the plaza. Ambient conversation is now

ebbing at an arrival. An outsider in a grey, vaguely clerical

uniform - sanguine, settled, precise eyes. He might be a prison

warden but for the generally warm reception. He is known as The

Community Director. His name is MERRICK.

He crosses to a lectern, unlooping a chain from his neck with a

three-forked pendant known as a "tri-key". He slots the tri-key

into the lectern. The glass wall frosts over and pixellates i n t o

a live feed of himself. Now amplified by the plaza speakers,

Merrick begins his address-

MERRICK

Good morning. To everyone here and

everyone watching on etherscreen,

welcome to the community address. Today

I'm coming to you from Sector Four. For

those of you here with sugar quotas, let

me recommend the french toast. I just

tried some and it's excellent, really.

But I know what everyone's hungry for

s o let's move on to the lottery. As

always the draw will be made from our

host sector. So tell me, Sector Four -

is everyone ready for The Daily Spin?

Applause and whistles erupt, mostly from the younger residents,

who take on the zeal of a game show audience. The older ones -

including Lincoln - greet the prospect with labored tolerance.

Merrick turns the tri-key i n the lectern. The glass wall

switches from the live feed to a jumbotron o f flashing text;

- - DAILY SPIN!... GET READY TO WIN!... DAILY SPIN!--

MERRICK

Let The Spin begin.

To a burst of cheers, he turns the tri-key another notch. The

glass wall becomes a spinning blur, like a tumbler on a slot

machine. But instead of icons, it clicks through names, each

separated by a blank line - from "Adams One-Alpha" to "Zucker

Three - Charlie" - scrolling the entire population of Sector Four.

5.

As the spin slows, a pent silence falls. Expectant eyes watch the

names click through the P's, the Q's, the R's, the S's and . . .

- - SPIN WIN!... STARKWEATHER TWO-DELTA... SPIN-WIN!--

MERRICK

Starkweather Two-Delta! Step up!

Cheers and applause as everyone looks for the lucky recipient.

The excitement abates as it becomes clear he's not among them.

MERRICK

Well , Starkweather, if you're watching

on etherscreen - your time has come, my

friend! You're moving out to The Island!

(another burst of cheers)

And the rest of you, never lose hope;

what do we know about The Daily Spin?

THE YOUNGER RESIDENTS

Everyone gets to win!

MERRICK

An d tomorrow it could be you...

Merrick steps down and departs. The plaza reverts to its former

mood, dotted with murmurs of disappointment. Lincoln scowls.

ESTER

Don't worry. Your time will come.

LINCOLN

That's easy for you to say. Your time's

guaranteed. All you have is six months.

ESTER

Six months of mood swings, sore back

and swollen feet. Want to trade places?

LINCOLN

(scowl lifting)

Give me some more of your coffee.

4   INT . SUBWAY PORTAL - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

The portal is spanned by a rank of latticed metal gates, known as

an "ethergate." Residents swipe their ethercuffs o v e r scanners,

the gates hiss open and they step through in systematic order.

6.

5   INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

The subway, formed in arches of creamy ceramic tile, is not

unlike our own. In place of escalators, moving walkways deliver

the residents onto the platform. Along the platform wall runs a

strip of mirrored panels, etherscreen reporting in banner crawl:

- - NEXT STOP... SECTOR 5 - SECTOR 6 - CENTERVILLE...

At the tunnel edge of the platform is a safety fence, where the

residents wait in a patient line, Lincoln among them. His focus

is drawn to two younger residents whispering furtively nearby.

RESIDENT #1

A stim unit says it hits the wall.

RESIDENT #2

Okay . But I get to set the can.

Resident #1 shrugs and hands him a drink can. Resident #2 ducks

under the fence, reaching the can down to the track. Or what

looks like a track. The struts lining the bed are not sleepers

but buffers of galvanized rubber. Nor are there any rails. The

relay system is provided by a series of metal posts, flanking the

buffers to run in twin parallel. Known as "lode-poles," they now

start thrumming and pulsing with red light, like runway beacons.

RESIDENT #1

Hurry it up. The shuttle's coming.

Resident #2 regains the platform. We PUSH IN on the drink can,

balanced on a buffer. It starts rattling. Then suddenly shoots

upward into the air, arcing and bouncing off the tunnel wall,

clattering into obscurity. Resident #1 whoops in victory.

A rush of air heralds the shuttle. It sails out of the tunnel,

floating three feet above the track. A hybrid of subway car and

nautical craft, it has runners in place of wheels, like hulls on

a catamaran. It is buoyed by a magnetic flow emanating from the

lode-poles, an invisible river known as a "lode-stream". The

shuttle drifts to a gentle halt, hovering, rocking a little. Its

gangplanks fold out toward the platform and the safety fence

lowers. Lincoln and the other commuters file routinely aboard.

6   INT . CENTERVILLE - DAY

An avenue of cream colored buildings. Uniform in architecture,

rising five stories to meet a mirrored roof. Despite lighting

arrays, the absence of sky lends a chasmic quality . Lincoln

follows the flow of residents up the avenue. Building signs read:

"Dept. Of Labor", "Dept. Of Health", "Dept. Of Sanitation". He

splits off, turning into a building marked "Dept. Of Population."

7.

7   INT. OFFICES - DEPARTMENT OF POPULATION - DAY

Frosted glass workstations, notably circular rather than square.

Lincoln sits at his desk in front of a wraparound etherscreen,

divided into three sections, a formation known as a "visor".

Right-visor shows a polymorph in fractal cycle, like a permanent

screen saver. Mid-visor shows a tomograph of a residential block;

tiers of apartments shown as boxes, most in solid white, a few

blink red with the text label "Vacancy". Left-visor shows a list

of names and sociographic grading sheaded "Residents Pending".

LINCOLN (TO VISOR)

Hudson Four-Alpha; profile reviewed.

Match to vacancy; 171, Sector 5.

Request clearance to populate.

- - PROCESSING . . . FOUR-ALPHA, HUDSON; POPULATION APPROVED

Left-visor, the name highlights then blinks out. Mid-visor, a

box labelled "Vacancy" turns from blinking red to solid white.

A VOICE (O.S.)

Hey, you want to know something?

Lincoln looks up at a face grinning over the partition - mid

30's, jovial, tall and burly. His name is JONES THREE-BRAVO.

JONES

You know that guy who won the Spin in

your sector? Starkweather?

LINCOLN

No.

JONES

I had a bout with him last week. Guess

how long he's been here? Six months.

LINCOLN

Six months?

JONES

You don't believe me - look it up.

LINCOLN (TO VISOR)

Census File: Two-Delta, Starkweather.

- - TWO - DELTA , STARKWEATHER: 102, SECTOR 4 -- DAY: 186 / HR: 09:31

JONES

What do you say now? Still think The

Spin's rigged for the long haulers?

8.

LINCOLN

He got lucky, that's all.

JONES

And don't you wish it was you... out

there on The Island... nature's own

clean air zone... no screening, no

quotas... unlimited pleasure...

LINCOLN

Shut up, Jonesy.

JONES

Why don't you make me? In the ring.

LINCOLN

You're out of my weight-class.

JONES

Not anymore. They just got the new

program in - multi-weight balancing.

LINCOLN

I'll think about it.

JONES

C'mon, champ. A stim unit says you

won't last three rounds.

8   INT . BOXING RING - CENTERVILLE - EARLY EVENING

- C R A C K - The same face recoils from a punch. Jones shakes it off,

retreating, recovering. He resets his guard as Lincoln moves in.

Lincoln jabs at Jones' defenses, his blowing hitting harder than

we'd expect from his stature. Suddenly he breaks through with a

left hook. Jones staggers back. A strange ripple distorts his

face. Stranger still, his skin tone takes on a grainy pallor.

As the bout continues, we widen to see the boxing ring is indeed

a ring rather than a square and beyond the ropes is an outer ring.

With Lincoln in FG, we now see another figure in the outer ring,

mirroring his moves, dressed identically but for the gloves which

are like gauntlets. The gauntlets are rigged to two armatures

which are, in turn, rigged to a gantry-like mechanism. It glides

noiselessly to and fro, shadowing the figure round the outer ring.

RACK FOCUS reveals the figure is also Lincoln . The real Lincoln,

in fact. The one in FG is a derivative hologram known as a "proxy".

As Lincoln fakes and jabs, the counter-weighted armatures drag

and recoil, duplicating the exertions of his proxy. Jones moves

more sluggishly, his proxy now ghostly, transparent. Now being

sent on a last offensive only to be roundhoused by another left

hook. Jones' proxy topples and explodes into a pixellated mist.

9.

LINCOLN

Whoooooo!

Lincoln proxy - and Lincoln - punch the air in victory. Jones

unlatches his gauntlets, sweating, galled by the defeat-

JONES

Sure you input the right weight class?

LINCOLN

You're just too slow, Jonesy.

JONES

You're faster `cause you're lighter.

Programmers... they always miss

something.

LINCOLN

Hey, you put up, now pay up.

9   INT . STIM BAR - CENTERVILLE - EVENING

Rainbow light and swirling electronic music. The clientele are

all male residents. Round the walls, poster-sized etherscreens

display various dancing women, beckoning, text supers flashing:

- - NEW AT THE PLEASURE CENTER!... OR TRY A MYSTERY DATE!...

At the bar, Lincoln and Jones, freshly showered, each swipe their

ethercuffs over a scanner. A uniformed BARTENDER notes the readout-

BARTENDER

Jones Three-Bravo; you got five units.

Your friend, he's got an alcohol flag.

JONES

So make it a beer and a Vita Cola.

The bartender serves the drinks and they settle at the end of the

bar. Scoping for onlookers, Lincoln steals a gulp of Jones' beer.

JONES

You know, you're going to get yourself

contaminated one of these days.

LINCOLN

Shut up, Jonesy.

JONES

So, you up for a rematch tomorrow?

LINCOLN

I can't. I got an interact.

10.

JONES

With who? That blonde again?

LINCOLN

Hey, it's an authorized interaction.

We're on the same meditation program.

JONES

You want to get flagged for proximity?

LINCOLN

No law against friendship, Jonesy.

JONES

Quick . . . Give me that beer back.

TWO CENSUS OFFICERS ("CENSORS") enter the bar; in wireless head-

sets and white uniforms, they seem at once clinical and military.

CENSOR 1 carries a tablet known as an "etherboard". CENSOR 2,

more imposing, carries a wide-muzzle rifle known as a "stopgun".

Their foreboding appearance is greeted without alarm. As they

move up the bar, the customers dutifully swipe their ethercuffs

over the etherboard. Now reaching Jones, who swipes accordingly-

JONES

What's going on, officer?

CENSOR 1

Census check.

Censor1 checks the etherboard; a headshot of Jones spins in 3-D.

He offers it to Lincoln who swipes his ethercuff emphatically-

LINCOLN

What happened? You lost count?

CENSOR 1

I hope nobody's drinking off-quota.

LINCOLN

Vita Cola all the way, officer.

Lincoln sips his cola. As they move on, he grimaces at the taste.

10   INT . SHUTTLE - IN TRANSIT - LATER

Lincoln stares out of the window. The red pulse of the lode poles

catches a glazed look in his eyes. His pupils, a little dilated.

His focus returns to the interior and an etherscreen banner:

- - G E T READY FOR THE DAILY SPIN!... TOMORROW IT COULD BE YOU...

11.

11   INT. BEDROOM - LINCOLN'S APARTMENT - THE NEXT DAY

The horizon. The morning sun streams over the green mountains.

Lincoln lies sleeping, his head buried under the pillow. Off a

beeping sound, he stirs and squints up at the mirrored ceiling:

- - ETHER CALL PENDING ; ACCEPT OR SEND TO MESSAGE BANK?

LINCOLN

Accept.

The etherscreen resolves Ester's face, fresh and bright.

ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)

Lincoln? I missed you at breakfast.

LINCOLN

I guess I overslept.

ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)

I just wanted to check we're still on

for tonight. The interact.

LINCOLN

Right. I'll be there.

ESTER (ON ETHERSCREEN)

I'll see you then. Enjoy your day!

Her face blinks out. Lincoln gets out of bed with a smile.

12   INT . RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

Lincoln exits his apartment and heads up the walkway. We reveal

the walkway ends at another ethergate, governing residential

access. Lincoln swipes his ethercuff o v e r a scanner and a gate

swings open. He heads on, the gate hissing closed behind him.

13   INT . NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

Ravel's Pavane plays overhead. The plaza is emptying as residents

leave for work. Lincoln arrives at the service counter. He

swipes his ethercuff and greets the clerk with an amiable grin.

LINCOLN

Just juice today. I'm late for work.

NUTRITION CLERK

Too bad. I gotta serve the full meal.

Lincoln shrugs, his gaze wandering past her into the kitchens.

His grin fades as he spots TWO CENSORS talking to a busboy. Then

the view is lost as he's served an oatmeal and juice breakfast.

12.

14   INT. SUBWAY PLATFORM - SECTOR FOUR - DAY

Not so crowded at this hour. Halfway down the platform we see a

vending machine with confections in nameless silver wrappers. A

mouse-ish resident collects a bar from the trough. His name is

KLEINWORT NINE-ALPHA. Seeing Lincoln approach, he preempts-

KLEINWORT

No, no, no. Use your own sugar quota.

LINCOLN

C'mon, Kleinwort...

He says this amicably enough but he's using his imposing presence

on the smaller man. Kleinwort sighs and breaks off a chunk.

LINCOLN

So what's up with the Censors, huh?

KLEINWORT

They're conducting a census check. Or

don't you watch the bulletins?

LINCOLN

I know what it is. I've just never

seen them out in this sector before.

KLEINWORT

Probably just tracking a glitch. A bad

scanner or maybe an userware defect.

(off Lincoln's puzzled look)

Ethercuffs. They get damaged, you get

a false read. Sometimes even a dropout.

LINCOLN

What are you saying? They lost someone?

KLEINWORT

Someone just isn't showing up where

they should be. What do you care?

A rush of air heralds the shuttle, curtailing the conversation.

Beneath his tousling hair, a frown plays on Lincoln's brow.

15   INT . LINCOLN'S WORKSTATION - DEPT. OF POPULATION - DAY

Lincoln stares at the fractal on right-visor, at the intricate

paths of dysplasia. The glazed look has returned to his eyes,

his pupils, a little dilated. His stare narrows at an errant

thought. He shrugs it off. But the thought returns, persistent.

More to dispel than indulge it, Lincoln turns to mid-visor-

13.

LINCOLN (TO VISOR)

Census File: Two-Delta, Starkweather.

- - T W O - D E L T A , STARKWEATHER: 102, SECTOR 4 - DAY: -- / HR: --

LINCOLN (TO VISOR)

Accomodation Status : 102, Sector 4.

The tiered boxes resolve, zooming in to isolate Apartment 102.

The box shows solid white. Lincoln frowns, assimilating this.

LINCOLN

Hey , Jonesy. Remember the guy who won

The Spin yesterday? His apartment's

still showing as occupied.

JONES (O.S.)

So?

LINCOLN

So you get 24 hours to move out.

JONES (O.S.)

Maybe the system didn't update yet.

LINCOLN

No. It updates on the hour. If he's

gone it should be showing a vacancy.

JONES

(appearing over the partition)

What? You think he's still here? The

guy wins a place on The Island and you

think he just decided not to go?

LINCOLN

I don't know. He wasn't there to step

up. And now there's a census check...

JONES

And now nothing. It's probably the

programmers messing up.

LINCOLN

Maybe.

JONES

A stim unit says I can prove it. Cross

reference with sanitation.

LINCOLN (TO VISOR)

Sanitation Status: 102, Sector Four.

14.

--PROCESSING... APT. 102; CLOSED FOR CONTAINMENT CHECK--

JONES

See ? Standard procedure. They got to

sweep it for the next occupant.

Their supervisor interrupts them - an outsider, efficient-type-

SUPERVISOR

If you gentlemen aren't busy... Perhaps

I could get an update on sector six?

LINCOLN

Still in the electrical phase, sir.

SUPERVISOR

Well the guys upstairs are griping

about the backlog. So go over there

and light some fires, will you?

LINCOLN

(pulls on his jacket to leave)

I'll take care of it.

SUPERVISOR

Aren't you forgetting something?

(holds up A STEEL BRIEFCASE)

Or do you want to get contaminated?

16   INT . CONSTRUCTION ZONE - SECTOR SIX - DAY

An arc of blue light. A uniformed worker steers a plasma torch

over a conduit. In the fog of smoke, we see wires being spliced,

circuits, tested. Outsiders in hardhats, goggles and cup masks.

Lincoln comes over the crosswalk, starkly contrasted in dacron

coveralls and a hooded gasmask. THE CREW FOREMAN intercepts him -

drawn, desiccated features, a husky drawl. His name is MCCORD-

MCCORD

Sorry, chief. I can't let you get any

closer. We got live wires over there.

Lincoln's reply is muffled by the gasmask, lost in the noise.

MCCORD

What's that you said?

Lincoln repeats to no avail. Frustrated, he peels off his gasmask-

LINCOLN

I said I can't hear you.

M c C o r d c h u c k l e s at the irony.

15.

MCCORD

He y , you get yourself contaminated,

don't come pointing the finger at me.

LINCOLN

How are you doing, Mac?

MCCORD

You know how it is. `Gets to the end of

shift, `crew starts draggin t h e i r feet.

LINCOLN

We l l the guys upstairs are griping

about the backlog. They want to know

when you'll be ready for move in.

MCCORD

I guess if we bust our backs, we could

be out of here by the end of the week.

LINCOLN

I'll tell them two weeks.

MCCORD

Thanks , chief. I appreciate that.

LINCOLN

So . . . got any stuff on you today?

17   INT . AIRLOCK - SECTOR SIX

A sign reads "Warning! Contamination Risk!". Lincoln stands by as

McCord u n l o o p s a neckchain w i t h a single-forked pendant known as

a "uni-key". He slots it into the top of three keyholes. A light

starts flashing and the airlock gives a heavily pressurized hiss.

18   INT . EXTRACTOR SHAFT

A deep steady thrum. Giant extractor fans churn above and below,

both directions seemingly limitless. The bleak concrete shaft is

streaked with soot, threaded by ladders and catwalks. On one

such, we isolate Lincoln and McCord. B o t h smoking cigarettes.

LINCOLN

I t ' s too bad.

MCCORD

What do you mean?

LINCOLN

T h a t your shift's almost over.

16.

MCCORD

You mean, these things? Well, these

things ain't good for you anyways.

LINCOLN

The y taste good.

An exchanged smile. A pause as they enjoy the guilty pleasure.

LINCOLN

I like coming here. Talking. Most

outsiders don't like to talk.

MCCORD

That's because we ain't supposed to.

They got rules about fraternization.

Lincoln nods. Another pause as they drag on their cigarettes.

LINCOLN

What do you do when the shift's over?

MCCORD

M o r e of the same. They cycle us onto

the disposal detail. Hump `n dump crew.

LINCOLN

H u m p `n dump crew?

MCCORD

D e b r i s clearance. We hump the heavy

stuff to a site on the outside.

LINCOLN

Is it as bad as they say out there?

M c C o r d l o o k s momentarily puzzled. Lincoln displays his gasmask.

LINCOLN

The air... the containments.

MCCORD

Right.

LINCOLN

But not everywhere. Not on The Island.

MCCORD

( b e a t , stubs his cigarette)

I don't know too much about that.

Lincoln eyes him narrowly. McCord p a u s e s , then tucks his lighter

into the cigarette box and offers it with a palliative smile.

17.

MCCORD

He y , take it from me, you got a sweet

deal right here. So why worry, huh?

Lincoln shrugs, accepting the gift with a slow exhale of smoke.

We tilt up to follow the smoke plume, dissipating into the fans.

19   EXT . THE WORLD OUTSIDE - DAY

A i r blasts up from a giant tunnel.

W i d e n i n g , we see it is one of a huge ring, planted in the dust,

backdropped b y mountainous red rocks. At the hub of the ring is

a large cubic building. From its facets, giant appendages of

ducting plunge into its surround. These are the inlets for the

processed air that feeds the underground...

This is the landscape of the world outside and manifestly above.

F r o m the processing plant, we pull back and up, raking over a

large industrial complex. More cubic buildings, cream colored,

windowless, like stacks of giant playing bricks. Now we see the

front of the complex. The planate f a c a d e , faceless but for the

entrance, cubed in polarized glass, like a dark cyclopean eye.

F r o m the entrance, we follow a walkway out to a dock where the

ground drops away into a broad concrete trench; like the subway,

lined with lode-poles and buffers, it is known as a "lodeway".

From the dock, we follow the lodeway out to a perimeter wall; red

rock slabs, twenty feet high, framing a giant gateway. The gates

now glide open to disclose a view of the world outside the wall-

The shimmering bleached wilderness of The Arizona Desert.

O u t in the distance, where the lodeway tapers into the scrub, a

vehicle emerges from the shimmer. A hybrid of bus and nautical

craft, single hulled, known simply as a "liner". Now as the

liner becomes clearer, a decal on its prow is revealed - a

crosshatch insignia over a blocky l e g e n d "The Sanger Institute".

20   INT . ENTRANCE HALL - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY

The polarized glass shows the liner has docked and A TOUR GROUP

is disembarking. The men are mostly over 40, bloated by luxury.

The women, mostly under 30, wives and girlfriends, all jewels and

haute couture. They filter into the entrance hall to be greeted

by the courtesy staff. Pretty girls in short skirts and blazers

with the crosshatch insignia, led by a pert redhead named LYDIA.

LYDIA

L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia

and on behalf of our staff, I'd like

t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute.

18.

LYDIA (cont'd)

Before we start the tour, we'll be serv-

i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center

and circulating our standard discretion

agreements. I should add that today you

are all very lucky because our CEO and

founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us

and will be leading the tour personally.

21   INT . INNER FOYER - LATER

The crosshatch emblem spins on a wall-to-wall screen. Not a real

screen but a projected flat known as a "holoframe". Here, Lydia

assembles the tour group, nursing wine glasses and canapes. The

holoframe fades up a serene music track and a commercial begins:

A series of vignettes; an old man shuffling on a walking frame --

a middle-aged woman in a bathing suit, one breast flattened by a

mastectomy -- a young woman in labor, her face knotted in pain.

The group watches with frowns and disapproving mumbles. Then-

V O I C E (O.S.)

I t ' s not a pretty sight, is it?

E y e s turn to a figure behind them, dressed in a vestmental w h i t e

labcoat - 70's, tall, slightly hunched by senility, eyes like

quicksilver, glittering. He has the hauteur of a visionary

stooping to the role of a salesman. His name is DR. HENRY SANGER.

DR. SANGER (cont'd)

M o r t a l i t y . We all know its face and yet

w e look away, don't we? We deny that our

l i v e s are ordained to suffering. That

w e are all, inalterably, going to die.

He pauses, fielding the various disconcerted looks. Then smiles.

DR. SANGER

I t takes courage to confront mortality,

my friends. And I see it in each of

y o u . My name is Dr. Henry Sanger and

I'm here to reward your courage.

L y d i a applauds. The tour group dutifully follows suit. Sanger

whispers a question in Lydia's ear. She broadcasts her response-

LYDIA

T o d a y ' s group is from New Gaza Health

Care. They're with the platinum plan.

DR. SANGER

N e w Gaza. Yes, very good oncology unit.

M u l l i n g this, he ambles through the holoframe which ripples at

his passage. Rallied by Lydia the tour group follows him into--

19.

22   INT. SALES HALL - DAY

A hall of windows, each window framing a display case, each

display case housing a different taxidermied a n i m a l . Not unlike

a museum. On closer inspection, more like a chamber of horrors.

I n one window is a pig with a horribly distended abdomen. Another,

magnified, shows a mouse with a human ear grown on its back. In

another, a chimpanzee stares out at us with glaringly human eyes.

DR. SANGER

I t doesn't get any prettier, does it?

But this is not a freakshow, my friends.

This is a war museum. A history of our

battles with mortality... and defeats.

Take the stem cell, for instance. A bid

to cultivate human parts for transplant -

in rodents, primates, barnyard animals.

It's enough to make your skin crawl. In

some cases literally, giving rise to a

new range of cross-species viruses. But

that's how we learn. From our mistakes.

The y turn a corner. Another hall of windows, portals onto tanks

of amber fluid that might be formaldehyde. Suspended within are

embryos, fetuses and infants. All human. All grotesquely mutated.

DR. SANGER

C a s e in point, the clone. Back in the

beginning, the mapping of the human

genome was declared a historic landmark-

t o break the curse of heredity, to

correct congenital defect... genetic

engineering became the brave new world

of medical science. A bright future

that led to a dark age and much of the

legislation we know today. But while

the clone laws may have narrowed the

field, science marches on. Only to hit

the same wall over and over again - the

enigma of growth, the alchemy that

takes us from embryo to adult. A clone

barely reaches infancy before its

growth enzymes misfire, resulting in

the kind of monstrosities - which are

only effigies - you see here.

S o m e reassured sighs from the women. They turn another corner onto

another hall. A hall of mirrors. Simple, full-length mirrors.

DR. SANGER

So what do we learn from our mistakes?

That human parts cannot grow outside a

human body. That human bodies cannot

grow outside nature's grand design.

20.

A FAT MAN, supporting his bulk with a walking stick, grunts -

T H E FAT MAN

S o what the hell are we doing here?

DR. SANGER

L e t ' s say one day you go to your doctor

for a checkup. He discovers you have

imminent renal failure and require a

kidney transplant. What would you do?

T H E FAT MAN

I wouldn't do nothing. My brother'd

g i v e me one of his. Or else.

DR. SANGER

E v e n if your brother's kidney is with-

o u t defect, there's still a 38% chance

of rejection. Or less if he's your twin.

T H E FAT MAN

He's not. He's older.

DR. SANGER

But what if you did have a twin?

O f f the fat man's confused look, Sanger smiles and gently coaxes

him to face a mirror. Their reflections stare back at them.

DR. SANGER

What if you had a genetic double who'd

give you not just one of his kidneys,

but both? In fact, any organ or body

part you ever had cause to need?

T H E FAT MAN

What ? You mean like a clone? I thought

you said all that stuff was a bust.

DR. SANGER

I said the problem with a clone is it

doesn't survive infancy. The solution

is to find a different starting point.

Why sow the seed when you can create

the fruit? Or what we like to call...

an "agnate".

L y d i a starts clapping., then s t o p s , realizing this wasn't a cue.

DR. SANGER

An agnate is sequenced from a point on

the cellular timeclock. I t is spawned

post-maturate. It is `created' adult.

21.

DR. SANGER (cont'd)

O f course, its brain is still vestigial

s o for the first three years we keep it

i n suspension. During which time we use

d a t a impression to supply a template

f o r functionality - a process we call

" f o u n d a t i o n " . After foundation we

t r a n s f e r the agnate into "containment"

w h e r e it enters the conditioning

p r o c e s s . An ongoing series of quality

c o n t r o l s designed to test and maintain

i t s functionality. After a minimum of

t w o years conditioning, the agnate

b e c o m e s eligible for harvest...

( t o the FAT MAN, smiling)

An d you, my friend, get your new kidney.

A hush falls among the group as they process what they've heard.

It's a sign of the times that none of them seems to be horrified.

T H E FAT MAN

L e t me see if I got this straight. You

can create this whatever... this walking

spare parts holder... but I gotta w a i t

five years to get hold of em?

DR. SANGER

The spare parts, as you put it, need to

be tested for integrity. But as many of

our clients leave it till late in life

to take out the policy, we do offer the

option for early harvest. Given the

risks, however, a waiver is required.

T H E FAT MAN

S o five years or no warranty? For the

premiums you're asking?

DR. SANGER

An d what if the organ you   needed was a

heart? Ask yourself, each     of you. If

you had to put a price on     your life,

your very survival - what     would it be?

A deep lull as the group considers this. Sanger picks his moment.

DR. SANGER

I t ' s a question your insurance company

has already answered. For them, the

agnate obviates costly and ineffective

treatment programs. Should you decide

t o take out our policy, not only will

they lower your existing premiums but

they'll also cover the production cost.

22.

The incentive ripples across the faces. A troubled one speaks up-

T O U R MEMBER

This "agnate"... what happens to it?

After our friend here gets his kidney.

DR. SANGER

That's entirely his decision. Our role

is intermediary. We, as the insurance

provider, guarantee the condition and

availability of the agnate but all

other rights are retained. In legal

terms, the policy holder is defined as

a "sponsor". The premiums, in effect,

becoming sponsorship payments,

maintaining the agnate until such time

as harvest is required. At such time

and where feasible, the sponsor has

the option to extend sponsorship,

retaining the agnate for secondary

harvest or, shall we say, let the

policy expire.

T O U R MEMBER

E x p i r e ? You mean... let it die?

DR. SANGER

N o . Not as you and I know it, at least.

The associations of life and death are

no more applicable to an agnate than to

a cow in a field. It exists in a state

of limited consciousness - aware not of

life but of functionality. Imbued with

the knowledge to maintain its function

but without the capacity to question it.

And yet, in many ways, the end if the

most humane part of the process. The

agnate goes to harvest without any fore-

b o d i n g and is painlessly returned to the

sleep from whence it came. Eternal or

otherwise. There is mortality for an

agnate. Just utility and redundancy.

T O U R MEMBER

S o it doesn't know? It doesn't know

its... its p u r p o s e in life?

DR. SANGER

W h o does know my friend? Who among us

knows our true purpose in life?

S a n g e r ambles on, plunged in thought. Lydia picks up the slack-

23.

LYDIA

This month we're offering a special

rate for new sponsors. Including a 10%

discount on the his-and-hers plan.

She ushers the group round another corner. Another holoframe and

another commercial, displaying the same characters as the first;

The old man with the walking frame is now running in a park--

The woman with the mastectomy is now at a party, her cocktail

dress broadcasting a full cleavage -- The young mother is now in

a waiting room, smiling as a doctor hands her a newborn baby.

LYDIA

DR. SANGER? Would you like to close?

DR. SANGER

Yes . . . Now some of you may be thinking

this commercial is staged. But these are

not actors, these are past customers.

Real p e o p l e enjoying the real f r u i t s of

sponsorship. What we offer here at The

Sanger Institute is not just health

insurance but indemnity. What we offer

is the chance of a new lease on life...

The tour group applauds, this time without prompting from Lydia.

DR. SANGER

N o w Lydia will walk you through the

rest of the tour and explain the

various limitations and exclusions.

But I do have time for a few questions.

H a n d s are raised. A waspish-looking woman butts ahead of them-

T H E WASP

The commercial. The girl with the baby.

What is that? A fix for infertility?

DR. SANGER

You mean the maternity plan? No.

N o t endemic infertility at least. As I

said, the law prohibits genetic

alteration so a defect endemic in a

sponsor will also be present in their

agnate. No, what the maternity plan

provides is a way round the risks and

rigors of childbirth. Under this plan,

an agnate becomes eligible for

pregnancy shortly after foundation. A

simple donation of sperm from the

father, then the agnate is fertilized

and brings your baby to term.

24.

THE WASP

An d then what? You get it in the mail?

DR. SANGER

F o r practical reasons, delivery is

handled by your healthcare p r o v i d e r .

T H E WASP

An d "the agnate" - what happens to it?

When it's, you know - delivered.

DR. SANGER

The same rule applies. You can continue

your sponsorship. Or not. And in this

case, there's a natural window for

compliance as the agnate is routinely

sedated after delivery. As to whether

it wakes up from that sleep, like I

said, the choice is yours...

T H E WASP

( b e a t , a shrug)

An y t h i n g to avoid stretch-marks, right?

The other tour members, some more guiltily than others, laugh.

23   EXT . PROCESSING PLANT

A i r blasts up from the same giant tunnel, swallowing the laughs.

24   INT . EXTRACTOR SHAFT

The acoustic hollowing as we look up from the now empty catwalk.

The blast of air fading into the deep, steady thrum of the fans.

25   INT . CONTAINMENT

The thrum fading to silence. A flat, measured silence as we

revisit the community in soundless montage. The residential

block, the frosted facades. The nutrition plaza, the counters,

the chutes. The subway, the moving walkways. Centerville, the

buildings now emitting a trickle of agnates, ending their

workday - unwitting participants in their own greater utility.

26   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - CENTERVILLE

A glass wall looks down on the avenue. The furniture is trans-

p a r e n t , ethereal. Merrick sits at a console desk studying an

etherboard. O f f a buzz, he taps a button. The door opens and

Lincoln enters, composing a deadpan. He doesn't like this man.

LINCOLN

You wanted to see me?

25.

MERRICK

Yes . Please, take a seat.

He taps     a button. The glass wall frosts over. It's unnerving but

Lincoln      stays deadpan, moving the chair before taking a seat.

Merrick      reviews the etherboard: Lincoln's headshot s p i n n i n g in

3D w i t h   a scroll of data. Then he looks up, forming a smile-

MERRICK

How ' s Lincoln Six-Echo today?

Lincoln shrugs, noncommittal. Merrick eyes him thoughtfully.

MERRICK

E v e r y t h i n g going okay?

LINCOLN

I guess not.

MERRICK

Why do you say that?

LINCOLN

I f I'm here.

MERRICK

I'm not sure I deserve such a negative

association. My job's only to see that

you're happy. That everything's okay.

LINCOLN

Right.

MERRICK

I t sounds like you don't believe me.

LINCOLN

Why wouldn't I?

MERRICK

( s i t s back, smiling)

I t ' s part of your makeup. To challenge

things. To question what's around you.

LINCOLN

Ah.

MERRICK

P e r h a p s you can utilize that facility

by helping me solve a little puzzle.

Lincoln shifts, feeling uneasy. Merrick consults the etherboard-

26.

MERRICK

You're doing well in most areas - pro-

f i c i e n t a t work, exercising rigorously,

your last medical puts you in excellent

condition. But screening's picked up

some deviations. Trace levels, changes

in your sleep pattern... I see you've

also been burning up your quotas...

LINCOLN

A r e you saying I'm contaminated?

MERRICK

No.

LINCOLN

The n what's the problem?

MERRICK

The r e are parameters, Lincoln. When

someone starts straying from those

parameters, we need to find out why.

LINCOLN

Why?

MERRICK

Because you - not just you, all of our

residents - are special. Because people

like me don't get to go to The Island.

He smiles. Lincoln stays deadpan, wondering where this is going.

MERRICK

S o tell me, have you noticed any

changes in yourself?

LINCOLN

No.

MERRICK

What about your sleep pattern? You

feel you've been sleeping properly?

Lincoln shrugs, refractory.

MERRICK

L e t me put it another way, when you

wake up, do you feel... disrupted?

LINCOLN

Disrupted?

27.

MERRICK

R e s t l e s s , disoriented, uneasy...

LINCOLN

I don't know.

MERRICK

They're all words in your vocabulary.

I know you understand what they mean.

Lincoln ' s jaw clenches, patronized. Merrick notes this, resumes-

MERRICK

Quotas . . . nutrition. Do you feel like

you want more than you're given?

LINCOLN

I don't know.

MERRICK

Do you have any difficulty staying

focused? At work, for instance?

Lincoln ' s jaw twitches. Merrick notes this, proceeds with care-

MERRICK

H a v e you been experiencing feelings,

sensations you don't quite understand?

LINCOLN

I don't know.

MERRICK

Do you sometimes feel agitated for no

apparent reason? Frustrated, angry...

LINCOLN

That's it.

MERRICK

An g r y ? You feel angry?

LINCOLN

Right.

MERRICK

When exactly do you feel angry?

LINCOLN

Now...

Lincoln leans forward as if to assert this. Merrick slowly nods

like he's just revealed something. He taps the etherboard-

28.

MERRICK

I'm going to order some tests at The

Medical Center. In the meantime, I'd

like you to stay away from stimulants -

protein, sugar, caffeine...

LINCOLN

I already burned up my quotas.

MERRICK

But I know you can get around them.

He levels a knowing look. Lincoln stiffens again, unsettled.

MERRICK

I'm asking you to cooperate. Not for

my sake, Lincoln, but for your own.

LINCOLN

Is that it?

MERRICK

The r e is one other thing. You have a

female friend. "Ester". Your file shows

you've been interacting regularly.

LINCOLN

The r e ' s no law against friendship.

MERRICK

O f course not. We encourage interaction

in the hope it'll be of mutual benefit.

But given these deviations... let's

just say proximity becomes an issue.

LINCOLN

I know the rules of proximity.

MERRICK

The rules of proximity apply to sexual

contact, Lincoln. In this case it goes

deeper than that. Ester is entering

h e r second trimester. A time of change

and emotional confusion. Further inter-

a c t i o n might be... unhealthy for you.

Lincoln , patronized, looks away. This pill he won't swallow.

MERRICK

An d for Ester - well, she has only six

months left to delivery. Then she'll

move out to The Island and whatever

ties she has here will be broken.

29.

MERRICK (cont'd)

A s a friend, shouldn't you make her

t r a n s i t i o n as painless as possible?

Lincoln ' s deadpan falters. This one, a bitter pill, he swallows.

MERRICK

G o o d . Now I'm also going to refill

your pleasure quota. It may help to

settle you down a little.

LINCOLN

Thank you. I feel much better now.

MERRICK

I'm not sure you do. But I think

you'll do what's right, Lincoln. You

may not trust me. But I trust you.

27   INT . COMMUNITY CENTER - CENTERVILLE - EVENING

A theater in the round. The audience is mostly pregnant females

and older residents. As the lights dim, eyes turn to the stage.

Speakers bring up Handel's O m b r a M a i Fu. Then a glowing mist

rises, condensing into a huge sphere, like a seed. Known as a

"holomorph", it reacts sonically, germinating into stems and

branches and blossoms, growing and evolving with the music. The

diaspora i s as spellbinding as it is pacifying. It is beautiful.

28   INT . FOYER - COMMUNITY CENTER - EVENING

The music from within is like a warm beckoning hand. The foyer is

slightly vaulted to accommodate a statue. On a bench at its

f o o t , Ester sits alone, waiting patiently. As Lincoln enters,

s h e rises to greet him, smiling. He seems more sullen than

usual.

LINCOLN

S o r r y I'm late.

ESTER

I t ' s okay. I was waiting to tell you

something anyway. Guess what?

Lincoln looks at her, unsettled by her flourishing smile.

ESTER

M y baby - I felt it move. And it's the

weirdest feeling too. I can't explain

it. It's like being more... more h e r e .

Lincoln returns a deadpan look. Ester's smile wavers a little.

30.

ESTER

I'm sorry. I'm all excited and we're

supposed to be finding peace of mind.

LINCOLN

I have to cancel, Ester.

His voice is expressionless. Ester shrugs, refreshing her smile.

ESTER

S o I'll see you at breakfast tomorrow?

LINCOLN

I don't think so.

Ester ' s smile falls. Her eyes, reaching, trying to understand.

ESTER

Did I do something wrong, Lincoln?

LINCOLN

No.

A small word but it comes heavily. Before Ester can ask another

question, Lincoln turns and leaves. His jaw, clenching with the

effort of self-containment. Ester watches him, not hurt, just a

little confused. We widen to encompass the height of the statue.

The likeness is idealized but unmistakably that of Dr. Sanger.

29   INT . PLEASURE CENTER - NIGHT

B l u e light. Lincoln walks up a long corridor, carrying a sealed

plastic bag. Along the walls, poster-sized screens like those in

the bar, display images of women, gyrating, licking their lips.

30   INT . PLEASURE CELL - NIGHT

The blue light sustains. To one side is a mirrored wall, known

as an "etherwall". It is currently pixellated t o display a grid

of women's faces, artificial consorts waiting to be selected.

Facing the etherwall i s a large aquarium-like tank, filled with

gelatinous blue liquid. This vessel is known as a "sense tank".

Lincoln sits at the rim, naked, wearing a full-head oxygen mask.

He couples it to a hose dangling from the ceiling. Then lowers

himself into the tank. On the inner facet, a touchlight k e y p a d

resolves. Lincoln taps some keys and the etherwall a c k n o w l e d g e s :

- - P L E A S U R E PARTNER SELECTED; PROGRAM COMMENCING...

Lincoln looks out at the etherwall. The faces blink off to leave

him staring at his reflection. Just one left, a pouting redhead,

who licks her lips in anticipation as the lights dim.

31.

A holographic mist now rises. First resolving a proxy of Lincoln,

naked, replicating his posture in the tank. Then the redhead is

conjured, her buxom nudity glimpsed through the swirling mist.

Lincoln proxy reaches out to stroke redhead proxy's breast. In

the tank, Lincoln's fingers caress only the gel, his fingertips

met by soft arcs of light - neurological charges, conducted by

the gel, creating the sense of touch. They are known as "impulse

arcs". Redhead proxy responds, dappling her lips across Lincoln

proxy's neck. In the tank, impulse arcs flicker across Lincoln's

throat, then down his chest, descending to more erogenous zones.

Lincoln stiffens and closes his eyes, yielding to the sensation.

The sensation engulfing him, Lincoln's brow starts to furrow. Not

with ecstasy. Something darker. His eyes open, his pupils fixed

in a black dilated stare. Resisting the artificiality, his face

forming a sneer, tightening until... he slams h i s palm into the

touchpad. The tank shakes. The proxies blink out. Lincoln stands

mirrored in the etherwall. His hand, pressed against the glass in

a posture of defiance. His reflection, warped and shuddering.

31   INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT

F r o m darkness grows a seed of light. Red light, pulsing to reveal

the shaft, lined by lode-poles, here in triangulated relay. The

polarity cradles a dark mass towards us. An elevator in descent.

32   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE

Merrick   is at his console, working late. Off a buzz, he taps a

button.   The door opens and an outsider enters - 40's, square set,

hollow,   remote eyes. His hair is damp and he wears post-decon

scrubs.   A USMC ring is visible on his finger. His name is SCHEER.

MERRICK

K a r l . . . Welcome back.

S c h e e r pauses, his face twitching. Then sneezes violently.

SCHEER

I forgot how much I hate the air here.

MERRICK

J u s t a histamine reflex. Your system's

readjusting to the sterile environment.

SCHEER

I t ' s the smell I hate. Empty.

MERRICK

Yes , well I cut short your leave for a

reason. I take it you've been briefed?

32.

SCHEER

( s i t s , sniffing)

O n e of our lab rats is missing.

W i t h a dour look, Merrick slots his etherboard i n t o a dock. A

proxy resolves over the console, quarter scale, spinning in 3D;

male, African American, bull neck. Data etches across thin air:

- - P R O D U C T ID: STARKWEATHER; FOUNDATION: II; GENERATION: DELTA;

- - I N T E G R A T I O N DATE: 01/27/84 // CONTAINMENT REF: 102, SECTOR 4

MERRICK

His name is Starkweather Two-Delta. He

dropped off the ether two days ago. At

first we thought it was a system error.

Then we found this in a garbage chute.

He opens a drawer and pulls out an ethercuff. He hands it to

Scheer who considers it remotely for a few seconds. Then-

SCHEER

D e l t a generation, huh?

MERRICK

That's right.

SCHEER

I t was a Delta the last time.

MERRICK

T h a t was entirely different. The

product suffered a head injury.

SCHEER

What happened to this one?

MERRICK

We don't know. He just disappeared.

SCHEER

N o t easy to disappear. Unless he

figured a way through the boundary.

MERRICK

He's a code two, Karl. A low functioner.

SCHEER

I f you ask me, it's a mistake giving

them any functions at all.

MERRICK

The y don't function mentally, they don't

function physically - you know that.

33.

SCHEER

The n perhaps if you're going to breed

lab rats, you should breed them tame.

His look, albeit from a distance, throws a stone. Merrick hardens-

MERRICK

I f you bothered to read the clone laws,

you'd realize we have no choice in the

matter. The virtual humanity statutes

accord them a set of freedoms. All we

can do is prescribe the limits. And

even those are subject to regulation.

Scope of knowledge, range of activity,

even their speech patterns. The law

requires that what is of human origin

be provided with human characteristics.

SCHEER

You mean, like fallibility?

Merrick pauses. He's not going to take the bait.

MERRICK

The ether shows no attempts on the

boundary. He's here, Karl. But for

some reason, your men seem unable to

find him. It's your job to contain the

products. I'd like you to do it, okay?

SCHEER

A little sensitive, aren't we?

MERRICK

J u s t after Starkweather went missing,

his sponsor placed an order. An order we

can't fill. Damn right I'm sensitive.

SCHEER

A l r i g h t . How much time do I have?

Merrick taps a button. A holoframe appears beside the proxy.

Even in two dimensions, the face is identical. Just a different

hairstyle and a gold earring. This is the face of The Sponsor.

MERRICK

J a m i l Starkweather . . . last week he

sustained a hepatic trauma resulting in

liver hemorrhage. In medical terms, we

have maybe a few weeks. In legal terms,

we're already o n borrowed time...

( a s Scheer rises to leave)

An d Karl?

34.

MERRICK (cont'd)

I don't want a godawful m e s s like the

l a s t time. Minimal damage. Understood?

33   INT . LINCOLN'S APARTMENT - PREDAWN

The horizon. The green mountains cast black by the predawn

glower. Lincoln sits rigidly hunched on his bed, still in

yesterday's clothes, sleepless. He is staring fixedly out of the

window, hungrily, as if inviting the outer darkness to come in.

His gaze lowers onto his jacket, slung across the bed. He digs

in the pocket. And pulls out the cigarette pack. For a moment he

considers it. Then slowly, purposefully, he opens it. He slips a

cigarette between his lips. And lights up. He leans back, taking

a slow drag. Exhaling, he watches the smoke rise. His gaze rests

on the etherscreen above, expectant. The cursor comes to life:

- - S C R E E N I N G . . . CONTAMINANT DETECTED: ADVISING SANITATION CTRL

R e f l e c t e d in the ceiling, Lincoln grins at his small victory.

34   INT . RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - SECTOR FOUR

Q u i e t , empty at this hour. Just the drum of footfalls as Lincoln

marches up the walkway, puffing his cigarette. He stops at the

ethergate, regarding it as if for the first time. Then he stubs

out his cigarette. And swipes his ethercuff o v e r the scanner.

35   INT . THE ETHER GRID

A blue dot blinks in space. We widen to establish its locus on a

tomograph. Now building the boxes, the quadrants, the sectors.

Revealing a vast, fully dimensional hologram of containment. It

spins in the vaulted chamber like a giant geometrical phantom.

36   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

O v e r l o o k i n g the ether, like a studio control booth. Known as

"Ethercon", it's also the title of the Censor at the console.

Scheer stands over him, now in a white censor uniform with black

chevrons on the sleeves, marking his seniority. He instructs-

SCHEER

R e v e r s e map. Crop to twelve hour

segments. Then put up a sub-grid.

- - S T A R K W E A T H E R TWO-DELTA: ETHER HISTORY; REVERSE MAPPING...

T o one side, a miniature of the ether grid resolves. It peppers

with a series of blue dots. Then a blue line stems from a point

of origin to start joining them. Scheer leans in, eyes honing,

watching the blue line retrace the last steps of his quarry.

35.

37   INT. NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - PREDAWN

The glass wall reprises the predawn glower. The plaza is empty

at this hour. But the service counters are staffed as breakfast

is being prepared. The clerk looks surprised to see Lincoln

arriving so early. He seems grim, latent, stiffly swiping his

ethercuff o v e r the scanner. She eyes the readout on her screen-

N U T R I T I O N CLERK

Lincoln Six-Echo... Options are dried

fruit, oatmeal or anything in bran.

LINCOLN

I want some bacon.

N U T R I T I O N CLERK

You heard the options.

LINCOLN

An d coffee. I want coffee.

The clerk sighs and taps her screen. Turning to the chutes, she

collects a foil covered bowl and a juice can and sets them on

Lincoln's tray. Lincoln glances down at it, then back up-

LINCOLN

This isn't what I asked for.

N U T R I T I O N CLERK

You want to get into it? Look, I just

work here, pal. I serve the meal and

make sure it goes down on your record.

Lincoln nods slowly. Then picks up the bowl. And flings i t across

the plaza. Then the juice can, trying to outdistance the bowl.

Finally, the tray, which rotors almost to the far side before

clattering into obscurity. Then he turns back to the clerk-

LINCOLN

P u t that on my fucking r e c o r d .

38   INT . SUBWAY PORTAL - SECTOR FOUR

The latticed wall of ethergates. The rising beat of footfalls as

Lincoln approaches. He swipes his ethercuff o v e r the scanner. The

gate slowly hisses open. Too slowly for Lincoln, who kicks it and

barges his way through, leaving the gate to shudder on its hinge.

39   INT . SUBWAY PLATFORM

The walkways, unmoving. The platform, deserted. The echoing beat

of footfalls as Lincoln marches up to the vending machine. He

swipes his ethercuff o v e r the scanner. A screen illuminates:

36.

--SUGAR QUOTA EXCEEDED; ACCESS DENIED

Lincoln glowers at the message. His jaw clenching, twitching with

anger. Erupting, he lashes out, punching t h e machine. He winces

as his knuckles crack. Then grabs the machine, trying to rip it

off the wall. Pulling, straining, sneering with effort, until-

He lets go with a defeated gasp. Then kicks the machine in final

affront. The machine resounds with a dull boom. For a moment, he

stands there, chest heaving. Then suddenly traps his breath...

The r e , in the fading boom, a noise. Faint, rhythmic. Becoming

discernible as THE SOUND OF A MAN SOBBING. Lincoln turns toward

the platform. Tracing the sound, he crosses to the safety fence.

LINCOLN

Hello?

His voice echoes to nothing. He leans over the fence and peers

up the tunnel. There. In the fog of darkness, a figure. A figure

paused, half-standing, like an animal on the brink of flight.

The figure seems to stare at him. Then pulls upright. Now moving

forward and into the light. His face is African American, bull-

n e c k e d , eyes wild and bloodshot. A stranger to Lincoln, we know

him as STARKWEATHER TWO-DELTA. His voice is quivering, unhinged-

STARKWEATHER

Please...

Lincoln stands, frozen by the sight of this dark, dishevelled

resident. As he climbs up onto the platform, we see his hands,

the fingertips grated and bloody. He lumbers towards Lincoln-

STARKWEATHER

P l e a s e , you have to help me...

He rushes forward, grabbing Lincoln, pulling him face-close-

STARKWEATHER

Y O U CAN'T LET THEM TAKE ME!

The stranger's eyes grow darkly, his pupils abysmal, black with

dilation. Lincoln fiercely shrugs off his grip, backing away...

LINCOLN

W h o are you? What's wrong with you?

The stranger's eyes bore into him, obsidian. Face contorting,

baring his teeth like a rabid dog. Suddenly he lunges a t Lincoln-

- B O O M - ramming him back into the vending machine - Lincoln is

stunned - suddenly a vice-like grip on his wrist swings him round-

- C R A C K - into the etherscreen banner, webbing at the impact...

37.

For a moment, all is a blur. Teetering, Lincoln props himself

against the wall. Then his focus resolves on the etherscreen and

his fractured reflection. He releases a deep, bewildered breath.

Then he notices his wrist. His ethercuff i s missing, his skin,

grazed red from abrasion. Confusion yielding to anger, he looks

for his assailant. But the platform is empty. His jaw clenches.

40   INT . SUBWAY PORTAL - SECTOR FOUR

T H E DRUM OF FOOTFALLS as Starkweather rushes up to the ethergate.

H a n d shaking, he swipes Lincoln's ethercuff o v e r the scanner. The

gate hisses open and he barrels through, suddenly spurred by --

LINCOLN BURSTING UP from the well of walkways, charging forward

like a bull. The gate now closing, Lincoln races for the gap,

barging his way through. And the gate snaps shut with a CLANG.

41   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

A N ALARM SOUNDS. The console flashes. Ethercon responds with a

flurry of keystrokes. Scheer rejoins him as he pulls up a sub-

g r i d . This one evolving past tomograph, mosaicing a n g l e s from

etherscreen, conjugating a 3D l i v e feed known as an "etherview"--

M A T C H CUT TO:

42   INT . NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - DAWN

S T A R K W E A T H E R BARRELING ACROSS THE PLAZA; glancing off tables,

sending chairs flying. Some residents, arriving for breakfast,

scatter at his onset. Shocked faces, looking back and forth as

Lincoln follows, in hot pursuit, vaulting the toppled furniture.

43   INT . ELEVATOR BANK - AN UPPER LEVEL

A SQUAD OF CENSORS CONVERGING; called suddenly to duty, looping

tri-keys r o u n d their necks, donning headsets, priming stopguns.

S c h e e r leads them into the elevator, coolly relaying his orders-

SCHEER

S u b j e c t headed into North Quadrant. Two-

m a n teams - we block him and force him

to ground. If you have a shot, hook him

but keep it above the belt. Management

doesn't want us to "damage the product".

The Censors roll their eyes knowingly. Scheer taps his headset.

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

E t h e r c o n ? Sector Four North; code an

exclusion for tri-key a c c e s s . Then

give me a full quadrant lockdown.

38.

44   INT. RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - SECTOR FOUR

A VERTICAL ONTO A RESIDENTIAL BLOCK: the grid of crosswalks, the

tiers of frosted facades; quiet, the residents still dormant--

A DRUM OF FOOTFALLS: Then a figure breaking frame, racing up the

walkway of an upper floor; then another figure, in hot pursuit --

T H E LOCKDOWN I N I T I A T E S : the lights shifting spectrum from white

to ultraviolet, bathing the quadrant in a lambent purple haze--

S T A R K W E A T H E R : his eyes bulging with panic as he races up the

walkway, straining for an ethergate a t the far end of the floor--

LINCOLN : his eyes charged with adrenaline, straining to close

ground on his assailant; oblivious to the building noise of--

T H E LOCKDOWN: locks hissing, lights flashing, ripping up the row

of frosted facades; sweeping past Lincoln and onward toward--

S T A R K W E A T H E R : the ripple of hissing locks rushing up on him, he

pours on the pace, sneering with effort as he tries to outrace--

T H E LOCKDOWN: the ripple spearing ahead of him to the end of the

floor; now banking across the ethergate a n d sealing the exit.

S T A R K W E A T H E R : stalled by the realization he's trapped; he spins

round, looking for another avenue of escape only to find--

LINCOLN: blindsiding h i s assailant with a headlong tackle; both

men toppling over, hitting the floor with a bone-jarring thud--

S T A R K W E A T H E R : quick to recover, breaking lose of entanglement;

now struggling to his feet, stumbling onward up the walkway--

LINCOLN : gets up to resume pursuit, then pauses, spotting his

ethercuff, discarded on the ground. He looks up in confusion at--

S T A R K W E A T H E R : a short distance ahead, climbing over the walkway

rail; launching himself off, into a seemingly suicidal plummet--

LINCOLN : leaning over the rail, seeing his assailant land safely

on a crosswalk beneath, resuming his flight on the lower floor as-

- B O O M - A GUNBLAST r i p s the air. A KEENING SOUND builds to a wail-

- T H U D - LINCOLN JOLTS as something hits his shoulder, catching him

off-balance, a stab of pain keeling him onto the rail -CLANG -

LINCOLN SLUMPS INTO FG - TWO CENSORS converging like white ghosts

from the purple haze - one reprimanding his recalcitrant cohort-

39.

CENSOR

You asshole! You hooked the wrong one!

He crouches to examine Lincoln. Blood is blossoming from a wound

on his shoulder, jutting from which is a projectile. The censor

presses its base and it snaps loose of its unintended target.

N o w we see the projectile more clearly. A fat metal pellet, snub-

n o s e d , finned at the tail by four metal teeth. On impact, the

nose recesses to release a springload a n d the teeth snap forward

to bite into the target. This device is known as a "hookhead".

CENSOR

J u s t a flesh wound. `Hit his head

pretty hard. Possible concussion.

( i n s p e c t i n g Lincoln's pupils)

T h i n k you can walk, buddy?

Lincoln nods slightly. The censor unloops a tri-key f r o m his neck-

CENSOR

You see this? It'll get you past the

lockdown. You're to report to The

Medical Center. You understand?

O f f Lincoln's blank stare, the censor presses the tri-key i n t o

his palm. Then departs. Lincoln stays where he sits, still dazed

from the concussion. Absently he watches the censors race off up

the walkway, dissolving back into the purple haze as we-

C U T TO:

45   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

S T A R K W E A T H E R RUNNING. Meeting white uniforms at every turn, zig-

z a g g i n g o v e r crosswalks, down ramps. The rat in the maze, dumb to

its inevitable destination. Widening, we see we are watching the

action on etherview, racking and dollying like a deific e y e .

E T H E R C O N (INTO HEADSET)

E a s t side team hold position. Subject

headed for the second floor crossramp.

46   INT . GROUND FLOOR - RESIDENTIAL BLOCK

C l o a k e d in shadow, Scheer listens to the play-by-play on headset.

With a tap, he changes the channel, whispering to his squad-

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

G i v e him some space. I have him.

A N O T H E R ANGLE: Starkweather hits the deck running, sprinting up

the avenue. In BG, Scheer steps forth, stopgun l e v e l l e d , aiming--

40.

-BOOM- The flash of the muzzle, the shrill wail of the hookhead.

- T H U D - Starkweather jolts as the shot hits him square in the

back, arching as the hookhead b i t e s ; but he keeps on running-

- B O O M - B O O M - B O O M - Scheer unleashes his ordnance, filling the air.

- T H U D - T H U D - T H U D - Starkweather jolts from one, two, three more

hits; hookheads b i t i n g , spraying blood; but he keeps on running.

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

A l l clear. Flood the area.

A N O T H E R ANGLE; Floor level, as between the tiles, tiny red lights

start blinking, rippling forward in a wave. Known as "lode-pins"

their small magnetic pulses accumulate into a low level stream.

The hookheads c l a w e d in Starkweather's back also start blinking

red. The invisible stream flowing beneath his feet, Starkweather

feels its force. The duelling polarities stealing his traction.

His run reducing to a slipsliding s t a g g e r . Then his feet leave

the ground. He flails for a handhold. But there's nothing. The

force lifts him a foot clear off the ground before balancing out

to dangle him in mid-air, squirming about like a fish on a hook.

A N O T H E R ANGLE; Scheer advances to reel in his catch. The stream

bows before him, red lights blinking out. Until all that remains

is the section where Starkweather hangs suspended. Scheer stops

at its limit, looking up at him like some curious zoo exhibit.

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

H o o d him, cuff him, patch the bleed.

Then let's get him up to Level Three.

A N O T H E R ANGLE: looking down from high above as the Censors move

in on Starkweather. Scheer now walking away, tapping his headset-

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

E t h e r c o n ? Send word to dispatch.

Starkweather Two-Delta is secured.

R E V E R S E ANGLE: Lincoln in CU, looking down. He has seen and heard

all that has just passed. In his eyes, we see his daze clearing,

consciousness coalescing, deepening. His pupils dilating into a

deep and uncanny stare. What can only be described as a dawning.

47   INT . NUTRITION PLAZA - SECTOR FOUR - LATER

N o w full but unusually quiet. Residents sit in whispered, anxious

discourse. The news of the incident is spreading. Off a series of

chimes, eyes turn to the glass wall, now pixellating i n t o an

outsider's face - calm, official. THE COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER begins-

41.

COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER

Good morning - this is a community

bulletin... Following an incident in

Sector Four earlier this morning, The

Department of Sanitation is issuing an

all-sector contamination warning...

TRACKING the rapt concern of the residents, Ester among them.

COMMUNITY ANNOUNCER

The incident involved a resident found

to be infected with a pathogen. While

the risk is assessed, residents are

advised to be aware of the symptoms.

Should you experience aberrant levels

of anxiety or witness it in others,

immediately contact The Medical Center.

48   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE

The proxy of Starkweather spins over the desk. Merrick regards

i t with a frown. Scheer sits turning the ethercuff i n his fingers

with a demeanor of cool curiosity. Underneath, he's rattled.

SCHEER

You want to tell me what's going on?

MERRICK

There's nothing going on, Karl.

SCHEER

I'm jaded. Not stupid.

MERRICK

What's your point?

SCHEER

I checked up. In the past year, three

products have destabilized. All of them

Deltas... and there's nothing going on?

MERRICK

You're jumping to conclusions.

SCHEER

Once I can overlook. Twice I can call

coincidence. Three times I start giving

a shit. Because if these products are

defective...

MERRICK

Q u a l i t y control is not your concern.

42.

SCHEER

S o it is a quality control issue?

MERRICK

That's not what I said.

SCHEER

He was in the subway tunnels for two

days. In the dark, no food, no water.

His fingers were scraped to the bone.

He was trying to dig his way out. Now

you try to explain to me why that is.

His look says he smells a rat. Merrick weighs him a moment. Then

sighs, a little depleted. He gets up and crosses to the glass

wall. Looks down on the avenue, at the agnates m i l l i n g beneath.

MERRICK

It's not an exact science - biogenesis.

There's a degree of trial and error. If

the agnate doesn't come together on the

first pass, we have to abort and start

over. It's like breaking inertia. The

bioreactor, the growth medium - we just

keep upping the levels till we achieve

integration. At which stage the agnate

is deemed physically stable. We rely on

foundation to provide mental stability -

matching the templates to their capacity

but walling it in with parameters.

( b e a t , considers the proxy)

When signs of instability started to

show up, it pointed to foundation. A

hole in the wall, an oversight. But it

was only happening in the later generat-

ions . Which pointed back to biogenesis.

SCHEER

So there was a production defect.

MERRICK

Actually the opposite. We found out in

the later generations, the levels were

so high that when we broke inertia, the

process kept going. Over-integrating.

Specifically the neural system. It

produced a condition called synesthesia.

SCHEER

Synesthesia...

43.

MERRICK

A fusion of the senses, creating a

component awareness. Sixth sense,

s e c o n d sight, whatever you want to call

it. Its emergence seems to be arbitrary.

But it gives them experiences beyond

their functional parameters. And

ultimately... it destabilizes them.

However, if we catch it early enough we

can control it with re-conditioning.

Scheer absorbs this with a slow grin. Merrick looks puzzled.

MERRICK

You find this amusing?

SCHEER

Poetic.

MERRICK

Poetic?

SCHEER

This "agnate" took off just before his

sponsor placed an order. Maybe he got

the sense his days were numbered...

Merrick ' s composure cracks a little. He hadn't thought of this.

MERRICK

This stays between you and me, Karl. I

trust I can rely on your cooperation?

SCHEER

Don't you mean my complicity?

MERRICK

(hardening again)

Remind me, why is it you were

discharged from the military?

SCHEER

What's your point?

MERRICK

Learn to be a team player, Karl. Or

you'll find yourself out of another

job.

Scheer rises, discarding the ethercuff onto Merrick's desk.

SCHEER

Nobody else would take it.

44.

49   INT. EXTRACTOR SHAFT

The deep steady thrum of the extractor fans. We are TIGHT ON the

frame of an airlock. Hissing, it indents and opens. Lincoln steps

through, eyes black and uncanny. The tri-key g l i n t i n g , dangling

from his fingers. Scanning around, he fixes on a section of wall.

He wipes off some soot. Legible beneath is a number. Twenty. He

assimilates this. Then turns his gaze up the extractor shaft.

50   INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT

Looking up an elevator shaft. The red pulse of the lode-poles,

rippling downward as an elevator descends from the surface.

51   INT . OUTER THRESHOLD - LEVEL THREE

A tiled chamber. Draped off cubicles. The elevator doors slide

open. An outsider emerges, dressed in a flightsuit, emblazoned

"Medical Courier". He announces himself, seemingly to no one-

T H E COURIER

Clearance code: NG-230-2DS.

V O I C E ON SPEAKER

New Gaza Healthcare. Okay, you're

clear. Go ahead and get undressed.

52   INT . DECONTAMINATION CHAMBER

The pressure door hisses, heaving open. The courier steps inside,

naked, covering his genitals, some goggles slung around his neck.

He takes position on two marked footpads and puts on the goggles-

T H E COURIER

I tell you, I hate this fucking r u n . I

always leave this place with sunburn.

V O I C E ON SPEAKER

Try full-course decontamination. It's

even more fun. Especially the colonics.

The lights blink out. A red glow rises. Twin planes of light

scrape across the courier, infra-red, searing his epidermis.

53   INT . INNER THRESHOLD - LEVEL THREE

A chamber like the first. The inner pressure door hisses open.

The courier emerges, dripping wet from a decon s h o w e r . He goes

to a cubicle, grabbing a towel and dries himself off. Laid out

within are some scrubs. Beside them is A STEEL COOLER, inset

with a thermostat and embossed with the crosshatch insignia.

45.

54   INT. CORRIDOR - LEVEL THREE

The courier strolls up the corridor, now dressed in the scrubs

and carrying the cooler. He turns a corner and his footsteps

gradually fade out. A flat, sterile silence falls in his wake.

A metal squeal. A ventilation grid levers down from the ceiling.

A pause. Then a pair of feet drop through, legs, torso. Dropping

to the floor, Lincoln stands revealed. Sweaty, smeared black

with dust. For a moment he looks around to get his bearings.

Suddenly he freezes, hearing-

A VOICE (O.S.)

C h e c k in at the nurse's station. Up

the corridor, left, then first right.

The footsteps are now coming back. Lincoln spins round. He finds

a door. A lock panel. A moment of panic. Then he fumbles the tri-

k e y f r o m his pocket, hurriedly slotting it into the lock panel.

55   INT . THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR - SECONDS LATER

Lincoln waits, ear to the door, listening as the footsteps pass

and fade out of earshot. Lincoln releases his breath in relief,

calming a little, then frowning as he registers another sound.

Very faint, rhythmic. He turns and looks around. The room is in

partial shadow. To one side is a row of seats, to the other, a

row of windows, covered by blinds, light creasing through. The

sound repeats. Muffled. But now unmistakably THE CRY OF A BABY.

56   INT . HARVEST ROOM

A grid of bio-readouts, each square alive with graphs and digits.

The familiar baseline of a cardiograph. A lever-arm mounted with

an IV r e s e r v o i r , dangling tubes and wires onto the OR table.

We see A DOCTOR and A MIDWIFE, in whose arms A NEWBORN BABY

squirms and bawls. Lying on the table, we see THE MOTHER, her

feet up in stirrups, deeply flushed and puffing from exertion.

Marked by her crosshatch as an agnate, she has just given birth-

THE AGNATE MOTHER

May I hold her?

THE DOCTOR

We have to run a few tests on her first.

In the meantime, I'm going to give you

something to help you relax, okay?

Off his smile, the agnate mother nods, anxiously watching the

midwife wrap her baby in blanket. The doctor taps a button and

watches the IV reservoir misting with a pale colored fluid.

46.

The cardiograph marks the drop as the fast-acting sedative takes

effect. The agnate mother watches drowsily as the midwife takes

her baby from the room. Then the cry of the newborn is shut out.

J u s t the cardiograph now, the beeps evening out, the scart o f

peaks shallowing a s the agnate mother falls asleep. The doctor

taps a button. On the grid, the face of a DESK NURSE appears.

THE DOCTOR

I'm incubating the baby for 24 hours

prior to transport. But go ahead and

contact the sponsor. Tell her she has

a beautiful baby girl.

The nurse nods. The grid square goes blank. A pause. Then the

doctor taps another button. Text appears. Reading it, he cites-

THE DOCTOR

Let the record show the sponsor has

signed Clause 22 of The Basic Sponsor-

s h i p Agreement. Initiate compliance.

A light starts blinking. The doctor walks stiffly out of the

room. The door hisses closed. The agnate mother is left alone.

Sleeping peacefully, blind to the fluid now seeping into her IV.

D e a f to the slowing beep of the cardiograph. The peaks of the

baseline falling. Spacing, fading, slowing, slowing, until...

The cardiograph flatlines. An d a sepulchral stillness falls. Our

angle widens with the growing emptiness. The lifelessness.

57   INT . OBSERVATION ROOM

Lincoln looks down from above, eyes frozen in the slatted light.

His fingers are trembling, rattling the blinds against the glass.

58   INT . CORRIDOR

Lincoln tumbles out of the door. He can't breathe, can't think,

his mind is in overload. He stumbles around like a wounded

animal. His focus suddenly and searingly r e t u r n s as he hears-

DESK NURSE (O.S.)

Starkweather ? Like the football player?

59   INT . NURSES STATION - LEVEL THREE - CONTINUOUS

A rotunda spoked by corridors. A console at its hub, manned by

the desk nurse we saw earlier. The courier stands over her-

THE COURIER

That's right. Starkweather.

47.

DESK NURSE

Still showing in surgery. Sorry.

THE COURIER

Honey, I got a bird on the pad and a

storm moving in. How long's it gonna be?

60   INT . ANOTHER OPERATING ROOM

Another grid of readouts. Another cardiograph beeps. A spotlamp

illuminates the OR table and STARKWEATHER TWO-DELTA - his face,

slack with anesthesis, eyes rolling a little beneath the lids.

The rest of him under a sheet, cut out over the belly, the flesh

slit and parted by a clamp, framing a window into his innards.

Standing over him, mid-operation, A SURGEON and SURGICAL TECH.

Interrupted by a chime, the surgeon looks up at a screen, where

a panel flashes: "PAGING". He cradles his bloody gloves and

elbows a button. The face of the desk nurse resolves on screen-

DESK NURSE (ON SCREEN)

The courier's here for pickup.

THE SURGEON

Well he's going to have to wait a while.

It took forever to put this one under.

SURGICAL TECH (O.S.)

Doctor...

DESK NURSE (ON SCREEN)

He's asking for an ETA. Said something

about some kind of storm moving in.

THE SURGEON

For Christ's sake, is that my fault?

Just find a way to stall him, okay?

S U R G I C A L TECH (O.S.)

Doctor.

SURGEON

What is it?

SURGICAL TECH

Subject's heart rate is spiking.

SURGEON

Not again. Boost the anaesthetic lev...

Suddenly he's sprayed with blood a s the clamp springs loose from

the stomach, clattering to the floor. He's frozen by shock as...

48.

Starkweather sits bolts upright. Dazed, he looks at the surgeon,

the tech, then down at his wide-open stomach. Instinctively, he

clutches it. Then, his mind assimilating the horror, he SCREAMS.

Now launching off the operating table, the lever-arm swinging

out, blindsiding t h e tech - tubes and wires snapping loose -

instruments flying - Starkweather lunges for the doorway - the

surgeon steps up to block him - only to be hurled aside...

61   INT . CORRIDOR - LEVEL THREE

THE BLARE OF AN ALARM. Starkweather, clumping down the corridor,

clutching his open stomach, blood streaming down his legs. He's

delirious, running nowhere, anywhere, running blind. Reaching the

end of the corridor, he stops suddenly, seeing WHITE UNIFORMS.

He doubles back up the corridor. Kicking at doors with bare feet,

frantic for any means of escape. He spots a ventilator grid,

slightly open. He jumps, reaching for it. Once, twice, then his

feet slip from under him. He hits the floor with a damp splat.

TWO CENSORS turn the corner, ready for action. But there is

Starkweather, face-down in a starburst o f his own blood.

CENSOR (INTO HEADSET)

Yeah, no sweat, subject is secured.

62   INT . DUCTING - MINUTES LATER

POVCEILING VENTILATOR GRID. Looking down through the slits onto

Starkweather directly beneath. He now has a loose white hood over

his head. His wrists and ankles are bound by plastic cuffs. A

loop of intestine plumps out from his belly. His weight is such

that the Censors have to drag him away, leaving a bloodsmear o n

the floor. His guttural whimpers are the only sign of life.

CLOSEUP: Lincoln's face in part shadow, looking down. The gleam

of his eyes as Starkweather disappears from view. Listening now,

to those feeble whimpers, growing fainter, ever fainter until

they disappear from earshot. Silence again. Emptiness. All that

remains of Starkweather is a wending bloodsmear o n the floor.

SLOW FADE TO BLACK.

63   INT . BEDROOM - DAWN

The horizon. The green mountains in different aspect, framed by

a different window. The bedroom is like Lincoln's but with a few

feminine touches. Ester, in her papery pajamas, sits brushing

her hair. With a chime, etherscreen scales over her reflection:

- - E T H E R C A L L P E N D I N G ; ACCEPT OR SEND TO MESSAGE BANK?--

49.

ESTER

Accept.

The etherscreen resolves Lincoln's face, dishevelled, urgent-

LINCOLN (ON ETHERSCREEN)

Ester . . . I have to talk to you.

ESTER

Lincoln ? Are you okay? I was worried.

LINCOLN (ON ETHERSCREEN)

What are you talking about?

ESTER

The contamination warning. Somebody

said you'd been exposed.

Lincoln pauses to process this. Hunted, more cautious now-

LINCOLN (ON ETHERSCREEN)

I want you to meet me as soon as you

can. But you can't tell anyone.

ESTER

Is it true? Were you contaminated?

LINCOLN (ON ETHERSCREEN)

You know where to come.

His face blinks out. Ester is left frowning at her reflection.

64   INT . BEDROOM - LINCOLN'S APARTMENT - DAY

Lincoln stares at his own mirror image. His eyes, fraught with

revelation. His clothes, begrimed with dirt and blood. He rests

his head against the etherscreen panel, shuddering, pressing his

eyes tightly closed. As if he could ever forget what he's seen.

65   INT . CENTERVILLE - DAY

The routine flow of residents up the avenue. Lincoln walks, head

bowed, trying to look inconspicuous. Showered, white shirt and

blue slacks under his shearling, he looks a little too scrubbed,

too clean. He spots a familiar figure up ahead. He catches up.

LINCOLN

Jonesy. . .

J o n e s lets him fall into step with a look of mild curiosity-

50.

JONES

Hey, champ. Are you alright? I heard

there was a contamination scare.

LINCOLN

I saw what happened to him.

JONES

What are you talking about?

LINCOLN

Starkweather . . . What they did to him.

Jones huffs, dismissively. Lincoln grabs his shoulder, ardent-

LINCOLN

They cut him open, Jonesy. The y took

him upstairs and they cut him open.

Jones holds his gaze a moment, then shrugs off his grip.

JONES

You caught that fucking p a t h o g e n ,

didn't you? You're contaminated.

LINCOLN

J o n e s y , listen to me...

But Jones just backs away. Lincoln makes to follow. Then stops

dead in his tracks. Across the avenue, TWO CENSORS are on patrol

and his best friend is now heading towards them. With a barren,

torn grimace, Lincoln turns away and melts back into the crowd.

66   INT . COMMUNITY CENTER - CENTERVILLE - LATER

R i n g s of empty seats round the empty stage. Ester enters warily,

walking up the aisle. Lincoln waits in the shadows. He checks to

see she hasn't been followed. Then steps forward. Ester recoils-

ESTER

Please . . . don't come any closer. I

don't want to get contaminated.

LINCOLN

Ester, I'm not contaminated.

ESTER

But they said...

LINCOLN

I'm not contaminated!

51.

His shout echoes through the empty auditorium. Ester looks at

him, alarmed by his vehemence. Lincoln calms himself a little-

LINCOLN

Contaminants, pathogens... it's just

what they tell us to keep us inside.

ESTER

What do you mean?

LINCOLN

I saw it. Why they keep us here. To

use us. To take things from us.

ESTER

You're not making sense.

LINCOLN

Your baby... they're going to take

your baby away... you understand?

ESTER

M y baby? Why would they do that?

LINCOLN

I don't know! But I saw it!

ESTER

You're scaring me, Lincoln...

I want to go back now.

LINCOLN

You can't go back! Don't you get it?

A VOICE (O.S.)

N o b o d y move! Stay right where you are!

A CENSOR steps through, stopgun l e v e l l e d . Ester freezes. Lincoln

hovers, mind racing. The censor moves in, tightening aim on him.

Ester looks on anxiously as he approaches Lincoln. Lincoln now

sees the censor pulling out some plastic cuffs. The same cuffs

used on Starkweather, promising the same fate... TRIGGERING HIM--

LINCOLN LUNGES AT THE CENSOR - ramming him - toppling him across

the seats - knocking the stopgun f r o m his grasp - recoiling as--

THE CENSOR RETALIATES - driving a knee into his groin, doubling

him over - then a knee to his head - THUDDING INTO HIS SKULL-

ESTER

Don't hurt him!

52.

ESTER RUNS UP grabbing at the white uniform, trying to restrain

him - the censor swats her blindly - hitting her in the stomach--

LINCOLN SPINS ROUND at the sound of Ester's yelp - only to be

roundhoused b y the censor - the blow sending him to the floor--

Ester DOUBLED OVER - wincing at the pain - clutching her belly

instinctively, protectively - an ominous scowl knotting her face-

THE CENSOR PUNISHING LINCOLN - kicking him down the aisle - then

suddenly hearing a noise from behind - turning to face it as --

- B O O M - A GUNBLAST R I P S THE AIR. The brief wail of a hookhead.

- T H U D - THE CENSOR RECOILING - lurching as the hookhead b i t e s -

starting to gag - blood jetting from his neck - a hookhead

c l a w e d into his jugular - gurgling, collapsing to the floor--

Ester STANDING FROZEN - holding the stopgun - seeing Lincoln now

getting up - she drops the stopgun l i k e it's on fire, aghast-

ESTER

Lincoln?

L i k e she's asking him what she did... Silence - the rasp of the

censor, blood foaming - another sound - FOOTFALLS. Lincoln goes

to the door - an IMMINENT MASS OF WHITE UNIFORMS. He grabs Ester-

LINCOLN

RUN!!!

67   INT . FOYER - THE COMMUNITY CENTER

CENSORS BURSTING IN - led by Scheer, pushing through into the

main hall - the statue of Dr. Sanger looking serenely down--

68   INT . MAINTENANCE CORRIDOR - BEHIND THE COMMUNITY CENTER

A HISS OF DEPRESSURIZATION - a pressure door swings open - Lincoln

and Ester tumbling through - running up the maintenance corridor--

69   INT . COMMUNITY CENTER - MOMENTS LATER

CENSORS FANNING OUT - sweeping the hall, stopguns r e a d y - Scheer

finds the fallen Censor - crouches to examine him, then-

SCHEER

Somebody get someone down here!

A Censor splits off to join him, tapping his headset - Scheer

rises again - in his eyes, detachment yields to cold intensity--

53.

70   INT. VARIOUS CORRIDORS - CONTAINMENT INFRASTRUCTURE

THE CENSORS: flooding through into the maintenance corridor, in

their white uniforms, they seem like a swarm of antibodies--

LINCOLN AND ESTER: deeper in, at another pressure door, fumbling

the trikey i n t o the lock. A tense second. The lock hisses open--

SCHEER : pushes through the opening gap of another pressure door,

taking the lead, his Censors surging up in his wake --

LINCOLN AND ESTER: meeting an intersection, veering at random,

running blind, running deeper into the faceless labyrinth--

SCHEER : catching up, hitting the intersection, pausing to split

his squad in each direction - white uniforms dispersing--

LINCOLN AND ESTER: reaching another pressure door. Footsteps

audible. Lincoln jams the tri-key i n t o the lock. And waits. The

seconds pass. But the door doesn't open. Lincoln looks around

for another exit. Ester looks at him in mounting panic then--

THE PRESSURE DOOR OPENS: not onto a corridor but an elevator

car. Pulling Ester inside, Lincoln finds an array of buttons.

His fingers hovers, uncertain which to press. So he punches all

of them, stabbing madly, trying to prompt the door to close.

SCHEER : turns a corner, seeing his quarry at the far end of the

corridor, he gathers pace. The elevator is closing but he doesn't

break stride. He deftly taps his headset, opening a channel to--

SCHEER (ON HEADSET)

Ethercon! The elevator - override it!

Do you read me? Bring it back down!

71   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

Ethercon is working the console keys like a madman. His gaze

flitting to a subgrid o f the complex, spinning the angles,

navigating the mesh of lines. His voice comes apologetically-

ETHERCON (INTO HEADSET)

You're off the grid, sir. Give me a

second. Can you tell me where you are?

He recoils at the blaring volume of the response.

72   INT . CORRIDOR - OUTSIDE THE ELEVATOR

Scheer stands with his Censors, poised, watching the panel chart

the elevator's descent. A light flashes and the doors open. They

level their stopguns o n . . . nothing. The elevator is empty.

54.

SCHEER (INTO HEADSET)

Foundation Levels - all of them. Lock

them down. Access only on my command.

73   INT . FOUNDATION LEVEL

A dead acoustic. A corridor paved with sound proofing panels. It

ends at a pressure door, where Lincoln and Ester now arrive.

Lincoln looks back to the elevator at the other end. No going

back. He slots the tri-key into the lock. The door hisses open.

74   INT . FOUNDATION CHAMBERS

Amber light. The sound of slow bubbling. Lincoln and Ester pause

to adjust to the gloom. They are in a hall of windows. Ester is

the first to venture forth, as if drawn, to the nearest window.

Behind the glass is a foundation tank. Bubbling with viscous

fluid, laced with various tubes pulsing matter to and fro. The

tubes connect to a form. A human form, an adult form but curled

foetally. I t is known as a "nascent". In this tank is a female

nascent, shifting slightly, causing Ester to gasp. The nascent

registers the noise, turning its head. Its eyelids are closed but

its eyeballs move, questioning. A slight furrow appears on its

crosshatched brow. Ester recoils in sudden horror, perhaps

remembering on some deep level that this is where she came from.

LINCOLN

Ester ! Come on!

Spurred to action, Ester follows Lincoln onward up the hall.

Still conscious of movement all around, of nascents stirring at

the sound of their footfalls like the ripples of a nightmare.

75   INT . FOUNDATION CHAMBER

A STOPGUN n o s e s through the door. Followed by Scheer moving in

silence, honed. How much time has passed is unclear. He signals

his censors to split off. Tracking Scheer's advance, we INTERCUT:

ANOTHER FOUNDATION CHAMBER: Censors making their sweep. Strobes

of light from an armature mechanism moving up the row of tanks.

It angles to project a grid across each nascent's face, then

fires a short laser burst, searing a crosshatch into the brow.

ANOTHER FOUNDATION CHAMBER: another contingent moves up another

row of foundation tanks. The nascents within have cables plugged

into their ears, filaments pulsing. The nascents a r e in a posture

of rigor, sinews straining as they accept the data impression.

RETURNING TO SCHEER as he reaches the end of the first chamber.

No further access, just a continuing wrap of foundation tanks.

He pauses, confused for a second. One of the censors comes up-

55.

CENSOR

Nothing , sir. No sign.

SCHEER

They can't have got past this level.

Scheer peels off his headset, giving full leash to his senses,

straining to concentrate. Seconds of pent silence. Then he hears

a faint humming. His gaze slowly drifts up to a ventilator grid.

76   INT . / EXT . THE FUNNEL - NIGHT

A POV LOOKING UP. The funnel mouth framing a vista of the world

outside. A hostile vista of black sky, maelstroms of sand. The

sound of blasting air, suborned to the giant howl of a DUSTSTORM.

A HAND. Reaching over the funnel lip as Lincoln pulls himself up

with a mighty effort. Blinking, blinded by the sand, he swings

astride the lip. Then he reaches down to pull Ester up. Ester

gains the lip and likewise swings astride, coughing, blinking.

T H E DUSTY EARTH as Lincoln leaps down to meet it. We track up as

he helps Ester down from the funnel. Her feet meeting the earth,

we are now in CU o n their faces. Gaping and blinking at the

prospect of the world outside. A world of darkness and storm.

SUDDEN BLINDING LIGHT as halogens explode the darkness. Lincoln

shields his eyes, scanning for their source. He spots a large

cubic building, banks of spotlights on the roof. He pulls Ester

away. Away from the lights and towards the safety of darkness.

77   INT . EXTRACTOR SHAFT

T H E THRUM OF EXTRACTOR FANS. Scheer pacing on a catwalk. White

uniforms above and below, flashlights roving, sliced by the

blades of the extractor fans. From somewhere, comes a shout-

C E N S O R (O.S.)

Sir ! We got em! Motion sensors just

picked them up at the surface!

78   EXT . FRONT OF THE INSTITUTE - NIGHT

ANOTHER BURST OF HALOGENS. More spotlights engage, their blaze

flooding across the foreview, catching two figures; Lincoln and

Ester, running, now, veering sharply away from the light. Now

disappearing from sight, dropping into the trench of the lodeway.

79   INT . MAINTENANCE ELEVATOR - CONTAINMENT

THE RISING HUM OF THE LODE-POLES. The elevator crammed with

censors. Scheer at the front, staring ahead. He looks very

focused, bitterly so. The look of a man outwitted by lab rats.

56.

80   EXT. THE LODEWAY - NIGHT

THE DARKNESS OF THE TRENCH. Lincoln and Ester running along the

lode-way, stumbling over the buffers. Above them, the dust

flails in lashing tongues, starkly depicted by the halogens.

81   EXT . PROCESSING PLANT - NIGHT

WHITE UNIFORMS IN THE NIGHT - censors spill forth into the

halogen light, splitting in all directions. Scheer suddenly

notices the corona of light from the front of the complex. He

barks something inaudible to his men, launching into a run.

82   EXT . THE GATEWAY - NIGHT

THE GATEWAY LOOMING ABOVE. Beneath, Lincoln and Ester, on their

knees, clawing at the dust. Like burrowing animals, trying to

widen the gap between the foot of the gate and the lodeway.

83   EXT . FRONT OF THE INSTITUTE - NIGHT

A LONE WHITE UNIFORM. As Scheer reaches the forecourt, stopping

to scan the spotlit view, the veils of the duststorm. His face

tightening with urgency. Suddenly he taps his headset, barking-

S C H E E R (INTO HEADSET)

The lodeway! Flood it! Light it up!

84   EXT . THE GATEWAY - NIGHT

THE RISING HUM OF THE LODE-POLES barely audible over the storm.

Lincoln and Ester, washed by pulsing red light. Ester recoiling,

her arm flinging back from the pull. Lincoln grabbing her, his

own arm straining now. The polarity tugging their ethercuffs.

85   EXT . THE LODEWAY - NIGHT

THE RED WASH OF LIGHT from the lodeway as Scheer races up the

edge, eyes trawling the trench for his quarry. His pace now

suddenly dropping, slowing to a halt. He doubles over, catching

his breath. More white uniforms now appear from the dust as the

Censors, unable to match his pace, finally catch up. The first

reaching him, Scheer pulls upright, bellowing over the wind-

SCHEER

G e t me a bird!

CENSOR

A bird?! In this storm?!

SCHEER

The y got out! They got past the gate!

57.

Scheer spins on his heel back towards The Institute. The Censor

lingers, confused. Then he fixes on the lodeway. Floating past

in the red wash are the luminous blue seams of two ethercuffs.

86   EXT . THE DESERT - NIGHT

The perimeter wall silhouetted in the middle-distance. Lincoln

and Ester scramble through the scrub, blinded by dust, driven by

momentum. As Ester starts lagging behind, Lincoln grabs her arm-

LINCOLN

Ester ! We have to keep going!

But Ester resists him, breaking loose from his grasp. Lincoln

looks at her, uncomprehending. Until he sees her expression, the

harrowed stare in her eyes, the labored heaving of her chest.

LINCOLN

Ester?

Ester staggers back, losing balance, reeling as if spun by the

storm. Her eyes widening, senses flooding. The howling wind, the

swirling dustclouds, the pendent gulf of black sky. Her reel

returning her to face Lincoln, Ester opens her mouth to speak.

But all that comes is A SCREAM. A scream from deep within, shrill

and hysterical, the only articulation she can find. Lincoln grabs

her and covers her mouth. Fighting to stifle her, rocking to her

convulsions. But Ester keeps screaming. A scream of everything.

87   INT . BEDROOM - SOMEWHERE - LATE NIGHT

All is still. Just a muted shudder of wind on glass. The room is

in shadow. All we see is a canopied bed where a figure,

obscured, lies sleeping. The still is disrupted by a chime. The

figure stirs, fumbling at the nightstand. A holoframe resolves,

the light revealing Dr. Sanger, rumpled by sleep. He peers into

the holoframe to find the face of Merrick, gaunt with concern-

Merrick (ON HOLOFRAME)

He n r y . . . There's been a breach.

H A R D CUT TO BLACK.

SLOW FADE UP:

88   EXT . THE RED ROCKS - DAWN

A horizon. A brim of dawn over the red rocks. The view is framed

by the mouth of a cave. Lincoln sleeps within, slumped against

the rock, his head bowed heavily. The touch of first light opens

his eyes. His brow creasing, as if waking from a bad dream into

a worse reality. He looks around only to find himself alone. He

gets up, a little shaky at first, then ventures out of the cave.

58.

He emerges onto a ledge, perhaps fifty feet up. He pauses, eyes

adjusting to the quality of light. He sees the storm has reduced

to a low wind, combing the floorland o f scrub. Now, across the

ledge, he sees Ester. Perched on an outcrop, hugging her knees,

watching the sunrise over the desert. He crosses and lowers to a

crouch beside her. Ester turns to him with a confused frown-

ESTER

W h e r e did all the green go?

Lincoln looks deep into her troubled eyes. He answers gently-

LINCOLN

The r e is no green. The windows in

there... they were just pictures.

Ester absorbs this with difficulty. Lincoln rises again and

stands looking out across the desert, into the barren unknown.

89   EXT . THE SKY OVER THE DESERT - MORNING

From the massive sky grows a glinting shape. Like a helicopter

but sleeker, aquiline. Without combustion, its only noise is the

sibilance of blades slicing air. It is known as a "whisper".

90   INT . WHISPER - MORNING

The pilot jockeys with the thermals. Scheer rides shotgun. Now

in civvies, scanning the terrain with electronic binoculars. The

flight console beeps. He taps a keypad. A holoframe resolves:

CENSOR (ON HOLOFRAME)

Ground team checking in.

SCHEER

Anything?

CENSOR (ON HOLOFRAME)

The storm pretty much covered their

tracks. We're scanning for thermals

b u t the hotter it gets, the harder it

is to isolate a heat signature. I don't

know, sir, it's a big desert out there.

91   EXT . CHASM - THE RED ROCKS - DAY

The desert sun clefts the chasm into light and shadow. Lincoln

trudges into view, Ester lagging behind. He stops to let her

catch up, only to watch her slump onto a rock. He allows her a

moment to rest and walks to where the chasm comes to an end.

59.

He surveys the terrain. His eyes roam the carpet of scrub, now

narrowing on an inconsistency. A faint strip where nothing seems

to grow. Tracing its lineage, he walks a few feet out. Then

drops to a crouch and starts clawing away at the dust.

His fingers meet something hard. He sweeps off the dust to expose

a layer of concrete. Continuing, revealing the ghost of a line.

What we might recognize as a lane marker but a curiosity to him.

Continuing, opening a window in the dust. Now his fingers snag

o n something. He tugs it and it gives a little, dust crumbling to

reveal a section of rusted chainlink. A corner of metal is

visible. Lincoln exposes the rest. A sign, barely legible: "US

Government - Restricted Area". He frowns, trying to assimilate.

Ester comes up to join him. Off her anxious look, he decides-

LINCOLN

I think I've found a path.

92   EXT . THE GREEN MOUNTAINS - DAY

W h i t e rock blanketed by stands of fir and ponderosa pine. A

whisper skims over the treecaps, circling in on a high shelf.

Here, remotely nestled in a clearing, stands a glass villa.

93   INT . THE GLASS VILLA - DAY

The flood of light, the majestic view lend an air of beatitude.

The decor is minimalist with Native American accents, kokopelli

spirits in carved silhouette. Dr. Sanger stands at a glass wall,

looking out across the green mountain valley. On the sofa sits

Merrick, now in civvies, still gaunt from worry. The air stirs

as a maid ushers in A WOMAN - 30's, all business, sharp blue

eyes, a severe, mannish coiffure. Her name is ELLEN CROWNE.

CROWNE

Good morning, gentlemen.

SANGER

Bernard, this is Ellen Crowne from our

legal department. Ellen, this is

Bernard Merrick, director of products.

MERRICK

Thank you for coming out here.

CROWNE

Well when Henry called me I got the

sense it wasn't for a social visit.

They settle at a table. A jug of icewater a n d glasses laid out.

CROWNE

I understand there was an incident?

60.

MERRICK

First, let me stress there's no way we

could have anticipated what happened...

CROWNE

We're on the same team, Mr. Merrick.

Just give me the facts down-and-dirty.

MERRICK

(uneasy, clears his throat)

We'v e lost two of our products. They

escaped containment last night.

Crowne casts a troubled look at Sanger. Merrick quickly adds-

Merrick (cont'd)

However, we have all available

resources dedicated to the search.

CROWNE

How exactly did this happen?

MERRICK

We'r e still piecing it together.

CROWNE

Do we expect more products to escape?

DR. SANGER

Don't be so alarmist, Ellen.

CROWNE

I'm sorry, Henry, but you asked me

here to assess our liabilities.

MERRICK

To answer your question, we condition

our products with a deterrent. A fear of

contamination. And thereby of the outer

environment. So to escape, they first

have to escape their conditioning.

Crowne pauses to absorb this and to light a slim black cigarette.

CROWNE

Containment is one of the terms of our

state health license. The fact it was

compromised could put us in violation.

DR. SANGER

Bureaucracy.

61.

CROWNE

Henry , it was a bloody battle getting

our license through in the first place.

DR. SANGER

They're not going to pull our license,

Ellen. We have a lot of friends on the

Commission. Not to mention the goodwill

we earned in DC when we took over the

facility; a bunker complex for a bio-

chemical war that never happened... We

relieved them of a costly embarrassment.

CROWNE

I'm not sure we can rely on that.

DR. SANGER

Alright . What do you suggest?

CROWNE

First, I need you to level with me.

What are our chances of finding them?

MERRICK

Well, in our favor, they've never been

outside containment. They'd have no

coordinates, no sense of direction.

CROWNE

I don't see how that's in our favor.

MERRICK

They're in the middle of the desert.

Food and water become an issue.

CROWNE

So they might return to the trough?

MERRICK

Possibly.

CROWNE

And if not? How long could they last?

MERRICK

A few days maybe. But there is another

variable. We maintain the products in a

sterile environment. So basically their

immune systems are untested. Toxins,

pathogens, environmentals t h e rest of

us overcome routinely, to them...

62.

DR. SANGER

That's a little drastic. Some immune

systems are more adaptive than others.

CROWNE

Let's take the drastic case. What then?

MERRICK

Well . . . the male, we could cover. Fast-

track another generation before the

sponsor ever needed access. The female

comes under the maternity plan. She's

three months pregnant. Even if we fast-

tracked another generation, we couldn't

fast-track the pregnancy. We'd miss the

delivery date, the sponsor would wonder

why and there would be... difficulties.

Crowne looks worried. Sanger pours a glass of icewater.

DR. SANGER

Even so, the worst may not happen.

CROWNE

We haven't even touched on the worst. If

these products reach a populated area,

there's the problem of scrutiny.

DR. SANGER

Ellen , we operate under State license on

a lease from the Federal Government...

CROWNE

( c u t s him off, harshly)

We slipped through a loophole in the

clone laws, Henry. And they only let

u s through because they smelt money.

And they gave us a government basement

to cover their own a s s e s not ours. It's

at the core of our license - why we

screen potential sponsors, why we make

them sign discretion agreements, why

containment is such a critical factor -

to limit the extent of public scrutiny.

DR. SANGER

E i t h e r way, it's unlikely they'd get

that far. It's at least twenty miles to

the next settlement. Right, Bernard?

Merrick hesitates before nodding his assent. Crowne pounces on it-

63.

CROWNE

Something to add, Mr. Merrick?

MERRICK

I just don't think we should under-

estimate them. Especially the male.

DR. SANGER

And I don't think we should panic.

He cautions Merrick with a discreet look, then shakes a pill

from a bottle. Crowne looks forward to both men. Very serious.

CROWNE

Gentlemen, whatever happens we need

t o keep one thing clearly in mind. As

far as the world at large goes, we are

just another medical services company.

Anything that alters that perception

puts us at risk. And we cannot rely on

the sanction of the law to protect us.

Whenever and wherever and in whatever

condition we recover these products, we

have to stay beyond reproach. All it

takes is one nudge to put us in the

spotlight. Then you'll see how fast

politicians can run for cover.

Merrick shifts, uneasy. Sanger takes the pill with a bitter smile-

DR. SANGER

I n other words we need to find them

o r else. That's very astute, Ellen.

94   EXT . DESERT HIGHWAY - SUNSET

The dust swirls and puffs across a highway of yesteryear. A dirt

track but for patches of exposed concrete and angles of buckled

lampposts. The empty path reaches to a blood-red sunset.

95   EXT . SCRAPYARD - SUNSET

The dust skims over mountains of rusted scrap. Nestled in the

mountains is a shack. A sign creaks in the breeze "Osmund D e e r ,

Licensed Salvage Merchant". On the porch sits an old man in a

greasy ballcap a n d dungarees. This is the eponymous owner, OZZIE.

He's sitting on a lounger, surveying his empire, enjoying a beer

and a cigarette. Exhaling a drag of smoke, his eyes crease to a

squint. He sees something through the smoke, silhouetted against

the sunset. An approaching figure, wary, like a flighty animal.

64.

OZZIE

Hello?

The silhouetted figure doesn't answer, just stares back at him.

OZZIE

Can I help you?

This seems to get a response. The figure ventures closer. We

recognize Lincoln. Exhausted, dust-covered and dry-throated -

LINCOLN

My friend... she needs water.

96   INT . BACK ROOM - THE SHACK - SUNSET

A mass of technology and furniture from recent and distant past.

Lincoln lowers Ester onto a threadbare sofa. Ozzie, excited to

have visitors, bustles up with a water gallon, pouring a glass.

Lincoln takes it and tips it to Ester's lips. She coughs it out

at first. Then takes the glass and starts drinking with vigor.

Ozzie sets down the water gallon in front of his visitors. Then

settles in an armchair and cracks open a beer. It lends the mood,

albeit strained, of a social visit. Lonely old Ozzie wanting to

make it so. Despite which, both men have an eye on each other.

OZZIE

Got stuck in that supercell, didya?

Lincoln eyes him, wary of the question. Ozzie reads confusion-

OZZIE

Supercellstorm , that's what they call

it on the news anyways. I n my day, we

just called `em "big ol' h o w l e r s " .

Ozzie chuckles to himself. It seems to put his visitor at ease.

OZZIE

Yep, I heard it shut down some of the

lodeways. Dust in the works, I guess.

Where were you folks headed anyways?

Lincoln gulps down some water, deciding an answer. Then ventures-

LINCOLN

Away.

OZZIE

A w a y ? You mean, like outta s t a t e ?

LINCOLN

" O u t of state"...

65.

The term is meaningless to Lincoln but he likes the sound of it.

Ozzie grins. This is starting to feel like a real social visit.

OZZIE

N o w where's my manners gone? I'm Ozzie.

Osmund r e a l l y . But folks call me Ozzie.

An awkward lull as Ozzie waits for his visitor to reciprocate.

OZZIE

S o m e t i m e s I like to make a joke of it,

my last name bein' D e e r . . . "O. Deer".

O z z i e chuckles but the pun seems lost on his visitor. He lets it

drop. The awkward silence returns. Lincoln drinks the water,

wondering if this strange old man is as harmless as he appears.

OZZIE

We l l now, looks like yer g i r l f r i e n d ' s

made herself at home.

Lincoln looks at Ester, slumped over, asleep on the sofa. Ozzie

puts a finger to his lips, beckoning his visitor out of the room.

97   EXT . SCRAPYARD - DUSK

The porch light comes on, casting the scrapyard in grades of

light and shadow. Ozzie steps out onto the porch, lighting a

cigarette. His visitor hovering at the threshold, he offers the

pack. Lincoln steps out and takes one. Ozzie lights it for him-

OZZIE

Yer girlfriend sure is pretty.

His visitor looks at him curiously. Ozzie misinterprets that

he's said something out of turn. Time to change the subject-

OZZIE

So what's with them tattoos, huh?

He taps his forehead. Lincoln fingers his crosshatch, suddenly

aware of it now and suspicious of the question. Ozzie palliates-

OZZIE

Hey , in the eye of the beholder, right?

Now this place, this is beautiful to

me. This is my place. I own it. `May

not look like much but you'd be

surprised. C'mon, lemme show you...

Ozzie moseys into the scrapyard, beckoning his visitor. Lincoln

hesitates, then follows him, sensing it's better to play along.

66.

OZZIE

M o s t a t h i s heavy stuff's industrial

scrap. Comes in from all over. Easy way

round the recyclin' l a w s . Me, I sell it

on to the boondock b o y s for meltdown.

Other stuff, I pick up at the scrap

markets. Fix it up, `fetches a price.

The y reach a vehicle shell. A rust-pocked chassis, canted on its

axle, we might recognize it as an automobile from our own era.

OZZIE

Fossil fuel transport. This piece o'

junk's a collector's item. All that

Age of the Wheel nostalgia, "elegant

era of transport" bullshit. I find the

parts, she's as good as solid gold.

Ozzie pats his investment and moves to another rusted metal pile.

Steepled by rail tracks, we see elevator sheaves, tension cables.

OZZIE

Now this here's got a colorful history.

Came in from this ol' g o v e r n m e n t bunker

out in the valley. `Got shut down way

back. Then this new outfit took over,

stripped the place out. I guess they're

doin' s o m e more remodelling cause I

just had `em in again the other day...

( a tug of smoke, reflective)

Hump`n dump crew. Nice fellas.

Lincoln frowns. The term is familiar. The taste of smoke, a hint.

But his memory has been clouded by trauma. Ozzie reads his face-

OZZIE

You okay there?

Lincoln looks at him, something breaking the clouds. A sense of

danger, indistinct. Suddenly cautious, he stubs his cigarette-

LINCOLN

I'm going to check on my friend.

98   INT . FRONT ROOM - THE SHACK - DUSK

A front room turned into a front office. Piles of paper teeter

atop junk furniture. A bankers lap we might recognize from our

own era glows over a desk where Ozzie is rummaging, looking for

something. He stops to peer through and check on his visitors-

67.

The woman still lies asleep on the sofa. The man is sitting

beside her armchair, head bowed, seemingly plunged in thought.

O z z i e resumes rummaging to find a crumpled delivery note. He

reviews it for a moment. Then quickly clears away some more

papers to uncover a keypad device. It is known as a "holocom".

He taps a key and a holoframe resolves. Then taps in some digits

from the delivery note. The holoframe snows with static. Then a

crosshatch insignia appears, spinning in 3D:

RECORDED VOICE (ON HOLOCOM)

Welcome to The Sanger Institute. If you

know your party's extension, press...

LINCOLN (O.S.)

What are you doing?

Ozzie jerks round to find his visitor suddenly standing there.

He fumbles on the holocom keypad and the crosshatch blinks out.

OZZIE

Nuthin . I wasn't doin nuthin .

Lincoln frowns, the sense of danger becoming more distinct.

Ozzie reads his visitor's troubled expression, realizing-

OZZIE

I knew it... them clothes... them

weird tattoos... I mean, I heard

stories from those guys but I never...

O f f his visitor's frown, Ozzie bites his tongue. He's cornered

in this cramped space with a freak of science. Time to backpedal-

OZZIE

N o t that I believe `em... buncha c r a z y

stories... nuthin t o do with you...

He chuckles feebly. But his visitor just stares back at him,

pupils dilated and dark, somehow inhuman. Time to wriggle out-

OZZIE

W h a d d y a s a y we just forget about it,

huh? How about I go getcha a beer?

He makes a move past but his visitor doesn't budge. Lincoln

senses danger in this old man, whose fear is now manifest-

OZZIE

What e v e r you want... Just take it...

Whaddya w a n t . . . ? You want money...?

68.

OZZIE

I t ' s all I got... Take it... just

please... just don't hurt me...

LINCOLN

" O u t of state" - how do I get there?

C U T TO:

99    EXT . SKY OVER THE DESERT - NIGHT

100   EXT . SHUTTLE STOP - NIGHT

101   INT . THE GLASS VILLA - NIGHT

MERRICK

Bad news.

102   EXT . PHOENIX - NIGHT

69.

103   INT. ROOFTOP NIGHTCLUB - PHOENIX

SCHEER

Which one of you is Diggs?

DIGGS (THE BALD MAN)

That's me, slick. This here's my

partner Burdon. Don't mind him. He

gets a little shy around strangers.

SCHEER

What happened to his arm?

DIGGS

`Pursuit last week. The guy took a

swing at him with a fireaxe. Didn't

stop Burdie though . `Took down that

fucker with one arm, didn't you?

SCHEER

You don't look like bounty hunters.

DIGGS

Well we're on the job, see? And it

kind of helps if you bleed in. You

don't look like a bondman either.

SCHEER

I'm just an intermediary.

DIGGS

Now that's what people use when they

don't want to get their hands dirty.

SCHEER

I was told you also handled civil

bonds. Debt runners, data-thieves...

70.

DIGGS

What we hunt depends on the bounty.

SCHEER

It's worth ten platinum. Unmarked.

Diggs pauses at this. A huge amount. Suspiciously huge. He licks

some salt, downs a blue tequila shot and bites a slice of lime.

DIGGS

What's the bond?

SCHEER

The parties I represent want to limit

the specific details. But let's just

say industrial secrets are involved.

DIGGS

Ten platinum. Must be big secrets.

That canny grin again. It raises Scheer's hackles-

SCHEER

Any good at keeping them?

DIGGS

Oh, me and Burdie, we're busy bees. We

don't have time to file every report

and we got real bad memories. But just

so we understand each other, slick,

we're talking about a bag job, right?

Scheer returns an equivocal look. Then dips in his pocket for two

digital slides - Lincoln and Ester's headshots, spinning in 3D.

DIGGS

What's up with these tattoos? They

look like fucking boondock types .

SCHEER

All I'm authorized to tell you is they

have no records in this state. Also

that they're not armed or dangerous.

DIGGS

How about we start with their names?

SCHEER

John and Jane Doe...

DIGGS

You're kidding me, right? No names?

71.

Scheer's look says he's serious. But Diggs is still confounded.

DIGGS

The n - with all due respect - how the

fuck d o you expect us to find them?

SCHEER

Because you won't have to look. They

jumped an overnight shuttle. They'll be

headed for the terminal, trying to get

out of state. It's strictly a recovery

job. For you, it should be childsplay.

DIGGS

The n why not do it yourself? Or is the

dog ring just to impress the ladies?

The grin. Scheer moves his hand to cover the USMC ring, stiffly-

SCHEER

The parties I represent want to stay at

arm's length. And just so we understand

each other that means no connection, no

papertrail, no police interest...

DIGGS

Is that everything?

SCHEER

. . . no mistakes. They want these two

brought in quickly and quietly and

unharmed. Once you have them, you'll

contact me for further instructions.

DIGGS

I don't know. What do you say, Burdie?

B u r d o n looks over. Then suddenly stands bolt upright, diving into

his jacket, jerking out what looks like a pump-action shotgun.

BURDON

F r a n k Hofstetter! This is a bond

recovery! Step away from the bar!

F A C E S TURN as he swings aim across the bar - HOFSTETTER, slight,

wide-eyed, looking hunted - customers moving away, exposing him -

Burdon chambering a cartridge, emphatic - Hofstetter f r e e z e s - a

deer in the headlights - a moment of hesitation - then he runs.

- B O O M - BURDON FIRES but the shot misses, hitting the bartender -

exploding on impact with A BLINDING ELECTRICAL DISCHARGE - the

stunned bartender spasms and drops - Burdon pumps and chambers

another slug - his weapon now earned the name of a "thunderbolt".

72.

DIGGS

Don't bother. He'll drop by himself.

DIGGS

N o w . . . where were we?

104   EXT . THE DESERT - MORNING

105   INT . PASSENGER CAR - MORNING

73.

TICKET COLLECTOR

Tickets...

T I C K E T COLLECTOR (CONT'D)

A d u l t fare is forty five currency

units. Do you have the money, sir?

LINCOLN

I t ' s going to be okay, Ester.

ESTER

(faint)

Is it?

LINCOLN

We just need to get out of state.

106   EXT . PHOENIX - DAY

107   EXT . SHUTTLE STOP - PHOENIX - DAY

74.

V O I C E (O.S.)

He y , man, spare a little green?

T H E HOBO

A i n ' t eaten in two days, have we, boy?

108   EXT . STREET - DAY

109   INT . HOG HEAVEN - DAY

75.

LINCOLN

I told you to stay with me.

ESTER

( i n n o c e n t , plaintive)

I'm hungry.

LINCOLN

O k a y . Okay...

T H E SERVICE CLERK

A r e you gonna tell me what you want?

LINCOLN

( b e a t , no other reference)

What are my options?

T H E SERVICE CLERK

K n o c k yourself out, buddy.

110   INT . SEATING AREA - A FEW MINUTES LATER

LINCOLN

I asked the man how to get to the

terminal. He said it's not far.

111   EXT . PHOENIX TERMINAL - DAY

76.

112   INT . CONCOURSE - TERMINAL - DAY

113   INT . TICKET WINDOW - DAY

T H E TICKET CLERK

We l c o m e to Phoenix Union Station. What

is your date of travel, sir?

LINCOLN

Now...

T H E TICKET CLERK

An d what is your destination?

LINCOLN

O u t of state.

T H E TICKET CLERK

I'm sorry. Could you repeat that?

LINCOLN

We want to go out of state.

T H E TICKET CLERK

I'm sorry. Could you repeat that?

V O I C E (O.S.)

L i k e talking to a wall, ain't it?

DIGGS

H o l o s e r v e . C h e a p e r than flesh and

blood but nothing between the ears.

77.

DIGGS

F i r s t time I used one of these, I

asked her out on a date...

LINCOLN

What do you want?

DIGGS

J u s t wanted to help, that's all.

D I G G S (INTO RADIO)

B u r d i e , it's them. East exit.

114   EXT . TERMINAL - DAY

BURDON

You folks need a ride?

BURDON

P r i v a t e cab. No state surcharge...

78.

VOICE (O.S.)

He y ! What the fuck are you doing, man?

B a c k down the colonnade, THE HOBO is gesticulating to Burdon-

T H E HOBO

I told you! They went inside!

The hobo doesn't see Lincoln and Ester, unwitting that he's just

betrayed himself as their shadow... and Burdon as their predator.

His dog starts barking. Lincoln starts backing away with Ester,

his eyes blackening, the danger surging, the dog barking, the

giant's face dropping, the elements converging... They bolt.

BURDON

Shit!

B U R D O N JAMS INTO REVERSE - but his pursuit is cut short by a

parked vehicle - he swings a look back, jabbing his earpiece-

B U R D O N (INTO RADIO)

N o r t h Corner! North Corner!

LINCOLN AND ESTER RACE UP THE COLONNADE - against the flow of

figures - darting and weaving like fish swimming upstream --

D I G G S BURSTS FROM THE NORTH EXIT - launching up the north side

of the terminal - thinner foot traffic here, faster going --

LINCOLN AND ESTER SLOWING - the flow massing under the portico -

they peel through - the holoform p h o e n i x rumbling overhead --

D I G G S TURNING THE NORTH CORNER - pausing to touch his earpiece -

now launching south down the colonnade - towards the portico -

jerking a pair of handcuffs from his belt, ready for the snatch--

LINCOLN AND ESTER GAINING PACE - past the portico now, the way

opening - Lincoln's eyes flaring - a face in the distance ahead -

the pale man - he swings Ester around - doubling back to find --

B U R D O N COMING UP BEHIND - the flow of figures, no obstacle -

parting at his thunderous onset - his quarry, stopped and

staring at him - almost upon them - handcuffs at the ready--

LINCOLN FREEZES - caught between the dark giant and the pale man -

Ester cringing to his side - the dark giant charging up on them -

sunlight on metal - the sight of the handcuffs - TRIGGERING HIM--

LINCOLN GRABS ESTER - swinging her off the sidewalk - lowering

her into the lodeway - leaping down to join her - lode poles

pulsing, thrumming - rivets on their denims, rattling from the

polarity - traffic soaring past on lode-stream, chest-high -

79.

DIGGS

Why the fuck d i d n ' t you go after them?!

DIGGS

Fuck!

115   EXT . ALLEY - DAY

LINCOLN

We have to keep going.

80.

ESTER

P l e a s e . . . Please, I want to go back...

LINCOLN

T h o s e men - that's what they want too.

LINCOLN

We have to keep going, Ester.

116   EXT . ALLEY - MOMENTS LATER

117   INT . CUTTER - DRIVING

DIGGS

S u n n a v a b i t c h ! What the fuck d o we do

now, huh? They could be anywhere...

BURDON

We go back to the office and run `em.

DIGGS

A s what? John and Jane Doe?

BURDON

We ask the guy.

DIGGS

Y e a h , let's tell him we couldn't hack

it in kindergarten. See how long him

and his ten platinum stick around.

81.

BURDON

I t was blue, right?

DIGGS

What?

BURDON

The y were using a blue currency card.

118   EXT . STREET - DAY

119   INT . CIN BOOTH - DAY

THE SNAKE

H i there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you

want to know, wherever you want to go, I

got the answers! Let's look at the menu!

THE SNAKE (CONT'D)

N o w let's make a selection!

82.

LINCOLN

( b e a t , venturing)

Transport...

THE SNAKE

O k a y ! Let me open that directory for

you! I'll be with you in two shakes!

120   INT. CUTTER - STREETS - DRIVING - DAY

J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM)

D i g g s & Burdon Bond Agency.

DIGGS

J a n e e n , where the fuck have you been?

J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM)

B e a u t y therapy. I got a date tonight.

DIGGS

O h , Jesus... Listen, I want you to

punch into the currency stream for me.

Sweep for blue card transactions.

J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM)

You're kidding me, right? You have any

idea how long that's going to take?

DIGGS

I want serial numbers, batched a n d

cross-referenced. Start from Union

Station and work your way out...

121   EXT . BUS STATION - LATE AFTERNOON

83.

122   INT. CONCOURSE - BUS STATION

123   INT . TICKET WINDOW

T I C K E T CLERK

We l c o m e to Grey Dolphin Bus Lines.

What is your destination, please?

T I C K E T CLERK

I t ' s okay. Really. I get that a lot.

I'm sorry, now where were we again?

LINCOLN

I want to get out of state. Now.

T I C K E T CLERK

B e l i e v e me, I know how you feel. So

where did you want to go exactly?

LINCOLN

O u t of state...

T I C K E T CLERK

J u s t wherever the wind takes you, huh?

LINCOLN

Where's that?

T I C K E T CLERK

We l l , if it was me, out to the west

coast. It's perfect this time of year.

T I C K E T CLERK

T r a v e l l i n g alone, are we?

LINCOLN

N o . With her.

84.

T I C K E T COLLECTOR

T w o adults, let me see... I'm afraid I

can't get you seats till the morning.

124   INT . FOOD SERVICE AREA - BUS STATION

125   EXT . STREET - DUSK

126   INT . CUTTER - DRIVING - DUSK

J A N E E N (ON HOLOCOM)

D i g g s & Burdon Bond Agency.

DIGGS

We got a positive on the serial number.

Punch in and pull up the transactions.

Start with the last hour and work back.

JANEEN

G r e a t . So I got to park my ass in

front of a screen all night?

DIGGS

I t ' s a platinum bond, Janeen. We get

this, I'll buy you a new ass, okay?

127   INT . WAITING AREA - BUS STATION - NIGHT

85.

ESTER

Lincoln , what is that? On your face?

LINCOLN

A r e you alright?

ESTER

M y throat... it feels dry...

LINCOLN

O k a y . . . I'll get you some water.

128   INT . FOOD SERVICE AREA - NIGHT

129   INT . DEPARTURE AREA

D I G G S (ON RADIO)

P i e c e of cake, Burdie. J a n e Doe's in

the bag. Keep an eye out for John-Boy.

DIGGS

Bond recovery... state license.

86.

DIGGS

Play nice, little girl. Now you want

to tell me where your boyfriend is?

LINCOLN (O.S.)

Behind you.

DIGGS

What?

130   EXT . BUS DEPOT - NIGHT

M E T R O PD OFFICER (O.S.)

M e t r o PD!      Drop it!

87.

DIGGS

I'm a bond agent!

M E T R O PD OFFICER

I said drop the fucking w e a p o n !

D I G G S (INTO RADIO)

N o r t h b o u n d on Third. Get `em, Burdie -

and take off the fucking g l o v e s . . .

C U T TO:

131   EXT . STREET - NIGHT

132   EXT . ALLEY - NIGHT

88.

133   EXT. PEDESTRIAN ALLEY - NIGHT

BURDON

G o ahead. I'll look after her.

89.

134   EXT . BACKSTREET - NIGHT

135   EXT . ENCANTO PARK - NIGHT

136   INT . BOATHOUSE - ENCANTO PARK - NIGHT

ESTER

I can't... I can't breathe... my

throat... it's so... dry...

LINCOLN

I ' l l find you some water.

LINCOLN

I t ' s going to be okay, Ester.

90.

ESTER

N o . . . no, it isn't...

LINCOLN

I ' l l find you some water, okay?

Ester looks up at him, wheezing, tears streaming from her eyes-

ESTER

An d then what, Lincoln?

LINCOLN

I ' l l find another way. Out of state.

ESTER

An d then what? What if they find us?

LINCOLN

The n we'll keep going.

ESTER

I can't... I can't run anymore...

Ester folds over, sobbing and coughing at the same time. Pitiful

to watch. Lincoln crouches, gaining her eyeline, very deliberate-

LINCOLN

We ' l l keep going till we get there.

Ester traps a sob, reading his eyes, something reviving in her-

ESTER

The Island... You mean, The Island?

Lincoln answers with a brief smile. If this will keep her going

then the truth is redundant. He eases her out of the moment-

LINCOLN

N o w I'm going to get some water. But I

want you to stay here. It'll be safer.

Ester wipes away her tears, sniffing. Her breaths, calming.

ESTER

Don't go yet. Stay with me, Lincoln.

Stay with me for a little while.

Lincoln looks puzzled by Ester's request. Even more puzzled as

she rests her head on his shoulder, nestling into his neck. He

feels her against him. The warmth spreading through him again.

His arm reaching, as if of its own accord, closing around her.

I t feels right somehow. And there he stays, holding her, looking

out across the dereliction. And the moon rises over Encanto P a r k .

91.

137   EXT. METRO PD STATION - NIGHT

138   INT . CUTTER - DRIVING - NIGHT

JANEEN (ON HOLOCOM)

What the fuck do you want now?

DIGGS

(very calm, very cold)

Punch into the currency stream, close

the net on downtown and keep the search

active. The next time they use the card,

I want to be right on top of them...

139   EXT . DOWNTOWN STREET - NIGHT

LINCOLN

The man, the man up there. Who is he?

PEDESTRIAN

What planet `you been living on?

That's the Juggernaut, brother.

LINCOLN

The juggernaut...

92.

PEDESTRIAN

Jamil "The Juggernaut" Starkweather -

highest rushing total in the league.

`Least till that injury blew out his

gut. Now the doctors are saying he'll

be back on his feet next season. Those

fuckers sure can work miracles, huh?

140   INT . CIN BOOTH - NIGHT

THE SNAKE

Hi there! I'm Tattletail! What e v e r you

want to know, wherever you want to go, I

got the answers! Let's look at the menu!

THE SNAKE

N o w let's make a selection!

LINCOLN

Residential...

THE SNAKE

Please give me the name.

LINCOLN

Starkweather...

THE SNAKE

Okay! Let me find that listing for

you! I'll be with you in two shakes!

THE SNAKE

Starkweather , Jamil... I'm sorry! This

listing is blocked from the directory!

93.

THE SNAKE

You want me to find another listing?

F A D E TO BLACK.

141   EXT . DOWNTOWN STREET - MORNING

142   INT . STORE - MORNING

G U N S H O P OWNER

We ain't open for another hour.

DIGGS

Y e a h , well we ain't in the market.

G U N S H O P OWNER

E v e r y o n e ' s in the market, pal. One end

of the barrel or the other...

DIGGS

We ' r e chasing up a currency record from

last night. These two ring a bell?

G U N S H O P OWNER

What are you? Cops? Lawyers?

G U N S H O P OWNER

H i m , I remember... Came in just before

closing... wanted a shooter but didn't

have no ID... settled for one of these.

DIGGS

Did he give you a name?

G U N S H O P OWNER

No.

94.

DIGGS

Did he say where he was going?

G U N S H O P OWNER

No.

G U N S H O P OWNER

The r e was one thing. Kinda w e i r d .

He wanted to know how to use it...

143   EXT . APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING

D O O R M A N (O.S.)

Fancy dress, was it, sir?

144   INT . CORRIDOR - AN UPPER FLOOR - DAY

145   INT . APARTMENT - DAY

ESTER

What are you looking for?

LINCOLN

I don't know. Something. Just wait

there and make sure nobody's coming.

95.

As he leafs the papers, Ester waits dutifully by the door. Her

eyes wander across the framed pictures. Then narrow onto a 3D

p h o t o g r a p h . A college boxing team photo, grinning cup winners.

ESTER

L o o k at this...

Lincoln returns to her. Ester points to the photo. A face in the

row, blurred but eerily familiar. Lincoln seems not to react.

Ester, curiosity piqued, scans the other pictures. She alights

on a framed certificate - "Thomas R. Lincoln, Attorney-at-Law".

A MAN'S VOICE (O.S.)

What the hell are you doing?

Lincoln turns to confront A MAN in a robe. Disheveled from sleep,

grey from a hangover... the man's face is unmistakably his own.

This is TOM LINCOLN, sponsor of Lincoln Six-Echo, his bleary

eyes now widening in disbelief as he recognizes his agnate-

TOM

Oh, Jesus...

Lincoln is better prepared for this encounter but still stunned

by the sight of his double in the flesh. Sponsor and agnate stand

frozen. The only movement is Ester, her eyes flicking between

the same men, fraught, confused. Lincoln breaks the silence-

LINCOLN

Who are you?

Lincoln steps closer, eyes piercing. Tom takes a step back.

TOM

The y said... I'd never have to see you.

LINCOLN

Who?

Lincoln takes another step closer. Tom takes another step back.

TOM

The people...

LINCOLN

What people?

Lincoln takes another step closer. Tom stiffens, gathers himself-

TOM

Look, if you don't get out of here

right now, I'm calling security...

96.

Lincoln examines him, assimilating. His double seems to be as

belligerent as he is. Reasoning now, threat response kicking in.

Lincoln draws the hunting knife. Unused to it, he points it like

a gun. But it's enough of a threat for Tom, who swallows dryly-

TOM

Why are you here? What do you want?

LINCOLN

I want to know...

Tom grimaces at the ambiguity. That face. His f a c e . If not for

the pounding headache this would be a bad dream. He lowers onto

the sofa. Finds a cigarette and lights up. A drag, mind kicking

in. The knife cautioning him. With a slow exhale, he confesses-

TOM

One of the partners at my firm... he

told me about it. Gave me a referral.

I thought he was joking at first. I

went out there, took the sales tour.

Even before that I knew it wasn't a

joke. There was this discretion agree-

ment. I never saw anything like it and

I've seen a lot. Ironclad... breathe a

word and they've got you by the balls.

I don't know... There's cancer in my

family. Maybe it was just to keep up.

All the partners were on the policy.

LINCOLN

The policy?

He looks at his agnate. Then realizes the level of ignorance.

TOM

Christ, you have no idea, do you?

LINCOLN

About what?

Tom drags his cigarette, fingers trembling. He shakes his head-

TOM

I can't fucking do this...

LINCOLN

What are you talking about?

Lincoln moves closer, pointing the knife. Tom flinches, then-

TOM

Insurance. You're an insurance policy.

97.

LINCOLN

What is that?

TOM

Health insurance... medical...

LINCOLN

What does that mean?

TOM

If I get sick... if part of me gets

sick... I take a healthy part from you.

LINCOLN

Why?

TOM

How do you expect me to answer that?

It's just how it works, that's all.

Tom looks at his agnate. The insistent stare. The knife, pointing

at him like a finger. His fear yields to a flicker of anger-

TOM

What do you want? A fucking apology?

LINCOLN

Why do I look like you?

TOM

Because you are me . . .

LINCOLN

I don't understand.

TOM

Because they made you from my cells...

LINCOLN

Made me?

TOM

( a flare of anger)

That's right. You were made. Cooked up

in a centrifuge like a fucking boiled

egg. Every thought running through your

head, every word coming out of your

mouth, all of it, manufactured, made...

Lincoln frowns, trying to assimilate. Too much to process.

LINCOLN

You . . . you're the one who made me?

98.

TOM

No.

LINCOLN

Who made me?

TOM

I signed a contract. I can show you.

He gestures to a mirror on the wall. Lincoln steps back but his

eyes are unremitting. Tom rises, cautious, crossing to the wall.

He opens the mirror to reveal a wall safe. His trembling fingers

tap the keypad and the safe hisses open. He draws out a contract

folder embossed with a crosshatch. Then offers it to his agnate-

TOM

It's all right there. Who, why...

Lincoln takes the contract folder and starts flipping the pages,

reading. A pendulous silence falls. Tom stands watching, smoking

nervously. Ester stands by the door, trying to take all this in.

TOM

Look you've got what you wanted. Now

why don't you just get out of here?

LINCOLN

(pause, looks at him)

There are men out there, looking for

us. I want you to make them stop.

TOM

I can't...

Lincoln sets down the contract and brings up the knife again.

TOM

I can't. Look, I'm a lawyer, I know how

it works. The contract, everything, it's

all laced with confidentiality clauses.

It means they don't want this to get

out. It means whatever I do, they're

not going to stop. You understand?

Lincoln pauses, assimilating. His double's expression indicates

that he's telling the truth. Maybe try a more practical request-

LINCOLN

Do you have transport?

TOM

Transport , yes... yes, parked

downstairs... Bay 53... Take it...

99.

LINCOLN

And then you'll call security?

TOM

I'm not going to call security. I'm

not going to call anybody, okay?

TOM

Look, maybe there's something... maybe

there's a way to cancel the contract...

TOM

For Christ's sake! It's not my fault!

ESTER

Lincoln ! No!

146   INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING

147   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - DAY

100.

LINCOLN

Auto...

LINCOLN

O u t of state... West...

148   EXT . STREET - DAY

ESTER

The man back there... who looked like

you... does it mean I have someone too?

149   EXT . PHOENIX SKYLINE - DAY

150   INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY

SECRETARY

I just thought I should warn you. I

have a sponsor holding. His name's

Thomas Lincoln. He sounded... angry.

101.

151   EXT. STREET TUNNEL - DAY

152   EXT . MOTEL - DOWNTOWN PHOENIX - LATE AFTERNOON

153   INT . MOTEL ROOM - LATE AFTERNOON

Merrick (ON HOLOCOM)

K a r l , there's been a complication.

154   EXT . INTERSTATE - SUNSET

155   EXT . THE SALT FLATS - SUNSET

156   EXT . THE HERITAGE PARK - SUNSET

102.

THE INDIAN HOLOGRAM

Welcome to Salt River Heritage Park,

home to the Hohokam Nation for over two

thousand years. The park is now closed.

Please come back during opening hours,

9am t o 5pm, Monday through Saturday...

ESTER

He has marks on his face like us.

157   EXT . THE HERITAGE PARK - SUNSET

158   INT . PITHOUSE - SUNSET

ESTER

Is this... is this place The Island?

ESTER

I'm tired. Let me rest for a while.

159   EXT . PITHOUSE - NIGHT

160   EXT . THE PLATFORM MOUND - NIGHT

103.

VOICE (O.S.)

You look a little lost, my friend.

GREY DOVE (cont'd)

Or did you come here for a reason?

LINCOLN

I was looking for water.

GREY DOVE

Not the best place to look.

LINCOLN

My transport... it stopped working.

GREY DOVE

I see. And where were you going?

LINCOLN

Out of state...

161   EXT . THE CEREMONY - LATER

104.

LINCOLN

What is this place?

GREY DOVE

It is a sacred place. My people come

here to commune with their spirits.

GREY DOVE

Not easy to understand perhaps. For us,

the spirit is like the shadow on the

rock. Sometimes close, sometimes far

away, sometimes the sky clouds and the

shadow fades. We come here to ask our

spirits to return to us. The man...

(gestures to the shaman)

He speaks to The Grandfather from whom

all spirits are born. The Great Spirit

who binds every living thing. He has no

name. But he is everywhere. In the sun

and the moon, the wind and the rain...

GREY DOVE

Now he asks for the gift of vision that

he may see through to the spirit shape

of things. To find the spirits of the

lost. To bring them into the light...

162   INT . PITHOUSE - NIGHT - LATER

LINCOLN

A r e you alright?

ESTER

I feel better after I sleep.

105.

LINCOLN

The man out there... he said

everything has a spirit... every

living thing... but not...

163   EXT . THE INTERSTATE - DAWN

164   EXT . HARD SHOULDER - DAWN

DIGGS

I got thermals.

165   EXT . PLATFORM MOUND - SUNRISE

DIGGS

I'm looking for two bond runners. They

ditched near here last night.

106.

DIGGS (cont'd)

One man, one woman. Tattoos on the

forehead...

(nothing, just silent stares)

Anyone's seen them, I got fifty green.

(still nothing, aggravated)

What the fuck are you? Deaf and dumb?

DIGGS

Somebody start talking.

166   EXT . SALT MOUNTAINS - SUNRISE

ESTER

I can make it.

167   EXT . SALT CANYON - EARLY MORNING

LINCOLN

Don't worry. The one we want goes the

other way. He said it goes slower.

168   EXT . THE SOUTH FACE - MORNING

107.

169   EXT . THE NORTH RIDGE - MORNING

DIGGS

Up there in the rocks. Three o'clock.

I'm not sure... it could be ambient.

170   EXT . THE SOUTH FACE - MORNING

171   EXT . THE NORTH FACE - MORNING

108.

DIGGS' CLAWING FINGERS discover Lincoln's knife - tugging it from

his jacket - Lincoln grabbing his wrist, fighting for control -

THE KNIFE MOVING BETWEEN THEM - Diggs with better leverage - the

blade inching towards Lincoln's face - pressing into his cheek--

LINCOLN'S EYES - welling black, almost inhuman - the sense of

danger screaming in his ears - he grabs the pale man's throat -

DIGGS' EYES - bulging as he strains to push the knife home -

oxygen draining - conscious ebbing - he slumps back -

LINCOLN REGAINS THE KNIFE - the pale man seems to be out cold -

but he's not sure - he pauses holding the blade over him, then--

- B O O M - THE KNIFE FLIES FROM HIS GRIP IN A BURST OF DISCHARGE -

BURDON SNAPS AIM FOR ANOTHER SHOT - beading - his target moving

now - dropping out of the firing line - into the lode-canal--

BURDON INCHES TOWARD THE EDGE - thunderbolt angling downward -

into the trench - then suddenly he's GRABBED BY THE ANKLES -

LINCOLN STRAINING to overbalance the giant - feet up against the

wall - like trying to topple a tree - finally winning some give-

BURDON TOPPLES INTO THE TRENCH - his ankles clamped by his

quarry - both men meeting the concrete with a bone-shaking-

- THUD - LINCOLN IS CRUSHED BENEATH THE MASSIVE WEIGHT - the giant

already recovering from the fall - now dragging him upright--

- THUD - BURDON THROWS A PUNCH - mightily - hurling his quarry

across the trench - moving in quickly, following up with a kick--

- THUD - LINCOLN CRUMPLES as the boot smacks into him - then

another kick - then another - the world starts blurring --

BURDON TURNS AWAY - his quarry disabled for now - he recovers

his thunderbolt - turns back to administer the coup de grace--

LINCOLN LOOKS UP - the giant looming - the muzzle of his weapon

thrumming with energy - the rivets on his denims start rattling--

BURDON SPINS ROUND - the thunderbolt suddenly ripped from his

grasp - there, in the distance - AN EASTBOUND BARGE IS COMING -

LINCOLN SCRAMBLES UP THE WALL OF THE TRENCH - muscles straining,

feet slipping on the concrete - escaping the imminent vessel --

109.

DIGGS COMING TO - now seeing his quarry a short distance away -

emerging from the lode-canal - he looks around for a weapon, then-

BURDON (O.S.)

Diggs! Get me outta here!

BURDON STRUGGLING TO CLIMB OUT OF THE TRENCH - with one arm,

it's almost impossible - fighting against his own weight--

DIGGS REACHING THE EDGE - seeing the eastbound barge coming -

grabbing his partner's outreached hand - pulling him upward -

BURDON'S PANIC - his other arm flinging away - HIS METAL BRACE

SNARED BY THE LODE-STREAM - the force shuddering his entire body-

DIGGS PULLING WITH ALL HIS MIGHT - feet slipping - locked in a

tug of war with the lodestream - THE BARGE IS CLOSING FAST--

BURDON'S HORROR - now suspended between the two forces - feet

kicking - THE BARGE IS ALMOST UPON HIM - he screams agonized--

BURDON

Help me! HELP MEEEEE!

THE SCREAM IS INSTANTLY LOST in the whoosh of the barge. Diggs,

stunned, just looks at his hands, empty, spattered with blood.

DIGGS

Burdie...?

THE SHADOW OF THE ROCK - Lincoln rejoins Ester - casting a look

back - the eastbound barge now plummeting into the distance--

D I G G S STOOPING AT THE EDGE OF THE TRENCH - looking down - all

that remains of his partner is a smear of blood at the concrete--

LINCOLN AND ESTER REACHING THE FOOT OF THE ROCKS - seeing THE

WESTBOUND BARGE against the sunrise - snaking into the passage--

DIGGS PULLING UPRIGHT - spotting his quarry - fire in his eyes -

drawing out a boot-knife - slipping it between his teeth--

THE WESTBOUND BARGE pulling through the canyon - lode-poles

pulsing ahead of it - polarity thrumming in opposing flow--

LINCOLN AND ESTER start running as the barge comes towards them -

Lincoln pulling Ester along - struggling to match the pace--

A SOUND LIKE A BEATING TYMPANY COMING TOWARDS THEM - they look

round to see - A SHADOW RUNNING ALONG THE TOP OF THE BARGE--

D I G G S FLINGING HIMSELF OFF THE BARGE - the blade in his teeth -

arms spread - for an instant, like a vulture against the sun--

110.

LINCOLN IS SUDDENLY CRUSHED by the weight of his landing - ESTER

IS HURLED SIDEWAYS - into a ditch - lost in a cloud of dust--

D I G G S PULLING HIMSELF UP, astride of Lincoln - snatching the

knife from his clenched teeth - the sound, like a whetstone--

LINCOLN SPITTING DIRT - suddenly grabbed by the scalp and tugged

sideways - twisted partways o n t o his back, forced to look up at--

A BLACK SPOT AGAINST THE SUN - Diggs' face set in a murderous

sneer - he wants to see this fucker's e y e s - the torment--

LINCOLN DAZZLED BY THE SUNLIGHT - but suddenly knowing the face

of death - now catching the brief glint of the knife as --

D I G G S PLUNGES THE BLADE DOWN - slicing into his quarry's hand as

he throws it up in defense - his quarry YOWLING WITH PAIN--

LINCOLN FEELING THE STAB - his deepest instinct suddenly awoken -

every impulse, every fiber brought into alignment - survival--

D I G G S IS HURLED INTO THE AIR as Lincoln surges upward - he

tumbles backward into the dust - losing hold of the boot-knife--

LINCOLN PUSHES HIMSELF UPRIGHT - only makes it half-way -

scrambling towards the pale man - all fours, like an animal--

D I G G S CLAWING AROUND IN THE DUST - fingers finding metal - the

boot-knife - he brings it up - slashing at his imminent quarry--

LINCOLN RECOILING - the blade nicking his face - sudden rage -

grabbing the pale man by the arm - swinging him round into--

- B O O M - THE MOVING WALL OF FREIGHT CONTAINERS - as the westbound

barge passes - Diggs bounces off - stumbling to keep balance--

LINCOLN ON THE RETREAT - the pale man coming at him with the

knife - another nick - seeing a gap now, shoving him backwards--

- B O O M - THE MOVING WALL RESOUNDS - Diggs howls - snagged by a

bolt - hurt, his fury becomes incandescent - he strikes madly--

LINCOLN STUMBLING BACK - the pale man coming at him - the blade

flashing to and fro - frenzied - like a threshing machine--

F O R C I N G HIM UP AGAINST THE ROCKS - the knife almost upon him -

he grits his teeth and lunges forward - charging like a bull --

DIGGS CAREENS BACKWARD, still swiping the blade - digging into

his quarry - headlong towards the moving wall - hitting with--

- W H U M P - no resonant boom - no bouncing back - Diggs has hit a

gap between the containers and HIS HEAD HAS BEEN LOPPED OFF -

111.

LINCOLN

Ester! Stop! It's no use!

ESTER

We have to... get to... The Island...

LINCOLN

It's going too fast!

ESTER

We have to... get to...

F A D E TO BLACK.

172   EXT . SEDONA - LATE AFTERNOON

173   INT . STUDIO - RANCH HOME - LATE AFTERNOON

174   EXT . FRONT PORCH - RANCH HOME - LATE AFTERNOON

KATHERINE

O h , God... Oh, my God...

112.

175   EXT. PHOENIX - LATE AFTERNOON

176   INT . CROWNE'S OFFICE - SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER

CROWNE

I take it you've heard the news.

DR. SANGER

The bond agents. Yes. Unfortunate.

CROWNE

Unfortunate?

(pauses, lights a cigarette)

We're way past unfortunate, Henry.

DR. SANGER

I thought we'd covered ourselves.

CROWNE

The police won't connect the bond

agents to us. But that's not the

problem. It's the sponsor.

DR. SANGER

What are you talking about?

MERRICK

The male agnate tracked him down.

CROWNE

His name's Thomas Lincoln. It seems

they had a genetic reunion. Not a

h a p p y one. It was all I could do to

stop him going to the authorities.

DR. SANGER

I still don't see the problem.

CROWNE

He may not want a police involvement

but he's already threatened to file

suit. And he's one of the biggest

litigation attorneys in the city.

113.

DR. SANGER

That's why we have you, Ellen.

CROWNE

That's why I asked Bernard to come out

here. To find out how it happened.

MERRICK

I told her, Henry. About synesthesia.

S a n g e r casts a betrayed look at Merrick. Then returns to Crowne-

DR. SANGER

I t was a marginal problem. And it was

under control - according to Bernard.

CROWNE

That's not the point. Whether or not

it's a factor in this instance, it

puts us in breach of the clone laws.

DR. SANGER

I t doesn't even touch their genetics.

CROWNE

I'm talking about self-awareness. The

virtual humanity statutes require us

t o give them consciousness to the

l e v e l of functionality. But not beyond.

This gives Sanger pause. Crowne drags her cigarette acutely.

CROWNE

L e g a l l y , we are naked on every level.

Federal legislature, state licensing,

sponsorship contract... But even if we

did manage to weather the legal storm,

we'd never survive the public scrutiny.

S a n g e r absorbs this, calmly shaking a pill from his pill bottle.

DR. SANGER

I've spent my entire career facing down

naysayers, Ellen. Don't think for a

second I'm afraid of facing them now.

CROWNE

You remember cryogenics? At the outset,

people dismissed it as a rich man's

folly. Eccentric millionaires freezing

their brains, hoping to wake up in a new

body.

114.

CROWNE (cont'd)

E v e n when cloning showed signs of

m a k i n g it feasible, it wasn't moral

a f f r o n t that caused the backlash. It

w a s the scope. The scope, Henry. When

t h e size of the customer base was

e x p o s e d , it screamed inequality - one

m e d i c i n e for the rich and one for the

p o o r . The pressure for accessible cryo-

genics a s good as buried the industry.

( a pause for emphasis)

O u r graves are being dug as we speak,

g e n t l e m e n . Every passing second, they

g e t deeper. If we're going to survive,

w e have to act swiftly and decisively.

DR. SANGER

A l r i g h t . What do you suggest?

S a n g e r dry swallows the pill. Ellen opens a contract folder.

CROWNE

O u r security chief - I've been looking

at his file. Ex-marine, served in South

China - do we think he still has it in

him?

DR. SANGER

( r e a l i z i n g , suddenly harsh)

A r e you insane?

The i r eyes deadlock. Crowne gives Merrick a sideways glance.

CROWNE

` You ever wondered why Henry takes

those pills, Bernard? Why he doesn't

avail himself of his own technology?

DR. SANGER

An agnate could give me a new heart

but to get it to function mentally...

CROWNE

B u l l s h i t , Henry. Bullshit. You don't

want to deal with reality. Only with

concept. I may not have been there at

the start but I heard the stories. You

wanted in on every aspect of

construction, from environmental

design right down to the classical

playlists. I t wasn't enough just to

make it work, was it? No, you wanted

your own little utopia.

115.

CROWNE (cont'd)

Swanning a r o u n d in your mountain

r e t r e a t like some self-appointed

d e i t y . But when it comes to getting

y o u r hands dirty...

DR. SANGER

A r e you quite finished?

CROWNE

E v e n God has blood on his hands, Henry.

Are you going to watch it all go up in

flames or are you going to deal with it?

DR. SANGER

You see that street down there...?

Running east from the stadium. My

father used to take me to church on

that street. An old Spanish church.

CROWNE

What's your point?

DR. SANGER

I didn't know they'd torn it down.

177   INT . GUEST BEDROOM - KATHERINE'S HOUSE - EVENING

178   INT . KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

LINCOLN

What did you give her?

KATHERINE

J u s t something to help her sleep. I

think she has a bronchial infection.

But I'm not sure I should give her an

antibiotic in case it effects the baby.

LINCOLN

S o you know about the baby...

116.

KATHERINE

Is n ' t that why you came here?

LINCOLN

I found your name in the listings. I

wasn't sure. You don't look like her.

KATHERINE

The y have a plan... For women like me.

LINCOLN

S o you're the one who takes her baby.

Katherine winces at him. It's uttered so matter-of-factly. She

pauses, hanging her head, searching within herself.

KATHERINE

You know when you're young? How you

run around thinking you're immortal?

Lincoln ' s look says he has no idea. She seems not to notice.

KATHERINE

The r e was a lodeway accident. I was...

damaged. After that, I thought no man

would ever want me. I was wrong. His

name was John. He said he married me

for my eyes. Ocean eyes, he called

them. He always loved the ocean. Up

there on the wall, that's John's boat.

O f f her gesture, Lincoln glances at the wall. A watercolor of a

yacht. Meaningless to him but Katherine gazes it at, fondly-

KATHERINE

But I think there was always an unspoken

regret between us. When we heard about

the technology, it was like... forgive-

n e s s , like a second chance. A child of

our own, part of both of us. Sailing

trips, fishing trips, so many plans...

( a flat beat)

J o h n got cancer a year ago. He died.

He r eyes mist, distant and bittersweet, talking to herself now.

KATHERINE

I r o n i c . That the same technology could

have saved his life. And now the baby

is the only part of him I have left.

And the boat. I still have the boat.

Lincoln looks discomfited. There's more to this than he thought.

117.

179   INT. MOTEL ROOM - EVENING

SCHEER

I told you we shouldn't have gone to

outside personnel. They were cowboys.

MERRICK

We had no choice, Karl. We had to keep

this away from The Institute.

SCHEER

An d now?

SCHEER

What's this?

MERRICK

Your resignation papers. Maybe `early

retirement' would be more accurate...

MERRICK

T e n platinum bounty - if you sign the

papers, their loss becomes your gain.

SCHEER

A parachute... So there's a jump?

MERRICK

You understand that whatever happens,

The Institute must be able to deny it.

MERRICK

We use a chemical to dispose of waste

product. It's called di-halcyonate. I t

reacts on a molecular level to start a

process of internal combustion. The

subject is incinerated from the inside

out. In post-mortem application it's

done its job before rigor mortis. In a

live subject, well... you can imagine.

118.

SCHEER

You want to dispose of your products.

MERRICK

I t ' s a little more complicated than

that. We have to be very... thorough.

If you still have it in you, that is.

SCHEER

Why do you think I still wear this?

MERRICK

I don't know.

SCHEER

I was discharged from the marines for

insubordination. If you asked anyone

i n my unit, they'd call it heroism. I

disobeyed an order to fall back. I took

out a bunker complex single-handed.

MERRICK

S o you wear it is a badge of honor?

SCHEER

N o . It wasn't bravery. I wasn't afraid

of dying. I just didn't care. You see,

I suddenly realized I was just a sack

of flesh with a heartbeat. Life, death,

I just couldn't see the point anymore.

MERRICK

You'll find a vehicle parked outside.

It's unregistered, difficult to trace.

I take it we have an agreement...?

180   INT . KATHERINE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

181   INT . KATHERINE'S KITCHEN - NIGHT

KATHERINE

What do I call you?

119.

LINCOLN

Lincoln . My name's Lincoln.

KATHERINE

Lincoln , I think she needs professional

help. I think she needs to see a doctor.

LINCOLN

N o . They'll find her. They'll take her.

KATHERINE

N o t if I don't want them to.

LINCOLN

You don't understand. They don't want

people to know about her. Either of us.

KATHERINE

The doctor I'm thinking of, he's an

old friend. He look after John in

t h e final stages. I trust him.

LINCOLN

Why ? So you can take her baby?

KATHERINE

N o . No, that's not what I want.

O f f Lincoln's blunt look, she sighs, lowering into a chair.

KATHERINE

M a y b e I didn't realize she'd      be so...

( c u t s off, a deep pause)

M a y b e I just didn't want to.      Either

way, I was wrong. I want you          to know

that. I was wrong... And I'm          sorry.

A heavy lull. Lincoln hangs his head, remembering.

LINCOLN

The y make you believe there's a place

called The Island. Then they take you

upstairs and put you to sleep. They

cut you open. They take pieces of you.

Katherine looks at him, intuiting. She allows a pause, then-

KATHERINE

E v e n if I had taken her baby, I swear

to you, I'd never have... They give

you a choice, you see, to extend the

sponsorship after... after d e l i v e r y .

120.

LINCOLN

N o . I saw a lot of us go to The Island.

But I never saw anyone come back.

KATHERINE

You mean... Even if I had extended the

sponsorship, they'd have... and kept

taking the money? But that's inhuman.

LINCOLN

( b e a t , a lost look)

Is it? I wouldn't know.

182   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - EVENING

183   INT . APARTMENT BUILDING - EVENING

TOM

Yes?

SCHEER

I'm from the Sanger Institute.

TOM

I've given you people enough of my

time already.

SCHEER

I t ' s just a formality. I need to see

your sponsorship contract.

SCHEER

Is this the only copy?

TOM

Why would I make copies? Do you think

I want anyone else to know about this?

121.

184   EXT. NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - PHOENIX - NIGHT

185   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - NIGHT

D R . ABRAMS

Katherine . . . It's good to see you. I

haven't seen you since John's funeral.

KATHERINE

We l l I've been keeping busy. Trying

to. Thanks for coming down to meet me.

D R . ABRAMS

Your call was a little cryptic. What

is it exactly that's wrong with you?

KATHERINE

I t ' s not me... Not exactly.

186   EXT . THE RANCH HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT

187   INT . THE STUDIO / MAIN HOUSE - SEDONA - NIGHT

R E C E P T I O N I S T (ON HOLOCOM)

N e w Gaza Hospital, how may I help you?

122.

188   INT. WAITING ROOM - NEW GAZA HOSPITAL - NIGHT - LATER

D R . ABRAMS

Your friend... she has pneumonia. At a

very advanced stage. Its progress has

been unchecked by her immune system.

LINCOLN

C a n you help her?

D R . ABRAMS

We have two options... One is a super-

b i o t i c . But there's the risk her immune

system might bow out of the fight. The

other is a nodal transfusion. Katherine

has agreed to be the donor. But the new

antibodies may not conform fully. They

m a y decide to attack the baby...

LINCOLN

I don't understand any of this.

KATHERINE

He means that by trying to help her,

we could lose her. Or lose the baby.

D R . ABRAMS

Or , if we do nothing, both. Her immune

system is... remarkably unstable. If we

don't act, the infection will take over.

189   INT . HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

LINCOLN

He l l o , stranger.

ESTER

You look tired, Lincoln.

LINCOLN

Ester...

123.

ESTER

I t ' s okay. I know. Katherine told me.

ESTER

She told me a lot of things. About how

they used a tiny part of her to make me.

She said it wasn't so very different.

LINCOLN

What do you mean?

ESTER

( t o u c h i n g her belly)

F r o m this... From having a baby.

ESTER

She told me how they use us... And I

keep thinking... about the others...

the ones we left behind, about how

they'll never know... how they'll...

ESTER

I'm going to be okay, Lincoln.

LINCOLN

I know.

190   INT . MEN'S ROOM - HOSPITAL - NIGHT

LINCOLN

No...

124.

191   INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

192   INT . PREP ROOM - NIGHT

LINCOLN

We have to go. We have to get her out.

KATHERINE

What are you talking about?

LINCOLN

He's come for her. For us.

D R . ABRAMS

What e v e r this is about, we can't move

her. She's already under sedation.

LINCOLN

How long before she wakes up?

D R . ABRAMS

The procedure takes three hours but...

LINCOLN

( t o Katherine, emphatic)

You'll take care of it, won't you? Take

her somewhere they can't find her...

D R . ABRAMS

Katherine , what the hell's going on?

193   EXT . HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - NIGHT

125.

194   INT . STAIRWELL - NIGHT

195   INT . UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NIGHT

196   EXT . EXIT RAMP - THE HOSPITAL - NIGHT

197   EXT . STREETS OF PHOENIX - NIGHT

126.

198   EXT . ENTRANCE - HOLSPAR STADIUM - NIGHT

P A R K I N G ATTENDANT

We l c o m e to Holspar S t a d i u m , home of the

Phoenix Admirals, parking is fifteen

currency units...

127.

199   EXT . PARKING LOT - HOLSPAR STADIUM - NIGHT - MINUTES LATER

200   INT . STORAGE AREA - HOLSPAR STADIUM - MINUTES LATER

S E C U R I T Y GUARD

You , what are you doing down here?

S E C U R I T Y GUARD

O h , Jesus... Are you okay, son?

128.

SCHEER

I'm jealous of you. You have a reason to

live. I can't say I've ever had that...

D I S S O L V I N G TO:

201   INT . TOP OF STAIRWELL - NIGHT - MUCH LATER

T H E FIREMAN

N o t h i n g . . . If there was anyone down

there, they're a pile of ashes now.

F A D E TO BLACK.

129.

202   EXT. CEMETERY - SOME DAYS LATER

CROWNE

M r s . Ester? My name is Ellen Crowne.

203   INT . CEO'S OFFICE - THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY

DR. SANGER

M y name is Henry Sanger. I'd like to

offer my deepest condolences.

DR. SANGER

This is Bernard Merrick our facility

director. He knew Ester personally.

MERRICK

An d it's a terrible loss.

CROWNE

L e g a l issues must seem trivial at this

time. But the sponsorship agreement has

certain conditions relating to confident-

i a l i t y . D e s p i t e this tragic t u r n of

events, those conditions remain binding.

We want to be sure you understand that.

KATHERINE

I see.

CROWNE

T h a t said, The Institute is likewise

bound by the terms of sponsorship and

while we reserve every right...

KATHERINE

You can stop there. I know why I'm

here. You wanted to know if I'm going

to sue you for breach of contract.

130.

DR. SANGER

N o t h i n g so devious, Mrs. Ester. We

simply wanted to find some way to

heal the wounds from this incident.

KATHERINE

I don't want restitution, Dr. Sanger.

The reason I agreed to this meeting

was to have the chance to talk to you.

DR. SANGER

O f course. Please...

KATHERINE

I never got to meet you when I visited

The Institute. It was one of your sales-

m e n who led the tour. I remember how

h e described the agnates a s if they

were some kind of mindless organisms.

More like livestock than humanity...

CROWNE

L e g a l l y , human rights don't apply.

DR. SANGER

Don't interrupt, Ellen.

KATHERINE

I remember how eager I was to believe

him. But when I saw w h a t I'd created,

in flesh and blood, when I touched h e r ,

it was I who felt less than human.

DR. SANGER

I understand.

He looks at her expressively. Perhaps he really does understand.

KATHERINE

Ester ' s life was my responsibility and

her death is my cross to bear alone. So

I'm not going to sue you, Dr. Sanger...

( b e a t , a sudden ominous tone)

But I am going to blame y o u . Until the

day I die, I will silently curse your

name. That's w h a t I wanted you to know.

She drives it home with a horrible look. Sanger accepts it with

due gravity. There's an ugly pause. Katherine gets to her feet.

KATHERINE

An d now I'd like to leave, please.

131.

CROWNE

We do have other issues to discuss...

DR. SANGER

N o , Ellen, that's enough. I think Mrs.

Ester has said all there is to say.

204   EXT . STREET - OUTSIDE THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER - DAY

D R . ABRAMS

I hope you know what you're doing.

KATHERINE

I don't think they suspected anything.

D R . ABRAMS

J u s t understand that I've put a lot on

the line for you, Katherine.

KATHERINE

I know... But it felt good. It felt

like something John would have done.

205   INT . ROOFTOP FLIGHTPAD - THE SANGER INDUSTRIES TOWER

CROWNE

We l l , I don't know about the two of

you but I'd say we got off lightly.

DR. SANGER

Did we?

CROWNE

Don't start getting maudlin, Henry.

It's a little too late in the game.

D I S S O L V E TO:

206   EXT . THE SANGER INSTITUTE - SOME WEEKS LATER

132.

207   INT . ENTRANCE HALL - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY

LYDIA

L a d i e s and gentlemen, my name is Lydia

and on behalf of our staff, I'd like

t o welcome you to The Sanger Institute.

Before we start the tour, we'll be serv-

i n g r e f r e s h m e n t s in the visitor center

and circulating our standard discretion

agreements. I should add that today you

are all very lucky because our CEO and

founder, Dr. Henry Sanger, is with us

and will be leading the tour personally.

208   INT . VISITOR CENTER - THE SANGER INSTITUTE - DAY

LYDIA

Yes . . . Mr. Thomas, isn't it?

LINCOLN

I can't find my sunglasses. I think I

left them on the shuttle.

LYDIA

We l l we're about to start the tour.

But I can have someone check for you.

LINCOLN

Don't worry. I'll catch up.

209   EXT . PROCESSING PLANT - DAY

133.

A VOICE (O.S.)

S i r , this is a restricted area...

210   INT . ELEVATOR - PROCESSING PLANT

211   INT . ELEVATOR SHAFT

212   INT . ELEVATOR - DESCENDING

213   INT . THE ETHER GRID

214   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

215   INT . CORRIDOR - LEVEL TWENTY SEVEN

134.

216   INT. CHAMBER - LEVEL TWENTY SEVEN

217   INT . SALES HALL - THE INSTITUTE - DAY

DR. SANGER

C a s e in point, the clone. Back in the

beginning, the mapping of the human

genome was declared a historic landmark-

to break the curse of heredity, to

correct congenital defect... genetic

engineering became the brave new world

of medical science. A bright future

that led to a dark age and much of...

( a n abrupt pause, a frown)

. . . l e g i s l a t i o n we know today. But while

the clone laws may have narrowed the

field, science marches on. Only to...

( a n o t h e r abrupt pause)

I'm sorry, I'm f...

LYDIA

DR. SANGER?

135.

LYDIA

He's having a heart attack! A doctor!

Somebody get a doctor in here!

218   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE - CONTAINMENT

CENSOR

S i r , I've been trying to contact you.

It's the ether... Something's wrong.

Merrick (P/B O N ETHERSCREEN)

We l l , Starkweather, if you're watching

on etherscreen - your time has come, my

friend! You're going to The Island!

MERRICK

( s t a b s at a key on his console)

E t h e r c o n ! Ether control, come in!

MERRICK

An y o n e ! Somebody pick up!

CENSOR

That's what I mean. We can't get

through. The circuits are locked.

MERRICK

How wide is this going?

136.

CENSOR

C o m m u n i t y - w i d e , sir. Everywhere.

219   INT . CONTAINMENT

220   INT . DIRECTOR'S OFFICE

221   INT . ETHER CONTROL ROOM

222   INT . RESIDENTIAL BLOCK - DAY

S L O W FADE TO BLACK.

223   INT . BASEMENT - A YEAR LATER

137.

LINCOLN

I t ' s been a year since the breakout. A

year in hiding, waiting for things to

quiet down. I don't know how many made

i t out or how many who did, survived. I

know there are people called politicians

trying to say it never happened. That's

why I've kept this journal. To keep the

truth alive. Alive... I've learned what

that means but it still confuses me. In

functional terms, I've been alive for ten

years. In human terms, more than thirty.

Human... I'm not sure about that one

either. They say I'm not human because

I have no mother or father. I guess I

have more to learn. But one word I do

understand is hope. So maybe this

j o u r n a l will give hope - to those like

me, who may be out there. To know

t h e y ' r e not alone. My name is Lincoln

S i x - E c h o and this is my testament...

A WOMAN'S VOICE (O.S.)

Is he hungry again? I just fed him.

LINCOLN

Lincoln Junior, huh? It still doesn't

sound right. That name.

ESTER

I t ' s the name of his father.

LINCOLN

We should finish packing.

224   EXT . JETTY - THE PACIFIC COAST - DAWN

138.

LINCOLN

Time to go.

LINCOLN

You'll make sure this gets out?

KATHERINE

Yes . There are people sympathetic to

the cause. I'm going to get it to them.

LINCOLN

Thank you, Katherine. For everything.

KATHERINE

Don't forget that. It has the

operating manuals for the boat.

LINCOLN

I've been looking at them for months.

KATHERINE

But the maps, the charts...

LINCOLN

( b e a t ; a meaningful look)

I don't need them either.

225   EXT . THE PACIFIC - DAWN

T H E END

