FADE IN:

EXT. THE SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Epic beauty: cobalt mountains beneath a glowering purple sky

fringed with pink, as if the clouds were a lid too small for

the earth; a cascading landscape of boulders shrouded in

deep green grass; and the blue lochs, reflecting the sky. We

hear a voice, husky, Scottish...

EXT. MACANDREWS FARM - DAY

A farmhouse and a large barn lie nestled in a Scottish valley.

Riding down the roads that lead in from opposite sides are

Scottish noblemen in full regalia: eye-popping tartans,

sparkling chestplates. Even the horses are draped in scarlet.

Behind each nobleman rides a single page boy.

Another noble rides in from the opposite side. Two more appear

down the road, converging on the barn.

The nobles eye each other cautiously, but the truce holds.

They enter the barn, with their pages...

EXT. SCOTTISH FARM - DAY

Nestled in emerald hills are the thatched roof house and

barn and outbuildings of a well-run farm. The farmer, MALCOLM

WALLACE, and his nineteen-year-old son JOHN, both strong,

tough men, are riding away from the farm. They hear hooves

behind them and turn to see a boy riding after them.

We FAVOR JOHN WALLACE, the nineteen-year-old sitting easily

on his horse, beside his father...

WILLIAM, a skinny eight-year-old riding bareback, catches up

to his father and older brother.

They ride on, over the lush hills.

EXT. THE MACANDREWS FARM - DAY

The horses are all gone; the place looks deserted. UP ON THE

HILL we see the three Wallaces, looking down.

He means William. He and his elder son spur their horses.

AT THE BARN - DAY

The Wallaces ride up, looking around.

Malcolm finds a pitchfork, John the woodpile axe...

INT. THE BARN

POV from within as the door opens and a widening block of

sunlight illuminates the dusty shadows. Malcolm and John

Wallace step in, and are shocked to see...

POV THE WALLACES

Hanging from the rafters of the barn are thirty Scottish

noblemen and thirty pages, their faces purple and contorted

by the strangulation hanging, their tongues protruding.

Malcolm stabs the pitchfork into the ground in useless anger;

John still grips the axe as he follows his father through

the hanging bodies of the noblemen to the back row, to see

the one man in commoner's dress, like theirs...

A SHUFFLE; John spins; William has entered the back door.

Before his father and brother can think of anything to say,

William, with a boy's curiosity, touches the spurred foot of

the hanged noblemen we first saw riding in. It's too solid;

he takes a real look at the face, and suddenly --

He turns to run, but knocks back into the feet of the hanged

man behind him! In blind panic he darts in another direction,

and runs into another corpse, and another; the hanged men

begin to swing, making it harder for William's father and

older brother to fight their way to him.

Then, worst of all, William sees the pages, boys like himself,

hanged in a row behind their masters!

Finally his father and brother reach William and hug him

tight. There in the barn, among the swinging bodies of the

hanged nobles, Malcolm Wallace grips his sons.

EXT. WALLACE FARMHOUSE - NIGHT

The cottage looks peaceful, the windows glowing yellow into

the night. From outside the house we see John rise and close

the shutters of the kitchen, where men are gathered. We PAN

UP to the upper bedroom window...

INSIDE THAT BEDROOM

Young William is in nightmarish sleep. He mumbles in smothered

terror; he twitches. We see

HIS NIGHTMARE

In the blue-grays of his dream, William stands at the door

of the barn, gazing at the hanged knights. We WHIP PAN to

their faces, garish, horrible... Then one of the heads moves

and its eyes open! William wants to run, but he can't get

his body to respond... and the hanging nobleman, his bloated

tongue still bursting through his lips, moans...

WILLIAM tears himself from sleep; looking around, swallowing

back his tears and panic.

IN THE KITCHEN

A dozen strong, tough farmers have huddled. Red-headed

CAMPBELL, scarred and missing fingers, is stirred up, while

his friend MacCLANNOUGH is reluctant.

Young Wallace has snuck down and is eavesdropping from the

stairs. He sees his father drip his finger into a jug of

whiskey and use the wet finger to draw on the tabletop.

EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

Malcolm and John have saddled horses; they are checking the

short swords they've tucked into grain sacks when William

comes out of the barn with his own horse.

These words from his youngest son make Malcolm pause, and

kneel, to look into William's eyes.

Malcolm and John mount their horses and ride away, leaving

William looking forlorn. They wave; he waves back.

EXT SCOTTISH HILLS, NEAR THE WALLACE FARM - DAY

It's strangely quiet, until William and his friend HAMISH

CAMPBELL, a red-headed like his father, race up the hillside

and duck in among a grove of trees. Breathless, gasping,

they press their backs to the tree bark. William peers around

a tree, then shrinks back and whispers...

Hamish leans forward for a look, but William pulls him back.

They wait; heavy FOOTSTEPS. Then from around the edge of the

grove three enormous, ugly hogs appear. The boys hurling

rotten eggs. The eggs slap the snouts of the pigs, who scatter

as the boys charge, howling. We PULL BACK... as the sun goes

down on their play.

EXT. THE WALLACE HOUSE - SUNDOWN

The boys walk toward the house, beneath a lavender sky.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

William's face appears at the window, looking toward

THE DISTANT HILLS

of trees and heather, where there is no sign of life.

INT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT

William has cooked stew in a pot, and now spoons up two

steaming bowls full and sets them out on the table. But he

is only hoping. He looks out the window again; he is still

all alone. So he leaves a candle burning on the table beside

the stew, and moves up the stairs.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAWN

The house is silent, fog rolling around it in the dawn.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAWN

William has been awake all night, afraid to sleep. He rises,

and in QUICK CUTS: he dresses; he moves down the hall, stops

at the door of his father's bedroom and sees the undisturbed

bed. He moves on, passing the door of his brother's room,

also unrumpled.

IN THE KITCHEN

He finds the two cold bowls of stew, beside the exhausted

candle. He spoons up his own cold porridge, and eats alone.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

William is in the barn loft, shoveling corn down to feed the

hogs, while he glimpses something coming.

THE BOY'S POV

An ox cart is coming down the curving lane. Its driver is

Campbell, with MacClannough walking behind it. The farmers

glance up at William, their faces grim...

From his perch in the loft, William sees that the neighbors

have brought: the bodies of his father and brother. The cart

stops; Campbell, with a bandage around his left hand where

more of his fingers are now missing, studies the back of the

ox, as if it could tell him how to break such news. The butt

of the ox seems to tell him to be matter-of-fact.

William looks away, he takes quick breaths, he looks back...

but the bodies are still there.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

It's now surrounded by horses, wagons, and neighbors. The

undertaker arrives in his hearse.

INT. THE SHED - DAY

On a table the undertaker has laid out the bodies and is

preparing them. Cloths around the lower jaw and top of the

head bind their mouths shut; pennies cover their eyes.

Softly, William enters the shed, drawn to his father and

brother. Campbell follows him in, wanting to stop him -- but

what can he say now? The undertaker goes on with his work.

William approaches the table; the bodies don't look real to

him. He sees the wounds. The dried blood.

The undertake pours water from a bowl and scrubs off the

blood. But the wounds remain.

EXT. GRAVESIDE - DAY

CLOSE on a grave, with a headstone marked ANNE WALLACE. We

INCLUDE the two new graves freshly dug beside it, and see

the mourners gathered before them. The sight of the boy,

standing alone in front of the graves of his dead mother, as

the bodies of his father and brother are lowered with ropes

into the ground beside her, has all of the neighbors shaken.

The local parish PRIEST drones mechanically in Latin.

The farmers who were secretly gathered in Malcolm Wallace's

kitchen the previous night are now glancing at William; but

no one is anxious to adopt a grieving, a rebellious boy.

Behind MacClannough are his wife and two daughters; his

youngest is barely four, not half William's age; she's a

beautiful girl with long auburn hair, and she clings to her

own mother's hand, as if the open graves are the mouths of

death and might suck her parents in too.

With the final Amen, the neighbors drift from the graveside,

pulling their Children along, to give William a last moment

of private grief before the grave diggers cover the bodies.

The boy stands alone over the open graves, his heart so

shattered that he can scarcely cry; a single tear makes its

way down his face. And the tiny girl feels for William in a

way that the adults cannot. From the ground she pulls a

Scottish thistle, moves to the softly weeping William and

places the beautiful wild blossom in his hand.

William looks up and their young eyes meet; her sad blue

eyes hold William's as the grave diggers cover the bodies.

Then a lone, mounted figure appears at the crest of the hill

above them. Tall, thin and angular, in black clerical garb,

he looks like the grim reaper.

The girl hurries back to her mother's side; everyone watches

in silence as the figure rides down to them. He is ARGYLE

WALLACE. He looks like a human buzzard, his face craggy,

permanently furious.

Argyle glowers at the man, dismounts, and glares at William.

William stares up at this frightening figure. They are

interrupted by the ominous sound of approaching horses; a

dozen mounted English soldiers, armed with lances, are

approaching. Argyle rattles to the priest...

The soldiers ride right in among the mourners and stare down

from their saddles, haughty, menacing, their LEADER brusque.

Outmaneuvered, the leader reins his horse away. Several of

the farmers spit on the ground. Argyle glares at them.

INT. THE KITCHEN - NIGHT

William and Argyle are sitting at the table, eating. Argyle

has laid out a proper meal, with exact place settings.

Argyle sits down and begins to dine with the boy.

Argyle pushes his food away; he has no appetite now.

INT. WILLIAM'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Argyle knows nothing about tucking a boy in bed; he stands

awkwardly idle as William scrubs his face at the washstand

and crawls into bed.

Argyle grunts and starts out. Then he stops, turns back,

leans down over William... and with great tenderness the

grizzled old uncle kisses his nephew on his hair.

INT. THE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Argyle sits by the hearth, staring at the embers. He holds

the huge broadsword that belonged to his brother. He looks

at the handle, like a cross. He whispers...

Tears of grief spill down the old man's cheeks.

INT. THE HANGING BARN - IN WILLIAM'S DREAM

Once again the boy stands in the doorway of the barn, looking

at the garish, hanged faces in his nightmare. Then a mangled

hand comes from behind him and grasps his shoulder, William

gasps, but the hand holds him gently. He turns to see his

father, and his brother! They are wounded, bloody, but they

smile at him; they're alive! Weeping in joy, William reaches

to hug them, but his father stretches forth a forbidding

hand.

William keeps reaching out helplessly. His father and brother

move past him to the hanged knights. Two empty nooses are

there. Before the boy's weeping eyes they put their heads

into the nooses, and hoist themselves up.

William's grief explodes; his tears erupt and

HE WAKES IN HIS BEDROOM

tears flooding down his face. A dream! Still upset, still

grieving, he gets up and goes looking for his uncle.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

William moves down to the room where his uncle would be

sleeping. He opens the door. The bed has been slept in --

but his uncle is not there. He moves downstairs to

THE KITCHEN

But his uncle is not there either. Then William hears a

strange, haunting sound-distant, carried by the wind. He

moves to the window and sees only moonlight. He opens the

window and hears it more clearly: bagpipes. William lights a

candle and throws open the door. Wind rushes in, blowing out

his candle. But he hears the pipes, louder in the wind.

EXT. WALLACE HOUSE - NIGHT

William is barefoot and in only his nightshirt; but the sound

of the pipes is growing louder. He moves through the

moonlight, drawn toward -- the graveyard! He stops as he

realizes this, then forces himself on.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT

William moves to the top of the hill where his ancestors are

buried, and discovers a haunting scene: two dozen men, the

farmer/warriors of his neighborhood, are gathered in kilts --

and among them, a core of bagpipers. The pipes wail an ancient

Scottish dirge, a tune of grief and redemption, a melody

known to us as "Amazing Grace." Uncle Argyle has heard them

and walked out too; he stands at the fringes of the

torchlight, still holding the massive broadsword. He glances

down, noticing William as the boy moves up beside him. William

whispers...

The farmers file by the graveside, crossing themselves, each

whispering his own private prayer. Argyle whispers, half to

William, and half to himself...

William takes the sword from his uncle, and tries to lift

it.

Slowly, Argyle takes the sword back.

He taps William on the temple with the tip of his finger.

With an expert's easy fluidity, he lifts the huge sword. It

glistens in the torchlight. The music plays, the notes hanging

in the air, swirling in the Scottish breeze as if rising

towards the stars...

EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

William and his uncle ride off in a farm wagon. William has

a bundle of clothes in his lap, and glances at his uncle as

if afraid of his disapproval if he looks back. But he does

glance back just once, to see the deserted farmhouse.

INT. WESTMINSTER ABBEY - ROYAL WEDDING - DAY

Amid the scarlet and ermine robes of officiating lords, with

gemstones sparkling everywhere, we hear...

LONGSHANKS, King of England, stands in the jeweled light of

the ancient Abbey. Known as Longshanks because of the spindly

legs that make him almost seven feet tall, he has a hawk's

nose and a snake's eyes, punctuating a face of distinct

cruelty. Historians of his day considered him and the line

of Plantagenets from which he came to be devil worshipers.

GENEVIEVE, a nineteen-year-old virgin of stupendous beauty

moves down the aisle, the light in her face outshining her

blindingly white wedding gown. As she reaches the altar her

hands tremble, but she maintains her poise and control.

She looks toward EDWARD, Prince of Wales. Pampered young men

surround him as his retinue. He takes her hand coldly and

goes through the ceremony under his father's stare.

The ceremony concluding, attendants lift back the bride's

veil. Her wedding day, the ultimate moment -- and Prince

Edward ignores her, to turn back to his friends. But prompted

by one of the sour lords, he leans over and pecks his new

Princess on the cheek. For an instant, we see in her eyes

that her heart is dying. But she keeps her poise.

CLOSE - A MAP OF THE BRITISH ISLES

Longshanks' narrow finger jabs Scotland.

We are in the --

INT. ROYAL ENGLISH PALACE - DAY

Longshanks is being listened to by his advisors, all in the

outrageous splendor of royal military dress, and all deathly

afraid of him.

He punches the map, then sees the Princess enter softly.

Longshanks' eyes expand in fury; it is frightening to see.

He spins back toward his generals. Ignored, the princess

settles silently onto the cushions of the window seat.

One OLD ADVISOR speaks up hesitantly.

Longshanks glares at him, but takes the point. The wheels

grind in his brain; his dark eyes falling on the Princess,

he is inspired.

INT. PRINCE EDWARD'S ROYAL APARTMENTS - DAY

The prince and a muscular young friend, PHILLIP, are stripped

to the waist and fencing. They pay no attention to the

KNOCK, or to the Princess as she enters. She watches them --

they are dancing more than fencing. Edward loses his sword;

it clatters to the polished floor. He looks up at his wife,

as if angry at her for having seen his clumsiness.

But Edward and his friend are fencing again, the clanging of

their blunted swords so loud that she can't hear herself.

Edward loses his weapon again, and whirls on her.

For an instant, anger flares into her eyes. She glances at

Edward, and at the young man with him, then lowers her eyes

and starts to back out. But Edward has noticed.

She stops, but does not raise her eyes.

He lifts his hand and draws his friend Phillip to his side.

Still the Princess does not lift her eyes.

She lifts her eyes. But she could not brace herself enough

for what she sees: Edward nuzzling Phillip, the prince's

bare chest to his muscular friend's bare back, both men

glistening with sweat and sexual excitement.

The Princess's eyes quiver... but she does not look away.

She starts to leave, as quietly as she came. But her husband

calls after her.

She closes the door softly, on her husband and his lover.

ESTABLISHING COUNCIL - DAY

The picturesque heart of Scotland, with its CASTLE on a fairy

tale plateau above the Firth of Forth.

INT. EDINBURGH CASTLE - DAY

The nobles are gathered around a huge table. They rise at

the entrance of young ROBERT THE BRUCE, a handsome young

man, full of intelligence and power.

Robert strides to his seat in the center of the table, and

the others settle in respectfully. MORNAY, another young

warrior, gives him a bow, as does CRAIG, a grizzled noble.

EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE, AT THE EDGE OF TOWN - DAY

Flutes and dancing; laughter and garlands; village families

have gathered for a wedding celebration -- we see the happy

bride and groom. Farmers cart in fresh bread and hoops of

cheese; villagers arrive with casks of beer or strings of

smoked fish.

And watching the people are ubiquitous English soldiers,

battlescarred veterans with missing eyes and ears.

Riding along the road comes William Wallace. Grown now, a

man. He sits his horse as if born there, his back straight,

his hands relaxed on the reins. He has a look of lean, rippled

power. He looks dangerous.

And the soldiers notice him, nudging each other as he passes.

He carries a dead wild goose hanging across his saddle; he

stops his horse at the edge of the clearing and surveys the

scene. Farmers are roasting a pig; women are comparing

handiwork; young men are tossing huge stones in the

traditional Highland games -- and everyone is noticing

William's arrival, especially the farm women with daughters

of marriageable age.

Among those watching William arrive is Campbell, grown older

now; and with his old rebel friend, MacClannough. William

dismounts and ties his horse to a willow. One of the English

SOLDIERS shoves William from behind.

William's eyes fix themselves on the soldier.

His buddies, enjoying their role as intimidators, grab the

bird and begin to search it for evidence.

They don't believe that -- but they can't find any puncture

wound on the bird. William reaches his hand out for the return

of the bird. The soldiers drop it onto the ground.

Slowly, William picks it up, and heads into the clearing.

The farmers watch him come.

Among those noticing William's arrival, but pretending not

to, is MARION MacCLANNOUGH, grown now into a stunning young

woman; her long auburn hair reminds us of those years long

ago; she wears it the same way, straight and full down her

back. Her dress is plain, like the grass that surrounds a

wildflower. She's the most beautiful girl in the village,

maybe in all of Scotland, and the soldiers who hassled William

notice her too.

William reaches the food table and contributes his goose to

the feast. FARM WOMEN eye him; he nodes to one.

The daughter mentioned is missing teeth. William nods to

her. It's impossible for him to giver her a smile as bright

as her hopes, and she lowers her head in disappointment. But

then raises her face in surprise as William takes her hand

and gives her a respectful bow.

He moves away from the table, passing through the crowd like

a stranger. Then he glances toward the knot of girls. He

sees Marion. She sees him, then looks away. Do they remember

each other? He moves toward her; she is shy, her eyes

downcast, but then she raises them and looks at him.

They move closer and closer together. Just as they are about

to reach each other, a huge round stone THUMPS to the earth

at Williams' feet.

He looks up to see one of Marion's suitors -- the broad,

muscled young man who has just tossed the stone in William's

way. Now everybody's looking to see how William will handle

the challenge. He tries to move around, but the guy cuts him

off. Then William thinks he recognizes the big red-head.

It is his old friend, but Hamish won't admit it, or be put

off from the challenge. He points to the huge stone.

He taps his temple. Hamish stretches out his hand, as if to

show William something in his palm.

With a sudden movement, he slams his fist into William's

jaw, dropping him. A few men move to interfere, but Campbell,

MacClannough, and the other farmers who are the true leaders

here, stop their neighbors from interrupting. Hamish stands

over William, waiting for him to get up.

William stands and hoists the huge stone, eighteen inches in

diameter. Straining with the effort, he lugs the stone to

the line scratched in the rocky field. Beyond the line are

the muddy dents from previous tosses. William takes a run

and heaves the stone. It flies past the other marks in the

field; people are impressed. William looks at Hamish.

Hamish walks out, lifts the stone, and lugs it back to the

line. He takes a run and heaves with a great groan! The stone

flies, passing William's mark by a couple of feet.

People laugh and whistle. William nods, impressed.

William walks to the dent made by Hamish's throw.

Hamish scowls at William, at everybody watching. He lifts

the stone and carries it back to the line. William stands

calmly. Hamish backs up for his run. William yawns.

Hamish backs up a few more feet, for a longer run.

William seems completely unafraid. He leans down, picks up a

small smooth stone and tosses it up in the air casually.

Stung by this show of calm, Hamish takes furious run, and

heaves! The stone flies through the air, just misses William's

head, and buries itself halfway into the earth behind him.

William never flinches. The people cheer.

Hamish is miffed; it's like William won.

William turns, walks double the distance Hamish threw, and

turns and hurls the rock he holds! It whistles through the

air, hits Hamish in the forehead, and drops him like a shot.

Everybody cheers and laughs! They surround William.

William takes a tankard of ale from a farmer, walks over and

tosses the cold liquid into Hamish's face; he wakes, and,

his eyes uncrossing, accepts William's hand, pulling him up.

Grinning, they embrace. MUSIC plays, the dancing begins.

William walks to the knot of young ladies... but passes

Marion, and moves to the girl with the missing teeth.

She's thrilled to accept; they begin to dance.

The musicians interrupt their playing; a group of heavily

armed horsemen, with banners and flying colors, ride up,

reining their horses into the middle of the celebration. In

the middle of the group is an English NOBLEMAN; he is gray,

in his fifties, and stops in front of the BRIDE and groom.

Stewart, father of the BRIDE, lunges forward.

The horsemen point their lances at the unarmed Scots -- who

see that the English soldiers from the village have moved to

the edge of the gathering, as if to dare any resistance.

Even unarmed, Stewart is about to attack -- but the bride

intervenes. She grabs her father and whispers to him. She

moves to her husband and does the same. Holding back tears,

she allows herself to be pulled up behind one of the horsemen.

Marion MacClannough is looking on, sobered by her friend's

courage and sickened by her fate -- and Marion is even more

unsettled as she notices that one of the soldiers, a

particularly nasty looking brute with a scarred face, is

leering at her. William Wallace sees this too.

The noble and his escorts ride away, and as they do it begins

to rain. The celebration destroyed, the Scots gather the

food and disperse to their homes. But Wallace remains,

standing in the downpour, keeping his thoughts to himself.

EXT. THE WALLACE FARMHOUSE - MAGIC HOUR

The farmhouse looks lonely and forlorn. William stands at

the open door, and gazes out at the rain; it leaks on him,

through his roof; he doesn't seem to notice.

EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - MAGIC HOUR

A thatched cottage, lit with a cozy fire, beneath the rain.

A hand KNOCKS on the door, and MacClannough opens it to find

William, on a horse! MacClannough frowns.

Mrs. MacClannough shoulders up beside her husband, and Marion

appears behind her scowling parents.

Marion has grabbed a cloak off the back of the door; she

runs out to hop up behind William, and they gallop away.

THE RIDE - MAGIC HOUR

William and Marion race along the heather, up and down hills,

through swollen streams. The rain stops, as the sun sets;

the Scottish mists lift, revealing stunning natural beauty.

William stops the horse and they look out over it all

together. He speaks, without turning to face her.

He lingers; he wants to say something, or maybe he just

doesn't want the moment to end. Finally he spurs the horse.

EXT. THE MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - NIGHT

They reach the door. William hops off the horse and reaches

up to help her down the moment she touches the ground, they

look into each other's eyes... but the door is snatched open

so quickly by her mother that there is not time for a kiss.

He walks her closer to the door. They turn and look at each

other again. She waits for him to kiss her...

She still hesitates; he isn't going to kiss her. She starts

in, but he grabs her hand. And into it he puts something he

has taken from his pocket; it is wrapped in flannel. He hops

on his horse, glances at her, and gallops away.

She stands in the open doorway; she looks down at what he

left her. She unwraps the flannel; it is a dried thistle,

the one she gave him years before.

EXT. WALLACE FARM - DAY

William is re-thatching the roof of his barn, when he hears

riders approaching, and looks down to see that it is

MacClannough, backed by Campbell and Hamish. Uh-oh.

William goes back to repairing his roof.

Campbell shakes his head and reins his horse away, with

Hamish. MacClannough lingers.

MacClannough rides away. William sits down on the roof, and

looks out at the graves of his father and brother.

EXT. MACCLANNOUGH HOUSE - NIGHT

Outside the half-timbered house, William stands in the shadows

of moonlight and tosses a pebble against the wooden upper

window. Marion opens the shutters and slips out onto the

vines, dropping into William's arms.

Giggling, suppressing laughter, they run to the trees...

SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - NIGHT

Hand in hand through the heather they run, silhouettes along

a ridge, their breath blowing silver clouds in the moonlight,

the Scottish wind whipping through their hair.

They stop at a grove at the edge of a precipice, overlooking

a loch gleaming in the moonlight. So beautiful it's sacred.

He looks at her. They kiss suddenly, so long and hard that

they tumble into the heather, rolling, devouring each other.

Through their passion...

They kiss again...

EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - DAY

Marion moves through the market. English soldiers admire her

as she walks. She stops, looking at white lace and cloth.

William casually passes, poking a note in her basket. Subtly

she withdraws his note, and reads:

INSERT - HIS NOTE

Tonight. By the trees.

EXT. MARION'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Marion slips out of the house and runs to the trees, where

William waits with horses. She fetches a bundle she's stashed

in the crook of a tree, and they mount and ride off.

EXT. RUINS OF AN ANCIENT CHURCH - NIGHT

The church is at the base of the precipice, beside the loch.

INT. THE CHURCH - NIGHT

This ancient Gaelic place of worship has been destroyed by

the occupying army, and yet it looks devoutly holy this way,

lit only by candles and moonlight through the open roof. The

village PRIEST whom we saw at the wedding celebration is

waiting at the altar. Marion steps into the confessional, as

William moves to the altar and kneels in prayer.

Marion emerges; she's changed into the wedding dress she

made from the cloth she bought. William stands and watches

her float down the aisle; his whole life was worth this

moment.

Together, the two lovers turn to the priest.

From within his shirt, William withdraws a strip of cloth

woven in his family tartan. He and Marion each lift a hand

to the priest, and he binds their wrists with the cloth.

From her dress she takes a handmade handkerchief, embroidered

with a thistle to look like the one she first gave him those

years ago.

The Priest waits for them to go on, but neither can; they're

too taken with emotion, looking at each other. The Priest

intones holy phrases...

The lovers kiss. As they break their embrace, a figure

carrying something dark and spiky appears at the broken door

of the church, and William spins as if to attack, but the

Priest catches his arm; they see the man carries bagpipes.

The piper begins to play, and the tune from his primitive

chanter is wispy, ethereal, beautiful. The lovers look into

each other's eyes, as the single melody of the pipes merges

into a swell of music, UNDERSCORING MONTAGE

William and Marion ride the path to the top of the precipice,

where, in the shelter of the grove, they spend their

honeymoon. The MUSIC CONTINUES as, still sweaty from their

love-making, he returns her to her house just before dawn.

She waves from her window, as William rides away, as we

EXT. VILLAGE OF LANARK - DAY

It's Market Day in the village, busy with Highlanders,

merchants of all kinds, and a few special attractions like

jugglers and fortune tellers. Marion moves along a table

full of flowers and fruit... William, concealed behind hanging

baskets, watches her unseen, savoring the beauty of his

beloved, bathing his soul in the sight of her. Then she looks

up and spots him, her smile sudden and luminous, before she

remembers to conceal it. He moves up beside her.

Playfully he pokes his finger under the collar of her dress,

pulling up the strip of checked cloth he gave her at their

wedding, which she now wears hidden around her neck.

Tucking in the cloth strip, she hurries away, smiling.

ANGLE - DRUNKEN ENGLISH SOLDIERS - BY AN ALE CASK - DAY

They spot Marion moving through the fair, glowing, beautiful.

The soldiers smirk at each other; as Marion passes, one of

them grabs her wrist. It's the soldier with the scar, the

one who's been staring at her.

A second drunken SOLDIER pipes up.

The scarred soldier pulls Marion into his big arms; she shoves

him away with surprising strength, and he staggers back, to

the laughter of his friends. Then he snatches her again and

kisses her hard on the lips.

She breaks free and SLAPS him fiercely, hard enough to draw

blood from his mouth. Tasting the trickle, he slings her

down against sacks of grain, and the soldiers are all over

her, pinning her down, ripping her clothes, a full scale

public gang rape. As the townspeople try to move in the three

soldiers waiting their turn at Marion pull their knives,

keep them townspeople back.

He slams his mouth down against hers for a long, awful time,

comes up clawing at her dress to rip it from her body... and

is hit in the face by a rock thrown at great speed!

It takes a moment for the other soldiers to realize what

just happened, and in that instant William is on them. He

wrenches one soldier's arm in a direction it was never meant

to go, breaking the elbow, separating the shoulder, and

slinging the howling soldier into his comrades.

Two of the soldiers leap at William, swinging their short

swords; William ducks, knocking their ale cask into their

knees; William lifts the whole table where they were sitting

and slams it into the faces of two more attackers.

She shouts to warn him that the scarred soldier, now

bloodyfaced, has recovered from the rock and is behind William

with a knife. William sidesteps the first thrust, snatches a

leg from the shattered table and crushes the man's skull.

But there's no time for celebration. There's blood and ale

everywhere, and the fallen soldiers are yelling...

MORE SOLDIERS hear the call and come running, reinforcements

converging from all over the village.

Will sees the horse that pulled the flower cart and throws

Marion up onto its back. He slaps the horse's rump and it

plunges with Marion into the twisting village lanes. William

darts off through the crowd, as the MAGISTRATE and more of

his soldiers arrive -- dozens of them!

William pauses out in the central street of the village,

just long enough to be sure they've spotted him, and darts

into a side lane in the opposite direction Marion went;

William weaves through the narrow streets of the medieval

town, knocking over baskets, jumping carts.

As the soldiers stumble after him, the Magistrate looks down

at his mangled soldiers. The one with the ruptured arm is

lying in agony.

The shout rings through the village; Marion hears it, and

when she sees more soldiers at the far end of the lane she's

trying to take out of town, she urges the horse into an even

narrower back alley. She sees a clear route to freedom...

But the flock of pigeons pecking on the scraps thrown there

behind the shops rise into the horse's face with a sudden

thrashing of wings, and the horse shies against a wall.

Marion controls him, but a flap of her ripped dress has caught

on a crude nail, and as the frightened horse lunges forward

again, she is pulled off its bare back, her dress catching

and ripping at the same time, dropping her hard.

WILLIAM

reaches the edge of the town and slips into the trees by the

river; the soldiers are running every which way, but they've

lost him. Thinking Marion's made it too, William heads deeper

into the trees.

IN THE TOWN, MARION

recovers; her dress has torn free! She starts to get up; but

the soldiers' pikes appear over her, and the magistrate leers.

EXT. THE GROVE AT THE PRECIPICE - DAY

William moves into the shelters of the trees, expecting to

see Marion. He doesn't. He listens; only the rustling of the

wind through the treetops.

Nothing, except the wind.

INT. ROYAL MAGISTRATE'S HEADQUARTERS - DAY

Marion is thrown into a chair and her arms are bound with an

oak staff behind her elbows. She and two dozen soldiers are

in the tavern the English have commandeered.

The Magistrate is a battlescarred veteran, a brutal pragmatist

angry with his CORPORAL.

He studies Marion, her mouth now stuffed with burlap. He

notices the strip of cloth around her neck, and touches the

weave curiously.

EXT. TOWN SQUARE - DAY

The Magistrate and his men bring Marion into the village

center, and tie her to a post of the well. The townspeople

don't want to be near the soldiers, but they hang on the

fringes of the square, too curious to pull away.

He looks down at Marion, her mouth bound, her eyes defiant.

He jerks out his dagger and slices Marion's throat!

Her eyes spring open like a doe's; then she sags, dead. The

townspeople are speechless; even some of the soldiers are

shocked. The Magistrate turns calmly to his men.

LONG SHOT - EXT. THE GROVE AT THE PRECIPICE - DAY

From a distance, we see Hamish approaching the grove, the

same one where he and William played as boys. Hamish moves

reluctantly, forcing himself forward; as he reaches the grove,

William appears, hurrying out to him.

We STAY IN THE LONG SHOT, seeing William asking anxiously

for any news, and seeing Hamish's great shoulders as he tells

him something that makes William step backwards...

EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - DAY

At a barrier across the main road into the center of the

village are twenty professional soldiers, entrenched, fully

armed -- bows, pikes, swords. They hear A HORSE'S SNORT...

THE ENGLISH SOLDIERS' POV - WALLACE, ON HIS HORSE

He has stopped, rock still. The soldiers hush; there is

something unsettling about this man alone, staring at the

twenty of them, as if to steel himself for the butchery.

Wallace raises his sword, screams... and charges!

EXT. VARIOUS ANGLES - LANARK VILLAGE - DAY - THE FIGHT

We FAVOR WALLACE'S SUBJECTIVE POV: the barrier as his horse

pounds toward it, the faces of the enemy soldiers with their

eyes white with fear... They stand to shoot at him with their

bows; the arrows WHISH toward the lens, fly past...

The arrows tear through Wallace's clothes, but don't catch

his flesh. He charges on; his horse LEAPS the barrier as

Wallace simultaneously swings the broadsword -- and he's

more than an expert: the tip, at the end of a huge arc, nearly

breaks the sound barrier and the blade bites through the

corporal's helmet, taking off the upper half of his head!

The soldiers try to rally, to shoot him in the back as his

horse leaps over them. One of them has sighted William's

back... But Hamish and his father crash into them! It's a

wild fight; old Campbell takes an arrow through the shoulder

but keeps hacking with his sword; Hamish batters down two

men -- and more Scots arrive! They overwhelm the soldiers.

WALLACE RACES THROUGH THE VILLAGE - FAVORING HIS POV

He dodges obstacles in the narrow streets -- chickens, carts,

barrels. Soldiers pop up; the first he gallops straight over;

the next he whacks forehand, like a polo player; the next

chops down on his left side; every time he swings the

broadsword, a man dies.

Wallace gallops on; his farmer neighbors, and people from

the village, follow in his wake.

EXT. IN THE VILLAGE - DAY

The Magistrate hears the APPROACHING SHOUTS. He and thirty

more of his men are barricaded around the village square.

The see Wallace gallop into sight; but he stops, then heads

down a side street.

The Magistrate and his men don't like this; where did he go?

Which way will he come from? And then they hear the horses,

and see the other Scots, at the head of the main street. The

soldiers unleash a volley of arrows at them.

They are loading to fire again when Wallace runs in -- on

foot! -- and cuts down two soldiers! The other Scots charge!

The startled soldiers break and run in every direction.

The Magistrate, abandoned, runs too. Wallace pursues.

Not far along a twisting lane, the bulky Magistrate falters.

He turns to fight, and Wallace slashes away his sword.

IN THE TOWN SQUARE

As the Scots see Wallace, they break off pursuing the English

soldiers and stop to watch; dragging the Magistrate by his

hair, Wallace hauls him back into the village square, slams

him against the well, and stands over him with heaving lungs

and wild eyes, staring at Marion's murderer.

Wallace's eyes shift, falling on

THE STAIN OF BLOOD

Marion's blood, in a dark dry splash by the wall of the well,

the stain dripping down onto the dirt of the street. Wallace

spins, jerks back the Magistrate's head, and cuts his throat

with the sword.

ON THE OTHER SCOTS

Silenced by what they've just seen and done. On old Campbell's

face is a look of reverence, and awe.

William staggers a few steps, and collapses to his knees.

And then not just the Scottish farmers but the townspeople

too begin a strange, Hi-Lo chant.

William's wild eyes slowly regain their focus. And there in

the dirt beside the well, he sees the severed cloth strip he

gave to Marion, now stained with her blood. He lifts it,

crushes it in his hand, as the Highlanders chant for war.

EXT. LANARK VILLAGE - NIGHT

The villagers are still excited by what just happened; at

the blacksmith's forge, men tend to Campbell's wound...

They obey, then take a glowing poker from the fire and run

it through Campbell's shoulder, where the arrow went. There

is a terrible SIZZLE, and Campbell reacts to the pain.

Campbell looks down at his left hand. His thumb is missing!

Wallace is sitting alone nearby, staring at nothing. Hamish

moves over and puts a hand on his shoulder. Wallace looks at

his friend, and looks away; killing the Magistrate did not

bring Marion back.

SHOUTS of alarm: ARMED MEN are coming! The farmers scramble

for their weapons, ready to fight; even Campbell jumps up;

but what they see coming out of the darkness are twenty more

farmers, with hayhooks, knives, axes, anything they could

find for weapons. Their leader is MacGREGOR.

MacGregor leads his men into the circle of rebels.

They all look at Wallace.

EXT. ENGLISH MILITARY STRONGHOLD - NIGHT

Furious preparations: armorers pound breastplates, hone

spears, grind swords in a shower of sparks. The garrison is

led by BOTTOMS, the English lord who claimed the right of

prima noctes. Now he shouts to his scurrying soldiers.

Tell him that I will hang five rebels for every good

Englishman killed! FORM FOR MARCH!

The troops begin to scramble into the courtyard. At the same

time, the messenger gallops to the gate and nods for the

keepers to open it. They pull up the chains and the heavy

gate rises. The messenger spurs his horse to gallop through --

and is hit in the chest with an axe!

The Scots, hidden just outside the gate, come pouring through,

led by Wallace! Arrows pick soldiers from their perches,

Scots drop over the wall; the surprise is so complete that

it's over almost without a fight. Lord Bottoms looks around

in confusion...

Scots drag Lord Bottoms off his horse; an arrow in a flexed

bow jabs right up to his eye, the archer ready to drive the

shaft through Bottom's eye socket and into his brain; but

Wallace's hand closes on the archer's fingers -- and Bottoms

sees that the archer at the other end of the arrow shaft is

none other than the Highland farmgirl he forced into his bed

on her wedding night. Beside her is her husband, holding a

scythe, red with English blood.

The point of Wallace's sword jumps beneath the Lord's chin.

The green eyes of the defiled highland bride flash fire.

William takes his hand from her bow and looks at her, grief

for Marion in his eyes; for the sake of that she does not

release the string.

Hamish extends the reins of the Lord's thoroughbred.

He nods to a bony nag hitched next to a glue pot.

As the Scots cheer, Wallace throws Lord Bottoms onto the

nag's back and slaps the horse's rear. IT shambles away,

followed by the English survivors, as the Scots chant...

CLOSE - A GRAVESTONE - EXT. HIGHLANDS - DAY

The marker is carved with the name MARION MacCLANNOUGH, and

beneath her name A THISTLE is chiseled into the stone.

Bagpipes wail like banshees and the Priest who married Marion

and William now mutters ancient prayers as her body, wrapped

in burial canvas, is lowered into the earth, under the sad

eyes of those who just fought in the battle.

Opposite William stands old MacClannough; he stares across

the open hole that accepts the body of his daughter, his

eyes full of pain, and then staggers away.

Wallace kneels at the graveside in unspeakable grief. From

within his shirt he withdraws the embroidered handkerchief

she gave him, and the bloodstained strip of cloth he gave

her. He places the strip over her heart, and as the

gravediggers fill the hole her returns the handkerchief to

its spot over his own heart.

EXT. LONDON PALACE - DAY

Prince Edward is in his garden, playing the medieval version

of croquet with his friend. The Princess, ignored, sits

watching. Longshanks marches through the game, furious.

Longshanks slaps his son, knocking him down among the colored

balls and wickets. Everyone gasps, stunned.

Longshanks jerks him to his feet.

Longshanks grabs his son by the throat.

The king leaves. The friends of the humiliated Prince hurry

to him and lift him; as the Princess moves to him too...

He slaps her! Her personal guards, Frenchmen in distinctive

uniforms, jump from their seats at the edge of the garden,

but the Princess raises a hand to show she needs no

assistance, and curtseys to Edward, who shouts --

As Edward marches off with his entourage, NICOLETTE, a

beautiful raven-haired Handmaiden, rushes to the Princess,

who is wobbly, hurt more than she let show. Nicolette whispers

to her in French, with subtitles...

INT. BRUCE'S CASTLE - BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

Robert the Bruce is in bed with a young Nordic beauty with

vacant blue eyes. She drowses; but the lovemaking has not

defused the restlessness of Robert's spirit. He lies on his

stomach, turned away from her on the bed. Stirring, she kisses

his neck; but he doesn't respond.

But he is numb as she nuzzles him again. She sags back, and

he still stares away, lost in thought. Realizing her hurt,

he explains...

She looks at him blankly.

CLOSE - ROBERT THE BRUCE

On his FACE as he moves grimly up a dark castle staircase.

He follows a servant who carries a candle against the gloom.

They reach a door, which the servant unlocks. Young Robert

takes the candle, and enters --

A DARKENED ROOM

Robert wills himself forward, and places the candle on a

table in the center of the room. A SHUFFLE in the dark; then

moving into the light is a LEPER whose once-noble features

are decaying with the disease. Isolated in his disfiguration,

he looks at his visitor -- his son -- with the eyes of the

condemned. Young Robert forces himself not to look away.

The old man thinks, and points a half finger at his son.

Young Bruce rises heavily, and moves to the door.

With a last long look at his father, Robert leaves.

EXT. SCOTLAND - MONTAGE - DAY

-- Troops ride through the countryside, intimidating and

questioning civilians; all refuse to talk.

-- Wallace's house burns, as soldiers dig up the graves of

his father and brother, and scatter their bones to dogs.

-- The English search through the woods, finding nothing.

EXT. WALLACE LANDS - NIGHT

William and Hamish ride, to see the damage. They find the

smoking ruins, and the defiled family graves.

William is struck by an awful, urgent thought...

EXT. UNDERBRUSH NEAR MARION'S GRAVE - DUSK

We open on Marion's grave, with the thistle-carved marker,

looking peaceful; but up the hill in the underbrush, English

soldiers wait in ambush. Edgy, they perk up at the sound of

muffled hoofbeats -- then their eyes bug as a cloaked figure --

Wallace -- suddenly looms up behind them, galloping and

swirling fire! He hurls burning torches into the clustered

soldiers, setting some of them on fire!

MEANWHILE, HAMISH has crawled to Marion's grave and is digging

frantically. The new dirt parts easily and he pulls the

shrouded body out, cringing with the effort.

MORE SOLDIERS rush from behind the rocks at the far side of

the graveyard. Wallace charges them, driving them back. He

grabs the reins of Hamish's horse, hidden among trees, and

gallops to him.

Hamish hands the shrouded body up to William and bounds into

the saddle of his own horse. They spur the horses and ride

away, William clutching Marion's shrouded body to his chest.

EXT. SECRET GROVE ON THE PRECIPICE - NIGHT

William dismounts, stretching the body gently on the ground.

Hamish dismounts too, with the spade he used to dig up the

old grave. He sees the emotion on William's face.

Hamish puts a hand on his friend's shoulder, then quietly

leads the horses away. William starts to dig...

LATER IN THE GROVE

William sits looking at the new grave, covered with leaves --

completely hidden. He touches his hand to the earth.

EXT. WOODS - BY THE STREAM - NIGHT

Hamish is waiting as William comes out of the grove. There

is nothing to say. They mount their horses and ride away, as

the MUSIC of William and Marion's love haunts us...

EXT. WOODS - ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

Wallace and his inner circle hare huddled around a small

fire. Other highlanders guard the perimeters. Old Campbell

is lovingly honing the broadswords to razor edges and sharing

a whiskey jug with Hamish, who stares at the fire. Wallace

is using a stick to draw diagrams in the dirt.

At a loss, Wallace looks up at the sky. HE SEES: the trees

stretching into the night like spikes to skewer the stars.

They look to see a half dozen new volunteers being led in,

blindfolded. When the guides remove the blindfolds, the new

recruits see Wallace and rush to him, bowing.

As he reaches into his cloak, both Hamish and Campbell

instantly draw their swords and put the points to his neck.

Carefully, Faudron pulls out a beautiful tartan scarf, and

replaces Wallace's tattered old one.

A loud voice interrupts...

They all look at a slender, handsome young man, STEPHEN, who

is talking to himself -- or more accurately, seems to listen

to some unheard voice, then answer it...

Stephen whips a dagger from his sleeve and puts it at

Campbell's throat.

Wallace jerks his sword to the Irishman's throat, and grins.

Stephen grins, and happily tucks away the dagger.

Wallace shakes his head and moves back to the fire, as the

sentries take the newcomers to find their own spaces.

EXT. SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

A column of English light cavalry -- a hundred riders --

moves through the picturesque beauty of the Highlands.

English LORD DOLECROFT is in command, wearing a hat with a

pompous white plume. UP AHEAD, the English SCOUT sees five

Scots, including Hamish, walking out of the forest. The Scots

run; the Scout rides back to Dolecroft.

The English force charges off. Hamish and his men changed

direction but the English spot them crossing a hilltop and

ride after them. The Scots run for their lives; the English

horses gallop. The Scots run down one slope, up another; the

English follow, find their horses stumbling, and see...

But as they move toward the firm ground, fifty Scots appear

on the crest of the hill. Hamish leads them, smiling.

Dolecroft wheels and looks to his rear; Wallace appears there,

with fifty more, and more Scots appear to the left and right

of the English, who are surrounded in the bog. Too late,

Dolecroft realizes his blunder. Wallace lifts his broadsword,

screams, and leads the charge...

EXT. SCOTTISH WOODS - DAY

The Scots are moving through deep woods; they are laden with

the booty they took from the English cavalry: extra weapons,

clothing, food -- and one man even wears the late Dolecroft's

plumed hat. Wallace is leading them, traveling with his heavy

sheathed broadsword across his shoulders.

They collapse to the leaves and loam, greedily squeezing

water from sheep belly canteens.

INT. STIRLING CASTLE - DAY

LORD PICKERING, English commander, is handed news of the

disaster. He reads the message, and pales.

EXT. SCOTTISH WOODS - NIGHT

The moon is high above the Scots, encamped for the night.

Most everyone is sleeping, but William sits leaning against

a tree, lost in lonely thoughts. Suddenly William freezes; a

shaft of moonlight illuminates a cloaked woman standing twenty

feet ahead of him. Something about her is familiar -- and

then she pulls off the hood, revealing her auburn hair,

cascading in the moonlight... It is Marion!

Joy explodes on his face, and he runs to her, but stops before

he touches her, as if she might evaporate.

William clutches at Marion, but his arms can't enclose her.

HE WAKES

lying on his new tartan, in camp, with Hamish shaking him,

William's arms clutched empty to his chest.

Wallace jumps up, hearing the DISTANT BARKING that alarmed

Hamish. Stephen, the new Irish recruit, races up.

Shoving groups of men in different directions, Wallace then

takes off. His group is about a dozen; they race through the

woods, dodging trees, running aimlessly. They stop and listen.

The BARKS are getting closer.

Again they divide, and race in different directions.

But no matter how they run and dodge, the BARKS grow nearer.

We INTERCUT with the approaching of the dogs -- a large PACK

OF HOUNDS, with keepers like on a fox hunt, and behind the

dogs, Lord Pickering, with his soldiers, prepared for a long

chase, cloaked against the wet darkness, carrying torches.

Wallace and others pause, hear the dogs, and run again, in a

new direction. The hounds are relentless. Wallace's group is

down to Hamish, Stephen, and Faudron.

Faster now, faster. The barks are getting very close.

Wallace and his friends are starting to panic. The blood

beats in their ears, their breath scalds their lungs. And we

MOVE IN on Wallace's eyes. He stops, gasping.

Wallace pulls out his dagger...

THE DOGS

bark frantically now; they smell a kill; they tug so hard at

their leashes that the handlers are almost dragged along.

The soldiers grip their weapons, ready to take their

prisoners. They burst into the little clearing; the dogs

find a body, stabbed, his throat cut; the dogs plunge their

snouts into the gore, yipping wildly. The handlers must fight

furiously to tear the dogs from the body.

Lord Pickering approaches the body and looks down. It is

Faudron, mangled now but clearly identifiable -- with the

scarf he gave William, in place of William's own, tucked

into his shirt.

As Pickering rants, his men look at the darkness all around.

And just as the realization hits Pickering that he can't

pursue Wallace any further, a cloaked figure mixed in among

his men leans in from behind him to whisper...

Pickering's eyes go wide, then roll back as Stephen's dagger

slides expertly through his back ribs and into his heart. As

Pickering falls and his men realize what has happened, Stephen

has already run back into the trees.

Pickering's men freeze at this sudden turn of events. Even

the dogs whimper, picking up the rising fear of the men around

them. Then from the darkness all around them comes a chorus

of demonic, bloodcurdling yells --

Three wild men tear out of the darkness from different

directions, their swords slashing. Pickering's men panic and

run, their dogs yelping, and the other soldiers, evident by

their torches, fell with them in all directions.

Wallace, Hamish and Stephen are left alone in the heart of

the woods, howling, barking like dogs, snarling like wolves --

and then laughing like hyenas!

They laugh again; then Wallace's laughter leaks away, and he

stares into the trees, where he saw Marion in his dream.

VARIOUS SHOTS - THE STORY SPREADS THROUGH SCOTLAND...

Two men are talking in A VILLAGE...

The same tale is exchanged by two farmers AT A CROSSROADS...

The tale is repeated IN A TAVERN...

And the rumors are discussed even INSIDE THE PALACE GROUNDS

IN LONDON, where the Prince and his friends are trying on

elaborate attire presented them by fawning tailors, and the

Princess, ignored by her husband, strolls and chats with her

Handmaiden, Nicolette (in subtitled French).

The Princess blushes, whacks her with her fan, and smiles.

The Princess is pained at such cruelty; Nicolette warms to

share the juicy gossip...

EXT. SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - DAY

A Highlander, a RUNNER, slips like a shadow up the hillside,

to a circle of ancient monoliths. There, hidden among the

stone pillars, he finds Wallace and his band resting.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Wallace rides down the road, followed by his band. As they

pass people on the road, the women, the children, all cheer.

At a crossroads, more of Wallace's men join them, in clusters.

One group carries something long, encased in wool covers.

Farmers in the field, blacksmiths at their forges, leave

their work and uncover their inevitable weapons and run after

the riders. They put on their forbidden tartans, kiss their

wives and head off to fight.

EXT. STIRLING FIELD - DAY

Stirling Castle perches on a hill high above a grassy field,

cut in half by a river, spanned by an old wooden bridge.

SCOTTISH NOBLES have gathered on a smaller hill overlooking

the field; they wear gleaming armor, with plumes, sashes and

banners, and are attended by squires and grooms.

The mists of morning shroud most of the field. But from the

opposite side of the bridge they hear the CLATTERING of a

huge army moving forward. LOCHLAN, a noble, gallops to Mornay.

THE COMMON SCOTTISH SOLDIERS

are wearing padded leather shirts, and carry pikes and

daggers. As through the mists they see the numbers arrayed

against them, a YOUNG SOLDIER tugs at a grizzled VETERAN.

He lowers his pike and starts to desert. At first one-by-one

and then in clumps, more highlanders follow.

THE NOBLES see the desertion.

Then, riding into the mob of men, comes Wallace, followed by

his friends. He's striking, charismatic, his powerful arms

bare, his chest covered not in armor but a commoner's leather

shirt, and unlike the heavy knights on their armored horses,

Wallace rides a swift horse, like he was born on it.

The entire Scottish army watches in fascination as Wallace

and his men ride through them, toward the command hill. The

soldiers whisper among themselves...

The common soldiers, already having broken ranks, cluster up

the hill to see the confrontation. As Wallace and his captains

reach the nobles, Stephen laughs.

Wallace reins his horse around to face the mob of sullen

men, now frightened, ready to desert. We play this picture,

Wallace sitting his horse, looking down in awe at this thing

that has grown beyond anyone's imagination.

He glances at his friends: Campbell, Hamish, Stephen.

They've got no suggestions, they're just as awed as he is.

Wallace raises his hand, and the army falls silent.

Many laugh -- all get the point.

Down on the plain, English emissaries in all their regal

finery gallop over the bridge, under a banner of truce.

He dismounts, and draws his sword.

Slowly, the chant begins, and builds...

BAGPIPERS play, pulling the mob back into companies. But

through the lifting mists they see the overwhelming enemy

army. Hamish, Campbell and Stephen move up beside William.

Campbell, Hamish and Stephen ride off. Mornay reins his horse

over, lifts the reins of Wallace's horse, and extends them

to him: an invitation to join the pre-battle talks.

Wallace mounts up and rides out with the Scottish nobles to

meet the English contingent.

OUT ON THE FIELD, THE TWO GROUPS OF RIDERS

meet like the captains of football teams before the kickoff.

CHELTHAM, head of the English contingent, glares at Wallace.

Wallace pulls his broadsword and snaps it at Cheltham, whose

eyes flash in disbelief at the bad manners.

Cheltham barks at the Scottish nobles...

The outraged Englishman gallops back to his lines.

They return to the Scottish lines. Wallace dismounts where

his men are breaking out new 14-foot spears. Hamish, eyebrows

raised, looks expectantly at Wallace; Wallace nods.

LORD TALMADGE, AT HIS COMMAND POST

The husky English commander's blood boils from Cheltham's

report. Before he can respond, they see WALLACE'S SPEARMEN

taking up a position on the far side of the bridge. Suddenly

the Scots turn and lift their kilts and moon the English!

Cheltham spurs his horse to form up the attack...

EXT. THE FIELD BELOW STIRLING CASTLE - DAY

The English army moves forward toward the bridge. It's so

narrow that only a single file of riders can move across it

at any one time. The English heavy cavalry, two hundred

knights, cross uncontested, and form up on the other side.

WITH WALLACE AND THE SCOTS

Things look terrible. Stephen turns to William.

ON THE ENGLISH SIDE

Talmadge sees the Scots doing nothing.

Our cavalry will ride them down like grass. Get the infantry

across so they can finish the slaughter!

The English leaders shout orders and keep their men moving

across the bridge. Talmadge gestures for the attack flag.

THE CAVALRY ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE BRIDGE

The English knights see the signal banners, telling them to

attack. They take the lances from their squires, and lower

the visors of their helmets. Proud, plumed, glimmering; they

look invincible. Their huge horses, themselves draped in

scarlet and purple, look like tanks. The knights charge!

Their hooves THUNDER; the horses are so heavy the ground

literally shakes with the charge.

The Scots stand and watch them come on. It's difficult to

imagine the courage this takes; from the POV OF THE SCOTTISH

LINES we see the massive horses boring in... we feel the

RISING THUNDER of the charge, closer, closer...

Wallace moves to the front of the lead group of Scots.

The Scots snap their 14-foot spears straight up in unison.

Now the spearmen snap the spears forward in ranks, the first

line of men bracing their spears at an angle three feet above

the ground, the men behind them bracing theirs at a five

foot level, the men behind that bracing at seven feet.

The English knights have never seen such a formation. Their

lances are useless and it's too late to stop! The momentum

that was to carry the horses smashing through the men on

foot now becomes suicidal force; knights and horses impale

themselves on the long spears like beef on skewers.

TALMADGE

can see it; but worse is the SOUND, the SCREAMS OF DYING MEN

AND HORSES, carried to him across the battlefield.

WALLACE AND HIS MEN

are protected, behind a literal wall of fallen chargers and

knights. Wallace draws his broadsword and leads his swordsmen

out onto the field, attacking the knights that are still

alive. Most are off their horses; a few have managed to pull

up their mounts. Wallace and his men are so much more mobile

than the knights; the field runs with blood.

Wallace faces Talmadge in the distance.

TALMADGE is even more enraged -- and his judgment is gone.

Talmadge himself gallops forward.

WALLACE smiles. He grabs Hamish.

Hamish hurries off with the message.

The English infantry keeps moving across the little bridge.

The Scottish nobles watch from their positions on horseback.

They have a few dozen mounted riders, none heavily armored.

Hamish hurries up.

Mornay leads his riders away.

LORD TALMADGE

sees the Scottish nobles ride off, and shouts to Cheltham...

He drives half his army across the river.

WALLACE

lifts his sword.

He charges down the hill...

THE FIGHT AT STIRLING BRIDGE - VARIOUS SHOTS

The Scots follow Wallace on foot, charging into the English.

The English leaders are stunned by the ferocious attack.

The English leaders try to herd more of their footsoldiers

onto the bridge, which only hams them up. Meanwhile, on the

other side of the bridge, Wallace and his charging men slam

into the English infantry with wild fury. The English fall

back on each other, further blocking the bridge.

UP ON THE HILLTOP

The nobles look back with grudging admiration.

With rising desire to join the bandwagon, the nobles spur...

DOWN ON THE PLAIN, Wallace and the attacking men drive the

English back, killing as they go. The Scots reach the bridge

itself. The waters below it run red with blood.

Talmadge has begun to panic.

ON THE BRIDGE

the Scots are carving their way through the English soldiers;

nothing can stop them. Wallace is relentless; each time he

swings, a head flies, or an arm. Hamish and Stephen fight

beside him, swinging the broadsword with both hands. Old

Campbell loses his shield in the grappling; an English

swordsman whacks at him and takes off his left hand, but

Campbell batters him to the ground with his right, and stabs

him. Reaching the English side of the bridge, the Scots begin

to build a barrier with the dead bodies.

The English are not without courage. Cheltham leads a

desperate counterattack. The Scots make an impenetrable

barrier of slashing blades. Still Cheltham keeps coming;

Wallace hits him with a vertical slash that parts his helmet,

his hair, and his brain.

TALMADGE has seen enough; he gallops away. The remaining

English General tries to save the army.

The English try to form up; but the Scottish horsemen, fording

the river high upstream, come crashing into the English flank

and ride over the surprised English infantry.

AT THE BRIDGE, WALLACE

sees the Scottish nobles attacking. The English soldiers are

in utter panic, running and being cut down on all sides.

And the Scottish soldiers taste something Scots have not

tasted for a hundred years: victory. Even while finishing

off the last of the English soldiers, they begin their highlow

chant... Even the noblemen take up the chant!

Wallace looks around at the aftermath of the battle: bodies

on the field; soldiers lying impaled; stacks of bodies on

the bridge; the bridge slick with blood.

Before it can all sink in, William is lifted on the shoulders

of his men.

INT. CASTLE - GREAT HALL - DAY

William kneels before one of Scotland's ancient elders, who

lifts a silver sword and dubs William's shoulders.

William rises and faces the Great Hall, crowded with hundreds

of new admirers, as well as his old friends in their new

clothes and armor. The crowd chants --

Wallace lifts his eyes, taking it all in. At the rear of the

hall is a balcony, backed by a magnificent sunlit stained

glass window, and in the center of its rainbow corona he

sees a familiar form: Marion, so real to him in this moment

of triumph that he can see her, glowing like an angel, in a

gown worthy of the occasion. But the illusion won't last; in

the blink of an eye she is gone, and Wallace hears the chant,

and fingers the cloth she gave him.

INT. SCOTTISH COUNCIL - DAY

The nobles of Scotland are gathered in the huge chamber; a

massive table runs across the far end of the room, and aligned

on either side are the two rival factions of nobles, glaring

at each other. Old Craig is in the center, with young Robert

the Bruce on his right. There is a general MURMUR along the

nobles, and Robert whispers to Craig...

A court STEWARDS steps in and formally announces...

The nobles on each side of the table try to outdo each other

in their acclamation as Wallace strides in, flanked by Hamish,

Campbell, and Stephen, splendid in their tartans.

Old Craig rises.

The nobles rise; court attendants hurry to Wallace and drape

a golden chain of office around his neck. Wallace takes the

three smaller chains they bring and drapes them around the

necks of his friends, as once again the nobles applaud.

Almost before the applause dies, a member of the BALLIOL

clan, who has kept an open seat beside him, speaks up...

But Wallace's gaze has locked onto Robert the Bruce, who

stares back, the two young lions instantly recognizing the

leadership power of each other.

The Balliols shrivel. The nobles on the Bruce side can barely

keep from grinning. Suddenly the men on the other end of the

table change their attack.

Wallace glances again at the Bruce, who suddenly feels ashamed

of the bickering.

Suddenly Wallace turns his back and walks toward the door.

He turns again and strides toward the door.

Wallace slings out his broadsword and moves down the length

of the table, bashing the succession documents into the laps

of the nobles.

He brandishes the broadsword.

Wallace bangs through the door. Suppressing smiles, his

friends file out behind him.

INT. EDINBURGH CORRIDOR - DAY

Wallace and his men are marching away, as Robert the Bruce

runs out after them.

Wallace walks; Robert catches up and speaks to him in an

urgent half whisper, so that no one else can hear.

Wallace walks away, leaving Robert the Bruce alone.

THE SCOTTISH ARMY - DAY

Wallace rides at the head of his army, moving through the

countryside of northern England. It is autumn, the foliage

is beautiful, the wheat fields gold with harvest.

EXT. ESTABLISHING YORK CITY - DAY

A medieval city guarded by a fortress.

INT. THE FORTRESS - MAP ROOM - DAY

The ROYAL GOVERNOR is a spoiled young man, Longshanks' nephew.

He is studying maps and written appeals for help; his CAPTAIN

of defenses strides in with another note.

They hear shouts as a rider arrives and dismounts. They look

out to see a panicked RIDER, who shouts up...

CARTS, RUMBLING IN PANIC DOWN A ROAD

as civilians flee the walled city in the distance.

THE SCOTTISH ARMY

has cut a huge tree and placed it on wheels. It rumbles

ominously TOWARD CAMERA...

THE CIVILIAN PANIC CONTINUES as more people join the swell

of those leaving York.

THE SCOTTISH ARMY keeps coming on.

INSIDE THE WALLS OF THE CITY - DAY

The governor is furious and confused.

The Governor turns to his captain with a look worthy of his

uncle, Longshanks the King.

ON THE BATTERING RAM

as it picks up speed and SLAMS into the wooden gate of the

city. With the collision, THE BATTLE IS ON. It's a night

battle: torches, flaming arrows, pots of boiling oil being

splashed down at the attackers, who swarm the gate.

The oil beats the first wave of Scots back, but Wallace rushes

forward, grabbing the ram cart with his own hands; the

attackers rally to him, helping him slam the gate again and

again. It breaks; but behind it is an awful tangle of carts,

broken sheds, impenetrable rubbish. Wallace grabs a torch,

throws it into the wooden tangle, and shouts --

INSIDE THE CITY

The Captain hurries into the tower room.

OUTSIDE THE WALLS

The Scots wait, biding their time as the barrier burns.

Suddenly they look up in horror; the English are throwing

the bodies of hanged Scots over the wall.

They stare at this in mute shock. Wallace is frozen, his

eyes reflecting his boyhood reaction. His men rush forward.

The Scots look at the hanging bodies.

Wallace draws his broadsword. The burning debris inside the

gate collapses, leaving a tunnel through the fire. Wallace

screams, and leads the charge through the burning barrier.

INT. THE PALACE IN LONDON - DAY

Prince Edward and Phillip, his fencing friend and lover,

hear a contingent of horsemen clatter into the courtyard

below; they look out the window and see the arrival of

Longshanks.

They lean back into the room and Edward begins to pace

nervously.

Edward shows Phillip the dagger he has concealed in his belt

behind his back.

Longshanks bangs the door open and stalks in angrily. First

he glares at Phillip with obvious loathing, then turns his

piercing stare to his own son.

A messenger enters and hands the prince a message. Edward

reads it and nearly loses his balance.

The messenger has also brought a basket. He approaches the

central table with great dread and places the basket on it,

uncovering its contents. Prince Edward is closest; he looks

in, then staggers back, stunned. Longshanks moves to the

sack coldly, looks in, and withdraws the severed head of his

nephew, York's (former) Governor.

The king drops the head back into the sack, unmoved.

Longshanks nods as if impressed. He moves to Phillip and

examines the gold chain of office that the young man wears.

Then Longshanks grabs him and throws him out the window, the

same one Edward and Phillip were looking out, six stories

above the courtyard. We hear Phillip's SCREAM as he falls.

Edward rushes toward the window in horror. He looks out at

the result, turns back toward his father in shock and hatred,

and only then remembers the dagger and goes for it.

He stabs at Longshanks; the old king smiles at the attack,

parrying, letting his arms be cut.

Then Longshanks unleashes his own hateful fury; he grapples

with Edward, knocking the dagger away and hurling him to the

floor; then Longshanks kicks his son, again and again. He

exhausts his fury on him.

Edward is a bloody mess; Longshanks coughs up a bit of blood.

He ignores it and his son's wreckage, and goes back to the

discussion, as if this fight was normal business.

Longshanks calculates.

EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY

A full encampment, across an English field; campfires chase

the dawn chill. Soldiers sharpen swords and spear points.

Wallace is huddled with his inner circle, all except Campbell,

who receives a report from a scout.

Wallace buckles on his sword.

AN ENGLISH PAVILION TENT - YORKSHIRE - DAY

Set up for a meeting in a sunny meadow. Wallace and his men

ride in, wary, ready for ambush. They surround the tent.

There are two dozen royal soldiers there, but they make no

threatening moves.

No sound from the tent. Wallace rests his hand on the handle

of his broadsword, ready.

Servants pull back the sides of the tent door, and a tall,

slender, shapely female figure appears there. There in the

shadows, she looks just like Marion! William is not the only

one who notices the resemblance; he glances at Hamish and

Campbell and sees them haunted by it too. Is this another

dream? He pales, as she steps into the morning sun. She moves

toward him, her face lowered. It is Marion!

She reaches him, lifts her face... and he sees the Princess!

William is relieved -- and yet as he sees the Princess more

closely he is still shaken by the resemblance in the way she

carries herself, her shape, the fall of her hair.

The Princess is struck with Wallace, too -- tall, powerful,

and commanding. Wallace dismounts, and moves to face her.

Their eyes hang on each other. She sees something that she

has not seen in the face of a man in her whole life.

She surprises him by bending at the knee, in a half-submissive

yet proud curtsey.

She nods; somehow she is already ashamed.

She leads him under the pavilion, a purple canopy shading

rich carpets laid on the bare ground. Watching the gorgeous

walk, Stephen lies back on his saddle and twitches his leg

like a horny dog. Hamish backhands him; Campbell, Hamish and

Stephen quickly dismount and follow the procession,

shouldering their way in beside the Princess's French guards,

so they can watch Wallace's back. The rest of the Scots

surround the tent, ready for ambush.

Nicolette is among the royal attendants there; seeing Wallace,

she shoots a glance at the Princess that says Ooo-La-La! The

servants have brought a throne for the Princess, a lower

chair for Wallace. She sits; he refuses the chair.

She studies him, taking in his anger and his pride.

But knowing Longshanks' family, she glances at a richly

dressed Advisor, a CRONY of the king, who averts his eyes.

The Crony mumbles to her in LATIN, WITH SUBTITLES...

They are startled at Wallace's fluency in Latin.

She stares for a long moment at Wallace's eyes.

He reluctantly obeys. Seeing that she wants the exchange to

be private, Wallace turns and nods for his men to leave.

Stephen, who has been admiring the lady's beauty non-stop,

leans in and whispers to William...

Stephen moves off with Hamish and Campbell. Wallace and the

princess are left alone.

The outburst startles even those watching from a distance.

The Princess is mesmerized by Wallace's passion.

The Princess is stunned; Wallace is dead still.

The Princess rises slowly from her chair, moves in front of

him, and lowers herself to her knees. The Crony and her other

attendants, seeing this from a distance, are shocked.

She lifts her face. Their eyes hold a moment too long.

LATER, EXT. FIELD - DAY

Wallace and his captains sit on horseback at the head of

their company and watch as the Princess' procession leaves.

Hamish studies Wallace's face; Wallace notices and gives him

a non-committal shrug. As the carriage rolls away, its window

curtains lift back slightly. All they see are the Princess'

fingers, but they know she looked back. Wallace reins his

horse away, to ride back to camp.

INT. EDWARD'S PALACE - DAY

The doors open; the Princess enters Longshanks' war council;

Prince Edward is there, among a dozen others.

She barely curtseys, and starts out.

He already knows she didn't; Hamilton is standing near him.

From a box at his feet the king withdraws a crossbow and

throws it onto the table. Most of those there are shocked.

Longshanks smiles. No one notices that the Princess is deadly

pale.

EXT. WALLACE ARMY CAMP - DAY

The Scots are lining up to leave their encampment. Wallace

is about to give the signal to start the march when Hamish,

beside him, comes alert; a small group of riders in

distinctive attire are coming toward them; what can this be?

The riders stop at a distance, and out from their ranks comes

a single rider, sitting sidesaddle. It is Nicolette.

Wallace and Hamish recognize her from the Princess's visit.

She trots her horse the rest of the way, while the French

guards stay back. Hamish helps her from her horse. She moves

to Wallace, and opens the heavy folds of her heavy riding

cape.

Secreted there, hung from a rope at her neck, is a crossbow.

EXT. A FIELD IN SCOTLAND - DAY

Wallace has gathered the nobles, among them Robert the Bruce,

Mornay, and old Craig, for a demonstration. Hamish and Stephen

have placed a spearman's chestplate against a bale of hay.

As William cranks the crossbow to its full cocked position

and places a bolt in its slot, Stephen tucks a melon behind

the armor.

William aims... and fires. The bolt slashes through the air

and punches through the armor and the melon, leaving no doubt

what it would do to a man's heart. The nobles pale.

The Bruce sees Wallace about to explode, and tries to

intervene -- but Wallace's anger is too great.

The nobles grip their weapons; Wallace, Hamish and Stephen

are ready to finish this quarrel right here. Robert the Bruce,

backed by Mornay, steps between the two sides.

The nobles stalk away, and Robert draws Wallace away, to the

target Wallace shot, so they are alone.

The question strikes deep.

Robert the Bruce walks off the field, heading the way the

other nobles went. Wallace rejoins Hamish and Stephen. They

look to him; what do we do now?

INT. THE DARKENED ROOM OF BRUCE THE ELDER, THE LEPER

In the faint nimbus of the single candle, young Robert sits

across from his leper father. The son grips his own head, as

if stunned by a blow.

Heartsick, the father reaches across the table, then stays

his arm, unwilling to touch his son with his leprous hand.

Young Robert holds his father with his eyes, and does not

look away.

EXT. THE BATTLE OF FALKIRK - DAY

The Scottish army moves out onto the hilly plain, covered in

the gray mists. They see glimpses of the enemy in the

distance. Wallace deploys the Scots: Campbell with the

schiltrons (spear formations), Stephen with the infantry,

the noble Mornay leading the cavalry, and with Wallace and

Hamish on horseback, looking over the field. Hamish sees

gazing up at an empty hill above the field.

He'd better, the odds look long. And it's nasty ground; one

side of the field is ankle deep in water, and the English

are covering it with a layer of burning oil, releasing thick

smoke to hide their movements.

The Priest from their home village is moving through the

Scottish ranks, dispensing absolution. He reaches the two

friends, who accept the Host, say their own last prayers,

and give each other a look of goodbye. Hamish rides off to

join the schiltrons.

LONGSHANKS AND HIS GENERALS

on the opposite side of the field, send their army forward.

WALLACE AND THE SCOTS

see them through the smoke; Wallace spots what he's looking

for: there they are, the ranks of crossbowmen!

And as they draw nearer, Wallace hears a haunting noise. He

sees the bowmen more clearly, and the English infantry. Some

are wearing kilts and marching to bagpipes.

STEPHEN OF IRELAND, WITH THE SCOTTISH INFANTRY

He stares at the approach of his countrymen. Wallace appears

beside him. Stephen sees him, and is ashamed.

Loyal to the end. Wallace signals to Hamish and Campbell,

among the schiltrons. The formations, bristling with spears,

move forward. Hamish looks back at Wallace; both men know

the spearmen are the bait here. Wallace and Stephen see the

English heavy cavalry advancing.

Wallace is scanning the battlefield. He sees the English

cavalry charge, but before they reach the bristling spears,

they pull up, and crossbowmen, moving up behind the knights.

The crossbowmen fire a volley, too hurriedly. We see the

hailstorm of bolts slash through the air in unison -- you

can actually see them coming. The bows fall short of the

front ranks of the schiltrons.

Stephen signals, and up the slope behind them come handlers

with ten war dogs.

Huge mastiffs, they wear steel collars, with razor sharp

protrusions. Their handlers hold them at the end of long

catch poles. The crossbowmen are distracted from their

reloading by the appearance of the mastiffs; now, as the

Scottish handlers run toward the English ranks and unleash

the dogs, fear races through the English line.

The dogs tear into them. It is chaos; the bowmen can't flee,

and as the dogs mix among them, the bowmen fire frantically,

mostly hitting each other. The dogs' collars slash legs;

their jaws crush bones; even when their back legs are hacked

off, the frenzied dogs keep killing.

Wallace signals to Mornay with the Scottish cavalry. Mornay

does nothing. The crossbowmen, though taking great punishment,

are beginning to overwhelm the dogs by sheer numbers, and

are regrouping.

Mornay tugs his reins and leads his cavalry away.

AT THE ENGLISH COMMAND

Longshanks and his officers see Mornay and his cavalry melt

away. The English general looks knowingly at Longshanks.

WALLACE, WITH STEPHEN

They see the Scottish army abandoned.

Wallace glances to the other hilltop; still no sign of Bruce.

He looks on in agony as the crossbowmen unleash another

volley. The Scottish spearmen, bunched in a tight group, are

helpless. The bolts fall, cutting through their helmets and

breastplates like paper. Wallace has no cavalry -- and his

men are being slaughtered! He spurs his horse, and Stephen

and the infantrymen race behind him.

The English heavy cavalry surge to meet them, but Wallace

weaves through them, dodging with his horse, slashing with

the broadsword, cutting down on knight, another, another...

The Scottish infantry claws in, dragging down the horses,

hacking the knights as they run by.

The English bowmen are about to fire again, but they see the

Scottish charge bearing down on them and adjust their aim;

the bolts cut into the infantrymen; one bolt tears off the

armor of Wallace's left shoulder. He wobbles on his horse,

regains his balance, and keeps up the charge.

AT THE ENGLISH COMMAND

Longshanks and his generals are watching the action.

The General signals and the English reinforcements surge

into the battle.

IN THE THICK OF THE BATTLE

On horseback, Wallace fights his way into the watery edge of

the field, where English infantry is now overrunning the

schiltron. He hacks men down left and right, reaches the

Scottish center, and finds Hamish bending over another

soldier. Wallace dismounts.

And Wallace sees that Hamish is holding his father, fallen

in battle. Wallace has no time to react; he cuts down and

English swordsman moving in to hack Hamish's back. Wallace

lifts Campbell across the saddle, and shouts at Hamish...

Hamish obeys, jumping onto the horse and galloping back toward

the rear. Wallace fights with new vengeance, swinging the

double-edged broadsword with deadly accuracy.

Rallied by Wallace's presence, the Scots surge back. Then

Wallace sees the English reinforcement cavalry coming.

The Scots pull up spears and hastily form another schiltron.

The spears bristle out, ready... the English horsemen thunder

in. But before the spears impale the horses, another flight

of crossbow bolts cuts down half the Scots still fighting.

Hamish reaches the rear of the battle and lowers the limp

body of his father to the Scottish monks who are attending

to the wounded and giving absolution to the dying...

Still Wallace fights back, meeting the English charge. The

Scots hold their own. An English knight tries to ride over

William; he knocks the lance aside, and tough the horse slams

into him, William also unseats the rider.

The rider rolls to his feet. William struggles up to meet

him -- and comes face to face with Robert the Bruce.

The shock and recognition stun Wallace; in that moment,

looking at Robert the Bruce's guilt-ridden face, he

understands everything: the betrayal, the hopelessness of

Scotland. As he stands there frozen, a bolt punches into the

muscle of his neck, and Wallace doesn't react to it.

Bruce is horrified at the sight of Wallace this way. He

batters at Wallace's sword, as if its use would give him

absolution.

But Wallace can only stagger back. Bruce's voice grows ragged

as he screams.

All around, the battle has decayed; the Scots are being

slaughtered. Another bolt glances off Wallace's helmet; a

third rips into his thigh plate, making his legs collapse.

Suddenly Stephen comes through the melee, on Robert's horse!

He hits Robert from behind, knocking him down, and jumps to

the ground to try and lift William onto the horse!

Robert sees a knot of crossbowmen moving up, sighting out

Wallace, taking careful aim! Bruce leaps up and helps Stephen

sling Wallace onto the back of the horse, even covers him

with his shield, deflecting another bolt fired at Wallace,

as Stephen mounts too.

As the horse plunges away into the smoke, Robert falls to

the water. His own troops reach him, realize who he is, see

the horrible expression on his face, and race on after the

Scots.

Robert is left alone, on his knees in the water, the fire

and noise of battle now dim to him, as if his senses have

died along with his heart.

LONGSHANKS

Looks over the battlefield, strewn with the bodies of the

Scottish dead. For now, he is satisfied.

EXT. ROAD - SUNSET

Remnants of the defeated army straggle past. Wallace and

Stephen are trying to help Hamish carry his father, but now

old Campbell says...

But as they tilt old Campbell onto the ground, he grabs at

something that starts to fall from the wound in his stomach.

Hamish is too grief-stricken to speak.

Old Campbell rallies one more time for this.

The last three words to Hamish, telling him he's a hero too.

Hamish is weeping. When he looks up again, his father has

died. We PULL BACK from them in tableaux, with the army, the

people of Scotland, the whole gray world in defeat.

INT. EDINBURGH CASTLE - DAY

Wallace, still bloody and in his battered armor, removes the

chain of office from beneath his breastplate, lays it onto

the table in front of Craig and the other nobles, and walks

from the room. Hamish and Stephen see the satisfaction on

the nobles' face, and follow William out.

INT. CASTLE CORRIDOR - DAY

Hamish and Stephen move out into the hallway after Wallace --

but he is gone.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

Wallace is in the woods, in the grove of trees, looking at

Marion's hidden grave. The rain falls on his face, like tears.

But he has no tears of his own. The cold, the icy rain, the

wounds, nothing seems to touch him.

With his fingertips he carefully draws her embroidered cloth

from beneath his breastplate; hanging in his trembling hands,

filthy with the grime and gore of battle, it looks impossibly

white, something from a better, purer world.

INT. PALACE IN LONDON - NIGHT

Thunder, the sound of driving rain. Snug by a massive fire

are Longshanks, his son Edward, and other advisors. On the

far side of the room, away from the fire, the Princess stands

at the window and watches the rain against the panes.

Longshanks savors the victory -- and gloats to his son.

From the other side of the window, we see the Princess as

she hears him, but doesn't turn around. She looks at the

window, we snow swirling among the raindrops outside. Her

eyes glisten, and her breath fogs the glass.

INT. BRUCE'S DARKENED CHAMBER

The elder Bruce, his decaying features sagging from his face,

stares across the table at his son.

INT. MORNAY'S CASTLE - NIGHT

Mornay, in an opulent bedchamber hung with tapestries and

carpeted with eastern rugs, lies in bed, tossing in the

restless sleep of a tortured soul.

He thinks he hears galloping. In SUBLIMINAL FLASHES he DREAMS

of Wallace riding toward him.

He wakes, and listens to a strange noise. It is hoofbeats!

Coming closer. He hears shouts too, screams from below --

and those strange, approaching hoofbeats...

WALLACE, ON HORSEBACK

rides up the circular stairs inside Mornay's castle! His

horse bounds up the stone -- Mornay's guards are behind him,

on foot, pursuing.

At a landing, Wallace cuts down a guard, and gallops higher.

IN HIS BED, MORNAY

sits up gawking as the door explodes inward and Wallace rides

through! Mornay is frozen. Wallace slashes him down.

Out in the corridor, the guards gather; they have Wallace

trapped. He covers the horse's eyes with a cloth and spurs

his flanks. The blind animal runs through the window!

EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT - SLOW MOTION

The horse and rider plunge past the sheer walls of the

castle... and into the loch! Mornay's guards and the castle

servants cluster at the windows to see Wallace and the horse

surface, and swim to the shore, escaping!

EXT. SCOTTISH VILLAGE - DAY

The news has spread through the countryside. In the town

square, drunken Scotsmen chant...

Old Craig rides past them, heading toward the Bruce's castle

on the hill above the town.

INT. BRUCE CASTLE - DAY

Robert is in his central room; he hears the chanting from

far below. Old Craig enters.

Craig hands him the bloody nightshirt Mornay was wearing.

He can't hide his admiration. From below, he still hears the

people CHANTING...

EXT. LONDON - GARDENS - DAY

Longshanks and Edward are in the royal gardens, resplendent

with spring. Longshanks pulls a new flower, and crushes it.

Longshanks glowers at his son; the Princess arrives.

Edward snickers in derision -- but his wife is steel.

EXT. THE PRINCESS' SCOTTISH CASTLE - DAY

Locharmbie is a small, picturesque castle on a hillside. As

the queen's entourage moves through the gates, they close

behind her. She steps out of the carriage and moves into

INT. CASTLE - THE GREAT HALL - DAY

Inside the great hall are thirty killers, led by their CHIEF

ASSASSIN, a cutthroat with a mangled eye.

EXT. MARION'S GROVE - NIGHT

Wallace is in the grove of trees where Marion is buried.

Drinking in the silence, his own isolation. He hears a RUSTLE

behind him, and spins, drawing the broadsword. Then his face

registers... it's Hamish and Stephen.

Hamish is unsure if he did the right thing in coming here --

unsure, until Wallace moves to them, and hugs them.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

They are in the old secret cave; rain is falling, but it's

dry inside, with a campfire smoldering at the entrance.

Stephen pulls a jug of whiskey from his pocket. He swigs,

hands it to Hamish for a chug, then to Wallace, who declines,

but smiles for the first time in many weeks.

Wallace frowns; a barn?

EXT. A BARN IN THE SCOTTISH COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

Hauntingly similar to the one in Wallace's childhood. As he

sits on his horse and looks at the place, surmounted by a

white flag of truce, it gives him a chill. But in full view

of the barn, he hands Hamish his sword and rides forward.

INSIDE THE BARN

are the assassins, killing knives ready.

They position themselves at every entrance.

OUTSIDE THE BARN

Wallace reaches the barn, dismounts, and moves toward the

door. But suddenly, instead of entering, he grabs the heavy

bar and seals the door! At this motion, Scots spring from

the woods in all directions. The assassins inside realize

the ambush is being turned on them, but it's too late; they

hear the entrance being sealed from the outside.

More Scots, led by Stephen, scramble up from hiding, place

tinder-dry brush and pitch against the barn, and set it on

fire. In moments the entire barn is blazing. The Scots stand

back and watch the barn burn, their faces lit by the flames.

After awhile, there are no more screams from inside.

EXT. CASTLE - NIGHT

The Princess sees the burning off in the distance, like a

bonfire. She stands on the wall, looking out at it. And then

she sees, on a hillside, silhouetted against the night and

the fire, a rider, just sitting there on his horse, looking

at the castle. She runs into the castle, up the stairs, and

stands on the pinnacle of the castle, so that she too is

silhouetted, and he can see her.

The lone rider is William Wallace.

CLOSE - A CANDLE

being placed in a window of the stable cottage, built into

the outer wall of the castle. AT A DISTANCE, the candle burns

like a tiny beacon. And William sees it.

INSIDE THE STABLE COTTAGE, THE PRINCESS

sits alone, wondering if her signal is going to work.

OUTSIDE THE CASTLE

Wallace climbs the castle wall, hand over hand up the mortared

stones, to the window twenty feet above the ground.

He reaches the safety of the window cove and kneels on the

ledge. He looks through the window, and sees her inside.

INSIDE THE ROOM, she looks up, and sees him there. The first

glance frightens her, and yet she expected him, prayed for

him to come. Now, for a long, long moment the two of them

look at each other through the glass, each realizing the

implications of this moment.

She moves to the window and opens it. The wind rushing through

extinguishes the candle, and he slips inside. They face each

other in the darkness. Then she strikes a match and relights

the candle, and they look at each other.

She wants to say something -- but instead she says something

else.

He turns his face away. Gently, she pulls it back.

He twists back toward the window.

Surprised, he looks at her now.

Slowly, it starts to dawn on him what she's asking, and an

unexpected smile plays at his lips. Her smile lights too.

Slowly, he reaches to the candle flame, and pinches it out.

IN THE SHADOWS OF THE COTTAGE BED

we see the surging, pent-up passion... and

THE LOVERS

Their bodies limp, they lie asleep, entwined. The first rays

of morning spread yellow light through the room and across

their faces.

Wallace wakes suddenly; sunlight! He grabs for his clothes,

as she wakes, covers herself in the blanket and jumps out of

bed, rushing to the window to look out.

He reaches her, throws the window open, and sees a clear

path down the wall to safety. He stops and looks at her, and

touches her face in gratitude. She has to ask...

Pausing to look straight into her eyes, he kisses her --

her, not Marion -- and climbs out. She watches him go.

EXT. GROVE OF TREES - NIGHT

Wallace stands alone in the grove where Marion lies.

MONTAGE

-- Wallace and fifty men gallop through a village on the way

to an English fortress; the villagers drop what they're doing

and run to follow them; we see Wallace's face, relentless,

as he hacks men down in the attack; with the fortress sacked

and smoking in the background, we see Wallace lead his men

away, the people cheering him...

EXT. FOREST ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

Once again, Wallace stares at the fire, beside his friends.

Stephen offers the jug; Wallace declines.

Pulling a tattered tartan around himself, he lies down.

LONGSHANKS, INT. HIS PALACE - NIGHT

He sits by a palace hearth, where a huge blaze burns; still

he's huddled beneath a blanket, and coughing blood. But he

ignores the ice in his lungs; his mind is plotting.

THE PRINCESS, EXT. THE WALLS OF HER CASTLE - NIGHT

she walks the parapets alone, lost in her own thoughts.

ROBERT THE BRUCE, IN A STONE ROOM OF HIS CASTLE

sits staring at... the stone coffin of his father. The coffin

is closed; on its top is a lifesize stone carving of his

father as a knight in final repose. Ranks of candles light

the scene, and Robert's face, cold as the stone. A SHUFFLE...

Robert looks up to see old Craig.

Craig sits next to Robert, and keeps his voice low.

Robert only stares at his father's stone coffin.

He shows Robert a parchment bearing the noblest names in

Scotland. The Bruce barely glances at it.

Robert turns from his father's coffin, to look at Craig.

EXT. FOREST ENCAMPMENT - NIGHT

A commotion; the nobles, their heads hooded, are led in on

horseback by guerrillas from the village. The nobles stop,

feel their hoods pulled off, and see Wallace.

Wallace glances at Hamish and Stephen, who can barely hide

their contempt. Wallace looks at the nobles.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Wallace stands alone, looking at the moon and stars. Hamish

moves up and sits down beside him.

EXT. ROAD INTO EDINBURGH - SUNSET

William, Hamish, and Stephen are on their horses, looking

down at the road leading into the city. Wallace hands his

dagger to Stephen, and unbuckles his broadsword and gives it

to Hamish.

Wallace hugs them, first Stephen, then Hamish. Tears roll

down Hamish's cheeks. With one last look at his friends,

Wallace rides away.

EXT. LARGE ESTATE HOUSE - SUNSET

The house looks quiet as Wallace rides toward it.

INT. ESTATE HOUSE - DAY

Robert the Bruce and Craig stand at the hearth, tense.

They hear the approach of a single horse. The Bruce looks

out to see Wallace arriving.

OUTSIDE THE HOUSE

Wallace dismounts and enters.

INT. THE HOUSE

Wallace appears at the doorway into the main room, and stops.

Bruce faces him. The eyes of BOTH MEN meet, saying everything.

Wallace steps into the room. He sees something flicker onto

Bruce's face -- shame -- just as henchmen in the rafters

drop a weighted net and it envelopes Wallace.

English soldiers spring from the closets, run down the stairs,

and tumble over him, ripping at his clothes, searching as if

broadswords might spring from his boots.

They bind Wallace hand and foot. He stares at Robert the

Bruce, who averts his eyes. The soldiers hurry Wallace out

the back, where others are bringing up horses. Robert grabs

the English Captain of the soldiers.

The Captain looks at Bruce the way the High Priest must have

looked at Judas, and leaves.

Robert the Bruce spots something on the floor that must have

fallen from Wallace's clothes as they grabbed him; Bruce

lifts the white handkerchief, and sees the familiar thistle

embroidered on it.

EXT. ROAD - NORTHERN ENGLAND - DAY

A procession of heavily armed English soldiers winds its way

toward London, Wallace strapped to an unsaddled horse, his

head bare to the sun. Country people come out to jeer...

A thrown rock careens off Wallace's check; rotten fruit slaps

his shirt. His lips are so parched they bleed.

INT. ROYAL PALACE - LONGSHANKS' BEDROOM - DAY

Edward inspects his father, who lies semiconscious in bed,

breath rattling ominously in his chest. Edward approves.

INT. THE PALACE HALLWAY - DAY

The Princess hurries up to her husband as he leaves the king's

bedroom, and follows him down the hall to his own.

With a faint smile, he shuts his bedroom door in her face.

INT. ROBERT THE BRUCE'S CASTLE - DAY

The Bruce is incredulous, yelling at Craig.

INT. TOWER DUNGEON

Wallace stands in medieval restraints worthy of Hannibal

Lecter. Before him are six scarlet-robed royal magistrates.

We PUSH IN on the iron mask that binds his face. We can only

see his eyes -- but they are bright.

EXT. ESTABLISHING - THE TOWER

The stone prison, and the wretched stone section known to

this day as the Wallace Tower.

INT. PRISON - NIGHT

Wallace is alone in his cell, still in the garish restraints.

We can only see his eyes, as he prays.

OUTSIDE THE CELL DOOR

The jailers jump to their feet as the Princess enters.

The jailer obeys. The Princess can barely contain her shock

at the sight of Wallace; the jailers snatch him upright.

Reluctantly the jailers shuffle out of the cell, but they

can still see her back and hear her. Looking at Wallace's

eyes through the mask, she can't quite hold back her tears --

dangerous tears, that threaten to say too much. Wallace tries

to distract her.

She wants to plead, she wants to scream. She can't stop the

tears. And the jailers are watching.

She almost goes too far now, pulling closer to him -- but

she doesn't care. She whispers, pleading...

She pulls out a hidden vial, and whispers...

On the verge of hysteria, she presses the vial to the air

hole at his mouth and pours in the drug. The jailers, seeing

suspicious movement, shift inside the cell; she backs up,

her eyes wide, full of love and goodbye. From inside the

mask, he watches her go. When the door CLANGS shut, he spits

the purple drug out through the mouth hole.

INT. LONGSHANKS' BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

Longshanks lies helpless, his body racked with consumption.

Edward sits against the wall, watching him die, glee in his

eyes. The Princess enters, and marches to the bedside.

Longshanks shakes his head.

The king can't speak. But hatred still glows in his eyes.

The princess looks at her husband.

She leans down and grabs the dying king by the hair. The

guards flanking the door start forward but the Princess's

eyes flare at them with more fire than even Longshanks once

showed -- and the guards back off. She leans down and hisses

to Longshanks, so softly that even Edward can't hear...

She lets go of the old king. He sags like an empty sack back

onto his satin pillows. Without even a look at her husband

she strides out of the room, with the rattling breath of the

dying king rasping the air like a saw.

EXT. LONDON TOWN SQUARE - EXECUTION DAY

The crowd is festive; hawkers sell roast chickens, and beer

from barrels. Royal horsemen arrive, dragging Wallace strapped

to a wooden litter. As they cut him loose and lead him through

the crowd, the people begin to jeer and throw things at him:

chicken bones, rocks, empty tankards.

We see a former English soldier, one of those who fled in

terror at the battle of Stirling, lift a stone from the street

and hurl it; it cracks against Wallace's cheek.

Wallace's eyes capture the soldier, and hold him, piercing

his soul. The soldier looks away in shame, even as the rest

of the crowd jeers more.

Grim magistrates prod Wallace and he climbs the execution

platform. On the platform are a noose, a dissection table

with knives in plain view, and a chopping block with an

enormous axe. Wallace sees it all.

He emphasizes "mercy" by pointing to the axe. Wallace is

pale, and trebles -- but he shakes his head. The CROWD grows

noisier as they put the noose around Wallace's neck...

WE INTERCUT:

-- THE PRINCESS, in helpless agony, hearing the DISTANT NOISE

from her room in the palace...

-- Hamish and Stephen, disguised as peasants among the crowd,

helpless too, but there, as if to shoulder some of the pain.

-- Longshanks, rattling, coughing blood, as Edward watches.

-- Robert the Bruce paces along the walls of his castle in

Scotland. His eyes are haunted; he grips the embroidered

handkerchief that belonged to Wallace.

ON THE EXECUTION STAND

a trio of burly hooded executioners cinch a rope around

Wallace's neck and hoist him up a pole.

In the SCORE, AMAZING GRACE, wailed on bagpipes, carries

through all that happens now... Ties hand and foot, Wallace

is strangling. The Magistrate watches coldly; even when the

executioner gives him a look that says they're about to go

too far, he prolongs the moment; then the Magistrate nods

and the executioner cuts the rope. Wallace slams to the

platform; the Magistrate leans to him.

With great effort, Wallace rises to his knees. The Magistrate

assumes a formal posture and offers the cloak.

Wallace struggles all the way to his feet.

The executioners slam Wallace onto his back on the table,

spread his arms and legs, and tie each to a crank. Goaded by

the crowd, they pull the ropes taut. They crowd grows quiet

enough to hear the groaning of Wallace's limbs. Hamish and

Stephen feel it in their own bodies.

Wallace shakes his head. The executioners cut off his clothes,

take hot irons from a fire box. The crowd grows silent; we

see them, not Wallace, as the irons are touched to his body,

but we hear the burning of flesh. Then the Magistrate signals;

Wallace wants to say something.

Everyone hears; Hamish smiles, even through his tears.

Rebuffed, the Magistrate nods to the executioners, who lift

the terrible instruments of dissection.

We are spared seeing the cutting: we are ON WALLACE'S FACE

as the disembowelment begins. The Magistrate leans in beside

him.

The crowd can't hear the magistrate but they know the

procedure, and they goad Wallace, chanting...

Wallace's eyes roll to the magistrate, who signals QUIET!

SILENCE. Hamish and Stephen weep, whisper, pray...

Wallace's eyes flutter, and clear. He fights through the

pain, struggles for one last deep breath, and screams...

The shout RINGS through the town. Hamish hears it. The

Princess hears it, at her open window, and touches her tummy,

just showing the first signs of her pregnancy. Longshanks

and his son seem to hear; the cry STILL ECHOES as if the

wind could carry it through the ends of Scotland; and Robert

the Bruce, on the walls of his castle, looks up sharply, as

if he has heard...

IN THE LONDON SQUARE

the crowd has never seen courage like this; even English

strangers begin to weep. The angry, defeated magistrate gives

a signal. They cut the ropes, drag Wallace over and put his

head on the block. The executioner lifts his huge axe -- and

Wallace looks toward the crowd.

THE CROWD, WALLACE'S POV

He sees Hamish, eyes brimming, face glowing...

SLOW MOTION - THE AXE

begins to drop.

WALLACE'S POV

In the last half-moment of his life, when he has already

stepped into the world beyond this one, he glimpses someone

standing at Hamish's shoulder. She is beautiful, smiling,

serene.

She is Marion.

ROBERT THE BRUCE

His face has changed. He is standing AT THE OPEN GRAVE WHERE

MARION LAY, the headstone carved with the thistle still there.

He holds the handkerchief. As he tucks it into his own pocket,

and we MOVE IN on his eyes, we realize the VOICE OVER belongs

to him.

EXT. SCOTTISH TOWNS - VARIOUS SHOTS - DAY

We see the people, as the remains of William Wallace are

displayed in a box. The faces of the young men are fiery.

More young men put on tartans, take up their weapons, and

gather into fighting units. Among them is Hamish, carrying a

shield emblazoned with a cocked arm holding a broadsword,

and the words "For Freedom."

EXT. SCOTTISH HIGHLANDS - DAY

Robert the Bruce, flanked by the noblemen and the banners of

the Scottish throne, and backed by a ragtag army of Scots,

sits on his horse and looks down at the English generals in

their martial finery. The English are haughty, victorious,

at the head of their colorful, polished army, awaiting the

ceremony of submission from Scotland's new king.

FROM BELOW, ON THE OPEN PLAIN - DAY

The Scots -- the remains of William Wallace's army -- look

so ragged and defeated that it hardly seems worth the wait.

One ENGLISH COMMANDER turns and jokes with another...

UP ON THE HILL, Robert the Bruce sits on his horse, and waits.

He looks down at the English generals, at their banners,

their army. He looks down the ranks at his own.

He sees Hamish. Stephen. Old MacClannough is there, his eyes

watery, his weapon sharp. The Scottish bride Lord Bottoms

took is there, among the ragtag archers, her husband beside

her. Robert knows none of them -- yet he knows them all.

Old Craig, among the other Scottish nobles mounted beside

the Bruce, grows impatient.

But Robert holds something -- uncurling his fist, he looks

at the thistle handkerchief that belonged to Wallace. The

nobles start to rein their horses toward the English.

Robert the Bruce tucks the handkerchief safely behind his

breastplate, and turns to the Highlanders who line the hilltop

with him. He takes a long breath, and shouts --

Bruce's broadsword slides from its scabbard. A cry rises

from Highlanders, as from a tomb, rising --

The chant builds to a frenzy; it shakes the earth. The

Scottish nobles can scarcely believe it; the English are

shocked even more. Robert the Bruce, king of Scotland, spurs

his horse into full gallop toward the English, and the

Highlanders hurl their bodies down the hill, ready to run

through hell itself. In SLOW MOTION we see their faces...

And OVER THIS, we hear the voice of William Wallace...

On Wallace's army behind Robert the Bruce, charging down the

hill to victory and glory, we slow to FREEZE FRAME and hear

their chant, huge, echoing...

