FADE IN:

SCREEN TYPE:    THIS IS A TRUE STORY

EXT. KIGALI AIRPORT. DAY

A burning white sun high in a clear blue sky,

A rundown (sixties) airport, peeling in the heat.

A mad traffic jam of cars, vans, motorbikes all stopped at a checkpoint

where a RWANDAN POLICEMAN blows his whistle, waves some and stops

others as bored Rwandan soldiers look on.

CLOSE ON: A white van pulls out of traffic, a balls-out case of line

jumping. HORNS, OBSCENITIES.

A HAND: Extends from the passenger side of the van, Rwandan francs

pressed neatly between thumb and palm.

The van stops next to the policeman.

Mr. Rusesabagina, good morning.

In the passenger seat PAUL RUSESABAGINA, late 30's, flashes a smile. He

is dressed in a sharp blue suit (always dressed in a neat suit and tie,

it is a matter of pride).

A quick shake of hands. Money passes from one to the other.

EXT. KIGALI AIRPORT TARMAC. DAY

The van parked by the runway tarmac. African music plays on the radio.

Paul drums his fingers, checks his watch.

ZOZO, porter/driver, early thirties, sits nervously.

An airport baggage handler approaches the van.

Zozo throws the van into gear and speeds off.

EXT. KIGALI STREETS. DAY

The white van, marked "THE HOTEL MILLE COLLINES," whips its way through

Kigali's packed streets and open-air markets.

ZXT. KIGALI STREETS. DAY

Zozo works THE HORN, weaves in and out of traffic.

Suddenly, Zozo slows.

Paul looks up, SEES: a gathering on the side of the road -- a large

crowd of men dressed in exotically, yet identically colored shirts.

They're members of the INTERAHAMWE - the Hutu Militia.

(Interahamwe - the Hutu Militia will de distinguished by these wildly

colored shirts) They chant, drink beer, dance onto the road,

obstructing cars, threatening the occupants. Several of them perform a

rhythmic dance - the INTERAHAMWE war dance to thumping drumbeat music

from a boombox.

Zozo, scared, looks for a side road, studies the traffic behind.

As the van approaches,

The van pulls up beside the Militia.

Some Militia approach. They are suddenly friendly, helpful.

Paul reaches into his pocket, takes out some Rwandan dollars.

As the van pulls away Zozo looks to Paul, relieved.

INT. RUTAGANDA'S WAREHOUSE. DAY

At his desk in front of a fan. GEORGE RUTAGUNDA, late 30's, huge, gold

chains, Rolex watch, (like an African Mafia boss) but the same

Interahamwe shirt. He squeezes an orange rind into a cup of espresso.

Behind him, through his office window, the white van is being loaded

with cases of beer.

George holds out his massive shirt.

Paul sits opposite, sipping coffee.

Paul studies his watch.

George leads Paul out into the warehouse.

As a forklift lifts A WOODEN CRATE, George angers.

The driver of the forklift, anxiously, spins the machine to return the

crate but it slides off and CRASHES onto the floor: MACHETES, hundreds

of them, spill out.

An awkward moment then George picks one of the crude blades.

Off Zozo terrified.

EXT. KIGALI AIRPORT TARMAC. DAY

A Sabena airliner lands. Passengers disembark via a roll-up staircase.

Paul's van pulls up by the luggage belt.

A large polystyrene box comes down the conveyor belt. It has Brussels -

Kigali destination stickers all over it.

As Zozo picks it up, water sloshes from the lid.

Zozo goes to open it.

Paul slips money to two customs officials.

EXT. KIGALI STREETS. DAY

The van speeds through traffic. More traffic jams, Zozo edges up on the

sidewalk. Then at an intersection they see.

THE INTERAHAMWE PARADE - a mass of young men and women, most in the

same colorful uniform. Line after line, waves all performing the

INTERAHAMWE war dance, in wild hypnotic sync, many wave sticks, spears,

wooden imitation guns. A large banner reads, "Hutu Power."

A flatbed truck, speakers blare drumbeat music. On it GEORGE RUTAGUNDA

dances the DANCE and waves a machete to the crowd.

Zozo sinks down behind the wheel.

The parade passes. As they wait Paul takes out the wad of notes George

gave him, peels off a few dollars.

Zozo takes it.

EXT. HOTEL ENTRANCE. DAY

The van turns off the street into The Milles Collines Hotel driveway

and HONKS twice as it pulls down a short drive lined with tall shrubs.

An ARMED GUARD rushes from his booth and lifts the gate. Perfectly

timed. The van doesn't even have to slow as it passes. A sign on the

guard house reads "WELCOME TO THE HOTEL MILLE COLLINES".

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Lush tropical gardens, peacocks wander the well-manicured lawns,an

exotic African paradise. The van heads to a magnificent colonial

building.

A valet opens the front door of the hotel and looks shocked. It's

unheard of for a service van to stop out front.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul leads Zozo and the valet into a magnificent lobby, a tasteful

blend of Africa and Europe. Guests stare as water sloshes and spills

from the crate.

GREGOIRE, early thirties the receptionist behind the desk throws a look

of disapproval. Paul, imperial, snaps his finger toward him.

Gregoire engages a guest in chit-chat, ignores Paul.

The elevator door opens and reveals BIK the Belgian hotel manager, mid-

40's, reading some reports. He looks up, sees Paul and Zozo carrying

the box as they step in. Bik looks puzzled.

Now Bik sees the wet floor.

The elevator doors shut. Bik's left standing in disbelief.

INT. HOTEL KITCHEN. DAY

The crate is hefted onto a counter. The top pried off. A crowd of

cooks gathers around Paul and Zozo as they peer in.

They hoist up one end of the crate and LOBSTERS spill out. Many make

it into the sink, but some miss and slide across the counter and fall

onto the floor.

The cooks sort the living from the dead.

The cooks smells a dead lobster, shakes his head no.

Paul fixes his tie, very pleased, another crisis solved.

INT. BANQUET ROOM/HOTEL MILLE COLLINES. DAY

Paul inspects the tables' fresh flowers, sparkling crystal glasses. He

looks to the bar - Grolsch on ice.

The sound of African drums fills the air.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul emerges, as a troupe of African male dancers in ceremonial costume

- Leopard skin dress, ostrich feather head dress, spears and shields

perform a greeting dance for a the American Ambassador and a crowd of

European dignitaries.

The male dancers are joined by a troupe of young female dancers in

similar ceremonial dress. The ceremony comes to a foot stomping finale.

The guests break into LOUD APPLAUSE. Paul flings open double doors to a

reception room and the crowd moves in.

A UN Colonel, OLIVER, middle aged, Canadian,follows the US Ambassador.

The Colonel wear the blue berets and armbands of UN Peacekeepers. (all

UN troops will be distinguished by their bright blue berets, white

helmets and arm bands)

The Ambassador shakes the Colonel's hand.

MR. COLSON, crew cut, military build, is obviously CIA.

Paul backs away unnoticed...

INT. KITCHEN/HOTEL MILLE COLLINES. DAY

...then marches into the busy kitchen, claps his hands toward a

gathering of waiters.

A waiter whispers to him.

Paul heads out of the kitchen.

INT. HOTEL BAR. DAY

A luxurious lounge/club called the Kigali Club - an African

Casablanca, complete with animal heads, a statue of a mountain gorilla,

grand piano in the corner. Rwandan Hutu army officers, (distinguished

by their crisp khaki uniforms, in the style of the French army), arms

dealers, government dignitaries, businessmen and reporters mingle

freely. The few tourists stand out.

PAUL heads to a table. The center of attention and conversation is

General BIZIMUNGU, 40's, dressed in a crisp, heavily decorated

uniform, a strong figure, relaxed, in control.

Paul heads for the lobby. He's intercepted by an zealous young Tutsi

reporter BENEDICT who covers the political scene for the local

independent newspaper.

Benedict takes out his reporters notebook.

Paul laughs.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul fixes a floral arrangement as he passes then arrives at the clock

room hatch.

Paul moves off as the coat check scurries away.

An American woman, CONNIE DENVER, rich, blonde, surgically enhanced,

stands by the door of the tourism office.

INT. HOTEL TOURISM OFFICE. DAY

Paul walks into the tourism office. It is decorated with posters and

photos of Rwanda's single most important economic asset - the rare

silver back mountain Gorillas. There's a picture of the real-life Diane

Fossey next to the movie poster for "Gorillas in the Mist". Numerous

books and video cassettes. CONNIE DENVER's older husband, BOB, and four

American friends wait.

INT. HOTEL BANQUET ROOM. DAY

The luncheon is in full swing. Paul glides in the background.

Close on: The Ambassador in deep conversation with Oliver.

Paul smiles.

Oliver bursts out laughing.

The ambassador takes Paul's hand, shakes it warmly.

Paul moves away graciously, and in one smooth move checks out, then

pockets, the hundred dollar bill the ambassador palmed him.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

General Bizimungu gazes through glass into the reception room, SEES

Paul shake hands and joke with the Ambassador. (He's impressed.)

Paul notices the General.

The General raises his briefcase and waves.

Paul waves back. Another favor rendered.

EXT. HOTEL GROUNDS. NIGHT

It is night now. Floodlights bathe the hotel in a warm glow. Tiki oil

lamps illuminate the walkways and spread scented citronella smoke among

the trees. Wild birds CALL OUT.

EXT. HOTEL REAR CAR PARK. NIGHT

Paul walks to the employee car park at the rear.

He sees Gregoire and another male reception clerk tossing Zozo's

pillbox porter's hat between them with Zozo trapped in the middle

trying to jump and catch it. Gregoire thinks this tease is great fun.

sails over Gregoire's head and lands at Paul's feet. Zozo scampers to

pick it up.

Gregoire doesn't move.

Gregoire bends, picks up the hat, hands it to Zozo, who walks away

quickly. Gregoire and his friend turn to head back into the hotel.

Bik has walked out of the rear door and overheard.

A sly smile breaks on Gregoire's face as he uses Bik's arrival to

disappear inside.

Bik leans slightly closer.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. NIGHT

Paul hops in his car and tosses a box of Belgium chocolates on the seat

next to him.

EXT. KIGALI STREETS. NIGHT

Paul speeds through the streets of Kigali HUMMING along to music on the

radio and eating chocolates from the box. He passes bicycles laden

with produce. The song on the radio ends and local news comes on.

Paul turns the station.    Finds another with music.

EXT. KIGALI NEIGHBORHOOD. NIGHT

Lights burn in windows. Kids play soccer in dusty lots. Paul's van

turns onto a residential street and slows. He HONKS twice. The metal

gate to a walled compound swings open. A GUARD(old, peaked hat, bare

feet, pathetic) stands just inside. Paul waves to him and pullsinto

the courtyard, two cars are already parked there.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE. NIGHT

A neat bungalow and gardens behind the high wall. Paul parks and gets

out. A DOG runs and greets him, BARKING.

His wife, TATIANA, a woman of great natural beauty, emerges from the

house, beside her an even taller, very elegant woman, she has a

doctor's bag and a stethoscope in her hand. This is ODETTE, their

family doctor and close friend.

Paul embraces Odette warmly, kisses Tatiana.

EXT: PAUL'S HOUSE. NIGHT

The old guard opens the gate, Odette drives off.

EXT. PAUL'S GARDEN. NIGHT

His brother-in-law THOMAS and sister-in-law FEDENS come out to greet

Paul the Patriarch. They hug. Kids run everywhere. Paul spots his twin

nieces Anais (in blue) and Carine (in yellow), four years old. He

scoops them up, one in each arm.

She laughs.

Anais reaches out her hand. Paul sets them on the ground, takes a

chocolate from his chocolate box, deliberately hands it to Carine.

Anais jumps up and down.

He takes a chocolate gives it to Carine, then hands out the   chocolates

to his children who are gathered around.

INT. PAUL'S KITCHEN. DAY

A crowded family table. Tatiana, Paul's four children, Thomas and

Fedens, and the twins Anais and Carine.

Paul's eldest, ROGER, 12, bows his head.

Food is passed around. Roger gobbles his down.

Roger takes off at a run.

EXT. PAUL'S GARDEN. NIGHT

Roger runs to a wooden fence, gets down, moves two boards and squeezes

through into a path, almost a tunnel in dense reeds.

EXT. NEIGHBOR'S (SIMON'S) YARD. NIGHT

Roger crawls along his path. There's a gap a little way down, and Roger

shoots through it into the wide open of the neighbors yard. He runs to

a back window of the house and taps on it. Soon SIMON, 12, appears. He

slides it open.

Simon lets Roger in.

INT. NEIGHBOR'S (SIMON'S) HOUSE. NIGHT

Roger holds a WILDLY COLORED SNAKE in a jar. Simon has a bag of bugs.

Waves the bag in front of the snake. It's forked tongue goes wild.

Simon hands him the bugs. Roger lifts the lid, drops one bug in, and

the snake strikes. The boys jump back, laugh.

INT. PAUL'S KITCHEN. NIGHT

After dinner coffee for the adults. Tatiana, Thomas and Fedens at the

table. Paul, in his usual position, at the head, listening, like

Solomon.

PAUL has listened, now he decides to speak.

Solomon has spoken. Fedens smiles, Tatiana rubs Paul's arm.

EXT. NEIGHBOR'S (SIMON'S) YARD. NIGHT

Roger crawls along his grass tunnel. Then he hears something. He looks

through the reeds toward the street.

HE SEES: Military boots, a cluster of Hutu soldiers in their crisp

Khaki uniforms.

He hears whispering.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Paul, Tatiana, are by Thomas's car. They say good night to their

guests. Anais and Carine sleep in the car.

Paul nods to the old guard to go open the gate. Just then Roger emerges

from the thicket, wide-eyed, afraid.

Paul nods to Tatiana to take Roger inside. Thomas and Fedens grab the

sleeping twins from their car.

Paul goes to his big metal gates and peers through the two inch gap

E

between the gate hinge and the gate post.

EXT. VICTOR'S HOUSE. NIGHT.

HE SEES: (two houses down) the group of Hutu soldiers, clustered around

jeeps, they whisper and point. It's a raid.

Now they move rushing out of view.

The sounds of SPLINTERING WOOD, GLASS BREAKING, CHILDREN'S CRIES, WOMEN

SCREAMING.

Suddenly there's a face, beside Paul's. It's Tatiana.

She looks, sees the soldiers, as they drag a middle-aged man onto the

street.

He is crying, pleading, like a whipped dog.

They watch as Victor is beaten to the jeep. At this point Victor looses

it completely, stops pleading, grabs on to a soldier, clinging,

screaming like a terrified child - like a man who knows he is going to

die. It's a horror.

Tatiana, moves toward the gate handle.

Paul grabs her.

Paul takes her by the arm, leads her to the house.

INT. PAUL'S LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

Thomas and Fedens wait, anxious, as Paul appears.

Tatiana hides her anger.

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Paul lies in bed unable to sleep.   The clock reads 3:00 am.

His turn away indicates the discussion is over.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. MORNING

Paul's car rolls up to the hotel's guard house.

SUPER THE TITLE: APRIL 6th, 1994.

An army jeep is parked just inside. General Bizimungu is in the

passenger seat, talking into a walkie-talkie.

The General gives an I'll see you soon wave.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

The hotel entrance is a mini-jam of airport buses, white UN jeeps,

foreign news crew Land Rovers, and a TV repair van unloading monitors.

Paul marches in, past Zozo the bell hop, who helps the TV men unload.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

The lobby buzzes with activity. At the reception, Gregoire is

surrounded by a BBC news crew: GLORIA, young, chic female

reporter/producer, and JOCK, tough, experienced Scottish cameraman, and

his local sound guy Peter. Gloria is upset.

Jock sees Paul.

Paul moves behind the desk.

He punches into the computer.

Close on the computer: It clearly states BBC - two rooms.   Gregoire

looks to Paul with a mix of puzzlement and anger.

Gloria picks up her bag.

Paul better come up with three rooms fast. Then he spots the reporter

Benedict hovering at the door.

Paul hurries over to Benedict.

Benedict is delighted. They head back across the lobby.

They join the BBC team.

Gloria, a consummate news producer, turns on the charm.

Paul moves off to the desk, Gregoire can barely disguise his pleasure.

Gregoire hands it over. Paul dials.

Paul hangs up, turns to Gregoire.

PAUL heads for the glass doors and sees:

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

General Bizimungu, briefcase in hand, gives the tv interview, He's

confident, controlled Benedict stands close by as Gloria interviews.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul turns, walks past porters ferrying the BBC luggage. He puts his

hand out. Gregoire hands him keys.

Paul does his rounds. He double checks the banquet room where

technicians install several TV monitors and test the signal.

He looks in the kitchen, frenzied activity.

He wanders behind the bar. Everything is 'under control'.

He returns to the lobby, greets Connie, her flustered husband and their

friends, followed by a team of porters and luggage.

Gen. Bizimungu, takes Paul's arm, pulls him aside, hands him his empty

briefcase.

As the General disappears into the bar, Paul waves over the coat check,

hands her the briefcase.

She nods, hurries off just as the BBC crew appears. Paul hands out

keys, greets each.

Jock, the Scottish cameraman, hangs behind as the others leave, takes

his key.

Paul calls Zozo over.

Jock gets the code instantly, as Zozo smiles.

The Scot and Zozo greet, then hurry off.

INT. HOTEL BANQUET ROOM. DAY

Paul supervises waiters hanging a banner.   It reads "Peace, Love, and

Brotherhood! UNAMIR 1994".

INT. HOTEL CONFERENCE ROOM. DAY

Reporters watch rows of TVs. All broadcast the signing of the Arusha

Accords. (Reporters have political chatter.)

CLOSE ON: the TVs as President Habyarimana signs.

All the African reporters in the room CHEER.

Fireworks go off outside the hotel.

Colonel Oliver raises a glass of champagne and leads the room in a

toast.

The room as one raise their glasses.

CLOSE ON: Paul as he nods to a member of the tribal band on the small

stage. Then, African drummers hammer out a fast uplifting beat as the

full troupe of ceremonial dancers skip into the room in celebration.

INT. HOTEL BAR. DAY

Paul checks out the banques. They appear empty, then a voice.

It's General Bizimungu, he is sitting with George Rutagunda now in a

shiny blue suit. A bottle of whiskey on the table is almost gone.

Bizimungu and Rutagunda watch the peace celebration across the lobby.

He pours. George points his glass toward the Europeans.

Rutagunda staggers to his feet, launches into a drunken version of the

Hutu Militia War Dance.

Paul takes George's arm, does two steps of the dance, then   appears to

stumble and shoulder bumps the big man.

George falls into his chair.

Rutagunda bursts out laughing, toasts:

As Paul is forced to join in the toast, Rutagunda laughs, Bizimungu

smiles at some insider joke.

INT. HOTEL CONFERENCE ROOM. EVENING

Reporters and crews pack up their equipment. Paul shakes hands, orders

porters to pick up cases. Then a porter whispers a message to Paul.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. NIGHT

Paul emerges, discovers Fedens and Thomas - they look embarrassed to be

in such exulted surroundings.

EXT. HOTEL POOL TERRACE. NIGHT

Drinks are served at a table as Paul listens to Thomas.

Paul stifles his anger.

BANG - a distant explosion, a flash of light on the far side of the

city. Fedens jumps.

Zozo hands Paul a cordless phone.

THOMAS and Fedens listen.

He hangs up.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. EVENING

Paul escorts Fedens and Thomas to their car.

INT.   PAUL'S CAR. NIGHT

Paul's at the wheel, driving. A thick mist. Barely a car on the road.

Shadows dart past faint house lights. The windscreen clouds. Paul

switches on his wipers. A Toyota truck, loaded with Militia, appears

from the mist, speeds past. Paul switches the preset buttons on the

radio as he drives. He can only find fevered drum-based MUSIC.

EXT. PAUL'S STREET. NIGHT

Paul turns onto his street. The houses are dark: windows shuttered;

gates closed; not a soul about. Paul stops before his gate. HONKS

twice. The gate doesn't open. He hops out and opens it with a key.

Gives it a push and pauses as he heads back to the car. He hears the

far off sound of gunfire. Distant explosions light the night sky.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE. NIGHT

Paul drives in. His compound is curiously dark.     His headlights sweep

across his pitch-black house.

The gates swing shut. We PULL BACK as Paul turns and faces his house.

Paul whistles for the dog, nothing. He goes back to the car, gets a

flashlight, heads for the front door.

INT. PAUL'S LIVING ROOM. NIGHT

The door slowly opens. Paul steps in quietly, tries the light switch,

nothing. He listens. The only sounds are distant explosions and

gunfire. The beam of his flashlight cuts the blackness, illuminating:

magazines arranged on a coffee table; an empty chair; children's toys

in a basket.

INT. PAUL'S KITCHEN. NIGHT

Paul continues his search. Scans the counter. There's food on the

stove. The table is set. He hears a GROWL, quickly cut short, from one

of the bedrooms.

INT. PAUL'S HALL. NIGHT

Paul shines the light into a room. Looks for a second, then closes the

door, and walks to the next. He stops and listens with his ear to the

door. Nothing. He pushes it in.

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM. NIGHT

Paul's light sweeps across the room and illuminates:

Eyes - terrified eyes, a room full of faces, staring back.

THEIR POV: A dark figure behind a blinding light.

The dog breaks free, runs to Paul.

From among the faces, Tatiana's voice heavy with relief.

Paul's eyes adjust, he recognizes many of his neighbors, all crowded

into this small room. Then he sees their friends Odette and her husband

Jean Baptiste.

Tatiana pulls Paul aside.

Jean Baptiste turns on his tiny radio.

The words are cut short as a grenade blast rattles the window. Everyone

jumps, children whimper. Paul is shocked but tries to pull things

together.

He holds the door open, they file out, frightened. Tatiana is last, he

stops her, steps back in, closes the door.

The door knocks.   Paul gets up, angry.

Paul opens the door, it's Odette, holding the hand of Paul's eldest

daughter.

Tatiana comes over instantly, worried.

Their daughter Danielle answers.

EXT. UNDERGROWTH. NIGHT

Roger crawls between the shrubs.      He hears ANGRY VOICES.

He peers through the long grass.

Sees: Hutu soldiers boots, feet in sneakers, bare women's feet. And

among them the glint of machetes, hoes, a club spiked with nails, a

length of chain CLANGING on the ground.

EXT. PAUL'S GARDEN. NIGHT

Tatiana rushes out the front door, Paul after her.

Paul catches her and puts his hand over her mouth.

SHOUTS next door. Paul pulls Tatiana behind the car. A beat. More

SHOUTS. Paul takes his hand from her mouth. She's sobbing.

E

Roger crawls to the gap in the shrubs. Feet, a crowd, leaving, through

a gate. Engines rev.

Roger crawls from the bushes.

Crawls across, the driveway, crawls through a puddle.

Then stops, SEES SOMETHING, AN (UNSEEN) HORROR!

EXT. PAUL'S GARDEN. NIGHT

Paul and Tatiana exit the back of the house with flashlight in hand

headed towards the rear gate.

Paul searches along the chain link fence, finds a section loose, he

pulls it back, clambers underneath it.

Tatiana clasps her mouth, afraid to utter a cry.

EXT. UNDERGROWTH. NIGHT

Paul crawls through this scrub tunnel.

Then he hears BRANCHES SNAPPING.

He moves toward the sound.

Discovers Roger, terrified, thrashing in a tangle of bushes.

He grabs Rogers shirt, pulls him as the little boy startles.

Paul drags his son through the chainlink fence, whisks him up in his

arms and rushes him to the house.

INT. PAUL'S KITCHEN. NIGHT

Paul bursts through the back door and sets Roger down.   Tatiana is

beside them.

Paul turns the flashlight on Roger. Tatiana pulls back in horror:

Roger is covered in blood. Her SCREAMS, stifled by fear.

Hands pull and tear his clothes off. Towels wipe him down. Odette

looks all over his body with the flashlight. Despite the blood Roger

has no injuries.

But Roger, trembling, just stares, totally traumatized. Children cry.

His paralysis freaks the women in the room. Paul turns angrily to them.

He ushers the neighbors out of the room, closes the door.

Tatiana hugs her son.

EXT. KIGALI. DAWN

The faintest grey of dawn over the city. Then a flock of birds rises as

one in the distance. A millisecond later, the cause of their flight, a

grenade explosion, echoes.

The birds dart, in another direction as the STACCATO of a machine gun

rips the air.

INT. PAUL'S BEDROOM. DAWN

PAUL sits on the edge of the bed, staring out the window.

Behind him Tatiana has Roger cradled in her arms, he still trembles

wide eyed as she tries to get him to talk.

Nothing.

The door knocks. The old guard calls in frightened.

He heads for the door.

INT. PAUL'S LIVING ROOM. DAWN

Paul steps out, closes the door behind him. A small delegation of the

men wait nervously.

He holds up the tiny radio, tuned to the BBC World service, a crackly

Brit voice. (It's Gloria the reporter.)

As they listen, a young woman lets out a SQUEAL, and flees the window

where she's been sitting.

Hysteria in the room, women and children push toward the bedroom. Paul

manages to make it to the window, nervously steals a glance and sees:

A HUTU ARMY SOLDIER sits on the high wall by the gate. He pulls another

up beside him.

PAUL'S POV: The soldiers drop into his garden. They draw pistols.

PAUL'S POV: The soldiers go to the gate, slide the bolt, swing it open.

Two jeeps, jammed with heavily armed SOLDIERS, sit in the drive like

many-limbed beasts of war. Paul watches as the jeeps rumble into his

garden. The soldiers jump out.

INSIDE THE ROOM:

Nothing can stop the women and children from fleeing into the bedrooms.

Paul is frozen at the CRASH of rifles on the door.

The door gives, SOLDIERS flood in.

They are startled by the crowd in the living room, rifles raised,

SHOUTS.

Paul pulls himself together, marches over to the soldier.

A Captain is at the door.

He takes Paul by the arm, leads him outside.

EXT. PAUL'S HOUSE. DAWN

The Captain stops by his jeep, studies his clipboard.

Tatiana with Roger in her arms, her kids and all the neighbors herded

together.

Paul pulls it from his pocket, hands it to the Captain.

CLOSE ON: Paul's ID - it reads Ethnicity: HUTU.

The Captain studies him, waves for the soldiers to back off.

The Captain looks confused. Paul quickly:

Paul sees out into the street behind the jeeps: a group of Militia in

their colored shirts armed with machetes, have gathered, trying to see

what is going on.

Tatiana is beside him now.

Tatiana points to the huddled neighbors. Paul is stunned.

She points to the Mille Collines van.

message. He listens.

Tatiana drags the kids and ushers everyone toward the van. In a second,

they are all clambering in.

Paul jumps behind the wheel of the van. Neighbors are jammed in like

sardines, 15, more, inside. Tatiana and their kids are squashed

together on the front bench.

The convoy (jeep - van, car - jeep) starts up and turns out into the

street.

The Militia men wave sticks, machetes.

INT. VAN TRAVELING - DAY

Paul looks back as they speed off down the street.

Sees: The Militia looters pour into his gateway.

As they pass the Caringa home, Militia looters carry off a TV and push

a stove on a child's skateboard.

TATIANA has Roger on her lap, she cradles his head.

EXT. KIGALI STREET. DAY

The convoy speeds through the deserted streets. Slowing only to

maneuver through makeshift roadblocks where Militia wave machetes,

nailed clubs and spears as they dance.

FURTHER ALONG THE ROAD: a group of Militia swarm over a car, smashing

the windshield, the windows. Inside a family huddles together in

terror, waiting for the windows to give way.

In the gutter by the side of the road, three dead bodies.

EXT. HOTEL DIPLOMAT. DAY

The convoy pulls up at this older, shabbier hotel. There are other

jeeps, and several staff in a panic. The janitor, ROBERT, sees Paul,

bursts into waves of joy.

Paul jumps out of the van, hurries to the lead jeep.

The Captain nods to two soldiers.

INT. HOTEL DIPLOMAT LOBBY. DAY

Paul runs through the lobby. The staff look petrified.

INT. HOTEL DIPLOMAT MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul bursts into the room. The two soldiers follow.

He goes to the hotel's big old combination safe, spins the combination

a few times, tries the handle, clunk! It doesn't open. He's forgotten

the number.

The soldiers look at him impatiently. Paul improvises.

The soldiers fall over each other to get to the fridge.

Paul tries the safe numbers again, clunk! It opens.

He sees: a big bunch of keys, a wad of dollars, Rwandan francs, a check

book, and several bottles of the best cognac, whiskey, some Cristal.

He looks round nervously but the two soldiers are busy fighting over

the beer and chocolates in the fridge.

belt, pulls his shirt over and shuts the safe door.

He is about to leave.

Paul looks back at the soldier.

Paul sits, as the two soldiers guzzle beers and stuff chocolate into

their pockets.

INT. HOTEL DIPLOMAT LOBBY. DAY

Paul hurries through the lobby toward the entrance.

EXT. HOTEL DIPLOMAT ENTRANCE. DAY

Paul emerges to see:

All of the occupants of the van, Tatiana, his kids, Odette on their

knees, with their hands on their heads.

The Captain hovers over them, pistol in hand, turns, sees Paul. He

marches toward him and SLAPS HIM HARD on the face.

Paul reels from the blow, but manages to stay on his feet.

The Captain snatches a bunch of ID cards from a soldier, hurls the

cards in Paul's face.

He grabs Paul by the scruff of the neck, pushes him toward the kneeling

captives. The Captain snatches a pistol from one of his soldiers,

shoves it into Paul's hand.

Paul looks at him.

The Captain raises his own pistol and FIRES it. Everyone jumps with

fright.

The Captain aims his pistol at Paul's head. Cocks the hammer.

The Captain laughs.

The Captain laughs, snatches the gun from Paul, marches toward them.

Paul reaches into his pocket, pulls out the bunch of dollars.

The Captain looks at his soldiers, at the wad of notes.

Paul runs over, grabs Tatiana, Roger, the three girls. Odette kneels

beside Tatiana. Paul whispers.

Paul pushes his family toward the van, looks back, sees the Captain

pocket the dollars, move toward the line.

Paul pushes them into the van, shuts the door, digs into his soul for

all the courage he can muster, then turns back.

The Captain hesitates. Paul sees this, runs over to the line of

neighbors.

A pathetic rain of Rwandan francs, useless coins, watches, jewelry

falls onto the ground. Paul scoops it all up.

T

he Captain looks at it, takes it, then:

The Captain raises his pistol.

Now each terrified neighbor looks to Paul, begging.

Paul counts the kneeling figures: ten adults, four kids.

The Captain points the gun.

The Captain smiles.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. DAY

The convoy pulls up at the outer gates of the Mille Collines. It's

manned by ARMED UN PEACEKEEPERS.

The Captain nods to Paul's children.

Paul jumps into the Rwandan army jeep.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Chaos - UN jeeps, hotel vans, dismayed tourists, frightened Tutsi

refugees.

CLOSE ON: Bik, the Dutch manager, bag packed, anxious, sees Paul.

YELLS.

But Paul ignores Bik, barrels his way through the din and crush of the

parking lot.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul rushes in:   The lobby is filled with Tutsi refugees, and scared

white tourists.

Paul.

Paul rushes to the accounting room behind the reception desk, closes

the door.

INT. HOTEL OFFICE. DAY

Paul pulls bundles of dollars from the hotel safe.

EXT. HOTEL. DAY

Paul pushes through the mob at the door. Bik comes up.

Paul breaks free and hurries over to the Army jeep.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. DAY

Paul jumps from the jeep. Waves to Tatiana in the van, then gives the

money to the Captain.

No response. Money in hand, the Captain eyes Paul with malice.

The Captain smiles, then jumps in his jeep and speeds off. Paul runs to

the van and jumps in.

INSIDE THE VAN

Jubilation, in the rear of the van. Odette is in tears.

Paul doesn't reply. Tatiana hugs him. He gives her a look - a mix of

relief and anger - the crowd in the back almost cost him his family.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul's van arrives. Bik hangs from a minibus.

He flings office keys to Paul.

Bik's van takes off. A group of tourists hears Bik's words.

Paul looks at them.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

At the desk, the same receptionist is overwhelmed.

Paul goes behind the desk. Rumors fly among the crowd of tourists.

Behind the tourists, Tatiana and the neighbors look lost.

Paul addresses the frightened Western tourists.

Paul turns to the room key boxes, nearly all are empty.

Finally he finds a key, pushes through to Tatiana, hands a key to

Odette and Jean Baptiste.

Paul starts to lead his family away.

Paul looses it.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY

Paul hurries his family along the corridor. Rwandan refugees wander

aimlessly pulling their meagre possessions.

Paul finds his room and opens the door.

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAY

PAUL leads his family into a one-bedroom suite. The kids drop to the

beds exhausted. Tatiana picks up the phone and dials.

Paul paces the room. The maids clearly haven't cleaned it since it's

last occupants: the beds are unmade; towels are on the floor; and a

newspaper is scattered across the desk.

So Paul tidies the place. As he does,

Paul leaves.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul waits, then a car pulls up, an Indian businessman, Mr. Garindi,

gets out, shakes hands, he's shaken.

He hands Mr. Garindi an address.

Mr. Garindi climbs back into his car.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul stops just shy of the lobby. Around the corner is a mob of angry

guests. Paul takes a moment to gather himself: straightens his tie;

button his jacket; flick a piece of lint from his shoulder. Then he

takes a breath and steps around the corner.

The mob rushes him.

Paul works the front desk as angry guests surge all around him. Zozo

emerges from the office with two tourists.

Paul storms off.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - DAY

CLOSE ON: A door with a placard reading "Presidential Suite".   Paul

knocks. The door opens. Gregoire answers, half-naked.

Gregoire closes the door. Paul's eyes burn with anger, but this battle

will have to wait.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul comes into the lobby and discovers Colonel Oliver, he is escorting

a tall, well-dressed man, the Tutsi Minister of Finance XAVIER and his

family.

He moves over to Zozo.

There's a commotion by the door. Paul goes over.

A valet stops a group of Tutsi refugees from entering.

Paul studies the group, - a ragged bunch, no way are they Mille

Collines guest material.

Paul sees: UN Colonel Oliver giving an interview to the BBC in front of

the hotel.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul approaches the BBC reporter Gloria and Colonel Oliver as their

interview concludes.

Colonel Oliver shakes Gloria's hand then moves off toward Paul.

PAUL moves to the door, where Jock and Gloria argue beside a saloon car

with the word `press' spelt out in tape on the wind sreen

She walks off.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul works his way through the crowds in the lobby, sees a trolley of

dishes by an elevator, looks around, can't see any staff. Disgusted, he

pushes the trolley himself.

INT. HOTEL KITCHEN. DAY

Paul pushes the trolley into the deserted kitchen. At the back door,

several cooks listen to the radio.

The cooks halfheartedly slouch back to the sinks.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. NIGHT

The lobby is overflowing with refugees. Paul stands with phone to ear.

Zozo walks up.

Paul heads for the back office.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. NIGHT

A neat corporate office.

Paul picks up the phone.

INT. SABENA PRESIDENT'S OFFICE. BRUSSELS. NIGHT

Several executive officers sit across from Sabena President GODEFROID

around a speaker phone.

This is really bad news. Paul can't allow them to close.

IN THE SABENA PRESIDENT

He looks at the others.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. NIGHT

Paul waits by the fax, then it spits out a single page.

INT. HOTEL BANQUET ROOM. NIGHT

Every member of the hotel staff is gathered together. Paul addresses

them as Zozo hands out copies of a fax.

No one moves.

A hand goes up.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. MORNING

Paul emerges to find more refugees, some settled on the lawn, others

gathered in clumps by the doorway.

Paul calls over to the valet.

Suddenly women and children on the lawn scream and run in fear. Behind

them bushes shake, then suddenly a bloody figure wearing only boxer

shorts bursts out from among the trees and flees to the middle of the

driveway. It's the journalist, BENEDICT, covered in blood. His ear has

been chopped off.

PANDEMONIUM. As Paul runs to him, calls to Zozo.

Paul grabs Benedict, tries to calm him.

He points down the driveway. This sparks many of the women refugees,

and white guests, to flee inside the hotel.

Odette arrives with her bag, leads Benedict inside.

Jock has been filming all of this.

EXT. HOTEL DRIVEWAY. DAY

Now Jock runs, camera still on his shoulder, toward the gate.

Paul takes off after him.

More Tutsi refugees running up the driveway in fear.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. DAY

As Jock films, Paul arrives by the gate house. UN soldiers watch the

outside road. Engines roar, then.

A convoy of Toyota trucks circle on the road outside the gate. Drunken

Militia men on the back wave spears, machetes, one, in a woman's disco

wig, waves a cordless power drill. The drill bit is red with blood.

In the next truck, TWO Militia MEN triumphantly taunt the UN soldiers

as they hold blue UN helmets high on sticks. The helmets are shot

through with holes.

ENRAGED UN SOLDIERS cock their weapons, aim.

A UN armored car races past the Militia and turns into the driveway.

The back door opens, UN Colonel Oliver jumps out.

The Colonel stabilizes the situation, his men watch the militia drive

by. Paul approaches Oliver

Oliver shakes his head. He helps Paul clamber into the armored car.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul follows Oliver as he marches through the lobby. Several reporters

surround them.

Paul watches the UN command disappear into an elevator.

EXT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY

Paul is in the corridor, talking to Tatiana.

There's a clank of metal. Paul looks and sees:

A waiter struggling with a trolley of food by a door.

He hurries to help the waiter as Jock opens, indicates quiet, waves

Paul and the waiter in.

INT. HOTEL BBC ROOM. DAY

The room is set up as a make-shift broadcast center.

Gloria is on a phone to the BBC in London, she hangs up.

She fixes her outfit, sits straight up in the chair. Behind her two

monitors show footage of a plane crash and bodies along roads.

Gloria on the phone, listens.

Jock turns to Paul.

Jock points skyward.

She hangs up.

Jock's is at the window scanning with his camera, getting b roll, then

he sees something.

Jock's filming as Peter makes the connection.

Jock focuses

On the monitor: blurry focus of a shanty town on a hill.

NOW FOCUS: Of a crowd hovering close to a group of Rwandan Tutsis

seated on the ground. Two Militia emerge from the crowd, waving

machetes. They SLASH their way along the line, savage, powerful blows,

butchering people like cattle.          (Author note: we will use real

news footage of this)

On Screen: The crowd run off, waving machetes.

Gloria snaps out of her shock, snatches the phone, dials.

She puts the phone down, turns to the others, triumphant.

An embarrassed silence in the room. Jock is disgusted by her glee. He

picks up a plate from the trolley.

She storms out. Paul fills the embarrassed silence.

EXT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. EVENING

The businessman Mr. Garindi knocks on room 211. Paul opens the door,

sees him, then turns back to Tatiana.

Tatsi appears at the door with several of the kids.

The kids do as they're told. Paul and Tatsi shut the door and join the

businessman in the hall.

Tatiana clings to Paul, fearful of the news.

The businessman shakes his head no. Tears run down Tatiana's face. She

holds Paul's arm to stop from falling to the floor.

Paul takes a small wad of notes from his pocket, presses it into the

businessman's hand.

He leaves. Tatiana pulls Paul to her.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul and Tatiana push through the French tourists and AID workers

running across the lobby.

Cheers break out. Paul and Tatsi peer from the crowd and through the

lobby window see:

EXT. HOTEL DRIVEWAY. DAY

French and Italian special forces pull into the parking lot, standing

tall in their jeeps, macho western super troops, triumphant. Salvation!

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Wild cheering, flowers draped around necks, kisses. Westerners,

Rwandans, dance and sing in celebration.

Paul SEES: Colonel Oliver off to the side, with the commanders of the

French special forces.

CLOSE ON:

Oliver pulls off his blue beret, throws it on the ground, points his

finger at the French and Italian officers.

He walks off, returns, picks up his beret.

Paul watches as he storms into the lobby.

Paul follows.

INT. HOTEL BAR. DAY

Paul follows the Colonel into the Kigali Club. The place is empty, the

bartender missing, gone to celebrate.

Paul gets behind the bar.

Oliver cracks a weary smile. Paul pours two drinks, slides one across.

He raises his glass.

Paul doesn't answer.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. DAY

Paul opens the door. Tatiana and the kids pack bags, prepare to leave.

Tatiana and the children stop what they're doing, puzzled.

The kids leave.

Paul takes her hands in his.

Tatiana's grip tightens.

Tatiana clings to hope.

Paul looses it.

He looks up at her.

He takes her hand, makes her sit down.

Tatiana's eyes are wide with fear.

Paul takes his anger out on Tatiana.

He storms out.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

REVEAL: A chaos of luggage, white tourists, AID agency people, Italian

and French soldiers, elite, slick.

On the edges, clumps of Rwandans, watching, silent, fearful.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

A torrential African rain storm soaks everything. Porters with big

umbrellas run the white evacuees to the buses.

French and Italian commanders check off names on clipboards.

Jock films the evacuees boarding buses.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

At the front desk, Paul, dripping wet from working the convoy,    listens

to a French tourist who refuses to pay his bill.

Paul, stone-faced, polite, destroys this asshole.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul watches in the rain as the final agency people are being loaded

onto buses.

Several white aid workers weep uncontrollably as they are dragged away

from frightened Rwandan coworkers.

Jock and his sound man embrace two beautiful young HOOKERS.

One girl begs Jock to take her with him.

He digs in his pockets, pulls out money, cigarettes. Everything he has

he gives to her.

Then he pulls her toward Paul, digs out his wallet.

He pushes two Visa cards into Paul's hands.

Jock pulls a Rolex off his wrist.

Jock embraces Paul, tears in his eyes.

Gloria watches from the doorway. Embarrassed by Jock, She becomes

officious.

Gloria marches onto the bus.

Jock kisses the hooker, heaves his camera onto the bus.

Then there is a disturbance on the driveway.

A group of French nuns, along with maybe a hundred Tutsi women and

children come running up the driveway. They are all terrified. One nun

leads them with a French flag.

French soldiers run forward. A commander orders them to form   a line,

blocking the refugees.

French soldiers begin pulling nuns from the terrified crowd.

Several nuns begin hysterically weeping, pulling Rwandan children with

them. Panic breaks out among the crowd.

INT/EXT. BUS. DAY

Jock grabs his camera, pushes off the bus.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Nuns cling to young children. French soldiers wrench the nuns away,

lift them off their feet, carry them to the bus.

JOCK films, as A FRENCH OFFICER screams at him.

The last nun is dragged onto a bus.

Jock looks to Paul, then gets on the bus.

The convoy - French jeeps, buses, Italian jeeps, UN jeeps takes off,

through the refugees, turns a corner, gone.

Paul, drenched, is left alone to fend for his new guests:

Weeping women, frightened children.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. DAY

The convoy passes the gate house.

Across the road, two jeeps of Rwandan Army soldiers watch the convoy

leave. They get on the radio.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Where five minutes before the lobby was a frenzy of wealthy Europeans

and aid workers, the groups of clustered black faces are silent except

for the crying of babies and sobbing mothers. Paul picks his way among

them. Zozo catches up.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. DAY.

Paul enters, drops to the bed. Tatiana curls up next to him.

Paul puts on his walkman earphones, presses play, the rich cowboy drawl

of Don Williams singing ???

Close on: Paul as his eyes droop and to the music.

A kalidiscope of colors filter through drooping eyelids as

Close on Paul's face, as the music plays.

His eyes open wide, disturbed, music playing

Paul's POV, an Army lieutenant stands over him, other soldiers around.

The lieutenant reaches down, pulls the earphones from Paul's ears.

The lieutenant is not impressed.

'Cold drinks' softens the soldiers' attitudes.

The soldiers march off. Paul goes back inside. The kids, sensing the

menace, sit still and wide-eyed on the floor. Suddenly Tatiana notices

Roger is missing.

Danielle points to under the bed.

CLOSE ON:

Roger trembling under the bed, as Paul's face appears.

He slides him out, clutches him in his arms, then turns him over to

Tatiana as he phones the front desk.

He turns to Tatiana.

He hurries out.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY

Paul's door opens, his head appears round the corner.

The corridor is empty of soldiers. Now, frightened Tutsis peer out from

their rooms. A group of men, among them the politician Xavier, are

gathered in the hallway. Paul spots one man holding a pistol. He runs

up.

Paul pulls the gun off him.

Paul hands the gun to Xavier, hurries off.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul bursts in, sits by the phone and dials.

Phone again.

A SERIES OF FLASH CUTS: increasingly frantic calls.

ANOTHER CALL:

ANOTHER CALL:

Paul hangs up the phone defeated. He looks at his watch. His head flops

onto the desk, onto the Sabena logo. He sees it.

INT. SABENA PRESIDENT'S OFFICE. DAY

The Sabena president and two VPs sit on couches.

His intercom buzzes, he's annoyed then.

The president goes to the phone, hits the speaker button.

The president is baffled.

The president can barely form words to reply.

He hits the hold button. Looks to the other executives. They are

stunned to silence by Paul's profound farewell.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul listens to music on the phone.

INT. SABENA EXTERIOR OFFICES. DAY

Pandemonium - the president has everyone working the phones.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

The music is suddenly interrupted.

Paul thinks.

Paul hurries from the room.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Zozo at the computer, printing something. Paul walks up, sees: The

Hotel's Registry printing. Paul grabs it, studies.

He pushes Zozo toward the elevator.

Now Paul is on the computer, typing.

ON SCREEN: The register shows that day's date: April 13.

Paul hits a few keys.

ON SCREEN: The date above the register is April 4.

Paul hits the print button. The printer clicks to life.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul with the printed registry and Zozo with beer walk to the jeeps.

The soldiers don't wait for the Captain's order, they mob Zozo, grab

beers. The lieutenant marches up to Paul.

Paul hands him the printout. He studies it, reads.

The lieutenant grabs Paul by the shirt.

Paul turns to walk back in. The lieutenant hurries to his men, pulls

beers from their hands, smashes them on the ground. One soldier comes

running to him with a radio. Paul watches. The lieutenant listens, then

calls to Paul.

Paul returns.

The soldiers roar off down the driveway.

EXT. HOTEL ROOF. DAY

Paul emerges onto the roof, sees Tatiana, his children, and many of the

neighbors sitting huddled together. (They do not know the soldiers have

left.)

Tatiana is frozen to the spot.

Tatiana grabs him. Tears of joy. Paul's neighbors swarm him, touch him,

thank him like a messiah. This effects him. He seems genuinely moved as

he shakes hands and hugs them.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul arrives behind the front desk.

Paul hits the button.

INT. SABENA PRESIDENT'S OFFICE. BRUSSELS. DAY

Gotfroid is at his desk.

Silence.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

The elite of the Tutsi refugees, those with contacts or friends abroad,

are gathered in the office.

The others look stunned.

Paul leaves.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul looks around the lobby. It resembles a refugee center more than a

five star hotel.

He turns to a computer, calls up the register, then hits DELETE and

erases the register.

He picks up the phone, calls.

Paul strides across the lobby, calls to Zozo.

They herd together quickly.

About fifty percent of the hands go up.

The carpenters arrive beside Paul.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY

Paul going door to door, knocking. The rooms are all packed with Tutsi

refugees. A door opens.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY.

Paul knocks on a door. The Tutsi politician Xavier opens the door, sees

that it is Paul.

INT. HOTEL LUXURY SUITE. DAY

A beautiful two-bedroom suite. Xavier lives in comfort compared to the

other refugees.

Paul leaves, Xavier looks shocked.

MONTAGE

Paul and influential refugees, Odette, Benedict (with a bandage over

his missing ear), Xavier and others call, plead, write and send faxes

all around the world. We see this NIGHT and DAY; DAY and NIGHT --

Zozo arrives.

EXT. HOTEL POOL TERRACE. DAY

The pool patio is deserted except for General Bizimungu and three

soldiers who lounge at a table. Gregoire and his girlfriend sun on

reclining deck chairs like movie stars. Paul and a waiter with a tray

of drinks join the General.

Paul hands the scotch to Bizimungu.

Paul points surreptitiously to the sky. The General looks up.

The General looks again to the sky then.

INT. HOTEL CELLAR. DAY

Paul fills Bizimungu's briefcase with scotch, hands two six-packs of

beer to Zozo. Paul notes his once packed storeroom, now considerably

dwindled in stock.

EXT. HOTEL POOL TERRACE. AFTERNOON

Paul arrives back at the pool, hands Bizimungu his briefcase. Zozo

gives the beer to the soldiers.

Bizimungu understands this is a financial proposition.

Paul nods over toward Gregoire.

Gregoire, who is lying face down on the deck chair, doesn't see him

approach. The General pulls the deck chair from underneath Gregoire and

throws it into the pool. As Gregoire tries to scramble to his feet, the

General propels him forward with a massive kick up the ass.

Gregoire races from the pool, followed by his girlfriend.

The General clicks his fingers and his soldiers follow.

INT. LOBBY. DAY

Benedict greets Paul in the lobby.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul walks in and discovers the office packed with the elite Tutsi

refugees including Xavier, Odette and Jean Baptiste. Paul's puzzled,

there's an air of tension in the room.

A brief silence, then a Tutsi bank manager speaks.

Another accuser speaks up.

Murmurs of agreement. Paul has heard enough.

Silence.

PAUL pulls money from his pocket, hands it around, offers it.

He walks among them.

Paul holds the door open.

They hurry out, duly chastised. But Odette and her husband Jean

Baptiste remain.

Paul hasn't got an answer for that one. He leads them out.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT

Roger is asleep, on a couch in the living room, several kids sleep on

the floor.

TO THE BED: Where Tatiana suppresses bursts of laughter as Paul relates

the Gregoire story in whispers.

PAUL mimics Gregoire's whimpers of fear.

Paul lifts the bottle of fine bordeaux, pours more.

They both chuckle, then Paul remembers, a cloud of anxiety comes over

him.

She kisses him.

She kisses him again, tries to cheer him.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

The lobby is deserted except for Gregoire now neatly dressed.

Gregoire nods, impressed.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAWN

A thick mist blankets the grounds as Paul and Gregoire emerge.

INT. VAN. DAWN

They pass the gate, the policemen are asleep in the box.

The van passes along the deserted main road, past a wrecked car, over

broken glass, the fog swirls around them.

Then Gregoire hits the brakes.

In front of them, a makeshift barricade, long poles stretched across

two oil drums.

They wait for someone to appear from the fog: No one.

Paul wants to agree, but can't. He opens his door.

EXT. ROAD. DAY

Paul gets out, tentative.

Nothing. He moves to the barrier, lifts the pole, places it on the

ground, hurries back to the van.

INT. VAN. DAWN

They drive past the barricade.

The van weaves through the fog-enshrouded streets.

shredded and soaked in blood, is draped like a banner.

EXT. RUTAGANDA'S WAREHOUSE. DAWN

The fog still hangs like a cloud. As they pull up, a group of young

Militia emerge from Toyota trucks.

Paul and Gregoire hand over their ID cards. The Militia man studies

them, then pockets the cards.

Then from out of the fog, three Toyota trucks roar up. George

Rutagunda, heavily armed, in cut-off shorts and an open shirt, his

barrel chest laden with bandoliers, jumps out.

Rutagunda strides over.

Paul climbs out, greets George, as a Militia man swings open the doors

of the warehouse. They walk in.

INT. RUTAGANDA'S WAREHOUSE. DAY

The warehouse is filled with looted televisions, artwork, cars. George

points to the stacks of beer.

Paul counts out the Rwandan francs.

Paul's stomach heaves. He hides it, turns over the money, gets in the

van with Gregoire. George comes to the passenger window.

Paul says nothing, but Gregoire has been listening very carefully.

The van takes off.

INT. VAN. DAWN

The fog has gotten thicker. They can barely see a yard ahead.

The van begins to bump erratically. Bump, bump, bump.

The van jerks to a halt.

EXT. RIVER ROAD. DAWN

Paul clambers out, stumbles, falls.

And discovers he's looking at the face of a dead child, a young Tutsi

girl, her hands clasped on her ears as though to block the sound of her

own death - an African Munz's Scream.

Paul clambers to his feet, sees that the van is on a road littered with

dead bodies, men, women, children.

A breeze from the lake blows the fog clear for thirty feet.

REVEALING: a carpet of bodies, hundreds of them sprawled all along the

road as far as Paul can see. Paul wanders stunned among misshapen

corpses, made more ghostly by wisps of fog.

Finally, Paul clambers shell-shocked back into the van.

Gregoire throws the van into reverse.

horror.

EXT. HOTEL REAR DELIVERY AREA. DAY

The van pulls up at the rear suppliers entrance. Paul hops out, turns

to Gregoire.

Gregoire, Zozo and the porters begin unloading the van.

EXT. HOTEL GARDENS. DAY

Paul wanders to a bench set back in a manicured grove of bushes. Beyond

him a crowd of Rwandan refugee children play in the swimming pool,

laughing, jumping, splashing like they were at a municipal pool in

Central Park.

P

PAUL watches. Tears stream from his eyes, the stream grows into a

flood, he buries his face in his hands.

Then a voice.

Paul wipes his eyes, turns.

A little boy stands behind him, holding out his arm.

Then Paul sees what is wrong. The boy Has a big thorn imbedded in the

muscle of his arm. Paul studies it.

Paul pulls on the thorn, the kid doesn't flinch.

Paul picks him up, carries him to the pool, throws him in.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT

Tatiana feeds the children - rice and beans. Paul arrives.

Roger tries to speak, struggles to mouth the words but nothing comes

out, as though he has forgotten. Tears form in his eyes.

He hugs him, puts him back at his food, then takes Tatiana's hand,

leads her to the door.

They slip out.

INT. HOTEL ROOF DOOR. NIGHT

Tatiana stops.

EXT. HOTEL ROOF. NIGHT

Paul slips out onto the roof. Tatiana follows. Artillery and mortar

fire rumble in the distance. Flashes silhouette along the far hills

above Kigali.

He leads her to a blanket, a candle, two glasses and the bottle of

wine. They sit. He opens the wine.

They kiss.

She kisses him, they lie back on the roof, kiss passionately.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul instructs the porters to clean around the entrance.

The UN armored car comes up the driveway. Colonel Oliver gets out,

strides across the tarmac, he shakes Paul's hand.

I

The sweetest words Paul has ever heard.

INT. HOTEL BANQUET ROOM. DAY

room he has a list in his hand.

He reads.

CLOSE ON: Elation among the chosen families.

CLOSE ON - Fear on the faces of families who realize they have missed

this alphabetical list, anxiety among the others.

Tatiana kisses Paul.

Paul's POV: Odette and Jean Baptiste are silently devastated. He pushes

through to the Colonel now surrounded by those who didn't make the

list.

Paul nods yes. Tatiana arrives beside him, pulls him aside.

She reluctantly nods yes.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Mr. Garindi waits nervously in the lobby.

Paul arrives.

The businessman turns back.

Paul spots an elegant woman carrying laundry toward the elevator. He

runs to her.            P

Paul leads her over.

Paul signs, then hands the pen to the puzzled woman.

She signs. Paul pushes the deed into the man's hand.

The businessman heads for the door.

Paul watches him go.

The Mr. Garindi leaves.

EXT. HOTEL GARDENS. NIGHT

Paul skirts the little groups of poor families bivouacked on the lawn.

The smoke of cooking fires has replaced the Tiki lanterns. The grounds

are a mini refugee camp.

Paul joins Tatiana, Odette and Jean Baptiste who sit at a table by the

pool.

ZOZO arrives, with beers, serves them, is about to leave. Tatiana grabs

him by the arm.

Zozo is shocked by this breach of protocol but sits.

He embraces Jean Baptiste

Odette hugs and kisses him.

Paul takes Zozo in his arms.

A unbreakable bond of faith with each other.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

The lucky families are gathered: Tatiana and all her children; Xavier

and his wife; Benedict; and others.

Some of the unlucky ones peer around the door of the ballroom. A UN

officer stands in their way.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

The UN convoy waits outside.   Tatiana waits nervously as Paul   checks

his watch.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul is in a horrible mood. The refugees in the ballroom try to push by

the UN officer. Paul joins him.

Zozo scampers off.

Paul herds the convoy people toward the door.

CLOSE ON: Gregoire watching from behind the front desk.

Through the doors we see the trucks being loaded.

Zozo returns.

Reluctant, Paul walks over to the ballroom dwellers.

Paul reaches out for the letters, takes them, reads the addresses:

President Nelson Mandela. Pope John Paul. President Clinton.

Zozo hands Paul the letter. He studies the address. It reads "To the

great man Muhammad Ali."

Paul's at a loss. He has to tear himself away.

EXT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

The last of the evacuees clamber onto the UN trucks. The children are

on board but Tatiana waits.

He checks his watch, then takes her in his arms.

Paul helps Tatiana on board. He looks toward the door.

POV: The unlucky refugees are now crowded at the windows, lost souls

watching out from their prison at the lucky ones.

Paul whispers to Benedict as he boards.

INT. TRUCK DAY

Paul clambers on beside him.   He reaches Tatiana as Benedict sits

beside her.

Paul backs off. Tatiana tries to follow. Benedict grabs her.

A commotion as she tries to get up.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY.

The truck starts up. Paul runs beside it, shouts to Tatiana.

Then another voice.

The convoy takes off down the driveway.

Paul, Zozo and other refugees cluster by the door.

ZOZO looks round,

I

Sees: Gregoire put a phone down.

INT. UN JEEP. DAY

UN Colonel Oliver sits next to a UN PAKISTANI DRIVER.

proceeds unheeded.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. DAY

The room is still littered with clothes, kids drawings, the personal

junk accumulated over four weeks.

Paul tries to arrange things, then collapses on the bed, paralysed with

doubt - Why did he do this?

Then the door bangs.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY

The door springs open, Paul confronts Zozo.

INT. HOTEL KITCHEN. DAY

Paul and Zozo burst into the kitchen. The cooks and others are

clustered, listening to the radio.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul bursts out of the kitchen - enraged.

Gregoire is at the front desk. Sees Paul - understands instantly.

Gregoire takes off, running for his life.

EXT. HOTEL GARDENS. DAY

Paul chases after him, through the door.

Gregoire disappears into the thicket of trees.

Paul after him.

Through the trees.

Gregoire, younger, faster, climbs the high wire fence.

Finally, Paul reaches the fence.

Sees Gregoire escape into the bushes on the other side of the fence.

Paul gives up, turns back toward the hotel.

INT. JEEP TRAVELLING. DAY

As the UN jeep turns a bend, Colonel Oliver SEES crowds of Interahamwe

swarming from beside houses, from gardens. They pull burning tires, old

furniture, junk onto the road.

INT. TRUCK TRAVELLING. DAY

The UN truck suddenly lurches, then slows.    The refugees from the Mille

Collines grow alarmed.

INT. HOTEL OFFICE. DAY

Paul is on the fax phone, begging.

EXT. KIGALI STREET JUNCTION. DAY

Swarms of crazed Militia fill the road. Gun fire breaks out.

Colonel Oliver steps from the jeep, waving his pistol in the air.

M

INSIDE THE TRUCK:

Benedict is hauled off the truck. Beaten.

Tatiana protects her kids in a corner, kicking at the hands that grab

for her.

ON THE STREET: Xavier falls to the ground.

Screams, shouts, MORE SHOTS.

Oliver fights his way through to Xavier.

Oliver points his pistol.

The crowd backs off slightly.

Xavier gets to his feet.

BANG - more gun fire. IMMACULATA falls, wounded in the foot.

More are dragged from the trucks. Machetes flash in the sun.

Then HORNS, GUNFIRE - RWANDAN SOLDIERS drive through the crowd in two

jeeps. The crowd scatters, then re-forms as Rwandan soldiers push

between the Militia and the refugees.

As they do, another Militia gunman steps out, fires wildly at the

refugees, but wounds A RWANDAN SOLDIER in the stomach.

Suddenly fights erupt between the Militia and the soldiers.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul paces up and down, he can hear gunfire in the distance.

MACHINE GUNFIRE - THEN SINGLE SHOTS.

Paul jumps in the van, guns the engine, drives.

EXT. HOTEL FRONT GATE. DAY.

Paul's van speeds toward the gate.

THEN - A LOUD METALLIC SCREECHING NOISE

As a UN JEEP, its tires shot out, sparks cascading from wheel rims,

screams up to the guard house.

Paul slams on the brakes.

The jeep is followed by the two trucks, their canvas slashed fluttering

in the wind.

Paul throws the van into reverse and clears the way.

The convoy pulls up in front of the hotel.

Bloody and battered, the terrified refugees fall from the trucks.

Paul and Odette run among the casualties. Then he sees them:

Tatiana, clothes torn, scratches on her face.

The kids screaming in terror.

Battered refugees everywhere, other hotel residents looking on -

equally terrified because: They know they are doomed.

Paul sees Roger, trembling, tears soak his face.

He grabs Roger up. Tatiana struggles to Paul, embraces.

Tatiana breaks from the embrace.

Paul shakes his head no.

EXT. HOTEL GARDENS. DAY

Paul sits alone on his secluded bench in the garden.

As he watches several women dip cooking pots into the pool.

P              There is no water from the pipes.

PAUL heads for the front doors. He's intercepted by the two Rwandan

policemen stationed at the gate by Bizimungu.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul enters, sees Zozo.

INT. HOTEL MANAGER'S OFFICE. DAY

Paul enters. Odette, Benedict watch CNN on the TV.

PAUL shakes his head in disbelief.

A state department woman gives a press conference.

ON TV:

Everyone in the room is dumbfounded.

Then Benedict begins laughing, a maniacal laugh, then he bangs on his

chest, and hoots like a chimpanzee.

They all stare as he begins beating his chest, and hopping about like

an ape.

Benedict hops up onto a desk.

The door flies open. It's General Bizimungu.

He surveys the room, then points at Paul.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR. DAY.

Bizimungu looks terrible, an alcoholic suffering D.T.s.

Paul pulls a bundle of notes, hands them to the General.

The General storms off.

INT. LOBBY. DAY

Paul walks through the lobby. He carries an ash tray to a trash can,

the futile task of a dedicated hotel manager on auto-pilot. He sees a

UN jeep pull up outside.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Paul meets the UN soldiers, (They are the four Ghanians who guard the

gate). They look frightened.

Then ROAR of an engine and the CRASH of splintering wood.

As a battered Toyota pickup appears, it races up the driveway. The

truck drags the wooden gatehouse on a rope behind.

Crazed Militia pack the bed of the pickup.

BANG, BANG, BANG. A Militia man fires a pistol into the air.

The Tutsi refugees camped on the lawn flee in panic as the Militia

truck speeds around the driveway.

The Militia taunt and yell at the Tutsi refugees.

The truck does a screeching turn and heads back down the driveway,

leaving a trail of splintered wood.

Now the Ghanians are really frightened.

EXT. HOTEL GARDENS. NIGHT

Paul and Tatiana pass the clusters of families around their cooking

fires. They pass the pool, now just a third full. He sits her on the

bench in the grove.

He takes her hand.

He kisses her, total love.

She puts her hands to her ears. He pulls them down.

She cries harder and squeezes his hand in fear.

of fire - an RPG rocket - zigzags toward the hotel.

A HUGE EXPLOSION on the wall, one-story beneath the roof.

Paul throws Tatiana to the ground, covers her.

S

INT. HOTEL STORE ROOM. NIGHT

Paul, Zozo stand amongst the debris: a gaping hole in a wall. The room

is covered in burned note papers, menus brochures for Sabena's two

hotels, the Mille Collines and the Diplomat.

Odette appears carrying her medical bag.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. NIGHT

Colonel Oliver arrives in his armored truck. Paul, Odette, Benedict and

others gather around him.

The crowd disperses. Colonel Oliver takes Paul aside.

Colonel   Oliver hands a letter.

Colonel Oliver leaves. Their is nothing more Paul can do.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT

Tatiana is beside him. He opens the envelope, finds his makeshift house

deed and a note.

INT. HOTEL PAUL'S ROOM. NIGHT

Paul sleeps fitfully. It is almost dawn, then he sits up.

Tatiana wakens, startled.

INT. OFFICE. DAWN

Paul is on the one working phone.

...But the line is already dead.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Bizimungu's jeeps arrives at the hotel. Paul greets him.

Paul clambers in the back.

INT. JEEP TRAVELLING. DAY

The jeep turns away from the Mille Collines front gate.

They travel at high speed along the road. Then the driver sounds his

horn, because...

Paul sees: A large crowd of Militia marching along the road toward the

hotel, waving machetes and sticks.

EXT./INT. DIPLOMAT HOTEL. DAY

Paul arrives into the lobby of the Diplomat. Looters have stripped the

place bare. The convoy pulls up. General Bizimungu stands with his

pistol out. The looters see him and disperse.

INT. DIPLOMAT HOTEL OFFICE. DAY

Paul enters the manager's office, followed by the General. It has been

stripped clean, except for the safe, which is pock-marked with bullet

strikes.

Paul goes to the safe and turns the dials, tries the handle - nothing.

It is incredibly hot, and Paul is soaked with nervous perspiration, he

takes off his jacket.

Bizimungu's look says: it better not be for your sake.

Paul starts again, turns the dials more carefully, tries and opens the

safe door. CLICK.

He pulls it open, sees six bottles of Glenfiddich, four bottles of VSOP

brandy.

Bizimungu is joyous as Paul hands him a bottle

Bizimungu sits on a window ledge, takes a swig.

PAUL takes a swig.

The soldier arrives with a box. He whispers to Bizimungu.

The soldier packs the bottles. Bizimungu pours into Paul's cup.

Paul is now terrified.

Bizimungu, now tipsy, drinks more.

Bizimungu laughs.

Bizimungu grabs Paul.

Bizimungu reaches for his pistol.

Bizimungu jumps up, grabs Paul, pulls him.

EXT. DIPLOMAT HOTEL. DAY

Paul and Bizimungu rush out to the jeeps.

INT. JEEP TRAVELLING. DAY

Paul almost overcome with anxiety. Bizimungu worried.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAY

Militia swarm around the front of the hotel.

The jeeps race through, scattering them. They screech to a halt.

Several refugees sit, huddled and battered. Bizimungu jumps out,

snatches an A.K. from a soldier, fires in the air.

PAUL does not wait.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY. DAY

Paul races into the hotel, past frightened refugees who flee.

Then Paul sees a face he recognizes.

It's Gregoire with the Militia! Paul ducks into the stairway.

IN THE STAIRWELL

He leaps the stairs four at a time.

He makes it to the third floor, pushing past frightened refugees who

race down the stairs.

ON THE THIRD FLOOR

He runs straight into a bunch of young Militia.

They shove Paul along the corridor.

The killers race off.    Paul gets to his feet and runs.

INT. PAUL'S ROOM. DAY

Paul bursts in.    The place is a mess. And it's empty!

IN THE CORRIDOR

He careens out of the room.

And sees Gregoire coming with a group of Militia.

They charge toward Paul.

Then a roar of gunfire. The ceiling and walls around Gregoire explode.

General Bizimungu's men run up with weapons drawn.

Paul rushes to the stairs.

More gunfire echoes (soldiers clearing the Militia).

AT THE STAIRS - Paul races upward, falls, pushes past others struggling

to get down.

AT THE ROOF - now, there are clumps of refugees who have fled up there,

including Xavier who huddles in a corner.

Paul runs to the edge of the roof, looks over.

SEES: bodies -   women, and children, still, on the ground beneath, by a

row of hedge.

The bodies move, look up, it's not them. It's refugees hiding. Paul,

delirious with fear, runs along the parapet.

BELOW he sees soldiers herding the Militia.

He runs back to the stairs.

INSIDE THE STAIRCASE: He jumps four stairs at a time.

INSIDE THE CORRIDOR: Soldiers are chasing off the Militia.

TO HIS ROOM: Paul staggers in, crazed with fear. He looks under the

bed.

INTO THE BATHROOM - empty.

He's about to run out again, sees the connecting door to the adjoining

hotel room is slightly open.

INTO THE ADJOINING ROOM: It's empty, then A WHIMPER.

FROM THE BATHROOM, he moves in, cautious.

IN THE BATHROOM: Nothing. He moves over, pulls back the shower curtain.

Reveals: A cluster of women and children, the older ones holding hands

over the mouths of the younger ones. And there at the back: Tatiana and

his kids.

Tears, hugs, women tremble.

EXT. HOTEL FORECOURT. DAWN

The grey of dawn, before the sunrise.

Colonel Oliver in his jeep leads a convoy of UN trucks past the guard

house and Bizimungu's police and up the drive.

THE UN TRUCKS

Parked in front of the hotel. Tutsi refugees file up and are helped on

board by UN soldiers.

Paul helps Tatiana and the children onto a truck.

An ARGUMENT breaks out towards the back of the convoy. Paul rushes

toward Xavier and Benedict who argue.

Paul takes matters into his own hands. He locks the doors of the hotel.

There is no going back.

Paul climbs onto the truck. The others follow, some reluctantly.

Colonel Oliver gives the signal.

The trucks take off down the driveway.

INT. TRUCK TRAVELLING. DAY

Paul now at the front of the truck

WATCHES out through a slice in the canvas.

SEES, the convoy pull out of the Mille Collines.

They travel along the road.

Turn a corner, and the truck slows ...

PAUL SEES: a great mass of Hutus fill the road:

Militia, kids, soldiers discarding uniforms.

No longer a mob, but a crush of Hutu refugees now fleeing toward them,

fleeing the advancing of the rebel army.

A crowd of Militia men wave their arms, shout at the trucks.

The driver reluctantly speeds up.

A break in the mass of Hutu refugees.

Then GUN FIRE ahead.

Children begin crying, it becomes infectious, spreading to Paul's

children, some of the women.

Then ahead, a gang of Militia men break from the bushes beside the

road.

They're running fast toward the truck, some carry rifles.

There's more gunfire behind.

The Militia are almost upon them now.

Colonel Oliver has his pistol drawn.

The Militia are at the truck.

But they run STRAIGHT PAST!

As a platoon of Tutsi rebel soldiers (in bush camouflage and   red and

blue headbands) burst from the brush.

Pursuing, careful, professional.

The crying stops. Silent disbelief.

Cheering breaks out. Children frightened again by the sudden euphoria

break into cries of joy.

A rebel soldier waves his AK 47 in the air.

EXT. KIGALI SOCCER STADIUM. DAY

The trucks crawl into the chaos of the stadium, a mass of refugees, the

wounded, lost children, abandoned old people, hundreds crammed

together.

Paul, Tatiana, and the others clamber off the trucks. They hug, cry, an

outpouring of relief. Then Tatiana spots someone among the crowds.

She rushes over.

Heads shak `no'. Tatiana moves on, more frantic, pushing through the

crowds.

More `nos'

Now she's desperate, pushing, tripping through the crowds, and around

her we see others doing the same, then

He reaches her, pulls at her dress.

She takes his hand.

Tatiana turns .... and sees Paul carrying the twins in his arms.

She squeals with joy, runs to him, snatches one from his arms.

Their laughter mix with tears of joy among the crushing mass of

survivors.

FREEZE

THE GENOCIDE ENDED IN LATE JUNE 1994, WHEN THE TUTSI REBELS DEFEATED

THE HUTU ARMY AND MILITIA.

TWO MILLION HUTUS FLED INTO THE NEIGHBORING CONGO IN THE LARGEST SINGLE

EXODUS OF THE TWENTIETH CENTURY

THEY LEFT BEHIND ALMOST ONE MILLION CORPSES.

PHOTO OF: GEORGE RUTAGUNDA

George Rutagunda was convicted of crimes against humanity.   He is now

serving a life sentence in a Tanzanian jail.

PHOTO OF: GENERAL BIZIMUNGU

Augustin Bizimungu escaped with the Hutu Militia to the Congo. In

August, 2002 he was captured in Angola. A UN war crimes tribunal has

charged him with crimes against humanity.

PHOTO OF: THOMAS AND FEDENS                               Thomas' and

Fedens' bodies where never found. Paul adopted their twin daughters.

PHOTO OF: PAUL (the lead actor)                           PAUL

RUSESABAGINA: saved the lives of all one thousand two hundred Rwandan

refugees who took shelter at the Mille Collines Hotel.

PHOTO TURNS TO PHOTO OF REAL PAUL AND HIS FAMILY.         Paul,

Tatiana, the twins, and all their family now live in Belgium, where

Paul owns and operates two taxi cabs.

FREEZE -

