for educational use only                                        for educational use only

Fade In:

A BRIGHT BLUE TIGER

Surrounded by a pack of dogs, ten of them snarling and gnashing their teeth.

The TIGER'S, eyes burn with fury as he wheels in a circle, lunging at one

dog clawing at another, keeping them all at bay.

Suddenly, the TIGER leaps over the dogs and transforms into a WHITE

BIRD, soaring majestically into the sky.

THE FACE OF A JAPANESE MAN

Sits up into frame, sweating, waking from a dream. He is KATSUMOTO.

We will come to know him later.

Fade to black. CREDITS OVER.

The faint SOUND of a BRASS BAND.

THE FACE OF AN AMERICAN MAN

As he smokes a cigar, barely listening. CAPTAIN _NATHAN ALGREN,

U.S. Army, ret, 36 years old and looking every da y of it. His eyes are lined

and saddened. He takes a swig from a flask. He is BACKSTAGE at:

INT. CONVENTION HALL              SAN FRANCISCO          DAY

Where a trade show is in progress. Scantily clad lovelies in red-white-and-

blue undies demonstrate the nation's most important new export: arms.

Every weapon imaginable is on display: rifles, pistols, even howitzers. Banners

declaim the virtues of Winchester and Springfield. Of Colt and Remington

and Smith & Wesson. Crowds mill around a stage. where:

LITTLE TIN SOLDIERS are all lined up. A mass of grey. Rebel troops

surrounding a band of blue Union cavalry. A large, metal diorama.

A last swig. Algren steels himself, then strides onstage as we reveal a banner:

WINCHESTER PRESENTS: THE MIRACLE AT SUTTER'S HILL!

Garish limelight from a row of foot lights illuminates Algren.

He looks down at the little metal soldiers and begins to tell the story of the

battle that made him famous. His narration is halting, unsteady:

We realize he is reading from cue cards. The little Rebel soldiers begin sliding

up the metal hill.

A sudden flash:

Algren's mind. The real battle of Sutter's Hill. The grim reality is ver y

different from the dashing tale. Union soldiers scream in agony. Those

horses still alive buck and froth at their tether.                      .

Algren, a lieutenant then, moves among the panicked, bloody men. He stops beside a

PRIVATE, his brother, DAVID ALGREN, 19, blonde, not much more than a boy.

He looks over the wall. Rebel troops are moving up the hill.

Algren punches his shoulder and moves on down the line. Nearby, Algren's

friend, SERGEANT ZEBULAH GANT, though severel y wounded, reloads

his revolver with the last of his ammunition.

Algren smiles sadly. His mend will die loon without medical attention.

Algren moves down the line, bullets whizzing overhead. He kneels beside

COLONEL BAGLEY, his commanding officer.

Back to the convention hall:

The little Union cavalry soldiers begin moving down slots in the hill.

On Sutter's Hill:

Algren leads a chaotic cavalry charge down the hill toward the advancing rebel

infantry -- artillery explosi ons - bullets snapping, trees shattering.

Algren's brother, Davey, rides beside him.

The wounded Sergeant Gant pulls himself up, waves his cap and yells.

Bagley remains cowering behind the stone wall.

Back to the convention hall:

On Sutter's Hill :

Carnage. Union and Confederate soldiers slam together, falling, drowning in mud

and blood, stepped on by panicked hones.

Algren wields his saber in one hand and his revolver in the other, serving

death on all sides.

A soldier riding next to Davey is shot. A horse falls into a shellhole.

Back to the convention hall:

More flashes:

Algren slices right and left with his saber. He is a truly gifted swordsman.

A tree branch knocks Davey from his horse. He sits, dazed, on the ground.

Algren kills a rebel soldier just as be is about to fire on him.

Single-handedly, be rallies his men, screaming orders, then lifts his wounded

brother onto the saddle beside him.

He leads them downhill toward safel y, Davey clinging to him for dear life.

Back to the convention hall:

On Sutter's Hill:

Algren and his men gather in a copse of trees. They are giddy with the exhilaration

of having survived.

Algren's smile is shortlived, though.

SUDDENLY, the woods ERUPT with gunfire. Trees are shredded.

Algren's men are literally cut to pieces-

Davey is riddled with bullets, his dead body shielding Algren from harm until

he slides, lifeless, to the mud.

Men and horses are torn apart -- they contort and writhe in agony  jerking

grotesquely as the bullets rip into them. Algren frantica1ly tries to locate the

source of this firepower. Then he sees:

A Gatling Gun.

Six barrels glisten like steel teeth. This early machine gun is the pinnacle of

current military might -- 60 rounds a second -- a triumph in engineering.

With insane courage, he wheels and charges the gun.

Bullets rip into horse and rider alike. Algren falls, lifeless, into the mud.

Back to the convention hall:

Applause.

At the back of the hall three elegantly dressed JAPANESE MEN watch

Algren's performance. They wear Western frock coats and top hats

Algren holds up a Winchester repeating rifle.

At the back of the audience we note someone else watching Algren.

SERGEANT ZEBULON GANT, whom we last saw on Sutter's Hill.

He peers into the ejection port as he cocks the weapon and sights out over the

crowd.

KA-BOOM!!! The report echoes among the screams of the ladies. Dust and

glass fall from a rear chandelier.

Audience-members murmur nervousl y.

Later...

A Winchester representative is handing Algren an envelope.

He goes. Algren immediately starts counting the cash.

INT.           SEEDY HOTEL ROOM                      NIGHT

Algren sits alone on the bed. He takes out a leather-bound journal and begins to write.

INT.            SQUALID BAR                NIGHT

Algren sips absinthe. He stares at the milky, green liquid before him.

EXT.                   GAS-LIT STREET              NIGHT

Algren walks in the fog. Sputtering gas lamps give an unearthly glow.

INT.           SEEDY HOTEL ROOM                     NIGHT

Algren is back in the hotel room. From his small suitcase, he takes the

Medal of Honor, looks at it for a long moment.

A sudden flash:

We are back on Sutter's Hill. Algren's slaughtered cavalry litter the bloody

ground, dead to the last man. A rebel army surgeon gives a cursory look at

each body before it is loaded onto a wagon.

Algren's turn is no different than the others. He is declared dead and hoisted

unceremoniously onto the pile of corpses.

Back in the. hotel room.:

Algren sits, staring into the middle distance.

He reaches into the suitcase and takes out a Colt revol ver. Stares at it, cracks

the cylinder to make sure it's loaded. His finger wraps around the trigger,

the barrel makes its wa y toward his head.

And then, unaccountabl y, he is laughing.

A KNOCK on the door. Algren shuts his eyes, then calls out.

Algren looks up. He knows that voice. He carefully puts the revolver back into the suitcase and shuts it before

opening the door.

Algren is filled with emotion, which he tries to hide.

They embrace.

Gant moves to the proffered chair with a pronounced limp.

Gant smiles and shakes his head.

Algren looks at him. Curious despite himself.

INT.           RESTAURANT                  NIGHT

Gant leads Algren into a lush San Francisco restaurant. Flickering gaslight

and trays of lobster. COLONEL BENJAMIN BAGLEY (whom we saw in

flashback) sits with the three Japanese men. Bagley's hair has greyed. He

has his eye on a political future.

OMURA 40, is a handsome and intelligent man. He watches Algren closel y

as Algren pours a glass or whiskey from a decanter.

Algren looks at him.

Algren takes a slow lip of whiskey.

Omura suddenly speaks. His English is flawless.

Algren looks at him. The figure, in 1876, is staggering.

EXT              SHIP--OCEAN                     DAY

A steamship chums its wa y across the great Pacific. Algren leans on the

ship's rail and looks out into an endless processi on of wa ves.

A dolphin crests the surface, arcing into the air.

In his tiny cabin, Algren finishes writing in his journal and takes out a

daguerreot ype of a HAUNTINGLY BEAUTIFUL BLOND WOMAN.

He stares at the woman in the picture.

INT.            SHIP  CABIN                 DAY

In the main cabin, Algren sits with Gant and Omura. Algren is drinking.

This evocation of the Civil War is not lost on Algren.

Algren looks pointedly at Bagley.

Algren glares at Bagley, then stands.

He walks away.

INT.                SHIP -- ALGREN'S BERTH                      NIGHT

Algren lies in his cramped berth. Can't sleep.

A sudden flash:

On the wagon of dead bodies, Algren's eyes open to stare into the unblinking

eyes of his brother, Davey, half his face shot off. He tries to move but be is

buried beneath the weight of those piled on top of him. Blood drips down

into his eyes and mouth, blinding and choking him.

Back to the ship:

Algren awakens, bathed in sweat. Terror. A silhouette in the doorwa y.

Colonel Bagley stands looking down at him.

Algren reaches for a nearby glass, drains it.

He turns and walks out, leaving Algren to stare at the empty glass.

EXT.                 SHIP                       DAY

Algren and Gant stand at the rail.

Omura comes up next to them.

Omura is perplexed by Algren's remark, then realizes he is being kidded. He

laughs heartily. Algren laughs with him. A connection is made.

He walks away. Algren watches him go. His face darkens.

EXT.               YOKOHAMA HARBOR                           DAY

Like all Japan, Yokohama is at the cusp of a new era.

Ancient sampans and wooden schooners beside freighters and steamships.

EXT.                YOKOHAMA  DOCK                            DAY

After 23 days at sea, they are all glad to climb down the gangplank. The

Yokohama docks are a frenzy of languages and looks and smells and sounds.

Japanese competes with German and English and French and Russian.

Warehouses fl y the flags of a dozen countries.

One striking Japanese character dominates: the symbol for, Omura. It is seen

on buildings, warehouses, and the headbands of scores of laborers.

A series of palanquins, litters carried by bearers, await our voyagers.

As does SIMON GRAHAM, a dissipated Englishman who has lived in Japan

for many yean. Slender and pale, with an occasional consumptive cough, in

his 50's, he wears a white linen suit, a bit worse for wear.

Graham ushers Algren and Gant into their own less-ornate version.

Algren notes the hoods covering the faces of the palanquin bearers.

INT /EXT            PALANQUIN - YOKOHAMA STREETS                             DAY

Their bearers maneuver them through the bustling streets of Yokohama.

White face painted geishas walk alongside bearded Russians. Traditional

Japanese kimonos alongside European suits and hats, schizophrenic world

of ancient Japan versus modern commercialism.

INT.            GUEST QUARTERS                       DAY

A shoji screen is opened by a bowing servant to reveal the clean, classic lines

of a Japanese room. Algren is about to enter when Graham stops him,

indicating for Algren to remove his boots.

Algren scowls, confused, and struggles to pull off the high, filthy boots. He takes

in the foreigness of the room, an arrangement of fl owers on a low table.

He points to a block of wood.

EXT.           AMERICAN EMBASSY-. GARDEN                     DAYS LATER

In the pristine grounds of the Embassy, a garden party is in progress.

Incongruous lilting Yankee tunes are heard from the Japanese band.

Algren and Gant, now in their dress uniforms wander through the party with Graham.

Liveried servants pall trays of canapes.

Elsewhere we see diplomats representing all the powers currently trying to devour

Japan: Russia; England; Germany; France; Spain; etc.

They pass two German diplomats. The Germans glance to Algren and Gant with suspicion, bow tersely.

Graham greets them in German.

Omura separates himself from his entourage and approaches.

Graham is open-mouthed at this turn of events.

EXT.                  IMPERIAL PALACE                          DAY

Algren and Bagley sit with Graham in an ornate carriage as they cross the

moat and enter the ancestral palace of the Shoguns.

INT.                   IMPERIAL PALACE  ANTECHAMBER                            DAY

Algren waits with Bagley and Graham outside the throne room.

EXT.          IMPERIAL COURT -- THRONE ROOM                      DAY

Algren and Gant are surprised to discover the living god is barely in his

twenties. The divine EMPEROR MEIJI is an intelligent and curious young man,

yet there is a tentativeness about him.

His throne is surrounded by ADVISORS, principal among them is Omura.

Nearby, the American AMBASSADOR SWANBECK a cagey diplomat

The throne room itself is sweeping, beautiful, and extremely restrained. Everywhere,

tasteful displays of the traditional flower of the monarchy: chrysanthemums.

The vibrant yellow bl ossoms haunt the chamber.

As the Emperor considers his guests, Omura whispers into his ear. Then:

The Emperor speaks in Japanese. The advisors are non-plussed, and Omura leans down

for a moment to confer with him, then smiles indulgently:

Algren looks at Graham, who nods. He may speak.

Graham translates. The Emperor nods and smiles.

He stands. Everyone else hurries to follow suit. The audience is over.

EXT.               PALACE GARDEN                       DAY

A1gren, Graham, and Bagley walk through the palace grounds.

GENERAL YOSHITAKA appears. He is a seasoned soldier in his 40's. A

decent man. He stops before them, bows quickly.

Algren offers his hand. General Yoshitaka does not take it. He bowl his head and

speaks a few words. Graham translates:

EXT.           PARADE GROUND                            DAY

About a thousand Japanese soldiers in baggy uniforms are milling around a large

parade ground. Each has an old single shot rifle. Algren, Gant, and Yoshitaka

look down on them from a reviewing stand.

Graham speaks to General Yoshitaka, then translates his response.

Algren glances to General Yoshitaka, who looks back wr yl y.

Graham translates, rather mildly.

As the soldiers immediately stand to attention, we begin a montage of the training

of the first Imperial Army:

We see Gant drilling the men. Shouting at his translator. Trying to get them to march

in formation. Algren is nearby, watching.

Algren sits in his tent, writing in his journal. Outside, the Japanese are being taught

the basics of firing tactics.

We see Algren showing the Japanese how to fire in formation. The old single-shot

rifles they carry make reloading a painfully slow process.

Algren and Gant spar with sabers - Algren's expertise far exceeds Gant's, a

fact which Gant accepts with good humor.

It is sunset Algren, Graham, and General Yoshitaka watch the training.

General Yoshitaka speaks.

Algren watches Gant march beside the Japanese. They are illuminated by the

majestic red sunset

Graham translates. Genera1 Yoshitaka responds.

EXT.                TOKYO  STREET                           EVENING

Tokyo is a city in chaos. Everything seems out of balance. Dystopic. A

collision of Eastern and Western. Algren and Gant watch as Graham prepares

to take a photograph of an old merchant in front of his store.

Algren silently watches the passers-by. Something draws his attention:

Across the street. a man is striding down the crowded sidewalk. His martial

bearings, two swords, traditional dress and unique top knot of hair instantly

identify him to us as a samurai.                                       .

We will meet him again later, he is UJIO. A terse, grim man in his 40's. His

proud gait and rigid, imperious manner intrigue Algren.

Most of the people on the sidewalk instantly step out of the wa y, bowing in deference. But two young

Japanese in Western dress do not.

Ujio stands before them, waiting for them to move. They don't.

Tense words are exchanged. Ujio glares at them. Algren watches.

Across the street, Uji o barks out some harsh commands to the two

Japanese men. They laugh in response. Then one of the men raises a hand

and barks some clearly disrespectful words back--

Like lightning-- Ujio pulls out his long samurai sword - it flashes --

Cleanly beheading the disrespectful Japanese man --

The beheaded corpse begins to fall--

In one smooth motion, Ujio wipes his blade clean of the corpse as it falls

and sweeps it back into its scabbard. The other man immediately drops to

his belly, prostrating himself.

Without another glance, Ujio walks awa y. His face is completely impassive.

INT.          RESTAURANT                         NIGHT

Sergeant Gant gazes unhappily at his dinner: glistening raw fish; tepid

beancurds; boiled rice. Algren, Gant, Graham, and General Yoshitaka sit

cross-legged on the floor. Gant finds this extremely uncomfortable.

The next course arrives. Thick, black eel. Gant groans.

General Yoshitaka speaks up. Graham translates:

Graham finishes translating, then continues on his own:

Algren considers this as he pours another cup of sake.

Yoshitaka nods. Enthusiastically tries an English word.

Graham looks at A1gren.

Algren looks at Yoshitaka with new eyes.

EXT.                TOKYO  STREET                 NIGHT

Later that night.

Algren and Gant, a little drunk by now, wander Tokyo's bustling red light

district. Like Amsterdam, the geishas sit in windows facing the street.

INT.                 GEISHA HOUSE                    NIGHT

This is certainly not the whorehouse they expected. Elegant Japanese

furnishings. Lovel y flute music. The MADAM lowers her head and speaks

quietly in greeting.

The Madam speaks no English. Gant speaks louder, as if to a deaf person.

Gant flashes a fistful of Japanese currency.

The Madam nods and bows. Almost magically, two beautifully-dressed

GEISHAS appear, their faces are painted pure white.

One of the Geishas smile. Her teeth are blackened, to better set off the

whiteness of her face paint

INT.             GEISHA HOUSE  ROOM                        NIGHT

Algren and Gant are led into an elegant room with paper screens, and a table

set for the Japanese tea ceremony.                                               .

Gant tries to take the arm of one of the geishas - but she moves awa y,

gesturing for him to sit The other begins the tea ceremony.

A musician plays a traditional lute. The geisha begins a graceful fan dance.

Algren smiles at the Geisha preparing the. She smiles back. Algren pours

himself a cup of sake.

Later...

The sake bottle is empty. The interminable lute music continues.

Gant is increasingly agitated as the geisha continues her dance. Algren can't

help but laugh at his frustration. Finally Gant has had enough. He rises, a

bit unsteady from the sake.

He shoos the musician out of the room, then approaches the geisha, who

shrinks from his intention.

He takes her arm. She resists - her voice rising.

He tries to pull her along. Her kimono tears. She calls out in terror. Two men

appear, bouncers presumably, but alight of build.

The Madam yells angrily at Gant in Japanese. Pushing him out roughly.

One of the bouncers puts his hand, politely, on Gant's arm.

This time, the bouncer is more insistent. Gant takes a swing at him. Wrong

move. Before Gant knows what hit him, the little man uses Gant's

momentum in an akido move to flip him to the mat, hard.

Algren can only stare, in awe, at the lethal move. As the second bouncer moves

to confront him, bowing apologetically, Algren speaks in English, smiling,

knowing they can't understand a word he's saying.

EXT.               _PARADE GROUND                             DAY

The training continues. We see Gant, now sporting a black eye. Algren

walks with General Yoshitaka and Graham. Graham translates:

Algren looks at Yoshitaka, who gives him. wry look..

Yoshitaka looks at him. Has Algren deliberately used the word, "enemy,"

knowing that Yoshitaka, too, is a samurai? Algren gives nothing awa y.

Graham translates. General Yoshitaka considers his words.

Algren considers this as they observe rifle practice. Erratic but

improving. Algren notes Yoshitaka's reaction. The rifles seem to make

him unhappy.

Graham obliges. Yoshitaka responds, with disdain:

Algren is surprised at this bit of information. A servant approaches, bows.

INT.               TENT              DAY

Colonel Bagley and Algren stand at a map. Omura sits.

Algren looks at him, murderously.

EXT.                    RUINED VILLAGE                               DAY

A STEAM ENGINE lends plumes of smoke into the air as it waits. Algren,

Bagley, and General Yoshitaka ride along the railroad line.

The Imperial Army follows, with Sergeant Gant, on foot.

A traditional Japanese village is being torn aside to make room for the railroad

line. Houses are being leveled and black smoke drifts up. The displaced

villagers gather belongings. Omura guards herd them about rather bruta1ly.

Railroad workers are laying a new spur, building a brick station. A1gren notes

the by now familiar Omura symbol on the new water tower and on the

headbands of the guards and workers.

SEVERED HEADS on pikes line the road, a warning to those who continue

to resist

They pass a particularly wrenching sight. Villagers kneeling outside what

used to be a Shinto temple. The railroad tracks cut straight through it.

The Army moves on. Ahead are towering mountains.

EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PASS                          DAY

The Imperial Army winds its way up I steep mountain pass.

EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PLAIN                        MORNING

Fog. Obscuring everything.

Algren and Bagley, on horseback, wait with Graham. General Yoshitaka and

a few Japanese Commanders are mounted as well. The thousand strong

Japanese Army is on foot They stand, rifles ready.                            ,

Graham speaks to General Yoshitaka. Yoshitaka responds:

Algren prepares himself.

They wait.

General Yoshitaka is suddenly alert. He speaks quietly to Graham.

Algren gazes into the thick fog ahead, sees nothing. Bagley looks worried.

Algren is somewhat confused by the question.

Before Algren can respond, Bagley has left the front lines with Graham in

tow. Gant watches as they head out of harm's wa y.                      .

Gant checks his two revol vers. The methodical clicking of the chambers as

he checks his rounds is the only sound.                                         .

Then absolute silence. A light SNOW begins to fall.

Algren continues to peer into the fog. Nothing.

Then a sound ... distant ... building through the fog...

The steady rumble of horses. Slowl y approaching. Closer and closer...

Algren notes some of the Japanese soldiers are literally shaking in fear.

Algren peers again into the fog. Nothing. But the sound is closer.

Then the sound abruptly stops.

Silence broken only by the murmured prayers of some of the soldiers.

His order is translated. The Japanese soldiers prepare to fire, one

row kneeling, the other standing behind them.

One of the Japanese soldiers faints from sheer tension.

Algren can see nothing through the dense fog. The tension is unbearable.

Then a form on horseback... ghostly... like lame sort of medieval

monster. An elaborate, horned helmet. Sweeping samurai armor.

All we can see it the eerie silhouette in the fog.

Like something from a nightmare.

And then another figure... and another ... as 500 mounted samurai warriors

slowl y move into position.

The Japanese troops are terrified

The order is translated.

A terrible, beautiful moment of absolute stasis.

Nothing moves.

The Japanese soldiers wait.

The ghostly silhouettes wait.

Silence.

Then -- as if a silent signal were given -- the samurai suddenly CHARGE,

emerging from the fog in a great wave--! The force of a tsunami.

The silence is shattered as the charging samurai roar out ancient war-

cries that chill the blood -- sweeping forward on their hones like

lightning -swords and spears flashing

The Japanese troops fire then quickly begin trying to reload their single shot

rifles -- others fumble at the ask and then break and run--

Panic and chaos--

Too late-- the samurai are on them--

They attack with an intensity few have ever seen -- many of the Japanese

soldiers try to escape, turning and running in blind panic -- they are butchered--

run through by the ashigaru, cut inhalf by the naginata.

Those soldiers who laboriousl y try to reload their rifles are quickly

mowed down by ferocious clouds of samurai arrows, fired by mounted

Samurai.

A bugler sounds the order. The Army begins to retreat.

But suddenly they are attacked from behind as well! Arrows shoot from the

fog and more mounted samurai appear.

They are surrounded.

Algren, Gant, and the Japanese Offi cers call out orders but all discipline

soon breaks down -- it is every man for himself--

The battle swirls ever ywhere around us. Fleeing soldiers are run through by

lances, run down and trampled by horses.

Each samurai wears individual, vibrantly col ored armor. Various battle

flags sweep through the fog.

Gant uses his two cavalry revolvers -- firing constantly -- finally out of

ammo he drops from his horse in the cavalry st yle and pulls a Winchester

repeating rifle, crouching and quickly firing--

Algren uses his revol ver first -- firing as he turns on his horse -- when

the revol ver is empty he pulls his cavalry saber. He manages to parry

the lethal blows as the Samurai hurtle past --

But one Samurai, his armor all in black, comes at him on a collision course

and SLAMS INTO HIM, sending both horse and rider to the ground.

Algren scrambles to his feet, his saber nowhere to be found as another

rider heads toward him carrying a lance.

Algren manages to grab it and throw the rider to the ground, wrestling the

lance from his grip and running him through.

In the midst of the battle we notice a peculiar thing. One samurai is just sitting

on his horse. Watching Algren. This samurai wears a BLACK MASK.

The MASKED SAMUARI watches Algren fight.

Algren now wields the lance to battle the horsemen as they sweep past. He

spears one and then unseats another. When a third samurai cuts his lance in

half, Algren uses the remaining half as a club to take him down.

The Masked Samurai continues to watch Algren. Algren's tenacity is amazing.

He continues to fight with heroic passion, refusing to give an inch, long after

Those around him have fled.

Then a blaze of bright yellow  a samurai in yellow armor galloping past, firing

arrows steadily from horseback. His control and speed are astounding.

We will come to know him as YORITOMO, a handsome young samurai.

Yoritomo fires arrow upon arrow  the speed is breathtaking  Two arrows

slam into Gant, knocking him to the ground.

The battle, meanwhile, has become a rout. Those Imperial soldiers who fight

are easily cut down. Those who flee are run down like prey.

Left alone, Algren finds himself confronted by ashigaru  samurai foot

soldiers carrying pikes. He turns to discover his retreat cut off by other

samurai wielding katana  the lethal long sword.

But rather than give any quarter, Algren launches an attack. He kills one

samurai before he is RUN THROUGH, at the shoulder, by a lance.

In agony, Algren SNAPS OFF the hilt of the lance, leaving its tip buried

deep in his chest, and fights on.

He manages to parry a blow  which SLICES into his side. The next blow

takes off a piece of his scalp. Blood fl ows down his faces and into his eyes.

Algren is now surrounded by ten samurai. A man's heroic stand against

certain death is of great interest to them. As they begin to close in, Algren

whirls the lance around, a tattered battle-flag with TIGER INSIGNIA still

dangling from the end.

The MASKED SAMURAI removes his mask. It is the JAPANESE MAN,

whose dream of the tiger we glimpsed at the beginning of the story. His

eyes wide in surprise, he watches his dream come to life--the blue tiger

holding the dogs at bay.

In SLOW MOTION Algren whirls the lance, as one samurai, wearing

BLOOD-RED ARMOR, advances. With a murderous smile, he draws his

katana.

Algren seems spent  he drops to one knee, swaying, on the brink of losing

consciousness.

But as the RED SAMURAI, lets out a battle cry and propels himself forward for the death blow - Algren

suddenly LEAPS UP and propels the jagged wooden end of the broken lance into the unprotected throat of his

attacker.

As the samurai falls, the rest of his comrades close in to cut Algren off.

A harsh COMMAND stops them in their tracks.

The Masked Samurai leaps from his horse. Everyone steps aside deferentially

so that be might pass by without being jostled.                    .

He looks down at Algren, then removes his battle helmet.

And we meet _MORI KATSUMOTO, the leader of the samurai. He it an

imposing man of about Algren's years.

Sensing that he is about to be killed, Algren pulls himself t o his knees, and SWINGS his saber at Katsumoto.

With blinding speed, Katsumoto pulls his katana from its scabbard.

Algren's saber is SNAPPED CLEANLY IN TWO.

Katsumoto looks down at Algren.

Then Gant appears behind Katsumoto -- limping toward him, cocking his

rifle, urgently trying to save Algren--

Ujio, (the Samurai we saw earlier on the streets of Tokyo) leaps to

protect his Lord. His sword flashes--

Gant is eviscerated. Algren watches in horror.

A dreadful beat as Gant stands, pathetically trying to hold his guts in. Then he

sinks to his knees.

Katsumoto turns, leaps back onto his horse and trots off.

Algren finally wrenches himself from under his horse. He crawls to Gant,

blood pouring from his own injured back and shoulder.

Gant is dead.

Algren looks up to see the battle is lost. The Japanese soldiers have fled.

Or are surrendering, injured or dead.

And he sees one other thing. General Yoshitaka is still on his horse,

head down. He has not pulled his sword. He has not been hurt.

Katsumoto rides to Yoshitaka. A few serious words are exchanged. Katsumoto bows his bead in respect, seems

to agree to something.

Both men climb from their horses. General Yoshitaka pulls out a small b1ade and hands it to Katsumoto, who

holds it out firmly.

General Yoshitaka quickly and calmly pulls himself on to the blade, plunging

it into his stomach, embracing Katsumoto.

It is seppuku -- the traditional form of samurai suicide.

Algren watches, stunned.

Then a terrible scream cuts through the battlefield.

Algren sees samurai calmly walking among the injured and captured Imperial

soldiers .. killing them one by one with a single stroke.

Algren looks over the slaughter.

And then passes out, bill wounds overcoming him.

Fade to...

EXT.                    MOUNTAIN PASS                               DAY

Algren is unconscious, tied to a horse.

The mounted samurai move up a treacherous mountain pass, disappearing

into the soaring mountains of Yoshino.

EXT.              VILLAGE                                    SUNSET

Katsumoto's village is the other Japan. The Japan we have not yet seen.

The gorgeous mountain scenery of Yoshino envelopes the village. Snow-

capped mountains soar in the distance. A valley below with rice fields.

After the turmoil of Tokyo, this place seems a bucolic paradise. Traditional,

wooden Japanese architecture. Farming. The sense of harmony so markedly

absent from the cities.

Algren, barely conscious, hunches over his horse. He has lost a lot of blood.

Katsumoto leads his samurai into the village. As he passes, ever y person in

the village touches his or her forehead to the ground to show respect.

Most of these villagers have never seen a white face and gaze at Algren with

curiosity. And suspicion.

Katsumoto dismounts in a large square, the rest of his men follow suit. A samurai

helps Algren painfully slide from his horse.

Katsumoto moves to the steps of the largest house. His officers fall

into formation around him. Algren notes Ujio - the grim samurai who killed

Gant -- in jet black armor, glaring at him coldl y.

Ujio walks forward and SCREAMS at Algren in Japanese. Algren doesn't

move. This only makes Ujio more angry. He paces back and forth like a

caged panther spitting invective at Algren.

Algren doesn't move. He watches Uji o evenly. This takes incredible will.

His wounds are so bad that- he can barely stand.

SUDDENLY - Ujio draws his long sword -- it slashes through the air - the

blade singing -- and stops an inch away from Algren's face!

Algren doesn't move.

Ujio brings the cutting edge' into contact with Algren's check. Blood runs

where even this feather-light touch cuts Algren's skin. Algren doesn't move.

Ujio glares at him. Then sheathes his sword and walks away.

Katsumoto looks at Algren deepl y, gauging him. Then be speaks. In English.

Algren is surprised.

Katsumoto turns and walks into his house. Uji o follows him. Algren collapses.

Fade to black.

As Algren begins his time at the heart of the samurai world.

INT.                        YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT

Algren'. eyes open...

A WOMAN is leaning close, her eyes intent on the task of sewing up his

wound. She is beautiful, but he is not really conscious enough to notice, or

even feel the pain. He blacks out again.

INT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                      NIGHT

Algren wakes again. He is lying on a simple mat. His injuries are such that

he can barely move his head. He takes in the traditional Japanese furnishings.

A red ball rolls across the floor. And after it... TOSHIIE, a little boy. around

four. The boy l ooks at Algren. offers him the ball. Smiles.

A1gren blacks out...

INT                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       ANOTHER DAY

Algren's eyes open...

Through the archway he can see Toshiie and his older brother HIGEN, around

ten. Also the beautiful WOMAN who earlier was stitching his wound.

From his recumbent position, Algren watches as she ministers to the boys,

who are dearly her sons. Algren is fascinated by her grace and the sweet

attention she gives them.

She seems to sense him. Her eyes raise, meet bit. She speaks to someone,

and YORITOMO appears. He is twenty-one, too young to be the woman's

husband. Yoritomo comes into Algren's room. Speaks to him.

Algren shakes his head. Doesn't understand

Yoritomo speaks to the woman, who approaches and places bowl of soup

in front of Algren. He ignores it

The boys stand in the doorwa y. Yoritomo shoos them awa y.

Algren glances up at the: woman. Her eyes avoid his, her expression is opaque.

INT.                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                              ANOTHER DAY

Algren now sits in the main room. The woman is changing the dressing on

his wounded right shoulder and arm.

Yoritomo kneels across from Algren. He is impressed at the many battle

wounds on Algren's body; the old bullet wounds and scars. In Japanese, he

indicates his admiration.

Algren his no idea what Yoritomo is saying. Finally he interrupts with the

only Japanese word he has bothered to learn:

Yoritomo's face breaks into a wide smile.

Yoritomo glances to the woman. She nods, and brings A1gren a saucer of

sake. He drinks it down. Holds out the saucer for a refill

Smiling, Yoritomo indicates for the woman to comply, but before she can

pour another saucer, Algren takes the jug out of her other hand. Yoritomo

laughs as Algren drinks it down.

EXT.                       VILLAGE                               NIGHT

Autumn leaves fall to the ground. In a tiny hut, the village swordsmith begins

work on a samurai blade.

INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                        NIGHT

Algren writhes on his mat. Trapped in his recurrent nightmare.

A sudden flash:

The wagonload of the dead. Davey's bl oody corpse closes in on Algren

suffocating him.

Back in the house

Yoritomo and the woman are asleep in separate rooms.

A piercing SCREAM shatters the night

EXT.                 VILLAGE                        FOLLOWING

The screaming continues. Lamps are lit around the village...

INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   FOLLOWING

Yoritomo and the woman hurry to Algren's room --

Algren in the throes of his recurring nightmare - awakens, disoriented.

Yoritomo and the woman confer. Yoritomo looks It Algren and shakes his

head, no.

Yoritomo refuses -- Algren roars and tries to rise. Laughing at Algren's

ferocit y in his weakened condition, Yoritomo easily pushes him back down.

Algren folds in on himself, rocking like a feral animal.

EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                              NIGHT

Katsumoto stands outside the house, drawn by the commotion. Ujio stands

with him, shaking his bead.

EXT.                      VILLAGE                      DAY

A glimpse of village life -- fish are hung on lines to dry, children chase each

Other, clothes are washed in the river, and in the rice fields below, farmers

squat as they have for thousands of years. In his hut, the swordsmith

continues to hammer and fold the blade.

INT.                YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       NIGHT

Algren sits hunched in a dark corner. His body is convulsed with shivering.

His withdrawal from alcohol, his wounds, his isolation and his imagined sins

are devouring him.                                                                .

Then we see he is not alone. The woman stands in the doorway, watching

him closel y. Finally she enters with a bowl of soup.

He glances up, something like panic in his eyes.

She kneels and attempts to hand him the soup, but be knocks it out of the

wa y and grabs her by the throat.

She stares at him, the breath being squeezed out of her, but there is not even

a whisper of fear in her eyes. She is utterly impassive. Shaken, he lets her

go, and crumples to the floor.                         .

The woman leaves the soup and wa1ks away.

INT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           DAYS LATER

Daylight streams in, finding Algren lying on his back. The worst of the detox

is past. As be lies there, these first moments of repose lead to:

A sudden flash of memory:

The beautiful blond WOMAN from the picture laughs merrily, and falls

back languorousl y in a grassy fi eld.

Back in the room

Algren shakes off the memory as harsh SOUNDS from outside draw him to

the window.                  .

EXT.                    YORITOMO'S HOUSE                      MORNING

Algren watches from the window as the samurai train. It is like nothing else

in the world. Part sacred ritual, part martial preparation, samurai training

com bines athletic prowess and graceful artistry into one effortless whole.

Finally well enough to walk, Algren comes out onto the porch to watch the

spectacle. In front of him, is a Kendo (The Way of the Sword) master

practice with their long and short swords. They have incredible control.

NAKAO, a mountain of a man, is a Karate master. He stands unarmed,

four samurai facing him. They attack with wooden swords. He effortlessly

defeats them -- the agility of the huge man is shocking.

Kyudo ("The Way of the Bow") masters use their bows for target practice.

Yoritomo holds a bundle of arrows. In the distance, a line of plums.

Algren watches. Yoritomo just seems to stand there, his eyes hall-open.

And then -- in a stunning blaze of movement -- Yoritomo fires the arrows --

one after another, amazingly fast -- cleanly hitting each plum. The final arrow

splits the previous one as it buries itself in the tree.

A wooden sword leans against the porch.

Algren idly picks it up, feeling its balance. In a flash, Uji o has raced over and

grabbed it from him. Algren stands motionless as Ujio screams at him.

The training stops, as everyone watches Uji o berate Algren.

Even as Ujio continues screaming. Algren simply shakes his head, turns

awa y, and walk back into the house.

INT.               YORITOMO'S HOUSE                         DAY

As the sounds of training resume outside, Algren explores the house.

He comes upon Higen and Toshiie playing with the red ball. They are

embarrassed to encounter him alone. There's a moment of suspension, and

then Higen throws the ball to Algren.

Algren looks back and forth between the two boys, fixes his gaze on Higen

but throw the ball to Toshiie, causing both boys to laugh and run awa y.

Algren walks on.

INT.                SMALL ROOM                           DAY

Algren opens a sliding shojii screen and discovers a small room that has been

made into a kind of shrine.

Cand1es and incense burn, a small Buddha sits on a dais, and Algren's eyes

are drawn to what seems like an apparition standing in the corner.

The BRIGHT RED ARMOR of the warrior Algren killed in the fog, is held

upright by an unseen stand. It is almost as if the dead warrior himself is

swing back at him.

Algren senses someone behind him and turns. The woman is standing across

the hall. Their eyes meet. She turn, and walks away.

EXT.               VILLAGE                            NIGHT

A first, light snowfall has covered the ground. A1gren walks out into the still

night. He turns a corner and confronts curious sight:

Ten warriors kneel, motionless in the snow, their eyes closed in concentration.

As Algren puzzles over this, he becomes aware that Katsumoto is now

standing next to him.

Algren looks at him. He has never heard the word.

Algren does not respond.

Katsumoto doesn't answer.

Katsumoto walks awa y.

INT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                       DAY

Algren it now well enough to kneel at the table with the others. Taka treats

him with utter politeness and dignity. He watches her intently, seeking any

sign of the animosity he's certain she must feel.

She hands him a bowl of rice.

She bows, uncomprehending.

Yoritomo bows in response to Algren's new willingness to communicate.

.EXT.             VILLAGE -- BATHING TUB                            DAY

Yoritomo leads Algren to a large, wooden bathing tub in I secluded part of

the village. A banked fire smolders beneath it.

Embarrassed, Yoritomo indicates to Algren that be needs to bathe. Algren

strips off his filthy uniform then lowers himself into the steaming water.

Yoritomo begins taking off hit own kimono. A1gren is taken aback. Used to

Western privacy, he is a bit disquieted about bathing with another man.

Yoritomo, unconcerned, climbs into the tub. He chats pleasantly as they

bathe, showing off his old battle wounds.

Algren's discomfort turns to outright alarm when a toothless old grandmother

appears. .She happily strips and joins them in the tub!

Algren sinks a little lower into the water. The old grandmother smiles at

him with her toothless grin.

EXT.            VILLAGE                          DAY

Algren. feeling self-conscious in the clean kimono he's wearing for the first

time, walks back with Yoritomo. Kids start walking with them, pointing at

his Japanese garb, laughing as he stumbles in his wooden clogs. They pass

by Ujio training a group of samurai using wooden kendo swords.

Nearby, Higen and Toshiie are imitating the grown-ups, sparring with wooden

swords that are much too big for them. Yoritomo watches his nephews proudly,

murmuring details of their prowess to Algren, who has no idea what he's talking

about.

Higen charges his little brother, but goes careening past, right toward Algren,

who deftl y dodges out of the wa y. This causes gales of laughter from the

boys, one of whom takes Toshiie's sword and offers it to Algren.

Algren looks at the sword in his hand and unthinkingly twirls if with a f1ourish --

causing the boys to applaud. Yoritomo bows, and encourages A1gren in

Higen's direction. Algren shakes his head politely, but Higen is already on

the attack.

Algren dodges one thrust, then parries another, as the boys begin to cheer.

Suddenly, ever yone goes silent. Algren turns.

Ujio is standing behind him, arms folded.

Ujio barks a command in Japanese. He wants Algren to drop the sword.

It is obvious to Algren what it must mean, but he does nothing.

Ujio approaches Algren slowl y. Algren holds the wooden sword casually,

only his eyes betraying the tension of the moment.

Ujio's wooden sword FLASHES, quicker than the eye can follow. Algren's

sword is knocked from his hands, then, somehow in the same fluid

movement, Ujio brings the sword around and cracks Algren across the

chest hard enough to knock the breath from his body and lend him to his

kneels.

Satisfied with himself, Uji o starts to walk away, but the expressions of the

bystanders cause him to turn back: .

Algren is standing again, and again holding the sword.

With grim purpose, Uji o returns to Algren, who has assumed a ready pose.

Again Ujio's SWORD FLASHES. Algren manages to parry one blow, before

he is cracked across the face, and blood begins to flow free1y from his nose.

on the ground, Ujio kicks Algren's sword out of his hand, and starts away.

Again, Algren manages to stand up, and before Ujio can turn, charges him.

But Uji o doesn't need to turn. In a sliding move, he dodges and cracks Algren

in the side, then the legs, then the neck. Gasping for breath, at least one rib broken,

Algren writhes on the ground. Ujio digs the point of his sword into

Algren's hand until he releases his grip. Again Ujio kicks the sword away.

The ever-enlarging crowd gasps as Algren once again struggles to his feet.

This time without hesitation, Uji o runs back and rains blows upon Algren's

now defenseless body. First the wrist, then the back, then the stomach, then

finally the head.

Algren hits the ground, unconscious, his fingers still clutching the sword.

Ujio reaches down, pries it from his fingers, and breaks it across his knee.

INT.              YORITOMO'S HOUSE                                   EVENING

Algren lies painfully on a mat, his eyes unfocused.

A sudden flash of memory:

The lovel y blond woman, tears in her eyes, looks up to Algren's shining face,

the epaulets on his crisp officer's, uniform gleaming gold in the sun.

The reverie is broken.

As Taka kneels to swab the cuts on his face. He stares at her darkly.

She makes no attempt to understand or respond.

She pushes his head aside so she can attend to his neck.

This last said so intensely that she glances at him before picking up a bowl

of soup she had brought for him, and bringing it to his lips...

He stares at her for a moment, then knocks the soup out of her blinds.

Her eyes FLASH for one moment, before resuming their usual mildness.

But that flash is enough to satisfy him, and he calms down. She walks away.

He sighs, exhausted, only to see her approach again with a new bowl. Their

eyes meet, and hold for a moment. She does have a soul. He takes a sip.

INT.                 SHINTO SHRINE                        DAY

Algren is led past baldheaded monks into an ancient shrine. Katsumoto

kneels before a small altar. He doesn't seem aware that Algren is present.

Katsumoto sits impassively, staring at the altar.

Shaking his head, Algren sits down.

The TWO OF THEM, hours later--

Algren eyes him, frustrated.

Katsumoto stands, bows, and leaves.

INT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                             DAY

Young Toshiie sits near Algren. He labors over a scroll with a brush, the

gentle brush strokes are hypnotic as they sweep across the rice paper.

Algren tries to indicate that he would like pen and paper for himself. Toshiie

gives him what he asks. Algren begins to write:

EXT.                        VILLAGE                            DAY

Katsumoto watches Ujio bark orders to the men he is training. A sudden

Movement of their eyes, causes Uji o to stop. He turns to find:

Algren standing at the end of the line, holding I wooden sword.

An almost imperceptible look passes bet ween Ujio and Katsumoto, but Ujio's

Resentment is over-ruled. Without a word, he continues.

Algren does his best to follow the exercise.

Katsumoto, the slightest hint of a smile on his face, walks away.

INT.            YORITOMO'S HOUSE                          NIGHT

Algren now kneels at the table with the rest of the family as they eat. He is

in considerable pain from the rigors of training. He tries to roll the stiffness

out of his neck, when be notices that Higen it imitating him. Toshiie laughs.

Yoritomo sternly tells Higen not to make fun of their guest. Yoritomo

apologizes to Algren, who shakes his head unnecessary.

.                           Raisu? [Rice?]

They stop, shocked. He has spoken!

Yoritomo calls for Taka to serve him more rice, then begins yammering

enthusiastically in Japanese. Algren holds up his hand.

Yoritomo is hysterical with glee now.

The boys are suddenly dervishes, pulling various objects from the table and around the room, shouting the

Japanese words for each.

Algren shakes his head, and smiles for the first time in this stor y.

Yoritomo manages to quiet the boys. He points to himself.

Algren nods, and the boys start screaming "All-gren!"

She meets his eyes for the slightest moment, then looks down and walks away.

INT.              KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                            NIGHT

Katsumoto is arranging flowers. Algren watches in confusion, as this

powerful lord goes about doing something so feminine and delicate. Finally:

Katsumoto thinks about this.

............              it. ........Yes, I was a member of the government.

Katsumoto understands Algren's irony, but doesn't smile.

Katsumoto looks at A1gren.

He slowl y draws his long samurai sword, and places it next to the flowers on the table in front of him.

Katsumoto hands the sword to Algren. Algren studies it.

Katsumoto smiles at Algren's ignorance.

Algren holds the sword, cutting edge up. Katsumoto takes a silk cloth and drops it. It gently billows down -- and

splits evenly on the edge.

Algren hands the sword back. Suddenly, Katsumoto swings the sword, cleanly splitting the table in two.

Silence.

Katsumoto simply looks at him.

They look at each other. Some unexpected recognition has taken place.

Algren turns to go.

EXT.VILLAGE SQUARE DAY

We see the village swordsmith at work. He has been forging the same long samurai blade for months... Algren

watches him as he works.

EXT. VILLAGE DAY

Algren trains with the other men. He attempts an attack, which is easily brushed aside by Nakao. Algren ends

up in the dirt again.

EXT. VILLAGEDAY

Algren walking with Katsumoto -- they are deep in conversation.

EXT.               VILLAGE                      DAY

Two women are bowing repeatedly, chattering in smiling, earnest argument.

EXT.              YORITOMO'S                         HOUSE

Algren, holding the wooden sword in 1870'5 baseball manner, is coaxing Higen to throw the ball at him. The

children laugh as Algren hits it onto the next porch.

Taka watches her sons impassively. It is dear how much they like Algren.

AN ICE CRYSTAL ON THE END OF A BRANCH

Starts to drip. SPRING bas begun.

BXT.                 VILLAGE                         DAY

Villagers laugh as they go about the business of life. A man throws a sack of rice to another. Two women hurry

awa y from a farmer who is teasing them.

Algren is once again among the training warriors. He and another man face off, each waiting for the other to

attack with his wooden sword.

Algren moves first, but his opponent counters, and strikes him easily. They wheel around and engage again,

and again Algren is bested. Furious, he throws himself at his opponent, reverting to classic saber technique.

In a flurry of movement, his opponent manages to deflect the blows and also knock Algren to his knees.

Yoritomo approaches and bows.

Algren nods, uncertainly, and picks himself up. Again he faces the opponent, shaking off the tension and trying

to stay calm.

This time the opponent charges first, and Algren manages to parry one blow, before he is again bested.

Yoritomo bows happily and begins yammering in Japanese, clearly taking credit for Algren's progress.

Across the square, Katsumoto watches.

EXT.                     IMPERIAL PALACE GARDEN                                   DAY

The cherry blossoms have emerged, creating a scene of intense col or, beauty,

and serenity. The Emperor sits cross-legged next to a shrine. He is approached by Omura and two other

advisors.                                                                        .

EXT.                                VILLAGE                          DAY

Algren walks through the village, past the swordsmith who is now honing the blade, carefully sharpening it.

.EXT.                    CHERRY TREE FOREST                              DAY

Algren makes his way through a stunning cherry forest near the village. The pink and red blossoms are dazzling

and abundant. Other villagers can be seen gathering cherry bl ossoms.

It is a place of otherworldly beaut y.

It is all so beautiful that Algren just stops. Takes it in for a moment. He reaches out and touches a blossom.

Algren turns. Katsumoto is kneeling nearby, meditating.

Katsumoto appraises Algren.

A beat. Something flickers in Algren's eyes.

Katsumoto looks at him deepl y.

He smiles sadly.

A beat. He stands, takes in the beautiful cherry orchard.

He goes. Algren stands for a moment deep in thought

INT.                      YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               NIGHT

Algren is asleep. And then we note that the ground is vibrating .. he slides

across his mat .- wakes with a start

An unholy rumbling-

Algren bolts up ... just as a paper wall rips open, the wooden framework to the room splits

and the roof collapses--

An earthquake. Common for this part of Japan.

EXT.                     VILLAGE                            NIGHT

Yoritomo appears. He and Algren crawl out of the house just as the ground lurches

violently-

Part of the house contorts and caves in

Around the village, the wooden frame houses are swa ying and lurching they have some

torque, but not enough

Ujio directs the villagers as they battle a fire-

Taka appears, calling frantically for Toshiie.

Then an even larger seismic tremor suddenly TEARS THROUGH THE

VILLAGE

Houses are ripped apart -- the whole world shifting.

Though the smoke, Algren sees Toshiie cowering under an eave

A heavy ceiling beam breaks loose, threatens to crush Toshiie

Algren dives forward, grabs Toshiie and pulls him out of the wa y... the front

of the house collapses, the beams smashing to the ground..

Taka and Higen race to Algren and Toshiie. The boy is safe.

Taka grabs the child and cradles him. Her look to Algren is fierce, protective,

almost feral -- as if he were the threat instead of the rescuer.

EXT.                       VILLAGE                               DAY

Algren watches the villagers rebuild. Yoritomo and Higen strugg1e with a large

wooden framework.

Algren goes to them. Silently begins to help them.

INT.                 YORITOMO'S HOUSE                                    DAYS LATER

Algren works with Yoritomo, binding the wooden framework. Higen prepares

the paper walls nearby. He does this with considerable skill.

Taka is getting water from a rain barrel she observes Algren helping

rebuild her home. Yoritomo is working nearby.

Algren's Japanese is rough but improving:

Algren shakes his head. Taka appears with cups of water. Algren looks at her

For the first rime, she holds his gaze.

EXT.                  YORITOMO'S HOUSE                               EVENING

Torches illuminate a small stage in the center of the village square. Several

samurai perform a ritualistic Noh drama. (A form which, by the wa y, the

samurai invented.) Others play flutes and large steel drums.

Katsumoto himself plays the lead role. An enthusiastic actor, he plays to the children in

the audience. They are delighted with his broad theatrics.

INT. YORITOMO'S HOUSE

Taka is carrying in a huge lack of rice. Algren goes to help her.

He carries the rice for her into the pantry area.

She looks at him, a little surprised.

In spite of herself, she smiles a little. There is an awkward moment.

They look at each other for a long moment. She starts to move, but he stops

her. They are close enough to smell each other's hair, to feel the warmth of

the other's breath. She looks up at him, pleading with her eyes not to take this any further.

He lets her go.

EXT.                 VILLAGE                   DAY

Algren stands across from Ujio, ready again for the ken-jutso.

They stand frozen for a long time, hands on the hilts of their wooden swords.

Other samurai watch.

Algren and Ujio stare at each other.

But there is something different about Algren's expression. Not as much

fury and competition, more a sense of balance and alertness. He studies Ujio's eyes, his hands,

the folds of his kimono, the attitude of his body.

We watch A1gren closel y.

Gradually all SOUND drains away. We hear only Algren's steady breathing. He is

aware of everything. A bird in a tree. A woman grinding rice. A plum about to fall.

A gently swa ying battle flag,

Slow-motion as:

Algren attacks -- no fury, just control-- Ujio tries to deflect the blow, Algren

anticipates - he swings his sword elegantly - -Ujio blocks it -- Algren counters --

Algren presses forward, his sword slashing masterfully, forcing Ujio back

Ujio counters with complex moves as he retreats --Algren keeps moving

forward, calm -- finally Ujio's sword is swept aside in one clean

movement. Algren ends with the edge of his wooden sword It Ujio's throat.

The other samurai watch. Amazed.

Algren twirls his sword in a fancy cavalry "fl ourish." The pride he has alwa ys taken in his

swordsmanship has been restored. He bows to Uji o.

Ujio nods his head, slightly, in respect

The other samurai, led by the hearty Nakao, congratulate Algren.

EXT. MEADOW                            DAY

Algren carries water from the river through a riot of spring wild-flowers. Something

makes him stop, and see the sunlit clouds in the deep blue sky, the colors around him, hear the

buzzing of the bees, feel the kill of the air.

A sudden flash of memory

His beautiful wife, in green field not unlike this one, laughing, tossing her hair, falling

back into the long grass.

Back to Algren

The force of the memory causes him to link to the ground.

Another flash of memory, longer this time:

His wi fe leans over and kisses his mouth, and his cheek, and his forehead. He holds

her al tightly as be can.

Back to Algren

As tears begin to course down his face, and he sinks down into the flowers and the grass,

looking up into the impossibl y beautiful sky. He gives in to the sobs wracking his body.

EXT.          VILLAGE                              DAY

As Algren returns with the water, he sees Katsumoto approaching with Ujio and several warriors.

He goes. Algren stands, not sure how to react.

INT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                         NIGHT

Algren writes on parchment by the light of an oil lamp.

EXT.         KATDUMOTO'S VILLAGE                     DAWN

Algren stands overlooking the village as the sun rises over the misty peaks.

EXT.                 YORITOMO'S HOUSE                     DAY

Algren prepares to mount up. Yoritomo says goodbye to his family.

Taka comes to Algren, bows her head.

He glances at the unfinished house.

She bows her head again. Toshiie hands him a scroll: it is a picture of the

Family. Algren is included. Japanese characters list all their names.

Toshiie bows. Algren bows and tucks the scroll into his coat.

Algren and Yoritomo move out with Katsumoto, Ujio, Nakao and his bodyguard of several

dozen Samurai.

The villagers bow and honor the warrior as they pass.

EXT.                    MOUNTAINOUS LANDSCAPE                             DAY

Algren trots alongside Katsumoto.

He spurs his horse and rides on. A1gren watches him.

EXT.         MOUNTAIN VALLEY                               SUNSET

They approach a large inn.

A boy working in the fields see Katsumoto approaching. He doesn't believe

it -- the Great Katsumoto. He drops his hoe and races awa y, calling out.

EXT.                      MOUNTAIN VALLEY                              SUNSET

Samurai guards have been posted around the perimeter.

INT.         KATSUMOTO'S RQOM                              NIGHT

Algren is escorted in. Katsumoto kneels at a table. Preparing the traditional Japanese tea ceremony.

Algren sits. By now he has learned how to sit on the ground. Katsumoto begins the exacting, delicate and

precise tea ceremony.

Katsumoto continues with the tea ceremony.

Katsumoto tosses a tiny bit of coal on the simmering brazier on the table. Algren watches carefully.

Katsumoto gently blows on the coal brazier. The coal flares a bit.

Katsumoto looks up at him. Impressed.

Katsumoto completes the tea ceremony. He pours a cup for Algren. Bows his head and offers it to him.

Katsumoto looks at Algren, the slightest gleam in his eye.

Algren watches him -- why didn't Katsumoto answer?

Katsumoto returns to his poem, he does not look up.

Algren waits but Katsumoto just continues to work on his poem.

EXT.                      AROUND THE INN                                 NIGHT

The samurai guards are alert, their senses heightened to almost superhuman proportions.

But there is another way. Another way of learning combat. A wa y without the

beaut y, the philosophy and the moral code.

They are almost imperceptible at first... their head-to-toe black clothes a perfect

camouflage... their silence and stealth are otherworldly.

They were then known as Shinobi, masters of stealth and spying.

We know them as Ninjas.

They float across the ground ... creeping an inch ever y hour... complete

physica1 control. One black-gloved finger moves. Then the next...

They crawl and then wait

Poised on their fingertips and toes.

There is no sound as they strike.

The samurai guards are garroted in an instant. Other Ninjas catch the

samurai's weapons as they fall. No sound disturbs the peaceful night.

EXT.                  INN -- FRONT DOORWAY                                  NIGHT

Silence.

Two samurai guards are in position.

One of them glances up at the stars.

A Ninja throwing star instantly slices into his jugular-- blood sprays -- the other

guard turns  a series of Ninja slice into him...

EXT.                    INN--WALLS                                  NIGHT

Silence.

The Ninjas use mew claws to crawl up the walls like spiders.

EXT.               INN  ROOF                               NIGHT

Silence.

A samurai guard stands at the edge of the roof. A Ninja silently moves

toward him. Stops. Ten feet awa y.

He pulls out a shuriken -- a small needle-shaped projectile, dips it into a sack of

poison. Places it carefully into the palm of his hand. And with the flick of his

wrist--

The needle flies -- stabbing into the samurai -- he crumples.

Other Ninjas immediately pour over the edge of the roof -- catching the samurai before he falls...

INT.                          INN -- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                         NIGHT

Silence.

Katsumoto cannot sleep. He stares out the window at a nightingale.

INT.                       INN--UJIO'S ROOM                   NIGHT

Silence.

Ujio sits in his room. He is unblinking. Alert. Swords at the ready.

INT.                           INN  ALGREN'S ROOM                       NIGHT

Silence.

Algren cannot sleep either. He sits leaning against a wall. Thinking.

INT.                       INN -- MAIN HALL                     NIGHT

Silence.

Yoritomo drinks tea with Nakao, the huge martial arts master.

INT.                         OUTSIDE KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                         NIGHT

A guard stands sentinel. Above his head, unbeknownst to him, two Ninjas descend on ropes.

One of them swings a long chain - to which I barbed-knife is attached.

As it lodges in the guard's chest, the second Ninja swings down just in time to catch the dead guard,

silently, before his body hits the ground.

INT.                          INN -- KATSUMQTO'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Silence.

Katsumoto lies in bed listening to the night bird. It stops singing. Katsumoto smiles sadly. He

decides to give up on sleep, leans forward to rise.

This act saves his life.

For when the Ninjas come, they come all at once--

A Ninja suddenly comes TEARING STRAIGHT THROUGH THE PAPER WALL, his sword

slashing down .- just missing Katsumoto.

Katsumoto calls out an alarm, diving and rolling across the floor for his sword. He instantly

kills one Ninja using his steel-tipped "war fan" to slash his attackers throat. Another smashes

in through the window.

INT.                  INN -- MAIN H ALL                      NIGHT

Ninjas EXPLODE into the main hall. Samurai who come out of their rooms are cut down by a

variety of weapons -- one takes a throwing star in the face, others are felled by the traditional

ninja-to, short swords ideal for fighting in confined spaces, chain-knives, nun-chaka and others.

More Ninjas drop from the rafters on ropes.

INT.                          INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                              NIGHT

A Ninja SMASHES through the paper wall -- Algren grabs the nearest object, a low tea table.

and swings it at his head. The Ninja dodges the blow and slices at Algren with short-sword.

Algren barely avoids the blow by ducking behind a post as the sword LODGES

deep in the wood. Algren flings himself, bodily, at his attacker.

INT.                      INN-- MAIN HALL                           NIGHT

Ninja throwing stars spin across the room, killing a samurai.

Yoritomo emerges from his room, readying his bow, but the dead samurai falls back

blocking his wa y. From behind the rice wall, Yoritomo lets fly an arrow without even

looking.

It passes THROUGH the wall, killing the Ninja on the opposite balcony.

INT.                         INN-- FIRST FLOOR                    NIGHT

Ujio screams a war cry and begins to battle his way up the stairs. With breathtaking moves, he slashes

hands and limbs, forcing the Ninja back.

Nakao fights his wa y up beside him, desperately trying to reach Katsumoto's room. Using

only his bare hands he catches a Ninja's wrist and hurls him over the railing.

INT.                         INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Algren and the Ninja are in a death struggle, kneeing, gouging, butting. They awkwardly smash

through a paper wall into the next room.

INT.                     INN -- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                      NIGHT

Katsumoto wields his long sword in one hand and his short sword in the other. It is the first time

we have seen him in action and his movements are both beautiful and deadly.

But more Ninjas are pouring in through the window, threatening to overwhelm him.

INT.                            INN -- ALGREN'S ROOM                    NIGHT

Rolling on the ground, Algren manages to grab a chopstick and STAB his adversary through the eye.

He picks up the fallen short sword and steps out into the hall.

ARROWS whiz past, thudding into the wall beside his head.

INT.                     INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT

Katsumoto, breathing heavily, his kimono shredded and bloody, is fending off the Ninjas' increasingly

savage attacks as Algren enters.

Algren SCREAMS, distracting them just long enough for Katsumoto to take advantage and kill one.

Then, just as a Ninja it about to kill Algren, Katsumoto FLINGS his short sword ... it pin-wheels across the

room, hitting Algren's attacker in the chest.

Without missing a beat, Algren pulls the short sword from the dying Ninja's chest and uses it to stab

another Ninja who, thinking Algren defenseless, has launched an attack.

INT.                         INN -- MAIN HALL                       NIGHT

Ujio and Nakao are back to back, a perfect fighting machine as they fight their wa y to

Katsumoto's rescue. They battle Ninjas wielding lethal kusarigamas, the Ninjas swing chains,

the attached blades slice the air--Nakao catches the chains and flinging the Ninja

over the balcony.

INT.               YORITOMO'S ROOM                           NIGHT

Yoritomo is pinned down. Darts and throwing stars shred the rice paper wall above him. He

picks off another Ninja before changing his position.

INT.                   INN-- KATSUMOTO'S ROOM                          NIGHT

The blazing sword battle continues.

Algren throws a beautiful painted standing-screen in front of an attacking Ninja,

momentarily confusing him. Then he stabs THROUGH THE SCREEN -as a blood-

stain SPREADS across the pastoral painting.

But another Ninja catches Algren off-guard and slices at him with his short sword. As

Algren lifts his sword to parry the blow, HIS LITILE FINGER IS CHOPPED OFF.

He drops the sword, momentarily defenseless.

Across the hallway

Yoritomo has been watching the shadowpla y on the rice-paper walls.

Algren's attacker raises his blade to deliver the death blow.

In Katsumoto's room

Algren flinches involuntarily beneath the raised blade. Suddenly the Ninja JACKKNIFES

as if punched by an unseen hand. As he spins, dead, to the ground, we SEE an ARROW

lodged bet ween his shoulder blades. Yoritomo has FIRED blindly, through the wall

killing Algren's attacker.

Nearby, a Ninja hurls a throwing star at Katsumoto. With blind instinct Katsumoto

turns and takes the blade in the meat of his arm.

Algren, meanwhile, has ripped the sleeve of his kimono into a tourniquet for his maimed hand.

He uses the rest of the fabric TO TIE HIS HAND TO HIS SWORD before launching himself

back into the fray -- slicing an attacker just as he is about to impale Katsumoto.

Together, he and Katsumoto force the last two Ninjas through a paper wall to the next room.

They fight all the wa y through that room and BLAST through another paper wall to the next.

INT.                  INN  STAIRWAY                           NIGHT

The battle continues unabated on the stairs -- the Ninjas spring for position with

incredible grace --perching and fighting on banisters, leaping from one level to the next.

It is a mayhem of flashing swords and flailing limbs and flyi ng arrows and spinning Ninja stars.

Sprays of blood splatter against the white rice paper walls.

Some of the fighting is less than elegant. Men bite and wrestle and gouge to

survive in close quarters.

All of them arc bloody and sweat y and dirty and tired, heaving for breath, their skin flayed

open, their kimonos ripped, their hands and arms and faces blood-stained.

But more samurai reinforcements follow Ujio up the stairs: Together with Yoritomo

and Nakao, they have begun to gain the upper hand.

Ujio flings both his swords through the air -- killing two Ninjas -- and dives to

fight others - his martial arts skills are dazzling.

Algren and Katsumoto are fighting sidc by side

And we cut to --

EXT.                INN                             NIGHT

Outside of the inn, we slowl y pull away...

The sounds of the battle gradually fade...

Soon it is nothing more than a lovel y rustic inn nestled in the mountains.

INT.                          INN  STAIRWAY                        NIGHT

Later. The battle is over.

Ninja and samurai corpses litter the inn.

We slowl y move up the long stairwa y from the bottom...

Yoritomo pulls a Ninja star from Nakao's_shou1der. Then one from his own.

We move up another level, past more bodies...

Ujio moves through the Ninjas. Making sure they are dead. Before sheathing

his sword, he angrily FLICKS it at the rice paper wall, spattering it with the bloody spray.

Katsumoto wipes his sword on a nearby corpse, replaces it in its sheath. He sits beside

Algren on a stair. Both men are exhausted. Bloodied. Alive.

A long beat as we watch the two warriors.

Slow fade to...

EXT.                TOKYO -- IMPERIAL PALACE                     DAY

Algren, Katsumoto and the others are nearing the palace. Algren slows to a

stop -- his path is toward the city. Katsumoto stops, looks at him, then does

something absolutel y extraordinary.

He kneels and bows before Algren. Quickly touching his head to the dirt.

Then he rises, turns and walks toward the palace.

Algren stands, stunned.

EXT.                  PARADE GROUND                              DAY

Algren walks onto the parade ground. The change he sees could not be more remarkable.

Thousands of new Japanese troops are drilling with new bolt-action Mausers. They

are precise, exact and frighteningly mechanistic, their uniforms new and crisp.

New German advisors are barking commands. Colonel Bagley sees him.

Bagley runs over, hand extended, but Algren turns to look at the troops.

And they come to the "teeth." Howitzer cannons. A row of them. Artillery

officers in US Army uniforms arc instructing Japanese offi cers.

Algren starts walking away.

And we see it... snapping on I flagpole high above the parade ground.

It is immediately familiar. A red circle on a white field. The Rising Sun.

The Howitzers fire in sequence. Thundering blasts that shake the heavens.

EXT,               ROYAL TEMPLE                               DAY

Omura stands above Emperor Meiji respectful but persistent.

The Emperor is kneeling, tending to his iris garden. It is one of the wonders of the Palace: a

sea of white, pink, blue, and purple blossoms.

Retainers and servants stand at a distance. One holds a standard with the Imperial seal: a yellow

chrysanthemum.

Omura sees Katsumoto making his way toward them. He talks a bit more quickly to the Emperor.

Katsumoto begins to prostrate himself before the Emperor, the usual sign of extreme

respect -- but the Emperor stops him:

Katsumoto stops prostrating himself. The Emperor offers his hand.

It is a difficult moment for Katsumoto. He simply cannot do It.

Omura appreciates Katsumoto's droll response. He assumes that Katsumoto is aware of

his part in the assassination attempt.

Omura bows his head quickly and goes.

Silence. The Emperor gazes at Katsumoto. Then:

The young emperor is silent a moment.

The emperor laughs warmly, almost happy to be scolded as he once was.

EXT.                YOKOHAMA WHARF                             DAY

A series of warehouses, beyond which we see warships in the harbor. A1gren walks

with Bagley and two other OFFICERS.

INT.                      WAREHOUSE                            DAY

The cavernous warehouse piled high with huge crates.

A few stevedores tear open one of the crates. Algren hides his astonishment:

A Gatling Gun is revealed.

Algren closes his eyes, trying to keep his memories at bay.

EXT.                           TOKYO STREETS                          DAY

Algren fights the crowds with Colonel Bagley And Ambassador Swanbeck..

New construction ever ywhere. Telegraph wires strung next to an ancient

temple. A modern European hotel is going up, dwarfing the traditional Japanese

buildings. Huge billboards advertising Western goods. A new invention, the rickshaw,

has replaced many of the palanquins.

Spider's web of telegraph cables spread from a tall new brick building.

It is like a New York office building stabbing into the heart of old

Japan.

The familiar Omura character is emblazoned on the side.

.INT.             OFFICES OF THE OMURA ZAIBATSU                                        DAY

Aside from the occasional bit of Japanese decor, this could be a buzzing Wall Street firm.

Telegraph operators click away. Accountants use adding machines. Secretaries

use pneumatic tubes to send documents back and forth. Engineers plot out

railway lines. All are dressed in Western clothes.

Algren, Colonel Bagley, and Ambassador Swanbeck enter.

An anteroom holds waiting delegations from the various European powers.

A babel of language. ... French ...Dutch ...Russian ...German.

A pretty American secretary looks up from her desk.

Some of the delegates arc craning forward, watching Algren and the others hungrily

as they head into the final office.

INT.             OMURA'S OFFICE                            DAY

Omura stands like an industrial titan before large picture windows offering a dramatic view of Tokyo.

The only decoration in the room is an enormous Caravaggio.

Omura removes a gold cigarette case and lights up. Cigarettes are the newest Western fad

Sweeping Japan.

Omura gazes at him. Slowl y takes I puff from his cigarette.

Ambassador Swan beck stands swallowing his rage.

They start to go.

Bagley looks at Algren. Do as he asks. He leaves A1gren alone with Omura.

Omura lights his cigarette. A moment as he takes Algren's measure.

Algren says nothing.                            .

Omura smiles.

Now it is Algren who smiles.

He watches Algren to see how this lands.

Algren considers the implications of what Omura is saying.

INT.                    SHIPPING OFFICE                      DAY

Algren is in a shipping office. A clerk consults his schedule of departure.

Algren is silent, concentrating on a calendar hanging behind the clerk. It

features a beautiful Hiroshigi watercolor of mountains.

EXT.                   TOKYO  STREET                             DAY

Graham walks with Algren.

Algren starts to walk faster, but Graham Stops him.

Then raised voices from across the street stop them.

They see Yoritomo surrounded by four Imperial Army soldiers. The soldiers

are rough and imperious, drunk with power. They carry gleaming rifle..

The soldiers bark orders. Yoritomo stands proudly, responding calmly.

Algren arrives as the situation is clearly growing volatile - the soldiers are

pointing to Yoritomo's head, screaming

Algren steps toward the soldiers--

One of the soldiers SCREAMS at him -- raises his rifle -- all the soldiers raise their rifles

Yoritomo reaches for his sword -- Algren tries to push through -

One of the soldiers smacks Algren in the chin with a rifle butt. Algren reels,

and by the time he stands straight again, four others are pointing their

ba yonets at his face.

Graham takes hold of Algren's arm.

Algren makes eye contact with Yoritomo, who -- in deference to his friend --

puts his sword away.

The Japanese soldiers continue to scream at Yoritomo. They force him to his knees.

Rifles pressed to his head.

Yoritomo bows his bead, speaking quietly, as if praying.

Algren witches in horror all one of the soldiers removes his bayonet -- another grab.

Yoritomo's hair, jerks his head back and begins hacking off Yoritomo's traditional top-knot

of hair. Brutally. Blood.

Yoritomo remains kneeling, head down, blood flowing down his face.

The soldiers laugh and move off.

Algren kneels by Yoritomo. Yoritomo looks up at him. There are tears in

his eyes.

EXT.                  KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                                    DUSK

Katsumoto's house on the outskirts of Tokyo is spacious and

harmonious. Utterly Japanese. Samurai guards in full regalia, stand

menacingly outside.

INT.                   KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                                   DUSK

Ujio kneels with Yoritomo, dressing the wounds on his head.

Graham sits across the room talking quietly to the mammoth Nakao, taking

notes in a small notebook. Nakao has been brutally shorn of his top knot

as well. His shame is apparent.

INT.                     KATSUMOTO'S CHAMBER                          DUSK

Servants he1p dress Katsumoto in his exacting samurai wardrobe as Algren is ushered in.

As Katsumoto dresses, Algren notes that Katsumoto's body it at battleground

of old scars, so like his own.

Algren stops. He knows what swords mean to the samurai.

Algren picks up Katsumoto's two swords. Looks at him deeply.

He holds out Katsumoto's two samurai swords.

They regard each other.

EXT.                      OUTSIDE KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT

Algren leaves Katsumoto's gate and sets off on foot.

EXT.                        TOKYO STREETS                               NIGHT

As Algren walks, he becomes aware that he is being followed. Two dark figures

lurk some distance behind him. After a few moments, he whips around to face

them. They stand for a moment, then melt away into the shadows.

INT.                      COUNCIL OF STATE CHAMBER                          NIGHT

The Council of State meets in an august chamber. Many of the Council

members wear Western clothes. Cigarette smoke billows.

The young Emperor sits on a dais off to the side, as befits his

ceremonial role in the proceedings.

Omura is speaking ... be stops ... looking at something ... all the Council members turn ... and gape.

Katsumoto strides into the chamber, his swords proudly displayed.

Katsumoto slowl y looks around at the Members of the Council, but his words are addressed

to the Emperor.

Omura speaks with quiet conviction and honesty.

They stare at one another with barely concealed hostility.

Katsumoto's hand closes on his sword hilt

Katsumoto looks to the Emperor, as murmurs fill the room.

One last time, Katsumoto meets the Emperor's eye.

Omura looks to his associates, and a silent decision is made.

Guards with Mauser rifles move into position around Katsumoto. He turns to

the other Council members. Looks at them.

Omura nods to the guards. The guards lead Katsumoto out.

EXT.                            LIVING QUARTERS                       AFTERNOON

A BEARER is loading the last of Algren's luggage on the back of a rickshaw.

Algren emerges from the building, sees the same two disreputable MEN

who followed him earlier lurking nearby.

He resists the temptation to confront them. Instead he climbs into the

rickshaw and it starts off.

But a moment later, Graham has jogged alongside, huffing and puffing.

Algren indicates for the bearer to stop. Graham tries to catch his breath.

Graham stops, sees the look on Algren's face, realizes.

..................................   ...I told you they were a remarkable people...

Algren doesn't answer, but isn't denying it either.

Graham notices Algren staring at his followers.

A look bet ween them, then Algren nods for the bearer to continue.

EXT.                  HARBOR                             SUNSET

Algren stands at the gangplank. Porters wait with his luggage. Algren looks

back into the crowd and sees the ronin. They glare back, no longer trying to

keep out of sight.

A BLAST from the steam whistle.

Algren looks from the ship, to the ronin, to the bustling, chaotic city behind

them. Finally, he looks out at the harbor and the ocean, beyond which

used to lie his home.

He turns to the bearer.

And Algren starts back into the city.

EXT.             TOKYO STREETS               EVENING

Down a shadowy street, lit only by t orches. Slowl y we realize he is being

followed and that he knows it.

Up ahead, the street appears to dead-end.

The two Ronin step out from the shadows and face him, their hands on

their swords.

Behind him, Another dangerous looking Ronin joins the one who has been

following him.

They begin to close in.

Algren stands completely still. They grow closer.

Algren appears to close his eyes. And the sound of the approaching footsteps

fades as We HEAR ONLY the sound of his breathing.

The Ronin draw their swords.

Algren gently opens his eyes. Ever ything has SLOWED DOWN: a sign in

the breeze, a piece of rubbish on the street, the flame of a nearby torch.

A BLUR OF MOTION.

Everything happens so fast it is hard to tell just what has taken place. In the

strobing shadows, all we really know is that Algren has leapt to the attack.

Within seconds, four bodies lie in the street

Algren holds bloody sword.

His face is cut and a sleeve of his jacket is ripped, but other than that he is

unharmed. Ujio has taught him welt

As he stands, catching his breath, we HOLD on his face in CLOSE-UP.

A sudden flash:

We see Algren grab one of the torches and smash it across the ronin's face.

It is the attack  replayed in real-time.

Rolling to avoid a death-blow, he grabs the fallen man's sword and eviscerates attacker #2.

The two remaining Ronin strike.

He parries the blow of attacker #3, whirls to slice the legs of attacker #4,

whirls again to cut off the hand of attacker #1, who has returned to the attack.

Meanwhile, attacker #3 serums and charges -- just lit attacker #4 is trying to stand.

Algren steps back as attacker #3 impales attacker #4. Algren steps forward and cuts off the head of attacker #3.

Even now, it has happened too fast to be truly appreciated.

BACK TO THE STREET

We move, closer-still on Algren's face.

A sudden flash:

And so we watch the attack again. in super-slow motion now, so we can fully

appreciate it's terrible beauty.

A torch smashes across a face.

A sword slices the sleeve of a coat.

Sparks fly as two swords meet.

A severed hand falls in the dirt.

Blood sprays from a decapitated head.

A sword is wiped clean.

BACK TO THE STREET

In real time, Algren kneels to examine one of the dead Ronin. On his arm is

tattooed a familiar emblem:

The sign of the Omura Zaibatsu

EXT.                OMURA CASTLE                       NIGHT

Omura lives in a huge medieval castle on a promontory directly above Tokyo

Ba y. A testament to Japan's martial past.

INT.                  CASTLE  TOWER                       NIGHT

Two guards arc: standing at attention in a dank corridor high in one of the

towers of the castle. Cell doors line the corridor.

Katsumoto's samurai swords lean against the wall next to them.

INT.                       CASTLE  CELL                           NIGHT

Katsumoto kneels in a cramped cell. A sound draws his attention. He rises

and looks out a barred window.

Bel ow he sees two rickshaws moving up the twisting road to the castle.

INT.                       RICKSHAW                     NIGHT

Algren and Bagley, in formal dress uniforms, sit in one of the rickshaws.

Bagley looks him over.

Bagley shakes his bead, turns away. Algren stares up at the looming aide.

EXT.                       CASTLE- MAIN GATES                               NIGHT

The two rickshaws stop by the heavily-guarded main gates. Guards check the occupants. Motion

to other guards atop the gates.

The main gates slowl y swing open.

EXT.                   CASTLE - COURT YARD                 NIGHT

The bearers lower the rickshaws. Algren and Bagley climb from one.

Ambassador Swanbeck climbs from the other.

EXT.              CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBE R                         NIGHT

Omura waits in elegant evening clothes. A woman plays a harp. The interior

of Omura's castle is heavy, oppressive. Old Masters paintings dot the walls.

Leather-bound boob. Chippendale furniture.

They move to chairs by the roaring fireplace as Omura turns to Algren,

noticing the cut on his face, but saying nothing.

The two men take each other's measures. Servants appear with trays..

Servants light their cigars.

Omura summons a servant. The servant escorts Algren out.

INT.                           CASTLE  CORRIDOR                          NIGHT

The servant leads Algren through a corridor, head bowed.

Then, stil1 puffing on his cigar, Algren taps the servant on the back, and as

the man turns, decks him. The servant falls.

Algren flicks hit cigar out onto the sloping roof. We FOLLOW the

BURNING EMBER as it rolls off the roof and lands at the feet of TWO

CURIOUS GUARDS.

EXT.                     CASTLE COURTYARD                        NIGHT

The guards look up, trying to determine where the cigar butt has come from.

But their curiosity lasts only a moment: ARROWS pierce their necks,

strangling any sound.

We REVERSE to discover that one of the rickshaw-bearers has fired the

arrows. As he peels back his hood, we SEE it is Yoritomo.

We realize the other bearers are Ujio, Nakao, and Simon Graham. They

hurry past the dead guards and up the stairs.

INT.                 CASTLE APPROACH                            NIGHT

The three samurai and Graham race up the winding parapets.

Three GUARDS round a corner. Swords flash as Ujio and Nakao dispatch

them without even slowing. They race on, Graham laboring to keep up.

INT.                    CASTLE KEEP                     NIGHT

Algren rounds a corner--

Ujio, Yoritomo, Nakao, and Graham are moving toward him.

Clearly, this has all been Algren's plan. They move up a stairwa y.

INT.                CASTLE KEEP (SECOND FLOOR)                           NIGHT

The three guards are still standing at attention outside Katsumoto's cell.

His swords are next to them.

Algren keeps the others out of sight and lowers his head to whisper with

Ujio. Ujio nods, then walks into sight and calmly approaches the guards.

Still hidden, Algren gestures for the others remain to silent. After a

moment, he gestures that they can proceed.

Algren and the others round the comer to discover the bloody remains of

the three guards - whom Ujio has dispatched in absolute silence. They unlock

the cell.

INT.                   CASTLE  CELL                         FOLLOWING

Katsumoto is shocked to see Algren enter. Algren tosses him his swords.

INT.                      CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBER                     NIGHT

Omura glances up from the documents.

INT.                       CASTLE  CORRIDOR                          NIGHT

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others race through an upper corridor.

Suddenly, from below, the raised voices of guards. They hurry a wa y.

INT.               CASTLE  STAIRS                     NIGHT

Guards carrying pikes race up the stairs--

INT.                CASTLE  CORRIDOR                  NIGHT

Algren and the others are moving swiftl y down a stone corridor.

The sound of the approaching guards is growing louder.

A silent WILD BUNCH moment of preparation as they stride down the

corridor, five abreast.

Algren pulls the cavalry saber from his dress uniform. Katsumoto prepares

his swords. Nakao stretches his huge arms. Yoritomo and Uji o draw their bows.

EXT.                   CASTLE - UPPER COURTYARD                        FOLLOWING

Ten guards with rifles patrol the upper battlements.

Yoritomo and Uji o crouch and fire. Arrow a fter arrow a fter arrow, as

fast as a repeating rifle, the arrows streak through the night.

Completely silent.

It is a dazzling display. They time shots to sail over walls, shoot through

tiny windows, shoot out torches. Multiple arrows. Perfect aim.

In a matter of seconds all ten guards are dead.

They continue across the courtyard, up some steps --

INT.             CASTLE--TIGHT CORRIDOR                         FOLLOWING

They stride through a tight, dark stone corridor.

Suddenly, a cadre of Omura guards emerge from the shadows.

Without hesitation, they launch into battle. Algren and Katsumoto wield

their swords. Yoritomo and Ujio fire arrows.

Nakao fights with his hands, dramatic martial arts from the huge man.

But this corridor is just too tight -- it is a sea of combat.. the guards and

our warriors are slammed together --the swords and pikes sending up sparks

in the darkness as they strike the stone walls.

The right corridor echoes with samurai war cries and clanging swords.

Then...

More guards appear.

These guards have rifles.

Rifle blasts thunder --startling strobe-like bursts of light in the darkness --

Algren dives in front of Katsumoto to protect him-

Yoritomo is hit-

He jerks back -- blood--

Ujio fires arrows at the guards with rifles, hitting two -- but more guards with rifles are appearing, bullets

sending showers of debris and ricochets--

Algren sees a stairway leading to a higher 1evel, barks out a command. As Nakao drags

Yoritomo toward the stairs-- the others bolt a heavy SIEGE DOOR

designed to keep attackers at bay.

INT.                        CASTLE SIEGE ROOM                           NIGHT

Ujio fires arrows through the siege ports -- momentarily delaying the guards

as Algren leads them toward a rear stairs.

INT.                       REAR STAIRS                      NIGHT

Algren starts down -- only to discover MORE GUARDS blocking this means

of escape. He backs out of the wa y just in time as rifle blasts SPLINTER

the wooden stairwe11.

Meanwhile, an EXPLOSION from behind them indicates that the guards

have blown the siege door.

Algren, Graham, and Ujio have no choice but to continue upwards into the

castle keep. Nakao helps the wounded Yoritomo as they climb.

INT.                UPPER KEEP                    NIGHT

A narrow ladder leads to the final redoubt. They start to climb but Yoritomo

leans against the wall. He is gravely wounded.

Yoritomo's determination is absolute. Finally, Algren nods.

Katsumoto moves to Yoritomo, leans in for a few final words, taking his

head and pressing his forehead to Yoritomo's.

Bullets begin ricocheting around them -- Yoritomo looks to Algren:

Algren bows his bead in respect.

Then Algren leads them up the stairs. Ujio fires a final volley, nods with

respect to Yoritomo, then follows the others.

Yoritomo pulls himself erect. Draws his two samurai swords.

A beat. He closes his eyes. Smiles.

Then he opens his eyes and hurls himself down the stairs--

The guards fire hitting Yoritomo - but still he comes -- wading into them

swords flashing -- he is hit again and again -- but still he comes.

It is a glorious death.

EXT.                      SIEGE ROOM                     NIGHT

Algren leads them into the highest room of the castle, the siege room. The

echoes Yoritomo's death rings in their ears.                                   .

Katsumoto glances at Ujio and Nakao. Without a word, they kneel on the

floor, open their kimonos and unsheathe their short-swords, preparing to

commit seppuku.

Katsumoto glares at him harshly, furious to have his concentration disturbed

at such a moment.

Reluctantly, Katsumoto joins him at the window.

Nakao and Ujio look at Katsumoto, awaiting his response. He turns to Algren.

And without another word he LAUNCHES himself out the window, onto the sloping roof.

EXT.                   CASTLE ROOF TOPS                          NIGHT

Like his cigar butt earlier in the sequence, he rolls, then falls, hits another

roof, rolls, slides, falls, hits again.

INT.                  UPPER KEEP                          CONTINUOUS

Katsumoto and the others share a look. Has he survived?

GUNFIRE begins to pepper the floorboards, bullets whistling past them.

EXT.                 CASTLE ROQF TOPS                          CONTINUOUS

Algren slides, bumps, rolls, falls, hits, then slides again. Until he finally plummets into the moat.

As his head rises above water, he lets out a scream of absolute joy.

INT.                  UPPER KEEP                    CONTINUOUS

Katsumoto hears the scream. A look of disbelief spreads over his face.

Then the beginnings of a smile. Without a second look, be leaps out the

window. Ujio follows.

Graham shrinks away in fear. Nakao lifts him bodily, throws him out, and then follows.

INT.                      CASTLE -- RECEPTION CHAMBER                        LATER

Omura stands, very calm, smoking a cigarette, listening to the report of his guards.

Colonel Bagley tries to apologize.

EXT.             HILLS                           SUNSET

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride over rocky ground.

In the distance a steam train chugs along. Inevitable. Progress.

EXT.                 FOREST  MOUNTAINS                     DAY

They climb a steep trail. Beyond, the glaciers glow pink.

Algren, Katsumoto, and the others ride through a dense forest Katsumoto

reins his horse. The others follow suit. They wait

Mounted samurai emerge from the thick forest As it they were invisible.

The leader leaps from his horse and bows, touching his head to the dirt.

All the other samurai follow suit.

EXT.    CHERRY TREE FOREST--NEAR THE VILLAGE                       EVENING

Katsumoto rides at the head of his samurai as they pass through the cherry

orchard. Then he reins his horse and falls in beside Algren.

Katsumoto laugh. And then in a surprisingly deft imitation of Algren

He spurs his horse and heads off. Algren shakes his head and follows.

EXT.               VILLAGE                     EVENING

The returning warriors are warmly welcomed by the villagers.

Algren rides directly to Yoritomo's house, dismounts.

Taka and Toshiie are waiting.

He goes to them. His expression tells them all they need to know.

INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                           NIGHT

Algren sits with the family. The boys sit next to their mother.

Taka looks at him, moved and surprised. Suddenly, Higen jumps up and

bolts... out of the room. Algren looks to Taka.

She smiles ever so slightly at his obliviousness.

EXT.             VILLAGE                    NIGHT

Higen stands, looking up at the stars.

Higen looks at him, tears welling in his eyes.

Algren has no answer. He can only gather the boy up in his arms and hold

him.

EXT VILLAGE DAY

Nakao is standing proudly, his massive arms folded across his chest. We

pull back: Graham is bunched behind his photographic equipment. A flash

of phosphorous and the moment is immortalized.

Meanwhile, Algren is working with Higen on the house.

Katsumoto silently watches Algren working with the boy.

Algren turns.

EXT      MOUNTAINS          DAY

Algren and Katsumoto perch on a precipice, looking down into a valley.

It is a beautiful setting. Towering peaks and peaceful valleys. It is here that

the final act of the inevitable drama will play out.

Bel ow they see the Imperial Army, thousands strong, marching across the

valley toward them. Terrifying martial columns in strict formation.

Katsumoto listens carefully to Algren's expertise.

Katsumoto takes this in.

EXT.                  VALLEY                             DAY

Colonel Bagley, Omura, several German advisors and Japanese officers ride

at the head of the Imperial Army.                                         .

Bagley sees something, raises a hand. The troops halt.

Algren and Katsumoto ride up to them. Stop.

Omura meets Katsumoto's look, nods. Bagley turns to Algren.

Algren and Katsumoto wheel their horses and go.

EXT.                 MOUNTAIN RIDGE                      DAY

Algren and Katsumoto ride.

Katsumoto considers this. Algren looks up into the mountains.

Algren nods. He remembers.

Algren lifts his head, enjoying the feeling of the sun and wind on his face.

Katsumoto stares at him for a long moment, then smiles and spurs his horse. Algren follows.

They ride together, side by aide, the wind billowing their cloaks -- We enjoy the

ride as they do, the trees strobing by, the sun slanting through the leaves.

EXT.                      VILLAGE                       NIGHT

It is the eve of battle. And the samurai rejoice.

Katsumoto is on stage at the center of the village square, enthusiastically

performing a Noh drama. Algren sits with Toshiie and Taka in the audience,

enjoying Katsumoto's theatrics.

Other samurai can be seen around the village, eating, singing, and playing

instruments. Tonight is for celebrating life.

Elsewhere, a flash as Graham takes a photograph of some children.

On the stage, Katsumoto spots Algren in the audience, points to him and

encourages him to join him. Algren resists. Toshiie prods him. Algren

surrenders and joins Katsumoto on the stage. The villagers are delighted.

Katsumoto embroils Algren in the performance. Algren does his best,

laughing at Katsumoto's antics.

It is the freest and happiest we have ever seen Algren. Time

SLOWS as we Savor his simple enjoyment

Toshiie is highly amused. Taka has a deeper response, she is moved as she

watches Algren give himself over to the part.

EXT.            VILLAGE                      LATER THAT NIGHT

A somber mood has descended. Algren sits and writes in his journal.

A samurai plays a melancholy bamboo flute. The gentle sound floats through the village...

We see samurai preparing for the final battle. Some check

their armor... Others meditate...

Some make up their faces so they will look handsome when they greet death.

Some methodically polish their swords. Some sit with their families.

Ujio is performing a graceful, ritualistic sword-dance to the song of the flute.

Algren Joins Graham to watch him.

Taka comes to them.

Algren leaves Graham and accompanies Taka toward the house.

They pass Higen and Toshiie, who sit with other children at the feet of the

massive Nakao, listening to a quiet story he tells,

INT.                   YORITOMO'S HOUSE                     FOLLOWING

The gentle flute music from outside drifts in.

One of Yoritomo's beautiful kimonos is elegantly spread on a mat.

He nods.

She steps to him.

A moment. She gently reaches forward and unbuttons his collar.

A tender, silent scene as she undresses him and carefully wraps him in the

him. His movements are gentle in response.

When he is fully dressed, then are tears in his eyes.

Suddenly, fiercely, they are holding each other.

EXT.             KATSUMOTO'S HOUSE -- PORCH                  LATER THAT NIGHT

The quiet evening continues.

Algren, now dressed in the kimono, finds Katsumoto carefully dropping little

leaves of incense into a small flame that simmers inside his battle helmet.

Algren smiles, sits.

A si1ent beat.

Then Katsumoto picks up a long bundle wrapped in cloth. He unwraps it.

A beautilu1 long samurai sword.

He bows his head and offers it to Algren.

There are Japanese characters etched on the blade.

Algren is moved beyond words. He bows.

As the CAMERA pulls away, Algren and Katsumoto squat side by side,

drawing in the dirt with a stick, planning the next day's battle strategy.

Across the square, Ujio continues his elegant dance of death, his graceful

form illuminated in silhouette by a fire.

INT.          YORITOMO'S HOUSE                   MORNING

It is the day of the battle. Algren is buttoning the long coat of his cavalry uniform.

He looks up to see Higen standing in the doorwa y, holding the breast-plate

of his father's armor.

EXT.             YORITOMO'S HOUSE                 DAY

Algren emerges from the house, wearing the breast-plate over his coat.

Taka is at his horse, tying a bag of food to the saddle. She turns and sees her

husband's armor on this man. And her breath stops.

Algren approaches her. They stand very cl ose.

He bows his head to her, she responds. The boys stand on the porch,

watching. He mounts his horse and trots off. They watch him go.                      .

Algren joins the line of samurai leaving the village. It is the first time we have

seen them in their full battle armor since the battle in the fog.

Katsumoto in his black armor, Ujio in his jet black. And Algren in the blood-red

breast-plate. It is dazzling.

EXT.      BATTLEFIELD           DAWN

We move along the line of waiting samurai. The faces are stoic. Prepared.

Their horses are corralled well behind them.

Algren stands with Katsumoto and Ujio. Graham is nearby. They peer into the

plain beyond.

They have chosen a strong defensive position. A steep mountain pass. Slopes on either

side create a funnel ahead of them. The Imperial Army will have to pass through the

funnel to reach them.

On a hill above them

Higen is revealed. He looks down first at the five hundred Samurai, then

sees, beyond, the overwhelming mass of the IMPERIAL ARMY.

Back on the battlefield

A distant thud followed by a high-pitched whine. A MASSIVE EXPLOSION

ahead of the Samurai. Artillery.

Algren finds Graham cowering at the base of a straw barricade.

Graham would like to be brave enough to remain, but he is not a soldier.

Graham starts to go --

From his coat, Algren takes his journal, hands it to Graham.

He heads back to the relative safet y of the horse corral.

Meanwhile, the samurai remain impassive as artillery is stepped in closer, the

range bracketed. Then artillery rounds begin to fall among them.

Samurai are blown to pieces as they bravel y stand and await

death. Katsumoto BARKS a command to Ujio.

Suddenly, the Samurai break ranks and trot into a new defense

alignment. The artillery rounds now fall ineffectually where once

they stood.

Bagley directs the artillery to be re-targeted, It is a laborious, clumsy

process. They fire again. Another command. The Samurai change

position again.

Bagley is furious. Their fluid tactics have rendered his field artillery useless.

Katsumoto and Algren share a look of grim satisfaction. They are leveling

the playing field.

Bugle calls are heard from the Imperial Army.

The rattle of the snare drums. The sound of marching boots.

And then they appear. Thousands upon thousands of them. The Imperial

Army marching relentlessly forward in strict formation. The Rising Sun displayed.

Katsumoto gazes at the awe-inspiring sight. His 500 samurai face a staggering

5,000 soldiers.

Katsumoto glances to him, smiles.

EXT.                THE SAMURAI POSITION                     CONTINUOUS

The First Division of the Imperial Army moves into the funnel, their numbers

reduced by the size of the access, and head toward the barricade.

Katsumoto and Algren watch as they move closer and closer. We

are expecting the samurai to open fire, but they do not. They just

wait.

Finally the Imperial soldiers are in rifle range. They stop to fi re a volley.

Bullets begin hitting among the samurai. Many fall.

Algren nods to Katsumoto, Katsumoto then calls out a command and the

samurai retreat.

They race back toward the rear of the funnel.

The Imperial Army soldiers climb awkwardly over the first barricade and

pursue--

The samurai, meanwhile, have taken cover behind a second barricade that

had been hidden from the Imperial soldiers' view. Now safel y behind

the second barricade, Katsumoto calls out a command and--

The samurai fire!

500 arrows explode -- almost instantly followed by 500 more --

Like an image from Agincourt, the clouds of arrows sweep across the sky --

Imperial Soldiers fall, the attack falters--

From behind the new barricades, archers fire FLAMING ARROWS, that

Hit the old barricade. It EXPLODES INTO FLAMES, trapping the Imperia1

Army bet ween the two barricades.

And from the second barricade, two large CA TAPULTS send balls of flaming

pitch into the already panicking soldiers.

EXT.                        OPPOSING HILL TOP                    DAY

Colonel Bagley, Omura, several German advisers and Japanese Officers

watch through binoculars. Stunned. As the First Wave is routed.

EXT.                  BARRICADES                          DAY

Algren and Katsumoto wait behind the second barricade. We note that this

barricade is the real thing.

Katsumoto removes a piece of shattered armor from his left forearm, a

bullet wound beneath. Algren looks over the barricade.

They see Imperial soldiers using semaphore flags to communicate with their commanders

on the opposing hilltop.

Katsumoto considers the bodies of the dead Imperia1soldiers.

EXT.            BATTLE FIELD                   DAY

Bugles. The attack is reforming. Ranks now bolstered by reinforcements.

They come at a trot, through the narrow defile, skirting the first barricade,

continuing at a trot toward the second barricade.

EXT.              2ND BARRICADE                      DAY

Katsumoto pulls his long sword. Algren does the same.

Katsumoto calls out an order -- the archers fire another round.

The Imperial soldiers are being annihilated but still they come in great waves --

for ever y one who falls it seems there are ten to take his place.

They race forward, stepping over their fallen comrades, bayonets poised --

The Mauser rifles flash --

Bullets explode around the samurai, many are hit.

The Imperial Army has been trained to keep firing on the run. The waiting

Samurai will be decimated, except --

From the hills on either side

Fully half of the Samurai force -- who have been kept hidden until this moment...

charge, screaming into the flank of the attacking Army. Even rifles cannot fire in

three directions at once.

Algren and Katsumoto lead the charge over the second barricade. Some are cut down,

but in moments swords engage ba yonets in brutal hand-to-band combat.

Algren And Katsumoto fight back to back, as if one person, slashing with their

swords, shattering bayonet, dealing death on all sides.

Ujio crouches, his back leg straight and planted, his front leg bent. Still using

his bow, firing off arrows with Stunning speed, refusing to budge--

On the opposing hillside

Bagley and Omura watch the battle through binoculars.

In the midst of the battle

A charging soldier thrust     s his bayonet into Katsumoto's arm - Katsumoto kills,

the soldier with his short    sword but is awkwardly tangled with his body, a second

soldier races toward him      for the kill - Algren spins and attacks killing the second

soldier - but a third races    toward Algren, bayonet f1ashing

He dodges -- but the bayonet slices into his side --

Algren kicks the soldier away -- tries to use his sword but the soldier springs

back ath1etically .. Ujio appears like a black spectral figure to deliver the

coup de grace.

All SOUND gradually fades and is replaced by the elegaic sound of a bamboo

flute... the images of combat become fragmented and impressionistic.

Bur no matter how bravel y the samurai fight, they are simply outnumbered...

Nakao is like a cornered bear, arcing his two swords wildly around him. He

is shot in the chest, and staggers a moment before continuing. Another

soldier shoots him in the arm at point blank range. Nakao', sword goes fl ying,

so the giant Samurai leaps forward and picks up the shooter bodily, twirling

him around like a wrestler, throwing him finally onto the upraised pike of a

fellow Imperial soldier. But now three more soldiers have levelled their

weapons, and a ruthless volley staggers him again. Shots rain on him as he

tries to continue fighting, but his strength leaves him. Finally, with one last

lunge, he manages to pull an Imperial soldier with him, crushing him as he falls.

More and more fall as Algren, Katsumoto, and their comrades fight desperately...

The mournful flute is the appropriate accompaniment as Ujio is mortally

wounded. The grim award master is cut through with bullets. Still he fights.

An Imperial soldier holds up a rifle to protect himself, and Ujio's blade cuts

through the barrel. The soldier just has time to look at the gun in amazement

before a second sweep of Uji o's sword beheads him. But there are too many

to take the man's place, and finally fi ve men run Uji o through with bayonets,

and he is pinned against the barricade, still upright in death.

At last, what is left of this second wave of the Imperial Army, retreats.

EXT.             PLAIN                            ALMOST SUNSET

The plain before the barricade is littered with Imperial Army dead.

Algren and Katsumoto sit exhausted, leaning against the barricade. They are

both wounded.

Only about. hundred samurai are still alive.

Algren looks over the decimated warriors for a moment. Even those still

alive are in bad shape as they wait for the next wave of Imperial soldiers.

Katsumoto is looking at Ujio's body nearby.

Algren looks at him.

He slowl y pulls himself up. He and Katsumoto gaze at the plain before them.

At the infantry troops massing on the opposing hilltop.

Algren looks at Katsumoto. He reaches into the pocket of his old uniform

and takes out the Medal of Honor he received, long ago, at Sutter's Hill.

He affixes it to his old cavalry tunic.

Katsumoto looks at Algren. They are both thinking the same thing.

Silent agreement.

EXT.                    PLAIN                                  SUNSET

The hundred mounted samurai are a beautiful sight.

They wait in formation in front of the barricade, the long plain through the

funnel to the opposing hilltop before them.

Katsumoto draws his long samurai sword.

Algren draws his.

And they slowl y begin to trot forward...

And then to canter...

BEHIND THE IMPERIAL ARMY

Colonel Bagley and Omura watch, transfixed. There is something

approaching admiration on Omura's face. On Bagley's, there is only malice.

EXT.                     PLAIN                             SUNSET

Katsumoto points his sword and screams out his war cry. .

And they charge. It is suicidal

It is glorious.

It is the end of the samurai.

They charge forward, their war cries echoing in the canyon.

The Imperial troops fire rifles -- samurai fall .. but still they come: -- pounding

over the earth like something from an ancient dream

Algren and Katsumoto charge side by side. Alive. Warriors.

BEHIND THE IMPERIAL ARMY

Bagley and Omura watch as the samurai fall, one by one.

WITH THE CHARGE

Fifteen or twenty of the samurai -- including Algren and Katsumoto--

somehow manage to fight their way through the lines.

They break into the open.

And continue riding straight toward the rear.

ALGREN AND KATSUMOTO

Are both wounded, yet still they charge. They have only one thought in

mind -- death to their enemies. They gallop forward toward Bagley and Omura.

BAGLEY

Looks around in abject terror. He screams out an order.

TWO WAGONS

Are moving into position. Their rear gates fall open ... revealing the GATILING GUNS.

ALGREN AND KATSUMOTO

Are near enough to see them. Yet they will not be deterred.

They charge on.

Up ahead.

THE GATLING GUNS

Are not yet ready to fire. Japanese soldiers slam ammo belts into the chambers.

ALGREN, KATSUMOTO AND THE REMAINING SAMURAI

Have almost reached their goal.

BAGLEY

Cowers in fear, looks around, but there is nowhere to hide.

THE SAMURAI CHARGE

Even while riding at I full gallop, they have fixed arrows into their long

bows. They let loose a lethal volley.

BAGLEY

But before the guns can open up, he is IMPALED BY ARROW AFTER

ARROW, a human pincushion. The final arrow pierces his forehead.

Then...

The Gatling Guns finally fire. Ripping into the samurai-

Destroying them-

One after another is hit -- and still they come -- their voices raised in glorious cries of triumph-

Graham watches from a hilltop, tears in his eyes.

Katsumoto is hit, blood explodes .- his horse falls -- he spi1ls off--

Then Algren is hit -- he falls--

Algren drags himself to Katsumoto, bullets exploding ever ywhere

Algren looks up to see...

The remaining samurai still charging-

And still the Gatling Guns tear through them--

And still they charge

Until they are all down.

EXT.             OPPOSING HILLTOP                           SUNSET

A Japanese Officer shouts out an order -- the Gatling Guns stop.

Omura screams at him to continue firing!

The Japanese officer barks out response. Refusing.

Omura sees all the samurai are dead or dying.

But he also sees Algren kneeling by Katsumoto, dragging him awa y. He

screams at the Japanese officer to resume fire!

The Japanese officer refuses.

He just looks over the plain of dying samurai for a moment. Then he does

the most remarkable thing.

He slowl y kneels and touches his head to the dirt.

Then a soldier near him does the same thing. Then another and another.

And then by the thousands.

They kneel and touch their heads to the dirt.

Honoring the last samurai.

EXT.                PLAIN                    SUNSET

A1gren drags the dying Katsumoto to a8 copse of cherry trees nearby...

EXT.                           CHERRY TREES                                SUNSET

Both men are bleeding profusel y.

Algren helps him to stand. Without Algren's support, he would fall.

Algren looks at him, deeply moved. Katsumoto manages to pull out his short sword.

Algren supports Katsumoto as he holds the sword's point firmly to his stomach.

Katsumoto embraces Algren firmly -- the sma1l sword impales him

Algren holds him tightly. Katsumoto is looking over Algren's shoulder as he dies.

Katsumoto sees something. A look of joy and absolute peace comes to his features.

His eyes cl ose. He is dead.

Algren gently kneels with Katsumoto's body

He holds him for a moment and then turns to see what Katsumoto was looking at.

Cherry blossoms.

A display of perfect beauty.

We slowl y fade to...

INT.               IMPERIAL PALACE -- THRONE                            ROOM DAY

Ambassador Swanbeck, Omura, and a retinue of advisors are presenting the

treaty documents for the Emperor's signature. The Emperor sits restively

on his throne.

A servant comes and whispers into the Emperor's ear.

The Emperor ignores Omura, and gestures that the doors to the chamber be opened.

Algren enters with Graham. Algren carries something wrapped in a blanket.

He approaches the Emperor. Kneels and sets the bundle at the Emperor's feet.

Algren remains kneeling with his head bowed. He unwraps the bundle.

It is Katsumoto's long samurai sword.

'The Emperor looks at it.

The Emperor continues to look at the sword. He does not look up.

The Emperor rises from his chair and sits on the floor, in the traditional

Japanese fashion, before the sword.

The Emperor interrupts him, speaking in English -- to ever yone's surprise.

The Emperor looks up at the gathered dignitaries.

Ambassador Swanbeck is stunned.

The Emperor gestures. A servant escorts Swanbeck to the exit. Omura takes a step

closer to the Emperor.

Omura is confused.

Omura looks at him, stunned.

The Emperor finally looks up from the sword.

Omura looks at him for a moment. Then bows tersely and goes.

The Emperor looks at Algren, still kneeling before him.

Algren looks At the Emperor.

We slowl y fade as Algren begins to speak...

EXT.                     VILLAGE                   DAY

Spring. A few years later.

There are no samurai training in the square, but otherwise the village is

bustling with life. We HEAR Graham's voice:

INT.                  LECTURE HALL (ENGLAND)                           DAY

Graham stands at a lectern on a book tour. A well-dressed audience listens

attentivel y. A banner proclaims, "The Last Samurai," by Simon Graham.

EXT.                               VILLAGE                             DAY

We see that Yoritomo's house has finally been completed.. Toshiie sits on the porch,

Instructing a group of younger children in calligraphy.

Taka steps from the house and passes Toshiie, she carries a basket. We

move through the village with her...

She passes an old man teaching the Noh drama to a group of teenagers.

She passes Higen, working on a new building. Apparently he has found a

good life as a carpenter. He seems content.

We go with Taka as she leaves the village...

EXT.                     CHERRY TREES                                DAY

Taka moves through the cherry orchard.

Taka stops. Watching. We follow her gaze to discover:

Algren, sitting alone. Gazing peacefully sat the cherry bl ossoms.

Waiting for the perfect one. He turns to her, a smile of quiet joy spreads

across his face.

Fade out.

