FADE IN

The screen is a microcosm of leaf, crystal drops of precipitation, a stone,

emerald green moss. It's a landscape in miniature. We HEAR the forest. Some

distant birds. Their sound seems to reverberate as if in a cavern. A piece of

sunlight refracts within the drops of water, paints a patch of moss yellow. The

whisper of wind is joined by another sound that mixes with it. A distant

rustling. It gets closer and louder. It's shallow breathing. It gets ominous.

We're interlopers on the floor of the forest and something is coming.

SUDDENLY: A MOCCASINED FOOT

rockets through the frame scaring us and ...

EXTREMELY CLOSE: PART OF AN INDIAN FACE

running hard. His head shaved bald except for a scalp-lock. Tattoos. He's

twenty-five. He seems tall and muscled. Heavy, even breathing. We'll learn later

this man is UNCAS, the last of the Mohicans.

PROFILE: UNCAS' ARMS

flash as he runs. One carries a flintlock musket. Sweat on the man's skin. A

calico shirt is gathered at the waist with a wampum belt of small white beads

over a breechcloth. He wears leggings to protect his legs. A long-handled

tomahawk is stuffed in his belt.

CUT TO ...

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - MASSIVE WAR CLUB - DAY

in the hand of another running man. He's heavier, older ...

CHEST

A green bear claw is tattooed there. Silver armband. A snake is tattooed over

his left eyebrow. Silver rings in his ear. He's forty to forty-five. His head is

shaved into a scalp-lock. It says: "Come and lift this from me. Take it, if you

can ..." That prospect strikes us as extremely unlikely. This man is

CHINGACHGOOK.

The French call him "Le Gros Serpent," the Great Snake, because

"he knows the winding ways of men's nature and he can strike a sudden, deathly

blow."

WIDE ANGLE: CHINGACHGOOK

runs, disturbing no leaves, no branches; making no sound. He's running parallel

to Uncas through the cathedral of mature forest. It's heavily canopied. There's

very little brush. The girth of the trees is huge. Shafts of light illuminate

motes of dust and turn leaves emerald where the sun breaks through. Sometimes

there's ferns; rhododendron, sometimes pale grass and outcroppings of rock.

These men run the forest streams, over boulders, fallen trees and down into

ravines as if they own them. They do.

CUT TO ...

ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - LONG BLACK HAIR - DAY

rocketing through trees. His torn buckskin shirt is tied at the waist with a

wampum belt holding a tomahawk and a large knife. A long rifle in which is

carved the name "Killdeer" is in his right fist. Indian tattooing on his chest.

His name is NATHANIEL POE. He's a few years older than Uncas. The French and 	the French-speaking tribes know him as La Longue Carabine (Long Rifle). Other

frontiersmen in New York colony and the Iroquois and Delaware-speaking tribes

know him as Hawkeye. Sweat stains his shirt. He flashes through the tree

branches disturbing nothing. Making no sound.

HAWKEYE'S POV: A PIECE OF TAN

two hundred and fifty yards away, a few square inches buried in the foliage ...

SUDDENLY HE STOPS

Killdeer's at his shoulder ...

HAWKEYE'S THUMB

cocks the lock holding the piece of flint: click.

UNCAS

stops dead, holding out his hand ... no sound.

CHINGACHGOOK

slips through young trees and stops, shouldering his smoothbore musket. Is this

an ambush?

HAWKEYE'S POV: RACK FOCUS THROUGH THE GUN SIGHT

Five feet and fourteen pounds of rifle is elevated a half inch and shifted left,

off target. It's a precise, smooth movement. No human quiver.

KILLDEER'S TRIGGER

tighter ...

THE COCK

holding the flint hits the iron file of the frizzen, shooting sparks into the

pan of priming powder which flashes and ...

TAN

is a huge elk that leaps at the sound.

KILLDEER'S MUZZLE

CRACKS like lightning.

AN ELK

leaps where the .59 caliber round was programmed to intercept him. On the moment

of impact ...

WIDE

three men approach the fallen elk and each other. We realize they're hunting

together. Hawkeye steps aside for Chingachgook. His massive war club is flat and

angles to one side with a stabbing blade. Hawkeye is stepson and stepbrother.

The two younger men treat Chingachgook with an easy deference and affection.

Hawkeye's a dialectic of two cultures. In his coloration and worldliness he's

more the Anglo-Saxon frontiersman. In his independent views and candid manner

and in his combat skills and woodsmanship, he's more native American (Mohican).

As Chingachgook takes out his long knife and they approach the fallen elk ...]

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR - INTERIOR CAMERON CABIN - JOHN CAMERON - NIGHT

roasts potatoes on a stick in the stone fireplace next to CAPTAIN JACK WINTHROP,

an American in very worn quasi-military gear. On a rough table in the tiny cabin

ALEXANDRIA, his wife, is kneading bread. Three children climb on their father.

He grabs their wild seven year old son, JAMES, who shrieks laughter and dodges

away. The cabin has two primitive rooms, waxed paper windows, log walls. O.S. a

dog barks. Others pick it up. Cameron & Jack are suddenly alert, reaching for

weapons ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR CAMERON CABIN, DOORWAY - CAMERON - NIGHT

appears warily, musket in hand.

FENCE: CHINGACHGOOK

Doorway: Cameron towards the interior ...

Behind him, emerging from the dark trees are Hawkeye, Uncas, cradling flint

locks, blankets and packs over their shoulders, leading a mule laden with skins

and the elk carcass. Crossing the splitrail fence ...

JAMES CAMERON

tears past his father & runs full bore. Just before he's going to collide into

Uncas, he leaps into the air and Uncas snatches him with one hand and swings him

up onto his shoulders. The kid screams with delight and rides back towards the

cabin that way. Alexandria comes to the door.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR CABIN - CHINGACHGOOK - EVENING (LATER)

lights & smokes a clay pipe. The scene says: this is a rustic, frontier home and

these people have known each other & live in dangerous circumstances.

Pause, then ...

Alexandria laughs. So do Hawkeye & Chingachgook.

Uncas grabs James & suspends him upside down.

Hawkeye grabs the kid from Uncas. The kid's laughing & can't stay still.

Chingachgook watches, content, smoking his clay pipe.

She ruffles his hair and lifts the heavy iron pot off the tibbet. Uncas goes to

help her, she shrugs his hand away and carries it to the table herself. The men

gather around. There's pan-baked bread, a dish of salt, and the pot has venison

and yellow cornmeal in a kind of stew. Everyone waits.

As they start to eat ...

CUT TO ...

CAMERON'S CABIN - (DAY)

EXTERIOR CAMERON CABIN - MOHAWK BOY & JAMES CAMERON - MORNING

slam into other kids as they battle through a Lacrosse game. In the background are

sixty men, women and children. It's a community gathering held out of doors.

We've entered mid-scene. Captain Jack is standing on a box. Some women and kids

mill around some tables and boards laid over barrels. Cooking fires. Smoke.

Most but not all around Captain Jack are men, nine settlers, 3 hunter/trappers,

eight Mohawk farmers in mixed European and native clothing. Off to the side are

an English Lieutenant on horseback and a ten-man escort from whatever regiment's in

Albany. A man named HENRI speaks in French. His son, MARTIN, translates.

Meanwhile ...

ONGEWASGONE

is an unusually large Mohawk in a blue match coat with a little girl holding his hand. He

says something to Chingachgook who nods. Hawkeye and Uncas are a little apart in an

outer grouping of the men. Ongewasgone is a war chief and wears a white plume and is

tattooed. As Martin finishes, he steps forward.

These people are English, Scots-Irish and Dutch farmers; some French Huguenot

"mechanics" (craftsmen). They're in shirt-sleeves and Indian moccasins & leggings. The

Mohawks' vast lands and corn agriculture border the settlement. They 've been

acculturated for over a hundred years. Some wear European calico hunting shirts.

Their heads are shaved to scalping locks and many are tattooed. They've politically and

commercially played France & England against each other very adroitly for over a

hundred years because of their military power and geographic position. Their relations

with working farmers and settlers and their families has been mostly one of

co-existence because there's always been more than enough for all. This is a WPA

indentured laborers, farmers exiled by economics or religious persecution, frontier

hunters and trappers ... working people.

The importance of this commitment is apparent to the lieutenant.

Some don't like this.

Heads turn to Hawkeye at the periphery of the crowd.

Light laughter.

HAWKEYE & UNCAS

cross through the people. A few men drift off to their women at the tables.

It is apparent two-thirds of the men will join. A couple of jokes, light banter,

no hostility.

As they cross through they start removing their shirts and weapons.

They approach the Lacrosse field. Chingachgook stands with Cameron in the

background, watching.

LACROSSE FIELD

Uncas joins James. Hawkeye goes on the other side. A couple of young Mohawks and

a young blonde farmer shout hallo's and as the bodies crash into each other ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR BRITISH ENCAMPMENT, PARADE GROUND - SIX HUNDRED

62nd REGIMENT OF FOOT - DAY

in two rows. At each command the crack troops respond en masse. Their hands slap

the stocks of their brown bess muskets in unison. These men are drilling in preparation

for war.

We witness a state-of-the-art, 18th century, precision killing machine.

Like a single shot, two hundred fifty black powder muskets fire .65 caliber lead shot at

chest height in a scythe of death.

The Dutch roof lines of Albany are in the distance. Nearer, a coach races past.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR ROAD - HORSES GALLOP - DAY

Six horses, wide with dumb, mute strain. Foam, manes fly, their hooves pound the

yellow road into dust. Military outriders are on the three left side horses.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR COACH - MAJOR DUNCAN HEYWARD - DAY

sits erectly in the brilliant scarlet coat of the First Royal Regiment of Foot with gold

braid, blue-black facing and blue-black breeches, cavalry boots, spurs, a tricorn, white

wig (?) and a gorget (large medallion) around his neck. He's 28-30 and tough. He is

self-sure, principled reactionary. He believes human society is static & layered into

hierarchies of class and they are absolutely impermeable. He opens a simple gold-

clasped case & contemplates its contents ...

HEYWARD'S POV: CASE

an enameled portrait of a dark-haired young woman.

HEYWARD

as a soldier is militarily first-rate in his milieu: the open battlefields of Europe.

Right now, however, he is about to enter the forests of North America. He closes

his clasp and glances out the window as we enter Albany and as a facade of

buildings & people pass.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR BRITISH HQ, ASSEMBLY ROOM - DOOR - DAY

Four Grenadiers come to attention as Heyward enters mid-scene.

GENERAL JEROME WEBB sees Heyward and nods. Three of Webb's Adjutants are

on either side. Three remaining Grenadiers in bearskin-covered mitred caps are at the

door. Facing Webb are a half dozen colonial representatives, including Captain Jack

Winthrop. Heyward watches Jack ...

Heyward, preparing to hand over dispatches, is interrupted by the insubordinate tone.

Equally wound tightly is the Lieutenant.

Heyward's more amazed by what he's just heard from Webb. These Americans,

including Jack, are streaming past him on their way out.

Webb's pouring gin.

The door closes. Dispatches are passed. They are now alone except for the General's

two Adjutants and a shadowy form waiting patiently in a corner. He's MAGUA. In the

dim light, he's motionless. Webb slides a glass across to Heyward.

A chill. Majors don't upbraid Generals.

MAGUA

rises and slowly walks into the light. He is reserved and over six feet tall. His head is

shaved into a mohawk. Rings, beads & feathers pierce his ears. A blanket is worn as a

shawl over his left shoulder exposing his right arm and heavy tattooing. A long

tomahawk is in the belt of his breechcloth.

Webb holds Heyward a moment

Webb's Adjutants laugh uproariously at his wit. Heyward's stiff, perfunctory smile. He's

been made the butt of the joke. He does not share Webb's derisive view of the French.

Webb doesn't like Heyward's manner. We don't like Webb. Then:

Heyward stiffly salutes. Webb casually, perfunctorily salutes the younger man in

return.

Beneath Magua's barely deferential manner we sense intelligence & menace. None of 	these Brits see it. We do.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR POLTROON'S HOUSE - DUNCAN HEYWARD - DAY

brushed clean, his wig freshly powdered, his tricorn in his hand with a crimson sash and

sword and his cavalry boots, walks through the gate after knocking. He enters a small

courtyard. Suddenly he hears ...

Heyward looks to the side. An inner light turns on. In this mode, this is a man we could

like.

REVERSE: CORA MUNRO

enters from the garden. She's vivacious, dark-haired, unconventional in that she's

educated, but with conventional values and attitudes. She hugs Duncan to her and

then pushes him away to look at him.

He takes her hand in both of his and kisses it. He is open and lit up.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR POLTROON'S HOUSE, BACK YARD - CORA & HEYWARD - DAY

A vegetable plot behind the Poltroon's house is a provincial substitute for a formal

garden setting. Heyward and Cora sit on rough wooden chairs. Wind blows. In the

background a servant hangs laundry. The white sheets billow. A table holds a tea

setting. They're sitting close to each other, talking seriously and quietly. Duncan's

jacket is removed. Time's passed. Long pause. Then:

Cora laughs.

She looks askance at him. Then the banter drops.

Cora stares directly at Heyward. Then she looks away. She has no answer. Something

subterranean disturbs her about delegating judgment over the fate of her life.

She's still unsettled.

REVERSE: ALICE MUNRO

eighteen years old, white-blonde hair, wide blue eyes. She's effervescent and runs

to hug him. Heyward is taken aback by her enthusiasm and laughs.

Alice takes Hewyward's hand. Cora pours Heyward more tea. The white sheets billow.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR BRITISH ARMY HQ - TWENTY BRITISH REGULARS - DAY

jolt upright as if electrified.

AMBROSE

a sergeant major of forty-one is wide and deep and built like a fullback. You do not 	mess with Sgt. Major Ambrose.

THE MEN

march in perfect drill into two groups, each three across and three deep.

MILITARY HQ, ENTRANCE - MAJOR DUNCAN HEYWARD

steps out. Rigid salutes.

HEYWARD

climbs onto his white military charger. It's spirited. Cora & Alice are in riding dresses

flush of her complexion. They're riding two sidesaddled Narragansetts. The tight

mature. All three ride to the front of the column. The baggage horses and mule are in

the gap between the two companies.

MAGUA

cradling his musket.

REAR SHOT: THE COLUMN

down the path that leads into the wall of forest looks impressive.

WIDER: THE COLUMN

marching. Now they look brave but smaller. The forest - with all its mysteries and

dangers - now impresses us as a towering dark, sinister, and it's immensity swallows up

the living mass which slowly enters its bosom.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR FOREST

TRACKING the Redcoats, their faces now filmed with dust, cut with lines of

perspiration. They march in perfect formation.

We TRACK PAST the pack horses, the first company, Sgt. Major Ambrose and on to

Cora & Alice. Alice seems fatigued. Cora's turned, looking up into the forest canopy,

astonished at the deep beauty of the place.

CORA'S POV: FOREST CANOPY

of trees is dark, except for spots where leaves are sparse, and there the light is golden.

It's the forest of childhood.

In a ravine a buck disappears into a deeper stand of trees.

CORA'S

reverie's broken by Heyward entering the frame.

Alice rouses from fatigue.

Heyward rides to the front of the column to Magua, who's twenty to thirty yards ahead

of everybody else.

Magua slowly turns towards Heyward.

As they begin to stop ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR MOUNTAINS & FOREST - WIDE - DAY

Silently entering on either side of us come Chingachgook, followed by Hawkeye and

Uncas. Even relaxed, they carry themselves with a degree of alertness. They're

eighteenth century Viet Cong moving through the rain forest. The Maxfield

Parrish/Hudson Valley of tall trees, ravines and streams is idyllic in front of them. All

three cradle their long guns and move silently on moccasined feet.

FRONTAL: CHINGACHGOOK

- in a stream - relaxed but attentive, abruptly stops. The others freeze in their tracks.

Chingachgook sees and then stoops to examine ...

ROCK

under the water in the stream. It's been turned from its bed. Chingachgook finds

another. Uncas, moving up on his flank, climbs the bank and moves off into the trees,

searches and then he gestures ... he's found another sign of something.

CHINGACHGOOK

has headed off further down the stream and discovers nothing. Rapidly he rejoins Uncas

and Hawkeye who've become extremely alert. They move up the bank into the forest

ninety degrees from their previous path.

TRACKING: HAWKEYE, UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK

moving. Fast. Nearly soundless. They hardly disturb a blade of grass. The impression:

expertise, deadliness and an impression something's wrong.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST, TRAIL - MAGUA - DAY

on point. The trail cuts the side of a hill. The ground on one side rises into a forest

acclivity and on the other falls off into a forested ravine. Magua walking towards

camera.

CLOSER - MAGUA'S

slid his tomahawk out from the front of his belt that girdles his waist. He lets the shaft

drop into his hand. He shrugs off his blanket. There is a solidity to his dark, tall figure

we didn't see before. Magua turns about face and advances on the column.

TRACK WITH Magua.

Heyward and the Munro girls pass the camera as does Sgt. Major Ambrose, marching

in advance of the men. Magua is approaching the soldier on the left in the first row.

We see Magua has caught the Redcoat's eye.

REDCOAT

is curious, starts to smile. What does the Huron want to say to him? When Magua is

two steps away he caves in the side of the infantryman's head at the temple with the

spike end of his tomahawk and, backhanded, hacks the blade through the side of the

neck of the center man in the first row.

SIMULTANEOUSLY

thirteen muskets EXPLODE from the wooded rise.

FIVE REDCOATS

are blown off the path, two others are wounded ...

AMBROSE

ALICE

shrieks. Cora grabs Alice's reins and her own.

HEYWARD

pulling his fusil (short musket), seeing, firing, reaching for the women ...

CORA'S HORSE

bucking.

ALICE'S HORSE

bolting, dodging sideways, spilling Alice to the earth.

AMBROSE

The regulars slam into a firing line, stepping over the bodies of their comrades. All

thirteen face the incline.

FORESTED RISE - HURONS

flash downhill through the trees. Partnered in two-man teams, one loads and prepares

and fires while the other advances to the next cover. He, then, prepares and fires

covering his partner's advance. Leaping fallen trees and boulders, they're athletic, fast

and rapidly closing.

Even though the disciplined English regulars are a killing machine, we now see their

tactics in the dense forest are grossly inferior to the Hurons' ...

CORA

covers Alice with her body, holding the reins of their bolting horses.

HEYWARD

from horseback aims his horse pistol, FIRES ...

AN ATTACKING HURON

leaping at him past Alice & Cora drops.

MULE

with baggage crashes off, down the ravine. Another two Redcoats drop. Nine left.

Then eight.

AMBROSE

A musket volley as eight muskets go off as one shot, sending a lead scythe through

leaves. But ...

REVERSE:

Hurons were behind cover. Only one was exposed and hit.

The English rush to complete the reload. Will they do it in time?

Suddenly, Hurons - en masse - CRASH down onto the Redcoats line with tomahawks,

war clubs and point-blank musket fire.

ALICE

on the ground, screaming insanely, covered by Cora who's protecting her little sister,

and ...

HEYWARD'S

horse shot from beneath him, the animal folding, falling straight to the earth, and ...

MAGUA

shoots Ambrose in the chest, and ...

by the Munro daughters spins, swinging his fusil like a ball-bat, upending one Huron

and lunges with his bayonet in his left towards another. But this Huron easily slips the

thrust and slams Heyward with his rifle butt.

BRITISH

dead and dying.

AMBROSE

blood gushing from his chest wound, fires his pistol, dropping a Huron; slashes a

second with his sword. Then he's chopped down. Hurons begin scalping the British

while four race towards Heyward and the two women.

HEYWARD & CORA & ALICE

ready to die. Heyward has only his fusil as a bludgeon. He readies ...

THREE LOUD SHOTS

BLOW three of the Hurons sideways, head over heels down the rise.

REVERSE: THREE MEN

barely seen, running diagonally across the fall line of the ravine. In parts, we recognize

Nathaniel, recharging Killdeer on full run, and Uncas.

HURON'S

not sure where the shots came from. Suddenly Chingachgook slams him, head first into

the ravine with the war club. He didn't even slow down.

HURON

warrior spins. Uncas tomahawks his shoulder. The Huron swings downwards. Uncas

ducks beneath the swing and slashes his throat, sending him downhill into CAMERA

as ...

HAWKEYE'S

momentum and thrown tomahawk spread-eagles one Huron, near a couple of wounded

Redcoats who fight on ...

MAGUA

calmly sees the odds have changed. His attention becomes focused. He commits a very

revealing act seen through the blurred foreground action of struggling bodies. We will

remember it. He raises his musket and aims at ...

CORA MUNRO

who's unaware she's a target. Why is he singling out a Munro girl to kill?

HAWKEYE

sees. Killdeer's at his shoulder ...

TIME SLOWS: MAGUA

senses Hawkeye. Moving through liquid, his eyes drift left. The moment is frozen.

TIME UNFREEZES

Magua swings at Hawkeye and FIRES ...

HAWKEYE

shifts. The .65 caliber musket ball rockets past his ear and he's already squeezing

Killdeer's trigger as ...

HAWKEYE'S POV OVER BARREL: SMOKE

from Magua's musket blast clears. Magua's gone. He almost shape-shifted, it happened

so quickly. It's nearly mystical.

HAWKEYE

lowers Killdeer, impressed.

CORA

glances back at Hawkeye. She doesn't know why he's looking at her.

CHINGACHGOOK

pursues two fleeing Hurons up the incline. Two strides gain him the first man, who he

hamstrings and runs over to pursue the second up the hill ... as ...

HEYWARD

in the confused melee, grabs a found musket and aims it at an Indian. We recognize that

he's aiming at Chingachgook pursuing the second Huron up the hill ...

Duncan ignores her.

HEYWARD'S MUSKET

is jerked from his hands.

He's drawn his sword, reflexively. Hawkeye flips the musket around one-handed. It's

pointed at Heyward's chest. And Hawkeye FIRES, killing an attacking Huron behind

Heyward. As Heyward spins ...

CHINGACHGOOK'S WAR CLUB

flashes up the hill. It cleaves the second man's back and bowls him over. Chingachgook

retrieves his club as his scalping knife slashes down ...

UNCAS

scalps the man he killed. Chingachgook dispatches the Huron he hamstrung.

WIDE

Sudden silence. Heyward's motionless. The women are frozen, as terrified of the

savages and apparent half-breed rescuers as they were of those who attacked them.

ALICE

Cora, holding her, is stunned but functioning. Moments ago both women were clean

and demure. Now their riding dresses are torn, mud-stained, blood-spattered and their

baggage is gone.

HEYWARD'S

crossed to his slaughtered soldiers. Moments ago they were a testament to British

military power. Now they're dead meat. Ambrose's body is against a tree. In the B.G. 	two of the wounded start to rise ...

Heyward spins.

just cut the throat of the second Narraganset. It drops into the brush. Alice attacks

him.

Uncas gently restrains her. Cora reaches Alice and grabs her away from the "savage".

Heyward runs in to protect the women ...

Uncas, all business, is now reloading, lifting powder horns, scanning the trees.

Cora's surprised by Uncas' easy English. Hawkeye's scanning the forest.

CHINGACHGOOK

to Hawkeye: let's go ... Then a fast exchange of Delaware. Cora's surprised to see it's

Chingachgook's decision. Chingachgook looks at the survivors, gives his assent, starts

off.

Hawkeye throws Heyward a musket. Cora & Alice look towards Heyward. He looks at

them: the women are totally terrified and do not move.

Heyward quickly decides to go. The women follow. Hawkeye starts off after Uncas and

Chingachgook.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - HAWKEYE - DAY

moves through the trackless forest. Uncas is far out on the left flank. Cora, Alice &

Duncan Heyward follow in Hawkeye's and Chingachgook's steps ...

HAWKEYE'S FEET

walking through a creek, stepping in the stream bed instead of on stones. The others

follow. Hawkeye looks at Heyward.

HEYWARD

conforms. He's ill at ease not being in command, following the lead of some half-Indian

frontiersman through a foreign wilderness.]

Off to the side, Uncas smiles at the idea.

CORA'S

appalled.

Cora's hand holds back Heyward's sword arm because suddenly Chingachgook looms

over him.

Heyward spins. Hawkeye coolly watches Cora. Her attitude is hostile; aligned with

Heyward. He turns away. Meanwhile ...

UNCAS

stops, alarmed. Something in the air bothers him. Hawkeye smells it, too.

CHINGACHGOOK

is already moving out front, low and fast ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST, TREE LINE - GREEN BRANCHES - DAY

After we HOLD, we realize Chingachgook's been there all along. Hawkeye and Uncas

join him where the branches meet the ground. Smoke drifts through the trees.

Hawkeye sees and dips his head, then looks again ...

EXTERIOR CAMERON CABIN - WIDE - DAY

Burned, smoldering, having fallen in on itself. TRACK LEFT past what was the

doorway. A dead child's hand protruding from the ruin. A fragment of a dress. Charred

and smoldering wood. John Cameron's body in the wreckage. And then, through the

collapsed posts and timbers, Hawkeye, Chingachgook and Uncas have advanced and

are seeing what we've just seen; and then Cora and Alice.

ALICE

approaches and is frozen in horror. Cora shields her from the sight. Cora is affected but

confronts it directly.

UNCAS

returns from under one part of the wreckage, ashen, stoic, as they all are. We know the

degree of their inner pain.

HAWKEYE

bends over a moccasin print that Chingachgook's examining. They look at each other

grimly. Heyward joins them.

UNCAS

enters, very careful where he places his feet ... Hawkeye gestures to Heyward to stay

where he is: on the periphery with the women.

Chingachgook nods confirmation and indicates a direction in Mohican. The significance

is very ominous to them. We don't know why yet. Chingachgook starts away ...

He starts approaching the bodies.

Heyward stops. Hawkeye and Uncas follow Chingachgook, leaving the cabin.

Hawkeye turns back and rapidly approaches her. She takes a step back, fearful.

CORA

realizes Hawkeye knew these people and is deeply affected. She also realizes for the

first time this is a whole new world with dynamics and complexities, behavior and

rhythms she doesn't understand. He turns away from her and walks on. She hesitates a

moment.

WIDE ON THE SMALL CLEARING IN FRONT OF THE FARMHOUSE

as Chingachgook and Hawkeye, extremely alert and cradling their cocked flintlocks,

walk to camera, eyes sweeping the forest perimeter; they're followed by Cora, Heyward

helping Alice and Uncas as rearguard.

The ruined cabin and the dead dream of a family smolders behind them.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR GLADE - PROFILE: HAWKEYE - NIGHT

moves through to where the trees seem sparse and are unnaturally white birch and

some thin grass grows. The land rises into a mound. Chingachgook and the others

avoid stepping on the grass and cross to the other side of it.

CHINGACHGOOK

mutters something to Uncas. He nods and disappears amongst the white birch,

soundlessly.

HAWKEYE

throws Heyward a blanket. Heyward spreads the blanket below the top of the mound

and - maintaining silence - he gestures for Cora & Alice to rest there.

ALICE'S HEAD

hits the blanket. She curls into a fetal position and she's out. Heyward is nearby on

watch.

Hawkeye has taken a position two-thirds of the way around the crescent shaped

mound.

Cora has sought him out.

HAWKEYE

doesn't react as Cora enters. He's scanning the trees; not looking at her.

They whisper ...

Hawkeye looks at her and nods.

Cora's indignation is cut off because ...

UNCAS

moving fast. He gestures back the way he came and it means they're in jeopardy. Uncas

disappears around the mound.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR BIRCH FOREST - TREES - NIGHT

Nothing. Imperceptibly we move closer and start to see shapes blocking out part of the

white birch.

RED-PAINTED FACE

white eyes. A ruff of red hair stands straight up at the back of the large man's head.

Slit and monstrously elongated earlobes are weighted with silver. He's followed by

others. Wary, silently, they hunt.

DEEPER: MORE OTTAWA

Towards the rear are two French Rangers ("Coureurs des Bois") from Le Regiment de

la Sarre. They're bearded, dirty, dressed Indian-style in moccasins, leggings and

breechcloths with hooded hunting shirts. There's nothing clumsy about them. They're

the 18th century version of Special Forces who've gone indigenous. If they and the

Ottawa find our people, it's all over.

ALICE

seeing the red-painted Ottawa approach, starts to panic. Her hyperventilating and

involuntary small sounds of fear will reveal their position. A hand covers her mouth and

silences her struggling. WIDEN. It's Uncas. His other arm is around her, holding her,

looking towards the advancing Ottawa.

HAWKEYE

on his back, his tomahawk within reach on the ground.

OTTAWA & FRENCH

are fifty yards away from the crescent mound behind which lie our people. Mist

envelops them ...

CHINGACHGOOK

His massive arms spread revealing his war club in his left fist; his fusil in his right hand.

HAWKEYE

waiting for the attack. Cora's eyes are anxious, but there's no terror there. Nathaniel's

impressed with her cool. He hands her a pistol. She takes it. He listens for the soft drop

of moccasined feet ...

OTTAWA

through the grass. Thirty feet away they stop. They're motionless. Then their leader

gestures and they start backing out. The French Rangers continue towards the crescent.

The Ottawa chief takes one's arm and stops him. The French Ranger whispers

something inaudible. The Ottawa chief shakes his head, "Non. Pas possible ..."

And means it. They retreat.

SEPERATE SHOTS: HAWKEYE, UNCAS, CHINGACHGOOK, CORA

tensely monitor the Ottawa retreat.

UNCAS & ALICE

He slowly removes his hand from her mouth. She's a little shy, then she looks up,

catches his eyes. Then she averts her face.

CHINGACHGOOK

sees all of it; doesn't like it.

HAWKEYE

The Ottawa are gone.

In answer Hawkeye looks behind & above her head.

CORA

turns and makes out stilt platforms of skeletons and torn strips of buckskin silhouetted

against the night sky in the distance. They have camped on sanctified ground, a burial

place.

CORA & HAWKEYE

She thinks it would be a mistake to ever underestimate the skill of these men or the

danger & complexity of this place. She hands the pistol back to him. Their hands almost

touch.

Cora is angry. Hawkeye, staring at the trees, glances at her. She settles, looking at him.

Her mood changes. Then ...

Hawkeye's surprised by her question.

Cora sees the slate grey clouds and, in between, the fields of stars. She looks at 	Hawkeye; then again up at the night sky.

CORA'S

pensive. Hawkeye's watching her. Her reaction is enigmatic. After a pause ...

She closes her eyes, turns slightly and prepares to sleep. Hawkeye is the one left staring

into the birch forest, a little surprised. Some of his assumptions about her were

wrong ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - WIDE - LATE AFTERNOON

Deep fog has set in. A hand entering the frame scares the hell out of us. It moves a

branch aside. It's Uncas. Spread to the right is Chingachgook, far to the left is

Hawkeye. They hike up a steep forested slope in the heart of the Adirondacks.

ALICE

Re-energized, her spirits pick up.

Before Cora can answer they hear a deep, rolling roar. Alice is alarmed.

UNCAS

looks over his shoulder, sees something in the far distance, gestures to Hawkeye and

Chingachgook.

HAWKEYE'S POV: DISTANT HILLS

and the band of red-painted Ottawa and Coureurs des Bois, who have now split into

two groups, are still on their trail. Meanwhile, oblivious ...

Heyward laughs. Hawkeye sees them. It bothers us: will these Europeans, including

Cora, shed their frontier experience?

He and Alice laugh. Cora does not.

Heyward looks at her. She's not kidding.

ANOTHER ANGLE: HEYWARD

helps Alice. As he does, he stares at Cora's seperation and now her proximity to

Hawkeye, who's walking on ahead, is something Heyward doesn't like. His dark

thoughts are distracted by a FLASH of light and more ROLLING THUNDER.

WIDE FROM THE FRONT - HAWKEYE

drops and pulls Cora to the ground.

Hawkeye doesn't answer as he, Chingachgook, Uncas and Heyward make their way to

the top of the ridge.

CLOSER ANGLES: CORA & ALICE

join them and look down upon their expectation of a secure piece of England in the

wilderness, a safe harbor, a father's warm welcome.

THEIR POV: FORT WILLIAM HENRY

is none of those things. The thunder is the roar of French siege cannon clouded in dense

smoke. The flashes of light are mortar bombs exploding and illumination rockets' red

glare. Fort William Henry is under a massive siege by a French and Huron army.

UNCAS

looks over his shoulder.

HIS POV: OTTAWA

pursuing them. There's no way back. They're propelled forward.

DISSOLVE TO ...

EXTERIOR BATTLEFIELD, FRENCH BATTERY #1 - CLOSE SHOTS - DUSK

French cannons roar black smoke and gouts of red flame.

TRENCH

dug by sappeurs behind the cover of a huge gambio pushed toward the fort by two

poles and fascis on the sides.

ENGLISH GUN CREW

searching the night.

POV: BATTLEFIELD

is black.

ENGLISH ROCKETS

light the battlefield revealing the French trenches.

ENGLISH GUN CREW

excited. Colonial militia and Mohawk snipers fire their rifles. The British gun crew

scrambles to adjust their 18 pounders.

FRENCH BATTERY #1

FIRES.

FRENCH BATTERY #2

FIRES.

EXTERIOR FORT, WEST BATTERY

TRACKING. French cannon FIRE rips into the fortifications, exploding wood and

earth, shredding the English gun crew with cannister. The English fight stubbornly, but

we feel they're outgunned. Meanwhile ...

WIDE ANGLE FROM THE WATER

A new artillery duel erupts. The action is to the west side of the fort. On the north, the

fire fight is reflected on the black water of Lake George in our foreground. Then a dark

shape wiping to the right cuts off those reflections. We see in silhouette the outline of a

birch canoe moving silently, barely rippling the mirrored surface of the lake.

EXTERIOR LAKE GEORGE BANK - DEBRIS

Behind it, two Canadiens and a Huron alternately snipe at the ramparts.

LOW & WIDE: SNIPERS

Behind them is black water. Its surface is broken by the rising mass of Chingachgook,

followed by Uncas and Hawkeye. Muzzle flashes from the cannon reveal the canoe and

the forms of the girls further out. Chingachgook's war club is held low. The Huron

senses and turns and Hawkeye's thrown tomahawk knocks him back. Hawkeye's knife

flashes in the night. Chingachgook drives the war club up, smashing a Canadien onto

the debris. The second Canadien jabs bayonet at Uncas, slashing his side. Uncas jerks

him forward by the musket, folds him over and tomahawks him.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, NORTH WALL - SALLY-PORT TUNNEL

- NIGHT

Amidst the cannonade roar, ad-libbed shouts from Hawkeye and Heyward convince

battle begrimed soldiers to open the sally-port. Our people rush in.

TORCH LIGHT

the group moves through the long, dank, tunnel. Enlisted men escorting them. Another

torch from the other direction: CAPTAIN BEAMS is revealed.

Beams raises his torch, sees the muddied, soaked women. He is shocked that they

traveled with Heyward.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, PARADE GROUND - GROUP - NIGHT

emerges from a sally-port tunnel. It's smokey. NOISE is deafening. The group has

traveled through a nightmare, only to arrive in hell.

HEYWARD WITH BEAMS, CORA & HAWKEYE, ALICE, UNCAS &

CHINGACHGOOK

run diagonally past pyramidal stacks of cannon ball, smoldering beams and shrapnel,

wounded men. Just then a mortar is fired and explodes, killing the gun crew. On the

ramparts Mohawks and Colonial Militia, sniping at the French. Women huddle in

corners next to the sick and dying.

UNDER RAMPARTS: MILITIA

HAWKEYE

waves. One wounded man, IAN, intercepts Uncas.

COLONEL MUNRO

running from his quarters is shocked to see them.

Cora is stunned. Alice is decimated by her father's anger. Munro sees and whips off his

coat to cover them and takes Alice under his arm. Bombardment resumes. Alice clings

while they race for the cover of his quarters:]

They race into the yellow lantern light of Munro's quarters and slam and bolt the heavy

door. Heyward's confused ...

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR MUNRO'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Munro's stunned.

Munro has nowhere for his rage to go. Meanwhile, Alice clings to her father. At 45-55,

the British Army has been his life. He blindly believes in its institutions, though officers

like Webb would disdain his Scots origins.

From under his fury:

No answer. Then ...

MUNRO

sees his exhausted and bloodstained surgeon in the doorway that leads to the next

rooms.

PHELPS' face lights up when he sees Cora Munro.

Cora tries to remove Alice from her father, but she clings to him. Munro holds her

tighter. Then he whispers something to her. She nods her head. And Cora takes her.

They exit.

MUNRO

is moved beyond words by his daughters' presence. There's a break, a pause ...

A Sergeant enters, snaps to attention, says something to Beams, exits.

Beams nods. Munro turns back to the map. Hawkeye has something else to say.

Munro looks at him.

Munro turns to look at him for a long beat. Munro doesn't like what his response must

be to this news. He turns to Heyward and the map.

Hawkeye's dismissed, frozen out.

Hawkeye is furious. Chingachgook gestures Hawkeye out. He leaves Munro's quarters

almost knocking over an entering Adjutant who backs way up to let Chingachgook

pass.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR MONTCALM'S MARQUEE - CHORAL GROUP - NIGHT

of three Seneca women and five boys, led by a Jesuit, sing the Te Deum in the Iroquois

language. This is a large tent that could sleep twenty. Montcalm's four personal guards

are at the entrance as well as COMTE DE LEVIS in dirty lace, a facial wound and a

braceful of pistols on a sash. Inside is simple campaign furniture and a six by eight foot

battle standard and flag of France.

MONTCALM

stands with a huge and fearsome elaborately tattooed and robed Seneca chief in a silk

turban ...

The Marquis de Montcalm is forty-five, wears a large wampum belt as a sash over his

waistcoat. He has an acute intellect, an elegant manner. He is more aristocratic than

Munro, but a consummate professional soldier. Over the Seneca's shoulder, Montcalm

sees and nods to ...

MAGUA

entering with four Huron braves. This is not the Magua we saw on the trail. In his scalp

lock, now red-stained and cut to a Huron roach, are three blacl plumes. A match-coat

blanket drapes his left shoulder.

The Seneca Chief is satisfied and his people, plus the Jesuit, exit. The look on Magua's

face and the wry expression on Montcalm's allows us to understand their relationship is

based on realpolitik.

Magua exhales in derision as he brings a chair to face Montcalm and sits, European

style ...

LOUIS ANTOINE DE BOUGAINVILLE enters. He wears a functional melange of

Indian moccasins over white linen breeches and an officer's waistcoat.

Bougainville published a book on integral calculus at twenty-five, at twenty-six was a

secretary to the French Ambassador in London, in January 1756 at twenty-seven he

was elected a member of the British Royal Academy of Science and at age twenty-eight

he's aide de camp to the Marquis de Montcalm with the rank of captain. Later in life, he

brought "bougainvillea" from Tahiti to Europe to America.

Montcalm won't get a direct answer.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR SURGERY, ENTRANCE - PHELPS - NIGHT

exhausted, sitting on a low stool, taking a breath.

Phelps looks up, then he looks over his shoulder at Cora. She's in a borrowed

Her apron is stained. Hawkeye sees this may be her first time in the New World, but it's

not her first military campaign. Still angered at Munro's dismissive response, he's

nevertheless falling for Cora.

Alice Munro has caught Hawkeye's attention. Outside the surgery where a casement

meets a wall, she sits, withdrawn. A catatonic older woman in a fine dress sits next to

her.

HAWKEYE

enters. Cora's sewing up Uncas.

Cora, curious, nods. Hawkeye cuts some pieces from her ruined and discarded dress

that she now uses to bandage Uncas. We don't know why; neither does Cora.

Uncas laughs, looking from her to Hawkeye. Then he's up and he hurts. Cora starts to

tend another wounded man. As they start out, Hawkeye hesitates. Sensing it, Cora

turns.

Cora measures the directness of Hawkeye's manner. It's not insolent, only unsettling.

Feeling foolish; she turns. He leaves.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCHES - SAPPEURS & ENGINEERS - 	NIGHT

having worked through the night, are still digging the diagonally-advancing trench. We

note it's closer than it was.

EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCHES - FRENCH PICKETTS

at their posts guard the sappeurs. Meanwhile ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, WEST SIDE - SALLY-PORT - NIGHT

opens. Ten Mohawks and Rangers crawl towards the French lines. Meanwhile ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, PARAPET - HAWKEYE & UNCAS -

NIGHT

are low and out of French sight in the northeast battery. Four others are with them,

including Captain Jack. Stacked rifles are against the casement. We don't know why.

Each rifle is within reach of Hawkeye's hand. Hawkeye is taking extra care loading

Hawkeye uses the fine cotton he took from Cora. Uncas sees it.

Uncas nods. Hawkeye wets it to make a tighter gas seal and rams it home. The tighter

fit requires more effort.

HAWKEYE

looks below to ground level ...

A FRONTIERSMAN - COURIER

Two pistols are holstered in a sash around his chest. He wears no hat and carries no

pack. He waits by the sally-port door.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FRENCH TRENCH - THREE PICKETS - NIGHT

are suddenly tomahawked and knifed by stripped down 42nd Highlanders and

Mohawks. Alarm is raised. French and some Huron run to advance. Shots are fired.

The Rangers & Mohawks fall back.

FRENCH

emboldened, pursue ...

TRENCH IN FRONT OF WEST WALL

suddenly Heyward and three companies of the 62nd regiment of Foot (60 men) are

over the top in perfect formation ...

MOHAWKS & HIGHLANDERS

dodge right & left of the 62nd's line of fire.

FRENCH

are coming forward. Their sergeants trying to stop and form their men in ad-libbed

French.

62ND REGIMENT OF FOOT

Like one shot, lightening, smoke and .65 caliber death screams from the first two ranks

like a scythe, cutting down ...

REVERSE: FRENCH

Fourteen wounded or killed ...

62ND REGIMENT OF FOOT - HEYWARD

exposed. He's oblivious to incoming rounds. A piece of hat is blown off, epaulet is shot

off. The man next to him is killed and bloodies Heyward's coat.

Drums. The rear rank walks through the first two ranks, who are priming and loading

in perfect order to their Sergeant Major's commands. As the third rank becomes the

first rank ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - COURIER - NIGHT

sprints for the trees during the diversion of Heyward's sally.

TWO HURONS

materialize from nowhere and charge at him ... both are BLOWN off their feet by ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY, CASEMENT - UNCAS & HAWKEYE

now handed already-loaded, primed and cocked rifles while the four men behind them

reload the two just fired. Hawkeye gestures ...

EXTERIOR HILLSIDE - THREE HALF-SAVAGE CANADIENS

are running down the hill to intercept the courier. One fires ...

COURIER

a near miss.

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - HAWKEYE

FIRES. A half second later, Uncas FIRES.

EXTERIOR HILLSIDE

One Canadien's falling through the trees as the second one's hit by Uncas' shot.

HAWKEYE

reaches out his hand. Killdeer with the heavier load is slapped into it. Hawkeye aims.

Looks away a second and comes back to the sight in deep concentration. The world

goes silent ...

HAWKEYE'S POV: COURIER & CANADIEN

pursuer are barely visible. Only patches appear momentarily between the trees. They're

three hundred yards away: an impossible shot in 1757.

EXTERIOR FOREST - THE CANADIEN

will intersect the courier. His arm is back with his tomahawk to throw ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - HAWKEYE

judges wind, elevates the long rifle ... and FIRES at us.

JUMP CUT BACK:

TREES

Hawkeye's heavy round rips through. We HEAR the ball cut air. A few leaves flutter ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - CANADIEN

whacked head over heels by the impact.

COURIER

looks over his shoulder. He didn't know the Canadien was there. He stumbles in the

half light. Then he runs on ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - WEST SALLY-PORT

The three companies of the 62nd Regiment of Foot file back into the fort in perfect

order. The sally-port is closed. Three men are wounded. The diversion worked

perfectly.

TROOPERS & MILITIA

have seen no action for three days & nights. Heyward got their blood running and won

their respect. They step aside and nod to him. Heyward keeps walking. He is home.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR MUNRO'S BEDCHAMBER - DOOR - NIGHT

a knock and Heyward enters.

CORA & ALICE

Alice is in her father's bed. Cora is collecting and tearing linen into strips for bandaging.

Alice looks at the two of them and rises out of the bed.

She leaves.

There's a lot going on under Cora's surface. We don't know what it is, but it's

disconcerting.

Heyward is stunned.

Heyward' shattered inside.

Heyward nods. He's speechless. He's errect as he leaves the room.

CLOSE: CORA

The tension rushes out of her and she shudders and leans against the quarter-timbered

walls for support. Then she collects the linen and starts out.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR FORT, INNER CORRIDOR - CORA

moving through the corridor past wounded. Two French mortar bombs explode above

one of the casements. We hear shrill screams in the distance and ...

Cora, passing the open door to Munro's crowded office, now hesitates.

CORA'S POV: THE ROOM

Hawkeye, Captain Jack Winthrop, Ian, seven or eight other militia spokesmen, Munro,

Heyward, two adjutants, one lieutenant of Rangers.

Heyward looks around the room. And he catches the doorway ...

CORA

beyond the periphery of men, staring at him.

HEYWARD

Munro is expecting him to be the good soldier in defense of British military interests.

At the same time ...

CORA

examines him with a cool, level stare.

HEYWARD

looks at Munro. More French rounds detonate O.S. What if Webb gets here and they

need to launch a counter-attack? They need every man they have. It's his moment of

decision ...

Jack Winthrop grabs Nathaniel.

CORA'S

saddened. Heyward's stature has fallen irrevocably in her eyes.

HEYWARD

can't help it. He turns to look at Cora ...

HEYWARD'S POV: DOORWAY

She's gone.

HEYWARD

suffused with an inner sadness, turns to Hawkeye.

Heyward reaches for his sword.

This is very dangerous talk.

Hawkeye and the others are not intimidated. Their rage smolders. The look on

Hawkeye's face says this is not over.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT, PARADE GROUND - BONFIRE - NIGHT

Sparks shower skyward. Impromptu music. Some Celtic proto-bluegrass played on

fiddle & drums. It's stirring.

ANOTHER ANGLE: SOME WOMEN

laundresses, dance from soldier to soldier - English foot and American Rangers. A few

people lit by the firelight are solemn. Most are stirred to lift their morale for a while.

THEIR FACES

underlit by the red firelight. They are a disposable people, a diverse plurality stuck in a

postage stamp-size fort in an ocean of forest, locked into mortal deadly conflict

A PLACE A LITTLE DISTANT FROM THE FIRE

We can barely make out the eyes and faces of a number of men behind logs, crates and

new wreckage from the day's bombardment.

Hawkeye shakes his head.

Low laughter

The men split up ...

CUT TO ...

FIRE - HAWKEYE

wanders among the dancers and musicians clustered in groups, lit by the firelight.

HAWKEYE'S POV: CORA

in the shadows, leaning against the wall, searching ... we sense she's been looking

for him. He comes up to her. She turns in surprise.

CLOSER

Somehow she breathes easier because he's there. She's in a white shirt with the sleeves

rolled up. Hawkeye leads her away from some of the people.

CORA & HAWKEYE

Hawkeye takes Cora's hand. Cora is awakening to a new spirit, a new wind blowing

through a new land, a new self-determination ... She's drawn to this rough yet graceful

man with his direct manner. Hawkeye settles against a wall. She leans next to him.

Their shoulders touch.

CORA

To her everything about him seems to be somehow right. She's discovered that the

passions and outrage that move him, move her ... And her readiness to give herself to

what stirs the deepest resonances of her soul is the same as his.

HAWKEYE

looks at her. She's beautiful in the firelight. Cora's eyes find his and she folds into his

arms. His lips find hers and tears stream down her face. She's suffused with an elation

she can't explain. In the night before doomsday a romance is born in rebellion amid the

huddled people in this small stockade ripped from the black earth of the forests of a

wild continent.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR BARRACKS - LOW & WIDE - DAY

door CRASHES inwards. Twelve British sentries storm in. Four bear torches.

REVERSE: HAWKEYE, UNCAS, CHINGACHGOOK, TWO COLONIALS &

SOME MOHAWKS

are out of the bunks and moving with them with tomahawks, knives, a flintlock ...

BRITISH SENTRIES

their muskets aimed mostly at Hawkeye.

Hawkeye freezes. The others slow down, indecisive ... Hawkeye drops his tomahawk

and says something in Mohican to restrain Chingachgook and Uncas. The British in the

torchlight with the long muskets and bayonets are an image out of Goya.

Hawkeye's spun around and while his hands are bound.

One of the guards - scared to death by Chingachgook - nervously fingers his musket.

HEYWARD

enters.

HAWKEYE

shrugs in answer to Chingachgook's question.

HAWKEYE'S

moved out. As he passes Heyward, his eyes lock on his.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR MUNRO'S QUARTERS - CORA - DAY

WIDEN:

Heyward, Munro, Cora. We've entered mid-argument. An adjutant comes and goes.

Heyward and Munro are sensitive to appearances in front of the adjutant. Cora couldn't

give a damn.

Cora is having her intelligence written off as a hormone attack. She contains her fury.

Heyward's shot through the heart.

She exits, leaving them there.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR FORT, STOCKADE - NIGHT

Heavy timbered door. A sentry. They stand at attention when Cora passes as opposed

to barring her entry.

INTERIOR CELL - HAWKEYE

comes to the door, grips the bars with his hands and looks at Cora.

THROUGH THE BARS TO CORA

They are silent for a moment, then ...

Cora's pale smile.

He touches her hand.

Cora drops her forehead to Hawkeye's hands wrapped around the bars. She acquiesces,

nods. Then HEAVY SHELLING commences. Cora & Hawkeye look up. Mortar

bombs begin striking the fortress. Still dark. The final French bombardment has

started.

A pause.

Reaching through the bars set in the thick door, their hands clasp each others. On that

image ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - VARIOUS CUTS - DAWN (2ND UNIT)

French cannoneers in Batteries #1 and #2 fire again and again. They work like precision

drill teams.

FRENCH TRENCH

ending in Battery #3 is complete and surprisingly close to William Henry's walls. Crews

reload the squat and massive newly arrived thirteen inch mortars.

MORTAR ONE

The flash-hole is primed. The burning fuse is jammed into the bomb. The primer charge

is lit off and the crew ducks as the crude iron belches red flame and black smoke into

the lightening sky. The second mortar ROARS. Then a THIRD.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR FORT WILLIAM HENRY - ENGLISH CANNON CREW - NIGHT

tries to return fire but can't under the heavy French bombardment. The French mortar

bomb arcs in and EXPLODES smoke, flame and shrapnel, wiping out most of the

crew. The fortress is under the heaviest attack we've seen. Wounded are in shock or

terrorized. Another mortar bomb arcs in and explodes part of a building and casement,

starting a fire.

Another lands in the grounds. People scatter. It doesn't explode. One soldier dashes to

rip out the fuse. As his hand is inches away ... EXPLOSION.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR STOCKADE - HAWKEYE - DAWN - LATER

protects Cora through the bars as she half sleeps through the muffled roar. Then the

thundering stops. Hawkeye seperates himself from her and crosses to the window.

EXTERIOR FORT, MAIN GATE - HAWKEYES POV: CHEVALIER DE LEVIS

bows deeply to Major Beams. A French honor guard of five men is behind him. A white

scarf is on his sword tip. The fresh destruction of the fort is apparent. Debris smolders.

INTERIOR FORT - STOCKADE - HAWKEYE

crosses to an awakened Cora. He touches her face. He's desperate to drill these next

words into her brain.

Cora looks up at Hawkeye. We feel forboding. O.S. are heard drums ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FRENCH LINES - MUNRO, HEYWARD, BEAMS - DAY

The drums are from Munro's honor guard. They stop.

REVERSE: FRENCH SOLDIERS

Marquis de Montcalm, immaculate, backed by his guard of honor in white, grey and

medium blue with six foot by eight foot regimental colors and the French flag (gold

fleur-de-lis on a field of blue).

FACES

They carried two hundred and forty-five bateaux across a ten mile portage, all their

supplies and artillery, and then rowed down the length of Lake George to get here. To 	them, assaulting this fort is the easy part. The drummers of the honor guard play a

tattoo behind them.

INDIAN FACES

Huron, Ottawa, Osage, Choctaw, Fox ... hear the drum of the honor guard and wait.

They're in war paint. Many tattoos. Split ears. The Osage scalping locks are hennaed

red. Canadiens among them are bearded, dirty, half savage ... At their head ...

MAGUA

in full war paint, with a coterie of Huron warriors, silent, waiting. Drums.

INTERIOR FORT - ENGLISH TROOPS (TABLEAUX)

grim, silent, watchful.

COLONIAL MILITIA & MOHAWK INDIANS IN WAR PAINT (TABLEAUX)

watching the parlay from a blown apart battery. Silent.

WIDE: FRENCH & ENGLISH

and their honor guards. Montcalm steps forward and sweeps his plumed hat to the

ground in a courtly bow. Munro bows coldly.

Is Webb really en route and Montcalm hopes to take the fort by duplicity before British

reinforcements arrive?

Montcalm takes a moment to reply and appears genuinely sympathetic to Munro.

Munro is puzzled, suspicious.

HEYWARD & MUNRO]

Munro is rocked, as if struck by a blow. Bougainville hands Heyward the letter.

Munro starts off. Montcalm stops him.

Munro turns.

Munro's impressed with Montcalm's generosity.

As he turns away something's been disconnected inside Munro that can never get put

back together. As the men move away from the French ...

Munro looks at the fortress behind him.

A beat. Then Munro turns toward Montcalm. Their eyes meet across the churned,

scarred earth of the battlefield.

And Montcalm bows deeply and as he does so ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FRENCH LINES - CLOAKED MAN - NIGHT

passes away from the little city of tents in the direction of the beach and towards

William Henry. He seems to head towards a vantage point from which to observe the

fort. As he approaches a sentry:

The cloak parts. By the light of the moon the man's face is dimly perceived by us and

the soldier as General Montcalm. The soldier snaps erect as Montcalm continues

walking out beyond the line to a small stand of trees.

ANOTHER ANGLE: MONTCALM

The moon is broken into pieces of light on the water and behind Montcalm; from the

front of the stand of trees emerges a tall figure.

Magua grabs the hand of the French commander. Imperceptible surprise in Montcalm's

eyes. Magua jams Montcalm's fingers to his chest.

MAGUA'S CHEST

A deep indentation and scar.

Magua turns his naked back to Montcalm and puts Montcalm's hand on his back ... 	deep ridges of a scar a half inch wide.]

Long pause, wheels turn. Then:

Montcalm reacts as if he hadn't thought of that.

Magua abruptly leaves Montcalm.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR WOODS - MAGUA - NIGHT

walking back to the Huron camp. Reveal a Huron sub-chief has been in the woods,

waiting for Magua. Now he joins him. They walk in silence. Then ...

Magua exhales in derision.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FORT, MAIN GATE - MUNRO - DAY

at the end of the column, rides out on his horse. Both sides of the gate are jammed with

armed French troops standing at attention. The French colors and honor guard are just

outside the gate along with Bougainville, Chevalier de Levis, both on horseback as

is - at the head - Montcalm.

CLOSER: MUNRO

trots past his walking column out the gate. He does not look at the French.

MONTCALM

salutes Munro and bows gravely from the saddle.

CLOSER: MUNRO

salutes Montcalm.

MID-COLUMN - ON HEYWARD

marching with his 33rd Regiment of Foot well beyond the fort. The French troops have

thinned out. Repressing shame, his backbone is rigid, his face is straight ahead. The

33rd marches in perfect cadence to the drum. In the B.G. Munro on his horse passes

Heyward as he rides towards the front of his column. Heyward does not look at him.

FRONT OF COLUMN - CORA WITH ALICE

on the back of a mare. Alice, living through a wide-awake nightmare, is huddled under

the arm of her sister. They ride behind the standard bearers. In the B.G. her father is

seen approaching and takes his position at their side. Cora looks down the column,

sheilding her eyes against the sun. We know who she's looking for ... Hawkeye.

CORA'S POV: THE COLUMN

The 62nd and 42nd Highlanders including Heyward ... thirty to forty women and a

number of children - for safety - in the middle, some frontiersmen, Ongewasgone and

many Mohawk, walking wounded. The column is still snaking its way out of the fort.

No Hawkeye.

CORA

straining to see.

EXTERIOR FORT - PRISONERS

being assembled, their hands shackled. Hawkeye is among twelve or thirteen. He stands

erect, walking out of the gate. The French are starting to pour in to loot the interior.

Hawkeye looks to his left about twenty paces in front of him and sees ...

UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK

on the other side of the column. Chingachgook cradles Killdeer as well as his own

musket. They fall back to walk beside the prisoners on the other side of Hawkeye.

Their eyes connect... We don't expect Hawkeye to stay shackled for the duration.

RANK AND FILE FRENCH

A few insults. The British soldiers answer. Nobody breaks rank. It's just talk.

EXTERIOR ROAD - HAWKEYE

His eyes sweep the column snaking its way into the v-shaped valley. The path cuts

through the forested hills ahead. He sees ...

HAWKEYE'S DISTANT POV: CORA

riding near the front where there are no more French soldiers. Only a few scattered and

curious Huron and Ottawa. She does not see him.

PROFILE OF COLUMN - HIGH & WIDE

as it passes left to right below like a long snake through the narrow valley. We're

shooting from inside the dark woods. Lower, in the light, we see a scattering on both

slopes of a couple of hundred Ottawa and Huron. They are in no order, are spread out

and don't constitute a threat. They watch the column.

SLOWLY THE CAMERA ... slides across the shoulders and back of a large man

wearing black plumes in his scalp-lock and other than a breechcloth is almost naked. He

is heavily war-painted ...

FRONTAL - MAGUA

and the left two-thirds of his face is painted red. The right third is painted black. Much

silver is in his ears. His tomahawk is in his left hand. His cut-down musket in his right

fist. Magua's attention is all focused to one point.

MAGUA'S LONG & TIGHT POV: MUNRO & CORA & ALICE

at the head of the column. This is the focus of Magua's attention.

WIDE FRONTAL: COLUMN, STANDARD BEARERS & MUNROS

Cora turns again to look for Hawkeye.

CLOSER: CORA

doesn't see him, but something else has caught her eye.

YOUNG HURON

running toward the column. Just one man. No musket. He's running and whooping like

a dog charging from his master's front yard. Why?

CLOSER

the Huron arrives at the column, his tomahawk swings into his hand and he brains a

British trooper who falls dead. The single Huron never breaks stride. He simply runs off

again ...

CORA

horrified, holds Alice tighter.

MUNRO

has seen it too. And now he sees ...

62ND REGIMENT OF FOOT

fixing bayonets. A large sergeant unsheathes a two-handed claymore, facing the Hurons

and other Indians ...

TROOPERS

of the 33rd present arms. Did they violate the surrender by carrying ammunition? Locks

are cocked. There's the answer.

EXTERIOR FORESTED HILLSIDES - OTHER TRIBES

are watching what happens.

HEYWARD

scanning them.

Drums beat the cadence.

TROOPERS

step over the fallen soldier. Heads turn, they're on edge ...

END OF COLUMN - HAWKEYE, UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK

watching. They exchange looks. This is not good. Chingachgook cocks both Killdeer

and his own musket.

HAWKEYE'S POV: FORESTED SLOPES

Hold. We start to make out details in the shadow. Tree trunks. We become accustomed

to the dimness. Now in the lower light we see deeper in the forest.

CLOSER

Many Huron and Ottawa are hidden in the shadows. They're moving along parallel to

the column, stalking it. Waiting ...

ANOTHER BRAVE

racing down the hill from the opposite flank towards the 62nd.

TWO SOLDIERS

look at their sergeant. He nods. They wait until he's within ten feet of the column. Both

bayonet the Indian. He's dead.

EXTERIOR HILLSIDES - HURON & OTTAWA

saw what happened. But, they hold their ranks.

MOHAWKS

among the British are slipping tomahawks into their hands, surreptitiously. Some are

cocking flintlocks.

MUNRO

gallops his horse away from Cora and Alice towards the scene of the last attack. We

hear him from the distance ordering ...

Cora's frightened.

HAWKEYE'S

frustrated. He saw Munro leave Cora. He knows events have a momentum and it's

accelerating.

CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS

move next to the sergeant with the shackle keys who looks at them curiously as ...

WOMEN

with children nervously search the threatening trees, hoping against hope these are

isolated incidents.

HEYWARD

draws his sword and is passing orders to his sergeant major, scanning the hills ...

EXTERIOR FORESTED SLOPE - MAGUA

His eyes see Munro.

WIDER & LOWER: MAGUA

raises his musket in his fist and emits a war whoop. WE NOW SEE ... hundreds have

been stalking the column, hidden in the trees, maybe thousands. Then ...

WIDE: ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE

FIRE from the trees crescendos within seconds revealing a spontaneous and massive

ambush of mostly Hurons. They appear from behind every tree and it turns to a ROAR

of musket fire, war whoops and screams as ...

SOLDIERS & CIVILIANS

dropping like flies and seemingly thousands of Hurons attack down both slopes.

HAWKEYE

is being unshackled by Uncas. The sergeant is rising from the ground where

Chingachgook knocked him. Chingachgook throws Hawkeye Killdeer and Hawkeye

shrugs into his pouch and powder horn as he races with Uncas for the head of the

column ...

EXTERIOR FORESTED SLOPE - MAGUA

charging down the hill ... with his coterie of twenty Huron warriors, heading for the

area in which he saw Munro.

CORA & ALICE

at the head of the disintegrating column. Cora's holding Alice's head to her bosom,

covering her ears as if to protect her from the sounds.

HEYWARD

shouting orders.

REVERSE:

The volley knocks down fifteen of a horde of attacking Hurons.

Hurons are twenty yards away and closing.

As the line of muskets belch smoke and fire ...

WIDE: THE HILLS & PATH

We're shooting into the "v" of the valley with Hurons and other tribes pouring down

from both sides. (IMPORTANT: the combined musket fire of Hurons, English and

Mohawks generates tremendous clouds of smoke which obscure action, close off

views, isolate pockets of combat into surreal tableaux that we'll move in and out of.

BRITISH TROOPERS

using their useless muskets as clubs or with fixed bayonets - as the smoke and fog

swirls among the men - fighting for their lives ...

MAGUA

glides through the scenes, striking and hunting. Some of his coterie of braves near him.

He sees ...

BLONDE WOMAN

hugging the ground in fear. Magua throws her over. It's not Alice Munro. It's a woman

protecting her baby. Magua walks on. One of the braves behind Magua raise his

tomahawk. On his downswing ...

HAWKEYE

running through surreal patches, thinks he glimpses Cora two hundred yards away.

Chingachgook, on Hawkeye's left, slams down two Hurons with his war club.

CORA & ALICE

running through the chaos and murder and British troopers and Mohawks locked in

struggle with Hurons. Cora's dress is torn. She holds Alice to her. There's a pistol in

Cora's hand.

ONE HURON

scalping a prone soldier, rips the trophy from his head, turns and faces us.

CORA

shoots him in the face.

EXTREMELY CLOSE: ALICE

and her eyes take it all in. And her affect starts to flatten. A blankness suffuses her

expression and the girl withdraws from this reality into a deep dark cave inside her

head.

HAWKEYE

locked in combat. He tomahawks one Huron's arm with a slashing downstroke and

comes right back into the face of the second with his backswing while his right hand

fires Killdeer at ...

HURON

six feet from Uncas and about to shoot him in the back.

HAWKEYE

free for a moment, spins. He has no idea of direction any more. Everything is death in

strange tableaux. Meanwhile:

MUNRO

hollering

He cuts down a Huron with his sword who is trying to leap at him from the right. An

Osage warrior with red scalp-lock leaps on the back of Munro's horse, reaching over to

stab down into Munro's neck. The old man's left hand grabs the warrior's knife hand in

an iron grip. His right hand pulls his horse pistol and under his upraised arm fires

backward, point blank, blowing the Osage off the back of his horse.

WIDER

Just then Munro's mount is shot. His horse rears up, throws Munro and falls on him.

HEYWARD

shouting orders over the deafening noise.

A well-oiled, well-drilled fighting machine, but there are fewer of them. They're getting

cut off. They close ranks automatically as a man drops. They're retreating in perfect

order.

HURON WARRIOR

about to strike a downwards blow is pushed aside by Magua.

CLOSER: MAGUA

His eyes drop to what's in front of him. The field goes quiet.

OVER MAGUA'S SHOULDER: MUNRO

his lower body is trapped under his dead horse. Magua leans in towards him.

Magua pulls his knife and as he leans down towards Munro ...

MOHAWK & HURON

spin and flail furiously at each other with tomahawks and knives. The Huron goes down

and then the Mohawk is shot. The Huron who shot him is cut down by a Ranger with

tomahawk in one hand and bayonet in the other. Two Mohawks and three Rangers

fighting back to back. They become an island swamped by Huron and Ottawa: amidst

bodies and ground slippery with blood. As smoke obscures their image.

CORA & ALICE

in a group of civilian militia. Two of the militiamen are shot down. The third engages a

Fox warrior. Cora & Alice run.

MUNRO'S FACE

frozen in agony by shock.

MAGUA

reaching down and up into something, emerges and jams an object we barely see into

the air. But his arm and shoulder and half his chest are splashed red with blood.

LONG SHOT: MAGUA

seen from far away, holding aloft the heart of Munro.

REVERSE: HAWKEYE

saw him and fights his way to attack when ...

WHITE HORSE

crazed, CRASHES through men, knocking Hawkeye over ...

CHINGACHGOOK

protecting Hawkeye, slams his war club into one Huron, breaking his attack, his arm

and his skull and swings the other way burying the bladed end into the chest of an

Ottawa who's behind him. Then ...

HAWKEYE'S

up, looking wildly ...

CAMERA JAMS INTO CLEARING SMOKE:

33rd Regiment of Foot and Heyward. They FIRE into our face.

CLOSER: HEYWARD

He grabs a partially loaded musket, the ramrod still in the barrel. They're taking fire.

Men are dying. They're being pushed back.

AN ABNAKI

wearing a large cross, attacks Heyward from the side. One-handed, Heyward fires the

musket into the man's chest, sending the ramrod through him. Then Heyward's shot in

the thigh and a thrown tomahawk hits him in the head and knocks him sideways.

Dazed. Barely able to stand. He uses the musket as a cane and ...

Rank two did not retreat six paces. They stand in confusion. Heyward looks to see

what's wrong.

HEYWARD'S POV: THE REMNANTS OF THE 33RD REGIMENT OF FOOT

are standing in water. They're up against Lake George. Their backs are to the wall. Last

stand. Heyward straightens.

TWO FRENCH OFFICERS

on horseback try to intercede in the slaughter of five women. One French officer is shot

by a Huron. The other French officer runs through that Huron and shoots the second.

Then his horse is shot out from under him and he goes down ...

JESUIT

pleads with an Abnaki to give up a child he's holding by the legs in one hand. He offers

his cross. The Abnaki throws the baby to the Jesuit, Pere Roubaud.

UNCAS

sees a flash of something yellow. So does Hawkeye. They charge into the swirling

chaos of attacking bodies. As we lose sight of them ...

ALICE

on her hands and knees. A massive Ottawa pulls her upright by her hair about to take

her life and her scalp. He's struck by a rock in the hands of Cora which barely phases

him. He bats her aside and returns to Alice, when suddenly ...

OTTAWA WARRIOR

is spun, punched and tomahawked into the ground by Hawkeye. Uncas has Alice and

Cora ...

TWO RANGERS AND A MOHAWK WARRIOR

from the earlier group are nearby. They combine with Hawkeye to fight their way out

HAWKEYE, UNCAS, CHINGACHGOOK, TWO RANGERS, A MOHAWK &

MUNRO'S DAUGHTERS

back through the swirling smoke. There seems to be a lull. Then they're hit from the

side by musket fire. One of the Rangers is shot, the other wounded. Hurons attack. The

Mohawk supports the wounded Ranger.

HAWKEYE

shields Cora as they back up.

CHINGACHGOOK

smashing his war club straight down on a Huron, reaches for the man's musket and

shoots another. Then he sees ...

SMOKE DRIFTING OVER WATER

It's glass-smooth. And the bows are barely visible of three or four Huron war canoes.

THE SHALLOWS - HAWKEYE, CHINGACHGOOK, UNCAS, CORA, ALICE,

THE RANGER & THE MOHAWK

back into the water. They're pursued by Ottawa and Hurons as they fight their way to

the canoes.

CORA

held up by Hawkeye, suddenly screams.

ANGLE

something underwater is pulling her down. An Ottawa brave rockets out of the

shallows. Before he's erect, Hawkeye slams him back into the water and FIRES.

WOUNDED RANGER

has shoved a large birch canoe at them.

HAWKEYE

Suddenly, the Mohawk fighting with them is shot and spins to face Hawkeye. His hands

rest on Hawkeye's shoulders. Hawkeye looks into his face. Tries to hold him up, tries

to rescue him. A frozen moment. Hawkeye's staring into his eyes and the man is staring

into Hawkeye's as the light goes out ... Hawkeye lets him slide into the water and float

away. He moves Cora and Alice towards the canoe ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR LAKE GEORGE - WATER & SWIRLING SMOKE - DAY

The bottom of the frame is water like glass. Smoke obscures the background. Fingers

tendril towards us. Out of the mist we HEAR small splashing and then the high bow of

a war canoe defines itself. It's paddled towards us.

HAWKEYE, CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS

Cora's behind Hawkeye. Alice and the wounded Ranger are near Uncas.

CLOSER: HAWKEYE & CORA

Cora looks left. Her eyes go wide.

HAWKEYE

spins.

HEYWARD & TWO TROOPERS OF THE 33RD IN A SECOND CANOE

have emerged from the smoke ten feet from them. Heyward's aiming a horse pistol at

Hawkeye.

HAWKEYE

is non-plussed. He doesn't stop paddling.

Heyward's a hair's breadth from firing. Suddenly they hear the boom of muskets and

rounds come in.

WIDE

They're being pursued by three boatloads - and then a fourth and fifth - of Huron.

HEYWARD

is indifferent to Huron musket balls. Hawkeye hasn't stopped paddling and pays

Heyward no heed.

Heyward comes to his senses. His head is gashed. A scarf, as a tourniquet, is tied

around his leg. He lowers the gun.

HURON CANOES

paddle hard and deep and the canoes power across the lake.

HAWKEYE & HEYWARD'S CANOES

with less paddlers, plus wounded, are slower and will be overtaken.

HAWKEYE

looks to Uncas. They both realize the same thing. Hawkeye nods and he, Uncas &

Chingachgook begin to paddle furiously. The others match the doubled pace. They're

sprinting ahead but the effort is exhausting.

HURON CANOES

maintain their steady pace. Three or four Hurons fire.

HAWKEYE'S CANOE

Musket balls ricochet on the water's surface. One rips a hole through the bow.

Hawkeye sees one of the Redcoats in Heyward's canoe is giving out ...

He renews the attack on the water with the paddle.

Heyward digs in. Like firecrackers in the distance, Huron muskets sound. A new hail

of musket balls cut the fabric of the canoes. One Redcoat is shot in the back. He falls

overboard.

HAWKEYE CANOE

sprints forward.

CLOSE: HAWKEYE

looks over his shoulder.

THE HURON CANOES

They're pulling away from them.

More Huron musket balls hit water nearby.

REDCOAT

in Heyward's boat is shot. BUT ... the .65 caliber ball didn't penetrate his skin. The

Redcoat - amazed - picks it off the floor of the canoe.

Distance caught up with eighteenth century ballistics. They're out of smoothbore

musket range.

HAWKEYE CANOE]

HEYWARD & REDCOAT'S POV: LAKE

divided by a spit of land. The right fork becomes a river with white water rapids.

HAWKEYE CANOE - HAWKEYE

paddling now, too, as they furiously jam for the white water that will shoot them way

ahead of the Hurons.

UNCAS

leaps off the stern of Hawkeye's canoe and climbs up the stern of Heyward's and takes

control. He roughly gestures to the Redcoat and the Major to stop paddling. He and

Hawkeye will pilot the two canoes.

EXTERIOR WHITE WATER - WIDE - DAY

The canoes enter the white water and they're so light, they're jet-propelled.

CANOE POV: EIGHT FOOT WAVE

racing in the same direction they are. They hit it straight on and it shoots over them and

they're drenched by two waves coming from the sides.

HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK

paddle like fiends to get momentum and control.

UNCAS' CANOE

Same thing. When they crested the wave Uncas hollers at them to "pull" and they do.

As soon as they're through it, Uncas slams the paddle in the water and makes the canoe

revolve a hundred and eighty degrees in a vortex so that now it's going through

stern-first or the stern becomes the bow, so that Uncas could pilot it a different way

through a hazard of ...

EXPOSED ROCKS

jutting out of the water.

WIDE - BOTH CANOES

Hawkeye didn't have to turn because Chingachgook, at the bow, uses his paddle to

shove the canoe away from jutting rocks. Uncas does the same. Past the jutting rocks,

Uncas swings it back around while ...

WHITE WATER

smashes into the camera.

ALICE & CORA

as the canoe roller-coasters and water bursts the bow. Then suddenly it's through and

the water is miraculously smooth.

CANOES

The Ranger, the Redcoats and even Heyward feel the exhilaration of the ride. That's

because they think they're home free.

Heyward turns to look in front of him. He doesn't know what the hell Hawkeye's

talking about.

HEYWARD'S POV: THE RIVER AHEAD

looks glass-smoth. Although there is a distant ROAR of sorts. Then Heyward realizes:

something's wrong with this picture.

CLOSER: HEYWARD

The look on his face starts to change.

HEYWARD'S POV: TIGHTER

The glass surface of the river continues to a line then falls off the end of the world. The

river just ends ...

BOTH CANOES: HEYWARD, REDCOATS, THE RANGER

realize they're heading for the lip of a waterfall. There's a couple of outcroppings of

rock in the center at the very edge. We are at Glen Falls.

AERIAL SHOT

from the other side of the falls. It's a two hundred foot high, death-defying cataract.

The canoes - slightly above us - will go right over.

TWO CANOES

At the last moment, Hawkeye & Uncas land both on either side of the larger rock

outcropping. It is literally at the lip of the falls.

HEYWARD

grabs a rock to anchor the bow of the canoe. He loses his grip. The canoe rockets for

the edge.

UNCAS

lurches sideways, grabs a tree root. He is the only link of the canoe to earth. The bow,

with Heyward, is literally hanging over the edge. Uncas strains and pulls the canoe to

the rock. He gestures to Heyward.

HEYWARD

crawls forward and makes the island. Then the two Redcoats. Finally Uncas. The canoe

rockets over the falls. Meanwhile ...

THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ISLAND

Hawkeye has beached his canoe and is camouflaging it with driftwood and brush. As

they clamber over the high pieces of broken limestone, we see Hawkeye is slipping into

a crevice. He motions to Cora. Uncas carries the wounded Ranger. Heyward helps

Alice ...

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS CAVES - FISSURE - TWILIGHT

The irregular opening of medium blue sky is obscured by the black silhouetted forms of

Hawkeye, Cora and then the others entering.

REVERSE: WIDE

Hawkeye helps Cora; Heyward, the Ranger. Chingachgook carries Alice, down the

rockface into a cave. We hear a distant ROAR reverberating off the walls.

ANOTHER ANGLE: THE WALLS

are scooped out, bone-like hollows eroded by tumbling water. At an earlier time the

formation was part of the falls.

HAWKEYE & CORA

reach the irregular floor of the chamber. The ROAR is louder.

WIDEN TO REVEAL

a curtain of falling water. They're behind the cataract, probably a third of the way down

its height. Light through the water stikes them with a silver luminescence. They're

exhausted. The others join them. They almost have to shout to be heard.

CHINGACHGOOK

followed by Uncas, takes stock of their supplies. They check their powder. They have

almost none. Uncas shares his with Hawkeye. The Redcoat's cartridge case is soaked,

the paper cartridges a soggy mess. Heyward has none. The Ranger has two left. In

Mohican, Chingachgook decides some things. Hawkeye and Uncas nod. Heyward

approaches Hawkeye.

CORA

is soaked to the bones. Hawkeye strips off his buckskin hunting shirt and wrings it out.

Cora turns her back, strips off her white blouse and puts on the faster-drying chamois.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: HAWKEYE

The look on his face tells it all

TWO SHOT

Hawkeye takes Cora away from the group and turns her by her shoulders and whispers

to her. We don't hear what he says. Cora drops to her knees and places her hands over

her eyes and face like a little girl trying to make something bad go away.

HAWKEYE

Leads her to a depression, his arm around her shoulders, her face covered and she cries

softly into his shoulder.

EXTREME CLOSE UP: CORA

says into Hawkeye's ear, after she looks O.S. ...

Hawkeye nods.

ALICE

stands in the chamber not far from the wall of water, fascinated with its shimmer. She's

oblivious to all the events and everything going on around her ...

HEYWARD

sees Cora & Hawkeye together and turns away.

GROUP

Uncas watches Alice. The wounded Ranger has fallen asleep. The Redcoat is

exhausted. Hawkeye & Cora against the wall.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR RIVER BANK - RIVER FALLS ARE IN MIST & RED SKY -

TWILIGHT

A landscape with mist rearlit by the red light of the sun that's already behind the

mountains. The blues are turning purple and the greens are turning black and the white

highlights of the foaming water are going rose. Reflecting the darkening sky, where the

surface isn't broken, the water is fast-moving metal ... SUDDENLY: a shaved head and

muscled back stands into the foreground. It moves down the shore away from camera.

He's followed by other Huron warriors. They're two hundred yards away from Glen

Falls island.

HURON

looks at the island of rock & trees and tilts his head curiously ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST ABOVE CANYON & FALLS - GREY WOLF - TWILIGHT

watches the Hurons below make their way towards the edge of the falls.

OVER HIS SHOULDER: THREE MORE WOLVES

join him, moving frenetically, uneasily ... The leader of the pack looks up & howls as

his eyes go white reflecting the new moon.

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS CAVE - HAWKEYE -NIGHT

hears the distant howl. He's now lit silver blue by the moonlight through the falling

water. Hawkeye knows it means Hurons are out there. He exchanges worried glances

with Uncas & Chingachgook.

UNCAS

immediately starts up the right acclivity to one fissure, and Chingachgook moves

carefully to the first fissure. Hawkeye follows.

HAWKEYE

His countenance gives way momentarily. All his experience seems of no avail. He

touches the side of Cora's face. Grabs Killdeer and follows Chingachgook.

ALICE

sensing new danger, slips away on her own.

CORA

crosses to the Ranger who's semi-conscious, feverish and getting delirious. She can't do

a thing except hold his hand and think of her father.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR SOUTH FISSURE - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK

below the edge, listen & wait, testing the environment with all their senses ...

NORTH FISSURE - UNCAS

against one wall, has his ear cocked, monitoring, facing away from the sky ...

ALICE

looks at the sky through the fissure. She sees the starfields and feels silver moonlight

pull her forward. She starts out onto the island, oblivious, unaware she'll expose them.

Suddenly ...

UNCAS

yanks her down next to him. He pulls her head into his chest, looking out over the

edge, his tomahawk in front of him, his musket near his right hand. There is no sign she

was seen.

UNCAS & ALICE

He relaxes, looks at her and puts his finger to his lips telling her to be silent.

Languorously, she lies back, closes her eyes and lays a hand on his shoulder, palm up,

as if he were a prince in a romantic fantasy. Uncas tries to restrain her.

ALICE'S

eyes slowly open. Oblivion disappears. It's replaced with escalating fear. She holds onto

Uncas with desperation. Her fingers claw his shoulders. She buries her face in his

chest.

Her body shudders. Her terror's total. He tries to restrain and calm her. She won't let

him. Then her mouth seeks his and in the passion of despair and fear and wanting life,

she holds him between her thighs. And Uncas is confused, but Alice whispers his name

and he responds. He loves her in the half-light.

UNCAS

his hand buried in her hair irradiated by the moon, then she seems to reach some

emotional climax and begins to cry softly, and Uncas stops making love to her and

holds her. Then she's flooded with shame. He reaches for her. She jerks away. He

reaches for her again and clutches her to him. And she breaks down. Then he turns her

face to him, but her expression has completely flattened.

WIDER ANGLE

She's not a lover to Uncas now. She's pitiful & stricken and he comforts her.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR RIVER - MAGUA - NIGHT

beaches a canoe on the bank. He and eight braves ease out. His war paint is fresh:

green handprints on his chest and black and green on his face. Black plumes are affixed

to his scalp-lock and his shawl is over his left shoulder. The right arm carrying his

musket is exposed. Many scalps are tied to his tomahawk. He walks towards us

approaching the island, two hundred yards away ...

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR SOUTH FISSURE - HAWKEYE - NIGHT

checks his powder horn. Nearly empty. He looks at Chingachgook.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS ISLAND, CAVE - CORA - NIGHT

with the Ranger, looks up. Hawkeye enters. The look on his face. Then hers. They've

been discovered. Now they're backed into a hole in the ground with no powder and no

way out.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS, CAVE - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK - NIGHT

Chingachgook talks to him in Mohican. Momentarily the anger and frustration is seen

on Hawkeye's face. All his experience & craft has been to no avail. He looks at Cora.

Back to Chingachgook. Chingachgook states something terse in Mohican. Hawkeye

agrees. Heyward's confused. He doesn't know what they're talking about. Cora has

understood Chingachgook's intent perfectly.

Hawkeye uses discipline not to kill the man.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR NORTH FISSURE - UNCAS - NIGHT

Listens. Hears. Then he inches above cover to see ...

UNCAS' POV: THE RIVER & SIX WAR CANOES

of Hurons approach to assault the island carrying torches.

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS CAVE - CORA & HAWKEYE - NIGHT

She's holding him. In the rigid language of her body is the struggle to contain her fear.

CORA

turns aside. Hawkeye insists.

RANGER

conscious now, arranges his crushed body to face the direction from which will come

the attack as ...

HEYWARD

puts Alice, who's entered, behind him as ... Uncas hits the floor of the cave. Now the

first glow from Huron torches starts to light the walls. They're coming ...

CHINGACHGOOK

has their weapons slung over his back. He says something in Mohican. Uncas spins

looks at Alice: her expression's vacant.

HAWKEYE'S KNIFE

cuts a lock of Cora's hair. He folds it into his shirt. The orange light from Huron

torches, now closer, plays on the wall behind her. We hear many Huron approach.

CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS

now run out of the cave and throw themselves into the curtain of water. This is their

exit.

HAWKEYE

engraves her image in his memory one last time and then sprints across the floor

towards the water ...

WHAT HAWKEYE SEES: JAMMING AT THE WATERFALL

and then through it into ...

SUBJECTIVE CAMERA: UP

An awful crushing roar. We explode out the front of a white cataract a third of the way

from the top and we fall down away from the world.

EXTERIOR GLEN FALLS - HAWKEYE - NIGHT

tumbles down the falls; rolling, tumbling through the white water; then through air;

then back into cascading white water again, disappearing ...

THE RIVER BELOW - UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK'S

bodies hit, disappear and don't surface. It looks unsurviveable.

HAWKEYE'S POV: FALLING

Sheets of water fall with us. The bottom races towards us at a hundred miles an hour ...

Just before we hit ...

CUT TO ...

INTERIOR GLEN FALLS, CAVE - FLAMING TORCH - NIGHT

WIDEN. The cave is filled with Hurons. The Redcoat is dead in the corner. A group of

braves moves away from the body of the Ranger.

HEYWARD'S

surrounded. The women are behind him. He slashes at one Huron with his sword and is

clubbed down by a giant.

MAGUA

enters. His blanket, like a shawl, over his left shoulder, black plumes in his hair. He's

imperturbable.

MAGUA'S HAND

reaches out and touches Cora's hair. Cora is frozen to the spot. His hand drops away

from the hated Munros and as Magua turns to go, he says something low in Huron and

the two women are jerked towards the fissures. Heyward is dragged by the arms.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR RIVER - WHITE WATER - NIGHT

miles from the falls. We see a figure. It's Chingachgook, nearly spent, rolling and

tumbling through the fast-moving white water. He submerges, then surfaces again. He

appears exhausted by the fall and ride.

CHINGACHGOOK'S POV: WATER

rocketing at us, battering and drowning us. We glimpse something downstream ...

CHINGACHGOOK

tries to focus, slammed against rocks, he's striking out towards the right, swimming

against the current. He's grabbing for something.

KILLDEER'S MUZZLE

and leather shoulder-strap. Chingachgook's hand grabs it. The current rushing past tries

to steal him from Uncas and Hawkeye, who're also beaten, bloodied, exhausted. They

pull the older, larger man from the water and ...

ON THE ROCK

all three lie there, almost devoid of energy. Then Hawkeye rises, looks at the others.

Chingachgook nods. He's up. Then Uncas, and they're moving off into the calm eddy

between the rock they landed on and the shoreline.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - HURONS - DAY

move along animal paths.

CORA & ALICE

struggle through the branches of trees. No one helps them. When they fall behind, they

are pushed forward.

HEYWARD

badly beaten, bound, staggers ahead to get behind Maqua. Then:

Magua looks at Heyward derisively. Does this white man think he's an idiot?

Long pause as if Magua and King George II were seriously considering this 	transaction.

Heyward is first realizing with whom he's playing.

Magua totally disdains the Englishman and walks away from him, starting up a steeper

forested hill.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - HAWKEYE, UNCAS & CHINGACHGOOK - TWILIGHT

running cross-country after the Huron column. They leap over fallen logs and keep

going.

FRONTAL: HAWKEYE

breathing hard, his lips are drawn back, sweat stains his buckskins.

PROFILE: UNCAS

runs. Then sees something.

BENT BRANCH

where Cora & Alice were struggling up the animal path.

REAR SHOT

as they race across a stream away from us after the war party and into the night ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - CORA - NIGHT

supporting Alice, is dragged forward by a Huron warrior by a woven rawhide thong

tied to her neck.

MAGUA

is imperturbable.

HURONS

move quickly down into a ravine.

HEYWARD

is shoved forward.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST - RUNNING FEET - DAY

Long, loping strides.

HAWKEYE & UNCAS

cover ground like long-distance runners. No noise except their hard, even breathing.

They're moving down a clear trail.

CHINGACHGOOK

out on the flank. Running hard.

CLOSER: HAWKEYE

lips are drawn back, determined, flashing through the hard verticals of the forest, now

leaps down an embankment into the soft loam and keeps going.

CUT TO ...

EXT. HURON VILLAGE - ORNATE CHAIR - DAY

on a rude platform. The entire village is crowded in a large circle. They all wait for

someone. They've been waiting a long time. In the perimeter warriors keep Huron at

bay for some reason. We see Magua. He stands apart. They wait. Then ...

ANCIENT SACHEM

is led to the dais by three women down the main street between the neat rows of birch

bark lodges. Many scalps and trophies from the massacre are in evidence. He sits on the

raised platform. He looks to be in his nineties. His dark wrinkled face is contrasted by

his long white hair. His robe is painted in hieroglyphical representation of combat. He

wears numerous silver & gold medals, gifts of French, English and Dutch governors.

Most startling is his face. His dark & lined skin is enhanced by delicate lines of

tatooing. He looks up to Magua.

Now we see Cora on the ground. Defeat & fear are held in place by her determination.

Alice looks around, in another place. Heyward's hands are bound between his back with

a piece of wood wedged through his elbows.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR DIFFERENT FOREST - WIDE FRONTAL: UNCAS, HAWKEYE &

CHINGACHGOOK - DAY

running. Then Uncas drops and the other two follow.

WIDE OVER THEIR SHOULDERS: THE HURON "CASTLE"

seen in the distance through the sparse trees. They have dropped at the very periphery

of the forest where the woods end. (The lay of the land is important for action that

follows: the village is built in a meadow. To the left is a cliff face that rises to a rocky

promontory. On the right is a path that winds up to the promontory and beyond, across

the mountains.)

Hawkeye sees ...

HAWKEYE'S POV: THE VILLAGE, CAPTIVES & HURON CROWD

in the center, outside the largest lodge.

HAWKEYE

slams the earth with his fists. They didn't intercept them in time. Difficult odds just

became impossible.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR HURON VILLAGE - MAGUA - DAY

The sachem considers this. Then he looks up and sees something beyond Magua.

MAGUA

senses the sachem's eye line ...

HAWKEYE

unarmed, walking through the Hurons. A young boy rushes at him. Hawkeye, at the

last possible second, dodges. Others catch and restrain the boy. The Hurons are

astounded a European would simply walk into their camp.

CORA

sees him enter, doesn't believe he's there.

Hawkeye glances at her, doesn't respond. The situation is a stick of dynamite ready to

go off.

Magua starts towards Hawkeye, his tomahawk slipping into his hand.

Sachem gestures with his hand to Magua. Magua reluctantly stops advancing on

Hawkeye. Heyward's French translation has faded to a murmur. We hear Hawkeye's

English.

Sachem reacts.

Hawkeye realizes this is true.

Hawkeye appears to be losing his debate with Magua.

Magua starts to rebut. Sachem holds up his hand and stops him. Nobody talks. Sachem

whispers to the older men on either side of him.

MAGUA

waits for the decision.

CORA

looks to Alice, then to Hawkeye.

HAWKEYE

exchanges a desperate look with Cora and then senses the Sachem is staring at him

from the perspective of nearly a century of laws & judgments. Then ... to every word.

Cora, hearing the sentence ... Hawkeye's losing her.

Alice is gone, living in some dark recess of her mind.

People move, start to implement the sentence. Hawkeye's panicked. Cora is jerked

upright. She looks at Hawkeye in terror: Sachem is starting to depart.

Heyward translates into rapid-fire French.

Cora is jerked forward by three Hurons. Magua grabs Alice. Cora strikes at Magua. He

knocks her aside. Chaos & confusion. Meanwhile:

Those Hurons who hear, do so in deadly, boding silence. Magua and his fourteen hard

core braves start out as ...

SACHEM

heard Heyward's translation. He looks at Heyward, then looks at Hawkeye and he nods

his head.

HAWKEYE

sees this. His eyes go to Cora. They've stopped dragging her towards the fire pit.

Hawkeye steps forward to surrender. Cora is thrown at him. Cora looks around wildly.

Instead of taking Hawkeye, two warriors grab Heyward.

HEYWARD

is immediately hamstrung and his legs collapse. He gasps. He's caught under the arms

and dragged forward.

Hawkeye's holding Cora. Heyward struggles to be seen.

He's gone. They start to ease away from the mass of Hurons.

Hawkeye's concentration is on backing out of the Huron mob. Will the Sachem's

judgment be honored? Will some warriors hack down Hawkeye & Cora? As they go ...

CORA

moves towards her sister. But Hawkeye holds her tightly as they retreat.

CORA'S POV: ALICE

with Magua's group crosses the path. He drags Alice behind him like baggage. She

regains her feet. Magua is oblivious to her. He's heading towards the plateau.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR FOREST, TREE LINE - CHINGACHGOOK & UNCAS - DAY

Uncas sees Magua's direction. Uncas touches his father, grabs his musket and races off.

Chingachgook reaches to stop him, but he's too late. Chingachgook's hand in the air ...

TWO-SHOT: HAWKEYE & CORA

near the tree line. Hawkeye has eyes only for ...

HAWKEYE'S POV: HURONS

moving towards fire pit. One turns to watch Hawkeye & Cora depart. Will he arouse

others to attack? Behind him, others are doing something to Heyward and flames leap

up.

CORA'S EYES

are on Alice, off to the right in the meadow.

HAWKEYE

tense. They're almost there.

CHINGACHGOOK

holding Killdeer.

CHINGACHGOOK'S POV: MASSED HURON

Sky & flames. Suddenly, Heyward's stood upright into the fire, bound to a bracket by

his arms. As the flames start devouring him ...

HAWKEYE & CORA

close to Chingachgook and the tree line ...

CHINGACHGOOK

tosses Hawkeye Killdeer. As fast as he jams it into his shoulder he FIRES.

HEYWARD

among the hollering Hurons, is shot dead. It goes unnoticed.

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS - DAY

half-way up the rock face. He's approaching an overhang. He climbs with a reckless

desperation ...

EXTERIOR STREAM - HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK

pound across the (sic) to the meadow towards Magua's path ...

CORA

trying to stay with them, scrambles up ...

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS

reaches the overhang. It juts away from the face six feet.

THE CEILING OF THE OVERHANG

Uncas' hand jams into a crack in the granite, forms a fist and twists, making a wedge.

He swings out, dangling in space by the hand wedged into the rock. His right hand

reaches out and up, searching the vertical face for ...

UNCAS' HAND

... a rock flake. An indentation. Anything ... His fingers find a diagonal crevice and ...

UNCAS

swings out, now hanging by the vertical face above the overhang. His features are

distorted with determination. Nothing will stop him. His right hand grabs another rock.

His arms snap him up. Then push. He's on the ledge. Moving fast ...

CUT TO ...

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - HURONS - DAY

on point are approaching the path above the promontory. Five warriors are ahead of

Magua. One behind him drags Alice.

FIRST

Huron starts up the narrow path. Suddenly ...

UNCAS

slams him off the rock with the butt of his musket.

WIDE ANGLE

Two's musket coming up. Uncas swings. FIRES. Before he's fallen, Uncas bayonets

Three.

FOURTH

FIRES, misses, swings. Uncas slips the swung musket, but it catches his elbow. Uncas'

musket falls. Before it hits the ground his tomahawk is out and hacks Four over the

edge ...

MAGUA

running forward past Five, confronts Uncas head on. It's incredibly fast.

UNCAS'

three tomahawk swings are dodged by Magua whose own knife streaks like silver

flashes. Uncas, gashed on arms and chest, feints right and slams Magua with an open

hand, closes and the men are intertwined steel and muscle ... and Magua throws Uncas.

Going with him and rolling off Uncas, Magua's knife flashes into his armpit. Uncas'

right arm is useless. He scrambles up. Next to the expertise of a mature warrior like

Magua, Uncas' raw, young determination may not be enough.

EXTERIOR - MEADOW - CHINGACHGOOK

freezes.

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - UNCAS

closing, swings. Magua moves inside, stabs Uncas twice, turns him to face the edge,

ripping his head left to expose the right underside of his throat.

CLOSE: MAGUA'S

knife arm punches forward.

WIDE: PROMONTORY

Uncas falls down the face onto to the rocks.

CHINGACHGOOK

seeing his boy killed, CRIES out and is charging up the path, Hawkeye following.

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - ALICE

backs to the edge.

MAGUA

moves on Alice. His knife is low, about to strike. She stares at him. Her eyes are like

pools of deep water, calm, open, almost beatific. It stops Magua ...

MAGUA

inexplicably, drops his knife hand. He's riveted by her. About him, there's a glimmer of

something else. He wears a human face for this one moment. He reaches out with his

other hand to offer her safety. To bring her back from the edge ...

ALICE

looks down at Uncas, her lover, dead on the rocks below. She turns to Magua with

enigmatic calm. Her eyes seem to see into him. She steps off the edge. She falls to her

death next to Uncas ...

EXTERIOR MEADOW - CORA

collapses to her knees on the ground and her face falls forward into her hands ...

HURON WARRIORS

are running down the path to intercept Chingachgook, charging uphill, fueled by a

father's rage, and Hawkeye. One Huron aims at the center of Chingachgook's chest ...

HAWKEYE

FIRES past his father's side. The Huron's blown off the path. Hawkeye races to reload

on the run ...

EXTERIOR PROMONTORY - MAGUA

sees the approach of Chingachgook.

TO CHINGACHGOOK

Huron warriors are an irrelevance. He slams one aside with his musket.

HAWKEYE FIRES.

HURON

with tomahawk, about to blindside Chingachgook, is SHOT DOWN.

MAGUA

charging Chingachgook.

VERY WIDE

Two men, like dots, race to collide at the center of the promontory. Now the others fall

back... It's one-on-one. Hawkeye slows ...

COMBATANTS

Magua - confident, pumped up - feints with his left, his tomahawk appearing in his

right, sweeping backhand, while his left, magically holding his blade, is jamming up to

gut Chingachgook. Chingachgook's dead. Except ...

CHINGACHGOOK

isn't there. He rolled and, on one knee with his back to Magua, his arm slams rearward.

The massive war club crashes into Magua's back.

MAGUA

stunned, turns to hatchet Chingachgook ...

CHINGACHGOOK

now up and towering - slams his club right into Magua's assault ... destroying it,

CHINGACHGOOK

... with his momentum, spins like a shot-putter and the next blow cripples Magua's left

side and crushes part of his chest.

ANOTHER BLOW

destroys Magua's collar and shoulder.

MAGUA

amazed. His body is broken and crippled, but he still stands. He looks into the eyes of

the last warrior of the Mohicans.

And he spins and swings. The blade side of the war club punches into Magua's chest,

caving him in two.

WIDE

Magua dies in the dust.

HAWKEYE

watching Chingachgook's heaving back. It's over.

CORA

alone, kneeling in the meadow. Her eyes downcast ...

FADE OUT ...

FADE IN

EXTERIOR - MOUNTAIN TOP - WIDE REAR SHOT - NEXT DAY

Chingachgook's at the edge, facing the endless rolling forests to the west. A haze of

sunlight illuminates silver and lead clouds. Hawkeye is a little apart, watching his father.

HAWKEYE'S POV: CHINGACHGOOK

speaks to the sky.

ON HAWKEYE & CHINGACHGOOK

We HEAR Hawkeye's English translation in VOICE OVER:

Chingachgook's hands drop to his sides. He lets out his breath with a weariness. His

eyes seek Hawkeye's. They hold ...

CORA

is standing, her back to us, in front of a rock-covered grave with a wooden cross. Next

to it is Uncas' burial platform. Cora [says a] silent prayer. Then she pauses, crosses

herself. Her emotions are spent. She moves next to Hawkeye. He takes her hand.

HAWKEYE & CORA]

Long pause.

She turns to face him.

Pause.

They hold each other's eyes. She searches his face.

They move next to Chingachgook. He senses they're beside him. Hawkeye's arm is

around her shoulders.

Hawkeye puts a hand on his shoulder.

Cora, listening to Chingachgook, takes Hawkeye's hand.

REAR SHOT

Cora stands next to her man. Hawkeye puts his arm around his father. They stare out

over the wilderness.

