The Officials consider this gravely.

Bill looks in a mirror as he admires his new insignia.

Bob wakes, stiff and cold, in the front of the car. He

sits up and looks around, trying to work out where he is.

Suddenly he realizes he is ALONE. Afraid, he scans the

landscape around him - featureless desert stretches to

the horizon.

Bob jumps out of the car, panicking and starts to run in

a random direction.

He stops, staring at the immense empty landscape ahead of

him.

Bob turns and sees Lyn in a YOGA pose on the roof of the

car.

We hear a sudden, sharp POPPING sound. Immediately the

Men drop into CROUCHES, scanning the area.

He opens FIRE - IMMEDIATE CHAOS: people scream, duck

down, some cars reverse desperately and collide with the

cars behind. The other Security Men join in the shooting.

Another SUV - identical, but black, is passing, hemmed in

by traffic. A stray BULLET from the gas-station pings off

it's armor plating. Immediately it screeches to a halt

and a NEW DETACHMENT OF SECURITY MEN roll from the car -

same flak-jackets and Oakley sunglasses but different

color uniforms.

The New Detachment open FIRE blindly in the general

direction of the Station.

...as bullets smack off the parked SUV.

All the Security Men turns and begin spraying bullets

across the road. Car windshields and windows explode.

INSIDE THE SUV

A scowling Nixon has slid low in his seat.

Mahmud, Bob and Lyn are lying flat on the seats.

Bob flinches as another bullet ricochets off the SUV.

As machine-gun fire from across the street strafes the

station and Nixon's Security men return fire blindly.

Behind him Lyn, Bob and Mahmud crawl across the station

on their hands and knees, bullets zipping past them.

Mahmud leads Bob and Lyn at a crouching run down the

street, amongst the crowd of Iraqis fleeing the gunfire

behind them. We hear the whup-whup of a helicopter as a

Kiowa Warrior passes over head.

Moments later we hear an EXPLOSION as the helicopter

opens fire with a MISSILE...

TRACKING along a wall, past a crooked WEDDING PORTRAIT -

a smiling Mahmud and WIFE, the glass broken...

We TRACK past a row of BULLET HOLES in the wall, a

section of smoke damaged wall paper.

We reach Bob, Lyn and Mahmud eating at a low table. The

windows behind them have been partially boarded up.

Mahmud is sunk into a profound depression. Lyn looks

tired, pale. They eat in awkward silence.

Bob nods politely. Mahmud nods, sighs.

Lyn clears his throat.

Mahmud shrugs.

Mahmud nods. Beat.

Lyn demurs softly.

The men eat in silence for a moment. Mahmud stares

blankly at his plate, looking crumpled and lost. Bob

watches him, faintly irritated. Lyn tries to think of

something comforting to say.

Mahmud looks at him, startled perhaps by the unexpected

Arabic phrase.

Mahmud shakes his head, moved but embarrassed.

They eat in silence.

Lyn and Bob are sharing a bed. Bob looks out of the

window and notices a CLOUD over the moon. He concentrates

on it, trying to "bust" it. Nothing happens. He sighs,

looks over to Lyn who is staring at the wall, lost once

more in dark thoughts.

A JEDI - TIM KOOTZ - lies on the couch in a TRANCE, Bill

sitting beside him with pen and paper.

Tim jerks awake from his trance.

Bill looks up to an CIA AGENT observing from the next

room. The Agent frowns.

Bill waits a little anxiously. The CIA Agent walks up to

him.

MAJOR GENERAL JACK GILLING is being driven through the

base. As he stares out of the window his expression

suddenly changes to one of amazement.

RUSSELL'S P.O.V - we are driving past the training

course. A bare-chested, long-haired Hickox is dancing

around a wooden pole to which he is attached by two long

wires and metal hooks which are stuck in his bleeding

nipples.

Bill is introducing a young, fresh-faced recruit -

LIEUTENANT NORM PENDLETON to the other Jedis.

Larry Hooper examines the new recruit with interest.

Larry and Norm are jogging together, deep in

conversation.

Norm sits on the couch, smiling innocently as Larry

wheels an ELECTRONIC DEVICE on wheels over to the couch.

Larry, making sure Norm can't see, is pouring a massive

dose of LSD into a DRINK. He gives the glass a quick stir

and turns, smiling, to Norm with it.

Norm lies tripping on the couch, rigid, wide-eyed,

wearing headphones, connected to the electronic device,

which emit disturbing electronic frequencies.

Larry stands at the light switch, turning the red bulb

overhead on and off, eagerly watching Norm's reaction - a

modern day Frankenstein.

...cowering terrified under the couch, as the sound of

GUNSHOTS fill the room. Norm's NAKED LEGS stride past

him.

A NAKED AND DEMENTED NORM walks through the base, firing

random shots at scattering soldiers with his Beretta. He

finds Bill blocking his way.

Norm starts to cry. Then he puts the gun into his

mouth...

Norm's father - MAJOR GENERAL PENDLETON - stares fixedly

to where Bill and Brigadier General Hopgood sit in the

hearing - his expression filled with icy rage.

...looking every inch the neat, professional soldier.

The OFFICIALS listening register shock and dismay. Bill

stands up, outraged.

Bill jumps to his feet again.

The OFFICIALS look at him as if he were SATAN himself.

Bill, a broken man, is walking off the base. He reaches

the gates and sees Lyn waiting for him.

Lyn can't speak. Bill hugs him and walks off, the gates

closing after him.

The Jedis sit having their hair shaved with electric

clippers. The Jedi's NEW COMMANDER - MAJOR HOLTZ - not a

shred of New Age sympathy in his regulation heart - walks

down the line, examining his men coldly.

Lyn stares at his reflection as his long hair falls to

the floor.

Bob wakes up, listening to the sound of Lyn's laboured

breathing.

Across the room Lyn sits, sweating with pain, preparing

an injection. We see he has used the LAST OF THE

MEDICINE. He injects himself, his breathing beginning to

ease and sits staring at the empty VIAL. Bob watches for

a moment then shuts his eyes, feigning sleep.

Lyn and Bob are waiting on the quiet road which is

studded with burnt out CARS.

Mahmud drives an old Renault out of a warehouse and over

to them. He gets out the car and hands Lyn the keys.

Lyn watches Mahmud in the mirror as they drive away. He

stands in the middle of the road, staring at his feet.

They drive on.

As the car cuts across the landscape.

The car has pulled over at a junction.

Lyn sits staring out at the emptiness, looking, perhaps

for the first time, worried.

He gives Lyn his watch. Lyn looks at the watch and turns

to stare at Bob.

Bob stares at him.

Lyn abruptly starts the engine and takes the right turn.

HIGH ANGLE

Below us the car drives off into the empty landscape,

getting smaller and smaller. Then...

BOOM. We see the flash of the explosion and the Renault

is flipped like a toy car. A ribbon of black smoke rises

into the blue sky. Silence.

BOB's P.O.V - We are stumbling forward towards a sand

berm. We hear the sound of heavy breathing.

Lyn is staggering over the sand with Bob on his back. He

is holding his backpack. Bob has a gash on his forehead

which is bleeding. Under the blood his face is white. In

the distance, behind them, we can see the column of black

smoke rising.

Lyn puts Bob down. Bob keels sideways onto the sand and

lies there, wheezing.

He hauls Bob to his feet, puts his baseball cap on him

and pulls him onto his back. Bob hangs there limply as

Lyn sets off again.

Lyn reaches up and gropes at Bob's face, removing his

spectacles. Bob doesn't notice.

He passes Bob his backpack. They stagger on in silence

for a moment, Bob jogging up and down on Lyn's back. Lyn

snaps the legs off Bob's glasses, uses them as improvised

divining rods to scan the sand ahead.

Lyn doesn't answer, keeps on walking, struggling a little

under the weight. Beat.

He staggers on with him.

Bob trails after Lyn, his shirt tied around his head,

breathing hard. Lyn is still scanning the sand.

He staggers, manages not to fall.

Bob stares after him incredulously.

Lyn walks on without answering. Bob notices the sun is

sinking.

Bob watches Lyn stare around him, looking pale and drawn

and, for the first time, afraid.

Bob is so staggered by this for a moment he can't speak.

Lyn starts to walk off but staggers and falls.

Bob rushes to him, kneels beside him. Lyn clutches his

stomach, grimaces.

Bob stares at him, stunned.

Lyn sits staring up at the immense MOON above them.

Bob sits watching, huddled against the cold, in the

shelter of some rocks. Lyn gets up, stumbles back over to

him and lies down, struggling for breath, white with

pain.

Lyn stares at the stars above, remembering, grief

stricken.

The Jedis, now indistinguishable from other soldiers,

stand white-washing over the COSMIC MURALS. Major Holtz

stands watching.

Larry stands to attention in front of Holtz, a REPORT

held under one arm.

Holtz snorts angrily.

He takes the report and begins to look through it. Pause.

He looks up slowly at Larry.

Holtz ponders the report, tempted.

The building we saw at the top of the film. A hundred

GOATS stare silently at us.

We BOOM down to reveal that many of the goats have their

legs in PLASTER.

...with big, brown eyes.

A SOLDIER stares doubtfully down at the dog, bolt-gun in

hand.

A Goat stands tethered in the desert. TITLES read "Nevada

Test Site, Frenchman Flat, 1951."

We hear the drone of an AEROPLANE high, high above. The

goat looks up...

Lyn stands facing the goats. Holtz and Hooper watch him.

Lyn STARES. One of the goats STARES BACK. Lyn STARES. The

goat STARES BACK. Lyn STARES.

And the Goat falls over.

Beat. The goat gets back up, shakes itself and walks off.

Lyn slumps.

Bob listens transfixed.

Six GOATS - each wearing a NUMBERED BIB - stand in a

small bare room. A SOLDIER is setting up a VIDEO CAMERA

in front of them.

Lyn sits in another bare room. Holtz and Larry Hooper

stand watching him. Lyn is also being TAPED. A SOLDIER

walks in carrying an envelope. Holtz takes the envelope

and draws from it a piece of paper. He shows it to Lyn -

the number FOUR.

Lyn stares at the number.

Lyn flushes with indignation at the memory.

He turns to look at Bob, haunted.

CLOSE ON LYN

...as he stares, concentrating.

VIDEO FOOTAGE

Grainy, flickering black and white footage of the six

goats in the room. Suddenly one of them goes down.

A soldier runs into the room. Holtz, Hooper and Lyn turn

to him, the atmosphere electric with dread and

anticipation.

The three men stare at him.

Bob stares at Lyn aghast.

Bob shakes his head, stares out into the darkness.

Lyn flicks a suspicious glance at Bob, but is reassured

by his solemn expression.

Lyn, wearing civilian clothes and holding a suitcase, is

walking off the base. He reaches the gates and turns for

one last look at the place that has been his home.

Lyn tuns back to the gates and finds Larry Hooper

standing in front of him, looking WIRED.

Before he can finish Larry CHOPS his hand down in an odd

blow onto Lyn's forehead. Lyn staggers back a little,

holding his head.

Larry has already darted around him with a crazy laugh

and is running madly back into the base. Lyn stares after

him, stunned.

Bob looks at Lyn, puzzled.

He flops back, too tired to talk anymore. Bob watches him

as he falls asleep.

The same horizon, the dunes now burning under the sun. We

TRACK back and find Bob and Lyn lying asleep, lips

cracked, dehydrated, exhausted. Faintly we hear a sound -

a tinny BELL. It gets closer. Groggily Bob opens his eyes

just as a GOAT walks into the frame and walks past him,

the bell tied around its neck. Bob lies, watching it

pass, trying to work out if it's a hallucination. He

struggles to his feet and sets off up the berm he's been

lying at the foot of.

The goat walks on ahead of Bob, crests the top of the

berm and disappears from sight.

Bob reaches the top of the berm and stands, swaying,

staring down at something.

CLOSE ON BOB'S FACE - stunned.

Bob is dragging a barely conscious Lyn up the berm,

following the goat. He staggers, barely able to put one

foot in front of the other.

At last we crest the top of the berm and find ourselves

looking down on a WATER-HOLE, fringed with palms. The

goat stands drinking. It stops to look up at us.

Bob and Lyn collapse into the wet mud of the hole. Bob

manages to cup some water into Lyn's mouth and then his

own. He rolls onto his back, stares up at the burning

sky.

We hear a dull roaring, muffled, growing in volume. A

HELICOPTER is approaching...

In the BLACK we hear a VOICE.

OVERHEAD SHOT - Lyn and Bob lie side by side in beds,

both hooked up to IV's. Sunlight slants through the

shutters on the window in the cool room. The voice is

coming from a SPEAKER on the wall.

Lyn opens his eyes, looks around him.

Lyn looks at the door and for a second there's a FLASH OF

A FACE staring in through the glass. Then it's gone.

Over the speaker comes the sound of a period song.

Lyn sits up, staring at the door. Bob stirs in his bed.

Lyn walks unsteadily out of the room, towing his IV drip

behind him.

The door at the end of the corridor is just CLOSING. Lyn

sets off down the corridor. Bob appears in the doorway

behind him, towing his own IV.

Lyn passes doors, glances into the rooms beyond...

LYN'S P.O.V - the room seems to house a PRINTING PRESS. A

SOLDIER stands with his back to us, watching LEAFLETS

fire out of the press.

We pass to the next room which seems to be a RECORDING

STUDIO - the walls covered in shelves of CD's. A SOLDIER

sits with headphones on playing an electronic keyboard...

Lyn emerges blinking into the light. He stares around

him. The song is playing over speakers, echoing eerily

around the base.

A door slides shut with a clang nearby and Lyn turns to

locate the sound.

A trail of FOOTPRINTS leads across the sand to a HANGAR

nearby.

Lyn heads off across the sand, dragging the IV. Bob

emerges behind him.

Lyn reaches the sliding doors of the building and drags

them open and stands staring into the gloomy interior.

Bob catches him up.

He stops following Lyn's gaze...

INSIDE THE BUILDING

The place is full of GOATS.

Lyn and Bob stare at the animals. Slowly Lyn advances

into the darkness, peering around him.

In the shadows at the back of the building a figure

STIRS. Lyn walks slowly forward until he can make out the

man - old, bearded, worn and wasted by years of heavy

drinking. It's BILL DJANGO.

Lyn stares at him.

Bill smiles hesitantly.

Lyn is too choked with emotion for a moment to answer.

Bob is too amazed to reply.

Bob and Lyn turn to find Larry Hooper standing in the

doorway behind them.

Lyn stares at Larry - shocked.

Larry and Bill are showing Bob and Lyn around. A few

CIVILIAN WORKERS are working at computers behind them.

Bob picks up a LEAFLET.

Lyn is staring at Bill who is looking a little vacantly

at the racks of CD's. Larry notices.

Larry smiles a little mockingly.

Bob nods a little nervously.

He indicates the PSIC name badge he's wearing.

Bill frowns at the CDs, not seeming to hear.

He puts the disc in a player and presses play. We hear a

burst of a period song.

He turns back to Lyn.

Bill stands up and starts walking a little unsteadily

towards the door.

Larry waits until Bill has left before turning back to

Lyn.

Larry shakes his head in apparent sorrow. Then he notices

some candy on a desk.

He picks it up and starts to eat it.

Lyn shakes his head, trying not to show the emotions he

is feeling.

Bob helps Lyn down the corridor. Lyn suddenly stops,

listening. There is a faint sound of MUSIC coming from

somewhere nearby.

Lyn walks down the corridor, Bob following. At the end of

the corridor is a single door with a SPY-HOLE. The loud

music is coming from there. We can hear now that it is an

annoying children's show song or heavy metal.

We TRACK towards the door...

Lyn hesitates then slides back the SPY-HOLE cover and

peers in.

LYN'S P.O.V -

An IRAQI PRISONER sits huddled in the cell, illuminated

in the flashes of a powerful STROBE LIGHT OVERHEAD.

The prisoner looks terrified, and despite the whimsical

music the whole scene is horribly sinister.

Lyn steps away from the spy-hole.

Lyn sits on his bed, as low as we've ever seen him. Bob

watches him, concerned.

Lyn stares at the wall.

He lapses into silence. Bob is stunned. Lyn lies down.

Lyn pulls the EAGLE FEATHER from the chain around his

neck.

Bob stares at him.

Bill Django sits cross-legged in the sand, drinking from

a bottle of whiskey, watching the sun set.

Bob marches up to him, stands awkward but determined.

Bill doesn't answer.

Bill takes a long drink, stares at the sky. Bob watches

him with mounting frustration.

Bill doesn't react. Bob starts to walk away then turns

back, and throws the FEATHER down at Bill's feet.

Beat. Bill turns to look at Bob for the first time. He

takes a long drink.

Bill stares at the feather.

He looks around for inspiration - notices a LONE CLOUD

floating in the sky.

Bob places his fingers on his temples and STARES at the

cloud, focuses, desperate, hopeful...

Bill notices and watches, curious.

Slowly, the cloud fades and DISAPPEARS.

Bob can't believe it. He looks at Bill who is staring at

him. He has tears in his eyes.

Lyn lies sleeping. Larry sits at the foot of his bed,

smoking a cigar. He watches Lyn for a moment, then COUGHS

deliberately. Nothing. He repeats the cough - louder. Lyn

wakes.

The two men stare at each other.

Lyn stares at him, disturbed, afraid this might be true.

Larry closes his eyes, trying to remember something.

Lyn listens, moved despite himself.

Bill and Bob stand on a picnic table, under the full

moon. Bill is leading Bob through some YOGA POSITIONS.

Both are drunk.

Lyn can't help but join in the prayer.

Bill and Bob both stand in a difficult position -

balanced on one leg.

As we watch Bill slowly topples forward off the table and

crashes out of sight below.

The two men finish the prayer.

He pats Lyn's leg, walks out.

Bob is holding a concussed Bill who has a cut on his

head.

Bill opens his eyes suddenly.

Bill and Bob head down the corridor. They pass a SOLDIER.

They walk on and reach the doors to the KITCHENS. The two

men hesitate, look at each other...

Then Bob walks in.

PSIC WORKERS AND PSYOPS TROOPS are all eating breakfast

together, talking, laughing.

Bob and Bill sit drinking coffee. Lyn appears with a tray

and sits down beside Bob.

They eat in silence for a moment. Lyn turns to look out

of the window to where Larry Hooper stands outside in the

early morning sun, smoking a cigar and drinking coffee.

He turns and notices Lyn, raises his cup, smiles. Lyn

looks troubled. Bob suddenly leans into Lyn.

Lyn turns to Bob puzzled.

Lyn tries to puzzle this out but is distracted by Larry

outside who seems to have noticed something in the sand

at his feet - a small insect of some kind. He begins to

watch it with strange fascination. After a moment he

sinks to his knees in order to get a better look at it.

One of the SOLDIERS notices and starts to laugh softly.

His neighbor looks at him as if he's crazy then begins to

laugh himself. Lyn looks around him, sensing the strange

atmosphere creeping through the room.

Lyn turns to stare at him.

Bob turns to stare at him.

Bob stares at him, aghast.

He pours himself another coffee.

Through the window we see Larry get on his belly to get a

better look at the bug.

The DJ SOLDIER has gone off script. A PRODUCER is trying

ineffectually to pull him away from the desk.

The Producer pulls and releases the DJ's headphones so

they slap against his head and starts giggling.

He hits a button.

CLOSE on a LOUDSPEAKER - blasting a period song out over

the base. We BOOM down to where two SOLDIERS are dancing,

tripping.

ALL OVER THE BASE

Soldiers are wandering around, talking, some falling to

their knees, weak with laughter. Some stand alone,

staring with a beatific smile at the sky.

As the music plays on a STRYKER ARMORED VEHICLE drives

around the corner of a building, a SOLDIER standing up,

arms raised, in the gun turret.

The Stryker screeches into a clumsy skid, the Soldier

having to hang on. The Stryker roars off again, heading

straight for the GATES of the base.

The Stryker veers left and smashes through the perimeter

fence and out into the desert.

The DJ and the Producer are wrestling over the sound

desk, laughing.

Bob and Bill walk towards the cell block.

An IRAQI PRISONER looks up startled as the door to the

cell is flung open and Bill stands, filling the doorway,

bare-chested, wild-eyed and wild-haired.

Lyn slides open the door to the shed and begins to shoo

the goats out into the light.

As the music continues Bob, Lyn and Bill appear leading a

column of nervous IRAQI PRISONERS out of the building,

towards the gates. Lyn and Bill are holding BABY GOATS in

their ARMS. A tripping Bob is holding bunches of flowers -

it's as close as they can get to the illustration from

the New Earth Army Manual. Lyn holds up a hand to stop

the procession.

Larry stands in front of them, a GUN in his hand, his

face blank.

Lyn and Larry stare at each other. Then, unexpectedly,

Larry starts to cry.

Larry starts to raise the gun to his mouth. Pauses.

Scratches his head.

He wanders off.

Over the loud-speakers we hear the opening of a period

song.

Bob and Lyn stand at one side, Bill at the other,

beckoning the prisoners through, hugging the prisoners as

they pass through.

One by one the Iraqis walk out through the broken fence,

staring around them suspiciously, expecting a trap.

Nothing happens, no one shoots them.

The Iraqis start to hurry away over the sand.

Beyond them we can the Stryker, driving in circles in the

desert, a NAKED SOLDIER stands whooping on top.

Bob, tripping heavily, is staring with fascination at the

sand trickling through his fingers. Suddenly we hear the

building whine of the HELICOPTER engine starting up. Bob

looks up, puzzled.

Bill and Lyn sit in the chopper, Bill at the controls.

Lyn is holding the flowers.

Bob appears, hurrying over.

The helicopter begins to rise. Bob stands swaying,

staring up. Lyn smiles sadly through the window, raises

his hand.

The Helicopter RISES - HIGHER AND HIGHER. Bob waves

goodbye.

As the helicopter flies off into the blue.

The helicopter disappears altogether.

WEEKS LATER. Bob sits typing, frowning with

concentration.

Bob sits in his car staring at his old home, across the

road. Through the window we can see Bob's ex-wife Debora,

eating dinner with Bob's ex-Editor - Dave.

Bob sits watching a Today style show on TV.

ON TV

Bob watches, ashen.

Bob is working for another small town newspaper. He sits

at his desk, staring fixedly ahead at the wall.

Bob stands up. He starts to walk down the office, his

face set with grim determination.

Bob quickens his pace.

Bob is running.

Bob rushes towards the WALL. Just as he is about to hit

it we FREEZE FRAME. We hear the opening of a period song.

