OVER BLACK WE SEE OPENING CREDITS

VIDEO IMAGE

President Bush in the Oval Office delivering an address to

the American people.

BLACK

EXT. DESERT - DAY

From a distance we see a Humvee sitting alone in the middle

of a huge, empty desert.  Just the Humvee, nothing else for

miles.  We hear the sound of a man making machine gun-like

noises.

CU - HUMVEE

There are three soldiers at the Humvee.  Second Lieutenant

JOHN EPPS,                   who sweeps the horizon with a

pair of binoculars.  PFC WES HAMMOND, who is behind the wheel

looking very bored, and PFC MARK JAEGER, who is at the

Humvee's thirty caliber machine gun, making the noises and

shooting at phantom troops.  When Jaeger talks it's with all

the swagger of a B-movie hero.

Jaeger goes right back to playing soldier.

Epps points in the opposite direction that Jaeger was

'firing.'

With his binoculars Epps looks in the direction Jaeger was

shooting.

As they pack up and get ready to roll on Jaeger says almost

to himself:

EXT. STREET BAZAAR - EVENING

The bazaar is loud and colorful, a cacophony of Arabic fills

the air.  The bazaar is filled with vendors actively selling

their wares to each passerby, literally shoving them in the

faces of prospective customers.

Epps, Wes and Jaeger walk along side by side looking almost

like the Three Musketeers, except that Wes is droning on.

Jaeger lifts his leg and purposefully points the bottom of

his foot at a vendor.

(Wes slaps Jaeger's leg down.)

As Epps and Wes walk on Jaeger notices something on a

VENDOR'S table.  It is a small, square box - slightly larger

than a man's palm - fashioned of wood and metal.  It is not

particularly ornate, but eye catching in its own way.  The

instant Jaeger picks it up and begins to look it over the

Vendor is giving him the hard sell in Arabic.  Jaeger holds

the box up to the vendor.

All he gets is more Arabic.  Jaeger calls over to Wes.

Wes comes back over to Jaeger.

Wes looks over the box carefully.

Wes says something to the vendor in Arabic.  The Vendor

answers back.

Decisively, without even haggling about price, Jaeger whips

out some money and pays the vendor for the box.

The three men walk on, Jaeger starting to work on the puzzle box.

INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT

It's filled with young soldiers messing around, playing

cards, listening to music, whatever.  Jaeger lays on a bunk

holding the puzzle box, probing it with his fingers, trying

to find a way to make it open.

Wes crosses over.

Wes watches Jaeger work the box for a beat.

Jaeger, frustrated, finally looks up from his box.

Jaeger goes back to his box.  Wes stands over him for a beat

longer, then:

Wes lingers over Jaeger for a few more beats, then walks off as we:

BLACK

VIDEO IMAGE

President Bush in the Oval office addressing the Nation.

BLACK

EXT. DESERT - DAY

From a distance we see a Humvee sitting alone in the middle

of a huge, empty desert.  Just the Humvee, nothing else for

miles.  We hear the sound of a man making machine gun-like

noises.

CU - HUMVEE

It's like the opening scene all over again.  Jaeger is at the

machine gun, Epps sweeps the horizon with his binoculars, and

Wes is behind the wheel.  Only difference is that Wes watches

CNN footage of the air war on a Watchman.

Jaeger gets down from the machine gun, pulls out his puzzle

box and starts to work on it again.

Startled, Epps and Wes each pull their guns and spin in

Jaeger's direction expecting to have to fire at something.

Jaeger has indeed opened the box.  We can see something

inside of it.

Wes excitedly goes over to Jaeger.

Jaeger pulls out a small tube sealed with wax.

Jaeger hesitates a beat, which heightens a bit of suspense.

All three men can't help but be drawn closer to the container.

Jaeger pokes his finger through the wax and pulls it off the

tube.  He sticks his finger back into the container and draws

out a rolled up piece of paper.

Jaeger unrolls it.

We see the paper.  Lines are drawn on it, large, crude

figures.  It's hard to make out exactly what it all is

supposed to represent.

Epps takes the paper from Jaeger and gives it a once over.

Wes takes the paper and looks it over.

Jaeger takes back the paper.  All excited like a kid on

Christmas:

Epps and Wes load up and get ready to move out.  Jaeger just

keeps staring at the map, eyes lit like candles.

INT. INTELLIGENCE ROOM - LATER

The room is filled with maps, recon photos, HUMINT reports.

They're posted on the walls with various levels of troop

strength - allied and Iraqi - indicated.  More data is

constantly flowing in, analyzed and processed.

Jaeger enters, spots WOODS - a young soldier on intel detail

- and crosses over to him.

Woods pulls out a map and hands it to Jaeger.

Woods gives Jaeger a sideways glance.

Woods starts to dig for photos.

Woods looks up at Jaeger with an expression that says:

"What?"

Woods goes back to looking, pulls some photos and hands them

to Jaeger.

Staring at the pictures like they held the secrets of the

ages Jaeger starts to exit.  Woods mumbles after him:

INT. BARRACKS - LATER

Maps and photos cover Jaeger's bunk the way autumn leaves

cover the ground.  He swings between studying the maps, and

reading from a book titled A History Of The Ottoman Empire.

Jaeger puts the book down, then slides the drawing from the

puzzle box up next to one of the recon photos.  He looks at

the mosaic he's put together, looks at it like it was having

a dialogue with him.  Dig it:  It is talking.  A voice only

Jaeger can hear.  Right now it's just a little whisper, but

the voice is getting louder.

A crossing SOLDIER, carrying a football, calls to Jaeger.

Jaeger fairly jumps as he comes out of his trance.

The soldier crosses off.  Jaeger goes back to staring at his

maps, and photos and drawings and books.  "What were you

saying?"

As it all keeps talking to him we:

BLACK

VIDEO IMAGE

Once again President Bush delivers an address.

BLACK

EXT. DESSERT - DAY

From a distance we see a Humvee sitting alone in the middle

of a huge, empty desert.  Just the Humvee, nothing else for

miles.  We hear the sound of a man making machine gun-like

noises.

CU - HUMVEE

It's our three boys again, just like we've seen them before:

Jaeger at the machine gun, Epps working his binoculars, and

Wes at the wheel watching his Watchman.

Jaeger jumps down from the machine gun pissed as all hell.

Jaeger and Epps come around to Wes' Watchman.  We see CNN

footage of some Iraqi soldiers - looking very tired, hungry

and scared - surrendering to a CNN news crew.

Jaeger tosses his hands in the air in defeat.

Jaeger bites at his lip.  He wants to say something, but

isn't quite sure how, if he should, if...  Fuck that, Jaeger.

Just say it.

Jaeger pulls out the drawing from the puzzle box.

Jaeger starts to tear at his pockets like he's trying to get

at a bee.  He pulls out his other maps, recon photos...  The

guy's a walking atlas.

Epps looks on in shock at the spectacle.

Jager holds up the puzzle box drawing to one of the maps.

Epps grabs the map from Jaeger.

Epps thinks.  He doesn't say nuthin', just thinks.  It's the

thinking that makes Wes nervous.

Epps gets a little more thinking in.  Wes sees which way this

is going.

Wes can't believe what he's hearing.  He pulls out the last

card he has to play.

Jaeger sweeps a hand across the great nothingness.

Both Jaeger and Epps close on Wes for the hard sell.

Wes buries his head in his hands.  He squeezes at it hard

like he'd rather make his brains ooze out his ears than say

what he's going to say.

Jaeger and Epps start to pack up.  To no one in particular,

and not too convincingly Wes mutters.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

To strains of Hendrix's Wait Until Tomorrow the Humvee cuts

across the desert kicking up plumes of loose sand.  It looks

more a dune buggy out for a joy ride than a military vehicle.

I/E. HUMVEE - SIMULTANEOUS

Epps drives, Jaeger rides shotgun, relaxed, feet up on the

dash.  Wes is in back with a "what the fuck did I get myself

into look on his face."  The Hendrix comes from a Walkman

hooked up to a pair of small speakers.  Basically these guys

are just kicking it.  War?  What war?  Our boys are just on a

beer run.  Maybe this wasn't such a bad idea after all.

Epps picks up a map and gives it a read.  To Jaeger he says:

Jaeger hands Epps a piece of electronic hardware no bigger

than a video box.  It's a navigational computer which can

pinpoint its location, by satellite, within meters.

Basically the ultimate compass.  Epps compares the navicom's

readout with the map.

Epps watches the navicom...watches it...

Epps punches the accelerator and the Humvee jumps forward

like a horse out of the gate.

EXT. HUMVEE - SIMULTANEOUS

The Humvee hits the dune and takes to the air.  As it arcs up

and over the desert we hear.

As gravity takes hold and brings the Hummer back to earth we:

EXT. HUMVEE - LATER

Epps is still taking it for a joy ride.  Wes is still getting

sick.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

The Hummer hits yet another dune and takes flight.

I/E. HUMVEE - SIMULTANEOUS

The occupants jostle as the Hummer touches down.  Epps and

Jaeger laugh and high five.  Wes is content just to go on

looking sick.

Epps turns to Jaeger.  There's just the slightest, slightest

hint of edge brushed across his tone.

Jaeger and Epps look out the front windshield.  A plume of

sand rises up from the desert several hundred meters before

them.  So engrossed in their discussion previously they

hadn't even noticed until Wes pointed it out.

Epps reaches over and kills the tape player.  A loud quiet

comes with it.  All three men just stare at the plume as it

drifts closer.  Finally:

Jaeger scrambles up the binoculars, and stares off into the

distance.  Epps and Wes wait...they wait...

Epps thinks.  Thinking's not good enough for Wes.

Epps is right.  Jaeger and Wes know it.  They shut up and

ride.  Dig that tension:  Wes sweating, Epps giving the wheel

a white knuckle grip.  Jaeger reaches down and readies his M-

16.  When he chambers it, it sounds like thunder cracking.

The plume draws closer and closer until it's not just a

plume, but two dots.  Then it's two jeep-like vehicles.  Next

we can even make out the passengers.

That doesn't do much to relax our boys.

Us, the Iraqis, we're almost on top of each other now.  The

vehicles are going to pass within feet.  Epps throws in one

more thing:

All three throw up some weak, forced waves.  THE VEHICLES

PASS.  Look at that:  The Iraqis are waving back.  And that's

all they're doing, just waving.

Our boys break out into cheers.

They all have a good laugh, but Wes brings that to a crashing

halt.  Looking back at the Iraqis, in a voice dead with fear:

Epps and Jaeger look behind them.

The two Iraqi vehicles have stopped, they've turned, and now

they're racing towards our boys.  Epps momentarily freezes.

Jaeger helps him right out of it.

Epps punches it, and the Hummer takes off.  The Iraqis are

right behind them.

The vehicles all do same hard driving:  They twist and turn

like wild snakes over the loose sand; hit dunes, take

flight... It's the open desert, and our boys have nowhere to

hide.

Inside the Hummer it's a rough, rough ride.  Our boys are

thrown violently about the cabin.  For Epps controlling the

Hummer is about as easy as riding a wild horse.

The Iraqis turn things up a notch and start sending gunfire

our way.  Bullets kick up around the Hummer like angry,

little bees with a hell of a sting.  Epps yells at Jaeger.

Now it's Jaeger who's freezes.  Epps returns the favor.

Jaeger climbs back to the Humvee's machine gun, works the

action and starts firing.  Unlike before when he was playing,

the real thing is much wilder.  The Humvee bounces around

like a cork in the ocean.  Taking aim is nearly impossible.

The best Jaeger can do is squeeze off rounds in the Iraqis'

general direction.

All Wes can do is cover his head, and stay down like a scared

little girl.

It's like a dog fight in the dirt.  The vehicles weave,

cut... One of the Iraqis starts to cut across Jaeger's firing

line.  Jaeger swings the machine gun around hard and lets

loose.  A hail of bullets rips into the Iraqi vehicle just

above wheel level.  It kicks the vehicle up and back,

whipping and twisting it horribly in the air time after time,

then smashing it back into the ground.

Jaeger is beside himself.

As if in answer the remaining Iraqi vehicle's gunner tears

off a salvo that eats up the space right around Jaeger.  He's

not hit, but it kicks him back down into the Humvee screaming

with fear.

The boys are running out of options, and Epps knows it.

No good. Wes is too scared to move.  Epps reaches back and

literally pulls him up and over into the front.

With little finesse Wes takes the wheel as Epps slides over.

Epps takes up an M-16 with a grenade launcher.  He loads it

up, and readies the weapon.  Crawling to the back he takes

aim.

Wes does his best to give a level ride, but the Iraqi bullets

coming at them don't help much.

Epps zeroes in on the target.  He takes aim and starts to

squeeze back on the trigger.  He almost has a shot off when

Wes hits a dune rocking the Hummer violently.  Epps loses the

target.

Epps tries to take aim again.  Careful aim.  One shot is all

he gets.  The bullets keep coming, but he's in no hurry.

Waiting...waiting...  The Iraqis are only getting closer.

Waiting...

Closer...

EPPS FIRES!  The grenade rips from the launcher, riding a

trail of white smoke, and slams into the Iraqis.  You know

the story:  Huge explosion, car parts flying a hundred feet

into the air, bodies whipping through space, stuff Bob Dole

would hate.  But maybe he would like it.  They were just

Iraqis.

Wes brings the Hummer to a halt.  A spastic, scared, relieved

laugh escapes him.  Jaeger, checking himself for wounds, and

Epps, M-16 still in hand, get out.  Epps makes his way to the

wreckage, sweeping it with his rifle ready to blast any

survivors.  Yeah, like somebody's walking away from that

bang.

Wes finally makes his way over to the others who stand and

stare at the burning hulk of whatever it was.

Nobody says anything.  This really scares Wes.

Jaeger starts to cross back to the Hummer.  Wes gives him

something to take with him.

Jaeger goes leaving Epps and Wes all by their lonesome.  Wes

turns to Epps.

With a flip of his head Epps indicates the dead Iraqis.

Wes starts to get it.  It really doesn't matter what he has

to say.

Epps has got nothing to say to the truth.  He turns and

starts to walk to the Hummer.

Like a whip Epps snaps around.  He grabs up Wes and pulls him

close.

Almost as an afterthought Epps realizes he's got Wes, and

lets him go.  Gently he puts it:

Nobody's got anytbing to say to that, so they say nothing.

Epps heads back to the Hummer.  A beat later Wes follows.

Jaeger is already behind the wheel.  Epps rides shotgun this

time.  Once again Wes is in back.  To Jaeger, Epps ask:

Jaeger fires it up, and pulls out.  As they head off we:

BLACK

I/E. HUMVEE - LATER

The sun beats down violently as the Hummer rolls along.

Epps, Jaeger and Wes all ride along in an angry silence.

Jaeger starts to smile.  He chuckles to himself.  Epps,

looking for anything to break the tension smiles a bit

himself.

Epps joins in cackling like a Hyena.

He turns back to Wes.

In spite of himself Wes gives a little smile.

Singing to Levert:

Jaeger joins in.

Epps starts to slow down.

A nervous look punches it way onto Jaeger's face.  Epps

stops.  He and Wes jump out of the Hummer and go around back

to the reserve tanks.

Jaeger stays in the vehicle looking all tense.  After a beat

Epps screams for him.

Time to face the music.  Jaeger hauls himself out of the

Hummer and goes around to Epps who's got a look on his face

like he's just had a spoonful of steaming shit.  He points

angrily at one of the reserve tanks.

Wes gets a slow boil on.

Wes lunges for Jaeger, but doesn't have the speed or the

skills.  Jaeger counters, and sinks a fist into Wes' jaw.

Wes goes down, but he manages to take Jaeger to the sand with

him.  They start to scrape, but it's obvious Jaeger has got

the upper hand.

Epps reaches down and yanks Jaeger off of Wes.

Jaeger comes up to his feet.  Wes wipes some blood from his

lips.  He looks down at his bloodied hand, then sneers at

Jaeger.

Jaeger throws his arms wide to the empty desert.

Wes has had enough.

Jaeger dangles the keys to the Humvee from a finger.

Wes burns a hole through Jaeger's head with his eyes.  Epps

steps to him.

Wes burns on a bit more, then turns and heads for the Hummer.

Jaeger watches him go, then smiles to himself.

Epps gets up in Jaeger's face.  The menace he projects is

very real.

Jaeger just stands there, his fear swelling.

Epps storms over towards the Hummer leaving Jaeger to be all

scared with himself.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

A long line of footprints works their way through the sand up

to Epps, Jaeger, and Wes.  Epps and Wes trek side by side.

Jaeger is behind them, having trouble keeping up.  Between

pants he gasps:

Jaeger struggles on just a bit more, then:

Jaeger lets himself drop down into the sand.  He looks up.

Epps and Wes are still walking.

Wes looks back at Jaeger sitting on the ground sucking on his

water.

Epps shrugs, like hitting Jaeger wasn't much of anything.

Again Epps looks behind him as Jaeger struggles to his feet

and stumbles after his two comrades.

Epps gives a little laugh like he's just heard a mildly

amusing punchline.

All this talk starts to creep out Epps a little.

Wes smiles a little smile.

They walk on.

Jaeger works to catch up, muttering to himself as he goes.

As Jaeger steps down be hears an audible clicking sound come

from under his boot.  He goes dead still.  Panic races up and

down his spine.  In almost a whisper be says:

Again, louder:

Like he couldn't be more annoyed Epps turns around.

Epps isn't sure of what he's heard.

Epps doesn't say anything, he just keeps on staring.  Scared,

angry they don't get it:

Epps and Wes look at each other, then back to Jaeger.  Like

he's got no time to mess around:

Jaeger loses it.

Just plain sick of all this, Epps and Wes trudge back over to Jaeger.

Epps pulls a knife from his belt.  He sinks to the ground and

probes the sand under Jaeger's foot.  Nothing...nothing...

WE HEAR THE SOUND OF METAL AGAINST METAL.  Epps goes white.

For a second he doesn't move.  Tension falls like a steel

curtain.  Slow, careful, Epps withdraws the blade and stands.

Jaeger reads the expression on Epps' face.

Epps goes to Wes.  The two start to move away from Jaeger.

Epps and Wes move over and huddle.

Behind them, pathetically, Jaeger cries:

Epps' eyes narrow.  He doesn't want to hear this kind of

talk.

Epps thinks, and thinks hard.

Epps crosses back over to Jaeger.

Wes crosses over with climbing rope.  Very, very gently Epps

wraps the middle of the rope around Jaeger's waist leaving

several feet dangling off each end.

Not too convincingly:

Ignoring the question:

Epps and Wes pick up separate ends of the rope, and take up

positions behind Jaeger.  Epps waits a beat, afraid of what

might happen, but there is no choice.  He digs in ready to

take off running.  Wes whispers to him:

Ignoring him:

Epps takes a couple of deep breaths, holds one:

Wes and Epps are off the the races, churning up sand as they

race away from Jaeger.  They scream like banshees as if to

draw strength.

Jaeger does a little chant:

The rope goes taught.  Jaeger's body jerks violently backward

as he gets the air punched out of him.  As his feet leave the

ground the mine detonates.

POV - JAEGER

A fireball blossoms, and eats up the air towards the camera

as THE CAMERA ITSELF RUSHES AWAY from the belching fire and

smoke.

JAEGER

His feet just clear the outer edge of the fireball, but still

get licked and burned by flames before he slams to the ground

several feet from the explosion.

Epps runs to Jaeger.  Wes takes a casual stroll back over.

All casual like, Wes says:

EXT. DESERT - LATER

We see a set of three very odd tracks across the ground.  It

looks like something has been dragged through the sand.  THE

CAMERA FOLLOWS THE TRACKS TO EPPS, WES AND JAEGER who crawl

on their bellies.  They thrust knifes into the sand before

them searching for mines.  We get the feeling they've been at

this for awhile.

Wes stands and starts to walk.  Epps waits a beat and follows

suit.  Only Jaeger stays down.

Jaeger stays down, afraid to get up.

After a beat Jaeger stands and hands over the map from the

puzzle box and a recon photo.  Epps compares the two, then

takes out the navicom.

Epps points at a black dot on the puzzle box map with a

smaller white dot in the middle.

Epps starts to pack away the map.  Real plain Jaeger says:

Epps stops, like he almost not sure what Jaeger is talking

about.  Jaeger extends a hand.

Epps gets it.  He hands the map back to Jaeger who tucks it

away.  Our boys walk on.

Epps stops dead in his tracks.

They all go quiet. Epps cocks an ear to the air and listens.

They all listen.  Wind, but that's about it.

Again they listen.  Again they hear wind.  Then, there it is;

the sound Epps is looking for:  A pop, like a big balloon

being burst just over the next rise.

Quick like that Jaeger grabs his M-16 down off his shoulder

and is about to ready it when Epps slaps down the muzzle.

Epps thinks.  Yeah, what the hell is it?

EXT. DESERT - RISE

Epps, Jaeger, and Wes edge carefully up to the lip of the

rise on their bellies.  They're barely visible against the

sand.  Epps takes out a pair of binoculars and zeros in on

the ground below.

POV - EPPS

THROUGH BINOCULAR LENSES we see a SHI'ITE CAMP:  A tent city

really.  There are several uniformed IRAQI SOLDIERS who are

roughing up the Shi'ite men.

EPPS, WES, JAEGER

Epps hands the binoculars over to Jaeger.  Who looks down at

the scene on the ground.

Jaeger hands the binoculars to Wes.

POV - WES

AGAIN WE SEE THROUGH THE BINOCULAR LENSES.  One of the Iraqi

soldiers is pushing around a Shi'ite, having a good laugh

about it, then casual as rain pulls out a gun and gives him a

bullet, gift wrapped, straight to the brain.

EPPS, WES, JAEGER

Epps thinks, then shakes his head.

There's a big, loud quiet as our boys just hang there.  From

down below comes another balloon burst; another gun shot.

Epps lowers his head.  He wants to fight, but it's like he

said:  There's nothing they can do.  Epps slides back away

from the rise, then Jaeger, and finally Wes disappears back

the way they came.

EXT. DESERT/MOUNTAINS - LATER

It's the kind of red rock and mesas one would expect to find

in a desert; not too steep or rough, but it looks as though

they will definitely takes more than a little physical

exertion to navigate.

Epps, Wes, and Jaeger approach a path at the mesa's base.

Jaeger takes out his maps and looks them over.

Epps takes a long gander up towards the top of the mesa.

They ready their packs and weapons, then start up the mesa.

Our boys trekking along the pass.  They push onward and

upward.

The pass has narrowed, and become more treacherous:  The

rocks are loose and the footing unsure.  The going has slowed

considerably as each man must be extremely careful of their

steps.

Our boys stop.  The pass has seemingly came to an end.  For a

short ways the face of the mesa is almost sheer.  The three

soldiers take it in.

They all take a good look at what little there is to cross

on, and how far down it is to the hard, jagged rocks below.

Epps and Wes edge their way towards what's left of the pass.

Jaeger just stands there staring down.  Way down.

Epps, Wes and Jaeger inch along the pass hugging the face of

the mesa.  Small rocks churn beneath their feet and tumble to

the ground below.  No man says a word, they're too busy

trying to keep alive, and the air is filled with the sounds

of labored breathing.

Each step so very careful:  Testing the pass for purchase,

making sure the footing is solid.  They inch one foot

forward, then slide over the next.  Their hands probe the

cliff face, fingers crawling like spider legs, looking for

something, anything, to take hold of.

Sweat drips into Epps eye.  He blinks hard and fast trying to

clear his vision.  Right now he can't really afford

distractions.

Slowly, carefully, inch by inch the little death dance goes

on.

Jaeger steps.  He steps wrong.  The pass gives way under his

foot and begins to slide down.  Instinctively Wes rockets out

an arm grabbing Jaeger by the uniform.  At first Jaeger

smiles, glad for the save.  But then he realizes something:

Wes is literally holding his life in his hands.  All Wes has

to do is loosen his grip, and...

The color drains from Jaeger's face.  Wes stares back blank

as a bowl of water.

Eternity goes on for a second.

Finally Wes yanks Jaeger back up against the mesa's face,

then slides on.  Jaeger just hangs where he is for a beat

clutching the rocks for dear life.

Epps makes it to the far side of the broken pass.  He holds

out a hand to Wes and reels him in.  Together they both help

bring in Jaeger.  Wes looks back over the path they've just

crossed.

Jaeger hands the map to Epps who gives it a going over.  THEY

WALK AS THEY TALK.

Our boys step past a grouping of rocks.  They stop dead.

Sitting before them, in what looks like a small camp, is FIVE

IRAQI SOLDIERS.  Time clicks by real slow for an instant.

It's a delayed reaction, like the beat it takes after you

pick up a hot pan before you realize that, yeah, it is

burning the flesh from your hand.

Our three soldiers turn and bolt back the way they came.

They run like wild rabbits for a bit, jumping over a rock

formation and hitting the deck using the rocks as cover.

Like well-trained warriors they peel their weapons from their

shoulders, lock and load, and stand ready.  They wait a bit,

taking several deep breaths like divers about to go under.

Finally Epps gives the order.

Simultaneously they spring up from behind the rocks and bear

down on the Iraqis with their M-16s ready to blow them to

kingdom come.

One problem:  No Iraqis.

For a beat our three don't move.  They hold position, breath

coming hard like sprinters at the end of a race.  They're

eyes flint back and forth scanning for something...anything.

There's nothing.

M-16 still at the ready, Epps raises up taking a tactical

stance.  He inches forward, sweeping his weapon back and

forth before him for any potential target.  There is none.

The Iraqis have vanished.  Epps lowers the M-16, but does not

shoulder it.

Wes and Jaeger come up from their cover and cross to Epps.

They keep their weapons ready.  Eerily they all look around

as if trying to spot ghosts.

There is a sound; a steady swooshing that starts faint and

grows closer like a rolling thunder.  Our three start looking

around, turning where they stand, trying to find the source

of the sound as it rises to a near deafening pitch.  There's

nothing.  They see nothing.  Still the sound races closer and

closer.  Epps, Jaeger and Wes raise up their weapons in

preparation to defend themselves against this unseen beast.

From below the edge of the mesa a HELICOPTER GUNSHIP -

probably a MIL MI-24 HIND-D ARMED ASSAULT HELICOPTER if you

want to be technical - raises up very dramatically into

sight.  It hangs in the air ominously before our soldiers.

On board are the vanished Iraqis wearing nasty grins.  The

PILOT brings the gunship about and levels her massive machine

cannons at our boys.

Wes and Jaeger don't have to be told twice.  They bolt from

their spots, and not an instant too soon.  The GUNNER lets

fly a barrage of shells that literally tear up the ground

where our boys were just standing.  We see what the chopter's

weapons will do to rock.  We can imagine what they would do

to flesh.

Epps, Jaeger and Wes take cover behind some rocks.  The

gunship swings around, picks up speed and bears down on them.

More shells fired.  They punch into and through the rocks our

boys use for cover.  Again the three scatter, and just in

time as the shells rip their way through the rock.

Our three go sliding down an embankment, crouching low.

Their heads whip around looking for the gunship.

In answer to Jaeger's question the gunship comes swooping up

behind them like a bird of prey.  Our three have all of about

a second to get running before the Iraqis send more shells

their way.  They kick up chunks of rock as they ping, ping,

ping around Epps, Wes and Jaeger who make a wild, evasive

run.

Dig it:  Up ahead is a narrow passage through rock face.

They race for it, hurl themselves into it as the gunship

sends a special delivery of white-hot metal their way.

Once inside the passage they have a bit of breathing space.

It's too narrow for the gunship to get a good shot through.

Our three press themselves up against the rock walls and suck

air.

Beyond the opening to the passage the gunship swings back and

forth like a junkyard dog patrolling its kingdom.

Jaeger's worked up a real scare.

Wes watches the gunship as it seemingly settles in the air.

It floats very steady as if...  Wes' eyes key in on

something:  The gunship's missile pods rotating slightly,

coming in line... Wes' eyes go wide like someone just jammed

an electric cattle prod in his ass.

Epps, Wes and Jaeger sprint for the opening at the far end of

the passage as a missile rockets from the gunship's pod.

With a wild whine it rides the wind like a deadly arrow

straight into the passage.  Slamming into the ground it

sprouts a terrific fireball that rides on a massive

explosion.  It races through the passage, lifts our boys from

the ground and tosses them out into the open like they were

nothing more than discarded ragdolls.

Jaeger takes cover and cowers.  He puts his panic into

overdrive.

Wes pulls his rifle.  Grunting like an animal he sprays

bullets at the chopter, but it's like throwing snowballs at

an elephant.  The gunship turns on Wes and fires in his

direction.  It doesn't hit him, but it sends him running.

Epps has had enough of this shit.  He scrambles to load a

grenade in his launcher as the gunship comes about.  It races

for him, cannons at the ready.  This one is going to be

close.  Epps locks and loads just as the chopter swings down

on him.  Epps fires, but the gunship simply jukes up and away

from the grenade the way someone might step over a bug.  The

grenade impacts the rock face behind the chopter exploding

harmlessly.  The chopter returns the favor by reining down a

hail of shells that kicks Epps back FLIPPING HIM UP AND OVER

the edge of the plateau.  His M-16 goes flying, smashing into

the ground far below.  Epps manages to grab hold of the

plateau lip with one hand.  It swings him around, slamming

him hard against the cliff face.  He hangs there, suspended by

his weakening grip, far above the ground.

Jaeger and Wes run to him, grabbing him by his arm.  They

pull and pull hard until Epps can get some kind of purchase,

and crawl his way back up to the plateau.

At the same time the gunship lowers itself so that it hovers

above and beyond our three.  It rotates so that the bay doors

are facing Epps, Wes and Jaeger.  Three Iraqis are inside,

weapons trained on our targets.  One of them yells something.

Wes translates.

The three share a nervous look.  Epps fairly growls:

Jaeger and Wes watch as, shielded by their bodies, Epps palms

a grenade from his belt.  Wes and Jaeger don't quite smile,

but they know now they at least have a chance.  As Epps

stands the other two turn to face the Iraqis.  They all fold

their hands behind their necks which, for Epps, hides the

grenade from view.  Slowly they walk towards the gunship.

One of the Iraqis starts to yell something.  He lifts his

weapon and aims it at our boys.  With his thumb Epps yanks

the pin from the grenade and lets fly.  It's a perfect toss,

landing in the chopter's bay.  The Iraqis see the grenade

land, they scramble for it.  One of them grabs it up and is

about to throw it back out of the gunship.

Too late.

The grenade explodes in the Iraqi's hand killing him

instantly.  It also touches off a fire ball that severely

damages the gunship.  It rocks, lists, spins wildly out of

control.

Our three hug the ground as the chopter's rotors go whipping

through the air like throwing knifes landing perilously among

them.  Worse still the gunship, now a lame bird, drops from

the sky towards Epps, Jaeger and Wes.  All they can do is

cover their heads, as if that would do any good against two

tons of crashing steel.  The chopter rushes down...down, but

it just misses them.  It slams into the ground skipping over

the edge of the plateau, to the rocks below.

Our three pick themselves up.  They walk to the edge of the

plateau and look down on the crash.

Jaeger, scared painted all over his face, sinks to his knees

and looks as if he's about to go into shock.

Wes looks down at Jaeger with a bit of a disdainful sneer.

They stare for awhile, then one by one move off.  Us?  We:

BLACK

EXT. DESERT/MESA - LATER

Epps, Wes and Jaeger trek to a large crevice that runs

straight down into the ground.  Jaeger takes out his maps and

photos.  Epps consults the navicom.

Epps tucks the navicom away on his belt and takes a look

around.  Not much to see.

Wes pulls a lantern/flashlight from his pack.  Going to his

belly he shines it down into the crevice.

He tosses a rock into it.  We can hear it hit the ground below.

WE SEE A FEW QUICK SHOTS of Wes securing a line down into the

crevice, Epps and Jaeger clipping on rapeling harnesses, the

two men lowering themselves down into the great unknown.

INT. CREVICES - CONTINUOUS

The lantern punches a hole through the darkness as Epps uses

it like a machete to blaze a trial.  He sinks down...down

until finally they touch bottom.  He unclips himself from the

rope and Jaeger starts down.

The space isn't that big, like a small cave really.  It's

tight enough that the lantern pretty well lights up the whole

of it.  But it's big enough that one wouldn't have any idea

where to start digging.

Jaeger makes it to the bottom.  Wes yells down.

More to himself:

Epps takes a look around, then shrugs.

Epps breaks out his utility shovel from his pack.  Jaeger

follows suit.  He looks around, picks a spot and starts

digging.

WES - LATER

He sits up top, weapon in hand, standing guard.

EPPS AND JAEGER - LATER

They dig furiously at sperate ends of the cave.  They dig

with a determination to find something.

WES - LATER

Still up top, he's given up on standing guard.  Now he

stretches out on the ground sunning himself.

EPPS AND JAEGER

Their shirts are off, and they're caked with sweat and dirt.

They look like they've been digging for quite some time.

They certainly don't have the same enthusiasm they displayed

previously.  Now they just seem to dig by rote.

WES - LATER

The sun has begun to sink noticeably.  Wes leans over the

crevice.

EPPS AND JAEGER - SIMULTANEOUS

It's obvious these guys have been digging for hours and come

up with nothing.  Epps keeps digging, but just barely.

Jaeger doesn't even bother anymore.  He just sits on the

ground sulking.

WES

He rolls over and scoffs.

EPPS AND JAEGER

Epps notices Jaeger just sitting there.

Sounding defeated as all hell, and very whiney:

Epps spins.  Like a bolt of lightning he's on Jaeger,

grabbing him up and pulling him close.

Epps pushes Jaeger back and he goes down to the ground hard.

A fire burns inside him.  A fire that burns out of control.

Before he even knows what he's doing Jaeger springs to his

feet, shovel in hand, bringing it down in a long arc for

Epps' head.

Epps bears him coming.  He deftly side steps the blow, grabs

hold of Jaeger and forces him down.  They roll around

violently like wild dogs trading blows and trying to work the

other into a choke hold.

WES

He can hear the sounds of the struggle and yells down.

EPPS AND JAEGER

They fight on; down and dirty.  Locked together they roll

around the ground, each trying to get the upper hand.  They

smash into the lantern, sending the cave into near darkness.

At the same time Epps works himself on top of Jaeger.  He

lands a couple of solid punches, takes a rock from the ground

and lifts it high ready to send it crashing into Jaeger's

skull.  All Jaeger can do is steel himself for the deathblow.

Something catches Epps' eye:  A glint of light flashes across

his faces.  He stares at it; at an opening, a bare seem

really, in the side of the cave wall where light seeps

through.  The rock slips from his hand.  Forgetting all about

Jaeger Epps goes to the opening.  Jaeger himself, as if what

just happened hadn't really happened, comes up along side

Epps.

Jaeger says what they both must have guessed by now.

That's all Epps needs to hear.  He starts clawing at the

opening with his bare hands.  That gets him nothing.

Grabbing up a shovel he starts to whack at it.  Jaeger gets

the lantern working again, then picks up his shovel and joins

in.  They keep hitting and hitting, picking up a rhythm like

a southern chain gang.

The rock gives way enough for Epps to pry it free.  There's

just enough space for a man to reach his arm through.  For a

beat Epps and Jaeger just stare at the opening almost afraid

of what mayor may not be in there.

With some trepidation Epps begins to move his hand towards

the opening.  Slowly it extends closer...closer...  Just as

it moves beyond the opening. vThere is a wild, screeching

hiss as some small, hairy thing leaps for Epps.

Both Epps and Jaeger recoil, Jaeger going nuts with fear.

Jaeger grabs up his M-16 and takes aim at...whatever it is.

Too late. Jaeger squeezes off a few rounds.  A couple of

bullets hit the thing, but the rest ricochet wildly about the

cave and around Epps and Jaeger.  All the two men can do is

duck and cover - squeezing themselves into tight, fetal balls

- as the bullets scream back and forth like little chunks of

random death.

Eventually the bullets lose speed and die off.  Jaeger and

Epps raise up off the ground.  They walk to the dead thing

that jumped from the opening.

WES

Yelling down

EPPS AND JAEGER

They go back to the opening.  Epps shines a light inside to

make sure there are no more surprises, then reaches an arm

in.  Jaeger looks on with great anticipation, licking his

lips like a hungry jackal, as Epps twists his arm in the

opening.  Searching...searching...

Epps' face freezes.  He goes perfectly still for a beat, then

slowly draws his hand from the opening.  It clutches a wooden

box.  It is similar to Jaeger's puzzle box, but slightly

bigger.  The instant Epps sets the box on the ground Jaeger

smashes his shovel into it shattering the ancient wood.  From

the splinters pours a river of gold coins.  Jaeger and Epps

are too stunned to do anything but look at it.

WES

He leans over the crevice.

EPPS AND JAEGER

Incredulous himself:

Jaeger yells it at the top of his lungs:

WES

His lips flutter a bit before they land on the word

EPPS AND JAEGER

They scoop up handfuls of the coins and let them run through

their fingers.

Epps grabs up one coin and stands.

With all his strength Epps gives the coin an underhanded toss

straight up.

WES

Wes catches the coin.  He turns it over in his fingers.  He

smiles, and there's nothing pleasant about it.

JAEGER AND EPPS

Epps yells up.

A beat later an empty pack comes falling down.  Epps picks it

up and takes it over to Jaeger.  The two of them start

loading the coins into it.

Epps is just about to attach the pack of gold to the line

when Jaeger grabs his arm.

Jaeger isn't sure how to say what he's thinking.

Good point.  What is to stop him?

A tense moment passes.

Another moment, then:

Jaeger goes over to the line and hooks himself on.  He's just

about ready to climb up when Epps stops him.  Serious as a

heart attack he says:

Jaeger stares at Epps for a beat, then laughs himself a

little laugh.  He yells up:

Jaeger starts to climb as Wes helps out by pulling on the

rope.

Epps watches him for a bit, then looks at the pack of gold

and the rest of the equipment.  Suddenly he scurries about

gathering up all the things they've brought down.

Jaeger continues his climb, disappearing up into the crevice.

A few beats later the rope comes snaking back down from,

above.  Epps brings over the pack of gold and attaches it to

the rope.  Yelling up:

The rope goes taught, slowly drawing the pack up, up into the

crevice finally to be swallowed from view.

Epps waits for the rope to come back down.  He waits.  He

waits a beat more.  No rope.

He tries to keep the apprehension from his voice, but it

creeps in anyway.  He tries it again.

Still more nothing.  What's that sound?  It's Epps' breath

getting heavier and faster.

Nothing.  Then something.  The rope snakes its way back down.

Epps can't help but let go of a little laugh, like a guy

who's just been given a scare by his own shadow.  Taking up

his own pack Epps hooks up, then starts the climb to the top.

JAEGER AND WES

They work the rope, helping Epps up.  He gets to the lip of

the crevice, and pulls himself over.  He's breathing hard,

and lets his pack slide to the ground.  Trying not to sound

too rattled.

Throwing Epps' own words back at him:

Epps lets this go.

Epps sees trouble coming, and deals with it the only way he

knows how.  Casually he turns from Wes as if he's about to

let things go.  Suddenly he spins back around throwing a

punch to Wes' jaw that sends him to the ground.

Wes puts a hand to his mouth.  It comes back stained red.

Wes goes on the boil.

Jaeger wastes no time jumping in.

Wes, still on the ground, fumes.

Wes thinks about it, but that's all he does.  He's not ready

to cross that line yet.

Epps takes up his pack and moves off to bed down.  Jaeger

does the same.  Wes just lays on the ground...and bleeds.

BLACK

EXT. MESA - EARLY MORNING

The first light of day barely begins to fight its way through

the dark.  Our boys sleep in a circle around the pack filled

with gold.  Surprisingly they seem to sleep pretty well, but

then the last twenty-four hours has taken a lot out of them.

There is a slight sound: Rocks crunching underneath a foot.

Someone stirs, someone moves.  It's hard to tell who it is in

this bad light.  They creep towards the pack, inching their

way closer and closer.  They reach out a hand, just about to

grab the pack.

Wes, who obviously wasn't asleep at all, lunges for the

person, and takes them down hard.  There's the ugly crunch of

body against stone as they hit the ground.  M-16 in hand Wes

straddles the intruder pressing the muzzle of the rifle

against his head.

Underneath him, an IRAQI SOLDIER - who already looks very

badly injured; bloody, cut, slightly burned - babbles back in

high pitched and frightened Arabic.

This is enough to wake Jaeger and Epps.

Epps reaches down and physically pulls Wes from the soldier

who still rattles on.

The soldier goes on babbling.  Wes has had just about enough

of that.  He gives the soldier a kick to the ribs.

Epps gives Wes a hard push.

Even now, frightened but more calmly, the soldier goes on.

Wes listens, but with disdain.  He translates:

The soldier goes on, and so does Wes.

Wes asks him the question in Arabic and gets an answer.  It's

enough to give Wes a bit of a laugh.

Jaeger gets his water and gives some to the soldier.

Jaeger and Epps start to go for their gear.  Wes is still on

the Iraqi soldier.

Epps gives an expression that screams:  What the hell are you

talking about?

By way of answering Wes lifts his M-16 and works the action.

The discussion starts to get real heated.

Jaeger goes somewhere near panic.

The Iraqi may not speak the language, but he's got a pretty

good idea what they are arguing about.  He starts to plead

for his life

The Iraqis begging goes into over drive.  Jaeger just about

loses it.

Wes yells down at the Iraqi.

Wes moves menacingly for the Iraqi.  He thrusts his M-16

forward.  Epps grabs it, and throws a punch.  Unlike before

with Jaeger, this time Wes ducks the blow and swings the butt

of the M-16 back at Epps.  It's not much of a blow though,

and Epps keeps on coming.  He barrels into Wes and takes him

down.

As the two men tussle the Iraqi sees his chance to get away.

He springs up, knocking Jaeger to the side, and bolts past

him.

Epps turns and sees this.  Maybe he's not for killing this

guy, but he certainly can't just let him get away.  He takes

off running after the Iraqi, Jaeger a step behind.

The Iraqi, face flush with fear; eyes filled with terror like

a hunted animal, makes it to the rock face and starts to

climb to the plateau above.  He knows if he can make it he at

least has a chance of getting away.  It shows in the

desperation he climbs with.

Epps and Jaeger are right behind him.  They claw at the

rocks, but can't gain ground.

The Iraqi gets closer and closer to the plateau; to freedom.

Our two soldiers scramble up right behind him.

The Iraqi gets a hand on the lip of the plateau.  He's just

about to pull himself up.  He's just about to get away--

WE HEAR A SHORT BURST OF GUNFIRE.  Three large, bloody holes

mushroom open in the Iraqi's back.

WES

He stands, smoke curling from the muzzle of his M-16 like a

white snake, having just send the Iraqi some bullets special

delivery.

THE IRAQI

He arches, stiffens, then falls like a stone past Epps and

Jaeger to the ground below like a sack of potatoes.

As the two climb down Wes goes to the body and stands over it

like the great, white hunter standing over his kill.  All

business like he says:

There's a beat of quiet, then:

He sneers down at the body.

Wes moves off.  A beat later Jaeger walks away.  Epps just

stands there looking at the body.

EXT. MESA - LATER

Wes, Epps and Jaeger are making the trek back down.  Jaeger

is shouldering the pack with the gold.  Wes has got his M-16.

Epps stops, and puts his pack down.  He takes out the navicom

and a recon photo.

Really calm, cold and direct Wes says:

Epps loads up his pack pretty much ignoring Wes.

Epps says nothing, so Wes tries it again a little harder.

He works the action of his M-16.

Real casual Epps takes a grenade from his belt and flips the

pin loose.  He stands with the grenade in one hand and the

navicom in the other.  Real calm, like he was talking about

the weather:

Epps and Wes have a stare down.  Jaeger, who's getting really

good at freaking out, jumps in.

The stare down goes on a beat longer.  Finally Wes lowers his

rifle.  He turns to Jaeger and vents what anger he can.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

THE CAMERA PANS over the vast expanse of nothingness.  SMOKE

BEGINS TO DRIFT INTO FRAME.  THE CAMERA FINALLY LANDS ON THE

SHI'ITE ENCAMPMENT, or at least what's left of it.  Tents are

torn down and burned, goods scattered.  It looks like a ghost

town.  Epps, Wes and Jaeger wander into it.  They look

around, but see no signs of life.

Wes grabs up some Shi'ite garments, white robes, and starts

to put them on.

Jaeger looks to Epps who just shrugs.  Jaeger gets some robes

and puts them on.  Epps follows suit.

They keep on moving, passing straight through the camp.  Epps

marches ahead, not wanting to even deal with the other two

men.  Wes talks after him.  Really he talks more to himself,

and he's not sounding too lucid.

Epps isn't even paying attention, he's just walking on.

Almost, as if he senses something is wrong, he stops in his

tracks.  He looks down at his feet and sees the most curious

thing.  SAND IS RUSHING AWAY FROM HIS FEET, ALMOST AS IF IT'S

GOING DOWN A DRAIN.  He looks at it with the same wonderment

that a dog watches television.

Epps has got all of about two seconds to ponder this as a

moment later the Earth literally drops from beneath his feet.

He's standing on a sink hole that opens up swallowing him in

loose sand.  Immediately he sinks to waist level.  He slows

there, but still goes down with rapidity.  He screams to

Jaeger and Wes.

Jaeger drops the gold and runs to the edge of the hole.  Wes

doesn't move.

Jaeger is paralyzed by indecision.  He doesn't want to let

Epps drown, but if he gets too close he could easily get

sucked into.  He flirts back and forth between rescue and

safety.

Sand continues to pour in on Epps.

Jaeger can't fight himself any longer.  He lowers himself

halfway into the hole, stretching spread eagle trying to keep

some kind of grip on the firmer ground, and reaches for Epps.

Their arms twist and strain for each others.  First their

fingers meet, then they grab hands.  They work a grip down to

their wrist, but that's all they can get.  Jaeger strains

like a field horse pulling Epps against the sand.  It may not

be enough as he begins to slip down himself.  Jaeger twists

his head and looks up at Wes.  Straining to say anything he

pleads:

His words fall on deaf ears.  Wes just takes a step closer to

the pack of gold coins.

This only serves to energize Jaeger.  He digs deeper within

himself finding an untapped reserve of strength.  He grunts

and pulls, the veins on his neck puffing like balloons.

Epps finds same purchase.  He pulls, swims, his way up from

the sand.  A little at first, but like hitting shallow water

he's able to lift himself up.

Jager jerks him the rest of the way up to firm ground.  They

collapse, chests heaving like pistons as they suck air.

As Epps regains strength he pats himself down.  Suddenly he

goes back into a panic.

Epps rolls back over and thrusts his hands down into the soft

sand frantically looking for the lost computer.  Jaeger joins

in.  They dig and scrape as best they can, but daring to

venture only so far into the soft sand.  It doesn't matter.

The navicom is lost.

Epps wants to say how, but he's got no idea.  Wes grows a

smug smile.

Wes casually slides out his M-16.

Wes turns and glares at Jaeger, who backs down.

Epps isn't wasting anymore time.  When Wes turns to glower at

Jaeger he lunges up for him.  Wes side steps Epps and lands

the but of his rifle into the side of Epps' head.  It opens a

wound, and sends Epps back down to the ground.

Epps looks up right into the muzzle of West M-16.  Full of

poison:

Wes is just about to squeeze back the trigger when a shot

rings out.  Wes' body jerks like he's just been hit in the

back with a truck.  The way cut timber falls he slams to the

ground motionless.

Epps and Jaeger stare at the body for a beat, then snap their

heads in the direction of the shot.

Up on a dune behind them are a group of SHI'ITES on

horseback.  One of them has a high powered rifle which he has

just used to drill Wes.  He fires another shot.  It pings to

the ground between Epps and Jaeger.

Our two remaining men scramble.  Jaeger dives for the gold

and snatches it up from the ground as bullets zip around it.

The two take off running as best they can in the sand.  They

run wildly, erratically, without looking back.  They run

until their bodies scream no more, then keep going on

inertia.  Reaching a dune they tumble down the far side and

collapse in a heap at the bottom.  They take a moment to

catch what breath they can, then:

They sit there trying to catch their breath.  As they do a

sound comes from the distance.  They freeze, ears cocked,

trying to figure out what it is.

Quickly, desperately, as the sound of the chopter draws

closer, they scan the horizon looking for it.  Jaeger spots

it and thrusts a finger in its direction.

Epps scrambles out his binoculars.  He targets the

helicopter.  Jaeger waits in high anticipation.

Epps can't make out for sure.  Jaeger asks again with growing

anxiety.

Epps takes a long, hard stare.

The instant Jaeger hears this his face twists up like he's

thinking something, and he doesn't like what it is he's

thinking.  Quietly, almost to himself:

Again Jaeger says it, this time including Epps too.

Epps finds a mirror in one of his pockets.  He stands, ready

to signal the chopter.

Epps turns sharply back to Jaeger.

Epps is back around ready to signal the helicopter.  He's

about to raise the mirror when he hears the sound of an M-16

action being worked.  Epps turns to face Jaeger.

Epps just stares at Jaeger, not frightened, but surprisingly

calm.

Jaeger is unfazed.  Very politely he says:

Epps takes him up on the offer.  What choice does he have?

THE CAMERA STAYS TIGHT ON THE TWO MEN.  They don't talk.

They don't move.  They just sit as WE HEAR THE SOUND OF THE

HELICOPTER GETTING CLOSER AND LOUDER.  IT REACHES A

CRESCENOO, THEN BEGINS TO FADE UNTIL IT DISAPPEARS.  The

chopter is gone, along with Epps and Jaeger's best chance of

getting out of the desert alive.

Jaeger lowers his rifle.  Very genuinely he says:

Like he didn't know he was keeping Epps from something.

Epps stands.  He looks around trying to figure things out.

Not much to figure.  There still in the middle of a desert in

a hostile country same as they ever were.

Jaeger takes out the maps he has and hands them to Epps.

Epps looks them over, then looks over the terrain.  Without

any landmarks or navigating tools the maps might as well be

finger paintings.

Fed up with Jaeger Epps turns on him hard.

Jaeger isn't sure what to say.

Epps sits down in the sand, all out of ideas.  There's a long

quiet before Jaeger says:

Again they sit for a beat.

Epps stands and has a last look around.

Jaeger just gives a surprised look.

Epps nods.  Jaeger stands and takes a good look around.  He

considers things, although there isn't much to consider.

Finally he decisively points in a direction.

Epps heads off in the opposite direction.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

Epps and Jaeger make the long march across the sand.  There's

so much nothing out there it's maddening.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

Epps drops down in the sand.  He lets his pack slide fram his

back, then pulls his water and takes a healthy swig.  He puts

his pack back on and struggles to his feet.  As Jaeger

crosses he takes Epps by the shoulder and helps to pull him

up.  The two wade on.

EXT. DESERT - EVENING

Epps and Jaeger are trekking as they have been doing all day.

They look worn out, but they keep moving.  Jaeger is several

paces behind Epps.

Jaeger takes the pack from his back and starts to open it.

Epps turns and races back to him grabbing him by the wrist

and forcing Jaeger to let go of the pack.

Epps waits for a response from Jaeger, but gets none.

Jaeger's eyes seem to be glazed, and his stare fixed on a

point well beyond Epps.  He raises a hand, points off into

the distance.

Epps turns and looks.  Off a ways is a light in the window of

what looks to be a shack-type building.  Epps stares at it as

if it were the holy Grail

Epps heads for the shack doing double time.  Jaeger puts the

pack back on and races to catch up.

Epps stops dead, now not more than one hundred meters from

the shack.

Epps considers this.

Epps and Jaeger keep on for the shack walking with

apprehension now instead of running.  Epps stops less than

fifty meters away.

Epps takes in a deep breath ready to yell to the shack.

Instead he turns to Jaeger.

Again Epps takes a deep breath.  And again just as he's about

to cry out he turns to Jaeger.

Epps takes a beat, then sucks in a breath.  He yells for the

shack:

Before Epps can even finish getting the word out machine gun

fire erupts from the house and burns towards Epps and Jaeger.

They dive for cover, hugging the ground as bullets whistle

and ping through the space around them.  They are forced back

and down against a narrow stretch of rock, but it offers

little protection and is chipped away by the hot lead.  It's

just a matter of moments before nothing stands before them

and death.  At the top of his lungs Jaeger starts yelling:

Just as quickly as it began the shooting stops.  From the

shack we hear some chatter in Arabic, then the door opens.  A

few MEN appear in the doorway.  They laugh and beckon for

Epps and Jaeger to join them.

Epps hurriedly stumbles in the dark for the shack.  Jaeger is

just steps behind him.

They enter the dimly lit shack to the good nature of the FOUR

men inside.  Epps and Jaeger see a fire in an open hearth and

go right to it to warm their bands as the four men go on

chattering behind them.

As they rub their hands together Epps looks up.  He freezes.

Hanging on the wall is a very handsome, nicely framed

portrait of Saddam Hussein.  Epps nudges Jaeger who also

looks up.  He also freezes.

Epps thinks.  What are they going to do?

Behind Epps and Jaeger one of the Iraqis asks a question of

them in Arabic.

Again the Iraqi asks the question.  We can tell by the tone

of his voice he expects an answer.

The Iraqis sense that something is wrong.  They move

menacingly for their weapons.

Jaeger whips around at the same time pulling his M-16.  He

jerks back hard on the trigger spraying back and forth, back

and forth.

Dig it:  The Iraqis do a death dance in the strobe light of

the muzzle flashes.  They do the twist, they do the jerk,

then they all fall down.

The bullets that miss do a nasty job of redecorating the

place; shredding walls, eating up wood.

Jaeger keeps firing until his clip is empty.  He stands

huffing, eyes glazed like he's a million miles away from what

he just did.  Epps steps up and takes the weapon from Jaeger.

That's like an alarm clock that brings Jaeger back to the

land of the living.  Jaeger takes one look around at all the

carnage, then doubles over and gets to puking.

Epps just watches this pathetic sight.  When Jaeger is all

done:

BLACK

INT. SHACK - MORNING

The sun has just pushed itself well above the horizon as

Jaeger comes awake.  The second he does he sees a MAN - Arab,

wearing white robes - peering through the window.  Jaeger

gives a start, and the man disappears.  Jaeger quickly shakes

Epps awake.

This wakes Epps up quick.

Epps does some quick figuring, then staying low, scrambles

across the floor to one of the dead Iraqis and grabs up his

weapon.  He grabs another one tosses it to Jaeger.

Carefully, still low, Epps creeps over to the window.  Slowly

he raises up and looks out.

Epps lowers himself back down and does some thinking.

As Jaeger gathers up what water he can find, creeps for

the door.  With the muzzle of his gun he pulls it open a

crack and peers out.  Still nothing.  It's like the man

vanished into thin air.

Jaeger, stocked up on water, comes over with the gold and

Epps' pack which Epps shoulders.

Jaeger nods.  Epps opens the door, and the two men carefully

snake their way out weapons at the ready.  It seems, though,

there is nothing to be ready for.  There is no one around.

Suddenly the man appears from around the shack.  Epps and

Jaeger turn on him targeting with their assault weapons, but

they do not fire.  The man just stands.  He doesn't say

anything, he makes no threatening moves.  The three stay

still as statues for several beats until Epps jerks his head

indicating to Jaeger they should move on.  That they do,

weapons still on the man, until they are beyond his range.

They walk on a little ways.  Jaeger spots something, and

thrusts a finger in its direction.

Mounted on a horse, riding on a dune that runs parallel to

them, is ANOTHER ARAB MAN.  He makes no effort to draw nearer

to Epps and Jaeger, but nor does he lose them.

As if to be contrary to Epps' statement ANOTHER TWO ARABS ON

HORSE BACK appear up over a dune before them.

Epps doesn't know, and he doesn't want to find out.  They

change direction heading away from the Arabs.  But again MORE

ARABS ride up over a dune.  Epps gets the feeling he and

Jaeger are about to be boxed in.

Epps breaks into a run.  Jaeger is only steps behind him.

Like something out of an old John Ford western dozens of

mounted Arabs suddenly appear over a dune.  They ride fast

and hard for Epps and Jaeger like Apaches heading for a wagon

train.  They easily overtake our two, momentarily swallowing

them amongst the thundering hoofs, and ride on a bit as if

playing with them.

Epps and Jaeger stop, then bolt in the other direction.  The

Arabs ride back, again past Epps and Jaeger swiping them to

the ground; the horses kicking up a spray of lose sand over

them.  It looks like a cattle round up, and our two are the

cattle.

Epps and Jaeger get up to make another run of it, and again

the Arabs bear down on them.  This time they mean business.

They completely surround them, cutting off all means of

escape.  The Arabs start screaming something back and forth

in Arabic.  We don't know what, but it sounds unpleasant.

Epps and Jaeger come skidding to a halt.  They turn in their

tracks digging in the scene.  It goes like this:  They are

completely outnumbered and out gunned by a mounted force.

Doesn't get any simpler.

Epps and Jaeger drop their weapons.  Their hands go in the

air.

EXT. SHI'ITE CAMP - LATER

The mounted Arabs lead Epps and Jaeger, hands tied before

them and almost literally being towed by the horses, into

their camp.  It is similar to the Shi'ite camps we've seen

before with several tent dwellings.

As the party enters groups of Shi'ites come over to stare at

Epps and Jaeger.  They chatter amongst themselves, but our

boys have no idea what they're talking about, and that just

makes things all the scarier.

From our boy's point of view this is all like an unending

nightmare:  Being dragged along through a desert, not knowing

the language, not knowing what's going to happen.  Their

world skews and slides as if they were on a tilt-a-whirl.

Finally they reach a tent.  One of the Arabs tosses Epps and

Jaeger's packs on the ground just before it.  Another cuts

them loose and SHOVES THEM INSIDE THE TENT, then yells

something at them in Arabic.  He leaves, and our two are

alone.

From O.C. we hear a voice:

Epps and Jaeger's hearts seize up and stop.  It's as if

they've heard the voice of a ghost, and they have.  IT'S WES!

He carries with him the pack of gold.  Epps can barely get

his name out.

Like a guy who just took two steps over the edge:

Ohhh, shit.  Somebody's crazy.  Epps gets the feeling there's

not going to be much dialog going on here.  Wes gets real

calm again, which is almost as scary as him acting nuts.

Wes gets right up into Jaeger's face.

Of course Wes knows they don't.  He allows himself a very

sweet, shit eating grin.

He steps away and starts to open the pack of gold.

For a second Wes is taken by surprise by the statement, but

he smiles at Epps' boldness.  He sets down the pack of gold

and gets right up into Epps' face.

A KNIFE SLIDES UP INTO FRAME UNTIL THE THE TIP RESTS JUST

UNDER WES' THROAT, CHOKING OFF HIS WORDS.

Now it's Epps' turn to go smug.

Wes' got nothing to say.  To Jaeger:

Jaeger grabs up the pack.

Wes says nothing.

Epps gruffly spins Wes around and presses the knife up

against his back so that it is hidden.

EPPS MARCHES WES OUTSIDE THE TENT, stopping momentarily to

grab up his pack with his free hand.  To Jaeger he says:

Jaeger does as he's told.

They walk on through the camp towards some saddled horses.

They pass a Shi'ite who says something to Wes in Arabic.

Epps gives Wes a poke in the back with the knife.

The Shi'ite, obviously expecting an answer, says whatever it

was he said again.

Epps gives this a lot of thought in a very short time.

Wes very calmly says something to the Shi'ite.  The Shi'ite

just stands there for a beat looking at the three men, then

suddenly explodes in screams.  No way of knowing for sure

what he's saying, but since he's going off like a Westec

alarm it's a pretty good bet he's been tipped of.

Epps rears back a fist and slams it into Wes' face.

Epps and Jaeger take off running for the horses, practically

leaping into the saddles as Shi'ites come pouring out of

their tents.  Forgetting himself, Wes screams in English.

Jaeger and Epps spur their horses and take off riding hard.

It's amazing what you can do when a bunch of angry Shi'ites

are chasing you.

Wes grabs an assault weapon from a near by Shi'ite and mounts

up with blood in his eyes.  He leads a charge of armed,

mounted Shi'ites that looks like a posse going after some bad

men.

Out front Epps and Jaeger pull up for a second.

Epps takes a look behind him.  He can't hardly miss the

sandstorm Wes and the Shi'ites kick up as they ride for them.

Epps points off to some foothills in the distance.  It's the

only thing close to cover for miles around.

They take the reigns to their horses and get to riding.

Behind them Wes yells to his riders, and signals for them to

split up, and try to cut off Epps and Jaeger.

Epps and Jaeger hit the hills.  They ride up for a bit, then

stop to spot Wes.  Wes and his crew are better riders and

have closed the gap.  All the two can do now is try to lose

them in the terrain.

Epps and Jaeger ride as best they can, and somewhat

erratically to cover their trail.  They head up a ways, then

cut across in a parallel direction.  Jaeger looks back, but

sees no sign of Wes.

Just as the words leave Jaeger's mouth a hail of bullets

explodes the ground before them.  Their horses rear up, and

it's all they can do to fight them.  Just ahead are the

Shi'ites who split off from Wes, having circled around Epps

and Jaeger.

The two yank their horses back, and ride hard in the opposite

direction with the Shi'ites just behind.  They fire on Epps

and Jaeger, the bullets pinging off the rocks all around them.

Epps and Jaeger are little more than passengers on their

horses as they run wild like stampeding mustangs.  And good

for it, too, otherwise they might be dead by now.  They break

for a trail that leads further up the mountain, but it

does little to shake loose their pursuers.

As Epps and Jaeger level out they can see the trail below

them, and Wes and his posse riding for them.  Our two start

back the way they came. but the other Shi'ites crest the

hill.

Epps looks from side to side.  Either way is certain death.

Then he looks off towards an embankment.  It is VERY steep.

VERY treacherous.

It would take an expert rider to make it down the embankment

safely.  All Epps knows is there aren't any gun totting

Shi'ites in that direction.

Fear gives way to desperation.  Both men whip their steeds

hard.  The beasts leap to the embankment and start the wild

ride down.  Both Epps and Jaeger have to lean back in their

saddles until they're almost parallel to the ground just to

stay on their horses.

Wes sees this and swears.  He signals to his men to cut back

the other way.

Epps reaches the bottom of the embankment.  Jaeger is almost

there when he looses control of his horse.  Both rider and

animal go tumbling in an ugly fall.

The horse gets up and bolts off before Jaeger can get to her.

Just then Wes and his men make it back down the trail, and

start riding hard for Jaeger.

Epps pulls his horse around and takes off for his fallen

comrade.  As he rides in he leans to the side and low.

Stretching out an arm Epps literally scoops Jaeger, and

swings him up behind him.  A couple of rodeo performers

couldn't have done it better.

Problem is with the extra weight they can't go very fast.

Wes and his men close hard now.  The bullets fly fast and

furious swarming all around our boys.

Epps whips the horse, trying to get everything she's got to

horse finds a little something extra.  She goes faster,

faster...

Suddenly Epps pulls up hard on the reins.  The horse rears

up, she goes wild.  It takes everything Epps has to control

her.  But better that than if she'd taken another stride.

They've come to the edge of a very, very sharp cliff.  Epps

may be a good rider for a novice, but no way he could get

this beast to fly.

Finally he calms the horse down, but it doesn't matter.  Wes

and the Shi'ites ride up behind them cutting them off.  Wes

stands down from his horse.

Epps and Jaeger, with nowhere to go, do the same.

Epps takes the pack from Jaeger, but doesn't throw it to Wes.

Wes smiles and lies so badly he doesn't even bother trying to

fake it.

Epps has got no choice, really.  He tosses the pack to Wes'

feet who stoops to pick it up.  Wes starts to open the pack.

Wes rips open the pack.  He's got about one second to see

what's inside.  NO GOLD.  JUST A BOOBY TRAPPED CLAYMORE MINE.

Epps grabs Jaeger and yanks to him to the ground.

There is a horrific furry of sound and fire that easily

destroys Wes and a few of the Shi'ite standing next to him.

The rest, along with the horses, scatter for dear life.

Epps stays down until the coast is clear, then gets up.

Jaeger, to say the least, is stunned.

We hold on the two men, on the smoking remains of Wes.  We

hold on them, then:

BLACK

EXT. DESERT/ROAD - LATER

Epps and Jaeger come up to the road, a small highway.  It's

eerie; a road in the middle of the desert.  Quiet.  No cars.

They just stand and stare at it for a beat.

Epps sits by the side of the road waiting for a car.  The

only thing he gets is more quiet.  Jaeger sits next to him.

After a couple of beats:

They sit a while more.  Still no car.

Another long beat.  Still no car.

From the distance we hear the faint sound of a car motor.  It

draws closer and closer.

Epps and Jaeger stand.  Knowing they're so close to the end

of a long adventure they become very business like.

Epps and Jaeger just stand staring at each other as the car

draws closer.

Jaeger goes out and lays in the car's path.  Epps goes to

hide behind some rocks.

The car keeps getting closer and closer.

Jaeger yells over to Epps.

The car gets closer.

The car gets closer.

The car barrels right for Jaeger.  Forget what Epps says,

it's not slowing down and Jaeger knows it.

At the last possible second Jaeger rolls out of the way.  The

car doesn't slow, tearing across the stretch of road where

Jaeger lay, but swerves to avoid him.  The DRIVER loses

control for a few seconds and is forced to skid to a halt.

Epps runs to the car, rips open the driver's door, and

presses the muzzle of an assault weapon to his head.

Jaeger runs over and jumps in the car.  Epps gets in behind

the driver, keeping the gun pressed to his head.

Epps takes a gold coin from his back and gives it to the driver.

The driver turns around the car and starts back in the

direction he came.

They drive on for awhile, mostly in silence.  Epps and Jaeger

are too anxious to have this all over to say much, and the

driver is too scared.  Finally the driver starts to talk.

Neither Jaeger or Epps answer.

Still Jaeger and Epps say nothing.  Outside the car the

traffic flowing in the opposite direction gradually gets

thicker and thicker.

This last bit gets to Epps.

Outside the traffic away from Kuwait has gotten so thick

everything is at a stand still.  There are Iraqi military

vehicles pulling out, as well as a good many civilian cars

and trucks.  It clogs up both lanes, and envelopes the car.

Some people try to make their way on foot as it is now much

faster.

The driver tries to work the car free of the congestion, but

he's wedged in, and not going anywhere.

From out of the sky swoop down a flight of AMERICAN F-15E

FIGHTER JETS.  They swing down on the far end of the highway,

engines roaring like angry lions.  For a second time stands

still.  Everyone on the road stops and looks up at the jets.

Time starts again, and with a deadly vengeance.

The fighter pilots begin to strafe the highway:  Vehicles and

people, civilian and military alike.  There is no

distinction, only carnage.

This is the infamous Al Jahra highway from Basrah to Kuwait

City that was strafed with deadly accuracy over and over on

the last day of the war by American forces.  It became known

as the Highway of Death.

The huge shells rip a bloody path, shredding cars and trucks,

igniting explosions, straight towards the car with Epps,

Jaeger and the driver.  With barely seconds to go before they

are shot to pieces as well.  They dive from the car, Epps

dragging the driver out, and scramble for cover along the

side of the road.

The planes turn back for another pass.

Not even thinking about what he's doing Jaeger jumps up and

screams at the jets.

Epps jumps up and drags Jaeger back down to cover as the

shells fram the jets cut dangerously close to them.

The jets bank and swoop for another run.

Epps realizes there is something wrong.  He looks around

desperately, but doesn't see...THERE, BACK IN THE CAR!

Epps runs for the car, trying to beat the jets.

Jaeger lunges for Epps but misses him.  Epps snakes his way

through the burning hulks towards their car.  He dodges,

jukes and weaves among shells, shrapnel and explosions that

go off all around him.  He just makes it to the car, grabbing

up the gold, as the fighters once again swing low and cut

loose.

A wicked hail of shells reigns down.  It sets off a series of

violent explosions that knocks Jaeger off his feet.  It takes

him a beat to recover.  By then the fighters have done their

job, and fly off.

Jaeger stands.  He walks towards the road over the plaintive

wails of the barely living.  The car, the gold, Epps... they

are essentially disintegrated.

AS THE CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP WE SEE THAT IT ISN'T JUST

THEIR CAR AND EPPS THAT ARE GONE.  There isn't much of

anything left on this road.  Just death, destruction and

bloodshed.

BLACK

INT. MILITARY COURTROOM - MONTHS LATER

Jaeger is cleaned up, in dress uniform, and sitting at a

table before a MILITARY TRIBUNAL.  He looks very sullen, as

if this whole adventure has robbed him of his soul.

The members of the tribunal just look pissed.

Jager doesn't stand.  He doesn't look at the tribunal.  He

just begins to talk.

The members of the tribunal just scoff.

Jaeger allows himself a slight smile as he leaves the

tribunal with this question.

BLACK

