1.

EXT. DEVON, ENGLAND. A SUMMER'S DAY, 1912.

The bucolic magnificence of the Devon countryside. We fly

low over the high, thick hedges untouched for hundreds of

years. The thick verdant countryside in all its splendor,

ancient woodlands, fields of corn, and finally a paddock in a

typical Devonshire dale.

We come to rest beside three farmers standing over a pregnant

mare. The mare is in distress - she is about to give birth.

The farmers calm the mare and tend to her gently with

assurance and authority.

We pull back to see, ALBERT, a fifteen-year-old farm boy,

watching the whole drama with delight from the paddock gate.

The men hold the mare firmly, but clearly this is a difficult

birth.

Moments later - the summer's sun glints off the wet, sticky

hide of the foal (JOEY) - red hide, four white socks and a

distinctive white cross on its forehead.

Soon the creature is attempting its first clumsy steps. It is

both awesome and comical to see the new born creature

struggle to his feet, but eventually, he succeeds.

Title: WAR HORSE

EXT. PADDOCK/FIELD, DEVON. VARIOUS.

We follow Joey's progress over the course of his first year.

His initial fearfulness, his connection with his mother, the

intimacy of their relationship.

As Joey gets strong they run together, frolicking gayly in

the last dregs of summer. Albert looking on. Joey notices him

at the fence and they share a moment of connection.

Spring: flowers are beginning to sprout by the hedgerows. Our

boy Albert runs into the field. He takes an apple from his

pocket - he holds it out tentatively. Joey approaches Albert

with suspicion. Albert gently encourages him.

His mother paws the ground and neighs at Joey. He turns and

runs over the field at her beck and call.

Albert tosses the apple to himself, ruefully - watches in awe

as Joey races away with his mother.

He is a magnificent one year old. His distinctive red coat

gleaming, now it is clear that he is half thoroughbred. He

runs quickly around the field enjoying his own power and

strength.

Later - the three farmers open the gate and come into the

field. Both Joey and his mother instinctively canter over to

the two men, expecting food. The three men gently greet the

horses and pet them, then we see one man has a noose made of

a rope. He slips it round Mum's neck. She pulls back, Joey is

shaken and bewildered but before he knows what's happening

the second farmer is trying to get a similar rope around his

neck. Joey balks and pushes the farmer aside, distressed to

see his mother tethered. The farmer grabs Joey again and

struggles with him, enlisting the help of the second farmer.

With some effort they get the rope around his neck and calm

him down.

Unused to being tethered Joey pulls at the rope but the

farmers are solid and firm. They gently lead Joey and his

mother across the field to the gate and out into the road.

The whole road becomes overtaken by a flock of sheep on their

way to the market. In the distance we hear the bustle of

Market Day.

EXT. THE MARKET. THE SAME.

The farmers lead Joey and his mother through the chaos of the

market and into an auction pen. They find themselves amongst

a hoard of pigs, sheep and cows. Joey is agog at all of these

creatures and all this life he had no idea existed.

The farmers lead the horses into a stall to await the

auction. Joey is bewildered by all the noise - buttressed

against a couple of mules and a cow. He is uncomfortable in

this tight space.

An AUCTION WORKER holds a clipboard out for the lead farmer.

EXT. JOEY'S PEN. THE SAME.

Two men approach the pen.

One man grabs Joey and pulls him out of the pen. Suddenly

there is a look of horror on his face. His terrified mother

realises they are being separated. Joey panics and

desperately tries to get back to his mother, he rises up

throwing the man who is leading him aside. Joey is out of

control. The man regains control of Joey.

He pulls Joey away from his mother, who lets out a heart-

rending cry, paws the ground, and crashes her foreleg against

the fence. Joey remains disoriented in the midst of the

market day chaos.

INT. MAIN AUCTION RING. THE SAME.

The auction ring is full of people of all shapes and sizes.

There is a sense of celebration and busyness about market

day.

We concentrate on two men - Ted Narracott (DAD), in his

forties, clearly both the cares of the world and alcohol have

worn him down before his time, and SI EASTON, his more solid

friend, both working farmers. Just behind Si is his 15 year

old son, ANDREW. Ted has a drink in his hand. They all look

at Joey bridling against the men who are trying to hold him.

In contrast to Joey, the solid and bulky plow horse stands

like a rock. But Dad remains fixated on Joey.

Indeed, Joey is magnificent, his power clearly emerging

because of his upset.

The AUCTIONEER announces the start of the auction...

FRED shouts his reply from the crowd.

The crowd are loving all this.

Dad notices a figure across the ring, LYONS, clearly a man of

money. You can see something light up in Dad's eyes - a

combination of dislike and alcohol.

Joey is led into the auction pen.

But no-one bids.

Joey is still trying to get back to his mother. A voice from

the crowd pipes up:

Lyons whispers to his son, DAVID, 15, next to him. David eyes

Joey skeptically.

Joey is straining to get to his mother, the men are pulling

him back.

Lyons looks over. There is now tension in the crowd as they

sense a Battle Royal for the horse.

He smirks at Dad.

They all look at Lyons in his suit and bowler hat.

All eyes are on Lyons and his son - David is 15, smartly

dressed.

Lyons isn't listening to David; he's looking hard at Ted.

The crowd gasps. This is clearly personal.

But when he looks at Ted, Ted's eyes are locked into the eyes

of his rival.

Total silence. He stares hard at Lyons. Who simply smiles,

raises an eyebrow, tips his hat and walks away. It dawns on

Dad that he's won the auction. He breaks into a sweat.

He bangs his gavel. It's a done deal.

Dad doesn't acknowledge Si.

Moments later - Ted stands staring at Joey, who looks back.

Ted holds his reins numbly, accepts his receipt from the

auction man in a kind of daze.

Suddenly, Lyons appears at Dad's shoulder.

Dad does not acknowledge Lyons. Lyons smiles and walks away

with son David, and his cronies. Si shakes his head at Dad.

EXT. NARRACOTT'S FARM. SUNSET.

MRS. NARRACOTT kneels in her garden, digging up some carrots,

when she sees Ted returning.

Dad walks down the hedged lane as the sun sets pulling Joey

with him, his bad leg always moving slightly to the side.

Mrs. Narracott looks in horror and bewilderment at Joey and

then at Dad. She is a good-looking, intelligent woman, but

clearly her life is always hard.

Dad stands shamefaced as Albert - the boy we have already met

- runs out of the house to join them.

Albert is totally taken by the horse.

She is stunned. She looks at Ted - and he just nods.

Joey bridles at the raised voices but Albert takes the rope

and tries to calm him.

Suddenly we see Dad's dejection. He is a man lost.

Mrs. Narracott turns back towards the house, then stops,

dazed, speaking almost to herself.

She turns back to the others - the weight of the mistake

heavy on their shoulders - but Albert quickly steps forward.

Mrs. Narracott storms into the house. Albert immediately

goes to stroke Joey but the nervous horse draws back

uncomfortably. Dad leads him off, drunk and bewildered,

across the yard to the barn.

EXT. STABLES. LATER.

Albert loads some oats into a bucket and approaches Joey in

the field.

As Albert approaches, Joey nervously runs in circles, then

stops on a dime, looking at Albert suspiciously.

Albert squats down. He shows the food. Joey catches the

scent on the air, but still hesitates and shies away.

This time, Albert takes a new tact, almost turning his body

fully away from Joey, but keeping the bucket extended.

Albert slowly backs towards Joey, speaking gently all the

while.

Feeling safer, Joey moves toward the bucket of oats and

starts to eat.

Albert reaches out his hand and touches Joey. And with a

slight start, the horse relaxes into Albert's hand, feeling

safe with the boy.

Albert stares at the distinctive white cross on Joey's

forehead. Joey calms.

Albert strokes Joey's forehead. Joey lifts his head and the

two stare at each other in close proximity.

EXT. FARMYARD. NEXT DAY.

Dad, with a hangover, hobbles off to work the fields. As he

reaches the gate, HAROLD the goose snaps at his heels. Dad

dismisses him with a stare and heads for the stables.

EXT. THE FARMYARD, DAY.

The training episode: Albert walks Joey around the yard on

the rope. It all seems to be going well. Mum looks on. Albert

is clearly proud of his progress.

EXT. PADDOCK. ANOTHER DAY.

Albert's friend, Andrew Easton, sits on a rock with an apple

in hand to watch the training.

Albert sets Joey in a spot and tells him to wait.

Of course when Albert walks away, Joey follows.

A game of "Grandma's footsteps" ensues as Albert patiently

places Joey then walks away.

Albert patiently leads Joey back to his starting position.

Albert walks away again.

Finally Joey stays put. Andrew smiles, impressed.

Albert whistles like an owl. Joey stands completely still.

He whistles again. Joey remains still.

Albert walks back to Joey, frustrated.

He gently strokes Joey's nose.

Albert runs further away than before and whistles. After a

moment, Joey trots over to him. Andrew smiles broadly.

With the basis established, Albert begins to train Joey to

react to the owl whistle without his prompting. It's not all

easy going - sometimes Albert makes progress, sometimes not.

QUICK MONTAGE - Mrs. Narracott fills a bucket at the pump,

then promptly spills it when Joey trots past her in response

to an owl whistle. She calls off, frustrated.

Dad heads out to the fields with a rake on his shoulder.

There's an owl call and Joey trots past him in the

background. Dad sees Albert welcome Joey by the haystacks,

stroking his nose affectionately. Dad walks on, his

expression inscrutable.

Joey trots up a path, pursuing another owl call. After

several more calls, he still can't spot Albert, until he

cranes his neck up and sees Albert sitting in a nearby tree.

Albert laughs.

INT. FARM HOUSE. LATER.

Lyons is there with his son, David, and his unlikable

cronies. He holds a meager handful of cash. Dad and Mum look

chastened. The mood is sombre.

Lyons begins loading up his ledger into his bag.

Dad stands up from his chair, resolute.

Mrs. Narracott interjects, desperate.

Lyons takes his time. He looks at them both - Ted and Rosie,

almost beaten.

Lyons heads for the door, but Albert stands in his way.

Lyons tries to move past, but Albert grabs his arm.

Albert knows he has to back down. Lyons walks past him and

leaves with David and his cronies.

EXT. THE NARRACOTT FARM. THE SAME.

Harold the goose attacks Lyons and his men. They quickly

pile into his car and drive off.

Ted stands in the kitchen immobile with upset.

EXT. STABLES. MOMENTS LATER.

Dad throws open the stable door, jerks the harness from the

wall, throws open Joey's stall and starts to lunge at the

horse.

Albert runs in to try to stop him.

Dad starts to grapple with Joey desperately flailing in an

attempt to get the harness onto Joey. Joey is completely

confused and frightened.

Joey tries to push Dad out of the way, Dad frustrated by this

hits Joey hard with the harness.

Joey rears up and kicks Dad. Who falls to the ground.

Albert grabs Joey's bridle. Joey wrestles with Albert.

Dad is mad with anger and frustration - and in pain. He

staggers to his feet and leaves.

Albert calms Joey down. Mrs. Narracott returns the harness

to its hook.

But then she notices Dad has returned. He has a gun.

He grabs the rifle, but Dad shoves him away.

Dad raises the rifle, but Albert wrestles for it again.

Furious with frustration Dad throws Albert to the ground and

takes aim at the horse.

Mrs. Narracott quickly pulls the gun aside.

Dad whips the gun back towards Joey to find Albert standing

between them - right in front of the gun's barrel. For a

second we think Albert will be inadvertently shot.

Dad pauses his finger just in time. Albert gently holds the

barrel of the gun. Speaks calmly.

Dad looks at him, frozen. Mrs. Narracott eases the gun away

from him -

- and hands it to Albert, telling him -

As Albert leaves, Ted takes out his flask. But Rosie takes it

from him gently. He doesn't resist.

They exit the stable together, leaving Joey in his stall.

INT./ EXT. STABLES. DAWN.

Albert walks towards the stables - enters. And talks to Joey

as he prepares the harness.

He is left in just a loose-fitting white shirt....

Joey instinctively balks, but Albert is stern with him.

As he approaches Joey with the harness, Harold the goose

enters the stable to watch.

Albert approaches gently and slowly puts the harness over his

own neck and shoulders to demonstrate -

It is a moment between them. The horse looks Albert in the

eye, then yields. Albert comforts him and show there is

nothing to fear. Finally he gets the harness in place.

Harold honks his approval.

Albert leads Joey out across the yard, through the broken

gate.

EXT. LOWER FIELD. THE SAME.

It is a grey day as they walk across the plowed fields

towards the huge lower field. They come to a rusty, primitive

plow left in the grass. Albert looks around the field - it is

overgrown, it seems to go on forever - even if Joey was a

plow horse this would be a heavy task.

Si Easton and Andrew stroll up the road to watch.

They're interrupted by the honk of a horn as Lyons and David

pull up in a car. Lyons and David get out. Their driver

remains inside.

Si nods in the direction of the house.

Albert steadies Joey and starts to tie on the heavy plow. It

just seems too big and bulky for Joey's sleek frame. Albert

sets Joey right and fixes the plow.

Lyons, David, Si, and Andrew walk towards Dad, who looks on

anxiously from a nearby hedgerow. Lyons gestures at David to

stay back and walks over to Ted alone. He stands beside him

and begins to talk gently.

Down in the field, Albert continues to prep the plow.

Ted hasn't acknowledged Lyons for a second; he's never taken

his eyes off Albert. He simply stands and walks away as

Albert has been meticulously preparing everything,

positioning Joey, checking the tethers, digging the rusty

plow in the earth. He takes his position behind the plow,

throwing the rear leather harness over his own neck.

Albert gently snaps the reins. Joey doesn't move, confused by

the whole affair.

At the house, Mrs. Narracott opens an upstairs window to look

on, anxiously. Ted, standing alone by the fence, only looks

at Albert.

Just as Ted is saying this, Albert, as if hearing his father,

takes a breath and then abruptly produces a whip. Joey's

ears prick up. Albert, grimly determined, snaps the whip at

Joey. Joey panics and bolts. The plow spins to its side,

pulls Albert off his feet. Joey drags them all the way to

the top of the hill, right by the farmhouse.

Lyons, yelling, starts laughing and can't stop.

He continues past Dad, laughing.

INTERCUT - Mrs. Narracott looks on from the house. He

glances back at her. Her face is full of angry concern for

their son.

Townsfolk begin arriving, climbing the hill to the lower

field.

Ted looks down, ashamed. Mrs. Narracott looks back at Albert,

mortified, bruised, setting the plow right again.

Mrs. Narracott moves away from the window, takes a seat, and

picks up her knitting.

Later - Albert has made no progress. Joey is moving, but

only in a useless circle.

More townsfolk clamor to the fence. Andrew calls out.

Albert tries to encourage him forward but Joey still isn't

pulling sufficiently. The plow skips uselessly over the

surface stones.

As Albert struggles with the plow, he sees Dad walking up the

hill behind the spectators. He doesn't even turn to his son.

Joey strains as Albert pushes with all his might. We sense

the strain on the horse and the inappropriateness of the

task. But Joey perseveres. The plow limps along.

The plow skips and Albert falls. Joey's legs buckle and he

goes to his knees. Albert rushes to his side.

Lyons calls from the crowd as rain starts to fall.

Albert examines the collar - he sees it is ripping into

Joey's flesh. He grabs his shirt, tears a piece off it,

tenderly folds it and puts it between Joey's shoulder and the

collar.

The crowd's beginning to disperse. One of Lyons' cronies

holds his umbrella as he returns to his car. He passes Ted.

Mrs. Narracott emerges from the house and heads to the fence -

holding her knitting in the rain, ignoring the leaving

crowds. A SYMPATHETIC NEIGHBOR hands her:

Lyons passes behind her, almost speaks, but then thinks

better of it.

As the rain intensifies, Albert digs his toe into the wet

soil and notices how it has softened. Suddenly something

flashes through Albert's mind. He leaps into action, runs

through the rain to shout at Joey.

He races back to the plow and sets himself.

Joey pulls firmly and finally the inertia is broken - the

rain has softened the earth.

Finally, the plow bites deep into the soil.

At the fence, Mrs. Narracott looks on in amazement.

Albert notices a large rock in their path. Andrew sees it,

too.

Albert hauls back on the reins, but Joey throws his flanks

forward, straining and lurching until the plow blade splits

the rock completely in half and now the plow moves more

easily through the wet ground.

The ground yields. Soon Albert and Joey are making great

progress. The wet earth slipping open beneath them.

Andrew is loving it, speaks in wonder.

Mrs. Narracott looks very happy, a smile breaking slowly

across her face...

The crowd begins to return. Lyons notices and looks out from

his car - sees the plow digging through the field.

Annoyed at the progress Albert's making, he gets out of his

car and walks over to Mrs. Narracott. With great disdain he

Mrs. Narracott brandishes her knitting needles, backing him

up.

Dad sits nearby, watching this exchange with silent approval.

Lyons stares at her, gape-mouthed, as she turns her attention

back to Albert.

The rain becomes torrential. Lyons turns towards the car -

gestures, frustrated, to his driver, who runs forward with

the umbrella to shield his boss from the rain. David remains

on the running board, watching Albert plowing.

The plow speeds through the earth. The boy and the horse are

working as one. It is a moment of triumph.

We pull back to see they have made only the smallest dent in

the enormous field.

As Lyons' car passes, Dad steps forward, takes in the scene,

and almost smiles.

EXT. THE LOWER FIELD. EVENING.

The rain has abated. Albert, soaked to the skin, sits next

to Joey. They are both covered in mud.

Andrew, followed by Si Easton, charges through the gate up to

Albert. They are lifting Albert up between them, laughing,

Si Easton planting a kiss on Albert's muddy cheek, Andrew

tousling his filthy hair, when Mrs. Narracott arrives with

Ted. She helps Si and Andrew lift Albert and slings her

son's arm over her shoulder, glowing with pride, crying,

overjoyed.

As the others help Albert up, Ted tends to Joey. He looks

over to his son and, after a moment, removes his cap and

slightly bows his head.

The others stagger away, supporting Albert, and Ted pats the

horse and gently begins to unbuckle the harness.

INT. STABLES. DAY.

Albert washes Joey and tends the wounds and sores on his

body. Rosie is putting antiseptic on Albert's wrists and

shoulders. Joey bristles but is soothed by Albert's care.

Rosie stalks over to a pile of broken equipment in a corner

of the stables. She rummages until she finds a waterstained

brown paper parcel tied with yarn. She brushes away some

mouse turds.

They sit together on a step. As she begins to untie the

yarn, a change comes over her: her irritated determination

gives way to sadness. Albert comes to her and kneels beside

her as she gently opens the paper.

Inside there's a red and tan pennant, knotted and fringed at

both ends.

Then with great care she unfolds the sash to reveal two

silver medals. The first, with the profile of Victoria, hangs

from a red, blue and orange ribbon.

She holds up the other medal, hanging from a red and black

ribbon.

She hands Albert the Distinguished Conduct Medal. He takes

it, astonished.

Albert nods, looking at the medal and campaign pennant. She

takes the medal back, puts it in the sash, and begins to wrap

it again.

She returns the things in the footlocker, closes it.

She heads back to Albert, pennant in hand.

As she leaves, she drapes the pennant over Albert's shoulder.

Albert looks again at the pennant.

Albert holds the pennant in wonder.

EXT. FIELD. DAY.

Early morning. Dad hobbling across the furrows, alone,

planting the field by hand.

EXT. NARRACOTT FARM. DEVON COUNTRY MONTAGE.

Albert and Joey are now in a meadow. They trot past the field

he plowed, now packed with a strong and sturdy crop, which

Ted tends to.

The sun is breaking through and Joey starts to run across the

field and up a small incline. As both Joey and Albert gain

confidence they pick up speed. Albert pushes Joey on, they

are going faster and faster, Albert yells with the

exhilaration of it all. Joey races flat out across the

countryside. Albert hanging on for dear life.

Albert and Joey pull up beside a sleek red car. It's Lyons'

car, being driven by David Lyons, every inch the expensively-

tailored rural gentry.

Albert urges Joey to go faster, till they're neck and neck

beside the car, racing it. David Lyons looks to see Albert

and Joey running alongside his car. He feigns disinterest.

Albert glances at David, but he's much more interested in the

very pretty young woman seated next to David, her hands

trying to control her hair, flying in the wind. Forgetting

himself momentarily, Albert stares at her, dazzled. The woman

turns to David:

She smiles at Albert, encouraging him. David Lyons, annoyed,

pushes the accelerator down, and the car edges ahead of Joey.

But not for long. The sound of the acceleration and Albert's

eagerness to impress the young woman make Joey go faster, and

again he moves out ahead of the car. The young woman grins

at Albert.

Up ahead Albert sees that the wall alongside of which he's

been racing turns the corner, presenting him and Joey with an

obstacle. Albert encourages Joey to go faster.

They head right for the wall, but at the very last moment,

Joey balks and comes to a dead standstill, sending Albert

sailing over the wall.

Back in the car, the girl gasps and covers her mouth,

concerned. David says nothing, but allows himself a small

smile.

On the other side of the wall, Albert stands a bit battered,

but unfazed.

Thunder starts to rumble ominously in the background.

EXT. NARRACOTT FARM. NIGHT.

Albert and Joey return, driving sheep before them. Angry

storm clouds stretch to the horizon.

EXT. NARRACOTT FARM. NIGHT.

As Albert leads Joey to the stable, lighting blasts across an

angry sky. The rain is falling in torrents.

INT. FARMHOUSE. NIGHT.

Another crack of thunder - and a piece of wood in the roof

gives way - water gushes in - Dad rushes to support the roof

as the wind forces a window open.

At that moment, the door suddenly swings open with the

violence of the storm, smashing against the wall - Dad and

Rosie turn - and there is Harold the goose, who scuttles in

without his usual arrogance and hides himself in a corner.

The thunder cracks again and...

EXT. LOWER FIELD. DAY.

Albert and Dad walk across the field. Mrs. Narracott digs

through the mess. The entire crop is flat - ruined by the

storms. The ground squelches beneath their feet.

The whole field is a write off.

Dad doesn't answer. He shakes his head and limps away.

Ted doesn't turn around.

INT. KITCHEN. EVENING.

Mrs. Narracott makes some coffee. Ted sits alone on a chair.

Then somewhere in the distance, an unfamiliar sound...

EXT. LANE LEADING TO THE VILLAGE. EVENING.

A motorbike rumbles along the lane at huge speed creating a

cloud of dust as it goes. The noise of the motorbike is

drawing attention from all over the valley. It can be heard

fields away and everyone is drawn to this completely unheard

of sound.

EXT. THE VILLAGE. EVENING.

The motorbike whizzes through the village. Heads turn in

astonishment.

The bike comes to a stop in the market place. The rider takes

off his goggles.

Men of the village start to flock around the machine, with

great curiosity.

Shock and amazement. The rider takes off his goggles:

Everyone across England knows that their lives are about to

change.

EXT. FARM YARD. DAY.

Dawn rises over the farm.

EXT. FARM YARD. DAWN.

Albert races to the stables, excited with the campaign

pennant.

INT. STABLES. THE SAME.

As Albert enters the stables, he calls out:

Albert opens the doors and stops dead. He looks at the empty

stables.

EXT./ INT. KITCHEN / YARD. DAY.

Albert runs out.

He rushes into the kitchen. His mother stares out the window.

She has been crying.

She says nothing, but her face gives everything away. Albert

in a panic turns and runs out into the lane. Mrs. Narracott

tears up again.

EXT. SQUARE OF A MARKET TOWN. THE SAME.

The market square is full of military men. The Union Jack is

flying up the flagpole. A group of girls has gathered to

check out the army boys. Eager young men crowd a table

staffed by recruiting officers:

CAPTAIN NICHOLLS is in the square inspecting Joey,

knowledgably. He is a handsome, attractive, modest, upper

class man. Dad stands beside him. He checks Joey's teeth, his

feet and finally, looks him straight in the eye.

Captain Nicholls has immediately connected with Joey and puts

him at his ease. SAM PERKINS, a tough sergeant, is physically

inspecting Joey.

EXT. SQUARE OF A MARKET TOWN. THE SAME.

Albert bursts into the square just in time to see Nicholls

and Dad shake hands. Their business concluded.

Albert races towards Joey. Ted grabs him. Albert fights to

get free. He looks at his father in anger and betrayal.

Albert is hysterical.

Albert snaps to attention.

Albert looks at him. Although Nicholls speaks with authority

he has a kindness which Albert recognizes.

Albert kisses Joey.

But at that moment, Sam Perkins pulls Joey away:

Nicholls walks away into the crowd. The Sergeant pulls Joey,

but Joey does not want to be separated from Albert. His

reaction is implacable, reminiscent to the separation from

his mother. Perkins leads Joey away. They disappear into the

crowd and Rosie is suddenly there. Ted senses her silent

judgment.

She looks at Albert. Implacable. Forever.

EXT. VILLAGE SQUARE. THE SAME.

The recruits march through town under pennants and the

strains of a familiar song("The Jolly Plowboy") - it is a

song they all know, which means a lot to them - full of soul -

a song of harvest or a Celtic hymn, something relating

specifically to the lives they have led together. Everyone of

every age - everyone in the village knows this song - it is

theirs.

Nicholls passes in his car and we see those they are leaving

behind - cheering - a whole generation of young men is

marching off to war. One girlfriend rushes up to kiss her

leaving boyfriend.

Albert watches Joey, then remembers the campaign pennant

dangling from his pocket. He runs up to Joey -

- and tucks the pennant into Joey's halter.

But Nicholls intervenes from his car.

And then they are past him, leaving him behind. As Perkins

leads Joey across a stone bridge, Albert watches from the

bank of the stream.

Joey balks one last time -

- then Perkins leads him away, leaving Albert behind.

The very last recruits leave the village - leaving the debris

of this army's visit strewn on the square. Like the debris

of a party you are already beginning to regret.

INT. ARMY STABLES. THE SAME.

Joey is handed off to a groom. Joey is amazed by the scale

of the building. Each horse has a large stall and is being

tended to assiduously. Joey looks around at the hundreds of

men and horses around him and panics.

He bucks, throwing the groom to the ground, and gallops away.

But Perkins cuts him off, grabs his halter, and jerks him

back to attention.

He pushes him into his stall, next to Major Stewart's horse,

a magnificent black stallion, TOPTHORN.

Joey rears up in his stall.

This is the first time that Joey has had to deal with another

horse since his mother - the beginning of one of the most

important relationships in his life.

Nicholls passes his gloves and crop to his bat boy who is

there to assist him.

Nicholls is joined by his friend LIEUTENANT CHARLIE WAVERLY.

He is sweet and friendly - upper class but completely benign.

They're both joined by a tall, confident officer, MAJOR JAMIE

STEWART. He sizes up Joey.

He suddenly turns from the joking into the efficient senior

officer he is.

They leave.

EXT. SALISBURY PLAIN. DAY.

The whole regiment is gathered. Everybody is in their

ceremonial uniform. It all has the feeling of the Changing of

the Guard rather than anything related to a real battle. The

day is hot, the plains are quiet and beautiful, the gathering

is huge, there is a real sense of pride and anticipation.

Captain Nicholls, resplendent in full uniform rides Joey out

over the vast expanse of the plain. Both Nicholls and Joey

are dressed up like something from the last century, out of

the Boer War, even the Charge of the Light Brigade. Nicholls

is proud and confident. They gather before hundreds of men

and horses all lined up to be inspected. Charlie joins them,

looking pretty good on Blenheim.

Finally, Nicholls and Charlie reach Stewart and Topthorn

waiting in position.

Nicholls looks at his friend tolerantly.

Nicholls and Stewart and Charlie prepare themselves for the

charge. Joey and Topthorn size up to one another.

Topthorn bristles at Joey. Everyone is highly charged. The

competition between Stewart and Nicholls seems to have been

absorbed between the horses. Topthorn and Joey square up for

the practice charge like two athletes before a race.

Nicholls raises his sword. It glints in the summer air. It

seems to hang there forever. Every man follows suit.

Topthorn and Joey glance at each other, ready to charge.

Every sword is pointed directly ahead at arm's length.

A roar goes up from the men and a deafening pounding of

hooves breaks the silence. The huge line of horses start

running straight ahead of them. Joey and Topthorn run off at

top speed. Dust and earth rise up behind them.

Bugles, the deafening thunder of hooves. It is exhilarating.

We see the scale of the operation, we enjoy the speed and the

splendor of the mass of men and horses. The soldiers shout in

glee and excitement. Each man pushes his horse to out-run

those around him, Nicholls and Stewart seem locked in mortal

combat.

Nicholls smiles at Stewart, confidently.

Topthorn starts to pull away, ahead of all the other horses

in the line. Nicholls pushes Joey on. Topthorn seems too

strong, Joey will never catch them. Nicholls is determined

not to be beaten.

He pushes Joey on. Joey digs in and finds hidden strength and

speed. He starts to catch up with Topthorn and draws along

side. Nicholls and Stewart exchange tense looks.

Stewart is amazed and pushes Topthorn harder.

Now both riders are going at their top speed. They are neck

and neck - they fight for every inch of advantage, every

fibre of their being invested in the race. Nicholls pushes

Joey on and Joey pulls away. Joey inches forward till he is

almost a length ahead of Topthorn. The effort is enormous.

Nicholls looks back at Stewart, very happy. Stewart's

frustration shows. He knows he is beaten.

Then suddenly they race over the line. Nicholls spears a ring

decorated with a blue ribbon and pulls Joey to a halt. They

have crossed the enemy line. Nicholls is ecstatic. Topthorn

comes to Joey's side.

Nicholls laughs, grinning.

The horses are nose to nose, snorting, we sense the heat, the

exertion. Topthorn and Joey are brought together by the

effort. We sense Topthorn's newly minted respect for Joey.

And Joey is no soft touch - he slightly holds his head up in

victory, letting Topthorn know that he knows he won.

The other horses come charging in. There is a real sense of

achievement and congratulation amongst the regiment.

The two men enjoy the moment of rivalry and the exhilaration

of it all. The two horses, face to face rub against each

other for the first time. A bond has been formed...

INT. OFFICERS' STUDY. DAY.

Stewart enters. A phonograph plays "Roses of Picardy." The

walls are decorated with etchings of famous battles, and a

large map of Western Europe that depicts how the English

troops are crossing the channel to confront the Germans near

Belgium. Nicholls is writing a letter - though actually at

this moment, he is making a little pencil drawing of Joey to

enclose with it.

As Stewart leaves, he passes Charlie. He casually

acknowledges him.

Charlie checks his new cap in the mirror.

He shows the bright red lining to Nicholls.

Pause. Charlie removes the cap.

Nicholls returns to his sketch.

EXT. DIRT ROAD. FRANCE.

Three hundred horses and their charges in a slow march in the

middle of the most pristine French countryside.

TITLE: FRANCE - 1914, QUIEVRECHAIN

EXT. ROAD. DAY.

Nicholls and Stewart and Charlie ride on a smooth road past a

series of posts screened with cloth. They're silhouetted

against the setting sun.

EXT. ROAD. DAY.

The regiment are tense and nervous as they gingerly make

their way along the country road. Topthorn and Joey sense

the grim change of atmosphere.

EXT. WOODLAND ABOVE A PLAIN. DAY.

They are in woodland above a plain stretching for miles. A

small table has been taken out for Stewart and his officers.

SERGEANT MAJOR SINGH - a turbaned Indian with a magnificent

moustache dressed in ceremonial garb - explains the lines of

battle on a map.

Our officers just have a second to take in the news. The day

has suddenly arrived. The day they have worked for, for so

long.

As Stewart departs:

Nicholls catches up to Stewart, concerned.

Nicholls notices Charlie nervously attending his horse.

We worry for him - he is afraid.

Stewart rides through the lines astride Topthorn.

As the cry is echoed throughout the regiment, Nicholls

accepts Joey from an attending soldier.

Nicholls takes the red campaign pennant from his pocket and

threads it through Joey's reins.

Minutes later - Stewart addresses the men.

EXT. OVER GROWN CORN FIELD. DAY.

Cut to an elegant field of tall grass, waving in the gentle

breeze. Then suddenly three hundred men seem to rise out of

it. They are in fact our soldiers, mounting their horses -

but the horses are invisible in the height of the grass.

Stewart gives a signal. We see the intense anticipation on

his face. He takes out his sabre.

The men draw their sabres in silence. The birds chirping,

oblivious.

Then Nicholls just turns to his two friends and almost

whispers...

He pats Joey's side. And then...

The regiment begins moving through the field.

The men start to float over the grass - swept along by their

invisible horses, until...

Suddenly they emerge from the tall grass - the immense power

of the galloping horses - silence explodes into a violent

crashing of hooves. The noise is immense, swords are flying

in the air. Hundreds of horses racing towards the German

encampment.

On the German side, TWO SOLDIERS wake to the sound of

hoofbeats. They pull their tent flap aside to find the

invincible charge coming towards them. The Germans are

totally unprepared. We see them scramble back towards tents,

rush towards their guns - one man pulling up his trousers

rushes for cover. One German drops some dirty dishes into a

wash pot, screaming:

Topthorn and Joey race each other like a rerun of their

practice on Salisbury Plain. The swords and uniforms glint in

the sun, the German troops look terrified - some run in

panic, others prepare to stand their ground.

The British head in for the kill, the men scream battle cries

with sheer exhilaration.

We see the horses at close quarters running with all their

might. Nicholls and Stewart yell as they approach the enemy.

The surprise attack is a huge success. The first row of

unprepared Germans are falling...

The regiment sweeps through the encampment, cutting down

soldiers and driving the rest in a panicked retreat to the

tree line.

But then we see, in the shadows of the forest behind the

A machine gun. No, a line of machine guns - at least twenty

guns, sandbagged apart - the logical, new, modern defence of

a garrison. In an instant, the fleeing Germans have manned

the guns. All now firing.

The noise of the blast of bullets drowns out everything else.

A score of men and horses are suddenly on the ground, it

happens almost so quickly Joey and Topthorn don't realize

anything's wrong and find themselves racing straight towards

the guns. The bullets keep coming, now suddenly half of the

regiment are on the ground.

Horse after horse races past the guns into the woods...all of

them now riderless.

Nicholls watches helplessly as one of the barrels swings

towards him. His face goes slack as he realizes he is about

to die.

A moment later, Joey runs on - we pan up to see he is running

on riderless - he has not realized that Nicholls is gone. The

bullets whizz around his head, but he still runs directly

ahead. We would always know him by the red pennant Nicholls

tied on his saddle.

Joey is now running through the German lines. No one bothers

to attack him as the German's concentrate their efforts on

the cavalry behind him. The line of machine guns fire as one,

decimating the horses and their riders.

Joey leaps and dances nimbly through the German ranks, but

suddenly rears up in the confusion, surrounded by Germans.

Near him, surviving English officers are hauled from their

horses.

Stewart wheels back around on Topthorn, sabre in hand. But

he, too, is quickly surrounded by several Germans with their

rifles trained on him. A furious GERMAN OFFICER storms over,

speaks perfect English:

Stewart looks at the Officer - at the guns that surround him -

and throws down his sabre, stabbing it into the ground. The

Germans take Stewart from Topthorn.

Around them, the fields are littered with dead soldiers and

horses.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD. DAY.

Topthorn appears disoriented and frightened. Suddenly, he

rears up and bolts from his new German handler, galloping

over to Joey. The horses briefly nuzzle, but both rear up

again as they are separated and led past a young German

soldier, GUNTHER.

He zeroes in on them, the finest horses.

A slightly more JUNIOR OFFICER approaches the outraged senior

officer.

Gunther, the young private, now standing behind them,

interjects.

The officers move away - that's enough talk about horses...

CUT ON - Gunther is now with Joey and Topthorn. Near a wooden

ambulance - which is like a giant wagon to carry humans. He

is with MICHAEL, a very young soldier, his brother - possibly

as young as 14.

Gunther lifts a heavy pulling harness - and tries to get

Topthorn into it.

Topthorn balks violently.

And suddenly Joey moves up and presents himself, with his

strange self assurance and self sacrifice. And instinct for

survival.

He sniffs the harness and places his head through it, which

helps to calm Topthorn enough that Gunther can slip the

collar onto the big black horse. Gunther turns to Joey,

impressed.

Gunther spots the red ribbon in Joey's saddle, removes it,

folds it, and places it in his pocket.

Later - Gunther and Michael are returning from the

battlefield with Topthorn and Joey, pulling an ambulance with

British and German wounded. Amongst the wounded, we see a

hand gripping a battered, silk lined hat. It is Waverly,

wounded but alive.

EXT. NARRACOTT'S FARM. DEVON. DAY.

Si Easton lets himself in through the gate. Ted pulls up

turnips from their three acre crop.

Rosie, just across a furrow, is also engaged in the harvest.

It's hard work. Si holds a parcel.

Albert passes carrying a crate laden with turnips, but pulls

up short when he hears:

Albert opens the parcel and pulls out a leather sketchbook...

Si Easton drops his head guiltily. Rosie catches this.

Everybody falls silent. Albert goes to the fence and looks

down at the sketches of Joey. Rosie looks at her son, her

heart breaking for him. Dad returns to the harvest without a

word. Albert looks off to the horizon and - over there.

EXT. GERMAN BASE CAMP. EVENING.

CLOSE -- A step stool.

Michael mounts the stool next to Joey and Topthorn, removes

their harnesses and carries them across the road.

Michael slips and falls into the mud. Gunther dashes over

and pulls him up just before a military convoy pulls into the

camp, running over the tack.

The BASE CAMP OFFICER appears on a motorbike.

As the soldiers hop to their orders, the officer turns to -

Both Michael and Gunther turn to him. But it's Gunther the

Officer wants to talk to.

Gunther picks up the dropped harnesses as he approaches.

He walks away. Gunther is stricken by the news, but Michael

is excited. As he leads Joey past his brother:

Gunther can't really speak. Michael is just a boy.

EXT. GERMAN CAMP / VARIOUS. EVENING.

Soldiers are lifting up their equipment - gathering - moving

in the same direction.

In a quiet tent, a few last soldiers are packing. And there

are Gunther and Michael, packing together.

The process of packing is their way of coping with the shock.

Gunther is folding one of Michael's shirts. Michael takes it

back...

He leans close to Michael, talking in almost a whisper.

Michael carries on with his packing.

And now the case is packed. Gunther heads to the tent

opening.

Looking round, the tent is now empty. The moment to leave has

come. Gunther pulls the red pennant from his pocket and

follows Michael out of the tent to where the soldiers are

lining up in the road.

Gunther ties the pennant to the back of Michael's pack as he

forms up.

Michael smiles at him and begins to march. Marching towards

Ypres, on the Western Front.

We settle on young Michael - in line - he passes Gunther. He

remains eager. But it is goodbye. These soldiers moving into

the darkness and towards death. Gunther looks on - tears in

his eyes. The two horses are uneasy - sensing tension.

A few minutes later - Gunther grabs a saddle and throws it

onto Joey's back.

Back to the soldiers.

Suddenly we see the galloping legs of two horses. They whip

past the back of the line of marching soldiers. It's clear

what is happening - Gunther is on Topthorn - and has hold of

Joey, on a loose rope, galloping beside him.

Gunther, galloping along the line of soldiers, spots what he

is looking for, a red pennant unfurled and flapping in the

wind, tied onto Michael's pack. Gunther speeds toward him.

This was his plan all along. And in an instant he is beside

him and without Michael ever realizing, he suddenly finds his

arms and legs akimbo, as he is yanked out of the line and

dragged along the ground, desperately close to Joey's

pounding hooves.

Michael looks at the soldiers beside him - he looks at the

skyline of violence ahead...but before he can decide, he

feels his brother's arm - pulling him upwards. And now, the

two of them are fully on Topthorn.

They leave a jumble of soldiers in their wake as the officers

try to restore order.

EXT. WOODS. LATER.

Michael now rides Joey, following Gunther on Topthorn. The

brothers look at each other - can't believe what they have

done - Michael is following his brother, swept along, doesn't

know if it is right.

And Michael and Joey and Gunther and Topthorn charge on to

freedom.

They spot a lonely house and burst past a line with some

drying clothes.

As they ride, they grab civilian shirts and jackets and

trousers, the clothes pegs pinging off and falling to the

ground.

And on they ride - though all too soon day starts to break in

the far distance. They see a very dilapidated windmill. They

aim for it as the sun begins to seriously break over the

horizon.

INT. / EXT. WINDMILL. DAWN.

They reach the windmill. It feels very unused. The machinery

of the windmill creaks in the dawn. The brothers untether the

horses, careful now that it is light outside.

Michael fingers the pennant on Joey's reins. Then...

Gunther looks at him - but doesn't reply. As Michael removes

Later - They sit in silence, waiting for sleep.

Gunther laughingly pushes him over.

He jokingly strokes Michael's cheek. Michael swats him away,

but as he settles in the hay:

EXT. WINDMILL. DUSK.

Gunther and Michael sleep. Suddenly something awakens Joey.

He stirs and then rises. Hear the sound of engines and see

lights through the slats sweeping across Joey's face.

Michael and Gunther are stirring in their sleep as we hear a

car and several motorcycles approaching. Head-lamps filter

through the cracks in the windmill walls stabbing the

brothers awake.

The boys spring up, speaking in terrified whispers.

They race up a nearby ladder, but Michael stumbles against a

table, upsetting some gear. It clatters loudly. They cower

as they hear boots tromping up the steps outside. Then the

windmill doors are thrown open, pinning them in the bright

headlights of the vehicles.

As they're marched out, we see what they see: A German car -

two motorcycles. Six Germans, including the officer who was

in charge of them.

He's offering an excuse, but -

The officer accepts this grimly, nods.

As the boys are taken away, he lights a cigarette.

INT. WINDMILL. NIGHT.

Through the turning arms of the windmill, we glimpse the

double execution. Four rifles fire - flashes of the soldiers

shooting - the bodies on the ground.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE WINDMILL. DAY.

Complete stillness in the empty countryside.

INT. THE WINDMILL. DAY.

There are Joey and Topthorn, still waiting.

And then suddenly - the doors of the windmill creak. The two

horses turn, immensely aware of the break in the silence. The

door opens a little - and we see, reflected in Joey's eye, a

very delicate, beautiful, thirteen-year-old country girl

(EMILIE).

She stares at the horses. They stare straight back at her.

And she walks straight out again, closing the big door behind

her. Joey and Topthorn settle for a moment.

Time transition - Joey and Topthorn are in a slightly

different place - and the door opens again. It is the same

little girl - but this time she comes in carrying two buckets

full of water.

INT. / EXT. FARMHOUSE / FARM. DAY.

A small humble farmhouse - and round it, small fields,

planted with different fruit crops. We see an old man

(GRANDFATHER), burdened with a basket of berries heading back

towards the farmhouse.

A SOUND CAUSES HIM TO LOOK OUT ACROSS THE FARM -- far in the

distance the STORM OF WAR is in the sky.

He enters the kitchen - which is rough, but full of the

paraphernalia of jam-making - jars, sieves, pectin, sugar.

Emilie is at the sink, washing berries.

He heads towards the side-board, dumps the two bags and lifts

the first handful of fruits on to the counter.

She empties her clean berries into a bowl. Notes the

explosions outside.

He retrieves a bottle of medicine from the mantle.

She pours a load of sugar into a bowl with the fruit.

He feeds her a spoonful of the medicine.

She sticks her wet finger in the sugar and sucks it to help

with the taste of the medicine.

EXT. COURTYARD. SAME.

Grandfather looks stunned as he paces in front of JOEY AND

TOPTHORN - who stand in the small courtyard outside the

house.

She kisses his cheek --

-- but then calmly leads the horses back to the windmill.

That is the end of the conversation as far as she is

concerned.

EXT. FARM HOUSE. DAY.

Emilie is with the horses in the little stable at the end of

the courtyard - a bit away from the farm house - she is

feeding them out of a bucket - not very nice gruel.... WE

SEE THAT SHE IS HESITANT WITH THEM - that she has spent no

time around horses.

INT./EXT. FIELD IN FRONT OF FARMHOUSE. DAY.

Grandfather watches Emilie from inside the house as he makes

jam.

Outside, Emilie has fashioned two jumps. The big one for Joey

and a little demonstration obstacle for herself. She leads

Joey to a starting point about 30 yards in front of some

crates supporting a stick about four feet off the ground.

The red pennant hangs from the stick. Joey stands quietly as

Emilie hobbles to the big jump, making a jumping gesture with

her hand.

Grandfather chuckles. Emilie indicates the larger barrier.

She claps, but Joey doesn't move.

She turns to her demonstration jump and easily steps over her

six-inch high barrier.

She turns to find Joey already stepping over her mini-jump,

stopping in front of her. He's only interested in the apple

in her hand. She takes a bite herself.

Emilie returns Joey to the starting line and runs back behind

the big jump. From behind her back she produces three big

carrots dripping soil. Joey's ears perk and he takes off

quickly but at the last moment veers right and passes between

the two jumps.

INT. FARMHOUSE. DAY.

Grandfather is watching through the window as he prepares his

strawberry jams. He laughs and goes back to work.

BACK TO FIELD

Aware she's being watched, she slings the carrots over her

shoulder, frustrated.

EXT. BARN. LATER.

Joey slowly emerges from the barn with Emilie out in front

leading him with one hand. In the other hand, she carries a

small wooden step ladder.

Emilie unfolds the ladder beside Joey and shakily starts

climbing to the top of it.

Before she can swing her leg over Joey's back -

Emilie turns, and there, blocking the hurdle, now standing

hands on hips, is Grandfather.

A SOUND from far down the road. Grandfather looks. Emilie

turns to look too. Two trucks led by a German motorcycle are

approaching the farm.

As Emilie races off with the horses, Grandfather pushes over

the jumps and jams the pennant into his pocket.

The bikes arrive first, just missing Emilie as she leads the

horses behind the house.

The trucks arrive, pull round - one of the soldiers in the

front jumps out and opens the back.

The people - 20 of them, all seeming to be poor French

peasants, mainly women, move out of the truck. As they walk

past, they avoid the eye of the Grandfather, who approaches

the soldiers.

And suddenly we see what is going to happen - the 20 peasants

spread out and move through the field - with either bags, or

using the aprons they wear - picking all the fruits - at just

the moment all the work has brought forth fruit - and the new

year's crop is ready.

Raspberries, black-currants, gooseberries. In a few minutes,

everything he lives by will be gone.

Watching from his car and calmly smoking a cigar is BRANDT,

the officer in charge of the unit.

Cut to the fields - the aprons and baskets are getting full.

They move through the rows of fruit like a plague of locusts.

Back to the Grandfather - and out of the house comes Emilie.

Pause.

The sound of jars breaking draws Grandfather and Emilie into

the kitchen, where the Germans continue to raid their other

supplies.

One German picks up waterbath canner -- inspecting it.

Brandt sits quietly, casually using his finger to scoop jam

from an open jar.

Emilie enters, overhearing.

The German nods and is about to take his leave, putting the

pot back where he found it, when a clumping noise from

somewhere in the house begins.

Brandt licks his finger and tests:

Emilie runs out of the room. The soldier picks up the

medicine bottle.

The soldier looks shocked and then begins to laugh. He slaps

the medicine flask into Grandfather's chest.

He slings the huge pot he had put back up on his shoulder and

leaves the house with the other soldiers.

As the Germans leave, we cut to the upstairs bedroom where

Emilie lies curled up on the bed - and there, standing on

either side of the bed - are the two horses. They look huge

in the tiny room.

INT. KITCHEN. LATE THAT NIGHT.

The sound of shells exploding. A huge bombardment somewhere

in the deep distance. But much closer than before. The

distant, malicious giants of war growl.

It is like a lightning storm on the horizon.

The kitchen has been emptied. The war has finally come to

them - and we can see it on Emilie's face.

Grandfather doesn't respond.

She finally turns to face him.

He eases himself into a chair and shrugs.

Emilie sheds a single tear.

INT. THE BARN. DAWN.

Grandfather enters the barn, strokes Topthorn's nose as he

passes. He sweeps aside a rug from the barn floor, to reveal

a trap door. Then, he opens it.

Now from out of the trap door, he lifts a big ungainly

object, covered in another rug.

INT. FARMHOUSE KITCHEN. MORNING.

Emilie comes down the stairs as Grandfather waits proudly by

the stove. She stops when she sees the OBJECT COVERED BY THE

RUG.

Emilie moves toward the object that is covered.

Then she stops herself and turns to Grandfather with a

parental rebuke.

The grandfather smiles and gives Emily a hug.

He leaves the room. Now Emilie is alone and she can't help it

when she brings her eyes back to the object covered by the

rug. She looks back over her shoulder to make sure she's not

being watched and then lifts one corner of the rug. Her face

explodes with a gorgeous smile. She pulls off the rug that

is covering the big thing and...it is a gorgeous old saddle.

She runs her hand along the saddle -- can hardly believe it.

INT. A HILL. JUST BEYOND THE FARMHOUSE. NEAR THE WINDMILL.

DAY.

Grandfather helps to swing Emilie up and into the saddle.

All at once, the Grandfather's charity evaporates.

Emilie unties her hair and tosses the red pennant to

Grandfather, releasing her hair to spill down her back and

shoulder.

She sets off on Joey - and quickly spurs him to a gallop.

She rides - past the windmill - and then over the top of a

nearby hill - she speeds over it and out of sight.

Back to the hill - a sudden change of mood. An empty shot. No

movement, no returning girl.

Cut again to the top of the hill, then back to the

Grandfather, very worried.

Topthorn suddenly rears up - and charges off following,

sensing danger. Grandfather starts to run in the direction of

the hill.

Topthorn charging over the brow of the hill.

The Grandfather running - out of breath.

He hears an indistinct scream from Emilie!

He reaches the top of the hill - comes over the brow - and

there is not the fallen body of Emilie, which he has been

fearing, but a brutal line of German soldiers - and

motorbikes. It is like a line of Indians in a Western -

total, alien fear.

And there amongst them is Emilie, astride a panicked Joey,

surrounded by soldiers. Another one holds Topthorn, who bucks

and rears, but to no avail. Grandfather starts down the hill

towards his granddaughter.

EXT. GERMAN COLUMN NEAR THE WINDMILL. THE SAME

The Germans are moving through the horses they have gathered.

Emilie, unhorsed, tries to get to Joey, who is being roughly

led away by a German soldier.

Grandfather grabs her. She is screaming. He tries to calm her

down. Joey is tied up as is Topthorn. Emilie is kicking and

screaming - but also desperately short of breath.

A soldier roughly shoves Emilie at him.

Brandt approaches. Emilie screams at him, in tears.

Emilie is still sobbing. Grandfather hugs her - in horror

that she is now struggling so hard for breath.

The motorbikes start up and drive off. The Grandfather

hugging tiny Emilie as she coughs.

The Germans disappear up the lane leaving the old man and the

child bereft in the bitter cold.

EXT. GERMAN CAMP. LATER.

Two grooms trail Brandt, leading Joey and Topthorn toward a

makeshift corral.

FRIEDRICH is an unprepossessing, chubby man. He marvels at

Topthorn.

But then he looks to the other horses penned nearby, haggard

and weak. He turns to Joey.

He takes the leads of the pair of them. He sighs...

In a strange way, there are many humans Joey meets, but also

just one, the spirit of goodness and consideration for

animals, joined by little echoes throughout the film.

And then they go over a ridge - and we suddenly see the

explanation of Friedrich's comment. The road they can see

below them is the main through road of the area - and it is a

scene of horse horror - huge, massive guns and cannons and

artillery being dragged by teams of horses that are in a

terrible condition.

For Joey and Topthorn, this is a moment like when soldiers

arrived to liberate the prisoners who had been kept in Changi

prison by the Japanese during World War 2. They have never

seen horses in this condition. You can see in their eyes the

confusion. This is a whole different world, where horses can

turn into creatures that look like this.

And it is also a vision of their future. This may be the

moment the mighty Topthorn begins to lose hope. For Joey it

is another level of knowledge - another mighty thing he will

fight through - because he always fights through.

EXT. STEEP INCLINE. DAY.

Friedrich leads Joey and Topthorn in the wake of THE HUGE

MORSER - an elaborate 15 ton monstrosity with a six inch

bore. It takes a team of six horses to haul it with a dozen

men pushing from behind.

A soldier calls from the front of the heavy cannon - pulled

by a particularly wretched group of horses.

Lower down the hill, Friedrich waves down the rest of the

column.

At the front of the Morser, one of the lead horses collapses -

he will never get up again.

Brandt steps up, pulls a revolver out of his pocket and

shoots the horse dead. It has come to this.

Joey, Topthorn, and all the other horses are spooked by the

pistol shot.

Brandt shouts to Friedrich from the road.

Friedrich begins leading Joey up the hill, but --

Friedrich hauls Topthorn, hesitantly, while Joey watches.

As he reaches Brandt:

Friedrich has no choice but as he starts to lead Topthorn,

Joey rears up and escapes his groom. He gallops up the hill

to the gun - offering himself up to save Topthorn. It is his

"Tale of Two Cities" moment - giving up his life to save his

friend. He bucks and rears. Friedrich turns to Brandt.

Brandt takes up Friedrich, and Joey's, offer -

As Joey is hooked to the gun, he looks back to Friedrich who

leads Topthorn back down the hill.

EXT. STEEP INCLINE. LATER.

The convoy struggles up the hill. Joey feels the dead weight

of the gun. These are several tons of cast iron - almost

dwarfing the horses. Friedrich notices. Together, this grim

circus struggles along the pot-holed country road in the

rain.

Joey leads the team up the incline. Each step is an immense

effort. The going, over rough scree, is very tough indeed. It

is very difficult for Joey to get a foothold on the loose

ground, but his experience in Dartmoor comes into play and

although he almost loses his balance several times he stays

upright and hauls the cannon - Fitzcarraldo-like - over the

hill.

We follow his progress step by step. Friedrich watches

anxiously. Soldiers strain at the sides of the gun. One

throws boards under the wheels to aid in traction. As they

reach the top of the hill it almost seems the effort is too

much, the cannon always in danger of rolling back. Joey

finally staggers over the top - it feels as though the

tethers are going to snap with the strain - but at last the

cannon reaches the peak, the crest of the hill.

EXT. THE BATTLEFIELD. DAY.

Soldiers scurry around the giant gun, preparing it.

Friedrich observes with Topthorn as a giant shell is carried

to the gun's breech.

The men wrestle it into place -

- and secure it.

The barrel of the giant gun ratchets upward.

The shell explodes from the barrel. And then from another.

And another. For the first time we see the big picture - the

line of assembled cannons of which they were just one tiny

part.

Each gun recoils violently as they shoot their shells into

oblivion - as soon as one shell is fired another is loaded -

the noise is deafening - the line seemingly endless - an

obscene production line of death. This is what the horses

have been feeding - this massive merciless thing.

Smoke wafts from the guns as we see the explosions in the

distance. The sound of the explosions takes us to -

EXT. BRITISH TRENCH. NIGHT.

Explosions light the dirty faces of British boys in uniform,

one after the next. Each light fading out before the next

great blast illuminates another anonymous face -then another -

and then another - and then ALBERT. Hold on him for extra

moments before he fades completely.

EXT. BRITISH TRENCHES. EARLY DAWN.

TITLE: FRANCE - 1918, THE SOMME

With the barrage lifted, the British soldiers that are

huddled in a low sub-trench, are ordered back on the line.

Andrew Easton is with Albert and he's shaken and terrified. A

far cry from the happy young boy we knew.

A gruff sergeant (SERGEANT MARTIN) walks the trench with a

bucket and each soldier puts in their valuables and personal

belongings. One a lighter, some money, etc.

Albert and Andrew move down the trench in a line of soldiers

who are given ammo belts and grenades.

Albert gets his grenades and walks further along the

trenches. We follow him in real time as he passes a bunch of

soldiers who are kneeling in the ankle deep water, a PADRE is

giving them communion. The deafening noise of shelling all

around.

We keep following Albert's progress in real time - further on

there is a post box where they all put their final letters

home in identical green envelopes. We see Albert's letter

addressed to "Ted and Rose Narracott" in Devon. He posts it

in a battered metal post box.

An officer approaches:

It is David - Lyon's son - now in charge of this small group

of men. Still arrogant - looking older than Albert in his

uniform - and clearly enjoying his superior rank.

Albert ignores him. Andrew can't help but giggle.

David takes up a bucket and walks down the line of soldiers.

Albert follows David down the trench.

Albert nods.

Andrew laughs amiably. David points to him, smirking.

As David walks on, Andrew smiles at Albert.

Albert leaves without answering. Andrew keeps smiling until

a large shell explodes nearby. Troops surge towards their

ladders as officers scream indistinct orders.

Now David leads his troop through the trenches to the front

line where they stop, lean against the enemy-side wall

nervously and wait - each man in private contemplation.

Sergeant Martin moves along the lines, pushing men forward.

David calls out from atop a trench ladder.

The echo of `fix bayonets' goes down the line - and every man

fixes the brutal shining bayonet to the end of his gun.

Then Albert turns to Andrew.

He nods at David Lyons, who gives instructions to another

soldier.

David turns to Albert and Andrew.

They both smile. And then the fear takes over again. Andrew

particularly feels as though he is on the very edge now.

David urges them forward.

Andrew and Albert pass by the bucket. They throw some

valuables in. But a moment later, Albert goes back to the

bucket and pulls something out - a worn piece of paper - he

unfolds it - it is the little sketch that Captain Nicholls

drew of Joey the night before they left for France. He slips

it inside his shirt, next to his heart.

Andrew turns towards a ladder. As fate and placement would

have it - he is first in line. He puts his foot on the

ladder, when suddenly the Sergeant stops him.

He pulls Andrew aside, speaking so that everyone can hear.

The sergeant pushes in on Andrew, private and intense.

Andrew looks ready to cry, but manages to nod. Albert turns

to him, only to be pushed back by the sergeant.

Albert looks nervously back at Albert, comforting.

The COMMANDER arrives, checks the time on his AIDE's watch,

mounts his ladder and blows a whistle to signal the charge.

A BAGPIPER plays as the men go over the top.

David now heads up the ladder first. Gun fire overhead,

Albert steels himself, then hauls himself over the top,

followed by the next man and the next.

Immediately machine gun fire whistles past, we hear the

screams of the first men who are shot. We follow Albert.

We are him. His vision. His experience. The ground is

blasted, there are bodies all around him. He tries to run but

his feet sink into the mud. Bullets fly past him. Felled men

are screaming at his feet in fear and agony. Albert staggers

forward. David is now right by him. They run together. Albert

looks round and suddenly, David is hit. He falls to the

ground, screaming.

Albert instinctively goes to help. Bullets shower all around

him.

Albert grabs him and drags him onwards with him - David

screaming at the pain - Albert grimly determined. Shells

explode around them as they stumble on. Other men are

running and falling. Albert sees cover in a huge shell-hole

so dives into it for a moment's reprieve from the gun fire.

He sits in still terror for a moment.

David looks at Albert as though seeing him for the first

time.

Albert races onward.

Back at the trench, Andrew waits - terrified - and then, back

out of the mist step two men - heading back towards him. Then

a third. They suddenly catch sight of Andrew waiting there

with his gun pointed towards them. They slow down - in the

terror of the assault, they had forgotten that death was

waiting for them if they turned back.

Time seems to slow down - Andrew shifts his gun from pointing

at one - to the other - we see their individual faces. They

are all just boys really.

And suddenly, instinct hits Andrew - he charges up the

ladder, and forward, firing - past the three men, towards the

enemy. He chooses his death instead of theirs. A sudden

barrage of machine gun fire all around him.

Cut back to Albert, who makes his way to the edge of the

shell hole. Bullets whizz inches from his head. He looks over

to see a German machine gun position to his right. Bullets

whizz past forcing him to duck.

Andrew charges past other soldiers, ignoring their warnings.

Albert continues forward to dive into another shell hole,

nearer to the German line. He scrambles from shell hole to

shell hole. Now he's very close to the machine gun position.

Albert takes a grenade, fumbles with the pin as his hands

tremble. He finally gets the pin out and he hurls the

grenade at the machine gunner. We see the explosion and the

machine gun stop. Albert sprints over the top again and makes

it all the way into the German trench.

Albert runs through the trench, which seems curiously empty.

Albert swings round as he sees the startling face of a gas-

masked German holding a rifle on him.

Albert readies his bayonet but the man is dead, slumped

backwards against the side of the trench still upright.

Albert spins round, his bayonetted rifle in front of him,

ready for action, but there is only the ghostly sight of dead

German soldiers.

Albert is alone, everyone else is dead. All the dead wear

gas masks.

More British soldiers drop into the trench, among them

Andrew. He stumbles in the mud, drops his rifle, recovers

it, and races through the trench.

He glimpses Albert ahead of him, stalking through the mist.

Andrew breaks into a smile and rushes forward, prompting

Albert to whirl with his rifle raised.

Albert pauses just in time. Then he collapses against the

side of the trench, overwhelmed.

Andrew grabs Albert and holds him up, embracing him. Albert

can barely whisper:

A moment later, the pair of them hurry through the trenches.

Albert spots more comrades around a corner and calls ahead to

Andrew.

Suddenly ANOTHER SOLDIER leaps from a trench branch between

them, shouting in panic.

An instant later, a gas cloud blasts through the trench.

Andrew and Albert look in horror. It spreads towards them,

too powerful to avoid. Andrew is closest, turns to Albert

with a helpless -

- before he takes the full power of it. An instant later, the

white, deadly cloud encompasses Albert, too...

EXT. EDGE OF THE BATTLEFIELDS. DUSK.

Close on hooves and boots, slogging through muddy water,

several inches deep.

Friedrich is walking along, leading Topthorn and Joey.

Topthorn is limping.

Something is wrong - Topthorn seems to be failing - he coughs

badly, breathes strangely. Friedrich stops to check on him.

An officer notices.

Instead, Friedrich leads the horses under the cover of a low

bridge for a brief respite. A moment later, Topthorn

collapses.

Friedrich tries to help Topthorn valiantly struggling to get

up but finally sinks to the ground again. This time he lies

semi-conscious. He is dying.

Joey deeply upset nuzzles his nose into Topthorn but the life

drains out him. Friedrich is in panic at Topthorn's quick

Friedrich continues to stroke Topthorn's head. Joey pushes

Topthorn as if to stop him falling into unconsciousness. For

a moment we think Topthorn will come round but he slips away

and all life leaves his body. Friedrich solemnly strokes the

horse, knowing all is lost.

Joey does not understand. He pulls at Topthorn's reins, as if

trying to pull him upright. Topthorn's body is inert, his

head falls to the earth. Joey will not give up, he pulls at

him desperately not understanding that Topthorn has died.

Suddenly, Friedrich looks around. Chaos - all the German

soldiers stream back past their position, scrambling to get

their guns and helmets. An officer charges down the bank next

to the bridge, screaming orders at Friedrich.

Friedrich tries to pull Joey away to safety but Joey will not

leave Topthorn's body. Friedrich pulls at Joey, but Joey is

too lost in his grief to care about or even notice the

danger.

The officer nods to two other soldiers who pull Friedrich to

safety. As he's dragged away, he screams at Joey:

But this is all background noise to Joey's profound refusal

to accept Topthorn is dead. He paws at the ground next to

Topthorn, a horse standing over his best friend in a field,

and he will never leave him.

And then suddenly - from around a blind turn in the

streambed, a huge, remorseless tank turns, heading right for

Joey. He bolts, galloping down the streambed, until he

reaches a barbed wire barrier - a dead end. He attempts to

run up the banks, but they're blocked, as well. He rears up,

but the tank keeps advancing.

The tank is about to crush Joey. He has left it too late. He

is about to die.

But then, counter-intuitively, he runs straight towards the

tank and...leaps over it - a leap he learnt from Emilie. Then

scrambles up and over it and leaps down behind.

Joey keeps on running. He is wild, frightened.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE / VILLAGE / TRENCH. THE SAME.

Joey is free - in countryside - but there is blood pouring

from his leg, clearly torn by his encounter with the tank. He

runs on - it is becoming night - suddenly there are

explosions to the left of him - this fast, elegant creature

simply runs through the gaps between explosions.

But as he charges on - the sky lights up in the direction he

is heading. He is suddenly in the thick of battle. A shell

explodes next to him, and he leaps entirely over a trench.

Another explosion sends him leaping, but not far enough - he

finds himself crashing downwards, and into a trench - and he

races through it - and finds himself charging towards a

German company. Both sides are equally startled - Joey

charging through a thin trench lined with German soldiers -

the soldiers, finding a live horse careering through them.

In desperation, Joey scrambles out of the trench - and once

again, rushes away from the fighting...

But now it is very dark indeed - he is stumbling as he runs -

there is blood mixed with the mud on his legs.

Now it is total night - fog - confusion - he jumps again. And

now everywhere there are potholes - the land is massively

uneven - shells are exploding all around. And suddenly sees

in front of him barbed wire. He crashes through it - more -

he bursts through again - now dragging barriers behind him -

the barriers tangle, pulling him up short - he flips and

lands amongst even more barbed wire.

He pulls and turns to release himself but it is impossible.

The more he pulls, the more firmly he is trapped. He rises

up, wild, magnificent, a beast fighting for his life.

He is completely trapped. He cannot move. He cannot see. He

is in pain. He falls. It feels like an end.

EXT. BRITISH TRENCH. THE SAME.

A young soldier, a Geordie, is on look-out duty. He looks

through a periscope. He alerts his colleague in his thick,

northern, Newcastle accent.

He passes the periscope to the second soldier.

We see what he sees - nothing but morning mist on the surreal

landscape - and something strange. It is Joey in the distance

EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME.

We see an almost identical scene of several German soldiers

looking out at Joey just as the British soldiers had done.

The first German looks through his periscope. We see what he

sees - Joey in the mist:

The second German looks through the periscope, stunned.

A third German (PETER) lowers his binoculars.

EXT. BRITISH TRENCHES. THE SAME.

Now all the soldiers are gathering to look out at Joey. A

CAPTAIN now has the periscope.

The Geordie starts clicking his tongue, followed by all of

his comrades. They all try to attract Joey's attention with

tongue clicks.

EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME.

The Germans hear the clicks and respond with a chorus of

whistles.

EXT. BRITISH TRENCHES. THE SAME.

Now both sides are whistling. Even the captain joins in.

EXT. NO MAN'S LAND. THE SAME.

Joey tries to rise, but remains entangled. He whinnies in

pain.

EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME.

Peter lowers his binoculars.

EXT. BRITISH TRENCHES, THE SAME.

Geordie climbs up the side of the trench, and waves a white

handkerchief tied to the end of his bayonet.

Geordie, not receiving fire, is emboldened to stand up.

He waves the handkerchief to clearly signal he is no threat.

EXT. GERMAN TRENCH. THE SAME.

The Germans look at the young soldier making his way over No

Man's Land.

The second German cocks his rifle and starts to take aim.

The second German takes a shot aimed over the Geordie's

shoulder.

EXT. NO MAN'S LAND. THE SAME.

The Geordie crouches for cover, waving his handkerchief more

frantically.

The Georgie marshals his courage and stands again, waving the

handkerchief.

There's no fire from the German trenches. Muttering to

himself, the Geordie marches forward towards Joey:

The Geordie walks very slowly across the mud - there are

bodies - the ground squelches beneath his feet. He waves his

handkerchief as he walks. He crosses a narrow bridge that

spans a flooded bomb crater.

Joey, lying on his side, wrapped head to toe in barbed wire,

covered in mud, watches Geordie approach. When Geordie gets

too close, Joey freaks out and begins thrashing about. Joey

whinnies a high scream of pain, because wire is cutting into

his hide in several places, and as he thrashes it cuts him

deeper. Particularly worrisome is a strand that's wrapped

around his head, crossing right over his eye, threatening to

slash it. The Geordie calls out in a soothing voice:

Joey calms a little, still moving his head up and down.

He reaches Joey and surveys the formidable tangle of wire in

which Joey's bundled. The Geordie soothes and at the same

time gingerly tests other strands, trying to figure out where

to begin.

He stabs his hand on one of the barbs.

There's a noise behind him, and the Geordie turns around to

see the Peter (the German from the trench) standing several

feet away, holding some wire cutters.

He holds out the wire cutters. The Geordie, still

frightened, stares stupidly at them.

He reaches out and takes the proffered cutters.

He returns to Joey, nervous about turning his back. He tries

to figure out where to begin cutting. He lifts a long strand

of wire that wraps around Joey's neck, stretches across his

shoulder and torso and around one of his front legs. He puts

the wire in the crux of the cutters and is preparing to snip

when Peter steps closer to him.

He points to a wire wrapped around the wire the Geordie's

lifting. Then he points to two other wires, similarly

The Geordie nods.

The Geordie hands them over and Peter surveys the wires.

He points to one of the wires entangled with the strand he'd

been prepared to cut.

Peter stands and shouts in the direction of his trench.

All at once one, two, three, six pairs of cutters come

soaring through the air and splash into the watery crater.

Moments later - Peter and the Geordie kneel beside Joey, each

with a pair of cutters.

Joey is calming down again.

The Geordie positions himself across Joey's body so that when

he's cut the wire, it won't coil back and cut Joey. Peter

positions himself to be able to cut the two wires in quick

succession, holding the first wire to stop it from springing

back.

Joey's completely still now.

Peter points between Joey's eyes.

He points to wires that intersect the wire that crosses

Joey's eye. Then he points to the wire across Joey's eye.

As they reposition themselves, the Geordie says to Joey:

The Geordie looks into Joey's huge eye as he and Peter get to

work on their cutting. Joey returns his gaze.

They laugh.

Both men smile at this while Joey is completely still; they

work quickly, in concert, cutting the horse's head free of

the wire.

Joey raises his head, gives it a shake, neighs and then stirs

a little. The two soldiers smile at one another. Then they

set about cutting the rest of the wire; it's much easier now.

The Geordie cuts through the last wire binding Joey's legs.

The two soldiers help as the horse staggers upright.

The Geordie grabs hold of Joey's halter, though Joey shows no

sign of running.

Joey is finally free.

The two men look at each other.

The Geordie smiles.

He takes a coin from his pocket, hands it to the Geordie, who

looks at it.

He flips the coin back to Peter.

Peter spins it in the air and lets it fall into the mud. They

look down. Peter shakes his head, resigned.

They collect their helmets as snow begins to blow around

them.

He hands back the cutters.

He notices the Geordie has offered his hand, as well. A

beat, then Peter shakes with him.

Peter tosses Geordie his cutters.

Peter nods, and walks back to his trench. As he goes, the

Geordie calls after him:

As he walks away, Peter turns back briefly, calling:

The Geordie leads Joey towards the British trenches.

EXT. TRENCHES. THE SAME.

Joey is now in the trenches, splashing about in the ankle

deep water. He seems enormous in this cramped labyrinth. He

is led past the broken and wounded soldiers who look at him

with amazement, dumbfounded. It is a surreal image. The horse

where horses shouldn't be.

As Joey makes his journey through the trenches soldiers

excitedly gather to watch him come by, taking pleasure in the

saving of this single life.

EXT. TRENCHES. THE SAME.

We arrive at a section we recognise as the place from where

Albert set off only the night before. Sergeant Martin is

there - as one man helps a wounded soldier into a medical

area. It is David, hobbling and looking shell-shocked.

Another wounded soldier approaches, but Martin waves him on.

David is seated next to Albert, who now seems in worse

condition. His eyes are bandaged and he's wheezing. Andrew

is nowhere to be seen. As a MEDICAL OFFICER checks Albert:.

The medic moves to Sergeant Martin, looking stricken.

EXT. HOSPITAL AREA. LATER.

Joey is led into the hospital area beyond the trenches. The

Geordie leads him through the snowy streets. Bandaged men

strewn around, wounded soldiers waiting for attention.

The waiting soldiers gather to view the strange spectacle of

the horse.

At one of the dressing areas, a NURSE tends to Albert's

damaged eyes. Behind him, we see Joey pass in the street,

but Albert doesn't know it.

Joey limps, his foreleg clearly injured. The Geordie soldier

stops outside a makeshift hospital. Joey looks frail and

exhausted.

A DOCTOR storms over from his patients.

Geordie strokes Joey as the Doctor examines him.

The Doctor heads back into the hospital, dismissive.

The doctor absorbs his earnest appeal.

EXT. INTENSIVE CARE TENT. SAME.

Elsewhere, a line of soldiers waiting for medical assistance

are curious about what is going on. Blinded by gas, eyes

bandaged, one of them turns toward the commotion. It is

Albert.

Albert lies there, but can't let go of the thought:

EXT. HOSPITAL AREA. SAME.

Joey stands - breathing very deeply. The Doctor touches his

wounded leg.

The men from all over the medical area gather around Joey

concerned about their new hero's pain.

The doctor looks at the Geordie and frowns shaking his head

"no."

The Geordie is broken hearted.

The Doctor sadly addresses a nearby Sergeant.

The doctor nods his head towards Joey. The sergeant, SERGEANT

FRY, takes his gun from his holster, checks that it's loaded.

He turns to some nearby NURSES, urging them away.

Total silence from the crowd who have gathered. They thought

they were there to see something wonderful. And now they find

that they've gathered for an execution - but can't take their

eyes off it. The Sergeant waves them back.

The Geordie is the last to step away from Joey. The sergeant

draws breath - before he steps forward to take aim. Joey is

totally still, sensing the atmosphere.

The sergeant cocks his pistol.

Suddenly there is a strange owl like whistle from fifty yards

away. Joey looks around startled.

The sergeant turns Joey's head back around, raises his pistol

once more.

Then, the whistle again. Even the doctor notices this time.

Joey turns. Slowly, the crowd parts - another owl whistle -

and we see Albert, his eyes bandaged - walking forward

blindly - guided by the hands of the crowd.

One soldier urges Albert gently.

One more whistle.

And this time, Joey trots over to Albert. The horse nuzzles

into him. Albert can't see Joey but he touches him.

He strokes Joey's mane. Joey responds, becoming very still.

The Doctor approaches with the Geordie.

The Geordie shakes his head, no. The Doctor speaks to Albert,

gently; clearly he thinks he's dealing with a traumatized,

possibly crazy soldier.

Albert, realizing he's being addressed, turns to the doctor.

He makes the shape of a diamond with his hands. The doctor

turns to the orderly.

The Geordie looks around, spots a bucket of water, grabs it

and uses a rag to clean Joey's legs, revealing the socks. The

Geordie looks at the doctor.

The doctor takes a rag himself and wipes Joey's snout,

revealing the white diamond mark.

The Sergeant takes this in...and holsters his pistol.

The doctor steps up to him.

With one last amazed look at Albert and Joey, the doctor

returns to the hospital area.

Moments later - Albert, the Geordie, and Sergeant Fry all

lead Joey through the snowy street together.

EXT. MESS HALL. EARLY MORNING.

Sergeant Fry strides into the middle of the throng of

soldiers.

Shock from the troops. Strangely muted. Not the explosion of

emotion you might have expected.

Albert enters, his eyes still red, but no longer bandaged.

And, in the distance, the church bells ring.

INT. STABLES. THE SAME.

Joey stands tall, eating some hay, now healed.

INT. FIELD OFFICE. DAY.

Complete change of atmosphere. Silence. Tension. Albert

stands at attention with Sergeant Fry. A severe Major is

behind his desk.

INT. STABLES, DAY.

Albert puts on a brave face as he collects Joey and leads him

out of the stables in silence.

EXT. THE STABLES, THE SAME.

As Albert comes out the men have gathered. There's a strange

sense of optimism, for such a gloomy moment. The Geordie

comes up to Albert and hands him a sheaf of pound notes.

The Geordie flashes a sly wink.

He turns to indicate David Lyons, who nods at Albert

solemnly.

Albert is amazed. He is about to show his gratitude when the

sergeant major shouts:

Albert snaps to attention and begins to lead Joey out of the

parade ground with the other horses.

As they walk off, the sergeant silently adds some of his own

money to the notes in Albert's hand.

EXT. MARKET PLACE. DAY.

The intense bustle of the market. Farmers are gathered,

bidding for horses.

A groom leads Joey to the auction pen with other horses.

INT. AUCTION PEN. THE SAME.

Albert waits anxiously, the Geordie lad by his side, as Joey

is led into the pen.

The auctioneer starts the bidding on Joey.

The farmers seem disinterested, shaking of heads. The bidding

starts. Five pounds, six, seven, now it goes slowly, eight,

nine, ten. Albert looks pleased at how it's going. He feels

the cash in his hand. It seems to stick on ten, then a new

hand comes up at the back of the auction - it is a nasty

looking moustached man.

Sergeant Fry scowls.

He looks daggers at the Butcher.

The men are all looking very worried... There's not much

left.

Then, from the back, another, new French voice...

He steps to the front of the crowd, and suddenly we see who

it is. It is Emilie's Grandfather.

Everyone looks at Albert who is devastated. Albert is

reeling. He hears the auctioneer repeat the final amount and

brings down his gavel.

The soldiers slowly disperse, leaving Albert to stare at

Joey. It really is all over.

EXT. THE AUCTION. THE SAME.

The Grandfather finishes paying for Joey. Albert and the

Geordie stand in front of the grandfather.

The Grandfather goes to Joey and takes his reins.

He pauses, briefly, to collect himself.

The Grandfather leads Joey away. Joey pulls, firmly but not

wildly, on the rein the grandfather's holding. The

grandfather lets go.

He watches as Joey walks to Albert and nuzzles him. They have

a moment together. The Grandfather watches carefully.

Albert puts his face right near Joey - speaks gently.

Grandfather softens and begins to wonder about this soldier.

He leads Joey back to the Grandfather.

He quietly hands over the reins.

The grandfather looks at Albert, then takes the regimental

pennant from his pocket:

Albert's amazed.

Grandfather hands Albert the pennant.

Albert takes the pennant and looks at it, his eyes filling

with tears.

He hands Albert Joey's reins. Albert turns to face him,

almost mute with disbelief. He reaches for his money.

Grandfather laughs, then turns and slowly walks away.

Albert gently embraces Joey.

EXT. FIELD. DEVON. DUSK.

Suddenly, we are back in the village in Devon, in the fold of

the valley. Dusk light. A figure approaches, silhouetted

against the setting sun.

Mrs. Naracott gathers the harvest, then notices as the figure

makes its way up the road to the farm.

A man in uniform. On a magnificent horse. Mrs. Narracott

meets them at the gate and we can finally see them clearly -

Albert and Joey.

Albert dismounts and removes his cap. An instant later, Mrs.

Narracott is hugging him for all that her life is worth.

EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE FIELD. DEVON. THE SAME.

Ted sees them and makes his way to the field gate...shaky.

Albert approaches, and stops a slight distance away.

Ted opens the gate to stand before his son. Albert slips

something from his pocket and lets it unfurl in his hand -

Ted's campaign pennant.

Ted accepts it quietly, then offers his hand to Albert. They

shake, as men. And then slowly embrace, as father and son.

Mrs. Narracott joins them as Joey looks on - a small family

and a beautiful horse, finally home.

