OVER BLACK:

In the darkness, we hear the solitary sound of a HEARTBEAT,

resounding like a drum.

Muffled sounds, as if underwater, echo: CLANGING swords, the

guttural CRIES of combat.

Eyes closed, floating at peace within red glow of the womb.

Suddenly, a flash of steel, as a sword pierces the womb, its

tip not an inch from the baby's head.

As the sword is ripped out, light streams in from outside, we

travel with it, into the DIN of BATTLE.

EXT. CIMMERIA - MUDDY FIELD - DAY

A blonde-haired, armored AESIR RAIDER withdraws the bloody

sword from the stomach of ISLENE, a wild-maned Cimmerian

beauty, many months pregnant, now clutching her bloody

stomach.

Across a muddy battlefield, the air a maelstrom of falling

snowflakes and embers from trees aflame, the powerfully built

CORIN rallies his fellow CIMMERIANS, until he spots Islene.

Wielding a broadsword, runes etched into its surface, Corin

cuts a bloody path through his enemies, his eyes never

leaving Islene.

The Aesir standing over Islene LAUGHS as she claws at the

earth behind her, trying to pull herself away.

Islene's hand reaches back once again -- and it finds a

fallen warrior's SWORD. In one fluid motion she swings the

sword around her body and drives it into the gap in the

Aesir's armor -- at his groin.

The Aesir HOWLS in agony, raising his sword to deliver the

killing blow -- when another sword pierces his chest. The

Aesir falls, revealing Corin standing behind him.

Corin throws aside his horned helmet, and falls to his knees

beside Islene, checking her wound. When he pulls his hands

back they are coated in blood.

Their eyes meet. Torment. Loss. They both know. She pulls a

knife from the folds of her pelts, puts it in his hand.

Islene looks to her naked belly. The baby inside presses

against its womb, a visible impression on her flesh.

Islene's eyes flutter as she struggles. Corin lowers the

knife. Islene's eyes lock with Corin's as he puts the knife

to use. Never once does she scream.

A moment later, Corin lifts the crying, blood-covered BOY up

through the falling snowflakes to Islene's lap.

She shares one kiss with her child, its first taste not of

mother's milk, but of her blood.

The boy's eyes are as deep and blue as the Eastern Sea.

TITLE CARD: CONAN

EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY

A small Cimmerian village lies in a heavily forested valley,

a redoubt from the icy mountains surrounding it.

Round wooden huts surround a stone-lined pit, where young

CIMMERIAN BOYS, ages 12-15 stand. Pollen drifts through the

air, giving it an ethereal haze.

At the center of the pit URAN, an elder Cimmerian warrior

speaks.

Uran stops at the end of the line, where a boy stands a good

two heads smaller than the rest. He is no more than eight,

but his face is as stoic, driven.

CONAN, determined, doesn't move an inch. The LARGEST TEEN

menacingly steps up to the smaller boy.

The hulking teen goes to shove Conan, but Conan pulls his arm

towards him, lashing out with his other hand, punching the

teen in the throat.

The large boy goes down hard, hands and knees, gasping for

air.

A smattering of LAUGHS erupt from the boys, quickly silenced

by Uran's stare. Uran hands out RIVER STONES to each boy,

ending with Conan. The boys know what to do: they put the

large stones in their mouths.

The boys look at each other, sizing up the competition.

And off they run. They knock each other down, punching the

other's stomachs, each trying to force the other to expel

their stones. One or two succeed.

Most of the remaining boys run for the trail that winds high

into the mountains. But a few head right for the sheer cliff

face.

Conan follows the ones headed to the cliff.

And when the Cimmerian boys climb, it is a sight to behold.

They find cracks we can barely see and scale the smooth rock

face as though it were a ladder.

The hulking teen reaches for the same handhold as Conan,

trying to knock him off. Conan swings with one hand and finds

another path. In moments he is ahead.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Conan is in the lead as he crests the cliff top, the bigger

boys right behind him.

They race through the forest, heading uphill --

When Conan spots movement ahead. He pauses --

And the largest teen elbows past Conan, into the lead. The

boy runs two paces more and suddenly flies off his feet, an

AXE lodged squarely in his forehead.

All the boys stop. Out of the dense forest come

FOUR PICTISH SAVAGES

Covered with fearsome war paint and armed with dual hand

axes, the rotting heads of their enemies are slung at their

waist.

The boys spit out the rocks in their mouths and YELL. They

turn and run in the opposite direction.

Only Conan doesn't move, even as another boy pulls at him.

But Conan simply pulls the axe from his large boy's skull. He

turns to face the Picts, his eyes burning.

The Picts LAUGH and CHARGE CONAN.

Corin arrives with Uran and other armed CIMMERIAN WARRIORS.

They get a brief glimpse of a single PICT, escaping in the

other direction. One of the Cimmerians takes off in pursuit.

Corin desperately searches for his son.

Conan steps forward from out of a thicket, his body covered

in Pict blood. Three PICTS lie massacred, the bodies hacked

to pieces.

Conan walks past the other stunned Cimmerians, up to his

father. Conan SPITS OUT the bloody stone from his mouth.

Uran and the other Cimmerian men exchange worried glances.

Looking at the carved up bodies of the Picts, they are

aghast. Conan looks confused. Why aren't they happy?

Conan is tested under Corin's watchful eye:

- Forced to sleep in the snow, while his father keeps warm

inside.

- A heavy boulder on his shoulder blades while he balances on

wet river rocks.

- Climbing a cliff face, his bare hands leaving blood behind

on the jagged rocks.

INT. CIMMERIAN FORGE - DAY

Flames reflect in the blue eyes of Conan as he works the

bellows of the forge. Sparks buzz like angry fireflies as he

stokes the blaze.

Corin sharpens a sword, perfecting it. Conan cannot take his

eyes off it, stepping away from the bellows.

Conan slams the bellows closed, anger rising.

Corin stares his son in the eyes. Judging.

He tosses Conan two lumps of ore.

Conan takes the two lumps, testing them. He hands his father

back one.

EXT. FIELD - DUSK

With a setting sun silhouetting the two, Conan attacks Corin.

Conan attacks with fury. Corin defends with grace. Until the

boy overextends and Corin slashes down a counterattack that

SHATTERS CONAN'S SWORD.

Corin simply turns and walks away, leaving Conan to puzzle

what happened.

Corin lowers his sword and walks away, leaving Conan to

puzzle what happened.

INT. CORIN'S FORGE - NIGHT

Conan works the bellows, putting his back into it. Corin

places both ores in the furnace where they begin to melt.

Sparks fly as Corin pounds on the glowing edge of the sword

with hammer. Corin nods at Conan, who sprinkles the glowing

blade with ash.

Steam rises as Corin lowers the blade into a freezing slack

tub, only to place it right back into the flames.

Corin fashions the blade's hilt, engraving the guard and

pommel. It is a work of art.

Corin hands Conan the sword.

Conan furrows his brow, trying to puzzle the answer. He

can't. Corin's disappointment shows. He takes the sword from

Conan's hands.

Blood rushes to Conan's face but he says nothing. He rushes

out.

EXT. MOUNTAIN LAKE - DAY

Frustrated, Conan slashes through a field of reeds, cutting

everything within reach of him, expending his rage.

Behind him something moves in the forest. We catch just a

glimpse of the PICT, the same one that escaped Conan in the

earlier scene.

Conan's instincts cause him to spin around -- but then

there's nothing there.

INT. CIMMERIAN SCOUT POST - DAY

Built into the side of a huge tree, fifty feet up, this

wooden structure houses two CIMMERIAN SENTRIES. A BIRD CRIES

in the woods, causing one of the sentries to investigate.

THWICK! He suddenly stands up straight, unmoving. The one

still sitting in the structure notices.

The standing sentry falls backwards, revealing an ARROW

piercing his right eye. Shocked, the remaining sentry reaches

for the WARNING HORN mounted on the wall.

But as he reaches for it, his shadow becomes three

dimensional, MORPHING into

A SHADOW SCOUT

A thin, feral humanoid, bodies covered in tattoos, from the

deepest jungles of Zingara. The scout lashes out with his

black sword and cuts straight across the sentry's throat.

This Shadow Scout's name is REMO.

EXT. SCOUT POST - DAY

Remo exits and stares down at CHEREN, a BLIND ARCHER clad in

lamellar armor and a conical sedge hat. Cheren has an arrow

notched and ready, but somehow he knows not to fire.

Cheren lowers his bow and lets out a BIRD WHISTLE --

And the forest comes alive. The forces are an odd

combination; massive KUSHITE TRIBESMEN, dark-skinned savages

from the savannahs of Kush, and a LEGION OF AQUILONIAN

MERCENARIES, heavily armored knights drawn from the cities of

Aquilonia.

Their leaders, respectively, are the six foot-five Kushite

chief UKAFA, gold-toothed, his body painted for battle, and

the handsome, silver-armored Aquilonian LUCIUS.

KHALAR SINGH, a warlord atop a black horse, rides through the

fog-shrouded trees.

He bears a nomadic visage, with tanned skin and almond-shaped

eyes. While his voice is calm, his eyes burn with malice.

Khalar regards Lucius with amusement.

Lucius scowls as he delivers a bow to Khalar Singh.

EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY

Corin walks out of the forge, looking around for Conan.

Various other Cimmerians go about the daily routine, but

Conan is nowhere to be seen.

Corin looks to the ridge above the village, noticing a thick

fog creeping in. The fog curls and eddies, something is out

there.

Suddenly, Lucius and his legion of silver-armored warriors

burst out of the fog, attacking with speed and strength.

But the Cimmerians are hardly caught flat footed. In seconds

they are armed, and they counter the charge with a furious

charge of their own.

SLAM! Sword and bone collide as the two enemy fronts smash

into each other. And the battle devolves into one-on-ones --

Where the barbarians have the upper hand. Uran and Corin lead

the main push of battle-frenzied barbarians as they swing

their huge broadswords, extending their reach advantage over

the Aquilonian's shorter weapons.

And quickly, the Aquilonian's numbers are cut in half. Corin

squares off against Lucius himself. Lucius is sweating.

Worried. It wasn't supposed to be this hard.

As a unit, the Aquilonians race back into the woods. In

seconds, the Cimmerians give chase in wild pursuit.

But it's too late, nearly half the Cimmerian warriors are

gone on the chase.

EXT. CLIFF FACE - DAY

Lucius and the Aquilonians race up to a sheer cliff face.

Nowhere left to run. They turn to see the Cimmerians

gathering in front of them.

Uran notices something is wrong. His eyes go skyward. Atop

the cliff stand Cheren and a dozen more of his blind archers,

bows at the ready with FLAMING ARROWS.

They let the arrows fly, streaking balls of flame heading

right for the Cimmerians. But they do not hit them. They hit

the tree trunks beside them.

And for a moment, the Cimmerians look relieved, until they

notice small bags of a black substance tied to the arrows.

The flames lick at the substance --

KABOOM! The forest erupts into flames as the Cimmerian

warriors are burned alive.

EXT. MOUNTAIN LAKE - DAY

Conan spins, started by the sound of the explosion. He sees

flames rising above the treetops beyond.

He races back home.

EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY

Corin sees the flames in the distance as well. Suddenly,

Ukafa and his Kushite warriors erupt out of the forest. Armed

with fearsome barbed spears they charge the remaining

Cimmerians, savage against savage.

But the Kushites are not alone. From behind the Cimmerians

comes, AKHUN, a massive four hundred pounds of flesh, wearing

loops of chains like armor, leads his turbaned TURANIAN

HORSEMEN into the village.

The Cimmerian WOMEN arm themselves, but the Horsemen attack

with NINE TAILED WHIPS pulling their swords from their hands

and dragging them to the ground.

The Horsemen quickly gather up the women while Ukafa and his

men keep the Cimmerian warriors all too occupied.

Conan rushes through a river, now tinged red with blood, and

reaches the far end of the village.

Huts burn, women are chained, only a handful of Cimmerians

still stand. Lucius and his Aquilonian mercenaries are

helping the Spearmen slay the wounded.

Conan grabs a fallen sword and rushes for the nearest

Aquilonian and RUNS HIM THROUGH. A ZINGARAN spots him and

rushes him with his spear. Conan readies himself for the

When the Zingaran loses his head, lopped off by Corin's

blade.

Corin, sporting a deep gash to his abdomen, pulls a reluctant

Conan from the battle, back toward the forge.

INT. FORGE - DAY

The flames of the forge still burn as Corin pushes Conan into

the room. He bolts the door behind him.

Corin drops his sword, then struggles to lift a heavy grating

in the dirt floor. Beneath it a trough of cooling water leads

under the hut and away from the village.

Corin grabs Conan by his tunic, pulling him up to his face.

Corin's eyes are half-crazed.

BOOM. Something slams at the door. It does not budge. Again,

BOOM.

A shadow appears under the door, sliding into the forge, and

MATERIALIZING into the form of Remo. Remo quickly slides away

the bolt.

In rush enter Lucius and Ukafa. Corin and Conan face their

attackers, fighting in close quarters. Lucius rushes at

Conan, only for Conan to duck under his attack and --

THROW HIM IN THE FIERY FORGE. Lucius SCREAMS in agony, rising

up to reveal half of his formerly handsome face burned to a

crisp.

Corin fights Ukafa to a standstill, until Remo emerges from

the shadows behind him and drives a short sword into his

back.

Corin falls to his knees.

Lucius delivers a massive backhand, sending Conan flying

backwards -- and demolishing one of the Forge's main support

beams.

Half of the forge comes crashing down on top of Conan,

pinning his bleeding form to the ground, just a few feet from

his fallen father.

Enraged, Lucius turns his anger to Corin, raising his sword

to deliver the killing blow.

Lucius stays his hand as Khalar Singh steps into the forge.

Beside him stands the PICT who escaped from Conan earlier,

grinning from ear to ear.

Khalar Singh hands him a bag of gold.

The Pict nods and heads off, drawing his knife. Khalar Singh

stares down at Corin, sizing him up.

Corin lifts up into a sitting position, back to the forge.

Into the forge walks Cherin and Akhun. The lieutenants stand

behind Corin, eyeing Corin with malice.

Corin catches a glimpse of Conan, buried but staring back at

him, unable to move. Corin quickly turns away, careful not to

give his son away.

Corin LAUGHS.

Khalar looks outside the door of the forge. The Cimmerians

women are being herded by the slavers.

Khalar nods, understanding.

It's a powerful, convincing speech. But Corin holds his

tongue, unmoved.

One by one, the lieutenants beat and stab Corin, taking

pleasure in his pain.

Conan struggles, trying to move, to yell, to do anything

other than lie there. But a huge timber lies upon his back,

pinning him to the ground.

Entering the wrecked forge is FARIQ, the six year old son to

Khalar Singh. He stares at Corin's bleeding form with the

dispassion of a sociopath.

Khalar picks up THE SWORD Corin and Conan had forged

together, the one Corin took away. He admires it, then hands

it to his son. He keeps a hand on it as it is too heavy for

his son to lift alone. He instructs his son as if teaching

him multiplication.

Khalar smiles.

Fariq DRIVES THE SWORD INTO CORIN'S EYE. Corin doesn't make a

sound. Once Fariq has ripped out Corin's eyes, Khalar runs

Corin through.

Corin spits out his last words, also meant for Conan.

Conan glimpses around the faces of Khalar and his men, each

image seared into his memory as if ablaze.

EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY

The forge is lit afire from a half dozen torches, thrown onto

its roof and inside its windows. Khalar and the other watch

as the building roars into flame.

INT. FORGE - DAY

Smoke fills the air. Conan struggles, still unable to move.

He COUGHS, dying.

But then the fire collapses more of the forge, and the

falling beams shatter the one that pins Conan to the ground.

Slowly, painfully, Conan drags himself into the cooling

trough that runs beneath the hut.

EXT. CIMMERIAN VILLAGE - DAY

Conan exits the forge only to see the entire village burning.

The bodies of everyone he has ever known litter the

landscape. Nothing stirs. Until he hears a strange CHOPPING

SOUND.

Conan spots the Pict, who is decapitating a dead Cimmerian

warrior, adding to the collection of heads at his tattooed

waist.

The Pict doesn't notice as Conan slips up behind him, then

RUNS HIM THROUGH.

As the wide-eyed Pict dies, Conan takes the sword and CUTS A

NOTCH into his arm.

Where there was once a single notch, there are now FIVE such

notches, on a much broader arm that struggles to pin another

powerful looking arm.

INT. BAR - MESSANTIA - NIGHT

A raucous bar on the Argossean waterfront. Out the window we

see a port lined with Shemish galleys and junks from Kush.

The bar is filled with the hearty sailors and merchants of

those ships, and those who desire to part them from their

hard-earned money; Zamoran thieves, Hyborean mercenaries and

Brythunian whores. Most of them watch the arm wrestling match

taking place at the back of the bar.

A pair of CITY GUARDS, short swords sheathed at their sides,

enter the bar and are immediately summoned over by the

harried BARKEEP.

The barkeep motion to the arm wrestlers.

Behind the bar, six men each hold down two HULKING MEN

YELLING in agony as their horribly broken arms are snapped

back into place.

The Barkeep shakes his head, knowing the routine. He slips a

pair of silver pieces into the soldier's hand.

The two City Guards make their way to the back of the bar.

His back to them, the DRUNKEN MAN they're after struggles to

pin his opponent, cobras beneath each of their wrists, ready

to strike at the loser. A pair of voluptuous WHORES watch,

caressing the Drunken Man's sinewy back.

The Drunken Man YELLS in fury as he SLAMS the other man's

hand down upon the cobra, which immediately bites its prey.

As the soldiers arrive, the drunken victor throws his tankard

of ale at the Barkeep, who's now back behind the bar.

The Drunken Man turns as the City Guard puts a hand on his

shoulder.

The gangly fifteen year old boy has grown into a powerfully

built man, broad-shouldered with sun browned skin lined with

battle scars. Only the piercing blue eyes and square cut

black mane remain from the boy we last saw.

Conan stands to his full height, looming over the smaller

City Guards, who instinctively take a step back.

Conan sways. The room spins. He falls on his face.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Conan, unconscious, is dragged down the street by the two

City Guards.

EXT. PRISON YARD - NIGHT

The City Guards drag Conan into a broad prison yard. Many of

the INMATES are shackled together, hacking with picks at the

rock walls on their work detail. Those in no condition to

break rock are left in their own filth to rot. Some are even

dead already, the rats gnawing at the remains.

INT. PRISON GUARDHOUSE - NIGHT

The two City Guards drag Conan into the guardhouse, where a

LIEUTENANT sits eating his dinner.

The Lieutenant doesn't even bother to look up from his meal.

Conan yawns in response. One of the City Guards slaps Conan,

hard, across the face. Conan slowly opens his eyes.

SCREAMS OF PAIN come from down the hall, past a locked door.

Suddenly Conan shifts upright, looking more sober than he did

a moment ago.

The guards holding Conan up by his arms, suddenly find those

arms wrapped around their heads. Twist, twist. SNAP. SNAP. He

breaks both their necks in an instant.

The Lieutenant is horrified. He goes for his sword. Conan

bats it out of his hand, slamming his head against the back

wall.

Conan picks up the Lieutenant's sword.

A FLASH OF STEEL as Conan delivers a blow.

INT. CELLS - NIGHT

A GUARD sits on a stool next to a heavy metal door. Behind

him, the CAPTAIN OF THE GUARD beats a chained ONE-EYED

PRISONER to a pulpy mess.

There's a KNOCK at the door.

The Guard exhales, frustrated. He stands up, getting his keys

out. He stops. Opens the small EYEHOLE to see into the other

room.

The Lieutenant stares back at him.

He opens the door--

Only to see Conan standing there, holding the decapitated

head of the Lieutenant.

The shocked Guard goes for his sword. Conan swings the

Lieutenant's head, smashing it into the Guard's jaw and

putting him down for the count.

That's when the Captain of the Guard turns around. And WE

RECOGNIZE HIM! He's LUCIUS, the disfigured Aquilionian who

was one of Khalar Singh's lieutenants.

From around a corner come five more Guards, drawing their

weapons. Lucius draws his as well.

Lucius nods to the guards, who advance on Conan.

As recognition crosses Lucius' face, Conan springs into

action. He KICKS the table at the men, sending the knives and

other torture implements flying right into the first guard.

The second guard tries leaping over the falling table. Conan

just grabs him in midair and throws him even faster into the

iron bands of the prisoner cells.

Lucius lunges at Conan, Conan steps in on him, grabbing his

sword hand. In a show of strength, he twists Lucius' own

sword until points down at the floor, then THRUSTS IT THROUGH

LUCIUS' FOOT AND DEEP INTO THE WOOD FLOOR BELOW.

Lucius BELLOWS in pain, pinned to the spot.

The next three Guards rush forward, forcing Conan to deal

with three weapons attacks at once.

The first to strike swings a mace and chain that wraps around

Conan's sword and he tries to yank it free from Conan's grip.

Instead, Conan pulls him in a wide circle, sending him flying

into a wall-mounted torch. The guard burns like dry kindling.

The second to strike hits Conan on his sword hand, carving a

deep gash and causing him to drop his sword.

Conan turns to face him, eyes filled with rage. The guard's

face goes pale. Conan head butts him with all his might and

the guard goes down, bleeding from mouth, nose and ears.

However, the last Guard is upon Conan before he can react.

The powerful soldier uses the shaft of his poleax to lift

Conan off his feet and back against the far wall, pinned by

the neck.

Conan struggles to breathe, the polearm shaft driving his

throat into the wall. The thickness of the Cimmerian's neck

gives him time to reach into his bracer, pulling out a hidden

knife which he buries into the Guardsman's eye.

Lucius SCREAMS in pain as Conan pours water on the burning

guard, and lifts the table back onto its legs. Then he pulls

the sword out of the floor, a thick plume of blood rising out

of Lucius' now liberated foot.

Conan takes Lucius' face and smashes it against the table.

Lucius looks, aghast, as Conan takes his injured hand and

places it over the torch flame, searing the wound closed. The

Cimmerian never even bats an eye.

Conan turns his face to the burnt side.

Conan shows Lucius the FIVE SCARS running down his forearm.

Conan lifts the sword.

Conan thinks about it.

Conan lets Lucius go. Lucius hobbles to his chair.

Conan looks him in his eyes, sizing him up. He likes what he

sees. In a flash, Conan grabs Lucius' head again, yanking it

back, exposing his throat.

Conan rips a SMALL KEY from a large keyring. He drops it in

Lucius' throat. The big man chokes instantly. A second later,

Conan pours ale from a flagon down his throat as well.

Lucius swallows the key, gasping for breath as Conan releases

him.

Conan swings his sword and cuts the One Eyed Prisoner from

the wall.

One-Eye looks at his wrists and ankles, still hobbled by

shackles.

Conan hands him a fallen Guardsmen's sword.

The One-Eyed Prisoner grins with malice. As he closes in on

the terrified Lucius, Conan heads for the door.

We hear Lucius SCREAMS OF PAIN as Conan walks out into the

night, cutting another notch into his arm.

EXT. DESERT SANDSTORM - DAY

KHALAR SINGH looks older. Worn. He squints as he stares into

a howling sandstorm.

UKAFA trudges through the deep sand to reach him. The

sandstorm is so blinding we don't see him until he is less

than five feet away.

Suddenly, two forms race at them from the blinding sand. REMO

and FARIQ. No longer a child, Fariq is now a man in his

twenties, but he is hardly the strong warrior his father is.

His frame is slight, his eyes beady.

Khalar Singh looks to Remo for confirmation. The misshapen

and shadowy Remo nods.

EXT. CAVE TUNNEL - DAY

Remo and Fariq lead Khalar and Ukafa into a natural tunnel

carved out of rock. Inside, the sandstorm no longer rages.

And on the other side of the tunnel --

EXT. OASIS - CONTINUOUS

A protected rock oasis, heavy vegetation crawling up the

encircling cliff walls, herds of sheep grazing on fields of

grass. At its far end, beyond a deep blue pond, lies a Greek-

influenced monastery and several tiled-roof, mud-brick

houses.

And moving between the pools are MEN and WOMEN going about

their simple chores. They wear long flowing white linen robes

and turbans.

The air and sand are perfectly still within the perimeter of

the oasis. But beyond it, the sandstorm rages all around,

sand hurled violently hundreds of feet into the air, swirling

around the oasis as though it were the eye of some mystical

hurricane, protected by an unseen force.

A row of robed YOUNG WOMEN kneel in front of one of the

reflecting pools, quietly reading from prayer books and

softly striking their right breast with a left hands wrapped

in thorns.

One girl, ILIRA, mischievously taps the shoulder of the girl

next to her with her thorn. The girl, TAMARA, squeals in

pain, angry her prayer was interrupted.

Ilira is the fun-loving dilettante of the relationship.

Tamara the studious good girl.

Tamara hits Ilira back with her thorn. Ilira SQUEALS, then

hits a grinning Tamara back. Tamara grabs her, but as they

Both girls instantly stop as FASSIR appears behind them.

Fassir is an elder monk and leader of the monastery. He

shakes his head, both out of fondness and disappointment.

Ilira's face scrunches, unsure. Tamara steps in to help Ilira

save face.

A smile on Fassir's face confirms he knows the truth.

Suddenly, the monastery's BELL RINGS OUT. A moment later, a

temple EXPLODES in flames.

Pouring out from the swirling sands come Khalar Singh's army.

Cheren and his archers stand atop Khalar's

MAN OF WAR

A massive siege engine atop which CHEREN and his archers fire

FLAMING ARROWS. The arrows arc down and explode as they

impact the tiled roofs.

Sitting at the highest point of the Man Of War, Khalar Singh

likes what he sees.

The monks scatter in every direction, but wherever they turn,

more troops burst out of the swirling sand.

A small handful of armed MONKS display acrobatic martial arts

prowess as they battle with Khalar's heavily armed forces,

but they are vastly outnumbered.

Fassir grabs Tamara.

Tamara grabs Ilira and pulls her through the flaming

battleground. Zingaran warriors cut down the monks while

Turanian horsemen concentrate on the women.

WHIP! A whip encircles Ilira's waist. A massive TURANIAN

pulls her to him. Tamara grabs the whip, pulling Ilira the

other way. But she is no match for the huge slaver. He yanks

on the whip pulling both of them to him --

Only then does he notice Tamara's unsheathed knife which she

plunges into his throat.

She frees Ilira and they run.

INT. NORTH PASSAGE - CONTINUOUS

A thin alleyway at the rear of the monastery, leading away

from the din of battle, towards a rear gate of the oasis.

Tamara and Ilira run for the gate, only for the shadows of

the alleyway to move and shift -- REMO and three of his

shadow scouts.

They advance on the women, drawing dark shortswords.

Tamara lunges for the nearest shadow scout with her knife,

but when she strikes, she hits nothing but shadow. It reforms

behind her and grabs her.

Another grabs Ilira. Tamara launches her body into the air,

executing a backflip that puts her behind the shadow scout. A

quick knife strike and he goes down.

And with one continuous motion, she vaults over the shadow

scout holding Tamara, cutting his throat as well.

Remo and the remaining scout give chase, blending in and out

of shadows. But each time they strike, Tamara defends Ilira.

They near the far end of the alleyway, the North gate looming

ahead with the desert beyond.

Remo blends into another shadow --

EXT. MAN OF WAR - CONTINUOUS

Remo materializes out of a shadow atop the Man Of War, next

to Cheren, the archer.

Cheren and the other archers turn their fire to the gate at

the end of the passage. They fire a volley of fiery arrows.

INT. NORTH GATE - CONTINUOUS

Tamara and Ilira run for the whirling sands just ahead --

when the flaming arrows land before them.

Ilira hesitates.

She locks eyes with Ilira, who nods. Together they run right

for the arrows.

But at the last minute, Ilira falters. She falls to the

ground.

Tamara turns to see Ilira lying in the gateway a moment too

late.

THE ARROWS EXPLODE causing a cave in that closes the gateway.

EXT. SANDSTORM - CONTINUOUS

Tamara falls to the sand as the gate collapses behind her.

She looks back, only to see that Ilira didn't make it.

EXT. MAN OF WAR - CONTINUOUS

Khalar Singh stares at the cloud of destruction at the north

tunnel.

There, one form hurries into the swirling sandstorm.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Tamara stumbles through a stretch of barren wasteland, the

plumes of the oasis' sandstorm now off in the distance behind

her.

The sun mercilessly beats down upon her face, her lips are

already chapped. She falls to her knees, unable to go on.

She looks up, as the heat streams off the desert floor,

creating a swirling mirage. Through which the silhouette of a

rider appears, followed by others.

The horse-drawn carts of the caravan are lined with iron

bars, and behind the bars are a bevy of young women, mostly

looking worse for wear.

The HEAD SLAVER rides ahead, and walks up to the heap of

white cloth that is Tamara.

He lifts her barely conscious head, eyeing her features, a

greasy paw examining her body. He smiles.

EXT. OASIS - NIGHT

The Man of War dominates the center of the oasis, its torches

illuminating the scene before it. Akhun and the Turanians

hold chains connected to the twenty women monks, kneeling,

with their wrists chained to their neck collars.

In front of them kneels Fassir, beaten and bloodied.

Khalar Singh, Fariq, and Ukafa step down from the Man of War.

Fariq carries with him a large iron box with ornate carvings

on it.

Several of the women look up at him, shocked.

Khalar Singh becomes infuriated, eyes blazing.

Khalar draws closer to the women, looking them each in the

eye.

He motions to Fariq, who brings the iron box forward.

No one moves.

He nods to his son. He paces in front of the female monks,

the box in front of them.

He stops, one woman away from Ilira.

A tear falls down her face, but she stays silent. There's the

sound of SLITHERING as Fariq opens the box. She stares down

inside the box --

AND SCREAMS.

She awakens to the SCREAMING of a whipped SLAVE GIRL.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Tamara's eyes are met by a dozen others, SLAVES of every

color, chained together with her in a CAGED WAGON. The SLAVE

TRADER swings his whip twice more, hitting the cowering women

in the cage.

Tamara makes eye contact with the Slave Trader.

The Trader just laughs, leering at her.

He eyes her lasciviously. Tamara turns away and does not

answer.

Rides out of the sun, his massive form silhouetted by the

bright desert sky. He stares at the slave wagons.

The Slave Trader immediately WHIPS her, incensed.

The Slaver goes to whip her again, but before the blow can

fall, Conan grabs his arm. The Slave Trader looks furious,

but Conan's size holds him back.

The Slaver nods to the east and Conan releases his arm.

The Slaver continues whipping the slave. Conan just rides on -

- not his problem.

But as Conan passes Tamara, for a brief moment their eyes

meet. Something about her. Conan stares a moment, then spurs

his horse on.

Just then, the ground around them RUMBLES. Horses rear, the

women SCREAM. Conan turns and looks up. His eyes go wide.

Coming thundering down the hills on all sides. The SLAVERS

see them a moment to late.

SLAM. Several of the horses and carts are smashed by the

rolling boulders.

Conan kicks his horse, trying to outrace the boulders. But

when the wagon next to him is hit, its axle spears his horse

in its side, and Conan goes down.

Pissed, he draws his sword. The Slavers scramble around the

broken wagons, in chaos.

Only a pair of wagons still stands. One of them holds Tamara.

The Slavers are confused. Then they notice

racing down the hill, behind the boulders.

As the riders bear down upon the slavers, the Slavers do as

they're told, entangling the legs of the first wave of

horses, throwing their riders.

More than a few riders SNAP their necks as they're driven

into the desert floor. The remainder fight hand to hand, and

are cut down by either Conan's blade or the slavers' tulwars.

But their victory is short lived --

As a SECOND WAVE OF RIDERS comes thundering towards them,

before the Slavers can re-establish their perimeter. The

riders start cutting the slavers down where they stand.

Conan lodges his sword in a still-rolling boulder. As it

rolls, it pulls him up on top of it. From this height, Conan

launches himself down at the horsemen below.

WHAM! He knocks a rider off his horse, Conan landing square

in the saddle. He kicks the horse straight at the other

riders. They don't see him coming until it's too late. He

cuts them down where they sit.

The last remaining CARAVAN DRIVER whips his horse team,

trying to pull his wagon out of the fight. Conan spins to see

a FLASH of steel and the rider's neck plumes in blood as he's

decapitated.

Which is strange since the cavalry are nowhere near the

wagon.

The explanation comes as the shadow behind the driver MORPHS

into Remo, the spindly Shadow Scout. He takes the reins,

stopping the wagon.

Conan spots him, recognition in his eyes.

There's a SCREAM. Conan turns to see the other two SHADOW

SCOUTS already hacking their way through the slaves on one of

the caged wagons. A Shadow Scout gets to Tamara, only to have

her FIGHT BACK.

Tamara kicks the first Scout in the face, slamming his head

into the bars. However, the second one clubs her unconscious

from behind.

Leaps from his horse, launching his body at Remo. Remo dives

and rolls away. Small and misshapen, he is nonetheless very

fast.

Conan strikes again. Again Remo dodges out of the way.

The Shadow Scouts draw swords, but Remo waves them off,

speaking in the broken language of a savage.

Conan launches an all out attack. Remo leaps over his sword

and vaults Conan, landing on his back. He draws his sword,

preparing to cut Conan's throat --

When Conan hurls his body backwards, into one of the huge

rolling boulders. The impact crushes Remo and he loses his

grip.

Conan spins to strike again, only to see Remo MELT INTO THE

SHADOW OF THE BOULDER.

Conan turns his attention towards the other two Shadow Scouts

as they drag the unconscious Tamara away.

Conan mounts one of the cavalry horses and gallops towards

the Scouts. They see him coming and let go of Tamara. THEY

MELT AWAY INTO HER SHADOW AND DISAPPEAR.

Dazed, she struggles to her feet. Conan appears beside her,

his dagger out. Tamara gasps in fear but Conan only reaches

out and breaks the lock on her chains.

He cuts the bonds on her feet. Tamara rises up, the battle

scene revealed to her.

Dead bodies of the Slavers and Turanian horsemen lie sprawled

in every direction. Tamara takes in the gruesome sight,

shocked.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Conan rides his horse, Tamara trailing on foot, wrists

tethered to Conan's saddle by a long rope. Tamara looks

exhausted.

They reach a gallery of broken columns, spires of fossilized

coral that juts out of the desert.

Conan just keeps riding.

Conan get off his horse, unties Tamara and gives her a water

sack. Tamara greedily drinks down the water.

Conan then grabs Tamara around her waist, putting her atop

his horse. He then mounts behind her, their bodies close.

Conan's mouth is only inches from her ear as he speaks.

Tamara looks away, but doesn't respond.

EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT

A campfire amidst several large boulders, a line of windmills

on the horizon.

Tamara struggles to manage a cooking pot over a blaze. Conan

comes over and smells the pot; his face scrunches from the

odor.

Tamara steps back and gets down on her knees, her hands

clasped.

Suddenly, Conan KICKS DIRT PAST TAMARA, ONTO THE FIRE. The

fire goes out, plunging everything into darkness.

Suddenly, there's the sound of FIGHTING. Grunting, blows

being interchanged, then a LOUD SNAP AS BONES ARE BROKEN.

A moment later, the flames of the fire are stoked up again,

revealing Conan standing over the groaning REMO. The other

two SHADOW SCOUTS are dead.

Tamara instinctively jumps back.

As Tamara gapes at Remo, Conan simply pulls the cooking pot

off the fire.

Remo GROANS in pain.

AERIAL SHOT - POV - SOARING

Across steep valleys and up jagged peaks we race into steep

and unforgiving mountains. Far off, we hear a pair of

thunderous booms, almost like the sound of a heartbeat.

THUMP, THUMP.

Cresting over a set of peaks, a gorge is revealed below, and

EXT. ACHERON - NIGHT - MOVING

A city carved out of the purple granite of a mountainous

gorge. Hundred-foot towers rise up, their pinnacles crafted

to depict ANGRY, GOD-LIKE FACES.

As we pass one of the faces, again we hear the sound of a

thunderous heartbeat, now closer. THUMP, THUMP.

We GLIDE DOWN past hundred foot high pillars of flames,

towards the growing sounds of SCREAMING and WAILING.

The streets of Acheron are lined with thousands of SLAVES,

young and old, chained together, toiling under the lash of

their cruel masters, the

Towering over the slaves, the warriors are a fearsome sight.

Their armor, crafted from the bones of their defeated

enemies, rises to a mask which covers much of their features.

Only the red irises of their eyes peer through. That and

their pitch black skin.

The slaves hobble down the main boulevard, their naked feet

splashing in streams of BLOOD which flow from the

Up ahead looms a colossal pyramid, surrounded in a semi-

circle by five massive statues. As we grow closer the

grotesque surface of the pyramid becomes clearer, one hewn

from cracked bone and empty sockets.

The thunderous heartbeat seems all around us now. THUMP,

THUMP.

The three hundred foot high edifice is made ENTIRELY OF

THOUSANDS OF HUMAN SKULLS. Many of the skulls still drip with

blood, pouring down from the pyramid's crest, where stands

A BLACK THRONE

Images of snakes gorging themselves on hapless victims are

carved in bas relief into the throne's surface.

Standing before the throne, surrounded by BLACK ROBED PRIESTS

are a man and woman, mere shadows in the silhouette of

torches.

The HEAD PRIEST and his ACOLYTE approach with TWO CROWNS. One

is made of GOLD, the other of IRON.

The Gold crown goes on the head of the man. For the woman,

the Iron crown is placed on her head.

And suddenly, THUMP, THUMP. IRON SPIKES SHOOT OUT OF THE IRON

CROWN PIERCING THE WOMAN'S FOREHEAD, HER SCREAMS ECHOES

THROUGHOUT THE CITY.

Blood streams down the woman's face as she turns toward the

torchlight.

IT IS TAMARA.

EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT

Tamara leaps up, startled. Her face is covered in sweat, her

eyes as terrified as the victim from her dream.

Nearby we hear screaming of another type. Remo.

EXT. OPEN FIELD - NIGHT

MUFFLED SCREAMS. We pull out of Remo's wide mouth, stuffed

with cloth, trying to bellow in uncontrollable agony.

A hand comes in and pulls out the cloth. It's Conan.

We PULL OUT, revealing that Remo arms are spread-eagle,

attached to ropes pulled taught by opposing tree limbs.

Conan nudges him with the point of his sword. Remo SCREAMS in

agony, then speaks in his savage, broken dialect.

Remo pauses, not wanting to answer. Conan put the blade back

to Remo's neck.

Conan's mind races, remembering Khalar's words from long ago.

Conan pulls out a sheet of handwritten paper from Remo's

tunic.

EXT. GREAT WALL - NIGHT

Torchlight dots the heights of a fifty-foot high stone wall,

erected between giant rock formations, an impassable barrier

that runs countless miles.

The wreckage of old siege equipment dots the hillside before

the wall.

EXT. CATAPULT - NIGHT

An aging catapult looks down upon the wall below. Slowly, it

begins to turn.

Conan pushes the catapult until it aims towards the Great

Wall.

We hear MUFFLED SCREAMS, and find Remo tied to a boulder

cradled in the catapult. Conan pulls the gag out of Remo's

mouth.

Conan stuffs a parchment in his mouth. He takes out his sword

and cuts another NOTCH into his arm.

He then cuts the rope and WHOOSH! The catapult fires tossing

Remo and the rock he's tied to high into the night sky.

EXT. GREAT WALL - NIGHT

BOOM! Patrolling SOLDIERS are crushed beneath the massive

rock as it reduces a section of wall to rubble.

Stares down at Remo's broken body. Ukafa and Fariq stand

beside him.

Ukafa hands him the bloodied parchment. Khalar reads it.

Ukafa's anger grows.

EXT. BRIDGE TO NOWHERE - NIGHT

Conan returns from the nearby hills, carrying a pair of

rabbits he's hunted and skinned.

He looks around, surprised not to find Tamara. He hears a

yelp from nearby and walks to a dirt path beyond the

clearing.

She's tied up and gagged and she's wormed her way this far,

muddying and scraping herself all along the way. She lets out

a frustrated grunt as Conan simply picks her back up and

carries her back to the outcropping.

He pulls the gag from her mouth and drops a skinned rabbit at

her feet.

Tamara squirms away from the carcass, disgusted.

Conan tears into his rabbit, chewing on the raw meat.

Conan confronts her, enraged.

Suddenly Tamara understands.

Tamara is shocked.

Conan puts the gag back in her mouth and binds her hands.

EXT. ROCK RIDGE - NIGHT

Conan watches the Great Wall silently, absently playing with

a DAGGER in his hand as he gauges the many guardposts along

the wall. The archers. The barrels of oil. The cavalry.

He feels eyes upon him and looks down at Tamara, still bound

and gagged, her eyes burning holes in his forehead. Conan

pulls out her gag.

Tamara thinks about it.

Conan is shocked by her brazen response.

Conan responds by putting the gag back in her mouth.

But still Tamara glares at him -- and we can see the hint of

Conan's resolve bending.

EXT. GREAT WALL - DAY

Khalar Singh stands atop the wall, awaiting Conan. Fariq

draws close.

Then, off in the distance, at the far edge of the desert

clearing, two figures step out from amongst the boulders.

CONAN AND TAMARA

Conan holds a squirming, but bound Tamara.

Conan thrusts Tamara in Khalar's direction.

Khalar reaches down and lifts a heavy sack of gold coins.

GATES OF THE WALL - MOMENTS LATER

The gates open and Khalar strides out into the clearing.

CONAN AND TAMARA

stand a hundred feet ahead.

Khalar Singh throws the gold sack. It lands halfway between

them. He sends Tamara ahead, her mouth gagged.

But the moment Tamara reaches the gold --

From out underneath the sand, FOUR HORSEMEN rise up out of

the desert floor. They each bear weighted nets and spiked

lances, and they surround Conan.

The first rider gallops towards Conan who simply LOPS OFF THE

HORSES FRONT LEGS. As the beast collapses, Conan crushes the

rider's skull with his broadsword.

The next two riders attack together, but Conan dodges their

nets and rips away one of their spears, only to lodge it into

the other rider's chest. He dives at and tackles the first

rider, TOPPLING HIM, ALONG WITH HIS HORSE. He snaps the

second rider's neck.

The last rider comes at Conan, who horizontally slashes RIGHT

THROUGH THE HORSE'S NECK AND THEN THE RIDER'S NECK. Both

human and animal head tumble to the desert floor.

All four riders are dead, in a matter of seconds.

Smiles. He's got Tamara by the neck.

Conan's eyes go to the top of the wall, where CHEREN and his

archer prepare to fire. Conan rushes forward as the flaming

arrows stream toward him.

EXPLOSIONS rip through the air where Conan was, throwing up a

huge dust cloud.

Conan bursts out of the dust cloud, lunging in an attack.

But Khalar Singh is not there. He has withdrawn inside the

gates.

Baring his teeth, Conan runs at the wall itself.

Cheren and the archers let loose another volley at Conan, who

evades and strikes away the falling arrows with his sword.

Explosions fill the air, but none of them scorch Conan as he

THE GREAT WALL

Conan hits the base of the wall at full stride, like a

mountain lion. Reaching out, he launches himself up, taking

half the vertical of the wall in a single leap.

Digging his hand into the seam of the wooden beams, he stops

only to vault up again, taking the forty foot wall in two

upward bounds.

Conan leaps upon wall walk, the passageway atop the Great

Wall.

Tries to hide his surprise. Even as he draws his sword, Conan

takes out the four SOLDIERS in his way.

Conan looks at the sword. It strikes a chord in him. IT IS

THE SWORD HIS FATHER FORGED! Enraged, Conan charges the

slight Fariq.

Fariq partially parries the attack. He's obviously well-

trained, but he's no match for Conan. The tip of Conan' blade

cuts a large gash in Fariq's cheek.

Khalar Singh arrives, grabbing his son by his collar and

flinging him away from the barbarian. Fariq struggles to

stand, trying in vain to hide his embarrassment.

Conan and Khalar Singh size each other up on the narrow wall

walk.

Enraged, Conan charges Khalar Singh. He swings down on Khalar

Singh's head, only when the sword reaches it, it finds

nothing but air. Khalar is fast.

Conan responds by lunging in, swinging his broadsword in a

broad arc, with all his might. Even in the small space,

Khalar's lateral speed is dizzying. He sidesteps Conan's

attack and backhands Conan's face with the flat of his

tulwar.

Conan's resolve wavers momentarily, knowing Khalar could have

just as easily sliced his throat.

Conan comes at Khalar with twice as much fury, smashing

entire posts as he hacks at the warlord, who simply evades

the attack.

Down the wall walk they move, Conan attacking while Khalar

seems complacent enough just to defend.

Khalar ducks Conan's last wild swing and gashes Conan twice,

both deeply in his midsection. Khalar then KICKS Conan,

sending the Cimmerian slamming onto the rock parapet.

CRUNCH. Conan lands directly on his back, his sword

clattering away from him. Khalar's men back away into a

circle. Conan struggles to get on all fours.

Khalar KICKS Conan in his shattered chest, lifting Conan off

the ground with his might. He follows up with a devastating

punch to Conan's face, one which lands like a piledriver.

CRUNCH.

Conan can only bleed as Khalar looms over him.

Soldiers quickly bring over a bucket of oil and a lit torch.

Behind Khalar Singh, Conan spots Tamara being brought up, her

hands bound. Her eyes show an intense fear, but resolve as

well.

Between the bonds she slips down a blade. It's CONAN'S

DAGGER. She quickly cuts her bonds.

With all the attention focused on Conan, no one is quick

enough to stop her as GRABS THE TORCH FROM THE SOLDIER,

LIGHTING THE ARROWS IN CHEREN'S QUIVER.

Cheren spins around, sees the flames reaching his pitched

arrows.

But it's far too late. Tamara hits the floor, beside Conan.

BOOM.

The blast sends parts of Cheren flying in every direction.

Ukafa, Fariq, and the wall guards are flattened by the

concussion.

Khalar Singh, who was standing closer to the explosion, is

THROWN AGAINST THE WALL!

The warlord slowly rises, his head pounding from the

explosion. He looks up. The entire parapet is on fire.

He grits his teeth and climbs the wall.

ATOP THE WALL

A thick wall of flame rages before Khalar. Conan and Tamara

are gone. He looks over the far side of the wall, where two

figures on horseback ride off into the distance, Tamara

holding Conan atop the horse.

Ukafa and Fariq rise and see what Khalar Singh sees.

Enraged, Khalar Singh grabs him by the back of his head,

pulling him in close.

A smile creeps up on Ukafa's face, watching Fariq's

embarrassment. He withdraws hastily, all eyes on him.

Ukafa buries the smile as Khalar turns to the wall of flames

left in Conan's wake.

INT. CORIN'S FORGE - NIGHT

The flames become the blaze of the forge.

Conan, a young boy again, kneels beside the woodpile, pulling

But when he hands them to his father, he notices his father

is covered with sword wounds, cut and bleeding.

Conan turns back to the wood pile. Instead of wood, the pile

is full of the bodies of those he recently killed: Lucius,

Remo, etc.

The young Conan struggles to push the first body onto the

forge. Still the fire diminishes.

Conan turns and there is no more wood. And no more bodies.

He spins. Behind him TAMARA stands, a look of sadness on her

face.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Conan's eyes pop open. He inhales sharply, gripped by the

dream.

The room is dark, surrounded by thick draperies. Conan lies

on a straw bed with white sheets, soaked through with his

sweat. He looks to his wounds, all bandaged.

He rises--a bit too fast because he falls back to his bed.

Conan looks over to discover Tamara sitting nearby.

Conan's response is to rise again, his face contorting in

pain.

Conan pulls aside one of the thick draperies that surround

his bed. Behind it lies a staircase, which he ascends.

EXT. ZINGARAN GALLEY - NIGHT

Conan steps out onto the deck of a sixty-foot djunk,

traveling quickly down a wide and powerful river.

Conan spins to see the rough, brightly dressed Zamoran pirate

ARTUS leaping down from the quarterdeck, his sword out.

The other ZAMORAN PIRATES draw near as well. Tamara sees the

scene, suddenly uncomfortable.

In a flash Conan's sword lunges forward. CLANG. It meets

Artus's, sparking as they collide. Artus LAUGHS.

Artus slaps his hand on Conan's back and Conan winces in

pain.

Artus rubs his beard.

Conan withdraws to his room.

INT. ROOM - NIGHT

Conan collapses on the bed as Tamara follows him inside.

Conan puts a brawny arm over his tired eyes.

But Tamara doesn't leave, forcing Conan to respond.

Tamara pauses, realizing she must trust Conan to gain his

help.

Conan turns to head back to his bed. Tamara grabs him,

incensed.

EXT. MAN OF WAR - NIGHT

The enormous siege vessel lies before a burning PORT CITY.

A SAILOR, crying, grovels on his knees before Khalar and his

men.

Khalar is surprised.

Khalar nods to one of his men, who slits the Sailor's throat.

Khalar turns to his FALCONER, with the huge bird of prey on

his arm.

The Falconer nods and heads off. Khalar looks to his

soldiers.

EXT. GALLEY - NIGHT

The ship sails like a ghost over black water, the stars lit

up impossibly bright. Artus finds Tamara sitting near the

bow. He hands her a steaming bowl of food.

Artus LAUGHS.

INT. DUNGEON - THE PIT - NIGHT

AKHUN and his Turanian slavers lead the female monks into a

large circular chamber, lit by many torches. Before them lies

a PIT, dark and foreboding, with a bamboo grid placed atop

it.

Fariq enters, an AIDE holding the iron box he used earlier.

Fariq has a bandage on his face where Conan struck him, and

he looks even more angry and malevolent than before.

Fariq walks past the row of women, each recoiling. He slaps

one. Then another, his rage only building.

Fariq passes Ilira, slowing his pace. He closes in on the

YOUNGEST FEMALE MONK, a true innocent with terrified eyes.

Fariq slowly opens the box before her.

In the darkness of the box slithers a grotesque TENTACLE. The

tentacle is severed, but still alive, thirsting for blood.

Terrified as she is, the young monk says nothing. Fariq

closes the box.

Fariq nods to the slavers, who unchain her from the rest.

He pushes the girl. She falls to the grid, the sound echoing

down into the pit.

AN INHUMAN GROWL emits from the darkness. Something comes.

The girl looks below.

Suddenly, a MASSIVE TENTACLE, ten times the size of the one

in the box, comes hurtling up through the grid. It grabs the

young monk, its barbs ripping into her, dragging her into the

darkness below.

Her SCREAMS echo.

Not a single woman moves, resolved. Ilira catches herself,

but also stays silent. She looks up to see Fariq staring at

her.

CU - ILIRA'S EYES

Her pupils widen in fear as Fariq's cold stare bores into

her.

Fariq turns -- only it is another FEMALE MONK that glares at

him.

Fariq smiles.

As the Fariq reaches for her--

INT. GALLEY - ROOM - NIGHT

Tamara awakens with a SCREAM, her body resting against the

curved hull of the ship.

Tamara looks around with a panicked look, until she realizes

where she is.

Their roles reversed, now it is Tamara's turn to see Conan

sitting nearby, drinking from a flask of mead.

Tamara actually manages to LAUGH.

Tamara shrugs, embarrassed. Conan hands her flask. She takes

a deep swallow, some spilling out over her cheeks. But she

doesn't cough, and smiles brightly afterwards.

Conan reaches for the flask, but Tamara ignores him, taking

another swig. It quickly loosens her tongue.

Conan just shrugs, taking back the mead.

Tamara, her tongue loosened by drink, laughs.

EXT. ZINGARAN GALLEY - MORNING

Tamara steps out onto the deck, grabbing her pounding head.

Her first hangover. She hears a THUMPING sound, followed by

ANOTHER, and walks towards the side of the deck.

Tamara looks overboard, to the water below.

THE RIVER IS FILLED WITH BODIES! Bloated, they float in blood

red water as flies buzz around them. One of them hits the

hull of the boat. THUMP.

Tamara blinks, unsure if the vision is real -- but then she's

joined by other PIRATES who gape at the bodies below.

Tamara turns and up ahead spies --

The larger warship cuts through the water, manned by a legion

of rowers. On the deck of the warship, UKAFA and his SPEARMEN

stand. The SAILORS get the most out of the billowing black

sails. The ship gains fast.

Conan exits his room, sees the danger. Artus appears at his

side.

The pirates leap into action, tacking and turning the galley

with great speed and efficiency.

Ukafa smiles, his gold teeth shining. The ship's CAPTAIN

stands beside him.

Is turned around now, fleeing. ARCHERS from the Warship fire

arrows that barely reach the Galley. The Pirates dodge the

few that land on deck.

Tamara reaches Conan and Artus. She's worried to say the

least.

Artus smiles. He was hoping Conan would say that.

The Pirates rush to the back of the ship.

THE BLACK WARSHIP

The Captain stares ahead, confused.

Sure enough, the stern of the ship begins to part, revealing -

A MASSIVE CROSSBOW

Mounted with a barbed harpoon, fifteen feet long.

They fire the weapon. The harpoon races for the bow of the

Warship, a thick rope trailing it. It smashes into the wood,

ripping through it like it was paper.

The Pirates grab the heavy rope and run, pulling the rope,

and the harpoon back towards the Wasp.

As it's pulled out, the barbs of the harpoon rip a wider hole

in the warship.

The Captain and crew are in a panic. Men rush to patch the

gaping hole in the hull.

Ukafa guts the captain with his spear.

The pirates load the harpoon in the crossbow device a second

time.

It fires, smashing again into the wooden hull of the Warship.

WARSHIP - INSIDE

The harpoon lodges deep inside the hull -- where Ukafa and

his spearmen wait.

They rush forward and grab onto the harpoon.

Again, the pirates pull the harpoon back out. It falls into

the water as they pull on the rope tied to it.

They do not notice Ukafa and his dozen spearmen clasping the

very same rope as its pulled toward the Galley.

Artus looks at the Warship. It's foundering and sinking

quickly.

A CHEER goes up among the pirates --

And then one PIRATE takes a spear through the chest. All eyes

turn to the side of the Wasp, where Ukafa and his men climb

aboard.

Conan's eyes alight with fury.

Conan motions to a pair of pirates.

The Spearmen rush to the attack. The pirates spring to the

defense of the ship, countering the Spearmen with cutlass and

dagger. Ukafa marshals his men as a fierce battle rages.

The Spearmen quickly make their way to the interior of the

galley, throwing the dead bodies of the pirates overboard.

Conan grabs the nearby jib, swings over, and plants both feet

in the face of one of the spearmen, knocking him over the

side.

The sea captain proves dangerous in his own right, grabbing

the head of one of the Spearmen and violently pulling it down

to the gunwale of the ship, impaling the Spearman's eye on a

handspike.

The massive warrior shows incredible speed as well, dodging

one cutlass attack only to turn the weapon upon another

pirate.

The Cimmerian cuts through a Spearman, his gaze focused on

Ukafa. Ukafa stares right back as he runs through a pair of

pirates. Finally, the two warriors stand only feet apart.

The two warriors eye each other with satisfaction. Ukafa's

frightening, sharpened gold teeth shine as he smiles.

Conan responds by lunging forward, swinging his sword in a

broad arc. Ukafa is just as quick, stepping back and allowing

his spear to block the swing.

Ukafa whirls the war spear in great circles, forcing Conan to

parry, stepping back beyond the spear's reach.

The two powerful warriors trade blows back and forth, neither

able to gain the advantage.

Ukafa tries to spear Conan through the chest, and Conan

decides to drop his sword, grabbing the spear as it passes by

him.

Conan then pulls on the spear, throwing Ukafa off his

balance, towards Conan. Conan then kicks the warrior in the

chest, hurtling Ukafa backwards.

Now Conan turns the spear on its master. Ukafa, unarmed, is

forced to backpedal as Conan thrusts the spear at him. A pair

of close misses leaves Ukafa with gashes on his chest and

arm, but he manages to knock the spear from Conan's hands.

The battle goes to hand-to-hand. It's primal, each of them

covered in blood. Ukafa bear hugs Conan, then resorts to

using his teeth to bite into Conan's shoulder.

Conan YELLS IN PAIN, butting Ukafa's head and knocking him

back. Conan falls to the stern of the ship, his back against

the harpoon crossbow.

Ukafa shakes off the head butt, and sees his spear nearby. He

picks it up.

He raises up to hurl the spear through Conan, only to see

Conan manning the harpoon, NOW TURNED TO FACE UKAFA.

The crossbow fires and the harpoon punches a massive hole

through Ukafa, its momentum throwing him off the galley, into

the sea beyond.

She hides inside a small compartment of the ship. She hears

FOOTSTEPS walking past, then returning. An ARM suddenly

reaches in and grabs her.

As she's pulled out, Tamara SCREAMS right in Conan's face. He

doesn't even flinch.

EXT. GALLEY - NIGHT

The battle ended, the pirates toss the dead Spearmen into the

sea and prepare to make sail again.

Meanwhile, Conan lashes his sword to his back, standing by

the gunwales with Tamara and Artus, a SMALL DINGHY waiting

below.

EXT. DINGHY - DAY

Conan rows away from the galley with powerful strokes.

Conan just shakes his head as a parting fog reveals a large

Colossus head, the fallen remains of an enormous statue,

lying agape on the shoreline.

INT. COLOSSUS HEAD - DUSK

Conan pulls off his jerkin, revealing a torso rippling with

muscles.

Conan ignores her, gathering wood for a fire.

Conan continues collecting, infuriating Tamara.

Conan draws flint, starting the fire. Only once his task is

complete does he answer Tamara.

Tamara offers a thankful nod, her anger subsiding.

EXT. KHALAR SINGH'S WARSHIP - DUSK

Khalar looks at the destruction of Ukafa's warship, the

bodies filling the water. Khalar spots Ukafa's dead body

floating there, harpoon still lodged in his chest.

The ship's CAPTAIN approaches.

Just then, a FALCON approaches. The Falconer retrieves it, a

parchment tied to its talon. He passes it on to Khalar Singh.

Khalar Singh reads it, a smile creeping upon his face.

EXT. FOREST - LATE DAY

Tamara watches Conan from a distance. He silently stalks prey

with nothing more than a knife.

Its ears listen intently, aware. Suddenly, it bolts.

Is just as quick, racing through the forest on a intercepting

course with the great beast. He leaps over a fallen log,

throwing his dagger with a sweep of his arm.

The boar goes down, the blade through its jugular. Conan

walks up to the struggling beast, showing no satisfaction as

he mercifully SNAPS its neck.

INT. COLOSSUS HEAD - NIGHT

The great haunches of the beast roast over the fire. Conan

turns the meat.

Behind him, Tamara approaches. She has cleaned herself up,

her white robe translucent in light of the fire, her wet hair

glistening.

Conan can't help but notice her supple skin, her curves. He

stops chewing.

Tamara notices. Embarrassed, she turns so that he can only

see her side. Conan returns to his food.

Tamara falters, unsure. But Conan's quiet eases her.

Tamara nods, having heard as much about Conan. She turns back

to face him, no longer hiding her body.

Tamara steps closer to Conan.

Conan rises to her, his broad form looming over her slight

build.

But Conan shows surprising gentleness as he removes her robe

and pulls her naked body into his, their mouths meeting in a

desperate kiss.

Conan lies atop Tamara by the fire, their sinewy limbs

intertwined, fingers locked together. He thrusts into her,

causing her face to contort in pleasure and pain.

The fire grows brighter as Tamara rolls on top, undulating as

their pace quickens. Tamara CRIES OUT in ecstasy.

Tamara stares into the fire, her body wrapped around Conan's.

She gently caresses the notched scars cut into his arm.

Conan, his eyes closed, keeps them shut.

Tamara reaches down between Conan's legs. His eyes open.

Conan growls and pulls himself atop Tamara. Looking down at

her face, her hair loose and wild, she's beautiful in the

soft glow of the firelight.

Conan lowers himself back down upon her.

EXT. MOUNTAIN RIDGE - DAY

Conan powers his way to the top of a high ridge, spotting

down in the vista below:

Surrounded on three sides by the coastline, the stone

fortress of Khalar Singh rests on a plateau, overlooking a

bustling, tented city below.

Conan spots a long CARAVAN of packed camels working their way

towards town, driven by DESERT TRADERS from Shem.

Tamara looks down at her loose-fitting robes.

EXT. KHOR KHALBA - ENTRANCE - DAY

The caravan rides up to the walled entrance to the city,

guarded by Khalar's troops. Blended in amongst the others,

Conan now wears the elaborate head scarf and clothes of

Shemish traders, obscuring all but his eyes.

Tamara is dressed like a Shemish serving girl, her taut body

barely covered by silken drapings. She glares at Conan,

miserable.

Conan tugs on the rope for the camel to move faster. The

Camel BRAYS and rears. Conan yanks harder and the camel flies

forward, its eyes wide.

Conan meets its eye.

They ride into the city, past the troops.

EXT. KHOR KHALBA CITY - ENTRANCE - DAY

Conan and Tamara walk through the town's teeming market, a

otherworldly bazaar replete with animal sacrifices, veiled

faces and not a hint of morality.

A FIGURE, his form hidden beneath a cloak, spots Conan and

Tamara as they enter, and begins to follow them.

The city ends at the sheer cliff wall at the bottom of the

plateau. There stands a WOODEN PLATFORM that is lowered by a

massive winch, unloading a cavalry regiment and then raising

back up to the fortress above.

Conan motions up to the winch. Standing beside it are a half

dozen of the four-armed ARCHERS.

As Conan continues around the base of the mesa, the Figure

following Conan is joined by TWO OTHERS.

Conan and Tamara reach a less crowded area of the village

when a VOICE rings out behind them.

Conan spins, sword at the ready. From out of the shadows

comes a pair of MEN, their beady eyes fixed on Tamara.

From out of the shadows steps the ONE-EYED THIEF, the same

one who Conan saved from Lucius' beatings. He smiles at

Conan, lifting a KEY from a rope around his neck

INT. THIEVES' TAVERN - AFTERNOON

A rundown hall, built beneath the city. Wooden supports hold

up the buildings of the entire city block overhead.

And within the hall, a gathering of THIEVES and ROGUES.

They're a flinty collection, many of them missing fingers or

even hands, evidence of Khalar's cruel justice.

They eat and drink, sharing tales and tips, WENCHES and

SERVING WOMEN their cautious eyes following the Cimmerian

outsider.

The One Eyed Thief takes them to an open table, and

immediately three of the serving women descend upon Conan,

caressing him.

Tamara watches this, jaw dropped, and manages a COUGH, even

as a SERVING GIRL delivers mead to the table.

Conan just smiles as he enjoys the silky bodies of the nubile

women, their breasts practically framing his face.

Conan cleans mead from his face, scowling at Tamara, as the

One-Eyed Thief uses the tabletop to explain the fortress.

The One Eyed Thief offers the same gap-toothed grin.

INT. SEWERS - NIGHT

Tamara is the last to follow Conan, the One Eyed Thief and

the three THIEVES from before down a short ladder. Below lies

a darkened catacomb, lit only by their torches.

Tamara's foot drops into knee high water. She immediately

grabs her nose.

Tamara eyes the muddy water, nothing visible beneath its

murky surface.

INT. OTHER SEWERS - NIGHT

The group wades through the water, single file. Conan notices

HIEROGLYPHICS and carvings on the wall of the catacomb.

Massive creatures of the sea, dark sorcery, ritual sacrifice.

Conan presses on, into the darkness.

INT. CISTERN - NIGHT

The catacomb widens out to a giant circular cistern, its

walls rising up high into the darkness. As the torches bring

light to the space, we see HUNDREDS OF DEAD, ROTTING BODIES.

As Conan and Tamara walk forward, the One Eyed Thief and the

other stop at the entrance.

Conan simply nods and the thieves depart. Conan raises his

torch, illuminating the near wall.

Conan heads off one direction, leaving Tamara to navigate the

other half. Her torch illuminates the grizzly path ahead. She

inhales deeply and takes her first step.

Following the slick wall, he passes many DEAD BODIES, but

only one catches his eye. He stops before it.

Nothing more than a skeleton, picked clean by the rats. But

he still bears his leather armor, and a horned helmet that

resembles his father's own.

Conan takes the helmet and places it on his head. It fits

perfectly.

Tamara is gingerly making her way through the knee high

sewage water and the dead bodies submerged within.

Tamara leaps up, swinging the torch down towards the water.

Conan, nearby, unsheathes his sword.

Conan walks over, the torchlight revealing something on

Tamara's leg. It's a SLUG, which he flicks off.

But when Conan steps forward, something ROILS THE WATER right

before him. He spots a HUGE TENTACLE just before its

submerges back into the water.

Then Tamara SCREAMS as another tentacle rises up from the

water, wrapping around her waist. Tamara grabs hold of the

wall as the tentacle tries to pull her underwater.

Conan immediately SLASHES the tentacle, pulling Tamara away.

The squirming decapitated tentacle squirts black blood

everywhere, the knee high water seems to come alive with

roiling intensity.

Conan spins, finding a circular stone staircase tiled into

the far cistern wall.

EXT. CIRCULAR STAIRWAY - CISTERN

As they work their way up the circular stairwell, towards a

thin shaft of firelight up ahead.

INT. DUNGEON - NIGHT

Carved out of solid black rock, both sides of the broad

corridor are occasionally punctuated by thick steel doors,

leading to prison cells.

Conan and Tamara emerge from a sewer drain, pushing their way

to the floor of the hallway. The heavy darkness presses in on

Conan's torch like a sentient, animate thing.

The floor of the corridor is lined with DEAD BODIES, in

varying states of decay. There are buckets, filled with

entrails and feces, upended. Tamara put her hand over her

mouth.

Conan continues down the hallway. He and Tamara begin to hear

the sound of EERIE CHANTING.

Up ahead, the torch-lined dungeon plunges into darkness as

the torches end. Conan holds up his own torch, struggling to

peer into the black void.

Conan takes a step forward when suddenly a POWERFUL WIND

blows out his torch. A moment later, there's the sound of A

GATE WHISTLING DOWN AND CRASHING INTO THE GROUND.

In the darkness, comes a DEEP, EARTHY CHUCKLE.

A HOST OF OIL LIGHTS SUDDENLY COME UP, revealing that the

gate that closed behind them was actually just a door to a

vast CAGE built around a massive PIT.

INT. THE PIT - NIGHT

The same pit where Fariq sacrificed the female monk, only

now, a half dozen COMBATANTS stand on the grid above the

void.

Hanging high above the pit, in baskets, lie other PRISONERS,

including Tamara's fellow female monks. Several of them YELL

out Tamara's name as they see her.

And watching everything, from an amphitheater above the cage,

is the massive Akhun and several of his slavers.

The Combatants all close in on Conan and Tamara, each taking

a different plank way to get to them.

Tamara steps behind Conan, who blocks the others' path to

her.

The first two COMBATANTS attack as one, the first wielding a

short sword, the other a pike. The pikeman thrusts first,

Conan deftly stepping aside, then pulling the pike, sending

the wielder off balance and into the abyss.

The prisoner with the short sword doesn't fare much better,

as Conan evades his swipe and decapitates him with a single

blow.

Tamara sees that the prisoner baskets are suspended by the

top half of the metallic cage. She begins scaling the cage,

her eyes set upon the imprisoned monks.

Three more COMBATANTS step in to replace the fallen duo.

Conan readies himself as the first one steps up, only to have

the combatant suddenly grabbed by a ENORMOUS TENTACLE, much

like the one Conan cut through earlier.

Up from the darkness of the pit comes a gargantuan monster; a

gigantic octopus-like behemoth, with multiple tentacles that

feed a pulsing black orifice lined with razor sharp teeth.

The creature reaches out and grabs another SCREAMING

combatants, lowering him to its mouth and devouring him in

its gnashing maw.

The creature reaches for Conan, who ducks underneath the

tentacle, the slices it off. He immediately turns back to

check on Tamara -- and he discovers she's not there.

He looks up to see Tamara scaling the cage, now nearly fifty

feet directly above him.

The massive warrior spots Tamara getting close to the

prisoner baskets and motions to his two Jailers.

She's reached the base of the chain supporting one of the

baskets when she spots the two Jailers closing in, climbing

towards her from either side.

Spotting Tamara overhead, Conan tries to keep beneath her,

evading the swarming tentacles while balancing on the rickety

planks.

She's scaling down the basket supporting chain when the first

Jailer reaches out to grab her. She reacts by GASHING his

eyes, and as he instinctively grabs them, he FALLS TOWARDS

THE PIT.

Conan barely dives out of the way as the fallen Jailer

SMASHES through the plank he was on, forcing Conan to jump to

another.

Just then another COMBATANT comes swinging for the Cimmerian,

forcing him to defend while still not balanced.

The next Jailer grabs her, pulling her off the cage. He

struggles to pull towards a nearby exit hatch when she BITES

HIS EAR OFF.

The Jailer drops Tamara, who SCREAMS as she falls.

Conan spots Tamara plunging towards him. In one swift move,

he SLASHES his opponent, ducks underneath a writhing

tentacle, and reaches out to GRAB TAMARA BY THE ARM AS SHE

FALLS. His shoulder nearly pops out, but he manages to hold

onto Tamara.

She swings above the chasm, the gnashing teeth of the monster

below her. Only a single splintering plank holds her and

Conan aloft.

With a grunt, he swings Tamara and throws her to safety, at

the edge of the pit.

But as he gets to his feet, he spots the massive Akhun

entering the arena.

The giant warrior grins as he boards the same plank as Conan.

He thrusts his thunderous legs down, causing the plank to

bend and warp.

Conan struggle to balance on the undulating plank, but his

training in Cimmeria serves him well.

Akhun smiles and step closer, again thrusting down with his

legs. Conan's balance is thrown, but there's no other plank

close enough for him to jump to.

Akhun steps down on the plank one last time, but this time

Conan uses the momentum to SPRINGBOARD UP INTO AIR.

Conan soars into the air, his cat-like reflexes keeping him

focused as he lands right before the stunned Akhun. With one

great slash of his blade, Conan eviscerates Akhun.

Akhun's innards drop out of his belly as he falls into the

abyss, only to be snapped up by the massive beast.

INT. ARENA OF THE PIT - LATER

Conan lowers down the last of the baskets. Tamara use a sword

to smash open the lock, freeing the prisoners inside.

Tamara shares hugs of joy with the other monks of her flock.

The women look worn, but unbroken.

One of the stronger looking women, an ELDER MONK, steps

forward.

Tamara nods and the women begin to ARM THEMSELVES. Conan

shakes his head at the rag-tag group.

The Elder Monk grabs and nearby pike and twirls it expertly

about her body, clearly well versed in it use.

Tamara looks at the other monks.

The other monks nod and they start to head off. Tamara is the

last to head off, her eyes burning into Conan's.

Tamara kisses Conan's cheek one last time and heads off.

INT. CATACOMBS - NIGHT

The monk travel in single file, the Elder Monk leading the

way. Suddenly, she stops, motioning to an entranceway ahead.

The Elder Monk nods and slips up ahead. We hear a SMASH.

INT. CATACOMB ENTRANCEWAY - NIGHT

The stunned GUARD lies before the assembled monks. Tamara

glares down at him.

The Guard just LAUGHS at them through bloody teeth.

The Guard's face drops as Conan steps out from the darkness.

Tamara smiles. She knows it is a half truth.

INT. FORTRESS - THRONE ROOM - NIGHT

As Conan and the monks enter, the throne room is empty,

scattered light barely illuminating the expansive chamber.

Ilira sits on the throne, crown on her slumped head. Tamara

runs over to her.

She raises Ilira's head, only to discover lifeless eyes.

Tamara cradles her best friend's face.

Before the monks can react, ARROWS STREAK OUT FROM THE

DARKNESS, killing them all. Only Conan is quick enough to

dodge his arrow by diving aside.

When he comes up, Khalar has Tamara, his sword at her neck.

Several ARCHERS stand behind him, at the ready.

Khalar smiles down at Tamara.

Slowly, what he's saying dawns on her.

Suddenly, a trap door opens beneath Conan and drops down in

the darkness, landing with a heavy THUD.

INT. FORGE - NIGHT

Conan awakens to the familiar sound of a hot blade SIZZLING

as it hits the cooling vat.

But this is no dream of his father's forge -- as he looks up

to see Fariq holding a sword, its tip still red hot, the

flames of the fortress's forge behind him.

Conan's thrusts forward, only to find his armed chained

around a heavy mortar and stone pillar.

Fariq strokes his newly acquired scar.

Conan says nothing, but his eyes scan the room, taking in

everything.

Conan strains at the chain, ripping the skin beneath his

shackles -- but a thin wisp of mortar comes loose from the

pillar.

He waves the glowing sword tip in front of Conan's face.

Fariq LAUGHS, amused.

Fariq pushes the hot tip of the sword against Conan's skin.

Conan's face reddens with pain, but he doesn't utter a sound.

But as Conan pulls on his chains -- more mortar falls. As

Fariq turns back to place the sword in the forge, Conan

notices one of the bricks the chains are fastened to is

LOOSE.

Fariq turns, his eyes blazing. He glances over at the two

GUARDS by the door, who try not to listen.

Fariq responds by pushing the red hot blade against Conan's

chest. Conan just YELLS back at him.

Again, Fariq pushes the hot blade against Conan's skin.

Fariq yells and thrust the tip of the sword at Conan's head.

Conan lifts his manacles, forcing the blade up into the brick

holding his chain.

Then Conan pulls on the chains with all his might, loosening

the heavy brick, which falls to the ground.

In one powerful movement, Conan begins SWINGING the chain

with the mortar block on the end, a homemade ball and chain.

The two Guards come forward, sword drawn, only to meet with a

CRUNCHING blow by Conan's weapon. Both their heads get caved

in.

Fariq rushes Conan, getting in too close for Conan's wide

swings. Conan simply meets Fariq's sword with the heavy

chains, then encircles Fariq's neck with the steel bonds.

Fariq CHOKES, falling to the ground, gasping for air. But

Conan doesn't kill him -- yet.

A vat of molten steel bubbles in a cauldron within the forge.

Conan uses tongs to lift the cauldron out.

Conan kicks him onto his back. Fariq's last vision is that of

Conan, tipping the cauldron, the hot iron descending toward

his eyes. Fariq SCREAMS.

Conan reaches down and picks up Fariq's sword. THE SWORD

CONAN'S FATHER MADE FOR HIM.

EXT. SEA PENINSULA - NIGHT

By torchlight, Khalar Singh leads his black-armored PERSONAL

GUARD, two dozen men strong, across a rocky peninsula,

jutting out into the sea. On the back of Khalar's horse,

bound, rides the helpless Tamara.

As they round a large rock spire they spy a fearsome and awe

inspiring sight. A massive SKULL, seemingly a natural rock

formation, rises over the peninsula.

As they ride closer, we can make out one more detail -- the

mouth of the skull is actually a massive door, at least sixty

feet high, and seemingly made up of jagged bone. It has the

appearance of teeth, completing the skull illusion.

INT. ACHERON CAVE - NIGHT

It takes the full complement of soldiers to open the enormous

doors. Khalar Singh rides in. Moonlight from the huge eyes of

the skull illuminate terrifying faces in the darkness. Faces

of demonic warrior statues.

At their feet lie the decaying bones of human skeletons, too

numerous to count.

Khalar nods to his men. Two Guardsmen take their torches and

light other torches set in the walls. It sets off a chain

reaction. As far as the eye can see torches ignite revealing

the true scope of this place.

An enormous cave, the walls lined with monumental columns

that frame countless bas relief carvings of demonic origin.

And at the far of the cave, an ALTAR sits beneath a raised

THRONE, surrounded by a SACRIFICIAL POOL. The pool is empty.

Khalar turns to his guards.

Khalar dismounts at the sacrificial altar, carved of out of

purple-shaded rock. Around its edges are deep channels, for

the blood of its victims. And on its four corners -- shackles

of bone.

With the flick of a wrist, Khalar cuts Tamara's bonds.

Tamara head butts him, struggling to escape, but Khalar

absorbs the blow effortlessly. He throws Tamara upon the

altar, his two guards shackling her in place.

Khalar snaps his fingers and two guardsmen bring an ornately

carved BOX MADE OF BONE, laying it before the altar. Like a

Chinese puzzle box, Khalar manipulates the carvings of

skulls, sacrifices, and creatures until the box UNLATCHES.

And from the box he lifts two items. A CROWN OF GOLD and A

CROWN OF IRON. The crown of gold is magnificent, ornately

detailed gold that glows in the firelight.

But the crown of iron is terrifying. Huge rough spikes extend

from it in every direction. It looks more like a weapon than

a crown.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Bloodied and weary, Conan approaches the Skull Rock. He has

nothing more than his sword, his loincloth and a small BURLAP

SACK tied to his hip.

He stumbles, falling to his knees. His wounds have taken a

grave toll. Still he stands and presses on.

He pushes on the doors. They do not budge in the least. He

puts his shoulder to the doors -- his every muscle straining

to their utmost. Again -- no movement.

Conan backs away, taking stock of the surroundings. He climbs

up the side of the rock.

INT. ACHERON CAVE - NIGHT

Khalar Singh CHANTS in Acheronian. Ancient, harsh words, as

he lifts the two crowns overhead, offering them to the

statues of dark gods all around.

Khalar Singh continues his chant and places the gold crown

upon his head. As he does so, the light from the moon

reflects off the crown, bathing the sacrificial pool in an

unnatural glow.

THUMP-THUMP. A deep and foreboding sound echoes throughout

the cave, shaking everything like an earthquake. It sounds

like the heartbeat of a giant.

Khalar next places the iron crown around Tamara's head. She

thrashes and struggles but to no avail.

Once the crown is around her head -- THUMP-THUMP! The spikes

around the iron crown grow shorter AS THE SPIKES DRIVE

THEMSELVES INTO HER HEAD. She SCREAMS in agony.

Blood drips from beneath the crown, flowing into channels

around the edges of the altar.

EXT. THE SIDE OF THE SKULL - NIGHT

Conan climbs -- muscles straining -- slipping -- hanging on

by one hand -- and climbing again.

THUMP-THUMP. The statuary shakes, indeed the whole earth

does. Conan nearly slips, but keeps his grip.

He reaches the eye of the skull.

With the moon over his shoulder, Conan stares down at the

unholy sight before him. We pull back revealing Tamara, her

blood draining from her body.

INT. ACHERON CAVE - CONTINUOUS

Tamara, her face pale from blood loss, begins to pray in

pained whispers.

Tamara struggles to speak, her body wracked with pain.

Khalar turns to see the outline of Conan, framed by the

moonlight, looking down at Khalar from atop of one the

warrior statues. A thick vine dangles nearby, Conan's route

down from the cave roof above.

Conan then leaps down to the skeleton covered floor before

the altar. It is a killing floor.

The two Guardsmen leap for him, but Conan dispatches them

with a pair of strikes. Both fall down dead.

Conan meets Tamara's eyes, a look of determination,

assurance. He starts toward the altar.

Conan lunges for Khalar, their swords meeting with a flash of

sparks. They fight to a brief standstill when ---THUMP,

THUMP.

Tamara writhes in pain as the spikes drive deeper into her

head. More blood pours forth. The blood in the channels

speeds up and finds the channel leading down to the

sacrificial pool.

Conan makes another movement toward the altar, but Khalar

nimbly blocks his path.

Conan takes the burlap sack wrapped at his hip pulls it off.

Conan tosses out what is inside. It falls to the ground,

rolling to Khalar Singh's feet.

Khalar looks down at the ground -- at the head of his beloved

son, his eyes gone, replaced by molten metal. Khalar trembles

in shock and rage.

Khalar reaches for the severed head, giving Conan a brief

window to rush to Tamara's side. Conan tries to lift her off

the altar, but the bone shackles still pin her down.

Enraged, Khalar CHARGES Conan throwing all his skill and

force into an all-out attack. Conan simply sidesteps it, then

shatters the bone shackle holding one of Tamara's wrists.

Before he can shatter the other, Khalar charges again.

Khalar swings, Conan spins, his blade catching Khalar's just

inches from his face. Conan throws Khalar off him, knocking

the warlord back ten feet. Khalar's attack is feral,

uncontrolled. He's lost his balance.

Spinning and striking blindly, Conan smashes the second

shackle on her wrist. He continues his motion, bringing his

sword around to meet Khalar's next strike.

Now Khalar looks like the enraged amateur, and Conan the more

polished warrior. Their battle takes them away from the

altar.

With her hands free, Tamara struggles to pull the spikes out

and remove the crown.

THE KILLING FLOOR

Conan repels another Khalar attack, this time striking

Khalar's chest and drawing blood. The Guardsmen arrive from

the other side of the cave, drawing their swords.

Khalar waves them off, his fury aimed at the Cimmerian.

In agony, Tamara pulls one of the spikes out, then another.

She pushes with all her might, lifting the crown of iron off

her bloodied head --

When the Guardsmen charge her, pin her down, and force the

crown back on.

THUMP, THUMP! The crown spikes imbed themselves even deeper

as Tamara SCREAMS. The blood now fills the channels of the

altar.

WE FOLLOW the trail of blood, down the side of the altar, in

a spiral channel around the leg, and in a wide circle around

the altar until reaching the channel's end --

THE FIRST DROP OF TAMARA'S BLOOD TOUCHES THE SACRIFICIAL

POOL. It BOILS instantly, multiplying itself exponentially,

bubbling forth and filling the entire pool.

AND ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE. A massive earthquake jolts the

entire cave.

THE KILLING FLOOR

As Khalar Singh and Conan battle, the ground beneath them on

the wide cave floor CRACKS and SPLINTERS.

THUMP-THUMP! The earthquake intensifies and the entire floor

of the cave GIVES WAY, tumbling into an incredible abyss.

Conan and Khalar alike grab onto the only rocks they can

reach to prevent them from falling further.

Conan ends up against one of the walls on the side of the

cave. Khalar clings to the rocks on the edge of the sacred

pool.

Their bodies are illuminated by a fiery glow. They look

below, searching for the source of the glow.

Another two hundred feet deep lies the golden spired city of

ancient Acheron. The cave is but a forechamber, the slightest

taste of the true glory and horror of Acheron.

And as they stare down into the ancient city, the shadows

there MOVE.

Is it a trick of the light? No. Whatever the dark forms are,

they are coming this way, climbing the tallest demonic spires

and leaping impossibly far to climb up after Conan and Khalar

Singh.

Khalar gazes down at the city with wide eyes.

Tamara, her body's blood nearly drained, is still shackled to

the altar, which now teeters over the edge of chasm, poised

to fall into the fiery depths.

On the other side of the abyss, Conan spots her and scales

the cave wall, up to a tiered plateau. He moves quickly,

trying to get to Tamara.

Khalar watches, entranced, as the first of the creatures

rises out of the pit. They climb the walls like insects,

clinging to the walls, their heads swiveling like a praying

mantis.

The look like the statues above -- a hybrid -- part human,

part demon. Their skin is a perfect black, armor carved of

black bone, faces once human but now demonic with blood red

eyes and gnashing teeth.

They advance on Khalar Singh, who is furthest down now that

Conan climbs upward towards Tamara.

And this demonic horde advances right for him, their razor

sharp teeth bared. Unsure, Khalar grips his tulwars tight.

The demonic creatures draw close, and they -- kneel. They

climb out of the abyss and immediately lower their heads

before Khalar Singh.

Out of the corner of his eye, Khalar spots Conan, drawing

near.

But they do not rush to follow the order. They stir. One of

them with more ornate bone armor than the rest looks over at

Khalar's Guardsmen.

Its voice is somewhere between a whisper and a hiss.

Conan is on an intercept course with Tamara, leaping across

chasms from statue to statue. Just below him, the first wave

of Acheronian Warriors reach the Khalar's remaining

Guardsmen.

Khalar's Guardsmen, who have been watching the events with

mouths agape, realize the danger too late. The horde of

Acheronian Warriors leaps on them and a massive battle ensues

between the demonic warriors and the soldiers.

His climbing is dizzying, reminiscent of his youth scaling

the cliffs of Cimmeria.

Intercepts Conan just below the altar, his tulwars at the

ready.

The two warriors square off, fighting even as they cling to

the statues.

The demon warriors not only slay Khalar's Guardsmen, but rip

their still living bodies apart, dousing themselves in the

blood of their victims. It is a violent ritual, both

Bacchantic and gruesome.

Launches himself at Conan, his tulwars sparking off the stone

statuary. Conan leaps to another statue, parrying the blows.

Khalar overextends himself, and Conan's sword just barely

misses his throat.

Khalar pulls back, tries to settle himself. Conan's eyes

narrow, he knows what Khalar is doing.

Khalar ROARS in rage, launching an all-out offensive. Conan

backs up slowly, waiting for his moment.

And it comes quickly. Conan ducks below the tulwars and CUTS

Khalar across the stomach. Khalar loses his balance and

falls, one hand grabbing a protruding statue arm, dangling

over the abyss.

Conan raises his sword to finish the job.

Conan glances down. The Acheronian Commander drank his fill,

and now moves to the altar itself, his claw stroking Tamara's

body. With one touch, the shackles open. He and the

Acheronian Warriors drag her pale body toward the abyss.

Khalar grins up at him through bloody teeth.

Conan leaps down to the altar. The Acheronian Warriors

attack. Standing atop the altar, Conan cuts down all comers,

cutting his way through the enemy, working his way to Tamara.

They leap on Conan, impossibly fast. They stab him. They cut

him. But he does not stop. Even wounded, he throws them into

the abyss.

And he reaches Tamara, just before the Commander drags her

below. He grabs her arm. The Commander grabs her other arm,

baring his shark-like teeth.

BLAM! Conan punches him in the mouth with his free hand and

the Commander falls into the abyss.

The bloody Conan pulls Tamara up into his arms. Only for

Tamara to scream.

Conan spins just in time as Khalar strikes. Khalar's tulwar

narrowly misses, and Conan counters. His father's sword runs

Khalar Singh through.

Khalar's body falls into the abyss.

But the Acheronian Warriors surround them. Thousands climb

out of the abyss, teeth bared, closing in on the wounded

Conan. Tamara, badly weakened herself, grabs Conan.

A tear falls from Tamara's face. The demonic warriors prepare

to strike.

Conan drives his sword into Tamara's heart. The crown spikes

retract and it falls from her head, tumbling into the abyss.

BOOM! A seismic explosion shakes everything, an unearthly

GUST OF WIND pulling the Acheronian Warriors back down into

the abyss.

The cave begins to fall, massive sections of the roof

dropping in to decimate the pyramid and the city below.

Conan pulls Tamara's body away, even as the world descends

into dust and debris.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Khalar's HORSE stands near the entrance. Conan puts Tamara's

body carefully atop the horse, then mounts it himself. He

positions her in front of him, his arms encircling her.

Conan gives her lifeless body one last kiss, her blood

staining his lips red, as his mother's did as a child.

EXT. HIGH PLATEAU - DAWN

A blazing sun threatens to explode over the nearby mountains.

Conan holds a single torch in his hand. His look is hard.

Grim.

We pull back to reveal a funeral pyre, Tamara's body atop it.

Conan places the torch to the pyre. It quickly spreads.

We move in, closer and closer upon Conan's ice blue eyes, a

blazing fire erupting in them. A fire that will never be

extinguished.

