Also known as DUNE, home of the Fremen, former

Zenzunni wanderers.

BLACK

FADE IN to the dark eyes of the mysterious face of

the REVEREND MOTHER RAMALLO, who sits against smooth

black rock. Her eyes are deep blue-within-blue and

her skin is a haunting translucent white. Her voice

ECHOES as if in a great cavern.

Silence...then a powerful low organ NOTE resounding

in the cavernous space.

The Reverend Mother continues speaking of the

Prophecy, but we do not hear it. The huge wind organ

BLOWS louder and louder, obscuring her voice.

The picture FADES.

Home planet of House Corrino and Shadam IV, Emperor

of the known universe.

FADE IN to:

...interior of one drop of water. The image changes

subtly.

PULL BACK to a shot revealing the outside of the

drop. There is a distant ROARING and within the drop

we can see the distorted image of a space ship

landing on a sophisticated landing field.

On the dark landing field, chemicals spill out of

the ship in troughs and tank-suited Guildsmen begin

to swarm out of a hatch opening.

The EMPEROR is surrounded by crowds of COURTIERS in

his Throne Room.

Suddenly a GUARD enters from a small door and

quickly crosses to ANOTHER GUARD. A warning SOUND

begins. The Emperor turns nervously. Guards quickly

begin to clear the large room. Several women are

rushed toward us to a door beyond. One of the woman,

IRULAN, stops and turns back for a worried, caring

look to her father, the Emperor.

She sees that SARDAUKAR OFFICERS are surrounding him

now, speaking to him. Irulan turns and leaves. The

Emperor moves away from his officers to the center

of the now-empty room. He drops his golden robe from

his shoulders. He stands in his elegant black

uniform, thinking.

The Reverend Mother is ushered in and the Sardaukar

Officers leave her alone with the Emperor.

Under the carved inscription "Law is the Ultimate

Science", the doors to the Emperor's chambers slide

open and FIFTY GUILDSMEN wheel in a forty-foot long

giant black box. One of the Guildsmen addresses the

Emperor through a translating device.

The Emperor looks to the Reverend Mother.

The Reverend Mother enters through doors and takes a

seat on a chair just outside the door. She closes

her eyes.

Inside the Emperor's chamber, the TANK-SUITED

GUILDSMEN are arranging themselves in a "V"

formation around the box. Suddenly the box opens,

slowly and beautifully revealing a huge, thick glass

tank. Inside the tank floats a THIRD STAGE NAVIGATOR

twenty feet long, much like a cross between a pasty,

pale human being and a fleshy grasshopper.

The tank is filled with swirling orange spice-gas,

and Guildsmen continuously vacuum up the toxic

chemical spills dripping from under the tank.

Suddenly the Guild Navigator swims towards the

Emperor. His head is enormous and fleshy, like a

huge grasshopper head -- the eyes are totally deep

blue. His voice is a high, fleshy whispering and an

intricate electrical apparatus in the front of the

tank translates into English and broadcasts it into

the room.

No answer.

Outside the Emperor's chamber the Reverend Mother

sits, her eyes closed, straining.

A very blurred scene of the Emperor with the Guild

Navigator. She is not getting the English version

but a much different language version which is

fascinating to listen to. A lilting, sing-song

monologue.

The Navigator breathes the spice-gas heavily and

swishes gently in his tank.

Outside, the Reverend Mother is seeing the scene

mentally. She suddenly sees and flinches.

The Guild Navigator turns toward her and comes very

close to her. We hear the Navigator speak to her.

The Guild Navigator shudders and swishes quite

violently in his tank.

High on the rock cliff stands Castle Caladan, Its

appearance us dark and medieval. There is a window

on the seaward wall lit from within...

...by a drifting glowglobe. Paul sits at an L-shaped

table studying filmbooks and maps of Arrakis and the

Universe.

We SEE vast star fields and galaxies.

We SEE the galaxies move as we HEAR a HUM.

We HOLD on this, then we see Arrakis grow larger in

the filmbook screen and we SEE it is a planet of

vast deserts.

The picture grows larger again, and we see the

Arrakeen Valley.

The star fields and galaxies move slightly then.

In the background, FOOTSTEPS grow louder, pounding

on thick wooden floors. THUFIR HAWAT, GURNEY HALLECK

and DR. YUEH enter. Paul has his back to the door.

Thufir suddenly looks perturbed when he notices

this.

Hawat suppresses a smile.

Paul rises and turns to face them.

Thufir scowls.

Gurney draws his knife.

Gurney activates his body shield, sending a

shimmering FORCE FIELD around his body. He advances

swiftly toward Paul. Paul snaps on his FORCE FIELD,

draws his knife and jumps back, collecting himself

hurriedly for the fight.

Gurney leaps high, then forward, pressing a furious

attack. Paul falls back. The shield edges CRACK

loudly as they touch each other.

Paul presses forward and the fight moves quickly

around the room. The smell of ozone grows stronger

as the shields hit and SPARK off one another. Paul

directs a parry downwards, turns, and leads Gurney

against the table, plunging at just the right moment

to pin Gurney against the table top with his blade

right at Gurney's neck.

Paul looks and sees Gurney's blade at his groin.

Paul stands and snaps off his shield as does Gurney.

Thufir, Yueh, Gurney and Paul stare at each other

for a moment in silence. Dr. Yueh moves forward and

begins to take Paul's pulse rate and to collect

other data with a small black machine.

They smile at each other.

Paul bows.

Thufir, noticing a SQUAD OF GUARDS at the other end

of the training room, calls out to them.

Gurney activates a series of locks.  LIGHTS GLOWS

above each doorway.

Suddenly a FIGHTER ROBOT lowers from the ceiling.

As the robot begins to rotate and go through several

frightening, complicated movements, Dr. Yueh places

a plastic device around Paul's neck.  He tightens it

around the Adam's apple above Paul's voice box.

Paul turns and emits a very strange, powerful sound

through the weirding module as he rushes towards the

robot.

The hallway is empty in the foreground but in the

distance a changing of the guard is seen.

Paul walks down the stairway.  In the distance,

moving troops are packing Atreides belongings.

Beyond, Paul sees some troops carrying a large

bull's head.  The horns are covered with dried

blood.

Suddenly, DUNCAN IDAHO appears from behind the giant

black head.

Paul walks to meet his father near the wall.

They look out over the sea.  A huge wave crashes

below.

The Duke turns to Paul.

Paul smiles up at his father.  The WIND blows the

Duke's hair and behind him stands the castle and the

green and black Atreides banner against the night

sky beyond.  The RAIN starts again -- lightly.  Paul

takes a closer look at the Atreides banner moving in

the wind.

Paul's attention goes to his father's hand where he

sees the Duke's signet ring.  Again he smiles at his

father.

Paul is sweating during his sleep and WHISPERS as if

struggling with some disturbing thought.

We see Paul's dream. It is very dark.

Suddenly a drop falls into the black, and white hot

widening rings appear on the dark water's surface.

Darkness again. Two moons rise in the darkness. As

the second appears:

Dark again. A figure turns toward Paul. It is a

BEAUTIFUL GIRL in deep shadow. She speaks.

CU Paul's face in fitful sleep.

In a small stone courtyard, the back-lit figure of a

woman moves towards us through the heavy RAIN and

darkness. As she nears us, the large, protective

glowglobe overtakes her and in an instant we see a

beautiful woman -- JESSICA.

The doors open, she meets the Reverend Mother Gaius

Helen Mohiam (the Emperor's truthsayer) and takes

her back toward the Castle. The rain rushes loudly

into the storm drains.

CU Paul's face.

Paul's eyes snap open. He hears footsteps outside

his door. As the door opens he closes his eyes,

however, and he pretends to be asleep. Jessica and

the Reverend Mother enter and stand in the doorway

looking at him.

Jessica turns to the Reverend Mother, stunned! She

turns back to look at Paul. Her hands tremble.

She turns and walks away. Jessica remains at the

door and calls out to Paul in the darkness.

Jessica leaves, closing the door behind her. Paul

sits up in bed.

Jessica and the Reverend Mother enter. It is quite

dark. Jessica WHISPERS a code number and a glowglobe

LIGHTS on a very dim setting.

Under a dim glowglobe, the DUKE is writing a note on

a scroll-like piece of paper.

Finishing reading, the Duke seals the message in a

cylinder and presses his signet ring, with a red

hawk symbol of House of Atreides, into a hole, which

seals the cylinder with a swift HISSING.

He pauses, studying the metal tube. With a VOICE

COMMAND, he extinguishes the glowglobe above him. He

leans back in his chair as lightning flashes outside

the window.

FADE TO:

Paul enters the room and Jessica closes the door

behind them.

Jessica leaves the room. The Reverend Mother speaks

to Paul using The Voice, a Bene Gesserit training

which permits an adept to control others merely by

selected tone shadings of the voice. It sounds as if

two people are talking -- one normal and the other

gutteral and slightly electronic. The effect is

strange, yet subtle.

Paul finds he cannot help but obey her, yet he

fights her controlling him.

She sees him struggling.

The Reverend Mother holds up a green metal cube.

Paul stares at the hole in the box.

Just then, she raises one hand to his neck. Paul

sees a glint of metal. He tries to back away.

Paul's hand goes in. Fear passes over his face.

The Reverend Mother moves her face up to his. Her

ancient face with its metal teeth gleaming inches

away breathes hotly. She is smiling.

Paul's inner mind sees his hand on fire with all

sorts of sores. The skin is bubbling.

He pictures this. The destruction of his hand is

complete -- now only blood spurts out and burns.

Paul's face registers extreme pain.

Paul pulls his hand out of the box. No sign of

anything wrong. He turns his hand, flexes his

fingers. He looks to the Reverend Mother.

Suddenly the Reverend Mother holds her hand against

Paul's head. She closes her eyes.

She sees a blurred image of Paul's earlier dream.

She sees the beautiful girl turn. She hears a

muffled voice say "Tell me of your homeworld, Usul".

Jessica enters immediately and sees with great

relief that Paul is still active.

She tries to hold him.

The Reverend Mother covers herself and moves quickly

to the door.

HOME PLANET OF HOUSE HARKONNEN - As seen from space,

the black planet as we saw it in Paul's filmbook.

The surface of the planet is a vast sea of black

oil. A small cable car traverses high above the sea

toward a gigantic black city in the shape of a

rectangular box over 100 stories high. Before the

city there are rows of huge black towering steel

heads atop massive furnaces. SMOKE billows out of

their mouths.

Inside the cable car stands PITER. In one hand he

holds the cylinder with DUKE Leto's ring imprint.

Somewhere in the interior of Geidi Prime, we are in

a green porcelain room. Two large Harkonnen

soldiers, using large hoses, are washing down the

walls and floors of the room. WE MOVE DOWN into the

water rushing along the floor towards troughs.

Closer, WE SEE bits of flesh, hair, and blood.

The car zooms past gigantic faces, and the furnaces

far below ROAR with tremendous power. The city now

looms gigantic and overpowering -- millions of

electrical cables stretch off the top into dark

energy taps above the city.

Inside the city the cable car passes into a huge

inner chamber filled with open-topped lime green

porcelain rooms with tremendous electrical lines

criss-crossing above.

In front of a huge steam boiler, the cable car stops

and Piter gets out, steps down steel stairs and

enters a porcelain room where the Baron is being

treated by a DOCTOR for sores on his face and body.

The doctor uses a lasbeam on a big sore on the

Baron's lips. The Baron is sickly and hugely fat and

sweaty and looks like he has been sickly for some

time. He turns to Piter as he enters the room.

Piter moves up to the Baron.

He throws down the cylinder.

His assistant does so.

Rabban breaks open a squood (living food).  The

squood makes a tiny SCREAM, then Rabban drinks the

blood and bodily fluids.  He throws the empty

container of tiny animal meat into the dark water

trough running through the center of the room.

Across the room, TWO HARKONNEN SOLDIERS enter,

holding big guns on a BOY who is wearing white

pants.  The Baron smiles when he sees the boy, who

is deeply afraid.  The guards force the boy to

arrange violet flowers on a stand by the far wall

opposite the Baron.

The Baron gives a hand signal and seven gates in the

wall open, emitting tremendous SOUNDS.  Suddenly the

Baron begins to float straight up, twenty-five feet

in the air.  It is a frightening sight.  He floats

down under the giant, humming electrical tube light

and rubs his head and body with a black fluid which

drips from tiny holes in either side of the pink

glow.  Feyd and Rabban watch nervously.  The

Attendants stand completely still with fear.

The Baron swoops down to the Boy, who stands

petrified.  The Harkonnen guards smile nervously as

they step slightly backwards.  The boy begins

SCREAMING as the Baron pulls the boy's heart plug,

located in his chest.  The violet flowers are bumped

and disarrayed by the violence which ensues.  Then

the Baron turns smiling to Feyd as the SOUNDS

continue to roar.

A DRUM CORPS pounds out a powerful cadence in front

of a water and cannon show as the Duke, Paul and

Jessica mount the steel stairs to their ship.  In

the doorway, they turn back for a final look.

The Duke places a hand on Paul's shoulder.  We see

the signet ring.  Jessica is there.  She tries to

get Paul to look at her but he scowls and turns to

his father.

The door of the spaceship closes.

3,415 Atreides ships are approaching the Guild

Heighliner, which is staggeringly colossal.  The

Atreides ships look like dots next to the sun.  The

Duke's ship enters the frame and moves toward the

Heighliner.

Paul, Jessica and Duke Leto look out the forward

viewing glass as tiny lights move outside in the

darkness. They hear and feel their ship stop with a

huge, echoing, metallic jolt. They look at each

other in the silence which follows.

They wait.

We pass through electrical shields into a 2,000-foot

high control room filled with orange spice gas. On

the floor are large gratings covering an exhaust and

filtering system. Tons of spice gas are being

converted into the clouds of gas along a wall of

machinery. From within a dark metal tunnel comes a

Guild Navigator. He exits the tunnel and swims

through the gas 1,000 feet to a six-dimensional

layered miniature replica of the entire Universe.

The Navigator emits a long piece of light from his

mouth which travels to one edge of the Universe and

changes into a likeness of the planet Caladan. The

Navigator turns and emits another piece of light

which travels to the opposite side of the Universe.

It changes into a likeness of Arrakis. The Navigator

begins to put his slender fingers in amongst the

stars and he emits SOUNDS and bursts of light into

the mass of stars and galaxies. The Universe begins

to vibrate and elongate, then to curve. Electrical

lightening traverses from Caladan to Arrakis as the

Universe bends into a U-shape. Arrakis submerges

deep into the light. The navigator swims to the

point where Arrakis disappeared. He begins to pull

and tear a hole in the Universe. Stars like sparks

and SOUNDS and rings of light appear, along with a

roaring WIND. The Navigator swims deep into this

hole through the rings of light. The Navigator

becomes more and more transparent, until he's lost

in darkness. The sounds fade.

Suddenly, the real planet Arrakis appears and the

giant Heighliner materializes above it.

Through a brownish-orange haze appears the dusty

valley of Arrakeen.

The Atreides ship has landed at Arrakeen. The door

is open - the family walk down the steps - DUKE LETO

with his dog - PAUL and JESSICA.

... clusters of troops standing at attention around

the enormous dark, cool doorway as the Duke, Paul

and Jessica enter the Palace.

The Atreides banner is raised on the top of the

Palace.

Atreides army soldiers milling, YELLING noisily.

In a darkened passageway, fans turn, casting deep,

slow-moving shadows. SOUNDS ECHO in the distance.

A room of technicians and electronic gear. The

SIGNALS are being heard and interpreted.

Far in the distance in deep black rock, Harkonnen

spies move, carrying strange electronic equipment.

Thufir marches down a hallway with a squad of TROOPS

with electronic gadgetry, LIGHTS and SOUNDS going

constantly.

Down in the basement, Atreides engineers are

removing a complicated device from heavy machinery.

A MAN radios back to Thufir.

The engineers activate a series of atometric

Holtzman generators. Suddenly SOUNDS begin. The

machines start; at first low, then they WHINE

upwards to a high pitch. When the pitch is steady, a

series of levers are pulled.

Just after the second set of levers is pulled, a

huge house shield is seen going up in a box shape,

encompassing the Palace with SHIMMERING protection.

From a small window, Thufir observes the shield with

a critical eye.

Two giant glowglobes drift into the Great Hall where

Jessica and Dr. Yueh stand watching a giant bull's

head is being hung above the massive fireplace. The

MOVING TROOPS are unpacking crates and organizing

furnishings. Jessica watches them. Distant SOUNDS

reverberate inside an elaborate air vent beside

them.

Jessica sees a droplet of sweat break out on Yueh's

cheek.

Above them a series of iron curtains begins to open

over deep rock window slots, sending  narrow shafts

of light down across the room. TWO ATREIDES WOMEN in

uniform approach.

Dr. Yueh turns to Jessica.

He turns a yellow light on a moves it over the

crowd. The yellow light beam plays over the blue-

within-blue eyes. One of the women, the Shadout

Mapes, watches Jessica continuously. Yueh's hand

shakes slightly.

Paul wanders through the darkened passageways alone,

his footsteps echoing as goes. He takes pleasure

observing the details of the rock Palace but all the

while he feels an uneasiness -- a feeling of fear

builds in him.

Paul enters a small bedroom and sits down on the

bed. He opens the filmbook, and activates it.

We SEE a gigantic carryall lower down above a spice

harvester and pick it up off the desert floor as a

narrator speaks over.

Paul looks up. Across the room he sees a tray of

small pastries which have been laid out. He goes to

them and scans them with his poison detector, which

he carries on his belt. A pleasant tone SOUNDS and

the word "safe" appears in green light. Paul takes a

pastry bites it and turns back towards the bed.

Suddenly he stops. He looks at the pastry.

As he continues eating he notices the sunlight

through the slates over the window begins to GLOW

white hot. Paul's eyes are intense as the light

GLOWS brilliantly.

Some red droplets appear rushing through the white

light. Three images follow:

MENTAL IMAGES:

A blurred Guild Navigator.

Before he can speak the Shadout Mapes is gone --

running off down the passageway. Jessica enters.

Running TROOPS storm down the hallway with

electronic gear and big stun guns.

Thufir walks quickly toward SEVERAL TROOPS.

Dr. Yueh sticks his head out the doorway as SEVERAL

TROOPERS run past.

Duke Leto is calling on a radio phone. GENERALS

surround him, as well as Gurney.

TROOPS come off an elevator. The glow-span indicates

the very bottom floor of 18 sub-floors. The ground

is uneven rock and the ceiling is low. The troops

fan out shining chemical lamps here and there. A

soldier suddenly stops. Ahead in his light is a dead

Harkonnen -- bloody vomit dried around his mouth. He

lies beside an electronic device.

Dr. Yueh covers his face with his hands in a

darkened room... sobbing.

SEARCHLIGHTS sweep over the faces of City Fremen who

are sitting or moving solemnly around the outer wall

of the Palace. Some are chanting "Mahdi" and "Lisan

al-Gaib." Others hold up one open hand as a sign

they feel the messiah is near. A slow-moving spike-

backed dog sucks ants up out of a small anthill; he

snorts.

In the darkened Hall we can HEAR the distant sound

of the Fremen reverberating.

Duke Leto sits with Paul, Thufir, EIGHT GENERALS and

SIX SUB-LIEUTENANTS. The Duke's small dog wanders

under the table and rests his head on the Duke's

boot. In front of Thufir is a device FLASHING

brilliant light bursts over his face. The others are

all talking among themselves. Suddenly Thufir's face

turns brilliant red (as red as his sapho-stained

lips) and he begins speaking rapidly into the

machine in code using a strained high voice.

The machine FLASHES several bright irregular

SIGNALS. Then it stops and HUMS. The blood leaves

Thufir's face.

The hum stops. Thufir turns to Duke Leto. He looks

up. Everyone is quiet now.

Gurney strides off. Thufir sits, contemplating. Paul

and Duke Leto smile at each other and shake their

heads.

Jessica is sitting in a small room, smiling, reading

a note. It reads "I miss you. Leto." She sets the

note down. She begins to tremble. She becomes

fearful. In her mind she SEES quick images:

MENTAL IMAGES

A blurred Guild Navigator.

Paul dead on a stone floor.

Fire burning.

Jessica continues to tremble.

Outside in the passageway, feet suddenly move

quietly toward the door to Jessica's room.

Jessica HEARS this and looks up just as the Shadout

Mapes silently enters her room.

Mapes takes a step backward to flee.

Slowly Mapes reaches into her dress and brings out a

sheathed knife. She unleashes it.

Mapes SCREAMS with elation and grief.

Mapes sheathes the blade... slowly

With a GASP Mapes drops the knife into Jessica's

hands and opens her blouse.

Jessica withdraws the knife from the sheath and,

with the blade, scratches a line just above Mapes'

right breast.

Jessica's eyes stare ahead. She knows these words

ring with truth.

The Duke, Paul and SEVERAL ARMED GUARDS enter a

tunnel to a `thopter landing pad which is

illuminated by a shaft of light coming from a

chimney-like exit above. DR. KYNES and his Fremen

guard are standing next to Gurney.

Gurney turns and activates a device...

...which causes the ornithopter behind to fold open

ready for flight.

The two parties meet and are introduced.

Kynes' FREMEN GUARDS, hearing this are siezed with

agitation. Kynes QUIETS them, then studies Paul.

Gurney and the guard move forward warily.

Kynes comes forward and adjusts the Duke's suit,

checking seals and pulling on straps.

Gurney steps back.

The Duke is now properly fitted. Kynes places the

noseplug into his nose.

He removes the noseplug.

Kynes turns to Paul, running his hands over the

slick fabric. He stands back with a puzzled

expression.

Your suit is fitted desert fashion. Who told you how

to do that?

Kyne's Fremen guard are watching Paul very closely

now.

Duke Leto, Dr. Kynes, Gurney and Paul enter the

ornithopter...

Jessica trembles.

...and the thopter turns slowly as it goes up into

the light.

From outside the Palace's atomic shield we see the

blur of the ornithopter pass through a porthole and

come out perfect like a gleaming jewel.

They crest the top of the wall which opens out into

a black, level expanse of rock, cratered and

fractured. On the other side is the huge, seemingly

endless plain of sand, the Great Desert. In the hazy

distance, flashes of light can be seen.

Kynes turns instantly and stares at Paul. Gurney

sees the wonder in Kynes' eyes.

Kynes takes a second look at young Paul.

Kynes grabs the microphone and dials in the correct

frequency.

From the window, we see that the sand below is

rippling, like water with a big fish just under the

surface.

Kynes clicks off the radio.

The Duke accelerates the ornithopter in the

direction of the harvester. Paul can SEE...

...huge amounts of sand being spewn out of the

gigantic stack atop the metal and plasteel

harvester.

The yellow cloud of the harvester envelops them. The

Duke flies up to get a closer look.

Everyone looks at one another.

Over the radio MANY VOICES report they have no

contact with the carryall.

He punches a control button and grabs a microphone.

Gurney and Paul turn to each other, worried.

All the spotters begin landing and the Duke descends

directly in front of the harvester which has stopped

mining yet emits a tremendous rythmic GRINDING

noise. No one is coming out.

Gurney nervously scans the sky for enemy ships. A

very low, powerful SOUND starts now and the ground

begins to shake.

A hatch opens and MEN come pouring out.

The ground is really shaking now.  A tremendous low

THUNDERING sound grows along with a high rasping

HISS.

FOUR MEN begin tumbling into the Duke's machine.

The men press on Gurney and Paul.  Paul can feel the

fear. The sound is a horrible ROAR and deeper

RUMBLING now and the `thopter is vibrating and

shaking violently.  The air suddenly begins to SPARK

with static electricity.

The Duke closes the doorways, surveys the area one

last time, then takes the controls.

The ship strains and lifts off -- slowly.

Paul sees the brown powder clumped on the suits of

the men... their bluish eyes.  He smells the spice.

He begins to feel its affect.

A spice miner turns and sees Kynes, who remains

silent.

Paul hears this, then looks to Kynes -- locks on his

image.

Paul looks down as the Duke banks over the

harvester.

Duke Leto walks into the room.  The NIGHT GUARD

comes to attention as he passes.  DUNCAN IDAHO,

wearing a dark, dusty stillsuit, emerges from the

shadows.  DUKE LETO and DUNCAN meet at the foot of

the steps.  The men embrace and separate.

Paul is in a fitful sleep.  Leto enters and smiles

at his son.

The Duke smiles at Paul then leaves the room, but

after he goes, Paul strains with all his might to

lift himself to call out.

The BARON's face --  expressionless.  The SOUND of

his ship screams in the background.  The DOCTOR is

seated beside him.

The Duke walks down the steps to a very narrow

passageway.  The passageway becomes very dark.

Suddenly the Duke hears a strange MEWLING sound.  He

turns down an even darker passageway.  He can hear

the shield WHINING in the distance.  He almost has

to feel his way.  Up ahead he sees a shape.  He

bends down and sees the SHADOUT MAPES dying on the

cold stone floor in the darkness.  She tries to

speak but cannot.  She falls.  Suddenly the Duke

HEARS the shield generator start whining down.

The Duke reaches to activate his shield be a large

dart is shot into his shoulder.  The Duke lurches

upwards then tumbles to the ground.  Out of the

darkness comes Dr. Yueh.  The dart drops and

CLATTERS as if a dream.

The generator WHINES lower and lower

Yueh removes the Duke's signet ring and shows it to

him.

He implants the tooth.

Yueh becomes more and more blurred.  His image

begins to fade.  His lips move in the darkness.  The

generator WHINE is low and going lower and lower.

ATREIDES GUARD #1 comes running down the steps and

up to the CAPTAIN and a TECHNICIAN.

A warning TONE begins.  TROOPS begin pouring onto

the field.

Troops race toward their ships.

A loud warning TONE vibrates.  Thufir turns away

from the doorway of a small room where he's

horrified to SEE...

... a chemical FIRE consuming the thousands of

Atreides weirding modules.

A thousand Harkonnen ships dive over Arrakeen and

the Palace.  Giant deep thunderous EXPLOSIONS

shatter the land.  Billowing SMOKE clouds column

upwards, forming a black wriggling death curtain

around the Palace.

Troops are running through the passageway, right and

left.  SMOKE is everywhere and the horrible SOUNDS

of the explosions continue.  The SOUNDS of stone

crunching, shifting, and breaking.  SCREAMS.  A wall

of stone suddenly cracks open.  A burst of air and

dust shoots out, HISSING.  The Duke's dog runs

through the passageway WHINING with fear.

Sardaukar rush out of a Harkonnen ship.  Their

electrically distorted faces come screaming toward

us.

Harkonnen hammer ships thunder the ground, sending

cracks and fissures throughout the landing field.

Harkonnen scare SIRENS scream.

Atreides soldiers run from the hammer ships.

FIRE and SMOKE.  SCREAMS.  An ATREIDES SOLDIER's

head is hit with a large white hot piece of

explosion.  Through the black smoke, large SARDAUKAR

chase after THREE SOLDIERS and them with hydraulic

knife-guns.  One blade enters the back of one man's

head and comes out his nose.  Tremendous NOISE of

battle.  Gurney and a squad of TROOPERS climb

through bodies and thick smoke.  Gurney has the

Duke's dog safely inside his coat.  The little dog's

head sticks out -- looking about.  Gurney strokes

the dog's neck when the reach safety behind some

rock.  Small glimpses, as the smoke moves this way

or that, let them see thousands of Sardaukar

fighting.

The CRY from the men rings out as they attack with

frenzy equalling that of the Sardaukar.

The distant HAMMERING of the Harkonnen hammer ship.

Jessica's eyes open and she sees two big boots but

they seem to be floating above the stone floor she

is lying on.  She is gagged and tied.  She looks up.

She sees the huge Baron Harkonnen staring down at

her.  In the distance she HEARS the battle raging.

Dr. Yueh covers his face with his hands in a

darkened room... sobbing.

The Baron floats across the room with suspensor-

borne lightness.

He spits on her cheek.  The Baron floats out of the

room into the passageway.

EFFECT

Duncan Idaho kills a Sardaukar soldier and rushes

forward frantically.  His eyes blaze intensely.  He

yells out to the other Atreides soldiers.

The soldiers disappear, searching in another

direction.  Duncan runs, pounding, down the

passageway -- his eyes searching in every doorway.

Suddenly twelve huge Sardaukar round a corner on a

quick march.  Duncan turns his shield up and charges

them.  Behind them he sees Paul and Jessica bound in

straps and being carried.

Duncan attacks and fights valiantly but he is

outnumbered.  In the fight the lights are blown out

and Duncan is killed by a slow stunner pellet

through the head.  Paul strains to help.

Paul and Jessica are carried off, quickly, through

the darkness.  The battle SOUNDS thundering.

- NIGHT - SHIELD EFFECT

Duncan's dead, shielded body slides sparking in the

dark against the passageway walls.

FIRE and SMOKE.

The Baron's face, the light of FIRE and EXPLOSIONS

playing over it.  The Baron turns as Piter ushers in

the traitor Yueh.

A sudden flash of hope crosses Yueh's face.

The Baron smiles, almost sympathetically.

Piter moves to Yueh, a knife glistening in his hand.

It flashes into his back.  A GASP escapes Yueh's

throat, a sad look passing over his face, as if to

say "I thought as much."  He stands stiffly, then

falls gasping.  He tastes his own blood, then dies.

Black smoke palms.

Rabban strides in front of his uncle's ship,

carrying Kynes over his shoulder.  Harkonnen and

Sardaukar SOLDIERS stand at attention.  Rabban tears

off Kynes' stillsuit. Kynes falls.

The small `thopter climbs toward the Shield Wall

through a SMOKEY atmosphere illuminated by distant

EXPLOSIONS.

Jessica and Paul, bound by cabin straps, lie in the

back, the two guards at the controls.  Outside,

`thopters and ships fly past them toward the city.

The distant FIRES play over Jessica's face as she

sees Yueh's triangular tattoo scratched in the cabin

roof.

Jessica looks to Paul.

He turns and hits Paul in the shoulder with a

stungun.  Paul recovers and starts taking long,

calming breaths.

Suddenly, Guard #1 reaches around and puts his hand

up Jessica's skirt.  He starts breathing hard.  Paul

clears his throat.

Guard #1 finds himself removing Jessica's gag.

Guard #2 turns away from his controls but seems

powerless to stop him.  Once, it's off Jessica

smiles seductively and writhes on the `thopter

floor.

The two men stare at one another a moment.  Then

Guard #1's hand, glinting silver, flashes into Guard

#2's chest, killing him.  Guard #1 pulls the knife

out, smiling.  The ornithopter begins to veer off

into a dangerous nose dive.

Guard #1 slowly cuts Paul's big straps, never taking

his eyes off Jessica.  The ornithopter gets closer

and closer to the top jagged surface of the Shield

Wall.

The blade cuts through the strap holding Paul's

legs.  Paul kicks upwards extremely powerfully and

his foot breaks through the man's chest cavity and

drives his heart up into his head, spewing blood out

the man's mouth.  Paul grabs the controls but it's

too late.  The ship falls into the rock.

The `thopter slides across the rock, shearing off a

wing.  Suddenly they are beyond the rock three miles

above the great desert and plummeting fast toward

the dunes below.

Paul pulls desperately on the controls and manages

to keep the ship aloft and flying into the deep

desert.

CU violently burning palm.

Nefud exits - TWO HARKONNENS wheel in the stretcher,

and swing it round - one of the GUARDS hands Piter

his knife back - the Guards exit and the door closes

- Piter moves up to Duke Leto and leans over him

moving his knife across the Duke's face.

The Baron flies down to the stretcher.

Leto shows no sign that he has heard.

Leto's POV:  The Baron and his Mentat are only DIM

FARAWAY SHAPES.  Their voices reach Leto as if

travelling across a greater distance.  The Baron

looks to Leto and then moves to him, looking him

over.

The Baron moves from behind a table stacked with

dirty dishes and foodstuffs and goes to Leto.

The Baron's face is now very close to Duke Leto's.

The Baron briefly wonders at these words and then

turns to Piter.

Piter moves forward.  The Baron sees a suculent

piece of chicken skin on the table.  He picks up the

plate, then the chicken skin.

Leto's POV:  It's grown HAZY again.  The Baron is

beginning to move away, reaching for the small piece

of chicken skin.  Piter leans close to Leto.

We hear a CRUNCH, hear a tumultuous RUSHING SOUND as

Piter's face is pushed forcibly away.  The Baron is

turning, a dumbfounded look on his face.  He drops

the plate, and backs away.

There is a tremendous ROARING.  Bits of visions of

Caladan rush through Leto's ever-darkening

consciousness --

MENTAL IMAGES:

The Atreides banner, the green of it, then the

black.  The blackness flaps; then all fades to

SILENCE.

As they fly deeper into the desert with the ship

shuddering and straining, Jessica suddenly cries out

with tremendous premonition and fear.

Tears course down her cheeks as Paul turns to her.

Duke Leto and Piter lie dead.

The Baron floats near the ceiling in a small

passageway.  He is ecstatic.

Paul is fighting the controls of the Harkonnen

`thopter.

Harkonnen `thopter lights on dunes.

The `thopter violently hits the sands and flips up -

- almost turning over.  It falls slowly back,  then

slides down the side of a dune.

He jumps out of his seat.

She hands him one.

As Paul puts the satchel over his shoulder, he feels

something.  He looks at his father's ring.  He

stares at it silently, then closes his hand around

it.  They jump outside.

Paul and Jessica running.  Paul pulls Jessica to a

place in the wall where a small overhang offers

shelter.  Jessica falls to the ground.  She CRIES,

pouring out her grief, but soon the sound of it is

carried away by the building rush of WIND.  Paul

turns and looks out to the open desert, this portion

of which is a dust ocean.

The Mouse Moon has risen.

Ripples of dust undulate tide-like in the light of

the moon.  The WHISPERING grains billow up like the

foam of waves as they hit the rock.

Paul turns, his face illuminated by the two moons

above.  His eyes lock on the moon which has the

image of the mouse.

We move into Paul's eye, where the mouse moon appear

and revolves slowly.  The moon begins to explode.

The pieces of the moon soar toward us burning with

white-hot flames.  Within the flames we see...

... the burning Palace of Arrakeen.  We move closer

to it.

We then see Duke Leto's face.  The Baron leans over

the Duke and clutches the skin on the Duke's face.

He begins pulling it.  The skin on the Duke's race

slowly rips open -- making a hideous tearing SOUND.

Black SMOKE issues forth from the hole which teats

larger.

Inside and through the SMOKE Paul sees Feyd tear the

Red Duke insignia off his father's uniform.  He sees

Feyd laughing.  The moving, now-brilliant red hawk

insignia becomes...

... a burning meteor ROARING over the castle on

Caladan.  The meteor crashes in the black sea.

Foaming confusion turning into a small, twisting

fetus under the sea.  Its eyes closed.  Moving close

to it, its eyes snap open.  Through the eyes is the

pale white face of JESSICA.

There is a huge soaring WIND sound and beyond

JESSICA the dunes roll like ocean waves.

The moon continues to spew out pieces of moving

images which are seen then disappear as fast as

sparks.  The broken, burning pieces float eerily

toward us over the undulating dunes below.  One

image floats closer.  It is a hand folded into a

fist.

The fist begins to open.

The hand opens fully with slow blue fluid pulsating

out the very center of the palm.  The hand floats

eerily forward.

The last image which passes is foaming and spitting

dark blue water.  As the image passes, the black

smoke trailing behind it obscures the picture to

blackness.

Through the darkness we move to Paul's clenched

hand.  It opens, revealing the signet ring in the

very center of his palm.  Paul looks upward to the

moons of Arrakis.  He looks back to the ring, then

to his mother.

Paul's head goes down.  He places the ring on his

finger.

Jessica cries as she stares at her son.

Rabban stops up the ramp.  He wears a large smile.

His thick head sweats and sweat runs down his thick

neck.  He goes inside and the doors swing closed.

He enters the ship and moves down within to the

Baron's headquarters, passing two dwarves cooking a

dead legless cow which hangs from chains.  Rabban

tears out the cow's tongue and eats it.  Then he

exits through a door which closes behind him.

The Baron is flying wildly, circling the outside of

a large steel shower, while Nefud and a DWARF play a

strange instrument producing maniacal, perverse,

screaming MUSIC.  The Baron SEES Rabban enter, but

continues to fly around the shower.

The Baron floats to Rabban and begins lovingly

massaging Rabban's massive neck as he speaks to him.

Rabban leaves just as Feyd steps out of the shower.

The Baron turns to him lovingly.

As Rabban leaves, he looks into one room of the

ship.  Behind the glass porthole sits Thufir Hawat

bound head and foot, his eyes darting this way and

that.

Paul and Jessica are in stillsuits.  Paul is looking

through a Fremkit.  He finds a paper with Dr. Yueh's

mark on it.

The moons have moved further across the sky.

Suddenly Paul turns and studies his mother.  A

stronger WIND comes up.

Jessica gets up.  They make their way up the crest

of a dune by a small rock.

Paul moves off into the shadows.  Suddenly, Jessica

SEES a burst of LIGHTNING illuminate the mountain of

rock in the distant and the vast dunes before them.

Paul plants the thumper which begins a powerful

rhythmic noise.  He turns to Jessica.

Paul and Jessica move into camera and exit right.

Another burst of LIGHTNING.  The distant rock seems

to have grown no larger.  Their muscles begin to

ache.  Suddenly they HEAR the thumper start behind

them.

Their breathing becomes very labored.  The sand

moves like slow water, forever rolling down and up.

Then they hear the worm, the low thundering HISS

shaking the tonnage of sand.  The thumper stops.

Paul turns.

Their bodies ache and they feel like dropping, yet

the cliff is still a good distance away.  The worm

SOUND grows louder and Paul turns to look.

A flash of LIGHTNING.  The worm is now coming toward

them.  The mound of sand over the worm is enormous

and is approaching at a terrifyingly fast speed.

The power of this worm is awesome.

She turns to see.  Then she runs.

All at once their feet tromp down on firmer sand.

The SOUND is very loud.

The DRUMMING sound ECHOES deep within the ground.

Jessica falls.  Paul stops and drags her up.  They

run again.  The worm SOUND becomes unbearably loud.

Static electricity SPARKS giant bolts of pure white

LIGHTNING and the air turns to ozone.  Finally they

find rock.  Behind them the SOUND of the worm

changes.  They turn.

The gigantic head of the worm is just breaking

through the sand.  The mouth begins to open in an

eighty-foot circle of teeth and darkness.  The mouth

arches forward searching for them.

Paul and Jessica climb up and up inside a narrow

slit of rock.

The worm's mouth climbs higher also but it cannot

penetrate the narrow opening in the rock.

Paul and Jessica have scrambled upwards a couple of

hundred feet.

Still the worm stretches up to them.  Suddenly the

worm begins BANGING on the rock.  Huge SHUDDERS

drive through the black stone.  Over and over again

the worm mindlessly hits at the rock.

Paul and Jessica crouch further back in the tiny

passageway of safety, but a solid back wall of rock

prevents them from moving back any more.

The breath from the worm is like a hurricane of

WIND.

Suddenly a colossal section of the rock wall cracks

and topples off into the worm's mouth.  Instantly

the worm pulls back.  A huge FIRE roars deep within

the worm consuming the rock.

The worm now can get even closer to Paul and

Jessica.  It looms up again and crushes its mouth up

against the rock.

Another fissure opens, and suddenly half the rock

wall protecting them splits off entirely and

falls... taking Paul with it.

...against the worm.

Paul is knocked off the cliff and falls straight

down two hundred feet.  His feet skid along the face

of rock.  He bounces and brakes.  He hits and jumps.

He careens from one boulder, flies upside down,

rights himself then tumbles and skids into the sand.

Unhurt, he jumps up and scrambles up another part of

the rock to safety.

She presses against the narrow ledge that is left

after the worm assault.

The worm is just coming up again when distant

THUMPING is heard.  The worm, as if charmed by the

sound, turns and moves off towards it.

Jessica climbs further up and manages to get over to

a place where she can meet up with Paul, who is now

climbing back.

They climb upwards until the ledge ends at the mouth

of a dark crevice.  Paul and Jessica try to see into

the inky black hole.

Slowly Paul and Jessica enter, inching forward.  A

low moan of WIND comes up.  Paul can see nothing,

then suddenly he SEES stars above and SEES the hint

of stairs cut into the rock.

They climb the steps and enter an extremely narrow

dark channel of stone.  As they make their way

through the rock, suddenly there is a burst of

lightning which illuminates a whole troop of Fremen

standing silently in front of them.

A LOW NOTE on a dip stick is blown by one of the

Fremen tribe.  Jessica shifts, Paul sees it, and

just as Stilgar begins a reach for his weapon,

Jessica turns, slashes out, utters a SOUND, whirls

again and with rock behind her holds Stilgar

helpless in front of her -- her hand at his throat.

Paul moves on her first move.  He races up a rocky

incline.

He then jumps higher up and presses himself between

two rocks on a low cliff overlooking the rest of the

Fremen troop.

The troop starts shooting projectile weapons in

Paul's direction.

Up on the rock, Paul turns.  He takes a step, then

notices a small figure standing in front of him.  It

is a girl.

Paul stares at her in wonder.

They exit.

Wind blows a cloud of dust through the rock.  High

above the moon with the mouse shadow glows

brilliantly.  It dissolves into the sun.

Paul, Jessica and the Fremen march through the

dunes.

HEAT WAVES and sand dunes.  Mysterious SOUNDS echo

in the distance as the giant sun is setting.

Chani takes Paul to the top of a dune.  They stare

at the sunset and a huge rock outcropping in the

distance.

Paul looks at the rock, then turns to her.

These words rend Paul's soul.  He cannot speak.  He

reaches out and touches her hand - her cheek.

The Fremen troop enters into a large square room

with slot passageways going off in various

directions.

They all move down one of the passageways which are

beautifully but very plainly cut with lasguns.  They

are like passages in the pyramids, dark with sharp

turns and inclines upwards or downwards, some very

steep and long, and others descending hundreds of

feet.  There is a strong, moaning WIND.

A quiet WIND can be heard -- deep and moaning.

She looks at Paul.  He, too, notices.

Down a long, sloping, narrow passageway they go

until they reach a stairway cut into the stone.  It

is very dark and gets increasingly darker as they

descend.  The WIND sound grows.  The air grows

colder and damper.  Paul and Jessica share another

questioning look.  At the bottom of the stairs they

pass through a narrow slot doorway which suddenly

opens out on something so totally unexpected it

shocks Paul.

It is enormous, deep reservoir of black water

sitting silently in the depths of this sietch and

stretching out into the darkness.

There is the sound of water dripping.  The lights

are extinguished - reflections play on Paul's face.

Thousands of Fremen wait below.  Paul enters a rock

ledge, guided by two monks, which is crowded with

Fremen and old Fremen Monks.  Below the crowds

continue to watch and wait while a giant wind organ

moans.  A Monk steps up to Paul.

Paul turns and gathers courage to address the

multitude below.

Large room with a low ceiling.  A drummer playing

makes a low ECHOING MUSICAL HIT.  A big block of

stone is moved across coarse sand -- back and forth

-- fast.  A rhythm is started -- powerful.  Paul

enters, pauses and looks to Jessica - he stands in

front of over 100 Fremen men.  Jessica sits behind

him alongside Stilgar.

A large rock obelisk has been placed near Paul for

this demonstration.

The Fremen laugh -- the rock doesn't move.

A Fremen with a lasgun tries to cut it.  Paul

motions him back, slightly.

Paul also moves back.  He switches on his weirding

module.  He opens his mouth and makes a small SOUND,

which the module amplifies.

The sound shatters the obelisk to pieces.  The one

hundred Fremen YELL with surprise and awe.

Stilgar turns to Jessica.

Fremen carry the Fremen REVEREND MOTHER RAMALLO in

on a litter.  The old Reverend Mother is old a frail

yet extremely beautiful and mysterious.  She turns

to Paul and Jessica with a strange look.

She turns away towards the monks who are very busy

blowing horns and waving pots of burning spice,

purifying the area of the rite.  Several Fremen blow

on dip sticks and a FEMALE CHOIR begins a haunting

chorale as the giant pipe organ blows beautiful low

notes below.

Paul looks to his mother.

He then sees Chani.

CU Chani.

CU Paul -- he cannot stop looking at her.

Stilgar motions to Paul.

He shows Paul through a narrow passageway -- almost

a slot through the stone to a small room.  Through

an opening in the stone wall, Paul is shown a very

strange and somewhat horrifying scene.

A thirty-foot baby worm is being lowered into a

stone chamber.  The chamber is then covered with a

wire top.  Valves are turned and water rushes into

the chamber.  The worm begins to writhe violently

and leap and bang against the bars above.  The worm

begins to turn inside out from the mouth back and it

begins to gag.  Some monks and watermasters quickly

drain the stone chamber and wrench the worm out

using large steel hooks.  They hold the worm above a

large tub.  A watermaster-reed man runs a long reed

in to the worm, causing it to spasm and gag up a

beautiful deep blue bile as it dies.

The bile and worm water are combined in ceremonial

containers.  Paul turns to Stilgar.

Then we HEAR from Paul's memory his conversation

with the Reverend Mother:

Stilgar and Paul return to the ledge above the Hall

of Rites.  A MONK PRIEST steps forward, addresses

the crowd, silencing them.  The other monks move

back carrying their smoking cleansing bags.

He brings the jug close to Jessica.

Jessica drinks.

She swallows.  Her body contorts and spasms

violently.  She screams.  The Reverend Mother

screams with her.

We see Jessica sitting, shoulders tight and spasming

-- straining, her eyelids half-closed and

flickering.

The old Reverend Mother slowly extends a hand toward

Jessica's shoulder.

Inside Jessica, we see the Reverend Mother Ramallo's

hand descend through the dark void.  Shimmering

water starts to ripple, lightly stirring an image of

Jessica.

As the hand penetrates, something deep within her

starts to GLOW.  It is a fetus, a female.  The

Reverend Mother Ramallo's hand flinches as it

touches the fetus.  The fetus sparks to life -

screaming and rapidly spasming upwards on its

umbilical cord.

Jessica and the fetus rush mentally through a dark

strangely worm-like tunnel until suddenly, a gaping

black hole appears.  A horrible WIND, SPARKS and

circles of expanding light issues from it.

The fetus twists down the tunnel to join Jessica,

her umbilical cord trailing behind.  She SCREAMS as

she looks into the hole.

She and Jessica see a shape moving deep within the

windy hole.  It is a Third Stage Navigator, ROARING.

She quickly takes the fetus back up the tunnel.  As

they move:

The old Reverend Mother Ramallo slumps forward onto

the stone, dead.  The crowd waits.  The corpse is

tenderly removed.  Jessica very slowly opens her

eyes and looks about her.  The monk holds the jug to

her lips.

Jessica spews water into the spout.  The monk swirls

the jug, sniffs at the spout and then drinks.

The Fremen suddenly turn their attention to Paul....

They whisper "It is the prophecy!"  They soon begin

to CHANT... "Muad'dib....  Muad'dib" over and over

again.  The chanting sounds fill the hall along with

the ghostly wind organ.

Down below, the crowds continue CHANTING "Muad'dib,

Muad'dib."

Paul continues to stare at Chani.  He moves to her.

Chani turns.  Paul is at her side.  Their eyes meet

and lock.

At the end of the dark black corridor, Chani turns

and she and Paul fall together in a long kiss filled

with love.

The Baron and Feyd descend several steps into a

darker area of Geidi Prime.  Feyd is carrying a

strange creature in a small wire cage.  The Baron is

floating as he descends.

Nefud stands eating candies behind Thufir's chair.

Nefud has a stun gun, even though Thufir's hands are

tied.  The Baron enters with Feyd.

Thufir gives the Baron a weak, wide-eyed stare.

Jessica's face shows signs of straining.  Women move

around her, Chani and Harah at her side, helping her

give birth.  Suddenly ALIA is born and her freshly-

born moist body is held up in front of Jessica.

Alia's eyes snap open, burning brightly.

As they lift Alia for Jessica to see...

Paul walks down the steps into the training room -

followed by Harah's two sons.  He pauses at the foot

of the steps.

Paul activates his, and the Fremens follow suit.

Paul walks down the line of Fremen.

He fires the module and the arm of the robot is shot

off.  Paul smiles and hits him on the shoulder -

Paul walks on.

One of the FREMEN calls out to Paul.

The word `Muad'dib' causes a tremendous power to

build.  The module shakes violently in his hand - it

suddenly fires upwards, and the wall explodes.

He pauses, then holds up his brilliantly red hand.

An EXPLOSION.  Paul turns and his eyes are totally

blue.  He lifts binoculars to them and looks.  He

sees the Fremen fighters below charging at the

Harkonnens.  As the Fremen run they make powerful

SOUNDS with their weirding modules, exploding

everything in their path and catching things on

fire.

In the distance, a huge spice carryall is shot down

and it falls to the ground EXPLODING more violently

on impact.

Stilgar signals, and Fremen run behind them.

Paul smiles as he looks at the battle in the

distance.

Rabban stares dumbfounded as many Harkonnen wounded

and dead are brought through the passageway beyond.

Rabban grabs a Harkonnen and asks:

Rabban pushes him away.

HEAT WAVES; dunes.  A big thumper is forced into the

sands.  A RHYTHM is heard pounding on Fremen hand

drums and rhythm instruments.  Feet scramble.  Black

stillsuited Fedaykin warrior bodyguards gather.

Stilgar turns.

As Paul leaves the troop to plant the second

thumper:

In the distance the telltale SOUND of the worm's

approach begins.  This worm is deep underground and

the sound is low and the ground trembles violently.

The SOUND and VIBRATIONS continue to build.  In the

distance, the Fedaykin and Stilgar watch.

HEAT WAVES... dunes RHYTHM.  THUNDEROUS approach of

the worm.  Paul still cannot see the worm, but the

sound begins to drown out the Fremen rhythm

instruments and the sand begins to VIBRATE.

Suddenly, Paul SEES...

...a mountain of sands rise up, towering, thundering

-- lightning SPARKS fissuring throughout the air

above the worm.

The mountain approaches at a terrifying speed.

Then, the worm appears -- rushing.  The mouth, at

first a small opening, begins to widen -- exposing a

thousand glistening teeth.

Paul freezes.  He lets the worm get closer and

closer.  The HEAT WAVES distort the gigantic form,

making it more hideous -- more foreign.  He moves

forward.  The others watch anxiously.  This worm is

big.  It is so much larger than imaged.  Its top

towers 125 feet in the air.  The segments are each

ten feet wide.

Paul gets close and running alongside, he plants the

hook under a segment and pulls back.  The SOUND is

excruciatingly loud.  The sand is so deep and more

is being thrown out beneath the body of the worm.

Paul gets caught in it and falls. He narrowly

escapes being sucked under the beast.  He gets up --

runs again and plants the hook once more.  He runs

faster, bending the segment open to expose the

tender flesh.

Suddenly the worm begins to turn.  Paul pulls

himself up the body as it turns -- holding onto the

hook.  Soon he is fifty -- sixty -- seventy feet off

the ground -- going higher.  The giant worm gets the

second thumper and Paul at that moment climbs to the

top.  He plants the second hook.

Paul works the hooks into the breathing holes along

the body...

...causing the great beast to make a slow turn

toward Stilgar and the bodyguard.  They set

themselves and as the worm passes...

...they all clamber on, climbing up the sides to the

top.

They return the traditional CALL and Paul steers the

maker in a giant circle.  They head out across the

dunes.

Rabban and Harkonnens in the desert.  Rabban

observes tremendous destruction of his spice

harvesters and carryalls.

A furious Rabban sirs in a black steel tub in the

Great Hall.  A squad of TROOPS stands at attention

in front of him, listening to his screaming fit.

SMOKE billows from a burning harvester.

Fighting is going on between Fremen and some

smugglers.  Paul moves down a smokey dune with

Stilgar followed by Fremen and Fedaykin.

Paul and Stilgar move through the smoke.  A man runs

up with a maula pistol aimed at Paul but Paul spins

and punctures the man's chest with a sound from his

weirding module.  Paul turns and a large figure

comes through the smoke.  They surprise each other.

The figure holds a gun.

The figure stops -- stunned.

Paul shows him the signet ring on his fingers.

Gurney moves forward, his eyes tearing, and the two

embrace each other and pound each other on the back.

The Emperor sits on his throne.  Behind him are his

Sardaukar officers.  In front of him are several

Guildsmen.  One holds a large electrical apparatus

up to the face plate of another which translates his

strange voice into English.

The Guildsmen turn and leave.

Jessica sits with Harah.

At the end of the passageway, standing alone --

staring with powerful intense blue-within-blue eyes

-- is ALIA.  She's listening mentally.

Alia is listening - then exits.

Alia listens mentally.

Alia begins walking.  She appears to be angry.

Alia enters.

Harah's head nearly bursts with pain and she SCREAMS

as if she were dying.

Ships over Arrakis.

There is a growing, powerful sound of a worm

approaching as Paul and Chani are lying together in

the darkness of their sleeping chamber.  Paul's eyes

snap open and he sees Chani looking down at him (the

last image of the future in the desert).

In the hollow of a huge dune, Paul stops with Chani.

They share a look into each other's eyes.  Paul

turns towards the Fedaykin and nods.  They move in

quickly to tie and wrap Paul in Fremen rope.  They

move back and wait quietly.  Chani moves in very

close to Paul.  She holds a glass vial of the blue

water of life.

She pours the blue liquid into Paul's mouth.  Slow

move into Paul's face as:

Fade to black then dissolves to dark blue fluid.  A

blue drop falls into the blue fluid - a huge low

thud - then quiet.

Cut to Paul screaming horribly in the desert.

Alia walks forward in the very dark room.  Blood

rushes from her nose.  She forces herself to walk to

Jessica's bed.  She finds that Jessica's nose is

bleeding also.  Jessica wakes in pain.  They stare

at each other in the darkness.

Cut to quiet black - dissolve again to blue -

another drop - low thud - quietness - fade to black.

The Emperor's space ship soars towards us.

The Reverend Mother Helen Mohiam is on the floor,

bleeding from the nose and weak from pain.  The

Emperor looks on in horror.

Suddenly screaming towards us is white rings, stars

and a huge Guild Navigator.

Cut to Paul's eyes - tightly closed, oozing fresh

blood.

SCREAMING SOUND.  Paul's mouth opens and a giant

wind is stirred on the desert.

Navigator chewing giant eye and spewing blood and

light and sounds.  Paul's mouth double exposes over

Navigator and eye.  The sound from Paul's mouth

destroys the Navigator and opens the Alam.

Navigator bursts into a huge light ring and we

quickly travel through ring after ring and masses of

liquid stars.  The light increases until it is

blinding and then in the light...

A golden flower blossoms and glows brilliantly -

suddenly the powerful sound of an approaching worm.

Chani and the Fedaykin freeze and watch in horror as

seven giant worms converge on them.  The worms break

the desert surface and rise, towering over them.

The worms hover and wait.

Chani looks to the Fedaykin, then they look at Paul

who lies motionless.  She cuts the rope bonds with

her crysknife.  Her fingers tremble as does the

whole of the desert.

Paul's eyes snap open.  He sits up slowly.  Chani

stares at him in awe.

A huge wave crashes and Paul sees the image of his

father.  Paul slowly gets to his knees, then stands.

Giant echoes of this phrase reverberate across the

vast desert.  The worms bend back into the sand and

leave with thundering power.

MUSIC FULL.

The Rock Ledge of Sietch Tabr is filled with

Fedaykin and monks; Chani, Jessica, Gurney and

Stilgar stand together near the back.  Paul moves

out on the Rock Ledge overlooking the Hall of Rites

which is crowded with Fremen warriors who chant

"Maud'Dib" along with the powerful sounds of the

WIND ORGAN and FREMEN war DRUMS.

Paul raises his open hand.  SILENCE.  Only the organ

continues with a soft low NOTE.  The Fremen wait.

A quiet, haunting MOAN of recognition of a master

rises from the Fremen.

A thunderous ROAR arises.  War DRUMS pound.  The

ORGAN blows hurricaine of power through the sietch.

Fremen carrying weapons begin moving out in long

lines from the Hall as the war DRUMS pound.

In one `thopter sits the Baron Harkonnen.  He is

flown down to the Emperor's ship.

The WIND is howling and is starting to blow the

sand.  Dark sand clouds form in the distance.

Another sietch door opens and hundreds and thousands

more Fremen pour out.

Paul, Stilgar and Gurney watch the Emperor's

enormous ship on the Arrakeen landing field below.

Thousands of Fremen are running, planting thumpers

as they go.

Stilgar and Gurney laugh.

Paul smiles.

Looking down over the huge desert it looks like a

living sea of wormsign.  Everywhere ripples appear

and worms are surfacing.

Thousands of Fremen are running, positioning

themselves to mount and ride.

Dust clouds grow faster and the speed of the WIND

increases.  Sand particles hit at a rock outcropping

and up close they sound like giant warrior drummers

pounding before battle.

Suddenly above come hundreds of SCREAMING space

ships zooming down across the desert floor and

towards the landing field.

The storm is howling now.  Sand blasts against rock

and rips pieces away.

The Baron is brought in.  Distant warning SIGNALS

begin.  The Baron is fighting to contain his fear

because RABBAN'S HEAD SITS ALL BLOODY ON THE FLOOR

in front of him.  Finally the Emperor speaks.

Alia is brought in by the Sardaukar soldiers.  She

is smiling.

Suddenly the Reverend Mother looks horrified and

grabs her throat.

The Reverend Mother slumps.  The Baron's mouth flies

open.  The Emperor's face goes pale, his lips

tremble.

He turns quickly and looks at the two Guild agents

present in the room.  They stare at him icily.  Alia

is smiles happily.

Paul smiles.

Gurney and Stilgar don't understand.  Suddenly

enormous dust clouds and LIGHTNING sweep up over the

Shield Wall.

Gurney gives a hand signal and...

...TWENTY EXPLOSIONS of hydrogen bomb intensity go

off in a row, cutting a huge gorge through the width

of the massive Shield Wall.  As the EXPLOSIONS go

off, a WIND howls, destroying much of Arrakeen and

covering the rest with tons of sand.  Sand rips at

the Palace and the Emperor's ship.

Alia smiles as they HEAR the tremendous roaring,

atomic screams of the explosions.  The Emperor's

ship's warning SIGNALS are now close and loud.

A Sardaukar rushes in.

They all leave the room, including the Sardaukars.

The Baron floats down to her.  Alia turns to him --

still smiling.  With a flash of her hand she reaches

out and swipes at the Baron's face.  He CRIES OUT in

pain.  She pulls his suspensor plugs and pushes him

back, then slowly shows him the tiny needle she

holds in her hand.  He spins crazily as he screams

from the poison.

Worms, each with hundreds of Fremen on them, come

slithering through the newly-formed canyon in the

Shield Wall.

Paul rides the lead worm with Gurney and Stilgar by

his side.  The storm is howling and blowing with

horrifying intensity.

The Emperor and his Sardaukar officers in a darkened

room where they are horrified to see on the screens

the hundreds of worms which are coming into the

Arrakeen valley.  All their faces show fear.

INT. EMPEROR'S SPACE SHIP - GREEN THRONE ROOM - DAY

Suddenly the wall behind Alia and the spinning Baron

is completely blown away by a BLAST.

The Baron floats and spins out into the storm.

As the worms enter the Arrakeen basin they meet the

Sardaukar.  The Sardaukar don't have a chance -- the

worms suck them up by the hundreds.  The Fremen on

the worm's backs fire weapons, killing the few

Sardaukar the worms leave behind.

The space ships which were recently airborne are now

crashing because of the storm.

The Baron floats and spins high in the dust clouds

of the storm over the Arrakeen Valley.

The worm, that Paul, Gurney and Stilgar are riding,

suddenly rears up.  Its mouth opens.  The Baron

appears as a tiny spinning shape.  He flies directly

into the mouth of this collosal worm and is

devoured.

A thousand Fremen battle Sardaukar outside the

Emperor's tent.  They soon overpower them and rush

into the giant steel structure.

The entire airfield is now filled with wild worms,

Fremen, and dead or dying Sardaukar.

Alia moves dreamily among the dying Sardaukar.

Paul enters the Palace hall and the first thing he

sees is the giant bull's head.  The horns have been

blown off and the Atreides banner has been stuffed

and wired into the mouth.

A WIND moans through the Palace.

Paul turns.  Gurney and several guards bring in the

Emperor, Irulan, the Reverend Mother, Sardaukar

generals, Guildsmen, Feyd and Thufir.  The Fedaykin

and Fremen troops line the walls.

Paul's eyes meet Feyd's -- Feyd gives him an evil

smile.

Paul turns and looks at the Emperor, who stares back

defiantly.  Paul moves his gaze to Irulan, who

lowers her eyes.  He then sees his old teacher,

Thufir Hawat, whose tired eyes wander helplessly.

The Emperor turns nervously to Feyd, who passes a

golden dagger to Thufir.

Thufir approaches Paul, concealing the knife.  They

come face to face.  The Emperor seems strangely

tense at this moment.  Paul notices this.  He looks

Thufir over.

He turns his back on him.

Thufir's eyes grow sad and wide.

Thufir's hand rises, as Jessica gasps, but the old

Mentat pulls his heart plug out with a quick tearing

motion.  Paul turns and catches him as he sags.

His head lolls back and he looks up to Paul

urgently.

His breath escapes him and he is dead.

The guards do as they are instructed.

Paul smiles as we move closer and closer to him.

Suddenly we are in the Heighliner control room, near

the floor in the chemical spills.  We move up into

the orange gas.  THUNDERING begins to shake the

Heighliner.

We move into very thick gas and there is a ROARING.

Suddenly Paul sees the Third Stage Navigator.

The Guild Navigator's mouth stretches back in a

horrible MOAN.  The moan becomes more pained and

grows louder and louder.

The Guildsmen in the room are MOANING and SCREAMING

and swarming out towards the doorway -- the Fremen

stop them.  The Emperor and all are amazed and

frightened.  There is a long hush.  The old Reverend

Mother then turns and glares at Paul.

The old woman is shot backwards by the power of his

shout.  Her breath is knocked out of her.

A Fedaykin stand forward and recites from the

prophecy.

Feyd hears this and is angered.

Feyd takes up the Emperor's blade with a smile.

Paul takes out his crysknife.  They begin to circle

each other.

Paul smiles, circling still.  Suddenly, Feyd leaps,

his blade jabbing savagely outward, but Paul easily

evades it, moving away.  They begin to circle again.

He makes another pass at Paul that comes dangerously

close, but again, Paul is away, a frozen smile on

his face.

Feyd smiles.  He lashes out biting Paul's hand.

Feyd LAUGHS in triumph.

Feyd leaps forward jabbing, his right hip also

forward.  Yet Paul, although a little slowly, again

reels away.  Again, Feyd thrusts.

This time Paul jabs with his crysknife, but Feyd

moves away effortlessly.  Feyd counters and kicks

Paul to the ground.

Paul is up instantly and he circles with Feyd.

Paul jabs out, his crysknife slashing.  Feyd grabs

his arm, and Paul his, the two men locked in a

straining clinch.  Feyd presses his right hip closer

and closer to Paul's body.  Paul strains to keep it

away.  Suddenly, the gom jabbar flips out of Feyd's

girdle, but on the left side, and he lunges

powerfully with it at Paul, who just barely misses

taking it in his skin.  He throws Feyd back, but not

before Feyd's feet strike out, sending Paul to the

floor.  Feyd leaps onto him.

Suddenly, Paul, with lightning swiftness, pushes

Feyd up and over.  He is on top of him in a flash.

Paul's crysknife flashes up, thrusting upward

through Feyd's jaw.  Feyd's mouth opens as the knife

continues up through his tongue and through to his

brain.  Feyd's eyes go wild, then glaze over as he

jerks dead on the floor.  Paul slowly gets to his

feet, breathing heavily.  Anger still seething in

him, Paul issues a SOUND -- a loud, horrible,

powerful sound, and Feyd's internal organs rupture

and the stone floor under him cracks open.  The

Fedaykin smile.

Everyone stares in disbelief.  Paul looks to the

Emperor.

The Emperor is still.  Paul moves to Chani.

Paul turns back to the others.

Jessica turns to Chani and whispers to her.

Alia enters with two monks.  She signals and one of

them places a cloak over Paul's shoulders.

Everyone in the room stares at him soundlessly.

There are three powerful drum hits.

Paul opens his mouth and issues an ever increasing

wind.  Lightning and thunder begin.  Clouds begin to

form over the Palace.  In the half-light of dusk,

thousands of Fremen watch the sky.  Giant golden

lights are illuminated and their rays shoot far into

the sky illuminating the growing clouds.  Five

tremendous bolts of lightning suddenly unleash a

downpour of RAIN ON ARRAKIS.  The Fremen stand

awestruck as they are drenched with water falling

from the sky.

WE MOVE through Paul's glowing blue eyes into

beautiful blue luminescent light.

A gigantic WIND arises, and suddenly appearing in

the blue light is an ocean of light rolling like

gold glass off into infinite.  The blue becomes

darker and a golden lotus flower blooms in the

night.

