FADE IN:

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Darkness. The sound of battle cries and the clang of metal

upon metal. The forest lights up with huge sparks flying

from sword and ax as armored knights hack and swing at each

other. Mounted knights collide head-on at full gallop, their

armor made incandescent in the clash. Sparks eddy in their

wakes and float to the ground. The forest catches fire.

MAIN TITLES on the flames. Out of the sounds of ancient battle

grows music, heroic and barbaric, shot through with

melancholy.

Two crazed eyes reflect the fire. The eyes belong to a man

without age, at once ancient and boyish, female and male;

his eyes are pained from the burden of too much knowledge.

So close is he to the flames that a lock of his wild hair

sizzles alight. He slaps at the fire as if it were an annoying

insect. He wears a cloak of black trimmed with silver. It is

Merlin. The wizard weaves a path through the burning forest,

dodging the combatants, searching.

The forest around him weeps softly with the sounds that follow

slaughter. Patches of undergrowth are smoldering. Small flames

lick bark and branches.

Smoke floats through the trees and hovers over the bodies of

the dying and the dead.

A huge knight reins up beside Merlin on a lathered horse.

His armor is blood spattered. He is weary from battle. He

looks down at Merlin, his countenance fierce. The blade of

his sword glows with an unnatural aura.

EXT. RIVER, FOREST - DAY

Waiting on one bank of a small river that flows through the

forest is a warlord, the Duke of Cornwall. He is flanked by

his armored warriors. Lot of Lowthean prominent among them.

They are battle-weary and bloodied, but they look ready to

fight. Behind them is an army of lesser knights.

To the opposite bank come Uther and Merlin, a much smaller

force of knights, including Uryens, Lord of Gore, surrounding

them.

Uther and the Duke of Cornwall glare at each other in silence

across the river. Uther strains forward, burning with anger;

but Merlin restrains him.

Uther unsheathes his mighty sword, and brandishes it in the

air high over his head. The blade hums disquietingly and

leaves a lingering electric hue upon the air. The marvel

instills dread in all present.

The Duke of Cornwall looks around nervously as some of his

knights fall to their knees in awe.

Merlin urges Uther hard.

The two knights glare at each other, rage contending with

anger.

The enemies lock eyes and Merlin watches anxiously.

All men from both sides break out in wild cheers.

But Merlin is nowhere in sight.

INT. TINTAGEL CASTLE - HALL - NIGHT

Drums and wailing flutes fill the banquet hall with a lusty

rhythm. Armored warriors watch a lone woman dancing. She is

very beautiful, both sensuous and innocent.

Uther sits at the long table beside the Duke of Cornwall

with the barons and dukes of the land, and the lesser knights.

The table is stained with wine and littered with bones and

half-eaten fruit.

Uther's eyes burn with lust as he watches the dancer.

The Duke rises and goes to his wife, be-striding the center

of the hall and Igrayne weaves circles of dance around him.

He gloats with pride.

The words escape his lips:

Lot spins to face him.

Uther is not one for politics, and Lot's words sail past

him. The King lusts for Igrayne.

A bell is struck not far away. The music ceases and the hall

falls silent. The great door creaks open, revealing the dawn

light, and a monk steps into the hall and waits by it. Muffled

by corridors of stone, a choir of monks can now be heard

singing the high, ecstatic harmonies of the Te Deum. Those

who have fallen asleep at the table are roused, those drunk,

helped up.

INT. PASSAGEWAY, TINTAGEL CASTLE - DAWN

The monk leads the party down the hallway of the castle.

Thin shafts of dawnlight filter through archers' slits in

the thick walls onto stone floors. Otherwise, it is dark.

Each person, lady and knight, proceeds alone, head bent,

some crossing themselves.

Uther is among them. He stops in a dark alcove, breathing

heavily, waiting.

As the lovely Igrayne drifts past him, he pulls her out of

sight of the others.

In a shaft of pale light Uther clasps Igrayne to his

breastplate, his iron arm wrapped around her frail body. So

violent is his embrace that she cannot breathe, her mouth is

wide with fear, and her feet do not touch the ground; an

impaled butterfly.

His face is close to hers, looking as though he would devour

her tender whiteness with his kiss. She doesn't answer; she

can't. Even Uther understands this and lets her go.

Her gown and her fragile skin torn on the spikes of his armor,

Igrayne backs away and joins the procession.

Uther trembles with unreleased passion.

INT. PASSAGEWAY OUTSIDE CHAPEL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - DAWN

Igrayne enters the candlelit chapel from which issues the

chant, calling the castle to worship. She rushes to her

husband's side, kneeling next to him and whispering. The

Duke of Cornwall looks back at Uther, hatred in his eyes.

EXT. WAR CAMP - BEFORE TINTAGEL CASTLE - DAY

Uther is in a towering rage. Sword drawn, he stalks among

the biers of fallen knights. Squires and clerics keep a

healthy distance. The sky is lowering, pregnant with rolling

thunder. Beyond his encampment, high on a cliff rising out

of the sea stands the impregnable Tintagel Castle, seat of

the Duke of Cornwall, now under siege.

Just then a knight rides up and dismounts. It is Ulfius, a

lieutenant.

But he cannot finish. He is taken aback by the sudden

appearance of a hideous hag who approaches, rattling a

beggar's pan.

The figure straightens, the filthy rags become a flowing

cape, and the hair is swept back by the wind, andoit is

Merlin, laughing.

Ulfius edges away.

The Duke of Cornwall under siege. All this for lust. Selfish

lust.

Uther grabs Merlin.

Merlin frowns pensively, his gaze searching strange distances

and wandering; then focusing, blazing straight at Uther.

Uther kneels and draws his sword and holds it up by the blade,

a cross.

Merlin looks down sorrowfully at the kneeling King.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, TINTAGEL CASTLE - EVENING

The Duke of Cornwall watches a force of armored knights riding

forth from Uther's war camp, with banners flying. It passes

beneath the castle and on toward a distant cliff.

His eyes are as cold and as pale as ice.

EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - TWILIGHT

Uther and his knights, and Merlin on a mule, ride to the

high promontory and dismount. Here, overlooking the sea, is

a circle of ancient stones, carved with strange runes and

hieroglyphics, and as the wind moves through them it moans

and sighs.

The knights watch as Merlin and Uther, leading his horse,

walk toward the stones. Merlin strides into the circle,

turning to look at Uther, who hesitates.

Uther starts to make the sign of the cross, but Merlin halts

him with a gesture. Uther's hand drops, and he enters the

circle with his horse.

Merlin and Uther look out across the sea, to Tintagel Castle

high upon the cliff.

Merlin solemnly raises his arms toward that distant castle,

and chants in an ancient language, the sounds of which he

marries to the roaring and whining of the wind. The wind

becomes stronger, and Merlin's incantations become more

intense, and the wind in turn becomes wilder still. Until

Merlin is charged with a fierce, nonhuman power, as the wind

buffets his slight frame.

And then, for all to understand:

EXT. VISTA FROM THE CLIFF - TINTAGLE CASTLE - TWILIGHT

From the horizon a front of fog advances toward the castle

to envelop it, and continues across the gulf to the circle

of stones.

EXT. GATE, TINTAGLE CASTLE - TWILIGHT

The portal opens and a small force of armored men, led by

the Duke of Cornwall, exits. A fog is thickening all around

them.

EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - TWILIGHT

The advancing front envelops Merlin and Uther, eddying around

the stones.  All else is obliterated.

The King does.

Uther spurs straight for the edge of the cliff, then reins

in his horse abruptly.

Merlin rages, crazed.

He gives the horse a stinging blow with his staff.

The horse and Uther charge forward into a gallop and stepping

off where the hidden edge of the cliff would be, hoofbeats

ceasing and the horse dropping for the blink of an eye, they

gallop across the fog.

EXT. MERLIN'S FOG

Galloping on no visible terrain, Uther and his horse advance

through the restless fog, and as they recede rider and animal

become a wavering, changeable form within the cloud.

EXT. GATE, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

Horse and rider pull up at the gate.

If it was not for the electric blue hue burning in the eyes

of the man entering the castle, the same magic hue that

Excalibur left upon the air when wielded, the resemblance to

the Duke if Cornwall would be perfect.

After a moment the portal opens.

INT. INNER GATE, INTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

He passes into an inner court, the portal closing behind.

Armed men emerge cautiously. Thinking that it is their Duke

they help him dismount.

An inner gate opens and the 'Duke' goes through it.

EXT. UTHER'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

The real Duke and his men ride through the fogbound camp,

cutting the ropes of the tents, stabbing the men trapped

beneath the canvas. When a frightened crow flies squawking

into the face of the Duke's horse, which rears. He is unhorsed

and falls, and impales himself on a tent stake.

Dying, the true Lord of Tintagel Castle rises and staggers

forward, blood pumping from him.

INT. CHAMBER, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

A little girl of four awakens from a nightmare, a small lone

figure in her canopied bed. Her eyes are ice, like her

father's.

Igrayne is soon at her side, lifting the child from the bed,

holding her tight.

INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

The 'Duke' enters. The room is empty, but the door to

Morgana's room is open.

INT. MORGANA'S CHAMBER - NIGHT

The 'Duke' stands in the doorway. Igrayne herself is

surprised.

Igrayne kisses Morgana, tucks her in and returns to her own

room, closing the door. The child doesn't know whether to

believe the truth of the dream or the waking truth.

INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER - NIGHT

In full armor, the 'Duke' bears down on the naked Igrayne on

her marriage bed. She stares at him, wondering. But his eyes

are closed, and finally he carries her in his wild passion,

her white limbs tangling around the lustre of his armor.

EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - NIGHT

And Merlin is jolted awake from deep within himself, coming

out of a trance.

He lifts himself up on his staff. He stands in the midst of

the ancient stones, bristling with excitement. Uther's mighty

knights are asleep, a deep unnatural sleep, huddled together

and surrounded by their horses. And then Merlin swoons,

collapsing to the ground.

INT. HALL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - DAWN

His lieutenants deposit the Duke of Cornwall's bloodless

body upon the long table. His eyes are wide open, icy and

cunning even in death. The ladies of the castle support and

comfort the grief-stricken Igrayne as she approaches the

body of her husband. Morgana hangs onto her mother's gown.

Pale with grief, Igrayne stares at her dead husband in

silence.

Then her hand drifts to her stomach. When she talks again,

undone and resolved, it is to all and herself:

Morgana shows no distress. She runs her baby hands across

her father's face and closes his eyes. The intensity that

was frozen in them is now added to her own pale and cunning

eyes.

EXT. CLIFF ABOVE THE SEA - DAY

Merlin has been propped up against one of the stones. He is

in a deep trance and Uther is attempting to shake him awake.

Merlin's eyes open but he sees nothing, and only a puzzling

squeal issues from him.

INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER, TINTAGEL CASTLE- EVENING

Morgana watches from a corner. The ladies of the castle

surround Igrayne who is giving birth.

Noisy crows alight on the windowsill. Only Morgana notices.

INT. PASSAGEWAY, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

Uther strides to Igrayne's bedchamber, his warrior knights

following. He is dirty and his iron dress is blood-spattered.

INT. IGRAYNE'S BEDCHAMBER, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

At his approach and entrance the ladies shrink back, and

Morgana edges closer to her mother, and seats herself on the

bed beside her. Ingrain holds her newborn baby in her arms,

the blood of birth still wet upon it.

The ladies slip past him to the door, and he goes up to

Igrayne.

Terrified of him, Igrayne faces him the best she can.

Uther waves away her words but does sit down on the bed,

exhausted. He notices Morgana, who stares at him.

Igrayne draws the child to her and kisses her cheek.

The child leaves silently, hatred in her eyes.

He grasps the newborn baby with his iron hand, and pulls it

to himself. He looks upon it with wonder, with a gentleness

that is unexpected.

He can't bring himself to say his name. She hesitates on the

edge of tears, worried for the infant lying in its iron

cradle.

Uther draws a dagger. He lifts it.

But he uses it before Igrayne can move. He severs the leather

thongs that bind the iron breastplate to his chest. He casts

it to the floor. His chest is smooth and milk-white in

striking contrast to his creased, weathered face. And beaming,

he holds the baby to it.

Igrayne's hatred for the man is at the very edge of becoming

love. The baby starts to cry.

And his free hand opens her shift, and he holds a swollen

breast in his gloved hand, squeezing gently. Milk bubbles

from it and he thrusts the baby's mouth onto it.

Igrayne weeps and Uther watches proudly as the baby suckles.

Merlin advances from the window, his cape the same iridescent

green-black as the feathers of the crows that were perched

by the window.

Uther avoids looking at him.

Uther is shaken to his roots. Igrayne watches, trying to

understand.

Igrayne suddenly understands. She glares at Uther.

Uther is caught, and turns to Merlin who is harsh and

unswaying.

Uther wrenches the baby from it's mother's breast and hands

him to Merlin.

With the bawling baby under his cape, Merlin exits. Igrayne

pulls herself out of the bed, weak, her legs giving under

her. She starts after Merlin.

Uther stops her with his bulk and she claws savagely at his

chest to get past him. He weeps as he folds his arms around

her.

INT. PASSAGEWAY, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

As Merlin walks through the castle, the baby crying in his

arms, the knights and ladies step back, afraid to intervene

in royal matters.

INT. HALL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT.

Merlin comes across the empty banquet hall, cooing to the

baby, strangely pacifying him. Morgana steps out of the

shadows in his path, and Merlin stops at the sight of the

little girl, her pale eyes glaring at him.

She speaks haltingly and clearly while far-off Igrayne cries

out her distress.

Staring at her, Merlin shudders and without answering he

continues away, faster now, and into an unlit passageway,

disappearing from sight a bit sooner than an ordinary mortal

would have.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

The forest is dark and shiny with rain. An unseen battle

rages.

The first combatant in sight is Uther, who swings the mighty

Excalibur, cutting an attacker in half at the waist. Uther

and a small force of knights, Ulfius among them, are

retreating through the slippery wet forest, completely

outnumbered.

Lord Lot of Lowthean and Lord Uryens of Gore are the leaders

of the attack.

Ulfius and his men stand their ground so the King may escape

the onslaught. They are hacked down.

Uther flees alone, severing the limbs of any man and tree

that stands in his way.

EXT. STONE IN THE FOREST - DAY

Uther has gained on his pursuers. He comes to a small clearing

where the spine of a buried boulder rises through the forest

floor. He stops upon it, breathing hard, dripping blood. He

rages aloud, but his throat is raw and cracked and only a

whisper comes out.

He hears his pursuers closing in.

He holds it by the hilt with both hands, the blade pointing

to the ground of stone. He flexes his knees. He lifts up his

hands above his head. And with all the strength that rage

and pain can muster, and more, he drives the blade of

Excalibur into the stone, nearly to the hilt. His mouth widens

in an awful silent scream, and then the foam of saliva pink

with blood issues from deep within him, so violent was his

effort.

As the sword cuts into the rock, the earth shudders.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

The forest quakes. The knights searching for Uther halt in

fear.

EXT. FIELDS, WOODS - DAY

And far away, a caped figure is crossing a field toward a

wood, when the earth shakes, stirring animals and birds. The

man turns. He is Merlin, the two day-old baby peeking from

his cape. Merlin is amazed at the phenomenon, he puts his

ear to a rock protruding from the earth.

And tears welling, and giggling at the same time, he whisks

away into the woods.

EXT. STONE IN THE FOREST - DAY

Uther staggers away, colliding with trees, staggering,

crashing to the ground. Until the only life left in him is

the coursing of his blood, flowing from his gaping mouth

onto the leaves on the forest floor.

The enemy knights advance through the trees. They prod at

the fallen leviathan, they roll him over to get at his

scabbard. Only then do they see the sword in the stone, and

they stop, amazed and afraid. Their captains appear. Uryens

sees what they are staring at, and races to the sword and

attempts to pull it out.

He strains with all his might, but it is immovable.

He shoves Uryens aside, but he can't loosen the sword either,

and he rages with frustration.

LEGEND APPEARS:

"Fifteen years passed and the land was without a king."

FADE IN:

EXT. FIELDS - DAY

Peasants spill over the crest of a hill. They are fleeing a

force of armored knights, their plumed helmets forged in the

semblance of predatory animals. The knights thunder past the

peasants, trampling the ripening crops. Sir Uryens is their

leader, his hard face indifferent to the havoc he leaves in

his wake.

The peasants watch in mute anger.

EXT. FARMYARD - EVENING

Sir Lot leading another group of mounted knights comes

galloping into a small hamlet, panicked chickens and pigs

scattering at their approach. The farmers run for their lives

as the steel men dismount, leading their horses to water and

hay, and searching for vittles. A knight spots a woman who

stands frozen with fear, and he drags her into the barn as

her crying child watches.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - NIGHT - MOONLIGHT

A farmhouse is burning nearby, and three mounted figures

make their way along a trail at a walking pace - an old knight

in leather and mail, a young knight proud in gleaming new

armor; and on a farm horse, a squire with baggage and jousting

lance. The old knight, Sir Ector, is troubled by what he

sees.

Just then, ten crazed peasants emerge from the darkness,

hurling stones and armed with clubs and pronged sticks. They

surround the three riders. Sir Ector wheels around and slices

the air with his sword to ward off the ambushers.

The peasants edge closer, working up the nerve to rush the

horsemen. The sound of thundering hooves cuts through the

clamor.

A cavalcade of riders, armor gleaming in the moonlight,

advances across the fields at a gallop. Immediately the

peasants scatter. The old knight is on the verge of tears.

EXT. SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - SUNRISE

Red with the first light of day, Excalibur rests in the stone

as King Uther left it. The field is itched with tents, each

flying its heraldic banner. Knights and squires are

everywhere, preparing horses and armor for the joust. A burly

man in religious robes harangues the crowd, vying for

attention.

The Bishop goes among the tents, through the teeming throng,

solemnly casting holy water upon man and horse, armor and

banner. The knights kneel at the Bishop's transit, but

ceremony does not lift the air of grimness that lies over

the event.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND, SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

Their armor ablaze with sunlight, two mounted knights thunder

toward each other at full gallop, lowering their long jousting

lances. As they meet, the lance of each knight is deflected

by the shield of the other. A gasp goes through the crowd,

and the two knights charge past each other. They wheel around

at the end of the jousting ground and go at each other again

from the other direction. Again lances strike, and this time

one of the men is hit in the chest and violently unhorsed.

The crowd cheers.

EXT. THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

The victor, Leondegrance, rides up to the stone and dismounts.

Each great knight with his coterie of lesser knights comes

to watch. A charge of expectation is in the air, although

most knights are glowering with envy.

Leondegrance of Camelyarde ascends to the sword, grabs it by

the hilt, and begins to tug with all his might. Excalibur is

immovable. The moment of tension passes. Leondegrance staggers

toward his waiting squires, who lead him away. All the others

return to the battle sport.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - DAY

At the edge of the jousting ground Sir Ector's son Sir Kay

is getting ready for a bout. His brother Arthur is buckling

the new armor while his father fusses about him, making small

adjustments when he notices that Kay's scabbard is empty. He

turns to Arthur and grab's him by the ear.

The fifteen year-old boy blushes.

The boy dashes off as Sir Ector shakes his head, not without

affection beneath the sternness.

EXT. TENTS - DAY

Arthur runs in search of their tent. He finds it.

INT. TENT - DAY

He enters. The saddle trunk has been emptied on the floor,

equipment is scattered all over. Arthur is shocked,

nonetheless he rummages madly. Finally he stops, on the verge

of tears.

EXT. TENTS - DAY

He comes out, utterly defeated, and frantic. He stops by two

knights who are arguing angrily; and one of them has left

his sword in the grass.

Arthur looks at it. He is tempted to steal it, but he can't.

Head down, he wanders off.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - DAY

Sir Ector and Sir Kay are waiting.

EXT. THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

Arthur stops at the edge of the dark forest, totally dejected,

when he sees the sword in the stone. He walks up to it, his

face lighting up, brimming with innocence. He is alone, as

everyone has returned to the jousting ground.

He smiles, forgetting his troubles, a boy again living in a

fairy tale. He grasps the sword by the hilt and it comes

away easily from its stone lock.

Not expecting it to, he nearly falls. He stares at it,

terribly excited and surprised: he tucks it under his arm

and rushes back.

EXT. TENTS - DAY

He bumps into Kay.

Kay takes it. He cannot believe what he's holding in his

hands. He starts to talk but he is so agitated he can only

stutter.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - DAY

Kay, with Arthur in tow, rushes to Sir Ector and shows him

the sword; he trembles with excitement.

Sir Ector is dumbstruck.

Ector looks at his son amazed, wanting to believe but not

able to.

With Excalibur in hand Ector of Morven heads for the stone,

Kay following, and Arthur too, the boy flushed with excitement

but a little worried, not understanding what is happening.

The exchange between Sir Ector and Sir Kay has been overheard.

Some have seen the sword in Sir Ector's hand. Rumor spreads

like wildfire.

EXT. THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

As Sir Ector ascends the stone, from all parts of the jousting

ground knights and squires, the Bishop and the clerics, and

peasants too, press around.

Ector lowers the blade into the tight cleft and Excalibur

sinks to its original position.

Sir Kay grabs the hilt and pulls without conviction, and the

sword doesn't give. Eyes downcast, he lets go.

He starts to kneel but Ector pulls him up.

Arthur is about to grasp the hilt when Uryens and Lot, and

other nobles, Leondegrance of Camelyarde, and Sir Caradoc

and Sir Turquine among the younger, stride up.

Uryens, Lot, Leondegrance, Caradoc, Turquine - each in turn

grapples with the sword, only to be defeated by its

immobility. The crowd around the stone is thickening with

common folk.

The demand is echoed by peasants and serfs. The great knights

remain silent and bitter in their defeat. Sir Ector pushes

Arthur to the sword.

The boy hesitates shyly, and then takes the hilt of Excalibur

and pulls out the sword with a great sweep.

The throng is stunned. Silence falls. Some kneel, following

the example of Sir Ector and Sir Kay, of the Bishop and

Leondegrance. The other nobles stay back, confused, afraid,

angered.

Arthur stands there, little more than a boy, his cheeks

flushed, his soft hair ruffled by the wind, his eyes shining

with exultation, awe, and fear. Then, as if gaining confidence

from the sword itself, he turns it in arcs above his head.

The commoners and some of the knights react with roaring

enthusiasm. The others draw closer to Uryens and Lot and

their supporters, closing ranks around them.

Sir Ector rises, tears streaming down his cheeks.

This is quite a shock to the boy king, and to the onlookers.

Merlin's name is on the lips of all those close by.

From out of the forest strides Merlin, dramatic, cape flowing,

eyes crazed as ever, laughing at his own entrance. A crow is

perched on his shoulder, and it squawks loudly. Annoyed with

it, Merlin swooshes it away.

Merlin interrupts himself when his eyes fall on the boy, who

is taking in his performance raptly, half awestruck, half

amused.

The suspicion and confusion and envy of the lords erupts.

The crowd of serfs and peasants cheer wildly, and their long

suppressed anger against the nobles comes to the fore. They

dare to press up against them, fists hammering on their

shields as the chant Arthur King over and over. Dark and

scowling, full of rebellion, all the lords except Leondegrance

begin to withdraw their iron men surrounding them.

EXT. CHAPEL, JOUSTING GROUND - DAY

Bells toll the good news. People stream by to see the new

king and join the celebration.

EXT. SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

Uryens and Lot, and Caradoc, Turquine, and the other lords

have mounted, and are moving out, when from the rear guard a

bowman in Lot's service draws upon the unarmored figure of

Arthur across the cheering crowd. The bowman lets the arrow

fly.

It flies over the heads of the crowd, unseen.

Except by Merlin at Arthur's side. He extends his arms halfway

up, his fists clenched tightly as if drawing urgently on the

power within himself. The sound of wings is heard as he flaps

his arms.

The arrow flies toward Arthur.

Arthur sees the arrow coming right at him, when a swooping

crow plucks it out of the air.

Arthur watches the crow flapping its wings, climbing swiftly,

the arrow in its beak, disappearing over the forest. Only he

has noticed.

When he turns Merlin is no longer at his side; to the

puzzlement of all. And Arthur is all of a sudden terribly

alone and afraid, as people from all sides clamor for his

attention and guidance.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Arthur charges through the shadowy forest. He is in armor,

but it is only a light tunic of mail. Excalibur is sheathed

in a leather scabbard by his side. He is frantic and he calls

urgently.

His face shines with sweat, the horse is lathered. He

dismounts and continues on foot into denser, more tangled

undergrowth.

A huge eye opens in the foreground of what had appeared to

be shadow, bark and tufts of weeds is really Merlin's head.

His voice is thin as he is awakening from a deep, exhausted

sleep. Arthur finds him lying within the large gnarled roots

of a great tree. The boy kneels before Merlin and lifts his

hands and kisses them.

Arthur blurts it out:

Arthur helps Merlin up and the wizard stands unsteadily.

The forest groans and creaks, alive with murmurs and shrill

calls.

Silence. Arthur tries again.

Just as suddenly, he is his amused, ironic self again.

Arthur bows his head, confused and almost defeated. Merlin

steals a look at him, and puts his arm around the boy.

He enjoys being cryptic.

EXT. FOREST AND ELSEWHERE - DAY AND NIGHT

A deep cleft at the edge of the forest, where far below lava

boils with a phosphorescence that lights up a great cloud,

billowing upward.

Merlin points to the sky where roiling clouds appear to be

unfurling of immeasurable wings.

A terrific wave batters a coastline, spray shooting up, and

as the wave recedes it exposes dark rocks and deep crevices.

Merlin spins Arthur around, and they are transported into a

storm swept forest. Lightning strikes.

The trees shine with wetness, as a great wind tosses their

crowns, the branches groaning against each other.

Arthur is awestruck.

EXT. FOREST - DAY

Arthur and Merlin are back in the same spot, having in fact

never moved at all, but traveled on the spell of Merlin's

words alone.

Arthur's eyes shine with the brilliance of the vision.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CASTLE OF CAMELYARDE - NIGHT

Leondegrance, Lord of Camelyarde, is shocked by what he sees

in the distance. His daughter Guenevere, a beautiful girl of

sixteen, draws close to him, terrified. With his surviving

knights, Leondegrance is making his last stand. The walls

have been breached, parts of the castle are burning.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT

A bellowing dragon advances. Its eyes burn, its scales gleam

from light shining from within. It snorts fire from its

nostrils.

Uryens and Lot, Caradoc and Turquine, the great knights in

command of the siege of Leondegrance's castle, back away

speechless as the monster descends upon their unprepared war

camp. All around them, squires and lesser knights flee in

panic and confusion.

Only a dozen or so remain with their leaders. The group backs

up against the swampy moat that surrounds the castle, waiting

with swords drawn.

The dragon moves closer, and now it becomes apparent that it

is nothing more than a force of knights and footmen. Their

shields glinting in the moonlight are the dragon's scales,

torches its burning eyes. And the snorting flames from its

nostrils are only Merlin doing a fire-eater's trick.

The dragon form dissolves, and a banner rises bearing the

emblem of the Dragon, and under it, Arthur and Ector and Kay

lead a charge of twenty knights.

In Arthur's hands, Excalibur leaves an electric glow upon

the air.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CAMELYARDE CASTLE - NIGHT

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT

Arthur and his men charge into the enemy ranks. Lot's and

Uryens' people are pushed into the moat. Although the water

is only waist-deep, the fallen, weighed down by their armor,

drown. The horses of the attackers are brought down, Arthur's

among them. He pulls out from under it, limping. Bleeding

form wounds, cutting, slashing, thrusting, he falls back

from the havoc of the charge.

A small distance exists now between the foes, a brief respite.

Uryens and Lot, exhausted, bleeding, and fierce in their

rage:

Arthur and his men have been joined by Leondegrance and his

knights, few in number.

He rushes alone at the enemy, shouting at the top of his

lungs, Excalibur flashing over his head, prepared to die.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CAMELYARDE CASTLE - NIGHT

Guenevere watches...

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT

The old knight rushes after the boy, sword drawn, to defend

his flank, and the others follow, a battle cry issuing from

them that is terrifying in its fierceness.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS AND BATTLEFIELD BELOW - NIGHT

...and when she can't watch any longer, she buries her face

in her hands.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT

Arthur fights like a wounded lion at the center of the savage

melee of sword and shield, and once again the two sides fall

apart.

Uryens and Lot are standing in the moat among the bodies of

their men, are reduced to eleven knights, all wounded.

Arthur is flanked by twenty men at arms, most of them wounded,

and trembling now beyond exhaustion with blood lust. Arthur

steps forward alone, and addresses his opponents.

Arthur turns, searching for Merlin. He spots him watching

from a distance. They stare at each other, Merlin implacable,

Arthur's eyes pleading. It's obvious that Merlin isn't going

to help.

He unsheathes Excalibur and goes forward, kneeling before

Uryens and offering him the sword.

Arthur, kneeling, bows his head and Uryens steps up to him,

his features set. He accepts the sword. Lot watches, a mad

hope dancing in his eyes.

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CAMELYARDE CASTLE - NIGHT

Guenevere watches, frightened for Arthur, not daring to

breathe.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE CASTLE - NIGHT

Uryens stands towering above the boy. He smiles enigmatically.

He lifts Excalibur.

Merlin is attempting to push through the crowded ranks to

get to Arthur.

He's frantic and worried for once.

Uryens swiftly lowers the sword on Arthur's neck; with the

flat of the blade he gives Arthur the three strokes.

Arthur looks up.

Uryens is deeply moved.

Arthur rises and Uryens kneels and kisses his hands. Sir

Ector turns away to hide brimming tears. Merlin pushes through

finally, out of breath. Uryens embraces Leondegrance while

Lot and the other enemy knights kneel in turn and kiss

Arthur's hands.

EXT. WOOD BY CAMELYARDE CASTLE - DAY

The castle can be glimpsed through the trees. A clear spring

bubbles from the ground, and the sun splashes leaf, bird,

squirrel, and bee with golden light, and Arthur and Guenevere

too. Guenevere is serious and intent on her work.

With water from the spring, she is bathing a large cut on

his chest that has been stitched closed. Wounds on his arms,

and one on a calf also show evidence of her neat sewing.

She's just finishing, and she dabs his chest with a dry cloth.

He starts to get up.

Arthur shivers at the thought.

Arthur smiles at her, enjoying her jealousy, and it irritates

her a little.

She touches his lips with hers, her eyelids fluttering shut.

He stares at her young beauty, and draws her into a long,

slow kiss.

A shrill almost human squeal pierces the air not far away.

Arthur pulls away startled, half-rising. Guenevere giggles.

She puts her arms around him, drawing him close again,

speaking in a half-whisper.

They smile at each other, about to kiss. As they come closer:

INT. BANQUET HALL, CAMELYARDE CASTLE - EVENING

The soft beat of psaltery and the liquid flow of lute. A

serving platter bearing roast rabbit in rampant position is

carried across the hall. It is laid on the long raised table

before Arthur, who presides in the middle. He looks at it

suspiciously and blushes, remembering the afternoon; and it

looks back at him accusingly with its cherry eye.

Guenevere is dancing around her father, lovely, gliding,

sensual. She sees Arthur and the rabbit and laughs out-right.

He twists off a leg of the rabbit and sinks his teeth into

it to hide his embarrassment. Guenevere passes to another

partner, smiling at him, radiant. Arthur watches her, his

heart breaking. He is in love.

Merlin leans close.

Only then does he realize that Merlin has understood

everything. He is annoyed at being so transparent.

A shadow of doubt crosses Arthur's brow.

Guenevere approaches, smiling and coquettish. She slaps her

hands, and a servant sets down a tray of pastries before

Arthur.

She smiles at Arthur's embarrassment and confusion.

She takes a cake and bites into it.

Guenevere offers one to Arthur, and he hesitates, looking at

it.

Arthur bites into the cake, and Guenevere looks deep into

his eyes.

A LEGEND APPEARS:

"...but for years war kept Arthur from thoughts of marriage."

FADE IN:

EXT. OAK FOREST - DAY

War tents have been pitched beneath the majestic trees. Near

the banner of the Dragon a doe grazes. Arthur is older, in

battle-scarred plate armor, pacing and angry. He is watched

by his wounded and bruised knights--Kay, Uryens, Lot,

Leondegrance, Caradoc, and some new young faces among the

ranks. No one talks.

The harsh clank of its battle trappings announces the arrival

of a horse. All eyes watch it walk into the camp. A knight

is slouched in the saddle.

Arthur runs to meet the horse, followed by squires and some

of the knights.

He eases the rider to the ground, unlaces his helmet. It is

Sir Ector, and his hauberk is badly dented. Tears burn in

Arthur's eyes.

He pushes past the knights and goes to his horse. Kay steps

in front of him.

Arthur rises into the saddle and takes a jousting spear from

the rack.

The squires are silent.

Arthur gallops off in the direction Sir Ector came from. His

knights are afraid for him.

EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

His countenance grim, Arthur gallops along a trail bordering

a plowed field when in it a scarecrow moves. It starts to

run as stick-wielding farmers pursue it. It is Merlin. Arthur

turns off into the field, and at the sight of an armored

knight on a war horse, the farmers turn and flee. Merlin

stops to catch his breath.

Arthur's hand is clenched tight around Excalibur's hilt.

He offers his arm and Merlin hoists himself up behind the

King.

EXT. GORGE THROUGH THE HILLS - DAY

A waterfall cascades into a pool. The spray casts a rainbow.

Beneath it is a colorful confusion of flowers and budding

trees, a place dreamlike in its beauty.

Arthur, with Merlin behind, gallops along the edge of the

pool. The trail widens into a field of grass. Arthur reins

beside a pile of broken lances and twisted shields. Across

the field, pitched upon the trail is a war tent made of

diaphanous white silk, a sky blue banner above it. Merlin

slides off and Arthur continues.

From the tent, a knight with jousting lance rides forward to

meet him. His armor is so shiny it is a mirror. His eyes,

seen through the open visor, seem to laugh. His speech is

foreign, from across the sea. He is Lancelot of the Lake.

He crosses himself.

Arthur wheels away, trembling with anger, and gallops to his

edge of the field. He sees that Lancelot has already

positioned himself and is waiting, lance down.

Merlin watches, a spectator, as the two charge at each other.

They collide with great force, their spears shattering. Arthur

is jolted but stays in the saddle. Lancelot's jousting is

impeccable. Arthur draws Excalibur.

Pages come forward with new lances for Arthur and Lancelot.

Arthur grabs the spear from the page's hands, and circles

back to work the horse up into an all-out gallop. Lancelot

spurs forward to meet him. Arthur is neatly unhorsed. He

picks himself up from the ground in a rage, drawing Excalibur.

Lancelot on his horse weaves circles around him.

Arthur charges Lancelot, a raging bull, but cuts and slashes

only at the air as Lancelot stays clear of him.

He dismounts and draws his sword, and they clash. Shield and

sword and armor against shield and sword and armor. The

swordplay is furious, Arthur attacking, slashing, hacking,

Lancelot parrying effortlessly, elegantly defensive. Arthur

breaks the onslaught to catch his breath. Lancelot lifts his

visor. His eyes are calm, laughing.

Arthur goes forward attacking with terrible blows upon

Lancelot's shield, and Lancelot holds his ground, shield

high. And in its mirror-like metal Arthur can see his own

reflection, a face distorted by uncontrolled passion.

Arthur discards his own shield, grabs Excalibur with both

hands, and with a frightening shout that speaks of all his

rage, he swings a terrific blow upon the shield, cutting

through his own reflection and the metal. And Excalibur snaps

in two.

A blinding blue-green light explodes from the broken sword.

Lancelot, knocked back by the force of the blow, is stunned

by the blast and falls to the ground unconscious. Arthur

backs away, horrified, half of Excalibur in his hand.

Merlin approaches, pale, gripped by dread.

Arthur picks up the broken blade, utterly undone.

Merlin stands there, drawn, defeated, his hopes dead.

Despairing, he flings the two parts of Excalibur into the

pool. He kneels at the waters edge, and he cries.

Then Arthur sees something that startles him. Beneath the

surface, suspended in the blue-green water amid the dancing

weeds, he sees Excalibur, intact.

It is held by a maiden in flowing gown the color of water,

her long hair rippling across her face, obscuring it.

Arthur dips his hand under the water and grasps the hilt and

the moment he does the vision in the blue-green water fades.

He rises with Excalibur in hand, and Merlin speaks before

Arthur can ask the question.

And he laughs.

Just then Lancelot stirs. Arthur rushes to his side. He

loosens his helmet and removes it, uncovering damp curls.

The young knight's eyes open, and his laughing charm once

more animates his face.

He embraces Arthur, who is overwhelmed by his childlike

directness. The King helps him to his feet.

He thumps his breastplate.

Lancelot draws his sword, holding it by the blade, a crucifix.

They embrace, and Merlin watches.

EXT. ARTHUR'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

Converging from different directions parties of mounted

knights enter the war camp. Lancelot among them. They

dismount, battle-weary and burning with the excitement of

victory. They quench their huge thirst from buckets carried

by squires. They rip off hunks of meat from carcasses sizzling

on spits over a roaring fire. And they join the throng of

knights, where stories of deeds of arms of the day are

enthusiastically exchanged.

A great number of knights are packed tightly around King

Arthur, each man anxious to tell of his victories. One of

them has the King's attention.

Arthur sees Lancelot in the throng and moves toward him.

Merlin follows Arthur and is pushed and knocked around in

the crush of spikes and iron. The only unarmored man in the

crowd, he glares at the excited knights irritably.

Arthur turns toward Uryens.

Cheers greet each declaration.

Amidst the celebration, a fracas is heard. A knight pushing

forward to talk to Arthur has entered a shoving match with

those in front of him.

Merlin is brutally jostled. He draws a fistful of powder

from his cape and he tosses it into the air above him. He

raises his staff into the cloud, cracking it like a whip.

The tip of the staff catches fire, and the fire spreads

through the powder in the air, stunning all into silence.

Merlin shouts and snarls.

Merlin swings his burning staff into a wide arc. The knights

back away, amused at first, then a bit afraid.

The knights have fallen back. Merlin stalks past each man,

and Arthur too, holding the flaming tip of his staff before

each pair of eyes, and staring into them with his gimlet

gaze.

The knights have formed a circle. They realize this.

Awestruck, they whisper in astonishment, looking up at the

sky burning with stars. Merlin brims with pride as he waits

for Arthur to recognize his handiwork.

A cheer rises. Arthur strides into the ring of knights.

Another bout of cheers goes up, and Arthur stops before

Leondegrance, resting his hand on the old knight's shoulder.

Leondegrance's eyes fill with tears of joy. A roar of cheers.

Arthur draws the sword of power.

Lancelot is drawn in by the King's enthusiasm. He unsheathes

his sword and swoops it low in salute.

In quick succession all knights draw their swords, following

Lancelot's example.

Merlin struggles to put out the flame on his staff. He finally

does it by smothering it with earth. When he looks up again,

he sees the knights galloping off in all directions.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Terrified women, a screaming child, cowering men, old or

made old by the hard labor of the fields. Armored men are

ransacking a farm, looking for grain, and gold which they

find among the votive objects of a little house altar. A

woman is dragged away to be raped.

Through a window, a knight in shining armor is seen emerging

from the adjoining woods. The plunderers are all of a sudden

apprehensive, and fall silent. One of them grabs the crying

child and covers her mouth with his iron hand.

EXT. FARMYARD - DAY

The knight is Lancelot, in his mirror-like armor. He rides

into the cluster of houses and barns that make up the farm.

There are other armored men there, around a cart half-loaded

with loot. They smile nervously at Lancelot. The farmers are

blank with fear.

Lancelot stops in the middle of the yard. A knight among the

armored men comes forward.

And he also acknowledges with a nod the ashen-faced patriarch

of the community.

Lancelot spurs his horse on, and the knight sighs with relief.

But then he reins his horse to a stop. He has sensed

something. He turns his head, his hooded eyes on the knight

and his men, and they squirm inwardly.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

The child, her mouth covered by the armored hand.

EXT. FARMYARD - DAY

Lancelot, listening, watching.

INT. BARN - DAY

The woman, a blade flashing next to her eye.

EXT. FARMYARD - DAY

Lancelot, immobile. Behind him, the knight, his face shiny

with sweat. His minions inch forward, hands moving slowly

toward sword hilts.

Lancelot wheels his horse around.

With a shout the knight and his men draw their swords and

rush Lancelot. He reins in his horse, causing it to rear and

break their attack. He slides off, falling on his feet with

sword drawn, already fighting. In an extraordinary show of

sword play he cuts down six men.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

Hearing Lancelot storm in, the man holding the child hands

her to a woman and kneels before the altar, just as Lancelot

bursts into the room, sword high and already swooping down

on the man's neck. Lancelot brings the sword to a halt mid-

air, his fury held in check. The repent man is spared. The

woman kneels to kiss Lancelot's hand.

EXT. SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

The field is pitched with war tents and pavilions decked for

holiday. Nobles and knights flank the King and Guenevere, a

beautiful vision in white samite, a wreath of flowers around

her head. Lancelot leads a long file of prisoners to the

King. They fall to their knees, begging forgiveness; among

them is the man whom Lancelot had spared before the altar.

He rises and follows Arthur and Guenevere into the central

pavilion. Pages draw its curtains closed as they pass inside.

INT. PAVILION - DAY

Guenevere is surrounded by a group of ladies and maids who

fuss over her dress and her hair. They eye the great knight

and whisper about him, Guenevere laughing with them.

Arthur sits, excited and happy.

Lancelot sits, stiff and upright.

Guenevere overhears. She approaches and Lancelot jumps to

his feet.

Merlin leans close to Arthur.

He rises. Lancelot, who was about to sit again, straightens.

Arthur and Merlin exit, leaving Guenevere and Lancelot. She

looks at him, lively and amused, and he can't help smiling.

Lancelot blushes.

He can't look at her.

Guenevere smiles, moved by his blunt innocence.

He kneels, kisses her thigh, rises and leaves.

INT. CHAPEL - DAY

A chorus of children sings. The Bishop waits at the altar

with his friars and altar boys. Cornucopias overflowing with

vegetables and wildflowers adorn the church, which glows

with the light of a thousand candles. Sir Kay is satisfied.

He comes back up the petal-strewn aisle.

EXT. CHAPEL, SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - DAY

Arthur and Guenevere are ushered in by Kay. They are flanked

by Leondegrance and Sir Ector. Lancelot and Merlin follow,

leading the cortege of knights and ladies.

Merlin is incapable of entering the chapel, as if at the

threshold there is an unseen force that repels him.

Strangling a laugh he wrenches himself away. Just then Uryens

and a small party of knights rides up through the tents and

dismounts in front of the church. Uryens helps a lady off

her horse and joins the cortege on foot.

Merlin, who was slinking away through the throng of

bystanders, looks up. What he sees sends a chill through his

body.

At Uryens' side stands a young woman of sinister beauty,

with bewitching eyes of ice. Merlin just stares at her, and

she smiles back at him faintly.

Merlin laughs. Uryens shrugs and continues into the chapel

with Morgana. As she enters she glances back, and just then

Merlin steals a look, their eyes meet.

INT. CHAPEL - DAY

Uryens and Morgana take their places near the altar. Arthur

and Guenevere kneel before the Bishop, and Arthur takes her

hand. The clatter of armor mingles with the enthusiastic,

happy singing of the children, and seems to strengthen their

song.

EXT. SITE OF THE SWORD IN THE STONE - EVENING

The chorus carries across the field to the dark wall of trees

from which issues another chorus, of hoots and squawks and

howls. Merlin advances along the edge of the forest. He stops

by the stone that once held the sword, his eyes wild. He

forgets his inner torment when he sees a plant at the base

of the stone. He kneels beside it and plucks it. He admires

its strange flowers; he smells them.

Two feet appear at his side. He rises to be face to face

with Morgana. They look deep into each other. Then Merlin

breaks the silence.

Merlin smiles at last, and Morgana does, her eyes piercing,

cruel and lovely.

His gaze drifts toward the chapel.

INT. CHAPEL - EVENING

Arthur and Guenevere are radiant with joy, and Lancelot behind

them mirrors the ceremony of their joining in his armor; and

the sweet voices of the children fill the chapel as the Bishop

pours the wine into the chalice, and lifts it up before him,

blessing it.

He turns to the royal couple.

The chalice seems to burn with a mystical light; and as the

chorus soars:

A LEGEND APPEARS:

"And Arthur built his castle, Camelot. And one day, in the

far reaches of the Kingdom..."

FADE IN:

EXT. FOREST, STREAM - DAY

It is shadowy and dark; ancient trees creak, unseen animals

cry out. A rabbit hops into view and a boy leaps forward,

grabbing the animal by the ears before it can move. He--

Perceval--is a wild boy of seventeen, dressed in skins with

an endearing and childlike smile.

A din is heard to the forest, and it grows. Perceval glances

around, panicked. The sound is the rubbing of leather upon

leather, of metal on metal, for now a mounted figure in armor

hovers over the terrified boy.

He lets the rabbit go free. The threatening figure dismounts.

And Perceval, cartwheels backward, landing in the stream and

scooping a fish out.

He returns the fish to the water. The figure steps into a

pool of sunlight and a glorious halo streaks from the armor.

It is Lancelot.

Perceval is overcome with astonishment, and he kneels.

Lancelot laughs and pulls the boy to his feet.

Perceval is beside himself with enthusiasm.

Lancelot rolls his eyes, amused.

EXT. SPARSE FOREST - DAY

Lancelot is cantering and Perceval is running alongside,

shouting in gasps.

Lancelot shakes his head and spurs the horse into a gallop.

Perceval lengthens his stride, and keeps up! Lancelot reins

to a halt.

EXT. OUTSIDE CAMELOT, FOREST - DAY

Perceval cannot believe his eyes. As Lancelot and Kay talk

about him out of earshot, he sees things that he's never

seen before; and he gapes like the country bumpkin that he

is.

Dragon-like kites sweep low, maneuvered by children. In a

meadow among the trees, knights hone their skills with lance

and sword, and ladies watch and their "bright eyes rain

influence and judge the prize." And then, there is Camelot

itself; the great gate and the drawbridge; the massive walls,

and the soaring towers and spires above.

Perceval rushes up to Lancelot and Kay.

Kay is not at all pleased; nonetheless he takes the boy by

the ear and leads him across the drawbridge and into the

castle.

Lancelot smiles to himself, hesitation, lingering before the

great gate of Camelot.

There is a walkway suspended in the trees above, that also

leads to the castle, and promenading on it is a group of

women, Guenevere and her ladies-in-waiting. The Queen sees

Lancelot and hastens toward him.

Lancelot sees her, and mounts his horse and heads back into

the forest. She stops, somewhat ahead of the ladies, and

watches wistfully.

Lancelot turns back and seeing her one last time, draws down

his visor and spurs his horse into a canter.

He passes two commoners who are heading for the castle, one

fat and the other thin, and they are locked in hot dispute.

Their wives keep them from coming to blows and their children

spur them on, enjoying the excitement.

Lancelot is swallowed by the forest.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE, CAMELOT - DAY

Guenevere, bearing a bowl of perfect, deep red apples,

approaches the Round Table, where Arthur sits and Merlin at

his side, attending to the affairs of the kingdom. Quite a

few of the knights occupy their seats, talking with each

other, drinking and laughing, attended by ladies and pages.

Guenevere places the apples at Lancelot's empty place and

takes her seat next to Arthur.

In the archways that lead into the hall, petitioners wait,

eating, drinking, talking among themselves. In the din, no

one pays attention to the vehement arguing of the fat man

and the thin man, which continues even here. The hall is the

burgeoning, happy center of the kingdom.

But Merlin is oblivious to the lively clamor. He gazes like

a lovesick puppy across the table at Morgana, who bends over

whispering to a knight at the table, the young Sir Gahalt,,

while his older brother Sir Gawain listens. Morgana notices

Merlin's stare and smiles at him, and then resumes her

flirtation with Sir Gahalt, much to Merlin's annoyance.

Sir Kay ushers the thin man and the fat man into the open

space at the center of the table for their audience with the

king. They quarrel even as Kay tries to present them, and

the attention of the hall gradually focuses on them.

The two men talk at once, interrupting, overlapping.

Arthur is both amused and exasperated.

Arthur addresses the Thin Man.

The Thin Man is crestfallen, the smile gone from his face.

He reluctantly hands the coins to Kay, who gives them to

Arthur. Arthur tosses them in the air and lets them fall on

a metal plate. He hands them back to the Thin Man, who is

totally confused now, as is everybody else.

The knights roar with laughter and the Fat Man and the Thin

Man look at each other in astonishment. Perceval lets out a

raucous laugh that wins him a glance of disapproval from

Kay.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - NIGHT

The din of the petitioners is replaced by music. It is the

hour of the evening feast, and all knights are present, except

Lancelot. Whole tree trunks burn in the great fireplace, and

lambs roast on spits in the flames. Pages run to and fro

with trays of food and wine, Perceval among them.

Morgana stops beside Merlin.

Merlin is in agony, a bug stuck on a pin.

She does, laughing and in complete control. His hand

immediately slides onto her thigh. She removes it, but holds

it in her hand, toying with his fingers.

Merlin looks at her, knowing already, sad yet eager.

Merlin's thoughts have carried him far away, when he realizes

that Arthur is addressing him.

Some knights laugh.

Arthur is taken aback.

He chuckles softly and Arthur is puzzled. A knight speaks

out, the young knight with whom Morgana was flirting. His

manner is sarcastic.

The hall falls silent, all eyes upon the Queen.

Frightened, Gahalt doesn't answer. Morgana has slipped to

Guenevere's side.

Arthur, ashen-faced, turns to Merlin for help, but he has

escaped into sleep...

Morgana picks the bowl up and as she does so, unseen by any

and with a magician's dexterity, she thrusts her fingernails

deep into the top apple. She gives the bowl to Guenevere,

who takes it and sweeps around to where Sir Gahalt sits,

followed by Morgana. The young knight jumps to his feet.

He is too shy to take the shiniest, most beautiful apple on

top, and goes for another one. Morgana giggles, and he looks

at her. She looks at the apple on top and then smiles

encouragingly at him. Sir Gahalt takes it and starts eating

as the Queen returns to her seat.

With the third bite his is unable to breathe. His face goes

red and he rises to his feet, attempting to call out.

He falls, dying immediately. All leap to their feet, and

Arthur rushes to the young knight. Merlin is asleep and far

from human affairs.

Arthur and Sir Gawain rise from the body of the young knight.

Sir Gawain backs away from Arthur and points at Guenevere,

trembling with cold rage.

Guenevere, white and with a broken voice, turns to Arthur.

She begins to swoon and Morgana keeps her steady on her feet.

Arthur slumps into his seat and Sir Gawain kneels before

him.

Enraged, Arthur reaches for Excalibur. But with effort he

checks his impulse.

Arthur cannot look at her.

No one responds. Guenevere falls into her seat. Arthur

searches the eyes of his knights and they evade him.

The knight looks up.

Sir Ector, old and feeble, weeps for Arthur. Someone speaks

up. It is Perceval, who kneels before the Queen. His voice

is unnaturally loud, and his eyes shine with held-back tears;

he stutters.

He is overwhelmed by his own boldness. He looks around. All

eyes are upon him. Guenevere smiles at him, sadly.

Perceval hurries from the hall. Arthur looks away, ashamed,

and his eyes fall on Merlin, twitching and mumbling in his

sleep.

EXT. HOVEL - COUNTRYSIDE - DAY

In full armor but for his helmet, Lancelot is seated at a

small table in the shadow of a tree, eating an apple.

A young girl is turning a chicken on a spit, and her mother

is removing freshly-baked bread from an oven. It is very

peaceful and silent until, galloping all out, Perceval

arrives. Frantic, out of breath, he leaps from his lathered

horse.

The two women set the chicken and the bread before the great

knight, and stand back to watch him eat, flushed with

excitement. Perceval falls silent, in awe of Lancelot.

INT. BEDCHAMBER, CAMELOT - NIGHT

Arthur stands hunched over the fireplace, staring into the

flames. Guenevere paces back and forth to a window.

He hides his anguish from her. Numb with hurt, she goes to a

tall curtained window, and draws it open, and stands there

looking out upon the surrounding forest, silent and still

beneath the moon.

EXT. WINDOW - NIGHT

She cries softly, and she whispers the name of the great

knight.

EXT. EDGE OF THE FOREST, WALLS OF CAMELOT - NIGHT.

A mounted knight stands motionless at the edge of the forest,

his armor gleaming with dark lustre. It is Lancelot. His

eyes are raised to the high window, where he sees Guenevere.

He watches her in silence. In the high window Guenevere draws

the curtain and Lancelot reins back into the forest.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Lancelot has unsaddled and tethered his horse in a small

clearing. He sits, resting back against a tree. He removes

his helmet; he plants his sword before him, like a cross. He

loosens the ties of his breastplate. He waits for day,

yawning, tired. But his eyes burn, and he closes them and

nods off to sleep.

A knight appears silently hovering over him. Lancelot looks

up, and his eyes go wide with fear. The knight towering above

him wears armor identical to his, and he raises his sword,

and the blade is descending upon Lancelot. Lancelot draws

his sword from the ground and rolls away, but the knight's

sword slices through his shoulder joint. Lancelot attempts

to rise but already the knight, Lancelot's mirror image, is

upon him. From the ground, Lancelot parries the blow and

slashes at the opponent's knee, cutting through the joint in

the armor and severing the leg.

The knight doesn't fall, doesn't bleed, doesn't cry out. On

one leg he comes forward, a horror. Lancelot is paralyzed by

fear. As the knight leaps upon Lancelot, Lancelot rises to

meet him, impaling himself on the knight's sword below the

hauberk. He throws the knight to the ground, and comes down

upon him. He rips off the helmet and the breastplate. The

armor is empty and Lancelot rolls over on his back, awakening

from the nightmare with his own sword deep in his stomach,

and in his hand his own helmet and breastplate, while other

parts of his armor lie strewn around him.

Only then does he become conscious of the terrible pain and

the shock of the truth. He grabs the hilt of his sword and

draws it from his stomach. He curls up in agony, clutching a

fistful of leaves to the wound.

He loses consciousness.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND OUTSIDE CAMELOT - DAWN

The Bishop blesses the field. Guenevere, numb and

disbelieving, is being led to the stake, which rises from a

bed of straw and wood. Arthur watches, in shock. Other knights

and ladies keep their distance, watching darkly, stealing

glances at Arthur, mumbling disapproval of his refusing to

defend Guenevere. In battle dress, Sir Gawain rides up and

down the jousting run on a snorting and powerful horse,

practicing. Perceval, in a mail doublet, waits beside a mangy

roan, his face burning with anxiety.

Guenevere is tied to the stake. All eyes watch for the

approach of her champion. Arthur goes to Perceval.

Arthur hides his pain behind a rigid mask.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - DAY

The sun has risen shining cruelly into Guenevere's eyes; the

queen is alone at the stake. Sir Gawain rides up to King

Arthur, who waits alone, separated from the others.

Perceval leaps onto his horse.

Sir Gawain looks at the squire with contempt.

Arthur is in anguish. He searches the tree line for a sign

of Lancelot. He looks from Guenevere at the stake to his own

knights watching him. He draws Excalibur. A gasp goes through

the crowd of onlookers.

Perceval leaps from his horse and bends his knee before the

King. Arthur brings the sword down on the boy's shoulder,

giving him the three strokes.

Gawain shakes his head disdainfully as Perceval mounts back

into the saddle, his eyes burning with fervor.

Sir Gawain and Perceval ride to opposite ends of the field.

The spectators fall silent, all staring blankly, their senses

dulled by the tragedy, at the uneven combatants.

A cry goes up. Lancelot rides out of the forest. He rides up

to the King and salutes him. Arthur smiles at his old friend,

tears of joy in his eyes. Lancelot bows toward Guenevere and

rides on to where Perceval waits.

Lancelot reaches out to touch Perceval's cheek.

Perceval cannot reply, his eyes affixed on the blood that

trickles from Lancelot's hauberk. Lancelot raises his lance

in salute to Gawain across the field. Gawain salutes in

answer.

The two huge knights charge at each other, each man's spear

tip making contact with the other's armor, and in the violent

collision both are unhorsed. Lancelot is slower at getting

to his feet and drawing his sword.

He is bleeding below the hauberk from his self-inflicted

wound.

In the first onslaught Lancelot fights defensively, falling

back. He has to toss aside his shield and hold his stomach

with his shield hand.

Morgana watches with Merlin. Every terrible blow of sword on

sword reverberates through her body pleasurable. Merlin is

captivated by her cruel sensuality.

EXT. JOUSTING GROUND - LATE DAY

They swing and thrust at each other with slower but bone-

crushing force, both unsteady now. Blood seeps from Lancelot's

feet, leaving awful footprints on the earth. Finally, with a

daring thrust, Lancelot lifts Gawain's visor and the sword

tip is before his eyes. Gawain drops his sword and shield,

kneels and speaks in a voice hoarse with weariness.

Lancelot collapses in a dead faint.

INT. CELL, CAMELOT - EVENING

Eyes closed, Lancelot lies on a bed, naked but for a cloth

across his loins. His minor wounds have been dressed, and

Merlin is kneading the huge gash in his stomach, working the

severed flesh together. Guenevere stands on one side of the

bed, Arthur on the other, both looking down upon Lancelot,

relieved and not daring to look at each other.

Guenevere kneels, and at her touch Lancelot's eyes flicker

open. Merlin exits, and draws Arthur away with him.

Arthur is deeply tormented.

Merlin appears moved by the predicaments that Arthur has to

face.

Merlin stares off into the evening sky, where a lark sings

high up.

He taps his skull and smiles.

INT. CELL - EVENING

Lancelot is staring into Guenevere's eyes. She opens her

shift, baring a breast with the innocence of a mother

preparing to suckle a child. She presses her breast to his

wound, her face to his chest, her arms enfolding him. She

whispers.

His body trembles and his eyes brim with tears. He is lost.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE, CAMELOT - NIGHT

The court is assembled, for the evening feast. There is music

and heavy drinking. Some knights are slouched across the

table. Lancelot, still weak, takes his seat, looking at the

drunken and frivolous knights. Arthur catches it, and they

smile at each other.

Guenevere cannot tear her eyes from Lancelot. He avoids her

look. Arthur looks from Guenevere to Lancelot, and speaks

softly to him, across her, and with stabbing directness.

Then, addressing the hall:

He is bent close to Morgana, whispering. Only when the hall

rings with laughter does he look up.

Merlin looks from Arthur to Guenevere to Lancelot to Arthur.

An uneasy silence falls upon the feast. Guenevere and Lancelot

cannot look at each other, and Arthur feels it. Lancelot

jumps to his feet.

Guenevere stifles her dismay.

Arthur is about to rise to embrace him, but checks himself.

The exchange has become closely intimate, even though they

stand apart and speak before everyone in the large hall.

Lancelot leaves. Only Guenevere cannot watch.

EXT. FOREST GLADE -DAY

Water gurgles from a rock that is captive in the roots of an

ancient oak. Lancelot, in armor, reclines against its trunk,

the roots cradling him. He is perfectly still, drawing life

from the vibrant, all-enfolding forest.

Flower petals drift on the breeze. Trees sigh. Fox and rabbit,

sparrow and hawk, at peace with each other, watch over the

knight.

EXT. FOREST -DAY

A horse and rider tear through the thick undergrowth. It is

Guenevere. The forest races past her as she gallops toward

the glade, brambles tearing at her flesh and clothes.

EXT. FOREST GLADE - DAY

Lancelot gets to his feet, tense. Guenevere dismounts and

approaches. She is flushed and breathless from the wild race.

Her horse, left free, wanders over to his and grazes beside

it.

She moves closer and he thrusts out his mailed fist to keep

her away. She clutches it and presses the metal to her soft

tear-streaked cheek.

Hungry with passion, she embraces the cold unmoving armor,

kissing it.

He steps back, drawing his sword. He holds it up by the blade

between them.

And before he can finish she grabs the blade to push it aside.

He holds it fast. Blood streams from her bare hands. He cannot

prevail without cutting them deeply. He lets go of the sword,

and she lets it fall to the ground.

She embraces his still and defeated hulk. She kisses the

metal, and sensation shoots through him, dizzying him.

He folds her in his arm, and their bodies lock together as

though a trap had sprung. Their mouths meet, each devouring

the other...

EXT. BATTLEMENTS, CAMELOT - DUSK

Arthur and Merlin, the King desperate, the Wizard overwhelmed

by compassion:

Arthur looks up and in the rolling clouds maybe, just maybe,

the form of a dragon is taking shape. Arthur draws Excalibur,

intensity animating his dead features.

They embrace. Merlin is on the verge of tears, his face

immediately sad and finally ancient. Arthur exits.

Morgana, who has been watching from the shadows, watching

from the shadows, slinks up to Merlin's side.

Merlin smiles knowingly at her.

He reaches to touch her lips. She cradles his hand in hers

and doesn't allow Merlin to kiss her. She kisses his knuckles

and stares into his eyes, stoking his desire.

She breaks away, provocative, alluring.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Arthur and Sir Kay gallop through the forest, silently. It

is not a dream.  Their armor and the hooves of their horses

are muffled with pieces of cloth.

EXT. FOREST GLADE - NIGHT

Only Nature will ever see their love; the creatures of the

air, tree and ground witness the final reality of their

passion and sense its unfathomable depths, singing of it in

a hundred languages. Lancelot and Guenevere are naked and

interlocked, one being, suspended in the darkness in the eye

of the forest.

EXT. FOREST - NIGHT

Arthur walks soundlessly through the trees, approaching the

glade. The forest falls suddenly silent.

EXT. FOREST GLADE - NIGHT

All passion spent, locked in each other's arms, Lancelot and

Guenevere drift off into sleep.

Arthur comes upon them. He stands over them. He draws

Excalibur. Checking all emotion, he holds it above his head.

The ancient steel glows darkly.

The lovers faces are serene and innocently beautiful. He

hesitates, tormented. His mask of anguish gives way to

determination and calm. He strikes the sword home, letting

go of it.

He backs away, turns and disappears into the forest.

EXT. FOREST GLADE - DAWN

The sky is red; so is the steel of Excalibur. Lancelot awakens

and starts at what he sees. His cry stirs Guenevere. They

are horrified to see Excalibur impaled in the ground between

their entwined bodies. It has pierced their union without

grazing their flesh. They leap up and back away, unable to

speak at first.

She kneels before the sword, embracing the hilt to her breast.

Lancelot stumbles into the forest, berserk with guilt. He

rages against a small tree, crying out, and he rips its roots

from the ground, the terrible tearing and renting the symbol

of his own inner torment.

Guenevere sinks to the ground next to Lancelot's empty armor

and his abandoned sword.

INT. DUNGEONS OF CAMELOT

Merlin and Morgana descend winding steps cut out of rock.

The only light comes from the glow of Merlin's staff.

He laughs.

He leans close to her ear, whispering into it.

He is about to kiss her when he slips. He laughs.

INT. CAVE BENEATH CAMELOT

They pass through jaws of stalactites and stalagmites. Merlin

cracks his staff whip-like and a ball of fire billows up

from the tip and illuminates a cave wildly veined and

filigreed with minerals and crusted with growths of crystals.

The light goes out but the malachite and the gold, the quartz,

diamond and beryllium burn dully. He turns to her, suddenly

tall and unstooped, younger, sleek and evil.

He sweeps her up into his arms.

He deposits her on bare rock. He kisses her. She pushes him

away.

She leans forward and kisses his ear and whispers.

She draws closer, kissing him deeply. He breathes heavily.

Morgana falls silent as Merlin raises a hand, majestically

intoning a harsh repetitive charm. The mineral veins of the

cave begin to glow and fog seeps out from them enveloping

the couple.

Morgana burns with intensity. Merlin utters a formula and

the fog coalesces around them into the shimmering presence

of crystal walls, fountains raining jewels, flowers made of

scented air, a bed of glass shot with light and covered with

skins of animals dead before the time of man, goblets of

ruby, tapestries woven of golden hair. She reaches out to

touch the wall and her hand plunges through the unmaterialized

illusion.

She begins lacing up her loosened gown.

She does, a mad hope in her eyes. She kisses his chest.

He utters the ancient charm, Morgana listening closely,

memorizing it. The illusion is all of a sudden solid.

She runs her hand across the hard crystal surface, her eyes

gleaming.

From outside the wondrous room they can be seen to embrace.

He carries her to the magical bed where he makes love to

her, as they disappear from view in its effulgent light.

She comes out through the crystal door, burning with evil

intent. She turns to watch him asleep in the bed.

She utters the charm of Summoning learnt from Merlin, and

the room melts into an eddying carmine fog. Within it, Merlin

struggles to awaken from the torpor of love, alarmed.

Outside, Morgana utters the charm of Making and the gaseous

mass begins to crystallize.

Inside, Merlin is rising to his feet, breathing the red fog,

his movements slowing to a standstill, his mouth opening in

a scream of horror.

The cloud has metamorphosed into a magnificent cluster of

red crystals.  Morgana peers into its facets and there she

sees, in fragments, Merlin's terror... an eye, the gaping

mouth, a clawing hand--as he is entombed in the stone. She

laughs in triumph.

EXT. FOREST - CAMELOT - DAY

Surrounded by forest, the spires and battlements of Camelot

rise under black storm clouds. Arthur and Kay ride back to

the castle.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - DAY

The great hall is in gloom. Few knights are in attendance at

the table.

Some sleep off last night's wine. Arthur approaches, haggard,

searching.

Knights look up; those who meet Arthur's reddened eyes shake

their heads.

Arthur leaves. A knight whispers to another.

INT. PASSAGEWAYS, CAMELOT - DAY

Echoing in the vaulted corridors outside the hall, the

knight's whisper stabs Arthur.

The words now seem borne on the whistling wind and follow

the King wherever he goes in search of Merlin. He comes upon

a knight seducing a lady in a dark corner by the chapel door,

his hand under her gown. Arthur notes the sacrilege in

silence, and continues on his way.

INT. BEDCHAMBER - DAY

The wind keens. Thunder rolls overhead. Arthur enters his

bedchamber. He sits by the empty fireplace, a broken man.

Feminine hands light on his shoulders. He starts. He looks

up. It is Morgana. He smiles and grasps her hand.

She comes around and she kneels in front of him. Before he

can talk she silences him with a tender caress.

He shakes his head.

She begins untying the laces of his metal thigh and shin

guards.

She is stripping his legs naked, gently touching the flesh

with her fingertips. He stares off, remembering.

Arthur's eyes brim with tears. Morgana weeps, embracing his

knees. He rests his hand gently upon her head, choked with

remembrance, soothing her. But as she weeps, she incants a

charm.

Arthur looks down upon her, and the woman who looks up at

him is Guenevere, a Guenevere with cold ice eyes. He is made

weak by desire and weakened further by magic. He holds her

face adoringly.

She draws him to the floor and upon her body, holding him

tightly to himself. Arthur trembles with excitement, pathetic

in his desperate passion.

As he takes her, she shudders, losing control of the charm,

and her features change till once again "Guenevere" is

Morgana. She holds him in a tight embrace so that he may not

see her. She whispers in his ear.

Arthur wrenches himself away so he can see her, her arms

still around his neck. He looks down upon her, aghast,

incredulous.

She presses her thumbs into his neck and he faints.

EXT. FOREST - CAMELOT - DAY

Morgana, with a small party, rides away from the castle

through the lashing storm, till they are taken from sight in

the folds of the forest...

INT. CHAPEL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

Lightening forks across the sky, illuminating the interior.

The chapel has been transformed into a place of satanic

worship. Held up and surrounded by hooded figures, Morgana

lies on the altar, her pregnant belly huge; and her features

are fierce with passionate intensity. She writhes in the

pangs of childbirth.

INT. CHAPEL, CAMELOT - NIGHT

Arthur enters, pale and haunted. Mass is being celebrated,

and some knights are present. Those not asleep whisper to

each other about the King. The sound of an approaching storm

is heard.

As the priest raises the chalice to consecrate the wine.

Arthur comes down the aisle and steps onto the altar. He

reaches out to grasp the chalice from the priest's hands.

INT. CHAPEL, TINTAGEL CASTLE - NIGHT

Morgana holds aloft her beautiful newborn baby, his body

glistening in a flash of lightening. She is triumphant.

INT. CHAPEL, CAMELOT - NIGHT.

A bolt of lightening strikes the chalice, rocking the chapel,

and Arthur is knocked back violently.

Rain lashes in through the shattered window upon the terrified

knights. They and the priest back away. Arthur is left alone.

He rises and goes to the chalice, which is bent and cracked.

He kneels before it. Steam hisses up as rain falls on it.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - DAY

Sun streams in. Many of the knights are in attendance, in

full armor.

Ladies and pages watch from dark corners. Arthur addresses

the fellowship.

He holds the cracked chalice in his hands. He burns with a

new-found fervor.

Gawain rises and draws his sword in salute.

Perceval, Kay and a few others draw their swords and touch

their lips to the blades in oath. Sunbeams splash off their

armor.

The rest of the fellowship draw their swords in imitation,

but the resolution within them is not strong. Arthur comes

forward to Gawain.

He embraces Gawain, tears in his eyes. He turns to Perceval,

and Perceval kneels.

Arthur kisses the young knight's brow. Then he turns to Kay.

Arthur and Kay watch the knights file out till the hall is

empty, the harsh song of their armor growing distant.

A LEGEND APPEARS:

"For nine years they searched. Morgana's power grew in the

land."

FADE IN:

EXT. SNOWSCAPE - DAY

Under a leaden sky, Gawain drives his horse through swirling

snow. He comes upon a mounted knight who is frozen in his

tracks. He brushes the snow from the man's face. The frozen

features belong to Caradoc. He slowly continues on his way.

EXT. DEAD FOREST - DAY

Dangling from the branches of a dead tree are a dozen dead

knights of the Round Table, crows pecking at the rotting

flesh in the chinks of armor. Perceval rides up, cries out

in horror, and spurs his horse away.

EXT. MOORS - DAY

The rotting carcasses of sheep. The crops blackened and

withered on the stalk. Hungry peasants head for a distant

hill.

EXT, HILLSIDE, MOORS - DAY

A giant head has been carved out of an outcrop of rock, its

stone mouth gaping toward the sky.

People are congregated around the mouth. Peasants and farmers,

they are wild with excitement, responding to drums throbbing

and bagpipes wailing.

They watch Morgana, who is surrounded by knights in dark

armor. At her side is an angelic boy of eight, his eyes cold

as his mother's. Morgana is more beautiful than ever, in

flowing druidic robes, the gossamer silk clinging to her

sweat-drenched body.

She is standing by the deep hole which forms the giant's

open mouth. It is covered by a tooth-like grating acting as

a drain for the blood of human sacrifices made there. Before

her is Gawain, chained and struggling against five strong

men who hold him. Morgana lifts a dagger and plunges it into

Gawain's chest. The fountain of blood that gushes from the

great knight's body drives the crowd into a frenzy.

Gawain, his blood flowing from him and into the giant's mouth,

looks up in anguish. His bellowing voice is echoed and

amplified by the hollow beneath the drain.

EXT. MOORS - DAY

Gawain's death cry and the din of the ritual carries to

Perceval's ears as he wanders through the wasteland. He draws

down his visor and spurs his horse forward.

EXT. HILLSIDE, MOORS - DAY

He gallops toward the giant's head. He checks his sword and

lowers his lance.

The knight charging forward on his war horse is an awesome

sight, but the crowd around the giant's mouth is strangely

unfrightened. Morgana is excited; she turns to the boy.

Perceval is galloping toward them when the ground gives way

beneath the horse, and he and the animal plunge into a pit.

The cheering crowd rushes to the edge of the trap.

Her knights drag Perceval, unarmed, into Morgana's presence.

Perceval doesn't answer, defiant and hiding his fear.

Holding Perceval by his limbs and hair, the men force him

down on the bloody grating, drawing back his head, exposing

his throat. Morgana kneels by his head, and draws the boy

beside her. She holds the tip of the dagger to Perceval's

neck and takes Mordred's hand and wraps it around the handle.

Perceval is choked with fear, his heart pounding in his

throat.

The boy looks up at his mother. The vein in Perceval's neck

pushes against the dagger's point.

The boy raises the dagger, and hesitates just a bit. Perceval

resigns himself bravely. He looks the child calmly in the

eye. Mordred brings down the blade without strength, just

piercing the skin with the tip. He lets go of the dagger,

afraid now of his mistake.

The dagger clatters to the grating and slips away down the

drain, before Morgana can retrieve it. She rages against

Mordred. In the confusion, Perceval tears loose, the men

holding him slipping on the blood-wet stone.

Perceval runs through the crowd. Immediately, lance lowered,

a knight is upon him. Perceval leaps toward him, catching

the lance in his hand, and pulling down the rider with it.

He jumps the rider and draws the knight's sword. Whirling

the lance and cutting the air with the sword, he keeps back

the other knights for a moment, giving him time to see his

chance. He leaps onto the riderless horse and charges off

through the crowd. He reins in abruptly, the horse rearing.

He is wary of the ground before him; there could be a hidden

pit. But there is no time to think. Knights and men on foot

are rushing him. He spurs forward into a gallop, the horse

striding mightily And its hind leg sinks into a pit, the

animal losing its gait. But the momentum carries the horse

forward, and it recovers from the stumble.

Perceval gallops away.

Morgana is enraged. She shakes Mordred by the hair.

But suddenly she begins kissing him tenderly.

He just stands there emotionless, the dead center of her

turbulent passions.

EXT. DEAD FOREST - DAY

Perceval gallops down a trail. The black-armored knights of

Morgana chase him.

Perceval reins into deep cover alongside the trail. The

pursuers thunder past and the sound of hooves recedes.

Perceval checks his newly found sword, slashes the air to

feel the weapon's balance. He re-sheathes it. He pats the

horse.

He starts off again, into the patchless forest of dead trees.

He is suddenly set upon by a wildman who, swinging a small

uprooted tree, knocks him off his horse. Perceval crashes to

the ground and before he can use his sword the wildman has

knocked it out of his hand.

It is Lancelot, demented, who furiously rains battering blows

on Perceval's armor, bellowing with rage. All that Perceval

can do is attempt to avoid the blows. Lancelot addresses

Perceval as if the young knight were Lancelot himself.

Before Perceval can speak, Lancelot disappears again into

the forest, his eyes blank, as though his encounter with the

young knight had never happened.

A knot of pain, Perceval pulls himself up. He tries to rise

into the saddle. He is too hurt to do it. He starts off on

foot, slowly, leading the horse.

EXT. DEAD FOREST AND STREAM - NIGHT

It is very dark and Perceval has to feel his way.

He comes to the edge of a stream. He kneels to drink, and

the horse drinks beside him. Then he rests back on his heels,

brooding, too tired to rise.

He lowers his eyes, staring into the dark water, defeated,

empty.

Before him in the water a long thin bar of light appears. He

looks at it amazed. Voices are heard singing very far away.

He reaches out to touch the long strip of light but his hand

just disturbs the water. It is a reflection. The strip grows

wider and the ethereal music is closer.

Perceval looks up. The strip of light is before him,

suspended, thirty feet above. It continues to grow wider. A

drawbridge is being slowly lowered, allowing a powerful light

to escape from within.

Perceval is terrified. In pain, he slowly rises into the

saddle, ready to gallop off; but fascinated, hypnotized by

the sight, he cannot, and he stays and watches.

The dim outline of a castle becomes visible as the drawbridge

is lowered across the water to the ground at his feet. At

the center of the blast of light coming from the castle,

Perceval can make out a burning chalice. The music swells to

a terrifying pitch, searing the forest.

EXT. ENTRANCE TO CASTLE - NIGHT

At the sight of the chalice, Perceval masters his fear. Bathed

in light and music, he spurs the horse forward onto the

drawbridge.

Once he is on it, the bridge begins to rise. Unsure of its

footing and blinded by the light, the horse becomes skittish,

and Perceval has to struggle to control it. He dismounts to

lead it, but the horse is terrified, rears up and jumps off

the bridge, which continues to rise, drawn up by unseen hands.

Perceval hesitates, then advances down the sloping drawbridge

into the castle courtyard. All details are bleached out by

the blinding light. The chalice appears suspended in space,

and now the figure of a man can be glimpsed standing behind

it.

Enchanting music from unseen singers grows and weaves.

Perceval looks back to see the drawbridge slowly closing,

trapping him inside.

He approaches the figure, his courage ebbing. Hands cupping

the chalice, it speaks to him.

Perceval doesn't understand. He glances back again. The

drawbridge is nearly closed. Terror seizes him.

Panicked, puzzled, baffled, he backs away. He scrambles up

the drawbridge desperate to reach the top before it closes.

He claws his way up till his hand grasps the top. He heaves

himself through the narrow closing slit which is about to

crush him. He screams, and with a final effort he wriggles

free and topples over crashing into the water below.

EXT. DEAD FOREST AND STREAM - NIGHT

He looks up. The drawbridge thunders shut, the last thin

strip of light disappearing; and now he is surrounded only

by the silence of the forest.

Where there was a castle, now there is darkness. Perceval

wades through the water. He has crossed the stream and all

he can see and feel are tree trunks. The castle has

disappeared. He is utterly defeated.

A LEGEND APPEARS:

"Nine years passed."

FADE IN:

INT. CAVE BENEATH CAMELOT.

Dripping water is steadily encrusting the crystal with

limestone.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE, CAMELOT - DAY

Dead knights lay on biers. The once glorious seat of power

is falling into decay. Few are in attendance around the table.

Agitated, Kay enters and goes to Arthur, who is worn and

haggard, and aged.

Arthur comes alive.

EXT. GATE, INSIDE AND OUTSIDE CAMELOT - DAY

The drawbridge lowers slowly, and Arthur moves away from Kay

and the other knights, and advances across it.

Rooks wheel over the dead trees of the forest that surrounds

Camelot. A group of armed men waits at the edge of the forest.

One steps forward, a huge knight in black armor, the metal

defining and exaggerating the powerful musculature of his

body. He is Mordred, a young man of eighteen, and of

extraordinary beauty. A page follows ten steps behind him

bearing an enormous spear, its points hooded. Arthur stops

at the edge of the drawbridge, the huge knight a few steps

from him. Kay, ready for anything, moves halfway across the

drawbridge.

Mordred kneels on one knee.

He points to the huge lance. The page pulls a string and the

hood drops, revealing a diabolically sharp spear tip, its

metal glinting menacingly.

Mordred is thrown off by the doubt Arthur has cast. Arthur

looks upon his son, desperately trying to read him.

Arthur goes forward to embrace his son, a desperate attempt.

Mordred recoils.

Arthur is on the verge of tears.

He turns and re-enters the castle, the drawbridge pulled up

immediately behind him. He is hunched over, broken.

EXT. BARREN LAND - EVENING

Asleep in the saddle, Perceval rides across burnt and

smoldering fields. The horse walks aimlessly; it is the same

animal, mangy and old. A hoard of children in filthy rags

closes in on him, begging, pulling at the horse's trappings.

He bolts awake and reins away. His eyes are red and feverish.

Wild hope grips him when he sees a glinting light by a

farmhouse. He spurs the horse forward into a gallop.

EXT. FARM - EVENING

He leaps from the saddle and a terrified woman backs away.

Perceval plunges his hand into the source of light. It is

nothing but the reflection of the dying sun in a bucketful

of water. Perceval covers his face.

Peasants have emerged, surrounding him, and they hold axes

and pitchforks.

At least ten peasants encircle Perceval and he is too

exhausted to put up a fight. They grab him and carry him

away. Other peasants pull his horse to the ground, and one

raises and ax to kill it.

EXT. STREAM, BARREN LAND - EVENING

They throw Perceval down an escarpment and he rolls into the

fast-moving water. He is swept downstream and thrown

ferociously against the rocks in the stream bed, crying out

in pain.

EXT. RIVER AND UNDERWATER - EVENING

The water is deeper and Perceval is dragged under by the

weight of his armor. He struggles desperately to shed it,

half drowning.

Exhausted, he pulls himself up onto the muddy shore beside a

rotting sheep carcass, and around him, the daylight dies.

EXT. RIVER - NIGHT

Ragged and bruised, lifeless, he stares into space.

A light bursting through the trees shines on the mud,

wordless, harmonies sound somewhere in the forest. Perceval

sets off toward the source.

The burning light blasts into his face but he doesn't flinch.

The chorus builds in power. Before him, a drawbridge lowers.

EXT. CASTLE GATE - NIGHT

He steps onto the bridge and walks in. He crosses the

courtyard as the drawbridge closes behind him. All details

of the castle are bleached out by the searing light.

EXT. CASTLE GATE - NIGHT

He steps onto the bridge and walks in. He crosses the

courtyard as the drawbridge closes behind him. All details

of the castle are bleached out by the searing light.

INT. CASTLE, VARIOUS

Heading for the source of the light he ascends what seem to

be a staircase. He enters a hall where the chalice stands

suspended, burning with light, and the mysterious music swirls

and grows.

Perceval approaches the diaphanous and featureless Figure

who stands over the chalice.

Perceval cups his hands around the chalice to lift it. But

they close on nothing, and he draws back. The Figure's hands,

although insubstantial, grasp Perceval's and appear to hold

his hands around the cup.

Perceval begins to kneel.

The blinding light vanishes, the music drifts away.

INT. HALL OF THE ROUND TABLE - NIGHT

Perceval falls to his knees before Arthur and he holds the

chalice, now whole again, up to the King. It fills with blood

from within and Arthur takes it from Perceval. He drinks.

And having done so, he seems to become younger and to grow

in strength.

Sir Kay stands by the vast fireplace where a small fire burns,

and only now looks up and is aware of Perceval.

EXT. WOODS AND FIELDS - NIGHT

Arthur at the head of a small force of knights, their armor

shining beneath the moon, gallops through the land. Where

hooves thunder, the ground becomes alive with sprouts and

tendrils, and bare trees start to bud, and grasses to blossom,

the power of Nature exploding into life.

INT. CONVENT - DAWN

An old nun approaches the doors, upon which someone is

pounding loudly. She opens the peephole. It is Arthur.

The old nun is amazed and starts pushing open the many bolts,

mumbling and agitated.

INT. CONVENT COURTYARD - DAWN

She leads the King, his footsteps ringing in the silent

cloister, past the doors to the cells. His armor is wet with

dew and it shines with a dull and deep luster. Nuns whisper

at his transit. She opens the door to a cell and Arthur steps

inside.

INT. CELL - DAWN

Candles flicker on a small altar before which a nun is

praying. She turns to see who has entered. It is Guenevere,

older, thin with self-denial, all the more beautiful. She

looks up at the majestic figure who stands before her. She

nearly swoons. He helps her to her feet, and words rush from

deep within him.

She weeps.

She draws back the covers of her pallet, and there is

Excalibur. Arthur is overwhelmed by emotion; he can barely

speak

He kneels before her and kisses her thigh. She gazes off,

remembering the life of long ago. He rises and looks off

into her eyes, unable to find the words; he finally does.

He takes Excalibur by the hilt and exits.

INT. CONVENT COURTYARD - DAWN

The nuns scatter before him in awe and terror. He strides

forward, Excalibur in hand. He stops and tests its balance,

and he draws force from it.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Excalibur gleams in the sunlight. Arthur holds it high, at

the head of a small force of knights under the banner of the

Dragons. Kay and Perceval ride at his side. Plumed helmets,

shields blazing with armorial colors, pennants flying in the

clean wind from their lances; it is a brave sight. The trees

are in blossom and dandelion fluff billows up at their

passage.

EXT. PIT, MOORS - DAY

Arthur's group comes to a halt. Two knights and a few squires

galloping from the opposite direction rein in before the

King. The knights draw their swords in homage, and the older

one addresses Arthur.

Arthur smiles hiding the hurt. He points to an open pit, a

huge devastation.

EXT. THE MOORS - ARTHUR'S WAR CAMP - LATE EVENING

It is a clear night and the sky blazes with stars. A crescent

moon casts its silvery light upon Arthur, who wanders from

his camp alone.

EXT. STONEHENGE, THE MOORS - LATE EVENING

He stops in the ancient circle of Druidic stones.

He falls on his knees in front of the stone, tired, between

thinking and dreaming, and he bangs his mailed fist against

it.

INT. CAVE BELOW CAMELOT

The veins of crystal glow darkly, and the hammering of

Arthur's fist upon the stone is dimly echoed here. In the

red crystal, fragments of Merlin can be glimpsed, trapped,

frozen.

EXT. STONEHENGE - LATE EVENING

Arthur slips off into sleep. The stones around him distort.

He speaks softly, but then though the words continue, his

lips are closed.

INT. CAVE BELOW CAMELOT

The crystal is cracking, shards falling to the cave floor.

EXT. STONEHENGE - NIGHT

Arthur is still on his knees, and he sits back, looking up.

But the atmosphere is different, within a dream, and the

stones of the henge loom larger over him now.

A hand ruffles the King's hair. He turns, and is face to

face with Merlin, standing over him. Arthur looks at him

without surprise, as though the intervening years never were.

Merlin begins to laugh his hideous giggle. Arthur rises.

He limps affectedly and stretches with exaggerated pain.

Merlin smiles, turns and leaves, heading for Arthur's camp,

giggling. Arthur starts off after him and awakens from the

dream when he walks into one of the stones. It takes him a

moment to realize that Merlin has vanished.

He hurries away toward the camp.

INT. KAY'S TENT, ARTHUR'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

Arthur shakes Kay awake, and as the faithful knight comes

out of a deep sleep, he clutches Arthur's arm.

EXT. MORDRED'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

Cape flowing, Merlin sweeps between Mordred's war tents, and

in the logic of dreams, unseen by the guards. He passes a

tent where the huge shadow of Mordred is thrown on the canvas,

as he sharpens the blade of a fearsome spear.

He enters a tent.

INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT

She is stunningly beautiful in her sleep. Merlin leans over

her lovely body, kisses her softly on the lips, and waits

for her to awaken.

INT. TENT - MORGANA'S DREAM

She rises from her sleeping body.

Merlin steps back, grandiose and melodramatic.

He raises his staff.

He lowers the staff with dreamlike slowness and she slinks

right up to him.

She winds her fluttering hands around the staff, and the

shadows they cast upon the tent give the illusion of licking

flames.

She laughs at her cleverness.

INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT

Morgana tosses and mutters in her tormented dream.

INT. TENT - MORGANA'S DREAM

Merlin, huge, magnetic, enfolds Morgana in his cape.

And he laughs at her, suffocating her. Morgana begins chanting

the charm of Making, desperate--

INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT

--and she finishes uttering it in her sleep. Her eyes spring

open, and vapors issue from her gaping mouth. She screams

and the fog gushes out filling the tent.

EXT. MORGANA'S TENT, MORDRED'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

Fog billows out of the tent, spreading through the camp.

INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT

He rises and goes out with the lieutenant.

EXT. MORDRED'S WAR CAMP - NIGHT

It is fogbound, the campfires yellow smudges within it.

Mordred enters his mother's tent.

INT. MORGANA'S TENT - NIGHT

Mordred enters.

Morgana, withered, old, lies dead in the bed, wisps of smoke

rising from within her ruptured body.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - FOG - DAWN

Arthur, with Kay and Perceval, canters through the white

fog. They are flanked by a phalanx of knights in silver armor.

Kay draws his sword in salute, elated.

He spurs forward, while Arthur reins to a halt, watching him

disappear. Perceval and a few knights stay behind and surround

the King.

Ahead, the horrible din of joined battle.

In the swirling fog, clash of arms follows clash of arms.

There is confusion, for each knight is unable to see if he

is fighting friend or foe until they are upon each other.

The battle becomes a series of vicious duels, a knight in

silver armor against a knight in black-burnished armor, just

glimpsed in the fog that is alive with the clang of sword on

shield, the pounding of hooves, the cries of the dying.

Squires drag away their wounded knights, their young faces

pale at the sight of the carnage.

Kay is unhorsed but picks himself up and mounts a riderless

horse, rejoining the combat although he is bleeding.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - FOG - DAY

It is full day, and the fog blinds with its painful glare.

Arthur with Perceval at his side rides through the fog,

searching. Perceval takes up a challenge against the King.

He unhorses this opponent, piercing him with his lance. He

returns to the King's side.

Kay is glimpsed fighting on foot, hurt, barely holding his

own, but then the sight is hidden in the fog.

Kay overcomes his opponent and stops to catch his breath. He

is amazed by what he sees. A knight, in old, battle-scarred

armor whose pieces don't match, cuts down the knights in

black in foray after foray, wheeling and turning in a

brilliant and ruthless spectacle of martial arts. He fights

without a shield, a lance in his left hand and sword in his

right.

Kay moves away in search of Arthur.

Arthur and Perceval watch the lone knight meting out death

with such terrible beauty, weaving in and out of the fog.

He spurs his horse forward to join him, but Perceval is quick

to stop him.

Kay rises onto a fresh horse and gallops away.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - FOG - LATE DAY

Arthur and Perceval ride alone, the accompanying knights

gone, the dying and the dead and the crazed horses all around

them.

Squires are carrying Kay upon his shield. He is dead. Arthur

leaps to the ground and reaches out to touch his face, and

closes his eyes. He stifles his tears.

Arthur rushes off, Perceval following on horseback.

Lancelot is mortally wounded, blood flowing from his abdomen,

his eyes open but his gaze dead. Arthur falls to his side.

But there is no one now except the dead and wounded, and

Perceval, who dismounts to watch over the King, sword drawn.

Desperate, Arthur stops the wound with his hand. Lancelot's

eyes are sightless, but tears spill from them.

He tears off a piece of his tunic and staunches the wound

with it.

Arthur takes Lancelot in his arms and rests his lips against

the knight's brow.

He lies, closing his eyes, unable to look at Lancelot.

A boyish smile settles over the features of Lancelot's face,

and he dies. Arthur holds him to his breast, his eyes shut

tight.

A strong wind rises. Perceval kneels beside Arthur.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - EVENING

Arthur and Perceval rise, and as far as they can see across

the green hills that roll down to the sea lies the aftermath

of the massacre. Hacked bodies, abandoned armor, steaming

horse carcasses, everything still. The murmur of the dying

is carried on the wind to the soft roar of the sea. The

squires have fled the scene of horror.

Elsewhere on the battlefield, Mordred searches the dead,

accompanied only by his lieutenant, who turns over the bodies

of Arthur's knights.

One of Arthur's knights reaches out blindly for help. Mordred

crushes his skull underfoot. The shaft of his huge lance is

caked with blood, as are his hands.

Arthur and Perceval see Mordred and his lieutenant, and the

King restrains Perceval from going forward.

Shield on his left arm, and Excalibur in his right, he starts

toward Mordred.

Mordred advances forward, the huge spear in both hands and

parallel to the ground.

Arthur goes straight for him, shield ready to receive the

blow. Mordred keeps walking, his arms now tensed back and

ready to strike.

Once they are within weapon's reach of each other, Mordred

dashes forward and thrusts the spear. It glances off Arthur's

shield, slides under his hauberk and penetrates the King's

body, and so powerful was the blow that the blade pierces

him right through.

Mortally wounded, Arthur's scream of pain becomes a horrible

war cry, and he drives himself forward with all the strength

he has along the spear shaft almost to Mordred's hands.

Mordred is knocked back and to the ground and Arthur presses

down on him, the butt of the spear pinning Mordred. Arthur

lifts Excalibur. Mordred attempts to free himself, as the

blade of Excalibur descends upon him and cuts through metal,

flesh and bone.

Mordred's head falls to the ground, rolling away.

Mordred's lieutenant flees. Perceval races to Arthur's side,

and supports the King who has fallen on his knees. Arthur

speaks through the pain:

Perceval holds the King tight to himself with one arm, while

with the other he draws the shaft through and out of Arthur's

body. Arthur sags but doesn't fall. Perceval begins to remove

his armor to get at the gaping wounds. The King speaks slowly,

softly, from outside his own pain-wracked body.

Perceval, stunned by the command, doesn't move.

Perceval picks up the sword, mounts his horse and rides

inland. Arthur watches him go, struggling with the pain,

still kneeling, and then his head falls to his chest.

EXT. POOL, MOORS - EVENING

Perceval steps through tall reeds to the edge of a pool. He

cannot bring himself to throw Excalibur into the water. He

examines the blade, and it is haloed with a faint iridescence.

He backs away from the water and hides the sword in the reeds,

and starts back.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - EVENING

Perceval dismounts, rushing to kneel at the King's side.

Arthur looks up, calm and intense.

The King looks at him with piercing power. Perceval blurts

it out.

Perceval leaves once more. The daylight is failing, the sun

is near the horizon over the sea, bursting through clouds.

EXT. POOL - EVENING

He picks up the sword and looks at it for a long time.

Finally, with great misgiving, he hurls it into the middle

of the pool. As Excalibur is about to touch the water a

woman's hand reaches and grasps it by the hilt. It holds the

sword aloft for a moment and then draws it under.

Perceval backs away from the pool stunned by the marvel.

EXT. MOORS BY THE SEA - SUNSET

Perceval returns to the King, terribly excited, shouting

from his horse:

But Arthur isn't there. Perceval looks around him, he doesn't

understand. He sees a trail of blood. He spurs his horse and

follows the trail down to the sea.

EXT. BEACH - SUNSET THEN NIGHT

There is a trail of blood and prints upon the sand left by a

man crawling.

Perceval follows them toward the sea. He looks around,

searching, terribly distraught.

Where the blood and prints cease, there are many footprints

coming from and returning into the sea. Perceval looks out

across the waves.

He sees a sailing vessel rising on the swell. On its deck he

can make out the distant figure of Arthur, lying surrounded

by women, their gossamer robes rippling in the wind. The sun

hovers on the horizon and the ship is heading for it.

He gallops into the waves until his horse will go no further,

calling out with all his strength, a futile attempt:

The sun slips below the horizon. Night is falling, and the

wind whips the wavecrests. He turns from the sea and wades

back.

He stops at the edge of the water. In the uncertain light

sky and sea become one. He draws the chalice out of a pouch

on his saddle, and he holds it up before him.

The wind swirls and whistles mysteriously in the hollow of

the cup. Music grand and melancholic grows from it. The

chalice, etched in starlight, is the last thing that is taken

from sight in the enfolding darkness.

