INT. TRIBECA LOFT - DAY

The CAMERA TRACKS slowly through clouds of moving dust. Shafts

of muted light pierce the dense atmosphere. An eerie

netherworld envelops us. Strange ghostly forms appear and

disappear in the distance. They seem like apparitions.

Broken timbers and dangling cables emerge from the smoky

light. We see hints of a huge demolished space.

An old white plaster wall FILLS THE SCREEN. Momentary blips

of light flash across it. SOUNDS of street traffic are heard

dimly in the distance.

With startling impact, the SOUND of a sledgehammer explodes

out of nowhere. The wall shudders.

HAMMER BLOWS assault the audience. They are loud and jarring.

The wall buckles.

Chunks of plaster CRASH to the floor. The air fills with new

swirls of white dust. The SLEDGEHAMMER smashes INTO VIEW.

Beams of sunlight cut through the cracks, piercing the

atmosphere like searchlights in a fog. A huge section of

wall falls toward camera as more plaster billows into the

air. We hear voices talking.

Through jagged holes we can make out three dim figures on

the other side of the wall, all wielding SLEDGEHAMMERS.

One of the figures adjusts something over his face. Isolated

rays of sunlight dance around him casting long shadows in

the air.

His hammer pounds the wall. Molly laughs.

ANGLE

The CAMERA MOVES IN and for the first time we see them. MOLLY

JENSEN, in her late 20's, has a bandanna around her hair and

a workman's mask over her nose, but we can tell from her

eyes and cheekbones that she is beautiful. SAM WHEAT, in his

late 30's, is also hidden behind a mask, but he has a strong

forehead and handsome features. Sweat is dripping down his

brow, leaving streaks in the dust. CARL BRUNER, early 30's,

removes his mask revealing a good looking young man with a

fashionable two-day stubble. Both men have their shirts off.

ANGLE

BLACKNESS AND A LOUD THUD. Suddenly a shaft of light

penetrates the darkness. Another thud and more light. We see

a hole. The hook of a crowbar enters it, grappling with

something around the edges. Then, with a tug and a loud yank,

a huge section of tin ceiling crashes to the floor. Huge

clouds of dust fly into the air. Molly looks up, astonished.

Carl laughs as he looks at Sam. Their bodies, covered with

white powder, appear as strange, ghostly figures.

Sam glances down at his white body. They all laugh.

Sam obeys. Molly doodles on his chest, drawing a bow tie and

the outline of a tuxedo jacket. Her lines are quick,

accomplished, and subtly erotic.

Molly nods. She reaches out and superimposes an armless female

torso over his. His stomach jumps sensually as she touches

it. Molly pulls back to admire her work. He looks like a

Greek statue.

Molly laughs.

ANGLE

Sam, Molly, and Carl are holding their sledgehammers. Molly

begins to count.

In unison, they hit it once more. A massive section of plaster

and metal topples to the ground. New clouds of dust fill the

air. Suddenly, Sam spies an old jar lying on the floor.

Something rattles inside it, a penny.

She glances at him lovingly. Carl looks at the two of them

and grins.

As the dust settles we see, for the first time, the outlines

of the space they are working in. It is a huge loft over

four thousand square feet. Banks of windows run east and

west. Molly steps back and admires the room.

OMITTED

EXT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - HEADQUARTERS - DAY

It is morning rush hour. Sam and Carl, both wearing suits

and ties, exit the Wall Street subway station and approach

the Headquarters of Market Security Bank & Trust.

Sam seems preoccupied.

Sam's jacket flares open. He is wearing yellow suspenders.

Carl notices.

Sam, not completely comfortable wearing them, buttons his

jacket.

Carl smiles and then turns to admire a car going by.

INT. BANK HEADQUARTERS, ELEVATOR - DAY

Sam and Carl are standing on a crowded elevator. It is deadly

quiet. Suddenly Carl elbows Sam and winks. There is something

he wants him to do. Sam hesitates a moment, annoyed, and

then relents. He clears his throat.

He sneezes. People on the elevator freeze.

We see people trying to inch away. Carl coughs again. They

hold their breath. The elevator stops at the next floor. All

the passengers get off.

INT. BANK HEADQUARTERS, EXECUTIVE OFFICES - DAY

Sam and Carl, laughing, walk through a large office area

bustling with activity. Employees, in various cubicles, are

talking on telephones and punching information into computers.

Sam heads into his executive office. Carl steps into a cubicle

across the aisle. ROSE, Sam's secretary, approaches him.

She points to a windowed conference room. Sam turns around

and sees a large group of JAPANESE MEN standing inside.

He hurries over to Carl's cubicle. He is on the phone. Carl

cups the mouthpiece.

Sam pulls out his wallet and extracts a small address book.

He jots the code numbers on a piece of paper and hands it to

Carl.

INT. WELL-APPOINTED EXECUTIVE BOARDROOM - DAY

Sam and a group of fifteen somber Japanese businessmen are

sitting around a large granite conference table. Sam stands

up and speaks a simple greeting to them.

The men smile happily and nod their heads in unison.

They look to Sam, expecting more. Uncomfortable, he clears

his throat.

A SECRETARY enters the room and hands Sam a piece of paper.

It reads "MOLLY ON LINE 2. URGENT." She hands him a phone.

Sam looks surprised. He nods apologetically to his guests.

MOLLY

dressed in a long, clay covered smock. She is in a potters

studio. SEVERAL OTHER POTTERS are in the background working

at their wheels. A five-foot high ceramic vase stands beside

Molly. It is still wet. She toys with it as she speaks into

the phone.

SAM

straight-faced, listening and trying to look as if it is

important.

The entire contingent of Japanese men is staring at Sam.

Sam squelches a smile.

He hangs up and stares at the Japanese men. A short smile

crosses his face.

A CARVED WOODEN ANGEL

eight feet tall, ascending into an afternoon sky. As the

CAMERA PULLS BACK we see that we are inside a building and

that the angel is dangling outside an open doorway high above

the street.

A group of workmen grab for the angel, but have difficulty

bringing it in. Suddenly Molly steps INTO the FRAME.

With a gutsy maneuver, Molly leans out over the sidewalk and

tries to grab hold of the ropes. She can't reach them.

Suddenly a pair of hands grabs her around the waist. She

screams.

Sam laughs as he pulls her back into the loft. She does not

think it is funny.

Sam jumps up, grabs hold of the door's top molding, and swings

out over the sidewalk. Molly gasps. Sam's feet push at the

angel and send it swinging away and then back toward the

loft. Quickly he jumps back, grabs hold of it, and brings it

in. The workmen applaud. Molly eyes him with admiration.

Suddenly we hear a voice call out.

Molly looks to Sam.

Carl enters, shakes Molly's hand, and pats Sam on the back.

Before they can answer, a WORKMAN turns to Molly.

INT. LOFT - DAY

As the angel pulls away from camera, we see the newly

decorated loft for the first time. It is painted now in lovely

pastels. The floor, a huge gymnasium-like expanse, is

lacquered with polyurethane. Furniture and boxes are piling

up along the walls. Dominating the space, with a kind of

surreal presence, are a large number of Molly's sculptures

and ceramics. There is also a vintage jukebox. Carl is

impressed.

A mover lugs in a heavy old chair. Molly sees it.

Sam pinches her ass. Molly smiles.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY - LATER

Sam, Molly, and Carl are sprawled out on the floor, eating

from Cartons of Chinese food. Frank, a gray cat, eats beside

them. Unpacked boxes are scattered everywhere.

The cat begins nibbling Sam's food.

Carl smiles.

She looks at Sam and grins. Carl is staring at Molly,

obviously turned on by her. He is embarrassed when she catches

his gaze and quickly looks away.

OMITTED

INT. MOLLY'S STUDIO - NIGHT

Molly, dressed only in a T-shirt, is sitting at her potters

wheel throwing a series of pots. Sam enters the studio. He

is barefoot, shirtless, wearing jeans.

She nods and presses her hands into a pot that is forming in

front of her. Sam watches the sensual movement of her fingers,

molding and forming the clay. She is forceful, assured,

gifted. The clay responds to her slightest effort. Slowly,

almost unconsciously, Sam reaches for her shoulders and begins

kissing them.

Sam reaches over her and gently adds his fingers to the clay.

Molly looks up at him.

His hands dig into the clay. Molly smiles. Their fingers

seem to dance together. After a moment, she reaches up to

him, her clay-covered fingers streaking his face and curving

down to his chest. Sam grins and reaches down to her.

SAM'S FINGER

as it presses two buttons on his jukebox. We watch as the

mechanical arm selects a record and slowly, sensuously, lowers

it to the turntable. The arm hovers over the record and then

descends. It begins to play. The song is "Unchained Melody"

by the Righteous Brothers.

SAM AND MOLLY

are dancing in the middle of the dark loft. Moonlight pours

through the windows and shines off the floor. Wads of packing

paper swirl sensuously around their feet.

Molly runs her fingers down Sam's naked back. The moment is

sweet and erotic. We watch as Sam slowly draws his fingers

down over Molly's face, gently caressing her forehead, her

eyes, her lips.

Sam slides his hands under Molly's T-shirt, slowly moving

them toward her breasts. Her breathing slows. They dance

silently, her hair swaying in the soft light.

We hear the sounds of their bare feet on the highly polished

floor.

Sensuously, Molly's shirt lifts above her navel as Sam presses

into her. Their stomachs touch and part and touch again. She

bites her lip. Sam eyes her moonlit form as she strokes his

chest, slowly moving her fingers down his torso, around the

curve of his hips, and then digging into the back of his

jeans.

Sam leans into Molly and nips at her neck. She stops dancing.

Her eyes close. She stands absolutely still. Sam's hands

move to her backside. He pulls her closer.

LIVINGROOM - NIGHT

SAM AND MOLLY, making love on the livingroom carpet. Paper

and packing materials crumble beneath them and scatter across

the floor. For all their sensuality, it is their hands and

eyes that are most expressive, revealing a tenderness that

is deeply moving. Their lovemaking is full of love.

JUKEBOX

The song ends. The jukebox arm retracts and gently slides

the record back into its slot.

OMITTED

BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sam and Molly are lying together silently. Molly gazes at

him.

Molly gently strokes his head.

He smiles and strokes her cheek.

Suddenly the T.V. blares into the room. Sam jumps up, grabbing

the remote control unit from under his buttocks. Molly laughs

as he turns the SOUND DOWN. The news is on and they are

showing the remains of an airline disaster. Sam stares at

the tube.

He motions to wait. Dead bodies litter the screen.

The T.V. goes OFF. Sam, confused, spins around. Molly is

holding the remote control. She nods for him to lie down.

Sam looks at her and then back at the screen.

EXT. WALL STREET ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY

OMITTED

INT. SAM'S OFFICE - DAY

Sam is sitting at his computer. His address book with his

access codes is sitting open beside him. He seems perplexed

by something happening on the screen. After pushing a series

of buttons and getting the same response, he whacks the

computer on the side. Carl, walking in the door, sees him.

Sam looks up sheepishly.

Carl winces. Sam smiles.

INT. SPRING STREET REPERTORY - NIGHT

Sam and Molly are sitting in the fifth row of a crowded

auditorium. He is sound asleep.

ANGLE STAGE

A scene from "Macbeth".

Sam begins to snore. Molly grabs his nose. He jerks awake.

Molly grins.

EXT. SPRING STREET REPERTORY - NIGHT

Bright marquee lights sparkle overhead as Sam and Molly exit

the theatre. It is a beautiful brisk night.

She smiles and squeezes his arm. They walk silently down a

dark street, heading toward their loft. The pavement is full

of shadows.

We can tell from the expression on Molly's face that it does.

Sam puts his arm around her. She nestles close to him. Then,

suddenly, she stops and looks up. There is an unexpected

seriousness in her voice.

There is a long pause.

Sam stops and stares at Molly. He pauses quietly. He is about

to speak when A MAN'S FACE emerges from the shadows behind

him. Molly gasps. Sam spins around.

AN INTENSE LOOKING MAN

is standing in the darkness between two buildings. He stares

at the couple for a moment and then steps onto the sidewalk.

Sam and Molly stand motionless. The man hesitates and then

begins walking the other way. Molly exhales a deep breath.

Sam takes Molly's arm and they continue briskly down the

street. Suddenly they hear FOOTSTEPS coming after them.

Sam stops abruptly and turns around. A gun is staring him in

the face. Molly screams.

Sam waits a beat.

Sam reaches for his jacket. The Mugger grabs his wrist and

then carefully pulls the wallet out himself.

He swipes Sam across the head. Molly screams. The Mugger

whacks her across the face. Sam explodes, plowing into the

mugger with all his might.

There is a wild, all out brawl. Sam fights like a mad man.

Suddenly the GUN goes off. The Mugger panics and takes off

running. Sam charges after him.

The two men run down the dark street, but the Mugger is

already a full block ahead and disappears into the shadows.

Sam gives up. Slowly he turns and begins walking back toward

Molly.

We can see Molly dimly at the end of the block as Sam

approaches. She is screaming for help. Frightened, Sam calls

out.

She doesn't answer. Sam tenses and starts running toward

her. He is just three feet away when suddenly he stops. An

expression of pure terror overwhelms his face.

CLOSEUP - MOLLY

drenched in blood. Her eyes are glazed, on the verge of shock.

Panting, she stoops down to the curb as THE CAMERA TRAVELS

WITH HER. She grabs hold of something lying in the shadows

and pulls it toward her.

It is Sam's dead body she is holding in her arms.

Sam's ghostly form, still solid to all appearances, stands

beside Molly. His eyes are awash in horror and confusion. He

seems unable to move. THE CAMERA HOLDS on his face as the

full impact of his situation dawns in his eyes.

Suddenly he lets out a blood-curdling scream.

He jumps down toward his body and reaches out to grab hold

of his motionless form. His hands make a strange SOUND as

they pass right though it. It is terrifying. Sam jumps up,

crazed, frenzied, and begins circling Molly. It is as though

he is trying to undo what has been done.

He reaches out to Molly for help. His hand cuts through her

shoulder. He screams.

FOOTSTEPS. People are running down the street. The sound of

SIRENS can be heard in the distance. Two MEN run toward Sam.

He yells out at them.

They run right through him. He gasps in stunned terror.

Sam watches helplessly as they reach his body. Molly looks

up and begins screaming hysterically. One of the Men grabs

her as the other goes for Sam's wrist. There is no sign of

life.

The first Man holds Molly back as his friend stoops down and

begins some form of cardio-pulmonary resuscitation. There is

no response. Sam bends down, trying desperately to help. It

is a futile gesture.

The Man bangs on Sam's chest. Blood gushes from the wound.

Molly recoils. He bangs again.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

Sam shoots up in bed, panting. It is dark. He stares around

the loft in sudden confusion. With a lurch he flicks on the

night light. Molly is lying beside him, her head buried

beneath a pillow. Sam seems stunned.

Tears stream down his face. Molly stirs.

Sam is so relieved to hear her voice that he can hardly

breathe.

Molly, groggy, tries to sit up. Sam reaches out for her.

As she turns around, we see A SKELETEL VERSION OF HER HEAD

staring at the camera. It speaks.

Sam bolts upright, screaming. It is a scream so consumed by

terror that one fears it will never stop.

CLOSE-UP OF SAM

asleep in bed. He is thrashing at his pillow and moaning.

Suddenly, a hand reaches out and touches his shoulder. Sam

jumps straight up in bed and kicks wildly at the sheets.

SAM'S P.O.V.

Molly is sitting on the bed looking at him, afraid.

Sam stares down at her. He is breathing heavily, not trusting

his own senses. His hands clutch at the wall.

ANGLE

Suddenly, a brilliant white light shoots into the room as a

host of glowing forms, radiating an intense inner light,

float before us. A blinding tunnel spirals in an infinite

vortex behind them. Sam is awed and confused. We sense that

the light is enchanting him. The entire room begins to

disappear in the light.

Molly screams.

ANGLE

Sam turns and sees Molly, only she is not in the bed. She is

back on the street. To his amazement, he is on the street,

too, still bathed in the soothing light. Frightened, he calls

out to her.

She does not hear him. He calls again.

There is no response. Sam, deeply troubled, hesitates for a

moment. He is torn between Molly and the light. Then, in a

painful, but conscious gesture, he turns from the light and

walks toward Molly. At that instant, the light behind him

disappears with the sound of a pneumatic door closing. There

is a sense of terrible finality as the tunnel evaporates

into the void. Sam is left on the dark pavement. He stands

there a moment, as if in shock, and then begins running toward

Molly. An AMBULANCE is rounding the corner.

OMITTED

EXT. NEW YORK STREETS - NIGHT

Swirls of light speed toward the ambulance as car headlights

and streetlamps merge in a wild dizzying rush. The SIREN

wails into the night.

INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT

Sam's body is lying in the back of the ambulance as a

PARAMEDIC applies electric paddles to his chest in an effort

to save him. After a moment, he looks up at Molly. We can

tell from the expression in his eyes that it is hopeless.

Sam yells.

Molly, kneeling over Sam's body, grabs him and begins to cry

in long terrible sobs.

INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

A DOCTOR, comforting Molly, accompanies her from one of the

emergency operating rooms and leads her through a pair of

swinging doors into a separate waiting area. We see TWO

POLICEMEN and TWO DETECTIVES stand up and approach her.

Sam doesn't want Molly to go and begins to follow her, but

then seems torn, afraid to leave his body. He turns back

just as his corpse, covered in a green sheet, is wheeled

into the corridor and parked alongside the wall. Sam seems

stunned and inconsolable as he sits down beside it.

A wrinkled OLD MAN approaches Sam and joins him on the bench.

He begins talking.

Sam is startled, amazed that the man can see him.

The man sticks his head into the green sheet covering Sam's

body. His head disappears. Sam is terrified.

Suddenly there is a loud COMMOTION and we see several

PHYSICIANS operating furiously on an Old Man lying on the

table beside them. It is a life threatening situation and

they seem to be failing.

ANGLE

Before Sam can understand what is happening the entire room

fills with a strange preternatural light. Suddenly he looks

up and freezes.

The amorphous forms he saw right after he died are floating

down through the ceiling and reaching for the body on the

operating table. They are emitting a powerful light.

The glowing forms take hold of the man's spirit and help

extract it from his body. His physical form changes instantly

from a solid object into an ethereal substance.

Sam stares in amazement as the strange beings carry the spirit

upward. They evaporate through the ceiling.

ANGLE

The light in the room grows dull instantly. Nurses cover the

dead man with a dark sheet as the doctors step away. Sam

turns to the Old Man.

The Man isn't there. An Orderly approaches the gurney with

Sam's body and begins pushing it toward the elevator. Sam

jumps in front of him.

SAM'S P.O.V.

as the stretcher begins to roll right through him. The

penetration of his physical space is horrifying to Sam. He

stands, almost paralyzed, as the body of the Orderly

intersects with his. It is a stunning moment of extraordinary

strangeness as we witness the atoms and molecules of the

Orderly's body passing through his. It is like a glimpse of

ultimate chaos, the universe within.

Then, in a flash, the Orderly has passed through, but Sam is

still shaking. He stares up at the ceiling.

SAM'S P.O.V.

as the ceiling lights and acoustical tiles begin to blur.

The hallway grows dark. It is as though Sam is blacking out.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Slowly, images begin to emerge out of the blackness. It takes

a moment to realize that they are scenes from Sam's funeral.

The CAMERA TRACKS along rows of mourners as seen from SAM'S

P.O.V. He seems to be floating among them. We hear snippets

of conversations. It all seems strangely odd and disjointed.

Time seems unfixed, malleable.

We see a MINISTER standing beside the grave.

The CAMERA KEEPS MOVING. Sam's associates from the bank are

among the mourners.

Sam notices a WOMAN in a fancy print dress comforting one of

the mourners. The woman looks up at him, smiles, and waves.

Sam is surprised. He looks behind him, but no one is there.

As he turns back, the woman is walking away. She appears

just like any normal person until she approaches a large

gravestone and passes right through it. Sam is shocked.

Suddenly, Molly ENTERS THE FRAME. Sam spots her. The CAMERA

STOPS.

She does not respond. RUTH, her sister, leans over to her.

Tears form in Molly's eyes. A hand reaches out to give her a

tissue. Molly looks up. It is Carl. She gives him her hand.

He squeezes it with affection.

The casket is lowered into the ground. Molly approaches the

grave. She us a little unsteady. Carl takes her elbow. A

shovel is placed in her hands. With great emotional effort

she lifts a shovelful of dirt and tosses it onto the casket.

It lands with a REVERBERATING finality. Sam shudders.

LONG SHOT - PEOPLE

leaving the cemetery. We hear them talking.

CLOSEUP - SAM

desperately alone. Down the hill, people are getting back

into their cars. Sam can see Molly being let into a limousine.

He stands there staring at his own casket, grieving. Then,

after a moment, he turns away. Separating from his body,

from his own grave site, he runs after her.

INT. LOFT - DAY

Molly is sitting on the couch in the middle of the loft

surrounded by FRIENDS and WELL WISHERS. A young GIRL, her

niece, cuddles in her lap. People are eating and milling

around. Slowly THE CAMERA BEGINS TO PAN. It ends on Sam,

standing alone in a corner. In the midst of all the activity

he is lost and alone.

ANGLE

Raw clay on a potter's wheel spins hypnotically, sensuously.

Molly's wet hands press in, shaping it, molding it. A bowl

begins to appear. The camera pulls back and reveals Sam. He

is sitting on the floor behind her, knees pressed to his

chest, rocking aimlessly.

Molly looks away from the bowl she is forming. It distorts

and bends. Angry, she digs her finger into it. The bowl

disintegrates. Tears form in her eyes.

Frank jumps up on the bench beside her. Molly stares sadly

around the room. Quietly, she begins talking to herself, to

the air.

Sam looks up.

Sam walks over to Molly. Desperate for contact, he reaches

out to touch her cheek, but then hesitates and pulls back.

He stares at her, hoping, wondering.

ANGLE

Suddenly, as if hearing Sam's voice, the cat begins to hiss.

Molly spins around. The cat scans the room. Unexpectedly,

Sam's and the cat's eyes meet... With a wild SCREECH, the

cat jumps from the bench and takes off running. Sam recoils.

Molly stands up.

The cat is nowhere to be seen. All of a sudden, Molly freezes.

Sam is standing right beside her. It is almost as though she

senses his presence.

She holds very still for a moment. Sam watches breathlessly,

loving her, wanting her. Then quietly, hopefully, he reaches

out. It is a useless gesture. In a moment of great poignancy,

Molly shakes her head and walks right through him. He remains

IN THE FRAME, alone.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Sam, stands in the corner of a large, walk-in closet, watching

as Molly goes through his effects. Boxes, scattered underfoot,

are filling up with his life's possessions. Molly reaches

for a shirt.

She tosses it into a box and then takes down a sweater. It

is obviously handmade, about four sizes too big. Sam

recognizes it.

Molly holds the sweater tenderly and presses it to her cheek.

After a moment she puts it back. Then, in a surprising

outburst, she cries out and begins flailing at the shelves.

Everything comes flying off. Sam reaches out to console her.

Unexpectedly, Carl comes rushing into the room. He takes

hold of Molly and sits her on the bed.

OMITTED

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Molly and Carl are standing over the kitchen table folding

piles of Sam's clothes and placing them into boxes. As Molly

lifts one of Sam's jackets, something falls from a side

pocket. It is his small black leather address book. Sam stares

at it with recognition. Carl sees the book fall and stoops

to pick it up but Molly gets it first.

She skims through it a moment, but the memories it evokes

are too powerful for her. She places it carefully into a box

labeled "Sam's Things -- Valuable" and continues packing.

She finds the old jar with the penny in it. It's marked "For

Luck". She holds it tenderly for a moment and then places it

on the nightstand beside the bed.

Carl discovers some old ticket stubs in another of Sam's

jackets. He examines them.

She takes the stubs and lovingly puts them in the box. Sam

groans.

Carl finds a half used package of Rolaids. Molly takes them

from his hand and puts them in the box, too.

Molly just stares for a moment.

Carl comes over and takes her hand.

Molly buries her head on his shoulder. Carl strokes her hair.

ANGLE

Carl lifting a pile of boxes and carrying them to the door.

Suddenly Molly yells out.

She hurries over and pulls the "Valuable" box from the stack

in his arms. He looks at it with surprise.

He turns to the door and then back to Molly.

Molly shakes her head and turns away.

Carl, annoyed, walks over to her.

Molly stops and looks at him. He has struck home. After a

moment she nods her head.

He gently squeezes her shoulders.

Before Sam even understands what is happening, they are

exiting the loft. Sam jumps up and runs after them.

ANGLE

The door slams shut. Sam is locked inside. Frightened and

desperate, he rushes for the door knob. His hand sinks through

it. There is a strange sound, like ELECTRICAL STATIC, as it

penetrates the metal and wood. Frightened, he yanks it back.

Sam circles the space several times and then returns to the

door. Clenching his teeth, he reaches out again. As his hand

pushes up against it, we sense that he experiences a subtle

resistance. The hairs on the back of his hand vibrate as his

ghostly form presses into it. We sense Sam's fear as his

entire arm DISAPPEARS FROM VIEW. The grating ELECTRICAL SOUND

shudders up his spine.

The sight of his amputated limb is unsettling but Sam does

not pull back. Slowly he edges in and presses his face into

the molecules of the wood.

SAM'S P.O.V.

as atoms and electrons spin past him at frightening speed.

There is a sense of a universe in total chaos. Terrifying

SOUNDS charge through his body.

SAM

pulling back from the door. He is trembling.

INT. LOFT - AN HOUR LATER

THE CAMERA MOVES SLOWLY THROUGH THE LOFT AND GRADUALLY

DISCOVERS SAM. He is sitting in a corner singing quietly to

himself.

He stops, realizing the last word of the song. He sits

silently, staring at the wall.

Suddenly, there is a SOUND at the door. Sam's eyes shoot up.

The door begins to open.

Sam stands up. His face begins to tighten. We know instantly

that something is wrong. His eyes fill with a fury we have

not seen before.

The Mugger, the man who killed Sam, is entering the loft. He

has a key in his hand and puts it in his pocket. Sam is

stunned. The Mugger locks the door.

ANGLE

Sam goes wild. He shoots at the man with all his might,

attacking him unceasingly, but with no effect. His hands and

feet pass right through him.

The Mugger, unaware that anything is going on, glances around

nervously as he moves through the vast space.

ANGLE

Entering the bedroom, the Mugger goes to the dresser and

quickly examines the drawers. He is very neat, careful to

leave no sign that he was there. He seems to be looking for

something but cannot find it.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Suddenly we hear a KEY TURNING in the front door. The Mugger

seems startled. He dashes from the bedroom and hides quickly

behind one of the large sculptures. We hear the door OPEN.

Molly is standing there.

Sam goes crazy.

Molly closes the door and locks it shut. Sam freezes as she

heads for the bedroom. She walks right past the Mugger. To

Sam's horror she stops and turns to look around. There is a

curious expression on her face. Seeing nothing she continues

through the loft.

The Mugger pulls out his gun. Sam looks on in absolute terror.

Molly's purple blouse hits the floor as she begins to remove

her clothes. She turns on the radio.

Sam doesn't know what to do. The Mugger seems excited by

Molly's semi-nudity. He begins skirting the edges of the

loft, moving toward the bedroom. Sam is crazed.

Suddenly, out of nowhere, Frank appears at the Mugger's feet.

Sam's eyes light up. He drops to his knees, crawls over to

him, glares into his eyes, and screams.

ANGLE - THE CAT

SCREECHES and jumps straight up. His claws shoot out at the

mugger's face, ripping into the flesh near his eye.

Blood appears. The mugger sees it dripping through his

fingers. The sight of it upsets him. He grabs the cat angrily

by the neck. It SQUEALS. Molly in her bra, peers from the

bedroom.

The Mugger holds the cat's mouth shut. Seeing and hearing

nothing, Molly steps back into the bedroom.

The Mugger takes the cat and throws it across the floor.

Holding his eye, he gets up and rushes for the exit. Sam

runs after him, but the door closes before he can get through.

He is left inside.

ANGLE - SAM

stares at the closed door in a wild panic. He doesn't know

what to do. Then, summoning all of his courage, he takes a

blind, running slow motion leap and charges through it.

SAM'S P.O.V.

There is a brief sense of passing through a molecular force

field, a miniature universe inside the door.

ANGLE - SAM

as he emerges from the door and lands on the other side. He

seems excited to have survived and is very pleased with

himself.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

The Mugger steps out onto the sidewalk and hurries toward

the subway. A patch of sleeve soaks up the blood from his

eye.

Sam starts after the man but instantly freezes. Hordes of

people crowd the sidewalk. The crush of humanity is

frightening. Two lovers, holding hands, are coming right at

him. Before Sam is able to move, we hear the sound of their

arms cutting through his ghostly form.

Sam tries instinctively to dodge the crowds but people

approach him from all angles.

We hear a BABY CARRIAGE roll through Sam's feet and he nearly

falls over trying to avoid it. His instincts will not let

go.

A barrage of images and SOUNDS assaults Sam. It is more than

he can handle. Still, he refuses to give up. He stays close

to the Mugger.

EXT. NEW YORK SUBWAY STATION - DAY

The Mugger heads down a flight of steps into the IRT.

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY

The Mugger gets onto a crowded subway car. Sam stands near a

corner of the train watching him.

Suddenly, Sam notices that something odd is happening. One

of the riders at the other end of the car is walking toward

him. As he approaches the Mugger, he does not stop, but passes

right through him. It takes Sam a moment to realize what is

happening, but then it is too late.

ANGLE - THE OTHER GHOST

With unholy fury the New Ghost charges into Sam. The attack

is so unexpected and ferocious that Sam has no sense of how

to defend himself. With unexpected power, the Ghost grabs

hold of him and slams him into the subway door. Sam's head

plows right through it.

ANGLE

on Sam's head sticking outside of the car as the subway tunnel

rushes past him. There is a panicked look on his face. The

look intensifies as he turns and sees another train barreling

down on him.

ANGLE

on Sam's body inside the car still struggling with the Ghost

as the other train shoots by the window. With a huge gasp,

Sam shoots back into the car, and wrests himself free of the

Ghost's hold. The Ghost flies after him, screeching.

Sam surges through the door at the end of the train and finds

himself on the bridge between the subway cars. The subway

Ghost stares at him through the window with a wild, insane

look.

ANGLE FAVORING WINDOW

With shocking impact, the Ghost's fist goes flying into the

window. To Sam's terror and amazement, the window SHATTERS.

The Ghost smiles. Passengers scream and Sam dives for cover.

Sam stares at the broken glass with fascination and confusion.

Suddenly, the train moves from the darkness of the tunnel

into broad daylight.

EXT. ELEVATED SUBWAY STATION - DAY

The train stops at an elevated subway platform in Brooklyn.

OMITTED

SAM'S P.O.V.

Sam sees the Mugger exiting the train and frantically rushes

after him.

EXT. BROOKLYN STREETS - DAY

Sam follows the Mugger down a long covered staircase to the

street.

EXT. 321 PROSPECT PLACE - DAY

The Mugger heads toward 321 Prospect Place. The streets are

lined with old apartment buildings. Many windows are boarded

up. TWO MEN, standing on the corner, are slamming a piece of

heavy machinery onto the pavement.

Sam hears GOSPEL MUSIC coming from a storefront church and

notices a sign, "SISTER ODA MAE BROWN, MEDIUM, SPIRIT READER,

ADVISOR." He looks up to a third story window and sees a

similar sign with day-glo arrows pointing to the entrance on

the street. He seems curious, but then realizes that the

Mugger is nearly halfway down the block. He turns and rushes

after him.

EXT. 321 PROSPECT PLACE - DAY

Sam and the mugger approach a tenement building at 321

Prospect Place.

INT. TENEMENT HALLWAY - DAY

Sam follows the Mugger into the building and watches as he

opens the mail box for APT. 4D. The name scribbled across it

is WILLIE LOPEZ. There's no mail.

INT. WILLIE'S APARTMENT - DAY

Sam enters Willie's apartment. It is a squalid affair. Peeled

paint chips litter the floor. The bed is unmade.

Willie pulls open a drawer in a small nightstand and drops

in the keys to Molly's loft. Sam sees his wallet. His driver's

license, bank ID, and a photo of Molly are there, too.

Furious, Sam lunges for Willie but then holds his punch,

knowing it will have no effect. He turns instead to a window

and, like the Ghost on the subway, smashes it with his fist.

Nothing happens.

Willie dials the phone. Someone comes on the line.

He hangs up. Sam stares at him in wild confusion.

Willie grabs a bottle of wine from the nightstand and lies

down. After a moment he reaches over and takes Molly's photo

from the drawer. He studies it slowly.

Sam stands by the door in a state of motionless rage. There

is nothing he can do.

EXT. BROOKLYN STREETS - DAY

Sam storms down the street. His movements seem undirected,

utterly aimless. He is seething inside.

Suddenly Sam looks up. An old BAG LADY is walking down the

street talking loudly to a SHORT WOMAN tagging along beside

her. As they approach a street pole, the Bag Lady swerves to

the side. The Short Woman, however, walks right through it.

Passersby laugh at the Old Lady talking to herself. Sam,

unsettled, rushes away.

As Sam rounds a corner, a sudden blast of MUSIC explodes out

of nowhere. Sam jumps into the street, gasping. A phonograph

needle SCRATCHES across a record and the MUSIC STOPS. A

woman's voice booms out:

PANNING SHOT

to a pair of loudspeakers in a storefront window. The MUSIC

blares out once more and SOUNDS of gospel fill the street.

Sam looks up. He is back in front of the storefront church

with the sign for SISTER ODA MAE BROWN, MEDIUM, SPIRIT READER,

ADVISOR, hanging overhead. Below it is another sign. "Contact

the dearly departed. $20.00".

Sam stares at the sign with curiosity. The MUSIC is

compelling. After a moment's hesitation, he goes in the open

door.

INT. STOREFRONT - DAY

A record player is sitting near the storefront window, a

makeshift microphone placed in front of it.

Several rows of folding chairs face a raised platform with

nothing on it. A number of people are sitting there, mostly

women. One gets the sense that this is a cross between a

waiting room and a meeting hall. A black WOMAN steps up on

the platform and calls out:

MRS. SANTIAGO tucks a Spanish paperback romance into her

purse and heads to a door at the rear of the hall. Sam follows

after her.

INT. SEANCE ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Santiago enters a dark room with a window and door

leading to a side street. A paisley bedspread is tacked over

the window.

In the center of the room is a round seance table. Two

heavyset sisters, CLARA (39), and LOUISE (36), are standing

beside an open closet. It is empty.

Mrs. Santiago sits at the table. She seems apprehensive.

Clara steps into the closet and taps on each of the walls as

though demonstrating that they are solid.

She steps back out and closes the door. Louise inserts a

tape into a boom box and then steps forward.

ANGLE FAVORING CLOSET

She turns back to the closet and opens the door. Like magic,

ODA MAE BROWN, 41, appears standing inside. She is a black

woman in a white tunic. The whiteness of her garment makes

it look as if she is glowing in the dark. Mrs. Santiago is

wide-eyed. Sam smiles as Oda Mae steps into the room.

She takes a twenty dollar bill from her purse and hands it

to Oda Mae. Clara graciously intercepts the money.

Tears well up in her eyes. She crosses herself several times.

Mrs. Santiago, utterly fascinated, nods understandingly.

Oda Mae's eyes glance up curiously for a second, as though

she heard something, and then she continues.

Sam steps back as the sisters get up and position themselves

behind Oda Mae. The moment feels rehearsed, theatrical. Oda

Mae raises her hands into the air and closes her eyes. There

is a hush in the room. Her body begins to tremble. Mrs.

Santiago clutches her chair. Suddenly Oda Mae breaks out of

her trance.

Oda Mae's eyes dart uncomfortably around the room.

Oda Mae jumps up and stares at her sisters. They look back

at her curiously. They can't figure out what's wrong. Neither

can Oda Mae.

Mrs. Santiago reaches into her purse. A twenty dollar bill

changes hands. Sam watches, amazed at it all. Oda Mae sits

down and goes back into her trance. Her eyeballs roll up

into their sockets.

Oda Mae is beginning to shake again. The two women grab her

shoulders to keep her from falling out of the chair. Suddenly

her whole body stiffens.

Mrs. Santiago stares on in amazement. After a moment Oda

Mae's body collapses in a heap. Then, like a phoenix rising

from the ashes, she pulls herself up in her chair and assumes

a normal pose.

After several seconds to get her bearings, Oda Mae begins to

speak. Only now she has an entirely new voice. It sounds

deep and hoarse, like an old man's. For all its put on

theatricality, it is strangely convincing.

Oda Mae jerks. Her eyes dart nervously around the room.

Sam looks on dismayed.

Mrs. Santiago begins to cry. Sam looks around the room with

growing disgust. Then he leans over to Oda Mae and yells

into her ear.

Oda Mae nearly falls off her chair. She spins around.

Sam is stunned. Clara and Louise look at one another in total

confusion. This is obviously not part of the act. Mrs.

Santiago seems frightened.

Oda Mae screams and jumps up thrashing at the air. Her knee

kicks the table and sends it toppling. Mrs. Santiago is

terrified.

Mrs. Santiago doesn't know what to do. She begins to cry.

Clara runs up to Oda Mae.

Louise looks at the empty room.

Clara just stares at her sister. Sam is excited and amazed.

Sam nearly falls on his face. Clara's eyes widen. She is

more confused than ever.

Oda Mae runs into the closet.

It has a false panel leading to a hidden chamber on the left

side and she barricades herself inside it. Clara and Louise

stand outside pulling on the handle. They seem frightened.

INT. CLOSET - DAY

Oda Mae is rocking back and forth on the floor praying. Sam's

feet enter the frame beside her.

Oda Mae screams, jumps back into the closet, and bolts up

against the door. It tears from its hinges and falls into

the seance room, nearly crushing Louise. Mrs. Santiago runs

out screaming. Oda Mae takes one look around and collapses

in a dead faint.

OMITTED

INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - DAY

Beads of sweat collect on Oda Mae's brow and cheeks. She

seems feverish. Clara and Louise are sitting beside her with

damp towels nervously soaking up the perspiration. Oda Mae

appears to be talking to herself until we PULL BACK and reveal

Sam nearby.

Clara and Louise look at one another with growing concern.

Louise looks at her sister and shakes her head.

Oda Mae gulps, a horrified expression on her face.

INT. LOFT - DAY

The telephone rings. Molly, preparing dinner, runs to answer

it.

Molly slams down the receiver, panting. For several seconds

she doesn't move. Slowly, she walks to the couch and sits

down. She is trembling.

INT. ODA MAE'S KITCHEN - DAY

Oda Mae hangs up the phone.

INT. ODA MAE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sam is sitting on the edge of Oda Mae's bed, singing. It

sounds like he's been singing for hours. He is very hoarse.

Oda Mae bolts upright in her bed, her hands over her ears.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY BUS - ESTABLISHING SHOT - DAY

INT. BUS - DAY

Sam and Oda Mae are sitting at the rear of a crowded bus.

She appears to be talking to herself.

Several people move away.

OMITTED

EXT. LOFT BUILDING - DAY

Oda Mae approaches the loft building and buzzes Molly's

apartment. She waits a few moments.

Oda Mae turns to leave. Sam, desperate, starts to sing.

Oda Mae stops. She turns back to the buzzer and rings once

more. Suddenly Molly answers.

There is a CLICK as Molly hangs up.

INT. LOFT - DAY

Molly walks away from the intercom, shaken. Suddenly we hear

Oda Mae yelling up from the street.

Molly walks over to the window and looks down. Oda Mae is

standing in the street looking up. She is calling out at the

top of her lungs. Molly pulls back. She is afraid.

Molly tenses. There is a sign of recognition in her eyes.

EXT. TRIBECA STREET - DAY

Oda Mae is standing by the curb and shouting up to Molly's

fifth floor window. Several people stare at her curiously.

She turns to them.

The people turn away. She turns back to the window. Sam

prompts her.

A WORKMAN peers out of a second story window.

Oda Mae is about to walk away when the entrance door opens.

Molly steps outside. Oda Mae sees her and stops.

INT. SOHO LUNCHEONETTE - DAY

Molly and Oda Mae are sitting in a booth staring at one

another.

Molly's hand jumps. Oda Mae looks at her. There is a long,

poignant moment. Sam chokes up.

Molly starts, an expression of true astonishment shining in

her eyes.

INT. LOFT - DAY

Molly is pressed up against the edge of the couch listening

nervously as Oda Mae speaks. Sam wanders around the room,

anxiously.

They both say "yes" at the same time.

Molly stares at Oda Mae.

She stands up, as if to leave. Molly watches with growing

discomfort as Oda Mae seems to be talking to herself.

Oda Mae heads for the door. Molly is confused.

Oda Mae stops, pauses a moment, and walks back to the couch.

Sam, relieved, paces back and forth.

Oda Mae's eyes follow his voice as Molly watches her

curiously.

Molly looks concerned. Sam leans into Oda Mae.

Molly grows pale as she listens. Her forehead tightens.

Oda Mae takes a card from her purse and grabs a pencil.

Oda Mae seems perplexed as she writes it down and gives it

to Molly.

Molly stands up, afraid. Oda Mae stands up, too.

Oda Mae heads for the door as Molly watches in a daze.

She lets herself out. Sam just stands there as the door slams

shut.

OMITTED

INT. KITCHEN - THAT NIGHT

Carl is pacing nervously. He seems very upset. After a moment

he approaches Molly. Sam is behind her.

Carl sits down beside her.

Sam smiles. Carl stands up. His voice begins to rise.

Molly looks suddenly vulnerable.

Molly looks at Carl, annoyed. She doesn't believe him for a

second.

INT. CARL'S CAR - NIGHT

Carl, in his red Ford Mustang, is speeding up town. Sam is

beside him in the front seat.

INT. WILLIE'S BUILDING - NIGHT

Carl steps into the lobby of Willie's building. Sam follows,

wide-eyed. He seems both intrigued and astounded by what

Carl is doing. When Carl stops to read the apartment number

on Willie's mail box, Sam is thrilled.

Carl climbs the stairs two at a time and approaches Willie's

door. He bangs on it, loudly.

ANGLE - THE DOOR

opens a crack as Willie peers out. Carl pushes it hard and

it opens the rest of the way. Willie steps back.

Sam freezes as Willie addresses Carl by name. He can barely

move.

Sam is staggered. His body is shaking.

Carl is fuming.

Willie goes to the desk drawer and takes out Sam's key. Sam,

unable to control himself, explodes in a fit of rage. Hauling

back, he slugs Carl with all his might. His fist has no

impact.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Carl is on the street heading back to his car. Sam is beside

him, yelling right into his face.

He is screaming and cursing at the top of his lungs but Carl

doesn't hear him.

From the distance, we see Sam smashing into Carl. It is like

hitting the air. For all of his rage and bluster, there is

nothing he can do.

EXT. LOFT BUILDING - DAY

Molly, neatly dressed, exits her building and hails a cab.

She hops inside. Seconds later she hops out again, yelling.

The driver speeds off. Molly gives him the finger.

EXT. BROOKLYN STREETS - ELEVATED TRAIN - DAY

Molly exits a subway station and walks toward 131st Street.

She is the only white woman on the block and heads turn as

she passes.

Molly pays no attention. Children run up to her, stare, and

run away.

TRACKING SHOT

When Molly turns down 131st Street, the crowds disperse and

she is all alone. There is a sense of menace in the air. A

group of young men sitting on a stoop watches as she walks

by. One of them whistles. Molly keeps walking.

EXT./INT. WILLIE'S BUILDING

Molly sees Willie's building. She walks into the dank lobby.

It is dark and full of shadows. Leaning close, she examines

the mail boxes. Willie's name is there. She backs away,

afraid.

INT. LIVINGROOM - DAY

A dresser drawer opens and a box labeled "Sam's Things --

Valuable" is slowly pulled out. A hand reaches inside it and

extracts Sam's address book. As THE CAMERA PULLS BACK, we

see that it is Carl standing in Molly and Sam's livingroom.

Carl opens the book and quickly jots down a series of code

numbers he finds in the back. His eyes sparkle with

excitement.

INT. POLICE STATION - DETECTIVE'S OFFICE - DAY

Molly is sitting in a room opposite DETECTIVE SERGEANT THOMAS

BEIDERMAN, 48, and SERGEANT DOROTHY WALLACE, 29. Both officers

are staring at her as she speaks. She seems very

uncomfortable.

The officers don't respond.

There is dead silence.

She leaves the room. Molly gives her a dirty look and turns

to Beiderman.

Sgt. Beiderman gets up and looks over to Molly.

He heads out of the room. Molly sits back with an air of

enormous relief and gratitude. Sergeant Wallace comes into

the room again and picks up a folder. Molly waits nervously.

After a moment Sergeant Beiderman returns with a police file

in his hands. Molly looks up at him, and then smiles at

Wallace as she sees it. She feels vindicated. He lays the

thick folder on the desk and opens it up. She hurries over

to him.

MUG SHOTS OF ODA MAE

and reams of police paperwork. WIDEN as Molly stares at it

all in sudden shock.

CUT BACK AND FORTH between the records and Molly's stunned

reaction. We see recent photos of Oda Mae and others going

back to her youth. They are fascinating and revealing. We

even see photos of her mother and grandmother. In addition,

there are pages of arrest records and prison files.

Molly is overwhelmed by the evidence.

Molly turns away.

Molly's eyes widen.

Molly begins to cry.

Molly shakes her head no. Sgt. Beiderman closes the file.

Molly sits for a long time. She is in terrible pain.

Sgt. Beiderman nods his head compassionately and then turns

away.

INT. BEDROOM - LATE AFTERNOON (THE SAME DAY)

Molly is sitting in her bedroom. The glow of the late

afternoon sunlight casts long shadows across the bed. She

seems deeply depressed and alone. Gradually her gaze falls

on a jar sitting on the nightstand. In it is the penny Sam

found when they were first working on the loft. A label on

the jar says, "For Luck!" In a moment of sudden rage, she

picks it up and throws it against the wall. It SHATTERS on

the floor.

INT. CARL'S OFFICE - NIGHT

The code from Sam's address book, jotted on a piece of paper,

is sitting beside Carl.

Anxiously, Carl punches the code into a computer and,

suddenly, Sam's old accounts appear on the screen. A look of

relief wafts across Carl's face.

Carl is staring at the same accounts Sam was examining the

afternoon before he was killed, the accounts with too much

money in them.

Carl picks up the phone and punches a number. Someone answers.

A VOICE on the other end begins to speak.

Carl writes it all down.

Carl hangs up. He seems deeply relieved.

REVEAL SAM

He is standing in front of Carl, watching. Quickly, Carl

begins punching commands into the computer. He is setting up

the dummy account. Rita Miller, #926-31043.

INT. LOFT - THE SAME NIGHT

Molly, in a short terrycloth robe, is sitting in a chair. A

magazine is on her lap but she is staring vacantly into the

loft. She seems lost in the vast space. Sam is pacing back

and forth. There is a melancholy look in his eyes.

Suddenly the BELL rings. Molly jumps.

Molly's finger is on the intercom. She seems unsettled.

Sam freezes. Molly is surprised. She hesitates a moment and

then pushes the buzzer to let him in. We hear Carl bounding

up the stairs.

There is a KNOCK. Molly opens the door. Carl seems buoyant,

almost celebratory. He has a bag of fruit in his hand. He is

still in a suit and tie.

OMITTED

INT. LIVINGROOM - NIGHT

Carl, in shirt sleeves and Molly in her robe, are sitting on

the couch drinking coffee. We notice that Carl is wearing

yellow suspenders. Sam is beside himself, watching them.

Molly reaches out and pats his arm. There is an awkward pause.

Sam looks at her, amazed. Carl, on the other hand, stiffens.

He laughs nervously.

Sam is devastated.

Molly holds back tears. Carl reaches out tenderly and strokes

her hair.

Carl glides his hand slowly, lovingly across her cheek.

Almost imperceptibly, his hand moves down to the nape of her

neck. As she moves, her robe opens slightly. Carl notices,

glimpsing her nakedness beneath it. Sam notices, too. He

freezes.

Molly can barely contain her tears. Carl moves toward her

moist cheeks and kisses them gently. Slowly, he guides his

lips to her neck and kisses it, too. It is all hateful and

sensual at the same time. Sam turns away.

Molly feels Carl's tenderness, needs it. She does not notice

his hand reaching for the cord on her robe and slowly pulling

it toward him. With a little tug the cord unravels and the

robe falls open. Molly is confused, aroused, not sure what

to do. She starts to pull it closed. He holds her hand. For

a moment they do nothing. Then his fingers reach for her

thigh. Her body quivers. Carl feels her openness and pulls

closer, his hand rising gently up her naked body.

Molly's eyes close. She says nothing.

OMITTED

ANGLE

Sam charges wildly at the couch and begins flailing

uncontrollably at the two of them. Unexpectedly his foot

kicks out and hits a framed photograph of him and Molly that's

sitting on an end table. The picture CRASHES to the floor,

the glass SHATTERING.

Molly jumps up, the mood suddenly broken. She sees the photo

and recoils. Carl reaches for her. She backs away.

Sam is stunned by what has happened. He jumps up and tries

kicking over another picture but nothing moves. His foot

goes right through it.

Molly looks at Carl, drying her tears.

She reaches out and takes his hand.

Molly hesitates a moment and then nods her head "yes". Carl

smiles.

INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT

Sam rushes madly down a flight of stairs into a subway

station. A train is just leaving. He jumps on board.

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Sam begins quickly casing the aisles, looking for something.

It is not there. Another train can be seen speeding past the

window. Sam takes a running leap and jumps onto it, passing

through the walls.

OMITTED

ANGLE - SAM

disappointed. Suddenly, an express train passes alongside

his local. Sam sticks his face inside it. Suddenly, he smiles

and rushes onto it.

ANGLE

Sam does not have to stand there long. Within seconds, the

terrifying Ghost he had seen before comes charging at him.

We notice him more clearly now. He is wearing a dark blue

pea coat. There is a grizzled look about him. He has stained

teeth and seems perpetually unshaven.

This time Sam does not back away. He holds his ground. The

Ghost lets fire every trick in his arsenal. Posters come

flying off the walls. A bag of groceries topples from a

woman's arms, an old man's cane flies across the aisle, a

boy's Mets cap flips off his head. People on the train move

quickly to other cars.

Unable to frighten him, the Ghost kicks Sam in the stomach.

Sam recoils, feeling it, but gets back up again. He is angry

now. He begins raging at the other Ghost. The Ghost is

shocked.

The Ghost, exhausted, looks up at him and smiles with

appreciation.

Sam nods in agreement.

SAM AND THE GHOST

sitting in the corner of a deserted subway station. Sam is

trying desperately to push a bottle cap with his finger.

The Ghost demonstrates, kicking a garbage pail onto its side.

Sam can't quite tell how he did it.

With surprising energy, the Ghost flicks a bottle cap and

sends it shooting across the subway platform.

He kicks a Coke can toward Sam. Sam tries to kick it back

and misses. The Ghost laughs. Sam gets angry. He tries again

and falls on his head. The Ghost laughs louder. Now Sam is

really angry. We see him forcing the anger down into his

stomach. He holds still for a moment and then kicks at the

can with all his might. To his shock and amazement, it sails

right through the Ghost's head. The Ghost smiles.

SAM

practicing. He smashes at an abandoned tennis shoe with his

fist. Nothing happens.

Sam's stomach bulges. He tries again. Nothing.

Undaunted, Sam tries once more. This time the tennis shoe

moves. The Ghost nods his head approvingly. Sam is thrilled.

Venom spews from the Ghost's mouth. Suddenly he rams a

cigarette machine full force with his head. The glass SHATTERS

and packs of cigarettes scatter everywhere. He throws himself

on top of them with terrible longing.

He rolls and wallows in terrible frustration, tossing the

cigarettes in all directions. Suddenly he looks up and sees

Sam. He is unable to control his fury.

AN EXPRESS TRAIN

is shooting through the station. The Ghost throws himself

into it and in an instant he is gone.

OMITTED

INT. SUBWAY STATION - NIGHT

Sam, all alone, walks through the station. Suddenly, he

reaches out and pushes a garbage can lid. It swings back and

forth. He is delighted. A beer can is sitting on a bench. He

pushes it off, watching it roll across the platform with

childlike glee.

Looking up, Sam sees an advertisement for Market Security

Bank and Trust. He stares at it with great interest. "Special

Banking for Special People. We make it easy for you."

Something registers in Sam's eyes. He yells and jumps straight

up, hitting a subway sign with his finger. With great

excitement, he runs for the stairs and rushes from the

station.

OMITTED

INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT

ORTISHA JONES, a black woman with brassy red hair, is sitting

at Oda Mae's seance table surrounded by several of her

relatives. Clara and Louise stand behind Oda Mae helping

with the ritual. Oda Mae goes into her trance.

ANGLE

A GROUP OF GHOSTS is milling behind Oda Mae. Sam comes barging

into the room and looks at them in amazement.

Oda Mae, startled, jumps up in her chair. Everyone else jumps,

too. Clara and Louise look worried.

Ortisha and her relatives look up, confused.

One of the GHOSTS standing in the background butts in.

Ortisha looks at Oda Mae. She has no idea what's going on.

Ortisha is totally confused. Oda Mae turns back to her.

ANGLE

Oda Mae and everyone in the room gets very quiet. One of the

ghosts draws close. Oda Mae's eyes roll up into her head.

Then, suddenly, an extraordinary thing occurs. We see the

spirit pull back and dive right into Oda Mae. Oda Mae gulps.

Her nostrils flare. Her eyes bulge.

Oda Mae's body goes into bizarre convulsions as the Ghost

tries to move inside her. She looks strangely stuffed and

enormously uncomfortable.

Sam and the others watch in astonishment as she tries to

speak, but nothing comes out.

Then suddenly the GHOST speaks through Oda Mae.

Ortisha and her relatives jump up in amazement.

Orlando suddenly zeros in on Ortisha. His eyes widen.

Ortisha smiles excitedly.

Suddenly Oda Mae's body begins to shake wildly and her voice

booms out, screaming with all her might.

With frightening speed, she sends the spirit catapulting out

of her body. Clara and Louise jump up. Oda Mae is shaking.

ANGLE ORLANDO

He is lying on the floor, exhausted.

Ortisha looks around the room, befuddled. Clara and Louise

aren't sure what to do.

Ortisha and her relatives scurry out fast. The ghosts, too,

begin passing through the wall. Oda Mae lays her head on the

table. Suddenly her whole body begins heaving. She is starting

to cry. Sam is surprised.

Sam hesitates a moment and then respectfully follows the

others through the wall.

OMITTED

INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT

Clara knocks on the seance room door and peeks in.

Willie pushes his way into the room. Clara isn't sure what

to do. Oda Mae looks up. She does not know him.

Oda Mae stares at him curiously.

He sits down across from Oda Mae and shows no signs of

leaving. Oda Mae observes him quietly for a moment.

Oda Mae glares at him.

ANGLE - ODA MAE

confused and uncomfortable. Sam comes wandering back into

the room. His eyes bulge.

Willie sits straight up in his chair, amazed.

With a sudden thrust, Oda Mae sends her foot shooting into

Willie's balls. As he recoils she knocks the table into his

lap and rushes for the closet. We see her barricade herself

in the hidden chamber.

Willie, shaking, scrambles to his feet and, before Sam can

stop him, BLASTS his gun at the closet door. It is riddled

with bullets. Sam screams out. Willie runs to the side door

and escapes to the street. Clara and Louise come rushing in.

Sam charges into the closet and sees that Oda Mae is safe

behind the false door. Then he hurries to the street.

OMITTED

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Sam rushes to the sidewalk and looks in all directions. Willie

is nowhere to be seen. He hurries back to Oda Mae.

OMITTED

INT. SEANCE ROOM - NIGHT

The room is a disaster area, full of hysterical women. Oda

Mae is being dragged from the closet, unhurt but in a state

of shock.

No one answers.

Her sisters start talking but she shoos them away.

EXT. NEW YORK STREET - DAY

Oda Mae, dressed to the hilt, is walking with Sam toward the

main branch of Market Security Bank & Trust. She seems nervous

and upset.

As they reach the entrance of the bank, they pass a pair of

NUNS collecting money to build a shelter for the homeless.

One of them holds out a collection box. Oda Mae passes her

by, carefully avoiding eye contact.

INT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - DAY

Oda Mae enters Sam's bank. She seems completely out of place.

Sam, walking beside her, directs her every move.

Oda Mae approaches the New Accounts desk. She seems very

uptight. A woman OFFICER behind the desk looks up at her.

The Officer checks out the name and account number on her

computer screen. It all seems to jive. She pulls out a card

from her desk and hands it to Oda Mae. Oda Mae stares at it.

Oda Mae nods and starts to sign "Oda Mae". Sam stops her.

Sam hits his forehead with his hand. The Officer gives her

another card. Oda Mae signs it.

Oda Mae, delighted, walks away smiling and gives the officer

a wave. She is loving this.

INT. CARL'S OFFICE

The clock on Carl's wall says 3:40. He seems anxious. The

phone RINGS. Carl jumps. He pushes down the speaker button.

He hangs up. His hand is shaking.

INT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - DAY

Sam and Oda Mae approach a fancy part of the bank housing

administrative personnel. They approach a GUARD who is

standing there.

She waves him on.

We see the Guard leaning over Mr. Furgeson's desk. FURGESON

looks up and sees Oda Mae. He shrugs his shoulders.

The Guard comes back.

Sam pokes her. She yelps, surprised, and glances around. The

Guard gives her an odd look.

She forces a smile. He smiles back and then goes over to Mr.

Furgeson.

The Guard whispers in Furgeson's ear. Furgeson appears totally

flummoxed. He looks up at Oda Mae, embarrassed, and waves.

The Guard motions her to come back. She walks proudly over

to his desk. He sticks out his hand.

She looks up into the air. Furgeson eyes her strangely.

He punches Rita Miller's number into the computer. A figure

appears on the screen. He stares at it for a few seconds and

then punches it in again.

Oda Mae reaches into her purse and pulls out a DRIVER'S

LICENSE and a SOCIAL SECURITY CARD. Furgeson gets up and

walks away from his desk. He seems unsteady on his feet. An

OFFICER at the next desk is using a Brillo pad to clean a

stain on her desk. Oda Mae smiles.

The Officer nods appreciatively.

INT. CARD FILE ROOM - DAY

Furgeson lays Oda Mae's ID next to her signature card. The

signatures match up. He nods his head in approval.

INT. CARL'S OFFICE - DAY

Carl looks up at the clock. It is 3:50. He pushes down a

button on the phone. A SECRETARY answers.

INT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - DAY

Mr. Furgeson returns with Rita Miller's signature card and a

cashier's check for $4,000,000. Oda Mae's hand shakes as she

examines it.

Sam looks up and gulps. Molly has just entered the bank and

is heading toward them. He jumps up nervously.

Oda Mae signs a form closing the account. Of course the

signatures match. Mr. Furgeson examines them both and smiles.

He shakes Oda Mae's hand.

Sam rushes over to Molly. He is not sure what to do. He

notices a stack of deposit forms on the counter she is about

to pass. He hurries to it and flicks the entire stack, a

hundred sheets, flying up into the air. Molly, confused,

thinks she is responsible and stoops to pick them up. Sam,

delighted, flicks another stack.

Oda Mae is talking a blue streak when Sam returns to her.

Oda Mae smiles and leaves. There is a new lilt in her walk.

Suddenly Sam looks and sees Molly about to stand up.

At that second, Oda Mae spots a quarter lying on the ground.

She stoops down and picks it up.

Molly sees her, does a double take, and starts to go after

her. Unfortunately, Oda Mae steps onto an elevator before

Molly can catch up. The doors close. Molly stops for a moment

and then looks back across to the executive area. She sees

Lionel Furgeson and hurries over to him.

He is surprised to see her and grows instantly solicitous.

Molly stares at Furgeson. She is not sure what to think.

She walks away, confused.

INT. CARL'S OFFICE - DAY

Carl, in front of his computer, is going crazy. He keeps

punching buttons on the keyboard but the same response appears

over and over on the screen. "RITA MILLER, #926-31043. ACCOUNT

CLOSED. BALANCE $00.00."

Panicked, Carl jumps up. He moves quickly, erratically around

the office and then back to the computer. He punches the

keys over and over. The same answer appears on the screen.

The account is closed.

HALL OUTSIDE CARL'S OFFICE

Carl runs through the office. He seems crazed. People look

at him.

Carl freezes. He doesn't answer.

EXT. MARKET SECURITY BANK & TRUST - DAY

Sam and Oda Mae are walking down the street in front of the

bank. Oda Mae is talking to herself.

She stops. There is a nervous look on her face.

Oda Mae, worried, removes the check but holds onto it tightly.

Oda Mae looks at the nuns collecting money for the homeless.

She recoils.

Oda Mae growls at him.

With great difficulty, she approaches the nuns.

The nuns look at her with curiosity and compassion.

With great hesitation, Oda Mae begins to write. We sense

that every word is a torment for her. The nuns politely avert

their eyes from the check.

Oda Mae gives her a dirty look and hands the check over.

She turns on her high heels and wobbles away. Sam calls after

her.

She growls again. In the background we see the nuns secretly

peeking at the check. One of them, wide-eyed, faints dead

away. The other nun stoops down and fans her face in an

attempt to revive her.

INT. CARL'S OFFICE - NIGHT

It is after hours. Almost everyone on the floor has gone.

Carl, hunched over his computer, is typing furious commands

on the keyboard. He looks haggard and worn.

Sequence after sequence of coded numbers flash past on the

monitor screen. Sam, sitting in a desk chair, watches,

smiling.

In a moment of childish delight, he pushes his feet against

the wall and the chair shoots across the room. Carl looks up

and sees an empty chair moving. He stares at it in confusion,

and then goes back to the screen. He seems desperate. Nothing

is working.

Panicked and frightened, Carl flicks off the machine and

storms furiously around the room. Sam approaches the computer,

hesitates a moment, and then pushes the power switch. The

computer CLICKS back on. Carl spins around. He stares at the

computer curiously for a moment and then turns it back off.

Sam, enjoying this, reaches for the switch and FLICKS it

back on again. Carl stares at it.

Carl watches as the keys seem to depress themselves and

letters begin appearing on the screen. He sits down,

mesmerized by what is happening. Then his face grows tense.

The word "M-U-R-D-E-R-E-R" is emerging before him.

Carl flies out of his chair, frantically running around to

see who else is on the floor. He yells out like a madman.

There is no one there. He hears the computer beginning to

type again and hurries back to look at the screen. One word

appears. "S-A-M".

Carl gasps and smashes the computer with his fist. It crashes

to the floor. Electrical sparks go flying as Carl gasps for

breath.

Sam cannot hold himself back any longer. With a horrifying

scream, he charges at Carl, jamming his fist hard into his

ribs.

Carl grabs his side.

He hits Carl again. Carl gasps in inexplicable pain.

Sam keeps hitting deeper into Carl's mid-section. Carl doubles

over as though he's going to throw up.

Sam is flushed with excitement. Carl kneels beside his desk.

He cannot understand what is happening to him. His face goes

stark white as the attack continues.

Then, unexpectedly, the assault stops. Sam, exhausted, stares

hatefully at his old friend cowering on the floor. Slowly

and dizzily, Carl gets up. He looks fearfully around the

office and then, holding his stomach, hurries from the room.

INT. LOFT - THE SAME NIGHT

Molly, all dressed to go out, is sitting in Sam's easy chair,

asleep. Suddenly Carl arrives knocking at her door. He does

not look well. Sam is with him.

Molly eyes Carl with concern as he enters the loft.

Sam tenses. He holds up his hand as if wanting her to stop.

Carl turns white. His eyes bulge. He feels sick.

Concerned, she hurries from the room. Sam digs his hands

into Carl's back. Carl jerks forward in intense pain and

begins flailing at the air.

INT. KITCHEN

Sam does not go away. Freaked, Carl runs into the kitchen

and rushes to the stove. Quickly he turns on the gas. He

looks crazed. Turning to the air, he begins whispering loudly.

Sam jabs at the knob on the stove and begins to turn it off.

Carl sees it move. Shocked and frightened, he grabs it and

pulls it off, leaving only the tiny stem in place.

Sam, frightened, tries with all his might but he cannot twist

it. Carl pulls out a cigarette lighter and gloats.

Sam rushes at Carl about to jam his full fist into his chest,

but then he stops, afraid. He pulls back, shaken. Carl stands

there waiting for a blow that doesn't come. He begins to

gloat.

Sam freezes. Molly enters the kitchen. She grabs her nose.

Carl acts as if that's the reason he came into the kitchen.

He fiddles with the dials and turns it off.

She opens a window.

Molly is speechless.

OMITTED

INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - NIGHT

Oda Mae is watching T.V. with Clara and Louise. Suddenly she

jumps, aware of Sam's presence in the room.

Clara and Louise jump, too.

EXT. STREET

A red Mustang SCREECHES to a stop on the street below. Sam

and Oda Mae run to the window. Carl and Willie are looking

up.

INT. LIVINGROOM

EXT. ODA MAE'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Willie and Carl jump out of the car. They head for Oda Mae's

building.

INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - NIGHT

Sam steps back from the window.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Willie forces open a back door. They head into the building.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Oda Mae and the others hurry into the hall. They rush down

the corridor and knock loudly on a neighbor's door. A WOMAN

opens it a crack.

The Woman slams the door and locks it shut. Oda Mae looks

frightened.

INT. APARTMENT STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Carl and Willie climb the stairs two at a time.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - NIGHT

Oda Mae and her sisters bang on another apartment door. No

one is home. Across the corridor an ELDERLY WOMAN sticks her

head out to see what is going on. Before she can say anything

they push their way inside.

Oda Mae grabs the woman's mouth.

INT. HALLWAY - FISHEYE LENS VIEW

just as Willie and Carl emerge from the stairwell. They head

down the hall toward Oda Mae's door. Willie pulls out a gun,

and fires. The lock shoots open. They rush inside.

ODA MAE

in the elderly woman's vestibule, peering through the

peephole. The old woman is struggling and still trying to

talk. Oda Mae's knees are wobbling.

INT. ODA MAE'S LIVINGROOM - NIGHT

Willie moves quickly through Oda Mae's apartment, his gun

pointed, ready to fire. He seems furious when he realizes no

one is there.

ANGLE

He rushes back out and down the stairs. Willie stays in the

apartment. Suddenly, the doorbell RINGS. Willie rushes over

and opens the door a crack. There is no one there. Confused,

he backs away. The doorbell rings again. Completely mystified,

he aims his gun and opens the door all the way. The hallway

is empty.

As Willie stands there, wondering what is happening, Sam

steps inside and pushes the door closed. It slams shut. Willie

nearly jumps out of his skin.

He stares at the door in total bewilderment. At that instant,

a collection of picture frames flies off the breakfront and

crashes into his legs. He backs away, spooked.

Suddenly, the T.V. flicks ON at full volume and then the

STEREO and the RADIO. Lights begin flashing on and off. Willie

spins around in total dismay.

Summoning all of his force, Sam slams into Willie. Willie

recoils in unexplainable pain. He seems very disoriented.

His gun falls to the floor. He reaches for it and Sam pushes

it away. Willie jumps up, afraid. His eyes dart around the

room. Sam laughs.

ANGLE

A pair of candle holders shoot off the mantle piece and nearly

hit Willie in the head. He freaks. Grabbing his gun, Willie

runs into the bathroom and locks the door. Suddenly the hot

water faucet turns on by itself.

Willie is terrified. Steam rises from the sink. Willie tries

to get out, but Sam approaches him from behind and appears

to dig his hands into his neck. Willie crumples to his knees.

There is a SQUEAKING SOUND and Willie looks up. Letters are

appearing in the fogged mirror. He stares in disbelief as

the word "B-O-O!" emerges before him. He cries out.

Shaking uncontrollably, Willie FIRES his gun at the mirror.

Glass and tiles EXPLODE. Willie is cut and bleeding. He grabs

hold of the door and yanks it open.

INT. HALLWAY

Willie rushes to the hallway, charges for the back stairs

and stumbles down the three flights to the street. Carl,

running down the corridor, rushes after him. Willie drops

his gun. Carl picks it up.

EXT. BROOKLYN STREET -- NIGHT

Willie runs from the building and careens down the sidewalk.

People clear a path as he hurls past them like a madman.

Carl, confused, runs after him.

Sam, too, races after Willie, unwilling to let him get away.

Suddenly, a man obstructs his way. Willie goes flying over

him and lands face down on the cement. Before he can get up,

Sam is all over him and does not let up. People stand back

to watch as Willie does battle with himself. Panicked, he

calls out to a bystander.

People back away. Carl watches in terror. He understands

exactly what is happening.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Willie, blinded by his own hysteria, runs wildly into the

street. Cars are bearing down on him from all directions. He

does not get out of their way.

One driver sees Willie coming and swerves to avoid him. His

car skids. Another car brakes to avoid a collision and

suddenly both cars crash right into him.

Willie's body is crushed instantly between the two vehicles

as his spirit is catapulted into the air still screaming and

writhing. His ghostly form reaches out to people for help as

they rush past. No one stops.

Willie spins around and sees a mangled body crumpled on the

street. Suddenly, he recognizes that it is his own dead body

lying there. He begins to scream.

A bizarre and frightening CLICKING SOUND fills the air. Sam

looks up. A group of strange dark figures has emerged from

the shadows.

With a loud, terrifying shriek, the dark forms swoop down

and grab hold of Willie. Sam freezes. In an instant they are

dragging Willie, kicking and screaming, down through the

sewer grates into the bowels of the earth.

ANGLE

Sam backs against a wall in absolute horror. Carl, standing

in the crowd, turns and runs.

INT. OLD LADY'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Oda Mae and her sisters are huddling with the old woman in

the entryway to her apartment. They all appear frightened.

The door is opened a crack and they can see people gathering

in the hall outside.

Sam walks up to Oda Mae. She feels his presence.

Oda Mae freezes. She turns to Sam.

INT. TAXI CAB - NIGHT

Sam and Oda Mae are in a taxi speeding downtown.

Sam leans forward and pushes at the gas pedal. The cab shoots

forward. The driver seems shocked.

He gives her a dirty look.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

There is a KNOCK at the door. Molly goes to it. Fastening

the latch, she opens it a crack.

Oda Mae wedges her foot inside.

Molly tries to slam the door but hits Oda Mae's foot.

We see Sam's inside the room with Molly. He gazes at her

lovingly for a moment and then calls back to Oda Mae.

MOLLY

grabbing hold of her beads. Her hand is shaking.

Oda Mae obeys. A pile of coins falls on the floor.

Oda Mae obeys and a penny slides into the loft. Molly sees

it. Sam tips it carefully so it lands upright against the

bottom of the door. Pushing gently, he moves the penny up

the door until it's eye level with Molly. She watches it,

amazed.

Then, to her astonishment, the penny floats away from the

door and hovers in the air. There is a look of wonder in

Molly's eyes as it floats toward her.

Molly stands there dumbfounded. Her face is completely white.

After a moment she reaches for the penny. It falls into her

hand. There are tears in her eyes.

HALLWAY

Oda Mae standing in the hallway as the door to the loft begins

to open. Slowly Molly steps out onto the landing and stares

at her, nervously, uncomprehendingly. She hesitates for a

long moment and then invites Oda Mae in.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

Molly is on the phone. Oda Mae is beside her.

Oda Mae takes her and leads her to the couch.

There is a period of awkward silence.

Molly reaches out tentatively. Sam meets her hand. She

flinches for a second but does not pull back.

Oda Mae looks away uncomfortably. The CAMERA HOLDS on her

face. After a moment she turns around and addresses the air.

Sam looks oddly at Oda Mae.

Suddenly he understands what she means.

JUKEBOX

Sam's finger presses down two keys. We see a record slide

out of its slot and move toward the turntable. We know what

it is going to play.

ANGLE

Oda Mae closes her eyes. "Unchained Melody" begins to play.

Sam hesitates for a moment and then cautiously, awkwardly

slides his ghostly body into her solid form. We sense Oda

Mae's discomfort gradually give way as Sam emerges inside

her. After a second her body turns slowly toward Molly.

Oda Mae's hand reaches out and with slow, deliberate gestures,

touches Molly's hand. Molly swallows hard. She closes her

eyes.

ANGLE

Sam. It is as though he alone is there with Molly. His eyes

are full of tears. He can barely move. His hand glides slowly

down Molly's cheek. He seems to be in a state of ecstasy and

pain.

The experience is more than he can bear. He pulls back.

Molly reaches out, takes Sam's hand, and guides it to her

soft lips. Sam can barely breathe. He seems totally absorbed

in the experience, the sensation of human flesh.

His eyes are absolutely still and full of light. He seems to

be glowing.

Gently, Molly takes Sam's arm and guides him to his feet.

Effortlessly, she draws him to the center of the huge loft.

With great tenderness, she puts her arms around him and before

he knows what is happening, they are dancing. It is a strange,

touching image, reminiscent of their first night in their

new home. Sam reaches out and slowly draws his fingers down

over her face, caressing her forehead, her cheeks, her lips.

She stands motionless. Her face shines. She knows beyond all

doubt that it is him.

ANGLE

A LOUD JARRING SOUND. It takes a moment to realize that it

is someone KNOCKING at the door. The light slams back into

its shadowy substance and Sam comes shooting back into his

ghostly form. Oda Mae is standing with Molly in the center

of the room. Sam is beside them. He appears shaken and dizzy.

There is a another loud POUNDING at the door.

Molly heads for the door. Sam calls out. He can barely speak.

Sam tries to go instead. To his amazement and ours he is

extremely weak, barely able to move.

His ghostly functions are diminishing.

There is another KNOCK and a voice rings out.

Oda Mae grabs Molly.

Oda Mae and Molly run for the fire escape window. We hear

Carl yelling in the hallway.

INT. STAIRWELL - NIGHT

Carl is standing on the landing. He is holding a gun. He

aims it at the lock and FIRES. The door to the loft flies

open.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

Carl moves rapidly through the huge space.

It is obvious that no one's home.

ANGLE

Sam, with great effort, rushes at Carl and attacks him with

his fists. To his great shock, he has no impact. Carl walks

right through him.

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT

Molly and Oda Mae are climbing the fire escape.

INT. LOFT - NIGHT

Carl runs to the fire escape window. He looks out just in

time to see Oda Mae go into the 7th story window.

INT. NEW LOFT - NIGHT

Molly and Oda Mae run through a new loft that is under

construction. It is a maze of tangled wires and broken walls.

The fire escape window slams shut and nearly scares them

half to death. They rush blindly toward the front door. It

won't open.

Oda Mae reaches the fire escape window just as Carl appears

on the other side. She screams. Carl tries shoving the window

open. It won't budge.

Molly sees some scaffolding leading to the skylight. There

is an opening at the top.

Molly quickly climbs the scaffolding and makes it to the

roof.

With a huge shove, Carl opens the window and rushes inside.

The window slams behind him.

Oda Mae rushes back toward Molly, but her foot catches on a

loose cable and she falls to the ground.

OMITTED

ODA MAE

A hand falls on Oda Mae's shoulder. She spins around. Carl

is standing behind her. She screams as he knocks her to the

floor.

Molly looks down from the scaffolding and begins to scream.

She descends quickly and runs toward Carl.

Carl kicks Oda Mae. Molly rushes at him, attacking him

violently. Carl aims his gun at her.

He grabs Oda Mae by the hair.

Oda Mae cries out.

She points across the room.

Carl sees the purse and yanks Oda Mae toward it. Yanking it

off the floor, he tears through it like a wild man. There is

no check. He grabs Oda Mae.

He aims his gun at her eye and is about to FIRE when,

suddenly, something shoves him to the floor. Carl screams

and jumps back, tripping over Oda Mae. Sam is standing there.

In total panic, Carl scrambles to get up. Horrified, he SHOOTS

his gun blindly into the air. Molly and Oda Mae dive for

cover. The bullets have no impact. Sam musters all his

strength and shoves Carl again. White with fear, Carl grabs

Molly and aims his gun at her head.

The gun is cocked at her temple. No one moves. Slowly the

camera dollies toward Carl.

Nothing happens. Carl looks nervous.

ANGLE

In a wild explosive fury, Sam charges at Carl and smashes at

his gun. The weapon flies out of Carl's hand. Empowered by

an anger we have not seen before, Sam smashes into Carl with

a violent force. Carl's body careens into walls and

floorboards. Wiring snaps. Two-by-fours crack.

Carl, crawling desperately to escape, sees his gun on the

floor. With a wild rush, he grabs for it and shoots at the

door. The lock explodes and the door flies open.

Carl tries to run for it, but Sam cuts in front of him. With

growing power, Sam sends Carl flying back into the apartment,

colliding into a tall scaffold. Bags of plaster topple to

the ground as mounds of plaster dust hurl into the air. The

apartment looks like a scene from another world.

Carl, in a state of total unrelieved panic, breaks away from

Sam. The dust obscures his escape. Like a trapped insect, he

scrambles furiously to the fire escape window. Sam cannot

see him.

Carl shoves at the window. It is stuck. With a supreme effort,

he grabs a ripped bag of plaster and swings it at the glass.

Half of its plaster spews across the room before smashing

the window. Shards of glass fly in all directions. Sam turns

and sees Carl. He surges after him, but knows he cannot get

to him in time.

Carl is halfway out the window when Sam's fist slams into an

electrical box attached to a dangling BX cable. It goes flying

toward the window. To his amazement, it hits the frame. A

huge pane of glass dislodges and comes crashing down. Carl

looks up just in time to see the pointed edge aiming for his

chest. Before he can move, it pierces him between the ribs

and slices into his heart. His body quivers.

Carl's eyes bulge from their sockets. His body begins to

spasm. He can't get up. A look of abject terror flashes

through his eyes. He tries to scream. There is no sound. He

tries to breathe. There is no breath.

ANGLE

With one last effort, Carl lurches forward. To his amazement,

his body stands up and pulls away from the window. He looks

down at his chest and is amazed to see that the glass is

gone. There is no blood. Excited and confused, he turns around

and sees Sam. For a moment, he cannot comprehend what is

happening.

There is a strange, silent moment between them.

Then, seemingly out of nowhere, a terrible CLICKING sound is

heard. Frightening black forms are emerging from the darkness.

Carl looks behind him and gasps. Past the figures coming

toward him, he sees his own dead body. It is pinned to the

window sill.

Before Carl can cry out, the dark figures swoop down and

envelope him. In a flash, his spirit is caught and surges

with the dark forces back into the shadows. Far in some

invisible distance, we can barely hear him scream.

And then it is silent. It is over.

ANGLE

Molly is crouched in the corner, her back pressed tightly

against the wall. She is staring into space. The room is

filled with plaster dust. Slowly, emerging from the dust, we

see Sam approaching Molly. He gazes at her with terrible

longing.

Suddenly, a brilliant light glows from behind the ceiling

and the skylight floods the room with a golden haze. Sam

turns to look at it. His eyes are full of surprise and wonder.

The spirits beyond the ceiling are beckoning to him. As he

looks down, he notices that his hands are growing transparent.

His body is beginning to fade. A faint smile forms on his

face. He leans down toward Molly, staring at her for a long,

silent moment.

Molly's head lifts up. She looks around.

She starts to cry.

Gradually, we notice that the dust in the air near Molly is

beginning to shimmer with a subtle glow. To her astonishment,

Sam's spirit is reflected in the floating particles.

Sam's luminous form appears before her. Molly is overwhelmed

by the sight of him. The two of them gaze at one another

without moving. They know it is for the last time. It is a

silent exchange, charged with emotion.

Slowly, the two bodies reach forward. As their lips touch,

the plaster dust swirls sensuously through Sam's vaporous

image and he begins to disappear. Molly pulls back from him

as though from a cloud. His voice rises from the mist.

Tears roll down her cheek.

The brilliant light intensifies. It is beautiful, like a

sunrise, saturating the room with a warm, comforting glow.

Molly looks up and sees it all. Oda Mae sees it, too.

Oda Mae smiles warmly.

Sam turns to Molly. She is gazing at the last remaining

moments of him. Her eyes brim over with tears and love.

Molly swallows hard and wipes her eyes.

The light inside Sam intensifies. A sweet smile emerges on

his lips.

His face fills with joy.

He whispers, almost crying.

They are his last words. His spirit dissolves within its

ghostly moorings and begins to evaporate. Molly looks up

silently for a moment, her face filled with love.

We see Sam's spirit rise from the room. It passes effortlessly

through the ceiling and, in seconds, he is gone. The room

grows dark.

Molly sits quietly on the floor. There is a look of awe and

wonder in her eyes. After a moment, Oda Mae reaches down to

help her up. Molly looks at her lovingly and then gently

takes her hand. Arm in arm, supporting one another, they

walk quietly from the room.

