FADE IN

HIBERNATING GROUNDHOGS

A family of groundhogs is nestled together in their burrow

sleeping off the end of a long winter.

ROLL CREDITS AND THEME MUSIC

EXT. A FOREST CLEARING - EARLY MORNING

The crust of an old snowfall still covers the frozen ground,

and the bare, icy branches of the trees glisten dully in the

early morning light.

INT. TV STUDIO - SAME TIME

PHIL CONNORS is standing in front of a blank green wall

gesticulating animatedly at some invisible images on the wall,

talking a mile a minute (MOS) . He looks completely crazy as he

points at nothing and winks to an unseen audience.

EXT. WESTERN PENNSYLVANIA - SAME TIME

CREDITS CONTINUE as we streak across the winter landscape,

flying over fields and farms, small towns and hamlets, railroad

lines and interstates, coalyards and factories, until we cross

the Allegheny River and follow it to the southwest.

INT. TV STUDIO - SAME TIME

Phil continues pointing out features on the blank wall , but

from a new angle we can see that he ' s looking at a monitor out

of the corner of his eye which shows the chromakey insert he's

pointing to -- a national weather map.

EXT. NEAR PITTSBURGH - SAME TIME

The country towns turn to suburbs, traffic on the roads gets

heavier and finally we see the skyline of Pittsburgh and the

confluence of the Allegheny with the Monongahela and the Ohio.

We zoom into a tall building in the downtown area and

INT. PHIL CONNORS' OFFICE - MORNING

We don't see anyone at first but the office itself speaks

volumes about it's inhabitant-- team pictures of the Steelers

from the Franco Harris-Terry Bradshaw glory years, a framed

memorial portrait of Roberto Clemente, a local Emmy award

statue, an erasable weather map and mountains of personal junk

on the desk, ^windowsill, and every other available surface.

As the CREDITS END, we notice a sleeping figure on the small

sofa, buried deep under a pile of coats and a stolen airline

blanket.

GIL HAWLEY, Executive Producer of the Action News, sticks his

head in the door.

The sleeping figure rouses himself and looks out at Hawley.

It's Phil, the .Channel 9 Action News weatherman.

Phil sits up and.thinks hard. He's in his mid-thirties, smart,

rugged-looking, perhaps a little too full of himself, but

clearly a guy with a lot of personality.

He jumps up and exits the office with Hawley right behind him.

INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Hawley pursues Phil through the office suite of the Channel 9

Action News, from the look of it a typical, big city, local

news operation. A logo on the wall identifies the station as

WPGH - Pittsburgh.

Phil ducks into the studio.

INT. STUDIO - CONTINUOUS

Hawley follows him in and catches up with him at the weather

corner of the Action News set. Phil starts putting weather

stats up on a chart.

Phil shakes his head and points to the chart which is headed

"Phil's Phorecast" with a cute caricature of himself drawn next

to the title.

Hawley looks across the studio and sees RITA HANSON enter, a

very attractive segment producer in her late twenties.

Rita is relatively new to the station, but very competent,

personable, humorous, self-assured and very pretty-- in short,

a genuine princess, though Phil is too self-absorbed at this

point to realize it.

Hawley exits leaving Phil and Rita alone in the studio. She

knows Phil mainly by his reputation and it isn't good. Still,

she finds him appealing in an odd way.

STEPHANIE DECASTRO , an attractive, dark-eyed, dark-haired

correspondent, glares at Phil from across the studio.

INT. PHIL'S OFFICE - LATER

Phil is in his cluttered cubicle talking on a headset phone

while he reviews cassettes of his groundhog spots from the past

two years on a small monitor. As he talks, he stuffs a number

of personal items in an overnight bag, all the time watching

himself on the TV monitor.

Stephanie enters and stands in the doorway looking at Phil for

a long moment. There is something vaguely off-center about

this woman, not quite FATAL ATTRACTION but still a little

scary.

Phil sighs.

He takes off the headset, gets up and closes the door for

privacy.

He throws some papers and his datebook into a briefcase and

puts on his jacket.

He pats her on the shoulder and brushes past her, leaving her

standing there with a malevolent look on her face.

EXT. A HIGHWAY - AFTERNOON

A VAN marked ".Channel 9 Action News" speeds along a two-lane

highway through the winter landscape of West Central

Pennsylvania. Mounted atop the van is a microwave transmitter.

Rita is riding up front with LARRY, the union cameraman and

techie. Phil is following close behind the van in a new Lexus

coupe. His car has a bumper-sticker that reads "Weathermen

Like it Wet."

INT. THE LEXUS - CONTINUOUS

Phil is talking to one of his girlfriends, sorting through a

stack of CD's, as usual, grabbing at the good life with both

hands.

Phil loads a CD and a great, driving song kicks in.

A SIGN

"Welcome to Punxsutawney - The Original Weather Capitol of the

World Since 1887." Depicted on the sign is a large cartoon

GROUNDHOG wearing a top hat and clutching an umbrella under his

arm.

The mini-convoy passes some fast food places on the outskirts

of town.

EXT. MAIN STREET - PUNXSUTAWNEY - LATER

The van drives along , the small-town main drag. There are

cartoon groundhogs everywhere you look and the whole town has

been gaily festooned with banners and bunting.

EXT . MOTEL - LATER

The van pulls into the parking lot at a Quality Inn. The

announcement billboard in ;front of the motel reads: "Groundhog

Day Breakfast Special - Feb.2 - All You Can Eat - $5.99." The

parking area is already crowded with cars including a number of

other news vans. The Lexus pulls in behind the van and

everybody gets out.

Phil takes one look at the motel and shakes his head.

Rita is already helping Larry unload equipment from the van.

She crosses to the Lexus where Phil is trying to make another

call on his earphone.

She hands him a card.

He drives off, leaving her standing there shaking her head.

Larry snorts and continues unloading their gear.

EXT. CHERRY STREET - DAWN

The first light of morning colors the sky behind the Cherry

Street Inn, a rambling, white Victorian bed and breakfast.

CLOSE UP - CLOCK

A digital clock-radio changes from 5:59 to 6:00 AM. The radio

comes on, playing the end of the Sonny and Cher hit, "I Got

You, Babe."

SUPER: FEBRUARY 2

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - DAWN

Phil sits up in bed and looks around the room. The decor is

typical bed and breakfast, flocked wallpaper, framed prints,

and an odd assortment of mismatched furniture. His suit is

hanging neatly on the back of the closet door and his suitcase

is open on a stand at the foot of the bed, still neatly packed.

A iradio, DEEJAY and his SIDEKICK come on with hyped-up,

drivetime Chappy talk." Phil stares at the radio and listens

to them.

Phil grimaces and swings out of bed.

The deejay laughs. Phil shakes his head at the cheesy repartee

as he crosses to the sink and starts brushing his teeth.

Phil splashes some water on his face and prepares to shave.

Phil looks up at himself in the mirror, admiring his own face.

SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS.

Phil grunts at his reflection in the mirror.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAWN

Phil heads for the breakfast room of the inn, now well-dressed

in a suit and tie, a nice overcoat slung over his arm. A

CHUBBY MAN passes.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil enters the old library of the house now set up with a

breakfast buffet. An old spinet piano stands in the corner.

One wall is lined with .bookcases filled with books. A handful

of guests are seated around the room, eating.

The matron of the house, MRS. LANCASTER, spots Phil as she

comes out of the kitchen with a fresh pot of coffee.

He heads for the door.

Phil exits.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Sipping at the steaming coffee, Phil manages to put on his coat

and gloves as he descends the front steps of the house and

joins the flow of pedestrian traffic on the street.

EXT. MAIN STREET -KPUNXSUTAWNEY - CONTINUOUS

There are a lot of people on the street for this hour. Traffic

is so heavy in fact, the pedestrians are moving faster than the

cars. Everyone seems to be going in the same direction, making

the annual trek to see the groundhog.

An OLD BUM is sitting on the sidewalk leaning against a

storefront. Someone throws him a coin. Phil walks by without

taking any notice.

A big pie-faced man, NED RYERSON, comes huffing and puffing

right up to him. There is something about this guy that makes

us dislike him on sight.

Phil looks at him vaguely.

Phil stares, trying to remember.

Phil starts to walk away,,but Ned won't take the hint.

As they continue walking, Phil steps into what looks like a

shallow puddle and ends up ankle deep in wet slush. Ned laughs

like a donkey.

Phil looks at him with murderous contempt.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

A big crowd is standing in a park-like clearing off a

residential street. They are gathered around a large mound of

dirt enclosed by a rail fence, waiting for the big moment. For

a cold gray dawn, there is the atmosphere of a festival here.

An area close to the mound is roped off for news reporters and

cameras. Rita stands there, a pocket of genuine beauty in this

sea of potbellied old union guys and blow-dried reporters.

Stomping her feet against the cold, Rita looks at her watch and

glances around. Larry, the cameraman, just looks bored.

Rita spots Phil heading into the crowd.

Phil joins them in the press area. Rita pulls him to his mark

near the rail fence.

Rita holds up a slate for Larry to ID the tape.

Phil takes the microphone from Rita and positions himself

against the fence.

The Groundhog Club Officials in top hats, striped trousers and

cutaway coats parade out to the burrow that houses Punxsutawney

Phil.

Rita silently counts down from five and cues Phil who instantly

snaps into announce mode.

Rita turns to Larry. This is impressive-- so far, so good.

A Groundhog Club Official kneels at the burrow and

ceremoniously knocks on the small wooden door, then opens it

and retreats.

The groundhog sticks his head out, looks around, steps out of

the hole, and runs over to the other side of the mound, about

as far away from the cameras as he can get.

Larry zooms in as far as he can but the best he can manage is

a close-up of the groundhog's back. The groundhog stands there

a moment, his body casting a long shadow, then he lets out a

squeak and runs back into the hole.

BUSTER GREENE, dressed up in his top hat and cutaway coat,

walks onto the mound and hushes the crowd.

The crowd lets out a good-natured "Awwwwww" in disappointment.

Larry cuts the camera.

As he exits, Phil tosses the mike to Larry, who isn't expecting

the throw and bobbles it, dropping the mike on the ground.

INT . DINER - LATER

Phil is sitting alone having a cup of coffee in a busy, loud

and lively cafe. Rita enters, sees him sitting there, crosses

to his table and sits down across from him.

Rita is so irritated by him she can't even respond.

Phil looks at her evenly for a long moment.

Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita

and makes his way over to their table.

"J PATROLMEN.

Phil glowers at him and shivers.

INT. GAS STATION - LATER

Phil is on a pay phone. Snow is falling heavily outside.

GAS STATION ATTENDANT is shovelling around the pumps.

The door opens and Phil is blasted with frigid Arctic wind and

blowing snow. The GAS STATION ATTENDANT enters the tiny office

and in trying to squeeze past Phil accidentally bangs him on

the head with his snow shovel.

INT. HOTEL BAR - EVENING

Phil is at the bar in Punxsutawney ' s oldest and best hotel , the

Pennsylvanian. He looks very bored, drinking a beer,

unsuccessfully hustling an attractive local girl named NANCY.

Nancy just stares at him, clearly not into his sense of humor.

Suddenly, a BRIDE in full white wedding gown and veil rushes

into the bar, crying and shouting. A gaggle of BRIDESMAIDS

flutters around her trying to coax her back to her own wedding

but she won't budge. Then the GROOM, wearing a bad rented tux,

comes storming in and tries to drag her back, until the BEST

MAN restrains him and the bridesmaids hustle the bride away.

Phil watches the whole drama play out, then turns back to

Nancy .

She gets up to leave.

He watches her go, then tosses a tip on the bar and exits

somewhat unsteadily.

INSERT - A THICK BOOK

The cover reads "101 Curses, Spells and Enchantments You Can Do

at Home." A well-manicured feminine hand opens the book to a

marked page .

INT. CHERRY STREET INN - NIGHT - SAME TIME

Phil enters his room and drunkenly tosses his overcoat, scarf

and gloves on the floor in a heap.

INT. STEPHANIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stephanie Decastro, Phil ' s disaffected ex-lover, is sitting

cross-legged on the floor with the book of curses open in front

of her. Her hair is down, she's wearing a caftan with a Zodiac

print, there are candles everywhere and other vaguely occult

decorating touches.

INSERT

Phil's business card is dropped into a dish. Then the Tarot

card of the Hanged Man, a chicken bone, and a feather are

placed on top of it .

PHIL

He stands at the sink, looking at himself in the mirror,

flexing his muscles .

STEPHANIE

Reading from the book> she mutters incantations in a secret

language, then she sprinkles some powder on the plate, then a

few drops of oil. Then she makes a few passes over it with her

hands and, much to her surprise, the contents of the plate

spontaneously combust.

PHIL

As he crosses to the bed, he accidentally knocks over the

suitcase stand, spilling his clothes out onto the floor.

He contemplates picking them up for a moment, decides to leave

them there, and flops down on the bed. He lies there looking

u up at the ceiling until the room starts to spin around, then

he closes his eyes and quickly drops off to sleep, still fully

clothed.

STEPHANIE

To complete the spell, she picks up a broken wristwatch and

drops it into the fire.

INSERT

Phil's business card, the Hanged Man and the broken watch in

flames. The watch crystal is cracked and the hands are frozen

at 5:59.

C LOSE UP - CLOCK

The digital clock-radio changes from 5:59 to 6:00 AM. The

radio comes on, playing the end of the Sonny and Cher hit, "I

Got You, Babe," just as it did the day before.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - DAWN

Phil sits up in bed, quickly alert, and looks around the room.

Something is wrong. He's wearing pajamas, his suit is once

again hanging neatly on the closet door and his suitcase is

back on its stand at the foot of the bed, again neatly packed.

The song ends and the same radio deejay and his sidekick come

on with the same manic energy. Phil stares at the radio and

listens to them. A look of astonishment comes over his face as

they banter.

The deejay laughs. Phil "mock" laughs at exactly the same

time, recognizing the repartee from the previous morning.

Phil crosses to the sink and gets a towel off the rack, only

half-listening to the radio.

Phil turns on the water and splashes some on his face as if

trying to wake himself up, vaguely disturbed by the repetition

of the broadcast.

Phil supplies the next line in unison with the radio.

Some vague doubt causes Phil to go to the window.

SOUND EFFECT of GRUNTING GROUNDHOGS as Phil pulls back the

curtains and looks out.

HIS POV

The street is full of people heading toward Gobbler's Knob,

exactly as they did the day before.

INT. BED AND BREAKFAST - DAWN

Phil rushes out into the corridor, hastily tying his tie, his

suit jacket and overcoat over his arm. As he heads for the

breakfast room, the same Chubby Man passes.

Phil grabs him by the front of his shirt and looks deep into

his eyes.

Phil can see he's telling the truth and relaxes his grip on the

poor man.

Phil walks on, leaving the chubby man baffled and insulted.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil enters the old library of the house and finds everything

exactly as it was the day before. Mrs. Lancaster spots Phil as

she comes out of the kitchen with the fresh pot of coffee.

He heads for the door, still in a daze.

Phil exits.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - MOMENTS LATER

Phil gulps down the steaming coffee, still trying to wake up

from what he assumes is a dream, and descends the front steps

of the house. He accosts a PASSERBY.

The coffee cup drops from Phil's hand as he stands there open-

mouthed. Then he slaps his own face and shakes his head as if

trying to clear it and starts off down the street.

EXT. MAIN STREET - PUNXSUTAWNEY - CONTINUOUS

Phil rushes down the street, again failing to notice the OLD

BUM sitting on the sidewalk leaning against a storefront.

Ned Ryerson approaches with the same obnoxious attitude.

Phil just stares at him and keeps walking.

He backs away from Ned and steps right into the same deep,

slushy puddle he stepped in the day before.

Phil looks down at his wet shoes and cuffs and stumbles off

toward Gobbler's Knob.

EXT . GOBBLER ' S KNOB - DAWN

The crowd is gathered as before for the big moment.

In the press area, Rita is having the same dialogue with Larry,

when she spots Phil heading into the crowd.

Phil waves to her and heads straight for an obscure corner of

the Knob, gesturing for her to follow.

Larry shakes his head as Rita charges through the crowd toward

Phil. She catches up to him just as he is scratching a mark in

the snow with his foot. She notices immediately that he is

uncharacteristically dishevelled, his tie askew, his hair

mussed.

She gives up and taps him lightly on the cheek.

. . .. ... .RITA .

Rita shrugs and slaps him very hard.

The crowd begins to hush.

Rita takes a forlorn glance towards the press area, where all

of the other cameras are set up .

Rita looks at him like he's crazy, then looks at her watch and

gives up.

She charges off toward the cameras.

In the Press Area, several reporters are already talking to

their cameras, dribbling on about how "He could appear any

second now." Rita and Larry grab their gear and rush back to

Phil.

Larry hurriedly sets up the camera.

Larry glances over at the other news reporters, all talking to

their cameras and pointing towards the mound.

Rita looks helplessly at Phil.

Phil glances down at his watch.

He crosses over to Larry and taps him on the shoulder.

Phil takes the microphone from Rita and positions himself

against the fence.

Phil does a similar intro to the one he did before, though this

time it's a bit tentative.

The Groundhog Club Official knocks on the groundhog's door,

then opens it and retreats.

Phil takes a deep breath and makes his first experimental

prediction, recalling the previous day.

Phil looks at his watch.

Phil points to the hole and Larry zooms in.

The groundhog sticks his head out, looks left, looks right,

steps out of the hole, and runs away from the press pool,

directly over to Larry's camera. As he stands there, his body

casts a long shadow. The groundhog looks right into the

camera, lets out a squeak, and runs back into the hole.

Rita and Larry are completely amazed as the crowd cheers the

brief appearance of the groundhog. Larry pans back to Phil.

Phil just stands there speechless, staring at the groundhog

burrow.

Buster Greene, the Groundhog club official, walks onto the

mound and hushes the crowd, exactly as before.

Again the crowd lets out a good-natured "Awwwwww" in

disappointment.

Larry pans back to Phil just in time to see him walking away in

a fog, without signing off. Then he pans back to Rita.

She holds for a moment then makes the cut sign, drawing her

finger across her throat.

INT; PHIL'S ROOM

Phil is on the phone desperately trying to make a call.

He hangs up and shakes his head which is now really starting to

ache, then he pops a handful of Tylenol, lies down and pulls

the covers up over his head. A moment later, he sits up, takes

a pencil from the nightstand, breaks it in half and puts the

pieces back on the nightstand. Then he lies back down and

retreats back under the covers.

CLOSE UP - CLOCK

The digital clock-radio changes from 5:59 to 6:00 AM. The

radio comes on, playing the end of the Sonny and Cher hit, "I

Got You, Babe," just as it did the day before.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - DAWN

Phil sits up in bed fearing the worst and looks on the

nightstand. The pencil is whole again. Completely stunned by

the phenomenon, he jumps out of bed and starts dressing

hurriedly as the morning Deejays begin their now familiar rap.

Phil rushes out of the room.

EXT. CHERRY STREET - LATER

Phil hurries toward the bed and breakfast carrying two gallon

buckets of paint, and a couple of big bags from a hardware

store.

INT. BED AND BREAKFAST - CONTINUOUS

Phil enters and passes Mrs. Lancaster in the breakfast room.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - LATER

Phil enters and dumps the bags on the bed. Out fall a couple

of big paintbrushes, a small sledgehammer, a handsaw, a

crowbar, plastic goggles and assorted other tools. He puts on

the goggles, grabs a hammer and some nails and starts nailing

the door shut.

EXT. CORRIDOR - LATER

Mrs. Lancaster and several other guests are gathered in the

hall outside Phil's room, listening at the door and looking

very worried. Loud music is playing inside the room.

From inside the room, they hear the sound of loud hammering,

wood splintering and glass breaking.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil, has demolished just about all the furniture and woodwork

in the room. He rips off the last of the wooden moldings with

the crowbar, then crosses to the mirror over the demolished

sink.

Phil stands there, staring at his image in the mirror, trying

to figure out what's happening to him. He starts breathing

heavier, as if gathering courage, then, just when we think he's

going to cut off his ear or something, he raises an electric

barber clipper and shaves a bald stripe up the middle of his

head. He studies his new look for a moment then smashes the

mirror with his sledgehammer.

Then he opens the cans of paint, dips the two big brushes into

the cans and starts slapping bright red paint onto the walls,

madly, feverishly, splashing himself and everything else in the

room with it.

As a final touch he grabs the bed pillows and rips them open,

then shakes them all around the room creating a storm of

feathers.

Finally, Phil falls exhausted on the bed. From outside we can

hear outraged hotel employees pounding on the door.

We pan over to the clock radio, the only undamaged object in

the room. Feathers drift down past the face of the clock which

reads 5:59 AM. The time changes to 6:00, the radio clicks on

and "I Got You, Babe" starts playing as we pan back to Phil

sleeping on the bed.

He opens his eyes, jumps out of bed and looks around. No

paint, no feathers, no damage. Everything is as clean and tidy

as the day he checked in.

He races over to the unbroken mirror and looks at himself. His

hair is completely restored, as if it had never been shaved.

The song ends and the deejays come on. Phil says every word

right along with them, shocked into a state of complete

wonderment.

The deejay laughs. Phil laughs insanely along with him.

EXT . GOBBLER ' S KNOB - EARLY MORNING

Phil is wrapping up another groundhog report, trying to be

completely professional despite the circumstances.

He holds until Larry stops tape, then approaches Rita.

EXT. MAIN STREET - A BIT LATER

Phil and Rita cross the street and walk past a crowd of

concerned citizens gathered around what looks like a car

accident. As an ambulance arrives, Phil and Rita enter the

cozy looking diner on the corner.

INT. DINER.- CONTINUOUS

Phil and Rita sit together at the same table they had

previously. The WAITER approaches.

The waiter pours her a cup.

Rita looks at him for a long moment.

Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita

and makes his way over to their table.

INSERT

X-rays of Phil's skull are slapped up onto a light box.

INT. MEDICAL CLINIC - DAY

Phil is having his head examined by a NEUROLOGIST.

INT. PSYCHOLOGIST'S OFFICE - DAY

Punxsutawney's only PSYCHOLOGIST is a marriage and family

counselor at the local Lutheran church. His appearance and

manner indicate he may have some serious problems of his own.

Phil is lying on a couch. His head is completely shaved.

A discreet little alarm sounds.

Phil glowers at him.

INSERT - A MODEL OF THE SOLAR SYSTEM

A SCIENTIST in a white lab coat is holding up the model. Phil

looks on with interest.

A paper airplane sails past his head, accompanied by a noisy

outburst of juvenile laughter. We pull back to REVEAL:

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Twenty-five eighth-graders running amok.

The kids sit back down, but keep up their noisy chatter.

INT. SCHOOL CORRIDOR - LATER

Phil is walking toward the exit when he passes a first grade

classroom. The door is open and the TEACHER is discussing a

story with the class.

Phil stops outside the door to listen.

INT. CLASSROOM - CONTINUOUS

The whole class erupts in giggles and shrieks.

INT. THE CORRIDOR - SAME TIME

Phil is leaning against the wall listening. There is something

very arresting about the fairy tale, but finally he just shakes

his head and exits.

INT. DEW DROP INN - LATER THAT NIGHT

Phil is at a bar getting drunk with two local blue-collar

workers, GUS and PHIL.

They salute each other and drink.

EXT. THE STREET - LATER

Phil, Gus and Ralph approach Ralph's big, black, old Buick

convertible parked outside the bar. They are even drunker than

they were before.

He's as wasted as they are, but Ralph hands over his keys

without a fight.

They all pile into the front seat with Phil at the wheel.

Ralph and Gus give him the thumbs up sign and start digging

around in the seat cracks for their seatbelts. Suddenly, Phil

floors the accelerator and peels away, sideswiping a parked car

as he screeches around the corner.

INT. THE BUICK - CONTINUOUS

Phil is having a great time. Gus and Ralph are whooping it up

like kids on a roller coaster.

Phil passes the intersection.

EXT . MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS

Phil throws the car into a high-speed, skidding U-turn, goes up

on the curb, across a couple of lawns, takes out a mailbox and

a STOP sign and bounces back onto the street.

A POLICE CAR parked in front of the hardware store pulls out

and takes off after him.

INT. THE BUICK - CONTINUOUS

Phil swerves in and out of oncoming traffic. Gus is starting

to look a little green.

EXT. THE STREET - CONTINUOUS

The Buick demolishes a parked car.

He mows down a row of parking meters.

POLICE CAR

It comes screaming around a corner in hot pursuit of the Buick

INT. THE BUICK - CONTINUOUS

Ralph hears the siren and looks back at the police car.

EXT. THE STREET - CONTINUOUS

A second police car joins the chase.

Phil speeds up to a hundred miles and hour. Gus is looking

even worse from the liquor and the motion of the car.

THEIR POV - THE INTERSECTION AHEAD

Two police cars with lights flashing are parked sideways,

completely blocking the road. Officers stand in the roadway,

motioning for Phil to stop.

He tromps the gas pedal to the floor. Gus's eyes go wide with

terror.

The police dive out of the way.

THEIR POV - THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD

The Buick crashes head on into one of the police cars.

C LOSE UP - CLOCK

The time changes from 5:59 to 6:00. The radio starts playing

"I Got You, Babe."

Phil sits up suddenly and looks around, completely amazed. He

is in his room at the bed and breakfast, everything exactly the

same as before. He hops out of bed and quickly examines

himself for signs of physical injury. Nothing. The music ends

and the two deej ays come on.

Phil talks out loud along with them.

The deejays laughs. Phil laughs, too, exhilirated at having

survived the car wreck, still very confused and perplexed, but

just beginning to see the possibilities of his unique

situation. He starts dressing in a hurry.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil rushes into the breakfast room just as Mrs. Lancaster

comes out of the kitchen with the coffee. Everything is

exactly the same as before.

Phil interrupts, answering all her questions before she even

asks them.

Phil gooses her, grabs a sweet roll, and heads for the door,

starting to believe now that he can truly do anything he wants

to.

EXT. BOARDING HOUSE - DAWN

Phil stops on the steps, puts on his coat and gloves and again

joins the traffic heading toward Gobbler's Knob.

EXT. MAIN STREET - MOMENTS LATER

Phil passes the old bum, ignoring him as usual.

Phil slips off his glove as Ned Ryerson lumbers toward him.

Before Ned can say another word, Phil SLUGS HIM. Ned goes

down, Phil puts his glove back on and keeps walking.

Phil deftly avoids the slushy pothole he stepped in before. A

PEDESTRIAN walking behind him steps right into it.

EXT . GOBBLER'S KNOB - LATER

Phil is passing through the crowd on his way to the press area

when he notices NANCY, the girl he met at the hotel bar, and

stops to talk to her.

She gives him a look. It's obvious she's never seen him

before.

She really doesn't know what to make of Phil but she decides to

play along.

Phil walks off and joins Rita at their camera position.

INT. DINER - LATER THAT MORNING

Phil is sitting at his usual table, which is covered with an

incredible variety of rich foods-- eggs, bacon, sausage,

pancakes, pies, cakes, eclairs, ice cream, puddings, etc.

Rita sits across from him, watching in amazement as he stuffs

himself with pastry.

Phil scrapes a plate and takes a final bite of a chocolate

eclair.

He takes a big bite of cake. Rita shakes her head.

Rita shrugs. Phil lights up a cigarette.

Larry enters the diner and spots them.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - NEXT MORNING

Phil comes through the crowd and finds Nancy in the same spot

she was in the day before.

Nancy turns and looks at him quizzically.

Nancy, right?

I'm sorry, I--

Nancy Taylor? Lincoln High? I

sat next to you in Mrs. Walsh's

English class.

T h at --

Phil Connors.

--is amazing!

You don't remember me, do you?

I don't-- sure, I think--

We used to shoot spit balls--

Yeah, oh, God--

I even asked you to the prom.

Phil Connors.

Yeah.

How ARE you?!

I ' m great. Wow, you look

terrific. Hey, listen, I gotta

d o this report--

You're a reporter?

Weatherman. Channel 9,

Pittsburgh.

Right, I should've known--

Rita is calling from across the crowd. She looks at him with

disapproval .

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Phil is making passionate love to a WOMAN in the dark.

The woman suddenly freezes. There is a moment of silence, then

she snaps on the light. It's Nancy, not Rita. Phil is as

surprised as she is by his slip of the tongue.

Nancy laughs uncertainly. Phil switches off the light,

thinking now about Rita.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - MORNING

Some elderly GUESTS are sipping coffee and eating breakfast,

staring uncomfortably at something on the other side of the

room.

THEIR POV

Phil is standing at the bookcase, wearing only pajamas,

absently munching on a Danish as he reads from one of the

books.

Mrs. Lancaster approaches him.

He finishes and puts the book back on the shelf.

Phil kisses her on the lips and walks off.

EXT. PENN BANK AND TRUST - DAY

Two harmless-looking old GUARDS are calmly loading bags of cash

into an armored car parked in front of a local bank. Suddenly

Phil appears, wielding a shotgun, wearing a Batman style cape,

his face completely hidden by a ski mask.

The guards stand there frozen with terror.

He raises the mask and shows his face.

The frightened guards watch as Phil makes off with two large

satchels of cash.

INT. USED CAR DEALERSHIP - DAY

Phil pats the hood of a used BMW 850 sports car as a SALESMAN

stands by beaming. Phil is wearing a full Steelers football

uniform complete with shoulder pads.

The Salesman gawks as Phil opens his briefcase and starts

counting out stacks of bills.

EXT. PUNXSUTAWNEY - DAY

From a high angle, we see the BMW tearing around the streets of

the town as if running a Grand Prix road race.

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

The BMW comes screeching to a stop right in front of the movie

theater and the door opens.

A pair of really elaborate cowboy boots complete with silver

spurs hits the pavement first; then we PAN UP to see Phil

emerge from the car wearing a really gaudy; full cowboy outfit

with real six-guns on his hips. A very trashy-looking girl,

LARAINE, gets out on the passenger side, dressed like a French

maid.

He escorts her into the theater.

INT. TATTOO PARLOR - ANOTHER DAY

Phil is lying on the table, getting elaborately tattooed.

Rita walks by, looks in the window and is shocked to see Phil

there.

Phil waves at her and points to the colorful new heart pierced

by a bloody dagger being tattooed on his arm.

INT. BIKER BAR - NIGHT

We pan down the line of ROUGH TRADE PATRONS to. Phil, dressed

all in black leathers, both arms heavily tattooed, looking like

Sid Viscious on crack. He takes off his hat to reveal red,

white and blue hair shaved almost down to his skull. A slut

named ANGIE and another overweight, not very pretty MADONNA

WANNA-BE, both in too-tight jeans and bullet bras are coming on

to him, practically licking his ears. Angie pops a couple of

mystery pills into his mouth. Phil washes them down with a

shot and a beer.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

It looks like ;outtakes from Fellini's "Satyricon." Heavy metal

is blaring from the radio, as several unsavory looking men and

women are partying down, a few already passed out, sleeping off

whatever hit them. Someone is knocking loudly on the door,

shouting complaints about the music. A beer bottle smashes

against the door.

Phil is sitting up on the bed with Angie. He has his arm

around her shoulder and a fifth of Wild Turkey in his hand.

A big German Shepherd tries to jump up on the bed with them.

The dog jumps up again.

Phil looks over at Angle who's passed out with her mouth open

EXT. A SIDE STREET - THE NEXT MORNING

Rita is in the news van reviewing the tape of Phil's report

Phil hovers at the open side door.

She switches off the videotape and steps out of the van.

She starts walking toward the center of town. Phil sticks

right with her.

INT. DINER - A LITTLE LATER

Phil and Rita are at their usual table, drinking coffee.

She stares hard at him.

Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around, spots Rita

and makes his way over to their table.

Larry scowls at Phil and exits.

Phil watches Rita exit.

PHIL'S POV

Rita gets in the news van and drives off with Larry.

Phil stares out the window, more" determined than ever to win

her over.

EXT. GOBBLERS KNOB - ANOTHER DAY

Phil is wrapping up his groundhog report.

Larry stops tape.

Phil runs off without another word of explanation.

EXT. THE NEWS VAN - LATER

Phil has the hood open and is doing something to the engine.

INT. THE BERGHOF RESTAURANT - LATER

Rita is sitting at the bar in the town's best restaurant, a

good chophouse with Black Forest decor and waitresses dressed

in dirndl skirts and aprons. Phil enters and sits down next to

her.

Phil nods to himself.

SAME SCENE - ANOTHER DAY

Phil walks in and sits next to Rita.

Rita looks at Phil, surprised.

The BARTENDER pours.

Rita stares for a moment.

SAME SCENE - ANOTHER DAY

Rita looks at Phil.

, BARTENDER

The BARTENDER pours.

Phil lifts his glass.

Rita smiles, reevaluating him.

They clink glasses.

INT. THE BAR - LATER

Rita and Phil are now sitting together at a table, a plate of

cheese and crackers and a bottle of white wine between them.

Rita looks offended. Phil knows he made a mistake.

SAME SCENE - ANOTHER DAY

Phil leans in closer to her.

Rita smiles, entranced.

INT. FUDGE SHOP - DAY

Phil and Rita are sitting at a table in a small confectionery,

tasting chunks of different flavored fudge. Rita takes a bite

Phil smiles. Then Larry enters.

Over Phil's sympathetic look we hear the song, "I Can't Get

Started With You".

INT. THE BERGHOF RESTAURANT - NIGHT

The music continues over Rita and Phil on the small dance

floor. They dance, close, dreamy, romantic.

EXT. MAIN STREET - LATER THAT NIGHT

There is a light snow falling. Phil and Rita are making a

little snowman. Somehow the town looks magical tonight-- old

fashioned, wholesome.

A snowball hits Phil in the back. He and Rita turn around to

see a giggling KID. Phil packs a snowball and tosses it. The

kid throws one back. Rita and Phil both get into it, packing

snowballs and getting into a war with this kid and his little

gang of friends.

A snowball catches Rita unaware, she slips and goes down in a

snowbank. Phil bends down to help her and slips. They are no

together, lying in the snow, laughing. Their eyes lock for a

long sweet moment, then Rita gets embarrassed and stands up.

EXT . CHERRY STREET INN - NIGHT

Phil and Rita are walking slowly, very close.

\ They enter the bed and breakfast inn.

Rita shakes loose from his grasp.

There is a long moment of silent tension, then all her old

doubts about Phil come rushing back.

Rita slaps him hard on the cheek.

She turns and stomps off, leaving Phil standing there hurting.

EXT. MAIN STREET - ANOTHER NIGHT

The snowball fight with the kids is going on as before. Phil

falls into the snowbank with Rita and they almost kiss.

INT. QUALITY INN MOTEL - LATER

^pushes him away and slams the door in his face.

EXT. MOTEL - NIGHT

The streets are deserted except for Phil, staring up at Rita's

window in the Quality Inn.

Rita comes to her window and looks out. She sees Phil looking

up at her and draws the curtains.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - DAWN

"I Got You, Babe" is playing. Phil hits the clock radio to

turn it off. He lies there for a moment, then hefts himself

heavily out of bed, not eager to repeat the day yet another

time. With the radio off, Phil does the deejays' morning

routine himself, seemingly for the millionth time.

Phil continues the radio report at his own pace, obviously

fatigued.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

Phil is walking through the crowd. He spots Nancy, walks up to

her and greets her half-heartedly .

Phil can't manage enough enthusiasm to pursue her yet again.

Phil wanders over to where Rita and Larry are setting up the

camera. Rita comes over to him.

Phil looks at her sadly, then turns away.

INT . BIKER BAR - NIGHT

The balls CRACK as the cue ball breaks the rack.

Phil is walking around the table, cue in hand, sinking ball

after ball, while several admiring HUSTLERS look on.

Phil shoots, sinks a tough one.

Phil sinks another one.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

The crowd is waiting expectantly for the groundhog to appear

Phil is a wreck, squatting unprofessionally in front of the

camera.

Larry and Rita look on, incredulous.

CLOSE UP - TV SET

The program JEOPARDY! is playing.

There is a cheering from a small group of people off-screen.

INT. PARLOR - CONTINUOUS

Phil is sitting in his bathrobe in a big lounge chair in the

parlor of his hotel. Mrs. Lancaster, and other guests watch

his performance, awed by his "intellect."

More cheering from the small group.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Phil is walking through town, still dressed only in his pajamas

and overcoat, counting the sidewalk cracks, taking giants steps

from one to the next. He looks crazy.

A woman passes walking her dog.

Phil continues walking, counting the sidewalk cracks. THREE

NEIGHBORHOOD KIDS notice Phil and walk along, matching him step

for step.

Phil stops. He has lost count. His lip curls up like an

animal as he turns slowly, growling at the kids. They run away

screaming with glee. Phil starts after them but runs right

into a COP.

He rips a groundhog patch off the cop's jacket sleeve.

Phil turns to the cop like a rabid dog, ready to strike.

Some big new idea has formed in his mind.

EXT . GOBBLER'S KNOB - EARLY MORNING

Rita is looking at Phil as Larry videotapes his report.

They turn back to watch Phil's wrap-up.

Phil is completely unkempt, still wearing only pajama bottoms

and his overcoat, looking even more demented.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - NIGHT

Phil is walking around the mound, casing it out. He takes a

rifle out from under his coat and sneaks up to the burrow. He

pulls a smoke bomb from his pocket, lights it, and throws it

into the hole, then scurries for the edge of the knob and hits

the deck. He lifts his rifle and aims it.

Smoke is now pouring from the mound. Lots of it.

Phil waits, his trigger finger twitching.

A WOMAN casually walks by, stops. She surveys the situation.

Phil doesn't move. He-doesn't care that she sees him.

Phil's gun droops. The woman begins to walk off, then stops.

She leaves.

EXT. CIVIC CENTER - DAY

Phil passes a pedestal bearing a life-size bronze statue of the

groundhog and enters the public library.

INT. LIBRARY - CONTINUOUS

Phil walks past the front desk looking very haggard and

dangerous, and enters the children's section. No one is

present except the CHILDREN'S LIBRARIAN, a young woman,

reshelving books in the stacks. He looks around quickly and

sees a window in the wall and over it a large sign which reads:

"Punxsutawney Phil - The Great Prognosticates"

Phil heads right for it.

The groundhog scurries around his little temperature-controlled

habitat, oblivious to the approaching danger.

As Phil approaches the groundhog display, he reaches into his

overcoat and pulls out a pump shotgun with a short pistol grip.

The children's librarian sees the gun and freezes.

Phil pumps a shell into the chamber as he walks right up to the

case.

PHIL'S POV

The groundhog looks right into his sights.

Philsqueezes the trigger. LOUD GUNSHOT.

The glass window is still intact, not a scratch on it. The

groundhog looks up playfully.

Phil fires off four more rounds but, again, no results. Phil

can't believe it. He charges the glass and pounds it with the

rifle butt. He can't even chip it. Suddenly he is seized from

behind by TWO STRONG MEN who take the rifle from him and

wrestle him to floor.

The librarian comes running up and looks at the groundhog.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

The groundhog is just poking his head out of the hole. He

stands full height and looks around.

Phil looks directly at the groundhog with hate and scheming

madness.

Suddenly, Phil whips out a big kitchen knife from under his

icoat and dives at the groundhog. Town officials and police

throw themselves on Phil as the groundhog scampers safely back

into his hole.

Rita and Larry videotape the incident, aghast at Phil's insane

attack.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - ANOTHER DAY

Larry and Rita are loading their equipment back into the van.

Rita spots Phil standing on the other side of the crowd,

staring at her. She marches straight over to him, furious.

Phil kisses her gently on the cheek and walks off toward the

back of the knob. Rita watches him, then follows at a discreet

distance, very worried.

In a small clearing behind the man-made groundhog burrow,

Buster Greene and TWO other GROUNDHOG CLUB OFFICIALS are

lifting a cage into the front seat of Buster's pickup.

The other official looks up and sees Phil walking toward them

like a zombie.

Without a word, Phil jumps quickly into the cab of the pickup

and starts it up .

Phil drives off in Buster's truck.

Rita witnesses the groundhog-napping and runs back toward the

knob.

Buster and his aides race for another car parked nearby.

They jump into a car, Buster guns the engine and takes off

after the pickup.

Rita runs up to Larry and grabs the camera on the fly.

Larry does a slow take and starts gathering up the rest of the

gear.

EXT. LOCAL ROAD - MINUTES LATER

Phil comes tearing around a slippery curve, followed by Buster

in his car, and close behind him, a contingent of police cars

and the Channel 9 news van.

INT. PICKUP - CONTINUOUS

Phil looks at the groundhog on the seat next to him, then

punches the gas as he turns up a mountain drive.

INT. BUSTER'S CAR - SAME TIME

Buster pursues Phil with relentless determination.

INT. THE NEWS VAN - SAME TIME

Rita is driving. Larry is hooking up the camera.

Larry squeezes into the passenger seat with the camera mounted

on his shoulder .

EXT. MOUNTAIN ROAD - CONTINUOUS

The cars chase the pickup to the top of the mountain.

INT. BUSTER'S CAR - CONTINUOUS

EXT. LOGGER'S LEAP - CONTINUOUS

The pickup is losing its lead over the pursuers as it nears the

sharp mountain cliff.

INT. THE PICKUP - SAME TIME

Phil looks in his rearview mirror at the cars chasing him. He

glances down at the groundhog. He takes a breath.

Phil hits the gas.

INT. THE NEWS VAN - SAME TIME

Larry is taping as Rita comes around the curve just in time to

see the pickup truck speeding toward the cliff. Rita hits the

brakes and watches in horror.

EXT. LOGGER'S LEAP - CONTINUOUS

The pickup bursts through a retaining fence and rockets over

the edge of the cliff.

The pickup seems to hang in the air for a long time, then it

begins its SLOW MOTION descent, falling ever so gracefully

until it impacts on the granite rock face far below.

BIG EXPLOSION. BIG FIREBALL. FLAMING WRECKAGE. Then a small

click, followed by "I Got You, Babe."

PHIL

He slowly opens his eyes and blinks. He looks around and

realizes he's back in his room at the bed and breakfast.

Phil throws off the covers and hurls himself out of bed.

INT. NED RYERSON'S OFFICE - DAY

Ned and a client are huddled over his desk, looking at some

papers. A BODY DROPS quickly past the window behind them.

It's Phil.

They rush to the window and look down at the sidewalk three

stories below. Phil is sprawled there like a broken puppet,

lifeless.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - DAWN

"I Got You, Babe" is playing. Phil wakes up and smashes the

radio.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Rita and Larry are walking down the street when a GREYHOUND BUS

pulls out of the bus station and accelerates down Main Street.

Suddenly, Phil, dressed in pajamas and overcoat, leaps out in

front of the speeding bus. Rita witnesses the whole incident.

D RIVERS' POV

He sees Phil through the windshield but doesn't even have time

to hit the brakes before he runs right over Phil.

A TV SCREEN

A woman in some horror movie is screaming.

REVEAL

Mrs. Lancaster is watching TV in the parlor of the hotel. In

the corridor behind her, Phil walks by, dressed in a robe,

carrying an electric toaster and a towel, heading for the

bathroom.

A few moments pass.

We hear the zap of an electrocution, the lights and TV flicker

and dim for a moment, then come back on again.

EXT. THE BANK - DAY

The building is surrounded by police, all crouched behind their

cars with guns and rifles trained on the doors.

Suddenly, the doors burst open and Phil comes running out of

the bank screaming, dressed in camouflage fatigues and armed to

the teeth with an assault rifle in one hand, an Uzi in the

other and a couple of handguns stuck in his belt. He doesn't

get three feet before he is shot down in an incredible hail of

gunfire.

Rita stands beside the camera gaping in horror while Larry

records the grisly massacre.

INT. CORONER'S - DAY

Rita stands by weeping while Phil's body is covered with a

sheet.

In the shadowy darkness under the sheet, a CLICK is heard and

Phil's eyes pop open. "I Got You, Babe" plays.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil pulls the sheet off his face and finds himself back in his

bed in his room. A tear falls from his eye.

INT. DINER - DAY

Phil and Rita are sitting in the diner at their regular table.

The waiter comes to the table.

The waiter looks at him like he's nuts.

The /waiter turns to leave.

The waiter turns back.

Phil grabs an astonished Rita and pulls her over to the next

table.

Doris touces her engagement ring, dumbfounded. Rita is a

little embarrassed.

Phil drags Rita to the counter.

Rita flashes a quick smile.

Rita is getting very bewildered. From their reactions she can

see that Phil is right about each and every one of them.

Phil points to the kitchen as smoke starts pouring from the

service window. Everyone in the diner is now staring at them

Phil takes a long pause.

Larry pokes his head in the doorway, looks around and spots

Rita.

As Rita turns around to see Larry, Phil grabs a pen and pad

from a passing waitress and quickly writes something down as

Larry makes his way to their table. Phil finishes writing.

Phil hands the paper to Rita. She reads it.

Larry looks at the paper.

Rita looks at Phil with new understanding and empathy.

EXT. PUNXSUTAWNEY - DAY

Phil and Rita are walking down the sidewalk.

Phil abruptly pulls Rita aside. A big pile of snow slides off

a roof and onto the sidewalk where they would have walked.

Phil doesn't even look up. Rita looks, as if she's seeing a

miracle.

NED RY-ERSON approaches.

Phil and Rita keep walking. Rita looks back at Ned, perplexed

EXT. FUDGE SHOP - DAY

Phil and Rita come out of the shop, sharing pieces of fudge.

Rita stops walking.

Phil continues walking.

She catches up to him. Phil turns to her.

She begins walking again.

EXT. PARK - DAY

Phil and Rita are sitting on a park bench.

Rita looks at him with compassion.

Rita comes to a decision.

INT. PHIL'S ROOM - NIGHT

A hat is lying on Phil's bed. A playing card flies past. A

second playing card sails right into the hat. Another playing

card sails past, missing. Another playing card sails right in

Phil and Rita are tossing cards. Rita is missing. Phil is

hitting.

There ' s a knock on the door .

Phil jumps for the door and opens it. The PIZZA GUY is there.

Phil pays him, takes the pizza and closes the door.

Phil looks at her with tremendous affection and gratitude.

He takes a slice of pizza and starts eating with gusto.

THE PIZZA BOX - LATER

There's only one slice left.

Phil and Rita are sitting together on the bed, close but not

touching. Soft music is playing on the radio.

Phil stares at her for a long time letting this sink in. Then

he belches really loud. Rita stares at him, then burps

surprisingly loud herself.

The clock reads 11:59. Rita grabs Phil's hand. He puts his

arm around her.

They look into each others' eyes. Rita gives Phil a reassuring

smile. She squeezes his hand. Their eyes turn to the clock.

11:;59 turns to 12:00.

Rita looks up at Phil as if expecting some magical event.

She is mad in a playful way.

Phil takes Rita's hand. She doesn't resist.

LATER

Rita is now sitting right next to Phil on the bed, her head

resting on his shoulder. She nods off then catches herself.

Her eyes start to close again.

He looks at her, sees she's truly asleep, and gently maneuvers

her into a comfortable reclining position on the bed. Then he

carefully puts a pillow under her head and settles down next to

her.

She starts to stir but he gently kisses her back to sleep.

She stirs again but he kisses her until she returns to deep

sleep.

Rita opens her eyes.

He kisses her gently on the forehead.

C LOSE UP - THE CLOCK

The time changes from 5:59 to 6:00. The radio starts playing.

Phil wakes up alone in bed. He lies there for a moment then

leaps out of bed like a man reborn and heads straight for the

shower.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

Rita and Larry are in the packed press area, beginning to set

up the equipment.

Phil arrives, carrying two cups of coffee.

She looks at him without a trace of the rapport they shared the

night before.

He hands her the coffee.

He hands Larry a cup.

She reaches for an equipment case.

Phil helps Larry carry the camera gear.

Larry looks suspicious. Rita looks on, reevaluating Phil.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

Phil enters the library, approaches the Librarian.

Phil walks through the stacks, past the groundhog window.

EXT. A HOUSE - DAY

Phil rings the doorbell. A kindly young woman, MARY, answers

Mary hesitates only a moment, then ushers Phil into the house

and closes the door.

A moment later the door opens and a LITTLE GIRL with an armloa

of music books exits as if pushed. The door closes behind her.

INT. HALLWAY - DAWN

Phil walks happily down the hallway. He passes the chubby man.

INT. MARY'S HOUSE - DAY

Phil and Mary are sitting together at the piano. Phil is

playing, poorly.

Phil plays on, definitely improving.

INT. LIBRARY - DAY

We see several cuts of Phil studying at the library.

SUPERED over these cuts is a calendar with the pages flipping

by. They all read "February 2 . "

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

Phil stands in front of the camera, giving his report.

Rita looks on, clearly delighted with the report.

INT. MARY'S HOUSE - DAY

Phil is playing the piano with ever increasing skill as more

February 2 calendar pages flip by.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

Phil is delivering another report.

Larry whispers an aside to Rita.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Beyond the graveyard is a work shed with various tombstones

scattered about. Old TUCKER, the town stonecarver, is at work

chiseling a name into a gravemarker.

Behind him, Phil is chipping away at a small hunk of marble,

sculpting a very lovely cherub.

Rita sits on a stool eating an apple and sipping hot tea

watching him with amazed interest.

Rita shrugs.

They both laugh. Then she looks at him for a long moment and

grins.

Phil takes a bite of her apple and gets up.

They exit.

EXT. MAIN STREET '-.. LATER

Phil drops Rita off and watches as she crosses the street to

Larry who is waiting on the other side.

Across the street, Rita takes a wistful glance toward Phil,

then gets in the news van and drives off.

Phil gets out of the car and starts walking, but finds himself

face to face with Ned Ryerson.

Phil gives Ned a big hug and keeps holding on for an

uncomfortably long time, actually giving Ned a hickey on the

neck. Ned goes into homophobic shock.

He hurries off.

INT. MARY'S HOUSE - DAY

Phil is sitting on the piano bench with Mary, playing pretty

well. Mary is astonished.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Phil is walking down the street. He glances down the alley as

he passes, stops, walks back and enters the alley. The OLD BUM

that Phil never noticed before is lying there, huddled against

a wall. Phil goes to help him.

The old bum turns to look at Phil, then closes his eyes.

Phil practically carries him out of the alley.

INT. HOSPITAL EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

A nurse approaches Phil.

Phil pauses for a long moment.

Phil brushes past her and makes for the big double doors

leading to triage.

INT. DINER - MORNING

Phil is propping up the old man at a table, trying to feed him

hot soup.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Phil is furiously looking over X-rays, flipping through medical

journals and making notes.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Phil is in the alley, shaking the old man, trying to rouse him.

Phil stops. The body lies, unmoving. Phil sits back,

breathing heavily.

EXT. GOBBLER'S KNOB - DAWN

Phil is delivering his report. Everyone there is silent and

listening to Phil. Even the other reporters have turned their

cameras on him.

Phil smiles. Rita smiles, too.

There is much applause. Even Larry brushes away a tear.

Phil hands the microphone to Rita.

Phil rushes off.

Rita rushes off after Phil.

EXT. STREET CORNER - DAY

Phil walks briskly toward an intersection, glancing nervously

at his watch. Rita follows him at a distance, hurrying to keep

up.

MARIE, a little nine-year-old girl, approaches the intersection

shielding her brand new puppy under her winter coat. She isn't

paying attention to traffic and fails to notice a big truck

bearing down on her.

As she steps off the curb, Phil arrives and, with split-second

timing, nonchalantly but firmly grabs her coat to hold her

back, just as the big truck rushes past in the street, narrowly

missing her.

Phil looks at his watch and rushes off.

Rita looks on amazed and follows him at a distance.

INT. BERGHOF RESTAURANT - DAY

Phil enters the crowded restaurant and pushes past all the

people waiting to be seated. He walks casually but quickly and

purposefully around the tables, squeezing past busy waitresses

and seated patrons toward a commotion in the back of the

restaurant.

TWO BUSINESSMEN are leaning over a THIRD.

Phil walks straight up to the BLUE-FACED MAN, grabs him from

behind, gets him in the Heimlich grip and squeezes sharply.

A bolus of food flies across the room. The victim coughs and

sputters, then starts breathing again.

Phil lets go of the grateful victim.

He exits.

Phil gets to the door and finds Rita standing there, looking at

him in awe.

Phil looks at his watch and rushes away.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - LATER

A gurney bursts through the double doors, paramedics and nurses

in attendance. The patient is a teenage girl, JANEY, totally

unconscious.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM - CONTINUOUS

The gurney is wheeled into the surgery.

Phil enters wearing a doctor's scrub suit and begins barking

orders.

She realizes she's never seen him before.

INT. CHILDREN'S WARD - LATE AFTERNOON

Sick CHILDREN in hospital gowns are gathered around Phil,

laughing and squealing. Phil is. making balloon animals.

Phil makes an animal really quickly.

Rita watches from the doorway, unseen by Phil.

The kids attack Phil. Lots of rolling around on the bed. Rita

watches, completely enthralled.

Finally, Phil extricates himself and exits to find Rita

waiting.

EXT . RESIDENTIAL STREET - A LITTLE LATER

Phil rushes down the sidewalk with Rita close behind him. He

stops under a tree and puts his arms out just as a YOUNG BOY

falls out of the tree and into his arms, knocking him to the

ground. The kid runs off unhurt as Phil gets back to his feet

and brushes himself off.

EXT. ALLEY - NIGHT

Phil kneels on the cold ground beside the old bum who lies

huddled against the wall, immobile.

Rita is standing by at the end of the alley, watching as Phil

examines him.

Phil writes something down on a small pad. He finishes, and

sets it down by the old man. Then he takes his coat and uses

it to cover the man up. A siren is heard.

Phil stands and walks away, as an ambulance pulls into the

alley.

She waits and watches.

The paramedics, BUD and ANDY, get out of the ambulance and

inspect the scene.

Bud picks up the note Phil left.

Rita steps closer.

Rita hands him the note and quickly walks away.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Rita catches up with Phil outside the Pennsylvanian, the town's

oldest and best hotel.

They enter.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

As Phil and Rita enter there is music coming from a side room.

The black velvet announcement board proclaims: KLEISER-SCOTT

WEDDING.

INT. PARTY ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Phil and Rita walk into a banquet room decorated with

streamers, balloons and flowers. There is a long buffet table

and a punch bowl. Another long table is loaded with wedding

gifts. A small band is playing.

People are dancing. The wedding party is dressed in rented

tuxedos and appropriately pouffy bridesmaid dresses.

Phil grabs two glasses of champagne and hands one to Rita.

The bride, DORIS, young and cheery, is on her way to see Phil.

She is dragging FRED, her groom, with her.

Phil reaches into his pocket, pulls out two tickets and hands

them to Doris.

Doris throws herself on Fred and jumps up and down. Fred grabs

the tickets.

Doris throws herself on Phil.

Doris gives Phil a kiss. She and Fred move on.

The band finishes a set. The guests stop dancing and head for

the refreshments. Phil and Rita are left alone for the moment

Rita stares into his eyes for a very long time, but sees only

good, true things.

Rita can't even speak. This is clearly the nicest thing

anybody has ever said to anybody.

Mary the piano teacher notices Phil.

Phil looks at Rita. She nods and shrugs.

Phil walks up to the platform and sits at the piano. He begins

to play a slow, serious, classical piece. Everyone falls

silent. It's so beautiful, Rita is almost in tears.

Then, after a pause to let the serious notes sink in, Phil

transforms the piece into a fast, lively, upbeat jazz romp.

Everyone is delighted, and as the rest of the band kicks in,

everyone grabs a partner and begins to dance.

An old coot, UNCLE LEO, grabs Rita and the two of them dance up

a storm.

Rit a looks over at Phil, joyously playing the piano.

EXT . STREET - NIGHT

It is snowing lightly. Phil and Rita are walking slowly, arm

in arm, close. They stop and embrace. Phil looks at Rita.

She looks like an angel.

Phil scoops up some snow and begins packing it down, furiously,

joyously, then rolling it into a large ball.

Ph il lifts the now larger chunk of packed snow and sets it on

a mailbox. Then he looks at her, and starts to sculpt it.

LATER

Phil is using a stick and the heat of his bare hands to model

a delicate fold in the snow sculpture. Several bystanders look

o n with interest as Phil stands back from his work.

It is an excellent likeness of Rita, the snow white as

alabaster, pure as marble, a beautiful and delicate homage.

Rita embraces Phil. They are about to kiss, looking deep into

each others eyes.

They kiss-- a long, deep, soul-stirring kiss.

Rita nods. They continue standing there, embracing, warming

each other in the cold night air.

They kiss again.

CLOSE UP - THE CLOCK

The digital clock-radio changes from 5:59 to 6:00. Silence.

No Sonny and Cher, no deejays-- nothing.

Phil sits up in bed. He looks around the room. Things are

different, messier. Then he sees the covers move. Wide-eyed

now, he looks over and sees Rita waking up, snuggling deep

under the covers.

Phil pounces on Rita, showering her with kisses.

Phil turns on the radio.

Phil kisses the radio.

Phil runs to the window and looks out.

HIS POV - THE STREET

The street ;is virtually empty, the town just waking up. Kids

are throwing snowballs.

Phil stops, thinks.

Phil opens the door and runs into the hallway wearing only

pajama bottoms.

Rita sits up in bed and waits. Suddenly, from somewhere else

in the inn comes the sound of Phil at the piano expertly

playing a difficult classical piece. He stops after a few

bars.

Phil runs back into the room.

He pounces on Rita again.

They kiss, passionately, hungrily.

He scoops her up in his arms.

INT. BREAKFAST ROOM - LATER

Phil and Rita, dressed now, enter and encounter Mrs. Lancaster

Phil hugs her.

He kisses her on the cheek and rushes out with Rita.

EXT. THE STREET - DAY

Phil and Rita walk down Main Street hand in hand.

A FLORIST steps out of the flower shop with a bouquet.

Phil smells the flowers, and hands the bouquet to Rita.

A car skids on the ice and smashes into a tree. Phil and Rita

rush over to help, but the driver waves that he's okay. Rita

and Phil continue their walk.

Phil and Rita walk off together.

Across the street, Larry is trying to get rid of Ned Ryerson

who is doggedly trying to sell him insurance.

Larry keeps trying to walk away, but Ned won't leave him alone.

Finally, Larry slugs Ned and storms off, leaving Ned

floundering in a snowbank.

Phil and Rita walk on as we pull up and away from Main Street

revealing the whole of Punxsutawney and the snowy countryside

that embraces it.

