With the sound of wind, of sand gritting against glass:

FADE UP ON:

A howling dust storm battering the doors and walls of a tiny

woodplank church.

Inside, huddled together against the rage outside, are a

small group of people. All in black, mostly elderly, they

kneel in prayer.

Before them, on the cramped altar, lies a man. Dressed in

the uniform of a general, surrounded by the silk softness of

his casket.

He's an old man, far from the crump of battles, consumed now

with stillness, listening to the prayers of old people. Of

desert wind, moaning through thin wood.

The candle beside his head flickers and wanes in the ceaseless

gusts, strains for life, then goes out.

EXT. DOWNTOWN LOS ANGELES - NIGHT

It's not the best part of town and probably never was. A

place of seedy, anonymous brick flophouses shackled by rusting

fire escapes, lying on an alley unique only for its bad

drainage. It's here, in the dim, flinty light, that a figure

enters.

Wearing a long coat and, despite the night, sunglasses, he

pauses on the slimy asphalt and gazes up the sides of the

flophouses, to their yellowish windows and competing Mexican

radio stations. One window, dark and quiet on the third floor,

catches his gaze.

There's a metal hand railing in the alley that the long-coated

figure effortlessly pops up onto. Sunglasses focused on the

window, he lowers himself into a motionless crouch, a perch,

on the railing with the ease of a crow. Or a gargoyle.

Dawn is a muddled, limp thing that does nothing to improve

the alley. The figure is still there, a motionless gargoyle

perched on the railing. Watching the window.

The shadows shorten, the air grows warmer, and now there's

movement behind the window.

The sunglassed gargoyle drops down off the railing, jumps up

to the first rung of the fire escape, and begins climbing.

BEHIND THE THIRD FLOOR WINDOW

Is a room as grim as we expect. Lumpy iron bed, sink that's

been pissed into one too many times, and SIMON; a man in a

tight sweater and dark sunglasses, busily emptying his pockets

on the ruined dresser: loose change, a town paper's obituary

column.

Simon's sunglassed eyes look up suddenly, his body

stifffening. He whips around to face the window just as it

EXPLODES into fragments.

The gargoyle LEAPS into the room on the trail of glass. Simon

spins and THROWS himself against the intruder. The two

STRUGGLE savagely across the room, SMASHING chairs.

Simon manages a grip on the gargoyle's face and POUNDS the

back of his skull against the wall. The gargoyle gets his

locked fists up and SWINGS them like a war club, SMACKING

Simon's face and SPRAWLING him backwards onto the bed.

The two, across the room for each other, pause.

Simon's climbed to his feet, the two men in sunglasses now

walking slow circles around each other.

The gargoyle drops his head and DRIVES himself into Simon,

who HAMMERS the gargoyle with his fists. Blood SMEARS.

The gargoyle's gotten free a knife that he JAMS into Simon's

leg. Pressing home his advantage, the gargoyle SLAMS Simon

up against the wall. He TEARS open Simon's shirt, digging

his fingers into the chest, RIPPING the skin aside, the first

plunging deep, CRACKING the sternum bone, pushing even

further, toward the blood gouged pumping beneath --

-- Simon PLOWS his knee up between the gargoyle's legs. Over

and over. Till the grip loosens and Simon SHOVES him to one

side, using the momentum and drives to SWING the body around

and at the shattered window. The gargoyle SMACKS the frame

and COLLAPSES, his head CRACKING on the sill and FORCING a

shard of glass through his neck.

Simon moves to the window and brushes aside the gargoyle's

sunglasses, revealing two totally empty eye sockets. Pushing

his thumbs into them, Simon uses the leverage to lift the

gargoyle off the sill and push his body out the window.

The gargoyle bounces once on the fire escape, then spread-

eagles thirty feet to the asphalt.

Somebody turns up their Mexican radio station.

The gargoyle's a wreck.

But he manages, slowly -- his shattered remains arguing every

inch -- to climb first to his knees, then miserably to his

feet. A bent, splattered, hopeless thing that manages to

stumble three or four feet before being HIT by a freeway-

speed firebird BOMBING down the alley.

The impact PINS the gargoyle to the grill and RAMS him into

a brick wall, CRUSHING a chest that BELCHES out a sickly,

bruised heart like a wet rag against the firebird's

windshield.

THREE FLOORS ABOVE

Simon leans against his splintered window and looks down at

the pinned and very finished body of the gargoyle. His own

shirt and pants are a mess of torn blood and his breathing

is difficult. Pain flashes across his forehead as he checks

that his own sunglasses still sit snugly on the bridge of

his nose.

At the sound of a distant siren Simon turns and quickly

finishes packing his duffle bag. Stiffly pulling on an

oversize surplus army jacket that partly conceals the damage

beneath, he picks up the bag and painfully shuffles out.

The gargoyle, still pinned to the wall by the firebird.

A FLASH bounces off his skin. Then another. He's being

photographed. Go wide and find him in the middle of a police

investigation. Bored blue uniforms, yellow barrier tape. The

usual.

A plain jane sedan pulls up and deposits THOMAS DAGGET,

thirties, tweed coat and steel notebook. He smiles at a couple

of cops, ducks under the yellow barrier, and nods a greeting

to an older uniform sergeant, BURROWS.

Thomas takes a deep, healthy breath. Burrows just stares at

him.

He eyes finally make their way to the gargoyle.

Burrows nods in the direction of a very shook up young man

sitting on the curb.

INT. FLOPHOUSE

Burrows and Thomas coming up the stairs.

They enter the room, which is, of course, totally trashed.

Thomas steps over the splintered furniture.

Thomas looks at the splashes of blood, overturned dressers,

a newspaper, the "Chimney Rock Republican"; one name in its

obit section circled.

Burrows sighs and checks his watch.

Amongst the glass fragments at Thomas' feet is a pair of

dark sunglasses. He picks them up, taps them in his palm,

and looks out the window down to the man with no eyes, pinched

between brick and chrome.

The sun sinking beneath the horizon of a vast and undulating

expanse of desert.

Travel through the landscape as the sky purples and darkens

and silhouettes tall, finger-like spires of volcanic rock.

Hear the coyotes, the wind making its constant, probing

search. Before the night swallows it all whole,

Come upon The Town.

It used to be something. But that's long gone. Now, wrapped

in the sucking blackness of a wilderness night, it's a shell

of a place.

Lights still burn in some of the windows but fool no one.

The ghosts are the majority here. Biding their time. Waiting

for The Town to surrender and slip beneath the waves of the

desert.

The wind slinks over the hills, creeps down past boarded-up

storefronts, skeletal ocitillo, and the rusting hulks of

abandoned mining equipment. The corpse of a summer's kite

twists slowly on a power line.

ON THE EDGE OF TOWN

From the inky oblivion of the road, comes a crunch of gravel.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF TOWN

Stands a large, nineteenth century brick schoolhouse. An

icon from a more prosperous past, its dark massiveness was

meant for scores of ruddy-faced miner's kids. Now it seems

to be imploding, eating itself with creeping decay. On this

night it is silent and dark but for a small glow in one corner

and the faint sound of children's voices in song.

It is a hymn. An ancient, Latin one. The melancholy beauty

of voices rising and falling in choir.

INSIDE THE BUILDING

Is a school auditorium. On the stage, dwarfed by it, are

twenty five students from first grade to high school, singing

together as a choir. A young woman, KATHERINE, directs their

acapella voices as the small group of parents, lonely in the

huge room, look on.

OUTSIDE

The voices drift on the night, down the road, and lap against

the peeling facade of a storefront. A mortuary.

INSIDE

The rooms are dark but for one. There, bathed in the

flickering light of a tall candle, lies the body of the old

general we saw at the opening.

THE FRONT DOOR

Of the mortuary has a locked handle that jiggles from outside.

A small panes of glass beside it is BROKEN by a hand.

IN THE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM

Young voices struggle with the complicated hymn and its pain

of centuries. Faces white, Mexican, Navaho. Katherine guides

them with soft hands. She smiles in pride. They smile back.

Proud. Of her. Of themselves and the beauty coming from their

mouths.

One small, beautiful navaho girl, MARY, maybe eight, gets a

special smile of special friendship from Katherine.

THE MORTUARY'S

Front door now stands ajar in the darkness. Small shards of

glass glisten in the carpet.

INSIDE

Is the dead General. Even in the bleached ravages of age and

death, his face still holds a shadow of vigor and pride.

It takes a moment in the weak flicker of the candle to realize

someone is there with him. Simon in his oversized surplus

jacket. His arms are folded tightly across his middle, as if

in deep cold. But his gaunt face is moist with sweat and his

breath is shallow and uneven. He stares at the old man behind

sunglasses and takes slow, cautious steps forward into the

amber glow.

Holding out two blood-stained fingers, Simon touches the

General's forehead. A new strain crosses his perspiring face.

Concentration.

Placing his right palm on the General's chin and the left on

his forehead, Simon CRACKS OPEN the dead man's mouth.

IN THE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM

The hymn is reaching its aching climax of medieval longing.

IN THE MORTUARY

Simon leans down to the open mouth, and in a voice soft and

deeply weary,

Then, with the school choir distant and faint in the night,

the living man places his mouth over that of the dead man...

IN THE SCHOOL AUDITORIUM

It's coffee and cake now as parents proudly hug their children

and congratulate their young teacher. Even in this gloomy,

crumbling building it's a warm, small town moment.

OUTSIDE

Simon has left the mortuary and now limps with difficulty

through the silent streets, leaning against shop walls for

support.

AT THE SCHOOL BUILDING

Through the doors out steps the eight year old Navaho girl,

Mary. Alone, she stands on the stone stairs and looks out

into the night with sensitive eyes. She concentrates. Knows.

Katherine follows her out.

The girl's eyes seem too serious for a child's. Too

perceptive.

Katherine looks out into the night.

Mary stares a moment longer, then becomes a child again,

smiling and popping Katherine one on the arm.

Mary suddenly points past Katherine's shoulder.

When Katherine turns Mary dashes back into the building.

Katherine chases after her.

AT THAT MOMENT

Simon comes limping up from the road. His breathing's bad

now as he moves stiffly along the school's brick walls, coming

to an old, rusty back door he creaks open and slides through.

INSIDE

He climbs a littered and disused staircase, past broken beer

bottles and condom wrappers to a dark and creaky second floor.

It's part of the school building long abandoned. Doors to

classrooms lie half off their hinges, windows are broken,

rats squeak between ancient desks stacked like funeral pyres.

Simon, his breath echoing in the cold darkness, shuffles

along the broken linoleum till he comes to a rectangle cut

in the wall where a row of lockers used to be. He crawls

into the space and there, surrounded by rot, curls up on

himself and sucks his thumb.

INT. APARTMENT

Thomas Dagget's eyes opening slowly. He sits up in his bed,

runs a hand through his hair, and looks out with only medium

enthusiasm at the morning.

INT. CHURCH

Thomas lights an offering candle and kneels for a brief,

silent prayer. He crosses himself, stands, and walks for the

door. Before leaving he glances back at the altar. A

questioning moment between two akward, estranged friends.

INT. POLICE CENTER

Thomas sits at his desk half-heartily trying to make sense

of the three dozen files piled there. Lt. Paul, his boss,

leans against a wall nearby.

INT. CORONER'S OFFICE

A set of golf clubs rest forelornly in the corner. An

irritable looking coroner fumes behind his desk as Thomas

enters.

The coroner just stares at him.

Thomas obeys as the coroner spreads out a stack of white

sheets.

Thomas sighs and climbs to his feet.

The coroner opens his desk and pulls out a small, ancient

looking leather bound book.

Thomas turns it over in his hand.

Thomas runs his finger across the gold-leaf cover.

Thomas opens the bible and there it is, in Latin, the

fourteenth chapter.

INT. POLICE OFFICE

Thomas at his desk, working under a lone gooseneck lamp.

He's translating the fourteenth chapter of St. John's

Revelations from Latin onto a slip of paper. Finished, he

sets the ancient bible down, turns off the gooseneck, and

leans back in his chair, alone in the dark.

EXT. DESERT - EARLY MORNING

Here, outside The Town, horizons are distant, faraway things.

The sky overhead is streaked red and blue with barely morning

as the screen door of a simple stucco house swings open.

It's Katherine, the teacher. Wearing levis and boots, she

carries a saddle swung over one denim shoulder out to a corral

behind the house where a horse shuffles and whinnies

impatiently.

Katherine throws the saddle over the horse and cinches it

down as the sun, still tucked behind pink and grey cliffs,

begins to heat up the sky.

EXT. SANDSTONE CANYON - MORNING

Deep and narrow, an idyllic canyon of compressed sandstone

walls smoothed, rounded and etched by centuries of wind. A

tiny creek flows past weak banks of scrub pine and pocked

sycamore. A silent place a long way and a long time from

anything but the approach of galloping hooves.

Katherine and her horse run full-out through the canyon, the

clack and splash of hooves echoing off steep, shadowed walls.

Horse and rider drive each other harder and harder, their

hot breath brief clouds in the arch, thin desert air.

Boulders shattered by winter cold and summer heat, deep wind-

cut caves hiding scorpions, sidewinders, or a wary mountain

lion all pass as in a blur; arrogant hawks and patient

buzzards, ruins of thousand year old Anasazi villages high

on the cliffs, their weather-beaten skulls, seen and unseen,

staring out; everything is one smear of color and smell as

Katherine gallops past them and up the cliff trail, out of

the canyon, and onto the main plateau.

ON THE PLATEAU

Katherine strokes her horse and feeds it a bag of carrots.

She pulls a thermos from the pack, sits down against some

old man rocks, and with the coffee steaming in her hand,

greets the sun now cresting the Chuska Mountains.

There's a rutted, silty dirt road nearby. An ancient, battered

school bus rattles its way past and stops. The bus driver, a

Navaho, JOHN, climbs down and rubbing the side of his head

painfully walks up to Katherine.

He holds out an empty cup Katherine fills. Sipping painfully,

he lays down beside her and pulls the brim of his baseball

cap over his eyes.

The bus is full of young school kids.

Katherine's horse snorts.

He finishes the coffee and climbs painfully to his feet.

He shuffles back to the bus.

The bus coughs alive and crawls forward. Katherine waves to

the faces behind glass, then settles back for a last moment

of peace as silence lays again over the land.

EXT. KATHERINE'S HOUSE - DAY

Showered and changed into her teaching clothes, Katherine

climbs into a rattling pickup.

EXT. THE TOWN

Katherine drives to work, passing on the outskirts the closed

copper mine, vast and abandoned. Down beyond the fading main

street lies the great crumbling brick pile that is the school.

Katherine parks her truck, grabs her leather bag, and walks

in.

Katherine's lecturing her students. All twenty-five of them.

There's high school age sons of white ranchers, Navaho girls

on the edge of puberty, tiny Mexican children. All being

taught together in one room.

It's dinosaur day. Katherine has a large fossilized bone on

her lap.

The little girls smile. They like Camposaurus. Katherine

holds up another bone fragment.

The little boys grin. They like Alosaurus.

Katherine lifts off the desk an ancient 1950s gieger counter

and switches it on. It ticks softly when she points it at

the dino bone.

The class CHEERS.

EXT. HILL - DAY

With the brick schoolhouse tiny in the background, Katherine's

class trudges its way up the barren, rocky hillside behind

the town. The teenage rancher's kids try to make time with

the Mexican girls One of the little boys has gotten into a

shoving match with a little girl.

The girl folds her arms defiantly. The boy is pissed,

embarrassed.

Brian concentrates.

UP ON THE HILL

Katherine's given the geiger counter to the little Navaho

girl, Mary. Focusing grimly on the rock in front of her,

Mary guides the detector over the stones till suddenly it

begins clicking softly.

The high school kids come up and help dig.

Almost immediately, an eye socket appears in the dust.

As the students carefully brush away the dust, Katherine

looks back across the crumbly path. A coyote has crept up

onto a near ledge. It just stands there. Watching her.

INT. BIG CITY CHURCH

It's mostly empty at this time of day and the young man

sitting in the pew, staring at the altar, is alone. His name

is GABRIEL and he wears jeans, a faded leather jacket, and

dark sunglasses, even inside. His thin hair is slicked back

and there's an almost feminine quality about him.

He sits there a moment longer, staring, then gets up and

leaves.

EXT. DOWNTOWN ALLEY

The alley from the beginning. Gabriel pulls his old,

convertible rambler to a stop and walks into the flophouse.

INT. FLOPHOUSE

He comes upstairs to the landing, where the door to the room

is covered with a strip of yellow tape: POLICE INVESTIGATION.

DO NOT ENTER.

Gabriel pulls the tape aside and KICKS the door open.

INSIDE

It's still the disaster we remember. Gabriel walks slowly

through the room. He scratches up some blood, tastes it.

There's spray-painted outlines where the police have removed

certain items. Gabriel takes note of this, tastes the blood

again, and leaves.

EXT. KATHERINE'S CLASSROOM BUILDING - DAY

It's lunch break. Most of the students sit in loose cliques

around the front of the building; eating, skipping rope,

picking fights.

INSIDE

The recently unearthed skull sits on Katherine's desk. Feet

up beside it, she leans back in her chair looking through a

dinosaur book. One of her students, a twelve year old boy,

finishes cleaning up the floor and stands beside her.

The boy, still standing beside her, begins to look nervous.

Slowly, he lets his weight rest against Katherine's shoulder.

She smiles good naturedly up at him.

The boy immediately stiffens and begins backing up, almost

relieved.

Katherine watches him leave, smiles again, and goes back to

the book.

AROUND THE BACK OF THE BUILDING

On the abandoned back stairs, a couple of Mexican boys sit

smoking cigarettes. They whistle and kid with the four young

girls that pass them going up the steps.

UPSTAIRS

Is the abandoned, decayed part of the building. The four

girls know they're not supposed to be here and that's probably

half the fun. They run through the crumbling halls, giggling

and hiding from one another. Their cries, the smack of their

shoes, echo off off the peeling halls.

One of them is Mary, running down a hall, banging a stick

with another girl. At a corner Mary peels off from her friend,

runs down a new hall, turns a corner,

And comes on Simon. He's still curled where we last saw him,

in the wall niche where some lockers used to be. The two

stare at one another. Finally,

Mary thinks.

You can hear her friends coming closer.

Mary goes to leave, stops, turns back.

She smiles and runs down the hall. Simon grits his teeth,

turns to the wall, and prepares himself for a long, long

day.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

An old fifties two-level, Polynesian lamps and glitter stucco,

now faded and browinish with water stains. Gabriel, the young

man with the sunglasses and leather jacket we last saw kicking

down the door at the flophouse, walks up the apartment's

stairs to the second level, knocks once, and opens the door.

THE APARTMENT INSIDE

Hasn't been very well looked after lately. Either has the

occupant. Sitting slumped in a kitchen chair, staring at the

floor, he peers through dully yellow eyes that barely seem

to register his visitor.

The eyes lift to Gabriel, revealing a pale, bloodless face

eaten with dried sores.

Gabriel drops into the chair across from Jerry and pushes

aside with distaste the maggot-ridden plates of food piled

on the table. He reaches his hand out to Jerry.

Gabriel puts his hand under Jerry's chin and turns the face

side to side, examining the cracked, decaying skin and filmy

eyes.

Gabriel releases Jerry's chin and slouches down in the chair.

A dark, intestinal looking amber fluid begins to pool out of

Jerry's pant leg.

A tear wells in Jerry's decomposing face.

Gabriel gets up, pats Jerry on the head, and walks to the

door.

The SLAM of a racquetball against the scarred white wall of

an indoor court. It ricochets off the ceiling, hits the back

glass partition, and is SLAMMED again. Four players, including

Thomas, grunt and sweat across the hardwood floor. It's

brutal. Shoulders and knees bang off one another.

One of the players falls back, yells to Thomas.

Thomas dives into position to make the save, recovers, and

yells to the player as he dashes to the next corner.

The player SLAMS it brutally at Thomas, who misses miserably.

Another player picks up the dead ball and puts his arm around

Thomas.

Player #2 tosses the ball to Thomas, who serves, and the

scuffling is back on. Shouts to one another. Promises of

support.

Thomas and Player #2 team up on a third player, pressing him

hard. Suddenly Thomas breaks back, intercepts the ball, and

drives against Player #2. The about-face is too abrupt for

him and Player #2 is eliminated in a double-cross. He smiles

proudly at Thomas.

INT. GYM LOCKER ROOM

Thomas and the three players congratulate each other on the

evil and treachery in each other's strategies as they shower

down.

Laughs.

INT. LOCKER ROOM DRESSING AREA

As Thomas combs his hair and slips on his regimental

detective's suit 'n tie, the other three put on their black

pants, shirts, and stiff white Roman collars. They're priests.

Two of the priests hoist their gym bags and head for the

door.

Thomas is left alone with Player (priest) #2, Bill.

He pulls the bible out of a cloth sack and hands it to Bill.

EXT. GYM

Thomas walks Bill out to his car.

EXT. DOWNTOWN - DAY

The building is squat and brick. A non-descrip warehouse

that subs as a police evidence storage area.

The sun is hard today as it beats down on Jerry's large-

brimmed felt hat. Daylight and Jerry don't get along very

well. His sunken, filmy eyes squint at its glare. The decayed

flesh cracking along his cheeks flames at its touch. He

shuffles down the sidewalk, the brackish, amber fluid that

gurgles down his leg filling his shoes and leaving behind

shiny wet footprints like a snail.

There's nobody around the back door and its unlocked. Jerry's

shrunken claws pull it open.

INSIDE

Is a crush of filing cabinets and erector-set shelves. All

of it crammed with low grade stuff. The heroin busts and

million dollar currency arrests don't end up here. Here it's

all shoe boxes and dusty files. Fragments of small lives

forgotten.

Jerry pulls the brim of his hat down even further as he works

his way past rack after rack. The single uniform he meets

looks only casually at Jerry's lapel ID badge. It's on the

third shelf he finds it. John Doe #78. Jerry lifts the box

and walks out.

INT. COUNTY BUILDING BASEMENT

Gabriel steps off the elevator and follows the signs for

MEDICAL EXAMINER. Along the way he passes a checkpoint guard.

Gabriel walks back to the guard, smiles, and KNOCKS him clean

out of his chair with the back of his arm. The guard SMACKS

against the wall and crumples out of view.

INT. MORGUE

Tiled floor and refrigerated corpses. Nobody's around when

Gabriel enters. He walks over to a file cabinet and removes

a thick folder. Then he walks to the big filing cabinets,

the ones that hold a body in each drawer. He strolls along,

tapping each label till he finds the one he's looking for,

slides it open, and looks down at the naked body of the

gargoyle.

He's been sewed back together. Kind of. Gabriel grabs the

eyeless corpse under the armpits and drags him out onto the

floor where he pushes the legs together and outstretches the

arms, like a crucifix. From his coat Gabriel takes out a

small vial of oil and rubs it onto the gargoyle's feet and

hands. Anointing them. Then with the tip of his finger, he

draws a faint sign of the cross on the forehead, stands, and

walks for the door.

In the background, as Gabriel leaves, we see the body of the

gargoyle BURST into flame.

INT. KATHERINE'S SCHOOL

Katherine's students are shuffling back from lunch to their

seats, making small talk and paper airplanes. Katherine does

a head count, then stops a young boy coming through the door.

The girls, Mary's friends, shrug innocently. Katherine sighs.

Katherine closes the door behind her. The class immediately

erupts into goofing off. The door opens again.

IN THE ABANDONED PART OF THE BUILDING

Katherine walks through decayed and rusting halls.

It's spooky up here. A part of the building Katherine clearly

dislikes.

Katherine calls out Mary's name a few more times, turns a

few more corners, and suddenly comes on her.

Mary's sitting beside Simon, the bleeding, ashen-faced man

with sunglasses. She's giving Simon a piece of sandwich and

a coke. Katherine is instantly wary.

Mary reluctantly walks over to Katherine.

Mary frowns, waves once to Simon, and leaves. There's a

heaviness to the air around Simon. A kind of buzzing.

Katherine blinks her eyes a few times. Focuses.

That buzz. Katherine rubs the side of her temple.

Katherine turns and leaves, her footsteps fading. Mary appears

again.

She takes a couple of shy steps toward him.

As she does --

Katherine, outside the building, rounding up some of the

kids who decided to take an impromptu recess. Hustling the

last one up the stairs, she pauses suddenly. She hears

something. Faint coughing.

Katherine walks back around the side of the building and

sees Mary bent over, vomiting. Katherine rushes up to her.

Mary coughs up the last of her lunch.

Katherine wipes off Mary's mouth with a hanky.

EXT. TOWN - DAY

Katherine drives Mary home, a dusty, tired mobile home slumped

among the saguaro and tumbleweed on the edge of town.

INT. MOBILE HOME

Mary and Katherine pull open the door and enter. Mary's

elderly grandmother is sitting watching "All My Children".

She smiles at Katherine and looks at Mary with concern as

the little girl rubs her stomach and explains something in

Navaho.

IN THE BEDROOM

Katherine helps tuck Mary in bed as her grandmother brings a

glass of water.

The grandmother sits beside Mary, whispers gently in Navaho,

and softly stokes her brow.

IN THE LIVING ROOM

IN THE BEDROOM

Alone and tucked into bed, Mary stares off at something very,

very far away.

INT. THOMAS'S APARTMENT

The sun orange and fading outside his window, Thomas drifts

off into a nap on his couch. The phone rings.

INT. MORGUE

On the floor is the smoldering, blackened outline of a body.

A thick, slimy goo gurgles and pops. The whole room is afoul

with acrid smoke.

Thomas jams his hands in his pockets and leans against an

autopsy table. Watches the smoke curl slowly up from the

impossibly melted goo in front of him.

Thomas pulls out out his notebook.

INT. JERRY'S APARTMENT

Gabriel crouches on the linoleum and pours everything out of

the evidence box onto the floor. He sifts through it, a smile

appearing when comes across the Chimney Rock Republican and

its circled obituary.

Jerry is looking worse by the day. A rotting, oozing fissure

has opened on his forehead. His right eye doesn't move

anymore. He sits on a kitchen chair glumly.

INT. POLICE STATION

Thomas sits hunched over his notes from the first day of the

investigation. Written in it is the Chimney Rock Republican

and the obituary name of General Arnold Hawthorn. Lt. Paul

sits down in the chair opposite.

Thomas slowly closes his notebook.

The Lt. rubs his eyes tiredly.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

On an utterly lonely blacktop, Gabriel shoots by in his top-

down rambler, insignificant in the night's vastness. Jerry's

in the back, feet up on the seat.

Gabriel suddenly stands on the brakes, SCREECHING the rambler

to a dusty stop. He kills the engine and everything is

instantly whispering night and coyote howls. Gabriel climbs

out and walks to the edge of a cliff. Far below, nestled

among the finger-like spires of volcanic cones, lies The

Town. Twinkling lights in a cold, dark embrace.

Gabriel pushes his sunglasses up his nose and smiles.

Two coyotes begin fighting and snarling with each other in

the dust nearby.

EXT. GRAVEYARD - NIGHT

On a low hill at the edge of town. Cracked, sinking

headstones. The rambler's parked next to a new one, Slim

Pickens on the AM, as Jerry digs up the fresh grave marked

General Arnold Hawthorne. Gabriel sits perched on the

headstone over the grave like a winged creature.

Jerry's shovel CLANKS onto something hard. He scrapes away

the dirt, revealing a coffin lid. With a socket wrench Jerry

removes the fastening bolts, then with the edge of his shovel,

pries open the lid.

It's the ancient, wasted general we saw at the beginning.

His medals flash in the moonlight.

Gabriel leaps off his perch down into the grave.

Gabriel reaches down, places one hand on the General's

forehead, one on his chin, and BREAKS the mouth open. He

gazes down into it. Then suddenly stiffens and straightens

up.

Gabriel frantically look in the ears. Up the nose.

Gabriel BANGS the coffin lid in frustration. Tries to think.

INT. THOMAS'S APARTMENT

The numbers on the clock radio roll over five AM and the

news comes on. Thomas stirs in bed, rubs his eyes, and looks

out at a sky untouched by any sign of dawn.

In coat and tie, Thomas sits in his spartan kitchen stirring

a coffee when the phone rings.

Thomas looks up at his overnight bag, sitting half-packed on

the dresser.

He cradles the phone, stares at it, then picks up his

overnight bag.

EXT. THE TOWN - NIGHT

Silent and dead at this hour. Gabriel's boots creak on the

floorboards of the 19th century plank sidewalks. He taps his

finger aimlessly along plate glass shop windows.

Jerry, limping on a foot that's caving in on itself, wiping

the spinal fluid out of his dead eye, shuffles along behind.

Gabriel pops off the elevated sidewalk, grabs a parking meter

and swings himself playfully around.

Gabriel suddenly freezes. He sticks his nose up, sniffs like

a coyote, then abruptly drops to the ground in a push-up and

smells the dirt. Tastes it with his tongue. Smiles.

INT. THE SCHOOL BUILDING - NIGHT

A fracture of broken moon tumbles through shattered windows

and falls dully across shapes old, shapes forgotten, and one

shape trying hopelessly to drag itself across the floor.

It's Simon; breath a rasp, blood-soaked pants leaving a long

smear behind him like a hemorrhaging snail. He coughs, drags

an arm across the lenses of his sunglasses,

And looks up at a pair of black, lizard-skin boots.

Simon rolls on his back and sighs.

Simon looks up at puss-faced Jerry, leaning quietly in a

dark corner.

Gabriel sits down against the wall.

Gabriel turns his boot to the moon, watches the pale light

glint back off the lizard scales.

Simon suddenly JUMPS to his feet. Tries to escape. Jerry

trips him, SPRAWLING Simon back to the floor.

Gabriel walks over to him. Puts his face close.

Simon doesn't answer. Gabriel shrugs.

Gabriel pauses, almost thoughtfully. Then he smiles.

Gabriel grasps Simon's hand.

Gabriel's hand is suddenly on Simon's face, fingers spread,

claw-like. They press into the flesh. Hard. And harder. Until

Simon starts to bleed.

Then to burn.

INT. KATHERINE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Katherine startles abruptly in her bed at the faraway sound

of Simon's screams. Screams carried either on the wind or

her dreams.

INT. MARY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Asleep, sweaty, shivering, Mary suddenly opens her eyes.

INT. THE SCHOOL BUILDING - NIGHT

Gabriel releases his grip on Simon, letting him fall back

against the wall, afire. His clothes twist and blacken. His

skin creeps and pops. His sunglasses melt and fall away;

revealing two hollow pits beneath. Gabriel lifts Simon's

entire body up off the floor by just the disintegrating face,

and stares into the hollow pits.

And the fires go out. Gabriel drops the crackling, acrid

body onto the floor. Impossibly, through the sizzling mucus

and molten hair, it breathes. It gasps in pain. It won't

die.

EXT. THE TOWN

The skies above lighten and smear blue and red.

KATHERINE

Finishes dressing for school, picks up her teaching bag, and

crunches out across the gravel to her pick-up.

INT. THE SCHOOL BUILDING

Gabriel's lizard boots pace back and forth past Simon's

writhing, burning body. Gabriel's more jittery now. Losing

his patience. He bends down and pulls Simon's face up to

his.

The seared skin around Simon's mouth comes off in Gabriel's

hand. But Simon is still, even now, silent.

He flings Simon with a horrible crunch against the wall.

He walks over and places a hand with something like friendship

on Simon's charred shoulder.

And with the other hand Gabriel JAMS his fist into Simon's

chest, PULLING OUT a lumpy, burned heart. Simon's mouth

springs open and hisses emptily. Gabriel slips the heart

into his pocket and lets go of Simon's shoulder. The body

instantly disintegrates and crashes to the floor.

EXT. THE TOWN - MORNING

Katherine squints at the morning glare as she drives through

town. Pulling into the school's drive she sees, parked at

the building's back door, a sheriff's patrol car.

INT. SCHOOL BUILDING

Katherine comes up the stairs of the building's abandoned

floor, passing the stacks of rotting desks toward where she

last saw Simon. There's a bad smell in the air.

At a turn stands a deputy that looks up as Katherine

approaches.

Katherine looks past him to where a second deputy crouches

down beside... beside something. It's human shaped, but like

a shadow. A shadow twisted in agony and slicked with a tarry,

smoldering ooze. The smell is overpowering. The crouched

deputy has a handkerchief over his mouth.

EXT. MARY'S FAMILY TRAILER - DAY

Katherine pulls-up and parks.

INSIDE

Mary is still in bed, droopy-eyed and sweating. Her

grandmother is there, and so is an elderly Navaho. He stands

beside Mary's side, holding above her body a clenched pouch

that he passes slowly back and forth.

The old man mumbles a soft chant as he moves the pouch back

and forth across Mary's body.

EXT. MARY'S FAMILY TRAILER - DAY

Katherine walks back out toward her pickup. She stops. Thirty

yards away, almost invisible in the sage say for the glare

of its evil, intelligent eyes, is a coyote. As she feels

it's gaze a shadow suddenly crosses her shoulder. Katherine

turns quickly but only barely catches, out of the corner of

her eye, a glimpse of something very large.

And winged.

A huge semi ROARING deafeningly past on an empty desert

highway, KICKING UP a dusty cyclone that drifts over a one-

horse gas station and Thomas, sitting there in his car

checking a map.

EXT. COUNTY BUILDING - DAY

Small townish; old adobe and stucco walls, cannon on the

front lawn, every door loudly declaring itself a department:

SOCIAL SERVICES, COURTS, and, SHERIFF.

INSIDE

The Sheriff's personal office is turn of the century regal,

with high beam ceilings and rotating fans. Nothing seems

newer than 1940, including the coffee pot the Sheriff pours

a mugful from. Trim with glasses, bolo tie and boots, he

looks like Barry Goldwater.

He hands the coffee to Thomas, sitting in a chair beside his

solid oak desk.

The Sheriff smiles.

She hands them to the Sheriff, who passes them on to Thomas.

He flips through the stack, comes up with nothing. The

secretary hands another, single sheet to the Sheriff.

Thomas perks at The Town's name.

The Sheriff's brow crinkles in consternation as he reads

further.

The Sheriff hands it to him. Glancing at it we pick up words

like BURNED, BLACK SLICK, BODY OUTLINE. Thomas copies the

name of the school down, gulps his coffee, and shakes the

Sheriff's hand.

Thomas's sedan passing through the vast, empty land.

FAR ON THE HORIZON

A small clump of buildings emerge clinging hopelessly to the

earth. The Town.

EXT. TOWN HOTEL - DAY

A former miner's hotel, stone walls and sagging wrought iron.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Thomas tosses his bag onto the bed, opens the balcony door,

and looks out on the crumbly shale hills, the abandoned

prospecting shacks, and the Chuska Mountains, clouds brewing

darkly across its shattered back.

A close-up of the circled newspaper obituary for General

Hawthorne. The paper lowers and reveals behind it the

general's grave. The dirt around the tomb is loose, recently

filled. The grave keeper, a young, gangly, drifter type stands

nearby with his shovel.

INT. THE SCHOOLHOUSE

Thomas's breath escapes in warm clouds here in the unheated,

abandoned part of the building. Rats scurry away from feeding

on the dark, human-like stain on the floor as Thomas crouches

down beside it. He probes the dried, black, crusty flotsam

with his ball-point pen. Just like the burned body back at

the morgue.

Far away you can hear the sounds of children. Of a teacher's

voice.

DOWNSTAIRS

It's only past the final door, into the smallest corner of

the building, that the walls become clean and brightly painted

by eager third graders. The creepy silence transforms itself

into the giggles of children as they bang open the classroom

door and whoop themselves outside for recess.

The last one out is Katherine. She's surprised to see Thomas.

Katherine unlocks a hall cabinet and pulls out a stack of

volleyballs. She tosses two to Thomas.

Arms full, she pushes the building door open with her shoulder

and backs out into the sunshine. She tosses the balls out to

the kids.

She sits down beside Thomas on the building's stone steps.

The children skitter back and forth playing.

Thomas starts away. Pauses.

ACROSS THE STREET

Up the crumbly embankment, sitting perched on the roof of an

abandoned house, is Gabriel. He watches Thomas walk to his

car. He watches the children playing, lifting his nose to

snort the air, like a coyote.

INT. THE TOWN LIBRARY

Thomas sifts through some clippings on General Hawthrone.

Tactical genius. The man who saved Korea. Brutal. Almost

court marshalled a dozen times for his inspired savagery. A

truly ruthless man -- who spent the last twenty years quietly

tending his garden in a dying town.

INT. THE TOWN CHURCH

Small, simple, and woodplanked. The church we saw at the

beginning. Thomas sits there, staring at the candles, the

altar, the crucifix.

He's alone there. But for a creeping buzz. A feeling in the

air.

Thomas turns in surprise. Gabriel is kneeling in the row

behind, inches from his ear.

There's something cold and creepy about Gabriel. Out of place

in here. There's another sound. Teeth chattering far in the

back. Thomas turns and sees Jerry, deep in the shadows of

the choir box. Jerry waves.

Those sunglasses. Impenetrably dark. Like at the skid row

flophouse.

And he walks out, leaving Thomas alone in a place gone

suddenly cold.

INT. THOMAS'S HOTEL

There's a note waiting for him at the front desk: "Her name

is Mary Tsosie. You can talk to her at noon tomorrow. I'll

be at the VFW hall tonight -- Katherine."

INT. VFW HALL - NIGHT

Thomas sticks his head in through the door.

It's an Indian bingo game. Thomas' eyes drift down the table

packed with elderly faces and find Katherine and John the

Navaho bus driver. Katherine waves him over. Both her and

John are totally obsessed with the game, keeping track of

several cards.

Thomas lazily glances at his card, his eyes opening suddenly

wide.

INT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

A Navaho social in full swing -- square dancing. The Indian

band on stage plays deeply traditional, inspiring, -- Hank

Williams. John easily whirls Katherine around; a steely-eyed,

master square dancer. Thomas leans against the wall tugging

on a beer. When John releases her for another partner she

points at Thomas.

She leads him out onto the floor.

She smiles. Gets a smile out of him.

EXT. DANCE HALL - NIGHT

Couples drift off the building's porch and into the street

to cool off, smoke, and take a few hits off paper bags. John

leans against the brick wall, tugs liberally from his paper

bag, and exchanges war hoops with some friends across the

street. He passes the bag to Katherine and Thomas.

EXT. ROAD - NIGHT

Thomas sits in the truck's bed as they Katherine drives

through town. John, on the near side of royally toasted, has

his boot stuck out the passenger window. Thomas looks up at

the night sky. At its blaze of stars.

John drinks again from his bottle, rests his head on the

open window and looks out.

INT. JOHN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Early American bachelor. John collapses onto the couch as

Katherine heads for the kitchen.

She messes with the grounds and filter. Thomas paces the

room, looks over the pictures and a few weavings.

John closes his eyes and drifts off. Thomas wanders into the

kitchen.

She hands him a mug of coffee.

EXT. HOTEL - NIGHT

Katherine pulls up to drop Thomas off.

Thomas climbs out.

Thomas lying in his hotel bed, flinching through a dream-

filled sleep.

There's glimpses of shattered images: War. Death. And a small,

dark-haired girl. Thomas's eyes open and fix on the ceiling.

Out his window, perched on the railing of his balcony, is

something dark and winged.

The honey warmth of dawn heats the bluish, quiet streets of

The Town. Across shale hills and abandoned 19th century

miner's shacks, there echoes the faint, clear notes of a

trumpet. The bluesy notes drift over narrow dead-end streets,

junked cars, and the abandoned copper mine out past the end

of town.

INT. MINE

Deep in the tunneled rock, past the rusting conveyor belts,

Gabriel sits in a small cave blowing Miles Davis on his

trumpet. There's just the blanket he sits on and a single

candle. Jerry comes around the corner.

EXT. THE SCHOOLHOUSE - MORNING

As Katherine climbs out of her pick-up she sees several of

her students standing in a circle. Crouched in the center,

talking to them, is a man. Gabriel. Jerry stands nearby.

Gabriel is showing a boy his trumpet. Demonstrating where to

put his fingers.

The boy puffs lightly. The trumpet emits a piercing, clear

note that SHATTERS a window high up in the abandoned part of

the building. The youngsters whoop and applaud.

As Timmy opens his mouth we clearly see Gabriel looking down

into it. Looking for something...

Katherine approaches the scene warily. The children all beg

for their turn. Gabriel selects Sandra, one of Mary's second

grade friends, and puts her on his knee.

She can barely get her fingers around the trumpet.

He gently pushes down her chin with his thumb, opens her

mouth, and gazes in.

Katherine enters the circle.

Gabriel looks up, unperturbed, and smiles.

The kids reluctantly shuffle off.

He has the same sunglasses as Simon. The same cold, creepy

air about him.

Jerry suddenly snorts loudly, trying to retrieve a sticky

red glop that starts running out of his nose.

He climbs to his feet and stands close to her.

He stands there a beat. That terrible coldness that swirls

about him. The shriek of ghosts under his breath. Then he

climbs into the rambler with Jerry and pulls away. Katherine

watches the car drive off, then yells over to the school

janitor.

Katherine gets into her pickup and starts the engine.

EXT. THE TOWN - DAY

Katherine drives through the main drag and out past the fringe

of town. As she passes the old copper mine she sees, parked

near the mine's tunnel entrance, Gabriel's rambler.

EXT MARY'S GRANDMOTHER'S TRAILER - DAY

As Katherine pulls up, she's surprised to see Thomas climbing

out of his own car.

On the sandy lot that extends back from the trailer is a

wizened cottonwood tree. Katherine, Thomas, and Mary are

seated beneath its shade. Katherine is protective of the

little girl, running a hand maternally through her hair.

There's a dreamy, far-away look in Mary's eyes. It worries

Katherine.

Mary lowers her head and shuts her eyes.

Thomas and Katherine exchange looks. Mary's pretty eyes rise

again as she calmly asks, in that cute little eight year old

voice:

Thomas looks to Katherine for an explanation, but she's as

confused as him.

Mary's been explaining this in a girlish, show-'n-tell kind

of way. Suddenly her face cracks as her voice chokes with a

sob.

She buries herself into Katherine's arms, sobbing.

Mary suddenly pushes away and runs back toward the trailer,

into the arms of her grandmother.

The grandmother turns and walks back to the trailer.

Katherine turns from trailer and looks at him.

INT. THOMAS'S CAR - DAY

Katherine and Thomas drive back down the road leading to

town.

He pulls over to the side near the copper mine entrance. No

sign of the rambler.

Thomas drives up the dirt path to the mine's tunnel entrance.

They climb out and stand near its mouth. In the dust is the

rambler's tracks and several footprints leading into the

mine.

Thomas steps up to the edge of the tunnel. It's a black,

yawning thing that swallows the sunlight whole for breakfast.

He pops his trunk and takes out a flashlight.

Thomas switches on the light and takes a tentative step

inside.

INT. THE MINE

The sun very quickly becomes a memory. And after the first

bend it isn't even that anymore. There's only the glow of

the flashlight; glancing off the abrupt edges of tunneled

rock. Here and there are the flotsam of a bankrupt industry;

dented ore carts lying on their side, rusted drill bits,

piles of support timbers. And all around them the sucking

blackness of the earth.

They walk further down into the mine. The atmosphere becomes

close and creepy. Thomas has been following tracks left in

the dusty floor that abruptly disappear. He stops and sighs.

-- A BAT suddenly SHRIEKS out of the darkness, glancing off

Thomas's shoulder and TANGLING in Katherine's hair. She

screams and spins around, loosing her footing and half falling

into a yawning ore chute she hadn't seen beside her. Thomas

rushes over and pulls her out. She climbs shakily to her

feet.

Thomas takes a last pass at the mine shaft with his

flashlight.

As he turns to leave the flashlight burns out.

He bangs it once against his thigh before he notices for the

first time a dim, amber light coming from a space between

the rocks.

But his gun's out at his side. Just in case. They follow the

light to the gap in the rock, gingerly stepping into

A CAVERN

-- That could easily belong to a bum. It's Gabriel and Jerry's

digs. Just the moldy blanket, single oil lamp, piles of

twinkie wrappers,

And something else.

From outside the cave it's the same whine, the same blurryness

that drips off Gabriel like sweat. But once they step into

the room, into the lair, it suddenly jumps in volume. This

is where Gabriel sleeps, and it's thicker here, like honey

on the walls. Thomas has difficulty focusing his eyes.

But Thomas can't hear Katherine anymore, her voice has

disappeared beneath the whine. As it becomes too much he

leans his weight against the rock wall and shuts his eyes.

It's then they come. Flashes of images: Of screams and fire.

Of impossible vistas of emptiness and death. And shrieking

overhead, shrieking everywhere; grotesque, winged creatures

with no eyes. Some with faces we know; Gabriel, Simon, and

the gargoyle. All these images are being jammed into both

their minds by the cave.

Thomas forces his eyes open but the scenes playing all around

him won't go away. Tears are running down Katherine's face

as she stands there locked in the same images. Thomas stumbles

about the room as if drunk, the visions, incomprehendibly

black visions of war and destruction on an alien plateau,

eat his brain. He sinks to his knees and begins to cry.

Katherine's curled up on the floor like a child, weeping.

The images are driving them mad. Thomas, fighting the insanity

pounding at him, crawls pathetically across the floor to the

oil lamp. His fingers grasp it spasmotically as he rises to

his knees and leans back.

He HEAVES the lamp against the cave wall, where it EXPLODES,

the oil erupting into a swirling blaze that CONSUMES the

corner.

The images break a second in the heat and light and sucking

wind. Just long enough for Thomas to grab Katherine's arm

and pull her out of the room.

EXT. MINE - DAY

Katherine and Thomas lie in the dust outside the mine's tunnel

entrance. Catching their breath. Trying to organize and repair

the short circuits in their brains. Thomas rolls on his side,

squints at the sun. Katherine's voice is faint and raspy.

He squeezes a handful of dirt in his hands.

The tears start rolling down her face. She looks up and shouts

at the endless sky above them.

He laughs hopelessly at the insanity of it all.

Katherine climbs abruptly to her feet and walks for the car.

INT. THOMAS'S CAR

Katherine and Thomas drive along in silence. Finally,

INT. MARY'S GRANDMOTHER'S TRAILER

Katherine and Thomas open the trailer door and enter

cautiously.

Thomas looks out the window and notices for the first time,

parked behind the trailer, Gabriel's rambler. He immediately

pulls out his pistol, runs for the closed door at the end of

the hall and KICKS it in. The door FLIES open, revealing

Gabriel sitting on the bed beside Mary.

His gun's leveled at Gabriel's head. The angel sits there

impassively, then smiles.

Jerry suddenly LEAPS out from behind the door and TACKLES

Thomas to the carpet. The gun skitters to one side as Jerry

SINKS his rotting teeth into Thomas's shoulder. Thomas cries

out and SLAMS his fist against Jerry's head, knocking off an

ear.

Gabriel turns back to Mary's frightened face and smiles as

he runs a hand through her hair.

Katherine suddenly HAMMERS Gabriel across the side of the

head with a chair, KNOCKING him to the floor. As he gets up

she HITS him again.

Thomas manages to bring his leg up and KICKS Jerry hard

against the chest, forcing him off.

Gabriel GRABS both of Katherine's legs and PULLS, CRASHING

her flat on her back.

Thomas scrambles for his gun, grabs it, and as Jerry comes

at him again spins and FIRES twice. The slugs RIP into Jerry's

chest and knock him to his knees. As the putrid, curdled

juices pump lumpily out of him, Jerry looks up at Thomas and

smiles.

Thomas FIRES a slug into his forehead. Jerry's brain winks

out as he collapses to the floor, dead.

Thomas's gun is abruptly WRENCHED from his hand onto the bed

as Gabriel NAILS him with a thrown lamp, vaults the bed

between them, and grabs him by the collar, SLAMMING Thomas

up against the wall. He looks down at Jerry's finally lifeless

corpse, incensed at Thomas's handiwork.

He THROWS Thomas down onto a table, SPLINTERING it. Katherine

climbs shakily to her knees.

Gabriel walks over to the bed. The moment he gets close,

Mary lifts Thomas's pistol up from the sheets and SHOOTS him

twice, the impact KNOCKING him on his ass.

Katherine rushes to Mary, scoops her up and runs for the

door. She pauses beside Thomas, still lying in the wreckage

of the table.

Katherine disappears through the bedroom doorway.

Gabriel spins around and stands. Thomas leaps from a ragged

crouch, HITTING Gabriel low with a body-block.

It's like butting concrete.

Gabriel picks up Thomas by the scruff of the neck and HEAVES

him THROUGH the flimsy room paneling. Thomas CRASHES with a

mass of splinters into the kitchen. He stumbles backward

hopelessly as Gabriel peruses him through the trailer. He

desperately throws pots, glasses, anything at Gabriel. Finally

trapped, he scrambles up onto the dinner table, SCATTERING

salt and sugar bowls, and DIVES through the levored window.

OUTSIDE

Thomas, in a hail of shattered glass, smacks the red earth,

pulls himself up to his knees and tries to stumble and crawl

away as Gabriel BANGS open the trailer door and stomps down

the stairs toward Katherine, her arms around Mary.

He eases his gait, measuring the distance to her.

There's just those sunglasses coming. Those endless pits of

black.

Katherine lifts Thomas's pistol and FIRES. Again. Again. The

slugs BANG off the corregated metal, SMASH a window, KICK up

some dust,

And PUNCTURE the propane tank beneath the trailer.

-- WUMPP-BAM!

The entire trailer EXPLODES in a fiery cloud of TWISTING

METAL.

Katherine huddles Mary close to the ground as flaming chunks

WHACK everywhere.

Gabriel is HAMMERED to the earth and disappears in the rolling

fire cloud. Thomas, further away, is KNOCKED head-over-heels

in the ruddy dust.

The fire cloud dissipates quickly into the sky, leaving behind

scorched brush, and little else, crackling softly. Gabriel's

body looks blackened and still. Katherine rushes to Thomas,

who's pulled himself up to his knees, a ragged slice above

his eye bleeding badly. She helps him to his feet and over

to the pickup, where he sits down against the tire as

Katherine pulls out her first aid kit. Mary's there, standing

with her shaken grandmother.

Mary's knelt down beside Thomas.

A sheriff car ROARS up, the two deputies exiting warily.

Katherine's wiping the blood out of Thomas's eye. Gasping

from the shearing pain, he tosses an ID at the foot of the

deputy.

From somewhere back in town there's the growl of a volunteer

fire engine.

The pain's unbareable. Katherine dabs his cut with

disinfectant.

Again, the pain.

The second deputy has walked over to Gabriel.

The volunteer fire engine growls up through the weeds,

drowning out Thomas's words. Two firemen kneel down beside

him with medical kits.

The deputy has walked over to his partner and the two are

dragging back between them a cuffed, comatose Gabriel.

Thomas tries to get up, but the pain and a hand from the

firemen keep him down. As the deputies pass, he manages to

desperately grab the one's pant cuff.

Gabriel's head lies low between the shoulders. The deputy

looks with concern at the firemen.

The deputy nods. As they carry on to the car with Gabriel,

the angel turns his head slightly and smiles a smile only

for Thomas.

The patrol car pulls away. As the firemen walk back to their

engine, Thomas looks frantically at Katherine.

They lock eyes. Then Katherine without a word helps Thomas

up into the passenger side of the pickup. Mary gathers her

grandmother into the pickup's bed and climbs up beside her

as Katherine starts the engine. The firemen turn in confusion

as the truck peels out of the lot and up onto the road.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Katherine's truck shoots by. Just before town, near the copper

mine, it slows down at a junction.

And there, lying on its side down the embankment, is the

sheriff's patrol car. A single, bent tire turns aimlessly.

Katherine hits the gas and takes the junction that leads

away from town, out onto the endless expanse of the plateau.

INT. TRUCK

The bandage on Thomas's forehead covers most of one eye. He

closes the other tightly, riding a spasm of pain, before

letting his forehead rest against the door glass and gazing

out at the empty tracks of land.

Katherine looks over her shoulder to Mary's grandmother

sitting in the truck bed. She nods in understanding.

Katherine's pickup passing alone through the wrinkled desert.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

A trading post with a few pumps, growing orange in the

weakening afternoon light. A scruffy dog barks constantly as

the teenage Indian sticks the nozzle in Katherine's pickup.

Still glassy-eyed with throbbing pain, Thomas takes another

handful of aspirin and climbs out of the cab.

There's a tiny, weatherbeaten church across the weedy lot

from the trading post with a pay phone bolted to it. Thomas

crunches across the lot, picks up the receiver, and punches

in some numbers.

And Thomas hangs up. He backs away from the phone and for

the first time notices the church it's attached to.

INT. CHURCH

Thomas steps inside. It's empty and there's some doubt whether

it's been used in a generation. The pews are dusty and

scraped, some broken down completely. Thomas sits in one and

looks across the space and dust and years to the crucifix

hanging behind the altar.

The pew creaks and groans as he shifts his weight.

Jesus' pressed-metal eyes gaze only upward.

Thomas holds his face in his hands a silent moment. When it

raises we see the raw hurt in the eyes as he shouts,

The only reply is dust dancing in the light and the rumble

of semis on the highway.

Standing in the back, watching Thomas with tears welling in

her eyes, is Katherine.

The road's turned to dirt and the plateau into a maze of

ragged cliffs and brutally hacked canyons.

The light is shadowy and golden now as Katherine's pickup

turns off the small dirt road onto an even smaller one that

winds impossibly up the side of a volcanic butte.

Higher and higher the truck climbs on the rutted and

treacherous path, till at last it crests the ridge and comes

upon

THE VILLAGE

Perched frighteningly on the leading edge of Old Woman Butte,

this is the home of the Bitter Sky Clan. The village is a

small grouping of ancient adobe walled hogans first built a

thousand years ago by the Anasazi. There's no electricity

here, no TV antennas or frozen yogurt. Just the slow curl of

cooking fires drifting up through smoke holes and the stern,

deeply lined face of an old Navaho man approaching the pickup

as Katherine stops.

The old man wears jeans, a bright maroon silk shirt, and a

black felt reservation hat with a turkey feather. He holds

in his right hand a small leather case.

The old man, Bartholomew Grey Horse, walks up to Mary and

her grandmother sitting in the bed.

Several villagers approach and greet Mary and her grandmother,

some nodding politely to Thomas and Katherine as they climb

out of the cab. Nearly all of them are elderly.

Thomas, one eye still half-shut by a bandage, walks over to

the village's edge where a short stone wall, and little else,

separates the adobe homes from the long, 2000 foot drop to

the desert floor. He leans against it and gazes out on a

view that must encompass half the world. In all directions,

for tens upon tens of miles, there are only volcanic spires

and crumbling buttes, all reduced from up here to short,

ominous playthings. A village truly alone in the world.

She's appeared beside him. Thomas crouches down to her level

and smiles.

Mary's sight is on the view, eyeing it critically.

Thomas's voice sighs sadly as he runs a hand softly through

her hair.

Mary's eyes fill with tears as her grandmother appears and

leads her back to the adobe hogans.

Grey Horse, the yataalii, is there now.

Night creeps over the Chuska Mountains across the crusty

caliche flats and over the village, pushing back the dying

day to a thin, fading blue line etched across the horizon.

As the darkness settles on the hogans we see a glimmer of

light from within and the rising, guttural chants of the

yataalii.

INT. KIVA - NIGHT

Under the village, beneath the surface of the butte, is the

large communal kiva room. Accessible by a single ladder

through a single smoke hole, it is down here that the village

performs its Enemy Ghost Way for Mary.

The little girl is there, attended by her grandmother, sitting

stoically still on a blanket as Grey Horse, grasping his

painted prayer sticks, by the glow of a fire chants the Enemy

Ghost Way cure. Katherine's eyes sting in the smokey air as

she watches Grey Horse take from his case small handfulls of

colored sand that he pours in fine patterns onto the floor.

The whole Bitter Sky Clan surrounds them. Old, lined faces.

A small, dying people here to support its last granddaughter.

EXT. VILLAGE - NIGHT

Katherine stands there in the chilly darkness outside the

kiva. Mary's grandmother, passing with some other women,

pauses and squeezes Katherine's arm.

INSIDE THE KIVA

The fire has died to embers, casting its weak glow on a now

empty room.

OUTSIDE

Katherine wanders along the edge of the village, turning up

her collar under a blinding mass of stars. There's nothing

beyond the village. Not a light, not a sound. Say the wind.

It is the icy brush of wind on her body that now whispers.

Like the wind, it is low and thin and hoarse. Like the wind

it seems to come from everywhere. And, like the wind, it is

utterly without pity or remorse.

Katherine turns.

Perched on the wall behind her in a low crouch is a figure

clad entirely in layers of black. Its head and hands are

hairless and waxy white. There are eyes in this winged head,

but blood chilling ones of putrid yellow. There are endless

scars and shapes and wrinkles, but mostly, only, there are

the eyes.

Katherine gulps down, with only partial success, the hysteria

rising in her throat.

It's takes all her strength to look upon him.

The eyes narrow. Rippling pools of unfathomable evil.

There's a crouched silhouette beside the figure. Dimmer.

Skinny. A wheezing sycophant. An afterthought.

Katherine backs away from both of them.

Katherine stops. Faces him.

The sycophant shivers and ruffles something feathery under

its cloak.

The figure cranes his neck around to the horizon beyond them.

The movement makes a liquid, snapping sound.

He turns back to her.

The figure shifts his perch on the wall.

The figure's face darkens.

The figure straightens up, stretching its spine.

INT. HOGAN

Thomas's sitting on the hard-packed floor, leaning against

the adobe wall, maybe trying to sleep. Mostly trying to ignore

the thumping pain in his head. The oil lamp's flame shudders

in the gust of Katherine opening the door.

She sits down on the floor beside him.

She carefully unwraps the blood-soaked gauze.

She peels back the compress and dabs the wound.

Thomas suddenly slams his fist against the wall in anger.

The ache in his head's flared up. He leans it back against

the wall to ease the pain.

Katherine finishes taping the new bandage.

A wind outside rustles through the hogans.

He pauses, the old emotions creeping back up on him.

He blinks back the tears welling in his eye.

The oil lamp wanes and fades. Katherine lays her head on

Thomas's shoulder, and as darkness swallows them he holds

her. They hold each other.

John the bus driver lying fully dressed on his bed asleep.

The night breeze through the window, and maybe something

else, tickles his nose. His eyes open, blink, turn left,

right, then up,

-- And see Gabriel perched on the headboard, staring down at

him.

John's eyes open wide in shock. Gabriel's skin is blackened

and blistered in parts. Whole shards of his shirt are missing.

John tries to sit up but Gabriel forces his head back down

with his palm. With the ease of a spider he slides down and

beside John.

Gabriel leans said nose in very close and whispers,

Gabriel extends a blistered, open palm over John's face.

FROM THE OTHER SIDE OF THE ROOM

We see Gabriel leaning over John as a sickly yellow glow

begins to rise and reflect off the walls. Beneath it comes

John's worst and deepest screams...

Gabriel SPLASHING the soot off his face and arms in a small,

institutional bathroom. He looks at himself in the mirror,

runs a hand through his hair, and walks out the door into

A HOSPITAL CORRIDOR

At the end of it is the intensive care unit, that

institutional purgatory where a small handful of patients,

wired and tubed and oxygenated, lay inconclusively between

life and death. There's a nurse's station there, all health

status video screens and a single nurse that looks up from

her work at Gabriel.

The nurse reaches for the telephone. Gabriel takes it away

from her with one hand and with the other grasps her face

open-palmed and whispers,

The nurse slides out of her chair and collapses to the floor.

Gabriel pulls out the metal clipboards holding each patient's

chart and flips through them, tossing one after another aside

as unsuitable.

Satisfied, he steps over to one of the beds, pulls back the

curtain and sits down beside an unconscious, middle-aged

woman. He watches patiently, listening the beeping scrawl of

the EKG above her.

It was weak to begin with but now it's faltering badly,

becoming the unsynched etchings of a child. A beeping alarm

has begun to ring and her breathing is slowing to nothing.

At the last possible moment Gabriel places his fingers across

her face, whispering to her, coaxing her.

The EKG's still flat but the woman is breathing. She begins

to choke, to cough, then suddenly sits up and opens her eyes.

She looks in disbelief around her, finally settling on

Gabriel's grin.

A look of utter desolation and sadness sweeps over her as

she begins to cry.

The sun cresting the Lukachukais and warming with honey

colored reflection the interior of the hogan.

Katherine's head is still on Thomas's shoulder, the two of

them asleep sitting against the wall.

Katherine opens her eyes and rises stiffly. She looks out

the simple window to the glow of morning without expression,

turns, and walks out.

IN THE OTHER HOGAN

Mary's Grandmother and some of the other elderly villagers

are attending Mary as Katherine enters. Mary is sitting up

in her bed. She smiles at Katherine.

Grey Horse is kneeling near the bed preparing a bowl drink.

Into it he crushes charcoal, dodge weed, juniper and ghost

plant. This he stirs, heats over flame, and feeds to Mary.

She grimaces and leans back in the bed as Grey Horse says a

brief prayer.

OUTSIDE

Katherine runs into Thomas outside the hogan.

She accepts a mug, blowing a cloud of steam off the top.

Thomas looks up. She's referring to Lucifer, who's appeared

perched on the edge of the low, eye-level hogan roof. The

sycophant is also nearby, chattering its teeth and staring

at Katherine with jealous, rabid eyes.

Lucifer shivers, a claw turning up the collar of his cloak.

The swimming, bottomless eyes fall on Thomas.

Thomas can't bring himself to say anything. To form the words.

Thomas gingerly hands him the cup. The angel Lucifer lifts

it, and with something unimaginably awful darting out of his

mouth, drinks. He offers the mug back to Thomas for a sip.

He finishes it. Cranes his neck.

And you know instantly, in the bottom of your stomach, that

those eyes mean it.

Thomas hesitates, holds the gaze, then turns and leaves. In

an instant Lucifer sweeps down from the hogan roof to

Katherine's side. Face and eyes and maggot breath

uncomfortably close, he smiles.

Lucifer places a cloaked arm around her shoulder and leads

her to the walled edge to look out across the endless plateau.

His mouth presses against her ear and whispers,

A tiny speck on the empty horizon. It grows, takes shape,

and finally becomes a red convertible rambler as it WOOSHES

past on a desolate throat of forgotten highway.

Gabriel's at the wheel. Beside him, grey-blonde hair streaming

out behind her, is Rachael, recently lifted from the file-

and-forget section of the hospital ICU. She tilts her head

up. Lets the sun warm her pallor. Just a sociopathic angel

and his somewhat deceased babe out for a top-down cruise

across a sixty million year old desert.

It could happen.

INT. ROADSIDE DINER - DAY

A reality bruised waitress, Madge, sets down a coffee and

milkshake before Gabriel. He downs the shake in one belt.

The waitress' eyes move from the guy with sunglasses and

burn marks on his shirt to the woman sitting alone outside

in the rambler.

Madge has a lot of things she misses in her life, but one of

them she decides isn't Gabriel.

Gabriel downs the coffee, stands, and tosses a bill on the

counter.

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

Thomas drags a heavy chain from Katherine's truck and begins

fastening it to a post. Lucifer watches perched on a nearby

rooftop.

Lucifer just smiles or sneers or whatever he does with that

hideous mouth.

INSIDE THE KIVA

Grey Horse begins laying out his prayer instruments as Mary

is prepared with paint and oils.

OUTSIDE

Katherine leans against the doorway, nervously watching the

horizon.

The sky thinning into uneasy pastels as the sun falls

unceremoniously toward the mountains. A few lanterns have

been lit, and from inside the kiva can be heard the chants

of the Navaho Enemy Ghost Way.

Katherine's eyes are still on a horizon dropping off into

shadow. She stiffens. There, at the end of the earth, appears

a silent plume of dust. It could be anybody's car, but it

can only be one car. Thomas steps up beside her.

Thomas sticks his head into the kiva, speaks softly to one

of the elderly villagers attending the ceremony.

A fire has been built on the kiva's floor. Through the choking

smoke can be seen Mary lying on a mat as Grey Horse chants

to the yei spirits and adds fine colored earth to the growing

sand painting beside her. His voice rises and falls in

guttural syntax. He's coaxing. Coaxing the alien spirit out

of the child.

He pulls his head out and hands Katherine the pistol.

There's a pause and for a moment their eyes lock. She touches

his arm, almost says something, then disappears into the

kiva. Thomas closes the door behind her. He turns and looks

out at the distant plume of dust. Growing closer.

EXT. GABRIEL'S RAMBLER - DAY

Radio turned up, sophomoric grin glued on his face, Gabriel

roars past and begins the snaking climb up the side of the

butte. The sun has almost completely slipped away now, leaving

the land a deathly bluish grey.

The road flattens out at the top of the butte and Gabriel

can see the village glowing at the far end. He punches the

rambler, winding it up for the last stretch, and pats the

blonde on the knee.

Maybe not.

There's a sudden glint of metal in the headlights as Thomas

at the last moment PULLS UP the heavy chain and HOOKS it

over the far post. Gabriel does something pointless with the

brakes and SLAMS forward into it. The whole rear of the car

STANDS UP on impact, PITCHING Gabriel through the windshield

into the dust.

Thomas steps out from behind the post armed with an iron

bar. The rambler hisses and belches a death rattle as he

cautiously walks toward the spot of gloom where Gabriel lies.

Thomas's feet crunch softly closer.

Thomas doesn't answer. Gabriel's body looks ravaged as he

carefully steps closer and closer.

Gabriel's legs suddenly SWING AROUND and SMACK Thomas,

sprawling him back into the dirt. The iron bar goes flying

as Gabriel in a flash is on top of him. Thomas thrashes but

Gabriel easily pins his shoulders and sits on his chest.

Without hurry he uncurls the fingers of his right hand.

Thomas's eyes are wild with fear.

Gabriel's spread fingers lower themselves toward his face.

Gabriel hesitates.

Gabriel's becoming unglued.

A shudder passes through Gabriel. He straightens up and looks

down at Thomas as emotion racks his body.

The two stare at one another. Then Gabriel, lost in himself,

suddenly turns away from Thomas and walks into the darkness.

For the village.

Thomas climbs quickly to his feet, spins around --

-- And is HIT full-force by a rabid, SHRIEKING Rachael. Her

legs lock around his body vise-like as her teeth and nails

DIG into his skin. He cries out and stumbles to the ground.

The two grapple furiously in the dust, Rachel's crazed face

taking BITE after BITE out of his shoulder and neck.

Thomas manages a fistfull of her hair and YANKS the fangs

off his shoulder. With his other arm he CUFFS her hard,

BREAKING the grip and ROLLING her aside. He staggers to his

knees and begins to run. Shrieking, a mad porcelain banshee

out of the dusk, Rachael catches up and TACKLES him. On the

way down his head strikes a small stone wall and the pain is

white thunder. Gagging and weeping in blank shock, he crawls

on his hands and knees as Rachael OPENS UP his arm from

shoulder to elbow with her nails. As the blood tumbles like

ribbons, Rachael JUMPS onto his back, DIGGING her claws into

his scalp.

It's about all one human can take.

Mad with pain and anger and desperation, Thomas manages to

climb to a shaky crouch, Rachael still shrieking on his back.

Throwing all his weight backward, he JAMS her into the short

stone wall. The impact SNAPS her hold and PROPELS her over

the wall --

And two thousand feet down the side of the butte.

Thomas Daggett can only curl up into a ball, gulping shallow,

shuddering breaths.

IN THE VILLAGE

Gabriel walks resolutely up to the first hogan and KICKS

down the plank wood door. No one home. He walks to the second

and KICKS its door down. Nothing.

IN THE KIVA

Mary's ceremony is nearing a crescendo. Grey Horse has donned

the colorful mask of the yei god Monster Slayer as the

relatives now join in the guttural chants of the Enemy Ghost

Way. Through the thick, choking smoke of the ceremonial fire

we see Katherine, nervously watching the door.

IN THE DARKNESS OUTSIDE THE VILLAGE

Thomas tries hopelessly to make his way back. Stumbling every

few steps, he's beyond pain and into driven numbness. It's

hopeless though. We know it.

IN THE VILLAGE

Gabriel KICKS down another door to another empty hogan.

There's only one left. As he approaches, from within can be

heard the muffled sound of chanting.

THOMAS

Takes a few more fumbling steps and falls again. He reaches

out to something metal for support. It's Katherine's pickup.

GABRIEL

Steps up to the kiva door and KICKS it. The frame buckles

but holds. He steps back a few feet, puts all his weight

into a turn, and KICKS again. The door SHATTERS.

INSIDE

Wood splinters ROCKET through the smoke as Gabriel appears

in the doorway. Grey Horse, everyone, freezes.

From out of the smoke steps Katherine. She FIRES, one round,

into Gabriel's side. The archangel is pitched against the

kiva's wall, where he stays a moment before turning to

Katherine.

She stands her ground between him and the child.

Once again, the shade of doubt holds him up. But it's quickly

pushed aside for a corrupted grin. He's given up all pretense.

He advances on her.

And he's on her. With his left arm he brutally forces her to

her knees as his right hand, palm out and fingers splayed,

clamp themselves over her face. Katherine's mouth opens in a

silent scream as the pain, immediate and beyond endurance,

flows through her body.

From somewhere outside, there's a sound.

Katherine gulps chokes of agony as her very clothes begin to

smolder around her.

We hear the sound once more, closer, before --

The entire kiva wall EXPLODES INWARD as Katherine's pickup

CRASHES through it. The mangled grill and hood SLAM into

Gabriel from the side and SMASH him to the ground like a

broken puppet. Katherine falls backward to the floor, gets

up, and runs to the truck's cab. Inside sits a near catatonic

Thomas. Katherine takes only a second to share a look with

him before reaching back and pulling out the pickup's tire

iron.

Gabriel, a shattered, broken thing, pulls himself up to his

knees. The sunglasses are gone and two eyeless pits stare

out at Mary, huddled in the corner. Bleeding from every pore,

one arm bent back the wrong way, he crawls across the floor

toward her, his voice the milky slur of a stroke victim.

Katherine brings the tire iron down on his skull with all

her might, DRIVING him to the floor. She turns to Grey Horse,

her eyes wild.

He, everyone, just stare. Stunned to stone.

Grey Horse timidly picks up his prayer stick and with a voice

faltering and cracked, in the insane glare of the wrecked

pickup's headlights, resumes the Enemy Ghost Way chant.

Katherine turns back to Gabriel.

She HITS him again with the tire iron. Then lifts it high

once more above her head. She's going to crush him, to implode

his skull.

When a hand stops her.

Sort of a hand. A claw. Lucifer's. He's standing behind her,

holding the raised bar still.

Katherine releases the bar and lets it clang to the floor.

Lucifer turns to the villagers, gazing fearfully at him as

they awkwardly try to finish the chant.

Lucifer's gaze falls on a deeply fucked-up Gabriel who groans

at the sight of him.

Lucifer kneels down beside him. Katherine instinctively starts

to reach for the tire iron but the sycophant hisses a liquid,

chattering warning at her.

Lucifer slams Gabriel's head against the floor and pins it.

As the angel thrashes furiously, Lucifer FORCES his arm into

Gabriel's chest. Gabriel cries out as Lucifer PULLS his arm

half out and FORCES it deeper. Again. And again. Soon

Gabriel's screams become giggles, then a crazed, hysterical

laughter.

The room goes insane. An impossible nightmare of chanting

Navahos, glaring headlights, and Gabriel's echoing laughter

as Lucifer pumps his chest. Laughter that rises to a kind of

orgasmic cry then instantly stops as Lucifer pulls out the

angel's heart,

And eats it.

At that instant Grey Horse places his hand on Mary's forehead,

speaks a last line, and the chant is completed.

Sticky, smoky, awful silence. Gabriel is a non-thing. A

battered, hollow shell.

Bartholomew Grey Horse, his voice cracked and finished, turns

to Katherine.

From outside the kiva suddenly comes the sound of a wounded,

savage GROWL. Katherine walks to the doorway. Just outside a

lone coyote is twisting in the dirt with furious agony.

Abruptly its thrashings cease. The animal stands and flashes

for an instant at Katherine cold yellow eyes more than animal.

Then it's gone into the blackness. Forever.

She turns and goes back to Thomas in the cab. Bleeding to

death is a real possibility for him. She pulls an old shirt

out of the back and tries to makeshift a wrap for his sliced

arm.

A few of the village elders appear at the cab.

Katherine walks over to where Mary, sweaty and shaken, sits

huddled in a corner attended by Grey Horse.

Mary's voice shakes as tears roll out her eyes.

Katherine gathers her up into her arms and holds her.

The chattering, hissing sycophant grabs Gabriel's body by

the hair and shoulders and drags it out the door. Lucifer

has remained behind, crouched on his haunches, his liquid,

yellow eyes on Katherine.

He rises to his feet and steps slowly toward her.

Just a grinning, twisted stare.

The smallest hint of a pause.

And he's gone. Through the door and into the night.

The fullness of day over Old Woman Butte, hot and bright.

Chasing the night and its fears away under the punishing

glare of noon.

The village is full of police vehicles now. Green broncos

from the Navaho Tribal Police. Blue and white sheriff

department sedans.

The Navaho cops are talking with Katherine and Mary. Thomas

is sitting on the trunk of a patrol car getting his wounds

properly bandaged as the Sheriff we met earlier leans beside

him chewing on a wild oat stalk.

He chews some more on his stalk. Looks off at the village.

The Sheriff looks over at Katherine's pickup still jammed

into the side of the kiva.

The Sheriff takes his hat off. Runs his finger along the

inside band.

Beat.

The Sheriff pushes off from the patrol car and tosses aside

the oak stalk.

The deputy finishes his bandaging.

He follows his boss. Katherine and Mary walk up.

The moment drifts into silence.

Her eyes settle on his.

She touches his cheek, Mary cradled between them.

Thomas sitting in the back of the tribal police bronco,

looking out the window to the shimmering sands; red and yellow

and black. To clouds brewing over faraway forgotten mountains.

To the end of the earth.

As the bronco drifts away from us toward the empty, rocky

horizon, as it slowly blends and is consumed by the land,

FADE SLOWLY TO BLACK

