BLACKNESS

On one side of the screen, computer programming language is being

printed, and we HEAR the sound of an electronic keyboard. In the

center of the screen, glowing lines inscribe a rough computer

simulation of a figure, in response to the programming. Gradually

the figure is completed and refined, as we HEAR a resonant voice

speaking.

We see that the completed form is man-like, heroic and muscular,

wearing a form of flexible armor. The face is calm, handsome and

intelligent. As the voice continues, the form becomes rounded by

the computer until it appears three dimensional and begins to rotate.

The figure is rotated completely around, and as it comes back to face

us, a glowing disk appears beside it; again in response to the

programming printed out at the side of the screen. The disk moves

towards the man-like figure and is rotated into position above it.

As the voice reaches the final word, the disk is slammed into place

on the back of the figure. There is an explosion of colored light,

a resounding crash of MUSIC and the title appears across the top of

the screen in huge letters.

The MUSIC CONTINUES as the glow fades and we SEE that the figure has

become real, a living being, although filled with glowing light, as

if it had an inner core of electricity.

The following is a SERIES OF QUICK CUTS in MONTAGE STYLE as the

OPENING TITLES ROLL. The montage takes place in two worlds, the

ELECTRONIC WORLD and the REAL WORLD.

The Electronic World is a mirror of our own, consisting of the

electronic information in our computers, television sets and

telecommunications network. It is peopled by computer programs,

data, and the characters from countless video games. For the first

time, we are seeing their world as it really is, rather than through

the window of television screens.

TWO OTHER ELECTRONIC FIGURES standing on a glowing grid against a

dark background. Each holds a bar between his fists, and as a BUZZER

SOUNDS, a glowing light cycle is inscribed around them, completely

encasing them.

as the cycles take off. We see that each leaves a solidifying laser

trail behind it. One turns abruptly, creating a wall in front of the

other.

Screen of a video game, the Real World version of light cycles,

as we see one of the lines smash into another and disappear.

We see teenagers, strangely lit from below with bluish light,

their hands on electronic controls, levers, knobs. We HEAR

electronic beeping and popping.

Futuristic tanks bearing down on one another in a flat grid-like

landscape. One FIRES, and the other disappears when it is hit, to

reappear, spinning wildly, in the distance. We HEAR a sound

like a crack of lightning.

A video game in an arcade. On the screen is a typical version of

Tank Wars with computer generated representations of tanks in a 2-D

maze.

Two other game warriors on the grid, this time throwing

glowing disks at one another like frisbees. We see the

one colored blue throw; his disk smashes into the second

warrior, and he dissolves into thousands of glowing lines.

A video game called "BERSERK," in which a human character'

throws a glowing dot at monsters in a maze; we see a quick

glimpse of the screen, then cut to a group of people staring

down, LAUGHING.

Another game in progress, from a LONG SHOT. A version of

Jai Alai, in which the two players stand suspended in space

on glowing colored rings, and throw a pellet of solid energy

at each other.

He is huge, evil looking. His body is enormous, his head

mechanical. This is SARK. He glows ominously blue. He is catching

the pellet thrown from his opponent who is much smaller, glowing

yellow.

fearful, nervous, poised on one ring.

sneering, as he uses his electronic cesta to hurl the pellet

back with violent force.

desperately trying to catch the pellet, but it smashes

into the ring, which explodes into a million pieces. One

last glimpse of the yellow warrior's tortured, desperate

face as he falls to instant death.

triumphant, LAUGHING. High above him, etched in enormous

glowing computer printed 3-D block letters, are the words:

We see two TEENAGERS playing a table model video game, where we

can see the words: "Winner - Blue" printed. The game console is

prominently marked with the letter logo of the manufacturer: "ICOM."

FOCUS ON SCREEN, ZOOM IN SLIGHTLY AND

Sark is striding through a wide corridor where other tough

looking blue warriors are lounging around, leaning against the

walls, sitting on the floor against the wall. They look up as

Sark comes in and one of them calls out:

Sark and the other blue warriors LAUGH RAUCOUSLY, and Sark moves on.

overlooking the video game grid. We see Sark walking onto the bridge,

removing his cesta and tossing it aside carelessly. A BUZZER is

sounding. Sark plugs himself into the feet sockets with a SIGH of

satisfaction.

The buzzer stops and we see the holographic image of a

cylinder forming around Sark, at first translucent and then

solidifying so that we can't see through it, and Sark is

hidden from view.

of this happening. We can see the inside surface of the cylinder

... a wavering image of a stretched out face, just features,

appears superimposed on the cylinder. The face speaks.

The feet sockets glow and we see Sark absorbing the energy like

a drug addict, eyes glazed.

The sockets glow 'more intensely as the hologram disappears, and we

CUT FROM a CLOSE SHOT of Sark's satiated face to:

long, darkened, sinister. A dejected and disheveled character

(CROM) is being escorted by a guard..

They stop in front of a cell, the guard opens the door and shoves the

protesting captive inside. The door SLAMS shut, locked.

as the captive falls against one wall from the force of the guard's

shove. The cell is small, one-man, and in each wall next to the door,

an opening gives a view of the next cell. Through one of the windows,

we can see the back of another captive program, and through the

other, a face looking over at the newcomer. The character speaks:

The new captive looks up, nervous.

He points to several hash marks on his cell wall.

He looks up as Ram makes a NOISE under his breath. Ram has a strange,

still expression on his face.

He stops. Ram is looking over his shoulder.

There's a slight noise from cell beyond Ram's.

It turns slowly, silhouetted by the light from the outer corridor.

reacting.  He GASPS and stares.

with Ram to one side, smiling slightly, and Crom staring.

OFF IN THE SYSTEM

Here in a maze of complex pathways, we see a lone tank moving along

one of the paths.

A lone program sits at the controls. His armor is worn and beaten

and his glow subdued. This is CLU. With his thermos of glowing

coffee and his suicide-jockey manner, he reminds us of a truck

driver on an all-night run.

A spot of glowing light zips around the tank, stops and expands

into a solid glowing green sphere with the suggestion of a face as

it speaks.

As soon as it is finished speaking, it goes back to being pure light.

The tank makes a quick run through a maze-like path with rounded

corners -- a computer memory microcircuit.

at the instrument panel.

A shot OVER THE SHOULDER of a figure typing on a computer terminal

keyboard, talking to himself in a low voice. He stop typing, waits

for some information to read out. Beyond him we see a couple of

large video parlor game consoles.

He's a young, blonde guy in his mid-twenties. Very attractive,

charming, innocent looking, but with a devilish gleam in his eye.

WE ZOOM IN on that gleam in his eye and see the brilliant colors of

the CRT screen reflected there.

The tank heads along a path of circuitry toward a tall, glowing

"tower" -- an input/output component.

A red light flashes on the control panel. Clu comes alert and sits

up. He stares at the warning. Spot of light that is Bit zips up next

to his head.

We see Flynn sit up abruptly, and his fingers start flying over the

keys.

We see the turret of the tank swivel around. PULL BACK. In the

distance is an immense block-like robotic bluish black form,

U-shaped, with a small head and a glowing yellow bar for eyes--

a recognizer. It hovers above the ground.

A second Reco is coming up behind the first.

FIRES A VOLLEY at the first Reco. That one falls heavily to the

ground and the tank speeds up, swiveling around to try to fire at

the second Reco, but it moves too fast and can't avoid a gulley.

The tank goes in and is stuck - no traction.

Clu standing on it. The Bit zips by him, and they both head away

from the tank, fast.

A glowing static field appears between the two legs of the

Recognizer, and it sweeps over the tank, de-rezzing it. We can

see more tanks approaching over an edge of the landscape.

running, looking up as the Reco closes in. We see the dead Reco

up ahead, and the streak of the Bit making for it.

reacting in fear, looking up as the screen GOES TO BLACK.

REAL WORLD

SHOT OF THE SCREEN. A complex set of programming figures ends

abruptly in a single blue line which prints out across the screen

over and over, gradually filling it completely.

Flynn.

He tries clearing the monitor, but the repeating line just comes

right back, monotonously moving across the screen.

Clu is in electronic energy ring chains, his feet in sockets like

Sark's, but this time the energy from the sockets is deadly,

torturous. Hovering in front of him is the hologram of the MCP.

Beside Clu stands one of the memory guards.

The MPC responds in the manner of a B-movie police sergeant grilling

a suspect.

The pain overwhelms him as the energy from the feet sockets

momentarily becomes unbearable.

The guard gives Clu a shove to keep him from losing consciousness.

The feet sockets really let loose, and Clu SCREAMS in agony, but

doesn't speak. Suddenly his body appears to dissolve into the broken

pattern of a fading television picture and disintegrates into

electric static.

HELICOPTER

We seem at first to be in the Electronic World still, flying over a

vast circuit board lit by countless dots of light. While this is our

impression, and closely after the last dialogue in the preceding

scene, we HEAR the SOUND O.S. of a PHONE RINGING, as heard by the

party placing the call. Then the click of the receiver being picked

up, and a male VOICE (DILLINGER'S) answering:

As we fly over the grid, descending, the image comes into clearer

focus, and we realize that this is not a circuit board, but rather

an actual landscape, a suburban grid at twilight. We are

approaching a skyscraper which is yet too far off to distinguish

accurately. As we descend, a thumping, rhythmic noise gradually

increases in volume until it is very loud, and we realize it is the

sound of a HELICOPTER, and we are in the cockpit looking down at the

landscape. We just become aware of this fact when the sound of a

CONVERSATION begins, obviously between the pilot of the 'copter and

a passenger.

THE CAMERA PULLS AROUND for a VIEW OF THE HELICOPTER from behind and

off to the side. It is a beautiful, gleaming jet black machine.

In spotless reflective silver paint the letters ICOM are written

across one entire side. It is obviously state-of-the-art technology.

We see Dillinger's face looking out of the window as the helicopter

approaches the ICOM building, an enormous tower.

on top of the building. Several technicians are at hand, and as the

helicopter touches down, they rush out to secure it.

A huge wall-sized plate glass window shows a view of the grid-like

suburban landscape. Dillinger stands behind a table. We see that the

entire surface of the table is a gigantic computer terminal. His

fingers punch out a code on the touch-sensitive keyboard and we see

printed out on the screen:

REQUEST: access to Master Control Program, User code 00 - Dillinger.

Password: MASTER.

The computer's screen clears, and the Master Control Program

addresses Dillinger, simultaneously speaking in a human-sound voice

through a pair of studio-quality stereo SPEAKERS and printing out

its words on the computer screen, The MCP's VOICE is the same as

that of the "bad cop" who grilled Clu, but its tone is now that of a

compassionate psychiatrist working with a favored patient.

Dillinger settles into a chair.

Dillinger watches as the computer screen wipes blank.

CLOSE SHOT of a very messy desk, with a coffee cup and half an egg

salad sandwich lying on top of the computer console, with fingers

visible typing on the keyboard.

of ALAN BAILEY blearily looking at the screen; he's a serious-

looking man in his early thirties, wearing wire-rimmed glasses, and

he looks like he hasn't slept for a week. On top of the terminal is

a small Tonka toy Shogun warrior, and to one side is an ancient

popcorn maker and a bottle of Crisco Oil. Pinned to one wall is

a small sign reading, "Gort, Klaatu barada nikto!" Alan types into

the touch keyboard:

He starts to type again, but the screen clears and:

He pushes his chair back, leaves his office.

Dillinger opens the door, welcoming Alan.

He waves Alan to a chair; they sit.

Alan rises, goes to the door. As soon as he leaves:

The Master Control Program comes back to life, on the screen and

through the speakers.

We see Alan push open the door under a sign reading "Laser Research."

Alan walks down a short corridor to a heavy glass WINDOW through

which the laser laboratory is visible. A sign over the window,

marked "Experiment in Progress," is illuminated by a red warning

bulb.

of two white-suited figures visible through a network of two white-

suited figures visible through a network of white scaffolding that

encloses the giant laser structure. They are standing on a cherry-

picker crane at the second story level of the laser, with a box of

tools at their feet. We TRUCK DOWN THE SIDE of the laser, along the

tubes which house the amplifying lenses, and MOVE UP, gradually

getting close enough to hear what they are saying, and get a look

at them.

We see that the figures are a young, dark-haired, beautiful woman,

with her hair tied back under a hard hat, and an older man, who is

using a tool on a section of the laser, and is also wearing a hard

hat. The woman is LORA and the man is DR. WALTER GIBBS. He's

wearing a copper bracelet above his digital watch/calculator, and

has an intense, almost insane look to his dark eyes, with their

bristling white eyebrows.

In contrast, Lora seems more serious and conservative, but she

defers to Gibbs as a senior, and more accomplished, scientist.

Both have protective eye goggles -- worn loosely around their necks

at the moment.

As the CRANE LOWERS THEM to the floor:

They step off the crane and walk to a short, lead-shielded

cylindrical PLATFORM, on which rests a solid SPHERE of clear plastic

polymer, about 3 inches in diameter. The "firing" end of the giant

laser is aimed straight at the sphere. Five feet away is an identical

plat-form -- empty.

She crosses to a COMPUTER CONSOLE nearby. The console is

connected to the laser by a few dozen wires and cables.

Pulling her goggles into place over her eyes, she sits at the

console. Gibbs, adjusting his goggles, takes a position near

the platform bearing the sphere -- safe from the laser, but

close enough to watch.

She types a series of commands on the computer keyboard.

The laser shoots a bolt of blindingly bright LIGHT at the polymer

sphere. For a moment, the sphere has the look of a wavering, poorly

received television picture -- wobbling lines of dots -- and then

it disappears entirely. As Gibbs watches, a Lora works feverishly,

the laser pivots to point at the platform a few feet away. A second

discharge of LIGHT hits the surface of this platform, and -- like a

film-in-reverse of the ball's disappearance -- it is reconstructed,

five feet from its original position. When the beam shuts off, Lora

rushes to join Gibbs in examining the born-again ball of plastic.

At the SOUND O.S. of an appreciative pair of hands clapping, Lora

and a Gibbs turn to SEE Alan, in hard hat, goggles, and paper

shoe-covers, walking toward them.

He gives Lora an embrace and a quick kiss.

The three start walking out of the laser lab, Alan and Lora with

their arms around each other's shoulders.

Gibbs looks alarmed, but doesn't say anything.

AD LIB goodnights.

outside laser lab where all technicians, etc. have to put on the

protective suits, or at least dirt-free shoes. Lora is pulling off

her white suit, and Alan pulls white paper protectors off his shoes.

She closes her locker. He follows her into the corridor.

Alan and Lora, walking to the elevator.

They get into the elevator.

The elevator doors close.

As van pulls up in front of it, a long ESTABLISHING SHOT with the

name "Flynn's" high and blazing above the entrance.

CAMERA PANS AROUND. It's bright and jazzy, Las Vegas style,

decorated with huge murals of computer chips and electronic

circuitry. We see dozens of individual machines, where scores of

GUYS and GIRLS, teenagers mostly, but older and younger kids too,

are playing the games, watching, milling around, CHATTERING.

As the kids play, colored glows from the video games light up their

faces eerily.

of kid playing one of the games "Tailgunner."

of two GIRLS playing "Berzerk," with 2-D computer images of human

figures running through the maze.

of "Battle Zone" screen.

of "'Lunar Lander".

of "Star Castle".

of "Space Invaders".

who crowd around each machine, oblivious to anyone passing them.

walking through the aisle of games, from behind. They are slightly

bewildered and confused by the weird noises. Lora approaches a

junior high school girl who's watching a hot game of "Battle Zone."

The kid looks at Lora, then turns towards the center of the room

and points. Alan and Lora look.

playing a game called Space Paranoids, CAMERA TILTING UP into his

face, catching the orange glow from the console.

The game has a prominent ICOM logo under the screen. Flynn is a

cocky kid in his mid-20s, unshaven, wearing a T-shirt, jeans,

jogging shoes. He's racked up a terrific score.

Kids are grouped around him, tensely watching the game -- fans.

As we watch, the machine's nine-digit scoreboard goes to

999,999,999 -- then flashes the word "RECORD" as lights blink and

a SIREN sounds. The kids cheer wildly.

He grins tiredly and turns away from the game to find Lora

approaching him, with Alan in tow.

He leads them toward the back of the arcade.

A dark, panelled room, with a few comfortable chairs, a business

desk with a typewriter and terminal (where we saw Flynn working in

scenes 29, 33, etc.), and a couple of video games -- Flynn's

favorites. As Flynn, Lora, and Alan enter, they find the arcade

noise considerably muffled. Flynn settles into a chair; Alan leans

against a game, nervous; Lora paces.

Alan looks profoundly uncomfortable.

Flynn laughs.

She shakes her head.

They all look at each other. After a beat, Lora holds the keys

to her van aloft.

As he speaks, he types a quick command into the console key board,

and a series of IMAGES appear on the computer's screens: vast

computer banks...rows of-magnetic disks...ICOM's globe logo spinning

in space, covered with a glowing circuit pattern, then a shot of

millions of cancelled checks being counted electronically; then 3-D

computer representations of vessels (aircraft carrier and Solar

Sailer). On another screen, we see statements of ICOM's wealth

adding up, accounts receivable and assets.

Gibbs turns wearily away from the display.

Gibbs turns to face Dillinger again.

He exits.

Lora's van pulls up on a side street, around the corner from ICOM's

main gate. The ICOM building looms high above them, an ominous box.

A digital CLOCK on the dashboard reads 12:12. Lora is at the wheel,

Alan next to her.

She jerks her thumb over her shoulder.

But he climbs over the seat, and Lora starts to drive slowly forward.

Flynn pulls a bag of doughnuts from his pocket.

Flynn smiles, hands Alan a doughnut.

Lora's van pulls to a stop beyond the door at the rear of the ICOM

building, and the three get out. Lora inserts her I.D. card into a

magnetic reader beside the door. Nothing happens.

He gestures Alan and Lora out of the way, takes out a small black

box, with several buttons, a -digital counter- with LED numerals

and a small calculator keyboard. He leans over the security lock,

his BACK TO THE CAMERA and PLAYS a couple of notes. There's a

distinct CLICK, an the door starts to swing open ... and open ...

and open. We see that this door is about twenty feet thick. Flynn

starts LAUGHING.

The three of them walk along a semi-darkened corridor, trying to

nonchalantly avoid the security monitor camera mounted on the wall.

But as they go past it, it swivels and aims right at them.

A SHOT of the three backs retreating down the corridor.

from the rotating security camera outside the elevator on the floor

of the laser lab. We see Flynn's face peek out and see the camera.

His head pulls back in.

As the security camera aims away from the-elevator, Flynn and Lora

make a mad dash down the hall and we see Alan's face watching.

from the camera at the entrance to the laser lab. We see Flynn

approaching the camera, stuffing the last donut from his bag into

his mouth. He takes the empty bag, raises it up, mugging to the

camera, and pushes the bag over the lens. The SCREEN GOES BLACK,

Alan comes into his office and sits at his terminal.

Lora watches as Flynn sits down at her terminal.

Flynn LAUGHS as Lora goes out.

settling in, loosening his fingers, like a concert pianist, or a

safecracker. He types in a code number, presses the "enter" key.

We see a camera emerging from a sliding panel.

from this camera. We watch as Flynn starts typing.

It clears abruptly, and the following appears as we hear the VOICE

of the MCP.

The voice lurches, goes into high speed, and then back to normal.

activating, lighting up.

We see that one entire wall of the lab is a door and it is rising

silently, so that Flynn doesn't notice.

We can see as the door rises more of the laser equipment, and it

is this section that is being activated.

grinning, typing.

Suddenly, before Flynn can go on, the gigantic laser mechanism

behind him sends a brilliant beam of LIGHT directly at him. He

freezes. We see his body beginning to break into scan lines, like

a video image -- the same thing that happened to Gibbs' polymer

ball. We can see the terminal also glowing in the intense light,

being scanned by the laser. The colors change, become monochromatic -

with Flynn's body glowing orange - and the image of his figure

blurs and becomes indistinct. ZOOM IN on Flynn and

we saw at the opening of the film'.

The pattern changes, dissolving into another image and we are

rushing forward at great speed. We see the circuits rushing by and

getting larger and then the picture dissolves into darkness with a

glowing, spinning globe beneath us, like the globe from AIC's logo,

covered with circuits. We are rushing at it, circling it, diving

closer and closer, so that the detail on the globe becomes clearer

with every second and we realize that the circuits are structures,

angular towers and buildings, huge mechanical looking mountains and

deserts covered with a glowing grid pattern. Everything glows with

an internal energy.

We continue diving, down, down, faster and faster and we see the

structures of one city-like area across electronic mesas and cliffs,

and then we're right over this area and diving straight down,

everything blurring with the speed.

made up of rings of energy, and we are diving straight down it.

We see a human figure falling feet first down this tunnel from the

outside, and suddenly we're at the bottom, and the figure stops,

staggering from the force of the fall, but upright.

We see Flynn, or what looks like Flynn -- same face, etc, but now

covered with a strange costume, made of electronic circuitry,

glowing with energy. Flynn shakes his head dazedly.

He looks up and SEES something.

A horrendous, towering character, carrying a long, glowing staff,

is right in front of him. This character reaches out an arm and

grabs Flynn.

being dragged off the entry tube platform.

hovering over the Game Grid. We see Sark in his feet sockets, his

hands spread out flat on the table in front of him. A BUZZING NOISE

fills the chamber and a holographic image begins to form, shimmering

into awful shape. We see the stretched out face dissolving into the

cylinder of the MCP.

Sark suddenly snaps to awareness, directing all his attention to the MCP.

Sark looks up, shocked.

The circuits going into the energy sockets fade; we see Sark weaken.

The hologram disappears and Sark's power returns.

Two guards leading Flynn down it, ECHOING FOOTSTEPS.

They turn a corner and continue, finally stopping in front of a

cell. The door opens automatically. Flynn holds back.

The guard shoves Flynn inside and SLAMS the door, cutting off his

voice.

The same type of cell Crom was thrown into in the title sequence.

Flynn is leaning against the door, staring at his hands.

Flynn's hands are glowing, electrified.

of his face. His head comes up and we see an expression of terrible

understanding on his face. Voices are coming through the opening

of the neighboring cell.

Ram is standing at the window that divides his cell from Tron's.

He can hear the VOICES, but can't see anything except Ram's back,

so he goes to the window and tries to reach through.

But as his hand reaches the dividing point between the two cells,

it hits an invisible barrier, and we see a brilliant energy field

come instantaneously into existence, stopping his hand, and then

disappearing. Flynn pulls back in shock.

turning towards Flynn as he hears this noise.

He goes to the window opening.

Ram gives Flynn an astonished look, but before he can say anything,

there's a tremendous POUNDING NOISE, and the door of Flynn's cell

opens.

we see guards pulling out other CAPTIVES from their cells, and as

Flynn is led off down the corridor, Tron and Ram are taken in the

opposite direction.

A large area which opens onto the Game Grids from above, with

balconies overlooking the action. Overhead, the aircraft carrier

hovers menacingly, casting a shadow on the programs below. The new

captives are led out onto the ledges, herded by the guards. They

pass some of the Blue Video Warriors, who LAUGH and make fun of

them. Flynn is in the front of the line.

Sark speaks from the bridge of the carrier, and his voice is

amplified over the grid.

reacting.

Sark, looking out over the grid.

Looking down into the game arenas at his feet and over at one of

the conscripts next to him.

of the two blue warriors behind the group of new conscripts.

on the bridge of the carrier and -

leaning forward.

MONTAGE - FLYNN'S TRAINING

for a rest period. He is pacing back and forth, and we can see Ram

seated in the next cell. Flynn goes to the bars.

The POUNDING on Flynn's cell begins again.

We see Flynn being led down the hall on the big screen behind Sark's

console. Sark is staring up at the screen, frowning, nervous,

frightened of this new User-warrior.

We see they are entering an open part of the Game Grid, with two

bridges of energy extending across open space to two separate

circular platforms, made up of concentric glowing rings. Crom

marches across-one of these, and Flynn follows suit on the other.

When they each reach the circular platforms, the bridges disappear.

We see Flynn turn and stare back across the empty space, then turn

and face his opponent. Above them a third floating disk hovers. He

looks over at Crom, who's anxious.

A buzzer sounds. The game begins. Crom hurls a glowing pellet

upwards. It strikes the upper platform, ricochets off, and heads

straight for Flynn.

Flynn lunges, but misses. The pellet strikes one of the rings of

his platform, and that ring dissolves. Flynn's lunge takes him

right to the edge of the open space created, and he just catches

himself in time to keep from falling over the edge.

down, down between the rings into an infinite pit.

staring down. There's a SOUND and he looks up.

Another pellet hits the mirror platform and hurtles down at him.

reacting, judging where this one will fall, racing to the farther

edge of his platform, leaping over the empty ring on the way, and

catching the pellet before it can' hit. He throws it back.

Flynn's pellet hits the mirror, flashes down on him. Crom strains,

but misses. One of his rings disappears.

High above the game we see Sark watching.

racing for another catch. He makes it and hurls the pellet again.

We see that Crom's platform is disappearing fast.

Flynn throws again. The pellet hits the mirror platform and heads

straight at Crom, who misses it. The pellet destroys the ring he

was standing on, and Crom has to grab frantically at the edge of

the next ring to keep from falling.

He is sent another pellet from above and catches it, holding it

ready, waiting for his opponent to get back up on the ring.

His face lit from below by the glow of the Game Grid... angry

He puts down his cesta. Suddenly a voice rings out from above.

Flynn looks up. There, appearing in the mirror disk above, is Sark's

face, furious, huge.

staring at this apparition. He grits his teeth.

In a Greyhound station waiting area, two kids are playing a video

game, which appears to have broken down.

Flynn holds up the pellet... and drops it down into the abyss below.

He stares back up at Sark's immense image.

in the mirror platform, towering above Flynn.

pressing a button.

The ring he is holding on to dissolves, and with a SCREAM, he

falls... and falls ... and falls...

with Flynn visible, staring down, and the huge face of Sark above

him.

on the bridge. His finger wavers over another button, almost

presses it... We see him-straining, trying to overcome his

conditioning. Then he snatches his hand away.

staring up. The image on the mirror wavers and dissolves.

He SLAMS his palm down on a panel on the console, and a BUZZER

SOUNDS.

as the bridge to his platform reappears, and we see guards starting

to run across to him.

The sound of GUARDS' running feet approaching their cells. They look

up.

Flynn is being escorted down it. A couple of big Blue Warriors go by

and deliberately brush into Flynn.

Flynn stares at him; then, in one smooth motion, reaches to his back

and pulls out his disk.

He moves as if to throw the disk.

The other warrior grabs this one by the arm and pulls him away as

Flynn and his guards continue on.

Ram and Tron are escorted in as Flynn is brought in from another

corridor. Three blue warriors are lined up, waiting.

He leans over to get a better look at Tron and GASPS in surprise.

Before they can go on, the BUZZER sounds.

floating over the Game Grid, with a view of the light cycle arena.

ZOOM IN on the section of the grid where the game is about to start.

The three Blue Warriors are lined up facing our friends, on opposite

sides of the large arena, about a half mile square, surrounded by

high bulwarks, and surveyed by Recognizers. We can see the carrier

hovering high overhead.

holding the handlebars of the cycles in front of them. We see Tron

and Ram looking at Flynn, in the center.

With a sizzling electrical discharge, the light cycle is inscribed

around him.

ready to go.

also ready.

His finger presses a button and the BUZZER SOUNDS again.

We see the six solid walls being formed behind the cycles. As we

watch the outer four cycles veer off to either side, leaving Tron

and his opponent speeding suicidally at each other:

of the other cycle heading straight at him.

We see these two cycles come together and almost crash ... but both

turn at the last second to the same side and continue rushing

forward. The other cycles can be seen racing around the edge of the

arena.

They start making turns, passing walls they have already created,

each trying to box the other in.

rushing forward.

turning.

They rush past a wall, headed directly for a bulwark at the end of

the arena. Tron is on one side, but the Blue Warrior is on the

inside. Tron forces the warrior to smash straight into the wall.

There is an explosion as the cycle de-rezzes, and a crack forms in

the bulwark. We see that the walls created by the de-rezzed warrior

dissolve as he does.

rushing alongside his opponent. They make a turn.

They make another turn

right at the camera.

of the maze of walls. He gets clear for a moment and spots the crack

in the bulwark.

reacting, getting an idea.

racing together, approaching the bulwark. At the last second, the

Blue Warrior turns, but Flynn races right at the crack.

observing this. With satisfaction. Now he will be rid of the User.

He races straight at the crack... and through it.

His face suffused with anger. He SLAMS a fist down on the console

in front of him.

The remaining four cycles are still racing around the arena.

reacting to Flynn's escape, hope in his eyes.

SMASHING another one of the Blue Warriors against a wall. He turns

and races up next to Tron.

side by side. They look at each other.

We see their cycles veer off and head straight for the crack. We

HEAR a LOUD SIREN and a mechanical voice starts up:

We continue to hear this voice repeating under the escape, gradually

diminishing as the three friends get farther away, until it dies

out altogether.

moving towards the dividing bulwark, passing over it.

racing through the narrow crack in the bulwark, barely enough room

to get by. They emerge into an open corridor, with the Recognizers

appearing overhead. We watch the cycles rush past the CAMERA...

He is pacing across the bridge of the carrier, smashing guards out

of his way.

as he looks up and spots the Recognizers hovering over them, about

to come down for the kill.

heading for a smaller opening in one wall, labeled "Game Storage."

as the three cycles race into the opening. The Reco's are blocked,

way too big to fit through the opening.

FROM FLYNN'S POV as they rush through long narrow rooms filled with

rows of tanks and missiles. As they speed past, the rows of tanks

REV UP, turn in formation, one after the other, like the Rockettes,

and follow.

Outside the game area, an electronic desert reminiscent of the Grand

Canyon, with giant pillars rising high into the air, lined with

narrow ridges and ledges. The cycles rush around corners of the

ledges, pursued by the tanks, high above the flat surface. They come

around a corner onto a wider ledge with several dark openings in the

face of the cliff. They stop for a moment.

listening.

as the three cycles rev up and race off, headed for one of the

narrow openings in the cliff face, and plunge into it, disappearing

from view.

We see the three cycles descend a long sloping ramp into the

darkness, down, down into the dry rot section. The cycles come to a

stop and de-rez. Leaving each man standing with just the handlebars

between his fists. They all let out a long SIGH and relax.

Ram and Tron look at Flynn as if he's crazy, then start smiling and

grinning, until all three are LAUGHING.

as the force of tanks RUMBLES through the terrain, the aircraft

carrier hovering overhead.

Sark is staring feverishly out over the barren landscape.

Sark's lieutenant is watching the wall-sized screen behind Sark,

where we can see a diagram of the area, with the tanks visible,

moving through it. He turns to Sark.

Ram, Tron and Flynn are climbing up to an opening in the wall of the

cave. Beyond them we can see a cluster of structures, like a

cityscape, and one enormous TOWER with a golden beam of light rising

from it, farther up than the eye can see. No tanks are visible.

He notices that Tron is not listening to them any longer, but is

gazing upwards.

Flynn and Ram turn.

Ram and Tron look out at the distant tall tower.

They all look back, into the darkness behind them. A glowing stream

can just be seen. Ram gets up.

Ram and Tron are drinking, kneeling at the stream of flowing,

brilliant LIGHT.

Flynn goes to the stream, dips his hands in, takes a drink.

Tron and Ram are taken aback.

Suddenly, we hear a RUMBLING SOUND. Flynn looks up sharply.

With that, there's an EXPLOSION from outside the cave. Each of the

men holds up his cycle handlebars, and the three cycles SIZZLE back

into shape and race up the ramp, and on out.

The three cyclists pause at the cave opening, sizing up possible

avenues of escape in the terrain below.

The cycles race out of the cave entrance and head down, away from

the approaching tanks, through the electronic canyons, shells

EXPLODING around them. We see the tanks close behind.

from inside of the tanks, of the three bikes heading into a narrow

arroyo.

They just make it around the corner when an EXPLOSION boasts the

entrance to the arroyo, entering what appears to be a maze of very

narrow canyons with short walls. They turn another corner and come

to the edge of a gaping ravine.

Several hundred feet to their left a narrow bridge connects their

ledge with another canyon wall, and a wider ledge, which leads down

to the floor of the entire area, and on to freedom.

The tanks are following through the maze, smooth gray automatons,

lifeless, inexorable nemesis. Tron's cycle is in the lead as all

three race for the bridge, but behind them, we see the first tank

turning the corner.

as the turret swings around and focuses on the bridge.

Tron races out on it, Ram and Flynn behind. Just as Tron reaches

the other side and Ram has just started to cross, there's a

tremendous EXPLOSION of electronic FLAK, blasting Ram and tossing

him back on top of Flynn. Both cycles de-rez. The bridge disappears,

and a mass of rubble falls, partially Obscuring Ram and Flynn. Tron

SCREECHES to a halt and swings his bike back around.

He looks around -- Ram and Flynn are nowhere in sight. in the ravine

below, he SEES a pile of motionless rubble.

The tank fires again, narrowly missing Tron, and he REVS up again,

speeds off down the ramp, and is gone.

Ram is badly injured, unconscious. Flynn struggles to his feet,

sees the tank turret swiveling towards him, grabs Ram and picks him

up.

struggling with Ram's limp body, wedging himself into a narrow crack.

in the carrier above. He is watching the action on the wall screen

behind his console, back to the camera. The picture is coming from

the lead tank. To him, it appears as though Ram and Flynn had been

blown up, since no sign of them is visible. We can see his

lieutenant nearby, operating the communications.

speeding through the flat, desert-like terrain, heading straight for

the cityscape tower in the distance.

Far behind him, we see the image of Sark's carrier ponderously

moving in his direction.

Flynn is supporting Ram, half carrying him, and it is

getting darker.

Ram weakly nods, but doesn't look very convincing. Flynn bites his

lip and struggles on. They are down on the floor of the desert,

leaving the towering canyons behind. A large, dim shape can be made

out. Flynn peers at it hopefully and struggles towards it.

arriving in front of a block-like shape, with a narrow opening.

Exhausted, Flynn lets Ram down to the ground, goes to the opening

and looks in. Looks okay, so he comes back.

sitting down inside the hiding place, collapsing. Ram is unconscious

anyway, and Flynn's eyes soon closed.

Some light comes in the opening, and we see Flynn lying on a

platform across from Ram. Ram's glow appears to be almost gone.

Flynn's eyes open. For a second he doesn't know where he is, but

then he spots Ram, and comes fully awake. Ram is watching him. Flynn

looks around. He gets up and stretches, his hand reaching up towards

the ceiling. It brushes against one panel and suddenly the energy

glow from his body seems to leap from his hand to the panel, leaving

it with a glow of its own. The entire chamber starts to shake and

RUMBLE.

Flynn tentatively places his-hands on separate parts of the

instruments. An energy flow starts, and with a mighty heave and

shudder, the chamber they're in turns over, knocking both Flynn and

Ram to one side. The Recognizer is now in its standard upright

position.

as it stands up, covered with a static overlay, partially de-rezzed.

Through the head of the Reco, we can look out at the landscape below.

Flynn sits stunned for a moment, then stumbles over to Ram, who's

going fast.

Ram nods weakly.

Flynn touches panels, trying to get the Recognizer going, but with

no result.

Flynn goes over to him and kneels. Ram grabs his hands. Suddenly

Ram's fading glow begins to flow through their clasped hands into

Flynn. Horrified, Flynn tries to pull away, but Ram holds him fast.

Ram's last bit of energy flows into Flynn and Ram's body de-rezzes.

Flynn watches in horror, frantically trying to reverse the flow,

but it's too late. Ram disappears before his eyes. Stunned, he

gazes at the empty space for a moment, then stands up.

Tron arrives at the city, gazing around an empty, surreal, burnt-out

landscape. Buildings seem two dimensional, barely there, at a low

rate of power, so drained by the MCP. The cycle de-rezzes. There's a

NOISE from above, and Tron looks up.

A Recognizer floats over the city, moving towards him.

He hides behind a building as the Reco passes. A strange, zombie-like

figure comes down one of the streets, and the Recognizer swoops over

it, the static field flashing between the legs, passing through the

figure, dissolving it.

Very grim. He looks out onto the street and sees two more of the

figures, standing together, staring at each other, barely moving.

Dead, lifeless, but animate. Tron comes out on the street, staring

at these figures. He locks around the city in confusion, shaking his

head sadly, but walks on.

Up ahead we see a large, multi-storied factory-like building.

This is what he was looking for. He looks from side to side,

figuring the best way to get to the building. In front of the

building stand a small group of the memory guards.

of the city, and the tower and beam rising high into the air, with

Sark's carrier far away, nearing the city.

over the complex landscape, of the distant city and tower, with

Sark's carrier far away, nearing the city.

This was his POV out of the window of the Recognizer. His face is

sad, he is still mourning Ram. This is a very low point. He sighs,

then looks around, putting his palm on one panel after another.

One of them glows brilliantly as he touches it, and the Recognizer

gives a violent shake, then stops.

There's a NOISE from above. He looks up.

We see a bright glow behind one of the pieces of equipment.

His eyes widen, then narrow. He non chalantly turns away, pretending

to be still examining things.

Appearing again, peeking around the corner. It comes forward, trying

to get a look at Flynn. The BIT.

Flynn whirls around, fingers poised like a gunfighter. The Bit gives

a violent start and leaps back, out of the way, but immediately

comes back, peering at Flynn. Flynn is moving closer.

The Bit is still in its pure energy form, but then it suddenly

recognizes Flynn (thinks he is Clu), expands in a smooth green

sphere -- the "Yes" mode and shouts:

The Bit subsides into energy form again.

From now on, whenever the Bit speaks, it is a ball-shaped character,

red or green, with a hint of a face, but as soon as it stops

speaking, it reverts to a brilliant spark of light.

Flynn eyes the bit cautiously.

In answer, the Bit moves toward the center of the cabin where a

platform supports a four-foot tube with a crossbar. Flynn follows,

stares at the setup for a moment, then steps onto the platform and

grabs the cross-bar.

Before the Bit can answer, Flynn's power flows into the Recognizer,

and it takes off like a bat out of hell

heading for the city. It lurches forward unevenly, crashing drunkenly

into a wall and bouncing off another one.

This is the building Tron was eyeing when we left him. We see him

inside now, in a corridor, passing a large opening which gives views

of partially completed structures: an aircraft carrier, a strange

elongated craft that resembles a sailboat on its side. All composed

partially of glowing lines, and partially of flat smooth surfaces.

We see several female programs working in these rooms. This building

only has female workers, but they are all pale and listless, no

interest in anything, staring at their feet as they shuffle along.

Tron looks farther down the corridor.

We see a file of the female workers coming down the corridor towards

Tron.

as he moves back against the wall, into a niche.

As the first girl passes his vantage-point, his hand flashes out and

grabs her around the mouth, yanking her back into the niche with him.

The line of workers mechanically files on past.

We watch from the rear of the niche, as Tron holds the girl against

his chest until all the workers are gone. She struggles feebly,

half-heartedly.

She stops struggling.

His hands loosen, and he releases her.

We see the faint pale image of the girl from full face for the first

time. She looks tired and uninterested. Her face...is Lora's face,

still beautiful in its pallor.

Slowly she obeys.

A slow smile appears on his face.

He extends his own hand to touch hers, palm to palm. As contact is

made, a rich glow appears between the two hands, strengthening as we

watch. A look of wonder crosses her face as the energy flows into

her. She turns, entwining her fingers in Tron's.

She throws her arms around him.

She-looks around nervously.

They walk quickly toward a flight of stairs.

Tron and Yori are cautiously passing along the sidewalk. We can see

the glowing beam of the 1/0 Tower over the tops of all the buildings,

and several half-gone programs standing around. As they pass, they

hear snatches of conversation.

Suddenly Yori looks up, sees something, grabs Tron's hand and pulls

him back into a nearby alley. She points up in the air.

as she looks up. Recognizer.

She shivers, and holds Tron's hand tighter.

Tron and Yori arrive at the ground level entrance.

Tron and Yori walk through long hallways and arrive at her door.

She whistles and the door disappears. They step through.

As Tron and Yori enter. The apartment appears to be a box, with one

window overlooking the cityscape, and the I/0 Tower. At first it

looks empty, with strange murals of one dimensional furniture on the

walls and floors.

She lays her palm on the wall near the door. The door reappears, and

a glow starts to fill the room, softly, slowly. Tron looks around;

the flat paintings of furniture are expanding, filling out, becoming

three-dimensional. The room glows a soft rose color, becomes

charming, soothing. It is still small and limited, but the light in

the air and the few pieces of furniture give off a loving, seductive

aura. Tron turns back to Yori, smiling, and stops.

With her hand still on the wall panel, she is glowing absorbing

extra energy, changing. The severe work clothes metamorphosize into

shimmering, diaphanous drapery, twinkling with thousands of

diamond-like points of light. A silvery tinkling SOUND comes from

her robes as she moves forward; her beautiful face, now surrounded

by a soft mane of hair, glows with pleasure at the expression in

Tron's face. She smiles lovingly, and reaches out her hand.

His face tells the story. The fugitive, returned from long exile, is

being fully rewarded for his efforts.

as their hands touch, and the glow springs out between their

flattened palms.

Tron pulls her close to him, sliding his hand up her arm, leaving a

glowing trace, and her hands move up over his chest.

They move together into an embrace, but their lips never touch. All

the energy is transmitted through their hands. They sink down onto

what looks like cushions made of stars, their glow increasing. The

room fills with the brilliance of the energy they are giving each

other, and we hear their sighs, as the MUSIC comes up. Each of them

moves their hands over the other, moving slowly, as if they were

trying to touch the other's entire body at once. They roll over and

are enveloped in the cloud of stars...

hovering in the air above the factory city, moving slowly forward.

ZOOM OUT past the carrier towards the landscape beyond.

A slightly out-of-control Recognizer arrives in the city, wobbling,

careening, glancing off a building or two.

Flynn is having trouble controlling the Reco.

He lays his hands from panel to panel, causing one after another to

light up in a random pattern, almost with a beat, but the Recognizer

only slams into another building and keeps going. The Bit starts

shouting:

Flynn looks frantically around, spies a large panel to one side that

he hasn't tried yet, and slaps his palm down on it.

as the Reco screeches to a screaming stop... but the head of it,

with Flynn and the Bit, breaks loose, and flies through the air,

landing in what looks like a garbage dump.

as Flynn shakily pulls himself out of the debris, the Bit nervously

hovering over him.

A group of low resolution programs are walking by. Flynn emerges

from the broken-off head, stunned, but unhurt, the Bit flying by

his side. He blearily sees the passing programs, but doesn't realize

they are at such a low state of consciousness that they can't see

him.

They move on.

Tron and Yori are crossing an open plaza-like area, on their way to

the I/0 Tower. They pass by more zombie-like programs and overhear

bits of conversation, all in dead-sounding monotones.

It looms high overhead.

on a long curving walkway which encircles the base of the Tower,

approaching a wide door in the wall.

We see that it opens onto a wide elevator platform, which is now

rising upwards at a steep angle, carrying Tron and Yori smoothly

and silently towards an opening in a floor a hundred feet overhead.

looking upwards as they move.

as the elevator platform arrives, and they step off. We get the

sense of massive, over-size ceilings, floors, windows and machinery,

dwarfing the programs who come to the Tower to communicate,

preparing them for the experience, as a vaulting cathedral prepared

the sinner for confession. But here, everything is composed of clean,

sharp, angular surfaces.  On this second story there is floor and

ceiling, but no outer wall, so we can still see the city-grid below

and beyond.

Tron and Yori cautiously move forward across the floor, heading for

a door into the inner parts of the Tower.

of the I/0 Tower. A large, raised circular altar stands against one

wall, with a darkened opening behind it. A square, secondary altar

supports the first, about fifty feet up a side.

In the middle of the altar we see a structure of stacked, diminishing

steps, the final one forming the shoulders of an armless, padded

suit with a puffed headdress revealing the face of the I/0 Tower

priest, DUMONT. His eyes are shut. His face is lined with age, but

still holds a sprightly sensitivity. It is the face of Dr. Gibbs,

from the laser lab in the Real world. There is a large, V-shaped

opening behind the altar, and the circular steps glow a hot neon,

each a different color. The stripes of color thus formed bleed

upwards onto the wall, lining either side of the V opening. There is

only blackness beyond.

asleep.

Tron and Yori walk toward him from an entranceway across the wide

room, their footsteps ECHOING.

Tron and Yori stop at the foot of Dumont's altar.

The priest's eyes flicker open. He looks at Tron and Yori, doesn't

recognize either one.

Tron steps closer, speaks quietly to Dumont.

He pauses, sizing Tron up, considering it. Finally:

Dumont nods, and the neon glow fades a little.

Tron runs lightly up the steps, past Dumont, into the darkness

beyond.

We see Flynn and the Bit walking towards the Tower, staring

curiously at the zombie-like characters on the streets.

We see a face peer around it. Flynn.

Below him, at waist level, also peeking around the corner, we see

the glow of the Bit. Flynn moves out from the wall and starts going

down the hall, Bit following.

CAMERA SWIVELS and watches him walking quickly away from us. We HEAR

the sound of many feet marching as Flynn reaches the end of the

corridor. He stops and glances over his shoulder.

As he stares down at the far corner. The SOUND of marching feet

coming closer.

PULL BACK AND TRUCK IN FRONT as we get a view of these characters...

Sark... and a force of guards and six Blue Warriors. Sark is in

front, enjoyment on his face. As far as he's concerned he's just

going in for a final, easy kill of one renegade program who is

trapped.

as Sark and his men come around the corner. Flynn is nowhere to be

seen. Sark marches TOWARDS THE CAMERA, right into it.

at Sark and his men from the back as they continue on down the hall.

The file of men is moving away. We can see that there is a wide ledge

about ten feet up the wall, containing the lighting source.

looking down at the file of men going by. The last one passes.

Flynn suddenly drops down to the floor. The warrior turns snarling,

lifting his staff.

his hand in a fist, falling.

Flynn is standing over the fallen Warrior.

Flynn looks up AT THE CAMERA, finger to his lips.

We can see Sark's men marching on away from us, and Flynn leaning

over the warrior with the Bit hovering over him. As we watch, Flynn

places both his hands on the Blue Warrior's chest. Quickly, the blue

static pattern covering the guard flows into Flynn's hands up his

arms, and transfers entirely to him and the warrior derezzes.

marching fast down the corridor, after Sark.

surrounded by his guards. He. is looking up, eyes narrowed.

We see that he is standing in front of the huge, closed door to the

I/0 Tower central chamber. The guards have formed two long rows, and

Sark's lieutenant is standing by his side.

He turns.

We see Tron approaching a bell-shaped structure, with the brilliant

golden beam emerging from the highest point of the bell. It is

surrounded by a cylinder of energy hundreds of feet in diameter.

Tron walks into an opening at the base of the bell.

Tron stands on the rounded rim of a dish-shaped room, the floor of

which rises to a cone in the center. The top of the cone is a flat,

sliced-off surface. Tron walks down into the dish, a soft, padded

surface, and then climbs up to the flat, central podium. We see that

this surface is round, about four feet in diameter, and glowing from

within, with a complex circuit pattern embedded in it. Tron looks

down, and then up.

The curving inner surfaces of the bell culminate in a round opening.

We see Tron's upturned face. He steps up on the podium, hands gripped

into fists at his sides. His face is gradually filling with a deep

inner excitement and anticipation, his eyes searching the space

above. His expression remains still, his mouth closed and even. Only

his eyes project the emotion he is feeling, burning with the

knowledge of the experience to come.

He takes out his disk, grips it in both hands and slowly raises it

high above his head. He stands stiffly, willing the response to

happen... At first nothing stirs. Then a splendid, radiant beam of

light bursts down from the opening in the top of the bell,

illuminating Tron and the disk. His hands start to shake with the

force of the communication beam, and suddenly the disk is ripped

from his hands, to rise, glowing brilliantly, upwards to the source

of the light.

filled with a quiet awe, eyes narrowed against the strong light. His

hands drop to his sides. The disk rises out of sight, and we

intensifying with every second.

The glow is visible, illuminating Yori and Dumont.

A machine, floating above the floor, with a pointed cone facing the

door, is switched on, and a blast of pure electricity leaps from it

to the surface of the door with the SOUND of sizzling LIGHTNING

DISCHARGE--

Yori turns to look at the door, hearing this muffled sound.

One section of it is glowing, starting to de-rez.

Tron is looking upwards. Suddenly a voice booms out, echoing, and

distorted, Alan's voice.

In the air above Tron, images begin to materialize, shifting,

transparent forms. First we see a network with pinpoints of light

at each intersection; it rotates, and becomes a globe, with a

bright light at the center.

We see one of the intersection lights become very bright, and the

others dim.

As Alan's voice continues, we

A SHOT OF THE de-rezzing door. The dissolving section has expanded,

and we can start to see the guards inside.

The light increases in brilliance, as we hear Alan's voice fading out,

consumed by static.

He stops.

The voice is gone. The beam continues to bathe Tron in its glow, and

gradually we see an object emerging from the glow. The disk. It

slowly descends, Tron raises his hands to catch it, gripping it,

pulls it down and stares at it.

It is glowing with a new power. Superimposed on its surface is a

complex mandala pattern, changing kaleidoscopically as we watch,

shifting swirling liquid color.

Almost gone. We can hear the voices of Sark's men outside.

turning back to Dumont. Behind Dumont stands Tron, framed in the

entry to the Communication chamber.

He is rising from the altar, the rest of his body emerging from the

neon steps, until he is standing in front of Tron. We see that he

has on a floor-length robe with huge shoulder pads forming

winglike supports for the fabric.

As we watch, Tron comes forward, and grips Dumont's shoulder briefly.

Then he holds out his hand to Yori.

We see it is almost transparent, and as we watch, there is a burst

of energy and the door disappears into thousands of sparkling dots

of light.

It dissolves completely. Framed in the center of the opening, stands

Sark.

The blue warriors race by him, pouring into the chamber.

We see Dumont standing on the top of the steps, no sign of Tron and

Yori. The guards spread out through the room, Sark strides towards

Dumont.

furious.

As we see Tron and Yori racing through the streets, headed for it.

Tron and Yori enter. Solar Sailer simulation hovers.

As Tron and Yori race across the floor.

And we see them race towards it.

ABOVE, LOOKING DOWN AT THEM.

AND YORI

We see that this vessel is a simulation of a futuristic spacecraft,

designed for travel in the Real world using solar energy, with an

enormous metallic sail to catch the rays of sunlight like wind, and

move with the speed of light.  The sail is at the bow of the craft,

and a long, slender walkway connects it with the deck area, which is

made up of several connected flattened box-shapes, giving it the

look of a dragonfly. In this world, the Sailer catches data

transmission beams instead of sunlight, and is propelled along the

information paths to the Central Processing Unit.

The elevator platform brings Tron and Yori through the center,

forming part of the deck as it reaches a level position, locked

into place.

We see Yori bending over a console of touch panels.

The crowd of Sark's men are racing towards it.

Bending over the console, from the POV of the sail. As we watch, a

head leans into the frame from the right. A memory guard. Then we

see a hand gripping a staff, and the legs of another guard on the

left.

On the console, as Yori leans over it. We see that she is looking at

a map of the system, a flat grid, and on it, in miniature, are the

beam transfer points and transmission location.

silently. We can see Tron's back as he hears a noise. His head snaps

up; he sees the guards.

Abandoning any attempt at silence, leap forward, shouting, thrusting

their staffs at Tron.

and slashes the second across the face, knocking him out.

As Sark's men rush in and head for the stairs to the catwalks that

ring the hangar walls. They start swarming up.

reacting, holding his disk ready.

as guards start swarming on board. We see Tron move forward and then

stop, letting them come.

looking down at the walkway. Beyond it we can see the great door

starting to rise.

throwing his disk. It smashes into the guards in front, tossing them

backwards.

The great door is almost all the way up. We can see the Sail with

its tip ready to emerge. Below, on the ground, more guards are

racing towards the hangar.

Beating back the guards, tossing them over the side of the walkway.

We see one last guard standing on top of the bunker that forms the

connection of the craft to the sail. Tron advances on him... the

guard stares at him, then looks down... then jumps off, intimidated.

There's a sudden lurch forward, and Tron is thrown back, losing

his balance.

smiling.

The transmission beam is flowing, passing directly through the craft,

from behind, hitting the sail bunker, and passing through, so that

it looks like a headlight. The Sailer starts moving, fast,

accelerating so that it reaches a tremendous velocity in a matter of

seconds.

Back on the bridge of the carrier, Sark is in the MCP hologram. In

front of him, we see a view of the city below, and the hangar, and

the Solar Sailer -- racing away.

from the stern. Tron picks himself up from the floor where he was

thrown when the Sailer took off, and heads for Yori (at the camera).

He stops, seeing something.

Tron waves at her... then...

He looks over at the guard rail.

fingers gripping the rail. ZOOM IN on the fingers.

Several yards away from it. We see one of the blue warriors hanging

on, trying to get a leg up on the rail, and we see Tron race to the

edge, look over and see this guard.

By the rail with the blue arms and head in the shot. Tron raises his

disk to slam into the intruder, when suddenly a spherical glowing

shape comes into the frame from bottom right.

....Flynn.

Who looks down, really seeing the face below for the first time.

He loses his grip, and starts to fall. But Tron, just in time, grabs

Flynn's wrist and starts to pull him up. We see the blue static guard

disguise fade off Flynn.

leaning over the control console anxiously, watching Tron come up

the steps towards her with Flynn and the Bit.

As they reach her.

We see Flynn look at Yori and silently mouth "Lora" in surprise...

but then realize his mistake.

Tron shakes his head, sadly.

Tron and Yori are stunned and awed.

Flynn nods.

The aircraft carrier rolls past the camera.

looking out the observation window, as his lieutenant approaches

from behind.

Sark turns to face him.

lie stares at the lieutenant, paranoid

speeding through the System, right on target.

We see Flynn looking back the way they came. Yori is at the controls,

with Tron beside her, his arm around her shoulders, looking at Flynn.

He moves off down the walkway, the Bit following. Flynn turns and

leans out over the side.

We see an area of darkened, gloomy, two-dimensional shapes.

Where we see Dumont plugged into energy foot sockets. Two memory

guards stand by his side holding their staffs against his chest.

Dumont's face is wracked with pain, his robe torn, but his

expression is full of determination. As we watch, another blast of

torturous energy comes from the boots, and his face contorts. CAMERA

PULLS BACK AND ANGLES UP to the second level where we see Sark

looking down into the pit that is Dumont's cell.

He looks up.

of Sark.

from the front.

of Sark.

We see Tron at the bow. Flynn and Yori are up on the deck near the

controls, with the Bit hovering over them. Yori is, pointing

something out to Flynn.

reacting to the sight of something ahead of the Solar Sailer.

We see the transmission beam which carries the Solar Sailer

increasing in brightness, throbbing with a pulse of mad glowing

energy, coming towards the ship. It hits the sail, and the ship

shivers. The whole beam is now tripled in brightness.

As Tron runs up to Yori's side. He grabs her shoulder, pulling her

against him... they have to shout to be heard above the noise of the

increasing beam.

The ship is throbbing and jerking, bits of it de-rezzing.

Flynn looks around, points to one side.

Flynn suddenly looks to the bow of the ship, makes a decision, and

races forward.

We see Flynn race to the bow, where the horrendous power of the beam

is blasting away at the sails. He slows down, but keeps going.

Watching -

Also watching.

We see Flynn emerge, leaning out into the beam, his face brilliantly

illuminated by the beam. He reaches forward with one arm.

Entering the beam.

He is lying spread eagled at the bow, with one arm in the light. He

raises his other arm and points at the beam which was so close, but

too far to reach. Suddenly his whole body glows with the same

intensity as the beam.

Shielding their eyes from the light.

His body glowing, arm outstretched. Suddenly another beam blasts out

from his arm.

We see the new beam from Flynn's arm flash over to the neighboring

transmission beam and connect. We see the ship pulsing, and then

breaking free of the old beam, following the new path, and connecting

to the safe beam.

The craft starts to travel safely on its way.

Radiant. Tron amazed.

Tron races down the walkway toward Flynn, closely followed by Yori

and the Bit.

Carrying Flynn towards the stern, carefully, gingerly with Yori

watching.

as they reach the deck in front of Tron, as he holds Flynn. We can

see Yori's anxious face to one side. Flynn's head comes up for a

moment, dazed.

Flynn smiles weakly.

He faints.

Her face, upside-down, peering downward.

Yori is sitting on the floor beside the control console with Flynn

stretched out beside her, his head in her lap. Her hands are on

either side of his face. Tron is seated across from them and the Bit

is quietly floating beside him. In b.g. we SEE that the Solar Sailer

is passing through a series of narrow canyons.

She heads O.S., toward the bow.

The Sailer is about to pass the mouth of another canyon.

Tron looks away from Flynn for a moment to check the Sailer's

progress.

as the new canyon comes into sight. CAMERA LOOKS UP AND UP... to the

immense bulk of the aircraft carrier, moving fast toward the Sailer.

The carrier lurches forward and rams the Sailer, splitting it in

half.

Falling on top of one another, Flynn trying to pull Yori out of the

way as the bulk of the carrier appears to slam into Tron and he's

gone.

falling through space.

As the carrier keeps moving forward. Flynn holding Yori, and the Bit

hovers beside them. A second level of the carrier, with an open hold,

comes rushing at them.

The gaping hold rushes forward and the screen goes black.

Their half of the Sailer is scooped up into the carrier.

catching hold of something. He is swinging freely. Hanging onto a

wall, he starts pulling his feet up to gain a precarious foothold.

Dumont standing, facing the camera. HEAR door SLAMMING.

of cell. Yori rushes forward to Dumont. We see Flynn standing just

inside the door, shoulders slumped and we can see that his disk has

been removed.

Dumont holds Yori as she SOBS.

He looks up.

Flynn looks down at his hands and turns away, leaning against the

wall.

Her voice breaks, she turns away.

His voice trails off. Suddenly, a stronger LIGHT flashes on in the

cell, the door opens, and we see Sark standing there, framed in the

cell door.

As he catches sight of Flynn, his voice falters.

Flynn looks up curiously.

He points to Dumont. The guards grab him.

The guards start to drag Dumont out.

A guard pushes her roughly to the end of the cell.

LAUGHING, Sark leaves. The guards, with Dumont in custody, follow.

into the cell that holds a dozen dejected, defeated, aging programs,

the I/0 Tower guardians. We see the door to the cell open and guards

beginning to herd them out.

where we can see Sark walking towards an open portal. He looks down

into the cells at his feet and laughs again.

staring up as Sark moves past their cell and out of view.

of the carrier approaching a flat-topped mountain, with the

communication beam of the MCP visible at the very center.

of the MCP's mesa moving closer, the only structure visible in a

vast plain covered with a glowing grid.

We can see the observation port and below that a section of the

ship's structure is moving forward.

Sark's hand touching a control panel.

As the landing pod disengages completely, floating away from the

carrier and then starting its final journey to the MCP, picking up

speed on a straight and even course. We can see a small speck

clinging to one side of the pod...

TRON, holding himself braced into a narrow crack.

Yori is sitting with her head in her hands. Flynn is at the door

testing it, running his finger along the edges.

Of landing pod flying over the glowing grid that surrounds the MCP's

mesa.

from behind the carrier of the pod getting smaller with distance.

Steep cliff face of the MCP's mesa is coming closer and closer, more

and more detail visible.

tiny against the massive bulk of the MCP's mesa, descending for

landing. The top edge of the cliff is encrusted with irregular

shapes and the pod is headed for one opening among the shapes,

fitting itself neatly in between so that it becomes a part of the

structure.

There is a minor jolt and Sark lays his palm on another panel. From

the rear wall of the pod we see the entire front wall rising slowly.

Sark and his lieutenant stand by either side of the door, and we

gradually are given a view of the MCP, two or three miles away at

the center of the plain ahead. The structure is a series of gleaming

black blades, forming a great cylinder, and the communication beam

rises out of the center of this cylinder.

floating upwards and forward.

Flynn still at the door. Suddenly his hand goes right through the

door.

The door is disappearing, dissolving.

He stops in horror.

Yori is standing lethargically staring at her hands... through them.

She is de-rezzing too. Her whole body becoming transparent. She looks

up dimly at Flynn, with no expression.

Flynn races back to her and takes her in his arms roughly, hugging

her close, his energy flowing into her.

Their faces are very close as he stares down, terrified that he is

too late to save her. Her eyes are half-closed.

Just their two faces. Flynn bends closer, their lips almost touch.

Suddenly her eyes widen as her form returns to solidarity, and color

floods back into her. Her mouth opens in wonder and she looks up at

Flynn. He pulls a little away from her, still holding her.

Flynn lets go of her.

He looks around, spots a small glow in one corner of the cell, runs

to it and stoops down, cupping the glow in his hands. It wavers.

Flynn wills his energy back into it, frowning with concentration.

Suddenly the Bit pops into life.

They head for the door.

The prisoners file forward on the path to the MCP. Sark is leading

them. We can see the structure of the MCP closer now, looming bigger.

The four memory guards are standing at regular intervals along the

path.

on duty. He hears a NOISE and turns... and in a flash of light a

speeding disk smashes into him, knocking him over. The CAMERA WATCHES

over his de-rezzing body. We see a figure approaching closer... its

arm is raised, and... the disk slams back into the hand.

It is Tron. He steps over the body of the Lieutenant.

from right outside. We see the prisoners beginning to file inside,

up the final slope leading to the base of the MCP.

to the MCP. As the guardian programs enter. Sark stands waiting,

watching them, his back to the camera.

As the first one gets through the opening. The light from the MCP's

beam pours out. Moving forward, through the entrance, the MCP is

finally revealed. A giant cylinder, a hundred feet high, with a

network of circuit lines, and stretched across all the visible

surface... is a face. Flattened, stretched, bizarrely distorted,

the face is capable of moving to any section of the-cylinder. The

impression is similar to the look of a grotesquely fat person's face,

but more so. It's horrible. Beneath the floating cylinder face two

inverted cones of light, meeting at their apex, support it. We

continue moving forward, the MCP looming over us. Then the CAMERA

STOPS and the doomed programs file past us, separating and going to

the inner walls. The MCP speaks, we see his enormous lips moving.

lining the wall. They are sucked back, pinned, immobile, and we see

them starting to de-rez.

The programs begin to disappear, one by one.

Sark stands in front of Dumont.

Dumont's face is devoid of hope. He starts into the MCP's inner

chamber.

seeing the MCP, reacting.

Over Dumont's shoulder, with a view of the MCP. Zoom IN on MCP's

face.

Flynn and Yori race into view. We can see two of the memory guards

in a de-rezzed, two dimensional state, disappearing completely in

the course of this scene. Flynn runs to Sark's position, looking out

the window.

As Yori looks over the control conso1e.

Down the length of the carrier. It is de-rezzing, parts of it gone

already. We see the CPU approaching, as the carrier rises.

The carrier drifts over the edge of the mesa, high above it, whole

sections only visible as outlines.

CAMERA MOVING FORWARD towards the MCP's beam.

He is slowly disappearing.

Sark is standing, looking in the opening, waiting for the signal to

depart. His back is to the camera.

Sark turns, curious, eyes widen incredulously..

We SEE Tron standing, legs spread, arms poised by his sides, disk in

one hand. It gives off a pure white light.

Sark flings his disk with a violent jerk of his wrist.

as the disk races at Tron. He dodges, drops to one knee and ducks

under it. Sark's disk circles like a homing missile and attacks

again. Tron deflects the second attack with his own disk, and the

two meet with an explosion of light. Sark's disk ricochets off and

races away, back to Sark. We see Tron throw his own weapon.

He looks out sees something, does a double-take, looks again

as Yori runs to Flynn's side and-peers down.

tears of joy streaming down her face.

the fight continuing.

His hands, laying on the control console, begin to send forth great

pulses of glowing energy into the carrier.

Sark's face.

Tron's disk circles Sark, attacking twice. Sark deflects it and

immediately throws his own disk.

racing almost side by side through the air.

as the two disks come at him.

He leaps into the air, grabs his own disk, pulling his legs up as

Sark's disk passes under him.

Making a sharp turn in the air.

He looks over his shoulder, sees the disk coming at him.

As he slams his own disk into Sark's, using his as a shield.

Tron hurls again.

Flynn is at the controls, transferring power.

She looks down at the battle. Her hand reaches over and grips

Flynn's tightly.

He catches his own disk, spots Tron's coming at him right behind,

and holds up his own disk as a shield.

turning sideways in its flight, edge on.

With a CRASH and explosion of light, Tron's disk cuts right through

Sark's disk, and on through Sark's head. The disk shatters, and we

see Sark's surprised face, hands still in position to hold the

disk... a jagged open slash right through his forehead. We can see

energy pouring out of this wound like blood.

Sark falls, dead, face first.

wailing past Sark's body.

as he goes in the MCP's inner chamber.

framed in the doorway.

Tron throws his disk. It's deflected off the base of the MCP, and

returns to him.

As Tron is preparing to throw again he notices Dumont and races over

to him.

Dumont is transparent. Tron runs up to him.

He turns, murder in his eyes, draws back his arm for the throw.

Tron throws.

The disk smashes into him. Once, twice...

The voice reverberates, shaking the chamber. Tron continues to throw.

Sark's dead hand. We see the circuit pattern of the mesa top begin

to glow around the hand, throbbing with energy. The hand moves.

throwing again at the MCP, hitting, catching his disk again.

His body is glowing, expanding. He starts to rise, his face looks up.

It is vacant, staring with white eyes. His head still has the gaping

hole in the forehead. He's a zombie, the living dead. He rises.

Carrier floating over the CPU, near the MCP's beam. Flynn looks out,

from side to side, quickly assessing the possibilities. He spots the

beam.

very close.

Yori looks up.

about to fire again. There's a sudden roar and Tron turns.

Who rips open the doorway into the MCP and advances.

Yori has steered them right next to the beam. She turns to Flynn,

goes up to him.

He takes her in his arms.

His head bends down and their lips meet. Yori's body begins to glow,

change, metamorphosize until she has the same appearance as in the

love scene with Tron, sparkling and gorgeous. Her eyes are closed.

Finally Flynn pulls away from her. Her eyes stay shut for a second,

then open.

He releases her, steps to the edge of the observation port, poises

on the brink, and then leaps off, directly in the beam. We see Yori

shakily grip the edge of the port and lean out.

Flynn is diving through space in the beam, falling in slow motion

directly into the center of MCP itself.

Sark is much bigger than before, advancing on Tron. He speaks, but

his voice is that of the MCP.

We can see the MCP in the b.g. Suddenly there is an explosion of

static, as Flynn falls into the MCP. We see a weird 2-D image of

Flynn's face circling in the cylinder with the MCP as they battle.

Sark falters, stumbles, distracted by this, and Tron ducks under him

and hurls the code disk for the last time. It circles the MCP once,

and then hurtles straight for the target, the apex of the energy

cones. And connects.

A brilliant explosion of lights bursts out.

Dead face wracked with the pain of a second death. He begins to melt

into a column of pure energy, dissipating completely.

We see something materializing in the apex of the energy cones. It

is dressed like Dumont was at the I/0 Tower, an old man in the

padded altar costume, spinning, slowly, finally stopping. We see the

wizened, wrinkled face of the true MCP for just a few seconds, and

see that he is furiosly TYPING on an old Remington portable. Then he

too dissolves into liquid energy, and disappears. The cylinder of

the MCP glows brighter and brighter.

on the bridge of the carrier looking down at this.

A fountain of energy explodes upwards like a Supernova, right at the

camera.

shielding her face from the power of the blast.

The nova of energy bursting upwards. We start to see the glow

returning to the surrounding domains, as the nova dissipates,

leaving the sky full of sparkling stars.

still shielding her eyes, but looking out in wonder at the domains

regaining their life.

one domain after another, scattered around the horizon, glows

brightly, increasing.

The carrier starts to descend.

Leading Dumont out of the chamber with several of the other guardian

programs that were saved. He looks up, spots the carrier descending.

Basically all that is left of it is the bridge, with only a very

faint image of the rest of the body. It lands on the mesa.

Tron catches Yori as she jumps down. He hugs her close and looks at

her, about to speak. But she reaches up and presses her lips to his

in a quick, intense kiss. Then pulls back.

He looks up at the bridge.

Tron stares at her, holding onto her shoulders. Then he looks up at

the sky, thoughtfully. She also looks up.

of the landscape, glowing again with new life, every I/O Tower a

shining beacon, a symbol of the new found freedom of communication.

and returning to the real world.

CLOSE on the business end of the huge laser in ICOM's lab. A bright

blast of LIGHT shoots out of the mechanism.

WIDEN TO REVEAL the laser pouring its light onto the floor, near the

chair where Flynn was sitting when he was digitized.

Slowly -- in a reverse of his disappearance -- Flynn's BODY takes

shape on the floor. As the laser shuts off, he is revealed intact --

back in his real-world body and clothes... and as bewildered to find

himself here as he was when he first arrived in the electronic world.

He studies his hands -- and SEES that they're now nonluminescent

flesh and blood.

He looks out the window and SEES that it's shortly past dawn, with

weak sunlight coming in.

And, at the SOUND of light MACHINERY at work, he turns to look at

Lora's computer terminal, where a hard-copy computer PRINTER is

coughing out a long document on wide blue paper.

Flynn gets up off the floor, goes over to the printer, and READS the

document. As he does so, his eyes widen, and a SMILE appears on his

face.

The printer finishes its run, clicks patiently. Flynn, exuberant,

tears the printout from the machine and rushes to the door with it.

Bleary but excited, they gaze happily at the information on Alan's

CRT screen as Flynn bursts into the room, waving his printout.

Before he can say anything more, Alan turns to greet him, holding up

a seven-inch computer software FLOPPY DISK in its cardboard sleeve.

Alan and Lora look at him -- the same sort of mystified look he got

from Tron and Yori in the other world. He checks himself.

He shows them the printout. It takes Alan and Lora a few seconds of

reading it to figure out its significance.

Flynn folds up the printout, puts it in his pocket. Alan and Lora

get up, stretch, start wandering slowly toward the door with him.

As they talk, CAMERA PANS over to Alan's color CRT SCREEN and HOLDS

on it.

The lines of printed information that had filled it up wipe off, and

are replaced by a number of shapes very much like the ones in a

typical video game:

A BLUE CYLINDER, poised on a BLUE MESA -- resembling the MCP in the

electronic world. And THREE YELLOW ROCKETS. They move randomly at

first, then converge on the blue figure from three different

directions.

The yellow rockets all hit the blue mesa at the same time. It

EXPLODES in typical video-game fashion -- radiating lines of blue

SPARKS. The yellow rockets fly away from it and form a vertical

formation, heading together toward the side of the CRT screen as we

HEAR Flynn, Lora, and Alan heading for the door.

at the SOUND of the DOOR to Alan's office closing O.S., the three

yellow rockets leave the CRT screen, sailing off its left-hand edge.

HOLD a moment on the exploded blue figure and

