<b><!--

</b>if (window!= top)

top.location.href=location.href

<b>// -->

</b>

WILLOW

(c) LFL 1986

Lucasfilm LTD.

All Rights Reserved

FADE IN:

EXT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAY

Under gloomy sky a huge fortress looms on a volcanic

mountainside.  From within WE HEAR the agonizing scream

of a woman giving birth.

INT.. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAY

The scream continues as WE MOVE THROUGH the grim corri-

dors of the castle TOWARD stairs leading down to a

dungeon.

INT.. DUNGEON - DAY

Silhouetted in sadows, three Nockmaar MINIONS stand

guard.  In a jail cell, sex fully pregnant WOMEN watch

from behind iron bars.  The screaming stops.  There's a

moment of silence.  As WE MOVE INTO another jail cell

WE HEAR a slap and the first cry of a newborn BABY.

In the cell a black-robed DRUID watches intensely as

ETHNA, a midwife, leans over the MOTHER and wraps the

baby in swaddling.

Ethna peels back the swaddling.  On the baby's arm is a

small marking.

With great urgency the druid hurries up the dungeon

stairs.  Ethna gently places the baby on the mother's

breast.  The mother comforst the baby lovingly until it

stops crying.  Then she reaches out and clasps the

midwife's wrist.

Ethna nervously looks out at the guards, then shakes

her head at the mother.

Ethna hesitates.  Then decides.  She quickly wraps to-

gether some rags and gives them to the mother.

The mother kisses her baby and hands it to Ethna, who

hides the baby inside the basket of rags.  Ethna car-

ries the basket past the guards and up the stairs.

The mother lies back and sighs with relief.  Then she

hears clinking bootsteps and her eyes widen with fear.

QUEEN BAVMORDA sweeps down the dungeon stairs, her

black robes flowing behind her.  The druid hurries

alongside.

The guards fearfully move aside as Bavmorda enters the

cell.

Bavmorda grabs the rags away from the mother and anxi-

ously tears them apart.

One of the guards looks up the stairs.

Bavmorda flies into a rage.

Two guards draw swords and charge upstairs.  Bavmorda

grabs the third guard and nods toward the mother.

Bavmorda storms away with the druid.  WE SEE the shadow

of the guard move over the terrified mother.  War drums

begin to beat out an alarm.

EXT. SNOWY MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

TITLES BEGIN.  The midwife hurries through swirling

show, clutching the baby.

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

Nockmaar troops on horseback charge into a desolate

village, driving ferocious DEATH DOGS into huts,

violently searching for the baby.  The oppressed, poor

VILLAGERS are yanked into the street.  Some of them are

beaten.  One is killed.

The midwife hides behind a hut, still holding the baby,

then runs away from the village.

EXT. GRASSLAND - DAY

Ethna treks across an open grass field.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

She huddles by a fire, exhausted and hungry, her

clothes filthy and torn, and she rocks the crying baby.

She hears dogs howling in the distance.  She clutches

the baby, kicks out the fire, and runs.

EXT. OCEAN CLIFFSIDE - DAY

She scrambles over rocks on a windswept coastline.

EXT. FOREST - DAWN

Ethna runs desperately for her life.  Chasing her are

two vicious DEATH DOGS.  She scrambles across a shallow

river.  She claws at rock and tears away sticks and

driftwood matted together with weeds.  Into this she

places the baby and sets it afloat downstream.

The dogs lunge from the woods and splash across the

river.  The midwife claws her way up a steep bank, lur-

ing the dogs.  As they attack her:

She grabs a stick and tries to defend herself, thrash-

ing at the snarling dogs.

From the baby's view, as it floats down the river, WE

SEE the dogs kill the midwife beyond the distant trees.

EXT. DOWNRIVER - DAY - MONTAGE

The little raft of sticks swirls precariously in the

current.  It glances off jutting rocks, tumbles over

rapids, and scrapes under overhanging trees.

EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY

At last the raft catches in some weeks, almost dumping

the baby.

TITLE SEQUENCE ENDS

Suddenly WE HEAR rustling leaves, possibly another

Death Dog.  Then WE HEAR giggling.  Two children, RANON

and MIMS, watch in amazement from the riverbank.

EXT. UFGOOD FARM - DAY

Holding onto a plow, WILLOW UFGOOD struggles behind a

huge hog.  From a heavy sack slung over his shoulder he

tosses seeds.

Willow beams with joy as his son and daughter race to-

ward him.  They grab his sleeves and tug him away from

his plow.

Willow drops his sack of seeds.  The ugly hog glares at

him like a guilty conscience.  The children squeal with

excitement as their father runs toward the river with

them.

EXT. RIVERBANK - DAY

WE SEE Willow from the baby's view.  His eyes pop open.

He quickly backs his children away.

Willow drags Mims away.  Then the baby starts crying.

Willow, in a sudden panic, sees BURGLEKUTT in the dis-

tance.  He splashes into the river, grabs the raft,

plunks it on the bank and tries to hush the crying

baby.

EXT. UFGOOD FARM - DAY

Burglekutt's beady eyes spot Willow making a mad dash

for his plow.  Swinging his fat stomach, he angrily

points his walking stick and goes after him.

Willow's wife KIAYA chases Burglekutt across the field,

her beautiful long hair flowing behind her.  Willow

quickly gets behind his plow like he's been there all

day.

Burglekutt furiously scoops a handful of seeds out of

Willow's sack and shakes them under Willow's nose.

With pride, Willow puts his arm around his wife.

Suddenly the children laugh in the distance.

In alarm she runs off before Willow can stop her.  Bur-

glekutt sweeps the horizon with his walking stick.

He raises the seeds high above his head, then smashes

them down at Willow's boots.  He waddles away toward

two of his MEN who wait by the road.  Then:  Kiaya

SHRIEKS from the river.  Burglekutt stops in his tracks

and shakes his head as if to say "the whole family's

crazy."  Off he trudges.  Willow watches and waits.

Then runs as fast as he can to the river.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Kiaya cradles the baby in her arms.  Willow runs up,

and with patriarchal authority, puts his fists on his

hips.

They all fall in love as he speaks.  The children fol-

low Kiaya up on the bank, walking right past Willow.

Ignored, Willow huffs after them across his unplowed

field.

INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - DAY

Willow nervously paces as Kiaya pours water in a wood

tub and the children entertain the naked baby with

sticks and brightly colored cloths, apparatus for a

magic trick.

The baby squeals with joy as Kiaya lifts her into the

bath.

He shudders at the thought.

Willow leans forward.  On the baby's shoulder is a

small branded scar in a circular design.  It only adds

to Willow's fears.

The baby kicks and splashes and giggles in the bath.

EXT. NELWYN VILLAGE - DAY

The raucous BAND plays as NELWYNS dance and celebrate

amid brochs and wheelhouses garlanded with flowers.  A

crowd cheers wildly as MINERS battle FARMERS in a tug-

of-war, finally yanking the farmers face-first into a

puddle of mud.  On a stage a HARLEQUIN dances delight-

fully.  While on a raised platform the five members of

the VILLAGE COUNCIL sit and observe, mildly amused.

The head councilman is Burglekutt.

The WE SEE Willow on another stage.  He flourishes his

colorful sticks and cloths.  In the audience WE NOTICE

his friend MEEGOSH, who wears a miner's apron, rooting

Willow on.

Meegosh applauds as Mims and Ranon trot out lugging a

tiny baby pig in a crate.  As Willow takes the pig out

it bites his hand and gets away.  Willow tackles and

squashes it.  The crowd laughs and half of them leave,

and Meegosh covers his face.

Mims and Ranon rapidly wave a bright blanket.  Willow

cleverly whips the pig under his legs and behind his

back and suddenly it's gone!  Impresse, the crowd

gasps.  Then the pig squeals and dashes through

Willow's legs and leaps off the stage.

Burglekutt and the Council shake their heads as Willow,

embarassed, picks up his things.  Meegosh trots up

with the pig under his arm.

But as they walk past the Village Council, and Bur-

glekutt sneers down at Willow, Meegosh catches on.

The Village Council members stand up respectfully as

the wise old HIGH ALDWIN hobbles through the adoring

crowd.  Mims and Ranon rush up to Willow with several

other children who are eating candy.

But Willow has already wandered into the crowd, leaving

Meegosh with a dozen sugar-charged children and a pig.

Willow desperately pushes past people and finally

reaches the High Aldwin.

Burglekutt stares angrily from his platform.  Slightly

annoyed, the High Aldwin stops and places his hand on

Willow's shoulder.

Suddenly a walking stick is pointed at Willow's nose.

His belly shakes as he howls with laughter, encouraging

his councilmen to join in.  Willow shrinks away, em-

barassed.

Then a terrified SHRIEK shatters the festivity.  Music

stops and people grab their children and run for their

lives.  A DEATH DOG rips a trail of destruction through

the village.

Meegosh holds onto Ranon and Mims.  But when Mims sees

Willow she runs right out into the open.  Willow

charges twoard her, tackling her and rolling away from

the beast's claws.

A loud war cry distracts the dog.  VOHNKAR, the

toughest warrior in the village, leads a charging army

of miners and farmers wielding shovels and picks.  Wil-

low and Meegosh grab sticks.  The Nelwyns battle the

Death Dog.  At last, Vohnkar drives a spear through its

chest and it dies hideously.

Mothers grab their children, people look around the

wrecked village in terror.  There's a haunting silence.

Suddenly alarmed, Willow races towrd his distant farm,

his children hurrying behind.

INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - DAY

Willow bursts in and finds Kiaya calmly feeding the

baby.  Relieved, he throws his arms around her.

The children run in and they all huddle together, cher-

ishing their precious lives.

INT. COUNCIL BUILDING - DAY

Arguing villagers pack the church-shaped room to the

open door at the back and into the balconies above.

The councilmen sit on a platform at the front, with the

High Aldwin seated in a special chair above them.  Tak-

ing charge, Burglekutt stands and pounds the floor with

his walking stick.

This only adds to the frenzy.

Amid the chaos the High Aldwin slowly stands up.  As if

he senses something, he looks over the crowd toward the

back.

At the back door, holding the baby, Willow tries to

push his way through the jostling crowd.  The High

Aldwin raises his hand.  It flashes magically.  He

points as he speaks:

The crowd stands apart as Willow walks the length of

the room.  Kiaya and the children follow part way and

then stand aside next to Meegosh.  Burglekutt simmers

as Willow approaches the platform.

The crowd stirs but the High Aldwin silences them with

a simple gesture.  He gazes down at the baby mysteri-

ously.

The crowd rumbles, many agree.

Burglekutt whips up the shouting crowd.  The High

Aldwin raises his hands, feeling the air above him.

Almost in a trance:

Instantly, the High Aldwin drops his arms and opens his

eyes.

The room goes silent.

Vohnkar the warrior elbows his way to the front and

pounds his chest once with his fist.

Brave Vohnkar swallows and shifts his weight doubtful-

ly.

The crowd rumbles and shouts, and Vohnkar mops his brow

and scuttles away from the platform.

All eyes turn to Willow.  Kiaya gasps and Meegosh holds

her back.

The crowd cheers wildly.  The High Aldwin steps forward

to the edge of the platform.  With a flourish he waves

his arms.

Something rattles as he shakes his cupped hands.  The

crowd jumps away.  The High Aldwin scatters small bones

across the floor below him.  He leans down and studies

the bones.  Willow looks at Kiaya, who is worried and

afraid.  The High Aldwin speaks softly to him:

Willow hesitates.  He looks at the baby.

The High Aldwin bolts straight up, broadcasting:

The people shout and cheer and applaud and begin to

leave.  Kiaya and Meegosh and the children push their

way toward Willow, who stands there staring at the

baby.

INT. UFGOOD HOUSE - NIGHT

Kiaya's hair hangs down her back in a long tight braid.

Near the fire she packs supplies into a travel sack.

On the other side of the fire, Willow diapers the baby.

The house is quiet.

Willow sets the baby down.  He goes around an opne wall

an sits on his daughter's bed, straightening her blank-

ets and toys.

He smiles and kisses her.  Then crosses over to Ranon's bed.

Willow shrugs.  Ranon sits up in bed.

Ranon slides down under his blankets.  Willow kisses

him, looks at him a moment, then quietly withdraws to-

ward the fire.

EXT. SACRED HILL - SUNRISE

The silhouette of a distant hill with druid stones on

top.

Carrying the baby, Willow climbs the hill with his fami-

ly.  He wears a papoose rig, supply pack, and a dagger.

He hands the baby to Kiaya, then walks through the

towering stones.  The High Aldwin solemnly looks out at

the distant forest.

The High Aldwin picks up a rock.  With intense concen-

tration he squeezes it in his outstretched hand.  Then

throws it in the air.  It changes into a bird and flies

away.

The High Aldwin touches Willow's shoulder and turns

away.  The children are playing tag among the stones.

Willow hugs them.  Kiaya places the baby in the papoose.

Kiaya, whose head is covered with a kerchief, places a

braided necklace on her own hair around Willow's neck.

He kisses her.  The adjusts the papoose and heads off

down the hill.  The others wave goodbye sadly.

Kiaya rushes down the hill and passionately throws her

arms around Willow, tears in her eyes.  At last they

break apart, and Willow begins the journey.

EXT. WOODS - DAY - MONTAGE

Willow hikes through strange and wondrous terrain,

amazed and frightened.  Animals rustle in the brush and

he stumbles into a thistle patch, jumping out picking

burrs off his legs.  He hides from a fierce bear.  The

bear sees him and runs away.  Willow hurries along,

shifting the papoose, getting used to the baby's

weight.

EXT. ROAD - EVENING

The baby is fussing hungrily.  Willow impetuously digs

a bladder of goat's milk from his sack and struggles to

feed her.  Then he hears something.  Sensing danger, he

clutches the baby and runs down a nearby riverbank.  He

hides under a bridge.

NOCKMAAR SOLDIERS on horseback thunder toward the

bridge, led by the knight SORSHA whose face is hidden

under a black helmet and visor.  In the other direction

Willow sees a LIEUTENANT and two DEATH DOGS.  They all

meet on the bridge.  The hideous soldiers are part hu-

man, part beast.

One of the Death Dogs is chewing on the Lieutenant's

stirrup.

The dog panics and gnashes at the Lieutenant's arm,

ripping away a piece of armor with its teeth.  Horses

rear.  The Lieutenant draws his sword lightning-fast.

He slices and kills the Death Dog.  The baby begins to

cry but the death-howl of the beast drowns her out as

it does hurtling off the bridge into the river below.

The soldiers gallop off into the woods.

Willow falls back against the riverbank, shrinking away

from the murdered Death Dog which lies bloody and

twisted in the water.  The terrified baby cries in his

arms.

EXT. ROAD - MORNING

A harmless rabbit springs across Willow's path.  Willow

trips over a stone and almost falls flat on his face.

He hurries along the road, looking over his shoulder.

EXT. LANDSCAPE - DAY - MONTAGE

Various VIEWS of Willow and the baby trekking across

vast hills and valleys.

EXT. HILL - DAY

Gasping with exhaustion, Willow staggers up a sloping

hill and drops to his knees.  His eyes brighten.  In

the distance he sees a junction marked by a high wooden

scaffolding.

He stands and heads toward it cautiously.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY

The place is disgusting.  Littered with junk, buzzing

with flies, plagued with rodents.  Willow creeps toward

the scaffolding, covering his face against the stench.

From it hang two cages.  In one is a heap of filthy

rags.  In the other a half-clothed skeleton with one

bony arm dangling out.

Willow unpacks the papoose and looks up the deserted

road.  He shivers with cold.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY - LATER

Willow waits uneasily, brushing flies off his face.

The baby fusses and squirms.  He peeks inside her

diaper.

He looks anxiously up and down the road.  The baby's

crying gets worse.  He begins to change her.

EXT. CROSSROADS - SUNSET

Willow finishes building a fire, lighting it with flint

and blowing it into flame.  The baby lies quietly near-

by in a kind fo porta-crib made of papoose and twigs.

Nightfall teems with spooky noises:  crickets, frogs,

bats, owls and howling wolves.  Then a terrible moan

frightens him.

Not sure where it came from. he backs away from the

fire, under the rag-filled cage.  Suddenly a hand

reaches down and yanks Willow up off the ground!  Wil-

low screams.  The baby cries.  And WE SEE the haggard

unwashed unshaven face of MADMARTIGAN pressing against

the bars of the cage.

Madmartigan shakes Willow like a rag-doll until Willow

nods his head yes.  Then drops him.  Instantly Willow

races around that fire, picking up everything he owns.

Willow grabs the baby and makes a beeline for the

bushes.

He dives headfirst into the weeds.  Madmartigan rattles

his cage.

Willow peeks at him and shakes his head.

They stare at each other across the fire.  Then, Mad-

martigan puts on a very phony smile.

Madmartigan drops the smile and spits at the fire.

Willow throws a rock at him.  It bounces off the cage.

Madmartigan sags down into a heap of rags again.

EXT. CROSSROADs - NIGHT

The wind howls through the distant trees as darkness falls.

Willow rocks the baby and eats some bread.  Madmartigan

watches him hungrily, sighing, forlorn, his eyes asking

for pit.  Willow glances at him.  Finally, he can't

take any more and he puts down the baby and pous some

goat's milk in a cup.  He reaches up on tip-toes and

offers the milk to Madmartigan.

Madmartigan snatches the cup and guzzles the milk,

retching horribly at the taste.  Then he tosses the cup

back.

Madmartigan grabs the bars and raises himself up.

He makes little kissing noises to the baby, trying to

be sweet.  However, his teeth are filthy.

Willow retreats to the fire.  Madmartigan whacks the

cage with the back of his hand.

EXT. CROSSROADS - NIGHT- LATER

By the blazing fire Willow feeds the baby.  WE HEAR

hoofbeats.

Excited, Willow tosses more wood on the fire, picks up

the baby and waits.

Torches appear up the road.  A horse-drawn wagon

clatters full-speed toward the fire.  WE HEAR load

drunken voices, far from friendly.  Willow quickly

dives into the bushes.

Four boorish PICTS, with tatooed faces and arms, halt

at the crossroads, yelling and waving their torches.

Madmartigan is hidden under his rags.  For fun the

Picts set fire to the skeleton cage.  Then head for the

other.

He rises up in the torchlight.  The Picts taunt him.

They jab their torches at Madmartigan.

Madmartigan points way up the road.  The Picts ride

away.  As they go, they swing his cage and st fire to

the floor of it.  Madmartigan frantically geats the

flames.  His sleeves ignite.

Willow scrambles out of the bushes and scoops up hand-

fuls of dirt, which he chucks at Madmartigan.

Madmartigan literally licks his wounds, dragging his

parched tongue along the length of his forearm.  Willow

begins to walk away.

Willow stops and turns around.

Madmartigan slinks down like a cat and slowly extends

his derty hand through the bars.

Willow stares warily at the hand.  Madmartigan smiles.

Willow quickly shakes his hand and jumps away.  Madmar-

tigan laughs in a harmless, friendly way.

A rat lumbers out of the darkness and sniffs toward the

baby in the porta-crib.  Madmartigan suddenly points.

Willow screams and chases the rat away.  Madmartigan

shakes his head as solemnly as an undertaker.

After a moment, Willow takes out his dagger.  He stands

on his toes under a cage, reaches up, and hacks at the

chain lock.  Madmartigan's eyes widen over-eagerly.  he

rubs his hands together and licks his lips.

Willow suddenly steps away.

Madmartigan goes berserk.  His arms flail and the whole

cage shakes and swings and he bangs his head on the

roof.

Willow scrambles back to the fire and scoops up the

baby and rocks her in his arms.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAWN

Madmartigan is making something out of scraps of bark

and cloth.  He smiles sweetly as Willow wakes up.

Willow turns his back on him and tends to the baby.

Willow looks over.  madmartigan pats his arms in pain.

He holds up his arms in agony.  Willow fishes some

gooey jelly out of his sack and smears a gob of it on a

leaf.  He hands it up to Madmartigan.

Madmartigan wipes the goo all over his arms.

He holds out a ratlle and shakes it.  Willow accepts

it.

Madmartigan sticks his finger in his mouth and pries it

open as wide as possible.

Noise in the distance.  up the road Willow sees a

MESSENGER charging on horseback.  He gallops right

past, whipping his horse, almost knocking Willow off

the road.  Then another MESSENGER follows with the same

urgency.  Willow grabs the baby and steps out to stop

him.

The messenger screams a Willow who jumps aside as he

thunders by.  The two horsemen disappear up the road.

Madmartigan slices the air with an imaginary sword.

Willow shakes his head and goes back to the baby.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY

WE SEE the empty road.  Willow's head pops INTO FRAME.

He grabs the baby.

The horizon rumbles.  Madmartigan cups his ear.  Cyni-

cally:

Two CAVALRY OFFICERS gallop into view, raising a plume

of dust.  Then an enormous ARMY appears:  cavalry, foot

soldiers, assault wagons: shields, swords, spears,

raised banners.

The two officers shout orders over the thunderous

clamor of hoofbeats, marching boots and clanking armor.

Charging back and forth, they shepherd the army through

the crossroads.  Willow holds the baby.  Fighting dust

and noise he tries to get the officer's attention.

An officer's horse nearly kicks Willow, who scurries

out of the way.  Huddling with the baby, he notices

AIRK THAUGHBAER, a large, muscular, bearded officer,

clearly in charge.  On horseback, Airk breaks file and

rides up to the other officers.

Shouting orders, the officers split up, charging to the

front and rear of the army.  Airk watches the army

pass.  Willow desperately scrambles up to him.

Huge Airk looks down from his huge horse.  Little Wil-

low holds up the baby.

Airk snaps hes head around and his eyes flash.

Airk's horse prances menacingly around Madmartigan's

cage.

Airk laughs sourly and rocks the cage.

He swings that cage and starts to ride away.

Airk quickly drops the banter and glares at Madmartigan seri-

ously.

Airk spurs his horse and smashes the cage as he charges

off.

Madmartigan snarls down at Willow as the army continues

to march by.  But then he quickly gets cute again.

EXT. CROSSROADS - DAY - LATER

A ghostly wind hants the barren crossroads.  The road

is pocked with hoofprints and wagon tracks.  Willow

shakes his head at the ashes of his dead fire.

Madmartigan squeezes his face between the bars of his

cage.

Madmartigan kneels and straightens up and points up his

finger astutely.

He clsps his hands together outside the bars, plead-

ing:

Willow looks at the baby in the porta-crib.  Then looks

up the empty road.  Then looks hard at Madmartigan.

Willow draws his dagger and begins to hack at the

chain.

Willow hacks and pries at the chain until it breaks

open.  The bottom of the cage falls out, dumping Mad-

martigan into a heap of rags and dust.

Kneeling on the ground, he plays with the baby.  Willow

quickly hitches the papoose to Madmartigan's back and

hands him supplies.

Willow takes the baby and kisses her.

He puts her in the papoose.

Madmartigan stands up.  He towers above Willow.  He

pats Willow on the head.

Madmartigan smiles, turns, and marches off down the

road.  Willow sighs with relief, his task accomplished.

He watches Madmartigan and the baby disappear over a

hill.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Swinging his arms and whistling a tune, Willow struts

proudly up a gentle hill.

The baby cries!  Willow spins around.  Flying towrd

him is an incredible VULTURE with enormous winds.  In

its claws it carries the baby, papoose and all.  It

swoops straight at Willow, buzzing him, and Willow hits

the dirt.  He looks up.  To add to the wonder:  riding

the vulutre is an ELF.

The vulture zooms off into the tall majestic trees of

the forest, with the baby crying.  Shouting and waving

madly, Willow gallops after it.

EXT. THROUGH THE FOREST - DAY

Willow tears after the vulture which vanishes in the

towering trees.  As the path narrows, something whis-

tlse past his ear.  Finger-length arrows rain down on

him from every direction, peppering the surrounding

trees.  Some even hit Willow.  He plucks them out as he

races along.

He comes to a fork in the path:  Decision!  He starts

down one way, then slams on the brakes.  He sees ropes

and nets.

He hurries back to the fork and takes the safer route--

--and gets swallowed by a deadly pit.

INT. ELFIN THRONE ROOM - UNDERGROUND

Willow wakes up as a pail of water hits him in the

face.  His feet and wrists are being bound.  Several

little ELVES are gawking and laughing at him.  They

wear samurai-type outfits and angry little haircuts.

FRANJEAN, the Elfin king, struts forward arrogantly.

He speaks a haughty, nasal accent resembling French:

Willow struggles against the ropes that bind him.

Outraged, Franjean smacks Willow's nose with the

back of his hand.

As he leaves, Franjean nods to an intense-looking ARCH-

ER elf heavily armed with arrows and a spear.  The

archer dips his spear in a bowl of purple liquid.  He

pricks Willow's arm.

FADE TO BLACK

INT. ELFIN THRONE ROOM - DAWN

Willow's eyes open.  A wild little face is looking at

him.  A wild little person is standing on his chest.

Too groggy to argue, Willow sticks out his tongue.

TEEMO the brownie crushes a brittle leaf and tosses the

dust into Willow's mouth.  Smacking his lips, Willow

comes around.  He sees, down between his legs, another

brownie named ROOL cutting the ropes.

Willow rolls onto his knees, stands up and bumps his

head on the ceiling.  The fuzzy-headed brownies creak

open the door and becon Willow to follow.  He squeezes

through.

INT. ELFIN HALLWAY - UNDERGROUND

Like a rabbit warren, compartments branch off the main

tunnel.  Willow scrunches along behind the tip-toeing

brownies.  They hear the baby crying.  They peek

through the door.

Inside a cluttered room they see thebaby crying miser-

ably.  Her tears are being carried to a high level in

tiny buckets on a mechanized wheel, operated by FOUR

ELVES.

The baby shrieks.

Teemo ridiculously pushes Willow away from the door.

With a macho swagger he adjusts his dagger belt, and he

and Rool open the door.

INT. ELFIN TEAR FACTORY

They enter like gunslingers in a saloon.  The four

elves, who are twice their size, turn and face them.

Teemo draws his small dagger.  With confidence he

smiles at Rool.

Artfully Teemo poises the dagger above his head.  With

all his might he throws.  His dagger flip-flops through

the air and lands at the elves' feet, plink-plunk.

Suddenly the entire wall implodes.  The elves scream

and panic as Willow comes crashing in like King Kong.

He grabs the crying baby and tucks her under his arm.

EXT. ELF HOLE - DAY

The brownies scamper out of a hole in the ground where

the elves keep their vultures corralled.

They untie th evulture and send them flapping away in

the forest as Willow wiggles out of the elf hole with

the baby.  They run for their lives.

EXT. FOREST - CHASE - DAY

Rool and teemo tear along at incredible speed, Willow

barely keeping up with them.  Little elf arrows shower

the forest as the angry elves chase after them, whoop-

ing and screaming.

EXT. DEEP GORGE - DAY

They skid up to a perilously deep drop into oblivion.

The elves are shrieking toward them. The only chance

of excape is a huge fallen tree spanning the gorge.

The brownies scamper out.  Willow looks down and reels

with vertigo.

The elf army pours out of the forest.  Willow holds his

breath and ventures out onto the topmost branches of

the tree.  Arrows zing around him as he wobbles like a

drunken tightrope walker toward the middle.  The brown-

ies wait for him.

The brownies console Willow with unworried laughter.

An ugly TROLL snarls up behind Willow.  They all scream

and race for the other side.  Another TROLL pops up to

meet them.  The trolls slink along like possums.  The

brownies dive through a hole in the hollow tree trunk.

The elves, meanwhile, flint-start a fire at their end

of the tree.  One troll claws at the brownies inside

the trunk while the other chases Willow across gangling

branches.  Then the baby falls out of the papoose!  She

tumbles and catches on a low branch and Willow races

the troll and grabs her just before she plummets into

the gorge.

One troll catches Rool but can't then get his claw out

of the trunk.  The brownies finally excape.  The tree

burns and breaks, dangling over the gorge by its roots.

A troll howls as he falls to his death.  The other

scrambles up the tree and grabs Willow's foot.

Willow's boot slips off and down goes the second troll.

Flames lick at Willow as he at last hauls himself to

safety, just as the roots snap and the blazing tree

goes crashing down in the gorge.

Willow bundles the baby and follows the brownies into

the forest.  Hobbling slightly on his bootless foot.

EXT. MAJESTIC FOREST - SUNSET

Fading sunlight bleeds through awesomely beautiful

trees as Willow and the brownies trek into the magical

Fairy Kingdom.  Elora Danan falls into a peaceful

sleep.

EXT. FAIRY KINGDOM - NIGHT

Willow comes to a halt.  His mouth drops open.  The

forest is a luminous Milky Way of dancing, flying

FAIRIES, like fireflies.  The brownies tug at his

pant-legs and whisper.

Wonder-struck, Willow walks into a clearing where

colorful night-flowers bloom.  He lowers himself onto

an enormous toadstool, testing it with his hand.  Other

BROWNIES stand watching, like courtiers.  The tiny

fairies fly up to Willow's face and giggle:  they look

like five-year-old girls, full of mischief and fun.

Suddenly a strange LIGHT begins to throb behind the

trees, peircing the forest with helter-skelter beams.

Willow throws up his arms as the bright light stings

his eyes.

CHERLINDREA, the Fairy Queen, materializes out of frag-

ments of moving light, diaphanous, sylph-like, beauti-

ful.

Willow says nothing, still batling the bright light.

The light diminishes, enabling Willow to see the queen.

She is a beautiful vision, with flowing hair and lumi-

nous eyes.  Her magical presence both stuns and

impresses Willow.  She turns to the brownies.

All the courtier brownies snap to attention and go into

action, bustling about, going to work, some even trip-

ping over one another.  They bring Willow a drink in a

delicate cup-shaped leaf, and he takes a sip.

The queen dissolves and reappears near Willow.  She le-

ans down and opens the baby's swaddling and looks at

the mark on the baby's arm.

The tiny fairies and the brownies stop work and sigh

with respect and amazement.  Cherlindrea seems to levi-

tate the baby out of Willow's arms, floating her magi-

cally onto a special cradle of stram and sticks.  The

brownies and fairies crowd around, with great rever-

ence.

Willow starts to get up.

The queen fragments and reappears right in front of

Willow.

The Fairy Queen flashes and vanishes.  Willow lowers

himself back down again.  She reappears behind him.

Willow can't keep track of her.  She keeps changing her

shape.  The brownies and fairies snicker at Willow's

confusion.

She is gone again.  Willow looks everywhere, frusturated

by these riddles and mysteries.

She reappears again.

From down at his feet, Rool and Teemo stare up, insult-

ed.

Cherlindrea drops three small objects in Willow's hand.

Willow looks at them for quite a while.

Willow looks closely at the acorns, then up at the

queen.

The forest light grows brighter.  The queen looms over

Willow and he again has to shield himself from the

brightness.

Now she intensifies her light so that Willow backs

away, completely covering his face.

The queen swirls around him like a solar wind, blowing

the forest trees, scaring even the brownies.  And then

all of a sudden:  silence.  And total darkness.  ALL WE

SEE, in dim moonlight, is Willow's face, peeking out

from between his fingers.

The queen's voice echoes the forest.

Very gradually and beautifully the firey fairies begin

to flicker, restoring light to the forest.  More light

genlty brightens, bathing the woods, and the Fairy

Queen reappears.  She is holding Elora Danan in her

arms.  The brownies creep out from behind the trees.

All eyes are upon Willow.

Willow takes the baby and looks at her for a moment.

He struggles with his conscience.  The fairies and

brownies wait in anticipation.  At last Willow looks up

at them, resolved and determined.

The fairy kingdom sends up a great cheer and applause.

Fairies giggle playfully around Willow's face, and

brownies hug his ankles.

EXT. WOODED HILL - DAY

WE SEE Willow's feet as he walks along.  He has himself

a brand-new shoe.

Spirits high, he treks in the sunshine, papoose

strapped to his back.  Teemo rides in his pocket, while

Rool straddles the papoose, tickling the giggling baby.

He digs a magic acorn out of his pocket and tosses it

high in the air.  The brownies gasp.

Rool points through the trees.  Willow hurries down the

hill to the tree-line.  In the valley below, 200 NOCK-

MAAR SOLDIERS and CALVALRYMEN battle a hundred ragtag

REBEL TROOPS.  From this sage position high on the

hillside, Willow watches in disgust.  Weapons clash and

men fall to their deaths.

They hear a CLANK behind them.  Willow slowly turns

around.  There is movement in the trees.  The hillside

woods are full of Nockmaar HORSEMEN moving right up next to him.

In the valley, the oupowered rebels are being forced

up the hill toward them.  Willow is suddenly standing

under several large horses and black-armored minions.

He is frozen in fear.

Swords flash and the horseman charge!  The brownies

jump and run for their lives.  Willow stumbles and

spins as horse after horse thunders past him, nearly

trampling him and the baby to death.

The Nockmaar reinforcements descend upon the remaining

rebels and crush them.  Willow falls and quickly digs

the baby out of the papoose.  She is shrieking in ter-

ror.  He holds her tight and runs along the tree-line,

following the brownies, while the bloody battle rages

below.

EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAY

Bleak rain dribbles down Willow's miserable face.  Pro-

tecting the baby, he hurries toward a tavern.  The bot-

tom of the building is an open stable with several

horses.  Two burly IRON-WORKERS clank a red-hot wagon

rim, fixing a nearby wagon hitched to a horse.

It's a rough place.  Rool and Teemo peek out of

Willow's pockets.  Upstairs PEOPLE drink and shout.

Suddenly there's a CRASH up above and two PICTS burst

through a balcony and land in the mud, fighting vi-

ciously.  Rool and Teemo duck inside Willow's pockets.

Willow steps around the Picts, dashes through the

stable and up the stairs.

INT. TAVERN - MAIN ROOM - DAY

The place is packed with tattooed PICTS, nomadic FAMI-

LIES, MOTHERS wit BABIES, THIEVES and CUTTHROATS.

Willow enters with the crying baby.

Everyone looks up.  Mopping a table is an ugly BARMAID

as big as a wrestler.

They hurl stuff at him and threaten him with their

weapons.  Willow runs along the wall and takes cover

under some stairs.  He pulls open his pocket and peers

down inside.

Instantly his pocket whips shut and trembles.  Willow

cautiously looks out under the stairs.  He sees a pail

of milk very near some ROUGHNECKS.  Willow puts his

little finger in the baby's mouth, silencing her.  He

creeps out.  And bravely reaches for the milk.

Willow slaps his pocket.  Then stretches his arm out

very, very slowly.  And gets the pail and zips back

under the stairs.

He soaks a rag with milk and feeds the baby.  Catching

his breath, he backs up and leans agains a woodplank

wall.

The plank gives way and Willow falls through the wall.

INT. TAVERN - DAY

Willow somersaults into a bedroom near an unmade bed.

Peeking up he sees two women getting dressed in a pan-

ic.  One is a plump-chested WENCH with a pretty face.

Very frightened, she looks out the window.  The other

woman, who wears a kerchief over her hair, packs thick

powder and make-up paint on her face.

It's Madmartigan!  Willow pops up like a jack-in-the-

box.

Willow strides toward Madmartigan, holding the baby

like a machine gun.

The brownies peek out.

The bedroom door explodes open.  In storms a big, mean,

half-drunk raging lug named LLUG.

Madmartigan wraps a muffler around his throat.  The

wench innocently curtsies.

Llug knocks his wife out of the way and glares susi-

ciously at Madmartigan, who bats his heavily made-up

eyelashes.  He speaks in a high feminine voice.

Llug sniffs at Madmartigan then fixes his gaze on

Madmartigan's flat chest.  He goes to squeeze him

there, but Madmartigan ducks out of the way and

snatches the baby from Willow.

Willow angrily jumps up and down, swiping at the baby.

With a swing of the hip, Madmartigan butts Willow aside

and maternally puts the baby against his chest.  Llug

houd-dogs him around the room, finally cornering him

and staaring lecherously into his eyes.

Madmartigan protects himself by holding the baby up in

front of his face.  Then he smells the baby.  He winces

and groans.

Madmartigan throws open the door and dashes out.  But

he doesn't get very far.  Several NOCKMAAR SOLDIERS

push him back in.  Then they grab madmartigan and Wil-

low, and Llug and his wife, and haul them all outside.

INT. TAVERN - HALLWAY - DAY

Madmartigan is slammed against a wall.  The Willow.

Then Llug and his wife.  In the b.g. Nockmaar troops

are rousting the tavern, taking babies away from

frightened mothers and inspecting them.

Heavy bootsteps thud toward them.  Willow looks out and

recognizes Sorsha, the black-helmeted knight from the

bridge.

Sorsha strides over to Madmartigan, her sword drawn.

Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha.

Madmartigan looks at Willow then back at Sorsha.

Sorsha stabs her sword into the floor like a spike.

She grabs for the baby.  Instinctively, Madmartigan el-

bows her away, whacking her hard and knocking her off-

balance against a nearby bench.  The soldiers tense up,

pointing their swords and spears.

Sorsha regains her balance.  She rips off her black

helmet.  Long wild red hair tumbles over her shoulders.

She is a young woman, and Madmartigan's eyes pop open.

He does his best to keep up his femal facade.

Sorsha comes right up to Madmartigan, squinting into

his eyes.  The she rips away his kerchief and muffler.

All hell breaks loose.  Llug charges for Madmartigan's

throat.  Madmartigna tucks the baby under his arm and

dashes right out the window.  Llug bulldozes Sorsha and

her Lieutenant, and the tavern patrons take advantage

of the chaos and stampede for the stairs.  Willow dives

out the window after Madmartigan.

She grabs her sword and waves it at her soldiers who

clatter toward the stairs, flinging people out of their

way.

EXT. ROADSIDE TAVERN - DAY

Madmartigna jumps off the upstairs balcony and lands in

the wagon below.  The two iron-workers look up with

concern.  Then they react with surprise as Madmartigan

rips away his disguise.

Up above, Willow charges along the balcony.  Madmarti-

gan juggles the baby and whips the reins.  The wagon

pulls away, iron-workers scrambling after it.  Willow

flings himself off the balcony.  The brownies tumble

out of his pocket.  They all land in the back of the

wagon as it takes off.

It has stopped raining.  In the stable under the

tavern, horses smash together and people fall in the

mud, and the Nockmaar soldiers get tangled up in the

traffic jam.

EXT. ROAD - CHASE - DAY

As Madmartigan lashes the horse, Willow crawls up to

hum and takes the baby.

In the back, the brownies boucne all over the place

amid wooden kegs and other objects.  When they finally

get their balane they look back in alarm.

Chasing them are two Nockmaar HORSEMEN plus a DEATH DOG

and a war chariot.

Willow ducks low and peeks out, protectively hugging

the baby.  The wagon bounces and flies along, but the

minions are quickly gaining.  Rool and Teemo spring

into action.  They struggle with all their might and

manage to kck small wooden kegs off the back of the

wagon.

The kegs bounce onto the road, and the minions lose

some ground trying to avoid them.  But soon the horse-

men flank the wagon.  One leaps off his galloping horse

and climbs on board.  The other draws an arrow and gets

ready to fire.

Madmartigan is about to be shot between the eyes.  He

quickly rolls into the back.  The archer firse! and

hits the other minion in the chest.  Madmartigna snaps

a wooden stake off the wagon side and smashes

the wounded minion off the wagon:  he crashes onto the

road.

Willow harnesses the papoose to his chest and grabs the

reins.  At the same time the minion archer leaps

aboard.  He and Madmartigan fight in the back.

Then there's a terrible howl right beside Willow.  The

Death Dog is leaping alongside the wagon, gnashing and

trying to board.  Willow yanks the reins and swerves

the wagon into the dog, which yelps furiously.  In the

back, Madmartigan and the minion are thrown by the

swerving jolt.

Up ahead Willow sees an exposed tree root in the road.

The wagon is headed straight for it!  The wheel hits

the root hard and Willow is dumped onto the wagon floor

and very nearly goes overboard.

In the back, Madmartigan and the minion keep fighting

as the wagon clatter along out of control.  The Death

Dog catches up again and this time spring aboard.

The dog snaps at the baby.  Willow scurries under the

wagon seat.  The dog stands up on its hind feet.

It gets ready to attack.  But WHACK! an overhanging

tree branch hits it and Willow looks up from under the

seat and sees the mangled dog twitching and dangling

from the tree, rapidly disappearing in the distance.

In the back, meanwhile, the minion draws a knife.  Mad-

martigan ducks out of his way, hanging onto a post at

the edge of the tailgate.  The minion comes after him.

Suddenly the wagon wheel wobbles and the rim flies off.

The jolt throws the minion off balance.  Madmartigan

kicks him.  The minion hurtles off the taligate but

holds on, dragged by the wagon.

Rool and Teemo grab hold of a rope securing a large

wooden keg.  Together they yank it.  Untying the keg and

sending it tumbling off the back.  The minion looks up

in horror as the heavy keg crushes him.

But the danger is far from over.  The wagon rocks along

with one wheel half-destroyed.  Willow whips the reins

and looks over his shoulder.  Steam-rolling toward them

is the war chariot!

The Nockmaar CHARIOT DRIVER stands up and stuffs the

reins in his mouth.  He rasise his arm and begins to

twirl a deadly weapon, a kind of bolo-blade, over his

head.

Madmartigan defends himself with a wooden wagon-post.

The chariot driver hurls the whistling blade:  CHONK!

It lodges in the post.  Madmartigan tugs.  So does the

chariot driver.  Back and forth, the wagons smashing up

each other.  At last Madmartigan lets go of the post

and the chariot driver is sent tumbling through the

airl, over a cliff to his death.

Willow tries to stop the horse.  But the wheel col-

lapses and he is thrown off into a ditch.  The brownies

dive overboard.  Madmartigan jumps off and delibrerately

sends the wagon up the road.  He scrambles down into

the ditch and lies flat beside Willow.

Suddenly, hoofbeats thunder and Sorsha and the rest of

her troops gallop past.  Lying flat, Madmartigna raises

his head and sees Sorsha's long flowing red hair.

As soon as the troops are gone, Willow jumps up.

The brownies are waving and gesturing madly, pointing

at a heap of boards and rubble that broke off the

wagon.  Willow and Madmartigan race over and start dig-

ging, flinging debris aside.

Willow sees the battered, lifeless papoose.  He grabs

it and rips it open.  Madmartigan kneels in the dirt

remorsefully.

Willow holds up the baby.  She giggles and smiles.

Madmartigan switches gears, boasting:

Willow bundles the baby and looks up the road.

They hurry off into the darkening woods.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

A campfire blazes.  Willow tends the baby while the

brownies point up at the stars.

Madmartigan dumps a big log on the fire, spraying the

brownies with sparks.

Madmartigan terrorizes them with a flaming stick.  Then

he squats beside Willow and the baby.

He shakes his head sceptically, stretches out and puts

his feet up on a log.

He laughs sarcastically.  Willow sets down the baby.  He

takes off Kiaya's necklace and fingers it sadly.

Willow stares at him angrily.

He jumps and starts pacing around the fire.  Rool and

Teemo dive for cover.

He kicks Madmartigan's boot and knocks his feet off the

log.

He picks up a rock and pitches it wildly at the fire,

sending up a shower of sparks.  Madmartigan eyes him

with concern.

Willow lets it all pour out.  He begins to cry.

Willow sits on the ground, exhausted.  Madmartigan

picks up the baby and sits with her in his lap.

Madmartigan gently rocks the baby and stares at the

fire.  Willow watches him curiously.

EXT. WOODS - MORNING

Willow wakes up and looks around.  The baby is gone.

He panics.  He scrambles a short distance through

some bushes.

They've been camped all night near the shore of a LAKE.

Willow finds Madmartigan and the baby bathing happily

in the water.

The baby squeals with delight as Madmartigan twirls her

around.  He lifts her yp and carries her to Willow on

the shore.  The brownies crawl thorugh the bushes.

Rool points out at the lake.

In the middle of the lake is an island with a single

tree.

Madmartigan lets out a sarcastic, sceptical laugh.

Teemo scratches his head and squints out at the island.

Madmartigan rubs his chin with sudden interest.

Madmartigan is suddenly pacing and thinking.

Madmartigan runs along the shore toward a small village

in the distance.

EXT. DESERTED FISHING VILLAGE - DAY

Half a dozen decrepit huts sit rotting on the edge of

the lake.  There are no inhabitants, just a lot of dis-

carded junk, including a few battered fishing boats.

But Madmartigan, keeping one eye on the gold tree out

on the island, is undaunted.  He rummages through the

debris, hauling out a fishing boat and shouldering it

toward the water.

Willow hoists the baby into the papoose and helps Mad-

martigan.

They turn around.  A golden-haired BOY is standing

waist-deep in th elake.  Madmartigan is instantly wary

of him.

But the boy looks innocent and harmless, and Willow ap-

proaches him.

Madmartigan scoffs at this nonsense, grunting and push-

ing the boat into the water.

Madmartigan climbs into the boat and grabs an oar,

eager to go.  Willow looks down at the brownies for

help.

Willow marches to the boat.  Calmly accepting their

choice, the golden-haired boy dives into the lake and

disappears.  Willow and the brownies board the boat,

and Madmartigan poles them away from the shore.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

They row across the placid lake toward the island.

EXT. ISLAND - DAY

They climb onto the rocky shore.  Flies buzz and swarm

around them, and creepy bugs crawl around their feet.

Broken skeletons litter the shore.  Handing the baby

back and forth, Willow and Madmartigan claw their way

up to the large tree.

Madmartigan greedily reaches up to touch a branch.

A littel animal scurries down the tree and hisses vi-

ciously at Madmartigan, chattering its teeth.

RAZIEL scampers over to Willow.  Her voice screeches

like a parrot.  She looks like an otter with a bush

tail.

She springs right onto Willow's chest.

Willow looks down at the browines questioninghly.

Still sceptical, Willow shows Raziel the baby's mark.

Raziel shoots up onto a branch and frantically flicks

her tail.

Madmartigan snaps a branch off the tree.  A flock of

birds suddenly screech and fly away.  His eyes bulge.

He strips away the bark, revealing a vein of gold.

The wind begins to blow and the sky darkens.  Raziel

zips over to Willow and whispers intensely.

The wind howls.  they hurry down to the boat.

Madmartigan is greedily breaking branches off the tree.

Waves lash at the boat as they jump aboard.  Madmarti-

gan loads up with branches.  As they push off, he

scrambles down the rocks.  Just in time he jumps into

the boat as the storm swirls it out into the frothy

lake.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

Willow clutches the baby as the raging storm pitches

the boat.

Madmartigan hangs onto his gold, but pices of it drop

and topple overboard.

Suddenly a hand appears on the stern.  The water boy

climbs in.

Madmartigna hesitates but then smashes the boy back

into the lake.  The boy surfaces like a dolphin.  His

shape begins to change, becoming fish-like, diving and

vanishing.

Then:  he attacks the boat!  He is now a ferocious

shark-like monster.  He chomps the boat and the gold

branches slide into the water.  Madmartigan bashes the

monster with the oar, then grabs an anchor.  The mon-

ster attacks again and Madmartigan jabs its gill with

the anchor.

The monster sinks into the lake.  They all sigh with

relief.  Madmartigan shrugs proudly.  Suddenly the an-

chor line unravels, tangling Madmartigan's legs in

fishing nets and yanking him overboard.

Underwater, Madmartigan swirls behind the monster.  He

pulls himself along the anchor line and finally cuts

himself free with his dagger.

He surfaces and madly swims toward the pitching boat.

Willow reaches out to him.  The monster surfaces and

circles the boat.  Then it attacks Madmartigan.

Willow digs out a magic acorn.  But he drops it!  He

fumbles in the leaking boat and finally finds it.  The

monster opens its jaws and goes to devour Madmartigan.

Willow throws the acorn.

The monster miraculously turns to stone.  Madmartigan

grabs the boat and watches in amazement as the monster

sinks.  Willow hauls him into the boat.

EXT. LAKESHORE - DAY

The storm begins to die down as they jump to shore, ex-

hausted.  Madmartigan wears nothing now but a ragged

loincloth.  He falls to his knees, coughing and spit-

ting.

He pulls himself up and follows Willow.  Suddenly they

all stop.  Sorsha and her men come out of the woods.

The brownies scurry into a hole.  Raziel makes a dash

for it but a soldier skewers her tail with his spear,

dangling her in front of Sorsha.

Sorsha gestures, and the soldier takes Raziel away.

The lieutenant wrestles the baby away from Willow.  He

gives her to Sorsha.

Willow panics.

He swaggers forward.  Sorsha turns and looks at him.

Sorsha looks up and down at his naked body.

Madmartigan looks down and adjusts his loincloth.

A pause as he smiles at her.

She raises her fist and zap:  Madmartigan is instantly

surrounded by spears and swords.

Madmartigan and Willow are roughly taken away.  Sorsha

and her troops mount horses and ride off.  Rool and

Teemo crawl lup from under a rock.

Rool walks off and Teemo grabs him, yanks him back.

Rool throws a punch, and the brownies somersault into

the bushes fighting each other.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Sorsha and her men now ride with a caravan of fifty

NOCKMAAR TROOPS.  Chained by their necks.  Willow and

Madmartigan walk behind a wagon.  Raziel sits trapped

in a cage on the back of the wagon.

Willow loses strength, falls and is dragged.  Madmarti-

gan picks him up and carries him on his shoulders.

Sorsha sees this.

Raziel peers sternly at Willow, who is eye-level with

her cage.

Madmartigan shakes his head at her.

Sorsha rides up from the rear of the caravan, carrying

the baby, who is crying.  Madmartigan, with Willow

still on his shoulders, straightens up and flirts with

her.

She flashes her eyes at him.

She nods toward her Lieutenant, who snarls viciously.

She turns away.  The baby squirms and cries.

Sorsha rides along.  She shifts the baby to her other

shoulder, and she instantly stops crying.  Sorsha

throws a look at Willow.  Madmartigan takes a long deep

breath.

Madmartigan pounds his chest and taunts her:

CRACK!  Sorsha whips her horse and gallops ahead.

Madmartigan snaps his finger and discourages himself.

Raziel leaps against the bars of her cage, chatters her

teeth and whispers to Willow.

Willow pulls a strand of his hair out in front of his

eyes and frowns at it.  Madmartigan, meanwhile, can't

take his eyes off Sorsha.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CAMPSITE - NIGHT

Fires and torches burn around pitched tents.  Soldiers

eat and drink, and meat is thrown out to Death Dogs.

From her cage, Raziel looks down at Willow, still

chained to the wagon next to Madmartigan.  Willow is

grinding a substance with a rock.

She twists her head through the bars.  Madmartigan

squints up at her.

Willow hears the baby crying in a distant tent.

Madmartigan clasps his forhead.

Madmartigan cynically gazes at the sky, gesturing wide-

ly.

Madmartigan rolls his eyes.  Willow jumps to his feet

and shows Raziel the substance.

Willow looks around.  Heavily armed Nockmaar minions

rip chunks of meat around a campfire.

Suddenly bootsteps clomp toward them.  Willow quickly

folds the powder inside some cloth and hides it in his

pocket.  The Lieutenant marches up and scrutinizes them

suspiciously.  He abruptly snatches Willow up, hacks

the chain and drags him off.

Madmartigan sturggles against his chains.  Angry and

worried:

INT. SORSHA'S TENT - NIGHT

The Lieutenant clamps irons on Willow's wrists, flings

him into a tent and exits.  Willow looks up and sees

Sorsha, still in her uniform, impatiently pacing wiht

the crying baby.

Sorsha dumps the baby in Willow's arms and then backs

away.

Willow politely shrugs.

Sorsha crosses her arms in a hugg and watches as Willow

changes the baby.  Soon the baby stops crying.  Re-

lieved yet still anxious, Sorsha paces to a mirror.

Willow rocks the baby gently, absently looking at the

fire.  Then his eyes focus on the fire.

Sorsha fiddles with her long red hair.  Willow creeps

toward the fire.

She turns and looks right at Willow.  He looks back.

She asks the question again by holding out strands of

her hair.

He suddenly strides over to Sorsha.

He hands Sorsha the baby, then goes to the fire where

there's a stone crock of milk.  He carefully takes his

cloth pouch out of his pocket and unfolds it.  At the

other side of the tent Sorsha awkwardly paces with the

baby.

During this, Willow ignites his powdery substance.  It

flares slightly then burns to an ash.  He gathers it

up, then returns to Sorsha with the milk.

Willow finds a strip of cloth, dips it in the milk, and

feeds Elora Danan in Sorsha's arms.  He looks up at

Sorsha and smiles.

Sorsha looks down at the baby.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CAMPSITE - MORNING

The caravan packs up to move on.  Soldiers drag Willow

to the wagon and lift him on board, chaining him beside

Raziel's cage.  Willow excitedly pats his pocker, and

whispers:

When the soldiers leave, he digs out the pouch and

proudly shows it to Raziel.

Chained behind the wagon, Madmartigan reaches forward

and pokes Willow with his finger?

Willow deliberately plays innocent.

Willow grins.  At last:

Suddenly Sorsha gallops by on horseback, holding the

baby.  She flings a wad of clothes at Madmartigan.

She rides off.  Madmartigan looks down at the clothes.

The looks at Willow.

EXT. SNOW MOUNTAIN - DAY

The Nockmaar caravan climbs into snow-covered moun-

tains.  In the wagon, Raziel is grilling Willow.  He

concentrates hard, cramming, memorizing, straining.

Raziel flips around in spasms of impatience.

Willow and Madmartigan stare at Raziel.

Sorsha rides up to the wagon.

She dismounts.  With care, keeping the baby bundled,

she hands the baby to Willow.  Madmartigan watches and

listens.

Sorsha turns and glares at Madmartigan.

She looks at him a moment, then abruptly mounts her

horse and rides ahead.

EXT. ROAD TOWARD SNOW CAMP - LATE AFTERNOON

The caravan rides toward a large Nockmaar camp.  Death

Dogs howl and fires burn ominously in the distance.

Willow and madmartigan watch as KING KAEL rides out to

meet the caravan.

Kael is huge, powerful and cruel, partbeast, part man,

and he carries a terrible sword at his side.  Sorsha

carefully shows him the baby.  He grabs it from her.

Kael viciously hits Sorsha, knocking her off her horse.

Madmartgian and Willow watch angrily.  Kail gallops to-

ward camp with the baby under his ar.  Sorsha shakes

away the pain and, humiliated, mounts her horse.

Raziel dashes around her cage.

Looking off into the camp, angry and resolute, Willow

takes out the ingredients for the stone.

EXT. SNOW CAMP - NIGHT

Now in a kind of portable cell, Madmartigan clutches

the jail bars and looks out at the camp.  Fires and

torches burn, and Nockmaar soldiers patrol.

Shivering cold, willow sits cross-legged in the jail,

melting snow into a bowl.  On a nearby lean-to, where

skins and shields are kept, Raziel hangs in her cage.

Somewhere the baby is crying.  In the distance Sorsha

goes inside one of the tenst. There's a muffled yel-

ling between Sorsha and Kael.  Then Keal storms out of

the tent and goes inside the tent next door.

Willow pours the ashes into the melted snow.

As Willow works, Madmartigan binds together scrap

sticks of wood, making a long pole.  He gingerly hooks

Raziel's cage with this, lifting it from the spike.

Madmartigan angles the pole and the cage slide toard

him.  He grabs it with both hands and rips it apart.

Raziel right away scurries down the cell bars, jumps

into the jail and bits Willow's hand.

They look out nervously at patrolling Nockmaar sol-

diers.  Willow sucks the back of his hand.

Willow drips his blood into the concoction then stirs

it with a twig.  It begins to glow from within.

Willow's eyes widen with anticipation.

EXT. SNOW CAMP - NIGHT - LATER

Fires have burned down.  Most of the camp is sleeping.

It is nearing dawn.  Madmartigan stares out at Sorsha's

tent, deep in thought.  Willow holds up the completed

PHILOSOPHER'S STONE, a red ball of pliable putty.

Willow presses the philopher's stone against the

chainlock.  He sheepishly looks over his hsoulder at

Raziel.

Willow goes to Raziel and concentrates with physical

and mental intensity.

It starts to work.  Raziel curls into a ball of fur.

The fur changes to feathers.  She begins to squawk

strangely.  She emerges as a raven-sized bird.

He sags with exhaustion and massages his blistered

hands.  Then: CLINK!  The lock falls open.  They all

look over, and Madmartigan picks it up off the ground.

Wilow clutches Madmartigan's arm.  He holds up the

stone.

With coldness in his eyes, madmartigan stares across

the camp at Sorsha's tent.

They sneak away.

Raziel flaps her wings and flies up into the dark sky.

EXT. THROUGH THE CAMP - DAWN

Willow and Madmartigan sneak behind tents, hiding from

the patrolling guards.  Very quietly they creep up to

Kael's tent.  Madmartigan knocks out a guard and steals

his knife.  They crawl dangerously over to Sorsha's

tent.

Madmartigan slits the back of the tent open and slips

inside.  Raziel flutters down and lands on Willow's

shoulder.

Willow shrugs apologetically.

INT. SORSHA'S TENT - DAWN

Crouched inside the large tent, Madmartigan calculates

his next move.  In the far corner, Sorsha lies asleep.

He steals the baby from a crib of straw.  Starts to

leave.  But stops.  Willow pokes his head inside.

Madmartigan stares over at Sorsha.  Lured by her beau-

ty, he slowly walks toward her bed.

Madmartigan looks down at her.  Morning rushlight il-

luminates her youthful face, and her long red hair is

spread across her pillow.  Out of her armor, in soft

nightclothes, she looks like a goddess.  Upon her

breast is a golden necklet, inlaid with ornate jewels.

Quietly:

He kisses her lips.  Her eyes open.

Holding the baby, Madmartigan does not move a muscle.

Sorsha holds a knife at his crotch.

Sorsha presses the knife.

Willow watches as Madmartigna carefully backs away from

Sorsha.

Sitting up, Sorsha waves her knife.  Madmartigan places

the baby in the straw crib.

Madmartigan walks back to Sorsha' bed.  Willow crawls

into the tent, behind Madmartigan's back.

Sorsha defensively kneels on her bed as Madmartigan

walks toward her.  He shows no fear of her knife, com-

pelled instead by honest passion.  For once, he isn't

conning anybody.  His feelings are genuine.

The knife trembles in Sorsha's hand.

He kneels onto her bed.  Her hand falls, her knife

falls to the floor, her chest heaves with fear and emo-

tion.

He stops.  He looks into her eyes.  Willow dashes out of

the tent with the baby.

Madmartigan takes Sorsha in his arms and kisses her.

Her trembling body surrenders to him.  Until:

They hear a SCREAM outside the tent.  It all happens

quickly.  Kael rips open the canvas and catches them in

their embrace.  In one hand he holds the baby.  In the

other hand:  Willow.

Sorsha sees the baby, sees the empty crib, and smashes

Madmartigan hard across the face.

Kael hurls Willow across the tent and tosses the baby

in the straw.  Growling horribly he lunges at Madmarti-

gan.  Madmartigan rolls away and sees Sorsha's sword

nearby.  Grabs it.  As Kael draws his sword, Madmarti-

gan artfully slices away the center pole, and the en-

tie tent collapses.

EXT. SNOW CAMP - MORNING

Bodies writhe under the fallen mass of canvas, and Ra-

ziel hovers and screeches above.  Then, a silver blade

slits through the tent, and out jumps Madmartigan

wielding Sorsha's sword.

Alarm!  Nockmaar soldiers and Death Dogs charge across

the snow.  Madmartigan battles them with incredible

skill, backing toward the mountain slope.

Wilow crawls out from under the corner of the tent,

clutchign the baby.  Madmartigan kills several so-

diers, littering the snow with bodies and weapons.

Willow reacts, impressed by Madmartigan's swordsman-

ship.  Madmartigan makes the mistake of acknowledging

it:  he bows, prod and cocky.

He slips on the ice and catches himself.  Nearby a

shield skids off along the snow.

Kael howls and thrashes inside the collapsed tent.

Then he gashes it open with his huge black sword.  He

sees Willow and the baby get on the large shield.

Madmartigan runs toward the shield.  Archers draw their

bows.  Madmartigan turns and sees Sorsha beside Kael.

As arrows rain down around him, Madmartigan leaps onto

the shield behind Wuillow.  Sorsha watches them as they

slide away down the mountain, Raziel flapping and

shrieking overhead.

Kael waves his sward and a crack squad of Nockmaar

HORSEMEN gallop down the mountain after the sled-

shield.

EXT. DOWN THE SNOWY MOUNTAIN - DAY

Willow hugs the baby while he sits between

Madmartigan's legs, and the shield zooms down the moun-

tain, zig-zagging through trees.  Madmartigan steers by

using Sorsha's sword as a ski pole.

The Nockmaar horsemen gallop after them.

The shield skips and flies over snowdrifts and bumps.

Raziel squawks in terror above them.  Just missing

trees and rocks, they pick up speek.  Their eyes sud-

denly widen.  Dead ahead is a huge wall of ice!

Willow shuts his eyes.  the shield speeds toward the

wall.  At the last moment Madmartigan steers them into

a small opening, little more than a crack.  Raziel,

nearly smashing into the wall herself, soars up into

the sky and loses them.

INT. ICE TUNNEL - DAY

They slide and sway down a long tube of ice, picking up

incredible speed until they loop 360 degrees upside-

down and around and go shooting out a hole at the other

end.

EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

They soar thorugh the air.  Madmartigan and Willow

shriek in terror.  But Elora Danan giggles:  she's hav-

ing fun!  But in the air the shield goes one way and

they go another, flipping and hanging onto one another

and landing on soft snow with a fffump.  Inertia keeps

them rolling.

Clumped together, they tumble down the mountain, gath-

ering snaw as they go, bouncing and rolling into a

snowball that gets bigger and bigger and bigger and

bigger and bigger!

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

The snowball steamrolls toward a small village at the

foot of the mountain.  CHLDREN look up and squeal with

delight while the adult VILLAGERS run for their lives.

It plows through the middle of the village, scattering

peole and animals left and right.  At last it smashes

against a stone house and cracks open like an egg.

Raziel flies down and lands on top of the snowball,

flapping her wings frantically.  madmartigan crawls out

as the villagers rush up.  They stand back in amaze-

ment:  the baby starts crying.

Madmartigan drags Willow and the baby out of the snow.

Willow's body is limp, he's unconscious.  Then a VIL-

LAGER points up at the mountain.

In the distance Kael and his squad of about 15 horsemen

charge toward the village.  The villagers flee into

their huts and houses.  Madmartigan scoops up Willow

and the baby.  Some villagers usher them around a

corner and into a house just as Kael's army invades the

town.

INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAY

Madmartigan is bustled underground thorugh a cellar

into a hidden storage room and a disguised door shuts

behind him.  MEN, WOMEN and CHILDREN huddle here in

silence, like refugees or criminals.  Madmartigan hands

the crying baby to a WOMAN then lays Willow on the

floor.  Suddenly a huge hand clamps his shoulder:  his

old friend and rival Airk Thaughbaer.

Madmartigan knocks Airk's hand away.

Among the refugees is a handful of war-battered WARRI-

ORS.  One of them, an OFFICER looks out through the

ceiling beams.

They hear hoofbeats outside.  Airk gives Madmartigan a

flask of whiskey.  He squirts whiskey into Willow's

mouth and Willow coughs and shudders awake.

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

Raziel flies onto a rooftop and looks down.  Nockmaar

soldiers flood the village, dismounting, kicking down

doors, searching houses.  Then Raziel sees Kael riding

alongside Sorsha.

In her armor, at a distance, Sorsha looks fierce.  But

CLOSER her eyes show confusion, hesitation.  Kael

watches her closely as he waves his sword at the vil-

lage.

He shakes her roughly.  She dismounts.  Raziel watches

as Sorsha and two other soldiers enter the house where

Madmartigan and Willow are hiding.

INT. HOUSE CELLAR - DAY

Willow holds the baby tight.  Madmartigan, Airk and the

Officer watch through the cracks.  Boots pound above,

shaking dust down on them.  A door opens.

Nobody breathes.  Willow buries the baby in his chest.

Madmartigan peeks through the door.  Sorsha, alone,

comes down into the cellar.  They see her.  Searching.

Airk's men reach for their swords, begin to draw.

Whisper:

Madmartigam shakes his head.

Airk looks at Madmartigan curiously.  Madmartigan

watches Sorsha. She is right there, inches away.

Inaudibly, be says her name.  At last she goes back

upstairs.

INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAY

Sorsha comes up and begins to leave with the other two

soldiers.

INT. CELLAR

In Willow's arms, the baby lets out a cry.

INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS

Sorsha and the soldiers stop and draw swords.  The

baby's cry is suddenly drowned out by a loud SDRRECH.

Raziel flaps in through a window and flies madly around

the house, cawing and shrieking insanely.  Sorsha and

the soldiers sheathe their swords and leave.

INT. CELLAR

Everyone sighs with relief.

EXT. VILLAGE - DAY

In the distance the Nockmaar army is setting houses ab-

laze and Kael is terrorizing the fleeing people with

his sword.  Sorsha mounts her horse.  Her attention is

momemtarily caught by a MAN across the street who, from

the back, looks like Madmartigan.  She gasps.  The man

turns around.  She sags with disappointment, spurs her

horse, and rides off.

The deadly squad of Nockmaar horsemen gallops out of

the village.

INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - DAY

Madmartigan and Willow come upstairs with Airk and his

men.

Living in the house is a scrawny, shifty-eyed man named

CUTH.  He watches and listens.

Willow steps forward, both protective and proud.

They all know of her.  They all sigh with respeck and

awe, and they bow.

Raziel screeches from a ceiling beam.

Willow looks up at Raziel hopefully.

Airk looks up at Raziel.  Then down at Willow.  He

clasps Madmartigan's arm.

Airk impatiently waves the bird away and shoves Madmar-

tigan in the chest.

Airk angrily stabs his finger at the floor.

Airk crosses his arms and turns his back, looking out

at the burning houses and the suffering families.

Airk glares at him furiously.  Then he kicks open the

door and storms out into the street.  Madmartigan and

Willow hurry after him.

EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE - VILLAGE OUTSKIRTS - DAY

Airk and his men, plus some villagers, watch as Madmar-

tigan mounts a large horse.  Then some villagers help

Willow wiggle up onto a small pony.  They sling the

baby over Willow's back and stuff saddlebags with pro-

visions

Sadly and cynically, Airk laughs.

They shake hands ruggedly.  Madmartigan nods at Willow

and they head off.  Airk watches them go, clearly am-

bivalent about staying behind.  They ride up the snowy

slope, Raziel circling above.

WE SEE Cuth.  He scratches his filthy beard.  He sneaks

off through the village, in the direction of the Nock-

maar army.

EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAY

Snow circles around them as they climb.  Then, oddly,

the mountain becomes warmer, and the snow melts away.

They reach a slope of dark vitreous lava.

Far away, at the top of the mountain, looms the ominous

Catsle of Nockmaar.  The black lava flows from it

like a deadly shadow.

EXT. CAVE OF THE EBORSISK - DAY

Their horses rear up as they approach the mouth of the

cave.  Raziel waits for them, circling and cawing.

They dismount and lead the horses.  But the horses pan-

ic, their frightened neighing voices echoing deep in

the gloomy cave, and they break away and run off.

Willow swallows hard.  He and Madmartigan follow Raziel

inside.

INT. CAVE OF THE EBORSISK - DAY

Daylight is soon replaced by the orange glow of molten

lava.

Willow wears the papoose on his back.  Madmartigan

looks in at the baby's face.

Willow and Madmartigan laugh, which breaks the tension.

Then a geiser of steam hisses near them and a bat

screeches somewhere and the tension's back.  They keep

going.

INT. DEEPER IN THE CAVE

Hot liquid drips from the ceiling.  Hissing steam bub-

bles from the floor.  they go single-file along a ledge

over a foaming lava pit.  Raziel is squawking way ahead

in the distance.

Madmartigan lunges and grabs Willow just as he is about

to fall into the lava pit.  He hauls him to safety.

They gasp with relief. Then they head deeper into the

cave.  They stop.  They hear something.  Something

strange.

Then, something moves on the wall.

The cave walls come to life.  Down them crawl ugly ROCK

PUFFERS, pillow-sized wall crabs that screech horribly

like bats.  Madmartigan fights them off with his sword.

The Rock Puffers bloat themselves up, tripling their

size.  Madmartigan stabs one and it hisses away like an

untied balloon.

Suddenly, distant hoofbeats thunder and echo.  Madmar-

tigan flashes his sword and turns around, ready to de-

fend Willow and the baby against the army.

Willow listens as the hoofbeats get louder and louder.

At last he turns and runs deeper into the cave.  Mad-

martigan waits.

The Nockmaar soldiers, now increased to eighty, come

charging down the cave.  Kael rides in the lead along-

side the turncoat Cuth.  As they gallop along the

ledge, Cuth makes the mistake of crowding Kael, who an-

grily elbos him, horse and all, into the boiling pit.

The army tramples over the Rock Puffers, which explode

underfoot.  Madmartigan braces himself as they stampede

toward him.  But suddenly the horseman all screech

thir horses to a halt.  The horses rear and back away.

Madmartigan stands there, wondering.  Then suddenly a

shadow looms behind him.  He turns.

The EBORSISK roars and the cave shakes and thunders.

It's an enormous two-headed monster that doesn't like

visitors.

He looks around frantically.  Willow is nowhere to be

seen.  Then the baby cries out.  Madmartigan sees them,

cowering behind a rock.  He runs toward them.  The

Eborsisk exhales flames over his head.

Soldiers obey Kael and go after Madmartigan.  He fights

them, hacking down a few, while a few others are in-

cinerated by the Eborsisk.  Sorsha's horse rears as she

watches Madmartigan battle for his life.  Archers shoot

arrows, which pierce the Eborsisk and make it even an-

grier.

Willow digs one of his magic acorns out of his pocket.

A head of the Eborsisk gnashes at Madmartigan.  Madmar-

tigan looks to Willow for help.

Willow winds up and throws with all his might.  The

Eborsisk blasts a flame, which startles Willow, wreck-

ing his aim.  Madmartigan's eyes pop open and he ducks

as the acorn whistles by his ear.  The acorn bounces

off a rock and flies back, trickles along the ground

and hits a Nockmaar soldier, who is already dead.  The

soldier's body turns to stone.

One of the Eborsisk's heads lunges toward the baby.

Raziel dives like a rocket and attacks the monster's

eye as Willow whisks the baby away.

Then Madmartigan leaps up on the Eborsisk.  He climbs

up over its flaming head and drives his sword down

through its skull.  The Eborsisk howls horribly and its

wounded head falls.  Madmartigan topples down its back

and leaps onto a horse, knocking its rider off and, all

in one swashbuckling move, scooping Willow and the baby

up onto the back of the horse and galloping away.

But as his horsement charge forward, the Eborsisk falls

to its knees, half-dead.  The surviving head blasts the

soldiers with fire.  They rear back on their horses and

continue to battle the monster with arrows and spears.

EXT. CAVE - TIR ASLEEN - DAY

They ride out of the mouth of the dark cave into a lush

valley of flowers.  In the distance stands the beau-

tiful CASTLE OF TIR ASLEEN.  Raziel zooms up out of the

cave an flies above them as they gallop fullspeed to-

ward it.  She soars higher and higher and flies right

over the castle wall.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN CASTLE - DAY

The door of the castle is half open.  Madmartigan and

Willow gallop inside.

INT. TIR ASLEEN - DAY

Raziel flies down to meet them as they ride into the

castle courtyard.  A haunting wind drones amont TWELVE

PILLARS which look like stone from a distance.

They approach the twelve pillars.

Suddenly they hear hoofbeats and a warcry.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAY

Kael and his army charge out of the cave and trample

across the valley of flowers.

INT. TIR ASLEEN

Madmartigan rushes to the heavy door and strains to

shut it.

Willow stares at the twelve knights.

The castle door is rusted and old.  madmartigan heaves

against it.  Outside he can see the army storming to-

ward him.

Willow digs out his philosopher's stone.  He squints

and strains, concentrating his energy.

He continues to chant and to concentrate.  One of the

knights comes to life.

Madmartigan heaves the door shut just as the army

charges up, and he locks it with a huge bolt.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAY

The Nockmaar horsemen rear back form the locked door.

He sends his men in all directions.  They leap off

their horses and hack down trees from the nearby woods.

INT. TIR ASLEEN

Willow brings the knights to life, one by one.

Each knight shakes himself into action.  Madmartigan

follows them in an armory.

Willow's on a roll.  He rubs his hands together.

He drops to his knees and stretches his philosopher's

stone apart like an accordian.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN - ARMORY

Madmartigan and the knights grab weapons and armor.

Two knights wheel a catapult out ot the battlements.

Madmartigan wees, displayed specially on a rack, a com-

plete set of armor of shining silver.  He reaches out

to touch it.

INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARD

The knights light a fire and boil vats of oil.  Willow

struggles to transform Raziel, trying to remember all

he has learned.

Raziel begins to change.  From a bird, she expands,

stretches, and turns into a GOAT.

Raziel tilts her goat head.

Suddenly flaming arrows rain down over the castle wall.

Willow scoops up the baby and he and Raziel run for cover.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

From their horses Kael and Sorsha watch as the soldiers

climb the wall.  They suddenly hear a hacking noise

above and several Nockmaar men tumble down the ladders.

Sorsha looks up.

High on the wall stands Madmartigan, magnificently

dressed in the glimmering armor of the King!

Kael roars and points his deadly sword up at Madmarti-

gan.  Then several soldiers attack the castle door with

a huge battering ram and smash it open.

Kael and Sorsha gallop into the castle with otehr Nock-

maar horsemen, while Madmartigan continues to battle

attackers on the castle wall.

INT. TIR ASLEEN

Willow looks up as the horsemen charge into the court-

yeard.  He makes a run for the hallway.  SIX HORSEMEN

chase after him, jumping off their horses and drawing

their swords.

Sorsha dismounts, draws a sword, and strides up the

stairs toward teh top of the wall.

INT. ARMORY

Willow runs into the armory and sets the baby down in a

corner.  The six horsement run in and corner him.  He

grabs an enormous broadsword.  Swings it like a base-

ball bat.  The momentum of the heavy sword hurls Willow

across the room.  The blade pierces a Nockmaar man.

Willow grunts and yanks the sword out.  The remaining

soldiers come after him.  Willow swings and flashes the

sword as they close in on him.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

In the courtyard, Raziel the goat butts a few soldiers

as the battle rages.

UP ON THE WALL

Madmartigan stabs a minion and sends him hurtlin down

the wall.  Then he turns around.  Five more enemy

swordsmen slash at him.  Madmartigan is amazing:  spin-

nig, lunging, ducking, he takes out one, two, three,

four of them with ease.  But not the fifth.

It's the Nockmaar Lieutenant.  He and Madmartigan

swordfight.  The Lieutenant hacks the sword out of

Madmartigan's hand: it clatters down into the court-

yeard.

Madmartigan throws up his arm.  The Lieutenant's sword

clangs against his wrist armor, knocking Madmartigan

onto his back.  With two hands the Lieutenant lifts his

sword high and goes to kill Madmartigan.  madmartigan

shuts his eyes.  But nothing happens.

Madmartigan opens his eyes.  the Lieutenant stands

there, frozen, staring at him.  Then falls forward.

Rolls over Madmartigan.  And plummets off teh wall.  In

his place stands Sorsha, holding a bloodied sword.

He props himself up on his elbows and smiles.

She reaches down and pulls Madmartigan to his feet.

They look into each other's eyes.  They go to embrace.

Out of nowhere a Nockmaar minion attacks them, his

sword flashing over his head. Sorhsa hardly moves.

She simply dusts him off the wall with her sword.  She

turns back to Madmartigan.

Their armor clanks as they throw their arms around each

other and kiss, high up on the castle wall.

INT. TIR ASLEEN - COURTYARD

Kael looks up from his horse.

He sees Sorsha and Madmartigan coming down the wall,

fighting Nockmaar troops.  Kael holds up his great

hand.  In it he holds the baby.

Kael waves his men after Sorsha and Madmartigan.

He laughs viciously then gallops toward the castle

door.  As he reaches it he abruptly stops.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

Two hundred HORSEMEN are charging straight toward Kael.

Led by Airk Thaughbaer!

CLOSER, riding in Airk's saddlebags, with their tiny

daggers flashing, are the long-lost brownies, Teemo and

Rool!

INT. TIR ASLEEN

Kael stuffs the baby deep inside his tunic.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

Kael and his men gallop across the valley of flowers

and hack their way through Airk's army.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

Kael and his men gallop across the valley of flowers

and hack their way through Airk's army.

INT. TIR ASLEEN

Madmartigan and Sorsha mount horses.  Willow staggers

out of the armory, wounded and bleeding.

Madmartigan scoops him up.  With seven surviving

knights, they ride out.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN

Many of Kael's men fall in battle.  But Kael and a

dozen horsemen plow through and escape into the cave.

Madmartigan rides up to Airk Thaughbaer and their

horses powerfully dance around each other.

Then they drop the bravado and clasp hands.

They charge into the cave.  The clamor of their

hoofbeats echoes and then fades to silence.  The valley

is littered with fallen soldiers.

Then, Raziel trots out of the castle.  She clip-clops

across the valley and follows the others to the cave.

EXT. VOLCANIC MOUNTAINSIDE - DAY

The Nockmaar horsemen race out of the cave and gallop

up the obsidian mountain toward the dark castle.

The army of Tir Asleen thunders out of the cave in pur-

suit.

Arrows fire back and forth.  The Tir Asleen army stays

right on the enemy's tail.  Willow hangs on to Madmar-

tigan for dear life.

Airk and Madmartigan ride side by side, perfect team-

work, and cut a few Nockmaar ment down.

Then Madmartigan turns and sees Sorsha ride up past

everybody.  What a rider she is!  She surprises a cou-

ple of Nockmaar soldiers, swordfighting as she rides,

killing them both.  But she can't catche Kael.  He rides

ahead of everyone else, whipping his horse at an in-

credible speed toward the castle.

The chase continues up the mountain.  The Tir Asleen

army keeps firing arrows at the enemy, or cutting them

down with their swords, until only two Nockmaar men

ride behind Kael.  At last Kael reaches the castle

drawbridge and leaps onto it as it begins to rise.  His

two remaining horsemen leap after him but fall short

and tumble into the dry craggy moat.

The drawbridge shuts with a loud echoing KLUNGG!  Mad-

martigan and Arik screech to a halt on the brink of the

moat.  They look up.  The castle loom, huge, dark,

powerful, evil.

Sorsha rides up to his side.

The Tir Asleen warriors, dwarfed by the huge black

wall, look at one another with doubt and worry.

The army dismounts and begins to unpack supplies.  It

is late in the day and shadows lengthen toward evening.

INT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - LATE AFTERNOON

Kael carries the baby through the castle and climbs up

the gloomy narrowing stairs of the QUEEN'S TOWER.  He

comes to a large door and hesitates a moment, showing

fear.  Then creaks the door open.

INT. QUEEN'T TOWER

BAVMORDA looks up.  Kael cowers, afraid of her evil

power.

Carved in the floor is a MAGICIAN's CIRCLE, and in the

very middle of this is a sacrificial altar made of

shining copper.  Bavmorda stands over the altar, wear-

ing black robes.  Behind her stand two decrepit DRUIDS.

Kael bows.

The baby squirms and cries.  Seething with hate, Bav-

morda reaches out her arms, then shrinks back.

She hears noise outside the castle.

Bavmorda closes her eyes, holds out her hands and feels

the vibrations and energy around her.  Psychically:

Bavmorda opens her eyes furiously.  to her druids:

The druids take the baby from Kael.  Bavmorda storms

out the door.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASLTE - DUSK

The Tir Asleen rebels pitch tents and build fires.

Then they feel a terrible presence and look up at the

castle wall.  Amid torches and hideous minions, Bavmor-

da leers down at them and laughs.

Sorsha looks up, and her mother seems to laugh right at

her.  Madmartigan steps forward.  Seeing him in the ar-

mor of the King, Bavmorda stops laughing, taken aback.

Raziel suddenly butts Willow into a tent.

INT. TENT

Willlow tumbles into the tent and Raziel follows him.

Willow takes out his philosopher's stone and begins to

chant.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE

Madmartigan faces the queen.

Bavmorda stabs her finger down at him.

She waves her hand, casting a horrible spell over the

army.  Madmartigan's body begins to change its shape.

His armor breaks apart.  He grows hideous.

The rebel soldiers panic and run.  Slowly, horribly,

they all expand and contort, ripping out of their armor

and clothers, casting down their weapons and shields.

Bavmorda points at Sorsha, and Sorsha, too, begins to

change.  The mountainside becomes a sea of writhing

flesh.  Every one of the Tir Asleen army is transformed

into a pig.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DUSK Bavmorda throws open the

door.  Her druids are binding the baby in a leather

thong.

A druid lights on of THIRTEEN ENORMOUS CANDLES.  Bav-

morda glares up at the roof.  In the middle of it is a

large circular hole showing the starlit sky.

Lightning flashes faintly and thunder rumbles in the

distance.  Bavmorda smiles with satisfaction.

A druid places teh baby on the altar.  The other druid

hits a loud gong, once.  Bavmorda enters the Magician's

Circle.  Her face contorts as she recites:

Magically she produces a razor-sharp knife.  Lightning

flashes again, getting closer.

INT. TENT - NIGHT

Willow is crouched on his knees, chanting with her eyes

closed.

Willow looks up.  He hears the grunting outside.  With

great trepidation, he crawls to the tent door.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - OUTSIDE TENT - NIGHT

Willow shudders in horror at the grotesque sight.  Amid

horses and tents and weapons, hundreds of pigs wander

about.  Willow stands and walks through them.  He looks

down at one point and sees Rool and Teemo:  two tiny

baby pigs.  Then he turns and runs back into the tent.

INT. TENT - NIGHT

Willow collapses to his knees beside Raziel.

Raziel sternly stamps the ground with her hoof.

Willow grabs a sword and draws a hexagram around Ra-

ziel.  He steps outside of it, holds up his

philosopher's stone and begins his magic.

Raziel begins to change.  Willow wrestles with his own

powers of concentration and will, now and then losing

strength.

He chants and strains.  Raziel momentarily changes into

a partly-formed grotesque creature.  Then into a deer.

Then she becomes human.  At last she becomes herself, a

once-beautiful and now elderly woman.  Willow covers

her unclothed body with a simple smock.

She looks down at her old hands.  Then her eyes focus

with purpose.

Willow opens the tent.  Some pigs shuttle in, and Ra-

ziel begins to change them back into warriors.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE -NIGHT

Stationed high on the castle wall, three Nockmaar MIN-

IONS laugh and drink.  Then they hear the terrible

SCREAM of the baby.  They look up at the Queen's Tower.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHT

A druid hits the ceremonial gong, twice.  The baby

shrieks.  Standing over her, Bavmorda crushes a piece

of glass with her bare hands and drops the fragments

into a Witch's Bottle.

With a pair of razor-sharp shears she clips the baby's

tiny fingernails and sprinkles them into the Witch's

Bottle.  The bottle glows and sparks, and teh heavens

asnwer with distant thunder.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - NIGHT

In the dark Tir Asleen camp some figures crouch low and

hurry from tent to tent.  CLOSER, the faces of rebel

warriors, watching the castle wall.  Fear.

INT. TENT - NIGHT

Willow, Raziel, Madmartigan, Sorsha, Airk Thaughbaer

and a dozen rebel warriors argue back and forth.

The other warriors agree.

Raziel shakes her head.

The warriors grumble and protest.  In a corner, Rool

and Teemo poke their heads in under the canvas.  Curi-

ously they look at Willow, who sits in silence and deep

though, scratching the ground with his fingernail.

The warriors rumble.

Willow jumps to his feet.  They all turn to him.

The all gather around Willow to listen.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHT

Thunder rumbles.  Bavmorda looks up.  Her face is gra-

dually becoming more grotesque as the ritual proceeds.

A druid hits the gong three times.  Now three candles

are lit.  The baby screams on the altar.

With a demonic laugh, Bavmorda digs her hands into a

deep vat of blood then raises them over her head.  The

blood runs down her arms into the folds of her black

cloak.

INT. TENT - NIGHT

They all look at Willow.

Willow looks hopefully at Madmartigan.

Madmartigan turns away and scratches his beard.

Frustrated and torn, Madmartigan brushes Airk away.

The men rally with Airk.  Mdmartigan goes over to Sor-

sha.

The gong rings four time.  Raziel turns to Airk

and his men.

The men shake their heads.

Madmartigan, still torn by indecision, raises his arm

and silences the protest.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - NIGHT

Light pulsates in the Queen's Tower.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - NIGHT

The druids cower behind Bavmorda, whose face has taken

on the hideous features of a hellish beast.  The baby

has been streaked with ritual paint.

Her voice growls a sickening chant, and light shoots

out of her claw-liek fingers, enveloping the baby.  The

baby levitates above the altar in a cocoon of light.

EXT. NOCKMAAR CASTLE - DAWN

The sun rises over the volcanic mountain.  The gong

strikes twelve times.  PAN ACROSS the slope outside the

castle.  The Tir Asleen army is gone.  Littered across

the ground are flattened tents, borken wagons an dis-

carded shields.  The wind howls, taking bits of debris

with it.

Alone on the deserted mounatinside stand Willow and Rz-

ziel.

Nockmaar soldiers peer down and laugh.  Willow and Ra-

ziel trek closer to the castle wall.  Willow cups his

mouth.

The Nockmaar soldiers roar with laughter.

The great drawbridge falls across the moat.  Willow

clutches a spear and trembles nervously.

Hoofbeats.  EIGHT HORSEMEN ride out of the castle with

swords high.  Willow lifts his spear with two hands.

Turns.  And smashes the spear on the ground, striking a

loud war drum!

Suddenly Madmartigan leaps out of the ground on horse-

back!

And the entire mountainside comes to life.  Tents and

shields fly away and out of pits and trenches the Tir

Asleen army charges with one loud warcry!

The eight Nockmaar horsemen are quickly cut down.  The

rebels storm across the drawbridge into the castle.

Airk Thaughbaer scoops Willow up on his horse, and Sor-

sha scoops Raziel up on hers.

INT. NOCKMAAR COURTYARD - CONTINUOUS

Madmartigan leads the assault, cutting down Nockmaar

minions as they run out to defend the fortress.  Sorsha

slides off her horse with Raziel.  Airk sets Willow

down.  Sorsha leads Willow and Raziel into a dark hall-

way.

Rebel warriors storm into the courtyard.  Madmartigan

circles behind Airk, their horses dancing handsomely.

In unison, their swords flash and they charge across

the courtyard chopping down the enemy.

ENT CASTLE HALLWAY - DAY

Sorsha hurries Willow and Raziel down a dark hallway.

They come to a corner.

She grabs him by the collar and yanks him back.  A huge

DEATH DOG leaps out wiht a gnashing ROAR and Sorsha

kills it with her sword.  Willow sags with relief and

the women grab his hands and haul him further down the

tunnel.

INT. TOWER STAIRWAY - DAY

They come to the gloomy stairs that corkscrew up into

the Queen's Tower.  Willow climbs nervously behind Ra-

ziel and Sorsha.  At the top in THE DOOR.  Light throbs

behind it.

Suddenly they hear a loud SHRIEK and the door shakes

and bangs.  Willow fals to his knees, frozen with

fear.

Willow and Raziel stay back on the stairs.  Sorsha

climbs to the door.  Courageously, she opens it.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY

Bavmorda's monstrous face FILLS THE SCREEN.

Sorsha recoils in horror.  Bavmorda looks barely human:

she has transformed into a grotesque witch.  She waves

her gnarled hand and her druids attack Sorsha.  Sorsha

kills them.  The baby lies under a deathlike spell on

the copper altar.

Bavmorda's voice is a demonic growl!

Lightning explodes overhead.  Sorsha lunges for the

baby.  But Bavmorda stops her with a powerful energy

force.

Pulsating light lifts Sorsha, levitates her across the

room, and drives her toward a wall of spikes.  Just as

she is about to be implaes, another force stops her.

Bavmorda can sense the source of it:

The door flies open.  The twelve burning candles all

blow out.  There stands Raziel.  Sorsha falls to the

floor, unconscious.  Raziel raises her arms magnifi-

cently.  The sorceresses face each other.

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY

Battle rages.  Madmartigan and Airk lead the assault,

and the Tir Asleen rebels push back the Nockmaar min-

ions.  Down low, where weapons adn bodies fall and

horses clop and stamp, the brownies scurry along in

terror, arms crossed over their heads, looking for

shelter.

Like mice, they dart up some stairs.  Then a huge boot

nearly crushes them.  The dive away and look up.

Towering high above them, Kael lets out a loud warcry.

And brandishes two weapons, a huge sword and a huge

axe.

Madmartigan and Airk turn and see Kael.  They look at

each other.  Like samurai warriors they stand ready.

Kael ralles his weapons and charges toward them.

INT. TOWER STAIRWAY - DAY

Willow creeps toward the door.  It suddenly throbs and

flashes.  He jumps back.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY

Bavmorda and Raziel oppose each otehr, circling the al-

tar.  The air between them crackles and sparks with the

concentration of energy between them.

She points at the sky.  As if oberying her, lightning

flashes and thunder cracks.

Raziel waves her arms and light suddenly swirls around

the room.  Bavmorda counters, and chairs come to life,

turning into beasts.  Objects fly about.  The tower be-

comes a storm of chaos and witchcraft.

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY

Kael swings his axe and sword at Airk and Madmartigan.

He roars at his army, and six Nockmaar swordsmen hurry

over to fight with him.  Madmartigan and Airk split up.

Madmartigan battles the six swordsmen.  Airk battles

Kael, who backs Airk up stairs on the castle wall.

Madmartigan fights in the courtyard.  He hears a yell

and looks up.  Kael strikes Airk down.

Airk falls down the stairs.  Madmartigan finishes off

the swordsmen, then runs to him, grabs his bleeding

body.

An incredible smile lights up Airk's face as he dies.

Madmartigan stands.  Picks up his sword.  And goes up

the stairs after Kael.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY

The sorceress continue their battle.  They change

each other into various beasts.  They fight, physically

and magically.

In the midst of chaos, the door opens.  Willow pokes in

his head, reacting in fear.  Then sneaks around the

wall of the room and makes a dash for the baby.

Bavmorda hurls a final spell at Raziel, crippling her,

throwing her into a corner.  Bavmorda laughs and goes

to the altar.  The baby is gone.

Willow races toward the door with the baby.  The door

suddenly slams shut.  Bavmorda's voice roars out:

Willow stops.  He turns around.  Bavmorda towers over

him, grotesque, monstrous, poised to destroy Willow

with her magic.

Bavmorda laughs.  Willopw slowly walks toward her.  he

digs into his pocket.  Takes out the last magic acorn.

Willow throws the acorn at Bavmorda.  Her hand shoots

out and catches it.  the acron begins to turn her to

stone, petrifying her hand, her wrist, her arm.  Willow

backs away, feeling successful.  But with intense con-

centration of her evil will, Bavmorda fights off the

acron's spell.  It reverses:  her arm, wrist and hand

turn back to flesh.  She crushes the acorn in her

fingers and lets the dust fall to the floor.

Willow stands there helplessly.  Thunder cracks and

lightning flashes through the open ceiling above the

altar.

INT. CASTLE COURTYARD - DAY

The Tir Asleen rebels, outnumbering and overpowering

the Nockmaar army, fight toward ultimate victory.

Madmartigan battles Kael on the wall outside the

Queen's Tower.  Up and up they go.  A spectacular

swordfight.  Until finally, Madmartigan stabs Kael

through the heart.  kael screeches and falls through

the air into the moat.

Madmartigna hurries toward the top of the tower.

INT. QUEEN'S TOWER - DAY

Bavmorda looks up at the sky then down at Willow.

Willow straightens up, boldly, courageously.

He gropes for a word.  Bavmorda laughs at him.

Bavmorda instantly stops laughing.  her eyes flash.

Willow suddenly starts chanting, loudly and desperate-

ly.  Raziel opens her eyes and watches.  The chenting

confuses Bavmorda.  Then, Willow cleverly whips the

baby under his legs and behind his back and suddenly

she's gone!

Bavmorda flies into a rage.  She lunges across the

copper altar.  Thunder and lightning!

A bright fork of lightning, conjured by her own evil,

shoots in through the ceiling and strikes her.  She

howls in pain.  Her body contorts then bursts into

flame and burns into a shriveling pillar of ash.

Madmartigan breaks open the door and stomrs in.  He

scoops up Sorsha, reviving her with a kiss.

And as if Bavmorda's death has ended evil and oppres-

sion, Raziel stands up with renewed strength.

Willow bends down under a nearby chair and picks up the

sleeping baby.

Elora Danan's eyes open.  And sunlight floods into the

tower.

EXT. TIR ASLEEN - DAY

Flags fly hihg above the wondrous caslte.  The valley

is lush with flowers, and the kingdom is once abain

alive with happy activity.

At the door of the castle, Willow stnds beside a cute

little white pony.  The court of Tir Asleen has gath-

ered to see him off.  Madmartigan, in robes and armor

worthy of a king, stands proudly beside his queen, Sor-

sha, who holds the baby princess, Elora Danan.

A trumpet blares.  Raziel comes forward from inside the

castle, dressed in druid robes, carrying a sacred BOOK.

Willow accepts the book.  Everyone applauds.  Willow

smiles gratefully and humbly.  He glances down and no-

tices Rool and Teemo, who have been civilized to a de-

gree with page boy uniforms, fuzzy haircuts, and nifty

little swords.

Madmartigan and Sorsha come forward, with Elora Danan.

Madmartigan smiles with thanks.

Willow has one last look at the baby.  She smiles and

giggles at him.  He happily gives her a kiss.

Suddenly Willow flies up in the air.  Madmartigan lifts

him onto the pony's back.  Willow and Madmartigan shake

hands warmly.  And Willow rides across the valley of

flowers, everybody waving goodbye to him.

EXT. NELWYN VILLAGE - DAY

Musicians stike up a welcoming march.  Willow rides

thorugh his village on his little pony, proudly carry-

ing the sacred book.  The Nelwyn people swarm around

him, wild with excitement and celebration.  Meegosh

runs up, deliriously happy.

The High Aldwin comes forward, beaming with pride, and

honors Willow with a nod of approval.  Willow presents

him with the book.  Old Burglekutt peers out.  His

mouth drops open and he shrinks away from the crowd.

Willow stands up in his stirrups.  He sees Kiaya fight-

ing her way through the crowd to reach him.

He jumps off his pony and runs to her.  They collide,

kiss and embrace.  Then Ranon and Mims jump on their

father and hug him.  Family and friends smother their

homecoming hero with love!

