PAN DOWN to reveal:

A flat horizon, stretching to infinity.

A 360 degree pan reveals: nothing.  Deserted, no hiding places.  No animals, no

humans, no objects.  Except in mid distance --

brightly painted, traditional, comforting, belongs in a village green.  Perfectly

ordinary -- except for its location.

Silence.  Only the wind over the plain.  Except --

The PHONE RINGS.

RING-RING ... a mellow, old-fashioned tone.  We wait for someone to answer it.  But

of course nothing and nobody for miles.  Except --

a CAR ENGINE ... A puff of smoke on the horizon ... VA-VA-VOOM of high geared

acceleration, as INTO VIEW

ZOOM! --

speeding like a bullet.  Driven at maximum, breakneck speed, 125 mph.  A petite open

top '65 Lotus Elan, all streamlined curves, full throttle, it nears the phone box, and --

SCREECHES to a halt.

Dust clears, ENGINE NOISE FADES.  From the seat, hops --

in black leather.

Buckled.  Strap at ankle.  Crunching into the ground.

PAN UP TO:

late 20's.  In CLOSEUPS of -- Tight black leather catsuit.  A flash of auburn hair.

Black leather like a second skin.  Smoothed over legs, thighs.  Buckled at wrists, straps

at ankles, zips --

Pulled up over flesh.  This is EMMA PEEL, scientist.  Sexual, invulnerable, cool.  Very

cool.  She locks up at clouds in the sky.  Then steps across to the phone box.  Picks up

the phone.

From the receiver, an irritated official voice.

Emma puts down receiver.  Hangs a cardboard outside the phone box.  Then presses

button bakelite box.

A second's wait.  A coin from the slot.  Then a HUM as --

the floor lowers automatically.  Emma disappears.  Hanging outside the box, a notice

now reads "Out of Order."

Next to the call box we notice a sign: an arrow pointing into the desert:  "London 84

miles."

underground.  Emma descends on the lift platform; steps into a research lab in retro hi

tech.  Walks past assistants, down long pink and orange steel corridors, Werner von

Braun goes disco.  Nears a door, marked:  "Prospero Project -- Authorized Personnel

Only." Logo with lightning emerging from a cloud.

A man enters, older.  In matching leather suit: like an astronaut.  Early 40's, handsome,

charismatic, with swept-back silver-black hair.  His name tag: DR. PETER PEEL.

Peter fixes her name tag: DR. EMMA PEEL; runs a finger down over her breast.  She

smiles.

Mutual erotic, intellectual attraction.  Peter takes her hand and they walk down:

air-lock doors: a series of sealed chambers inside a hitech Labyrinth --

A man joins them.  A shyer, bespectacled, less handsome version of Peter.  On his name

tag: DR. VALENTINE PEEL -- brother and partner.

In b.g., a countdown starts, ECHOING thru the lab

Valentine smiles, shrugs --

Emma gives him a quick peck on the cheek.

A shy look from Valentine at Emma.  Peter senses

Peter takes Valentine over to one side.  Emma checks gauges and dials.  Behind her a

conversation.  Peter returns.

He takes a ring from his finger --

on a gold ring.

He slips it onto her finger.

Peter smiles.  The remark strikes Emma as curious.  But no time to query.  She smiles

back.  He gives her a kiss --

The countdown ECHOES around them as they separate.

Valentine watches her.

Inside a bed of ice, Emma is lowered by hydraulic machine into a steel radioactive

thermal chamber, glowing eerily blue

The effect is very cold.  Frozen.  Numb.  Like a sci-fi Sleeping Beauty, beauty

entombed and sealed in a glass coffin.  Plunged down into a vault.  Opposite her --

In another glass coffin, Peter Peel, is lowered down.

The sound of their HEARTBEATS.  Their BREATHING.  BLEEP and PULSE OF

ELECTRONICS.  Thru glass and leather.  Like cerebral sex.  Technological, erotic.

Peter winks at her -- Emma locks longingly at him, as --

Valentine watches behind glass.  Like a kid excluded from a bedroom.  He attends to

dials.  And to his female assistant --

The assistant smiles oddly.  FOCUS ON --

An insignia tattooed on her neck: "X404."  A replicant.

They monitor screens.  A DULL HUM.

A weather antenna emerges from the ground:  an enigmatic phallic silver blob, like a

Koons sculpture.  The sun glints off it ...

A temperature gauge rises.

The ice is infused with pulsating colors: purple -- blue -- green -- red.  Starts to heat

It soaks up temperature:  from cold to hot in instants.

"CUMULUS COLLECTOR." The graphs accelerate, but over the dull HUM -- a

MURMUR, a BREATH.  As Emma's HEARTBEAT rises

The gloved  hand turns up the dial, past a red danger mark.

Suddenly a BLIP.  Something wrong.

Peter Peel's "coffin" starts to overheat. Peter reacts --

Needles push off the dials, as --

The ice swells: strange mix of colors, absorbing heat and energy in clusters of molten

metal ... steam and sparks ignite ... Valentine's eyes widen in alarm ...

Peter's glass cracks

The emergency light goes on -- the ALARM sounds -- lab assistants running ...

Emma realizes; looks to Peter --

The "Koons" antenna is drawing a strange purple cloud towards it, from otherwise blue

sky ... siphoning the purple atmosphere down itself into

Thru the air ducts the purple cloud starts to billow ... Panic stations! Valentine looks

aghast at the graphs:  all systems fucked, over the intercom --

FROM Valentine's anguished face TO Emma's face, as

Emma undoes the straps, clambers out of her pod

Emma clambers onto her husband's pod -- in a sequence eternally replayed for her as a

nightmare --

The purple smoke enveloping Peter's	pod, soft caresses -- Peter struggling within,

looking at Emma --

Her leatherclad limbs straddled over his glass coffin.  Her HEARTBEAT sounds ... She

grabs, claws on glass --

Her fist draws back, blam! blam! blam! three deadly blows, Emma SMASHES the pod

cover, it --

Cracks -- splinters -- not breaking -- obscuring his face inside like a spider's web, as

behind her

Breathless, blood smeared on glass, Emma's gashed fist bleeds thru torn leather glove --

twisted mass of flesh and glass -- GROWLING sound growing as:

The voluminous purple cloud being sucked by the antenna...!

gleaming thru a tear of blood as she pounds the glass --

As a GROWLING sound grows till

BOOM!  An EXPLOSION rocks the vault -- flames burst out -- sound and vision

separate -- Emma hears explosion as a slow moving tear thru her psyche.  A trauma.

The blast flings Emma back thru space, flying unconscious as if in a dream, floating

backwards in --

A milky way op-art swirl of glass and steel fragments, now -- out of control,

weightless, powerless, as --

The background of sealed doors, white corridors all vanish. A spinning, black void

opens up behind her, as her eyes shut, head falls back --

An orgasmic, dream of near-death, as a CRASH OF MUSIC BEGINS a hip new

version of the "AVENGERS" THEME TUNE --

CREDITS SEQUENCE.

In stark silhouette  The swishing of a bowler hat spinning thru space

An umbrella tossed in the air, flicked like a deadly weapon --

A rich velvety feel, key colors black/white/red.  Dandyish and erotic followed by blasts

of violence, dreamy op-art puzzles and psychedelic patterns over --

A sensuous BLACK, background -- slowly revealed to be a woman's leather-clad

body --

In silhouette -- A bowler hatted man, Steed, a catsuited woman Emma.  Flashes of:

hair -- eye -- a red rose -- in bloom -- petals folding and unfolding, then tightly shut.

A thorned stem, sharp to the touch --

FROM black and white INTO color -- leather Background metamorphosing into black

and white of a chessboard as ...

A medieval knight moves around its queen in a formal dance --

A fetishistic attention to detail: leather catsuit, swish of legs, boots ... hair tossed

back - - red nails over black ... creamy white skin ... zips ...

A silhouetted man in bowler hat in Savile Row suit -- old Etonian knotted tie --

umbrella stabs like a sword --

Umbrella with knotted stems of a rose furling round -- then a tear, gash -- rose cut and

tossed into --

His lapel. Until, at the end: together in silhouette.

Bowler hat thrown, skimming, swishing thru air, until --

Now only a single HEARTBEAT ... BA-BOOM ... BA-BOOM ...

Then --

PISTOL SHOTS OVER as:

A gasp as Emma wakes abruptly from her nightmare, years later, startled by the shots,

naked beneath satin sheets.  Her HEARTBEAT FADES as she looks around her Klaus

Oldenberg room, vinyl comforter, satin sheets.  A toss of her hair.

Looks more mature. Sexual, haunted. Mrs. Emma Peel -- widow.

Same every night.  Next to the clock, a framed photo of her dead husband, Peter Peel.

From outside ANOTHER SHOT ...

Emma flings on a satin robe, goes to the window and sees --

a CAR zooooming past, its bowler-hatted driver racing thru early morning streets.  The

damn thing BACKFIRES again ...

Emma frowns, annoyed.

Zoom!  The sleek, sporty black Jaguar SS100 burns down deserted streets.  Inside is a

bowler-hatted man --

JOHN STEED, late 30's.  Handsome English gent, roguish looks, dandy's clothes.  A

Beau Brummel figure in a Savile Row suit, velvet collar, embroidered waistcoat.

A debonair Etonian, Steed oozes charm, wit and - when he chooses to -- hard-edged,

steely menace.  He drives through --

This is 'Avengersland': a parallel world painted by Rene Magritte, forever England.

Bright pinks, greens and reds, an imperial city in final decadent bloom.  White stucco

buildings. Regency style in candy colors.  A surreally 90's city like a hipper, edgier

version of the 60's preserved in aspic, where --

Over the RADIO, a plummy voice:

As Steed turns into a mews, we realize that in this kinky, pop world, ordinary life does

not intrude.  No traffic.  No extras.  Nothing to spoil the view.

As the radio continues with a weather forecast, Steed --

Steed's car enters his garage -- Door closes as --

but the curtains are still drawn so the place is dark.

A large bachelor's den.  Dark wood, leather armchairs ...

Steed enters his library from a concealed door --

Titles on wine and birdwatching.  He clicks the door, goes to his drinks cabinet. Pours

a brandy.  Hears a noise ...

Instantly on guard.  In his glass, sees a shadowy reflection move.  Steed peers 'round a

corner.  Sees a silhouetted figure stand over his desk -- a burglar?

Steed sneaks up behind -- raises his umbrella, and --

Crack!  Brings the umbrella down -- on the suspect's head.  Who manages to dodge,

swivel 'round, and --

Bam!  Delivers an expert blow to Steed's stomach.  A rapid exchange of blows.  Steed

recoils, about to jab the umbrella, when --

His assailant about to deliver a kick to his crotch -- Steed covers the area -- bam! a

spiked heel hits his bowler -- as the curtains are drawn back, light floods in -- they

freeze.

Steed knows his opponent:  a lethal blonde in red leather.

a voice --

Steed swivels 'round to face -- upside down -- a man hanging like a bat from the ceiling

inches before him --

Pommaded hair, fat, dandyish:  MOTHER, head of secret services; hands of extendable

metal hooks.  And BRENDA, his beautiful leather-clad bodyguard.  Who smiles

seductively.

Mother suits action to the word, drops into his wheelchair.

Mother wheels himself from the study.  Taps a barometer.  It whirls around.

Brenda coolly files her nails.  A flash of jealousy.

A groovy penthouse (a Lichtenstein come to life?).  Bach PIANO MUSIC floats in the

air.

Hands gliding over keys, Emma Peel plays with virtuoso skill.  On the piano, a framed

picture of her late husband.  And a photo of Emma between Peter and Valentine.

A KNOCK.  Emma gets up, goes to the door.  The MUSIC KEEPS PLAYING, keys

jumping up and down automatically, as --

Emma flicks open a large automated eye.  Peers thru.  Opens

A MESSENGER (distinctive outfit) hands over a package tied in a bow.

Emma shuts the door.  Unties the bow, opens up  Finds an embossed card:

Emma looks: The phone sits there.

Just then ... RING-RING.  Emma goes over, picks up the phone.  A recorded message,

an upper-class woman's voice:

BEEP.  The phone goes dead.  Emma opens up the case.  Unveils a brace of kippers.

Puzzled, she holds up a fish.

Near the Mall, outside white stucco buildings, a Lotus Elan pulls up and parks as a car

conveniently leaves, cutting off another angry CAR.  HONK!  A dash clock says 2:15.

Out gets --

-- Emma Peel, different attire.  She climbs steps.  On a brass plaque, "Boodles

Gentlemen's Club."  She goes in, passing --

-- an astonished uniformed commissionaire.

A PORTER approaches her, equally surprised.

The Porter points to a notice:  "No non-members.  No animals.  No women."

Bored, Emma breezes past, already inside the hall.  Old mahogany, portraits of dead

politicians, leather chairs.  A male enclave.

The Porter rushes up to restrain her.

Hardly missing a step, Emma lays a gentle hand on his shoulder -- finds the nerve ends.

The Porter winces and --

-- collapses on the ground in agony.  Emma ignores him.  Pushes thru double doors,

upstairs, statues of naked bronze warriors frown down on her, into

Thru a cloud of steam in an oriental room

Steed sits naked save for a towel.  He hears a disturbance, thru the mist, sees --

Emma before him.  Automatically, Steed dons his bowler and tips it in her direction.

He doesn't.  HISSING STEAM between them as they study.

Steed steps closer, smiling.

Off Emma's reaction --

CAR ROAR OVER.  Down the embankment Parliament and Big Ben in b.g., the sleek

Jaguar zooms at 60mph.  Steed dodges traffic --

Wearing racing goggles, windscreen down --

Executes a nifty maneuver, swerves on a zebra crossing, scatters pedestrians,

HONKING his HORN.  Beside him, Emma is cool as a cucumber.  Steed turns

charmingly.

Steed swerves down a narrow alleyway, into a secret car park entrance by the

riverbank.  He pulls up before a sign:

At a control barrier Steed inserts a card.  Emma sees a light flash up: "Security -- Top

Priority Clearance Only."  The barrier lifts.  She looks again at Steed, reappraising him

as Big Ben approaches four.  The car disappears in darkness ...

opens, revealing water!  We are beneath the Thames -- garbage and fish float past a

window of reinforced glass.  An original Campbell's tomato soup can floats down as we

WIDEN to reveal ...

Mother in his wheelchair, pulling the curtain cord.

A delicate CLOCK on the mantel CHIMES FOUR.

Mother wheels himself forward and hooks onto the kettle.

He pours, presiding like a fat spider at the center of a subterranean web, known as The

Ministry: a vast bureaucracy in a labyrinth of tunnels.

Catches Emma's wandering lock

An atmosphere of a gentleman's club reigns in the subterranean bureau -- Emma takes

her tea ...

Bodyguard Brenda, a glam leather Moneypenny, wheels a trolley brimming with fancies

over to Emma and Steed.

Emma hesitates; takes a cake.  About to take a bite, when --

Mother switches off lights.  A screen drops, covering the water window as the mood

changes from coziness to terror -- an ancient PROJECTOR RATTLES on ...

Emma watches on the wall, an official Ministry film of macabre death tableaux in the

English countryside:

CLICK.  The lights go back on.  Emma notices - a new arrival

a tall, striking OLDER WOMAN; dark glasses.

Father's dark glasses turn to Emma like a hawk.  Runs her fingers over Emma's face.

Gets the outline.  Emma realizes --

Blind ... Father smiles.

He passes 'round a box of evidence related to the screen events:  Steed investigates a

pair of black shoes and bowler; Emma, a fish.  The shoes have agent Simkins' name

in them ...

Emma hesitates, unsure for the first time ...

She gets up, ready to go.

Mother hits the lights.  He flicks the video into slow-mo.  File thru image clarification,

identikit sketches.

Emma locks.  On the screen comes -- Emma Peel.  Steed reacts.

Emma stares at the screen: incredible.  Like a twin sister.

A life-size target of a man with blank face, bowler hat and umbrella, flips up, and --

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM!  Is riddled with holes by

looking on, Mother with Steed.

Emma swiftly turns, aims, and --

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! FIRES with dead-eye precision.

All on target.  Steed reacts.  Ulp.

A gallery of portraits of Emma Peel projected on the wall based on Warhol's Jackie

(1964) -- Poignant, inscrutable, fascinating, iconic -- blown up, dissected, analyzed.

The swirling newspaper dots cover Mother and Steed like bubbles from a light show.

As DR. DARLING, head of the Ministry's Psychological Operations (Psy Ops) -- a

kind of spy version of Timothy Leary, briefs them. In his thick dark glasses and beard,

Darling's obsessive interest in Emma adds a sinister air.

Images of Peter Peel on the wall.  Of Emma with him.

Steed looks meaningfully at Mother.

OFF Steed's reaction.  CLASHING BLADES OVER ...

Steed and Emma (new outfit), cross swords.  Like everything else she does, Emma is a

champion.  Steed is hard put.  Both fence attached to cables -- very high-tech

dueling ...

Steed is in white; Emma (natch), in black ... yin and yang ...

Tic-tac ...

Tic-tac ...

Fast swordplay.  Tic-tac-tic-tac-tic.  Steed's good, too.

She lunges; her foil tips right into the heart on Steed's chest.  BUZZ!  Steed removes

his mask; holds her foil tip.

Emma takes off her mask.

"Trubshaw's of Jermyn Street, since 1756."  Steed's Jag parked in front -- of course

there's a space.  Getting out

slips Steed's hand-made shoes an.  The "lasts" shapes of shoes beside him -- bear

Steed's name.

WIDEN to reveal:

A bull moose's antlers.  A horned rhino.  A Leopard.  A tiger.  Then next to them, in a

wall of hunting trophies Emma paces impatiently beneath them.  Shop assistants attend

in tails and wing-collars, very old school tie.  Steed emerges helped into a new flashy

waistcoat ...

Eyes watching Emma and Steed rise ...

A youngish man -- in black polo neck, Beatle-cut mop, pauting lips, smart suit, druggy

high-pitched giggle.  BAILEY, a cocky, cool psychopath.  He watches Steed and

Emma leave ...

... and saunters after them ...  CAR ROAR OVER.

as the Jag races through them, heading for the country.

Another car follows them ... as they pass Buckingham Palace, now painted pink and

guarded by female grenadiers ...

reading:  "Scotland" with an arrow, as Steed and Emma zoom past in the Jag ...

opens, revealing a tea service: a samovar of tea, feeding into a pre-warmed pot,

pouring into two china cups ...

WIDEN to reveal:

Emma, reacts, pours from the samovar ...

Steed's JAG BACKFIRES again as at the beginning ...

She hands over a cup.

Steed looks in the mirror.  Behind them, a car.  Tailing?

He puts his foot down.  Zoom ...

Towards picturesque Scotland.  The JAG ROARS by - then the other car ...

Emma consults a list, reads --

Emma takes in Steed's evasive answers.  Sighing, she pours.

The Jag winds around Loch Ness, followed by the car.

Emma takes this in.

Steed and Emma speed up to the huge open main gates

Signs:  "Private: No Admittance."  Guards in hunting gear and plus fours, with loaded

rifles.  They start up the drive ...

Several peacocks on the lawn fan open their beautiful tails.

One of them, a mechanical peacock whose thousand eyes CLICK with the WHIR of a

CAMERA ...

The other car pulls in behind. Inside, reveal Bailey watching them.

On a tartan carpet, a SCOTTIE BARKS furiously at a set of EXPIRING BAGPIPES

on the floor.  PAN UP to reveal:

A BUTLER leading Emma down the corridor --

-- where she admires the eccentric fixtures, pausing to note a large teddy bear outfit

with tartan trimmings instead of the usual suit of armor.

He opens the double doors, admitting Emma into

of semi-tropical climate.  Jungle plants, parakeets, snakes.  Walls lined with display

cabinets and bell jars:  stuffed birds, butterflies, spiders.  A thermometer reads:

100 degrees with high humidity. The Butler leaves.

Emma fans herself.  Nobody in the roam.  But hears a sound of RAINFALL from a

smoked glass conservatory.

Emma follows the SOUND, steps cautiously forward.

beneath a sprinkler system of torrential rain, an old man splashes in bizarre rubber togs.

Emma stays cool.

SIR AUGUST steps out of the shower and wind machine.  A belted rubber macintosh,

flippers, goggles.  He starts to disrobe, the NOISE DIES DOWN --

Sir August removes his goggles, recognizes her.

Before Emma can reply, the door opens...

Emma's attention switches to LADY JUNE, a buxom lady in a sou'wester and galoshes,

who wheels in a tray of scones.

Emma sees Sir August gazing wistfully out of the window, which is rapidly

darkening ...

Emma looks, sees rain start to pitter-patter on the windows.  Emma exchanges looks

with June as the rain starts pouring.

THUNDER and lightning -- Steed is caught out in it; puts up his umbrella; wanders

over the brow of a hill, past a big sign:  "No Trespassers."  Rains more.  And more.

Turns to a tempest, as --

Lashed by rain ' Steed carries on to the brow of the hill.  He looks over, peers through

the mist at --

A deep purple cloud.  Mushrooming towards him.

Steed can't escape it.  It envelops him.  Starts to blink.  Cough.  Footsteps less sure.

Surrounded by thick purple haze

Steed stumbles and falls

Down a hill.  Tumbles to the bottom.  He knocks his head on a rock.  Steed blinks,

shakes his head.  Eyes refocus.  He sees

Sun shining down on yellow sand, a barren vista.  Dead trees.  Suddenly Steed's in the

Sahara.  A heat haze shimmers.

Steed blinks, thinks he's dreaming when he sees ...

Steed heads towards it.  The PHONE BOX seems further away.  Like an optical

illusion.  Then hears RINGING.

Steed still bowler-hatted.  Overcoat.  Perspiring.  Takes off bowler, wipes brow.

Adjusts rose in buttonhole.  It wilts.

He arrives at the phone box. Opens the door.  Steed picks up the RINGING PHONE,

listens to --

A SCRATCHY ORCHESTRAL RECORDING of "The Merry Widow."

Over the MUSIC, a strange --

CLICK.  The line goes dead.  Steed is baffled.  Steps out, sees --

a shimmering heat haze.  A figure on a camel moving towards them.  Steed watches

amazed, as the camel pads closer ...

The mirage arrives. The rider dismounts. A woman in yashmak and veils. She draws

closer. Drops the veils to reveal --

Emma Peel.  In her black leather catsuit.

Emma moves closer.  Steed smiles at her.  Emma closer and -- chop! -- gives a kung-fu

jab to the throat, a kick to the balls, a jab to the stomach.  As Steed lies on the

ground --

Emma takes out a .38 GUN, points at his heart, FIRES --

BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  FOUR SHOTS --

-- The bullets strike his chest.  Round his heart.  Steed slumps back on the sands.  Eyes

close ...

moves over him. Drops a small toy snowshaker into his curled fingers. Blows a good

bye kiss.

The sun.  Clouds roll by.  The camel peers down at him.

Sound of CLACKING ...

FADE IN:

A hospital ward.  Empty apart from one bed.  A nurse (Brenda in her red leather), her

spiked heels clacking on the floor, brings over a cup of tea to

Steed in a hospital bed.  Who wakes, surprised to see Emma.  Peering over him.  Very

nonchalant.  Eating his grapes.

Mother with Dr. Darling taking notes.  Emma looks up at them.  Drops to a whisper.

But they both are wearing headphones.

Emma shows Steed the toy snow scene.  A winter wonderland snow scene.  He looks

puzzlingly at it.  On its underneath. "The Wonderland Corporation," followed by --

The sporty Jag pulls up outside a tall, swanky building.  Steed gets out, opens her door.

Irritated, Emma steps out of the car, clad in her leather suit --

hitting the street.   PAN UP TO Steed, admiring --

She moves off.  Stay on his poker face.

He joins her; they survey the building.

They look up to --

A boardroom suite, overlooking London.  Lights twinkling --

Around a conference table.  Twelve TEDDY BEARS.  Each six feet tall.  Ridiculous

and sinister.  In pink, turquoise, brown, black, white, green.  Furry, giant paws and

ears, swivel eyes.  One teddy sports a familiar tartan ...

On the table, children's party food: jellies, hundreds and thousands, birthday cakes.

And wrapped presents before each.

Each bear has a name-badge: Bobby, Bobo, Bruno, Bibi, Betty, Binky etc. pinned to

their fur.  A children's tune, "THE TEDDY BEAR'S PICNIC," plays.  Followed by -

a gavel rapping order.

A distinctively chilling voice, eerily familiar and seductive, which ECHOES through our

story --

The teddy bears look round.  Can't hear who's talking.

Murmurs of congratulations amongst the bears ...

Dismay from the teddy bears.  As a CUCKOO CLOCK RINGS OUT,

Uproar from the teddy bears.  Shouts of "Who?" (*PS: One of the Teddys is a giant

rabbit who seems especially alarmed).

Panic.  The bears scramble to go, bumping into each other.

In front of the teddy bears, each one receives a present wrapped up in paper with a pink

and silver bow.

The tartan teddy opens his up:  A snow scene.  Anxious moans.

UP and inside fire staircase, Emma and Steed run up -- Open the door to the

conference room.  The CUCKOO RINGS on their entry.  To FIND an empty room.

Only the party detritus plus little teddy bears sitting where formerly the big ones sat; the

teddy bear picnic MUSIC PLAYING again OVER ...

One snow shaker left.  Steed picks it up:  Inside it:

in black leather.

Emma stares at it.  Turns it over:  an address.

Inside number 38, a deserted Eastern bloc embassy.  A dilapidated hammer and sickle

tapestry in tatters.  Old spy techno-junk lies discarded in elegant living rooms.

Steed and Emma open the door, rush inside.

They search for clues.  A cigar left in an ashtray.  Steed picks it up with distaste.

Meanwhile, Emma goes into the --

where she sees a blob of BUBBLING GUNK, like radioactive chewing gum.  A few

pieces of charred clothing tell us this was once a man in a teddy bear outfit.

Steed enters behind her, examines the gunk.

Steed holds up the inside of a battered shoe:  the name.

A MEWLING SOUND.

Leaving Steed to ponder the remains, Emma goes into

Dark.  Switches on the light.  And gasps.

looks up as Emma emerges with -

A Leopard cub.  Steed raises his brolly.

Cooing to the cub, Emma tosses to Steed -- another snowshaker.  Inside -- another

address:  84 Cadogan Place.

NIGHT

Down a sheer wall Emma Peel abseils with rope and crampons.  Before gliding through

an open French window --

Emma investigates.  Nobody there.  She looks 'round.  Military memorabilia.  Busts of

Napoleon and Charlemagne.  Looks inside drawers.  Desks.  Meanwhile --

Steed feeds a carton of milk to the leopard, who is a handful ... licking, pawing him ...

Emma searching ...

finds a snowshaker.  About to look underneath.  Hears a NOISE.  Looks up, in front of

her in the mirror, sees -A giant teddy behind her.  Ready to strike --

Emma swivels 'round,  a fluid balletic motion, and --

Bam!  A kick to the teddy's stomach.  Then off balance, Emma hurls him over her

shoulder, darts in to pin the teddy to the ground as --

The teddy grabs Emma's legs, flings her off balance.  She falls.  Teddy grabs a military

sabre from the wall, and Woosh!  Slices through air at Emma's head.  She ducks.  The

sabre skims her hair.  Emma grabs another sabre; the fight is on!

Emma counterattacks.  Slashes with the sabre and the teddy's head goes flying off!

Jesus.  The torso stands unsteadily.

Emma's eyes widen as:

A man's head emerges from the teddy torso.

Emma's so surprised, he can slug her ...

Emma's out.

so is Steed and the Leopard -- both asleep.  A little milk dribbles down Steed's chin ...

The man goes to the other room.  Starts to take off the rest of his teddy costume.

Throws clothes into a suitcase.

The PHONE.  Terrified, the Man picks it up ... The voice ...

Teddy moves to the open window.  Sudden PAIN.  LIGHTNING.

Teddy looks up in terror as a purple cloud releases another BOLT.  Direct hit.  The

teddy slumps to the ground.  Soggy, waterlogged, very dead.  Kinda like the

other guy ...

Meanwhile Emma wakes up. Turns the corner.  Towards the other room, sees dead

Teddy.  Reads the label on his suitcase ...

from the window behind her like a spider on glass appears another "Emma" --

-- let's call her Bad Emma -- coming straight for Emma.  She makes a NOISE.  Emma

turns just in time to see.

Emma starts towards her double, who hesitates, then turns, leaping out the window ...

she wears the same black catsuit.

The real Emma rushes, follows her "double"

Clambers outside to rappel up the line to

Emma looks.  Beneath a starlit sky criss-crossed by wires, a rooftop maze of buildings,

flanked by giant gargoyles -- goblins, lions, griffins -- over twinkling lights ...

Emma searches the roof -- no sign, only shadows.  Then turns a corner to see --

Above the city, fairy lights on the rooftops of Harrods, lit by a million bulbs ... giant

neon signs ...

Several floors below, Emma sees the streets.  A twinge of vertigo.  Then she looks up,

hears a NOISE -- From:

she sees her "double" run.  Emma gives chase.

Hot pursuit.  Over rooftops.  'Round wires.  PAST neon signs high over the city ...

Emma follows.  Gains on the "double," who --

Pushes faster.  Gliding between rooftop buildings.  Dodging, weaving.  But Emma

gains more.  Sleek limbs, muscular, perfect body machine, until --

as she sees her "double" leap over a yawning chasm.  And stumble on the other side for

a footing.

as Emma's adrenaline surges.  She cannot stop, she --

Jumps!  Hangs in the air.  Limbs pushing out for the edge.  And only just, she lands

perfectly, gaining, closing, until --

Emma gains up close.  A final burst of acceleration.  Then without warning, her

"double" --

Turns, Emma catches up, and --

Wham!  Wham!  A kick -- a chop to Emma's body - double scissorkick -- Emma reacts

swiftly, surges into overdrive --

In a lightning-fast kung fu duel -- CRACK OF BONE -- CRUNCH OF BLOWS -- a

flurry of kicks as Emma --

Lands on her back.  The "double" attacks.  Emma retaliates --

Kicks up her leg -- flings the "double" over her head she lands awkwardly -- a

METALLIC CRUNCH in a blow to her head -- but picks herself up without pausing

And vanishes into the rooftop maze.

Emma stands.  Looks.   She's lost her "double."  She stands alone, silhouetted against

the night sky.

Caught in the moonlight.  Above sparks of neon.  Daunting, muscular, poised for

action, as --

Ears listening to distant noises.  SWOOSHING TRAFFIC.  FLUTTER of BIRD

WING.  HUM of WIND through wires.  Then an AUDIBLE SNAP --

above her a SPAM as a STEEL CABLE WIRE of an aerial is snapped.  Slowly wound

tightly 'round, bent back, coiled, ready to spring --

looks 'round.  Sees nothing, hears the sound of the WHIPLASH coming seconds

before --

Through the air --

a flashing line like a bolt of lightning, but cannot move quickly enough as --

as a cable wire whips across, coils 'round Emma, lashing her tight, crushing air from

her, as the wire --

Sweeps Emma off her feet, whiplashes her back like a spring, hoists her and dangles her

over the city.  She looks down.

A long way.

Emma grabs hold of the wire, which pulls her back.  She drops down to the rooftop ...

Slithers down the roof.  Slips --

Emma hangs on with fingertips.

Overlooking city with 100-foot neon sign above her:

for "Wonderland Weather" with: a repeated loop of a 100-foot high bikini-clad

"Emma" throwing head back in holiday fun -- Sign: "COMING SOON -- THE

NATURAL BEAUTY OF WONDERLAND WEATHER."

Emma hangs on, looks up, stares at "herself."  The surreal repetition of the loop.

Overlooking the whole city.

Dizzy, Emma threatens to pass out.  Just when from --

an unseen hand from Bad Emma winds down --

Another CABLE for her to hold.  It uncoils down past the windows, telltale SPARKS

flare up as it hits metal --

Emma tries to grab for it.  Misses, then grabs hold, and -- a LIVE CABLE -- a

thousand VOLTS surge through her body --

-- A shock, Emma plummets DOWN TO --

on a lower ledge.  She hangs precariously.  Catching her breath.  About to redouble her

efforts.  When beside her from a --

an umbrella extended.  Steed reaches out, reels Emma in.  They are back in Teddy's

flat ... Emma collapses in Steed's arms.  He helps her up -- hands her a phone.

It's Sir August.

CLICK.

Sound OVER:  RING-RING.

Sir August gripped with terror, stares at the PHONE.  The scotty DOG BARKS.

Finally, Sir August answers.

Mesmerized, Sir August goes to the window. Looks -- Lady June arrives, too late.

a purple cloud of cyclone-force rages towards him.  A luminous glow.  Then a

LIGHTNING STRIKE. And --

BOOM!  An EXPLOSION BLASTS the WINDOWS.  A WIND rushes

in ...

PAST obscure imperial statues a tiny micro Messerschmidt bubble car tootles down

deserted streets.

Father drives like a maniac.  She senses their unease.

Father jumps a red light.  CARS SCREECH together in a huge pile-up.  Not that smart.

Steed holds onto his hat.

Father SCREECHES to a halt on Holland Park Avenue

Steed and Emma get out.  Father takes off ...

A red London number 22 bus drives up.  As it arrives, in a conductor's cap is -- the

bodyguard, Brenda.

Steed and Emma board the bus.  Destination:  Not In Service.  They pay Brenda, the

conductor.  Go upstairs.

is Mother's temporary mobile HQ.  He squats in a corner.  Metal hooks on electronic

panels.  Now paranoid.  Suspicious.  All the upper windows have been blacked out.

Mother thinks, gets out of his wheelchair; takes a turn about the bus, sits down again.

No one pays any attention.

Sign "Grand Opening Soon."  WIDEN to reveal ...

Steed looks around, picks the lock ... hi-tech style ...

A kind of space-age travel agency.  Steed enters.

At the reception desk, the receptionist has her back turned.  Steed sneaks in, moves

behind a screen, overhears --

A man -- Bailey -- giving orders to the receptionist

Steed moves away from them, pushes a set of double doors open, arrives inside --

A long corridor surrounded by a presentation of --

Virtual reality weather:  clouds, sunny vistas, lush meadows, desert.  And slogans:

"Be natural.  Act natural.  Think natural.  The natural beauty of Wonderland Weather."

Steed reacts; the model is the same as Emma on the big neon sign near Harrods ...

Steed finds a desk.  Inspects papers.  Sees a postcard of a large stately home.  He

pockets it.  Then looks 'round to see --

Bailey before him.  We recognize him as the young dandy trailing Steed.  Neither gives

away the other.

Steed raises his bowler.  Bailey watches him go.

Steed emerges, stares at his postcard -- the stately home and:

"Headquarters, Wonderland Weather, Ltd." as --

Emma's LOTUS ELAN WHIZZES BY...

Steed lets it sink in.  Emma looks a little hurt.

The Lotus races 'round blind corners.  Hairpin bends.  Across a train at a level crossing,

which just misses them --

Emma sees Steed hold on for dear life. She smirks --

Steed looks into the mirror, sees a car behind them.  Pulling up, trying to catch up.

Emma glances in the mirror, and --

Puts foot down.  ZOOM.  Extra ACCELERATION.  Steed's head pinned back to his

seat.  Emma's hair tossed in the wind.

The Lotus twisting and turning.  The car behind always catches up.  Emma tries to

shake it.  Gears up.  Mach force.  Over crossroads.  Shaking 'round corners, as ...

before Emma pushes foot down.  Further ACCELERATION.  The car behind struggles

to keep up.  Emma coasts ahead, turns a corner --

And suddenly sees in front of her --

crossing directly in their path!

swerves, plunging the car into a haystack, where it is completely hidden as --

clears in time for the following car, which keeps going.

as Steed emerges, brushing off straw.  An old lady on a bicycle with a basket appears ...

A SQUEAL of TIRES as -

The following car swerves back, stops and Bailey emerges, gun drawn as Steed and the

Old Lady react ...

Steed raises his hands.

To Steed's surprise, she pulls an Uzi from her basket and

BANGBANGBANGBANG -- !  SPRAYS BULLETS into Bailey, who crumples, gun

spinning along the tarmac.  Cute and sweetlooking, the Old Lady is unfazed.

They start pulling away hay from the haystack ...

Coughing.  Then Emma, sputtering straw as Steed's face appears.  He tries to conceal

his relief at seeing her.

He pulls her out.  She's annoyed.

Emma brushes herself off; pulls off a piece of straw.

comes to life.  Steed, Emma and the Old Lady survey ...

On a lawn, a peacock flares its thousand eye tail.  A MECHANICAL CLICK, its eyes

conceal hidden cameras, recording Emma, Steed and the Old Lady, who've landed

inside the walled grounds.  They move stealthily forward, unaware ...

The Old Lady waves them on.  They enter a tunnel into

Tall hedges surround Steed and Emma and the Old Lady on all sides.  They follow the

path, slopes , round, curves, turns into hairpin bends and U-turns.  At first intrigued ...

Then perplexed.  Emma leads the way, Steed following.  The Old Lady slips OUT OF

VIEW.  Steed stops to pick a rose, puts it in his lapel.  Emma rushes ahead.

Steed sees Emma slip 'round a corner.  He pursues her.  Glimpses her.  Then loses her.

Another glimpse.  Sees her thru hedges, then seemingly --

Thru the other side of the hedge.  In two places at once.

Out of sight, Emma rushes on.  Around her, the hedges grow taller.  She seems to

grow smaller.  Emma begins to realize things are not what they seem.  As she pushes

her way thru --

the maze as a formal patter-n. Three tiny figures dart round.

DISSOLVE THRU TO:

A pattern on a screen.  The lines of the maze reformulated as abstract lines.  Steed,

Emma and the Old Lady as three flashing dots.  Someone, somewhere is watching

them.  Laughter, then a familiar voice --

Steed searches for an exit.

Emma sees a statue of a Butler.  Which springs to life.  Summons Emma.  She follows

down a path strewn with leaves.

As Emma steps on the leaves, she --

Falls down -- a giant rabbit hole.

Emma spins through darkness, like Alice in Wonderland ...

The identical face of Emma on a marble statue, as --

Steed studies the classical statue ...

Steed hears a noise, turns to see --

Emma walking towards him.  She picks the rose from his lapel, slowly coils an arm

around his neck.  Pulls Steed towards her, closes her eyes -- kisses him full an the

mouth.

The kiss ends.  Steed recovers his composure, lips coated with her lipstick.  His tongue

traces his lips; smarts ...

Poison.  He goes dizzy.  Steed collapses to the ground.

Inside the house, a grand hall.  Deserted.  A cobweb hangs from ceiling.  A velvet

curtain tattered and torn.

Emma.

A CUCKOO CLOCK RINGS the hour.  Ahead, the real Emma sees --

A giant staircase.  There on the stairs -- a glass eye.

She picks it up.  Puts it in a pocket.  Emma goes --

Sees a series of family portraits an the staircase.  One of herself in ornate aristocratic

regalia.

Rooms on either side.  Emma goes down the hall, pushes doors.

A mad child's collections of ... toys... rocking horses ... train sets ... ventriloquists'

dummies... and ...

Butterflies ... scarabs ... beetles ... glass eyes, staring at her from the blackness ...

Then Emma turns into a whole room of ...

Snow shakers ... A wall of them in glass cabinets like insect specimens or fossils.

Emma picks up one snow scene.

She shakes it.

as if in response, a storm gathers.  Shadowy clouds roll in.

A drop of rain starts to fall.  Steed's eyes flicker open.

He rises, looks down, reacts --

Alice, the Old Lady, lies near him in the maze, her neck snapped... Steed kneels, next to

her in the rain

She dies in his arms.

Wind picks up, too.

Steed looks about, frowning with discouragement --

THUNDER and lightning outside.  Inside the room of snow shakers, a CHILDHOOD

TUNE PLAYS.  Emma shakes the snow scene.  The weather seems to grow darker.

Emma hears the unmistakable chilling voice:

From the shadows ... a man.  A silhouette.  Behind a distorting lens.  His shape and

face unclear.  Emma puts down the shaker.

Outside the big window the weather is turning nasty ...

From the shadows, a man moves out, revealing:

Peter Peel, Emma's husband!  THUNDER.

Instinctively Emma moves towards him.  A long pause.

Emma pulls back.  Before she can turn, Peter takes her hand, places it over his heart.

BA-BOOM, BA-BOOM, BA-BOOM ...

Peter touches her hand.  Emma looks into his eyes.  Intrigued but alarmed, disbelief.

Peter raises her hand to his lips.

Emma shudders, battles with herself.

Emma is tempted, yet filled with terror.

Inside her pupil --

His face as he kissed her -- his ring on her finger -the visor cracking -- the glass

obscuring his face.

Peter smiles disarmingly.  As if the answer was obvious.

Peter comes over, folds her in his arms.  Takes her head between his hands.  Emma

leans over to him, about to kiss him, both closing their eyes, until --

Lips parted.  Before they kiss, Emma pulls back --

She turns, runs to the door.  Like a trapped bird.  She tries the door -- locked.  Another

door -- locked.  A window -- locked.

Peter grabs hold of Emma.  She pulls away.  Emma sees his face before her, pleading

with her.  Seductive yet nightmarish.

As if hallucinating, Emma runs away, towards --

The big window overlooking the gardens.  She runs, leaps, and in SLOW MOTION --

Crashes thru the GLASS, shards and splinters SHATTERING all 'round her, as she --

somersaults through the window down to the ground.  Lands with a THUD on the wet

ground.  Looks up to see --

Steed above her, the STORM RAGING.

She struggles to her feet, comes towards him, upset.

He slugs her and the SCREEN GOES BLACK.

CLOSE ON Emma's face.

Emma's eyes flicker...

Steed comes INTO FOCUS, sitting by Emma's bed.  This time he's eating her grapes ...

Emma looks around ... Everything blurs.  A STEADY PULSE DRONE.  Tugs at

leather straps.  No use.  WIDEN to reveal Emma strapped to a special couch --

Her head surrounded by a plastic dome, terminals and wires leading out into a

Dreamscape machine.  Drowsy, disoriented.

Drugged, Emma's eyes drop.  FOCUS CHANGES TO --

A giant spiral HYPNODISC WHIRRS, creating trippy black and white zig zag op-art

effects a la Bridget Riley.

She blinks.

Steed is gone.  Dr. Darling leans over her.  Emma stares at the hypnodisc.  Closes her

eyes.

Thousand REMs per sec -- a tiny chip next to her eyes, transmitting out via wires to --

A "Dreamscape" apparatus like a liquid TV screen flicks thru random images from

Emma's unconscious.  Peter Peel -- Teddy Bears -- post card views -- childhood

snaps --

Dr. Darling furls his hand over Emma's, his fingers resting upon her ring.  During the

interrogation, he soothingly strokes her hand -- tries to remove the ring without

arousing her suspicion.  Pulls gently on it.

In his wheelchair, Mother sits beside Steed.

Dr. Darling leans forward to interrogate Emma.

He looks and sounds sinister.  From a corner of her eye, she sees -- a clip of keys

hanging from his pocket.

Steed watching, listening ...

The exchange speeds up.  Unknown to Dr. Darling, Emma picks his keys; unlocks her

straps.

As Emma talks, the "Dreamscape" plucks images from her unconscious in trippy

psychedelic rush:  faces -- colors -- patterns flash past.

Quietly unclicks a lock.  She stops in mid-gabble.

Emma unlocks her straps.  Sits Up.  Woozy.

Dr. Darling is shocked, indignant.  Emma rips wires from her body.  The "Dreamscape"

machine winds down.  Up in the gallery --

BAM -- !  Mother bashes his metal cane on the railings

Pushes Dr. Darling aside.

Emma staggers.  Mother looks at Steed.  Who snaps himself out of staring at the

hypnodisc.

Emma heads for the airlock door marked:

"ANTI-GRAVITY CHAMBER -- NO ADMITTANCE"

Fat chance ... she goes in ...

Emma floats in the air, as Mother, Dr. Darling and Steed all follow.  And float

helplessly, turning around madly.  Trying to gain on Emma.  Mother's wheelchair,

Steed's umbrella and bowler, all tumble thru the air as Steed tries to reach the "OFF"

switch

Mother looks at Emma.  He's let the cat out the bag.  Steed finds the "OFF" switch.

They all tumble to the floor, Mother landing perfectly in his wheelchair,

Steed effortlessly catching his hat and umbrella.  He moves to Mother --

Steed stares Mother out.  Who delivers his revelations.

A turning moment for Emma.  A life lived on a lie.

Deadly serious, Emma walks over to him.

Silence.  Emma looks away, shocked.  Steed intervenes

Emma keeps staring at Mother, fingers her diamond ring.

touches her ring.

Emma looks up at Mother.  A barefaced lie.

Steed notices Emma touch her ring nervously.

Mother waits.  Emma turns round.  Looks fiercely at him.  Mother shifts uneasily as

Emma walks past him to the airlock.

Emma pushes open the doors.  Walks out.  Down a corridor.  Dr. Darling grabs

Mother, as he exits with Steed --

Mother exits with Steed; they watch Emma going ...

Mother wheels himself off.  Then stops; over his shoulder:

ON Steed.  CAR ROAR over as --

Emma drives a hot-wired Morris Minor out the open gates of the manor house, past a

sign which reads:

"WINSLOW HOME FOR RETIRED LEPIDOPTORISTS" (Butterfly logo)

In the b.g., a couple of old-timers race around with butterfly nets as Steed's jag pulls

past them in hot pursuit.

Emma speeds down lanes ...

Followed at a safe distance by Steed in his SS100.

Steed looks: a bleep on his radar screen tracks the --

on Emma's shoulder as she drives ...

The cars whiz past ...

Keeping an eye on his radar and the road, Steed switches on the radio.  The weather

forecast:

Emma drives into a churchyard.  Steed follows her ...

A medieval country church.  Sunlight streams through stained glass, illumining Emma

as Steed watches her lay --

A red rose by an altar tomb:  an ornate mausoleum two hands clasped in a pose of

eternal sleep:  Peter Peel.

Emma pauses, as in the b.g., choirboys sing hymn practice.  Steed watches Emma move

away, toward the door.  He drops a hymn book.  Emma swivels round -- sees Steed.

Emma smiles. Then turns, and --

Runs!  Steed follows Emma through a door to --

Steed enters, glimpses --

Emma above.  He follows her.  Hears her footsteps.  Trip- trapping up the spiral

staircase.  Steed listens, follows.

From below, Steed hears a BELL RING.  A FLUTTER of BIRDS.  As debris falls

down -- Steed runs up stairs, reaches --

BELL still RINGING.  At the top, a sheer drop.  Steed edges closer to the ledge.

Looks.  A long way down.

From behind --

Steed swivels.  Sees Emma blocking his path.  Cool menace.  Steed steps away from

the edge, Emma circles him.

Emma steps to the edge.  Steed freezes.  Emma locks down.  Feet resting on the ledge.

Rocking to and fro ...

Steed nears her.  Emma pushes herself right to the edge.

Steed reaches out for her.  Holds out his hand.

Steed snatches her from the edge, holds her in his arms.

Emma thinks.  Looks at him.  Deadly serious.  Their eyes lock.  She hesitates, then

pecks him on the cheek.

Emma hesitates.  Then a kiss on the lips.  Longer.  But not much.  Steed grabs her

hand, pulls her back.

Emma harumphs, exasperated.  Moves closer to him.

Steed nods.  Emma leans forward.  A full kiss.  At first reticent ... Emma looks at her

watch.  Counts seconds ...

Then ... forgets.  Warmer, more relenting.  Edging towards passionate.  They stay

embracing for fifteen seconds ...

The kiss continues couple of seconds longer.  Before Emma withdraws.  With an effort,

she regains her composure.  A long silence.

Steed savors the kiss.  No reply.  His smile says it all.

Steed motions down the stairs.  It's close to the edge.

Emma motions.  Steed goes down, passes close to the edge, and swivels round

nervously.  Emma reads his thoughts.

With this comforting thought, Steed descends first.

As Steed and Emma exit from the tower, they see --

A tranquil village scene.  Choirboys walk out from the church.  Nearby in the deserted

village street.  A red PHONE BOX.  Which ...

RING-RING ... Starts to RING.

A ROLL of THUNDER.  Steed looks up: a clear sky.  He's puzzled.  Suddenly

suspicious.  As Emma moves to the phone.

He pulls her back.  Emma looks at him.

RING-RING ... Another ROLL of THUNDER.  Steed connects the two as -- an

angelic CHOIRBOY walks towards the phone ...

RING-RING ... A LOUDER ROLL of THUNDER.  As the Choirboy nears the

PHONE, Steed shouts --

RING-RING -- the PHONE in the f.g. as the choirboy closes in, opens the door --

The door shuts.  Noise muffled.  The Choirboy can't hear Steed and Emma's shouted

warnings, as he lifts his hand up, and --

Steed sees him reach out, warns the vicar and choirboys.

Steed and Emma, all the choirboys hit the dirt, as

The Choirboy grabs the phone, and lifts it up, and

Silence.

No explosion.  A few seconds pass.  Steed and everyone

are down on the ground.  As they see --

-- the Choirboy leaves the phone hanging.  He gets out, scans the crowd.  Then walks

calmly over to Steed, who's still prone.

The vicar and choirboys look on sympathetically, as --

Steed dusts himself off.  Emma and everyone gets up.  Steed goes to the phone box,

takes the call.

His expression changes as he listens.  Emma goes to the phone box as Steed rings off.

He emerges from the box.

OFF Emma's reaction to this news --

Inside the upper room, in front of a mirror --

With his back turned to us.  Dr. Darling holds something in his hand, and waits as --

Bad "Emma" walks over.  She stands in front of him.

Blank expression.  Dr. Darling hardly even looks up.  With her hair up, we recognize

on her neck a tattoo:  Z424.

which he grips tightly. As --

a metamorphosis.  His features melt and bubble, a mask of plastic surgery and it's

slipping around like Michael Jackson's face under kleig lights.  He adjusts it, then ...

Shakes the snowshaker ...

THUNDER as the sky darkens -- PAN DOWN to reveal:

Steed's Jag, zooming through country lanes.  Rain starts.

Steed driving, winces with the drizzle.

Steed thinks; sighs.

Through a door marked "Information & Counter Espionage" --

-- walks Steed with another man in identical clothes:  dapper Savile Row suit, umbrella

and bowler.  Which is

Emma Peel, in disguise.  Steed furtively checks passers-by.

At a door marked "Information -- Col. I. Jones." Steed knocks, opens the door for her.

Emma goes in as Steed walks down the corridor.

A room full of archives and files.  Emma walks through tall corridors, stacks of cabinets

full of old paper.

Dusty, musty and mildewing.  Long forgotten.  Nobody there.  Suddenly Emma

hears --

FOOTSTEPS.

She follows them.  Round stacks, round corners.  The FOOTSTEPS get LOUDER.

She's closing in.  The FOOTSTEPS get LOUDER, until up ahead of her --

A filing cabinet drawer opens up.  On its own.

Emma watches as a file pops up, floats through air.  The drawer slams shut.  Still

nobody there.  Emma follows the file to a --

Desk.  Emma watches as -- the chair swivels round.  The file pages open up.  Then the

phone lifts up by itself, a voice:

Emma looks ahead of her.  To the chair. As --

A desk drawer opens up, a pipe is whisked through the air, a match is struck.  The pipe

lights; smoke belches forth.

Steed on the phone.

File pages flip through the air as Jones goes through them.

Emma is surprised.

Steed enters behind them on the run --

Steed proffers an arm to Emma.

She decides, takes his arm.

The A-team is born.  Steed and Emma tip their hats to Jones.

Troops rushing in to take up defense positions.  Searchlights pierce the cloudy sky.  A

protective ring of hardware surrounds the hall.

At the controls, Brenda looks on.  She hands a bag of jelly babies to Mother.  Who

picks out his favorites, as he gives a briefing to Father and others, sitting in

passenger seats --

ORDERS BARKED OUTSIDE as --

Brenda glances over at Father's imperturbable face. As --

Wind picking up.  Outside the grand palace hall for the reception of the World Council

of Ministers, guards stand on duty.  Barriers, flashing lights.  Nobody gets past,

except --

Up in the gallery, Steed and Emma enter through a secret passage behind a painting.

He with bowler and umbrella.  She in black leather and boots.  They find themselves in

a niche and freeze, very close to one another.  Steed sniff s ...

He fumbles with a bulging jacket pocket

She leads the way through marble halls, arched galleries, red velvet carpets, glittering

chandeliers.  From the hall, a SPEECH ECHOES:

Steed checks out his own.

APPLAUSE.

Steed pauses, offers Emma a small silver box.  Inside...

Steed takes some; Emma follows his example.  Weird.  Does it make you high?  They

walk on, open doors to --

An empty gallery.  Steed and Emma peer down at a --

A black and white floor.  Butlers move across like surreal chess pieces.  Otherwise,

empty.  A chamber ensemble plays "The Merry Widow" waltz, which floats through

empty halls.

They move cautiously forward as

Outside, snow begins to fall.  Trees and buildings shimmer under a light layer of white.

A Christmassy glow --

Even troops play with snowflakes, until --

The wind rises.  The snow falls harder.

Down in the hallway, Steed and Emma search for the Ministers.  They head down a

corridor, then hear a NOISE.  They hide behind pillers. As --

Butlers walk past in military file, carrying elaborate displays of lobster and meats.

Steed steals --

A chicken leg.  Nibbles on it.  Suddenly another door opens -- Emma hides.  Steed

looks up to see -- Father "staring" at him.

Emma in hiding, listens as --

Emma looks out the window behind her; eyes widen ... back to --

Emma is deeply affected by Steed's choice.

Father's face, meantime, has turned to stone.

She turns, almost walks into the door as she slips away.

Emma returns as the ALARM is raised --

She leads him to the window:  sure enough -- heavy snow.

Steed reacts, eyes wide.

The blizzard rages through streets --

Now impassable.  Snow drifts block roads.  White mountains of snow start to climb up

shop fronts.  And amid the sky --

Filled with snowflakes, up round the roofs, a purple cloud descends on unsuspecting

troops --

Steed returns, rushes across the marble halls --

To Emma. But up ahead, sees --

A purple fog seeping into the hallway, billowing through the corridors as --

Inside an anteroom, like a Roman arena -- marble pillars, red carpet, golden walls,

ceiling murals --

The World Council ministers assemble:  slick pin-striped suits or African robes, Chinese

Mao-suits, Indian Nehru-jackets, all distinguished men and women, surrounded by --

Fussing officials, minor dignitaries, and butlers, bowing and weaving a web of

diplomatic protocol, interrupted by --

The sight of Emma Peel in black leather.

She strides into the room.  Picks a glass of champagne from a passing butler.  All stare,

Emma raises her glass --

From the hallway -- BOOM -- !  The door bursts open, Emma is blown over by the

blast as the purple cloud races inside.

as the smoke furls around the ministers, they choke, fall.

From the doors -- Steed leaps in, gives Emma another snort of snuff --

Emma inhales.  Now immune to the gas, Steed and Emma hear -- CRASH -- !  They

see -- through thick cloud -a mysterious man in a white lab coat, wearing a gas mask,

leading a group of butlers, all in gas masks -- heads like black flies -- in formation

round the ministers, helpless on the floor.  A kidnapping --

The man and butlers haul away several ministers, and --

Escape from the rear doors.  The butlers form a guard to protect the man.

Steed and Emma run after them.  More butlers pursue.

As troops roll helplessly in the snow-covered purple haze, the butlers load the ministers

onto waiting choppers as --

Mother, Brenda, et al choke on purple smoke in the bus ...

Behind pillars, Steed and Emma hide as --

Butlers in gas masks patrol the halls.  A butler passes them without noticing.  They try

to emerge.  But another patrols --

Steed trips the butler with his umbrella, then chops him down on the ground.  He rises

but Emma kicks him into as --

Behind them Steed sees the lab-coated man escape up the stairs, protected by a posse

of butlers.  He shouts --

A whole posse of butlers then advances.  Steed faces them.

Emma hesitates.  Then turns, heads for an ornate dual shaft elevator.  She bangs the

button, gets inside, doors shut, as the BULLETS from MACHINE-GUNNING gas

masked butlers strike the brass door as --

Steed whips his rapier from his umbrella and duels with the butlers.  To give Emma

time, he uses every trick and prop at his disposal, plus, brute force to --

Kick, chop, punch, and impale them into submission, as --

The posse of butlers fan out on to keep pace with Emma.  They head upstairs, pressing

elevator "CALL" buttons on every floor, as --

Emma waits inside.  Until she reaches --

Doors open.  A HAIL of BULLETS hit the lift as Emma hides to one side until the

doors close.

Emma sighs with relief.  COOL HUM as the ELEVATOR rises.

Steed gaining on the butlers, heading for the stairs, as --

At the next floor, the doors open --

Two butlers rush inside.  BLAM -- !  Emma cuts one in the throat with an elbow

punch,  then --

Punches -- kicks -- stabs the other butler, a more brutish type, who recovers enough to

grab Emma by the throat.

She chokes, breaks his stranglehold, swerves him round, gains a nelson hold on his

arms and throat --

And a knee in his back in time for --

PING!  The BELL RINGS at --

3rd floor where --

Emma spins her captive butler round, in time to face --

Whooomph!  a blast of fire from --

A flamethrower launched in the hall.

Aaargh -- !  The butler gets fried, but --

Shields Emma from the worst of the blast. She  hurls him clear of the doors, which --

Slam shut.  COOL HUM ...

Steed continues his one-sided duel with the other butlers, skewering madly, trying to

get upstairs to help Emma...

Up Emma goes.  Looks for an escape route.  Bangs on the walls.  No trap doors.  No

secret panels.  The "floor" light flickers between floors.

Waiting, until ...

The doors open.  A grenade is hurled inside the doors, it rolls to one corner, Emma

dives to the other side, then --

Scrambles for the grenade.  Picks it up.  It slips out of her hands.  Scrambles more.  It

slips out ...

Just beyond the elevator doors.  Which start to shut.  Emma leans out a foot, kicks the

grenade towards the butlers, and --

As her elevator doors close --

BOOM -- !  It EXPLODES among the butlers, one of whom --

Rushes to --

Where he waits for the elevator.  Removes pin.  Grenade ready.  The light PINGS.

Doors open.  About to throw it inside, when --

No Emma.

The butler hesitates.  Looks inside.  Still no Emma?  He wonders what to do, and --

The doors shut; he jams his foot.  The doors open again.  He moves in --

-- and looks round.  Nobody there.  Until, as we --

PULL BACK UP to reveal -- FROM ABOVE, spread-eagled like an X on the elevator

roof, limbs flexed against the walls is --

Emma, who -- drops down and --

Scissors the butler's head between her legs.

The grenade rolls free ...

Emma twists around, grabs his ears, and --

Sits on his face.  Buries his head in her crotch.  A muffled sound from the guy, until --

Emma scissor kicks, breaking his neck.  She drags --

His head out.  Leaving his neck between the doors.  So as she leaps out, heads up for

the stairs, the elevators doors.

SLAM! And -- BOOM!  His GRENADE rocks the elevator, which

Breaks from its ropes, and --

Plummets down the elevator shaft, shaking the building as it crashes --

Everything shakes with the impact of the elevator as Steed battles his way up, step by

step, throwing gas-masked butlers over his shoulder as he struggles...

Up the winding staircase, at the top, a skylight, which --

Flips open.  The man leaps out, throwing back inside a smoke grenade, and locks the

skylight.  As the grenade --

BOOM!  explodes in the narrow staircase, fills it with purple smoke.  Emma rushes

thru smoke, choking.  She gets to the skylight, tries to open it -- locked.

A moment's panic.  Then Emma -- punches a hole in the glass, flicks the switch, flips

the skylight up, and --

Emerges into the night air.  Snowflakes tumble around her.

Blades whirling.  Amid the blizzard, the man ready to escape in a super-fab streamlined

whirly chopper ...

Another assassin attacks Emma, pins her on her back, overlooking the city.  Stands up

before her --

Emma held back over gargoyle, over now snow white city ...  Knees assassin in balls.

Flicks him backwards ...

As his body hurtles down into the snow-covered streets, Emma rushes forward.

But too late:  sees --

The chopper -- about to take off.

The gas-masked MAN in the white lab coat:

The chopper rises slowly.

Emma looks.  A fifteen foot leap ... Impossible.

A farewell wave from the gas-masked man.

contemplating the jump, beneath falling snowflakes, as the distance grows.

The rope/chain ladder coils into the chopper's belly.

Above London rooftops, after dark --

The man (still wears gas mask) the Pilot, CO-PILOT and a Butler (ditto).  From the

chopper, a giddy look down thru a glass command module.  A fairy tale, snow white

city.

OVER the RADIO, interference.  A changing of stations.  Then a CRACKLY

broadcast of "The Merry Widow."

As the WALTZ serenades them high above the city  --

a KNOCKING from outside on the door --

Surprised reactions.  The Butler opens the door, sees --

Emma hanging onto the helicopter struts.  The Butler is too dumbstruck to say

anything.

Emma grabs his epauletted shoulder, yanks him up, flicks him out --

The Butler is jerked out -- flies into the open air.  Emma watches him fall ...

The white-coated Man moves forward, but Emma is out, slamming the door, still

clinging ...

The Pilot nods, works controls, the chopper dips as --

Blam -- !  a kinky leather boot crashes --

Into the Pilot's face as Emma kicks in the GLASS from the front of the chopper,

SMASHES so the Pilots can't see -- a sudden rush of cold air --

The INSTRUMENT PANELS WHIRR round as the Pilots struggle for control --

with the blades whirling directly over her head, Emma crawls over the top of the

chopper and lets herself down the other side as London's lights twinkle beneath ...

As the Co-Pilot pokes his head out of the cockpit --

Emma grabs him with one hand, hoists him up into the air --

The Co-Pilot dangles over the city.  Grabs Emma.  Slithers back onto the cockpit.

Pistol whips her.  Emma crunches back onto the metal.  Blades whirring close!

The co-Pilot peers into her eyes from inside the gas mask --

He raises his hand, ready to hit her again, Emma yanks him up, where his head get

sliced off by the blades -- body and head fall away separately ...

As Emma reacts, her legs are grabbed from below and the white-coated Man pulls her

down the side of the chopper --

Emma falls, but manages a flying handhold, hangs onto the chain wire below the

chopper.  As --

The Pilot and his passenger zoom at low level over buildings.  Trying to dislodge

Emma ...

Thru the blizzard, zooming down streets, landmark buildings looming up topped in

snow, feet up ... shinnying up the chain wire ...

"THE MERRY WIDOW WALTZ," no longer heard as old record or ensemble

arrangement but enormous, for FULL ORCHESTRA ...

grimly hoists herself up along the struts again, hand over hand, coming up to the

cockpit from behind --

With a sudden movement, she yanks the Pilot out from behind and he goes flying

towards eternity on his own.

The chopper out of control as the white-coated Man is left to fly it himself ...

"THE MERRY WIDOW" BOOMS, the chopper lurches, spinning round -- up and

down, over spiraling corkscrews, an insane waltz ...

The white-coated Man gets control ...

Zig-zags down a narrow street, trying to smash Emma into sides of windows.

as Emma bounces of buildings, holding on for dear life ...

The chopper dips down, dragging Emma through icy water ...

Up ahead ... Tower Bridge ... twin peaks ... a firework display going on ... rockets and

lights in the sky thru snowflakes ...

Emma sees the bridge coming, reaches down and --

Detaches her pocket limpet bomb and lobs it into the chopper cockpit.

The bridge looms up, chopper rising to cross it as Emma leaps onto the bridge!

The Man sees the bomb ...

Also flings himself onto the bridge as --

Against b.g. of the fireworks display --

BOOM! -- the CHOPPER EXPLODES.  Ball of flames.  The crowd roars in

appreciation ... great fireworks!

Emma picks herself up, sees the Man in the white lab coat and runs for him.

He runs too -- towards --

which unloads a rope ladder as Emma puts on every ounce of steam ...

The Man reaches for the dangling ladder --

but --

stuck, wedged between narrow battlements.

The Man looks at his shoe, at Emma charging towards him, at the rope ladder.  He

pulls his foot out of his shoe and grabs the ladder, sailing off in the second chopper,

leaving Emma panting behind.  She's soaked, frozen, gasping for breath, bending over,

when she sees --

Emma pulls it from its wedge, looks at the inside:  --  "Trubshaw's of Jermyn Street."

On Jermyn Street, snow lies waist high.  BLARING SIRENS.  Searchlights.  PA

announcements urge citizens to stay indoors ... PULL BACK to reveal a fire glows, a

CLOCK TICKS calmly.  Emma sits with her shoe, surrounded by a pile of shoes.

Steed & Trubshaw beside her.

Steed reaches and pulls off the micro-bug from her shoulder.

He tips his bowler off her surprised reaction.

An armory.  Steed stands before racks of umbrellas, displayed like ceremonial swords --

ivory handles, duck handles, you name it ...

Steed hefts a few, as picky as a Samurai ...

Emma surrounded by a mountain of shoes.  Triumphantly, she holds up a pair of shoe

lasts.

with the name:  DARLING.

Steed selects his umbrella and we FOLLOW UP TO:

He sees only Trubshaw.

Worried.

WIDEN to reveal:

Inside the archives, among leather volumes.  A file goes through the air, passed to

Emma ... As she reads.  A map is opened across a desk from her.

below the Thames as at the beginning.

In darkest paranoia, Mother lies at the heart of his Labyrinth.  Controls around him

flash emergency.  Panic.  Cakes piled up beside him, uneaten.  Beside him, Father.

Brenda hands a phone.

Mother grabs the phone, furious.

He signals frantically for Father to trace the call, but being blind, Father just sits

CLICK.  The line goes dead.

Furious.

Brenda smiles at the thought.  Father rises, grim.

Through mist, an ultralight plane zooms down -- From the plane, Emma leaps in

parachute ...  Down, down, down through the mist ...

Over parkland, the parachute floats down ... To an island in the middle of the

Serpentine river.

Emma lands, buries her parachute.  Walks towards a thick jungle, then a stream.  Emma

hops across on water lilies until she reaches land again.  Where a peacock fans its tail of

a thousand eyes.  A CLICK of CAMERAS.

In the midst of the jungle, Emma sees --

A red phone box.  Emma frowns in recognition; goes inside.  Picks up the phone.

Presses "Button B", and --

The floor goes down.  Emma goes down with it, into --

Formerly a Ministry installation.  The "elevator" stops.  Remembering, as from a dream,

Emma steps out into --

A GUARD patrols.  Emma pushes herself against a wall.  The wall gives way to flip

round, and Emma swivels into --

The door locks behind.  Alone, Emma stands warily.

From nowhere, a chilling, disembodied voice.  Intimate.  Seductive.

Suddenly lights!

Emma is in a hall of mirrors.

In every direction Emma turns, a thousand reflections of herself stare back at her,

splintered into fragments as Emma spins, freaked and confused by the multiple images.

Emma turns into herself -- only herself drapes arms around her and kisses her on the

lips.

Bad Emma -- whose eyes stare into Emma's startled ones as Emma pulls her mouth

away, staggers back; realizes too late.  The hallucinogenic lip poison.  Emma crumples

to her knees as --

Sees "herself" above her, before she -- falls unconscious.

Steed's Jag races, skids in bad weather.

Behind the wheel Steed, his face grim, concentrates on the slippery road.  On the seat

next to him the snow shaker with little Emma inside --

As if in a dream, Emma awakes captive inside a bizarre cage:  A life size snow shaker.

Emma "swims" in viscous air,	suspended like a mermaid.  Thru glass she sees --

A face peering in:  Father.

Emma pounds the glass in frustration.

as Steed drives towards it ...

Bathed in candlelight.  A romantic supper for two ...

A door opens, admitting -- Emma. Dressed, coiffed, super-glamorous.  She locks

around, sees another door.  In search of escape she hastens to open it, only to reveal --

A giant rabbit -- the one we saw at the Teddy Bear meeting.

Emma gasps in surprise, moves back into the room as he advances, removing the

head -- it's Dr. Darling!!!

He steps out of the rest of his costume ...

He pulls at his face, which bubbles and collapses as he walks towards her --

Emma's horrified expression, eyes widening as --

Dr. Darling turns into ... Peter!

Again he claws at his face, pulling, twisting ...

Emma winces at the sight, her eyes popping out of her head.

It's Valentine!

beneath Gothic turrets pupils in top hats and tails.

PULL BACK THROUGH windows to reveal:  Steed and an OLD TEACHER in the

beautiful library.

He's flipping through yearbooks, then shows Steed --

of Valentine Peel on stage, in wizard's garb.  Made up as an old man ...

grim.

Emma frozen, sinks into a chair, staring ...

He walks around the dinner table as he talks ...

Twisting the dial.  PAN UP the arm to reveal Valentine.

The phone hangs in the air -- with the smoking pipe.

He pushes a button.  Bad Emma enters.  Tattooed Z424.  Unmistakably hostile.

BAD EMMA HISSES, a strange mix of STATIC and FEEDBACK.

He stands very near her -- she's terrified -- then:

As he advances, ZOOM IN EXTREME CLOSEUP Emma's eye

Another ball, WIDEN to reveal, from the lake, an odd eight foot high plastic ball

emerges -- The ball lands on the shore.  From the inside, a zip peels away the plastic

layer to reveal --

Steed, like an urban dandy in suit and bowler.  A rose in his lapel.  He steps out, and,

poking with his umbrella --

Deflates the inflatable plastic submarine.  Steed heads off -- CAMERA EYES the

peacock swivel towards him, as he heads into the jungle where he sees the --

Steed picks up the phone.  Presses all the buttons until he hits "Button B."  As the floor

lowers, his eyes widen in surprise ...

carved in Emma's likeness.  Lowered from the ceiling hydraulically into --

ACTION

as Valentine descends spiral steps to join it.

Valentine opens the coffin to reveal Emma strapped within.

Steed stealing down a corridor and --

hides, as a posse of guards rushes past, alerted by the peacock cameras.  He waits till

they pass, then reaches out his umbrella, and --

Nabs Father around the neck who was feeling her way after them.  Brings her down.

Holding Father securely, Steed forces her nose into his rose boutonniere, squeezes the

rubber tube, sprays a Mist.  Father passes out.  Steed rises, locks around.

Sees --

A grille and removes it, climbs in and replaces it before the guards return.  He turns

and --

crawls forward through a mass of wires and plumbing --

until he hears a VOICE -- VALENTINE'S.

Steed reaches another grille, through which he can see --

Emma's coffin, standing on end, like the Iron Maiden faces a wall of TV monitors as

Valentine explains.

Emma reacts -- also Steed (unseen) behind her.

Valentine takes her by the hand. Kisses --

Valentine is philosophical.  He spins the sarcophagus on an axis, lying it flat -- Emma

lying in her coffin as he looks down at her --

Valentine presses a button.  From the ceiling -- a surgical laser.  Moves down to within

inches of her face.

He marks an imaginary line round Emma's face.

An ALARM BELL RINGS.  Emma reacts.

Valentine switches off the PA.

He stuffs a gag into Emma's mouth and closes the coffin on her muffled protests.

Darkness.

Immediately, Steed tries to force his way through the grille.  No such luck.

He doesn't dare say her name too loud -- and there's no telling if she could hear him in

that thing, anyway.

He turns around in the tunnel -- heads the other way.

Moonlight night.  Dark clouds approach like an army, spreading shadows.

MOISTURE SPITS and CRACKLES, static energy waiting to explode ...

In the sky -- clouds join together like a genie from a lamp, forming -- over the city -- a

strange dark sensuous figure, half human, half dreamlike.

That stalks the city....

Steed crawling.  A rat runs over him ...

Pitch dark, then --

Emma's coffin is opened and we see Bad Emma, looking down.

Bad Emma stares at her human double -- Emma: who looks imploringly at her to undo

the gag.  Bad Emma removes it, she --

Runs a finger down Emma's body, inside a hole torn in the leather -- warm human flesh.

Blood.  Her flesh.  Her blood.  Fascinated.

Bad Emma listens.  Gently lays her head on Emma's breast, listens to --

the HEARTBEAT.  Ba-boom.  Ba-boom ...

The words jolt Bad Emma back, remembering her mission.  She goes to the laser, aims

it at Emma's face!

Bad Emma hesitates, looks strangely human as --

The grille pops off and Steed emerges where the guards are waiting for him --

No escape.  He takes off his bowler -- deftly removes a strip from its brim, aims it at

the guards, and --

Hurls it ...

A glinting razor's edge, which --

Swoosh -- !  Slices into the closest guard before returning, like a boomerang to Steed.

He taps twice hard steel as ...

run towards him, Steed swivels gracefully and - slams the bowler in their faces, a

sartorial knuckleduster -- wham -- !  One drops -- Bam -- !  The other collapses, slump

to the ground.  Steed stoops down, picks up his hat, sees --

A dent in its steel top.  For the first time, Steed loses his cool.  Genuine rage.

Stepping over the nearest body, Steed moves on his way, as --

places a ring inside a control module filled with identical-looking diamond chips ...

WIDEN to reveal ...

Masses of dials and switches.  ( Off to one side, on a wall, a rack of rapiers ... )

Valentine hits a switch ...

The countdown starts, red digitals going backwards --

Colorized computer screens map out hostile weather fronts.

A COMPUTERIZED VOICE STARTS to COUNT.  The CLOCK TICKS.

Father enters behind him.

Father tries to hit the switch.  Valentine yanks her off.

Valentine strikes her hard --

Father slides to the floor.  Valentine ignores her.  Concentrates on the control panel red

lights, as --

Up in the sky, more white clouds --

Darken into boiling black.  They move and billow.  Bubbling with gases and energy

Swirling with motion, a life of their own.

FROM river, a scarlet fog floats upwards.  It gains mass and weight, slowly forming as

it rolls --

then RISES ABOVE them -- into a weird pulsating red shape.

A love heart.

Whirling backwards ...

Mother at the controls.  RINGS the ALARM.  Panic stations as -- SIRENS BLARE.

WARNINGS RING OUT OVER TV and RADIO --

Bad storm clouds advance over London ... black and furious.

As shadows in a whirl of chemical matter.  An airborne CYCLONE of BELCHING

static ELECTRICITY.  The black shape now --

Forming a sensuous female shape.  Like a dream wisp of ...

Emma Peel with an hourglass figure.  While --

The heart-shaped cloud seems to -- move towards the black genie shape -- trying to

connect, to form the cyclone ...

Action stations.  AIR RAID SIRENS ...

Like a re-run Blitz.  Streets now eerily empty and dark.

Through deserted streets --

Troops race to positions in gas masks.  Searchlights illuminate clouds.  Worried faces

watch the skies, as --

Fly ...

Chaos on all TV monitors as ...

Valentine hastens down the spiral steps and opens Emma's coffin.  What will he find??

Emma's there, still gagged.  Looks asleep.

Emma opens her eyes.  Valentine looks down at her, until -- a tell-tale sign:  Z424.

Bad Emma is unmistakable.  He strikes her -- yanks her out of the coffin.

He races back upstairs as ...

ACTION

Emma makes her way through the labyrinthine superstructure of the place, crawling

high on a girder over some BURBLING LIQUID below.  She hears NOISE IN the

DISTANCE.  Suddenly --

Steed battles more guards!  No time to lose.

Wham -- ! Bam -- ! Now moving with deadly earnest, Steed downs all oncomers,

closing in on --

Steed rushes in, BOLTS the AIRLOCK behind.  Pounding on door.

He sees the timer racing backwards -- stands over the controls, trying to figure out how

to stop the program.

Looks for the chip -- amongst all the rest it's like trying to find a contact lens in

opens behind.  Valentine emerges, drops the HATCH COVER with a THUD.  Steed

whirls.

Valentine fulls forth a rapier from the wall.

Steed unsheathes his umbrella, revealing ditto.

The fight is on as the numbers grow smaller!

Valentine whacks the blade off Steed's umbrella handle.  Laughs.  A diminished phallic

symbol.  Steed, dumbfounded.

Valentine advances towards Steed --

Who points the umbrella at him.

He moves to close in, when ...

from the muzzle, as a BULLET ZIPS out, and --

recoils.  Blood streams from his shoulder.  He looks up, devastated.  Steed blows

smoke away from the muzzle.

He FIRES again.  To the heart.  Valentine spins to the floor.

Steed turns to the console, tries to figure out how to stop the countdown, when behind

the hatch opens again, revealing Emma.  Valentine pulls her up, grabs her as hostage --

Steed turns.

Valentine has Emma, a knife to her throat, stands over the hatch.

Valentine drags Emma, bolting the hatch.

He's torn briefly, but there are thousands of lives at stake; Steed goes to the control

module and starts pulling out chips, looking ...

The biggest cyclone you've ever seen starts slowly whirling above the city, gathering

momentum ...

going down, down, down, as ...

Valentine drags Emma backwards ...

The cyclone picking up force ...

pull up a chip.  The red numbers freeze.  WIDEN to reveal...

The SIRENS CEASE.  Steed allows himself a smile of relief.

The giant cyclone begins to break apart ...

Troops pulling off gas masks as ...

Steed sees the breakup of the cyclone ...

Then -- behind him -- an ominous CLICK-CLICKING as the PROGRAM reconfigures.

A DIFFERENT ALARM BUZZER SOUNDS and the words:

"AUTO-DESTRUCT, 3 MINUTES"

start flashing ...

A different set of numbers start running backwards ...

Valentine, dragging Emma, reacts to the new ALARMS.

In his hesitation, Emma suddenly makes her move.  A struggle -- Emma takes a bad fall

down a landing below.  Ugly THUD.  Dead.

He's materialized across the girder from Valentine.  Who pulls his revolver.

Bad Emma's arms go 'round Valentine in a lethal embrace.

Uh uh.  She holds him in a vice-like grip.  Hugging Valentine.

As the life is squeezed out of him, Bad Emma finally smiles.  Cradled together, she

chokes Valentine, who gasps for breath, as --

One last desperate move on his part and Bad Emma tumbles backwards, Valentine

locked in her arms in a dying embrace.

They fall into the mists and liquid below.

Steed almost falls himself as he grabs a beam for support.  Looks down, sees ...

Dead.

He has said her name.  He scrambles down to her body.

Emma lying sprawled out on the ground.

Steed picks up her limp body in his arms like "Sleeping Beauty."  His eyes fill with

tears.  He lays her down.

He produces Peter's ring.

Slips it onto her finger and ...

Kisses her.  A chaste kiss on the lips.  But with the force and passion of a lover.  He

closes his eyes, looks away in grief.  The ALARM STILL SOUNDS but Steed doesn't

give a damn.

Behind, Emma opens her eyes.  As if revived by the kiss.  Or the ring.  Looks up at

him.

Steed looks back at her -- surprise, delight.

Racing backwards as ...

Steed pulls Emma through the catwalks and corridors of Valentine's Labyrinth ...

racing to zero, nothing to stop them ...

Steed and Emma race in -- she sees the sarcophagus.

Emma scrambles in and Steed leaps on top of her, bringing down the lid as ...

3-2-1 -- and a BLAST like a nuclear EXPLOSION -- as the Underground HQ is

fragmented to smithereens -- Emma's " coffin" goes flying ... as the SCREEN WHITES

OUT.

it floats the coffin -- which opens, revealing ...

Steed and Emma, squashed together, gasping for breath.

The coffin drifts downstream in the moonlight.

SLOW DISSOLVE TO:

A few weeks later.  Across snowy wastes, a pack of Huskies drag a sled behind them,

WHIP CRACKED by a --

Frozen fur-clad Siberian peasant.  As he turns a corner, dogs stumble from ice and

snow into --

The peasant stops, stares.

Sun beats down.  A tropical beach.  A warm sea.  A butler, Trubshaw.  POPS a

CHAMPAGNE CORK.  From a tent, he brings two glasses down the beach to

Where Steed and Emma toast in the sun.  Steed in a smoking jacket, Emma in a bikini.

On cue from the water, Mother emerges, snorkeling in his wheelchair contraption --

with Brenda.  He waves to --

Steed seems peeved that his chance to be alone with EMMA is spoiled.  Trubshaw

pours glasses of champagne.

Trubshaw trots off dutifully.  A large ice bucket appears.  Mother moves in.  Absorbed

by Emma, now his new protegee.

Steed gives his champagne to the Siberian peasant.  He presses a switch -- an umbrella

shoots up between them, opens up, twirls.

PULL BACK to reveal the strip of beach, like a tiny bubble of tropical weather.

Against a Siberian b.g. of snow.  As we WIDEN we REVEAL a giant glass bubble,

hearing --

PULL BACK to reveal no shop for miles around.

Behind the umbrella -- LAUGHTER.  CHINK of GLASSES.

