This is a Southern story, full of lies and fabrications, but

truer for their inclusion.

FADE IN:

A RIVER.

We're underwater, watching a fat catfish swim along.

This is The Beast.

The Beast's journey takes it past a dangling fish hook, baited

with worms. Past a tempting lure, sparkling in the sun. Past

a swiping bear claw. The Beast isn't worried.

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - NIGHT (1973)

WILL BLOOM, AGE 3, listens wide-eyed as his father EDWARD

BLOOM, 40's and handsome, tells the story. In every gesture,

Edward is bigger than life, describing each detail with

absolute conviction.

EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT (1977)

A few years later, and Will sits with the other INDIAN GUIDES

as Edward continues telling the story to the tribe.

Edward points to his wedding band, glinting in the firelight.

Edward slips his ring off.

While the other boys are rapt with attention, Will looks

bored. He's heard this story before.

INT. BLOOM FRONT HALL - NIGHT (1987)

Edward is chatting up Will's pretty DATE to the homecoming

dance. She is enjoying the story, but also the force of

Edward's charisma. He's hypnotizing.

WILL, now 17 with braces, is fuming and ready to leave. His

mother SANDRA -- from whom he gets his good looks and

practicality -- stands with him at the door.

ON WILL AND SANDRA

His mother pats him sympathetically, then adjusts his tie.

Will regards his father with exasperated contempt.

INT. TINY PARIS RESTAURANT (LA RUE 14) - NIGHT (1998)

WILL, now 28, sits with his gorgeous bride JOSEPHINE. This

is their wedding reception, crowded with their friends and

family. They should be joyful, but Will is furious.

Edward has the floor, ostensibly for a toast. The room is

cozy and drunk.

Over near the doorway, we spot Sandra, just returned from

the restrooms. She looks gorgeous. She couldn't be any happier

if this were her own wedding.

Will can't take any more. Josephine tries to hold him back,

but he gets up and leaves. Edward doesn't even notice.

As he leaves, Will mutters in perfect unison with his father --

Will reaches the door, where his mother intercepts him.

Will can't articulate his anger. He just leaves.

He focuses his words on Sandra. This story is -- and has

always been -- about her more than anyone.

A LAUGH from the crowd.

Edward motions for Sandra to get up here with him. As she

crosses, we can see that thirty years of marriage has not

lessened their affection for each other.

As they kiss, Edward tweaks her chin a special little way.

The crowd APPLAUDS.

Edward toasts the happy couple. Josephine covers well for

her absent husband, a smile as warm as summer.

Edward downs his champagne in a gulp.

EXT. OUTSIDE LA RUE 14 - NIGHT

We come into the middle of an argument on the sidewalk.

Occasional PASSERSBY take notice, especially as it gets more

heated. Both men are a little drunk.

A long beat, then...

Will won't let him get the last word.

ANGLE ON Edward. Fine. A hand to wave, enough of you.

He walks away.

ANGLE ON Will, still fuming with righteous anger. It's then

we FREEZE FRAME.

INT. A.P. NEWSROOM (PARIS) - DAY

A typically busy day. On hold with the phone cradled under

an ear, Will sorts through a bundle of mail dropped on his

desk.

He's put back on hold. Returning to the mail, he finds a

hand-addressed envelope. Rips it open.

INT. BLOOM HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

At the table, Sandra talks on the phone while Edward fixes a

sandwich.

Edward takes a seat, starting to eat his sandwich.

INT. BLOOM HOUSE MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Sandra stands by the window, watching as...

EXT. BLOOM BACK YARD - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]

Edward swims laps in the family pool. He's born to the water.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Edward stares intently into the water, a lion in wait.

We LOOK DOWN at the river, where Edward's reflection is caught

in the dark water. As the water ripples past, something

changes.

Sure enough, as we LOOK UP again, it's a younger EDWARD BLOOM,

20's, staring into the water. He's not just handsome, not

just charming. It's as if all the forces of the natural world

had conspired to create him.

Suddenly, this Edward thrusts both hands into the water,

grabbing hold of

THE BEAST.

He brings the catfish up to his face. Looks it right in the

eye. A beat, then the Beast spits out Edward's gold ring.

Smiling, Edward takes the ring, then throws the Beast back

into the water with a splash.

TITLE OVER:

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Young Dr. Bennett stands between the Wife's legs. She's

flustered and sweating, but the doctor has a comforting

bedside manner...

Suddenly, we hear a POP as a slimy mass of human being rockets

into the doctor's unprepared hands. Bennett tries to hold

tight, but the infant is slippery like a fish. It shoots up

into air.

The NURSES and the Husband try to grab the baby, but no one

can hold it. As the newborn sails upward TOWARDS CAMERA, we

can see a GIGGLING SMILE on its face.

As it falls, the newborn knocks over a tray, which provides

it a ramp to slide right out of the room. Everyone races

after it.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY

Bursting through the doors --

A NURSE finally scoops up the slippery baby. Everyone lets

out a collective sigh of relief.

INT. HALF-DARK PARIS APARTMENT - (PRESENT) DAY

Over the sound of rain, a phone RINGS on a chair. By the

tone of the ring, we know we're not in the U.S. -- it has

that insistent European sound.

As it keeps RINGING, we look to see the apartment is mostly

empty, just a few half-unpacked boxes. A cradle is still in

its carton.

KEYS in the lock. LAUGHTER in the hallway. The door swings

open to reveal a drenched Will (29) carrying four sacks of

groceries, the bottoms collapsing from the rain. His wife

Josephine (28) pushes past him to get the phone.

Will begins stripping out of his wet clothes, each layer

unleashing a new drizzle. He plays it up, trying to get a

reaction out of Josephine.

She hands the phone to Will, concerned.

Half-stripped, Will takes the phone. This won't be good news.

As Josephine takes off her rain coat, we see she is very,

very pregnant. She listens carefully to Will's side of the

conversation, trying to gauge how bad the news is.

He covers the mouthpiece. Looks over to Josephine.

A beat.

INT. AIR FRANCE 747 - NIGHT

As the plane continues boarding, a STEWARDESS recites the

welcome spiel in French. Will has a window seat in coach.

Josephine sits beside him, putting on hand lotion.

Taking his hands, she rubs the excess into him. There's an

effortless intimacy between them. She can pinpoint what he's

feeling before he can.

INT. 747 / FLYING - NIGHT

Hours later, and the lights are dimmed. Most of the PASSENGERS

are asleep, including Josephine. Her head is propped against

Will's shoulder, her hands tucked under her belly.

Will watches her sleep, brushing back her hair. A beat, then

he notices a BORED BOY in the next row over.

Off the glow of the reading light, the boy is using his hands

to cast shadows on the seat back. The kid is pretty good,

making a convincing bird, a passable monkey, and finally a

dog.

We PUSH IN on the silhouettes.

Focusing on the final shadow, we...

INT. BLOOM HOUSE - NIGHT

...come to find Edward making the shapes.

Will (6) sits in his pajamas on the floor next to him. The

endtable lamp lies between them, its shade off to cast big

shadows on the wall.

Edward looks around for a beat, seeing if his wife is in

earshot. He then leans in, complicitous.

Will smiles, excited to hear the forbidden story.

Edward holds up his hand, counting the names on his fingers.

As his hand moves past the light, we

A flashlight SWEEPS past. We are...

EXT. FIELD AT THE SWAMP EDGE - NIGHT

The night is WHIRRING and BREATHING, alive. The moon hangs

low, casting long shadows.

Five kids walk past in silhouette. Four have flashlights on.

The fifth keeps tripping, crashing into YOUNG EDWARD (10).

Red-headed ZACKY PRICE is 10. His brother DON PRICE is 12,

and a lot bigger than the others.

WILBUR FREELY, also 10, is the black asthmatic son of a

sharecropper. Redheaded RUTHIE MACKLIN, 8, is happy just to

be there.

MOVING UP behind the kids, we find ourselves at the gates

of...

EXT. A CREEPY OLD HOUSE - NIGHT

We PULL BACK, and BACK, revealing more of the Gothically

creepy house: its broken windows, strangling vines, and eerie

gargoyles half-buried in the dirt. Even bats are afraid to

fly over it.

In the moonlight, the house is especially sinister. Who knows

what is lurking in the shadows?

We finally come to the kids, staring in through the gate.

Edward looks back at the spooky house.

He hands Zacky his flashlight, then starts climbing the gate.

Edward drops down on the far side of the gate. Truth be told,

Edward is scared, but he forges ahead anyway.

Wilbur looks to Ruthie, and they're in complete agreement.

They get the hell out of there. Zacky would run too, but Don

holds him by the collar.

EXT. APPROACHING THE HOUSE

Edward curves around the tall bushes that hide the front

door. Anything could jump out of them.

He steps on the porch. The boards SQUEAL and CREAK, but he

continues on. A cat SCREAMS OUT from a broken wicker rocker.

Catching his breath, Edward reaches the front door.

The doorknob is ancient brass, two projections that look

like horns. Yet Edward extends his hand, reaching closer and

closer before he finally

RINGS THE DOORBELL.

Impossibly fast, the door opens, revealing an OLD WOMAN with

a patch over her left eye. She looks like she's been dead

for years, but too stubborn to lie down.

EXT. BACK AT THE GATE - NIGHT

Zacky and Don Price wait for Edward, each moment more

convinced he's already dead. But suddenly, he's back at the

gate.

The Old Woman steps out of the shadows behind Edward, flipping

up her eye patch. When their flashlight beam hits her left

eye, it shines with a hellish glow.

We RUSH IN on Zacky, who is paralyzed by what he sees.

EXT. FRONT PORCH OF HOUSE - DAY

An OLD MAN -- Zacky -- stands on a wobbly stepladder, changing

a lightbulb. Suddenly, the ladder gives way and he falls.

Dead.

EXT. AT THE GATE - NIGHT

We RUSH IN on Don Price.

INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY

Twenty-year old Don Price falls face-forward on the tile,

face mushed in the grout. Very much dead.

EXT. AT THE GATE - NIGHT

Don and Zacky both tremble with fear. The latter has tears

in his eyes.

The brothers suddenly bolt. Still standing next to the Old

Woman, Edward smiles.

EXT. AT THE OLD WOMAN'S DOOR - NIGHT

Edward helps her back inside. He could leave now, but

curiosity gets the better of him.

The Old Woman turns to him slightly, still not facing him.

The Old Woman smiles a little, a crooked grin of broken teeth.

The Old Woman turns leaning her face right in front of his.

And on a silent count of one, two, three -- Edward looks

into The Eye.

This time we don't cut. Instead, we HOLD ON Edward as he

witnesses his death. He stares transfixed, perplexed and

amused. Whatever he sees, it's not as dire as the other boys.

His future has something strange in store.

The Old Woman nods. Still a little overwhelmed, Edward turns

and leaves.

As Edward leaves, the door swings SHUT on its own.

INT./EXT. BLOOM HOUSE - (PRESENT) DAY

The front door opens to reveal Will and Josephine on the

porch with their bags. REVERSE to Will's mother Sandra (53),

surprised and a little annoyed.

A beat. Starting over...

He leans in and hugs her. She surrenders, squeezing her son

tight. Will and his mother are cut from the same cloth --

strong-willed but practical. They've always been close.

That hug finished, Sandra pushes past her son to her daughter-

in-law. Seeing the size of her belly --

They hug.

It's not flattery. It's the truth.

Josephine squeezes past, a smile to her husband -- be nice.

Will heads back to the rental car to retrieve luggage. Sandra

follows him.

Coming down the driveway, we get to see the house for the

first time: an older suburban home, three bedrooms, big for

the neighborhood, and nicely grown into the lot. KIDS are

playing on the street.

Heading back to the house...

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Sandra is pouring iced tea for Will and Josephine.

DR. JULIUS BENNETT (85) enters from the foyer, still winded

from coming down the stairs. He was the town's first Black

physician. He's still the town's best physician.

He judges her belly.

He leans close to her, whispering in her ear...

She smiles, surprised but not doubting. Will looks over --

what did he say? Josephine shakes her head.

Back to the main subject...

And in the silence that follows, a lot is said. It wasn't

the upbeat reply Sandra was hoping for.

A moment of awkwardness -- everyone here knows they haven't

spoken in years.

Sandra hands Will a squat can of Ensure from the case on the

counter.

INT. FOYER - DAY

Coming out from the kitchen, Will slowly climbs the stairs.

They CREAK with every step.

The wall is filled with family photos, happier times. Most

of the pictures are of Will, starting when he was an infant

and ending at his wedding. As he climbs the stairs, we can

see him growing up with every step.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

A crack of sunlight spills around the half-open door at the

end of the hallway. Will walks towards it, running a hand

along the wallpaper.

Almost at the door, he stops for a beat. Gets his breath.

Then goes inside.

INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

Edward Bloom, 61, lies asleep on the bed. Although he's not

the vibrant man we've seen before, it's not as bad we feared.

The illness has been quick, and left him largely intact.

There are no I.V.'s, no monitors, nothing.

Coming up to the bed --

Edward cracks open an eye, a beat before he focuses. He tries

to say something, but no words come out.

He looks over at a pitcher on the nightstand. Will pours him

a glass of water, helping him hold it to his parched lips.

Finished, Edward sets down the glass by himself. A very long,

tense beat. Will almost speaks again to fill the silence.

Finally...

Will doesn't rise to the challenge. A beat, then he remembers

the can of Ensure. Holds it up. Edward recoils.

A beat, then Edward rolls his eyes. Fine. Will cracks open

the can, finding a straw on the nightstand.

Edward slurps down as much of the Ensure as he can stand,

then pushes the can away. He swallows with difficulty.

A beat.

Edward gives a wry smile. He walked into that.

Will won't commit to Edward's assessment.

Edward LAUGHS a little, which becomes a COUGH. The HACKING

escalates until another drink of water gets it under control.

It's not clear whether any of this was an act to keep from

talking.

He didn't mean for that to sound so pointed. Taking the half-

empty Ensure, Will gets up to go. He's at the door when...

He smiles at his joke.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Shutting the door behind himself, Will drinks the rest of

the Ensure himself. Edward was right. It tastes horrible.

Heading for the stairs, Will walks past an open door. As he

leaves frame, we STAY BEHIND to look inside...

INT. WILL'S BEDROOM - DAY [FLASHBACK]

...where an eight-year old Will is propped up in bed, his

face covered with chicken pox and pink calamine lotion. He's

showing Edward how many bumps there are on his arm.

INT. TINY CHURCH - DAY

Wearing a white shirt and tie, YOUNG EDWARD -- still about

10 -- sings "Down to the River My Lord" along with the

CONGREGATION. His voice is high and thin, but he gives it

his all.

Suddenly, his voice CRACKS and DROPS a half-octave. And then

another. His friends Wilbur Freeley and Ruthie look over,

wondering what's wrong. Embarrassed, Edward just keeps

SINGING, trying to follow along with the baritone part.

He pulls at his collar. Then pulls again, his face getting

red. Starting to panic, he loosens his tie. He's starting to

undo the collar button when it POPS off by itself. Two more

buttons fly off. One hits a CHUBBY WOMAN in the neck.

ON HIS SHOES

As we watch, Edward's pant cuffs rise inch by inch -- that's

how fast he's growing.

INT. YOUNG EDWARD'S BEDROOM - DAY

Young Edward lies in bed, his limbs connected to various

pulleys and levers to support his weight. He has a dozen

encyclopedias around him, and another dozen on the floor.

INSERT: The encyclopedia article, complete with drawings.

Young Edward thinks this through.

EXT. BASEBALL FIELD - DAY

The CRACK of a bat announces the game-winning home run. The

crowd CHEERS the swing, and especially the batter as he rounds

the bases.

Although we've seen him briefly before, this is our first

real exposure to GROWN-UP EDWARD, who we'll follow from

roughly the ages of 18 to 30.

EXT. SCHOOL FIELDS - DAY

SINGLE SHOTS: Football hero Edward leads his team to victory.

On the sidelines, a PRETTY GIRL admits the name of her secret

love:

The other GIRLS SQUEAL in agreement. Don Price looks over,

glowers.

EXT. NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

SINGLE SHOT: A lawnmower ROARS along the grass. We LOOK UP

to see who's pushing it, but it's not Edward. It's one of

his teenage EMPLOYEES.

Edward is back at the truck, which is painted to read, "Bloom

Landscaping." He has workers on every lawn.

He signs an autograph for an ADMIRING CUB SCOUT.

INT. BASKETBALL COURT - DAY

Edward takes an impossible shot at the buzzer from the other

end of the court. Naturally, he makes it, winning the game.

As the crowd goes wild for Edward, Don Price is the only

teammate who doesn't mob him.

EXT. TOWN - DAY

Edward carries a dog out of a burning house.

INT. SCIENCE FAIR - DAY

Edward wins a blue ribbon for his invention, a machine

labelled "Perpetual Motion." He and the JUDGE pose for a

photograph. A FLASH.

Pissed, Don Price throws his crappy lima bean plants in the

trash.

INT. HIGH SCHOOL STAGE - DAY

A dashingly handsome Edward leads the CAST out for a curtain

call. He's the star of the show. Off to the side, we see Don

Price is the ass-end of a horse costume.

Edward soaks in his applause, smiling and gracious.

EXT. GRADUATION STAGE - DAY

Edward accepts his diploma. The PRINCIPAL hugs him tight.

EXT. FARM - DAY

As two FARMERS shake their heads, we REVERSE to a show a

massive hole punched through the side of a barn. It's roughly

the shape of man, but no human could be that large.

EXT. SHEEP PEN - DAY

Two fat ewes look up, a shadow falling across them. They

BLEAT in panic as

TWO OVERSIZED HANDS

reach in and scoop them up. Their protests continue as they're

carried away, one under each arm. We still haven't seen the

full stranger.

EXT. COURT HOUSE - DAY

A MOB of about 50 have gathered, many of them with shotguns.

Amid the crowd we see Don Price.

Agreement from the crowd. And then...

Everyone turns to see who said that. The crowd parts to reveal

none other than Edward Bloom. Don Price glowers.

EXT. HILL OUTSIDE ASHTON - DAY

Edward climbs up the last bit of the steep hillside, reaching

the mouth of a cave. Outside, buzzards squabble over the

remains of the giant's feast: broken barrels, bones picked

clean.

In his most serious voice, Edward calls out:

There's no answer.

From deep in a cave, a thunderous voice:

The giant's voice has such force, it blows Edward's hair

back.

A beat, then we hear a RUMBLE, like a train coming. Edward

braces himself, fists ready for a fight, if that's what it's

going to take.

As the RUMBLE gets louder, the ground starts to shake. Even

Edward starts to worry. Just how big is this guy?

Edward picks up a stone, ready to play David to Goliath.

Then suddenly, the giant bursts forth. Hunched over, he slams

into a stunned Edward, knocking him halfway down the hill.

KARL THE GIANT is bigger than any man you've ever seen. Not

just tall, but massive. He's completely feral, with a beard

to his elbow and skin scratched and blistered. What remains

of his clothes are ragged and muddy. God knows what's living

in his matted hair.

Karl leans over Edward, blocking the sun. Edward throws his

rock, but it just bounces off. The giant didn't even notice

it.

Edward ponders the best response, settling on...

Karl's eyes narrow, confused. Edward stands up.

Edward closes his eyes, hands at his side, ready to be eaten.

Karl just stares at him, not sure what to do.

After a beat, Edward opens his eyes a tiny bit, just to see

what the giant is doing. Relieved to see he's not licking

his chops --

Karl sits down with a BOOM, dejected.

Reaching up, Edward shoves his hand into Karl's mouth. But

the giant spits it back out.

And that's the sad truth. Karl is less a monster than a freak --

a giant man, but in the end, just a man.

Edward takes a seat beside him.

Circling behind them, we look down at Ashton -- a tiny town

in a tiny valley.

Karl smiles, but then it fades. A certain sad suspicion --

Karl thinks a moment. Then --

They shake on it.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

IN A SINGLE SHOT, Karl cuts his hair with hedge clippers,

while Edward cuts up a surplus army tent to make him a shirt.

EXT. MAIN STREET OF ASHTON - DAY

Spirits buoyed by the high school MARCHING BAND, all the

good CITIZENS of Ashton are gathered to see off Edward and

Karl.

There's a few tears amid the familiar faces.

Edward ducks a bit so the Mayor can put the key around his

neck. The crowd CHEERS. And with that, Edward and Karl start

walking, waving as they go.

Only DON PRICE, smoking on the corner, isn't sad to see Edward

go. He crushes his cigarette under his heel. He wishes he

could crush Edward.

Many of the townfolk come onto the street to hug Edward or

shake his hand.

As the crowd parts, he finds himself face to face with

THE OLD WOMAN.

The ruckus slows and quiets, as if a strange spell has been

cast. She motions for Edward to lean down, so she can whisper

something to him. Although we're VERY CLOSE, we can't hear

her voice.

The advice only succeeds in confusing Edward.

Edward and Karl keep walking. The Old Woman shuffles off,

somehow knowing her advice will go unheeded.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

We TILT UP from the road to reveal Edward and Karl walking

out of Ashton. Each wears a backpack with all his earthly

possessions.

Edward and Karl come to a bend, where the paved road veers

left and an overgrown dirt road runs straight. The old road

is blocked with signs and warnings of danger.

Karl looks at the dirt road, wary.

A little paranoid...

Karl perks up, even though it means more for him to carry.

EXT. DIRT ROAD - DAY

The road is overgrown, but not altogether creepy. The sun is

still shining, and the birds still CHIRPING.

Spinning the Key to the City, Edward WHISTLES, because it's

a day meant for whistling.

EXT. FURTHER ALONG - ROUGH PATH

The road has narrowed to a rough path. Spikes of sunlight

break through the thick canopy, catching particles in the

air. Still, Edward WHISTLES.

Coming around a bend, his PITCH DROPS as he sees thick, thorny

vines growing across the path. He stops. For the first time,

he realizes the birds have stopped singing. The forest is

dead quiet.

He looks back the way he came. It's tempting to go back. It

would be easier to go back. But Edward presses on.

He carefully steps through the thorns. His trouser legs catch

on the barbs. We can hear the fabric TEAR.

FURTHER ALONG

A scratched and sweaty Edward waves off various STINGING

BUGS flying at him, finally whipping off his hat to swat at

them.

Just then a CAWING crow swoops down and grabs the hat right

out of his hands.

He stops his swearing, but grabs a rock and throws it. The

stone ricochets off a tree and into a BEE'S NEST. The swarm

roars out.

Edward high-tails it, each step still precarious.

EXT. THE DARK FOREST - DAY [LATER]

Edward is bruised, battered and bee-stung.

A half-broken sign lies in the road. Edward picks it up.

Reads it:

Sure enough, up ahead he sees the path is overgrown with

thick cobwebs, heavy from the rain.

Edward tosses the sign and forges ahead, into the spiderwebs.

EXT. CLEARING / THE ROAD - DAY

Edward emerges from the forest, brushing the last cobwebs

off and shaking the spiders from his shirt. One is stuck in

his sleeve, and he has to dance to get it out. Even then, he

still keeps twitching, convinced another one is left behind.

At his feet, the gravel road has returned, smooth and dusty

and comforting.

Ahead lies a tiny one-street town -- smaller even than Ashton --

with powerlines emerging from the woods to feed it. Dangling

from the line above he sees two dozen pairs of shoes, their

laces tied together.

He passes a sign that reads "Welcome To Spectre!"

EXT. THE TOWN OF SPECTRE - DAY

It's a main street with stores on each side: Cole's Pharmacy,

Talbot's Five and Dime, Al's Country Store. Everything is

old, but this isn't a ghost town. In fact, there's a group

of about 20 CITIZENS spilling out to see Edward approach.

Most are smiling. There are even a few tears of joy.

What's more, all of these people are barefoot.

A forty-year old man named BEAMEN comes out of the seed store

to greet Edward. Friendly but a little drunk, he's the closest

thing the town has to a mayor. He's carrying a clipboard.

Beamen checks the clipboard. Not finding the name, he flips

forward a few pages. Still looking...

Still confused...

A helpful woman named MILDRED chimes in:

Beamen's daughter JENNY (8) hides behind her father, peering

around to look at the handsome stranger.

He didn't mean it as a joke, but for some reason, everyone's

laughing.

INT. BEAMEN'S HOUSE - DAY

Sitting at the kitchen table, Edward takes a second slice of

apple pie. He and Beamen are joined by NORTHER WINSLOW (30),

who fancies himself a cultured artist, though he's never

left the state.

UNDER THE TABLE

Young Jenny is stealthily untying the laces on Edward's shoes.

Suddenly, Jenny YANKS OFF Edward's shoes. She races for the

door.

He chases after her.

EXT. TOWN / MAIN STREET - DAY

As she runs, Jenny ties Edward's laces together. Reaching

the edge of town, she tosses the shoes up and around the

power line -- a perfect throw. There's no way he's ever

getting them down.

The gathered citizens of Spectre CHEER for Edward, who is

confused and overwhelmed. The women hug him. Men shake his

hand.

Still focused on his shoes...

The townsfolk continue to congratulate Edward...

EXT. UNDER A TREE - DUSK

Edward sits with Norther Winslow. The fireflies are out.

Thousands of them.

Norther hands him his noteboook.

A beat.

Norther grabs his notebook back.

Norther doesn't answer. Just goes back to his notebook.

EXT. BY THE RIVER - NIGHT

By the light of the full moon, Edward soaks his feet in the

water, trying to make sense of it all. The Key to the City

dangles around his neck.

He stares at himself in the reflection. He smiles.

It's then that a WOMAN emerges at the far side of the river.

No telling where she came from -- she must have been swimming

underwater. We never see her face.

She stands in the river with her bare back to Edward,

squeezing the water out of her golden hair, oblivious to his

presence. Edward is breathless. It's the first woman he's

seen in her natural state, and he doesn't dare move lest he

frighten her away.

Then he sees the snake.

It's a cottonmouth, has to be. It leaves a break in the water,

its small reptilian head aiming for her flesh.

There's no decision to be made. On pure instinct, Edward

dives in. He swims as hard as can,

GRABBING THE SNAKE

just as it's about to strike.

The woman dives back underwater, understandably terrified

that a man is coming at her.

As the splashing subsides, Edward looks at what he holds in

his hands. Which isn't a snake at all, but rather a common

stick. And a non-threatening one at that.

While Edward ponders his mistake, he looks around to discover

that the Girl in the River is gone. He never even saw her

face.

Edward keeps expecting her to surface, somewhere, but she

never does. He stands alone in the river, wondering what

tricks his eyes are playing on him.

EXT. BY THE RIVER - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

Edward looks to the bank, where young Jenny Hill is watching

him.

Embarrassed to admit it...

Given the day he's had so far, Edward isn't inclined to follow

up on the issue. He starts to wade back to the bank.

Edward climbs up onto the shore, completely drenched. He

pulls up his pant legs to reveal three shiny leeches clinging

to his skin.

He starts to work pulling them off.

EXT. PATH BACK TO TOWN - NIGHT

Edward and Jenny walk back.

Eager to get off this subject...

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

As Edward and Jenny approach Main Street, they find "downtown"

has been transformed. Lanterns and streamers hang on cables

across the street, and a small stage has been built at one

end to hold FIDDLERS.

The whole town is there in celebration of its newest citizen,

Edward Bloom. Before he can protest, two WOMEN have grabbed

him by the arms, pulling him in to dance with them.

The resulting dance number seems both choreographed and

complete chaos. From FARMER to BAKER'S WIFE, everyone wants

to dance with Edward, who finds himself tossed around like a

stick caught in a whirlpool. Still, he's having a blast.

Jenny grabs both his hands, and they spin wildly.

Beamen plucks his LAUGHING daughter away to dance with her.

Then Mildred cuts in to dance with Edward. It's hard to hear

over the MUSIC.

Edward stops dancing. A beat, then he heads for the edge of

the crowd. Beamen is there, with Jenny on his shoulders.

And with that, Edward walks down Main Street. The townspeople

stop dancing, disbelieving, some shaking their heads.

Poor Edward Bloom's gone crazy.

Jenny runs to him. She'd tackle him if she could.

It's not good enough, but it will have to do. Edward keeps

walking.

EXT. THE DARK FOREST - NIGHT

VARIOUS SHOTS: Edward negotiates the thorns in his bare feet.

It's horrible. Almost unendurable.

And then it gets worse.

The trees ahead are moving. At first, it just seems to be

the wind blowing the branches, but as we hear the wood

CRACKING and GROANING, there's no mistaking it: they're trying

to block him.

Snake-like WHITE ROOTS shoot out of the ground, grabbing for

his ankles. He leaps up, kicking off one tree trunk to grab

another one's branches. He swings off, lands and rolls. Now

all the trees are moving to block him, their dark shapes

towering over him in the flashes of LIGHTNING.

As he ducks under branches, the chain holding the Key to the

City gets caught. He's almost strangled, but the chain finally

breaks. The silver key disappears into the mud.

Scrambling forward, he looks for a way out. But the trees

have encircled him, their spiky crowns bending down to crush

him.

He SCREAMS up at the night, until his breath is gone.

With a sudden calm...

Another lightning FLASH, and suddenly the trees are back

where they've always been. Edward is lying shoeless and torn

in a muddy puddle, staring up at the rain. And LAUGHING.

EXT. THE ROAD - DAY

His bare foot steps onto asphalt.

Edward turns to see

KARL

to his right, coming down the larger, paved road.

Edward looks down at his muddy, bloody feet.

With that, the men start walking down the larger road.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Edward and Will sit at opposite ends of the table, with Sandra

and Josephine in the middle. Although Edward has a small

plate of food in front of him, he hasn't touched it. He's

exhausted from the trip downstairs, but determined to maintain

the family dinner ritual.

The other three eat awkwardly, each CLINK and SCRAPE of a

knife or fork resonating. Will finally breaks the silence.

A beat. As Will scoops out another serving of potatoes, Edward

suddenly speaks:

All three stop to listen.

Taking the bait...

A beat.

INT. GROCERY STORE - NIGHT

Will shakes a shopping cart free from the pile-up while his

mother checks her list.

AT THE PRODUCE SECTION

Sandra starts to bag string beans.

She's more amused than annoyed, but Will is entering dangerous

territory.

She moves on to the carrots.

With a look, Sandra acknowledges the stakes.

INT. AT THE CHECKOUT - NIGHT

Reaching the CASHIER, Sandra hands over her coupons. Will is

approaching with a Newsweek magazine.

Two checkstands over, an ATTRACTIVE BLONDE WOMAN in her 50's

is getting her change. Though she's Sandra's generation, she

carries herself like a much younger woman, with blue jeans

and sneakers.

She accidentally makes eye contact with Will as he passes.

We HOLD ON the woman, who tracks Will as he reaches Sandra.

It's hard to read her reaction: does she recognize him, or

just find him attractive?

Will notices the gaze. The woman turns away.

Will racks his brain -- does he know this woman?

Sandra looks. After a beat, the Blonde Woman turns again,

semi-casually. Noticing that both Will and Sandra are looking,

she smiles a little before taking her cart to leave.

The Cashier turns to look. He can only get a profile as the

woman leaves.

INT. GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT

A portable fan quietly WHIRRS in the corner. Turned low, the

RADIO on the nightstand is playing a call-in AM sports show,

just a wash of background chatter. Edward lies asleep on his

back.

At the window, Josephine quietly lowers the shade. She reaches

over Edward to switch off the radio. He stirs from the silence --

he wasn't fully asleep -- and sees Josephine stretched over

him.

She smiles.

He tries to recollect, but it's already gone. Josephine

motions, is it okay for her to sit on the bed? He nods.

She shakes her head.

He sits up a bit in bed, his strength returning.

A long beat. Then, deadpan...

She nods, a bit more of a laugh.

As Edward continues, she can't help but laugh harder,

especially as the metaphors get more vulgar.

She's starting to cry from laughing.

With that, he stops. She regains her composure.

He rolls his eyes, why not.

Josephine leaves, heading down the hall to get her camera.

We STAY WITH Edward in bed.

Edward grimaces, a flash of pain. Around others, he's hiding

how much it hurts, but alone we can see how bad it is.

He controls his breathing, trying to push through it.

She returns with her camera. Edward smiles, doing a good job

masking the pain.

A devilish smile. Pushing past Edward, we settle on the

whirling fan.

SPINNING PINWHEEL

held by a LITTLE BOY. He's slumped over his FATHER's shoulder,

being carried towards a big-top tent. We are...

EXT. OLYMPIA CIRCUS - NIGHT

...where the second-rate carnival is parked for the moment

in an Alabama field. To the left, we spot Edward, 20-ish,

halfway through a bag of peanuts. He's still carrying the

backpack we saw earlier, and scratched up from his trip

through Spectre.

Joining the crowd, he heads into the big-top.

INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT

A troupe of STILT-WALKING FIREBREATHERS finishes their act

to tremendous APPLAUSE.

As the performers clear away, the circus' owner-and-ringmaster

AMOS CALLOWAY (50) approaches the stands. He may only be

four feet tall, but Amos has a titanic presence.

From behind Amos, CARNIES start rolling a massive ball towards

the crowd.

Amos comes up to a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN in the first row, a

quieter moment.

The carnies back away from the ball as a deep DRUM ROLL

begins. A moment, then the ball starts to bulge from inside.

A foot suddenly bursts out from within. GASPS from the crowd.

That foot is massive. In the stands, Edward looks closer.

Intrigued.

As the drum beat intensifies, a second foot breaks out.

Followed by hands. Shoulders. Finally, the head. This is

COLOSSUS.

From a very LOW ANGLE, we look up to see just how massive he

is. He seems to fill the Heavens. With his shaved head and

giant club, he seems more ogre than man.

In the bandstands, a YOUNG BOY's jaw drops in awe. Colossus

walks down the row, letting the crowd get a better look at

him. Some reach out to touch him, disbelieving. A tight

spotlight follows him, revealing faces in the crowd.

Colossus passes Edward, who seems unimpressed. He leans with

the spotlight, WHISTLING to get the big man's attention.

He points to the edge of the stands, where his friend is

sitting on the dirt --

KARL THE GIANT

stands up, so big the spotlight has to widen just to hold

him. He's a good foot taller than Colossus. There's a GASP

from the crowd, along with nervous anticipation -- what will

happen next?

ANGLE ON Amos, stunned, megaphone dangling.

ANGLE ON Colossus, realizing the gig is up. With a resigned

shrug, he rests his club on his shoulder and walks away into

the shadows.

INT. BIG-TOP - NIGHT / LATER

As the stands empty, Edward and Karl talk to Amos.

Karl shakes his head.

Nope.

INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

As Amos pulls Karl aside to give him the hard sell, Edward

notices a BEAUTIFUL YOUNG WOMAN (16) leaving with her family.

She's wearing a blue dress and hat. For no good reason, she

looks back at Edward.

The two make eye contact. And as they do, all motion FREEZES.

A fiery baton remains mid-twirl, flames locked in place. A

spilled box of popcorn hangs in mid-air, each kernel like a

snowflake. Even the elephant is mid-poop.

Only Edward is free to move, winding his way between the

frozen bodies, ducking underneath arms to get closer and

closer to this woman.

Suddenly, everything RUSHES. The crowd becomes a blur, and

the young woman is lost in its wake. Now it's Edward who's

frozen, helpless in time.

EXT. DIRT PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Edward checks in windows as cars pull out, searching for his

fated love. Not finding her, he becomes more frantic, running

down the rows.

THE EMPTY LOT

Colossus is thumbing for a ride. The last pickup truck stops

and lets him climb in back.

As the truck pulls out, it passes a dejected Edward. He'll

never find that girl, the love of his life.

INT. BIG-TOP - NIGHT

Amos leans over so Karl can sign a contract on his back. He

spots Edward walking back into the tent.

Amos hands off the contract to a CLOWN.

Mr. Soggybottom HONKS his horn, then waddles off.

Karl chuckles.

As Amos starts to walk away, Edward hurries to catch up with

him. Karl follows as well.

He points to the bleachers, where no backpack is to be found.

Getting in front of Amos, Edward stops him.

Amos smiles, amused.

Amos takes a long look at him. Ultimately, there's no way he

can say no. He shrugs. What the hell.

Edward shakes Amos's hand before he can retract the offer.

We move into a MONTAGE:

INT. BIG TOP CENTER RING - NIGHT

CLOSE ON Edward, smiling nervously. His head is tilted to

the side, and as we PULL BACK, we see why: he's holding it

in a MASSIVE LION's open mouth. The beast's sharp teeth are

just poking his skin. If the lion so much as flinches, Edward

is dead.

The CROWD applauds, which makes the lion antsy. Which makes

Edward antsier.

EXT. THE HYDRA - DAY

His eyes droopy from lack of sleep, Edward mans the whirling

amusement park ride.

Nodding off, Edward falls backward, into the path of the

spinning arms. One of the Hydra cars hits him square in the

gut, throwing him up and away, sailing 200 feet through the

air.

EXT. FIELD - DAY

Edward chases a costumed pig, tripping over tent cords,

falling in the mud.

His hunt leads him through the back of a tent, where he's

unwittingly stepped in front of a line of motorized birds.

To the left, CUSTOMERS are shooting with rifles. He dodges

four SHOTS that knock down the birds around him.

He catches his breath, lucky.

Then a half-blind OLD WOMAN pulls her trigger, hitting him

in the shoulder.

EXT. BEHIND A TENT - DAY

Karl the Giant bandages Edward's arm as well as he can. Amos

is walking past.

Amos stops, looks at the young man. Finally...

He walks away. We PUSH IN on Edward, enraptured by the

concept.

INT. STABLES - DAY

Edward shovels shit in the nastiest stables you've ever seen.

But all he can think about is...

The wonder of it. He goes back to shoveling, a smile on his

face.

INT. A DARK PLACE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON Edward, lost in quiet reverie, pondering his latest

bit of information.

A sudden EXPLOSION as Edward is shot...

INT. BIG TOP - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]

...out of a giant cannon.

INT. STABLES - NIGHT

Under a full moon, Edward feeds the animals.

That time had come. I couldn't wait any longer.

EXT. AMOS CALLOWAY'S TRAILER - NIGHT

Under a full moon, Edward walks up to the battered camper,

and is about to knock when he notices it's rocking. A lot.

Not just that, there's MOANING coming from inside.

But Edward KNOCKS anyway.

Suddenly, the rocking and moaning stop. A beat, then the

door handle begins to RATTLE. It seems to be stuck.

Edward turns the knob.

Suddenly, the door BURSTS OPEN. Edward is knocked down by a

massive black dog, biggest you've ever seen. It has green

glowing eyes and a lick of fire for a tongue.

Edward wrestles with the beast, its mouth snapping at his

throat.

Blocking with an arm, Edward tries to push himself free, but

the creature's hands -- it has hands instead of paws -- hold

on tight.

Entwined, they roll across the dirt. The other nearby CARNIES

scatter for cover. Mr. Soggybottom pulls a revolver out of

his clown suit. Loads a silver bullet.

Edward finally succeeds in throwing the beast off. He rolls

to his feet.

The hell hound squares back on its haunches, GROWLING, ready

for another leap. Mr. Soggybottom sheds a clown tear, aiming

the revolver at the dog.

At the last moment...

Edward moves just as Mr. Soggybottom FIRES. The bullet catches

Edward in the shoulder, knocking him down.

The carnies GASP.

Licking its chops, the dog approaches the helpless Edward,

who feels the ground around him, looking for some kind of

weapon. He finds only a small stick. He waves it at the dog,

ready to strike it.

Like magic, the dog's whole demeanor changes. It bounces

excitedly, ready to play fetch.

Seeing an opportunity, Edward throws the stick as far as he

can. The dog bounds after it,

SMASHING DOWN THREE CARS.

It returns a beat later with the flaming stick, which it

drops at Edward's feet. Its tail whips back and forth.

Edward throws the stick again. The dog takes off in a new

direction.

EXT. FIELD - PRE-DAWN

Exhausted from playing fetch all night, Edward throws the

stick into the woods. The still-spry dog goes after it. It's

gone for a long time, long enough that Edward becomes

concerned.

He follows it into the woods.

INT. WOODS - DAWN

Amos Calloway stands up behind a bush, buck naked and hairy.

He still has the stick in his mouth, which he takes out as

Edward approaches.

Edward tosses him his jacket to cover his privates.

A beat.

Edward walks away. Then starts running. He has to get there

as soon as possible.

Amos sits down and scratches his ear with his foot.

EXT. BIG TOP - DAY

Edward shakes Karl's giant hand. They hug.

EXT. AUBURN UNIVERSITY - DAY

We DESCEND ON the main quad, to find Edward Bloom dunking

his head in the fountain.

He changes out of his grubby shirt into a new one, just out

of the package. It's the mid-1960's, but by the conservative

dress of the passing STUDENTS, it could be any era.

EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - DAY

Edward stands with a bouquet of daffodils in front of a half-

open door. Through the crack we can see the edge of a YOUNG

WOMAN, talking in hushed tones with another girl we can't

see.

Finally, a decision is reached. The door opens to reveal the

woman of Edward's dreams, Sandra Kay Templeton. She's

effortlessly beautiful, pure and simple as sunlight.

He can't believe he's finally reached her. He half-laughs,

nervous. That makes her laugh, not sure what's going on.

ON SANDRA, overwhelmed. All she can finally think of to say

is...

She puts her hand on the door frame. On her left ring finger,

we see a diamond.

ON EDWARD as his heart falls 20 floors. He tries to suppress

the reaction, put on a brave front.

EXT. CREEPY OLD HOUSE - THE GATE - NIGHT

Young Don Price shines his flashlight on Edward.

VARIOUS H.S. ATHLETIC COMPETITIONS 93

Recapping earlier football, baseball and basketball

highlights, we find Edward beats Don every time.

THE STREET CORNER / ASHTON PARADE

A smoking Don Price crushes his cigarette as Edward leaves

town.

EXT/INT. SORORITY HOUSE - THE DOORWAY

Edward is dumbstruck. With all the strength he can muster...

He turns and walks down the front steps.

She stays in the doorway for a few beats, feeling genuinely

horrible for what's happened. But eventually she goes back

inside. We hear GIGGLES from inside as her sorority sisters

get to the bottom of this.

We LEAD Edward as he walks away, tears just starting to form.

He EXITS FRAME, leaving only the sorority house in the

background.

A beat. Edward steps back INTO FRAME, looking at the sorority

house.

We CIRCLE as he shouts:

INT. SORORITY HOUSE FOYER - DAY

Sandra and her SISTERS peer out through the curtains. Is

this guy crazy?

INT. LECTURE HALL - DAY

The tweedy ECONOMICS PROFESSOR continues his explanation.

Sandra isn't paying a lot of attention.

He switches on the overhead projector without looking at it.

There's a TITTER from the STUDENTS, but he doesn't notice.

A classmate nudges Sandra, who looks up. Written on the

projector is "I Love Sandra Templeton." She's horrified and

excited at the same time. The professor finally notices what's

written there.

EXT. QUAD - DAY

Walking with her books, Sandra shakes her head, disbelieving.

We look up to the blue sky, where a giant sky-written heart

floats in the wind.

INT. SANDRA'S BEDROOM - [THE NEXT] MORNING

At her Sisters' prompting, a just-woken Sandra looks out the

second-story window to find the lawn filled with

TEN THOUSAND DAFFODILS.

Edward stands amid the sea of flowers. He's waited there six

hours.

EXT. SORORITY HOUSE - DAY

Sandra walks out to him. She's smiling, confused, joyful and

scared. All down Greek Street, STUDENTS are coming out to

see the display.

Out of nowhere, a tear drops down Sandra's cheek. She wipes

it off.

From down the street...

The adult DON PRICE arrives. He's 230 pounds of football-

playing, Skynyrd-loving, fraternity-proud muscle. And he's

pissed.

A gang of his BROTHERS walk behind him.

Don Price decks him, knocking him down. Edward gets right

back up, but makes no move to defend himself.

Unfazed, Don slugs him again.

A beat. Don shrugs, fine. Then proceeds to kick Edward's ass

nine ways to Sunday.

As the ass-whupping continues, we

INT. FRATERNITY HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY [FLASHFORWARD]

Sitting on the can, Don Price pinches a loaf while reading

the new Playboy.

Don Price squeezes down hard, trying to shit the unshittable.

Suddenly, he grasps his chest and collapses face-first on

the tile.

EXT. WITCH'S HOUSE / GATE - NIGHT [FLASHBACK]

The same image of Don's dead face on the tile is reflected

in The Eye.

EXT. THE SORORITY HOUSE - DAY

The thrashing continues. Edward somehow fights his way back

to his feet, ready to be knocked down again.

Don is about to slug Edward again when he turns.

Sandra pulls off her engagement ring. There's an audible

AHH! from her sisters, and an OHH! from Don's brothers.

A beat. Don stands stunned, his mind reeling.

Edward, whose eyes are swollen almost shut, keeps waiting

for the next punch. Where is it? What's going on?

She hands him the ring. Another beat, then Don storms off.

But not before decking Edward one last time.

Sandra leans over Edward's broken body. His head lies on the

daffodils.

He smiles, his teeth bloody.

As the crowd of students APPLAUDS and CHEERS, we CRANE UP

above the flowered battlefield.

As the MUSIC reaches a crescendo, we suddenly...

INT. GUEST ROOM - NIGHT [PRESENT]

He reaches for his glass of water, but Josephine already has

it for him. She watches him while he slowly drinks the entire

glass, thirstier than he imagined. While he's drinking, we...

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - NIGHT [CONTINUOUS]

Will, back from the grocery store, reaches the top of the

stairs. He hears voices coming from the bedroom.

Will quietly approaches the door, not exactly sneaking, but

not exactly announcing his presence. The door is open a few

inches, letting him look in on his father and his wife.

INTERCUT HALLWAY / BEDROOM

He doesn't let the moment linger with undue sentimentality.

There's a story to be told.

In the hallway, Will shifts to a new position, letting himself

listen to the story one more time.

INT. HOSPITAL - DAY

Bruised and bandaged, Edward sorts through a big bag of mail

with help from Sandra. He rips open an official-looking

letter. Reading it, his face drops.

FLUTE and DRUM, music rising to a military cadence.

INT. ARMY AIRPLANE - NIGHT

With a buzz cut and paratrooper gear, Edward squats with a

dozen other SOLDIERS. The noise of the ENGINES is deafening,

but Edward is engrossed in an Asian phrasebook.

The JUMP LEADER yells...

One by one the men jump out, their chutes clipped to a main

line. When his time comes, Edward leaps...

...but he's stuck. His cord is caught up in the assembly.

He twists and struggles, trying to free himself. Looking

down, he can see the white parachutes disappearing into the

darkness. They're already long gone.

Digging a knife out of his pocket, Edward gets to work cutting

through the cable. It finally POPS. Edward jumps from the

plane.

EXT. OUTSIDE STAGE - NIGHT

A THOUSAND CHINESE SOLDIERS sit, bored, watching the

equivalent of a U.S.O. show.

A CHINESE VENTRILOQUIST is on stage with his Communist puppet.

We have no idea what they're saying to each other, but every

act is fundamentally the same.

The EMCEE comes on to usher him off the stage before he's

finished. The Ventriloquist protests, but finally gives in.

The Emcee makes a "shoot him in the neck" motion to one of

the ARMED GUARDS off-stage.

EXT. HIGH ABOVE THE STAGE - NIGHT

We LOOK DOWN with Edward, who is drifting right for the stage.

He can't steer. He's helpless.

But then, a BLAST of fireworks from the sides of the stage.

The lights go out as a DRUM ROLL begins. It's just enough

cover for Edward to remain unseen.

He lands with a CLANG on the lighting catwalk above the stage.

He barely grabs on, disconnecting his chute just as the

curtain goes up. Edward looks out at the sea of excited

soldiers. Every one of them would kill him. He's the legless

cricket left on the anthill.

EXT. ON STAGE

The curtain rises to reveal PING (27) at a microphone. She's

as gorgeous a woman as you'll ever see.

She stands with her hips turned in profile. Her body is a

knockout, dress cut to reveal skin. The soldiers are on their

feet, WHISTLING and HOLLERING.

UP ON THE CATWALK, Edward is surprised by an ENEMY SOLDIER.

The two men begin to SCUFFLE.

MUSIC starts, a vampy torch song. Ping sings melody while an

off-stage voice carries perfect harmony.

A ROAR from the soldiers. She knows what they want.

Still fighting, Edward jumps for a pole on the far side of

the catwalk, sliding down it to end up

BACKSTAGE.

His determined opponent follows him down.

The soldiers ROAR LOUDER, STOMPING on the bleachers.

Backstage, the two men are still fighting.

For the first time, Ping turns, and now we see why she was

standing in profile. Ping is one-half of

SIAMESE TWINS.

Her identical twin is JING, who's been singing harmony all

this time. They are two separate women who join at the waist,

one set of perfect legs beneath them.

Edward sees the twins from behind, does a double-take. It

costs him a punch to the jaw.

As the MUSIC builds towards the climax, Edward finishes the

fight, knocking the guard out with a right hook.

As Ping and Jing reach the last chorus, they strike a final

pose in the shape of a heart, their arms forming the arches,

their backs forming the curves.

Edward slips behind curtains, trying to get away.

The soldiers are SHOUTING for an encore, lighters waving.

The curtain slowly lowers, revealing

EDWARD'S PARACHUTE.

The APPLAUSE dies, replaced by a concerned RUMBLE. The Emcee

yells for the Guards to search.

ON STAGE

Ping has no idea what's happening. Jing reaches into her

cleavage to pull out her eyeglasses.

INT. DRESSING ROOM - NIGHT

As ARMED GUARDS search the halls below the stage, Ping and

Jing shut the door to their dressing room. At the closet,

they start to change outfits. Off-stage, their personalities

become quite apparent: Ping is brash, bitchy and ambitious,

while Jing is quiet, sweet and bookish.

In Chinese, subtitled...

Ping HUFFS, turning her back on her sister.

Jing reaches deeper into the closet to find a new dress,

exposing Edward's hiding place. She GASPS. Ping turns to

look.

Jing grabs her, a hand over her mouth, but it's too late. A

rifle-toting GUARD looks in.

Pretending to be her bitchy sister --

The guard obeys. Ping shakes her sister off. Desperately

flipping through his Asian phrasebook, he finds...

Edward pulls a photo out of his flak jacket. It's Sandra.

VARIOUS SHOTS

Hearing the story, Jing wipes away a tear. Even Ping is a

little affected.

Still subtitled:

EXT. TEMPLETON FAMILY HOUSE - DAY

Sandra checks the mail, hoping for a letter from Edward.

A black car pulls up. Two ARMY OFFICERS get out.

Hearing the news, Sandra CRIES OUT. The pain of her shout

makes church bells RING.

EXT. BEHIND THE TEMPLETON HOUSE - DAY

Sandra hangs sheets to dry on the clotheslines, forming a

tunnel of fabric.

Pulling a dress out of the basket, Sandra looks up to see

A MAN'S SILHOUETTE

on the sheet in front of her. She freezes, watching the shadow

ripple across the white fabric, blowing so softly in the

breeze. She knows it can't be him. He's dead.

She turns away. With all the strength she can gather, she

hangs up that dress and digs another one out of the basket.

Looking up, she sees not a shadow but Edward himself standing

before her. She GASPS, disbelieving, but his hand is real.

It is destiny.

Without another moment's hesitation, she kisses him.

BRIGHT SUNLIGHT

filters through soft sheets. We're under the covers, where a

man's hand traces the curves of a woman's bare back. A beat,

then she turns over in bed, revealing her to be

JOSEPHINE.

She blinks slowly, just waking up. Will is watching her.

He's been up for a while. We are actually...

INT. WILL AND JOSEPHINE'S ROOM - DAY

...where the couple stays cocooned under the sheets, a kind

of limbo. A kiss good morning. Legs entangling. Neither wants

to get up.

A look to say, should I be worried?

A beat.

He moves his head out from under the sheet. She follows him

to the "outside."

Will doesn't want to answer yes or no.

Off her silence...

INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

The family finishes eating breakfast off TV trays set up

around the bed. For his part, Edward is looking better.

Certainly not recovered, but there's an optimism to his

expression. And for the first time, he's actually hungry.

He watches as Sandra puts the cap back on the syrup.

Edward is startled.

A beat.

Sandra SNAPS the cap back on the syrup.

Both women quickly gather plates.

Will and Edward both smile. The women clearly want this to

happen. It settles for a beat after they leave.

Edward looks away, angry and disbelieving.

Finally --

EXT. BACKYARD - DAY

With a skimmer pole, Will cleans the leaves and debris out

of the pool, but it's a fool's errand. The pool has long

since gone native, a shiny slick of algae on the surface,

slime covering the cemented rocks.

Suddenly, an underwater shape RIPPLES against the water's

surface. Will is so startled that he drops the pole, which

disappears into the murky water.

A beat. He looks around, relieved that no one saw that. He

casually walks away.

INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY

The doors open to reveal Sandra, Will and Josephine, staring

into the mouth of oblivion. The storeroom is a museum of

hasty decisions and half-finished projects: partially built

outboard motors, dead bonsai trees, Frankensteinian

lawnmowers. We also find boxes of products Edward used to

sell.

Clearing a path, Sandra leads Will to a roll-top desk, its

ribs covered in dust. Two beaten metal file cabinets sit

beside it.

With some effort, Will forces up the desktop. With a HISS, a

neighbor's cat makes a run for it. Will's getting used to

being startled.

INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY [LATER]

Will, Sandra and Josephine have worked through two trash

bags of papers to throw out. Looking through a new file,

Sandra makes a small sound. A memory.

Sandra hands Will a yellowed telegram. He shares it with

Josephine.

Will can't believe what he's reading.

A beat, then Sandra stands.

Josephine kisses him, then follows Sandra. Will re-reads the

telegram, still bewildered.

Looking for a place to put it, he tucks it into a strange

mechanical hand on the desk. It clamps down automatically.

Will smiles, a memory. He hasn't thought about this device

in years. We slowly PUSH IN on the telegram, held in the

hand.

Edward's VOICE begins as a memory...

INT. DOWNTOWN OFFICE - DAY [STORY]

Edward shakes hands with his new boss, a TOUPEED MAN. The

company is called "Confederated Products." The OFFICE LADIES

all love Edward.

EXT. COUNTY FAIR - DAY [STORY]

On a low platform, Edward pitches a brilliant new product to

the crowd.

Edward sets down a contraption, which looks something like a

metal lava lamp. Like a flower, it unfolds to reveal five

fingers and a thumb. This is the Hand Around the House.(TM)

QUICK MONTAGE as he demonstrates:

Indeed, a remarkably agile Edward is able to support his

entire weight on it. The crowd APPLAUDS.

The hand points a finger at an HEAVYSET MAN IN OVERALLS.

The crowd LAUGHS.

EXT. A COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

Edward drives, his hand out in the wind.

EXT. TRAILER PARK - DAY

Edward kisses his pregnant wife goodbye, as much in love as

ever.

EXT. HORIZON SAVINGS & LOAN - DAY

Establishing this Texas institution, we come...

INT. HORIZON SAVINGS & LOAN - DAY

The bank is busy with the lunch-hour crowd. Taking his place

in line, Edward fills out a deposit slip.

As the line snakes around through the ropes, the man in front

of him gets a look at Edward.

The man is none other than...

The men shake, disbelieving this lucky coincidence.

He's genuinely proud.

Reaching the front of the line, Norther pulls two pistols

out of his coat, FIRING both into the ceiling.

SCREAMS all around. The skinny SECURITY GUARD makes a

halfhearted reach for his gun, but Norther waves him off.

The guard takes out his gun and slides it over.

There's nothing threatening about his delivery -- he might

as well be asking for a Budweiser. Still, Edward senses it

would be best to do as he says. He takes the guard's gun.

The TELLER WOMAN nods.

ANGLE ON Edward, not sure what to do. He has a gun, but he

truly doesn't want to shoot Norther. The Teller Woman is

already waving him to the back.

He decides he better go.

INT. AT THE VAULT - DAY

The Teller Woman is crying as she works the combination.

Edward feels horrible.

She pulls open the vault door.

INT. THE VAULT - DAY

The inner sanctum of the Horizon Savings and Loan holds

exactly one folding chair. Nothing else.

INT. EDWARD'S CAR - DAY

Edward drives the getaway car, though truthfully they're

going just a little over the speed limit. No one's following

them. It's an empty country road for miles.

Norther HOLLERS with body-tingling joy as he counts the money.

Edward winces, but doesn't say anything yet. Digging through

the vault bag, Norther is surprised to find only a single

deposit envelope. He rips it open, revealing just a little

cash inside. Even some dimes and pennies.

Caught, Edward has to confess...

Edward continues his narration...

Hearing this news, Norther was left with one conclusion:

EXT. TEXAS ROAD - DAY

Norther leans in the driver's side window.

Edward looks over at Norther, the reality sinking in.

The two men wave at each other as Edward drives off. At the

last moment, Norther calls out:

He's talking about his Hand Around the House. We HOLD ON

Norther for a beat, dreaming of his future.

EXT. BLOOM HOUSE [MID/LATE '70'S] - DAY

Sandra is watering the garden. Will (5) runs past her to

greet Edward, just returned from another trip.

We reveal the Bloom house, the nicest one in the neighborhood.

Edward kisses his wife.

Sandra drops the hose, letting it run on the lawn.

INT. BLOOM HOUSE BATHROOM - DAY [PRESENT]

CLOSE ON Edward's hand as he turns knobs.

CLOSE ON water SPLASHING into the claw-foot bathtub, which

begins to fill.

Still wearing his pajamas, Edward climbs into the tub.

Carefully lowers himself.

As the water reaches the third button up on his pajama shirt,

Edward suddenly slides

UNDERWATER.

Bubbles rise from his nose for a few beats, then stop. It's

quiet, except for the distant SPLASHING of water from the

spigot. Edward's eyes are closed.

A long beat. Another. Then the SPLASHING water goes silent.

Edward opens one eye. The other eye. He sits up to find

SANDRA

sitting on the edge of the tub. She doesn't seem particularly

worried -- her husband has always done this.

He smiles, then pulls his knees up, making room for her in

the tub. A beat while she considers.

Sandra steps out of her sandals and climbs into the tub,

facing him. Her dress is soaked, but she doesn't mind.

He leans forward and kisses her. When they separate, she has

tears hanging in her eyes.

He wipes them away.

INT. BASEMENT STORAGE AREA - DAY

Perched awkwardly on a canoe, Will's made it through another

file cabinet. He goes through the folders page by page, but

usually ends up tossing the whole thing in the trash.

He's about to toss a file when he stops. Takes another look.

Something doesn't make sense.

INT. BLOOM HOUSE / STAIRS - DAY

Will is headed upstairs when his mother comes around the

corner with an armful of laundry, including her wet dress.

She passes him. He turns.

Will quickly debates whether or not to ask her...

Will nods, just curious. He continues heading up.

INT. WILL AND JOSEPHINE'S ROOM - DAY

Will changes his shirt. Takes his keys off the nightstand.

EXT. COUNTY ROAD - DAY

Will's rental car drives past a sign reading, "Ashton, 10

miles."

INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING

Will checks the address on one of his father's files.

EXT. ASHTON GAS - DAY

Will talks to the ATTENDANT, who points him in a direction,

then gestures a series of left, right, left, rights.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Will drives down a road that seems somewhat familiar. And

then we realize why: a roadsign reads "Welcome to Spectre!"

EXT. A LONE HOUSE - DAY

Sitting at the edge of a swamp, the little two-story feels

lonely, set deep in its lot. Dapples of light break through

the trees, a light breeze swaying the branches.

As Will walks from the car, the WHIRR of cicadas grows. He

checks the number: 33. This is the house. It is surrounded

by a white square-picket fence, identical to his mother's.

Will notices this.

Reaching the porch, we hear a PIANO playing inside. Badly.

Re-checking the number on a form he's carrying, Will KNOCKS.

The piano stops.

The piano starts again. FOOTSTEPS.

The door opens to reveal a blonde woman in her 50's -- the

woman from the grocery store. Her name is Jenny Hill.

She and Will are startled to see each other.

Confused, Will checks the name on the form.

The PIANO STUDENT, a black boy of eight, has stopped. He's

watching the conversation at the door. Speaking of awkward...

She hands him five dollars out of her pocket.

You don't have to tell him twice. He's out the door in a

flash.

INT. JENNY'S KITCHEN - DAY

While Will sips his iced tea, Jenny flips through a form she

never expected to see again. She hands it back to Will.

A beat. Not flinching...

She moves, trying to get out of the corner he's boxed her

into. Once she's finally free...

A long beat. Jenny is taken back by the suddenness of it.

She's a tangle of conflicting emotions.

Fair enough. Jenny takes a seat across from him at the table.

INT. EDWARD'S CAR / DRIVING - NIGHT

It's late, and Edward is pensive.

The first raindrops hit the windshield. Edward turns on the

wipers.

INT. EDWARD'S CAR - NIGHT - [THE STORM]

Suddenly, a deluge descends. It's not even rain anymore --

there's no space between the drops. It's like being caught

in a waterfall. It's that loud.

No choice, Edward stops the car. Puts on the handbrake. Just

as suddenly, the sound changes -- no longer pounding, but

softly SPLASHING. The world is close and echoing, because --

EXT. EDWARD'S CAR - NIGHT

-- the car is underwater. The tires are still on the road,

but where there used to be air is water.

Three catfish swim in front of his headlights.

INT. THE CAR - NIGHT

Realizing his plight, Edward tries to remain calm. Water is

trickling in through the crack between the window and the

door, but very slowly. For now, he's fine.

That's when he sees her -- The Girl in the River.

She's swimming outside the car. While we never see her face

exactly, she remains just as beautiful, just as mysterious,

as the first time we saw her.

She puts her hand to the windshield. He puts his up to meet

hers. And smiles.

EXT. FIELD BY DIRT ROAD - DAY

It's morning, and the sun shines brightly. Birds CHIRP. Trees

drip and the grass shines, still wet from last night's rain.

Edward gathers the clothes that have spilled out of his

suitcase, which broke open when he dropped it from

HIS CAR,

which balances precariously ten feet up in an elm tree. As

Edward gathers his last pair of socks, he notices a shiny

piece of metal sticking out of the dirt. He pulls it out,

rubs it off.

It's a key. It's the Key to the City he lost years ago.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Carrying his busted suitcase, a tired Edward walks toward a

one-street town in the distance. We pass a rusty sign...

EXT. MAIN STREET - DAY

Amazed and disbelieving, Edward walks down the center of the

road, no cars coming from either direction. He looks up to

find his faded shoes still dangling from the power line,

along with the rest of the town's.

EXT. TOWN OF SPECTRE - VARIOUS SHOTS

We look around the town, on and off Main Street. There are

"FOR SALE" signs in many of the windows

EXT. SPECTRE - DAY

We slowly MOVE THROUGH a foreclosure auction to find Edward

watching. Two very corporate MEN IN SUITS, stick out among

the bidders.

Edward raises his hand.

Everyone turns to look at this new bidder.

INT. NORTHER WINSLOW'S MANHATTAN - DAY

Edward pitches his plan to Norther.

INT./EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS - DAY

VARIOUS SHOTS: Expressive and passionate as always, Edward

talks to Ping, Jing and Amos Calloway.

As Edward takes notes...

INT. AL'S COUNTRY - DAY

Finishing up with AL, Edward shakes hands.

EXT. ROAD IN THE SWAMP - DAY

Edward climbs out of his car, the road having literally

stopped. The sun is shining, but it can barely penetrate the

trees' thick canopy.

In the distance, he sees a shack, so old it's nearly fallen.

He walks toward it, the marshy ground SQUISHING up around

his feet, soaking the hems of his trousers.

We hear a PIANO playing from inside the shack. Edward KNOCKS

on the half-hung door, which swings open by itself.

INT. SHACK - DAY

The inside is nicer than you'd think, a real home. A fire

burns in the stove, and curtains hang in the windows.

With her back turned to him, Jenny Hill plays the piano.

Edward doesn't recognize her as the little girl who used to

have a crush on him. Without turning, she says...

She keeps PLAYING.

Jenny stops playing, her piece not quite finished. She turns

to face him. Edward still doesn't recognize her.

Strange to hear it put that way, but --

A long beat.

He looks at her, puzzled and surprised. No one has really

asked before.

She finally turns to face him.

EXT. SPECTRE - NIGHT

Young Jenny Hill watches barefoot Edward leave Spectre for

the first time.

INT. SHACK - DAY

Finally realizing who this woman is...

Before he can say anything more...

A bit bewildered, Edward tips his hat to her as he leaves.

EXT/INT. SWAMP SHACK - DAY

Edward pulls the door shut behind him as he leaves, but it

breaks off in his hands. It's not the clean exit he was hoping

for.

Inside Jenny looks out, surprised and annoyed.

Edward tries to lift the door back on the hinges, but they

SNAP off. The door frame buckles and the whole shack CREAKS.

He tries to lean the door against the frame, but it keeps

slipping.

He leans the door a different way. It holds for a beat then

falls in, SMASHING a small table.

She's dead serious. Weighing the scales of chivalry, he

finally backs away. Turns and heads back towards his car.

We STAY ON Jenny, watching him go. She's furious, but there's

something more in her feelings for him. Something softer.

EXT. SWAMP SHACK ROAD - ANOTHER DAY

With Karl the Giant's help, Edward unloads a brand new door

from a pickup truck.

EXT. SHACK - DAY

While Jenny watches, half-annoyed, half-amused, Edward tries

to set the door square. Karl pushes against the side of the

house until it fits.

INT. SHACK - ANOTHER DAY

Holding nails between his lips, Edward puts in new windows

himself. Jenny is making soup, laughing at the story he's

telling.

EXT. SWAMP - ANOTHER DAY

Edward and Karl cut down a tree, letting in a flood of light.

Through the golden pollen hanging in the air, we RISE UP to

see the shack is now

THE LOVELY HOUSE

we saw before. It's tiny and white, with black shutters and

a steep roof. A white picket fence. In every detail it is

impossibly charming.

INT. JENNY'S HOUSE - DAY

Edward is screwing a hat rack into the wall in the foyer.

Jenny leans against the doorframe listening to his story.

And watching him with deepest affection.

Finished with his work, he takes his hat off the chair and

hangs it on the rack. Perfect.

A beat. A look between them. With that last job done, there's

no reason for him to be staying any longer.

He takes his hat off the rack.

A beat. Does she really mean it?

She comes closer. Edward holds his ground. She takes his

hand, lifting his hat up to the peg. She's very close --

just a half-inch from kissing him when --

-- Edward gently holds her back.

She freezes, stunned and humiliated. She pulls away.

With that, he begins to leaves.

She finds a pen and hastily signs the deed to the house.

Hands it to him. With a look, he thanks her. Then goes.

EXT. SPECTRE - MAGIC HOUR

Edward takes a final look at this perfect little town.

He climbs in his car and starts the engine.

EXT. JENNY HILL'S HOUSE - DAY TO NIGHT

As we watch, the swamp begins to overtake the house,

swallowing it in a tangle of vines and mossy branches.

Shoots burst up through the planks in the porch. Snakes

slither through the marsh.

Day becomes night.

We REVERSE to find FOUR KIDS looking in through the rusty

iron gate with flashlights. A beat, then they run away.

INT. JENNY HILL'S KITCHEN - PRESENT DAY

Will and Jenny are still sitting at her table, a pitcher of

iced tea between them.

Will smiles to hear it called that.

Her composure is starting to break.

A long beat, both staring at their iced tea. Jenny is working

herself into more of a state by not talking.

She's fighting tears, not the first ones she's shed over

this.

ANGLE ON Will, sorting through his swirling thoughts.

INT. WILL'S CAR - DAY / DRIVING

Will skips through the stations on the radio, but ultimately

turns it off. He's trying to think.

EXT. BLOOM HOUSE - DUSK

Will walks up the front steps. There's a subtle change to

his expression, a dark cloud lifted. He unlocks the door.

INT. BLOOM HOUSE FOYER - DUSK

It's half-dark and quiet in the house, no talking, no TV.

Will sets his keys on the table.

INT. KITCHEN - DUSK

Will looks in. Empty.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DUSK

We follow Will, looking into his and Josephine's room. He

aims for the guest room at the end of the hall.

INT. GUEST ROOM - DUSK

Looking over his shoulder, we see his father's bed is empty.

The sheets are in a tangle on the floor.

A beat, then Will half-runs back down the hall. Back down

the stairs.

INT. FOYER - DUSK

Headed out, Will grabs his keys off the table. We LOOK RIGHT,

where the "MESSAGE" light blinks on the answering machine.

INT. HOSPITAL ENTRANCE - NIGHT

The hospital is so new, it's not even finished -- thick

plastic hangs from exposed framing. There's no one at the

information desk, so Will forges ahead.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT

Will reads a directory board, trying to decide the best place

to start. Then, behind him --

He turns to see his wife at a payphone. She hangs up. She

was calling him.

A beat. How can she answer?

He half-smiles, realizing the idiocy of his question. Of

course his father's not going to be okay.

She cuts him off --

And like that, it's done. We HOLD ON Will, reeling from the

news.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Edward sleeps peacefully, just an oxygen tube under his nose.

There are no beeping monitors, no blinking lights. It's

mercifully quiet.

Sandra squeezes Will's hand tightly. She's holding herself

together, but it's been a tough day.

Dr. Bennett has just gone through the details for the third

time.

A beat.

A nod, then Will holds the door for Dr. Bennett and Josephine

as they leave. Sandra is alone in the room with her husband.

She neatens his hair. Holds his hand. As she kisses his

fingers, she tweaks her chin with them -- his signature move.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - NIGHT

Sandra waits outside the women's restroom. Her face is a

study in strained composure -- acknowledging the inevitable

but refusing to surrender to it.

Josephine emerges.

The two women start to walk, no hurry.

Sandra has accidentally evoked a storm of emotion. She

struggles to keep it in check. Almost a whisper...

With a few breaths, Sandra tries to hold on. Hold back.

A beat, then Sandra finally melts. Josephine holds her. The

two women stand together in the hallway, letting the moment

be.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - NIGHT

Will sits in a chair beside the bed, working through the

crossword puzzle. A KNOCK as Dr. Bennett enters with his

overcoat and bag, ready to leave for the night.

Dr. Bennett smiles as he checks Edward's chart.

Tables turned, Will searches for an answer. He doesn't have

one.

Dr. Bennett hangs the chart back on the bed.

A long silence, just the sounds of the hospital, doctors

being paged.

Will half-smiles.

Patting Will's shoulder, Dr. Bennett leaves. We STAY ON Will

and his father for a long time, then Will takes his pen and

starts making a list.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - VARIOUS SHOTS

Will flips to a new page. The list keeps getting longer.

He smiles, remembering something. On his fourth page, he

looks up at his motionless father. A beat, then we slowly

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - PRE-DAWN

It's very early morning, and the first blue light of day is

glowing through the vertical blinds. Still in his chair,

Will wakes up a bit at a time. The notepad is on his lap,

the pen in his hand.

He cracks his neck, crooked from sleeping on it wrong. What

woke him up?

He looks to his right. Holds his gaze for a breath.

His father is awake, silently GASPING for breath. His eyes

are open, scared and confused.

Edward shakes his head unambiguously. Will already has his

finger on the orange "nurse call" button, but doesn't push

it.

Edward nods. Will pours a glass from the pitcher on the

nightstand. He holds it to his father's lips, but Edward

won't drink. He pushes it away. He wanted something else.

It takes Edward all his strength to put together each thought.

It's like he's only half-there, fighting to hang on to this

world.

ON WILL, realizing...

Edward nods. Yes, that's what he was trying to say.

A long beat.

Will pushes his fingers under his father's heavy hand, and

holds it. There's nothing else to do.

Edward looks around, confused and increasingly scared. He

sees the end approaching, but doesn't know exactly what's

coming. Without the story, he's lost.

Fighting the urge to panic --

Will looks around the room, increasingly desperate. He looks

to the nurse call button. He really wants to press it.

ON EDWARD, waiting for Will to begin.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY [STORY VERSION]

It's dawn, and the first golden glow is shining through the

vertical blinds.

We LOOK OVER to find a nimble Edward sitting up in bed,

combing his hair.

But Edward throws back the covers.

Will heads for the bathroom. Sure enough, the wheelchair is

there.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY

With the blanket draped over his head like a ghost, Edward

points for his son to steer the wheelchair thataway.

They pass a HEAVYSET NURSE, who turns to look.

Rounding a corner, they nearly crash into Dr. Bennett.

Before he can answer, Will spots Edward rolling the chair

himself, pumping both arms. Will dashes to catch up with

him.

The Heavyset Nurse leans out of Edward's hospital room.

DOWN THE HALL

At the elevators, Sandra and Josephine step out to find Will

and Edward barreling straight at them.

Seeing SECURITY GUARDS heading their way, a quick-thinking

Sandra shoves a nearby cart into them, bowling them down.

INT. ELEVATOR - DAY

Will brakes hard, sliding with both feet. The chair nearly

crashes into the back wall as the doors close.

EXT. PARKING LOT - DAY

Will races Edward down the row, finally reaching the

Chevrolet.

AT THE CAR

Will lifts his father out of the chair.

Will sets him in the passenger seat.

Scrambling in back, Will finds a liter of Arrowhead. Hands

it off. Edward unscrews the cap, but instead of drinking it,

he douses himself. Soaks the blanket.

Will pops the trunk. Starts to fold up the wheelchair.

TIRES SMOKE as the car peals out.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY [REALITY]

TIGHT ON Will, trying to hold back tears as he talks.

TIGHT ON Edward, enjoying that detail. He's focused completely

on Will's story.

EXT. GLENVILLE BLVD. - DAY [STORY VERSION]

The Chevy slaloms through the Sunday-morning traffic.

INT. CHEVY - DAY

Will stops short, the traffic backed up. He HONKS, trying to

get around the jam. But it's no use.

Then, up ahead, the cars start moving, shoved aside by massive

hands. It's Karl the Giant, clearing a path by brute force.

Edward leans out the window and waves. Karl waves back.

EXT. ASHTON RIVER - DAY

The same stretch of the river where it all began. A CROWD of

more than 100 waiting.

Amos Calloway is here with the circus folk, including Mr.

Soggybottom. We also find Edward's Mother and Father, the

Mayor, and many others from along the way. No one has aged a

day since we saw them last.

While Ping scans the horizon, Jing nuzzles with her boyfriend,

Norther Winslow. It's Ping who first spots the Chevrolet.

The crowd CHEERS. The Ashton marching band PLAYS. Jenny Hill

smiles. So does the Old Woman.

We PUSH IN on the Old Woman's glass eye, where we see...

YOUNG EDWARD

reflected. This is what he saw.

INT. THE CHEVROLET - DAY

Amazed, Will turns to his father.

EXT. RIVERSIDE - DAY

Will gets out of the Chevrolet, overwhelmed by the crowd.

Behind him, Sandra, Josephine and Dr. Bennett pull up. Karl

comes just after that.

Crossing to the passenger side, Will lifts his father out.

Strangely, he's gotten even lighter. Will carries him easily.

Edward pulls off his shoes, tying the laces together. He

hands them to Josephine. She throws them up at the powerline.

They loop over. APPLAUSE and CHEERS.

The crowd parts to let Will and Edward get to the river. As

he passes, Edward shakes some hands, pats some people on the

cheek, and gives others a good poke in the ribs.

Will walks into the river, up to his knees. He turns back so

his father can face the crowd. Edward waves.

But one face is missing from the crowd -- Sandra. Will turns

to see she's already standing in the river beside them.

The reflection of the light off the water gives Sandra an

unearthly glow. She's more tranquil and more beautiful than

we've ever seen her.

She kisses him. He tweaks her chin. The crowd HOLLERS in

approval, but their moment remains strangely private. Only

Will is there to witness.

As the kiss ends, Edward tries to pull off his wedding ring.

But it's stuck. Finally, he sucks on it, pulling it free

with his teeth.

A look to Will, a smile with a glint of gold. Will takes the

ring out of his mouth.

Edward suddenly drops out of Will's arms with a SPLASH. For

he's no longer a man, but rather

A FAT CATFISH

swimming at his feet.

We watch as the catfish circles, then heads for deeper water,

disappearing.

Will and his mother stand knee-deep in the water, watching

Edward Bloom swim away into the sunlight. Josephine is back

on the shore, along with the entire crowd.

MUSIC BUILDS to a climax, then...

Down the river, a GIANT FISH suddenly jumps out of the water,

cutting a beautiful arc across the sunset. It then dives

back under with a SPLASH.

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM - DAY

Will has tears hanging in the corners of his eyes.

Edward smiles, proud of both of them. His eyes are so pale

and so open, we can almost see his soul. In every atom of

his body, in every thought, Edward Bloom is entirely happy.

And this is how he goes.

INT. HOSPITAL HALLWAY - DAY

Will shuts the door to his father's room behind him. The

walk to the payphones seems to take a lifetime.

He finds a quarter, starts to dial. He has to squint to see

through the water in his eyes. It's ringing. And ringing.

The other end answers.

That's all he can get out before the dam breaks inside him.

He presses closer to the phone, trying to shield himself.

MUSIC begins that will carry us through the next passage.

INT. HOSPITAL RECEPTION - DAY

Will waits at reception as Sandra and Josephine come off the

elevator.

INT. GUEST ROOM - DAY

Josephine opens the curtains, letting white sunlight in. She

strips the bed.

INT. BEDROOM - DAY

Will and his mother pick out one of Edward's ties, for Will

to wear at the funeral. Will tries to button the cuffs on

the shirt he borrowed, but they're the kind that need links.

He goes through the top drawer of the dresser, trying to

find a matching pair. Further down, he finds a ribbon tied

to

THE KEY TO THE CITY.

He smiles, disbelieving. It's a real thing.

EXT. CEMETERY / ROAD - DAY

Will helps his mother out of a black sedan. She's well-

composed, not nearly the wreck we might have expected.

Josephine hugs Dr. Bennett and shakes hands with his WIFE.

The service is crowded, more than 200 people, many more than

expected.

As his mother talks to a WELL-WISHER, Will looks left to see

an Oldsmobile parking.

CLOSE ON the license plates. Missouri.

The passenger side opens, but the man who steps out is barely

visible over the door. He shuts it to reveal himself to be

70.

It's Amos Calloway. Will doesn't recognize him.

The Driver climbs out, a size 15 foot on the gravel. We TILT

UP to see this man is huge.

This man is KARL, now 55. He's not 12 feet tall, but at least

six-eight.

CLOSE ON Will, bewildered to see that this man really exists.

EXT. CEMETERY / GRAVESIDE - DAY

As the service gets ready to begin, Will guides his mother

to a seat near the grave.

Sitting beside Will, Josephine spots a stunning ASIAN WOMAN

(50) behind them. A beat later, an identical face with glasses

peers out -- the woman's twin sister.

It's PING and JING.

Josephine almost GASPS. She elbows Will, who turns to look.

From this angle the sisters seem conjoined, but then Jing

steps forward. They're really two separate people.

A sea of familiar faces, all of them aged through the years:

BEAMEN, NORTHER WINSLOW, the MAYOR, and ZACKY PRICE.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY [LATER]

After the service, we see the crowd gathered in small groups.

By the LAUGHTER and hand gestures, we can see they're telling

stories. They're telling Edward's stories.

We find Will watching them.

Will joins in, laughing.

We slowly CIRCLE BEHIND a monument, letting it black out the

screen.

EXT. BLOOM HOUSE BACKYARD - DAY [SUMMER]

Will sits on the porch with Sandra and Josephine, watching

his SON play in the pool with two NEIGHBOR KIDS.

Will smiles as his son continues the tale, which FADES. Sandra

takes Will's hand in hers, just listening.

EXT. RIVER / UNDERWATER - DAY

A fat and happy catfish swims towards us.

The fish passes us with a SPLASH.

CUT TO BLACK.

