A civilization is destroyed only when its gods are destroyed.

EXT. FOREST - DAWN

Bare as all hell. The trees stripped of their bark and white

like ghosts. Some torn violently from their roots and felled.

STARK GRAY SUNLIGHT shafts between the trees, clouded by a

creeping fog that obscures the true color of everything. A

LIGHT SNOW flutters. The world monochrome, lifeless and cold.

A CAT prowls across the dead earth. Barely recognizable as

the domestic breed it might once have been. Its fur mangy and

rank, body rib-thin from starvation. Entirely feral.

It moves slowly, cautiously. Sniffing the air, scanning the

forest, alert. Trusting nothing of its surroundings. It paces

across a leaf-strewn clearing, closing stealthily on:

A DEAD MAN, splayed face-down in the earth. His feet bare.

Face frozen in a grim death mask. A GAPING GUNSHOT WOUND in

his head, the dried blood caked around it matting his hair.

As the cat moves closer, approaching warily:

P.O.V. FROM ACROSS THE CLEARING

About thirty yards away. Someone is watching. Waiting. SLOW,

DEEP BREATHS, heard through a GASMASK RESPIRATOR.

CLOSE ON A PAIR OF INDUSTRIAL GOGGLES

The MIRRORED LENSES reflecting the forest clearing, locked

onto the cat. The slow, metered breathing continues.

THE CAT slows, but continues pacing toward the corpse. More

cautious than ever. It inches forward, sniffing at the body.

ON THE WATCHER. Crouched behind the mangled stump of a felled

tree. Concealed beneath a camouflaging mesh of leaves, twigs

and bracken. A "ghillie suit" of the kind used by snipers.

THE CAT sniffs at the dead man's hand, frozen by death in a

grotesquely contorted claw. The animal still unsure. Looks

around again, checking its surroundings for predators.

THE WATCHER moves almost imperceptibly. The leaves covering

him rustle ever so slightly as we hear - just barely - the

familiar creaking sound of a BOW STRING BEING DRAWN TAUT.

THE CAT hears it. Looks up, alert. Staring right at the

watcher, but he is too well camouflaged to be seen. An

interminable, tense BEAT - is the prey going to flee?

Finally, the cat turns its attention back to the carcass,

nibbling gingerly at the flesh of the man's fingers.

THE WATCHER looses the arrow. It sails across the clearing

and SKEWERS THE CAT clean through. It drops to the ground.

THE WATCHER STANDS, shaking off the ghillie suit, revealing

him to us for the first time.

He wears a weather-beaten knee-length duster. Hooded sweater

with more layers beneath that. Torn pants and scuffed work

boots. Everything filthy and battered from years of wear.

Along with the goggles, his face remains obscured by a

DISPOSABLE PAPER DUST MASK and a CRUDELY-FASHIONED FUR HAT

with dangling ear flaps that may once itself have been a cat.

Around his neck he wears a silver SAINT CHRISTOPHER PENDANT

hanging from a frayed twine cord.

His name is ELI.

He shoulders the bow and walks across the clearing. Crouches

beside the dead cat and pulls out the arrow. Wipes the blood

from the shaft, then reaches down to collect the body.

Suddenly the cat SCREECHES AND FLAILS WILDLY! Eli recoils,

falling backward, stunned, as the cat - MORTALLY WOUNDED BUT

FIGHTING TO THE DEATH - bites and claws desperately at him.

Eli struggles violently with the cat, wrestling it to the

ground and grabbing up a HUNK OF FALLEN BRANCH. He holds the

writhing animal down and CLUBS IT until it lays still.

He sits back, breathing harder than the dustmask will allow.

He yanks it down, revealing the dirty, unshaven face beneath.

Impossible to tell his age, but certainly not a young man.

For a moment he just sits there. Then bundles up the dead cat

and returns to the mangled tree stump. Folds away his ghillie

suit into a nearby RUCKSACK which he hauls up onto his back.

A canteen dangles from the backpack, a SHOTGUN strapped to

its side. Eli reaches down for his final possession - an old

SAMURAI SWORD in a scabbard which he slings across his back.

He gazes up at the sky. A snowflake drifts down and lands on

his cheek. He reaches up and brushes it away, leaving a BLACK

SMEAR on his face. Not snow after all, but some kind of ASH.

EXT. FOREST ROAD - DAY

Eli emerges from the treeline onto the cracked and ruptured

asphalt. Lined by more of those ghostly, stripped-bare trees.

He sniffs the air, breathing it in. Checks the road in both

directions. Deserted. A few yards away is the rusted, burned-

out chassis of a CAR. He heads toward it.

The car rests half on the road, half in the adjacent ditch.

Stripped of its tires and engine. In the driver's seat is a

MUMMIFIED BODY. A BULLET HOLE piercing its forehead.

Eli regards the body dispassionately. Tries the door handle

but it's jammed. He yanks on it harder and eventually

wrenches it open. He leans in and checks the man's feet.

They're bare. No shoes or socks. Eli curses under his breath.

He leaves the car behind and heads on down the road. As he

walks away, we see that the sole of one of his boots has worn

loose, held in place now only by a rubber band.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Eli continues down the road. He ambles along slowly, a man in

no hurry. A man who has been walking a long time.

The road has since emerged from the forest. Passing now

through a wasteland of dead scrub brush and urban junk.

The sun beats down from directly overhead. The sky has no

color to it, paper-white. The unfiltered sun's stark light

leaves everything seeming bleached-out, over-exposed.

CRANE UP as Eli walks on. On the horizon is the silhouette of

a CITY. Or what was once a city. Columns of BLACK SMOKE rise

from within, casting a deathly pall over the skyline. BURNED

AND BROKEN SKYSCRAPERS jut out like tombstones.

Eli reaches a fork in the road and stops. The road he's on

appears to wind off in the direction of the ruined city on

the horizon. The other fork continues on into the wasteland.

After a brief pause, Eli changes direction and heads off down

the other fork, away from the city.

EXT. ABANDONED TOWN - DAY

Little more than a main street lined with storefronts. Eli

walks steadily along, side-stepping rubble and debris.

Ignoring the petrified corpses lying in the street.

He passes by abandoned stores, every one picked clean. Empty

shelves, smashed windows. Looted and burned. He doesn't even

look inside, knowing already that he will find nothing.

Until he comes to a store that does cause him to stop. An old-

fashioned sign squeaks on rusted hinges in the breeze.

He steps into the doorway and pushes open the door. It swings

open on its one remaining hinge before splintering away from

the frame and crashing to the floor in a cloud of dust.

INT. SHOE STORE - CONTINUOUS

Eli steps inside. Like all the others, the store has been

cleaned out. Shoe racks and empty boxes strewn over the

floor. The whole place reeking of dead, musty air.

Eli looks around, just to be sure. Drags his sheathed sword

idly along the empty racks as he checks them. Nothing.

As he turns back for the door, his foot nudges against a shoe

box. It's not empty. He crouches down, flips the lid off

hopefully... and pulls out a LADY'S HIGH-HEELED SHOE.

He strokes the shoe leather with his hand. Shakes his head

grimly, then tosses the shoe back into the box and leaves.

EXT. ABANDONED HOUSE - DAY

On the outskirts of town. In disrepair - peeling paint,

broken windows, damp-stained walls - but habitable.

Eli stands in the front yard, surrounded by brownish,

overgrown weeds. Thinking it over. Turns to face the setting

sun. It will be dark soon. He turns back toward the house.

INT. ABANDONED HOUSE - DAY

The front door is sent CRASHING OPEN with a hard kick,

revealing Eli silhouetted in the fading sunlight. The shotgun

unhitched from his pack and held ready. He moves inside.

Another dead place. Flies buzzing in the still, dank air.

Everything covered in a thick layer of dust but otherwise

largely preserved. An eerie snapshot of a world long gone.

KITCHEN

Every cupboard empty. Eli checks each one, poking around in

the dark corners with his sword, but finds nothing but dust.

He opens the freezer, checks inside. Empty save for a small

ICEBOX. The lid stuck fast with mildew and gunk. Eli digs at

it with his grimy fingernails and manages to pry it open.

Inside are the wizened, petrified remains of a HUMAN HAND.

Floating in slimy, discolored water. The smell vile and thick

enough to make Eli retch. He quickly jams the lid back on.

BEDROOM

A wooden bedframe stripped clean. The dresser drawers have

been emptied and lie strewn across the floor. Eli moves

toward a large walk-in closet and opens the door.

No clothes inside - just the near-fossilized corpse of a MAN

HANGING BY A NOOSE. Twisting gently back and forth.

Unfazed, Eli crouches down and checks the man's feet. An old

pair of Converse All-Stars hang limp from the man's skeletal

ankles. Eli calmly sets about unlacing them.

He checks the size; they're a fit. He upturns each shoe and

shakes the old flakes of mummified flesh from them. Discards

his ruined boots and puts on the sneakers, laces them up.

He walks around, pacing up and down, getting a feel for the

new shoes. They feel good. For the first time, he smiles.

LATER

Eli sits in the corner, roasting the carcass of the dead cat

over a small CAMPFIRE. He cleans the animal's pelts as he

watches it cook. Pokes at the meat with a pen-knife, checking

it for done-ness. It appears ready to eat.

He clasps his hands together in prayer.

He speaks QUIETLY, his voice barely above a whisper. Even so,

we catch the accent - a RASPY, OLD-WORLD MIDWEST DRAWL, like

John Wayne or some other long-forgotten western icon.

He signs a cross over himself, then uses the knife to saw off

a chunk of meat. Takes a bite, savoring the taste with great

relish. To him, it's grade-A filet mignon.

It appears as though he is talking to himself... until a RAT

emerges from his coat pocket, whiskers twitching keenly. Eli

offers it some meat. The rat gnaws enthusiastically at it.

SUNDOWN

The last of the waning sunlight shafts through the bedroom's

broken window. Eli rummages through his backpack, pulls out a

SMALL PACKAGE wrapped in cloth and tied fast with string.

He sits back in his corner and carefully unwraps it. It's an

OLD LEATHER-BOUND BOOK. The binding cracked and pages dog-

eared, thumbed through a thousand times and more.

Eli gazes lovingly at it. Lets his fingers play across the

beat-up old leather cover. A cherished thing.

He begins to read, half-hidden in the shadows of the fading

sunlight. Silently mouthing the words as he reads them.

MANY PAGES LATER

Eli closes the book and parcels it back up as before.

Replaces it in his pack, then reaches in for something else.

A CAR BATTERY. Old and streaked with acid stains. Attached to

a tangled bunch of ELECTRICAL WIRING and JUMPER CABLES. Eli

reaches into his pocket and produces:

AN IPOD. Badly beat-up, the case pretty much held together

with duct tape. But functional. Eli attaches the battery

cable to the iPod and places the headphones in his ears.

The music plays. Mozart's Piano Concerto No. 20 in D Minor.

Eli rests back against the wall and pushes the volume way up.

THE MUSIC SWELLS. Eli's fingers dance and swoop in the air,

as though conducting an orchestra, as he is transported by

the music to another world, a world far from this one.

MORNING

Sunlight shafts through the window. Eli sits slumped in the

exact same position, headphones still in his ears. Asleep.

The rat scurries up Eli's chest and licks his face. Slowly,

he wakes, realizing he fell asleep with his music still on.

Checks the battery. It's dead, drained overnight. He frowns.

He gets to his feet, moves to the window and checks outside.

All seems quiet. He loads up his backpack and weapons.

The rat scurries up his leg, onto his duster and disappears

into the breast pocket. Eli turns and moves out.

EXT. ABANDONED HOUSE - MORNING

The gate squeaks shut behind Eli as he exits the front yard.

He breathes in the air, turns to feel the warm morning sun on

his face. Then turns away from it and walks on down the road.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The landscape barren and featureless, road lined with dead

trees. Eli walks along the warped and broken asphalt.

The road is strewn with burned-out cars and debris from a

world long dead. A warped metal sign by the side of the road

reads: LITTER REMOVAL NEXT TWO MILES BY: "CIRCUIT CITY".

Up ahead is a HUNCHED FIGURE by the side of the road. Eli

arrives to see that it's a YOUNG WOMAN. Bone-thin, dressed in

filthy rags. Skin plagued by an unpleasant rash.

The SHOPPING CART she was pushing has overturned into a

roadside ditch, spilling its contents. Blankets, tins of

food, old clothes. She's on her knees trying to gather it up.

She looks up as she sees Eli approaching. Instantly cowers

from him, raising her hands to protect herself. Terrified.

She offers him a can of pet food with a trembling hand. Eli

stands there looking at her. His expression impossible to

read behind the mirrored goggles.

Eli bends down and picks up a couple of the cart's spilled

contents. Steps forward and offers them to her.

She blinks. Unsure. Cautiously she reaches out and takes it.

Eli looks at the cart. It has come to rest in the ditch just

inches from a THICK BRACKEN HEDGEROW that lines the road.

He looks again at the girl. Her faded blouse is unbuttoned,

revealing a little cleavage. Her skirt torn along the leg,

showing more than a little thigh. Almost deliberate.

He sniffs the air. Watches the hedgerow warily. Just like the

cat he hunted, his senses heightened and on alert.

Behind the hedge, THREE ROADSIDE BANDITS are crouched,

waiting to pounce. Each armed with a crude blunt weapon. They

exchange anxious looks.

ELI sniffs the air again - then backs away from the girl.

The girl's face falls as Eli backs up. The three bandits

EMERGE FROM THE HEDGEROW, brandishing their weapons. A couple

of them wear old sunglasses and goggles similar to Eli's.

The BANDIT LEADER grabs the girl by a fistful of hair as he

passes, yanking her painfully to her feet.

He pushes her away, she crumples to the road in a heap.

Eli backs away, but TWO MORE ARMED BANDITS drop from hiding

in the trees behind, cutting off his escape, surrounding him.

BANDIT #2 notices the shotgun strapped to the pack.

The bandit leader steps forward aggressively. Now within

striking distance of Eli. He grins, teeth filthy and rotten.

Eli remains perfectly calm. And though he speaks with a soft,

even tone, there is something formidable about his voice.

BEAT. The bandit leader looks at Eli incredulously... and

then LAUGHS. The other bandits laugh along nervously.

Eli doesn't move, doesn't say a word. The bandit leader takes

another step forward and shoves him in the shoulder.

The other bandits exchange nervous looks. This is not how

it's supposed to go.

He lunges forward, grabs the shoulder strap of Eli's pack.

If you blinked, you missed it. But somehow Eli has now drawn

his sword. A RIVULET OF BLOOD snakes down along the blade and

drips onto the asphalt.

Bandit leader's hand is still gripped firmly around Eli's

shoulder strap. But it's no longer connected to his arm. The

SEVERED HAND hangs there from the strap, dripping blood.

Bandit leader staggers backward and raises the bloody stump

where his hand once was. Looks at it in shock and horror.

Eli pries the hand loose from the strap and tosses it onto

the road as bandit leader's legs give out and he slumps to

the asphalt. His eyes dart around, as though confused.

A tense BEAT. And then the four remaining bandits ATTACK ELI

ALL AT ONCE, weapons flailing.

Eli flourishes the sword. A BLUR, TOO FAST TO FOLLOW. But

it's clear he is possessed of an inhuman level of skill.

It is over in moments. The four bandits LAY SLAIN IN THE

ROAD, blood pooling out onto the asphalt.

The bandit leader crawls toward his severed hand, a few yards

away. Eli steps in and kicks it out of his reach.

Bandit leader looks up to see the figure of Eli bearing down

on him, silhouetted ominously against the sun. He looks for a

moment like an avenging angel, something not of this world.

And with that, Eli runs him through with his sword.

He turns to see the young woman slumped in the road, sobbing.

She cowers again as he approaches, certain that she is next.

He WALKS PAST HER. Sheathes his sword, then pulls out the

shopping cart from the ditch and rights it. The woman watches

incredulously as he gathers up her supplies into the cart.

She looks at him, puzzled.

Eli says nothing. Walks back to the slain bandits, crouches

beside them and begins searching their bodies.

He takes a scarf from around the neck of one. Finds a Zippo

lighter on another, checks that it works and pockets it.

LATER

The five bodies are lined neatly in the ditch, half-covered

with dirt. The best burial they are going to get.

Eli stands before them, head bowed in prayer. He speaks

quietly and quickly, a speech he has given many times.

The young woman stands a few yards away, watching him,

transfixed. She has never seen anyone like him.

He turns and walks away down the road, passing the woman.

He doesn't even turn back to look at her.

He walks on, into the horizon.

EXT. FREEWAY OVERPASS - DAY

Straddling the desert like a giant, crumbling monument to a

long-dead civilization. Eli steadily climbs his way up.

He comes to an abrupt stop as we realize suddenly that the

overpass has COLLAPSED at mid-point. RUSTED IRON RODS jut out

from where the roadway has been severed.

Eli just stands there at the edge for a moment, feeling the

wind whip around him, his coat fluttering in the breeze.

The overpass's collapsed section is now just a MOUNTAINOUS

PILE OF RUBBLE that leads down to the road below.

Eli steps onto the rubble. About to make his way down when he

FREEZES. He hears something. The faintest of sounds. He takes

cover, peering down at the road beneath the overpass to see:

TWO PEOPLE walking together on the road. We see everything

from ELI'S P.O.V. - too far to make out much detail, but

apparently it is a MIDDLE-AGED COUPLE.

The man pushes along an OLD WHEELBARROW covered by a tarp as

the woman, seemingly his wife, walks alongside. The barrow's

rusted wheel gives out a plaintive, rhythmic SQUEAK.

Eli ducks down again as he hears something else. This time

much louder. The menacing growl of MOTORCYCLE ENGINES.

FOUR BIKES IN TOTAL. Riding out of the horizon, closing in on

the couple. They see the bikes coming and panic. Try

desperately to steer the barrow off the road.

The bikes screech to a halt and the FOUR RIDERS dismount.

Brandishing a variety of weapons. The couple make a run for

it but they're quickly chased down and tackled to the ground.

The woman SCREAMS and struggles helplessly as the bikers

swarm over the man like a pack of predatory animals.

The woman is pulled to the ground and the clothes stripped

from her. Eli turns away. He knows what comes next.

Eli listens as the woman screams and screams. He reaches for

his shotgun... hesitates... then withdraws his hand.

Eli repeats it like a mantra. He clearly wants to intervene,

but will not permit himself to. Instead, he simply sits and

waits grimly as the woman continues to scream for help. And

then finally, suddenly, is silenced.

Down below, the bodies of the man and woman lay dead and

bloodied in the dirt. The bikers tear the tarp from the

wheelbarrow, spilling its contents onto the asphalt.

They ferret through the items, scavenging a few items - we

don't see what - and stuffing them into an old cloth satchel.

They leave the rest strewn in the road and ride off in the

direction they came, dust pluming in their wake.

Eli waits until the sound of the motorcycles has receded into

the far distance before emerging from his hiding place.

EXT. ROAD BENEATH OVERPASS - DAY

Eli crouches on one knee before the murdered couple. He signs

a cross over their ravaged bodies as he mutters a prayer

under his breath. Then stands and continues on down the road.

EXT. ROAD FORK - DAY

More desolate wasteland as far as the eye can see. The road

forks again here. Eli arrives at the junction and stops.

The road Eli is on leads further into the west. The other

fork heads toward a SMALL TOWN just visible on the horizon.

A HAND-PAINTED SIGN has been driven into the dirt nearby. No

words, just a series of CRUDE PICTOGRAMS. A BED. A PLATE OF

FOOD. A WATER FAUCET. AN ARROW points toward the town.

Eli pauses, thinking it over. Retrieves the iPod from his

pocket. Clicks the button, but no response. He sighs.

He turns and heads down the other fork, toward town.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - OUTSKIRTS - DAY

A primitive, sprawling village of tents and barn-like

structures. Built from corrugated iron, rotted wood, molded

plastic, tarpaulin - materials scavenged from the old world.

HUDDLED RESIDENTS are dressed in little more than rags, many

wearing goggles like Eli's to shield their eyes from the sun.

Eli stands at the edge of town. Reluctant to enter, but he

braces himself and walks on in. And as he rounds a corner,

entering the center of town, an astonishing sight:

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS

The broad thoroughfare now all that remains of whatever town

once stood here. Many of the old storefronts still largely

intact but patched up with salvaged materials. The asphalt

street warped and cracked, parking meters bent and smashed.

It's a lot like the abandoned town Eli passed through

earlier, except VERY MUCH ALIVE - BUSTLING WITH TOWNSFOLK.

It's at once a familiar and also a disturbing sight - like an

old Norman Rockwell painting of classic small-town America,

but filtered through the devastating eye of an apocalypse. An

unsettling juxtaposition of the old world and the new.

The centerpiece of the town is a GRAND THEATER at the head of

the main street. THE PALLADIUM. Like the rest of the town,

badly damaged and shoddily fixed-up. But still standing.

Eli walks down the street and approaches a BLACKSMITH,

hammering out a metal plate over an anvil outside his store.

The blacksmith doesn't look up from his work but motions

toward a storefront at the far end of the street.

Eli heads down the street. Stopping when he comes across a

STATUE erected in the center of the road. A TALL MAN crudely

fashioned in clay. One hand placed paternally on the head of

a SMALL CHILD, the other outstretched toward the sun.

As he observes the statue, Eli notices that passing residents

take a moment to PAUSE AND GENUFLECT before it. Worshipping.

Curious, Eli reaches up and runs his hand over the statue's

face. Then hears SHUFFLING FEET behind him and turns as a

PARADE OF EMACIATED MEN AND WOMEN trudges past. Roped

together at the waist, each man leading the one behind.

Heads shaved, thin from malnutrition. And each one BLIND.

They gaze at the ground with pale, dead eyes. They carry

picks, shovels and other tools - a sightless CHAIN GANG.

Eli watches as the pathetic parade shuffles past, herded like

cattle by a brutish CHAIN GANG BOSS who swats at them with a

stick to keep them moving and indicate direction.

The gang boss glares at Eli as he passes by. Eli doesn't

return the look, just continues crossing the street as the

blind are herded away. Headed toward a wooden building with a

pictogram of a LIGHTNING BOLT suspended above the door.

INT. ENGINEER WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

Whatever this place once was, it's now a kind of POST-

APOCALYPTIC RADIO SHACK. Shelves display a variety of goods.

Engine parts. Old electrical wiring. Small appliances.

An old ELECTRIC GENERATOR rumbles noisily, powering strings

of multi-colored CHRISTMAS LIGHTS that hang all around.

Behind the main counter a convoluted Rube Goldberg-esque

STILL is running. An ENGINEER in a leather apron pours the

remnants of a can of motor oil into the still's funnel.

Attached to the still is an old MOTORCYCLE MIRROR. In its

reflection the engineer sees Eli checking out the store.

Without turning around, he reaches surreptitiously behind the

counter for something.

Eli turns toward the counter - to find the engineer training

a PUMP-ACTION SHOTGUN right at him.

Eli slowly raises his hands.

He nods toward the shotgun visible on Eli's backpack.

The engineer's hands tremble, his finger tight on the

trigger. This man needs to be talked down carefully.

Eli nods. Unhitches the pack and sets it down, steps away.

This seems to make the engineer more suspicious of Eli.

The engineer jerks the shotgun at Eli nervously.

Eli raises his hand and holds it outstretched, palm faced

downward. The engineer watches it closely for any sign of

ticks or tremors, but Eli's hand stays steady as a rock.

The sight of the steady hand seems to reassure the engineer a

little. Finally, he lowers the shotgun.

The engineer raises the shotgun nervously again.

The engineer watches him like a hawk as Eli opens up his pack

and pulls out the car battery. When he sees it, he gasps.

Eli places it on the counter. The engineer looks it over with

awe, like it's a priceless historical artifact.

Eli pulls the Zippo lighter from his pocket. The engineer

picks it up, sparks the flint, watches the flame flicker.

INT. PALLADIUM - AUDITORIUM - DAY

This once grand theater have been largely gutted - seats torn

out, fixtures and fittings stripped, curtains ripped from the

stage. But still, there's a sense of grandeur to this place.

Looking out over the stage, a ROYAL BOX - once the most

prestigious seat in the house - has been converted into an

OFFICE of sorts. Seats removed and replaced by an ORNATE

MAHOGANY DESK facing inward, a CHANDELIER suspended above it.

The whole set-up is gaudy and ostentatious - the work of

someone who wants to project an aura of power and wealth, but

has no taste whatsoever.

A TALL MAN is seated in a battered leather armchair behind

the desk, deeply involved in an OLD PAPERBACK BOOK.

The book's cover is faded and partially torn away, the title

still just visible: 7 HABITS OF HIGHLY EFFECTIVE PEOPLE.

The man is OLDER than most we've seen. His skin weathered by

the elements and by a long life's experience. One of the very

few people we've seen in this world close to Eli's age - and

unlike everyone else we've seen, he appears healthy and well-

groomed. A rich mane of hair, full set of teeth.

He wears a tattered SUIT AND TIE. None of it matches,

everything scavenged from different outfits and eras. But he

looks almost civilized. Respectable. His name is CARNEGIE.

He looks up from his book at the sound of a POLITE COUGH O.S.

REDRIDGE stands before him. Tall, powerfully built.

His accent is like caramel. A RICH, DEEP-SOUTH DRAWL.

Carnegie lowers his book. Concerned.

Carnegie stands. Thinking. This is bad news.

BEAT. Carnegie stares Redridge down. Nobody but nobody

questions his orders.

Carnegie sighs, rubs his brow. He knows Redridge is right.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAY

A LARGE CROWD OF TOWNSFOLK - several hundred strong - has

assembled outside the Palladium theater. AN ARMED CREW OF

CARNEGIE'S GOONS keeps watch over the crowd.

Carnegie stands on a BALCONY above the theater marquee. He

treats the balcony like a pulpit, speaking through a

MICROPHONE connected to an old PA SYSTEM that carries his

words to the far reaches of the crowd.

The crowd listens intently, hanging on Carnegie's every word.

He is an incredibly charismatic and persuasive speaker - his

cultivated image and inspiring, confident delivery remind us

of a TELEVISION EVANGELIST.

This sends a MURMUR OF DISCONTENT through the crowd. Many

don't like where they suspect this may be going. Carnegie

senses this and dials up his rhetoric - delivering it now

with the fire-brand passion of an old-time baptist preacher.

The crowd is divided. Many return the "Hallelujah" with

varying levels of conviction. Others are not convinced. But

Carnegie continues unabated, selling it harder than ever.

Carnegie is such an impassioned and inspiring speaker it's

almost impossible not to get caught up and swept away by his

words. His apparently unshakable belief is infectious.

This sends a much broader ripple of discontent through the

crowd - this news has not been received well at all. Some

still "keep the faith" but many more are perturbed by this.

Carnegie motions for the crowd to settle down.

A DISCONTENTED VILLAGER steps forward, pushing through the

crowd and jabbing his finger angrily up at Carnegie.

Carnegie's goons quickly move in and efficiently SILENCE THE

MAN, removing him from the crowd. Dissent is not tolerated

here. Carnegie goes on speaking as if nothing had happened.

Carnegie steps back inside, leaving the crowd to talk among

themselves, clearly mixed about what they have heard.

As the assembled townsfolk disperse, FOUR MOTORCYCLES roar

into town and pull up outside the Palladium.

As the riders dismount, one detaches a CLOTH SATCHEL from his

bike's cargo rack. The four riders head inside. They each

have long, straggly hair and brutish expressions.

We recognize them now as the BIKER BANDITS who killed the

couple on the road under the freeway overpass.

INT. PALLADIUM - SECOND FLOOR - DAY

Carnegie emerges into the second-floor hallway from the

balcony, mopping his brow. Exhausted and stressed from his

grand theatrical display, and from its mixed reception.

Redridge climbs the stairs to meet him.

Carnegie looks at his cracked old wristwatch.

That gets Carnegie's attention.

INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - DAY

What was once a grand, gilded entrance foyer has, like the

rest of the theater, been largely gutted. But it's still

impressive - a spacious bar area with a grand staircase

leading up to a second floor, entrance to balcony seats, etc.

FADED OLD THEATER POSTERS still hang from the walls.

The place has been shabbily converted into a kind of SALOON.

Old ripped-out theater seats arranged around tables. A

FIREPLACE sputters dimly.

A MANGY TABBY CAT walks across the straw-laden floor. A dozen

or so CUSTOMERS in the place, a mixed, rough-looking bunch.

Redridge emerges from an upstairs room and nods to a group of

his MEN who are holding the bikers at the foot of the stairs.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

Carnegie checks his reflection in a CRACKED HAND MIRROR,

licks his palm and slicks his hair back. He adjusts his tie

as Redridge's men usher the bikers into his "office".

Carnegie wheels around and flashes a smile at them. Just as

when he gave his balcony address, Carnegie is in performance

mode - charismatic and slick like a campaigning politician.

The bikers exchange looks. They understood maybe half the

words in that sentence. The lead biker - named HOG - speaks.

Hog tips the satchel's contents out onto Carnegie's desk.

BOOKS. About a dozen different volumes of all shapes and

sizes. Carnegie rifles excitedly through the collection.

We see various titles as he sorts through them. Treasure

Island. The Da Vinci Code. A volume of encyclopedia. The

Diary of Anne Frank. Tuesdays with Morrie.

In amongst the books are a few MAGAZINES. An old issue of

OPRAH magazine. A torn copy of SPORTS ILLUSTRATED...

...And a NEWSWEEK. The cover graphic illustrates OPPOSING

NUCLEAR ARSENALS over a world globe. On one side the STARS

AND STRIPES, on the other flags indicating a SINO-ISLAMIC

ALLIANCE. The headline reads: "IS THERE NO TURNING BACK?"

As Carnegie rejects each book with growing disappointment and

frustration, it's clear he's looking for a specific volume.

The bikers exchange more looks. An unspoken conversation.

Carnegie's guards bristle, ready for a confrontation.

Carnegie just smiles, always ready to smooth things over.

As always, his carefully stage-managed rhetoric is delivered

with the utmost conviction, every word dripping with passion

and persuasion. He's a master salesman, a true huckster.

He steps forward and looks Hog right in the eye. His gaze

like a laser beam, utterly disarming.

It's impossible not to be swayed by this guy. He's just so

full of fiery passion and infectious belief, you almost want

to reach into your pocket and hand over your wallet.

Hog snatches up his empty satchel.

He turns and marches to the door, the other bikers following.

The guards escort them out, only Redridge remains.

Carnegie slumps back into his chair, frustrated, pissed off.

Carnegie and Redridge lock eyes. BEAT.

Carnegie ignores him. Stands, walks toward the door. Redridge

sighs, gestures toward the books piled on Carnegie's desk.

INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - DAY

Redridge stands by the marble fireplace, tossing the books

into the fire. The flames flicker and leap around the books

as their pages blacken and are consumed by the fire.

INT. ENGINEER WORKSHOP - DAY

Eli watches as the engineer charges the battery with the gas

generator, which chugs noisily.

He licks his lips, dry as sand. Unscrews his canteen to take

a drink, but it's down to its last few drips.

Eli thinks a while longer. Then stands and stuffs his shotgun

inside his pack, shoulders his gear and makes for the door.

Eli stops in the doorway and turns back to the engineer.

And with that he turns and leaves. The engineer gulps. Not a

hint in Eli's voice that he didn't mean every word.

INT. PALLADIUM - CARNEGIE'S BEDROOM - DAY

This old second-floor DRESSING ROOM has been converted into a

bedroom, simply furnished.

A WOMAN stands in front of an old DRESSING ROOM MIRROR, the

bulbs around the frame burned-out and broken. She washes her

face in murky water in an old PORCELAIN BOWL on the dresser.

Her name is CLAUDIA. Early 30s, pretty. She gazes into the

mirror as she dries her hands, but it's so cracked and warped

it's near impossible to see a reflection.

The door opens and Carnegie enters. He still looks steamed.

Claudia doesn't turn to look at him, keeps facing the mirror.

Carnegie says nothing. Just paces angrily up and down.

Finally Claudia turns to face him.

Carnegie trails off, the thought too awful to contemplate.

Claudia adopts a sympathetic expression, supportive.

This seems to anger Carnegie. He wheels on her.

She detects the aggressive tone in his voice and goes quiet,

head bowed. Carnegie moves toward her angrily.

He's in her face now. Claudia avoids eye contact, submissive.

He's shouting now, and she's trembling, afraid to speak.

Carnegie realizes he's frightened her. He softens.

He lifts her chin up, wipes away a tear.

He puts his hands on her lustfully. It's clear she's not in

the mood, but she halfheartedly responds anyway. More out of

a sense of wifely duty than reciprocated passion.

As they kiss, Carnegie pushes her excitedly against the wall

and feverishly begins unbuckling his pants.

INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - DAY

The original customers have now been joined by the four

bikers, who sit at their own table drinking a clear and

pungent moonshine-type liquor from a shared jar.

Eli enters. All eyes are on him immediately, regarding him

with guarded interest as he pulls up a stool at the bar.

The BARTENDER approaches, looks him up and down. Suspicious.

Eli raises his hand as before. Holds it outstretched, steady.

Eli places the canteen on the bar.

Eli takes off his scarf and puts it on the bar. The bartender

takes it and looks it over. Not particularly impressed.

The bartender spies Eli's silver Saint Christopher pendant.

Eli stuffs the pendant inside his shirt. No way that's for

sale. Instead, he reaches into his coat and produces the fur

pelts he skinned from the dead cat, lays them out on the bar.

The bartender takes a pelt and examines it. The mangy cat

leaps up onto the bar and approaches. Sniffs at the pelts

with suspicion and HISSES at Eli.

Eli shoos the cat off the bar with a wave of his hand. At the

biker's table Hog watches this, not happy about this.

Satisfied with the pelts, the bartender gathers them up along

with the scarf, then turns away toward the back room.

A TEENAGE GIRL emerges from the back. No older than 16 or 17.

Dressed in unflattering work clothes, face grimy, blonde hair

tied back in a ponytail. But even through all this, it's

clear she is a strikingly beautiful young woman.

The bartender takes Eli's canteen and hands it to Solara

along with a RATION CARD he keeps around his neck.

Solara takes the canteen, pausing for a moment to look Eli up

and down. Unsure quite what to make of him, but intrigued.

There's something about him she can't put her finger on...

He doesn't look back at her. She turns and exits.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS

Solara exits via the Palladium's STAGE DOOR and walks across

the busy street to where TWO OF CARNEGIE'S ARMED MEN stand

guard around an ENCLOSURE OF CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH

RAZOR WIRE. TOWNSFOLK wait in line with bowls and buckets.

One of the guards recognizes Solara and lets her cut to the

front of the line. He punches two holes in her ration card

and lets her inside the chain-link enclosure.

Inside is an OLD RUSTED SPIGOT attached to a pipe emerging

from the earth. Solara cranks hard on the handle - it takes a

few pulls before the water comes, and then only at a weak

trickle; it will take a while to fill the canteen.

INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

As Eli sits at the bar, a SHADOW comes into view and looms

large over him. Hog is standing behind him, glaring, cutting

a menacing figure in his armored cycle leathers.

Solara senses trouble brewing and moves off, taking Eli's

canteen away into the back room.

Eli doesn't turn. Just looks straight ahead. Impossible to

read him behind those mirrored goggles. Utterly inscrutable.

The bartender looks at Hog nervously.

Hog grabs him by the arm.

Blink. Suddenly Hog's head is pinned to the bar by nothing

more than Eli's thumb. Pressed deep into a nerve cluster in

his neck. Eli leans in close as Hog whimpers, paralyzed.

The other bikers stand and approach, the OTHER CUSTOMERS

following suit. Eli senses the trouble gathering behind him.

It's all Hog can do to just barely nod his head. Eli releases

his thumb. Hog staggers backward, gasping for breath.

Eli stands and makes toward the door, but the bikers and

other patrons have moved to block his exit.

Eli sighs, looks down at the floor. He's been pushed one time

too many today. For the first time, we see anger in his face.

The patrons look at Eli strangely. Who is this guy?

Eli reaches back and draws the samurai sword. Carves a line

in the dirt at his feet with the tip of the blade.

INT. PALLADIUM - CARNEGIE'S BEDROOM - DAY

Carnegie has Claudia pinned against the wall, his pants

bunched around his ankles, ass bared as he pounds away at

her. Not making love. This is mechanical, loveless sex.

Claudia stares vacantly over his shoulder into space as

Carnegie thrusts into her again and again. Deeply

uninterested, just waiting for it to be over.

Suddenly, we hear a CRASH O.S. Carnegie stops and listens.

Claudia sees an opening to get out of this.

BEAT. Carnegie keeps listening. Then comes another CRASH.

He pulls up his pants, grabbing a RIFLE propped by the door

as he rushes out. Claudia just stands there for a moment,

then reaches down and pulls up her panties.

She moves from the wall and makes her way across the room,

feeling her way with her hands, gazing off into nothingness.

Only now do we finally realize that she is BLIND.

INT. PALLADIUM - MAIN LOBBY - CONTINUOUS

Carnegie emerges from the bedroom onto the balcony. Looks

down over the railing - and is stunned by what he sees.

CHAOS in the bar below. Eli cutting a one-man swath of mayhem

through the dozen brawlers. Most already lie dead. TWO MORE

MEN ATTACK Eli and are effortlessly felled by his sword.

Carnegie rushes hurriedly along the landing, banging loudly

on the doors of the upstairs rooms.

ON ELI. Surrounded by the dead, only one man left standing.

Hog. He backs away as Eli circles him like a predator. Sword

held ready, the blade glistening with dark red blood.

SOLARA re-emerges from the back room with Eli's refilled

canteen. She stops and emits a horrified GASP when she sees

the bloody carnage laid out in the bar before her.

She watches, mortified, as Eli moves toward the helpless,

terrified Hog, going in for the kill. Raising his sword...

Suddenly, Solara steps forward and CRIES OUT:

Eli FREEZES. Sword hanging in the air, poised to strike. He

turns his head to where Solara stands behind the bar.

BEAT as Eli considers. He looks back at Hog, still completely

at his mercy... and then LOWERS THE SWORD.

Hog stumbles backward through the door, into the sunlight.

Eli moves toward Solara, who stands petrified behind the bar.

Reaches out and gently pries the canteen from her loose grip.

In the exitway, Hog turns back inside, grabbing up a BROKEN

BOTTLE from the bloody floor as he goes.

Hog rushes Eli from behind. Solara sees him coming and goes

to SCREAM - but before any sound can come, Eli flips his

sword backward and Hog runs right onto it, SKEWERING HIMSELF.

BEAT. Hog just stands there for a moment, eyes wide, frozen

in shock. His fingers go limp, dropping the bottle.

He slides off the sword and collapses to the floor, dead.

Eli wipes the sword clean and sheathes it. Looks around at

the bloodied, fallen bodies. Then back at Solara.

As he turns and heads toward the door:

Accompanied by the sound of MULTIPLE GUNS COCKING.

Carnegie is on the landing, training his rifle down at Eli.

Alongside him, FIVE GUNMEN do the same. They've got him cold.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

Carnegie sits at his desk, the huge auditorium and stage area

visible behind him. Eli stands before him. Around him are the

other gunmen, who keep their weapons trained on him.

Standing at Carnegie's side are REDRIDGE and CLAUDIA.

Carnegie's gunmen look him over, inspecting him warily.

Carnegie's confident gaze remains fixed on Eli throughout.

Eli can't help but react at the mention of that word.

Eli doesn't respond. Just stands there in Carnegie's gaze.

Barely noticeable, Carnegie gestures to one of the gunmen,

who nods in acknowledgement and leaves.

The mention of that word rankles Carnegie. He walks around

the desk toward Eli, waves an admonishing finger at him.

Carnegie can't help himself - once again he is in his natural

element, spinning the argument his way, pitching. Selling.

An impressive, impassioned performance. He sounds just like

an old-school TV evangelist. But Eli is unmoved.

Eli doesn't respond. Just stands there.

That's good. Good man. We educated

folk, we need to stick together, if

we're ever going to rebuild this

world. People like you and me,

we're the future.

What do you want with me?

Straight to the point. I like that.

Fact is, you could be in a lot of

trouble. This is a peaceful town.

You walk in here, armed, and the

next thing a dozen of my good

citizens are dead. I've hanged men

for less. I could hang you.

Or, you could come work for me.

What?

I never once saw anyone handle

themselves the way you did down

there in that bar. I don't know

where you learned it, but I sure as

hell could use it.

I'm not interested.

People who work for me can live

better than any walker ever

dreamed. Real beds, clean water,

hot food. Women, even. You could do

a lot worse, my friend.

I'm not your friend. And I'm not

staying. I got someplace I need to

be. Out west.

West? There is nothing west. It's

all gone, a long time ago.

I've been told different.

Eli doesn't reply. Carnegie smiles, dials up the charm.

The gunmen bristle, exchange nervous looks. Carnegie appears

unfazed. He smiles. BEAT. He looks to the gunman at the door.

The gunman opens the door. Eli turns and exits.

INT. ENGINEER WORKSHOP - DAY

The engineer stands behind the counter, looking worried. His

heart sinks when he sees Eli enter.

Eli leans in a little closer. He smells a rat.

Eli looks at the engineer. Hard to be certain, but he's

pretty sure he's lying. Somebody got to him.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

A VIOLENT COMMOTION is heard from down the hall. Suddenly one

of Carnegie's henchmen comes flying into view as he is THROWN

HARD INTO A WALL and slumps to the floor, unconscious.

Eli storms into the box, pissed. MORE GUARDS rush in behind

him. Carnegie, seated behind his desk, waves the guards off

as he stands to greet Eli, smiling ingratiatingly as ever.

Carnegie is a practiced liar. Much more difficult to read.

Redridge - one of the two men who chased Eli into the room -

steps forward. He regards Eli with a distrustful eye.

INT. PALLADIUM - GUEST BEDROOM - DUSK

Redridge opens the door and ushers Eli inside.

It's another of the dressing rooms converted into a bedroom,

less well-appointed than Carnegie's own. A threadbare rug.

Bed with relatively clean sheets. A sink for washing.

Redridge smirks and closes the door, leaving Eli alone. Eli

paces across the room. Finally sits down on the creaky old

bed. Trying to figure out how he managed to get stuck here.

He unshoulders his pack, sets it down. Lies down on the bed.

It's been a while since he felt a real bed on his back.

A KNOCK at the door. Eli gets quickly to his feet.

The door opens and CLAUDIA enters. Carrying a metal tub of

water in both hands and, atop that, a dinner tray.

Eli just stands there. Totally unfamiliar with this kind of

situation, it's been too long. She smiles, embarrassed.

He takes the stuff from her, sets it on the table.

We get the impression that Claudia is as unfamiliar with this

kind of polite interaction as Eli. But she likes it.

She strikes a match and lights the oil lamp on the table. The

room is lit by its flickering glow.

As she turns for the door:

Claudia smiles. Neither has she.

BEAT. She trails off, struggling with this unhappy memory.

Eli gets it, raises a hand reassuringly.

There's a bittersweet quality to Claudia's words. As though

there is more to the story than she is telling.

Eli pulls out a chair at the table, offers it to her.

She smiles and sits. Eli sits across from her.

Again, bittersweet. The sense that Claudia feels trapped.

Thinking about it begins to upset her. She gets up.

Eli stands, escorts her to the door and opens it.

Eli closes the door, then sits back at the table.

INT. PALLADIUM - CARNEGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Carnegie washes, looking at himself in the old dressing-room

mirror. He sees Claudia enter the room in its dim reflection.

A subtly accusing tone. It makes Claudia nervous.

Claudia moves to the bedside, begins to undress.

Claudia reacts suddenly to this. Shocked and angry.

Carnegie sighs, tiring of this.

Claudia looks at Carnegie in disgust.

Now it's Carnegie's turn to get angry. He rounds on her

menacingly. She backs off as he approaches.

He has her against the wall, his face just inches from hers.

Carnegie calms himself, backs off. Claudia goes to leave.

Carnegie surges forward and pins Claudia to the wall.

He releases his grip on her.

He speaks more softly now. As he strokes his hand tenderly

through Claudia's hair, a tear runs down her cheek.

INT. PALLADIUM - GUEST BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dark outside, but the room is brightly lit by the glow of the

oil lamp. Eli sits up on his bed, quietly reading the old

leather-bound book from his backpack.

Another KNOCK at the door. Eli jumps up and hurriedly hides

the book inside his shirt.

The door opens to reveal Solara. Looking very different than

she did before. Cleaned up and wearing a flowery summer

dress, blonde hair let down over her shoulders. Stunning.

Unlike everyone else we have met, she seems - physically, at

least - totally unscarred by the horrors of the times. Far

too beautiful a thing to belong in a world like this.

She glides into the room, closing the door. She's good. Very

seductive. Eli is totally disarmed in her presence.

She doesn't wait for an answer. Moves to the table and turns

down the oil lamp. A darker, more seductive lighting scheme.

She sits on the bed, kicks her legs playfully. Her light

cotton dress revealing in all the right places. The

silhouette of her body bathed in the seductive glow of the

oil lamp. No red-blooded man on earth could resist her.

She leans over on the bed, resting on her elbow. Her hair

cascades down. God damn, she looks good.

She slides off the bed, approaches him. Begins to work the

buttons of his shirt.

He moves her hand away. Gently pushes her back a step.

She is stunned. No man has ever turned her down before. And

then she seems a little insulted.

Eli opens the door for her.

Suddenly all her other emotions give way to fear. She moves

to the door and slams it shut again. Looks Eli in the eye.

She nods, fighting back a tear. This angers Eli.

He goes for the door handle, but she stops him.

BEAT. Eli moves his hand away from the door.

She looks up at Eli imploringly. Transformed. No longer the

teenage sex kitten. Now she's just a frightened little girl.

She smiles, wiping the tear from her cheek.

LATER

Eli and Solara sit together on the bed. A silent BEAT. At

first, it appears as though they have nothing to say.

She smiles. Eli is surprised to find himself smiling back.

Eli smiles, amused by the bluntness of the question.

Eli nods.

Eli thinks about this. Dredging through old, old memories.

Solara smiles like she's having her leg pulled.

BEAT. Eli thinks. Should he or shouldn't he?

Eli pulls the book from his shirt. Solara's eyes widen.

For the first time we see that it's a KING JAMES BIBLE. An

embossed GOLD CROSS on its old leather cover.

Eli opens it up, scans the page with his finger until he

finds the passage he's looking for.

ON SOLARA as she listens to Eli read. Transfixed.

BEAT as Eli thinks. How on earth to answer that?

She reaches out for the book but he snatches it away.

BEAT. Eli runs his fingers across the embossed gold cross on

the beat-up leather cover.

BEAT as Eli considers his answer.

BEAT. The two of them sit in silence for a moment.

She looks down, sad. She likes this guy. She doesn't want him

to leave. Eli can sense her sadness.

She walks over to where the dinner tray is covered by a small

cloth. She whips it away - to reveal ELI'S RAT nibbling on a

piece of cheese. Solara SHRIEKS and backs away.

The rat scurries down the table leg and leaps up onto Eli's

shoulder, just as afraid of her as she is of it.

Solara approaches warily. Reaches out and strokes him. The

rat scurries up her arm. She almost shrieks again.

Solara pets the rat on her shoulder. Then:

BEAT. Eli finds himself surprised that he admitted such a

thing. When is the last time he had someone he could call a

friend? He can't even remember.

She smiles. Giggles as the rat's whiskers tickle her ear.

Eli breaks the cheese in two and gives half to Solara. She's

about to eat but stops as Eli clasp his hands in prayer.

Unsure of what to do, Solara mimics Eli, putting her hands

together and bowing her head.

Solara looks at him, touched by that.

They sit and eat together, sharing the simple meal.

PULL OUT from the window as they eat, away from the theater.

Away from the town and its flickering points of torchlight.

Moving farther and farther away until the entire town is

consumed by the darkness of the world.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAWN

The pale sun rises over the town. To establish:

INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - MORNING

What was once the theater's COSTUME ROOM - OLD MANNEQUINS

still stand around in the corners, creating an eerie feel.

Carnegie and Claudia sit at a DINING TABLE, eating breakfast

in silence. A third place is set, but no-one is seated there.

Solara enters and sits down without a word.

Solara doesn't say anything.

Claudia appears perturbed by Carnegie's subtle probing.

Solara flashes him a frosty look.

Carnegie glares at her sternly.

Solara lowers her head, scorned. Carnegie continues eating.

Carnegie puts down his food, looks angrily at her.

He glances knowingly at Claudia.

She looks at the food on the plate before her. Then closes

her eyes and clasps her hands in prayer.

Claudia and Carnegie freeze. Carnegie stares at her, agape.

She snaps suddenly out of it, looks at her father.

She doesn't respond. Looks embarrassed.

Solara says nothing, just looks down at the table.

This piques Carnegie's interest greatly.

He barks the question at her. Solara is rattled.

Solara makes the SIGN OF A CRUCIFIX with her index fingers.

Carnegie's eyes widen; he can barely believe it.

Carnegie BOLTS SUDDENLY FROM THE TABLE, overturning his chair

and sending his plate of food crashing to the floor.

INT. PALLADIUM - LOBBY BALCONY - CONTINUOUS

Carnegie races across the landing, toward the ARMED GUARD

posted outside Eli's bedroom. The guard steps aside as

Carnegie flings the door open and barges inside.

INT. PALLADIUM - GUEST BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Empty. No sign of Eli or his gear anywhere. The window is

WIDE OPEN, the curtains fluttering gently in the breeze.

INT. ENGINEER WORKSHOP - CONTINUOUS

His hands shaking, the engineer disconnects Eli's battery

from the generator and places it on the counter.

Eli stands on the other side of the counter with his SHOTGUN

TRAINED RIGHT AT THE MAN'S HEAD. He takes the battery from

him and stuffs it into his backpack.

EXT. PALLADIUM - CONTINUOUS

Carnegie races from the lobby entrance and looks up at the

open window to Eli's room. He could have easily jumped.

Redridge emerges onto the street behind him.

They turn to face the engineer's storefront - just as ELI

EMERGES ONTO THE STREET, shotgun still in his hand.

EVERYBODY FREEZES. Like a wild west stand-off. Redridge's

fingers play over the butt of the pistol on his hip.

BEAT as time hangs perfectly still for a second... and then

ALL HELL BREAKS LOOSE.

Redridge draws and FIRES, SHATTERING A PARKING METER just

inches from Eli and showering quarters all over the sidewalk.

Eli rushes along the sidewalk, RETURNING FIRE. The shot wings

Redridge in the shoulder. He goes down, wounded.

Carnegie dives for cover as FOUR MORE GUNMEN rush from the

theater. Carnegie waves frantically in Eli's direction.

They spot Eli sprinting away and rush off in pursuit.

Carnegie gets to his feet and storms back inside the theater.

INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Solara and Claudia watch through the window. Turn suddenly

when they hear the door slam open behind them.

Carnegie stands in the doorway, glaring at them.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - CONTINUOUS

LOCAL RESIDENTS scream and rush to and fro in panic as Eli

darts along the boardwalk.

CARNEGIE'S GUNMEN pursue, firing their rifles wildly on the

run. The bullets splinter wood, pierce barrels and crates,

narrowly missing Eli as he dashes, keeping his head down.

Eli aims the shotgun and FIRES without even looking. The shot

HITS A GUNMAN SQUARE IN THE CHEST, dropping him to the dirt.

Eli hits the deck, diving for cover behind a JUNKPILE as more

gunfire ricochets all around him. He takes a moment to

collect himself, reloads the shotgun.

The three remaining gunmen close in on the junkpile warily.

Eli signs a cross over himself with the shotgun, looks to the

sky and offers up a silent prayer. Then emerges from around

the junkpile back into the street. All three gunmen OPEN

FIRE, their bullets whipping past on either side of him.

In one swift motion Eli raises the shotgun and FIRES. Three

shots in quick succession. And then there is silence. Smoke

wisps from the shotgun's sawn-off barrel.

The three gunmen LIE DEAD IN THE STREET. One hit square in

the chest. The other two each have maybe one half of their

heads remaining.

Eli looks around. He's right at the end of the main road, the

perimeter where the town meets the open desert. He's free.

And then, A GIRL'S SCREAM. Distant but unmistakable.

Eli whips around. In the upstairs window of the theater,

Carnegie shoves Solara roughly against the wall. Barking

angrily at her, shaking her.

Eli looks at the road. Then up at the theater. Then back to

the road again.

But he sounds less resolute now than before. Until today this

was always a simple decision for him to make. But now...

He marches back toward the theater, stepping over the fallen

bodies of the gunmen, re-loading his shotgun as he goes.

EXT. PALLADIUM - CONTINUOUS

Redridge finally manages to clamber back up to his feet,

wincing as he clutches his painful shoulder wound.

He looks up just in time to see Eli coming right at him.

Without breaking stride, he COLD-COCKS Redridge in the jaw

with the shotgun, sending him back to the deck, out cold.

INT. PALLADIUM - DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Eli kicks the door wide open, finds Carnegie holding Solara

against the wall. She sobs, terrified. Eli levels the shotgun

at Carnegie's head.

He holsters the shotgun. Then in the same fluid motion draws

a PISTOL from his belt that we never even knew he had.

Carnegie releases his grip on Solara, steps away, hands up.

BEAT. Eli glances at Solara.

Carnegie takes a small step forward. Suddenly, his whole

demeanor changes, and he now looks at Eli imploringly.

Carnegie takes a step closer. He appears entirely sincere -

but then he is very good at doing so.

BEAT. Eli seems to be considering what he's heard carefully.

Carnegie smiles broadly... and then with a sudden blur of

movement Eli PISTOL-WHIPS him to the floor.

He turns to Solara and offers her his hand.

EXT. PALLADIUM - CONTINUOUS

Eli emerges from the theater, leading Solara onto the street.

RESIDENTS part before them, staring at Eli with astonishment.

Eli passes the statue of Carnegie - and STOPS. Something

about that thing is bothering him.

He turns, drawing his samurai sword and in the same fluid

motion SLICING across the base of the statue.

BEAT. And then the STATUE TOPPLES from the neat cut just

below the knees, CRASHING DOWN to the ground and SHATTERING.

The assembled residents GASP at this defiant display.

Eli sheathes his sword and takes Solara by the hand again.

CRANE UP over the main street as they both head out of town.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

The town barely visible on the distant horizon behind Eli and

Solara. Eli walks as he always has, his pace steady and slow.

Still, Solara lags along behind. She's already tired.

She stops in the road.

Eli doesn't stop walking. Solara is forced to catch up.

Solara is incredibly hurt by this. Blinks back a tear.

BEAT. Eli stops and turns back to face her.

Eli sighs. He's not getting through to her. So now comes the

harsh truth of it:

Solara steps closer, her eyes pleading.

A long BEAT as Eli considers this. For a moment it appears as

though Solara might have won him over. But then:

He turns and walks off, leaving her in the road. She stands

there, furious, screaming at his back as he walks away.

He doesn't turn or acknowledge her at all. Just keeps walking

off into the horizon. Getting smaller all the time.

Solara stands there in the road, weeping. All alone.

She turns and walks back in the direction she came.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - BARNYARD - DAY

A small, penned-in area to the rear of the Palladium

containing an eclectic bunch of farmyard animals. Goats,

sheep, geese, pigs. Mostly mangy, sad-looking specimens.

Carnegie stands in the yard, tossing handfuls of animal feed

from a nearby sack onto the ground. He watches with

satisfaction as the animals gather at his feet to feed.

Claudia emerges from the theater with an ice-pack.

Carnegie applies it to his jaw, red and swollen from Eli's

pistol-whip. Redridge appears nearby, his arm in a sling.

Carnegie doesn't appear to be listening. He is lost in a

world of his own as he tends to the farm animals.

Carnegie finally looks up from his animals, at Redridge.

BEAT as Carnegie considers this.

He turns back to his animals, summoning up old memories.

He snaps out of his reverie and looks at Redridge.

As usual, Carnegie's slick rhetoric has worked - Redridge has

totally bought into it. Claudia, however, looks appalled.

He reaches out and takes Claudia by the hand.

She smiles halfheartedly, but it's clear she is mortified.

Carnegie turns back to Redridge.

Redridge nods and goes to leave.

BEAT. In all this excitement about the book, she had been

completely forgotten about.

Redridge turns and leaves. Claudia scowls at Carnegie, but he

doesn't even notice, just goes back to feeding his animals.

EXT. DESOLATE ROAD - DAY

Solara wanders the road. She's tired. The sun beats down

mercilessly. Nothing but desolation and wasteland all around.

She comes to a FORK IN THE ROAD. Stops at the junction,

unsure. Was this here before? She doesn't remember.

There are no signs. Both paths look the same. Which one is

which? She turns and looks back, looks around. She's lost.

She alternates her finger between the two paths. Eeny-meeny-

miney-moe. Picks a path and follows it, headed down the road.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Eli walks on. Slow and steady. His gaze, as ever, fixed

firmly on the horizon. Takes a swig from his canteen.

Suddenly, he STOPS and stands stock still in the center of

the road. Impossible to know what he's thinking.

He stands there for a long time.

EXT. WASTELAND GAS STATION - DAY

Solara comes upon an abandoned CHEVRON STATION. She doesn't

remember passing this. Looks back up and down the road.

There's a RUSTED CAR parked at one of the pumps. Like every

other car we've seen, stripped of its tires and engine.

She walks around to the driver's side. A PETRIFIED FEMALE

BODY lies on the ground, half-in, half-out of the car.

Solara claps her hand to her mouth and recoils, horrified.

In the dead woman's hand is a dusty bottle of MINERAL WATER.

Solara hesitates. Not wanting to get closer. But so thirsty.

She braces herself, grimacing, and tries to take the bottle,

but the dead woman's hand is closed tight around it. She

pulls harder and wrenches it free. In the process she falls

on her butt and flips the corpse over onto its back.

In the other woman's arm, she has a SKELETAL BABY cradled to

her bosom. It seems to be staring right at Solara.

Solara SCREAMS and frantically shuffles backward away from

it. Gets to her feet and runs across the forecourt.

She stops by the station shop and rests against the wall,

hyperventilating, heart pounding. Trying to get it together.

She inspects the water in the bottle. It looks clean.

Unscrews the cap with shaking hands and takes a sip.

She SPITS IT BACK OUT, coughing. It's rank. Undrinkable.

INT. WASTELAND GAS STATION - FOOD COURT - DAY

Solara enters. Gloomy inside. Comprehensively looted. Empty

shelves coated in thick sheets of dust.

She moves further in, searching for something, anything. But

the place has been gutted. There's nothing. She checks the

wall of dead refrigerators. Shattered glass, all empty.

She's never known desolation and emptiness like this. It's

beginning to scare her. She wheels around in a panic.

Distant, calling from outside. Solara hears it and freezes.

EXT. WASTELAND GAS STATION - CONTINUOUS

She runs out across the forecourt, onto the road.

A FEMALE FIGURE is hunched by the side of the road about

fifty yards up ahead. Hard to see what she's doing from here.

Solara starts walking toward her.

The woman has her back to Solara. She's on her knees,

muttering to herself. Gathering objects up from the road.

As Solara moves closer, we see that the woman is struggling

with an UPTURNED SHOPPING CART. Stuck in a roadside ditch,

its contents spilled out next to a few BRACKEN BUSHES.

We see her face now. It's the SAME YOUNG WOMAN from before.

The same shopping cart. The same trap.

The woman looks around, sees Solara standing nearby. She's

shocked to see that it's a girl.

The woman seems anxious to get rid of her. Tries to indicate

the threat silently with her eyes, but Solara doesn't get it.

She steps into the ditch and starts to haul the cart out.

Too   late. THREE ROAD BRIGANDS POUNCE FROM THE BUSHES. Every

bit   as brutish and horrifying as the group that Eli killed on

the   road in our opening. They grab Solara and drag her from

the   road into the desert, screaming and kicking all the way.

The BRIGAND LEADER looks Solara up and down lustfully.

Solara is reviled by the man. He's filthy, his stench

overpowering. One eye missing, just a dark, empty socket. He

licks his lips, revealing a mouth almost devoid of teeth.

The brigand leader lashes out and grabs her by the throat.

He releases her. She slumps to the dirt, whimpering.

He looks back to the struggling Solara.

She says nothing, just sobs helplessly.

He unbuckles his pants, lets them drop to his ankles.

We hear a sound. It's hard to place. Something like a THHUP.

The brigand leader is frozen in shock. His face goes pale,

the blood draining from it. The two bandits holding Solara

look at their leader in dismay. Staring down at his crotch.

A quiet whimper escapes from his lips as he looks down.

There is an ARROW IMBEDDED IN HIS CROTCH. What was once down

there is now just a bloody mess of mangled meat. More blood

streams down his thighs. A real horror show.

He staggers backward, shrieking. Hands shaking. Staring down

at the awful wound from which the long arrow shaft extends.

The two other brigands release Solara and whip around,

scanning the horizon. They see nothing. One of them has a

RIFLE. He unslings it and aims it frantically around.

Then they both see it. Coming right at them. The most

terrifying thing either has ever seen.

ELI, WALKING TOWARD THEM FROM THE ROAD, OUT OF THE SUN. His

silhouette distorted in the rippling heat. An avenging angel.

He pulls another arrow and draws it back as the rifle bandit

trains his weapon on him, finger tightening on the trigger.

Eli SHOOTS. The arrow sails through the air and RIGHT INTO

THE RIFLE BARREL. The feathers at the end of the shaft

plugging the muzzle tight.

Rifle bandit pulls the trigger. The gun EXPLODES, BLOWING HIS

HANDS CLEAN OFF. He falls to the ground, screaming.

Eli only had two arrows. He shoulders the bow and draws his

sword. All the remaining brigand has is a small knife. The

two now square off at arm's length. A hopeless mismatch.

BEAT. The knife brigand hesitates, trembling. And then RUSHES

ELI WITH THE KNIFE. Eli deftly sidesteps, flourishes the

sword. So quick it almost seems like he didn't move at all.

The knife bandit staggers forward a couple more steps. His

hand goes limp and drops the knife.

And then his HEAD FALLS BACKWARD like a Pez dispenser. Almost

completely decapitated, but not quite. Blood fountains from

the neck stump as his body falls to the dirt.

Eli moves to the other two bandits who lay horribly wounded

on the ground, but still breathing. He stands over their

fallen bodies. They stare back up at him, helpless.

He crouches down between them in the dust.

The brigand leader defiantly spits blood at him.

Eli sighs. Stands and looks down on him without pity.

He plunges his sword into the bandit leader, finishing him

off. Pulls the arrow from his crotch and wipes it clean.

He turns to the other man, raising his sword.

Eli pauses, sword hovering over him, poised to strike.

Eli crouches once more by his side.

The bandit follows along with Eli, mouthing the words

quietly. The life ebbing from him with each moment.

His eyes roll back as his final breath leaves him. Dead. Eli

signs a cross over his body, then stands and walks away.

Solara sits on the ground nearby, a wreck. Eli approaches and

gathers her up in his arms. She clings on to him tightly.

She laughs, a tear rolling down her cheek. Grips him tighter.

He helps her up and escorts her back to the road.

She looks back at the young woman still slumped in the dirt.

They walk on down the road.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAY

METAL GARAGE DOORS roll back to reveal darkness within.

A PAIR OF HEADLIGHTS fires up. Full beam right at us.

A VEHICLE roars out of the darkness onto the street. Heavily

modified with plate armor and turret-mounted weapons. But its

original form still recognizable underneath.

It's a HONDA ODYSSEY minivan. Once the #1 choice of soccer

moms, transformed now into an armored personnel carrier.

Another minivan roars from the garage behind it. A DODGE

GRAND CARAVAN, similarly customized and armed to the teeth.

THREE MORE CARS follow. As eclectic an assortment as you

could imagine. A MINI COOPER. FORD EXPLORER. A PRIUS. Each

adorned with plate armor and weapons.

In the lead Minivan is REDRIDGE, heavily armed. He nods to

the DRIVER, who guns the engine.

The fleet of armored vehicles moves out, kicking up a great

funnel of dust in their wake as they roar out of town.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Late afternoon. The sun hangs low on the horizon. We're far

from the road. Nothing but scrub brush and a few PRAIRIE DOG

BURROWS dotted around.

A PRAIRIE DOG pops its head up, scans the horizon. Sniffing

the air, whiskers twitching... and is SKEWERED BY AN ARROW.

Thirty yards away, one of the pieces of scrub brush appears

to COME ALIVE. And then we realize it is Eli's GHILLIE SUIT,

camouflaging both he and Solara beneath it.

Eli casts off the camouflage net and walks toward the dead

prairie dog. Solara just stands there, appalled.

Eli picks up the dead animal by the scruff.

He yanks out the bloody arrow. Solara looks away.

When she turns back, Eli is standing right there, holding the

dead animal in front of her face. She YELPS in surprise and

staggers backward, falling on her butt.

EXT. WASTELAND CAVE - DUSK

Eli and Solara sit in the mouth of a desert cave, around a

flickering campfire. The prairie dog roasts on a spit.

Eli digs his knife into the carcass, the blade comes out

clean. It's done. He clasps his hands together and gazes down

penitently at the ground.

Eli carves off a piece of meat. Juicy and succulent. He bites

into it, teasing Solara by making a show of how good it

tastes. He feeds a piece to the rat perched on his shoulder.

Solara tries to appear uninterested, but she's starved.

He takes another bite, thinks on this as he chews.

She tries to fight the temptation to try it... but she can't.

She reaches out and tears off a piece. Sniffs at it, takes a

small bite... then quickly wolfs down the rest. Eli smiles.

As she eats, she gestures toward Eli's Saint Christopher.

Eli reaches up and touches his hand to it.

Eli smiles and shakes his head.

Solara listens, rapt. Eli is a good storyteller.

Solara looks at Eli tenderly, with admiration.

Eli looks away, down at the ground. He appears sad.

BEAT. No words, just the flickering firelight.

LATER - NIGHT

The fire down to its last embers. Eli sleeps next to his

pack, half-hidden in the looming shadows of the cave. His hat

and goggles hung up for the night on the hilt of his sword.

Solara sleeps nearby... then opens her eyes. Not asleep after

all. She looks over at Eli - his face hidden in shadow and so

impossible to tell if he's asleep or awake.

No response. Quietly, she moves forward, kneeling by his

side. She opens his coat and checks the pockets. Empty.

She goes deeper, peeling back the layers of clothing,

stealthily frisking him. She finds something on his lapel,

hidden under several layers, that causes her to stop.

It's a RECTANGULAR PLASTIC BADGE. The red, white and blue

colors faded and worn. It reads:

She stares at it for a moment, not knowing what to make of

it. Then moves on, continuing to pat him down.

Whatever she's looking for is not here. She turns her

attention to the backpack. Slowly, carefully, opens it up.

There it is. THE BIBLE, wrapped carefully in its neat little

package of cloth and twine. She reaches in for it.

Suddenly, ELI'S HAND SHOOTS OUT AND GRABS HER BY THE WRIST.

She cries out, startled. Eli sits up, his face just a dark

shape in the shadows. For the first time he appears a little

scary to Solara.

He's very forceful. She nods, a little afraid of him.

He grips her wrist tighter.

Eli releases her wrist. Takes the pack from her and closes it

up. Pulls it closer to him and lies back down.

She lies back down beside him, but doesn't close her eyes.

She just lies there, watching him.

EXT. WASTELAND - DAWN

The sun rises out of the east. And out of the sun comes the

FLEET OF ARMORED VEHICLES. Racing side-by-side down the road.

The lead vehicle comes to a halt. A door opens and Redridge

gets out. MORE ARMED MEN emerge from the other vehicles and

follow him as he marches into the wasteland by the roadside.

The DEAD BRIGANDS are splayed out in the dirt where Eli slew

them. A FLOCK OF BUZZARDS is picking their bones clean.

Redridge looks at the footprints in the dirt headed from the

bodies and back onto the road. Two sets of tracks.

He moves back to the cars.

The other men hold for a moment, still looking at the half-

eaten bodies in the dirt. Redridge turns back.

Hesitantly, they make their way back to the vehicles. The

cars gun their engines and move on down the road, past the

abandoned Chevron station. Dust pluming in their wake.

EXT. ROAD - DAY

Eli and Solara walk together, passing by a few burned-out

buildings. It appears we might be headed toward a town.

Solara looks up at the sweltering sun. Then around at her

surroundings. Nothing but devastation and decay.

Eli wheels around and jabs a scolding finger at her.

Solara is surprised by the severity of his reaction.

Eli resumes walking.

BEAT as Eli thinks on how to explain it.

Solara thinks about this, shakes her head.

They walk on.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

On the outskirts of a small town that lies in ruins. Almost

every building burned or reduced to rubble.

Except for one SMALL HOUSE. The building is damaged and worn

but in mostly decent condition. It stands out among its

surroundings for being the only structure still intact.

The windows are BARRED. The outer structure fortified with

SHEET METAL and other custom patch-ups. The whole plot

surrounded by a CHAIN-LINK FENCE TOPPED WITH RAZOR WIRE.

Eli and Solara crouch behind a pile of rubble nearby.

BEAT as Eli considers. Then stands and unhooks his shotgun.

They approach the house cautiously. Arrive at the perimeter

fence. There's a gate held in place by a PADLOCK.

Eli pulls a pair of BOLT-CUTTERS from his belt and snips the

padlock free. Swings open the gate with a metallic SQUEAK.

They move inside, up the garden path. Though the soil in the

yard is dead, it's been carefully raked and tended. WEEDS

arranged in thoughtful patterns, like real flowers.

Eli steps forward, his foot planting on a CRACKED PAVING

STONE that shifts almost imperceptibly under his feet.

Accompanied by a barely audible SOUND. He looks down.

A ROPE NOOSE suddenly whips around their feet, tightening at

their ankles and YANKING THEM UPSIDE-DOWN INTO THE AIR. Eli

drops his shotgun to the ground.

They hang there for a moment, twisting in the breeze.

The front door to the house SWINGS OPEN to reveal...

AN ELDERLY COUPLE. The woman's gray hair tied into a neat

bun. The man bald, squinting through wire-frame glasses. They

look like the couple from Grant Wood's "American Gothic."

Instead of a pitchfork the man holds a 12-GAUGE RIOT SHOTGUN

which he keeps trained from the hip on Eli and Solara.

They step outside, regarding their new visitors carefully.

The man seems more suspicious than his wife. He drags Eli's

shotgun toward him with his foot, hands it to his wife.

This seems to annoy the man.

Clearly he's proud of the work he's done with the pitiful

means at his disposal.

The wife steps forward, she's much warmer, less guarded.

The woman glares at him. The husband reluctantly accedes and

moves to the concealed trap apparatus. Releases the rope,

dropping Eli and Solara to the ground in a heap.

The old woman helps them to their feet. They shake off the

noose from their ankles.

Eli and Solara exchange a look. What the hell is this?

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAY

It's like something out of the world before. The interior is

almost perfectly preserved. Chintzy couches. A mahogany

table. A TV set in the corner. Lace curtains. Unreal.

Eli and Solara sit on the couch, feeling self-conscious and

looking entirely out of place in this cozy environment.

George sits across from them on the couch, scowling at them

inhospitably. The shotgun resting across his lap.

Martha emerges from the kitchen, carrying a tray laden with a

tea pot and old china cups. Cracked and faded, but intact.

She places the tray on the coffee table and sits.

She lifts the tea port and pours into the cups. But it's not

tea, only water. Somewhat murky water. Eli and Solara stare

at the cups, unsure. Martha gestures toward them.

They raise their cups and take a sip. Martha watches eagerly.

It's clearly a thrill for her to be doing something as

civilized and elegant as serving "tea" to guests.

Martha smiles, delighted. She lifts her own cup to her lips.

HER HANDS TREMBLE, the cup rattling against the saucer.

George just grunts. Not interested in conversation.

He stands and moves toward the back door. Opens it up and

beckons Eli and Solara to come look.

EXT. HOUSE - BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS

Eli and Solara stand in the doorway, looking out on the yard.

Solara is horrified by what she sees.

The entire back yard is a GRAVEYARD. Maybe twenty human

graves dug shallow into the earth. Some were dug long ago,

others look like they're very recent.

George and Martha go back inside, leaving Eli and Solara

gazing at the little graveyard.

Solara is stunned.

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Eli and Solara re-enter. Solara looks at George nervously.

He's still carrying that shotgun.

Martha's voice drifts in from the nearby KITCHEN.

An unnerving glint in his eye. Eli moves toward the door.

As he gets to the door, George moves to intercept. Hard to

tell if he's blocking his path or moving to open the door for

him. A tense BEAT.

Martha emerges from the kitchen.

Eli stares George down. Reluctantly, George steps aside. Eli

opens the door and escorts Solara outside.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Eli and Solara emerge into the sunlight. Walk down the garden

path. And FREEZE IN THEIR TRACKS.

THE ARMED VEHICLES ARE COMING. Driving toward them out of the

horizon in a hazy cloud of dust.

Eli bundles Solara back into the house. George stands in the

doorway, squinting at the approaching convoy.

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

George follows them back in, furious.

Martha rushes to the window, pulls aside the lace curtain.

Outside she sees the armored vehicles SCREECHING TO A HALT.

The men spill out from the vehicles and take cover behind

them, locking and loading weapons.

She rushes across the room, teeth gritted with determination.

She goes to the couch and yanks off the seat cushions.

Underneath is a WOODEN LID which she throws open to reveal:

A HUGE CACHE OF WEAPONS. Automatic rifles. Shotguns. Pistols.

Grenades. And enough ammunition for everything.

She pulls out an M-60 MACHINE-GUN, slings the strap over her

shoulder and locks in a CHAIN OF BULLETS. She looks like a

post-apocalyptic Martha Stewart.

George pulls out an AK-47, slots in a magazine.

He offers a .44 MAGNUM to Solara.

George sighs, turns instead to Eli.

Eli is already reloading his shotgun, checking the barrel.

Readying the weapon in the practiced manner of an expert.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Redridge steps forward, raises a BULLHORN.

SILENCE. No sign of activity inside the house.

Redridge turns back to his men. Their hands trembling. They

didn't sign up for this, and they're not ready for it.

Redridge turns back to the house. Into the bullhorn:

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Eli is crouched beneath the window. George and Martha have

taken up positions at other windows, peering out.

BEAT as Eli thinks.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Redridge waits. Still no sign of a response. His nervous

gunmen exchange worried looks.

Redridge raises his hand to silence him. Looks up as an

UPSTAIRS WINDOW slides open.

A CLOTH PACKAGE is tossed from the window. It lands in the

dirt outside the perimeter fence a few yards from Redridge.

Cautiously, he approaches. The package is wrapped in cloth

and tied up with twine. It looks like Eli's bible.

He picks it up and tugs at the twine, untying it. Folds away

the cloth wrapping. Looks for a moment in puzzlement at the

object, at the words written on the front of it.

It's a MINIATURE CLAYMORE MINE. The small red light on top of

the unit ILLUMINATES WITH A BEEP. Armed.

He drops the package in the dirt and races for his life back

toward the vehicles.

He dives across the trunk of the Explorer into cover as THE

MINE EXPLODES, SHATTERING EVERY WINDOW OF EVERY VEHICLE. The

lightweight Mini Cooper takes the main brunt and EXPLODES,

cartwheeling through the air, a burning wreck.

Redridge looks around. Three men lie dead already. Flaming

wreckage all around him. Suddenly, it's a war zone.

MACHINE-GUN FIRE ERUPTS FROM THE HOUSE, peppering the

vehicles' armor. The gunmen cower behind cover.

Redridge aims at the house and OPENS FIRE. Inspired by his

example, the others follow. A HAIL OF BULLETS CRISS-CROSS

BACK AND FORTH. The house's faded paint facade is shredded.

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Martha continues firing wildly with the M-60. Screaming at

the top of her lungs, loving every minute of it.

George and Eli also open fire from their windows,

periodically ducking to take cover from incoming fire.

Solara sits across the room, in the corner, sobbing.

MORE GUNFIRE splinters the window frame above his head.

She nods.

Eli peeks out and FIRES OUT THE WINDOW, dropping one of the

enemy gunmen with a crack shot. Ducks back down as the return

fire impacts around him.

Amidst all the chaos and gunfire, George has been listening

to this exchange.

BEAT.

BEAT. George chambers a round and RESUMES FIRING.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Redridge's men continue the hail of gunfire. Six of them dead

now, six more still standing. No lessening of fire from

inside the house. They're losing.

Redridge races between the vehicles, ducking from gunfire

until he makes it to the back of the Dodge Caravan. Pops the

trunk and pulls out a ROCKET-PROPELLED GRENADE LAUNCHER.

He sets it on his shoulder, rests on the trunk to steady his

aim. And FIRES. The rocket screams toward its target, tearing

through the chain fence and TEARING AN ENTIRE CORNER FROM THE

HOUSE in a fiery explosion.

INT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Filled with smoke. The sounds of COUGHING.

Dazed, George pushes his way through the smoke, waving his

arms to clear it. A BLOODY GASH on his forehead.

He finds her lying on the tile floor in what remains of the

kitchen. Or at least her top half. The rest of her is gone.

George slumps to his knees with tear-filled eyes. Takes his

wife tenderly by the hand for a moment.

Then the anger returns. He gets up and turns, consumed now by

a wild fury. Firing with rage over the torn brick wall. He

CLIPS ANOTHER GUNMAN IN THE HEAD, killing him.

George moves back toward the LIVING ROOM, firing as he goes.

EXT. HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Redridge moves between the cars again, staying behind cover.

George's hail of gunfire has them pinned down.

Redridge jumps into the driver's seat of the minivan, turns

the key in the ignition. Jams the accelerator down with the

butt of his rifle, then shifts the transmission into DRIVE.

The gunmen leap clear as the minivan HURTLES TOWARD THE

HOUSE, engine roaring. CRASHES THROUGH THE CHAIN FENCE.

INT. HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Eli looks up from cover and see the van coming RIGHT AT HIM.

He dives clear as the van CRASHES THROUGH THE WALL INTO THE

LIVING ROOM. It SMASHES INTO THE FAR WALL, finally coming to

a stop.

More dust and debris, more coughing. Eli tries to get up, but

winces in pain. Puts his hand to his side, it comes back WET

WITH BLOOD. A bad wound. He covers it with his coat, stands

and moves through the smoke.

He finds her in the smoke. She embraces him.

As the smoke clears, Solara sees George PINNED AGAINST THE

WALL BY THE MINIVAN. His body crushed. Dead.

As he helps her to her feet, we hear the sound of MOVEMENT

THROUGH THE RUBBLE.

They turn around. The gunmen are ENTERING THE HOUSE, passing

through the smoking hole left by the minivan.

Eli reaches for his sword. Met by the sound of MULTIPLE GUNS

COCKING. Redridge steps out from among the gunmen. Smiles.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Eli and Solara are shoved out of the house at gunpoint and

marched past the torn perimeter fence to the vehicles.

Eli has been stripped of his weapons and backpack. Redridge

faces him and points a pistol at his head.

BEAT. Eli doesn't answer. Redridge cocks the pistol.

Redridge stares him down. Eli just stares right back. Totally

unflappable. Redridge motions to his men.

The gunman carrying Eli's pack opens it up and tips its

contents out onto the ground. The ghillie suit, battery, some

old canned goods, other odds and ends. No sign of the book.

Redridge holsters his gun and frisks Eli, going through his

pockets. Finds nothing. He opens Eli's coat and checks the

inside pockets. Digs around deep inside.

And then suddenly he SHRIEKS IN PAIN. Yanks his hand out to

reveal ELI'S RAT, TEETH SUNK DEEP INTO HIS FLESH.

Redridge flails around violently, trying to get the rat off

him, but it won't let go. His hand is bleeding badly.

He finally manages to shake it free. It hits the floor dazed.

Redridge STOMPS ON IT with his boot, reducing it to a bloody

smear in the dirt. Eli lowers his head in sadness.

Redridge clutches his bloody hand, glares at Eli furiously.

Pulls his gun again and marches right up to him, pressing the

muzzle tight against his forehead.

His finger tightens on the trigger.

She breaks from the gunmen holding her and rushes toward

Redridge. Reaches inside her dress and PRODUCES THE BIBLE.

Satisfied, Redridge takes the book. Runs his hand over the

leather cover, gazes admiringly at the gold-embossed cross.

Solara looks at Eli guiltily. She feels terrible.

Solara stands between him and Eli. Deadly serious now.

Solara glares at Redridge. He sighs. He can tell she means

it. It's not worth the aggravation. He turns back to Eli.

Eli gathers up his stuff into his pack. Shoulders it and goes

to pick up his sword, but Redridge puts his boot on it.

Eli still has a half-dozen guns trained on him. He turns and

walks away, toward the road. As he passes Solara:

A tear runs down Solara's cheek as she watches him walk away.

Redridge grabs her by the arm and pulls her toward the

vehicles as his men load up and prepare to move out.

IN THE REARMOST VEHICLE

Solara sits in the back seat, staring out the rear window as

it drives down the road at the tail end of the convoy.

She watches as Eli moves away down the road, getting smaller

and smaller until he is just a speck on the horizon.

She bursts into floods of uncontrollable tears.

LATER

Solara in the back seat, calmer now. The tears dried on her

cheeks. She sits staring blankly at the DRIVER in front.

And then she LUNGES VIOLENTLY FORWARD. Clawing and biting at

the driver, who struggles to fight her off. His hands come

off the wheel and the car FISHTAILS WILDLY.

REDRIDGE'S VEHICLE

The DRIVER sees something odd in the rear-view mirror.

Redridge turns to see the car behind VEERING ERRATICALLY then

SLAMMING ON THE BRAKES, stopping in the middle of the road.

The car screeches to a halt. Redridge watches through the

rear window as the driver's side door opens and the driver is

KICKED OUT ONTO THE ASPHALT.

The door closes again, the engine revs and the car TURNS

AROUND, racing back down the road in the direction it came.

BEAT. Redridge knows he's right.

The car moves on, following the rest of the convoy.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Solara screeches the car to a halt outside the smoking

wreckage of the besieged house. She runs from the vehicle to

where ELI'S SWORD lies in the dirt and grabs it up.

EXT. ROAD - DUSK

Solara races down the road in the car, pedal to the metal.

Eventually, she sees him. At first just a dot on the horizon.

But unmistakably Eli. By now, she'd know him anywhere.

Suddenly the engine SPLUTTERS. She checks the fuel gauge; the

needle deep in the red. She pounds the wheel in frustration.

The car grinds to a halt, dead. She flings open the door and

leaps out of the vehicle, rushing after Eli on foot.

ON ELI. As always, his pace steady and slow. The sun directly

ahead of him as it sets on the horizon. Headed always west.

Solara is running up behind him, a hundred yards back.

He doesn't stop or look back. Just keeps on walking.

She finally catches up with him, breathing hard, exhausted.

BEAT.

She continues walking alongside him. Trying to process this.

This kind of compassion is totally foreign to her.

She holds out the sword, offering it to Eli by way of

atonement.

Eli seems appreciative that she would think to return it to

him. He takes it and slings it over his shoulder.

They walk on together, into the sunset.

EXT. NORTHERN CALIFORNIA - MONTAGE - DAY

Eli and Solara follow the road through burned-out towns and

retail neighborhoods. Gutted and dead, like every place else.

But something is different here. Things are greener. Tufts of

grass here and there. They attract Solara's attention.

Eli reaches down and runs his hand through the grass.

They keep walking. Eli groans, clutches his side. Does his

best to hide his pain from Solara. She notices anyway.

EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT

They walk on through the night. Eli stops and sniffs the air.

EXT. CALIFORNIA ROAD - DAWN

They keep on along the road. A shallow uphill incline. They

follow it uphill, finally reaching its crest, where they stop

and take in the view before them.

THE PACIFIC OCEAN. Straddled by the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - the

once-great structure has partially collapsed from decades of

neglect and disrepair. The span sags and hangs low over the

ocean, the asphalt cracked and ruptured.

On the other side of the bay, SAN FRANCISCO - or the little

that remains of it. The city has been almost TOTALLY

DESTROYED - entire areas reduced to rubble, the few buildings

still standing looking on the verge of collapse.

Solara looks at it all in horrified awe. Eli, unperturbed,

keeps on moving, still clutching his side.

EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - DAY

Eli and Solara make their way south across the bridge, side-

stepping the fractures in the road.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO RUINS - DAY

Eli leads Solara through the rubble of what used to be San

Francisco. It's like walking through the wreckage of 9/11's

Ground Zero, but a hundred times the scale. Horrifying.

They pass by the wreckage of a HOTEL, nothing but the lobby

still standing. A HILTON sign protruding from the rubble.

Eli uses his sheathed sword as a walking stick, poking around

ahead of him for loose rubble underfoot. He steps carefully.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - FINANCIAL DISTRICT - DAY

More buildings are still standing here, but they're nothing

more than great dead monoliths. Solara looks up at the

blasted skyscrapers - she's never seen anything like it.

The buildings loom over her like giant tombstones. It scares

her - like walking through the graveyard of a dead world.

They keep walking, passing the TOPPLED TRANSAMERICA PYRAMID.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - FISHERMAN'S WHARF - DAY

Once a bustling oceanside tourist spot, now a ghost town.

Eli and Solara walk along the litter-strewn street, passing

the old RIPLEY'S BELIEVE-IT-OR-NOT and WAX MUSEUMS. The

celebrity mannequins are still in fair condition, but slumped

at their feet are CHARRED HUMAN SKELETONS.

Eli is struggling now. He looks pale from the blood loss. His

breathing labored. Solara takes him by the arm to help him.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO - PIER 39 - DAY

A dead, ruined place, like everywhere else. We hear the sound

of SEAGULLS nearby - the only sign of life at all.

Eli and Solara walk along the pier, until they reach its end.

The original end has long since collapsed into the sea, but a

RICKETY HAND-MADE ROPE BRIDGE has been affixed to the pier's

sheared-off edge.

Eli and Solara stand at the pier's end, looking out to sea.

Reveal now that the rope-bridge leads out across the bay to:

ALCATRAZ ISLAND

Looking much the same as it always has, old and dilapidated.

The coastal fog shrouding it gives it an ethereal look. It

feels almost like a mythic place - the "promised land" Eli

has sought for so many years.

A tattered STARS AND STRIPES still flutters in the breeze

atop the prison lighthouse.

EXT. BAY ROPE BRIDGE - DAY

Eli and Solara make their way carefully across the bridge. It

feels highly unstable and sags low over the bay, the waters

below close enough to lap around their ankles.

EXT. ALCATRAZ ISLAND - DAY

Eli and Solara arrive at the prison gates. Securely locked.

As they inspect it for a possible way to enter:

They look up. A GUARD in paramilitary fatigues is stationed

in one of the perimeter towers. Training a rifle on them.

In the opposite tower ANOTHER GUARD has his rifle trained on

them too. Eli looks up, raises his hands.

BEAT.

Keeping the gun trained on them, the tower guard uses his

free hand to talk into a WALKIE-TALKIE RADIO. We don't hear

the conversation. All Eli and Solara can do is wait.

The guard puts away his radio and shouts back down:

BEAT. And then the massive front gates SLOWLY OPEN ON

MECHANICAL RUNNERS with the low groan of rusted iron.

Eli and Solara look at each other, then step gingerly inside.

INT. ALCATRAZ - MAIN GATES - CONTINUOUS

As soon as they step inside they are SURROUNDED BY DOZENS OF

HEAVILY-ARMED SOLDIERS. Not U.S. military, more like a semi-

official militia. But every bit as deadly.

Eli and Solara raise their hands. A pair of SOLDIERS take

Eli's pack and sword, pat them both down for other weapons.

The soldiers before them part - to reveal a THIN, BALDING MAN

wearing spectacles. He wears Kevlar body armor over his tweed

jacket and tie. Professorial, academic.

He approaches, shakes Eli's hand vigorously - very excited.

He turns back to Eli.

Solara looks at Eli, puzzled. Lombardi finds it hard to

contain his excitement.

He leads them across the courtyard into the prison buildings.

EXT. DESERT TOWN - MAIN STREET - DAY

Redridge's remaining vehicles drive back into town and come

to a halt outside the theater. Redridge emerges from his car,

carrying the bible. Walks up to the Palladium and enters.

INT. ALCATRAZ - CELL BLOCK - DAY

What was once a cell block is now an IMMENSE LIBRARY. Stacked

floor to ceiling with books. Lombardi shows Eli and Solara

around. Behind them, a pair of ARMED GUARDS follow closely.

Solara is stunned as she surveys the endless stacks of books.

She's never seen anything like it.

Lombardi raises a quizzical eyebrow.

BEAT. Lombardi appears sad for a moment.

Lombardi looks at Eli with anticipation. So does Solara,

interested to know where this is going to go next.

Eli winces in pain, puts his hand to his side.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

Redridge appears. Carnegie looks at him eagerly.

Redridge holds the bible up proudly. Carnegie beams.

Redridge hands it over. Carnegie sits back in his chair,

running his hand lovingly over the battered leather cover.

He opens the book and looks inside.

BEAT. And then he looks up at Redridge, confused.

INT. ALCATRAZ - CAFETERIA - DAY

Eli, Solara and Lombardi sit at one of the long lunch-room

tables. The two armed guards keep watch nearby.

He pulls a pen from his pocket, motions to one of the guards.

The guard nods and moves toward the door. As he does so:

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

Carnegie looks at the open bible, jaw hanging loose, his

complexion ashen. Like he's just been slapped in the face.

INT. ALCATRAZ - CAFETERIA - DAY

The guard brings a THICK SHEAF OF WRITING PAPER to the

cafeteria table, sets it down by Lombardi.

Eli removes his goggles. Solara can't believe what she sees.

His eyes are pale, milky-white, dead. TOTALLY BLIND.

Lombardi hurriedly writes down every word.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - CARNEGIE'S BOX

Carnegie sits at his desk, still in shock. Eli's bible sits

open on the desk before him.

A BRAILLE BIBLE.

Claudia is ushered in by a guard.

He rushes forward and thrusts the bible into her hands.

As Carnegie hunts on his desk for a paper and pen, Claudia

opens the book and trails her fingertips across the raised

lettering.

For a moment there is a glimmer of recognition... a faint

smile... but then it fades as Carnegie turns back to her,

eagerly clutching the writing materials.

Carnegie is aghast. BEAT as the anger swells within him,

threatening to explode...

He swipes violently at the bible, knocking it out of

Claudia's hands. He grabs it up and tries to rip it in two,

but it's too thick to tear. Red-faced with rage, he tosses it

out over the box balcony. It lands somewhere in the dark

auditorium below, between the rows of gutted theater seats.

As he paces angrily back past Claudia:

He slumps in his chair, exhausted and furious. Claudia sadly

turns and leaves him alone with his thoughts.

INT. ALCATRAZ - CAFETERIA - NIGHT

Some considerable time later. Great stacks of paper have been

filled with Lombardi's handwriting.

Lombardi's pen races across the paper, struggling to keep up

with Eli's recitation.

Solara is curled up on a nearby bench, asleep. Eli's coat

covering her to keep her warm.

Eli clutches his wound painfully as he continues to recite.

He looks paler now than ever. Close to death.

EXT. ALCATRAZ - EXERCISE YARD - PRE-DAWN

The prison yard shrouded in the dim light just before dawn.

Solara crosses the yard. She looks more mature somehow.

Determined and strong. She carries with her ELI'S SWORD - and

something else, tucked under her arm.

She stops in a nondescript corner of the yard.

At her feet is a SHALLOW MOUND OF DIRT. At the head of the

mound, a SIMPLE TOMBSTONE.

She kneels and places a SINGLE FLOWER on the grave.

INT. PALLADIUM - CARNEGIE'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lit only by the pale moonlight, barely enough to see by.

Carnegie sleeps soundly in bed. Next to him lies Claudia,

wide awake. She checks that Carnegie is sound asleep, careful

not to wake him before she creeps out of bed and exits.

INT. PALLADIUM AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

Claudia is on her hands and knees in the darkness, searching

blindly in the aisles and beneath the theater seats.

She finds Eli's bible in some litter strewn on the floor.

Sitting in the darkness, Claudia opens the book and runs her

fingers across the braille, reading. And though we can barely

see in the dim light, we see the smile on her face. The joy.

EXT. ALCATRAZ - EXERCISE YARD - DAWN

As Solara kneels by the grave, we see now that she wears

Eli's SAINT CHRISTOPHER PENDANT around her neck.

The tombstone reads:

She unsheathes Eli's sword, plants it in the ground before

his grave. Takes the BOOK from under her arm and opens it up.

It's a NEW BIBLE. Crudely typeset from Lombardi's original

transcription and printed on the prison press.

She opens it up and begins to read a passage from the bible

over Eli's grave. We don't hear what she says.

As Solara finishes her reading and closes the bible, LOMBARDI

appears behind her.

She stands, pulling Eli's sword from the earth.

BEAT. Solara looks at the sword, her fingers playing across

its hilt. The blade glimmers in the light of the rising sun.

There is a determined, purposeful look in her eye.

EXT. ALCATRAZ ISLAND - DAWN

The sun rises through the fog on the horizon.

The great iron gates grind open. Solara emerges from inside

the prison, steps out onto the island rock.

She is dressed in a flak jacket, combat pants and boots.

Eli's old pack across her back. Hair tied in a neat pony

tail. Atop that, Eli's ragged fur hat.

In her hand she clutches a copy of the newly-printed bible.

Eli's sword slung over her shoulder.

MONTAGE as Solara walks back along Fisherman's Wharf...

through the San Francisco rubble... across the Golden Gate

bridge...

EXT. ROAD - DAY

...and finally back onto a desolate road leading off into the

desert wasteland. She looks up and down the road, then turns

and heads toward the sun on the horizon. Headed east.

As she walks away into the sun, her lonely silhouette on the

road reminds us of Eli as we saw him so many times before.

She grows smaller and smaller as she walks into the distance,

until she consumed by the rising sun and we

