EXT. YUAN COMPOUND - DAY

Security men and porters are loading wagons for a convoy.

As they work, we see across the lake a lone horseman entering

the village.  One of the men recognizes him.

ANGLE ON: Li Mu Bai, thirties, powerful and handsome.

In the background, old Aunt Wu, at the sight of Li Mu Bai,

drops her parcels and runs excitedly into the building.

INT. YUAN HALLWAY - DAY

Aunt Wu runs hurriedly through the halls.

INT. YU'S ROOM - DAY

Yu, a beautiful woman in her early 30s, is finishing packing

for the convoy, wrapping a few small items in a linen

wrapper, as Aunt Wu bursts in.

INT. YUAN PRACTICE HALL - DAY

Yu sits, composed, as Aunt Wu ushers Li in.  Li carries a

large object, wrapped in silk.

Yu smiles.

An awkward pause.

Li unwraps the object.  It is an ancient, astonishingly

beautiful sword.

Li doesn't reply.

EXT. THE GATE TO PEKING. DAY

Customs officials have just finished checking the contents

in a row of carriages bearing the Sun Security insignia.

The caravan slowly passes through the checkpoint into the

boundaries of Peking.  Yu, riding a handsome horse and

clearly the leader, watches as her crew clears inspection.

EXT. OUTSIDE A DEPOT. DAY

Workers are busy unloading the contents from the carriages.

Boss Giao is checking off the merchandise -- a cargo of

medicinal herbs.

EXT. DAY. PEKING

From a gray tiled roof, we can see Peking's magnificent grid

of houses extending miles and miles out, freshly painted by

the morning sun.

EXT. PEKING STREET. DAY

Dusty and congested as always, people, horses, and carriages

are fighting to get through the boulevards.

A group of jugglers perform at a corner.

Yu surveys the busy street from on top of her horse.

INT. TE'S GREAT HALL - DAY

Yu presents the sword to Sir Te.

De Lu, the head servant, enters.

INT. TE'S STUDY - DAY

Yu and De Lu approach the study.

De Lu opens the door and is startled to find a young woman

inside.  The woman is studying the sheets of calligraphy

hanging on the walls.

INT. TE'S STUDY - DAY

Yu gently lays the sword, still in its sheath, in Jen's hands.

Yu yanks the sword out of the sheath.  An eerie sound

resonates within the study.  Jen is even more impressed.

Yu puts the sword back in the case.

Yu studies Jen.  The room falls silent for a moment.

EXT. SIDE COURT YARD - DAY

It's dusk and the sky is beautiful orange and purple.  Jen

is leaving the study escorted by her maid.  She turns to Yu

for a final good-bye.  Yu seems intrigued by the encounter.

EXT. SIR TE'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Two lighted lanterns are raised up.

INT. TE'S STUDY - NIGHT

Sir Te hands the sword to Governor Yu.

Governor Yu is impressed by the opulence and elegance of the

sword.  He closes his eyes to guess the weight of the sword.

Te snubs out the flame from a candle, then slides the sword

out from its sheath.  The sword gives off a luminous blue

glow in the dark.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

A maid warms her hands in a basin of hot water for Jen, then

walks over to Jen and helps remove her earrings.  Someone

knocks and the maid goes to answer the door.

The maid leaves as the governess enters the room.

Jen shoots her an angry look.

She's about to say something, then thinks better of it.

The governess leaves.  Jen sits on the side of her bed,

thinking.

EXT. TE'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

A wide shot of the compound.  A patrol man greets Master Bo,

Sir Te's head of security.  The place is serene.

As Bo walks on, shadows rustle in a treetop in the background.

EXT./INT. INSIDE AND OUTSIDE OF TE'S STUDY - NIGHT

A masked figure silently opens the window and enters the

room.  It moves swiftly to the sword case, opens it, and

wraps the sword.

Bo enters, sees the thief, who leaps up to the ceiling.  The

thief steps over Bo and out into the courtyard.  Bo tries to

stop the thief, who easily outwits him, jumping onto the

roof as Bo yells out.

The thief skips a few times and jumps off to a side street.

Bo grabs a pole and runs, as gongs begin to sound, alerting

people to the theft.  People rush outside, Yu Shu Lien among

them.

EXT. PEKING STREET - NIGHT

Bo runs through the streets.  The thief is nowhere in sight.

Suddenly, there are sounds of weapons clashing.  Bo hurries

towards the source.

EXT. AN ALLEY OUTSIDE GOVERNOR YU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Bo is surprised to see the hooded figure battling with two

other fighters -- Tsai (male, 40s) and May, his daughter.

The hooded figure does a gravity defying flip and soars over

a wall, just as Bo arrives.

EXT. PEKING ROOFTOP - NIGHT

The thief runs atop a roof -- right into Yu.  Yu and the

hooded figure face off.

The figure just regards her, slightly shifting weight.

Yu attacks, but the figure repels her.

The figure answers by leaping to another rooftop.  Yu

catches up, and resumes her attack with a relentless series

of lightning-quick blows.

EXT. ALLEY OUTSIDE GOVERNOR YU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Bo follows Tsai and May, who are quickly walking away.

May wants to respond but is again cut off by Tsai.  They run

off.

Bo looks around and discovers he had chased the thief into

Governor Yu's compound.

EXT. ROOF TOP

Yu and the Black Figure continue to fight.

EXT. GOVERNOR YU'S - NIGHT

Yu slowly gets the upper hand in her fight with the thief.

A small arrow cuts across the night and flies toward Yu.

She catches it, but the masked figure takes the opportunity

to get away.

Yu pauses to feel the arrow in her hand, standing in the

empty courtyard.

EXT. TE'S SIDE ENTRANCE - DAY

De Lu escorts Yu into Te's.

INT. TE'S GREAT HALL - DAY

Men are standing at attention.  Bo is giving his account of

what happened, as Yu enters.

The men hustle out.  Bo can barely contain his frustration.

EXT. OUTSIDE GOVERNOR YU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Madam Yu is returning from temple.  The governess is helping

her out of the carriage.  Servants are peeling bills off a

wall across the street.

A partially torn flyer with the words "Jade Fox will not

escape justice!" is seen on the ground.

Madam Yu nods and walks inside, as the Governess tosses the

flyer away and follows her.

A hand scoops up the flyer -- it is Yu.  She studies it,

then puts it in her pocket, and moves on.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY

Bo is searching for the Tsais.  The bridge is full of

jugglers.  But the two are nowhere to be found.

EXT. PEKING STREET - DAY

Bo quizzes a homeless man.

Bo is about to give up when he looks up and sees May walking

quickly into an alley.  Bo follows her.

EXT. IN FRONT OF TSAI'S HOUSE

May walks into a dilapidated house surrounded by a broken-

down bamboo fence.  Bo inches closer and sees May and Tsai

oiling their weapons.

INT. BO'S ROOM - DAY

Jen practices calligraphy.  The governess is by her side

embroidering and throwing occasional glances at Jen.  The

maid enters.

Jen stops and looks up at them.

The governess shoots her a look.

The governess gets up to leave just as the maid shows Yu in.

The governess and Yu exchange quick glances.  The governess

bows slightly and departs.

Yu sees the calligraphy.

Jen writes Yu's name with great confidence and swiftness.

Jen freezes slightly.

The maid enters with tea.

EXT. YU'S GARDEN - DAY

The maid escorts Yu out.  Yu pauses, looks around, and sees

the profile of the Governess peering at her from around a

corner.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Moonlight spills into the room, as Jen rises sleeplessly

from bed and looks out the window.  A light breeze stirs her

hair.  The sound of the wind rises, and slowly her face

dissolves, into...

INT./EXT. CARRIAGE/MONGOLIAN DESERT - DAY

...the face of a younger, less sophisticated Jen, as she

lets the dry desert air flow through her hair.  She sits in

a carriage, part of a caravan, with guards on horseback,

that is traveling through the spectacular desert.  Across

from her sits her mother, of whom she is barely cognizant.

Jen is still looking out the side of the carriage, at a

beautiful mountainside.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jen sighs, and turns back toward her bed.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE GOVERNOR YU'S COMPOUND - NIGHT

Tsai and May have been sitting, hidden in the branches of a

tree, watching Jen.

They drop down silently and walk away.  From another rooftop,

Lo looks silently on.

EXT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Tsai and May enter the house.

INT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Inside the tiny house, they discover a hooded figure going

through their belongings.

Immediately Tsai throws a knife, which rips off the figure's

mask -- revealing Bo.  Tsai has another long knife at his

throat.

Tsai pauses.

INT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT (LATER)

May fans a small coal-fired grill that is boiling a sizzling

pot of vegetable and meatball soup.  Her father and Bo are

now friendly dinner companions, much to May's delight.

Bo fishes into the pot with his chopsticks.  May intercepts

him with her own chopsticks.

Tsai stiffens and snaps his chopsticks, not to pick up a

meatball but to catch an incoming dart.  A dart wrapped with

a note.  Bo jumps up.

INT. TE'S STUDY - NIGHT

Yu is ushered into the room, to discover Sir Te talking to

another man, whose back is to her.

The man turns around -- it's Li Mu Bai.

EXT. TE'S HALL - NIGHT

Yu and Li Mu Bai sit together.

From her sleeve, Yu removes the flyer.  Li takes it, his

face darkening.

Yu pauses.

De Lu enters.

EXT. YELLOW HILL - NIGHT

Tsai, Bo, and May wait under an ancient tree.  Bo stifles a

yawn.

An old lady struggles up the hill, wearing a floppy hat over

her face, holding a cane.  The three exchange glances.

The old woman shrinks in fear, but then throws off her

disguise and unveils herself -- the Governess.

A fierce battle begins, the main fighting between Tsai and

Fox, with May and Bo getting a stab in occasionally, when

the opportunity presents itself.

Using acupressure, Fox disables Bo.  May shoots an arrow at

her, but she catches it and flings it back, hitting May.

Fox then disables Tsai, but just as she goes for the kill,

Li Mu Bai flies down from the treetops and steps between them.

Li addresses Fox.

Li easily brings Fox to the ground.

Li raises his sword to the prostrate Fox.  A figure masked

in black appears next to Fox, sword extended, saving her.

Fox fights Tsai, Bo, and May, as Li addresses the masked

figure.

Tsai throws his blade at Fox, who catches it and throws it

back, hitting him in the head.  Fox and the masked figure

leap away.

May drops to the ground, cradling her dead father's head.

Bo kneels beside her.

EXT. TE'S - DAY

Te and a group of his men look down as a cloth is removed

from over the body of Tsai.  Bo and May stand before them.

He exits the room.

INT. TE'S STUDY - DAY

Te, Li, and Yu are seated.

Sir Te and Li look puzzled.

EXT. SIR TE'S GARDEN - DAY

Yu sits with Madam Yu and Jen.  They busy themselves with

various items for her trousseau.

Jen sits silently reading.

Jen becomes visibly upset.

As Yu speaks, she lifts the tea pot to pour Jen some tea.

As she finishes speaking, she looks into Jen's face and the

pot slips from her hand.  Without even looking down, Jen

instinctively catches the pot with a lightning-fast move.

Sir Te and Li Mu Bai walk by.

Li sizes Jen up.

EXT. TSAI'S HOUSE - NIGHT

May opens her door, only to find Bo standing guard.

She turns back inside, hesitates, then turns back to him.

EXT. TE COMPOUND - NIGHT

A still, dark night.

EXT. TE'S STUDY - NIGHT

Something moves in the moonlight.  A hooded figure jumps down.

Li Mu Bai, who had been hiding in the shadows, comes forward.

The masked figure lunges away, but Li Mu Bai leaps with

incredible speed and grabs the sword from her.

The figure floats away.  Li chases after her.

EXT. PEKING STREET - NIGHT

The two fly over houses and bounce off of rooftops,

displaying amazing floating skills.

INT. ABANDONED MONASTERY - NIGHT

The figure bounces into an old monastery.  Li is already

there.

The figure doesn't respond, but we sense the pride in her

eyes.

EXT. MONASTERY - NIGHT

The figure leaps into the garden, but again, Li is ahead of

her.

The figure attacks Li, who uses his agility to evade her.

Frustrated, the figure intensifies her attack.

The figure, losing composure, attacks wildly.  Li gets even

more elusive, using a branch to repel her.

Li now holds the stick to her mask, gently raising it

slightly.

The figure's eyes cloud with tears.

The figure swirls and takes off, leaving a rueful Li standing

alone in the monastery.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jen slips in through the window.  She pulls off her mask, as

she spots the Governess/Fox sitting and sewing.

Jen lunges at the Governess, and the two exchange a few

blows.  Jen presses her finger against one of the Governess's

pressure points, disabling her.  Jen pushes her across the

room.

Fox exits.

EXT. GOVERNOR YU'S GATE - DAY

The Governess leaves, a small sack over her back.

EXT. TE'S COURTYARD - DAY

Li practices fluently with Green Destiny in hand, beautifully

at ease with the weapon.  He spins around to find Yu standing

in the doorway.

Li smiles.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jen is asleep.  A noise awakens her.

Lo opens the window and sneaks in -- right into the point of

Jen's waiting sword.

Jen's sword drops to the ground.

Lo grabs her by the wrist.

Jen turns back to him and rests herself briefly in his arms

again.

FLASHBACK: FOUR YEARS EARLIER

INT./EXT. CARRIAGE/MONGOLIAN DESERT - DAY

Jen holds up a comb, with daylight shining through it.  Jen

admires the piece, her most prized possession.

Madam Yu sits opposite her.

Jen looks out over the desert, as the wind picks up and the

sky darkens.

EXT. CARRIAGE/MONGOLIAN DESERT - DAY

Lo and a group of armed bandits descend on the caravan.

His warning is useless.  From Jen's pov, we see the guards

slaughtered in a hail of arrows and swords.

Though unharmed, Madam Yu immediately faints.  Lo approaches

the carriage and grabs the comb from Jen's hand.

She bolts from the carriage, and, once outside, bends down

and grabs a lance from the body of a dead guard, whose horse

flails beside him.

She looks up to see the gang of bandits already making their

escape on horseback.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Jen and Lo ride across the desert floor at breakneck speed.

She tries to jab him with the lance, but he grabs it and

flings her off her horse.

Lo rides on as she charges after her horse.

EXT. DESERT BLUFF - DAY

A group of bandits is dividing up the loot, as Jen rides up,

keeping a respectable distance.  They notice her and rise as

she dismounts.

One of them saunters over to her and stands, grinning, a few

feet away.

In a second, she's slammed his balls into his stomach and

knocked his nose into his face.  He crumples to the sand.

The other bandits stop laughing, quickly exchange glances,

and charge her at once.

In a matter of seconds, they're either on the ground or

dragging their fallen comrades back.

Lo calls out and stops the fight.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Lo and Jen ride, if not side-by-side, then parallel, about

20 feet apart.  Their pace has slowed considerably.  In

fact, they're dead tired.

He dismounts, looks down at the dry creek bed.

She kicks him.  They fight ferociously until Lo, exhausted,

collapses.  She kicks him a few times, then collapses too.

INT. CAVE - DAY

Jen comes to and finds herself wrapped in a blanket of

animal fur.  She sits up with a start and checks her clothes.

Looking around, she realizes she's in a cave.  Next to her

are a lamp, some hunting equipment, and a neat row of sharp

arrows.  She quickly grabs one of the arrows.

Jen raises one of the arrows, going on the attack again, but

her legs betray her and she falls.

He helps her up, then pours her some horse milk from a sac.

He hands her a small chunk of food, which she first accepts

grudgingly, then, her hunger getting the better of her, she

starts to wolf it down.

EXT. CAVE - DAY

Lo walks out into a barren mountain landscape.  A chicken

roasts over a fire.  Lo whistles.

Jen appears suddenly with a rock and knocks it over his head.

Lo passes out as Jen scurries away.

EXT. MOUNTAINSIDE AND DESERT - DAY

Jen tries to find her way among the treacherous stony

terrain, her lips chapped and fingers bloody and blistered.

But soon she passes out.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

Jen again awakes inside the cave.  Lo tries to feed her some

water, but she chokes, and tries to push him away, only to

find that her legs and hands are tied up.

Jen spits at Lo.

Later: She weaves in and out of consciousness.  In the

flickering lights, she sees Lo sharpening his arrows.

Later, he pulls back an opaque curtain to reveal a makeshift

bathroom -- a water-filled cavity serves as a tub.

He rises as Jen sobs at the sight of her imprisoned and

dishevelled body.  He comes over and unties her.

Jen nods and the bandit releases her.  He starts to sing as

he walks out.  Jen waits until the sound recedes before

closing the curtain behind her and dipping into the pit.

While she bathes, she listens to his singing, a loud

rendition of a tribal song.  Lo apparently doesn't remember

all the lyrics, and la-las his way through more than a few

passages.  Jen smiles.

INT. CAVE - NIGHT

Jen grimaces as Lo pulls the last of some cactus needles

from the soles of her feet.

Jen impulsively grabs an arrow and stabs Lo, drawing a

little blood from his chest.  Furious, Lo lunges at her and

they tussle briefly.  Finally, Lo gets on top of Jen, and

the scuffling becomes more like foreplay.  Violence turns

into unleashed passion.

EXT. DESERT OASIS - DAY

Lo and Jen ride across the desert.  Jen holds tightly to him.

EXT. CAVE - NIGHT

Lo and Jen lie in the bath together.

Lo pauses.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Lo sees uniformed men through his binoculars.

Jen doesn't respond.

EXT. DESERT - DAY

Lo and Jen ride through a mountain pass.

EXT. CLIFF - DAY

Lo and Jen stand at the crest of a cliff.  Lo looks over,

viewing the desert valley below, as Jen joins him.  They see

a troop of uniformed men riding by in the distance.

Jen bites her lip.

INT. TENT - DAY

Jen and Lo kiss.  Jen takes the jade comb out of her hair

and presses it into his palm.  Jen starts to cry.  They

embrace.

EXT. TENT - DAY

Jen quietly walks out and stands sadly in the early morning

light.

End of flashback.

INT. JEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Jen is about to respond when a servant's voice is heard from

outside the door.

Lo hovers at the window frame.

Jen pauses.

Lo thrusts a small object in her hand.

He lifts his legs through the window, and drops out of

sight, just as Jen's door is opened from the hall.

The maid pauses, then dutifully exits, closing the door.

Jen opens up her palm; gasping, she sees the comb that Lo

has given her.

EXT. WEDDING PROCESSION - DAY

The noise and color of a wedding procession.  A marching

band heralds the occasion, as throngs of onlookers fight to

get a glimpse of the groom, Gou Jun Pei, who trots by on a

handsome white horse.

INT. WEDDING CARRIAGE - DAY

Jen's head is completely covered in red cloth, as she rides

silently in the bride's carriage.

EXT. BALCONY OVERLOOKING WEDDING PROCESSION - DAY

Li and Yu watch the festivities from a balcony of the city

gate.

INT. WEDDING CARRIAGE - DAY

A small arrow flies into the carriage.  Jen calmly lifts the

red cloth from her face and pulls the arrow out of the

panelling inside the carriage.

We hear Lo's voice from outside the carriage, but Jen

doesn't seem to notice.

Lo runs wildly into the crowd.

The guards surround Lo, but he escapes.

EXT. BEIJING STREET - DAY

Lo leaps and lands right in front of Li Mu Bai, his fingers

pressed against Lo's neck.  Yu comes running around the

corner and sees them.

Yu jumps in and pushes Li away.

INT. CITY OUTSKIRTS - DAY

Lo sits dejectedly, having told his story to Yu and Li, who

look him over.

EXT. TE COMPOUND - NIGHT

Yu and Li enter, as other men and women race through the

compound, a sense of panic in the air.  Yu gives Li a look.

Li shrugs.

INT. TE'S HALL - NIGHT

A crowd, including Li and Yu, stand by as Te opens the empty

sword case, his voice rising.

Bo bursts into the hall, bows to Te.

INT. TEA STALL - DAY

Jen arrives at the tea stall.  She places her sword on the

table, which catches the attention of a couple of Giang Hu

martial arts characters sitting nearby.

As the waitress turns to leave, Jen grabs her by the arm.

The flustered waitress apologizes and takes the cup away.

The men approach Jen.

The two men exchange glances.

The two pull out their weapons which are immediately chopped

into scraps by Jen.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Li and Yu pass a cup back and forth as Bo tends to the

horses in the background.

As Yu passes the cup to Li, their fingers touch.

Embarrassed, Li pulls back.

Li takes Yu's hand and presses it to his face.

Li Mu Bai smiles.

INT. STAR RESTAURANT - DAY

Jen walks upstairs.  A waiter greets her.

Jen again sets her sword on the table as she sits down.

The waiter gauges Jen for an instant before bouncing off to

place the orders.  Jen checks her pouch and sees there's not

much money left.

A large group of Giang Hu characters enters.  They survey

the restaurant and quickly find Jen upstairs.

Jen ignores him.

Mi charges and attacks Jen, who is still sitting sipping tea.

Jen barely lifts a finger and disposes of Mi with a poke at

a sensitive pressure point.  This provokes a reaction from

the other men.

Jen leaps up and dives into battle.  The men all use

different kinds of weapons, but they all succumb to the

powerful Green Destiny.

She smiles, and leaps again into action after unsheathing

the Green Destiny.

Jen is in a frenzy, slashing and maiming as she speaks.

INT. STAR RESTAURANT - DAY

Yu and Li are surrounded by the variously bandaged men who

battled with Jen.

The men all nod their heads.

EXT. OUTSIDE HWAI AN - DAY

Li and Yu ride together.

Yu takes a fork off the road.  Thunder can be heard in the

darkening sky.

EXT. SUN COMPOUND - DAY

A group of security men are practicing Kung Fu in the front

yard of Sun Security.  They stop when Yu enters.

Aunt Wu hustles out.  Yu goes into her own room.

INT. HALL OF ANCESTRAL WORSHIP

Yu lights incense for her former fiance Meng.  Hearing

something, she turns to see a dishevelled Jen standing

outside downstairs.

INT. YU'S ROOM - DAY

Yu eases her guard, then opens a drawer, and takes out some

clothes.  Jen, wearing just white underclothing, sets

herself on the edge of Yu's bed.  Yu brings over the clothes.

Jen tries to hide her anxiety but finally breaks down on

Yu's shoulder in tears.

Jen gets up to leave.  Yu intercepts her.

Jen jumps out.

INT. YUAN COURTYARD - DAY

Jen soars out to the front courtyard where the guards are

still practicing.

They raise their weapons at the sight of an intruder.

Jen greets Yu with the Green Destiny.

The men leave.

Yu scoops up a weapon from one of many lying around and

begins her battle with Jen.

Yu uses every weapon that's available against Jen but none

are any match for the Green Destiny.

After slicing through another set of Yu's weapons, Jen looks

admiringly at the Green Destiny in her hands.

Yu picks up a huge broad sword and attacks.  Just as the

Green Destiny slices it in half, Yu holds the broken blade

at Jen's neck.  She pauses before hurting Jen, then pulls

back.

Jen, taking advantage of Yu's trust, slices her arm.

Yu, her shoulder bleeding, falls back as Li Mu Bai jumps in.

Jen soars up to the rooftop, with Li right on her tail.

EXT. LAKE - DAY

Jen floats over the lake, Li close behind.

EXT. BAMBOO FOREST - DAY

Jen runs into a sea of bamboo.  She appears to have lost Li

but is not slowing down.  Her white clothes are now stained

with blood and mud.  The wind had picked up and every breeze

sounds like an air attack by Li.

The two leap onto the tips of the bamboo trees and begin

their dances and dodges.  They glance off bamboos and each

other while staying afloat.  Finally Jen lands on the same

stick of bamboo as Li.  The two hold their positions for a

while, as the bamboo bends.

Jen tries to shake Li off the bamboo but Li recovers nicely.

Li suddenly leaps off the bamboo tree.  The bamboo

straightens up and throws Jen toward the ground.  Jen

quickly pulls herself up and charges at Li.

Jen chases after Li, into a clearing, out of the bamboo

forest.

EXT. RIVER - DAY

Jen finally catches up to Li, who is standing on a rock

about a few feet wide amid the rapids.  Jen vaults onto the

rock and scuffles with Li.  Jen loses her balance.

Li takes the sword back.

Li throws the sword into the rapids.

Jen dives in to retrieve it.  He follows Jen downstream by

hopping from one rock to another.  Jen recovers the sword

but is herself drowning.  Suddenly Jade Fox swings into the

rapids and fishes Jen out.  Jade Fox carries the unconscious

Jen away.  Li gives chase, but loses them.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

It's raining.  Inside an old factory, Fox heats some medicine

paste and then dips a needle in the paste.  She burns the

needle point, causing a blue smoke.  She lights some incense

and puts it in a burner near Jen, who is barely conscious.

Jen is too weak to respond.

Fox leaves Jen clutching the Green Destiny.

EXT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Fox scurries ahead in the rain.  Her eyes catch something,

but she keeps moving.

INT. YUAN COMPOUND - DAY

Aunt Wu finishes bandaging Yu.

Yu senses movement at the window.  Looking out, she sees

Jade Fox in the distance.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Jen wakes up, flushed from fever.  She takes a sip from a

cup of water -- it's empty.  She tosses the cup, gets up,

and walks into the rain.

EXT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Jen walks out, raises her face into the rain, and drinks the

raindrops.  Thirst quenched, she turns around and finds Li

standing there.  Jen limps towards him while mumbling.

Jen falls into Li, who checks her pulse and looks at her eyes.

Li carries her inside, kicking away the incense burner.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Li lays his hands on Jen's back; she slowly comes to.

Jen gestures that she doesn't know.  Yu and Bo enter.  Yu

looks at Jen.

Instantaneously, a flurry of darts flies directly in Jen's

direction.  Li and Yu swipe miraculously at them all,

sending them flinging hither and thither.

Fox shows herself.  Li attacks her.  She falls back, bleeding

to death.

Li touches his neck.

Li pulls a single needle from his neck.

Jade Fox dies.

EXT. ABANDONED FACTORY - NIGHT

Bo is burying Fox in the rain.

EXT. YUAN COMPOUND - NIGHT

The guards surround Jen.  She pushes past them.

Aunt Wu comes running out.

Jen pulls out Yu's comb.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - NIGHT

Yu sits across from Li, whose pose is almost meditational,

eerily calm.

Yu cries.

She kisses him lightly.  He closes his eyes.

EXT. PATH - DAY

As the sun rises, Jen rides speedily, clutching the medicine

in her hands.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Li is in Yu's arms.  They're holding hands.  The sun shines

in.  Yu slowly releases Li's stiff fingers -- he is dead.

Jen is at the door.

Bo peeks over Jen's shoulder.

Yu rises and picks up Green Destiny.  Jen kneels.  Yu raises

the sword, but doesn't kill her.

He takes the sword from her.

EXT. WU TAN TEMPLE - DAY

Jen climbs up toward the temple, finally reaching the temple

gate, and sees Lo standing there.

He runs to her.  She greets him.

INT. WU TAN TEMPLE - MAGIC

Jen and Lo make love.

INT. WU TAN TEMPLE - DAY

Lo wakes up to find the jade comb on the pillow beside him,

Jen gone.

EXT. WU TAN MOUNTAIN - DAY

Lo catches up to Jen, who stands on a bridge.  The gorges

below are shrouded in clouds.  She looks back at him.

Lo pauses.

Jen smiles, turns, and leaps into the clouds.  They seem to

catch her gently, before she disappears into them.

Lo remains standing, a smile on his face, tears rolling down

his cheeks.

THE END.

<!--Ad Banner

function popupPage() {

<b>}

</b>

popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->

