FADE IN:

INT. MRS. BRUCE'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Decorated in Carol Brady chic. When it's not gaudy, tacky,

and loud, it's blander than toast. Colors like lime green

and sunshine orange should be reserved for popsicles only.

MRS. BRUCE, late 30's, enters looking exhausted. She carries

a glass of wine in one hand and a book in the other, Erma

Bombeck's The Grass Is Always Greener Over The Septic Tank.

HUMMING "We've Only Just Begun," Mrs. Bruce crouches next to

her wildly-ancient entertainment center complete with 8-track.

She flips the first record forward on her Ronco Record Mate.

Album after album flaps forward. Olivia Newton-John, Neil

Diamond, the Osmond Brothers. She stops on the Carpenters

and sighs at the serene cover art. Just what the doctor

ordered.

Placing the vinyl on the turntable, she CLICKS the dustcover

closed and FLICKS "Play." Reclining in her Lazyboy, she sips

her wine, opens the book and awaits the mellow tones of Karen

Carpenter.

Suddenly, her eardrums are hammered by machine gun GUITAR.

Caustic ROCK 'N' ROLL assaults her senses. She jumps, spilling

her wine all over herself. This isn't the Carpenters...

IT'S KISS!

Racing to the entertainment center, she turns the volume

control knob so violently, it comes off in her hand. The

music is even louder now.

Flustered by the awful noise, she tries lifting the dustcover.

It's stuck. She screams and covers her ears. This is Hell.

Running to the rear of the huge console, she stretches to

reach the plug, but can't. Fingertips millimeters away.

As the cacophony POUNDS she shakes the entire stereo with

all her frantic might.

SCREEEEEECH! The needle scrapes across the vinyl with a

shrill, finally coming to a stop. Whew, silence!

Then, POP, the dustcover opens unceremoniously. Shaken, she

grabs the record with trembling hands and reads the label...

Mrs. Bruce's blood boils.

EXT. LEX'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A small, two-story house amid a suburban neighborhood of

other two-story houses. Uninspired architecture. Spindly

trees.

Two-car garage.

A faint yellow glow emanates from a cellar window across

which shadows frantically dart. Over the CRICKETS, we hear

MUFFLED, BADLY-RENDERED ROCK 'N' ROLL. SCRATCHY, GUTTURAL,

inhuman.

CAMERA MOVES to the cellar window. Inside we see four TEENAGE

BOYS who are to blame for the racket. Band practice.

INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - NIGHT

An inner-sanctum of KISS devotion. Faux-wood paneling is

plastered with countless KISS posters, pictures, fold-outs.

The ceiling is wallpapered with more KISS posters. KISS dolls,

magazines, records, comic books clutter the shag-carpeted

floor. Fast food wrappers heap over the KISS garbage pail.

The four high schoolers rock their hearts out as they blast

a familiar tune offensively off-key.

They stink, but they sure are trying hard. Meet the band

"Mystery." Concert tee-shirts, holey jeans, total burn-outs.

HAWK, a scraggily-haired, disenchanted youth, strains his

vocal chords on the microphone as he SCRATCHES at his rhythm

guitar. Hawk is sort of the brains of this operation, but

knowing the others, that doesn't say much.

LEX POUNDS a bass with earnest determination. Lanky with bad

posture, Lex is already sporting worry lines. He takes

everything way-too-seriously.

TRIP STRUMS lead guitar like he's hammering nails. All id,

Trip is slightly out of his mind. But, is it the chemicals

or just his chemistry. He always wears a knit cap.

JAM, a sensitive kid (but no wuss), BASHES on his drums like

a madman making the bass drum pulsate like a spastic heart.

The big drum bears the word "Mystery" painted on its skin

with a lightning "S" just like the KISS logo.

They bring the classic tune to a shrieking conclusion and

thrust their hands over their heads in the KISS symbol.

Hawk screams into the mike at their imaginary audience.

Behind him, Trip grabs Lex's bass and swings it by the neck

at an amp pretending to bash it over and over again. Lex

quickly yanks it away from him.

Jam emerges from behind the pile of drums smiling.

They all make that BREATH SOUND that mimics a screaming crowd.

Suddenly, headlights swing by in the window above them like

a spotlight. Lex hops onto the unmade bed and looks out the

cellar window.

LEX'S POV

A baby-shit green, Ford station wagon with fake wood sides

SCREECHES into the driveway. Mrs. Bruce gets out and STOMPS

toward the house. Lex gasps at the sight.

Jam GULPS as if he's just shat out an whole can of Lincoln

logs.

Lex quickly throws a KISS towel over a TV tray hiding a bong,

cigarettes, overloaded ashtray. Trip kicks half-empty beer

bottles under the bed. Hawk sprays Lysol frantically around

the room as Jam shovels gum into his mouth.

KNOCK, KNOCK, KNOCK! Mrs. Bruce pounds on the cellar window

crouching to see in. She looks like a crazed, underlit psycho.

The boys looks up like innocent, wide-eyed angels. Jam waves.

Jam quickly pockets his drumsticks and grabs his worn, denim

jacket off the pile of jackets on the floor, then runs

upstairs. The others follow.

EXT. LEX'S HOUSE/FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

The front door opens. Jam steps out to greet his mom with a

nervous smile. Hawk, Lex, and Trip stand at a safe distance

in the foyer behind him.

Mrs. Bruce grabs her son by the ear and holds up the KISS

LOVE GUN record waving it in his face.

She hauls Jam across the lawn. Hawk, Lex, and Trip step onto

the porch looking on in sympathetic embarrassment. Mrs. Bruce

stuffs the record in the trash can then throws Jam in the

front seat. SCREECH, the station wagon pulls away.

MAIN TITLES

CLOSE-UP

The LOVE GUN album sitting in the trash can. CAMERA MOVES IN

on the round label till it FILLS THE FRAME. The record begins

to spin like on a turntable as CAMERA DESCENDS INTO the little

hole ENGULFING THE FRAME IN BLACK. This LEADS us INTO...

OPENING TITLE SEQUENCE

"ROCK 'N' ROLL ALL NITE" BLASTS the way it's supposed to

sound. The jammin' KISS classic is accompanied by a barrage

of QUICK CUTS depicting KISS mania. TV appearances. Concert

footage. Magazine covers. Comic Books. Posters. Art work.

KISS merchandise, dolls, lunch boxes, clothes, etc.

We see the BAND do their thing in authentic CLIPS FROM REAL

SHOWS. GENE, PAUL, ACE, AND PETER SHOUTING IT OUT LOUD.

The MONTAGE is a colorful, kick-ass kaleidoscope of the entire

KISS phenomena. CUT TO the BEAT of this seminal anthem.

The FINAL IMAGE is the KISS "DESTROYER" POSTER.

END CREDITS

INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY

The sun's early morning rays beam through the KISS "Destroyer"

poster taped onto a window shade. The phone RINGS. Jam bolts

upright, his profile blocking the poster. He has just awakened

under the only other decoration in his room: a crucifix.

Still dressed in last night's clothes, a plain black tee-

shirt and blue jeans, Jam leaps out of bed unwittingly

planting a foot in the handle of a Bullworker (a piece of

exercise equipment comprised of a powerful spring with two

handles on either end) whose other handle is stuck under one

of the bed's legs.

Jam runs to a phone on his dresser, drawing the Bullworker's

powerful springs out to maximum tension. No sooner does he

pick up, when he is yanked to the floor and dragged across

it as if tied to the bumper of a speeding car. Despite the

Bullworker pulling him back toward his bed, Jam does manage

to get the phone to his ear.

The phone's cord stretches taut causing its cradle to leap

from the dresser and WHACK Jam on the head.

INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - DAY

Hawk is on the phone as Lex and Trip scour every inch of the

cluttered room on their hands and knees searching frantically

for something.

INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jam clutches the phone with his shoulder GRUNTING as he does

battle with the Bullworker for possession of his foot.

Jam briefly scans his surroundings double-taking at the denim

jacket lying on the floor. He checks the pockets and sees

four tickets labelled KISS - JUNE 7, 1978 - COBO HALL,

DETROIT.

INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - DAY

Hawk SIGHS like a deathrow convict pardoned at the last

second.

Lex and Trip collapse with relief.

Trip reaches in a breast pocket and pulls out Rosary beads.

Spooked, he drops them like they were a bug.

INT. JAM'S ROOM - DAY

CLICK. DIAL TONE. Jam hangs up.

INT. LEX'S BASEMENT/BEDROOM - DAY

Lex buckles his belt with its huge KISS belt buckle.

Trip pockets his wallet which is affixed to a long chain

attached to a side belt loop.

Lex and Trip shaddap.

Trip and Lex cease and desist the mom-bashing and continue

getting ready for school. Suddenly, Lex pushes Trip angrily.

Lex points to a wet mess on the pillow.

INT. JAM'S BEDROOM - DAY

Jam gives the Bullworker one final yank. This time it comes

loose... not from his foot, but from under the bed. Its handle

lashes up SLAPPING him across the face. Ouch.

Fully awake now, Jam throws on Trip's denim jacket. He stuffs

a drumstick into his left sock. We see "Mystery" written on

it. Just as he's about to stick the other one in his right

sock...

Without a second of warning, or even a knock, Mrs. Bruce

suddenly ENTERS. Immediately Jam stands.

She turns to his closet, the door blocking her view of the

KISS poster. Jam leaps to the window and yanks the "Destroyer"

shade. It shoots up, FLAPPING around its rod. He's done this

before.

Mrs. Bruce peeks at Jam from around his closet door. He

stretches in front of the window.

Jam reluctantly takes off the denim jacket as Mrs. Bruce

grabs the single drumstick from his hand and shakes it at

him.

She turns and rummages through the closet.

She pulls two Sears department store boxes from the closet

and lays them on the bed. Jam is visibly horrified.

EXT. ROBERT F. KENNEDY HIGH - DAY

The suburban high school is teeming with morning activity.

School buses pull up to the curb. KIDS arrive in droves and

immediately find their cliques. The JOCKS and PRIMADONNAS

make up the popular crowd. There's DISCO DUDES, FRESHMEN who

look like grade schoolers, and GEEKS.

At the smoking section hang the BURNOUTS. Hawk, Trip, and

Lex stand amid the other long-hairs.

Two GIRLS with tons of make-up, hair so feathered it could

fly, and tight clothes, saunter by SNAPPING gum.

Their words say one thing, but their eyes say another. They

can't stop gawking at the chicks' asses. Girl #1 sneers back.

The boys quickly cover.

They chuckle. Just then, Jam steps off a school bus in an

unbelievably geeky outfit, white corduroy slacks, plaid shirt

buttoned to the top, argyle socks and brown deck shoes.

Hawk and Lex look and laugh when they see him.

Jam gives them the finger.

INT. SCHOOL LOCKER AREA - DAY

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam grab books from their lockers.

KISS stickers, photos, and rock magazine cut-outs line the

insides. Jam's locker door is covered with Peter Criss only.

The BELL RINGS.

SLAM! They shut their lockers in unison.

INT. STUDY HALL - DAY

The STUDY HALL TEACHER grades papers. On the wall a picture

of President Carter hangs next to Old Glory. The words "Be

Quiet" are written on the blackboard.

Students study, read, doodle, sleep. Jam is at his desk

touching up the word "Mystery" on his drumstick. Next to him

sits BETH. Quirky, but cute, she stares longingly at him

wanting to say something, but not having the guts.

Pleased with his work, Jam puts the drumsticks on the desk

and opens a Peter Criss album cover notebook depicting

countless doodles of the KISS logo, the Mystery logo, and

renderings of Peter Criss.

Beth SIGHS and opens her own notebook. Drawings of hearts

fill the pages. In them is written "Beth + Jeremiah" and "I

love Jeremiah."

Then, one of Jam's drumsticks rolls off the desk and onto

the floor. Beth quickly reaches down to grab it for him just

as he bends to get it too. THUD, they bash heads.

Rubbing her head, she smiles and hands him the drumstick.

He stuffs his drumsticks in his socks pulling his pantlegs

down. Jam and Beth stare at each other. There's a mutual

crush, but both are apprehensive about making the first move.

Both want to speak, neither does. They awkwardly go back to

their notebooks.

Mustering the nerve, Jam breaks the ice and whispers...

Beth spins too quickly. Her pen flies out of her hand.

BOINK! The pen hits Jam in the eye.

Feeling awful, Beth moves in to help. The teacher looks up

sternly.

Jam points to his eye.

Unamused, the teacher goes back to grading.

Beth resumes doodling feeling like an idiot. Jam does too.

Ah, teenage awkwardness. Finally, Beth musters up some

courage.

She hems and haw, then...

Suddenly, Beth is rudely interrupted by HIGH-PITCHED FEEDBACK

coming from the P.A. The PRINCIPAL'S VOICE ECHOES over it.

Jam throws a startled glance to the speaker as the class

sings in unison.

More FEEDBACK as the mike on the other end changes hands.

All the kids except for Beth burst into hysterical laughter.

Mrs. Bruce's tirade continues over QUICK SHOTS of...

INT. HAWK'S SCIENCE CLASS - DAY

Hawk sits at his lab table burning an eraser with his Bunsen

burner. His eyes widen with horror behind his goggles as the

other STUDENTS laugh till they hurt.

INT. LEX'S GYM CLASS - DAY

Lex's eyes bug with terror. The basketball game is at a

standstill as everyone is crippled with laughter.

INT. TRIP'S HEALTH CLASS - DAY

Trip dozes at his desk as an out-of-date film about VD

sputters on. The room is deafening with laughter. Then, as

if hit by a ton of bricks, Trip wakes up alarmed by the

familiar, shrilly voice.

4-WAY SPLIT SCREEN

We see Jam, Hawk, Lex, and Trip agog in dread.

INT. JAM'S STUDY HALL - DAY

Jam slowly sinks in his chair under the profoundly humiliating

weight of an ENTIRE SCHOOL'S ECHOED LAUGHTER.

INT. WAITING AREA - DAY

Mrs. Bruce sits next to a stand-up ashtray in the high

school's waiting area. Scowling, she fans the KISS tickets

out with one hand. Jam sits across from her, one leg jittering

anxiously.

They sit for an uncomfortably long time until... Mrs. Bruce

pulls a cigarette and lighter out of her purse.

She flicks the lighter, not yet lighting the cigarette.

Mrs. Bruce holds the tickets over the lighter's flame.

Mrs. Bruce lights her smoke with the flaming tickets, then

drops them in the ashtray where they burn for a cruel

eternity. Jam stares semi-catatonic through his mom's sour

expression.

She stands and pulls him out the front entrance by his arm.

REVERSE ANGLE ON NEARBY CORNER

Hawk, Trip, and Lex peek around it, their heads forming a

totem pole. One-by-one they pull back.

AROUND THE CORNER

They slump against the wall devastated.

Suddenly, a caustic voice BLURTS from down the hall.

The boys whip their heads around to see a potbellied, yellow-

toothed, security officer with long sideburns and slicked

back hair at the far end of the hall, fists on his hips.

Meet ELVIS.

Elvis laughs and breaks into a run barreling down on them

like a maniac. Keys JANGLING furiously.

They take off in three different directions. Still laughing,

Elvis stops where the boys just were. Which one to follow?

He bolts after Hawk who has taken the nearest staircase.

INT./EXT. JAM'S STUDY HALL - DAY

Beth looks sadly out the window watching Mrs. Bruce push Jam

in the car. Beth puts her hand on the pane wanting to touch

him.

INT. STAIRWAY - DAY

Meanwhile, Elvis HUFFS and PUFFS up a flight of stairs

arriving at a set of swinging doors. He goes to push one in,

but it swings out at him with a vengeance knocking him

backward.

From behind it pops Hawk wielding a fire extinguisher. BLAST!

A hail of foam covers Elvis's face. Hawk shoves the

extinguisher into the man's arms and pushes Elvis backwards

down the stairs. He topples ass-over-head till he hits the

landing.

Elvis rises and shakes the CO2 off like a wet dog. Looking

up, he sees the door gently swinging in and out. No sign of

Hawk.

INT. GIRLS' BATHROOM - DAY

Trip kicks a bathroom stall violently.

Lex sits on the toilet in the stall.

Trip grabs Lex by the collar, yanks him off the toilet and

shoves him against the wall.

Hawk bursts into the bathroom.

They run to exit. Hawk first. Suddenly, Hawk backs up again

into Trip and Lex as if a swarm of killer bees was out there.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex run back and pile into the last stall.

All three stand on the toilet bracing their arms against the

walls for balance.

A FOXY GIRL hurries into the stall next to theirs. We see

the top halves of three heads peek over the stall's partition.

The three boys don't make a sound as they watch her sit down.

As she glances up, they recoil fast. They whisper super-quiet.

Then, a SOUND OF TINKLING. They all throw their hands over

their mouths to stifle the giggles. Suddenly, POOT! She lets

out an ECHOED FART. The boys are awestruck.

Pause.

Just then, the SOUND OF CRACKING PORCELAIN, as the toilet

they're standing on breaks into pieces with a SMASH. They

topple over pulling the stall walls down with them exposing

the foxy chick sitting on the can. Water GUSHES everywhere

as she screams bloody murder, getting doused ruining her

Farrah-do.

They bolt out the door slipping and sliding across the torrent

of toilet water. Lex turns and shrugs to the traumatized

girl.

He's gone.

INT. MRS. BRUCE'S CAR - DAY

Mrs. Bruce uses a finished cigarette to light another.

EXT. ST. BERNARD'S - DAY

Mrs. Bruce's car turns off the road and drives through an

imposing set of wrought iron gates. The sign reads: St.

Bernard's Veil of Tears. A School for Catholic Boys.

INT. MRS. BRUCE'S CAR - DAY

Jam looks at what lies ahead. His face becomes a mask of

pure terror. We hear a THUNDER CLAP as Jam puts his hands

together and closes his eyes humbling himself. He whispers.

EXT. ST. BERNARD'S - DAY

The car winds up the path leading to a dark, Gothic edifice

over which tumultuous storm clouds continuously hover. THUNDER

BELCHES and bolts of lightning shoot at the blackened

crucifixes along the structure. We hear a SCARY ORGAN theme.

INT. VOC/TECH DEPT. - DAY

Except for the tinkering NOISES that are heard as the STUDENTS

work on their projects, there is silence in Electronics Class.

The teacher, MR. JOHANSEN, sips from a coffee cup and reads

a newspaper, his feet on the desk. The headline says: "Mass

Suicide in Jonestown. Cyanide in the Kool-Aid." Above him is

a long banner reading: "Sorry, Absolutely no bathroom breaks".

Hawk, Trip, and Lex sit before a half-built radio on a work

bench, sheer desperation etched on their faces.

Lex solders two copper wires together. Hawk attaches a dial.

Trip absently plays with a squeeze pump attached to a long

plastic tube. He blows air into his face repeatedly with it.

Hawk turns the radio on and a HIGH FREQUENCY WHINE pours

from its speaker. He adjusts the volume, then the tuner,

until a DJ's VOICE comes through crisp and clear.

Detroit? DETROIT? Hawk, Trip, and Lex react like they've

just been hit by phasers on stun. God is intervening.

HIGH FREQUENCY NOISES again, then the radio loses reception.

Hawk exchanges an anxious glance with Trip and Lex.

Mr. Johansen still sits with his feet up, reading. The next

page's headline reads: First Test Tube Baby Born.

Trip runs up to Mr. J's desk, one hand behind his back, the

other on his crotch. His face is drawn in an expression of

sheer agony. Hawk and Lex watch anxiously in the background.

Trip puts one leg over the other always keeping a hand behind

his back.

Suddenly, a wet stain grows across the crotch of Trip's pants.

Mr. J. stops when he sees the stain starting to spread.

We now see Trip is squeezing the pump from before. He holds

it behind him feeding water into the tube running down the

back of his pants.

The stain travels fast, hitting Trip's knee in a nanosecond.

In a state of shock, Mr. J. slowly opens a long forgotten

drawer on his desk, finding a cobweb and dust-covered pad of

bathroom passes. He tears one off and dust flies everywhere.

He holds the pass out to Trip like it was a cross he was

holding before an advancing vampire.

Hawk and Lex observe that Trip has been successful, then do

a Three Stooges-style handshake, whispering "Curly!"

INT. FRONT OFFICE - DAY

The SECRETARY sits at her desk in the reception area filing

paperwork. She pauses when she hears RUNNING FOOTSTEPS. Trip

charges past, a big, wet stain on his crotch.

The secretary notices the pump and tube flopping from the

back of his pants as Trip turns a corner.

INT. MAIN CORRIDOR - DAY

Trip runs up to a pay phone on the wall, pumps every nickel

he has into it, puts the phone to his ear and dials.

INT. SCHOOL SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

A cubby-of-an-office. Cluttered beyond belief. Elvis leans

back on his chair against the wall reading a PLOP Magazine.

A transistor radio plays W.A.R.P. He bolts at the sound of

Trip's name causing his chair to slide out from under him.

THWAM!

INT. FRONT OFFICE - DAY

The secretary hears an ecstatic "YEEEHAAWW" and turns to see

Trip wheeling back around the corner, leaping in the air as

he runs, YOWLING like a rodeo cowboy. He bounds past her.

She watches him and shakes her head.

INT. SECURITY OFFICE - DAY

Still on the floor, Elvis grabs the little radio with rage,

flips it off and screams at it.

The bell RINGS.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE VOC/TECH ROOM - DAY

Students pour into the hall. Hawk and Lex exit the class

just as Trip comes zigzagging down the corridor dodging the

hordes. All three converge as Trip can't contain his

enthusiasm.

The three burnouts jump, scream, HOOT, and play air

instruments like loons as if they're the only ones in the

hall. They can't stop. The rest of the student body are not

amused

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

Hawk, Trip, and Lex hold their trays over the counter as the

LUNCH LADIES fill them with Salisbury steak, hard dinner

rolls and scoops of bluish pudding. Ah, public school

nutrition.

Hawk's really got their attention now.

Lex nods.

Hawk scopes out the cafeteria to make sure the coast is clear.

Hawk points across the cafeteria and sure enough Elvis has

just entered. Luckily, he hasn't noticed the boys yet.

Elvis swaggers to a table of CHEERLEADERS, puts his leg on a

chair and starts a one-sided conversation with them. They

promptly push their trays away, having lost their appetites.

Meanwhile, back at the condiment tray, Hawk and Trip each

grab a big handful of ketchup packets and head to a table.

Lex reluctantly follows suit grabbing a big handful of ketchup

packets too. All three of them put their trays down and sit.

Hawk approaches the exit door, glances either way, then

leaves.

Trip and Lex look at their watches for five seconds. Then

Trip heads for the exit door also.

Lex still stares at his watch. After five, he looks at Elvis,

who stops talking to the cheerleaders. As if possessing some

sixth sense, Elvis turns quickly and looks STRAIGHT INTO

CAMERA.

ELVIS'S POV -- He spots the swinging exit door and an empty

table with three full lunch trays sitting on it.

Relieved he's gone, the cheerleaders start eating again.

Elvis moves through the cafeteria in SLOW MOTION toward the

exit door. The hunter in action.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Elvis pushes through the door and into a hall, dead-eye stare

focused up ahead where the hallway turns sharply. He catches

a glimpse of Lex. Smiling like the devil, Elvis bolts.

INT. OTHER HALLWAY - DAY

Lex catches up with Hawk and Trip just as Elvis swings around

the corner and marauds after them CACKLING maniacally. A mad

chase ensues. Down hallways. Around corners. Upstairs. Down

ramps.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex scramble as fast as they can to escape

the clutches of their sideburn-clad nemesis.

As the boys pass a classroom, a NERD comes out pushing a

projector on an AV cart. Thinking fast, Hawk grabs it out of

the nerd's hands and pushes it down the hall at Elvis.

CRASH! Elvis bashes face-first into the rolling cart. He and

the projector go tumbling. Not wasting a second, Elvis is

back on his feet and after them again. The nerd grabs his

hair in horror at the sight of the smashed projector.

AROUND A CORNER

Elvis SKIDS around the corner and trips on a fire hose

stretched across the floor from its glass box to a water

fountain pipe. He slides on his belly along the polished

floor unable to stop.

INT. ENGLISH CLASS - DAY

Old MISS HIBBS is lecturing on MOBY DICK. The kids are dozing.

Suddenly, a screaming Elvis slides into the open door on his

stomach and bowls Miss Hibbs over like a Brunswick. He clamors

to his feet and shoots out the room leaving everyone stunned.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Pausing at the corner, Elvis takes a breath and leaps around

it. He smiles at what he sees.

Up ahead, Hawk, Lex, and Trip stand on a 3-stair stoop,

desperately pulling at a locked door. Elvis smiles. They

GULP.

Elvis takes his key ring off his belt and begins twirling

it. The boys turn and face him. He savors the moment.

Hawk's brow furrows as he pulls about fifty ketchup packets

out of his pocket. Trip and Lex do the same.

Elvis laughs and lurches forward -- the boys' cue to drop

the ketchup packets at their feet and...

Trip and Lex ready themselves, then...

They start stomping on the packets, squirting Elvis's face

and torso with tomato-based condiment causing him to let out

a scream that lasts the rest of the scene. Ketchup spatters

across his body in SUPER SLOW MOTION. A shot hits him in the

mouth and he COUGHS it back out in mid-scream.

The boys stomp relentlessly, mercilessly, blasting their

nemesis with hideous cafeteria red as Elvis throws his arms

back, body quaking at every splat. It's kind of like the

scene in "The Godfather" where Sonny gets it.

Beaten and spent, his scream now dried up to a hoarse GASPING,

Elvis slips on some ketchup at his feet. He hits the floor

with a THUD right in the goop. He lays there letting out DRY

SOBS looking like a bunless wiener.

Hawk jumps off the stoop. Taking Elvis's key chain away, he

hops back up and unlocks the door letting Trip and Lex out.

Hawk whips the keys back at Elvis, hitting him in the head,

then flashes a pearly Error Flynn smile.

Hawk bolts out the door. Elvis tries to get up only to slip

in the muck again and fall back down twice as hard.

EXT. STREET IN THE NEXT COUNTY - DAY

C/U on the grill of a moving car, Ohio vanity plate reading:

Ob-GYN.

PULL BACK to reveal it's on a brand spanking-new, brown Volvo

242 DL hauling ass. Hawk drives, Lex rides shotgun, and Trip

sits in the back, arms draped over the front seat.

EXT. ST. BERNARD'S - DAY

The Volvo turns and barrels up St. Bernard's gated entrance.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Hawk and Trip roll their eyes.

INT. ST. BERNARD'S BOARDING SCHOOL - DAY

Mrs. Bruce and FATHER McNULTY stand outside his office. The

door is open a tad. Jam sits just beyond it, but all we see

are his corduroyed legs which shake. Jam is one nervous kid.

Father McNulty has a look of utter compassion on his face.

They hug. She exits. And the look of utter compassion on

Father McNulty's face disappears.

INT. FATHER MCNULTY'S OFFICE - DAY

The priest enters, SLAMS the door shut, startling Jam, and

sits in front of a painting of the Virgin Mary on his wall.

The name plate on his desk reads: FR. PHILIP McNULTY.

Father McNulty sticks the pencil into an electric pencil

sharpener and it makes the same NOISE a DENTIST'S DRILL does

when burrowing into a molar. Jam shudders.

The Father removes the pencil and blows the shavings away

from the needle-sharp tip.

EXT. ST. BERNARD'S - DAY

Mrs. Bruce exits the building and approaches her car. She

stops when she sees the '78 brown Volvo parked behind her.

It's empty. She shrugs and gets into her car, driving off.

Inside the Volvo Hawk, Trip, and Lex poke their heads up.

The coast is clear so they can sit straight again. They stare

up at a second story window where they see part of Jam's

profile.

They hear an ENGINE and turn to see a delivery truck labelled

PIZZA PIG parking behind them. A DELIVERY BOY holding a pizza

box steps out. Trip's mouth waters.

Seeing the boys, the delivery boy stops at the Volvo.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex exchange an anxious glance, then Hawk

smiles. He is officially inspired as he turns to the boy.

INT. FATHER MCNULTY'S OFFICE - DAY

The Father TAPS his pencil looking impatiently at Jam who

has totally withdrawn. He sits motionless staring into space.

Jam doesn't respond.

A NUN enters KNOCKING.

The nun exits and a second later Hawk enters wearing Lex's

baseball cap pulled down over his eyes.

The priest swivels his chair around and unlocks a box labelled

"Donations." While he looks for cash, Hawk gives Jam a

discreet kick in the shin. Jam looks up and recognizes Hawk.

He then looks out the window seeing Trip, Lex, and the Volvo

below.

For the first time we see what Jam looks like with a big,

fat, shit-eating grin on his face.

Father McNulty swivels back around with a ten.

Hawk takes the ten, tips the brim of the baseball cap and

leaves, giving Jam a cautious wink as he goes.

Father McNulty raises his eyebrows, then opens the pizza

box.

Father McNulty smiles, taking a big bite. Jam smiles for an

entirely different reason. The priest mumbles with a mouthful.

Jam grins a bit feigning interest.

Father McNulty GAGS sticking his pizza-covered tongue out.

He pours himself a glass of wine and sucks it down looking

concerned for the moment. Finally, he BELCHES.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Hawk, Trip, and Lex look up at Father McNulty's window.

They look at their watches, then back at the window.

Just then, INSANE LAUGHTER bellows from the window above.

INT. FATHER MCNULTY'S OFFICE - DAY

The Father has undergone a metamorphosis. He's redder than a

boiling lobster, his eyes bulge and he's laughing the deepest

laugh a man can without risking psychological evaluation.

Jam watches fascinated as the priest tries to finish the

story. It's not every day you see a holy man tripping on

shrooms.

Father McNulty belly laughs so hard this time, he slides off

his chair hitting his chin on the edge of his desk. He is in

pain only momentarily, then laughs again, this time at his

own pratfall. He hoists himself back into his chair.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex suddenly barge into the office, followed

by the outraged nun.

Father McNulty laughs some more.

Jam gets up and all four boys exit.

The nun looks at the priest, deep concern in her eyes.

He lets out a belly laugh as the shocked nun runs from the

office. Father McNulty laughs even louder at her behavior,

POUNDING his fists on the desk, tears rolling down his cheeks,

until...

He suddenly glimpses at the painting of the Virgin Mary and

abruptly stops laughing. What appears to be extreme contrition

washes over his face as he moves closer to the painting.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Hawk drives, Trip rides shotgun, Lex and Jam sit in the back.

Stoked beyond belief, Jam POUNDS his drumsticks on the

upholstery to the beat of a rockin' KISS tune playing on the

8-track.

Lex taps Jam on the shoulder.

Lex hands him a paper bag with jeans and a tee-shirt in it.

The boys do their Three Stooges handshake and say "Curly!"

Jam starts to change. Just then, the Volvo passes a two-tone

Chevy Impala with luggage tied to the roof. The passenger in

the back seat turns and spots Jam pulling off his pants.

It's Beth. Her eyes bulge. Beth parents are in the front.

Jam spots her and beams. Their eyes lock. She waves and starts

to yell something, when... suddenly... BANG!

The boys look out the driver's side of the car to see the

rear hubcap rolling away. They've got a flat.

The car fishtails and weaves but Hawk manages to pull over.

The Chevy continues on, Beth gazing out the rear window sadly.

EXT. LOCAL TRAIN STOP - DAY

ANGLE ON a status report. The 2:45 is now leaving. We see is

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam running alongside a train as it

picks up speed by the second. They YELL for it to stop, but

it's hopeless. The train is gone. So much for the 2:45.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Lex looks at the speedometer. Hawk's got it up to ninety-

five.

Trip holds his stomach as we hear it GROWL.

Trip spots a sign on the side of the road: Next Exit,

Sandusky.

MOMENTS LATER

INT. VOLVO - DAY

The boys chomp on their pizza slices and chug cans of Hawaiian

Punch. Another raucous KISS tune BLARES.

Behind them, a car horn starts HONKING rhythmically. Hawk

looks into the rearview mirror and sees two guys and two

girls in a tailgating Trans Am.

The guys have 90 M.P.H. haircuts, tacky, wide-collared shirts,

and massive amounts of jewelry on their necks.

The girls wear 10-layer make-up, mega-jewelry, and hair teased

so high, it touches the car's roof.

INT. TRANS AM - DAY

The speakers BLAST a DISCO SONG to which the four passengers

sing. KENNY, the driver, HONKS to the disco beat.

They're slightly older than our heroes and very full of

themselves. Kenny and his best girl CHRISTINE sit in the

front. BOBBY and BARBARA are in the back. It's a double disco

date.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Trip lifts a rubbery slice of pizza to his mouth and the top

layer slides off PLOPPING into his lap.

Trip grabs the wad of goop and throws it out the window.

EXT. TRANS AM - DAY

Just as the DISCO TUNE playing in the Trans Am hits the next

chorus, a fistful of pizza SPLATTERS across the windshield.

Freaked, Kenny swerves and zigzags all over the road.

Righting himself, Kenny's entire family might as well have

been insulted.

He turns off the stereo and floors the accelerator, swerving

into the left lane and passing the Volvo. Bobby is just now

noticing the mess on the windshield.

He starts to laugh.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Lex is looking at the mess on the Trans Am's windshield and

the anger in the eyes of its passengers.

The Trans Am runs alongside the Volvo and Hawk turns to see

Kenny pointing to the breakdown lane.

Hawk rolls up his window. Kenny yells, VOICE MUFFLED, and

points to Hawk who pays absolutely no attention whatsoever.

Just then, SLAM, the Trans Am bangs up against the side of

the Volvo pushing it onto the shoulder.

EXT. FREEWAY - DAY

The Trans Am muscles the Volvo into the breakdown lane.

Parking the ass end of the Pontiac out a bit, Kenny blocks

the Volvo in. Kenny and Bobby climb from their car and storm

over to the boys.

Hawk opens his door just as Kenny's hairy-knuckled hands

pull him out through the window. He grabs Trip, yanking him

out too. Bobby opens the back door and does the same with

Lex and Jam.

With a kid in each hand now, Kenny and Bobby SLAM the four

boys against the Volvo in a line. The size difference between

the burnouts and the guidos is painfully obvious now. Kenny

and Bobby are Neanderthals.

Kenny hauls back and SLAPS the row of boys in the faces Three

Stooges-style... WHACKWHACKWHACKWHACK!

Trip, Lex, and Jam clutch their faces in pain. Hawk looks

merely disenchanted as Kenny pokes a muscle-bound finger at

his chest. Getting in Hawk's face, Kenny yammers loud and

fast.

Hawk starts to say "yes."

Hawk is unimpressed.

Kenny looks at Bobby and they exchange moronic grins.

Hawk figured out that any answer he gives will be incorrect

and has decided to wait till Kenny's done.

Christine snarls at Kenny.

Cold silence as Kenny replays Hawk's insult over in his head.

Kenny's temper's rising faster than the price of gasoline.

Hawk on the other hand is cooler than an Otter Pop.

And with that, Kenny grabs himself a fistful of Hawk's long

hair and pulls him over to the Trans Am. He wipes the pizza

off with Hawk's hair, tugging Hawk's head up and down, back

and forth. Hawk GRUNTS with each wipe, but doesn't give Kenny

the satisfaction of hearing him scream.

Trip, Lex, and Jam watch helplessly, trapped under Bobby's

dull-witted, but equally threatening gaze.

Kenny gets the last of the big chunks off his windshield and

looks at his handiwork.

He throws Hawk to the ground and smiles at Bobby. Then, he

suddenly hears the KISS tune coming from the Volvo. Uh-oh!

Kenny clenches his jaws and walks up to the Volvo, reaching

in the driver's door. Suddenly Jam grabs his wrist.

Kenny pushes Jam away.

Christine gets out of the car and starts walking down the

highway, exiting the scene.

Kenny meanwhile has his arm in the Volvo.

Kenny takes the 8-track from the car...

He flings it into the highway, where it is summarily smashed

to bits under the wheels of a passing semi.

FOLLOW a chunk of cartridge and a strand of mangled tape

streaming from it as it sails back toward the side of the

road, landing at Jam's feet.

TILT UP to Jam's face. He raises his eyes and turns to the

CAMERA, a single tear rolling down his cheek, just like the

Indian in that "Keep America Beautiful" litter ad.

Hawk rises and Kenny comes face-to-face with him.

Hawk pulls a cigarette from his pocket and lights it. He

blows some smoke in Kenny's face.

Out of original material, Kenny goes for an old stand by.

Trip, Lex, and Jam exchange "uh-oh" glances. Meanwhile, Hawk's

eyes glaze over.

Hawk reaches into his coat pocket and pulls out his mostly

empty can of Hawaiian Punch, holding it discreetly at his

side.

Kenny draws a blank, not being prepared for this one.

Kenny chuckles and looks at Bobby. They have a good little

laugh... the homo's got balls! Then Kenny turns back to Hawk.

Hawk is a little mad now. He tosses his cigarette to the

ground and squashes it like a bug under his sneaker.

Quick as a shot, Hawk SLAMS the bottom of the can into Kenny's

nose, crushing it flat against his face. Hawaiian backwash

spews from its tab hole like blood as Kenny falls backwards

from the impact. He hits his head on the ground.

Taking this as a cue... Trip whips out his wallet on a

chain... Lex rips off his KISS belt... And Jam yanks out his

drumsticks.

As if choreographed, Trip swoops the wallet at Bobby's feet,

snagging him around the ankles tightly with the chain. Lex

THWAMS Bobby in the face with his big KISS belt buckle leaving

a reversed, red, KISS logo branded in his forehead.

Trip yanks the chain pulling Bobby off his feet. When he

hits the ground, Jam's right there DRUMMING his balls.

Bobby shrieks.

Meanwhile, Hawk advances on Kenny who tries to get the can

off his face, but it's stuck on looking like a pig's nose

with fruit punch for snot.

Hawk raises both his hands in Kenny's face, then executes

the final insult... Hawk messes Kenny's hair. Kenny lets out

a scream that comes from the bottom of his vanity.

Hawk grabs Kenny by the ears and brings the guido's head

swiftly against his kneecap. Kenny falls to the ground,

unconscious on top of Bobby. Their heads collide knocking

Bobby out cold.

Terrified, Barbara leaps from the Trans Am and is cornered.

MOMENTS LATER

Kenny, Bobby, and Barbara are now tied to the guardrail with

Jam's white corduroy pants, geeky belt, and plaid shirt.

Kenny and Bobby rest their unconscious heads on each of

Barbara's shoulders.

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam look down at the two guidos and the

stella, snickering.

Hawk grabs a cinderblock off the side of the road, walking

up to the Trans Am.

Hawk puts the rock on the Trans Am's accelerator letting the

engine WHINE in protest. (Again we are cautious not to show

the guidos' faces.)

He throws the Trans Am into drive.

All who are conscience listen to the brief SCREECH, then

watch the Trans Am as it barrels without a driver into the

woods skirting the highway.

It races into ditches, bounces off trees, and SPLASHES through

ponds, all Smokey and the Bandit-like.

The disco-mobile ramps off the edge of an embankment, tumbles

down a steep, rocky incline breaking apart along the way,

and finally, BOOM! It explodes on final impact.

The boys all look at each other and shrug. Hawk walks back

to the Volvo and gets in. Trip, Lex, and Jam follow suit and

pile in as well. Lex shouts back to Barbara.

ANGLE ON KENNY, BOBBY, AND BARBARA.

We now see them from the front. Lo-and-behold, Kenny has

been made-up like Gene Simmons, Bobby like Paul Stanley.

Whoever finds them is gonna get the wrong idea about their

musical taste... and kick their asses all over again.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Hawk starts the engine and takes off. Trip pulls a baggie of

weed and some rolling papers out.

Jam points out at the road ahead to Christine. She's a few

hundred feet away walking sadly in the breakdown lane.

Hawk slows down, turning into the breakdown lane, travelling

about two miles per hour. Christine doesn't notice as they

edge closer to her.

Pause.

INT. VOLVO - DAY

Christine sits between Jam and Lex in the back SNAPPING gum.

Jam and Lex stare at her like cats looking at a fish bowl.

Hawk looks in the rearview mirror at Christine checking

herself in a compact. She swathes on some 7-Up flavored,

Bonnie Bell lip gloss.

Trip meanwhile twirls the joint he's just finished rolling

in his mouth, sealing it. He winks at her disgustingly.

Trying to be suave, Lex moves in close, putting the make on

her.

She pushes him away. Jam laughs.

Trip lights the joint and takes a lungful of pot. He passes

it to Lex and the joint begins to make its rounds with the

exception of Christine. The car starts to fill with smoke.

Christine processes this remark.

Trip looks confused, then smiles thinking she paid him a

compliment.

All, Christine included, pause to think about what that

comment was supposed to mean. Lex takes a hit off the joint.

Hawk and Trip immediately bust into the giggles and it doesn't

take long for Lex and Jam to follow suit.

Christine succumbs to the contagious giggle epidemic and the

whole car gets a great laugh for a while.

They finally calm down again and wipe tears from their eyes.

Lex still has the joint now as Christine looks at it.

Lex smiles despite himself and holds the weed out to her as

we...

MONTAGE

The Volvo passing a big sign that says: "Welcome to Michigan,

the Great Lakes State."

The Volvo racing toward the Detroit skyline.

Detroit landmarks: The General Motors Building, the Ford

Building, Motown Records, and finally...

COBO HALL, where thousands of fans in KISS tees gather,

waiting for its doors to open.

Unbelievable traffic stretches to an intersection at which

stand four key landmarks... a cathedral, a convenience store,

a parking lot, and a male strip joint. They face one another,

each on its own corner.

A gigantic sign on the auditorium's facade flashes the

commandment, "YOU GOTTA LOSE YOUR MIND IN DETROIT ROCK CITY"

over and over again.

EXT. COBO HALL - SUNSET

The sun hangs low on this day as the Volvo sits in traffic,

passing Cobo Hall. Movement is nearly impossible.

KISS FANS cram every square foot of open macadam, pushing

through the jammed cars. STREET VENDORS hawk KISS souvenirs

from tee-shirts to pennants. Some are in stands along the

sidewalk. Others come right up to car windows.

INT. VOLVO - SUNSET

Christine is fast asleep between Jam and Lex.

All look ahead. COBO Hall. A HALO GLOW forms around the

building accompanied by a CHOIR OF ANGELS.

One block on the left is the W.A.R.P. tower.

The opening to the Carpenters' "TOP OF THE WORLD" begins.

INT. W.A.R.P. TOWER ELEVATOR - NIGHT

"TOP OF THE WORLD" continues, playing through the speaker of

the ascending elevator inside which Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam

stand. They watch the numbers climb, smiling.

INT. SIMPLE SIMON'S OFFICE - NIGHT

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam poke their heads around the corner

of an office doorway totem pole-style.

SIMPLE SIMON strikes a pose before a full-length mirror in a

glittery-back Gene Simmons tee-shirt, silver pants, and very

high heel boots. He has a huge Afro and bushy moustache. He

turns when he hears Hawk.

They all enter and stand at Simple Simon's desk.

The boys do a Three Stooges handshake and say "Curly!" Simple

Simon on the other hand suddenly appears nonplussed

INT. PRODUCER'S BOOTH - NIGHT

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam sit in the tiny producer's booth

with Simon who fast forwards a reel-to-reel tape through

some very loud, high-speed conversation and bits of music.

Looking at the footage counter on the tape player, he slows

down at a certain point and lets the boys listen to this:

The CLICK of a phone being answered.

Pause.

Pause.

CLI-CLICK.

DIAL TONE.

Simple Simon stops the tape and looks at the boys who look

like they've just been served a life sentence behind bars.

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam stare at the floor in silence.

INT. W.A.R.P. TOWER ELEVATOR - NIGHT

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam ride back down the elevator sipping

NeHi sodas, watching the floor numbers get lower and lower.

Terry Jack's immortal hit "SEASONS IN THE SUN" plays over

the elevator speaker.

Trip looks away from the rest, ashamed.

Jam looks at his feet.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex cringe.

The doors to the elevator open and the boys step out.

EXT. W.A.R.P. TOWER - NIGHT

COBO Hall looms up ahead.

Hawk, Trip, Lex, and Jam enter the sidewalk. A thickening

CROWD of KISS fans continually meander by.

On their way to the car, they suddenly hear a WOMAN'S VOICE

bellowing through a megaphone from somewhere down the street.

After a moment they see the voice's source.

A GROUP OF WOMEN has congregated about forty feet ahead and

their LEADER, her back toward the boys, yells to the group

through her bullhorn. Flying above them all is a large banner

reading: "MATMOK, Mothers Against The Music Of KISS."

The group cheers as the KISS FANS milling around them pretty

much ignore the whole MATMOK spectacle.

Lex looks away from the MATMOKS and into the street. We can't

see what he sees, but we can tell he's alarmed.

They all look at Lex.

Hawk, Trip, and Jam look at their parking spot to see a beat-

up Dodge Dart sitting there instead of the Volvo.

Lex is developing a look of resolve. This is Detroit!

Jam holds up a ten keeping his mouth shut.

Trip smiles proudly.

Hawk points to the intersection where the church, the male

strip joint, the parking lot, and the Smiley Mart are located.

Hawk, Trip, and Lex split up, leaving Jam alone. He starts

walking in the opposite direction, passing MATMOKS. The leader

is still on a roll, yelling through the megaphone.

The leader's gaze finally falls upon Jam. He lets out a GASP.

Yes, the leader is Mrs. Bruce. So this was her church meeting.

She freezes when she sees her son; her jaw slackens. Meanwhile

Jam looks stunned beyond comprehension.

Mrs. Bruce quickly hands the megaphone to another MATMOK

member, who picks up where Mrs. Bruce left off.

Jam looks around for someplace to run and hide, but it's too

late. Mrs. Bruce slices through the crowd of KISS fans and

grabs Jam by the ear. He yelps.

EXT. ST., SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

Mrs. Bruce tugs Jam toward the intersection we saw before.

They cross the street toward the corner where the Cathedral

sits.

Jam looks up at the cross on the steeple and GULPS with

trepidation.

They climb the steps to the cathedral passing a bulletin

board reading: Thank God It's Friday Mass, 6PM-7PM.

PARISHIONERS exit the beautiful church, shaking hands with a

PRIEST as they leave.

Mrs. Bruce pulls Jam up to the priest.

Meanwhile, across the street...

EXT. WHITE CASTLE HAMBURGER JOINT - NIGHT

Parked in front of the busy fast-food establishment we

recognize the two-toned Chevy Impala with luggage tied on

top. In the window we see Beth and her parents sitting at

one of the booths.

Out the window Beth looks across the street just as Jam,

Mrs. Bruce, and the priest enter the cathedral. Her face

drops.

Beth points to St. Sebastian's.

Beth is already out the door and halfway across the street.

Dad pats mom's shoulder.

EXT. ST. SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

Beth runs up to the cathedral and sneaks in.

EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT

Hawk walks down the sidewalk badgering everyone passing by

for a ticket, getting the same stock answer: "Suffer, dude!"

He stops and sits on a curb, lighting a cigarette. Behind

him stands the marquee for IT'S RAINING MEN, the male strip

joint. A DISCO SONG comes from inside. Just when it looks

like Hawk's given up, a VOICE is heard above.

Hawk can't believe his ears. He looks up at a greasy-looking

hybrid, part porn star, part used car salesman, the SCALPER.

Trying to act confident, Hawk takes out his money clip showing

the scalper twenty-five dollars.

The scalper points over his shoulder and Hawk turns to see

three GIGGLING WOMEN exiting the strip joint. None are under

forty.

A sign below the bar's logo reads: Amateur Night Giveaway!

Guys Over 18 Only! Bare It All And Win 75 Bucks!

The scalper turns and Hawk grabs his arm.

Hawk gets a look of resolve on his face.

Hawk turns and walks up to the door, hesitating before opening

it. Rummaging through his pockets, he pulls out a handful of

expired driver's licenses.

Choosing the one he thinks best suits himself, he walks in

with trepidation. The scalper sees someone else coming up.

It's Trip.

Trip exits FRAME.

INT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT

Hawk enters your average, everyday, male strip joint. A crowd

of LUSTY WOMEN cheer on a STRIPPER IN A FIREMAN'S SUIT. He

dances on a lighted, tile stage under a spinning, mirror

ball.

Hawk shows the MAN AT THE DOOR his fake license and the man

nods him in. He approaches the bar in the early stages of

being very intimidated.

The BARTENDER, a man dressed only in tight, black, tuxedo

pants, shirt cuffs, and a tie, comes up to Hawk.

The bartender gives Hawk the once over.

Hawk squints at a name tag on the bartender's tie.

Dickey goes to the bottle rack on the other side of the bar.

Dickey returns with the drink and Hawk pulls out his money

clip.

Hawk looks at the unfamiliar drink again trying to play it

cool.

Dickey points to a WOMAN sitting at the end of the bar. Mature

and sexy. She's a knock-out. Every teenage boy's fantasy.

Hawk's eyes pop at this "Mrs. Robinson" before him.

Dicky pats Hawk's shoulder and leaves. Hawk looks away from

Amanda and scans the room. He glances back at Amanda. She's

still gazing at him the way queens of yore must have eyed

particularly cute knights. She winks and toasts Hawk.

Hawk raises his glass smiling nervously. They both sip at

their drinks. She licks her lips suggestively at him. And,

Hawk proceeds to COUGH up his mouthful of Jack Daniels,

SPRAYING it all over the bar.

EXT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

Your typical 70's convenient store. Out front two SIX YEAR

OLDS in Star Wars tee-shirts play tug-o-war with a Stretch

Armstrong doll.

Trip stomps over grabbing them by their mini shirts. When he

tries to act tough, it's pathetic. Even six year olds aren't

afraid.

He grabs the Stretch Armstrong and stuffs it in his pocket.

The kids run away.

INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

The store is crawling with KISS FANS, some reading the comic

books, others playing pinball against a far wall, still others

looking at the poster section. Trip enters on a mission.

He looks around catching the eye of a pretty CASHIER. She's

a rocker, wearing a Who tee-shirt, a mood ring, and just a

little too much make-up. She smiles at him. Trip returns the

smile with a feeble wave. Her mood ring turns from blue to

pink.

Concentrating on the layout of the store, Trip peers all the

way to the back to a darkened corner... where he spies a

LITTLE KID wearing a KISS tee-shirt playing a KISS pinball

machine.

Trip smiles. The eagle has spotted a fuzzy, little bunny. He

moves in for the kill, walking past a crowd of kids at the

magazine rack, past the Hostess aisle, past the dairy cooler

and into the darkened corner.

He stands behind the little kid, relishing this moment. The

kid is actually pretty good. We also see now the little kid

has his face painted like Ace Frehley.

Suddenly distracted, the kid loses the ball.

Trip clamps a hand over the little kid's mouth.

The little kid says something but Trip's hand muffles his

words.

The kid says what he said before, but it is utterly

incomprehensible, once again thanks to Trip's hand.

Trip pulls his hand away.

The kid turns and yells into the store before Trip can stop

him.

A titanic guy at the comic book rack looks up from his issue

of "Thing" when he hears his name. CHONGO has a very low

forehead and the expression of an angry bull plastered onto

his face.

Chongo is getting ever-closer with his tree trunk legs, his

barrel chest and hydraulic biceps. He is joined by TWO BUDS.

Chongo arrives eyeing Trip with distaste. Trip goes white.

Chongo and his two buds laugh. Then, without a second of

warning, Chongo belts Trip in the gut. Trip doubles over and

falls breathlessly to his knees.

Trip catches his breath.

Chongo scratches his head.

The little kid taps his finger on his chin and the theme

from "JEOPARDY" begins. While the kid thinks, Trip looks

nervously up at Chongo and his buds. Chongo reaches into his

denim vest pocket and we hear a CRINKLING NOISE. He comes

back up with two walnuts, putting them between his bicep and

forearm.

Trip watches in horror as Chongo makes a muscle and the

walnuts are shelled between two walls of iron-hard flesh.

CREEEAAAACK! Chongo eats the walnuts, shells and all.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

The full-to-capacity parking lot is patrolled by a couple of

SECURITY GUARDS.

Lex cautiously makes his way to the edge of the parking lot

and looks at the back side of Cobo Hall just beyond the chain

link fence that surrounds the lot.

He crouches down and walks between two cars parked against

the fence, looking both ways. Seeing a guard's flashlight

beam, he sits stock still until the beam sweeps past, then

SIGHS eased.

Lex finds a vertical break in the chain link. He lays on his

back, slides through, then stands on the other side of the

fence. He's at the edge of a weedy, littery field that also

happens to be poorly lit.

Spooked, he lays down again intending to slide back through

when a flashlight beam hits his eyes.

Lex sees the guard standing about fifty feet away on the

other side of the fence. Panicking, he bolts deeper into the

field.

Lex double-times it as we hear the guard yelling into his

walkie-talkie.

The field gets darker as Lex closes in on Cobo Hall's well-

lit loading dock, where ROADIES empty the remaining bits of

KISS's monstrous set from an 18-wheeler. Other huge trucks

are parked nearby. There's a bustle of last minute activity.

EXT. LOADING DOCK - NIGHT

Lex scurries from giant speaker box to a stack of lights to

huge trunks, keeping well hidden. He dodges roadies and avoids

being seen by OTHER GUARDS.

He slithers along side the 18-wheeler and nears the loading

bay. Up ahead some auxiliary speakers, drum kits, and

scaffolding wait their turn to be carried into the building.

Lex spins. The security guard, flanked by two others, barrel

right for him.

He dives rolls under the 18-wheeler. The three security guards

leap for the pavement and crawl under the semi after him.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE SEMI

The three guards scramble to their feet and grab a SCRAWNY

BODY. They spin him around roughly.

They suddenly realize they've got the wrong man. It's a

roadie.

The roadie holds up his all-access laminate angrily.

The security guards look around frantically for Lex as other

roadies join in to defend their comrade.

No one pays attention as a bass drum is carried past the

guards and up the loading dock ramp. They don't notice Lex

crammed inside contorted into a shape befitting a yoga master.

Praying he won't be spotted, Lex holds his breath as he's

carried into the building and disappears.

INT. ST. SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

Jam sits in the front pew, head buried in his hands as Mrs.

Bruce and the priest talk on the alter.

Beth moves quietly in the back, unseen and unheard. She looks

overwhelmed by the architecture, the detail on the stained

glass windows, the icons carved into the columns that support

the extravagantly decorated ceiling.

The priest catches a glimpse of Beth meandering in the back.

Beth smiles nervously and heads back toward the front door

passing a confessional booth. She throws a glance back at

the priest and Mrs. Bruce who have returned to conferring,

their backs to her. She stealthily ducks into the booth.

Mrs. Bruce looks down at Jam and sees his drumsticks poking

out of his socks. She immediately takes them out and stuffs

them into her jacket. Jam doesn't even move.

Jam is stung. Mrs. Bruce and the priest head back down the

center aisle exiting through the gigantic front doors. She

eyes Jam.

He lets her out and locks the door, leaving the keys in the

lock, and walks over to Jam.

He helps the despondent Jam up. They walk to the booth and

Jam reluctantly gets inside.

INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - NIGHT

Jam kneels on the board and a mere two feet behind him, Beth

sits on a bench shrouded in darkness. Her posture is that of

someone with a crate of nitroglycerine on her lap.

We hear the SHUFFLING noise of the priest getting into his

own compartment next door. A moment later the small, eye-

level door SLIDES open. The priest's face is barely visible

on the other side of the thick screen, but he's there.

Beth leans forward slightly and listens to Jam's confession.

INT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT

Hawk's at a bar stool gulping sloppily and woozily from a

rocks glass. Four more empty rocks glasses sit in front of

him. He stares at the sexy woman who smiles back, blowing

him kisses from the other side of the bar.

The EMCEE enters the stage.

The beginning of a rockin' KISS tune comes over the P.A. and

Dicky approaches Hawk.

Hawk wakes up fast. There's nothing more sobering than having

to undress in public.

Hawk thinks about it, then downs the rest of his drink. He

grimaces at it's taste, then opens his eyes with new resolve.

Hawk swivels his bar stool to the right and gets off,

forgetting to stand when his feet hit the floor. He proceeds

to fall flat on his face. Dicky looks down concerned, but

Hawk stands with a little difficulty and heads for the stage.

The crowd of women parts down the middle for him and checks

him out as he walks by. They seem to like what they see.

Hawk looks nervously at the carnivorous faces leering at his

package first, his ass after. What the hell is he doing?

Hawk reluctantly climbs onto the stage and the gals start

CLAPPING to the song. He faces them and starts gyrating his

drunken hips at them, feeling no confidence whatsoever,

until...

The CHEERS start to ECHO and the pulsing lights begin to

hurt his eyes. Hawk watches the world proceed to spin faster

than the disco ball above his head.

He stops gyrating and clutches his stomach. BELCHING. Uh-oh.

Hawk spots an almost-empty beer pitcher one of the CHEERING-

IN-SLOW-MOTION women holds above her head. He runs up to the

edge of the stage, grabs the pitcher, and PUKES.

The cheering and music come to a grinding halt. You can hear

a pin drop as Hawk yacks his guts out into the beer pitcher.

It goes on for an excruciatingly long time, then finally

stops.

Hawk looks up at the hundreds of astonished eyes staring at

him. He wipes his mouth, then a look of ease washes over his

face.

He hands the vomit-filled pitcher back to the shocked woman.

He looks over at the emcee, who gazes at Hawk from the DJ

booth.

The emcee stands perfectly still, jaw agape.

Hawk starts gyrating even though the music is still off. The

emcee shrugs, re-cuing the song. It starts again as Hawk

faces the crowd, dancing with new-found bravado.

The women come out of their dumbstruck comas and reluctantly

start CLAPPING again.

Hawk pulls off his jacket and twirls it over his head Roger

Daltry style. Then he pulls it back down and tosses it into

the crowd. The women actually fight over it.

Encouraged, Hawk then peels off his KISS Army tee-shirt and

hurls it at the women, who SQUEAL with delight. Sure, he may

be scrawny, but they don't mind. This lad's got personality.

Adrenaline pumping, confidence building, Hawk starts playing

the crowd of very responsive ladies.

He unbuttons his jeans first. Then, leaving them on, he does

an "air guitar" medley: Chuck Berry, ZZ Top, Angus Young

from AC/DC, and Elvis Costello in six easy steps.

Hawk finishes off with a Pete Townshend windmill, shaking

his ass at his audience in mid-strum, then licks his finger

and touches one of his cheeks: "hot stuff" (he does this in

a manly way of course).

Then Hawk pauses to adjust what looks to be his underwear

bunching up in his crack.

The women WHOO-HOO.

He segues into a Mick Jagger rooster strut and the ladies go

ga-ga. He makes the sign of the horns with each hand and

wiggles a protruding tongue like Gene Simmons. The gals scream

in orgastic joy.

Then, Hawk goes for the gold. Yes, he does the Fonzie dance!

The women are now overcome by sheer animal lust. Hawk's

whipped his audience into a frenzied pack of bitches in heat.

Amanda smirks and sucks from her little drink straw

suggestively.

At long last Hawk figures he has to give them what they want.

He puts his fingers to his fly, pauses, then unzips. His

Brittanias fall to his ankles, revealing a pair of bony legs

sticking down from some KISS boxer shorts. The ladies go

batty.

Unfortunately Hawk has neglected a cardinal rule of disrobing.

Never pull your pants down without taking your shoes off

first. He tries to kick off his shoes. The left one goes

flying across the bar and THWACK, beans a MIDDLE-AGED WOMAN

in the face. She flies backwards over a chair.

Trying to kick the other shoe off, Hawk loses his balance

and falls backwards, hitting his head on the edge of the

bar.

INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

Trip looks at the little kid, Chongo, and the two buds in

fear.

The little kid shakes his head in disgust.

Chongo advances, muscles flexing.

The little kid and Chongo look at each other.

They look back at Trip.

Trip nods sullenly as the kid, Chongo, and the two buds exit.

Then he checks to make sure Stretch Armstrong is still with

him.

INT. BASS DRUM - NIGHT

Lex is twisted like a pretzel as he's carted into the bowels

of Cobo Hall. He tries to keep calm, but it's not in his

nature.

INT. COBO HALL/RECEIVING AREA - NIGHT

ROADIES and TECHIES run in all directions as last minute

preparations are being attended to.

Two roadies carry the base drum down a long ramp unaware

that Lex is hidden inside.

Suddenly, Roadie #2 snags his foot on a mess of cable and

loses his balance, dropping the oversized drum. In an instant

the drum goes rolling down the ramp quickly gaining speed.

The roadies bolt after the runaway drum. Other workers scurry

out of the way to avoid being hit by the speeding instrument.

INT. BASS DRUM - NIGHT

Lex spins like in a dryer on speed.

INT. COBO HALL/RECEIVING AREA - NIGHT

More techies jump out of the way as the wayward drum heads

right for a closed set of double doors. The roadies are just

about to grab it before impact, when...

The door unexpectedly swings open. The FOXY GROUPIES on the

other side scream at the sight of the careening drum heading

straight for them.

Too late. The groupies jump away as the drum flies through

the open door and down a flight of stairs.

INT. COBO HALL STAIRWELL - NIGHT

The drum bounces down the zigzag stairway violently. Lex's

GRUNTS of pain can be heard from inside.

AT THE BOTTOM

The big drum hits the landing hard, tips over, then spins

like a quarter getting faster before it stops.

ON THE ROADIES

They barrel down the stairs two at a time. Finally reaching

the bottom, they grab the drum.

As they carry the drum back up the stairs, we see it is now

empty. Once the roadies are gone, CAMERA TILTS UP to the

ceiling. There's Lex clutching exposed pipes for dear life,

hanging upside down, praying the coast is clear.

INT. CONFESSIONAL - NIGHT

Jam is at the end of his confession. The priest is still

listening on the other side of the screen. Beth sits in the

shadows behind Jam.

The priest SLIDES the door shut again. Jam is all but shrouded

in darkness, but can make out the time on his watch. It's

getting late. He resignedly sits on the bench behind him...

right on Beth's lap.

Jam yells, but Beth throws her hand over his mouth. His eyes

bulge. He can't believe what he's seeing. He climbs off Beth

and sits next to her.

Jam thinks for a beat. Something still isn't quite clicking.

BETH can hardly speak. She gulps thinking of what to say.

Beth gives him the biggest, wettest, sloppiest kiss in

recorded history. She pulls away finally wiping her mouth.

She lunges at him again, kissing him for dear life. Her lips

leave his and begin to explore his chin, neck, ear.

He kisses her neck. Unable to stop, they start undressing

each other, both breathing heavy.

She tears his tee-shirt open with her teeth.

INT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP JOINT - NIGHT

A really buff STRIPPER dressed as a construction worker is

on stage with about ten others who stand in the background.

The emcee's hand hovers above the stripper's head.

The women APPLAUD as we...

FOLLOW the emcee's hand to Hawk who holds an ice pack on the

side of his head.

The women APPLAUD but not quite as loud.

The women cheer and a DISCO SONG starts as Troy does a reprise

of his act. Hawk walks away from the stage with the rest of

the rejected strippers, looking the way he feels: pretty

damn stupid. He puts on his pants, trying to walk at the

same time and falls to his knees.

A helpful hand grabs him under the arm and helps him up.

It's Amanda looking lustier than ever.

Hawk GULPS.

INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - NIGHT

Jam and Beth lay buck naked, tightly wrapped around each

other in the heat of passion on the confessional booth floor.

They kiss, sweat, and PANT heavily.

Suddenly, the sliding door to the priest's booth opens. Jam

and Beth freeze.

We hear the door SLIDE shut again as Beth and Jam pick up

where they left off.

INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

Trip leafs through a KISS comic, not really paying attention

to it. Directly behind him is the register and the CASHIER.

He starts hearing voices in his head. We see SUPERS of his

friends' faces hovering around him.

Trip sends brief, agitated glances around the store meeting

the cashier's eyes again. She smiles at him coyly as she

plays with her mood ring. He gives her the eye, then returns

to his comic.

Trip snaps out of it. All the shoppers and cashier are

starring at him. He COUGHS loudly, clearing his throat to

cover his outburst. The shoppers go back to shopping.

A MAN WITH A LONG COAT enters the store, looks around, then

takes a spot alongside Trip and opens a Mad Magazine.

Trip puts a hand in his pocket and takes one last look at

Stretch Armstrong before stuffing the action figure back in

so it looks like he's got a gun. He takes three deep breaths

and discreetly pulls his knit cap down over his eyes,

revealing it actually as a semi-ski mask that covers the top

half of his face.

Just then, the man with the coat puts the magazine back and

pulls something over his own head.

Trip whirls around pointing Stretch-in-his-pocket at the

cashier...

Just as the man in the coat, now masked with a stocking,

pulls the biggest shotgun ever made from under his coat,

pointing it at the cashier as well. The cashier shrieks. So

does Trip.

His thunder now stolen, Trip drops to the floor along with

everyone else. The air is very tense. The cashier starts

SOBBING, keeping her hands in the air.

Man with the coat COCKS the chamber and the cashier

immediately opens the register drawer and starts emptying

it.

The man with the coat's laughter ECHOES in Trip's head till

he just can't take it anymore.

ON THE CASHIER

She suddenly shoots a surprise glance over the man with the

coat's shoulder.

Seeing this, the man spins around. There's Trip behind him.

Astounded by Trip's audacity, the man with the coat turns

his shotgun point-blank at Trip.

INT. COBO HALL/BACKSTAGE - NIGHT

Your wildest fantasy of a rock show's backstage area come

true. The place is packed with "beautiful" people. Scantily-

clad BABES everywhere. Slick, RECORD BIZ-TYPES. Lots of food.

Lots of booze. Lots of fun. It's backstage at a KISS concert,

come on!

CAMERA TILTS UP above the partying hordes to find Lex shimming

along an exposed duct amid the pipes, sprinklers, and vents.

Looking straight down on everybody, Lex is in awe and

disbelief.

He takes the opportunity to peer down some BIG BUSTED GIRL'S

cleavage. Then his eye spots something else. He GASPS. A

door. On it a star. Written on the star, the word, KISS.

A big-haired HIPSTER in mirrored sunglasses KNOCKS on the

dressing room door. It opens, but Lex can't see inside. The

hipster stands in the doorway talking to whoever is there.

Lex cranes his neck to see around the door jamb. Desperate

for a glimpse of his idols, he leans out too far.

Suddenly, the entire duct collapses. Breaking loose of the

ceiling, Lex hurls to the floor clutching the duct. Backstage

goers leap for cover as SMASH... he hits the ground in a

shower of plaster and dust.

The hipster protectively pulls the dressing room door shut

as two SECURITY MEN jump in front of it.

Instantly, huge, burly hands come down on Lex's shoulders.

Before he can react, a slew of OFFICERS have him off his

feet and carry him away, a stunned expression frozen to his

face.

EXT. ALLEY BEHIND COBO HALL - NIGHT

Lex is thrown into a heaping garbage dumpster by the scruff

of his neck. The security officers laugh and pat themselves

on the back as they hurry back in.

Lex peeks out the lid. The alley is dark and spooky. He jumps

out of the trash and comes face to face with the biggest

GERMAN SHEPHERD that has ever lived. Its teeth are bared and

its black, wolf-like body is coiled, ready to spring.

GRRRRRRR!

Lex jumps backward hitting the dumpster. A GROWLING PITBULL

walks out from the shadows and joins the Shepherd.

Then, a GROWLING DOBERMAN with a spiked collar emerges from

the darkness on the other side of the alley, its solid,

muscular form making the brick building nearby look like

jello.

Lex starts SLAPPING himself on the face.

No luck. He stops, when several other DOGS emerge from the

shadows and gather behind the first three. These new mutts

immediately join in the GROWLING chorale. The Shepherd snaps

at Lex.

The pack BARKS even louder.

INT. CONFESSIONAL BOOTH - NIGHT

Beth lays in Jam's arms on the floor. They might as well be

the only two people on the face of the earth. They whisper.

She opens her backpack and pulls out a package addressed to

Jam. The return address reads: Beth Bumsteen, Somewhere in

Ann Arbor.

Jam opens the box and his jaw drops. It's a black tee-shirt

with the "Mystery" logo printed in white on the chest. Jam

holds it up. It's gigantic.

Touched, Jam kisses her for a long time. He starts putting

on the shirt when suddenly they hear the SHUFFLING of the

priest entering his booth. Jam grabs his clothes and sits

back on the bench. Beth starts getting dressed at his feet.

Beth is tying her shoes. Jam slips on his socks.

Jam pauses.

Fully dressed, Beth crawls out of the confessional.

Jam quietly sneaks out.

INT. ST. SEBASTIAN'S CATHEDRAL - NIGHT

We can hear the priest's voice as Jam hurries to Beth. They

dash out the door.

EXT. ALLEY BEHIND COBO HALL - NIGHT

Still trapped by the GROWLING, BARKING pack of dogs, Lex

searches nervously through the garbage behind him.

Lex holds up a worn-out, old frisbee.

The pack just glares and SNARLS. He tosses the frisbee over

the packs' heads, but the dogs don't even acknowledge it.

They just keep BARKING and GROWLING.

Meanwhile, an unnoticed dog at the rear of the pack, a mangy

Basset Hound, turns its flat head to see the frisbee land on

the ground behind him. His tail starts to wag.

Lex waits before the GROWLING, SNAPPING canines. Suddenly,

the Basset Hound runs up in front of the pack and drops the

frisbee at Lex's feet. Lex looks down at the floppy, wrinkly

dog, who wags its tail and PANTS furiously.

Lex starts to pet the hound, and one-by-one the rest of the

dogs shut-up. Shocked, Lex picks the frisbee up again and

throws it.

This time the entire pack bolts after the Whammo product.

Lex smiles, watching them fight for it in the air... in SLOW

MOTION... as the theme from "CHARIOTS OF FIRE" begins.

The black Shepherd finally grabs the frisbee in its mouth

and runs back toward Lex. It's soon joined by the rest of

the pack. That's right about when Lex realizes they aren't

going to stop.

The dogs plow into Lex full-force knocking him into the

garbage. They surround him licking his face. Lex bursts into

unstoppable laughter.

Pulling himself up, he pets the dogs as they jump around him

wagging their tails and PANTING.

Lex stops. He hears TALKING coming from inside the windowless,

brick building on the other side of the alley. He steps in

front of the pack and puts his fingers to his lips. They

obey, quieting instantly. He then tiptoes to a thin crack in

the brick wall. The dogs quietly follow.

Lex puts his eye to the crack and peers in.

INT. CHOP SHOP - NIGHT

LEX'S POV

His mom's Volvo and a BMW are on adjacent hydraulic lifts

inside a makeshift auto-mechanic shop.

Two BEEFY JERKS with blow torches stand next to the cars.

One has a bandage on his head and seems to be in pain.

Beefy jerk #2 laughs.

Beefy jerk #2 laughs more. Beefy jerk #1 checks the time.

Then a familiar voice is heard coming from the back of the

shop.

Lex follows the voice and sees Christine handcuffed to a

radiator near the rear of the shop.

Beefy jerk #2 bares what's left of his yellow, crusty teeth

Beefy jerk #1 touches the bandage on his head.

Christine GAGS at the thought.

ANGLE ON WALL CRACK

Lex's eyeball bulges with terror.

EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN PARKING LOT - NIGHT

DOLLY FROM the front end of a Jaguar XKE, Michigan vanity

plate reading: AMANDA.

TO its windshield, through which we see Hawk and Amanda

kissing in the front seat, clad only in their underwear.

Something like "ME AND MRS. JONES" plays on the radio. When

they separate, Amanda takes out a flask and offers it to

Hawk.

He gulps some down and pulls the flask away COUGHING.

Amanda plants a stocking foot on Hawk's crotch and rubs.

Hawk's eyes cross as he lets out a DEEP, OBNOXIOUS GROAN.

Amanda looks down at his crotch.

Hawk has never been more embarrassed.

She takes a healthy swig of gin, relishing its bitterness.

She pats his shoulder.

Hawk stares out the windshield.

Amanda caresses Hawk's cheek. He turns with her hand and

kisses it. He takes her arm and begins kissing his way up to

her neck, her cheek, her mouth...

INT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

It's a stand-off. Prone customers look up at Trip and the

man with the long coat circling each other like sharks. The

helpless cashier lets out fearful sobs.

The man with the coat puts his shotgun against Trip's head.

Trip GULPS. The jig's up. He slowly pulls out Stretch

Armstrong, and the man with the coat glances down and starts

to laugh very loud. So loud, he throws his head back.

When he recovers, Trip's got Stretch aimed at his head and

pulled back to maximum tension.

Trip lets go. WZZMACK! The man gets it right in the face and

falls backward onto the Hostess display, toppling a whole

bunch of Ho-Ho's, Ding-Dong's, Twinkies, and Suzy-O's to the

ground.

Trip runs up and grabs the shotgun away as the man with the

coat lifts his head briefly, then passes out.

Trip turns around and the cashier SLAMS into him, nearly

knocking him over. She throws her arms around him letting

out relieved SOBS. Behind her all the customers rise from

the floor CLAPPING. Trip did it. He saved the fucking store!

The cashier looks into Trip's masked eyes.

She plants a thousand mega-watt kiss on his lips and we ZOOM

IN on her mood ring changing color from gray to fire engine

red.

Trip's eyes widen just before... KABOOM... The shotgun he's

holding goes off, blowing a hole in the ceiling.

The recoil from the blast jolts Trip and the cashier apart.

We now see Trip's face is smeared with bright, red lipstick.

A huge chunk of ceiling falls onto his head but he doesn't

move. The kiss hit him harder.

INT. CHOP SHOP - NIGHT

BZZZZZ! Christine and the beefy jerks watch the brown, '78

Volvo, Ohio plates: OB-GYN, ascend on a hydraulic lift.

Behind them sits the BMW skeleton. These boys work fast.

The beefy jerks laughs.

They put their blow torches down and turn to her.

They giggle maniacally and lumber toward Christine. Their

shadows growing larger and larger across her.

They both laugh. Just as they're about to grab her...

Suddenly, the garage door behind them SLIDES UP revealing

darkness. Christine and the beefy jerks look out anxiously.

Silence except for CRICKETS. Then... from out of the darkness

emerges a figure... Lex. Christine's eyes brighten like a

bulb.

The beefy jerks laugh at this little punk. They start toward

him, one with a tire iron, the other a big monkey wrench.

Lex lets out a quick HIGH-PITCHED WHISTLE. The pack of BARKING

dogs led by the Shepherd, the Pit Bull, the Doberman, and

the Basset Hound, step from the darkness and flank Lex,

GROWLING and SNARLING at the beefy jerks.

The beefy jerks drop their tools on their feet and yelp in

pain. The pack takes this as a threat and charge the beefy

jerks, who bolt for a glass-partitioned office. The dogs

SCRATCH and BARK at the window ferociously.

Lex smiles at Christine. She smiles back. He presses the

"down" button on the lift and the Volvo descends. Lex yells

to the beefy jerks through the glass.

Lex unlocks Christine. She leaps into his arms.

She gives him a lingering kiss. Lex leans back, gives the

double thumbs-up, and says...

Lex takes her hand and they walk over to the Volvo. Lex lets

her in then rounds the car to the driver's side.

They nod. Lex drips a dry smile onto them.

The beefy jerks watch in disbelief as the Volvo SCREECHES

out of the chop shop.

EXT. WHITE CASTLE PARKING LOT - NIGHT

Beth's parents wait in the running car as Jam and Beth share

a heartfelt good-bye outside the back door.

Jam takes her hands.

They stare at each other for a really long time. Then, kiss.

BEEP. BEEP. Dad looks back out the window and CLEARS HIS

THROAT LOUDLY.

She gets in the car. They both wave as the Impala turns a

corner out of sight. Jam is left alone still waving long

after she's gone.

INT. AMANDA'S JAG - NIGHT

Amanda and Hawk are half-dressed post-coitus. She looks in

her purse.

She forces the money into his palm.

They kiss.

EXT. SMILEY MART - NIGHT

The cashier, shoppers, and a gathering CROWD watch two cops

load the dazed man with the coat into a cruiser.

The cops shrug and get into the cruiser.

The cruiser takes off and the cashier stares at her mood

ring. It throbs red like a beating heart.

CAMERA TRACKS BACK QUICKLY AND SWINGS JUST AROUND THE CORNER.

EXT. SMILEY MART PARKING LOT - NIGHT

We find Trip counting his money out to the little kid, Chongo,

and their two buds.

The little kid puts the money in his pocket.

Chongo reels back and...

THWAM! Right in Trip's face. Trip flies off his feet into

the Smiley Mart brick wall with a THUD. A bag of weed drops

from his jacket, then some uppers, a few sheets of acid, and

finally a can of beer rolls out.

Chongo laughs like an ejaculating gorilla as he and his two

buds scoop it all up. The little kid, Chongo, and the buds

leave Trip lying in a puddle of his own nose blood.

He pulls out Stretch Armstrong and looks at him fondly.

Trip looks up. The six year olds who he stole it from stand

close by having watched the whole humiliating exchange.

Licked, Trip tosses the doll to them. They both dash away

with it, giggling.

EXT. NEARBY STREET - NIGHT

Christine sits in an idling taxi taking money from Lex, who

stands outside the window.

Christine takes his hand and writes something on his palm in

lipstick.

She gives Lex a kiss then pushes him away.

The taxi SCREECHES away as Lex smiles and gets back into the

Volvo.

INT. COBO HALL - NIGHT

Jam approaches the stadium, passing the MATMOKS, walking

straight up to Mrs. Bruce. Her back is to him. He taps her

on the shoulder. She turns. Her jaw drops. It escaped again!

And what an ugly tee-shirt.

Taken aback by his confidence, Mrs. Bruce grabs his ear and

tries to pull him away. He won't budge.

A BUNCH OF IDIOTS walk by with big transistor radios. One of

them holds a Mr. Microphone and heckles the MATMOKS.

Mrs. Bruce yells at Jam through her bullhorn.

Jam yanks the Mr. Microphone from the lead idiot and screams

at his mother, his voice amplified on the transistors.

Everyone stares.

The other MATMOKS turn to look as Jam climbs onto a trash

receptacle and shouts down at his mother, his face slowly

turning purple.

The crowd of KISS fans APPLAUD Jam's rant. Mrs. Bruce is

utterly winded from the assault.

The crowd cheers. Jam jumps down and hands the Mr. Microphone

back to the lead idiot. He turns to his mom.

Mrs. Bruce reaches into the trash, finds the drumsticks and

hands them to him. He spins them like pistols, then stuffs

them into his socks and walks away.

EXT. IT'S RAINING MEN STRIP CLUB - NIGHT

Hawk runs to the scalper across the street who's selling a

ticket to another KISS fan.

The scalper sees Hawk and bolts down the street disappearing

around a corner. Hawk stops. He's lost him.

Hawk sulks to the now-familiar intersection where all four

landmarks meet. He takes one more look up the block at Cobo

Hall. Nearly all the KISS fans are inside. The streets are

almost deserted.

He sees someone out of the corner of his eye across the

street. It's Jam. Lex approaches the other corner. Trip comes

up to the forth corner. They all stop when they see each

other. Each standing on his own corner. They're all pissed.

They meet in the middle of the street as last minute CONCERT

GOERS hurry by.

They all shake no.

Suddenly, a commotion up the street. A SURLY MOM yanks four

12 YEAR OLD BRATS dressed like KISS by the scruffs of their

necks. She's furious, they're CRYING.

She throws a wad of paper to the pavement as they pass our

four heroes. The dudes watch her pull the brats away.

Jam, Hawk, Lex, and Trip turn and look at the crumpled wad

at their feet. It's an envelope. An ANGELIC SPOTLIGHT FROM

ABOVE highlights it.

They all shake their heads in unison resolved that it isn't.

Then, unable to control themselves, they dive for the

envelope. Jam tears it open. His trembling hand reaches in.

All their eyes focus like lasers on what's inside.

Jam pulls out four KISS tickets. Their jaws drop. Their eyes

bug.

The boys are practically moved to tears. It's Divine

Intervention at its finest.

Suddenly, a greasy hand juts out of nowhere and grabs the

tickets. The boys look up shocked. They can't believe it.

Yes, Elvis. Fire in his eyes. Mania on his mind. And tickets

in his hand.

Elvis stuffs all four tickets in his mouth and chews crazily.

In seconds, GULP. Elvis explodes into unhinged laughter as

he runs away zigzagged down the street.

Our boys are left dumbstruck and speechless. After a really

long pause...

They stand and think for a moment. Hawk's mouth curls into a

devilish grin.

Then, he lets out a gigantic "AIEEE!!! and slugs Jam. The

four boys brutally pummel one another in the middle of the

intersection. Punching. Kicking. Headbutting.

EXT. COBO HALL - NIGHT

Two TICKET TAKERS are letting the last KISS fans in. They're

about to close the doors when our four bloodied and bruised

heroes come running up.

Trip points into the crowd of fans inside the auditorium

foyer.

The ticket takers turn to see the little kid, Chongo, and

their two buds just going in. The ticket takers signal two

security guards who proceed to stop the four stunned kids

and confiscate their tickets. They find all the stolen dope

and Trip's wallet.

The security guards see he's right and break out the cuffs.

The little kid for once is speechless.

Then the ticket taker extends his arm in SLOW MOTION into

COBO Hall as if to say "Entrez Vous." The four friends pause.

They take a few slow steps almost as if they don't believe

it, then run like the wind into the auditorium.

INT. COBO HALL AUDITORIUM - NIGHT

The lights are out. The lighters have been lit. The CROWDS'

ROAR is deafening.

Jam, Hawk, Trip, and Lex plow their way through the throngs

and head straight for the front row just as Simple Simon

takes the stage.

Simple Simon runs from the stage just as the opening chords

to DETROIT ROCK CITY BEGIN.

On the beat, BOOM, FIREWORKS shoot from the floor alighting

the place. KISS takes the stage descending on hydraulic

elevators.

ON JAM, HAWK, TRIP, AND LEX

They're seeing God!

The show is spectacular. The costumes. The make-up. The

blitzkrieg of pyrotechnics. The flashing KISS sign. Ace's

smoking guitar. Gene's spewing fire. Paul's rockin' vocals.

Peter's kick-ass beat.

Then, something really weird happens.

The crowd behind the boys heaves forward. Jam is pushed like

a twig in a flood and over the shoulders of those in front

of him. Purely by accident, he is thrown onto the stage

landing on his stomach between Paul and Gene. Just before

Peter's drum solo is about to start.

Gene, Paul, and Ace silence their instruments. Peter throws

his drumstick into the air intending to catch it when it

comes down. But the sight of Jam landing on the stage

distracts him.

All is mute as Peter misses the drumstick. It hits the outside

edge of one of the drums.

Thinking fast, Jam grabs one of his drumsticks out of his

sock and tosses it to Peter. It tumbles through the air in

SLOW MOTION with a LOW, WHOOPING, HELICOPTER SOUND. We see

the word "Mystery" clearly as it twirls.

Instantly, it's caught in Peter Criss's hand and he brings

it down on his drum not missing a beat. The song resumes

with all its fury as Peter's drum kit ascends on a hydraulic

platform.

Jam scrambles from the stage and leaps back into the audience

barely missing the claws of some security guards.

The four friends pound on each other with unbridled, teenage

exuberance. Will it ever get any better than this?

FREEZE FRAME.

