ON A CLUSTER OF SHEEP, hiding nervously between buildings as

shadows of passing dragons race by. The group moves as one,

receding into a shadowy alley, pushing one sheep out into the

light. It's suddenly snatched and carried into the air!

WHOOSH, WHOOSH, WHOOSH! A wash of VIBRANT COLORS blurs by.

DRAGONS BARREL PAST at a dizzying speed. Their RIDERS SWIPE,

KICK, and ROLL into one another while they WEAVE neck in neck

between the houses, docks, and revamped structures of Berk.

It's like an aerial version of the Monte Carlo race.

Spectators ROAR from wooden bleachers, fastened to cliff

faces and perched over the sea.

FISHLEGS, now 20 and even larger, rides his gronkle, MEATLUG,

who carries the sheep in her claws, until...

SNOTLOUT, also 20, but every bit as juvenile, and his

Monstrous Nightmare, HOOKFANG, steal the sheep from them.

Snotlout FALLS BACK toward RUFFNUT and TUFFNUT, who lag on

their two-headed Zippleback, BARF & BELCH.

With a chivalrous grin, Snotlout tosses the sheep to Ruffnut.

She SNATCHES it with a sneer and a GRUMBLE.

Barf starts to peel off, spewing gas. Tuffnut mocks Snotlout

with a mugging grin.

Belch ignites the gas, sparking a flashy explosion, and

leaving Snotlout behind in the smoke.

As they rush past the main bleachers, Ruffnut DROPS her sheep

into one of five baskets suspended over a chasm at the lap

crossing. Each backboard bears an image of its corresponding

dragon. The Barf/Belch basket filled to the brim with sheep.

Presiding over the game, STOICK turns to the frenzied crowd.

Stoick eyes an empty basket at the far end, its backboard

painted with an image of Toothless.

WHACK! Snotlout, still smoldering from the blast, gets

CLIPPED from behind. ASTRID, rolls in, astride STORMFLY --

spirited and competitive as ever, and beautiful despite

herself.

BACK TO THE RACERS, as they peel away, pouring on the speed.

The racers chase each other through a sprawling hangar and

into a vast cave, teeming with colorfully painted dragon

stables. They exit through the far side and circle back

through the village, blasting past many of its dragon-

friendly additions.

In the village, a baby Gronkle sneezes, accidentally setting

one of the Viking houses aflame.

Astrid rolls her eyes, peels away from the other dragon

racers, and yanks open a spout on the overhead network of

aqueducts, dousing the flames with a surge of water.

BACK TO STOICK, amused as he watches the racers round the

island, searching for sheep. He turns to Gobber and nods.

A HORN sounds. The racers all turn to each other, excited.

GOBBER loads the BLACK SHEEP onto a catapult.

He pulls the trigger, LAUNCHING the black sheep into the air.

Astrid spots it and steers Stormfly into a steep climb toward

it.

In a flash, Fishlegs and Meatlug blur past, NABBING the

sheep.

Fishlegs tosses his captured prize to Ruffnut.

Snotlout sighs, frustrated.

Fishlegs hovers up nest to Ruffnut with a starry-eyed smile.

She RAMS BARF into Meatlug, sending Fishlegs into an

uncontrolled SPIN. He SLAMS into Snotlout, sending their

dragons TUMBLING head over tail. The crowd goes wild.

He GRABS at the sheep. Ruffnut fights back, inciting a tug-of-

war.

And while they're distracted, Astrid steers Stormfly toward

them, CLOSING IN.

It's MY glory! No sheep, no You're always ruining

glory! EVERYTHING!

Astrid leaps off of Stormfly, runs up Belch's spindly neck,

and PLUCKS the black sheep from the Twins' hands.

She tumbles through the air onto Stormfly, sticking a perfect

landing, black sheep in hand.

BACK TO STOICK, beside himself. The crowd ROARS.

BACK TO ASTRID ON STORMFLY

eyeing the fast-approaching FINISH LINE, unaware as...

FISHLEGS suddenly RAMS Meatlug into Stormfly, sending Astrid

off-course. She recovers and sees Snotlout flying headlong

toward her, war hammer cocked, aiming at Astrid.

Snotlout HURLS his hammer. Astrid ducks and rolls Stormfly

out of the way. The hammer catches Fishlegs in the face with

a CLANG. The crowd collectively winces.

Astrid and Stormfly recover from their roll, loop over the

water, and they BLAST past the finish line, DUNKING the black

sheep into their basket!

The crowd COMES UNHINGED. Astrid flies over the crowd,

basking in her victory.

EXT. OPEN SKY/ISLAND COASTLINE - DAY

(Scene 0300 - AWOL Part One)

A boundless sky. Vast. Clear. Crisp. And from it, a BLACK

SPECK rockets across the horizon. The image of unbridled

freedom.

Tucked into his riding position, HICCUP appears to be part of

TOOTHLESS. They dip, roll and dive, over a sea teeming with

Thunderdrums, pulling off daring maneuvers with honed

refinement, making them seem effortless.

They jackknife, heading skyward, rolling and tumbling through

the ethereal cloud-scapes and joining high-flying Timberjacks

as they soar in formation.

Hiccup is bound head-to-toe in a snug, aerodynamic flight

suit -- an asymmetrical, functional design of leather and

articulated plates. It has an air of Viking bike leather.

Toothless grumbles in protest.

With a click of a lever, he LOCKS the pedals in the flared

tail position. Hiccup then unhooks himself from the saddle.

Toothless SNORTS unenthusiastically.

Suddenly, Hiccup SLIDES OFF of Toothless, peeling away from

him like a skydiver from a plane, YELLING as he plummets.

Toothless dives after him. They spiral through the air, face-

to-face. Toothless is having fun, despite himself.

Hiccup slips his forearms through a pair of tucked leather

flaps... and YANKS, unfurling SHEETS OF LEATHER as he extends

his arms. They catch the wind, SNAPPING OPEN like WINGS...

and sending him GLIDING -- out of control, at first, then

stabilizing. The turbulence buffets his flight suit heavily.

But he's flying!

Toothless unfolds his wings, too, catching up with Hiccup.

The freedom is palpable. Hiccup and Toothless are, for the

moment, the same. Feeling the same rush of adrenaline.

Independently together.

They PLUNGE past cloud formations, splitting apart then

crossing paths again.

Impressive as it is, Hiccup is gliding at a steep angle.

Toothless launches fireballs ahead of Hiccup, boosting him

higher with the expanding heat bursts.

A cloud layer washes past, exposing a towering ROCK

FORMATION, dead ahead.

Hiccup tries to steer himself away, to no avail.

Toothless POURS ON THE SPEED, trying to catch Hiccup as he

HURTLES toward collision. His locked tail makes maneuvering

difficult. He's UNABLE TO PULL UP at a steep enough angle.

At the last second, Toothless BLASTS the jagged rocks just

ahead of Hiccup, then WRAPS Hiccup in his wings as they fly

through it. The obliterated peak rains down around them.

Toothless emerges through the cloud of debris and HURTLES

into the trees of a neighboring peak. They tumble down the

uneven terrain, coming to rest on a small plateau.

Hiccup emerges from the cocoon of Toothless' wings. He

switches his prosthetic riding foot to his walking foot and

stows his leather wings.

The blown up sea stack collapses.

Hiccup reels in his dorsal fin and removes his helmet,

revealing a 20 year old Hiccup framed by wild hair, complete

with a Viking braid.

He walks to the edge of the cliff, taking in the NEW LAND

stretching off into the horizon, its tall cliffs and sea-

stacks adorned with swaying gold birch trees basking in the

dappled afternoon sunlight.

Toothless FUSSES and SNORTS, not amused, shaking off dust and

pebbles like a wet dog.

Hiccup flinches as a pebble WHACKS him on the back of the

head. He looks back to Toothless, who averts his eyes.

Hiccup TACKLES Toothless and tries to put him in a headlock.

Toothless simply stands on his hind legs, lifting Hiccup off

of his flailing feet and dangling him over the cliff's edge.

Hiccup looks down, seeing the precipitous drop below.

WHAM! Toothless flips him over, pinning him to the ground.

Hiccup squirms, throwing mock punches. Toothless playfully

retaliates with feline taps to Hiccup's head.

Toothless rests his head on Hiccup -- SQUEEZING THE AIR out

of him. Toothless then suddenly starts grooming Hiccup,

lapping at his face and covering him in slobber.

Hiccup fights to get free, finally springing to his feet and

shaking off the viscous saliva.

Toothless LAUGHS, pleased with himself.

Shifting his attention back to the new land stretched out

before them, Hiccup reaches beneath his chest plate and

produces a leather-bound book.

He unfurls it to reveal an EXPLORERS MAP, modified with added

strips in every direction to accommodate their ever-expanding

world. Drawings indicate new lands, new tribes, and many new

dragons.

Hiccup peels a fresh strip of paper from a hidden fold in his

flight suit and holds it out for Toothless to lick.

Hiccup affixes the moistened strip to the map's outer edge,

then whittles a pencil and consults a compass affixed to his

forearm.

Toothless GURGLES as he gnaws under his wing, preoccupied.

Hiccup carefully draws the new island's outline.

Toothless' ear plates suddenly SHOOT UP. He ROARS, and his

call is answered by a familiar SCREECH. Hiccup turns to

see...

EXT. SEA STACK/ISLAND COASTLINE - DAY

(Scene 0325 - AWOL Part Two)

ASTRID rising into view, astride Stormfly. Stormfly grabs

talon-fulls of rock to slow her landing.

Astrid dismounts and throws back her fur hood as Toothless

rushes up to greet them.

Astrid sits beside Hiccup, inspecting his latest addition to

the map. Behind them, Toothless greets Stormfly, inciting a

play fight.

He gets to his feet and puffs out his chest.

Astrid smiles and adopts Hiccup's sloppy slouch.

Hiccup breaks character, grimacing at her impression of him.

Astrid laughs, jostling her shoulders in an awkward way.

She laughs, playfully.

She giggles, trying to hold a straight face.

Astrid straightens, her face brightening.

She jumps to her feet, beaming...

And socks Hiccup in congratulations, deliberately hitting the

dorsal fin release button and triggering it to pop up. She

laughs as Hiccup reels it back in, self-consciously.

They're suddenly BOWLED OVER by Toothless and Stormfly.

Astrid helps him up and dusts him off.

Astrid picks up the map, folding it as she paces around him,

processing it all.

She pauses, wincing in sympathy. She turns to Hiccup. He nods

knowingly, taking the map from her.

Hiccup shakes his head.

He shuffles to the cliff's edge, gazing out at the new land.

He sits at the edge, looking burdened, restless. Astrid

approaches and settles beside him, joining him in looking out

at the distant horizon. She weaves another braid into his

hair as she speaks.

She places a hand on his chest.

She kisses his cheek, but gets a mouthful of Toothless'

slobber. She grimaces, wiping it off.

Distracted, Hiccup eyes the horizon keenly.

He turns her face to the horizon. A distant smoke plume rises

from a misty valley.

EXT. LAPLAND WOODS/TRAPPER'S FORT - MOMENTS LATER

(Scene 0400 - Shot Down!)

Hiccup and Toothless fly over the fjord, winding deep through

undulating crimson and gold forests.

Astrid and Stormfly catch up as the autumn colors suddenly

give way to charred timbers. They fly deeper, through ash and

wafting smoke. Ahead, in a sheltered harbor, an explosion of

ice stands as an eerie marker of what used to be a TRAPPER'S

FORT.

They fly through the suspended remains of the buildings,

splintered, and frozen in mid-destruction.

It's at once harrowing and puzzling. Toothless spots an

enormous DRAGON FOOTPRINT in the muddy shoreline below,

leaving him uneasy.

As they crest the ice formations, Astrid spots a CREW OF MEN

at the stern of a moored ship below.

The men fire a stern-mounted cannon. The projectile unfurls

into a NET. Hiccup and Toothless dart out of its way.

It HITS Stormfly, TANGLING her wings and causing her to spin

uncontrolled. Astrid struggles to free her as they HURTLE

toward a collision.

Astrid falls off of Stormfly, but Toothless SNATCHES her at

the last second.

Stormfly hits the ground, tangled in the net. Trappers rush

out of hiding, piling onto her with ropes and weapons. She

whips her tail, sending spikes flying.

A large, raven-haired trapper lunges over the spray of spikes

and lands upon Stormfly's head, twisting it and taking her

down like a rodeo cowboy.

Eret deftly ties her gnashing jaws shut, wrangling her into

submission -- clearly a pro among pros. He looks up,

revealing a handsome face and gleaming, intelligent eyes that

search the sky as Toothless' tell-tale BANSHEE scream rings

out.

Toothless suddenly streaks across the sky, banking and

landing with a FEROCIOUS ROAR.

Astrid and Hiccup leap off of Toothless, rushing toward

Stormfly.

Eret's men immediately draw weapons. Hiccup extends and

ignites his DRAGON BLADE -- a telescoping fiery sword --

impressive enough to wow Eret's men.

Eret steps forward, focused only on Toothless.

His men sound out in agreement. Hiccup eyes Astrid, confused.

Astrid and Hiccup take in the icy destruction, putting it

together.

Eret approaches. Toothless snarls, protectively.

Eret parts his tunic, revealing a large branding-iron scar on

his torso, in the shape of a dragon skull, split by a sword.

Eret bows playfully.

He pulls a dagger from behind his back, waving it cockily.

His men ready their weapons and net cannons.

Toothless ROARS a warning.

Eret lunges toward them. Toothless BLASTS, bringing down a

massive spire of ice. It shatters as it hits the ground,

forcing Eret and his men to dive out of the way.

Making quick use of the distraction, Hiccup re-ignites his

dragon blade and slashes through the ropes binding Stormfly.

Eret gets to his feet in time to see Toothless and Stormfly

take to the air, carrying Hiccup and Astrid out of reach of

the volley of arrows.

I/E. BERK/BLACKSMITH STALL - SUNSET

(Sequence 0500 - Lock-Down!)

The GANG joyrides past GOTHI'S house, scattering her

assortment of terrible terrors. She waves a fist at them as

they sweep past, WHOOPING AND CHORTLING, leading us down

to...

THE UPPER PLAZA, where a GATHERED CROWD of Vikings and their

dragons are cued up outside of Gobber's BLACKSMITH STALL,

awaiting their turns. Stoick maneuvers through the crowd,

spouting JOVIAL GREETINGS in passing.

He makes a bee-line for GOBBER, who is busily grinding a

metal dragon tooth into shape. A Zippleback waits patiently,

his head cocked open like a car hood while the other head

watches, sympathetically.

Gobber flips up his welding guard, revealing a matching area

of unsoiled skin.

A SUDDEN EXCITEMENT in the crowd heralds Hiccup and Astrid's

return. They touch down on Toothless and Stormfly.

Hiccup stows his helmet and heads toward Stoick with urgency.

Stoick hands him an apron and guides him to the front desk.

Stoick changes the rune on the "being served" placard.

STARKARD reaches the counter, giddy with excitement.

Stoick spins Hiccup around, steering him back into the shop.

They step over the tail of a large, snoring oaf of a dragon,

stirring him awake with a fussy start.

Grump coughs a slug of molten lava into the forge. It

splatters everywhere, igniting a rash of fires. Hiccup side-

steps them as he gathers materials in the back of the stall.

Gobber pulls the fire extinguisher, dumping water everywhere.

Stoick fills a toolbox with tools from Hiccup's workbench.

Fishlegs walks in, followed by the Twins and Snotlout.

Stoick slaps a sheet of leather onto a dragon mold, and hands

Hiccup pencil. Exasperated, Hiccup begins tracing an outline

as he speaks.

Gobber spins his prosthetic arm dispenser.

Gobber pops off his prosthetic tongs and selects a wire brush

from his dispenser...

Which he uses to brush his mustache and eyebrows.

Stoick takes the sheet of leather to the table saw...

And pulls a lever, starting it up.

Hiccup pulls the lever, shutting the saw down.

Silence fills the stall. Vikings exchange worried glances.

Stoick's eyes widen. He turns to Gobber, with growing alarm.

Ruffnut grumbles, revolted by their advances.

Stoick grabs Hiccup by the shoulders, wide-eyed and intense.

INT. BERK - DRAGON STABLES - MOMENTS LATER

Stoick rushes down a circular stone staircase into the vast,

bustling cave that houses the dragon stables.

Hiccup, Astrid, Gobber, and Toothless chase after Stoick.

Behind him, the massive storm doors rattle as they're

lowered.

Stoick turns to Hiccup, gravely serious.

Stoick continues on shouting orders, leaving Hiccup stewing.

Hiccup chases around to confront Stoick.

Stoick heads off, calling out more orders...

... leaving Hiccup eyeing Toothless as the storm doors close.

Astrid approaches him, seeing the determination on his face.

He gives her a quick peck on the cheek.

Hiccup and Toothless BLAST PAST, heading for the exit.

They try to fly through one door, but it seals shut.

Toothless spins around and DIVES through the gap in the

second lowering storm door.

Astrid and Stormfly blow past Stoick and slip through the

storm door before it shuts, leaving Stoick fuming.

EXT. OPEN SEA - MIDDAY

(Scene 0700 - Eret's Lesson)

Eret's ship carves a defiant path North, leaving the last

glimpses of Lapland in its wake.

Eret stands on the bowsprit, eyeing the waves intently,

searching the surface. He turns toward the deck, where his

crewmen man the gunwale cannons, sights trained to the sky.

Eret turns in the direction Ug is pointing to see a pair of

dragons flapping toward them.

The crewmen swing the net cannons toward the back-lit,

silhouetted dragons, drawing ever closer.

Eret loads a cannon and takes aim. He spots Hiccup and Astrid

riding the dragons. His eyes narrow, determined.

Nets fly through the air. Hiccup and Astrid outmaneuver them

and dive toward the ship, landing on the deck with a clatter.

Astrid brandishes her axe in invitation. Hiccup indicates for

her to lower it, then holds up his hands in surrender.

Eret's crew exchange confused stares. As does Astrid.

He dismounts Toothless and tosses a net over Astrid.

Astrid grumbles. He takes her axe, hands it to Eret, and

escorts Astrid past the men to the open live well.

He leads Astrid down the ladder. She glares at him, plainly

hating the plan.

Toothless tries to follow them, but Hiccup holds him back.

Hiccup flips the latch, lowering the grate as Eret watches,

confounded.

Eret's men nervously direct their swords and spears toward

Toothless. HE SNARLS.

A burst of flame erupts from the live well, causing the

crewmen to jump back. Hiccup thrusts his Dragon Blade through

the grate.

He retracts the blade and offers it up. A crewman cautiously

takes it, looking it over. The pommel of the hilt is

expelling green gas.

A curious crewman clicks the lighter, igniting the gas.

Hiccup ducks as the sudden explosion sweeps over the deck.

Toothless paws at the embers.

Toothless gurgles and falls over.

Eret snatches the dragon blade and HURLS it overboard.

Stormfly bolts after it...

And returns in a flash, dropping it at Eret's feet like a

fetching dog, tongue wagging. Eret throws it again,

frustrated. Stormfly returns with it just as quickly.

Eret and his crew LAUGH. Astrid pokes out of the well.

Hiccup pets Toothless, thoughtfully.

Hiccup sets Toothless' tail in the locked, splayed position.

Eret sneers, suspicious.

Suddenly, Hiccup is snatched into the air! Dragons blur past.

I/E. OPEN SEA - SHIP - SUNSET

(Scene 1000 - Botched Rescue)

The crewmen SCRAMBLE to the NET CANNONS as a FLURRY OF WINGS

streak past, GASHING holes in the sails and SLICING through

rigging.

Toothless SHRIEKS and bounds up the mast, spotting Hiccup in

the talons of a Monstrous Nightmare. Toothless relaxes,

realizing that it's Hookfang.

Snotlout looks back to see if Ruffnut witnessed the save.

Ruffnut GRUMBLES at the incessant courting. A FLYING NET

whizzes past her head.

Ruffnut spots Eret, FIRING nets from the deck of the ship.

A SLOW MOTION, sexy POV of Eret's glistening biceps,

shuddering as he BLASTS the net cannon, aimed directly at

her.

The net unravels in SLOW MOTION...

... enveloping Ruffnut as she yields to it, blissfully.

BACK TO REAL TIME

As Hiccup FLIPS upside-down in the Hookfang's talons and

KICKS off, pulling his wing-suit flaps.

Eret takes aim, but Astrid SHOVES him, throwing off the shot.

Hiccup glides unsteadily towards the ship and collides with

its sail. He slides down the canvas and drops to the deck.

Toothless lands behind him.

Gobber and Grump land on the deck, scattering Eret's crew.

The bow dips heavily as Stoick touches down on SKULLCRUSHER.

He dismounts, fuming.

Eret blocks Stoick, cocky and confident.

Stoick shoves his face aside, sending Eret SLAMMING into

Grump. Before he can react, Gobber CLUBS Eret on the head,

sending him collapsing to the deck. Grump then sits on him,

smothering him into submission.

Gobber turns to the other crewmen, with a smile.

Eret's men eye the Vikings, armed and flanked by their

dragons. They set down their swords.

Hiccup glares, frustrated.

Stoick SIGHS, realizing that he has to explain.

INT. VIKING HALL - NIGHT

A hulking, cloaked figure strides confidently into fire-lit

hall, interrupting a council meeting of Viking chieftains.

His face is masked in silhouette.

ON STOICK, some twenty years younger, seated in a throne,

studying the impudent stranger with suspicion.

The Viking council erupts in mocking laughter.

BACK TO PRESENT

Snotlout, Fishlegs, and the Twins snicker.

BACK TO FLASHBACK

Drago Bludvist pulls the dragon skin cloak over himself and

marches toward the door. Above, dragon fire rips through the

ceiling, bringing down flaming timbers, followed by dragons

covered in heavy metallic armor. They BLAST FIRE as panic

ensues.

BACK TO PRESENT

The Twins, Snotlout, and Fishlegs exchange spooked glances.

Hiccup turns and stomps toward Toothless, determined. Eret

watches intently.

Hiccup jumps onto Toothless and locks eyes with Stoick.

Toothless and Hiccup TAKE TO THE AIR, leaving everyone

stirring in awkward silence.

Astrid mounts Stormfly, about to go after him.

Astrid stirs, conflicted, as Stoick stomps toward

Skullcrusher, fuming. He passes Ruffnut, who's busily

fondling Eret's biceps as he lays crushed under Grump.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

(Scene 1100 - Ambushed!)

Hiccup stares ahead, frustrated, as Toothless glides over a

bed of clouds, glowing in the low, Arctic sun.

Hiccup YELLS, then slumps back onto the saddle.

Toothless recoils, sensitive to Hiccup's upset. The steam

from their breath mixes in the frigid air.

Toothless' ear plates perk up. He glances over his shoulder

to see a disturbance in the blanket of clouds.

A strange and arresting MASKED WARRIOR rises from the clouds,

standing upon something unseen. Its armor and cape flap in

the buffeting turbulence.

The warrior eyes Toothless and Hiccup, pulling up alongside

them. Hiccup senses the approaching figure in his periphery

and sits up, flustered.

He whirls around expectantly then FREEZES, mouth agape.

The warrior stares blankly, tilting his head in curiosity

while cutting a menacing silhouette.

Then, just as gradually as he rose, the warrior dips back

beneath the clouds, disappearing.

Suddenly, the warrior EXPLODES out of the clouds before them,

standing atop a large dragon. They circle Hiccup and

Toothless, forcing them to TREAD AIR.

The warrior points a staff toward Hiccup, unnervingly, as he

returns to face them.

Toothless GROWLS a warning.

Suddenly, they're ambushed from behind. Hiccup is plucked off

of Toothless by another DRAGON and carried off.

With the tail unmanned, Toothless PLUMMETS helplessly. He

FLAPS wildly then CRASHES through the ice into the black,

frigid water. FLAILING and CRYING OUT, he struggles to stay

afloat as he watches...

Hiccup disappear into the night sky, carried off in the

talons of the strange dragon -- one of TENS that accompany

the warrior in a cavalcade.

Toothless BELLOWS in distress, desperately trying to take to

the air. As he LEAPS and CRASHES, time and again...

A group of SPINY DORSAL FINS split the ice, carving a path

toward Toothless.

Beneath the ice, a pod of SEASHOCKERS approach, two-headed,

with Manta Ray like wings GLIDING silently in the gloom.

Fixated on Hiccup, Toothless is caught by surprise as the

Seashockers surface and DRAG HIM UNDER.

Hiccup's helmet bobs to the surface, marking all that

remains.

EXT. ARCTIC SKY/ARCHIPELAGO - NIGHT (MIDNIGHT SUN)

(Scene 1300 - Dragon Lady)

Hiccup shivers in the claws of the dragon, surrounded by the

strange flock full of breeds he's never seen. He looks back

for Toothless, now long gone.

The warrior offers no response, seemingly immune to the cold

as he leads the dragon flock across the polar night -- an

alien landscape, harsh and foreboding.

Out of the fog looms an EPIC ICE FORMATION -- jagged, spiked,

and similar to the icy aftermath of Eret's fort, but many

times its size.

The DRAGON ESCORT dives into its jagged folds.

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - CONTINUOUS

The WILD RIDE suddenly gives way to a MULTILEVEL, CAVERNOUS

CHAMBER made of ice and columns of basalt rock. It's heavily

populated with dragons of all kinds, looming in the shadows.

Hiccup is dropped in the center. He scrambles to his feet,

calling out into the darkness.

A HISSING dragon CLOSES IN, sniffing, leering, aggressive.

Hiccup extends and lights his telescoping dragon blade,

waving a swirl of fire around himself. The dragon pauses,

intrigued, and then watches hypnotically as Hiccup pacifies

him with calculated sweeps of the fiery blade.

The warrior watches keenly from the shadows.

Several aggressive dragons close in behind Hiccup. Hearing

their hisses, he quickly stows the blade, replaces a

cartridge in its hilt, then flips it around and sprays a

perimeter of Zippleback gas around himself. He clicks the

lighter, igniting a flash ring. The testy dragons recoil.

He then reaches through the smoke, offering his open hand.

The dragons re-approach, sniffing him with calmed curiosity.

ON THE WARRIOR

... tilting his masked head, curious. He dismounts his dragon

and approaches Hiccup.

The warrior circles Hiccup in silence, taking in his gear,

his dragon blade, his face.

The warrior whirls and HAMMERS his staff. In response, a

large dragon ASCENDS from the depths, carrying...

Toothless is dumped on the ground next to Hiccup, sopping

wet. Hiccup rushes to him, petting him reassuringly.

Toothless coos in relief.

The warrior rattles his staff at a nearby dragon. In

response, it and the surrounding dragons produce firelight

from their throats, spotlighting Hiccup and Toothless.

The warrior sets down his staff and shield, then approaches

Hiccup, cautiously and animal-like.

Toothless SNARLS and circles Hiccup defensively, but then

instantly yields to the stranger's outstretched hand. With a

quick, disarming gesture, the warrior lays Toothless down in

a state of bliss. Hiccup is astounded.

The warrior's hand continues toward Hiccup's face. He

recoils, but the warrior persists, finding the faint scar on

Hiccup's chin, glinting in the firelight.

The warrior GASPS and retreats a few steps.

The voice is surprisingly female.

The warrior slowly removes the strange mask, revealing VALKA,

40, beneath. Her eyes meet his, equally wide-eyed and aghast.

Hiccup stammers, tongue-tied, aghast.

EXT. ARCTIC SKY - NIGHT (MIDNIGHT SUN)

(Sequence 1325 - Searching)

Stoick and Gobber search over the frigid waves that lap

against the pack ice.

Gobber glances over at Stoick, who's hunched over, brow

furrowed and solemn.

Framed by a hole in the ice, a glistening object bobs on the

surface below. Stoick squints and CIRCLES BACK, leading

Skullcrusher in a DIVE toward it. Stoick SNAGS it out of the

water. It's Hiccup's helmet.

Gobber pulls alongside Stoick, seeing his look of dread.

Stoick holds the helmet out for his dragon to SMELL.

Skullcrusher SNIFFS the helmet like a bloodhound, ROARS, and

suddenly CHANGES HEADING.

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - TUNNEL - DAWN

(Scene 1400 - A New Family)

CLOSE ON Hiccup, flustered, winded, chasing VALKA through

tightly winding corridors.

Hiccup follows her over the difficult terrain. He tries to

clamber over a tall rock, unsuccessfully.

Toothless boosts him over. Hiccup lands on the other side.

Hiccup trails off as he enters...

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - OASIS - CONTINUOUS

... a stadium-sized chamber teeming with ferns, waterfalls,

hot springs and THOUSANDS of new DRAGONS.

Hiccup wanders in, basking in the in the amazing sight: a

dome of sweating ice capping a geothermal micro climate,

filled with dragons of every shape and kind.

He spots Valka clinging to a basalt overhang, watching him.

She nods from her perch.

She nods again, this time with a smile.

Valka chuckles, and using her dragon's wing, lowers herself

to the ground like a skilled acrobat.

Excited dragons rush up to greet Hiccup and Toothless. Hiccup

pets a few, marveling at the vast dragon utopia before him.

Toothless SNARLS in annoyance as the curious, smothering

dragons SNIFF every part of him.

She reaches out to stroke Toothless, who PURRS at her touch.

She inspects his talons as Toothless rolls onto his back,

nuzzling her.

Hiccup smiles, astounded by Toothless' affection for Valka.

She checks his teeth. They recede into the gums at her touch.

She winces and offers a sympathetic nod as she stands to

caress a few of her own rescued dragons.

She glares, confused.

Hiccup rattles his prosthetic leg with a smirk. Valka

observes their playful rapport with curiosity.

She mutters in agreement.

She smiles at Toothless, dismissive.

EXT. BERK VILLAGE - NIGHT

Dragons sweep from the sky, blowing FIRE, carrying off sheep

and dried fish. Vikings chase them down, hurling weapons.

A Viking is about to finish off a felled dragon, but Valka

chases up to him and tugs at his arm.

The dragon takes wing, escaping to safety... leaving the

Viking warrior glaring at Valka.

As he rushes off, Valka hears a clatter and whirls around to

see a DRAGON (Cloudjumper) clawing its way through the roof

of a house.

INT. STOICK'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Cloudjumper enters the house through the hole in the roof,

sniffing out a baby's cradle in the corner.

Valka rushes in, panicked.

Valka draws a sword quietly, slipping up to the dragon, only

to find it huddled protectively over the cradle as BABY

HICCUP innocently plays with one of its talons.

Valka's careful approach causes a floorboard to squeak.

Spooked, Cloudjumper whips around to face her, accidentally

SCRATCHING baby Hiccup's chin.

Their eyes meet. Valka lowers her sword, transfixed.

Stoick's AXE spins through the air between them, barely

missing Cloudjumper and planting into a pillar.

Alarmed, Cloudjumper WHIRLS around at Stoick and BLASTS!

Stoick DIVES out of the way as the FIRE SPLATTERS against the

wall, burning a hole and setting the room ablaze.

The dragon moves toward Stoick, but Valka grabs hold.

It turns to face her again, locking eyes, agitated.

Stoick dashes through the fire toward Hiccup and pulls him

out of the cradle. He pulls his axe from the pillar...

... but in a WHOOSH of smoke and embers, the dragon and Valka

are GONE.

Stoick and baby Hiccup watch helplessly as the dragon spirits

Valka away into the night sky.

ON BABY HICCUP'S FACE, with the fresh nick on his chin...

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - DAWN

HICCUP'S FACE, with the matching scar.

Hiccup considers this, then raises his eyes to hers, seeing

the sting of remorse.

She leads him to the edge of raised natural terrace,

overlooking the steamy oasis with its flowing hot spring

waterfalls. Half-submerged in the warm lake below, a massive

white dragon with pronounced, mammoth-like tusks rests

benevolently on the banks, his stately countenance like that

of a lion surrounded by his pride.

Dragons land and bow reverentially to the Bewilderbeast.

Valka gestures to the spiked ice ceiling that acts as a

sweating greenhouse.

On HICCUP, putting it together.

They pass an eggshell-littered NURSERY. HATCHLINGS dart out

of it, greeting them excitedly and inciting chaos. Toothless

is overwhelmed by their manic picking and scratching.

Cloudjumper balks and sends them scattering.

The hatchlings clamber on top of the Bewilderbeast and play

on his massive tusks, despite his authority. Valka laughs.

The Bewilderbeast lets out a frosty SNORT, sending off the

youngsters to spread more mischief.

Now awakened, The Bewilderbeast raises his gargantuan head to

take a closer look at Hiccup, coming eye to massive eye.

Valka bows in his presence. As does Toothless.

He acknowledges Hiccup with another icy snort, slicking back

Hiccup's hair in a frosty veneer. Valka laughs.

She chuckles, delighting in his awe.

Toothless tucks himself beneath Cloudjumper's wing, trying to

befriend him, but Cloudjumper isn't having any of it. He

grimaces and follows Valka out.

EXT. OPEN SEA - NIGHT

(Scene 1200 - Astrid Takes Charge)

Astrid and Stormfly circle a lone iceberg, being used as a

rest stop for the Gang and their dragons. She lands with a

frown, eyeing the distance.

Fishlegs strokes his peach fuzz beard, meek and dejected.

She flies off, determined.

EXT. ICE FLOES - NIGHT

Eret's ship is beset by ice floes. The crew stirs on deck as

he paces, grumbling, while nursing his head with a large

chunk of ice.

He's suddenly scooped up in Stormfly's talons.

Nets whiz past as Astrid and the Gang rocket out of range.

Ruffnut grabs his leg, clutching him possessively.

Both Eret and Tuffnut groan in protest.

In enthusiastic response, Stormfly pops open her talons,

sending Eret plummeting. He wails and flails as he hurtles

toward the ice far below.

She dives after him, just as enthusiastically.

ON ERET, terrified, as the ground rushes up at him.

Stormfly suddenly SNATCHES him out of his free-fall just

before hitting the ice. Astrid giggles and cracks her

knuckles.

EXT. SKY - EARLY MORNING

(Scene 1600 - Momma's Boy)

Hiccup and Toothless follow Valka and Cloudjumper over a

majestic fjord in the long rays of the low Arctic sun.

Hiccup peers over his shoulder to see that a thick flock of

dragons -- nearly all of Valka's rescues -- are close on

their tail. He turns back to his mother, confused.

She directs his gaze below, where in the choppy water of the

fjord, a group of Seashocker dragons are corralling a dense

shoal of fish near the surface.

Suddenly, the Bewilderbeast rises from deep below, scooping

the fish up in its vast mouth as its tusks break the surface.

It breaches just below Hiccup and Toothless, giving them a

fright before spitting the fish into the air and crashing

back down into the sea.

Valka laughs at Hiccup's surprise as the hungry dragons race

for the flailing fish, scooping them out of the air. Hiccup

gestures to Toothless to join in and he gladly scoops up a

mouth full.

EXT. SNOWY SHORELINE - LATER

MONTAGE CONTINUES...

Hiccup has his map spread out in the snow, explaining the

various lands he's discovered during his explorations.

He looks up to see that Valka is no longer next to him, but

she has sketched out the rest of the northern land masses in

the snow, wowing Hiccup with just how far and wide she has

explored.

She returned to Hiccup's side with a smile. But his amazement

is interrupted by Toothless joining in, drawing all over

Valka's map with a giant icicle.

Hiccup simply shrugs as his mother giggles, and Cloudjumper

sneers.

EXT. WINDSWEPT CLIFF - LATER

Valka and Hiccup rise on their dragons, carried skyward by a

strong coastal wind that thrusts vertical up shoreline cliff.

One by one, dragons leap from the cliff and catch the strong

updraft, popping their wings open like kites. They ride the

wind and orbit around each other in a colorful, mesmeric

dance. It's clearly a form of dragon play.

Hiccup, lifted off of his saddle by the force of the wind,

laughs giddily as he watches Valka walk across Cloudjumper's

wing and onto several others, dragon-hopping from one to

another, until she gracefully crosses Toothless from wing tip

to wing tip. She then drops out of sight, reappearing a

moment later standing atop Cloudjumper. Hiccup is in utter

awe of her.

Valka breathes in the frigid air. Lets it out blissfully.

She smiles at Hiccup. He gleams back.

Hiccup LOCKS the pedals in the flared tail position and

unbuckles himself. Valka watches, curious.

Hiccup RUNS OFF of Toothless, pulling his stowed wings.

They catch the air, SNAPPING OPEN... and sending him GLIDING.

Valka GASPS, astonished. She flies her dragon alongside him,

marvelling, as...

... Hiccup SOARS, riding the wild air currents like an eagle,

the image of freedom. Toothless descends steadily with him,

hovering protectively.

Hiccup grins, pleased at having impressed Valka... until he

realizes that he is once again racing toward a collision with

a fast approaching mountain top.

But, with his tail locked, Toothless can't make the tight

jackknife turn skyward to rescue Hiccup.

Realizing that they're in trouble, Valka and Cloudjumper pour

on the speed. All four of them collide just as they reach the

mountain top, sending them crash-landing in an explosion of

snow.

They all TOPPLE head over tail to a messy landing on the wind-

swept ridge and pop up LAUGHING.

Toothless raises his snow-packed face, glowering. He tail-

swipes Hiccup off of his feet and back into the powder.

Valka inspects Hiccup's wing suit with utter fascination.

She caresses his cheek, staring deep into his eyes. Hiccup

doesn't recoil this time.

Hiccup smiles, a simple acknowledgement that all is forgiven.

Valka finds a spot at the top of Toothless' neck and rubs in

a circular pattern. In response, his dorsal blades slowly

crack, split and extend, forming a pronounced, aerodynamic

`V' down the length of his back and tail.

Toothless shudders, as if experiencing a much-needed

chiropractic adjustment. He bounds over to Hiccup, giddily

retracting and splaying his dorsal blades like a kid with a

new toy.

Valka smiles, delighting in their mutual amazement.

Toothless pounces around, showing off to Cloudjumper, who

seems thoroughly unimpressed.

She pulls him into a hug -- forceful, bursting with emotion.

Hiccup hugs Valka back. They share a cathartic moment, before

Hiccup peels away from her.

She chuckles, incredulous.

Hiccup stares, exasperated by the familiar line. Cloudjumper

lumbers over, eager to be rid of Toothless' puppy-like

energy. Valka pets him.

Before Hiccup can say anymore, he hear heavy breathing next

to him, and looks over to see Toothless with a gaping grin,

clapping his dorsal blades.

EXT. ICE CAVE - DAY

(Scene 1350 - Meet Drago)

Astrid and the gang stealthily approach a cluster of tabular

icebergs, collapsed against each other at the mouth of a

maze. Stormfly drops Eret to the snow, but before he can

flee, she lands atop him and nests like a hen with her egg.

Stormfly crushes him in place under her weight.

Astrid crawls up the rising ridge to reveal...

A MASSIVE FLOTILLA, moored together like a floating camp in

the deep water between collided icebergs.

Thick chains run deep into the water, where great blasts of

bubbles erupt on the surface. The unseen creature rocks the

ships. Its effect alone describes it as gargantuan.

Fishlegs rifles through his note cards contained in his belt

pouch.

Suddenly, Stormfly is alerted to an encroaching menace and

takes wing. BLOW DARTS whiz through the air, hitting the

other dragons. The effect is immediate -- they fall to the

ground, unconscious. Drugged.

Eret spring to his feet and draws his blades. Astrid and the

Gang find themselves surrounded by soldiers, camouflaged in

polar bear furs, and poised to fire darts. They're

outnumbered. Fishlegs raises his hands, dropping the cards.

EXT. DRAGO'S SHIP - DECK - MOMENTS LATER

DRAGO BLUDVIST, a hulking figure draped in a dragon skin

cloak, crouches over the prow of the fleet's grisly flagship,

adorned in massive dragon bones and skulls. His scarred face

is masked by thick, grizzled dreadlocks.

Drago turns to see Astrid, Eret, and the Gang being forcibly

escorted onto the deck. Eret SHAKES HIMSELF FREE.

In the background, a sledge, loaded with Hookfang, Meatlug,

Belch and Barf -- all unconscious -- is dragged onto the deck

by armored dragons.

The soldiers disarm him, pushing him forward as Drago

approaches.

Hookfang awakens, groggily shaking off the effect of the blow-

dart. He rears as soldiers struggle to reign him in.

They do so. Hookfang bucks and roars, chasing off the

soldiers, then focusing on Drago as he closes in. The armored

dragons avert their eyes and cower as Drago passes.

Hookfang HISSES a warning, but Drago approaches, undaunted.

Hookfang BLASTS. In a blur, Drago wraps himself in his dragon

skin cloak. The sticky, napalm-like fire splatters against

the fireproof scales, enveloping Drago in dripping flames as

he persists forward without missing a step.

As the blast ends, Drago drops the cloak, closing in and

holding a cold stare. Hookfang lets out a ferocious ROAR.

Drago YELLS back with a fierce, savage scream, interrupting

Hookfang and causing him to recoil. Drago whirls his bull-

hook overhead and STABS it into the deck planks.

Hookfang stirs, his aggression fading in the face of Drago's

unflinching show of dominance.

After a moment, Hookfang averts his eyes and lowers his head

in submission. Drago places his boot upon Hookfang's snout,

pressing it into the deck planks.

Drago notices the saddle on Hookfang's back. His eyes wander

to the saddle on Meatlug. Alarm flashes in Drago's eyes.

In a flash, Drago stops toward Eret and seizes him by the

throat.

As Eret chokes, stammering, Astrid whispers to the gang.

His grip tightens around Eret's neck as he turns to Astrid.

Astrid nods a covert signal to the Gang -- she has a plan.

Drago drops Eret as Astrid advances, staring Drago down. Eret

tries to signal her to stop, but it's no use.

Drago's eyes narrow upon hearing Stoick's name.

Eret slips away, trying to distance himself from the tension.

Ruffnut groans, exasperated by their smarmy advances.

Drago grabs Eret by the face and bears down on him.

He THROWS Eret across the deck.

Soldiers CHEER in the thousands.

The soldiers HURL throwing knives at Eret...

But Stormfly lands in a blur of wings, shielding Eret from

the flurry of blades. She whips her tail, throwing spikes in

all directions.

Stormfly ROARS protectively, hiding Eret within her wings,

until a well-blown dart sinks into her neck, bringing her

down...

Revealing Eret, gawking in shock.

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - OASIS - MORNING

(Scene 1800 - Family Reunion)

Hiccup reattaches his flight suit while standing on a ledge

overlooking the utopian nest, teeming with dragons. Several

babies race in to hassle Toothless as he naps.

Suddenly, a thick hand clamps down over Hiccup's face --

muffling his scream!

Toothless whirls around to find STOICK, towering over Hiccup.

He calms Toothless with a touch and releases Hiccup.

Gobber appears in the arch of a tunnel.

They hurry back into the winding corridor.

They round a tight bend in the corridor to find Gobber

staring blankly at something unseen in the next chamber. He

shuffles past Stoick and Hiccup, dazed.

Stoick draws his SWORD, then braves into the chamber ahead.

Stoick GASPS as if seeing a ghost... and drops his sword with

a clatter.

Valka stands some twenty paces ahead of him, blocking the

path. She lets out an audible SHUDDER upon seeing him.

He removes his helmet slowly as Hiccup, Gobber, and Toothless

appear at Stoick's side.

Stoick steps towards her, wide-eyed and speechless. Dragons

emerge from the recesses behind Valka, hissing protectively.

Stoick continues to close the gap, mesmerized. With every

step, Valka becomes increasingly flustered. She backs into an

ice wall, with nowhere to go, and Stoick just a few paces

away.

Stoick gently reaches a hand toward her face.

His words snuff her retort, rendering her speechless. She

softens despite herself, yielding her cheek to his palm. He

caresses her skin as a reluctant tear runs through his

fingers. He PULLS her into a KISS. She resists briefly, then

gives in. The surrounding dragons softly RETREAT in kind.

Hiccup gapes, warmed by the sight of his parents reunited.

EXT. ICE CHANNEL - DAY

(Scene 1750 - Eret's Turn)

Drago's massive flagship leads the flotilla, pulled along

forcefully by whatever's at the other end of the enormous

chain.

Drago WHACKS the chain with his bullhook, spurring it

forward.

ON DRAGO'S SHIP

Eret, Astrid, and the Gang are escorted to the stern,

surrounded by several of Drago's soldiers. Wrists bound.

Spear tips pressed into their backs.

They reach the gang plank. Eret peers overboard at the deep,

icy water below.

He turns to Astrid, meeting her glare with mock chivalry.

A pair of soldiers GRAB Astrid by the arms.

Eret WHIRLS around, ROUND-HOUSING both soldiers. They GO

DOWN, heavily.

He catches one of their spears with his bound hands and

slices his ropes free. They fall away as he catches the other

spear, twirling both in invitation.

One soldier runs to send up the alarm... while the last two

raise BLOW DART TUBES.

Eret SWIPES the first off of his legs, sending the dart into

the neck of the second.

As the downed soldiers SCRAMBLE to their feet, Fishlegs FALLS

OVER, CRUSHING them under his weight.

Eret CATCHES the falling tube from the second soldier and

BLOWS the dart at the fleeing third. The soldier DROPS,

unconscious -- just shy of the Captain's Quarters.

Ruffnut skips past Snotlout on her way to Eret. Snotlout

watches, crestfallen.

Eret avoids Ruffnut and turns to Astrid.

Astrid narrows her eyes, not knowing what to make of him. He

reclaims his sword and dagger from the unconscious soldier

who took them and cuts Tuffnut free.

EXT. DRAGO'S SHIP - MOMENTS LATER

Astrid slips under a tarp and cranks open a metal trap. She

peers between its massive iron teeth, discovering Meatlug

within, bound and chained to its base as bait.

Carefully cranking another trap, wincing at the sound. The

iron jaws of the trap open wider with every CLICK.

Ruffnut "stands guard," fixated on Eret's rippling biceps.

Eret squeezes between the cocked teeth, finding Stormfly

within, muzzled and chained. She looks up at Eret, calming

immediately. He pauses, then approaches slowly.

Eret carefully reaches out and strokes Stormfly's muzzle.

INT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - VALKA'S LIVING QUARTERS - LATE

(Scene 1850 - The Last Dance)

As Toothless and Cloudjumper hover for scraps, Stoick and

Valka prepare skewers of fish. She's overwhelmed, lost in her

thoughts, and covering it up poorly.

Valka offers a skittish half-smile and hands him a plate.

Stoick places his hands on Valka's shoulders. She flinches,

dropping the plate.

Cloudjumper steals the fish before Toothless can get to it.

Toothless whimpers, and as a sign of acceptance, Cloudjumper

regurgitates the fish so Toothless can have some.

Gobber takes a bite, gags, and dump the entire plate of fish

skewers into Grump's mouth like a trash can.

Stoick can see that Valka is overwhelmed. He lays a hand upon

Hiccup's shoulder, calming him.

Valka crosses the room to fill a flask with water, back

turned to the group, as Stoick eyes her sympathetically. He

decides on a different approach... and whistles a familiar

tune.

ON VALKA, as her eyes widen, stirred, recognizing the melody.

She turns away from Stoick, as the water overflows from the

flask.

Stoick approaches her delicately.

Hiccup watches him, curious, as Stoick FUMBLES THROUGH THE

FIRST VERSE of an old Viking courting song:

Valka avoids his gaze, wallowing in a mess of emotions.

Stoick scowls at him, then returns his attention to Valka.

Stoick pauses, setting Valka up for her part of the duet.

Stoick hangs eagerly, awaiting her words, but Valka closes

her eyes, rejecting his invitation. He lets out a heavy-

hearted sigh. But nostalgia gets the better of Valka. She

softly SINGS HER PART:

Stoick beams. She brushes past him, setting into the center

of the chamber and holding her forearm aloft in invitation.

Stoick crosses his forearm against hers, initiating a

beautiful dance to accompany the song.

The dance is full of charming missteps as Stoick and Valka

recreate a moment from their past, before Hiccup's wonder-

struck eyes.

Gobber can't help himself. He drags Hiccup onto his feet so

that he can join in the dancing, too.

Hiccup is amazed by the sight of his giddy parents, spinning

and laughing in each others' arms, reunited.

Gobber carries the last note...

Hiccup taps him.

Valka and Stoick slow to a stop, WINDED and LAUGHING.

She smiles sweetly. Stoick's eyes well with tears. He goes

down on one knee, proposing to her anew.

Toothless nudges Valka closer to Stoick. They laugh as Hiccup

joins them. Stoick throws his arm around him.

Valka, between tears and laughter, turns to Hiccup.

Gobber pops his head in.

They laugh.

Suddenly, Toothless and Cloudjumper suddenly perk up, sensing

something unheard. Hiccup notices.

Dragons SWARM past Valka's chamber, racing toward some

unknown disturbance.

They're answered by subsequent HEAVY BOOMS that reverberate

through the fortress.

EXT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - MOMENTS LATER

(Scene 1900 - Surprise Guests)

Valka rushes out to find...

DRAGO'S ARMADA in the lagoon below and his forces of

thousands now landed upon the beach.

They launch catapults and ballistas into the icy spires,

gaining entrance into the mountain's tunnels.

Hiccup, Stoick, and Gobber catch up to Valka.

Valka tries to hurry off, fuming. Stoick stops her.

She glances from Hiccup to Stoick.

He throws an arm around Hiccup.

ON THE BATTLEFIELD

VALKA'S DRAGONS SWOOP down to engage the attackers, picking

up soldiers and carrying them off while Drago stands in the

line of fire, unflinching.

The catapults continue to bring down the icy defenses of

dragon mountain. Drago's men pour into the tunnels.

Drago's armored DRAGON ARMY takes wing, clashing with Valka's

dragons in the skies.

Iron jaws are opened like bear traps, revealing screeching

`bait' dragons within. Valka's dragons swoop down to rescue

them, only to be SNAPPED UP in the fearsome jaws.

A second set of traps are cocked open, but instead of dragon

cries, ZIPPLEBACK GAS seeps out... followed by an EXPLOSION.

The TWINS rocket out of the trap, riding BARF and BELCH.

They're joined by Astrid and the rest of the GANG, bursting

out of the traps atop Meatlug and Hookfang.

Eret comes flying out last, WAILING aboard Stormfly. He

struggles to hold on, as she rejoins Astrid (riding Meatlug,

along with Fishlegs). He gives them a sheepish shrug.

She leaps onto Stormfly, steadying them.

Together they rocket across the sky...

And DIVE-BOMB the traps, setting them aflame. The yokes and

leather bindings restraining the bait dragons are

incinerated, freeing them to fly away, unharmed.

Projectiles are launched, one of which KNOCKS Ruffnut off her

dragon. She PLUMMETS past Eret toward the rocky shore below.

She suddenly grabbed by both arms before hitting the rocks.

RUFFNUT'S POV: of Snotlout on one side... and Fishlegs on the

other. SOFT and ROMANTICIZED as her epiphany dawns.

Above them, more catapults fire, bringing down massive spires

of ice, directly over Astrid and Eret.

It's about to crush them when... it's BLOWN TO PIECES by

Toothless' fireball. Hiccup, Stoick, and Gobber come bursting

through the flames on their dragons.

Hiccup and Toothless arc across the sky triumphantly and set

their sights on a downed dragon surrounded by soldiers.

Toothless BLASTS one of Drago's net launchers, knocking it

onto its side. Stoick then CHOPS the trigger line, FIRING the

catapult and NETTING the throng of soldiers, freeing the

dragon.

Drago's ARCHERS target Stoick with their arrows.

Gobber flies up from behind, KNOCKING the archers out with

Grump's tail. Gobber chuckles.

DRAGO hears Toothless' tell-tale BANSHEE scream and turns to

see him streaking across the sky.

Hiccup catches up to Astrid and Eret on Stormfly.

Astrid glares, both relieved and annoyed to see Hiccup.

Astrid shoots him a confused glare. He nods skyward. Astrid

and Eret look up to see...

VALKA, in full warrior garb, rising from the towering ice

spikes, atop Cloudjumper.

An earth-trembling roar follows as the Bewilderbeast rises

behind Valka.

ON DRAGO, gawking in awe as the great BEWILDERBEAST BLASTS

an epic explosion of ice upon the attackers.

Valka blasts overhead on Cloudjumper, commanding swarms of

dragons to swoop down and attack Drago's army. A swarm of

Zipplebacks set themselves aflame and roll like fiery wagon

wheels through the battlefield, scattering soldiers and

destroying war machines.

One of them gets CAUGHT under a Dragon Swatter, but Hiccup

and Toothless double-back for a rescue.

Toothless dive-bombs the swatter and DESTROYS it with a

plasma bolt, freeing the dragon.

BACK TO VALKA, on Cloudjumper as they pry Drago's armored

dragons off of the flailing wild ones. A net suddenly

envelops Cloudjumper. They CRASH heavily, but Valka cuts

herself free, sliding to a stop just paces away from Drago.

Drago cocks his bull hook, ready to strike, but Valka

deflects Drago's hit and attacks him.

He turns to the flagship and YELLS savagely, whirling his

bullhook overhead.

The heavy chains are released. The underwater creature, now

freed, breaks the surface in an epic cascade of seawater. It

rises toward the shoreline, revealing itself to be...

A SECOND BEWILDERBEAST -- bigger, meaner, and covered in

scars that indicate years of training and abuse. The chains

fall away from iron cuffs fastened to its massive tusks.

Valka GASPS.

Drago's challenger lumbers onto the beach, focused on Valka's

Bewilderbeast.

Valka attacks Drago with her bullhook, trying to stop his

commands, but Drago strikes back, knocking her forcefully

onto her back. He pins her as she struggles, removing her

mask and staff. He's about to finish her off, when WHAM! He's

knocked to the ground. He looks up, fuming, to see Stoick

helping Valka to her feet.

As Drago gathers his weapon and drops his heavy cloak,

circling Stoick, Drago's Bewilderbeast confronts Valka's in a

threat display.

Valka cuts the nets away and hops onto Cloudjumper, flying

off toward the Bewilderbeasts as they charge each other,

CLASHING TUSKS.

Drago LUNGES at Stoick, SWIPING his bullhook.

The two imposing warriors CLASH WEAPONS, SLASHING and LANDING

PUNCHES.

Valka flies between the Bewilderbeasts, waving her staff

commandingly, but to no effect.

BACK TO STOICK AND DRAGO

As Drago hooks and yanks the axe out of Stoick's hands.

Gobber flies by and HURLS his mace attachment.

Stoick catches it and lands a direct hit on Drago.

But, with a devastating SWIPE, DRAGO's Bewilderbeast takes

down Valka's, plunging in its tusks and burying its

opponent's lifeless body under an avalanche.

Hiccup and the others watch in horror as dragons everywhere

land and bow their heads in acknowledgement of the new alpha -

- DRAGO'S ALPHA.

Drago points his bullhook toward Valka and Cloudjumper.

Stoick whirls around, spotting Valka and Cloudjumper in the

alpha's sights.

Drago's Bewilderbeast INHALES... and BLASTS! Valka steers

Cloudjumper out of the way, but ice HITS his tail, causing

them to SPIRAL out of control toward the icy spires.

He LEAPS onto Skullcrusher, spurring him into the air.

Stoick tosses the mace back to Gobber in passing, who follows

brazenly, waving it aloft.

EXT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - CONTINUOUS

(Scene 2000 - Stoick's Sacrifice)

With his tail impaired, Cloudjumper struggles against a

throng of oncoming dragons. Valka is knocked off, but manages

to cling to her dragon's neck.

As she loses her grip and FALLS...

Stoick LEAPS from Skullcrusher and CATCHES Valka. He sinks

his axe into an icy column, and they slide to a safe landing.

Drago's Bewilderbeast presses closer, sniffing them out.

BACK TO HICCUP, spotting Drago on the battlefield, commanding

the Bewilderbeast to finish the job.

Hiccup lands Toothless a few paces from Drago and brazenly

removes his helmet. Drago eyes him, incredulous, then begins

to CHUCKLE.

Toothless snarls, ready to blast, but Hiccup calms him with a

hand gesture.

Drago smirks and turns away from Hiccup.

Drago LAUGHS mockingly, then removes his FALSE ARM, revealing

a stump at his shoulder. Hiccup is taken aback.

He reattaches the prosthesis, circling Hiccup menacingly.

Drago grabs his bullhook and re-approaches Hiccup. Toothless

readies himself.

Drago SHRIEKS madly, summoning the Bewilderbeast. Toothless

circles Hiccup, protectively.

ON THE BEWILDERBEAST, about to blast Stoick and Valka. It

hears Drago's distant wails, and approaches obediently.

Stoick follows its stare to the distant battlefield below. He

spots Hiccup and Toothless a few paces from Drago.

He rushes off. Valka follows, racing past Gobber as he

finally joins them, winded from having run up the mountain.

He hurries back down the mountain after them.

BACK TO DRAGO

jabbing his bullhook into the ground commandingly. The

Bewilderbeast flinches and stops, submissive.

Drago points to Toothless. The Bewilderbeast stares and

HISSES, forcing Toothless to cower under a hypnotic

ultrasonic broadcast. Toothless struggles against the alpha's

command, writhing and grinding his head against the ground.

Toothless fights the command, shaking his head in protest.

The Bewilderbeast insists, with a mesmerizing glare and a

low, throaty grumble... until Toothless finally succumbs to

its control. He raises his head, his stare vacant and

robotic, as his pupils turn to slits.

Drago then points to Hiccup. The Bewilderbeast responds,

HISSING again at Toothless.

Toothless slowly turns to face Hiccup. Advancing.

Bounding across the ice, pushing himself to make it to Hiccup

in time.

BACK ON HICCUP

Hiccup is backed against fallen ice, with Toothless advancing

mindlessly, and nowhere to run.

Toothless opens his yawning mouth. Gas seeps from his throat.

Stoick barrels through ice formations and over war machines,

racing against time.

Hiccup sees Stoick about to run into the fray.

Toothless BLASTS.

Stoick leaps in front of it, shoving Hiccup out of the way

and absorbing the blast in the process. He's thrown against

the ice with great impact.

ON VALKA, hearing the blast, horrified.

Drago glances back, seeing Stoick laying lifeless in the

aftermath, pleased by the sudden turn of events. He shuffles

off, satisfied.

Stunned, Hiccup comes to and sees Stoick in the rubble. He

rushes past the still-entranced Toothless, straining to

scatter the ice boulders on top of Stoick's body.

Valka arrives, winded and aghast.

She helps Hiccup to turn Stoick's body over. Valka presses

her ear to Stoick's heart, confirming his death with a mere

glance to Hiccup. He tears up, overwhelmed.

Gobber, Astrid, Eret, and the Gang arrive, slack-jawed.

Satisfied, the Bewilderbeast turns away, releasing Toothless

of the trance-like state. Toothless blinks, coming to and

confused. He approaches the group, sniffing Stoick's hand.

Hiccup SHOVES him.

Toothless recoils, innocently.

Toothless retreats like a scolded dog, ear plates back and

head hung low. Valka watches, broken-hearted, as Hiccup falls

upon Stoick, inconsolable.

On the battlefield, the alpha BELLOWS, calling all of the

dragons to gather. Meatlug, Stormfly, Hookfang and the others

all follow the command as the Gang calls after them.

Drago notices Toothless tumble down a snow-bank, once again

slit-eyed and entranced, but unable to fly to the alpha

without a rider. Drago pins him down, eyeing the saddle,

pedals, and prosthetic tail.

ON HICCUP and VALKA

In tears as Toothless rises into view, with Drago in the

saddle.

His soldiers cheer in the thousands.

Hiccup tries to go after Toothless, but Valka holds him back.

Drago JABS his bull hook and points toward the horizon. The

alpha BELLOWS, commanding an exodus as it leads the way.

Hiccup watches, powerless as all dragons TAKE WING and

follow.

EXT. DRAGON MOUNTAIN - LAGOON - DUSK

(Scene 2100 - Viking Funeral)

A KEEL grinds against the shoreline pebbles as a listing,

battered ship is pushed into the still iceberg-filled lagoon.

Bows and pitch-dipped arrows are gathered from the

battlefield. Gobber hands a set to Hiccup, meeting his eyes

with sympathetic glance.

Hiccup dips his arrowhead in a smoldering chunk of wreckage,

igniting the pitch that coats the tip.

He releases his arrow, which sails through the air and lands

on the deck of the ship, where Stoick is laid out on a pyre,

covered by a sail, his axe upon his chest.

The others follow Hiccup's lead. They DRAW BACK in unison and

LOOSE their arrows, filling the sky with crisscrossing,

flaming streaks. They arc over the lagoon and set the ship

alight.

ON HICCUP, fighting back emotion and losing the battle.

He eyes the engulfed ship.

Valka watches him, her heart breaking. She steps forward.

Hiccup lowers his eyes, but Valka lifts his chin.

Hiccup meets her bolstering stare. He turns to the ship and

watches it in silence, silhouetted in its glow.

EXT. ICE CHANNELS - MOMENTS LATER

(Scene 2200 - Hatchlings to the Rescue)

WHOOSH! WHOOSH! WHOOSH! JUVENILES BLUR past, like flying

raptors, ZIGZAGGING wildly.

Riding bareback, Hiccup & Co. HURTLE through the narrow ICE

CHANNELS -- created by massive splits in the iceberg shelves.

Fishlegs barrels into a snow bank, sending several chunks

right into Eret's face as rides inverted and HOLLERING.

Gobber follows up the rear clumsily, STRUGGLING for control.

He PULLS ALONGSIDE Hiccup and Valka.

A SHARP RIDGE RUSHES up at them. They're going to CRASH.

Hiccup ROUNDS one side of it, and Gobber flies down the other

side. They shout through gaps in the iceberg.

He's interrupted by another closure in the gaps of ice. They

blast out of the other side.

They SPLIT to avoid another peak and then reconvene, only to

find another icy outcropping directly in their path.

Gobber HITS it, with a THUD and a YELP.

EXT. BERK - NIGHT

(Scene 2450 - Hiccup Vs. Toothless)

Torches burn in their braziers as Berk slumbers... until the

Bewilderbeast approaches, STOMPING down on the monolithic

Viking statues that guard the harbor.

INT. GOTHI'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

The sound of destruction rouses a flock of Terrible Terrors

and Gothi, who was sleeping under the dragons. Their pupils

turn to slits, and heeding the ultrasonic call, they fly off.

Gothi shuffles onto her deck, confused, then GASPS at

horrifying sight.

INT. VIKING HUT - CONTINUOUS

A Gronckle lounges peacefully by the fire, as his Viking

owner lavishes him with scratches.

The Gronckle's eyes suddenly turn to slits and it, too, takes

wing, knocking over a chair and table as it heads for the

door.

It barrels out of the hut and into the night sky as the

Viking rushes to the doorway, spotting the same arresting

sight with a gasp.

EXT. GREAT HALL - CONTINUOUS

Vikings pour out of the Great Hall as all of Berk's dragons

fill the night sky and join the ranks of Drago's growing

DRAGON ARMY.

The Bewilderbeast rises out of the sea, bearing down on the

people of Berk as Drago hovers on Toothless, leading the

charge. The Vikings stare, aghast.

Waves of shock and whispers of "Stoick?" spread through the

crowd.

He thrusts his bull-hook, commanding the Bewilderbeast to

fire. The Vikings watch in horror as the Bewilderbeast opens

its yawning jaws and BLASTS.

EXT. SKIES/BERK - NIGHT

Dragon roars grow louder as Hiccup & Co. approach through

clouds, racing against time.

They collectively GASP at the sight of Drago's Bewilderbeast

having now covered most of the village in explosions of ice.

Berk's now commandeered dragons circle in a huddle behind

him, joining Valka's flock, and corralled by Drago's armored

dragons.

He brazenly aims his baby dragon toward the Bewilderbeast.

His baby dragon dives toward the sea instead.

The others shrug and follow. As they get closer, the

Bewilderbeast looms bigger and BIGGER.

Berk's Vikings in hiding notice Hiccup and the others as they

approach.

The Vikings CHEER.

ON DRAGO, surprised to see Hiccup and the others approaching.

With an irate HUFF, the Bewilderbeast focuses on Hiccup,

gaining ever closer to Toothless.

Suddenly, a SHEEP appears in its sight, rising and falling

out of view. The Bewilderbeast blinks, confused.

It looks down to see Eret catching the falling sheep and

reloading it into the game launcher, as Tuffnut cocks the

mechanism and Ruffnut pulls the trigger.

Snotlout tosses the black sheep to Tuffnut.

Exasperated, the alpha inhales, about to blast, when... HONK!

The game horn blares, breaking his concentration.

He turns, finding the horn unmanned. The Bewilderbeast then

returns his focus to the sheep launcher, until the BLACK

SHEEP LANDS on the his face, bouncing down his facial spines

and becoming lodged.

The Bewilderbeast shakes the black sheep off and prepares to

blast again.

HONK! The alpha whips around -- still no one at the horn.

ON FISHLEGS, giggling and hiding behind the game horn.

The Bewilderbeast finally lets loose the ice blast, covering

the entire horn in jagged spikes... as Fishlegs leaps from

the platform.

BACK TO HICCUP

as he reaches Drago, hovering directly in Toothless' sights.

Hiccup ignored him and focuses on Toothless' slitted pupils.

TOOTHLESS' POV: Hiccup appears as an unfamiliar red blur,

still firmly under the control of the Bewilderbeast.

Drago smugly sits back in the saddle, his arms open in

invitation.

Hiccup holds strong, maintaining eye contact with Toothless.

He reaches out to touch him.

Drago's amusement fades as Toothless stirs. His pupils

DILATE, then NARROW again.

Drago watches, amazed, as Toothless fights the control.

Hiccup holds the stare, tears in his eyes.

Bewilderbeast ROARS a forceful command.

Toothless' pupils jitter, then DILATE fully. He coos

sympathetically.

Toothless' eyes finally dilate fully and resolve on Hiccup's

familiar face.

Drago goes from astounded to alarmed. Drago STRIKES Toothless

with the bull hook in a vain attempt to regain control.

Toothless ROARS defiantly, snatches the bull hook in his

jaws, and PULLS... yanking Drago off of his back and sending

him both PLUMMETING to the sea.

But without a rider, Toothless drops out of the sky as well.

Hiccup leaps from the baby dragon, diving after him.

Drago breaks his fall, landing heavily upon the

Bewilderbeast's tusk...

As Hiccup tucks in his arms, trying to close the gap between

he and Toothless before they both make impact with the ocean.

Hiccup reaches Toothless. They pair up, mid-air, and

skyrocket past Drago as he hobbles to the top of the alpha's

head.

EXT. BERK - VILLAGE - MOMENTS LATER

(Scene 2500 - One True Alpha)

Hiccup looks back at Drago, now issuing commands from the top

of the Bewilderbeast's head.

Hiccup flies Toothless past a flag pole tears a strip of the

flag.

The Bewilderbeast BLASTS in their direction, barely missing

them as they disappear around the back of a mountain.

Toothless coos, allowing Hiccup to BLINDFOLD him with the

flag. Hiccup calms him with a touch.

Hiccup SPLAYS Toothless' mechanical tail. Toothless responds,

MATCHING the move with the natural half.

They PEEL around the other side of the mountain, heading

back toward Drago and Bewilderbeast, passing Astrid and the

cheering Vikings on the ground.

The Viking roar in support as Hiccup and Toothless race past.

Valka watches with pride as her son hurtles towards Drago and

the alpha.

The Bewilderbeast's HISS becomes a furious ROAR, but to no

avail. Hiccup clamps his hands over Toothless' ear plates,

muffling the alpha's commands.

The Bewilderbeast BLASTS!

Toothless suddenly PULLS UP, ARCING over Drago's head! Drago

LAUGHS, victorious, then pauses in shock.

DRAGO'S POV: as Toothless climbs inverted through the sky,

the blindfold falls free, revealing an EMPTY SADDLE.

Drago WHIRLS around, wide-eyed, to see...

HICCUP ZOOMING TOWARD HIM, his wing-suit deployed, and his

Dragon Blade trailing Zippleback gas. Drago SWIPES but misses

him. Hiccup clicks the lighter and ignites the gas, blasting

Drago off his Bewilderbeast with a SCREAM.

Drago PLUMMETS, BREAKING HIS FALL against the massive

dragon's spines and landing hard on the ground, his bullhook

landing just out of reach.

The Bewilderbeast WHIPS its tail, trying to SWAT down Hiccup.

Toothless pops open his dorsal blades, arcs skyward, and

rejoins Hiccup just before colliding with the alpha's tail.

Together again, they speed along the length of the thrashing

tail...

And shoot past the tip of the tail, narrowly making it!

They arc through the sky and LAND a few paces from Drago,

kicking up a trail of dust.

Battered and weary, Drago reaches for his bullhook. Hiccup

extends and fires up his Dragon Blade, hurling it like a

javelin, and sticking it in the ground between Drago and his

weapon, singeing his outstretched hand.

Toothless SNARLS a warning, ready to blast.

But the cloud of dust settles, revealing the Bewilderbeast,

rising behind Hiccup, ready to blast him instead.

Hiccup spins around, alarmed, as a RUSH of water THUNDERS up

the Bewilderbeast's throat.

It BLASTS, but Toothless leaps into the way, shielding Hiccup

beneath him. The freezing explosion envelops them both.

Drago laughs to himself as Valka lands her baby dragon and

rushes to the icy explosion, hammering away at it

desperately.

ON ASTRID and GOBBER, watching from a distance, horrified. As

Valka POUNDS at the ice, a GLOWS forms from deep within. She

realizes what is about to happen and backs away.

A BLAST thunders from inside the ice, SHATTERING it.

Toothless emerges from the debris, revealing Hiccup curled

safely under his wings.

Toothless is steaming, his black skin glowing blue with rage,

his split dorsal blades searing with blue heat, a glow

emanating from his flared nostrils.

He turns back to Hiccup, to check if he's unharmed, then

turns his full attention back to the Bewilderbeast. He leaps

out of the crater and lands upon an ice spire, roaring

ferociously.

The Bewilderbeast bellows back at this affront. Toothless

unleashes a salvo of plasma into the Bewilderbeast's face,

not letting up.

The Bewilderbeast ROARS at this act of insubordination.

Toothless fires back, time and again, fully in control.

The alpha thrashes his tusks through the ice, trying to smash

Toothless, but he deftly spring from spire to spire,

continuing his unrelenting attack.

In the midst of the mayhem, the horde of commandeered dragons

-- both Berk's and Valka's -- break free from the control to

witness Toothless' retaliation.

Toothless lands protectively by Hiccup and Valka, commanding

the dragons to shift sides. The follow, amassing behind

Toothless.

Seeing this, Drago panics and rushes toward the

Bewilderbeast.

Drago clambers up the Bewilderbeast's tusk, totally unhinged.

The Berkians swell in to show their unified support. Drago

fumes as Hiccup and Toothless fly up together onto an ice

spire.

He hammers the Bewilderbeast, spurring it into a charge.

Toothless calls over his shoulder, commanding the dragons to

ready themselves. He then BLASTS the Bewilderbeast, mid-

charge. Suddenly, Skullcrusher fires. Followed by another,

and another.

Hiccup looks around, amazed to see the flock of dragons

opening fire on Drago and his Bewilderbeast. They've started

a rebellion.

Drago is forced to hide from the fiery barrage by taking

cover in the tall spines of the giant's crown.

His prosthetic arm is blasted clean off by one of his own

armored dragons.

The Bewilderbeast rears back to cover them all in ice, but

Toothless lets loose a powerful shot. The Bewilderbeast's

head is KNOCKED backward by a blue-flame fireball.

As the smoke clears, one of its massive TUSKS FALLS to the

ground, sheared clean off. Drago glares at Toothless.

Toothless ROARS commandingly, calling an end to the fight.

Overwhelmed and overpowered, the Bewilderbeast yields to the

new alpha and heeds Toothless' command, retreating into the

sea in an explosive splash.

The Berkians CHEER in victory!

As the smoke clears, Hiccup and Toothless see nothing but

bubbles on the waves to mark their disappearance. No sign of

the Bewilderbeast... or Drago.

Toothless hops down from the spire, cooling off, as people

celebrate all around them.

All of the dragons -- Berk's, Valka's, even Drago's -- land

around Toothless. Cloudjumper bows to Toothless, starting a

wave of bows, acknowledging their new alpha.

Toothless looks around, surprised, then lets out a majestic

ROAR. The assembled dragons join in, roaring in tribute.

Toothless turns to Hiccup as he approaches.

Toothless GURGLES and licks Hiccup's face. Hiccups squeals,

trying to get away.

The crowd laughs. All around them, Berk's dragons reunite

with their Vikings.

Stormfly bounds into Astrid.

Grump lands ON TOP of Gobber, flattening him.

Relieved to the point of tears, Snotlout and Fishlegs race

towards the expectant Ruffnut...

... and then right PAST her to embrace their dragons.

Ruffnut GRUMBLES, dejected. Barf dips his head in to console

her.

She hugs him. Belch looms in for some affection, but Ruffnut

pushes him away...

And into Tuffnut who glowers back at her.

Hiccup smiles, taking in the happy reunions. Skullcrusher

approaches him, without an owner to reunite with. Hiccup pets

him, as Eret approaches.

Before Hiccup can respond, Skullcrusher nuzzles Eret

affectionately. Eret chuckles and gently strokes him.

Hiccup nods reassuringly. Eret looks at Skullcrusher, pausing

to consider it.

Valka walks up to her son, bursting with pride.

Toothless arrives, purring at Valka's touch as Astrid strides

toward Hiccup, beaming proudly.

She places her hand upon his chest, then quickly pokes the

dorsal fin button, popping it open. She GIGGLES.

He scoops Astrid close and pulls her into a kiss. Gobber

covers a gawking boy's eyes.

Gothi, the elder, taps Hiccup's shoulder, interrupting the

romantic moment. She gestures for Hiccup to kneel. He does

so, respectfully.

Using ash from a heap of burnt wreckage, Gothi traces a

Viking symbol onto Hiccup's forehead. She bows.

Hiccup stands, meeting Gobber's proud, smiling eyes. Gobber

turns to the silent crowd and throws up his arms.

The Berkians erupt with cheers and applause as Hiccup takes

in the moment, acknowledging the weight of responsibility now

upon him.

Toothless throws back his head and BLASTS in celebration,

spurring all other dragons to follow suit, lighting up the

sky in a spectacular display.

EXT. BERK VILLAGE - DAY

(Scene 2700 - A New Beginning)

A sheep grazes lazily on the grass as a Terrible Terror

struggles in vain to carry him off. Suddenly, both are

snatched up by a passing dragon.

IN THE AIR

Ruffnut and Tuffnut wrestle over the sheep atop Barf & Belch.

Ruffnut send the sheep flying toward Fishlegs. Snotlout nabs

it instead, blowing a kiss mockingly.

They swoop past a gathered crowd on the battered bleachers as

Snotlout dunks the sheep in his basket. Eret joins the race

atop Skullcrusher.

They fly past Hiccup and Toothless, who are steadily hoisting

a palette of timber and supplies onto a rooftop where workers

are rebuilding the damaged houses.

Hiccup then turns his attention to a massive statue of

Stoick, presently under construction. He grins with pride.

He looks to the horizon, scanning it from east to west to

ensure that no trouble is approaching.

Astrid and Stormfly buzz past him playfully, coaxing him to

join the game. He smiles.

Astrid soars past the blacksmith stall, waving to Valka and

Gobber as they remove the armor from Drago's freed battle

dragons.

Realizing that he's late, Gobber hurries over to the sheep

launcher and pulls the trigger, sending the black sheep

hurtling into the air.

Astrid and Stormfly close in on the black sheep, about to

snatch it out of the air, when suddenly, Hiccup and Toothless

dart past, beating them to it. Toothless looks back with a

gummy smile.

Toothless and Hiccup dive toward the line of baskets. As they

approach, Toothless bounces Hiccup into the air, allowing him

to dunk the black sheep into Astrid's basket. They reunite on

the other side. The crowd cheers!

Hiccup and Toothless land upon the chief's dais, joined by

Astrid, Stormfly, and the other dragon riders.

Toothless lets out a proud roar as Hiccup look out over Berk,

gleaming with pride.

