FADE IN:

UNDERWATER - DAY

Dramatically lit by sunlight filtering down from the surface.

A dim shape, massive, threatening, swims towards us from the

distance. Then it divides -- what was one is two, and the

shape becomes reality; two divers in Scuba gear swimming

side by side. They are wearing minimal rubber, considering

the cool New England waters: "Farmer John" wetsuits with cut-

off legs, assorted sport-diving paraphernalia, including an

expensive camera with a flash attachment.

One motions "Down there," the other signals "OK, I see it,"

and they dive deeper, into darker waters, where the shafts

of sunlight pour into the depths, broken up by seaweed and

floating vegetation into cathedral-like columns of

illumination.

SEA BOTTOM - DAY

The wreck of the working fisherman's boat "ORCA," formerly

under the command of the late Captain Quint, deceased these

four years.

Buried in the sand near it, still connected by rusting strands

of cable, the mangled remains of a shark cage, glimmering

with stainless steel highlights. A fitful flash of yellow

from under a mossy beard -- a battered barrel, similarly

tangled.

The divers, Bert and Ernie, appear. They're fascinated by

the find, and Bert, with the camera, snaps a few flash shots.

The rapid sequence of flashes signals the presence of a motor

drive camera.

ANOTHER POINT OF VIEW

Distant flashes, obscured by vegetation in the foreground.

SEA BOTTOM, THE ORCA

Ernie is exploring the abandoned cabin; doors open and shut,

moved by invisible currents stirred by his passage.

An occasional "Flash!" lights up the bottom as Bert continues

snapping away souvenir shots of this local landmark.

BERT'S POINT OF VIEW - CAMERA VIEWFINDER (PROCESS)

Ernie floats up out of a hatch, sees the camera, and strikes

a pose, clowning for the photographer's benefit. A big hand,

f.g., motions him up into clear water for a formal portrait.

He obliges. Now he floats in front of us, gently paddling

his flippers to maintain vertical stability. One flash.

Another. Then a large, dim movement in the b.g.

Something's out there, moving towards us.

Flash. It's bigger, bearing down like a train in a tunnel.

Flash! It's on us. Flash! Teeth? Blood? Flash! Blackness,

Death.

OCEAN BOTTOM, INSERT

The camera floats gently down and settles in the sand. A

dark red mist eddies by. A last weak flash.

EXT. OCEAN - SUNDOWN

Flash! An expensive cabin cruiser, the "Diver Working" flag

fluttering limply in the breeze, is riding alone at anchor.

Flash! A distant lighthouse beacon winks at us. The boat

rocks in the ceaseless swell.

On the stern, "Elizabeth T. - Newport, R.I." A long way from

home...

EXT. AMITY BEACH - DAY

A blue-and-white police jeep is bouncing over the sand. A

figure in civilian clothes driving alone on some urgent

mission. It's Martin Brody, Chief of Police on Amity.

The jeep slows to a stop, and he takes a flight of stairs

leading to a concrete patio two at a time. A classical trumpet

solo is playing in the background. Brody charges through a

door, then abruptly slows and starts moving warily through a

hotel interior: The Holidome, a three-story extravaganza of

a motel, where some sort of formal ceremony is already in

progress. A banner announces: "Grand Opening Ball -- Amity

Scholarship Fund Benefit." Brody crosses under a High School

band, arranged dance-band style on a balcony; the trumpet

player, Polo, is finishing his solo, the assembled crowd

applauds politely. Brody is taking his place with some

dignitaries on the dais, as the presiding authority, Amity

Mayor Larry Vaughn, begins speaking.

ANGLE ON THE DAIS

Seated on folding chairs, wearing their good suits, several

of Amity's Selectmen, Real Estate Developer Len Peterson,

and Ellen Brody, very chic. Brody slips into the vacant chair

next to her. The following is conducted in urgent whispers,

sotto voce, while Vaughn drones on.

Brody settles into polite attentiveness, acknowledging a

wave from Hendricks, a politely bland young town cop in his

idea of civilian finery. Hendricks is fussing with the banner

on an attractive young lady in a bathing suit...

ANGLE ON VAUGHN

Tina (the girl in the bathing suit) escapes Hendricks'

attentions, and teeters on high heels towards the ribbon,

while Phil Fogarty, the local photographer, snaps away.

ANGLE ON THE BAND

Paul Lohman ("Polo" to his friends) is exchanging whispers

with Lucy, a flute player nearby.

Lucy nods, Polo shrugs, and turns to Jane, a girl nearby.

She nods happily, they whisper together, while we:

ANGLE ON DAIS

Martin and Ellen have been joined by their youngest son,

Sean.

Applause from the crowd, Len takes a bow.

ANGLE ON TINA

as she reaches out with the scissors. Something catches her

eye, and she winks at her boyfriend, Ed Marchand, smirking

in the crowd. He winks back, and makes "Cut it" motions with

his fingers.

ANGLE ON THE CEREMONY

Tina cuts the ribbon, and Tom Andrews, a local diver, pushes

a decorated float out into the pool; sparklers sputter,

balloons drop from the ceiling.

The band swings into "Downtown," and the crowd gets up to

dance, to eat, and to break into small groups to talk.

INT. HOLIDOME - LATER

Ellen is dragging Brody over to where Len Peterson and Larry

Vaughn, the mayor, are in conversation. They pass vignettes:

Tina and Ed, Tom Andrews and Jane, Marge, other interesting

Amity townspeople.

He beckons over their heads to Larry Vaughn, Jr., a young

man uncomfortable in his correct tie and blazer. They exchange

perfunctory greetings.

He puts his arm around her, a little too familiarly for

Brody's liking.

And she hands Sean off to Brody, leaving him with an over-

active 10 year old, while she's gone.

Sean nods and runs off, happy to have a mission.

ANGLE ON MICHAEL BRODY - NEAR THE BAND

He is talking to Brooke Peters, a mop-maned teen-ager with a

pleasant face.

Timmy Weldon, a grade behind, lurks nearby. A plumpish, curly-

haired buddy, Andy Nicholas, is enjoying a cup of punch.

Sean finds them, and bursts into their group.

He tugs at Mike's sleeve; Mike allows himself to be dragged

off.

Andy and Brooke are left standing together, Tim moves in.

On her shrug, as she turns to Andy:

INT./EXT. HOLIDOME PATIO/TERRACE - NIGHT

It's later; night has fallen, the band is playing its version

of "When I Fall in Love." Many teen-agers are dancing out on

the patio, some adults are dancing inside, the buffet is

ravaged, Timmy is watching Brooke, who's dancing with Polo.

Douglas Fetterman ("Doug") joins him, after asking Marge for

a dance and striking out.

Bob Burnside, a tall pal of Larry Vaughn Jr.'s, turns up by

their side.

He exits, on the prowl.

ANGLE ON BRODY AND ELLEN

And sure enough, they are -- the band has turned to a Fifties

slow-dance standard: "I Wish You Love." Peterson approaches.

They slowly fox trot out onto the terrace. Both of them

nodding greetings to townspeople and kids -- everyone knows

the chief.

The music and the summer moon are working their magic.

He dips with her; they look up and notice Sean, sound asleep

on a bench.

He crosses to the sleepy Sean and hoists him with a grunt.

Sean murmurs sleepily and hugs his dad. Mike, dancing with

Marge, waves good-bye. The Brodys start to leave, passing a

bucket with a bottle of champagne still in it. They exchange

a look, nod agreement, and Brody boosts the bottle, sneaking

it out of the building while Ellen giggles.

INT. BRODY BEDROOM - DAY

Brody and Ellen are snuggling under the covers while early

morning light streams under the blinds. It's The Morning

After, and the clothes from the night before are scattered

all over the room. Brody rolls against Ellen, spoon-fashion,

morning-horny.

They start to move a little, then turn face to face. Outside

their door, the sounds of little feet; Sean padding

downstairs.

Their bodies move under the blankets. There's a crash from

the kitchen. They stop for a beat. As they resume, little

feet return.

His feet paddle off. Brody and Ellen start to slide together,

passion resumes.

Bigger feet go downstairs; Michael's up. The Brodys kiss,

trying to ignore the sounds of spirited discussion between

brothers over who's responsible for spilled milk. Then the

sound of a car pulling into the driveway, and a horn beep.

They try to kiss again, there's a door slam downstairs, and

talk between the boys and Mrs. Silvera. The Brodys look at

each other and break up laughing at the morning, and

themselves.

ANGLE ON THE BED

As Ellen and Brody, with the practice of 18 years of marriage,

swing back-to-back, and put their feet on the floor, each on

their side of the bed, still chuckling, up for the day.

EXT. AMITY STREET   DAY

The police jeep is driving through the picturesque streets,

Brody behind the wheel, Ellen and Sean passengers. It slows

near the foot of the street, dockside, where a real estate

office marked "Amity Shores Development, Leonard Peterson,

Pres." sits. Peterson's big Cadillac is parked illegally at

the curb. It has the Amity Shores logo on its side.

Brody is out of the car, his pad in his hand.

Peterson, in shirt-sleeves and a tie, hustles out of the

office

Ellen kisses Brody, and starts in for her day's work.

Peterson shrugs and goes inside his office. Brody's attention

is drawn by some noise by the dock.

EXT. DOCKSIDE, AMITY - DAY

Hendricks and an old codger, Red, are working on Amity's

newest bit of police equipment; a blue power launch for

patrolling local waters. The boat is Hendricks' personal

pride and joy.

As Red complies, Hendricks spots his boss.

There's a hoot from a passing boat horn. Sean waves happily.

ANGLE ON THE BOAT

It has slowed to a halt in front of the police berth; it's a

scruffy working fisherman, back from the banks with a full

load. The Skipper hails Brody.

Hendricks nods, and starts the engine importantly.

While Red grumbles, Brody and Sean are walking up to the

street.

Michael and some teen-agers are headed down to the dock.

ANGLE ON BRODY AND THE KIDS

It's Mike, Polo, Patrick, Lucy, Brooke, Ed and Tina.

Mike nods.

He gets into his jeep, leaving Sean with the teen-agers.

The others ad lib appropriate greetings/good-byes, as Brody

drives off in his jeep.

EXT. DOCKSIDE - DAY

The Kids busy themselves with their boats while Sean hovers

around Mike, who's not happy at baby-sitting his kid brother.

Tina's in her boat, "Tina's Joy," a neat sloop. Mike is going

over his "Green Machine," a sleek catamaran.

Before Sean can protest further, Mike spots his crew: Andy

Nicholas, a round-faced, frizzy-haired pal, wearing a bathing

suit, and carrying some scuba gear from an early-morning

diving class. Marge and Denise, two other divers, are with

him, with their gear. They ad-lib "good-byes."

Sean mopes away while Andy and Mike get their boat ready for

sea.

FOLLOW SEAN OFF THE DOCK

Up on the street, where a pretty girl with a sexy face and a

provocative post-pubescent walk is asking him directions.

He points down at the dock. The Girl, Jackie Peters, waves

at her cousin, Brooke.

One of the boats has a portable radio going. It's playing

some medium-hot salsa. Jackie does a couple of dance steps

on her way down the dock.

CLOSE ON ANDY AND MIKE

As the four teen-agers come together in a tight quartet, the

music rocks up and we:

EXT. HARBOR - DAY

Later in the day, sailboats with bright colored sails and

ornately painted hulls tack back and forth. Lots of chatter

between boats, horseplay, splashing, and general good times.

It's cruising, on water.

EXT. HARBOR, ABOARD MIKE'S BOAT - DAY

with Mike, Andy, Jackie and Brooke.

He sheets in, heeling the boat over in the stiff breeze.

Jackie screams in excitement; for a city girl, this is more

fun than a roller coaster.

ANGLE ON A RED CATAMARAN, "SIZZLER"

overtaking Mike's boat. It's piloted by Larry Vaughn, Jr.,

the Mayor's Son; with him is his good friend, Bob Burnside.

It's immediately a race between the red boat -- "Sizzler,"

and Mike's "Green Machine." The Kids ad-lib -- "Faster,"

"Lookout," "Gybe, gybe."

Donny and Denise's boat cuts in, stealing the Sizzler's air.

ANGLE ON THE SIZZLER AND FELIX

Denise hops nimbly from one boat to the other as Danny sails

tight as a tick to the red cat.

QUICK CUTS: FUN AT SEA

The sailboats cutting up, cruising the harbor, the local

teen-agers partying with each other:

--  Patrick and Lucy's Sol Cat, flying its hull.

--  Susie's Laser heeled 'way over' in a stiff breeze.

--  Polo and a pretty girl in his sloop, "Sea Witch."

--  Timmy Weldon and Doug Fetterman playing catch-up in their

respective boats, the Doughdish and the Inflatable.

--  Marge in her Lightening, sailing close to Ed and Tina in

Tina's Joy.

UNDERWATER NEAR THE ORCA - DAY

Silent, green-blue depths. A diver, Crosby, working the

bottom, running a search pattern. Another diver, Tom Andrews,

running close. They signal to each other, and make another

pass.

Follow Tom Andrews as he skims the bottom, near the wreck of

the Orca, half-buried in the silt. A diver's line runs up

and

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

Bobbing on the surface are three boats: the Amity Police

launch, the deserted Elizabeth T., from Newport, flying a

diver's flag, and the ScubaVue, a local diveboat operated by

Tom Andrews and his partner, Crosby; it has "Amity Aqua

Sports" lettered on it somewhere. Hendricks and Red are on

the deck of the police boat, peering at the cruiser.

A sudden eruption in the water nearby startles them -- it's

Andrews, surfacing, holding up the underwater flash camera.

Crosby pops up next to him, shows empty hands.

The divers head for their boat, Hendricks fires up his engine,

and we:

INT. BRODY'S OFFICE - DAY

Brody is trying to reason with an indignant fat man.

Brody is caught in the open.

Hendricks has entered, carrying the camera brought up from

the bottom by the divers.

They go into Brody's inner office; the uproar continues behind

the door, but it's calm in here.

Hendricks puts the camera in an informal "Lost & Found" box

sitting in the office. Brody makes the mistake of opening

the door, revealing the White-Haired Man.

As Brody turns to deal with the mess, we:

UNDERWATER

Looking up at the surface, where a hull floats in silhouette

against the daylight. There's a commotion, and a water ski

drops into view. Then another one. Pale legs churn the water.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

Off Amity Beach, a bilious green lap-straked boat is bobbing

in the water, the engine idling. Two girls are fooling around;

the one in the water is Terry, the one driving the boat is

Diane.

She fumbles with her skis.

Diane goes to the controls, and puts the engine into gear,

starting forward. Terry waves "okay," Diane opens up the

throttle, the boat surges forward, pulling Terry upright.

A wake boils out from under her skis.

ANGLE ON THE BEACH

Ed and Tina are camped on a blanket, necking in the shelter

of the dunes. There's a portable radio, a cooler with some

beer, and some sandwiches -- a perfect afternoon alone. Above

the dune, behind them lies the ocean, where the girls' ski

boat can be seen, raising a big wake. Tina disengages, and

sits up, brushing sand out of her hair.

Tina stands, and looks out to the sea, where the boat is

towing Terry on the water.

Ed grunts non-comittally. Tina takes a beer from the cooler,

and goes up on the dune to watch Terry and Diane. She waves

to them, and to someone down the beach.

EXT. BEACH HOUSE - DAY

An old lady, Grace Witherspoon, is rocking on her porch,

also enjoying the view of young people enjoying themselves.

She acknowledges Tina's distant wave, and turns her attention

back to the skiers.

ANGLE ON THE SKIERS

having a wonderful time. Terry is good, criss-crossing the

wake, showing off.

CLOSE ON TERRY

rushing through the water, waving, stunting.

She waves at Diane, who leans over the controls, to coax

more speed out of the old engine.

UNDERWATER

following the skis effortlessly, closing in on the turbulent

wake.

ON THE SURFACE

Terry whipping along; a fin raises near her. She glances at

it, waves, thinking it's a porpoise.

The fin slides low in the water, heading towards her. She

puts the rope around her waist, leaving both hands free.

UNDERWATER

Closing in on the wake, crossing it.

TERRY - ON THE SURFACE

The fin cuts across her path. Too late to maneuver, Terry

hits the looming gray back of the Shark. The skis bump, leave

the water, Terry takes a spectacular spill. The rope around

her waist tows her helpless through the water, gagging her,

preventing her from shouting. She flounders as Diane slows

the boat to see what's happened.

ANGLE ON THE BOAT

turning back to see if her friend hit a submerged log or

hurt herself.

She still doesn't realize the gravity of the situation --

she hasn't seen the fin.

ANGLE ON TERRY

hysterical, pulling herself hand-over-hand up the rope, trying

to get to the boat.

UNDERWATER

Closing in on the thrashing figure.

TERRY

Screaming, as the Shark rises from the deep and takes her.

Suddenly she's gone, a swirl of pink froth marking the water

where she went under.

IN THE BOAT - DIANE

Looking around for her friend, suddenly panicky. She pulls

the rope hard, and tumbles backward as it comes up with

nothing on it -- just a cleanly bitten end.

Then the Shark appears, blood on its mouth, lunging up and

butting the stern, jarring the engine loose. Fuel spills

from a ruptured line.

She throws things at the Shark, which slides back under the

water.

DISTANT ANGLE ON THE BOAT - FROM THE BEACH

Diane can be seen flailing in the boat, very distant screams

floating across the water; at this range they sound like the

normal shrieks of teen-age girls having fun....

ANGLE ON THE BOAT - CLOSE

as the Shark hits from a fresh angle, this time taking a

chunk out of the boat, biting down with powerful jaws. Diane

hurls seat-cushions, oars, anything she can lay hands on.

She fumbles desperately in a compartment, produces a flare

pistol. She cocks it and fires point-blank at the shark.

CLOSE ON THE SHARK

The flare hits, wet fuel glistening on the water and skin of

the Shark explodes in a sheet of flame.

DIANE

A last flash before the gasoline explodes.

A sheet of fire, she's in the middle, screaming, aflame, the

Shark forgotten. She falls into the water as the ruined boat

overturns and there's an oily explosion.

EXT. BEACH - DAY - ED AND TINA

Ed and Tina look up as they hear the distant "crump" of the

boat blowing up.

EXT. PORCH - DAY

Mrs. Witherspoon looks up, startled by the sudden tragedy.

She gets up to go to the phone, indoors, and we:

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - AMITY POLICE BOAT

The launch is anchored at the site of the explosion, offshore.

Red is fishing up bits of flotsam with a boathook. Hendricks

is on the radio, talking to the shore.

BRODY ON SHORE

He's on the porch of tile Witherspoon house, using his

portable walkie-talkie. Mrs. Witherspoon is waiting in the

b.g.

Nearby, we can see a sign: "BURIED CABLE: Call New England

Light and Power Before Digging." The cable itself surfaces

in a chain-link fenced enclosure, and climbs a power pole

for distribution to the island. Ed and Tina are also there,

having given statements.

Brody turns to Ed and Tina, and takes out his notebook.

BRODY

Brody stares out at the quiet sea -- what's lurking under

that calm surface?

Brody's still looking past them, towards the ocean.

As he gazes at the ocean, we hear the sound of a distant

siren, and

EXT. AMITY - DAY

An ambulance, siren wailing and red light flashing, drives

on its melancholy way through the picturesque town.

ABROAD THE POLICE BOAT - NIGHT

Hendricks has the winch in operation, the cable in his hand,

with big grappling hooks attached. The boat is lit by its

powerful worklights. Hendricks heaves them out, watches as

the current takes them, then puts the winch in gear, hauling

back.

INSERT - THE WINCH CABLE

It goes taut with a sudden strain.

ANGLE ON HENDRICKS

He sees it, too.

Red moves to the winch, watching warily as it slows to a

near stall with the weight.

There's a strain on the cable -- it's pulling the stern of

the boat down as it struggles with the weight.

ANGLE ON THE WATER

lit by the harsh worklights on the deck of the launch. The

cable from the winch is taut, pulling something up from the

black depths. What? The coupling appears, then the hook, and

an oily cable.

He hits the release on the winch, and the cable whines as it

spins out and settles back on the bottom. Red jiggles the

line, trying to free it up.

INT. BRODY KITCHEN - DAY

The next morning, the Brody family is downstairs, each getting

his own special breakfast. Mike gets cereal for himself and

Sean, Ellen is cracking some soft-boiled eggs, Brody is

drinking coffee and smoking.

Ellen passes them on the way to the den to look for it.

Mrs. Silvera enters from the service porch.

He follows Ellen into the den.

INT. DEN - DAY

Ellen is rummaging around the papers on the end table, looking

for her book.

She heads out the door for the office. Mike approaches.

ANGLE ON MIKE AND BRODY

INT. KITCHEN

Mike passes through on his way out, nodding to Mrs. Silvera

who acknowledges his passage.  Brody is close on his heels.

The back door slams behind him.

Sean nods, resigning himself to the inevitable.

Mrs. Silvera nods, and pours Sean a glass of milk. Brody

sighs, and heads out the door. Sean calls after him.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY

Sitting snug and ship-shape on Mike's Green Machine are Mike,

Andy, Brooke, and Jackie. They are heeled over in a brisk

wind, making good headway; sailing nearby in the b.g. are

Patrick and Lucy and Donny and Denise, in their boats.

She opens her big floppy bag, revealing the top half of a

jug of Mountain Red. Brooke slides over to her.

ANGLE ON BROOKE AND JACKIE

She indicates Andy, who pretends great indifference.

Andy does about a triple take before he regains his cool.

Mike concentrates on his sailing, Jackie grins an impish,

vixen grin, Brooke shrugs.

EXT. LIGHTHOUSE - DAY

spectacular view from the top of the old lighthouse, showing

ocean, sandy beach, some of the Kids' catamarans pulled up

on the sand, other pleasure boats cruising in the b.g.

Ed and Tina are running down the stairs, laughing.

ANGLE ON THE SAND

where Andy, Mike, Jackie, and Brooke are camped around a

blanket listening to a portable radio. Ed and Tina run by.

There's a little round of giggling.

ANGLE ON ED & TINA

running towards a dune and over it.

ANGLE ON MASSIVE SHAPE

in f.g., covered with birds. Ed and Tina appear over the

crest of a dune, and the frame explodes in a flurry of

seagulls, suddenly disturbed. The whir and drumbeat of wings,

and the shrieking of the gulls is a jarring shock.

CLOSEUP - TINA

reacting.

HER POINT OF VIEW

The huge hulk of a beached, decomposing dead whale, a few

birds still pecking at scraps of blubber and entrails. Big

festering red holes mark its sides.

LONG SHOT -  SAND AND WHALE

From the top of the lighthouse, we can see a group of

interested spectators, clustered around the whale like ants

at a picnic. A few more boats are beached and riding at anchor

just off the shore, including the Amity police boat.

Three Ants are walking towards the crowd, one of them

gesturing.

ANGLE ON BRODY, HENDRICKS AND A WOMAN

She's Lureen Elkins, a marine biologist from the Oceanographic

Institute, and she's skeptical. Brody is the ant whose

antennae were waving in the long shot.

His arms indicate big.

He moves forward to clear the crowd. Some kids are poking

the massive hulk with sticks. A tourist couple is snapping

away with a Polaroid SX-70. The whole mess stinks, too.

The crowd edges back, giving way to Brody and Elkins.

ANGLE ON THE WHALE

Brody is holding a handkerchief to his nose as he approaches

the dead thing, indicating a huge open wound on the side.

She produces a tape measure and gives one end to Brody.

Elkins is measuring the length of the creature. She calls

off numbers to Hendricks, who is officiously writing it all

down, repeating numbers as he hears them.

Brody pitches his voice low, so that the crowd won't listen.

He turns to join the kids as they slip through the crowd to

return to their blanket, ad-libbing good-byes.

They hang around, waiting for him. Elkins has reclaimed

Brody's attention.

He fumbles for the correct Latin.

ANGLE ON BRODY AND MIKE

As Elkins examines the whale, calling her observations to

Hendricks.

The Kids have moved a little closer to hear what's going on

between father and son.

Elkins crosses to Brody.

Brody turns on him.  This at least, is something he can do

something about.

INT. AMITY TOWN HALL - DAY

Vaughn and Brody enter, walking through the spare, empty

town meeting hall, towards the conference table. They are

alone.

Vaughn stares at him, then unlocks the door to his private

office -- "Mayor" -- and leads Brody in.

INT. VAUGHN'S OFFICE - DAY

Small, expensively furnished in antiques, with a few symbols

of Amity boosterism cluttering one wall: a photo of the beach,

featuring a shark tower; an architect's rendering of the new

Holiday Inn, some charts and graphs showing upward progress,

a few stills of businessmen's luncheons, plaques, awards,

etc.

Brody's overstated his case, and he realizes it.

The two men study each other for a long moment. Then,

He holds the door for Brody, who walks out as Vaughn lags

behind, locking up his sanctum.

EXT. AMITY BEACH ROAD - DAY (DUSK)

Brody is alone in the jeep, headed for the safety of home

and family. He drives past the town's billboard: it's covered

with an architect's rendering of the Amity Holiday Inn. The

sign reads: "WHEN IN AMITY, ENJOY THE HOLIDAY INN."

Plastered across it is an added streamer: "NOW OPEN." Barely

visible underneath are older notices: "UNDER CONSTRUCTION,"

and "OPENING IN JUNE."

As Brody passes the sign, he impulsively swings off the main

road and heads down towards the beach.

EXT. BEACH - DUSK

Brody is on restless patrol, checking the water's edge as he

continues on home. As he drives along, he sees: a clambake;

some teen-agers in a group, necking and dancing; and a few

solitary surfcasters and fishermen.

The beach is deserted, the sun is setting, and Brody and his

jeep have the sand to themselves. It's then that he sees

something:

BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW

A big bow section of a ruined, burnt boat is bobbing in the

surf just off the beach ahead. It's a piece of the

waterskiers' boat; Brody heads towards it.

ANGLE ON THE SURF

As Brody slows his jeep just short of the water, and gets

out to look at the flotsam. His shoes get wet. He backs up

onto dry sand, then tries to edge closer to examine this

object.

It bobs up and down in the surf; Brody makes "Get in here"

motions. The junk resists.

No response. He takes off his shoes and socks, and rolls up

his trouser legs. A silly sight. He wades into the water

after it.

It eludes him, and he flounders after it. A big wave breaks

across his crotch.

He's almost there, it's just beyond his reach, he's got it,

he's lost it, he has it again, it's slippery...

Then, he's got it ---

CLOSE ON BRODY IN THE WATER

As he grabs the ruined wood, and pulls it towards him.

Suddenly, the mass of wreckage breaks apart, and something

lunges out of the mess and into Brody.

SHOCK CUT CLOSEUP - "THE THING"

Brody is suddenly pinned under a soggy charred horror; the

gory remains of Diane, burnt beyond recognition,: flesh peeled

away, discolored, charred, ruined by days in salt water. He

screams, and scrabbles in the wet sand, trying to get out of

the dreadful clutches of the half-human thing he's dredged

from the water.

ANGLE ON BRODY

Extricating himself, puking, retching, splashing water on

his face, washing his hands frantically, just behind him,

The Thing lying on the sand, a gruesome joke played by the

sea.

INT. BRODY'S OFFICE - NIGHT - EXTREME CLOSEUP - CYANIDE

BOTTLE

Macro close on a pharmaceutical bottle of Sodium Cyanide,

from which a syringe is withdrawing a healthy dose. Follow

the syringe and reveal Brody, working at his desk in the

deserted office. He is injecting the deadly chemical into

some jacketed .38 hollow-point ammunition; a dozen cartridges

are lined up in neat array, he is filling the last of them,

sealing the points with wax from a burning red candle. The

radio scanner is monitoring the local police band: routine

reports faintly in the b.g. -- a slow night in pre-season

Amity.

ANGLE ON BRODY

As a sound at the door makes him look up. He hides the odd

gear as Hendricks enters, starched and crisp in his uniform.

There's an awkward pause. Brody sees the box with the divers'

stuff sitting where it was left earlier.

Hendricks' guilty look confirms he didn't.

The Deputy rummages in the locker, happy to be on the trail.

And he runs for the door, the speed-loaders with the Cyanide

bullets safely in his pocket.

Brody pats his pockets to make sure the speed-loaders are

safe inside, then exits. As Hendricks watches him go,

EXT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT

Brody's jeep pulls up, and he gets out, beat. He is slouching

towards the door when he hears the phone ring inside. He

perks up, and starts to move faster.

INT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT

Ellen is on the phone in the den as Brody enters the house.

The Kids are on the floor in front of the TV, playing an

electronic video game that pings and beeps softly under the

following.

He starts upstairs, casually concealing the towel-wrapped

package of gun and ammunition.

He goes upstairs, Ellen waits a few beats, then follows him.

INT. BRODY HOUSE - UPSTAIRS - NIGHT

Brody comes up the stairs and goes into the bedroom, where

he carefully puts the gun in the bed table. Ellen finds him.

They both know what that means -- the morgue. Brody goes

into the bathroom and starts scrubbing his hands compulsively.

INT. BRODY HOUSE - BATHROOM AND HALLWAY - NIGHT

Ellen follows Brody, watches as he washes under too-hot water.

Mike comes up the stairs, and is starting into his room when

Brody spots him; Sean is just behind him.

Mike shrugs and crosses to his father; Sean whizzes past on

into his room.

He expects something: this is a formal audience with the

Head of The House.

We see Sean's door opening as he peeps into the hall to see

what the fuss is about.

ANGLE ON SEAN'S DOOR

It opens a few inches, he looks out at the grownups and his

brother, decides he wants no part of this, and quietly closes

the door.

ANGLE ON THE HALLWAY

Mike silently storms into his room, not-so-silently slamming

the door as he exits. From inside the room, loud rock music

muffled behind the door -- an expression of teen-age

rebellion.

The music lowers its volume. Brody turns to go into the

bedroom, to take his shoes off, to go to bed...

Ellen gets up, and quietly closes the door. The upstairs

hallway is empty, the doors closed. The Brody household

compartmented and closed for the night.

EXT. AMITY BEACH - DAY

The familiar striped cabanas flank the white sands; there's

a crowd of midweek seasonal tourists and locals oblivious to

the tall steel tower that dominates the beach.

A classy van outfitted for passengers pulls into the parking

area, followed by Vaughn's Cadillac; the parking attendant

waves them into a preferential area, where they disembark:

Vaughn, Peterson, Ellen, and some more prospects, including

a woman named Bryant and her daughter, Renee.

He scoops up a handful of the fine powder. Ellen directs the

attention of the photographers.

Ellen nods, preoccupied. Vaughn strolls away, headed in the

direction of the cabanas. Mary Nichols, a local Selectwoman,

emerges from behind the counter of one of the concessions.

Michael Brody, dressed in township workman's coveralls, is

repainting some flaking woodwork. Sean is happily mixing

paint. Vaughn joins them.

He continues his chore, without enthusiasm.

He points at the tower.

He crosses briskly to where Peterson is finishing.

Peterson excuses himself and joins the Mayor.

BRODY IN THE TOWER

sweeping the water with binoculars, restless eyes trying to

scan everything, a grim watchman high over the heads of the

unseeing crowd.

ON THE WATER

Larry Vaughn, Jr. comes skimming in close to the surf. Bob

is handling the sheets, Larry is giving young Jackie sailing

lessons -- at the moment he's showing her how the tiller

works.  He's on her like glue.

Bob does, Larry trims the main, and the hull lifts.

She snuggles in Larry's arms. He waves to someone.

Jackie waves without seeing.

ON THE BEACH

Vaughn waves back, preoccupied. Near him, Mike Brody looks

up, his face grim, jealous, and now a little nuts. He splashes

paint onto the wood with angry abandon.

Mrs. Bryant approaches them, tugging her daughter.

At the mention of lunch, the prospects, all hungry, begin

flocking back into the van. Peterson herds them along.

BRODY IN THE TOWER

still scanning. His body suddenly tenses. There's something

out there. He mashes his binoculars to his eyes, trying to

get a better look.

HIS POINT OF VIEW (PROCESS)

Through the binoculars, something big and black, moving under

the buoys and into the swimming area.

BRODY AGAIN

He can't believe it. But looking past him, we can see it

with the unaided eye: a seething dark mass, moving through

the water towards the unprotected bathers.

No one can hear him. A few little faces look up, unable to

catch what he's saying. He starts climbing down the ladder

shouting.

ANGLE ON PETERSON, VAUGHN, AND NICHOLS

reacting.

ELLEN, MIKE, AND SEAN

Looking up, startled at Brody's sudden panic.

THE WATER

The dark mass almost on top of the swimmers, who are starting

to look around. Most of them are oblivious to what's happening

on shore.

FOLLOW BRODY

as his feet hit the sand and he starts running for the water,

fumbling for his gun and the speed-loader with the cyanide

bullets. He is bumping into people, knocking little kids

over, stepping on blankets and umbrellas, a madman.

VAUGHN

Running too, half-stumbling, half-believing, remembering...

ELLEN

Moving after her husband, while Mike steadies Sean, holding

the impulsive kid back.

ANGLE ON BRODY AGAIN

The gun is out now, he's trying draw a bead on the shape in

the water; chest heaving, he tries to steady his shaky grip.

People see the gun and scream, throwing themselves flat on

the sand, running, some of them going into the water.

He fires. Again. Bullets ricochet off the water, howling

towards the horizon. Real panic now. Four more shots.

Reloading, ejected rounds falling bright into the sand, Brody

on his knees, fumbling with bullets.

ANGLE ON A LIFEGUARD

standing on his platform, shocked, watching the Chief of

Police fumbling with his gun.

ANGLE ON THE WATER

It is bluefish -- a tight mass of them, churning up the water

in a dark, dense group. The swimmers look around, confused

by the shots and excitement.

Laughter defuses the tension in the water; bathers move

around, some getting closer to see the fish, others leaving

the water to join friends and families on the sand.

ANGLE ON THE BEACH

where Brody is now standing, panting, coming down as a crowd

collects at a safe distance around him: Ellen emerges from a

group that includes Vaughn, Peterson, and Nichols.

Curious crowd murmurs as they watch this lunacy. Brody

realizes he's fired his weapon, that spent shells litter the

sand at his feet.

Ellen joins him.

Brody drops to his knees, fumbling for the cyanide bullets

in his gun, trying to put things in order, scrabbling in the

sand for the empty shells.

The crowd is curious and embarrassed. Some turn away, others

drift back to their blankets, talking about what's just

happened, others stare rudely. Brody is coming apart.

Sean emerges from the crowd, and helps his daddy pick up the

bullets, Ellen moves to disperse the rudely curious.

CLOSE ON BRODY AND SEAN

He sees Sean, his eyes fill with tears, and he grabs the kid

in a fierce hug.

INT. TOWN HALL - DAY

A hurriedly called meeting of the town's Selectmen is in

session: Vaughn, Peterson, and three others: Kaiser, an old

man still in his grocery clerk's apron; Sansom; and Nichols,

the woman on the beach.

ANGLE FROM INSIDE VAUGHN'S OFFICE

as the selectmen troop into the cramped quarters. Vaughn

deliberately closes the door as they find seats around the

room.

INT. BRODY'S OFFICE - DAY

Brody, alone, is sitting at his desk, morosely studying a

little gold statuette of a pistol marksman. What's done is

done, and Brody is trying to figure out how to live with it.

The phone rings, is answered in the other room. The buzzer

sounds. Brody picks up his end.

He slams down the phone and gets up to go, suddenly possessed

with a purpose.

INT. DARKROOM - DAY

Amid the equipment, clutter and proofs, some shots of the

holidome opening, drying on wires. Phil Fogarty, the indignant

fat man and town photographer, is locking the door behind an

impatient Brody.

He holds out an 8 x 10 proof, Brody snatches it from him.

INSERT - PHOTOGRAPH

Brody stares down at it. Sure enough, the ghostly outlines

of the Orca, underwater, a diver on the deck making a gesture

at the camera.

ANGLE ON BRODY AND PHIL

He gestures, Brody steps to one side of a table with some

big enamel pans for washing and developing prints. Phil

switches to a red light, and takes some printing paper,

putting it under the enlarger.

QUICK CUTS:

--  Enlarger light going on.

--  Timer ticking, the hand turning.

--  Quick negative images: water, boat, diver, hand, boat

again, tantalizing fragments of the opening sequence projected

on the enlarger's flat base.

--  Hypo and Developer sloshing in a pan under Phil's hands.

--  Brody staring down.

INSERT (PROCESS)

Quietly gaining contrast in a pan of developer, a print of

what at first looks like seaweed, then is unmistakably the

grinning jaws of the Great White.

SUBLIMINAL FLASH CUT - SHARK

A quick nightmare vision of Brody, alone in a sinking Orca,

trapped in a battered cabin interior; a Great White crashes

through the glass, its head huge as it lunges.

INSERT PHOTOGRAPH IN DEVELOPER (PROCESS)

The close-up detail of this otherwise blurred and unreadable

photo is unmistakably a detail from a very close view of the

snapping jaws of a Great White; if you hadn't seen it as a

memory, it would make no sense at all. For Brody, the meaning

is all too clear; for anyone who's never seen the monster

face-to-face, it's nothing.

Phil's hands, holding plastic tongs, gently slosh the print

in the bath. The shark's features are indistinguishable from

the surrounding detail.

EXT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

Brody walks into view, and starts up the steps into the town

hall, already lit from within. He's carrying a large envelope.

INT. TOWN HALL - NIGHT

The Selectmen (Kaiser, Sansom, Nichols), Len Peterson, and

Vaughn are seated informally around the big table.

Brody enters, carrying the envelope with the photo.

He fumbles with the envelope.

He throws the picture down in front of them. They bend over

to study it, pass it around, look at it.

He snatches up the photo.

INSERT PHOTO

Just as before, an ambiguous pattern of light and dark; not

proof of anything without Brody's inner vision.

ANGLE ON BRODY

waving the picture.

Sansom and Kaiser agree, ad lib, "That's nothing..."

The Selectmen look at each other in the face of Brody's

agitation. Tempers are running high.

There's a long pause.

The Selectmen file into Vaughn's office, leaving Brody alone

in the room. The last one in the door very carefully makes

sure it's tightly shut.

Brody sits alone at the table.

INT. VAUGHN'S OFFICE - NIGHT

They are sitting there, deliberating.

All the hands go up.

Vaughn's hand goes up, the sole dissent. They stare at him.

He goes to the door, and opens it.

EXT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT

The police jeep pulls up and stops; although the engine's

shut down, Brody still sits quietly inside the car. Then his

hand appears at the window, and he drops an empty beer can

onto the lawn. Clink.

After a while, he drops another beer can, then another, until

the "clinks" tell us he's polished off a six-pack on the way

home. Not too steady on his feet, Brody climbs out of the

car and starts for the door to his house.

INT. BRODY HOUSE - NIGHT

Ellen is working at her desk in the den. She is looking

towards the door, expectantly -- it's been an unusually long

pause between car arrival and husband arrival. Brody enters.

He takes a long look at her.

He goes to join her, bumping into some furniture in the dimly

lit room. Ellen has a beer and sandwich half-finished on her

desk; Brody takes a healthy swallow from the beer.

He tosses the photo sloppily on the desk.

Brody's slipping under; the beers and the day have finally

overcome him. He slumps in Ellen's arms.

She eases him onto the couch, tucking a comforter over his

inert shape.

ANGLE ON THE STAIRWELL

Sean comes down the stairs, sleepy, in his pajamas.

He comes into the darkened den.

ELLEN AND SEAN

Sean finds the photo, and stares at it idly.

She takes him by his sleepy hand and leads him out of the

room, leaving Brody tucked in on the couch, dead to the world.

INT. NEWSSTORE - NIGHT

This is the Amity teen-ager's hangout -- a newsstand and

pinball arcade with a minimal refreshment counter where soft

drinks and submarine sandwiches are dispensed. A jukebox is

blaring some n.d. rock music. Present are Donnie, Doug, Timmy,

Bob, Larry Vaughn Jr., Brooke, Marge, Denise, Jane, Andy,

and Mike. The boys are passing around hot-rod van and custom

boat magazines; the girls are looking at Silver Screen, Tiger

Beat, People, and Time. Andy and Mike are at the counter,

splitting a sandwich.

No one does. There's a bustle at the door, and some couples

enter from the movies: Patrick and Lucy, Ed and Tina, Polo

and Jackie. There are a lot of ad-lib greetings;

There's a general ad-lib agreement to organize a day's sailing

picnic.

Laughter from the gang.

They break up into pairs and trios, some going for the soda

fountain, others hanging out by the magazines.

ANGLE ON JACKIE AND MIKE

They ad lib agreement.

Brooke takes Mike aside, as Jackie goes to the jukebox.

Larry is right there with a quarter, standing next to her as

they select a tune.

Some rock music starts, and we:

INT. BRODY BEDROOM - DAY

Ellen is asleep under the covers, Brody, still in his clothes

from the night before, is sprawled on top; obviously he's

stumbled upstairs sometime during the night. There's a noise

down the hall, from Mike's room. Brody stirs, but doesn't

wake up.

INT. MIKE'S ROOM - DAY

Mike is holding a lamp that's almost fallen -- the noise we

just heard. He's almost dressed, but not quite satisfied

with his image in the mirror. He takes off his clean shirt,

and checks a more comfortable, worn shirt. A brief sniff to

make sure it's okay for another day, and he puts it on; he

tiptoes to the hall, where a noise stops him in his tracks.

INT. BRODY HALLWAY - DAY

Mike is frozen in his part-opened bedroom door. Sean's door

opens, and little Sean, also fully dressed, comes sneaking

out.

Sean does, and happily tiptoes with exaggerated stealth to

Mike; the two of them start downstairs.

EXT. BRODY HOUSE

Michael and Sean are walking away towards the road into town.

INT. BRODY UPSTAIRS HALLWAY - DAY

Brody emerges from the bathroom, dressed in sweatshirt, and

cutoffs: no uniform today. He starts downstairs, stopping

only to look into Mike's room. It's empty.

A grin crosses his face -- "My son, the Don Juan..." He goes

downstairs.

INT. BRODY KITCHEN - DAY

Brody enters from upstairs. He heats coffee. Ellen enters

dressed for work. He pours two cups.

She pours the coffee, they drink it for a moment.

Ellen and Brody sip their coffee quietly for a few moments.

Mrs. Silvera arrives, carrying groceries.

Brody and Ellen are at the door.

They leave.

EXT. DOCKSIDE - DAY

The Kids are into their boats, fitting out for a day of

recreational offshore sailing. Mike and Andy are readying

his Tornado, while Sean gets in the way. In the b.g.,

Hendricks can be seen puttering around on the Amity police

boat.

Sean knocks something over, Mike snaps at him.

Marge joins them, scooping Sean up.

Marge and Sean go over to her Lightening. Brooke and Jackie

come down the dock, dressed for sailing.

Mike looks: Andy, Jackie, Brooke, himself... Timmy moves in,

sensing the chance of a lifetime.

Timmy makes his move.

And she walks towards his boat, looking back for him to

follow. He's dumbstruck by his sudden good fortune.

He runs to join her, untying mooring lines like crazy; they're

together again at last for the first time. Andy is left

shuffling with Mike and Jackie.

And she plops down in Mike's boat, ready to be taken.

Anywhere.

Jackie flashes him one of her pouty little smiles. Why break

one heart when you can break two? Or more?

Mike is glaring. The message is clear, if unspoken.

Andy joins them.  Mike casts off, while Andy helps, and Jackie

sits there, looking cute.

ANGLE ON LARRY AND BOB

watching what's going on.

Bob gets the message and shuts up. The Sizzler fills its

sails, and points out of the harbor.

WIDE ON THE HARBOR

Lots of day-sailing Kids, a few bigger, adult boats, some

working fishermen and sport fishers; a typical recreational

boating mix. The Kids are finding the same general direction,

pointing out of the harbor.

QUICK CUTS

-- Sails being trimmed.

--  Brooke and Timmy, staring into each other's eyes as he

sets a course straight for the lighthouse.

--  Larry, lifting a hull, almost losing Bob.

EXT. HARBOR MOUTH - DAY

The Kids' boats, in a loose bunch, slipping out to sea.

REVERSE - LOOKING OUT TO SEA

The dive class boat, isolated near the channel, a group of

Kids in wet suits and tanks assembled with three adult

instructors: Tom Andrews, Crosby, and Sparky.

EXT. DIVING BOAT - DAY

Andrews and his assistant instructor, Sparky, are addressing

the class, when Mike and Andy's "Green Machine" sails by,

close.

Andrews dismisses them with a good-natured wave.

He turns to his class.

The class dutifully lines up and starts going in, while in

the b.g. the Kids sailboats head out to sea. Andrews' two

partners, Crosby and Sparky, get ready to follow the class

over.

He goes over, Andrews following. Sparky is with the class,

signaling "Down;" they submerge like clumsy seals.

UNDERWATER

The class, paired up, is drifting down; Sparky offering

encouragement as they descend. Andrews and Crosby are already

disappearing, swimming away with strong kicks.

FOLLOWING ANDREWS AND CROSBY

as they go over the edge of a shelf and drop into darker,

deeper waters. Crosby checks his depth, his watch, looks

around...

HIS POINT OF VIEW

far above him, the class, going about their business.

Below him, murk, depth, and suddenly, a big lunker bass.

Andrews sees it, too.

ANGLE - ON ANDREWS

Assuming Crosby is following, he takes off, following the

big lunker. Crosby, hung up in some minor equipment problem,

misses seeing him go. The two men are separated. Follow

Andrews as he twists and turns after the bass, going deeper,

losing him in the rocks, suddenly rounding a boulder, and

meeting, almost face-to-face, horror:

BELOW HIM THE SHARK

The Great White Shark, taking the striper in a single gulp,

it's looking up at Andrews with one glassy doll's eye; it

turns to face him directly, and we see the scar; ugly, red

and black, charred flesh from jaw back on the right side,

eyes and teeth gleaming like raw bone in the massive, uncaring

face.

Andrews' mouth clamps violently on his mouthpiece, then goes

wide as he screams in fear into the water. Finning backwards,

he ditches his weights, gulps for air, and yanks the cord on

his safety vest. It balloons out, and pulls him up, surging

towards the surface. The mouthpiece, useless, falls away

from his lips.

Eyes closed, hose dangling, Andrews hurtles upward, holding

his breath in a final, fatal panic, passing a startled Crosby.

THE DIVERS

look over at the rocketing ascent. What's wrong? Sparky

signals "up," and they begin to carefully follow him towards

the surface. Crosby's already surfacing.

DECK OF THE DIVING BOAT - DAY

Andrews is on his side, bloody froth on his lips. One of the

class is clinging to his legs, trying to arrest his

convulsions. Sparky is holding his shoulders, trying to

administer mouth-to-mouth.

In his arms, Andrews writhes, pain knotting his limbs.

Behind them, in the water, the fin surfaces, and casually

turns towards... the ocean. The Shark is headed for the sea.

And for the now distant Kids in their sailboats, dotting the

horizon in their familiar bright colors.

EXT. OCEAN - ED AND TINA'S SANDPIPER - DAY

They are alone. In the middle distance, the rest of the Kids'

sails can be seen, headed for the lighthouse in the distance.

The Sandpiper's sails are luffing, they're making no headway.

Ed is lashing the rudder as they continue to drift with the

current.

He fumbles in a cooler chest, produces a bottle of wine.

He pours the wine into the two paper cups.

And he fumbles for a blanket in a locker, thumping and banging

gear around as he rummages for it. Tina sips wine contentedly,

satisfied to wait.

UNDERWATER

The Sandpiper's hull, alone above us, as the Shark rises

with dreadful certainty, attracted by the erratic sounds of

Ed's hasty search.

ANGLE ON TINA - WATCHING THE OCEAN

The terrible fin breaks the surface, about 20 yards out,

then dips and disappears. Then, impossibly fast, the entire

Sandpiper is lifted from underneath by a powerful surge, as

the Shark lunges up against it from below, an unseen horror.

Ed is knocked over the side, into the water.

ANGLE ON ED

as he breaks the surface, shaking the hair out of his eyes,

trying to orient himself, finding the boat. He starts to

swim for it, Tina extending an arm to help him climb aboard.

ANGLE OVER THE GUNWALE, TOWARDS ED

He has barely taken two strokes when a powerful force takes

him from below the surface, rushing him towards us through

the water. Tina screams. Before Ed can react to the pain, he

is slammed face first into the boat. His jaw breaks, blood

smears his nose and lip.

His hands grab the wooden-cap rail with a death-grip.

REVERSE

Tina is staring down at the water, terror-stricken; Ed's

arms and head are f.g., as he locks onto the boat with

desperate hands.

INSERT

Ed's hands on the rail, knuckles white, an iron grip. With

awful finality, the force pulls down, and the wood shatters

and splits away as Ed's hands are pulled down and under by

the awful force.

TINA

her mouth working silently, unable to scream, staring down

at the blood and froth on the water, swirling in a grim eddy

under her, the Sandpiper rocking gently in the diminishing

swell.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

On the way to the lighthouse, but away from the harbor, the

Kids are sailing in fairly close order: The sloops (Polo,

Timmy, Marge) heeled well over in the stiff breeze, the faster

cats (Mike, Larry, Donny, etc.) skimming around, tacking

more often, faster and more maneuverable.

CLOSE ON PATRICK AND LUCY

She ducks under the boom, handling the jib sheets with easy

familiarity. They come about and scoot off on a new tack.

CLOSE ON POLO

Reading the wind, trimming sail expertly, competent and alone.

CLOSE ON TIMMY AND BROOKE

He comes about, she slides into him, he holds her to steady

her, she snuggles into his arms. True love, at last... He's

thrilled.

CLOSE ON DOUG

In his inflatable, poking slowly along. Marge passes him,

Sean hooting with glee.

ANGLE ON MIKE'S "GREEN MACHINE"

Jackie, Mike and Andy, clipping along, Larry Vaughn and Bob

in the Sizzler nearby. Mike lifts the hull, Jackie squeals

in delight.

He trims his sheets, the cat heels more, one hull flying,

Andy and Jackie clinging to the trampoline.

ANGLE ON THE SIZZLER

Larry is carefully adjusting his tiller, Bob senses what

he's doing.

They gybe sharply, running up behind the green cat.

THE SIZZLER AND THE "GREEN MACHINE"

Running close to each other; very tight two-by-two.

Mike and Larry silently fight for clean air, racing. Water

splashes over them.

CLOSE ON MIKE'S BOAT

He veers onto a less dramatic tack, sparing Jackie's hair.

Larry and Bob speed by, yelling.

Andy reveals a knowledgeable side to his character.

Jackie snuggles against Mike.

He goes forward to trim the jib, leaving the lovebirds

snuggling astern. They pull away from us, and we:

EXT. AMITY WATERFRONT STREET - DAY

Ellen and Brody are in the jeep; he's driving her to work.

There's a crowd at dockside, and the town ambulance's now

familiar blinking red light. Brody, out of force of habit,

wheels the jeep towards the action, nudging through the crowd,

which gives way to the official blue-and-white vehicle.

He gets out, and pushes through the crowd, Ellen following.

DOCKSIDE

The dive boat is moored at a clumsy angle next to the Police

Boat, where Hendricks has been pulling routine maintenance.

The Police launch is cluttered with tools and spare parts;

some non-essential piece of gear is stripped and laid out on

the deck. Hendricks is on the dive boat, kneeling next to

Andrews.

ABOARD THE DIVE BOAT

Andrews is shaking, bloody froth on his lips and chest. The

shaken divers are huddled together, an ambulance attendant

is wheeling a gurney into position. Crosby and Sparky are

stunned.

He is near collapse himself.

An Ambulance Attendant is putting a blanket around Sparky.

The other attendant holds something out to Brody. Brody

examines it; a scuba mouthpiece, bitten in two, useless.

Brody is gone, pushing through the crowd.

THE POLICE BOAT

Brody is casting off lines. Ellen is on the dock, watching

him.

Brody keeps working, making ready for sea.

Ellen is climbing aboard, taking off her heels.

Brody starts the engines with a roar, and slams it into

reverse. The boat starts out of the slip, then lunges to a

halt, shuddering on its still-fastened bow mooring line.

And she moves purposefully towards the boat cleat.

Brody is shifting gears, the boat is crabbing sideways as he

puts the helm hard over. It bumps the dock, hard.

Hendricks goes to the bow, jumps aboard and frees the bow

line. The boat slips into reverse, the water boiling as Brody

guns it away from the dock.

He takes the wheel, eases off on the rudder, and comes about,

pointing the launch out to sea.

WIDE ON THE HARBOR

The Amity Police Boat, Brody, Ellen and Hendricks aboard, is

headed under full power out to sea. Hendricks is pumping the

horn, warning boats out of the way, ignoring the rules of

the road; as small boats scatter out of the way, we can see

the ambulance, red light flashing, pushing out slowly through

the crowd at dockside.

ABOARD THE AMITY POLICE BOAT - DAY

As they clear the harbor mouth, Brody is on the radio, Ellen

is crouching in the shelter of the deckhouse, Hendricks is

steering.

As Brody's eyes sweep the horizon anxiously, Hendricks pours

it on, and the police boat surges forward.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - KIDS SAILING

Donnie and Denise and Susie are sailing close to each other.

She nods agreement, their boats veer off from the rest and

head towards the lighthouse.

ANGLE ON THE SIZZLER

as it sails close to the Green Machine.

Larry is confident -- he's got the air, but Mike suddenly

gybes without warning, snapping onto a new fast tack,

downwind. Larry and Bob are caught by surprise, and lose

precious moments as they fumble with their sails.

He pounds with glee on the canvas trampoline as their boat

moves ahead, a drumming sound.

UNDERWATER

The twin hulls of a catamaran's hull, the muffled, eerie

sound of drumming, as the water carries the tempting "thud-

thud-thud" sound down to the deep.

ANGLE ON DOUG IN HIS INFLATABLE

falling behind as the boats change course for the marker

buoy, following Larry and Mike's lead.

Brooke and Timmy sail by him, laughing; Polo with them.

PATRICK AND LUCY

Pat and Lucy are trimming sail, moving faster.

QUICK CUTS - SAILBOAT RACING MONTAGE

--  Ropes and sails rattling through blocks.

--  Sails snapping taut, filling with wind.

--  Catamarans heeled over, racers hanging over the water,

dangerously suspended in trapeze harnesses.

--  Skippers' faces, concentrating on boat handling.

AERIAL VIEW - SAILBOATS

It's the chopper's point of view, as the Harbor Patrol copter

from the Cape flies towards the Kids, following Brody's

previous instructions. He sees the sailboats and fly that

way.

LOOKING UP AT THE APPROACHING COPTER

It approaches the sailboats, losing altitude fast, rotor

blades chuffing up a storm.

The Pilot has his microphone to his lips, and his voice is

blaring down at them.

THE BOATS

The Kids look at each other, some coming about awkwardly,

others luffing, wondering what this is all about.

He waves acknowledgement, and puts about. The others take

their cue from him, and set a rough course back, but without

much success.

PATRICK AND LUCY

ANGLE ON THE THREE SLOOPS

Polo, Timmy and Brooke, Marge and Sean. They see the faster

catamarans come about and try to beat back.

She puts about, the three of them start back towards the

lighthouse, not making much headway. Doug's inflatable is

the slowest, and he is now, by virtue of his position, at

the head of the line beating back towards the island.

DOUG'S BOAT

The others in the b.g.

INSERT - A WEAK PATCH IN THE RUBBER

It whistles and visibly leaks under the strain.

DOUG

looking down in dismay.

He rigs a little foot pump, and begins thumping away, trying

to breath air back into the raft.

INT. CHOPPER - LOOKING DOWN AT THE SAILBOATS

UNDERWATER

Looking up at the scattered hulls of the sailboats, the

turbulence from the low-flying chopper making a vast circular

pattern of irregular vibrations.

LOOKING UP AT THE CHOPPER

It wheels around, and heads back towards land.

ABOARD THE AMITY POLICE BOAT - DAY

Rushing through the seas under full power. About three hundred

yards ahead, a small, seemingly empty sailboat; Ed and Tina's

Sandpiper. Further off, a day-sailing power cruiser, sport

fishing.

Hendricks maneuvers closer, slowing the engine, reversing in

time to bring them alongside with a gentle bump. Ellen watches

apprehensively as Brody drops into the little boat.

Brody moves around on the deck of the Sandpiper, until he

discovers Tina, cowering in shock; a sudden revealing of a

terrorized victim.

Hendricks has gotten a blanket, and he steps over, putting

it over the shivering girl's shoulders. Ellen comforts the

girl.

ANGLE ON BRODY - FOLLOWING HIM AS HE REACTS

He moves abruptly, stepping up onto the police launch,

snapping on the radio, leaving Hendricks, Ellen and Tina on

the sailboat moored alongside.

His eyes wild, Brody looks over at the Sandpiper, then scans

the nearby waters with sudden tension.

BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW

Ellen and Hendricks comforting Tina on the Sandpiper. Nearby,

a big cabin cruiser casually trolling by. Brody pulls the

police boat's air horn, the cruiser's passengers look over,

Hendricks and Ellen jump at the unexpected blast.

ANGLE ON BRODY

Brody starts the launch's motor, throwing clear the mooring

line that ties the two boats together.

Hendricks complies.

And he kicks the engine into gear, moving the launch away

and out toward the sea.

He guns the engine as soon as he's clear. Hendricks gives

his jacket to a suddenly chilled Ellen, and hails the cabin

cruiser, already changing course to pick them up, sounding

its horn.

Ellen stares after the receding boat.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - THE KID'S SAILBOATS

They are trying to beat back towards the lighthouse, fighting

wind and tide. Only Doug's inflatable, with its clumsy little

motor, is making any headway.

ANGLE ON DOUG

playing at being Charles Laughton.

Pumping, steering, he's floundering along.

UNDERWATER - MOVING TOWARDS THE SURFACE

The Shark has fixated on something -- one outlying shape,

the easily identifiable outline of Doug's inflatable, thumping

and putting. It homes in on the sound.

ANGLE ON DOUG AND THE KIDS

The other kids exchange banter with Doug in his raft, as he

clowns for their benefit.

Despite his pumping, the bulging patch bursts with a loud

bang.

A fin rises partially, almost invisible to most of the kids,

but Mike notices it, believing it to be a porpoise.

Before anyone can react, the shape rises behind Doug, striking

his raft a terrible blow.

THE OTHERS, WATCHING

Not making any headway themselves, they casually watch the

class clown, wondering what he's up to this time.

DOUG'S BOAT

a distance from the rest. It shakes, then blows up as big

teeth grip it from below. Doug goes flying into the drink.

The Shark has the inflatable in his teeth, and is shaking it

from side to side. Doug's eyes bug out as he sees what's

going on. He begins treading water, backing away as fast as

he can, waving his arm in the air frantically -- "pick me

up, quick..."

MIKE'S BOAT

He sails to where Doug is being carried along by the current.

The inflatable is a mess -- shredded rubber and dead engine;

the Shark didn't like it.

Doug carefully -- oh, so carefully -- strokes over to where

Mike and Andy can pull him abroad. Some of the others sail

closer to get a look.

THE GROUP, DRIFTING TOGETHER

This incident hasn't yet touched them -- no one actually saw

what it was, except Doug, who's never been serious about

anything. Until now.

There's nervous laughter from all around as they examine the

remains of Doug's inflatable. Some of those jagged rents

could be made by teeth...

ANGLE ON MIKE'S BOAT

Doug's inflatable is draped over the tip of one hull, forward.

Without warning, the Shark hits. Screams, terror, confusion.

Mike, Andy, Jackie into the water.

CLOSE ON MIKE

His head bangs on a metal fitting as the boat turns over.

ON THE GROUP

Patrick and Lucy ram into Timmy's boat, locking into it,

knocking Timmy into the water as Brooke screams.

CONFUSION

As the following events take place:

--  Larry's red cat rams and locks onto Mike's Tornado.

--  Marge's boat capsizes, putting Sean and Marge into the

drink.

--  Marge scrambles up on the over-turned hull, pulling Sean

up with her, just in time.

--  Polo, under full sail, scoops Mike out of the water before

the Shark can get to him.

--  The Shark dips out of sight.

SURFACE, WIDE OVER THE STERN OF POLO'S BOAT

showing the results of the turmoil:

ANGLE ON THE SURVIVORS

As they make ineffectual, frightened moves towards grouping

together, Andy is the first to gain any composure.

He reaches towards a drifting line, and pulls Timmy's

Doughdish towards them, tying it off as it comes close.

Polo has Mike and Timmy aboard his boat.  Timmy is looking

up from examining Mike's dazed body.

He starts to make sail back towards the lighthouse, on a

severe, but manageable tack. Polo, Timmy, and the injured

Mike sail towards safety, leaving the others behind.

Tackle the job at hand, concentrating on survival. Jackie is

strangely quiet; things are out of control...

CLOSE ON A NAUTICAL CHART - DAY

clearly marked: Amity Island, Amity Lighthouse, Cable

Junction. Brody's nervous finger traces an approximation of

his course. It fumbles, pauses, stops.

ABOARD THE POLICE BOAT - DAY

Brody, looking up from his chart, scans the ocean. Ahead is

the Lighthouse, his immediate destination. Out of sight to

the right, Cable Junction, and beyond that, 2500 miles of

cold Atlantic. Brody looks up from his chart, and grabs the

radio.

Static. No answer. Brody realizes something

EXT. OCEAN, NEAR THE LIGHTHOUSE - DAY

We can see Brody's boat approaching. It slows as it nears

the island.

CLOSE ON BRODY

staring, perplexed. Which way?

He puts the wheel over, slewing the boat around. To the left --

the wrong way.

ANGLE ON THE BOAT, LIGHTHOUSE IN B.G.

It barrels off to the left.

THE RAFTED BOATS

floating in the current, drifting away from the lighthouse,

towards the open sea. Floating on the wreckage and tangled

boats are:  Doug, Andy, Jackie, Patrick, Lucy, Larry, Bob,

Brooke, Marge, and Sean.

Larry, Bob, Patrick, and Lucy (the practiced sailors) ad lib

equal dissatisfaction.

No one does.

Silence from the group.

They consider this.

The Kids scramble to rig whatever canvas is available.

HELICOPTER (AERIAL) FLY-BY

A panorama of open ocean; a quick fly-by to orient us: First,

Cable Junction, then, a mile or so ahead, the raft.

THE RAFT

More sail, some improvised rigging, Patrick and Lucy trimming

what there is, trying to steer the clumsy contraption. From

afar, the distant sound of an approaching chopper.

The Kids react with enthusiasm to the arrival of the rescue

chopper.

But they ignore him. The copter is descending.

INT. COPTER - DAY

A one-man light spotter; the space next to the pilot cluttered

with tools and floats, lashed in place. Below, seen through

the plastic bubble, the raft growing larger as the chopper

sets down.

THE RAFT

The helicopter is creating a lot of turbulence as it sets

down, a huge circular pattern of prop-wash on the surface as

the rotors slow to a halt. The Kids are waving and jubilant.

ANGLE ON THE COPTER

As the Pilot unbuckles, opens the door, and steps out on one

pontoon; he speaks through a bullhorn.

The Kids ad-lib in the affirmative.

The Pilot nods. Larry heaves a line to him, the Pilot catches

it and makes it fast to a convenient tie-off on the

undercarriage.

The other Kids all chime in, adding their ad-lib shouts

describing what happened, calling for help, etc. It's all a

noisy jumble, the Pilot ignores it, trying to do his job.

ANGLE ON THE RAFT

The Kids all shouting at once; Jackie is screaming.

ANGLE ON THE PILOT

He finishes tying off, and yells through his bullhorn at the

Kids.

He climbs into his bubble, shuts the door, gives the Kids a

"thumbs up," and starts the engine.

QUICK CUTS - RAFT AND CHOPPER

Engine turning over.

A line tied off to one of the ringbolts on an overturned

hull; it pulls taut out of the water.

INT. CHOPPER, THE PILOT INTENT ON HIS JOB.

The raft, Kids watching in fascination and anticipation.

The whole operation, getting under way.

UNDERWATER

looking up at pontoons, wreckage, wind turbulence on the

surface, the heavy "thud-thud-thud" of chopper blades.

WIDE ON THE RAFT AND CHOPPER

In the f.g., the fin rises, and starts for the scene.

Follow it.

CLOSE ON THE CHOPPER

as it starts to lift, inexplicably. The Pilot reacts as;

THE SHARK

attacks one of the pontoons, biting down on it, clamping

great scarred jaws onto the bulbous floats.

THE RAFT

Kids screaming.

QUICK CUTS

--  Rotor blade spinning wildly.

--  Pilot's hands jerked on the delicate controls.

--  Med. shot, copter shaking.

--  Closeup engine and gas tanks, rotor head spinning.

--  Med. closeup Pilot in buffeting cockpit.

RAFT AND COPTER

The Kids watch, horror-stricken, as the giant Shark hangs on

the roaring copter; in the b.g., Cable Junction is looming

closer. The copter tilts dangerously, the Shark bites deeper,

harder.

ANGLE ON THE COPTER

as it tilts. Then, the unspeakable -- the blades touch the

water and explode. Chunks of murderous steel break off the

shattered blades and whistle through the air like projectiles.

THE KIDS

reacting, ducking in terror. Huge chunks of disintegrating

rotors are flying all around. Masts and sails left standing

before are chopped into a deadly salad. Screams.

LOW IN THE WATER

as blades skip and crash, the bubble of the overturned copter,

Pilot trapped inside, sinks into the sea.

THE COPTER COCKPIT - UNDERWATER

Pilot struggling with his safety harness, trying to hit

switches, working on instinct. Some air in the bubble, but

water too, and sparks as electrical connections short out

and burn.

Then, the Shark, powering out of the murk.

ANGLE ON THE PILOT - UNDERWATER

as grim death batters at his fragile bubble. Screaming.

The bubble cracks. Water floods, teeth snap at the slippery

plastic, the Pilot fumbles for oxygen as the Shark veers off

into the murk.

ON THE SURFACE - THE RAFT

The Kids, reacting as the broken copter sinks beneath the

waves. Calm for a moment, then:

The Shark reappears, and batters at the raft.

SHARK ATTACK

The raft shudders, and begins to break up under the pounding.

The Kids cling for their lives to masts and wreckage.

Marge's overturned hull is struck a fierce blow from beneath.

He and Marge topple into the water.

Sean is bobbing in his life-vest, Marge strokes to be near

him.

ANGLE ON MARGE AND SEAN

in the water, swimming for the apparent safety of the raft.

Then, the fin, and the massive bulk of the killer, heaving

up through the waves.

She heaves him up out of the water, hurling him with

desperation towards the safety of the floating hull.

ANGLE ON SEAN

screaming, hands and feet scrabbling like a monkey as he

struggles for a grip on the slippery surface. Behind him,

Marge helping as much as she can from the water. Then, behind

her;

THE SHARK

rising like grey doom, then dropping out of sight. Marge is

gone.

UNDERWATER

Marge ducking under the bulk of the Shark, shoving off with

panicky reserves of strength, swimming away underwater, while

the Shark takes a massive crunching bite out of a submerged

hull.

Follow Marge as she swims.

COPTER WRECKAGE

Huddled in the cracked plastic bubble, the Pilot is sucking

air from his oxygen tank. He sees Marge, and slips out of

his bubble, headed for her.

MARGE

As the Pilot overtakes her -- a moment of horror, as she

thinks the Shark has found her, then relief, as the Pilot

motions to the bubble, and indicates "Air." She follows him.

MARGE AND THE PILOT

Scuttling like two crabs into the shelter of the broken

chopper, buddy breathing as he passes her the oxygen tube.

The chopper tilts, and moves, breaking up on the bottom as

currents move it. They struggle silently.

ANGLE ON THE CHOPPER

as it slips across the bottom, the current pulling it, broken

parts breaking off in slow motion, dirty swirls of oil and

hydraulic fluid clouding the water.

ON THE SURFACE - THE RAFT

A parallel struggle for survival, as the current separates

Sean from the other Kids; Marge is gone, the little boy is

clinging alone to the free-floating Lightening.

ON THE SURFACE - A DISTANCE AWAY

Copter wreckage is bubbling up from underneath, like a

submarine destroyed by depth charges; an oil slick, pieces

of broken blade, a seat cushion, then, suddenly, the Pilot,

and Marge, almost choked to death, their air run out. They

cling to a section of pontoon, panting, looking around with

oxygen-starved eyes.

They are alone on the ocean; a half-mile away, the distant

sails of the broken raft, and the low-lying shape of Cable

Junction. Safe, for now...

BRODY - ALONE IN THE POLICE BOAT - DAY

He throttles down, and the boat slumps in the water. He looks

around, sees nothing, in all directions. He hits his radio.

Static, no answer. He tries a couple of times, checking the

knobs and dials to make sure the unit's working.

The familiar voice is tinged with annoyance. He's had a long

shift, and nothing's going right.

Brody revs up, and powers out, headed for Cable Junction.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - THE RAFT

Sean is crying on his isolated perch, clinging to the upturned

keel. The other Kids are throwing a rope, trying to get him

back. Patrick heaves, and misses.

The others shoot fearful glances at the waters.

Sean is ignoring the efforts to rescue him, paralyzed by

fear, he shivers alone. Jackie is near catatonia herself,

Brooke and Doug trying to soothe her.

The kid looks up dully.

Sean nods. The other Kids are encouraged. The rope is thrown --

it misses.

Bob climbs to a vantage point, watching.

Another miss. In his haste to help, Larry overreaches to

fish the trailing rope out of the water, and falls headlong

into the sea. Shrieks of fright from the others.

He scrambles out, hardly wet, that's how fast he's moving.

Finally -- Patrick takes the crucial throw, and the rope

practically knocks Sean off his perch, but he clutches and

holds it. As Andy carefully calls instructions, Sean secures

the rope and the others carefully, carefully begin to pull

him in.

ANGLE - ON SEAN

as they pull. The slippery rope is undoing itself.

THE RAFT

With the kids reaching out hands, sticks, rope, anything to

pull the little one to safety. The ocean swells rise and

fall with hidden menace.

QUICK CUTS

--  Hands gripping rope.

--  The knot, pulling apart.

--  Anguished faces, concentrating, as Patrick, Lucy, Larry,

and Andy struggle to bring him in.

ANDY AND SEAN

Success. He's pulled to safety. They lash his little hull as

tight as they can to the rest of the floating wreckage.

Bob sees something.

BOB'S POINT OF VIEW

looking over the wreckage to Cable Junction, now much closer.

Beyond it, miles of empty Atlantic. It's off to one side,

and unless they can slow down or alter course, they will

miss it.

THE RAFT

She's not. Shaking, silent, eyes glazed.

Andy joins him, and they try to make a sweep or a rudder out

of whatever wreckage they can use.

BRODY'S POLICE BOAT - DAY

He is rounding a sand bar off the lighthouse when he looks

ahead and sees the bright sails of some of the survivors'

boats.

He puts the helm over and heads for them.

EXT. OCEAN NEAR LIGHTHOUSE - DAY

Polo's sloop is beating back towards the harbor when the

police launch bears down, Brody leaning on the air horn.

The Kids signal and wave.

The launch slows clumsily. Timmy gets a line around a cleat,

and pulls them fast.

Brody goes for his radio, to report in, to call for help.

The three boys look at each other.

He stops in his tracks, radio forgotten. heartsick. Mike

goes on,

Brody jerks the mooring line holding them together, freeing

it. He starts for his controls, obsessed.

He indicates the lighthouse, then guns his engine.

He roars off, headed towards Cable Junction.

EXT. OCEAN - DAY - THE RAFT

approaching Cable Junction the rafted boats are drifting

towards the Cable Junction.  Larry, Patrick and Andy are

working on improvised tiller lines to a jury rudder made out

of wreckage. Lucy has another line out to a sea anchor, trying

to slow their drift.

His hands illustrate the predicament.

The others are silent. It's true.

ANGLE ON THE RAFT

Larry, Bob and Brooke try to alter its course by padding.

They freeze, as the raft grinds against something.

UNDERWATER

The inverted mast of one of the wrecked boats is snagged on

the rocks on the bottom.

ANGLE ON THE RAFT

as it slows, then stops, hung up from below.

The group dissolves in bitter exchanges. No one is rational.

Lucy is the first to notice something...

The group subsides, only Jackie is left, keening to herself.

There's a distant sound of a boat's engine. Bob spots it

first, and waves.

The others follow his pointing finger.

HIS POINT OF VIEW - BRODY'S POLICE BOAT

under full power, heading straight for them,

THE KIDS

go crazy, waving, yelling, screaming, "Over here!" "Help!"

"Hey!"

ANGLE ON BRODY AND THE RAFT

in the boat, coming up on the Kids fast. He throttles back,

his bow wave almost swamping them as he slides past.

Brody fumbles with the throttle, manages to hold his boat

steady between the raft and Cable Junction island.

Brody finds a coil of line, makes one end fast, then throws

it to the Kids on the raft. They catch it, and tie it off to

a cleat.

Brody throttles forward, the police boat shudders under the

strain as the line goes taut.

ANGLE ON THE RAFT

where the rope is tied off to a cleat. The wood groans, screws

pop --

Too late. The cleat rips out, Brody's boat leaps forward.

ANGLE ON BRODY'S BOAT

as he repositions; he's now between the raft and the island,

preparing to throw his line. He heaves, the Kids grab, they

have it, they tie off again,

Brody starts to pull the raft again, when:

THE SHARK

surfaces, and moves purposefully towards the gap that

separates the police boat from the raft. It lunges at Brody

as it passes the launch; the fin hits the taut rescue line,

snapping it.

ANGLE ON BRODY'S BOAT

Brody recoils in horror as the beast rushes past, he spins

the wheel and hits the throttle, sending the launch hard to

port. Out of control, it runs up on the rocks of Cable

Junction.

INSIDE THE BOAT

as it tips up on the rocks. Brody falls, equipment and loose

material breaks loose and falls.

INSERT - THE RADIO

held by only a few screws, it pulls out of its mount and

shatters on the deck.

ANGLE ON THE STERN

lifting high out of the water, the screw turning in air.

THE KIDS ON THE RAFT

Their horrified reactions.

BRODY IN THE BOAT

picks himself up, and staggers to the rail, sees his

predicament.

He climbs over the rail, onto the slippery wet rocks, trying

to get to where he can help. The Shark patrols the gap,

waiting.

ABOARD THE RAFT

the Kids find some line. Andy coils, and throws.

CABLE JUNCTION - THE RAFT

Brady catches the Kids' line. He heaves on it with all his

might. Nothing. Jackie is hysterical, some of the other Kids

are screaming. The Shark's fin catches the taut line, it

slides up and over, Brody and the Kids are nearly pulled

into the water. The raft doesn't budge.

UNDERWATER

the mast bends under the strain, but holds the raft stuck

fast.

CABLE JUNCTION - BRODY AND THE KIDS

He sees the winch and hooks on his launch, and makes the

towline fast to the steel winch cable; puts it in neutral.

The Kids haul their line, trying to bring the steel cable to

them.

The shark rams their raft, impatient now. Screams and

scrambling as they let go their line and try to avoid the

beast. Brooke huddles with Sean, Jackie cowers alone. Larry

is lashing his big buck knife to a pole, an improvised weapon.

ANGLE ON THE WINCH LINE

Unattended, it drops into the water.

THE KIDS

They do, but now the winch cable is snagged under the surface.

It comes taut, but doesn't budge. Brody watches, helpless

for the moment.

BRODY

climbs back onto the boat, starts the winch engine, trying

to pull the cable free.

THE SHARK

on the offensive now, takes an outrigger pontoon, biting it,

tearing it off the raft, shaking everything.

ON THE RAFT

the Kids react to this fresh attack.

IN THE BOAT

The winch smokes and stalls, the weight it's pulling almost

too much.

THE RAFT

bursts apart from the center as the Shark lunges up through

the canvas trampoline of the Sizzler. The Kids, screaming,

fall into the water as the attack forces the fragile structure

into pieces. Only Sean, Brooke, and Jackie are left on the

remaining segment.

ANGLE ON BRODY

watching the destruction, seeing Sean practically alone in

the water.

He looks around the deck frantically, spots a rubber emergency

inflatable in its case. He wrestles it off its brackets, and

breaks the seals urgently. He hits the auto-inflate.

BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW - SEAN

Alone on the raft, Brooke and Jackie helpless nearby, the

other Kids flailing in the water. The huge bulk of the Shark,

fin cutting the water as it closes in on the confusion.

IN THE WATER

While Brody inflates the rubber raft and throws it in the

water, the Kids scramble for safety, swimming for their lives.

Each one is sure this moment is going to be his last.

Andy is pulling himself towards the boat, scrambling up on

the exposed wooden hull.

ANGLE ON LUCY AND BOB

As she looks over her shoulder and screams -- the monster is

sliding past her, intent on Bob. The rough hide scrapes her,

tearing her clothes, leaving raw bleeding lacerations on her

torso.

Larry and Patrick help her towards the rocks.

He's clinging to a piece of broken boat; the Shark lunges at

him.

INSERT - WINCH

grinding, smoking, hauling something out of the water --

heavy, slimy, dripping metal cable, the main powerline from

the mainland!

BRODY IN THE WATER

paddling the raft towards Sean with desperate strokes,

heedless of the danger around him.

He fights to see in the gathering gloom. Suddenly, a strange

glare snaps on, then more illumination, in a series of

escalating clicks.

CABLE JUNCTION

Silhouetted against the evening sky. Automatic timers are

turning on navigation and worklights, illuminating the barren

rocks and rusty steel with their glare -- throwing dark

shadows, putting the surrounding water into black limbo by

their contract.

ANGLE ON BRODY

straining to see what's going on. Looking for his son.

He looks around desperately, sees Andy safe on the launch.

ANGLE ON ANDY

soaked, clinging to the rail of the launch, hearing Brody,

fumbling in the cabin, turning on worklights, the boat

throwing erratic shafts of powerful light from its many lamps

and searchlights. Andy grabs one and sweeps the water with

it, trying to help.

His light pokes and sweeps through the gloom.

BRODY IN THE WATER

He hears the horrendous sounds of wood and metal breaking,

as the raft pounds to pieces on the rocks. He is blinded by

the sweeping searchlight, the confusion of terror-stricken

teen-agers screaming. It's the middle of The Inferno.

BRODY'S POINT OF VIEW - SEAN

Sean, standing up, reaching out to him, the Shark hitting

his fragile perch, Sean tumbling backwards, towards what

seems to be certain death.

ANGLE ON BRODY

as he hurls his paddle at the Shark, anything to get even,

to distract it.

He looks around him wildly, searching for a weapon, finding

a steel boathook. He screams at the unfeeling Shark...

The huge gray hulk obligingly turns towards this new

irritation. Brody bangs on the raft, yelling, creating a

commotion.

THE SHARK SPEEDS TOWARDS HIM

THE SHARK

lunges at the raft, Brody sliding desperately away, smashing

at the snout with his steel, the tail fin bashing him as it

passes...

ANGLE ON THE STERN OF THE POLICE BOAT

Brody is drifting close to the cable, drawn heavy and wet

cut of the water. He reaches up to it.

ANGLE ON BRODY

dangling his feet in the water, holding onto the cable, seeing

it, inspired with a lunatic idea...

THE SHARK

turns, bleeding from a superficial cut on its snout, its

scar glistening wet and terrible. It heads for Brody.

BRODY

Possessed, yelling at the top of his lungs.

THE SHARK

Attacking. Missing Brody, who hauls himself up out of the

way in life-or-death spasm. The great jaws close, fastening

onto the thick cable. Shaking it. The cable resists for a

moment, then splits, layers or insulation and armor crack

open, the jaws clamp harder -- 20,000 tons of pressure --

then the live copper core is reached. Zap!

THE SHARK

dying. Leaping and convulsing as hundreds of thousands of

volts surge through its body, grounded in the salt sea. Hot

white fire shimmers like a halo, the fish smokes and stinks,

sputters, and dies.

BRODY

watching, cowering on the rubber raft to which he fell when

the shark hit the cable. It's strangely silent. The lights

on Cable Junction flicker and die as circuit breakers shut

down the mains, protecting the line. Only the boat's

worklights provide light now.

No answer. Water lapping at the rocks, some Kids sobbing

quietly. Brody listlessly paddles towards the wreckage of

the raft, expecting the worst...

ANGLE ON THE WRECKAGE

Timmy's Doughdish, where we last saw Sean. There's a

scrabbling from inside, and Sean appears, soaked, from under

the seat where he'd fallen.

Brody moves toward him, holds out his arms, taking Sean onto

his raft. They paddle back towards the rocks.

THE ISLAND

with the Kids clinging like drowned rats to the rocks; they're

wet, scared, exhausted, but safe. Sean hugs his daddy as

they step onto land.

He kisses the damp forehead.

EXT. AMITY HARBOR - DAY

A crowd of worried parents and adults, Ellen and Hendricks

in the forefront, are staring towards the harbor mouth. It's

dawn and the sun is rising. They see something, a cheer goes

up.

ANGLE ON THE WATER

A big Coast Guard cutter is steaming into the harbor, a little

group of survivors on the foredeck.

CLOSE ON THE CUTTER

Brody and the surviving Kids wave to their families on land.

ROLL END CREDITS.

