CHYRON

A long time ago, in front of a convenience store far, far

away--

EXT. QUICK STOP YEARS AGO--DAY

We FADE IN on the block of stores (Quick Stop/RST), from

sometime ago, In fact, RST isn't RST; it's THE RECORD RACK --

a 45's store with head shop paraphernalia in the window. A

white-trash MOTHER (maybe seventeen) wearing a baseball cap

comes into frame carrying a chubby BABY. The Baby wears an

oversized t-shirt under what looks like a little bathrobe,

and messily eats a CHOCOLATE BAR. There are food stamps in

the Mother's hands.

She looks up at the bright sun, shielding her eyes slightly,

then looks back at the baby on the ground. She takes off her

baseball cap and places it on the baby.

She walks away, leaving the baby sitting against the wall.

With the backwards baseball cap and the chocolate around his

mouth forming something that resembles a beard, the kid looks

kind of familiar.

Then, another MOTHER (also very young) decked out in a KISS

concert shirt from years gone by and huge, feathered hair

enters, with a black skullcap wearing BABY slung at her hip.

She sees the first Baby, sitting against the wall and sets

her Baby down beside him.

A PASSERBY enters, heading toward the convenience store. He

takes note of the Babies and the Mother heading into the

record store, and then stops and addresses her, disgusted.

The Passerby walks away. The Mother flips him the bird.

The door closes, and the Babies sit there quietly for a beat.

Then, they look at each other. The larger one says nothing.

The smaller one says--

THE PRESENT

JAY and SILENT BOB stand where the Babies sat. The Record

Rack is now RST VIDEO.

Jay is mid-chant.

A pair of TEENS approach them.

Jay suddenly grabs the kid by the throat, throwing him against

the wall.

Just then, RANDAL exits the video store, locking the door

behind him.

He exits. Jay, Silent Bob, and the Teens watch him go. After

a beat--

INT. QUICK STOP-DAY

Randal joins Dante behind the counter. Dante rings up a

customer, a half-eaten submarine sandwich sitting on the

counter. Randal grabs it, takes a bite, and starts reading a

newspaper.

Enter Teen 1 and Teen 2, chuckling.

EXT. QUICK STOP--DAY

Jay and Silent Bob are thrown against the wall outside by a

COP, who frisks them.

Teen 1 enters and hands Jay rolling papers.

Teen 1 races off. Jay and Bob move to follow, but the Cop

stops them, grabbing the rolling papers out of Jay's hand.

He eyeballs the pair.

Jay drops his pants and leans against the wall, looking back

over his shoulder.

Jay bends down to pull up his pants and FARTS. Silent Bob

cracks up. The Cop grabs them both, leading them toward the

car.

EXT. BRODIE BRUCE'S SECRET STASH COMIC BOOK STORE--DAY

An ESTABLISHING SHOT of Brodie's store in the heart of Red

Bank.

WE GO TIGHT on the huge, cartoon sign of BRODIE outside to--

INT. BRODIE BRUCE'S SECRET STASH COMIC BOOK STORE--LATER

BRODIE himself, holding a stack of comics in one hand and a

Dixie cup in the other, Jay and Silent Bob follow him as he

puts new books in the racks.

Brodie leads them back to the counter.

Brodie hands Jay and Silent Bob a copy of Wizard, opened to

the headline: Snootchie Bootchies! Bluntman and Chronic Get

Big Screen Treatment!  There are pictures of HOLDEN MCNEIL

AND BANKY EDWARDS, as well as drawings of Bluntman and

Chronic.

Jay lays down a House bass beat. Brodie complements it with

his own beat.

EXT. POTZER'S INC--DAY

Jay and Silent Bob mosey past the front door of the building

and knock.

INT. POTZER'S INC--DAY

Holden McNeil, opens the door and smiles.

Jay and Silent Bob enter. Holden closes the door, following

them.

Silent Bob shrugs.

Silent Bob holds up the Wizard article.

Silent Bob nod like he's finally understood. Jay looks at

him, hurt, and Bob tried to downplay the comment's truth.

INT. OFFICE OF POTZER'S INC--LATER

Holden's at a computer terminal. Jay and Silent bob look

over his shoulder.

On the computer monitor, we see the site mainpage load up.

Holden begins navigating the site.

Holden and Jay slap hands. Holden points at the monitor again.

Holden, Jay and Silent Bob pause and look at the camera for

a beat. Then--

Jay and Bob stand and look at each other, filled with purpose.

They stride off. Holden shakes his head.

EXT. BUS STATION--DAY

Jay and Silent Bob approach a bus that's labeled "Los

Angeles." They nod at each other and then climb aboard. After

a beat, they re-emerge.

They head toward the depot.

EXT. HIGHWAY--DAY

The bus roars past a sign that read: Leaving New Jersey.

INT. BUS--SAME

Jay makes his way up to the DRIVER.

Jay glares at the Driver and heads back to his seat.

Jay slumps into the seat beside Silent Bob.

Silent Bob mimes jerking off.

Silent Bob shrugs, looking out the window, Jay looks across

the aisle and spots a CHILD IN A HELMET playing a handheld

video game. He leans over to him.

The Child gives him the finger. Jay goes wide-eyed, turning

to Silent Bob.

Silent Bob offers an incredulous look, as if to say, "He's

ten years old."

Silent Bob kind of nods.

Silent Bob sighs and stands. He climbs over Jay into the

aisle and stands in front of the child. He looks at him and

registers doubt. He looks back to Jay, who waves him on.

Silent Bob steels himself, looks back to the kid and reaches

for his game. The Child emits a high-pitched scream and starts

punching himself in the head. Silent Bob dives back into his

seat, trying to look nonchalant. The Child stops crying. Jay

looks at Silent Bob.

EXT. HIGHWAY--DAY

The bus pulls over by the side of the road.

INT. BUS--DAY

The Bus Driver heads down the aisle toward the back of the

bus, followed by pissed-off PASSENGERS.

The Bus Driver bangs on the bathroom door and shouts.

No answer. The Bus Driver bangs on the door harder.

The door handle turns, the door swings wide, and massive

amounts of smoke suddenly billow through the back of the

bus. The smoke clears to reveal Jay and Silent Bob squeezed

into the bathroom, holding a massive joint.

EXT. ROADSIDE--LATER

As the bus pulls away, Jay and Silent Bob are revealed, left

behind.

Silent Bob nods. Jay sticks out his thumb and starts hitching.

EXT. ROADSIDE--LATER

Jay and Bob are walking backwards, hitching still.

Jay and Bob look behind them. There's a GUY hitching as well.

The GUY holds out his sign to them. It reads: Will Give Head

For Ride.

Jay and Bob look at him for a long beat. Then--

Jay draws a line on the ground with his foot.

A TRUCK starts to pull over to the side of the road. The Guy

points to it, as if to say "See?" The passenger-side door

opens. The Guy climbs into the truck and closes the door. He

looks out the window at Jay and Bob.

Through the windshield, Jay and Silent Bob see the Guy go

face-first into the TRUCK DRIVER'S lap. The Truck Drivers

smiles, and the truck takes off, roaring down the road.

Jay and Silent Bob watch the truck disappear. Then, a CAR

pulls up. The NUN driving rolls down the passenger side window

and leans toward them.

INT. CAR--LATER

The NUN drives, smiling. Jay and Silent Bob sit in the back

seat, huddled close together, their eyes glued on the Nun.

Silent Bob shakes his head "no" to Jay. Jay shrugs and climbs

up front.

Jay looks back at Silent Bob. Silent Bob shakes his head

"no." Jay shrugs them flips his hair over his shoulder, and

starts to bend down.

Jay disappears below the dash, The Nun goes wide-eyed.

EXT. ROADSIDE--DAY

The Nun's car screeched to the side of the road. Jay gets

kicked our of the front seat by the screaming Nun. Silent

Bob rushes out too, and the car races off. Jay's wipes his

mouth. He pulls a long curly hair from between his teeth.

EXT. HIGHWAY--NIGHT

Jay and Bob continue hitching.

A familiar-looking VAN pulls up in the other side of the

raid, The horn beeps.  Jay and Bob look at each other, shrug,

and race across the street, get in. The van pulls off.

INT. VAN--NIGHT

Jay and Bob sit in the back of the can and stare at--

A clean-cut GUY, a Bookish woman in glasses, a red headed

Beauty, a stoner DUDE, and a GREAT DANE.

Jay looks at Silent Bob.

The Gang look to Jay and Bob.

INT. VAN--WEED VISION

As Jay and Bob toke up, we go all SLO-MO and 70's freaky

(with the image seeming to SWIM). Through their stoned haze,

we see old-school witches, skeletons, and ghouls swirling

about their heads--the latter of which gets his mask taken

off to reveal a man inside a costume.

Jay and Bob look at the gang, then take a hit off their joint

and look back.  Suddenly, the gang's engaged in total

debauchery: the Dude rides the windshield while the Guy

cackles insanely, blindfolded by his neckerchief. Bookish

and Beauty are in their underwear, making out with each other.

The Great Dane looks at Jay and Bob and says--

The Great Dane rolls over, revealing its RED THING sticking

way out of its sheath. It's monstrous. Jay and Bob go wide-

eyed.

Jay and Bob smile and pass out.

We cut back to the gang, who now appear as they did prior to

Weed-Vision. They stare at the O.C. Jay and Bob.

INT. SEEDY MOTEL BATHROOM--NIGHT

Jay lies in a bathtub full of ice, screaming. There's a scar

on his back.

EXT. KANSAS CITY PARK--DAY

Jay wakes up suddenly, screaming. He startles Bob awake as

well, as he clutched at this back lifting his shirt to see

the scar. It's not there.

Bob looks around, and then locks on something O.C. He points,

and Jay looks, smiles widely, and nods.

EXT. MOOBY'S FAST FOOD JOINT--DAY

An ESTABLISHING SHOT of the fast food eatery, as Jay and Bob

enter.

INT. MOOBY'S FAST FOOD JOINT--SAME

As the pair head for the counter, Jay notices a public

INTERNET TERMINAL. He tugs at Silent Bob's arm.

Bob shrugs, heading for the terminal. He inserts a dollar

and types, following it up with a mouse click. The pair look

at the screen and go wide-eyed.

Jay and Silent Bob look at each other, wide-eyed.

Silent Bob starts typing as Jay dictates.

Silent Bob finishes typing and presses "Return". He and Jay

nod at each other, then head over to the counter line, looking

up at the menu board.

As Jay finishes speaking, he looks to the O.C. doors and

freezes.  A gorgeous GIRL walks through the front doors, all

in SLO-MO to the tune of Prince's The Most Beautiful Girl in

the World. She's bathed in light, glowing.

She bats her eyelashes, gliding toward us.

Jay is mouth-agape wide eyed. Silent Bob looks at him, then

at the O.C.Girl. He slowly waves his hand in front of Jay's

eyes, getting zero response.

JAY'S POV

The Girl smiles at us. His POV goes from her face, down to

her breasts, then down to her crotch.

Jay moves past Silent Bob and meets the Girl in the middle

of the floor. He embraces her and lands a long, sweet kiss

on her mouth. After a beat, he starts fumbling like a teenager

to get to second base under her shirt, totally incongruous

with the music. The Girl kindly tries to deter him.

But it's just a fantasy. Jay's still standing there next to

Silent Bob, but he is sporting a huge BONER. Silent Bob rolls

his eyes. He grabs a soda cup off the counter and sticks it

over Jay's boner, just as the Girl joins them in line. She

smiles at the zombified Jay.

Silent Bob pokes Jay, who shakes of his daze.

Jay and Bob look past Justice to see a VAN with three other

gorgeous GIRLS stretching outside of it, throwing their hair

around, looking incredibly sexy.

Without looking at Silent Bob, Jay quietly says to him--

INT. VAN--DAY

Jay and Bob climb into the can, getting odd looks from the

other Girls, Justice follows them in, tossing the fast food

to her friends.

Chrissy lunges toward Jay, pulling a knife.

Sissy stops Chrissy, shoving a burger into her hands.

Suddenly, Jay and Bob are parted by BRENT, who's getting

into the van.

Sissy, Missy, and Chrissy immediately go from disgusted to

sweet and airy, totally switching characters.

The very white Brent puts his hand out to be slapped by Jay

and Silent Bob.

Jay and Bob look at each other and roll their eyes.

EXT. HIGHWAY--DAY

The van drives down the road. We hear singing from inside.

INT. VAN--DAY

Brent strums a guitar and sings, as the Girls and Jay and

Bob listen, rolling eyes.

Everyone lets out a whoop, except Jay and Bob.

Jay and Silent Bob eyeball Brent, until Justice distracts

them.

Jay sees this and his eyes flare over the competition.  After

a beat, he relaxes.

Brent joins Jay, strumming his guitar. Jay addresses him

confidentially.

EXT. HIGHWAY--DAY

The side door of the van slides open and Brent gets hurled

out of the moving vehicle. Jay throws his guitar at him as

well, yelling and flipping the bird as the van drives off.

EXT. HIGHWAY--LATER

The van drives down the road.

INT. VAN--SAME

Missy drives. Sissy sits in the passenger seat. Chrissy kneels

between them.

In the back, Justice studies some blueprints. Jay joins her,

and she quickly folds them up.

Bob blushes, Jay doesn't like that Justice's attention has

strayed.

Just then, a little JAY DEVIL appears on Jay's left shoulder.

Suddenly another little JAY DEVIL appears in Jay's right

shoulder.

They disappear in little puffs of smoke and Jay shoves his

hand down his pants, getting ready to whip out his dick,

when suddenly a little JAY ANGEL appears on his shoulder,

rubbing a swollen jaw.

Jay thinks, then nods "Yes." The Jay Angel rolls his eyes,

and slaps him.

Jay looks to Silent Bob. Silent Bob looks from Jay's hand in

his pants to Jay and shakes his head "no," sternly. Jay

withdraws his hand from his pants. The Jay Angel nods,

satisfied.

Justice smiles. Jay tries to recover.

Jay takes Justice's hand and kisses it.

He winks at her, smiles and moves to the other side of the

can, near Silent Bob.  He's still smiling at Justice and

winking when he looks to Silent Bob who stares at him blankly,

then imitates Jay's hand-kissing back at him, Jay scowls.

EXT. CONVENIENCE STORY--DAY

The van pulls up and all pile out, stretching. The Girls

head toward the store.  Justice calls over to Jay and Silent

Bob.

Justice smiles and heads inside. Jay and Silent Bob study

the front of the foreign convenience store. They look for a

place to lean, try a few spots out, then settle into one.

After a beat--

Silent Bob shakes his head "Yeah."

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE--DAY

Justice is at the microwave when she's suddenly surrounded

by the other girls.

Justice offers Chrissy a cold glance,

Chrissy grabs Missy forcefully and the pair make out, hot

and heavy in the middle of the convenience store. Other

customers regard them wide-eyed.

Chrissy drags Missy off. Justice and Sissy watch them go.

EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE--DAY

A GIRL walks past Jay and Bob, heading out of the store.

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE--DAY

Sissy continues to confront Justice.

Justice looks out the window and smiles, seeing Jay dancing

alongside Bob.

EXT. CONVENIENCE STORE--SAME

Jay's dancing still, but now we hear what he's SINGING to

Silent Bob.

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE--SAME

Sissy eyeballs Justice, who's still looking out at Jay.

Justice looks at Sissy. Sissy nods at her. Justice looks

back out at Jay.

INT. VAN--DAY

Justice talks to Jay and Silent Bob.

Silent Bob glares at Jay.

She smiles at Jay, touches his chin and heads to the front

of the van. Jay plays it cool until she's out of sight, then

humps silent Bob's leg like a dog.

Jay looks at Silent Bob, who clearly disapproves.

Up front, Justice talks to Sissy, while Missy drives.

Justice eyes Sissy, then slumps in her seat.

EXT. PROVASIK MEDICAL LABS--NIGHT

The Van rolls up across the street from the Provasik Labs,

parking in front of another large building.

INT. VAN--SAME

Jay and Silent bob get out, along with Justice. They wear

Ninja masks. Missy and Chrissy follow.

Chrissy lunges at Jay, Missy holds her back, dragging Chrissy

away.

Sissy jumps out of the van, holding the video camera, aiming

it at Jay and Bob.

She elbows Sissy.

Jay proceeds to make some pussy-eating faces. Justice shakes

her head at Sissy, who snaps the camera closed and smiles.

Sissy climbs back into the van.

Justice smiles at Jay, then kisses him sweetly on the lips.

Justice smiles and pulls Jay's mask down. He heads off,

revealing Silent Bob behind him, lips puckered, handing in

midair. Jay reached back into the frame, pulling Bob out.

Justice watches them go.

Justice climbs back into the van.

INT. VAN--SAME

Justice sits, glaring at Sissy.

Sissy takes the tape out of the camera and hands it off to

Missy, beside whom is a bag full of high-tech equipment.

EXT. PROVASIK MEDICAL LABS--NIGHT

Jay and Silent bob tuck-and-roll across the front lawn,

stopping at the building. Silent Bob pulls a GRAPPLING GUN

out of his coat. He fires it into the air as Jay quickly

gives the "metal" sign, and the pair are lifted out-of-frame.

INT. PROVASIK MEDICAL LABS--NIGHT

It's dead quiet and still. Then, the pair smash through a

window, landing in the floor in a ball. They lift their Ninja

hoods. Jay glares at Silent Bob.

INT. VAN--NIGHT

Missy peers through binoculars out the window.

EXT. VAN--NIGHT

The quartet piles out of the van, and we get our first look

at them: sexily geared up for action, wearing all black.

They head for a SEPARATE BUILDING.  Stopping at the front

door.

Sissy gestures elaborately to Missy, and Missy gestures

elaborately back, racing away into the night. Justice offers

Sissy a look.

Chrissy sticks a box on the door and presses a button. On a

digital readout, numbers roll until they stop on four

different digits. The door lock CLICKS open.

Justice blows her off. Sissy enters the building, followed

closely by Chrissy.  Justice lingers at the door, taking one

last look back at the Provasik Building, fretting for Jay

and Bob.

Justice heads inside. We PAN up to reveal a sign that reads:

BOULDER DIAMOND EXCHANGE.

INT. PROVASIK TESTING ROOM--NIGHT

Jay and Bob stand there, looking around the room.

It's lines with cages, all of which contain sad-looking

ANIMALS.  A tear forms in silent Bob's eye. Jay rolls his

eyes and hits him.

Silent Bob nods and clicks on a flashlight. The pair wade

through the cages. Jay stops at an EMERGENCY BOX hanging on

the wall. Inside it, there's a pistol.

Jay elbows the glass, breaking it. He takes the gun out and

tosses it to Bob.

Silent Bob rolls he eyes and sticks the gun in his coat. The

pair look through the cages, until HEAR the distinct SOUND

OF A MONKEY. Jay directs Silent Bob's flashlight to the cage

from where the sound emitted. He smiles.

INT. BOULDER DIAMOND EXCHANGE--NIGHT

The three Girls stand at the end of a large hallway. At the

other end is a glass case, full of DIAMONDS.

Sissy pulls and aerosol can from her utility belt and sprays

the air in the hallway. She watches the decibel monitor,

which rises only slightly at the sound of the spray. Suddenly,

within the mist, laser beams become apparent.

Sissy hands the decibel monitor to Chrissy and takes a few

steps back, shaking her hands to limber up. She then runs

forward and does an impressive series of flips down the

hallway, not touching a single laser beam.

Chrissy checks the decibel monitor, which rises only slightly.

Once Sissy's flipping comes to a stop at the other end of

the hallway near the Diamond case, she makes a hand gesture

to Justice. Justice nods, and proceeds to do the same series

of flips down the hallway, not tripping the alarm.

Chrissy checks the decibel monitor, which rises only slightly.

Justice lands beside Sissy, and then Sissy gestures to

Chrissy.

Chrissy tosses the decibel monitor over the laser beams,

Sissy catches it, and the monitor rises only slightly.

Then, Chrissy proceeds with her series of flips, which are

even more impressive than the other two, including running

up walls and pushing into handstand flips.  When she passes

the last laser beam, she lands between Sissy and Justice,

arms in the air like a gymnast. Then, she lets out a loud,

manly FART.

The decibel monitor goes red and an alarm starts RINGING

through the building.

Sissy shutters the glass surrounding the Diamonds. She ours

them into a bag, and races back down the hallway, followed

by Justice and Chrissy.

EXT. BOULDER DIAMOND EXCHANGE--NIGHT

The Girls emerge from the Diamond Exchange, just as Missy

pulls up in a CONVERTIBLE.

Missy tosses a metal box to Chrissy, who catches it and races

toward the van, while Sissy and Justice pile into the

convertible.

Chrissy attaches the metal box to the side of the van.

The girls pull up in the convertible and Chrissy jumps into

the car with them.

The convertible screeches away, leaving the can sitting there.

The metal has magnetically attached to the side is counting

down from two minutes.

INT. PROVASIK TESTING LAB--NIGHT

Jay and Bob carry a large canvas bag between them. Something

seems to move inside it. The head for the exit, but Silent

bob hesitates, offering a sad look to the animals in all the

cages. Jay hits him.

Silent Bob half-gestures to the cages, forlorn. Jay shakes

his head frustrated.

Silent bob offers Jay a look.

EXT. PROVASIK MEDICAL LABS--NIGHT

The front doors burst open, spilling out Jay, Silent Bob

(carrying their bag), and HUNDREDS OF ANIMALS--cats, dogs,

birds, rabbits. All race off into the night.

Jay and Bob race toward the van. Jay screams at it.

Suddenly, Jay and Bob stop dead in their tracks.

Three COP CARS screech up, the van between them and Jay and

Bob. The COPS leap out of their cruisers, guns drawn. Jay

looks to Bob, pissed

The counter on the device attached to the van hits "0," and

the van BLOWS UP.  Jay and Bob get thrown backwards in one

direction, the Cops in the other.  On all fours, Jay looks

at the burning shell of the van, a tear forming in his eye.

We crane up from him as he bellows--

Silent Bob grabs Jay and drags him out of frame, still

carrying the bag.

EXT. FEDERAL WILDLIFE MARSHAL'S OFFICE--DAY

We start on a sign on the door that reads: Federal Wildlife

Marshal, Colorado Field Office, then pull back to see a DEPUTY

opening the door and heading inside.

INT. FEDERAL WILDLIFE MARSHAL'S OFFICE--DAY

The Deputy enters just as a FAX is coming through at an

operations board. He rips it off, reading it. His eyes go

wide.

INT. BATHROOM--SAME

MARSHAL WILLENHOLLY sits on the bowl, staring at Four Legged

Law-Man magazine, eyeing it lustily. Below frame, he jerks

off.

As he climaxes, a ganging at the door disrupts him.

Willenholly emerges from the bathroom, holding the magazine.

There's a massive wet spot on the front of his pants.

The Deputy looks at the stain on Willenholly's pants, then

at Willenholly.

EXT. PROVASIK MEDICAL LABS--DAY

There are FIRE TRUCKS all over the place now. The burned out

van is being poured over by Cops. Just then, Willenholly

pulls up on a MOPED. He parks it and surveys the wreckage.

Willenholly rips down the Velcro patch on his jacket,

revealing a badge.

Willenholly and the Cop look at the camera. Then, another

COP joins them.

The COPS now chatter amongst themselves, to the effect of

"Yeah--It could mean that too--He's got a point--,"etc.

Willenholly rubs his temples.

They begin chattering amongst themselves again. Willenholly

looks at them all, defeated. He starts to cry.

Another COP joins Willenholly, carrying a large, fat envelope.

INT. OFFICE--DAY

Willenholly and the Cops stare at the O.C. TV, shocked, as

the video ends.

EXT. UTAH ROADSIDE--DAY

Jay and Silent Bob sit close to each other, staring at--

SUZANNE (the ORANGUTAN)--who sits on a log across from them,

staring back.

Suzanne covers her eyes with her hands suddenly. Jay and

Silent Bob, startle, with Jay leaping behind Silent Bob and

pulling back as if he's going to strike.

Silent Bob offers the ape a weak wave. Suzanne drops her

hands from her face and waves back. Jay cranes his neck to

see over silent Bob.

Suzanne nods. Jay steps out from behind Bob. They state at

the ape.

Suzanne offer them a "raspberry." Spitting as if the comment

was ridiculous. Jay and Silent Bob react with surprise at

this.

Suzanne holds her nose, as if to say, "Congo stunk." Silent

Bob smiles in agreement and amusement. Jay looks at him,

stung.

Jay looks around the woods, formulating a thought. Silent

Bob moves toward the ape, extending his hand to shake hers.

JAY'S DELUSION: We enter into JAY'S HEAD and see--

INT. LAB--DAY

We PAN over from a chimp in a chemist's coat measuring liquids

in a pair of beakers to a chimp at a drafting table sketching

blueprints for an insidious war machine. An orangutan shakes

hands with a group of five well-dressed men, one of which

looks like the Cigarette Smoking Man from the X-Files.

EXT. BALCONY--DAY

A monkey dressed like Mussolini addresses a huge crowd of

apes, who wave fists in the air.

EXT. FIELD--DAY

Randal leads a pack of humans racing through a cornfield,

and is shot in the neck. He collapses, revealing a GORILLA

on horseback holding a rifle. Two other Gorillas throw a net

over him.

INT. LAB--DAY

Cornelius and Zera-looking chimps dissect the brain of a

living, screaming, Dante.

EXT. QUICK STOP--DAY

The Quick Stop is overrun by vines in a jungle like

atmosphere. Monkeys exit the store carrying bunches of

bananas. The sign now reads: Ape Stop

EXT. BEACH--DAY

We start on a FULL SHOT of Jay on the beach, looking up,

then SNAP ZOOM OUT to REVEAL Jay kneeling before the beach

buried Statue of Liberty, screaming, his arms raised.

EXT. UTAH ROADSIDE--DAY

Another close-up of Jay's painted face. Behind him, Suzanne

and Silent Bob are playing patty-cake. Jay eyes Suzanne

angrily.

Jay turns and rushes Suzanne, ferociously.

Jay trips on a root poking out of the ground and hits the

dirt. Suzanne then goes over to Jay, pulls his face to hers,

and kisses him on the lips.

Silent Bob helps Jay to his feet.

INT. TV NEWS STATION--DAY

An ANCHORMAN addresses the camera.

A graphic of the C.L.I.T. logo appears beside him, nailing

home the joke.

A VIDEO CAPTURE of JAY and SILENT BOB from pre-break--in

appears on screen.

On screen is the C.L.I.T. Logo. A digitized voice narrates.

The logo gives way to the video of Jay and Bob that Sissy

shot before the Provasik break-in. Jay's yelling into the

camera.

Coming out of the video footage, the Anchorman shakes his

head, chilled.

PULL OUT to reveal Willenholly beside the Anchorman.

INT. POTZEK'S INC. OFFICE--NIGHT

On the TV screen is Willenholly and the video capture of Jay

and Silent Bob.  Holden looks up from his drawing table,

shocked.

INT. QUICK STOP--NIGHT

From behind the register, Dante and Randal stare at the TV,

slack-jawed.

EXT. SEEDY MOTEL ROOMS--SAME

On the second-floor terrace of a run-down, roadside motel,

Sissy, Missy and Chrissy dance in their undies and drink

champagne. On the first floor terrace below, Justice leans

against the open sliding glass door, watching the news report

on a TV inside the room with the volume turned way up.

Justice turns the TV off and yells up to Sissy.

Chrissy dances away with Missy, heading inside. Sissy rolls

her eyes.

Sissy dumps the bag of diamonds over the side of the terrace.

They rain down on Justice below. Just then a PIZZA DELIVERY

GUY approaches the lower terrace, carrying a stack of pizzas.

INT. DINER--DAY

Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne sit at a booth, eating. Jay

chews a burger while Silent Bob eats pancakes and Suzanne

digs into a banana split.

Silent bob and Suzanne are oblivious, digging into their

food.

Jay and Bob freeze and go wild-eyed for a beat. Then--

EXT. DINER--DAY

There's a few COP CARS outside, and the SHERIFF is yelling

at the diner through his bullhorn. Beside him are the other

COPS.

Suddenly Willenholly rushes up, dramatically ducking behind

the car, gun drawn.

INT. DINER--DAY

Jay, Suzanne, and Silent Bob peer over the top of their booth,

like scared rats.

Silent Bob looks to Jay, shocked.

Bob pulls Suzanne close to him, welling up with tears. Jay

rolls his eyes.

Suzanne shakes her head "no." Bob points to her, as if she's

strengthening his point.

Jay's eyes fall on a scared FAMILY in a nearby booth. There's

a little kid (around five or so), and he's wearing a hooded

sweatshirt and a baseball cap.

EXT. DINER--DAY

Willenholly's on the bullhorn, yelling at the diner. The

Sheriff looks on.

Jay and Silent Bob emerge from the diner, with Suzanne between

them (they're holding her raised hands). She's now dressed

up in the sweatshirt and jeans the kid was wearing in the

diner, with the baseball cap pulled down over her face.

It's a pretty piss-poor disguise.

From behind the cop car, the Sheriff looks to Willenholly.

Jay seizes on the idea. Silent Bob nods fervently.

Jay is whispering to Silent Bob, still vexed by--

Jay and Silent Bob look at each other, shocked. They look

back out at Willenholly, who's yards away. Jay points at

himself, as if to say, "Me?"

Jay, silent Bob and Suzanne head off down the road.

Willenholly and all watch them go. The Sheriff is livid.

Willenholly suddenly freezes, thinking. He looks to the

Sheriff.

EXT. ROAD--DAY

Jay, Silent Bob and Suzanne are laughing.

GUNSHOTS RING OUT, and bullets whiz by the trio, who are now

in full panic mode.

Willenholly and the Cops race after them, firing.

Jay, Bob and Suzanne race away, ducking bullets.

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

The trio race across what looks like a bridge (but isn't),

shots still ringing out. Jay spots a manhole. He points at

it, screaming.

Silent Bob pops the cover off, With bullets ricocheting all

around them, Jay leaps into the manhole.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL

Jay lands in a sewer tunnel (like in The Fugitive). Suzanne

lands on top of him.

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

Bullets hitting the pavement around him, Silent bob dives

into the sewer grate as well, but--

INT. SEWER TUNNEL

Silent Bob gets stuck. Jay rolls his eyes.

Silent Bob struggles while Jay and Suzanne try to pull him

through the hole.

EXT. DAM ROAD--SAME

CLOSER on the running Willenholly and Sheriff.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--SAME

Jay and Suzanne pull with all their might. Bob strains.

EXT. DAM ROAD--SAME

TIGHT on the Sheriff, as he squints to aim.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--SAME

TIGHT on Silent Bob bellowing.

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

The Sheriff's gun fires.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--SAME

Jay and Suzanne fall backwards, as Silent Bob pops through.

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

The bullet ricochets off the curb, as Silent Bob's feet slip

through.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--SAME

Jay, Silent Bob, and Suzanne are in various states of

collapse. Jay and Bob look up at the hole.

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

Willenholly and the Sheriff arrive at the manhole.

Willenholly starts rolling up his sleeves as the sheriff

looks on.

Willenholly embraces the Sheriff.

Willenholly then climbs into the sewer, disappearing. The

Cops look at the Sheriff for a beat, who heads O.C. saying--

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--DAY

TIGHT on Jay, Bob, and Suzanne, looking into the distance,

bathed by natural light. We HEAR the loud sounds of water

rushing.

PULL BACK to reveal Jay, Silent Bob and Suzanne standing at

the precipice of the sewer tunnel that pokes out of a DAM.

Water rushed below.

Willenholly aims his gun at the trio's backs.

Our heroes comply, but Jay speaks.

Jay and Silent Bob face Willenholly and kneel. But Suzanne's

still looking out of the dam.

TIGHT on Suzanne, who's looking down at the raging water

below. Her brow hardens with purpose.

TIGHT on Suzanne's right hand grabbing Jay's right hand.

TIGHT on Suzanne's left hand grabbing Bob's left hand.

Suzanne leaps forward at us, pulling Jay and Silent Bob

backwards.

EXT. DAM--DAY

Suzanne leaps from the mouth of the tunnel, dragging Jay and

Bob with her.

INT. SEWER TUNNEL--DAY

Willenholly goes wide-eyed, holstering his gun.

He races toward the mouth of the tunnel and leaps out as

well.

EXT. DAM--DAY

As Willenholly plummets, he passes Suzanne hanging by her

feet off a pipe that pokes out from beneath the mouth of the

tunnel. She's hanging upside down, holding Jay and Silent

Bob's hands.

EXT. DAM BOTTOM--DAY

Willenholly plummets toward the water below and ker-splashes

into the drink.

EXT. DAM--DAY

Suzanne has pulled Jay and Silent Bob back into the mouth of

the tunnel.

Silent Bob lifts Suzanne over the tunnel onto the--

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

--pavement near the manhole. She sits there, looking down.

EXT. DAM--DAY

Silent Bob lifts Jay over the top of the tunnel toward the

road,

EXT. DAM ROAD--DAY

Suzanne sits by the side of the road. A car pulls into the

shot.

Jay and Silent Bob climb over the cliff onto the highway

just in time to see--

The passenger door slamming on a TRUCK with Los Angeles plates

and a sign that reads CRITTERS OF HOLLYWOOD. Suzanne is

looking out the back window waving.  Jay and Bob leap to

their feet, chasing after the truck.

The truck speeds away in the distance. Jay and Silent Bob

stand there, panting.

Silent Bob indicates themselves.

Silent Bob mimes that they should go after Suzanne.

Silent Bob mimes in the direction the car went. Jay stares

at him.

Bob starts an elaborate pantomime. Jay tries to guess what

he's saying.

Bob's on the verge of tears, trying to mime out his message.

Silent Bob grabs Jay and screams into his face.

Bob releases Jay, breathing heavily and storms off in the

direction of the car went. Jay watched him go for a beat,

then follows, muttering under his breath--

EXT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE--DAY

AN ESTABLISHING SHOT.

INT. SHERIFF'S OFFICE--DAY

The Sheriff and his men stand around, eating donuts, laughing.

The Station doors slam open, and Willenholly enters, soaking

wet. All the Cops stare at him.

EXT. HOLLYWOOD--MONTAGE

We take a quick visual tour of the city, including the sign,

the line of front of Krispy Kreme, the line in front of Coffee

Bean and Tea Leaf, the Simpson star in the Walk- of- Fame,

the Rocky and Bullwinkle statue, the Beverly Center, Jerry's

Famous Deli, the Hollywood and Vine sign, Mann's Chinese

Theatre, the Star Wars footprints outside of Mann's, the

Chateau Marmont, people on cell phones, Trashy Lingerie.

HOOKERS propositioning a potential JOHN, and finally--

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD--DAY

We start on the street sign, and PAN DOWN to a JEEP WRANGLER

that pulls up. A gorgeous woman in sunglasses drives, with

Silent Bob sitting in the back seat.  After a beat, Jay pops

up from under the dash, wiping his mouth, looking around.

The Woman sighs, and zips up her pants. Jay and Bob hop out

and wave to the Woman as the car pulls away. Bob offers Jay

a look.

Two HOOKERS approach them.

The Hookers look at him, dumbfounded, Then--

EXT. HOLLYWOOD BLVD.--LATER

Jay and Silent Bob walk.

They pass a DEALER leaning against a wall, trying to make a

sale.

CLOSE ON THE CARD.  It reads: UNITED JERSEY BROTHERHOOD OF

DEALERS, LOCAL 408.

There's a graphic of a stoner beside it.

They shake hands, slapping each other on the back like Union

brothers.

Jay exhales. The Dealer stares at him for a beat.

INT. E! ENTERTAINMENT NEWS--DAY

After E! news logo plays. CUT TO STEVE KMETKO in studio.

Jules Asner is in front of the Miramax Studios main gate.

BACK TO STEVE in the E! Studio.

BACK TO JULES at Miramax Studios.

As Jules speaks, Jay and Bob walk into the frame behind her,

looking up at the studio sign. They then notice the camera

and start waving behind Jules.

INT. SEEDY MOTEL ROOM--DAY

Justice goes wide-eyed, seeing Jay and Bob on E! She hops

out of her seat.

Justice looks around, panicky. Her eyes fall on--

The diamonds, sitting atop the satchel on the table.

Justice looks at the diamonds, then the TV screen. She thinks

for a beat, then--

She pours the diamonds into the satchel, and shoves it in

her pocket.

INT. SEEDY MOTEL BEDROOM--DAY

The door slowly opens in the dark bedroom, and Justice crawls

to the bedside table, reaching for a set of keys. In the

bed, Missy and Chrissy make out under the sheets, moaning.

Sissy's banging the Pizza Delivery Guy against the vanity.

Justice grabs the keys, leaving a note in their place. As

she crawls back out, we PUSH IN on the note, which reads:

SORRY, GUYS--BUT I LOVE HIM.

EXT. SEEDY MOTEL PARKING LOT--DAY

The convertible skids out, taking off.

INT. SEEDY MOTEL HALLWAY--DAY

There's a loud scream, then Sissy, Missy, and Chrissy rush

down the stairs (in varied states of undress and sheet-wrap).

Wiping their mouths. Sissy holds Justices's note.

Sissy and Missy race back up the stairs. Chrissy stands there

still, shrugs, then digs her hand into her panties.

Chrissy races back up the stairs.

EXT. MIRAMAX STUDIOS-DAY

The E! NEWS CREW packs up. Jay and Silent Bob study the main

gate. They watch the SECURITY GUARD approach a car that's

just pulled up. The Guard checks the driver's pass, then

lifts the gate to let the car through. Jay looks to Bob.

Bob nods, After a beat, the pair tear-ass past the guard

booth. The GUARD leaps out of the booth, blowing a whistle

and giving chase.

EXT. STUDIO LOT--DAY

Jay and Bob race around the building toward what looks like

an open alley then smash into it, falling down. The open

alley is a background painting that's being moved by some

SCENICS. Jay and Bob get up, shaking off the impact.

The SECURITY GUARD catches up to them now, grabbing them by

their shoulders, spinning them around.

The Security Guard stops, looks around, then releases them,

reaching into his pants.

Silent Bob looks at Jay, wide-eyed and scared.

Silent Bob wells up with tears, slowly dropping to his knees,

reaching for Jay's pants. The Security guard bends down low

to watch at crotch-level. Suddenly, Jay hammers his two fists

into the Security Guard's neck, knocking him out.  Silent

Bob falls into a sitting position on the ground, relieved.

Jay looks at him.

Silent Bob points behind Jay, at the SOUNDSTAGE they're in

front of. There's a LINE OF PEOPLE waiting at the door.

Silent Bob shakes his head "no," wide-eyed as Jay heads off.

When Jay's out of frame, Silent bob shrugs like, "Yeah--I

guess I was."

EXT. SOUNDSTAGE--DAY

Jay and Bob approach the line, as an A.D. calls out to the

crowd.

The A.D. starts leading the crowd in. Jay and Bob blend in

and follow inside.

EXT. HIGHWAY--DAY

An official-looking car tears down the road.

INT. CAR--SAME

Willenholly drives, dialing his cell phone.

INT. AGENT ENMARTY'S OFFICE--SAME

AGENT SID ENMARTY works at his desk.

Two other AGENTS rush in, chuckling. All gather around the

phone as Sid presses the speaker button.

BEGIN CROSS-CUTTING WITH WILLENHOLLY.

The agents crack up, stifling their laughter.

The Agents crack up. Willenholly's catching on.

The Agents crack up even more, Willenholly's pissed.

The Agents laugh hysterically, pounding the desk, Willenholly

tears up, enraged.

Willenholly throws his cell phone across the car, the mocking

laughter still emitting from it. Willenholly cries.

EXT. MIRAMAX STUDIOS LOT--DAY

The Red Light FLASHES outside the soundstage.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE--SAME

Jay and silent Bob stand amidst a line of EXTRAS. Silent Bob

looks O.C. goes wide-eyed, and pokes Jay, pointing O.C. Jay

looks and sees--

A COLLEGE BAR set that looks like the College Bar from Good

Will Hunting, complete with CLARK (the stuffy college jerk).

MATT DAMON stands off to the side, loosening up for the scene.

BEN AFFLECK calls to the O.C. DIRECTOR.

Gus Van Sant sits off to the side, counting a stack of money.

He just shrugs.

They take a beat and look at the camera. Then--

Jay turns excitedly to Bob.

The A.D. grabs Jay and Bob by the arms and drags them onto

the set, placing them near Ben and Matt in the scene.

Bob goes a little wide-eyed. Jay smiles at him.

Jay and Bob eye Ben and Matt fiercely, Ben and Matt are

oblivious.

Jay and Bob freeze and look at each other, then O.C.

The Clapper/Loader holds a clapboard in front of Ben's face.

It does indeed, read: Good Will Hunting 2: Hunting Season.

The Clapper/Loader claps the board closed and races off. Ben

looks to Gus.

Gus looks up from counting his money.

Ben shakes his head and then starts the scene with CLARK.

In the background, Jay and Silent Bob get bored and head out

of the shot. After a beat, they get pushed back in by the

A.D.

Matt/Will turns away angrily, facing Ben/Chuckie, looking

downwards, steaming.

Matt/Will spins to face Clark with two huge guns in his hands.

He blows Clark away, Jay and Bob hit the deck. Matt/Will

stands there, guns smoking.

Suddenly the door to the soundstage swings open, and the

Security guard Jay knocked out rushes in, followed by other

SECURITY GUARDS who comb the place.

The Security Guard sees Jay and Bob crouched behind Ben, He

points, screaming.

Ben and Matt turn to Jay and Bob, Jay smiles.

Jay and Bob then race out-of-frame, closely followed by the

Security guards.  Matt head off, arms thrown in the air.

EXT. SOUNDSTAGE--DAY

Jay and Bob rush out, pulling a bench in front of the door,

blocking it. They race ten feet to another soundstage across

from them and head inside a door.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE--SAME

Jay and Silent Bob rush in to see--

Wes Craven getting ready to direct a scene with a familiar-

looking GHOSTFACE KILLER and SHANNEN DOHERTY. The

Clapper/Loader's clapboard reads: Scream 4

The Killer chases Shannen around the room, falling over stuff,

until she hits him with a lamp, knocking him out.

Shannen pulls the mask off the short performer to reveal

SUZANNE.

Jay and Silent Bob go wide-eyed.

Shannen heads over to Wes, holding the mask.

Jay and Silent Bob rush in, grab Suzanne.

They rush out. West shrugs to Shannen.

Security Guards race through, chasing after the exited pair.

EXT. LOT--DAY

Jay and Bob race through the lot, with Bob carrying Suzanne.

On a fake New York city street, another movie is shooting.

The trio, bob and weave through the shoot, until--

At the end of the alley, a set GOLF CART pulls up, and four

Security Guards pile out, forming a human wall, blocking

their path. Jay and Bob stop dead, looking back to see the

other Security Guards gaining.

Just then, a P.A. on a bike pulls up nearby. He ditches the

bike and grabs papers from the large hanging basket in front.

Jay and Bob look at each other, race over to the bike, and

jump on, putting Suzanne in the basket. They start pedaling

away furiously, closely followed by the Security Guard posse.

Silent Bob peddles like mad, racing toward the Golf Cart.

Bob pops a wheelie and the Bike races up the front of the

vehicle, taking flight,

Below, the Security Guards stare in awe as--

Jay and Silent Bob atop the bike--with Suzanne in the front

basket--go past a moon (on a billboard, on the side of a

soundstage) a la E.T.

Jay and Bob look down, then at each other. They smile. Then

they look ahead and let out a scream.

The bike crashes through a window in the side of a Soundstage

Building.

INT. DRESSING ROOM--DAY

The Bike lands, and Jay and Bob, and Suzanne go tumbling

onto the floor covered in glass. They look up to see.

JAMES VAN DER BEEK AND JASON BIGGS dressed as Jay and Silent

Bob, looking down as them.

Jay and Bob look at their twins, then at each other.

James and Jason help Jay and Silent Bob to their feet. All

stare at one another, perplexed,

Then--

Jay mimes a series of sexual maneuvers. Jason and James look

on, bewildered.

Jay starts miming again, and suddenly stops, staring at James,

blown away.

Jay and Bob stare at them, blankly. Then Jay puts up his

finger, indicating they should wait a minute. He gets into a

huddle with Silent Bob and Suzanne.

Silent Bob nods at Jay, then Suzanne. Suzanne heads off,

leaving Jay and Bob to huddle.

Suzanne approaches them.

Suzanne pulls Jason and James out of the frame.

While Jay and Silent Bob continue to huddle, the sounds of a

beating are heard, O.C.

Jay and Bob spin to face Jason and James--only to go wide-

eyed. Suzanne stands atop the fallen actors, who are bloodied

and beaten and knocked out cold. She holds her hands skyward,

clasped like a champion.

Suddenly there's a banging at the door of the dressing room.

EXT. DRESSING ROOM--SAME

The Security Guards stand outside a door marked James.

The Security guard look at one another.

The Security Guards stifle a laugh, as one makes a blow job

face to the rest.

INT. DRESSING ROOM--DAY

Bob opens an AIR VENT in the wall. He puts Suzanne into it

and hands her the tranquilizer gun, miming to her. She nods,

and starts crawling through the ductwork, Bob closes the

vent again, and starts rifling through a nearby closet.

Silent Bob pulls a pair of hangered COSTUMES from the closet,

smiling.

EXT. LOT--DAY

The Security Guards push a cuffed Jason and James into a

waiting Cop Car. The pair are still dressed like Jay and

Silent Bob.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE HALLWAY--DAY

Jay and Bob creep toward a door (we don't see the outfits).

Suddenly, and A.D. appears, grabbing them by the shoulders.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE--BLUNTCAVE SET

It looks like the Batcave, but it's not. Off to the side,

near the monitor and chair setup, a black DIRECTOR eyeballs

the hustling, white crew.

A white P.A. brings a cup of latte to the Director.

The P.A. takes the cup and sips from it. He tries to hand it

back to the Director.

The Director glares at the scared P.A., as he cautiously

skulks off. BANKY EDWARDS approaches.

Banky's face drops as the A.D. joins them.

On the Bluntcave set, two massive doors open in the fake

rock. Smoke pours in, and Jay and Silent Bob--now dressed as

BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC--step from the darkness. Jay and Bob

survey the set, amazed.

Chaka heads back toward his monitor. Jay and Bob are confused.

Jay and Silent Bob go wide-eyed, as Chaka heads off.

Chaka climbs behind his monitor. The P.A. is waiting for him

with another cup of coffee.

Chaka smacks the coffee out of his hand and sits down.

The Clapper/Loader jumps in front of the startled Jay and

Bob, getting ready.  After a beat, he turns to Silent Bob.

The clapper/Loader shuts the clapboard and races off. From

behind the monitor,

Chaka calls out--

Jay and Bob (as Bluntman and Chronic) look at each other for

a beat. Then--

Suddenly, the wall to their left explodes. Jay and Bob hit

the deck. Through the smoking rubble steps COCK-KNOCKER--the

arch--nemesis of Bluntman and Chronic.  He's a normal-looking

man with huge, overgrown FISTS.

Cock-Knocker slams one of his huge fists into Jay's balls.

Jay drops to his knees, wailing. Cock-Knocker then pulls a

vibrator-looking device from his cape.  He presses a button

on it and a laser beam rises out of the vibrator, like a

light saber.

Silent Bob quickly looks right, then left. His eyes fall on--

A wall of armaments, on which hands a SILVER BONG, under the

placard: BONG SABER--EXTREMELY EXPERIMENTAL. DO NOT USE.

It's out of his reach.

Silent Bob closes his eyes, concentrating. He reached his

hand out to the Bong Saber, attempting the Jedi Mind Trick.

Suddenly, the Bong snaps from the armory into Bob's grip.

The Bong Saber blasts to life and Bob strikes a defensive

pose. Bob rushes the astonished Cock-Knocker and the pair

start light saber dueling.

Cock-Knocker battles Bob back. He vogues some impressive

blade handling, prompting Bob to make a run for it--up the

ladder of the Bong Reactor and over Cock-Knocker's head. He

lands behind Cock-Knocker, striking another pose.  Cock-

Knocker then high- kicks Bob in the face, knocking him on

his ass across the floor. Cock-Knocker rushers over to deliver

a saber kill-shot, when we hear--

Cock-Knocker turns to see--

Jay, standing on the rotating monitor station, holding a

double-sided saber. He clicks it and TWO beams emit (a la

the Darth Maul light saber in Episode One).

Jay leaps at Cock-Knocker, wielding the double-beamed Bong

Saber.

EXT. SOUNDSTAGE--DAY

Willenholly's car screeches up, and Willenholly jumps with a

shotgun. He slides across the hood of the car and lands beside

the flashing red light.

Willenholly cocks his shotgun and heads for the door.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE--DAY

The door bursts open, and Willenholly charges in, firing two

shots, O.C.

Willenholly goes wide-eyed.

It's not Bluntcave. We're on a different soundstage, where a

kid's movie's being shot: Mooby's Grand Adventure. There's a

Barney-sized MOOBY surrounded by little KIDS. The Kids stare

back at Willenholly terrified. The Mooby suit has smoking

bullet holes in it. Mooby collapses.

The Kids look at the fallen Mooby. On looks angrily at the

O.C. Willenholly.

The Kids charge Willenholly, who screams like a woman as

he's attacked.

INT. SOUNDSTAGE--SAME

Jay attacks Cock-Knocker with his Bong Saber, full throttle.

Jay whacks away happily at the actor playing Cock-Knocker,

hacking him up onto the ladder of the Bluntcave's nuclear

reactor. Cock-Knocker climbs the ladder slightly to evade

the attack, dueling Jay back with the saber in his other

hand.

On cue, Jay delivers a kill-shot to one of Cock-Knocker's

huge fists, cutting it off (a la Empire).

Silent Bob joins Jay, as Jay turns off this double-Bong Saber,

Jay grins at Cock-Knocker.

Suddenly, a gun shot rings out.

All turn to see a roughed-up Willenholly, training his gun

first on Jay, then Bob.

All turn to see Justice approaching from the shadows.

Willenholly trains his gun on her. Jay's mouth drops.

Justice pulls the bag of diamonds from her jacket, revealing

them.

All turn to see Sissy, Missy, and Chrissy slinking from the

shadows, guns drawn.

All turn to look at Chaka.

Justice high-kicks the gun out of Sissy's hand. It lands on

the ground discharging. Then everyone starts shooting and

running for cover.

Jay and Silent Bob hurl themselves over the Bluntmobile.

Missy and Chrissy flip over a lavish, exquisitely-packed

craft service table labeled. CAST. They pop back up and start

firing at Willenholly. Willenholly leaps behind a barren

craft service table that holds a bag of Smarties and a dented

can of RC Cola. He pops up and returns fire. When both are

out of bullets, they drop back down behind the table and

reload. From behind his table,

Willenholly yells--

The Girls and Willenholly both pop back up and open fire

again.

Chaka ducks behind the monitor.

He races off, passing Justice and Sissy, who circle each

other defensively, striking kung fu poses.

Justice rushes Sissy and instead of sleek kung fu, they launch

into a down-and-dirty, girl's cat-fight; hair pulling and

screaming.

Behind the Bluntmobile, Jay and Bob watch all the action.

Both Bob and Jay smile at each other, nodding. Banky joins

them, crawling in on his belly, covering his head.

Sissy has Justice on her belly, banging her face into the

floor, screeching.  Jay, Bob, and Banky continue.

Banky stares at Silent Bob, agog, Jay rolls his eyes.

Banky stares at Bob, even more agog, joined by Jay. After a

beat, Jay adds--

Justice now has the advantage over Sissy, holding her head

and kicking her in the face, repeatedly, screaming.

In the background, we see Justice high-kick Sissy into the

air.

On cue, Sissy drops from above, landing in Jay's lap.

Sissy races at Justice, leaping atop her, pulling her hair.

Jay, Bob, and Banky continue.

Silent Bob rolls his eyes, Banky shakes Jay's hand.

Justice throws Sissy off, onto the floor. Both get up, facing

each other.

Justice high-kicks Sissy and she goes flying across the stage.

Sissy sails toward the craft service table, landing atop

Missy and Chrissy, knocking them out.

Willenholly stands to see why the girls stopped shooting.

Suddenly, he lets out a shriek and falls forward, revealing

a tranquilizer dart in his ass, and SUZANNE standing behind

him, holding the gun up in the air.  Justice surveys her

handiwork for a beat, then calls off toward the Bluntmobile.

Jay, Bob, and Banky pop up from behind the car and join her.

Then, the SOUND of SIRENS rings out in the distance.

Justice lifts Willenholly into a sitting position and taps

his face.

Justice looks toward the direction of the sirens, thinking.

Then--

Justice stands and takes Jay by the hands.

Justice smiles and kisses Jay Passionately. The kiss should

say it all, but--

Justice and Jay kiss again.

Suzanne reached up to Silent Bob, who picks her up. She grabs

his face and kisses him.

Willenholly looks to Banky.

EXT. SOUNDSTAGE--LATER

Justice and Jay are still kissing, until Willenholly pulls

her away and loads her into the waiting Cop Car.

Willenholly closes the door behind Justice and gets in the

car.

Jay looks at Justice, confused, as the Cruiser pulls away,

leaving Jay, Bob, Suzanne, and Banky. They start walking

down the lot.

Jay and Bob suddenly freeze. They look at each other and

smile.

START THE JAY AND BOB KICKASS MONTAGE

EXT. SKY--DAY

A passenger JET flies through the sky.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET--DAY

Jay and Bob stand across the street from a house. They check

the address on the big ream of paper they're carrying, nod

at each other, and cross the street.

INT. HOUSE--DAY

The doorbell rings. A MOTHER answers it to see Jay and Silent

Bob standing in the doorway.

She walks away. After a beat, a fifteen-year-old KID comes

to the door.

Jay and Bob nod at each other, then grab the KID, pull him

outside, and start beating the shit out of him on his front

lawn.

EXT. SKY--DAY

The passenger jet flies again, this time in the opposite

direction.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE--DAY

Jay and Bob knocking at another door. Another MOTHER answers.

They speak, she heads inside, and another KID comes to the

door.

Again, Jay and Bob pull the Kid outside and beat the shit

out of him.

INT. CONVENIENCE STORE--DAY

Jay and Bob beat the shit out of a CLERK.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING HALLWAY--DAY

Jay and Bob beat the shit out of a WOMAN.

EXT. RECTORY--DAY

Jay and Bob beat the shit out of a PRIEST.

INT. OFFICE--DAY

Jay and Bob beat the shit out of a BUSINESSMAN.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE--NIGHT

The marquee reads: JASON BIGGS AND JAMES VAN DER BEEK ARE

BLUNTMAN AND CHRONIC!

WORLD PREMIERE!

The front doors open and the CROWD lets out. First we see

DANTE and RANDAL.

STEVE-DAVE and WALT exit.

ALYSSA and TRISH come out.

BANKY and HOOPER exit.

A guy behind them calls out to Banks.

Banky grabs the guy by the throat and starts choking him,

while Hooper tries to break them up.

WILLENHOLLY exits with Justice in hand-and leg cuffs and a

prison uniform.  They're flanked by two ARMED PRISON GUARDS.

And finally, Jay and Silent Bob come out.

WHIP PAN to Morris day and The Time on stage, performing

"The Bird." During the song, Morris points to--

Jay and Bob, who are dancing with Suzanne and Justice (who's

still in cuffs, flanked by the Guards). Jay looks to Bob,

they nod at each other and--

Jay and Silent Bob, join Morris Day and the TIME onstage,

and dance us out to the coda, which reads--

CODA

Bluntman and Chronic Strike Back went on to make a mere 2.3

million at the box office. It was the biggest commercial

failure in the history of Miramax films.  The film was roundly

drubbed as a bad idea by the denizens of the Internet chat

boards, and over the course of the next year, while they

waited for the Quick Stop restraining order to expire, Jay

and Silent Bob tracked them all down and beat the shit out

of them.

CREDITS. THEN--

INT. NOWHERE

A familiar WOMAN closes a book that's marked: THE VIEW

ASKEWNIVERSE. She puts the book down, smiles at us and skips

off.

THE END

