EXT. TROPICAL LAGOON - DAY

A 135-foot-luxury yacht is anchored just offshore in a

tropical lagoon.  The beach is a stunning crescent of white

sand at the jungle fringe, utterly deserted.

Two SHIP HANDS, dressed in white uniforms, have set up a

picnic table with three chairs on the sand and are carefully

laying out luncheon service -- fine china, silver, crystal

decanters with red and white wine.

PAUL BOWMAN, fortyish, sits in a chair off to the side,

reading.  MRS. BOWMAN, painfully thin, with the perpetually

surprised look of a woman who's had her eyes done more than

once, supervises the settings of the table.

She looks up and sees a little girl, CATHY, seven or eight

years old, wandering off down the beach.

Cathy keeps wandering.

Cathy gestures, pretending she can't hear.

FURTHER DOWN THE BEACH,

Cathy keeps wandering away, MUTTERING to herself as her

parents' quarreling voices fade in the distance.

Rounding a curve in the beach, her parents disappear from view

behind her.  A RUSTLING sound draws her attention, and she

turns, toward where the thick jungle foliage gives way to the

sand.

A large bush, maybe twelve feet tall, is moving, its branches

swaying and shaking.  Curious, Cathy walks up to the bush,

which abruptly stops moving.

A small, lizard-like animal, dark green with brown stripes

along its back, steps out from the bush.  Only about a foot

tall, it stands on its hind legs, balancing on its thick tail.

It walks upright, bobbing its head like a chicken.

The animal (a COMPSOGNATHUS) just stares at her.  Cathy squats

down on her haunches.

She opens her hand.  She's got a handful of goldfish crackers.

The compy bobs forward a few steps, cautiously.

The compy draws closer.  Cathy holds the cracker in the palm

of her hand.  The compy gets closer still --

-- and hops numbly up onto Cathy's palm.  Her arm dips a bit

under the weight, but it's not that heavy, and she holds it up

easily.  It bobs its head, scarfs up the goldfish, and eats

it.

Enchanted, Cathy breaks into an enormous grin and returns her

hand, calling back over her shoulder.

She turns back.

Thirty more compys have come out onto the sand.  They're

standing there, bobbing anxiously, staring at her from a few

feet away.  Cathy's smile fades.

She turns her head slowly to the right.  TWENTY MORE COMPYS

have come in from that side, forming a semi-circle, bobbing

and CHIPPING as they surround her.

BACK ON THE BEACH,

the table is set.  Mrs. Bowman calls out.

From around the curve of the beach, a flock of birds bolts

from the jungle trees as Cathy's shrill SCREAMS suddenly

pierce the air.

She takes off, running down the beach, Mr. Bowman leaps out of

his chair and follows, and all available deck hands race off

to help, kicking up geysers of sand behind them.

DOWN THE BEACH,

Mrs. Bowman stops dead in her tracks when she rounds the bend

in the beach.  We don't see what she sees, but we hear the

frenzied SQUEAKING of the strange compys.  Mr. Bowman and the

Hands race past her to help Cathy as Mrs. Bowman lets loose a

horrified, slack-jawed SCREAM, her mouth a perfect oval.

INT. BOARD ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Bowman's screaming face dissolves slowly over the

YAWNING face of a bored CORPORATE EXECUTIVE, TWENTY OTHER

EXECUTIVES sit around a conference table in the boardroom of a

monied corporation.  All are in expensive suits, most are over

sixty.  There are rows of BACKBENCHERS too, whispering in their

lawyers who sit behind their clients, whispering in their

ears.  Empty coffee cups and fast food containers on the table

hint that everyone's been here a long time.

A familiar VOICE resounds through the boardroom as we move

down the long table, pat the grim faces of the board members.

The source of the voice is JOHN HAMMOND, the founder of InGen

and creator of Jurassic Park.  But he's not in the room.  His

image is on a closed circuit TV screen, which has been wheeled

up to the end of the table.

And he doesn't look good.  He's terribly infirmed, propped up

in bed, his face pale and drawn, medical equipment BEEPING

around him.

The CHAIRMAN, seventyish, nods awkwardly to the television.

He turns to PETER LUDLOW, late thirties, a man with the

anxious look of someone who insists the buck stop on his desk.

Ludlow flips open a file, pulls out a stack of black and white

eight by tens, and tosses them on the table.

He's warming up.  Not a bad performer.

He reaches out to a model on the table and gives it a shove,

sending it sliding down the length of the table in front of

them.  It's a mini-mall version of a zoo.  Cages hold tiny

replicas of various kinds of dinosaurs while Boy Scout troops

and Tourists look on in wonder.

Two of his Backbenchers distribute documents from a stack.

Ludlow takes one and reads from it.

The CHAIRMAN signs heavily, feeling like a traitor.  He can't

bear to look at Hammond on the TV monitor.

It starts slowly, guiltily, but every hand in the room goes

up.  Ludlow sits back, victorious.  Hammond, furious, raises

his right hand, which holds a remote control, and points it at

the TV screen.  It goes blank.

EXT. WELDER'S YARD - NIGHT

Sparks fly out the windows and doors of a shed in the middle

of a welder's yard.  Scrap iron and steel lies everywhere.

Somewhere inside the shed, a phone RINGS.

The WHOOSH of the arc welder shuts off.  DIETER STARK, a big

barrel-chested man of forty or so, his face streaked with soot

and grime, steps outside with a cordless phone, a cigarette

dangling from his lips.

He takes a deep drag while someone talks on the other end.  He

smiles and blows out a cloud of smoke.

INT. NEW YORK SUBWAY - NIGHT

Smoke turns into steam as a subway THUNDER into a station

underneath Manhattan.  The door WHOOSH open, spit out some

COMMUTERS and suck up a few more.

A tall man hurries down the platform, limping heavily, moving

as fast as he can.  The subway doors begin to close, but just

before they meet --

-- the man jams a cane in between, stopping them.  The man

is IAN MALCOLM, fortyish, dressed in black from head to toe.

There's a hard wisdom in Malcolm's eyes that may not have been

there's a few years ago -- he know what you think, and he

doesn't care.

INT. SUBWAY CAR - NIGHT

MALCOLM finds a seat on the crowded subway car and sits down.

He looks awful.  Tired.  Weathered.  He notices a CURIOUS MAN

across from his is staring at his.  Malcolm looks away.  The

Curious Man still stares.  Nervy, the Curious Man gets up and

approaches.

The Curious Man sits down next to Malcolm, grinning.

No response from Malcolm.  The guy leans in even closer.

He gets up and moves to another seat on the car, away from the

Curious Man.  As he sits down, he notices two other COMMUTERS

across from him are staring at him.

He looks at them.  They looks away.

He pulls the collar of his coat up tight around him.  Nowhere

to hide.

INT. JOHN HAMMOND'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A UNIFORMED BUTLER has a question:

MALCOLM stands in the foyer of an expensively decorated Park

Avenue apartment.

A door opens and a little dog comes YAPPING out of the back.

It bounds straight at Malcolm, GROWLING, jaws SNAPPING.  It

lunges --

-- and Malcolm BATS it away with one swift swing of his cane.

The dog rolls across the floor and slinks away, WHINING.  The

Butler looks at Malcolm disapprovingly.

INT. HAMMOND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

MALCOLM enters a darkened bedroom.  JOHN HAMMOND lies in the

bed we saw earlier, on the other side of the room;

Medical equipment has been disguised as well as possible among

the furniture and flowers, but the sheer abundance of it tells

us that whatever has stricken him is going to win this battle.

Malcolm steps further into the room.

Noticing Hammond's deteriorated condition, Malcolm finds it

hard to sustain anger.

Malcolm just looks at him for a long moment.

Hammonnd picks up a thick file folder from the night table near

to him and open it on his lap.  Inside, there are memos,

charts, maps and photographs.

Malcolm just shakes his head, flipping through the file sadly.

Malcolm gently closes the file and pushes it back to Hammond.

He stops, staring over Malcom's shoulder.  Malcom turns.

PETER LUDLOW, still in his overcoat, is standing in the

doorway to the bedroom.  He looks back and forth from Hammond

to Malcolm suspiciously.

Malcolm doesn't answer.  He seems to know Ludlow, and dislikes

him.

Malcolm turns back to Hammond.

INT. HAMMOND'S APARTMENT/FOYER - NIGHT

In the foyer, LUDLOW hands MALCOLM his coat, just a trifle

rudely, and shepherds him to the door.

Ludlow tosses something to Malcolm, hard.  It sails across the

foyer, upright, and Malcolm reaches out and catches it with

one hand.  It's his cane.

Malcolm stares at him for a long moment.  Finally, he turns

and walks away.

But he does not out of the apartment.  Instead, he

walks directly past Ludlow, crosses the living room, and steps

back into Hammond's bedroom, closing the door behind him with

a determined CLICK.

INT. HAMMOND'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

HAMMOND looks up, hopeful, as MALCOLM comes back into the room

and walks over to his bed.  He reaches down --

-- and picks up the file folder.

INT. MOMBASSA BAR - DAY

ROLAND TEMBO, late sixties, skin like leather and the diamond

hard look of a cobra, sits at a table in the middle of an

African cafe/bar in Mombassa.

It's daytime and the place is half full, mostly with locals,

but there are a few obnoxious TOURISTS too, Americans on

safari who somehow found the local handout.

They're a noisy bunch, but Roland tunes them out, calmly

eating his lunch and drinking a beer while he reads a book,

eyeglasses hanging low on his nose.

Roland suddenly stops reading and furrows his brow.  He looks

up.  He SNIFFS the air once, then smiles and calls out a

person's name.

He turns around.  AJAY (AH-jay) SIDHU, a wiry East Indian in

his late forties, is standing behind him, caught trying to

sneak up.

Behind them, the group of TOURISTS, all men, laughs loudly.

One of them, the MOST OBNOXIOUS TOURISTS, berates the WAITRESS.

The Most Obnoxious Tourist bellows for the Waitress.  His

buddies LAUGHS.  Roland throws a glance, annoyed.

The Waitress comes to the Tourists' table and the Most

Obnoxious Tourist actually paws her ass.  Roland is out of his

chair in a second.

Romand walks over to the Tourists' table, says something to

the Waitress in the local dialect, and she walks away, behind

him.  He stares down at the Most Obnoxious Tourist.

The Tourist looks at his Buddies and laughs.

IN THE MIDDLE OF THE FLOOR,

the Waiter finishes tying a man's wrist to his belt in the

back of his pants with a napkin.  He pulls the knot tight and

the man turns around.

It's Roland, with his arm tied down.  The Tourist stands

across from him.

POW!  Roland punches him square in the jaw.  The Tourist

reels, stunned.  Enraged, he lunges at Roland, swinging with

both arms.

Roland bobs, neatly ducking the punches, waits for the Tourist

to turn around, and POPS him thrice in the face.  The Tourist

spins and goes down to the floor, face first.  A cloud of

sawdust and a loud CHEER from the locals rise up in the bar.

BACK AT HIS TABLE,

Roland drops the napkin on the table and sits back down with

Ajay.  In the background, the Tourist's Buddies hurriedly

carry their fallen cohort out of the bar.

Ajay just smiles.

EXT. AFRICAN SAVANNAH - NIGHT

The African savannah appears in shades of fluorescent green,

seen through night-vision goggles.  An ANIMAL YELP comes from

the left and the green vista sweeps abruptly toward it.  The

world blurs momentarily, then comes into focus on a field of

long grass.

The grass ripples in a complex pattern as animals move

stealthily through it.  One animal head pops up above the

grass for a split-second, teeth bared, a white stripe between

its eyes.  SARAH HARDING pulls the goggles away from her face.

Sarah is thirty, with a compact, athletic body built for the

outdoors.  She loos through the goggles again, sweeping ahead

of the hyenas to their prey.

It's a herd of African buffalo, standing belly-deep in the

grass, agitated, bellowing and stamping their feet.

Sarah turns to MAKENA, her African assistant.

Sarah scurries up and over a rock face.  Makena follows.

Closer now, they watch as the hyenas rush the herd, running

through it, trying to break it up.

While she talks, breathless, fascinated by the drama before

her, Sarah continues to creep closer and closer to the action.

Makena follows, with growing unease.

She's practically on top of the animals now.

Makena has a hold of Sarah's sweatshirt and is tugging her

back, at least trying to slow down her progress as Sarah,

wide-eyed with fascination, creeps even closer.

Suddenly there is a tremendous BELLOWING and the grass right

in front of them rips apart, trampled under the feet of the

hyenas as they cluster around a fallen buffalo calf.  They

yelp and jump, their muzzles bloody.

The adults move aside, making room as the hyena pups come

forward, squealing to get at the kill.  Sarah's eyes shine

with excitement and she moves even closer, whispering into the

tape recorder.

A telephone rings.

Sarah stops in mid-sentence, unsure if she heard what she

thought she heard.  It rings again, the unmistakable CHIRPING

of a cellular phone.  Sarah and Makena both move at once,

pawing at a backpack.

Two hyenas look inquisitively in the direction of the phone.

Sarah comes up with it and jabs at a button in irritation.

Someone speaks on the other end.  Sarah rolls her eyes.

Sarah doesn't say anything for a long moment, just listens as

the voice on the other end talks.  And talks.

INT. MOBILE FIELD SYSTEMS - DAY

Ian Malcolm's leg, badly scarred, is bared and draped over the

end of a bench.  Two sandbags are fastened to his ankle and

MALCOLM is lifting them, painfully rehabbing his injury while

talking on a satellite phone.

Behind them, the SPARKS of a acetylene torch fly as WORKMEN

make modifications on several vehicles, including a dark-green

Mercedes Benz AAV (all-activity vehicle).  The hood of the AAV

is up and the V-6 engine has been pulled out; a new, smaller

engine is lowered in its place.  To one side are two long

trailers, connected by an accordion-like passageway, like on a

subway car, allowing one to be towed behind the other.

EDDIE CARR, fortyish, is barking out orders to the Workmen.

From the ceiling, a large metal age CRASHES down, landing

next to them on the floor with a deafening CLANG.  They leap

back and look up.  A WORKMAN waves from a scaffolding.

Eddie bends down to inspect the cage, which is rectangular,

constructed of inch-thick titanium-alloy bars.  Malcolm hangs

up the phone and walks up, joining him.

Behind them, someone CLEARS THEIR THROAT.  Eddie and Malcolm

turn around.  KELLY MALCOLM, an African-American girl around

twelve years old, stands in the doorway to the garage, a

duffel bag slung over one shoulder.  She looks at Malcolm and

breaks into a wide grin.

She drops the bag on the floor, and wraps her arms around him

in a warm embrace.  He responds stiffly.

She pulls back and looks at him.

INT. EDDIE'S OFFICE - DAY

KELLY is slumped in a chair in Eddie's office next to the

construction floor.  Outside the glass windows work on the

vehicles continues unabated.  MALCOLM hangs up the phone.

From the construction floor, EDDIE calls out.

Malcolm looks at her, trying to make peace.  Quickly.

He looks at her, hurt.  Eddie calls out a third time,

impatient now.  Grateful for the escape, Malcolm gets up and

heads for the door.  He pauses guiltily.

He leaves.

INT. MAIN FLOOR - DAY

While MALCOLM and EDDIE argue over something in the

background, KELLY circles around the trailers and looks up at

the windows.  They're all made of tempered glass, fine wire

mesh inside it.  She looks around, to see if anybody's

watching.  They're not, so she quickly slips inside the front

trailer.

INT. TRAILER - DAY

Inside, the trailer is a miracle of planning and design.  It's

divided into sections, for different laboratory functions.

The main area is a biological lab, with specimen trays,

dissecting pans, and microscopes that connect to video

monitors.

Next to it there's an extensive computer section, a bank of

processors, and a communications section.  All the lab

equipment is miniaturized and built into small tables that

slides into the walls.  Everything is bolted down.

She notices a large map on the wall.  Off the coat of Costa

Rica, there is an area that has been circled in heavy black

ink.

Kelly puts a finger on the map, crossing westward, through the

Pacific Ocean.  Thegre are dozen s of islands out here, but in

the highlighted region, there is a semi-circle of five.

Matanceros.  Muerte.  Tacano.  Pena.  And Sorna.  Underneath

the whole island chain, there is a bold legend.

"The Five Deaths," it says.

Slowly, an ocean barge starts to chug its way across the

face of the map, leaving a wake that rolls the printed letters

of those three ominous words.

EXT. OPEN SEA - DAY

The map dissolves slowly away as the barge SPALASEHS through

five foot ocean swells in the open sea.  The barge is crammed

with equipment, the AAV, trailers, a jeep, and the members of

Malcolm's team.

ON THE BOAT,

MALCOLM stands in the bow, riding the choppy seas.  Next to

him, DR. JUTTSON, fortyish, holds onto the railing,

seasick.  He SHOUTS over the DRONE of the boat's engines.

Juttson looks at him skeptically --

-- and throws up.

AT THE BACK OF THE BOAT,

NICK VAN OWEN, a good-looking American in his late

twenties, is sitting amid a pile of video cameras and other

photographic equipment, playing with a Game Bow.  SARAH

HARDING, dressed in field gear, sits down next to him.

Nick grins and shuts it off.

But her face says even she has her doubts.

She looks at him.

The boat's CAPTAIN, a Costa Rican, points ahead and SHOUTS to

them.

They all turn and look out over the bow.  Up ahead, shear,

reddish-gray cliffs of volcanic rock rise dramatically out of

the fog-heavy ocean.

The boat ROARS ahead, plowing into a heavy wreath of fog.  The

mist swirls and encircles it.

EXT. ISLAND FIORD - DAY

A narrow inlet cuts through the steep cliffs, leading to the

island interior.  The barge bursts through the fog at the

mouth of the fiord and heads deeper into the island.

EXT. LAGOON - DAY

Lush green plants drip everywhere in this verdant lagoon.

Sulfurous yellow steam issues from the ground, bleaching the

nearby foliage white.  In the distance one can hear the cries

of JUNGLE BIRDS.

The boat is now beached and the CREW flips the tarps off the

AAV, the jeep, and the trailers.  The trucks back down a

narrow ramp and onto the soft clay shore at the edge of the

lagoon.  There is a large three-toad animal imprint in the

clay at the water's edge, and the AAV backs right over it,

swapping its track for the animal's.

MALCOLM is at the edge of the water with the CAPTAIN.

In the distance, they hear the faint, strange ROAR of a very

large animal.  The Captain looks at Malcolm, eyes wide.

EXT. GRASSY PLAIN - DAY

The jeep tows the double trailer to the edge of a grassy plain

just beyond the lagoon, overlooking the interior of the

island.  The noon sun is high overhead; below, the valley

shimmers in midday heat.

EDDIE connects a flexible cable to the jeep's power winch and

flicks it on.  The cable turns slowly in the sunlight.  Moving

along the length of it, we see the cable leads to a pile of

aluminum, some kind of strut assembly painted a camouflage

color.

As the winch pulls the cable tight, the jumble of thin struts

begins to move, slowly rising into the air.  The emerging

structure climbs, spidery, struts unfolding, fifteen feet into

the air.  The light house at the top (the cage that was

tested back at Eddie's workshop) is now just beneath the

lowest branches of the nearby trees, which almost conceal it

from view.

NICK lights a cigarette and carelessly tosses the match on the

ground.  Malcolm notices.

Is it our imagination, or did the trees behind Malcolm just

sway slightly?

No, it's not our imagination, there they go again.  Whole

trees shivering and swaying from left to right and back

again.

Now the trees CREAKS and GROAN as they sway.  Everyone has seen

it, and now Malcolm turns around too.

INT. DOUBLE TRAILERS - DAY

It's quiet inside the trailers that serve as their command

post/living quarters.  The books are lined up neatly on the

shelves.  The computers sit, booted up and awaiting data

input.

All the way in the back, past the spare tires and life

preservers and canned food and bottled water, up in one

storage bin all the way on top, there's a RUSTLING SOUND.

A plastic student ID card pops out in the cracks under the

bin's door.  A photograph in the lower right hand corner of

the card is visible -- it's Kelly, Malcolm's twelve-year-old

daughter.

The card wriggles against the lock and, with a soft CLICK, the

door pops open.  KELLY herself tumbles out, wrapped in several

blankets and carrying a mason jar half full of a yellowish

liquid.  We can guess.

She leaps to her feet, blinks the light out of her eyes, and

bolts to the back of the trailer as fast as she possibly can.

She races through a narrow door and SLAMS it shut.

A sign on the door says "RESTROOM."  Inside, a SIGH of relief

is heard.

EXT. JUNGLE TRAIL - DAY

Along a stream bed, the jungle trees still shiver.  NICK loads

a three quarter inch tape into his heavy video camera and

chews anxiously on a piece of gum.  SARAH and DR. JUTTSON are

beside him as the group nervously follows the GROANING forest

trees to their right.

At the rear, EDDIE and MALCOLM walk side by side.  Eddie is

carrying a heavy silver rifle, an aluminum canister hanging

beneath the barrel.  He shows it to Malcolm, his voice low and

urgent.

He cracks open the cartridge bank, revealing a row of plastic

containers filled with straw-colored liquid.  Each is tipped

with a three inch needle and carries a bright yellow warning

tag -- "EXTREME DANGER!  LETHAL TOXICITY!"

From their right, the shaking trees seen closer now.  By

walking down the stream bed, the humans are tracking right

along with the animals as they move in the foliage.

Ahead of them, thick foliage blocks the path of the dried up

stream bed to the height of about fifteen feet.  But around

them, the CRASHING sounds get louder and closer, the swaying

trees shiver right beside them.  Eddie raises the rifle in

defense as the trees right at the edge of the stream bed sway

and part.  Above the foliage, they see the sudden

movement --

-- of a row of STEGOSAUR fins.  The spade-shaped fins run

along a ridge down the middle of the animal's back, about

three feet tall each.  The group freezes, amazed, and as the

stegosaur continues on, they get a good look at it through a

break in the foliage.

It's a large dinosaur with a small head, a thick neck, and a

huge lumbering body.

A double row of plates runs along the crest of its back, and

it has a dragging trail with long spikes in it.

The gum drops out of Nick's mouth, FLOPS onto his shirt, and

sticks there.

A second stegosaur, a baby about a quarter the size of the

first animal, breaks through the foliage, following the adult.

While the group is reaching to that, the earth vibrates and

a third stego, by far the biggest of the three, walks out of

the foliage right behind them, crossing within ten feet.

Apparently unconcerned about these little creatures in their

environment, the stegos continue on across the stream bed.

Sarah raises a still camera and shoots pictures.  Her shutter

is muted, so that a muffled CLICK is all that's audible.

Juttson raises a pocket recorder to his lips and whispers into

it breathlessly.

His breathy words turn into almost helpless laughter, of all

things, as he can't contain his astonishment.  Eddie covers

his mouth, trying to keep him quiet.

Nick turns to Malcolm, eyes like saucers, and makes a futile,

wordless, boy-was-I-wrong-on-this-one gesture.  Malcolm

smiles, leans over, and TAPS softly on Nick's video camera.

Nick raises it to his shoulder and flicks it on as the group

continues on into the bush after the animals.

IN THE BUSH,

the baby wanders away from the group and ambles over near

where Sarah crouches in the bushes.  Sarah raises her camera

again and silently SNAPS a picture.  She WHISPERS to Juttson,

who is beside her.

She gestures and Juttson peers through a pair of field

glasses.

She sees an opportunity.  As the baby heads back to its

parents, Sarah scoots right along with it, moving behind it,

using its body as a shield to block her from the view of the

other two.

Nick and Eddie's faces whiten in alarm.  Nick reaches out to

stop her, but he barely gets hold of the sole of her boot

before she pulls away from him and duckwalks out into the

clearing.

IN THE CLEARING,

Sarah slinks along behind the baby stego as it walks back,

toward the nest, chewing the branches it carries in its south.

She raises up sightly, squeezing off pictures of the herd,

ever better as she gets closer.

BACK AT THE HILL,

the others can only watch her, aghast.

IN THE CLEARING,

Sarah keeps moving closer.  The baby passes a small grouping

of rocks and Sarah ducks behind them.  She's now in a perfect

position to photograph the nest, and she squeezes off picture

after picture from this ideal vantage point.

She shoots the last picture on the roll --

-- and the camera's autowinder WHIRS to life.  Sarah looks

down in horror as the camera's motor WHINES loudly in her

hands.

Th noise startles the animals.  The male turns toward her

the plates on its back bristling.  Sarah gets to her feet and

starts to move away, slowly.

The male turns away from her and swings its tail, spikes

extended.  It WHIZZES through the air, right at her, but Sarah

leaps back at the last second --

-- and the tail's spikes THUD into the dirt where she was.

Sarah CRUNCHES to the ground and the three stegosaurs dart

away, disappearing into the bush, moving surprisingly quickly

for animals their size.

The others run to Sarah, help her to her feet, and pull her

back, against a massive tree trunk.  But the tree trunk lifts

right up off the ground.

It's no tree, it's a DINOSAUR'S LEG, a massive one, six feet

across, God knows how many feet high.  The Group gasps and

looks up as a MAKENCHIASAURUS, an enormous saurupod over a

hundred feet from nose to tail,  lumbers away from them.

The Group stares in wonder as the mamenchiasaur stops and

HONKS furtively, its long neck stretched out above them.

Now a second mamenchiasaur neck cranes out of the

surrounding forest trees and wraps around the first.  The

first mamenchiasaur THUNDERS around in a semi-circle, getting

into position behind the second.

Nick swings his video camera straight up and the group

suddenly finds itself in the middle of a mamenchiasaur mating.

The mighty tails swing and SNAP around them as the two animals

come together, and trees start snapping and falling, CRASHING

to the jungle floor.

The group panics and bolts for cover toward the only place

where the trees are not falling -- which is directly underneath

the animals!

Amid HONKS and BLEATS, the swinging tails continue to deforest

the jungle around them.

The noise and chaos is deafening, drowning out the LAUGHTER

and SCREAMS of the fascinated and terrified group.

There is a momentary lull and the group dashes out from

underneath the animals, disappearing into the thick forest.

A SHORT DISTANCE AWAY,

the Group collapses to the ground, breathless, chests heaving

with wild, frightened laughter.  Sarah goes to Malcolm and

throws her arms around him, exhilarated.

EXT. JUNGLE TRAIL - DAY

Suddenly, the Gathereres are taking their expedition a lot more

seriously.  They march quickly back to base camp, their energy

and excitement palpable.  NICK strikes a match and raises it

to a cigarette with a shaking hand, but SARAH leans in and

blows it out.

Nick ejects the used videotape from his camera and pulls out a

sharpie, to label it.

Eddie, next to him, laughs.

He takes off, running as fast as he can, down the trail,

toward base camp.  They look ahead, in the direction Nick is

running.  A plume of black smoke is rising up over the trees.

EXT. BASE CAMP - DAY

NICK bursts out of the trees and races toward the thick plume

of smoke.  In the middle of the base camp, someone has neatly

built a campfire surrounded by stones.  Flames burn in the

middle.

Nick races over to it and stomps it out as the OTHERS emerge

from the trees behind him.

Nick grabs a jug of water, but Sarah steps in.

They start to kick and rake dirt onto the fire with their

hands and feet.  Eddie and Dr. Juttson jump in and help out.

Malcolm turns toward the source of the voice.  KELLY stands in

the doorway of the trailer, sheepish.

The whole group stares, stunned, none more so than Malcolm

himself.

EXT. BASE CAMP - LATER

Later, and base camp is a blur of activity.  SARAH, JUTTSON,

NICK, and EDDIE are hard at work, burying the remains of the

fire, sealing their food in plastic bags, loading camera

equipment, packing up specimen containers and other

information-gathering equipment.

MALCOLM, meanwhile, is lecturing Kelly.

Nick leans over and whispers to Eddie, gesturing to Malcolm

and Kelly.

He looks at her, touched.  Nick mutters to Eddie again.

A low sound has been rising while she speaks, and now it comes

BOOMING over the jungle around them, a THUNDEROUS racket that

shakes the very ground beneath them.  Suddenly, three C-130

military cargo planes THUNDER overhead and ROAR toward the

island interior, flying very low.  The planes are enormous,

fat-assed creatures, their rear cargo doors hanging open.

AT A RIDGE,

the members of the gatherer expedition hit the dirt and peer

over a ledge, watching as the airplanes bank and circle over a

specific spot.

Eddie raises a pair of field glasses.

DOWN BELOW,

huge metal equipment containers are shoved out the back of the

cargo bays.  They SNAP off trees like matchsticks, CRUSH flat

anything foolish enough to exist where they want to land.

Now MEN pour out the rear of the planes, their low-altitude

parachutes billowing open behind them.

UP ON THE RIDGE,

Nick looks at Sarah.

EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - DAY

Metal container doors CLANG to the ground, jeep engines ROAR

to life in a cloud of thick black diesel smoke, blue laser

barriers SIZZLE and BURN through foliage as this group of

HUNTERS establishes a perimeter around their new camp.

PETER LUDLOW, dressed in brand new Banana Republic safari

wear, steps into the center of the camp and surveys the

surroundings.  He turns to DR. ROBERT BURKE, a ragged,

pony-tailed man in wire-rimmed glasses.

Burke has a detailed set of satellite recon photographs that

he spreads out on the hood of a jeep.

Burke flips open a manifest that he will carry with him at all

times.  Inside, there are dozens of sketches of various kinds

underneath.  As each vehicle ROARS out of the equipment

container, Burke slips a waterproof eight by ten card with an

icon of the various dinosaurs on the island into a slot in the

dashboard.

As the procession goes on, Ludlow turns to DIETER STARK, the

man we saw welding earlier.

Dieter nods and turns to some of the HUNTERS, who number about

twenty in all, that are working nearby.  But someone steps in

front of Dieter, cutting him off.  It's ROLAND TEMBO, the

hunter from the bar in Mombassa.

Roland points to a stream running nearby.

Dieter SIGHS and goes to work.  Roland puts an arm around

Ludlow and pulls him aside.

EXT. JUNGLE

The jungle foliage shivers, quakes, and finally falls as the

Hunters' convoy ROARS into the hart of the jungle.  DIETER

STARK stands in the front of the lead vehicle, the

"speedbird," waving the convoy forward, his Driver (CARTER) at

the wheel beside him.

LUDLOW is in the back seat of the speedbird next to DR. BURKE.

ROLAND and AJAY, his tracker, are in the second jeep.  They

look up as the brakelights on the speedbird flash and the car

stops, forcing the rest of the convoy to halt as well.

In the front, the speedbird flashes its lights at something in

front of it.  Dieter climbs out, plainly irritated.  He walks

around the front of the car and sees --

-- four PACHYCEPHALOSAURS eating grass in the middle of the

jungle trail.  They're about five feet tall, thick, heavy-set

animals whose distinctive feature is an enormous skull casing,

a tall, impressive crown that rises on the tops of their

heads.  Dieter doesn't seem impressed.  He looks back at

Ludlow, who look at Dr. Burke.

Burke stands up in his seat, a look of wonder on his face.

The pachys look up at him sluggishly, still eating, like cows

chewing their cuds.  As unimpressive with him as he is with

them, they go back to their grass.

He slings his rifle off his  shoulder and aims it at the

closest animal.  Behind him, Roland has climbed out of the

second jeep.

Dieter gestures to the speedbird to pull ahead, which it does,

slowly, toward the animals.  The pachys look up, alert, but do

not move.  Dieter walks toward them.

The speedbird draws closer.  The first pachy stares at it

intently.  The lead vehicle gets closer, closer --

-- and BANGS into the pachy, knocking it back a few feet, out

of the way.

BEHIND DIETER,

Ajay is staring at something on the ground at his feet.  He

takes a few steps further into the foliage, then turns back

toward Roland.

UP AT THE FRONT,

the pachys turn and hop away.  Dieter turns and heads back to

the speedbird.  As he reaches for the door, a VOICE calls

"look out!" from behind him.  Dieter spins around, just in

time to see --

-- the first pachy in full charge.  It SLAMS headfirst into

the speedbird, SMASHING the headlights and denting the grill.

Dieter turns and runs around to the front of the car.  The

pachy has backed up  for another run and is now CHARGING RIGHT

AT HIM.

Dieter retreats, quickly, and rips open the passenger door to

protect himself.

SLAM!  The pachy clobbers the door, sending Dieter flying

against the car, knocking the wind out of him.

In the other jeeps, the rest of the HUNTERS stand up or lean

out the window for a better look, laughing.

POW!!  The pachy head-butts the tire next to Dieter.  It

bounces off, tumbles to the ground, and rolls to its feet as

Dieter gets to his knees and crawls toward the back of the

speedbird.

But the pachy is quicker and lunges at Dieter again.  He's

forced to hit the dirt and crawls quickly underneath the

speedbird, just as the animal SLAMS into the rear of the

vehicle.

Now the other three animals join the jun.  Ludlow and the

Driver have to cover their heads as the animals lunge at the

car again and again, SMASHING the steel-meshed windows and

MANGLING the quarter panels.  The rest of the group watches,

vastly amused.

A FEW STEPS INTO THE JUNGLE,

Ajay and Roland are staring at something on the ground -- an

animal footprint, three-toed, enormous.

Roland gets up and goes back to his vehicle, ignoring the

pachy demolition derby that continues up at the speedbird.

Roland opens a case in the back of the jeep, revealing --

-- his gun.  It's an antique elephant gun, a double barreled

.600 Nitro Express.  Nearly a hundred years old, it's still in

immaculate condition, its rosewood stock buttery smooth,

bisons delicately engraved along its silver breach.

The barrels are twenty-four inches long, topped with an ivory

bead foresight at the business end.  Roland scoops up the gun,

breaks the breach, and pulls two rounds of ammunition from his

shirt pocket.

Four inches long and three-quarters of an inch in diameter,

these are the largest full metal jacket cartridges ever made.

He slips one into each barrel and heads back into the bush.

Roland pauses before he goes, as if noticing the animals

trashing the speedbird for the first time.

The pachys all freeze, staring at him.  Roland waves one hand,

HISSES sharply between his teeth --

-- and the pachys scatter, back into the jungle.  Takes care

of that problem.  Roland turns and heads back into the jungle,

calling out over his shoulder to Ludlow.

And with that he disappears into the foliage.

The Driver of the Speedbird drops it into gear and the

battered car GROANS forward.  As it moves ahead, it reveals

DIETER, lying underneath it, ego bruised worse than body.

IN THE JUNGLE,

Ajay takes a step into the bush, but at a ninety degree

angle away from the direction in which the animals tracks

lead.

Ajay turns.  Roland points in the direction in which the

footprints lead.

Roland smiles.  Ajay sets off in his direction and Roland

follows.

EXT. ISLAND RIDGE - DAY

Seen from a ridge above them, the hunters' convoy continues to

plow through the jungle.  But how the hunters themselves are

being tracked, followed by the GATHERERS.  They scurry along

as fast as they can, trying to keep pace with the moving

vehicle below.

Kelly has a pair of binoculars and is studying the vehicles as

they move below.

Malcolm takes the binoculars and stares down there himself.

The group moves on ahead, but Malcolm lingers, angry, staring

through the binoculars.

EXT. THE CAVES - DAY

AJAY and ROLAND make their way through the foliage and come

into a small clearing, where a cluster of caves is carved into

the rock.  Ajay freezes, gesturing ahead, to the cave on the

far left.

Roland pulls up a handful of grass and releases it on the

breeze.  It floats back between his legs.  That's good.

He proceeds toward the cave, carefully, Ajay behind him.  They

can see nothing beyond the yawning mouth of the cave, only a

black interior.

Roland pauses, looking down.  On the ground to his right he

sees the partially eastern leg of a creature.  It's old,

crawling with white maggots and flies.

Roland continues on.  Closer to the cave, he now passes the

skull of a large animal, some of the flesh and green skin

still adhering to the bone.  It, too, is covered with flies.

Still he continues on.  A short rise leads into the cave, and

they edge up it.  From inside the cave, they can hear an odd

SQUEAKING sound, very high-pitched.

Crawling now, Roland and Ajay scale a four-foot circular

rampart of dried mud, and peer into --

-- the tyrannosaur nest.  It's flattered inside, about ten

feet in diameter, completely encircled by earthen walls.

A BABY TYRANNOSAUR, about four and a half feet long, is in the

center of the nest.  It has a large head, very large eyes, and

its body is covered with a fluffy red down, which gives it a

scraggly appearance.

It SQUEAKS repeatedly, tearing awkwardly at the remains of a

chunk of animal flesh, biting decisively with tiny, sharp

teeth.

The cave itself is a foul boneyard.  ANIMAL CARCASSES litter

the edges, flies BUZZ in the captive air.  Roland raises a

bandana to his nose to cover the stench.  He  turns to Ajay and

WHISPERS.

Ajay nods.  The baby tyrannosaur hears the whisper and looks

up, cocking its head in curiosity.

In the nest below, the baby SQUEAKS angrily at the intruders.

The baby SQUEAKS again, indignant.  Roland turns and looks

down at it.  Thinking.

EXT. RIDGE - DUSK

As the sun glows bright orange on the horizon, NICK raises a

pair of binoculars to his eyes and peers down at the vista

below the ridge.

In the lenses of the binoculars, we can clearly see a mixed

herd of midsized herbivores -- HARDOSAURS, PACHYCEPHALOSAURS,

and CALLIMIMUSES -- racing across the plain below.

MALCOLM, also staring through binoculars, lies on the ridge

beside him.  SARAH is several feet behind them, her back

pressed against a tree, unwilling to go to the lip of the

ridge.

THROUGH NICK'S BINOCULARS

We see a shaky point of view of the herd running.  The

binoculars whip to the right --

-- revealing a jeep chasing the herd  Not just one jeep, in

fact, but a whole FLEET OF HUNTER PURSUIT VEHICLES!

There are two herding jeeps, one motorcycle, as speedier

mini-jeep, and, further behind, a container truck and a

wrangler's pickup truck.

Although there's a great deal of commotion below, up here it's

almost eerily silent.

ON THE RIDGE,

Nick lowers the binoculars, angry.  When he raises them again,

the sun FLARES off the lens --

EXT. THE PLAIN - DUSK

-- and when the brilliant flare clears, we're right down in

the middle of the roundup.  Engines ROAR, wheels spin and dig

in the dirt, men SHOUT and radios SQUAWK as the hunter

vehicles pursue the fleeting herd they're flushed.

The HUNTER SHOUT and SHRIEK with glee, incredulous and

thrilled by the spectacular animals they're pursuing.

One of the pursuit vehicles (a "snagger"), pulls ahead of the

others.  DIETER STARK stands in the passenger seat, holding a

long pole with a noose dangling from the end of it.

He swings the pole out over the side of the jeep and SHOUTS to

the driver.

The Driver hits the gas and the snagger leaps forward, gaining

on the herd.  Aware of the danger behind them, the herd veers

to the right, toward the cover of thick jungle --

-- but the motorcycle ROARS in from the right side, cutting

them off, herding them back out into the open.

BACK IN THE CONTAINER TRUCK,

PETER LUDLOW stands in a "conning tower," a command post in

the heaviest pursuit vehicle.  He BARKS into a walkie-talkie.

BACK ON THE SNAGGER,

the Driver can barely keep up with the twists and feints

thrown by the herd ahead of him.  Dieter CURSES and throws the

lasso pole into the back of the jeep.  Ludlow's voice

continues over the radio in Dieter's jeep.

The Driver SNAPS off the radio as Dieter grabs a long-barreled

rifle from the back of the vehicle.

THE MOTORCYCLE

guns it again, forcing the herd back into the middle of the

plain.  From the trees to the left, two heads on enormous

necks rise up in alarm.  Two APATOSAURS are startled from the

bush and lumber out across the middle of the plain.

The herd doesn't even break stride, but keeps running,

scampering after the giants and stampeding right between their

massive legs.

One smaller pachycephalosaur bolts loose, but the motorcycle

cuts it off and herds it back into the middle, which now takes

the motorcycle right through the rising and falling legs of

the apotosaurs.

The bike chases the pachy out the other side, and as the

apatosaurs disappear into the distance, the cycle isolates the

juvenile.

Another truck, a "scissor rig," spots the isolated animal.

High in the back of the truck, a HUNTER mans a tranquilizer

cannon, drawing a bead on the pachy as the cycle runs it down.

He FIRES and the tranquilizer dart hits the animal in the

neck.  Its pace slows and another HUNTER from the truck tosses

a lasso around its neck.

They crank a winch, reeling in the animal.

As the truck gain on it, two six-foot padded arms with what

look like heavy airbags on the insides open up on the front of

the truck.

As the animal is pulled in, the scissors close with a

hydraulic WHIR, trapping the animal between its airbags.

Now a pick-up rig ROARS up and drops its back gate.  The

scissor rig rolls forward, depositing the squirming pachy in

this dino-contaiment vehicle.

Two HUNTERS throw levers on the side of the scissor bars and

the scissor rig backs away, leaving the animal, still pinched

between the bars, imprisoned in the back of the pick-up rig.

The Hunters quickly fit new scissor bars onto the scissor rig

and it takes off, back into the hunt.

BACK ON THE SNAGGER,

Dieter, rifle in hand, drops down into the passenger seat,

whips a harness over himself and CLICKS it into place.  He

jabs his thumb into a flashing red button in the dashboard.

Immediately, a motor underneath the seat HUMS to life and the

seat itself telescopes, extending a good four feet out to

Dieter raises the gun, picks a CARINTHOSAUR, a red-crested

herbivore, from the rear of the fleeting herd, and takes aim.

BANG!!

The carinthosaur staggers as a tranquilizer dart sticks in

its left hindquarter.

UP ON THE RIDGE,

there is utter quiet.  Nick and the others stare wordlessly at

the spectacle below.

DOWN ON THE PLAIN,

the snagger SHUDDERS to a halt in the dirt, kicking up a huge

cloud of dust and dirt.

The motorcycle spins to a stop beside it, its DRIVER pushing

his mask up to reveal his sweat and dirt-streaked face.

The wrangler truck backs up and drops its rear door, which

CLANGS heavily to the ground.

FOUR WRANGLERS carrying wire noose poles and chains race down

the ramp and out of the truck.

Dieter jumps off the snagger.  He puts down his tranquilizer

gun, picks up a long steel rod, and walks forward slowly.

Ahead of him, the carinthosaur is still on its feet.

The sedated animal staggers, fighting to retain its balance

while it is surrounded by the wary Wranglers.

The Wranglers adjust their poles, extending them another three

feet, which allows them to stay further from the reeling, ten

foot tall animal.

Almost as one, the Wranglers flip their noose over the

stunned animal's neck.  It thrashes, but the Wranglers hold

their poles tightly, surrounding and immobilizing it.

UP ON THE RIDGE,

Nick turns away.  He can't watch.

DOWN ON THE PLAIN,

a bolero-type device, a rope with a round weight at either

end, whips around the carinthosaur's legs.  The animal THUDS

to the dirt with a SNORT of a defeat.

Ludlow steps up next to Dieter and both of them stare down at

the helpless animal.  Ludlow's breathing heavily, eyes

glowing.

The animal is still thrashing, pumping its legs crazily.

Dieter turns a knob on the side of the steel rod he's holding

and thrusts it into the defenseless animal's neck.

A blue arc of electricity CRACKS and dances over the

carinthosaur's body.  The animal convulses in pain, a

horrible, high-pitched SQUEALING rips the air.

DR. BURKE, their paleontologist, hurries forward with a

syringe.

He draws a certain amount of tranquilizer from a bottle and

injects it into the animal's thigh.

CARTER, Dieter's Driver, steps up with a can of spray paint

and quickly tags the animal with an ID number in day-glo

orange.

Dieter pulls the card with an icon of a carinthosaur from the

dashboard of the jeep and marks a black X over the drawing of

the animal.

EXT. RIDGE - NIGHT

Night has fallen over the island.  The hunters have

established base camp in an area they have trampled and

cleared just below the ridge.  Blue laser fences encircle the

perimeter.  Inside, half a dozen tents are set up around a

central campfire.

The vehicles are all parked at one end, away from the tents.

At the other end, there is a row of at least a dozen "capture

containers," cages that hold the imprisoned dinosaurs they

have already rounded up.

SARAH, MALCOLM, and NICK stand at the edge of the ridge above,

looking down at the scene.  Sarah stands a bit further back

from the others, not wanting to get too close to the edge.

VOICES waft up to them, raucous, LAUGHING, some even SINGING.

DR. JUTTSON has a pair of night-vision binoculars trained on

the cages.

Malcolm, also with binoculars, furrows his brow, seeing

something below.

THROUGH MALCOLM'S BINOCULARS,

he sees PETER LUDLOW, standing in the middle of the camp,

pointing, giving orders.

ON THE RIDGE,

Malcolm drops the binoculars.

He gives the binoculars to Sarah, who moves forward gingerly.

She puts his arm around her waits, to steady her while she is

close to the cliff edge.

She hands the binoculars to Malcolm.

THROUGH THE BINOCULARS,

Malcolm sees ROLAND, who's walking with AJAY, weapons and

equipment slung over their shoulders.

BACK ON THE RIDGE,

Nick, who has been quietly fuming next to them, now steps

forward.

He rummages through his pack, coming up with various tools.  A

hunting knife.  A bolt cutter.

He looks at her, hurt.

INT. TENT - HUNTER'S CAMP - NIGHT

In the hunters' supply tent, a case of twelve-year-old scotch

sits open amid crate after crate of weapons and ammunition.

PETER LUDLOW reaches in and pulls a bottle out.

EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

In the jungle, LUDLOW approaches a small clearing.  ROLAND is

bent over a small stake in the ground, chaining something to

it.  As Ludlow approaches and walks around him, he sees what

protest.  Roland looks up.

Ludlow laughs and shakes his head.  He takes a drink and

offers Roland one.  Roland accepts.  Ludlow notices Roland's

gun leaning against a tree.

Roland just looks at him.

Ludlow leans down, close to the baby rex, and examines it

while it thrashes on its chain.  Its mouth has been bound shut

with a leather strap.

He stops, an idea on his face.

CRACK!  The tyrannosaur, even with its jaws clamped shut,

lunges at Ludlow's face, head-butting him right across the

bridge of the nose.  Ludlow staggers back, WAITING in pain,

clutching his bleeding face.

Roland laughs.  Ludlow, like an enraged child, snatches up

Roland's gun and brings the butt down viciously on the rex's

leg.  The bone breaks with a dry SNAP and the animal HOWLS in

pain.

Roland lunges and throws Ludlow to the ground, but the damage

is done.

As his pain eases, Ludlow feels a bit foolish, but he attempts

to cover.

He gets up, brushes himself off, and heads back to the camp,

trying to salvage his dignity.  Roland watches him go.

EXT. EDGE OF HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

At the edge of the hunters' camp, NICK, SARAH, and MALCOLM

scramble down a hillside and stop at the edge of the laser

barriers.  There are three beams, each about two feet apart,

the tallest almost six feet off the ground.

Nick reaches the edge and crouches.  Sarah, helped by Malcolm,

steps up onto his back and jumps over the top, landing with a

CRUNCH.  Nick is next, given a boost by Malcolm, who is then

left alone on the other side.

He backs up a few steps, jogs right at the lasers, then

springs off his good leg --

-- and does the Fosburry Flop right over the top.  He lands

with a THUD, to the silent admiration of the other two.

FURTHER IN THE CAMP,

the three of them creep along, hiding behind a stack of fuel

barrels.  They lean around the edge for a look.  They're

directly behind the row of vehicle.

They move, into the open, covering the ground between them and

the jeeps.  Reaching them, Nick hits the dirt and wriggles

under the first one.  Malcolm and Sarah stand lookout.

UNDER THE JEEP,

Nick pulls the bolt cutter from his back pocket.  He squirms

along until he finds the jeep's fuel line --

-- and he snips it.  He ducks out of the way just as the

stream of fuel begins to pour into the dirt.

MALCOLM AND SARAH

move slowly down the line, standing watch as Nick crawls out

from under the first jeep and proceeds to the second.  They

hear another SNIP, then keep moving, to cover him as he moves

to the third.

From in the distance, Malcolm hears a sound, a faint,

high-pitched SCREECHING.  He turns and looks to that

direction.

EXT. JUNGLE CLEARING - NIGHT

It's the baby T-rex, still SCREENING.  Up in a nearby tree,

ROLAND and AJAY have spread some broken branches crosswise to

form a high hide of their own about ten feet off the ground.

They wait.

Roland raises his binoculars.  The light of the camp spills

all the way out here, illuminating some of the jungle.  He

scans it, searching for any sign of movement.

EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

Back in the camp, Sarah, Malcolm, and Nick have finished with

all of the vehicles except the badly battered one, which is

parked some distance away, undergoing repairs.  The motor pool

area is now a soggy lake of spilled gasoline.

The saboteurs walk casually across the camp, unnoticed in the

drunken revelry.  They pass several tents, the shadows of the

partiers visible as they move inside.

They continue across the camp and arrive at the other side --

-- to face the caged animals.  The carinthosaur that was

tranquilized earlier stands there dully, eyes heavy and

glassy, still under the effects.  They pass a stegosaur, its

row of fine bristling.

And finally they reach the largest cage, which houses a

triceratops the size of a pickup truck, Nick pulls out his

trusty bolt cutters.  He looks at them, a glint in his eye.

INT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

In one of the hunter tents, PETER LUDLOW leans over the

satellite recon pictures of the island, planning the next

day's assault with DIETER and DR. BURKE, their paleontologist.

There are small wooden dinosaur models scattered around the

photos, indicating where certain species can be found.

He trails off.  A low RUMBLING sound can be heard outside, and

the little wooden dinosaurs start shaking on the board.

They look at each other.  The RUMBLING gets louder.  Outside,

someone SHOUTS; on the board, the little dinosaurs start

hopping and bouncing from the vibrations, the SHOUTS outside

turn to SCREAMS, they turn and look at the back of the tent --

-- and the triceratops bursts right through the canvas!

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

HUNTERS go flying as the tent-covered triceratops, its horns

tearing through the canvas, RUMBLES across the camp.  Men

SHOUT in alarm, the triceratops BELLOWS in anger and

confusion, chaos reigns.

In the crush of PEOPLE running every which way, MALCOLM and

SARAH are swept off in one direction while NICK is buffeted

in another.  They SHOUT, but cannot be heard over the frey.

The triceratops, blinded by the canvas shroud, stomps right

through the fire in the middle of the camp AND THE TENT BURSTS

INTO FLAME.

Now really upset, the animal panics and lashes out in all

directions, blasting through tents, demolishing and/or setting

ablaze anything that gets in its way.  Its considerable

hindquarters SLAM into a parked jeep, sending it rolling

across the camp.

The jeep flattens the largest tent and SLAMS down on its side.

Its broken gas line SPRAYS gas over the ground, the gas hits

one of the dozens of small blazes the triceratops has left in

its wake, and the flame shoots up the ribbon of gas.

The jeep explodes.

OUT IN THE JUNGLE CLEARING,

Roland and Ajay, up in the tree, leap to their feet as a

fireball rises up from the camp in the distance.

BACK IN THE CAMP,

the rest of the newly-freed animals now storm through the

camp.  The blue laser barriers bounce crazily and go out as

the sending units are trampled underfoot by the fleeing

animals.

AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP,

Nick takes advantage of the downed lasers to slip part the

bordere of the camp and disappear into the jungle in one

direction, while Malcolm and Sarah vanish in the other.

The burning tent, which was the equipment tent, now detonates

in a series of smaller EXPLOSIONS.

Dieter and several others are knocked to the ground by the

series of concessive blasts.  He drags himself up onto all

fours, charred and bruised.  A burning tire rolls slowly past

him, spinning to a stop --

-- at ROLAND's feet.  Dieter looks up at him.

OUT IN THE JUNGLE,

Nick breaks out into the jungle clearing, the same one where

Ajay and Roland had their blind.  He sees the baby tyrannosaur

chained to the stake.

He goes to the animal, which now BLEATS in pain, its broken

leg hanging at an odd angle.  With one strong tug, Nick pulls

the stake out of the ground.

BACK IN THE CAMP,

Roland surveys the destruction.  The fire has spread and

several tents are now tongues of flame flapping in the air,

the animals are gone or going, and their personnel are

scattered and terrified.  PETER LUDLOW, breathless, face

smeared with dirt, and smoke, staggers up to Roland.

He holds up the sniped padlock from one of the animal cages.

EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

MALCOLM and SARAH race back up onto the ridge trail, where the

green AAV is parked.  NICK bursts around from the other side

of the car.

Malcolm opens the rear door.

With a piercing SHRIEK, the BABY TYRANNOSAUR, now in the back

of the AAV, flings itself at the open doorway, jaws SNAPPING

just short of Malcolm's nose.

He SLAMS the door.

DOWN IN THE HUNTERS' CAMP,

Roland hears the commotion up on the ridge and looks up.

BACK UP ON THE RIDGE,

Malcolm is confronting Nick.

He runs around and leaps in the driver's seat.  Sarah slips

into the passenger seat, quickly, leaving Malcolm no choice

but the rear.

EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

The AAV SLAPS through the jungle foliage.  From inside the

car, we can hear the baby tyrannosaur SCREAMING in anger.

INT. AAV - NIGHT

The baby writhes on the base seat next to Malcolm, who has

flattened himself against the door, as far away from the

animal as possible.

Malcolm leans over the enraged animal and cranks up its

window.  The tyrannosaur SLASHES with one of its powerful hind

legs, ripping the flesh of his forearm.  He SHOUTS in pain.

Outside, the listening jungle whizzes by.

EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

Up in the high hide, EDDIE, DR. JUTTSON, and KELLY are

standing watch, scanning the jungle for any sign of their

returning comrades.

Juttson yanks the night-vision binoculars away from his face

as he spots the AAV, pulling up to the base camp a couple

hundred yards away.

They all turn and look, but Eddie furrows his brow, watching

them pull the wounded animal from the back seat.

EXT. CAMP - NIGHT

SARAH and NICK carry the SCREECHING baby tyrannosaur in their

arms, headed for the trailer.  MALCOLM, holding his bleeding

arm, isn't far behind.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

SARAH and NICK bring the SCREAMING infant to the metal dining

table and hold it down.  MALCOLM is right behind them.

Sarah turns away from a drawer of medical supplies, holding a

small syringe.  Her shirt is streaked with blood from the

baby's injured leg.

Nick tightens his grip on the animal and Sarah makes an

injection into its thigh, over its loudly voiced objections.

Sarah picks up a small ultrasound transducer and runs it over

the animal's leg.  A green and white skeletal image appears on

a monitor next to the table.

They peer closely at the monitor.

The tyrannosaur, still in pain, SHRIEKS again.

EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

Through their binoculars, the rest of the group watches the

trailer carefully.  Even inside, the animal's SCREECHES are

clearly audible.  Kelly is getting scared.

From the trailer, the baby lets out a long, plaintive

SHRIEK --

One by one, Eddie, Kelly, and Juttson turn around and stare

into the night jungle.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

NICK holds the animal while SARAH fits an aluminum foil cuff

around its injured leg and paints it with a coating of resin.

MALCOLM, at the window, stares out anxiously.  The animal

thrashes again.

Her eyes fall on Nick.  She holds out her hand, urgently.

He spits his bubblegum into the palm of her hand.  The baby

rex CRIES OUT again.

EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

From the swaying jungle, there is another answering ROAR.

And this one's closer.

In the high hide, the rest of the group stares, trembling.  In

the distance, a flock of birds SHRIEKS and takes flight as the

tops of some trees move, a whole section of forest suddenly

coming alive, as if brushed by wind.

But it's not the wind.

They hear noises, THUDS in the jungle.  And then another

section of forest trembles.  Closer.  Another flock of birds

bursts out of the treetops and swarms past the high hide.

Dr. Juttson puts an arm around Kelly, instinctively pulling

her closer to him.  Eddie WHISPERS urgently into the

walkie-talkie.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

There is a radio box mounted on the far wall of the trailer.

The speaker BUZZES urgently with Eddie's VOICE.

On the table, Sarah is frantically molding Nick's bubblegum

into place on the makeshift splint.  But the baby rex,

regaining its strength, is thrashing again.

Malcolm moves to answer the radio, but Sarah SHOUTS to him.

Forsaking the radio, Malcolm moves to the medicine drawer and

comes up with what she wants.  Working fast, he draws twenty

cc's of the pink liquid.

They ignore him as Sarah grabs the syringe and makes the

injection.

EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

Eddie has given up on whispering as he clutches the radio

desperately.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

Nick, Sarah, and Malcolm spin around at hearing that terrible

piece of information.

He bolts over to the wall speaker and hits the button.

A deafening ROAR sound from just outside the trailer,

followed immediately by a CRASHING sound.  They whirl and look

to the window, just in time to see --

--  the AAV tumbling by, rolling on its side!

There is another ROAR, and the baby, on the table, ROARS in

response.  Outside the window, the head of a full-grown

TYRANNOSAURUS REX lowers and peers inside.

Malcolm, Sarah, and Nick all freeze in absolute terror.

The rex outside GURGLES, making material cooing noises.  The

baby rex, calm for the first time, GURGLES back.

But across the trailer, in the opposite window, ANOTHER T-REX

HEAD SUDDENLY APPEARS.

This one ROARS, deeply, a roar so low and loud it rattles

anything in the trailer that isn't tied down.

Nick, hands shaking, grabs the shoulder video camera he used

earlier.  He whips out the cassette that's in there, hurls it

into an open duffel bag with half a dozen others, SLAMS a

fresh cassette in, and flicks the "ON" switch.

Sarah and Malcolm, meanwhile, hurry to the other end of the

trailer, carrying the baby rex.  Outside, the two adult rexes

stay with them, walking in the same direction, watching them

through the window.

EXT. TRAILER - NIGHT

Seen from outside, the light inside the trailers clearly

illuminates Sarah and Malcolm as they carry the bay rex.  The

adult rexes tower over the trailer, twice as tall and nearly

as long.  They walk slowly alongside it, hunched over,

watching their infant.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

At the door to the trailer, Sarah un-muzzles the frantic baby.

Malcolm reaches for the door handle.

He dives down on the floor under them, pointing the video

camera up at the door, getting the best shot.  Malcolm takes a

breath, turns the knob, and throws open the door.

Outside, the enormous rex heads pause for a moment, staring,

surprised.

Although terrified, Sarah actually starts to sing.

The baby, excited, wriggles free of them and lands on the

ground outside.  Not wasting a second, Malcolm SLAMS the door

shut.

The three of them freeze, not daring to breath.  Outside, they

can hear the SNUFFLING and COOING of the animals as they

inspect their young --

-- and then the soft THUD of their footsteps, growing fainter

as they move away.

From the wall, EDDIE'S VOICE comes over the radio, relieved.

EXT. HIGH HIDE - NIGHT

EDDIE, JUTTSON, and KELLY sag back against the railings of the

high hide.

MALCOLM'S VOICE comes over the radio.

She takes the radio, her voice shaky.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

MALCOLM is at the radio.

Malcolm slump against the wall of the trailer.  SARAH and

NICK sit on the floor leaning against the opposite wall,

completely drained.  Sarah pulls out her pocket recorder and

speaks shakily into it.

They laugh weakly.

Immediately:

They all laugh.

He goes to the desk and picks up the heavy gray satellite

phone that's resting in a battery pack.  The front panel

lights up, a brilliant green.

But from the wall speaker, the radio CRACKLES and EDDIE'S

VOICE breaks through, soft and empty.

Malcolm and Sarah look at the speaker box.

A low RATTLE sneaks into the trailer.  Malcolm, Sarah, and

Nick takes a step forward from the walls, looking around.  The

RATTLE gets louder, the trailer shakes and vibrates,

everything in it starts to BANG against the walls --

-- and something huge SMASHES into the side of the trailer.

They're all thrown against the far wall, there is an

earsplitting CRACK of electricity, the entire trailer rocks

and sparks a brilliant blue, and then everything goes black.

The satellite phone flies out of Malcolm's hands and SMACKS

against the wall.  It lands on the floor, its number pad still

glowing green.

Nick crawls over and looks out one of the windows.  Outside,

the flank of one of the tyrannosaurs wipes past the window,

revealing the second tyrannosaur, charging straight at the

trailer!

They hurl themselves at the nearest solid object and hang on

for dear life.  The charging rex SLAM into the side of the

trailer, which rocks up on one side, BANGS back  down, and is

quickly RAMMED again by the furious animal.  This time the

entire trailer rolls over, completely upside down.

Sarah, Nick, and Malcolm let go of their precarious handholds

and drop onto the ceiling.  The tables, chairs, lab equipment,

everything that's bolted down clings to the floor above them;

everything that isn't RAINS DOWN ON THEM.

But the rexes aren't done.  The trailer JOLTS INTO MOTION,

sliding forwards.

SEEN FROM OUTSIDE,

the upside down trailer, which is the rear of the two

trailers, slides along the muddy ground, pushing up earth in

front of it.

IN THE TRAILER,

Malcolm, frantic, crawls up to a window to get a look outside.

He looks down and sees a T-rex footprint in the earth outside

as they move past it.

He cranks his head to get a look at the direction in which

they are being pushed.  His eyes widen at something he sees

outside the window.

Sure enough, out the back window, we see a few more feet of

muddy earth, and then nothing but inky black.  The three of

them look at each other for a moment --

-- and then crawl like hell toward the other end of the

trailer.  The opposite end reaches the edge of the cliff and

starts up to tip ever-so-slightly downward.  They reach the

accordion-like connector and Malcolm crawls into it.

THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD OF THE FRONT TRAILER,

which is right-side-up, Malcolm can see the two rexes hard at

it, pushing the front end of the trailer.

IN THE REAR TRAILER,

Nick has a pretty good grip at the top of the trailer, but

Sarah can only cling to an air vent in the ceiling as stuff

starts to roll and tumble past her, headed downhill.

The angle increases, the trailer dips, and now stuff starts to

freefall, right past her, some SMASHING her in the head.

Malcolm, still in the connecting tube, grabs hold.  Sarah,

starting to be pulled downward, paws at the refrigerator,

getting a g rip on the handle.  The door, held by a safety

latch, doesn't open.

Below Sarah, debris falls to the rear window of the trailer.

Through the CRACKING glass, we can see the surf, CRASHING five

hundred feet below.

The refrigerator bolts suddenly CRUNCH free of the wall.  The

box strains on its power cord.

Still clinging to the handle, Sarah swings wildly as it starts

to come loose, swaying above her.

The safety latch on the door gives, it swings open, and a

shower of food BANGS off of her as gravity empties the

contents.

Sarah loses her grip and plummets through the now-vertical

trailer.  She SCREAMS, covers her head, and SMASHES into the

rear window.  The glass spiderwebs, but does not break.

FIVE HUNDRED FEET BELOW,

an enormous wave POUNDS the rocky shore.  Above, Sarah is a

tiny figure, sprawled out on the glass, held invisibly by the

breaking window.

IN THE TRAILER,

Nick SHOUTS to her.

Sarah, stunned by the fall, blinks a few times, regaining her

senses.  She looks down, at the crashing surf so far below.

For a person with a fear of heights, this is a real drag.  As

she stares, the rocks seem to move even farther away from her.

She blanches; the world spins around her.

Her breath fogs the cracked glass.  Slowly, she tries to get

up, caaaaaarefully pulling herself up to her hands and knees.

But as she puts pressures on her hands, the glass CRACKS even

more, tiny spiderwebs shooting out around her fingers.  The

whole glass panel sags, bowing out around the bottom of the

trailer.

UP ABOVE HER,

Malcolm looks down and sees the satellite phone precariously

balanced on one leg of the kitchen table, its number pad still

glowing green.  Nick is closest to it.

SARAH

looks to her right, at a metal grating that runs along the

wall of the trailer.  She shifts her weight, leaning on one

hand to reach for the grating with the other.

NICK

reaches for the satellite phone, its antenna just six inches

from his outstretched fingers.

SARAH

leans toward the metal grating, all hairline cracks shoot out

around her pivot hand, shaking through the glass.  The

splintered glass spread like a disease, it reaches the edge

of the frame --

-- and her hand CRACKS right through the glass.  She GASPS and

pulls her hand out, but now she knees SMASH through the

glass.

NICK

has two fingers on the phone, but suddenly the whole trailer

shudders and the heavy phone tips off the table leg and falls.

SARAH

lunges for the metal grating and clings to it just as the

heavy phone whizzes past her head and SMASHES into the glass,

opening up a huge hole in the center of the back window.

UNDERNEATH THE TRAILER,

glass, food, lab equipment, and the precious satellite phone

fall out the broken window and SMASH on the rocks far below.

IN THE CLEANING,

the trailers are split, like an L, the rear trailer hanging

straight down, the forward one resting on the edge of the

cliff.  Satisfied with their work, the T-rexes turn and lumber

back into the jungle.

IN THE TRAILER,

Sarah climbs carefully up the metal grating.  Above her, Nick

lowers himself as far as he can, reaching for her.

ON THE CLIFFSIDE,

we realize the hanging trailer halted its descent because one

corner of it is wedged in the branches of a tree that grows

out from the muddy cliff.

But now those branches SPLINTER.

IN THE TRAILER,

Malcolm sees the bellows, the connector between the trailers,

stretch as the lower trailer JERKS and dips lower.

BELOW HIM,

Sarah mountain-climbs through the trailer's kitchen,

inadvertently kicking the faucet on as she struggles for

purchase.

OUTSIDE,

the tree branch SNAPS and the trailer jerks, stretching down

again.  The bellows expands to its full length, stretching

like a Slinky.

INSIDE,

Nick knows he has to hurry.  He climbs down, bouncing off the

built-in furniture, moving ever closer to Sarah.

But Sarah slips and loses her grip, dropping a few feet.  She

gabs hold of the sink, the flowing water spraying her face.

EXT. JUNGLE - NIGHT

EDDIE CARR is in the driver's seat of the jeep, racing through

the jungle as fast as he can.

The foliage SMACKS the windshield, then clears suddenly,

revealing the endangered trailers on the cliffside ahead of

him.  The jeep bounces through the deep footprints left by the

rex and SKIDS to a halt.

INT. TRAILER - NIGHT

Sarah loses her grip on the sink and falls, SMASHING into the

frame of the half-broken rear window again.

OUTSIDE,

Eddie bolts out of the car and runs to the front trailer.  He

SHOUTS in through the broken front window.

IN THE REAR TRAILER,

The three look up from their precarious positions.

OUTSIDE,

Eddie turns and run back to the jeep.  He grabs a coil of

rope, secures one end around a tree, and hurries back to the

trailer.

IN THE REAR TRAILER,

Eddie dashes over the mess in the front trailer and crawls out

into the extended connector.  He peers over the edge, down

into the second trailer, and tosses the rope.

The rope falls through the center of the trailer, its end

dangling all the way out the smashed rear window.  But the

trailer SHUDDERS, starting to move again.

OUTSIDE,

Eddie runs out of the trailer in time to see the wheels

dragging forward through the mud as the weight of the dangling

trailer pulls the whole thing toward the edge of the cliff.

He runs for the jeep and grabs hold of the power winch on the

front grill.

Behind him, the trailer rolls closer to the edge of the cliff.

Eddie races back to the trailer, pulling out a length of cable

behind him.  He runs up to the still-moving trailer, dives for

its towing hook, the cable goes taut --

-- and he falls short.  Just by six inches, but he's out of

cable.

INSIDE THE TRAILER,

Nick and Sarah are now together, clinging to the rope near the

bottom of the trailer as it shifts around them.  Malcolm is

further up, also clinging to the rope.

OUTSIDE,

dirt and rocks pile up around the wheels and spill over the

edge of the cliff.

Eddie, back at the jeep, reels out more winch cable.  He turns

and races back to the trailer just as gravity starts to LIFT

THE FRONT END OFF THE GROUND!

Eddie dives again, and this time the cable hook CLICKS

securely into the trailer's towing hook.  The trailer lurches

toward the edge of the cliff and stops.

But the jeep is jerked forward by the sudden pressure.

IN THE TRAILER,

Malcolm clings to the rope in the middle of the trailer while

Nick and Sarah try to struggle up it, but a sudden dig knocks

them back, and their hands slide down the line.  SCREAMING,

they slide through the trailer and their feet SMASH through

the remains of the rear window.

Regaining hold of the rope at the very end, the two of them

now find themselves hanging out of the rear end of the trailer,

dangling over the rocky shore below.

IN THE JEEP,

Eddie hits the gas and the tires slosh in the mud, trying to

get a grip.  The jeep pulls just enough to lower the front

trailer back to earth.  But the tires spin, fighting to hold

it there.

ON THE CLIFFSIDE

Sarah and Nick dangle, desperate.

IN THE JEEP

Eddie CHUNKS the shifter into four wheel drive and GUNS the

engine.  As the motor ROARS, the sound is topped by another

ROAR, in the distance.

And this one's not a machine.  But Eddie doesn't hear it.  He

GUNS the engine again.  There is another ROAR from the jungle.

Eddie hears this one.  He darts a look at the side view

mirror.  In it, he sees one of the TYRANNOSAURS bolt out of

the jungle behind him.

He GASPS and looks at the other side view.  In it, he sees the

OTHER REX racing toward him.

The tyrannosaurs STOMP forward to confront the ROARING jeep.

The first rex bends over, CHOMPS down on the rear tire, and

lifts the car to its teeth.

But the spinning tire LINGS in the rex's mouth, burning it.

Surprised by the fight in this foe, the rex loses its grip and

the jeep BANGS back down onto the ground.

Eddie, horrified, dives down under the steering wheel, to get

away.  The gas pedal pops up --

-- which makes the trailer pitch over the side of the cliff.

But the rex STOMPS down on the jeep to prevent its escape.

The trailers stop.

Now the rexes lean down, over the jeep, and focus on Eddie,

who still covers under the steering wheel.  The first rex

SNAPS at him, hitting the steering column with it, leaving Eddie fully

exposed.

He SCREAMS and the second rex lashes in, seizing him in its

teeth and tossing him out of the car.

Eddie pops up into the air between the two rexes, both their

heads flash at him at the same time, and in a split-second, he

disappears between their teeth.

Now completely ignored, the jeep rolls freely forward and the

trailers drop over the edge of the cliff.

INSIDE THE TRAILER,

Nick, Sarah and Malcolm cling to each other and the rope as

the trailers fall around them.  The windows flash by as the

trailers plummet, equipment BANGS and SCRAPES them, but they

hold on to the rope, still tied to the tree, for dear life.

ON THE CLIFFSIDE,

the trailers slide the rest of the way, exposing the three,

who pop out the space where the front windshield was.

Dangling from the rope, they look up and see the jeep, which

is now rolling to the edge of the cliff.

It falls, past them, and the whole mess EXPLODES on the rocks

below.  Finally, it is silent, except for the sound of the

surf.

EXT. CLEARING - NIGHT

It's quiet up here too, the rexes nowhere to be seen.  At the

cliff, a hand appears from over the edge.  Then another.

SARAH pulls herself up, back onto solid ground, then comes

NICK, then both of them reach over and help MALCOLM up over

the edge.

They collapse there, in the mud, completely exhausted.

He looks at the other two.  They glance around, then drop

their heads.  Sarah hears a SOUND in the distance.

From the edge of the jungle, a cris-cross of flashlight beams

moves toward them.  But rather than the three or four that

would signify their own group, there are nearly twenty of

them.

The HUNTERS, PETER LUDLOW is in the lead, ROLAND and AJAY

with him.  DIETER is there too, shepherding KELLY and DR.

JUTTSON along in front of him.

Malcolm sees Kelly, they call out to each other, and race

together.  Malcolm falls to his knees and hugs her as tightly

as he possibly can.

Roland looks around, at the mess that was their base camp.

EXT. RUINED BASE CAMP - NIGHT

In the ruins of the first team's base camp, the survivors of

the night's two separate catastrophes stand face to face, in a

heated argument.

MALCOLM sits off to the side, still holding Kelly in his arms,

just looking down at the ground and shaking his head.  There's

something about his posture of defeat that is far more ominous

than any of the hot tempers that are flaring.  LUDLOW rants to

SARAH while DIETER looms menacingly over NICK.

DR. JUTTSON has encountered DR. BURKE.

Dieter continues to get in Nick's face.

He points at Malcolm, who is still off to the side, sitting in

stunned silence.  Malcolm looks up and nods, slowly.  The

grimness of their situation sinks in.

EXT. HUNTERS' CAMP - NIGHT

Back in the hunters' now-demolished camp, members of the two

groups combine their diminished supplies.  They have half a

dozen large plastic containers of water, thirty-seven

containers of food, ranging from Ziploc bags to aluminum tins,

a variety of weapons, mot of them borne on the hips or

shoulders of the HUNTER team, the charred and scraggly

remnants of several pieces of now-useless electrical

equipment, a flare gun and several flares, somebody's tattered

paperback ("Crime and Punishment"), a box of Hershey bars, and

a cartoon of Marlboros.

ROLAND supervises the assembling of the resources, which are

displayed in front of him.  LUDLOW, NICK, SARAH, JUTTSON, and

MALCOLM, who is still holding KELLY close to him, are with

him.  They hold their discussion in quiet tones.

Ludlow refers to the charred and trampled satellite

photographs of the island, which are still mostly legible.

Malcolm looks up sharply.

Malcolm shepherds Kelly away from the conversation and mutters

something to her quietly in the background.

Dieter brandishes his weapon.

Malcolm rejoins the conversation, alone.  He keeps his voice

low.

Roland looks at him.

Malcolm just shakes his head, then turns and walks back to

Kelly.  Roland turns to the others.

EXT. ISLAND - NIGHT

The SURVIVORS set forth, marching through the jungle in a

column.  Two HUNTERS strap on small shoulder-mounted

servo-flashlights.  Wires run from the lights end in

sensor pads which they stick to the skin of their necks.  Thus

attached, when the hunters turn their heads, the servo-lights

turn with them, illuminating whatever direction they look in.

MALCOLM screws the barrel into the Lindstradt rifle and slings

it over his shoulder as he marches, limping heavily.  He looks

down at KELLY, who is marching alongside him.  His face shows

the deepest of regret.  He shakes his head, cursing himself.

He looks away as Kelly looks up at him, questioning.  ROLAND

falls into step with Malcolm and notices his limp.

Malcolm looks at him, then looks away without answering.

Malcolm glances at Kelly, who has taken a slightly faster pace

and is a few steps ahead of them now.

Roland follows his gaze forward, to Kelly, who's about ten

yards ahead now.

AHEAD OF THEM,

Kelly can hear their voices, faint, but clear.  They are not

as far away as they think they are.

Kelly's face shows she heard that part.

BEHIND HER,

Malcolm, unaware, continues with Roland.

Every person on the trail within earshot has stopped and is

staring at Malcolm, shaken by his words.  Roland grabs Malcolm

by the shirt collar and pulls him close, GROWLING in his ear.

Malcolm just blinks.  This guy's in charge.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAWN

As a purple dawn dissolves the night sky, the SURVIVORS

stagger on, exhausted.  Some are starting to tire, and there

are spaces in the column.  MALCOLM's limp seems to be getting

worse.  NICK reaches out, to take Malcolm's pack, but Malcolm

swats his hand away.

KELLY, still ahead of him, falls into step with SARAH.

Sarah looks at her.

She puts an arm around her.  Kelly looks up at her, grateful.

The long march continues.

UP AT THE FRONT,

NICK catches up to ROLAND.

Roland looks at him, steely, then SHOUTS to the group.

Immediately, the marchers drop where they stood, absolutely

drained.

AT THE REAR OF THE GROUP,

DRS. BURKE and JUTTSON are bickering.

NEARBY,

MALCOLM checks Nick's bag of videotapes, making sure they're

still dry and undamaged.  Sarah comes up, watching him.

He doesn't look at her.  She sits down beside her.

BEHIND THEM,

Dr. Burke, furious, has stalked away from Juttson and sits

down on a rock.  H does a double take, noticing something

behind the rock.  He leans over and picks it up.

It's an oval shape about eight inches long, with a pebbled

exterior.  A dinosaur egg.

Burke's face lights up, fascinated, and he carefully pieces

the egg in a satchel he wears over one shoulder.

AT THE REAR OF THE GROUP,

DIETER STARK pulls a wad of toilet paper from his pack, drops

the pack on the ground, and turns to the Hunter nearest him --

CARTER, his driver, who has his back turned.

He steps off the path, into the jungle.  But as we come around

the front of Carter, we see he's wearing a Walkman, the

headphone BLARING tinnily in his ears.

And he didn't hear a word.

EXT. THICK OF THE JUNGLE - DAY

Only a few feet off the path, it's primary forest, the growth

so thick that almost all sunlight is obscured.  DIETER claws

forward until he finds a suitable spot to relieve himself.

He clears away a bunch of leaves and debris and raises his

hand to his belt buckle.  He freezes, hearing something we

didn't.  He glances around, head darting, alert to any danger.

Nothing there.  Just a few distant ANIMAL CALLS--

-- and s SCURRYING around to his left.

Dieter snaps his head in that direction.  At first, he sees

nothing, but as he moves closer, gun extended in front of him,

he sees a small dinosaur, a COMPSOGRATHUS, the same

chicken-sized animal Cathy saw on the beach so long ago.

He pulls the steel rod out of a loop in his belt and touches

it to the compy's back.  The blue bolt of electricity CRACKS

and dances over the compy's body and it convulses in pain.

The wounded compsognathus scurries back into the jungle,

whimpering.  Dieter clambers through the foliage ten or twelve

paces, pushes aside two large palm fronds, and steps out

into --

-- more jungle.  He stops, puzzled, not sure if he went back

or forward.

He looks behind him.  He pauses, recalculating the path he

took coming into the jungle, MUTTERING to himself, gesturing

with his hands, retracing his steps.

He adjusts his angle slightly to the right and heads off in

that direction.  But after five or six hard-fought steps, he

stops again.  Still nothing but jungle.

ON THE TRAIL,

Dieter's cries are faint, but audible.  The only Marchers hear

enough to hear him is CARTER, but the Walkman is blaring in

his ears.

IN THE JUNGLE,

Dieter hears that SCURRYING sound again, this time from his

right.  He adjusts his angle again and SCRAPES through the

foliage, moving faster and faster.

Panicking, he ties to run, but the roots rise high out of the

ground in the jungle, and he trips on one and falls flat on

his face.

He looks up.  The SCURRYING sound comes again, this time ten

times louder than before, like a hundred feet coming at him.

Dieter GASPS as something rushes in at him.

He whirls to his right.  Whatever it is rushes in from that

side as well.  And the left.  And behind him.  Dieter

scrambles up into a sitting position --

-- and laughs.  He is surrounded by at least forty compys now,

the same as the one he wounded.

For a long moment, they just stare at him.  Slowly, he brings

his gun around, to point it at them.

As one, the compys SHRIEK and hurl themselves forward,

covering Dieter's body.  Their teeth and claws FLASH as they

each try to grab a scrap of his flesh, tearing savagely.

Dieter SCREAMS and flails, waving his arms and legs wildly.

Some of the tiny animals lose their grip and sail off,

SMASHING into trees or the ground.  But dozens of others hang

on, and Dieter falls over backwards, now lying on his back on

the ground.

Hysterical, he fights like hell to get to his feet, SCREAMING,

shaking, swatting the compys loose.  He spins, and that tactic

seems to work, as the compys themselves begin to panic and

drop off of him.  But he also loses his grip on his weapon,

which goes flying, landing in the thick foliage five or six

feet from him.

Losing the attack, the compys turn and dart away en masse,

stopping ten yards away from him.

But they turn and regroup, facing him in a line, hopping up

and down, CHIRPING and SHRIEKING.

Dieter bounds into the foliage, looking for his gun.  But the

compys follow him in and he's forced to flee, abandoning his

lost weapon.

Ten feet on, he stops, knowing he's screwed without the gun.

He turns to face the pursuing compys.

They stop.

Dieter charges them, SHOUTING, waving his arms.

The compys turn and run.  Dieter stops.

The compys stop.  They stare back at him.  There is a moment

of quiet, then they start to hop again, CHIRPING and

SQUEALING.

Dieter, tired of this game, turns and runs away.

The compys follow.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

From the front of the convoy, ROLAND SHOUTS out.

The exhausted marchers drag themselves back to their feet and

start to march again.  At the rear of the group, someone taps

Carter, who is still listening to his music.  Carter gets up,

hoists his backpack, and marches away.

Behind him, Dieter's pack is left, forgotten, on the jungle

trail.

EXT. DEEP IN THE JUNGLE - DAY

DIETER stumbles along, exhausted.  He reaches the edge of a

stream that runs under the foliage, and his feet slip on the

stones.  He falls, into the rocky stream.

Behind him, the army of compys pours over the little hill he

just crested.  They disappear for a moment, down an incline --

-- And then swarm over his body.  In a frenzy of splashing,

Dieter shrugs them off and crawls away, through the stream.

He gets to his feet but falls again, this time over a log.  A

geyser of water splashes up in the air behind the log as

Dieter drops out of sight.

The compys leap over the log and disappear from view too,

throwing up their own splashes of water.  SCREECHING,

CHIRPING, and the sound of TEARING flesh mixes with Dieter's

SCREAMS.

Now, as more compys leap over the log and splash into the

water below, the geysers that shoot up into our field of view

are pink.

And then they're a deep, deep red.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

The group has stopped again.  Near the rear, SARAH, NICK,

MALCOLM, LUDLOW, and ROLAND are in a tense conversation with

CARTER.

Roland looks at them, thinking.  Finally:

He turns and heads back to the front of the column.

They look at each other, appalled, but the column starts to

move.  Numbed, shocked, but left with no choice, they move on,

one by one.

EXT. ISLAND RIDGE - DUSK

The column of MARCHERS has finally reached the island ridge,

where they are silhouetted against the setting sun.  They're

taking a break, sprawled out on rocks or over the ground.

MALCOLM sits next to KELLY, who's sitting on a log.

She doesn't look at him, just gets up and walks away, going to

sit over next to SARAH.

Malcolm watches, pained, but Sarah puts an arm around her and

makes a "she's okay" gesture to Malcolm.

AT THE RIDGE,

ROLAND steps up to the very edge and peers into the island

interior.  From his vantage point, he's able to see all the

way to the far side of the island, a rim of herd black cliff,

miles away.  Between here and the cliffs there is nothing but

gently undulating jungle.

He refers to one of the satellite recon photos.

MALCOLM is next to him.

Roland looks around at the exhausted MARCHERS.

EXT. CAMPSITE - NIGHT

The group has made camp in the jungle.  The mood is somber,

most of the MARCHERS asleep already.  Three or four tents have

been put up.

IN ONE TENT,

KELLY sits quietly in a corner, her eyes wide, knees hugged up

to his chest.  SARAH comes in.

Sarah takes off her outer shirt and hangs it over a bar to dry

the broad red smear across its front.

IN THE CAMPSITE,

all is still.  The nocturnal jungle HOOTS and BUZZES around

the sleeping marchers.

In his tent, ROLAND abruptly sits up.  As if he heard

something.  He looks out the open flap.  In the middle of the

campsite, he sees AJAY stop in his tracks, head cocked.

Roland gets up and goes outside, joining Ajay in the middle of

the camp.

Roland looks at him.  This isn't so good.  He looks out at the

shifting jungle.  He notices a thin plume of smoke rising up

over the trees just barely outside the edge of camp.

IN SARAH'S TENT,

Kelly and Sarah have laid down on top of sleeping bags, trying

to get a few minutes' rest.  Sarah's shirt hangs over them,

swaying in the gentle breeze coming through the open flap.

As the shirt dangles there, swinging softly from side to side,

we notice the broad red smear across the front.  Oh, that's

right -- it's blood.

The baby T-rex's blood.

AT THE RIDGE OF CAMP,

the thin plume of smoke leads down to a tiny cooking fire

that's been lit by DR. BURKE.

He's set a small frying pan on top of it, and now he CRACKS

the dinosaur egg he picked up earlier into the pan.

Roland and Ajay run up behind him.

Burke leaps out of the way as Roland kicks dirt on the fire.

BMBB!

Roland, Ajay, and Burke all freeze.  What was that?

IN SARAH'S TENT,

Sarah and Kelly sit up.  They felt it too.

BMBB!

AT THE COCKING FIRE,

Ajay turns and trots away a few steps, then stops cold,

staring down at the ground.

BMBB!

A recent rain has all left puddles scattered around the camp, and

impact tremors now create ripples in the puddles -- concentric

circles spreading to the outer edges.

BMBB!

IN SARAH'S TENT,

Sarah and Kelly are frantically sealing up any opened food

into Ziploc bags.

BMBB!

Now they leap into Sarah's sleeping bag, to seal themselves,

and draw the zipper up, all the way around.

Outside, the silhouette of the rex's head passes by the tent.

Sarah works faster, her fingers struggling to close the last

few inches, but --

-- the rex head pokes through the flap of the tent.  It

sniffs, SNORTING the air in and out.  It looks around the

tent.

It sniffs Sarah's hanging shirt, the one that is stained with

the blood of the baby tyrannosaur.  The adult tyrannosaur

GURGLES again, COOING and cocking its head curiously.

In the sleeping bag, Sarah and Kelly's eyes are barely

visible, wide in panic.  The rex sniffs and nudges the bag,

trying to figure out what this thing is.

It rolls the bag over once, decides it's uninteresting, and

then rises, straights up --

-- taking the whole tent with it!  The stakes pop out of the

ground as the tent rises high up into the air and flutters

away, leaving the sleeping bag fully exposed on the ground

beneath it.

IN THE CAMPSITE,

the SECOND TYRANNOSAUR now steps out of the jungle, joining

the first.  Panic hits the camp as the sleeping HUNTERS wake

up.  Many of them start to run.

Roland scrambles toward his tent, where he can see his weapon

lying near the open flap.  As he draws close, an enormous

T-rex foot stomps down on the tent, driving the rifle deep

into the mud.

Roland, weaponless, stands frozen, watching as the panicked

Hunters flee in all directions.

But they ignore him, sweeping him up in the wave of flushed

prey that pours across the campsite.  Some toss random and

ill-aimed GUNSHOTS back at the rexes.

ACROSS THE CAMPSITE,

NICK bursts out of the crowd, sees Kelly and Sarah struggling

to get out of the sleeping bag, and grabs each by an arm.  He

rips them to their feet and sweeps them off ahead of him, into

the jungle.

IN THE MIDDLE OF THE CROWD,

MALCOLM, blinking back sleep, stands a good head above the

rest of the panicking crowd.  Frantically, he scans the group.

But he can't see her.

AT THE EDGE OF CAMP,

the two rexes join forces, herding the fleeing Hunters into a

narrow ravine.

UP ON A ROCK RACE,

Roland scrambles up a steep rock face.  No way in hell he's

going down  that ravine.  He sees Malcolm, still in the middle

of the camp, start to head for the ravine.

Malcolm runs over and hurls himself at the rock face,

scrambling to climb up the smooth, steep boulders.

Behind him, one of the rexes spots him and lunges across the

camp toward him.

Malcolm gives it everything he's got, clawing his way up the

rock face --

-- and rex draws closer and pounces at his legs --

-- and Roland reaches down, grabs Malcolm by the hair and

pulls him up, out of the rex's grasp.

The rex falls short, but he's close enough that we can hear

his teeth SNAP together, closing around nothing but air.  It

turns, sees easier prey in the fleeing Hunters, and takes off

after them.

Malcolm lands on top of the rock ledge with a CRUNCH.  Roland

unceremoniously dumps a fistful of hair in his lap.

IN THE RAVINE,

Kelly, in the middle of the fleeing crowd with Sarah and Nick,

hears her father screaming her name and looks up.  Malcolm and

Roland are on the rock ridge above them, keeping pace.

But Kelly continues to flee, as the rexes are in the ravine

now, and drawing closer to the group.

Some Hunters try to leap up and scale the rocks, but the

ravine is deepening, there's no way out.  One rex grabs hold

of a Hunter in its teeth and hurls him against the rock face.

The second rex picks up another Hunter and snaps its massive

head left and right quickly, to break its victim's neck.  The

Hunter goes flying forward and crashes into --

-- CARTER, Dieter's driver, who stumbles and falls.  The rest

of the fleeing humans run around or over him, but when the

rex lifts its foot, we see Carter is actually stuck to the

bottom of it --

-- and when the animal takes its next step it CRUSHES him into

the earth.

UP ON TH ROCK FACE,

Malcolm is frantic.

DOWN IN THE RAVINE,

it's obvious no one is going to outrun the rexes, and Nick

knows it.  He bursts ahead of Sarah and Kelly and spots

something off to his left.

It's a waterfall, apparently right in front of a sheer rock

face.  But there's something about the way the water is

falling that tells him something.

He grabs each of them and hauls them forward, running straight

at the waterfall.  Apparently, he intends to jump right into

the rock, and he's dragging them along with him.

The three of them spring right at the waterfall and disappear

THROUGH the water.

DR. BURKE, fleeing along with everyone else, is watching as

they vanish.

BEHIND THE WATERFALL,

there is a small recess, which is what Nick had hoped for.

It's small, only four or five feet deep, but it's just enough

for him, Sarah, and Kelly to cover behind the flowing water.

Breathless, terrified, they can hear the mayhem outside.

With an enormous SPLASH, something bursts through the

cascading water and crashes into them.

Dr. Burke.

He pulls his way up against the far wall, as far away from the

water as he can.

FOOOOM!  Now another shape bursts through the watery curtain.

A Tyrannosaur head.  Burke gave away the hiding spot.

The four SCREAM as the rex's jaws SNAP left and right,

searching for them, falling just inches short.  They squeeze

as far back against the wall as they can get.

The rex can't quite get its head all the way through the

opening --

-- so it uses its tongue.  A long, dark blue shape slithers

out of its mouth and touches the humans, trying to wrap around

them, to pull them out of the cave.

Burke, blind with panic, forces himself even further into the

cave, which pushes Kelly further out.

But Burke doesn't listen, throwing elbows to make room for

himself.  His movements dislodge a portion of muddy earth, and

a flurry of enormous cockroaches, eight or nine inches long

each, pour out of the wall and swarm over his face and neck.

Burke SCREAMS and instinctively leaps away, toward the flowing

water.

And that's all the leverage the rex needs.  It curls its

tongue, wrapping Burke up in it and pulling him between its

teeth.  SCREAMING hideously, he is dragged out, through the

waterfall, and disappears.

Sarah, Nick, and Kelly stare in horror as the white screen of

water turn pink.

UP ON THE ROCK FACE,

Malcolm and Roland see the rex walk away from the waterfall

with Burke, leaving the hiding place unmolested.  Malcolm is

nearly hysterical.

IN A JUNGLE CLEARING,

routed Hunters emerge from the gully at the edge of he

jungle.  Ahead of them, there is a large open plain covered by

long "elephant" grass.

AJAY, running along with them, stops abruptly at the edge of

the grass, SHOUTING to the others.

Not in the frenzy, they ignore him.  Behind Ajay, the enormous

shadows of the two pursuing tyrannosaurs stop as well, holding

up at the edge of the jungle.

Ajay, torn between a sense of responsibility and his better

judgement, opts for the former and races into the grass after

the other Hunters, waving his arms.

UP ABOVE THEM,

Roland and Malcolm come out onto a rocky ledge that has a view

of the plain below.  Roland can see the Hunters leaving trails

as they plow through the grass.

ON THE PLAIN,

the groups of Hunters wades into the middle of the long grass.

One of them stops and turns, looking back at the jungle trees.

There are CHEERS, SIGHS OF relief.  In the distance, AJAY'S

VOICE can be heard, faintly calling to them to come back.  Up

on the rock in the distance, they can see Roland, waving his

arms madly.

But in the giddiness of their escape, they pay it no mind.

They continue plowing into the high grass, anything to get

further away from the tyrannosaurs.

ABOUT FIFTY YARDS AWAY,

the tops of three animal heads rise up slowly, backlit by

the full moon.  In the distance, the heads can seethe Hunter

party.  The heads descend, back into the grass.

BACK WITH THE HUNTERS,

they continue forward, oblivious.  Now behind them, four

more heads rise up in the grass.  As then descend.

On all sides of the Hunters, the grass ripples as animals move

forward toward them, undetected, inexorable as torpedoes.

And these torpedoes are on target.  One Hunter is suddenly

dragged down, yanked silently below the surface of the tall

grass.

In his place, a long, lizard-like tail rises up as the animal

drops its head to make the kill.

Behind him, two more Hunters are taken down, and two more

animal tails rise up in their place.  A Hunter ahead hears the

RUSTLING and turns.  His face turns white as, behind him --

-- a VELOCIRAPTOR springs out of the grass.

Velociraptor runs upright on its powerfully muscled hind legs,

the second tow of each foot bearing an extra-large curved

claw, carried in a retracted position, with which it slashes

on attack.

Like now.  This raptor SNARLS and SLAMS into the body of the

Hunter, taking him down.  A feeding frenzy ensues.  The

Hunters run in all directions, but are pulled down and vanish

into the twitching long grass.

Another raptor enters from the right, leaps high into the air,

past the full moon, SLAMS into the chest of more human prey,

and takes him down, into the grass.

Behind them, Ajay's face falls, defeated.  He looks around,

realizing he too is now stranded in the middle of the long

grass.

Around him, four torpedo trails head straight for him.

Ajay simply closes his eyes.

UP ON THE ROCK,

Roland turns away from the carnage, pained.

EXT. RUINED CAMPSITE - NIGHT

SARAH, MALCOLM, KELLY, NICK, ROLAND, DR. JUTTSON, and PETER

LUDLOW stand in the ruins of their campsite, their ranks

decimated, spirits shattered.

Roland is at the hole in the ground where his tent once was.

He has pulled his .800 Nitro Express from the mud and more or

less cleaned it, now he's checking the loads.

Kelly, nearly catatonic with fear, clings to Sarah, and it

doesn't look as if she'll ever let go.  Malcolm, who is on his

knees picking through the wreckage of a tent, looks over at

them, but Sarah waves him off -- "she's okay."

Roland appears, standing over the group.  He looks at Malcolm,

who has found the Lindstradt rifle, intact.

While he addresses the group, Roland straps on one of the

servo-lights, the shoulder-mounted flashlights that follow

your gaze.

AT THE EDGE OF CAMP,

Roland bends over one of the three-toed footprints left by the

rex.  Behind him, the rest of the group is packing up,

slinging the remnants of their equipment over their shoulders.

Roland bends over and SNIFFS the footprint.  It's filled with

a liquid of some kind.

He takes his canteen, dumps the remaining water into the

ground, and plunges the canteen into the footprint, filling

it.  Ludlow hovers over his shoulder.

Ludlow doesn't ask.

NOW AT THE FIRE,

Roland stares down at the ashes of the cooking fire that led

to such disaster.  He grabs a handful of the ash and shoves it

in his pants pocket.

EXT. VALLEY OF DEATH - NIGHT

ROLAND and LUDLOW (who, along with Sarah and Malcolm, is also

wearing a servo-light now) maneuver down a rugged hillside and

come out in a flattened area.  Ludlow GASPS, looking ahead in

wonderment.  MALCOLM breaks through the hillside's foliage a

moment later.  He too stares in amazement.

SARAH and KELLY come next, then NICK, then JUTTSON.  One by

one, they all stop and stare.

They're standing in a flat, sandy area lined with boulders at

the sides.  The flat area stretches fifty yards from side to

side and as far as they can see ahead.  But that's not what

amazes them so.

Everywhere, the sand is dotted with dinosaur skeletons.  Some

are huge, apatosaurs, sixty feet from head to tail tip.

Others are smaller, herbivores of many different kinds.  The

more intact skeletons lie on their sides, their ribcages arcs

of pale bone.  but just as many have been ripped apart, bits

of carcass tossed in every direction.

They march on, tiny figures moving among the mountainous

skeletons by the light of the full moon.  Roland notices one

carcass in particular, a recent kill.  It's an enormous

HADROSAUR with fresh bites taken out of it.

He bends down, studying the soft earth around it for

footprints.

FURTHER ON,

Malcolm looks up, noticing the bony shapes around them, which

fall in heavy shadows like cell bars, seem to be changing.

He turns, and his servo-light shines on the bones.  But

they're not bones any more at all, they're pipes, the animal

graveyard now given over to the lifeless skeletons of manmade

objects -- twisted, rotting machinery.

They hurry over a small rise --

EXT. WORKER VILLAGE - NIGHT

-- and find themselves at the edge of what was once Isla

Sorna's worker village.  The size of a football field, the

town is divided by a main street that's dotted on both sides

by stores, residences, cafes, a gas station.  All the way at

the far end is a large, blocky, four-story building.

But the town is a mess.  The hurricane that hit here must have

been ferocious, for everywhere things are smashed, broken,

upended.  And the jungle has stepped into the breath, growing

up, around, and over everything.  Huge root systems snake

through the street, making it almost impassable.

Roland catches up and looks at Ludlow.

A light rain falls as they start down the street, carefully,

silently, Roland and Malcolm with their weapons at the ready.

They pass the skeleton of a fallen water tower.  An empty gas

station, its vine-snarled pumps now useless.  The only sound

is the low mechanical HUM of the servo-lights as they follow

the group's gazes obediently.

Every few feet, the group encounters strange, grayish lumps

that lies in random places in the middle of the street.

Malcolm, curious, stops and taps one of them.  It's a rock-hard.

Nick looks over his shoulder.

Finally, they reach the operation building, at the far end of

the town.

He pulls out his canteen.  Ludlow watches as he screws the top

off, moves toward the building, and starts splashing the

contents on the outside of it.

The rest of the group just stares at him.

Roland rejoins them.

He drops his pack, swings his gun off his shoulder, and checks

the load.  Dr. Juttson looks fearful.

Ludlow takes off his hat and turns to Nick.

He takes a slip of paper from the brim of his hat and hands it

to Nick.

Ludlow double checks the clip on his semi-automatic rifle --

-- and SMACKS it back into the belly of the gun.

INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - NIGHT

The console of a sophisticated radio set-up glows brightly,

all green, red, and yellow.  NICK tunes the dial to a specific

frequency.  The radio WHINES and HISSES tuning in.

The remaining SURVIVORS, minus Ludlow and Roland, shine their

flashlights around the dusty, vine-hung interior of the

communications room.  On the wall a row of chrome letters says

"We Make The Future,"  but the words are obscured by a tangle

of vines.  Mushrooms and fungi sprout from the carpet.

On one wall, there is a mural of what the completed Jurassic

Park would have looked like.  Big hotels, Ford Explorers with

tourists leaning out the windows taking pictures, big crowds

at the fences around the animal exhibits.  But none of it came

true, and now even the mural is runny and dust-covered.

There is a pause, filed only with radio static.  Sarah looks

at Nick tensely, waiting.  Finally, a VOICE comes over the

radio, clean as can be.

They all breath a sign of relief.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

With Roland and Ludlow gone on the hunt and the rest of the

group inside the operations building, main street stands

deserted and silent.

Nearly deserted, anyway.  Moonlight shadows lengthen at one

end of the street --

-- and FIVE VELOCIRAPTORS STROLL INTO TOWN.

EXT. VALLEY OF DEATH - NIGHT

ROLAND AND LUDLOW are back in the valley of death, standing

amid the giant skeletons of long-dead animals.  Roland bends

down, checking the carcass of the freshly-chewed HADROSAUR he

saw earlier.

A set of giant three-toed rex tracks leads away from the

carcass, down the stream bed.  Roland follows them.  Ludlow

follows Roland.

As they near a bend in the stream, Roland looks down, at the

surface of the water.  A pattern of ripples moves toward them,

washing over their ankles.  Roland follows the ripples with

his eyes.  From up head, around the bend, he can hear the

sound of an animal eating and drinking.  A very large animal.

He reaches into his pocket and pulls out a  pinch of the ashes

from the cooking fire that he scooped up earlier and releases

that on the wind.  They float there for a second, suspended,

then blow back at him.

Roland darts a contemptuous look at him.  He puts a finger to

his lips, gesturing for silence, then steps up, onto the

shore.  Ludlow follows.

They creep forward, toward the sounds.  They round the bend

and Roland hits his belly, edging up over a small rise.

Over the rise, he sees the TYRANNOSAUR, about a hundred yards

ahead.  It's stooped over the stream bed, drinking.  Like a

bird, it dips its head in the water and then straightens up,

to let the water fall down its throat.  A dozen COMPYS are at

the water as well, drinking.

Roland gently FLICKS the safety on his gun to "off."

Ludlow edges toward the cover of a low-hanging branch.  As he

puts his weight on one knee, it presses down hard on the

middle of a small stick, which CRACKS in half.  Roland turns,

eyes blazing.

Out in the open, the tyrannosaur snaps its head sharply as

well, staring in the direction of the sound.  But since

Roland's own head is turned, he doesn't see the dinosaur's

reaction.  Roland holds a warning finger out to Ludlow.

Roland turns his head back.  The tyrannosaur is gone.

FURTHER ON,

the trail of three-toed tyrannosaur footprints stops abruptly.

Roland stops too, gesturing for Ludlow to freeze behind him.

Roland glances both ways, looking for any sign of the track.

To the right, the ground gives way to hard black volcanic rock.

A short distance behind them, the rock is solid, a massive,

green, pebbled boulder ten feet high.  Roland frowns and

WHISPERS in Ludlow's ear again.

In front of Roland, a palm frond sways gently in the night

breeze.  Roland's eyes widen.  He pulls out another pinch of

campfire ash and releases it on the wind.

This time, the ash blows off, straight away from him.

They freeze, terrified.  Behind them, the enormous green

pebbled boulder --

-- opens an eye.

That's no boulder, that's the MALE TYRANNOSAUR, standing

rock-solid still, its natural camouflage blending into the

surrounding foliage perfectly.  Very slowly and almost

silently, the rex brings its head all the way around until it

is staring directly down at them from about ten feet away.

Roland and Ludlow stand frozen, their back to the rex,

unaware of its presence.

Until it exhales.  The soft SNORT of its breath isn't quite

audible, but it brushes the hair on the backs of their necks

ever so slightly.

Their hearts drop into their stomachs.  Ludlow speaks, his

voice a queasy HISS.

As the rex silently cocks its head, sizing up the danger from

these intruders, it breathes again.  A few strands of Ludlow's

hair flap in the exhalation.  He closes his eyes, near tears.

He can't take it.  His eyes dart, glancing down at the weapon

he holds in his hands.  Unfortunately, it's extended in front

of him, away from the rex.

He risks another HISS.

Behind them, the rex appears satisfied.  It starts to swing

its massive head around, back toward the jungle.  It lifts one

great leg and takes a step into the trees.

Roland signs and closes his eyes, relieved.

But Ludlow seizes the opportunity.  He whips his weapon around

and drops to one knee.

The rex is infinitely quicker.  Ludlow just has time to

squeeze off a short burst of semi-automatic gunfire when the

animal whirls, takes one elegant step forward, and POUNCES.

Ludlow's bullets rip harmlessly through the foliage between

the rex's legs as its big head snaps forward and comes down,

jaws wide.  They close around Ludlow's body, lift his straight

up into the air, and toss him once, readjusting their grip so

it is firmly around his midsection.

The whole combination of movements takes but half a second.

By the time Roland turns around, the animal has pivoted and

darted back into the jungle, carrying Ludlow, still SCREAMING

and writhing in its mouth.

Roland raises his gun, to draw a bead on the animal, but

through the shivering trees, he can only see that the

tyrannosaur is gone.

INT. COMMUNICATIONS ROOM - NIGHT

MALCOLM SARAH, NICK, KELLY, and DR. JUTTSON wait nervously in

the communications room.  An empty can of Dr. Pepper sitting

on one of the countertops begins to RATTLE.  They look over at

it, confused, as the lightweight aluminum can CHATTERS on the

formica counter.

Other objects in the lab begin to rattle too.  Glass jars

CLANK against one another, books start to drop off the

shelves, a stool shudders across the floor.

Above them, the rotting wooden roof of the building starts to

actually tear away, chunks of moldy timber flying up into

the night.  They look up, a deafening ROAR fills the room --

-- and a helicopter's searchlight floods in!

As the chopper dips lower, looking for a place to land, the

violent prop wash rips away huge chunks of the roof over their

heads.

INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Up above the operations building, the helicopter circles.  The

roof of the building is all arches and rotten timber,

impossible to land open.

Below, the PILOTS see the SURVIVORS through the torn roof of

the building.  They wave frantically, their flashlight beams

piercing the night sky.

The Co-Pilot scans the street below, but it's choked with

overturned cars and fallen trees.

The Co-Pilot nods and they peel off, swooping over the rest of

the village.

At the far end of the street, the Co-Pilot brings the

searchlight to bear on the large, flat roof of a three story

building.

The Pilot gives him a thumbs-up.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

MALCOLM, SARAH, KELLY, NICK and finally DR. JUTTSON run out

the front of the operations building.  At the end of the

street, they can see the helicopter as it descends slowly over

the building, to land on its roof.

Happily, the group double-times it down the street, headed for

the chopper.  Again, those strange rock formations are

everywhere.  Some seem to be on the sides of buildings, as if

they once dripped there and then turned to stone.

This time Sarah pauses at one that is dripping over to the side

of a car like solidified lava.  Her face falls as a thought

occurs to her.

A VELOCIRAPTORS jumps onto a fallen tree trunk behind them.

They don't see it.

Unaware of the raptor's presence, they resume their trot

toward the helicopter.  Behind them, the raptor crouches and

SNARLS, but the sound is lost under the WHINE of the

helicopter's engines.  It springs, covering the distance

between them quickly.

The animal SLAMS into JUTTSON, the last person in the group,

and takes him down.  Juttson is thrown forward, into the

others, who fall like dominoes.

Juttson SCREAMS, his voice an unnatural, high-pitched SQUEAL,

as the raptor flips him over and lowers its jaws into him.

Sarah looks up, panicked.  Her eyes widen at the sight of a

SECOND RAPTOR, this one running straight at hr at top speed.

She buries her face in the dirt, covering her head with her

hands --

-- and the raptor's foot SLAMS into the ground between her

legs as it bounds over her and dives onto Juttson, joining the

first raptor in the kill.

Panicked, the group scatters in all directions.  Kelly jumps

up and scrambles into the middle of the street, where she hits

the dirt and crawls under a fallen shed in the middle of the

road.

Malcolm rolls over to the space where Kelly was, but she's

gone now.  He looks around frantically.

Sarah rolls onto her feet and sprints toward the building

nearest her.

Behind her, a THIRD RAPTOR gives chase, bounding after her

with horrifying speed.  Sarah runs flat-out, but her speed is

nothing compared to the raptor's, and it gains on her rapidly.

The walls of a structure of some kind close in around Sarah,

and as she leaps across a leather seat and SLAMS a door behind

her, we realize she's crawled into the back seat of an

abandoned car.

But the car door is thin protection against the charging

raptor, which SLAMS into the window, head first.  The window

spinderwebs, but does not yield.  The raptor crumples to the

ground.

Sarah looks up, through a three inch hole in the middle of the

web.  The raptor leaps back to its feet and plunges its nose

into the tiny hole, thrashing, widening it.

Sarah SCREAMS and the animal forces its entire head through

the hole, SNAPPING its jaws just short of her face.

She hurls herself over the seat and into the front as the

animal penetrates even further into the car, but its torso

will not fit through the window opening.  It pulls away.

In the front seat, Sarah gets some very bad news.

There's no windshield.

The raptor springs up onto the hood, its claws CLATTERING on

the sheet metal, and tosses its body through the opening --

-- just as Sarah hurls herself out the door.  While the raptor

struggles to right itself in the front seat, Sarah runs to the

nearest building, ducks inside, and SLAMS the heavy wooden

door.

EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

MALCOLM races between the idled gas pumps and into the gas

station building, closing the door behind him.  A moment

later, a raptor bounds after him, SLAMMING into the door.

Meeting resistance, it bounces off, notices the plate glass

window next to the door, and pounces at that.  The window

SHATTERS and the raptor clings to the ledge, staring inside,

its tail hanging out.

Just as it gets inside, Malcolm opens the door and comes back

out, keeping the place of wall between them.  He pulls the

Lindstradt rifle off his back and tries to take aim --

-- but the raptor whirls and springs, forcing him back inside,

through the door again.

Willing to play along, the raptor turns and jumps through the

window again.

INT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

Balancing on the window frame, the raptor HISSES and crouches,

ready to spring at Malcolm.

Malcolm takes cover behind the door, which is hanging open

between them.  He raises the rifle.

Th raptor springs into the door, BLASTING it off its hinges,

knocking Malcolm right through a window behind him.

But the door SMACKS up against the wall, covering the window,

preventing the raptor from following Malcolm out that way.

For the moment.

EXT. GAS STATION - NIGHT

Malcolm flies through the window and CRUNCHES to the ground.

He GROANS  in agony and rolls off his bad leg, which is twisted

unnaturally beneath him, and claws in the mud for the gun.

ROUGH HANDS reach down, grab him by the shirt, and haul him to

his feet.  It's NICK.  He drags Malcolm away, but in the

commotion Nick's duffel slips off his shoulder and lands in

the street, spilling some of the precious videotapes.

Malcolm scoops them up.

They race off, down the street.

INT. KILN HOUSE - NIGHT

High above SARAH, we see she is standing alone in a three

story kiln house, a windowless shed used for firing pottery

and other construction projects.  Catwalks lined with heavy

chains hang above her, and onto the floor below, she turns in

circles, wondering what to do now.

From outside the kiln house, she hears SCRATCHING, digging

sounds.  From the other side of the door comes an animal

SNORT, and a small puff of dust and dirt billows up through

the crack along the ground.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE DOOR,

the claws of one of the raptors dig furiously, trying to

tunnel underneath.

INSIDE,

Sarah runs to the opposite wall, falls to her knees, and

starts digging a tunnel of her own, clawing frantically at the

ganging tools always and CLANKS as it tears at the earth below

it.

Sarah digs faster.  So does the raptor.

With about eight inches of space under the wall, Sarah grabs

hold of the bottom of one of the plans and pries it up as

hard as she can.  It snaps off with a loud CRACK.

At the door, the raptor stops digging.  It's silent for a

moment.

Sarah has a good foot and a half of space under her wall now.

She starts to lower her body into it --

-- JUST AS THE RAPTOR'S CLAWS FLASH THROUGH FROM THE OTHER

SIDE!

Sarah falls back, SCREAMING, leaps to her feet, and jumps up,

grabbing hold of one of the catwalks above.  She starts to

climb, up, anywhere up, as the RAPTOR now squirms and thrashes

its way inside, coming in through her hole.

Sarah climbs, hauling herself up, leaping from one catwalk to

another.

The raptor leaps up onto a catwalk as well and follows her.

EXT. KILM HOUSE - NIGHT

A window in the slanted roof of the kiln house EXPLODES in a

shower of glass as SARAH kicks through it and climbs outside.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

Nick drags a badly limping MALCOLM down the main street.  They

can see helicopter at the far end, engine ROARING and

searchlight playing over them as they draw closer.  They

approach a rusted, abandoned pickup in the middle of the

street --

-- and a RAPTOR leaps on top of it.  Its claws CLACK on the

roof as it goes into its pre-attack crouch.

They don't stick around to negotiate.  Nick hauls Malcolm off

into the nearest building.

INT. WORKER HOTEL - NIGHT

NICK and MALCOLM hurry inside and SLAM the door behind them.

They're standing in the lobby of a hotel of some kind,

probably used for overnight guests and day workers who had to

spend the night.  The room and staircase wind around a large,

open-aired central area four stories tall.  They SHOUT at each

other, frantic.

With a CRASH, the wood SPRINTERS around the lock and the door

swings open violently.  Malcolm is thrown aside, landing hard

on the floor.

A VELOCIRAPTOR stands HISSING in the doorway.  Nick throws his

weight against the door.  SLAMMING it hard against the raptor.

Malcolm rolls over and paws the gun off his back.

SLAM!  The raptor charges the door again, this time BLASTING

it off its hinges, knocking Nick to the floor beneath it.  The

raptor turns and SNARLS at Malcolm.

Malcolm swings the gun around --

-- the raptor lunges at him --

-- Malcolm's finger closes on the trigger --

-- and the raptor lands on top of him.

The weight of the animal CRUSHES him into the floor, but the

gun barrel now stands between them.  The raptor CHOMPS down

hard on the barrel, its teeth GRINDING on the metal, and SNAPS

its head, to tear it from Malcolm's hands.

Malcolm pulls the trigger.

The raptor's eyes pop wide as the dart SLAMS into the back of

its throat.  It makes a GURGLING sound, then convulses

violently and rolls off of Malcolm, yanking the gun from his

hands as it falls and dies.

Nick scrambles out from under the door.  Malcolm tries to

wrench the gun from the raptor's clenched jaws, but it won't

budge.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

KELLY remains huddled under the fallen shed, trembling with

fear.  She holds her breath and freezes, as just outside, only

two feet from where she's hiding --

-- a RAPTOR'S FEET pick their way past her, down the middle of

the street.

Kelly closes her eyes and suppresses a scream.

EXT. ROOFTOP - NIGHT

NICK and MALCOLM burst onto the roof of the now-burning

hotel and SLAM the door behind them.  The helicopter is now

only three rooftops away.  They turn and head for it, Nick in

the lead, but there's an eight foot gap between the buildings.

Nick looks around, desperate.  A fallen power pole leans

against the building they're standing on, its lines gone

slack.

Malcolm understands.  He and Nick throw a shoulder into the

pole and give it a mighty push, tipping it over in the other

direction.  One good hard shove and it falls to the far

building, THUDDING against it solidly.

Its power lines are not taut, a lifeline from this rooftop to

the next.  Nick grabs hold and starts to pull himself across

the gap, hand over hand.

Behind them, the door of the building SPLINTERS and CRASHES

open as a raptor throws all its weight into it.  Malcolm leaps

onto the power line without hesitation and starts pulling

himself across.

But even with the door wide open, the raptor on the other side

hesitates.  It SNARLS and backs away, refusing to come out

onto the roof.

ON THE OTHER ROOFTOP,

Malcolm lands next to Nick on the second rooftop.  They look

back at the frightened animal, which takes tow steps out onto

the roof, SNARLS, and backs into the doorway again.

Malcolm looks around, at the rooftop.  Strange bits of scrap

and debris seem to have been arranged there, in an odd,

concentric pattern.

He points to the roof of the kilm house, in the distance.

Malcolm turns, and sees SARAH crawling across the tile.  His

face turns white.

EXT. KILM HOUSE ROOF - NIGHT

SARAH has problems.  Still on top of the kilm house, she

reaches the edge and pushes off the roof, leaping to the roof

of the next building.

She lands at the peak of the intersection of the two sides of

sloping roof.  As she pulls herself up --

-- a RAPTOR appears on the rooftop behind her.  In full

stride, it leaps, sails over her, and lands on the roof

ahead of her.

Sarah swings to her left and starts to crawl down the slope,

away from the raptor.  Suddenly the roof board under her

SPRINTERS and CRACKS under her weight.  The whole section

pulls up and starts to slide off the roof.  Sarah, clinging to

it, rides the roof  planks down, away from the raptor.

She looks over her shoulder, down --

-- and sees ANOTHER RAPTOR, waiting for her on the roof of the

building below.

Sarah quickly rolls off the sliding section of roof, which

keeps sliding, falling.  The raptor below jumps up, just in

time to get WHACKED in the head by the falling roof section.

Sarah tries to cling to the Spanish tile roof, fingers and

nails slipping on the slick ceramic surface.  She slides all

the way to the edge, grabs hold of the gutter, and dangles

there, suspended above one raptor and trapped below another.

The raptor above works its way down.  The one below leaps up,

at her dangling legs.  She has left them in time with its

jumps, to avoid losing her feet.  This can't go on for long.

Desperate, she pulls one of the Spanish tiles up from the roof

and hurls it at the raptor below.  It hits the animal in the

head, for all the good that does.

But Sarah keeps on, pulling and throwing more tiles.  She

edges to the right, toward a fresh supply.

The raptor above edges even closer, claws CLICKING on the

slick roof.

Something interesting is happening.  As Sarah pulls the loose

tiles free, the ones above slide down, to take their place.

Sarah sees this and pulls more free, knocking them out of the

way as fast as she can.

Suddenly an avalanche of loose tiles breaks loose and the

footing underneath the raptor above disintegrates.  The

animal's feet flail and grasp, it slides towards the edge amid

the tumbling tiles.

Sarah, seeing it coming, swings in close to the building,

hugging it as closely as she can.  The raptor falls off the

roof, right past her --

-- and CRUNCHES into the raptor below.  Both animals SNARK and

attack one another.

Now Sarah, her grip exhausted, falls too, landing right next

to the enraged animals.  They fight and roll, RIGHT OVER HER.

She GROANS and hugs the wood below her, the raptors continue

to thrash and bite, they roll back, toward her, she rolls out

of their way --

-- and plunges through a hole in the roof.

INT. LAB - NIGHT

Sarah falls through the roof of a deserted laboratory and

lands in the tray of an old-fashioned hanging fluorescent

light fixture.

One end of the fixture's support SNAPS, it drops at a 45

degree angle, Sarah slides out the other end and CRASHES

through a window.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

Sarah lands in the mud in the street below.

With a THUD, MALCOLM lands in the mud between two other

building, one of which he has just climbed off of.  Panicked,

he leaps to his feet and starts to SHOUT.

EXT. MAIN STREET - NIGHT

SARAH sprints down the main street as fast as she can, toward

the building on which sits the helicopter.  Above her, she can

see NICK has now reached the helicopter and is waving to her.

Sarah reaches the fallen water tower, which is next to the

helicopter building, and starts to climb it.

ELSEWHERE IN THE STREET,

KELLY is still covering underneath the fallen shed.  In the

distance, she can see the helicopter.  But she is trembling

with fear, unable to move.

The whole shed suddenly RATTLES as something heavy hits it

outside.  Kelly's mouth drops open to scream, but her terror

is so complex that no sound comes out.  She raises her hands

in self-defense, whatever's outside ROARS with effort, the

entire shed is suddenly RIPPED right up off of her, and she

looks up --

-- into her father's eyes.

He grabs her by the hand and they take off down the street.

ON THE ROOFTOP,

Sarah emerges at the top of the water tower structure and

leaps onto the roof, into Nick's arms.

Eyes wide with panic, they both turn and look down at the

street below, where they see KELLY and MALCOLM, racing at top

speed down the middle of the street --

-- WITH A VELOCIRAPTOR CHASING THEM.

DOWN IN THE STREET,

Malcolm and Kelly have a twenty yard advantage on the animal.

They're pretty fast, but it's faster.

Above them, Nick and Sarah are at the edge of the roof,

SHOUTING and urging them on.  They push it, faster.

They reach the base of the fallen water tower, the jumble of

struts and metal poles that Sarah climbed.

Kelly leaps ahead of him and grabs hold of one of the poles,

pulling herself neatly up to her feet and reaching for the

next one.

Malcolm stretches and makes the same effort, but for him it's

much harder.

Below them, the raptor springs and SLAMS into the struts,

shaking the whole structure.  It pulls itself up.

Higher up, Kelly climbs fast, hands gliding over the poles.

She breaks out into the open, where a long, narrow pole runs

on a slight incline up to the roof.  She scampers across it,

running the balance beam.

She reaches the other side, on a ledge below the roofline, and

looks back.  Malcolm is at the other end, hesitating, drained,

breathing hard.

Below him, the raptor closes in.  Malcolm sets out across the

beam, his legs shaking.  He places his feet carefully, he

doesn't have nearly the balance Kelly did.

The raptor draws closer.

Malcolm slips.

One foot twists right off the bar and he spins, arms flailing,

trying to regain his tenuous balance.

But he overcompensates and his whole body, wrenches out from

under him.  He falls, the bar SMACKS him hard in the chest,

knocking the wind out of him, and he drops, flipping right off

the bar and bouncing painfully through the maze of bars below.

He drops right past the pursuing velociraptor, CRUNCHING to

a halt in a nest of bars ten feet off the ground, probably

cracking a rib.  Kelly SCREAMS from above him.

She stares down in horror at her father.  Wrenched in among

the bars, Malcolm is helpless as the animal crouches only six

feet above him now, with an open attack route.

The animal SNARKS and goes into its pre-attack crouch.

Up above, Kelly wipes the palms of her hands on her jeans

and leaps out into space, grabbing hold of one of the bars.

The raptor springs.

Kelly spins around, over the top of the bar, and, at the very

peak of her trajectory, she lets go.

The raptor sails through down from above, feet first, SLAMMING

both of them squarely into the raptor's side, sending it

hurtling into space.

She lands hard and awkwardly, CLANGING into the spidery

scaffolding next to Malcolm as the raptor SMASHES to the

ground below.  But Kelly manages to hold on.

She grabs hold of Malcolm and pulls him to his feet.

ON THE ROOF,

Kelly and Malcolm appear over the roofline.  The PILOTS SHOUTS

from inside.

Malcolm and Kelly scramble toward the helicopter.  But at the

opposite side of the roof, a RAPTOR claws its way over the

edge as well.

Malcolm sees it and they lunge for the helicopter, but the

animal is far faster.  It's only ten feet away, then five,

they're surely done for this time, when --

-- KA-BOOM!

There comes the loudest single gunshot anyone has ever heard,

and the raptor flies off its feet and lands ten feet across

the roof, dead.  They look up, to the source of the

gunshot.

It's ROLAND, standing at the edge of the roof, holding his

smoking .600 Nitro Express.

But there's no time for celebration, as suddenly the

helicopter's left skid CRACKS right through the surface of the

roof.

The skid dips even further, ripping right through the

thatch-and-wood construction.  Kelly, who had one foot in the

helicopter, loses her balance --

-- as the roof caves in beneath her.

She falls,  SCREAMING, through the hole and down, into the

building below.

ONE FLOOR DOWN,

Kelly lands with a CRUNCH on the floor immediately below the

roof, about nine feet down.  But her landing is cushioned by

an inordinate amount of straw and leaves that have been

arranged there.  She lifts one hand, and a yellowy, viscous

substance drips off of it.

It's yolk.  She looks around, noticing half a dozen large,

oblong shapes.  Eggs.

Above her, Malcolm is scrambling, climbing down to her through

the wreckage of the CREAKING, crumbling roof.

Kelly climbs to her knees, but behind her, a large, dark shape

is moving.  Rising.  Unfolding, in a way.

IT'S A PTERANODON.

Yep, flying dinosaur.  The enormous animal raises its head, a

brilliant blue crest extending two feet behind its long,

saber-like beak.  It SQUAWKS at Kelly in fury.  She can only

stare, spellbound.

Malcolm reaches her and grabs hold as the angry animal unfurls

its massive twenty-two foot wingspread.

ON THE ROOF,

the helicopter lurches as it sinks further into the crumbling

roof, and now the skids are getting tangled in the debris.

Roland races over to the hole, climbs in a few feet, and

starts kicking at it, making it larger.

IN THE PTERANODON NEST,

Malcolm tries to haul Kelly back up the way he came, but a

SECOND PTERANODON now appears from the depths of the building,

SCREECHING in fury at these invaders who have landed in the

middle of their clutch of eggs.

An emergency rescue ladder drops through the hole in the roof.

Malcolm grabs Kelly with one arm and the ladder with the other

and they start to climb out of the nest.

ON THE ROOF,

Malcolm and Kelly climb the ladder and are pulled into the

belly of the chopper just as two enormous beaks break

through the surface of the roof around them.

The pteranodons are emerging.

The helicopter lurches up a few feet, but it yanked to an

abrupt stop.  The engines WHINE, the chopper just hovers

there.

They loos down. BOTH PTERANODONS have come out through the

hole in the roof and are clinging to the skids of the

helicopter.  They flap their gigantic wings in unison, and

drag the helicopter off, into the air, away from the nest --

-- and let go.  Freed, the helicopter gains altitude quickly.

IN THE HELICOPTER,

the PILOTS gape as the pteranodons coast along, right next to

the helicopter.

They look out the windows, where, indeed, the magnificent

animals are merely accompanying them, flying escort as the

chopper gains altitude.

Kelly, completely drained, sits between Sarah and Malcolm,

each of whom has a protective arm around her.  She sags

against her father's chest, nothing left.

He holds her tight and WHISPERS in her ear.

IN THE NIGHT SKY,

over the island, the helicopter steadily gains altitude.  A

hundred feet.  Three hundred.  A thousand.

As the helicopter is clearly leaving the island, the

pteranodons now peel off, their job done.  One of them banks

sharply, right in front of the moon.  The moonlight

silhouettes it, shining right through its membranous wings,

lighting it up like a Halloween skeleton.

Below, the tiny green island melts away into the vastness of

the wine-dark sea.

EXT. TYRANNOSAUR NEST - NIGHT

Elsewhere in the forest, it's not such a happy story.  PETER

LUDLOW, still alive, drops through the air and CRUNCHES to the

muddy ground.  Dizzy, bleeding, the breath knocked out of him,

he opens his eyes and sees a sloping bank of dried mud.

From behind him, he hears a CHIRPING sound.  He turns.

He's in the tyrannosaur nest.

The BABY TYRANNOSAUR faces him, still with a strange

aluminum-foil cast on its leg.  The baby SQUEAKS with

excitement as it toddles toward him.

Ludlow scrambles to his feet, unsure what to do.  Both ADULT

TYRANNOSAURS stand outside the nest, staring down at him.

The baby runs toward Ludlow, so he turns and runs away.

But in an instant, the male brings its head down, knocking

Ludlow to the ground.  Then it raises its head again.

Watching.  Waiting.

Ludlow gets up again and tries to run, but now the female rex

strikes, knocking him over again.

Ludlow tries to crawl away, on all fours.  The male bends down

and closes its jaws around one of his legs, holding it

tightly.  Ludlow SCREAMS --

-- and the rex bits down decisively.  The bone breaks with a

dry SNAP.  Ludlow HOWLS in pain, unable to move, and the baby

toddles forward eagerly.  Ludlow can only stare as it leaps

up, onto his chest, and opens its jaws wide.

Peter Ludlow SCREAMS.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Snow falls in a gray midwinter sky.  In a cemetery, a group of

fifty MOURNERS is grouped around a gravesite next to a coffin

that is festooned with cascades of flowers.  On a table, there

is an array of framed photographs --

-- of JOHN HAMMOND.  A MINISTER reads from the Bible while the

Mourners wipe away tears.  IAN MALCOLM stands a respectful

distance from the group, KELLY right beside him.  Malcolm's

face is blank, tired, his sunburn out of place with the white

winter setting around him.

At gravesite, a Young Woman turns, looking back over her

shoulder.  About sixteen, she's lovely, with long blonde hair

and an honest, open face.  She notices Malcolm, recognizes

him.

She nudges a Young Man next to her, about thirteen years old.

The Young Man turns and breaks into a smile just as welcoming.

As the ceremony breaks up, they walk over to him.

LEX stands on her tiptoes and kisses Malcolm on the cheek.

TIM extends a hand and Malcolm shakes it.

They nod their hellos.

Malcolm looks at her for a long moment.

He looks down at Kelly.

Kelly smiles and takes his hand, her slender fingers

interlocking with his.

EXT. JUNGLE - DAY

Back on Isla Sorna, we float over the deserted worker village,

moving lightly, as in a dream.

We sweep low, landing on the roof the helicopter took off

from, the nest below now careful rebuilt with straw and

scrap, a dozen unblemished eggs in the middle of it.

A PTERANODON land gently on the nest.  Ever so carefully, it

positions itself over the eggs, lowers itself to roosting

position, and folds its giant wings around its body.

The animal raises its head, opens its beak, and SQUAWKS

approvingly up at the heavens.

