NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS

AND SOME "SCENE OMITTED" SLUGS. THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR

THIS SOFT COPY.

FADE IN:

A WORN SATCHEL (MOVING - DAY)

is being carried by a world weary middle European wearing a black

armband.  VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH exits a gleaming building, pausing

for a moment, under a motto clearly visible above his head,

INSERT - WATCH

set in

sixteen seconds and dropping, 19:37.15,  :14,  :13,  :12 etc.

O.S. children are singing:

Nekhorvich looks to see children at play outside the adjacent

Natural History Museum.  They are moving in and around an odd

freeform sculpture.

POV - SCULPTURE AND CHILDREN

a blur where the sculpture seems to be distorting the children,

almost like mirrors in a fun house.

NEKHORVICH

wipes his eyes, a horn honks.  He looks toward the sound.

MOVING SHOT - SATCHEL (INT. AIRPORT SECURITY - DAY)

on the belt that takes it thru X-Ray.  On the other side a guard

opens the satchel and pokes thru a few toilet articles, personal

items, books, a battleship gray digital camera and - in a small

plastic container marked 'S.G.' - a small, square shiny object,

hi-tech and at odds with the other items.  She pulls out an urn-

shaped vessel.

COMPUTERIZED SCREEN DISPLAY (INT. PLANE - MOVING - DAY)

on the cabin wall displays a colorful map showing the flight

point of departure in Sydney, continuously updating distance,

direction and time to its ultimate destination, Atlanta, Georgia.

NEKHORVICH (INT. CABIN - DAY)

seems intent on the map, its changing times and distance.  He

checks his watch - the countdown has gone from 20 to three hours

and 32 minutes as Nekhorvich is mesmerized by the descending

seconds whipping by.

ETHAN HUNT sits into shot on the vacant first class aisle seat

beside Nekhorvich.

Nekhorvich is overcome.  Ethan puts a comforting hand on his

shoulder:

Nekhorvich pats the satchel.

With an almost impish grin and a wink:

Good-natured laughter.  Cut off by a flight steward who passes

by, giving a sidelong silence in Ethan and Nekhorvich's direction.

Oxygen masks suddenly deploy from the ceiling.  Passengers are

puzzled and alarmed.

A passenger struggling with his mask.  As Nekhorvich fumbles with

the strap on his mask he notes that the display screen shows

their altitude is below 30,000 feet and dropping.  He checks the

countdown time on his watch again.  Nekhorvich looks around him.

The flight attendants are conspicuously absent and all the

passengers who have on oxygen masks are passed out.

INT - COCKPIT

The flight crew now wearing their oxygen masks.

The Co-pilot is working on the plane's altitude when his hands

slip off the controls.  His eyes flutter, then:

He passes out.  The Captain, HUGH STAMP, turns to verify that the

relief pilot is also unconscious at the controls.

He then removes his oxygen mask, sets the auto pilot, inputting

numbers to slow the plane and descend.  As the craft titles

downward...

INT - GALLERY

The flight attendants are pulling on jump suits.  Stamp emerges

from the cockpit.

INT - CABIN

Ethan returns.  Nekhorvich beckons to him.  Ethan sits.  Grinning

around, Nekhorvich conspiratorially:

Nekhorvich's eyes narrow.

With a lightning swift move Ethan breaks Nekhorvich's neck.

He grabs the satchel.

Wallis slashes the satchel handle open, takes the satchel for

Ambrose.  He peels off the latex mask, revealing SEAN AMBROSE.

He tears off the vocal oscillator at his adam's apple, clears his

throat, now as Ambrose:

Ulrich has rolled back the carpet over an access panel just

beneath them that leads to the belly of the plane.  Stamp pulls

back the panel, hops into the compartment below which is four

walls of electronic equipment.  Stamp kneels and slides back the

floor hatch.  The wind howls, puffs of cloud zip by beneath them.

As they descend into the belly:

They don goggles and, with Ambrose in the lead,

the team leaps, one after another from the hatch, sailing off

into the sky.

INT - COCKPIT (DAY)

An automated voice repeats in an ominous monotone:

The co-pilot stirs.  He blearily rouses himself just in time to

see:

A mountain rushing toward him.  As mountain meets airplane, the

frame is filled with fire, but when camera pulls back from the

fireball, it is in fact no more than a match head filling frame,

which ignited, lights a fuse..

The MI theme music kicks in, the main credits roll to:

EXT - FACE OF MOUNTAIN (DAY)

For a moment it might be thought part of the same range when the

plane crashed but when Ethan Hunt climbs into frame the angle

widen and titles down, revealing more of where he's come from

than where he's going.  Aside from the fact that he's in the

midst of free-climbing what is easily a sheer rock face of at

least a thousand feet, there's the sunny picture-postcard view of

a lovely valley and pellucid lake thousands of feet below.  Ethan

climbs out of shot.

WIDE UP ANGLE (DAY)

revealing the summit, a light breeze hitting the lichen and

whatever growth has a slender purchase on the rocky mountainside,

fluffy clouds overhead.

Ethan into shot.  Despite the spectacularly precarious handholds

he's using to hang onto the mountain and his life, he appears

relaxed, engaged - for him - in the equivalent of busman's

holiday.  It's leisurely danger for Ethan; one might almost

expect to hear Julie Andrews trilling 'Climb Every Mountain' on

the soundtrack.

Then a rock he's been grasping crumbles and Ethan drops about six

inches before he grabs onto the mountain again.  As he hangs by

five fingers thousands of feet above the earth he doesn't seem

terribly concerned until he spots a helicopter.

It's materialized behind the summit and passes surprisingly close

just overhead, casting its shadow downward over Ethan.

Instinctively, Ethan flattens himself against the rock surface,

as if the copter poses some sort of threat to him.  But when

its rotors whir it into the distance Ethan relaxes and resumes his

climb.

A HAIRY OVERHANG (EXT. MOUNTAIN - DAY)

near the summit Ethan departing from the vertical and is now

traversing the mountain with more of his back than his feet

exposed to the earth far below.  He's clinging to the mountain

almost like a fly walking on the ceiling.  When he reaches for a

handhold that will restore him to the vertical, he dislodges a

lizard - and manages to catch it before it plunges thousand of

feet to oblivion.

He pockets the lizard, climbs the overhang.

REVERSE ANGLE - SUMMIT

with Ethan's hand, then Ethan coming into view and making the

summit.  He reaches into his pocket and releases the lizard who

favors Ethan with a stern reptilian stare by way of gratitude.  To

lizard:

The lizard scampers off, then a low beeping sound at his back

attracts his attention.  He turns to see the source of the

beeping, a small package in day-glo colors with a day-glo

streamer.  Ethan looks to the sky where the helicopter is now

ominously circling back.

Ethan lifts the day-glo package and waves it in the direction of

the copter.  With a distinct lack of enthusiasm.

The helicopter once again turns, banks and disappears.  Ethan has

opened the beeping package and finds a pair of sunglasses.

ETHAN'S POV SUNGLASSES

First, a retinal scan.

Swanbeck's face flashes onscreen.  Over his introduction of Nyah

is a series of satellite photographs whose subject is so elusive

she never seems to give the camera a clean shot.

A series of Nyah's 'accomplishments', i.e., warrants, complaints,

Interpol summaries of her various criminal activities, as well as

glimpses of the elusive Nyah circulating about Seville.

Swanbeck's face reappears on screen:

Ethan removes the glasses, then tosses them into space.

The glasses explode in a puff of smoke.

Ethan, with a fair amount of disgust, gets to his feet and jumps

off the mountain, in, what for a moment looks like a suicidal

snit.  Then, somewhere hundreds of feet below camera, there's a

little puff of color as the tulip-shaped chute pops out of his

back-pack.  Begin the sound of a castanets and the animal-like cries

of flamenco dancers.

EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (EVE)

Bustling in the activity of a large private party, with arriving

guests and attentive valets, as a young woman, her face unseen,

exits her car and enters the villa.

A FLASH OF SKIRT AND LACE (INT-EXT. VILLA - FLAMENCO DANCERS - EVE)

where to the cries of dancers add graceful feminine hands

wielding the castanets.  The dancers perform on a raised platform

and NYAH NORDOFF-HALL'S face can be glimpsed thru the swirling

skirts and pounding heels, looking thru, not at them.

REVERSE ANGLE - ETHAN

looking back in a similar way to Nyah; surreal lighting and the

relentless chorus of pounding heels seem to isolate them in the

crowed party.  Nyah continues to look at Ethan over the shoulder

over her wanna-be escort, a very attentive gentleman.  Nyah

offers up her empty glass, and the gentleman eagerly takes it to

the bar for a refill, leaving Nyah and Ethan looking at one

another.  Ethan approaches her.

This stops her.  Nyah moves closer to him, until they're nose

to nose.  Whispered but breezy:

Glancing at the gentleman making his way back with her drink

then:

And purposeful creature that she is, she takes her frustrated

desire upstairs, timing her footsteps so as to use the sound of

the dancer's steps to cover her own.  Once upstairs, a security

guard near the master bedroom can be seen eagerly following her

down the hall, both moving past a pair of windows, visible to

Ethan.  In a few moments, Nyah can be seen past the

windows in the opposite direction, without the guard following.

In another moment or two, a very puzzled looking security guard

can be glimpsed in the first window, looking up and down the

hall, clearly having lost sight of Nyah.  Ethan smiles, moves out

of shot.

INT - MASTER BEDROOM (EVE)

Nyah has opened the door and moves swiftly thru the bedroom.

INT - BATH (EVE)

A decadent looking affair with suggestive lighting, mirrored

walls.  The tub has a tray across it which includes a wine cooler

chilling a bottle of Crystal and a mound of caviar on a bed of

ice.  Nyah can't resist.  She spoons a dollop of the caviar and

downs it before she moves along the frescoed walls of the tub to

its back.  There, she pulls out her compact and removes the puff,

revealing an electronic density meter.  She turns it on and holds

it at the rear of the tub.  Its sweep gauge jumps sharply from

green thru yellow and into red.

She now steps into the tub and focuses on the grout between the

tiles just above the sop dish.  Her knee eyes search for any

cracks in the grout and she spots one.  Using a tweezers she

pulls the silver of the grout out from between the tiles, revealing

something that looks like a credit card wedged between the tiles.

She slips the card into a narrow opening under the sop dish.

There's the sound of hydraulics and two arms move the marble

casing out from the rear of the tub.  Nyah breathes a sigh of

relief and anticipation: kneeling in the tub she finds herself

looking down at an open safe, revealing some half-dozen locked

compartments.  As she studies them:

Nyah looks up to see Ethan's reflection in the bathroom

mirrors, looking down at her kneeling in the tub.

Before Ethan can answer, a voice can be heard coming from the

bedroom warbling Granada in Spanish, and with considerable gusto.

Nyah catches a reflection behind Ethan's in the bathroom mirror.

She reaches up and grabs Ethan by the lapel, yanking him into the

tub, pulling him down on top of her.  Once again they're nose to

nose.

She glances up at the mirror.  In it is the reflection of SENOR

AUGUSTO DE L'ARENA, a big amiable Castilian in his fifties who's

changing a white dinner jacket that's had wine split on it.  He

breaks into a heavily accented version of 'Now or Never', and

disappears from the dressing room mirror.

With a jaundiced look she rolls over on top of Ethan and begins

working on one of the safe compartments, using a tiny torque

wrench from a tube of lipstick and a carbide pick from a mascara

brush.  She glances down and is rather disconcerted.  Continues

working with the pick and wrench.

Looking down to Ethan, a touch of indignation:

LOOKING UP

more or less, hands locked behind his neck as he rests against

the raked back of the tub, his eyes and nose inches from Nyah's

lower pelvic region as she straddles him.  Not exactly in the mood

to move:

She stiffens - he knows too damn much.

She immediately switches her efforts from top left to the

bottom right compartment.  She's utterly nonplussed:

She unstraddles him and, with a few deft moves with the torque

wrench and carbide pick - and it's open.  She withdraws a velvet

pouch and opens the pouch.  Out spills the spectacular necklace.

The alarm goes off.

The bathroom is suddenly filled with security guards, gun drawn

Senor de l'Arena, looking highly upset, pops in.

Senor de l'Arena kisses Nyah's hand.

Nyah's initial shock and panic slowly gives way to a wary,

intensified curiosity - about Ethan.

He offers Nyah his arm.  They start out.  Ethan immediately stops.

Nyah looking genuinely puzzled.

Nyah slowly reaches into her dress and withdraws the glittering

string of diamonds and rubies from her bust.

They all laugh, and Ethan's got her out the door.

EXT - ANDALUSIAN VILLA (LATE NIGHT - PRE DAWN)

The stars dimming, the sky a gun metal blue.  Ethan and Nyah

emerge from the villa, walking slowly.  Nyah's clearly

preoccupied.

Her car arrives.

One foot on the floorboard she freezes, back to Ethan.

She slides behind the wheel.

She takes off, spewing bits of gravel and dust in her wake.

Ethan smiles and shakes his head.

ON THE ROAD - NYAH (MOVING)

around curves, hair flying, she's free.  Her car phone rings.

Perplexed, she lets it ring once or twice picks it up:

She hits the End button and disconnects.  The phone immediately

rings again.  She refuses to pick up.  Ethan pulls alongside hers.

She looks at him.  They speak through the open cars.

She floors it and shoots ahead of Ethan, nicking his car as she takes off.

SERIES OF DRIVING SHOTS - NYAH AND ETHAN

Ethan rings her again.  And keeps ringing.  Her face becomes

grim, her flight progressively more desperate and with Ethan's

pursuit progressively more determined.  They are reaching the

limits of adhesion around blind curves.

MORE SHOTS DRIVING (DAWN)

The sky's battleship gray; Ethan pursues Nyah around hairpin

turns high above the Costa del Sol; they rip thru patches of

marine fog drifting on the road, obscuring it.

Both are appalled by the other's willingness to escalate risk in

this game of flight and pursuit until Ethan tears thru a fogbank

and sees on his GPS what Nyah can't see thru the fog -

less than four hundred meters ahead is a turn she can't possibly

negotiate and if she can't she'll plunge off the road hundreds of

feet to rock and sea below.  Ringing her number again:

She turns up a mound and loses control.  She spins out and heads

toward the edge of the cliff.

Ethan cuts her off and sends them both into a 540 degree spin.

Her car stops just at the cliff's edge.

Furious she wrenches open the car door and gets out.

Suddenly there's no Nyah.  Ethan leaps over to Nyah's car and

sees Nyah dangling over the ocean and rocks hundreds of feet

below, holding the door handle.

Taking a firm grip on her wrist.

He pulls Nyah up to the car, across the seat and half into

his arms.  For a long moment it looks like she's in shock.  Then:

Thru the veil of morning fog, Nyah looks at Ethan.  Her dark eyes

suggest wit, and willingness, and longing.

They scarcely to move to bring their lips together:

DISSOLVE:

CLOSE - ETHAN (INT-EXT. SAFEHOUSE - SEVILLE - DAY-EVE)

sleeping.  His eyes open slowly.  He comes to full consciousness,

his head still on the pillow.  Something approaching serious

anxiety informs his features.  He lifts his head and looks at his

left, angle widening.  Nyah lies on her side facing him,

sleeping serenely.  Anxiety on the order of oh-God-this-isn't-

approved-recruiting-technique, confirmed.  He lets his head flop

back on the pillow.  Then he turns so he and Nyah are profile to-

profile.  As he looks at her sleeping his anxiety fades, replaced

by curiosity and even wonder.  He lifts his hand and just

brushes her cheek.  Her eyes open.  She knows where she is.

Nyah smiles.

Ethan laughs.

Nyah shoulder and moves into Ethan.

Nyah stops to think about this.

Nyah looks at Ethan, a little worried.

Nyah laughs.

Quick as a cat Ethan flips Nyah over so she's looking down

at him.

She sinks into his arms.

EXT-INT - STREET - SEVILLE (VALENCIA FESTIVAL) (EVE)

Ethan's step is unusually jaunty as he bounces along, making his

way thru the festive and jostling crowds preparing for the

portion of the

mache effigies, some serious, some comic, are placed all thru the

city and torched in great bonfires.  Outside the bar Ethan's

looking for there's a street vendor, hawking Fallas mementos and

flowers.  He starts past the vendor, and it hits him - he's going

to buy some flowers.

He chooses a colorful spring bouquet so fresh the dew can be

seen on the petals.  Ethan pays the vendor, starts into the bar,

and thinks better of walking into Swanbeck with the bouquet.

Turns back to the vendor.

Ethan enter the bar and goes upstairs to the second floor where

he passes security at a pair of double doors.

INT - IMF BRIEFING ROOM

Swanbeck stands looking out the window.  Noisy crowds from the

festival provides a constant walla, and during the sequence, the

first effigies are lit, and smoke and flame provide a vivid

background thru briefing room's window.

Ethan sits.

A moment where it's impossible to tell which way the wind is

going to blow between these two.  Then civilly:

Swanbeck turns to his computer and begins play on a DVD, and

projected onto a computer screen staring back at Ethan is:

VLADIMIR NEKHORVICH

Nekhorvich pauses as if waiting for reply.  Ethan smiles.

Ethan laughs.

With Ethan simultaneously whispering:

Swanbeck stops the DVD.

Ethan smiles.

Ethan sits back, heavily.

Slowly looking up:

Swanbeck clears his throat.  He turns back to the computer and

punches in:

of AMBROSE, SEAN, and HUNT, ETHAN, the computer scanning and

comparing their features, millimeter by millimeter, stat by stat,

as the computer then imposes, with the help of the physiognomy

scan, Ethan's face on Ambrose: hence, mission double image.

ETHAN

slowly looks up at Swanbeck.

Swanbeck shows Ethan a photo of airline Captain.

Another photo of an open suitcase, the body in it partially

obscured by a ring of police and customs officers.

Ethan barely nods.

Ethan gives Swanbeck a look.

Ethan smiles.

Ethan rises and moves to the window.

Ethan's anger flashes but does his best to contain it.

He pulls out a little Minolta digital camera (identical to the

one in Nekhorvich's bag at airport security).  Swanbeck sets it on

the table.  Ethan picks it up the tiny camera and puts it to his eye.

EXT - BAR (NIGHT)

A grim Ethan, starring fixedly ahead of him emerges to an ever

more lively crowd.  as he does:

The vendor holds up the spring bouquet.  Ethan seems genuinely

surprised by them.

And he's lost in the crowd, leaving a very puzzled vendor holding

the bouquet.

STILL OF CRASH SITE IN ROCKIES (THRU MINOLTA STILL CAMERA)

One after the other flashing by.  They are more evocative than

specific in their suggestion of an abrupt, fiery, ending, where

the lives of hundred are literally and figuratively torn apart

and strewn over a desolate landscape.

NYAH

carefully places the little Minolta on a glass-topped coffee

table.  She's beautifully pulled together, the safehouse has the

lights low, flamenco music playing, and when she walks out onto

the balcony Ethan sees the candlelit table and a bottle of

champagne chilling.  There's a light breeze the fire from the

burning effigies throwing smoke and flame all over the city.

A long shocked moment.  Nyah laughs.

INT - SAFEHOUSE (EVE - LATER)

The pounding beat of the flamenco music seems to fill the room

Nyah's back to Ethan:

She approaches Ethan.  They're inches apart.

With a smile and a wink.

Long moment while she looks at him.

Ethan walks out onto the balcony.  She looks at his back.

Ethan's been smiling slightly.

NYAH IN A SPANISH JAIL

standing for front and side mug shot.  O.S. sound of teletype

continues.  SUPERIMPOSE:  Ethan holding up something the size of

a dime:

On the screen of the GPS computer, a little yellow blip appears

pulsating on the screen.

OVER ETHAN AND ONTO COMPUTER SCREEN

He types a small Interpol bulletin stating that Nyah Nordoff

Hall, apprehended March 13 in Seville, is awaiting extradition

while the authorities in London, Paris, and Amsterdam squabble

over where she's going to be tried first, for the various thefts

and burglaries she's committed in the three cities.

COMPUTER SCREEN (AMBROSE TENT ANNEX - DAY)

Ambrose picking up on a version of the Interpol bulletin Ethan's

put out.  He leans over the screen for a moment, then moves to

the window, and stares out thoughtful at the bay, almost as if

he were watching...

EXT - NYAH IN JAIL COURTYARD

From a beautiful blue sky,  pan down to the courtyard of the jail

where Nyah is allowed out for an airing, seemingly alone but

being watched by:

ETHAN AND COMPUTER SCREEN

His attention fixed on the screen, Ethan stares at satellite

shot of Nyah in the jail courtyard.

INT - PRISON - NYAH

being allowed a phone call, a prison guard visible b.g.  Cross

cut with Ethan.

Her guard, b.g. is handed a note.

ETHAN AND COMPUTER SCREEN

SECTOR: AUSTRALIA, moving into NEW SOUTH WALES, and then to:

Sydney.  Here Ethan pulls up names, photos and profiles of

potential candidates.  They scroll past, one face morphing into

another.  Ethan punches in on WILLIAM A. BAIRD.  EXPERTISE:

Qualified in virtually every mode of transport, land, sea, air.

ORDINANCES: Small arms and automatic weapons authority, edged and

impact weapons.  PROCUREMENT: Resourceful.  EXPLOSIVES: Precision

detonation, diffusion.

Ethan punches:

EXT - GOVERNMENT BUILDING - SEVILLE (DAY)

Nyah emerges from the entrance to the jail.

She does.  They're effectively blocked from the street.

Ethan hands her a key chain with what appear to be a car-key.

She takes the key chain.  Her hands are shaking.

They rise.  A quick squeeze of her hand and he's gone.  A look of

something like longing replaces the toughness as she gazes after

him, then starts across the street toward the limo and driver.  MI

music theme kicks in and continues over:

POV HELICOPTER (MOVING - SYDNEY - DAY)

over the Harbor Bridge, sails dotting the bay like confetti.

EXT - FARM (DAY)

pans of sheep are bleating and looking for sort of cover in

response to the sound of a helicopter touching down.

EXT - COPTER (DAY)

Billy and Luther emerge, Luther with computer looking acutely

uncomfortable in a wrinkled suit.

They look up to a smiling Ethan who points to the ground beneath

Luther's feet.  Luther looks down to see that he is standing in a

pile of sheep-shit.

Both men laugh and all three move to:

INT - FARMHOUSE (DAY)

Luther and Billy with Ethan setting up their operation.  There's

a blip on one of the screens.

As Billy speaks, the visual come on line and Nyah has become

visible.

Ethan pointedly ignore the question.

POV - MOVING (PALM BEACH - DAY)

rounding the tip of the bay's crescent, revealing the beach and

dock at Ambrose's palm-lined residence.

NYAH

The speedboat's engine's are cut.  Nyah looks momentarily

stricken.

POV NYAH (MOVING)

a lone slender figure silhouetted at the end of the dock, still

as the piling besides which it stands.  But the features remain

obscured by the sun at his back.

ETHAN

leans forward as the slender figure grows larger,

POV - MOVING

The tide is too low for the boat to dock, making it necessary for

he boat to approach the shore.  The slender figure moves off the

end of the dock and onto the beach.

THE CIGARETTE

idles into shadow water but the props start chewing into the

sand - the boatman grumbles he can't get any closer.  The slender

figure has moved to the shoreline and the angle of the light

changes - Ambrose is waiting.

Nyah hesitates only a flicker of an instant, slips over the side

into thigh-high water without taking her eyes off Ambrose.

Ambrose strides right on into the bay.  as they are just an arm's

length apart:

NYAH

takes a deep breath, presses the button to scramble the

transponder.

WITH ETHAN (INT. SHEEPFARM SAFEHOUSE)

The picture abruptly goes dead.

Luther punches in.  The signal - and the global coordinates are

given.  They wait.

INT - SPACE

The satellite positions itself.

WITH THE THREE

Luther shoots him a disgusted look.

THE SIGNALS AND PHOTOS

start to bounce back, growing larger and larger on the screen,

until:  Nyah can be seen, water up to her thighs, lingering in

Ambrose's arms with each blow-up, and linger.  And lingering.

Ethan's look suggests he's worried about lapse in recruiting

judgment.

Ethan strides away from the screen, the edge in his voice and the

move not altogether lost on either Luther or Billy.

INT - THE BAY (EXT. PALM BEACH - DAY)

Perfectly poised, still loosely in his arms, Nyah returns

Ambrose's penetrating gaze with a pleasant, clear eyed one.

POV THRU TENT ANNEX WINDOW (AMBROSE COMPOUND)

looking down the length of the dock.  Ambrose, his arm around

Nyah and carrying her suitcase, moves up the dock toward the

house and camera.

Stamp steps into the annex and looks over to Wallis, who watches

Nyah on the monitors.

INT - ETHAN - SAFEHOUSE (SHEEP FARM - DAY)

Ethan watches the Nekhorvich video on the computer screen.

Ethan then flips through a series of pictures on the computer

depicting the myth of Bellerophon attacking Chimera.

Billy moves up behind him.

Luther scans an entry from the IMF database with newspaper

clippings, sidebars of still of McCloy and Nekhorvich.

Billy leaves.

As Luther transfer info to Ethan's computer:

On Ethan's screen appears the Biocyte website; where among he

various icons one offer McCloy's proud detailing of Biocyte's

philanthropic efforts:

INT - AMBROSE'S (DAY)

They've reached the head of the stairs.  Ambrose opens a door.

It's a large bedroom opening onto a veranda with a view of the

tent annex and the beach, and a very large bed.

A long moment.  Ambrose walks to a mirrored wall.  The mirrors

are sliding doors.  With a sweeping gesture, he slides one of the

mirrors back and reveals a wardrobe of beautiful designer

clothes.

Nyah stares at the spectacular wardrobe.  Ambrose pulls out a

slinky Armani and drapes it on the bed.

Nyah hesitates.

Nyah picks it up.

Ambrose sits on a chair by the window and waits.  Her blouse,

belt, skirt, fall on the bed.  As her slender arm reaches down to

pick up the Armani:

AMBROSE

grips her wrist, the flimsy Armani dangling in the air.

CLOSE - NYAH

meeting Ambrose's look.

The Armani falls in a fragile heap on the floor.

CLOSE - ETHAN (DUSK)

standing off to one side, listening to Nekhorvich's voice.

CLOSE - NYAH (INT. AMBROSE BEDROOM - DUSK)

lying back on a pillow, looking and off into space to right

off camera.  She hears Ambrose's voice, with Ethan's voice

Nyah reacts as if she'd been rapped on the nose, her eyes

moist.  She turns abruptly to camera.

AMBROSE

leaning on an elbow, looking down.

Ambrose, amused, lights a cigarette and inhaling:

CLOSE - ETHAN (SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE - DUSK)

Luther resumes working on his computer and sees Ethan is locked

on Ambrose's compound on his computer screen, thinking of Nyah.

Ethan stands.

OUTSIDE THE SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE

A brooding Ethan exits the sheep farm safehouse under a setting

sun.

Ethan stops, looking out over the broken plain.  His voice is

heard overlapping into the next scene.

CLOSE - NYAH (NIGHT)

lying in bed, obviously hearing Ethan's voice again, and feeling

very much alone.  She stares out into the night, a gaze that in

its bemused intensity is an exact match to Ethan's.

FADE:

CLOSE - PHOTO - HONG KONG TIMES (INT. AMBROSE STUDY - EARLY DAWN)

its front page, except for the headlines and date, covered with

stacks of paper money, banded bundled dollars piled high as a

cord of wood.  The amount $24 millions is written in ink over the

money.

Ambrose's hands shift to another photo of another newspaper, the

LONDON TIMES, this one piled high with English pounds and the

written amount: 37 million pounds.

The third photo is of the AFTERNOON ARUBAN, with $14 million

packaged on it.

Ambrose, wearing a robe and seated at a glass-topped table, sets

this last photo on the table on top the others.  He picks up

Nekhorvich's digital camera, removes the film disk, and snaps it

into its plastic case. He places the case into an envelope

(NOTE: The same envelope seen at the track) and hands it to

Stamp.

Stamp is seated near him.  Glances toward Ambrose's bedroom and

Nyah asleep in Ambrose's bed.

As he speaks, Ambrose pulls a cigar case and a cutter out of his

robe.  Takes a cigar out of the case and clips the end of the

cigar; the razor-sharp cutter decapitates the tip of the cigar

like a guillotine.

Ambrose opens the cutter again to clean off the fragments of

tobacco trapped by the cut.

Sean touches the nail of Stamp's left pinkie finger.  Stamp

reacts by slightly withdrawing his hand.

With his left hand Ambrose grabs Stamp's left wrist.

Sean pulls Stamp's hand closer.

Ambrose twists Stamp's wrist so that Stamp drops to one knee

trying to alleviate the pain.

Ambrose leans in close to Stamp's face as he places the cutter

around Stamp's pinkie.

Ambrose closes the cutter on Stamp's finger and cuts the nail,

just nicking the top of the finger and drawing blood.  Stamp

cries out.  Ambrose tosses Stamp a napkin, light his cigar and

exhale.

EMPTY FRAME (EXT. RANDWICK RACE TRACK - DAY)

with no sound, the back stretch an unrecognizable blur until

horses at high speed burst into the frame bringing with them the

sight and sound of their great nostrils snorting and gasping for

jostling and going to the whip, the sound of the crowd

overwhelming all but the announcer's voice carrying everyone

around the far turn and into the home stretch with a ringing,

controlled frenzy.

EXT - PRIVATE BLEACHER (DAY)

Nyah and Ambrose rising as the horses cross the finish.

She smiles, a little shakily.  Ambrose leaves.

It's Billy passing behind her.

Billy hands her a chest sheet and moves on.  She opens it to the

fourth race.  Taped onto 'Naturally Vain' is a small plastic

piece with the note.  she regards the note, places the plastic

piece in her ear.

THRU BINOCULARS - NYAH'S POV - MOVING

thru the crowd onto the track over to the pre-post paddock where

an animated gaggle of owners, heavy batters and investerace touts

surround it.  Only Ethan is stock still - and looking up at Nyah.

CLOSE - NYAH

a swift intake of breath as she see him.

She appears to be the picture of unruffled sang-froid.

ETHAN'S POV (THRU GLASSES)

moving from Nyah to the champagne bar just behind where Ambrose

is seen greeting someone in the crowd and they sit at a corner

table in front of the window overlooking the track.

POV ETHAN

Stamp, stands a pillar, his finger bandages, looking

glum and looking down at Nyah.

ETHAN'S POV MONOCULAR VIDEO RANGE FINDER

of Ambrose sitting with someone whose face is obscured from his

angle by bar patrons.

BILLY

is also looking.

POV RANGE FINDER BILLY

and from his point of view it can be seen that Ambrose is talking

with John McCloy, the head Biocyte.  Ambrose takes an envelope

out of his inner left jacket pocket and from it pulls out a small

plastic container marked 'S.G.' (Identical to the object first

seen in Nekhorvich's satchel at airport security.)  He opens it

and removes a small shiny object about the size of a quarter.  He

turns to the window and gestures.  Stamp enters the bar.

ETHAN'S POV

INT - VAN - LUTHER

is monitoring both cameras.  All see Ambrose give the little

wafer-like object to Stamp who places it in a small camera, hands

it back to Ambrose and exits, waiting just outside the glass

door.  Ambrose hands the camera to McCloy who looks puzzled.

McCloy puts it to his eye, fumbles, then with Ambrose's

direction:

McCloy puts the camera down.  The two men have words.  McCloy

shakily leave the table.  Ambrose opens the camera.

ETHAN BY THE MOUNTING ENCLOSURE

AMBROSE

passes by Stamp on his way back, hands him the camera.

WIDE ANGLE - BLEACHER (DAY)

Ambrose arriving with a pair of drinks.  Nyah rises.

While Ambrose is still juggling the drinks, Nyah reaches into his

trouser pockets, and rummages around.

She pulls out a fifty-dollar note.

She heads up the stairs.

Ambrose grabs her arm, and she almost drops the envelope she's

just lifted.  (NOTE: It is important not to see her actually lift

it).  She's holding it, pinned between her right arm and side.  As

it's slipping, she notes Stamp above her, looking down and has to

conceal what she's holding from him as well:

She takes it and as she does the envelope falls, but she manages

to catch it with her left hand, blocking the move with her body

as she does.

WIDER ANGLE - NYAH

moves along the aisle.

EXT - VAN (DAY)

designated as NEW SOUTH WALES DELIVERIES, 'anytime, anywhere.'

Luther bursts out of the van, carrying the tiny camera and begins

to thread his way thru cars and foot traffic.

BILLY

in dramatic contrast ambles at a conspicuously leisurely pace.

NYAH

passes Stamp, not seeing him standing just a row above, blocked

from her by one of the pillars.  Stamp idly regards her and then

decides: he follows.

LUTHER

perspiring, approaches the betting table thru the last of the

parked cars.

STAMP

approaches the door thru which Nyah had gone and starts to open

it - only to have the door slammed in his face and on his

bandaged finger by Billy, in a track usher's uniforms.

Even as Stamp winces in pain his arm has shot out and Billy finds

himself pinned to the wall gasping for air.  If he'd been welded

there by a band of steal he'd have more room to maneuver.

Stamp looks around, Nyah's nowhere in sight.  He's lost her.  Sees

his hand's bleeding and lets Billy go, who nearly drops to the

floor.

Stamp heads up the men's room.

Shakes his head, feeling lucky to escape with his life.

EXT - PADDOCK - BETTING TABLE TWELVE

Nyah into shot.  Stands in line.  She looks around.

Nyah turns and looks Ethan dead in the eye.

She slips Ethan the envelope.  Ethan himself returns the look,

holding it in spite of:

Luther arrives, with the camera, opening for Ethan.  Nyah turns

away.  Ethan pulls out the tiny memory card, slips it in the

camera.

LUTHER

is racing back to the van.

NYAH AND ETHAN (IN LINE)

edge toward the window.

INT - VAN (DAY)

A sweaty Luther:

Ethan places the digital camera on play and begins to go thru the

stills.  As they cliff off, Ethan is visibly affected.

LUTHER IN THE VAN

watches the stills as well.  He's no less affected.

ETHAN WITH NYAH

He mutters some expletive under his breath, then, evenly:

Ethan glances over to the bottom of the stairs.

As he lowers camera and removes the memory card.

Slipping card back into envelope.

Ethan's been talking to someone he's been urging to walk, not run

to the nearest exit.  Now he drops all pretence:

She just gets it out of her hear and gives it to Ethan when she

reaches the bookie who warns her to get down her bet.  She gives

him her money and gets the tickets just as the buzzer goes off -

no more bets.  Flustered by it she picks up her tickets but drops

the envelope.  She quickly kneels and scrambles to recover it,

tucking it away and looking up - to see Stamp standing over her.

almost exactly where Ethan had stood when she looked away.

NYAH

tries not to register alarm while she gauges how much Stamp had

seen.

She rises.  Stamp waits only a moment then follows.

AT THE PRIVATE BLEACHERS (DAY)

everyone's on their feet, the horses are in the backstretch.

Ambrose is watching the race through binoculars.  Nyah comes up

behind and puts her arms around him.  With her left hand she puts

the envelope into his right jacket pocket.

She's momentarily startled.  Then:

A BLOW UP (INT. SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE - DAY)

of a shot from a digital camera card.

The photos is coded with the data in the lower left hand corner,

01.27.99, the time in the right, 10:02:56 A.M.  Burned into the

photo is '20 hours, 03 minutes after exposure.'

Ethan paunches in.

Ethan doesn't say anything for a moment, then goes on to the next

photo on the card: '25 hours, 40 minutes after exposure.'  It's

Gradski again.  Gradski's eyes are darkly circled, his skull look

mottled.

Another photo: '31 hours, 30 minutes after exposure.' Gradski's

bleeding from nose, mouth and ears, the skin eruptions are

pervasive, his body an open wound.

The next photo.  '34 hours, 25 minutes after exposure.'  Gradski's

body at rest.

The victim's face shows a devastation undeniably like Gradski's.

A long, long moment as Ethan, Luther, and Billy sit in silence.

Ethan looks again at the first photo of Gradski.

CLOSE - NYAH (EXT. AMBROSE VERANDA - LATE AFTERNOON)

Nyah is on the balcony.  Ambrose enters with two glasses of

champagne.

He laughs.  She doesn't.

INT - AMBROSE STUDY (LATE AFTERNOON)

Ambrose enters, slips off his jacket and hangs it over a chair.

He walks to a desk and brings up a computer the Biocyte website

and McCloy infomercial.  Stamp notes that Ambrose is

on the computer and moves to the desk.

Stamp leans over and pulls out the envelope.  As he does he sees

Ambrose has pulled up and started to play McCloy's informercial.

CAMERA CARD PHOTOS (INT. SHEEP FARM - ETHAN & CREW)

a microscopic view of myriads of ugly green spiky objects amid

exploding red ones..

One more shot.  A lavender stained group of spiky objects amid

exploding the green ones.

On an adjacent screen is a frozen frame of McCloy looking thru

the digital camera at the racetrack.

EXT - LIMO (EVE)

McCloy gets in the rear of the limo and lights up a cigar.  The

limo takes off.  another car pulls out and tags along behind the

limo.

INT - OTHER CAR (MOVING)

Michael at the wheel.

INT - LIMO - MOVING (EVE)

McCloy doesn't like the taste of the cigar, goes to toss it out

but the electronic window button doesn't work.  He notices the

evening paper partially open on the seat.  His name leaps out. He

opens the paper

THE HEADLINES

announce that John C. McCloy, CEO of Biocyte, Inc., one of the

world's leading pharmaceutical companies, has died of a straight

and terrible strain of influenza

Shocked, McCloy drops the paper, calling out:

The drover doesn't turn around.  McCloy can't believe it.  He

bangs on chauffeur window.  The driver turns on the air

conditioning in the rear of the limo.  McCloy clutches his throat

and passes out.

MCCLOY (INT. ICU UNIT - NIGHT)

regains consciousness.  He's got tubes coming out of every

orifice and is contained in the equivalent of a plastic bubble.

Drenched in perspiration and he looks around for a call button.

He grips the side of the bed.

He can't resist.  Opens them to look up thru the plastic to see:

NEKHORVICH

a shimmering blur coming in and out of focus.

INT - AMBROSE BEDROOM (NIGHT) NYAH

is on the phone.

The operator answers.

She hangs up, goes to the door.  The house is eerily silent.

POV - STAIRWELL (NIGHT)

a play of shadows, the sound of the kitchen fridge.

CLOSE - NYAH

Moves softly downstairs & hesitates at bottom, glancing about.

Silence.  she goes into the kitchen.  No one.  She goes out the door.

OVER NYAH'S SHOULDER - MOVING (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT)

running pell-mell down to the shore.  Stops.  Looks outside the

small skiff moored at the end of the dock.  It's dark and she

decides to chance it.  She moves onto the pier, trying to glide

by the boathouse.  A figure darts out and grabs her.  She tries to

scream but can't.  The figure whips her around and she sees:

She throws her arms around him.

He holds her.

INT - HOSPITAL ROOM

McCloy's strapped down, but manages to reach the call button and

push it.  Again and again.

McCloy stares at Nekhorvich for a long moment.

Nekhorvich shrugs.

McCloy again looks at his vital sign on the monitor.  He grips

the edge of the hospital bed.

McCloy breaks a fresh sweat in a sudden spasm of anxiety.

INT - HALLWAY (OUTSIDE MCCLOY'S ROOM)

Nekhorvich heaves a sigh and rips off a latex mask, and the vocal

oscillator, revealing an exhausted Ethan.  Angle widens to

include Luther and Billy in hospital greens.

Luther and Billy nod in disgusted assent.

EXT - ANNEX (NIGHT) NYAH

holds tight in her embrace with Ethan.

He gives her an affectionate smile and she reluctantly heads back

to the house, her expression troubled, even suspicious.

INT - HALLWAY (OUTSIDE MCCLOY'S ROOM)

Having just taken off the mask, Ethan stands with Luther and Billy.

EXT - AMBROSE HOUSE (NIGHT)

Ethan enters and tears off his mask, revealing Ambrose filled

with implacable rage.  He looks up to see Stamp who's been

obviously waiting for him.  Tearing the voice oscillator.

Leaning with both hands on a counter-surveillance monitor table

he stares at the floor, his face rictus of hateful intensity.

Ambrose looks up slowly to Stamp who's been standing by.

CHAUFFEUR'S WINDOW (INT. LIMO - EVE)

being rapped on by the driver.

MCCLOY

wakes with a start.  The window's lowered -- Billy's in livery.

It's taking time to register.  Then:

Still dazed, McCloy manages to nod and exit the limo.  Billy

drives off.

CLOSE - COMPUTER SCREEN - BIOCYTE BUILDING BLUEPRINTS

(INT. SHEEP FARM SAFEHOUSE)

including all specifications.

Luther punches in and up comes a squat little island a hundred

yards off shore, connected to the mainland by a wooden bridge.

Then:

As Luther speaks, the building - on his computer graphics, one

with the BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS ELEVATORS AND RENDERINGS, is

being rapidly morphed to three dimension existence off the

rendering specifications by Luther, as if the building itself

were being constructed at a madly rapid pace, from its foundation

to its reinforced steel structure, to its honeycombing of floors,

to its outer skin.  Luther's reconstitution of the building lot

static, but moving around and above it even as he proceeds.

BIOCYTE LAB

Only about eight personnel -- chemists in lab coats, workers in

bio-containment suits, etc. -- populate the lab, passing through

security door and air locks, monitoring the virus stock, pading

the injection gun, etc.

WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN

Ethan watches the rendition of the Biocyte lobby on screen

CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT)

in overhead light, his eyes are dark pits, somehow underlying her

saturnine intensity:

INT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT

The height and extent of the atrium are revealed, as well as its

conclusion in a glass floor in the ceiling of the lab.

WITH LUTHER AND ETHAN

Luther sees the glint growing in Ethan's eye.

EXT - BIOCYTE ATRIUM SHAFT

As the sun sets, the louvers of the atrium roof begin closing.

CLOSE - AMBROSE (NIGHT)

Suddenly there's the roar of helicopter rotors.

ETHAN (EXT. SYDNEY - NIGHT)

is poised, upside down, on cable against the Sydney skyline.

THE ATRIUM LOUVERS

begin to open.

WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN)

hurriedly working the atrium's controls, hitting 'ENTER',

repeatedly.

INT - COPTER (HOVERING)

Ethan plummets towards the atrium.

WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN - NIGHT)

ETHAN'S DESCENT

is so swift it appears as though he's going to hit the atrium

louvers but as he reaches roof level they crack open just enough

for him to dart thru like thread thru a needle

Luther begins the countdown.  His countdown continues, running

under the action and dialogue below.

ETHAN IN MID-DESCENT (MOVING)

moves down the shaft of bluish light, past the building's walls.

Ethan streaks thru the beams of light toward the atrium floor.

INT - ATRIUM FLOOR - ETHAN

reaches the end of the cord, slows himself to a stop and sees

the security guard through the window. The guard starts as he

catches a glimpse of Ethan's reflection in the control panels.

CLOSE - LUTHER

INT - ATRIUM FLOOR

Ethan swings himself up to the ledge above the guard's window,

putting himself out of the puzzled guard's sight.

Ethan unhooks the cord and flips to the atrium floor.  An alarm

goes off.

Still confused and concerned, the guard doesn't immediately react

to the alarm or the ringing phone.  He finally answers the phone.

The first guard gives up what's confused him.

UP ANGLE - CABLE

being swiftly retracted toward the atrium's opening as it closes.

UP ANGLE - ATRIUM

The cable just makes it thru the atrium as the louvers close.

INT - ATRIUM FLOOR - ETHAN

reaches down and presses a silent beeper.

WITH LUTHER (INT. VAN)

sees a little red diamond-shaped light pop on his screen

Staring at the buildings control panels.

ETHAN (INT. ATRIUM)

hugs the floor just out of sight of the befuddled security guard.

WITH LUTHER

CLOSE - GENERATORS

dark and silent.

GENERATORS

turn over and roar to life.

ETHAN AT BOTTOM OF ATRIUM

cuts into the glass floor, pops it out, and drops thru the

opening.  None of it's heard under the generators..

Ethan drops onto the lab floor and heads across the lab and up

the ramp to the hot zone.

INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY (NIGHT)

Stamp, flanked by several of his team in Biocyte security guard

uniform, crosses the lobby toward a pair of actual Biocyte

security guards who appear more puzzled than alarmed at this

unexpected influx.

WITH LUTHER (INT. CONSTRUCTION VAN - NIGHT)

His attention in drawn to a spot on the grid where Nyah's

transponder blip, a circular yellow one in contrast to Ethan's,

is moving.  Troubled:

INT - CHOPPER

INT - BIOCYTE LOBBY

The two guards who had greeted Stamp and his arriving team lie

inert on the lobby floor.

WITH BILLY (INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT)

Billy's so surprised he momentarily gets loose with the copter

and it banks off.  As it and he recover:

WITH LUTHER

staring at the red and yellow blips in vertical alignment, the

Yellow one, Nyah, considerably below the red one, Ethan.

INT - HOT ZONE ENTRANCE (NIGHT)

The door reads.  DANGER: LIVE VIRUS: INCUBATION ZONE.

miniaturized recorder up to the voice print activator:

Ethan's buzzed into the hot zone.  He steps into the air locks.

INT - SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE

A small bomb is placed by the dark gloves of someone unseen.

EXT - CONSTRUCTION VAN - NIGHT

a shadow falls across the dirt in front of the bumper.

A SMALL OBJECT

with a digital clock face, its red LED illuminating descending

numbers, is carefully placed inside the bumper.  The magnet on it

doesn't quite catch.  It's then placed more carefully.

INT - CONSTRUCTION VAN

Luther doesn't pick up on the faint metallic sound just outside.

He's concentrating on the flashes on the screen showing the

transponder rising in the building.  Increasingly desperate:

ETHAN

working meticulously an a computer monitor.

DOWN ANGLE - ELEVATOR DOORS

and a security guard's body lying in the corridor.  A pair of

trousered legs step over the body and into the elevator joining

Nyah's legs and feet, and other pairs of trousered legs.  The

elevator doors close.

CLOSE LUTHER

On his computer screen the yellow dot continues its ascent, the

two dots growing ever closer.

INT - INCUBATION ZONE

In front of each of three large television monitors is a vial

shaped roughly like a sealed beaker somewhere between one and two

liters in size.  Each one is contained behind Plexiglas and each

one pale yellow, one sunset red.  Behind them are monitors marked,

respectively:  WORKING SEED STOCK, MASTER SEED STOCK, IN VITRO

VIRUS.  Behind these is a monitor screen with a blow-up of the

contents of the vials & the magnitude of the blow-up - 950,000x.

These are X-Ray microscope blow-ups, i.e., allowing the viewer to

see the motility of the virus and its metabolism, not dissimilar

to an MRI this of Chimera in its three different cultures..

Ethan's on the computer controls, racing thru to WORKING SEED

STOCK, which calls for optimal levels of 6.9 pH and 11

degrees Celsius.  He drops the pH to zero and punches up the

temperature to a hundred.  The effect on the greenish hue in

the bottle is subtle but immediate - not so subtle is the

effect on the virus seeds viewed microscopically - they

immediately appear agitated, their microscopic DNA innards

contracting and expanding.

Ethan moves on to the Master Seed Stock and the In Vitro Virus

panels on the computer.  The changes he makes are reflected on

the digital monitoring panels before each viral container.

THE WORKING SEED

vial has begun to change colors from sea green to a paler pea-

green.  The liquid itself begins to thicken:

As the liquid grows more viscous the X-Ray have a progressively

more difficult time penetrating the individual cells, resulting

in a low humming sound which grows as the liquid gels.

ETHAN

at the control panels for maintaining the virus.

The X-Ray microscope shows the individual seed-cells sticking

together, some exploding, then all movement ceasing.  The Liquid

itself is suddenly shod thru fluorescent sparks before it

congeals to an opaque mush.

Simultaneously with the seed stock, Ethan's damaging both the

working seed in-vitro virus.

WIDE ANGLE - HOT ZONE

Ethan places a little plastique on a timer and runs up a ramp to

the decontaminant air lock at the back entrance to the hot zone.

CLOSE - LUTHER'S SCREEN

The read and yellow blips are now on the same plane.  The yellow

dot moves toward the red one as if drawn by a slow motion magnet.

DOWN ANGLE - ETHAN

looking up as his entire body is hit with air like he's a wind

tunnel.  When the air flow ceases, a green light goes on.

ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

heads up a ramp to the three injection guns.  Hands in gloves he

reaches into the chamber for one of the injection guns.

He places the barrel of the gun, seals the chamber, and fires.

There's a tiny flash of light.  Ethan withdraws the gun.

INT - CONSTRUCTION VAN

Luther's sweating it as the clock counts down:  :30, :29, :28..

In a spasm of anxiety Luther bolts to his feet, wipes his brow.

Luther glances thru the van window only to see reflected in the

van side mirror:

MIRROR REFLECTION - CHROME BUMPER (EXT. CONSTRUCTION VAN)

reflected in it is the face of a digital clock, its red LED

illuminating the clock's numbers fourteen - thirteen - twelve -

WITH LUTHER

Even as he moans he's frantically ripping out the computer and

cords dangling, hotfoots toward the van exit.

INT - HOT ZONE - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

Ethan fires the second injection gun.  Picks up the third and

last.  He pauses as he's about to fire it, staring intently

suddenly the gun is held by:

NEKHORVICH

who turns the barrel from the hyper-thermal chamber and releases

into his wrist.

BACK TO ETHAN - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM

whose vision of of Nekhorvich fades.  Still thinking of Nekhorvich he

continues to stare at the gun for another moment and before he can fire:

INT - SHEEP FARM IMF SAFEHOUSE

The bomb's LED readout shows 6, 5, 4, 3, 2, 1.. As it reaches 0

a small light on the bomb suddenly stops its incessant blinking.

EXT - VAN

explodes.  Saw horses and dirt fly.

INT - GLASS OBSERVATION ROOM - ETHAN

looks up just in time to see Ambrose and team arrive at the far

end of the lab.  They immediately open fire, shattering the

room's walls and the glass injection gun chamber.  As the

injection gun begins falling to the lab floor below, one of

Ambrose's team runs to grab it, but before he can reach it he is

shot by Ethan, who's falling to the floor below.

As Ethan hits and dives for cover, Ulrich goes for the gun

Ethan shoots Ulrich in the leg.  Ulrich hops back in pain.

Ethan's crouching on the ground protected behind a series of

vertical metal sheets.

Ethan moves to pick up the injection gun which lies in the

shattered glass on the floor.  Ambrose, Wallis, and a couple of

other Ambrose team members fire, kicking up broken glass.  Ethan

backs off.

The two spot one another in a mirror on the far wall of the hot

zone..

Ethan has been using this exchange to ease a fresh seventeen

round clip into his weapon and he punctuates this last with a

spray of gunfire, attempting to cover his own effort to the reach

the injection gun.  The return fire nearly hits the injection

gun, kicking up glass and dust and making it move around on the

floor.

Everybody's regained cover but the injection gun remains out of

everybody's reach.

Nyah walks out into view on her own.  Ethan sees her reflection in

the mirror.  Enraged, but trying to control it.

A pregnant pause.

WITH LUTHER (EXT. BIOCYTE)

a mess amid the rubble of the construction van.

ETHAN

CLOSE - NYAH

listening.

Ambrose cocks his weapon.

Finger on the injection trigger, she rises and turns the barrel

on her arm, firing.  The sound of the air pressure pushing the

virus into her is unmistakable, as is the circle of tiny puncture

wounds on her skin.  Nyah moves in front of Ethan, covering him,

as she turns to face Ambrose.

ETHAN

shocked by Nyah's gesture but as she addresses Ambrose he

resets the 'Countdown' on his chronometer to twenty hours.  As

it drops into the nineteen:

She's been laughing away with Ethan:

CLOSE - ETHAN'S HANDS

fingers press a red button on a tiny detonator.  There's a bright

heat flash from the hot zone and an explosion of gas and water --

the plastique killing any airborne virus.

Ethan uses the diversion to grab Nyah and run with her to the far

side of the lab, behind a stock of horizontal cylinders.

INT - LAB

Ambrose and team recover from the explosion and begin firing on

the tanks protecting Ethan and Nyah, surrounding the two with

fire and jets of released steam.

INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH

behind the stack of tanks.  Ethan launches an explosive down a

short hallway, blowing a hole in the building's exterior wall.

INT - ENTRANCES TO THE LAB

A group of Biocyte security guards enter from behind Ambrose and

team and catch them off-guard.  All hell breaks loose.

INT - LAB - ETHAN AND NYAH

This hits Ethan with the force of a blow.

She puts Ethan's gun to her forehead.

THE HAMMER

pulls back.

CLOSE - ETHAN

He can't fire, lower the hammer.

Ethan runs from the cover of the tanks toward the exploded wall

once in the open, he exchanges direct gunfire with Ambrose's

team, wounding a couple men.  He reaches the wall and dives thru,

camera with him as he drops 25 stories, the sound of gunfire in

the air all around him.

Less than a hundred feet from the ground a small dark chute

deploys and Ethan is lost from view beneath it.

PANNING SHOT - PAINTINGS (INT. CULTURAL ARTIFACT CENTER)

of Aborigine paintings, eerie patterns made of man and nature

phantasmagorical, like the patterns that form under the eyelids

shortly before sleep.  B.G. the haunting notes of didgeridoo

insure they're not being overheard.

Swanbeck breaks off and turns to a somewhat battered and battle

weary Ethan:

Ethan glances at his chronometer.  Swanbeck sees it.

Ethan nods.

Ethan's staring at Swanbeck.

As the eerie wail of the didgeridoo seems to mount in volume and

intensity, the overcast sky filtering into the loft seems

particularly oppressive.  Ethan's up against it and he knows it.

A VIEW OF SYDNEY

from harbors to skyline in all its sunlight splendor.

Nyah sits for a moment, looking steadily at Ambrose.  Ambrose pats

the cannister he's carrying.

Ambrose slaps her.  With scarcely a flicker of hesitation she

slaps him back.

It doesn't.  Full of pain and rage, he gets out of the car.

A nameless guard from Michael's car idling nearby gets into the

back seat with Nyah.  Ambrose shuts the car door in Nyah's face,

gets in Michael's car takes off.

EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - BLUFF

Luther drops a tiny part into his computer board and, as he tries

to fish it out with the aid of a magnifying glass:

EXT - BEAR ISLAND CAR PARK

McCloy's black limousine is in the car park.

INT - TUNNEL - BEAR ISLAND

Barrels of toxic materials line the walls, as an armed guard

patrols the corridor, leading into the main chamber, where we

follow McCloy into

INT - SLABHOUSE

McCloy enters and begins pacing.

EXT - MOTORCYCLE AND LINE OF VEHICLES (DAY)

speed along an isolated road in close formation before turning

onto a side road, revealed as leading to a bridge across a small

strip of water to a small island.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND - LANDWARD SIDE (DAY)

As the cycles and vehicles cross the bridge and approach the

front gate, the camera swings around the side of the island

establishing the geography and the six cannon emplacements

before coming to a stop on

EXT - BEAR ISLAND - SEAWARD CLIFF - ETHAN

scaling the seaward side of the island with minimal gear

EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - BLUFF

resting like a giant locust, half hidden by a cluster of trees on

the bluff overlooking Bear Island.

Billy's at the controls, with binoculars, maintaining

surveillance of the island and environs.

In the back, Luther is at Work on his GPS computer.

EXT - CLIFF/VIEW OF TUNNEL

Ethan climbs the side of the cliff.

Ethan reaches the clifftop and sees armed guards patrolling.

He's over the top and moves swiftly to cover.

Ethan surprises and kills a perimeter guard, then runs to a

length of grating and lifts one of the panels.

Ethan climbs down through the grating in the roof of the tunnel.

Using a bar to swing down, he breaks a second guard's neck and

drops to the floor.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND - ENTRANCE (DAY)

Ambrose and team drive through the entry gate -- passing its

BIOCYTE PHARMACEUTICALS sign and various no-nonsense warnings of

'No Trespassing,' etc. -- before Biocyte security guards close it

behind them.

INT - TUNNEL - NEAR THE GRATING

Ethan begins heading down the tunnel.

INT - SLABHOUSE BUILDING

Ambrose and team enter, where McCloy and his CHEMIST and

ACCOUNTANT are waiting.  As Stamp stands back, observing, and

Wallis sets up a laptop, Ambrose walks up to a refectory-like

table and stands opposite McCloy.  Ambrose reaches into his coat

and puts two cannisters on the table in front of McCloy.  McCloy's

chemist picks up the cannisters and inserts them into two

chambers connected to his microscope.

An insert of the microscope plate shows the two samples, as

The chemist presses a button on the chamber and there's a heat

flash.  The chamber red light moves to green, and there's a

mechanical voice: 'Substance destroyed.'

The Kev cannister is out on the table.

Ambrose doesn't respond.

Ambrose picks up a mobile phone and dials.

INT - TUNNEL - CAVITY IN THE WALL

As he moves along the tunnel, Ethan suddenly flattens himself

against a wall as he receives a transmission from Luther.

EXT - HELICOPTER - BLUFF

INT - TUNNEL - CAVITY IN THE WALL

Ethan hears something and ducks into a nearby cavity in the

tunnel wall.  As a guard approaches, Ethan steps out of the

cavity and knocks the guard out, then throws him into the

opposite wall.

Back to the matter at hand, Ethan completes the move on the

guard and knocks him out.

INT - SLABHOUSE

McCloy is stunned.

INT - TUNNEL - OPEN AREA - ETHAN'S FEET

stealthily approach a couple dozen jittery pigeons, cooing

and pecking.  The intensity of their noise-making increases

as Ethan reaches them.

INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE OF THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS

Hearing the disruption of the pigeons, one of Ambrose's

guards leaves his post at the double doors and head the

tunnel toward the birds to investigate.

INT - TUNNEL - OPEN AREA

Ambrose's guard draws his gun and continues approaching the

pigeons.  Before the guard can see him, Ethan runs forward, and

sends the pigeons into scattered flight, blinding the guard.

Ethan jumps into a back flip and double kicks -- first knocking

away the guard's gun and then knocking him out and flat on his

back.  Ethan continues his flip and lands right back on his feet.

INT - SLABHOUSE

INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS

Ethan pulls a can of explosive material form his pack.  He

rolls it towards the double doors, and it stops just before

reaching them.  Then, pointing his gun to the ceiling, he

fires into the air.

INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE

hears a noise and looks to Stamp, who heard it as well.

Stamp nods to two guards to check it out.  They head across

the room to the double doors.

INT - TUNNEL - OUTSIDE THE SLABHOUSE ROOM DOORS - ETHAN

waits for the right moment before raising his and firing

at the can of explosives.  Just as it ignites, the guards

open the doors and are blown back by force of the explosion.

INT - SLABHOUSE ROOM - AMBROSE

reacts and turns toward the explosion.  Amidst the flames and

debris, a single white dove comes flying into the room.  And

beyond it, Ambrose can see Ethan Hunt in silhouette walking

slowly past the doorway.

Orders are shouted, and guards, along with Stamp, hotfoot it down

the tunnel-corridor in the direction of the explosion.

INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS

run down the tunnel.  The guards move commando-style, directed

by Stamp's hand signals.

INT - SLABHOUSE - MCCLOY AND AMBROSE

Ambrose loads his gun and drags the tip of the barrel along the

table.

McCloy pauses only a moment before nodding to his accountant.

The accountant begins working on his laptop.

INT - TUNNEL - STAMP AND GUARDS

pass a couple of doorways.  A pigeon flies past Stamp's face and

he stops.  As he turn, Ethan Lowers himself from a hiding place

in the ceiling.  Stamp and Ethan pull their guns on one another.

They're in a face-off until they both agree to drop their guns,

but Stamp catches his in mid-air and points it back at Ethan.

As Ethan raises his hands, he pulls the pin on a grenade and then

kicks it between Stamp's legs.  The handle flies off:  It's live.

When Stamp looks down in surprise at the grenade, Ethan kicks out

his gun.

Trying to escape the grenade, Stamp smashes into Ethan and seems

to have hit him in the jaw.  Both hit the ground as the grenade

explodes, with Stamp appearing to have the upper hand.

INT - SLABHOUSE

As everyone waits for the transfer to complete, the grenade

explodes out in the tunnel.  McCloy and his accountant freeze

with alarm as a sprinkling of dust settles on the room.

INT - HELICOPTER - BILLY AND LUTHER

Luther has the GPS computer starting to access the satellite.

INT - SLABHOUSE - WALLIS

checking his computer screen, which shows the transfer has

finished successfully.

Stamp drags Ethan in, arms pinned with heavy tape.  Stamp

Ethan look grimy as sandbags after a busy day of tunneling.

Ambrose rises to examine his prize.

Ambrose walks behind Ethan and kicks his knees out from under

him.  Ethan falls to the floor.

INT - HELICOPTER - BILLY AND LUTHER

Luther hears nothing in response but while noise.  He looks to

Billy and indicates there's no answer.

EXT - HELICOPTER (DAY)

the rotor blades turn over.

INT - SLABHOUSE BUILDING (DAY)

Ethan appears as if he wants to respond, but can't.  Ambrose

kicks him again.

Ambrose has picked up a pair of Berettas, and is proceeding to

load both full seventeen round clips.

Ambrose favors McCloy with a glance of genial exacerbation.

FULL SHOT - HELICOPTER (DAY)

rising off the golf green, and banking toward the island.

INT - SLABHOUSE (DAY)

Ambrose standing before Hunt with a pair of fully loaded

Berettas.  The sound of the helicopter grows.

Ethan indeed makes some considerable effort to speak but can only

manage a few guttural, progressively desperate sounds which

continue as:

With that Ambrose empties thirty four rounds from the two

Berettas into Ethan whose body jerks crazily on the floor.

McCloy nearly faints, and Ambrose laughs at his squeamishness

until something on Ethan's body catches his eye: the top of the

little finger on the right hand is bleeding.  Ambrose grabs

Ethan's face, and rips off a latex mask: revealing Stamp, eyes

wide open and thoroughly lifeless.  His jaw, under the mask had

been taped carefully close with the same heavy tape Ethan has

used to mount the drain-pipe shotgun on the tunnel wall.

He looks around, but Stamp is gone.  So is the cannister and

kevlar vest that had been on the table moments before.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND

Ethan's on the motorcycle, heading toward the gates, which a pair

of security guards are frantically trying to close.

Billy and Luther in the copter are over the island, and bank so

Luther can fire a grenade launcher and blow the back of Ambrose's

boat.

The guards close the gate, Ethan runs the motorcycle up the

hillock and jumps the gate, over onto the bridge.  Ambrose follows

in the SUV, crashing thru the gate.

They race across the bridge and the road, onto the huge

greensward opposite to and similar in shape to Bare Island.

There, with the helicopter hovering, Ambrose manages to corner

Ethan and after they expend whatever ammunition their weapons

hold, they move into each other bare handed and engage in

ferocious, no-holds-barred combat, the helicopter hovering low

enough to keep away whatever's left of Ambrose's henchmen, the

chopper's downdraft hitting them and flattening the grass around

them.  Ethan prevails.

A SPECTACULAR VIEW OF SYDNEY

on bluffs overlooking the city.  Camera moves slowly to the top

of the bluff.

EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER (DAY)

With Billy flying and Luther at the door, machine gun in

hand, the copter nears the Bare Island gun pit and Ethan.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND GUN PIT - ETHAN

runs into the central 'hole' area, guns in both hands and

wearing the kevlar vest.  He runs toward the walled edge of

the enclosure and jumps.  As he pulls himself up the top of

the wall, he sees the IMF helicopter approaching.

A gunman appears from the tunnel entrance and opens fire, the

bullets exploding into the wall around Ethan, who jumps out

of the way to avoid them.

EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER

is under fire as well, bullets spraying the windshield,

driving Luther back inside and causing Billy to turn the

chopper around.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND GUN PIT - ETHAN

who rolls and returns fire at the gunman.  Ethan first hits

the gunman in the leg, and then shoots and explodes the

canisters behind the gunman, killing him.

BEAR ISLAND HILL - MOTORCYCLE

bearing down on him as he stands up.  Ethan just manages to

dive out of its path before a second motorcycle comes up over

the hill.  Ethan flips backwards and fires his pistol,

shooting the second cyclist off his bike.

The motorcycle flies over Ethan, who runs after it and jumps

on, revving the throttle and taking off.

BEAR ISLAND - PARKING AREA - AMBROSE

deploys some of his men via walkie-talkie while others

scramble into their cars.

BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE

A Gold Falcon with several of Ambrose's men inside enters the

bridge from the mainland and speeds toward the island.

EXT - BEAR ISLAND COMPLEX

Ambrose's men exit the complex and get into their cars.

BEAR ISLAND HILL - ETHAN

crests a hill aboard the cycle, the IMF chopper in b.g.

BEAR ISLAND ROADWAY

Michael's SUV and Wallis' sedan speed along as a gunman from the

SUV fires on Ethan up the hill, spraying bullets around him.

BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE - GOLD FALCON

approaches the island.  Luther fires his grenade launcher.  It

hits the Falcon's trunk, lifting its back wheel off the ground,

but the Falcon keeps coming, its trunk ablaze.  Luther reloads as

a gunman leans out the window, firing up at Ethan on the hill.

BEAR ISLAND HILL - ETHAN

lays on the cycle's throttle, accelerates down the hill and

propels the bike into the air and off the island, just as

EXT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

again fires his grenade launcher, this time at the front of the

BEAR ISLAND BRIDGE - GOLD FALCON

on the bridge.  The grenade explodes at the front of the car

and hurls the Falcon into the air and off the bridge.

BEAR ISLAND - HILL/BRIDGE - ETHAN

is in mid-air on the cycle, heading down toward the bridge.  Just

as he lands, the Gold Falcon flies off the bridge, and Ethan

speeds through the flames and off onto the mainland.

BEAR ISLAND - BRIDGE

Michael's SUV arrives and tears through the gate and flames,

followed by Wallis' sedan and then Ambrose, riding a motorcycle.

ROAD LEADING FROM BRIDGE - ETHAN

races up the road to find a white Falcon approaching.

The IMF chopper arrives and gunfire's exchanged.  Luther takes a

hit in the shoulder and drops his gun as the chopper banks away.

INT - HELICOPTER - LUTHER

Luther grips his shoulder in pain and falls back into his seat,

jarring the GPS computer.  It responds by beeping and coming to

life.  Nyah's yellow dot pops up on the screen.

EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN

INT - IMF HELICOPTER

Luther bands his shoulder wound and monitors his GPS laptop.

EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN

slightly slows the bike to concentrate over the static.

Ethan pulls out and throws away the earpiece.

INT - IMF HELICOPTER

EXT - ROADWAY

Ethan heads downhill as the SUV approaches on an adjacent road.

He pulls out in front of it, immediately drawing fire.  Without

slowing, Ethan drops to the side his cycle for cover.

INT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

watches the GPS laptop as the chopper speeds over Sydney.

EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN AND WALLIS' SEDAN

Wallis' sedan appears from an adjoining road and pulls in behind

Ethan, who climbs back aboard his cycle.  Cut off, the SUV turns

onto a side road to intercept Ethan.

Before an intersection, Ethan both revs and brakes, spinning the

bike and creating a smoke screen.  Wallis' car enters the smoke.

Wallis breaks hard, but not hard enough:  he stops just in the

path of an oncoming 18-wheeler.  His car's demolished.

EXT - ROADWAY - ETHAN AND SUV

Ethan pulls out of the smoke as the SUV bursts out of the scrub

behind him, striking the rear of the cycle.  Ethan puts his bike

into a spin and pulls his gun, ending up alongside the SUV

passenger window.  He fires through the window, shooting both

Michael and the bodyguard.

The SUV veers off, crashing into a line of parked cars.  It hits

the first car and flips up and over, landing upside down on

several more parked cars.  Ethan speeds off on his smoking cycle.

Ambrose arrives and then takes a side road.

INT - IMF HELICOPTER - LUTHER

working on his GPS laptop.  The range -- ie, the distance from

the moving copter to the yellow dot, Nyah, on the edge of the

screen -- is reduced to about two kilometers.

Luther looks up from the screen to see the bluff of North Head at

the entrance to Sydney's harbor.

EXT - THREE-LINED ROADWAY - ETHAN

tearing down the road, when suddenly from a side trail Ambrose

pulls out behind him and begins firing.  Ethan weaves to avoid

Ambrose's fire and passes a car, pulling in front of it for

cover.  The car skids, forcing Ambrose to veer around it.

FROM COPTER TO GROUND (MOVING)

rapidly approaching the North Head bluff.

HIGH ANGLE - NORTH HEAD

moving up behind Nyah who is walking purposefully to the edge of

the bluff and a precipitous drop to rocks and surf a hundred and

fifty feet below.

Camera drops to Nyah's shoulder level and moves with her to the

bluff's edge.  As she's just a few steps away from stepping

off, there's a roar and the helicopter rises into the shot,

before her wild-eyed Billy gesturing, 'Stop!  Stop!' to Nyah.

EXT - ROADWAY

Ethan passes narrowly between a car and oncoming truck.  Ambrose

follows as soon as the truck clears.  Ethan fires backward using

his side-view mirror to aim, exploding Ambrose's windscreen.

Ambrose skids until his wheel clips a rock, knocking him upright.

Ethan turns into a side road and speeds through open scrub.  Back

on the main road, Ambrose roars off to intercept Ethan.

EXT - CLIFFTOP - ROCK LEDGE

On a clifftop clearing, Ethan races along as Ambrose moves to cut

him off.  They head toward one another.

EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING

Ethan and Ambrose round a bend and face one another.  Without

hesitating, they charge towards each other.  As they near one

another, each leaps forward and off his bike, and they collide

hard in mid-air.  They fall to the ground fighting as their bikes

skid and Ethan's explodes, raining debris upon them.

Ethan and Ambrose rush towards one another.  Ethan flips Ambrose

to the ground.  Ambrose pulls a gun from his ankle holster.  As

Ethan knocks it away, he loses his own gun and they both fall off

a 30-foot cliff.

INT - IMF HELICOPTER

at top speed over Sydney.  Nyah appears weak and shivers.

EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING - FIGHT

Ethan and Ambrose rise from the fall.  Ethan jumps up and sweeps

Ambrose, dropping him to the ground.  Ethan begins strangling

Ambrose but gets knocked off, and when they both stand, Ambrose

gets Ethan in a choke hold.

Ambrose hits him and grabs a rock and hits Ethan in the

midsection and the face.  Ethan kicks it out of his hand and

connects with several punches, knocking Ambrose to the ground.

Kneeling, Ambrose pulls a knife from a boot holster and cuts

Ethan across the back and face.  Ambrose dives on Ethan and the

knife is poised above Ethan's eye before Ethan grabs the knife

and clears, holding it out toward Ambrose.

Ambrose swings again and misses, and Ethan delivers a series of

kicks, leaving Ambrose stunned and barely standing.  Ethan steps

back, and with a running start, strikes Ambrose with a leaping

kick that drops him to the ground and knock the knife out of his

hand.

EXT/INT - IMF HELICOPTER - CLIFFTOP

As they approach in the distance, Billy, Luther and Nyah finally

gain sight of Ethan in hand-to-hand combat.

EXT - CLIFFTOP - CLEARING - FIGHT

Ethan turns and walks away from Ambrose toward the cliff edge.

The copter lands and Luther runs toward Ethan but pulls up,

looking over Ethan's shoulder.  Ambrose has a gun aimed at

Ethan's back.

Near Hunt's feet is his own gun, obscured from Ambrose's view by

dust from the copter.  Ethan tosses the canister to Luther and

then kicks his gun up out of the dirt and into the air.  He

catches it, drops down and fires, killing Ambrose.

EXT/ INT - HELICOPTER ON CLIFFTOP

Ethan reaches Nyah at the copter.  Inches apart, they can only

stare silently at one another.

INT - CULTURAL MUSEUM

Didgeridoo music.  A child admires a painting.  Swanbeck and Ethan

face one another.  A long, long pause.  For a moment it appears as

if Swanbeck has lost awareness of Ethan's presence.

Ethan doesn't respond.

Ethan and Swanbeck exchange one final, knowing glance.

EXT - SYDNEY (DAY)

Ethan emerges to a very crowded street.  Billy and Luther are

waiting.  Both look to Ethan.

And Billy's gone.  Ethan and Luther remain alone, both reluctant

to say anything, both reluctant to leave.

One quick bear hug, then:

And Luther's off.  Ethan looks after him, a bit wistfully.  Then,

curiously tentative he moves off into the crowd.  After a half-

dozen steps, something catches his eyes.  He stops.

One quick bear hug, then:

NYAH

is inches from him.  Without batting an eye.

She wraps her arms around him and kisses him with considerable

conviction.

He kisses her with a conviction that is more than a match for

hers.

Looks around at the swirling crowd:

And in a moment they've vanished from the frame and into the

crowd.  Camera begins to pull back, the bustling crowd ever

filling the frame - and in the distance, perhaps, just a splash

of a bouquet of flowers can be seen, appearing to bounce along on

its own, the rising beat of the MI theme:

BEGIN CREDITS:  IMF II - CHIMERA

