FADE IN:

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

A gray, impenetrable wall of fog. From somewhere comes the

FAINT SOUND of a LITTLE GIRL'S VOICE, singing, slow tempo,

almost under her breath.

Suddenly a massive SHIP emerges from the grey, the Winged

Victory maidenhead looming. It's a British dreadnought,

the H.M.S. Dauntless. Formidable, frightening, twenty-five

gun ports on a side, and rail guns to boot.

EXT. H.M.S. DAUNTLESS - FORECASTLE - DAY

ELIZABETH SWANN, strawberry blond hair, stands at the bow

railing, gazing at the seas, still singing --

JOSHAMEE GIBBS, who was born old, skin a dark leather,

clutches her shoulder, startling her.

Elizabeth stares wide-eyed at him.

NORRINGTON, a dashing young man, Royal Navy to the core,

glares sternly at Gibbs. Standing besides him is GOVERNOR

WEATHERBY SWAN, a man of obvious high station, brass

buttons on his thick blue jacket. He is Elizabeth's

father.

He returns to his deck-swabbing duties, surreptitiously

takes a quick swig from flask.

Elizabeth doesn't know what 'a short drop and a sudden

stop' means. Gibbs helpfully mimes: a man being hung.

Chastised, she turns away, to look out over the bow rail.

The fog still hems in the ship; very little of the sea is

visible --

-- but suddenly, a FIGURE comes into view. A young boy,

WILL TURNER, floating on his back in the otherwise empty

water. There is nothing to show where he came from, or how

he came to be there.

Norrington and Swann spot him --

Quick movement and activity on the deck. Sailors use a

boathook to snag the boy he the passes. Norrington and

Swann haul him aboard, and lay him on the deck. Elizabeth

sidles in for a closer look.

Attention is turned away from the boy --

The sea is no longer empty. WRECKAGE from a ship litters

the water... along with the bodies of its crew. What is

left of the ship's hull BURNS, a ragged British flag

hanging limply from the stern.

The H.M.S. Dauntless slips silently through it all.   The

scene calls for hushed voices.

They lift the boy. Swann pulls Elizabeth away from the

rail, away from the hideous scene in the water.

Elizabeth nods gravely. Swann hurries away to help unstow

the longboat. The sailors lay the boy gently on the poop

deck, behind the wheel, then hurry off. Elizabeth kneels

down besides the boy.

His good looks are not lost on her. She reaches out,

gently brushes the blond hair from his eyes --

Suddenly, he grabs her wrist, awake now. Elizabeth is

startled, but their eyes lock. She takes his hand in hers.

He clutches her hands, then slips back into

unconsciousness.

His movement has opened the collar of his shirt; Elizabeth

sees he wears a chain around his neck. She tugs it free,

revealing--

A GOLD MEDALLION.   One side is blank.   She turns it over --

A SKULL gazes up at her. Vaguely Aztec in design, but to

her eyes, it means one thing only:

She glances back at the crew.   Sees Norrington, giving

orders, moving toward her.

She looks back at Will -- comes to a quick decision. Takes

the medallion from around his neck. Hides it under her

coat.

Norrington arrives.

Norrington hurries off. Elizabeth steals away to the stern

of the ship. Examines her prize -- the gold medallion. A

wisp of wind, and she looks up --

Out over the sea, moving through the fog, silent as a

ghost, is a large sailing ship, a schooner --

It has BLACK SAILS.

Elizabeth stares, too frightened to move, or cry out.

The ship is obscured by the fog it as it passes -- but not

the mizzen-top ... and there hangs the frightening skull

and crossbones of the Jolly Roger.

Elizabeth looks from it to the medallion -- the skull on

the flag is the same as the one on the medallion.

Fog surrounds and closes in on the black ship -- except for

the black flag. As Elizabeth watches, the skull appears to

TURN and GRIN at her --

Elizabeth shuts her eyes tight --

INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM

-- and then snap open again, startled wide with fear.

But this is no longer twelve-year-old Elizabeth standing on

the stern of the Dauntless; this is twenty-year-old

Elizabeth, lying in bed in the dark.

She remains motionless (were the images we just saw a

nightmare, or a jumbled childhood memory?)

Elizabeth slowly looks as far out the corner of her eyes as

possible without moving. Might there be someone in the

room with her, looming over her?

She turns, ready for anything.   She is alone.

Elizabeth sits up, turns up the flame on an oil lamp

besides the canopied bed. She carries the lamp across the

room to a dressing table, sits down.

She pulls one of the small drawers all the way out, reaches

into a space beneath it and removes --

The MEDALLION. She has kept it all this time. It has not

lost its luster -- or its sense of menace. She gazes at it

as she absently returns the draw to its place --

A BOOMING knock on the door;    Elizabeth jumps up, startled

knocking over her chair.

She puts the medallion on, throws on a dressing gown as

Swann enters, carrying a large box. A uniformed maid,

ESTRELLA, follows.

Estrella pulls back the heavy curtains, revealing:

Beneath a blue sky lies the bucolic town of PORT ROYAL,

built on a natural harbor. On a bluff at the mouth of the

harbor stands FORT CHARLES, its stone parapets lined with

cannon.

He opens the boxes, and displays for her a gorgeous velvet

dress. She lets out an admiring gasp.

Elizabeth happily takes it, disappears behind a screened-

off dressing area. Estrella follows, carrying the box.

Elizabeth peeks around the screen.

Behind the screen, Elizabeth GASPS.

ON ELIZABETH -- She holds her hair and      the medallion (still

around her neck) out of the way as the      maid cinches her

into a corset over her slip. Estrella       has her foot in

Elizabeth's back as she pulls the laces      tight.

Estrella is finished.   Elizabeth takes a breath -- and

winces.

A butler appears in the doorway of the room.

INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - FOYER - DAY

The caller, dressed in rough clothing, stands in the foyer,

looking very out of place, and knowing it. He holds a long

presentation case. He polishes the toes of his boots on

the back of his calves, but it doesn't help.

The caller turns -- it is WILL TURNER. Handsome, with a

watchful demeanor that gives him weight beyond his years.

Swann hurries to him, opens the case. Inside is a

beautiful dress sword and scabbard. Swann takes it out

reverently.

He takes the sword from Swann, and balances it on one

finger at the point where the blade meets the guard.

Will's face falls. Clearly, the work is his, and he is

proud of it. With practiced ease, he flips the sword

around, catches it by the hilt and returns it to the case.

He stops speaking abruptly, staring past Swann -

Elizabeth stands on the stairs. Granted, the dress may be

painful to wear, but holy smokes!

Will tries to speak, but can't. He gives up, smiles to

himself, and simply nods emphatically.

Her hand goes to the chain around her throat (the medallion

is hidden in the bodice of her dress).

Elizabeth is disappointed and a little hurt by his

response.

Swann takes the case from Will, opens the door for

Elizabeth.

Elizabeth straightens her back, gathers her skirts and

strides past Will.

EXT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - DAY

Swann follows Elizabeth out the door.

He watches as she is helped aboard a carriage by the

driver.

IN THE CARRIAGE: Swann glowers at his daughter.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - HARBOR - DAY

The skeletal remains of four pirates, still clad in

buccaneer rags, hang from gallows erected on a rocky

promontory. There is a fifth, unoccupied gallows, bearing a

sign:

PIRATES - YE BE WARNED.

The top of a billowing sail passes regally in front of

them. On the landward face of the sail, apparently high in

the rigging, is a man for whom the term 'swashbuckling

rogue' was coined: Captain JACK SPARROW.

He gazes keen-eyed at the display as they pass. Raises a

tankard in salute. Suddenly, something below catches his

attention. He jumps from the rigging -

-- and that's when we see that his is ship is not an

imposing three-master, but just a small fishing dory with a

single sail, plowing through the water -- the Jolly Mon.

And it leaks. Which is why he has the tankard: to bail.

Jack steps back to the tiller, and using a single sheet to

control the sail, and the Jolly Mon comes around the

promontory, the whole of Port Royal laid out before him.

The huge British dreadnought, H.M.S. Dauntless dominates

the bay. But Jack's attention is on a different ship: the

H.M.S. Interceptor, a small sleek vessel with rail guns and

a mortar in the middle of the main deck. It is tied up at

the Navy landing, at the base of the cliffs below Fort

Charles.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - DOCKS - DAY

Smoothly and with no wasted movement, Jack hauls down the

sail, stows it, guides the dory alongside a dock. The

HARBORMASTER, a long ledger tucked under his arm, is there

to catch a line and help Jack tie up.

He starts up the dock, strapping on his sword belt; besides

the scabbard, it also carries a compass, pistol and small

powder horn. The Harbormaster cuts him off.

He tosses three shillings onto the ledger. The Harbormaster

considers, then shuts the ledger on the coins, steps aside.

Jack gives him a half-salute as he goes past. Looks across

the water toward the Interceptor -- and smiles. Above the

Interceptor, among the parapets of Fort Charles, a ceremony

is underway -

EXT. FORT CHARLES - DAY

With choreographed precision, Swann removes the sword and

scabbard from the presentation case, held by a uniformed

Navy man. He slides the sword into the scabbard, holds it

out vertically to Norrington, in full dress uniform.

Norrington grasps the scabbard above Swann's hand, and

Swann lets go. Norrington draws the sword, flourishes the

sword, and snaps the blade up in front of his face. Swann

steps forward, pins a medal to Norrington's jacket, steps

back.

Norrington nods, turns smartly and nods to his fellow

officers, turns again and nods to the audience -

dignitaries, merchants, plantation owners, their families.

Another flourish, and he returns the sword to its scabbard.

The silence is broken by loud APPLAUSE. Backslapping from

the Navy men.

In the audience, Elizabeth doesn't look so good, out

beneath the hot sun. She applauds briefly, then winces.

Discreetly tries to adjust the corset through the material

of the dress, then resumes clapping, trying to hide her

discomfort.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - NAVY DOCK - DAY

Two sailors on sentry duty, MURTOGG and MULLROY, take

advantage of what little shade there is on the dock. But

when Jack saunters up, they are immediately on alert.

Music drifts down from Fort Charles. Jack looks up, shields

his eyes.

Mullroy scoffs at the name.

But Jack's not there. Murtogg and Mullroy look around, spot

-

Jack standing at the wheel of the Interceptor, casually

examining the mechanism.

Jack looks over in exaggeratedly innocent surprise. The

sailors hurry toward the gangplank.

Jack spreads his hands in apology.

The sailors study him suspiciously.

Murtogg and Mullroy consider that point --

EXT. FORT CHARLES - DAY

Elizabeth, pale and perspiring, fans herself weakly,

oblivious to the music and chatter.

He extends his arm. She takes it. He walks her away from

the party, toward the parapet. A rather too long of a

silence as Norrington works up his courage.

Elizabeth frowns, unable to focus. Norrington mistakes her

expression as disapproval.

Elizabeth loses her balance, stumbles away from Norrington.

She reaches a hand out to the parapet to steady herself,

but it slides off -

-- and then she vanishes over the wall. Gone.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - NAVY DOCKS - DAY

Jack reacts, pushes Murtogg aside to see -

Elizabeth plummets from the top of the cliff. It seems to

take her a long time to reach the sea --

Elizabeth hits the water, narrowly missing the sharp rocks.

A wave breaks, and then she is washed out away from the

cliff, struggling feebly.

AT THE FORT, Norrington looks down --

NORRINGTON ELIZABETH!

He leaps to the top of the parapet, prepared to dive -- a

lieutenant, GILLETTE catches his arm.

Norrington shakes off his arm, looks down -- and realizes

Gillette is right. He jumps down and runs --

EXT. PORT ROYAL - NAVY DOCKS - DAY

Jack, Murtogg and Mullroy are still in shock from the

sight.

Murtogg shakes his head -- neither does he.

Above where Elizabeth struggles in the water. Norrington

and several other men pick their way down the cliffs. They

are too far away to get to her in time.

Jack scowls. He has no choice -- and it pisses him off.

He pulls a pistol from his sword belt, hands it to Murtogg;

then hands the belt to Mullroy.

And then he dives into the water, swims toward Elizabeth.

Elizabeth struggles to keep above water, gasping for air '-

then a swell rolls over her, and she is submerged -

UNDERWATER, Elizabeth drifts down, unconscious. The current

turns her, and the MEDALLION slips loose from her bodice.

The MEDALLION turns slowly, until the SKULL is fully

visible. A shaft of filtered sunlight hits it, and it

GLINTS -

EXT. PORT ROYAL - VARIOUS - DAY

FORT CHARLES: The British flag flies, blown from an

offshore breeze. Suddenly the wind dies, and the flag goes

limp.

ON THE DOCKS: Wood and metal fittings on lines bang against

masts. The wind dies, and there is silence.

ON THE EDGE OF TOWN: A CARIBE WOMAN feeds clucking

chickens, frowns when they all suddenly go quiet ...

IN THE VILLAGE: A weather vane moves slightly in the wind.

The wind stops, and all is still. And then ...

... the weather vane TURNS, and holds steady -- the wind

has picked up again, but now blows .from the sea toward the

land.

l)ON THE BEACH: an OLD SALT pulls a rope line, pauses.

Turns and gazes to the sky, frowning. The mangy hound at

his side starts BARKING incessantly -

ON THE DOCKS: The lines bang against the other sides of the

masts, the wind far stronger now.

FORT CHARLES: the British flag flies in the opposite

direction, snapping in the new onshore breeze.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - CLIFFSIDE - DAY

Norrington rushes down, intent on the climb. Beyond him,

past the rocky point, far out to sea, FOG gathers -

EXT. PORT ROYAL - OCEAN - DAY

UNDERWATER: the medallion hangs below Elizabeth's unmoving

form - - and then Jack is there. He wraps an arm around her

and makes for the surface.

ON THE SURFACE, Jack swims toward the dock, struggling. It

is .: far more difficult than it should be. He stops

stroking, and they submerge.

UNDERWATER: Jack realizes that   it is Elizabeth's heavy

velvet dress that is weighing   them down. He pulls at the

buttons on the back, and they   give way. He skins her out of

the dress, and kicks away from   it.

The dress falls like a cloud into darkness -

ON THE SURFACE: Jack swims with Elizabeth, much more

quickly.

AT THE DOCK, Murtogg and Mullroy are there to help haul

Elizabeth out of the water.

Jack climbs up, exhausted. Elizabeth is on her back;

Murtogg holds her arms above her head, pumping them.

Mullroy puts his cheek to her nose and mouth.

Murtogg looks down; it seems hopeless. Jack steps up,

drawing Murtogg's knife from its sheath.

He pushes past Mullroy, kneels over Elizabeth, raises the

knife -- Murtogg is shocked -

Jack slits the corset down the middle, yanks it away.

Elizabeth remains still. And then -- she coughs up water

and gasps, choking on her first full breath. Jack is

relieved.

Jack flips the knife and hands it hilt-first to Murtogg -

and that's when he spots -

The MEDALLION. Jack catches it up in his "hand.

Before Elizabeth can answer, the BLADE of a SWORD is at

Jack's THROAT -- Norrington's new ceremonial sword, in

fact, looking bright and sharp.

It looks bad -- Jack standing over Elizabeth, most of her

clothes gone. He gets to his feet. The rest of Elizabeth's

erstwhile rescuers reach the scene, including Swann.

He strips off his jacket, drapes it around her.

Norrington looks at Jack. Jack nods as best he can with a

blade beneath his chin. Norrington sheathes his sword, and

extends his hand.

Jack takes Norrington's hand gingerly. They shake -

-- and Norrington tightens his grip, yanks Jack's arm

toward him, then tears back the sleeve of Jack's shirt -

-- exposing a BRAND on Jack's inner wrist: a large 'P.'

The others react in shock, but the sailors are well-trained

--in an instant, half a dozen pistols are aimed at Jack. He

stands there, still holding the corset.

Norrington notices something else -- below the 'P' brand is

a tattoo: a small bird in flight across water.

Norrington looks out at the bay.

He holds out Jack's pistol and belt. Norrington takes the

pistol, examines it, notes the powder horn on Jack's belt.

Jack shrugs. Norrington unhooks the compass from the belt,

opens it. He frowns at the reading. Moves the compass this

way and that, keeping it parallel to the ground.

Jack looks away, a bit embarrassed. Norrington returns the

compass to the belt. Draws the sword half from the

scabbard.

He slides it back into the scabbard, hands it to Mullroy.

Gillette returns with shackles, approaches Jack.

Elizabeth steps forward. Swann's jacket slips off her. She

is unconcerned, but he is intent on putting it back on her.

Gillette snaps the manacles closed on Jack's wrists.

Now that Jack is safely chained, Norrington nods to his

men. All but one stow their weapons, and two step forward -

Lightning-quick, he snaps the   corset  around the hand and

wrist of the man holding the   pistol  and yanks. The pistol

sails into the water. Before   anyone  can react to that, Jack

has the manacle chain wrapped   around  Elizabeth's throat.

Pistols are drawn again, but now Elizabeth serves as a

shield. Norrington raises a cautioning hand to his men.

Norrington hesitates, balls his fists in frustration.

Mullroy hands the pistol and belt to Norrington. Norrington

holds them out to Jack.

Elizabeth is more angry than frightened.

ELIZABETH Miss Swann.

She takes the belt and pistol from Norrington -- Jack's

quicker than she is, and takes the pistol from her. He

jerks her around so she is facing him, belly to belly.

She figures out what he wants: put the belt on him.

Done. He turns her again, and then backs up until he bumps

against the cargo gantry.

He shoves Elizabeth away, grabs a rope and pulls free a

belaying pin -- a counterweight drops and Jack is lifted up

to the middle of the gantry, where he grabs a second rope -

Pistols fire -- and miss. Jack swings out, out, out, away

and around from the gantry.

Norrington has held his shot. With careful aim, he tracks

Jack's trajectory-

Jack drops from the rope even as Norrington FIRES. His shot

tears the rope -

-- as Jack plummets past one of the gantry's guy lines, he

snaps the length of manacle chain over the line and grabs

hold of the far loop -- slides down the line -

-- drops to the deck of a ship. He runs, leaping to another

ship, then out of sight -

Norrington's taken aback by her ire, and wisely hurries

away. Swann drapes his coat around Elizabeth.

Elizabeth shivers, finding suddenly that she is cold.

Glances out at the bay -

-- where a THICK FOG moves across the top of the water. She

takes the jacket.

But she accepts his comforting embrace.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - TOWN - ALLEY - DAY

The fog creeps through, casting an eerie twilight pall. An

armed search party moves along the street. They glance down

an alley-

On the far side is another search party. The men nod to

each other, continue on.

A moment, and then Jack drops from his hiding place beneath

the eaves of a building. He still wears the manacles.

Across the street is a shop with barn doors, a pass-thru

door set in the middle. Above is a sign with a black anvil.

INT. BLACKSMITH'S FORGE - DAY

Jack slips in through the door, takes a look around:

No windows. The forge is dark, lit   by lanterns. Work-in-

progress is scattered about: wagon   wheels, wrought iron

gates, pipes -- even a cannon with   a crack in it. But every

tool is in place; the workbench is   tidy and neat.

Jack is startled by a noise: MISTER BROWN, in a

blacksmith's apron, snores in the corner, cradling a

bottle. Jack gives him a hard poke. Another. Brown snorts,

turns away.

Satisfied, Jack sheathes his sword, takes a short-handled

sledge from its place on the wall. Moves to the glowing

coke furnace in the middle of the room.

Slowly... he holds his right hand over the furnace, the

chain down in the embers. The chain begins to GLOW. Jack

sweats, grimaces at the pain -

Moving quickly, he wraps the chain around the nose of an

anvil, brings the sledge down with a fast, hard stroke on

the glowing links. One SHATTERS. Jack drops the sledge,

plunges his manacled hand in a bucket of water. Steam

billows.

Jack pulls his hand out, flexes it. Blisters form beneath

the manacle -- but his hands are free.

The SOUND of the latch on the door -- Jack dives for cover.

Will enters the forge, shuts the door behind him. Spots the

drunken Mister Brown in the corner.

Something catches his eye: an empty peg on the wall. The

sledge lying beside the anvil.

He moves casually toward the sledge. Then grabs for it --

but the flat of a sword blade slaps his hand. Will jumps

back.

Jack stands there, sword leveled at Will. He backs Will up,

toward the door. Will glares at him.

Jack acknowledges it with a tip of his head ... then

frowns, regards Will.

Beside the door is a grindstone, a sword resting in

the honing guide. Before Jack can react, Will has it

in hand.

In response, Will assumes an en garde position. Jack

appraises him, unhappy to see Will knows what he's doing.

Jack attacks. The two men stand in one place, trading

feints, thrusts and parries with lightning speed, almost

impossible to follow. Will has no trouble matching Jack.

He takes a step around an imaginary circle. Will steps the

other way, maintaining his relationship to Jack.

They are now exactly opposite their initial positions.

Jack turns and heads for the door, now directly behind him.

Will registers angry surprise -- and then with a vicious

overhand motion, he throws his sword -

-- the sword buries itself into the door, just above the

latch, barely missing Jack. Jack registers it, then pulls

on the latch, but it won't move up -- the sword is in the

way.

Jack rattles the latch. Tugs on the sword a few times -- it

is really stuck in there. Jack mouths a curse, but when he

turns back to Will, he's smiling.

Eyes on Jack, Will simply picks up a new sword from an

anvil. Jack slumps in dismay -- but then leaps forward.

Will and Jack duel. Their blades flash and ring. Suddenly,

Jack swings the chain still manacled to his left hand at

Will's head. Will ducks it, comes up wide-eyed.

Then Jack's chain smashes across Will's sword, disarming

him.

Will quickly picks up another sword. Jack becomes aware

that the entire room is filled with bladed weapons: swords,

knives, boarding axes in various stages of completion.

A direct hit -- and Will coils even more tightly with

anger.

He explodes: kicks a rack, causing a sword to fall into his

hand; uses his foot to bring his dropped sword into the

air, catches it -- and attacks Jack, both blades flashing.

Jack parries with sword and chain. Jack's chain wraps

around Will's sword; Will twists the handle of his guard

through a link, and stabs the sword up into the ceiling -

So Jack's manacled left arm is now suspended from the

ceiling. Not good. He parries using one hand, twisting and

dodging around the furnace -

Jack compresses the bellows, blowing a SHOWER OF SPARKS

into Will's face. Jack grabs the chain, hoists himself up,

kicks with his feet, knocking Will back.

Jack uses his full weight, yanks the sword from the

ceiling. Hurls a wooden mallet at Will, then a second,

hitting Will on the wrist. Will drops his sword, falls

down, gets up -

Jack's pistol is aimed directly between Will's eyes.

Will steps back, directly in front of the back exit.

Glares, rubs his wrist gingerly.

Jack steps forward. Will steps back, fully blocking the

door.

Jack cocks the pistol. Will stares back. The stand-off

lasts for a long moment.

Jack uncocks the pistol. Will is surprised, reassesses Jack

-

Suddenly, Mister Brown SLAMS his bottle against Jack's

skull. Jack crumples to the ground.

The front and back doors smash open, and SAILORS fill the

room. Norrington pushes forward, sees Jack on the ground.

Jack groans. Norrington stands over him, smiles.

Norrington's men haul Jack away. Will watches them go.

Brown looks at his bottle -- broken.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - NIGHT

The thick fog blankets the entire bay now, and the town.

The only structure visible is Fort Charles, high on the

bluff, like a tall ship sailing a sea of grey.

Above the Fort is a clear black sky sprinkled with stars. A

waxing moon shines, giving both Fort and fog an eerie glow.

ANGLE - FORT CHARLES,

just below the stone parapets of the fort, visible briefly

deep in the fog, like a shark fin slicing through the

water: the TOPMAST of a ship, BLACK SAILS billowing. Flying

from the mast is a flag with white Aztec skull.

The Black Pearl has come to Port Royal.

INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A maid removes a bed warmer from the fireplace, slides it

between the sheets at the end of Elizabeth's bed.

The maid nods, exits. Elizabeth opens a book, begins

reading, toying absently with the medallion chain around

her neck.

The lamp flame begins to diminish. Elizabeth tries to turn

it up. No good. The flame goes out, and the room is black.

INT. BLACKSMITH'S FORGE - NIGHT

Will, shirtless, wearing a leather apron, heats an iron

ingot at the furnace, hammers it flat -- he stops.

His attention is drawn to the window. He opens the shutter

and peers out -- nothing but fog. Almost without noticing,

he reaches for a boarding axe hanging on the wall. Takes it

down; it has a satisfying weight in his hands.

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

CLOSE ON: A mutt of a dog, holding a ring of keys in his

mouth.

Three seedy-looking prisoners try to coax the dog to their

cell door. One holds a loop of rope; another waggles a

bone. The dog just sits and cocks its head.

In an adjoining cell, Jack lies on a pile of straw.

EXT. FORT CHARLES - PARAPETS - NIGHT

A noose hangs from a gallows in the courtyard. Norrington

and Swann walk along the far wall.

From the distance, there is a BOOM -

-- and then the WHISTLE of an incoming ball --

He tackles Swann as the wall of the parapet EXPLODES --

INT. CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

Jack sits up. There are more BOOMS -

He peers out through the bars of the window. The other

prisoners crowd around their window as well.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - HARBOR - NIGHT

The Black Pearl still cannot be seen -- but the fog lights

up around her with each boom of her guns. She's firing on

both sides now, hammering both the fort and the town.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - TOWN - NIGHT

Streets, buildings, docks and ships shatter and explode

beneath the onslaught. Villagers panic, run for cover,

dodge flying debris as best they can. If this is not hell

on earth, then it's about to be --

-- long boats emerge out of the fog, carrying ARMED

PIRATES. They swarm from the boats, striking down

,villagers indiscriminately and setting fires.

INT. BLACKSMITH'S FORGE - NIGHT

Will slips the boarding axe into his belt at the small of

his back. He puts a dirk in his belt, then a second and a

third. He picks up a second axe and a sword.

Will slides back the doors of the forge --

A woman runs past, chased by a ONE-ARMED PIRATE wearing a

yellow bandeau. Will backhands the axe square into his

chest, a deadly blow. Will heads out, up the street --

EXT. FORT CHARLES - PARAPETS - NIGHT

The moon is obscured by smoke rising from the burning

gallows and wooden roofs. Cannon fire continues to rain

down, but the fort's own cannons now return fire.

Swann turns to go -- but finds himself face-to-face with a

pirate -- KOEHLER, a handsome blond man with gold earrings.

Beyond Koehler, more pirates come up over the far wall.

Koehler grins and raises a cutlass -

-- Norrington's sword blocks Koehler's slash.

The battle is joined --

INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - ELIZABETH f S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth looks out a window at the scene below: even

through the fog, multiple fires are visible, and ships burn

in the harbor. Shouts and cries of pain. Cannon fire

ECHOES.

She notices movement directly below her window: two SHADOWY

FIGURES, approaching the house -- pirates. Elizabeth bolts

from her room--

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

She reaches the railing overlooking the foyer, and cries

out, just as the butler opens the door -- too late; there

is the BOOM of a gun, and the butler crumples.

Elizabeth ducks down in horror, peering through the

balusters. The pirates scan the foyer, searching. The

leader is PINTEL, a sallow-looking pirate with a bald head.

Suddenly Pintel looks up, and locks eyes with Elizabeth.

How could he know she was there?

The pirates rush for the stairs. Elizabeth scrambles back

into the nearest room--

INT. SITTING ROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth shuts the door, locks it, listens as the pirates

pound up the stairs --

Elizabeth jumps. Estrella is right behind her, terrified.

They whisper:

Elizabeth realizes she's right. There is the SLAM of a body

against the door.

Estrella nods. Another SLAM at the door -- it gives a bit -

-

Elizabeth shoves Estrella into the corner, between a tall

wardrobe and the wall. Dashes for the side door.

When the door smashes inward, it slams into the wardrobe,

and the maid cannot be seen. The pirates run in -- spot the

open side door, and run for it --

INT. ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Pintel is the first through, and gets the pan of the bed

warmer in the face for his trouble -- he staggers back,

holding his nose --

INT. SITIING ROOM - NIGHT

Estrella breaks cover, runs for the hall, unnoticed.

INT. ELIZABETH'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

-- Elizabeth swings the bed warmer at the second pirate,

but he catches it by the handle -- Elizabeth can't jerk it

free, so she wrenches it over -- the pan lid swings down,

BANGING the second pirate -- hot coals spill on his head,

sizzling.

Elizabeth dashes for the hallway stairs -

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY/FOYER - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

The pirates burst from the bedroom -- Pintel goes for the

stairs, but the second pirate vaults the handrail --

Estrella registers the butler's body, but continues out the

still-open front door at a dead run. Elizabeth follows --

The second pirate lands between Elizabeth and the front

door. His face is BURNED, his hair SMOLDERS -- he reaches -

-

Elizabeth pulls up short, runs the other way --

Pintel, on the stairs, grabs her by the hair -- Elizabeth

doesn't slow -- she spins, grabs Pintel's arm with both

hands and pulls him hard, belly-first, into the cap of the

newel post -- he lets go of her hair -- Elizabeth keeps

going

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Elizabeth slams the double doors shut, throws the bolts.

The interior shutters are closed over the windows. Above

the fireplace are two crossed swords.

Elizabeth climbs on the firebox; she grabs one of the

swords by the hilt and pulls -- but it won't come free.

Both swords are securely attached to the wall. Damn!

A SMASH from the doors -- the pirates are relentless -

On the table is a platter with fruit, cheese and bread.

Elizabeth grabs the knife from the platter -

Like any bread knife, it has a round point. Elizabeth jabs

it into her palm -- it's useless as a weapon. Double damn!

The blade of a boarding axe breaches the door -- the

pirates will be through soon -- Elizabeth looks around -

INT. FIRST FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

The doors give way; the pirates charge through -

INT. DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS - NIGHT

Empty. Elizabeth nowhere to be seen. Pintel and Smoldering

Pirate search, under the table, behind draperies.

Smoldering pirate gives him look -- he wants to hurt her

plenty. Pintel shakes his head: 'Don't worry, I'm lying.'

INT. DUMBWAITER - NIGHT

Elizabeth hides in the dumbwaiter box, wrapped around the

double pulley ropes that go through the center.

Elizabeth registers that -- she pulls out the medallion,

rubs

the gold with her thumb. This is their objective. Light

spills into the- box through gaps in the top as the door

above is slid open -- Elizabeth looks up through the gaps -

Pintel leers down at her.

Elizabeth works the ropes to lower  the box. Pintel pulls

the other way; he's stronger, and  the box rises. Elizabeth

tries to stop it -- wraps her left  forearm through the rope

and lets it jam against the top of  the box.

Elizabeth gasps at the pain, but the box stops. She saws at

the rope with the bread knife.

Smoldering pirate helps pull the rope, crushing Elizabeth's

forearm. Tears of pain on her face, she keeps sawing -

The rope parts, and the dumbwaiter box PLUMMETS -

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

From behind the door of the dumbwaiter comes a CRASH, and a

cloud of dust. The door slides open, and Elizabeth clambers

out. Her head is cut, she is streaked with dirt, and can

barely stand. She leans over the table, trying to recover.

The sound of running FOOTSTEPS gets louder ...

Elizabeth touches the chain of the medallion ... and a

desperate idea occurs to her.

The pirates burst through the door. Elizabeth backs away,

holds the bread knife out to ward them off. They come

around either side of the table, stalking her -

Pintel can't believe his ears.

He steps forward, dirk drawn -- Pintel stops him.

He looks to Elizabeth: 'right?' Elizabeth nods.

Smoldering Pirate concedes the point, sheaths his dirk. He

grabs Elizabeth roughly by the arm -

EXT. PORT ROYAL - STREET - NIGHT

Will races along, momentarily free of the pirates. He spots

the Governor's Mansion in the distance. There are FIGURES

moving away from it -- Elizabeth, forced by the two

pirates.

Will hurries forward -

Suddenly a PIRATE jumps out from the shadows, slashes; Will

defends himself. The pirate has one arm and wears a yellow

bandana. Will hesitates -- didn't he already kill this guy?

The hesitation is just enough for another PIRATE, swinging

a flaming torch, to SLAM Will in the head from behind. Will

crumples.

The pirate lights a second torch, hands it to One-arm; they

hoot with delight and head off, setting fires as they go.

On the ground, Will doesn't move.

INT. FORT CHARLES - CELL BLOCK - NIGHT

The wall of the cells EXPLODES inward. Jack pulls himself

out from under rubble. Moonlight spills in through the

gaping hole created by the cannon ball. Beyond it: freedom.

But it is centered on the other cell. The part of Jack's

cell that is gone is too small for a man to slip through.

He and the other two scramble through.

The three descend the rocks beyond, disappearing from view.

Jack is alone. Cannon fire continues, occasional hits

shaking the fort. The dog cowers under a long bench, key

ring still in his mouth. Jack sighs -- resigned, he picks

up the bone from the other cell, and tries coax the dog

forward.

boy. Come here, Spot. Rover. Fido?

To his surprise, the dog crawls out from under the bench.

Jack continues to coax him closer.

The key ring is nearly within Jack's reach -- suddenly, the

dog's attention goes to the door into the cell block. He

BRISTLES, GROWLS. He backs away from the door, whining.

The dog bolts, through the bars, into the cell, then out

through the breached wall -- taking the keys with him.

The door to the cell block bursts open. A pair of pirates

step in: KOEHLER and TWIGG.

He turns to go, but Koehler has spotted Jack.

The two laugh. Jack doesn't. He steps forward, close to the

bars. This puts him in a spill of moonlight. He is tight

with fury.

Koehler and Twigg don't like hearing that. Koehler lashes

out, grabs Jack by the throat through the bars. Jack

clutches the pirate's wrist, looks down -

Where they enter the moonlight, Koehler's wrists and hands

are skeletal.

Jack's eyes go wide -- he is holding a skeleton arm.

Koehler sneers, shoves Jack backwards, hard. Now out of the

moonlight, his hand is normal. Jack stares, realizing -

Koehler ushers Twigg toward the door. Looks back.

And then they're gone.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - NIGHT

Amid the thunder of cannon fire, a longboat slips through

the fog. Elizabeth sits in the prow. Columns of water from

cannon balls geyser up around the boat.

The fog parts. Elizabeth looks up to see --

The Black Pearl, a tall galleon, its black sails looming

high above her. At the bow is an ornately carved figurehead

of a beautiful woman, arm held high, a small bird taking

wing from her outstretched hand.

The longboat makes for a pair of lines dangling from a

winch.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - NIGHT

Lit by lanterns; no moon is visible beneath the fog. Smoke

hangs heavy above the deck.

Elizabeth's longboat is raised above the deck rail --

pirates spot her, and stare. One polite fellow steps

forward to offer his hand. She takes it and steps down. She

huddles, self-conscious in her nightgown and dressing robe.

ON THE POOP DECK -- an imposing FIGURE in silhouette stands

by the wheel, too far away to have heard Pintel's words.

But his head turns at the mention of his name.

The silhouetted figure moves toward the stairs. A cloud of

SMOKE obscures him -- and then, as if he skipped the

stairs, he strides out of the SMOKE on the main deck-

This is BARBOSSA. Despite the bright colors of clothing,

definitely not a man you'd want to meet in a dark alley --

or anywhere, for that matter.

Elizabeth, more terrified than ever, cannot look away from

his eyes. But she musters her courage -

The Bosun SLAPS her.

His wrist is grabbed -- painfully -- by Barbossa.

Barbossa releases him. Turns to Elizabeth, smiles -- it

shows both silver and gold teeth.

Barbossa is both impressed and amused.

Barbossa and the pirates laugh.

She quickly slips the medallion off, darts to the side

rail, dangles it over the side of the ship. The pirates go

quiet.

Elizabeth glares at him. She's getting nowhere.

She flips the medallion up, off her finger -

She catches it by the chain, smiles at him triumphantly.

Elizabeth hesitates, but she has no choice. She holds out

the medallion. He grabs it, clutches it in his fist like

hope.

Barbossa grins devilishly -- but then nods to the Bosun.

For the first time since the attack began, the BOOMING of

the guns ceases. Elizabeth is surprised -- and relieved.

The pirates hustle to follow orders. Barbossa turns away.

Barbossa wheels on her.

the code is more what you'd call guidelines than actual

rules.

(grins gold and silver)

Welcome aboard the Black Pearl, Miss Turner.

Elizabeth stares in speechless terror -

EXT. PORT ROYAL - HARBOR - PRE-DAWN

As the Black Pearl turns out to sea, Elizabeth is led back

along the deck to the captain's cabin.

The fog starts to dissipate, turning to a light mist;

through it, the Black Pearl makes for the scarlet glow of

dawn.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - STREET - PRE-DAWN

Will comes to, still where he fell, gets to his feet.

He takes in the devastation of Port Royal: the harbor is

dotted with burning and sunken ships; buildings are razed

and still smolder. The aftermath of hell on earth.

Will turns, and runs for the Governor's Mansion.

INT. GOVERNOR'S MANSION - MORNING

Will races past the smashed doors, into the foyer. Calls

out:

A terrible silence answers him. He spots an overturned

chair, fallen bookshelf -

INT. FORT CHARLES - NORRINGTON'S OFFICE - MORNING

Will bursts in, still armed with sword and boarding axe.

A group stares at him: Swann, Norrington, and Gillette

among others, gathered around a map. The map is so large it

drapes over the Governor's desk, the far end supported by a

chair.

Swann's worry has made him short-tempered.

Murtogg has remembered something. He ventures it warily:

Will slams the boarding axe into the desk, through the map.

Norrington is quick to react; he throws a strong arm across

Will's back, and guides him roughly to the door.

He opens the door, and then turns away. Will watches him

walk back to the desk. Will's face sets in resolve, and he

leaves.

INT. FORT CHARLES - JAIL CELLS - MORNING

Jack strains, trying to budge one of the bars. Even with

the damage from the cannon ball, it won't move. He hears

the sound of the door latch -

The door opens, and Will slips in. Looks around. Jack

lounges on the floor of his cell, apparently relaxed and

unconcerned. Will marches straight up to the bars.

Will slams his fist against the bars in frustration. Jack

is surprised at the outburst. Will thinks ... makes a

decision.

Jack watches Will as he speaks, and it dawns on him -- Will

is the spitting image of someone he's known in the past.

Will gives him a puzzled look.

Jack grins.

Will gives him a suspicious look. The deal seems too good.

Jack keeps his hand out, still smiling. Will shakes it.

Will looks around, figures out   what he needs. He makes a

chair his fulcrum, and levers   the long bench under the

door. Pushes down -- it's hard   work -- but the cell door

rises, and then falls forward,   CRASHING down on the bench

and chair.

Jack is impressed. He steps out of the cell.

Will heads for the door. Jack searches the desk, cupboards.

Jack finds his pistol, sword belt, and compass. Straps on

the belt, checks the shot in his pistol.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - DOCKS - MORNING

The Jolly Mon, four inches of water in the bottom, squats

low in the water, heeled to one side, creaking on its

lines.

Jack hops down into the boat. Prepares to make way.

Jack notices that Will is standing, frozen on the dock,

staring at the boat in dismay.

Will steels himself, steps into the boat as if its going to

capsize with the slightest movement. Jack hoists the sail.

He nods toward the H.M.S. Dauntless, looming in the harbor.

Will whiteknuckles the gunwales.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - MORNING

The Jolly Mon bobs its way across the bay, dwarfed against

the H.M.S. Dauntless. Will holds a stay line with iron

fists.

The Jolly Man nears the rudder of the much larger ship -

EXT. H. M. S. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - MORNING

There's been a breakdown in discipline; about a dozen Navy

sailors are gathered together on the main deck, playing

dice. Murtogg and Mullroy among them.

Suddenly, Jack and Will jump out, into the open -

brandishing pistols.

Jack gives him a look, shakes his head: don't do that.

The sailors all look   at them -- and then burst out

LAUGHING. They grin,   shake their heads. Jack stands there,

grinning with them --   but his gun is still level. The

Lieutenant, GILLETTE,   steps forward.

Jack moves his pistol across, points it at Gillette.

More guffaws from the crew. A couple sailors move forward,

hands on swords -- Gillette holds up a hand.

EXT. DAUNTLESS - STERN - MORNING

Sailors make their way down a rope ladder, crowd onto the

Jolly Mon. Will pushes hard against the windlass, to no

avail ... the anchor is too heavy for one man. Jack

notices.

Gillette shrugs, gestures to Murtogg and Mullroy. The three

men throw their weight into the windlass, and it turns.

Jack's pistol is on them the whole time.

The windless turns, bringing Mullroy into view.

The windless turns some more, and there's Gillette.

Another quarter turn -

EXT. DAUNTLESS - FORECASTLE - DAY

Jack and Will crank a capstan, raising the forward jib

sail. It luffs and billows out. The huge ship inches

forward slowly, pulled by just the one sail. Jack grins.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - DOCK - DAY

Norrington moves along, concentrating on a manifest.

Alongside him is governor Swann, who glances over -

Sees the tiny Jolly Mon headed toward them, riding low in

the water, overloaded with sailors. Beyond that, the

Dauntless sails -- albeit slowly -- for open waters.

Norrington glances out at the bay. Sure enough, the

Dauntless is on the move. Norrington takes a brass

telescope from his belt, opens it, trains it on --

The main deck. He picks out Will -

-- then spots Jack, at the wheel. Lowers the telescope.

EXT. H . M. S. DAUNTLESS - DAY

Out in the open sea, Jack leans on the wheel, relaxed; not

much sailing to do with a following wind. Will looks back -

He points: the sails of the Interceptor fill out, and the

ship cuts through the water toward them-

EXT. H.M.S. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

Norrington's smaller ship quickly comes alongside the

slowmoving Dauntless. Its decks appear empty. Grappling

hooks are thrown, and sailors draw the two ships together.

Norrington's men swarm across.

PULL BACK, away from the   Dauntless, and past the railing of

the Interceptor, where a   single SENTRY stands watch -- and

we find a soaked Jack and   Will as they climb up over the

side of the smaller ship,   unseen.

Jack tackles the Sentry from behind, covers hi1rmouth.

Jack removes his hand.

Jack lifts the man up, throws him overboard. Quickly unties

the ropes to the grappling hooks. Will cranks the capstan

bars, raising the foresail -

EXT. H . M. S. DAUNTLESS - DAY

Norrington emerges from a gangway -- and sees his other

ship moving away.

But the distance is already too great. One brave sailor

tries to swing across on a rope, Errol-Flynn style, but

falls short with a splash.

Jack waves, and shouts across the distance -

Norrington seethes, but his order to Gillette is measured:

Gillette looks surprised at the order -- but relays it.

The STEERSMAN turns the wheel. The Dauntless' course does

not change one whit.

The Steersman spins the wheel. It goes round and round,

with no signs of slowing.

The Interceptor dwindles with distance. Gillette watches it

go, with some degree of admiration.

Norrington reaches out, stops the spinning ship's wheel.

The Interceptor makes for the horizon line. A SLOW DISSOLVE

and with the time passage, the ship is gone; the sky turns

a deep twilight blue -

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - EVENING

-- with the fat white moon riding just above the horizon.

Suddenly, the edge of a black sail cuts into the

foreground, accompanied by the ROAR of the wind and the

SNAP of canvas -

INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - EVENING

Elizabeth stalks the cabin. Pintel enters, carrying a black

silk dress.

Angry, Elizabeth holds out her hand. Pintel's grin fades.

He exits, pouting. Elizabeth examines the dress -

INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - NIGHT

Barbossa enters, followed by PIRATES carrying trays of

food, wine, table setting, etc. Elizabeth stands at the

small table in the dress -- lovely.

The table is set. Elizabeth sits, cuts a tiny piece of

meat, eats it daintily.

Elizabeth drops the pretense: she's starving, and begins to

eat like it. Barbossa watches her intently.

Elizabeth does, a huge swig; she tears off a hunk of bread,

devours it.

She starts to bite into the apple -- stops. She is suddenly

aware of Barbossa's gaze -- and that he is not eating.

She shoves her plate away -- and takes the opportunity to

palm her knife. Barbossa LAUGHS.

He produces the medallion, lets it dangle from his fingers.

Elizabeth gives an infinitesimal shrug, intrigued despite

herself.

Barbossa stands, moves to a shelf. Puts a key to a medium-

sized polished wooden box -- the Captain's chest. Opens it.

Inside the chest are charts, some gold, a sextant -- and a

few pages of a Mayan CODEX, pieces of tree bark inscribed

with Mayan glyphs. Barbossa removes them carefully, sets

them on the table. Pours over them.

He looks up. Elizabeth has been rapt, involved in the story

-but feigns a dismissive attitude.

Barbossa is angry. He stands, sweeps the food off the

table.

for drink and food and pleasant company. But we found out:

the drink could not sate us, and the food turned to ashes

in our mouths, and no amount of pleasant company could ease

our torment.

(regains his composure)

We are cursed men, Miss Turner,

condemned, to be forever consumed by our own greed. Gold

calls to UB, always, and we are driven, always, to find

more, and add it to the treasure.

Barbossa picks up the priceless Codex. Crushes them in his

fist.

Elizabeth stares at him, horrified. Using the toe of his

boot, Barbossa flips an apple up off the floor, catches it,

extends it to Elizabeth.

Elizabeth slowly reaches for the apple -- and then comes up

out of her chair, trying to run around Barbossa_ They

struggle briefly, and then suddenly he shoves her away-

Elizabeth's stolen KNIFE is buried in Barbossa's chest, to

the hilt --

Barbossa is completely unaffected. He opens his shirt to

get a better look at the knife, pulls it out with little

effort. There is BLOOD on the blade, but none anywhere

else.

Elizabeth backs away, whirls and barrels out the door -

EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - NIGHT

-- Elizabeth comes to dead stop. She stares, her jaw

working, trying to scream but unable to -

The pirate crew works at their stations, coiling lines,

navigating the ship, swabbing decks -- but where the

moonlight falls across their bodies, they are nauqht but

SKELETONS. .

Elizabeth turns away from the sight -

Barbossa stands just inside the doorway, out of the

moonlight. He grabs her roughly by the shoulders and jerks

her back around -- Elizabeth shuts her eyes -

He spins her back around to face him -- he leans forward,

putting his face in the moonlight, turning it into a

gleaming SKULL with gold and silver teeth -

Elizabeth flinches away from the skeletal hand. It drops

away -- he takes a bottle of wine from the opened case

beside the cabin door, uncorks it with his teeth, raises it

-

He tilts the bottle and drinks -- it runs over his jaw,

through his rib cage, drenching his clothes.

Elizabeth darts around him, back into the cabin, and shuts

the door. Barbossa hurls the bottle away.

INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - NIGHT

Elizabeth huddles in the far corner of the cabin,

terrified.

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

The Interceptor cuts across the waves. Jack at the wheel;

Will tightens a line, moves back astern.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR - MAIN DECK - DAY

Will sharpens his sword with a whetstone: shhhk -- shhhk

...

Jack says nothing. Will has lost the patience for guile.

{an accusation}

You knew my father.

Jack considers his reply -- settles on 'truth.'

Will's sword is out, levelled at Jack. Jack gives him a

disbelieving look, sighs.

He kicks a lever on a wench. The sail boom whips around and

slams Will in the chest -- sweeping him off the ship. His

sword clatters onto the deck. Will dangles above the water.

Jack slips a loop of rope around the wheel to hold the

course. Picks up the sword -- and pokes at Will with it.

Will hand-over-hands away from the blade, to the end of the

boom.

Will looks away, not interested.

Jack swings the boom back in. Will drops to the deck. Jack

holds the hilt of the sword out. Will takes it. Glares at

Jack, considers what he'll do next. Jack watches him

coolly.

Will turns and strides to his spot on the deck, sits down,

and resumes sharpening his sword: shhhk -- shhhk -- shhhk

...

Jack breathes silent sigh of relief. Notices his hand is

shaking -- he takes the wheel.

EXT. TORTUGA - DAY

A dank and dirty port, where the tides seem to have swept

together the scum of the Caribbean -- pirates, privateers,

prostitutes, thieves, and drunkards.

With its cantered, rotting docks, weatherbeaten buildings,

and odd assortment of livestock running free -- a donkey,

chickens, etc. -- it is far less civilized than Port Royal.

Jack and Will move through the crowd. A REDHEADED woman

turns her head -- she has noticed Jack.

Suddenly the Redhead SLAPS Jack, hard. Satisfied, she turns

and strides off. Will ignores her.

Jack leads Will toward a pub: the Faithful Bride, the

emblem over the door a politically incorrect painting of a

smiling woman holding a bouquet in her chained-and-manacled

hands.

Jack pulls open the door; Will goes inside passing a pretty

ASIAN women coming out -- she sees Jack and immediately

SLAPS him, cursing something in Chinese. Jack backs away -

INT. THE FAITHFUL BRIDE - DAY

Jack closes the door on the woman, joins Will. They take in

the place -- it is populated with a slightly higher class

of scum. Jack spots a BARTENDER, smiles, moves forward -

--and is suddenly DECKED by a waitress. This is ANAMARIA,

tall, strong, tough; she didn't spill a drink off her tray.

She SLAPS him again. Will shakes his head, heads for the

bar. Jack gets up.

AnaMaria charges; Jack backs away, puts a table between

them. She chases him around the table, still carrying the

tray.

Away from them, a PATRON calls for his food. AnaMaria

scowls at Jack, moves away -- comes back for. one more

SLAP!

AT THE BAR, Will has spoken to the Bartender. Jack arrives,

rubbing his chin.

The Bartender nods 'yes.' Then nods 'out back.' Then

produces a water bucket from behind the bar.

Jack and Will exchange a look,-and Jack takes the bucket.

EXT. THE FAITHFUL BRIDE - REAR - DAY

A drunken man lays in the mud, having a friendly

conversation with two pigs. He wears an old tattered Navy

jacket.

A sudden SPRAY OF WATER splashes across his face,

revealing: this is old JOSHAMEE GIBBS (the man who told

pirate stories to Elizabeth when she was a child). He

sputters and roars:

Jack helps Gibbs to his feet -- and then Gibbs is hit with

a second wave of water. Will stands there with the bucket.

INT. THE FAITHFUL BRIDE - DAY

Jack and Gibbs sit at a table in the shadows, a single

candle illumining them, speaking in hushed voices. Will is

away from them, at the door, hand on sword, keeping a look-

out.

A tankard is set down. Gibbs lifts it to take a swig -

Gibbs pauses. He takes a dainty sip.

Gibbs evades answering by taking a long sip. Jack leans

forward. Gibbs leans forward.

Gibbs straightens up like he's been hit. He stares. He

reaches for the drink as if to down it -- but then sets it

back down. He leans forwards again. Jack has not moved.

ANGLE ON: Jack, as he smiles enigmatically, and shifts his

eyes' -- behind him, Will, still on guard, glares a sailor

away from the table.

Gibbs' eyes widen over the edge of the tankard. Peers at

Will. Then smiles, with more missing teeth than good ones.

Gibbs downs the drink, SLAMS the tankard on the table.

Will reacts to the sound, draws both sword and dagger,

kicks over a table for cover, and whirls on anyone who

moves.

EXT. TORTUGA - DOCK - LATER - DAY

On the docks, a disheveled, motley and weatherbeaten group

of about a dozen swabs stand in a ragged line-up.

Jack holds up a hand -- enough. He moves down the line,

Gibbs at his side. Then he notices AnaMaria in line,

dressed like a man, He raises an eyebrow.

Jack nods, continues. One sailor is quite fat, another

thin and sickly. Jack is not happy with his choices.

He stops in front of COTTON, a short sailor with a large,

colorful PARROT on his shoulder. Jack raises an eyebrow.

Cotton opens his mouth to show this -- Jack grimaces.

Jack decides to test this.

Cotton lifts the parrot off his shoulder, raises it --

Cotton nods vigorously, lowers the parrot, and it goes

silent. Jack shakes his head. Steps back.

Jack hears movement, looks back -- several potential crew

members back away in fright; first one, then another, turn

and run, followed by more.

Soon just a half dozen are left, including Cotton (with

parrot) -- and AnaMaria.

EXT. H. M. S. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

A FLASH of lightening and the CRACK of thunder. The canvas

of every sail is stretched taut. The ship rocks as it drops

into the valley of huge swell, climbs up the other side.

On board, the new crew members scurry about their tasks,

pulling lines and trimming sails. Excellent sailors, it

takes everything they have to keep the ship afloat.

AnaMaria is at the helm. Gibbs staggers along the deck.

On Jack, a ROARING wind blowing back his hair, eyes intent

on their course. Gibbs climbs the tilted deck toward him.

The wind picks up, howling. Jack smiles.

Jack turns back to the sea, enjoying himself. Gibbs stares

at him like he's a crazy man.'

INT. BLACK PEARL - CAPTAIN'S CABIN - DAY

The sound of RAIN pounds down on the deck above - - then

suddenly stops. Elizabeth moves to the stern windows, looks

out at the rolling sea below -- no escape there.

She hears the sound of a VQICE calling, gazes up, wondering

-

EXT. BLACK PEARL - CROW' S NEST - DAY

High on the main mast, Twigg cups his hands to his face, calls

down:

ON DECK, Barbossa moves to the rail. The storm clouds are

breaking up. On the horizon is a dark, ominous shape: ISLA DE

MUERTA. Mostly sheer unfriendly cliffs that shoot straight into

the water. It is surrounded by a slate grey sea.

Barbossa grasps the rail with both hands, his expression a

mixture of loathing and fear. Jacoby approaches, hesitant.

Jacoby nods, backs away. Barbossa continues to stare -

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

The Interceptor, on open waters, glorious, her white sails

set wing-to-wing.

EXT. H.M.S. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

CLOSE ON: Jack's compass, cradled in both hands. Jack leans

over and studies it -- almost like he's praying.

ON THE COMPASS -- the face shows old-fashioned rose petal

style direction markers below a quivering indicator that

settles on -- southeast.

AnaMaria turns the wheel, adjusting course. The ship leans

into the new direction. Jack looks down -

ON THE COMPASS -- where the indicator spins, reverses,

settles on -- northeast.

AnaMaria frowns, but follows the order, turns the wheel

back, and the ship responds.

Will works on deck, coiling a rope -- but he watches Jack

and AnaMaria, clearly not happy. Gibbs hobbles up.

Gibbs takes over the task. The ship shifts course again.

Will has had enough.

Gibbs settles in, happy to have a willing listener.

Gibbs voice is a whisper, now, so Will has to lean closer.

Will and Gibbs jump. Jack is right there beside them.

Will and Gibbs aren't sure what to make of that. Jack

laughs.

He starts off.

Jack lets this sink in. He pulls out the pistol, raises it.

Jack shoots a glance at Will -- nods, and moves away.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVE ENTRANCE - EVENING

On Barbossa, face upturned. No expression in his eyes.

Around him a group of pirates, Elizabeth among them, stand

as still as stones, in front of a dark cave opening. Their

faces look upward, their total lack of movement

disconcerting.

Above the cave, on a hillock, the pirate Koehler gazes out

toward the horizon. Slowly he TRANSFORMS, head-to-toe, from

pirate to SKELETON-

The MOON has climbed free of the storm clouds, rising

large. and full on the horizon. The skeleton turns -

He takes a torch. Moves into the cave. The pirates follow.

INT. ISLA DE MUERTE -     CAVES    - NIGHT

The group keeps together under the firelight. The path

leads between boulders on a slope downhill. From the echoes

and shadows, it's clear the cave system must be huge.

Elizabeth glances over -- the torches illumine caverns off

to the side -- and just the edge of a mound of coins.

Clearly there is more, but the rest is lost in darkness.

Twigg, gazing upward in wonder, moves a few feet away from

the group. Barbossa grabs him as he nears a chasm.

Barbossa lets go, and moves on, descending down, twisting

and turning, but always down -

EXT. H.M.S. INTERCEPTOR - NIGHT

Cotton pulls a sail line, looks out -- sees something. He

lifts the parrot off his shoulder, strokes it along the

back.

Indeed, the faint outline of Isla de Muerta is in the

distance on the port side. Will stands, excited, jumps onto

the rigging for a better look.

But AnaMaria, at the helm, stares at Cotton, and the

parrot.

INT. ISLA DE MUERTE - CAVES - NIGHT

Flickering torchlight. Pirates stoop low to enter a cavern

-

-- and revealed is the spectacular treasure of Isla de

Muerta: overflowing ,chests of coins, gold and silver

ingots, jewelry, objects d' art, jade and ivory, brightly

colored silks, furniture, jewels and pearls; mirrors and

swords -anything and everything of value that might be

carried by ship, is here.

The pirates move through, Elizabeth can't help but gaze in

wonder.

Elizabeth pauses, staring at herself in a jewel-encrusted

mirror -- and then is pushed along by the pirates.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - LAGOON - NIGHT

The Interceptor lies at anchor in the distance. Closer,

Jack and will row away from the larger vessel in a small

longboat, toward the rocky shore.

The RUSH of a waterfall grows louder. Will looks: ahead of

them is a black CAVE MOUTH, right at water level.

By now, the moving water tugs on the longboat, and they are

sucked in --

The boat rushes forward, plunges into the darkness -

INT. CAVES - UNDERWATER LAGOON - NIGHT

-- the longboat takes a harrowing drop over a short

waterfall ... but then lands safely in a gorgeous

underwater lagoon, floats lazily toward a sandy shore.

Will leaps out into the water, pulls the boat ashore -

INT. CAVES - BED CAVERN - NIGHT

The pirate group reaches the end of a small chamber of

mostly jewels and pearl piled around a large bed -

INT. CAVES - MAIN CAVERN - NIGHT

-- and then emerge into the largest cavern of all, also

crammed with treasure, including several mountains of gold

coins that reach the ceiling. Treasure everywhere -

Except for one spot in the center. A hole in the ceiling

lets in a column of moonlight, which illumines:

A stone chest, lid pushed back, decorated with carved Aztec

glyphs, filled with gold coins identical to Will's

medallion. A sharp stone knife lies on top.

In front of it, buried in the sand is a skeleton -- and

this one doesn't look like it's going to move ever again,

judging by the sword in its back. A crab scurries away from

it as the group approaches.

All eyes turn -- onto Elizabeth. Pintle takes the stone

knife from the chest, approaches her. Elizabeth shrinks

back, but is held by two other pirates.

Pintel grins. Grabs her by the wrist. She turns her head

away, shuts her eyes.

Pintle raises the knife ...

... and then very carefully, daintily, uses just the sharp

tip of the knife to just prick! Elizabeth's finger.

One tiny red drop of blood appears, and drips down onto the

medallion.

Elizabeth opens her eyes, surprised.

The pirates laugh. Barbossa takes the medallion, grins at

Elizabeth.

Barbossa approaches the chest, shining in the beam of

moonlight.

He tosses the gold medallion onto the others.

The pirates tense, waiting, expectant. A long beat. They

all look at each other, look at themselves. Nothing

happens.

Barbossa frowns, draws his pistol, and SHOOTS the pirate

next to him -- Jacoby -- square in the chest. Jacoby reacts

in shock, grabs his chest ... but doesn't die.

Barbossa searches his mind for an answer ... turns to

Elizabeth.

Elizabeth takes time to smile before answering:

The pirates cry out in alarm. Barbossa gathers himself,

getting his rage under steely control.

Barbossa SLAPS her hard across the face, sending her

sprawling.

Barbossa whirls on him --

Elizabeth sits up, watching the pirates argue, for a moment

unnoticed. Suddenly, a scabbard comes down, right above

her.

Startled, Elizabeth looks up --

-- Will is at the top of a mound of coins, reaching down

with his scabbard for her to grab onto.

Elizabeth quickly leans forward, takes the bloodied

medallion from the pile. Reaches back, grabs the scabbard.

Will pulls her up -

A sound catches his attention -- coins falling. He looks

up, sees Will and Elizabeth at the top of the treasure

stack.

ATOP THE STACK, Will grabs a large shield, flings them

forward -- the two ride down the mountain of coins on the

far side, slide through a small opening -

INT. ISLA DE MUERTE - SMALL CAVERN - NIGHT

Behind them, loose coins from their slide come down in an

avalanche, sealing the entrance.

Elizabeth jumps up, silver platter in hand, ready to swing

-Jack catches her before she can do any damage. They

recognize each other.

Elizabeth can't comprehend that one.

Will gains his footing in the rubble.

They race off, toward a bit of moonlight -

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - NIGHT

The three climb up a dark crevasse that leads out onto the

island. Will takes Elizabeth's hand, helps her.

As if on cue, they hear the yells of pirates, coming

closer. They take off -

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - CLEARING - NIGHT

The three race through the rocks, the sounds of pursuit

close behind. Suddenly Jack stops.

Will and Elizabeth stare at him.

The sounds are closer.

Will nods, hesitates... gives Jack his sword - - now Jack

has two, ..one for each hand. Elizabeth gives him a quick

kiss.

Will and Elizabeth race away, and are gone.

Jack watches them for a moment, turns to face the pirates.

He sticks the two swords in the ground, crossed. Leans

casually against a rock.

A group of pirates round a corner, cutlasses drawn, ready

to fight -- but Jack raises his hand.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - NIGHT

Jack stands before Barbossa, surrounded by pirates. Jack

has a wide smile on his face -- and Barbossa doesn't like

it.

Jack's smile remains. Barbossa puts a hand to his cutlass -

Barbossa hesitates.

Barbossa nods. Pintel steps forward, puts a blade to Jack's

throat. Jack's smile widens.

Surprised, Pintel lowers his cutlass. Jack's expression

hasn't changed.

Barbossa stares at him, incredulous.

The pirates laugh.

The pirates laugh louder.

Jack is still smiling, intentionally smug now. Barbossa

sees his options dwindling, begins to pace.

He sees where Jack is headed.

Barbossa hesitates. The pirates are amazed at how the tide

has turned; Barbossa has gone past considering the idea,

and might even do it.

Jack nods.

Jack is caught completely off guard. For the first time,

his smile fades.

Jack nods, and is taken away. Barbossa stares after him,

not hiding his mistrust.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

At full sail, headed out to sea. Gibbs glances at Elizabeth

and Will, talking alone on the forecastle -- shakes his

head.

Elizabeth holds the medallion, and finishes her tale:

She hands him the medallion.

Will nods. They hold each other's gaze a moment. Will turns

away first, leans on the rail. Looks out to sea, back the

direction they came.

Will glances at her, and nods.

AT THE HELM, Gibbs peers forward, scanning the horizon.

There

is a tiny island in front of them.

On the aft deck, Cotton concentrates on his work, securing

a halyard. Suddenly Cotton's parrot flaps its wings, takes

off, lands on the starboard bulwark, squawking -

Cotton looks up - on the horizon, following: black sails.

Gibbs and AnaMaria appear, and see the ship.

EXT. CARIBBEAN OCEAN - DAY

Miles of blue water. The Interceptor tacks, leaving a long

white wake. The Black Pearl matches it -- gaining.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - DAY

Barbossa and Pintel eye the Interceptor, two hounds chasing

the fox.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

The Black Pearl is now close behind the Interceptor -- and

the Interceptor is headed for the island.

A SAILOR at the stern of the ship pulls a release, and the

ship's anchor races down into the water, the metal chain

jumping and twisting on deck.

The chain stops, and the Sailor locks it -

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

With its forward momentum and the anchor down, the

Interceptor to turn quickly, pivoting around the anchor.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - DAY

Barbossa and Pintel watch as the huge ship brings its

cannons to bear right in front of them.

But for now, the Interceptor has the advantage, and takes

it:

its cannons boom, and cannonballs rain down.

INT. BLACK PEARL - BRIG - DAY

Jack sees what he can out the porthole. In the cell with

him is Twigg, acting as a guard.

Twigg just stares.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

Elizabeth watches  as the Black Pearl comes about -- and

then there is the  low, loud RUMBLE of two dozen cannons

firing as one. The  Interceptor is hit. A barrage of shots

follow; most find  their mark.

Sailors dive for cover, leaving their cannons; clearly they

are overmatched.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - PORT SIDE - DAY

Barbossa laughs.

EXT. INTERCEPTOR - DAY

Another round of fire; Barbossa shows no mercy.

upside down.

AnaMaria, Gibbs, Cotton, even Elizabeth -- all know what

this means. Will doesn't. He looks to Gibbs for an

explanation:

GIBBS That we are.

The Black Pearl fires again, a double-ball shot with a

chain connecting the two. It hits the main mast dead ani a

CRACKING, SPLINTING sound as it breaks, falls to the deck.

Barbossa moves his ship alongside, preparing to board.

Will stares -- and nods. But his expression is still

defiant.

The deck slants; the ship is sinking. pirates swarm across

on ropes, and take control of the Interceptor.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - DAY

The top masts of the H.M.S. Interceptor sink into the

smooth' crystal waters of the Caribbean -

-- as Will and Elizabeth, held by pirates, are brought

before Barbossa -- and see that Jack stands beside him,

manacled.

Gibbs, AnaMaria and Cotton and the other crewmembers huddle

together.

Barbossa's wrath falls on Elizabeth.

He shoves her into a group of pirates; they yell their

approval. She is pushed from one to another.

This goads Will to action. He head-butts the pirate behind

him, grabs a pistol, waves it at the pirates.

Will leaps onto the ship's rail. He steadies himself with a

hand on the rigging. Points the pistol at Barbossa.

He leans out over the ocean.

Jack pushes forward.

Pintel squints at Will; the pirates murmur surprise.

Jack drops his head. Barbossa grins at him.

Barbossa steps forward.

Barbossa considers; his crew waits. Finally -

Barbossa crosses himself, as do many of his men.

Will lowers the gun ... steps down -- the pirates surround

him. They snatch away the pistol.

Gibbs, AnaMaria, Cotton and the rest are led away under

guard. Barbossa looks out to sea, toward the islet.

A CHEER goes up from the pirates. Will realizes what

Barbossa intends to do, struggles with his captors.

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

The Black Pearl lies at anchor, closer now to the islet.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - DAY

Jack, wrists still bound, stands in the classic 'walking

the plank' pose. Elizabeth is next in line. Pirates crowd

the ship's rail to watch.

Barbossa smiles, shows a pistol. Points it at Jack.

The pirates mutter agreement.

A pirate hands Jack's pistol to Barbossa.

The pirates laugh. Barbossa tosses Jack the pistol -- but

over his head, and down into the water with a splash.

Jack glares at Barbossa. Then he's prodded with a cutlass,

takes a step out. Reaches the end of the plank -- steps

off.

Jack plunges down into the water. Appears on the surface,

floundering, struggles to stay afloat. Will and Elizabeth

exchange helpless looks; there is nothing they can do.

Elizabeth hesitates ... then strips it off, leaving her in

a silk slip. She throws it at him.

Barbossa indicates the plank.

Barbossa raises an eyebrow, grins, nods.

The pirates rush to comply. Lift her up, toss her over the

rail -- with a scream she falls --

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - UNDERWATER - DAY

We follow Elizabeth amid foam and bubbles as she PLUNGES

down

through the water. Blue and clear, with streaks of sunlight

cutting down; bright coral and tropical fish, and a lovely

young woman in a silk dress. .. if it weren't for the

mortal danger, the scene could be described as gorgeous.

Elizabeth spots Jack, below her now, sinking, struggling.

She swims down ... unties his bonds.

Elizabeth starts for the surface. Inexplicably, Jack swims

the other way, further down into the depths.

EXT. CARIBBEAN SEA - DAY

Elizabeth breaks the surface, looks around. And then,

finally Jack appears, sucking in air. He shows what he went

after: his pistol. He tucks it into his shirt.

She starts swimming. Jack hesitates. The Black Pearl is

already underway; he stares at it.

He turns away, and swims after Elizabeth.

EXT. ISLET - BEACH - DAY

CLOSE ON: The surf line. Elizabeth's feet leave prints in

the sand ... and then meet up with matching footprints she

made earlier, going in the same direction. She has walked

all the way around the island.

Jack lays on the beach. He has dismantled his pistol; the

parts, ball and powder dry on his scarf.

Jack checks to see if the pistol parts are dry; they are.

He sets about re-assembling and loading his pistol.

Jack has finished putting his pistol back together. He

shoves it in his belt, walks off.

Elizabeth can't believe it.

He climbs up toward a clump of palm trees. Digs for

something beneath the sand. He finds it: a large iron ring.

Jack heaves the trap door up and over, revealing a pit.

Inside are barrels and bottles of rum ... all covered with

dust and cobwebs, long abandoned. Jack's face falls.

He jumps down into the pit, cracks open a bottle of rum,.

takes a swig.

He gathers up a few bottles, heads for the beach.

He drinks -- and defiantly returns Elizabeth's angry gaze.

But then turns away, sits down.

Jack tosses her a bottle.

Elizabeth considers. Comes to a decision. She unseals the

bottle, takes a swig. They sit in silence for a bit.

Jack toasts her: you got it. Elizabeth studies her

bottle... gives Jack a sidelong glance. Back to her bottle

...

Jack likes the way that sounds.

He gathers two more bottles, tosses one to her. She drops

her half-finished bottle to catch it. Opens it, takes a

sip.

Elizabeth clears her throat, begins to sing self-

consciously, becoming stronger as she goes on.

She gestures for him to drink. He does.

EXT. ISLET - BEACH - LATER - NIGHT

The middle of the night. A fire BLAZES. Jack and Elizabeth

are roaring drunk, arm in arm, singing the song all the way

up to the stars --

Yo ho, yo ho, it's a pirates life for me!

They hoist their bottles, but only Jack drinks. He drains

the bottle, then tosses it away.

Elizabeth salutes the idea with her bottle. Jack doesn't

have a bottle to salute back. She hands him hers. He

drinks, then settles shakily to the ground. Elizabeth sits

beside him.

Elizabeth lays her head on his shoulder.

Elizabeth shrugs with a sleight -- but promising -- smile.

She picks up the empty bottle from the ground, holds it up.

They tap the bottles together. Elizabeth feigns a drink as

he chugs. He taps his bottle against her again. She laughs,

feigns another drink -

EXT. ISLET - BEACH - MORNING

CLOSE ON -- JACK'S FACE, dead asleep, lying in the

sunlight. His nose twitches. A bit of SMOKE drifts by. His

nose twitches again. His eyes open.

Jack GROANS and sits up. He rubs his head, looks over -

-- all of the foliage in the middle of the island is ON

FIRE. Smoke rises high up into the clear blue sky.

Jack leaps to his feet. He sees Elizabeth, as she pours out

the last of the rum, dowsing a scrub brush at the base of a

palm tree. It goes up in FLAMES. She rolls the barrel

forward -- it starts to BURN merrily.

Jack can't believe his eyes.

She wipes her hands together. One of the rum barrels in the

fire EXPLODES.

She points to the sky.

Elizabeth turns toward the sea.

She sits down, determined. Shields her eyes, scans the

water, waiting, searching. Jack is speechless. He throws up

his hands, stalks up the sand dune, just to get away from

her.

EXT. ISLET - LEEWARD SHORE - DAY

At the crest of the dune, Jack stops -- and stares,

incredulous. We come around to see what he is looking at -

Past Jack, anchored the other side of the island, white

sails glorious against the turquoise waters, is the H.M.S.

Dauntless. A longboat is already being rowed toward them.

Jack shakes his head.

EXT. H.M.S. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - DAY

Norrington gives Elizabeth a hand disembarking from the

raised long boat.

Norrington considers. To Gillette:

Gillette unlocks Jack's manacles. Jack raises an eyebrow.

Crew men lead Jack toward the bridge. Sailors go about

their tasks, and the ship begins its slow turn.

Elizabeth looks at Norrington, seeing him in a new light.

They gaze at each other for a moment. Norrington looks

away.

Norrington is exasperated, but then can't help but grin -

this is exactly why he loves her. She grins back at him -

she's not going to change.

Elizabeth smiles, allows herself to be escorted away.

Norrington watches her go ... then turns his gaze to the

sea.

INT. THE BLACK PEARL - BRIG - DAY

Pintel enters the cell. It appears empty -- but that's

because Will is hanging from the rafters, trying to shove

up the ceiling planks with his legs.

Will drops lightly to the deck. Suddenly:

Will reacts with shock at the account of his father's fate.

Barbossa appears behind Pintel, flanked by several other

pirates. He regards Will for a moment, then:

EXT. H. M.. S.. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - EVENING

Jack goes to the rail and waits, pretending to look out at

the sea. Elizabeth, dressed in sailor's clothes to

excellent effect, joins him.

Isla de Muerta lay dark and menacing on the horizon.

She starts to speak; he turns away..

Norrington gazes through his spyglass, at the island. Jack

watches with some amusement as Elizabeth is escorted away.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVE ENTRANCE - EVENING

Torches are lit. Barbossa leads Will, guarded by Pintel and

a band of pirates, into the caves.

EXT. H.M.S. DAUNTLESS - MAIN DECK - NIGHT

A long boat is prepared to be lowered over the side. Jack

wraps his pistol securely in an oilskin pouch.

The crewmen release the lines, and the boat drops -

INT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVES - NIGHT

The pirate group moves deeper into the caves. Will moves

along unwillingly.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTE - NIGHT

The Dauntless drifts into the lagoon. Norrington and his

men prepare to go ashore.     h

INT. ISLA DE MUERTA - CAVES - NIGHT

Lit by torchlight. Will notices: a crack runs between the

floor and the wall of the cave, widening into a ravine.

Will makes a decision. He intentionally stumbles. Pintel

shoves him forward -- Will continues forward, grabs the

pirate in front of him, swings him into the wall of the

cave. Catches the pirate's torch, and uses it to ward off

the others.

He steps to one side -- and drops into the ravine. The wall

of the ravine becomes a loose gravel slope; Will hits it,

and tumbles down, disappears into black.

INT. DAUNTLESS - CAPTAIN'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Elizabeth looks out the Captain's small porthole -- sees

boats laden with Navy men headed for shore.

She turns away from the porthole, wishing there was

something she could do. Suddenly there is a flutter at the

window--

Cotton's parrot is there.

The bird flutters off; Elizabeth races to the porthole, and

then to the stern window to see it flyaway.

She looks down -- and there, fastened to the stern of the

ship, is a small rowboat.

INT. ISLA DEMUERTA - CAVES - NIGHT

Will races forward, turning this way and that. He sees a

light ahead, heads for it, turns a corner -

-- and runs straight into Jack.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA -       THE BEACH - NIGHT

Norrington and men land on the beach, and spread out. They

silently take up positions around the main cave entrance.

INT. CAVES - NIGHT

Jack leads Will out of a narrow passage -- and stops,

staring. Will is a few steps behind.

Will join him -- and see what Jack is staring at:

Treasure piled on treasure, sparkling, glowing, seemingly

endless. At the center is the moonlit clearing, and the

stone Aztec chest.

The jump -- Barbossa is standing right behind them, flanked

by his men. The trio whirl to run - - more pirates emerge

from hiding. Nearly the entire crew of the Black Pearl is

there.

The pirates grab Will and Jack. Will struggles, but Jack

does not fight at all.

He laughs, and moves toward the stone chest. The pirates

follow, dragging Will and Jack with them.

Jack looks away -- as Will is manhandled toward the chest.

Barbo8sa steps up to him (becoming skeletal in the

moonlight) and puts the medallion around Will's neck.

He picks up the stone knife.

He raises the knife to Will's throat -

Barbossa pretends to think about his words.

That makes Barbossa pause. He steps out of the moonlight.

A buzz of apprehension sweeps through the pirates.

Jack shakes off the hands holding him, strolls toward

Barbossa, Will, and the chest of coins.

Will glares, listening to every word he says. Jack scoops

up a handful of coins from the chest.

Jack smiles and spreads his hands: me.

Barbossa licks his lips. It's tempting ...

The pirates yell to the affirmative.

Jack's expression falters; this he hadn't planned for.

EXT. LAGOON - UNDERWATER - NIGHT

Moonlight shines down into the shallow waters, brightening

coral, sparkling over the rippled sand floor.

Suddenly all the fish SCATTER. Briefly, the waters are

empty.

And then FIGURES appear in the distance, seeming to waver

in the shifting current. They scuffle forward, kicking up

clouds of sand --

The figures resolve into the skeleton PIRATES, moving

silently across the lagoon floor, swords glinting. The

tatters of their clothing drift in the water. Their skull

heads are fixed in an endless grin.

The LEAD PIRATE glides forward -

And stops next to a huge iron ANCHOR -- twice his' height,

even buried halfway into the sand. A heavy CHAIN with

barrel-sized links climbs up toward the surface -

A SHADOW falls across the Lead Pirate -- he TRANSFORMS, and

we see that it is Pintel. He looks up -

Above, the heavy chain leads to the giant bottom hull of

the H.M.S. Dauntless, silhouetted by moonlight.

The huge shift drifts, again spilling moonlight below -

And the pirates gathered around the anchor are once again

SKELETONS, staring with upturned faces. The Pintel-skeleton

puts a knife between his teeth, starts to crawl up the iron

rings.

Other pirates crowd forward, and soon the anchor-chain is

clustered with skeletons -

EXT. LAGOON - NIGHT

Elizabeth has the small boat out, and rows away from the

Dauntless, looking ahead over her shoulder. Cotton's parrot

is nowhere to be seen.

In the distance, Pintel breaks the surface near the

Dauntless, intent on climbing the anchor; he looks over -

Just as Elizabeth rounds the point, and rocks obscure the

small longboat from view.

More skeleton-pirates appear, and Pintel continues his

climb.

EXT. LAGOON - DAUNTLESS - NIGHT

Two SAILORS, alert and vigilant, stare out toward shore.

The island reveals nothing but blackness.

There is a scurrying sound -- bones scraping against wood -

and the sailors JUMP. They listen, intently -- nothing.

They turn back toward the island, continue their vigil. A

long pause.

From behind, the two sailors at the rail are well-lit by a

lantern. Suddenly shadows appear, skeletons, climbing up

the sailor's backs. -MOVE CLOSER and then the skeletons

appear, reaching -- the two sailors are grabbed from behind

-

EXT. DAUNTLESS - SIDE - NIGHT

Two bodies are tossed out over the rail, hit the water with

a splash.

EXT. DAUNTLESS - SIDE - NIGHT

Pintel looks down into the water, satisfied. Puts away his

knife. Notices, pulls out a long piece of seaweed from his

rib cage. Tosses it. Turns to the others.

The pirates hurry to comply -

EXT. LAGOON - BLACK PEARL - NIGHT

Elizabeth rounds the point further, and sees: the Black

Pearl, anchored in the neighboring cove. A fleck of color -

Cotton's parrot, as it darts in through a porthole.

Elizabeth slows her efforts, silently approaching the ship.

EXT. BLACK PEARL - MAIN DECK - NIGHT

Four PIRATES -- who really ought to be keeping watch -

instead have gathered wine bottles and rum casts into a

pile, along apples, biscuits -- all the food on the ship.

They act out a mock-feast, in anticipation of the curse

being lifted. A SKINNY skeleton offers two bottles BIG

BONED

skeleton.

They burst out laughing -- a hideous sound that wheezes

through their bones.

Behind them, unnoticed, Elizabeth peeks cautiously around a

corner. She picks her moment and sneaks past quickly, down

a gangway, disappearing into the blackness of the ship.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - BEACH - NIGHT

Gillette crouches, running low behind a line of rocks. He

reports to Norrington:

It's the sound of cannon fire -- coming from the Dauntless.

Cannonballs hit the shore; men cry out in anguish.

The sailors scramble to find refuge -

INT. ISLA DE MUERTA - MAIN CAVERN - NIGHT

Will, guarded by pirates, glares at Jack.

Jack takes the opportunity to move toward him.

Before Will can answer, Jack smoothly slips the sword from

a Pirate's scabbard -- tosses it to Will, who catches it

despite his surprise.

He draws his own sword -- and clobbers the Pirate. Barbossa

and the other pirates stare in shock -

Swords are drawn, and the Pirates attack.

Jack and Will take on multiple opponents, each with his own

style: Will parries, glissades and disarms with lightning

fast and perfect form, while Jack uses his blade, fists,

acrobatics and anything within reach to survive.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - BEACH - NIGHT

The sailors charge. The moon emerges from behind a cloud -

Suddenly army of SKELETON PIRATES rise up from the sea, and

charge the stunned sailors -- several men are struck down -

The sailors recover their nerve, and engage the enemy. It's

a full on battle, Royal Navy against Skeleton Pirates -

The Navy men are driven back, surrounded -

Suddenly there is a massive BOOM of cannon fire.

Norrington, in the midst of a swordfight, tries to see -

EXT. LAGOON - NIGHT

It's the Black Pearl, manned by Gibbs, AnaMaria and Cotton,

and captained by Elizabeth, coming around the point,

cannons blazing.

EXT. H.M. S. DAUNTLESS - NIGHT

The pirates on the ship are caught by surprise, try to turn

their cannons to this new foe -

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - BEACH - NIGHT

Gillette sees the Black Pearl firing on the Dauntless.

The Royal Navy stand their ground and fight -

INT. CAVE - MAIN CHAMBER - NIGHT

Only two pirates left: Barbossa and Jacoby. Jacoby rounds

on Will; Barbossa faces off against Jack.

Jack drives him back, making Barbossa laugh.

To prove his point, he drops his own sword -- and catches

Jack's sword with both hands. Jack can't free it. Barbossa

twists the sword from Jack's grip, reverses it -

- - AND DRIVES THE SWORD INTO JACK'S CHEST.

Will battling Jacoby, sees it -- he smashes Jacoby in the

jaw, crumpling him

Jack stares down at the sword jutting from his chest. He

takes a few steps backward, toward the Aztec gold -- when

he steps into the moonlight, JACK BECOME SKELETAL.

Skeleton Jack pulls the sword from his chest. He pulls

something from his pocket: one of the Aztec coins.

Barbossa grabs up his sword, and rushes Jack. Both men are

in moonlight now, two skeletons in pitched battle.

He shoves Barbossa back, out of the moonlight. Barbossa

stalks the room, his attention focused on Jack.

Barbossa charges -

A SHOT RINGS OUT -

Jack stands out of the moonlight, flesh and blood again,

holding his smoking pistol, still aimed at Barbossa.

Will stands over the Aztec chest, holding a bloody sword,

his left hand in a fist. He opens the fist -

-- the medallion, blood covering it, drops from his hand,

revealing the cut in his palm.

Barbossa stares, then looks down at his chest. Blood

blossoms on his shirt around the bullet hole. It spreads

quickly.

Barbossa clutches his chest, his face registering pain for

the first time in years. Barbossa falls heavily to the

ground, dead.

Jack blows the smoke from the barrel of his pistol...

tosses it away.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - BEACH - NIGHT

Murtogg FIRES a pistol at a pirate. The pirate is hit,

screams in pain, and crumples to the ground. Mullroy runs

through another with his sword.

The pirates react to the sight, and quickly realize their

peril. They set their weapons down in surrender.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - LAGOON - NIGHT

The Black Pearl comes alongside the Dauntless, and Jack's

crew swarm across, overwhelming the pirates.

The sailors on the beach see it, and CHEER.

INT. ISLA DE MUERTE - CAVE - MAIN CAVERN - NIGHT

Will wraps a cloth around his palm; Jack joins him near the

chest.

Jack cuts his palm, grips the coin he stole above the chest

... and then hesitates.

Will looks at him...

Jack releases the coin. It lands in the chest beside the

other bloody coin.

Suddenly, the lid of the chest, all on its own, SLAMS SHUT.

Elizabeth stares at it.

EXT. ISLA DE MUERTA - BEACH - NIGHT - LATER

Jack, Will, and Norrington gather together on the beach.

Elizabeth calls out:

The three men turn as one. An awkward moment -- which of

them does she mean?

Elizabeth races across the sand, toward them -- and

straight to Will. She throws her arms around his neck in a

hug.

Elizabeth can't believe that's what he noticed. Indignant,

she steps away from him.

She reaches a hand behind his neck, decisively kisses him.

Pure consternation on Elizabeth's face -

Will sweeps her in his arms, leans her back, and kisses her

long and well -

Jack puts a hand on Norrington's shoulder.

EXT. PORT ROYAL - FORT CHARLES - DAY

Close on: Will's face, stoic, staring forward. He stands

straight and unmoving. Around him are members of the Royal

Navy, standing before for a group of witnesses from town.

It is the courtyard on the top of Fort Charles. A trial is

underway -- with Will as the defendant.

In the crowd, Elizabeth squeezes the hand of her father,

Swann. She lets go as Swann stands.

All eyes turn. Gillette stands at the top of a stairway.

Will and Elizabeth exchange looks. You? Not me, you? No,

not me either! Swann notices something the parapet, points

-

People rush to the parapet. Sure enough, below in the bay

are the distinctive black sails of the Pearl. The ship cuts

through the waters very close to the point -

-- where the gallows of the pirates are. Suddenly Jack

appears, on the point; he swings off the one empty

gallows, across and down onto the ship's rigging as it

passes.

Norrington raises his hand ... twirls a key on his finger.

Will, Elizabeth and Swann look out toward ocean-

EXT. BLACK PEARL - STERN DECK - DAY

Jack monkeys down the rigging. AnaMaria is at the wheel.

Jack runs a hand lovingly along the rail, then takes the

wheel. It feels good -- right -- in his hands. He enjoys

it, and then shifts to 'Captain' mode.

Gibbs actually stomps the deck, executes a salute.

Jack stands at the wheel: he's got his ship back, and all

is right with the world. He begins to unconsciously hum:

"Yo, ho, yo, ho, a pirate's life for me ..."

He realizes what he's doing and smiles, the orchestra takes

over as the Black Pearl sails for uncharted waters ... and

we FADE UP large words in script:

