EXT. GALAXY - PLANET HOTH

A Star Destroyer moves through space, releasing Imperial probe robots

from its underside.

One of these probes zooms toward the planet Hoth and lands on its ice-

covered surface.  An explosion marks the point of

impact.

EXT. HOTH - METEORITE CRATER - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

A weird mechanical sound rises above the whining of the wind.  A

strange probe robot, with several extended sensors, emerges from the

smoke-shrouded crater.  The ominous mechanical probe floats across the

snow plain and disappears into the distance.

EXT. PLAIN OF HOTH - DAY

A small figure gallops across the windswept ice slope.  The bundled

rider is mounted on a large gray snow lizard, a Tauntaun.  Curving

plumes of snow rise from beneath the speeding paws of the two-legged

beast.

The rider gallops up a slope and reins his lizard to a stop.  Pulling

off his protective goggles, Luke Skywalker notices something in the

sky.  He takes a pair of electrobinoculars from his utility belt and

through them sees smoke rising from where the probe robot has crashed.

The wind whips at Luke's fur-lined cap and he activates a comlink

transmitter.  His Tauntaun shifts and moans nervously beneath him.

After a little static a familiar voice is heard.

Luke clicks off his transmitter and reins back on his nervous lizard.

He pats the beast on the head to calm it.

Luke takes a small device from his belt and starts to adjust it when

suddenly a large shadow falls over him from behind.  He hears a

monstrous howl and turns to see an eleven-foot-tall shape towering over

him.  It is a Wampa Ice Creature, lunging at him ferociously.

Luke grabs for his pistol, but is hit flat in the face by a huge white

claw.  He falls unconscious into the snow and in a moment the terrified

screams of the Tauntaun are cut short by the horrible snap of a neck

being broken.

The Wampa Ice Creature grabs Luke by one ankle and drags him away

across the frozen plain.

EXT. HOTH - REBEL BASE ENTRANCE - DAY

A stalwart figure rides his Tauntaun up to the entrance of an enormous

ice cave.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Rebel troopers rush about unloading supplies and otherwise securing

their new base.  The rider, Han Solo, swings off his lizard and pulls

off his goggles.

He walks into the main hangar deck toward the Millennium Falcon, which

is parked among several fighters.  Mechanics, R2 units, and various

other droids hurry about.  Han stops at the Millennium Falcon where his

Wookiee copilot, Chewbacca, is welding on a central lifter.  Chewie

stops his work and lifts his face shield, growling an irritated

greeting to his boss.

The Wookiee grumbles a reply.

Chewbacca puts his mask back on and returns to his welding as Han

leaves.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

A makeshift command center has been set up in a blasted area of thick

ice.  The low-ceilinged room is a beehive of activity. Controllers,

troops, and droids move about setting up electronic equipment and

monitoring radar signals.

General Rieekan straightens up from a console at Han's approach.

No sign of life out there, General.

The sensors are in place.  You'll

know if anything comes around.

Taking a deep breath, Han blurts out what is on his mind.

Princess Leia, standing at a console nearby, is dressed in a short

white combat jacket and pants.  Her hair is braided across her head in

a Nordic fashion.  She overhears their  conversation and seems somewhat

distressed.

He turns to Leia as Rieekan moves away.

Leia is angry.  Han sees she has no warmth to offer him.  He shakes his

head and adopts a sarcastic tone.

Han walks away into the quiet corridor adjoining the command center.

Leia stews a moment, then hurries after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Han stops in the corridor and turns to face Leia.

Leia stares at him, understanding, then laughs.

You're imagining things.

Angrily, Han strides down the corridor as Leia stares after him.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ANOTHER ICE CORRIDOR

A familiar stream of beeps and whistles herald the approach of Artoo-

Detoo and See-Threepio, who appear around a corner and move along an

ice wall toward the main hangar.

Artoo beeps a stream of protesting whistles.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The two robots stop at Han Solo's space freighter.  Han and Chewie are

struggling with their central lifters.

Chewie grumbles in irritation.

Han glances at the fading light at the entrance of the ice cave as

night slowly begins to fall on the planet.

Han jumps down off the lift, as Threepio follows him.

Han abruptly puts his hand over Threepio's mouth as the deck officer

approaches.

The deck officer leaves hurriedly, as Han takes his hand off Threepio's

mouth.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN ICE TUNNEL

The deck officer and his assistant hurry toward Han as he enters the

tunnel.

Han pushes through the troops and mounts a Tauntaun.

Han maneuvers his mount out of the cave and races into the dark bitter

night.

EXT. HOTH - ICE GORGE - DUSK

The jagged face of a huge ice wall sits gloomily in the dim twilight of

a Hoth day.  Luke hangs upside down, ankles frozen into icy

stalactites, his extended arms within a foot of the snow floor.  One

side of his face is covered in a dried mask of frozen blood.  He opens

his eyes as a chilling moan of the hideous ice creature echoes off the

gorge walls.  Luke pulls himself up, grabs hold of his ankles, and

futilely tries to unfasten the throngs.

Exhausted, he drops back into his hanging position.  As he hangs there,

he spies his lightsaber lying near a pile of his discarded gear, about

three feet out of reach.

He focuses on the saber and, as his hand strains toward the weapon, he

squeezes his eyes tight in concentration.

Just as the ice creature looms over Luke, the lightsaber jumps into

Luke's hand.

The young warrior instantly ignites his sword, swinging up, and cuts

himself loose from the ice.  He flops to the snow in a heap.  The

startled creature moves back, his giant yellow eyes blinking.  Luke

scrambles to his feet.  He swings his lightsaber and the beast screams

in pain.

EXT. HOTH - ENTRANCE TO ICE GORGE - DUSK

Luke staggers out of the gorge into the dark and snowy twilight.  Weak

and exhausted, he stumbles down a snow bank.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DUSK

A small, lone figure riding a Tauntaun races through the hostile

vastness of snow and cold.  As it runs, the Tauntaun's legs kick up

large clouds of snow and ice into the snowy air.

EXT. HOTH - OUTSIDE ICE				 HANGAR - DUSK

Artoo stands in the falling snow, beeping worriedly.  Threepio moves

stiffly over to him.

Artoo beeps, long and low.

Threepio turns to go back inside the main hangar as Artoo mournfully

keeps his vigil.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

The wind is blowing quite strong now.  Luke struggles to stay upright,

but a blast of freezing snow knocks him over.  He struggles to get up,

but he can't.  The young warrior from Tatooine drags himself a couple

of feet and then collapses.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK - ENTRANCE - NIGHT

Princess Leia stands inside the dark entrance to the Rebel base,

waiting for a sign of the two Rebel heroes.  She shivers in the cold

wind as, nearby, Chewie sits with his head in his hands.  In the

background, Artoo and Threepio move through the doors.

A Rebel lieutenant moves to Major Derlin, an officer keeping watch with

the princess.

Leia nods an acknowledgment, but she is lost in thought.

He turns to the lieutenant.

The lieutenant walks away.  Chewie lets out a long, mournful howl,

somewhat like a coyote.  At the same moment, Artoo begins a complex

series of efficient beeps.

Leia stands praying to herself as the huge metal doors slam across the

entrance of the ice cave.  The loud booms echo throughout the huge

cavern.  Chewie lets out another suffering howl.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW DRIFT - DUSK

Luke lies face down in the snow, nearly unconscious.  Slowly he looks

up and sees Ben Kenobi, barely visible through the blowing snow.  It is

hard to tell if Kenobi is real or a hallucination.

The image of Ben fades, revealing a lone Tauntaun rider approaching

from the windswept horizon.

Luke drops into unconsciousness.

Han pulls up and leaps off his mount.  He hurries to his snow-covered

friend, cradling him in his arms.  Han's Tauntaun lets out a low,

pitiful bellow.  But Han's concern is with Luke, and he shakes him

urgently.

Luke doesn't respond.  Han begins frantically rubbing and slapping

Luke's unconscious face.  As he starts to lift the youth, Han hears a

rasping sound behind him.  He turns, just in time to see his Tauntaun

stagger and then fall over into the snow.

Han carries Luke to the moaning beast.  Then, with a final groan, the

Tauntaun expires.

He pushes Luke's inert form against the belly of the dead beast.

Han ignites Luke's saber and cuts the beast from head to toe.  He

quickly tosses it's steaming innards into the snow, then lifts Luke's

inert form and stuffs him inside the carcass.

The wind has picked up considerably, making it difficult to move.  Han

removes a pack from the dead creature's back, taking out a shelter

container.  He begins to set up what can only be a pitiful protection

against a bitter Hoth night.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAWN

Four snub-nosed armored snowspeeders race across the white landscape.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER COCKPIT

There is only one pilot, Zev, in the enclosed two-man craft.  He

concentrates on the scopes which ring his cockpit.  He hears a low beep

from one of his monitors.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT

The small craft banks and makes a slow arc, then races off in a new

direction.

INT. SNOWSPEEDER - COCKPIT

The pilot switches over to a new transmitter.

There is a sharp crackle of static, then a faint voice.

EXT. HOTH - SNOWDRIFT - DAY

The small shelter Han set up is covered with snow on the windward side.

A makeshift antenna rests gingerly on top the snowdrift.  Han spots

Zev's snowspeeder approaching in the distance, and begins waving his

arms frantically at the tiny craft.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Strange robot surgeons adjust a mass of electronic equipment.  A switch

is thrown and a sudden blinding flash obscures Luke in a bacta tank

filled with a thick, gelatinous slime.  He begins to thrash about,

raving in delirium.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER - RECOVERY ROOM

Luke sits up in a recovery-room bed, weak but smiling.  His face shows

terrible wounds from the Wampa's attack.  Threepio and Artoo enter the

room.

Artoo beeps his good wishes.

Han and Chewie make their entrance.  The Wookiee growls a greeting.

Han turns as Leia enters the room.  He looks at her with a big,

devilish grin.

Chewie is amused; he laughs in his manner.  Han, enjoying himself,

regards Chewie good-humoredly.

Luke sparks to this; he looks at Leia.

Leia is flushed, eyes darting between Luke and Han.

Leia looks vulnerable for a moment, then the mask falls again, and she

focuses on Luke.

With that she leans over and kisses Luke on the lips.  Then she turns

on her heel and walks out, leaving everyone in the room slightly

dumbstruck.  With some smugness, Luke puts his hands behind his head

and grins.

Suddenly, in the distance, the muffled sound of an alarm is heard.

The voice repeats the order and Han, Chewie, Artoo, and Threepio hurry

out of the room, bidding farewell to Luke.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Rieekan looks up grimly from a console screen.  He calls over to Leia

and Han.

The group hurries over to Rieekan.

Threepio steps up to the control panel and listens intently to the

strange signal.

The transmission ends in static.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW PLAIN - DAY

The dark probe robot moves past the smoldering ruins of station three-

eight and down a ridge toward the Rebel base.  It raises a large

antenna from the top of its head and begins to send out a piercing

signal.

The probe droid has spotted Chewbacca who, not thirty feet away, has

popped his head over a snow bank.  Instantly, the probe robot swings

around, its deadly ray ready to fire.  But before it can get a shot

off, it is hit from behind by a laser bolt, and explodes in a million

pieces.

Han Solo replaces his blaster in its holster and peers intently at the

smoldering remains of the Imperial probe.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Leia and Rieekan listen to Han on the comlink.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Darth Vader's Star Destroyer, larger and more awesome than the five

Imperial Star Destroyers that surround it, sits in the vastness of

space.  The six huge ships are surrounded by a convoy of smaller

spacecraft.  TIE fighters dart to and fro.

INT. DARTH VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - MAIN CONTROL DECK

Controllers working the vast complex of electronic controls hear

ominous approaching footsteps and look up from their controls.  The

squat, evil-looking Admiral Ozzel and the young, powerfully built

General Veers, who have been conferring near the front, also feel the

approaching presence and turn toward it.  Darth Vader, Lord of the

Sith, enters like a chill wind.  As Vader moves across the wide bridge,

Captain Piett hurries up to Ozzel.

Vader moves to a large screen showing an image of the Rebel snow base.

Rebel speeders can be seen approaching the base in the distance.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - TRANSPORT BAY

A captain issues instructions to two of his men at the entrance to the

main transport bay.  Several Rebel transports behind them are being

loaded by men carrying heavy boxes and moving quickly, but not in

panic.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Alarms sound.  Troops, ground crews, and droids rush to their alert

stations.  Armored snowspeeders are lined up in attack formation near

the main entrance.

In the midst of all this activity, Han does some frantic welding on the

lifters of the Millennium Falcon.

Han finishes his work and hops down to the hangar floor.  He pulls out

his comlink, all the while eyeing problematic lifters.

Smoke rises from a minor explosion on the lifter.  Exasperated, Han

surveys the new damage.

INT. REBEL BASE - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke dresses in readiness for the evacuation as his attending medical

droid stands by.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and R2 units scurry about.  Luke, pulling on his

heavy-weather jacket, is headed toward a row of armored speeders.  He

stops at the rear of the Millennium Falcon, where Han and Chewie are

trying to repair the right lifter with even more haste than before.

As Luke pats Chewie on the arm, Chewie puts his arms around Luke and

gives him a tight hug.  Han is discussing the lifter with a repair

droid when he sees Luke.

Luke smiles, then waves at his friend and walks on.  After a few steps,

he stops and looks back.  Han glances up and the two exchange a silent

communication, each wishing the other safety, happiness - many things,

all difficult to verbalize.

INT. REBEL BASE - CONTROL ROOM.

Alarms sound throughout the hidden Rebel base.  In the control room, a

controller urgently gestures for General Rieekan to check a computer

scan.

Rieekan exits hurriedly.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER - MEDITATION CUBICLE

The dark cubicle is illuminated by a single shaft of light which falls

on the brooding Dark Lord as he sits on a raised meditation cube.

General Veers enters the room and approaches the silent, unmoving

Vader.  Although seemingly very sure of himself, Veers is still not

bold enough to interrupt the meditating lord.  The younger general

stands quietly at attention until the evil presence speaks.

Veers turns smartly and leaves as Vader activates a large viewscreen

showing the bridge of his mighty ship.  Admiral Ozzel appears on the

viewscreen, standing slightly in front of Captain Piett.

Piett steps forward, as the admiral moves away, slightly confused,

touching his throat as it begins to constrict painfully.

Make ready to land out troops beyond

the energy shield and deploy the

fleet so that nothing gets off that

system.  You are in command now,

Admiral Piett.

Piett's pleasure about his unexpected promotion is not an unmixed

emotion.  He glances warily at the struggling Admiral Ozzel who, with a

final choke, stumbles and falls in a lifeless heap before him.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

With a sense of urgency, Leia quickly briefs a group of pilots gathered

in the center of the hangar.

The pilots hurry away.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH - DAY

Rebel troops carry heavy bazooka-type weapons and position them along

the snow trench.  Men hurriedly respond to their officers' yelled

orders and brace themselves against the rhythmic gusts of bitter-cold

wind.

Other troops load power packs into a gun turret and swing its guns into

position.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - POWER GENERATORS

Near the base power generators, troops rush to set up their heavy

battle equipment.  Buzzing loudly, the generators send along, sparking

fingers of energy into the bitter Hoth wind.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

The long line of Rebel controllers is tense, as are Princess Leia and

General Rieekan, who are trying very hard not to show any fear.

EXT. ICE PLAIN

The Rebel transport and two escort fighters begin their departure from

the ice planet.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

A huge Imperial Star Destroyer rest against a sea of stars, far above

the white surface of the planet Hoth.

INT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

An Imperial controller approaches his commander.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

EXT. REBEL BASE ICE CAVE - ION CANNON

The giant ball-shaped ion cannon rotates into position and blasts two

red energy beams skyward.

EXT. SPACE - HOTH - REBEL TRANSPORT

The Rebel transport and its escort race away from the white planet,

closely followed by the two red energy beams.

As the Rebel transport races toward the waiting Imperial Star

Destroyer, it is overtaken by the two scarlet energy bolts.  The

Imperial Star Destroyer is hit in the conning tower by the powerful

bolts, which set up fiery explosions on its metal hull.

The big Star Destroyer veers, then spins wildly out of control.  As the

Imperial ship careers into deep space, the Rebel transport races away

to safety.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Pilots, gunners, and troopers hurry to their stations and their

vehicles.

Everyone cheers at the announcement, which echoes through the hangar.

Luke turns and walks on, heading toward his snowspeeder.  His gunner,

Dack, a fresh-faced, eager kid, is glad to see him.  They climb in.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN

A thin horizon line cuts across the bleak landscape.  Small dot-size

objects begin to appear on the horizon, moving in the direction of the

Rebel base.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

A Rebel officer lifts a pair of electrobinoculars to his eyes.  Through

the lens he sees a very close view of a giant Imperial snow walker.  He

adjusts the view which then zooms back to reveal three more of the

ominous battle machines.  Small flashes of yellow fire billow from the

guns of the lumbering snow walkers.

The officer lowers his binoculars as the regular rhythmic pounding

begins to make the ground vibrate.  The pounding grows louder and is

accompanied by a high-pitched, metallic rattling.  The officer speaks

into his comlink.

INT. REBEL BASE - CORRIDOR

Pilots and gunners race to their waiting snowspeeders.  Ice and snow

begin falling from the walls of the corridor, shaken by the pounding

Imperial snow walker as they draw ever nearer.

Imperial walkers on the north

ridge.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The Rebel troops aim their weapons at the horizon as explosions erupt

all around them.  They are nervous and their grip on their weapons

tightens from the cold and from fear.

Behind the troops a dozen snowspeeders race through the sky.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The fleet of snowspeeders races above the ice field at full throttle.

They accelerate away from the base and head toward the distant walkers.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

The cannons mounted on the walker head fire at the speeders.  Other

walkers loom in the background.  Two speeders race away past two of the

enormous walkers and bank to the right.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

He turns his speeder and heads directly at one of the walkers, flying

toward its towering legs.  The horizon twists as the speeder banks

between the legs.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two speeders race directly at the head of a walker, then split and fly

past it.

Three other walkers march onward, firing all cannons.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOWTRENCH

Rebel troops fire on the approaching walkers, as the snow and ice

explode all around them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

A speeder banks through and away from the legs of a walker.  Two other

speeders pass the first speeder from the opposite direction.  Other

Rebel craft race just above the icy plain.

A giant walker head swivels and fires, striking a snowspeeder and

sending it crashing in a ball of flames.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers and two walker pilots keep a careful eye on the racing

Rebel snowspeeders as they maneuver their lumbering war machine

forward.

Luke's speeder banks in from the side of Veers's walker and heads

straight for its viewport, blasting away.  An explosion hits the walker

window, but dissipates, doing no harm.  The speeder roars up and over

the impregnable war machine.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back at the walker as it grows smaller in the distance.

On the horizon, another walker moves up past Luke's cockpit window,

twisting out of sight as Luke banks and starts another run.

Dack is at the gunner's controls.

Barely keeping his seat in the tumbling ship, Dack struggles to set up

his harpoon gun.

Luke swings his speeder around and heads toward an oncoming walker.

Laser bolts and flak fill the air, creating a deadly obstacle course

for the tiny craft.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Rogue Leader and another snowspeeder fly in tight formation toward the

walker as explosions burst all around them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

After sustaining a heavy volley of fire, Luke turns around to see if

Dack is all right.

Dack is lost.  Blood streams down his forehead, which rests on his

smoldering controls.  Out the back window, an Imperial walker recedes

in the distance.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH AREA

Rebel troops fire the dishlike ray gun while explosions erupt around

them.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - BATTLEFIELD

Two walkers lumber toward the Rebel base as a speeder between them

explodes in a ball of flames.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The dislike ray gun is hit by a laser bolt and instantly explodes.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Through the cockpit window, Veers and his pilot can see the Rebel power

generators in the distance.

A hologram of Darth Vader appears on a control panel screen.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Wedge's speeder races through the legs of one of the monstrous walkers.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge's gunner reaches for a firing switch to activate the harpoon.

The harpoon flashes out, and speeds toward the receding legs of the

walker.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The harpoon hurtles toward the walker, In an instant it is embedded in

one of the walker's legs.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder Rogue Three races around one of the giant walker's feet,

trailing the cable behind it.  Continuing around the back foot, Rogue

Three then circles the walker around the tail end.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge checks his controls and banks around the front of the walker.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder sweeps left to right in front of the giant legs, towing the

cable behind it.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge swings the speeder between the legs of the giant walker.

EXT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE

The cable release on the back of the speeder snaps loose and the cable

drops away.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The speeder zooms away into the distance.  The tangled legs of the

enormous war machine attempt a step, but as they do the giant Imperial

walker begins to topple.  It teeters for a moment, and then crashes

onto the icy ground, sending snow and metal pieces flying.

EXT. HOTH - ICE PLAIN - SNOW TRENCH

The troops in the trenches cheer at the sight of the crashing walker.

An officer gives a signal to his men and Rebel troops charge the fallen

war machine.

The troops run toward the downed walker, followed by two Rebel speeders

flying overhead.  Just as they reach the walker, it explodes, the

impact throwing some of the men onto the frozen ground.

INT. WEDGE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE THREE - COCKPIT

Wedge lets out a triumphant yell, banking his speeder away from the

fallen walker.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Large chunks of ice tumble into the command center as Leia and General

Rieekan monitor computer screens.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Muffled distant explosions create widening cracks in the ice roof of

the hangar.  Trying to ignore the noise and falling bits of snow, Han

works on one of the Falcon's lifters while Chewie works on one of the

wings.  Noticing Chewie attach a wrong part, Han grows impatient.

In another area of the hangar, Threepio watches as Artoo is raised up

into Luke's X-wing fighter.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The fierce battle on the vast snow plains of Hoth rages on.  The

Imperial walkers continue their slow, steady assault on the Rebel base,

firing lasers as they lumber ever onward.  In the snow trench, Rebel

troops fire large bazookalike guns and dishlike ray guns as explosions

erupt around them.  A gun tower is hit by a laser bolt and instantly

explodes.  Another blast destroys a ray gun.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

General Veers studies various readouts on his control panel.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Luke's speeder and Rogue Two fly in formation, banking from right to

left and flying above the erupting battlefield.  Flak bursts all around

them.

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Luke, glancing over, sees Rogue Two on his left.  His ship shudders as

flak bursts nearby.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The two speeders race across the horizon toward the giant walkers.

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

INT.  LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

INT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO - COCKPIT

EXT. ZEV'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE TWO

Luke's speeder moves in formation with Rogue Two, when suddenly Zev's

speeder is hit by a laser bolt.  His ship bucks violently under the

impact and the cockpit explodes in a ball of flame.

Spewing smoke, the speeder hurtles toward a looming walker.  Before

they collide.  Rogue Two explodes in a million flaming pieces.

INT. LUKE'S SNOWSPEEDER, ROGUE LEADER - COCKPIT

Desperately, Luke works the controls of his flak-buffeted ship.

Suddenly, the speeder is rocked by a huge explosion.  Luke struggles

with the controls with a look of terror on his face.  The speeder fills

with smoke, and electrical sparks jump about the cockpit.

INT. REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Apart from the distant thunder of laser blasts, the corridor is

strangely quiet and empty.  Running footsteps echo through the freezing

hallway, then Han appears.  Cracks have appeared in some of the walls

and some pipes have broken, sending hot steam billowing into the

underground hallways.  Han hurries into the command center.  It is a

shambles, but some people are still at their posts.  As he enters, a

gigantic cave-in almost obliterates the room.  He finds Leia and

Threepio near one of the control boards.

Leia nods.  She is surprised to see him.

A blast rocks the command center, throwing Threepio backward into Han's

arms.

Leia looks exhausted.  Han grabs her and starts to lead her out.

As Han, Leia, and Threepio run out of the command center, the code

signal can be heard echoing off the corridor walls.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - SNOW TRENCH

Rebel troops retreat under the awesome Imperial onslaught.

Troops flee from the battle, the ground exploding around them.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Three of the giant walkers, firing lasers, advance toward the Rebel

headquarters.

EXT. HOTH - SNOW TRENCH

Continuing their retreat, the Rebels see the walkers looming ever

nearer.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD - ICE PLAIN

On the battlefield, Luke watches as a walker foot rises and moves over

him.  He looks up at the underbelly of the huge walker, passing

overhead.

Running beneath the monstrous machine, Luke fires his harpoon gun at

the walker's underside.  A thin cable follows the projectile from the

gun.  The magnetic head and cable attach firmly to the metal hull.

Still running under the walker, Luke attaches the cable drum to his

belt buckle.  Soon he is pulled up the cable and hangs dangling

underneath the walker.

The walker's giant feet continue to pound onward across the frozen

snow.  Stray laser bolts whistle by Luke as he climbs up the cable to

the walker's hull, reaching a small hatch.  Hanging precariously, Luke

cuts the solid metal hatch with his laser sword.

He takes a landmine from around his neck and throws it inside the

Imperial machine.  Quickly, Luke starts down the cable and crashes onto

the icy ground far below.  He lies unconscious as a giant rear leg

passes by - and just misses him.

The giant walker stops in mid-step.  A muffled explosion comes from

within - and then the walker's mechanical insides  are spewed out every

conceivable opening.  The machine sits dead in its tracks, smoking like

a locomotive on stilts.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

Veers's walker continues to advance toward the Rebel base.  The

smoldering walker that Luke exploded stands smoking just to the right

of Veers's path.

INT. IMPERIAL SNOW WALKER - COCKPIT

Inside his walker, General Veers prepares to fire on the Rebel power

generators.

Veers reaches for the electrorangefinder and lines up the main

generator.

EXT. HOTH - BATTLEFIELD

The Rebel troops continue their desperate retreat, pushed back by the

relentless Imperial assault.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDORS

With Threepio lagging behind, Han and Leia race through the crumbling

ice corridors.  Suddenly, there is an explosion.  Han turns, grabs the

princess, and pulls her to the wall as a tremendous cave-in blacks

their path.

He takes the comlink from his pocket.

Han and Leia turn and race down the corridor.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - COMMAND CENTER

Imperial troops have reached the base.  As they push through the

blocked passageway, Darth Vader strides behind them.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Han and Leia run toward the entrance of the main hangar where the

Millennium Falcon is docked.  Threepio still lags behind.

The door to the hangar closes in his face.

Quickly, the door reopens as Han reaches out and pulls the golden droid

through.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Chewie paces under the shelter of the Millennium Falcon's landing gear.

The giant Wookiee pats the underbelly of his beloved ship and barks a

few reassuring words.  As he searches worriedly for his captain,

something at last catches his eye.

Chewie lets out a relieved shriek at seeing Han and Leia running toward

the ship.  The Wookiee runs out into the falling ice, lets out a howl,

then runs up the ship's ramp.  Han and Leia run up the ramp after him,

closely followed by Threepio.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - ICE CORRIDOR

Imperial troops run through the base corridors.  Vader surveys the

place.  A huge chunk falls, almost hitting him, but  he calmly,

purposefully, continues around it.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGER - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A distant, huge, explosion rocks the hangar deck.  Ice cakes come

crashing down on the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD

Han, standing before a control panel, is busy flipping switches as

Chewie watches a troublesome gauge.  A worried Leia observes their

efforts.

The Wookiee barks a negative reply.

Threepio clanks into the hold.

Han gives the gold robot a devastating look.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

They move to the cockpit where Han flips some more switches.  Leia

watches him, impatient, disbelieving.

Han and Leia look out the cockpit window and see a squad of

stormtroopers rushing into the far side of the hangar.

Quickly, Han straps himself into the pilot's seat and Leia into the

navigator's chair.

INT. HOTH - REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

Stormtroopers hurriedly set up a large bazookalike weapon.  Behind them

the giant hangar doors open slowly.

EXT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON

A laser gun appears on the Falcon and swings around to aim at the

Imperial troops.

The stormtroopers, preparing to fire their bazooka cannon, are hit by

the Falcon's fire and are thrown about in all directions.

INT. MAIN HANGAR - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie rushes into the cockpit.

A laser hits the window near Chewie as he is settling into his chair.

Letting out a loud whelp, Chewie quickly pulls back on the controls and

the first stage of engine fire can be heard.  Han flashes a big grin at

Leia.

Han looks at Chewie.

The roar of the Falcon's main engines blasts out everything as the ice-

cave wall rushes by outside the cockpit window.

INT. REBEL BASE - MAIN HANGAR

More stormtroopers run into the hangar, closely followed by Vader.

Hearing the loud roar of the Millennium Falcon's engines, Vader looks

toward the main hangar doors just in time to see the Falcon lift up and

disappear outside the cave.

EXT. HOTH - ICE SLOPE - DAY

Luke and two other pilots look up as the Millennium Falcon races above

them, flying very close to the ground.

The three pilots turn then, and trudge onward toward their X-wing

fighters, each going to his own ship.  Luke waves farewell, then heads

toward his own fighter.

Artoo, seated on his cubbyhole, chirps an excited greeting as Luke

climbs aboard the spacecraft.

From his ship, Luke sees Wedge in his own X-wing, preparing for

takeoff.

Luke smiles and nods at Wedge, then lowers himself into the cockpit of

his X-wing while Artoo waits in the cubbyhole, beeping impatiently.

The canopy over the X-wing lowers and snaps shut.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's fighter, its wings closed, speeds away from the icy planet.

Soon it disappears into the stars.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke, looking thoughtful, suddenly makes a decision.  He flips several

switches.  The stars shift as he takes his fighter into a steep turn.

The X-wing banks sharply and flies away in a new direction.

The monitor screen on Luke's control panel prints out a question from

the concerned Artoo.

Artoo beeps once again.

Artoo begins a protest, whistling an unbelieving, "What?!"

Luke reads Artoo's exclamation on his control panel.

Luke checks his readouts and makes a few adjustments.  He rides along

with only the soft hum of the instruments to break the silence.

Finally, Artoo chirps up.

Artoo utters a soft, carefully phrased steam of whistles.

The little droid lets out a defeated whimper.  Luke smiles, and

continues on his course.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon speeds away from Hoth, closely followed by one

huge Star Destroyer and four tiny TIE fighters.

As it is pursued, the Falcon races toward two very bright star-sized

objects.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Inside the cockpit, Chewie lets out a loud howl.  Han checks as the

ship is buffeted by exploding flak.  He appears to be doing six things

at once.

Threepio bumps and bangs his way into the cockpit.

Chewie barks a reply as he readjusts an overhead switch.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYERS

The Millennium Falcon races toward one of the huge oncoming Star

Destroyers.  Suddenly, the Falcon starts into a deep dive straight

down, closely followed by four TIE fighters.  The underside of the Star

Destroyer continues on a collision course with two oncoming Star

Destroyers.  Slowly, it starts to veer to the left.

INT. STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Out the front window, the two approaching Star Destroyers can be seen

veering to the left.

Alarms sound all over the huge ship.  The two other Star Destroyers get

closer, one of them moving over the bridge so close that it makes

brushing contact with it.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS

The Millennium Falcon races away from the colliding Star Destroyers,

still followed by four TIE fighters.  Laser bolts spark the pitch-black

skies.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Things have calmed down a bit, but the race isn't over yet.  Chewie

barks at Han.  Leia is still trying to recover from the steep dive.

The ship is buffeted by laser blasts.

The buffeting of lasers becomes louder and stronger.

Expectantly, they look out the cockpit window as stars do not go into

hyperspace, but just sit there.

Han and Chewie look at each other and are thrown into an acute state of

concern.

Han tries again.  Still nothing.

The explosions become heavier.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - STAR DESTROYER

The Falcon races into the starry vastness, followed by the four

Imperial TIE fighters and an Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Stars race by as flak bursts outside the Falcon's window.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Han works furiously at some control panels while giving various orders

to Chewie.

Chewie hurries over to the pit and places the tools on the edge.

Suddenly, a loud thump hits the side of the Falcon, causing it to lurch

radically.  Chewie barks.  The tools fall into the pit on top of Han.

More turbulence rocks the ship.

Han climbs out of the hold like a shot.  Both he and Chewie run out of

the hold and toward the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the front cockpit window, they see hundreds of asteroids racing by.

Han changes places with Leia who has been at the controls, and Chewie

gets into his chair.  Han works his controls as a chunk of rock crosses

in front of the ship.

Another asteroid thumps against the ship and Leia winces at the jolt.

EXT. ASTEROID BELT - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Falcon turns into the asteroid storm and as the ship completes its

turn, asteroids start coming straight at the cockpit windows.

A large asteroid tumbles away from the Falcon's path at top speed.

Several smaller asteroids crash into the big one, creating small

explosions on its surface.  Other asteroids of all sizes pass by in

every direction, some colliding and exploding.  The tiny Millennium

Falcon veers around the big asteroid and races past it through the rain

of rocks, followed by four TIE fighters, which bob and weave around the

asteroids.

One of the pursuing TIE fighters connects with an asteroid and

explodes.  The other fighters are pelted with a steady stream of

smaller explosions.

Two huge asteroids tumble toward the Millennium Falcon, which quickly

banks around both of them.  The three TIE fighters follow in hot

pursuit until one of the fighters scrapes an asteroid and tumbles out

of control into deep space.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYER - ASTEROID BELT

The massive Star Destroyer blasts oncoming asteroids as it follows the

Falcon.  Smaller asteroids explode across its vast surface.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - TIE FIGHTERS - ASTEROID BELT

The Falcon twists on its side as it races around an oncoming asteroid.

Two TIE fighters follow in the distance, coming from either side.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Asteroids race by the cockpit window as Han pilots his trusty craft

through the dangerous field.

Looking out the cockpit window, the Falcon crew sees a big asteroid

drop past the window, narrowly missing their ship.

Chewie barks in terror as a slightly smaller asteroid comes especially

close - to close - and bounces off the Falcon with a loud crunch.

Threepio's hands cover his eyes.  He manages a short peek at the

cockpit window.  Princess Leia sits stone-faced, staring at the action.

Han gives her a quick look.

The group watches as more asteroids race by outside the window.

Chewbacca barks the same word, only louder.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon dives toward the surface of one of the moon-sized

asteroids.  There is a continued display of explosions against the

starry void as smaller asteroids collide with larger chunks of rock.

The two remaining TIE fighters follow the Falcon to the large asteroid.

The Falcon skims the surface of the giant asteroid as, all the while,

small asteroids explode on the surface of the ship.

The TIE fighters approach the Falcon, but a giant asteroid hurtles

directly into their path.  As the asteroid continues on its way, it

leaves remains of the two exploded TIE fighters to tumble into deep

space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Rattled by the violent rocking of the starship, Threepio is nearly in

hysterics.

Han notices something on his main scope and nudges his faithful

Wookiee, pointing.

Out the cockpit window, they see that they are skimming the surface of

the enormous asteroid and nearing a large crater.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Millennium Falcon dives into the huge crater and disappears.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

INT. GIANT ASTEROID CRATER

The Falcon races down into the crater.  The walls are barely visible as

the ship speed through the tunnellike opening.  A small cave appears on

one side of the crater, and the Falcon turns, slows, and scoots into

it.

EXT. SPACE -  LUKE'S X-WING

The tiny X-wing speeds toward the cloud cover of Dagobah.  Artoo,

riding on the back of the fighter, turns his head back and forth with

some anxiety.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke watches Artoo's words as they are translated and screened on the

computer scope.

Artoo beeps a hopeful inquiry.

Artoo beeps, this time a slightly worried question.

EXT. SPACE - DAGOBAH -  LUKE'S X-WING

The X-wing continues its flight through the twilight above the cloud-

covered planet.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke sees the cloud race by as he takes his craft closer to the planet.

He must operate his controls carefully since the cloud cover has

completely obscured his vision.  An alarm buzzes in the background,

Artoo beeps and whistles frantically.

The blast of the retrorockets is deafening, drowning out Artoo's

electronic squeals.  Suddenly, there is a cracking sound as if limbs

were being broken off trees and then a tremendous jolt as the

spacecraft stops.  Luke pulls a switch and his canopy pops open.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DUSK

The mist-shrouded X-wing fighter is almost invisible in the thick fog.

Luke climbs out onto the long nose of the spacecraft as Artoo pops out

of his cubbyhole on the back.  The young warrior surveys the fog, which

is barely pierced by the ship's landing lights.  About all he can make

out are some giant, twisted trees nearby.  Artoo whistles anxiously.

Artoo lets out a short beep.  As Luke moves along the nose, Artoo loses

his balance and disappears with a splash into the boggy lake.

Luke kneels and leans over the plane looking for Artoo, but the water

is still and reveals no sign of the little droid.

A small periscope breaks the surface of the water and a gurgly beep is

heard.  The periscope starts to move to shore.  Relieved, Luke starts

running along the nose of the fighter to its tip.

The outline of the shore is now more than ten feet away.

Luke jumps off the plane into the water, scrambles up to the shore, and

turns to look for Artoo.  The periscope still steadily moves toward

shore.

Suddenly, through the thick fog layer, a dark shape appears, moving

toward the little droid.  The dark, sinuous bog beast dives beneath the

swampy water, making a loud clunk against Artoo's metal hull.  The

droid disappears from sight, uttering a pathetic electronic scream.

Holding his ignited lightsaber before him, Luke wades a few feet into

the murky pool, looking for any sign of his little friend.

The black surface is still as death itself... until a few bubbles begin

to appear.  Then, phheewaat!! The runt-size robot is spit out of the

water, makes a graceful arc, and comes crashing down into a patch of

soft gray moss.

Luke helps Artoo to his feet and begins wiping the mud and roots from

his round metal body.  Artoo responds with feeble, soggy beeps.

As Luke glances around at the spooky swamp jungle that surrounds him,

Artoo ejects a stream of muddy water from one of his cranial ports.

EXT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

Admiral Piett hesitates in the entryway to Vader's private cubicle.

After a moment, he steps into the room and pauses at the surprising

sight before him.

Darth Vader, his back turned, is silhouetted in the gloom on the far

side of the chamber.  A black, insectlike droid attends him.  Among the

various apparatuses surrounding them, a respirator tube now retracts

from Vader's uncovered head.  The head is bald with a mass of ugly scar

tissue covering it.  The black droid then lowers the mask and helmet

onto Vader's head.  When it is in place, the Dark Lord turns to face

Piett.

Our ships have sighted the

Millennium Falcon, lord.  But...

it has entered an asteroid field

and we cannot risk...

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The pirate starship rests in a dark, dripping asteroid cave.  It is so

dark that the cave's exact dimensions are impossible to determine.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewie busily shut down the engine and all electronic systems.

Threepio and Leia watch worriedly.

Chewie barks "yes".  But Han thinks otherwise.

Suddenly, the ship lurches, causing all the loose items in the cockpit

to go flying.  Chewie howls.

The sliding door closes behind the indignant Threepio as Chewie and he

move back to the hold.  Suddenly, the ship lurches again, throwing Leia

across the cabin into Han's arms.  Then, abruptly, the motion stops as

suddenly as it started.  With some surprise, Han and Leia realize they

are in each other's arms.

Leia flushes, averting her eyes.  She's not exactly fighting to get

free.  But, of course, Han blows it...

The anger rises in Leia.

Han grins quickly wickedly at Leia as he turns and exits through the

door.  Leia's confused emotions show clearly on her lovely face.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG CLEARING - DUSK

The mist has dispersed a bit, but it is still a very gloomy-looking

swamp.

Luke pulls an equipment box from the shore to the clearing.  He ignites

a little fusion furnace and warms his hands before it.  Taking a power

cable, he plugs it into Artoo's noselike socket.

The droid whistles his appreciation.  Luke then opens a container of

processed food and sits before the thermal heater.

Nervously, he looks around at the foreboding jungle.

Luke jumps out of his skin.  Artoo screeches in terror.  The young

warrior grabs for his lightsaber as he spins around, looking for the

speaker.  Mysteriously standing right in front of Luke is a strange,

bluish creature, not more than two feet tall.  The wizened little thing

is dressed in rags.  It motions toward Luke's sword.

After some hesitation, Luke puts away his weapon, although he really

doesn't understand why.  Artoo watches with interest.

The little creature laughs.

With the aid of a walking stick, the tiny stranger moves over to one of

the cases of supplies.  He begins to rummage around.

Artoo moves to the edge of the case - standing almost eye level to the

creature who is carelessly handling the supplies - and squeaks his

disapproval.

Their tiny visitor pick up the container of food Luke was eating from

and takes a bite.

The creature spits out the bite he has taken.  He makes a face.

He flips the container in Luke's direction and reaches into one of

Luke's supply cases.

The creature spots something of interest in Luke's case.  Luke loses

patience and grabs the case away.  The creature retains his prize - a

tiny power lamp - and examines it with delight.

Clutching its treasure, the creature backs away from Luke, drawing

closer to Artoo.  As Luke and the creature argue, one of Artoo's little

arms slowly moves out toward the power lamp, completely unnoticed by

the creature.

Artoo grabs hold of the lamp and the two little figures are immediately

engaged in a tug-of-war over it.

Artoo beeps a few angry, "Give me thats."

The creature lets go with one hand and pokes Artoo lightly with one

finger.  Artoo reacts with a startled squeal, and lets go.

With that, the creature scurries out of the clearing, laughing merrily.

Luke stares after him.  All he sees is the faint light from the small

power lamp moving through the fog.  Luke makes his decision and starts

after the creature.

Artoo, very upset, whistles a blue streak of protest.

Artoo beeps even more frantically.  But as Luke disappears from view,

the worried little droid grows quieter, and utters a soft electronic

sigh.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN HOLD AREA

Threepio whistles and beeps a strange dialect into the control panel in

front of him.  The control panel whistles back a few mystifying beeps.

Han enters the hold area and kneels on the floor near the control box.

He hands a wire coil up to Chewie who is working near the ceiling.

Chewie brings his head back through the trap door in the ceiling and

whines.  Han glances back at Threepio, then speaks quietly to Chewie so

only he can hear.

Leia finishes welding the valves she has been working on and attempts

to reengage the system by pulling a lever attached to the valve.  It

doesn't budge.  Han notices her struggle, and moves to help her.  She

rebuffs him.

Han hears a new tone in her voice.  He watches her pull on the lever.

She lets go of the lever and rubs her sore hand.

With that, Han takes her hand and starts to massage it.

Leia is flushes, confused.

Han looks at her with a piercing look.  He's never looked more

handsome, more dashing, more confident.  He reaches out slowly and

takes Leia's hand again from where it is resting on a console.  He

draws it toward him.

Then with an irresistible combination of physical strength and

emotional power, the space pirate begins to draw Leia toward him...

very slowly.

Leia is now very close to Han and as she speaks, her voice becomes an

excited whisper, a tone completely in opposition to her words.

He kisses her now, with slow, hot lips.  He takes his time, as though

he had forever, bending her body backward.  She has never been kissed

like this before, and it almost makes her faint.  When he stops, she

regains her breath and tries to work up some indignation, but finds it

hard to talk.

Suddenly, Threepio appears in the doorway, speaking excitedly.

Han turns slowly, icily, from their embrace.

The moment spoiled, Han marches out after Threepio.

EXT. SPACE - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet moves through the asteroid-filled void, intently

seeking its prey.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Asteroids collide, creating a fireworks display outside the bridge

window.  Darth Vader stands, staring out the window above the control

deck.  Then slowly turns toward the bridge.  Before him are the

hologram images of twenty battleship commanders.  One of these images,

the commander of a ship that has just exploded, is fading away quickly.

Another image, in the center and a little apart from the others, is

faded and continually disrupted by static.  It is the image of Captain

Needa, commander of the Star Destroyer most hotly on the tail of the

Millennium Falcon.  Admiral Piett and an aide stand behind the Dark

Lord.

The Imperial star captains fade out one by one as Vader turns to

Admiral Piett.

Lord Vader.

The admiral is scared, his face white as a sheet.

EXT. ASTEROID FIELD - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves against the vast sea of stars

away from the rest of the fleet.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - VADER'S CHAMBER

The Dark Lord, Darth Vader, is alone in his chamber.  A strange sound

enters the room and a light begins to play across Vader's black figure.

He looks up and bows quickly.

A twelve-foot hologram of the Galactic Emperor materializes before

Vader.  The Emperor's dark robes and monk's hood are reminiscent of the

cloak worn by Ben Kenobi.  His voice is even deeper and more

frightening than Vader's.

Vader kneels.  The supreme Emperor passes a hand over the crouched Lord

of the Sith and fades away.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CREATURE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

A heavy downpour of rain pounds through the gnarled trees.  A strange

baroque mud house sits on a moss-covered knoll on the edge of a small

lagoon.  The small, gnomish structure radiates a warm glow from its

thick glass windows.  As rain tap-dances a merry tune on Artoo's head,

the stubby little droid rises up on his tip-toes to peek into one of

the glowing portals.

INT. CREATURE'S HOUSE

Artoo, peeking in the window, sees the inside of the house - a very

plain, but cozy dwelling.  Everything is in the same small scale as the

creature.  The only thing out of place in the miniature room is Luke,

whose height makes the four-foot ceiling seem even lower.  He sits

cross-legged on the floor of the living room.

The creature is in an adjoining area - his little kitchen - cooking up

an incredible meal.  The stove is a steaming hodgepodge of pots and

pans.  The wizened little host scurries about chopping this, shredding

that, and showering everything with exotic herbs and spices.  He rushes

back and forth putting platters on the table in front of Luke, who

watches the creature impatiently.

Moving with some difficulty in the cramped quarters, Luke sits down

near the fire and serves himself from the pot.  Tasting the unfamiliar

concoction, he is pleasantly surprised.

The creature turns away from Luke and speaks to a third party.

Luke's head spins in the direction the creature faces.  But there is no

one there.  The boy is bewildered, but it gradually dawns on him that

the little creature is Yoda, the Jedi Master, and that he is speaking

with Ben.

Trying to see Ben, Luke starts to get up but hits his head on the low

ceiling.

Luke looks down.  He knows it is true.

Luke thinks he detects a subtle softening in Yoda's voice.

Yoda turns his piercing gaze on Luke, as though the Jedi Master's huge

eyes could somehow determine how much the boy had learned.  After a

long moment, the little Jedi turns toward where he alone sees Ben.

EXT. SPACE - STAR DESTROYERS - ASTEROID FIELD

The Imperial fleet around Vader's ship is surrounded by the asteroid

storm.  Asteroids big and small pelt the vast exteriors of the menacing

ships.  One of the smaller Imperial vessels is hit by a huge asteroid

and explodes in a brilliant flash of light.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The cockpit is quiet and lit only by the indicator lights on the

control panel.  Princess Leia sits in the pilot's seat.

She runs her hand across the control panel as she thinks of Han and the

confusion he has created within her.  Suddenly, something outside the

cockpit window catches her eye.  The reflection of the panel lights

obscures her vision until a soft suctionlike cup attaches itself to the

windscreen.  Leia

moves closer to see what it might be.  Large, yellow eyes flash open

and stare back at her.  Startled, she jumps back into her seat, her

heart pounding.  There is a scurry of feet and a loud screech, and in

an instant the eyes are gone.  The young princess catches her breath,

jumps out of her chair, and races from the cockpit.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

The lights go bright for a second then out again.  Threepio and

Chewbacca watch as Han finishes with some wires.

Leia rushes into the cabin just as Han drops the final floor panel into

place.

As she speaks, there comes a sharp banging on the hull.  Chewie looks

up and barks anxiously.

He and Chewie grab their breath masks off a rack and hurry out.  Leia

follows.

EXT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is very dark inside the huge asteroid cave, too dark to see what is

attacking the ship.

Leia stamps her foot on the floor of the cave.

Han kneels and studies the ground, then attempts to study the outline

of the cave.

Chewie barks through his face mask, and points toward the ship's

cockpit.  A five-foot-long shape can be seen moving across the top of

the Falcon.  The leathery creature lets out a screech as Han blasts it

with a laser bolt.

The black shape tumbles off the spaceship and onto the ground in front

of the princess.  Han bends down to investigate the dead creature.

Just then, a swarm of the ugly creatures swoops through the air.  Leia

puts her arms over her head to protect herself as she runs toward the

ship.  Chewie shoos another Mynock away with his blaster.  Several of

the batlike creatures flap their wings loudly against the cockpit

window of the Falcon.  Inside, Threepio shudders at their presence.

Han looks around the strange, dripping cave.

He unholsters his blaster and fires at the far side of the huge cave.

The cavern begins to shake and the ground starts to buckle.

Chewie barks and moves for the ship, followed closely by Leia and Han.

The large wings of the Mynocks flap past them as they protect their

faces and run up the platform.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ENTRY AREA

As soon as Han and Leia are on board, Chewie closes the main hatch.

The ship continues to shake and heave.

The Wookiee heads for the cockpit as Han, followed by Threepio, rushes

to the hold area and checks the scopes on the control panel.  Leia

hurries after.

Han rushes past her and heads for the cockpit.

And with that he is gone.  The main engines of the Falcon begin to

whine.  Leia races after him, bouncing around in the shaking ship.

INT. ASTEROID CAVE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han is already in the pilot's seat pulling back on the throttle.  The

cave-quake has greatly diminished.

As the ship begins to move forward, Chewie barks.  He notices something

out the window ahead.  Threepio sees it too.

Suddenly, a row of jagged white stalagmites and stalactites can be seen

surrounding the entrance.  And as the Falcon moves forward, the

entrance to the cave grows ever smaller.  Han pulls hard on the

throttle, sending his ship surging forward.

Leia's mouth drops open .  She sees that the rocks of the cave entrance

are not rocks at all, but giant teeth, quickly closing around the tiny

ship.  Chewie howls.

INT. SPACE SLUG MOUTH

The Millennium Falcon, zooming through the monster's mouth, rolls on

its side and barely makes it between two of the gigantic white teeth

before the huge jaws slams closed.

EXT. CAVE ENTRANCE - GIANT ASTEROID

The enormous space slug moves its head out of the cave as the Falcon

flies out of its mouth.  The monster tilts its head, watching the

starship fly away.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GIANT ASTEROID

The Falcon races out of the asteroid crater and into the deadly rain of

the asteroid storm.

EXT. DAGOBAH - DAY

With Yoda strapped to his back, Luke climbs up one of the many thick

vines that grow in the swamp.  Panting heavily, he continues his course

- climbing, flipping through the air, jumping over roots, and racing in

and out of the heavy ground fog.

Artoo beeps in the distance as Luke lets Yoda down to the ground.

Breathing heavily, he takes his shirt from a nearby tree branch and

pulls it on.

He turns to see a huge, dead, black tree, its base surrounded by a few

feet of water.  Giant, twisted roots form a dark and sinister cave on

one side.  Luke stares at the tree, trembling.

Yoda sits on a large root, poking his Gimer Stick into the dirt.

Luke looks warily between the tree and Yoda.  He starts to strap on his

weapon belt.

Luke gives the tree a long look, than shakes his head "no."  Yoda

shrugs.  Luke reaches up to brush aside some hanging vines and enters

the tree.

INT. DAGOBAH - TREE CAVE

Luke moves into the almost total darkness of the wet and slimy cave.

The youth can barely make out the edge of the passage.  Holding his lit

saber before him, he sees a lizard crawling up the side of the cave and

a snake wrapped around the branches of a tree.  Luke draws a deep

breath, then pushes deeper into the cave.

The space widens around him, but he feels that rather than sees it.

His sword casts the only light as he peers into the darkness.  It is

very quiet here.

Then, a loud HISS! Darth Vader appears across the blackness,

illuminated by his own just-ignited laser sword.  Immediately, he

charges Luke, saber held high.  He is upon the youth in seconds, but

Luke sidesteps perfectly and slashes at Vader with his sword.

Vader is decapitated.  His helmet-encased head flies from his shoulders

as his body disappears into the darkness.  The metallic banging of the

helmet fills the cave as Vader's head spins and bounces, smashes on the

floor, and finally stops. For an instant it rests on the floor, then it

cracks vertically.  The black helmet and breath mask fall away to

reveal... Luke's head.

Across the space, the standing Luke gasps at the sight, wide-eyed in

terror.

The decapitated head fades away, as in a vision.

EXT. DAGOBAH - CAVE - DUSK

Meanwhile, Yoda sits on the root, calmly leaning on his Gimer Stick.

EXT. SPACE - VADER'S STAR DESTROYER

Vader's Imperial Star Destroyer moves through space, guarded by its

convoy of TIE fighters.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE - CONTROL DECK

Vader stands in the back control area of his ship's bridge with a

motley group of men and creatures.  Admiral Piett and two controllers

stand at the front of the bridge and watch the group with scorn.

A second controller interrupts.

The group standing before Vader is a bizarre array of galactic fortune

hunters  There is Bossk, a slimy, tentacled monster with two huge,

bloodshot eyes in a soft baggy face; Zuckuss and Dengar, two battle-

scarred, mangy human types; IG-88, a battered, tarnished chrome war

droid; and Boba Fett, a man in a weapon-covered armored space suit.

At that moment, Admiral Piett approaches Vader in a rush of excitement.

EXT. IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID BELT

The Millennium Falcon speeds through deep space, closely followed by a

firing Imperial Star Destroyer.  A large asteroid about the same size

as the Falcon tumbles rapidly toward the starship.  The tiny Falcon

banks to avoid the giant asteroid as smaller rocks pelt its surface.

Then the small craft roars under the asteroid which explodes harmlessly

on the hull of the vast Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as flak explodes near the cockpit window.  Threepio

checks a tracking scope an the side control panel while Leia watches

tensely out the window.

Chewie barks excitedly as the rain of asteroids begins to subside.  A

bolt from the Star Destroyer sets up a fiery explosion on the back side

of the Falcon, causing it to lurch to one side.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon is hit hard by another bolt from the Star Destroyer which

creates a huge explosion near the cockpit of the smaller ship.  The

Falcon tilts steeply, then rights itself.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han corrects the angle of his ship.

Han pulls back on the hyperspace throttle and - nothing happens.  Flak

bursts continue to rock the ship.

Chewie is very angry and starts to growl and bark at his friend and

captain.  Again, Han desperately pulls back on the throttle.

Chewie puts his head in his hands, whining.

Han pauses for a moment, makes a decision, and pulls back on a lever.

Chewie barks in puzzlement.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON - ASTEROID FIELD

The Falcon banks, makes a steep, twisting turn.  In the next moment it

is racing toward the Star Destroyer, looking very small against the

massive surface of the Imperial ship.  As it moves across the surface

of the Star Destroyer, the Falcon bobs and weaves to avoid the numerous

flak bursts.

INT. STAR DESTROYER, AVENGER - BRIDGE

The tiny Falcon heads directly for the Avenger's bridge.  The Imperials

stationed there are stunned to see the small spaceship racing low

across the hull, headed directly at the huge windows of the bridge

area.  Alarms go off everywhere.  The Destroyer's commander, Captain

Needa, can scarcely believe his eyes.

Needa and his men duck as the Falcon nears the bridge window.  At the

last minute, the Falcon veers off and out of sight.  All is quiet.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DAY

Luke's face is upside-down and showing enormous strain.  He stands on

his hands, with Yoda perched on his feet.  Opposite Luke and Yoda are

two rocks the size of bowling balls.  Luke stares at the rocks and

concentrates.  One of the rocks lifts from the ground and floats up to

rest on the other.

Yoda taps Luke's leg.  Quickly, Luke lifts one hand from the ground.

His body wavers, but he maintains his balance.  Artoo, standing nearby,

is whistling and beeping frantically.

Luke concentrates on trying to lift the top rock.  It rises a few feet,

shaking under the strain.  But, distracted by Artoo's frantic beeping,

Luke loses his balance and finally collapses.  Yoda jumps clear.

Annoyed at the disturbance, Luke looks over at Artoo, who is rocking

urgently back and forth in front of him.

Artoo waddles closer to Luke, chirping wildly, then scoots over the

edge of the swamp.  Catching on, Luke rushes to the water's edge.  The

X-wing fighter has sunk, and only the tip of its nose shows above the

lake's surface.

Yoda stamps his foot in irritation.

Luke looks uncertainly out at the ship.

Luke closes his eyes and concentrates on thinking the ship out.

Slowly, the X-wing's nose begins to rise above the water.  It hovers

for a moment and then slides back, disappearing once again.

Luke shakes his head.

Quietly Yoda turns toward the X-wing fighter.  With his eyes closed and

his head bowed, he raises his arm and points at the ship.

Soon, the fighter rises above the water and moves forward as Artoo

beeps in terror and scoots away.

The entire X-wing moves majestically, surely, toward the shore.  Yoda

stands on a tree root and guides the fighter carefully down toward the

beach.

Luke stares in astonishment as the fighter settles down onto the shore.

He walks toward Yoda.

Luke shakes his head, bewildered.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

The fleet around Vader's Star Destroyer now includes Needa's Star

Destroyer, the Avenger.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Clutching desperately at his throat, Captain Needa slumps down, then

falls over on his back, at the feet of Darth Vader.  Two stormtroopers

pick up the lifeless body and carry it quickly away as Admiral Piett

and two of his captains hurry up to the Dark Lord.

Vader exits as the admiral turns to an aide, a little more uneasy than

when he arrived.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL FLEET

Vader's ship moves away, flanked by its fleet of smaller ships.  the

Avenger glides off into space in the opposite direction.  No one on

that ship or on Vader's is aware that, clinging to the side of the

Avenger, is the pirateship, the Millennium Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie barks, struggles from his seat, and climbs out of the cabin.

Leia reaches over and shuts off Threepio, mid-sentence.

He points to a computer mapscreen on the control panel.  Leia slips out

of her chair and moves next to the handsome pilot.  Small light points

representing several systems flash by on the computer screen.

Chewie barks over the intercom.  Han quickly changes his readouts and

stretches to look out the cockpit window.

Han leans back in his chair and gives Leia an invisible smile.  She

thinks for a moment, shakes her head; a grin creeps across her face and

she gives him a quick kiss.

EXT. SPACE - IMPERIAL STAR DESTROYER

As the Avenger Star Destroyer moves slowly into space, the hatch on its

underbelly opens, sending a trail of junk behind it.  Hidden among the

refuse, the Falcon tumbles away.  In the next moment, the Avenger roars

off into hyperspace.  The Falcon's engines are ignited, and it races

off into the distance.  Amidst the slowly drifting junk, Boba Fett's

ship appears and moves after the Falcon.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - CLEARING - DAY

In the clearing behind Yoda's house, Luke again stands upside-down, but

his face shows less strain and more concentration than before.  Yoda

sits on the ground below the young warrior.  On the other side of the

clearing, two equipment cases slowly rise into the air.  Nearby Artoo

watches, humming to himself, when suddenly he, too, rises into the air.

His little legs kick desperately and his head turns frantically,

looking for help.

Luke suddenly becomes distressed.

The two packing boxes and Artoo fall to the ground with a crash, then

Luke himself tumbles over.

It is the future you see.

Yoda closes his eyes and lowers his head.

Luke is stopped cold by Yoda's words.  Gloom shrouds him as he nods his

head sadly.

EXT. BESPIN SYSTEM - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DAWN

The powerful pirate starship blasts through space as it heads toward

the soft pink planet of Bespin.

EXT. BESPIN SURFACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

It is down on the gaseous planet.  Huge billowing clouds form a canyon

as the ship banks around them, heading toward the system's Cloud City.

Suddenly, two twin-pod cloud cars appear and move toward the Falcon.

The cloud cars draw up alongside the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

One of the cloud cars opens fire on the Falcon, its flak rocking the

ship.  Chewie barks his concern.

More flak bursts outside the cockpit window and rattles the ship's

interior.  Leia looks worried.

Chewie barks and growls at his boss.

Angry, Han snaps off the intercom.  Chewie looks at him and grunts.

Han turns to the worried princess and her droid.

Leia doesn't look convinced.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - CLOUD CARS

The clouds part to reveal a full view of the city as it bobs in and out

of the cloud surface.  The cloud cars and the Falcon head for the

gleaming white metropolis.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - MILLENNIUM FALCON

With the cloud cars still guarding it, the Falcon lands on one of the

Cloud City's platforms.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Han and Leia stand at the open door, armed.  Behind them, Chewie, also

armed, surveys the scene warily.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Lando Calrissian, a suave, dashing black man in his thirties, leads a

group of aides and some Cloud City guard rapidly toward the landing

platform.

The group, like the other citizens of the city, is a motley collection

of aliens, droids, and humans of all descriptions.  Lando has a grim

expression on his face as he moves onto the landing platform.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON

Chewie growls as Han walks down the ramp.  Lando and his men head

across the bridge to meet the space pirate.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Lando stops ten feet from Han.  The two men eye each other carefully.

Lando shakes his head.

Han points to himself innocently, mouthing, "Me?"

Lando moves threateningly toward Han.  Suddenly, he throws his arms

around his startled, long-lost friend and embraces him.

The two old friends embrace, laughing and chuckling.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - DOOR OF MILLENNIUM FALCON.

Well, he seems very friendly.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Chewie growls a reserved greeting.  Lando suddenly notices the princess

and smiles.

Lando bows before Leia and kisses her hand.

Han takes Leia by the hand and steers her away from Lando.

Before Threepio can finish his self-introduction, Lando has turned to

follow Han and Leia, who are walking toward the city.

Lando, his aide, Lobot, and Han lead the way across the bridge,

followed by Threepio, Chewie and Leia.

Lando turns to Leia.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

The group has crossed the narrow bridge and entered the city.  They

walk down the lovely Art Deco passageway, rounding several corners and

passing many small plazas as they go.  Threepio lags a bit behind.

Lando is reflective.  He looks at Han a moment.

Han and Lando laugh together, and the group moves on through the

corridor.

The lagging Threepio passes a Threepio-type silver droid who is coming

out of a door.

Threepio stops, watching the silver droid move away.  Then he hears the

muffled beeping and whistling of an R2 unit coming from within the

room.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Curious, Threepio enters the room.

Threepio walks through the doorway to the main room.  He looks in.

A laser bolt to Threepio's chest sends him flying in twenty directions.

Smoldering mechanical arms and legs bounce off the walls as the door

whooshes closed behind him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Han, and Leia continue down the corridor unaware of Threepio's

dreadful accident.  Chewbacca glances around, sniffs the air, but

shrugs his shoulders and follows the group.

EXT. DAGOBAH - BOG - DUSK

In the bright lights of the fighter, Luke loads a heavy case into the

belly of the ship.  Artoo sits on top of the X-wing, settling down into

his cubbyhole.  Yoda stands nearby on a log.

Luke looks toward the voice in amazement.  Ben has materialized as a

real, slightly shimmering image near Yoda.  The power of his presence

stops Luke.

Luke is in great anguish.  He struggles with the dilemma, a battle

raging in his mind.

Artoo whistles a happy reply.

Luke nods and climbs into his ship.

Artoo closes the cockpit.  Ben and Yoda stand watching as the roar of

the engines and the wind engulf them.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET DAGOBAH

Luke's tiny X-wing rockets away from the green planet of Dagobah and

off into space.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

Within the quarters assigned her on Cloud City, Leia paces in

agitation.  She has changed from her cold-weather pants and jacket to a

lovely dress.  Her hair is down, tied back with ribbons.  She moves

from a large, open window and turns to see Han entering through the

doorway.

Han takes Leia by the shoulders and gently kisses her forehead.

Not speaking, Han considers her words and gazes at her troubled face.

INT. CLOUD CITY - JUNK ROOM

The room is piled high with broken and discarded machine parts.  Four

Ugnaughts, small hoglike creatures, separate the junk and throw some

pieces onto a conveyer belt which moves briskly toward a pit of molten

metal.  Pieces of Threepio's golden body move down the belt.  Chewie

enters the room and spots an Ugnaught picking up and inspecting

Threepio's head.  The Wookiee barks a command, startling the Ugnaught,

then reaches to grab the head.  But the Ugnaught tosses it away from

him to another Ugnaught.  This game of keep-away goes on until

Threepio's head falls from their grip and bounces with a clang onto the

ground.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LIVING QUARTERS - DAY

The door zaps open.  Chewbacca walks in, carrying a packing case of

Threepio, arms and legs hanging over the edge.

Chewie sets the case on a table, grunting and groaning an explanation.

The giant Wookiee studies the array of robot parts.  He looks at the

princess and shrugs sadly.

There is a buzz and the door slides open, revealing Lando.

Han looks at Lando suspiciously, but Chewie barks at the mention of

food and licks his lips.

Leia takes Lando's proffered arm, and the group turns to go.  Lando

spots Threepio's remains.

Han and Leia exchange a quick glance.

Han and Leia move arm-in-arm through the door, followed by Lando and

Chewie.  The door slides closed behind them.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

Leia walks between Han and Lando as Chewie follows a short distance

behind.  Long shafts of light pour across the corridor between tall,

pure-white columns.

The group walks into another corridor and heads for a huge doorway at

the far end.

INT. CLOUD CITY - DINING ROOM

The mighty doors to the dining room slide open and the group enters the

dining room.  At the far end of a huge banquet table sits Darth Vader.

Standing at his side and slightly behind him is Boba Fett, the bounty

hunter.

Faster than the wink of an eye, Han draws his blaster and pops off a

couple of shots directly at Vader.  The Dark Lord quickly raises his

hand, deflecting the bolts into one of the side walls, where they

explode harmlessly.  Just as quickly, Han's weapon zips into Vader's

hand.  The evil presence calmly places the gun on the table in front of

him.

Han gives Lando a mean look.

right before you did.  I'm sorry.

EXT.  LUKE'S X-WING - BESPIN SYSTEM

Luke's X-wing races through thick clouds toward Cloud City.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke is grim-faced as he pilots his course toward Bespin's shining

city.  Artoo's beeps and whistles are transmitted onto the scope.

Artoo whistles another worried inquiry.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewbacca is in a Cloud City prison cell.  The stark room is flooded

with hot light.  To add to Chewie's misery, a high-pitched whistle

screeches loudly.  Chewie is going mad.  He hits the wall with giant

fists as he paces back and forth across the cell floor.  The upper

lights go off abruptly.  The prisoner rubs his eyes and moves to a

wall, where he listens for a moment.  Then, moaning to himself, he

moves to a platform where the disassembled pieces of Threepio lie.  He

picks up the golden droid's head and meditates on it for a moment,

barking a few philosophical remarks.  Chewie sticks the robot's head on

its torso and starts adjusting wires and circuits.

Suddenly, the lights in Threepio's eyes spark to life as Chewie touches

two connectors together.  Threepio immediately begins to speak, but his

voice is so slow and so low as to be nearly unintelligible.

Chewie looks at Threepio in bewilderment, then scratches his furry

head.  He gets an idea and adjusts some connections, whereupon Threepio

immediately begins speaking normally.

INT. CLOUD CITY - PRISON ENTRY AREA

Darth Vader strides through the room as two stormtroopers prepare an

elaborate torture mechanism.  Han is strapped to a rack which tilts

forward onto the torture device.  Vader activates the mechanism,

creating two bursts of sparks, one of which strikes Han's face.

The door opens, and Vader leaves the torture room just as Han screams a

sharp, piercing cry of agony.  Darth Vader moves to the holding

chamber, where Lando and Boba Fett await him.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HOLDING CHAMBER

Han's screams filter through the torture room door.

Vader turns and sweeps into the elevator with Boba Fett.  Lando walks

swiftly down another corridor, muttering to himself.

INT. CLOUD CITY - LARGE CELL

Chewie now has a little more of Threepio back together.  One arm is

connected, but the legs are yet to be attached.  There is one small

problem, however.  It seems the Wookiee has managed to put the droid's

head on backwards.

Threepio is cut off in mid-sentence as Chewie angrily deactivates a

circuit and the droid shuts down.  The Wookiee smells something and

sits up.  The door to the chamber slides open and a ragged Han Solo is

shoved into the room by two stormtroopers.  Barking his concern, the

huge Wookiee gives Han a big hug.  Han is very pale, with dark circles

under his eyes.

Chewie helps Han to a platform and then turns as the door slides open

revealing Leia.  She, too, looks a little worse for wear.  The troopers

push her into the cell, and the door slides closed.  She moves to Han,

who is lying on the platform, and kneels next to him, gently stroking

his head.

The cell door slides open.  Lando and two of his guards enter.

Leia's mind is racing.

Han's rage peaks.

Han hauls off and punches Lando.  The two friends are instantly engaged

in a frantic close-quarters fight.  The guards hit Han with their rifle

butts and he flies across the room.  Chewie growls and starts for the

guards.  They point their laser weapons at the giant Wookiee, but Lando

stops them.

Lando and the guards leave.  Han wipes the blood from his chin as Leia

and Chewie help him up.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Four armor-suited stormtroopers stand at the ready in the large

chamber, which is filled with pipes and chemical tanks.  In the middle

of the room is a round pit housing a hydraulic platform.  Darth Vader

and Lando stand near the platform.

An Imperial soldier appears.

The soldier bows and leaves the chamber.

Lando's face registers dismay.

EXT. SPACE - BESPIN SYSTEM -  LUKE'S X-WING

Luke's X-wing moves through the clouds as it nears the city.

INT.  LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Encountering no city guards, Luke scans the display panel with concern.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

There is a great activity on the carbon-freezing platform.  Six

Ugnaughts frantically prepare the chamber for use.  A special

coffinlike container is put in place.  With Boba Fett in the lead, a

squad of six stormtroopers brings in Han, Leia and Chewie.  Strapped to

Chewie's back, with only his head, torso, and one arm assembled, is

Threepio.  Threepio's head faces the opposite direction from Chewie's

and the droid is constantly twisting around in a vain effort to see

what is happening.  His one attached arm is animate and expressive,

intermittently pointing, gesturing, and covering his eyes.  The

remaining pieces of his body are randomly bundled to the Wookiee's back

so that his legs and other arm stick out at odd angles from the pack.

Boba Fett moves away from the group to Darth Vader.

Realizing what is about to happen, Chewie lets out a wild howl and

attacks the stormtroopers surrounding Han.  Within seconds, other

Imperial reinforcements join the scuffle, clubbing the giant Wookiee

with their laser weapons.

From the instant of Chewie's first move, Threepio begins to scream in

panic while he tries to protect himself with his one arm.

The stormtroopers are about to bash Chewie in the face.

Han breaks away from his captors.  Vader nods to the guards to let him

go and the pirate breaks up the fight.

Han gives the Wookiee a stern look.

Han winks at the Wookiee, who wails a doleful farewell.

In a flash the guards have slipped binders on Chewbacca, who is too

distraught to protest.  Han turns to Princess Leia.  They look

sorrowfully at one another, then Han moves toward her and gives her a

final, passionate kiss.

Tears roll down Leia's face as she watches the dashing pirate walk to

the hydraulic platform.  Han looks one final time at his friends - and

then, suddenly, the platform drops.  Chewie howls.  Leia turns away in

agony.

Lando winces in sorrow; it makes a life-changing impression on him.

Instantly, fiery liquid begins to pour down in a shower of sparks and

fluid as great as any steel furnace.  Holding Leia, Chewie half-turns

away from the sight, giving Threepio a view of the procedure.

Chewie is in no mood for technical discussion; he gives the droid an

angry glance and bark.

A huge mechanical tong lifts the steaming metal-encased space pirate

out of the vat and stands him on the platform.  Some Ugnaughts rush

over and push the block over onto the platform.  They slide the

coffinlike structure to the block and lift the metal block, placing it

inside.  They then attach an electronic box onto the structure and step

away.  Lando kneels and adjusts some knobs, measuring the heat.  He

shakes his head in relief.

Vader turns to Boba Fett.

Lando's hand instinctively goes to his throat as he turns to Leia,

Chewie, and Threepio.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR - DAY

As Luke and Artoo move carefully down a deserted corridor, they hear a

group of people coming down a side hallway.  Artoo lets out an excited

series of beeps and whistles.  Luke glares at the tiny droid, who stops

in his tracks with a feeble squeak.

Boba Fett enters from a side hallway followed by two guards pushing the

floating, encased body of Han Solo.  Two stormtroopers, who follow,

immediately spot Luke and open fire on him.  The youth draws his weapon

and blasts the two troopers before they can get off a second shot.  The

two guards whisk Han into another hallway as Fett lowers his arm and

fires a deadly laser at Luke, which explodes to one side and tears up a

huge chunk of wall.

Luke rushes to a side hallway, but by the time he reaches it, Fett,

Han, and the guards are gone.  A think metal door blocks the passage.

Luke turns to see Leia, Chewie, Threepio, and Lando being herded down a

second hallway by several other stormtroopers.  Leia turns just in time

to see Luke.

Before she can finish, she is pulled through a doorway and disappears

from sight.  Luke races after the group, leaving little Artoo trailing

behind.

INT. CLOUD CITY - ANTEROOM

Luke runs into an anteroom and stops to get his bearings.  Leia and the

others are nowhere to be seen.  Behind Luke, Artoo scoots down the

corridor toward the anteroom when suddenly a giant metal door comes

slamming down, cutting off Luke's exit.  Several more doors clang shut,

echoing through the chamber.

INT. CLOUD CITY - HALLWAY LEADING TO ANTEROOM

Artoo stands with his nose pressed against the giant metal door.  He

whistles a long sigh of relief and, a little dazed, wanders off in the

other direction.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER - ANTEROOM

Luke cautiously walks forward among hissing pipes and steam.  Seeing an

opening above him, he stops to look up.  As he does, the platform he

stands on begins to move.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke rises into the chamber, borne by the platform.  The room is

deathly quiet.  Very little steam escapes the pipes and no one else

seems to be in the large room.  Warily, Luke walks toward the stairway.

Steam begins to build up in the chamber.  Looking up through the steam,

Luke sees a dark figure standing on a walkway above him.  Luke holsters

his gun and moves up the stairs to face Vader.  He feels confident,

eager to engage his enemy.

Luke ignites his sword in answer.  In an instant, Vader's own sword is

lit.  Luke lunges, but Vader repels the blow.  Again Luke attacks, and

the swords of the two combatants clash in battle.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Leia, Lando, and Chewie, with Threepio on his back, march along,

guarded by six stormtroopers.  The group reaches an intersection where

Lobot and a dozen of Lando's guards stand at attention.

The guards immediately aim their weapons at the startled stormtroopers.

Taking the stormtroopers' weapons from them, Lobot hands one to Leia

and one to Lando.

As Lando's guards quickly march the stormtroopers away, Lando begins to

undo Chewie's binding.

Chewie turns on Lando and starts to choke him.

Lando tries to free himself from Chewie.

Chewie barks ferociously.

Chewie finally releases Lando, who fights to get his breath back.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - EAST LANDING PLATFORM - BOBA FETT'S SHIP

The two guards slide Han's encased body into an opening in the side of

the bounty hunter's ship.  Boba Fett climb aboard on a ladder next to

the cargo hold.

And with that, the door slams shut.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

Lando, Leia, and Chewie run down a Cloud City corridor when suddenly

they spot Artoo who rushes toward them, beeping wildly.

Chewie turns around to see the stubby droid, causing Threepio to be

spun out of sight of his friend.

Whistling frantically to Threepio, Artoo scoots along with the racing

group.

EXT. EAST LANDING PLATFORM - SIDE BAY

An elevator door slides open and Lando, Leia, and Chewbacca race for a

large bay overlooking the East Landing Platform.

Just as they arrive, Boba Fett's ship takes off against a cloudy sunset

sky.

In wild anguish, Chewie howls and starts firing at the ship.

A laser bolt explodes near the princess.  Everyone turns to see what

Threepio has already spotted coming from the other direction; a squad

of stormtroopers running toward them.  Artoo peeks out from the

elevator.

Leia and Chewbacca start firing at the troopers as Lando makes a break

for the elevator.  Laser bolts continue to explode around the princess

and the Wookiee, but they refuse to budge.  Lando sticks his head out

of the elevator and motions for the pair to run, but they barely

notice.  They seem possessed, transported, as all the frustration of

captivity and anger of loss pour through their death-dealing weapons.

But after a few moments, they begin to move through the rain of laser

fire toward the elevator.  Once they are inside, the door slams shut

and the stormtroopers race forward.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CARBON-FREEZING CHAMBER

Luke and Vader are locked in combat on the platform overlooking the

chamber.  Their swords clash, the platform sways.  Luke aggressively

drives Vader back, forcing Vader to use defensive tactics.

Vader makes two quick moves, hooking Luke's sword out of his hand and

sending it flying.  Another lightning move at Luke's feet forces the

youth to jump back to protect himself.  Losing his balance, Luke rolls

down the stairs to the circular carbon-freezing platform.  There he

sprawls on the floor, surprised and shaken.  Just in time he looks up

to see Vader, like a giant black bird, flying right at him.  Luke rolls

away as Vader lands.  Crouching, Luke keeps his gaze steadily on his

enemy.

Behind Luke the hydraulic elevator cover has opened noiselessly.  All

the while, Luke slowly, cautiously moves back, away from the Dark Lord.

Suddenly, Vader attacks so forcefully that Luke loses his balance and

falls back into the opening.  There is a rumble, and in an instant

freezing steam rises to obscure Vader's vision.   Vader turns aside and

deactivates his sword.

Through the steam behind Vader something blurs upward.  Liquid metal

begins to pour into the pit.

Vader turns around - and then looks up.  He sees Luke, who has leaped

fifteen feet straight up and who now hangs from some hoses on the

carbonite outlet.

Luke jumps down to the platform where he is separated from Vader by the

steaming carbonite pit.  He raises his hand.  His sword, which had

fallen on another part of the platform, swiftly jumps into his

outstretched hand and is instantly ignited.  Vader immediately lights

his sword as well.

Luke is more cautious, controlling his anger.  He begins to retreat as

Vader goads him on.  As Luke takes a defensive position, he realizes he

has been foolhardy.  A quick sword exchange and Luke forces Vader back.

Another exchange and Vader retreats.  Luke presses forward.

Breathing hard, Luke jumps in the air, turning a somersault over Vader.

He lands on the floor and slashes at Vader as the room continues to

fill up with steam.

Vader retreats before Luke's skillful sword.  Vader blocks the sword,

but looses his balance and falls into the outer rim of pipes.  The

energy Luke has used to stop Vader has brought him to the point of

collapse.  Luke moves to the edge and looks down, but sees no sign of

Vader.  He then deactivates his sword, hooks it on his belt, and lowers

himself into the pit.

INT. CLOUD CITY - TUNNEL AND REACTOR CONTROL ROOM

Moving through a tunnellike entrance, Luke cautiously approaches the

reactor room.  He ignites his sword and moves into the room and toward

a large window as Vader enters.

Luke raises his sword and moves forward to attack.

Behind Luke a large piece of machinery detaches itself from the wall

and comes smashing forward toward his back.  Luke turns and cuts it in

half just as another machine comes hurtling at him.  Using the Force,

Luke manages to deflect it and send it flying as if it had hit an

invisible shield.

A large pipe detaches and comes flying at Luke.  He deflects it.

Sparking wires pull out of the wall and begin to whip at the youth.

Small tools and equipment come flying at him.  Bombardment from all

sides, Luke does his best to deflect everything, but soon he is

bloodied and bruised.  Finally, one machine glances off his and goes

flying out the large window.  A fierce wind blows into the room,

unmoving, stands the dark, rocklike figure of Vader.

A piece of machinery hits Luke and he is knocked out of the window.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke falls onto the gantry, rolls, and hangs over the edge, holding his

deactivated sword in hand.  He puts the sword on his belt and begins to

scramble up.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR LEADING TO LANDING PLATFORM

Leia, Lando, Chewie and the droids come round a corner and head for the

door to the landing platform.  They glimpse the Millennium Falcon for a

moment before the door slams shut.  The group ducks into an alcove as

stormtroopers arrive at the end of the corridor.  The troopers send a

rain of laser bolts at the group.  Chewie returns their fire as Lando

punches desperately at the door's control panel.

Threepio points to a computer socket on the control panel.  Artoo beeps

and scoots toward it.  Lando meanwhile has connected up to the panel's

intercom.

Artoo takes off a computer cover and sticks his computer arm into the

socket.  Suddenly, a short beep turns into a wild scream.  Artoo's

circuits light up, his head spins wildly, and smoke begins to seep out

underneath him.  Quickly, Chewie pulls him away.

Lando, Leia, Artoo, and Chewie flee down the corridor.  As he scoots

along with them, Artoo sends some angry beeps Threepio's way.

INT. CLOUD CITY - CORRIDOR

In a panic, Cloud City residents are trying to get out of the city.

Some carry boxes, others packages.  They run, then change direction.

Some are shooting at stormtroopers, others simply try to hide.

Other stormtroopers pursue Lando, Leia, and Chewie who are firing back

at them.  Artoo works on another door to the landing platform while

Threepio berates him for his seeming ineptitude.

Chewie, Leia, and Lando retreat along the corridor.  A triumphant beep

from Artoo - and the door snaps open.

Artoo lays a cloud fog, obscuring everything, as the group dashes

outside.

EXT. LANDING PLATFORM - CLOUD CITY - DUSK

They race for the Millennium Falcon as a battalion of stormtroopers

reaches the main door.  Lando and Leia hold off the troops as the

droids get on board with Chewie.  As Chewie bounds to the ship the

Threepio on his back, Threepio hits his head on the top of the ramp.

Chewie starts up the ship.  The giant engines begin to whine as Lando

and Leia race up the ramp under a hail of laser fire.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CORRIDOR

Artoo drags the partially assembled Threepio down the corridor of the

Falcon.

Artoo beeps understandingly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Chewie works the controls as Leia sits in Han's seat and Lando watches

over their shoulders.  As Chewie pulls back on the throttle, the ship

begins to move.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM - DUSK

The Millennium Falcon lifts gracefully into the twilight sky and roars

away from the city.  Troops fire after it and TIE fighters take off in

pursuit.

INT. GANTRY - OUTSIDE CONTROL ROOM - REACTOR SHAFT

Luke moves along the railing and up to the control room.

Vader lunges at him and Luke immediately raises his lit sword to meet

Vader's.  Sparks fly as they duel, Vader gradually forcing Luke

backward toward the gantry.

Luke answers by rolling sideways and thrusting his sword at Vader so

viciously that he nicks Vader on the shoulder.  The black armor sparks

and smokes and Vader seems to be hurt, but immediately recovers.

Luke backs off along the narrow end of the gantry as Vader comes at

him, slashing at the young Jedi with his sword.  Luke makes a quick

move around the instrument complex attached to the end of the gantry.

Vader's sword comes slashing down, cutting the complex loose; it begins

to fall, then is caught by the rising wind and blown upward.

Luke glances at the instrument complex floating away.  At that instant,

Vader's sword comes down across Luke's right forearm, cutting off his

hand and sending his sword flying.  In great pain, Luke squeezes his

forearm under his left armpit and moves back along the gantry to its

extreme end.  Vader

follows.  The wind subsides.  Luke holds on.  There is nowhere else to

go.

Shocked, Luke looks at Vader in utter disbelief.

Vader puts away his sword and holds his hand out to Luke.

A calm comes over Luke, and he makes a decision.  In the next instant

he steps off the gantry platform into space.  The Dark Lord looks over

the platform and sees Luke falling far below.  The wind begins to blow

at Vader's cape and the torrent finally forces him back, away from the

edge.  The wind soon fades and the wounded Jedi begins to drop fast,

unable to grab onto anything to break his fall.

INT. REACTOR SHAFT

Suddenly Luke is sucked into an exhaust pipe in the side of the shaft.

When Vader sees this, he turns and hurries off the platform.

INT. EXHAUST PIPE

Luke tumbles through the exhaust pipe.

He slides to the end of the slickly polished pipe and stops as his feet

hit a circular grill and knock it open.  Luke claws at the surface of

the pipe, trying to keep from sliding out into space.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE - DUSK

Unable to hang onto the pipe, Luke tumbles out, emerging at the

undermost part of Cloud City.  Reaching out desperately, he manages to

grab onto on electronic weather vane.

Luke tries to pull himself up on the weather vane but slips back down.

He hooks one of his legs around the fragile instruments.  All the

while, a powerful current of air rushes out at him from the exhaust

pipe.

There is an ominous cracking sound from the base of the

weather vane and a piece breaks off, falling into the clouds far below.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia seems to be lost in a fog, her expression troubled.  Chewie is

busy operating the ship.  Lando stands next to the Wookiee, watching a

readout on the control panel.

Chewie growls in surprise.

Chewie barks in agreement with Lando.

Chewie turns on Lando, the newcomer, with an ominous growl.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - MILLENNIUM FALCON - DUSK

The Falcon makes a graceful banking turn back toward Cloud City.

EXT. CLOUD CITY - LANDING PLATFORM

Vader enters the landing platform and watches as the speck that is the

Falcon disappears.  The wind blows at his cape.

He turns to two aides who are standing near the entrance to the landing

platform.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Nearly unconscious, Luke hangs upside-down on the weather vane as his

body shifts in the wind.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon dives to the underside of the floating city.  Three TIE

fighter close in on the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Leia tries to remain calm.

Lando rushes out of the cockpit.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY - WEATHER VANE

Luke hangs by one arm from the crossbar of the weather vane.  He slips

from the bar and grabs onto the pole of the vane as the Falcon banks

toward him.  The Falcon positions itself under Luke as Lando moves up

through the opening of the hatch.  Luke begins to slide and finally

falls from the vane into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Out the cockpit window, Leia sees Luke falling from the bottom of the

city.  The ship gains on him.

The Falcon closes in on Luke.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

Three TIE fighters race toward the Falcon, firing away.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HATCH

The hatch pops open with a hiss of pressure.  Lando reaches out to help

the battered warrior inside the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Flak bursts all around it as the Falcon banks away from the city.  Leia

and Chewie struggle with the controls.

EXT. BOTTOM OF CLOUD CITY

The Falcon races away.  It is closely followed by three TIE fighters,

all of which keep up a heavy laser assault on the fleeing starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Explosions erupt all around the cockpit, buffeting the ship wildly.

Chewie howls as he frantically tries to control the ship.

Leia and Chewie turns to see Luke, bloody and battered, enter the

cockpit supported by Lando.  Leia jumps up and hugs him while Chewie

barks in joyous relief.

Leia helps Luke from the cockpit as another huge blast rocks the ship.

EXT. SPACE - CLOUD CITY - DAY

The Falcon, still followed by the three TIE fighters, races away from

the cloud-covered city.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke rests on a cot, his injured arm wrapped in a protective cuff.

Leia gently wipes his face.  The ship lurches again.

She kisses him, then leaves the quarters.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

All over the ship muted alarm buzzers sound.  Lando anxiously watches

the flashing lights on the control panel and hurriedly adjusts some

switches.  Seated next to him, Chewie points out a new blip appearing

on the panel.  Leia, watching over their shoulders, recognizes the

shape.

Another explosion rocks the ship.  Leia notices as a green light on the

panel next to her flashes on.

Chewie barks in agreement.

The Wookiee shrugs and pulls back on the light-speed throttle.  The

sound of the ion engine changes...it is winding up.  Faces are tense,

expectant.  But nothing happens, and the engine goes off.  Chewie lets

out a frustrated howl.  The flak still violently rocks the ship.

Chewie gets up from his chair and starts out of the cockpit.  He gives

Lando and angry shove as he storms past him.

EXT. SPACE

In the distance the TIE fighters continue their chase, still shooting

lasers.  Vader's Star Destroyer moves behind them, determinedly

following the Falcon.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge looking out the window as Admiral Piett

approaches him.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Beeping while he works, Artoo is busy connecting some wires to Threepio

who now has one leg attached.

Chewie enters through the doorway, grunting to himself.

Artoo beeps in response.

Artoo whistles knowingly.

Chewie is in the pit.  He is trying to loosen something with an

enormous wrench.  Frustrated, he uses the wrench like a club and hits

the panel...

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando, seated in front of the control panel, are suddenly

sprayed by a shower of sparks.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Vader stands on the bridge, watching as the Millennium Falcon is chased

by the TIE fighters.  As his Destroyer draws nearer, Vader's breathing

gets slightly faster.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

Luke realizes that Vader's ship is very near.  He feels resigned to his

fate.  He senses that he is beaten, more emotionally than physically.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SLEEPING QUARTERS

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando and Leia are at the controls of the Falcon.  Meanwhile, in the

ship's hold, Chewie continues to work frantically on the hyperdrive

mechanism.

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon races through space followed very closely by the TIE

fighters and the huge Imperial Star Destroyer.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Luke enters the cockpit and looks out the window.  He is almost

unconscious with pain and depression.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

Artoo races to a control panel and starts working on a circuit board.

Furious, Threepio stands on one leg, yelling.

Artoo moves a circuit on a control panel.  Suddenly, the control panel

lights up.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia and Lando are thrown into their seats as the Millennium Falcon

unexpectedly shoot into hyperspace.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD

The ship tilts up and Artoo topples into the pit on top of Chewie.

EXT. SPACE

The Falcon soars into infinity and away from the huge Star Destroyer

which seems, by contrast, to stand still.

INT. VADER'S STAR DESTROYER - BRIDGE

Admiral Piett and another captain glance at Vader in terror.  Vader

turns slowly and walks off the bridge, his hands held behind his back

in a contemplative gesture.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL CRUISER

The Millennium Falcon is attached to a huge Rebel cruiser by a docking

tube.  Rebel fighters move about the giant cruiser, and a Rebel

transport ship hovers near the fleet.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Lando sits in the pilot's seat as he talks into the comlink.  Chewie

busily throws a variety of switches in preparation for takeoff.

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

Luke speaking into the comlink as a medical droid works on his hand.

Leia stands near him while Threepio and Artoo look out the window.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

INT. STAR CRUISER - MEDICAL CENTER

Chewie's wail comes over the comlink.

Luke looks down at his hand.  A metalized type of bandage has been

wrapped around his wrist.  The medical droid makes some adjustments in

a tiny electronic unit, then pricks each one of Luke's fingers.

Luke wriggles his fingers, makes a fist, and relaxes it.  His hand is

completely functional.

He gets up and walks over to Leia.  There is a new bond between them, a

new understanding.  Leia is thinking about Han; Luke is thinking about

his uncertain and newly complicated future.  Together they stand at the

large window of the medical center looking out on the Rebel Star

Cruiser and a dense, luminous galaxy swirling in space.

Luke puts his arm around Leia.  The droids stand next to them, and

Threepio moves closer to Artoo putting his arm on him.  The group

watches as the Millennium Falcon moves into view, makes a turn, and

zooms away into space.

EXT. SPACE - REBEL STAR CRUISER

While Luke, Leia, and the droids stand, looking out the window of the

star cruiser, two escort fighters join the large ship.  Slowly, the

cruiser turns and moves away into space.

EXT. GALAXY - SPACE

END CREDITS FADE IN AND OUT OVER BACKGROUND

