We can hear movement. Strange skittering sounds, like

razor-claws on metal... the hiss of pneumatic hoses...

the whirr and click of servos... liquid gurgling... an

eerie, alien cacophony.

appears, hanging now in the starry blackness. The

alien noises continue, and far in the distance we hear

the muffled THUMP of what could be a distant explosion.

Alien TEXT suddenly appears next to Earth, and we

REVEAL we are in --

The image of Earth is actually on a monitor, which is

only one of DOZENS of MONITORS covering a huge wall.

We don't see anything of the rest of the room, but the

technology in view is distinctly alien and bizarre --

a mixture of organic and mechanical elements.

Circuitry and optical cabling are side-by-side with

what looks almost like arteries and organs. We can

still hear the creepy skittering and gurgling noises.

Occasionally, a SHADOWY FORM sweeps past the camera,

vaguely humanoid but we can't tell who or what it is.

All of the monitors are active, and they present myriad

IMAGES and SOUND -- all related to EARTH HISTORY. The

screens show everything from written Chinese... to

Renaissance paintings... to black and white newsreel

footage of World War Two... to what look like clips of

space battles from the 24th century. The entire range

of human history dancing across the monitors. The

effect is dizzying -- we get the feeling that whoever

is watching this is studying the human race.

There is another THUMP and the wall of monitors

SHUDDERS slightly. We hear the VOICE of what we will

come to know as the BORG COLLECTIVE -- thousands of

voices speaking at once :

The images on the monitors now change to show us images

from 21ST CENTURY Earth history.

Again, it's a collection of still photography, video

footage, text, artwork, etc. We hear snippets of sound-

bites, music, speeches from the period. A lot of

enticing details. As the images race across the

monitors, we should learn the following.

-- The turn of the 21st century brought chaos.

Regional wars, the collapse of the United Nations.

Societal break-down. Crime, starvation, desperation.

-- A Third World War. Nuclear explosions,

environmental disasters, tens of millions dead. The

United States ceases to exist. All political authority

vanishes. Humanity teetering on the edge of the Second

Dark Age.

-- The image of a single man -- ZEPHRAM COCHRANE. A

visionary scientist. He see the spacecraft he created

out of a nuclear missile. He flies the first warp

test, breaking the light barrier. It changes history.

-- Grainy black and white images of a VULCAN SCOUT SHIP

landing on Earth. They saw Cochrane's flight, followed

him back to Earth, and made First Contact with the

human race.

-- Humanity turns the corner. First Contact with an

alien civilization brings the planet together as never

before. Humans and Vulcans working together, beginning

to solve long-standing problems with new technology.

We see an early replicator producing food for the

starving millions. A new World Government is formed.

-- People from planet Earth and people from Vulcan form

an Alliance. They call it the United Federation of

Planets. And they commission a fleet of starships for

protection and exploration. They call it Starfleet.

-- These are images recounting the birth of the Star

Trek universe.

Another muffled EXPLOSION, this one stronger, SHAKES

the entire wall. One of the monitors BLOWS OUT in a

shower of sparks. And now a new voice, a woman's

voice, low, threatening, with a slight metallic

inflection, speaks for the first time:

Another explosion ROCKS the room and it takes us to:

A huge, spherical Borg warship as it takes a phaser

shot from an unseen vessel. The BLAST smashes into the

Borg Sphere, but the massive ship continues. The

Sphere returns FIRE. FOLLOW the Borg fire to --

locked in battle with the Borg Sphere. The Borg fire

DESTROYS the Federation ship in a fiery blast.

as the Borg Sphere flies away from the wreckage of the

decimated starship, and as it does, we reveal that this

is just one small part of --

involving dozens of Starfleet and Borg vessels, engaged

in a fierce FIREFIGHT as far as the eye can see. Ships

turning, twisting, firing, exploding. Lots of movement.

It's a spectacular sight.

The Borg Sphere is moving away from the battle, heading

off in another direction.

In the middle of the battle. A BORG CUBE is attacking

a smaller Federation starship. The starship is taking

quite a beating... explosions all along the hull... it

doesn't look like it can take much  more of this.

Suddenly a spread of FOUR TORPEDOES come blazing in

from O.C. The torpedoes SLAM into the Borg ship,

causing massive damage.

SOARS into view and moves to protect the beleaguered

starship.

The Enterprise is Starfleet's newest and most powerful

vessel. An elegant and majestic ship. But unlike the

last Enterprise, Starfleet has opted for a more

muscular vessel and the hull is studded with weapons

and other defensive armory. We get the feeling this

Enterprise is ready for anything.

The Bridge has been redesigned. A single Captain's

chair dominates the room, and surrounding consoles and

stations all face inward instead of out, giving Picard

instant access to his officers. PICARD in the

Captain's chair. RIKER at a new Ops station. DATA at

the helm. WORF at Tactical. TROI at Communications,

various CREWMEMBERS at their posts. The ship is at Red

Alert and everyone is tense.

She works her console.

The Endeavor moves off as the Borg FIRE at the

Enterprise and BLASTS the saucer section. This should

also produce an unusual effect -- instead of the

traditional "bubble" shielding, the new armor of this

Enterprise ABSORBS the blast and dissipates the energy

across the hull. The ship is undamaged.

The ship is ROCKED by the blast.

As RAPID PHASER SHOTS leap out from half a dozen points

along the ship's port side. (NOTE: The phasers also

look different, more along the lines of a gatling gun).

The Borg Cube EXPLODES. The Enterprise flies through

the debris.

Including MAIN VIEWSCREEN, which has a view of the

chaotic battle surrounding them. Another Borg vessel

looms into view.

The Enterprise fires a burst of phasers -- but this

time, the phasers have no effect. We see a strange

SHIELDING appears around the Borg ship.

On the main viewer, the massive Borg ship looms closer.

Another JOLT as we're hit.

INTERCUT:

Where GEORDI and N.D. Engineers are rushing about, hard

at work. Geordi is no longer wearing his VISOR -- he

now has artificial ocular implants for eyes. They have

a distinctive electronic look to them.

END INTERCUT:

The Borg cube is huge on the main viewer as the

Enterprise rushes toward it.

Data works and the viewer changes to a view of the

INTERIOR of the BORG CUBE. A vast CHAMBER crammed with

HUNDREDS of BORG DRONES standing upright in individual

alcoves. They're everywhere -- on the ceiling, walls,

floor. This is a BORG COLLECTIVE -- hundreds of Borg

that form a gigantic "hive" mind. The Borg are half-

man/half machine. No individual personalities. No

feelings. They have only one goal in life: to

assimilate new races into their collective. To become

a Borg is to experience living death. When they speak,

they speak as a collective -- thousands of voices

speaking as one:

Worf works.

A QUANTUM TORPEDO BLASTS out of the launcher and heads

toward the Borg cube. This torpedo is completely

different than the traditional photon torpedo. It

oscillates and changes shape and color as it streaks

toward the Borg ship.

as the quantum torpedo HITS IT. But instead of

exploding on the surface, the torpedo PIERCES the ship

like an armor-piercing shell and momentarily VANISHES

from view. The ship then EXPLODES like a star going

supernova -- bright light and shock waves.

The ship is ROCKED violently by the shock wave. People

hanging on.

Riker looks at his console.

The viewer shows ADMIRAL HAYES on the Bridge of his

starship.

as it breaks away from the battle...and races INTO

WARP.

There are Starfleet satellites and space stations in

close orbit. The Borg Sphere seen before enters frame.

The satellites open fire, but they have little effect

on the massive Borg Sphere, which returns fire,

EXPLODING them in orbit.

The Sphere heads down toward the Earth...

Picard gets up, moves to Data's console.

Data reacts to his console.

Picard studies Data's monitor.

A beat as Picard makes a shocking realization.

The Borg Sphere GLOWING RED and beginning to burn with

friction as it PLUMMETS toward Earth...

plunging down into the atmosphere, giving chase...

Urgent.

Just ahead of the Sphere we see a TEMPORAL VORTEX

opening -- a maelstrom of light and energy stretching

into infinity. ENERGY explodes from the vortex as the

Sphere begins to go inside...

as it's HIT by the tremendous energy blast from the

vortex. The ship spins around, nearly rips apart.

Everyone THROWN to the deck. Consoles sparking. Power

failing. SHAKING.

Riker checks a console.

Worf works...

Another QUANTUM TORPEDO is launched from the

Enterprise. But just before it hits the Borg Sphere,

the Sphere VANISHES inside the vortex. The torpedo

hits the roiling energy of the Vortex and detonates

with a harmless flash. The Vortex itself starts

COLLAPSING...

The shaking subsides.

Disturbed reactions.

She works, and on the View screen EARTH appears as seen

from orbit. The crystal blue marble is now covered by

a thick, turbulent DARK ATMOSPHERE -- polluted and

ugly. Reactions.

A shocking moment.

Worf's console sounds an alarm.

The ship is suddenly ROCKED.

The Enterprise is being chased by FIVE BORG SHIPS as it

heads down toward the planet. The Borg vessels FIRE on

the Enterprise.

As before. The ship is shaking.

Ahead of the ship, we see the VORTEX collapsing. The

shaking increases. A console EXPLODES.

The ship is HIT AGAIN AND AGAIN. On the View Screen,

we're nearly on the vortex, but it's closing fast.

The Enterprise just barely makes it inside the vortex

as it finally COLLAPSES. Both the Enterprise and the

vortex VANISH.

An empty star field. Suddenly, the VORTEX APPEARS and

the Enterprise comes ROARING out into space. The

vortex VANISHES behind the ship.

The shaking subsides. Everyone exchanges a look, tries

to re-orient themselves.

Which shows Earth. The Borg pollution is gone.

Worf pops open a panel and a high-tech TARGETING console

emerges with a small MONITOR and a traditional CROSS-

HAIR in the center. Worf grabs the targeting hand-

controls -- futuristic joysticks.

The ship is FIRING its weapons down toward the planet

as the Enterprise comes up over the horizon.

As before. Worf works his controls. A complex array

of grids, coordinate information, speed data, and other

weapons info on the monitor screen. He begins trying

to focus the cross-hairs on the Sphere.

Worf struggles with the targeting system.

The crosshairs keep missing the image of the Borg

Sphere, which is now twisting and turning to evade us.

Troi reacts to her console.

The crosshairs finally LOCK on the Borg Sphere.

The quantum torpedo streaks in from off-camera and

slams into the Borg ship. It penetrates the Sphere as

seen before... a long beat... and then it EXPLODES.

As everyone reacts to the destruction of the Sphere.

But Picard has no time for celebration.

Picard thinks for a moment... makes an instant decision

and turns to Worf.

Worf works. Riker turns to him, curious.

He grins slightly, has to agree.

Picard EXITS...

Picard, Geordi and THREE SECURITY GUARDS are checking

their phasers and tricorders. Everyone is wearing civilian

clothes. Geordi has a large engineering kit... Transporter

Chief pulling on a civilian jacket. She looks a little

frazzled - it's been a long day in Sickbay.

Beverly joins them on the pad.

They DEMATERIALIZE.

Picard, Geordi, Beverly and the Security Team

MATERIALIZE on the vast, rolling plains of Montana.

Picard and Geordi take out their tricorders and start

scanning the landscape.

They start walking...

Picard gives her a look. As they keep walking...

hanging in orbit of Earth.

CLOSE ON A DEAD CREWMEMBER lying on her back. A sheet

is covering her face. A hand reaches in, pulls back

the sheet, revealing the face of a crewman.

WIDEN to REVEAL Troi and Data. Data is holding back

the sheet while Troi scans the body with a tricorder.

There is repair work going on in the b.g. Two medical

N.D.s stand by.

Troi glances at Data, who is clearly disturbed by the

sight of the dead woman, holding his EMOTIONS in check

with difficulty.

Troi looks at him in concern.

Data considers.

INTERCUT:

Riker, Worf, N.D.s at their stations.

As Data EXITS...

A WIDE SHOT of the ship. CAMERA CLOSES ON the AFT

SECTION of the ship, moving underneath of the hull,

pushing in on an area at the very bottom of the

Enterprise.

Data and ENSIGN PORTER ENTER through a set of doors.

The lights are off in the room, dim. This is a large

room crammed with many conduits, gas tanks, 24th

century machinery and monitors. It's normally unmanned --

this is where oxygen, gravity, heat, and other

environmental conditions of the ship are controlled.

In a far corner of the room a CONDUIT leading to a

series of high-pressure TANKS labeled "D-O2" has

ruptured and is SPEWING a corrosive, poisonous GAS.

Data scans it with his tricorder.

Data walks over to the spewing gas tank, and without

concern shoves both hands into the corrosive gas...

... groping around for the broken conduit, finally grabs

hold of it... and with android strength BENDS the metal

conduit back into the bulkhead. The gas stops leaking.

Data is completely unaffected by the corrosive gas.

Porter moves around a corner, behind some equipment,

out of Data's vision...

who opens a PANEL on the wall. But instead of the neat

and orderly Starfleet technology, he is confronted by

a bizarre amalgam of organic and mechanical cabling,

diodes and what almost look like arteries. Some of the

tubes are pulsing with fluids and energy. Porter

reacts.

Porter pulls aside a large conduit and stops. Buried

deep within the tangle of bio-circuits is what looks

like a HUMAN FACE covered with cybernetic tubes and

chips. It's barely discernable in the darkness and

clutter. Porter isn't even sure what he's looking at.

He leans in for a closer look... and suddenly the eyes

open.

who hears a THUMP and a sickening liquid CRUNCH from

off camera. He takes a few steps in that direction.

He stands there for a moment, puzzled. Then a faint

SKITTERING SCRAPE can be heard -- like tiny claws on a

metal surface. He  whirls at the sound.

No response. Data walks around the now deathly quiet

room... turns the corner to where Porter was working.

He's gone. The open panel is still there, and there

doesn't appear to be any place Porter could've gone.

Data looks puzzled, takes a step forward when his boots

make a squishing sound. He looks down...

No response.

Nothing. Data quickly turns and heads for the door.

There's a metallic SCRAPE above him and he looks up --

are climbing to the ceiling like two spiders ready to

pounce. One of them has Porter and appears to be

inserting some horrible Borg device into his head.

Before Data can react, the second Borg suddenly lunges

at Data.

The SILO is buried deep underground, but on the surface

there is a large, poured concrete MISSILE DOOR.

Built to withstand a nuclear blast, the door has

nevertheless been badly charred and damaged by the Borg

attack from orbit. There are large, smoking CRATERS

all around. Part of the ground seems to have COLLAPSED

to a depth of ten feet, like a sinkhole nearby. Picard

and his team approach.

As they speak, Beverly pulls out a hypospray and gives

everyone injections.

Geordi moves to the thick, concrete missile door, scans

it.

Everyone spreads out... looking for the hatch. One of

the guards -- LANGE -- finds it.

Everyone rushes over to him. There's a small HATCH on

the ground that has been partially hidden by weeds and

brush. Geordi kneels down, starts working a complex-

looking LOCK on the hatch.

Picard pulls out his phaser and everyone steps back.

He aims and FIRES at the hatch, which is BLOWN OPEN,

revealing a ladder that leads down into the darkness.

As they start to crawl inside...

This is the "mission control" for Cochrane's test site.

The underground room is filled with 21st century

equipment, consoles and monitors. One entire wall of

the room is dominated by a huge METAL BLAST DOOR, which

is now closed. We will learn that on the other side of

that door is the nuclear missile/warp ship itself.

The ceiling has partially collapsed. Chunks of

concrete and fallen beams have destroyed some of the

equipment...Only a few of the consoles are active, most

are dark or fritzing sporadically. The lights are out,

and the room is illuminated by a few smoldering fires.

Four dead bodies can be seen strewn around the room.

It's a scene of destruction.

and his team ENTER the dark and smoking ruin. Beverly

and Picard move to one of the dead men, while Geordi

and the Security Guards move to the other three.

Beverly rolls the man onto his back -- he's clearly

dead. The name stitched on his uniform says Rippert.

Picard looks up.

Geordi and the Guards start checking the dead bodies.

Picard and Beverly move toward the immense blast door.

As Beverly scans it, Picard glances at a nearby desk...

is littered with debris and various documents and

schematics. THREE PHOTOGRAPHS are pinned to a bulletin

board above the desk -- they show Zephram Cochrane and

two angles of his warp ship. The photos are odd-

looking, printed on what appears to be some sort of

cloth.

Geordi moves to the door.

They hunt around for a moment. Geordi runs his hand

along the edge of the blast door. Picard turns to the

Guards.

The Guards move off.

Geordi has found an emergency BOX with several

pneumatic tubes and a hydraulic lever labeled

"emergency use only." He pulls down the lever, there

is a hissing sound, and the blast door slowly SLIDES

DOWN into the floor. We can now see the MISSILE SILO

itself beyond the door. Picard, Geordi and Beverly

step into...

Picard, Geordi and Beverly step onto the catwalk, which

surrounds the Silo walls. In the middle is the WARP

SHIP itself. It should look like an advanced ICBM

missile with a COCKPIT in place of the warhead, and

with numerous modifications to the fuselage. The

cockpit is on the same level as the control room. On

the side of the missile is the name "Phoenix". The

missile itself extends down another FOUR STORIES.

There are other catwalks below this one, with ladders

connecting the different levels. Beverly sees

something below.

Two catwalks below we can see a man sprawled on the

grating. They all scramble down the ladders past the

massive missile. (NOTE: Because of the design of the

Silo, we will see the entire missile only in a few

shots. For the most part, our view is limited to

sections of the missile.)

Beverly reaches the man, who is lying face-down on the

metal grating. She scans him...

Geordi looks over at the section of the missile on

their level. The side panels have been removed,

revealing complex circuitry within.

Picard joins Beverly, who turns over the injured man.

It's ZEPHRAM COCHRANE -- the man whose picture we saw

on the Borg monitors. Beverly begins pulling devices

out of her medkit, injects Cochrane with a hypospray.

Cochrane is a man in his mid-forties. He has a

youthful, dynamic appearance marred by recent radiation

burns.

Picard nods, reaches into his pants pocket, takes out

a combadge.

Picard nods... then takes a deep breath, tries to

orient himself to the task at hand... there's a lot at

stake and a lot to do. He turns to Geordi.

Geordi takes a deep breath, it's a tall order.

Geordi goes to work. Picard bends down and carefully

hoists Cochrane up into a fireman's carry. Beverly

follows him up the catwalk...

Minutes later. Cochrane is lying on the ground.

Beverly is kneeling beside him, unfolding a portable

stretcher from her medkit. Picard is checking two

combadges with a tricorder.

Picard looks troubled at the thought.

Picard kneels down and they begin to carefully put

Cochrane on the stretcher...

Riker, Troi and Worf studying a MONITOR which shows a

three-dimensional DIAGRAM of the Enterprise, which

turns and rotates as needed. The schematic shows

battle damage and repair efforts.

Worf nods and begins making notes on a PADD.

Just then the ship SHUDDERS and the LIGHTS FLICKER.

An ALARM goes off on Worf's console. He reacts to it.

CLOSE ON THE SAUCER as vents and hatches POP OPEN on

the hull and GIANT JETS OF VAPOR start blowing out

into space.

Crewmembers walking along are suddenly KNOCKED to the

floor as hurricane force WINDS blow through the

Corridor. The ship is venting air into space, creating

a virtual VACUUM inside the ship! The people in the

corridor grab onto the bulkheads, struggling to hang on

against the force of the wind...

Suddenly an emergency AIRLOCK on the Bridge OPENS.

VIOLENT WIND roars through the Bridge and everyone

hangs on. Troi is ripped out of her chair, flown

across the Bridge, slams up against the bulkhead,

struggling to hang on. Worf runs over, grabs her arm,

keeps her from flying out.

Riker manages to reach a control panel -- hits a button

and an EMERGENCY BULKHEAD finally slides down over the

airlock and the wind DIES DOWN. Everyone takes a beat.

Worf heads for a Turbolift. OFF Riker's disturbed

expression...

His eyes are closed. There's a beat, then his eyes fly

open and he looks around.

We PULL BACK slightly, revealing Data is lying on some

kind of tabletop with metallic clamps and restraints.

He tenses his arm and tries to move, but he is unable

to break the restraints. About two feet in front of

his face is what appears to be a bulkhead. There is a

cacophony of strange background NOISE -- scratching,

hisses, gurgling liquids, odd alien hums...

Suddenly, the table begins to MOVE. It ROTATES, and as

it does so we realize that Data has been hanging upside

down staring at the floor. It's a disorienting moment

as our perspective changes and Data rotates upright.

As the table gyrates, we REVEAL the ROOM slowly. And

we realize we're in --

The Environmental Control Room seen earlier has now

been transformed into the INNER-SANCTUM of the BORG.

The room has a dark, moist, organic feel -- a tropical

jungle of cybernetic equipment.

The Borg are altering the room, converting Starfleet

technology and materials into the living, bio-

mechanical look of the Borg. We see one Borg drone

attach a small pod to a Starfleet console and activate

it. The pod immediately sends out a COMPLEX WEB of

BORG TECHNOLOGY which covers the Starfleet console

inside and out. It's like weeds overpowering a flower

bed -- within seconds the console has been BORGIFIED.

The walls, ceiling and floor are now honeycombed with

the ALCOVES that make up the BORG COLLECTIVE. Borg

drones are motionless in their alcoves, cabling and

other conduits connecting them to various equipment...

while other Borg are moving about the room, carrying

out various modifications to the room. At one point,

we see Ensign Porter. He's been completely Borgified.

His skin pale, expression blank. No hint of humanity

left.

still strapped to the table, which is twisting and

rotating, giving him frightening new glimpses of the

room. A new image appears -- SIX BORG DRONES are

clustered together in one section of the room, each

with an elaborate series of hoses and conduits

connected to its face.

Through the tubes we can see an exchange of FLUID and

ENERGY pulsing back and forth -- some sort of bizarre

"feeding" or "renewal" is going on. The tubes all seem

to lead toward the ceiling.

Data is now horizontal on his back and the table LOCKS

into position. A Borg drone OPENS A PANEL on the side

of Data's head, and begins connecting a thick bundle of

optical cabling to it.

The Borg ignores him, activates a console... and the

cabling connected to Data's head LIGHTS UP with power.

They're trying to connect him to the Collective.

Data thinks for a moment, tilts his head slightly...

and then suddenly there's a SHOWER of SPARKS from the

cabling he's been connected to. The lights on the

cable go out. Data has thwarted their attempts.

Suddenly a new VOICE is heard echoing through the room --

a woman's voice, low, seductive, deadly:

Data looks up toward...

A RUSTLE of MOVEMNET somewhere in the cyber-tangle...

almost like a snake slithering beneath the weeds. And

for a brief instant we get a glimpse of a FACE unlike

any Borg we've ever seen. The face of a woman. Pale-

skinned... piercing eyes...raven hair slicked back...

a hauntingly beautiful image in a sea of nightmarish

technology. And then it's gone.

Frowns. He saw it, too, but he's not sure what to make

of it.

Suddenly three Borg drones converge on Data with

various wicked-looking Borg devices. One of the Borg

has a specialized cybernetic ARM, which EXTRUDES a

series of stiletto-tipped DRILL SPIKES. As the six-

inch spikes begin to BORE INTO Data's head...

Resurrection is a small town -- around 1,000 people --

a rural, Western community that's probably existed for

at least two hundred years, and we can see the roots of

the original ranching community in some of the

architecture. But it's also a community of the 21st

century.

The most striking feature of the town is that it sits

in the middle of nearly a hundred WIND MILLS, which

provide the only source of power for the town. The

blades are enormous, but the structures supporting them

are little more than simple poles. Some are sleek,

fiberglass, futuristic... others have a more cobbled

together, make-shift appearance. At the moment, only

a few blades are turning in the gentle breeze.

Picard and Beverly emerge from the nearby woods

carrying the stretcher. They exchange a look at the

sight of the city and then head toward it...

A few minutes later. Picard and Beverly carrying

Cochrane down the street toward the hospital at the

end. As they walk along, we get our first taste of

post-apocalyptic 21st century life:

This is a recognizable American community, but it's

definitely a futuristic town. Clothing, architecture,

technology -- all have changed over the course of

seventy years. But it is a broken future. What used

to be high-tech public COMPUTER TERMINALS are rusted

and abandoned. We can see the corroded hulks of HOVER-

CARS lying idle in the streets. Futuristic elements

now useless.

At one point, they pass a large polyurethane TENT --

the inside surface is covered with condensation and we

can see the silhouettes of people moving within. The

entrance is guarded by a single Militia Guard. Later

we will learn that this is a primitive greenhouse, the

only place where they can grow uncontaminated food.

What used to be a McDonald's, or some other

recognizable food chain, has now been gutted and has

been turned into a kind of blacksmith shop. People are

fashioning metal into various tools using hammer and

tongs.

The sidewalks are populated with PEOPLE, who congregate

in small groups, quietly talking amongst themselves,

others just staring vacantly off into space. Many of

them have visible burn scars and damage to their bodies --

victims of the war and post-nuclear environmental

dangers. A few of them are applying a special lotion

to their arms and face -- protection against the toxic

elements. A long FOOD LINE snakes around a block, as

people line up to get their daily rations.

A few people glance up at Picard and Beverly with

curious or suspicious looks. This is not a community

that welcomes strangers. At one point, they see a man

dressed in futuristic CAMOUFLAGE carrying an automatic

weapon -- we will learn he's a MILITIA SOLDIER. He

stares at them with a neutral expression, then walks

off.

The people here have that hollow-eyed, listless look

about them. They're going through something that makes

the Great Depression look like a minor inconvenience.

But there's also a toughness to these people, a

resilience and determination to survive in the face of

overwhelming odds. We are looking at our future... and

it's on the verge of collapse.

A short time later. Cochrane is being lifted onto an

operating table. Picard and Beverly step back from the

table as a DOCTOR and two NURSES look him over. The

doctor is in his early fifties and has a weathered,

tired look to him. The hospital itself is like the

rest of the town -- a futuristic setting fallen on hard

times. The light in the room is provided mostly from

the sunlight streaming in through the windows. Light

bulbs and other gear flicker dimly around the hospital --

we get the feeling they have very little power.

He checks Cochran's head injury as Beverly takes out

her tricorder and scans him.

One of the nurses runs off.

He looks at her curiously.

The Doctor eyes it.

The Doctor throws her an irritated look.

Cochrane wheezes -- breathing becoming labored and

ragged. Beverly scans him, urgent.

The nurse picks up a portable respirator sack -- puts

it on Cochrane's face and squeezes the bag, forcing air

into Cochrane's lungs. Picard has been thinking

through this scene, finally has a solution.

She hands him her tricorder.

Picard rushes out the doors. Beverly checks Cochrane's

pulse.

Beverly climbs up on top of Cochrane, straddling him,

begins giving him 24th century CPR. She takes charge.

As they rush to save him.

The back of the building. Picard rushes out and spots

an old, dilapidated BATTERY UNIT providing power to the

hospital. He quickly yanks off the back panel,

revealing a tangle of wires, and several large

batteries. He kneels down, then removes the back of

the tricorder.

as Picard pulls out a small POWER CELL -- about half

the size of a dime. The blinkies on the tricorder go

out.

holds the power cell with one hand, and starts pulling

out wires from the batteries with the other.

As before. Beverly, the doctor and the nurse trying to

save Cochrane.

The nurse squeezes the bag. Suddenly the room is

filled with the HUM of POWER and ALL OF THE LIGHTS AND

EQUIPMENT COME TO LIFE. Monitors blinking, fluorescent

lights flashing on. Everyone reacts with shock.

It's filled with patients. The lights and equipment

here FLASH ON, as well. Doctors and patients alike

react with surprise.

Picard enters. They've placed a RESPIRATOR down

Cochrane's throat, and attached electrodes to his

chest. Beverly has just finished giving him an

injection with a hypospray. The heart monitor in the

background is now beating regularly. The doctor turns

to Picard.

A WOMAN'S VOICE:

Everyone turns.

revealing RUBY SLOANE standing at the front of

Cochrane's bed. A striking woman in her mid-to-late

thirties -- dark hair, tall, lean, beautiful under

normal circumstances but at the moment she's not at her

best, it looks like she's just come in from a hard

day's work. She's wearing an old lab coat. But the

most striking quality of all is the innate intelligence

we can see in her eyes.

She's looking directly at Picard for an answer. Picard

realizes he has to say something. He looks into her

eyes and there is a moment here -- a brief spark of

chemistry that in normal circumstances the Captain just

might follow up. But at the moment, he shoves that

electric feeling aside and tries to give her an answer.

She looks at him for a moment, her eyes boring into him

without expression, as though probing the truthfulness

of his statement.

She turns back to Cochrane, moves to his side, gently

takes his hand and looks at him with sad affection.

She looks up at Picard, and again there's a slight

feeling of chemistry in the air. And then she turns

and starts to walk out of the room. Picard's combadge

BEEPS. Reactions.

Picard takes a few steps away, pulls the combadge out

of his pants pocket, taps it. Ruby watches him a beat,

then walks out of the room.

Picard moves to Beverly.

Beverly begins examining the medical equipment she'll

have to work with as Picard exits...

A short time later. Picard walking down the main

street back toward the gates. People passing him,

taking no notice of him...Picard's mind thinking

ahead. He happens to glance down a side street, then

he stops.

Looking down the side street. Ruby, the mysterious

woman from the hospital, is walking along with a camera

bag now slung over her shoulder. She stops for a

moment as she passes the hulk of a burnt-out old hover

car... stares at it...then pulls a home-made

FUTURISTIC CAMERA out of her bag and snaps a picture of

the car. She continues on her way. Picard is

intrigued -- wonders about this woman and what it is

she could be taking a picture of. Just then --

Picard turns just in time to catch a small, metal

canister with a screw-top.

The man who threw it steps into view. It's LIEUTENANT

SCRIMM. Scrimm is the head of the town's militia.

While not a physically threatening man, there is a

quietly disturbing quality about him which conveys an

intelligence laced with a tightly reined volatility.

He's wearing futuristic combat fatigues and always

carries a sidearm. Before the war, Scrimm was probably

one of the "survivalists" who used to be dismissed as

radicals until their predictions of Armageddon came

true. At the moment, Scrimm is presenting his

friendliest face to Picard.

Picard eyes the canister, not sure what to make of it.

He points to the sky.

Scrimm is still smiling at him, but his eyes never

leave Picard.

Picard begins to walk away, not wanting to engage any

citizens of the town. Scrimm falls in next to him.

He casually steps in front of Picard, blocking his way.

Picard steps around him and continues walking down the

street. Scrimm waits a beat, then walks after him

again.

He steps in front of Picard again, still pleasant but

a little bit of a smile fading from his face. Picard

realizes he isn't going to shake this man so easily.

Scrimm eyes him evenly.

A tense beat. Then Scrimm smiles easily.

He holds Picard's eyes for a moment.

Now it's Picard's turn to smile pleasantly at Scrimm.

Picard walks around him and heads for the gates.

Scrimm watches him go with a thoughtful expression --

clearly, he's more than a little suspicious...

in orbit of Earth.

Worf and a large SECURITY DETACHMENT -- a dozen or so

men and women -- are moving down the Corridor with grim

looks on their faces. They are carrying new powerful-

looking phaser rifles and other equipment. The feeling

is of an elite combat squad heading for a dangerous

mission. They stop at one point and Worf lifts up a

DECKPLATE, exposing a large HATCH in the floor. Worf

hits his combadge.

Riker in command, Troi nearby. Riker is standing at

the security station looking at a monitor which

displays a schematic graphic of the ship. The position

of the security team is flashing -- we can see they are

on Deck 46.

He nods to Troi, who works a console.

Worf and his team watch as the FORCEFIELD protecting

the hatch flashes off. Worf reaches down and releases

the hatch, which slides open with a soft whoosh. He

glances at his men for a moment, then JUMPS down the

hatch...

As Worf lands on his feet. The light is dim, no power

on this deck, hard to see. He looks around warily for

a moment, phaser at-the-ready, then activates his wrist

beacon. We immediately notice that we can see Worf's

breath -- it's freezing cold down here. He shines the

light around the darkened corridor, then silently

motions his arm for the others to follow. A beat, then

we see the security officers start to drop into the

corridor from the hatch above...

As Worf's squad spreads out along the hall, weapons at-

the-ready, everyone alert with fingers on the triggers.

We see that the phaser rifles are equipped with their

own light sources, intended to illuminate the target

before you shoot at it. The Security Officers are

constantly moving their lights back and forth through

the chilly air. Worf gives hand signals -- holds up

two fingers, then a fist, and points forward.

Two Guards trot down the corridor about fifteen feet,

stop, and take up firing positions... then two more

members of the team run down, leap frog ahead of them

and take positions further down the corridor. Classic

military deployment. Worf starts scanning with a

tricorder.

The team continue to explore Deck 47. It's spooky,

eerie, a sense of menace around every corner. They

open doors, check room by room, section by section,

still no sign of the Borg in the freezing cold

darkness.

The Corridor directly ahead has been stripped of wall,

ceiling and deck panels -- all the normal decorative

Enterprise sheathing is gone, revealing the circuitry

and machinery of the ship itself. Unlike the rest of

the corridors, there does appear to be POWER flowing

through some of the conduits up ahead, and it gives off

an eerie glow.

We can also see that some of the machinery has been

altered and changed -- not just the neat and orderly

arrangement you'd expect to find behind bulkheads --

there's a sense of cross-circuitry, re-wiring,

equipment being rearranged. Clearly, a lot of work has

gone on in this area of the ship. Worf steps forward,

examines the corridor closely.

Worf signals the team forward, and they slowly begin

picking their way down the Borgified Corridor. It's

not easy -- they have to choose their footing carefully

as they walk through the maze of cables, circuits, and

machinery... Ensign Hawk accidentally steps on some

circuitry, which gives off a BEEP. The entire team

suddenly whirls their lights and weapons on the

unfortunate Ensign, who pales at their sudden attention.

Worf looks irritated, then motions his team to continue

their search. They continue making their way down the

spooky corridor... and as they turn a corner...

where the machinery is now THICKER and more BORG-LIKE

in appearance. Tubes and cabling hang down from the

ceiling. If anything, it's even colder in here. The

deeper they go, the worse it gets. We can now hear a

low, sinister HUM of alien power. At the end of this

corridor is the ENVIROMENTAL CONTROL ROOM, as seen

earlier. The entire doorway is gone -- and a weird

pulsing GLOW fills the room. Worf stops his team at

the sight. From this vantage, we cannot see directly

into the room, but clearly something is going on in

there.

Worf signals his men to spread out, and they take up

positions around the Corridor, all weapons trained on

Environmental Control.

As Work and Riker continue talking, we MOVE TO Ensign

Hawk, who is now the last man in the formation,

covering the rear. He's shining his phaser-beacon into

the empty darkness. He can't help looking back over

his shoulder at the rest of the team and the distant

Environmental Control Room -- that seems to be where

the action is. As he turns, his beacon moves with him,

throwing the Corridor behind them in and out of

darkness.

As Worf speaks, Ensign Hawk turns back, but this time

when he shines his beacon into the darkness, something

MOVES in the distance -- a shadow. The Ensign freezes,

brings his rifle up. But did he see it, or was it his

imagination?

A tense beat as he waits, heart pounding... but nothing

happens. On the wall next to his head we see what can

only be described as a BIO-MECHANISTIC CABLE creeping

out of the wall... which begins slowly heading for the

Ensign's neck. Just as he begins to sense that

something is happening behind him, the cable WHIPS OUT

around his neck and YANKS him deep into the bed of

circuitry in the blink of an eye -- the motion so fast

we have trouble following it.

Worf turns his head at the sound.

Everyone looks around, surprised that he's not there.

Everyone is alert, keyed up. The tension is thick.

Utter silence, except for the hum of the machinery and

the frosty breathing of the team.

Worf gives hand signals for the team to move out. But

just as they start to fall back, everything happens at

once.

EXPLODE OUT OF THE WALLS, CEILING AND FLOOR! What

follows is a BLUR of action happening so fast and

furious we never get a true sense of what's happening.

A flurry of violence and motion and images:

-- A snarling Borg face -- half-human, half-machine, a

-- Strange, bio-mechanical WEAPONS extruding from Borg

-- A crewmember PULLED into a bed of machinery.

But the Borg are already on top of them. It's a brutal

fight in close quarters with no escape.

Phasers and Borg lasers lighting up the corridor,

bodies flying through the air... utter chaos and

terror. The fight goes hand to hand and Worf sees that

they don't have a chance...

The team starts backpedaling, FIRING as they go...but

the Borg are unstoppable now -- they put up personal

force fields to protect themselves.

Worf pushes his men down the corridor. Everyone turns

and RUNS like hell. Worf bends down and grabs a

frightened Lieutenant by the collar, pulling him along.

-- The team running through the corridors, SHOOTING

-- Two of the Borg raise their arms and FIRE LASER

As Worf's team starts CLIMBING UP and out the dark

hatch in the floor seen earlier.

As the last member of Worf's team climbs out to safety.

The Borg swarm is about to overpower Worf. He quickly

hits a few controls on his phaser, sets it to overload.

We hear the building WHINE. He JUMPS straight up into

the air, GRABBING onto the hatch rim, pulling himself

up. He barely manages to vanish from view just as the

phaser EXPLODES in a FIERY BLAST, taking out several of

the Borg drones.

The conclusive BLAST comes up through the hatch,

causing Worf to duck for a moment.

Worf reaches out to close the hatch, when a BORG HAND

bursts up from below and GRABS his forearm. It's a

test of strength. Worf reaches over with his other

arm, hits a control and the hatch SLIDES CLOSED,

SEVERING the Borg arm in a shower of sparks.

The force field FLASHES into place. Worf and his team

sit there a moment, catching their breath, stunned at

what they've just been through.

OFF Worf's shaken expression...

Geordi and Picard are walking down the catwalk ladders

toward the missile's massive engines. Now that the

smoke has cleared and the place has been cleared up a

bit, we get our first good look at the ship and the

damage done in the Borg attack.

They arrive at a point on the fuselage where we can see

a large section of the engines have been BLASTED AWAY,

leaving a deep, ugly SCAR -- broken conduit lines,

wires that now lead to nothing. It's clear that a key

piece of equipment has been destroyed.

They look at the damage in frustration.

Picard thinks, remembers something.

Moments later. Picard and Geordi are looking at the

three cloth-printed photographs seen earlier -- the

headshot of Cochrane and two different angles of the

three cloth-printed photographs seen earlier -- the

warp ship with people working on it. Picard spreads

them out on the desk.

Geordi points to a photo of the ship -- a worker is

walking in front of the throttle assembly, blocking

most of it from view.

Picard considers, absently sticks his hand in his

jacket pocket. He pulls out the canister of balm

Scrimm gave him and tosses it onto the table.

Geordi thinks it over.

It's a while later, and the Borg are making progress.

Data is strapped to the table, PANELS open on his HEAD

and CHEST. Three Borg drones are working methodically

on his inner-circuitry. The jagged voice of the woman

cuts in:

Data stares at the murky ceiling.

Out of the mist that hugs the top of the room DESCENDS

the BORG QUEEN.

She is unlike any of the Borg drones we've ever seen --

a humanoid female with conduits and tubes running out

of her body. She has no legs. Her torso is SUSPENDED

by a complex rig of CABLES and HYDRAULICS. Her face

and upper-torso are much more humanoid, with the pasty-

pale white of Borg flesh. Her EYES have a silvery

glint to them. Her demeanor is seductive and sensual

in contrast to the harsh, mechanical surroundings. She

is an eerie blend of two worlds -- organic and

mechanical.

With the soft HISS of hydraulics, she LOWERS herself

down to where her face is very close to that of Data's.

Her features are almost angelic, but the silvery glint

in her eyes betrays an inner-darkness.

She studies his face with a certain child-like quality.

She stares at him intently, and we get the hint that

her interest in Data may go beyond simple assimilation.

She seems fascinated by him. Data picks up on this.

The Queen opens her arms slightly, clearly indicating

herself.

Data eyes her, considering.

She looks at him as a new thought crosses her mind.

She might've just found the chink in Data's armor.

She smiles.

The Queen looks to the three Borg drones and gives them

a silent command. The drones immediately stop working

on Data's open panels... and shift their attention to

his right ARM. One of the drones tears off the sleeve

on Data's uniform, exposing his bare arm. Another then

uses a small cutting device to SLICE OFF the synthetic

skin from Data's arm. As Data prepares himself for the

worst...

THREE armored SECURITY GUARDS with phaser rifles run

into view, hit a control panel on the wall. A giant

EMERGENCY BULKHEAD comes SLAMMING down, cutting off the

rest of the corridor.

The security guards turn to run down the hall, but then

there is a high-pitched shriek of wrenching metal.

They drop to the deck and take combat stances.

They make adjustments to their weapons just as the

bulkhead doors EXPLODE INWARD in a blinding flash. The

guards shield themselves against the fire and debris...

looks up just in time to see the swift and lethal

shapes of the BORG jumping through the smashed

bulkhead, racing down the corridor toward them. The

guards FIRE, and when they do the PHASER BLASTS

alternate color -- red, blue, green, purple, orange --

a staccato of colors as the phasers shift frequency.

The phaser blasts TAKE DOWN a few of the BORG... but

then we see the distinctive PERSONAL FORCEFIELDS of the

other Borg begin to compensate, and the phasers no

longer affect them.

They turn to run but BORG PHASER FIRE lances out from

the Borg soldiers and RIPS them apart.

The mood is tense, grim. Riker, Worf and Troi are

gathered around a SCHEMATIC of the ENTERPRISE. The

lower portion of the ship has been blocked off by

the color RED, representing the Borg advance through

the ship. A they watch, another section of

compartments and corridors suddenly turn RED.

Riker lets out a wary breath, starts pointing to

various points along the schematic.

A grim beat.

They stare at the schematic.

Worf nods and EXITS. As Riker and Troi exchange a

tense look...

The hospital is completely LIT UP -- the only building

in town with this much power.

Picard walks down the hall, stops outside a door marked

"X-RAY PROCESSING." The RED LIGHT is on above the

door, but that means nothing to Picard... who opens the

door and steps inside...

Much like a traditional darkroom, trays of chemicals

and washes, etc. But everything has a slightly

futuristic and cobbled-together feel. They are

developing X-rays by hand instead of by machine. The

room is lit with an AMBER glow. As soon as Picard

opens the door, we hear Ruby's voice:

Picard quickly shuts the door behind him, looks around

the room. Ruby, who's working at a tray of chemicals,

turns around in fury.

She pulls down a small pane of glass (probably from a

window) out of a tub of water... holds it up to the

light. And there on the glass is a X-RAY of a man's

SKULL. Picard moves to her.

She glances at him, sees he feels genuinely bad. She

softens a little.

She picks up a rubber squeegee and carefully starts to

dry off the pane of glass.

The X-ray is now dry, and Ruby turns and looks at him.

Picard doesn't realize she was kidding -- jumps on the

opportunity to get the photos.

Ruby looks at him for a moment -- is he serious? She

gives him a curious smile.

Picard hesitates, smiles at her, tries to laugh it off.

Ruby walks past him with the X-ray...

Picard follows Ruby out into the corridor. She has a

satisfied smile on her face -- it's not easy to put one

over on this woman. And the truth is, she's enjoying

Picard's frustration. As they walk along...

She stops, turns, looks at him.

Ruby turns and walks off. Picard follows her, doggedly

determined to get those photos...

Beverly is holding the X-ray glass Ruby made up to the

light, as the Doctor seen earlier looks on.

As Beverly and the Doctor examine the X-ray, we MOVE TO

Ruby, who's looking down at Cochrane. He's still in

bed and on a respirator. She smoothes his hair with

affection. Picard stands on the other side of the bed,

watching her.

Ruby looks at him with a smile.

Her smile widens, and then she leaves the bed to join

the Doctor and Beverly. Picard shakes his head and

smiles after her -- chagrinned and amused at the same

time.

Ruby turns and heads for the door. Picard moves after

her.

She flashes him that smile again, then darts out the

door. Picard is left frustrated -- he knows that he

can't let it go at that...

Worf and a team of TEN SECURITY GUARDS are preparing

for battle. They're setting up large, heavy-duty

phaser equivalents of machine guns --  big, mean-looking

weapons on tripods. There are two of these weapons

aimed at each entrance to Engineering. The Security

Officers are strapping on body armor, checking weapons,

building makeshift barricades over each of the doors.

Worf is in command, directing the action.

Worf turns and picks up his BAT'LETH SWORD off a nearby

console. He checks the sharpness of the blade.

The Lieutenant decides not to pursue the matter and

moves off. Worf makes a quick practiced motion with

the sword... decides he's ready.

Riker and Troi watching the schematic.

Riker works a control and the display ZOOMS IN to

display a cutaway view of the ship highlighting

Engineering and the surrounding deck. A SWARM of DOTS

representing the Borg is advancing on Engineering.

Riker and Troi watch as the DOTS move closer...

closer...right up to the perimeter of Engineering.

The dots begin surrounding Engineering -- which looks

like it's being swarmed over by a sea of ants.

As before. The security guards have taken positions

around the room, all weapons trained on the doors.

Worf is standing in front of the warp core, Bat'leth in-

hand.

A massive HUM of power fills the room as all of the

phaser weapons begin charging. It's tense -- everyone

standing ready with their weapons charging. This is

the moment of truth.

Worf stands ready, phaser in one hand, Bat'leth in the

other. This is Worf at his purest -- the warrior ready

for battle.

Riker and Troi, as before, watching the schematic of

the ship. The DOTS representing Borg have now

completely surrounded Engineering on all sides,

including the deck directly above and below. In

essence, the Borg have cocooned Engineering from the

rest of the ship.

As before. Worf and the security team in their

positions, tense. A few beats of silence...then they

start to hear soft SCRATCHING coming from somewhere

behind the walls -- it sounds like rats skittering

through the walls and ceiling of an old house.

Everyone stays alert, checks and re-checks their

weapons... a couple of hard swallows... then from

somewhere up above a LOUD, METALLIC CLANG. Then a

large, SCRAPING SOUND that seems to start at one end of

the room and travel to the other. There's an

overpowering sense of creatures just outside those

walls, moving about. It's unnerving, even for crack

Starfleet troops.

Riker and Troi watching the display. The Borg dots

teeming around Engineering like ants on a candy bar.

The clawing, skittering, clanging noises increase and

get louder...

... we expect to see the Borg bursting into the room at

any moment. Worf tightens his grip on his Bat'leth,

teeth bared. Unbearable tension and then...

The noises begin to FADE AWAY... eventually

disappearing all together. If anything, the silence is

even scarier. Worf's eyes narrow. He looks around the

room, all his senses alert, waiting for the slightest

sign of the Borg... but nothing happens.

Riker and Troi react to the diagram as the Borg dots

begin moving away from Engineering. It looks like the

swarm of ants have left the candy bar and are on the

ground, moving toward the forward part of the ship.

OFF the mystery...

CLOSE ON DATA'S FACE. His eyes are closed -- he is in

the android equivalent of sleep. CAMERA ROTATING and

PUSHING IN on his face as we hear the overlapping

sounds of VOICES from Data's past -- Picard, Riker,

Troi, the Enterprise crew, aliens he's met, Data's own

voice... bits and pieces of his life...

The theme of the sound bites should be Data's quest for

humanity: Picard giving him advice, Troi counseling

him, Soong talking to his son, etc. The last line of

dialogue we hear is Data saying "I want to be more

human."

Data's eyes fly open, now awake. We PULL BACK

revealing that Data is still strapped to the Borg

operating table... his right arm and shoulder are

encased in some kind of strange cybernetic SHELL,

obscured from view. Clear tubes run out of the shell

into Borg machinery -- liquid is coursing through the

tubes. A couple of Borg drones are moving about the

room, carrying out various tasks.

There's been a change since we've been here last.

There are now several Plexiglass CYLINDERS surrounding

Data's table -- each of them filled with some kind of

murky red fluid, which is swirling around. Every once

in awhile, something that looks like RAW FLESH bumps up

against the clear Plexiglass, then disappears again.

We don't know what these tubes are for, but they're

definitely creepy.

Data takes all this in, but there is nothing he can do,

he's still immobilized.

Suddenly the table ROTATES and begins to MOVE up toward

the mist and cabling at the top of the ceiling. It

stops a few feet away... and Data finds himself face-to-

face with the Borg Queen again.

A WHOOSH of hydraulic power signals another movement by

the Borg Queen. She slithers through the air and down

slightly, so that she is on the same level as Data.

She looks at the cybernetic shell that is encasing

Data's right arm, which OPENS at her silent command and

moves away...

We can now see that all of the skin has been removed

from Data's right arm, showing the INNER-WORKINGS of

his android limb -- circuitry and servos, etc. But on

the top of the mechanical forearm there is something

new -- a small PATCH of HUMAN FLESH held in place with

various nasty-looking hooks and clamps and small tubes

carrying blood. It's a delicate, fragile piece of

organic life on an ugly, mechanical surface.

Data looks down at the patch of flesh with a little

puzzlement.

She smiles slightly, utterly confident. She leans her

face in close to Data's still immobilized right arm.

We are so close to the patch of flesh that we can see

the individual hairs. The Borg Queen's LIPS move into

frame, and she EXHALES a long and sensuous breath. We

see GOOSE BUMPS form on the skin, and the hairs stand

straight up in response.

As Data's eyes widen and he looks down at the skin in

surprise -- this is a sensation he's never felt before.

The Borg Queen sees the look on his face and smiles.

Data can barely describe the sensation. But clearly,

it was pleasurable.

He looks at her.

As she smiles...

A tiny, single-story house -- one or two rooms at the

most, in serious need of repair and maintenance. No

yard. The house sits on dirt. The nearest other

structure is at least a hundred yards away. A very

solitary place. The windows are dark, painted over

from the inside.

Some large pieces of exotic-looking EQUIPMENT are

sitting off the front porch.

After a beat, the front door opens, letting out a soft,

feeble light.

Ruby steps out onto the porch, carrying a gallon size

plastic jug. The light from the house now lights the

equipment a little, giving us a better view. There's

a contraption that appears to be a PUMP of some kind,

with a funnel on top, spigot at the bottom, and several

stages of filters and tubing in between. Ruby sets the

jug underneath the spigot... then sits down for a

moment on the edge of the porch. She takes a breath

and runs a hand through her hair, stretches her back,

trying to work out some of the kinks in her neck. An

exhausting day.

is watching her intently from afar. He's concealed

behind a supporting beam of one the town's many

WINDMILLS. He's in shadow, hidden from Ruby's view.

pulls off her jacket. she's wearing a pull-over

shirt... and in one motion she pulls off the shirt,

revealing only a tee-shirt underneath, sleeves torn off

long ago. She stands up... kicks off her boots...

undoes her pants... and begins sliding the jeans off

her hips...

is surprised. Glances around, a little awkward. This

really isn't why he came out here.

kicks aside the jeans. She's now down to tee-shirt and

panties. She grabs the bottom of the tee-shirt...

pulls it off...

doesn't want to look, but can't help himself...

moves to the side of the porch... and steps into a

large ENVIROMENTAL SUIT, a bulky one-piece with gloves

and helmet attached.

is a little relieved... keeps watching...

has now encased herself in the thick, rubbery suit...

pulls over a HELMET with a gas mask. She walks over to

an OIL DRUM marked with a distinctive BIO-HAZARD

SYMBOL. She carefully opens the lid... takes a metal

pitcher... reaches down into the drum and scoops out a

pitcher-full of TOXIC WASTE. She closes the lid, walks

over to the pump-filter contraption. She pours the

sludge-like waste into the funnel...primes the pump...

makes a few adjustments to the filters... and then

turns the spigot...

After a beat, a trickle of CLEAR LIQUID starts to come

out of the spigot. Ruby steps back and pulls off the

helmet.

watches, curious about what she's doing...

is now out of the bio-suit again... pulling on her

shirt and jeans... grabs her jacket... turns off the

lights in the house, and shuts the front door behind

her. She begins walking toward the windmill.

steps behind the girder, stays very still in the

shadows... waits quietly as Ruby passes by the windmill

without a glance and heads into town. After she's

gone, Picard steps out from his hiding place, watches

her go, then quickly heads for Ruby's house...

Picard opens the front door and goes inside... but he

doesn't notice that at the base of the doorjamb a small

RED LIGHT starts flashing -- some sort of silent alarm.

Picard ENTERS and closes the door behind him. It's

dark. He fumbles around for a light switch... finally

locates one... and a soft, golden glow fills the room.

The house has only one room, which functions as a

living room, kitchen, bedroom, etc. This is also

Ruby's DARKROOM. The windows have been painted black,

and there are photographic plates and futuristic photo-

equipment all around. But the most striking feature of

the house are the large, hanging cloth-printed

PHOTOGRAPHS. They vary in size and shape. Some are

hanging on walls, others hang from the ceiling in mid-

air, still others are stacked on the few pieces of

furniture that's here. The absence of paper has forced

Ruby to print photos on anything she can find --

bed sheets, shirts, pieces of upholstery, backs of

carpeting, etc. Picard stands there for a moment,

taking in the scene -- he's never been in anyplace

quite like this. The cloth photos give the room a

feeling of a small, intensely personal gallery.

Picard moves around the room, looking from photo to

photo... hunting for the elusive shots of the missile

silo... and as he does, we get our first close look at

Ruby's images, and they tell us a great deal about

her...

She has an artistic eye for finding beauty in the

mundane and the ugly. There are pictures of hope

amidst despair... beauty amongst devastation. There

seems to be a theme running through the photographs --

a romantic, almost idealistic sense of optimism.

At one point, Picard finds a photograph he recognizes.

It's the rusted-out hover car she photographed on the

streets of Resurrection. It's an ugly, decrepit piece

of junk... but there in the center, spot-lighted by a

single ray of sunshine... is a tiny flower about to

bloom.

Picard takes in the image for a brief moment... then

pushes onward... goes to a file of photos sitting in a

box... begins sorting through them quickly... we see

PRE-WAR photos printed on real paper. They show a

younger Ruby with her parents... Resurrection the way

it used to look... Ruby with a dog...

Picard pauses, frowns... gets the odd feeling that

someone is watching him. He turns around to see...

A three foot PHOTOGRAPH OF PICARD is drying in the air

behind him.

Ruby must've taken the photo when Picard was on the

street talking to Scrimm. It was taken through a

telephoto lens, a close-up of Picard's face -- he looks

focused, determined, heroic. It's a remarkable shot of

the Captain, and even Picard is a little taken aback by

the image. She's captured the essence of the man.

CLICK-CLACK! The sound of a shotgun being cocked.

Picard freezes... slowly turns around to see who's

there...

is standing in the open doorway, a shotgun leveled at

Picard.

Picard glances down at the doorway, sees the flashing

red light in the doorjamb. He's busted.

Picard glances at the photograph of himself.

She perches herself on the arm of a small couch, holds

the gun loosely, but never taking the aim away from

Picard.

Picard has to come up with something -- decides to

throw her off with a high-tech explanation.

Ruby eyes him evenly.

Ruby's had enough -- her temper flares and she gets off

the couch, takes a threatening step toward Picard.

Picard jumps in with a quiet, forceful quality:

She eyes him for a moment -- and we're not sure if his

words have had any effect.

Ruby still has her doubts, but decides to go with her

gut...and finally hands him the photographs. Picard

glances through them -- his expression tells us the

photo he needs is in there.

They share a look... and then Picard turns and walks

off into the night. Ruby watches him go... and we can

see on her face a confused jumble of mixed emotions.

Something about that man has touched her...

A telescopic, green and white image of Picard walking

away from Ruby's home.

is watching Picard through a set of night vision

binoculars, perched on the roof of a nearby building.

He frowns, wondering what Picard is up to...

The giant DEFLECTOR ARRAY at the front of the ship --

a giant, round, bowl-shaped array used for

communications and shielding. As we watch, FOUR

HATCHES OPEN surrounding the dish and BORG start to

emerge from the interior of the ship and CRAWL OUT on

the hull. The Borg do not need pressure suits or

breathing equipment -- they crawl around the hull with

ease and onto the deflector dish...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL:

Where Riker, Troi, Worf and N.D.s are watching this

image on the Viewscreen.

Riker stares at the screen... notices something.

The image on the Viewscreen ZOOMS IN to a specific

point on the deflector dish, giving us a clear view of

two Borg who have opened a gigantic panel on the dish.

They appear top be modifying power conduits in some

fashion.

The image now is overlaid with an INFRARED VIEW of what

they're doing. The power conduits are glowing bright

red, very hot -- we can see the heat signature travel

back behind the dish and connect to a corkscrew-shaped

coil, which is pulsing.

They think about this for a moment as they watch the

Borg swarming on the deflector array.

Riker shakes his head.

They think.

Riker looks a little wary at the suggestion.

OFF their expressions...

Another one of Ruby's cloth-printed photos, this one a

clear view of the base of the missile engines --

Cochrane standing underneath the massive rocket nozzle.

Above him on the fuselage is the crucial throttle-valve

assembly.

MOVE TO REVEAL we're in:

The cloth photo is hanging from a beam on the catwalk.

Geordi and Picard are watching a couple of N.D.s attach

the newly-built throttle assembly to the side of the

ship. The N.D.s are using high-tech welding tools and

sparks are flying. As they talk, they head back up the

catwalk toward the control room...

As Geordi and Picard ENTER. Lange is checking out a

launch console.

The room is now humming with power -- it's beginning to

look like the place is up and running. Picard stops

near the desk.

As they speak, CAMERA MOVES in on the metal canister

of lotion Picard set on the desk earlier...

Scrimm and three militia guards are huddled around a

cluster of military surveillance gear, listening to

Picard and Geordi's conversation. Far in the distance,

we can see the missile silo.

Scrimm and his men listen with growing alarm -- it

sounds like Picard is planning an invasion!

As before.

A console BUZZES. Lange moves to it, and activates a

small color video MONITOR. It shows an external view

of the MISSILE silo, just outside the hatch. Beverly

can be seen standing nearby with a now conscious

Zephram Cochrane.

Lange hits a couple of buttons...

A short time later. His head is bandaged, and he's

conscious, but frankly he looks like hell. He sits

back, looking a little overwhelmed.

Picard, Geordi and Beverly are standing around

Cochrane, who is sitting in a high-backed chair in a

corner of the Control Room.

He studies their faces -- sees they're serious. He

smiles a little ruefully.

Picard smiles.

Cochrane considers them...finally nods, what the hell.

Picard turns and walks off with Beverly. Geordi moves

to Cochrane with a little bit of awe.

Cochrane is touched by Geordi's obvious respect. They

shake hands.

Geordi smiles...

have moved to another part of the room. Beverly looks

exhausted. She sets her medkit on a table and plops

down into a chair. Mid-conversation.

She looks up with a smile, pulls a small DEVICE out of

the medkit -- a surgical transporter.

She's kidding, but Picard is a little defensive.

There is no animosity or hint of jealousy in Beverly's

attitude, she's simply making an observation about

someone she cares about.

Picard doesn't want to argue about this -- to him, it's

a pointless conversation.

She holds his look for a moment.

Picard turns and leaves. Beverly watches him go...

wondering whether her words had any affect...

Ruby is turning off the spigot on the filter-pump. The

plastic jug is now filled with the clear fluid --

silver halide. She caps the jug, picks it up, begins

walking up on the porch...then hesitates for a

moment... looks out over the horizon.

She hesitates... then frowns and goes inside...

Ruby comes inside, sets down the jug... begins to pick

up some more glass plates... stops... thinks... looks

up. Only a few feet away is the large picture of

Picard. She doesn't want to look at him, doesn't want

to think about him... but there he is.

She glances back at the open door... struggles for a

moment... then makes a decision.

Despite herself, she can't get Picard out of her head.

With a little frustration, she grabs her camera bag and

heads for the door...

in Earth orbit.

ANGLE ON CEILING as the Borg Queen descends from her

nesting place down towards the camera... ultimately

stopping just a few feet away. She speaks directly to

the camera.

His right hand is made of FLESH -- it has color,

fingernails, hair, sweat. It's completely human in

every way. His fingers move slightly, and then the

hand begins to rise. We follow his hand as it comes up

and touches his FACE, which is also FLESH. The gold

color is gone, his hair is tousled and natural-looking.

Even his eyes are real now -- blue. He touches his

face tentatively, his expression confused... but

intrigued.

The Borg Queen descends closer. Data's arms are now

free, but he is still restrained on the table. The

rest of his body is still android, mechanical.

Data touches his two hands together, feeling the

sensations, flesh against machine. He touches his face

and lips, discovering himself in a totally new way.

As he talks, we can see that he's becoming seduced by

his own newfound senses.

It's an amazing moment, Data riding a wave of feeling

and emotion like he's never had before. The Borg Queen

watches, pleased. She hovers close to him.

Data looks at her, suddenly shocked back into reality.

But his words have a certain hollow quality to them.

He is no longer as convinced as he was before and the

Borg Queen notes this immediately. She reaches out

with a hand and gently strokes Data's cheek.

She SLAPS him hard across the face. Data feels the

his mouth. He looks at her in surprise, but before he

can say anything she moves forward and KISSES him on

the mouth deeply and intensely. It's a disturbing and

erotic moment. She pulls back. Data reels, trying to

sort out the rapid succession of pleasure and pain.

Her voice drops to a whisper and she moves even closer

to him, face-to-face... seductive... beguiling.

She rubs her body against his, cat-like... then pulls

him to her and kisses him deeply. Off the image of

their bizarre embrace...

Riker, Worf, and three Security N.D.s are pulling on

SPACESUITS. The suits are form-fitting, sleek, no

bulky oxygen tanks. The helmets are the same -- they

conform to the contours of the skull and face.

The Security Officers check their phasers and wait as

Riker and Worf finish putting on their suits. Riker

straps a tool case to his suit.

Everyone nods. Riker goes to a wall panel and

activates the control. The Airlock door seen earlier

OPENS. Riker turns back to Troi.

Riker nods. Then he, Worf, and the Guards ENTER the

airlock and Troi close the door behind them.

A tiny room separating the Bridge from the outer hull.

Worf hits a control and the room DEPRESSURIZES with a

HISSING SOUND.

They all activate controls on their wrists and there is

a faint hum of power as the suits are magnetized.

Riker hits another control and the OUTER AIRLOCK DOOR

SLIDES OPEN, revealing the vast vacuum of SPACE. They

begin to walk out of the airlock...

As Riker and his team come out of the airlock on the

top of the saucer section. It's a spectacular sight as

the small group of figures, with weapons at the ready,

marches toward the leading edge of the saucer. The

scene is lit by light reflected by the Earth, which

hangs above the ship.

As they approach the edge. Worf gives a hand signal

and the rest of the team spreads out into a tactical

deployment and drops down onto their bellies. They

crawl up to the very edge of the saucer and pause.

Worf looks at Riker, who looks a little queasy.

Riker takes a few deep breaths to steady himself.

They all quickly scramble over the edge and onto the

underside of the saucer.

The CAMERA ROTATES AND SPINS with them as they

traverse to the underside of the hull -- they're

upside down relative to their previous position, but

there's no up or down in space and their magnetized

suits hold them to the hull.

It's a dizzying moment as we try to orient ourselves to

their new position. From this angle, the Enterprise

appears to be upside down!

Once they're on the underside of the saucer, they can

see the rest of the ship laid out above them.

The deflector dish (which is now

with dozens of Borg drones, who are working to modify

it. Some of them turn and see us.

Begin running toward the torpedo tube on the saucer.

(Running is difficult, they must keep one foot on the

hull at all times.) Several Borg PHASER SHOTS whip past

them as the Borg open fire.

A DOZEN of them leave the work on the dish and begin

skittering down (which is normally up) the

interconnecting dorsal on all fours toward our heroes

like a swarm of ants -- a frightening sight.

Is HIT by a phaser shot and goes FLYING OFF into space.

Riker reaches the opening to the torpedo tube, bends

down and opens the hatch. Borg phaser shots hitting

all around him. The open hatch cover provides some

protection from the Borg fire.

Worf and his team lie down on the hull and begin

exchanging fire with the approaching mass of Borg.

They pick off a few Borg, who also go FLYING into

space. As Riker begins to work...

Quick cuts:

-- Picard and Geordi strapping themselves into the

-- In the Control Room, the Starfleet N.D.s put on 21st

-- Cochrane sitting in his chair, holding his head, but

-- The BLAST DOOR begins closing.

-- Geordi's hands flipping switches, working the

OVER THESE SHOTS:

-- The Phoenix ENGINES at the base of the ship begin

The Security N.D.s moving about the control room, which

is now humming with power.

The huge steel blast door separating the control room

from the silo has been CLOSED.

Picard, Geordi making final adjustments to the control

panels. Both are wearing 21st century communications

headsets. Picard exchanges a look with Geordi.

A few monitors in the cockpit indicate that the

countdown is underway.

Lange and the other N.D.s watching the countdown.

Suddenly a console BUZZES. Lange goes to the monitor

seen earlier, hits a switch -- the monitor comes alive,

shows that

Lange reacts in surprise.

Picard and Geordi working the controls, watching the

readings, etc. We hear Lange's com voice:

Picard and Geordi react -- her timing is pretty bad.

Ruby standing by the hatch, trying to look calm...

gunpoint. The hatch hisses and POPS OPEN. Scrimm

shoves a gun into Ruby's side -- get going. As they

start to crawl inside...

Lange and the other N.D.s have focused their attention

on the countdown. Ruby climbs down the ladder, a tense

look on her face.

Suddenly, the three heavily-armed militia soldiers jump

down the ladder from the hatch. One of the Starfleet

N.D.s goes for a phaser, and a soldier BLASTS him

backward with a spray of bullets from his automatic

weapon. Everyone else freezes. A tense beat, then

Scrimm climbs down the ladder and looks around the

room...

Riker in the torpedo tube, frantically working. He

begins to physically MOVE the torpedo tube itself like

he's moving the barrel of a huge cannon... as he

struggles to aim it toward the huge deflector dish...

are about fifty feet away from Riker. From their prone

positions, they try to keep the Borg at bay, BLASTING

them off the hull one by one. They have taken cover

behind some outcroppings of equipment on the hull of

the ship. The Borg have to cross an open field of

metal to get to them, making then easy targets.

Suddenly the Borg change tactics. From the deflector

dish high above them, Borg begin LAUNCHING THEMSELVES

directly at the Starfleet Officers, jumping off the

dish and flying through the vacuum of space like

paratroopers. This tips the balance. There are too

many targets to defend from above and below. One of

the flying Borg CRASHES into a Security Guard and a

vicious hand-to-hand FIGHT erupts. The Borg SLASHES

the guard's pressure suit, which DEPRESSURIZES killing

the man instantly. Worf FIRES  a phaser blast into the

Borg, knocking him off the hull and into space.

Worf turns to Riker.

swings the torpedo tube into place, aiming it at the

deflector dish. He hits a control on the side of the

tube... and a QUANTUM TORPEDO automatically slides up

from below and LOCKS INTO position in the tube, like a

panel on the torpedo and begins working on the

circuitry.

Troi in command, watching the VIEWSCREEN, which shows

a different angle of the battle on the hull.

Monitors all around the Bridge show the countdown.

which says "SELF-DESTRUCT IN 6:24...6:23...6:22..."

The Sergeant is examining one of the monitors. The

display says "LIFT-OFF, T-MINUS 50 seconds...49...

48..."

Scrimm looks frustrated for a moment...then turns his

attention to Ruby.

As before.

As Picard reacts in shock...

INTERCUT:

Scrimm is now holding Ruby by the arm. He shoves the

com headset to her mouth.

Ruby is scared, but trying to keep it together.

Picard reacts to her voice, but keeps working the

controls, trying to concentrate. Scrimm draws his gun.

Geordi and Picard exchange a tense look. Picard

struggles. It's a difficult moment -- what does he do?

The countdown clock is approaching 15 seconds...14...

13...

Everything hangs in the balance -- Ruby's life, the

future of the Earth, Picard's feelings, his duty...

Finally, Picard reaches out hits a control -- the

countdown clock

Picard unstraps himself and takes off the headset.

Geordi quickly starts unstrapping himself...

Picard and Geordi stop outside the massive blast doors,

which are separating them from the control room.

Geordi looks at the blast doors... and he does so, the

electronic PUPILS in his eyes rotate, change shape and

color.

A high-tech INFRARED VIEW of the door, but we can't see

through it -- it's opaque.

Geordi moves off. Clearly, Picard has a plan...

Riker finishes working on the torpedo... he closes the

panel... turns and reaches for the fire control

mechanism. She glances up -- there's a BORG flying

through space directly at him! Riker tries to bring up

his phaser, but it's too late. The Borg SLAMS into

him.

Riker makes a desperate grab for the torpedo tube itself,

trying to hold on, but the momentum of the Borg impact

is too great -- they

away from the ship.

A shocked Troi watches Riker and the Borg tumbling away

into space on the Viewscreen. They are engaged in a

zero-gee hand to hand fight -- an incredible sight.

Scrimm still has the gun on Ruby. The blast door is

just being lowered, revealing Picard. Geordi has

returned to the Phoenix cockpit. A console separates

Picard and Scrimm.

Geordi is working a tricorder furiously. We're not

sure what he's doing...

As they tumble through the void of space, in a

desperate fight.

The Borg manages to get his hand around Riker's

throat... begins choking him... Riker looks like a

goner... Suddenly they are both enveloped in a BRIGHT

BEAM OF PULSING ENERGY.

Troi in command.

As the tractor beam from the Enterprise SPLITS in two

and separates Riker from the Borg. The second beam

disappears, throwing the Borg off into space, while

Riker is towed back toward the hull of the ship.

As the beam moves him back toward the ship.

A dizzying view of the stars and the Earth as he is

pulled through space.

Closes his eyes, fighting off waves of nausea.

Picard still stalling for time.

He shoves his gun against Ruby's head. The tension

rises a notch.

Geordi working the tricorder... he can hear their

conversation in the other room through an open com

channel...

The tricorder BEEPS and he smiles...

As before.

Scrimm smirks at him -- what gall this guy has. But

Ruby seems to discern some deeper meaning in Picard's

words. She frowns in puzzlement.

Picard looks at Ruby, and at that moment something on

a console behind her catches his eye: a LIGHT on

Beverly's SURGICAL TRANSPORTER is now FLASHING. No one

else notices.

Scrimm cocks back the hammer on the pistol he's holding

to Ruby's head. The following happens

-- Picard reaches out his hand, trying to stop Scrimm.

-- The gun in Scrimm's hand DEMATERIALIZES. Scrimm

reacts in shock.

-- Instantly, the gun REMATERIALIZES in Picard's

outstretched hand. He quickly pushes the barrel to

Scrimm's forehead.

Everyone is in the room stunned by what's happened.

Picard takes charge before anyone can recover.

There's a beat, but then Scrimm sees he has little

choice.

The other militia soldiers drop their weapons, which

are quickly picked up by Beverly and a Starfleet N.D.

Picard hands his gun to Lange, who covers Scrimm with

it.

Ruby turns to Picard.

Ruby throws her arms around him and pulls him close.

He hugs her back, grateful she's alive. Ruby pulls

away.

Picard smiles and heads back toward the Phoenix...

Riker slams into the hull and the BEAM goes OFF. He

gets his bearings quickly and then RUNS toward the

torpedo tube where Worf and his few remaining men are

still fighting the Borg, who are about to overrun their

position.

As before.

Geordi and Picard strapping themselves back in...

reaches the torpedo tube, pulls up the firing control

mechanism, which shows a monitor screen with a cross-

hair targeting display. He activates the monitor,

which begins tracking over toward the deflector dish.

Picard and Geordi's hands are flying across the

controls...

clamps a conduit into a power junction... then grabs

hold of a rotating lever inside the tube and TURNS it.

He ducks out of the way as the torpedo is LAUNCHED with

a ROAR.

As the torpedo streaks out from the saucer section and

slams into the deflector dish. The dish EXPLODES in a

burst of FLAME... blowing away the Borg who were

working on it...

As they IGNITE and start pouring out sheets of FLAME.

which is shuddering and shaking...

React with smiles. They did it.

Troi and the other N.D.s react with relief. The

countdown on the monitors are

as the concrete missile doors slide open and the

Phoenix is LAUNCHED up into the sky, riding a pillar of

fire and smoke. This is our first real look at the

ship and it resembles an oversized ICBM with a

specialized cockpit on top.

Lange and the other N.D.s have the militia soldiers

under guard. Ruby is watching the missile launch on a

video monitor. She smiles.

Picard and Geordi working the controls as the ship

bounces and shakes.

The g-forces push them back into their seats.

As the Phoenix rockets into space...

As before.

The rocket booster SHUTS DOWN as the ship leaves

Earth's orbit and coasts on its momentum. After a

beat, the first stage booster separates from the ship

and DROPS AWAY, leaving three-quarters of the ship in

space.

CLOSE ON DATA, head tilted back, eyes closed,

smiling...a few droplets of WATER fall from above onto

his face. He smiles wider, reveling in the sensation.

Data is still restrained on the table, but a conduit

has been placed above his head and is dripping

condensation onto his face. Data is now a completely

new being. His entire BODY is now made of HUMAN FLESH.

It's a shocking sight -- for anyone who ever wondered

what Data would look like human, we're now getting our

first look.

DESCENDS from her nest in the ceiling. She watches

Data for a moment... rubs the moisture into his face.

Data, although clearly enraptured with his new

sensations and feelings still struggles to maintain

his own sense of identity.

To his surprise, Data finds that he is becoming drawn

to this strange creature and all that she can offer

him.

He struggles, but ultimately there's only one answer.

Without taking her eyes away from Data, she reaches out

a hand and touches a control on a nearby console. The

color of Data's FACE turns an ASHEN GRAY --  as though

the blood has drained from his skin. Another droplet

of moisture falls and hits him on the cheek -- but this

time his eyes widen in shock.

The sensation of human feeling is gone.

She moves in close on him, an edge creeping into her

voice:

She hits the control, and the COLOR returns to his

face. Data gasps -- filled with

The Borg Queen runs her hand across his cheek -- her

attitude seductive and affectionate once again.

She touches the control again. Data is

into his cold, android self. He's like a heroin addict

being denied his "high" with the flick of a switch.

Data struggles, anguished... we've never seen him like

this before... completely beaten down... finally, he

nods. The Borg Queen touches the control again. A

sharp intake of breath as the feeling returns to Data.

And the Queen

This time, he responds eagerly, throwing himself into

the emotion of the moment. She pulls back a little,

looks at him softly, passionately. Data stares back at

her, breathless -- he seems to be completely in her

thrall.

OFF the Borg Queen's smile of victory...

As before. Picard and Geordi work the control in

silence for a few moments. The ship is floating in

space, now a good distance from Earth.

Geordi works his console...

Two fifty-foot long sheets of metal fall away from the

ship on either side of the Phoenix, revealing primitive

WARP NACELLES tucked inside the craft. The warp

nacelles then begin slowly extending themselves outward

on either side -- the basic designs of the nacelles

should be familiar to anyone who's ever seen a STAR

TREK starship.

This is the beginning of a long-standing architectural

design element of our ships.

As before.

The warp nacelles FLARE with power and the ship begins

moving forward in space.

They're SLAMMED BACK into their seats from the massive

G-forces.

Picard activates a monitor which begins showing a

digital display of their speed.

The ship is going faster...

Troi is standing outside the emergency airlock with the

Ensign, who is working the wall panel.

The airlock door OPENS after a beat, and Riker, Worf

and One Security Guard ENTER. They're exhausted after

the pitched battle. Troi smiles at them as they remove

their helmets.

He turns away and then doubles over behind a console

and begins vomiting off screen. Worf shrugs.

A light beat, and then suddenly the entire Bridge GOES

DARK -- ALL POWER GONE. Console, monitors, everything.

The Borg Queen is floating in the middle of the room,

surrounded by Borg consoles and technology. Data is

still on the table, with some kind of specialized

conduit connecting his head to a group of monitors,

which are inactive at the moment. He appears to be

caught up in the rapture of his new sensations, and his

personal connection to the Borg Queen. All thought of

his Starfleet responsibilities are gone.

Data thinks for a moment, and the monitors suddenly

COME TO LIFE and the equipment around the Queen HUMS

with POWER.

Information about critical Enterprise systems flows

across the monitor screens -- we might recognize

graphics from the Bridge displays. The Borg are now in

control.

Data nods... but then one of the consoles BEEPS.

Data tilts his head and --

shows an exterior space shot. The image rapidly ZOOMS

IN on the distant PHOENIX. The ship is racing through

space.

Data nods. Another console lights up. She moves to

work it herself...

As the ship turns and begins moving off at impulse

speed.

As before, Picard is now steering the ship with a 21st

century JOYSTICK CONTROL. The ship is moving faster

and faster, trembling now, a ROAR building.

The CABIN shakes a little.

WHOOSH! A weird DISTORTION passes through the cabin

like a wave, then vanishes.

The warp ship WHIPS by... and then a moment later, the

ENTERPRISE ROARS into view, chasing the tiny ship.

Geordi glances out the window... does a double-take and

looks back up in surprise...

No response.

As before, the Queen floating above the helm control

console. The warp ship is on the monitor, getting

closer.

A floating CROSSHAIR appears on the monitor showing the

warp ship. The Queen works the console. The crosshair

moves, but refuses to lock onto the warp ship. She

frowns.

Data looks puzzled.

The Queen works furiously, still can't get the

crosshairs to lock onto the ship.

She hits a series of Borg controls on a nearby

console... and the restraints holding Data to the table

are RELEASED. Two Borg drones move to him... as he

stands up and heads for the Queen, the specialized

cable still attached to his head...

closing in on the tiny warp ship. It's like a shark

chasing a guppy.

Ship SHAKING with power and acceleration.

Geordi glances out a side window.

The ship is really SHAKING HARD now -- and the

compartment is DISTORTING slightly, stretching,

everything becoming elongated...

The ship is STRETCHING in the familiar "rubber band

effect" that tells us a ship is going into warp... but

this effect is much

hitting warp speed. The Enterprise still on their

tail.

Data is standing right next to the Queen, and is

studying the Borg console intently. Two Borg drones

stand nearby, watching closely.

In the blink of an eye:

-- DATA WHIRLS AROUND AND SLAMS AN ARM INTO ONE OF THE

BORG DRONES. The drone is knocked off its feet.

-- The second Borg rushes at Data, swings his arm at

Data's head. This is the same Borg with the deadly

stiletto-tipped DRILL SPIKES seen earlier. The spikes

TEAR into the flesh of Data's neck, drawing BLOOD.

-- Data reacts in pain. He GRABS the Borg's arm and

with android strength KICKS HIM IN THE CHEST at the

same time. The Borg FLIES BACKWARD, causing the

cybernetic ARM to RIP from its socket in a shower of

sparks.

-- The Borg Queen SWOOPS down at Data for the kill.

But Data's too quick for her. With one swift motion,

he turns and THROWS the BORG ARM like a JAVELIN across

the room.

As the spikes on the severed Borg arm PUNCTURE one of

the

EXPLOSION of

tank. The WALL of roiling gas sweeps through the

entire Borg Hive.

She lunges at Data just as the gas envelopes them!

As it GOES INTO WARP -- it shoots forward and streaks

away from the Enterprise!

As Picard and Geordi are slammed back into their seats

and the stars WHIP PAST the windows in the familiar

warp effect.

Data and the Borg Queen tearing and clawing at each

other amongst the spewing gas. The Borg drones try to

get away, but they are SWALLOWED by the rush of gas,

fall to the deck, twitching in pain.

Data and the Borg Queen both fall to the deck,

grappling with each other.

As it STREAKS PAST -- the warp ship flying at top

speed.

Data and the Borg Queen struggling against each

other... the gas swirling around their bodies... and as

it does, we see the FLESH on their bodies start to

LIQUEFY and MELT AWAY in a horrific ooze of blood and

skin.

As before, but the ride has smoothed out considerably,

Warp stars streaking by.

A beat as Geordi works.

Out the front windows, the warp stars STOP... the ship

JOLTS slightly... turns to the left... Earth can be

seen in the distance.

They smile. It's a moment of victory.

The onrush of gas is gone. But it has affected every

surface of the room like an acid wash. Every piece of

Borg machinery is smoking and hissing. The two Borg

drones are lying on the floor, dead -- all organic

matter and flesh have been dissolved from their bodies,

leaving only raw mechanical skeletons.

MOVE TO REVEAL:

lying on the floor, still locked together. Data is a

shocking image: all of his human flesh has been

STRIPPED AWAY, leaving only his pure android self. His

metallic skull gleams in the dim light... even his eyes

are gone. His mechanical left arm is still intact, but

the right human arm is completely gone. His torso is

stripped of the human flesh, leaving pure android with

no soft human touches. Data as we've never seen him

before -- raw and mechanistic.

Data rolls over... still locked around him is the

MECHANICAL SKELETON of the Borg Queen. A metallic

spinal column with two arms with clawed hands leading

off it... and a blinking, electronic BRAIN STEM at the

very top of the spine.

Data throws off the grotesque form. The Borg Queen

carcass writhes and claws at the air. She speaks in a

flat, mechanical voice.

Data reaches out with one hand... grabs the metal

spinal column just below the brain stem... and SNAPS IT

IN TWO. The blinking brain stem FRITZES OUT.

Two Borg Drones moving down the hall suddenly stop...

twitch... the blinkies on their bodies GO OUT... and

they both FALL OVER DEAD. Their connection to their

Queen severed.

Another Borg Drone reacts... lights out... slumps over

DEAD.

Data releases the remains of the dead Borg Queen. He

leans back a little, as though exhausted by his

remarkable experience. CAMERA PULLS BACK, emphasizing

the loneliness of this smoking, scorched android

sitting alone in the ruins of the Borg Hive...

The missile doors now open, the ground badly scorched

from the launch. Scrimm and his militia guards are

sitting on the ground, while Lange and the other

Starfleet N.D. keep a watchful eye on them. Cochrane

is sitting against a rock, while Beverly checks him

over. Ruby is pacing, lost in thought...

Everyone looks up to see --

standing a few feet away, tired but triumphant.

Picard nods. Beverly, Lange and the N.D. look

relieved. Ruby takes a few steps toward Picard.

smiles up at Geordi.

Geordi smiles and walks over to him.

stop a few feet away from each other, their eyes

locked. They drink in sight of each other...

there's an undercurrent of unspoken feelings and words.

She smiles... he smiles back. A satisfying moment.

Townspeople along the Main Street. A sense of

urgency -- something's going on.

Suddenly something in the night sky catches their

attention. A BRIGHT LIGHT is moving down towards the

city. We now realize this is what people are reacting

to...

Just a hundred yards beyond the city limits we see the

massive VULCAN SCOUT SHIP SETTLING down onto the

ground. Dust flying everywhere. Windmill blades

spinning wildly from the exhaust.

squinting into the wind, trying to make out what's

happening...

A good distance away, but with a good view of the

entire scene. Riker, Worf, Beverly, Troi and Geordi

watching from a distance as the Vulcan ship LANDS.

Picard, Ruby and a bandaged, but much healthier Zephram

Cochrane watching the landing. People from town are

surging around them. Everyone is shocked and amazed at

what they're seeing. Picard watches with satisfaction --

this is the moment he's been waiting for.

Cochrane and Ruby are particularly awestruck.

settles, engines whining down... dust settling.

moves to Cochrane, takes him gently by the arm.

Cochrane looks a little bewildered, tries to grapple

with the moment.

Cochrane looks at him.

Cochrane looks at him for a moment... takes a breath,

nods...

They hear a mechanical WHIRR and a HISS of air.

as a HATCH opens on the Vulcan ship. The townspeople

behind them react with shock and fear... a few people

take a step back. Picard looks at Cochrane, who

hesitates for a moment... then finally takes a deep

breath... and strides out toward the alien ship. A man

alone about to change the course of human history.

Ruby moves closer to Picard and puts her arm around

him... and he puts his arm around her.

As the rest of our crew is enraptured by the moment...

they glance at each other with excitement as they watch

history unfold...

Cochrane stops a few feet away from the ship as the

hatch swings completely open... light streams out into

the night air... and THREE HOODED, ROBED FIGURES

EMERGE. They stand across from Cochrane -- a moment

frozen in time.

watching in awe...

watching...

pulls his hood back, revealing the familiar slanted

eyebrows and pointed ears, holding himself with that

austere, regal dignity we've come to associate with his

race. He steps forward to greet Cochrane... raises his

hand as if to wave.

Cochrane raises his hand automatically, as if to wave

in return...

But then the Vulcan splits his fingers in the classic

Vulcan greeting.

Cochrane tries to emulate the Vulcan hand-sign...but

can't quite do the awkward finger-split.

The Vulcan cocks an eyebrow at him. The very first

Alien-Human relationship is underway...

are now surrounded by townspeople, who are watching the

scene unfold...

Our heroes share a glance with each other and smile,

Riker taps his combadge.

The crew DEMATERIALIZES...

have now moved away from the crowd... no one paying

attention to them. The bright lights from the Vulcan

ship cast them in a dramatic silhouette. Picard turns

to Ruby. It's the moment he's been dreading. This is

goodbye. She looks at him.

Picard struggles... he doesn't want to do this, but

he's torn between his heart and his duty.

A long, difficult moment... then he lets her go...

turns and starts walking off into the night. She

stands where she is, watching him go with tears in her

eyes...

Picard hits his combadge.

He stops where he is.

Picard turns, looks back at Ruby. Their eyes meet...

and he makes the decision.

He starts walking towards her. She sees him coming...

starts running to him. She throws herself into his

arms and he holds her close. They kiss. A magical

moment, then...

They DEMATERIALIZE holding each other tight...

moving out of Earth orbit...

Riker, Worf, Troi, N.D.s. Picard ENTERS with Ruby.

Everyone reacts to seeing her there. Ruby stays in the

Turbolift, staring around the Bridge in amazement.

Picard takes her hand and leads her out onto the

Bridge.

Riker glances at Ruby uneasily.

He glances at Ruby again, awkward. But Picard finishes

his thought.

Picard sits in his chair. Riker hesitates.

Ruby stands stock-still, staring at Worf. Worf looks

up at her with a Klingon smile -- teeth and all.

Ruby manages a weak smile in return, then moves off to

stand next to Picard.

moving through space... and then the TEMPORAL VORTEX

forms directly ahead of it, as seen before. The ship

ENTERS the vortex...

The Enterprise EXITS the VORTEX and into Earth orbit.

As before.

Admiral Hayes appears.

The transmission ends. Ruby turns to Picard with

amazement.

Picard gives her a gentle smile. OFF the moment...

The great ship entering a Starfleet SPACE DOCK.

Geordi is directing a work crew of a dozen engineers,

as they clean up the room and repair the damage.

The N.D.s move off, making notes on their PADDS.

Geordi turns and sees Data standing in the doorway.

He's now been fully restored to his original android

self.

Geordi moves to him, puts a hand on his shoulder.

Geordi's smile fades a little as Data walks into the

room.

Geordi points over to a corner, where some N.D.s are

about to close a storage container. Data walks over.

Geordi goes with him. The N.D.s move aside, and Data

looks down into the storage container. The broken,

mangles pieces of machinery are all that's left of the

Borg Queen.

Data stares down at the remains with a haunted look.

A quiet beat.

Geordi smiles a little.

Data looks up at him -- his expression unreadable.

Geordi's smile fades. Data reaches out, closes the lid

on the storage container, turns and walks out of the

room. Geordi watches him go, left to wonder what Data

is really feeling.

Picard and Ruby walk up the familiar hilltop, and when

they reach the crest, we reveal...

A large memorial cordoned off by a chain. A PLAQUE on

the monument reads "On this spot, Man and Vulcan met

for the first time... and changed the course of

history. March 3rd, 2063."

step into view. They stare at the sculpture for a

moment.

Picard, Ruby and the monument are at the gates of

RESURRECTION CITY as it is in the 23rd century. This

is the place where man first reached out to the stars,

and the architecture has a distinctive uplifting

feeling -- spires reaching up toward the sky.

Shuttlecraft and aircars are taking off and landing.

The tiny Western town is now a thriving, futuristic

METROPOLIS.

As Picard and Ruby walk towards the city hand-in-

hand...

FADE TO BLACK.

ROLL CREDITS

