FADE IN:

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The wail of a siren grows out of the distance and very faintly

through the fog we see the headlights and flashing blue rack

lights of a police car coming toward us. It drops into a

dip, reappears almost immediately, hurtling down the center

of the deserted highway. It gets closer and closer until the

lights and siren fill our senses then zooms past us.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

A frightened SECURITY GUARD is tensed forward off the back

seat, his hands clutched into the fabric between the two

regular POLICE OFFICERS in front.

Through the windshield we can see the headlights pick up a

billboard announcing a 'new' housing development.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The squad car skids off the asphalt in front of the sign and

starts up a rutted dirt road. The sign tells us we are headed

for 'Pinewood Estates,' a housing development financed by

the Farmers Bank of Wisconsin.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The Security Guard is becoming more agitated. He wipes a

cold sweat off his brow. The blue flashers reflect off the

fog onto the faces of the men. Suddenly the Security Guard

lunges forward and slaps off the rack lights and siren.

The two Police Officers exchange an indulgent look.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

Using only its parking lights, the police car creeps up the

dirt road between skeletons of unfinished houses.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The windows are rolled down. Periodically one of the men

leans out for a better look at the terrain around them.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

The police car comes around a curve on the hillside and stops.

Above them on the next hill, a necklace of embers from a

grass fire and a burning tree flicker through the fog. The

men get out of the car.

The officer steps forward for a better look. Benny hangs on

his shoulder.

The officer strains to see through the fog.

The second officer is peering intently at something down

among the houses.

Benny and the officer look to where Mike is pointing. What

appears to be the beam of a powerful headlight bobs among

the houses below them. Further into the track another beam

of light moves slightly from right to left but seems otherwise

stationary.

One of the lights rises over a house and settles on the other

side.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

A light shines directly into our eyes. As it swings away

from us we realize that it was the searchlight on the police

car which is idling along the dirt road with its running

lights off. The fire on the hill gives the fog down here a

red tint.

INT. POLICE CAR - NIGHT

The police officers are beginning to feel anxious. Benny's

nervous fidgeting in the back seat doesn't help them any.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

The police car passes a road perpendicular to the one it is

on. A couple of houses down that road a faint glow spills

over the sides of an industrial dumpster. As we watch we

hear an eerie high pitched whistle, a shaft of light slowly

rises out of the metal box and seems to fly off between the

houses.

INT. FINISHED HOUSE - NIGHT

As a humanoid silhouette passes in front of the picture

window, a shaft of light floats by in the fog outside. The

silhouette continues around to look at the kitchen. It raises

a hand to eye level. There is a sharp "SNAP" and a hard-edged

cone of light shoots out of the darkness to capture the inside

of the kitchen and pulls back a three-dimensional image of

stove, sink, cupboards, electrical fixtures and walls to the

silhouette.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

The police car is parked in the middle of the dirt road.

Benny and the officers are intent on a light that reaches

them only in strobes as it moves through the houses in the

direction of the fire on the hill. The police searchlight

swings onto the house.

It is deathly silent.

Carrying a shotgun the officer motions Benny and Mike to fan

out on either side of him and, guns drawn, they cut across

the tract to where they last saw the bobbing light.

The fog quickly isolates them, heightening their fear. Each

man becomes acutely aware of the loudness of his breathing

and the crunch of his footsteps on the ground. They drift in

and out of visual contact with each other.

Benny freezes as he hears a burst of the high pitched whistle

sweep by on his left. He turns slowly to see, through the

ribs of an unfinished house, a shaft of the white light

pointing at a cement mixer.

The brilliant light swings toward him. Benny, his hands

trembling, raises the gun.

The light fixes on Benny and terrified he shakes off a couple

shots. The light goes out immediately.

INT. FINISHED HOUSE (BEDROOM) - NIGHT

We are looking at the back of the humanoid figure. It crosses

to a high window and looks out. The reddish tinge of the fog

outlines him.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

The men strain to see something through the silent fog.

Before Mike can answer, a strange percussive clicking sound

is heard. He pumps a shell in the chamber of his shotgun and

swallowing his fear moves toward the voices. They stop.

Benny, his flashlight throwing a feeble beam in front of

him, inches around the house looking for what he shot at. He

gets to where it should be but it's not there. His light

searches the area. There is nothing but a stack of lumber.

Shaking visibly he shuffles to it and peers around its corner.

Nothing. Benny relaxes and allows himself to breathe again.

Benny continues around the house. He flashes his light into

a doorway. There is nothing but framing. When he moves on, a

figure steps out of the darkness to fill the space, then

raises its arms. With a sharp snap cylindrical devices swing

off its wrist into its hands.

At the corner of the house Benny hears the snap and stops.

The high pitched whistle starts behind him. He stumbles around

to face a brilliant white light flying directly at him. Benny

screams in terror and fires at it. The light swerves and a

laser streak from one of the hand rockets sears Benny's chest

and knocks him to the ground in pain. Holding his shoulder

he watches the light rise and fall erratically between the

houses.

The officers watch in awe as the beam wobbles through the

air, then crashes to the earth.

Benny's beam flashes back.

The two men begin to trot toward the light. It swings wildly

around and, accompanied by the high-pitched whistle, starts

to stagger back up the hill. Benny and the officer break

into a run. They are on their way up the hill when the light

in front of them crashes to the earth. It rolls over and

lays still, the beam shooting straight up into the air. Benny

and the officer slow their pursuit, terrified of what they

might find. Suddenly a high-pitched whistle is bearing down

on them from behind. Before they can turn a light rockets

over their heads. With a rumble the hill begins to vibrate.

As they follow its flight, they see lights beginning to ripple

to life across the skin of a saucer-shaped spacecraft resting

at the edge of the forest on top of the hill. With a rumble

the hill begins to vibrate. Frightened, the officers stop.

INT. FINISHED HOUSE - NIGHT

The humanoid figure walks rapidly down the hall into the

kitchen. An indistinct image plays on the inside of its

faceplate and we hear the faint sounds of a percussive

language. Through the window over the sink we can see the

lights of the spaceship.

The rockets flip into the humanoid's gloved hands and it is

airborne out the open back door.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

From the road Benny and the officer watch as the humanoid

figure that just blasted over them flies between the trees

and into the white light emitting from the underbelly of the

spacecraft. The noise from the ship's power plant is deafening

as it begins to rise above the trees.

With Mike at the wheel the police car, its rack lights

flashing, fishtails up the dirt road and slides sideways to

a bone-jarring stop next to Benny and the officer. As they

jump out of the way they find themselves facing into the

super white beam of the figure that was in the house. They

are between it and the ship. At the angle that it is coming

up the hill, the light looks like it is heading directly for

them. This is too much for the officer and in terror he raises

his shotgun and fires wildly at it. The figure veers off and

disappears into the fog.

With an awesome roar the spacecraft reaches escape velocity

and hurtles into the night sky. The concussion waves knock

Benny and the officers off their feet.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

The escaped figure's light comes out of the fog at tree

height. We hear the high-pitched whistle of its rockets. A

burst of percussive language comes from behind the faceplate.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - NIGHT

The fires on the hillside have been renewed. Shaking, Benny

and the officer rise to their feet and start toward the light

shafting straight up from the figure lying on the hillside.

The only sound is police chatter coming out of the radio in

the open squad car.

EXT. LOGGING ROAD - NIGHT

An 18-wheeler with a load of logs lumbers past us.

INT. TRUCK - NIGHT

It feels cozy with the wipers slapping the rain off the

windshield. The DRIVER is trying to steal a cigarette out of

his snoring PARTNER'S pocket without waking him up. He gets

one and reaches for the lighter.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

The escaped figure banks around a blind corner.

INT. TRUCK - NIGHT

The driver gets a glimpse of something in his headlights and

slams on the brakes, but it is too late. The figure hits the

spoiler above the cab. We hear the smack of impact. One of

its boots scars the windshield.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - NIGHT

The figure bounces off the jack-knifing truck and like a

wounded bird tumbles through the air into the trees. With

the light spinning crazily, it plunges through the boughs

and smashes face first into the mud at the bottom of an

embankment. The strip lights on the sides of its helmet go

out.

EXT. TRUCK - NIGHT

The driver and his partner, standing in the shafts of the

high beams, are peering into the woods.

EXT. WOODS - NIGHT

The figure thrashes over on its back and tries to close a

shoulder-to-hip tear in its life-support suit. By the faint

identification light that flickers on and off inside its

helmet, we see a MAN FROM THE STARS. His skin is translucent

coral. He is gasping as our atmosphere mixes with his and

threatens to suffocate him.

Under his translucent skin a maze of veins and arteries extend

from a white mass that sits in the upper half of his head.

He is hairless. Underneath a graceful fore-head, transparent

eyelids droop over black pupilless eyes. The thin lips that

delineate his mouth are chalk-white.

He tries to clutch the edges of the tear together but is too

weak. His hands drop limply from the suit, allowing the rent

to gape open and reveal the translucent body underneath.

Behind the faceplate a piece of white light breaks off from

the shining mass in the STAR MAN'S head and moves down his

neck. Through the hole in the suit we see it arrive at the

top of his single lung. The white light spreads throughout

the organ like a phosphorescent tide. The STAR MAN lapses

into unconsciousness as we hear the truck pull away.

INT. HELICOPTER (COCKPIT) - DAWNBREAK

A light rain is falling.

We are looking through the windscreen at the gray landscape

passing under the helicopter. MARC SHERMIN, a grizzled man

in his mid-fifties with an honest stubborn face, shifts his

attention from the right side to the left side of the craft.

Below him he can see the road leading into the housing tract

is blocked by police cars. The helicopter leans into a banking

turn and the spacecraft's blackened landing site comes into

view. Below it an orange nylon tent has been erected over

the dead extraterrestrial. It glows from the inside. An Air

Force helicopter is parked on the other side of the burn.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - DAWNBREAK

A man in a white contamination suit is helping Benny and the

two officers into the Air Force helicopter. The three men

are glassy-eyed and wrapped in blankets. Benny has a bandage

across his chest. They look up at Shermin's descending

helicopter. They are still looking at it when they disappear

inside.

Shermin's unmarked S65 settles on the clearing. The nose

door is open and Shermin, carrying the hood of his

contamination suit, comes down the ladder. A tall homespun

man, also in a hoodless contamination suit, steps forward to

greet him.

Shermin takes a moment to look over at the tent, the green

hillside and the forest beyond. It is pastoral in the soft

light of dawn.

Bell's hands shake as he lights a new cigarette off the one

in his mouth.

He throws away the cigarette and begins to put on his

contamination hood. Shermin follows as they start for the

tent.

EXT. BLACKENED LANDING SITE - DAWNBREAK

Hooded, Bell and Shermin make their way past three suited

scientists examining the landscape with geiger counters and

other sensing instruments. With the coming of dawn and Bell's

handlight we can clearly see the pod indentations and the

huge black glass cup of earth that was fused by the energy

blasting out of the spaceship's power plant.

EXT. FOOT OF EMBANKMENT - DAWNBREAK

It is still raining.

The STAR MAN stirs and awakens with a start. He parts the

tear in his suit and looks at his lung through his translucent

body. It has changed in color from brown to a rich yellow

ocher. He takes several deep breaths of our atmosphere and

his lung expands and contracts easily. He conducts a quick

inventory of his damaged spacesuit, then struggles to his

knees and stands up.

INT. BIOQUARANTINE TENT (HOUSING TRACT) - DAWNBREAK

The sound of a powerful slow-speed drill greets Bell and

Shermin as they enter. The extraterrestrial is still on its

back with its helmet lights shining straight up. A hose that

extends from a portable gas chromatograph has been suction-

sealed to a corner of the faceplate. A SCIENTIST is making

adjustments at the chromatograph while his COMPANION is

monitoring the progress of the drill into the faceplate.

Both are wearing contamination suits.

A foam-lined coffin-shaped metal box is on the ground next

to one of the walls. Bell and Shermin approach the body.

Shermin's first look is at the faceplate, but all he can see

is his own reflection. His eyes travel down the body.

The gloved hands of the figure have only three fingers and a

thumb.

Shermin takes Bell's flashlight. He angles it at the

faceplate. As he leans in to follow the beam, the pitch of

the drill rises. He shifts the light. The drill breaks through

and the faceplate explodes out of the helmet. The men throw

themselves back in panic. When they turn back to look,

distorted impressions of the face inside the helmet reflect

on the glass of their contamination hoods. (Pause)

The other men approach the body but before they can bend to

it a burst of percussive language, followed by a low buzz,

comes from inside the extraterrestrial's helmet. The men

freeze. There is another burst of percussive language and a

projection beam shoots out of the helmet throwing the image

of the escaped STAR MAN onto one of the scientists. He jumps

aside and the beam falls out of focus and indistinct on the

tent wall behind him.

EXT. FOOT OF EMBANKMENT - DAWNBREAK

The STAR MAN is standing. We hear the sounds of his percussive

language coming from behind his mirrored faceplate.

His answer is nothing but the low buzz. He taps a series of

buttons on his chest panel and speaks again.

Again the buzz.

The buzz continues. He is very still for a moment. Then he

presses the palms of his hands together, prayer fashion, and

concentrates. When he pulls them apart, a blue force field

pulses between them. He stops at shoulder width. A solarized

aerial view of the United States forms on the force field. A

green dot appears in the area of western Wisconsin, a red

dot in the area of Death Valley, California. He drops his

hands to his lap and sits very still. The solarized compass

remains floating in the air in front of him. After a long

moment he reaches up and squeezes it into a ball that

disappears when his palms come together.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAWNBREAK

Shermin steps through the open bay door into a communications

room. The radar and radio consoles each have a TECHNICIAN. A

third technician, LYMAN, sits in front of a square of six

medium-sized television screens.

Lyman taps a code into the computer keyboard. There's a shower

of static on one of the TV screens. When it clears up GEORGE

FOX, mid-forties, hair slicked straight back, round wire-

rimmed glasses, is peering intently into the camera.

Major Bell enters the helicopter.

Fox sits silently for a second.

Fox knows Shermin is looking for a definite order.

The television screen is reduced to static. Shermin stares

at it blankly then Lyman turns it off.

EXT. HOUSING TRACT - MORNING

The lift off of Shermin's helicopter reveals contamination --

suited scientists slipping the dead extraterrestrial's coffin

into the Air Force helicopter.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

The STAR MAN, still in his life-support suit, looks surreal

in the twilight world under the canopy of firs. The morning

rain has gone. A hum of traffic pulls him across the hill to

a stand of alders that border the forest. Through the leaves

he can see a highway entering the sprawl of Eau Claire,

Wisconsin. The cars and trucks zipping along the asphalt are

of particular interest to him.

When he has absorbed them he walks through the trees to get

a better look at the town. On the wind he can hear shouts

from students boarding a line of yellow buses in front of a

grade school off to his right. Suburban houses have begun to

snuggle up to the base of the hill he is on.

Keeping to the tree line well above them he continues his

search for an avenue of escape. His head swivels to watch a

Volvo station wagon come down the street. It swings into the

driveway of the house directly below him and stops next to a

Mustang Hatchback. The back door opens and JENNY HAYDN, a

pretty girl in her mid-twenties, gets out carrying a crudely

lettered be-ribboned sign 'Welcome Back, Mrs. Haydn.' Female

voices drift up to the STAR MAN from inside the car.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

Jenny laughs and waves. With the Volvo moving away up the

street Jenny picks her newspaper off her walk and goes into

the house.

EXT. HILLSIDE - DAY

The STAR MAN presses on through the trees. He hears a light

plane overhead. He stops and watches until the branches cut

off his view. A path between two logs leads him to the tip

of a promontory. From behind the cedars growing there, he

sits and looks down on the center of Eau Claire.

Arm in arm, a YOUNG COUPLE meander through the trees. The

boy has a blanket over his shoulder and the girl's hair is

disheveled. Without seeing him, they walk past the STAR MAN

crouched in a thicket of small pines. After they've gone by,

he straightens up and watches them walk down toward the

highway.

EXT. HILLSIDE - LATE AFTERNOON

The sun is setting over suburban Eau Claire. The colors are

reflected in the STAR MAN's faceplate as he watches Jenny

push a hand mower over her back yard.

He takes a dusty gray marble out of a leg pocket and while

Jenny finishes the lawn he rolls it between his gloves. It

turns a glowing gold as it grows in size. When it reaches

the dimensions of a baseball, he brings it close to his

faceplate and speaks into it.

He opens his hands and the ball rises quickly into the sky.

Jenny is dumping the grass clippings into a garbage can at

the side of the house when the sudden motion of the message

ball catches her eye and she watches it quizzically until it

disappears.

EXT. WISCONSIN SKIES - LATE AFTERNOON

We are on the belly of Shermin's helicopter looking at the

tree tops rushing underneath.

INT. HELICOPTER - LATE AFTERNOON

Shermin is standing back of Lyman and Bell who are seated in

front of the square of television screens watching various

shots of the wooded landscape flowing by under them. Shermin

scrubs his hands over his face then bends over to stretch

his back.

Pause.

Lyman and the technicians tap out orders to their tracking

units and the views of the forest on three of the television

screens change to images from their microwave scanners,

neutron back scatters and doppler radar. On a fourth screen

the forward-looking infrared module begins creating a picture

of the UFO. The men relax as they recognize the configurations

of a light sea plane.

Shermin goes hand over hand along the overhead straps to the

radio operator. He begins to flip through a stack of telex

messages.

There is a buzz and a red dot appears in the center of one

of the screens.

He taps a three digit code and Fox comes into view.

A photograph of a very thin slab of yellow plastic pops up

on a second screen next to Fox. Above lines of glowing colored

dots are symbols of a hydrogen atom, pulsars, a nude man and

a woman and Earth's position in our solar system.

The television screen is reduced to static. Lyman shuts it

off.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

We are looking through the living room window at Jenny

watching television while she irons the clothes she plans to

wear to work tomorrow. The STAR MAN stands just outside the

light-fall in the back yard watching her.

A commercial interrupts the old movie with a jolly fat MAN

in a jumpsuit touting his used cars. The two words 'We

have...' are repeated constantly during the pitch. 'We have

automatics... We have sticks... We have colors... We have

financing...' ...

We move in close on the STAR MAN'S faceplate.

Jenny finishes the skirt, unplugs the iron, picks up the

clothes, shuts off the television, the light and heads

upstairs. Half way up she stops.

She turns around and looks down indecisively, then hurries

upstairs. A light goes on in the bedroom. The STAR MAN backs

away to look up at it. He can't see anything. He is on his

way to try and get in the side door when Jenny comes clumping

down the stairs in an old sweatshirt and pulling on a pair

of jeans. She disappears into the kitchen. Without warning

the door ahead of him is swung open and Jenny rushes out.

The STAR MAN barely has time to step into the shadows. Jenny

grabs the handle of one of the garbage cans lined against

the house and drags it down to the street. When she comes

back for the second one we see that the STAR MAN is no longer

in the shadows.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Jenny comes in and locks the door. She passes through the

kitchen and is on her way to the stairs when the STAR MAN

steps out of the darkness in the living room. A scream catches

in Jenny's throat.

Jenny bolts for the front door. At the end of the hallway

her foot catches in a phone cord pulling the phone off an

end table. The receiver is jarred out of its cradle. Jenny

regains her balance and gets to the door ahead of the STAR

MAN. She jerks it open, but the guard chain stops it three

inches from the jamb. Frantically, she tries again but the

chain holds.

The STAR MAN slams the door shut and reaches out to grab

her. She flails back at him. One of her hands strikes the

panel on his chest and the identification light comes on

inside his helmet. At the sight of the STAR MAN, Jenny begins

to scream. He presses her back against the wall and puts a

mittened hand over her mouth.

Jenny ceases her struggle and begins to cry. The STAR MAN

takes his hand away from her mouth.

Holding her with his eyes he grasps one of Jenny's hands and

lifts it up to look at it.

He raises a piece of skin off her wrist, rolls it between

his thumb and forefinger.

Jenny lets out a blood-curdling scream and strikes out at

him. Flashes of light erupt off his exposed chest where she

hits. The ferocity of her attack knocks him aside and she

sprints up the stairs.

The STAR MAN recovers and starts after her.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Jenny gets there two steps ahead of the STAR MAN. She slams

the door in his face and locks it. With him POUNDING ON THE

OUTSIDE, Jenny throws open the closet and begins rummaging

madly through the side pockets of her jackets and coats.

The POUNDING STOPS. It takes her a moment to hear the silence.

When she does, she whirls toward the door expecting the worst,

but it remains closed. She waits. All she can hear is the

sound of the rain. She intensifies her search.

She finds it in the pocket of a down jacket. The Army issue

.45 looks big in her hand. She releases the safety and, with

a wary eye on the door, reaches for the phone on the night

table next to the bed.

Long before the receiver gets to her ear, she can hear the

"BLEET" caused by the PHONE BEING OFF THE HOOK for so long

in the living room. She hangs up and walks around the bed to

sit on the corner facing the door. In the distance, we can

HEAR the THUMP OF AN APPROACHING HELICOPTER. After a moment's

indecision, Jenny gets up and releases the lock. Again she

waits.

Nothing happens. With the gun ready, she turns the knob and

opens the door a crack. The hallway is empty. She kicks off

her shoes and lets herself out of the bedroom.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

Jenny creeps toward the stairs in her stockinged feet. She

looks in the bathroom. The STAR MAN isn't there. She decides

to go downstairs.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

The STAR MAN isn't in the living room. Jenny sidles along

the wall for the front door. At the archway to the den a

hissing sound stops her. She peers around the molding. The

spill from the stairwell light provides the only illumination.

The STAR MAN is sitting on the edge of a chair with his back

to her. He is naked. A dot of light is HISSING around his

head. The shadows in the room make it difficult for Jenny to

tell exactly what is going on.

Pointing the .45 at the STAR MAN, she steps into the room

for a better look. The floor creaks and the STAR MAN turns

to her. Jenny shudders at what she sees. The STAR MAN is

holding an 8x10 color photograph of Jenny and a man in his

mid-twenties standing on a beach in their bathing suits.

The dot of light is copying the man's features onto the STAR

MAN'S translucent head. The top two-thirds of the face is

already done. Everything is perfect, even the eyes. Jenny

begins to tremble and lowers the gun.

She sags against the armchair, racked by sobs that are drowned

out by the FLAP OF THE APPROACHING HELICOPTER. The STAR MAN,

with the dot of light stopped on his left cheek, gets up and

takes the gun from her.

He drops it on the couch and raises his eyes to the sound of

the helicopter NOW DIRECTLY OVER THE HOUSE. THROUGH THE

WINDOWS, we can SEE the searchlight scouring the hillside

next to the back yard.

The STAR MAN returns to the picture and resumes his

transformation. He completes the chin, then continues downward

weaving skin and filling in the human characteristics over

the entire body.

INT. CLEAN ROOM (HOUSTON) - NIGHT

We come down an electrical cord that ends in a micro-phone,

then down further to DR. BERGEN, a tall thin balding man in

his late fifties dressed in the medical equivalent of a

contamination suit.

Using a laser light indicator Dr. Bergen shows us where.

INT. SMALL RECTANGULAR ROOM - NIGHT

Fox, another CIVILIAN and two MEN in uniform are watching

the autopsy on a bank of screens which show Dr. Bergen, the

room and various close-ups of the dead extraterrestrial lying

on a white glass table lit from underneath.

INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Shermin and his crew are glued to the monitors, watching the

autopsy from Houston.

Shermin and his crew share mixed reactions.

INT. JENNY'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAWNBREAK

Jenny, sitting on the floor with her arms wrapped around her

knees, is reflected in a mirror fastened to the back of the

closet door. The STAR MAN edges around the door to look at

himself in the glass. In baggy tan cords, a windbreaker and

a plaid shirt, buttoned all the way to the neck and a button

in the wrong hole halfway down the front, he looks like an

innocent abroad. He notices the shirt is askew across his

chest and, with his new hands, awkwardly resets the buttons.

He looks himself over. His movements resemble a human's but

are noticeably more precise.

The clothes seem right so he leans into the mirror to inspect

his face. He squeezes the skin on his cheeks, examines his

eyes, turns his head as far as he can to inspect the sides

of his face, folds his ears forward to check the skin behind

them and he even gives a good two-fisted tug to his hair to

see if it is on securely.

He turns from the mirror and goes over to where the .45 and

a leg pouch from his life-support suit are lying on the bed

next to a snapshot of the man whose identity he has taken.

In the picture the man is dressed exactly as the STAR MAN is

now. The STAR MAN picks up the gun and the pouch and, speaking

to Jenny in his own language, steps to the door and motions

for her to follow. Jenny consciously ignores him. The STAR

MAN comes over, reaches down and grabs her arm to pull her

to her feet. Jenny squirms back, but he holds her tight. She

looks at the hand, almost touches it, then up at the familiar

yet disturbingly unfamiliar face above her.

The STAR MAN gets her to her feet and hustles her out of the

room. On the dresser is Jenny's wedding picture. The man the

STAR MAN has become is her husband.

INT. HOUSE - DAWNBREAK

The STAR MAN pulls Jenny down the stairs.

The STAR MAN guides her into the entryway and reaches for

the front door. Realizing his intentions, Jenny increases

her struggle and manages to pull away.

The STAR MAN looks intently at her, then opens the front

door. He taps his chest, points to Jenny and motions to the

dawn outside.

As Jenny backs into the living room, the STAR MAN closes the

door. He raises the gun, examines it quickly, then with his

finger around the trigger, points it at Jenny.

The STAR MAN swings the muzzle sights across Jenny's body

and FIRES. A FLOOR VASE EXPLODES. Jenny turns to look at the

remains, then back to the STAR MAN.

EXT. JENNY'S HOUSE - DAWNBREAK

The Mustang is backing out of the driveway with Jenny behind

the wheel and the STAR MAN perched nervously on the passenger

seat.

INT. MUSTANG - DAWNBREAK

Wary of what will happen next, the STAR MAN watches Jenny

move the gear selector to the drive position.

The car jerks forward and he grabs the dashboard to keep

from toppling back in the seat.

During the ride up the block, his head swivels from side to

side trying to take in as much of the darkened urban landscape

as he can. When the car stops at a 'stop' sign, he looks at

Jenny questioningly.

She motions ahead and he turns to look at an inter-section

with streets running in three directions off of it. His eyes

question Jenny again.

She points right. After another look at Jenny, the STAR MAN

presses the palms of his hands together, concentrates briefly,

then slowly draws them apart. The force field appears between

them. On it the solarized view of the United States rotates

until the red destination dot is on his right. He drops his

hands and points to the right.

The satel compass continues to hover over the dashboard.

She starts her right turn without looking left and fails to

see a little MG approaching from that direction. The WAIL OF

THE AIR HORN startles Jenny and reflexively she slams on the

brakes.

The Mustang stalls and the MG squeals around them. Jenny

checks the STAR MAN. He has pressed himself against the

passenger door. The gun lies on the seat next to him. They

both look at it. The STAR MAN recovers and picks it up.

This time when Jenny puts the car into drive, the STAR MAN

is ready for the acceleration. The car completes the turn

and the compass rotates to its new heading. Looking at it

from this angle, Jenny suddenly recognizes it for what it

is: an aerial view of the United States.

The STAR MAN looks at her uncomprehendingly.

EXT. STREET - DAWNBREAK

The Mustang cruises through the industrial section of Eau

Claire.

INT. MUSTANG - DAWNBREAK

The STAR MAN is watching Jenny drive. A set of headlights

rushes TOWARD US in the other lane. Jenny twists around to

follow the car as it goes by and we SEE the desperation on

her face.

When she returns her attention to the road, she sneaks a

glance at the STAR MAN to see if her action has given away

her state of mind. His expression hasn't changed. Jenny takes

a deep breath and lets it out slowly. Uttering a phrase in

his own language, the STAR MAN touches the steering wheel.

With the same phrase in his language, he points to the 'gear

shift.'

He points to the dashboard. Jenny senses there is going to

be a great deal of misunderstanding if she uses more words.

She shakes her head 'no' and touches the steering wheel.

Jenny shakes her head 'no.'

Jenny sees a police car creeping across the intersection

ahead of her and interrupts the lesson to stare at it. The

STAR MAN looks to where she is looking.

He raises the gun off his lap. Jenny tries to distract him.

With his eyes on the police car the STAR MAN ignores her.

The STAR MAN is intent on the police car. Jenny gives up

trying to distract him. The patrol car passes out of their

view. The STAR MAN lowers the gun and looks at Jenny.

EXT. INTERSECTION - DAWN

We COME DOWN FROM a red light TO FIND the Mustang stopped

behind the limit line.

The light changes and the car proceeds straight across the

intersection.

INT. MUSTANG - DAWN

While the STAR MAN picks through the contents of the glove

compartment, Jenny looks for a way to escape. An all-night

laundromat is a possibility, but it's deserted. The STAR MAN

finds the switch on a flash-light and flicks it on and off.

He puts the flashlight in his lap along with the owner's

manual and gas slips and takes a stack of Discount Coupons

out of the glove compartment.

Jenny sees a set of headlights turn into the oncoming lane.

She slides her eyes toward the STAR MAN. He is busy looking

through the Coupons. Jenny measures the distance between the

Mustang and the oncoming lights. The STAR MAN holds up one

of the Coupons and points to a picture of the product.

He points to the cluster of letters that spells SAVE 35.

Jenny doesn't answer. The distance between the two vehicles

is narrowing rapidly.

Jenny sets her jaw and wrenches the steering wheel violently

to the left.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

The Mustang skids sideways across the center line. The

oncoming van jams on its brakes and swerves to its left.

Locked in a skid, it drifts toward the Mustang.

INT. MUSTANG - DAWN

The STAR MAN sucks himself back in terror as the van descends

on him. It swings past his window and clips the rear fender

of the Mustang. Both vehicles shudder to a stop. Jenny claws

at her door. It swings open. She is halfway out before the

STAR MAN manages to grab the tail of her sweatshirt. Jenny

begins to scream at the top of her lungs and keeps it up

while he tries to wrestle her down on the seat.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

A tall, raw-boned MAN in his late twenties storms around the

front of his van.

He kicks the Mustang.

The Man bends down to look at the struggle.

The STAR MAN increases his efforts and Jenny loses her grip

on one of the door frames.

The STAR MAN frees his right hand and blindly searches the

floor for the gun. He comes up with it and, shoving the barrel

in the Man's face, barks a harsh command in his language.

The Man freezes and Jenny stops struggling. It's suddenly

very quiet on the street.

The STAR MAN claps a hand over her mouth.

He keeps his eyes on the STAR MAN until he reaches the back

of the Mustang, steals a quick look at the license plate,

then blots for his van. The STAR MAN takes his hand off

Jenny's mouth and slams her back into her seat. Uttering an

expletive in his language he points the gun in her face and

keeping it there indicates the red dot on the satel compass

floating undisturbed above the dashboard.

EXT. STREET - DAWN

The Mustang moves back into the correct lane and continues

on.

INT. MUSTANG - DAWN

The STAR MAN just stares at her. She points to the gun.

Slowly, he lowers it to his lap.

EXT. ABANDONED LOGGING CAMP - EARLY MORNING

Shermin's helicopter is taking on fuel from an Army tanker

truck. The pilot and co-pilot are catching forty winks on

the grass next to the old bunkhouse.

INT. HELICOPTER - EARLY MORNING

Major Bell, bleary-eyed and unshaven, is huddled in front of

the television screens eating a breakfast off a styrofoam

plate. On the top left screen is a satellite picture of

Northern Michigan and half of Wisconsin taken with a Doppler

radar.

On the lower left screen is an infrared view of the same

area. Over both these views is a schematic of the state

boundaries and major cities. On the screens to the right of

these views are blow-ups of smaller sections of the overview.

Lyman and the radar technician are asleep on the floor. Seated

in front of the radio console Shermin is going through the

telex messages. Next to him the radio technician is bent

over the desk with his head in his forearms.

Shermin continues on through the messages. Bell asks the

computer to change the pictures on the screens. Rhythmically,

a sequence of images appears and disappears.

Bell stuffs his breakfast plate into a garbage bag and goes

to get a breath of fresh air in the open doorway. Shermin

stops at a point on the telex sheet. He reads the message to

himself again.

Bell shrugs.

EXT. WISCONSIN FOREST - EARLY MORNING

With a rush the helicopter rises out of the trees and thunders

away.

EXT. JENNY'S HOUSE - MORNING

There are Eau Claire police cars on the street. Shermin is

out back watching Bell pick his way down the hill. Through

the windows we see uniformed policemen in the living room.

The man standing next to her in the picture was her husband

and the witness said that was the guy who kidnapped her.

Throughout the above, Shermin has noticed a WOMAN in the

house next door peeping through her blinds at the activity

around Jenny's. She closes the drapes suddenly when she

realizes Shermin has spotted her.

EXT. NEXT-DOOR HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Shermin knocks and waits on the steps with Bell for someone

to answer. We hear a chain being pulled off and the door is

opened by a freckled-face MAN in his late thirties, dressed

in a business suit and wiping the traces of a breakfast from

around his mouth.

A WOMAN in a robe opens the door a little wider to include

herself in the conversation. She is as freckled as the man

and about the same age.

Shermin and Bell exchange a glance.

EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

Jenny's Mustang is sailing through the beautiful Wisconsin

farmland.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

The STAR MAN is copying the letters, upper and lower case,

from the Owner's Manual he found in the glove compartment,

onto the back of an envelope.

He draws the upper case but has to check the manual for the

lower case.

The STAR MAN looks up as they go by a farm.

He looks to Jenny for confirmation. She nods absently. He

returns to the alphabet.

He forms both the upper and lower case 'X-x' and shows them

to Jenny.

Without smiling the STAR MAN opens his mouth and emits a

short chirping laugh.

The STAR MAN laughs harder. Jenny watches him warily. He

starts to hiccup. He is unable to control it through the

laughter.

INT. SMALL RECTANGULAR ROOM - DAY

Shermin's image waits on the television screen. He is gaunt,

tired and visibly shaken. The picture sizzles and breaks up

intermittently. Fox and the three men who watched the autopsy

stride quickly into the room.

Static breaks up the t.v. picture. When it returns, Fox leans

toward the screen.

Almost reluctantly Shermin holds up Scott Haydn's picture.

EXT. INTERSTATE - AFTERNOON

Jenny's Mustang moves along through the traffic.

INT. MUSTANG - AFTERNOON

We are CLOSE ON the back of a ten-dollar bill.

We pull back as he holds the ten up to Jenny.

He holds up a quarter.

Confused, the STAR MAN puts the money back into Jenny's wallet

and reads the first card through its plastic window.

Under the license is a picture of Jenny smiling broadly. The

STAR MAN looks at Jenny, back at the picture, then imitates

the smile for Jenny.

He practices curling the corners of his mouth up into a smile.

One of them freezes as the Interstate curves and a glistening

skyline backlit by the afternoon sun comes into view across

a river.

He takes out his camera.

He points the white disc at Minneapolis. With a 'POP,' a

cone of light flashes out. It sucks back, almost instantly,

bringing with it a three-dimensional image of the skyline.

The car starts across the twin cities' bridge.

The STAR MAN looks at the gauge. Jenny scrunches against the

door to avoid contact with him.

She presses the accelerator to the floor. The car jumps

forward.

She takes her foot off the accelerator and the car quickly

slows down.

EXT. BRIDGE - AFTERNOON

The Mustang spurts forward a few yards.

It staggers down to a crawl.

The car leaps forward again.

It drops back to a crawl.

INT. MUSTANG - AFTERNOON

INT. MUSTANG - AFTERNOON

We are LOOKING DOWN Jenny's arm AT a gas station just off

Interstate 169 in the Minneapolis suburbs.

The STAR MAN contemplates the station as they pass it, then

turns to Jenny, puzzled:

There are no more gas stations in sight. The STAR MAN becomes

bored with the silence. He picks up Jenny's wallet. The

driver's license is familiar so he flips to the next window.

In it is a picture of an older man and woman standing in

front of a church.

She touches her chest.

Jenny nods.

We HEAR MODULATED CLICKS of his percussive LANGUAGE.

The STAR MAN spots a station on the other side of the

Interstate.

He taps the fuel gauge which has dipped below empty.

They both scan the horizon for a gas station. When one doesn't

come up immediately, the STAR MAN flips to the next picture

in the wallet. It is of the man he has become. He is leaning

against a fire truck, in uniform.

Silence. The STAR MAN catches her mood. A tear rolls down

Jenny's cheek.

Like closing a zipper, she slides her fingers across her

mouth.

The STAR MAN does as he is told. He doesn't like it, but he

does it. With his lips puckered, he looks straight down the

road. The car rises out of a gulley. Topping a knoll straight

ahead is a gas station with an enormous Exxon sign revolving

above it. With his lips firmly pressed together, he tugs

Jenny's sleeve and points.

The STAR MAN reaches forward and squeezes the satel compass

back into his palms.

EXT. GAS STATION - AFTERNOON

The Mustang comes up the off-ramp toward the pumps.

INT. MUSTANG - AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN'S hand closes around the butt of the .45 when

he sees the ATTENDANT step out of the office.

She shoves her hand into the pocket of her slacks showing

him what to do.

Jenny eases in next to the pumps and stops. The Attendant is

already coming around the front of the car.

The STAR MAN stuffs the gun into the left pocket of his baggy

cords just as the Attendant arrives at the driver's door.

The STAR MAN looks at Jenny for help. She sweeps her fingers

across her mouth to indicate her lips are sealed. The STAR

MAN peeks around her at the Attendant.

He leaves the window. The STAR MAN watches him until the

nozzle is in the Mustang, then pleased with himself, turns

to Jenny and lifts his face into a 'smile.'

EXT. GAS STATION - AFTERNOON

Jenny gets out of the car. When she straightens up, she finds

the STAR MAN staring at her over the roof. She slams the

door and strides rapidly in the direction of the ladies'

room. Stuffing the green pouch in his pocket, the STAR MAN

trots after her.

The STAR MAN looks at her but doesn't move. Jenny snarls in

frustration, then with the STAR MAN on her heels, stalks to

the ladies' room and throws open the door.

INT. LADIES' ROOM - AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN follows Jenny inside.

He checks out the stall.

Furious, Jenny steps around him and opens the door. She points

to the sign on it.

She continues out. The STAR MAN goes after her.

EXT. RESTROOMS - AFTERNOON

Jenny points to the sign on the next door.

She cracks the door for him.

He takes the door from her and pushes it open for a look

inside. Jenny ducks into the ladies' room. He is confused

for a moment then takes a long look at the men's room. It

means nothing to him. He backs out and tries the ladies'

room. It is locked. Not knowing what to do, the STAR MAN

stands uncomfortably in front of the door, then like a child

waiting for his mother, he sits on the curb. He watches the

Attendant lift the Mustang's hood and reach in for the

dipstick. The numbers on the pumps turn over, adding up the

gallons and the cost of the gas.

Everything is peaceful and quiet within the circle of light

cast by the gas station. The STAR MAN pulls the camera disc

out of his pocket and points it at the pumps. The cone of

light flashes out and pulls back its three-dimensional image.

The Attendant turns around and waves genially at the STAR

MAN, who waves back a perfect imitation of the gesture.

The SHARP RUMBLE of a SOUPED-UP HONDA MOTORCYCLE coming up

the off-ramp shatters the mood and the STAR MAN gets to his

feet.

He is startled by the image of the RIDER. In a one piece

driving skin and helmet he looks amazingly like a space

traveller. The STAR MAN steps cautiously forward for a better

look and mutters something to himself in his language. The

rider stops his bike at the second row of pumps and swings

himself stiffly out of the seat.

Without taking off his helmet, the Rider sets out for the

men's room.

The rider's approach frightens the STAR MAN. He backs up to

the ladies' room door and knocks. There is no answer. He

tries the knob. With the other hand he inches the gun slightly

out of his pocket.

INT. LADIES' ROOM - AFTERNOON

Jenny is bent over the sink dabbing nail polish around the

corners of a paper towel. Her head snaps around to look at

the doorknob. It holds.

EXT. RESTROOMS - AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN tenses and forces a smile as the Rider passes

in front of him. A VOICE comes from behind the faceplate.

The rider enters the men's room. As the door closes behind

him, the STAR MAN's face falls and he knocks frantically on

the ladies' room door. Jenny opens it under his knuckles. He

blocks the doorway and she backs up as he steps inside.

INT. LADIES' ROOM - AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN looks around. Jenny's eyes widen at what is

happening behind him. The pneumatic arm above the door is

pulling it shut to reveal her paper towel pasted to the back.

The message on it, written in red lipstick, reads: KIDNAPPED

GOING W ON 169 JADE MUS. LIC#PXV237.

She tries to swing the door open and hide her message against

the wall, but she is too slow. The STAR MAN sees it and steps

forward to read.

Jenny realizes he doesn't know what it means.

Other graffiti on the door helps convince the STAR MAN Jenny's

message has nothing to do with him and after a last look at

it, he follows her.

EXT. GAS STATION - AFTERNOON

A CAN of Coke CLATTERS DOWN the chute of a drink dispenser.

Jenny picks it up and, with the STAR MAN hovering at her

shoulder, moves on to the candy machine. He watches a quarter

disappear into the slot and when Jenny picks another one out

of her purse, he points to it.

She inserts the quarter and makes her selection. A Reese's

Peanut Butter Cup drops from its position into the pickup

bin.

Using the change from this and another quarter, she selects

an Almond Joy.

She hands him a twenty.

He goes to make change.

Jenny pops the top on the Coke can and on the way to the car

takes a sip.

The STAR MAN fills his mouth, swirls it around and swallows.

He hands the can back to Jenny. She looks at it and knows

there are alien bacteria there her body would not like to

meet.

The STAR MAN takes another drink. He stops dead when he lowers

the can. Jenny continues for a few steps before she realizes

he isn't with her. She looks back over her shoulder. Her

eyes go immediately to where he is looking. The license plate

PXV 237 hangs like an accusation on the front bumper of the

Mustang. Jenny decides to brazen it out.

INT. MUSTANG - AFTERNOON

Jenny and the STAR MAN ride along in tight-lipped silence.

Jenny ignores him.

She flinches but remains silent. The STAR MAN snatches the

paper towel off his lap and flaps it in her face, jabbing at

the word violently with a forefinger.

Jenny can't take it anymore and screams back at him through

tears.

Jenny's outburst rocks the STAR MAN back into silence. He

waits for her to calm down, then slowly takes the gun out of

his pocket.

She doesn't dare look at him.

EXT. INTERSTATE - NIGHT

Jenny speeds up to pass a truckload of horses.

She doesn't answer. The car passes the truck. The highway

before them is empty.

Jenny TURNS ON the RADIO and finds a COUNTRY AND WESTERN

STATION.

It is pleasing to him and he listens for a while, then reaches

in his pouch and takes out one of the dusty gray marbles. He

rolls it between his palms. It changes to a glowing gold as

it grows to the size of a baseball.

The STAR MAN brings the globe close to his mouth and speaks

into it.

The STAR MAN opens his hands and, to Jenny's astonishment,

the ball rises quickly and seeps through her roof without

leaving a trace.

EXT. INTERSTATE - NIGHT

The Mustang swerves violently, then straightens itself as

the ball comes through the roof and surges into the sky.

EXT. SKY - NIGHT

Unexpectedly, Shermin's helicopter storms into view. It is

so close we can count the rivets. As it clears, we go to:

INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The flow of traffic on the Interstate below is being fed

into the six television screens from infrared cameras on the

belly of the craft. The image on the screen under the master

begins to move and ends in a close-up of a green Mustang.

It's not Jenny's. With a buzz the red dot appears and Fox's

face interrupts the view of the Mustang.

Shermin rubs his hands over his face while he digests this.

His image is replaced by one of the highway.

Bell and Lyman look at their feet.

It's Shermin's turn to look at his feet.

On one of the screens behind him the camera has picked up a

lighted billboard advertising 'Kellogg's Corn Flakes' with

its slogan 'HAVE A GREAT DAY.'

EXT. HIGHWAY - EARLY MORNING

Jenny's Mustang is barreling along well over the speed limit.

As it PASSES US, we PAN WITH it TO a sign: SLOW FOR

INTERSECTION.

EXT. INTERSECTION - EARLY MORNING

A truckload of corn is hurtling down ON US from the north.

An empty semi is rumbling up from the south. The light is in

their favor.

INT. MUSTANG - EARLY MORNING

The STAR MAN is driving. It is obvious that he doesn't see

the red light facing him. But Jenny does. And she also sees

the trucks closing in from either side.

The STAR MAN doesn't see it, doesn't believe her, doesn't

slow down.

EXT. INTERSECTION - EARLY MORNING

It is as if all three vehicles have heard Jenny. They slam

on their brakes at the same time and begin to skid toward

each other. It's going to be close.

INT. MUSTANG - EARLY MORNING

The prows of the trucks loom over Jenny and the STAR MAN

and, for a fleeting instant, it looks like they will join

the bugs imbedded in the radiators.

EXT. INTERSECTION - EARLY MORNING

The Mustang barely squeaks through and the trucks slam into

each other behind it, spilling corn all over the highway.

INT. MUSTANG - EARLY MORNING

It finally comes to a stop on the center line.

The STAR MAN looks back for the traffic light. It is hanging

from a pole in the middle of the road. Under it the truck

DRIVERS are climbing out of the cabs.

The STAR MAN angles back into his lane and begins to pick up

speed.

EXT. SIOUX FALLS - SOUTH DAKOTA - DAY

Deftly, the STAR MAN moves in and out of the afternoon

traffic. A bus coming in the other direction hits a pothole

filled with water and the SPLASH covers the Mustang.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

Jenny watches the STAR MAN calmly turn on the wipers and the

washer and clean the windshield. The light above the

intersection ahead turns red and, even though he is still

fiddling with the wipers, the STAR MAN manages a smooth stop

back of the crosswalk.

The light changes and the STAR MAN continues down the street.

The answer is hovering above the city in front of them.

The STAR MAN is unyielding.

Jenny slams herself angrily back in the seat.

Her upper lip trembles and, in spite of herself, she might

cry. The STAR MAN sees the center lane is open. He checks

his side mirror and drifts over, only to be caught by a light.

The car is still rolling when Jenny makes her move. She throws

open the door and, by the time the STAR MAN turns around,

she is out and running.

He takes his foot off the brake to go after her and the car

lurches into the cross traffic. He clambers back behind the

wheel, regains control and cuts a hard right in front of the

other car waiting at the light.

EXT. STREET - SIOUX FALLS - DAY

Over her shoulder, Jenny can see the Mustang coming. She

dodges up a brick walkway toward a J.C. Penney shopping mall.

The Mustang skids to a stop at the curb. The STAR MAN jumps

out in time to see Jenny push her way past a stream of

pedestrian traffic and enter the mall. He leaves the car and

zigzags through the people in that direction.

INT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY

As he barges in, the STAR MAN accidentally knocks a cup of

Coke out of a YOUNG MAN's hand.

In a panic to find Jenny, he continues jostling past people

to look in the shops that border the atrium.

MEZZANINE

Jenny warily approaches the railing and peers over. Below

her the STAR MAN comes out of a record store. She turns away

and gets on the escalator to the second floor.

ON THE GROUND FLOOR

The STAR MAN thinks he sees Jenny in an electronics store,

but when the girl turns around, it is obviously not her.

Backing out of there, he knocks over a sandwich board

advertising a restaurant. The LOUD THWACK it makes when it

hits the cement turns faces in his direction.

Jenny's is not among them. His eyes raise to the mezzanine.

Maybe she's there. He looks wildly around for a way up. He

spots the escalator and, trying to keep the upper floor in

view while he runs for it, he slams into an unattended pram.

It begins to tip over. The BABY INSIDE SCREAMS. The STAR MAN

manages to snatch it out of the carriage before it hits the

floor. He is looking for a place to put it when the MOTHER

comes charging out of a plant store.

The STAR MAN holds the baby out to her.

She grabs it out of his hands and he turns to leave.

Two tough-looking MEN in T-shirts step in to block the STAR

MAN's way to the escalator.

Not understanding, the STAR MAN tries to get by them. They

push him back.

A tall, skinny blond man with spectacles elbows his way to

the Mother.

Two steps and Burt is on the STAR MAN. He spins him around.

He throws him back against the crowd that has gathered.

Burt pulls the STAR MAN up by his shirt front and shakes

him.

Fear erases the STAR MAN's tenuous grasp of English and he

begins to jabber in his own language. This makes Burt even

madder.

SECOND FLOOR

Jenny has just gotten on the escalator to the third floor

when she hears her name. She knows she shouldn't but she

gets off and joins the crowd at the railing. From there, she

can see the STAR MAN trapped in a circle of people. He clubs

Burt away from him and tries to thrash his way out of the

mob.

One of the T-shirts throws him back and Burt begins to punch

him. We MOVE IN UNTIL we are CLOSE ON Jenny's face.

GROUND FLOOR

Some of the onlookers have joined Burt in his attempt to

bring the STAR MAN down. Growling in his own language, the

STAR MAN fights back as best he can. The sleeve of his

windbreaker is torn. One of the T-shirts lands a blow on his

right shoulder that turns the STAR MAN around. He takes a

blow on the chest. Another in the kidneys. Burt gets a grip

on the STAR MAN's left wrist and holds on. The attackers

close in. Jenny's voice cuts through the din.

She barges into the fray and starts peeling the men away

from the STAR MAN.

The men do. Jenny pushes the sleeve of the torn wind-breaker

back up on the STAR MAN's shoulder.

She starts to push out of the circle. Burt steps in to block

her.

She stares at him until he does, then leads the STAR MAN

down the path that opens for them in the crowd. They pass a

MALL GUARD who has just arrived.

EXT. STREET - SIOUX FALLS - DAY

Still shaken, the STAR MAN nods. Jenny realizes that it is

comforting to him to have his hand in hers and she leads him

like a child down the sidewalk to the Mustang.

The Mall Guard follows them down the walk-way and watches

them drive off. He scribbles the license number in his

notebook.

INT. GREYHOUND BUS STATION - SIOUX FALLS - DAY

At the counter Jenny puts her Visa card back into her wallet

while the CLERK staples the pages of a ticket into a travel

folder.

We FOLLOW Jenny THROUGH the people milling around the benches

in the waiting area TO the STAR MAN seated in an open-faced

coffee shop. He is watching a MOTHER feed her baby in the

booth across from him. A map of the United States is spread

out on the formica. Jenny plunks herself down catty-cornered

from him. The tear in his sleeve has been closed with safety

pins.

The STAR MAN looks at the map. Lathrop Wells is a small town

north of Las Vegas on Highway 95. From there he runs his

finger to a spot in the Funeral Range of Death Valley.

The STAR MAN nods that he understands.

Jenny takes a few sweeps at an imaginary highway with her

thumb. The stares this pantomime draws make the STAR MAN

more nervous about the bus trip than he already is.

The STAR MAN stops.

Jenny pushes open a glass door to:

EXT. LOADING PLATFORM - DAY

The STAR MAN hangs back when he sees the security guards.

She maneuvers him into the end of the line.

She takes some of the paper money out of her wallet and stuffs

it in his pocket.

The line moves forward a step.

He watches her walk away.

Jenny comes back and takes his hand.

A family of four climbs aboard and the line moves up. The

STAR MAN is alert to everything happening on the platform.

Jenny sneaks him an affectionate look. No one in front of

him has baggage to check and they move quickly past the DRIVER

until the STAR MAN is next in line.

The STAR MAN hands the Driver his ticket. The Driver rips

out the first coupon and hands it back.

When they stop at the door, she impulsively kisses him on

the cheek.

The STAR MAN climbs the steps just ahead of him. The door

closes. Its ENGINE REVVING, the bus backs out of its stall.

Jenny catches a glimpse of the STAR MAN bent over in the

aisle looking out at her. She waves until the bus rounds the

building.

EXT. GREYHOUND PARKING LOT - DAY

Jenny's green Mustang loops around the end of a row of cars

and heads for the street.

INT. MUSTANG - DAY

LOOKING OVER Jenny's SHOULDER, we SEE the Star Man waiting

for her at the curb.

She stops next to him and rolls down her window.

Jenny moans and lays her head on the vinyl of the window

sill. When she raises up, he smiles at her.

INT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY

Shermin is standing next to the security guard in the middle

of a knot of shouting people.

We move in on a lapel mike pinned to the front of Shermin's

shirt.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

The hubbub in the shopping center is being recorded on a

tape deck. Lyman, a phone to his ear, is seated in front of

the television screens.

He hangs up and heads for the rear door. Jenny Haydn's current

Visa statement occupies the upper left screen. The last two

items are circled: The charge for the Greyhound ticket and

the credit for the return of that ticket.

EXT. SHOPPING MALL - DAY

The security guard tags Shermin into the parking lot.

Shermin sees Lyman come out of the crowd surrounding the

police cars in front of the helicopter.

Lyman meets them. It is obvious he has something to tell

Shermin.

EXT. INTERSTATE 29 - DAY

The Mustang cruises along between fields of corn.

INT./EXT. MUSTANG - DAY

The following conversation will be played over various views

of Americana: a station wagon load of kids, waving and

laughing, lovers kissing at a bus stop, billboards, car lots,

a dog taking a leak against a tree, cheerleaders practicing

on a football field, a funeral cortege, a telephone repairman

up on a pole.

Pause. Jenny feels the STAR MAN staring at her. She turns to

look at him. His gaze doesn't waver. She looks back at the

road, then back at the STAR MAN.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

Jenny's Mustang is whipping west out of Lincoln, Nebraska.

We HEAR A JUMBLE OF RADIO STATIONS as the SELECTOR is RUN

THROUGH THE FREQUENCIES.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

Jenny is driving. The STAR MAN finds a RELIGIOUS STATION ON

the RADIO.

Jenny is tired. She doesn't want to get into that.

The STAR MAN lets it drop and finds a COUNTRY AND WESTERN

STATION.

Jenny smiles at him, then:

She TURNS OFF the RADIO.

He turns away from her, clears his throat and begins. His

singing is like nothing we have ever heard. Vibrations of

tones and glottal stops blend into a haunting, seductive

fugue. The STAR MAN stops.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

With the STAR MAN's SERENADE WAFTING over the Nebraska plains,

we FALL BACK TO FIND a Highway Patrol car tagging along at a

safe distance behind the Mustang.

EXT. BEST WESTERN MOTEL - NIGHT

The STAR MAN stops the Mustang in front of the office. He

and Jenny get out and go inside. As the door closes on them,

three Nebraska Highway Patrol cars speed up the off-ramp.

The lead car turns right on a surface street and enters the

motel parking lot at the far end.

The middle car goes straight across the intersection and

positions itself at the curb next to the driveway, giving

access to a frontage road which leads to an on-ramp. The

last car also turns right on the surface street, but parks

in a restaurant parking lot directly across from the office.

INT. OFFICE - BEST WESTERN MOTEL - NIGHT

In answer to Jenny's bell, the night CLERK comes out of the

living quarters in the back, finger combing his sleep-rumpled

hair.

Drawn by the bright colors on their covers, the STAR MAN

wanders over to the magazine rack. By chance, he selects a

copy of 'Playgirl' and begins to look through it.

From behind the STAR MAN, we WATCH Jenny react to the open

Playgirl centerfold that he is holding up.

Although we cannot see it, we know what he is pointing at.

The STAR MAN swivels the picture around so that he can see

it. Jenny hands the smirking Clerk her credit card. He steps

to the side and inserts it into the imprinter. Out of the

corner of his eye, he sees a dot of light leave the STAR

MAN's forehead to drop behind the magazine and into his

trousers.

The Clerk glances over at Jenny to see if she hears the

HISSING that is going on behind the STAR MAN's fly. She does

and she hopes it'll stop soon. His eyes on the STAR MAN, the

Clerk fumbles the key to 117 off the rack.

He drops the key on the counter.

INT. MIDDLE PATROL CAR - NIGHT

Through his side window, the DRIVER can see the motel office.

INT. LAST PATROL CAR - NIGHT

In the office, he can see Jenny and the STAR MAN leave the

counter and head for the door. He raises a pair of binoculars

to his eyes for a good head-on look at them.

THROUGH THE BINOCULARS

We SEE Jenny and the STAR MAN come out of the motel office.

BACK TO SCENE

The Second Officer lowers the glasses and looks down at the

telex pictures of Jenny and the STAR MAN taped to the

dashboard.

INT. LEAD PATROL CAR - NIGHT

THROUGH the WINDSHIELD, we can SEE Jenny and the STAR MAN

approaching the Mustang.

EXT. BEST WESTERN MOTEL - NIGHT

At the passenger door, Jenny sets her purse on the car roof

to take out her wallet.

Over her purse she notices the patrol car facing her from

the restaurant parking lot. There is certainly nothing unusual

about a patrol car in a restaurant parking lot. She shrugs

it off and gets in the Mustang.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

Jenny's behind hasn't even hit the seat before she sees the

patrol car parked on the frontage road off to her left. She

looks at the STAR MAN. He's busy pounding on the drink

machine. She turns around to check the lot behind her and

spots the patrol car there.

The STAR MAN stiffens when he sees the patrol car on the

frontage road.

EXT. BEST WESTERN MOTEL - NIGHT

The Mustang moves toward the frontage road.

INT. LAST PATROL CAR - NIGHT

EXT. BEST WESTERN MOTEL - NIGHT

All three patrol cars jam on their rack lights and, with

their SIRENS HOWLING, peel out after Jenny and the STAR MAN.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

At the SOUND, the STAR MAN snaps his attention to the rear

view mirror. It's ablaze with police lights. He tromps on

the gas.

INT. HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Shermin is patched into the Nebraska Highway Patrol and is

listening to the pursuit.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

The Mustang careens down the on-ramp and squeezes into the

traffic a hair's breath ahead of an 18-wheeler. This cuts

off the patrol cars momentarily, but the Mustang doesn't

have the speed to stay ahead of them. Using the other cars

on the road as shields, the STAR MAN dodges from lane to

lane trying to keep the police from coming alongside.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

The lead patrol car feints forward on the STAR MAN's side.

The STAR MAN sways over to cut it off and the middle patrol

car slips in next to Jenny. The STAR MAN grabs the gun from

under the seat.

INT. MIDDLE PATROL CAR - NIGHT

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

Jenny screams.

A shotgun blast from the middle patrol car rips through the

door and into Jenny. Part of the FRONT WINDOW is BLOWN OUT.

Bleeding badly, she slumps against the STAR MAN.

Her eyelids flutter open and she tries to speak, but can't.

The middle patrol car is lining up for another shot. The

STAR MAN slams the Mustang into it, sending it spinning onto

the shoulder and into a ditch.

The last patrol car speeds up to replace it. The lead patrol

car slips in next to the STAR MAN. They've got him in a

sandwich. The STAR MAN stands on his brakes.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

Caught by surprise, the patrol cars rocket ahead of him. The

Mustang cuts across the swatch of land that acts as a center

divider in the highway and races west in the eastbound lanes.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

The STAR MAN squints against the headlights of the on-coming

traffic as he calmly wedges his way straight through it.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

The lead patrol car tries to follow him but is clipped by a

Cadillac swerving to avoid the STAR MAN and bounced back

into the center divider. The last patrol car parallels the

Mustang in the westbound lanes.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

The STAR MAN realizes he's still boxed in. A car carrier

swerves by on his left. The lane behind is open. The STAR

MAN takes advantage of the opportunity.

EXT. INTERSTATE 80 - NIGHT

The Mustang vaults off the shoulder of the highway into an

open field and bullets away through the weeds.

The rush of oncoming traffic traps the three patrol cars in

the center divider.

INT. MUSTANG - NIGHT

Jenny moans as the car jostles over the rough ground. The

STAR MAN puts out a hand to cushion her ride. His headlights

pick up a gravel road splitting the field and he turns onto

it. In a quick look back, he sees the patrol car shooting

across the highway after him.

EXT. GRAVEL ROAD - NIGHT

We FOLLOW the Mustang as it winds upward through the grazing

lands sparsely dotted with clumps of trees. The plume of

dust kicked up by the fleeing car is turned silver by a full

moon. The WAIL OF the PATROL CARS is DISTANT BUT CLOSING.

EXT. PASTURE - NIGHT

The Mustang barrels around a curve and slides to a surprise

stop before a gate in a barbed wire fence that ends the road.

With the .45 in his hand, the STAR MAN jumps out of the car

and tries the gate. It is locked.

When he turns back to the car, he sees something that

frightens him more than the approaching patrol cars. A

helicopter has joined the chase. He looks for a place to

hide. A stand of cottonwood and elm fifty yards on the other

side of the gate offers the only protection.

The STAR MAN opens the passenger door. Jenny is soaked in

her own blood. He hooks the strap of her purse over his

shoulder, lifts her tenderly and, cradling her in his arms,

wiggles between a fence post and the gate and jogs into the

trees.

EXT. PASTURE - NIGHT

The helicopter sets down behind the Mustang. Shermin leads

Bell, Lyman and the technicians to the car.

Shermin pushes the seat forward. The STAR MAN's life-support

suit is stuffed in the space behind it. The patrol cars skid

around the curve.

Shermin takes a bullhorn from Lyman and goes around to the

front of the Mustang. The highway patrolmen get out of their

cars behind him.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

Jenny's limp weight is beginning to slow the STAR MAN. He

hears the bullhorn but doesn't stop.

EXT. PASTURE - NIGHT

Shermin lowers the bullhorn and speaks to the patrolmen.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

A deep shadow on the other side of an elm offers a likely

hiding place. He moves through the underbrush toward it.

Without warning, his feet begin to slip out from under him.

He struggles to regain his balance.

When he does he looks down to find himself staring at a RAGING

RIVER 150 feet below. The bank on the other side is just a

few feet above the water and in the moonlight he can see a

flat plain cut by a highway that stretches into the distance.

Slowly, he backs away from the edge of the cliff.

From under the elm he watches the helicopter sweep out over

the ravine. Its searchlight darts toward him bleaching the

treeline. The overhanging branches cloak him and Jenny and

the light passes without picking them up. The STAR MAN adjusts

his grip on Jenny and starts off in the opposite direction

from the helicopter to look for a way down the cliff.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

Shermin, his people and the patrolmen are combing the woods

with flashlights in a picketline search. The Third Driver

stops at the mouth of a clearing that runs between the

cottonwood and elm to the cliff. He takes a bite off a block

of chewing tobacco.

As he replaces it in his pocket, he sees a shadow flit across

the far end of the clearing. He swings his flashlight in

that direction. The beam catches a piece of Jenny and the

STAR MAN.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

Standing on the rim of the gorge, the STAR MAN sees the rays

of his pursuers' flashlights choking off any possible escape.

He eases Jenny to the ground behind a boulder. She whimpers

with the pain.

He stretches over the top of the boulder and scatters FOUR

SHOTS at the lights.

EXT. TREES - NIGHT

The patrolmen, the technicians and Shermin all hit the ground

and kill their lights.

THE STAR MAN AND JENNY

The STAR MAN peers around the boulder. At that instant the

searchlight from the helicopter happens to splash across the

men in the field. He sees that their guns are drawn and

pointed in his direction. The STAR MAN pulls back and takes

a marble from his pouch. It grows and glows gold as the STAR

MAN rolls it between his palms. When it reaches the size of

a baseball, he clutches it firmly in his right hand and

EMPTIES the .45 toward Shermin and the police. This time,

there is a BARRAGE OF ANSWERING FIRE.

With the BULLETS RICOCHETING around him, the STAR MAN lifts

Jenny to his shoulder. He massages the golden orb until it

becomes the size of a soccer ball, then takes two quick steps

to the edge of the cliff and leaps into the abyss.

EXT. ABYSS - NIGHT

The upward thrust of the ball supports their fall and under

its glow they begin a slow descent to the other side of the

river. Above them, the helicopter dips back and locks its

searchlight on the shelf of boulders they just left.

EXT. PLAIN - NIGHT

The STAR MAN sets down with the smoothness of a man stepping

off an escalator. He looks over his shoulder. The helicopter

is still concentrating its spotlight on the ridge. He speaks

to the ball in his language.

He lets the ball go and, with even more velocity than the

others, it zips into the sky.

EXT. TRUCK STOP - NIGHT

A WOMAN in a Frederick's of Hollywood negligee lets a TRUCK

DRIVER out of one of the Winnebagos parked to the side of

the main building.

Her rusty laugh follows him into the parking lot. He walks

between the trucks to a semi which has half of a pre-fab

mobile home tied onto its flat-bed. The polyethylene that

covers the open side of the house flaps in the WIND at the

lower corner next to the cab. The Driver opens his door. He

takes out a staple gun and refastens the dark green plastic

to the house frame.

INT. HALF HOUSE - NIGHT

In the middle of the empty bedroom, the STAR MAN tries to

cushion Jenny against the sudden JOLTS made by the semi as

it lumbers out of the parking lot.

EXT. HIGHWAY 76 - NIGHT

With the Driver taking it smoothly through the gears, the

semi picks up speed.

INT. HALF HOUSE - NIGHT

The STAR MAN moves Jenny into a rectangle of moonlight shaped

on the floor by a high, wide window and strips off her blouse.

The cold light marbles Jenny's skin and makes the blood from

her wounds appear black. With her blouse, the STAR MAN wipes

away the blood on the right side of her head and neck. He

finds a deep glass cut on her cheek and two entry points in

her neck. He concentrates on her cheek and we can SEE the

glow of his brain through his human skin.

A bit of the white light comes out of his forehead. It tumbles

across to Jenny's cheek and settles into the wound. The STAR

MAN watches intently as one end of the wound flares brightly

for an instant, then dies. The flesh left behind has been

closed without a scar.

A larger piece of light drops out of his forehead into what's

left of the gash. With that area suffused in a healing glow,

he shifts his focus to the pellet holes on her neck. He sends

two pieces of light plunging into the wounds. Immediately,

they spread into halos which we can SEE radiating from under

the skin.

Out of the night comes a LONG BLAST ON the AIR HORN and the

STAR MAN has to steady Jenny as the truck swerves around

something in the highway.

When it settles back into its ride, the STAR MAN wipes the

blood off Jenny's shoulder. The beams of the passing cars

through the plastic catch the fatigue on the STAR MAN's face

as he works over Jenny.

EXT. HIGHWAY 76 - NIGHT

With its pre-fab house, the semi rumbles through Julesburg,

Sterling and Ft. Morgan. By the time it gets to Denver, dawn

is beginning to color the tips of the Rocky Mountains.

INT. HALF HOUSE - DAWNBREAK

It's still dark in here. With a chunk of light in his left

hand, the STAR MAN dabs at the last of Jenny's wounds, leaving

behind a phosphorescent bandage. More of these patches glimmer

up and down her right side. He checks her over to see if

he's missed a wound. He hasn't.

He covers her with his windbreaker and, exhausted by his

efforts, sits back against the wall. He waits to see that

Jenny is sleeping comfortably, then presses the palms of his

hands together. The satel compass appears between them. The

green dot tells him he is still on course.

EXT. INTERSTATE - SUNRISE

Colorado Highway PATROLMEN are dropping orange fluorescent

cones across two of the three westbound lanes to form a

roadblock. The sound of a harmonica draws us to Shermin's

helicopter parked in a meadow beside the road.

EXT. HELICOPTER - SUNRISE

As the radio technician plays the harmonica, Lyman clangs

down the steps and bends to wake Shermin who is sacked out

under the fuselage.

Shermin sighs and rolls over on his back. He looks terrible.

EXT. MEADOW - SUNRISE

Shermin is holding a field radio to his ear.

Stung, Shermin takes a deep breath, controls himself and

returns the radio to his ear.

EXT. HIGHWAY 70 - DAY

The semi is in the slow lane. Its right rear turn signal

blinks steadily telling US that it is leaving the highway

and going north at the intersection ahead.

INT. HALF HOUSE - DAY

Jenny stirs awake under the windbreaker in the bedroom as a

sloppy DOWNSHIFT JOLTS the house. Her eyes flutter open and

she looks around the room trying to figure out where she is.

The truck leans into the turn. Jenny braces herself on one

arm and sits up.

Catching the windbreaker as it slips off her front, she

remembers that she was shot and examines her right side. She

runs her fingers over her cheek and neck, across her shoulder

and down her side, feeling for traces of the wounds she knows

she sustained. She has been completely healed and there are

no scars. She leans forward and looks down the hallway.

The WIND snapping the polyethylene is the only answer she

gets. She picks her blouse off the floor next to her purse,

but throws it aside and shrugs into the windbreaker when she

sees the blood and bullet holes.

Her sudden rise to a standing position makes her light-headed

and she has to lean against the doorway until the spinning

stops. With her hands outstretched, as guards against the

sway of the truck, Jenny shuffles down the hallway.

There is no one in the kitchen and she continues into the

living room. It is empty. Jenny opens the door to an enclosed

back porch. It is also empty. The STAR MAN is gone. She

returns to the living room and stands there not really knowing

what to do next. The countryside rushes by outside a floor-

to-ceiling picture window.

A WAIL FROM the semi's AIR HORN jars Jenny out of her reverie

and she goes to press her cheek against the window. She is

looking past her left hand at the road when she notices a

wide green ring on her finger above her wedding band. She

steps back from the window to examine it, then with some

trepidation, twists it off. As it clears the end of her

finger, the STAR MAN's VOICE SPEAKS OUT OF IT.

Jenny drops the ring as if she'd been stung. The STAR MAN's

voice stops as soon as she does and the ring bounces across

the floor until it hits the baseboard. It looks innocent

enough lying there, but Jenny has a great deal of trouble

making herself approach it.

When she finally picks it up, it does nothing. She turns it

in her hand and when the side of the ring hole that was facing

her when she took the ring off faces her again, the STAR

MAN's VOICE CONTINUES.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

The semi is picking up speed as it heads north.

EXT. SEMI'S CAB - DAY

The Driver checks his side view mirror to see if the lane

next to him is clear and is astonished to see a woman's arm

sticking out of the polyethylene waving a blouse at him.

EXT. HIGHWAY - DAY

Smoke billows from under the tires as the semi skids to a

stop.

EXT. SEMI - DAY

Jenny, her purse over her shoulder, is running toward the

cab as the Driver steps out with a wrench in his hand.

Jenny's thumb is already out for a ride as she sprints across

the highway.

EXT. HIGHWAY 70 - DAY

A passing car TAKES US TO the STAR MAN as he runs along the

shoulder to a maroon and white '57 Chevy that has pulled off

to pick him up.

EXT. '57 CHEVY - DAY

A swarthy, bald MAN with hairy arms leans across the seat.

INT. '57 CHEVY - DAY

The STAR MAN smiles.

The STAR MAN starts to point to the sky, then catches himself.

These are foreign words to the STAR MAN and he pastes on his

smile.

He sticks a cigarette in his mouth and flips one up for the

STAR MAN.

The STAR MAN takes it, quickly examines it, then positions

it in his mouth at the exact angle the Cook did. His eyebrows

raise when the Cook flicks his Bic and puffs an ash on the

end of his cigarette.

The butane flame is swung in his direction and he flinches

back before allowing the Cook to singe his Camel. He copies

the Cook's puffing and the end of his cigarette begins to

glow.

The Cook inhales deeply from his cigarette and blows smoke

at the windshield. The STAR MAN mimics the inhalation, then

chokes. His eyes bulge and his cheeks puff out as he tries

to be cool and not cough. The Cook takes no notice of his

struggles.

Smoke starts to dribble out of the Star Man's nose and mouth.

Puzzled, he re-examines his cigarette.

The Cook takes another drag. As if etiquette required it,

the STAR MAN hurries to copy him. This time there are no ill

effects.

The Cook flicks his ash out of the window. A moment later,

the STAR MAN mirrors his action.

EXT. ELMO'S - DAY

A truck stop set back as little as the law allows from the

BUZZ OF INTERSTATE 70.

We FIND Jenny at the set of fuel pumps nearest the highway

dogging an ATTENDANT while he services an 18-wheeler

Jenny folds back the plastic windows to the picture of her

husband.

We FOLLOW Jenny as she wends her way through the trucks

questioning other attendants. The RUMBLE OF TRAFFIC DROWNS

OUT their CONVERSATION, but the answer is always the same.

Finally, we FOLLOW the picture as Jenny hands it up to an

ATTENDANT cleaning the windshield on a Peterbilt cab.

He hands the snapshot back to Jenny. She nods a 'thank you'

and looks wistfully around the yard. There is nothing she

can do. Fitting the picture back into her wallet, she walks

away. After a few steps she turns back.

INT. ELMO'S DINER - DAY

It's bustling, loud and smoky. Jenny is standing just inside

the entrance. She licks her lips and tries to clear the frog

out of her throat.

Nobody pays any attention to her. Her voice trails off. She

swallows hard and tries again, this time booming out.

The activity in the diner comes to a screeching halt and in

the silence Jenny adds in a normal voice:

An OLDER MAN, with a face seamed by cigarettes and weather,

waves at her from the counter.

This gets some good-humored cheers and catcalls.

Smiling self-consciously, she takes a seat at the end of the

counter and orders coffee from the waitress. While she is

waiting for it to come, she happens to glance outside and

sees a Colorado Highway patrol car stopped in the yard.

The officer on the passenger side is talking to one of the

attendants. Jenny turns away from the window and finds that

she is able to watch the conversation in a strip of mirrors

that runs around the top of the pie case. The squad car leaves

and her coffee arrives.

INT. SIT-DOWN PHONE BOOTH - DINER HALLWAY - DAY

Jenny drops a dime in the slot and dials 'O.'

After TWO RINGS, the phone is picked up on the other end of

the line.

EXT. ROADBLOCK (INTERSTATE 70) - DAY

Standing back of the officers, Shermin watches them check to

cars passing through the squeeze point. Every car trunk is

opened. Vans and campers are looked into.

Lyman runs up and whispers in Shermin's ear. Shermin is

startled by what he hears. He leaves Lyman in charge and

hurries to the helicopter parked in the field beside the

roadblock.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

A TECHNICIAN gives Shermin a headset phone as he enters.

Shermin puts on the headset and the technician starts a tape

recorder.

INT. SIT-DOWN PHONE BOOTH

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

The Technician hands Shermin a note which reads: ELMO"S TRUCK

STOP/ABOUT 30 MILES EAST.

Shermin jabs his thumb upward, indicating that the helicopter

should lift off.

EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY

Shermin's helicopter lifts off.

INT. SIT-DOWN PHONE BOOTH

A sharp rap on the glass startles Jenny and she turns around

to see her ride.

Jenny holds up a finger that asks for a moment longer on the

phone.

Pause.

This hits Jenny like a kick in the stomach. She leans her

head back against the wall. Her ride is pacing outside the

booth.

Jenny smashes the receiver back in its cradle and throws

open the door.

She rushes down the hallway to the dining area where again

she stands just inside the entrance.

The place goes quiet except for a smattering of laughter.

INT. PORSCHE - DAY

The speedometer reads 90. The driver, a bespectacled, pimply-

faced SIXTEEN YEAR OLD, shifts into fifth gear. Jenny is

harnessed in the passenger seat. Chatter from a CB under the

dash COMPETES WITH ROCK N' ROLL ON THE TAPE DECK.

But he downshifts. The Porsche is going a mere 80 when they

pass the station wagon.

Howling at full throttle, three highway patrol cars rush

past them in the opposite direction. Jenny swivels around to

follow their progress until they are out of sight.

Jenny takes a second look at this guy. He flashes her a gap-

toothed grin.

EXT. OVERPASS - DAY

The Cook's '57 Chevy makes a left on the street intersecting

the off-ramp and stops at the curb. Behind it a large plastic

yellow chicken twirls on a pole above the restaurant it

advertises.

As an afterthought, the STAR MAN duplicates the Cook's wave,

then heads down the ramp. As he clears the frame, our VIEW

ZOOMS AND ZOOMS AND ZOOMS UNTIL we can SEE a piece of the

roadblock in the valley below him. During the MOVE-IN, we

BEGIN TO PICK UP CB CHATTER.

INT. PORSCHE - DAY

Jenny TURNS DOWN the ROCK 'N ROLL to listen to the CB.

Jenny doesn't answer immediately. She takes her time checking

out the people in a VW they are passing.

EXT. INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

In the style prescribed by Jenny, the STAR MAN raises his

thumb to a dilapidated Vega shimmying down the on-ramp. The

two blue-haired ladies inside are afraid to look at him as

they go by. He has the same luck with an attractive blonde

secretary that passes on the highway.

EXT. ELMO'S - DAY

A highway PATROLMAN is standing behind the open door of his

car speaking into the mike of his radio.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

All six TV screens display the road rushing under it.

EXT. SKY ABOVE INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

Shermin's S65 banks through a U-turn and chases west.

EXT. INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

A dun-colored Roadrunner gurgles down the ramp and stops in

front of the STAR MAN. Two grubby LONG HAIRS in worn western

clothes are inside with boxes of house-hold utensils and

duffle bags.

He looks at his buddy stretched on the jumble in the back.

The buddy nods.

The STAR MAN opens the door and gets in.

INT. PORSCHE - DAY

The CB CONTINUES TO CRACKLE with news of the roadblock.

Jenny's eyes restlessly search the overpass under the whirling

yellow chicken for any sign of the STAR MAN. She sees the

dun-colored Roadrunner waiting at the foot of the on-ramp

for a break in the traffic, but she is too far away to see

who's inside. As the Porsche gets closer, it overtakes an 18-

wheeler and Jenny's view of the Roadrunner is cut off

entirely. She passes without seeing the STAR MAN.

EXT. INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

The Porsche weaves through the traffic giving Jenny a chance

to look into the cars and trucks it shoots by.

INT. PORSCHE - DAY

Jenny is turned around looking back at a camper.

Jenny gives him a withering look.

EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

The Porsche slows to a stop on the shoulder.

She leans back and gives the startled Teenager a kiss on the

mouth, then gets out.

She closes the door. The Teenager takes a last look at her

before pulling back on the highway. Jenny waits for a car in

the slow lane to go by, then runs across to the line and

waits for cars in the fast lane to go by.

INT. ROADRUNNER - DAY

The STAR MAN spots Jenny standing on the line peering into

the on-coming cars for signs of him. He becomes agitated and

his mouth begins to move soundlessly. There is a break in

the traffic and Jenny dashes to the center divider. The STAR

MAN leans across his driver and yells as the Roadrunner

plunges by her.

EXT. INTERSTATE - DAY

Jenny spins around to see the Roadrunner skid to a stop on

the shoulder and the STAR MAN get out. A motorcycle bombs

by. He starts across the lanes of traffic toward Jenny. A

truck blasts past him in the slow lane. He is buffeted into

the fast lane. Jenny runs down the center divider to meet

him. A VW honks, its tires squeal on the pavement as it

swerves around him. He reaches the safety of the center

divider. Jenny throws her arms around him and lays her head

against his chest. He stands there uncomfortably not knowing

how to respond to this human emotion.

She grabs his wrist but he hangs back.

Holding the STAR MAN's hand, Jenny pulls him toward the road.

They bolt across the lanes of traffic to the other side of

the road where she flags down an old black pickup truck. She

says something to the driver and she and the STAR MAN climb

into the back. As the truck returns to the highway, the CLACK

OF AN APPROACHING HELICOPTER OVERPOWERS the TRAFFIC SOUNDS.

EXT. SKY - DAY

Shermin's helicopter slices around a pine-dotted peak

following the twists of Interstate 70 below. In the near

distance, we can SEE the roadblock.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

Unnoticed by Shermin or the Technicians, the black pickup

passes off the television screens carrying their quarry east.

The roadblock appears on the television screens.

EXT. ROADBLOCK - DAY

Lyman, wearing a headset plugged into a belt pack, is walking

down the line of cars.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

A swift kick from Shermin sends a stool clanging into a

bulkhead. The Technicians won't meet his eyes when he turns

back to them.

EXT. INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

Two highway patrol cars scatter the traffic in front of them

with their rack lights and SIRENS.

EXT. PICKUP - DAY

Jenny and the STAR MAN are sitting against the cab, a horse

blanket drawn up around their shoulders. They can see the

flashing lights coming from way down the road and watch

helplessly as the patrol cars eat up the distance between

them.

EXT. INTERSTATE 70 - DAY

The pickup makes the turn onto Highway 550.

EXT. PICKUP - DAY

For a moment, Jenny and the STAR MAN think they're safe.

That hope turns to despair when the two patrol cars loop

after them. They keep getting closer. The STAR MAN inches

the blanket up over his nose. Unexpectedly, the patrol cars

are thrown into a skid. When they stop, they are facing each

other ready to inspect the traffic coming off 70. They lower

the blanket from their faces. Jenny lays her head back against

the cab, exhausted.

EXT. HIGHWAY 550 - LATE AFTERNOON

A RUMBLE OF DISTANT THUNDER follows the lightning that flashes

from the dark clouds hanging on the horizon. Looking

incomplete without its trailer, the tractor/cab of a Mack

truck makes a turn on a farm road, revealing Jenny and the

STAR MAN standing on the gravel. The STAR MAN looks back to

where they came from. There is nothing coming so he sets out

in the other direction.

The STAR MAN ignores her and continues to walk.

Jenny turns toward an oncoming car and sticks out her thumb.

The STAR MAN falls into the same pose just back of her. The

car honks at them as it breezes by.

EXT. ROADSIDE - LATE AFTERNOON

A torrential rainstorm lashes the countryside. The STAR MAN

and Jenny splash along the edge of the asphalt. Their heads

are lowered against the weather. They are both drenched to

the skin.

The STAR MAN mutters in his language.

The STAR MAN looks at her. With the rain streaming off his

face, he looks at her. For the first time, the reality of

the situation hits him. He turns and, swearing in his own

language, flails at the rain. A distance from Jenny, he stops

and cries out in English.

Jenny can see him standing with his head bowed. She walks

over to him.

A flash of lightning shows us:

EXT. DESERTED RAILROAD SIDING - DUSK

Jenny and the STAR MAN are following the tracks to an

abandoned boxcar.

INT. BOXCAR - DUSK

The STAR MAN climbs in and pulls Jenny after him. Jenny is

shivering badly.

The STAR MAN scrapes it forward. He activates the satel

compass which lights the interior of the boxcar. While he is

doing this Jenny turns her back to him and takes off her

jacket. Her teeth chattering, she tries to wring the water

out of it.

Clutching the windbreaker to her breasts, Jenny looks at the

STAR MAN over her shoulder. It doesn't take her long to make

up her mind.

She waits while he struggles with the buttons. After two she

brushes away his hands and undoes the rest. She lets the

windbreaker drop and, slipping her arms around his waist,

presses her bare chest against his.

The STAR MAN does and Jenny jumps as the wet sleeves touch

her back.

It is difficult with Jenny around his waist, but he manages.

He drapes his arms over her. She snuggles into him. The RAIN

POUNDS ON THE ROOF. Gradually, Jenny responds to the STAR

MAN's warmth and relaxes. She lifts her head off his chest

and looks at him.

She brushes her lips against his. The STAR MAN's not sure

what's happening. But he's not offended. Her next kiss is

full and long. He accepts it with his eyes open and when she

eases back he leans in for more. Jenny responds. As if on

command, the satel compass comes from around behind the STAR

MAN to hover in back of Jenny. He takes it between his palms

and extinguishes it.

INT. BOXCAR - MORNING

Jenny awakens and looks around. The STAR MAN is not with

her. As she stands up she hears his VOICE OUTSIDE. He is

speaking to something in his language.

She goes to the door to find out what and sees him standing

beside a fenced-in pasture talking to the horses inside.

EXT. PASTURE - MORNING

Jenny joins the STAR MAN at the fence.

Jenny pets one of the horses on the nose.

An appaloosa nudges her way through the others to the fence.

Shocked, Jenny looks at him from around the appaloosa's nose.

The STAR MAN is combing a horse's mane with his fingers and

he doesn't see her expression.

Jenny comes over and puts her arms around the STAR MAN.

EXT. SKY - DAY

A formation of six black Bell Cobra helicopters rush at us

out of the blue. From above them we can see that they are

heading for a small desert town. 'Welcome to Lathrop Wells'

is spelled out on a hillside in white-washed stones.

EXT. AIRSTRIP - DAY

Grubby, unshaven and unwashed, Shermin, Bell, Lyman and the

rest of the crew watch the seven Cobras land in sequence.

Fox, immaculate in a freshly pressed black flight suit, climbs

out of the first one down and he and Shermin meet in the

middle of the runway.

EXT. LAS VEGAS - LATE AFTERNOON

A fire-engine-red Pontiac convertible with two COWBOYS (late

fifties) in the front and Jenny and the STAR MAN in the back

moves with the traffic along the main drag in the downtown

area. The STAR MAN's head swivels from side to side trying

to take in the neon that juts up around him. The convertible

stops at a light. The cowboy on the passenger side opens the

door and tips his hat to Jenny as she and the Star Man get

out of the back seat.

EXT. SIDEWALK (LAS VEGAS) - LATE AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN is afraid of the crush of people and wants to

stay close to Jenny, but is fascinated by the whir and click

and jingle of the one-armed bandits that seem to be

everywhere.

Jenny nods. A LADY in curlers and pedal pushers hits a twenty

dollar jackpot. Hanging onto Jenny's hand the STAR MAN turns

around and walks sideways to watch the quarters tumble out

into the lady's shopping bag.

INT. DRUG STORE - LATE AFTERNOON

The STAR MAN hangs back to examine a one-armed bandit inside

the front door while Jenny goes to the counter. An almost

imperceptible blue haze seems to seep from under the STAR

MAN's palms as he runs his hands up and down the sides of

the machine.

While the clerk searches for the map the STAR MAN comes up

to Jenny.

Jenny sighs and rolls her eyes and fishes two quarters out

of her purse and hands them to him.

He drops a quarter into the slot and pulls the handle. While

the pictures of fruit spin behind the view window, his hands

stroke the sides of the machine. An orange, a pear and a

cherry stop in the view window. At the counter Jenny explains

to the clerk that she is hitchhiking and wants the busiest

route into Death Valley without going through Lathrop Wells.

The STAR MAN looks long and hard at the machine before putting

in his last quarter. He pulls the handle. The blue haze flows

from his palms, three cherries lock into a line and the one-

armed bandit begins to spit quarters.

INT. CASINO - LATE AFTERNOON

Jenny is nervous about being here. She feels every face that

looks at them could be a cop. The STAR MAN is pulling her

through a Maginot Line of slot machines toward a 'Super

Jackpot' machine that advertises a $275,000 payoff.

The STAR MAN pops a gleaming silver dollar into the machine,

pulls the handle and places his hands against the metal.

Jenny, knowing it can't work, but hoping that it will, stands

back and gnaws on her thumb. Then she sees the blue haze

vibrating out of the STAR MAN's palms. Jenny stifles a scream.

She looks around to see if anybody else has noticed. They

haven't. The STAR MAN smiles at her. The force field does

it's work. A picket line of 7's fills the view window. Amid

the jangle of bells and flashing lights that accompany a

winner Jenny doesn't know whether she should jump for joy or

hide her face.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DUSK

A dot in the distance becomes a brand new Camaro. As it blasts

away from under us we see a paper license in its back window.

The cabin light is on inside the car.

INT. CAMARO - DUSK

In the passenger seat the STAR MAN is riffling through a

Columbia "History of the World." A Webster's Dictionary is

on the dash in front of him. Wedged between his legs and the

transmission well is a shopping bag full of money.

She notices the green ring on her left hand and takes it

off.

She slips it back on her finger above her wedding band. They

drive in silence. The STAR MAN sets the history book on the

dash.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - DUSK

With the STAR MAN SINGING IN HIS LANGUAGE, the Camaro moves

further into Death Valley. The SONG FADES and we:

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Camaro blows by a gas station, closed for the night.

INT. CAMARO - NIGHT

The STAR MAN shifts restlessly in his seat as he searches

the ghostly landscape for something familiar. He activates

the satel compass. The red and green dots are touching.

He presses the satel compass into his palms.

The STAR MAN shakes his head "no."

Jenny takes his hand in hers.

The STAR MAN smiles wanly at her.

It only takes the STAR MAN an instant to find his home.

He directs Jenny's attention to the constellation Auriga.

All we can HEAR are the TIRES HUMMING over the road. The

Camaro rounds the side of a low hill.

Jenny slams on the brakes. One of the Cobra helicopters, lit

from the inside, is parked next to a line of flares across

the road ahead.

EXT. CLOSED GAS STATION - NIGHT

The STAR MAN is looking through a window at the repair bay,

lit by a work light. Jenny is standing in a phone shell on

the front of the garage, the receiver to her ear.

The STAR MAN moves to the office door. He tries the knob. It

is locked.

Suddenly the STAR MAN slams his shoulder against the door.

It swings open.

Fox's voice comes out of the receiver in her hand.

INT. COBRA - NIGHT

EXT. CLOSED STATION - NIGHT

Tethered by the phone cord, Jenny tries to see what the STAR

MAN is doing inside the repair bay.

INT. REPAIR BAY - NIGHT

Using an air filter top as a basket, the STAR MAN scavenges

from the work bench and the car up on the lift, fuses, lengths

of wire, circuit boards from a radio, tubing, metal pipe and

a Black and Decker drill. While he is doing this we get

glimpses of Jenny pleading his case on the phone. Finally,

leaving the receiver dangling at the end of its cord, she

comes around to stand in the doorway.

INT. SHERMIN'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Shermin looks warily at the headset. When the STAR MAN doesn't

speak immediately, he takes the initiative.

INT. COBRA - NIGHT

Fox is listening to the conversation.

EXT. CLOSED GAS STATION - NIGHT

He hangs up.

INT. REPAIR BAY - NIGHT

The STAR MAN shaves the rubber off the electrical lines

leading into the fuse box and clips two wires of his own

onto the exposed copper. With Jenny watching we have a montage

of the STAR MAN working through the night: modifying the

insides of the Black and Decker drill, cutting out the mid-

section above the trigger, fitting electrical components

into that area, screwing a pipe into the bit-clamp, welding

it together with the spark that arcs between the electrical

wires.

INT. OFFICE (GAS STATION) - NIGHT

Jenny folds a sheaf of money into a sheet of yellow paper

and props it on the cash register. 'For Damages. Thank You'

is scribbled on the front. She runs out to catch the STAR

MAN who is on his way to the Camaro.

EXT. CAMARO - NIGHT

Carrying the modified Black and Decker drill the STAR MAN

opens the driver's door.

INT. CAMARO - NIGHT

Both hands on the wheel, Jenny is burning down the center

line. The STAR MAN bends two thin wires trailing out from

the grip of the drill. Jenny winces as he buries them into

the flesh on either side of his left wrist. The car skates

around the corner of a low hill. They can see that the Cobra

is still sitting next to the road.

The STAR MAN is lost in concentration.

Jenny kills her lights and glues the accelerator to the floor.

Three MEN scramble from the helicopter with M16s. A BURST OF

SLUGS RIPS THROUGH the Camaro's WINDSHIELD. The STAR MAN

leans out the passenger window and with an other-worldly

scream, fires. The helicopter is BLOWN TO SMITHEREENS. The

concussion throws the men to the ground.

EXT. BURNING HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The Camaro whizzes through the falling DEBRIS.

INT. CAMARO - NIGHT

The STAR MAN slumps in exhaustion and pain.

INT. SHERMIN'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT

It is filled with the radio voices of the Cobra crews setting

up to attack the Camaro.

EXT. DESERT HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The Camaro becomes airborne at the crest of a dip. Only its

new shocks save the landing.

INT. CAMARO - NIGHT

The STAR MAN draws the satel compass out between his palms.

The green dot now covers the right half of the red dot. He

presses his palms together and looks past Jenny at the rugged

foothills.

The first light of day is starting to color the sky behind

them. Jenny and the STAR MAN are startled by the DRUMMING

WHOMP OF A HELICOPTER. The STAR MAN looks out the window for

its source. He can't see anything. The SOUND FADES. In a

moment, it is REPEATED ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE CAR and AGAIN

IT FADES.

This is a truism that Jenny doesn't want to hear and she

flexes her fingers on the wheel.

Jenny and the STAR MAN steady themselves for the last leg of

their journey. Suddenly, their silence is exploded by a COBRA

dropping out of the sky in front of them. Its searchlight

bangs into their faces and, with its thirty-calibre MACHINE

GUNS BLAZING, it comes straight at them.

Jenny yanks the Camaro onto the shoulder. The SLUGS CHEW UP

the asphalt beside it. She fishtails back onto the road. A

SECOND COBRA surprises them from the STAR MAN's side. Its

MACHINE GUN KNOCKS OUT the BACK WINDOW before he can FIRE.

The STAR MAN crawls over his seat and arranges himself in

the hole that was the back window to meet the Cobras' next

FIRING RUN. It doesn't take them long. The first two have

been joined by a THIRD. They swoop down on the Camaro.

INT. LEAD HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The gunsights lock on the car below. The CO-PILOT squeezes

the trigger.

EXT. CAMARO - NIGHT

SHOTS THUMP INTO the trunk in front of the STAR MAN and he

FIRES. The lead HELICOPTER ERUPTS, raining pieces of hot

metal over the desert floor. The other helicopters are jarred

out of their run and their BULLETS harmlessly KICK UP SAND

on the shoulder. Before they can regroup, the STAR MAN BLOWS

THEM OUT OF THE SKY.

The STAR MAN has to hang on as Jenny dodges the car out of

the path of a Cobra skimming over the highway toward them.

As it goes over, he is able to get off a SHOT directly INTO

its UNDERBELLY. The BALL OF FLAME almost engulfs the Camaro.

INT. CAMARO - NIGHT

The STAR MAN slumps down into the back seat breathing hard.

Jenny looks over her shoulder at him and is shocked at the

strain that shows on his face.

She throws the car into a skid and leaves the blacktop for a

dirt road winding between two low hills.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

At the base of a sandstone cliff, the Camaro slides to a

stop. Jenny helps the STAR MAN out. She supports him as they

struggle toward the protection of the boulders. Fox's Cobra

roars over the hill.

INT. COBRA - NIGHT

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

The STAR MAN turns toward the Cobra. Weakly, he raises his

weapon and pulls the trigger. Nothing happens. The searchlight

from the Cobra finds them. Its machine guns begin to raise

puffs of gravel around them. Jenny grabs the STAR MAN's arm

and pulls him into the relative safety of the rocks. The

STAR MAN collapses against the cool stone.

Jenny looks out between the crags. Shermin's helicopter

arrives to join the Cobra. With their searchlights flicking

over the sagebrush, they move cautiously toward the cliff.

Jenny turns back to the STAR MAN. He is too weak to run

anymore.

INT. FOX'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT

INT. SHERMIN'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT

Six images (close-up to full shot) of Jenny and the STAR MAN

stepping out of their hiding place fill the television screens

in front of Shermin.

Lyman taps his keyboard. The screens all change to a long-

shot of Jenny and the STAR MAN with cross-hairs superimposed

on them.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

Shermin's helicopter moves toward Jenny and the STAR MAN

standing helpless in the circle thrown by the searchlight.

INT. SHERMIN'S HELICOPTER - NIGHT

The cross-hairs have locked on Jenny and the STAR MAN. Shermin

knows he can't do it. He picks up a headset.

Shermin flips a switch on the console that cuts Fox off.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

Shermin's helicopter passes over the heads of Jenny and the

STAR MAN and rises into the dawn sky.

INT. COBRA - NIGHT

He throws down his headset.

The gunsights lock in on Jenny and the STAR MAN. Fox's grip

tightens on the trigger. Suddenly the helicopter begins to

vibrate and drift off its target. Fox looks toward the sound

coming from his right and his eyes widen in fear as he sees

the STAR MAN's ship looming over him.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

The spacecraft passes over the top of the helicopter. The

whirling downdraft emanating from the spaceship's underbelly

yanks the Cobra away from Jenny and the STAR MAN and whips

it into a spin which gets faster and faster until it

disintegrates and falls to the desert floor.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

Jenny and the STAR MAN shield their faces against the DUST

STORM that billows under the WHINING DESCENT of the

spacecraft. It settles into a landing across the dirt road

resting on its three pods. With a crack, a cone of bright

white light blasts from the underside.

Jenny nods.

The STAR MAN puts his arms around her and holds her tight.

He kisses the tears out of her eyes, then full on the mouth.

The STAR MAN steps back and places a hand on Jenny's stomach.

He turns from her and walks to his ship. Jenny watches him

go, then remembers something.

She gets the Webster's Dictionary and the Columbia History

of the World from the Camaro and runs to the STAR MAN. He

takes them and kisses her again.

Jenny backs away as the STAR MAN walks under the ship into

the white light. He waves one last time to Jenny and is

swallowed into the ship by the light.

EXT. DESERT - NIGHT

Jenny turns away from the stinging sand as the space-craft

lifts off. When she looks again, it is high and moving over

the foothills. A banking turn brings it back. The ship dips

low over her, rocks itself in a gesture of farewell, then

shoots off into the stars. When she can no longer see it,

Jenny drops her wave with a sigh and starts back toward the

Camaro.

Over her walk, we SUPER:

JENNY HAYDN GAVE BIRTH TO AN EIGHT-POUND, SEVEN-OUNCE BABY

BOY ON MARCH 10TH.

