FADE IN:

A vast and sparkling starfield. A pinpoint of LIGHT

appears and starts moving toward the camera... a small

and distant cylindrical object tumbling end over end,

but we can't determine exactly what it is yet...

A vast and undulating sea of wheat. We become aware

that there are two HEADS sticking out of the stalks of

wheat: two men are standing and looking up at the

sky. As we move towards them,  we begin to hear their

conversation...and we can see that the two men are

SCOTTY and CHEKOV, dressed in civilian clothing.

As they stare up at the sky...

The cylinder tumbling through space is now closer, and

we can now see that it is a BOTTLE of some sort, and it

is tumbling directly toward the camera...

As before, Chekov and Scotty staring at the sky.

Suddenly we hear a double SONIC BOOM.

They shield their eyes against the sun and look up.

The bottle gets CLOSER...

A man in a high-tech body harness and parachute LANDS

in the wheat flat on his back. His body-suit is

charred, scorched, wisps of smoke still curling off of

it. There are small thrusters attached to his backpack

and boots. Scotty and Chekov move to him. The man

removes his helmet. Revealing that it is KIRK. He

smiles broadly, like a child who has just come off a

roller-coaster.

Kirk gets to his feet.

Kirk starts to pull off his suit, reacts to a sudden

pain in his back.

Kirk waves him away, and continues to remove his

harness.

The tumbling bottle rushes past, and we can now see

that it is a CHAMPAGNE BOTTLE - Dom Perignon, 2265.

Follow the bottle as it tumbles through space...

Kirk, Scotty and Chekov as before.

This strikes a nerve with Kirk -- we see a flash of

hesitation and irritation cross his face.

The champagne bottle SMASHES onto the bow of a

Federation starship(Excelsior class) sitting in its

dock in orbit around Earth.

FOLLOW the shards of glass from the bottle as they

spread over the ship...revealing the name on the hull:

U.S.S. ENTERPRISE NCC-1701-B.

A large picture window overlooking the starship in its

berth. The window is filled with people in Starfleet

uniforms, applauding the christening of the ship (but

we hear nothing).

The people are still applauding and we can see that

they are looking out over the ship in its berth.

The great ship sits in spacedock.

CLOSE ON A SET OF TURBOLIFT DOORS as they slide open to

reveal Kirk, Scotty and Chekov. A bright light shines

into their faces and they react. MOVE TO REVEAL -

that the bright light is coming from a futuristic

CAMERA with a small bank of lights attached to it. The

camera is a holographic recorder with two lenses and is

worn on an operator's head. There are four JOURNALISTS

clustered in front of the Turbolift -- one associated

with the camera, the others using PADDS to make

notations.

Also clustered around the door are the BRIDGE CREW of

the Enterprise-B. Everyone is APPLAUDING as Kirk and

the others blink under the bright lights and ENTER the

Bridge.

CAPTAIN JOHN HARRIMAN pushes through the crowd.

The journalists edge away, and the cameraman moves to

get a good angle.

Harriman is young, confident, eager -- this is his

first command and he takes it very seriously.

The original Enterprise officers all stop and give him

a look. Harriman looks a little embarrassed -- he

didn't mean to insult them. But Kirk gives him a

little smile, lets it roll off.

Chekov sees someone in the background, calls out to

her.

Chekov moves off.

The Journalist has unknowingly touched a nerve. Kirk's

eyes flash for a moment -- the longer he's on this

Bridge, the more he realizes he doesn't feel good about

it at all. He tries to shrug it off with a smile.

He tries to move away from the Journalist, who dogs

him.

At this point, Chekov approaches with a young, (mid-

twenties) attractive, Asian female Ensign named DEMORA.

Kirk is shocked. For a long moment, he stares at her

in amazement.

Chekov holds out his hand and indicates a very short

height.

Demora and Chekov move off and Kirk looks after them

for a long beat. The expression on his face changes

from shock to sadness... Something is clearly

bothering him.

Scotty moves over to Kirk, with a smile on his face.

But Kirk's mind is still on Demora. He watches her as

she moves to the Helmsman's position.

Kirk nods absently. Scotty realizes something...

Kirk gives him a look.

Harriman interrupts.

Revealing that three CHAIRS have been neatly arranged

to one side.

Scotty, Kirk and Chekov all take their seats. The

Journalists take positions on the opposite side of the

Bridge. Harriman moves to the command chair and the

rest of the Bridge crew go to their stations.

All eyes on Kirk -- he has little choice. He stands

uncomfortably. There is a moment of anticipation.

Everyone breaks into APPLAUSE. Kirk sits down in

acute embarrassment and  annoyance.

The great ship majestically LEAVES the dock, and heads

out into open space, passing DIRECTLY OVERHEAD.

A short time later. Harriman turns to his guests.

Suddenly the communications console starts to BEEP.

The COM OFFICER hits a few commands in response.

This grabs everyone's attention.

We hear the voice of a crewmember who sounds panicked

and urgent.

The voice is drowned out by STATIC. The SCIENCE

OFFICER checks something on his console. The

Journalist with the Holo-camera turns on his light and

pans it around to capture the action.

Harriman blinks a couple of times, surprised at this

unexpected turn of  events. Kirk watches him intently.

Harriman clears his throat, then turns to Demora.

The NAVIGATOR checks his console.

The Holo-camera light is shined on Harriman as he

shifts in his seat, hesitant to take the plunge. Kirk

is drumming his fingers impatiently on his leg.

Finally, Harriman takes a breath and straightens his

jacket a bit.

Kirk fidgets in his chair, itching to get in on the

action - his instincts taking over. Scotty shoots him

a side-long glance.

Kirk gives him a look.

The ship snaps into warp.

A few minutes later. Demora is watching her console.

Which now shows a HUGE RIBBON OF CRACKLING ENERGY

directly ahead of the Enterprise-B.

Everyone reacts to the bizarre sight.

The Viewscreen now shows TWO TRANSPORT SHIPS trapped

like insects in the violent torrent of energy. The

ships are being buffeted and thrown about by large

TENDRILS of CRACKLING ENERGY.

The ship suddenly SHAKES. The Navigator works his

console.

Harriman frowns at the screen, trying to figure out

what to do. Kirk can barely contain himself -- to him

the answer is obvious. He blurts out the answer --

Scotty quickly elbows him in the side -- this isn't

Kirk's ship. Kirk shuts up.  Harriman glances at Kirk.

When Kirk hears this order, he shakes his head slightly

and mouths the word "no" under his breath. He knows

that won't work.

Harriman frowns again, trying to come up with another

solution, but it isn't easy -- it's his first day in

command; his ship is under-manned and ill-prepared.

It's a nightmare come true. Kirk is itching to get in

On this, his fingers digging into the arms of his chair --

but he restrains himself.

A tense beat. Harriman glances over at the

journalists, then glances over at Kirk. Kirk gives him

a pained smile, trying to be encouraging even though he

knows this is not the right course of action.

Suddenly the right-hand ship on the screen is engulfed

by a fiery TENDRIL of energy and it EXPLODES. The

other ship continues to be thrown about and buffeted.

Everyone reacts with shock on the Bridge.

Harriman pales at the sight... seems shell-shocked by

the destruction of the ship. He's overwhelmed now, at

a genuine loss as to what to do next.

Harriman looks over at Kirk, who has remained quiet

during this entire sequence only through great effort

and out of deference to the young Captain. This is a

delicate moment -- Harriman doesn't want to look

incapable, but at the same time, he needs help.

Kirk is out of his chair like a cork out of a bottle.

He moves down to stand next to Harriman.

Harriman looks at him with surprise.

Kirk gives him a supportive look. Harriman buckles

down and grimly looks at the image on the screen.

Kirk glances at the Cameraman, who's still shining the

light on them  all.

The cameraman turns OFF the light.

The ship edges in yet closer to the crackling ribbon.

The tendrils from the ribbon lash out at the ship, just

missing it.

As before.

Chekov turns to the two journalists.

Chekov and the journalists EXIT to the turbolift.

The LIEUTENANT is having problems at the aft console.

Kirk turns to Scotty.

Scotty quickly moves to look at the Transporter

console.

Kirk moves to him.

Scotty begins to work.

The ship is destroyed by an energy tendril.

All eyes on Scotty.

Suddenly the ship is rocked violently. KLAXONS and

alarms start to wail and the lights FLICKER on and off.

BULKHEAD EXPLODES, sending metal fragments screaming

across the Bridge and KILLING the Navigator. Scotty

quickly takes over the dead man's console.

The ship is turning sideways into the WAKE of the

ribbon, but cannot break away. It is clearly being

pulled along, out of control. Tendrils leap up from the

ribbon, lashing against the ship.

The room is filled with the SURVIVORS of the Lakul.

They are all members of the EL-AURIAAN  race -- humanoid

and dressed in distinctive clothing. The survivors are

in various states of shock. Many sit on the floor,

staring into middle distance. some lie on tables,

unconscious. others are mumbling incoherently to

themselves. Chekov and the Journalists are moving from

person to person trying to get control of the

situation as the ship is ROCKED and FLUNG about.

Chekov has a tricorder.

He looks at the tricorder.

One Journalist moves past a man sitting on a bio-bed

with a dazed look on his face. He has a nasty-looking

wound on one side of his face. (We will later learn

that this man is named DOCTOR SORAN.)

The journalist is about to turn away when suddenly

Soran GRABS him roughly -- clearly a man of great

Strength -- and pulls him close. Soran's eyes are

suddenly wild, crazed.

Soran begins to attack the journalist, but before he

can do any real damage, Chekov injects Soran with a

hypospray and Soran falls unconscious.

Suddenly a WOMAN with her back toward us stumbles

nearby. Chekov quickly grabs her arm and catches her

before she falls.

The woman turns around and we see her face for the

first time -- it's GUINAN. She seems dazed and

confused. Chekov smiles at her warmly.

As he guides Guinan onto a table...

Energy ribbon on viewscreen.

Harriman is gripping the arms of his chair with one

hand. His face pales.

Kirk tries to buck up the young captain.

Kirk looks at Scotty expectantly for a moment.

Demora turns to him.

Kirk glances at Harriman.

Harriman nods, a little embarrassed. The SHAKING gets

worse.

Harriman heads for the turbolift, and there is a moment

as Kirk is sorely tempted to take command of the ship

and sit in the Captain's chair one more time. But he

pulls himself back before Harriman can exit.

Harriman nods in acknowledgement. Kirk heads for the

turbolift.

Kirk smiles as the turbolift doors slide shut...

Kirk running down the corridor, opens a door.

A small control room with a few consoles. Kirk rushes

in and rips off one of the large wall panels. He

quickly begins to re-route cabling and circuitry...

As before. The ship is SHAKING badly.

Scotty is working the consoles frantically.

INTERCUT:

Kirk working furiously.

Kirk finishes working and slams the wall panel closed.

As before.

Demora works the console.

A large BURST 0F ENERGY leaps out of the main deflector

dish and EXPLODES in front of the ship. There is an

immediate reaction within the Energy Ribbon, which

roils and fluctuates in response.

As before.

The ship now begins to turn away from the crackling

ribbon. But just as it's turning, one final TENDRIL of

energy suddenly leaps out and hits the ship.

The ship is ROCKED so hard that everyone is knocked off

their feet. Gradually, the SHAKING STOPS. Demora

scrambles back into position.

Everyone reacts with relief.

Everyone turns around and looks at Scotty.

Still no response. Scotty's face falls.

Harriman, very concerned, gets up and follows Scotty.

They EXIT to the Turbolift.

Scotty and Harriman head down the Corridor. They round

a bend... and then stop short. They react to

something ahead of them...

Revealing that the corridor ahead of them is GONE. A

jagged hole has been ripped in the ship and OPEN SPACE

can be seen beyond the twisted metal.

A FORCEFIELD flickers on and off, holding the vacuum of

space at bay.

Scotty and Harriman look at the awesome sight for a

moment. Chekov comes running up the Corridor behind

them. He stops and reacts.

A long silent beat as Scotty looks out into space.

A huge chunk has been ripped out of the Engineering

section, looking like an open wound. Scotty, Chekov,

and Harriman can be seen standing inside the small

Corridor, looking out into space...

A short time later. Scotty, Harriman and Chekov are

listening to Demora, who is working the Helm console.

A silent moment. Chekov looks to Scotty, hoping to

hear some sort of miracle. Scotty takes a moment

looks at the empty command chair. Then he shakes his

head. A long beat as everyone is forced to accept this

terrible truth.

Harriman finally breaks the stillness of the Bridge.

Harriman steps down to the Captain's chair and takes

command of his ship.

Scotty and Chekov exchange a final look. Off the

reactions of these two friends who've just lost someone

very dear to them both...

The crippled ship turns and heads away...

FADE TO BLACK.

SUPER: SEVENTY-EIGHT YEARS LATER...

as a FLAG is quickly hoisted to the top of a mast. The

flag reaches the top and is then caught by the wind --

the blue and white banner of the United Federation of

Planets waves in the breeze.

MOVE TO REVEAL THE LOCATION

A nineteenth-century three-masted sailing vessel (about

the size of a frigate) is hove-to and sitting in the

water gently rocking. Across the stern of the ship, we

can see the name ENTERPRISE picked out in gold letters.

Where PICARD and RIKER are standing before the

assembled crew of the ship. Everyone is dressed in

full-dress naval uniforms of the period, complete with

cocked hats, epaulettes, etc. The crew is standing at

attention... the wind whistles through the rigging...

the timbers creak...

Picard grimly looks over his crew... then finally  he

nods to Riker.

A drummer begins a long DRUM ROLL.

as WORF is brought on deck by TROI and GEORDI. Worf is

shackled by hand and leg irons. Troi and Geordi hold

him by either arm and shove him toward the Captain.

The drum roll STOPS. Picard moves to Worf and peers at

him closely.

Worf doesn't answer and Troi jabs him in the side.

Picard looks to Riker, who then pulls out a large,

rolled piece of parchment. He opens the scroll and

begins to read from it. In the b.g. Geordi removes

Worf's shackles.

Riker puts away the scroll

Everyone ROARS in APPROVAL. Picard smiles at Worf and

shakes his hand.

Picard continues to smile at him for a moment...then

Riker steps in.

Worf's face registers surprise as everyone GRABS HIM

and hauls him toward the side, where a long plank is

being pushed out over the water.

Picard gives Riker a questioning look.

Picard shrugs it off... it's not exactly his cup of

tea, but he'll go along with it.

Worf is hustled to the rail where BEVERLY is waiting

patiently by the plank, holding a long PIKE. Worf is

put on the plank and Crusher prods him with the pike

until Worf is nearly at the end.

Worf finally stops and turns around.

Everyone falls silent a moment. Worf looks over

the side at the water below.

Beverly prods him with the pike and Worf FALLS INTO THE

SEA  with a huge SPLASH . Everyone LAUGHS and CHEERS.

Reveal DATA, who is standing near the side rail,

looking a little confused at the reaction.

Data thinks a moment, then he LIFTS Beverly with one

hand and hold her over the rail.

Data lets go and Beverly PLUMMETS into the ocean. Data

looks around -- no one is laughing. They all look a

little surprised.

Data is puzzled by the reaction of the crowd... he's

more confused than ever.

are standing on the quarterdeck as a very wet Beverly

comes up on deck.

Troi takes the ship's wheel.

The crew springs into action... rushing to their places

aloft and on deck... grabbing ropes and lines...

starting to unfurl the sails... trimming the

yardarms... getting the ship ready to sail.

Picard is drinking in the scene with a look of great

satisfaction and  contentment.

But Picard won't let Riker rain on his parade -- he's

thoroughly enjoying himself.

Picard walks toward the bow.

A U-shaped ARCH with several computer panels visible

appears on the forecastle. It's a strange sight to see

a piece of the 24th century on the deck of this ship.

Picard goes to the arch and activates one of the

monitors and waits for the transmission to appear.

A text message APPEARS and he starts to read it. After

a moment, he reacts with shock and dismay to something

on the screen.

whose attention has been drawn to Picard, at the arch.

She reacts with concern at the expression on his face.

Troi moves toward the bow.

whose face is now ashen with shock. Clearly he has

just read something on the screen which is very

disturbing.

He stares into the middle distance for a moment. Troi

moves to him.

He turns OFF the screen.

The Holodeck DOORS APPEAR within the Arch. Picard is

clearly distracted as he EXITS to the Corridor. Troi

looks after him with concern.

Favoring Riker. He takes a couple of steps toward

Worf.

Worf looks at him blankly for a moment.

Suddenly a com voice interrupts.

Everyone on the ship reacts, and there is a general

rush to the bow of the ship...

The great ship at impulse. We FOLLOW it and then see

ahead of the ship, a small SOLAR OBSERVATORY with a

complex optical array. The observatory bears scorch

marks and other signs of recent battle. (In the b.g.

a YELLOW SUN can be seen.)

Picard in command. Riker, Troi, Worf and Data at their

stations They didn't have time to change, so they are

all still dressed in their costumes from the ceremony.

The ship is at Red Alert. The image of the burnt-out

observatory is on the VIEWSCREEN.

A grim beat. Picard gets up and starts heading for the

Ready Room - his attitude is dismissive, almost

irritated that this has interrupted some deeper concern

of his.

Troi and Riker exchange a surprised look.

Picard EXITS. An awkward beat. What's wrong with the

Captain? But they have their orders.

As Riker and  Worf head for the EXIT...

The station is a SMOKING RUIN -- consoles flickering,

lights dim, damage everywhere. Only a few minutes have

passed since they were attacked. Riker, Worf, Beverly

and two SECURITY GUARDS MATERIALIZE. They're all back

in uniform, holding phasers and palm beacons. Worf has

a tricorder and Beverly has a medical kit. The room is

cramped, there are fallen bulk-heads and blown-out

consoles. The debris makes it difficult to get a clear

view of the room.

Beverly follows her tricorder readings.

Riker gives him a look.

They pick their way carefully through the carnage of

the station...and come to the body of a Starfleet

Science Officer. He has taken a disruptor blast to the

back and there is a nasty-looking scorch mark on his

uniform. Beverly immediately takes some devices out of

her medical kit and begins to treat him.

The Security Guards climb a nearby ladder while Riker

and Worf head down a dimly-lit corridor. Riker stops

at two bodies in the hall, checks them over -- but

they're dead. There is a sudden banging from the far

corner of the room. Worf and Riker quickly move to a

collapsed bulkhead.

They both grab hold of a large metal plate, pull it

aside and begin to dig through the debris. Finally, a

HAND can be seen grasping about from within the pile of

rubble. Riker and Worf work faster. Worf grabs the

man's hand.

Worf holds the man's hand as Riker shoves away a final

console. We reveal the head and torso of Doctor Soran,

one of the survivors from the Lakul (and last seen

in Sickbay aboard the Enterprise-B). Soran has not aged

at all over the years but he does have a permanent

scar on his face from the earlier wound. He blinks a

few times, seems a little dazed.

Soran puts a hand to his head, still trying to get his

bearings.

Riker and Worf move to the ladder as Beverly begins to

scan Soran...

Riker and Worf move over to the two Security Guards who

are kneeling over a dead body which is obscured from

view. One guard turns over the body, revealing a

ROMULAN SOLDIER. Worf looks at him in disgust.

Riker and Worf exchange a look. OFF their reactions...

Data is sitting in a chair, petting SPOT THE CAT.

Geordi is standing next to him.

Data frowns. troubled by this recent experience. He

puts Spot down and moves to a bulkhead. He activates

a control panel and a small compartment slides OPEN,

revealing a small COMPUTER CHIP  which is suspended in

a glass and metal framework. Data looks at the chip

for a beat and Geordi moves to him in concern.

Geordi considers a moment, looks at the chip...

and reluctantly has to agree.

Data sits down and La Forge moves to stand behind him.

Geordi works on Data's head for a moment, and then

OPENS a panel on Data's head, revealing the blinking

circuitry within.

Riker is standing next to Picard, who has his back turned

and is staring out the window. Picard seems distracted

during the scene, his mind clearly elsewhere as Riker

finishes his report.

Picard nods absently.

Picard keeps his back turned, looking out the window.

Riker hesitates, awkward.

A beat, then Riker turns and EXITS. Off Picard's

unreadable face...

The room is bustling with patrons and activity. Data

ENTERS with an odd look on his face...his body

language subtly altered. He is looking at the world

through new eyes. Geordi is following him closely,

watching his every move. They move to the bar. Guinan

comes over -- she has not aged at all since the

Enterprise-B. She sets down an exotic-looking container

full of dark liquid.

She pours two glasses of the liquid. Data takes one

and sniffs it, then takes a drink. Geordi watches him

closely. Data frowns.

Data finishes the drink... concentrates, tries to make

sense of the rush of feelings. His expression is one

of disgust.

Data looks at Geordi with a big smile on his face.

Beat.

In the b.g., we see Picard ENTER Ten Forward.

as he walks through Ten Forward and heads toward a

table by the windows. Soran is sitting at the table,

staring out at the stars, lost in thought. His

observatory uniform is distinctive, and sets him apart

from everyone else in the room. Picard walks up to the

table.

The men shake hands and Picard sits down. Soran is an

imposing physical presence, but at the moment he seems

very much the eccentric scientists consumed with his

work. Picard waves away a waiter.

Picard's reaction is a little impatient -- this doesn't

sound that imperative to him.

Picard moves to stand, but Soran reaches out and gently

but firmly grabs him by the arm. The unexpected

physical contact and the change of intensity in Soran's

face stops Picard in his tracks.

For some reason, Soran's words have struck a deep chord

within Picard.

He looks away from Soran's compelling gaze and thinks

for a long moment. When he finally speaks, his voice

is barely above a whisper.

Picard walks away without a word before Soran can

thank him. Soran looks after him with relief, then

pulls out an ANTIQUE POCKET WATCH and opens it. He

looks at the watch for a long moment. then snaps it

closed and head for the opposite exit from the one

Picard took. FOLLOW Soran across Ten Forward...until

he suddenly stops in shock at something he sees...

of Guinan, who is now back at the bar.

A dark look crosses his face -- he is disturbed by the

sight of Guinan. He quickly turns and EXITS.

she begins to sense something, as though someone is

watching her. She turns, looks in the direction where

Soran was just standing, but there's no one there now.

She shakes off the feeling and goes back to work.

A short time later. A Romulan tricorder is connected

to some diagnostic equipment near a console. Worf is

talking to Riker.

Worf activates a MONITOR which shows a complex diagram

of sensor information.

Riker considers.

The station is still a wreck. Geordi and Data are

scanning the room with tricorders.

Geordi continues to scan... then suddenly Data lets out

a quiet GIGGLE. Geordi stops and turns to look at him.

Data giggles louder.

Data laughs again.

Geordi looks blankly at him for a moment.

Geordi indicates a corridor. They EXIT in that

direction...

A short corridor connecting the Ops Center with other

compartments. Geordi suddenly stops in front of what

appears to be a standard bulkhead.

Geordi runs his finger in a vertical line along what

appears to be a smooth bulkhead.

Geordi puts his tricorder away and begins looking for

a way to open the door.

Data steps forward and OPENS a small panel on wrist

and makes a quick adjustment to the circuitry within.

Data completes his adjustment and then moves his wrist

over the door panel.

There is a HUMMING sound followed by a loud CLICK. The

door slides open.

Geordi reacts to the bad pun with a grimace. They EXIT

to.

A small room with several probes stacked in holding

racks. Geordi and Data scan.

They put their tricorders away and begin looking around

the room. Data continues to snicker and giggle as he

tries not to laugh at jokes his mind conjures up.

Geordi begins inspecting the probes... finally stops

at one probe which has SEVERAL ODD DEVICES attached to

the side.

Data uses the tricorder as if it were a puppet as he

opens and closes it like a mouth.

Data giggles and Geordi reacts with the irritation of

someone listening to a very bad comedian.

Data helps Geordi as they try to open a panel on the

casing of the probe. They open the panel and Geordi

looks inside.he reacts to something.

Data suddenly start LAUGHING. Geordi turns in

irritation.

Data's laughter escalates into hysteria... then Data

begins to JERK and SHAKE and goes into a bizarre

"emotional seizure." A rush of EMOTIONS race across

his face. anger, passion, shock... a kaleidoscopic

blur of reactions contort his features. Then it stops

and he FALLS to the ground.

Geordi rushes to him. Data has a look of surprise on

his face as he blinks a few times. He sits up.

There's no response. Geordi frowns for a beat, then we

hear Soran's voice.

standing in the room. Geordi didn't hear him come in.

Over the above dialogue, Soran glances over at the

solar probe Geordi was inspecting. He notes the opened

panel and a disturbed look crosses his face.

Soran looks back at Geordi.

Soran moves toward them. and then without warning, he

punches Geordi in the face, KNOCKING the VISOR across

the room. He whirls around and points a phaser at

Data, who suddenly looks fearful.

Picard is standing at the replicator.

The cup of tea APPEARS in the replicator and at the

same moment, the door CHIMES.

Troi ENTERS. Picard would rather not be bothered right

now, but he is polite as always.

But Troi won't be brushed away so easily.

Picard is really not in the mood for this. His tone

hardens.

Troi takes a seat and patiently waits. Picard gets

up.moves around the room for a moment...and stops.

He speaks in a flat, unemotional tone of voice.

Troi reacts, genuinely surprised.

He trails off.

Troi eyes an open photo album on the table. She reaches

over and flips through the pages for a moment. There

are many photos inside... from many periods in time

including one of Picard's brother standing next to his

young son. This is the Picard family album.

Picard hesitates -- this is difficult for him.

Picard moves to the window, stares outside. A shadow

crosses his face. He's getting to the heart of the

matter.

Picard moves back to the photo album, open it to the

last page, an then flips through the remaining pages --

they are blank.

He looks at her.

A quiet beat as Troi considers him.

Suddenly, a BLINDING BURST OF LIGHT  from outside the

windows washes into the room. Troi and Picard rush to

the window and shield their eyes against the glare.

Picard and Troi ENTER from a turbolift. Riker and Worf

at their stations. The star is on the Viewscreen,

getting DARKER by the second... more flaming debris

is being ejected into space.

Something beeps on Worf's console.

Picard looks at Riker, who then quickly heads for the

turbolift.

Riker and Worf EXIT.

The star is almost entirely dark. Radiating out from the

star is a huge shock wave- a rapidly growing sphere of

energy.

Soran is standing at a console watching a graphic

depiction of the star's collapse on a monitor when the

door suddenly opens. Soran whirls around and FIRES his

phaser at Riker and Worf. They dive for cover just

outside the room. (NOTE: The probe Geordi examined

earlier is now gone.)

Worf dodges another phaser blast and sees Geordi lying

unconscious on the deck. Data is nowhere to be seen.

Soran's only answer is another phaser blast.

As before. ENSIGN HAYES is at Tactical. An ALARM

suddenly BEEPS on the Tactical console.

Shocked reactions.

as an old-style Klingon Bird of Prey decloaks near the

observatory.

Soran is continuing to SHOOT at Riker and Worf. Riker

suddenly notices something off-camera.

Data is huddled in a corner of the room, cowering in

fear.

The firefight continues.

Data looks up at him with a terrified look on his face.

Suddenly Soran's communicator BEEPS. Soran reaches

down and grabs the unconscious Geordi by the collar and

the two of them DEMATERIALIZE. (Soran has the VISOR in

his hand.) Riker, Data and Worf react.

The Bird of Prey cloaks and vanishes.

As before.

The Enterprise warps away just as the shock wave

reaches the observatory and vaporizes it in a fiery

EXPLOSION.

On a monitor where we can see a graphic depiction of

the darkening star and shock wave. MOVE TO REVEAL

We are the inside an old Klingon ship - it's beaten up and

patched in several places, obviously not a first-line

model. Watching the Viewscreen are LURSA and B'ETOR,

two powerful-looking Klingon women... They are sisters.

aggressive... seductive... and very dangerous. Several N.D.

male Klingons man the various stations.

The sisters stare at the image of the destroyed sun in

awe.

Soran now ENTERS the Bridge. His expression is dark

and angry. He is clearly not a prisoner here and he

strides up to the sisters.

But without warning, Soran HITS B'Etor squarely in the

jaw, knocking her back over a console. Several

Klingons leap to their feet, drawing their weapons...

but B'Etor holds up a hand as she gets to one knee.

She dabs a trickle of blood at the corner of her

mouth... her expression is angry and threatening.

B'Etor has now gotten to her feet in the b.g.

B'Etor grabs Soran and holds a wicked-looking knife to

his throat.

Soran is unfazed by this threat.

Lursa reaches out and calmly pushes her sister's knife

away.

A KLINGON GUARD ENTERS dragging the unconscious Geordi.

Soran moves toward Geordi, a grim look on his face.

Soran EXITS.

Riker and Worf are on the move down the corridor.

They EXIT to...

Worf and Riker ENTER. Beverly is closing a panel on

the back of Data's head. He is sitting on a bio-bed,

scanning himself with a tricorder.

Data's expression is still one of concern. Beverly

pulls Riker aside.

Beverly activates the wall monitor and a picture of

Doctor Soran along with some biographical information

appears.

She hits a control and suddenly Guinan's face appears

on the screen. Riker reacts to the image...

Close on Guinan as she looks up, surprised.

MOVE TO REVEAL Guinan's Quarters, which are unlike any

of the others on the Enterprise. None of the standard

furniture, consoles or decoration are present. The

floor is made of tile, not carpet... the walls are

draped in exotic fabric. The lighting is moody and

subdued.

Picard is standing before Guinan, who is sitting cross-

legged on the floor. They talk to each other with an

easy familiarity... two old friends who know each

other well.

Guinan stands and begins to move about the room...

she's clearly troubled by the memories. She hesitates,

looks off into the middle-distance for a few moments.

Picard moves to her.

Guinan moves to a table and begins to shift around some

exotic-looking alien artifacts... distracting

herself... this is difficult for her to discuss.

She makes the decision to plunge ahead.

She turns to him and her face is filled with some kind

of awe at the memory.

A long beat as Picard absorbs her words.

Guinan shows a rare burst of anger.

Guinan moves to a window and looks out at the stars.

He heads for the door.

Picard stops, looks at her.

Picard weighs her words... sees the warning in her

eyes... and carefully backs away and EXITS.

A dimly-lit room somewhere in the bowels of the Klingon

ship. Like every other room on this decrepit ship, the

room looks well-worn and ill-maintained. Soran is

seated behind a table, holding the VISOR. A PADD and

Soran's pocket watch sit on the table. Geordi is

sitting in a chair across from him -- his shirt has

been removed. He looks very tense.

Soran takes a moment.

Geordi thinks.

Soran picks up the PADD from the desk and activates it.

Suddenly something small, with sharp edges, can be

seen MOVING just underneath Geordi's skin near his

chest. Geordi moves his hand to the spot, but then the

protrusion is suddenly gone.

On the PADD in Soran's hand, we can now see an interior

graphic of Geordi's body sitting in the chair. The

graphic is interactive, moving as Geordi moves.

A BLINKING DOT represents the movement of the probe

inside his body. Right now, the dot is in the middle

of his chest.

On the PADD, we now see the dot has moved to a position

next to Geordi's heart. Soran looks up at Geordi.

Soran taps a control on the PADD. Suddenly Geordi

grabs his chest in pain. Soran watches Geordi for a

few seconds, then taps the PADD again. Geordi gasps

and starts to breathe.

Soran's features soften as he smiles slightly. For a

moment, he looks genuinely compassionate -- and it's

a disturbing contrast to his usual dark intensity.

Soran taps a control on the PADD. Geordi gasps and

strains against an unimaginable pain.

Soran picks up his pocket watch and opens the cover...

sits back in his chair, watching the seconds tick

away...

A room filled with exotic-looking devices, sensors and

computers which handle the enormous task of tracking

the ship's position in space.

The monitors around the room display various diagrams

of the ENERGY RIBBON (as seen in the beginning of the

film).

Data is sitting at a computer console which has a great

deal of complex information on the screen. Picard is

standing next to him. Throughout the following, Data

seems distracted and preoccupied.

Data doesn't answer right away.

Picard moves about the room... he's frustrated...

tired... but determined to find out what's going on.

Data works the computer and then the computer begins to

work. Data sighs -- his expression becomes downcast

and gloomy. He sits down and puts his head in his

hands. Picard finally has to say something.

Picard regards him sympathetically.

The computer finishes its calculations and the console

BEEPS. Data works the console. Information appears on

screen.

Picard is starting to get an idea... he's onto

something here. He moves to a large table in the

center of the room.

Data moves to the table to work. after a few beats,

an elaborate map of the galaxy springs up on the

ceiling of the room. A BLINKING DOT shows the position

of the ribbon.

Data hesitates... still obsessed with his own emotional

turmoil. Picard finally has to lay down the law.

This snaps Data back... he considers this for a long

moment, then looks  determined.

Picard smiles at him.

Data works the console. A RED LINE moves to form an

arc through the star field. Picard examines the display

for a moment and nods... he's excited, on to

something...

Data works and the display now ZOOMS into a single

SECTOR. The RED LINE cuts through the sector.

Data works. A STAR is highlighted near the red line.

Data works and holographic display CHANGES again.

The red line representing the course of the ribbon now

shifts to the right -- AWAY from the Amargosa star's

position. Picard is beginning to realize what's going on.

Data thinks for a moment.

Picard thinks about this... then has a flash of

insight.

The display ZOOMS IN on a star very close to the

ribbon's path. We now see a SOLAR SYSTEM with a single

star and FOUR PLANETS. The RED LINE moves directly

through the system -- it passes very close to the third

planet. Picard eyes that planet and points to it.

Picard's mind is going a mile a minute. He suddenly

has a horrible realization.

Data works. On the display, the Veridian star suddenly

DARKENS and GOES OUT. The RED LINE shifts slightly

until it makes an exact INTERSECTION WITH THE THIRD

PLANET. They both react to this sight. they're both

aware of just how serious this is.

Picard eyes the graphic with a sense of dread.

A grim beat.

Picard heads for the exit, a sense of urgency and

determination in his every move.

Picard and Data EXIT Stellar Cartography.

as it goes into warp.

Lursa and B'Etor in command as Soran ENTERS.

Soran hands B'Etor a small computer CHIP.

The Helm works. The view screen now shows the

Enterprise at impulse entering the system. Reactions.

The Helm works. We hear PICARD'S COM VOICE.

Soran's expression darkens.

Soran checks his watch.

Soran thinks for a moment... then  he gets an idea. He

pulls Geordi's VISOR out of a pocket. He eyes it with

intent.

Off Lursa and B'Etor's curiosity...

nearing Veridian Three. The planet's STAR is visible.

Picard is pacing. Riker, Data, Worf, Troi, N.D.s at

their stations. The ship is at Red Alert. Data's mood

has improved. He's making an effort to keep a positive

outlook... to stay upbeat.

Data smiles, delighted at the request.

As Data works, he breaks into a merry little song.

Worf turns to Picard.

They exchange a grim look.

An alarm goes off on Worf's console.

On the view screen, the Bird of Prey decloaks.

On the view screen, Lursa and B'Etor APPEAR.

Lursa and B'Etor exchange a glance.

The two sisters appear to consider this for a moment.

The transmission ENDS. Picard heads for the Turbolift.

As Picard EXITS...

Picard stands on the platform. Crusher and NURSE OGAWA

stand nearby. The TRANSPORTER CHIEF works his console.

Picard DEMATERIALIZES -- and at the same instant,

Geordi MATERIALIZES. Beverly and Ogawa rush to his

aide, pull out their tricorders and scan him. Geordi

is conscious, and he's wearing his VISOR.

A large plateau ringed with trees and underbrush. A

single ROCK FACE juts upward, forming a backdrop for the

plateau. Against the rock face, a large SCAFFOLDING has

been erected -- planks and beams forming a complex

structure -- ladders connect each level. It leads to

a narrow ledge a dozen meters above.

Picard MATERIALIZES on the plateau. (NOTE: Picard's

combadge is gone and he is unarmed.) A moment as he

looks around. strange animals and birds can be heard.

He turns and sees Soran standing nearby, calmly looking

at his pocket watch. Soran puts the watch away.

Soran turns his back on Picard and walks away.

Picard takes a step to follow him and then is JOLTED

backward by a large FORCEFIELD which briefly flashes

into view. The field completely surrounds the plateau,

enclosing Soran and the scaffolding, with Picard on the

outside. OFF Picard's surprise...

The Klingon Navigator is working his console.

Lursa and B'Etor move to one of the consoles with a

large monitor. The screen shows STATIC for a few

seconds, then clears to a distorted view of a CEILING

on the ENTERPRISE -- this is GEORDI'S POV. (NOTE: The

POV is slightly fritzed, but free of the usual VISOR

effects.)

Suddenly, Crusher's face looms large in the picture, as

if she's leaning over Geordi. She smiles and starts

talking. We can see her lips move, but we can't hear

what she's saying.

Lursa and B'Etor pull back in surprise at the image.

Beverly is leaning over La Forge, who is on a bio-bed.

mid-conversation.

Picard is walking the perimeter of the invisible

forcefield, looking for some way in. Soran is

concentrating on his PADD as Picard tries to engage him

on some level.

Soran gets up and works his control PADD. Suddenly a

probe LAUNCHER DECLOAKS  in the middle of the plateau.

The launcher is a cylindrical apparatus the size of a

small car.

Soran goes to the launcher, steps onto it and begins

working the control panel.

This has touched a nerve in Soran... something dark

and ugly flickers across his face.

Soran looks up at Picard... and for a moment we can see

that Picard has really gotten to him here... then he

finally smiles a smile that doesn't quite reach his

eyes.

Geordi is taking a bath. We can see his legs and feet

sticking out of the water in front of him... he stands

up.

MOVE TO REVEAL:

Lursa and B'Etor are still watching La Forge's POV on the

monitor. They are bored and irritable.

The POV shows Geordi's view as he stops in front of

a mirror... wipes away the steam and reveals his own

reflection. Lursa and B'Etor gnash their teeth in

frustration...

Soran is working intently on the Launcher's Control

Panel. Picard is still walking the perimeter of the

Forcefield. he's also still trying to engage Soran,

find some way to get to him.

Soran continues to work... keeps his voice calm and

conversational.

Soran now turns and fixes Picard with a penetrating

look.

Picard freezes at this. Soran steps off the launcher

with a confident look... he moves closer to where

Picard is standing.

This strikes home with Picard's own recent concerns...

he struggles for a moment.

Soran glances up at the sky expectantly, then turns

away from Picard and goes back to work on the Launcher.

OFF Picard's disturbed expression...

B'Etor watching the monitor, impatient. The POV shows

Geordi's view of walking down a CORRIDOR. Lursa walks

over to join her.

Picard continues to walk around the perimeter of the

forcefield. He sees something on the ground -- a

GNARLED ROOT from a large nearby tree. The root is

poking out of the ground, leaving a small arch through

which daylight can be seen. Picard's mind begins

racing... he glances at Soran and then picks up a

pebble and, while keeping his eye on the root, he tosses

the pebble into the air, where it HITS the forcefield.

-- The forcefield FLASHES on briefly and Picard can see

-- Soran turns at the sound of the crackling field.

Soran returns to working on the Launcher. but Picard

looks back down at the root... then walks away,

planning his next move.

Lursa and B'Etor are watching the monitor of Geordi's

POV with irritated expressions. On the monitor, Geordi

rounds a corner and enters Engineering.

The sisters lean forward eagerly.

Geordi is talking to an engineer named FARRELL, N.D.s

working in b.g. Mid-conversation.

They both move to consoles...

As before. On the screen, we can now see several of the

monitors in Engineering. On the left side of the

screen is the large cutaway view of the Enterprise.

Lursa suddenly reacts to something on the screen.

B'Etor works. The image on their monitor RUNS BACKWARD

for a moment and then FREEZES. On the screen, we can

see several of the monitors in Engineering. On the

left side of the screen is the large cutaway view of

the Enterprise. Lursa touches the diagram.

B'Etor works. The picture ZOOMS IN on the cut-a-way

graphic and SHARPENS in FOCUS. There are several

blocks of numbers and text visible. Lursa studies the

image.

The sisters exchange an excited glance, then move

toward the command area.

The two sisters smile eagerly.

WHAM! The ship is ROCKED HARD. Alarms go off on the

Bridge.

The Klingon ship is FIRING FOUR T0RPEDOES at the

Enterprise. The torpedoes PASS DIRECTLY THROUGH the

ship's SHIELDS and hit directly on the hull.

WHAM! Another HIT.

The Enterprise FIRES at the Bird of Prey. but the

phaser shots are stopped by the Klingon SHIELDS, which

flash on when they're hit.

The Bird of Prey returns FIRE. The shot carves a

jagged tear in the Enterprise's hull.

As before. The ship is jolted again... the Con console

EXPLODES and the Con officer is killed.

Troi rushes to the Con and works...

The Enterprise turns and leaves orbit, but the Klingon

ship is right on top of them... FIRING at the

defenseless starship.

A jolt.

Another JOLT. The Bridge lights FLICKER. The

situation is desperate.

The ship is JOLTED. They all hold on.

There is a sudden EXPLOSION on the upper level. Geordi

and the other Engineers rush to deal with it.

Riker suddenly gets an inspiration as the Bridge is

ROCKED.

Data goes to work.

Worf works.

The Enterprise ROLLS and TURNS back toward the planet,

tries to get away from the Klingon ship. But the Bird

of Prey follows its every move.

The ship is hit again. An aft CONSOLE EXPLODES.

Lursa and B'Etor in command... savoring their imminent

victory.

The Navigator suddenly reacts to something on his

console.

The ship begins shimmering- engaging its cloak.

Worf works.

Lursa and B'Etor react to the sight on the Viewscreen

as the spread of torpedoes heads directly for them.

The two sisters exchange a look. The ship is suddenly

ROCKED HARD and we can see the beginning of an

EXPLOSION...

The ship IMPLODES, completely destroyed. pieces of

the shattered vessel float past the camera.

Picard has made his way back to the gnarled root. He

stands a few feet away... a couple of pebbles in his

hand.

He glances at Soran, who's absorbed with his work on

the launcher.

Picard then surreptitiously TOSSES a pebble toward the

root. It misses and BOUNCES off the FORCEFIELD. Soran

looks over his shoulder at Picard, who sits down on a

rock. Soran returns to his work.

Picard tosses a second pebble -- this one also hits the

forcefield. Soran turns with a vaguely irritated look.

Picard doesn't respond. Soran goes back to work.

Picard waits a moment, then takes aim and TOSSES

another pebble toward the root. This time, the pebble

bounces underneath the arch and rolls onto the plateau -

inside the forcefield. Picard keeps his expression

neutral, but he's found a way in.

The room is a disaster. Wreckage from destroyed

consoles and debris are scattered throughout the room.

Geordi is desperately working with Engineers near the

warp core, which is running faster and faster.

The warp core starts to spew white-hot GAS.

The emergency isolation door comes DOWN and people

start rushing out of Engineering. Geordi heads for the

Corridor.

Riker is faced with a no-win situation. He makes the

decision.

Troi and Data work and Riker moves to the Captain's

chair. He presses a button on the armchair console.

a unique and urgent ALARM is heard throughout the ship.

SERIES OF SHOTS as the ALARM SOUNDS:

rushing through the corridors.

directing people toward the correct doorways.

grabbing their children and heading down the Corridor.

They grab a wounded crewmember and pull him down the

Corridor.

scrambling through Jefferies Tubes and closing hatches

behind them.

Soran is finishing his work on the launcher. On one of

the monitors on the control panel, we can now see alien

graphics and numbers ticking by -- obviously a

countdown in progress. Soran finishes and turns off

the control panel. He steps down and looks over at

Picard, who is standing near the forcefield.

Soran turns and begins to climb up the scaffolding

toward the top of the rock face. Picard watches him

intently for a few moments... then quickly springs

into action...

People scramble through the Tube and out into a

Corridor. Geordi is the last man through the hatch.

He turns and manually SHUTS the hatch behind him.

Data works.

LOOKING FORWARD from behind the REAR of the massive

ship. A CRACK appears as the separation process

begins.

Everyone is watching the VIEWSCREEN with anticipation.

Moves away from the battle section... before it can

completely escape, the battle section EXPLODES -- the

force of the explosion hits the saucer section,

knocking it toward the planet.

Everyone is knocked to their knees.

They all look at the Viewscreen... The planet is

rushing toward them.

as he reacts to the terrifying image.

Picard has dropped to the ground and is on his back -

he's trying to wriggle underneath the root. It's not

easy. he knows there's not much room between the

ground and the invisible field. he just gets his head

and shoulders underneath when he accidentally TOUCHES the

field and it CRACKLES violently around him --Picard is

jolted by the shock.

turns at the sound of the field, sees Picard, and then

draws his weapon. Soran quickly fires at Picard.

is BLASTED APART, creating a cloud of dirt and smoke,

obscuring Picard  and the whole area momentarily.

-- Soran jumps down one level on the scaffolding, his

-- The dust from the explosion finally CLEARS... but

glances up at the sky and sees the distant ENERGY

RIBBON just coming into view. There's no time to look

for Picard.

-- Soran begins to climb the scaffolding.

PLUMMETS into the planet's atmosphere.

The ship is shaking and rolling VIOLENTLY. Everyone

hanging on for dear life.

SERIES OF SHOTS:

Teachers and parents lead a group of children toward an

intersection. The parents go down one corridor, the

teachers and children down another. One child cries

out and tries to reach for its mother, but there's

no time -- a teacher keeps the child moving down the

hall...

People are bracing themselves for the crash, taking

emergency positions against walls, etc.

The ground is getting closer on the viewscreen.

The leading edge of the huge saucer TILTS UPWARD

Slightly. and then it HITS the surface. the saucer

begins to PLOW THROUGH the dense rain forest:  As the

ship continues to tear through the jungle, we INTERCUT

the following sequences.:

Riker and the others hanging on as the ship shakes

violently..

A family huddles for protection as the WINDOWS are

blown inward by debris...

The side window is BLOWN OUT... and Picard's photo

album is tossed across the room along with everything

else...

Outside the ship, we see a huge WALL of metal CRASHING

through the jungle, uprooting trees... dirt flying...

birds scrambling out of the way... an enormous scene of

destruction as it tears through the foliage...

The ship continues to jump and shake... every light on

the ship goes out in the crash. Finally, it comes to

a STOP. There is a long, quiet beat... then people

begin to stir in the darkened room.

who is slumped in his chair... he catches his breath,

lifts his face and looks up into... SUNLIGHT. He

shields his eyes and looks up at the ceiling and

reacts...

The sun is shining in through the shattered overhead

window on the top of the Bridge. There is a fluttering

sound as a couple of BIRDS perch on the rim of the

window.

The saucer has come to a stop in the middle of a RAIN

FOREST. The passage of the saucer has gouged a long

trail through the forest behind the ship. Off this

startling sight...

Soran is climbing up the scaffolding. He gets a couple

of levels up, and then suddenly a BOOT kicks him in the

face. Picard has made it inside the field.

A quick fight ensues, during which Picard is knocked a

few levels down on the scaffolding. He LANDS hard --

happens to look up into the sky. He sees something.--

The ENERGY RIBBON can be seen in the distant sky

-- a bizarre snake of color streaking across the deep blue

-- Picard avoids a vicious kick from Soran, glances

-- There is a THUNDEROUS ROAR as the launcher FIRES THE

-- The plateau is suddenly quiet as the probe streaks

-- They watch the sun for a silent moment, waiting...

begins to DARKEN and COLLAPSE, as seen before.

the scene DARKENS as the sun goes out... and NIGHT

FALLS on the planet.

Soran, a look of profound elation on his face, makes

his way to the top of the scaffolding and looks into

the sky.

gets to his feet and stares at the onrushing Ribbon,

the wind whipping up on the plateau. He backs away at

the sight, coming to a stop with his back against the

scaffolding. There's no where to run...

as the RIBBON OF ENERGY TEARS ACROSS THE SCENE IN A

TERRIFYING TORRENT OF LIGHT AND SOUND. THE SCENE IS

WASHED OUT BY A BLINDING FLOOD OF RED LIGHT... Then

suddenly the Ribbon is GONE... and so are Picard and

Soran. The plateau is strangely and utterly SILENT

after the passage of the Ribbon... even the birds have

stopped chirping in the trees.

As the ENERGY RIBBON rushes past the camera, a HUGE

SHOCKWAVE from the destroyed star HITS the planet and

it EXPLODES in a blast of fiery debris.

being led through a darkened HALLWAY. He is wearing a

blindfold. Off screen hands tug and pull at him,

leading him forward down the hall.

He's lost and confused, unsure where he is or what's

going on. He tries to resist, but can't... the hands

keep pulling at him...

He is finally brought out into a larger room, dark.

The hands release him and he stands alone. He takes a

beat and tries to take control of the situation.

Two hands reach into frame from off screen and remove

the blindfold...

The blindfold drops, revealing a blurry kaleidoscope of

COLORS and SHAPES...

as he blinks and tries to focus...

As the room comes into focus. The first thing we see

is an enormous, gaily decorated CHRISTMAS TREE

sparkling with hundreds of lights.

A 24th-century FRENCH LIVING ROOM. It is beautifully

decorated with lights, ornaments, holly. brightly

wrapped presents are clustered beneath the Christmas

tree. There are FIVE CHILDREN standing and sitting in

the room, all looking at Picard with bright, smiling

faces, waiting for him to say something.

Picard stares at the scene for a moment, unsure how to

react. Then we hear the woman's voice again, and we

move to reveal an attractive WOMAN in her forties

standing next to Picard.

Picard is stunned.

One of the children, a young GIRL, speaks up.

The children break out into applause. The woman kisses

him on the cheek, then steers him to a large,

overstuffed chair. Picard sits down and the

children starts handing out presents with much laughter

and chatting.

As the activity swirls around him, Picard begins to

feel an immense  sense of satisfaction and happiness.

It's like a drug -- an overwhelming feeling of joy and

contentment fills Picard. It's a wondrous experience.

He settles back in the chair and a smile spreads across

his face. For reasons he cannot name and does not even

want to understand at the moment, he is very, very

happy.

Picard answers as if it were the most natural thing in

the world.

All of the children now crowd around the chair with a

single large gift and hand it to Picard. One of the

younger boys speaks up.

Picard tears open the box and pulls out a 19th century

SEXTANT - an old-fashioned nautical navigational

instrument. It's a beautiful piece with polished and

gleaming brass.

Picard eyes it with delight.

The children react with pleasure. They cluster around

him, showering him with hugs and kisses.

Picard is covered in a blanket of love and affection.

The children pull back and return to their own

presents. There is a swirl of activity and commotion

as a warm and heartfelt Christmas morning is played

out.

Picard nods as the woman EXITS the room. He looks

around the scene, utterly happy, utterly content.

The children continue to chatter and laugh among

themselves as Picard's eye falls on the glorious

Christmas tree. He can't help but smile as he looks

over the ornaments and decorations...

of the sparkling lights and ornaments -- a swirl of

color and light.

His eye is caught by something in particular on the

tree. He leans forward slightly and stares at it.

His eye has been caught by an ORNAMENT near the

top of the tree. It is a large and beautiful glass

ball with a tiny LIGHT at the center in the shape of a

star. As Picard watches, the star suddenly GOES OUT...

and it radiates a SHIMMERING LIGHT EFFECT that expands

outward into the glass sphere.

It's a startling and beautiful ornament whose effect is

reminiscent of the star going out, as seen earlier in the

movie. But this is just coincidence. this is the way

the ornament was designed and it's simply one of many

ornaments on the tree.

reacts. The image of the ornament has touched a nerve

within him somewhere. It has reminded him of something

he'd nearly forgotten - a discordant note in an

otherwise wondrous and magical scene. He frowns, the

reverie momentarily disrupted. But he tries to push it

aside, not wanting the spell to be broken. He stands

and turns away from the tree and looks out a nearby

window -- it's snowing and the beautiful image of snow

soothes him for a moment. Then he reacts to something.

reflected on the pane of glass is the image of the

ornament -- it's still blinking. Picard now realizes

that this image is not going to go away... he can't

hide from it.

Picard turns to see

standing before him. She is wearing the same outfit

seen in the beginning of the movie on the Enterprise-B.

As they talk, the children and the woman continue to

move about their business as if Picard and Guinan

aren't there.

Picard is stunned.

Picard looks around.

Picard tries to make sense of it- he focuses on

Guinan.

Guinan smiles at him.

Picard glances over at the boy, who is building a play

castle out of the 24th-century equivalent of "Lego".

For a moment, Picard is tempted to drift back to the

warm embrace of the fantasy...

Picard looks around at the children... the lure to stay

here becoming more powerful.

There's a general rush toward the adjacent dining room.

The youngest boy looks at Picard, goes over to him and

takes his hand.

Picard looks down into the face of his child. His

heart swells, the temptation to stay here and live this

out is profound. Almost in a trance, he takes a few

steps with the child toward the dining room... His eye

is caught again by the unusual ornament on the tree for a

moment... torn between the two images. and then, in

one of the most difficult moments of his life, he bends

down to the child...

The boy looks at him quizzically for a moment, then

obeys his father and dashes off toward the dining room

to join the others. Picard straightens up and tries to

steel his voice.

Picard realizes the opportunity before him.

Picard looks crestfallen for a moment. Guinan gives

him an enigmatic smile.

Suddenly there's the cry of a HAWK from offscreen.

Picard turns at the sound --

Picard finds himself standing outside a rustic, but

Architecturally striking house with spectacular views

in the Canadian Rockies. A hawk is circling overhead,

making the crying sound that Picard heard. The air is

cold, frigid -- Picard can see his breath. Picard is

just starting to adjust to this sudden change in

location when he hears the sound of wood being CHOPPED

from around the corner of the house. Picard moves to

look around the corner and sees -

James T. Kirk. He's still in his uniform and looks

exactly as he did the last time we saw him aboard the

Enterprise-B at the beginning of the film. He is

vigorously chopping wood with an axe. He's enjoying

himself, lost in the sheer pleasure of the manual

labor. He's never felt this good in his life. There's

no trace of back pain or any other ailment. Picard

recognizes the famous Captain - as would any 24

Century Starfleet officer.

Kirk pauses, looks up at the strange man before him.

His expression is wondrous, almost child-like. Like in

Picard's Christmas sequence, Kirk is immersed in the

sensual feeling of the Nexus. It's like a dream that's

over-powered him.

Kirk points to a nearby log on the woodpile.

It takes Picard a beat before he realizes that Kirk

wants him to put the log on the chopping block for him.

Picard places the log on the block and Kirk gives it a

vigorous chop with the axe.

But Kirk interrupts as he sees something o.c.

Picard follows his look to see SMOKE billowing out of

one of the windows of the house. Kirk rushes into the

house, and Picard follows...

Kirk rushes in. The kitchen's decor is 19th century

with a few 23rd Century touches -- copper pans and an

antique stove mixed comfortably with computer consoles

and Starfleet paraphernalia. Picard hesitates in the

doorway -- a little unsure about rushing into some

stranger's house.

Kirk yanks a burning frying pan of food off the stove.

It's very hot -- he quickly sets it down near the sink,

waves the smoke away with his hand.

Picard comes in and tries to orient Kirk to what's

going on.

Before Kirk can react to this remark, an antique CLOCK

on a shelf CHIMES as it strikes the hour. Kirk moves

to the shelf and looks at the clock in surprise and

wonder -- he is entranced by this experience, beginning

to connect with things and memories from his past.

Kirk hears what Picard is saying, but like Picard in

his fantasy, he is more interested in the sights and

sounds around him. A dog barks from o.c. They both

look as a large black dog bounds into the room and greets

Kirk with enthusiasm.

Kirk is still looking around the kitchen when suddenly we

hear a WOMAN'S VOICE from somewhere upstairs that

stops Kirk in his tracks. As she speaks, we can see

the shock on Kirk's face.

A beat.

Kirk looks at the food on the stove. He's beginning to

realize something.

Kirk glances at Picard.

Kirk moves to a drawer and opens it. Inside is a

HORSESHOE with a tiny red bow tied to it. This

confirms things for Kirk. He picks up the horseshoe.

Kirk is swept up in the moment, overwhelmed by

memories, sensations, feelings. He goes back to the

frying pan and looks at the contents with a sudden

burst of recognition.

Picard steps in.

But Kirk's mind is clearly elsewhere... he's being

swept away by the emotion of the moment... realizing the

opportunity he suddenly has.

Kirk indicates a shelf, as if asking Picard to go to

it.

Kirk moves to the stove and tosses out the ruined eggs.

He cracks open two new eggs on the skillet and begins

preparing a breakfast. Picard waits for a moment, then

goes to the shelf, grabs the dill weed and hands it

to Kirk.

Kirk takes the bottle and uses it to season the eggs.

Kirk moves to a cabinet and begins putting plates on a

breakfast tray. Picard is getting a little impatient,

but stirs the eggs anyway.

Kirk takes the pan of eggs back from Picard.

But Picard's words mean almost nothing to Kirk. He is

Thoroughly enjoying himself and Picard is almost a

distraction. Kirk begins serving the eggs onto the

plates and grabs a small vase of flowers to put on the

tray.

Then he remembers and turns to look at a nearby toaster --

as if on cue, two slices of toast pop out. Kirk grins

and puts the toast on the plates. Kirk picks up the

tray and heads for the door.

Kirk goes out of the kitchen and Picard follows...

Kirk and Picard both on the move. Kirk heading for a

staircase.

Kirk tries to keep it light, hoping this man will go

away.

Kirk brushes past Picard and stops at the foot of the

stairs.

Kirk begins to climb the stairs.

He goes through a bedroom door and closes it behind

him. Picard glances around the room in frustration,

then gets a determined look on his face and marches up

the stairs after Kirk, grasps the doorknob, opens it

and steps through the door into

Picard suddenly finds himself standing in the doorway

of a wooden barn. Straw on the floor... farm

implements on the walls... sunlight streaming in

through the slats. There are stalls in the barn with

a few horses visible.

Kirk is standing a short distance away -- he looks

surprised as well... and he is no longer holding the

tray of food.

Kirk looks around for a moment, the pieces starting to

fall into place. He smiles with a growing

realization...

He points to a horse with a saddle on it.

Kirk moves to the barn door and opens it revealing a

beautiful spring day.

He turns to Picard.

Kirk grabs the horse, swings up onto the saddle, and

rides out of the barn, filled with excitement. Picard

watches him for a moment, then looks at one of the

other horses in the barn. he makes a decision and

then moves toward a saddle hanging on the wall...

Kirk is riding his horse hard over the countryside --

and across a stream... through a thicket of trees... and

finally out onto a rolling plain. There is a large

RAVINE up ahead. Kirk sees it and smiles tightly. He

spurs his horse faster toward the ravine... The horse

is tearing along... comes up to the edge of the

precipice, and makes a daring leap to the other side.

Horse and rider land together and Kirk spurs the horse

on. But as he rides, we begin to see a change come

over him -- a look of doubt crosses his face.

Something's not right. He slows the horse to a trot...

and then to a complete stop. He sits there for a

moment and frowns. turns and looks back at the

ravine, which is now a fair distance away. Something

about that jump is nagging at him...

He turns his horse around and then digs in his heels.

The horse breaks into a gallop, racing back toward the

ravine.

Kirk grips the reins tight in his hands and then the

horse makes the LEAP across yet again.

This time when Kirk lands, he brings his horse to an

immediate stop. We can see on his face that something

is very wrong. He turns and stares at the ravine with

a mixture of shock and sadness on his face.

In the distance, Picard can be seen approaching on a

horse of his own. He stops next to Kirk. There is a

long, quiet moment as the two men sit there side by

side. Kirk is introspective as he sorts through his

feelings...

A quiet beat. Kirk turns and looks toward a particular

hill in the distance, shading his eyes against the

bright sun. Picard follows his gaze and we can now see

the distant figure of a WOMAN walking her horse.

All euphoria is now gone from Kirk -- It's a moment of

self-revelation. He glances around.

Kirk takes a beat, then looks at Picard. And in a way,

he's truly seeing him for the first time.

There is a passion and a fervor in Kirk that we haven't

seen until now.

The two captains face each other for a moment. Picard

hears what Kirk is saying but also knows that's not the

whole story. Picard gives him a direct look, and there

is something in Picard's eyes -- a glint of resolve and

determination.

A long, silent beat as Kirk considers Picard. And slowly,

unexpectedly, a smile spreads across his face.

And for the first time, we can see the twinkle in his

eye that tells us Jim Kirk is back.

The two men turn and walk away from Antonia.and as

they walk, a ROAR OF COLOR AND SOUND WASHES OUT THE

SCREEN, as seen before.

FADE TO RED

FADE IN:

Soran is standing in front of the forcefield, facing

Picard.

We realize we are watching the same events play out

again.

Soran turns and begins to climb up the scaffolding

toward the top of the rock face. Picard drops to the

ground on his back and begins to wriggle underneath

the forcefield. Picard accidentally TOUCHES the

field...

turns at the sound of the field, sees Picard, and then

draws his weapon. Soran quickly FIRES at Picard.

is BLASTED APART, creating a cloud of dirt and debris,

obscuring Picard and the whole area momentarily.

Soran peers through the cloud of dust and debris.

Soran glances up at the sky and sees the ENERGY RIBBON,

then begins to climb the scaffolding. Suddenly a BOOT

kicks him in the head.

who is attacking Soran in Picard's place. The two men

begin to fight.

as Picard rushes to the probe launcher and steps up

onto the control platform and desperately begins trying

to shut down the launcher...

The following happens very quickly:

-- Kirk fights with Soran, hand-to-hand, brutal.

-- Picard works the control panel, trying to make sense

the distant energy ribbon can be seen getting closer...

Soran tries to pull his disruptor, but Kirk knocks it

to the ground. There's a struggle for the weapon...

-- Picard looks helplessly at the control panel.

Suddenly, Picard touches one particular control and the

screen CHANGES to an image of the Veridian SUN, held in

the center of the alien CROSS-HAIR.

begins working the control panel... desperate... he

looks at the screen... hits a control. Suddenly the

probe CLOAKS. Picard reacts at his mistake. Picard is

left standing on an invisible platform three feet in

the air -- a bizarre sight. Picard isn't sure what to

do -- he can feel the console, but he can't see any of

the controls.

-- Kirk punches Soran and sends him flying backward.

sees Picard standing in mid-air and then reaches down,

pulls the control PADD out of Soran's pocket. He

begins working it...

His eyes open... he sees what Kirk is doing... looks

around quickly... sees the disruptor lying a few feet

away, just beyond his reach...

Decloaks. Picard goes back to working on the controls.

he smiles.

Without warning, Kirk is BLASTED forward, shot from

behind. Reveal Soran on the ground with the disruptor

in his hand. He gets up, whirls around, points the

weapon at Picard.

The probe is suddenly LAUNCHED in a roar of flame.

Soran freezes. His eyes follow the probe as it arcs

into the sky. The two men watch the probe as it heads

toward the sun...

makes a sweeping turn to the right and arcs back down

toward the planet. Soran watches in horror as the

probe crashes harmlessly into the distant jungle. We

hear a muffled explosion.

can't believe his dreams have been shattered. He looks

into the sky and sees the distant ribbon streaking

overhead. The disruptor falls from his hand as he

rushes to the top of the scaffolding.

moves to Kirk, checks his pulse. The Captain's eyes

flutter -- he's still holding on, but he's badly

wounded.

is standing on the rock ledge. He reaches up toward

the sky as if trying to grab the Ribbon with his bare

hands...but the ribbon passes by and disappears.

His look of shock turns to fury and madness. He turns

to Picard.

He jumps down a few levels and then DIVES off the

scaffolding at Picard. But Picard is quicker. He

GRABS the disruptor and FIRES -- the BLAST CATCHES

SORAN IN MID-AIR .

Soran drops to the ground a short distance away. Dead.

The pocket watch has been shattered.

turns back to Kirk, cradles the dying man's head in his

lap. Kirk's eyes flick open, and he takes a ragged

breath.

Kirk coughs. His eyes flutter. He's fading fast.

Kirk coughs again

Kirk looks up at the sky. the sunlight is warm on his

face. A quiet moment... then, with a last smile on his

face

Kirk dies.

Hold te scene for a long moment, the two men in the

quiet clearing.

DISSOLVE TO:

Close on Picard's hand

as he places a stone on a large pile of other stones.

MOVE TO REVEAL that Picard is placing the final few

rocks on Kirk's grave.

He reaches into a pocket and pulls out Kirk's command

insignia pin. He carefully places it on the grave...

and stands there silently for a few moments.

A distant WHINE of engines can be heard. Picard looks

up into the sky...

An Enterprise SHUTTLECRAFT is flying through the sky

toward the mountaintop.

The shuttle has just landed, and the door OPENS as

Picard enters the clearing. Worf, Geordi and N.D.

security guards jump out to meet him.

Picard moves toward the shuttle... then stops as he

notices that the shuttle is damaged. Picard turns and

notices for the first time that La Forge has a bandage on

his face and Worf's uniform is torn.

Worf and La Forge exchange a look.

as seen before.

A hive of activity -- Crewmembers moving about,

carrying personal effects, equipment, etc. Some

wounded people being carried on stretchers...

The corridor is lit by emergency beacons and a HATCH

has been opened at one end of the Corridor leading to

the exterior of the ship. Daylight and jungle can be

seen outside.

MOVE ALONG the Corridor in find Beverly helping an

Injured crewmember into the arms of a waiting Medical

N.D. Ogawa walks up to her

Beverly nods. She looks exhausted.

Two medical N.D.s walk past, carrying an empty

stretcher. Beverly glances at them.

Data and Troi are looking through rubble in a different

section of the ship with tricorders. Troi reacts to

something on the tricorder.

Data moves to her, with a hopeful and excited look.

Data hands his tricorder to Troi and then begins to

pull debris aside with android strength.

As Data pulls aside a large piece of plating, revealing

Spot the Cat sitting in the wreckage. She looks at

Data and gives a plaintive meow.

He picks up the cat and holds it close, stroking its

fur. The cat purrs happily.

Troi smiles.

Data turns, revealing that there are tears in his eyes.

Troi is surprised and touched at the sight.

Troi puts a gentle hand on him.

Data looks up at her and smiles through his tears. OFF

the image of Data cuddling his cat.

Picard and Riker are sifting through the rubble of what

once was the Ready Room, looking for something...

Riker sees something in the rubble.

Riker holds up the family photo album seen earlier.

He takes the album... brushes off the dust and flips

through the pages for a moment. Riker looks around the

wrecked room.

Picard has been rejuvenated by his experience... given

a new perspective on the issues of life and death.

A quiet moment... Riker finally smiles.

Picard smiles back at him and the two men EXIT to...

Riker and Picard ENTER from the Ready Room. They look

around the wrecked Bridge for a moment. Riker glances

at the captain's chair.

A beat, then Picard hits his combadge.

The two men dematerialize.

FADE TO BLACK.

