A long time ago, in a galaxy far, far, away...

A vast sea of stars serves as the backdrop for the main title.

War drums echo through the heavens as a rollup slowly crawls

into infinity.

The awesome yellow planet of Tatooine emerges from a total

eclipse, her two moons glowing against the darkness. A tiny

silver spacecraft, a Rebel Blockade Runner firing lasers

from the back of the ship, races through space. It is pursed

by a giant Imperial Stardestroyer. Hundreds of deadly

laserbolts streak from the Imperial Stardestroyer, causing

the main solar fin of the Rebel craft to disintegrate.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

An explosion rocks the ship as two robots, Artoo-Detoo (R2-

D2) and See-Threepio (C-3PO) struggle to make their way

through the shaking, bouncing passageway. Both robots are

old and battered. Artoo is a short, claw-armed tripod. His

face is a mass of computer lights surrounding a radar eye.

Threepio, on the other hand, is a tall, slender robot of

human proportions. He has a gleaming bronze-like metallic

surface of an Art Deco design.

Another blast shakes them as they struggle along their way.

Rebel troopers rush past the robots and take up positions in

the main passageway. They aim their weapons toward the door.

The little R2 unit makes a series of electronic sounds that

only another robot could understand.

Artoo continues making beeping sounds. Tension mounts as

loud metallic latches clank and the scream of heavy equipment

are heard moving around the outside hull of the ship.

EXT. SPACECRAFT IN SPACE

The Imperial craft has easily overtaken the Rebel Blockade

Runner. The smaller Rebel ship is being drawn into the

underside dock of the giant Imperial starship.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

The nervous Rebel troopers aim their weapons. Suddenly a

tremendous blast opens up a hole in the main passageway and

a score of fearsome armored spacesuited stormtroopers make

their way into the smoke-filled corridor.

In a few minutes the entire passageway is ablaze with

laserfire. The deadly bolts ricochet in wild random patterns

creating huge explosions. Stormtroopers scatter and duck

behind storage lockers. Laserbolts hit several Rebel soldiers

who scream and stagger through the smoke, holding shattered

arms and faces.

An explosion hits near the robots.

Artoo counters with an angry rebuttal as the battle rages

around the two hapless robots.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - DAY

A death-white wasteland stretches from horizon to horizon.

The tremendous heat of two huge twin suns settle on a lone

figure, Luke Skywalker, a farm boy with heroic aspirations

who looks much younger than his eighteen years. His shaggy

hair and baggy tunic give him the air of a simple but lovable

lad with a prize-winning smile.

A light wind whips at him as he adjusts several valves on a

large battered moisture vaporator which sticks out of the

desert floor much like an oil pipe with valves. He is aided

by a beatup tread-robot with six claw arms. The little robot

appears to be barely functioning and moves with jerky motions.

A bright sparkle in the morning sky catches Luke's eye and

he instinctively grabs a pair of electrobinoculars from his

utility belt. He stands transfixed for a few moments studying

the heavens, then dashed toward his dented, crudely repaired

Landspeeder (an auto-like transport that travels a few feet

above the ground on a magnetic-field). He motions for the

tiny robot to follow him.

The robot scoots around in a tight circle, stops short, and

smoke begins to pour out of every joint. Luke throws his

arms up in disgust. Exasperated, the young farm boy jumps

into his Landspeeder leaving the smoldering robot to hum

madly.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - MAIN HALLWAY

The awesome, seven-foot-tall Dark Lord of the Sith makes his

way into the blinding light of the main passageway. This is

Darth Vader, right hand of the Emperor. His face is obscured

by his flowing black robes and grotesque breath mask, which

stands out next to the fascist white armored suits of the

Imperial stormtroopers. Everyone instinctively backs away

from the imposing warrior and a deathly quiet sweeps through

the Rebel troops. Several of the Rebel troops break and run

in a frenzied panic.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

A woman's hand puts a card into an opening in Artoo's dome.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER

Threepio stands in a hallway, somewhat bewildered. Artoo is

nowhere in sight. The pitiful screams of the doomed Rebel

soldiers can be heard in the distance.

A familiar clanking sound attacks Threepio's attention and

he spots little Artoo at the end of the hallway in a smoke-

filled alcove. A beautiful young girl (about sixteen years

old) stands in front of Artoo. Surreal and out of place,

dreamlike and half hidden in the smoke, she finishes adjusting

something on Artoo's computer face, then watches as the little

robot joins his companion.

Stormtroopers can be heard battling in the distance.

Artoo scoots past his bronze friend and races down the

subhallway. Threepio chases after him.

Artoo responds with electronic beeps.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - CORRIDOR

The evil Darth Vader stands amid the broken and twisted bodies

of his foes. He grabs a wounded Rebel Officer by the neck as

an Imperial Officer rushes up to the Dark Lord.

Vader squeezes the neck of the Rebel Officer, who struggles

in vain.

Vader lifts the Rebel off his feet by his throat.

The Rebel refuses to speak but eventually cries out as the

Dark Lord begins to squeeze the officer's throat, creating a

gruesome snapping and choking, until the soldier goes limp.

Vader tosses the dead soldier against the wall and turns to

his troops.

The stormtroopers scurry into the subhallways.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

The lovely young girl huddles in a small alcove as the

stormtroopers search through the ship. She is Princess Leia

Organa, a member of the Alderaan Senate. The fear in her

eyes slowly gives way to anger as the muted crushing sounds

of the approaching stormtroopers grow louder. One of the

troopers spots her.

Leia steps from her hiding place and blasts a trooper with

her laser pistol. She starts to run but is felled by a

paralyzing ray. The troopers inspect her inert body.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - SUBHALLWAY

Artoo stops before the small hatch of an emergency lifepod.

He snaps the seal on the main latch and a red warning light

begins to flash. The stubby astro-robot works his way into

the cramped four-man pod.

Artoo beeps something to him.

Artoo whistles something at his reluctant friend regarding

the mission he is about to perform.

Artoo isn't happy with Threepio's stubbornness, and he beeps

and twangs angrily.

A new explosion, this time very close, sends dust and debris

through the narrow subhallway. Flames lick at Threepio and,

after a flurry of electronic swearing from Artoo, the lanky

robot jumps into the lifepod.

INT. IMPERIAL STARDESTROYER

On the main viewscreen, the lifepod carrying the two terrified

robots speeds away from the stricken Rebel spacecraft.

INT. LIFEPOD

Artoo and Threepio look out at the receding Imperial starship.

Stars circle as the pod rotates through the galaxy.

Artoo beeps an assuring response.

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Heat waves radiate from the dozen or so bleached white

buildings. Luke pilots his Landspeeder through the dusty

empty street of the tiny settlement. An old woman runs to

get out of the way of the speeding vehicle, shaking her fist

at Luke as he flies past.

INT. POWER STATION - DAY

Luke bursts into the power station, waking The Fixer, a rugged

mechanic and Camie, a sexy, disheveled girl who has been

asleep in his lap. They grumbled as he races through the

office, yelling wildly.

Luke bounces into a small room behind the office where Deak

and Windy, two tough boys about the same age as Luke, are

playing a computer pool-like game with Biggs, a burly,

handsome boy a few years older than the rest. His flashy

city attire is a sharp contrast to the loose-fitting tunics

of the farm boys. A robot repairs some equipment in the

background.

Luke's surprise at the appearance of Biggs gives way to great

joy and emotion. They give each other a great bear hug.

Biggs has an air of cool that seems slightly phony.

Everyone laughs. The dazzling spectacle of his dashing friend

is almost too much for Luke, but suddenly he snaps out of

it.

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD - SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION -

DAY

The group stumbles out into the stifling desert sun. Camie

and The Fixer complain and are forced to shade their eyes.

Luke has his binoculars out scanning the heavens.

Biggs takes the binoculars from Luke as the others strain to

see something with the naked eye. Through the binoculars

Biggs sees two small silver specks.

Camie grabs the binoculars away banging them against the

building in the process. Luke grabs them.

The Fixer gives Luke a hard look and the young farm boy shrugs

his shoulders in resignation.

Luke agrees, although it's obvious he isn't sure why. The

group stumbles back into the power station, grumbling about

Luke's ineptitude.

INT. REBEL BLOCKADE RUNNER - HALLWAY

Princess Leia is led down a low-ceilinged hallway by a squad

of armored stormtroopers. Her hands are bound and she is

brutally shoved when she is unable to keep up with the briskly

marching troops. They stop in a smoky hallway as Darth Vader

emerges from the shadows. The sinister Dark Lord stares hard

at the frail young senator, but she doesn't move.

Leia is marched away down the hallway and into the smoldering

hole blasted in the side of the ship. An Imperial Commander

turns to Vader.

Another Imperial Officer approaches Vader and the Commander.

They stop and snap to attention.

Vader turns to the Commander.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial Stardestroyer comes over the surface of the

planet Tatooine.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT

Jundland, or "No Man's Land", where the rugged desert mesas

meet the foreboding dune sea. The two helpless astro-droids

kick up clouds of sand as they leave the lifepod and clumsily

work their way across the desert wasteland. The lifepod in

the distance rests half buried in the sand.

Artoo answers with beeping sounds.

Artoo continues to respond with beeping sounds.

Suddenly Artoo whistles, makes a sharp right turn and starts

off in the direction of the rocky desert mesas. Threepio

stops and yells at him.

A stream of electronic noises pours forth from the small

robot.

Artoo counters with a long whistle.

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

Artoo continues to make beeping sounds.

Threepio gives the little robot a kick and starts off in the

direction of the vast dune sea.

Artoo's reply is a rather rude sound. He turns and trudges

off in the direction of the towering mesas.

Artoo beeps to himself as he makes his way toward the distant

mountains.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNE SEA

Threepio, hot and tired, struggles up over the ridge of a

dune; only to find more dunes, which seem to go on for endless

miles.  He looks back in the direction of the now distant

rock mesas.

In a huff of anger and frustration, Threepio knocks the sand

from his joints. His plight seems hopeless, when a glint of

reflected light in the distance reveals an object moving

towards him.

The bronze android waves frantically and yells at the

approaching transport.

EXT. TATOOINE - ANCHORHEAD SETTLEMENT - POWER STATION - DAY

Luke and Biggs are walking and drinking a malt brew. Fixer

and the others can be heard working inside.

Biggs looks around then leans close to Luke.

Luke's eyes are wide with Biggs' seriousness and loyalty.

Luke, amazed and stunned, is almost speechless.

Biggs shakes his head angrily and then continues.

Biggs turns away from his old friend and heads towards the

power station.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SUNSET

The gargantuan rock formations are shrouded in a strange

foreboding mist and the onimous sounds of unearthly creatures

fill the air. Artoo moves cautiously through the creepy rock

canyon, inadvertently making a loud clicking noise as he

goes. He hears a distant, hard, metallic sound and stops for

a moment. Convinced he is alone, he continues on his way.

In the distance, a pebble tumbles down the steep canyon wall

and a small dark figure darts into the shadows. A little

further up the canyon a slight flicker of light reveals a

pair of eyes in the dark recesses only a few feet from the

narrow path.

The unsuspecting robot waddles along the rugged trail until

suddenly, out of nowhere, a powerful magnetic ray shoots out

of the rocks and engulfs him in an eerie glow. He manages

one short electronic squeak before he topples over onto his

back. His bright computer lights flicker off, then on, then

off again. Out of the rocks scurry three Jawas, no taller

than Artoo. They holster strange and complex weapons as they

cautiously approach the robot. They wear grubby cloaks and

their faces are shrouded so only their glowing eyes can be

seen. They hiss and make odd guttural sounds as they heave

the heavy robot onto their shoulders and carry him off down

the trail.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The eight Jawas carry Artoo out of the canyon to a huge tank-

like vehicle the size of a four-story house. They weld a

small disk on the side of Artoo and then put him under a

large tube on the side of the vehicle and the little robot

is sucked into the giant machine.

The filthy little Jawas scurry like rats up small ladders

and enter the main cabin of the behemoth transport.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - HOLD AREA

It is dim inside the hold area of the Sandcrawler. Artoo

switches on a small floodlight on his forehead and stumbles

around the scrap heap. The narrow beam swings across rusty

metal rocket parts and an array of grotesquely twisted and

maimed astro-robots. He lets out a pathetic electronic whimper

and stumbles off toward what appears to be a door at the end

of the chamber.

INT. SANDCRAWLER - PRISON AREA

Artoo enters a wide room with a four-foot ceiling. In the

middle of the scrap heap sit a dozen or so robots of various

shapes and sizes. Some are engaged in electronic conversation,

while others simply mill about. A voice of recognition calls

out from the gloom.

A battered Threepio scrambles up to Artoo and embraces him.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - SANDCRAWLER - SUNSET

The enormous Sandcrawler lumbers off toward the magnificent

twin suns, which are slowly setting over a distant mountain

ridge.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - DAY

Four Imperial stormtroopers mill about in front of the half-

buried lifepod that brought Artoo and Threepio to Tatooine.

A trooper yells to an officer some distance away.

A second trooper picks a small bit of metal out of the sand

and gives it to the first trooper.

EXT. TATOOINE - DUNES

The Sandcrawler moves slowly down a great sand dune.

INT. SANDCRAWLER

Threepio and Artoo noisily bounce along inside the cramped

prison chamber. Artoo appears to be shut off.

Suddenly the shaking and bouncing of the Sandcrawler stops,

creating quite a commotion among the mechanical men.

Threepio's fist bangs the head of Artoo whose computer lights

pop on as he begins beeping. At the far end of the long

chamber a hatch opens, filling the chamber with blinding

white light. a dozen or so Jawas make their way through the

odd assortment of robots.

A Jawa starts moving toward them.

Artoo responds, making beeping sounds.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT - LARS HOMESTEAD - AFTERNOON

The Jawas mutter gibberish as they busily line up their

battered captives, including Artoo and Threepio, in front of

the enormous Sandcrawler, which is parked beside a small

homestead consisting of three large holes in the ground

surrounded by several tall moisture vaporators and one small

adobe block house.

The Jawas scurry around fussing over the robots, straightening

them up or brushing some dust from a dented metallic elbow.

The shrouded little creatures smell horribly, attracting

small insects to the dark areas when their mouths and nostrils

should be.

Out of the shadows of a dingy side-building limps Owen Lars,

a large burly man in his mid-fifties. His reddish eyes are

sunken in a dust-covered face. As the farmer carefully

inspects each robot, he is closely followed by his slump-

shouldered nephew, Luke Skywalker. One of the vile little

Jawas walks ahead of the farmer spouting an animated sales

pitch in a queer, unintelligible language.

A voice calls out from one of the huge holes that form the

homestead. Luke goes over to the edge and sees his Aunt Beru

standing in the main courtyard.

Luke returns to his uncle as they look over the equipment

for sale with the Jawa leader.

As the Jawas start to lead the three remaining robots back

into the Sandcrawler, Artoo lets out a pathetic little beep

and starts after his old friend Threepio. He is restrained

by a slimy Jawa, who zaps him with a control box.

Owen is negotiating with the head Jawa. Luke and the two

robots start off for the garage when a plate pops off the

head of the red astro-droid's head plate and it sparks wildly.

The Jawa goes into a loud spiel. Meanwhile, Artoo has sneaked

out of line and is moving up and down trying to attract

attention. He lets out with a low whistle. Threepio taps

Luke on the shoulder.

With a little reluctance the scruffy dwarf trades the damaged

astro-droid for Artoo.

Owen pays off the whining Jawa as Luke and the two robots

trudge off toward a grimy homestead entry.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE AREA - LATE AFTERNOON

The garage is cluttered and worn, but a friendly peaceful

atmosphere permeates the low grey chamber. Threepio lowers

himself into a large tub filled with warm oil. Near the

battered Landspeeder little Artoo rests on a large battery

with a cord to his face.

Artoo beeps a muffled reply. Luke seems to be lost in thought

as he runs his hand over the damaged fin of a small two-man

Skyhopper spaceship resting in a low hangar off the garage.

Finally Luke's frustrations get the better of him and he

slams a wrench across the workbench.

Luke glances at the battered robot. A bit of his anger drains

and a tiny smile creeps across his face.

Artoo beeps in response. Luke unplugs Artoo and begins to

scrape several connectors on the robot's head with a chrome

pick. Threepio climbs out of the oil tub and begins wiping

oil from his bronze body.

Luke struggles to remove a small metal fragment from Artoo's

neck joint. He uses a larger pick.

The fragment breaks loose with a snap, sending Luke tumbling

head over heels. He sits up and sees a twelve-inch three-

dimensional hologram of Leia Organa, the Rebel senator, being

projected from the face of little Artoo. The image is a

rainbow of colors as it flickers and jiggles in the dimly

lit garage. Luke's mouth hangs open in awe.

Artoo looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer for Threepio

to translate. Leia continues to repeat the sentence fragment

over and over.

Artoo whistles his surprise as he pretends to just notice

the hologram. He looks around and sheepishly beeps an answer

for Threepio to translate. Leia continues to repeat the

sentence fragment over and over.

Luke becomes intrigued by the beautiful girl.

Luke reaches out for Artoo but he lets out several frantic

squeaks and a whistle.

Artoo whistles and beeps a long message to Threepio.

Luke's gazes at the beautiful young princess for a few

moments.

Artoo beeps something to Threepio.

Luke looks longingly at the lovely, little princess and hasn't

really heard what Threepio has been saying.

Luke takes a wedged bar and pops the restraining bolt off

Artoo's side.

The princess immediately disappears...

Artoo beeps an innocent reply as Threepio sits up in

embarrassment.

A women's voice calls out from another room.

Luke stands up and shakes his head at the malfunctioning

robot.

Luke tosses Artoo's restraining bolt on the workbench and

hurries out of the room.

Artoo beeps in response.

Artoo beeps.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - DINING AREA

Luke's Aunt Beru, a warm, motherly woman, fills a pitcher

with blue fluid from a refrigerated container in the well-

used kitchen. She puts the pitcher on a tray with some bowls

of food and starts for the dining area.

Luke sits with his Uncle Owen before a table covered with

steaming bowls of food as Aunt Beru carries in a bowl of red

grain.

Owen is greatly alarmed at the mention of his name, but

manages to control himself.

Owen breaks loose with a fit of uncontrolled anger.

Owen's face becomes a scowl, although he tries to suppress

it.

Luke continues to toy with his food, not looking at his uncle.

Luke pushes his half-eaten plate of food aside and stands.

Resigned to his fate, Luke paddles out of the room. Owen

mechanically finishes his dinner.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The giant twin suns of Tatooine slowly disappear behind a

distant dune range. Luke stands watching them for a few

moments, then reluctantly enters the doomed entrance to the

homestead.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - GARAGE

Luke enters the garage to discover the robots nowhere in

sight. He takes a small control box from his utility belt

similar to the one the Jawas were carrying. He activates the

box, which creates a low hum, and Threepio, letting out a

short yell, pops up from behind the Skyhopper spaceship.

Threepio stumbles forward, but Artoo is still nowhere in

sight.

Luke races out of the garage followed by Threepio.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

Luke rushes out of the small doomed entry to the homestead

and searches the darkening horizon for the small triped astro-

robot. Threepio struggles out of the homestead and on the

salt flat as Luke scans the landscape with his

electrobinoculars.

Owen yells up from the homestead plaza.

He takes one final look across the dim horizon.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - PLAZA

Morning slowly creeps into the sparse but sparkling oasis of

the open courtyard. The idyll is broken be the yelling of

Uncle Owen, his voice echoing throughout the homestead.

INT. LARS HOMESTEAD - KITCHEN

The interior of the kitchen is a worm glow as Aunt Beru

prepares the morning breakfast. Owen enters in a huff.

EXT. TATOOINE - DESERT WASTELAND - LUKE'S SPEEDER - DAY

The rock and sand of the desert floor are a blur as Threepio

pilots the sleek Landspeeder gracefully across the vast

wasteland.

INT./EXT. LUKE'S SPEEDER - DESERT WASTELAND - TRAVELING -

DAY

Luke leans over the back of the speeder and adjusts something

in the motor compartment.

Threepio signals that is fine and Luke turns back into the

wind-whipped cockpit and pops the canopy shut.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - DUNE SEA - COASTLINE - DAY

From high on a rock mesa, the tiny Landspeeder can be seen

gliding across the desert floor. Suddenly in the foreground

two weather-beaten Sandpeople shrouded in their grimy desert

cloaks peer over the edge of the rock mesa. One of the

marginally human creatures raises a long ominous laser rifle

and points it at the speeder but the second creature grabs

the gun before it can be fired.

The Sandpeople, or Tusken Raiders as they're sometimes called,

speak in a coarse barbaric language as they get into an

animated argument. The second Tusken Raider seems to get in

the final word and the nomads scurry over the rocky terrain.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK MESA - CANYON

The Tusken Raider approaches two large Banthas standing tied

to a rock. The monstrous, bear-like creatures are as large

as elephants, with huge red eyes, tremendous looped horns,

and long, furry, dinosaur-like tails. The Tusken Raiders

mount saddles strapped to the huge creatures' shaggy backs

and ride off down the rugged bluff.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR

The speeder is parked on the floor of a massive canyon. Luke,

with his long laser rifle slung over his shoulder, stands

before little Artoo.

The little droid whistles a feeble reply, as Threepio poses

menacingly behind the little runaway.

Suddenly the little robot jumps to life with a mass of frantic

whistles and screams.

Luke swings his rifle into position and looks to the south.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - RIDGE - DAY

Luke carefully makes his way to the top of a rock ridge and

scans the canyon with his electrobinoculars. He spots the

two riderless Banthas. Threepio struggles up behind the young

adventurer.

Luke watches the distant Tusken Raider through his

electrobinoculars. Suddenly something huge moves in front of

his field of view. Before Luke or Threepio can react, a large,

gruesome Tusken Raider looms over them. Threepio is startled

and backs away, right off the side if the cliff. He can be

heard for several moments as he clangs, bangs and rattles

down the side of the mountain.

The towering creature brings down his curved, double-pointed

gaderffii -- the dreaded axe blade that has struck terror in

the heart of the local settlers. But Luke manages to block

the blow with his laser rifle, which is smashed to pieces.

The terrified farm boy scrambles backward until he is forced

to the edge of a deep crevice. The sinister Raider stands

over him with his weapon raised and lets out a horrible

shrieking laugh.

EXT. TATOOINE - ROCK CANYON - FLOOR - DAY

Artoo forces himself into the shadows of a small alcove in

the rocks as the vicious Sandpeople walk past carrying the

inert Luke Skywalker, who is dropped in a heap before the

speeder.  The Sandpeople ransack the speeder, throwing parts

and supplies in all directions. Suddenly they stop. Then

everything is quiet for a few moments. A great howling moan

is heard echoing throughout the canyon which sends the

Sandpeople fleeing in terror.

Artoo moves even tighter into the shadows as the slight

swishing sound that frightened off the Sandpeople grows even

closer, until a shabby old desert-rat-of-a-man appears and

leans over Luke. His ancient leathery face, cracked and

weathered by exotic climates is set off by dark, penetrating

eyes and a scraggly white beard. Ben Kenobi squints his eyes

as he scrutinizes the unconscious farm boy. Artoo makes a

slight sound and Ben turns and looks right at him.

Artoo waddles over to were Luke lies crumpled in a heap and

begins to whistle and beep his concern. Ben puts his hand on

Luke's forehead and he begins to come around.

Ben ponders this for a moment, scratching his scruffy beard.

He suddenly looks up at the overhanging cliffs.

Luke sits up and rubs his head. Artoo lets out a pathetic

beep causing Luke to remember something. He looks around.

EXT. TATOOINE - SAND PIT - ROCK MESA - DAY

Little Artoo stands at the edge of a large sand pit and begins

to chatter away in electronic whistles and beeps. Luke and

Ben stand over a very dented and tangled Threepio lying half

buried in the sand. One of his arms has broken off.

Luke tries to revive the inert robot by shaking him and then

flips a hidden switch on his back several times until finally

the mechanical man's systems turn on.

Artoo makes a beeping sound.

Luke and Ben help the battered robot to his feet. Little

Artoo watches from the top of the pit. Ben glances around

suspiciously. Sensing something, he stands up and sniffs the

air.

INT. KENOBI'S DWELLING

The small, spartan hovel is cluttered with desert junk but

still manages to radiate an air of time-worn comfort and

security. Luke is in one corner repairing Threepio's arm, as

old Ben sits thinking.

Ben gets up and goes to a chest where he rummages around.

As Luke finishes repairing Threepio and starts to fit the

restraining bolt back on, Threepio looks at him nervously.

Luke thinks about the bolt for a moment then puts it on the

table. Ben shuffles up and presents Luke with a short handle

with several electronic gadgets attached to it.

Ben hands Luke the saber.

Luke pushes a button on the handle. A long beam shoots out

about four feet and flickers there. The light plays across

the ceiling.

Luke hasn't really been listening.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

Luke is cut short as the recorded image of the beautiful

young Rebel princess is projected from Artoo's face.

Luke stops his work as the lovely girl's image flickers before

his eyes.

There is a little static and the transmission is cut short.

Old Ben leans back and scratches his head. He silently puffs

on a tarnished chrome water pipe. Luke has stars in his eyes.

EXT. SPACE.

An Imperial Stardestroyer heads toward the evil planet-like

battle station: the Death Star!

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Eight Imperial senators and generals sit around a black

conference table. Imperial stormtroopers stand guard around

the room. Commander Tagge, a young, slimy-looking general,

is speaking.

The bitter Admiral Motti twists nervously in his chair.

Suddenly all heads turn as Commander Tagge's speech is cut

short and the Grand Moff Tarkin, governor of the Imperial

outland regions, enters. He is followed by his powerful ally,

The Sith Lord, Darth Vader. All of the generals stand and

bow before the thin, evil-looking governor as he takes his

place at the head of the table. The Dark Lord stands behind

him.

Suddenly Motti chokes and starts to turn blue under Vader's

spell.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The speeder stops before what remains of the huge Jawas

Sandcrawler. Luke and Ben walk among the smoldering rubble

and scattered bodies.

Ben is crouching in the sand studying the tracks.

Luke looks back at the speeder where Artoo and Threepio are

inspecting the dead Jawas, and put two and two together.

Luke reaches a sudden horrible realization, then races for

the speeder and jumps it.

Luke races off leaving Ben and the two robots alone with the

burning Sandcrawler.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

Luke races across the wasteland in his battered Landspeeder.

EXT. TATOOINE - LARS HOMESTEAD

The speeder roars up to the burning homestead. Luke jumps

out and runs to the smoking holes that were once his home.

Debris is scattered everywhere and it looks as if a great

battle has taken place.

Luke stumbles around in a daze looking for his aunt and uncle.

Suddenly he comes upon their smoldering remains. He is

stunned, and cannot speak. Hate replaces fear and a new

resolve comes over him.

EXT. SPACE

Imperial TIE fighter races toward the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Two stormtroopers open an electronic cell door and allow

several Imperial guards to enter. Princess Leia's face is

filled with defiance, which slowly gives way to fear as a

giant black torture robot enters, followed by Darth Vader.

The torture robot gives off a steady beeping sound as it

approaches Princess Leia and extends one of its mechanical

arms bearing a large hypodermic needle. The door slides shut

and the long cell block hallway appears peaceful. The muffled

screams of the Rebel princess are barely heard.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

There is a large bonfire of Jawa bodies blazing in front of

the Sandcrawler as Ben and the robots finish burning the

dead.  Luke drives up in the speeder and Ben walks over to

him.

EXT. TATOOINE - WASTELAND

The Landspeeder with Luke, Artoo, Threepio, and Ben in it

zooms across the desert. The speeder stops on a bluff

overlooking the spaceport at Mos Eisley. It is a haphazard

array of low, grey, concrete structures and semi-domes. A

harsh gale blows across the stark canyon floor. Luke adjusts

his goggles and walks to the edge of the craggy bluff where

Ben is standing.

Ben looks over at Luke, who gives the old Jedi a determined

smile.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder is stopped on a crowded street by several combat-

hardend stormtroopers who look over the two robots. A Trooper

questions Luke.

Luke becomes very nervous as he fumbles to find his ID while

Ben speaks to the Trooper in a very controlled voice.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

The speeder pulls up in front of a rundown blockhouse cantina

on the outskirts of the spaceport. Various strange forms of

transport, including several unusual beasts of burden, are

parked outside the bar. A Jawa runs up and begins to fondle

the speeder.

As Luke gets out of the speeder he tries to shoo the Jawa

away.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

The young adventurer and his two mechanical servants follow

Ben Kenobi into the smoke-filled cantina. The murky, moldy

den is filled with a startling array of weird and exotic

alien creatures and monsters at the long metallic bar. At

first the sight is horrifying. One-eyed, thousand-eyed, slimy,

furry, scaly, tentacled, and clawed creatures huddle over

drinks. Ben moves to an empty spot at the bar near a group

of repulsive but human scum. A huge, rough-looking Bartender

stops Luke and the robots.

Luke still recovering from the shock of seeing so many

outlandish creatures, doesn't quite catch the bartender's

drift.

Luke looks at old Ben, who is busy talking to one of the

Galactic pirates. He notices several of the gruesome creatures

along the bar are giving him a very unfriendly glare.

Luke pats Threepio on the shoulder.

Threepio and his stubby partner go outside and most of the

creatures at the bar go back to their drinks.

Ben is standing next to Chewbacca, an eight-foot-tall savage-

looking creature resembling a huge grey bushbaby monkey with

fierce baboon-like fangs. His large blue eyes dominate a fur-

covered face and soften his otherwise awesome appearance.

Over his matted, furry body he wears two chrome bandoliers,

and little else. He is a two-hundred-year-old Wookiee and a

sight to behold.

Ben speaks to the Wookiee, pointing to Luke several times

during his conversation and the huge creature suddenly lets

out a horrifying laugh. Luke is more than a little bit

disconcerted and pretends not to hear the conversation between

Ben and the giant Wookiee.

Luke is terrified but tries not to show it. He quietly sips

his drink, looking over the crowd for a more sympathetic ear

or whatever.

A large, multiple-eyed Creature gives Luke a rough shove.

The hideous freak is obviously drunk. Luke tries to ignore

the creature and turns back on his drink. A short, grubby

Human and an even smaller rodent-like beast join the

belligerent monstrosity.

The big creature is getting agitated and yells out some

unintelligible gibberish at the now rather nervous, young

adventurer.

The rodent lets out a loud grunt and everything at the bar

moves away. Luke tries to remain cool but it isn't easy. His

three adversaries ready their weapons. Old Ben moves in behind

Luke.

A powerful blow from the unpleasant creature sends the young

would-be Jedi sailing across the room, crashing through tables

and breaking a large jug filled with a foul-looking liquid.

With a blood curdling shriek, the monster draws a wicked

chrome laser pistol from his belt and levels it at old Ben.

The bartender panics.

With astounding agility old Ben's laser sword sparks to life

and in a flash an arm lies on the floor. The rodent is cut

in two and the giant multiple-eyed creature lies doubled,

cut from chin to groin. Ben carefully and precisely turns

off his laser sword and replaces it on his utility belt.

Luke, shaking and totally amazed at the old man's abilities,

attempts to stand. The entire fight has lasted only a matter

of seconds. The cantina goes back to normal, although Ben is

given a respectable amount of room at the bar. Luke, rubbing

his bruised head, approaches the old man with new awe. Ben

points the the Wookiee.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Threepio paces in front of the cantina as Artoo carries on

an electronic conversation with another little red astro-

droid. A creature comes out of the cantina and approaches

two stormtroopers in the street.

INT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

Strange creatures play exotic big band music on odd-looking

instruments as Luke, still giddy, downs a fresh drink and

follows Ben and Chewbacca to a booth where Han Solo is

sitting. Han is a tough, roguish starpilot about thirty years

old. A mercenary on a starship, he is simple, sentimental,

and cocksure.

Ben reacts to Solo's stupid attempt to impress them with

obvious misinformation.

Han ponders this for a few moments.

Ben and Luke turn around to see four Imperial stormtroopers

looking at the dead bodies and asking the bartenders some

questions. The bartender points to the booth.

The stormtroopers look over at the booth but Luke and Ben

are gone. The bartender shrugs his shoulders in puzzlement.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

INT. MOS EISLEY - CANTINA

As Han is about to leave, Greedo, a slimy green-faced alien

with a short trunk-nose, pokes a gun in his side. The creature

speaks in a foreign tongue translated into English subtitles.

Han sits down and the alien sits across from him holding the

gun on him.

Han Solo slowly reaches for his gun under the table.

Suddenly the slimy alien disappears in a blinding flash of

light. Han pulls his smoking gun from beneath the table as

the other patron look on in bemused amazement. Han gets up

and starts out of the cantina, flipping the bartender some

coins as he leaves.

EXT. SPACE

Several TIE fighters approach the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

An Imperial Officer interrupts the meeting.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Four heavily-armed stormtroopers move menacingly along a

narrow slum alleyway crowed with darkly clad creatures hawking

exotic goods in the dingy little stalls. Men, monsters, and

robots crouch in the waste-filled doorways, whispering and

hiding from the hot winds.

One of the troopers checks a tightly locked door and moves

on down the alleyway. The door slides open a crack and

Threepio peeks out. Artoo is barely visible in the background.

The door opens, Threepio moves into the doorway.

Artoo makes beeping sounds.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET - ALLEYWAY - USED

SPEEDER LOT

Ben and Luke are standing in a sleazy used speeder lot,

talking with a tall, grotesque, insect-like used speeder

dealer. Strange exotic bodies and spindly-legged beasts pass

by as the insect concludes the sale by giving Luke some coins.

Ben and Luke leave the speeder lot and walk down the dusty

alleyway past a small robot herding a bunch of anteater-like

creatures. Luke turns and gives one last forlorn look at his

faithful speeder as he rounds a corner. A darkly clad creature

moves out of the shadows as they pass and watches them as

they disappear down another alley.

INT. DOCKING BAY 94 - DAY

Jabba the Hut and a half-dozen grisly alien pirates and purple

creatures stand in the middle of the docking bay. Jabba is

the grossest of the slavering hulks and his scarred face is

a grim testimonial to his prowess as a vicious killer. He is

a fat, slug-like creature with eyes on extended feelers and

a huge ugly mouth.

A voice from directly behind the pirates startles them and

they turn around to see Han Solo and the giant Wookiee,

Chewbacca, standing behind them with no weapons in sight.

EXT. DOCKING PORT ENTRY - ALLEYWAY

Chewbacca waits restlessly at the entrance to Docking Bay

94.  Ben, Luke, and the robots make their way up the street.

Chewbacca jabbers excitedly and signals for them to hurry.

The darkly clad creature has followed them from the speeder

lot.  He stops in a nearby doorway and speaks into a small

transmitter.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Chewbacca leads the group into a giant dirt pit that is

Docking Bay 94. Resting in the middle of the huge hole is a

large, round, beat-up, pieced-together hunk of junk that

could only loosely be called a starship.

The tall figure of Han Solo comes down the boarding ramp.

Luke scratches his head. It's obvious he isn't sure about

all this. Chewbacca rushes up the ramp and urges the others

to follow.

The group rushes up the gang plank, passing a grinning Han

Solo.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

Chewbacca settles into the pilot's chair and starts the mighty

engines of the starship.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94

Luke, Ben, Threepio, and Artoo move toward the Millennium

Falcon passing Solo.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREET

Eight Imperial stormtroopers rush up to the darkly clad

creature.

The darkly clad creature points to the door of the docking

bay.

INT. MOS EISLEY SPACEPORT - DOCKING BAY 94]

The troops hold their guns at the ready and charge down the

docking bay entrance.

Han Solo looks up and sees the Imperial stormtroopers rushing

into the docking bay. Several of the troopers fire at Han as

he ducks into the spaceship.

Han draws his laser pistol and pops off a couple of shots

which force the stormtroopers to dive for safety. The

pirateship engines whine as Han hits the release button that

slams the overhead entry shut.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

The group straps in for take off.

EXT. TATOOINE - MOS EISLEY - STREETS

The half-dozen stormtroopers at a check point hear the general

alarm and look to the sky as the huge starship rises above

the dingy slum dwellings and quickly disappears into the

morning sky.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han climbs into the pilot's chair next to Chewbacca, who

chatters away as he points to something on the radar scope.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Corellian pirateship zooms from Tatooine into space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han frantically types information into the ship's computer.

Little Artoo appears momentarily at the cockpit doorway,

makes a few beeping remarks, then scurries away.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

The Millennium Falcon pirateship races away from the yellow

planet, Tatooine. It is followed by two huge Imperial

stardestroyers.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Over the shoulders of Chewbacca and Han, we can see the galaxy

spread before them. Luke and Ben make their way into the

cramped cockpit where Han continues his calculation.

EXT. SPACE - PLANET TATOOINE

Imperial cruisers fire at the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The ship shudders as an explosion flashes outside the window.

The ship begins to rock violently as lasers hit it.

The ship is now constantly battered with laserfire as a red

warning light begins to flash.

The galaxy brightens and they move faster, almost as if

crashing a barrier. Stars become streaks as the pirateship

makes the jump to hyperspace.

EXT. SPACE

The Millennium Falcon zooms into infinity in less than a

second.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Alderaan looms behind the Death Star battlestation.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Admiral Motti enters the quiet control room and bows before

Governor Tarkin, who stands before the huge wall screen

displaying a small green planet.

Vader and two stormtroopers enter with Princess Leia. Her

hands are bound.

Tarkin waves menacingly toward Leia.

Leia overhears an intercom voice announcing the approach to

Alderaan.

Leia lowers her head.

INT. DEATH STAR - BLAST CHAMBER

A button is pressed which switches on a panel of lights. A

hooded Imperial soldier reaches overhead and pulls a lever.

Another lever is pulled. Vader reaches for still another

lever and a bank of lights on a panel and wall light up. A

huge beam of light emanates from within a cone-shaped area

and converges into a single laser beam out toward Alderaan.

The small green planet of Alderaan is blown into space dust.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Ben watches Luke practice the lightsaber with a small "seeker"

robot. Ben suddenly turns away and sits down. He falters,

seems almost faint.

Ben rubs his forehead. He seems to drift into a trance. Then

he fixes his gaze on Luke.

Han Solo enters the room.

Luke is once again practicing with the lightsaber.

Threepio watches Chewbacca and Artoo who are engrossed in a

game in which three-dimensional holographic figures move

along a chess-type board.

Chewbacca and the two robots sit around the lighted table

covered with small holographic monsters. Each side of the

table has a small computer monitor embedded in it. Chewbacca

seems very pleased with himself as he rests his lanky fur-

covered arms over his head.

Artoo immediately reaches up and taps the computer with his

stubby claw hand, causing one of the holographic creatures

to walk to the new square. A sudden frown crosses Chewbacca's

face and he begins yelling gibberish at the tiny robot.

Threepio intercedes on behalf of his small companion and

begins to argue with the huge Wookiee.

Luke stands in the middle of the small hold area; he seems

frozen in place. A humming lightsaber is held high over his

head. Ben watches him from the corner, studying his movements.

Han watches with a bit of smugness.

Suspended at eye level, about ten feet in front of Luke, a

"seeker", a chrome baseball-like robot covered with antennae,

hovers slowly in a wide arc. The ball floats to one side of

the youth then the other. Suddenly it makes a lightning-swift

lunge and stops within a few feet of Luke's face. Luke doesn't

move and the ball backs off. It slowly moves behind the boy,

then makes another quick lunge, this time emitting a blood

red laser beam as it attacks. It hits Luke in the leg causing

him to tumble over. Han lets loose with a burst of laughter.

Ben smiles quietly.

Ben places a large helmet on Luke's head which covers his

eyes.

Han skeptically shakes his head as Ben throws the seeker

into the air. The ball shoots straight up in the air, then

drops like a rock. Luke swings the lightsaber around blindly

missing the seeker, which fires off a laserbolt which hits

Luke square on the seat of the pants. He lets out a painful

yell and attempts to hit the seeker.

Luke stands in one place, seemingly frozen. The seeker makes

a dive at Luke and, incredibly, he managed to deflect the

bolt. The ball ceases fire and moves back to its original

position.

Solo notices a small light flashing on the far side of the

control panel.

Han and Chewbacca head back to the cockpit.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Imperial Officer Cass stands before Governor Tarkin and the

evil Dark Lord Darth Vader.

EXT. HYPERSPACE

The pirateship is just coming out of hyperspace; a strange

surreal light show surrounds the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han pulls back on a control lever. Outside the cockpit window

stars begin streaking past, seem to decrease in speed, then

stop. Suddenly the starship begins to shudder and violently

shake about. Asteroids begin to race toward them, battering

the sides of the ship.

The Wookiee flips off several controls and seems very cool

in the emergency. Luke makes his way into the bouncing

cockpit.

Ben moves into the cockpit behind Luke as the ship begins to

settle down.

A signal starts flashing on the control panel and a muffled

alarm starts humming.

Chewbacca barks his concern. A huge explosion bursts outside

the cockpit window, shaking the ship violently. A tiny, finned

Imperial TIE fighter races past the cockpit window.

EXT. SPACE

The fighter races past the Corellian pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE

The pirateship zooms over the camera and away into the

vastness of space after the Imperial TIE fighter.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The tension mounts as the pirateship gains on the tiny

fighter. In the distance, one of the stars becomes brighter

until it is obvious that the TIE ship is heading for it. Ben

stands behind Chewbacca.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter is losing ground to the larger pirateship as

they race toward camera and disappear over head.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

The distant star can be distinguished as a small moon or

planet.

The small moon begins to take on the appearance of a monstrous

spherical battle station.

The pirateship shudders and the TIE fighter accelerates away

toward the gargantuan battle station.

Ben Kenobi puts a hand on his shoulder.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - DEATH STAR

As the battered pirate starship is towed closer to the awesome

metal moon, the immense size of the massive battle station

becomes staggering. Running along the equator of the gigantic

sphere is a mile-high band of huge docking ports into which

the helpless pirateship is dragged.

EXT. DEATH STAR - HUGE PORT DOORS

The helpless Millennium Falcon is pulled past a docking port

control room and huge laser turret cannons.

VOICE OVER DEATH STAR INTERCOM

Clear Bay twenty-three-seven. We are opening the magnetic

field.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

The pirateship is pulled in through port doors of the Death

Star, coming to rest in a huge hangar. Thirty stormtroopers

stand at attention in a central assembly area.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Stormtroopers run to their posts.

INT. DEATH STAR - HANGAR 2037

A line of stormtroopers march toward the pirateship in

readiness to board it, while other troopers stand with weapons

ready to fire.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Tarkin pushes a button and responds to the intercom buzz.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY 2037

Vader and a commander approach the troops as an Officer and

several heavily armed troops exit the spacecraft.

Vader turns quickly and exits the hangar.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HALLWAY

A trooper runs through the hallway heading for the exit. In

a few moments all is quiet. The muffled sounds of a distant

officer giving orders finally fade. Two floor panels suddenly

pop up revealing Han Solo and Luke. Ben Kenobi sticks his

head out of a third locker.

Han shakes his head, muttering to himself. Chewbacca agrees.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

The crewmen carry a heavy box on board the ship, past the

two stormtroopers guarding either side of the ramp.

The crewmen enter the pirateship and a loud crashing sound

is followed by a voice calling to the guard below.

The stormtroopers enter the ship and a quick round of gunfire

is heard.

INT. DEATH STAR - FORWARD BAY - COMMAND OFFICE

In a very small command office near the entrance to the

pirateship, a Gantry Officer looks out his window and notices

the guards are missing. He speaks into the comlink.

A stormtrooper comes down the ramp of the pirateship and

waves to the gantry officer, pointing to his ear indicating

his comlink is not working. The gantry officer shakes his

head in disgust and heads for the door, giving his aide an

annoyed look.

As the officer approaches the door, it slides open revealing

the towering Chewbacca. The gantry officer, in a momentary

state of shock, stumbles backward. With a bone- chilling

howl, the giant Wookiee flattens the officer with one blow.

The aide immediately reaches for his pistol, but is blasted

by Han, dressed as an Imperial stormtrooper. Ben and the

robots enter the room quickly followed by Luke, also dressed

as a stormtrooper. Luke quickly removes his helmet.

Ben feeds some information into the computer and a map of

the city appears on the monitor. He begins to inspect it

carefully. Threepio and Artoo look over the control panel.

Artoo finds something that makes him whistle wildly.

Artoo punches his claw arm into the computer socket and the

vast Imperial brain network comes to life, feeding information

to the little robot. After a few moments, he beeps something.

The computer monitor flashes readouts.

Ben studies the data on the monitor readout.

Ben adjusts the lightsaber on his belt and silently steps

out of the command office, then disappears down a long grey

hallway. Chewbacca barks a comment and Han shakes his head

in agreement.

Han looks at Luke.

Suddenly Artoo begins to whistle and beep a blue streak.

Luke goes over to him.

Artoo whistles a frantic reply.

Chewbacca growls.

Han looks at Chewie, who grunts a short grunt.

Luke moves toward Chewbacca with electronic cuffs.

Chewie lets out a hideous growl.

Luke sheepishly hands the binders to Han.

The Wookiee has a worried and frightened look on his face as

Han binds him with the electronic cuffs.

Luke and Han put on their armored stormtrooper helmets and

start off into the giant Imperial Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - ELEVATOR TUBE

Han and Luke try to look inconspicuous in their armored suits

as they wait for a vacuum elevator to arrive. Troops,

bureaucrats, and robots bustle about, ignoring the trio

completely. Only a few give the giant Wookiee a curious

glance.

Finally a small elevator arrives and the trio enters.

A bureaucrat races to get aboard also, but is signaled away

by Han. The door to the pod-like vehicle slides closed and

the elevator car takes off through a vacuum tube.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN HALLWAY

Several Imperial officers walk through the wide main

passageway. They pass several stormtroopers and a robot

similar to Threepio but with an insect face. At the far end

of the hallway, a passing flash of Ben Kenobi appears, then

disappears down a small hallway. His appearance is so fleeting

that it is hard to tell if he is real or just an illusion.

No one in the hallway seems to notice him.

INT. DEATH STAR - INTERIOR ELEVATOR - DETENTION SECURITY

AREA

Luke and Han step forward to exit the elevator, but the door

slides open behind them. The giant Wookiee and his two guards

enter the old grey security station. Guards and laser gates

are everywhere. Han whispers to Luke under his breath.

INT. DETENTION AREA

Elevator doors open. A tall, grim looking Officer approaches

the trio.

Chewie growls a bit at the remark but Han nudges him to shut

up.

The officer goes back to his console and begins to punch in

the information. There are only three other troopers in the

area. Luke and Han survey the situation, checking all of the

alarms, laser gates, and camera eyes. Han unfastens one of

Chewbacca's electronic cuffs and shrugs to Luke.

Suddenly Chewbacca throws up his hands and lets out with one

of his ear-piercing howls. He grabs Han's laser rifle.

The startled guards are momentarily dumbfounded. Luke and

Han have already pulled out their laser pistols and are

blasting away at the terrifying Wookiee. Their barrage of

laserfire misses Chewbacca, but hits the camera eyes, laser

gate controls, and the Imperial guards. The officer is the

last of the guards to fall under the laserfire just as he is

about to push the alarm system. Han rushes to the comlink

system, which is screeching questions about what is going

on.  He quickly checks the computer readout.

Luke races down one of the cell corridors. Han speaks into

the buzzing comlink.

Han blasts the comlink and it explodes.

INT. DEATH STAR - CELL ROW

Luke stops in front of one of the cells and blasts the door

away with a laser pistol. When the smoke clears, Luke sees

the dazzling young princess-senator. She had been sleeping

and is now looking at him with an uncomprehending look on

her face. Luke is stunned by her incredible beauty and stands

staring at her with his mouth hanging open.

Luke takes off his helmet, coming out of it.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONFERENCE ROOM

Darth Vader paces the room as Governor Tarkin sits at the

far end of the conference table.

There is a quiet buzz on the comlink.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION AREA - HALLWAY

An ominous buzzing sound is heard on the other side of the

elevator door.

Chewbacca responds with a growling noise.

A series of explosions knock a hole in the elevator door

through which several Imperial troops begin to emerge.

Han and Chewie fire laser pistols at them through the smoke

and flame. They turn and run down the cell hallway, meeting

up with Luke and Leia rushing toward them.

Luke takes a small comlink transmitter from his belt as they

continue to exchange fire with stormtroopers making their

way down the corridor.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN BAY GANTRY - CONTROL TOWER

Threepio paces the control center as little Artoo beeps and

whistles a blue streak. Threepio yells into the small comlink

transmitter.

Someone begins banging on the door.

INT. DEATH STAR - DETENTION CORRIDOR

Luke and Leia crouch together in an alcove for protection as

they continue to exchange fire with troops. Han and Chewbacca

are barely able to keep the stormtroopers at bay at the far

and of the hallway. The laserfire is very intense, and smoke

fills the narrow cell corridor.

Luke manages a sheepish grin and shrugs his shoulders.

The princess grabs Luke's gun and fires at a small grate in

the wall next to Han, almost frying him.

She jumps through the narrow opening as Han and Chewbacca

look on in amazement. Chewbacca sniffs the garbage chute and

says something.

Han gives him a kick and the Wookiee disappears into the

tiny opening. Luke and Han continue firing as they work their

way toward the opening.

Luke ducks laserfire as he jumps into the darkness. Han fires

off a couple of quick blasts creating a smokey cover, then

slides into the chute himself and is gone.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Han tumbles into the large room filled with garbage and muck.

Luke is already stumbling around looking for an exit. He

finds a small hatchway and struggles to get it open. It won't

budge.

Han draws his laser pistol and fires at the hatch. The

laserbolt ricochets wildly around the small metal room.

Everyone dives for cover in the garbage as the bolt explodes

almost on top of them. Leia climbs out of the garbage with a

rather grim look on her face.

A loud, horrible, inhuman moan works its way up from the

murky depths. Chewbacca lets out a terrified howl and begins

to back away. Han and Luke stand fast with their laser pistols

drawn. The Wookiee is cowering near one of the walls.

Suddenly Luke is yanked under the garbage.

Solo tries to get to Luke. Luke surfaces with a gasp of air

and thrashing of limbs. A membrane tentacle is wrapped around

his throat.

Leia extends a long pipe toward him.

Solo fires his gun downward. Luke is pulled back into the

muck by the slimy tentacle.

Suddenly the walls of the garbage receptacle shudder and

move in a couple of inches. Then everything is deathly quiet.

Han and Leia give each other a worried look as Chewbacca

howls in the corner. With a rush of bubbles and muck Luke

suddenly bobs to the surface.

Luke seems to be released by the thing.

Before anyone can say anything the walls begin to rumble and

edge toward the Rebels.

They place poles and long metal beams between the closing

walls, but they are simply snapped and bent as the giant

trashmasher rumbles on. The situation doesn't look too good.

Luke pulls out his comlink.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN GANTRY - COMMAND OFFICE

A soft buzzer and the muted voice of Luke calling out for

See-Threepio can be heard on Threepio's hand comlink, which

is sitting on the deserted computer console. Artoo and

Threepio are nowhere in sight. Suddenly there is a great

explosion and the door of the control tower flies across the

floor. Four armed stormtroopers enter the chamber.

A trooper pushes a button and the supply cabinet door slides

open. See-Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are inside. Artoo follows

his bronze companion out into the office.

The troops hustle off down the hallway, leaving a guard to

watch over the command office.

The guard aims a blaster at them.

The guard nods and Threepio, with little Artoo in tow, hurries

out the door.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

As the walls rumble closed, the room gets smaller and smaller.

Chewie is whining and trying to hold a wall back with his

giant paws.

Han is leaning back against the other wall. Garbage is

snapping and popping. Luke is trying to reach Threepio.

Han and Leia try to brace the contracting walls with a pole.

Leia begins to sink into the trash.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Little Artoo carefully plugs his claw arm into a new wall

socket and a complex array of electronic sounds spew from

the tiny robot.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The walls are only feet apart. Leia and Han are braced against

the walls. The princess is frightened. They look at each

other. Leia reaches out and takes Han's hand and she holds

it tightly. She's terrified and suddenly groans as she feels

the first crushing pressure against her body.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Artoo frantically beeps something to See-Threepio.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

Meanwhile, Luke is lying on his side, trying to keep his

head above the rising ooze. Luke's comlink begins to buzz

and he rips it off his belt.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Muffled sounds of Luke's voice over the comlink can be heard,

but not distinctly.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

Threepio holds his head in agony as he hears the incredible

screaming and hollering from Luke's comlink.

INT. DEATH STAR - GARBAGE ROOM

The screaming and hollering is the sound of joyous relief.

The walls have stopped moving. Han, Chewie and Leia embrace

in the background.

Luke moves to the pressure sensitive hatch, looking for a

number.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY - SERVICE PANEL

INT. DEATH STAR - TRACTOR BEAM - POWER GENERATOR TRENCH

Ben enters a humming service trench that powers the huge

tractor beam. The trench seems to be a hundred miles deep.

The clacking sound of huge switching devices can be heard.

The old Jedi edges his his way along a narrow ledge leading

to a control panel that connects two large cables. He

carefully makes several adjustments in the computer terminal,

and several lights on the board go from red to blue.

INT. DEATH STAR - UNUSED HALLWAY

The group exits the garbage room into a dusty, unused hallway.

Han and Luke remove the trooper suits and strap on the blaster

belts.

Luke smiles and scratches his head as he takes a blaster

from Solo.

Chewie begins growling and points to the hatch to the garbage

room, as he runs away and then stops howling.

The Dia Nogu bangs against the hatch and a long, slimy

tentacle works its way out of the doorway searching for a

victim. Han aims his pistol.

Han fires at the doorway. The noise of the blast echoes

relentlessly throughout the empty passageway. Luke simply

shakes his head in disgust.

Chewie shakes his head "no."

Han is stunned at the command of the petite young girl.

Han watches her start away. He looks at Luke.

They follow her, moving swiftly down the deserted corridor.

INT. DEATH STAR - POWER TRENCH

Suddenly a door behind Ben slides open and a detachment of

stormtroopers marches to the power trench. Ben instantly

slips into the shadows as an Officer moves to within a few

feet of him.

All but two of the stormtroopers leave.

Ben moves around the tractor beam, watching the stormtroopers

as they turn their backs to him. Ben gestures with his hand

toward them, as the troops think they hear something in the

other hallway. With the help of the Force, Ben deftly slips

past the troopers and into the main hallway.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Luke, Han, Chewbacca, and Leia run down an empty hallway and

stop before a bay window overlooking the pirateship. Troopers

are milling about the ship. Luke takes out his pocket comlink.

Han is watching the dozen or so troops moving in and out of

the pirateship. Leia moves towards Han, touches his arm and

points out the window to the ship.

Han gives her a dirty look, and they start off down the

hallway. They round a corner and run right into twenty

Imperial stormtroopers heading toward them. Both groups are

taken by surprise and stop in their tracks.

Before even thinking, Han draws his laser pistol and charges

the troops, firing. His blaster knocks one of the

stormtroopers into the air. Chewie follows his captain down

the corridor, stepping over the fallen trooper on the floor.

Han has already rounded a corner and does not hear.

Luke is furious but doesn't have time to think about it for

muted alarms begin to go off down on the hangar deck. Luke

and Leia start off toward the starship hangar.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Han chases the stormtroopers down a long subhallway. He is

yelling and brandishing his laser pistol. The troops reach a

dead end and are forced to turn and fight. Han stops a few

feet from them and assumes a defensive position. The troops

begin to raise their laser guns. Soon all ten troopers are

moving into an attack position in front of the lone

starpirate. Han's determined look begins to fade as the troops

begin to advance. Solo jumps backward as they fire at him.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Chewbacca runs down the subhallway in a last-ditch attempt

to save his bold captain. Suddenly he hears the firing of

laser guns and yelling. Around the corner shoots Han, pirate

extraordinaire, running for his life, followed by a host of

furious stormtroopers. Chewbacca turns and starts running

the other way also.

INT. DEATH STAR - SUBHALLWAY

Luke fires his laser pistol wildly as he and Leia rush down

a narrow subhallway, chased by several stormtroopers. They

quickly reach the end of the subhallway and race through an

open hatchway.

INT. DEATH STAR - CENTRAL CORE SHAFT

Luke and Leia race through the hatch onto a narrow bridge

that spans a huge, deep shaft that seems to go into infinity.

The bridge has been retracted into the wall of the shaft,

and Luke almost rushes into the abyss. He loses his balance

off the end of the bridge as Leia, behind him, takes hold of

his arm and pulls him back.

Blasts from the stormtroopers' laser guns explode nearby

reminding them of the oncoming danger. Luke fires back at

the advancing troops. Leia reaches over and hits a switch

that pops the hatch door shut with a resounding boom, leaving

them precariously perched on a short piece of bridge overhang.

Laserfire from the troopers continues to hit the steel door.

Luke blasts the controls with his laser pistol.

Luke looks at the blasted bridge control while the

stormtroopers on the opposite side of the door begin making

ominous drilling and pounding sounds.

Luke notices something on his stormtrooper belt, when

laserfire hits the wall behind him. Luke aims his laser pistol

at a stormtrooper perched on a higher bridge overhang across

the abyss from them. They exchange fire. Two more troops

appear on another overhang, also firing. A trooper is hit,

and grabs at his chest.

Another trooper standing on the bridge overhang is hit by

Luke's laserfire, and plummets down the shaft. Troopers move

back off the bridge; Luke hands the gun to Leia.

Luke pulls a thin nylon cable from his trooper utility belt.

It has a grappler hook on it. A trooper appears on a bridge

overhang and fires at Luke and Leia. As Luke works with the

rope, Leia returns the laser volley. Another trooper appears

and fires at them, as Leia returns his fire as well.

Suddenly, the hatch door begins to open, revealing the feet

of more troops.

Leia hits one of the stormtroopers on the bridge above, and

he falls into the abyss. Luke tosses the rope across the

gorge and it wraps itself around an outcropping of pipes. He

tugs on the rope to make sure it is secure, then grabs the

princess in his arms. Leia looks at Luke, then kisses him

quickly on the lips. Luke is very surprised.

Luke pushes off and they swing across the treacherous abyss

to the corresponding hatchway on the opposite side. Just as

Luke and Leia reach the far side of the canyon, the

stormtroopers break through the hatch and begin to fire at

the escaping duo. Luke returns the fire before ducking into

the tiny subhallway.

INT. DEATH STAR - NARROW PASSAGEWAY

Ben hides in the shadows of the narrow passageway as several

stormtroopers rush past him in the main hallway. He checks

to make sure they're gone, then runs down the hallway in the

opposite direction. Darth Vader appears at the far end of

the hallway and starts after the old Jedi.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Threepio looks around at the troops milling about the

pirateship entry ramp.

Artoo, plugged into the computer socket, turns his dome left

and right, beeping a response.

INT. DEATH STAR - CORRIDOR - BLAST SHIELDS DOOR

Han and Chewbacca run down a long corridor with several

troopers hot on their trail.

At the end of the hallway, blast doors begin to close in

front of them. The young starpilot and his furry companion

race past the huge doors just as they are closing, and manage

to get off a couple off laserblasts at the pursuing troops

before the doors slam shut.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY LEADING TO MAIN FORWARD BAY

Ben hurries along one of the tunnels leading to the hangar

where the pirateship waits. Just before he reaches the hangar,

Darth Vader steps into view at the end of the tunnel, not

ten feet away. Vader lights his saber. Ben also ignites his

and steps slowly forward.

Ben Kenobi moves with elegant ease into a classical offensive

position. The fearsome Dark Knight takes a defensive stance.

The two Galactic warriors stand perfectly still for a few

moments, sizing each other up and waiting for the right

moment. Ben seems to be under increasing pressure and strain,

as if an invisible weight were being placed upon him. He

shakes his head and, blinking, tries to clear his eyes.

Ben makes a sudden lunge at the huge warrior but is checked

by a lightning movement of The Sith. A masterful slash stroke

by Vader is blocked by the old Jedi. Another of the Jedi's

blows is blocked, then countered. Ben moves around the Dark

Lord and starts backing into the massive starship hangar.

The two powerful warriors stand motionless for a few moments

with laser swords locked in mid-air, creating a low buzzing

sound.

Their lightsabers continue to meet in combat.

INT. DEATH STAR - MAIN FORWARD BAY

Han Solo and Chewbacca, their weapons in hand, lean back

against the wall surveying the forward bay, watching the

Imperial stormtroopers make their rounds of the hangar.

Chewbacca growls a reply, as Luke and the princess join them.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Vader and Ben Kenobi continue their powerful duel. As they

hit their lightsabers together, lightning flashes on impact.

Troopers look on in interest as the old Jedi and Dark Lord

of The Sith fight. Suddenly Luke spots the battle from his

group's vantage point.

Luke, Leia, Han, and Chewie look up and see Ben and Vader

emerging from the hallways on the far side of the docking

bay.

INT. DEATH STAR - DOCKING BAY

Threepio and Artoo-Detoo are in the center of the Death Star's

Imperial docking bay.

Threepio ducks out of sight as the seven stormtroopers who

were guarding the starship rush past them heading towards

Ben and The Sith Knight. He pulls on Artoo.

INT. DEATH STAR - HALLWAY

Solo, Chewie, Luke, and Leia tensely watch the duel. The

troops rush toward the battling knights.

They start for the Millennium Falcon. Ben sees the troops

charging toward him and realizes that he is trapped. Vader

takes advantage of Ben's momentary distraction and brings

his mighty lightsaber down on the old man. Ben manages to

deflect the blow and swiftly turns around.

The old Jedi Knight looks over his shoulder at Luke, lifts

his sword from Vader's then watches his opponent with a serene

look on his face.

Vader brings his sword down, cutting old Ben in half. Ben's

cloak falls to the floor in two parts, but Ben is not in it.

Vader is puzzled at Ben's disappearance and pokes at the

empty cloak. As the guards are distracted, the adventurers

and the robots reach the starship. Luke sees Ben cut in two

and starts for him. Aghast, he yells out.

The stormtroopers turn toward Luke and begin firing at him.

The robots are already moving up the ramp into the Millennium

Falcon, while Luke, transfixed by anger and awe, returns

their fire. Solo joins in the laserfire. Vader looks up and

advances toward them, as one of his troopers is struck down.

Luke fires his pistol at the door control panel, and it

explodes. The door begins to slide shut. Three troopers charge

forward firing laser bolts, as the door slides to a close

behind them, shutting Vader and the other troops out of the

docking bay. A stormtrooper lies dead at the feet of his

onrushing compatriots. Luke starts for the advancing troops,

as Solo and Leia move up the ramp into the pirateship. He

fires, hitting a stormtrooper, who crumbles to the floor.

Luke looks around to see where the voice came from. He turns

toward the pirateship, ducking Imperial gunfire from the

troopers and races into the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han pulls back on the controls and the ship begins to move.

The dull thud of laser bolts bouncing off the outside of the

ship as Chewie adjusts his controls.

Chewbacca growls in agreement.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON

The Millennium Falcon powers away from the Death Star docking

bay, makes a spectacular turn and disappears into the vastness

of space.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke, saddened by the loss of Obi-Wan Kenobi, stares off

blankly as the robots look on. Leia puts a blanket around

him protectively, and Luke turns and looks up at her. She

sits down beside him.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo spots approaching enemy ships.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CENTRAL HOLD AREA

Luke looks downward sadly, shaking his head back and forth,

as the princess smiles comfortingly at him.

Artoo-Detoo beeps a reply.

Han rushes into the hold area where Luke is sitting with the

princess.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Solo climbs into his attack position in the topside gunport.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Luke gets up and moves out toward the gunports as Leia heads

for the cockpit.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Luke climbs down the ladder into the gunport cockpit, settling

into one of the two main laser cannons mounted in large

rotating turrets on either side of the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT

Han adjusts his headset as he sits before the controls of

his laser cannon, then speaks into the attached microphone.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS - COCKPIT

Chewbacca and Princess Leia search the heavens for attacking

TIE fighters. The Wookiee pulls back on the speed controls

as the ship bounces slightly.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - SOLO'S GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Computer graphic readouts form on Solo's target screen, as

Han reaches for controls.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT - COCKPIT

Luke sits in readiness for the attack, his hand on the laser

cannon's control button.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT.

Chewbacca spots the enemy ships and barks.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - POV (POINT OF VIEW) -

SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighters move towards the Millennium Falcon,

one each veering off to the left and right of the pirateship.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The stars whip past behind the Imperial pilot as he adjusts

his maneuvering joy stick.

EXT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - IN SPACE

The TIE fighter races past the Falcon, firing laser beams as

it passes.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - HOLD AREA

Threepio is seated in the hold area, next to Artoo-Detoo.

The pirateship bounces and vibrates as the power goes out in

the room and then comes back on.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

A TIE fighter maneuvers in front of Han, who follows it and

fires at it with the laser cannon. Luke does likewise, as

the fighter streaks into view. The ship has suffered a minor

hit, and bounces slightly.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters dive down toward the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at an unseen fighter.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON/TIE FIGHTERS

Pan with pirateship as two TIE fighters charge through the

background. Laserbolts streak from all the craft.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - CHEWBACCA

The ship shudders as a laserbolt hits very close to the

cockpit. The Wookiee chatters something to Leia.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER - SPACE

Full shot of a TIE fighter as it moves fast through the frame,

firing on the pirate starship.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTERS

The two TIE fighters fire a barrage of laserbeams at the

pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - MAIN PASSAGEWAY

A laserbolt streaks into the side of the pirateship. The

ship lurches violently, throwing poor Threepio into a cabinet

fill of small computer chips.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT - GUNPORTS

Leia watches the computer readout as Chewbacca manipulates

the ship's controls.

An enemy laserbolt hits the pirateship's control panel,

causing it to blow out in a shower of sparks.

Artoo-Detoo advances toward the smoking sparking control

panel, dousing the inferno by spraying it with fire retardant

beeping all the while.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Luke swivels in his gun mount, following the TIE fighter

with his laser cannon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo aims his laser cannon at the enemy fighter.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter streaks in front of the starship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Leia watches the TIE fighter ship fly over.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter heads right for the pirateship, then zooms

overhead.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke follows the TIE fighter across his field of view, firing

laserbeams from his cannon.

EXT. TIE FIGHTER

A TIE fighter dives past the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires at a TIE fighter. At his port, Han follows a

fighter in his sights, releasing a blast of laserfire. He

connects, and the fighter explodes into fiery dust. Han laughs

victoriously.

EXT. SPACE

Two TIE fighters move toward and over the Millennium Falcon,

unleashing a barrage of laserbolts at the ship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Another TIE fighter moves in on the pirateship and Luke,

smiling, fires the laser cannon at it, scoring a spectacular

direct hit.

Han turns and gives Luke a victory wave which Luke gleefully

returns.

Han turns back to his laser cannon.

EXT. SPACE

Two more TIE fighters cross in front of the pirateship.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

While Chewbacca manipulates the controls, Leia turns, looking

over her shoulder out the ports.

EXT. SPACE

A TIE fighter moves up over the pirateship, firing laserblasts

at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke and Han look into their respective projected target

screens. An Imperial fighter crosses Solo's port, and Han

swivels in his chair, following it with blasts from his laser

cannon. Another fighter crosses Luke's port, and he reacts

in a like manner, the glow of his target screen lighting his

face.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter zooms toward the pirateship, firing

destructive blasts at it.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORTS

Luke fires a laserblast at the approaching enemy fighter,

and it bursts into a spectacular explosion. Luke's projected

screen gives a readout of the hit. The pirateship bounces

slightly as it is struck by the enemy fire.

EXT. SPACE - TIE FIGHTER

The last of the attacking Imperial TIE fighters looms in,

firing upon the Falcon.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - GUNPORT

Solo swivels behind his cannon, his aim describing the arc

of the TIE fighter. The fighter comes closer, firing at the

pirateship, but a well-aimed blast from Solo's laser cannon

hits the attacker, which blows up in a small atomic shower

of burning fragments.

The princess jumps up and gives Chewie a congratulatory hug.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - PASSAGEWAY

Threepio lies on the floor of the ship, completely tangled

in the smoking, sparking wires.

Artoo turns his dome from side to side, beeping in response.

EXT. SPACE - MILLENNIUM FALCON

The victorious Millennium Falcon moves off majestically

through space.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Darth Vader strides into the control room, where Tarkin is

watching the huge view screen. A sea of stars is before him.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han, removes his gloves and smiling, is at the controls of

the ship. Chewie moves into the aft section to check the

damage. Leia is seated near Han.

Frustrated, Leia shakes her head.

She angrily turns, and as she starts out of the cockpit,

passes Luke coming in.

Luke, shaking his head, sits in the copilot seat. He and Han

stare out at the vast blackness of space.

Luke says it with finality and looks away. Han smiles at

young Luke's jealousy.

EXT. SPACE AROUND FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The battered pirateship drifts into orbit around the planet

Yavin and proceeds to one of its tiny green moons.

EXT. FOURTH MOON OF YAVIN

The pirateship soars over the dense jungle.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST

An alert guard, his laser gun in hand, scans the countryside.

He sets the gun down and looks toward the temple, barely

visible in the foliage.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE TEMPLE

Rotting in a forest of gargantuan trees, an ancient temple

lies shrouded in an eerie mist. The air is heavy with the

fantastic cries of unimaginable creatures. Han, Luke and the

others are greeted by the Rebel troops.

Luke and the group ride into the massive temple on an armored

military speeder.

INT. MASSASSI - MAIN HANGAR DECK

The military speeder stops in a huge spaceship hangar, set

up in the interior of the crumbling temple. Willard, the

commander of the Rebel forces, rushes up to the group and

gives Leia a big hug. Every one is pleased to see her.

Willard composes himself, steps back and bows formally.

EXT. SPACE

The surface of the Death Star ominously approaches the red

planet Yavin.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin and Lord Vader are interrupted in their

discussion by the buzz of the comlink. Tarkin moves to answer

the call.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

We are approaching the planet Yavin. The Rebel base is on a

moon on the far side. We are preparing to orbit the planet.

EXT. YAVIN - JUNGLE

A lone guard stands in a tower high above the Yavin landscape,

surveying the countryside. A mist hangs over the jungle of

twisted green.

INT. MASSASSI - WAR ROOM BRIEFING AREA

Dodonna stands before a large electronic wall display. Leia

and several other senators are to one side of the giant

readout. The low-ceilinged room is filled with starpilots,

navigators, and a sprinkling of R2-type robots. Everyone is

listening intently to what Dodonna is saying. Han and

Chewbacca are standing near the back.

Gold Leader, a rough looking man in his early thirties, stands

and addresses Dodonna.

Artoo-Detoo stands next to a similar robot, makes beeping

sounds, and turns his head from right to left.

A murmer of disbelief runs through the room.

Luke is sitting next to Wedge Antilles, a hotshot pilot about

sixteen years old.

The group rises and begins to leave.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star begins to move around the planet toward the

tiny green moon.

INT. DEATH STAR

Tarkin and Vader watch the computer projected screen with

interest, as a circle of lights intertwines around one another

on the screen showing it's position in relation to Yavin and

the forth moon.

DEATH STAR INTERCOM VOICE

Orbiting the planet at maximum velocity. The moon with the

Rebel base will be in range in thirty minutes.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR DECK

Luke, Threepio and little Artoo enter the huge spaceship

hangar and hurry along a long line of gleaming spacefighters.

Flight crews rush around loading last-minute armaments and

unlocking power couplings. In an area isolated from this

activity Luke finds Han and Chewbacca loading small boxes

onto an armored speeder.

Han is deliberately ignoring the activity of the fighter

pilots' preparation. Luke is quite saddened at the sight of

his friend's departure.

Luke goes off and Han hesitates, then calls to him.

Luke turns and sees Han wink at him. Luke lifts his hand in

a small wave and then goes off.

Han turns to Chewie who growls at his captain,

INT. MAIN HANGAR DECK - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke, Leia, and Dodonna meet under a huge space fighter.

Leia gives Luke a little kiss, turns, and goes off. As Luke

heads for his ship, another pilot rushes up to him and grabs

his arm.

Red Leader, a rugged handsome man in his forties, comes up

behind Luke and Biggs. He has the confident smile of a born

leader.

Red Leader pats Luke on the back as they stop in front of

his fighter.

Red Leader hurries to his own ship.

Luke laughs and shakes his head in agreement. He heads for

his ship.

As Luke begins to climb up the ladder into his sleek, deadly

spaceship, the crew chief, who is working on the craft, points

to little Artoo, who is being hoisted into a socket on the

back of the fighter.

The crewmen lower Artoo-Detoo into the craft. Now a part of

the exterior shell of the starship, the little droid beeps

that he is fine.

Luke climbs up into the cockpit of his fighter and puts an

his helmet. Threepio looks on from the floor of the massive

hangar as the crewmen secure his little electronic partner

into Luke's X-wing. It's an emotional-filled moment as Artoo

beeps good-bye.

Artoo beeps in agreement.

Artoo whistles his reply.

All final preparations are made for the approaching battle.

The hangar is buzzing with the last minute activity as the

pilots and crewmen alike make their final adjustments. The

hum of activity is occasionally trespassed by the distorted

voice of the loudspeaker issuing commands. Coupling hoses

are disconnected from the ships as they are fueled. Cockpit

shields roll smoothly into place over each pilot. A signalman,

holding red guiding lights, directs the ships. Luke, a trace

of a smile gracing his lips, peers about through his goggles.

Luke is confused at the voice and taps his headphones.

EXT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - JUNGLE

All that can be seen of the fortress is a lone guard standing

on a small pedestal jutting out above the dense jungle. The

muted gruesome crying sounds that naturally permeate this

eerie purgatory are overwhelmed by the thundering din of ion

rockets as four silver starships catapult from the foliage

in a tight formation and disappears into the morning cloud

cover.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

The princess, Threepio, and a field commander sit quietly

before the giant display showing the planet Yavin and its

four moons. The red dot that represents the Death Star moves

ever closer to the system. A series of green dots appear

around the fourth moon. A din of indistinct chatter fills

the war room.

EXT. SPACE

The Death Star slowly moves behind the massive yellow surface

of Yavin in the foreground, as many X-wing fighters flying

in formation zoom toward us and out of the frame.

EXT. SPACE - ANOTHER ANGLE

Light from a distant sun creates an eerie atmospheric glow

around a huge planet, Yavin. Rebel fighters flying in

formation settle ominously in the foreground and very slowly

pull away.

INT. RED LEADER STARSHIP - COCKPIT

Red Leader lowers his visor and adjusts his gun sights,

looking to each side at his wing men.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

One of the Rebel fighters checks in through his mike.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs checks his fighter's controls, alert and ready for

combat.

INT. PORKINS' COCKPIT

INT. WEDGE'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo, in position outside of the fighter, turns his

head from side to side and makes beeping sounds.

INT. RED LEADER'S FIGHTER - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE

The group of X-wing fighters move in formation toward the

Death Star, unfolding the wings and locking them in the "X"

position.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls as he concentrates on the

approaching Death Star. The ship begins to be buffeted

slightly.

INT. ANOTHER COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE

The fighters, now X-shaped darts, move in formation. The

Death Star now appears to be a small moon growing rapidly in

size as the Rebel fighters approach. Complex patterns on the

metallic surface begin to become visible. A large dish antenna

is built into the surface on one side.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge is amazed and slightly frightened at the awesome

spectacle.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE

As the fighters move closer to the Death Star, the awesome

size of the gargantuan Imperial fortress is revealed. Half

of the deadly space station is in shadow and this area

sparkles with thousands of small lights running in thin lines

and occasionally grouped in large clusters; somewhat like a

city at night as seen from a weather satellite.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around at his wingmen; the Death Star looming

in from behind. Two Y-wing fighters bob back and forth in

the background. He moves his computer targeting device into

position.

EXT. SPACE

Two squads of Rebel fighters peel off. The X-wings dive

towards the Death Star surface. A thousand lights glow across

the dark grey expanse of the huge station.

INT. DEATH STAR

Alarm sirens scream as soldiers scramble to large turbo-

powered laser gun emplacements. Electronic drivers rotate

the huge guns into position as crew adjust their targeting

devices.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts streak through the star-filled night. The Rebel X-

wing fighters move in toward the Imperial base, as the Death

Star aims its massive laser guns at the Rebel forces and

fires.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia listens to the battle over the intercom.

Threepio is at her side.

EXT. SPACE

An X-wing zooms across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DEATH STAR

Technical crews scurry here and there loading last-minute

armaments and unlocking power cables.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge maneuvers his fighter toward the menacing Death Star.

EXT. SPACE

X-wings continue in their attack course on the Death Star.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke nosedives radically, starting his attack on the monstrous

fortress. The Death Star surface streaks past the cockpit

window.

EXT. SPACE

Luke's X-wing races toward the Death Star. Laserbolts streak

from Luke's weapons, creating a huge fireball explosion on

the dim surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Terror crosses Luke's face as he realizes he won't be able

to pull out in time to avoid the fireball.

EXT. SURFACE OF DEATH STAR

Luke's ship emerges from the fireball, with the leading edges

of his wings slightly scorched.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts his controls and breathes a sigh of relief.

Flak bursts outside the cockpit window.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Rebel fighters continue to strafe the Death Star's surface

with laserbolts.

INT. DEATH STAR

Walls buckle and cave in. Troops and equipment are blown in

all directions. Stormtroopers stagger out of the rubble.

Standing in the middle of the chaos, a vision of calm and

foreboding, is Darth Vader. One of his Astro-Officers rushes

up to him.

INT. DEATH STAR

Smoke belches from the giant laser guns as they wind up their

turbine generators to create sufficient power. The crew rushes

about preparing for another blast. Even the troopers head

gear is not adequate to protect them from the overwhelming

noise of the monstrous weapon. One troopers bangs his helmet

with his hand in an attempt to stop the ringing.

INT. READ LEADER'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Red Leader flies through a heavy hail of flak.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Red Leader's X-wing flies past Luke as he puts his nose

down and starts his attack dive.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke flings his X-wing into a twisting dive across the horizon

and down onto the dim grey surface.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING TRAVELING

A shot hurls from Luke's guns. Laserbolts streak toward the

onrushing Death Star surface. Several small radar emplacements

erupt in flame. Laserfire erupts from a protruding tower on

the surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The blurry Death Star surface races past the cockpit window

as a big smile sweeps across Luke's face at the success of

his run. Flak thunders on all sides of him.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star superstructure races past Luke as he maneuvers

his craft through a wall of laserfire and peels away from

the surface towards the heavens.

INT. DEATH STAR

The thunder and smoke of the big guns reverberate throughout

the massive structure. Many soldiers rush about in the smoke

and chaos, silhouetted by the almost continual flash of

explosions.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs dives through a forest of radar domes, antennae, and

gun towers as he shoots low across the Death Star surface. A

dense barrage of laserfire streaks by on all sides.

INT. DEATH STAR

Imperial star pilots dash in unison to a line of small

auxiliary hatches that lead to Imperial TIE fighters.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia, surrounded by her generals and aides, paces

nervously before a lighted computer table. On all sides

technicians work in front of many lighted glass walls. Dodonna

watches quietly from one corner. One of the officers working

over a screen speaks into his headset.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke looks around to see if he can spot the approaching

Imperial fighters.

INT. RED LEADER'S X-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

The Death Star's surface sweeps past as Red Leader searches

the sky for the Imperial fighters. Flak pounds at his ship.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Silhouetted against the rim lights of the Death Star horizon,

four ferocious Imperial TIE ships dive on the Rebel fighters.

Two of the TIE fighters peel off and drop out of frame. Pan

with the remaining two TIE ships.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs panics when he discovers a TIE ship on his tail. The

horizon in the background twists around as he peels off,

hoping to lose the Imperial fighter.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs zooms off the surface and into space, closely followed

by an Imperial TIE fighter. The TIE ship fires several

laserbolts at Biggs, but misses.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Biggs see the TIE ship behind him and swings around, trying

to avoid him.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs, flying at high altitude, peels off and dives toward

the Death Star surface, but he is unable to lose the TIE

fighter, who sticks close to his tail.

INT. X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Luke is flying upside down. He rotates his ship around to

normal attitude as he comes out of his dive.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Biggs and the tailing TIE ship dive for the surface, now

followed by a fast-gaining Luke. After Biggs dives out of

sight, Luke chases the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SURFACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

In the foreground, the Imperial fighter races across the

Death Star's surface, closely followed by Luke in the

background.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

There is a shot from Luke's X-wing of the TIE ship exploding

in a mass of flames.

INT. DEATH STAR

Darth Vader strides purposefully down a Death Star corridor,

flanked by Imperial stormtroopers.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

A concerned Princess Leia, Threepio, Dodonna, and other

officers of the Rebellion stand around the huge round readout

screen, listening to the ship-to-ship communication on the

room's loudspeaker.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE

Luke's ship soars away from the Death Star's surface as he

spots the tailing TIE fighter.

INT. TIE FIGHTER'S COCKPIT

The TIE pilot takes aim at Luke's X-wing.

EXT. SPACE

The Imperial TIE fighter pilot scores a hit on Luke's ship.

Fire breaks out on the right side of the X-wing.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out of his cockpit at the flames on his ship.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke pours out from behind Artoo-Detoo.

Green laserfire moves past the beeping little robot as his

head turns.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke nervously works his controls.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

In the war room, Leia stands frozen as she listens and worries

about Luke.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke spots the TIE fighter behind him and soars away from

the Death Star surface.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship soars closer to the surface of the Death Star,

an Imperial TIE fighter closing in on him in hot pursuit.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The Death Star whips below Wedge.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Wedge dives across the horizon toward Luke and the TIE

fighter.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge moves his X-wing in rapidly.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke reacts frantically.

INT. TIE FIGHTER - COCKPIT

The fighter pilot watches Wedge's X-wing approach. Another X-

wing joins him, and both unleash a volley of laserfire on

the Imperial fighter.

EXT. SPACE

The TIE fighter explodes, filling the screen with white light.

Luke's ship can be seen far in the distance.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks about in relief.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia, Threepio, Dodonna and other Rebel officers are listening

to the Rebel Fighter's radio transmissions over the war room

intercom.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader peels off and starts toward the long trenches at

the Death Star surface pole.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing fighters of the Gold group dive out of the stars

toward the Death Star surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the screen, as

technicians move about attending to their duties.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships in precise formation dive toward

the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars

whip past in the window above his head.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Technicians are seated at the computer readout table.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader approaches the surface and pulls out to skim the

surface of the huge station. The ship moves into a deep

trench, firing laserbolts. The surface streaks past as

laserfire is returned by the Death Star.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT - TRAVELING

Gold Five is a pilot in his early fifties with a very battered

helmet that looks like it's been through many battles. He

looks around to see if enemy ships are near. His fighter is

buffeted by Imperial flak.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader races down the enormous trench that leads to the

exhaust port. Laserbolts blast toward him in increasing

numbers, occasionally exploding near the ship causing it to

bounce about.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three Y-wing skim the Death Star surface deep in the trench,

as laserbolts streak past on all sides.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

An exterior surface gun blazes away at the oncoming Rebel

fighters.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia, Threepio, and the technicians view the projected target

screen, as red and blue target lights glow. The red target

near the center blinks on and off.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three Y-wing fighters race toward camera and zoom overhead

through a hail of laserfire.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader pulls his computer targeting device down in front

of his eye. Laserbolts continue to batter the Rebel craft.

INT. GOLD TWO'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Two, a younger pilot about Luke's age, pulls down his

targeting eye viewer and adjusts it. His ship shudders under

intense laser barrage.

As the fighters begin to approach the target area, suddenly

all the laserfire stops. An eerie clam clings over the trench

as the surface whips past in a blur.

EXT. GOLD FIVE'S COCKPIT

Gold Five looks behind him.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three Imperial TIE ships, Darth Vader in the center flanked

by two wingmen, dive in precise formation almost vertically

toward the Death Star surface.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader calmly adjusts his control stick as the stars

zoom by.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters zoom across the surface of the Death Star.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader lines up Gold Two in his targeting computer. Vader's

hands grip the control stick as he presses the button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The cockpit explodes around Gold Two. His head falls forward.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

As Gold Two's ship explodes, debris is flung out into space.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader looks over his shoulder at the scene.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters race along in the trench in a tight

formation.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader panics.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five, the old veteran, trys to calm Gold Leader.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The Death Star races by outside the cockpit window as he

adjusts his targeting device.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

The older pilot remains calm.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Now he's really panicked.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader calmly adjusts his targeting computer and pushes the

fire button.

INT. GOLD LEADER'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Leader's ship is hit by Vader's laser.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Gold Leader explodes in a ball of flames, throwing debris in

all directions.

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

Gold Five moves in on the exhaust port.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks over his shoulder at the action outside of his

cockpit.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. GOLD FIVE'S Y-WING - COCKPIT

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

One of the engines explodes on Gold Five's Y-wing fighter,

blazing out of control. He dives past the horizon toward the

Death Star's surface, passing a TIE fighter during his

descent. Gold Five, a veteran of countless campaigns, spins

toward his death.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks nervously about him at the explosive battle.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grant Moff Tarkin and a Chief Officer stand in the Death

Star's control room.

Tarkin turns to the computer readout screen. Flames move

around the green disk at the center of the screen, as numbers

read across the bottom.

INT. READ LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks over at his wingmen.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna moves to the intercom as he fiddles with the computer

keys.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke nods his head.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The X-wing fighters of Luke, Biggs, and Wedge fly in formation

high above the Death Star's surface.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke peers out from his cockpit.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings move across the surface of the Death Star. Red

Leader's X-wing drops down to the surface leading to the

exhaust port.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks around to watch for the TIE fighters. He

begins to perspire.

EXT. SPACE

Red Leader roams down the trench of the Death Star as lasers

streak across the black heavens.

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

A huge remote-control laser cannon fires at the approaching

Rebel fighters.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The Rebel fighters evade the Imperial laser blasts.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks around for the Imperial fighters.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

From the cockpits of the Rebel pilots, the surface of the

Death Star streaks by, with Imperial laserfire shooting toward

them.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE - DEATH STAR TRENCH

Three X-wing fighters move in formation down the Death Star

trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks down at the Death Star surface below.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten looks up and sees the Imperial fighters.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters, Vader flanked by two wingmen, dive in a

tight formation. The sun reflects off their dominate solar

fins as they loop toward the Death Star's surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader pulls his targeting device in front of his eyes

and makes several adjustments.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Red Leader's X-wing moves up the Death Star trench.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks at his computer target readout screen. He

then looks into his targeting device.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control lever and dives on the X-wing

fighters.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

The three TIE fighters move in formation across the Death

Star surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader lines up his target on the targeting device cross

hairs.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader rapidly approaches the two X-wings of Red Ten and Red

Twelve. Vader's laser cannon flashes below the view of the

front porthole. the X-wings show in the center of Vader's

computer screen.

EXT. SPACE

Red Twelve's X-wing fighter is hit by Vader's laserfire, and

it explodes into flames against the trench.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Red Ten works at his controls furiously, trying to avoid

Vader's fighter behind him.

RED TEN: You'd better let her loose.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader is concentrating on his targeting device.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT.

Red Ten panics.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen whip through the trench in pursuit of

the Rebel fighters.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader cooly pushes the fire button on his control stick.

INT. RED TEN'S COCKPIT

Darth Vader's well-aimed laserfire proves to be unavoidable,

and strikes Red Ten's ship. Red Ten screams in anguish and

pain.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Red Ten's ship explodes and bursts into flames.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Grimly, Red Leader takes careful aim and watches his computer

targeting device, which shows the target lined up in the

cross hairs, and fires.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. DEATH STAR

An armed Imperial stormtrooper is knocked to the floor from

the attack explosion. Other troopers scurrying about the

corridors are knocked against the wall and lose their balance.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer screen.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader looks back at the receding Death Star. Tiny

explosions are visible in the distance.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR - TIE FIGHTER

Darth Vader peels off in pursuit as Red Leader's X-wing passes

the Death Star horizon.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader swings his ship around for the next kill.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke tries to spot Red Leader. He looks down at the Death

Star surface.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

A wary Red Leader looks about nervously.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks excitedly toward Red Leader's X-wing.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's gloved hands make contact with the control sticks,

and he presses their firing buttons.

INT. RED LEADER'S COCKPIT

Red Leader fights to gain control of his ship.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Laserbolts are flung from Vader's TIE fighter, connecting

with Red Leader's Rebel X-wing fighter. Red Leader buys it,

creating a tremendous explosion far below. He screams and is

destroyed.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks out the window of his X-wing at the explosion far

below. For the first time, he feels the helplessness of his

situation.

INT. DEATH STAR

Grand Moff Tarkin casts a sinister eye at the computer screen.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Dodonna and Princess Leia, with Threepio beside them, listen

intently to the talk between the pilots. The room is grim

after Red Leader's death. Princess Leia nervously paces the

room.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

The horizon twists as Wedge begins to pull out.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The two X-wings peel off against a background of stars and

dive toward the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three X-wings move in, unleashing a barrage of laserfire.

Laserbolts are returned from the Death Star.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Luke's lifelong friend struggles with his controls.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Flak and laserbolts flash outside Luke's cockpit window.

EXT. DEATH STAR - GUN EMPLACEMENTS

The Death Star laser cannon slowly rotates as it shoots

laserbolts.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks around for the Imperial TIE fighters. He thinks

for a moment and then moves his targeting device into

position.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks excitedly about for any sign of the TIE fighters.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

EXT. DEATH STAR SURFACE

Luke's X-wing streaks through the trench, firing lasers.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke breaks into a nervous sweat as the laserfire is returned,

knicking one of his wings close to the engine.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo works to repair the damages. The canyon wall rushes by

in the background, making his delicate task seem even more

precarious.

EXT. DEATH STAR

Two laser cannons are firing on the Rebel fighters.

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

Wedge looks up and sees the TIE ships.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke's targeting device marks off the distance to the target.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen zoom closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his controls and fires laserbolts at two X-

wings flying down the trench. He scores a direct hit on Wedge.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others are grouped around the computer board.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

INT. WEDGE'S COCKPIT

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Wedge pulls his crippled X-wing back away from the battle.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader watches the escape but issues a command to his wingmen.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Luke's X-wing speeds down the trench; the three TIE fighters,

still in perfect unbroken formation, tail close behind.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters. He is worried.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move ever closer, closing in on Luke

and Biggs.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks back anxiously at little Artoo.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Ignoring the bumpy ride, flak, and lasers, a beeping Artoo-

Detoo struggles to increase the power, his dome turning from

side to side.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Stealthily, the TIE formation creeps closer.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control stick.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs looks around at the TIE fighters.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Luke looks into his targeting device. He moves it away for a

moment and ponders its use. He looks back into the computer

targeter.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader and his wingmen race through the Death Star trench.

Biggs moves in to cover for Luke, but Vader gains on him.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs sees the TIE fighter aiming at him.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader squeezes the fire button on his controls.

INT. BIGGS' COCKPIT

Biggs' cockpit explodes around him, lighting him in red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Biggs' ship bursts into a million flaming bits and scatters

across the surface.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare at the computer board.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING COCKPIT

Luke is stunned by Biggs' death. His eyes are watering, but

his anger is also growing.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Grand Moff Tarkin watches the projected target screen with

satisfaction.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader takes aim on Luke and talks to the wingmen.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR - LUKE'S SHIP

Luke's ship streaks through the trench of the Death Star.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Princess Leia returns her general's worried and doubtful

glances with solid, grim determination. Threepio seems

nervous.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke concentrates on his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Three TIE fighters charge away down the trench toward Luke.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's finger's curls around the control stick.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke adjusts the lens of his targeting device.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship charges down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke lines up the yellow cross-hair lines of the targeting

device's screen. He looks into the targeting device, then

starts at a voice he hears.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The Death Star trench zooms by.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks up, then starts to look back into the targeting

device. He has second thoughts.

A grim determination sweeps across Luke's face as he closes

his eyes and starts to mumble Ben's training to himself.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's fighter streaks through the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Vader follows Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks to the targeting device, then away as he hears

Ben's voice.

Luke's hand reaches for the control panel and presses the

button. The targeting device moves away.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stand watching the projected screen.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship streaks ever close to the exhaust port.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING - COCKPIT

Luke looks at the Death Star surface streaking by.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Artoo-Detoo turns his head from side to side, beeping in

anticipation.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters, manned by Vader and his two wingmen,

follow Luke's X-wing down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader maneuvers his controls as he looks at his doomed target.

He presses the fire buttons on his control sticks. Laserfire

shoots toward Luke's X-wing fighter.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

A large burst of Vader's laserfire engulfs Artoo. The arms

go limp on the smoking little droid as he makes a high-pitched

sound.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks frantically back over his shoulder at Artoo.

EXT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER

Smoke billows out around little Artoo and sparks begin to

fly.

Artoo's beeping sounds die out.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others stare intently at the projected screen,

while Threepio watches the Princess. Lights representing the

Death Star and targets glow brightly.

INT. DEATH STAR - CONTROL ROOM

Tarkin glares at the projected target screen.

An officer reaches up and pushes buttons on the control panel,

as green lighted buttons turn to red.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters zoom down the Death Star trench in

pursuit of Luke, never breaking formation.

INT. LUKE'S COCKPIT

Luke looks anxiously at the exhaust port.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader adjusts his control sticks, checking his projected

targeting screen.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's ship barrels down the trench.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader's targeting computer swings around into position. Vader

takes careful aim on Luke's X-wing fighter.

He pushes the fire buttons.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

The three TIE fighters move in on Luke. As Vader's center

fighter unleashes a volley of laserfire, one of the TIE ships

at his side is hit and explodes into flame. The two remaining

ships continue to move in.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks about, wondering whose laserfire destroyed Vader's

wingman.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader is taken by surprise, and looks out from his cockpit.

INT. DARTH VADER'S WINGMAN - COCKPIT

Vader's wingman searches around him trying to locate the

unknown attacker.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Han and Chewbacca grin from ear to ear.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Millennium Falcon heads right at the two TIE fighters.

It's a collision course.

INT. WINGMAN'S COCKPIT

The wingman spots the pirateship coming at him and warns the

Dark Lord.

EXT. DEATH STAR TRENCH

Vader's wingman panics at the sight of the oncoming pirate

starship and veers radically to one side, colliding with

Vader's TIE fighter in the process. Vader's wingman crashes

into the side wall of the trench and explodes. Vader's damaged

ship spins out of the trench with a damaged wing.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Vader's ship spins out of control with a bent solar fin,

heading for deep space.

INT. DARTH VADER'S COCKPIT

Vader turns round and round in circles as his ship spins

into space.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Solo's ship moves in toward the Death Star trench.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

Solo, smiling, speaks to Luke over his headset mike.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - WAR ROOM

Leia and the others listen to Solo's transmission.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke looks up and smiles. He concentrates on the exhaust

port, then fires his laser torpedoes.

EXT. SURFACE OF THE DEATH STAR

Luke's torpedoes shoot toward the port and seems to simply

disappear into the surface and not explode. But the shots do

find their mark and have gone into the exhaust port and are

heading for the main reactor.

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke throws his head back in relief.

INT. DEATH STAR

An Imperial soldier runs to the control panel board and pulls

the attack lever as the board behind him lights up.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

Two X-wings, a Y-wing, and the pirateship race toward Yavin

in the distance.

INT. DEATH STAR

Several Imperial soldiers, flanking a pensive Grand Moff

Tarkin, busily push control levers and buttons.

The rumble of a distant explosion begins.

EXT. SPACE AROUND THE DEATH STAR

The Rebel ships race out of sight, leaving the moon-like

Death Star alone against a blanket of stars. Several small

flashes appear on the surface. The Death Star bursts into a

supernova, creating a spectacular heavenly display.

INT. MILLENNIUM FALCON - COCKPIT

INT. LUKE'S X-WING FIGHTER - COCKPIT

Luke is at ease, and his eyes are closed.

The ship rocks back and forth.

EXT. DARTH VADER'S TIE FIGHTER

Vader's ship spins off into space.

EXT. SPACE

The Rebel ships race toward the fourth moon of Yavin.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN HANGAR

Luke climbs out of his starship fighter and is cheered by a

throng of ground crew and pilots. Luke climbs down the ladder

as they all welcome him with laughter, cheers, and shouting.

Princess Leia rushes toward him.

She throws her arms around Luke and hugs him as they dance

around in a circle. Solo runs in toward Luke and they embrace

one another, slapping each other on the back.

Luke and Han look at one another, as Solo playfully shoves

at Luke's face. Leia moves in between them.

Luke looks toward the ship.

The fried little Artoo-Detoo is lifted off the back of the

fighter and carried off under the worried eyes of Threepio.

INT. MASSASSI OUTPOST - MAIN THRONE ROOM

Luke, Han, and Chewbacca enter the huge ruins of the main

temple. Hundreds of troops are lined up in neat rows. Banners

are flying and at the far end stands a vision in white, the

beautiful young Senator Leia. Luke and the others solemnly

march up the long aisle and kneel before Senator Leia. From

one side of the temple marches a shined-up and fully repaired

Artoo-Detoo. He waddles up to the group and stands next to

an equally pristine Threepio, who is rather awestruck by the

whole event. Chewbacca is confused. Dodonna and several other

dignitaries sit on the left of the Princess Leia. Leia is

dressed in a long white dress and is staggeringly beautiful.

She rises and places a gold medallion around Han's neck. He

winks at her. She then repeats the ceremony with Luke, who

is moved by the event. They turn and face the assembled

troops, who all bow before them. Chewbacca growls and Artoo

beeps with happiness.

END CREDITS OVER STARS

