FADE IN:

All we can see, filling the entire frame is a flame-orange

sky...almost like the sky from the burning of Atlanta in

"Gone with the Wind".

SUPERIMPOSE:  Presenter credit.

PAN DOWN lower and lower until we see the terrain below...

the desert.  There is no vegetation whatever, just sand and

odd-shaped rock formations.  The air is filled with red dust,

which alternately obscures and then reveals the image.

CAMERA MOVES FORWARD optically - enlarging the film grain in

the process.

SLOW DISOLVE

OPENING CREDITS BEGIN.

ANOTHER SHOT of a barren landscape, once more with bizarre

rocks.  Dust.  Sound of wind.  CAMERA MOVES FORWARD again.

DISSOLVE.

ANOTHER LANDSCAPE, but this time, in the distance are some

enormous plastic domes.  Sunlight striking them and reflect-

ing causes brilliant rainbows.  CAMERA optically tracks

toward the dome, seen in tantalizingly indistinct fashion

through the red dust.  DISSOLVE...

ANOTHER ANGLE, and, in the distance, on the horizon of the

arid landscape is a huge SPHINX-LIKE STRUCTURE.  (It is

reminiscent of the Egyptian sphinx, but both body and face,

though gargoyle-like, are different in design.)  There are

some large pyramids not far from the sphinx.  CAMERA MOVES

optically FORWARD.  DISSOLVE.

CAMERA is much closer to the sphinx and is directly in front.

It moves (combination of zoom and optical printer move)

towards the eyes, which appear to be red gems.

As CAMERA APPROACHES one of the eyes, it appears to be

stained red glass, as in a temple.  Suddenly there is a

terrific explosion and the glass shatters into millions of

fragments which hurtle toward the camera...

A MAN wearing a LIGHTWEIGHT THERMAL SUIT is RUNNING THROUGH

THIS LABYRINTH of TUNNELS.  The GROUND TREMBLES under him,

as if in an earthquake.  We cannot clearly make out his face,

especially since he wears some kind of BREATHING APPARATUS

over a portion of it.

The surface of the tunnel's "walls" is curious;  the walls

are, again, bright reddish orange, and a composite of two

different substances:  rough-textured, clay-like material

and red quartz, which glistens like crystal.

The man throws a backward glance over his shoulder, fear-

fully, as he runs.  His HANDS are SPLATTERED with BLOOD.

Because of this, the RED GLOW, the air of FEAR to the man,

and the GROUND HEAVING and BUCKLING, there is almost a

SATANIC suggestion to the scene.

Suddenly, up AHEAD of the man, there appears a BRILLIANT

WHITE LIGHT.  He SEES IT, and runs even faster towards it.

We are ALMOST UP TO THE LIGHT, and we SEE HANDS REACHING

OUT OF THE LIGHT TOWARDS US... that seem to beckon him to

SAFETY.

ABRUPTLY, the ENTIRE SCREEN GOES RED, BUT IN REVERSE NEGATIVE;

with YELLOW LAYOVERS.  (So that all the images we see --

ENTIRE FRAME -- are small YELLOW AREAS diffused on a RED

BACKGROUND.)  It is much like looking at a tableau made out

of molten lava.

SUPERIMPOSE MAIN TITLE:

HOLD.

DOUGLAS QUAIL and his wife KRISTEN, are asleep in bed.

Gradually the room lights BRIGHTEN.  The CLOCK CHIMES and

begins SPEAKING in a soft, feminine voice.

They don't budge.  Shortly, the clock CHIMES again.

Quail's wife stirs.  Maddeningly, the clock CHIMES a third

time.

Quail reaches out and shuts the clock off.  Then he sits up

in bed.

He swings his legs out from under the covers and sits on the

edge of the bed.  He puts on his glasses and sits, lost  in

thought.

He is a good-looking but conventional man in his early

thirties.  He seems rather in awe of his wife, who is

attractive and rather off-hand towards him.

Kirsten pulls on her robe, lights a cigarette, sits fishing

for her slippers.

Quail looks at her quizzically.

Quail looks crestfallen.

She leaves the room.  He meditates on what she said,

depressed.

Quail and Kirsten sit at a small table, eating breakfast.

On the WALL is projected the front page of a NEWSPAPER.

Drinking his coffee, Quail studies the wall with the air

of a man who had his "node stuck in a newspaper," ignoring

his wife.

The newspaper headline reads:  "RIOTING ON MARS OVER WATER

TAX."

His wife is reading a different article:  "Four Women Rape

Man in Park."

Quail is absorbed in his own paper and doesn't hear her.

She gestures toward the TV screen where Martian police

are keeping protesters behind a barrier.  Some have signs

reading "A FREE MARS", "DOWN WITH COHAAGEN", "EARTH - OUT"

etc.

The kitchen clock chimes and talks.

He jumps up quickly from the table, picks up his coat and

briefcase, kisses KIRSTEN's perfunctorily offered cheek

and leaves.

CAMERA TRACKS with Quail as he walks along the busy modern

street towards a subway station.  Modern cars (out of focus)

pass noiselessly between the camera and Quail.  There is a

plaintive tune being played on violin.  Quail pauses and

gives a wad of notes to the aged violinist, then walks on

briskly.

Quail enters the station.  Everybody must pass through a

weapons check before proceeding to the platforms.

TWO ARMED GUARDS stand at either side, as commuters pass

through an electronic beam.  On a screen, the entire body

of each person is seen in X-ray.  All of them are clearly

carrying a gun in their inside coat pocket.

GUARD gestures to his associate.  They've obviously been

through this with Quail before.

Quail walks on to the track area.  The train arrives.

Signs above each approaching car say "CAR FULL", "ROOM

FOR 10 PERSONS", etc.  Quail goes to a carriage marked

"NEW CAR".

The doors open and the crowd surges on.  Quail grabs a

seat.  At intervals throughout the car are VIDEO MONITORS

on which a NEWS BROADCAST is showing.

Everyone ignores the broadcast -- except Quail, who perks

instantly at the word "Mars."

The NEWSCASTER is a young black man.

TV scene switches to a press conference.  COHAAGEN, sur-

rounded by AIDES, steps in front of a podium packed with

news network microphones and cameras.  Cohaagen is a

striking, intense man with an obvious air of power.

The train stops at another station and more people pile on.

Quail tries to watch the broadcast through the bodies

passing in front of him and intermittently blocking the

image.

The news conference ends and a bright looking young man

comes on the screen.  Quail continues to watch, though

not as interested, initially, as he was by the Mars story.

Few of the other passengers bother looking at the screen.

Quail watches the commercial through to the end, but doesn't

seem to take it very seriously.  He glances away as a card

comes on the screen with REKALL's numbers.

Quail is seated at a computer console in a vast beehive

of a room.  Numerous people are typing information onto

the screens.  Quail pauses in his typing, thoughtful.  He

then types in a little more information, then pauses again.

On the screen, a sentence types itself...

WHY HAVE YOU STOPPED?  REQUEST MORE INFORMATION.

Quail read it and continues.

Scene opens on a CU of McCLANE, a genial, bubbling, enthus-

iastic man.

He presses a button on his desk and the chairs on which

they are seated appear to be in outer space.  Countless

stars glitter all around.  Startlingly, a comet whizzes by.

Quail is amazed.  McClane grins and presses the button

again.  The scene changes to a beautiful underwater coral

reef.  Multi-colored fish swim around the chairs and desk.

He presses the button again and the normal office returns.

Quail looks around, impressed.

He puts items on the desk as he talks.

Quail slumps backs in his chair, overwhelmed.

At the press of a button, a list appears on the wall...

A14  MILLIONAIRE PLAYBOY

A15  SPORTS HERO

A16  INDUSTRIAL TYCOON

A17  INTELLIGENCE AGENT

Quail's eyes linger on "Intelligence Agent."

He gets up and walks around to Quail's chair.

Quail is thoughtful, willing to be totally convinced.

Quail is sitting, distracted, in an uncomfortable modern

chair.  Kirsten is watching a near-pornographic film on

TV.  She casually lights a cigarette.

She watches a torrid love scene on the video.

Quail looks at her with distaste.  His expression changes

to one of resolve.

Quail is stretched out on a plush reclining couch, alongside

some strange-looking lab equipment, wearing a hospital-type

smock.  In the b.g. hovers a TECHNICIAN, adjusting some

instrumentation (discreet banks of computers, etc.) -- that

apparently relates to the lab equipment next to Quail.  The

room in a dim, soothing booth, lit by indirect lighting.

Quail looks a little concerned as he studies all the

instrumentation next to him -- as one always does at the

dentist's, looking at the drills.

The door opens abruptly, in walks a cute-looking LITTLE

OLD LADY, wearing a JOGGING SUIT.  (A RUTH GORDON-TYPE.)

She dons a white medical smock that covers her jogging

suit, then slings on heavy, lead-lined protective vest.

Lull's assistant, the TECHNICIAN in b.g., who had been

steadily working on the instrumentation, now looks over

at Lull.

Now, Lull extends a long rubber tube, a hypodermic needle

attached to it.  Quail eyes it warily.  She swabs the back

of his hand in preparation, notices his apprehension.

She injects the needle into his hand as she speaks, tapes

it down.

Quail, embarrassed, starting to go under, nods.

His voice drops off; his eyes close.  Lull studies him,

adjusts some instruments, then turns to Ernie, glancing

briefly at a typed sheet in front of her.

He takes two discs and inserts the first one into a machine.

Ernie inserts the second disk.

McClane has several file drawers open and is removing diverse

objects and placing them on his desk.

These items apparently are objects Rekall, Inc. intends

to "plant" for some client of theirs to find (perhaps

even Quail) -- as part of his fantasy.

While he is putting these things on his desk, the PHONE

BUZZES.  He answers it.

McClane come quickly in, brushing the swinging door open.

Lull and Ernie look up as he enters.  Quail lies on the

couch, breathing slowly and regularly, his eyes closed.

McClane looks queryingly at Lull, who motions him to

silence.

McClane glances sharply at Lull, then turns to Quail.

Quail's eyes open and scan the room.  They settle on

McClane.  These eyes have changed:  they have become

cold and steely.  In fact, Quail's entire personality

seems to have changed -- his face has acquired a flint-

edged hardness.  He is chillingly menacing.

McClane's eyes flash angrily at Lull.

There is a chilly silence in the room as McClane digests

this.

They stare at Quail as if he's a ticking bomb.

Now they're all panicked.

The Rekall people stare at each other in quiet horror.

His voice trails off, his eyes close.

He leaves.  The others stare after him, looking very grim.

A dazed and disoriented Douglas Quail comes out of an

inner door and walks through the lobby towards the exit

door.

An attractive RECEPTIONIST, her bare breasts visible

through a clear plastic blouse, watches him; she then

looks toward McClane who has half-opened the door to view

Quail's progress.

Quail travels down.  Uncomprehendingly, he looks out at

the city.

Quail stumbles through the fairly crowded foyer, oblivious

to anything around him.  A red-headed man may or may not be

watching him.  He makes a phone call from a pocket phone.

Scene open on Quail, in the back of the cab; he looks

around, slowly coming to his senses.

Although the driver's voice is a little mechanical (flat

in tone) he is filmed from Quail's POV, and it isn't

obvious he is anything other than an ordinary cab driver.

Camera now cuts to a shot in front of the driver.  He is

a fairly human-like robot.

The reception area and hallway leading to the elevators is

smart and clean, though not lavish.  A uniformed and armed

DOORMAN is standing by the entrance door.

Filmed from the elevator end of the area, we see the cab

pull up and Quail alight and enter the building.  He nods

to the doorman and approaches the elevators.  As he reaches

them a MAN steps out from behind the camera.  A 2ND MAN

enters from a door opposite the elevators.  Quail looks

at them and becomes quite panicky.

He takes a modern, lethal gun from his pocket.  Quail turns,

but the other man is behind him.

Quail looks toward the doorman, who is paying little

attention to the events.  As the two men edge Quail towards

the door, he call out...

But the doorman turns calmly away.

The two men lead Quail past a number of cars to their own

vehicle.

Neither man bothers answering.  They arrive at their car

and open the door for Quail.  He hesitates.

He slaps Quail hard across the face.  Quail is terrified.

He is tearful with fear.

He cringes.  His hands across his face.

They start to force him into the car physically.

Suddenly, Quail stops cringing.  the FEAR DISAPPEARS FROM

HIS FACE, and is replaced by an odd, thoughtful expression.

QUAIL TRANSFORMS INTO A HIGHLY SKILLED KILLING MACHINE.

In an instant, he karate-chops both agents across the

windpipe, and they crumple to the ground.

Quail steps back.  He stares at the two bodies, incredulous;

then stares at his own deadly HANDS.  It is as though they

belong to someone else.

Then, leaving the two agents sprawled across the alley, he

races back into the basement door of his building.

Kirsten is watching another pornographic video when Quail

bursts in.  He is still disoriented.

Kirsten gets up and turns off the movie.

She starts to mix a drink from a well-stocked cabinet.

Kirsten stops pouring her drink and look at him sharply.

Quail points down with his finger.

She sips her drink.

He walks around the apartment drawing curtains and putting

out the lights.

Kirsten is taken aback at his use of language.  He strides

into the bathroom and slams the door.  She turns on one

lamp, goes to a telephone and dials.

Quail takes a washcloth, turns the hot water up full and

soaks the cloth under the steaming water.  Using it as a

compress, he presses it against his face and his neck, to

drain off some of the tension.

He turns off the water.  Towelling his head dry, he opens

the bathroom door.

The instant he does this, a blinding white BURST OF LIGHT

comes arcing into the bathroom, and the back wall crinkles

and CHARS into a swatch of blackness.

QUAIL DIVES OUT THE DOOR, just as ANOTHER BOLT incinerates

the spot where he was standing.

THE ROOM IS IN TOTAL DARKNESS.  The only thing visible is

the pale rectangle of the balcony window, with the curtains

drawn over it.

QUAIL and his ASSAILANT cannot be seen -- but they can be

HEARD.  There is the sound of a SCUFFLE -- the meaty THUD

of a FIST CONNECTING WITH FLESH -- and a painful GRUNT as

someone's breath whooshes out.

The LIGHT COMES ON.  Quail is standing with one hand on the

lamp, and the other twisting KIRSTEN's arm up behind her

back.  A pistol lies on the floor.  Quail is totally stunned.

He releases her arm, shoving her away from him, at the same

time scooping up the pistol.

Quail is totally disoriented.

As she speaks, she walks to a picture on the wall and from

behind it pulls out a small wallet.  She flips it open to

show him her E.I.O. badge.  He looks down uncomprehendingly

at the holographic lettering "Earth Intelligence Organisation".

He sits down, holds his hand to his head.

A pause as Quail mentally gropes frantically, for what to

do next.

Quail looks at her as if seeing her for the first time.

He leaves.  Kirsten smiles secretively.  She goes to a

drawer, opens it and removes a tiny instrument that looks

like a TV channel-changer.  There is a very small light

on the instrument, which begins flashing on and off, as

the instrument  begins to make BEEPING SOUNDS.

Quail walks briskly out onto the street, controlling his

paces, trying not to look suspicious.  After a beat, he

heads for the nearest subway entrance.

Now underground, Quail tries to blend in with the other

subway people.  He heads toward the weapons check.

An OFFICIAL VEHICLE slams to a halt next to the subway

entrance and a whole load of INTENSE MEN pours out of it.

Quail now shuffles along in a lineup of people waiting

to get through the WEAPONS CHECK.  He tries to control

his nervousness.  He passes.  The guard smiles at him,

pleased to see he has remembered his gun.

All the men with guns drawn come pouring down the subway

stairs.  The SUBWAY COPS and WEAPONS CHECK are stunned to

see four large men brandishing guns push their way through

the weapons check gate without seeming to notice them.  One

gunman flashes a HOLOGRAPHIC BADGE ENCASED IN PLASTIC at

them.

The gunman reach the bottom of the stairs and race closer

to the subway train, which is just departing.  The men

halt abruptly.

The second gunman adjusts a small plug - a radio receiver -

in his ear.

Quail sits in the subway car as it barrels through the

night, not knowing exactly where he will go.  He is

confused, distraught.  A commercial comes onto the video.

Quail emerges from underground and looks around.  The

streets are almost deserted.

THE GUNMEN SIT IN THE OV.  The one with the ear plug

[suddenly talks.]

He looks down at an illuminated street map built into the

car's dashboard.

A cab comes into view.  Quail quickly hails it and jumps

in.  Cab moves off.

Quail is still pondering what to do next.  He glances out

one window, though not at anything in particular.  Suddenly,

the silence is shattered as bullets rip through the window

on the other side.  Quail ducks to the floor.

A wide shot shows that the cab is being fired on by a man

leaning from the window of an official patrol vehicle.  He

is aiming at the tires and driver, rather than directly at

Quail.

Bullets are still pouring in.

From the floor, Quail pushes the door handle and rolls

out onto the street.  The pursuing car occupants fail to

notice his exit.

Cars continue, as Quail picks himself up from the gutter

and moves off down a narrow side street.

Bullets rip into the robot driver's neck, severing the

head from the body.  The head hits the window then bounces

back onto the front seat.  It continues talking.

The taxi mounts the footpath and smashes through the display

window of a store.  Clothes models are scattered and broken.

When the noise abates, the severed head of the robot driver

is lying among the dummies.

Quail emerges from the side street and sees "End of the

Line" Hotel.  It is clean, bland, middle class.  He quickly

crosses the road and enters.

The foyer is brightly lit and empty.  Quail approaches the

DESK CLERK, who is reading a book.  "Dr. No", marked, in

flowing script, "from the classic series".

DESK CLERK looks up at him, with interest.  His hand

hovers over the money.

Quail looks at him with distaste but is only anxious to

be given the key to his room.  He says nothing.

Quail unlocks the door and enters.  No sooner does he

relock the door then THE PHONE RINGS.  He freezes, stares

at it for three rings, then picks it up.

Quail is stunned.  He says nothing, but doesn't hang up.

The man telephoning Quail is calling from a bar.  Occasion-

ally people pass him on their way to the toilets.  He is

youngish and conservatively dressed.  He speaks rapidly

and urgently.

Quail puts the phone down and rushes to the bathroom.

The earphone wearer and driver are moving in on the signal

generated by Quail's bug.  Suddenly, the small illuminated

cross on the dashboard map cuts out.

Unscientifically, he prod the screen.

Quail rushes back into the room with a wet towel,

turban-like, wrapped around his head.  He rapidly picks

up the phone.

The man on the phone looks around anxiously.

Scott Stevens hangs up the phone.  He looks around

cautiously, then walks a few steps to the mens room.

Scott Stevens walks to the row of troughs and begins to

urinate.  The room is empty.  He hears a noise and looks

around.  Two EIO men are standing there aiming lethal-looking

high-velocity weapons at him.  One of them is the red-headed

man we've already seen.

Still urinating, the frustrated Scott Stevens can only look

back over his shoulder.  Laughing, both men open fire,

riddling him with bullets.  He collapses in an undignified

heap, his head in the water at the base of the trough.

Quail, with towel around his head, glances up and down the

corridor -- spots a sign that says "FIRE EXIT".  He races

towards it.

The OV slams up in front of the hotel and a carload of

MEN tear out of it and barge into the hotel.

The startled clerk jumps to his feet as the group of

armed men enter rapidly.

Most of the armed men instantly head off up the stairs,

their weapons at the ready.  Clerk watches, astonished.

Quail is walking along briskly, still with the towel

around his head.  A few passers-by look at him curiously.

He puts his hand together and greets them Indian-style.

which reads: "PARK AVENUE / 58TH STREET".

PULL BACK to reveal "The Lucky Stub Pawnshop".  WINOS

lurk on the corner.  Park Avenue has deteriorated into

a slum.

QUAIL ENTERS FRAME, and approaching the pawnshop, stepping

over a BUM in a doorway.

Quail is just entering; an old-fashioned BELL overhead,

tripped by the door opening, announces his entrance.

At once, an immense FAT MAN emerges from the back room.

The Fat Man studies him warily for a long moment; then

he disappears through the curtain.

In a brief moment, he emerges again, carrying a small,

"makeup-sized" case, as well as two large candelabra.

The Pawnbroker puts the case on the counter.  Quail looks

at the case with curiosity.

They both look around as someone enters.

Opening up the small case.

PULL BACK to reveal they are Quail's hands.  The hotel

room he's now in is obviously a different one than the

last one we saw him in.  The room is large but run-down,

the walls are peeling, the architecture is much older,

etc.

Quail examines the contents of the case:  there are CREDIT

CARDS and also MONEY, several stacks of bills, neatly

tied -- some of it the conventional green, but most of

it red.

CLOSE ON RED MONEY

On the face of it is printed:  "MARS FEDERAL COLONY".

Quail thumbs through the money, and whistles softly to

himself as he sees how much there is.

Also in the case are:  TWO PASSPORTS;  a small CASSETTE

RECORDER;  a rolled-up LEATHER POUCH and a spray can of

some sort;  and a strange thing that looks like a silver

mask.  He examines the face mask, studies BLACK LETTERS

WRITTEN ACROSS IT (which we are not close enough to read)

and then puts it aside.  Another item now catches  his

eye:  a wristwatch.  He sees a conspicuous red button on

the side of the watch, and PRESSES IT.  INSTANTLY, TO HIS

SHOCK, QUAIL SEES A MAN MANIFEST HIMSELF HIMSELF OUT OF

THIN AIR AND STAND THERE IN THE ROOM A FEW FEET AWAY FROM

QUAIL:  he's an EXACT HOLOGRAPHIC DUPLICATE of Quail --

down to the clothes Quail is wearing now.

The image stands and watches Quail.

Quail smiles, presses the red button again.  There is a

HUMMING SOUND -- and the man FADES INTO THIN AIR -- like

a television set being turned off.

Quail looks bemused.

Now he unrolls the leather pouch and looks inside.  There

he finds what look like SURGICAL INSTRUMENTS;  a sponge,

a long piece of wire doubled over, with some attachments

and a tiny METAL HEAD on one end, and some tubes of salve.

He turns on the cassette recorder.

The VOICE he hears on the cassette TAPE is HIS OWN!

The sound of the tape continues as Quail follows

instructions - pushing the wire up into a bloody portion

of his neck, just below the ear.

Quail makes a face.

Holding the wet towel against his neck, Quail slowly

withdraws the wire.  On the end of it is a tiny, metal

bead, the Transmitter.

The man with the ear plug suddenly reacts.

The 1st man quickly check the map-grid in the dashboard.

A small bright 'x' is flashing.

Quail is anxious to get rid of the transmitter.  He looks

around and notices a rat trap near a rat hole in the

skirting board.

He carefully - avoiding springing the trap - removes the

piece of cheese and pushes the transmitter inside.  He

then throws the cheese into the rat hole.

The car is moving swiftly through the streets.

A CU of the screen shows the small 'x' moving in circles.

The car pulls up.  Another follows it.  Armed men leap

out from both.  The EARPLUG WEARER indicates they should

go down an alley at the side of a service door.  They

advance cautiously, guns at the ready.  They see no one.

The EARPLUG WEARER indicates another, even narrower, alley

leading off to one side.  Two of the men sneak cautiously

up to it, their guns at the ready.

A large rat scurries out from behind overfull garbage

bins.  Furious, they fire.  The bullets rip the bins to

shreds, scattering refuse everywhere.  The rat is killed.

They all stare in disbelief.

OPENING CLOSE on a MONITOR SCREEN slated "HAUSER/QUAIL"

followed by a serial number and some dates.  The slate

vanishes, replaced by a scene of Quail -- undergoing

some KIND OF MILITARY TRAINING.

PAN to OTHER MONITORS, all depicting Quail in other

action scenes -- on some kind of mission, driving a car,

etc.

TECHNICIANS man the monitors, scrolling through them in

fast-forward and fast reverse as if searching files.

The technicians turn as Cohaagen and his aides enter.

The red-haired E.I.O. man joins them.

The red-headed man nods.

He looks at the video screen again.  An image has flashed

onto it of an attractive Eurasian girl.

He studies the picture, which changes to show the same

girl from different angles.

Passengers are boarding a COMMERCIAL SPACECRAFT.  In

addition to the STEWARDESSES checking their tickets, there

are two PLAINCLOTHES MEN checking every passenger.  They

carry some kind of small, portable ELECTRONIC DEVICE that

they shine in the face of each passenger going through.

(It gives off a BLUE BEAM and HUMS.)

The passengers are a diverse group - businessmen, officials,

government people, etc.  There is also a large tour group

consisting of a predominately middle-aged and determinedly

jolly crowd, many of them carrying duty-free bags.  They

are being marshaled by an harassed TOUR ORGANIZER, who is

carrying aloft a hand-painted sign... "MARTIAN TOUR GROUP".

The last of the passengers board the spacecraft.  The

chief PLAINCLOTHES MAN nods to an official and the door

begins to close.

One of the PASSENGERS -- a middle-aged WOMAN - unbuckles

her seat belt and heads for the restroom, carrying her

handbag, and some clothes on a hanger.

The woman locks the door and turns to the mirror.  She

opens her bag, takes out a spray container, SPRAYS HER

FACE with it, and takes out -- the SILVER FACE MASK we

saw in Quail's emergency kit.

She holds the mask to her face.  There is a SIZZLING

NOISE, and SMOKE rises from behind the mask.

She lowers the mask.  Her face is now that of QUAIL.

He tears up a passport and drops it down a chute.

He reaches inside his dress, starts to REMOVE his "FALSIES."

CLOSE ON MASK

We can read the BLACK LETTERING written across it now:

"LASER FACIAL".

Quail exits from the lavatory and glances toward the

ebullient tour crowd.  He turns and looks in the other

direction and sees a video theater advertising "ROCKY 36"

with Sylvester Stallone III, Jnr.  He isn't too excited,

but heads towards it.  He pauses a little when an

announcement comes over the intercom.

A LITTLE BELL sounds, followed by INTERCOM STATIC.  Quail

looks up.

Quail goes to a viewport and PEERS, transfixed.  He is

seeing... at last... the object of his obsession.

The SPACELINER -- which we have deliberately not seen before

this moment for dramatic effect -- banks and turns, suddenly

bringing into view -- MARS.

AN IMMENSE ORANGE GLOBE -- so close it looks like it's

going to fall on us.  It dwarfs the spaceliner.

The liner drops toward the surface of Mars.  Below:  a

NETWORK OF INTERSECTING LINES crisscross the planet.

Quail stares, his brow furrowing as if with some deep

hidden memory he can't quite recall.

CAMERA follows the spaceliner until the ENTIRE FRAME is

filled with the RED-ORANGE sands of MARS.

An endless expanse of boulder-studded red sand, under

a red-orange sky.

The desert is cut by a ROAD, which snakes across the

rocky terrain.  Some surface TRAFFIC moves along the

road (all pressurized vehicles since the atmosphere

of Mars is almost a pure vacuum) - including the

MARSPORT BUS.

PAN WITH THE BUS - TO REVEAL

A CITY UNDER A DOME.

In the midst of the stark, trackless landscape -- it's

midday, scorching -- rises a huge weatherbeaten GEODESIC

STRUCTURE, its glass surface scarred by sandstorm damage.

Its feeling is like an old Western, when Clint Eastwood

rides into Tombstone -- the raw, forbidding vistas, with

a tough town carved out of the wilderness.

Quail is looking out at the desolate landscape.  The TOUR

ORGANISER, an amiable middle-aged man sits beside him.

It is possible he is not a married man.

The bus pulls up outside a modern tourist hotel.  The

buildings surrounding it have a much more improvised,

temporary look.  Most are pre-fabricated structures.

The streets are crowded and there is a "frontier-town"

atmosphere.  Stalls sell fruit and vegetables, also water

and air containers.

A lot of greenery is evident - this is to absorb CO2 and

emit oxygen, thus helping with the air supply under the

dome.

Some small, ragged boys look at QUAIL as he looks around

before going inside the hotel.  Suddenly, one of them throws

a small sack at him.  It hits his chest and leaves a yellow

stain.  The hotel DOORMAN chases the boys away....

From the other side of the street, a gang of URCHINS with

a harmonica start singing some kind of defiant PATRIOTIC

SONG.

The street song has swelled, adult MINERS and CITIZENS

joining the belligerent chorus.

Quail tips the doorman, enter the hotel.

Quail passes several kiosks -- a magazine stand, currency

exchange, clothing store, shoeshine stand.  A SHOESHINE

BOY looks up at Quail.

Quail walks past, enters the main lobby.  The atrium

entryway is absolutely fabulous; a complete contrast to the

dirty, Casbah-like streets.  AFFLUENT-LOOKING PEOPLE in

spotless linen fill the lobby.

Quail stops to examine a large ROTATING DISPLAY sitting on

a table in the middle of the lobby.  It is a stand-up model

of a SPHINX.  Across the top is written "THE FIRST WONDER

OF MARS".  A recorded VOICE repeats a canned speech --

CLOSE - SHOESHINE BOY

He stares at Quail.

BACK TO SCENE

Quail approaches the Registration Desk.

Quail is startled to be recognized -- particularly by

this name.  He tries to stay casual.

The Clerk taps a few keys on a computer.

The Clerk turns to the safe, retrieves an envelope. He

hands it -- and an ELECTRONIC ROOM KEY -- to Quail.

Far in the distance, a dusty red structure squats amid

barren dunes.  We see vehicles, scaffolding, a fortified

perimeter.

Quail stands at the window, looking through binoculars.

He lowers them irritably, tosses them on the bed.

Quail tugs the envelope from his pocket, tears it open.

Inside is a single slip of paper, on which is written

in longhand:

It is now sunset on Mars and it's literally of inearthly

beauty.  The sun is bold and blood red;  the foggy, drip-

ping glass of the Dome tints the light into strange colors.

Quail emerges from the hotel, properly attired now in a

white tropical suit, and starts for the taxi stand.

Behind him, also emerging from the hotel, is the Shoeshine

Boy.  He keeps out of sight -- but is definitely tailing

Quail.

As Quail nears the first solar-powered taxi in line, he is

approached by an amiable-looking CALYPSO GUY wearing a West

Indian shirt and bright straw hat.

Quail hesitates, unsure of the protocol.

TWO CABBIES exchange curses as Quail, wary, follows the

Calypso Guy around a corner, climbs into the small solar

car.

An AIR LOCK whooshes open underneath a Checker Cab sign.

Bennie and Quail emerge in the solar-powered car -- set

off into the desert.

The taxi traverses the same type desert that Quail crossed

a few hours ago.  Only now is looks completely different.

The late light tints everything in pastel shades, Quail is

awed by the grandeur of the Lawrence-of-Arabia-like setting.

Quail and Bennie's taxi approaches a brightly-lit oasis in

the middle of the desert.  There's a cafe, repair facilities

and a huge parking lot -- all under a garish neon sign:

"LAST CHANCE AIR STATION AND ASLOON - EAT HERE AND GET GAS".

Quail and Bennie's taxi pulls in and parks.  In the lot is

a collection of strange and colorful vehicles:  huge ore

trucks that pull eight trailers, mountain prospecting jeeps,

Grapes-of-Wrath jalopies.  Quail and Bennie disembark, wear-

ing breathing masks, and enter the main building.

The joint is a combination saloon/cathouse/casino.  There

are slot machines, HOOKERS, MINERS and HOMESTEADERS; it is

like a Nevada brothel -- packed with wild and woolly indi-

vidualists, the equivalent of Old West trappers, prospectors

and cowboys -- but with a space-age look.

Quail and Bennie elbow their way to the bar.  Fragments of

conversation are overheard.

Bennie and Quail pass another group.

Quail attracts the attention of the BARTENDER.

His nod indicates an area behind Quail.  He turns to see

an attractive waitress placing drinks on tables.  She

doesn't notice Quail.  He walks toward her through the

crowd.  Bennie watches, then tactfully slips away.

MELINA turns to return to the bar and runs straight into

Quail.  She stops, obviously astonished to see him.

Almost in tears, she pushes her way through the crowd to a

billiard room, which is separated from the main bar by

swinging doors.

There are no occupants and it is almost in darkness.  Quail,

bewildered, follows her.  Inside the billiard room he turns

on the lights which illuminates the area of the table.

(NOTE:  As Quail and Melina speak, the activity in the

Melina is still fighting back tears.  Quail stops in front

of her, unsure about what to do.  He has no recollection

of how well he might have known this woman.

Suddenly, she slaps him hard across the face.

He rubs his painful cheek.

Quail is speechless.

He looks relieved (but tries to cover).

Melina bursts into tears.  Quail rather tentatively puts

his arms around her.  She welcomes this at first, but then

pushes him away.

All Melina's suspicions come rushing back.

Melina backs off.  Quail grows more desperate.

Melina's expression grows dead hard.

He takes a step toward her, nearly frantic.

Quail gives up; goes through the doors and leaves.  Melina

slumps her shoulder against the table and cries.

Quail enters from the cafe.  Bennie is kneeling beside his

taxi, repairing a tire.  He look up, sees Quail approach.

On his right hand, Bennie has a mechanical device

capable of spinning 360 degrees.  He uses it to twirl

a lug nut tight on his tire.  As Quail approaches,

Bennie removes the TOOL ATTACHMENT from his HAND,

tosses it into a kit beside the taxi.

He opens the door for Quail, beams.

Quail still broods, Bennie tries to cheer him up.

Bennie bright tone isn't improving Quail's mood.

The solar car is moving through the crowd, when suddenly

SIRENS approach on a cross street.  Bennie brakes and stops.

He and Quail watch as POLICE MOTORCYCLES clear a path for a

huge, GAS-POWERED LIMO.  MINERS on the sidewalks shout

CURSES, OBSCENITIES --

Quail keeps his face in shadow and watches Cohaagen with

curiosity as he passes.  Cohaagen is lit up briefly by a

street lamp.  His face makes an impression on Quail, who

perhaps faintly remembers him in the past.

Quail enters, turns on the lights, locks the door.  He

checks all the rooms.  Then he crosses to the dresser,

studies himself in the mirror.  He looks haggard.

Quail opens a drawer, takes out his "emergency case," sets

it on top and opens it.  He removes a shoulder holster and

pistol, sets them aside.  He takes out a tape recorder.

He sets the recorder down gingerly, as if somewhere in

there were contained the answers to all his questions.

He's just about to activate it, when he hears a KNOCK at

the door.

Quail freezes.  Another KNOCK.

Quail ditches the recorder and the "emergency case" into

the drawer -- everything except the PISTOL.

Quail approaches the door very cautiously (from the side --

out of the line of fire).

Quail opens it carefully, his gun at the ready, but out

of view of the person at the door.

A dignified-looking GENTLEMAN stands there, calm and

pleasant, wearing an Earth-style business suit.

He can't see the gun, but somehow knows.

Quail does keep his gun trained on the man.  The man enters,

holding in his outstretched hand -- a business card.

Quail frisks him, then takes the card, glances at it.

Long pause.

The door starts to open.  Quail pivots and points his

gun at the opening door.

MELINA walks in, carrying a CLIPBOARD.  She looks at Quail

with professional detachment.

Quail is staggered.

CLOSE - QUAIL

Even more suspicious.

TWO SHOT - QUAIL AND EDGEMAR

CLOSE - QUAIL

Trembling, holding the gun point blank in Edgemar's face.

CLOSE - EDGEMAR

Showing no fear of tension whatever.

CLOSE - QUAIL

Straining desperately to find the true "reality."

EXTREME CLOSEUP - TRIGGER OF GUN

Quail's finger on it.

TWO SHOT - QUAIL AND EDGEMAR

Quail PULLS THE TRIGGER!

REVERSE ANGLE - BACK OF EDGEMAR'S HEAD

We SEE the results of the gunshot from this angle only,

and so BRIEFLY as to produce an almost SUBLIMINAL effect:

the back of Edgemar's head blows off --

He collapses to the floor.

Melina LEAPS at Edgemar's falling form and CLAMPS HER HANDS

over Edgemar's RIGHT HAND!

Quail spins toward the door just as it BURSTS OPEN.  A man

enters, firing, but Quail has fallen to the floor and

returns the fire.  He staggers back out into the corridor

and slams against the wall, dead.

Melina is still crouched by Edgemar's body, holding his

HAND for some reason.  Her CLIPBOARD dangles by her side.

Squeezing Edgemar's hand shut with one of hers, she holds

up her other wrist -- to show that the CLIPBOARD IS BOUND

TO HER WRIST BY A CHAIN!

Quail (Hauser) SHOOTS OFF the chain.

Quail takes the CLIPBOARD from Melina and eases himself to

the side of the doorway.

Quail reaches around the corner and SAILS THE CLIPBOARD into

the hallway.  Melina lets go of Edgemar's hand --

There is a TREMENDOUS EXPLOSION in the hallway,

Quail comes out in crouch, ready to shoot.  On the floor

lies a DEAD MAN and the body of the Shoeshine Boy, sprawled

grotesquely.  The hallway is filled with smoke.  The floor

covered with debris.  Plaster falling from the ceiling.

All over the hotel, ALARMS begin BLARING.

Quail strides back in, icy-furious.  He seizes Melina by

the wrist and drags her after him into the corridor.

Two more E.I.O. men appear but Quail shoots them while

dragging Melina down the hall in the opposite direction.

He pushes open the door leading to the staircase.

Quail and Melina run down the stairs.  On the next landing

is a service elevator, from which a waiter is emerging

carefully carrying a tray with hors d'oeuvres and champagne.

Quail bundles the waiter unceremoniously back inside the

elevator.

Quail presses the basement button.  As he talks to Melina

he opens the champagne and pours two glasses.  The waiter

is too frightened to protest.

The elevator has reached the basement.  They rush out.

Quail and Melina run from a basement door into an alley.

A solar car whips out in front of them.  Quail and Melina

leap aboard.

Bennie weaves as fast as he can in and out of the traffic,

Quail and Melina ducking out of view in the passenger seat.

A large gas-powered official-looking car is pushing its way

through the crowds and traffic behind them.

Quail is aiming his gun at the following car.

Bennie reaches down, grasps a KNOB.  He yanks it, like

someone starting an outboard motor -- and an ear-splitting

LOUD ENGINE roars to life.

Bennie opens the throttle and the solar car HURTLES DOWN

THE STREET.  Quail and Melina are thrown back in the seat.

GUNFIRE blazes all around the car.  Quail FIRES back at

the pursuing car.

BULLETS from the cruiser rip through the car.

Bennie's car hurtles through the crowds with the official

car gaining on it.  Bennie takes a corner sharply near a

huge water selling stand.  The official car brakes to make

the same turn, but clips the side of the water stand.  The

water container tips and empties water through the open

roof (i.e. through which one of the Agents has been firing)

so that the car completely fills.  The driver continues the

chase, but the occupants are now submerged.  They frantic-

ally open the windows while continuing to follow Bennie's

car.

The solar car rushes down what appears to be a dead-end

street, with the official vehicle (water pouring out of

the windows) in pursuit.

At the end of the street, however, Bennie doesn't stop but

continues going into a large opening.  It is an abandoned

mine.  The bigger car follows him, but won't fit.  The

roof is smashed to pieces as the vehicle is wedged into

the narrow opening.

The second official car pulls up behind.  A chauffeur jumps

out and opens the rear door.  Cohaagen steps out.  He sur-

veys the scene.  The four men in the wrecked car clamber

their way backwards out of the wreckage.  They are covered

in blood and their clothes are in shreds.

Cohaagen turns to an associate, EMILE, a youngish,

well-dressed executive type.

The solar car proceeds along the tunnel.  It enters an area

full of smoke.  Dozens of men are sitting around smoking

cigarettes, pipes and cigars.  Quail looks at them in

amazement.

They have now climbed out of the car.  Quail looks

searchingly at Melina and Bennie.

He unzips his jacket to reveal a T-shirt with "MARTIAN

LIBERATION FRONT" (and an appropriate symbol) emblazoned

on it.

They walk as they talk - into a room off the main tunnel.

It is adorned with "FREE MARS" and "MARTIAN LIBERATION

FRONT" posters.  A group of people are printing T-shirts

and leaflets.  They exchange greetings with Melina and

Bennie.

Her gesture suggests their liaison.

He slumps into a chair with frustration.

Bennie, Quail and Melina are walking in a crowded area

of town.  Water sellers and food stalls are everywhere.

An ARMORED LOUDSPEAKER VEHICLE appears, broadcasting to

the crowd.  It is also swinging a powerful searchlight

along the footpaths and streets.

The searchlight approaches Bennie, Quail and Melina.  Bennie

ducks into a doorway, while Quail grabs Melina and kisses

her passionately.  The light sees only the back of his head.

She responds warmly to his kiss.

They move into the crowd.  The message on the

loudspeaker is repeated.

The interior of the room is an amazing contrast to its

ghetto exterior.  The decor is a baroque combination of

Middle Eastern opulence and 21st century flash.  It looks

like something out of "The Arabian Nights".

A man enters from another room.  Although the man's features

are East Indian, he is very much a Peter Lorre type;  he

wears a small fez cap and a white linen robe with a cowl

draped around the back of his neck.

As Kuato speaks, Quail, unimpressed, talks, sotto voce,

to Melina.

From the street the sound of loudspeakers giving information

about Quail and Co. can be heard.  Searchlight beams

occasionally sweep past the windows.

A Bysantine salon filled with enormous Oriental pillows.

(NOTE:  In the scenes inside Kuato's sanctum, the loudspeaker

Kuato takes a seat on the pillows, invites the others to

join him.  Quail hesitates.

THREE RESPONSES COME TOGETHER.

He jerks his thumb toward Quail.

Everyone calms down.

Kuato smiles.  He extinguishes all the lights save one

small blue one, which illuminates the room eerily, like

a seance.

He closes his eyes and concentrates.

Kauto turns around and sits down with back toward Quail.

He reaches up and lowers his cowl, REVEALING:

A TINY LITTLE HEAD GROWING OUT OF THE BACK OF HIS NECK!

The head's eyes are closed in sleep.  It is utterly hairless

and looks like one of those dolls made from dried apples; a

shriveled, ancient-looking yellow little ball.

The LITTLE FACE TWITCHED, YAWNS and OPENS ITS EYES, BLINKS.

It looks at Melina, then at Quail.

It opens its toothless little mouth and SPEAKS.

ZOOM IN ON QUAIL'S EYES.

CONTINUE ZOOM UNTIL ENTIRE FRAME is filled by QUAIL'S EYE.

BLACKNESS BROKEN BY PULSES OF WHITE LIGHT

The alternations between dark (ACTION) and white (LIGHT)

are RHYTHMICAL so as to create a hypnotic, dream-like

feeling.

Fades to reveal a dramatic CLOSE UP of the SPHINX.  We see

its face, shoulders and behind it the red Martian sky --

to reveal the Sphinx is a PROJECTION on a screen in a

windowless briefing room.  Quail is seated across from

Cohaagen and other SENIOR E.I.O. OFFICERS.  On the walls

are numerous satellite photos, recon maps and excavation

drawings -- all relating to the Sphinx.

Scaffolding and excavation works cover a wall of the Sphinx;

the Sphinx's huge CARVED FACE visible in the background.

Quail and several other E.I.O. agents stand poised, wearing

breathing masks and protective gear, as a powerful

excavation device prizes back a huge stone, revealing

an ENTRANCE TO SOME KIND OF HIDDEN CHAMBER.

The other agents are fearful, don't want to proceed.  Quail

ignores them, enters the chamber --

As he enters.  We read awe, shock and fascination on his

features.  He approaches something we can't see.  His

hand reaches out.

Suddenly, a bolt of incredible powerful energy flashes out,

striking Quail like a bolt of lightning.

WHITE LIGHT.

Quail and Melina are dancing.  The faceted mirror ball on

the ceiling become the --

WHITE LIGHT.

Melina watches from the bed as Quail dresses.  She rises,

with only the sheet around her, tries desperately to make

Quail stay.  Plainly he wants to, but he can't.  They kiss

lingeringly;  then Quail, as if "called to duty," exits.

WHITE LIGHT.

Quail alone, hands bound, in a holding chamber.  Suddenly,

the door opens and THREE BEEFY E.I.O. AGENTS enter.  They

grab Quail to haul him out.  Quail battles them with

amazing skill and resourcefulness.  With his bound hands

he SLUGS ONE MAN, hurling him into a wall;  he RABBIT-

PUNCHES a second man with a two-handed blow and KNOCKS

HIM UNCONSCIOUS.  The third man sneaks around behind

Quail and DROPS HIM WITH A BLACKJACK to the back of the

head.

WHITE LIGHT.

Quail on his back, all four limbs pinned by some futuristic

version of "the rack," his head held imobile by a FEARSOME

DEVICE similar to the one we glimpsed on Earth, in the van

the two agents tried to shove him into.

Several DOCTORS stand over him.  INTO FRAME moves...

Cohaagen!

Cohaagen orders the doctors to attach electrodes to PROBES

already inserted into Quail's brain.  As they turn up the

power, Quail's face contorts in a grimace of agony --

WHITE LIGHT.

The same scene we saw during the film's OPENING SEQUENCE.

A man wearing a LIGHT-WEIGHT THERMAL SUIT races through a

LABYRINTH OF TUNNELS.  The GROUND TREMBLES beneath him, as

if in an earthquake.  EXPLOSIONS rumble deep in the ground

below him.  Suddenly we realize -- the man is Quail

INSERT - CLOSE - QUAIL

He throws a backward glance over his shoulder, fearfully,

as he runs.  Suddenly a BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT floods in

from ahead of him;  he puts up his hands to protect his

eyes -- and sees his hands are SPLATTERED WITH BLOOD!

Quail runs even faster -- ahead the BRILLIANT LIGHT seems

to promise safety.  He battles toward it.  SOUNDS OF

EXPLOSIONS increase, building urgency.  Up ahead, emerging

from the light, HANDS REACH OUT TO HELP QUAIL.  He seems

almost to safety.  But just as he REACHES THE HANDS --

TWO GUNSHOTS RING OUT!

Quail awakens with a jolt.  White as a sheet... sweating

like he's just run ten miles.  Then:  a transformation

seems to come over him.  He LOOKS -- and SEES:

KUATO slumped across the cushions -- MELINA beside Kuato --

BENNIE standing holding a smoking GUN trained on Kuato.

Quail stares at her, as if an entire bank of lost memories

were suddenly clicking back into place --

Quail gives Bennie that same eerie look, then turns to

Kuato, who is sprawled motionless across the pillows, a

curl of smoke rising from two entry wounds in his spine.

Quail lunges across the pillows to Kuato's unbreathing

form.  Quail shakes the ancient mystic, trying to find a

last flicker of life.

Kuato's body is dead white.  Quail releases his grip;

he about to give up when --

A MUFFLED CHOCKED SOUND comes from behind Kuato's neck.

It's the Oracle Head!  Quail instantly rolls Kuato's body

over.  The Head is still alive!

Quail bends closer, kneeling.

The Oracle Head lets out a LONG SIGH and goes limp, a

small trickle of blood oozing from the corner of its

mouth.

Quail ignores him, still kneeling -- deep in thought --

over the Oracle Head.

Quail reaches out and closes the Oracle Head's tiny

eyelids.  Melina and Bennie exchange a glance.  Then:

QUAIL

Stands.  For a moment his back is to Melina and Bennie.

Then he turns.

He has become a different man.  His eyes gleam.  He is

forceful, purposeful, contained.  Once again the ace E.I.O.

agent.  Melina senses immediately that this is the man she

knew before

He turns to Bennie

He strides off.  The others follow, still full of questions.

They are now heading down the stairs toward the street.

Quail, Melina and Bennie make their way through the crowds

to Bennie's depot.  The streets are even busier then before -

people are now beginning to evacuate the city.  Everyone is

carrying their possessions - bundles, suitcases, pets, etc.,

etc.  The loudspeaker vans are still touring and broad-

casting the same message.

Bennie indicates a building on their left.

Bennie and Melina follow Quail as he walks up and down the

rows of vehicles in the vast building.  There are bull-

dozers and ore haulers as well as solar taxis.

Quail ignores him as he continues to mumble to himself.

He rapidly but carefully inspects each vehicle as they

pass.  Camera tracks rapidly with them.

He stops in front of a large, odd-shaped vehicle with a

large scoop or propeller on the front.

He begins to climb in;  the others follow.

Bennie starts the engine.

Melina shakes her head.  The vehicle moves off.

GUARDS are carefully checking every vehicle leaving the

city, though this has to be done fairly rapidly because

of the inhabitants leaving for the Space Ports.

The vehicle with Bennie, Quail and Melina arrives.

Bennie is nervous.  Melina and Quail are in the back, but

cannot be seen.  Guards are checking all vehicles exiting,

looking for Quail and Melina.

The Guards laugh and signal him on.

Once through the second door of the air lock (i.e. to the

area outside the city), Quail and Melina emerge and sit

up on the rear seats.

In a wide shot, the vehicle is traversing the desert.  The

domed city is some distance in the background.  Voices are

heard in false perspective.  Emphasis is on the dry and

hostile natural landscape of Mars.

The vehicle is now approaching the Sphinx.  Both it and

the pyramids can be seen some distance away.

Voice are heard in CU perspective.

Melina is amazed.

The vehicle is even closer to the Sphinx.

Quail looks out the back window, his attention attracted

by two patrol vehicles.  They are some distance away, but

approaching steadily.

A wide shot shows a total of four patrol vehicles approach-

ing the vehicle with Quail, Melina and Bennie.  Suddenly,

it stops moving.

The vehicle had just stopped.

He turns to see Bennie is covering him and Melina with a

pistol.

At that instant, Melina lunges, PUNCHES A RED EMERGENCY

BUTTON.  The VENT beside Bennie's hand BLOWS OPEN, [causing]

a powerful suction caused by Mars's vacuum atmosphere.

Bennie's gun hand is PLANTED AGAINST THE VENT [OPENING.]

Simultaneously, the air in the vehicle starts rushing out!

All three parties begin choking.  As Bennie's mechanical

hand claws for the lever that seals the vent, Quail has

a moment to jump him.  He pounds Bennie's gun hand, the

PISTOL IS SUCKED, CLATTERING, OUT THE VENT!

Quail delivers a roundhouse punch to Bennie, knocking him

clear across the bus.

Melina seals the vent, REPRESSURIZES THE CABIN.

Bennie gets up off the floor, shaking off Quail's punch--

The E.I.O. vehicle are a half mile off -- and closing in.

Quail glances at the vehicles, turns to Bennie -- ready

to jump him.  But stops short at what he sees Bennie doing.

Bennie is clipping on his MECHANICAL ARM.  It sprouts

several rows of vicious-looking STEEL BLADES --

Bennie presses another button and the BLADES START SPINNING.

Bennie's mechanical arm is in effect now a BUZZ SAW!

The fight begins.  Bennie attacks Quail with his buzz-saw

arm;  Quail dodges.  Bennie's arm shreds various articles

in the cabin -- and keeps Melina at bay with well-timed

swipes.  Finally Bennie gets in a roundhouse punch to

Quail's jaw with his real hand.  Quail sprawls, dazed.

Now Bennie goes for the kill.  But Melina leaps onto him.

Bennie grabs her by the hair and moves his SPINNING HAND

in for the quick kill.  Melina clutches the terrifying

appendage with both hands, desperately keeping it at bay.

But her strength is no match for Bennie; the whirring

blades are just about to bite into Melina's neck when --

Quail comes back, lands a ferocious rabbit punch to

Bennie's spine.  Quail lunges at him, grabs the blade

weapon;  he and Bennie crash into the cabin wall and --

The BLADE RIPS CLEAR THROUGH THE MOLE'S WALL!  Alarms

sound as a GAPING HOLE IS BLOWN IN THE SIDE OF THE

CABIN!  ALL THE AIR IS SUCKED OUT BY MARS'S EXTERNAL

VACUUM!

Now no one can breathe.  They all claw for their masks,

[still] in place.  Bennie is first;  he recovers, lunges

with his SPINNING ARM for Quail.  Quail barely dodges,

grabs the arm, muscles it back toward Bennie --

The SPINNING BLADES SEVER BENNIE'S OWN OXYGEN LINE!  Gasp-

ing, he falters.  Quail aims a titanic blow, PUNCHES

BENNIE out through the hole in the mole's wall!

Quail and Melina, masks on, stare out as Bennie claws

desperately at his severed air line.  The Martian vacuum

pulls the oxygen from Bennie's lungs, he chokes, staggers --

Bennie is beside the vehicle.  He implodes like a balloon

with all its air gone.

Melina hides her face in horror.  At that instant --

Bullets dig into the sand all around the vehicle.  The

patrol cars are only a few hundred yards away!  Loud-

speakers call for Quail's surrender.

Quail lunges for the vehicle controls.  Presses a button

marked "Dive".  The vehicle tilts.

The vehicle burrows powerfully into the sand.  As the

patrol cars close in and rake the desert with gunfire,

the vehicle vanishes from sight.  In the distance, the

Sphinx looms ominously.

A driver in one of the patrol vehicles (filmed from outside

the windscreen) is speaking into a microphone.  He can't

be heard but can only be radioing a report.

The little mining vehicle moves powerfully, propelled by

its BORER NOSE.

Quail mans the controls while Melina struggles to shore up

the gaping hole in the side, into which SAND is POURING

as the mole moves forward.  Quail looks at a compass in

the control panel.  He makes a correction.

Sand pours over him from bullet holes resulting from the

encounter with patrol cars.

CU speedometer:  22 MPH.  Every other gauge is overheating,

flashing WARNING LIGHTS --

Cohaagen and a number of his associates, plus scientists

and heavily arms troops are present.

On some of the video screens a number of space shuttles

can be seen, ready for departure to Earth.

The Mole bores through a sand wall, emerges into a cramped

horizontal tunnel.  Quail and Melina leap out.  The poor

Mole is smoking like an overheated drill bit.  Its nose

is worn to a nub.

There's a lighted area at the end of the tunnel.  Quail

and Melina hurry toward it, moving silently, close to

the wall.

They draw up an abyss -- where their tunnel intersects the

MAIN DOWNSHAFT.  Melina gasps at the colossal scale of the

drilling, hundreds of yards across, deeper than the eye

can see, and crisscrossed by catwalks, buttresses and

super-sophisticated technology.

Quail and Melina are forty feet below the upper end of

the main downshaft.  They can look up the shaft and

see the first interior level of the Sphinx itself.

He's right at home -- and full of confidence.

Quail climbs onto the ladder, which links various top

levels.

He starts to climb.  Melina follows him.  They are tiny

figures.  The space around them plummets down to infinity.

A patrol of NINE HEAVILY-ARMED GUARDS appear from a corridor

in Level One -- directly above where Quail and Melina are

climbing.

Quail and Melina's heads inch into view at floor level.

They take one peek at these formidable warriors and duck

back swiftly out of sight.

Seven of the Guards move off, two remain in position.

We HEAR the FOOTSTEPS of the seven guards recede.

The two remaining guards realize their isolation; they

glance tensely to one another.

The First Guard points to the edge  of the main shaft --

right where Quail and Melina are hiding.  The Guards

cock their weapons, start cautiously forward.  Just as

they're about to peer over the brink, guns at the

ready:

The guards spin around, weapons poised.  Standing in the

shadows, near the corridor, is Quail!  (Still with no

gun)

Both guards walk quickly toward Quail, covering him with

their weapons.

Quail has his arms raised high.  Just as the Guards reach

him, he fizzes electronically, emitting a humming sound,

then disappears.

Before either Guard can react, the real Quail appears --

one foot behind them.  With two LIGHTNING BLOWS, he

dispatches the Guards.  (Apparently Quail has climbed out

of the shaft while the Guards were distracted.)

Quail snatches both Guards' weapons, grenades and ammo

belts.  Melina climbs out of the shaft.  Quail tosses her

one of the Guard's guns.

ALARMS go off everywhere.  Quail -- carrying a gun and all

the grenades and ammo belts -- and Melina (just carrying a

gun) bolt down a corridor past a sign: "LEVEL ONE".

Cohaagen and his Aides hear the ALARMS, see Quail and

Melina on MONITORS as they race down the corridor on

Level One.

He exhibits begrudging admiration for Quail.

A wall sign behind Cohaagen reads:  "LEVEL THIRTEEN".

A button is pressed and huge doors slide across in front

of the formidable doors already closing the Control Room

off from the outside corridors.

Quail and Melina are still racing through the corridors.

He passes her a fresh ammo belt.

Melina expertly ejects her spent clip (that Guards fired

at Quail), slams in a fresh clip and cocks the gun.

Quail has a half-second to react, impressed, then --

FOUR GUARDS pound into view at the end of the corridor.

Melina opens fire, nails two.  Quail heaves a grenade; as

it EXPLODES, he and Melina bolt down a side corridor --

ALARMS continue as Quail and Melina dash down the side

passageway.  MORE GUARDS cut them off;  Melina's machine

gun sends them scattering --

Quail pauses at a corner.  He looks around quickly and sees

that an elevator is arriving.  He motions Melina back.  The

doors of the elevator begin to open.  Very quickly, Quail

bobs his head and arm around the corner.  He calls out,

loudly...

He hurls something toward the armed men in the elevator.

Instinctively one of them reaches for the thrown object.

It is an explosive device of some sort.  Quail and Melina

press themselves against the wall just around a corner from

the elevator.  There is a tremendous explosion.

Quail, followed by Melina, rounds a corner.  The elevator

is in ruins; bodies are scattered everywhere.

She points toward the upper levels.

Melina and Quail can be seen on the security monitor from

a high angle.  Quail looks up, spots the monitor, and

shoots is to pieces.  The image on the screen goes black.

Quail spots a large WINDOWED AIR LOCK at the end of the

corridor.  He and Melina race to it.  Quail starts to open

the inner door of the air lock.

He is pulling Melina through the inner air lock door just

as --

GUARDS stampede around the corner of the corridor toward

them.

Quail is out of sight, but they see Melina poised near the

window.  She waves and smiles to them, hiding her gun behind

her body.  They slow down and approach less cautiously,

beguiled by her manner and attractiveness.  As they get

close, she suddenly lifts her gun and opens fire, mowing

them down.

Quail and Melina climb through the outer air lock door.

They are at the Sphinx's shoulder, with a dizzying drop

beneath them.  Melina looks down.  She's sorry she did:

the fall is at least 200 feet.  (Both are wearing their

breathing apparatus.)

Quail and Melina start to climb.  Up the Sphinx's shoulder,

along its Egyptian-like headdress --

Cohaagen's chief aide, Emile, addresses him quietly.

Quail and Melina traverse across the cheekbones, haul

themselves up at the base of the red translucent eyes --

The video monitors show the space shuttles.  An operator,

with earphones, turns to Cohaagen.

Quail jams THREE GRENADES against the glass of the eyes,

pulls Melina back behind the stone cheeks --

A MUFFLED EXPLOSION (due to the thin Martian atmosphere)

detonates overhead.  THE SPHINX'S RIGHT EYE BLOWS IN a

storm of shards and shrapnell.

Instantly, the room turns into a hurricane as the Martian

vacuum sucks out all air!  Everyone panics, grabbing their

An aide dives for an EMERGENCY SWITCH.  But now --

Quail and Melina, wearing breather masks, bursts in onto

an overhead catwalk.  They OPEN FIRE on the Guards, who are

choking, struggling with their masks.

An EMERGENCY PRESSURE SEAL powers into place, sealing the

breach in the eye.  REPRESSURIZATION comes up, the internal

atmosphere stabilizes --

None of the men inside the control room still moves.  The

victors tug off their masks, spring down to the main level.

Melina hurries to the main control panel.

Melina looks towards the video monitors showing half a

dozen huge space shuttles lined up for departure.

Quail tentatively approaches the imposingly complex

machinery.

He hesitates.

Transfixed, mesmerized, Quail moves closer to the control

panel.

He approaches even closer.  He begins to raise his arm

towards a blank area a little above his head.

Quail looks around him, half-convinced.

Quail hesitates.  He looks from Melina to Cohaagen.

Quail continues to look at him, thoughtfully.

He turns back to the machine and slowly raises his arm

again.  His fingers reach towards the blank section on

the panel.  Slowly, through the panel, a luminous hand

reaches toward Quail's fingers.  Gently, the fingers of

the two hands touch.

The entire control room begins to rumble and shudder.  As

Quail reaches for Melina, Cohaagen suddenly dives on him.

They grapple amid the shuddering Sphinx and can be seen

only intermittently as debris crashes around them.

The fight ends as Cohaagen is hurled backwards and

disappears when a section of floor collapses underneath him.

A reprise of the sequence that opened the movie.

Quail RUNS THROUGH A LABYRINTH OF TUNNELS.  THE GROUND

HEAVES BENEATH HIM ... HUGE STONE BLOCKS CRASH DONW ON

ALL SIDES!  We hear an EXPLOSION and ANOTHER and ANOTHER,

each one SOUNDING CLOSER than the last --

Quail clamps him breathing mask on as he runs.  Is this

his own death?  Where is Melina?

The tunnel walls are just like the ones in Quail's

original nightmare -- bright reddish-orange, clay and

quartz.

Quail throws a backward glance fearfully over his shoulder.

The EXPLOSIONS are closer.  Suddenly --

Up ahead appears a BRILLIANT WHITE LIGHT.  Quail sees it,

but it only terrifies him more.  Is it death he's running

to?  He hurries on with all his strength, but --

Just as he nears the white light, HE FALLS.  On his knees,

too weak to move.  He struggles --

HANDS ARE REACHING OUT TO HIM, from out of the brilliant

light.  Quail stretches for them, just as --

A FINAL EXPLOSION blows him forward -- straight into the

WHITE LIGHT!  The HANDS SEIZE HIM, pull him upward to --

The hands belong to breather-masked MINERS, dismounting

rapidly from an overloaded transport vehicle which was

taking them to the Space Port.  Quail looks from them to

Melina, who is walking towards the group.

QUAIL'S P.O.V. - MINERS' MASKED FACES

The miners' desert garb, shield goggles and breathers add

to the surreal nightmare quality of Quail's tortured

perspective --

BACK TO QUAIL

In terror, lost, disoriented totally.

A MINER'S WIFE watches them.  She is crying.

Quail looks up at the sky.  Melina follows his glance.

So do the others.

Slowly, but perceptibly, the color is changing from yellow

to blue.

All the miners are puzzled, apprehensive.  Quail reaches

toward the one who spoke to him before and pulls off his

breathing apparatus.  At first the man is shocked, then

realizes he can breathe without it.  Quail takes off

his own, then Melina's

All the miners watch in amazement.  They all remove their

breathing masks.

Melina embraces him.

Melina looks oddly at him, smiling, mysterious.

As the sky becomes more and more blue, more of the Miners

descend from the bus.  Softly at first, then with more and

more confidence, they begin singing the Martian National

Anthem.

The music swells.  Quail puts his arm around Melina.  They

both join in the chorus.

It reaches an impassioned crescendo as the FRAME FREEZES

and the END CREDITS ROLL UP the screen.

