RED LIGHTCYCLE turns hard 90 degrees, Rush maneuvers to

counter.

Co-workers lean over the cubicle walls from all sides:

Rush baits the RED LIGHTCYCLE. It anticipates his every

move, goading him, tailing him.

Search Engine flies overhead - Krod locks on Tron.

RX23's Pulse Rider pulls the move, surges up beside red

lightcycle.

Tron pulls away, baiting his opponent.

RUSH hits keys, jockeys mouse.      Feeling good.     Shifts drive

status to: "TURBOJECT".

RX23's Pulse Rider SCREAMS, gaining on Tron.         Neck-and-neck.

But Tron suddenly brakes, quitting the chase.

RX23 is puzzled.    Looks forward.       Eyes spring wide.

Rush's screen:   His Pulse Rider speeds straight for the rocks.

Pulse Rider smashes into rocks, RX23 pulverizes to neon bits.

Electro SHOCKWAVE sears across game grid. Search Engine

freezes overhead, glitches and CRASHES like a blimp.

All goes white - snow crash.

Miles stares at his blank screen.     Blinking.    Every screen

in the lab is blank.

All eyes land on Rush.

PRESS CREWS camp a block away.

X-Net PR TEAM preps a media extravaganza. Shirt logo: "X-

NET = TOTAL DATA SECURITY" Banners, video projections, music.

X-NET PUBLIC RELATIONS VP leads entourage on a preview.

Staff defers to: GORDON SINCLAIR (45), boyish, ruthless,

brilliant CEO of Encom Corporation.

He catches something on a video screen, snaps his fingers.

Crew murmurs on headsets.    Promo video replays:

X-Net executives chill.

Eyes land on withering LEGAL VP.

Rush appears from a building.       Signals Sinclair aside.

SINCLAIR goes pale.

Sprawling, big bucks, basketball hoop.

Sinclair enters, alone. Closes door. Uses a retinal scan

ID to access his computer. Secure connection opens. As he

speaks, text instantly appears:

Flashing circuitry, machine code bit-storm.     We follow

Sinclair's text message data stream

Min-blowing cyberspace fly-over.

DATA BEAM penetrates a towering shaft, reaching deep inside

the MASSIVELY FORTIFIED X-NET CENTRAL SERVER.

LONE FIGURE stands clothed in flashy cyber-armor:     Fluid

photons, oozing high-rez circuitry.

It's PLEXOR, cyber-twin of real-world Sinclair.

He crosses into an round inner sanctum.    DATA STREAM radiates

from above.

PLEXOR stands in the center, pulls his DISK off his back,

raises it above his head.

Data stream converges onto disk, becomes a tight RUBY RED

COMMUNICATION BEAM.

Plexor's eyes decode transmission.    Text races across his

eyes: IDENTIFY THE INTRUDER.

Other side of the link. Real-world Sinclair reads text as

it appear on his office screen: IDENTITY NOT CAPTURED.

His text inputs.    Answer comes:     "Path untraceable"

Plexor processes the input - remains emotionless.

Text reply: "Resource allocation reconfiguration required.

Estimated delay to X-Net construction: 46.4 hours."

Sinclair cuts off the contact, pressure mounting.

Ruby beam goes dark. Plexor lowers his disk.        His eyes are

cold, his confidence supreme.

Crisis management team assembles.       Nervous X-Net Senior Staff.

Rush arrives late, out of breath, determined.        Joins Phlegman

and Kelter.

RUSH notices across the room: Brilliant, beautiful MEGAN

RANDALL, his age. Her security ID: "LEVEL BLACK".

Kelter and Phlegman trade a look.       Sure.

Sinclair storms in.       Room falls silent.

Everybody looks at Rush.

Chuckles around the room.    Mood chills: Sinclair's not

laughing.

Meg listens quietly.    Studies Rush.

Minds ponder grimly. Finally, a lone VP rises.      It's RUDY,

the company Archivist.

He's got an obituary photo of FLYNN, Encom's legendary

previous - and deceased - CEO.

Groans around the table. Execs rolls their eyes, disses

Rudy's idea. Flynn has become a stale company joke.

Rudy sheepishly sits.

But Sinclair stops behind Rudy, eyes fixed on the photo of

Flynn. An idea takes hold. He looks to Meg.

Confusion among execs.     Nobody knows what a "QF-401" is.

Not even Rush.

Meg's mind races.

Looks trade around the table.     Meg slowly rises, indicating

her choice.

She's singled out Rush.

Meg leads Sinclair and Rush to a SECURE ELEVATOR.     Her retinal

scan ID opens the door. They step in.

Rush drills a look at Meg, but she keeps it all business.

Out the elevator, Meg leads them into a maze of ultra-tech

gear.

Amid sleek new equipment, there's a glass cabinet housing a

CHARRED REMNANT of strange machinery.

Mega signals lab assistant DEWEY. He pokes buttons:       A

MASSIVE TECHNICAL DEVICE unfolds and boots up.

She opens a cage, places her LAB RAT (Jo-Jo) on a target

stage. Dewey boots controls, presses commands. Beam array

scans the rat into the computer, forming a 3D rat-image on

screens, dematerializing the physical rat. Device revs down.

Rush runs his hand over the empty target stage.

Lab rat has vanished from the physical world.     Its digitized

image rotates on monitors.

Meg agrees.    Rush gets a chill.

Rush views the charred remains in the glass case. Photos of

the destroyed lab. Spooky evidence of a hellish death scene.

A last look at the charred remains of Flynn's machine.

She presses commands. Beams re-materialize the lab rat on

the target stage. Jo-jo is as good as new.

She puts the rat in on her shoulder, feeds it a tidbit.

Then she scrutinizes Rush.

Rush considers Meg, then turns to Sinclair.

Rush looks to Meg.    She offers a reassuring nod.

Lab rat is perched happily on her shoulder.

Rush is awe-struck. Ready, willing, able.        He shakes

Sinclair's hand, sealing the deal.

Meg removes target stage, swings a custom TARGET CHAIR in

place. Rush lowers in place. Meg buckles him in. Last

chance for a private word:

Rush stares at here, in shock.

Meg breaks away, retreating to the controls with Sinclair.

Rush's trails her with his eyes - he can't stop looking.

Meg initiates Quantum Digitizer sequence.

Rush watches PULSING CHROMATIC LIGHT build down the unit's

column, coming toward him.

Plasma strobes CYAN/MAGENTA. Unit HUMS... Then GROANS

WILDLY. Flashes randomize. Something's off balance -

Meg worries.       Moves for the "abort" button.

Unit sparks.       Ceramic components STRESS and CRACK.

Rush clenches his seat, terrified.

Sinclair sees: Monitor sounds company-wide alert:         "X-NET

BREECH! INTRUDER DETECTED!"

Sinclair pulls Meg's hand from the "abort" button and slams

his hand on "DIGITIZE".

BEAM ARRAY scans Rush's body, reducing it to bits -

Meg worries -

Sinclair dives for cover -

PLASMA BALL engulfs Quantum Digitizer.

FINAL BITS of Rush scan away.

Plasma ball FRIES the unit.         Breakers trip.   Power fades.

Meg and Sinclair come up to find:

Quantum Digitizer:       In a smoking heap.

Target chair:       Empty.

Light-speed thrill-ride, hurling into digital chaos.

Rush's electrified body hurtles across the void, eyes filled

with TERROR and AWE.

Shimmering bits morph into an awesome cyberscape.

Rush enters this bizarre world - CRASH/FLASH - stranger in a

strange land. Data energy ZAPS off his body, interacting

with the landscape circuitry around him. He fights it, tries

to control it.

Rush stands, beholds the place. Looks at his hands and arms,

clad in circuitry. He finds he had landed outside:

Fortress-like X-NET CENTRAL SERVER.       ALARMS SOUNDING inside.

He turns, looks up a FIREWALL. Hundreds of X-Takk Troops

hurry to look down. FIRING WEAPONS.

A FIGURE comes at him, down the wall, STREAKING RED.

BLAMMO!

TRON lands on a plateau above Rush, gazing down.

They face each other, equally perplexed.

Rush is no longer human, but not quite a program either.

Energy zaps off his body, infusing the surrounding circuitry.

Tron stares, unblinking - Cyber-Ninja.

Rush's body circuits PULSE with anger - data surges out his

feet, across floor circuitry, up to the plateau. Energy

interacts with Tron's body circuits, siphoning off bits of

code.

Code races across Rush's eyes.        Identification data.

X-Takks hustle onto the scene.

Tron leaps off the plateau, cutting the data connection.      He

whips his disk off his back and THROWS.

Disk SLAMS Rush in the gut, knocks him flat.

X-Takks pursue Tron -

Tron recovers his disk - vanishes in an OUTBOUND DATA STREAM,

losing his pursuers.

X-Takks pull Rush to his feet, shocked.

Pushing through Police: A sleek, smart cyber-babe MEGA.

(She's Meg's cyber-twin: Twice the edge, half the patience,

all the curves.)

Rush is awed by the sight of her.

Mega and X-Takks look at him like he's crazy.

X-Takks move to seize Rush.

Mega touches Rush, exciting his energy flow.        She reads

data streaming in his eyes - TRON'S ID info.

Mega and X-Takks escort Rush across bridges, in security

portals. Firewalls cool and part, allowing them to pass.

Down a grand corridor, past towering energy columns and

throbbing green memory banks. They cross a bridge. View

includes: Vast square concentric security rings surround a

massive cubic POWER SUPPLY CORE.

Plexor toils over the latest security breech, failing to

decipher recordings of the Intruder.

Rush is brought in buy Mega.      He double-takes on Plexor, the

cyber-twin of Sinclair.

Plexor steps closer, scanning Rush.

Plexor activates memory banks. Accesses archive files of

the original low-rez Tron: So harmless, so many years ago.

Bears little resemblance to the upgraded Tron.

Plexor and Mega trade a look.

Rush touches Plexor's command console, but his energy

OVERLOADS the system -

X-Takks pull Rush away.

Rush considers his predicament.

Plexor looks to Mega.

Plexor processes.     His eyes stream barcode data to X-Takks:

X-Takk Troops read Plexor's barcode command with their eyes.

They let go of Rush.

Plexor turns to Mega.       Issues more barcode.

Mega exits with Rush.       Plexor's gaze lingers on Rush.

Security PORTAL opens.

Ultra sleek STRAITHE vehicle glides out, accesses a shiny

new, EMPTY X-NET DATA OPTIK HIGHWAY.

Mega at the controls.    Rush rides, beholding the lightshow

wonder of Cyberspace.

Mega scans data, gets a fix on "KROD".

Mega speeds along empty X-Net OPTIK HIGHWAY. Wide, secure,

newly constructed. High above the tangle of chaotic, clogged

OLD DATA ARTERIES.

Mega pulls STRAITHE into:

Construction nearly complete.       High security.

Mega leads Rush to secured encryption gates.         Her eyes light

with data, the gate opens.

Across a bridge: An old-network HUB CITY. Like Hong Kong

in wilder days. Jammed with Programs, colorful data, loud

data transfer screams.

He heads across, but Mega hesitates.

Mega grudgingly follows.       Portal closes.

Electro-pop overload. Rush and Mega squeeze through crowds,

past screaming data pipes and sizzling circuitry.

City is dominated by mugshots of TRON:          "ENEMY OF THE FUTURE"

Mega locates a gleaming X-NET KIOSK. A PROMOTER (KROD)

extoles the virtues of the X-Net system:

Crowd buzzes.       They can't wait.

Rush approaches Krod. Looks like Miles Rabbish.           There's a

bizarre moment of recognition between them.

Krod smiles big at Mega, refers to Rush:

Rush pulls Krod aside.

He taps his head.

Rush thinks, touches a surface. Concentrates. Circuitry

zaps from data coming off his hands. Connections illuminate,

data races around walls and floors.

Programs stop what they're doing, amazed by the feat.

Mega is astonished - and privately worried.

Rush's data flow illuminates surfaces with images from HIS

memory - the opening light cycle race.

Krod gawks at the image, but he's stumped.

Bingo.

Splat happens in Rush's memory image.        All goes white.

Krod's points to another screen.        "Wanted" image of Tron.

They slap high fives.     Krod double-takes on Rush.

They head out.      Krod falls in beside Mega, impressed by her.

Rush, Krod and Mega head deep into an obsolete, abandoned

region of low-rez circuitry.

He spins. Rush and Mega aren't behind him. They've climbed

inside a defunct I/O Port: Like a retro-tech temple.

Rush pulls his disk off his back, aims it skyward.

Concentrates. Energy flows off his feet, interacts with the

I/O Port floor.

RUBY COMMUNICATION BEAM shoots skyward.

Kelter and Phlegman report to Sinclair:

Guys hustle out.    Sinclair wheels, as Meg storms in.

Sinclair enters retinal ID.      Text forms:

INTRUDER IDENTIFIED.

Meg hurries to the screen.

Text appears:    I AM RUSH.

Her words transform into text.

Rush raises his disk, beaming data into the great unknown.

Smiles as he downloads the response.

Mega and Krod watch nearby.

I/O PORT walls ZAP ENERGY, STRESSING Rush's CONNECTION -

Text appears: INTRUDER IS UPGRADED VERSION OF TRON.

Sinclair and Meg trade baffled looks.

Plexor oversees construction.     X-Takk Commander points to

something in the distance.

Beyond the horizon, the RUBY RED BEAM reaches to the heavens.

Plexor sees it, alarmed.

Text forms in magenta circuitry - GOOD WORK PARTNER.

Mega turns with alarm.

Walls THUNDER and CRASH IN -

Rush leaps clear with his disk -

MASSIVE ROMBALL (data reformatting orb) hurtles around the

I/O Port, ZAPPING all it touches, de-rezzing data structures

into neutral gray "blank matter".

ROMBALL loops skyward.

GIANT D-REZZ PROGRAM crashes down from above, retrieves

ROMBALL - He's ENORMOUS, TOUGH, SINGLE-MINDED.

Sinclair and Meg hang on the broken transmission:

Words appear:    END OF LINE.

D-Rezz screams like a modem, hurls ROMBALL -

Mega and Krod dive clear -

ROMBALL misses them, but BLAZES DOWN two more I/O Ports.        D-

rezz retrieves ROMBALL, bears down on Mega and Krod.

D-Rezz turns his ugly sights on Rush, baited away from Mega

and Krod.

D-rezz flexes and ROARS, revealing an X-NET LOGO on his chest.

D-rezz corners Rush, hurls his ROMBALL - Ball fires every

circuit in its path, bleaching away data energy.

Rush dodges -

Mega throws her disk, plings D-rezz on the skull.      D-rezz

turns on her -

Rush runs, LEAPS on D-Rezz's back.      Like riding a gorilla -

D-Rezz flips Rush to the ground, pins him with one mighty

hand, raises his ROMBALL for the kill.

Data flows from Rush's body, up D-Rezz's clamping arm.

Radiant energy between predator and prey.

Digits race in D-rezz's eyes. A code unlocks. He looks

down, finally registering the X-Net markings on Rush's outfit.

D-Rezz lets go of Rush, slumps back on his haunches.       Lowers

his head in shame.

RUSH rolls the BIG ROMBALL over:     A peace offering.

Mega and Krod cautiously approach.

D-rezz hears this, happy to be understood.       (He never talks.)

D-Rezz stands, clutches his ROMBALL.       Reporting for duty.

D-rezz modem-growls at Krod.

Rush leads them up an incline.

They come to a spectacular vista of the OLD GAME GRID.       Low

resolution, uncool, largely forgotten.

Obsolete, abandoned computer game entry portal, guarding

entry to the old game grid beyond. An electro-tech carnival

zone gone dark. No life in sight... Then:

Beam of DATA ENERGY sling-shots at ground level, solidifying

to become:

A slender, jumpy Program called I-BEEM. He wears the X-Net

logo and a cracked disk on his back. He's highly unstable

and way unplugged from the system (like one of those Japanese

soldiers still fighting alone in the hills 10 years after

WWII was over).

I-Beem sees something - he PANICS, zapping away in

characteristic streaks of airborne data. He reassembles in

a hiding place, skittish, observing:

Rush, Mega, Krod and D-Rezz arrive. See GIANT PILE of GAME

VEHICLE PARTS blocking access to the grid.

Rush picks up an old LIGHT WAND.       Krod finds one too.

D-Rezz hurls his Romball, ZAPS into VEHICLE PARTS.       A dent.

D-rezz retrieves Romball for another whack -

ZAP -    DATA ENERGY BEAM snaps in front of them, becoming I-

Beem.    He grips his rickety disk, challenging them.

Mega scans I-beem.     He freaks, drops his disk, grabs for it.

D-Rezz raises his Romball to pulverize I-Beem.

I-Beem freaks, ZAPS away in his data beam as Romball crashes

down. I-Beem reforms further way, then beside them - He

snatches his pancake disk, the zaps away again, emerging

then high on the pile of parts.

He kicks parts - avalanche fills the gap D-rezz blasted.

D-rezz cocks Romball. I-Beem freaks, sling-shots all over

the place via his data beam, tossing his wobbly disk.

Rush catches I-Beem's disk.       Holds off D-Rezz.

Mega throws Rush a look.    I-beem comes up, grateful.

Data zags to Rush, forming into: I-Beem.       Wide-eyed.

Rush trades looks with Mega, Krod and D-Rezz.       Trail is hot.

I-Beem stiffens, reflexively vigilant. He scans the four of

them again, finally softening. He zaps to a wall near his

giant barrier, then proudly pushes aside a thin panel. Beyond

a corridor of game gear, view expanses to reveal:

Rush steps across the vast vector-graphic grid surface.

Eerie.   Quiet.     Pure.

Mega, I-Beem, Krod and D-rezz follow.

Rush kneels, touches grid lines.    Circuits energize, as his

energy surges in all directions.    He draws in data.

Krod's eyes flash data to I-Beem and D-rezz.      "Tr165444.018".

D-Rezz nods, palming his Romball.

D-rezz grips Romball, grunts affirmation.    He and I-beem

head for the perimeter of the grid.

Rush unsheathes his LIGHT WAND.

Krod pulls out his own LIGHT WAND.

They both look at Mega.

She's got no light wand.

Krod holds his light wand forward, activates it.    LIGHT CYCLE

up-rezzes under him. He revs it, ready to go.

Rush activates his light wand. LIGHT CYCLE up-rezzes under

him, with a special two tier seat for a second rider.

Mega considers. There's more on her mind she's not talking

about. She smiles at Rush, climbs on back of his light cycle.

A nod between Rush and Rush - they TAKE OFF.

LIGHT CYCLES shoot across grid surface.

Mega screams and clutches Rush, throwing her body against

his, clamping her arms around him.

Krod and Rush turn 90 degrees, rallying, passing each other,

getting warmed up. It's familiar territory.

Light cycles race toward each other on the same line.

Mega holds Rush tight, eyes filling with terror.

But Krod and Rush slow their light cycles with expert skill,

rolling safely to a halt, nose-to-nose. Directly over:

A BIG RED DOT.      The only dot on the grid.

Grid Center.

Mega, Rush and Krod raise up to scan the horizon.        It's all

clear flat grid to the horizon.

They watch, wait, pivot.

D-rezz and I-beem search grid edge, along the rocky boundary.

I-beem zaps himself further along, finding:

Glowing code numbers mark the end of each grid line.

D-rezz grunts, points.      One lights up "Tr165444.018"

They follow the line off the grid, where it leads into a

narrow rocky pass.

Rush, Mega and Krod wait on their light cycles.

SPECK moves on the horizon, turns a corner, stays on the

horizon. Another corner. It's a light cycle, making a huge

box around them.

Lightcycle turns toward them, coming fast.

Mega hugs Rush.

They SPEED AWAY.

Approaching cycle comes at 90 degree angle, turns hard, closes

the distance.

It's TRON.    Heartless eyes, ruthless moves.

Rush turns quick, baiting Tron.      Tron turns to follow, coming

alongside.

Krod runs interference, cuts sharp in front of Tron.

It's a high-stakes speed-chase, narrowly missing side walls

and rock outcroppings.

I-beem zaps onto the grid, tracks horizon dots.

He zaps back to the edge, signals upward. D-rezz straddles

the rock passage above, ready to hurl his Romball.

Tron takes the lead in a three-way heat.      Revs to breath-

taking speed.

Rush and Krod gain, coming up on either side of Tron.

Tron looks to each opponent.      His eyes lock on Mega.

Mega stares into Tron's cold eyes, almost like she's trying

to signal him. But Tron returns his gaze forward, as the

ROCKY EDGE looms closer.

Rush kicks in a hyper-burner, surging forward.      Krod does

the same. Tron responds with more speed.

Rush and Krod have Tron sandwiched, heading for the rock

edge. Tron pulls ahead, aiming for the hidden crevasse.

Mega worries.    Clings to Rush.

D-rezz, astride the crevasse, sees light cycles speeding his

way. He's got the Rom-ball poised to intercept Tron.

I-beem de-rezzes into the grid, clearing the path.

Rush and Krod taunt Tron into the trap...

But, out of nowhere, Mega reaches to Rush's handlebars and

turns 90 degrees too soon.

Tron sees the bail-out, knows something's wrong. He looks

ahead, sees D-rezz astride his crevasse escape root, rom-

ball poised in the air.

Tron bails out 90 degrees, cutting behind Krod.       Krod turns

twice, ending up in Tron's lane.

To the side, Rush's light cycle screams toward solid rock,

vibrating out of control.

Rush grabs Mega and JUMPS OFF.       They slide on the grid,

holding each other.

Krod's lightcycle heads for the rock escape passage.

Rush and Mega slide to a halt, in time to see:

Their light cycle SMASHES rocks, explodes in a million bits.

Krod shoots gap.      D-rezz is ready to smash him with his

Romball.

D-rezz makes mental switch, hurls Romball.

Romball bounces down solid rock, onto game grid, rolls with

ferocious speed, DIAGONALLY across the grid.

Romball curves to track Tron - like a great bowling shot.

Romball clips rear wheel of Tron's lightcycle.       Lightcycle

vaporizes. Tron skids and tumbles.

I-beem zaps beside Rush and Mega.       Krod and D-rezz join them.

Tron climbs over rocks, escaping through a TUNNEL.

WHOOSH! Electro-fire Romball careens across grid, bearing

down on them.

Group DIVES CLEAR.

D-rezz swings in a foot, stopping the Romball - inches short

of mowing down Krod.

He strobes, freezes, hits the deck.

Stalking their prey:       Rush, Krod, I-beem and D-rezz.

Ahead, vast old circuitry has been "eaten through" by dull

throbbing greenish MEMORY LEAKAGE. Paths of unaffected

material are narrow and maze-like.

D-rezz grunts.

Krod turns to head home.

D-rezz steps forward, then I-Beem.      Shamed, Krod joins them.

Finally, Mega makes it unanimous.

I-beem and D-rezz buddy up and depart on a recon mission.

Krod pulls off his disk, nervously practices boomerang throws.

Rush pulls the disk off his own back.      He throws - disk flies

wild - he runs to retrieve it.

Mega retreats to a side area, partially eroded by memory

leakage. She finds the remnants of COM CIRCUITRY and stares

data beams into its transducer.

Plexor's vehicle circuitry forms image of Mega.

Around a corner, Rush comes to retrieve his disk.       He pauses

to eavesdrop on Mega's communication:

Rush listens, hurt and angry.

Circuits go dark.    Mega turns, running smack into:

Angry silence.    Eyes locked.

She moves to exit past him.        He snags her arm, pulls her

back and KISSES HER.

Energy ZAPS between them, racing through their body circuits.

Rush downloads the spiky sensation.        Mega remains cold and

bewildered.

Outside, Krod tosses his disk, moving to track as it arcs

through the air. He notices Rush and Mega kissing. Digs it

vicariously.

His disk clunks him on the head.

Mega breaks the kiss, backing off, conflicted.        Arcs of energy

stretch between them, then snap loose.

Mega tries to ignore the kiss.        She exits past the guys.

Rush, Krod and Mega hurry to see:

I-beem zap-zap-zaps toward them, scared to death -

Rush stows his disk on his back -

Eaten away by memory leaks, like swiss cheese.

Rush, Mega, Krod follow I-beem along narrow paths of

unaffected material.

Krod trips, his LIGHT WAND tumbles and skates into memory

leakage. It FRIES and de-rezzes, sucked into the molten

silicon swamp.

Sounds like a modem, but it's a BATTLE-CRY.

Rush comes to a point above - and cut off from - the fight.

D-rezz advances along a narrow gantry, spinning his Romball,

ready to hurl at:

TRON.

Tron flips over memory leakage, gains position and throws

his disk -

Disk HITS D-rezz. Plasma-ball GASH, but D-rezz is tough.

He takes the damage, cocks his Romball -

Rush darts down to help D-rezz. Mega, Rush hurry ahead.     I-

beem zaps, zags and reforms, scared out of his mind.

D-rezz hurls his Romball -

Romball pings off two walls, comes at Tron from behind.

Tron spins - milliseconds to spare - and flips clear.

Retrieves his disk on the way down.

Romball slams off a wall, heads back to D-rezz, but Tron's

disk HITS IT, knocking it off course.

D-rezz dives for ROMBALL - but it falls into the memory leak

and FRIES TO BITS.

Tron plants for a clear shot at D-rezz.

Rush JUMPS down from above, right in front of D-rezz.

His ankle.    He straightens, standing in front of D-rezz.

Lays eyes on Tron.

D-rezz is twice as big as either of them.

Tron's eyes are cold, lifeless, calculating.       Scanning his

new opponent without success.

Rush pulls his disk off his back, poised for a duel.

Tron moves with calculation, grips his hyper-etched disk.

Circling his prey.

Throws again -

BRRANGG -

Rush DUCKS -

Tron's disk slams D-rezz.     D-rezz tries to catch the disk,

but he's just too slow.

Rush throws his disk. Beginner's luck - it banks off a wall

and nearly smacks Tron. Rush snags it on the way back, before

it tumbles into memory leakage.

Tron jumps up two levels.     Retrieves his disk.

D-rezz hoists Rush up.     Fingers grab upper deck.

Tron jockeys for position.     Throws disk -

Disk strikes D-rezz in the ribs.     Blast damage.

D-rezz loses footing.

Rush grabs upper level.

D-rezz slips toward memory leakage.

Rush grabs D-rezz's hand - he weighs a ton.

Mega, Krod and I-beem can't get here to help -

But D-rezz's big hand slips out of Rush's.

D-rezz PLUMMETS into memory leakage, zapping away in a blaze

of glory -

He comes to his feet, facing Tron.       Determined.

Tron pauses.    Processes.

Tron glitches at the question.

Tron throws his disk.

Rush dodges. He sends waves of data energy through floor

circuits, reaching into Tron's body.

Tron's body animates painfully, as the first three code digits

click into place.

Tron FLIPS away, breaking contact with floor.        Data transfer

stops. Tron steals away through a tunnel.

Rush pursues.

Krod, Mega and I-beem clamber for a way to follow.

Circular, riddled with memory leaks.

Rush hurries to the center.       No sign of Tron.

Rush sends data coursing into floor circuits. It radiates

up walls, across bridges... And finds TRON in hiding.

Data races into Tron's body. Six code numbers engage; he

glitches. He LEAPS to breaks the contact, flinging his disk -

Tron's disk SLAMS Rush.       Rush tumbles off a ledge, dangling

over a memory leak.

Tron pounces in.    Snags his disk.

Tron steps on Rush's hand.         Pain energy jolts Rush's circuits.

Rush slips, grabs a slim protrusion.         Feet zapping an inch

from the memory leakage.

Tron throws his disk for a final time.         It arcs wide, coming

around directly at Rush.

Tron leans down, gazing into Rush's eyes.

Burst of SEARING DATA surges off Rush's hands, radiating up

circuitry, loading into Tron's body. All nine code numbers

LOCK in.

Tron's body seizes. He fights the data intrusion, but his

circuits sequentially SHUT DOWN.

Tron's airborne disk wobbles and darkens.

Tron tumbles off the edge, plummets past Rush.

Disk misses Rush, skates into darkness.

Mega, Krod and I-beem hurry in and see:

Rush, climbing to safety.

And below: Tron's body slips into the memory leakage, zapping

away to bits.

But Mega looks dreadfully worried.     She slips away...

Krod and I-beem climb down and help Rush to his feet.

Rush gazes off the precipice. Remains of Tron is consumed

by the swamp of memory leakage.

Krod slams him, makes him stop.

Rush looks around.

Rush searches. He finds Tron's disk, picks it up.     It's

dark and lifeless, circuits gray.

SOUNDS echo around them.       Coming fast.    Electro-metallic

footsteps.

Rush, Krod and I-beem bunch together and pivot.

Black-clad FINITY FIGHTERS appear, blocking all exits.            Disks

ready for attack.

Rush double-takes on faces among them: QUANTZ, tall silent,

hardcore (looks like real-world Phlegman) And BOOLE, rotund,

seen it all (like real-world Kelter).

But I-beem freezes, terrified.         Fighters tighten perimeter.

A hush.   Footsteps.      Clunk-zap...    Clunk-zap.

Rush and Krod turn.       Fighters defer to:

A DARK FIGURE, limping forward, one leg badly deformed by

data corruption.

Rush is surprised, then pleased.         Somebody finally gets it.

Figure's circuitry lights.         Finally, we see the face...

It is FLYNN.

I-beem panics, zaps away in an energy beam. He reforms

further along for a "breath", then zaps further away. Three

FINITY FIGHTERS chase him.

Rush is amazed to find him self in the presence of Encom's

former leader.

Flynn comes closer, recognizing Rush.

They are equally dumbfounded.

Fighters step aside, Mega enters, furious at Rush.

Mega and Rush ooze mutual contempt.    Rush turns on Flynn.

Flynn yanks Tron's disk from Rush, peers over the precipice.

Below, the last of Tron is consumed by memory leakage.

Flynn ponders Tron's lifeless disk. He falters on his bad

leg. Mega throws an arm around to help him stand. Melancholy

energy courses between them.

They know each other well.

Rush registers jealousy, but larger concerns prevail:

Flynn studies Rush, anger rising.

He indicates his deformed leg.     Mega, Krod and the others

listen with awed bewilderment.     These two guys speak of a

world unknown to them.

Malicious grumbles from Fighters.

Three Fighters return from the I-beem pursuit.      Empty-handed.

Flynn scowls at Rush. Sin number two.       Flynn slips Tron's

dead disk in a special case.

Energy zaps across grid, forming into I-beem. He's on the

run, de-rezzing, zapping, reforming, bolting for:

I-beem de-rezzes, reforms, zaps himself toward the nearest X-

Net OPTIK HIGHWAY.

Fighters thread secret buffers and gates.      Flynn carries

Tron's disk, helped along by Mega.

Rush and Krod are held prisoner, prodded by Quantz and Boole.

They cross a DATA BRIDGE, drawn to the sounds of SHREIKING

PANIC.

Vast, retro, multi-level.   Diverse and beautiful energy flows.

Circular architecture.

Flynn, Mega, Rush, Krod and Fighters come to a stunning view:

GLEAMING NEW X-NET DATA OPTIK HIGHWAY is being constructed

right through the heart of the city.

City descends into panic. X-Takk Troops evict Programs,

seize prisoners and mercilessly hunt down resistors.

X-Net Construction Crews build the Optik Highway with

relentless precision, blasting aside the old city's splendid

structures.

X-Takk Troops storm closer - by the hundreds.

He leads them down a secret portal, into:

Group moves along a catwalk, coming to a view of:

X-Takks herd Captured Resistor Programs, lining them up for

execution.

A Kid Program runs to this Captured Father Program.

X-Takks haul Kid Program clear, then BLAST the Captives with

de-rezz weapons. Captives glitch, thrash and expire.

Like any other day. Except a high-rise building's lights

flicker off. A subway escalator stops. A traffic light

turns red on both sides. Cars honk, tempers flare.

A TV store: All TVs in the window flip to one channel, which

happens to be running a commercial for X-Net - theme: Total

Data Security".

X-Takk Troops line up more Captive Programs.

X-Takk troops blast Captive Programs.

ATM machine goes berserk.

Block full of Pedestrians suddenly - and simultaneously -

can't get their cell phones to work.

GPS navigation system map flips around.

SUV Driver panics, pulls a hard turn and SMASHES a BUS.

X-Takks hear Rush's shouts.     An overwhelming force.

Flynn and Mega shove Rush into a tunnel, closing the portal -

Flynn hastens their journey.

Mega, Boole and Quantz move along, shoving Krod and Rush.

Flynn turns on Rush - one of Sinclair's cards.

He glances at Mega, then shoves Rush along.

Flynn, Mega, Fighters bring Rush and Krod into the clandestine

Fighter base. Like a wartime casualty center, with corrupted

Fighter Programs lining corridors.

They arrive at a laser-barred JAIL BLOCK, where a dozen BIG

X-Takk Troops are held prisoner.

Flynn and Mega turn to go.      Boole and Quantz use PROD LANCES

to herd Rush and Krod.

Flynn pauses.    Rush speaks low, so X-Net Captives can't hear.

Flynn puzzles over Rush.

Mega circles Rush, scanning his circuits.

Rush points a finger at Mega - BOLT of ATTRACTION ENERGY

shoots off his finger, ZAPS her on the nose.

Mega's circuits OVERLOAD, she flies back -

Rush, startled, looks at his finger.

Fighters muscle Rush and Krod away.

Flynn holds Mega, anger re-ignited.

Fighters toss Rush and Krod in the JAIL BLOCK with the BIG X-

TAKK soldiers. Does finger-signs, body circuit language.

Rush peers out of his cage, watching Mega go.        She turns for

a final scowl, then exits.

X-Takk Troops sound alert.

Outside the main portal, energy zaps and splinters above

ground circuits, collecting to become:

I-beem, reforming, running, stumbling.      Some body parts out

of sync, catching up.

Breathless, he loses count.        Zaps beside himself.   Again:

Portal opens.

X-Takk Troops trade looks, impressed.

Plexor hardens.

Plexor's circuitry strobes in dark troubled hues.         An image

appears on his archive screen: Flynn.

Plexor processes - his cranial circuits burn deep amber.

Plexor turns to I-beem, grateful.        Removes I-beem's flimsy

broken disk, studies it gently.

Plexor energizes a REWARD PORTAL. Shimmering golden light

beckons I-beem. He eagerly enters - and gets ZAPPED. I-

beem emerges out the other side, a zombie-like X-Net Drone,

joining a security crew.

Plexor enters, raises his disk.        RUBY RED BEAM connects.

Sinclair paces amid a buzz of manic activity. TVs show news

of escalating global data crashes. In comes a MARKETING VP.

Sinclair absorbs his good fortune.         Smirks.

Execs cheer, trade high-fives.

Sinclair notices a blip on his private data screen.

The office clears, doors shut.         Sinclair, alone now, interacts

with his screen.

Text: INTRUDER HAS BEEN ELIMINATED.

But:   THERE REMAINS AN AREA OF UNCERTAINTY.

Sinclair reads the text, blind-sided.         Sees a photo of Flynn.

Sinclair ponders the unimaginable.

Sinclair peers at the screen text, agitation growing. A

news article pops up, recounting the lab accident and Flynn's

"death". X-Net launch countdown ticks.

Sinclair mulls for two seconds, then:

Rush and Krod get chummy with cell-mate X-Takks.     They mock-

fight together, getting insider tips.

Indicates a CIRCUIT NEXUS on his lower SPINE.

Krod twists around, playing with his spinal nexus.

Pull back to see:

Flynn secretly observes Rush.     Pondering.    Boole arrives

behind him.

They head upstairs.

Flynn reviews Fighter training. Troops throw disks, battle

in pairs, repair weapons, tweak armor circuitry.

Flynn carries Tron's dark disk, contemplating it.       He moves

past a line-up of his finest Fighters.

He holds up Tron's disk.

All Fighters take a step forward.

All stand firm.

Flynn lays Tron's disk in the first Fighter's hands. Fighter

summons his will, causing the disk to glow faintly. But it

soon goes dark again.

Next Fighter holds the disk, bearing down, animating the

circuits... But he buckles and the disk falls dims.

Mega worries: One-by-one, Fighters fail to power Tron's

disk. Flynn reaches the end of the line.

Mega puts her hands out to receive the disk.

Flynn hesitates, then hands her Tron's disk.

Mega clenches it, concentrating deeply. Her energy infuses

the disk, animating its circuits stronger than anyone.

Bur soon, her eyes strobe, her body circuits overload.

She lets go.    Tron's disk thunks the floor, goes dark.

Mega hardens her resolve.

Other Fighters chime in, but they don't know what to do.

A FIGHTER SENTRY dashes in.

Rush, Krod and X-Tekk Prisoners heard COMMOTION in the main

hideout area above.

Phalanx of X-NET SECURITY CRUISERS moves in, mashing

circuitry - X-TEKK TROOPS rowst Civilian Programs.

Plexor commands LEAD CRUISER.

CRUISERS with X-Takks split in several directions.

X-Takk Squads crash fleeing programs.

CRUISERS with X-Takk Troops ravage grid, moving into:

X-Net CRUISERS crash through. ASSEMBLER UNITS spew freshly

programmed BRIDGES over memory leak swamps. X-Takk troops

hustle deeper.

X-Takks storm in. Specialized units scan memory leaks, detect

code fragments - schematic images of Tron.

Plexor surveys the place.

Plexor activates a Q-MINATOR. Device emits a PLANE of

coherent pulsing energy, which scans the area, illuminates

the RACING DATA BIT PATTERNS within all circuits, programs

and surfaces. (An x-ray-like device that reveals all computer

machine code underlying every cyberspace object.)

A trail of code BURNS HOT NEON GREEN.

X-Net Cruisers crash the city.      Programs scatter.

Plexor commands Lead Cruiser, sweeps Q-MINATOR. Running

Civilian Programs are rendered "naked" by the beam, bodies

revealed as volumes of buzzing data bits "1010011101010110..."

Cruisers deploy DE-REZZ BEAMS, slicing open structures.

Flashing bitstorm, screaming Civilian Programs -     The wrath

of X-Net is unleashed upon the city.

CRASH!

Walls slice and crumble -

X-NET CRUISERS blast their way in, coming to a stop in precise

formation.

Plexor emerges from Lead Cruiser.

Stops.   Looks.

The place is empty.

Not a fighter in sight.

Plexor and X-Takks hustle down, finding:

Rush, Krod and the X-Takk Prisoners, behind bars.

X-Takk Specialists hack the system, power down jail bars.

Prisoners step forth and retrieve their impounded disks.

Rush and Krod notice: Behind Plexor and his Soldiers, BOOLE,

QUANTZ and FINITY FIGHTERS move into position. They signal

Rush and Krod not to blow their cover. Rush makes Krod

comply. An ambush is ready to spring.

X-Takk Prisoners are confused.

Fighters POUNCE, throwing disks -

Rush grabs a PROD LANCE, nails two X-Takks on their spinal

nexus. They go down hard.

Plexor hurls an ENERGY BALL - Rush DUCKS, grazed by its

FRACTAL comet trail.

Fighters beat back Plexor.         His concerns shift.    He ducks

into an ascension shaft -

Rush and Krod are left fighting back-to-back, out-manned

three-to-one.

Plexor races upward, but is blocked by a unit of Fighters.

Plexor pulls off his special TRIANGULAR DEATH DISK - FLINGS

it. Disk ricochets off three Fighters, knocking them out.

Another lethal fling and the remains Fighters fall.

Plexor retrieves his death-disk with heart-stopping accuracy,

darts into:

X-Takk Troops react, bolting for their Cruisers.

Floor circuits ACTIVATE -     X-Takks ZAP and FREEZE.

Fighters appear from all directions.

Disks fly -

X-Takks wield stout MAZER weapons -

Even the corrupted Fighter Programs pitch in, working in

clever teams, chipping away at Plexor's forces.

But X-Takks have tougher armor and more awesome weapons.

X-Takk Mazer cuts down Fighters by the dozen, leaving them

corrupted or shut down.

UPPER LEVEL:

Flynn struggles to help wounded Fighters - He captures a

Mazer and uses it against X-Takks... But Flynn can't move

well on his bad leg. He watches his troops getting trounced.

ZAP!   A Mazer blast strikes Flynn's bad leg.

Mega appears, throws her disk with deadly accuracy. The

offending X-Takk Soldier crashes. Millions of bits spray

over main arena - fractal fireworks.

Mega grabs Flynn from falling.       They make for a bridge.

Flynn slaps a wall panel.       Trigger circuit activates, surging

down into...

...Circuit energizes a sector of floor circuits, which

overload and BLAZE - frying twenty X-Takks.

Rush and Krod use puny PROD LANCES against fearsome X-Takks...

Rush charges an X-Takk dude, Krod gets cornered by another.

Rush dodges his death blow, spine-zapping his foe... Krod

prepares to die, as X-Takk Bully pins him with a Mazer and

squeezes the trigger.

X-Takk Bully seizes, freezes, crashes. Mazer barrel falls

away from Krod - he's lucky to be alive. Rush stows Zap

Wand, grabs Mazer and yanks Krod to his feet.

Boole and Quantz sweep past, gathering Rush and Krod into

their unit. They charge up the ascension shaft.

Plexor hurls DEATH DISK, takes out Fighters.

He spins, looks up: Glimpses Flynn and Mega running along a

ledge. He heads after them, working his way upward.

Rush and Krod emerge behind an X-Takk Cruiser. They knock

out two X-Takk Soldiers, steal their MAZER WEAPONS.

Fighter Specialists hustle in, attach ENCRYPTION PODS to the

Cruiser. Data meltdown radiates from the key, "burning"

through the Cruiser like paper.

Cruiser implodes.

Rush spots Plexor heading to upper levels.         He pursues.

Flynn and Mega help corrupted Fighters toward the bridge.

WHAM!

A wounded Fighter is struck down. Triangular DEATH DISK

swings wide, takes out another, then the last...

Mega and Flynn spin to see:

Plexor steps forward, retrieving his Death Disk.         Blocking

their exit.

Instead, she shields Flynn's body.

Sinclair's circuits snap with rage.

Plexor brings back his DEATH DISK.

In the shadows: Rush, creeping along the periphery, gaining

position on Plexor.

Plexor readies his disk to FIRE -

He pivots, hurls Death Disk at Rush.

Rush dives clear, sends his data energy into surrounding

circuits. Circuits activate around Plexor, surging PAIN

DATA into his body.

But Plexor resists Rush's data infusion, freezing the circuits

around his feet. Cutting off the flow.

Death Disk slices walls, arcing back toward Plexor -

Rush LEAPS at Plexor.

BLANG!

Plexor is solid-state, like a cast iron statue.    Rush flips

airborne, goes down hard.

Plexor considers Rush, astonished by his audacity.

It's a millisecond's distraction - Death Disk returns to

Plexor's hand, but swings wide and GRAZES his ARM, leaving a

swath of painful CORRUPTION.

X-Takks hustle in with hefty NEGABYTE BLASTERS.

Flynn, Mega and Flynn dash across the bridge.

NEGABYTE BEAMS slice walls, erasing all data in their path.

Rush, Flynn and Mega dive into a tunnel, escaping by inches.

Rush, Mega and Flynn, pursued, rendezvous with Krod, Boole

and Quantz.

Rush helps Krod, Quantz and Boole into a data pipe.       One by

one, they WHIRL away in the flow of chromatic data.

Flynn and Mega have a breathless moment to consider Rush.

Mega struggles to compute.

Rush turns to help Flynn down the pipe. Mega assists.

Flynn's wounded leg gives out, he slips. Rush holds him,

but loses his balance, slides down.

But she hesitates -

VELCRONIC BEAMS snag her from behind - pulling her back onto

the ledge.

Rush tumbles down the flume, glancing back to see:

Mega, hauled away by X-Takk Troops.

Fighters, Krod, Rush and Flynn surf down the data WHIRL,

accelerating away from the hot zone.

X-Takks jump in after them, but are all swallowed by the

flow - gone.

Bashed and ruined, littered with fallen Fighters.

Plexor nurses his injured arm, commanding the mop-up.

X-Takks bring Mega to their leader.

Mega stands defiant.

Plexor regards her sternly. Extends his hand to her shoulder,

cupping the back of her neck.

DATA ENERGY SURGES from his eyes, flushing her body circuits.

She fights intensifying input, but soon weakens. She glitches

and shuts down, falling into the arms of X-Takks.

Flynn leads the way, surfing the chromatic hyper-speed flow

with Quantz and Boole.

Rush and Krod struggle to master the technique, rolling,

slipping, recovering, grabbing each other.

Boole surfs around them, heading into a squirrely curve.

Krod swings high, out of control.     Dumps in front of Rush,

who flips him upright.

Rush and Krod swerve and gathers speed, shooting past Quantz,

Boole and Flynn - pivoting to surf BACKWARDS!

Rush flips up and surfs on his hands.       Krod attempts to match

the move.

Rush and Krod crane around to see:

DATA PIPE spills into a massive DATA FLUME.

Rush and Krod plummet into surging hot data, out of control.

Flynn and Fighters expertly surf huge waves.

Flynn, Boole and Quantz drag Rush and Krod from data shallows.

Everyone's circuits are hot and overloaded.

They let him go him go.       Krod glitches, collapses.

Rush gets to his feet, head spinning.

Flynn sizes up his new convert.

Boole, Quantz and Krod are confused, but Flynn gets it.

Flynn accepts a handshake from Rush.

Group sets out across a vast region of unpowered circuitry.

