TITLE SEQUENCE

The snow covered Alps stand out clearly in the light of a full

moon.  A fortress-like CHATEAU is situated in a flat saddle of

forest partway up the mountain, next to a frozen lake.  The

property is surrounded by high stone walls, and the stately

grounds are bathed in floodlights and patrolled by armed guards

with dogs.

The driveway and motorcourt are filled with cars.  A formal-

dress party is in progress... a private reception for a middle-

eastern dignitary.  Tuxedoes men escort their diamond-encrusted

ladies through the huge front doors, where they doff their

overcoats and are politely scanned with hand-held metal

detectors by white gloved security staffers.

The walled perimeter of the house runs along the lake, forming

a kind of rampart.  There is an opening, to a kind of waterway

or canal, which connects to the private docks inside the

grounds.  There is a steel grating across the opening.  The

bars disappear down into the thin ice of early winter.

With the house visible BG, we CRANE DOWN below the parapet wall

along which a guard is a white exposure-suit is walking... down

along the dark wall to the grating... TILTING DOWN to see a

glow pulsing under the ice.

Camera moving toward:  A FIGURE in diving gear working at the

metal bars with an oxygen arc cutting torch.  One bar has

already been cut out.  Two quick cuts and a second bar falls to

the muddy bottom.  Lit now only from the floodlights filtering

down through the ice, the figure slips through the bars and

swims powerfully along the stone canal wall.

Seem from below, the figure is a black shadow moving against

the rippled-glass of the ice above.

A dock extends into the frozen canal, just behind a large

boathouse.  There is a faint chipping sound.  The ice breaks

quietly, and the pieces are slid back.  A head appears, in a

rubber drysuit hood.  The DIVER slips the regulator out of his

mouth and turns slowly, scanning...  revealing:

HARRY TASKER.  Our hero.  Harry floats with just his eyes above

the surface, silent as a water snake, as a guard passes on a

footpath nearby.

After a few beats Harry slips out of his tanks and fins,

letting them sink, and climbs the frozen ladder onto the dock.

He moves like a ninja into the shadows of the boathouse.

Opening a WATERPROOF BAG, he pulls out a walky talky.

Meet Harry's partner, ALBERT "GIB" GIBSON, an overweight twenty-

year-man with a lived in looking face.  Gib answers Harry via

his headset.

Outside, FAST FAISIL, an Iranian-American, finishes making

yellow snow and hurries back to the van.  They are parked on a

winding mountain road a half-mile from the chateau, whose

lights are visible through the trees.

Faisil jumps in and goes to the eyepiece of a huge telephoto

nightvision scope.  The eerie green image lurches as he sweeps

the grounds, locating the boathouse.

Concealed in the shadows, Harry is shucking out of his drysuit.

Underneath is he is wearing black tux pants, suspenders,

cummerbund and a formal shirt.  He puts a tiny plug, like a

hearing aid, deep in his ear canal.  A SUB-VOCAL TRANSCEIVER.

Very advanced.

Harry slips into his shoulder harness... holster on one side,

containing his .45 auto Glock-22, and the transmitter pack for

the ear-piece slung on the other.  He slips on a formal jacket,

concealing the rig.  Then a final touch.  A little aftershave

from a tiny plastic vial.

Harry adjusts his bow-tie and strides confidently out of the

shadows, crossing quickly to the main house.  He looks

ultrasharp in his black tux with the white silk cummerbund and

his hair slicked back.  He enters the main house through a back

service entrance.

Harry strides through the huge kitchen like he owns the place.

The kitchen staff are scurrying around, too busy to really

notice.  He finger-tastes a dish as he passes.

He breezes through unchallenged, exiting into the--

Here the party is in full swing.  Harry blends smoothly into

the crowd of foreign dignitaries, businessman and minor mid-

east nobility.  They are a high-octane mixture of new oil money

and old European money, and run the spectrum from stodgy

bankers to playboy arms dealers.

Harry strolls amiably among the glittering woman, the cigar

smoking men, casually snagging a glass of champagne and a

canape from the passing waiters.  He nods to someone as if he

knows them.  Greets another is quite fluent Arabic.  People in

his wake look at each other like "Do you know him?"   They

shrug, go on with their conversation.  Harry moves through the

crowd.  Scanning.

HARRY'S POV - Through the crowd is sees JAMAL KHALED, the host

of the party and owner of the chateau.  He is fat and animated,

greeting guests with a flourish.  As Harry watches he warmly     *

greets a beautiful WOMAN.  They become absorbed in a             *

conversation.

The woman glances up and sees Harry checking her out.  There is

a frank moment of returned interest.  Then the crowd shifts,

cutting off their view of each other.

Harry makes his way up the grand staircase to the second floor.  *

He slips through doors into the private area of the mansion.     *

The doors open and Harry slips into the darkened library.  He    *

crosses quickly to a window and opens it onto a terrace.         *

Harry goes onto the terrace, and in a display of acrobatic       *

prowess, he pulls himself up onto the third floor balcony        *

directly above.  He lets himself into--                          *

Khaled's office is ornately furnished.  Beautiful antiques

glint in the moonlight coming in the French-doors.  Harry

crosses to an immense desk and boots up the computer there.

Bathed in the glow from the screen, he pulls a FLAT BOX,  about

the size of a paperback,  from the back of his cummerbund.  He

connects it quickly to the modem port in the back of the

computer.

He pushes a button and a green light comes on.

Gib and Faisil watch as their monitor screen lights with DATA

from Khaled's private computer.

Fast Faisil is a computer ace.  His fingers fly on the keyboard

as he types rapid key commands.  We see familiar "windows

appear".  The words are all in Arabic characters.

TIGHT ON LIBRARY DOOR.  It opens a crack and a dental mirror     *

comes out, looking around like a U-boat periscope.  Seeing the

coast is clear Harry slips out.  But just as he is closing the

door, a GUARD rounds the corner ten feet away.  Harry turns

smoothly.  He smiles sheepishly and moves toward the guard.

The guard points warily down the corridor.  Harry nods and

heads that way, back toward the party.

Harry comes down the staircase amid the glitter of the party.

He is sipping champagne and looking bored.  He sees two

security guys moving purposefully through the crowd toward the

stairs, walkies in their hands.  He turns away as they pass him

and pretends to study a large fragment of bas-relief... a

temple frieze depicting a war chariot drawn by four horses.

He senses someone next to him and turns.  It is the WOMAN.  She  *

is captivatingly beautiful, and her gaze is piercing.

Harry offers his hand to her.

Gib whirls to the screen displaying the mission database.  He

scans rapidly for--

Gib finds the entry he's looking for.  Juno's picture and data

appear on the screen.

Harry turns back to the fragment of frieze.

Seen through the starlight scope, we see one of the guards

shining his light on the hole in the ice and then on Harry's

footprints leading to the boathouse.  He calls to one of the

other guards, who comes running over.

Harry, still with Juno, hears Gib in his ear:

Harry glances up the stairs.  Khaled's SECURITY CHIEF is

gesturing to several of his men, and speaking quickly into a

walky.  Three SECURITY MEN come down the stairs, scanning the

crowd.  Harry turns smoothly away from them and takes Juno's

arm.

He steers her toward the dance floor.

Gib, listening, rolls his eyes.  He looks through the night-

vision scope.  Guards are running around outside the chateau.

Harry's stirred up the hornet's nest.  Faisil is still jamming

at the keyboard.

Harry whirls Juno aggressively across the dancefloor.  She

responds deftly.  They are well matched.  She parries each of

his smooth moves with a flourish.  It is a contest of wills,

and a surprised appraisal for each that the other is worthy.

Juno is hot.  He bends her back at the waist, then snaps her

up.  She twirls into the crook of his arm.  Their faces are

inches apart.  Wow.  The music ends and she gives him a wry

grin.

She slips a card out of a pocket in her otherwise sheer dress.

She hands it to him, maintaining eye contact.  Serious sparks.

Gib can't believe this conversation.

Harry nods to the security men at the door as he strides

confidently through.  He goes down the steps to the broad

terrace above the motor court.  Behind Harry, a GUARD lowers

his walky talky and starts after him.

Without turning, Harry slips a small flat box out of his breast

pocket.  A REMOTE DETONATOR.

He pushes the button and--                                       *

KABOOM!  The  second floor office windows blow out in a fiery

explosion.  Using the diversion, Harry leaps off the terrace

before the guard can open fire.

Gib sees the rising fireball a half-mile away.  He starts the

van.

Harry sprints across the snow-covered lawn, through the trees.

Guards with automatic weapons run after him, firing.  The snow

explodes around him with bullet hits.

TWO DOBERMANS pelt toward Harry, leaping at him in perfect

unison.  He waits... and knocks their heads together in mid-

leap with a crack like a baseball bat.  The dogs drop to the

snow, wobbling around like they're drunk.

As Harry sprints on, ANOTHER DOBERMAN lunges out of the bushes

ahead, leaping directly for his throat.  Harry grabs the dog

and shot-puts him up into a tree without breaking stride.  Dog

Fu.  The dog yelps and scrambles to hold onto an icy branch,

looking down in amazement.

Harry leaps down on the outside of the wall, hitting a snow

bank and sliding downhill.  He sprints down the gentle slope

toward the highway.

Harry looks back as TWO GUARDS ON SKIS come out of a guard

station beside the main entrance.

TRACKING WITH THE SKI-GUARDS, searching through the trees with

lights.  They have lost Harry.  They stop.  A snowbank behind

them EXPLODES as Harry leaps out.  He disables them both with

vicious street-fighter moves.  Harry looks upslope as--

A service gate opens in the perimeter wall and TEAMS OF

SECURITY MEN in white snow-suits pour out, some on skis, some

on SNOWMOBILES.  A HELICOPTER rises over the wall in a blast of

swirling snow.  Its xenon lights rake through the trees,

casting lurid wheeling shadows on the snow.

ON Harry, snapping closed the ski boots he has stolen from one

of the disabled guards.  He pops the boots quickly into the

bindings and takes off downhill with one of the guard's FN FAL

rifles slung across his back.

The helicopter swoops downhill, its searchlight blazing through

the forest.  Snowmobile headlights illuminate the ski-patrols

zig-zagging among the trees.

Harry slashes expertly downhill.  He cuts a distinguished

figure in his black tux.  Automatic weapons fire rips through

the trees from behind him.  Harry is going flat-out.  The xenon

light hits him.  A 7.62 mm machine gun in the chopper rips the   *

slope into white clouds around him.  Harry slashes, turns,

weaving among the trees at breakneck speed.  A snowmobile is

closing in, outflanking him.  He turns toward it, suddenly.

Hits a mogul.  Uses the air to slash his skis right across the

rider's face.  The snowmobile crashes and tumbles into the

night.

GIB'S VAN takes an icy turn in a hairy slide.

INSIDE Gib is peering upslope, trying to see what's going on.

All he can see are lights and gunfire.

Suddenly a skier in a black tux launches across the road from

the slope above, RIGHT OVER THE VAN, and lands deftly

downslope.

Behind the van, pursuing guards leap across the road.  Only

about half can make the jump.  The rest crash horribly.  The

helicopter thunders overhead.

Harry sees the chopper start an attack run.  He comes out into

the open, going straight downhill like a rocket.  The chopper

gets suckered in...  trying to hit him, getting right down

behind him... and suddenly-- Harry slides to a stop in an

explosion of powder and whips up the rifle.  P-P-P-POW!  He

rakes a burst across the windshield.  The startled pilot

swerves and-- Suddenly two tall pine trees are right in front

of him.

K-WHACK!  The main-rotor blade snaps clean off and the chopper

drops into the snow, plowing into a snowbank.  It slides right

to the edge of a steep ridge and stops, teetering.

Firing from a snowmobile, one of the guards puts a burst right

across Harry's path.  Harry's skis are hit and he tumbles,

comes out of it...  running down the hill like a juggernaut in

his heavy boots.  He has lost the rifle somewhere in the snow.

Harry takes cover behind the burning wreck of the downed

chopper, which still has its engine running.  The ski patrol

opens fire from upslope.  Rounds whacking against the disabled

helicopter.

Harry looks down the slope and gets an idea.  He jerks the

unconscious pilot out and pushes on the fuselage, rocking it.

It slips over the edge.  He leaps inside as it topples forward

and slides down the slope.

Harry adds throttle and works the footpedals, using the tail-

rotor to steer.  The chopper had snow-skids, and Harry is

skiing the damn thing down the mountain.

The copter is burning as it rockets down the slope on its        *

skids.  Bullets are hitting the fuselage, and everything around

it.  Skiers are wiping out, hitting trees.  A snowmobile hits

a rock and flies spectacularly into a ravine.

Gib slides the van around a curve.

Big is scanning above for the chopper.  Then upslope he sees

the burning fuselage skiing expertly among the trees.

The chopper hits a jump and launches into the air-- It crashes

through trees, still soaring and-- Gib looks up, screaming as--

The chopper drops right toward him-- He hits the brakes and--

BLAMMO!  It drops onto the road ten feet in front of the

skidding van...  then slides over the edge and tumbles into a

rocky canyon where is BLOWS UP!  The fireball lights up the

night.

Gib and Faisil jump out of the van.  They look downslope at the

burning wreckage.

Gib and Faisil spin to look behind them.  Harry is lodged in

tree-branches hanging over the road.  Gib hands his MP-5K        *

machine gun to Faisil and reaches up to Harry, who grabs his     *

hand and pulls.  Harry tumbles down into the snowbank.  He

stands, brushing snow off his tux, and clomps toward the van in

his ski-boots.  He is completely unruffled.

As Faisil is getting into the van behind Harry, TWO GUARD TEAMS

ON SNOWMOBILES roar around the bend behind them, fish-tailing

on the ice.  Faisil OPENS FIRE.  One snowmobile swerves over

the embankment.  The other pulls up broadside, and the guards

duck behind it.  Gib floors it and the van roars down the

mountain.  Faisil is still Ramboing on full-auto.

An American Airlines 747 touches down amid puffs of tire smoke.

A NON-DESCRIPT SEDAN pulls to the curb in a neighborhood of

modest middle-income tract homes.  The street is deserted.  It

is 4 A.M.  Gib is at the wheel, dropping Harry off at his

house.

Harry is emptying his pockets... passport, business cards etc.

All documents under his name "Renquist".  He double checks that

his pants and jacket pockets and empty.  Gib fastidiously puts

the items into a plastic zip-lock.

Gib starts handing him items from a briefcase.  This should all

feel like a tired ceremony between them.

Gib snows him how is snows when you shake it up and turn it

over.

Harry opens the car door.

Gib holds up Harry's gold wedding band.  Harry puts it on.

Harry slips inside.  He sets down his suitcase and walks

quietly down the hall.  He pauses at a door with lurid labels

and stickers plastered all over it (Toxic Waste,  STAY OUT!, IF

IT'S TOO LOUD YOU'RE TOO OLD, etc.)

Harry silently opens the door and looks in at his sleeping

daughter, DANA.  She looks like an angel in the moonlight

coming in the window.  In fact, she is a typical 14 year old

girl, and therefore hardly an angel.  But to Harry she is

unflawed.

Harry, undressed now, slips into bed next to... a lump in the

covers which we presume to be a human being.  This is HELEN

TASKER, Harry's wife of 15 years.  He kisses her on the cheek

and she stirs.  She rolls toward him, giving him a sleepy hug

and a kiss.

As she drifts off, Harry puts his head on the pillow and stares

at the ceiling.

TIGHT ON SWISS VILLAGE.  It is snowing.

ON DANA,  reaching to the present Harry just gave her.

They are in her room, which is your basic room from Hell.

Pearl Jam posters, and an unbelievable clutter of junk,

magazines and cheap jewelry.  Harry kisses her on the cheek, to

which she submits dutifully.  He looks at his watch and heads

for the door.

Harry hurries out and Dana considers the Swiss village a

moment.

She plonks is straight in the wastebasket.

Harry strides down the hall, avoiding their small but            *

incredibly ugly dog, GIZMO, who skitters past him going the      *

other way.

Harry crosses the bedroom, hurrying past Helen who is clearly

rushing to get ready herself.  We get our first good look at

Helen.  She is wearing a terrycloth robe as she picks out an

outfit.  Her hair is wrapped in a towel.  To call her plain

would be inaccurate.  She could be attractive if she put any

effort into it, which doesn't occur to her.

They talk without looking at each other, the way people who

have been together a long time do.

She is already tuning him out.  And it hits us:  SHE HAS NO

IDEA WHAT HARRY REALLY DOES.

Harry glances at her, oblivious to him and brushing her teeth.

He smiles.  The best lies are told with enthusiasm.

Gib opens the door, knocks a bit, then strolls in like he lives

there.  He is wearing dark Ray Bans, like he's doing a Roy

Orbison impression.  Gizmo runs toward him, yapping, but Gib

gives him the evil eye.

The dog backs up, whining plaintively.  Gib throws his jacket

over the back of the couch and then, inexplicably, he takes out

a pack of CAMELS and sets it on the mantelpiece.  He adjusts

its position carefully.  Hmmmm.

Harry  and Helen maneuver around each other expertly.  She is

doing her make-up.

Harry is not really paying attention as he ties his tie in

front of the mirror.  His mind is elsewhere.  He couldn't care

less about there domestic problems.

Harry kisses her on the cheek and exits.

Gib enters and pours two cups of coffee.  Dana is drinking

orange juice from the bottle at the fridge.

She EXITS, eating an uncooked pop-tart.  Harry comes in a

second later and Gib hands him his coffee.

Gib hands Harry the glasses.  Harry studies them, seeing the

VIRTUAL VIDEO DISPLAY inside the left lens of the Ray Bans.

Harry glances down the hall, making sure no-one is looking,

then he puts them on.

HARRY'S POV - INSIDE THE GLASSES - A black and white video

image of his own living room.

IN POV we see Dana enter the living room.  She looks around

carefuly, then quickly lifts Gib's jacket and slips out his

wallet.  She palms two twenties in the blink of an eye and puts

the wallet back.  Pro moves.

Harry whips off the glasses and charges out of the kitchen.

Gib goes after him.

Dana comes out the front door, letting it slam behind her, and

runs to her boyfriend, TRENT, who is waiting for her in the

driveway on his idling YAMAHA.  Trent is 16, dressed in grunge-

rock style, trying to look tough.  Harry comes out the front

door as Trent revs the motor.

She waves from the back of the bike as Trent pops the clutch

and they shoot down the driveway.

They are driving through D.C.  Harry is still shocked by his     *

daughter's behavior.

Gib and Harry turn onto Pennsylvania Avenue, heading toward

Lafayette Square.  Capital Hill is behind them.

Harry and Gib come out of an elevator on the 12th floor.         *

Behind the receptionist is a burnished metal sign which reads    *

TEKTEL SYSTEMS.  They cross a open floor of cubicle spaces.      *

There is the hum of activity everywhere.  A normal day at a      *

normal business.                                                 *

They go into a corridor.                                         *

They stop at a door, like any other along the corridor.  It is   *

blank.                                                           *

Gib touches a plastic card to an unmarked spot just above the    *

doorknob.  There is the CLUNK of a SOLENOID LOCK.                *

They enter a long corridor, which is featureless except for      *

video surveillance cameras.  They walk along the silence for a   *

moment, then .  .  .                                             *

They approach another door, with a (bulletproof) glass window    *

in it.  Beyond is a brightly lit room, with a woman sitting at

a desk... and nothing else.  Gib presses a buzzer.

JANICE sits at the non-descript desk like a receptionist... but

she is a highly trained security specialist.  She is also hefty

through the shoulders, aggressively unattractive and utterly

humorless.  She watches them on a monitor screen as they stand

outside the door.  Harry and Gib appear as living X-Ray images.

Their weapons are visible in their shoulder harnesses.  Janice

puts one hand automatically on the butt of a .45 tucked in a

holster riveted beneath her desk.  She buzzes Harry and Gib in

with the other.

Harry and Gib step up to the combination retinal-thumbprint-

voice scanners.  Harry presses his thumb against a black-glass

plate for laser scan, and looks into the eye-piece of the

retinal scanner.

Their clearance appears on a monitor on Janice's desk.

She stands to give them plastic I.D.  badges which they hang

around their necks.

He kisses her wetly on the cheek as he goes by.  She does not

react is any discernible way.

They pass through a heavy stainless steel door which opens

automatically.  Beyond is a kind of airlock... a SALLY PORT.

Behind a lexan shield are TWO GUARDS armed with MP5s.  They nod

but do not speak at Harry and Gib pass them.

Gib and Harry pass through the inner door of the sally port

into a large austere atrium.

ANGLE FROM ABOVE as they cross.  A huge graphic logo covers the

floor.  Across the center is says OMEGA SECTOR.  In smaller

print, around the perimeter, is the motto: "THE LAST LINE OF

DEFENSE".

They enter a high-tech office space.  It is a maze of glass

partitions surrounding a central floor-space of cubicles.

There is a hushed quality here.  People do not joke.  They do

not hurry.  There are a lot of computer screens displaying

information from around the world.  It looks like a combination

of NASA mission control and FBI headquarters.

Fast Faisil greets them, yawning, as they pass his partitioned

cubicle.

Faisil gulps his coffee and hurries after them.

A dark and severe conference room, with large-screen computer

displays at one end.  Glowering at one end of the long,

polished table, is SPENCER TRILBY, the chief of Omega Sector.

Visualize a cross between Colin Powel and J.  Edgar Hoover.

He hits a button and a photo of Khaled fills a wall-screen.

Faisil hits some buttons and a second screen lights up with the

data for their raid.

It is the interior of a huge law office.  Helen works there as

a paralegal.  She is going to the break room for coffee with

her friend, ALLISON, a secretary.  Allison is black, younger

then Helen, and still single.

Helen's nerdy boss BRAD, comes up behind her, scowling.

Brad leaves.

They both crack up at that one.

Harry meets up with Gib and Faisil coming from the ANALYSIS      *

Department.                                                      *

The following will play as they wind their way through the rows  *

of data-analysis workstations.

Gib starts tangoing with an imaginary partner.

DING!  Harry opens the microwave as his dinner finishes re-

heating.  He sits down alone at the kitchen table and pulls the

Saran-wrap off the plate.  Another solo supper two hours late.

His motions are so automatic we gather that this is the rule,

not the exception.  Helen comes in from the living room,

holding the suspense novel she is reading.

Harry picks up his porkchop and goes out the back door.

A basketball hoop is bolted to the garage and Dana is shooting

baskets in the driveway.  Moths orbit the outside floodlights.

She sinks one, dribbled back to the foul line.  Harry comes up

behind her and lifts the ball out of her hands as she stands

poised to shoot.  She turns.

Dana studies something really fascinating at the end of a

fingernail.

Dana runs into the house, agent.  Hold on Harry, superagent,     *

unable to comprehend the mind of a 14-year-old.  He looks up to  *

see Helen at the backdoor.                                       *

A BLACK LIMO cruises through a morning fill of bright promise.

INSIDE, Gib is at the wheel in a chauffeur's uniform.  He talks

to Harry, riding in the back, without turning.

Harry is extending his business card to the receptionist as

Juno breezes into the lobby from a corridor.  She is dressed

sharply and looks as stunning as Harry remembers.

Juno lingers a second or so long on the handshake.

There is definitely unholy magnetism here.  She indicates for

Harry to walk with her and leads him through the suite of

offices.  There are mounted fragments of ancient sculpture in

niches on either side, and beautifully restored mosaics and

tablets of hieroglyphics mounted on the walls.

Juno leads Harry through a door into a large warehouse area.

There is a bustle of activity as workmen unpack crates.  An

overhead crane is used to move huge stone pieces.  There are

massive columns, and statues two stories high.  Even the entire

facade of a tomb.

They stroll amongst the statues, as coveralled workmen move

around them with tools, scaffolding, pneumatic equipment.  Most

of the workers are middle-eastern.

We realize that A WORKMAN is watching them intently from

nearby.  He is an intense looking MIDDLE-EASTERN MAN in his mid-

thirties.

Juno stops and looks at Harry.  Her smile indicates the

possibility of more than just business.

Harry, Gib and Fast Faisil are in a luxury suite at the MARQUIS

HOTEL.  It is a corner suite, with a spectacular view of the

city.  Faisil is routinely sweeping the room for bugs with an

electronic DETECTOR.

WE FOLLOW the WORKMAN we saw watching Harry earlier.  He

catches up with Juno, who is going through the doors to the

office area.  His name is MALIK.

His manner is self-effacing.  Humble.  He doesn't meet her

gaze.  She nods and they go into the private office.

MALIK comes in behind her and closes the door.  The moment they

are away from public observation, his manner changes.  His

humble posture straightens and his eyes flash intensely as he

approaches her.  Without warning he SLAPS HER HARD ACROSS THE

FACE.

Her jaw clenches but her reaction is surprisingly submissive.

Malik slaps her again.

Juno bites her lip.

The phone rings on the desk of CHARLENE, Harry's secretary at    *

Tektel Systems, the permanent front-company for Omega Sector.    *

Helen is in the kitchen, showing Dana how to put icing on a

large birthday cake.

Charlene doesn't hesitate a microsecond.

She punches a key, engaging a digital scrambler and connecting

to--

A PHONE RINGS.  Gib opens his briefcase and looks at the

console of the cellular scrambler-phone inside.  The display

reads TEKTEL/CALLER ID POS -- TASKER, HELEN.                     *

Harry picks up the phone.  INTERCUT THE FOLLOWING WITH HELEN.

RING.  Harry raises an eyebrow as he answers.

Harry hangs up.  Gib, checking his watch, has a look like he's

got a bad gas pain.

A WORKMAN guides Harry through the maze of statuary.  He points

toward the back of the warehouse and then leaves.  Harry is

left alone in the vast space.

Only a few lights are on, rendering the place somewhat Gothic.

Harry strolls in the direction the workman pointed.  Ahead of

him, is the huge facade of a royal tomb.  There is a flickering

light inside.  A shadow moves across the wall in the entryway.

He enters the stone doorway of the tomb.  FOLLOWING HARRY as he

steps into the inner chamber.  There is an oil-lamp burning on

a stone sarcophagus, the only light.  The room appears empty.

REVERSE ON HARRY.  Behind him a figure emerges from a shadowed

alcove.  It is Juno.  She looks ethereal in the strange light.

Harry whips around, startled.

Juno turns to him in the flickering half-light.  She moves

closer.  Her eyes seem to glitter.

She is very close to him.  Her eyes seem to glitter in the

light from the oil lamp.  She is unbelievably beautiful.

Gib is sitting in the car, in the shadows, up the street...

with his earphone in place.  Listening.

Juno picks up the lamp and walks along the wall, holding it up

so that the flickering shadows seem to bring the bas-relief

figures to life.  Stone faces shift and change, stone eyes

move.

Juno presses her cheek against the cold stone.  She runs her

fingers slowly across the figures.  It is strange and erotic.

She crosses to Harry.

She puts her hands on him and pulls herself close.  It is a

hypnotic moment.

She kisses him, very lightly, with infinite sensuality.

Harry breaks the kiss... slowly pulling back.

Juno is moving in for a more passionate lip-lock when-- BEEP

BEEP BEEP!!  Harry pulls his beeper off his hip and looks at

it.  The moment is spoiled.

Gib lets out a big exhale of relief.  He looks at his watch.

Helen and Dana are sitting expectantly at the dining room

table.  There is a big cake, and presents piled on the buffet.

The food is getting cold.  Helen looks at her watch.

Harry is changing clothes, getting ready to be Harry Tasker      *

again, as Gib drives through evening traffic.  Gib keeps

checking the rearview.

Harry adjusts the passenger side mirror.

There are three men in the car.  YUSIF and MAHMOUD are in the

front, with Mahmoud driving.  In the back, shadowed, we can

just make out ABU MALIK.  Yusif is massively built, with a body

like a beer-keg.  Mahmoud is skinny and intense.

Harry puts his SUB-VOCAL TRANSCEIVER into his ear canal.

Gib pulls the car to the curb near the mall entrance.  Half a

block behind them the station wagon does the same.  Harry slips

on the virtual-image sunglasses and gets out of the car.

Harry pauses on the sidewalk a moment to light a cigarette.  He

coughs slightly.

Harry lets his hand drop to his side, holding the pack of

cigarettes casually.  He turns his hand.  The tiny lens in the

cigarette pack glints.

POV VIDEO SCREEN --inside the left lens of the glasses.  The

camera in the cigarette pack reveals Yusif and Mahmoud getting

out of their cars, crossing the street half a block away.

HARRY strolls into the mall.  It is an open promenade design,

with a moderate crowd of shoppers and movie-goers.  Harry

watches in the glasses as Mahmoud and Yusif slip through the

crowd behind him.

Gib looks in the rearview, studying the car behind him.

All Gib can see is a silhouette in the car.  A soft cherry

glow, the tip of a cigarette in the dark.  No features.

Harry turns off the main concourse, into a narrower walkway

between shops.  In the video-glasses he watches Yusif and

Mahmoud, who have split up to look less conspicuous, as they

track him through the pedestrian traffic.

Gib in on the cellular phone.

As he is talking he sees that a bus has blocked his view of the

station wagon.

She sighs fatalistically.

Helen hangs up the phone just as Dana strides through the room,

putting on a jacket and heading for the front door.

We see the hurt in her eyes.  She doesn't hate her father.  She

just misses him.

Dana runs out the kitchen by the other door.  Helen runs

after her.

The slamming door is her answer.

Yusif sees Harry, up ahead, enter a public restroom.  He

signals Mahmoud with his eyes and the two of them close in on

the restroom.

Gib hangs up the car-phone.  Ten the bus blocking his view

finally pulls away and Gib see that the station wagon is

empty.  No silhouette.

Harry can't answer because Mahmoud just entered the room behind

him.  Harry is at one of the urinals, apparently taking a leak.

Mahmoud goes to the mirror.  Starts combing his hair.  He

doesn't much notice the pack of Camels sitting on the counter

nearby.  Harry is whistling.  Shaking himself.

HARRY'S POV - In the video glasses Harry sees himself and

Mahmoud.  Yusif comes into the restroom, seemingly ignoring

both Harry and Mahmoud, as if heading for the stalls.  As he

passes behind Harry he reaches into his coat--

Harry spins lightning fast.  He knocks away the SILENCED PISTOL

aimed at the back of his head with a sweeping block, capturing

Yusif's arm in an arm-lock.  The shot goes wide, shattering a

urinal.

Harry slams his palm into Yusif's face like a piledriver, and

spins him against the steel stalls.  The silenced pistol goes

skittering across the floor.

Mahmoud whips a pistol out of his waistband.  Still holding the

bear-like Yusif, Harry draws his Glock so fast we can barely

see him move.  BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  Three .45 slugs  go through

Mahmoud's chest, shattering the mirror behind him.  He flops on

his butt, slumping against the wall.

Yusif, who is easily Harry's size, bellows and grabs his gun

arm.  They smash against the walls, struggling for the gun.

Yusif, locked to Harry, hurls him against the stalls.  They hit

a locked door, which pops open, banging inward.

Yusif drives Harry to the floor.  Harry's head is between the

shoes of an OLD GUY sitting on the can, who looks down

uncomprehendingly at him.

Yusif slams Harry's gun hand repeatedly against the doorframe

of the stall.  He twists Harry's wrist brutally.  He even

pounds against Harry's hand with his knee.  The old guy winces.

That's got to hurt.  Harry cries out in pain and the gun drops.

Yusif reaches for it, but Harry kicks it under the stalls.

He punches Yusif in the face, driving him back.  They grapple,

spinning.  Harry drives Yusif's head into the counter.  Then he

elbows him in the throat and they crash together on the filthy

floor.  Harry grabs Yusif's hair and pounds his face repeatedly

against the rim of a urinal.  In case you haven't noticed, this

is a messy, nasty fight.  Survival is like that.

Yusif sags into submission.  Harry pulls a nylon zip-strip out

of his pocket and uses it like hand-cuffs, securing Yusif's

wrists.

Gib is running full out, drawing his gun.  He has one finger

jammed in his ear.  His gut is doing the rumba as he runs.

Harry is pulling Yusif to his feet when the door bangs open

behind him.  He turns, thinking it is Gib.  It's not.  Malik

raises a FULL-AUTO BERETTA 92-F and opens fire.  Harry spins

Yusif between him and the machine pistol.  Yusif's beer-keg

body stops the spray of 9mm slugs form hitting Harry long

enough for him to dive into a stall.

Malik hoses the room with the Beretta.  The metal stalls are

riddled with hits.

HARRY is in the stall with the old guy, who's just sitting

there.  The walls of the stall are pimpling with the hits on

the far side.  Harry reaches under the stall, retrieving his

Glock.

MALIK goes empty.  Harry hears that and pops out, cranking off

rounds--

Malik is a blur going out the door, as Harry's shots shatter

tiles on the doorframe.  Then silence.

MOVING WITH MALIK, who backs rapidly away from the restroom,

reloading.

Malik spins to see Gib nearby, going into a firing stance

behind a light-standard.  The terrorist doesn't hesitate.  His

Beretta ROARS at 900 rounds per minute.

Gib tries to hide behind the light-standard, which is about

half as wide as he is.  Shots hit all around him, shattering

window glass behind him.  His stomach sticks out from behind

the pole.  He sucks it in. Now his butt is sticking out on the

other side.  Shots clang into the steel column, and riddle

everything behind him.

Just when it looks like Gib is going to get a 9mm tummy tuck,

Malik turns and sprints away, through shocked pedestrians.

Harry runs out of the restroom, trying for a shot, but there

are too many people in the line of fire and Malik knows it.

Gib nods and heads the other way as Harry takes off after

Malik.  Malik is fast and vicious.  He hurls people out of the

way, sending shoppers sprawling.  Harry is ruthless in his

pursuit.  They pound through the mall and out onto the street--

Malik sprints straight into traffic.  A car screeches, not

stopping in time... Malik goes right over the hood.  Harry

leaps over the hoods of cars after him.  Malik sees Harry

coming after him like a juggernaut.

He turns and sees a MOTORCYCLIST coming down the street,

accelerating from a right-turn.  Malik runs at him, clothes-

lining him right off the bike.  The terrorist picks up the

nimble little Kawasaki 250, which is still running, and leaps

on.  He pops the clutch and takes off.  Harry pounds after him

like a locomotive.  He sees Malik turn, taking the bike path

into a large PARK.  Harry cuts into the park on a diagonal.

ON HARRY, running.  Ahead is a MOUNTED COP.  Harry doesn't

break stride, heading right for the cop on the horse.  The cop

turns, surprised, a split second before-- Harry pulls him off

the horse and slams him to the ground (he's wearing a helmet).

Harry is in the saddle and galloping after Malik before the cop

can get his gut out of the holster to stop him.

MALIK roars through the park on the Kawasaki.  He looks back,

amazed to see Harry charging after him on a horse.  They

scatter joggers and bicyclists, people walking their dogs.

TRACKING WITH THEM as they rocket through the park.  Malik

leaves the winding path and goes straight through the trees.

Harry charges through some rollerbladers who go sprawling.

Malik fires his Beretta straight back at Harry, emptying it.

He drops the pistol and crouches over the bike, twisting the

last bit of throttle out of it.  They are going flat out,

through the trees, in a kinetic blur.

Gib, panting and heaving, pulls his car into traffic.  The Unit

Seven car pulls out as well, up the block.

Harry is legging the police horse hard.  He has his reigns in

one hand, his Glock in the other.  It's the wild west.

Harry leaps a park bench like he's in a steeple chase.

Gib is weaving furiously through traffic.  He slides into a

turn.

ON GIB, mouthing "Your horse?"

Malik explodes through the bushes and out onto the street.

Cars skid around him, out of control.  He turns south.  Weaving

through traffic.  Harry leaps the hedgerow behind Malik and

gallops among the spun-out cars.  He goes right over the hood

on one which is blocking his path.  The driver ducks as the

horse's hoof cracks the windshield.

Up ahead traffic is stopped, jammed tight at a light.  Malik

goes into the oncoming traffic lanes, which are empty.  Gib's

car slides around the corner in a blare of horns and comes

barrelling down the street toward him.  Gib cranks the wheel

the slides the car broadside, blocking both lanes.  Malik locks

up the brakes and the bike slides to a stop.  Then the

terrorist pops the clutch and wheels the bike around-- Jumping

the curb and going straight at the entrance of THE HYATT

REGENCY HOTEL.

Bellmen and guests scatter as the bike roars right at them.

The sliding doors and opening for a bellman coming out with

bags and Malik blasts past him into the lobby.

HARRY ducks, galloping through the doors after him.

Acres of marble and red carpet.  Liveries porters.  Guests

dressed for evening, the men in suits, diamonds on the women.

And sudden pandemonium as Malik roars through the lobby, with

Harry charging along behind him.  Malik guns it across the

lounge, knocking over tables.  He gets air at the top of  the

steps going up to the RESTAURANT.

Harry swerves to avoid a panicking guest and finds himself

careening toward the JAZZ QUARTET at a full gallop.  He gathers

the animal and LEAPS (in glorious SLOW MOTION) over the

bassist, who is diving for the carpet.  Harry and horse land

deftly and then he urges his mount right up the steps after

Malik.

Malik roars between the tables, looking around wildly for a way

out.  Harry charges in, ducking to avoid the chandelier.

Waiters, trays, dinners, tables... everything seems to be

flying at once as people dive out of the way.

MALIK skids out into the main hall by another door, and sees--

the ELEVATORS.  The door is just closing on one of them.  He

guns it and slides through the doors.

HARRY RIDES out of the restaurant in time to catch a glimpse of

Malik as the doors close.

Harry canters the horse into the next elevator, which has just

been boarded by an older couple.  He has to practically lie

down on the horse to fit through the door.  The animal barely

fits, nose to tail, in what turns out to be--

A GLASS ELEVATOR with a view of the whole atrium of the hotel

as it rises, right to the top of the building.  Harry looks

through the glass at the elevator car next to him, fifteen feet

away.  Malik is inside, punching a button.  He glances up and

sees Harry.  There eyes meet for a moment, just before Malik's

car ascends rapidly.  Malik's malevolent glare is etched on

Harry's retinas.

The older couple is jammed against the side-wall by Harry's

panting, snorting horse.  It clomps around the tight elevator.

The woman is trying to crawl between her husband and the wall.

The man nods mutely and complies.  Their elevator takes off,

rising after Malik's.

Gib runs in with Faisil and Keough.  They follow the path of

destruction, growing more and more amazed.  Gib yells to one of

the porters.

The porter points at the elevators.

Harry has slid off the horse to get next to the control panel.

He can look up at an angle and see Malik in the car above him.

His thumb hovers over the emergency stop button.  If Malik gets

out at any floor, Harry will have a moment to react and stop.

Malik can look down and see this.  He knows Harry's got him.

He just keeps going, floor after floor, using the time to

think.

The older woman is still just staring, trying not to breathe.

The horse flicks her in the face with his tail.

The rooftop has a spectacular view of the city.  TRACKING WITH   *

Malik as he comes out of the elevator, rides to the far edge of  *

the roof and slides to a stop.  He looks  down twenty stories.

THE SECOND ELEVATOR  arrives.  The doors part and Harry comes    *

out, with his Glock poised and ready.  He sees Malik revving     *

his bike.  The terrorist brodies the bike into a fast one-

eighty and speeds back toward the edge of the roof.  Amazingly,

he increases speed, ROARING RIGHT OFF THE EDGE,  ARCING THE

BIKE SUICIDALLY OUT INTO SPACE!

Harry rides to the edge in time to see Malik, on his bike,

CLEAR A 60 FOOT JUMP and SPLASH INTO THE ROOFTOP POOL of a       *

LOWER BUILDING next to the hotel!

Harry is out of control now, seeing the guy setting away.  He

wheels his mount and charges across the roof to get some

running space.  Then he turns again, back toward the edge Malik

jumped from.  He kicks the horse's flanks and yells HAAHH!!

The horse's hoofs thunder on the roof as they go full tilt

toward the edge.

But a horse is not a motorcycle.  It is slightly smarter.  It

slams its front hoofs down together, stopping suddenly.  Harry

goes right over its head.  He flies forward, almost going right

off the roof.  He slams to the edge, with his legs dangling

over, holding onto a piece of pipe with one hand.  His Glock

tumbles down into darkness.

Harry sees Malik far below, climb out of the pool, running to

the roof door of the other building.  Getting away.  Harry

clambers up onto his own roof, breathing hard.  He walks over

to the horse.

He looks into the horse's innocent brown eyes.  Pats its neck

fondly.

Helen is asleep at the dining room table next to a half-eaten

cake and some melted ice cream.  His unopened presents are

piled at one end of the table.  She raises her head as Harry

enters sheepishly.

He goes to her and puts his arms around her.  He is tender with

her.  He wishes he can tell her the truth.

Helen finds a smile for him somewhere.  She really does love

him, though more and more often lately she finds her heart in

pain.

She grins and arches one eyebrow meaningfully.

Helen walks Harry to the edge of the bed and sits him down.

She puts her hand on his chest and pushes, causing him to lie

back.

She turns on the stereo.  A Kenny G disc she put in there

earlier.  Soft tenor sax flows around the room.  Helen enters

the BATHROOM and shuts the door partway.  She opens a cupboard

and quickly pulls out some things she hid there earlier.  A

bottle of champagne on ice.  Two glasses.  Some trashy

lingerie.

Helen is hurrying to put on the unfamiliar lingerie.  G-string

panties and low-cut bra.  She holds up the garter belt, turning

it backward and forward, trying to figure out which way it

goes.

ON HARRY, yawning.  Lying with the ease of years of practice.

Helen is pulling up the black stockings.  She fastens the

garters to the tops.  Her features are a scowl of

concentration.  She is very earnest in her preparations.

Red lipstick.  Then she puts a little perfume on her wrists.

Harry doesn't answer.  Helen puts a little perfume down the

front of her panties.

Helen quickly pours two glasses of champagne.  Then she slinks

around the doorframe, making her entrance.  She looks like a

living 900 number.  Helen stands before the bed, looking down,

holding the champagne glasses.

ON HARRY: sprawled on the bed, fully clothed, snoring softly.

A little bit of drool is coming out the side of his mouth.

HOLD ON HELEN, all dressed up with no place to go.  She gazes

down at him, her shoulders slumping.

She sighs deeply and downs her champagne in one long gulp.

It is the following morning.  Harry and Gib are staked out

watching the front of Dana's school.  Actually, Harry is staked

out, scanning the crowds of kids with binoculars.

Gib just keeps looking at his watch.  He picks up a cellular

phone and pretends to call the office.

HARRY'S POV THROUGH BINOCULARS - We see Dana come out to the

curb and meet Trent, who pulls up on his bike.  She gets on

behind him, adjusts her walkman headphones over her ears and he

launches out into traffic.

Harry, who is behind the wheel, pulls out after her.  Trent

weaves radically through the light traffic, going in between

the cars.

Harry speeds up.  Somebody honks as he cuts them off to stay

with Trent.

ON DANA AND TRENT as she looks back and sees Harry following

her.  She is mortified that her father is actually tailing her

Trent downshifts and punches it.  The nimble little bike

screams as it zips between cars.

BACK ON TRENT, who's actually a really good rider.  He zig-zags

through the cars, cutting between them at the next light where

Gib and Harry get blocked.  He cuts a sharp right turn and

disappears.

Harry is stuck in stopped traffic.  He pounds the wheel in

frustration.

Harry is sitting at a computer workstation, lit by the monitor

screen.  Gib and Faisil look on as he clicks through HEADSHOTS

of known terrorists.  CLICK.  CLICK.  CLICK.  Harry is very

focussed.  He stops.  He goes back one.  Studies the face.

A defiant looking Syrian with a full beard.

HARRY holds up his hand, blocking out the beard, concentrating

on the eyes.

Harry slaps photos down in front of Trilby.

The agents look at the headlines:  WILD WEST CHASE.  Harry and

Gib wince.

Harry and Gib pull to the curb in front of the building.

Harry gets out of the car and turns back, leaning in the door

to talk to Gib.

Harry enters the office of Helen's firm.  He stops at

reception.

He smiles and breezes past her before she has a chance to

object.

TRACKING WITH HARRY as he moves through the offices.  He passes

through a library-like maze of records stacks.  Through them he

can see Helen at her desk.  But as he approaches, still

concealed, ALLISON puts a call on hold and whips around to

Helen.

Helen, normally the image of composure, goes suddenly fluttery

and nervous as a high-school girl.  She takes the phone,

turning away from Allison.

Helen glimpses Allison with her ears cocked and gives her a

scowl and a shooing motion.  Allison turns away, grinning.

ON HARRY, behind the stacks, reacting.  He silently mouths

"SIMON?!"

She hangs up, a little flushed.  Then turns to Allison.

Helen grabs her purse and rushes out, going right past the

stack where Harry is standing, dumbfounded.  He looks like he

was slammed in the stomach with a lead pipe.  His whole like is

unravelling.

Gib sees Harry crossing the street, holding his stomach.  He

seems dazed.  He is not so much walking to the car as wandering

in its general direction.  He stops, in the street.  Gib gets

out of the car and rushes to him.  He pulls him out of the path

of a bus which is HONKING irritably.

Harry leans against the car for support.

Harry's best friend in the world brightens with the news.  He

slaps him on the back.

Harry wheels around on Gib, grabbing him by the lapels, and

slams him against the car.

We see in Harry's rage, frustration, and hurt confusion a

vulnerability we never expected to see.

Harry sags.  His friend is right.  Gib opens the car door and

helps him in like an invalid, talking soothingly the whole time--

Gib gets in and starts the car, full of stoic cheer for Harry.

Harry and Gib are in the LISTENING ROOM.  Banks of tape-decks

recording calls, rows of technicians in cubicles processing and

collating transcripts.

He notices Harry is not listening.

Gib gives Harry a stricken look, and glances around nervously.

He pulls him into an empty office.

Harry grabs him and rams him up against the wall, his teeth

clenched.

Harry releases him and turns away.  Gib straightens his jacket,

looking at his friend like he's completely losing it.

That night Harry is actually there on time for dinner.  He

glances at Dana, who has been eyeing him warily.  She looks at

her peas.

Harry takes a bite of his food, watching her.  Silence.  Helen

glances at him.

She is a too casual, masking her nervousness.

Harry watches her lying to him with some amazement.  You can

see the jaw muscles clenching.

Dana bolts.  She has eaten about four bites.  Harry sits at the

table, alone.  He feels isolated, knowing that everybody is

lying to everybody else.  He is a man without a center, lost.

TRACKING ALONG THE BANK OF RECORDERS.  Harry comes to a

particular set of machines.  He reaches past the technician and

picks up the hard-copy of the transcripts.

ON HARRY walking and leafing through the phone transcripts.

Gib watches him through a glass partition, shaking his head

slowly.  Harry freezes, staring at the page and WE HEAR THE

SOUND OF THE CONVERSATION OVERLAID:

A man in his mid-thirties, sitting in a car SOMEPLACE (DAY),

speaks into a cellular phone.  This is SIMON.  He is dark

haired, and fairly good-looking in an off-beat way.  He is

unshaven and his clothes look slept in.  He glances around in

a furtive manner.

NOW WE SEE HELEN, at her office.

The last line is played ON HARRY, reading.  Now he is seeing

the proof in black and white.  He slowly crumples the paper in

one hand, his expression dark.

Helen is reading in bed.  She glances up as Harry comes into

the room.  Gives  him a quick smile.  Too quick.

Harry watches her smoothly lying to him.  It's surreal to him.

He surreptitiously picks up Helen's purse from a dresser and     *

goes into the hall.                                              *

THE FRONT DOOR OPENS and Harry comes out, walking Gizmo on a     *

leash.  Harry walks briskly along the sidewalk, jerking the

poor dog along twice as fast as his little legs will go.         *

He reaches Gib's car, half a block up, and hands him Helen's     *

purse.  Gib eyes the dog warily.  He growls at it.  Gizmo hides  *

behind Harry's legs.

Harry holds up one finger.  His eyes and expression are so

intense, Gib just soft of trails off.

TIGHT ON THE PURSE sitting on the seat next to her as Helen

drives through the city.

Harry drives while Gib watches--

A COMPUTERIZED MAP below the dash.  Helen's purse appears as a

moving blip on a street-map of the city.

Harry makes the turn.

Up ahead they see Helen's RED ACCORD pulling into a parking low

next to a CAFE.  Harry parks the car a block away and gets out

his binoculars.

HARRY'S POV through the scope.  Helen gets out of her car and

looks around as she walks to the cafe.  It is not a nervous

look, but it is clear she is making sure she is not followed.

She goes inside.

Gib hits a switch and they hear the clamor of the cafe at lunch

rush come over a speaker.

The restaurant is nothing fancy.  A little dark.  Helen makes

her way to a booth in the back.  Sitting in the shadows, facing

the door, is SIMON.  She sits down opposite him.  He doesn't

smile or kiss her in greeting, but glances around the room like

he expects a threat to leap out at any moment.

Simon creates an atmosphere of danger.  His haggardness give

him an air of mystery and desperation.

Harry and Gib turn to each other, shocked with the dawning

awareness.

Harry waves his hand, silencing Gib.

INTERCUT FROM HERE ON BETWEEN HARRY/GIB AND HELEN/SIMON.

SIMON puts a newspaper on the table, sliding it over to Helen.

HARRY AND GIB react, realizing that it is the story of their

operation gone awry.

Harry starts to get it.  Then is dawns on Gib.

HELEN LEANS CLOSE TO SIMON.  She clearly is hanging on his

every word.

HARRY REACTS to the outrageous fabrication.

BUT HELEN is eating it up.

HARRY AND GIB guffaw.  This is too much.

Harry shoot him a hard look.                                     *

BACK TO HELEN AND SIMON as she leans even closer.

PAGES 66-67 OMITTED                                              *

Simon is cruising in the Corvette with the radio blasting.

Thinking he is supercool.

Simon pulls into a used car lot, which is a run-down place.  A

hodge-podge of makes and models, a few that might aspire to be

classics.

Simon backs the Vette into an open space on the front line.  He

reaches into the back seat and pulls out a dayglo sign showing

the SALE PRICE of the car.  He sticks it back on the dash.  The

car doesn't even belong to him!

Harry and Gib pull up.  They watch as Simon jumps out of the

Vette and goes into the sales office.

Harry's eyes are slitted down lethally as he stares across the

street.

TIGHT ON A TAPE PLAYER, with Simon's hand adjusting the volume.

The sound of traffic noise and middle-eastern music blares from

the deck.

PULL BACK to see Simon on the phone, talking loud, as if over

the din of a real place.

During this, the owner of the place, DOUG WURTZ, has come out

of the back room and looked out at the lot.  What Doug sees is--

HARRY, browsing among the cars.

DOUG turns from the window and bears down on Simon, who sees

him coming and speeds up his rap.

Doug grabs the phone out of his hand and slams it in the

cradle.

Simon bounces jauntily up to Harry, talking before he's even

reached him.

Simon opens the passenger door and sits Harry inside, then runs

around the car.  He leaps over the closed door into the

driver's seat and starts the car.

Simon swings the car out onto the boulevard, kicking back.

Simon gives Harry a big grin.  Harry returns a knowing chuckle.

Ha ha.

Simon laughs.  Harry laughs.  A big lusty, male-bonding kind of

laugh.

How do you grin warmly while your eyes are so cold?  Ask Harry.

Simon is holding court.  Over tacos, he waxes eloquent on his

greatest area of expertise.  We see Harry laughing, going along

with the guy.  Pretending to bond.

Simon leans forward, conspiratorially.

They are cruising along, with Harry driving this time.

Unconsciously, Harry's hands clench the wheel tighter.

Harry takes a corner too fast.  The tires squealing.

When Simon is looking, Harry is open and encouraging...  they

laugh together... then when he looks away Harry goes snake-

eyed.  He could kill Simon with one punch.  He's visualizing

his wife getting porked by this guy.

They laugh together.  Harry's laugh is getting a bit brittle.

He speeds up, his knuckles white on the wheel.  Now for the big

question: HAVE THEY OR HAVEN'T THEY?

Harry comes barrelling into the lot at forty.  He cranks the

wheel and hits the emergency brake, slewing the car into a

smoking bootlegger-180.  It screeches backward, sliding right

into its parking space perfectly.

Simon is bugeyed.  But he is non-plussed for only about two

seconds.  Then he's back to selling.  He scrambles out and goes

around to Harry, coughing in the cloud of tire smoke.

Simon grins and winks.

Dana is in the living room, watching TV when she sees her

mother cross through, dressed to go out.

Dana is momentarily puzzled by the reversal of roles.

ON HELEN, checking herself in the hall mirror.  She looks at

her big dowdy purse.  Hating it suddenly.  She pulls her

pocketbook out and rummages on the top shelf of the hall closet

for a small handbag, then charges out.

Harry is driving.  Gib pulls a sheaf of pages out of his

briefcase and hands them to him.

Keeping one eye on the road, Harry riffles through the sheets.

He glances at the top of the last couple of sheets.  He scowls.

Then SUDDENLY SLAMS ON THE BRAKES.  The car dives to the curb,

bumping one wheel.  Harry gets out and charges around to Gib's

side.  Gib gets out, his expression blank.

Harry hammers his fist against the car-window right next to

Gib.  It explodes inward in a shower of glass.

He fishes a crumples sheet of paper out of his pocket.  Harry

grabs it from him, straightening it.

As Harry begins to read, we go into FLASHBACK.

ON SIMON - He is talking into the phone in hushed, urgent

tones.

INTERCUT WITH HELEN at her office.

BACK TO THE PRESENT.  Harry checks his watch.                    *

He jumps back in the car and activates the GPS locator.

Helen's purse-blip flashes on the grid map.

Harry growls and slams the car into gear, roaring out into

traffic.  Horns honk as he cuts off people.  He is oblivious.

He grabs his rover.

Harry drives on, ignoring him.  Gib grabs his shoulder, shaking

him.

Harry turns to him.  His glare could melt metal.  Gib gives a

fatalistic shrug.

Harry makes the turn, squealing tires.

Helen pulls  her car under the bridge.  She checks her watch.

Helen notices that her hand is shaking.  She looks around and    *

the place seems deserted.  She is about to leave when she sees

headlights flash briefly in the shadows.

A red-and-white Vette emerges from the darkness and pulls up

next to her.  Simon motions for her to get in quickly.

LONGSHOT  on Simon and Helen in the Vette, coming out of the

parking low under the bridge.  We are watching them through a

sophisticated telephoto night-vision device.

Agent MORTON lowers the SCOPE and picks up his rover.  He puts   *

the car in gear to follow.

Simon makes a show of checking the mirrors.

He pushes her head down onto his lap.  She crouches there, with

her cheek against his thigh.  He's cruising along, loving it.

Gib is trying to watch the computerized city map on the screen,

but Harry keeps cornering so fast he loses his place.

Harry is doing a jaw-clenched slow burn.

It is a highway heading away from the city.  IN A LONG LENS

SHOT, the Vette appears over the brow of a hill.  A moment

later A HELICOPTER rises up behind them, A DRAMATIC REVEAL.  It

follows the Vette.

CUT TO: INFRARED VIEW of the Vette, from the helicopter's FLIR

system.  The greenish, image-intensified view of the car is

like daylight.

He clears a place for her on the bed, shoving clothes and

magazines out of the way.  She sits down and he tops off her

glass from the wine bottle.

The agents have gathered behind a billboard.  Harry, Gib and     *

the other three agents have donned black jumpsuits.  They

finish fitting battle-harnesses, then they grab black ski-       *

masks.  They don them in perfect unison.  Commando precision.

Harry leads off and they quick-time from behind the billboard,

closing in on Simon's trailer.

Helen looks up at Simon and nods slowly.

Simon shoots over and sits next to her, taking her hand.

He moves a little closer.  Casting his spell.

He puts his hand on her knee.  She tenses up instantly.

He puts his other arm around her shoulders and pulls her slowly

into a kiss.  This doesn't seem real to Helen.  She finds

herself not pulling away.  He lowers her slowly until they are

lying together on the bed.

He slides his hand up her thigh.  The fingers, stroking in

little circles, slips under her skirt.  And--

She suddenly EXPLODES, pushing on his chest, forcing him up off

her.

Simon struggles with her.  She gets one knee up under him and

levers him up.  She pushes him to a standing position.  She

sits up on the bed, straightening her skirt.

He looks forlorn and pathetic.  Now he's going to try

pleading...

KABOOM!!  The back wall of the trailer is blown outward by tiny

shaped-charges.  The concussion throws Simon forward on top of

her.  Five BLACK-SUITED FIGURES swarm in, carrying machine

pistols and flashlights.

Lit by the beam of the flashlight, he sees Simon on top of

Helen, her knees up on either side of his hips.  It looks bad.

Simon and Helen sit up... stunned.  They look like two rabbits

in the headlights of a truck.  She screams.

Reacting as all his years of bullshit have suddenly

materialized as a nightmarish reality.  He is stunned.

Blinking, mouth hanging open.

WHAT SIMON SEES -- Five demonic figures, backlit by the XENON

LIGHT from a helicopter.  Smoke and dust swirling in the rotor-

wash.  The figures lunge toward them, grabbing them both.

Helen struggles fiercely as Gib (disguised) pulls her up.

Harry yanks Simon to his feet.

Gib comes out first with Helen.  She struggles like a wildcat,

frankly surprising the hell out of Harry.  Simon is brought

out, dazed and compliant.  Helen whips around, KNEEING GIB

right in the balls.  Gib OOPHS and doubles over, and Helen runs

for it.

Harry leaves Simon with the other agents and runs after Helen.

She sprints through the trees, Harry pounding after her.  He

grabs her and gets her in a headlock.  She bites the hell out

of his arm.  Harry yells and lets her go, just as-- Keough runs

up and matter-of-factly clips her on the head with his weapon.

Standard operating procedure.  Which is why he can't understand

why Harry punches him, knocking him down.

Harry supports a sagging Helen, gesturing sharply to the other

agents and going RRRRR-RRRR to make his point (since he can't

talk without her recognizing his voice).  They head for the

cars.

An empty room with a single stool under a light, and a large

two-way mirror.  The door opens and Helen is escorted in by

Keough, still wearing his jumpsuit.  Helen has a black hood

over her head.  Keough undoes a pair of handcuffs, freeing her,

then leaves quickly.

Helen whips the hood off and blinks in the light.  She wheels

at the sound of the door locking and runs to it.  Pulls twice

on the handle, without effect.  She crosses to the mirror and

peers at her reflection, trying to see if anyone is there on

the other side.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE GLASS is a dark chamber.  We see Helen

perfectly, peering in, though she sees nothing.  Harry and Gib,

in silhouette, sit at a console.  Harry speaks into a

microphone.

ON HELEN'S SIDE of the mirror we hear Harry's voice shifted by

a DIGITAL PROCESSOR.  It is a cold booming mechanical voice.

Harsh and inhuman.

INSIDE THE CONTROL room we can see Harry, Gib and, through the

glass, Helen.  Their voices sound normal on this side.

Harry scowls at Gib in the dark.  Helen flushes, remembering.

FLASHBACK SEQUENCE:

We see Helen sitting at table at a mall near where she works,

having a cappucino and a croissant.

Simon appears behind her, sort of stalking up to her.  He

approaches quickly the last few steps and slips into the seat

next to her.  His manner is furtive.  He keeps looking around,

as if for hidden assasins.  He hands her a briefcase.

He seems to suddenly spot something OFF CAMERA and dashes off

the other way.

Helen walks back to her office building, carrying the

briefcase.  She keeps looking over her shoulder.

She has the briefcase on her desk while she works.  She keeps

glancing at it as she types.  Finally she hunches over it and

starts picking the locks with a paper clip.

TIGHT ON SECOND LOCK, popping open.

ON HELEN as she opens the case.  She gasps.

INSIDE THE CASE are the following items:  A tiny camera, some

loose tapes, some circuit diagrams, some transcripts that look

like gibberish which must be ENCRYPTED, some street maps of

Beirut, Rome and Berlin, and a Walther P.P.K.  PISTOL.  Helen,

eyes wide, closes the case.

Helen shrugs, finishing up her story.

Through the trees is a sweeping view across the Potomac to

Georgetown and Embassy Row.  Helen is sitting on a park bench

when Simon shows up, sitting beside her.  She hands him the

briefcase.

CLOSE ON SIMON, looking right into her eyes.

Harry shakes his head and rubs his eyes, picturing the whole

thing.

Harry cuffs him on the shoulder.  Signals with a scowl for him

to stay out of it.  Gib smirks.  Harry's put him through enough

shit the last couple of days, it's time for a couple digs.

Helen glowers at the mirror.  Her hands are shaking and she

hates it that they can probably see she is afraid.

Harry covers the mike and whips around on Gib.

Helen searches herself for the explanation.

In verbalizing it she just feels smaller, more pathetic that

she ever did.  She hates the unseen voices for making for try

to explain her deepest, unvoiced needs.

Gib looks at Harry, eyebrows raised.  Whew!  Harry is studying

his wife like she's some fantastic new species.

Helen loses it.  It is fury and fear, tears and rage all at

once--

She picks up her stool and charges toward the mirror, swinging

it with all her might.  It bounces off harmlessly.

WHAM!  She hits the mirror again.

WHAM!  WHAM!  WHAM!  The mirror suddenly stars from side to

side with huge cracks.  She's about to beat her way through it.

INSIDE THE OBSERVATION ROOM Harry and Gib jump back.

Helen drops the stool.  She stands there panting.  Her fury

spent, she begins to cry.

INSIDE THE OBSERVATION ROOM Harry states at her.  He smiles.

ON HELEN, not liking her wimpy code-name.

The unit-seven van pulls up in the spooky shadows under the

bridge, stopping next to Helen's red Accord.  The door slides

open and Helen gets out, helped my black-garbed hands.  She is

wearing her hood, which is whisked off by one of the hands.

She whirls in time to see the door slide shut and the van speed

off.  She watches it drive off into the night.

The van pulls up near the edge of a large quarry.  The door

opens and Simon is pushed out, followed by Harry, who is in his

black jumpsuit and wearing a ski-mask.  Gib follows as Harry

guides Simon to the edge of a sheer drop.  Harry whips off the

hood and Simon takes in his surroundings.

Harry whips off his ski-mask.

Simon has ducked his head and won't look at Harry.  Then it

dawns...  He looks up, brightening hopefully.

Harry whips his pistol out in one liquid motion and snaps the

muzzle right in front of Simon's eyes.

Harry is finally sickened by his grovelling.  He pulls Simon

away from the edge, then gestures with his gun.

Harry starts back to the truck.  Simon stays right with him,

facing him, terrified to turn away.  Like a dog following him.

Gib finally shoves Simon back and Harry contemptuously cranks

THREE ROUNDS into the ground by his feet, forcing him to dance

backward.  The two agents get into the van and tear off in a

cloud of dust.  Leaving Simon alone in the moonlight, miles

from nowhere.

TIGHT ON LOCATOR SCREEN as a blip moves across the grid of city

streets.  Gib drives while Harry watches the screen.

The scrambler phone in Harry's briefcase rings.  He picks it

up.

INTERCUT WITH SEDAN.  Spencer Trilby stands glowering as he

talks to Harry.

Harry spots something up ahead.  He snaps his fingers and

points, then whips a pair of gyro-stabilized binoculars to his

eyes.

HARRY'S POV THROUGH SCOPE:  Trent, on the Yamaha with Dana on

the back, rides through the intersection up ahead.  Dana bops

to the sound coming over her walkman headphones as Trent zips

between cars.  Gib makes the turn, pulling in behind them at a

distance.

THE CAMERA PUSHES IN ominously on Spencer Trilby.

Click.  Harry hangs up the phone slowly.

Harry walks toward the closed warehouse doors, past Trent's

parked Yamaha.  We hear MUSIC from inside.

INSIDE THE WAREHOUSE, we see what it is that Dana has been

doing when she skips school.  A garage band of teenagers,

mostly older than her, are playing loudly.  Dana has the

microphone, belting out a punchy cover of the old Cream classic

"Sunshine of Your Love".  The guitar parts have been industrial-

ized, and it actually sounds pretty hip.

Harry watches from the shadows, standing behind a pillar not

far from the stage.  Watching his daughter gyrating in the

spotlight.  His reaction is hard to read.

TIGHT ON THE MASTER CIRCUIT-BREAKER as Harry's hand throws the

switch.

The stage is plunged into darkness and the music stops

abruptly.  Before the band members can react, they hear the big

metal doors rolling and sunlight blazes in.  Dana stares into

the glare, seeing an ominous silhouette standing there.  The

shadowy figure walks toward them.

The figure comes straight toward Dana.  To her horror is turns

out to be her dad.  Her heart stops.

Harry appears through the doors, marching Dana by the arm.  He

walks her over to some industrial junk nearby, overgrown with

weeds, and sits her down for a talk.

She is sullen, still mortified from getting dragged out in

front of her friends.

You think Harry's going to really rain on her parade.  But he

doesn't.  He becomes very tender.  He pushes the hair back from

her face.

She looks up at him, puzzled?

Dana stares at her father with a dawning awareness.  This is

not just some chump that she has to put up with.  This is her

father.  He is a part of her.  No matter what happens they are

in this thing together.  Tears start to run down her cheeks.

She grabs his in a fierce hug.  Harry closes his eyes, letting

the moment purify him.

She pulls back, suddenly wary.  Oh shit.

Dana sits wedged into the front seat between Gib and Harry.

Father and daughter are singing raucously loud, with the

windows down.

They crack up after the long sustain.  They are both suffused

with a glow of rediscovery.  Harry pulls the car to the curb in

front of Dana's school.

The image of a family dinner.  Helen is avoiding Harry's eyes.

Harry looks over at Dana and she gives him a tiny smile.  Then

she rises from her half-finished dinner and heads out of the

kitchen.

Helen watches her go.  That's strange.

Harry smiles, reaching for more chicken.  The phone RINGS.

Helen controls the urge to run to it.

GIB, AT OMEGA SECTOR, uses the SPEECH SYNTHESIZER to disguise

his voice.

BACK ON HELEN as she reacts to that.

Harry smirks, listening to her lie.  She's good.  The smirk

drops as she turns.

She walks unhurriedly out of the room.  Behind her back, Harry

is grinning.  The second Helen is out of his sight line, she

runs up the stairs.  Harry waits a moment then picks up the

phone.

Gib is in a corner of the electronics lab, in an area dedicated

to DIGITAL AUDIO PROCESSING.  The phone in his briefcase rings.

Gib answers.

Gib looks over at a SOUND RECORDING BOOTH nearby.  In it a FAT   *

FRENCH AGENT, JEAN-CLAUDE is doing voice recording from a hand-  *

written page.

We hear Jean-Claude record a line on a tiny DAT tape recorder.   *

He speaks with a cosmopolitan French accent.  Close your eyes    *

and he's Charles Boyer.

A big luxury hotel downtown, with an opulent lobby.  Helen

enters, looking different than we have ever seen her.  She has

been commanded to be sexy, and she is.  Her black slinky dress

is cut at mid-thigh, showing some good legs we haven't been

aware of.  She's pulled her hair back and added pearls.  Now

she looks elegant and hot.  Playing the role.

She goes to the front desk and signals the ASSISTANT MANAGER

with her eyes.  He comes over to her.

The man nods.  Saying nothing, he reaches under the counter and

hands her the envelope.  She opens it as she walks across the

lobby.  In contains a room key, a small bugging device, and a

phone number.

TIGHT ON A PAY PHONE as Helen finishes dialing the number.  She

scans the lobby as the phone rings--

Helen exits an elevator and walks down the long hallway toward

the suite.  She stops by a mirror and checks her look.  Decides

she is too uptown.  She pulls the neckline of her dress down so

it shows more shoulder, then hitches up the hem.  Ditches the

pearls.  Puts on some red lipstick.

Now she doesn't look hot and elegant... just hot.  She

practices a slinky walk, getting into the role.

Suddenly she remembers her wedding ring.  She pulls on it.  It

probably hasn't been off in years.  She licks her finger and     *

twists it off.  Yoww!  She puts it on her right hand and turns   *

the modest diamond palm-side in .  .  .  Out of site.  Then,     *

reading the number off the key, she goes to the room and

unlocks the door.

Helen comes in hesitantly.  The lights are off.  The suite is

large and richly furnished, with a breathtaking view of the

city.  It is the room Harry was using, posing as Renquist.  A

FRENCH-ACCENTED VOICE comes from the next room.

She goes into the bedroom.  There is a dark figure sitting in

a chair, just a silhouette.

It is a corner room.  The drapes on one side are closed,

shadowing the man, but open on the other just enough to let in

a slash of moonlight.  She steps forward into it.

TIGHT CLOSE UP on the figure.  We can just make out that it is

Harry, though Helen cannot.  TILT DOWN to show his hand, out of

sight behind the chair-arm, as he manipulates the pause button

on the DAT tape deck.

Harry goes SSSSHHHH.  Silencing her gently.  He silently clicks

off the PAUSE button.  The DAT recorder plays.  Charles Boyer,

deep and hypnotic, speaks from Harry's outline.  Harry

lipsynchs.

PAUSE button.  She starts to yank the zipper down.               *

Helen turns her back to him, and draws the zipper down           *

languorously, revealing her creamy back.  She is not wearing a   *

bra.                                                             *

Helen is starting to get into the ritual.  She lets the dress    *

slip off her shoulders.  It slides down her body to the floor.   *

She steps out of it, still in high heels.                        *

Harry winces.  He starts the next line immediately.

The ritual continues as she strips slowly (this will be

tastefully done).  She conceals the bugging device in her hand

as she sets her clothes on the bed near the phone.  Helen is

still concentrating on her mission.

She turns.  Her skin is beautiful in the silvery light.

Helen has no idea what to do, but she improvises quite well.

The scrutiny of the shadowed man, who is fully clothed, and her

raw vulnerability are a quiveringly powerful erotic

combination.

TIGHT ON Harry's eyes as he studies her.  His game, meant to

give her a dangerous fantasy, is actually turning him on

mightily.  He is amazed to see her playing the role, getting

into it.  This is not the Helen is thought he knew for sixteen

years.

She does.  Harry rises and goes to her, bringing the tape deck.

He sits on the bed, next to her, but without touching her.  He

strokes her hair, lovingly.  Then runs his fingertips over her

eyes, down her cheeks.  To her it feels delicate and delicious.

Part of her is enjoying this a lot.  But Helen is torn between

wanting to flee and knowing that nothing the man has done so

far is enough to cause her to abort her mission.

Harry goes SSSHHH.  It's all he can do.  He bends over her and

brings his lips slowly down to her.  He touches them to hers so

slowly that she barely knows he is kissing her.  Then he takes

her in a passionate kiss.

And she grabs the lamp on the bedside table and SMASHES IT OVER

HIS HEAD.  Harry flies off onto the floor, groaning and

semiconscious.

Helen flips on the light and grabs her clothes, starting to

dress rapidly.  She still doesn't recognize Harry, who is face

down.  He groans and starts to rise.  She kicks him in the ribs

and finishes putting her dress on.  She sticks the bug under

the night table and grabs her shoes.  Mission accomplished,

motherfuckers.

Harry grabs her ankle.  She raises one shoe to kosh him again,

and sees who it is.  Freezeframe.  Total shock.  She can't even

form the question.

CRASH!!  The door lock is shattered by tremendous force and

THREE MEN burst into the room.  We may recognize them as

workers from Juno's shop.  They are wielding pistols and are

clearly part of Malik's terrorist brigade.

Harry is still groggy, and he doesn't want to start anything

with Helen there, and risk her getting shot.  He acquiesces as

they pull him to his feet.

During this exchange, the thugs have handcuffed Harry's hands

behind his back.  The leader gestures to one of the men to

bring Helen along.  Helen and Harry are dragged roughly out of

the room with pistol-muzzles stuck in their ribs.

The door from the corridor bangs open and the thugs hustle

Harry and Helen down the fire-escape stairs.

The thug leader cuffs her across the head to shut her up.

A stairwell door opens and the terrorists rush Harry and Helen   *

through the basement labyrinth.                                  *

A pistol muzzle is jammed hard behind Helen's ear.

They are hustled across a loading dock to a RENTAL VAN waiting   *

with the door open.  A fourth terrorist slides the van door      *

shut after they get in and gets in behind the wheel.  The van    *

takes off.

The rental van pulls up to a G-3 JET warming up outside a

private hanger.  The van doors open and the hostages are

brought out.  Harry sees a long black LIMO pulling up behind

the van.  The driver, an enormous man names AKBAR, hurries to

open the passenger door.  A slender pair of ankles emerge,

followed by the rest of Juno Skinner, looking devastatingly

beautiful but now quite sinister.

To Helen it is like a living James Bond film, with the jet, the

limo, the terrorists, and now an exotic femme fatale, dressed

to kill, approaching them.

Juno signals with her eyes and the terrorists march the

prisoners toward the plane.

They enter the luxurious passenger cabin of the plane.  Helen

has never seen anything like this.

AKBAR and the other terrorists push Helen and Harry into seats

and strap them in.

Helen grabs the locket, dangling on a chain around her neck,

and opens it to show Juno.

THE PICTURE IN THE LOCKET -- Harry and Helen together, smiling.

Harry roles his eyes.  Great, Helen.  A FLIGHT HOSTESS walks up

carrying a tray.  Juno smiles graciously at Helen.

The hostess whips a PNEUMATIC INJECTOR off the tray and zaps

Helen in the shoulder.

She slumps.  Juno looks at Harry.

Juno nods and the hostess zaps Harry.  He slides into

unconsciousness as the plane engines begin to SCREAM.

The G-3 lifts into the night sky, turning south.

A small FREIGHTER is tied up to a half-crumbling pier.  Next to

the pier is a dilapidated corrugated-metal warehouse building,

two stories high.  There are floodlights on the dock but beyond

is black night, with the ghostly shapes of mangroves and palms.

It is an abandoned facility on what appears to be a tiny island

in the Caribbean.

There is a lot of activity.  Three U-RENT TRUCKS are parked by

the warehouse, as well as some other vehicles.  About thirty

men, clearly CRIMSON JIHAD TERRORISTS are busy at various

activities.  Many of them carry AK47 assault rifles.

MALIK is supervizing them as they finish unloading a tarp-

covered object about 15 feet high from the ship.  A rusting

gantry crane trundles it into the warehouse.  Malik looks up as

an AEROSPATIALE HELICOPTER thunders toward them over the black

Caribbean water.

The helicopter lands and Juno steps down from the front door.

The sliding door is opened and Akbar and the others pull a

groggy Harry and Helen out of the aircraft.  They are covered

by hoods.

Malik walks up to them and pulls their hoods off.  Harry takes

in his surroundings and looks back into the eyes of Malik.

Lethal energy flows between them.

Malik leads the entourage into the warehouse, where brilliant

floodlights illuminate--

THREE HUGE STONE FIGURES, lined up in the middle of the space.

The tarp is removes from the object they just unloaded,

revealing a FOURTH STATUE.  The figures are cracked and

obscured by centuries, but they are unmistakably warriors

mounted on horseback.  The legs and arms are missing on some,

but the massive heads and necks remain.

She approaches the nearest figure, caressing its flank.  A man

with a jackhammer steps up to her.

She shrugs and nods to the man with the jackhammer.  He blasts

right into the body of one of the Horseman, destroying it.

Stone fragments fall away, revealing a cavity cut with great

precision inside the figure.

Inside is a BRIGHT METAL CONTAINER.  Four terrorists pull it

out and set it on the ground.  It is six feet long and coffin-

like.  Malik steps up to it, his eyes glistening.  A hush has

fallen over the group.

The latches are released and the lid lifted.  Inside is

machined metal object, roughly conical, about five feet long.

Malik signals to Harry to step closer and look.

Malik grabs Helen, jerking her roughly forward.  He whips out

a knife and inserts the point under Helen's jaw, forcing her

head back and drawing blood.

Harry steps forward, his face grim.

Malik lowers the knife from her jaw.  He turns away from her

like she has ceased to exist and yells at the terrorists to

remove the other weapons.  Jackhammers tear into the stone

figures.

Helen is just staring at Harry, her mouth open.  He turns to

her, not knowing what to say.  He shrugs sheepishly.

She just looks at him for a long time.  She moves closer,

staring and staring, letting it sink in.  Then she hauls off

and slugs him right in the jaw so hard is almost knocks him

down.

Terrorists grabs her and restrain her.  She starts to cry.

Juno looks at them both and laughs.  She offers Helen a tissue.

NEARBY, Akbar is going through the contents of Helen's handbag

and Harry's wallet.  He rips open the bottom stitching and

pulls out the geo-positioning transmitter.

Malik looks at the tracker and then smashes it to the floor.

Helen looks at the crushed transmitter.  She stares at Harry

with dawning realization.

Juno cracks up at this.

The jet has become a mobile tactical-command center, with Gib,   *

Faisil, and several other agents working out of portable         *

equipment cases.  Faisil looks up from a computer screen         *

suddenly.

Gib, who has been pacing the aisile whirls to the screen.        *

Gib goes up to the cockpit.  They are on approach and the

lights of Miami fill the front window.

TIGHT ON BLACK AND WHITE VIEWFINDER IMAGE of the terrorists'

handycam.  Harry is speaking directly into the camera,

finishing up his message.

The camera swings off Harry to Malik, standing before the rest

of the Jihad warriors, who are assembled behind the four bombs.

Over the image of Malik, a LOW-BATTERY warning begins to flash.

CUT TO SCENE, as Malik speaks into the camera, which is head by

one of his men.  The CAMERAMAN is sweating, wondering if he

should interrupt.  He gulps nervously as Malik drones on.

BACK TO VIEWFINDER IMAGE.  BATTERY warning flashing faster.

In a burst of static the image GOES BLACK.

The cameraman nervously lowers the camera, ashen faced.

Malik's eyes are black with murder.

A filthy, crumbling cinderblock building (near the warehouse).

A few bare light bulbs with bugs zipping around then, and no

glass in the windows.  Harry and Helen are brought in by two

TERRORIST GUARDS.  Juno follows then into the bleak room.

Guards shackle them to steel chairs with handcuffs.

A MAN enters the room carrying a small suitcase.  He has skull-

like features.  He opens the suitcase and Harry has a good view

of the contents:  medical instruments, needle-probes, drills,

Dremel tools with saw blades.

Samir injects Harry in the arm with the syringe.

Samir exits.                                                     *

She kneels down in front of Harry, stroking his leg.

Harry's words are beginning to be slightly slurred.  The drugs

are taking effect.

Juno puts her arms around him and kisses him passionately.  She

breaks, looking at Helen to savor the effect.  Helen is

trembling with rage.

Juno crosses to the guard and takes a hand-grenade off his

belt.  Then she goes to Helen and places it between her knees.

She pushes Helen's knees together to hold the spoon against the

grenade then pulls the pin.

Juno leaves.  Harry looks dopily at Helen.

Helen doesn't believe him, and why should she.  She looks up     *

from staring at the grenade, to see that Harry's head has

slumped forward.

ON MALIK as he pokes through Harry and Helen's stuff on the

table.  He picks up Helen's wallet and opens it.  ECU WALLET -

a picture of Harry, Helen and Dana.  Malik stares at it a

moment.  Then motions to one of his men.

Samir lifts Harry's head and sees that he is pretty shitfaced.

Samir approaches Harry with a long steel needle probe.

He holds them up to show Samir.  Then he explodes out of the

chair-- Breaks the torturer's neck-- Spins him between himself

and the guard-- Who then hesitates to fire-- Giving Harry the

split second he needs to grab the knife from the table and

throw it into the guard's eye, killing him instantly.

Helen is flat blown away.  Wow.  It only took a few seconds for

Harry to reverse the situation.  Her Harry!  He picks up the

guard's 9mm pistol and staggers over to her.

He kneels down in front of her.  Gently he slips his hands

between her thighs, getting a grip on the grenade, then sliding

his fingers slowly over the spoon to hold it securely.

He stops moving, suddenly.  She realizes with a sudden jolt of

terror that he has frozen.

She sees how shitfaced he is.  He holds the grenade up, gripped

safely so the spoon can't fly off.

Harry and Helen emerge from the building, creeping through the

shadows.  She stops him for a second.  Gets very close to him,

whispering, crouched in the shadows.

She looks into his eyes, and knows he is telling the truth.

At that moment, they hear yelling from the cinder-block

building.

Harry takes her hand and they sprint for cover at the edge of

the mangrove swamp.  A LIGHT HITS THEM.  TWO TERRORISTS,

running around the corner, open fire with AK47s just as Harry

and Helen reach a cluster of palm trees.  The trunks explode     *

with bullet hits as they run through the darkness.               *

As the two terrorists move through the trees, Harry lunges from  *

the shadows and grabs one from behind.  He wrests his rifle      *

away and swings it at the other, knocking his AK down.  The      *

first terrorist draws a knife and slashes at him, but Harry

grabs his knife arm and swings the blade into his partner.

Then he elbow smashes the first guy and seizes him in a two-

hand neck-breaker-- SNAP.

Two more run around the corner of a building.  Harry stomps his  *

foot down on one of the AKs, which is lying across a log.  It    *

flips into the air and he catches it in firing position .  .     *

.  and takes them out with two well-aimed bursts.  Helen comes   *

out of the shadows staring at Harry in amazement.  His shirt is

ripped, he is scratched and bleeding, holding an assault rifle   *

expertly and scanning the brush like a feral animal.             *

He grabs her and kisses her passionately.

LOOKING DOWN FROM A CATWALK on the activity below the four

horsemen statues and several utility trucks almost fill the

floorspace.  A rental truck is being loaded with conventional

weapons, including machine guns and several HAND-LAUNCHED

STINGER MISSILES.  One of the nukes has been lowered into a pit

cut in the concrete floor.  Malik and most of the terrorists

are gathered around it.

A GUARD, F.G.  on the catwalk, watches intently from the

railing.  So intently that he doesn't head Harry sneak up on

him.  SNAP.  Harry catches the guard's MAC-10 machine pistol

before it can hit the floor.  He and Helen crouch behind a

steel pillar, watching the proceedings below.  Helen keeps

glancing at the dead guard, killed so effortlessly a moment

before by her husband.  It is all surreal.

BELOW, MALIK is shouting in his native language.  He pulls a

chain from around his neck and holds up a METAL ARMING KEY.

Then jumps down into the pit and inserts it into the warhead's

arming computer.  Harry is listening intently, translating for

Helen.

Malik jumps out of the pit.  He signals and terrorists pour

concrete into the pit, covering the bomb.  He begins ranting

again.

Malik raises his fist and chants some Crimson Jihad slogans.

The terrorists echo and chant and then cheer, firing their guns

in the air.  Harry pulls Helen back as ricochets clatter all

over the inside of the metal building.

Malik shouts something and all the terrorists go back to work

at double time.  They are loading warheads Two and Three onto

trucks (one per truck) and the last, number Four, is being

wheeled out on a cart to the Aerospatiale outside.

He hands her the MAC-10.  She holds it clumsily.

She nods gamely and Harry starts down the steel stairs to the

floor below.

ON HARRY, reaching the floor.  He slips behind some packing

crates.  Then swings into action-- He hurls the grenade as hard

as he can, down to the other end of the building.  KABOOM!!  He

uses the distraction to move forward.  But it goes wrong almost

right away...  A TERRORIST comes around a corner behind him,

shouts-- Harry dives for cover as the guy fires, but-- He trips

on a pipe and goes sprawling-- Losing the AK47, which slides

under some equipment and-- Seven terrorists run toward him,

with guns raised.

HELEN fires a burst at the terrorists, actually hitting one!

But-- The recoil knocks her back, into a metal column, and the

gun

FLIES OUT OF HER HANDS.

It falls to the metal steps and hits-- Going off.  B-B-BLAM!

The burst kills two more terrorists, and-- The Mac-10

cartwheels and hits further down.  ANOTHER BURST.  Another

terrorist is splattered.

It spins and hits another step-- ANOTHER RANDOM BURST

MIRACULOUSLY KILLS THE LAST TWO TERRORISTS!!

She has inadvertently saved her husband.  Harry looks up from

behind cover-- to see all seven dead.  Now it's his turn to be

amazed.  He signals to her to run... get off the exposed

catwalk.  She makes it through the door to the outside stairs

as bullets start hitting the steel walls behind her.

A TERRORIST with a knife runs at the unarmed Harry.  Harry

snatches up a jack-hammer and BRAT-TAT-TAT-- Drives it into the

guy's chest.  Then he-- Grabs an AK from one of the fallen

terrorists and opens fire.  Malik shouts to the drivers of the

trucks to get going.  The other terrorists return fire at Harry--

Who sprints from cover to cover, reaching a side door-- Where

he rakes one of the passing trucks with a burst-- But

terrorists behind him in the building have a clear shot and

rounds hit the wall next to him as he-- Dives through the door--

--landing outside.  He takes cover behind an aircraft REFUELING

TRUCK.  Not a good place.  He is pinned down by automatic

weapons fire.  He looks around for Helen, who is--

50 yards away.  She is unarmed and unable to help.

HARRY cranks up the pump on the refueling truck and grabs the

nozzle of the hose.  He opens the flow and-- A stream of JET-

FUEL blasts out of the nozzle and-- Harry fires his AK right

across the nozzle-- The muzzle-blast ignites the av-gas and he

has a flame thrower with a 70 foot reach.

Harry, lit demonically by the inferno, paints the whole area,

setting vehicles afire, and scattering the terrorists.

Through the flames and smoke he sees one of the men hand Malik

a LAW rocket.  Malik snaps it to his shoulder, preparing to

fire.

Harry runs toward the edge of the dock thirty feet away as--

MALIK fires.  The rocket shoots toward the truck and-- Harry

leaps toward the dark water as-- KABOOOM!  Behind him the gas

truck EXPLODES IN A HUGE FIREBALL.

ANGLE LOOKING UP, UNDERWATER, AS HARRY HITS THE WATER AND

dives down.  An instant later a sheet of fire sweeps across the

surface above him.  Harry kicks hard, trying to swim beyond the

inferno above him so he can surface.

CLOSE ON HELEN, watching the burning wreckage of the gas truck.

A PISTOL ENTERS FRAME.  Its muzzle taps the back of her head.

She gasps and turns to see-- JUNO, holding the weapon expertly.

Juno grabs her and yanks her to her feet.  Helen SLAPS JUNO      *

HARD.  Juno has a slash across her cheek.  Blood trickles down.  *

She grabs Helen's hand and viciously turns it, seeing the        *

wedding ring turned inward, the diamond on the palm-side.  Her   *

face darkens with fury and she points the gun at Helen's face,   *

preparing to kill her .  .  .                                    *

And Malik's hand grabs her wrist, stopping her.                  *

Juno grabs her and twists her around, pushing her toward the     *

limo nearby.                                                     *

Harry is still swimming.  He reaches the edge of the fire and

surfaces, gasping for breath.  Treading water he scans the

dock.

Amid the fire and smoke, he sees Juno walking Helen at gun

point toward a LIMO.

TRACKING WITH JUNO, approaching the car.  Malik passes, jumping  *

into the Aerospatiale with his few remaining men.  The fourth    *

bomb is clearly visible as the sliding door is closed.  The      *

copter pulls pitch, fanning the flames of the inferno below as   *

it arcs away.

AKBAR, the 300 pound terrorist/chauffeur opens the door and      *

Juno gets into the limo with Helen.  Akbar scrunches into the

front seat and starts the car.

There is just enough light to see some geography.  The island

is very tiny.  Running right over it and to the horizon in both

directions is the OVERSEAS HIGHWAY.  The terrorists' trucks

rumble up an on-ramp past a sign that says MIAMI - 110.  The

limo is the last member of the convoy.  The Aerospatiale passes

overhead, hugging the deck, headed for Miami at 150 knots.

It looks like the aftermath of a battle... burning wreckage,

black smoke, bodies.  Not a living soul around.  The smoke

swirls as two big BELL 206 HELICOPTERS settle on the middle of

the dock.  GIB jumps out of the nearest with an AR-15, scanning

the wreckage.  Several of his men, and a couple of DEA agents,

spread out.  Gib breaks into a grin as he sees--

HARRY, materializing out of the swirling smoke.  Dripping wet,

clothes ripped and bloody.  But okay.

Gib and Harry are working out of brief-case mobile com-units.

Several Omega agents with headsets are reading maps, giving

commands, coordinating the evacuation, mobilizing their own

forces.  The energy is controlled but very high, everybody

talking at once.  This is the day they all have trained for.

It is impressive to watch.

Gib whips around to Harry, lowering his headset mike.

TRAFFIC on the two causeways is almost non-existent this early

in the morning.  The three rental trucks, followed by the limo

about a mile back, are almost the only vehicles.

Juno has a 9mm pistol aimed at Helen.  She opens the sunroof,

letting in the morning air and light.  Then pours herself a

Scotch from the bar.

HARRY AND GIB are both talking a mile a minute, coordinating

the evacuation of the highway and the surrounding area.

Gib looks out the window in time to see--

THREE hunch-winged P.S.T.O.L.  HARRIER jets pass them at 600

knots.

The pilot, like all jet pilots, seems icy calm.

The terrorists see the Harriers approaching on a low attack

run, and scramble to get out their Stingers.

The Harriers open fire with cannons and rocket pods on the

trucks below.  The 20mm cannons rip the ocean on either side of

the causeway into plumes of spray.

One of the Bomb trucks is hit.  It explodes and flies off the    *

bridge into the water.  The terrorists on one of the other

trucks fire a Stinger missile.

It arrows up, blowing one wing off the lead Harrier.  The pilot

ejects as the plane cartwheels into the sea and explodes.

Harry sees the battle far ahead... the exploding jet.

The two remaining Harriers make an attack run, launching four    *

Maverick missiles at the bridge.                                 *

The missiles hit the support trestles ahead of the trucks and    *

.  .  .  K-BOOOOM!!  A whole section of the concrete span        *

collapses into the water.

The first truck is consumed in the blast.  The last truck        *

slides to the edge of the gap and stops.                         *

Juno is trying to see what's going on ahead.  All they can see

is smoke and explosions.  Akbar is speaking heatedly (in

Arabic) into a walky talky and getting no answer.

Helen uses this moment of distraction to lunge forward,

grabbing the gun.  Juno fires wildly as they struggle for

control of the weapon.  The sound is deafening in the tiny

space.  The second shot catches Akbar behind the ear, and he

slumps forward.  His foot mashes down on the accelerator pedal

and the car surges faster.

The third Harrier fires its 2.75 Rockets and blows the           *

remaining truck into tinfoil.  Battle over.  Two bombs down.

The columns of smoke from the battle are still a couple miles

ahead of the copter.

THE LIMO tracks lazily back and forth across the lanes from one

guardrail to the other, throwing sheets of sparks where it

hits.  In is funneling along the causeway, unslowed, like an out-

of-control-train.

INSIDE, Helen knocks Juno's hands against the edge of the open

sunroof and the pistol goes flying out.

Helen is raging, grabbing Juno's head and pounding it against

anything hard she can find inside the car.  Suddenly she stops,

looking out the front window.  Juno turns too, off her look, to

see-- ANGLE THROUGH THE WINDSHIELD.  The causeway is blown away

about a quarter mile ahead.

Juno climbs through the window into the front seat, tugging on

the dead driver.  The heavyset Akbar is like a bag of cement.

Helen look up through the sunroof and sees--

THE BELL 206 COPTER, descending rapidly.  Harry is climbing out

onto the skids.  He hooks on arm and leg over the skid and

hangs down as low as he can.  HELEN stands up in the opening

and waves her arms.

Gib is yelling at the DEA pilot, who's not thrilled with this

idea.

Harry strains downward with one hand.  Helen reaches up toward

him.  The car screeches along the guard-rail, slamming against

it, throwing her from side to side in the sunroof.  Their

fingers touch, then separate.  She looks-- the limo is almost

on the precipice.

INSIDE THE CAR, Juno is desperately pulling on the inert

driver.  He slumps over on her, pinning her.  She looks over

the dash as the shattered edge of the causeway rushes toward

them--

HARRY'S HAND grabs Helen's.  He pulls her out of the car just

as the limo clears the edge.  She is jerked through the

sunroof, screaming.  The car falls away, arcing gracefully to

the ocean below.  It hits with an enormous explosion of water.

HARRY PULLS HELEN up onto the skid with him, getting her

stable.  She is gasping, holding on for dear life.  She looks

down at the ocean, the burning wreckage on the bridge, the

whole unbelievable panorama.

Then she looks at Harry and-- Grins.  She's alive!  And so is

he.  And not only that, this is the biggest rush of her life.

Harry grins back.  Surprised and pleased that she is more of a

soul-mate than he ever knew.

ANGLE ON A HARRIER, landing in full-hover on the causeway.  The

shriek of the jet engine is enormous.  It bounces down onto its

wheels like a big inscect.  The other remaining Harrier is

already down, behind it.

TRACKING past burning wreckage to Harry's Bell 206 just

settling on the highway.  B.G.  the other DEA Bell 206 is

landing with the Harrier pilot who ejected hanging in a sling.

Harry jumps out of the open door, followed by Helen and Gib.     *

Harry looks at his watch.                                        *

Helen and Harry move away from the agents.  They are safe and

together.  They look at each other, and there is nothing to

say.  Harry removes her wedding band from the wrong hand and     *

slips it back onto its rightful finger.                          *

He leans forward to kiss her.  She reaches for him.  Their lips  *

meet.

And they are locked together in that position when the sky

lights up behind them.  Talk about fireworks.  Harry covers her  *

eyes and they stay in the kiss.                                  *

They are in no danger, but the effect is stunning.  The classic  *

mushroom cloud appears at the horizon.  Helen watches, awed,

the most glorious and terrifying sight of our age.

The two young Harrier pilots stand nearby, watching the

mushroom disperse.  Gib is with the other Omega agents, his

finger pressed in his ear, listening to his headset.  He waves

to Harry to come to him.

Harry detaches from Helen and walks over to him.  Helen watches

him go... back to work.  She glances over at the two Harrier

pilots.

HARRY goes into the huddle with Gib and the others.

But Harry is already moving.  He sprints toward the nearest

Harrier, witch is idling nearby.  Gib runs after him.

Harry walks up to the young pilot...

He pushes past the pilot before the guy can react.

Harry is in the cockpit by now.  Gib climbs up.                  *

Harry doesn't have a G-suit or a helmet of anything.  He just

has his walky on his belt.

INSIDE THE CRAMPED COCKPIT, Harry looks around for the lever

which vectors the thrust.  Finds it, and sets it to 90 degrees

(vertical).  He bangs the canopy closed and brings the throttle

up to FULL.

The big plane wobbles off the ground like a drunken bumble-bee.

It drifts sideways and everybody runs to get out of the way.

At about six feet above the ground it slides sideways, clips

the top of a cop car and knocks off the light bar.  It lifts

unsteadily straight into the sky.  It turns around 180.

Harry pushes the vector lever forward and the thrust-nozzles

turn, accelerating the plane forward.

Gib is standing, watching Harry go.  He never believes this

guy.  Harry's voice comes over the walky...

The plane disappears toward Miami.

AN AERIAL SHOT, circling the building.  It is an unfinished

building in the high rise district.  The Aerospatiale sits on

the roof, its rotor turning slowly.  The street below is jammed

with cars.  Honking horns echo up the glass canyons.

ANGLE AT STREETLEVEL as cops use bullhorns and bad attitudes to

clear the street around the building, setting up a perimeter

two blocks away.

INSIDE THE HIGH RISE the terrorists have barricaded themselves

on the twentieth floor.  There are 12 TERRORISTS, all with

automatic weapons.  Occasionally one of them will fire a burst

down a stairwell with an AK-47.  Miami-Dade SWAT team members

are deployed in the stairwell but are keeping their distance.

Malik is sequestered with the bomb.  It sits on the floor,

still in its shipping case.  Dana stands nearby, looking

scares.  She is not ties up.  Where can she go?

She watches Malik go to the warhead and insert his arming key.

He has a TV set up on some crates, and we see that his video-

tapes demands are running on CNN.  Harry's face fills the

screen, verifying the the nuclear weapons as a real threat.  He

is identified at the bottom of the screen as HARRY TASKER,

ATOMIC ENERGY COMMISSION.  Dana stares at her father's face on

the national news.  It's like a bad dream.  She has been crying

but she is fairly composed now.

The terrorists ignore her.  A terrified ACTION NEWS REPORTER

and his CAMERAMAN, under guard by TWO TERRORISTS, are hastily

setting up to shoot Malik.

The reporter glances down, nervously.

Malik looks down.  The key is gone.

He turns, looking around wildly.  Malik then sees Dana running

for the stairwell to the roof.  He pulls a pistol and shoots at

her, but hits the wall as she bangs through the door.  He runs

after her.

ON THE ROOF, Malik bursts through the stairwell door.  His TWO

MEN have followed him.  Malik stops suddenly when he sees--

Dana standing at the edge of the roof.  She is holding the

ARMING KEY by its chain.  Dangling it over the edge.  He

signals to his men not to fire.

Malik advances slowly, his eyes glistening ferally.  She backs

up a step with each of his, moving along the edge of the roof.

Malik keeps his pistol aimed at her chest.

He advances, calling her bluff.  She backs away from him along

the edge.

She reaches the corner of the building.  Her back touches

something.  it is the boom of a small crane, used for lifting

building supplies.  Careful to keep the key dangling over open

space, Dana climbs up on the lattice-work boom and moves out

beyond the edge of the building, never taking her eyes off

Malik.  She is hyperventilating, terrified, but thinking

clearly.

Malik steps up on the crane, crawling out after her.  He knows

she will not drop the key as long as he has the gun.  It is a

game which will end when she reaches the end of the boom.  Dana

puts the key between her teeth so she can hang on better.  It

is windy and the boom is swinging.

The Crimson Jihad warriors hear a thunderous, shrieking roar

and look toward the window.

RISING INTO VIEW, LIKE A GARGOYLE FROM HELL, IS THE HARRIER.

It fills the windows completely, hovering only a few feet

outside.  The terrorists raise their AK-47s to fire just as

Harry hits the 20mm nose-cannon.

Glass explodes into glittering mist, and terrorists explodes

into bloody spray as Harry pivots the plane and the cannon

sweeps the floor clear from side to side.  The Crimson Jihad is

vaporized.

Malik hears the thunder of the jet and the firing, but from

where he is he can't see what's going on.  He focuses on the

key.  He must have that key.

Malik's TWO REMAINING MEN run to the helicopter, gesticulating

to the pilot to get ready to take off.  The pilot revs the

turbine and the rotor whirls faster.  The two men jump in,

picking up M-60 machine guns.

MALIK IS STILL ADVANCING out the crane boom.  Dana slips as she

backs up, toppling off the boom.  She is hanging now by her

hands over a 20 story drop.

Malik is almost to her.  He needs a hand free to grab her.  He

sets his gun down on the girder.  He grabs for her wrist.

ANGLE LOOKING DOWN.  Malik, Dana, the street far below.  With

an unbelievable roar the Harrier sweeps in beneath Dana,

FILLING FRAME.

Harry has the canopy up.  Malik sees Harry, ten feet below.

His eyes narrow with an all-consuming rage.  He glances at the

pistol on the beam.  Back at the girl, the key in her teeth--

So close.

Harry maneuvers the cockpit directly under Dana.

Malik lunges for her wrist.  She screams and lets go-- Dana

drops and hits the windshield of the hovering jet-- Harry grabs

her with his left hand, right hand still on the stick-- He

holds her until she can get a grip.  She is lying across the

nose of the plane.  Harry starts to bank away and--

Malik shrieks in rage.  He grabs his 9mm pistol and leaps off

the crane--

Onto the back of the plane.  He starts crawling toward the

cockpit.  Dana screams and Harry looks back, but just then--

The Aerospatiale swings around the building right in front of

them-- The door-gunner OPENS FIRE.

Harry banks hard, taking the hits under the wing.  He pivots

and slides sideways around the building, playing tag with the

copter.

He can't do anything radical enough to dislodge Malik without

tossing off his own daughter.

The helicopter appears around the corner, guns blazing in the

doors.  Harry pivots the plane and FIRES THE NOSE CANNON.  The

helicopter is riddled.  It tilts and plummets, auto-rotating

out of control.

As the copter hits the ground and explodes.  Fortunately the

police had created a cleared perimeter.

THE HARRIER dips and slews, half out of control.  Malik is

taking aim with the pistol, right at Harry's head.  Harry grabs

his daughter with his left hand, holding her with all his

strength and he-- Jinks the stick hard, just as-- Malik opens

fire, but-- The plane tilts wildly and Malik topples, screaming--

He slides along the wing, and falls over the leading edge--

Only to catch himself on the only available hand-hold-- The

last Sidewinder missile.

Harry and Malik lock eyes for one long second.  Then Harry hits

the FIRING STUD.  The Sidewinder drops away and ignites.

Carrying Malik out over Miami Beach.  It explodes a mile out to

sea.

HARRY PULLS DANA into the cockpit, settling her on his lap.

She stares at her father in amazement.  He banks away from the

building, accelerating the jet.  He grins at her.  Raises one

eyebrow.  Woggles the plane's wings.

ONE YEAR LATER

Dinner at home, and everybody's there.  We come in on the end

of some story that everybody thinks is hysterical.

Dana is laughing too, a part of it.  They are happy.  They are

a family.  Dana gets up, her meal half-eaten as usual.

She heads for the front door.

Dana trudges off to her room to do her homework.  The phone

rings.  Helen answers.

It is a black tie affair.  Very glitzy.  CAMERA SWOOPS over the

guests, sipping champagne and dancing.  It is an embassy crowd,

very international.  HARRY AND HELEN work their way through the

crowd.  He is in tux, hair slicked back, looking rakish.  She

is elegant in a low-cut gown and diamond choker.

Harry scoops two glasses of champagne off a passing tray and

hands her one.

VERY CLOSE ON GIB, hunches in a dark van someplace nearby.  He

speaks into his headset mike.

HELEN AND HARRY smile and nod as if they know people.  Speaking

very low, Helen answer Gib via SUB-VOCAL transceiver.

He whirls her across the floor and the CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP

as they dance.

