1 AERIAL PANORAMA - DAY TO NIGHT 1

A slow, steady, downward view. The camera seemingly

floats as the curve of the globe passes beneath.

Beginning in the green jungles of Sikkim in Northern

India it crosses the Himalayas, down into Tibet and

beyond to China - the zigzag line of the Great Wall

clearly visible. Then the Gobi desert is flowing

beneath, and as the light begins to fade, Mongolia gives

way to the Russian Steppe, and as dusk turns to night we

are over Siberia - gliding North over Lake Baikal, and

onward across forested hills and valleys. A sense of

utter remoteness in this silent landscape. Then a tiny

shaved patch within the primeval forest - a bald

rectangle of ground, crisscrossed by faint probing

lights. The camera slows, and hovers.

2 EXT. SOVIET LABOR CAMP 105, SIBERIA - NIGHT 2

Out of the blackness, the momentary glimpse of a barbed

wire fence, lit by the combing fingers of a searchlight.

Another angle, and the silhouette of distant timber

buildings is briefly etched, before the light passes and

all is again in darkness. Closer, on a canvas-sided

3 INT. BARRACKS, CAMP 105, SIBERIA - NIGHT 3

dim central bulb illuminates some 150 men, aged from 16

to 60, most sitting or lying on their bunks. Some wear

scraps of army uniform, or civilian clothing, others in

prison issued padded jackets. Some, from the Asian

territories, still ear something of their national

costume. Included among them are groups of foreigners

from recently occupied countries and a Babel of languages

drifts through the fetid air. It's a wide ranging mix of

types, of race, of class. They're miserable, starving

and ill. There is no camp camaraderie and they eye each

other with indifference or suspicion. Most of these men

are political prisoners, known as 'Politicals' or

'S8ers', after the section of the Soviet Penal Code that

has put them here.

Near the stove, and contrasted with the 'Politicals', a

group are gathered about a card game on a lower bunk.

These men look healthier, and are further distinguished

by their tattoos.

These are the URKI, some dozen of them, regular

criminals, and from their manner the undisputed masters

of the block.

Sitting facing each other - VALKA, thirties, heavily

tattooed, flash of a steel-caped tooth. His opponent,

BOHDAN, older, and the 'Pakhan', the 'boss' of this

criminal gang. Bohdan shuffles a deck of home-made

cards.

[All DIALOGUE IN THE CAMP IS IN RUSSIAN, SUB-TITLED,

EXCEPT WHERE INDICATED THAT INMATES SPEAK ENGLISH].

What've you got?

VALKA removes his coat, passes it to BOHDAN who examines

it briefly.

Think I want your stinking lice

farm?

Polish tailor.

He shows the label.

See? From Krakov. Good as new.

BOHDAN nods to his minder who opens a battered wooden

suitcase - a glimpse of hoarded food. The minder puts

his hand on a lump of bread lying beside a length of

sausage. BOHDAN nods. The bread is placed beside the

coat.

And the sausage.

BOHDAN stares at him, shakes his head, 'no'.

Bohdan, you're a dog's prick, I

swear. I hope you die with an axe

in your skull, and your balls

ripped out.

The swearing is more or less a ritual and provokes no

reaction.

OK. For the bread.

3.

BOHDAN shuffles and deals. He separates his cards with

the long fingernail of his little finger. In a few rapid

plays, VALKA is left coat-less.

Apart from the half-dozen thugs surrounding the players,

the game is watched by two 'Politicals', who have just

entered with a load of wood for the stove. The elder,

SMITH, a hard-face man in his late forties, the other

ANDREI, early twenties. VALKA signals to YURI who takes

three 'tailor-made' cigarettes from his pocket, passes

them carefully to VALKA who lays them before BOHDAN.

For the bread.

For the bread, and the sausage,

bastard!

BOHDAN enjoying himself.

Throw in that crappy shirt you're

wearing and I might be tempted.

Smiles from the gang. VALKA knows he's being mocked but

he's desperate. His eyes flick down to the sausage.

Then he takes off his shirt. He sits bare-chested, a

tattooed portrait of LENIN on his left breast looking

across at STALIN on his right. BOHDAN deals, and again

VALKA loses.

offers to BOHDAN.

VALKA lights a cigarette.

of cool.

VALKA nervously fingers an aluminium crucifix hanging by

a cord from his neck. Etched on the cross a naked woman.

You're already in debt.

VALKA's anxious eyes. They settle on SMITH by the stove.

He speaks in carefully articulated English.

Come here.

SMITH returns the stare, then slowly approaches.

Take off your coat.

A silence, the criminal gang sensing a showdown. There's

something about SMITH, something steely, unpredictable.

The fire crackles loudly. SMITH all the while holding

VALKA's stare.

[THE DIALOGUE RETURNS TO RUSSIAN.]

Worth shit!

He looks at SMITH's companion.

You.

ANDREI goes pale, removes his coat to reveal a decent-

looking patterned wool sweater. He offers the coat.

Let's have the sweater.

Take the coat.

I want the sweater.

ANDREI doesn't move.

Your babushka make it for you?

Come on, hand it over.

ANDREI is visibly shaking.

You have no authority, here.

VALKA gets up, moves slowly to ANDREI, a smile on his

lips. Then he casually reaches down as if to tuck his

trousers deeper into his boots, reaches for something,

and in one slow balletic movement, swings up and

stretches out his hand to ANDREI, and ANDREI sobs and

leans to one side.

Was that really necessary?

In the dim light ANDREI's face is grey as he sags to the

floor. None of the other prisoners move to help him, nor

do they show any sign of concern, as VALKA places the

knife back in his boot and returns to the game. YURI

steps forward and strips the sweater from the dead man,

handing it on to VALKA, who passes it to BOHDAN. BOHDAN

examines it professionally, wipes a little blood off his

hands.

OK. For the sausage.

The game resumes.

FADE TO BLACK.

FADE UP ON:

4 EXT. GRAVEYARD, FOREST NEAR CAMP 105, SIBERIA - NIGHT 4

Freshly dug graves. Close on one of these, stones piled

in a mound over the grave. Hands into frame moving aside

the stones. Wider to see two PRISONERS, breath steaming

from their mouths, as they work quickly and quietly to

uncover the grave. The older of the two is KHABAROV,

late thirties, the other, LAZAR, late twenties. Furtive

looks over their shoulders as an occasional blade of

light from the watchtower throws them into silhouette.

Here he is.

He reaches out to touch a human toe poking out of the

rocks.

As they work -

Close on the face of ANDREI, as they continue to uncover

his body.

He's not frozen yet, that's lucky.

The remaining stones are removed to find the corpse

dressed in nothing but underwear.

Damn! Picked clean! Bloody

thieves.

Keep your voice down, be grateful

there's anything left.

They reach into the grave to retrieve the underwear.

A5 OMITTED AS

AB5 INT WASH-HOUSE - NIGHT AB5

5 EXT. BARRACKS, CAMP 105 - DAWN 5

iron.

6 INT. BARRACK BUILDING - SAME TIME - DAWN 6

Close on the barrack stove, the underwear drying,

KHABAROV's hands into the frame.

As the prisoners rise, follow a hand to hand exchange of

the set of underwear for a hank of tobacco. KHABAROV

having done the deal splits the tobacco with LAZAR.

Moving quickly to complete a second deal, KHABAROV swaps

half his share of the tobacco with another prisoner for

two slices of bread. He waits until the last of the

men leave then he carefully breaks off a corner from one

piece of bread, concealing the rest in a hiding place in

the dirt at the base of his bunk - a glimpse of a cache

of hoarded food and other items.

The saved morsel he places on his tongue, and closes his

eyes. He doesn't chew, just lets it dissolve like the

Eucharist. Then it's gone in a slow swallow and he opens

his eyes. He can hear a guard shouting outside, but he

hesitates, carefully licking his fingers. He stares at

his hand. Close on a spot between his fingers - there's

a crumb there. Into frame, the tip of his tongue as it

slowly and carefully retrieves the tiny speck of bread.

7 EXT. LABOR CAMP 105, SIBERIA - DAWN 7

The camp seen in a distant view - surrounded by double

wire, a collection of weathered timber buildings with

watchtowers placed at regular intervals along the

perimeter. In the distance, dense forest.

Entering frame a column of close to a hundred men march

toward the camp. Following behind is a lorry, carrying

six guards, supplies for their recent journey, and a camp

stove.

8 EXT. CAMP GATES - DAWN 8

As they approach one of the prisoners looks up to an arch

stretching across the gates - a hand-painted sign in

Russian subtitled: 'LABOR IS HONOR, GLORY, NOBILITY, AND

HEROISM'.

The prisoner is JANUSZ, early twenties and he exchanges a

look with the man beside him, TOMASZ, about the same age.

ANOTHER ANGLE shows a line of prisoners, five abreast,

marching toward them on their way to work. They have

their attendant guards and dogs and as the two columns

pass each other the contrast between the half-starved,

ill looking 'old' prisoners and the comparative health of

the 'new', could not be more apparent - 'Is this what we

are to become?' on the faces of the 'new'. We glimpse

some of those already established - they include BOHDAN,

and VALKA, and further back - SMITH and KHABAROV. As

they pass they look across to JANUSZ and TOMASZ, both

Polish, and behind them to VOSS, a tall young Latvian

with a mop of white-blonde hair. Behind VOSS - ZORAN, a

blanket over his three-piece suit. Beside him, another

Pole - KAZIK, at seventeen, the youngest in the group.

9 EXT. 'THE ZONE', CAMP 105 - DAY 9

The newly arrived prisoners assemble between the various

buildings - an area known as the 'ZONE'.

The camp is being expanded, and everywhere are piles of

cut timber, coils of wire, and work going on replacing

old canvas-sided barracks with new timber ones.

The Spring thaw has turned recently melted snow into

slush, and duck-boards are hastily laid to allow the

Commandant to cross to the assembled prisoners. He walks

with his subordinate and LAZAR who is FOREMAN of the new

camp construction. LAZAR carries a sheaf of plans, and

the COMMANDANT stops, studies a drawing, then impatiently

issues an order dismissing him.

The COMMANDANT mounts a box, accepting a folder of

documents from his subordinate, who has in turn received

them from the escorting guard. The COMMANDANT surveys

the prisoners before him. He's a man in his fifties with

a bland but not unintelligent cast to his features.

He looks up from the collection of documents in his hand.

Enemies of the People! Look about

you...and understand... it is not

our guns, or our dogs, or our

wire, that forms your prison.

Siberia is your prison. All four

million square miles of it. Here

in Camp 105, you will work hard.

Work and you eat. Eat and you

live.

Close on JANUSZ and his friends.

10-13 OMITTED 10-13

A14 EXT. THE ZONE, CAMP 105 - DAY A14

Later, the newly arrived prisoners exit the wash-house,

heads and beards shaved. In the background a glimpse of

others waiting their turn. To one side of the wash-

house, a pile of their luggage. A couple of guards sort

through their belongings, pocketing the odd item.

JANUSZ, VOSS and KAZIK, heads shaved, exit the hut.

JANUSZ's attention is caught by the men working on

replacing the old stockade wall with a new double barbed-

wire fence. The overseer, LAZAR, gives a signal and a

section of the old wall falls to the ground.

14 EXT. CAMP KITCHEN, THE ZONE - NIGHT 14

The prisoners move in a line toward an open window in the

side of the kitchen building. Here, under the watchful

eye of the cook - one of BODHAN's men - a single serve of

thin soup is slopped into their metal bowls. One has no

bowl, so he uses his hat.

JANUSZ and his friends shuffle toward the window.

Their attention is caught by a group of blind prisoners

feeling their way along the side of the kitchen hut, a

hand on the shoulder of the man in front.

VOSS (TO JANUSZ)

Night blindness. Saw it in the

transit camp.. .vitamin deficiency.

SMITH, a couple of places ahead in the line, turns on

hearing English spoken.

As JANUSZ moves forward he watches several wild-eyed men

scrambling about in a pile of kitchen slops thrown into

the mud by the kitchen door. They find here the odd

scrap of food, or simply soak their fingers in the slime,

then lick them clean.

SMITH, having been served, moves away, retrieving a

hoarded slice of bread from within his jacket. He dips

it into the soup, raises it to his mouth when a corner of

the bread drops to the ground. One of the garbage-

eaters, dives for it, but SMITH is too quick for him,

placing a boot over the scrap of bread. JANUSZ watches

as SMITH picks up the bread, cleans off the dirt and eats

it, his every move watched by the starving man at his

feet. JANUSZ offers the remainder of his soup to the man

who greedily drinks it. SMITH and JANUSZ stare at each

other.

Planning to survive on half

rations, son?

JANUSZ surprised by the American accented English.

He's an old man.

I'm an old man. But I'll be alive

in the morning. He won't.

He goes to move away, hesitates, turns back to JANUSZ.

'Kindness'. That can kill you

here. You'll learn that.

He places the last morsel of bread in his mouth, and

chewing slowly, turns and walks away.

KHABAROV (V.0.)

American.

JANUSZ turns to find KHABAROV beside him looking at

SMITH's retreating back.

American?

He looks back to SMITH walking away toward the barracks.

Stalin doesn't like foreigners.

That includes Poles. You are

Polish aren't you?

JANUSZ still staring after SMITH.

JANUSZ nods.

Yes, I am.

I love you Poles, your burning

sense of injustice, your yearning

for freedom.

(He offers his hand).

Khabarov. Andrei Timofeyevich.

JANUSZ looks at him - he wears a distinctive coat,

trimmed with fur - something refined about him,

'aristocratic' even. He offers his hand, and they shake.

Weiszczek, Janusz.

And your 'prayer', may I ask?

58.10

58.10 A spy?

That's what they told me.

Ten years?

Twenty.

KHABAROV indicates himself.

58.14. Sabotage, ten years.

They begin walking toward the distant barrack buildings.

And you were in the cavalry?

JANUSZ's suspicions aroused.

How could you know that?

Oh there's that Polish spirit! I

observe things - your demeanor,

your, may I say, certain

'swagger'. 'Cavalryman', that's

how I'd cast you.

He leans forward, whispers.

We've been waiting for you.. .Poor

Poland, Hitler invades from the

West.. .World War,. .days later,

Stalin from the East.

JANUSZ relaxes, smiles.

How could we know Russia would

stab us in the back?

And you were on the Soviet side of

the line, and they arrest you, and

thousands like you. Accuse you of

spying-And they torture you?

You signed a 'confession'?

I wouldn't sign, so they tortured

someone else.

Usual tactics - they torture a

close friend who names you as a

spy - a neighbor? Your old school

teacher? A friend?

KHABAROV looks into JANUSZ's eyes - a pain beyond

speaking. KHABAROV tactfully changes the subject.

I was an actor - moving pictures.

In my last picture I played an

aristocrat. They arrested me

after the film's release.

Why?

It was claimed I was elevating the

status of the old nobility.

You got ten years for a

performance in a film?

I've had better notices.

And they enter their hut.

15 INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT 15

The men sitting or lying on their bunks, a little

conversation here and there but most have withdrawn into

themselves, just glad to have survived another day.

JANUSZ looks about him, KHABAROV still by his side.

JANUSZ's attention is caught by the tattooed group

playing cards by the stove. VALKA is playing BOHDAN

again, his losing streak continuing. KHABAROV speaks

just above a whisper.

The 'Urki'.

Who are they?

Professional criminals, your

ordinary run of the mill murderers

and thieves, don't stare at them.

The guards let them run things in

here. They are to be feared.

Why would they let them 'run

things'?

They are considered the by-product

of bourgeoisie society and

therefore 'Friends of the People'.

We political prisoners are

'Enemies of the People'. Russia

has become one vast prison - slave

labor. You see even this camp is

expanding to take in another

thousand prisoners.

JANUSZ looks over to a group of Asiatic prisoners.

From the far reaches of the Soviet

Empire - all scooped up in the net

like so many minnows, poor

creatures.

And do any ever wriggle out of the

net?

KHABAROV considers a moment, then leads him away from the

surrounding prisoners. He lowers his voice to a whisper.

You should be more careful.

Stalin has eyes and ears

everywhere, even in here.

He leans closer to JANUSZ.

In a camp like this you'll be dead

in a year. If not literally then

in spirit.

And how long have you been here?

(CONTTNTTF.D 1

Eleven months and twenty-nine

days.

KHABAROV offers his hand.

Good night, friend.

16-17 OMITTED 16-17

A18 EXT. THE ZONE, CAMP 105 - DAWN A18

In bone-chilling cold the prisoners form up in their

brigades as a guard begins counting them. JANUSZ looks

toward a barrack building where the bodies of several men

who died overnight are being carried out and laid on the

ground - among them the 'garbage-eater' from the night

impassively ahead. GUARD NO. 1 is visible, checking

paper work at the camp gates.

AB18 EXT. EDGE OF FOREST, ABOVE MINE - DAY AB18

Follow a bird as it hops from branch to branch, pausing

every now and then to listen to the sounds of axes and

saws drifting from the forest floor.

JANUSZ and his friends - VOSS, TOMASZ, KAZIK and ZORAN -

work at trimming felled trees of branches, and then

sawing them into lengths.

SMITH and his gang work nearby. He watches JANUSZ

peeling strips of bark from a pine-tree and stuffing them

in his pocket.

KHABAROV, too, works here with a third gang, cutting and

trimming the trees.

AC18 MINE SITE - DAY AC 18

haul rocks in wooden wheelbarrows from the mine entrance

across a maze of tracks to waiting trucks.

A fire blazes in a 44 gallon drum set up in an open-sided

wooden shelter. Here BOHDAN and his criminal associates

supervise the work. VALKA has fallen on a slippery slope

within the Urka hierarchy following his losses and

growing debt.

16.

AC18 CONTINUED: AC18

BOHDAN amuses himself by throwing stones at VALKA,

warning him away from the fire like a stray dog.

Guards placed at vantage points, stamp their feet to keep

warm, occasionally shouting at the exhausted prisoners to

work harder or move faster. Death is casual here. A man

falls. If found to be dead he is left where he fell,

bodies to be collected and counted at the end of the day.

AD18 EXT. MINE ENTRANCE - DAY AD18

JANUSZ and his group dump a load of trimmed logs in a bay

by the mine entrance. He hesitates as the others move

away, staring into the black hole leading into the

mountain. Eerie sounds drift up from deep below. A look

of utter dread on his face.

18 EXT. EDGE OF FOREST, ABOVE MINE - DUSK 18

The prisoners work hard to fill their quotas - VOSS

swings his axe like a demon, but even with his

contribution the cut pile of logs is a long way from the

mark showing at the top of the storage bay.

BOHDAN, the overseer, moves amongst the various working

gangs, measuring their completed piles of logs. JANUSZ's

group are still only half way to a full quota. KHABAROV

leaves his gang and approaches JANUSZ.

Quickly now, half-quota means half-

rations. Quota is Law here.

No-one could meet that quota even

if they were fed and rested.

KHABAROV calls for them to follow him. He leads them at

a jog deeper into the trees - pointing out various shapes

buried in fallen leaves and drifts of snow. He clears

away the leaves and snow to reveal a pile of old grey cut

timber.

Cut last year and never collected!

Quickly hide them inside your

fresh cut timber!

BOHDAN moving closer. It becomes a race to transport all

the old logs to their pile and to conceal them inside the

fresh cut logs.

They just make it, but BOHDAN notices the end of an old

grey log poking out from the center of the stack. He

stops his measuring of their quota. A tense moment, then

he nods and leaves. KHABAROV crosses from his gang to

join them.

He knows.

KHABAROV shrugs.

He knows, but he doesn't care, as

long as his arse is protected.

This is 'Tufta'. Bull-shit.

JANUSZ nods his thanks.

19-22 OMITTED 19-22

A23 EXT. A DIRT ROAD THROUGH A FOREST - DUSK A23

The long march back to camp. JANUSZ peers left and right

toward the beckoning forest. Beside him ZORAN senses his

friend might just take off then and there. He places a

restraining hand on his arm, as a guard's voice drifts

through the still air:

GUARD NO. 1

A step to the left, a step to the

right, and I shoot!

23 INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT

VOSS and KAZIK are by the stove unwinding their long foot-

cloths that most wear in place of socks. KAZIK hangs the

damp cloths on the stove to dry and sets out to examine

his toes, which are in poor shape, suffering the early

stages of frostbite. TOMASZ sits nearby sketching the

scene on a sheet of birch-bark, using a piece of

charcoal.

WIDER to see VALKA, looking on in admiration. TOMASZ is

uneasy despite the implied compliment. VALKA hands him a

sheet of paper, and the stub of a pencil.

You do for me.

You want me to make a sketch of

you?

No. Not me.

TOMASZ puzzled.

24 A BUNK NEAR THE STOVE - SAME TIME 24

BOHDAN lies on his bunk, surrounded by several of his

tattooed henchmen listening to a story. The storyteller,

looking rather uncomfortable, is ZORAN. His Russian is

good but for a moment his memory fails him as he

desperately tries to recall the next beat in the story.

Keep going and you'll get some

bread - so how does this 'Long

John Silver' find the treasure?

I knew a type like that. Remember

Igor? He had one leg.

Shut up.

(Then to ZORAN)

Go on.

The story resumes, ZORAN giving it all he's got, when

VALKA appears a sketch in his hand. He passes it to

BOHDAN. CLOSE on the sketch - a lusty naked woman.

VALKA makes a gesture implying masturbation. BOHDAN

examines the drawing before licking the back of it,

lifting his shirt, sticking it to his chest, then

lowering his shirt again. He waves VALKA away.

25 JANUSZ'S BUNK - SAME TIME 25

CLOSE on a shirt.

The shirt lies on JANUSZ's bunk and it's moving. A tiny

subtle movement, but just perceptible, the movement

caused by hundreds of lice.

WIDER,

to see this is JANUSZ's view, KHABAROV there too,

watching over his shoulder.

For the lice I have an old folk

remedy.

He picks up the shirt and walks toward the door of the

barrack, indicating JANUSZ should follow. As he passes

his bunk he scoops up his own shirt.

26 EXT. CAMP PERIMETER - NIGHT 26

KHABAROV leads him toward the wire. From somewhere deep

in the bowels of the earth, a low sinister rumbling, the

very ground itself shaking momentarily. JANUSZ stops,

while KHABAROV keeps walking.

The mines. They blast at night.

He pauses to let JANUSZ catch up, then looking furtively

about him, he crouches by a drift of snow.

Shirt.

JANUSZ hands him his shirt. He scrapes a hole in the

snow, buries the shirt, leaving only the tip showing. He

does the same with his own shirt.

We're going to leave them here

overnight? Why?

You'll see.

JANUSZ stares up at the wire, then to a distant

watchtower, its searchlight briefly illuminating him.

KHABAROV follows his eye-line.

It can be done.

JANUSZ holding his breath.

There is a way through the wire.

JANUSZ stares at him.

Lazar, you've seen him, my

associate, overseer of

construction.

He nods toward an area where stockade wall is being

replaced with double wire.

Few ever escape the camps. I've

waited for someone like you,

someone with the strength and will

to see it through.

Can't go West - apart from the

Soviets, there's the Germans.

East? All Soviet right to the

Pacific.. .it would have to be

South?

KHABAROV nods, beams at him like a teacher with a very

bright pupil.

They marched as due North from the

railway, I glimpsed a lake, but I

have no idea where we are.

KHABAROV squats down, JANUSZ joins him, and smoothing out

a drift of snow KHABAROV sketches a map of a lake and

indicates the location of the camp.

We believe about 500 kilometers

north of Lake Baikal.

We could follow the edge of the

Lake, it runs due South.

Then on to the Trans-Siberian

Railway. Cross that and you're

close to the Mongolian border.

And freedom.

( C.ONTTNTTFT) )

JANUSZ's eyes burn with excitement. KHABAROV takes his

arm, as if drawing energy from the younger man.

Spring is already upon us. It

would have to be next autumn.

Why wait?

It's 1000 kilometers to the

border, maybe more. We need

careful planning, stock-pile food.

I've already begun - trading,

dealing. You could do the same.

In the Autumn the weather is

predictable. We need the early

snows to cover our tracks.

JANUSZ nods.

What about my friends?

If you trust them. But they won't

all survive.

But they'd die free men.

KHABAROV offers his hand, and they shake.

A27 INT. BARRACK - NIGHT A27

27 EXT. CAMP - DAWN 27

To the echoing clang of the hammer and iron, JANUSZ and

KHABAROV hurry to where they buried their clothing.

CLOSE on the tips of the cloth showing above the snow - a

teeming mound of lice on each.

WIDER, as they shake their clothing free of the lice, and

hurry over to join the assembly of prisoners at the

kitchen servery window for their meagre breakfast ration.

At the same time the morning ritual of carrying out the

bodies of those who have died overnight is underway. The

corpses are stacked like cords of wood for burial.

JANUSZ pauses, a muttered prayer on his lips. Then he's

passing the hospital barracks - the usual crowd of

desperately ill prisoners hoping to be admitted, to be

excused another day of the killing work, the majority

turned away. He joins the line at the kitchen. The

days' bread ration is being weighed and issued. If not

exactly 500 grams a little is added or subtracted, the

cook keeping trimmed slices, placing them in a tin.

28 EXT. THE ZONE/CAMP EXTERIOR - DAWN 28

Having been counted once, inside the camp, the brigade of

prisoners is marched outside the gates where the armed

guards who will escort them to work are waiting. GUARD

NO. 1 begins counting them again. It's much colder than

usual, prisoners beating their arms to keep warm, a high

wind blowing. Khabarov stands with JANUSZ.

Temperature is dropping. Below 60

they're not supposed to send us

out. Know how to tell the

temperature? You see frosty fog -

it's 40 below. If you exhale

50 below. When your spit freezes?

More than 60 below.

A30 EXT. ROAD THROUGH FOREST - DAY A30

The freezing wind has picked up considerably, driving

sleet against the column of prisoners, forcing them to a

halt in an open snow-covered area. The column halts, the

guards anxiously confer - 'to go back or continue on'?

The prisoners shiver in the biting cold, some collapse,

their fellow prisoners unwilling or unable to help them.

JANUSZ and his friends find themselves near SMITH and

watch as he hails a GUARD.

(Shouts in Russian)

We need to make shelter.

GUARD NO. 1

Who asked you?

We'll freeze to death in less than

an hour.

GUARD NO. 1

I couldn't give a fuck if you drop

dead right now.

A30 CONTINUED: A30

The GUARD dimly considers this. The prisoners begin to

stir, some shouting out that they should turn back. The

GUARD alarmed, orders the prisoners to the ground - other

guards level their rifles as the mass of men lay down on

the freezing ground. All but SMITH.

We could move into the forest,

find shelter!

GUARD NO. 1

Lie down!

The GUARD is about to leave when to his astonishment, and

that of the other prisoners, SMITH begins to walk toward

the forest edging the road. The GUARD draws his pistol.

On the ground ZORAN lies beside JANUSZ, as they watch the

unfolding drama.

GUARD NO. 1 shouts for SMITH to return, others raise

their rifles, waiting for his order to fire. He is

conflicted, and after a tense moment gestures for them to

lower their weapons.

GUARD NO. 1 (CONT'D)

Let the prisoners take shelter in

the trees! Shoot anyone who makes

a run for it!

JANUSZ stares after SMITH, admiring of his reckless

courage.

AB30 FOREST, LATER - DAY AB30

The men work frantically collecting fallen timber. SMITH

watches as VOSS picks up a massive log, places it on his

shoulder and carries it to where JANUSZ is supervising

the building of their shelter. Most of the other

prisoners have just piled snow up around bundles of

sticks to make windbreaks, but JANUSZ is building

something more elaborate. SMITH's eyes miss nothing as

he notes JANUSZ's skill and the way the others work as a

team under his direction.

AB30 CONTINUED: AB30

Some distance away VALKA huddles alone against the trunk

of a tree. He too, is watching JANUSZ organize shelter

for the group.

AC30 LATER STILL.

You are brave man - Dragan Zoran,

Yugoslav this is Janusz

Wieszczek the youngster is

Kazik, both Polish.

(They nod to SMITH)

Andrejs Voss, Latvian.

(It's a League of Nations.)

English our common language!

SMITH nods.

And you're ?

Smith.

Your first name?

Mister.

Mister Smith?

That's right.

As the blizzard grows in intensity, JANUSZ reaches into

his pocket for strips of pine-bark collected earlier. He

hands them out to his companions. They watch as he chews

on the bark. The others follow his example.

Watching from a short distance away is GUARD NO. 1. He

takes note of the group as future troublemakers.

AD30 INT. BARRACKS - DAWN AD30

30 INT. MINE - DAY 30

A labyrinth of twisting tunnels leading down into the

frozen earth. Dim lights silhouette ghostly figures

working with pick and shovel. Occasionally the muffled

sound of a distant explosion as a gallery is blasted yet

deeper. Mingling with these eerie sounds something more

sinister - the hacking coughs of those who've done the

most time in this frozen hell.

The man working beside JANUSZ wields a pick, JANUSZ

shovelling out the rock as it breaks up. The man pauses

to light a smoke. His fingers have moulded themselves

into the shape of his pick-handle - they are like hooks,

the man unable to straighten his fingers. He holds the

cigarette with the tips of his fingers, as if his hand

was an artificial limb. JANUSZ looks around desperately,

fighting off an overwhelming feeling of claustrophobia.

Despite the cold, sweat beads on his forehead.

31 INT. DEEPER IN THE MINE - DAY 31

KAZIK and a man known as 'THE PROF', drag a cart laden

with rock up a steep incline. They wear horse collars

attached to the cart by leather harnesses.

26.

THE PROF's wasted frame and sallow complexion are in

contrast to his lively intelligent eyes. He says

something to KAZIK in Russian. He shakes his head. He

doesn't speak Russian. THE PROF tries German, then

English.

English, yes.

They share a smile.

I was only saying, these collars -

the same used by ancient Egyptian

people.

Yes, but on their horses probably.

No. Same. On people.

How do you know that?

I was professor of Egyptology.

Leningrad University.

KAZIK manages a look at his companion, before putting

even more effort into dragging the load.

32 INT. ANOTHER PART OF THE MINE - DAY 32

A man, enveloped in clouds of white steam, points a long

pipe at the frozen rock and gravel - the heat making it

easier for the pick and shovel men to dig. This is the

'POINT-MAN', and he opens and shuts valves on the pipe-

stem which regulates the hot steam that travels along

pipes leading back to a primitive boiler. Men try to

warm themselves by working near the POINT-MAN, and when

the guards are not around they clutch the pipes in their

hands gaining a few moments of precious warmth.

SMITH knows how to work the system and has found a spot

here working beside the POINT-MAN. He looks across to

see JANUSZ staggering up the slope toward the distant

mine entrance, where a guard can be seen silhouetted

against the light. He watches a moment, something not

right about JANUSZ. He lays his shovel aside and hurries

after him.

27.

33 INT./EXT. TUNNEL - DAY 33

JANUSZ scrambling toward the surface. He stumbles, falls

to his knees. He looks down, sees something on the

ground.

JANUSZ'S VISION - DAY

He clears away the debris to reveal a stone path.

Looking up he sees the path leads to a gate framed by a

hedge. His P.O.V. as he moves up the path to the gate.

His unseen hand opens the gate. Now the view is of the

path as he walks forward - a series of worn flagstones,

then the camera tilts up to see a closed front door. A

pan to the left of the door - to see a loose brick in the

wall.

34 INT./EXT. TUNNEL - DAY 34

CLOSE on JANUSZ, as SMITH is suddenly beside him,

grabbing his arm and swinging him into the darkness of an

adjoining tunnel.

Are you crazy? They'll shoot you.

Got to get out!

SMITH stares at him. He's delirious and begins to shake

with cold. SMITH grabs his shoulder and drags him back

to where the POINT'-MAN works, thrusting JANUSZ's hands

around the pipe. The POINT-MAN waves them away but SMITH

bribes him with a slice of bread. SMITH turns back to

JANUSZ - the warmth of the pipe beginning to have its

effect.

It can be done.

What can be done?

He knows a way through the wire.

SMITH slaps a hand over his mouth, glancing at the Point-

Man, before dragging JANUSZ further away.

28.

He has a plan.

Who?

His name is Khabarov.

Now SMITH understands.

The actor.

You know him?

He has no intention of escaping.

What?

He's aliar. Been here foryears

-seeksout new arrivals, mewhen

Ifirstcame here. He justlikes

totalkabout escape. I'veknown

others like him.

Why should I believe you?

(shakes his head)

Nothing is for nothing in the

camps. From you he gets your

energy, your spirit. You feed his

'dream' of escape. You help keep

him alive. He's no more than a

leech.

You're a cold bastard, Mister.

I'm still alive, that's all I

know. But I won't be in six

months. And neither will you.

Not in the mines. So, if you're

serious about making a run for it -

I'm in.

29.

I thought you were a loner?

Can't be done alone. Besides you

have a weakness that could be

useful to me.

And what's that?

Compassion. If anything happens

to me, I'm counting on you

carrying me.

JANUSZ knows he's not joking.

35 EXT. CAMP KITCHEN, SAME TIME - NIGHT 35

36 INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT 36

JANUSZ has a puzzled KHABAROV by the arm, guiding him

back to the door.

37 EXT. BARRACKS - NIGHT 37

He points to the ground - CLOSE on footprints as they

rapidly disappear under the heavy snowfall.

Tonight.

KHABAROV looks from the footprints to JANUSZ, a horrified

look on his face.

It's a passing storm!

It'll do, it'll cover our tracks.

Impossible! We need preparation,

detailed plans, maps

The timing will never be perfect,

they won't expect it now!

But the distances! And food!

What about food?

We've been trading, the American

is with us. He has food, you have

food.

How long will that last?

I've spent half my life in the

woods and mountains. We'll live

off the land.

It can't be done!

JANUSZ shocked at the change in his friends' demeanor,

the appalling realization that SMITH was right about him.

He seizes his arm.

How do we get through the wire?

I don't know what you're talking

about.

Your friend, Lazar, he knows

doesn't he?

A look of fear crosses KHABAROV's face. Someone behind

JANUSZ. JANUSZ turns. VALKA, a few paces away watching

them. KHABAROV scuttles back inside the barracks.

JANUSZ hesitates a moment, then follows.

A38 INT. BARRACKS - NIGHT A38

doing everything by feel. As they move away VOSS

whispers to him.

You can't see, can you?

A look of panic crosses the boy's face.

Don't leave me behind!

VOSS conflicted.

Promise me, Andrejs! I could keep

a hand on your shoulder by night,

and in the day I can see just

fine. I won't hold you up.

Please don't tell them. I'll die

here.

JANUSZ and SMITH sit in a darkened corner working on

LAZAR. They want to know how to get through the wire.

He is reluctant until SMITH produces a wristwatch from

his boot. The strapless watch, of good make, settles the

deal, just as the light flickers and goes out plunging

the barracks into darkness.

AB38 EXT. THE CAMP - NIGHT AB38

Several shots of the wind driven snow whipping about the

buildings.

38 INT. BARRACKS - LATER THAT NIGHT 38

The wooden building creaks and heaves like a ship at sea

as the storm builds into a fully fledged blizzard. The

sounds of the sleeping men, the usual cries and groans,

hacking coughs, all mix into the howl of the storm.

CLOSE on the conspirators lying awake - SMITH, VOSS,

KAZIK, TOMASZ and ZORAN. SMITH looks across to JANUSZ,

catches his eye. A signal from JANUSZ, 'not yet'.

KHABAROV too, is awake. He jumps at any unexpected

sound, checks his horde of food in the hiding place at

the base of his bunk, as if expecting at any moment to be

attacked and robbed. He sees a shadow. Someone moving

about near him, a look of terror on his face.

LATER,

JANUSZ lies on his back listening to the storm. A

movement beside him, then a knife pressed against his

throat. It's VALKA. He grins, steel-capped teeth, his

cross dangling from his neck. JANUSZ goes still.

There are no secrets here.

What do you want?

The game goes against me. Small

debt - lose fingers. Big debt,

they take head. Me, big debt.

But one thing I never gamble is my

Wolf.

He removes the knife from JANUSZ's throat, tilts the

blade to show a wolf's head incised into the blade.

In forest you need knife to

survive. Without? A miracle.

He leans in close to JANUSZ's ear.

You need a knife, and I need

miracle to get me out of here.

With a conjurer's ease he spins the knife in his fingers

and arches his eyebrows - 'Deal'?

33.

39 EXT. CAMP PERIMETER - DAWN 39

Heavy snow still falling as shadowy figures run toward

the wire. Shouted commands and the beam of a searchlight

isolates them - not the fugitives, but a group of guards.

They've found a gap in the wire. A great yelping and

baying as the dog-handlers join them, releasing the dogs

into the gap, then following them toward the distant

forest.

40 EXT. FOREST, SIBERIA - DAWN 40

Then seven fugitives, now including VALKA, weave in and

out of the trees at a fast jog. Snow whirls about them,

as, gasping for breath, they attempt to keep up with

JANUSZ. In the rear KAZIK holds onto VOSS' rope belt,

occasionally stumbling, but VOSS has him up and on his

feet fast enough to keep up with the others.

JANUSZ pauses briefly every now and then to study the

moss growing on the North side of tree-trunks, before

plunging on Southward.

They top a rise to a clearing and pause to catch their

breath. The snow continues to fall but JANUSZ will allow

no rest and moves off without a backward glance.

Is it time for me to carry you?

SMITH waves him away, gets up and continues.

43 EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - DAY 43

A feeble light penetrates the forest as day begins. The

snow still falling heavily as the men stumble into a deep

depression, and facing a steep climb find they can go no

further. KAZIK turns his face to the light. His sight

is returning with the day and he nods gratefully to VOSS.

In the deep stillness the sound of distant voices. They

look about them. Hard to tell the direction of the

sound. JANUSZ is on his feet - there's plenty of fallen

timber but no obvious place to hide. He draws a circle

in the snow, mimes digging to the others, then turns to

VALKA, whispers.

Knife .

VALKA has never taken an order from a 'Political' in his

short life.

What?

Your knife.

With a glance to the others he reluctantly draws his

knife from his boot and passes it to JANUSZ.

While the group furiously dig, JANUSZ collects and trims

fallen timber. As the hole deepens, JANUSZ begins to

make a trellis roof. The voices change direction. They

go still. Are they surrounded? They resume their

digging with greater intensity, the hole now more than a

meter at its deepest, JANUSZ placing the branches to

cover their hide.

44-46 OMITTED 44-46

A47 EXT FOREST - DAY A47

snow falling.

AB47 EXT. THE HIDE, FOREST - DAY AB47

Camera moves slowly toward their hide, wisps of vapor

rise from below the surface. The Russian voices are

closer now.

AC47 INT. THE HIDE - DAY AC47

It's like an Indian sweat-lodge as the fugitives sit

shoulder to shoulder in a tight circle, ears straining,

sweat running down their faces. The voices closer still.

A tense moment, and then they are passing, the voices

fading into silence.

47 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE, SIBERIA - NIGHT 47

The strong wind drives snow and sleet horizontally, and

as they push forward they cover their faces to keep the

snow from throat and lungs. VALKA, his arm wrapped

defensively across his eyes, staggers and falls to his

knees. JANUSZ turns back, drags him to his feet. KAZIK

hangs onto the back of VOSS' coat, VOSS at times

literally dragging him along.

48 EXT. A TREE, FOREST - NIGHT 48

With VALKA's knife JANUSZ cuts a square of bark, pulls it

from the tree, cuts two triangular holes some centimeters

apart, then rams the base of the bark piece into VALKA'S

collar. It's a crude mask.

49 EXT. THE PROCESSION, FOREST - NIGHT 49

The group, all now wearing the improvised snow-masks,

push forward against the wind, looking like a tribe from

some distant age dressed in ceremonial masks.

50 EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE FOREST - NIGHT. 50

JANUSZ in the lead, some fifty paces ahead, but he's

stopped, thigh-deep in the snow, as still as a statue.

The others catch up, puzzled. SMITH calls to him, lifts

his mask. He's asleep. SMITH shakes him back to

consciousness, all the while the storm continues at full

force.

We've got to make fire!

No! You saw how close they were!

KAZIK sinks to the snow, then ZORAN.

We die either way, might as well

die warm.

A51 EXT. FOREST, LATER - NIGHT A51

A hole scraped out of the snow and a wind-break of fallen

timber, is all they can manage in their exhausted state.

Down in the hole JANUSZ is striking a spark from a flint.

Some are fading fast, KAZIK keeps falling asleep, to be

shaken awake by TOMASZ. MR. SMITH is splitting wood into

ever finer shavings, ready to feed a nascent fire. Still

the damp kindling will not catch.

They draw closer together for warmth, draping their arms

over each other's shoulders. ZORAN's head drops to his

chest. TOMASZ shakes him.

Sleep and you die. Tell us a

story.

A51 CONTINUED: A51

The other look to ZORAN, and fighting the desire to

sleep, he begins. VALKA loves a good story, and despite

their desperate situation he listens with the attention

and concentration of a small child.

Once upon a time, in the days of

wooden ships, there was a great

storm in far away seas. A

merchant ship hurried toward big

rocks, lightening in the sky, the

waves as high as house-tops.

Very, very cold, brrr! The ship

smashed onto the rocks, the

sailors cried in fear, called out

to God, but they all drowned. All

but one, Mr. Robinson Crusoe. He

woke to find himself all alone on

a desert island. For many years

he lived without any human

companions, until one day he saw

something shocking! What was it?

A human footprint. He was no

longer alone. But was the

stranger friend or foe? Another

ship wrecked sailor? Or, a

cannibal?

All turn as a flicker of flame begins at the base of the

kindling. While JANUSZ blows at the flame, MR. SMITH

feeds in small shavings. The group watch with the awe

and wonder usually reserved for child-birth. Then

everyone is making a contribution - adding a few leaves,

or tiny twigs, like offerings, as the fire grows and

spreads.

AB51 EXT. FOREST, CAMPFIRE - DAWN AB51

A comfortable blaze, the group, minus JANUSZ, sleep or

drowse in the life-giving warmth, when a pile of snow

lands on the fire. The others react. It's JANUSZ. He

heaps on more snow and the fire sputters out.

By the time the others are on their feet JANUSZ is almost

out of sight and they hurry to catch up, fearful of being

left behind.

AC51 EXT./INT. SHELTER, FOREST - DAY AC51

Ruins, deep in the forest. From the overgrown rubble

they build a shelter, discovering as they do, evidence

that this was once a small, remote, Soviet gulag.

AC51 CONTINUED: AC51

LATER, the fugitives sit shoulder to shoulder in a tight

circle. They shiver in their padded jackets, rub frozen

limbs. VALKA looks up to find SMITH staring at him.

You stare at me like the snake at

the rabbit or is it the other

way 'round?

VALKA turns to the others with a silver-toothed smile,

indicates SMITH.

He teach me English. Speak good,

huh? Bread for words, wasn't it

cowboy?

SMITH holds his gaze a moment before being distracted by

a thumping sound outside. The group go very still. A

second thump, overhead this time. VALKA draws his knife.

A trickle of snow falls through the vent in the roof.

Snow, falling from trees.

They relax a little.

When can we travel by day?

When I say.

AC51 CONTINUED: (2) AC51

KAZIK glances at VOSS.

How far have we come?

Twenty, thirty kilometers.

Is that all?

Less, if we've been going in

circles, like the chicken without

its head.

How can you tell we're heading

South?

He reads the trees, don't you?

Something like that.

He spreads out a piece of cloth on the snow at his feet.

Alright, let's see what you've

got.

No one moves. JANUSZ reaches into his own pockets,

emptying the contents onto the cloth - several slices of

bread, half a kilo of buckwheat, some dried meat, a

swatch of tobacco. SMITH goes next with a larger store

of bread and a little salt. VOSS has a collection of

small fish-heads which he adds to the store. TOMASZ,

KAZIK and ZORAN make their contributions. They stare

grimly at their limited food supply. Various other items

are added - a razor blade, a length of cord, a piece of

barbed-wire, etc. SMITH picks up the barbed wire,

examines it.

Valka?

VALKA reluctantly reaches into his coat - something

familiar about it with its distinctive fur-lined collar.

That's Khabarov's coat.

AC51 CONTINUED: ( 3) AC51

He smiles at JANUSZ as he produces a bulging sack from

inside his coat.

VALKA (CONT'D.)

Yes...and...

From the sack he produces KHABAROV's hoarded supply of

food and other items. Off JANUSZ's reaction -

He was going to inform. Don't

worry. I talk to him. Everything

o.k.

He puts the goods back in the sack and goes to place it

inside his coat.

We share.

JANUSZ reaches out for the sack of food. VALKA glances

at the others, then passes it to him. TOMASZ has already

begun to organize seven slices of bread laying one of

VOSS's fish heads on each. one. He hands them out. They

eat in silence, savoring every bite. ZORAN removes the

fish-head, passing it back to TOMASZ. Then he places a

thin layer of snow on the bread like a canape. He eats

daintily, his little finger extended like a dowager at a

tea party, raising a smile from his exhausted companions.

AD51 EXT. FOREST - NIGHT. AD51

The wind is rising, whipping flurries of snow through the

trees. SMITH and JANUSZ are in the lead. SMITH refers

back to VALKA.

You've made a bargain with the

Devil.

Have you got a knife?

They move on in silence, JANUSZ not liking his bargain

any more than SMITH.

AE51 LATER, THAT NIGHT AE51

SMITH finds himself walking beside VALKA.

AE51 CONTINUED: AE51

For direction he looks at grass

and mosses, what's that? I swear

to God he better know what he's

doing.

You should be grateful you're here

at all.

Gratitude is for dogs.

He moves away from SMITH, his eyes fixed on JANUSZ, who

is again studying moss on the side of a tree.

51 EXT. FOREST - DAWN 51

The group in the shelter of the trees. The sky is

overcast but at least it's not too cold. Everywhere

about is deep snow from the recent storm. TOMASZ

prepares a meal from their dry rations, small portions

for men who have expended so much energy. KAZIK examines

his swollen blistered feet. VALKA has his boots off,

shaking them.

VALKA (TO KAZIK)

Clean inside boots, foot-cloths.

KAZIK copies him.

Man on run - one tiny piece of

sand can make cripple, I swear to

God.

The others are listening, and some do likewise.

52 EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 52

With lengths of wood as 'ski-poles', the group begin to

make up lost time. VOSS has lashed his rope-belt to

KAZIK who walks behind him. SMITH wonders about this,

but says nothing. They pause at the top of a rise

amongst the trees, on hearing the sound of dogs howling

from behind.

Wolves it's only wolves.

A53 THE SUN

second marker - about a foot in length. Then he stands,

and with the toe of his left foot at the first pine-cone

and the toe of his right foot at the end of the line in

the snow, he points, calling to them.

South! To Lake Baikal!

A62 LATER STILL - DAY

The group push on with renewed energy. VALKA hurries to

keep up with JANUSZ.

You are the 'Pakhan'.

What's 'Pakhan'?

A62 CONTINUED: A62

Boss of criminals.

We're not criminals, we're

escaping from criminals.

I swear to God you win my respect

with your sticks and pine-cones.

I'll stand between you and death.

You want to be my bodyguard?

It's the Urka way. You have me

and you have the Wolf.

He touches the knife in its bark sheath at his belt.

JANUSZ increases the pace, VALKA pushing himself to keep

up with his 'Pakhan'.

62 EXT. LATER, FIRESIDE - DUSK 62

The fugitives settle for the coming night. As TOMASZ

unpacks their meagre food supply JANUSZ sketches a map on

a piece of birch-bark. The other sit exhausted, some

close to sleep, except SMITH who is working the piece of

barbed wire from KHABAROV's stash.

JANUSZ (V.0.)

I have us here somewhere.

Above Lake Baikal their former camp is marked. South of

the lake, the Trans-Siberian Railway, a little further

South the Russo/Mongolian border. With a twig he points

to a spot seemingly not far from the prison camp.

WIDER to see the disappointed faces of the group - the

distance yet to cover overwhelming.

Are you going all the way?

To Mongolia? No. I go further.

To America.

The first SMITH has heard of this. TOMASZ turns from

examining their store of food.

(C.ONTTNUTED )

We have food for another week.

We need meat.

I can make traps.

We'll be moving too fast to wait

for traps.

We find farms, villages, get food

there.

There's a bounty on our heads.

We steal it. At night. They

never know.

We're not thieves.

Then I'll steal it, and I'll eat.

You can watch.

SMITH is working the length of barbed-wire someone added

earlier to their communal store. His fingers are

bleeding as he struggles to separate the strands of wire.

ZORAN (TO SMITH)

What's that?

Barbed-wire.

ZORAN puzzled, but TOMASZ gets it.

He's making a fish-hook.

JANUSZ smiles at SMITH's ingenuity.

It's how we'll survive isn't it,

Mister?

Fish? I don't eat fish.

Then you'll die.

KAZIK has a far-away look in his sight-less eyes. He

speaks in Polish to JANUSZ.

What does he say?

He asked Janusz if he believes in

God's forgiveness.

This has come from seemingly nowhere.

Save your philosophy. Concentrate

on keeping up with us instead.

He gets up and goes in search of more wood, the others

surprised at his cold tone.

The rest of the group also begin to prepare their camp.

Most gather wood while TOMASZ, the 'quartermaster', makes

their meal, and JANUSZ the fire. VOSS keeps an eye on

KAZIK who, demonstrating his independence while it's

still light, and his desire to contribute, returns with a

load of wood, turning back into the forest for more.

Others gather wood, and as the light fades, begin to take

up positions by the growing fire, roll cigarettes, etc.

VOSS looks anxiously for KAZIK. He has not returned.

A65 EXT. FOREST - DUSK A65

KAZIK lost. He moves along a right to left trajectory,

i.e. North, heading away for the campsite, his sight

beginning to fade with the light.

65 EXT. CAMPSITE - NIGHT 65

The group range out from the fire calling KAZIK's name.

VOSS turns to JANUSZ.

He has night-blindness.

66 EXT. FOREST - NIGHT 66

KAZIK stumbling through the whiteout. He stops. Did he

hear his name? He moves on, pleased to find by his side

the Professor from the mine.

45.

I thought I was alone!

PROF.

I've been walking with you for

some time.

I'll just sit for a minute.

The PROF. sits beside him.

PROF.

Not far to go.

He points, and KAZIK sees - the Pyramids of Giza, deep

inside the fog.

We made it. We really made it.

Isn't that something.

67 EXT. CAMPSITE - DAWN 67

They find KAZIK not a hundred yards from where they

camped. The weather has broken, the fog gone. He sits

looking toward them, his bare feet stretched out before

him, his eyes wide open. On his lips a frozen smile.

68 EXT. A CAIRN OF STONES - DAY 68

They stand by his grave.

A free man died here today.

Amens are muttered. The group remain by the grave

reluctant to leave. All but VALKA who looks about

restlessly.

Young always die first.

The others look at him.

In the camps.

He looks at their somber faces.

Still, one less mouth to feed

what? You're all thinking the

same thing.

A69 A STREAM, FOREST - DAY A69

Lived in the woods a while.

In America.

In America.

And how did you come to be in

Russia?

I made a mistake.

69 EXT. SIBERIAN WILDERNESS - TIMELAPSE - DAY/DUSK/DAWN 69

High, wide, panoramas, the tiny figures of the fugitives

threading their way through the trees heading steadily

Southward.

70 EXT. SIBERIAN WILDERNESS - DAY 70

Close on Nature naturing - birds calling from high

branches, bees buzzing, a grub crawling along a leaf.

And a large animal grazing. Or what appears at first to

be an animal.

It's VALKA, on all fours, picking up and eating bugs.

Others are there grazing too. The weeks have taken their

toll and they look thin and starving. We see in detail

their search for anything edible: hands digging out

roots and berries of various kinds which are tested with

a tentative nibble and sometimes spat out if too bitter;

VOSS has made a small trap - a noose rigged on a branch

and just beyond it a nut. A squirrel watches.

Not all food is shared in this extreme situation and

some, with a furtive look about them, eat what they find.

71 EXT. CAVE - SAME TIME - DAY

ZORAN watches idly from where he lies near the cave

entrance.

They'll find our bones and your

drawings a hundred years from now,

and say - 'a fine example of Early

Gulag Man'.

Shut up with your jokes! Go and

find food like the others.

You do the shutting up! Drawing

like you're on holiday. I'm sick.

I cook. They find food. What do

you ever do? Nothing!

I make them laugh.

Not any more.

ZORAN turns away from him, curling up into a foetal

position.

72 EXT./INT. CAVE - DUSK

73 EXT. CAVE - DUSK

TOMASZ has water boiling on the fire. He calls to the

What do you have? Come on, no

holding back.

SMITH approaches from the cave, hands over two small

fish, his day's catch. VOSS steps forward with a dead

squirrel. VALKA has nothing. TOMASZ reaches for their

cooking pot cooling by the fire. He passes a cup to

JANUSZ.

Pine-needle tea.

48.

JANUSZ sips, reacts to the bitterness of the brew,then

passes it on.

74 EXT./INT. CAVE - NIGHT 74

Sleeping figures by the fire. TOMASZ tosses and turns,

muttering in his sleep. JANUSZ is awake as is VALKA who

sits close beside him. A whispered conversation -

Who will be first?

JANUSZ looks at him.

You mean the first to die?

VALKA nods, indicates TOMASZ.

I think that sucker, the artist.

But better if it was him.

He nods toward ZORAN.

It might be you.

VALKA shrugs.

Why 'better' if it's Zoran?

VALKA squeezes the flesh of his upper arms.

More soft. More tender.

JANUSZ shakes his head, 'no'.

Mister only gets little fish now.

We must have meat, or we die.

You're the Pakhan, you've thought

of it. We all have. That's why

you brought extra people isn't it?

For food? An old Urka escape

trick. I swear to God you were an

Urka in another life.

We'll get food when we get to Lake

Baikal, plenty of fish there.

49.

You said we should have seen Lake

a week ago. We're lost, Pakhan.

JANUSZ stares into the fire as VALKA lays down to sleep.

A75 LATER, NIGHT

It is ZORAN's turn on watch and he stands near the

entrance to the cave, his blanket about his shoulders,

looking out into the still night. Behind him a low

growling sound, coming from deep in the cave. He turns,

a look of terror on his face. He can see nothing but a

dim light deep in the cave where moonlight penetrates

through two large holes in the cave roof. He wakes

JANUSZ, alerting him to the sound. JANUSZ in turn wakes

VALKA, and after taking burning sticks from the fire they

walk back inside the vast cave toward the source of the

sound, VALKA drawing his knife.

75 INT. CAVE - NIGHT

The dim light shows a wolf-pack growling as they pick at

a carcass on the cave floor. They drop their bones and

face the intruders, baring their fangs, all now growling.

On a signal from JANUSZ they rush the wolves, who run

back toward another exit from the cave. MR. SMITH,

TOMASZ and VOSS come hurrying to join them, woken by all

the barking and shouting.

VALKA falls on part of the carcass, cutting off chunks of

raw meat. The others do likewise. Wider on the group,

down on all fours chewing on the remains of the kill,

only JANUSZ stands back, watching them.

EXT./INT. CAVE - EARLY MORNING 76

Some sleep on, others stir, their movements slow and

listless. They are near the end. This has been JANUSZ's

point of view as he packs a few scraps of food into his

pockets and picks up his staff. Those awake stare at

him.

I'll be back in a week - if I find

the lake. If not, you're on your

own.

I come too.

(shakes his head)

I'll travel faster alone. Mr.

Smith will be the Pakhan while I'm

gone.

JANUSZ turns and with a nod of the head 'follow me', to

SMITH, he moves off.

77 EXT. SOME DISTANCE FROM CAMP - DAWN 77

Now out of earshot, JANUSZ turns to SMITH. SMITH knows

what it's about.

I know. Valka.

Don't let him out of your sight.

Good luck.

As JANUSZ heads off into the forest.

78 EXT. OPEN COUNTRY, SIBERIA - DAY 78

A magnificent vista - a broad plain sweeping toward a

distant line of hills. It's a beautiful clear day and

the lone figure of JANUSZ, dwarfed by the landscape,

walks steadily Southward.

79 EXT. ROCKY HILLSIDE - DUSK 79

Sheltering from the wind on the leeside of a hill, he

takes pine-cones from his pocket, breaks them open and

eats the seeds. Then he's up and off again, leaning

heavily on his staff.

80 EXT. A BARREN PLAIN - DAY 80

The weather changes from a clear Spring morning to cold

and overcast as gusts of wind whip down from distant

slopes. JANUSZ bends into the wind, his pace slowing.

He stumbles, sinks to the ground, fighting the desire to

let go, to give himself to sleep, and the swift death

that will surely follow. His eyes begin to close. Then

he sees it. Just ahead of him. The gate. The gate from

his vision in the mine. He struggles to his feet,

staggers on -

51.

JANUSZ'S VISION: A repeat of his earlier hallucination -

the click of the gate latch, the flagstones at his feet

as he moves down the path. (All the while the

accompanying sound is of JANUSZ's laboured breathing in

the present 'reality'). He's at the front door, camera

pans to the loose brick in the wall beside the door.

81 EXT. CAMPSITE, FOREST - DUSK 81

JANUSZ staggers back into camp, half dead and shivering

with cold. VALKA is quickly beside him with SMITH and

VOSS.

Three days from here. South by

West.

He collapses. VOSS shouts for the fire to be built up,

hot water to be boiled. He feels his pulse, checks his

eyes.

Stones! Gather stones! Heat them

in the fire!

82 EXT. CAMPSITE, STILL LATER - NIGHT 82

Throughout the night they take turns replacing the hot

stones surrounding his body and massaging his feet and

hands. On one such occasion SMITH finds himself at

JANUSZ's side. JANUSZ opens his eyes.

What's the 'brick'?

What did I say?

Something about a loose brick.

JANUSZ nods, offers no explanation.

You know if you don't pull through

soon we'll have to leave you.

I expect nothing less.

So you better get better quick if

you want to see home again.

We could've used you in the Polish

army. Fired you out of a cannon.

He closes his eyes, lapses back into a deep sleep.

84 EXT. HILLSIDE, SIBERIA - DUSK 84

It's a beautiful evening as the file of travellers climb

toward the crest of the hill.

85 EXT. MOUNTAIN, SIBERIA - DUSK 85

through.

I swear to God, those mother-

fuckers would cut off our heads,

take them to secret police. Get

more for us than they would for

their fish.

JANUSZ, impatient to move on, is already on his feet.

ZORAN rolls onto his back with a groan.

86-87 OMITTED 86-87

88 EXT. A TRACK, LAKESIDE - DAY 88

SMITH and VOSS are last in line as they move cautiously

along a dirt track. SMITH keeps looking back over his

shoulder.

What is it?

Revised 2/25/09 (Pink) 54.

SMITH signals JANUSZ to stop, while holding a finger to

his lips for silence. JANUSZ joins him, followed by the

others.

We're being followed.

Followed? Where?

Fifty yards back. A man on his

own. May have seen us - crossed

into the trees beside the track.

A silence as they consider their options. VALKA draws

his knife.

No killing.

No? I think you've killed before.

You say too many prayers for an

innocent man.

VOSS looks uneasy.

He gives us away, the soldiers

will be on us in no time.

Valka, go back on the other side

of the track, then come up behind,

in case he makes a run for it.

VALKA moves off, gliding through the trees on the left of

the track. The others wait a beat, then move into the

trees on the right side of the track picking up fallen

timber as weapons.

JANUSZ is in the lead when in a clearing not fifty paces

ahead, a figure steps out from behind a tree. JANUSZ

stops, holding up a hand for the others to stay where

they are. He stares at the small figure - a young woman.

There's a glimpse of a dirty skirt under her coat, a

scarf tied loosely about her neck. Wisps of chestnut

hair stray out from under a moth-eaten fur hood. She

looks frightened and desperate.

55.

From her waif like appearance, it's hard to tell her age

- an old thirteen or a young sixteen?

The men discreetly drop their irovised weapons. She

looks ready to make a run for it on seeing VALKA with his

drawn knife. JANUSZ gestures for the others to fall

back, as he cautiously approaches, uttering reassuring

words.

89 EXT. PATHWAY, WOODS - LATER - DAY 89

The others sit smoking by the pathway, watching as JANUSZ

crosses back from the GIRL to join them.

He says something to TOMASZ in Polish. A rapid exchange

between them.

What? What is it?

She's Polish. Been following us

for several days.

What does she want?

Food? Protection? She's been too

afraid to approach us until she

was sure we weren't Russians.

She wants to travel with us?

She's on the run, like us.

Escaped from a Russian collective

farm.

I swear to God I know this type -

street gypsies, there are

thousands like that, less use than

a dog!

JANUSZ looks back to the GIRL who watches them from the

clearing.

Pakhan. Don't do this.

She's starving.

We can't feed ourselves.

Zoran?

Maybe it's kinder to leave her.

She's been sent to us. We can't

leave her.

We have no choice.

JANUSZ knows this is true.

90 EXT.THE CLEARING, WOODS - DAY 90

titled).

I'm sorry.

He reaches into his bag, passes her a fish and some nuts

and berries. It's all she can do to refrain from eating

it right away.

What will you do?

Go back.

He guesses at what this might mean.

If we had enough food

She stares at him, nods, then walks back toward the path,

returning in the direction from which she came.

91 EXT. PATHWAY, WOODS - DAY 91

The group walk in silence, the encounter with the girl

and their subsequent decision weighing heavily on some.

VOSS keeps looking back over his shoulder.

92 EXT. LAKESIDE - DAY 92

LATER, the group walking out in the open by the lake when

their attention is caught by the sight of a flock of

ravens circling and diving on something up ahead - just

out of sight around a bend in the lake.

93 EXT. LAKESIDE, MOMENTS LATER - DAY 93

SMITH is the first to see it - a full grown reindeer

bogged to the shoulders in the soft mud by the lake's

edge. As they approach the ravens rise in a great

flapping of wings. The group circle the wild-eyed beast,

pathetic in it's attempts to pull itself out of the bog,

faced now with this new and more deadly threat. VALKA

draws his knife.

94 EXT. A COVE, LAKESIDE - DAY 94

TOMASZ already has a fire going when the rest of the

party appear dragging the carcass of the reindeer on an

improvised sled made of driftwood. VOSS watches a moment

as preparations are made to butcher the animal, then he

turns and hurries back in the direction from which they

came. JANUSZ watches him. He knows where he's going.

95 EXT. LAKESIDE/PATHWAY - DAY 95

VOSS moving fast beside the lake, then onto the track,

running now, retracing their steps.

96 EXT. CAMPSITE, LAKE - DUSK 96

TOMASZ butchers more meat from the reindeer using VALKA's

knife, while SMITH sets up a wooden rotisserie on the

fire assisted by ZORAN. JANUSZ and VALKA are part way

through skinning the beast when they pause on hearing

footsteps. Around the point comes VOSS, followed by the

girl. As they approach, an expectant silence.

Her name is, Irena.

97 EXT. CAMPSITE - LATER - NIGHT 97

They eat in silence, savoring every mouthful. We hear

the sounds of eating - bones sucked to the marrow;

fingers licked; bones crunching.

98 EXT. CAMPSITE, LAKESIDE

JANUSZ has been on the last watch of the night, and as

dawn breaks he approaches his sleeping companions. He

stares down at IRENA, sleeping like a child by the fire.

Slowly the others stir, all moving slowly and quietly,

not wanting to disturb her sleep.

99 EXT. LAKESIDE, CAMPSITE - DAY 99

ZORAN has set himself up as camp barber - trimming hair

and shaving heads using the razor-blade inserted in the

end of a stick, and for shaving cream, a chunk of fat

from the reindeer. JANUSZ has just been shaved and

trimmed, the last but for VALKA. While the others wash

themselves and their clothes, ZORAN calls for VALKA, who

approaches reluctantly and sits on the rock before the

barber.

Why do we do this?

So we don't look like thieves and

robbers.

ZORAN approaches him, blade in hand.

Very still, please.

He tilts VALKA's neck, seemingly the better to shave him.

In fact, he enjoys teasing VALKA and his movements are

slow and ominous, VALKA clearly nervous.

100 EXT. MONTAGE, CAMPSITE

one for the smoking of meat.

VOSS; Cleaning bones of shreds of meat then beginning the

construction of a bone frame for a backpack. He later

gets part of the skin to form the bag attached to the

frame. Still later he collects nearby vines, rolling

them up for future use.

TOMASZ; In between sketching scenes of his friends at

work he skims fat from the pot filled with boiling bones,

and lays out strips of meat given to him by VALKA to dry

in the sun, part of the jerked meat they will carry as a

long term food supply.

VALKA; With the 'Wolf' he separates sinews and tendons

from the beast, to form much needed bindings for their

journey. He also cuts meat for their jerked supply, or

to be smoked.

SMITH; Makes firstly a large bone needle, then later

makes repairs in his clothes.

ZORAN; After cleaning his teeth with a twig, hangs his

suit on a driftwood hanger and is seen brushing it with a

branch from a pine tree. TOMASZ teases him and suggests

he do something useful. Later this leads to him sorting

the boiled bones into various sizes, a sort of accountant

of the 'bone-bank'. 'Customers' come to him looking for

bones or teeth for various uses.

JANUSZ; Works on the reindeer skin. With SMITH's help he

stretches it to dry on a driftwood frame. Later, he cuts

a piece off and gives it to VOSS for the back-pack. He

also works scraping the skin of strands of unwanted meat

and fat.

IRENA; Sleeps and eats. It is only at dusk one day she

seems to come to life and moving to the lakeside washes

her clothes and hair. The men try not to stare, and

whether their thoughts are carnal or not, whether she

reminds them of family or girlfriend, they are all

affected by her transformation from boy/urchin, into a

young woman when she returns washed, and wearing the

dress she has carried rolled-up on her back.

101 EXT. CAMPFIRE, LAKESIDE - NIGHT 101

SMITH and JANUSZ some distance from the campsite

collecting wood. By the fire ZORAN leads the 'Survivors

Band'. He has them drumming on logs, tapping sticks,

harmonizing, amid much laughter. JANUSZ watches IRENA.

Then he turns to SMITH.

She's educated. Speaks good

English. And French.

That right.

You don't like her, do you?

Speak to Valka about her. He

doesn't even think she's Polish.

I did speak to him. And the

others. They agree she comes with

us.

It's decided then?

You disagree.

Apart from food she'll slow us

down. There's no room for

sentimentality. You know that.

And he turns, moving back to the fire with his load of

wood.

102 EXT. PATHWAY, WOODS - DAY 102

Refreshed and revived and laden with their supplies from

the deer, they make their way along a narrow dirt track

by the lake. IRENA is aware that the main opposition to

her joining with them comes from VALKA and SMITH. SMITH

she knows is the more important, and she tries to keep up

with him. Occasionally catching his eye, she tries to

charm him with a coquettish smile beyond her years.

103 EXT. RIVER/LAKE - DAY

A river flowing into the lake presents an obstacle. They

walk along the edge to where the river begins to narrow,

but here it's still frozen, and a quick test with

JANUSZ's staff shows it to be too thin to take their

weight. They look upstream - a distant figure of a man,

a hunter possibly, a shotgun over his shoulder, on their

side of the bank. There's clearly no choice but to swim

for it. They make hasty preparations, removing outer

clothing, except shirts and trousers, tying their boots

about their necks. IRENA watches.

Can you swim?

Yes, Mister.

You wouldn't lie to me?

I'm not lying, Comrade.

That was a slip of the tongue, and SMITH is made uneasy

by it.

And don't call me, 'comrade'.

With a shout the group plunge into the icy water,

swimming one-handed, their packs held above water level

in the other. It's only when they reach the other side

they realize IRENA is still on the opposite bank. The

others urge her to swim across. She hesitates a moment

then runs upstream to where the river is frozen.

They watch in astonishment as in a series of leaps and

bounds she's out on the ice heading for the opposite

bank. Ice cracks beneath her feet and a couple of times

it seems she'll fall in, but with a last great leap over

a section of free-flowing water she makes it to the other

side, hurrying down to join the others a broad smile on

her face. She looks defiantly at SMITH. JANUSZ is

worried about the man having seen them, and urges them to

follow him into the tree-line.

104-105 OMITTED 104-105

A106 EXT. FOREST, A SHORT TIME LATER - DAY A106

106 EXT. LAKESIDE - DAY 106

the lake. IRENA walks beside SMITH whose long strides

force her to jog occasionally to keep up. They swat at

mosquitoes as they walk.

Janusz tells me your family were

Kulaks?

Yes. Just a cow and some pigs.

Were your parents arrested with

you?

They're dead.

She swats at a few mosquitos hovering around her face.

We lived on a farm outside Warsaw.

When the Russians came they said

we were 'kulaks', and exploiting

the peasants. My parents were

afraid and hid me in the barn.

The mosquitos are getting worse and SMITH grabs swatches

of leaves, passing one to IRENA as they walk on, swinging

away at the annoying insects.

(C_C)NTTNTTRT) )

I found them later. Face down in

the mud. They'd been bashed and

strangled with barbed wire.

She looks up at SMITH, her eyes filling with tears.

62.

Later, the Russians caught me, and

sent me to a collective farm.

They were cruel to me. I ran

away. I had no food. Then I saw

you.

They walk in silence a few paces, and she dries

with the corner of her sleeve.

You can't swim can you?

She looks up at him.

What?

You've never been in the water in

your life.

She laughs coquettishly.

But I got across, didn't I?

And, you said you lived on a farm

near Warsaw?

IRENA puzzled.

Yes.

The Soviets didn't get that far.

That was German territory.

She nervously swats the mosquitos.

Your parents weren't murdered were

they? You made it all up.

pinched,

She won't look at him, her face looks thin and

she seems older.

We've all done terrible things to

survive. But don't ever lie to me

again. We've had enough of lies.

108 EXT. ROAD, OUTSIDE A SMALL TOWN,LAKE BAIKAL - LATE 108

A fishing village by the lake. Timber houses straggling

back up into the surrounding hills. From cover, they

consider the obstacle.

We'll have to go 'round it.

Quicker through it.

They'll have dogs. Raise the

alarm. We wouldn't stand a chance

We need food again, Pakhan.

I know we need food, but we're not

going into that town, risk

everything.

SMITH gets up.

We're wasting time.

He strikes off up a slope toward the hills behind the

town.

109 EXT.HILLS BEHIND VILLAGE - DUSK 109

The group make their way uphill and around the town.

A110 EXT.TOWN, LAKESIDE - NIGHT A110

Their P.O.V. down to the few lights of the town and the

lake glimmering in the moonlight. From the direction of

the town - the sound of a dog barking in an agitated

fashion.

AB110 EXT. HILLS BEHIND VILLAGE, SAME TIME - NIGHT AB110

SMITH joins JANUSZ. Off his expression:

What is it? What's wrong?

Where's Valka?

He was behind Zoran.

Didn't you watch Valka?

I'm not his keeper.

Damn him!

He looks back down to the town.

110 EXT. THE GROUNDS OF A HOUSE, VILLAGE - NIGHT 110

A dim light through a side window - the glimpse of a

woman crossing through frame, followed shortly after by

the weathered face of a fisherman. He's heard something.

He crosses to the window, peers out into the darkness.

The moment he turns away the camera moves on around the

side to the rear of the building, past a rabbit in a

cage. VALKA's shoulder comes into frame as he edges his

way toward the back door, passing the sightless skull of

a dried fish swinging from a cord under the eaves. He

reaches for the door-handle, opens it, and slips silently

inside.

A111 EXT. TOWN, LAKESIDE - NIGHT Alll

opposite side of town to that seen earlier.)

111 EXT.TREES, ROADSIDE - NIGHT 111

Theysit by the roadside looking toward the town. They

swatat a cloud of mosquitoes.

He could turn us in for the

bounty.

And risk arrest?

He'd bribe his way out of it.

Would he do that?

He might.

It's an opportunity. We're rid of

him.

We don't need his knife. We can

make one from deer bone.

Come on! Let's go!

A movement behind them, they turn as VALKA steps out from

behind a tree. He stares back at them a crooked grin on

his face.

So.

SMITH moves swiftly, grabs him by his collar and spins

him into the tree.

Hey, easy cowboy!

Could have got us all killed.

You tear my coat

Fool!

He releases him and VALKA staggers back, reaching down to

a bulging sack. He tips out the contents - various

foodstuffs including a freshly killed rabbit and a bottle

of vodka.

'Fool' is it?

It's then they notice blood splashed over his trousers.

What? Did I kill you ask? Yes.

A dog.

Don't believe me? So don't eat.

But you will won't you? Because

you want survival. I know about

survival! All my life.

He holds up the bottles of vodka, one half empty

And it's my birthday!

With a wild look in his eyes, he passes a bottle to

JANUSZ, then flicks the side of his neck with his middle

finger.

In Russia that means we drink!

112 EXT. CAMPFIRE - LATER - NIGHT 112

TOMASZ tends the rabbit roasting on the fire, while the

vodka bottle is passed hand to hand. When not drinking,

the group are swatting at the persistent mosquitoes,

ZORAN now badly bitten. VALKA doesn't seem bothered by

the mosquitoes, perhaps tatoos keep them away, anyway

he's feeling generally pleased with himself and is very

talkative.

You know when they put the

children of the political

prisoners in the orphanage, they

change their names, so later, the

parents can never find them.

Is that what happened to you?

(shakes his head)

I didn't have parents. But that's

what happened to her.

He passes IRENA the bottle. She glares back at him.

Isn't it? You told me that.

She glances at the puzzled faces of the others, finally

looking at SMITH. He holds her gaze. Then she takes a

slug of the vodka.

They called me 'Rykov', but I

remembered our Polish name -

'Zulinski'. I used to say it

every night before I went to

sleep.

The story you told us

I thought that story would be more

sad, and you wouldn't leave me

behind.

Again she looks at SMITH. She made a promise to him.

My parents were Polish communists.

They took us to live in Soviet

Union - to Moscow. They want to

work for the Revolution.

(('.nNTTNTTFT) 1

We lived in the Hotel Luxe with

lots of foreign communists. But

they arrested them. In 1937.

Said they were spies. The police

put me in the orphanage. And my

brother. He died. I was ten

years old.

And you ran away.

She nods. VALKA grinning proudly at her.

She lived in the streets, like me!

He breaks into one of his Urki songs. IRENA translates.

It's about a mother complaining to

her son that he's a thief, just

like his father... it goes on and

says, 'but if you are strong

113 EXT. LAKESIDE - DAY 113

A114 LATER, PLOUGHED FIELD - DAY A114

114 EXT. LAKESIDE, LATER - DAY 114

From a concealed position in the trees they watch as half

a dozen peasants walk by the lake. ZORAN studies them

intently.

No mosquitos.

The others unsure of his meaning.

They have no mosquitos!

115 EXT. VARIOUS LOCATIONS, LAKESIDE - DAY/DUSK 115

The group have by now a walking routine which they rarely

vary, always occupying the same positions in extended

line. JANUSZ as navigator in the lead, SMITH generally

bringing up the rear. IRENA is the exception - varying

her place, now with one, now with another. They don't

talk much to each other as they walk but they do talk

with her. She has the knack of getting anyone to talk.

No doubt a skill learnt in her life on the streets.

116 EXT. FOREST NEAR THE ROAD - DAY 116

alleviate the mosquito problem and the group swat in

miserable silence. Suddenly SMITH throws dirt on the

fire, suffocating it with his jacket. He points to the

road.

117 EXT. ROAD - DAY 117

From their point of view a fisherman in his fifties, a

basket in a sling on his back, walks abreast of them on

the track.

118 EXT. FOREST - DAY 118

As he passes, ZORAN speaks in a whisper to JANUSZ.

There it is! Again!

JANUSZ mystified.

Look at him.

JANUSZ stares again at the man.

No mosquitos!

ZORAN is up and off before anyone can stop him. They

watch in appalled silence as he approaches and speaks to

the man, who regards this stranger appearing from the

forest with some suspicion. ZORAN does a kind of crazy

dance, talking all the while.

Soon the man is laughing, and putting down his bag and

gun he takes something from around his neck and places it

on ZORAN's neck. A few more words, and more laughter,

then with a handshake ZORAN heads back into the forest,

the man continuing on his way. ZORAN rejoins them,

holding up the gift from the old man - strands of

intertwined bark.

Mosquito repellent! And I have

the formula!

119 EXT. ROAD - DAY 119

LATER. They all wear necklaces of the entwined bark and

are mosquito free. ZORAN is the hero of the hour.

But what did you say to him?

That I was an escaped convict who

was being plagued by mosquitos.

As they round a bend and disappear from sight, TOMASZ's

voice drifts back.

TOMASZ (V.O.)

Very funny. But what did you

really say?

A120 LAKE'S END, SIBERIA - DAY A120

JANUSZ scoops up a handful of water where it laps a

beach. It's a symbolic end to their lake trek, and they

turn and walk on, the lake behind them.

120 EXT. A FIELD, SIBERIA - DAY 120

In the far distance a large town dominated by a

collection of smoke stacks, belching out columns of smoke

into the sky, as the group hurry across open ground to

the shelter of the forest.

A121 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY A121

A rustic cart passes by. After it has gone the fugitives

emerge from concealment and resume their journey.

AB121 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE - DAY AB121

VOSS, ZORAN and TOMASZ talk of their pre-Gulag days with

IRENA.

A small stone church in a

little village. Very peaceful. I

grew up in that village.

Then,

I went on business. Once a

year - government clients of

course!

Then,

.layers of very fine pastry, so

when you bite there is a

lightness, a delicacy - it should

almost melt in the mouth.

121 EXT. OPEN COUNTRY - DAY 121

The group move at a brisk pace. IRENA walks beside

SMITH.

(C'(-)NTTNU ED 1

And Tomasz is a pastry chef but

wants to be an artist?

Is that right?

And Zoran was on business in

Moscow, arrested in Red Square, he

said he was just taking a photo of

the Kremlin! He's an accountant.

Well, I'll be damned. Never knew

a funny accountant.

Don't you talk to each other?

In the camps you learn to say as

little as possible.

123 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE, LATER - DAY 123

IRENA now walking with JANUSZ.

Mr. Smith? An American? Working

on the Moscow metro?

He's an engineer. His father was

Finnish. Grew up in America, but

he could speak Russian.

Why did he come to Russia for

God's sake?

The Depression. His son came with

him.

What happened to his son?

They shot him. He was seventeen.

124 EXT. A STREAM - DUSK 124

The group fords a shallow stream when IRENA sees SMITH

limp to a rock where he sits and inspects his blistered,

bleeding feet IRENA kneels before him, dries his

feet with her dress. The others watch silently as she

tears strips from her petticoat and binds up the raw

spots between his toes.

125 EXT. A RIDGE ABOVE THE TRANS-SIBERIAN RAILWAY - DAY 125

The GROUP look down to see the railway track lined with

villagers every few miles, making a crossing especially

hazardous.

The Mongolian border is on the

other side of those tracks.

Two ARMED SOLDIERS can be seen walking along the tracks.

Can't we go around this?

This is the main line. It's going

to be like this everywhere.

We don't have a choice.

We cross at night.

Their attention is caught by the passing of a long

freight train, horn sounding over the bucolic scene.

126 EXT. A RIDGE ABOVE THE RAILWAY-LINE - DAY 126

A visible tension in the group as they wait. VALKA

whittles a piece of deer-bone.

What's that you're making?

A cross for your tombstone.

TOMASZ surprised at his tone.

Why should you care what I'm

making?

The evening is hot and VALKA has his shirt open, the

tattooed portraits of Lenin and Stalin on his chest

appear and disappear in the folds of his shirt. This

amuses ZORAN.

Valka?

What?

Why do you have arseholes tattooed

on your chest?

VALKA stops. Stares back.

Shouldn't they be on your arse so

you sit on them every time you

take a shit?

You think it's funny? They are

great men.

ZORAN laughs.

Watch your eyes, crowbait!

He makes a 'V' with his fingers followed by a short

stabbing motion. ZORAN reels back.

Don't you know what 'Stalin' means

funny man? Man-of-Steel. He

takes from rich and gives to poor.

Sure he does. Then he puts both

of them in a camp for twenty-five

years.

VALKA goes back to his carving.

74.

A127 EXT. RAILWAY TRACKS - NIGHT A127

JANUSZ stands on the tracks lookingdownthelinetoa

cutting where the track disappearsaroundabend.The

sound of an approaching train, a dim light already

reflected on the side of the cutting. He turns and looks

toward the trees where the others are approaching down a

wooded hillside. He hurries toward them, urging them to

take cover in the bracken beside the track. SMITH points

out a glowing red light further down the track from the

approaching train.

AB127 EXT. RAILWAY TRACK - NIGHT AB127

127 EXT. BESIDE THE TRACK - NIGHT 127

as many of the notes and letters as he can.

JANUSZ (V.O.)

Andrejs, for God's sake!

VOSS slowly crosses the tracks, and disappears into the

brush.

128 EXT. BRUSH, TRACKSIDE - NIGHT 128

VOSS, overwhelmed with emotion sits down, examining the

letters and notes in his hand. JANUSZ hurries back for

him.

Come on!

But VOSS doesn't move. JANUSZ sits beside him, and VOSS

passes him a sample of the prisoners' pathetic messages -

some scrawled on the back of photographs. They are

mostly names and addresses, pleas for someone to mail or

inform relatives of what happened to them - some have

even clipped a few bank-notes to pay for postage.

130 EXT. RUSSO-MONGOLIAN BORDER, COUNTRYSIDE - DAWN 130

beyond, a dirt road and distant fields. From a concealed

position in the nearby trees they carefully watch for

signs of a patrol. JANUSZ goes first, passing easily

through the sagging fence. ZORAN calls to him.

What's it like in Mongolia?

JANUSZ holds up a hand - 'Keep your voice down'. ZORAN

crawls through the wire followed by the others.

I love Mongolia.

Love it later. We need to get as

far from this border as possible.

ZORAN faces Russia and as if bowing at the end of a

performance.

Thank you Mother Russia for your

hospitality! I definitely will

not be coming back!

It's only then that we notice that VALKA has not crossed

through. He stands staring at them from the Soviet side.

It's clear he's going no further. JANUSZ crosses back to

him, and they talk through the wire.

76.

They'll catch you if you stay, you

know that.

Prison is o.k. Debt is bad. But

there are many prisons. They

don't find me.

They stand a moment, watching the others moving toward a

line of trees.

No, America?

It's not for me - 'Freedom'.

Wouldn't know what to do with it,

I swear to God.

He places his hand on the wooden hilt of his knife,

sticking out of his waistband.

So we must say goodbye, my Wolf

and me.

JANUSZ glances at the knife.

You don't need him any more.

Good luck, Valka.

Good luck, Pakhan.

And he turns and walks away. JANUSZ walks toward the

distant group and by the time he looks back, VALKA is

gone.

131 EXT. MONGOLIAN STEPPE - DAY 131

A vast plain stretches to distant snow-capped peaks.

Dotted on the hills the Gers - circular tent-like

structures, home to the nomadic Mongolians. In the

distance walk the band of survivors, strung out in a line

abreast. Their voices drift back - snatches of

conversation., and laughter.

133 EXT. ROAD - DAY 133

The travellers striding confidently down the dirt road.

Around a bend, a decorative archway over the road, a town

visible a few miles further on. They stop in their

tracks. On one side of the timber structure a portrait

of Josef Stalin. On the other the local Mongolian

leader, a red star on his military cap. In the centre,

the hammer and sickle over a painting of a brown hand

shaking a white one. Small flags of both nations flap

ominously.

CLOSE on the stunned faces of the fugitives.

It's here too.

This changes everything.

IRENA looks at the grassy plains all about them.

Nowhere to hide.

134-135 OMITTED 134-135

A136 EXT. MONGOLIAN STEPPE, LATER - DAY A136

After China is Tibet. Religious

people. Buddhists.

A136 CONTINUED: A136

But isn't Tibet closed to

foreigners? I remember reading

that.

Their religion would compel them

to shelter us. We could go to

Lhasa, the capital.

We break out of one 'closed

country' and now we plan to break

into another? I like 'open'

countries.

TOMASZ and JANUSZ exchange a few excited words in Polish.

IRENA translates.

They say we could go beyond Tibet.

Over the mountains. To India.

What mountains?

(shakes his head)

The Himalayas.

We could join the British Army.

First fight Nazis then Russians!

Go over the Himalayas? How? On a

magic carpet?

A silence as they contemplate the massive distances

stretching ahead of them.

AB136 EXT. ABANDONED STONE BUILDING, MONGOLIA - DAWN AB136

In the middle of an empty plain a small circular stone

ruin.

79.

136 INT. RUIN - DAWN 136

Sleeping figures. A gentle tip-tapping sound. VOSS

opens his eyes. Staring back at him from the doorway,

half a dozen sheep. He nudges TOMASZ who wakes sleepily,

takes his eye-line. Carefully, slowly, they rise, VOSS

drawing his deer-bone knife. Then they move. The sheep

retreat, bumping into each other, and outside the chase

is on. TOMASZ tackles a ewe and VOSS approaches with a

knife, but JANUSZ is behind him, grabs his arm.

No! Andrejs, no!

VOSS tries to free his arm.

Don't kill it!

Why not? We're hungry!

You want the locals after us too?

They break into Polish, a blazing argument, months of

pent up frustration. VOSS picks up the sheep and carries

it inside the ruin.

137 INT. RUIN, LATER - DAY 137

Milk squirting into their aluminium bowl as VOSS expertly

milks the ewe, IRENA and ZORAN holding it steady.

138 EXT. STEPPE - DAY 138

The sun is blazing as they cross through a sea of grass,

hills rising in the distance like islands.

TOMASZ and ZORAN play a long distance walker's game -

each in turn kicking a rock out ahead, continually

passing it from one to the other.

JANUSZ and SMITH look to the hills surrounding them as

they walk.

You feel it?

Yes.

80.

Feel what?

We're being watched.

IRENA uneasy, squints in the direction of the hills. And

you can feel it. Like a John Ford western there's a

sense of being in Indian territory, of their every move

watched by unseen eyes.

A139 EXT. BUDDHIST TEMPLE - DAY A139

hills.

AB139 EXT. STEPPE - DAY AB139

139 EXT. ABANDONED TEMPLE COMPLEX, STEPPES - DAY 139

Within a walled compound they wander between a series of

recently abandoned Buddhist temples and out-buildings.

By the size of the compound, several hundred monks may

have lived here. Everywhere are signs of violence -

doors hang from hinges, and a large statue of Buddha lies

smashed in a courtyard. JANUSZ points to a line of

bullet impacts, stitched across a wall.

140 INT. TEMPLE - DAY 140

There are bloodstains on the floor, and the wind howling

about the building makes a haunting accompaniment. IRENA

and VOSS are alone inside.

What happened here?

The same as happened in Russia.

Churches closed, priests shot or

taken to camps, religion banned.

They came to my church, in Latvia.

Destroyed everything, declared it

a 'museum'. Later that night,

there was a lone guard. A boy.

81.

I strangled him until his eyes

popped right out of his head.

Valka knew somehow. Knew I'd

killed in cold blood.

He bows his head. IRENA looks up at him, and they stand

together in silence, but for the moaning wind.

141 EXT. MONGOLIAN STEPPE - DAY 141

As they head South, each is lost in their own thoughts

when seemingly out of nowhere a half-dozen Mongolian

horsemen are galloping toward them. The horsemen circle

them, far from friendly looks on their faces. They wear

the traditional costume of Steppe nomads and range in age

from a man in his seventies down to a six-year-old boy.

The OLD MAN pulls up his horse in front of SMITH,

figuring as he's the oldest he'll also be the leader.

The groups stare at each other. The OLD MAN speaks in

Russian, a rough guttural accent.

[THE FOLLOWING DIALOGUE IS IN RUSSIAN.]

Russki?

A glance between SMITH and JANUSZ. Much may hang on his

answer.

No. American.

The OLD MAN maybe doesn't get the 'American' part, but he

gets that they are not Russian. He seems pleased about

that.

Lhasa?

SMITH nods.

Lhasa. Yes. Tibet.

JANUSZ points South.

Pilgrim?

Yes.

No horses?

We are too poor to have horses.

The OLD MAN points at IRENA.

Wife?

SMITH looks at IRENA.

Daughter.

IRENA moves closer to him. SMITH puts a protective arm

about her shoulder. The OLD MAN considers the situation

for a moment longer before abruptly turning, and followed

by his band, galloping off toward the distant hills.

Looks between the group, not exactly of relief, as

there's a feeling it may not be the last they see of the

riders. IRENA looks up at SMITH, smiles at him.

Something about him calling her his daughter has touched

some hidden place. SMITH, a little embarrassed, smiles

back.

142 EXT. RIVER'S EDGE, MONGOLIA - DAY 142

While SMITH fishes in the river, others tend to their

battered feet. VOSS passes around deer fat in his

improvised deer skull container. This they rub over raw

patches, and between their toes where deep cracks have

developed. JANUSZ repairs their footwear, while TOMASZ

sits by the fire sketching IRENA. ZORAN, the camp

barber, trims hairs and beards

143 EXT. CAMPSITE - DAWN 143

TOMASZ is smoking fish over the fire as the group stir.

He gives ZORAN a kick.

What did you do that for? I was

in the middle of this beautiful

dream - just about to eat some

salt, I could already taste it. I

want to go back to that dream.

144 EXT. STEPPES, MONGOLIA, LATER - DAY 144

The figures seen walking away in the distance. Floating

back the voice of TOMASZ giving a recipe of a favorite

Polish dish to ZORAN.

83.

Then add two sprigs of rosemary

and a pinch of nutmeg.

Nutmeg? What about the salt?

We'll get to that. Now, add the

oil and leave it to marinate,

while you prepare the chicken.

That's where the salt comes in...

Good.

Rub it into the skin of the

chicken with a little of the

paprika.

Double the salt.

I can't just double the salt!

It'll be too salty.

I don't care, just do it.

I'm not going to ruin it.

145 EXT. A CHANGING LANDSCAPE, MONGOLIA - DAY 145

before them. Tufty knolls of dry grass are the only

detail that break up the flat immensity.

146 RIDGE-TOP - DAY 146

Up ahead of them on the edge of a ridge a lone Mongolian

horseman watches them approach. He's the young boy from

the group of horseman who originally approached them.

They pause before him. He looks at them a moment then

tosses a goatskin bag at their feet before galloping off

in the direction from which they came. VOSS picks up the

skin bag, gives it a shake. Water.

They continue on to the edge of the ridge and a view of a

vast desert plain is revealed.

They look back to the disappearing horseman before

scrambling down the rocky slope.

A147 EXT. GOBI DESERT - DAY A147

The group crossing into the heart of the Gobi.

147 EXT. GOBI DESERT, LATER - DAY 147

VOSS is the first to see it - a vast glittering lake.

They hurry toward it.

148 LATER, 148

The lake leads them on, but appears no closer.

149 LATER STILL, 149

JANUSZ has taken a reading of the sun, using his stick

method. He points out their direction - it is away from

the beckoning lake.

Janusz!

JANUSZ hesitates, looks at VOSS who holds up their water-

bag.

VOSS (CONT'D.) (CONT'D)

We should go to the lake. Water

is getting low.

What lake? It's a mirage.

He plods on, away from the shimmering vision. There's

little the others can do but trust JANUSZ, and slowly

they follow.

150 EXT. THE GOBI - MIDDAY/DUSK 150

The sun is directly above, the land shimmering with heat

The group have stuck their sticks in the ground and

draped their jackets over them, making a sunshade they

SHELTER under.

151 LATER, 151

The sun has dropped, casting shadows. JANUSZ rises from

the shelter and calls for the others to continue.

152 EXT. THE GOBI - ANOTHER DAY 152

The figures, tiny in the surrounding desert, walk on,

JANUSZ in the lead needing to constantly slow down to

allow the others to catch up.

A153 EXT. THE GOBI - SAME DAY A153

The group hesitate on hearing a distant roaring sound up

ahead. Nothing on the horizon. Then they are hit by a

fierce wind, as toward them rolls a vast cloud of sand.

They drop to the ground instinctively, and huddled

together throw blankets around their shoulders and over

their heads, as they are engulfed in the choking sand.

LATER, they emerge from their own 'dune', and shaking

themselves down they resume their journey southward.

153 EXT. THE GOBI - NIGHT 153

The temperature has dropped to freezing and they huddle

by a fire, picking sand out of their small ration of

food.

I'm too tired to sleep.

Why not keep walking?

I'm for that, if we can wake

Andrejs.

They look to where VOSS sleeps.

He can sleep anywhere, any time.

How does he do it?

Can you plot your way by the

stars?

(Nods.)

Yes, but haven't you noticed?

He points upward to the low clouds obscuring the stars.

What about water?

What about it?

86.

I don't see any. I'm trying to

remember my school geography but I

seem to recall the Gobi Desert

somewhere in Southern Mongolia.

JANUSZ begins scooping out a hole in the pebbly ground.

It's funnel-shaped, narrow at the base. The others watch

as he lines the sides with dried deerskin, placing their

cooking pot in the base.

We may pick up a little morning

dew.

Glad of something practical to do they all set about

digging and lining holes with anything to hand.

154 EXT. THE GOBI - DAWN 154

As they wake, they harvest the precious droplets of water

caught overnight, trickling the contents into their pot,

barely a quarter cupful.

155 EXT. GOBI - DAY 155

No-one has slept much and they walk like zombies, strung

out in a line, no-one speaking, all just dully

concentrating on placing one foot after the other. ZORAN

notices VOSS, walking behind him is actually asleep. He

has swung his backpack onto his chest and with his head

resting on it he is actually sleep-walking. ZORAN tests

his theory by walking away from the group, in a small

circle. VOSS follows, guided by the sound of ZORAN's

footsteps. He wakes him, VOSS looking around with a

start.

You were asleep!

No I wasn't.

You were following the sound of my

footsteps - sleep-walking.

The others have stopped. ZORAN takes the backpack from

VOSS, and places it on the exhausted IRENA.

87.

Just follow the sound of my

footsteps.

She nods, not fully understanding.

Put all else out of your mind, and

sleep. I'll wake you in Calcutta.

She smiles, nods, already half asleep.

156 EXT. GOBI, LATER - DAY 156

ZORAN looks over his shoulder, smiles proudly as he sees

IRENA is sleep-walking, trusting to the steady sound of

his footsteps.

157 EXT. GOBI MID-DAY 157

The group rest under the meagre shade provided by their

coats. SMITH walks away from them, and crests a slight

rise. From here he has a clear view to the horizon. Off

in the distance a dark patch against the light sand.

Through the dancing mid-day light he sees shapes. Trees?

He staggers back to the group.

Janusz?

JANUSZ follows him to the rise. SMITH points to his

discovery. JANUSZ squints against the light.

It's another mirage.

SMITH shakes his head 'no'.

We have no more water. I see

trees. Where there's trees

there's water.

It's East. We must head South.

The others have joined them, staring toward the distant

shape.

88.

I've never doubted you, Janusz.

Not once. But we must give it a

try.

No. We must keep going South!

You'll kill us all!

Damn it, we're already dying.

JANUSZ goes to move on, SMITH grabs his shirt sleeve, a

short pathetic struggle sees them fall to their knees,

VOSS and TOMASZ move to separate them. SMITH is the

first to stand, brushing sand and dirt from his clothes.

He turns to the others.

You have a choice.

He looks at IRENA, then turns and goes back for his staff

and jacket. The others watch as he turns East toward his

discovery.

It's a mirage. Just a mirage.

SMITH keeps walking away - a strange echo of the incident

in Siberia when he walked away from the guards. Perhaps

it is this memory that causes the others to turn

silently, and collecting their few possessions, to follow

him. JANUSZ watches a while, then slowly follows.

158 EXT. THE GOBI - DAY 158

Close on SMITH as he squints against the glare. His

point of view:

OASIS OR MIRAGE? THE DISTANT OUTLINE OF TREES SEEMS TO

DISAPPEAR IN THE SHIMMERING WAVES OF LIQUID HEAT.

159 BRIEF TIME LAPSE: 159

Close on TOMASZ as he stares ahead of him. His point of

CLOSER NOW, BUT STILL IT WEAVES, APPEARING AND

REAPPEARING IN THE HEAT-SHIMMERS.

89.

160 BRIEF TIME LAPSE: 160

Close on ZORAN. His point of view:

CLOSER AGAIN. A BIRD RISES INTO THE SKY FROM THE NOW

MORE SOLID TREES.

Back on ZORAN.

Mirages don't have birds!

Wider, and they're running, running with the last of

their precious energy.

161 EXT. WELL - DAY 161

A clump of straggly tortured trees surround a desert well

- a low square of ancient stones. They sprawl by the

well, SMITH reaching down inside with their bowl to bring

up a scoop of crystal clear water. It's passed around

rapidly.

Just a little. Don't fill

yourselves.

More scoops follow in quick succession, enough to splash

hands and faces.

VOSS calls from a few yards away.

Fire. Coals are still warm.

SMITH and JANUSZ join him, examining the ground about the

fire.

Lots of tracks. Nomads?

Maybe others will come?

Over here! The remains of a meal!

There's still meat on the bones!

He points to the cooked remains of some animal. Using

VOSS's deer-bone knife he scrapes meat from the bones,

others just attacking any bone they find.

90.

Don't eat it all!

He manages to save at least half of the meat, wrapping it

in a cloth, and putting it in VOSS's backpack.

162 EXT. WELL, LATER - DAY 162

They lie stretched out under the shade of the trees

dozing, and every now and then going back to the well to

drink or just to lay their hands in the cool water.

163 EXT. CAMPFIRE - NIGHT 163

IRENA sleeps while the men discuss their situation in

hushed tones.

At least we have water here.

But no food.

Other nomads will come. Water

their flocks.

When? Next week? Next month?

We could wait a few days, at

least.

Without food, we'll only get

weaker. Maybe too weak to travel.

These last days - I don't know

that I could go through that

again.

(looks at the water)

It was a miracle finding this.

Can we count on another?

I say we stay.

91.

They look to SMITH. He looks up to find them watching

him.

What are you looking at me for?

Ask Janusz. He's already made up

his mind for us, haven't you,

Janusz?

JANUSZ says nothing.

164 EXT.WELL - DAWN 164

Steamis rising from their damp clothing when they set

off. ZORAN walking on tip-toe, anxiousnot to spill a

dropfrom the bowl in his outstretchedhand.

165 EXT.GOBI DESERT - DAY 165

166 BRIEF TIME LAPSE: 166

Close on ZORAN as he too turns for a last look at:

THE WELL, NOW UP TO HALF A MILE BEHIND AND LOOKING LESS

REAL IN THE SHIMMERING HEAT.

167 BRIEF TIME LAPSE: 167

Close on VOSS, he shades his eyes to see:

THE WELL IS BELOW THE HORIZON NOW, AND ALL THAT CAN BE

SEEN IS THE ENDLESS FLATNESS, THE SAME EMPTINESS THAT

STRETCHES OUT BEFORE THEM.

168 EXT. GOBI, DESERT - TIMELAPSE - DAY 168

They walk in a desert void. There are no features, no

distant hills, no growth of any kind. It is an

emptiness, the only sound that of their footsteps and

their labored breathing.

92.

All the while their water supply is dwindling - water

from ZORAN's bowl long gone, the goat-skin water-bag no

longer sloshes, but has to be squeezed to get out even a

mouthful.

169 EXT. GOBI - DUSK 169

JANUSZ hands out small portions of the scavenged meat

from the waterhole.

All of them are subject to cramps, the result of the lack

of water, and from time to time they are seen reacting to

a sudden bolt of pain, attempting to stretch against it,

or massage the limb out of its paralysis.

170 LATER, SAME CAMPSITE - NIGHT 170

SMITH and JANUSZ collect more dried camel dung for the

fire. SMITH looks to where the others sit.

We're in trouble.

I know that, but they mustn't.

They know.

You can survive a month or more

without food, but water?

Days?

Maybe two days, maybe less in this

heat.

What about what we're getting from

condensation?

It's the only thing keeping us

alive. But for how long?

Can you get us back to the

waterhole?

94.

172 EXT. GOBI - LATER - DAY 172

As they walk VOSS picks up a pebble, holds it up to show

ZORAN who walks behind him.

When we worked the fields, during

the hot summers, we used to suck

on small stones like these. Don't

know why but it made us feel less

thirsty.

ZORANpicks up a pebble.

We've eaten just about everything

else.

You don't eat it, just suck on it.

At this moment IRENA falls again, her knees buckling and

her face pitching into the sand in almost one movement.

They turn her over again, wiping the sand from her nose

and mouth. SMITH makes a shelter over her with their

sticks and jackets. She lies with her eyes closed, her

breathing coming in harsh gasps. Both legs are now

swollen to the knees. He touches the swelling and the

marks his fingers make remain for some seconds.

Sunstroke?

IRENA wakes.

I'm becoming a nuisance.

She looks down at her legs.

Do they hurt you?

No, not at all. They must be

swelling because I've walked so

far. Don't you think, Mister?

SMITH nods reassuringly then quickly turns away, a look

of deep anguish passing across his face.

95.

173 EXT. GOBI - NIGHT 173

The others keep watch over her as she sleeps. SMITH

passes around a splash of water in the cup. They all

refuse it.

Save it for Irena. We've got our

pebbles.

And he pops one in his mouth, makes out it's delicious

and soothing.

In the now familiar ritual they scoop out holes in the

sand, lining them with their jackets, hopeful of

collecting a little moisture overnight.

174 EXT. GOBI - DAWN 174

They walk on, ZORAN carefully carrying the partly filled

bowl of water. IRENA seems refreshed, but JANUSZ and

SMITH walk beside her, watching her every step.

I can walk alright if I can lean a

little on you.

They each lightly lay a hand on her elbow.

175 EXT. GOBI - LATER - DAY 175

IRENA starts to fall forward, they steady her, and she

walks on for a bit before slumping forward, and falling

to her knees. SMITH too falls with exhaustion. VOSS

hurries back to them.

Can you go on?

I think so. But what about Mr.

Smith?

SMITH struggling for breath is back on his feet, waving

them on. VOSS and JANUSZ each put an arm about her and

half-carrying, half-dragging her, they set off again but

it's no use, she's lost all her strength.

I'm going to carry her.

97.

178 EXT. GOBI DESERT - DAY 178

A lizard, in close up, listens to an approaching sound.

As the volume builds he runs for his life. A beetle too,

has heard it and burrows into the sand as a foot in a

battered moccasin looms large in frame. We follow the

foot a few staggering steps, then a blur, as a body falls

through frame, ending in a close-up of TOMASZ, his breath

coming in short gasps.

179 EXT. WIDER, GOBI DESERT - DAY 179

The five figures, small in frame, TOMASZ the last in

line, down on his knees. He raises a hand, hasn't the

strength to call out. Then one of the figures sees him,

calls to the others.

CLOSE on TOMASZ.

He pulls the leg of his trousers up with difficulty - the

tell-tale swelling of the ankles, just as with IRENA. As

JANUSZ approaches he quickly covers his legs and staggers

to his feet. JANUSZ steadies him, and taking his arm

they continue.

180 EXT. DUNES, GOBI DESERT - DAY 180

As they walk the landscape changes from the endless

scrubby plain to sweeping sand dunes. The nature of the

terrain makes the going slower and they move forward on

the edge of exhaustion. In a curious freak of Nature the

wind whips across the top of the dunes creating an eerie

181 EXT. BASE OF THE GREAT DUNE, GOBI - TWILIGHT 181

revive as he passes around sketches he's made during

their imprisonment and escape.

98.

It's an almost cheerful scene, like a traveller showing

happy snaps taken on holiday.

I like this one. When did you do

that?

He holds up a sketch of KAZIK, showing him examining one

of his battered shoes.

On the train. Poor Kazik, always

the trouble with his feet.

ZORAN holds up a drawing of himself.

Who's this?

You.

ZORAN looks at it again genuinely shocked.

My father maybe, but is that

how I look now?

A chuckle from the others.

SMITH stares at a sketch of IRENA.

You caught her smile.

SMITH passes the sketch to JANUSZ as TOMASZ lays back

down, a smile on his face. He looks up at the stars. He

knows he's dying and has accepted the fact. This in turn

has given strength to his friends, and between them all

is a feeling of love and a kind of peace.

182 EXT. BASE OF THE GREAT DUNE, GOBI - DAWN 182

They've tied his pencil to a length of hide, and hung it

from the top of the cross over his grave. A faint breath

of morning breeze sets it swinging like a pendulum, the

others long gone.

183 EXT. DUNES - DAY 183

As they stagger on JANUSZ has moved well out in front,

when he stumbles and falls. Then he sees it, just out

ahead, and he begins crawling toward it.

99.

JANUSZ'S MIRAGE - DAY:

It's the hedge and gate from his vision. Behind the

hedge the hint of a roof. Through the gate can be seen

the path to the front door.

184 EXT. DUNES - DAY 184

JANUSZ crawling faster now, when ZORAN appears beside

him.

Do you see it?

Come on, Jan.

But do you see it?

No.

He helps him to his feet and they continue on.

185 EXT. DUNES, GOBI DESERT - DAY 185

In the glare of the noon-day sun they shelter under

their coats propped on their walking staffs. No-one

speaks.

186 EXT. DUNES, GOBI DESERT - DAY 186

SMITH and JANUSZ support each other as they stagger on.

SMITH's eyes are on the ground, following the dancing

shadows before him. JANUSZ nudges him, points - above

them two magnificent eagles, the source of the shadows.

Eagles live in mountains.

SMITH looks at the featureless landscape ahead.

They also fly long distances.

187 EXT. LANDSCAPE, MONGOLIA - DAY 187

The dunes are more intermittent here, the ground more

stony and undulating.

101.

VOSS hears it first, and with his remaining strength

moves out of the circle of firelight into the desert. He

pauses, listens again.

A scraping sound. Then he sees them coming out of the

gloom - JANUSZ dragging an unconscious SMITH by his

shoulders. VOSS hurries to them. A look from JANUSZ -

'water'? VOSS shakes his head, 'No'.

190 EXT. CAMPSITE - SAME - DAWN 190

A black snake, thick as your wrist, slides over ZORAN'S

leg. He stares, too close to death to feel fear. He's

not even entirely sure it's real. He watches its

progress as it slithers up the rocky hillside. Then he

gets it, and he's up, running on pure adrenaline,

following after the snake, leaving his sleeping

companions by the fire.

191 EXT. HILLSIDE - BRIEF MONTAGE - DAY 191

ZORAN tracking the snake. He mutters to himself in a

kind of delirium. He is crawling after the snake,

scraping skin from knees and elbows. The snake disappears

down into a rocky defile, followed by ZORAN.

192 EXT. CAMPSITE - DAY 192

SMITH in a death-like sleep. A distance away VOSS and

JANUSZ stand, staring upward at the waving figure some

fifty metres up the hill. A native? Black mud obscures

his face. It's ZORAN. He waves, dances about, then in a

cracked voice, a single word drifts down to them.

Water!

193 EXT. VALLEY FLOOR - DAY 193

ZORAN, JANUSZ, VOSS - lie flat out like lizards, their

faces in damp, black mud. Sucking sounds. They slurp at

small pools of water, split lips, puffed and bleeding.

At first, just to swallow is painful, but it is life.

After each mouthful there is a moment they must wait as

the seepage re-fills the little hollows.

102.

194 EXT. MUD-POOLS - LATER - DAY 194

They've carried SMITH to the water and JANUSZ supports

him in a sitting position while VOSS and ZORAN, in turn,

soak their shirts in the mud, dripping the life-giving

liquid into SMITH'S mouth. He coughs, splutters, as he

sucks at the moisture.

195 EXT. ANOTHER PART OF THE VALLEY - DAY 195

A black snake protruding about a foot out of a hole in

the sandy soil. ZORAN points, and is joined by JANUSZ

and VOSS. JANUSZ holds his hand up for them to go very

still. He speaks in a whisper.

Knife .

VOSS passes him the deer-bone knife. With it, he splits

the end of his staff, to make a fork out of the end.

What if it's poisonous?

You can still eat it. Just cut

off its head.

He passes the knife to VOSS, then creeps toward the

creature, and striking quickly he attempts to trap the

snake in the fork. Too slow. The snake disappears into

its hole.

196 EXT. VALLEY - LATER - DAY 196

Like snake-fishermen, they sit waiting bythe snake-hole

- ZORAN too, has a snake-catching stick. Then they see a

second snake, slithering across the rocks. At a signal

they strike, ZORAN deftly trapping the snake's head in

the cleft stick.

197 EXT.CAMPSITE, VALLEY - DAY 197

Chunksofwhitish snake meat are cooking on a thin flat

stoneovera fire of twigs and grass. The men grab

piecesofthe snake and eat, nodding approval.

It's not bad.

JANUSZ helps SMITH sit up, feeding him a small piece of

meat. SMITH waves him away, sinking back to the ground

too tired to eat.

Kind of like chicken.

Yeah, a long black poisonous

chicken with no legs.

You know Valka talked of eating

each other? In Siberia?

He did? Would you have eaten me?

Probably.

I would never have eaten you - too

stringy and bitter, I'd rather eat

snake.

VOSS nearly chokes on something, reaches into his mouth,

pulls out a tooth.

Scurvy.

199 EXT. CAMPSITE - NIGHT 199

The fire burns low, VOSS and ZORAN sleep. SMITH wakes

from time to time and JANUSZ forces him to eat and drink.

SMITH is deathly pale, his life ebbing away. He speaks

in short, croaky stabs, every breath an effort.

It can kill you, remember?

JANUSZ puzzled.

'Kindness'.

JANUSZ tries to force more water on him but SMITH waives

him away.

104.

How long can you survive on snakes

and mud? You should leave me, but

you can't can you? You're a fool.

I'd leave you.

He lays back down. JANUSZ studies his face, pain and

suffering etched in sharp lines.

Mister?

What?

I mightn't know youur first name,

but I know your son's name.

SMITH stares at him.

Irena told you.

JANUSZ nods.

Can I say his name?

Nothing from SMITH.

'David'.

Saying his name on't bring him

back.

He struggles onto his elbow, staring intently at JANUSZ,

an ironic smile on his lips.

You trying to give me the will to

live? That it? Stop me giving

up?

Are you giving up?

In the camps, some saw death as

'freedom'.

So why didn't you kill yourself?

Survival was a kind of protest.

JANUSZ makes him take a little water.

Now being alive is my punishment.

Punishment for what?

I brought David to Russia didn't

I?

And no-one can forgive you? And

you can't forgive yourself?

Be easier if I had religion, or a

home to go back to, like you.

For us, the old life is gone.

They sit in silence for a while.

Irena told me they tortured your

wife and she informed on you.

Yes.

They did that to my boy.

My wife was released, that much I

know. She lived, but like you she

won't be able to forgive herself.

Only I can do that.

He leans closer to SMITH, speaks just above a whisper,

106.

This last, has impressed SMITH, and despite his death-

wish a flicker of life surges through his bones.

200 EXT. CAMPSITE, MUD-FLAT - DAWN 200

Next morning, and the figures of the four men are seen in

wide-shot sleeping by the embers of their fire. One

figure gets up, picks up his staff, and begins to walk

slowly South, toward the distant mountains. It's SMITH.

The others stir, their attention caught by the sight of

SMITH staggering onward. JANUSZ knows what the effort to

walk is costing him, and he knows this is SMITH's gift to

him. They hurriedly pack up, VOSS cramming the back-pack

with roasted snake-meat, ZORAN collecting a last bowl of

water, which he pours carefully into their goatskin water-

bag.

201 EXT. DESERT - DAY 201

JANUSZ catches up with SMITH, giving him his arm in

support, and together they slowly continue their journey

Southward.

202 EXT. CHANGING TERRAIN - DAY 202

They leave the desert behind as they climb gently rising

ground.

203 RIVER, MONGOLIA - DAY 203

The survivors each seen alone as they experience the life-

giving water: one simply lets water run though his

fingers; another submerges himself entirely; one drinks,

savoring every mouthful as if it were the finest vintage

wine. SMITH fishes. Beside him several of his catch

gleam silver in the light.

205 EXT. HILLSIDE - DUSK/NIGHT 205

107.

206 EXT. CAMPSITE, MOUNTAINS - DAWN 206

They sleep, huddled together amongst the stony rubble.

It is snowing. VOSS is the first to rise. He looks

about him in disbelief, shakes the others awake,

pointing. Just beyond where they've slept a high wall

towers above them. In this extreme Western section it's

in poor shape - not built of stone, but of ancient mud

bricks, tumbled down in many places, but to the East the

outline is distinct as it straggles over ridges to the

horizon - the Great Wall of China.

207 EXT. THE GREAT WALL, CHINA - DAY 207

clothing.

208 EXT. SKY - DAY 208

From high above a series of aerial shots take us over a

massive snow covered mountain range.

209 EXT. SNOWY LANDSCAPE, TIBET - DAY 209

The men climb steadily up snow-covered hills, pausing at

a cairn of stones covered with tiny flags.

Tibetan?

They move on with renewed energy.

210 EXT. COUNTRYSIDE, TIBET - DAY 210

CLOSE on the deeply lined face of a SHEPHERD. He wears

Tibetan costume and squints his eyes as he stares into

the distance.

From his P.O.V., four distant figures walking across the

snowy plain toward him. The sound of dogs barking.

211 EXT. A RIDGE NEAR THE SHEPHERD'S HUT - DUSK 211

Far below in a valley lies the legendary Lhasa - the

stepped palace and surrounding town burnished by the last

of the golden light. A sprinkling of lights come on as

the shadows lengthen.

108.

Above and beyond, like a massive wall, rise the snow-

capped peaks of the Himalayas. This has been theview

stretching out before the four fugitives andtheirtour-

guide, the old shepherd. As if pointing outthechoice

confronting them, he labels each of these spectacular

features.

Lhasa LHA-SA!

Then, indicating 'over' the mountains -

IN-DI-A!

In dumb-show, he mines that the mountains would be very

cold.

212 EXT. SHEPHERD'S HUT - NIGHT 212

Three horses arrive at the door of the lonely hut and its

associated outbuildings. THE SHEPHERD dismounts and with

much bowing opens the door for two other Tibetans who

follow. One is a LPMA, the other a local OFFICIAL. They

stoop as they enter - a glimpse inside to where the four

survivors sit at a table, surrounded by bowls and plates

213 INT. SHEPHERD'S HUT - NIGHT 213

The LAMA and the OFFICIAL sit opposite the group. Tea is

served. The official speaks English with difficulty, and

as in Mongolia, he addresses the elder of the group - MR.

SMITH.

India? Yes. There is the track

to Sikkim, over the mountains.

Many people go there.

And food?

Small villages there. They give

food. Wood for fire. Yes, but

you don't go now.

CLOSE on JANUSZ, intensely following the conversation.

109.

Why can't we go now?

If big snow come - very difficult.

You wait here until Spring. This

family keep you.

He confers with the LAMA.

That's three months.

(indicates the LAMA)

He go to Lhasa. Get permission

for to stay. Only to Spring. Not

possible foreigners stay Tibet.

SMITH bows his head, mutters thanks, all of the group

doing likewise.

214 INT. STABLES, SHEPHERD'S HUT - NIGHT 214

THE SHEPHERD has seen JANUSZ, ZORAN and VOSS to their

quarters. He passes VOSS a battered oil-lamp and retires

with much bowing. They settle on the straw covered

floor, laying out their heavy wool fleeces and blankets

given to them by the shepherd's wife.

Well, we can't cross in Winter.

He said it was 'difficult'.

SMITH comes in, and they make room for him in the cramped

space.

I'm going to sleep 'till Spring.

Like a bear in a cave. What about

you, Mister?

SMITH settles with his back to the wall, draws up his

sheepskin.

I'm going to Lhasa.

The others are stunned by this.

110.

The Lama has a contact - maybe get

me out through China. There's a

U.S. military mission there.

They don't like it. A feeling he's deserting them,

breaking up the team.

'Looking after number one.' Isn't

that what Americans say?

Zoran?

ZORAN eventually looks at him.

We escaped. We made it.

VOSS blows out the lamp. Silvery moonlight from a small

window.

He's right. I just realized it.

Realized what?

Apart from a few mountains, we're

there. We made it.

Not all of us.

No. Not all of us.

Their thoughts drift back to their lost companions.

What will you do, Mister? When

you get home.

'Home'?

Build metros?

Might drift for a while.

Haven't you had enough of that?

CLOSE on JANUSZ, hardly listening, his thoughts

elsewhere. Their late-night conversation drifts over

him.

I will fight. First Germans, then

Russians.

Then re-build your church?

I will die fighting.

This statement has an oddly prophetic sound. JANUSZ look

across at him.

I'm going to get Tomasz's pictures

to a newspaper, or get them

published somehow. Then I'm going

to cook his chicken - but with

extra salt just to annoy him.

Chuckles from the group.

And you, Janusz?

VOSS (TO SMITH)

As long as the Communists are in

Poland, he can't go back.

They'd shoot you wouldn't they,

Janusz?

They settle down to sleep, outside the wind is picking

up.

I'll just keep on going. Until

it's over. Keep on walking.

SMITH looks through the gloom to where JANUSZ sits -

moonlight slashes the side of his face, but he can't

quite see his eyes.

CLOSE on JANUSZ. He's wide awake. No thought of sleep.

112.

216 INT. STABLES - DAWN 216

ZORAN and VOSS agitated at the discovery that JANUSZ has

gone. Much coming and going in and out of the hut,

checking that he isn't somewhere close by. Only SMITH

remains undisturbed as he sits with his back against the

wall, the ghost of a smile on his lips. He expected

nothing less.

217 EXT. HIMALAYAS - DAY 217

Up ahead a figure, JANUSZ, dwarfed by the mountain chain,

struggles on, climbing toward the snow-capped passes.

218 EXT. HIGHER PASS DAY 218

As he climbs he hears a cry, mingling with that of the

wind - a voice echoing about the mountains. He ignores

it for a few paces, before he looks back - far below two

figures waving and calling - VOSS and ZORAN.

219 EXT. MOUNTAIN SLOPE/VALLEY, TIBET/INDIA - DAWN 219

The change from the barren mountains of Tibet, to the

lush green of Sikkim is abrupt and startling - from rocky

upper reaches the slope to the valley becomes rich in

scrubby birch-woods, rhododendrons, and deciduous forest,

until finally it becomes dense rain forest. It is with a

backdrop of this luxuriant green that Indian faces look

up toward the slopes. Here they watch three wild looking

bearded men descending toward them. The additional cost

of this final leg of their journey is plainly visible on

their faces, and in their slow stumbling movements. They

walk like automatons, only their senses fully alive.

Shouts from the locals produce a village ELDER, then a

POLICEMAN. Older children squeal with delight, while

some of the very young cry out in fear, one even bursting

into tears - are these the dreaded Yeti their

grandfathers told them lived up in the mountain peaks?

220 EXT. VALLEY PATH, INDIA - DAY 220

Close on JANUSZ, VOSS, and ZORAN as the beaming POLICEMAN

escorts them past dozens of smiling faces.

113.

This being India, a small crowd of the curious rapidly

swells, until the path is lined two and three deep on

either side, like a welcoming crowd at the end of a

marathon. Small children are held up for a better look,

while hands reach out patting their backs and shoulders -

it's as if they know these men have achieved something

remarkable.

Close on JANUSZ, as amongst the sound of the gathering

crowd other voices join in, cheering voices, hundreds of

them, rising in volume until the cheering changes into

that of a chant, now seemingly swelled by thousands of

voices. Still CLOSE on JANUSZ walking as behind him the

Indian scene dissolves into a series of black and white

images. (Throughout, the image of JANUSZ walking is from

this scene in India).

- VICTORY IN EUROPE. CROWDS CELEBRATE IN TRAFALGAR

SQUARE... SUPER, 'V.E. DAY, 1945'

JANUSZ walking.

JANUSZ walking.

- THE BERLIN WALL BEING BUILT, SOME ATTEMPT ESCAPE. A

MAN IS SHOT AS HE CLIMBS THE WALL... SUPER, 'BERLIN WALL,

JANUSZ walking.

- RUSSIAN TANKS IN PRAGUE, CONFRONT

DEMONSTRATORS...SUPER, 'PRAGUE UPRISING, 1968'

JANUSZ walking.

-LECH WALESA ADDRESSES STRIKING MINERS AT GDANSK

SHIPYARDS, POLAND...SUPER 'SOLIDARITY MOVEMENT, POLAND,

JANUSZ walking.

COMES DOWN, 1989'

JANUSZ walking.

'POLAND FREE, 1989'

JANUSZ walking.

221 EXT. A HOUSE, POLAND - DAY 221

The camera moves toward a gate in a hedge. The click of

the latch as it opens. A downward view of the

flagstones. The front door, the camera pans left. The

loose brick. A hand into frame removes a key from behind

the brick. Into the lock of the door, the door pushed

open.

222 INT. HOUSE, POLAND - DAY 222

A WOMAN sitting by a window. She's in her early

seventies, and she looks up expectantly on hearing the

door closing in the hallway. At the entrance to the room

appears a young man in Polish cavalry uniform - YOUNG

JANUSZ, as he was just before the war. He smiles at his

wife. Cut back to the seat by the window to see his

his WIFE of 1989 - on her face there are lines of

him as he is in 1989 - also in his early seventies.

hand in his.

FADE TO BLACK.

