FADE IN:

Very happy, Disneyesque MUSIC swirls in.

PAN DOWN from a pretty blue sky, to a small quaint town

nestled in the hills. A wooden sign tells us this is South

Park.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE - DAY

Birds fly into the air, TOWNSPEOPLE smile to each other as

they walk by.

It is a scene reminiscent of, if not directly ripped off

from, the opening number of 'Beauty and the Beast'.

A little eight year old boy walks happily down the street. He

is STAN MARSH, a noble looking boy with piercing blue eyes

and a strong chin. As he walks, he sings a happy song.

Stan merrily walks up to a crappy looking house.

INT. BEDROOM - MORNING

We are in a young boy's bedroom, just as his alarm clock goes

off. BRRRRRTTT!!!

From the back, we see the blond haired kid sit up from his

bed. He stretches, and then walks over to his closet.

We still only see the boy from the back as he reaches in his

closet and pulls out an orange coat.

The kid puts his coat on, then turns to camera and pulls the

hood shut, so that we never get a good look at his face.

This boy's name is KENNY, and under his orange coat, we have

no idea what he looks like, except for his European nose and

hazel eyes.

INT. KENNY'S HOUSE - KITCHEN

Kenny walks through his small, dirty house and into the

kitchen, where his MOTHER, FATHER and OLDER BROTHER are

sitting at the humble table.

The doorbell rings. Kenny walks over to the door.

EXT. KENNY'S HOUSE - DAY

Kenny opens the door to find Stan.

Stan shows Kenny a newspaper clipping. It's an ad for the new

Terrance and Phillip movie 'Asses of fire'. Kenny's eyes

light up.

Kenny walks away with Stan. His mother comes out after him.

Kenny and Stan walk down the street.

Dramatic MUSIC STING. Kenny stops, thinks for a minute... And

then walks off with Stan anyway.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE - DAY

Stan and Kenny now both happily march down the street to the

happy beat.

TOM, a plastic surgeon, peeps his head out the door of his

Rhinoplasty office.

EXT. KYLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Kenny and Stan knock at the door.

A handsome eight year old Semite, KYLE, answers the door.

Kenny holds up the newspaper clipping.

Kyle slips on his coat and heads out the door. But just then,

Kyle's little brother, IKE, a two year old adopted Canadian

boy bounces up next to him.

Kyle's MOTHER, a big fat bitch, comes to the door and yells.

Kyle's mother closes the door.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE - DAY

Now the three boys, and little Ike, merrily strut down the

street and sing in unison.

A HOMELESS guy is lying in the alley.

Stan walks by and throws a dollar at him. The homeless guy

suddenly jumps up.

EXT. ANOTHER HOUSE - DAY

This house looks just like all the others.

INT. THAT SAME HOUSE

CLOSE UP on a bag that reads 'CHEESY POOFS'. A hand reaches

into the bag, pulls out a wad of orange crunchies and raises

them --

BOOM UP to reveal the fat face of eight year old ERIC CARTMAN

who chows down on the chips.

Now we see that fat little Eric is sitting on his couch,

eating Cheesy Poofs and watching television.

The doorbell rings. Cartman doesn't move a muscle.

CARTMAN'S MOTHER enters. She is extremely June Cleaveresque

(except that she's a hermaphrodite crack whore). She returns

with Stan, Kyle and Kenny.

Kyle holds up the newspaper ad.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE

Now all four boys are merrily walking down the street and

singing.

The boys skip out of frame.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

The movie theatre is nestled neatly between two other South

Park buildings.

The boys walk up to the geeky, teenage TICKET GUY.

Suddenly, all the happy music that has permeated the film

comes to an ABRUPT HALT.

The boys look confused.

The boys look shocked. They just stand there, in silence.

A few TEENAGERS walk up to get their tickets. The boys step

aside.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - A LITTLE LATER

The old Homeless guy from the intro song walks up to the

Ticket Guy with the boys.

The Ticket guy suspiciously hands them over.

INT. MOVIE THEATER - DAY

The boys are all sitting in the front row. Cartman has a huge

tub of popcorn, all kinds of candy, and a large drink.

ANGLE - MOVIE SCREEN

A TITLE reads 'Terrance and Phillip - Asses of Fire'

On the screen, we come across PHILLIP, a very handsome

Canadian star with a great body.

PAN OVER to TERRANCE, who is also Canadian, and equally

handsome in a more rugged way.

Phillip rips a big fart. Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily.

ANGLE - BOYS

Laughing their asses off.

ANGLE - SCREEN

Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily.

ANGLE - BOYS

ANGLE - SCREEN

Terrance pulls out a white envelope.

TRACK IN on the boys' wide eyed faces as the dialogue from

the film enters their innocent ears.

Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily.

The boys don't laugh, they just smile widely, they seem busy

taking it all in.

The song ends and the boys erupt into applause.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

The boys walk out of the theatre with glazed eyes and wide

smiles.

The boys think a second.

The boys walk away, merrily. The ticket guy is in shock.

EXT. STARK'S POND - DAY

All the children of South Park are gathered at the pond for

ice skating.

The scene is reminiscent of the skating scene from the

Charlie Brown Christmas special.

Delicate snowflakes fall, children laugh and skate, and

joyous music plays.

The boys walk up to the pond.

All the kids gasp! Dramatic MUSIC STING.

Suddenly, all the kids are gathered around the boys. They're

like celebrities.

All the kids stop, wide eyed. As if they've just hear the

voice of God.

The other kids nod.

But Stan is elsewhere, because out on the ice, skating

gracefully, is little eight year old WENDY TESTABURGER.

The heavens part, a CHOIR OF ANGELS sing, as Wendy skates

around and around, performing a series of impossible Triple

Lutzes, Sowcows and what-have-you-not's.

All the animals of the forest -- deer, birds, bunnies -- all

stop to admire her.

Stan's smile grows wider and wider. Kyle turns to see what

he's looking at.

ANGLE - WENDY

Spinning and soaring in slo-mo.  Effortlessly covering every

inch of the pond with her ballet maneuvers.

Stan is slack-jawed.

Wendy finishes her routine with a triumphant Hamill-camel

landing right in front of Stan and spraying ice in his face

and abruptly ending his song.

Stan vomits profusely all over himself.

Just then, another kid skates up, spraying more ice in Stan's

face. His name is GREGORY, and he is a very handsome eight

year old boy, with golden hair and an open-buttoned shirt. He

speaks with a rich English accent.

Stan looks at Gregory.

Gregory skates away. Stan looks stunned. Finally, he tries to

get Wendy's attention.

Wendy skates after Gregory. Stan looks completely rejected.

Meanwhile, the schoolkids are all still gathered around

Cartman.

A small boy steps forward and tentatively touches Cartman's

arm.

EXT. SOUTH PARK - TOWN - MORNING

Establishing shot of the little town of South Park which

consists of four buildings. The sun rises in the background.

It's a brand new day.

EXT. SOUTH PARK ELEMENTARY - DAY

The elementary school is nestled peacefully between two

mountain peaks.

INT. SOUTH PARK ELEMENTARY - DAY

The kids of South Park are all in their seats, singing.

The door opens, and suddenly the kids quiet down.

CLOSE-UP on a hand puppet with a large red hat. It seems to

be speaking.

As the voice continues, we PULL BACK to reveal that the

puppet is on the right hand of MR. GARRISON, a forty-six year

old teacher who is in denial about his homosexuality.

Garrison looks over the class and notices that every single

one of them is wearing a Terrance and Phillip T-shirt,

except, of course, for Wendy.

Stan looks over at Wendy. She just rolls her eyes. Stan

sulks.

The kids all GASP!

Cartman gloats proudly.

Mr. Garrison is in shock.

Cartman takes out a megaphone, hits the switch and puts it

to his mouth. It feeds back horribly.

Garrison is floored.

INT. PRINCIPAL'S OFFICE - DAY

The boys are seated in front of the Principal's desk.

Just then, the Principal walks in. She is PRINCIPAL VICTORIA,

a frizzy haired woman of about forty.

The boys look at each other.

The boys all laugh.

But then the door opens and in walks Stan's mother, Kyle's

mother, Cartman's mother and Kenny's mother.

Stan looks down at the floor.

The mothers look over the sheet of paper. Immediately, their

eyes bulge.

The two moms stare at Ms. Cartman.

The boys get up and walk out. Kyle's mother slams the door

behind them.

A look of shock comes over the principal's face.

Kyle's mother sits herself down at Principal Victoria's desk.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

The other school kids are in line for lunch.

Just then, the Kyle's mother's voice comes blaring through

the P.A.

The kids look down. They're all wearing Terrance and Phillip

shirts.

The kids all cheer and run out the door. Leaving the

cafeteria absolutely empty... Except for Wendy.

Wendy's hello echoes throughout the entire building.

INT. TELEVISION SET

A dapper NEWS ANCHOR sits behind a news desk.

INT. SPELLING BEE - DAY

A QUADRIPLEGIC MIDGET IN A BIKINI stands in front of the

camera with a microphone.

All the kids cheer.

EXT. BIRTHDAY PARTY - DAY

A happy birthday party is going on is some kids backyard. A

clown is entertaining everyone.

The clown looks startled.

PAN OVER to again find the midget reporter. He now has a

graphic of a record chart next to him.

We see a clip from the video, "Unclefucka."

The video has Terrance and Phillip dressed like Mase and

Puffy in that video they did in Vegas.  They wear shiny

bright jumpsuits and lunge at the fish-eye lens of the

camera.

INT. NEWSROOM - DAY

The news anchor shakes his head in disgust.

A screen appears with Kyle's mother, looking very pissed. The

TITLE below her reads 'Outraged Mother'.

A split screen appears, Kyle's mother on one side, and a

goofy looking Canadian slides into the other.

The Minister thinks.

INT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

The boys are in the front row, this time with Wendy, watching

the Terrance and Phillip movie.

The boys laugh merrily. Wendy just looks bored.

Terrance pulls out a match, lights it, then farts.

The flame burns Terrance to a blackened mass.

The boys laugh hysterically.

EXT. THEATER - DAY

The boys walk out happily.

Wendy places her little gloved hand over Stan's mouth.

And just like that, Wendy is gone. Stan looks almost ready to

cry.

Kyle walks up behind Stan.

The boys walk off.

Kenny pulls out a book of matches.

He strikes a match and holds it under his ass.

After a few seconds Kenny farts, and there is a little flame.

Suddenly, the flames catch and Kenny starts burning alive.

Kenny runs around, and finally falls to the ground, still

burning.

Cartman looks shocked.

INT. HOSPITAL - LATER

DOCTORS and NURSES are pushing Kenny into the operating room

ER style.

Everything is quick and chaotic. Shouts fill the hallway.

INT. OPERATING ROOM

It's mid-operation.

Another nurse hands him a sucker tube.  He immediately shoves

into Kenny's skull.  It starts to slurp and burble.

While Doctor Gauche wrestles with Kenny's lungs and torso,

the nurse reaches into Kenny's mouth and pulls both his

windpipe and esophagus out of his mouth, turning them inside

out in the process.

Off to the side, Stan, Cartman and Kyle look on as the doctor

and nurses tangle themselves in knots with Kenny's innards.

Kenny's liver POPS out of his torso and slides across the

floor.

Suddenly, there is a long, BEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEEP.

Doctor Gauche lifts Kenny's heart out of his body.

And runs it to the microwave.  He opens the door.

INT. RECOVERY ROOM - LATER

Fade up from black.  We're close on Kenny's face.  His little

eyes start to open.

Doctor Gauche leans over him Kenny.  Stan and Kyle are

there.

Kenny stirs.

Just then, Kenny's baked potato heart explodes, splattering

gore all over the inside of the recovery room and on the

outside of Dr. Gauche, Stan and Kyle.

INT. HOSPITAL - WAITING ROOM

Kyle's mother is waiting with the rest of the parents.

The nurse walks up to Kenny's parents with a sad expression.

Kenny's mother breaks down.

Everyone gathers around Kyle's mother.

The parents all head out the door-

EXT. HOSPITAL - CONTINUOUS

The doors to the hospital swing open, and the parents march

out into the street, singing in unison as they go.

Cars come screeching to a halt as the parents sing in the

middle of the road. People start honking their horns in

frustration.

Cars are now smashing into each other, and flying off the

road to people's deaths, as the music number has taken over

the busy intersection.

A few more cars careen off and explode into flames as if

ending the song with a borage of fireworks.

INT. OPERATING ROOM -

The boys gather around Kenny's lifeless body.

The boys walk out, leaving Kenny's corpse behind. We can

still hear the boys voices as they exit.

After they leave, PUSH IN to Kenny's dead body, which is

left all alone on the operating table.

The camera continues to zoom in to Kenny's face...

ZOOM IN on Kenny's dead face. We pass into his thoughs...

FLASH!!

EXT. SPACE -

Kenny's body is floating through a great void. A PEACEFUL

SONG plays as he soars upwards to the heavens.

*note - except for Kenny's little construction paper body,

this entire sequence should be done in 3D CGI.

Ahead of him, Kenny can see a great white light. It appears

warm and inviting.

Now Kenny notices large beautiful breasts bobbing up and down

in the heavens. He reaches out to touch them.

Kenny blissfully floats upward toward the bright light and

bobbing breasts. The music crescendos as Kenny gets almost

close enough to the light to touch it.

Just then, a huge, electronic sign pops up. 'Access Denied'.

Suddenly, Kenny goes spiraling downward. The song changes to

a MINISTRY type number as Kenny's surroundings start to

become darker and more twisted.

Kenny's hapless spirit enters a horrifying red tunnel, filled

with flames and heat.

Burning souls SCREAM and CRY all around Kenny, as his body

plunges into what is now obviously the depths of hell.

Kenny passes images of Hitler, John Wayne Gacy, hunger and

disease as he continues through the twisting tunnel.

He then passes images of Jimmy Stewart and Gandhi. All of

whom are opportunely locked in hell for all eternity.

EXT. MOVIE THEATRE - DAY

The same ticket guy from before is at the ticket booth. The

marquee still reads 'Terrance and Phillip' but a huge sticker

has been placed over it that reads 'banned'.

The boys stand underneath the marquee looking baffled.

The boys hang their heads and walks away.

The ticket guy suddenly hears a bunch of commotion. He sees a

mob of angry mothers, led by Kyle's mother.

Barbrady slaps handcuffs on the freaked out teen.

EXT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Establishing.

INT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The boys are sitting on Cartman's couch watching TV.

ANGLE - TELEVISION - THE CONAN O'BRIAN SHOW

Conan comes back from a commercial break. Sitting next to

him, is Ms. Brooke Shields.

A few cheers as Terrance and Phillip walk out on stage. A few

boos as well, and we see that the South Park mothers are in

the audience holding 'Anti-Terrance and Phillip' signs.

Terrance and Phillip walk out and sit next to Brooke Shields.

Phillip rips a fart that launches Terrance backwards and into

the band.  They both laugh wildly.

Terrance and Phillip laugh. Nobody in the audience laughs.

ANGLE - BOYS

They laugh merrily.

RESUME - THE CONAN O'BRIAN SHOW

Terrance extricates himself from the band. Conan is growing

nervous. He looks out into the audience...

Kyle's mother is sitting there, looking angry. Conan makes

eye contact with her, and then nods his head. Kyle's mother

nods back.

They both laugh hard.

Brooke Shields waits a beat, then belts out a fake laugh.

Terrance and Phillip exhange glances.

ANGLE ON THE AUDIENCE

Kyle's mother is among them, listening to all this.

ANGLE ON TERRANCE AND PHILLIP

A battalion of Army guys appear, seize Terrance and Phillip

and arrest everyone in their group.

ANGLE - BOYS

RESUME - THE CONAN O'BRIAN SHOW

Conan O'Brian turns away, ashamed.

Conan grabs his head.

Conan grabs a gun and blows his head off, dousing Brooke

Shields with blood.

Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily. Kyle's mother cradles

Conan's lifeless body.

INT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The boys are sitting on the couch in absolute shock.

EXT. UNITED NATIONS - DAY

Establishing shot.

INT. UNITED NATIONS - GENERAL ASSEMBLY ROOM

Lots of foreigners with their silly foreign outfits sit at

their stupid microphones with their ridiculous translation

headsets -- in the general assembly hall.  The Canadian

Ambassador stands before them.

A MURMUR goes through the crowd.

The United Nations head bangs his gavel.

Now Kyle's mother stands up. She is with a group of mothers

all wearing M.A.C T-shirts.

Everyone looks at Kyle's mother.

Cheers from the Americans.

Kyle's mother pulls Kenny's mother up by the head.

Kenny's mom looks fine.

More cheers from the Americans. The Canadians look worried.

INT. SUPERMARKET - DAY

The boys are in the check out line at Bob's supermarket.

Cartman storms out. The boys follow him.

INT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - DAY

The boys walk into Cartman's house. Cartman slams the door

behind him. The boys all walk toward the living room.

But the boys come to an abrupt halt when they reach the

living room and see that all four mothers are waiting for

them, silently.

Everyone just sits there for a second. The lighting on Kyle's

mother's face looks almost evil.

The mothers all gasp in horror.

Kyle's mother thinks for a second.

INT. HELL - DAY

Kenny walks through the black void of hell. A trippy, single

shaft of light seems to follow him wherever he goes.

No answer... No nothing...

Kenny continues on, flames shoot up randomly from the ground

scaring the shit out of him.

Suddenly, Kenny hears a CLAWING NOISE. It gets louder and

louder. Kenny starts to run faster and faster. Now the

clawing is RIGHT BEHIND HIM! Kenny spins around. He is face

to face with SATAN!

Satan looks down at Kenny and shoots flames out his nose.

Kenny's eyes bulge open.

Kenny shakes. Satan turns to a whispy form and flashes across

the room like a serpent, in a millisecond he is right up in

Kenny's face.

Kenny tries to run away, but Satan again changes form, flies

across the room and cuts Kenny off.

Two black DEMONS grab Kenny by the arms and start to lead him

away.

Just then, SADDAM HUSSEIN show up next to Satan.

Kenny's eyes grow wide.

EXT. REHAB CENTER - DAY

Establishing shot of the small Betty Fordesque building.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids are sitting in chairs in a circle.  There are anti-

drug signs on the walls: "Crack is Whack"; "Get High on

Pottery"; and, "I Go From Zero to Bitch in .9 Seconds."  MR.

MACKEY, the wiry school counselor, leads the group.  There's

a pottery wheel and lots of craft tables behind them.

Wendy looks bored. Stan tries to smile at her, but she

doesn't even acknowledge him.

Meanwhile, Cartman is violently shaking in his seat.

He points at Gregory. The little British bastard from the

lake.

Wendy looks at Gregory. Stan notices this.

Mr. Mackey crosses to a piano. He plays chords while speaking

the following lines.

Mr. Mackey plays the piano and sings:

The kids are extremely disinterested. Mackey walks over to a

chalkboard.

Mackey gets the children in a circle all holding hands.

Everyone starts dancing in a circle.

Everyone falls down laughing.

INT. REHAB CENTER - LOUNGE

Kyle's mom and the other moms watch the kids and Mr. Mackey

rolling around on the floor laughing on a security monitor.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

Just then, Kyle's mother walks in with a scowling look,

interupting the kids and Mr. Mackey who are still laughing

merrily. The other mothers are behind her.

Mr. Mackey stands up, looking scared.

The mothers walk away.

Kyle hangs his head.

EXT. SUPREME COURT - DAY

A news reporter stands in front of the Supreme Court. All

around him are protestors, with signs that say CANADA NO! and

CAN'TADA! Still others hold signs with Kenny on them.

Kenny's mother steps into frame. She is wearing a shirt with

Kenny's picture on it. Written on the T-shirt is 'Have you

seen my son? No, you haven't. He's dead.'

The reporter thinks for a second, and then turns back to the

camera.

INT. SUPREME COURT - DAY

Terrance and Phillip are on the stand.

Terrance rips a fart.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids are all in the main room, sitting on a couch,

huddled around a television.

They laugh merrily.

INT. SUPREME COURT - DAY

Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids all shout agreement.

BACK TO COURTHOUSE

Terrance and Phillip laugh merrily.

Kyle's mother now stands up from the prosecutor's table.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The children all listen, wide-eyed.

INT. SUPREME COURT - DAY

BOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOOP.

Suddenly, the screen goes blank. A sign that says 'PLEASE

STAND BY' comes on.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids all watch, wide-eyed.

INT. CANADIAN PRESS CONFERENCE - DAY

The Canadian Prime Minister stands directly in front of

camera, looking right at us.

The Canadian Prime Minister steps out of the way, revealing

the Smothers Brothers tied up in chairs behind him.

Another Canadian leans in and whispers in the Prime

Minister's ear.

He raises his middle finger, but it's all blurred and

digitized.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

Mackey puts the tape in and hits play.

The TITLES come up 'Terrance and Phillip Asses of Fire'

Except that 'Asses' has been blurred out, and replaced with

'bunz'.

The movie begins. Phillip walks in. But it isn't Phillip's

voice, somebody has dubbed him over.

Phillip farts on Terrance.

The boys look confused.

The pseudo-Terrance and Phillip laugh. Terrance throws a

match on Phillip and Phillip burns to death.

A TITLE comes up - THE END.

And the credits roll.

The lights in the theater come up.

Mackey slaps his hand over his mouth and looks around, scared.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SEPARATE ROOM

Mr. Mackey is in a private office with the members of M.A.C.

Dramatic MUSIC STING. Mackey looks afraid.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids are again glued to the TV watching the trial of

Terrance and Phillip.

INT. SUPREME COURT - DAY

Back in the courthouse, the jury walks in and sits down.

The crowd goes wild. The mothers of M.A.C. stand and cheer.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids sit in shock.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

The judge bangs her gavel.

HUGE MUSIC STING.

Phillip passes out.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids can't believe what they're seeing. Everyone is

silent. Finally, Kyle perks up.

Kyle thinks for a moment.

The boys sit there and blink.

The handsome English kid, Gregory chimes in.

Wendy looks at Gregory deeply. Gregory smiles at her.

Wendy walks away.

INT. REHAB CENTER - SOUTH PARK'S BETTY FORD CENTER

The kids are all sitting in rows, wearing very crude 'Free

Terrance and Phillip' buttons.

The kids all AD LIB relief.

The kids cheer.

Just then, Mackey notices the little buttons on everybody's

shirts.

Dramatic MUSIC sting.

INT. HELL - DAY

Kenny is chained up in a torture chamber in Hell.  Demons and

ghouls surround him.

Kenny starts to cry.

Saddam Hussein comes out from behind Satan holding a martini.

Saddam walks over to Kenny and releases his chains.

Kenny runs out and away.

Saddam walks over and joins Satan on the couch.

Saddam pulls Satan around and plants a big wet kiss on him.

INT. PTA MEETING - DAY

A large crowd of parents has gathered for a PTA meeting.

Kenny's mother is at a table selling dead Kenny t-shirts. She

has a shitload of money all around her. Another MOTHER walks

up, hands Kenny's mom money, and gets a shirt.

Meanwhile, Kyle's mother is on the stand.

DOCTOR PANGLOSS, a lab technician in white takes the podium.

One person claps. Pangloss hits a button and a slide

projector starts showing pictures of the device.

The parents are fascinated.

The parents AD LIB 'Ooohs' and 'Ahhhhs'

Cartman steps out wearing a hospital gown.

Cartman looks offstage to his mother.

Cartman smiles.

BZZZZZAAAAT!!!!

Cartman falls to the floor in pain. All the parents ooh and

ahh and applaud.

BAZAAATTT!!

BAZAAATTT!!

The crowd goes wild.

EXT. SCHOOL - DAY

School is now Naziesque. A military drum echoes in the

distance.

INT. CLASSROOM - SOUTH PARK ELEMENTARY - DAY

Stan and Kyle are sitting in their desks, waiting for school

to begin.

Wendy walks by on her way to her desk.

Wendy walks on by.

Cartman walks in and gingerly sits down.

Stan and Kyle laugh.

BZZAAT!  The v-chip shocks Cartman.

BZZZAAAT!!

Cartman is thrown to the floor in a shivering heap.

Stan and Kyle look at each other.  Kyle smiles.

BZAAAT!

BZZZAAAT!!

BZZAAAT!!  The cycle continues as Stan and Kyle laugh merrily

watching Cartman flopping around on the floor.

Garrison stands before his class.

The kids all just sit there.

Clyde raises his hand.

Just then, the door bursts open and in walks a couple of Nazi

looking American soldiers.

They walk over to the children and start pulling off their

'Free Terrance and Phillip' pins.

Another solider rips off Kyle's pin and replaces it with a

yellow star.

Just as quickly, the soldiers make their way out the door.

INT. CAFETERIA - DAY

The boys are in line. Nazi-ish soldiers usher them through.

The soldier glares at him. The boys walk into the kitchen,

where they are greeted by their big, happy, black school

CHEF!

Suddenly, Chef realizes who he's talking to.

Now Chef starts to panic.

Just then, the P.A. blares out an announcement.

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

All the elementary students are gathered in front of a large

television monitor.

Mr. Garrison and his class walk in and look confused.

The boys walk up to Chef.

They all go to their seats.

The television goes from that Emergency broadcast signal to a

scene of a news anchor sitting at his desk.

INT. OVAL OFFICE - DAY

The President is sitting in a chair by the fireplace.

ANGLE - KIDS

They all stare in silence. Mr. Garrison takes a deep breath.

INT. WHITE HOUSE - DAY

INT. GYMNASIUM - DAY

Everyone watches the television in stunned silence.

Kyle's mom appears on the TV dressed in military garb.

Kyle can't believe it.

On the television, Kyle's mother walks up to the podium. She

is dressed to the hilt. She hugs the President and the first

lady and then takes a deep breath.

A huge eruption of cheers from the crowd in front of Kyle's

mother. She is obviously floored by it. She can't help but

smile. She actually holds her head up higher, and then raises

her arms up in two peace signs, as the cheers get louder.

The president forces a smile and actually applauds with the

rest of the crowd.

Back in the gymnasium, Kyle looks thoroughly embarrassed.

INT. HELL - DAY

Kenny is sadly walking around hell. He walks up to another

one of hell's prisoners.

Kenny moves along. He hears some voices coming from a door.

Kenny opens the door and peeps inside-

INT. SATAN'S BEDROOM - KENNY'S POV

Saddam and Satan are lying in bed.

Just then, Satan hears a reporter on CNN.

Kenny's eyes bulge, he wants to see more, but Satan clicks

off the television and sits up in bed.

Satan walks over to large pedestal which holds an ancient

tome.  Satan turns the pages as he talks.

He points to an ancient-looking picture of the death of

Ceasar.

He points to a picture of a comet passing by Earth.

A picture of Jerry Springer holding a bunch of money.

Satan points to an ancient drawing on the wall. It looks like

Terrance and Phillip being stabbed in the head.

DRAMATIC music.

Saddam thinks for a second.

Satan sits with his arms crossed and a frown.

Satan reaches over and turns off the light.  Everything goes

pitch black. The light goes off of Kenny's face as well.

A beat.

Then, a small moan from Satan.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE - DAY

Stan and Kyle are walking down South Park Avenue. Stan is

reading out of a huge book.

Stan and Kyle walk into the middle of town, where a HUGE

bonfire of Terrance and Phillip videos, posters, and Canadian

items like syrup and hockey sticks are burning away.

The soldiers throw Stan's book on top of the pile, and it

starts to burn.

Stan and Kyle walk up to where Cartman is standing.

Clyde, one of the kids from school, throws his Terrance and

Phillip dolls into the burning mass.

Kyle stops him on his way back.

More kids line up to burn their Terrance and Phillip stuff.

Several random mothers from M.A.C. are standing in front of

the bonfire with anti-Canadian signs and T-shirts. The boys'

parents aren't around, but another MAC mother is leading the

charge.

A townsperson throws Alanis Morisette albums into the fire.

Another townsperson runs up and throws in a bag of Cheesy

Poofs.

Cartman falls to his knees and cries as the Cheesy Poofs burn

away.

Kyle looks to where a group of big, mean FIFTH GRADERS have

encircled Ike.

Kyle's eyes grow wide. He dashes over.

Kyle picks his brother up and tries to protect him.

The boys watch in horror as the fifth graders run over and

throw more Canadian items into the fire.

DRAMATIC MUSIC begins.

The boys proudly head down the street.

(*note- cartman gets shocked again on 'bitch')

INT. KYLE'S HOUSE - KYLE'S DAD'S OFFICE

Kyle is at the keyboard of his dad's computer. Stan and

Cartman are waiting in the background.

Kyle types in the word and hits return.

Kyle clicks the mouse. They wait for the screen to load.

Finally, it does.

Stan and Cartman rush over.

Cartman looks at the screen.

Ike bounces in, happily.

Ike bounces out.

Kyle furiously hits a bunch of keys.

Kyle furiously hits a bunch more keys.

Just then the screen pops up. Access Granted.

The boys all think...

Triumphant MUSIC cue.

INT. KYLE'S ATTIC

The door to the attic pops open.  Kyle shoves Ike up into the

attic.

The door closes and it is dark.

Ike blinks. He looks out a small window, onto the street

below.

A few armed soldiers walk by.

Ike pulls out a little plastic harmonica and sadly starts to

play.

INT. PENTAGON - NIGHT

Tons of MILITARY PERSONNEL are running to and fro. Giant

computer screens show Canada's latest attacks.

Everyone laughs merrily.

Suddenly, a PENTAGON GUY runs up to the President, holding

some papers.

The President grabs the papers and dashes over to Kyle's

mother, who is standing there looking smug, with her arms

behind her back and her chest out. She has a few military

badges on her.

The President starts to run off.

The president runs off.

EXT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Establishing.

INT. CARTMAN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Cartman's mother is tucking him into bed.

Cartman's mother reaches over and switches off the radio.

With that, Cartman's mother gets up-

She switches off the light, and leaves.

Cartman lies there, lit only by soft, blue moonlight and

thinks.

He hears a SCRAPING noise, and looks a little scared, but

then tries to close his eyes to sleep.

Again the SCRAPING. Cartman pops open hs eyes to see -

KENNY! He is transparent and floating above Cartman's bed.

Cartman is horrified. Too much so to even scream.

Kenny puts his hands to his mouth to try and speak, but he

makes no sound.

Finally, Cartman lets out a piercing cry.

Cartman's mother comes running in, just as the image of Kenny

disappears.

Cartman's mother looks around and sees nothing. Finally, she

just cradles Cartman's fat head in her arms.

INT. HELL - DAY (MOVED)

Kenny is again snooping around. He quietly creaks Satan's

door open and walks in.

Satan is in his room, looking at a map of Earth.

Kenny looks scared.

Suddenly, Saddam walks in carrying some bags.

Satan rolls his eyes and sighs. His attempt to be evil to

Kenny is squashed again.

Saddam looks at Kenny.

A beat. Satan folds his arms and looks at the floor, pissed.

Saddam lets out a sigh.

As this conversation happens, Kenny's eyes dart back and

forth as if watching a tennis match.

Saddam sighs.

A beat.

Saddam and Kenny walk out. Leaving Satan all alone with sad

music playing.

Satan walks to his veranda.

Satan walks over to a bright blue globe and spins it slowly.

PULL BACK, big crane shot rising above Satan.

EXT. SMALL ABANDONED BUILDING - NIGHT

A dim light is all that is visible from inside the small

building.

INT. LA RESISTANCE - NIGHT

Stan and Kyle are painting a sign on the wall 'La

Resistance'.

Cartman comes running in, he looks scared.

Kyle and Stan laugh again.

KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK!

The boys all look scared.

The boys walk over to the door, and open the sliding panel in

front of their eyes.

Kyle opens the door. The golden haired young boy from rehab

stands there looking handsome and angelic.

Another kid walks up next to Gregory, it's Wendy. Stan's eyes

grow wide.

Gregory takes Wendy's hand and pushes his way in. Stan fumes.

INT. LA RESISTANCE - LATER

Now the room is filled with a bunch of scared looking

RESISTANCE FOLLOWERS. All of whom are under the age of

twelve.

The room is lit only by candlelight. And the large 'VIVA LA

RESISTANCE' banner hands on the wall.

Stan and Kyle look nervous.

The kids all sit down.

Stan looks out over the faces. Gregory checks his watch.

The kids don't respond. Stan shoots a nervous look at Wendy,

who is sitting next to Gregory.

Again no response. Gregory rolls his eyes.

Gregory stands up.

Gregory takes Stan's place at the front of the group.

Gregory pulls a big map out of nowhere and rolls it out. Stan

and Kyle can't believe it.

Stan shoots Kyle a dirty look.

Wendy smiles at Gregory.

Everyone looks at Stan.

INT. SOUTH PARK - AMERICAN ARMY HEADQUARTERS

A huge hall is filled with hundreds of soldiers in different

battalions.

We see our regulars: Mr. Garrison with a uniformed Mr. Hat,

Mr. Mackey, Jimbo and Ned, Bo, Pip, Stan's Grandfather,

Jesus, Officer Barbrady....

PAN OVER to Mr. Garrison.

Chef sits down in a seat behind Garrison near the back.

GENERAL PLYMKIN, a gruff old army type with bug eyes, steps

up to a podium and addresses the troops.

The crowd settles down.

Another general leans over to Plymkin and whispers in his

ear.

A large, holographic 3-D map of South Park springs up in

front of him.  He walks around it pointing out things with a

laser-pointer.

He points to a spot on the 3-D map.

Chef is in Battalion 5 and dutifully raises his hand.

Then he looks around and notices to his surprise that

everybody else in his section is also African American.

A bunch of white guys raise their hands.

He points to a spot on the 3-D map.

Chef raises his hand.

Chef scowls.

Suddenly, the 3-D hologram starts to flicker and fizzle.

General Plymkin messes with the controls.

General Plymkin has pulled the plug. He stands there with

the cord in his hands.

BILL GATES walks in, escorted by two MILITARY GUARDS.

Plymkin pulls out a gun and shoots him in the head. Gates

falls to the floor, dead.

INT. LA RESISTANCE - NIGHT

In the dead of night, the kids are all in a circle discussing

the plan.

Suddenly, a bump in the ground starts to move forward, leaving

a trail behind it. (like bugs bunny before he pops out)

The bump comes to a stop at the children's feet and out pops

THE MOLE.  He is a very bitter little nine year old French

kid with a THICK French accent.

Stan and Kyle look at each other confused.

Everyone stares at The Mole.

Stan gets pissed.

Now, Gregory breaks into song. His voice is absolutely

gorgeous and deep. He puts his hand on Stan's shoulder.

Stan and Kyle look at each other. They can't believe how good

this guy's voice is. Wendy appears enthralled.

The music builds. Gregory gets up on a soapbox.

Kyle and the boys look a little worried, as other kids join

in the song.

As THE SONG CONTINUES we-

EXT. USO SHOW - NIGHT

The MAC Mothers are on a stage, preparing two electric

chairs.

All the mothers join in as they decorate the chairs with

American flags. Kenny's mother is counting money she has made

from selling t-shirts.

The song still CONTINUES as we

EXT. HELL - CONTINUOUS

Satan stands on his veranda.

INT. MILITARY BARRACKS - CONTINUOUS

The soldiers, including Garrison, Mackey, Ned and Jimbo are

in their bunks.

PAN DOWN to Chef's bunk where he is lying naked with a hot

chick. As usual, Chef sings a song that has absolutely no

relevance to what's going on.

Meanwhile, the soldiers continue their song.

INT. MILITARY PRISON - CONTINUOUS

Terrance and Phillip are chained to the wall in a dark, dirty

prison cell. Two armed American soldiers are torturing

Terrance and Phillip with hot irons, as Terrance and Phillip

sing-

EXT. LA RESISTANCE - CONTINUOUS

The kids are all gathered together, finishing their song.

One kid grabs a large flag and starts swirling it around.

EXT. SOUTH PARK AVENUE

All the South Park men are in the rank and file marching down

the street.

They pass Kyle's house.

INT. KYLE'S HOUSE - ATTIC

Ike watches the soldiers march from his little attic window.

Ike blinks.  Does he understand them? he picks up a small

book and starts to write in it.

INT. HELL - DAY

Satan paces back and forth in hell.

Satan crosses to one of his small demons.

The demon dashes off.

Satan sighs and bows his head.

MUSIC BEGINS.

Kenny looks confused.

Kenny keeps watching as Saddam throws on a Shakey's hat and

does a quick softshoe. Satan rolls his eyes.

Saddam finishes the song and Satanhangs his head.

Saddam leaves. Satan looks about to cry, but then notices

Kenny still standing there.

Satan lowers his head. Slowly he starts to cry. Kenny walks

over and pats him on the back.

EXT. MILITARY COMPOUND

Tents and makeshift buildings are lined up against the

mountains.  Jeeps and Tanks buzz to and fro.

There's a huge stage which is set up with thousands of seats.

There's a giant banner reading "USO SHOW TONIGHT!!!!!"

Loads of soldiers file into their seats.

The military men go wild.

The crowd goes crazy again.

EXT. INTERNMENT CAMP - BEHIND THE USO SHOW - DUSK

Right out of Nazi Germany.  Barbed wire, guards, the whole

bit.

ANGLE ON BOYS

They are on their backs, shimmying along the ground

underneath the blanket of razor-wire that is set up around

the camp.

The Mole uses the bolt-cutters to cut the wire as he goes,

clearing a path for Stan, Kyle and Cartman.

A wire catches on Cartman's arm and SNAPS against his face.

BZZAAAAT!!!

Stan shoves his hand over Cartman's mouth, leaving Cartman to

cuss bloody murder into Stan's glove.

BZAAT!

Finally they clear the fence and lie down in view of the

camp.

Kyle looks at the horrible concentration camp.

Kyle looks at The Mole, oddly.

The Mole whips out some night vision goggles.

ANGLE ON INTERMENT CAMP THROUGH NIGHT VISION GOGGLES

The Mole inspects the camp.  He sees a guard on a guard

tower.  Then he pans over to a bunch of Canadians standing

in a line in rags.

The Mole quickly clicks the magnification to high so we see

the saddened faces of the Canadians.

The boys think.

EXT. USO SHOW - DAY

Helicopters zoom over the makeshift stage like the USO show

in Apocalypse Now.

Groups of soldiers cheer as a helicopter approaches the

landing platform and touches down.  The US army men cheer.

The mothers take the stage, and Kyle's mother speaks into the

microphone. Behind her is a huge American flag. She is

wearing an army helmet. This is right out of 'Patton'.

A big cheer goes through the crowd. Kyle's mother feels the

power, and lifts her head high. She starts to pace back and

forth on the stage as she speaks, becoming more and more

Pattonlike.

Out of the helicopter emerge a battalion of the best and

brightest stars that the American show biz industry has to

offer.

She gestures grandly to the helicopter where Winona Ryder

emerges and runs to center stage and waves to the audience.

She looks like a strung out coke addict; because she is.

One guy claps.

Winona falls down. But gets back up immediately.

She cues the band which has been assembled from the same

helicopter.  Jazz music starts up.

It's 'New York, New York'. The troops look confused.

'New York, New York' continues to play.

INT. UNDERGROUND TUNNEL - BELOW THE USO SHOW

The mole is digging frantically while the boys follow on all

fours.  Cartman holds a flashlight.

The boys stare.

A beat.

The mole starts digging up towards the ground.

EXT. INSIDE THE PRISON CAMP

Mole pops his head out of the ground. Immediately, a search

light passes over the hole.

Mole ducks, just avoiding the light.

Slowly, the boys' heads appear from the hole.

The whole camp is in front of them.  There is a HUGE

barbedwire fence on one side (the side they just dug from)  A

dozen armed guards with huge Dobermans patrol the grounds with

Howitzers.  It doesn't look good.

One by one, The Mole, Stan, Kyle, and Cartman pop out of the

ground, and run for a nearby building.  Once at the building,

they all duck to avoid the search lights.

The others look at each other.

A beat.

A beat... Then mole takes a long drag off his cigarette and

slowly blows the smoke.

The Mole turns to Cartman.

Cartman storms off.

The Mole starts to dig.

And with that, The Mole quickly starts to tunnel his way

underground.

EXT. STAGE - NIGHT

Back on stage at the USO show.  Winona Ryder is just

finishing up her song.

The band finishes with a flourish. Winona takes a bow.

One person in the entire audience claps.

The same guy claps again.

Everybody else in the audience just stares at him.

The place goes wild as Big Gay Al walks out on stage.  Winona

fumes in the wings.

The back curtain goes up to reveal a tropical jungle set

complete with a waterfall, hippos, monkeys and hundreds of

colorfully dressed dancers.

Between the cheering, we hear a throng of "Happy!". Now the

place is rocking!! Everybody loves Big Gay Al!

Winona can't believe it.

The crowd cheers.

The crowd cheers louder.

The entire place goes incredibly quiet.

You can hear a pin drop.

Silence...

Deafening silence...

Slow music swells in. Big Gay Al saunters around the stage

and starts to sing.

Suddenly, Big Gay Al is wearing a big feathery outfit and all

his dancers dash to his side.

The crowd is absolutely confused.

EXT. INTERNMENT CAMP - ANOTHER AREA

Cartman is by himself, slowly moving from building to

building. He is scared out of his mind.

He approaches the electrical box.  Just as he's about to open

it, two armed AMERICAN SOLDIERS round the corner.  Cartman

gets scared and hides in the shadows.  The soldiers continue

walking...

...And pass a terrified Cartman.

EXT. INTERNMENT CAMP - STAN AND KYLE'S AREA

The boys are waiting, bored, for The Mole to return.

Just then, we hear The Mole return from his hole. He is

carrying the ticket guy from the movie theater.

The Mole takes the Ticket Guy back through the hole.

The boys sit back down and wait again.

EXT. USO SHOW/STAGE - CONTINUOUS

Meanwhile, Big Gay Al's song continues-

The chorus guys all pick Big Gay Al up and dance around with

him on stage.

The song ends and everyone erupts into applause.

INT. HELL - DAY

Satan is looking into a large, oracle-like ball. Saddam isn't

around, but a few demons and Kenny are hanging out.

The demons make excited noises.

Two of the demons head for Satan's room.

Satan walks to the bedroom.

EXT. INTERNMENT CAMP - ELECTRICAL BOX AREA

Cartman approaches the electrical box nervously -- looking

all around for soldiers.

He opens the door to the electrical box and sees a large

switch labeled ON and OFF.  He reaches to turn off the switch

when he feels a tap on his shoulder.

Cartman jumps.

Then turns and karate-chops in one spastic flurry to see -

KENNY!!

Kenny's ghost is again floating in front of Cartman. Kenny

again struggles to speak.

Cartman runs off, leaving the power completely on.

INT. KYLE'S HOUSE - ATTIC - NIGHT

Ike is still just sitting quietly in the dark attic.

Suddenly, the attic door bursts open!

Other soldiers file into the attic and grab Ike by the arms.

The American Soldier picks up Ike.

The soldiers drag Ike down the stairs.

Sweeping, moving MUSIC STING.

EXT.  INTERNMENT CAMP - STAN AND KYLE'S AREA

Kyle is patiently awaiting Mole's return.

Kyle spins around when he hears someone coming.

But it's only Cartman. He's panting heavily.

Cartman stops breathing heavily and thinks.

Just then, all the alarms in the place go off.

From the distance, the boys hear gunshots.

Suddenly, the Mole pops out of the hole. The boys see that

The Mole has been shot up badly.

As SHOUTS and RUNNING FOOTSTEPS draw closer, The Mole lays

down and begins to die in Kyle's arms.

Gentle MUSIC begins.

The Music fades away, as the Mole coughs up some blood.

The Mole coughs up more blood.

The Mole dies.

The boys look up to see three large MARINES pointing guns at

them.

Stan makes a run for it. He dashes off at full speed.

One of the soldiers fires at him. PWANG! PWANG! But Stan

disappears into the night.

EXT. USO SHOW - NIGHT

Kyle's mother, and the other mothers of MAC, take the stage

again.

Terrance and Phillip are wheeled out onto the stage.

From the other side, Kyle's mom appears with a couple of

official looking military people.  The crowd cheers.

The crowd cheers.

Terrance and Phillip are then greeted by the EXECUTIONER,

donned in a black hood.

The scary giant Executioner grabs Terrance and Phillip and

puts them into electric chairs.

The crowd cheers.

The Executioner steps up to the throw switch.

EXT. SOMEWHERE IN SOUTH PARK - NIGHT

LONG SHOT of a desolate, dark area.

It has started to rain. Stan trudges through the wilderness

looking tired and scared.

A few wolf HOWLS sound in the distance. Stan walks on.

No answer.

No answer. Stan stumbles a bit.

Stan falls to the ground. His face plops in the rainy mud and

his head smacks against a rock.

Stan is out cold.

Just then, a strange sound emerges. It is like a pulsating

WOBBLE. Stan slowly awakes, picks up his head and shines his

flashlight around.

The sound gets louder. Stan shines his flashlight on

something that is huge and throbbing.

EXT. STAGE - NIGHT

Kyle's mother approaches Terrance and Phillip.

Kyle's mom nods to the Executioner.

General Plymkin walks out next to Kyle's mother.

The crowd cheers. Kyle's mother smiles.

Another cheer. The mothers are all very pleased. That is,

until they see Kyle and Cartman brought out to the stage at

gunpoint.

Now Ike is brought out at gunpoint.

Kyle's mother rushes over to General Plymkin.

Cartman walks over to where Terrance and Phillip are strapped

into their chairs.

She walks away.

EXT. IN THE MIDDLE OF NOWHERE - NIGHT

Stan is still lying in mud, but now he lies before a HUGE,

pulsating, organic looking thing that belongs in the X-Files.

It's the size of a small building.

The massive thing starts to glow. Stan looks weak and afraid.

Stan trembles.

Stan's eyes grow wide. MUSIC starts to swell up.

The clitoris fades, and just as it does, all the kids of La

Resistance come running into frame. Wendy and Gregory are

with them as well.

Wendy bends down to pick up Stan.

Wendy pulls Stan up off the ground and slings his arm around

her.

EXT. USO SHOW - NIGHT

A drummer plays as the execution begins.

The executioner throws the switch and Terrance and Phillip

start to fry. Kyle, Cartman and Ike, in their chairs, look

horrified.

Near death, Terrance cranks out a weak fart. Terrance and

Phillip both laugh weakly but merrily.

As Terrance and Phillip fry, they scream out:

Suddenly, FWWOOOMMM!!! A Bomb lands in the middle of the

army. BLAM!! It explodes with incredible force, sending dead

bodies in all directions.

Canadian military planes zoom overhead! It's a full scale

attack!!

From a HIGH ANGLE we see the soldiers all scatter like bugs

in every direction.

FWWOOMM!!! BLAMM!! Another explosion!  Everybody just starts

screaming and shooting in every direction.  Total and

complete mayhem.

One explosion knocks out the electricity, and Terrance and

Phillip stop drying.

The electricity runs along a wire, across the stage, and

right up Cartman's leg. Cartman starts frying horribly.

Finally, Cartman is blown clear of the electricity. Kyle

picks him up and starts to run along with Ike.

INT. HELL - SATAN'S BEDROOM

Satan opens the door to find Saddam sleeping happily in his

cozy bed. He is only wearing little black g-string panties.

Now we see that Kenny is standing at the foot of the bed. He

holds a gasoline can, and has just finished pouring the last

drops underneath the bed.

Kenny walks over next to Satan. Satan pulls out a book of

matches.

Satan tries to light the match. It won't light.

Finally, the match lights. Satan holds it up-

-and throws it onto the bed.

Saddam burns to a crisp and Satan and Kenny run out.

EXT. USO SHOW - DAY

People run screaming in all directions as a full scale attack

has broken out. Gunfire, explosions and dead bodies fly all

around.

Ned whips around and mows down a line of Canadians. But one

Canadian makes it through, and sticks his bayonet through

Ned's neck.

Blood gushes from Ned's neck as he collapses.

FWWOOM!! BLAMMM!!! The boys runs as fast as they can amidst

the explosions.

Now when the V-chip shocks Cartman, we can actually see the

blue current swirl around his body.

General Plymkin has followed his men into the trench, where

explosions and gunfire fly all around. He pulls out a walkie

talkie as his men die all around him.

They all fall in.  A phalanx of black men, Chef included in

them, walk out in front of a bunch of white guys.

Just then, over a ridge in front of them, a line of Canadian

tanks appears. The tanks are lined up 3 deep.  Behind them is

a line of missile launchers.  General Plymkin's jaw drops.

The black guys all look at each other nervously.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD

The boys run through the chaos.  Body parts and scrapnel fly

here and there.

A bloody soldier suddenly stumbles and falls in front of the

boys holding a massive head wound.

Garrison lies on the ground, coughing up blood.

Garrison takes Mr. Hat off his hand and gives it to Cartman.

Just then, Garrison goes limp.

Cartman looks at the Mr. Hat in his hand and scowls. The boys

run from the battle.

They pass the American troops, where all the black guys are

standing in a human shield around the white guys.

The Canadian tanks take aim.

The Canadian tanks fire.

All the black guys suddenly jump out of the way, leaving the

whites completely exposed.

The tank fire hits the army, blowing all the white soldiers

to smithereens, including Ned and Jimbo.

EXT. SOUTH PARK - DAY

From an EXTREME WIDE SHOT, we see all the forces on both

sides exchange firepower. The Canadian National anthem can be

heard in the distance.

We see Mr. Mackey looking like a natural born killer.  He

shoots like a maniac into the Canadians.  He wounds one and

then marches over to the wriggling body with a knife.

And he drives the knife into the Canadian's chest.

But then, suddenly, another Canadian Soldier appears out of

nowhere, and blows a hole through Mackey's chest.

Mackey falls to the ground, dead. Just then Big Gay Al runs

through the frame, we FOLLOW him as he skips his way around

gunfire.

Another bullet zings by his head.

THUMP! A bullet hits Big Gay Al square in the head. More

bullets follow, tearing him to shreds.

WIDE ANGLE ON - ENTIRE BATTLE

This shot parodies one of the big shots from 'Saving Private

Ryan'. Just complete overkill. Explosions, helicopters,

gunfire and death.

Kyle's mother, and the other mothers as well, stand on a

ridge overlooking the horrific massacre.

Kyle's mother holds out her M-16. She is now completely

insane.

The other mothers look very confused.

The other mothers walk away.

Kyle's mother turns back to the battle. More killing and

explosions.

She charges the field.

EXT. BATTLEFIELD - CONTINUOUS

Terrance and Phillip are dodging gunfire and super loud

explosions.

They laugh merrily.

But just then, Kyle's mother comes charging in with her gun!!

Phillip spins around just in time to see Kyle's mother

plunge her bayonet into Terrance's abdomen.

SLOW MOTION SHOT -

Blood from Terrance's abdomen slowly spills from his stomach.

Everything gets SILENT as we follow the blood down, down,

down...

Until it hits the ground with a huge, echoing BWOOOMMMM!!!

CLOSE UP on Kyle's mother's eyes.

CLOSE UP on the spot of blood on the ground...

BACK TO REAL TIME

Suddenly, the ground starts to open up! FWOOM!! Great flames

and ash take over the sky.

Satan and his minions explode from below. Everyone stops

fighting for a moment, to watch this amazing spectacle.

Demons and flames emerge from the ground. All the soldiers on

both sides can't believe what they're seeing.

Now out of the giant abyss comes Kenny. He dusts himself off

and looks around.

EXT. TRENCH - NIGHT

As more bombs and gunshots go off. Kyle, Cartman and Ike

huddle close to each other in a trench.

Kyle thinks.

Another explosion rocks the trench. Dirt flies all over the

boys' heads.

Cartman tosses Mr. Hat out of the trench. We hear GUNSHOTS

and then VERY FAINTLY we hear Garrison's voice.

Suddenly, Stan jumps down into the trench.

More explosions go off. Dead bodies fly all around the boys.

Suddenly, Kenny appears before the boys.

EXT. SOMEWHERE IN SOUTH PARK - NIGHT

More battle. People are dying left and right.

The Doctor from the Hospital scene runs in with an M-16. A

Canadian steps in front of him, the doctor shoots, and blows

the Canadian's head clean off.

Suddenly, the ticket guy's chest rips open. He falls dead,

and standing behind him is a Canadian with a double barreled

shotgun.

Tom the Rhinoplasty surgeon leaps in and stabs the Canadian

through the head with his bayonet.

A Canadian rushes in and machine guns Tom full of holes.

Just as the fighting escalates, Satan and his minions rush

in.

The soldiers all look scared and puzzled.

Satan gets in Kyle's mother's face.

Kyle's mother backs down, ashamed.

One by one, the soldiers start to kneel.

Satan throws his arms up in the air and laughs a horrible,

deep laugh that fills the world.

But just then, the ground shakes again. Satan looks over to

the huge abyss he had crawled out of and notices another

figure.

He is burnt horribly, but it is Saddam. He holds a martini

glass in his hand.

Saddam, burnt to a crisp, walks over to Satan and grabs his

ass.

Satan puts his head down.

Kyle walks up with Cartman, Stan and Kenny.

Kenny pulls out the proofs of purchases. TRIUMPHANT MUSIC

plays.

Saddam smacks Satan in the face. Now Satan looks mad, but he

sits down like a good little bitch.

ZAP!!  A huge CHARGE shoots from Cartman, knocking one of

hell's demons on his ass.

ZAP!!! Another huge CHARGE emits from the v-chip inside

Cartman and sends the other Swedish Soldier reeling.

A smile comes across Cartman's face.

BZZZZZZZZT!   A huge charge busts the chains that hold

Cartman's wrists.

He jumps down.

TRIUMPHANT MUSIC plays as Cartman uses his newly found power.

But before Satan can do anything, Cartman holds up his hands

and lets loose.

BZZZZZZZZZAAT!!!!  A charge hits Satan square between the

eyes and knocks him down.

He gets to his knees and stands up again.

Cartman holds up his hands.

BZZZAAAAT!!

The charge hits Saddam in the chest.  He drops again.

Saddam looks around and is suddenly scared.  He appeals to

Cartman.

Cartman closes his eyes and hums like he's summoning up the

worst words in the world.

Then, it comes out.  Like a volcano.

BZZZZZZZZZZZZZZZATTTTTTTTT!!!!!

A huge purple jolt emerges from each of Cartman's hands and

joins into one powerful current that hits Saddam.  Saddam is

thrown back against the wall.

Satan looks at Cartman, then at Saddam, and thinks...

Satan stands there.

Saddam grabs Satan by the arm.

Satan starts getting really mad.  Steam starts coming from

his nostrils.

Steam starts coming out of Satan's nostrils.

Satan picks up Saddam, and throws him over a huge, flaming

cliff, back into the depths of hell.

Everyone cheers.

They all laugh merrily.

Satan stands over the cliff, looking down at where Saddam

fell.

The boys look at each other, confused.

He starts to cry.  Chef hands him a hanky.

Kenny hands them to Satan.

TRACK IN slowly on Kenny. MUSIC BUILDS. Finally, Kenny

speaks.

Everyone GASPS!!

Triumphant music plays, as if Kenny is giving a grand,

important speech.

Satan turns to the open abyss.

Sadly, Satan walks back down the trench into hell. But

something catches his eye.

Satan bends down and picks up Mr. Hat. He looks at it, and

then places it gently on his hand.

Satan smiles. And walks down to hell with Mr. Hat.

The boys walks over to Kenny.

A bright red light flashes and Satan and his minions are

dragged back down into hell. Kenny is taken along with them.

At the same time, Garrison, Jimbo, Mackey and all the others

who died, suddenly and magically appear. They look at

themselves, wondering what just happened.

Everyone just stands around in a daze. Canadians and

Americans alike look at each other and wonder what to do.

The boys' parents walk up.

They all laugh merrily at their naughtiness.

Wendy walks up to Stan.

Stan smiles. MUSIC swells.

Wendy grabs Stan and plants a big kiss on him. Stan vomits

into Wendy's mouth.

Gregory stands off to one side, scowling.

Now everyone joins hands and starts singing-

Kenny's mom and dad come up.

Kyle points to the sky.  Everyone looks up just in time to

see a brilliant shooting star across the daytime sky.

We follow the shooting star and then slowly ZOOM in on it.

As we get closer, we realize it is actually Kenny, shooting

towards the heavens.

As TRIUMPHANT MUSIC plays, Kenny's little body floats up and

up through the clouds. (NOTE:  This will also be done in 3-D

CGI)

Rays of light from above bathe his body and he flies up into

the warmth of the baby blueness.

Angels encircle him and give him a pair of wings.  They smile

gently.  He feels calm.  He feels good.

Amidst a group of angels, Kenny flies upwards and finally...

into Heaven.

