FADE IN:

EXT. SOUTH DAKOTAN FARM - DAY

A lone farmhouse sits isolated against a prairie backdrop,

silhouetted by a marbled dawn sky.

INT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

MARIAN PETERSON, a gray-haired woman in her late sixties,

meticulously packs a suitcase.  She picks up a small, framed

PHOTO from a chest-of-drawers and holds it up to her.

INSERT - PHOTO

It's a picture of a man about Marian's age.  He has a sweet

natured smile on his face.  Marian looks at it longingly,

then packs it carefully in her suitcase between some sweaters

and closes it up.

EXT. FARMHOUSE - DAY

A paint-chipped truck rounds the corner on a dirt road

leading into the farm.

Marian, waiting on the porch, ready to go, rises and waves.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER -

Marian's son, STEVE, dressed in jeans and flannel shirt,

loads his mother's single piece of luggage into the bed of

the truck, climbs back into the cab, where his mother is

sitting, and drives off.

EXT. THE SKY - DAY

A JETLINER descending in the hot, cerulean sky.

EXT. KENNEDY INTERNATIONAL - AFTERNOON

Marian, looking a little forlorn and out of sorts, stands out

by the taxi area with her suitcase on a tote, looking around

for a cab, unsure what to do.

CURBSIDE - A FEW MINUTES LATER

MISCHA, a somewhat dissolute-looking Russian cabbie in his

thirties, roughhouses Marian's single piece of luggage into

the dirty, cluttered trunk of his cab.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Marian is sitting in the back of the cab as Mischa opens the

driver's side door and slams it shut, rattling Marian's

nerves.

Marian fumbles with a piece of paper she's rooted out of her

purse.

Mischa, annoyed, slams the shift lever into Drive and lurches

off.

Marian leans forward into the rectangular opening of the

Plexiglas partition.

In the REAR-VIEW MIRROR we glimpse Mischa giving Marian a sly

look.

EXT. LOCATION - DAY

The TAXI passes on a turnpike, streaming with vehicles,

headed toward Manhattan.  DRIVE-BY TRANSITION.

INT. TAXI - DAY

Hurtling along.  Marian cranes her head through the partition

and attempts to strike up a conversation with the surly

cabbie.

Mischa chuckles as Marian sits back in the cab.

ANGLE ON MARIAN -

looking out the window, her face clouded with consternation.

EXT. BRIDGE - DAY

Cars pouring into Manhattan over one of the many bridges

spanning the East River.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET AND 2ND AVENUE - DAY

The cab brakes to a halt, bringing Marian INTO THE FRAME, her

face strickened with fear.

Marian climbs out of the cab as Mischa, in the background,

opens the trunk to retrieve her bag.  Marian, taking in the

foreign surroundings, seems confused about something.

Mischa closes the trunk and approaches Marian with her one

piece of luggage on a tote.

MARIAN'S AND MISCHA'S P.O.V. -

At the far end of the block, we SEE a movable, blue NYPD

roadblock.

BACK -

The two of them, Marian looking puzzled.

He chuckles to himself, but Marian doesn't get the joke.

Marian unsnaps her wallet and grudgingly hands the

disreputable cabbie two twenties and a five.

Mischa takes the money and starts away.  Halfway back to his

cab, he turns around and calls out to Marian, who stands

frozen on the dilapidated street.

Mischa hugs an imaginary purse close to his side.  Marian

apes his advice in all seriousness.

Mischa climbs back into his cab and peels off.

NEW ANGLE -

HIGH DOWN WIDE of Marian standing forlornly at the end of the

street, a Dayton's shopping bag in one hand, her luggage

strapped to the tote in the other.

TITLE IS SUPERIMPOSED:

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - DAY - A FEW MINUTES LATER

Marian pulling her luggage apprehensively down the street.

She passes THE SQUATTERS, a motley group of homeless

teenagers, pierced, tattooed, wild hairdos and even wilder

attire.

Marian, shocked by their circumstances, rolls her luggage

past them, smiling faintly.

Marian continues on.  She's distracted by ...

A WOMAN in her thirties, who looks like she hasn't slept in a

week, bent over the railing of a second-story fire escape

balcony, in the throes of a veritable rage.

Marian stares up at her, even more disconcerted than ever.

The enraged woman continues her tirade at an unseen old

boyfriend below.

Marian looks away and, intrepid Midwesterner that she is,

pushes on.

A MAN, dressed strangely, stands surreally in the middle of

the street, blowing huge clouds of cigarette smoke.

A GAY COUPLE parade past, laughing hysterically.

NEW ANGLE - AT THE END OF THE STREET -

A PACK of unmufflered, chrome-coruscating HARLEYS round the

corner in a ear-shattering approach.

MARIAN -

stops dead in her tracks and stares in heartstopping terror.

ACROSS THE STREET -

The BIKERS, wearing their club's colors embroidered on blue

jeans, and leather, vests, back their motorcycles in a

uniform row against the curb, kill their engines, park them

at an angle on their kickstands, and dismount.

They high-five a biker known as the DISCIPLE PROSPECT, a

small, mean-looking man with a red bandana tied taut over his

head, and then disappear into the windowless clubhouse,

passing through a large, forbidding, black door with the

skeleton of Death riding a motorcycle painted on it.

The Disciple Prospect tosses the butt of a cigarette into a

rusted steel drum and flames erupt.

MARIAN -

in horror, cannot pry her eyes away from them.

NEW ANGLE -

An upstairs window on a six-story, red-brick co-op building.

PAULA, Marian's daughter, a pretty woman with short dark

hair, is leaning out the window, waving.

EXT. THE FRONT SECURITY DOOR - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Paula emerges to greet her mother.

Marian glances one last time across the street and exchanges

oblique looks with the Disciple Prospect, now parked on a

stool next to the burning drum.  He seems to home in on her.

INT. CO-OP - TWILIGHT - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

A nice, one-bedroom co-op, tastefully furnished.  Paula is

unpacking Marian's things.  Marian stands in the middle of

the apartment, feeling relaxed, if still a bit shaken, for

the first time since she arrived.

Marian walks over to the window and peers out.

Marian returns her gaze to the view out the window.

EXT. STREET - TWILIGHT - MARIAN'S P.O.V. -

Out the window.  Two BIKERS stand with their arms

crisscrossed against their leather-vested chests, framing the

burning drum on the sidewalk, guarding the phalanx of

Harleys.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT - LATER

Paula and Marian are sitting at the dining table.  They're

studying one of those plastic laminated maps of New York that

you can buy everywhere.  Paula is attempting to acquaint her

mother with Manhattan's complex public transportation system.

Marian removes her glasses and fixes her gaze on her

daughter.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

CRANE UP to Marian lying wide awake on a convertible sofa

next to the street window.  We (Marian!) hear VOICES,

MOTORCYCLES REVVING, POLICE SIRENS, followed by what sounds

like GUNFIRE, tires SCREECHING, a cacophony of sounds typical

of summer nights in the East Village.

We go UP and OVER Marian toward the window as imaginary

voices flood in and become intelligible.

RAUCOUS LAUGHTER erupts.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT - MONTAGE

A Kenneth Anger Scorpio Rising-like MONTAGE:

A black-booted foot kick-starts a Harley.

A gleaming chrome exhaust pipe vibrates and spits smoke.

A black-gloved hand revs a handle-bar accelerator.

A helmet is pulled down over a Hun-like face.

Flames roar in the steel drum as though a signpost in Hell.

One of the DISCIPLES, bare-chested, long-haired, sweating,

swings a baseball bat and calls out to Marian in a singsong

voice:

Another half-naked BIKER, arms tattooed up and down, has

Marian's suitcase open and is scattering her belongings out

into the street.  He finds the framed photo of her deceased

husband and tosses it to the pavement.  He raises his head

slowly with a sneer and looks up at ...

MARIAN -

standing in the window in her nightgown, a hand covering her

mouth, looking down in utter terror on the fire-lit tableaux

of her nightmare.

THE BIKER ON THE STREET -

starts stomping on the photo with the heel of his boot,

shattering the glass.  Then he removes the photo from the

frame and slowly drops it into the roaring conflagration in

the oil drum.

The other dawdling Disciples guffaw loudly.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Marian wakes with a start, consciousness giving way to a sigh

of relief.

EXT. CO-OP BUILDING - DAY

ESTABLISHING SHOT of Paula's red-brick co-op, splashed with

sunlight and framed by a bright blue sky.

INT. CO-OP - DAY

It's quiet in the co-op.  Marian is dusting the bookshelves

and humming to herself.

Behind a shelf of books she discovers a PHOTO ENVELOPE with

some snapshots in them.  Curious, she has a look-see.

SNAPSHOTS -

flipping through Marian's hands.  They chronicle Paula and a

BOYFRIEND on a recent vacation to a Caribbean island.  Marian

is amused by them ... until she comes to one showing Paula

with her bathing suit top off, arms raised giddily in the

air.

MARIAN -

gasps, then blushes and quickly replaces the pictures.

INT. CO-OP - DAY - LATER

Marian is at the window, peering through the furling

curtains.

EXT. STREET - DAY - MARIAN'S P.O.V. -

Looking down on the Satan's Disciples' clubhouse.  Two BIKERS

and their GIRLFRIENDS swagger out of the clubhouse, don their

helmets, mount their bikes, kick-start them to life and roar

off down the street.

MARIAN -

draws away from the window.  She picks up her "Streetwise

Manhattan" laminated map, puts her glasses on, looks at it,

debating whether to tackle the streets of New York or not.

A FEW MINUTES LATER -

Marian, determined now to get out of the co-op, pulls her

purse over her shoulder and grips it like the cabbie

instructed.  Then she moves to the front door, opens it, and

steps warily out into the hallway.  She freezes when she

HEARS THUNDERING FOOTSTEPS.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Marian cowers against the half-open door as a young MAN,

wearing faded jeans, black cowboy boots, and leather vest

over a naked torso, comes charging down the stairs pulled by

a frothing, pent-up BULLDOG on a leash.

As he passes, Marian retreats quickly back into her unit,

closes the door, and locks the locks from inside.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Paula is hanging up her coat and setting down her briefcase,

an incredulous expression on her face, looking at ...

Marian, sitting in a chair by the window, leafing through a

magazine.

Marian shrugs.

EXT. NEW YORK - DUSK

Manhattan skyscrapers framed against a twilit sky.

INT. RESTAURANT/BAR - NIGHT

Marian and Paula are sitting at the bar.  They each have a

glass of white wine in front of them.  Paula is looking at

some PHOTOS of the farm that Marian has brought along.

Paula continues to browse through the snaps.

Marian removes a pill from a small vial she's rummaged out of

her purse and slips it discreetly into her mouth.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - NIGHT

Marian and Paula, arm-in-arm, walk down the block back to her

building.

A MOTORCYCLE rounds the corner, slows to a crawl, and one of

the Satan's Disciples stares over at the two of them as if

casing them out.  Paula won't look at him, but Marian can't

avert her gaze.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Marian lying awake in bed, the ENGINES of the Disciples'

Harleys deafening ...

EXT. SATAN'S DISCIPLES' CLUBHOUSE - NIGHT

DOLLY ACROSS a line of idling Harleys, the bikers, one at a

time in succession, switching their single-beam headlights

on.

PAN ACROSS the FACES of the Disciples, mounted on their

cycles, dark helmets, faded blue jeans jackets embroidered

with elaborate stitching of their club's insignia, cigarettes

dangling from their hirsute mouths, baleful-looking

countenances, revving their engines loudly, tauntingly.

NEW ANGLE -

From across the street, Marian, appearing like an apparition

in her nightgown, surreally walks toward them, a beseeching

look on her face.

GO TO SLOW MOTION as the BIKERS, some ten in number, slowly

approach the frail-looking Marian.  Gently, they pick her up

off the ground and raise her aloft.  Then, like some moving

human bier, they carry her through the forbidding black door

into their clubhouse.

INT. CLUBHOUSE - NIGHT

We follow Marian down a dark corridor leading into the bowels

of the clubhouse.

INT. DREAM CORRIDOR - NIGHT

At the end of another corridor, a MAN stands, silhouetted

against an explosion of blue light.  As we near the ghostly

figure, we REALIZE it's Marian's deceased husband.

There's a GUN SHOT.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Marian wakes with a start, clutching a hand to her breast.

INT. KITCHEN - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Marian shakes a Valium out of a vial, puts it into her mouth,

swallows it with a drink of orange juice.

INT. PAULA'S CO-OP - THE NEXT DAY

Marian, not wanting to be a disappointment to her daughter,

damn her fears, gathers her purse up and starts out the door.

INT. HALLWAY - DAY

Marian is again prevented from an easy exit when a young, hip

looking COUPLE come bounding down the stairs.  As she stands

at her open door to let them pass, they completely ignore her

as if she didn't exist.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - DAY - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Seen from Marian's perspective across the street, the front

of the Satan's Disciples headquarters is quiet.  There are

only a couple Harleys parked out front.

Marian, relieved that there are no bikers out, hurries off in

the direction of First Avenue, determined to see the sights

of the city.

EXT. NEW YORK CITY - DAY - MONTAGE

A giddy, almost dreamlike, MONTAGE of Marian touring New

York.  She's SUPERIMPOSED over famous landmarks, as if she

were standing stationery and the city were in a diorama

rotating all around her.  The Empire State Building; Circle

Cruise Line; eating a hot dog from a street vendor; shopping

at Macy's.  Marian beams as she is magically whisked along,

walking on air.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - DAY

Marian comes INTO THE FRAME around the corner.  She has a

spring in her step and a broad smile emblazoning her face.

But her sanguine mood is quickly shattered when she HEARS

shouting.  She freezes in her tracks.

ACROSS THE STREET - THE SATAN'S DISCIPLES HEADQUARTERS -

The Disciple Prospect and another Biker are roughing up a

teenage KID, wrestling him into submission.

MARIAN -

at the security door of Paula's building.  She rummages

anxiously through her purse, but she can't find her keys!

Marian glances across the street, her face tensed with fear.

ACROSS THE STREET -

The Bikers continue to roughhouse the Kid.  The Disciple

Prospect brandishes a plastic bag under his nose.

MARIAN -

turns away from the escalating violence across the street and

punches one of the buttons on the intercom.  A WOMAN'S VOICE

crackles over it.

There's no answer.

Marian returns her frightened gaze to the altercation across

the street.

ACROSS THE STREET - MARIAN'S P.O.V.

Two more DISCIPLES emerge from the clubhouse.  One of them

squirts lighter fluid on the fire burning in the steel drum

and the flames explode.  Then KID is dragged over toward the

fire.  The Disciple Prospect drags him dangerously close to

the flames.

MARIAN -

petrified, as if she'd stepped into a re-enactment of a

passage out of Revelations, walks briskly down to the middle

of the block toward a pay phone.

DISCIPLES CLUBHOUSE -

The Disciples kick the drug-dealing Teenager a couple more

times, then set him free, laughing as he flees down the block

in mortal fear.

PAY PHONE -

Marian drops the appropriate coins in the coin slot and dials

a number from memory.

Marian hangs up the phone and turns, quails in terror.

NEW ANGLE -

The Disciple Prospect is towering over her, staring down at

her with a scowl on his face.

WIDE SHOT -

Marian walks quickly ACROSS THE FRAME.  As she EXITS RIGHT,

the Disciple Prospect ENTERS LEFT and trails after her.

EXT. PAULA'S BUILDING - DAY - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

Marian is at the front entrance, uncertain what to do.  She

quailss when the Disciple Prospect approaches.  Without a

word, he reaches his arm over her and presses a buzzer to one

of the units.

The DOOR BUZZES almost at once, and the Disciple Prospect

pushes it in and holds it open until Marian is safely inside.

He looks at her a little annoyed.  Marian is absolutely

nonplussed.

INT. CO-OP HALLWAY - LATER THAT DAY

Paula comes running up the stairs.  She stops when she SEES:

MARIAN -

sitting on the floor, propped against the door to their unit.

Paula shakes her head reprovingly at her mother who just

shrugs, chagrined.

INT. CO-OP - BATHROOM - NIGHT - LATER

Paula is in the bathroom.  She has her mother's vial of

Valium in her hand.

LIVING ROOM -

Marian is standing at the window looking down on the street.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT - MARIAN'S P.O.V.

The Disciples are backing their bikes against the curb,

parking them, and filing into the clubhouse.

BATHROOM -

Paula dispenses the remaining pills into the palm of her

hand.

LIVING ROOM -

Marian looking apprehensively down at the Disciples'

headquarters, stupefied.

Paula emerges from the bathroom in the background.  Marian

doesn't turn to acknowledge her.  She continues to stare

transfixed at the bikes and the fire-burning oil drum.

Marian doesn't answer.

Paula stands some distance from her distracted mother, a

worried expression featured on her face.

INT. CO-OP - DAY

Looking through the security eyepiece, a FISH-EYE LENS SHOT

of an attractive, but distraught woman in her twenties,

puffing a cigarette, eyes red and swollen from crying.

Marian, seemingly reassured, opens the door for her.  She

sees Marika, realizes she's upset about something, and feels

immediately compassionate toward her.

And she lets Marika in.

INT. CO-OP - DAY - A FEW MINUTES LATER

They're sitting at the dining table, having coffee.  Marian

is listening sympathetically to Marika's tale of woe.

This makes Marika laugh even harder.  Marian's story seems to

have assuaged her own grief in some parallel way.

The Disciple's MOTORCYCLES GROWL OFF SCREEN, interrupting

their tete-a-tete.

Marian and Marika both rise simultaneously from the table and

amble over to the window together.

They reach the window.

EXT. STREET - DAY - MARIAN'S AND MARIKA'S P.O.V.

The Disciples dismounting from their bikes below, shutting

down their engines and removing their helmets.

INT. CO-OP - DAY

At the window, Marian and Marika standing side by side.

Marian does a double-take and throws a backward glance at

Marika.

Marian and Marika smile at each other.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - DAY

Marian's FOOT STEPS OFF THE CURB.

WIDER ANGLE -

Marian crosses the street headed in the direction of the

Satan's Disciples headquarters.

The Disciple Prospect is sitting alone, guarding the line of

parked Harleys.  He's wearing dark aviator shades and his

trademark red bandana tied over his head.  Marian steps

bravely right up to him.

The Disciple Prospect removes his sunglasses and looks at her

mock reprovingly.

Marian seems to accept the explanation.  She glances up.

THE CLUBHOUSE DOOR -

The black, forbidding door leading into the clubhouse with

its painting of Death on a stylized Harley, gripping

lightning bolts for handlebars.

DISCIPLE PROSPECT -

looking at Marian looking up at the door.

EXT. CLUBHOUSE ENTRANCE - DAY - A FEW MOMENTS LATER

The Disciple Prospect emerges from the club with the HEAD

DISCIPLE, a gentle giant of a man with a long, flowing wispy

beard and an old man's paunch.  They're muttering about

something.

The Head Disciple glances over at Marian standing curbside,

expectantly awaiting approval.  He sees that she's ingenuous.

Marian, smiling, comes forward.

And the three disappear inside.

INT. SATAN'S DISCIPLES' CLUBHOUSE - DAY

The hallway leading into the clubhouse is dark and gloomy.

ROCK MUSIC assails them as they make their passage into the

main room.

CLUBHOUSE MAIN ROOM -

They reach the main room where about ten or so DISCIPLES are

lounging about.  One has his nose in a book, The Road Less

Traveled.  Another reads the Wall Street Journal.  Two others

are seated at a card table, playing a game of poker.  Still

another is sprawled on a couch, smoking a cigarette.  The

walls are festooned with biker posters.  The place is a bit

of a mess, but innocuous.

The Head Disciple stands in the center of the room and

addresses his clan.

He turns to Marian, realizing he doesn't know her name.

Marian blushes at their warm response to her unexpected

appearance.

Laughter erupts.  Marian smiles.

Amiable laughter fills the room.  Marian laughs with them.

She glances all around her, fascinated by this dungeon she

had dreamed and fantasized about since she first arrived in

New York.

INSERT SHOTS -

of overflowing ashtrays, crushed beer cans, fast food

wrappers balled up and strewn on tables.

BACK -

to Marian, her brow knitted thoughtfully in a schoolmarmish

expression.

INSERT SHOTS -

of several of the Disciples' FACES, turning to her in SLOW

MOTION with mock baleful looks of disapprobation.

THERE'S A BEAT, then ...

INT. CLUBHOUSE - DAY - MONTAGE

A MONTAGE, with abbreviated SCENES DISSOLVING one into

another of Marian supervising a thorough, top-to-bottom

cleaning of the clubhouse:

One Disciple sprays Easy-Off in a blackened oven.

Another empties ashtrays.

Yet Another vacuums.

Still others pick up wrappers from under the couch, while

Marian wags a reproving finger at them.

One Disciple tosses the contents of an ashtray under the

couch while Marian isn't looking.

INT. CLUBHOUSE - DAY - MONTAGE CONTINUING - LATER

Marian in the kitchen, wearing the cut-off blue jeans

insignia jacket of the Satan's Disciples, their colors

emblazoned on the back.  She pops the top on a can of beer

and pours some of it into a huge pot of chili she's stirring

over a stove, while the Disciples sit patiently in the

background at a bar awaiting the food.

Marian tries a sip of the beer and some of the Disciples

smile approvingly.

A FEW MOMENTS LATER -

Marian ladles chili into all of their bowls in a series of

JUMP CUTS.

INT. CLUBHOUSE - DAY - STILL LATER

All the Disciples are huddled around Marian in the middle of

the clubhouse, as if she were the mother hen, arms folded

across their chests, smiles creasing their faces, sated.

Marian starts off.

Some of the Disciples exchange petulant looks, rolling their

eyes at the request.

All the Disciples break into laughter.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY

A narrow, stand-alone ten-story isosceles-shaped office

building, on an island of land in downtown Manhattan.

ESTABLISHING SHOT.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

Paula, with her mother in tow, knocks on an open office door.

NEW ANGLE -

DON PALMER, an avuncular-looking man in his mid-forties rises

from his desk.

Paula and Marian enter the office and halt mid-room across

from his desk.

Paula and Mr. Palmer exchange disquieting glances.

Paula is in a mild state of shock hearing her mother's

fantastical anecdote.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Paula is sitting at the dining table with a plate piled with

roast chicken, potatoes, and broccoli in front of her.  She

has a worried look etched on her face.

Marian is in the kitchen in the background, feeling light and

happy, a singsong quality to her voice.  She brings a plate

of food for herself to the table.

Marian sits down at the table and takes a sip of her wine,

picks up her utensils and gets ready to dig in.  She turns to

Paula who isn't touching her food, her head in her hands.

Marian, seemingly oblivious of her daughter's feelings,

prattles on.

Marian finally notices that Paula isn't listening.

Marian retreats into herself, sips her wine - as if she,

herself, now wonders if she's lost her mind - and her buoyant

mood deflates almost at once.

Marian doesn't remember, and her daughter's words pierce her.

She's afraid to object.

Paula lays a reassuring hand on Marian's arm, talks to her

condescendingly, as if she were a child.

Marian doesn't bother to argue, fearing anything she might

say would compromise her.

Paula grips Marian's arm a little tighter and shakes it

gently as if snapping her back to reality.  Marian returns

her a tight-lipped smile.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

Marian, lying supine on the convertible sofa bed by the open

window, snoring peacefully.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - NIGHT

On the sidewalk, the Disciple Prospect sits next to the fire

breathing oil drum, standing sentry over the Harleys.

One of the Disciples comes out of the clubhouse and they high

five.  The Disciple mounts his Harley and is about to kick

start it to life, when the Disciple Prospect rises from his

stool.

The Disciple about to start his bike, turns.

The Disciple Prospect raises two fingers to his lips in a

kind of warning, then gestures up to Paula's co-op where

Marian is sleeping.

The Disciple, remembering the new rule, nods assent with a

slightly annoyed expression.

Then, he puts his Harley into neutral, dismounts, and starts

slowly walking it down the quiet, ill-lit street.

INT. CO-OP - NIGHT

The room is cast in soft ambient light from the street.

Paula comes into the living room and lies down next to her

mother on the sofa bed and rouses her awake.  Marian swims

leadenly back to consciousness.

Marian pats her daughter on the arm.  Paula pricks up her

ears for a minute.

EXT. CENTRAL PARK - DAY

A lovely, sun-drenched day.  Shadows dapple a promenade along

one of the park's many ponds.  Paula and Marian walk arm-in

arm.

They walk off into the golden light.

INT. CO-OP - DAY

Marian is finishing up her packing.  Paula comes from the

kitchen, bearing a gift for her mother to take home with her.

Paula extends her arms and embraces her mother.

Paula blows her mother a kiss and Marian throws her daughter

a little wave.

EXT. EAST 5TH STREET - DAY

Marian steps down the stairs of her daughter's building.  A

smile breaks out on her face when she SEES:

A MOTORCADE -

of idling Harleys in the middle of the street, waiting for

her.

MARIAN -

turns to the Head Disciple, materializing behind her,

carrying her luggage.  He gestures with his head toward the

motorcycles.

THE MIDDLE OF THE STREET -

The Disciple Prospect takes Marian's luggage from the Head

Disciple and hauls it over to one of the waiting Harleys and

straps it on to the carrying rack.

Then, he helps Marian onto the back of the Harley she's going

to be riding to the airport.  Gently, he places a helmet -

festooned with decals of fire-breathing reptiles - over her

head and affixes the chin-strap.

Marian nods and beams at the same time.

The other Harleys form a circle around Marian's motorcycle.

The Disciple Prospect gives them a signal and they start off,

one by one, forming a V-shaped procession.

Marian, completely comfortable on her motorcycle, her arms

around her Disciple escort, her fever dream now manifest.

CRANE UP as the procession heads down East 5TH.

WHITE OUT -

