FADE IN:

OPEN COUNTRY - DAY

Endless green hills bisected by a ribbon of highway. A road

gang clearing brush by the side of the road... Twenty-five

men in prison fatigues sweating through their mid-afternoon

labor.

THREE GUARDS

Flank the working prisoners... Mountie hats, shotguns,

sidearms, sunglasses; they look like they mean it.

HIGHWAY

A battered pickup appears...approaches. Suddenly, it coughs,

shudders, stalls. A big Blackfoot Indian named BILLY BEAR

gets out and starts cursing and kicking the vehicle.Then he

begins walking toward the road gang...

ROADSIDE

BRADY is the Guard near the center of the work gang; he

smiles at the oncoming man, pokes a prisoner beside him.

The prisoner is GANZ who looks up, grins at Brady...

Brady laughs as Billy Bear closes in on him.

Ganz leans on his hoe, speaks as Billy passes...

Billy whirls, swings at Ganz. Both men roll to the ground.

THE OTHER GUARDS

Seeing the commotion, they run toward it.

GANZ AND BILLY

As they struggle, Billy slips a pistol into Ganz' hand.

ROADSIDE

Brady pulls Billy away from Ganz just 'as one of the other

officers arrives... Ganz suddenly whips out a pistol, shoots

Brady at point-blank range. Before the other Guards can even

react, Billy comes out with his own pistol, caps the Second

Guard.

THIRD GUARD

Still forty yards away... In mid-draw, be howls as a bullet

from Ganz breaks the nearby ground. He fires, then turns and

runs for the prison bus.

GANZ

Smiling, fires twice. but the range is too great for pistol

work...

THE OTHER PRISONERS

Watching....Then they all scatter in different directions...

GANZ

Hefts his weapon...

He and the big Indian run to the pickup, climb in and roar

away.

INT. BUS

The THIRD GUARD making a call on the police radio...

FURTHER DOWN THE HIGHWAY

Several miles from the escape... A big semi parked by the

side of ttie road; back doors to the closed trailer open. A

station wagon parked across the road. The pickup appears,

approaches the semi, slows down and drives up the ramp into

the van. Ganz and Billy jump out, shove the ramp up inside

the truck and close the big doors.

STATION WAGON

Ganz and Billy climb inside ancl roar off, back in the

direction of the road gang.

BILLY BEAR

Takes off his hat, puts on a baseball cap and sunglasses...

Ganz dives for the floor. Three police cars go by, sirens

blaring, lights flashing. They pass the road gang. Ganz

reappear, smiles...

HIGHWAY

The station wagon blasts down the pavement... Becomes a small

dot on the landscape.

TRANSITION.

A DOORWAY - NIGHT

the portal slams open revealing a man holding a huge

pistol,jack cates, s.F.P.D., a large and powerful man... He

stealthily moves up a stairwell.

CORRIDOR

He stops at the top of the stairs... Listens gun still ready.

A continuous sound of running water... Cates moves toward the

bathroom. Rips the door open.

BATHROOM

The shape behind the shower curtain freezes. Cates, gun held

level, moves forward... Rips the shower curtain open.

Revealing a young and very beautiful woman, ELAINE MARSHALL.

Elaine stares at him as Cates turns off the water.

A moment as she continues to stare at his pistol.

Elaine shakes her head and smiles, folds her arms over her

breasts, shivers a little... Cates looks at the cylinder,

spins it...

Be puts the gun down on the edge of the sink, embraces her.

They both smile.

TRANSITION.

BEDROOM

Cates in bed with Elaine.  She wears his shirt.

She smiles at him after this. It looks like they'll kiss.

Their faces are close.  Then she lightly moves back.

He stops her in the middle of the sentence by kissing her,

then pulls back...

Their faces are very close ... but they don't touch for

another second.

TRANSITION.

SAN FRANCISCO - DAWN

Titles continue.

Tugs churning across the bay... Quiet city streets. Parked

cars covered with early morning dew... A newspaper truck

slowly grinds by, drops a bundleand moves on.

EMBARCADERO - DAWN

The station wagon pulls up to a young punk, HENRY WONG, on a

motorcycle.

Billy Bear smiles and leans out the driver's side window.

Henry produces some credit cards.  Billy passes them to Ganz

for inspection.

Ganz snorts derisively.

Ganz pockets the credit cards as Henry wheels away.

INT.  STATION WAGON

INT.  STATION WAGON

Ganz stares at Billy.

Billy smiles.

They drive off.

NORTH BEACH - RESIDENTIAL STREET - DAWN

First light breaks over Telegraph Hill. A quiet row of

Victorian townhouses now converted into apartments.

APARTMENT BEDROOM - EARLY MORNING

Cates is sprawled across the double bed; Elaine is on the

verge of falling off the edge. Cates' eyes snap open.  A

second later, his wrist watch alarm goes off.  He turns it

off, gets out of bed and begins pulling on his pants. Elaine

sits up in bed, still wearing Cates' blue shirt... Cates

picks up a robe as Elaine gets out of bed on the opposite

side, throws the robe to Elaine... She takes off the shirt,

swaps it for the robe and throws the shirt to Jack.

He buttons his shirt and heads for the kitchen.

KITCHEN

Cates brushing his teeth at the sink, Elaine making coffee.

He keeps brushing.

He stops brushing, turns and looks at her.

She pours some coffee, hands him a cup and saucer... Cates

pours some whiskey into it from a flask.

Cates picks his holstered .44 off a chair back and begins

strapping it on.

He turns away, moves into the corridor near the stairwell.

She stands frozen... He turns back and looks at her; it's

hard to apologize.

She is warmed up by the first part, amused by the second; she

approaches...

He moves closer, kisses her..

He turns to go down the stairwell...

She puts a scarf around his neck.

They don't kiss.  He nods appreciately, the scarf in hand as

he turns and goes.

STREET - NORTH BEACH - MORNING

Cates comes out of Elaine's apartment building, crosses to

his whipped and battered  64 Cadillac convertible, notices a

parking ticket stuck under the windshield wiper...

Shoves the ticket in his coat pocket, gets into the Caddie

puts the scarf around the rear view mirror, starts the engine

and guns away...

CITY STREET

Cates driving the convertible; he comes down a hill and turns

toward the East Bay...

TRANSITION.

GOLDEN GATE PARK - MORNING

Henry Wong, seated on a park bench. Now very dead, a bullet

hole in the middle of his forehead. Billy Bear is seated next

to him on the bench reading the race form.

GANZ

Using the telephone at an outdoor booth a few feet beyond the

bench.

STREET - BROADWAY DISTRICT - DAY

LUTHER and ROSALIE, a young couple, turn a corner.  A dark

parody of all-American young marrieds.  They are bickering as

usual.

Suddenly, Billy and Ganz descend on Luther and Rosalie and

pull them into their station wagon..

INT.  STATION WAGON

Billy has Rosalie by the mouth, gagging her with his big

paw... Ganz has his gun at Luther's neck.

He mimes the gesture... snap...

Ganz finally takes the gun from the neck.

Rosalie is rubbing her neck now that she's been released...

Ganz gestures to Billy.

Luther desperately doesn't like this.

He smiles at Luther, pinches him on the cheek, shoves him out

of the car.

LUTHER

Stands shivering as it powers away.

WALDEN HOTEL - DAY

A small hotel on one of the quiet streets behind Union Square.

A GREEN COUGAR

Pulls up across the street.

INT. CAR

Tha car arrives in front of the hotel.

Rosalie is very nervous.

Ganz gives her a casual smile.

They move out of the car, head for the hotel.

LOBBY

A FRIZZY YOUNG BLONDE sits behind the desk in a mirrored

entrance hall.  She reads a lurid paperback. Morning traffic

streams by outside as Ganz, Billy and Rosalie enter and

approach the desk.

She smiles at Ganz.

Passes a form across. Ganz signs it, Frizzy glances at his

signature then takes a key from the rack behind.

BILLY BEAR

Sees a couple approaching, he shoves the dead man down on the

bench and spreads the newspaper over his head.  The body now

looking like a typical park bum who has spent the night.

Billy walks over to Ganz.

Billy smiles, takes the Polaroid...

POLAROID

A close shot of the dead man with the bullet hole in his

forehead.

GANZ

Takes the photograph back from Billy and slips it into his

jacket pocket...

He takes the hot credit cards out of his pocket, the name

embossed on the plastic..

Hangs up. The two men head for a green Plymouth...

TRANSITION.

She gives him a slightly knowing look.

Ganz sends her back a sharp look.

Ganz picks up his suitcase, walks over to the nearest

stairwell.  Billy and Rosalie follow...

TRANSITION.

STREET

Bars starting to fill up with mid-day customers... A black

Chevy cruises past and stops further up the block. Two

Plainclothesmen, VANZANT and ALGREN, get out of the car. As

they start toward the Walden...

THE CADILLAC CONVERTIBLE

Pulls up near the two men. Cates climbs out of his car and

walks over to them.

Algren nods over to the parking lot opposite.

Cates smiles at the verbal positioning he's used to with his

colleagues.

Vanzant's turn to smile.

Algren...mediator... soothes the competitive situation.

Cates, a bit disgusted at the politics of this moment, nods...

The three men move toward the Walden.

WALDEN HOTEL LOBBY

Frizzy Blonde still behind the desk. Still reading the lurid

paperback. Unaware as Vanzant and Algren approach... She

looks up as they flash their badges.

Frizzy turns to find Cates standing beside her. He nudges her

aside. Starts going throught the register book.

Frizzy sits back down in defeat.

Cates finds the name.

Vanzant turns to Cates.

Cates watches the two Detectives head for the elevator.

SECOND FLOOR CORRIDOR

Vanzant and Algren move down the hallwayStop at the far end.

Both Detectives draw their pistols and approach a door.

ROOM

Summer dress and undergarments scatteredon the floor. LISA,

lies naked under the covers.

She matches Ganz's earlier requirements.Smoking a cigarette,

staring at the ceiling. Ganz remains on top of the blanket.

Still in his shirt and pants watching TV. Three sharp knocks

at the door. Ganz reacts as if he's received an electric

shock. His hand goes under the pillow... Comes up with an

automatic. Shoves it hard into Lisa's stomach.

Another knock. Ganz makes her move to the door.

She grabs her dress and tries to pull it on.

Shoves harder with the pistol.

She calls out.

CORRIDOR

Vanzant and Algren stand back from the door. Guns held ready.

R00M

Lisa looks from the door back to Ganz. Then at the gun held

against her. She's petrified.

A smile on Ganz' face. Almost as if he's enjoying the moment.

I'll just be a minute.

CORRIDOR

Vanzant and Algren waiting. Sounds of movement from within

the room.

LOBBY

Cates moves toward the foot of the stairwell. Looks across at

mirror on the wall opposite. The entire lobby covered from

this spot. Every angle, including Frizzy.

ROOM

Ganz gestures to Lisa.

Ganz belts her with his gun; she falls..Ganz goes through the

connecting door. Slips into the adjacent room.

BILLY'S ROOM

Another Hooker cowers in the corner, pulling on her clothes.

She's a Mexican girl in a ridiculous 'Indian' outfit.

Billy goes to where Rosalie is awkwardlytied to a chair with

an electric dord.  He pulls her to her feet as Ganz moves by.

CORRIDOR

Vanzant reaches down, tries the knob.  Locked. Algren moves

back, preparing to kick the door down.

ADJACENT ROOM

Ganz opens the door behind the two cops. Raises his pistol

and fires. Billy's shots follow immediately. Hits Vanzant.

Algren rolls just as Ganz fires again. Wounded, he gets off

three shots, then moves inside Ganz' room. Ganz and Billy run

for the elevator... Exchange two more shots with Algren. The

Mexican Girl begins screaming in Spanish...

LOBBY

Cates draws his .44. Races up the stairs three at a time.

Frizzy starts to frantically call the police.

CORRIDOR

Cates stops at the landing. Vanzant's body sprawled across

the hallway. Algren back in the corridor, still losing

blood... Leans against the wall for support... Lisa staggers

out of the room, screams. Algren points the gun toward the

elevator. Indicating where Ganz and Billy have just fled.

Cates starts back down toward the lobby.

ELEVATOR

Ganz and Billy, guns ready as the carriage jolts downward.

Rosalie is terrified, sobbing...

CATES

Arrives at the halfway turn of the second staircase. He takes

the next flight in two jumps.

ELEVATOR

As the doors open, Ganz gestures for Billy and Rosalie to

wait as he heads for the lobby.

LOBBY

Cates literally flies into the lobby just as Ganz appears. He

slams Ganz against a column, belts him across the neck with

his pistol. Ganz screams with pain, drops his gun... Cates

again slams him with his pistol, felling him...

GANZ

Slides across the floor.

CATES Senses something ... moves just as Billy appears behind

and fires at him. The bullet takes out a window. Cates dives

over the desk. Another bullet chews up the wood.

LOBBY

Frizzy has been standing beside her desk, screaming... Cates'

move and the accompanying bulletspanic her. She dashes for

safety... Cates gets to his feet behind cover. Sees Billy

holding Rosalie by the throat. Frizzy begins to scream.

Cates doesn't miss a beat. He slowly levels his .44. Takes

careful aim and starts to fire at Billy.

Cates' shot narrowly misses Rosalie. The bullet smashes into

a mirror above Billy's head. Cates keeps moving closer, gun

pointed straight ahead. Billy pushes the pistol against

Rosalie'temple. For the first time, Cates hesitates. They

face each other across the length of the lobby.

ALGREN

Struggles down the remaining steps into the lobby. He still

holds his revolver. Dares not raise it towards Billy and

Rosalie.

BILLY BEAR

Covers Algren from near the entrance.  He's confused, doesn't

know what to do... He keeps hold of Rosalie.

GANZ

His eyes catch Algren's...

Algren tosses his gun to the floor.

No response.

Cates lowers his gun. Finally lets it drop to the floor.

Cates does; Ganz picks it up, smiles, looks at Billy.

Then back to Cates as Billy runs out the entrance with

Rosalie.

He's going to kill Cates. But first be glances at Algren.

Then, almost casually, shoots him twice with Cates' .44.

Algren staggers back. Dead before he hits the floor. Cates

twists sideways just as Ganz fires. The bullet misses. Again

Frizzy starts screaming and struggling. Ganz swipes the woman

across the head with the gun. Her body slumps to the floor.

Police sirens can be heard in the distance. Cates makes an

attempt for Algren's gun. A bullet splatters against the

floor only inches from his outstretched fingers. The gun

skitters out of reach.

Ganz smiles.

With your own gun, cop. How does it feel? Cates leaps into a

wooden phone booth. Ganz leisurely blasts away at the booth

with both his and Cates' gun. Two bullets crash into the

booth. Ganz moves to check inside the booth but sirens are

ominously near. Ganz finally retreats out the entrance.

STREET

Billy and Rosalie weave their way across street to the

Cougar. They make a U-turn. Ganz runs out. Car pulls out,

then the police cars and vans begin to arrive.

PHONE BOOTH

Chunks of wood on the floor. Shafts of light through a dozen

bullet holes. Shattered receiver dangling from a cord. Cates,

wedged tight into the very top of the cubicle. He drops to

the floor.

LOBBY

The police arrive. Swarm into the hotel. All eyes on Cates as

he rushes to Algren. Too late... Cates realizes Algren is

dead. He cradles Algren's head as he stares at the arriving

TAC Squad and Patrolmen.

TRANSITION.

SQUAD ROOM DAY

Cates walks in. Several Detectives gather around him.

A snotty YOUNG COP paces.

Cates looks at the Old Cop.

The OLD COP shrugs... looks in his desk...

Cates loses it for a second, lands on him with both hands,

pushes him against a wall... The room goes quiet. Cates cools

down.

The other cops don't intervene. They just watch.  Cates cools

down, straightens up. HADEN walks by, or, rather, speeds by.

The Old Cop hands Cates a gun, a traditional Army .45...

Haden continues moving away.

As Cates is examining the gun, RUTH, a lab technician, enters

and drops three 8 x 10's on the desk near Cates.

Cates lifts the blow-ups, each one showing a different aspect

of a spent bullet.

Cates starts pinning the blow-ups onto a large bulletin board

on the wall. Nearby, at the same time (within Cates' line of

sight, within earshot), Lisa, the Hooker, is being

interrogated by a POLICE-WOMAN who pulls the statement off

the typewriter. Nearby, the Indian Hooker is being

interrogated in Spanish.

Cates has gotten interested in the last part of this ...

drifts toward her... A DETECTIVE comes through, begins

distributing I.B.M. printouts to Cates, the other nearby

officers..

Cates reads the printout, then smoothly,imperiously, he takes

over the questioning of Lisa.

From the side, Ruth is pointing at the photos...

She turns, produces the third photo.  Pins it beside the one

from the Walden Hotel.

She shows him two more pictures.  Police forensics shots of

Henry Wong ... very dead on the park bench...

Lisa continues with the Policewoman.

Cates looks up as he hears that remark.  Notices KEHOE,

another Detective, entering with a long suitcase.

Cates watches Kehoe unpack the box.

Cates and Kehoe start going through the suitcase.  Kehoe

produces a speed loader for a .44...

Kehoe next produces several boxes of shells.

An Attendant comes through, hands Kehoe a file. He opens it,

shows the file to Cates who reads the name under the mug shot.

Kehoe opens the second file.  Four mug shots are inside.

Cates spins the file around so that both Ruth an Kehoe can

see it, throws the forensic shots down beside it.

Haden comes out of his office.

Cates ignores him.

Cates walks into Haden's cubicle.

Haden shuffles some papers, seems to ignore Cates.

Cates almost smiles at Haden.

Leaves.

TRANSITION.

CITY STREET

Heavy vehicle and pedestrian traffic. Cates stands near a hot

dog stand. Elaine joins him. Cates is eating a hot dog and

studying a police file.

He hands her a dog.

He points to the file.

They begin to stroll down the street.

She's not happy with this attitude.

Pause.

TRANSITION.

PRISON CELL BLOCK - DAY

Cates and a GUARD on the upper deck approaching the door to

the cell block... The Guard shouts upward.

With a huge metal clatters the door to the cell block opens.

CELL BLOCK - NEAR ENTRANCE

Cates and the Guard go through the door.

They move forward together.

The Guard shrugs, stays by the door.

CATES

He walks down the cell block. Inmates stare at him from

inside the stark cells. They don't know who he is, but they

can smell a cop. Cates stops at Twenty-two, looks inside...

a bit startled. Obviously, Reggie Hammond has connections and

taste. The paint is fresh; there's framed prints on the wall

instead of pin-ups, and the overall feeling is that of a

graduate school dorm rather than a prison. Cates turns, nods

to the Guard at the end of the cell block. He throws a switch

and the door opens.

HAMMOND'S CELL

Cates steps inside. Hammond is at a table wearing a Sony

Walkman and writing in some detailed ledgers with a fountain

pen. He's boogeying in his seat to the music. Sprawled on a

bunk nearby is LEROY, another black inmate close to Hammond's

age. Leroy is leafing through a copy of a skin magazine. He

doesn't even look at Cates.

Cates steps inside the cell.

No answer. Cates leans over, hits the override button on the

Sony.

Hammond jumps, grabs his ears in pain ... He pulls the

headset off and glares at Cates.

He tosses the Walkman to Leroy who dutifully puts it on.

Cates takes the forensic photo out of his pocket, passes it

across the table to Hammond.  He looks at it, hardly reacts.

He passes the photo back.

Cates swings the cell door back open.

He smiles, decides to play his card.

Hammond jerks his head around.

Pause.

Cates smiles.

He turns, goes out. The door clangs behind him. Hammond jumps

up and bangs on the bars, shouts at Cates' back...

Cates turns, saunters back, leans against the door.

TRANSITION.

Cates typing several of official looking documents while

seated across from a rather dour-looking bureaucrat named BOB.

Handed over by Bob.

He begins signing the documents.

He hands over the papers. Smiles.

Bob studies the sheet.

TRANSITION.

PROCESS ROOM - PRISON - DAY

The GUARD leads Hammond to a steel cage. Harmnond's now

wearing a beautifully tailored plaid suit.

The Guard shouts to ANOTHER GUARD on the far side.

The gate slides open. The Guard geztures for Hairmond to

enter. Hammond walks to the far side of the pen.  The first

gate closes, the second one opens.

Hammond turns and walks over to Cates. The Guard comes up to

Cates, double checks his orders then unlocks Hammond's cuffs.

He looks over at Hammond who smiles at him.  Then looks at

Harmond's clothes...

Hammond dusts off a sleeve.

Cates hands some papers to the Guard.

The Guard walks away as Hammond feels Cates' lapel.

Cates gives him a look.

Cates slaps a cuff on Hammond's outstrethand, then puts the

other on his own wrist.

Cates yanks on the cuffs.  They move away.

OUTSIDE THE JAIL - DAY

CATES LEADS HAMMOND OUT.  THEY HEAD FOR CATES' BATTERED

CADILLAC.

As they approach the car...

Cates gets behind the wheel and kicks the engine over.

Cates drives off.

EXT. STREET - MISSION DISTRICT - DAY

Cates' Cadillac purrs into view, entering a deserted street

within a rundown neighborhood.

INT. CADDY

Hammond seated next to Cates.

Hammond smiles.

STREET

The Caddy pulls to a stop.

Cates double-checks his .38.

Cates smiles.

Handcuffs Hammond to the door handle.  Grabs the car keys.

LUTHER'S VICTORIAN

Cates knocks at the door. Nothing. Knocks again ... no

response.. From inside, he hears a faint noise but no

response to the knock. Holding the .38 in one hand, Cates

tries the knob with the other. The door opens. Cautiously,

Cates steps inside.

INT. LUTHER'S VICTORIAN

Long corridor ahead. No sign of Luther.

CATES

Moves down the corriaor, checks the rooms off to one sides.

LUTHER LUTHER

slips into the hallway behind Cates... Cates turns just as he

gets to the kitchen. Luther holds a gun. Cates drops to a

crouch and aims the .38. Luther whirls and fires at Cates. As

wood and plaster fly out all round him, Cates makes a running

dive for the floor. Luther runs out before Cates has

regainehis feet.

STREET

Luther rushes out the front door and heads toward the

Cadillac.

HAMMOND

Watches as Luther heads down the sidewaltoward him. As he

starts to pass by... Hammond steps out suddenly... Flattens

him with the car door. Luther drops, stunned. Hammond, still

restricted by being cuffed to the door handle, reaches and

grabs his pistol.

Hammond looks up. He sprints across the pavement. Aims his

gun at Hammond.

Long moment. Then Hammond smiles and tosses him Luther's

pistol.  Luther groans. Cates puts his foot on Luther's belly

and pulls himself into a standing position, cuffs him.

Cates now has Luther ready to be questioned.

Hammond turns to smile at Luther.

Luther leans forward, looks straight at Cates.

Cates grabs the still open Cadillac door, slams it into

Luther. He falls backwards. Cates looks at Hammond.

Luther sits up again, glares at Cates.

Cates slams the car door agains him again.

Luther besitates...flashes a look at Hammond, who sends him

a silent fleeting reply.  Maybe Cates sees this. Maybe not.

Another look at Hammond.

Something's wrong with all this.  Cates isn't sure just what.

Not yet. He looks at Hammond.

Luther makes a play toward Hammond, who laughs, doesn't even

flinch.

Cates wrestles Luther into the back seat, turns to Hammond.

HAMMOND Just stares at Cates, keeps smiling...

TRANSITION.

BOOKING - POLICE PRECINCT - NIGHT

Two Uniforms follow a sullen Luther, Cates and Hammond to the

DUTY SERGEANT... Cates speaks to him through the small

window.

The Sergeant begins typing out an arrest form.

Cates looks back at Hammond as Luther is hauled away.

As they move through the honeycomb of office partitions.

Cates picks up the phone on the other side of the booking

desk. Dials ... waits for a response as TWO HOOKERS are led

past by an Arresting Officer. Hammond gives them the eye.

ELAINE'S APARTMENT

Elaine is on the kitchen phone, speakingwhite putting her

coat on over her uniform for the evening.  One look at the

way it is cut and you know why she hates her job.

Her face falls. Making the offer was hard enough.

Jack is very irritated by this turn of events.

Cates says nothing.  She hangs up angrily.

BOOKING

Hammond is working on the girls.

Cates walks over and pulls him by the shoulder.

TRANSITION.

UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - NIGHT

INT.  POLICE HEADQUARTERS

Cates and Hammond at a candy machine.  Cates drops in a

quarter, throws Hammond a candy bar...

They move toward a row of parked cars.

AT THE CADDY

Hammond gets in the car as Cates readjusts Elaine's scarf on

the mirror.

Cates frowns at him.

Cates climbs in behind the wheel of the Cadillac.

Cates takes a belt from his flask.

Cates starts the motor, slams it into gear.  Accelerates out

to the street.

TRANSITION.

EXT.  CITY STREET NIGHT

Cates and Hammon booming along in the Caddy.

Smiles. Cates smiles back at him, almost cruelly

Cates keeps smiling.

Pained expression on Cates' face as he comes back to reality.

Cates gives him a hard look.

They keep driving.

TRANSITION.

MISSION DISTRICT - STREET - NIGHT

The Cadillac drives slowly past a bar called Torchie's.

Stops at the end of the block.

Cates and Hammond step out, glance toward the bar.

Hamnond's had enough of this debate.

Hammond thinks it over..

Cates reaches into his pocket.

He takes the badge anyway as they head for the entrance.

TORCHIE'S WESTERN BAR

They step inside. Hammond reacts to...

REDNECK CITY

Longhorns mounted over the bar, Rebel Flags, Lone Star Beer,

armadillo posters. Even the waitresses wear Stetsons.

Rockabilly pounding from the jukebox. A Cowgirl Stripper is

doing the grind on a small podium.

Cates smiles, finds a table in the corner. A Cowgirl comes

over to take his order.

HAMMOND

Takes a deep breath, moves toward the bar. Smiles at the good

ol' boys. They don't smile back. He sits down at the bar.

Hamnond looks around the room.

THE BARTENDER

places a glass in front of him, picks up the dollar as

Harmond flashes Cates' shield.

The Bartender shakes his head, gives him a scowl.

Hammond lifts the shot glass and throws it through the mirror

behind the bar. Sudden silence throughout the room.

The Bartender walks down toward Cates.

HAMMOND

Moves away from the bar. He stops at a booth occupied by

FOUR COWBOY PUNKS,

one a very big man.  Hammond grabs him by the arm and pulls

him up.

The Punk breaks free, aims a massive haymaker at Hammond.

Gets a right to the stomach for his trouble.

Looks at the others.

He grabs the next by the arm, yanks him up.

CATES Quietly sips his beer. The other occupants of the bar

watch Hammond herd the four Punks to the end wall.

A BIG COWBOY

when Hammond isn't looking, he dashes toward the exit, Cates

puts out a leg. Sends the Cowboy crashing into a crowdedtable.

HAMMOND

Turns around at the noise.

The Redneck Punks are now spread-eagled against the wall.

Hammond searches the first. He drops a wallet on the floor

and moves to the second. A switchblade, some credit cards and

another wallet fall to the floor. The last Punk has only a

roll of bills.  Hammond holds the money up to his face.

Hammond turns to the Bartender...

Walks back to the Bartender.

He reaches for a towel under a pyramid of bar glasses. Jerks

the towel, the pyramid capsizes onto the floor. Huge crash as

the glasses break into a million fragments.

The Bartender doesn't have the look of a happy man.

Hammond turns, grins at Cates. As far as he's concerned, he's

won the bet.  Cates nods, slips out the door.

He looks desperate.

Turns to go, then turns back.

Smiles, turns and goes.

TRANSITION.

STREET - ACROSS FROM TORCHIE'S - NIGHT

Hammond steps out of the bar.  He crosses to Cates by the car.

Pause.

Hammond smiles.

Hammond reluctantly takes out a .22 automatic, slams it down

on the hood of the car.

Hammond hands them over with the knife.

A long moment. Then Cates slowly lifts the .22 automatic.

Removes the clip.  Throws it across the street. Hands Hammond

the automatic.

He throws the gun away.

They walk up the block.

TRANSITION.

STREET - CHINATOWN - NIGHT

Neon signs with Sino lettering.

CATES AND HAMMOND

Walk down the street, spot a shop with a window display of

tools.  Look up at the darkened apartment windows. They walk

to the end of the block.

ALLEY

Stairwells lead to each apartment above the shops. Cates and

Hammond move along the buildings... Arrive at the back of the

hardware store. Quietly, they start to ascend the stairs.

STAIRWELL

The metal steps extend onto a platform by the back door.

Cates leans over the railings to look through the adjacent

window. Between the drawn curtains, a flickering glimmer from

a TV set. On the tube, various poses from stridently

exercising women.

Looks again. A female form passes by, goes out of the room.

DOORWAY

Cates gestures to the door lock. Hammond fiddles with it for

several moments. The door swings open. They step into a

darkened room.

APARTMENT

Cates takes the .38 from his pocket. He stops near the open

bedroom doorway. He looks at Hammond and then both men step

quickly into the room.

Hammond reaches for the light switch. Takes a heavy blow.

Slumps against the door. A Woman's voice screams out.

The light goes on. Cates' gun points at a YOUNG WOMAN (CASEY)

in a flimsy dressing gown. Saturday Night Special held

between her palms, police style... A SECOND WOMAN (SALLY)

stands beside Hammond at the light switch. Larger and

slightly older than the first, she wears a man's shirt. Holds

a baseball bat in her right hand.

Pause.

Cates takes out his badge-Shows it to Casey.

Cates takes two steps toward Casey...

He takes two more steps toward her.

Holds out his hand.

She hands Cates the gun. Sally prods Hammond with the

baseball bat.

He snatches the bat out of her hands.

Casey walks over to the phone.

After a moment, Casey puts down the phone.

Turns to Casey.

Cates looks over at Hammond.

Hannond starts for the door with Cates.

TRANSITION.

STREET  CHINATOWN - NIGHT

The two men walk among the bright neon lights. Neither of

them very happy.

A long look at Hammond.

They walk past.

TRANSITION.

STREET ACROSS FROM TORCHIE'S - NIGHT

They two men walk toward the Cadillac.

Hammond goes into a street rap.

They stop by the car. Cates takes the gun out, lays it on the

hood.  Hammond stares at him. Cates next takes out his

wallet, shows Hammond his badge, then lays the badge on the

car fender... Smiles.

Hits Hammond a tremendous right hand full in the face.

Hammond sags, grabs onto the car fender for support. Cates

hesitates ... and Hammond kicks out, sending the partially

open car door slamming into Cates. Cates sprawls.

Hammond aims a kick at Cates' head.  Cates blocks it with

crossed forearms, grabs, twists.  Hammond tumbles, rolls away

from Cates.  Both men struggle to their feet, circle each

other.

Hammond moves in only to receive twoquick blows from Cates,

a bit sooner than he expected.  Cates smiles.

Hammond dances in and out... Cates' breathing becomes more

labored. His windmill attack penetrates Cates' defense. Cates

clears his head, charges, bull-like ... His rush and greater

bulk send both of them crashing into some trash cans and a

brick wall.

Hammond is faster...

Cates is much stronger; Both men on their knees. They look at

one another. Silently, they move to their feet. Hammond's

back is to a wall... Cates keeps him there, negates the

lighter man's agility. They slug away, each now arm-weary...

Exchange a dozen blows. Finally, Cates steps back, arms at

his side... Breath coming like a bellows...

Hammond has to hold on to the wall; one more punch would put

him out.

Puffing away.

They stand facing one another. Hammond smiles. A black-and-

white comes roaring up the street. Sirens howling, red lights

flashing, it slides to a stop. TWO UNIFORMED COPS jump out,

guns drawn.

He keeps his gun trained on Cates,and Hammond.

Hammond rubs the side of his face. Cates falls back against

the patrol car. Still fighting for breath. The First Cop

lifts Cates' wallet off the Cadillac and looks at his badge,

shows it to the other cop.

Cates walks over, pockets his gun.

The First Cop checks out Cates' badge and I.D.

The First Cop takes out his book, starts writing.  He's

pissed.

He grabs Hammond and they head for the Cadillac.

TRANSITION.

ALL-NIGHT GAS STATION

Cadillac parked behind the service area.

RESTROOM

Hammond looks' up at his bruised face in the mirror, then

washes up.  Cates is one step ahead of him. He rolls up a

piece of the wet towel and inserts it over his bleeding gum.

Cates straightens up from the wash basin.

Cates dries off his face, starts out of the washroom.

The door closes behind Cates. Hammond leans back toward the

mirror, nudges a tooth with his finger.

GAS STATION PARKING LOT

Cates leans on the Cadillac as Hammond emerges. Hammond

starts for the passenger side.

Hammond stops.

Pause.

A long moment; Hammond decides be has no choice.

Hammond smiles his meanest smile.

Cates is unmoved.

Cates just looks at him.

He smiles.

Cates smiles back.

Cates smiles.

They get into the Caddy. Boom away.

TRANSITION.

The Cadillac moving through the city... Clock on the

dashboard showing 4 a.m. Cates at the wheel.

Smiles.

The Cadillac makes a screeching U-turn,i swings into the curb.

Cates leans out, looks at...

PARKING BUILDING

Narrow, multi-storied, with a garage-like opening and

signals... proclaiming 'Weekly-Monthly-Long Term."

CADILLAC

Hammond gets out of the car.

Stands on the sidewalk.

Stretches.

Then gets into the back seats.

Cates stares at the place.

THE CITY

Beyond the skyline, grey streaks of dawn etch the sky.

TRANSITION.

The Cadillac is pulled up facing the streets down the block

from the parking sections Cates walks in through the lot

entrance. Threads his way between the lines of parked

vehicles Tired and haggard, he carries a paper bag filled

with quick-order food.

CADILLAC

Hammond stretches on the back seat.  Cates slams the door

shut.

Hammond yawns, eases himself into a sitting position.

Cates tears the paper bag open. Passes a cup of coffee and

donut back. He sips his own coffee, adds some whiskey from

his flask... pops another bennie.

Hammond sits up.

INT. PARKING LOT BUILDING

Luther walks up to the window where a bored ATTENDANT reads

a comic book.

He passes across a faded form.

The Attendant examines the form, surprised.

The Attendant opens a key file, begins rummaging in it.

The Attendant finds the key, exits the booth. Luther follows

to an elevated stack of cars. The Attendant throws a switch,

the stack of cars begins to move.

STREET

Luther drives down the exit ramp in a dated Porsche

convertible.

The car is covered with a uniform coat of dust, except for

the windshield which has been wiped hastily clean.

Luther waits for a break in the flow of traffic, drives out.

Another street

Luther turns onto a side street and then suddenly Cate's

Cadillac appears ... starts to tail the Porsche.

CADILLAC

Cates follows Luther through several turns.

The Porsche jerks whenever it speeds up or slows down.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT. CADDY

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT. CADDY

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT. CADDY

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT. CADDY

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT. CADDY

As they follow Luther,

ANOTHER STREET

The Caddy follows the Porsche.

INT.  CADDY

As they follow Luther.

ANOTHER STREET

Luther pulls over to curb and parks.

CADILLAC

suddenly swings over several lanes of traffic and parks in

driveway of parking lot.

LUTHER - CATES & HAMMOND'S P.O.V.

He goes to the trunk. Rummages there ... picks up a flaming

red suit.

INT. CADILLAC

Hammond winces.

Under the suit is a nondescript attache case. Luther takes

it, closes the trunk. Beads down the sidewalk.

CADILLAC

They jump out of the car, follow on foot.

STREET

Luther hurries along the sidewalk.

He reaches the corner, turns quickly...

CATES AND HAMMOND

Following a little way behind.

They pause at the corner, watching the pedestrian traffic

move by. Then turn down the cross street after Luther. Follow

him down a stairwell.

SUBWAY STATION - LOBBY

Escalators and open stairwells. Luther enters and pauses by

the doorway. Commuters crowd the counters and congregate near

the stairwells. More people are seated along hard plastic

seats. But no Ganz.  And no Billy.

Luther moves further into the station.  Cates and Hammond

enter. They keep Luther fixed between them, 50 feet ahead.

Luther seems to be wandering He walks through the shop area

and back toward the escalator. Hammond remains near the

arcade while Cates blends in with the commuters. Luther puts

the briefcase down at his feet and leans against a counter.

Next to him, a loud troop of Boy Scouts marches by.  A crowd

of people from the train area below flows through the lobby

obscuring Luther from Hammond and Cates for a moment.  Cates

steps out to get a better view and suddenly spots Ganz moving

through the crowd toward Luther. Be looks over at Hammond

across the station and motions.  Then they both start moving

in on Ganz, trying to intercept him before he gets deeper

into the crowd.

Ganz moves cautiously through the station. A crumpled

newspaper held absently in his hand. He scans the faces of

the commuters and spots Luther. Fails to notice Cates and

Hammond closing in on him from two directions.

A PATROLMAN comes up. Starts chatting amiably with a Boy

Scout next to Luther. Ganz hesitates in his approach. He

motions Luther to move awaye, but Luther starts to panic when

he sees Cates and Hammond closing in...

Ganz reacts to Luther, turns and spots the two men. He makes

an immediate break for open ground. The Patrolman sees Ganz

start to run. The newspaper is thrown to the floor... Ganz

swings Cates' .44 toward Hammond.

Ganz whirls, his feet slipping on the marble floor. His shot

at Hammond goes plowing into the ceiling. The crowd starts to

panic and run in all directions.

The Patrolman has al ready brought his own gun out. Levels it

at Ganz.

BILLY BEAR

Suddenly appears, Rosalie at his side. Billy Bear's .44

blasts the Patrolman onto his back.

Ganz comes up and scrambles through the screaming patrons.

He, Billy and Rosalie head toward the escalator. Cates has

already brought out his .38... Can't get a clean shot through

the chaos.

Hammond pushes his way through the crowd to Cates.

Cates can't risk it...

A moment.

Hammond starts after Luther. Cates turns, starts to aim at

Hammond. Hesitates...

PASSENGER WALKWAY

Panic has overtaken everyone as they try to escape the madman

with the gun.

Ganz and Billy elbow and kick their way through the crowd,

tugging Rosalie along...

Cates, gun in hand, creates further-panic as he moves after

Ganz.

Ganz grabs a man beside him.

Shoves him hard into the passengers in back.

The man knocks over several more people creating a roadblock.

Ganz vaults over the railing and starts for the trains.

Cates loses a few more precious seconds grappling through the

terrorized passengers...

TRAIN AREA

The usually jammed area looks like an empty stockyard. The

patrons huddle in fear against any available wall.

Cates bursts out of the stairwell...

TUNNEL

Red and green signal lights. The light goes red, a train

roars up and the doors hiss open.

Billy and Ganz fight through the passengers getting off the

train, jump on board; Billy pulls Rosalie behind him.

CATES

Running for the doors...

Suddenly, a SECURITY OFFICER appears, riot gun in hand.

The train doors close.

He means it, points the riot gun even closer... The train in

front of him moves away.

Cates carefully places the .38 on the pavement. Then raises

his hands in the air.

TRAIN STATION - LOBBY

Witnesses stand in nervous little knots. Give versions of

what happened to notepad-toting patrolmen. Hospital

Attendants minister to various and sundry complaints.

Cates sits on a passenger bench, obviously dejected.  A

voice comes echoing from behind.

Haden, silhouetted against the light from the street.

Haden watches the Morgue Personnel wheel out the body of the

Patrolman.

Cates shrugs.

Haden starts toward the street. Looks back at Cates.

Cates looks at Haden for a moment...

Turns and walks away.

TRANSITION.

PREDMORE HOTEL - NIGHT

Hammond across the street from Predmore.

Standing in a phone booth talking into the receiver...

He turns and looks acain at the hotel...

Hangs up.

Walks into a nearby bar.

TRANSITION.

VROMAN'S ROCK CLUB

HAMMOND

Punk Dancers all over the floor.

A rock group blasting away...("NEW SHOES" - Vocal)

HAMMOND

At a back booth...

A MAN (SOSNA) approaches carrying a small suitcase.

Puts the suitcase down on the table.

Dancers sliding and jerking in front of them.

Sosna pops open the suitcase. Lid shielding the contents from

the patrons...

Suitcase arranged like q salesman's display case. Tightly

spaced rows of handguns mounted in their holsters.

Pockets a revolver with a deft move.

Opens another compartment. Hammond helps himself to two

boxes...

You know that.

A long moment.

Hammonds heads for the bar.

Stands next to a good-looking woman (RITA). Nods to the

barkeep.

Served up. He knocks half of it back, turns to the woman.

Big personality smile.

She turns away as he takes a drink. He looks at another

pretty girl (ANGELA).

She turns away.

He drinks up.

TRANSITION.

SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

Several Detectives are working at desks. Kehoe walks into the

office. He moves slowly to Cates' desk and slumps down in a

nearby chair.

Kehoe's phone begins to ring.  Cates watches hopefully.

Offers the phone to Cates.

Cates' excitement vanishes. He takes the receiver. Kehoe

begins to clean off his desk.

He slams down the receiver, leans back in the chair.

Cates shakes his head.

He walks out the door. Cates stares fixedly at the phone on

the desk. Hoping Hammond will call... Across the room another

phone starts to ring. Cates stares at the PLAINCLOTHESMAN who

answers.

Cates stiffens.

Cates snatches up the phone, shouts into it...

ELAINE

In the Chronicle Restaurant and Bar, a well appointed

establishment off Montgomery Street.

Behind Cates, Kehoe steps back into the room.

Cates swings around.

Cates interrupts.

Cates speaks back into the receiver.

He hits the bold button, starts rummaging through the desk.

Paperwork scatters in all directions.

Kehoe watches him in silence for awhile then leaves. Cates

begins to dial.

Listens for a moment.

VROMAN'S ROCK CLUB

Hammond on the phone as the band rocks away.   (MONKEY

MASH - Track only)

SQUAD ROOM

Slams down the phone. Starts toward the door. Remembers...

He dashes back to the phone, hits the other line. Hears only

a buzz.

TRANSITION.

VROMAN'S ROCK CLUB

Band blasting away on another number (THE BOYS ARE BACK IN

TOWN - VOCAL)

Hammond now in the middle of the floor dancing his ass off

with a girl named CANDY. As the song ends...

Tries his big personality smile.

This time gets one back.

She stops him.

He gives her a kiss.

The band starts up again. ("LOVE SONGS ARE FOR CRAZIES" -

VOCAL)

Cates suddenly appears... steps between them. Yells above the

band's noise.

She looks at Hammond. He nods.

Candy leaves and melts into the crowd on the dance floor.

Cates shrugs.

They move to the bar.

Hammond smiles.

Cates orders two drinks.

He opens his jacket slightly. Reveals a shoulder holster and

accompanying .45.  A long moment.

Pause.

Hammond gives him a big smile.

He nods at Candy across the way.

Big smile as Cates produces some cash. Hammond counts it

eagerly. Looks around. Candy suddenly appears like a trout

seeing a lure.  She grabs the money.

Hammond smiles, leads her out of the bar.

Cates watches them go, downs his drink. He fishes in his

pocket for a coin, moves to a wall phone. Dials...

CHRONICLE RESTAURANT BAR - NIGHT

A COCKTAIL WAITRESS answers the phone as Elaine pours a drink.

Hands her the receiver.

She slams down the receiver.

SIDEWALK - FRONT OF VROMAN'S - NIGHT

Hammond and Candy exit the rock club. A line of young Punkers

waiting to get inside... Hammond and Candy are in a tight

clinch, a little giggly.

Suddenly, Hammond sees Luther emerge from the Predmore across

the street.

Luther moves down the street with the briefcase.  Hammond

pulls Candy back inside Vroman's.

VROMAN'S ROCK CLUB - BAR

Rock group still blasting away... (LOVE SONGS ARE FOR

CRAZIES - Vocal continues)

Hammond and Candy reappear, knocking aside a waitress about

to refill Cates' drink.

Cates jumps up, runs out. Hammond looks at Candy.

He kisses her.

Runs off after Cates. She stares at him in disbelief.

STREET LIGHT

Luther checking over his shoulder for shadows, walks down the

block. Turns into a narrow street.

A BUS STOP

Luther waits, impatient.

Checks his watch.

Looks up and down the street.

He double-checks the bus stop sign over his head.

Just as a bus pulls to a stop, air brakes hissing ...

LUTHER

Gets in.

Sees that the driver is Billy Bear...

BUS

The bus starts up. Luther hesitates in the front. On the wide

rear seat is Ganz. Rosalie beside him.

He shows he's not packed.

Luther takes a step.

Luther puts the case on a side seat, opens it for display.

ANOTHER BUS STOP

Commuters look up expectantly. One of two drift toward the

curb. Jump back in alarm as the bus roars by.

BUS

Ganz is satisfied. Luther closes the case.

And then he shoots Luther. Right between the buttons.

Laughs as Rosalie begins to scream.

CATES' CADDY

Barreling down the street, ignoring red lights.

Hammond shouts over the wind.

Cates pours on the gas.

BILLY BEAR

His eyes fall on the rear view mirror. A white Caddy dances

in the vibrating glass. Billy looks over his shoulder at Ganz.

THE CADDY

Swerves into cross traffic, makes a big press forward. Comes

abreast of the driver's side of the bus.

GANZ

Smashes a side window with the two handguns.

Blasts away.

Cates driving with one hand as he draws his gun.

CATES

Looks up as glass shards sparkle down.

He speeds up ... he is neck and neck with the bus.

Hammond has a clear shot of Billy Bear who gives a side

glance at him;

Hammond doesn't shoot...

Cates slows down and fires...

Billy is hit in the shoulder. Ganz runs up and fires again...

Hammond is hit in the arm. Cates grabs Hammond by the shirt.

Yanks him close. Throws the wheel over ...

CADDY

Swerves as bullets pepper the passenger side. Stuffing flies

out of Hammondis still warm seat. The right hand windows

explode. Then the Caddy spins out.

THE BUS

Roars away...

THE CADDY

Skids into a traffic sign, demolishing some newspaper

machines. Cates curses, tries to start the car. The engine

won't turn over. He looks at the distant bus.

Pounds on the dash. What's left of the windshield falls in at

the impact.

TRANSITION.

SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

Cates at his desk. Hammond seated nearby, now with a bandaged

arm.  Haden in front of Cates, furious.

Cates says nothing...

Cates stands up.

Cates stands. Moves to Hammond. Handcuffs himself to him.

Hammond looks at Haden.

Cates and Hammond walk out.

UNDERGROUND PARKING LOT - POLICE STATION - NIGHT

Cates and Hammond walk stoically along a row of cars, arrive

at Hammond's Porsche.

Takes off Hammond's cuffs.  Looks at them.. Throws them away.

They get in and drive off.

TRANSITION.

EXT.  CITY STREET - NIGHT

The Porsche blasts by ... These men want a drink.

TRANSITION.

CHRONICLE RESTAURANT AND BAR - NIGHT

Cates and Hammond walk in. It's late, the place is almost

empty. The Bartender is a woman with her back to them

conferring with a waitress about something.

The barmaid turns around to take their order.  It's Elaine.

Hammond looks at her. He nudges Cates.

Gives her a big smile.

She pours three glasses of cognac. A STRAGGLER at the end of

the bar pipes up.

Elaine turns to him; it's short and sweet.

Cates holds up his pistol. The man's eyes widen and he turns

his angry move toward her into a skedaddle out of the bar.

Elaine finishes drying a glass and approaches.

He finishes his drink, puts down the glass.

Looks back at Hammond...

Moves away.

She looks at him carefully. They both grin.

CATES

In the phone booth.

Hangs up.

ELAINE AND HAMMOND

Cates returns...

Hammond cuts in.

Smiles. Cates reflects for a moment.

He looks at Elaine.

He kisses Elaine.

They exit the bar.

TRANSITION.

EXT.  STREET - CHINATOVIN - NIGHT

Cates and Hammond hidden in a doorway which affords them a

good view of the alley landing to Casey and Sally's apartment.

A woman appears, turning out to be Casey carrying a shopping

bag.

Cates gives him a smile.

APARTMENT STAIRWELL

As Casey opens the door and starts toward the.stairs, Cates

and Hammond come through the door and grab her. They are now

on the ground floor stairwell.

Cates has her by the shoulder and arm; he twists her like a

vise...

She looks at Cates, knows Hammond's correct.

A long moment.

Casey's face is seared with pain at the thought of Billy

dying.

Cates looks at Reggie.

They move upward...

INT. APARTMENT - NIGHT

Cates is stealthily going to the end of the second corridor

of the kitchen and living room area. That corridor turns at

a sharp angle and goes to the back. Hammond is at the very

front of that first corridor..at a door ... he shoves it back.

INT. FIRST BEDROOM

There is a bed and  Rosalie, undressed, is in it... Billy is

seated on the edge of it... pants on, shirt off, pulling on

his boots. Suddenly, Hammond is pointing a gun at him...

Billy stands.

Billy looks at Hammond.  With lightning sudden quickness, he

reaches and produces a huge Bowie knife from behind his back.

Billy smiles, laughs...then with a sudden, awful roar, he

leaps at Hamnond who unflinchingly fires his pistol.  The big

slugs stop Billy cold and throw him back against the bed as

Rosalie shrieks.

INT. BACK BEDROOM

Ganz, half-dressed, asleep, gun in hand, throws himself off

the bed, pushes Sally out of the way ... opens the door and

starts firing furiously down the corridor... He grabs the

briefcase and runs to the window.

INT. CORRIDOR/DOOWAY TO BACK BEDROOM

Cates has ducked the bullets ... he is inching toward the

door...

He pulls it open...Ganz from the window fires another shot

which almost gets him then vanishes down the fire escape...

INT. BACK BEDROOM

Sally gets to her feett yelling, runs at Cates as he appears

and futilely tries to hit him....He throws her down on the

bed as if she were a doll ... He goes to the window...

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE

Ganz peels down the fire escapes hits the ground. He stops

for a second... Then Cates appears, Ganz fires a shot then

starts to run. Cates keeps coming...

INT. FIRST BEDROOM

Hammond hears the gunfire, runs out of the room...

CATES

Dives down the fire escape.

BATHROOM

Hammond enters to find it empty of Ganz and Cates, only Sally

crying hysterically ... He runs out.

EXT. CHINATOWN STREET

Ganz runs out the back alley ...Cates pursues...

ALLEY

Hammond runs down the stairs toward the front of the building.

EXT. STREET

Ganz runs, turns out of an alley onto a street baked with

neon light. Cates pursues.

EXT. FRONT OF CASEY'S BUILDING

Hammond runs out, turns down the adjoining street.

CATES

Following Ganz, holding him in sight, but unable to get a

shot off...

PARALLEL STREET

Hammond running down a street near the one where Ganz is

being chased...

MAIN STREET

Cates fires at Ganz ... Ganz ducks in a doorway...

HAMMOND

on his street hears the shot... he runs toward it, down a

narrow alley between two buildings....

EXT. DOORWAY AT END OF ALLEY

Ganz hears footsteps approach from the opposite direction of

Cates.  They move very close to where be is crouched... it is

Hammond coming toward him... Ganz suddenly rolls a garbage

can in his path, dropping him like a stone.

CATES

Comes toward where he expects to find Ganz... Ganz has his

arm around Hammond's throat and his gun to his ear...

Hammond drops his gun.

EXT.  MAIN STREET

Cates comes out of the doorway from which he's fired...and

comes into the middle of the street, gun up ... he puts it

down when he sees Ganz with Hammond in jeopardy.  The hand

that's around Hammond's throat also holds the black bag.

Cates walks forward, his gun down at his side...

Cates still walking...

They are now closer to each other. Ganz holding Hammond and

the money...

Cates keeps the same methodical pace...

Suddenly, he crouches and fires twice. Hammond twists as Ganz

also fires. Ganz is hit in the collarbone and driven ten feet

backward. His grip on Hammond drops, Hammond dives to the

ground, looks at Cates.

Ganz' gun still in his hand, but his arm useless at his side.

Cates is frozen in the crouch, ready to fire again.

Ganz is in enormous pain holding his bleeding chest... A look

of childish disbelief passes over his face.

He runs at Cates full-speed, screaming, roaring, then is

stopped by two more bullets that tear fist-sized holes in his

chest. Cates rises from his crouch. Takes his gun out of

Ganz' now lifeless hand. Then goes over to Hammond...

Cates raises the pistol.

Pause.

Hammond smiles.

Cates smiles back, picks up the black bag as they move off.

TRANSITION.

ELAINE'S BATHROOM

Cates in the tub, steam rushing from the water.

Elaine sits on the porcelain edge as he splashes and soaps...

He reaches out, lifts his watch from his pile of clothes on

the floor.

Elaine smiles, leans close.

TRANSITION.

CANDY'S ROOM - NIGHT

Minimal crummy hotel room accommodations... Hammond is

kissing her at the door, finishing buttoning all his buttons.

He reaches for a wallet, gives her several bills.

They kiss... it's pretty romantic... She opens the door for

him.

CORRIDOR

She stands at the top of the stairs; as Hammond walks down,

he calls back to her over his shoulder ...

He gives her a big sniile.

He moves off, still smiling, holding the black briefcase...

STREET - NIGHT

on a picturesque hill above the Haight. Cates standing near

the wheel of Hammond's Porsche.  Hammond comes down the porch

steps from the hotel.

Cates holds up the black briefcase.

Cates takes the case to the trunk, opens it, deposits the

case, locks the trunk.

Another long exchange of looks. Then be hands Hammond the

keys to the trunk.

Cates gives him a very skeptical look, as they head for the

car.

Hammond gets in behind the wheel, Cates on the passenger side.

Cates takes out a cigarette, starts to light it.

Hammond takes the match does it for him.

They both smile. Hammond socks it into gear and they drive

off into the far distance...

