ARCTIC BLUE

by Ross LaManna

FADE IN:

1	EXT.  BOREAL FOREST - ALASKA - (AERIAL SHOT) - DAY

Flying.  Not at the intangible height of a jet, but at

spitting distance from the treetops.  We're in central

Alaska, the Big Lonely, just north of the Arctic Circle.

A thick forest follows the contours of mountain foothills

like a deep-pile carpet.  Up at treeline the forest thins to

tundra, a grassy scruff turning red and yellow with the

coming of autumn.

On the horizon, the hills rise to meet the Endicott

Mountains, a great fortress wall of granite so sharp and

jagged that snow cannot stick to its face.  This is how all

North America once looked -- raw, indomitable.

Then, abruptly coming into the SCENE is a colossal etching

across the landscape too deliberate to be of natural origin.

Bisecting this country like a metallic ribbon -- or a scar,

depending on your point of view -- is the 800-mile-long

Trans-Alaskan Pipeline.

Even the immensity of the pipeline is rendered insignificant

by the vastness of the land.  It goes on, and on, and on...

DISSOLVE TO:

A lone MAN walks along the Haul Road, a one-lane gravel

trail running parallel to the pipeline.  The weather turns

sour -- rough wind and stinging snow cut across the man's

path.

DISSOLVE TO:

The man is ERIC DESMOND, twenty-four, clean-shaven,

determined.  He's clearly out of place here, dressed in a

business suit and a light, camel-hair topcoat.

Eric is trying to follow some footprints in the snow -- a

predator's tracks, those of a wolf or coyote.  But the

footprints ahead have faded, covered by the snow and wind.

DISSOLVE TO:

The weather becomes more oppressive.  Heavy snow, gale winds

and sub-zero temperatures make his progress tortuous.  Eric

strives stubbornly forward.

1	CONTINUED:

DISSOLVE TO:

Eric has gathered some branches.  He tries to make a fire.

Moisture from his breath has frozen in the upturned collar

of his insufficient coat, and his skin is split raw from the

cold.

His hands are too numb to hold the matches.  After several

attempts at striking one, he slumps down next to the pile of

wood, exhausted and frustrated.

DISSOLVE TO:

The snow has covered the pile of branches.  Eric still sits

next to it, partially covered in snow himself.

ERIC

His face is a death mask: eyes half-open and dull, lips a

purplish blue, bloodless skin crystallizing as it ices over.

The wind HOWLS around him.  The snow sticks to his eyelashes

and hair without melting.

2	INT.  DARK BEDROOM - NIGHT

Eric bolts up in bed.  Next to him, ANNE MARIE GAUVIN sits

up and hugs him.  All that can be seen of her in the dark is

a lovely silhouette and a cascade of dark hair.  After a

moment, Eric kisses her.  He shakes off the dream and lies

back down.

3	EXT.  HAUL ROAD AND PIPELINE - CLOSE - DAY

A metal sign, peppered with shotgun holes, is posted near a

pipeline support piling:

WIDER

Eric walks quietly past the sign, intent on something ahead

of him.  Although still somewhat boyish in appearance, he's

confident and resolute in attitude.  His clothes have a

distinctly western feel: Lucchese boots, Levis 501's, Mahan

cotton shirt.  His down parka is unzipped in the sunny,

windless, forty-degree afternoon.

3	CONTINUED:

He pauses, then brings to his shoulder a rifle with a

four-power scope mounted atop it.  He peers through the

scope.

HIS POV - THROUGH SCOPE

He puts the crosshairs on the shoulder flank of a big,

ivory-white timber wolf, fifty yards away.

BACK TO SCENE

Anne Marie stands beside Eric, a Nikon with a telephoto lens

in her hand, holding her breath in anticipation.  She's

twenty-three, pretty, with soft features and piercing blue

eyes.  She wears Eddie Bauer woman's gear like she was born

in it.

Eric expertly fixes his aim and slowly squeezes the trigger.

But instead of a loud retort, there is only the dull POP of

a CO2-powered dart gun.

NEW ANGLE

The tranquilizer dart finds its mark in the wolf's fleshy

shoulder.  The wolf takes off running, but almost

immediately slows, sits, then lies down.

Eric and Anne Marie hurry over to the wolf, who is breathing

deeply.  Eric kneels next to him and strokes his thick fur.

Anne Marie passes to Eric a tiny, weatherproof homing device

attached to a steel collar band.  Eric puts the collar

loosely around the wolf's neck and crimps it in place, all

the while TALKING soothingly to the semi-conscious animal.

Anne Marie smiles at Eric's tenderness and snaps some

photos.

With the collar in place and transmitter activated, Eric

backs away while the wolf tries to rouse itself from its

narcosis.

3	CONTINUED:  (2)

FOLLOW ANNE MARIE

as she hurries back to their International Scout.  On the

door of the Scout is a stylized logo of an oil derrick,

under which are the words:

Anne Marie opens the hatchback and grabs a video camera.

ANGLE ON ERIC AND THE WOLF

Eric smiles as the wolf wobbles tentatively to his feet and

trots unsteadily away.  Near the treeline the wolf turns,

glances back at Eric and then disappears into the forest.

NEW ANGLE

Anne Marie is taping the wolf's retreat.  Looking through

the viewfinder, she crosses a gully between a pipeline

piling and a rock formation.  Eric turns toward her and a

glint of light in the debris at her feet catches his eye.

She glances down.  Something metal is half-buried in the

dead leaves and gravel.

Eric runs over.  He pokes at the object with a stick.  With

a SNAP, a steel leg trap chomps the stick in half.  Anne

Marie jumps back.  Eric brushes the dead leaves on the

ground behind her and she carefully backtracks out of the

gully.

He angrily rips the trap out of the ground, unearthing

several others attached to one another by a long chain.

Eric slips the scope off the dart rifle and climbs up the

pipeline on foot pegs to the top of an anchoring poINT.

3	CONTINUED:  (3)

Using the scope as a telescope, he scans up and down the

Haul Road.

HIS POV - THROUGH SCOPE

The road and the pipeline stretch toward either horizon,

north and south.  In the distance, a jeep is parked on the

Haul Road.  Near it, a Man climbs down into another shallow

ravine.

BACK TO SCENE

Eric hurries down the footpegs.

He jumps into the Scout.  Anne Marie stuffs her cameras into

the hatchback.  As soon as she climbs in, Eric tears out.

4	INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

It races along the dusty gravel road at 60 MPH.

5	EXT.  HAUL ROAD

Startled at the APPROACH of the Scout, the Trapper uproots

his traps and runs out of the ravine.  He WHISTLES and

another Trapper appears nearby.

6	INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP

They pile into their dilapidated, all-terrain jeep.  It's

oddly well-equipped, however.  Bolted to the dashboard is an

expensive tape player and a beat-up radio beacon receiver

with a round locating screen.  They zoom off.

7	INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

Eric stomps on the gas.  The dust from the jeep obscures his

view but he's gaining on them anyway.  Anne Marie hangs on

and squints her eyes against the choking dust.

8	INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - (MOVING SHOT)

The driver is LEMALLE (35), a tall, ugly, rawboned Canadian.

His entire outfit is made of animal hide.  He has long red

hair, and a reptilian face usually twisted into a sadistic

sneer.  While driving, he scans along the pipeline.

In the passenger seat, MITCHELL (38), chews tobacco and

looks grim.  He's a squat, flat-faced Okie, with curly

matted hair and tired grey eyes.  He's dressed in a brown

long coat and has a Colt .45 Peacemaker in a quick-draw

holster strapped to his leg.  Despite his intimidating air,

confrontation is not his style.

He spots a figure up ahead, where the road crosses a muddy

creek.

9	EXT.  HAUL ROAD

Turning sharply, the trappers' jeep splashes through the

creek bed without slowing.  Bouncing, it comes down hard

against the axle-deep bank at the creek's high water mark.

LeMalle tries to back out, but can't find traction in the

mud.

Eric stops the Scout thirty yards behind them.

10   INT.  SCOUT

Eric opens his door.  To Anne Marie:

Eric reaches in the back seat and hands something to Anne

Marie.

11   EXT.  HAUL ROAD

Eric confidently approaches the jeep.

11   CONTINUED:

Then, a third trapper climbs from the creek.  He's got a

line of traps slung around his neck and a world of

experience on his face.  He's BEN CORBETT, a life-long

huntsman, somewhere past forty, weathered beyond his years.

He has a feral nose, thick beard and dark, smart, hunter's

eyes.  He wears a hooded cotton sweat shirt, cotton

coveralls and vapor-barrier mountain boots.  On his belt is

a holster rig cradling a .44 magnum revolver.

Eric slows down.  He didn't expect to face anyone as

formidable as Corbett.

12   INT. / EXT. JEEP

Emboldened by Corbett's presence, LeMalle reaches into the

back seat and grabs his 6.5 by 55 Swedish military carbine.

Corbett has an incongruously affable voice.  He throws his

traps into the jeep, then strides closer toward Eric.

13   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - CREEK CROSSING - LONG SHOT

As Corbett comes closer, Eric realizes this might not've

been a great idea.  Corbett squints his eyes and sniffs the

air, as if by this he can gauge his opponent's mettle.

Corbett just smiles.

13   CONTINUED:

But LeMalle, rankled, sticks the carbine out the jeep

window.

Seeing the rifle pointed at him, Eric freezes, then slowly

unzips his parka.

Corbett doesn't answer.  Then, his eyes narrow and he looks

past Eric at the Scout.

CORBETT'S POV

The passenger in the Scout sticks what looks like another

rifle out the window.

BACK TO SCENE

Eric quickly glances over his shoulder to make sure Anne

Marie's backing him up.

After a long moment, Corbett smiles again, then turns away

from Eric.  He motions LeMalle to the front of the jeep.

Frustrated, LeMalle slams back the safety on the carbine and

throws it in the back seat.

ANGLE ON TRAPPERS

Mitchell climbs into the jeep and starts the engine.

LeMalle and Corbett rock the jeep back and forth in the rut.

While pushing, Corbett rips the sole of his boot on a sharp

piece of granite.   He cusses and pushes harder.

14   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - CREEK CROSSING

Eric walks back to the Scout.  He feels the trappers' eyes

on his back, but forces himself not to hurry.

The trappers free their vehicle.  Corbett gets in the

driver's seat, and they take off.

15   INT.  SCOUT

Anne Marie's hands are shaking as she pulls the plastic

tranquilizer rifle back in the window.

15   CONTINUED:

16   EXT.  BOREAL FOREST - LATER THAT DAY

The trappers have left the flatlands of the Haul Road area.

Now their jeep climbs a pathway over the rolling foothills.

17   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - (MOVING SHOT)

Corbett broods while driving.  Mitchell looks out the

window.  The silence makes LeMalle uncomfortable.

18   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP

A brand-new Land Rover is parked on an alluvial fan in a

bend in a small river.  Scattered about is an assortment of

expensive camping gear, beer cans, spent shells and other

garbage.

Three toy-macho, vacationing SPORTSMEN are guzzling beer and

BLASTING fish in the shallow river with 12-gauge shotguns.

They look up and glower suspiciously as the jeep slows and

stops.

19   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP

LeMalle grabs his carbine.

19   CONTINUED:

20   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP

Corbett gets out of the jeep.  He regards the Sportsmen,

their shotguns and their mess with ill-concealed contempt.

The Sportsmen clutch their weapons and watch Corbett.  He

walks around the camp, spotting a rubber-lined rucksack

stuffed with dead ermine.  After a long, tense moment,

Corbett smiles.

He crouches next to the dead animals and strokes the fur.

LeMalle amuses himself by pissing in their campfire.  No one

notices that in the b.g., quiet Sportsman #3 unzips his

parka, exposing a .45 Peacemaker in a belt holster.

20   CONTINUED:

Corbett swings the rucksack of carcasses onto the hood of

the Land Rover.  Pissed, Sportsmen #1 and #2 step closer to

him.

LeMalle pulls a hunting knife and holds up one of the

ermine.

Corbett chuckles and Mitchell spits.

WIDER

LeMalle digs through the camping goodies in the back of the

Land Rover, many still in their packages.  He helps himself

to some sandwiches and a 12-pack of beer.

Corbett looks down to fasten the top of the rucksack.

20   CONTINUED:  (2)

NEW ANGLE

Suddenly, Sportsman #3 reaches inside his parka and pulls

the pistol.  He swings it toward LeMalle.

LeMalle looks up when he hears the HAMMER cock.

There is a deafeningly loud SHOT.

Sportsman #3 falls down dead at LeMalle's feet.

Off to one side, Corbett holds a huge, smoking .44 magnum

six-shooter in his hand.

Shotgun in hand, Sportsman #1 gauges his chances of blasting

Corbett.  Nil.  When Corbett turns to him, he lies the

weapon down.  Sportsman #2 rushes to his friend.

Looking bleak, Mitchell spits again.  Corbett crosses to

LeMalle and knocks from his hands the things he wanted to

steal.  Chastised, LeMalle smolders.  After a moment:

As Corbett walks to the jeep, he's too angry to notice that

he's stepped in a patch of mud under the Land Rover.

Near the jeep, LeMalle stops and pulls them into a huddle.

Corbett turns and FIRES two rounds from his .44 into the

engine of the Land Rover.  The Sportsmen stare and sputter.

20   CONTINUED:  (3)

Corbett and Mitchell get in their jeep.

LEMALLE

isn't yet satisfied.  He walks back over to the Sportsmen,

kneeling beside their fallen friend, and crouches right

beside them.  Intimidated, Sportsman #2 looks away, but

LeMalle grabs his chin and turns his face back toward him.

He unsheathes his buck knife.  BELOW FRAME, he slices across

the forehead of the dead Sportsman, peels back his scalp and

cuts it loose, Indian-style.  The Sportsmen are stunned and

sickened.

ANGLE ON TRAPPERS' JEEP

Corbett looks at Mitchell and wearily shakes his head.

21   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DUSK

Devil's Cauldron Hot Springs is a cluster of twenty tiny

dwellings connected by an unpainted boardwalk.  The town

squats, ugly and temporary-looking, in a dirt clearing fifty

miles north of the Arctic Circle.  Thirty miles east of the

Pipeline, it's almost dead center of interior Alaska.

At the edge of town is a gravel airstrip.  Mixed with the

prospector-era sod-roof cabins are a few prefabricated

houses.  The boon brought by men building the pipeline is

long gone.  Now only a few itinerant loggers, natives and

bush dwellers remain to fight boredom, each other and the

depression of the oncoming winter.

Enough steam escapes from the hot springs to perpetually

blanket the valley with fog.  The spa is log-walled and

horseshoe- shaped, with partitioned baths inside.  Facing it

21   CONTINUED:

are a mud-walled fire bath, a wooden steam bath called a

Maqi, six one-room cabins for let, and an unused dance hall.

LEO MEYERLING opens the tailgate of a Dodge truck with the

Northland Petroleum logo and "District Supervisor" on the

door.  Meyerling is short and bald with a completely

disreputable face.  He staples a poster on a wall.  It has a

picture of him on it, and:

22   EXT.  KENAI'S GENERAL STORE

Corbett and the other trappers drive past Meyerling and park

their jeep as the sun disappears behind the foothills.

23   INT.  KENAI'S GENERAL STORE

A handwritten public notice next to a schedule of church

meetings reads: "Live each day so you can look every damn

man in the eye and tell him to go to hell."  There is a post

office in the corner with some combination boxes and a

wicketless window.

The trappers come in.  Corbett sits in a chair and pulls his

boots off.  One of his wool socks is wet.  He nods to the

man sitting in the other chair, SAM WILDER.  Wilder is short

and tough, with a full head of crewcut grey hair and

weather- ravaged face that makes him look older than his

sixty years.

A chubby Inupiat (interior Eskimo), wearing thick glasses,

several heavy sweaters and battery-heated socks, fusses

behind the counter.  He's EARL KENAI, owner of the hot

springs spa and the general store.

LeMalle chews on a handful of bear jerky.  Kenai stares at

LeMalle until he begrudgingly pays for the jerky.  Corbett

pulls on some sneakers and hands his boots to Kenai.

23   CONTINUED:

Kenai nods agreeably and holds his hand out.  Corbett pays

him.  Meyerling comes in and posts some fliers on the

corkboard.

Meyerling smiles like a toad, then slaps another poster on

the wall.  LeMalle throws his knife and it STICKS in the

poster between Meyerling's spread fingers.  Meyerling jumps

back and the trappers laugh.  Meyerling looks to Wilder for

support.

23   CONTINUED:  (2)

24   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON VALLEY - LONG SHOT - NIGHT

An early STORM has blown in from the north, bringing

whipping winds and freezing rain.

25   INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Corbett peers out the tiny window, frowning.  LeMalle cleans

his carbine while eating beans and bacon.  Mitchell hunches

over a table.  He's making a scrimshaw -- delicately

engraving, using homemade tools, on a palm-sized piece of

whale bone.  He rubs his eyes and looks up at Corbett.

25   CONTINUED:

Mitchell glances at LeMalle, then at Corbett.

26   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - "THE TURTLE" - DAY

The winds have died down.  The rain has turned to a light

snow.

A mobile arctic dwelling sits on a rise next to the Haul

Road.  It's a double-unit weathertight cocoon of fiberglass

and aluminum, pulled by a diesel rig on oversized tires.

The front module is 12 by 24, the rear 12 by 18.

An extended-cab pickup pulls up and Sam Wilder gets out.

The gravel-and-dirt Haul Road, paralleling the pipeline for

400 miles, is closed to the public.  An arriving vehicle,

therefore, is news.  The front door of the dwelling opens.

Eric and Anne Marie come outside, delighted to see Wilder.

26   CONTINUED:

Anne Marie shoots a look at Eric but doesn't disagree --

this is obviously an issue with them.  Wilder looks with

amusement at the mobile dwelling.

26   CONTINUED:  (2)

Looking past Wilder, Eric points out some smoke on the

horizon.

27   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP - LATER THAT DAY

Everything seems peaceful enough.  The SOS fire (made from

burning green branches for white smoke and rubber for black

smoke) has burnt down to embers.

Eric, Anne Marie and Wilder pull up in Wilder's pickup.

The two Sportsmen sit in the front seat of the Land Rover,

but they don't react to the arrival of the rescuers.  In the

back seat, a reflective camping blanket covers a large mass.

Something is amiss.  Eric shoots a look of trepidation at

Anne Marie as they get out of the pickup.   Wilder pulls the

door of the Land Rover open.

A Sportsman slumps out onto the ground.  His eyes are open

and his tongue pokes out between his lips.  His skin is

blue-white. (He looks, in fact, much like Eric's nightmare.)

Startled, Eric steps back.  Anne Marie gasps with horror.

Wilder unzips the Sportsman's light windbreaker and listens

for a heartbeat.  Nothing.

Eric stares at the dead Sportsmen.

27   CONTINUED:

Wilder tries the ignition.  The starter TURNS OVER, but the

engine makes a horrendous GRINDING.  He walks to the front

of the vehicle.  Noticing the bullet holes in the grille, he

bends down for a closer look.

NEW ANGLE

Eric opens the rear hatchback and digs through the plentiful

supplies.  Still in their packages are some matchbox-sized

ELT locating beacons.

CLOSE

Anne Marie opens the back door of the Land Rover.  She pulls

back the camping blanket... and uncovers the third

Sportsman.  The torn red flesh on his head and his

bugged-out eyes are a hideous sight.

Anne Marie SCREAMS and stumbles away.

28   EXT.  SPORTSMEN'S CAMP - LAND ROVER

Eric runs over to her as she tries to catch her breath.

Wilder looks at the third Sportsman and angrily kicks the

side of the Land Rover.

Sourly, Wilder points to a patch of frozen mud under the

vehicle.

28   CONTINUED:

Wilder examines the Sportsman, finding the bullet hole in

his chest.

Wilder leans against the Land Rover, feeling tired.

Eric looks hard at the dead Sportsmen.

29   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AFTERNOON

The town is quiet.

30   INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Corbett soaks in one of the huge wooden tubs with a pudgy

Inupiat hooker, DIXIE.

He looks up as Eric comes into the spa.  Eric holds

Corbett's boots, which have been repaired.  Eric pauses when

he sees Corbett.  There is a flash of recognition between

them.

Eric glances down at Corbett's duffel bag, which sits on the

floor next to Corbett's tub.  Corbett's magnum rests on top

of it, well within reach.  Corbett notices Eric's interest

in it.  He leans back and smiles.

Putting his hand on Dixie's shoulder, Corbett stands and

gets out of the tub.  His sinewy body, resembling a

scarecrow made of steel cable, is covered with scars.  He

wraps a towel around his waist and crosses to Eric.

30   CONTINUED:

Corbett grabs his boots from Eric and finds himself facing a

revolver, which Eric has been hiding inside one of the

boots.

NEW ANGLE

Wilder has come in the back way and stands behind Corbett

with a 12-gauge shotgun.  He kicks Corbett's magnum out of

reach.

Corbett shakes his head but remains implacable.

31   EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Eric comes outside.  Earl Kenai, overdressed for the weather

in gloves, mukluks and a full-length sealskin coat, stands

31   CONTINUED:

shivering by a woodshed near the hot springs, hacksawing a

piece of meat from a frozen moose carcass.

Wilder comes out of the spa with his shotgun and Corbett's

duffel bag cradled in his arm.  Handcuffed, Corbett walks in

front of him.

Kenai looks down to avoid eye contact with Corbett as he

goes by.  Corbett stops next to Eric and smiles.

32   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - FOLLOW WILDER

as he leads Corbett along the boardwalk to the other end of

town.  They approach a prefab house perched on skids under a

tall antenna tower.  Mounted above the shack, a DC wind

charger turbine spins lazily in the faint breeze.  From

within the cabin comes an anomalous SOUND -- MTV.  Wilder

KNOCKS on the door.

ARTHUR NEFF, a pasty-white, 45-year-old ex-Texan, pulls the

door open.  His customary grin fades when he sees Corbett.

33   INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE

Wilder pushes Corbett inside past Neff.

Neff just stares at Corbett.

With a "what can I do but oblige?" look to Corbett, Neff

sits in front of the RCA Alascom radio telephone and dials.

33   CONTINUED:

After a moment, he hands the receiver to Wilder.  Wilder

takes it, keeping one eye and the shotgun on Corbett.

Angry, Wilder slams the receiver down.

34   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

In one room, there is a wood-burning cookstove and an Ashley

heat stove, a table, a bunk and a small window.  Behind a

cloth partition is an eight by six holding cell.  The frame

of an iron-bar door is securely cemented to the log walls.

Wilder comes in with Corbett and locks him in the cell.

34   CONTINUED:

Wilder does mind.  He locks the duffel bag and Corbett's .44

in his desk drawer.

35   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AFTERNOON

As Eric walks into Kenai's general store, Neff hurries over.

He hands Eric a piece of styrofoam shaped like a commode

seat.

35   CONTINUED:

36   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT

The storm has passed.   A faint CHUGGING emanates from the

small orange generator trailer behind the Turtle.  Eric

pulls up and parks the Scout.

37   INT.  THE TURTLE

Nylon storage netting along the ceiling holds Eric's

research equipment and Anne Marie's photographic supplies.

In one corner of the Turtle are several of her black and

white prints.  All are of man-made objects whose presence is

juxtaposed with the natural surroundings.

Relieved he's home in one piece, Anne Marie meets Eric at

the door and kisses him.  Carrying a brown-paper-wrapped

package, Eric follows her into the kitchen, where she's

preparing dinner.

37   CONTINUED:

Perplexed, she looks at the return address --

Bloomingdale's.  Delighted, she tears it open.  Inside is a

pretty, elegant dress.  Anne Marie kisses him.

38   EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NIGHT

An old primer-grey station wagon rattles into town and

parks.  With an unlit cheroot stuck in his mouth, "VIKING"

BOB CORBETT gets out and stretches.  He's 38, six-foot-six,

with sandy hair, beard, ruddy skin, and his brother's dark

eyes.

He looks around for some sign of life.  He spots Neff

tending one of the windmills and walks over to him.

As Viking Bob walks back to his station wagon, he notices

Kenai poking around in front of Wilder's cabin.

VIKING BOB'S POV

Illuminated by a bare bulb is Wilder's typical bush-country

front yard.  Piled are five cords of wood, boxes, tarps,

stove parts, saw horses, 55-gallon drums, dismantled snow

machines, wash tubs, tires, etc.

Bunching his collar around his neck, Kenai shivers and sorts

through Corbett's traps.

NEW ANGLE

Viking Bob ambles over to Kenai.

39   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

Wilder peers out the window and sees Viking Bob, then turns

to Corbett.

39   CONTINUED:

Wilder handcuffs Corbett's hands to the cell door bars, then

quickly wraps a piece of duct tape across Corbett's face,

covering his mouth.

Stuffing a .357 magnum in his belt, Wilder, coatless, slips

outside.

As soon as he's out the door, Corbett cranes his neck and

painfully tries to pry the tape off his face with the corner

of the door hinge.

40   EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN

The look on Wilder's face tells Kenai to shut up.  Viking

Bob realizes something's up.

41   INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

Corbett gets the tape partially off his mouth.  He pries one

of his boots off and kicks it through a window.

42   EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN

Wilder pulls his .357 out.

Viking Bob responds by flinging a heavy trap at Wilder, then

punching him in the gut.  Wilder sprawls among the junk,

dropping his revolver.  Kenai freezes, not about to take

sides.

Before Viking Bob can come at him again, Wilder grabs for

his .357. Viking Bob jumps back and bolts for his car.

42   CONTINUED:

He dives into his station wagon and starts it up.  As he

drives past, Wilder POPS off a few rounds, but Viking Bob

keeps going.

NEW ANGLE

Kenai helps Wilder up.  Pissed, Wilder shoves him against

the cabin.

43   INT.  THE TURTLE - NIGHT

Anne Marie sits on the floor, editing one of her VIDEOTAPES.

On the monitor, it SHOWS footage of the traps under the

pipeline piling.  Eric comes out of the back module holding

two ELT pendants.  He glances over at the monitor and nods

approvingly.

Eric activates the ELT's.  They emit an SOS pattern of radio

waves -- three short, three long and three short.  This is

visible as rhythmic INTERFERENCE on Anne Marie's video

MONITOR.

43   CONTINUED:

She turns on a small S-VHS video camera and snaps off the

room lights.

She does so by seductively undressing for the camera.  She's

SEEN on the MONITOR, illuminated by the "light" from the hot

stove.  Eric appreciates the show.  He crawls toward her.

Laughing, he wrestles her to the rug.

44   EXT.  HILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NIGHT

There is a full moon and a clear night sky.  Viking Bob's

station wagon is parked out of sight.  He sits inside,

waiting.

He hears an ENGINE starting in the distance.  Sitting up, he

grabs some binoculars.

HIS POV

Wilder's extended cab truck pulls out, heading west.

45   EXT.  FOOTHILLS - NIGHT

In the bright moonlight, two people are seen in Wilder's

truck as it speeds along a dirt road.

Viking Bob follows at a discreet distance, headlights off.

45   CONTINUED:

NEW ANGLE

Viking Bob turns and takes the literal high road -- a narrow

trail above the roadway that Wilder's truck is on.

He zooms ahead and gets in front of his quarry, then drops

back down onto the road and waits in ambush.

As Wilder's truck approaches, Viking Bob turns on his bright

lights and crouches behind his car door with a shotgun.

Wilder's truck screeches to a stop.

CLOSER

Kenai gets out with his hands up.

Viking Bob slowly approaches Wilder's truck.

No answer.  Viking Bob looks in the cab.  Kenai's passenger

is Dixie, the Inupiat hooker.  Viking Bob grabs Kenai and

pushes the barrel of the shotgun hard against his cheek.

Viking Bob shoves Kenai against the truck, then punches him

for good measure.  Cussing, he runs back to his station

wagon and drives off.

46   INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE - NIGHT

Eric and Anne Marie are asleep.  Eric starts awake at the OS

sound of a high-pitched vehicle HORN and an approaching

ENGINE.

47   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE

Eric pulls the door open.  Wilder is untying Corbett from

the snowmobile.

Corbett smiles at Eric as he walks inside.

48   INT.  THE TURTLE

Eric, Wilder and Corbett sit in the front module.  Anne

Marie, nervous, wearing a down robe, serves coffee.  She

stares at Corbett, trying to reconcile his quiet demeanor

with what she saw that afternoon.  Corbett smiles at Eric.

48   CONTINUED:

Eric takes Anne Marie to the rear module, leaving Wilder

with his prisoner.

49   INT.  THE TURTLE - LATER THAT NIGHT

A bottle of Eric's Scotch sits almost empty on the table

beside Wilder.  Wilder dozes in a chair facing Corbett.

Corbett is awake.  He contorts his body to bring his

handcuff chain under his feet and get his hands in front of

him.  He eyes Wilder's .357.  It's in a lefty Sam Browne

holster.  No way to take it without waking Wilder.

Corbett stands and inches toward the door.  As he pulls it

open, the insulation makes enough NOISE to stir Wilder.

Wilder gets up and pushes Corbett back into his chair.

Wilder's mind clears enough to realize that Corbett's hands

are in front of him.  He reaches for his .357.  Corbett

butts into Wilder's midsection with his head.  Amazingly,

Wilder stays on his feet.

Corbett hurries back to the door.  Wilder lunges,

bull-determined to hold onto him.  Corbett smashes Wilder

across the face with his clenched hands.  Wilder goes down

hard, hitting his head on the table, and stays there.

Corbett instinctively kneels to see if Wilder is still

breathing.  But then, hearing MOVEMENT in the rear module,

Corbett flees.

50   INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE

Eric is pulling on his pants.

51   INT.  THE TURTLE - FRONT MODULE

Eric rushes in.  The outside door is open and Wilder lies on

the floor.   His holster is empty.  Anne Marie comes in and

crosses to Wilder.

Eric pulls a floor trap door open and digs through the

company-issue equipment, coming up with a huge Remington

bolt-action bear rifle.  Unfamiliar with weapons, Eric tears

open a box of shells and fumbles to load the rifle.

52   EXT.  THE TURTLE

Corbett is trying to start Eric's Scout.

Eric fires a loud warning SHOT from the Turtle doorway.

Corbett sits in the Scout for a long moment, weighing his

odds.  He takes his hands off the steering wheel...

Eric SHOOTS again, this time SMASHING the side-view mirror

and window next to Corbett's head.

Still handcuffed, Corbett gets out of the Scout.  Holding

the .357 gingerly by the butt, he puts it on the hood of the

Scout.

53   INT.  THE TURTLE

Eric leads Corbett in.  Anne Marie is cradling Wilder's

head. She's crying.  Eric looks at Wilder.  There is blood

coming from his ear and he's fading fast.

Eric nods again.  Wilder holds his gaze on Eric, then simply

stops breathing.

53   CONTINUED:

Eric is stunned.  Quietly, Corbett sits down.  Clutching the

rifle, Eric sits on the floor and glares at Corbett.

Corbett's benign attitude is chilling.

He turns the shortwave radio on.  It SPARKS and burns out.

The remainder of the liquor has been poured inside it.

Covering Corbett with the rifle, Eric handcuffs him to the

sturdy metal bracket of a wall unit.

54   EXT.  CACHE, ALASKA - (MOVING SHOT) - NIGHT

Viking Bob approaches in his station wagon on a narrow dirt

road.  The huge night sky all but smothers the weak light

from the town up ahead.

Cache seems a mistake -- a jumble of unpainted buildings in

the middle of a big nothing, twenty miles north of the

Arctic Circle.  Still, it's more animated than Devil's

Cauldron.  There are a hundred permanent residents, several

taverns and a three-store, fly-in shopping center.

54   CONTINUED:

Even though it's the middle of the night, people roam the

streets, drinking and socializing.  With only a couple feet

of snow on the ground, this is still summertime.  Under

storefront awnings, drunken INDIANS sleep on the concrete.

Viking Bob cruises the main drag, looking for the other

trappers.  He spots their jeep in front of a

dangerous-looking saloon called the "Bear Sign Inn."

ANGLE WITH VIKING BOB

as he parks and gets out of his station wagon.  He hears a

familiar VOICE around the side of the building.

55   EXT.  CACHE - ALLEY

Drunk, LeMalle stands in an alley with a bored, acne-scarred

Oriental PROSTITUTE.  He weaves and leers, his hand stuck

inside her blouse.

Grumbling, Viking Bob separates LeMalle from the Prostitute

and drags him by the collar out of the alley.

56   INT.  BEAR SIGN INN - NIGHT

Meyerling's campaign posters cover the walls.  Many have

been pulled down and muddied underfoot by the drunken crowd.

In a booth covered with grafitti, Mitchell squints and works

on his scrimshaw.  LeMalle, somewhat sober, eats a plate of

muktuk -- whale blubber.  Viking Bob pours him more coffee.

56   CONTINUED:

57   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAWN

Wisps of light cut across the cold blue sky.

Eric comes out of the Turtle, leaving the front door ajar.

He throws a knapsack of supplies into the back of the Scout.

58   INT.  THE TURTLE

Corbett's right hand is still handcuffed to the wall unit.

Terrified about being alone with Corbett, Anne Marie

cautiously puts a cup of coffee in front of him.

58   CONTINUED:

Anne Marie doesn't want to talk to a killer, but Corbett is

so soft-spoken and charming that she answers despite

herself.

58   CONTINUED:  (2)

Anne Marie shudders.  Smiling good-naturedly, Corbett looks

around, spotting the package Anne Marie's new dress came in.

As she's talking, the Turtle ROCKS slightly.  She looks out

the tiny window.

HER POV - THROUGH WINDOW

Eric is putting Wilder's body inside an enclosed storage

compartment built flush into the side of the Turtle.

BACK TO SCENE

Horrified, Anne Marie turns away.

58   CONTINUED:  (3)

Eric comes in, none too thrilled about Anne Marie chatting

with Corbett.

He carefully stuffs Wilder's magnum in his belt and ignores

Anne Marie's disparaging look as he does.

59   INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE

Anne Marie leads Eric out of earshot from Corbett.  Eric

keeps a cautious eye on him.

Realizing he's determined, she sighs and kisses him.

60   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK - DAWN

Eric and Corbett drive toward the deserted pumping station.

They cross over a prefabricated steel portal bridge spanning

a fast-running creek.

61   INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

The wind whips through the shot-out wing window.  Corbett's

handcuffs are lashed to the seat frame with sturdy nylon

rope.

62   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

The pumping station consists of three corrugated steel

buildings.  The largest is an airplane hangar.

Just beyond the hangar is a narrow blacktop landing strip

running parallel to the Haul Road.

63   INT.  SCOUT - ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW - (MOVING SHOT)

Eric pulls up to the hangar.  Suddenly, LeMalle steps out

from behind the building.

64   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

LeMalle recognizes the International Scout.  He swings his

rifle up to stop it.

Eric slams it in reverse and SCREECHES back around the

hangar.

LeMalle FIRES as the Scout rounds the corner.  He hits a

fender, doing no damage.  Angry, he runs after the vehicle.

65   INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

Eric slams on the brakes and turns the Scout around.

Eric doesn't need any convincing of that.  He tears out.

66   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

Mitchell runs out in front of them and BLASTS the front of

the Scout with his .45 Peacemaker.  Steam HISSES out of the

radiator.  Eric floors it and races past Mitchell, almost

hitting him.

66   CONTINUED:

Mitchell and LeMalle SHOOT at the retreating vehicle.  One

of the Scout's back tires gets blown out.

67   INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

Eric slows, shifts into four-wheel drive and continues,

driving on the rim.

68   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

Chewing an unlit cheroot, Viking Bob pulls up next to

Mitchell and LeMalle in the trappers' jeep.  They pile in.

69   EXT.  HAUL ROAD

Eric backtracks as fast as possible in the crippled vehicle.

70   INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - THROUGH WINDSHIELD - (MOVING SHOT)

As the Scout heads for the Feldspar Creek bridge, it

disappears from sight over a hill.

71   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

Viking Bob zooms over Feldspar Creek.  They come over the

rise, but the Scout still can't be seen ahead of them.

REVERSE ANGLE

The Scout sits idling in a depression near the creek bed,

below the Haul Road.  Above, the trappers speed past without

noticing.

After giving the trappers time to get around the next bend,

Eric drives the Scout up the embankment and crosses back

over the bridge.

72   INT.  SCOUT

Eric stops the vehicle.  He grabs a five-gallon gas can and

a piece of cloth from the back.

73   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

The prefab bridge is the transportable type used by the Army

Corps of Engineers, left over from the building of the

pipeline.  Eric stuffs the gas can between the abutment and

the honeycombed underside of the bridge.  He puts the rag

inside the spout of the can, lights it with a match and runs

like hell back to the Scout.

74   EXT.  HAUL ROAD

The trappers realize their quarry is missing.  Viking Bob

slams on the brakes and looks around.

75   INT.  SCOUT - (MOVING SHOT)

Eric speeds away.

76   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

The gasoline can EXPLODES, tearing the bridge couplings away

from the concrete abutment.

77   EXT.  HAUL ROAD

The trappers see the explosion behind them.  They turn

around and head toward it.

78   EXT.  PUMPING STATION - HANGAR

Eric parks the Scout sideways to block the way to the

airstrip.

With the magnum at the ready, Eric cuts Corbett's handcuffs

loose from the seat and hurries him toward the hangar.

The leeward side of the structure is a huge metal door on

rollers.  Eric unlocks it and rolls it back.  Inside is a

Cessna 182, dusted with snow and ice blown through the

cracks by crosswinds.  Eric brushes the windshield with his

sleeve.

79   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

The trappers pull up and find the far side of the bridge

burning and disconnected from the creek bank.

80   INT.  HANGAR - CESSNA

Eric helps Corbett into the cockpit, then secures his

handcuffs to the frame of the seat with more nylon rope.

81   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

Viking Bob assesses the damage to the bridge.  Loose from

the abutments, it wobbles like a diving board.  Below, the

water is too deep and fast-moving to be traversable.

82   INT.  HANGAR - CESSNA

Eric tries to turn the ENGINE over.  The starter is sluggish

from cold and lack of use.

83   EXT.  HAUL ROAD & FELDSPAR CREEK

Viking Bob looks at the others, bursting with frustration.

He climbs into the driver's seat.

They hop in.  He SCREECHES backwards to get a running start,

REVS the engine, pops the clutch, and tears toward the

bridge.

As they reach the midpoint of the bridge it begins to buckle

under them.  With a sickening WRENCHING, the crossbar

supports crumple.

The jeep flies through the still-burning gasoline, becomes

airborne, and SCRAPES to a rude stop on the edge of the

pavement on the other side, the back wheels dangling in

space.

LeMalle and Mitchell gingerly get out and push the ass end

of the jeep onto solid earth.

84   INT.  HANGAR

Eric finally STARTS the plane and taxis out onto the landing

strip.

85   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

The trappers drive up to where the Scout blocks their path.

They pile out of their jeep and run toward the landing

strip.

86   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

It picks up speed and takes off.

ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW - (AERIAL SHOT)

Below, the trappers watch the plane zoom over their heads.

LeMalle points his carbine at it, but Viking Bob pushes the

rifle down.

87   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

Corbett scowls as he sees the trappers helpless below him.

88   EXT.  PUMPING STATION

Viking Bob watches, wide-eyed with fury.  Mitchell spits.

LeMalle punches the wall.  Then he turns and repeatedly

BLASTS the Scout, parked nearby, with his carbine.

89   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

Eric's knapsack, an emergency kit and several five-gallon

cans of aviation fuel are tucked behind the seats.

Eric retracts the landing gear and banks toward the

southwest.  Corbett notices that Eric seems a little unsure

of the controls.

Eric ignores the jibe.  He stays at 2,000 feet, making the

landscape all the more immediate.

Corbett stares out the window and broods.  He spots an open,

snow-covered area where some dark blotches mar the

whiteness.

89   CONTINUED:

ANOTHER ANGLE - (AERIAL SHOT)

While talking in an even tone, Corbett intently studies the

instrument panel and scans the landscape below.

Corbett spots a flat plateau farther in the mountains, above

the tree line.

Suddenly, he turns in the seat and pins Eric against the

door with his left foot.

The plane flies erratically.  With his right foot, Corbett

kicks the fuel jettison lever on the instrument panel,

jamming it on.

90   EXT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

The lever, used to empty the fuel tanks in case of

emergency, does so with great expediency.  All the gas is

instantly discharged.

91   INT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

Corbett releases Eric and calmly sits back up in his seat.

Eric rubs his neck, incredulous.  Corbett's move was too

fast and too outrageous.  In a moment, the engine SPUTTERS

to a stop.  Eric struggles to hold the stick steady and

glide the plane down to the plateau Corbett pointed out.

92   EXT.  CESSNA - (AERIAL SHOT)

There's an even chance of hitting a mountain instead of the

plateau.  Eric pushes the Cessna's nose down.  The plateau

comes up fast.

The plane drops lower and lower, pitching and yawing in the

wind.

It CRASH LANDS, its metal underbelly SCREECHING as it hits

the jagged granite under the snow.  It stops suddenly,

flipping tail over nose.

93   INT.  CESSNA

It rests upside down in the snow.  The men are dazed.

Behind Eric, one of the extra fuel cans, now hanging upside

down, leaks gas.  In front of him, the engine is ON FIRE.

Eric undoes his seat belt and rights himself, but his leg

gets caught in the tangled belt.  He pulls out a Swiss Army

knife and cuts the rope binding Corbett's handcuffs to the

seat.  Corbett pushes the passenger door open.  Panicking,

Eric tries to pull loose of his seat belt, painfully

wrenching his ankle.

94   EXT.  CESSNA

Corbett rolls out into the snow.  With no time to grab his

supplies, Eric clambers from the wreckage.  He and Corbett

crawl/roll down the incline of the plateau, away from the

plane.

A moment later the leaking gas reaches the burning engine

and the Cessna EXPLODES.

WIDER

Eric tries to stand.  He cries out and falls into the

powdery snow, clutching at his ankle.

94   CONTINUED:

Corbett realizes Eric is at a disadvantage.  But before he

can bolt, Eric grabs for the .357 magnum under his coat.  He

lies on the snow, gasping, pointing the gun at Corbett's

midsection.

Eric cocks the gun's hammer with his thumb.

The men face off for a tense moment.

Corbett smiles and zips up his jacket, dispelling the

tension.  Letting the hammer down, Eric looks back at the

burning plane.

Corbett drops his facade of conviviality.  Eric is too angry

to be intimidated.  He takes the scarf from around his neck

and wraps his ankle with it.

94   CONTINUED:  (2)

Eric holds his wristwatch up, points the hour hand at the

sun, counts forward to noon, and, accordingly, makes an

approximation of their direction.

Grimacing with pain, he gets up.  Clutching the magnum, he

shoves Corbett in front of him and starts walking.  Corbett

frowns -- it's tough to trudge through the snow with his

arms cuffed tightly behind his back.

Eric looks around and tries not to let his emotions register

on his face.  They wouldn't be farther from the rest of

humanity on another planet.  Smelling fear on Eric, Corbett

enjoys the view.  And waits.

95   EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - LATER THAT DAY

The Endicott range is full of jagged peaks, icy streams and

gnarled tundra valleys.  Squinting in the glare of the snow,

Eric and Corbett trek through the grandiose Gates of the

Arctic area.  The smoldering plane wreckage is a hard-won,

snow-covered mile behind them.

Intricate patterns of fragmented rock, strips of scruffy

tundra and bedrock outcrops produce lonely, foreboding

mosaics upon the landscape.  The air is still.  The silence

is itself a disconcerting presence.  Ten miles ahead and two

thousand feet lower, the forest begins.  But here, on the

rock face of the mountains, Eric and Corbett might as well

be in a desert.

95   CONTINUED:

Determined and dour, Eric pushes on.

It's all academic.  The sheer magnitude of the surroundings

makes them feel they're the only people in the world.

96   EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - DUSK

The sun drops behind the mountains.  A wind whips up,

chilling the men through their clothing.  Eric tries not to

shiver.  He spies a small rock formation with a granite

elbow protruding from it, making an enclosed triangle of

solid rock.

Corbett sits on his haunches and smiles while Eric digs near

the rocks.  Although he knows Corbett is testing his every

move, Eric refuses to let his patronizing air get to him.

Eric approaches him suspiciously.  He puts his hand down

through Corbett's collar.  Something is stowed inside a

homemade flap in the lining of his coat.  Eric pulls out a

96   CONTINUED:

folded nylon tarp with twine threaded through corner

eyeholes.  He shakes the eight by eight orange tarp open...

97   EXT.  NYLON SHELTER - EVENING

Eric and Corbett have stretched the tarp out tent-style next

to the granite rock formation, making a minimal but

functional refuge from the cold night.

98   INT.  NYLON SHELTER

The men huddle inside the tarp.  Eric keeps a wary eye on

Corbett -- at all times he treats him like a rattlesnake.

Eric unwraps his ankle and rubs it.  It's swollen to the

size of a softball.

While poking the .357 in Corbett's ribs, Eric one-handedly

unlocks Corbett's right manacle, pulls his arm through the

granite elbow, then locks it back up again.  He's learning.

99   EXT.  HAUL ROAD - DREAM  - (AS IN SCENE 3)

Eric is hurrying along the pipeline in his business suit,

following the predator's paw prints in the snow.  He peers

ahead and his prey becomes visible.  But it isn't a wolf,

it's Corbett.  His hands and face are covered in blood.

100  EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - DAWN

The sun peeks over the mountain tops, drenching them with

light and color.

101  INT.  NYLON SHELTER

The light hits Eric's eyes.  He bolts awake from a fitful

sleep.  Corbett sits, already awake, looking like he'd

uproot the rock to which he's chained if he could.  He waits

for an opportunity -- any opportunity -- with the patience

of a vulture.

102  EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - SMALL VALLEY - DAY

Eric and Corbett trudge up to the bank of a frozen stream

bisecting their path.  It's simple -- to continue, they have

to cross it.  Corbett takes in the scenery, in no particular

hurry.  Frustrated, but making dead sure he's always got the

drop on Corbett,  Eric puts a tentative foot on the ice.

Corbett is not about to be outdone in the guts department by

someone with a Master's Degree.

Frowning, Corbett tentatively steps onto the ice and inches

across the fifteen feet to the other bank.

NEW ANGLE

He turns and, indeed, Eric is right behind him.

102  CONTINUED:

Eric doesn't want to be too far from his prisoner.  He keeps

coming.  The ice GROANS and HISSES under their weight.

Corbett is three feet from solid ground.  He drops to his

knees, then stomach, and rolls like a log the rest of the

way.

Eric splays out on the ice and crabwalks across.  The ice

makes an ominous CRACKING and water begins to seep through

air holes.

Standing, Corbett weighs his chances of bolting from Eric.

Eric crawls doubletime.  He makes it onto solid ground just

as the ice under him breaks off in a big, thin, clear plate.

CLOSER

Eric sits on some rocks.  Corbett glares it him.

Eric is not convinced.   Grumbling, Corbett gets up and

takes the lead as they continue southward.

103  INT.  THE TURTLE - DARKROOM - DAY

Trying to keep busy, Anne Marie develops some prints in the

darkroom she's made from the front bathroom.  She glances at

her watch and sighs, her mind on Eric's overdue return.

104  INT.  THE TURTLE - FRONT MODULE

Anne Marie comes out of the darkroom and hangs the prints up

to dry.  Outside, (OS), a car HORN blares a couple of times.

Grinning, she runs to the door.

105  EXT. / INT.  THE TURTLE

Meyerling's Dodge truck pulls up.  Anne Marie comes outside.

Her smile wilts when she sees it's not Eric.  As Meyerling

climbs the embankment to the Turtle, he glances at Wilder's

snowmobile parked alongside the Turtle.

He pushes past Anne Marie and goes into the Turtle.

105  CONTINUED:

Anne Marie just glares at him.  Meyerling examines the

damaged shortwave.

Noting Anne Marie's distressed reaction to this news, he

crosses to the door.

106  EXT.  ENDICOTT MOUNTAINS - DAY

Eric limps further down from the mountains.  Corbett keeps

pace in front of him and his magnum.  As their altitude

decreases, there is ever thicker vegetation.

Their tracks in the snow stretch up behind them into the

distance.  The magnificence and grandeur of the surroundings

cannot be overstated.  Picture the most rustic, overwhelming

wilderness imaginable, and then make it ten times larger.

NEW ANGLE - LATER

The men's way is once again interrupted, this time by a

sheer granite drop. The steep decline would be tough to

negotiate with mountaineering equipment and proper footwear.

Corbett peers over the edge and shakes his head.

Eric realizes he's right.  After some deliberation, Eric

cautiously approaches him.  With the .357 cocked and ready,

he undoes one of the cuffs, leaving them hanging from

Corbett's wrist.  He then unthreads the nylon twine from

Corbett's tarp.

ANGLE - GRANITE SHEER

Eric and Corbett are tied, belt to belt, with the nylon

rope.  Corbett inches down first, feet spread for maximum

footing, gloveless hands grasping at anything.

Eric mimics Corbett's moves and follows the same path.

Unable to grasp the rocks effectively, he stops and takes

his gloves off.  Continuing, he winces -- the rock is cold

and sharp.  His hands are soon numb and bloody.  Even in the

dry, below-freezing air, Eric is sweating.

He looks down and hangs on more tightly.  Sliding to level

ground two hundred feet below would pummel him to hamburger.

Corbett pauses and rests his cheek against the rocks.  Eric

is right above him.

106  CONTINUED:

Suddenly, Corbett's foot slips.  His right hand

instinctively goes for a hold.  The dangling handcuffs snare

on a protuberance, knocking him off balance.

The fulcrum of Corbett's body leans out into the empty air.

Eric moves down a little, braces himself and extends his

leg, giving Corbett something to grab.  Corbett takes hold

of Eric's shoe and tries to teeter back against the rock

wall.  Adrenaline screams through Eric's system.

Corbett looks up at Eric.  A careless move will send them

both tumbling.  Eric clutches harder at the rocks and waits

for the worst.

After a long moment, Corbett regains his balance and lets go

of Eric's foot.  He continues his descent.  Eric lets out

his breath and tries to swallow.  His mouth is as dry as the

granite.

107  EXT.  TREELINE - LATER THAT DAY

Handcuffed again, Corbett hikes in front of Eric along the

top of some foothills.  Now and again he glances behind,

gauging Eric's weariness, waiting for a moment's

carelessness.  Around them there is heavy vegetation now --

snow-covered sedge tussocks, knee-deep muskeg and twisted

thickets that are treacherous and slow to tramp through.

Above them, ominous clouds and sharp, cold winds are coming

down from the north.

But below, a mile ahead, the edge of the forest is like the

hem of a great green garment stretching endlessly southward.

The combination of altitude and latitude creates an

amazingly sharp topographical dividing line.  Within a few

thousand yards, the landscape abruptly changes from scrub

brush to thick coniferous forest.

Then, Corbett pauses as a walloping sound ECHOES across the

foothills.

Just ahead, two enormous bull moose are fighting.  They ram

each other with six-foot-wide antlers.

Corbett stares, transfixed, admiring.

107  CONTINUED:

Eric turns, surprised at Corbett's unabashed awe.

Catching the men's smell the moose bound away, and the spell

is broken.

108  EXT.  MINING SETTLEMENT - EVENING

Viking Bob, Mitchell and LeMalle head somberly back to

Cache.  They drive along a hydraulic gold mining sluice on a

nearby river and come into town.

As the trappers park their jeep, some MINERS greet them,

shouting over the ROAR of the water.

109  INT.  BEAR SIGN INN - CACHE - EVENING

Outside, a STORM rages.  LeMalle is drunk, but still able to

stuff himself with a thick steak.  Mitchell drums his

fingers and listens to everyone talk.  With them at the bar

are the Miners, LOGGERS, CAT SKINNERS (bulldozer drivers)

and some leathery WOMEN.

Someone's hat comes off.  It quickly gets filled with bills.

109  CONTINUED:

NEW ANGLE

Viking Bob hurries in and whispers something in Mitchell's

ear.  Mitchell shoots LeMalle a look and gets up.  The

threesome hastily exit, leaving behind the hat full of

money.

110  INT.  BEAR SIGN INN

Viking Bob, Mitchell and LeMalle stand in a quiet corner

near the front door.

110  CONTINUED:

111  EXT.  FOREST - CAMPSITE PREPARATION MONTAGE - EVENING

The STORM brings gusting winds and below-zero temperatures.

Eric and Corbett move through the storm in slow motion.

Both recognize the need for a truce in the face of a common

enemy.  The snow and wind cut through their clothing like

razors.  They poke around for dead wood with which to make a

fire.  The trees are small and healthy; little is found.

Awestruck by the intensity of the storm, Eric tears branches

from birch trees and piles them in Corbett's handcuffed

arms.

They hurry back to the nylon tarp, strung between two tree

trunks, FLAPPING violently in the storm.  Hunching against

the wind, Eric pulls off his gloves and reaches in his

pocket for some precious matches.  His fingers are so cold

he can't hold them, and he drops several in the wet snow.

Angry, he shoots a look at Corbett. Corbett is holding his

hands inside his coat.  He pulls them out and quickly takes

the remaining matches from Eric.

Crouching down, back to the wind, Corbett grasps a match

between his numb fingers and awkwardly strikes it.  He holds

the flame next to the kindling.  It doesn't catch fire

immediately.  Corbett lets the match burn out against his

fingers.  He tries another match.  This time, a flame takes

hold but could succumb to the wind at any moment.

On his knees and elbows, Corbett nurses along the tiny fire.

Eric can't control his shivering.  He gets on his knees next

to Corbett and holds his coat open to further baffle the

wind.  Corbett keeps his hands cupped around the flame, not

111  CONTINUED:

caring that it's burning his skin.  Finally the fire begins

to grow.  Relieved, Eric and Corbett look at each other with

a glimmer of a grudging mutual respect.

The fire, now unattended, is smoky as Corbett predicted, but

burns along nicely.

112  EXT. / INT.  NYLON SHELTER - NIGHT

Corbett and Eric sit under the nylon shelter.  The STORM

rages outside.  Eric empties his pockets of Eskimo potato,

reindeer lichens, bistsort sorrel and other plants for his

dinner.

Corbett has fashioned a snare from his boot laces and a tree

branch, and placed some crushed roots as aromatic bait next

to a small animal burrow outside the shelter.  A squirrel

sticks his nose out of the burrow to investigate.

Corbett sits catlike, ready to pounce.  Eric grimaces as

Corbett yanks on the snare and the squirrel's SQUEALS (OS)

abruptly cease.

113  INT.  NYLON SHELTER

Corbett pulls his dead dinner inside.

After a beat, Eric pulls open the small blade on his Swiss

Army knife and pushes it with his foot to Corbett.  Smiling,

Corbett admires the fancy knife.  Then, BELOW FRAME, he

skins and guts his catch.

113  CONTINUED:

Corbett eats the squirrel Eskimo-style.  Raw.  He uses the

knife like a native, too, holding the meat in his teeth,

then expertly cutting off a mouthful with a quick slice.

Eric stares, disgusted.  Off his look:

Corbett uses snow and the squirrel's fur to wipe the blood

from his face, then wipes the knife off and lays it, open,

next to his leg.

With a wry smile, Corbett pushes it back over to Eric.

While Eric eats his dinner, Corbett listens to the STORM and

watches him eat.

113  CONTINUED:  (2)

Corbett smiles -- maybe he's beginning to understand Eric.

Eric ponders Corbett's words as he eats.

114  INT.  THE TURTLE - NIGHT

Anne Marie is frantic with worry.  She has the AM/FM RADIO

on for company.

Anne Marie tunes the radio to "Pipeline of the North" on

KIAK.

114  CONTINUED:

Suddenly, a BUMP rocks the Turtle.  Someone is outside.

Startled, Anne Marie turns the lights off and looks out the

window.

No sign of a vehicle or a person.  As she pulls on her

parka, she glances at the big rifle leaning against the

wall, but doesn't touch it.

115  EXT.  THE TURTLE

Her visitor, whoever it is, is behind the Turtle.  Anne

Marie cautiously rounds the corner and stops dead.

NEW ANGLE

A foraging GRIZZLY sniffs around, attracted by the smell of

fresh carrion -- Wilder.  Eight feet tall and eleven-hundred

pounds, it's used to having its way.  Right now, it's

hungry.

With a casual swipe of its paw, its massive claws puncture

the Turtle's aluminum skin, popping open the door of the

utility compartment.  The bear pokes its head inside, and

Wilder's body slumps out into the snow.  The bear pushes at

the corpse with its snout.  Salivating, it prepares to dig

in.

Anne Marie looks around, wondering what the hell to do nEXT.

Wilder's snowmobile is a few yards behind her, parked

against the side of the Turtle.  She inches toward it.

Testily, the bear looks up, SNIFFING loudly.

Keeping her eyes on the bear, Anne Marie feels for the

snowmobile ignition keys.  They're not there.  She feels

around inside the saddlebags and finds three emergency road

flares.

Anne Marie IGNITES the flares.  They illuminate the area

with an eerie reddish glow.  She YELLS at the bear, wields

the flares like Excalibur and moves forward.

The bear, reluctant to leave so hearty a pre-hibernation

meal, GROWLS and cocks its head back and forth to assess the

threat.  As Anne Marie inches ahead, the bear stands on hind

legs to its full height to meet the challenge.

115  CONTINUED:

Anne Marie tosses a flare toward the bear.  It grunts when

the flare hits it, and shuffles backwards.  Anne Marie

throws another flare.  With a ROAR from hell, the bear

charges.  Anne Marie falls back.  Still holding the last

flare, she's forced into a crawl space under the Turtle.

ANGLE - UNDER THE TURTLE

Anne Marie tries to squeeze out the other side, but she's

pinned in by the unevenness of the hard ground.  The bear

swipes at her, its huge paw inches away.  Anne Marie jabs at

the paw with the flare, but that only makes the bear more

quarrelsome.

She twists around, looking for a defense.  Above her is the

cabling from the generator to the circuit box for the

Turtle's electrical system.  She tugs at it, but it won't

budge.  The bear SNIFFS at Anne Marie with its big wet

snout.  Anne Marie notices warning a sign on a control

valve:

Grimacing, she tries to turn the valve.  After much effort,

it SNAPS and opens, releasing a stream of fetid sewage.

WIDER

The bear gets a muzzle full of the stuff.  HOWLING

unhappily, it backs away, GRUNTING and SNEEZING.  Greatly

offended, its appetite gone, it lopes into the forest.

Anne Marie squirms out from under the Turtle and, gagging

from the horrible smell, pulls off her wet parka.

116  EXT.  WOODS NEAR THE TURTLE - SERIES OF SHOTS - NIGHT

Wearing one of Eric's coats, Anne Marie stands in the center

of three similarly-sized trees.  A FLARE supplies the light.

The big Remington rifle leans against the tree closest to

her.

She tosses one end of a hundred feet of nylon rope over a

sturdy tree branch twenty-five feet from the ground.  Then

she throws the other end over an opposing branch and

stretches the rope like a clothesline.

116  CONTINUED:

She attaches a second length of rope perpendicular to the

first and throws it over a third tree branch, midway between

the other two.  She kneels and ties something BELOW FRAME to

the cross-length rope.

Pulling mightily on the perpendicular rope, she hoists

something heavy to the level of the branches.  The flare

burns out, plunging the area into darkness.

Anne Marie wraps the rope around the tree trunk and

nervously tries to LIGHT another flare.  As she does, the

forest seems closer, sinister, filled with lurking ogres.

Seized with an instinctual fear, she grabs the rifle and

runs back to the Turtle.

117  EXT.  ENDICOTT FOOTHILLS - DAY

The storm has passed, leaving a fresh covering of powdery

snow in drifts like sand dunes.  Eric and Corbett trek

toward Devil's Cauldron through the ever-thickening forest.

Corbett has made them snow goggles by cutting slits in

strips of tree bark worn like sunglasses.  Eric, using a

tree branch as a walking stick, still limps on his sore

ankle.  For the first time, he keeps the magnum stuck in his

waistband.

Corbett takes advantage of Eric's poor peripheral vision

from the visor by kneeing Eric in the face.  Eric falls

backwards into the snow.  Corbett takes off like a

jackrabbit.  Eric spits out some blood, shakes the stars out

of his eyes and yanks the .357 from under his coat.

117  CONTINUED:

Corbett bounds through the snow, dodging trees and

snow-covered rocks.

Eric squeezes off a SHOT, and is startled by the recoil and

the blast.  He scrambles to his feet and SHOOTS again.

Corbett zigzags and disappears from sight over a snowbank.

NEW ANGLE - FOLLOW CORBETT

Corbett runs over a frozen stream, invisible under a cover

of snow.  Suddenly, the ice SHATTERS under him.  Corbett is

immersed in frigid, waist-deep water.  He gasps from the

sudden temperature drop.

ERIC

hobbles after him, CUSSING bitterly to himself.

CORBETT

crawls to solid ground.  Disoriented from the shock to his

system, he rolls over to catch his breath.

WIDER

Eric appears over a snowbank.

Corbett tries to run, but his frozen, waterlogged legs feel

like pig iron.  Stumbling and panting, he looks for a safe

place to cross the stream.  Eric easily catches up to him.

Corbett sits in the snow, shivering.  He looks up as Eric

trots over.

Eric glares at Corbett and rubs the bruise on his cheek.

Noticing Corbett's sopping legs, Eric becomes furious.

117  CONTINUED:  (2)

Fuming, Eric helps Corbett up.

118  EXT.  ENDICOTT FOOTHILLS - EVENING

The sun sinks below the horizon, creating across the

mountains a spectacular show of color and shadows.  The wind

HOWLS.

119  INT.  NYLON SHELTER

Eric stokes a fire at the mouth of the shelter.  Corbett's

pants and boots hang to dry from branches next to it.  He

huddles under the tarp, covered by his coat, drowsy and

listless.

Eric examines him.  Corbett's skin is white and rigid, his

lips are pale blue.  He scowls at Eric.

He starts to doze off.  The shivering he's been repressing

now racks his body.  Eric sits him up, closer to the fire,

and puts his own parka over Corbett's shoulders.  With his

foot, Eric rolls some hot rocks bordering the fire closer to

119  CONTINUED:

Corbett's legs.  Eric rubs his arms and hands, but it isn't

enough.  Eric loathes the specter of death, even Corbett's.

He shakes him, trying to keep him awake.

Corbett is headed someplace far away.  Sighing, Eric turns

him so his back faces the fire.  He unbuttons Corbett's

shirt, then unbuttons his own shirt and lies across Corbett.

Eric gasps -- Corbett feels like a slab of ice.  Corbett's

teeth chatter.  He's completely unconscious.

DISSOLVE TO:

Later, Corbett rests fitfully.  It could go either way.

Eric chews on some roots and pokes at the fire to keep it

lively.

DISSOLVE TO:

It's night.  Some color has returned to Corbett's skin.

Eric turns as Corbett mumbles and clutches at the front of

his shirt.  His eyes open.  He tries to sit up, but he's too

weak.

119  CONTINUED:  (2)

Corbett smiles.

120  EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - NIGHT

The AURORA makes a dazzling display in the cold clear sky.

Below, the only light on the endless expanse of dark earth

comes from the Turtle.

CLOSER

Flashlight in hand, wearing one of Eric's coats, Anne Marie

refuels the generator.  Something catches her eye --

ANNE MARIE'S POV

In the distance, headlight beams jostle along the Haul Road.

BACK TO SCENE

Anne Marie caps the diesel fuel can and stows it away.

She hurries back into the Turtle.

121  INT.  THE TURTLE

Anne Marie brushes her hair and makes herself presentable.

122  EXT.  THE TURTLE

The vehicle gets closer.  It's the trappers' jeep.  It slows

and parks on the Haul Road next to the Turtle.

123  INT.  THE TURTLE

Anne Marie peers out the window.  She gasps as she

recognizes the jeep.  Ducking from sight below the window,

she grabs Eric's coat and hurries into the rear module.

124  EXT.  THE TURTLE

Mitchell stays in the jeep.  Viking Bob and LeMalle get out

and walk cautiously toward the Turtle.

LeMalle stands midway between the jeep and the Turtle,

cradling his carbine.  Viking Bob goes up the steps.

125  INT.  THE TURTLE - REAR MODULE

Anne Marie remembers something she should've taken with her:

the rifle.  Too late.  She hears Viking Bob's FOOTSTEPS (OS)

come up the wooden stairs outside.

126  EXT.  THE TURTLE

Viking Bob knocks on the front door.  He peers through the

sheer curtain on the window, into the front module.

He shrugs to the others, then tries the door.  It's

unlocked.

Mitchell gets out of the jeep, spits and follows the others

in, his hand close to the Colt Peacemaker strapped to his

leg.

127  INT.  THE TURTLE

Anne Marie climbs out a window in the back.  She closes it

behind her just as Viking Bob pokes his head in the rear

module.

The trappers snoop around, noticing that the coffee pot is

still warm, etc.  The emptiness is ominous.  LeMalle picks

up the big Remington bear rifle.  He opens the breech to

determine if it's loaded, and sniffs the barrel to see if

127  CONTINUED:

it's recently been fired.  Viking Bob notices the damaged

radio.

128  EXT.  THE TURTLE

LeMalle goes outside and shines his flashlight around.

NEW ANGLE

In the back, Anne Marie drags an evergreen tree branch

behind her to cover her tracks in the snow, then climbs into

the utility compartment where Wilder's body was stored.

A moment later, LeMalle comes around the corner.  He notices

bear tracks and scat from the prior night's visit.

Viking Bob and Mitchell converge with LeMalle.  They point

their flashlights around, spotting footprints and marks

going off into the woods.

129  EXT.  WOODS NEAR THE TURTLE

Tense and silent, the trappers follow the marks.  A breeze

RUSTLES the needles of the evergreens around them.  They

stop at the point the footprints end.  A rhythmic CREAKING

above them makes LeMalle shine his light upward.

NEW ANGLE

The light REVEALS Wilder's feet swinging back and forth

above their heads.  His body is suspended in the manner of a

trail cache.  Viking Bob lets out a startled grunt.  He and

Mitchell shine their lights on Wilder's face.

129  CONTINUED:

The trappers look glumly at one another.

130  INT.  UTILITY COMPARTMENT - THE TURTLE

Anne Marie jams herself behind a pile of her photo

equipment.  She stops as she hears the trappers' boots (OS)

CRUNCH in the snow past her and go inside the Turtle.

131  INT.  THE TURTLE

The trappers peel off their overcoats.  They look around at

the comfortable surroundings.

He sits on the couch and lays his scrimshaw and engraving

tools out on the coffee table.  LeMalle helps himself in the

well-stocked larder.

LeMalle digs through the cupboards and comes up with a fresh

bottle of Scotch.

132  EXT.  THE TURTLE - LATER THAT NIGHT

Flashlight in hand, gloriously drunk, LeMalle stumbles

outside.  He crosses to the jeep to grab a box of Twinkies

and, as long as he's at it, take a leak in a snowbank.

Bleary-eyed, he notices the damage to the utility

compartment inflicted by the bear.

He walks to it, stepping over the bear scat.  He marvels at

the size and depth of the clawmarks.

132  CONTINUED:

LeMalle tries the door, but it's jammed shut.  He tucks his

flashlight under his arm and gives another tug.  This time

the door cracks open.

CLOSER - HIS POV

He peers through the opening and shines his flashlight in.

A pair of eyes stare back at him.

WIDER

LeMalle jumps back, startled, and pulls out his knife.   He

tries the door again.  It WRENCHES open...

...He's looking at his own face in one of Anne Marie's

mirrored photo reflector boards.

Letting his breath out, LeMalle pokes around the equipment

in the compartment.  Ever larcenous, he pulls a few items

out, examines them, and, disinterested, leaves them in the

snow.  Doing so, he comes close to uncovering Anne Marie,

who sits motionless and terrified in the back of the

compartment.

Nothing in the compartment catches LeMalle's fancy.  Leaving

the door hanging open, he wanders away.

133  INT.  UTILITY COMPARTMENT - THE TURTLE

After he's gone, Anne Marie reaches over and closes the

door.  She can hear the trappers' (OS) CONVERSATION inside:

Sighing, Anne Marie stuffs her hands inside her parka and

tries to get comfortable.  It's going to be a long night.

134  EXT.  ENDICOTT FOOTHILLS - DAWN

Eric and Corbett wearily trudge through the woods.  Corbett

has the tarp wrapped around him for extra warmth.  As he

walks, he sniffs at one of Eric's Eskimo potato roots and

takes a tentative nibble.

134  CONTINUED:

They walk in silence.  Corbett tightens the tarp against the

cold air and looks at Eric.

134  CONTINUED:  (2)

He shoves Eric with his handcuffed hands.

Livid, Eric backs away and knocks Corbett's hands away from

him.

Eric smashes his fist into Corbett's face.  Corbett reels

back, more surprised than hurt.  Eric moves in, furiously

throwing punches.  Corbett plows his clenched fists into

Eric's midsection, doubling him over.  Gasping, Eric rams

his head into Corbett and they fall into the snow.

Despite the handcuffs, Corbett gets a few blows in.  They

wrestle fiercely, and Eric ends up on top of Corbett.  He's

about to throw another punch when Corbett looks up at him.

134  CONTINUED:  (3)

Eric lowers his fist and climbs off of Corbett.  Corbett

gets up and they continue on their way in sullen silence.

135  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY

Sunday morning.  Chimney smoke rises straight up in the

still morning air and mingles with the wisps of fog hanging

above the Devil's Cauldron valley.

A scratchy RECORDING of a HYMN ("We Will Gather at the

River") plays through a PA system, ECHOING forlornly off the

hills.  The PEOPLE of Devil's Cauldron walk through the new

snow to the center of the settlement.  Some, older Women

mostly, head for the dance hall, where the HYMN originates.

136  INT.  DANCE HALL

The Women SING along with the HYMN.  They face a shelf

holding the PA, a rusty TV and record player.  And, in front

of the shelf, an unmanned pulpit.

137  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON

The Men, including Neff, split off from their mates and go

into the Maqi.

138  INT.  MAQI

Neff joins some other Men sweating on benches in the

primitive steam bath.   Kenai sits closest to the fire.  His

thick glasses are steamed up, but he finally looks warm.

139  EXT.  FOOTHILLS ABOVE DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAY

Exhausted, Corbett and Eric climb across the last set of

foothills before the Devil's Cauldron valley.  The town

comes into view below them; faintly the MUSIC carries from

below.  Corbett looks at Eric and breaks the silence:

139  CONTINUED:

Eric sweeps the snow from between two rocks and sits down.

Corbett sits next to him.  After a long moment:

139  CONTINUED:  (2)

The men listen to the faint MUSIC echoing through the silent

foothills.

Eric glances over as a look of utter desolation crosses

Corbett's face.

140  EXT.  HAUL ROAD - THE TURTLE - DAY

The trappers file out the front door.

LeMalle carries his booty with him.  Viking Bob looks at him

disapprovingly as he puts the big Remington rifle in the

jeep.

To demonstrate, he rapid-fires several SHOTS from the hip,

taking the radio antenna off the roof of the Turtle,

shattering panes of glass in an accurate succession, and

blasting the door latch off the utility compartment.

140  CONTINUED:

Pleased, LeMalle slams back the bolt, ejecting a spent

shell.  He glances curiously at the door of the utility

compartment and starts toward it.

LeMalle climbs into the back of the jeep.  With Viking Bob

driving, they pull away.

141  EXT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - (MOVING SHOT)

Grinning maliciously, LeMalle hangs the Remington out the

window as they retreat.  Taking careful aim, he SHOOTS.

142  EXT.  THE TURTLE

LeMalle's bullet hits the metal fuel tank of the generator.

The kerosene fumes EXPLODE, splattering BURNING KEROSENE on

the rear module of the Turtle.

The trappers don't slow down to enjoy the show.  Viking Bob

hurries on to more important business.

143  INT.  UTILITY COMPARTMENT - THE TURTLE

As soon as the SOUND of the jeep fades away, Anne Marie

clambers out of the utility compartment.  Haggard and numb

with cold, she helplessly watches as the fire ravenously

devours the rear module.  Shielding her face from the

flames, Anne Marie reaches under the accordion cover between

the modules.  With great effort, she unbolts the coupling

bracket.

144  INT.  DIESEL RIG - THE TURTLE

Anne Marie STARTS the engine, SLAMS it into gear, and

lurches the front module away from the burning rear module.

She shuts the motor off and, trying to hold back the tears,

watches the rear module BURNING.

145  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NIGHT

Bone weary, Eric and Corbett walk toward town, staying on

the outskirts to avoid being seen.  They look at one another

-- this moment seemed impossible not very long ago.  No one

seems to notice as they limp into Wilder's cabin.

146  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

It's dark.  Eric locks Corbett up in the holding cell, not

noticing that Corbett seems almost pleased to be there.  He

blocks the windows, pumps up the pressure on the white gas

lantern and heads back outside again.

147  INT.  NEFF'S HOUSE

Neff pries himself from his MTV to answer a KNOCK at the

door.  Eric hobbles in.  Neff notes Eric's weatherbeaten

condition.

147  CONTINUED:

After Eric goes, Neff closes his door and bolts it.

148  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - VARIOUS ANGLES - NIGHT

The temperature dips as the winds shifts and blows down from

the north.  Another storm approaches.  The temperate days of

last week seem ages ago.

Kenai, Neff, and other TOWNSMEN batten Devil's Cauldron down

for the STORM.  Kenai is bundled up in the cold.  The men

tighten guy wires on the radio tower, windmills and caches;

bring firewood indoors; close off unused rooms in the

general store and spa.  Then Neff and Kenai split off from

the others.

149  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Via a catwalk, Neff and Kenai climb up into the ceiling

struts above the partitioned cubicles in the spa to caulk a

roof leak with pitch.  Neff is sullen from his conversation

with Eric. Kenai, however, is smiling at Neff.

150  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT

Eric stirs a pot of beans on the cookstove.  Corbett watches

from the cot in the cell.

Corbett sits up as Eric hands him a plate of beans.

Corbett sees he's hit a nerve with Eric.

150  CONTINUED:

A KNOCK at the door interrupts.  Eric lowers the flame on

the gas lantern and peers out through a corner of the

cardboard in the front window.  Frowning, he cracks the door

open and slips outside.

151  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN

It's Neff and Kenai.  Neff looks guiltily at Eric.

Eric is skeptical of Kenai's concern.

Eric looks at Kenai, then at Neff.  Neff nods that it's

okay.  As extra precaution, Eric handcuffs Corbett's right

wrist to the frame of the cot inside the cell.

152  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT

Outside the wind HOWLS.  Eric enters and walks into the

hallway connecting the bath partitions.  A hand grabs his

arm.  Startled, he turns around.

It's Dixie, wearing a threadbare flannel robe.

Eric shakes his head -- typical Kenai.  He gives her three

tens.  She smiles and leads Eric toward the "infirmary."

It's actually a bath partition outfitted with an examining

table and a first-aid kit.

153  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT

Neff paces nervously.  Corbett smiles at him and Kenai.

Kenai tugs on the drawer.  It's locked.  Undaunted, he

jimmies it open with a knife.  Neff groans.  Kenai goes to

throw Corbett the duffel bag, but Neff grabs it.  He checks

for weapons, pulling out a hunting knife.  Satisfied, he

hands Corbett the bag through the bars.

With his free hand, Corbett digs through his belongings:

clothing, freeze-dried provisions, jerky, paperback books.

He looks up and shrugs.

154  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT

Eric's ankle is in a resin cast.  His foot rests on a stool.

While waiting for the cast to set he soaks in the bathtub, a

hot towel draped over his face.  Above him, on a wall

bracket, a closed circuit TV plays a war-surplus PORNO FILM.

The door CREAKS open and Dixie comes in.  She impassively

checks his cast -- which is interesting, as she's now

wearing panties, clog shoes and nothing else.  Eric takes

the towel off his face and sits up, astonished.

Before Eric can protest, the door OPENS again.  It's

Meyerling.  He snaps his fingers at Dixie to shoo her and

she scurries away.

154  CONTINUED:

155  EXT.  CHUKFOKTULIK, ALASKA - NIGHT

Consisting of a handful of sod-roof cabins, mostly bars,

Chukfoktulik is a way station in the coniferous forest,

sixty miles southeast of Devil's Cauldron.

156  INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP

With the seats pushed back, LeMalle peels the town's lone

WHORE out of her parka.  He's got the motor running for

warmth.  Her gold tooth glints in the light from the

building next to them.  The locating screen on the beat-up

radio beacon receiver bolted to the dash GLOWS

phosphorescent green.

Over the sound of LeMalle's exertions there begins an

insistent succession of BEEPS.  The Whore looks over

LeMalle's shoulder at the locating device.

LeMalle turns and immediately loses interest in the Whore.

Pushing her off of him, he blows the jeep's HORN three

times.

157  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA - NIGHT

Eric and Meyerling are in the middle of an argument.

157  CONTINUED:

Eric's attention turns to a rhythmic INTERFERENCE on the TV

screen.  There are three short bursts, followed by three

long bursts.  Something about it is very familiar.

Scowling, he sits up.

Eric climbs out of the water and pulls his pants on.

158  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT

Kenai sorts through the tangle of Corbett's traps.   The

door bursts open and Eric hobbles in.  Gun drawn, Eric

unlocks the cell door.  He rips Corbett's shirt open.

Looking around, he sees Corbett's duffel bag sitting by the

cot.  Digging through it, he finds at the bottom of the bag

an ELT with a small red LED flashing on it.

Furious, he flings it against the wall, smashing it.

159  INT.  TRAPPERS' JEEP - CHUKFOKTULIK - NIGHT

The green dot on the screen and rhythmic BLEEP go suddenly

dead, just as Viking Bob and Mitchell run up to the jeep.

LeMalle dumps the half-naked Whore out onto the snow.

Viking Bob starts the jeep and they roar off.

160  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN - NIGHT

Eric shoves Kenai and Neff out the door.

He slams the door.  Corbett smiles his Cheshire smile.

160  CONTINUED:

161  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - DAWN

Fat, dry snowflakes pour through the still air.  Gloomy

clouds hang immediately overhead.  Visibility is ten feet;

the temperature is below zero.

162  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

It's 5:30 AM.  Sitting at Wilder's desk, Eric pries the tops

from some bullets and dumps the gunpowder into a styrofoam

cup. He rings the top of the cup with bluetip matches, then

seals it with masking tape.  Watching him from the cell,

Corbett smiles.

Eric doesn't answer.  He pulls on a heavy overcoat of

Wilder's.  Putting the unused bullets back in Wilder's desk,

Eric finds Corbett's .44 magnum.  He puts it and some

speedloaders full of .357 hollowpoints in his pockets.

163  EXT. / INT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - MONTAGE

Eric hobbles across town to the hot springs under cover of

the early hour and heavy snowfall.  He paces out several

circuitous routes from the rental cabins to the airstrip at

the edge of town, pausing now and again along the way.

He hears a door SQUEAK open and someone COUGH nearby, so he

stands motionless in the snow.

Bundled in wool blankets, Kenai trundles down to his

outhouse.

After Kenai passes by, Eric sneaks inside the spa.  He

climbs up into the catwalk.

As Kenai goes back to his cabin, he notices that the antique

bear traps on display in front of the general store are

missing.  Suddenly, Eric grabs him and pulls him into the

spa doorway.

164  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Eric's unexpected appearance startles Kenai.

NEW ANGLE

Outside, there is the high-pitched WHINE of a snowmobile

(OS) driving into town.  Eric cautiously follows the SOUND.

165  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - CLOSE ON ERIC

He listens as the vehicle cuts across town toward Neff's

house.  The snowfall is too thick to see who it is.  Eric

165  CONTINUED:

moves in as close as he dares.  The ENGINE stops (OS) and

FOOTSTEPS crunch up Neff's driveway.

WIDER ANGLE - NEFF'S HOUSE

A person in a hooded parka stands on Neff's stoop, about to

knock.  Magnum drawn, Eric suddenly appears from the curtain

of falling snow.  He shoves the person against the side of

the house.

NEW ANGLE

It's Anne Marie.  She gasps.  Seeing Eric, she's more angry

than relieved.  Eric puts the gun back in his waistband.

He pulls her away from Neff's doorstep.  Her anger

dissolving, she wraps her arms around him.

165  CONTINUED:  (2)

Anne Marie grasps the situation with a sickening clarity.

CUTAWAY - NEFF

has been eavesdropping on the conversation through his

window.  The news about Wilder stuns him.

BACK TO SCENE

Eric knows she won't relent.

Sighing, she STARTS the snow machine.  Most of her photo

gear is lashed to the saddlebags.  As she pulls away, Eric

limps back to Neff's house and knocks on the door.

Shaken, Neff opens the door and lets Eric in.

165  CONTINUED:  (3)

Neff gets a seasick look on his face.

Neff opens the door for Eric.

166  EXT.  WILDER'S CABIN

Anne Marie waits in front as Eric hobbles up.  She looks at

his bad ankle.

He leads her inside.

167  INT.  WILDER'S CABIN

Corbett is calmly reclining on the cot in the holding cell.

Seeing Anne Marie, he smiles.

This comment has the intended effect on Anne Marie.  Angry,

Eric throws Corbett a coat.  Corbett puts it on.  Reaching

through the bars, Eric cuffs Corbett's hands together.

As they exit, Corbett's sardonic look makes Anne Marie

shiver.

168  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

The ten-by-ten cabin is furnished with two sagging cots, a

beat-up color TV set, a cookstove and a half-drum heat

stove.  Built into the rear wall is a rustic dumb waiter

that once lowered perishables into the icy waters of a

now-dry stream.

Eric checks his watch.  6:15 AM.  He bolts the door and

blocks the windows, opening one enough to let sound in from

outside.  He extinguishes the Benman lantern and douses the

fire in the heat stove so no smoke will emit from the

chimney.  Anne Marie slumps into the corner next to the dumb

waiter.

168  CONTINUED:

Anne Marie reluctantly takes the huge gun.  Trying to allay

her fears, Eric sits and brushes the hair from her face.

Corbett intently watches them.  Before he can say anything,

Eric shoots him a cold look.  Corbett stays quiet.

169  EXT. / INT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - VARIOUS ANGLES - DAY

A pall hangs over the town.  People know to stay inside.

Time crawls by.

In his house, Neff, for once, has his TV turned off.  He

tries to read and listens for sounds outside.

In the spa, water DRIPS somewhere.  All the stalls are

empty.

In his sod house, Kenai looks out his one tiny window at the

curtain of snow.  Dixie comes up behind him and puts her

hands on his shoulders.  He looks up at her, glum.

In Wilder's empty cabin, his belongings are scattered about

as if expecting his imminent return.

In the rental cabin, Eric checks his watch.  10:45 AM.

170  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR WILDER'S CABIN - DAY

The sound of a MOTOR grows in volume, then abruptly ceases.

The trappers' jeep APPEARS in the snowfall on the road into

town.  It coasts quietly in and stops behind the cover of a

woodpile across from Wilder's cabin.

The trappers get out of the jeep.  LeMalle has Eric's

Remington, Mitchell has his Peacemaker, and Viking Bob

carries LeMalle's old carbine.  Mitchell spits.  It's so

cold outside that the spittle freezes and CRACKS before it

hits the ground.

They fan out and approach Wilder's cabin.

ANGLE WITH TRAPPERS

The cabin comes more clearly into view as the trappers move

closer.  There is no sign of life.  Viking Bob gestures for

the others, now positioned on either side of the cabin, to

crouch down for cover.

No response.  Carbine held at his hip, Viking Bob walks up

to the door and, with a mighty kick, BREAKS it in.

170  CONTINUED:

REVERSE ANGLE - THROUGH WILDER'S CABIN DOOR

Viking Bob points the carbine at an empty room.  He notices,

however, Corbett's duffel bag on the floor of the cell.

171  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON

The trappers march through town like an advancing army,

looking for some sign of Corbett.  LeMalle stops to dig

through his pockets for some food.  All he comes up with is

the stump of a candy bar.  Viking Bob looks at him

impatiently.

To prove his point, LeMalle trots from dwelling to dwelling,

looking through windows and letting himself in through any

unlocked door.  This proves fruitless, so he lets out a

frustrated YELL.  Pointing the Remington skyward, he lets

off a couple thunderous SHOTS that ECHO back off the

foothills.

172  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Hearing the shots, Eric pushes Anne Marie against the floor.

Cautioning her to stay put, he crawls to the window and

tries to see through the snowfall.  After a moment of

silence, from outside, not too far away:

Eric points the magnum at Corbett.

173  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

Viking Bob and Mitchell come running over to LeMalle.

LeMalle fires another couple SHOTS for emphasis.

He and the others strain their ears for a clue.

174  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

His mind racing, Eric stares at Corbett.  Despite the

freezing temperature of the room, he's sweating.

Setting his resolve, Eric drags Corbett to the window.  He

pushes the barrel of the magnum against Corbett's cheek.

Anne Marie bites her lip and tries to maintain a brave

front.  Despite the gun in his face, Corbett remains calm.

175  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

Hearing Corbett's voice, the trappers spin around, trying to

ascertain its direction.

175  CONTINUED:

The trappers follow his VOICE toward the rental cabins.

176  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Eric pulls Corbett away from the window.  He shoots a look

at Anne Marie.  They're in a bind and she knows it.

177  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

LeMalle grabs Viking Bob's arm.

178  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Eric glances at Corbett, whose grim look certifies LeMalle's

boast.

178  CONTINUED:

Anne Marie tries to hide how tempted she is by Corbett's

offer.

Eric sighs -- is she against him, too?  From outside:

The trappers are obviously much closer.  Eric signals to

Corbett not to answer.

NEW ANGLE

Eric and Corbett face the window.  They don't notice as Anne

Marie quietly shimmies outside through the narrow dumb

waiter shaft to the back of the rental cabin.  Eric turns,

gasping as he realizes she's gone.  Corbett smiles

sardonically.

179  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - FOLLOW ANNE MARIE

Using the cover of the snowfall, Anne Marie circles around

the outside edge of town toward Wilder's cabin.  She takes

some of her photo gear from the snowmobile.

180  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

Unaware of Anne Marie's maneuver, the trappers wait for a

response from Corbett.  None comes.  Viking Bob places a

calming hand on LeMalle's shoulder.

181  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - ANTENNA TOWER

With a camera bag slung over her shoulder, Anne Marie climbs

up the metal antenna tower behind Neff's house on the edge

of town. She grits her teeth and fights back a wave of

vertigo. The ground disappears from sight, hidden by the

snow and fog.

Fifty feet up, she attaches her infrared video camera to the

tower crossbars and, using a length of coaxial cable, hooks

its RF output to the feedline of the community TV antenna.

182  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Eric looks at his watch.  10:55 AM.

183  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

A CRACKING twig behind the cabins gets the trappers'

attention.  Clutching his rifle, LeMalle goes to

investigate.

WITH LEMALLE

as he probes through the snow, listening.  He reaches the

edge of the woods and, finding nothing, returns to the

others.

NEW ANGLE

Anne Marie crouches behind a tree, twenty feet behind

LeMalle.  After a moment, she tiptoes back toward the rental

cabin.

184  INT.  RENTAL CABIN

Eric and Corbett turn as Anne Marie's camera bag suddenly

drops from the dumb waiter shaft.  Anne Marie wriggles back

inside.  Before Eric can say anything, she puts her fingers

over his mouth.  She turns on the TV set and tunes it to

channel 3.

ANGLE ON TV

A fuzzy IMAGE comes into view.  It's Devil's Cauldron from

the vantage of Anne Marie's infrared video camera.  The

falling snow shows up as a translucent yellow wash over the

scene.  Buildings are distinguishable as bluish silhouettes.

Heat-producing objects -- warm walls, chimney smoke, etc. --

are pink and red.  And there are three clearly-definable

human figures standing near the Maqi.  The trappers.

BACK TO SCENE

Corbett is amazed.  Eric smiles at Anne Marie.

184  CONTINUED:

He digs through Anne Marie's bag of equipment and supplies,

then stops and looks up.  Outside, there is an OS SOUND that

is felt before it is HEARD.  The cargo PLANE approaches in

the distance.

185  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - NEAR MAQI

The trappers look at each other as the SOUND of the plane

grows louder.

186  EXT.  RENTAL CABIN

Eric quietly pulls the door open.  Holding the pistol to

Corbett's head, he pushes Corbett out in front of him.

Anne Marie and Eric exchange a long look.  Fighting back

tears, she reaches up and touches his face.

He smiles.  Then he and Corbett are gone, lost from sight in

the snowfall.   After a beat, Anne Marie takes a deep breath

and slinks away in the other direction, toward the dance

hall.

186  CONTINUED:

ANGLE NEAR THE MAQI

The trappers wait, twenty-five feet from Eric and Corbett.

The DRONE of the plane grows louder.

ERIC AND CORBETT

start toward the airstrip.  Corbett sees a patch of bare

dirt and SCUFFS his feet in it.

ANGLE NEAR MAQI

The trappers turn to the SOUND, heard under the RUMBLE of

the still-distant plane.  Converging, they head in that

direction.  Suddenly, Anne Marie's VOICE booms through the

town:

WIDER

Eric SHOOTS a couple times, then backtracks and pulls

Corbett behind one of the rental cabins.

Ducking the bullets, the trappers sprawl onto the ground.

187  INT.  DANCE HALL

Anne Marie has turned on the rusty TV near the pulpit.

While watching the infrared IMAGE of the action outside, she

holds the microphone wired to the old PA.

ANGLE - THE TRAPPERS

Viking Bob gestures to Mitchell and LeMalle to separate.

Angry, LeMalle BLASTS his rifle in direction of her VOICE.

Stalking, anxious, LeMalle follows Viking Bob.

187  CONTINUED:

MITCHELL

splits off from them and looks for footprints in the snow.

188  EXT.  ALLEY

Eric pushes Corbett through a narrow pass between two

buildings in the center of town.  He walks in Corbett's

footprints.  Almost through to the other side, he suddenly

stops.  Pulling Corbett with him, Eric walks backwards,

still carefully placing each foot in an existing footprINT.

Corbett can't help but smile.

189  INT.  DANCE HALL

Watching the TV screen, Anne Marie sees one of the red blips

change direction and head toward her.

190  EXT.  DANCE HALL

It's LeMalle.  He crosses to Kenai's generator.  With a

well-placed rifle SHOT to its innards, he GRINDS it to a

halt.

191  INT.  DANCE HALL

The TV PICTURE disappears as the power dies.  Anne Marie

keys the PA microphone; it's dead, too.

192  EXT.  ALLEY

Eric and Corbett emerge from between the buildings.  Eric

backtracks toward the hot springs spa, now leaving an

obvious trail.

193  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Eric and Corbett go inside.  Eric pulls the door closed

behind them, but leaves it ajar.

194  INT.  KENAI'S HOUSE

The DRONE of the approaching plane is ever louder.  Kenai

stands and pulls on a succession of sweaters.  Dixie looks

at him.

194  CONTINUED:

He straps on a holster under his sealskin coat.

195  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AIRSTRIP - LONG SHOT

The big 4-prop plane is about to touch down on the far side

of the snow-covered airstrip.

196  INT.  DANCE HALL

Anne Marie zips up her parka and cautiously goes outside.

197  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

LeMalle follows the footprints to the door Eric left ajar.

He peers inside.

198  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

It's tomb-quiet except for water DRIPPING and pipes

CREAKING.  LeMalle looks around.  The sound of a small DING

against metal above him gets his attention.

He sees a fleeting shadow cut across the catwalk above him.

He finds a metal ladder, slings his rifle over his shoulder

and climbs up.  Hearing another SOUND on the far side of the

catwalk, he hurries across, holding onto the pipes for

balance.

LeMalle is directly above the huge central pool.  He ducks

to go under a long piece of twine running from the ceiling

to a dark corner below.  Suddenly, the twine snaps tight,

pulling open a heavy trap door on the ceiling.  The door

swings down and knocks LeMalle off the catwalk.  With a

yelp, he splashes into the water below.

NEW ANGLE

Hidden in the shadows, Eric drops the end of the twine and

rushes toward the front door with Corbett in tow.

LEMALLE

climbs out of the central pool, soaked.   He pulls his wet

jacket off and furiously throws it down.

199  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Eric leads Corbett around the back of the spa.  A GUNSHOT

rings out nearby and a BULLET hits the wall above Eric's

head.

MITCHELL

has seen their faint silhouettes through the snow.  He

purposely SHOOTS over their heads so he doesn't hit Corbett.

ANGLE BEHIND HOT SPRINGS SPA

Eric and Corbett crouch down and double back.   They are

once again swallowed up by the snowfall.

200  EXT.  ALLEY

Viking Bob follows their footprints in between the

buildings.  He continues to a point where they converge to

one set, then stop.  He smiles at the naivete of Eric's

ploy.  Looking at the boardwalk railing above, he assumes

Eric and Corbett have swung over it onto the iced-over

boardwalk.  Pleased with his deduction, Viking Bob continues

along the alley.

SNAP!  Viking Bob lets out a horrible HOWL and falls on his

back in the snow.  Biting into his right calf is a huge

conibear leg trap.  In extreme pain, he struggles to lever

it open with the barrel of his rifle.

201  EXT.  KENAI'S GENERAL STORE

Corbett shoots Eric a dangerous look as Viking Bob's CRIES

carry though the town.

202  EXT.  ALLEY

Hearing Viking Bob's cries, Mitchell backtracks and rushes

to Viking Bob's aid.  Between them, they manage to yawn open

the jaws of the trap and free Viking Bob's leg.  Viking Bob

tries to walk but the leg won't support him -- the bone is

broken.  Bitterly frustrated, he waves Mitchell on.  In

agony, Viking Bob eases down in the snow.  He tears a strip

of lining from his coat and wraps his leg to stop the

bleeding.

203  EXT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Anne Marie scurries by on her way to the airstrip.

Suddenly, the hot springs door bursts open and LeMalle

lunges at her.  Stripped of his wet clothes, he's wrapped

203  CONTINUED:

in blankets and furs, his feet protected by sacks lashed to

them.  His wet body and hair steams in the frigid air.

Anne Marie lets out a startled cry and springs away from

him.  She falls hard on her back, knocking her wind out.

Scrambling for footing in the snow, LeMalle drops his rifle.

He comes at her again.  Anne Marie moves away and pulls the

.44 magnum out.  LeMalle stops and glares at her.

She gets up, keeping the magnum pointed shakily toward him.

LeMalle glowers menacingly.

LeMalle slowly crouches down for his rifle.  Anne Marie

wields the handgun at him, but he doesn't stop.

Taunting, sneering, LeMalle stares her down.  Anne Marie is

paralyzed.  Feeling that he's won, LeMalle wraps his bony

fingers around the stock of the Remington.

Anne Marie closes her eyes and FIRES.  Pulling the rifle

close, LeMalle tucks and rolls and jumps to his feet.  Anne

Marie FIRES again, and AGAIN.  Shot, LeMalle hobbles away,

leaving a trail of blood in the snow.  Numb, Anne Marie lets

her arm fall.

204  EXT.  BOARDWALK NEAR WILDER'S CABIN

Eric looks around at the sound of the shooting, fearing the

worst.  He pulls Corbett off the boardwalk and they cut

across open ground toward the airstrip depot.

205  INT.  HOT SPRINGS SPA

Kenai looks around at the messy RESULTS of LeMalle's

ransacking for things to wear.  Kenai turns, startled, when

he hears footsteps.  It's Neff and Meyerling.

205  CONTINUED:

206  EXT.  YARDS BEHIND AIRSTRIP DEPOT

Through the snow, Eric can see the faint outline of the

plane on the runway.  He and Corbett hurry toward the back

of the airstrip depot.

As they wend their way through the junk-filled yards, Eric

catches a glimpse of movement around a corner, REFLECTED in

a pane of glass leaning against a roll of tar paper.

206  CONTINUED:

ERIC'S POV - REFLECTION

Peacemaker in hand, Mitchell is behind the depot, coming

right for them.

WIDER

Eric takes out the homemade flashbomb.  He lights it, tosses

it toward Mitchell and covers his eyes.  It EXPLODES with a

muffled pop and a bright flash of white light.

Mitchell stumbles backwards and blinks his eyes.  The flash

has temporarily clouded his vision.

Eric moves Corbett to another approach to the depot and

waits for Mitchell to move on.

207  EXT.  REAR WALL OF AIRSTRIP DEPOT

Mitchell is about to do just that when a hand on his

shoulder stops him.  It's LeMalle, oblivious to the profuse

bleeding from his right shoulder.  Mitchell blinks, still

having trouble seeing.  LeMalle gestures for him to be quiet

and points in Eric and Corbett's direction.

He hoists his Remington.

But LeMalle is too anxious.  He swings the rifle up,

left-handed, and SHOOTS.

NEW ANGLE

The bullet just misses Eric.  He panics and wildly returns

FIRE with the .357.

208  EXT.  REAR WALL OF AIRSTRIP DEPOT

Mitchell and LeMalle scatter under the hail of bullets.

208  CONTINUED:

ANGLE ON ERIC AND CORBETT

as they HEAR LeMalle's labored footsteps run past them,

nearby.  Eric peers cautiously around the corner toward the

depot.  There is no further movement.

Eric waits a moment, then leads Corbett cautiously toward

the depot.

209  EXT.  REAR WALL OF AIRSTRIP DEPOT

Reaching the rear wall, they practically stumble over

something.  It's Mitchell, lying on the ground near the

wall, badly wounded by Eric's barrage.  Eric gasps.

Anguished, Corbett kneels next to Mitchell.  Mitchell pulls

him closer.

Mitchell's grasp on Corbett's coat relaxes as he dies.

Horrified, Eric stares at the man he killed.  Noticing the

scrimshaw lying on the snow where it slipped from Mitchell's

pocket, Corbett picks it up.

Glaring at Eric, Corbett dips his hand in Mitchell's blood,

and suddenly smears it across Eric's mouth.  Repelled, Eric

pulls back.

Wiping his face, sickened and desolate, Eric has no reply.

WIDER

Then, from somewhere close by, LeMalle FIRES at them.  Eric

stuffs the .357 in his belt and uses a brick to knock the

padlock off the back door of the depot.  He pushes Corbett

inside.

210  INT.  CARGO PLANE - COCKPIT

The pony-tailed, ex-hippie PILOT shuts his engines off and

removes his Walkman headphones.  Hearing LeMalle's

continuing GUNSHOTS, the Pilot pulls his door closed and

turns on his two-way radio.

With that, he STARTS his engines up again.

CUT TO ERIC IN DEPOT

who turns, startled, when he hears the ENGINES coughing to

life OS.

211  INT.  CARGO PLANE - COCKPIT

The Pilot fiddles with his controls and prepares to take

off.  He looks up, surprised, as the passenger door suddenly

opens.

WIDER

Anne Marie slides onto the seat.

Anne Marie points the .44 at him.

Shaking his head and muttering, the Pilot unfastens his seat

belt, climbs between the two seats to the cargo compartment,

and obliges the little lady with the big gun.

212  INT.  AIRSTRIP DEPOT

The depot, as temporary-looking as the rest of Devil's

Cauldron, is a boxcar-shaped loading dock and warehouse with

a corrugated steel roof.  Boxes, wood palettes and hand

dollies are piled haphazardly about.

Eric and Corbett navigate through the piles of boxes,

inching toward the front door -- the door leading to the

plane.

Suddenly, a string of overhead lights come on.  Eric goes

for the .357, then stops when he sees Meyerling, Kenai and

Neff have come in the front door.  Kenai stomps his feet and

shivers.  Grandstanding for the others, Meyerling steps

forward.

Meyerling pokes with his foot at a tipped-over rack of

Eskimo paraphernalia -- masks, furs, big skin drums, fish-

and bear-spears.

Meyerling moves toward Corbett, but Eric stands in his way.

212  CONTINUED:

Eric looks at Neff.

Kenai and Neff move in with Meyerling.  Eric stands his

ground and reaches for the .357 in his belt.

NEW ANGLE

Suddenly, LeMalle stumbles into the depot, the blankets and

furs dragging at his feet.  His right side is bathed in

blood.  Half-frozen, bled dry, he looks ready to drop down

dead.  In his left hand, impossibly, he still clutches the

massive Remington.

He hoists it to his hip and grits his teeth as he BOLTS a

round into the chamber with his injured right arm.  Bracing

himself, he levels the rifle at Eric.

Hearing the ACTION of the rifle, Eric turns.

Corbett reaches down, grabs a rusty Eskimo spear in both his

handcuffed hands, and hurls it.

There is a deafening ROAR as LeMalle's rifle discharges.

LeMalle flies back from the recoil -- and from the spear

stuck clear through his chest.

Some packing material above Eric's head smolders, ignited by

the muzzle blast.

NEW ANGLE

There is a moment of silence.  Corbett looks at the other

weapons near him, and then at Meyerling.  Threatened,

Meyerling pulls out a .380 automatic.  Before Eric can do

anything, Meyerling FIRES.

The IMPACT of the bullet throws Corbett against some boxes.

212  CONTINUED:  (2)

With a YELL, Eric jumps Meyerling and rips the gun from his

grasp.  Enraged, he pummels Meyerling with it until Kenai

and Neff pull them apart.  Eric wrenches away from them and

scrambles to his feet with Meyerling's gun in his hand.

Holding the .380 on them, Eric crosses to Corbett.  Bleeding

from the abdomen, he's trying to stand up.

Cautiously backing away from the others, Eric helps Corbett

get up and shuffle toward the OS SOUND of the cargo plane.

213  EXT.  DEVIL'S CAULDRON - AIRSTRIP

Anne Marie jumps down from the cockpit.  She and Eric lift

Corbett into the plane.

214  EXT.  CARGO PLANE

as it taxis and lifts off.

215  INT.  CARGO PLANE - (AERIAL SHOT)

While Eric takes Corbett's handcuffs off, Anne Marie looks

at his wound.  He waves her away.

215  CONTINUED:

He painfully pulls himself into a sitting position.

Too tired to argue, Corbett leans back against the window.

He takes Mitchell's scrimshaw out of his pocket and looks at

it.

EXTREME CLOSE UP - THE SCRIMSHAW

The exquisitely beautiful and detailed engraving depicts a

grizzly beside a wilderness creek, with trees and mountains

in the background.

CORBETT

clutches the scrimshaw in his hand and closes his eyes.

NEW ANGLE - (AERIAL SHOT)

Eric sighs as he looks at the blood -- Mitchell's blood --

on the back of his hand.  He stares at Corbett for a long

moment.  Then, resolved, he climbs up front and says

something to the Pilot.  Grumbling, the Pilot adjusts his

controls.

216  EXT.  HAUL ROAD - PUMPING STATION - DAY

The snow clouds are dissipating.  The cargo plane comes down

through them and lands on the airstrip behind the pumping

station.

217  INT.  CARGO PLANE

As it rolls to a stop, Eric throws open the cargo door.

Corbett sits up, surprised.  He and Eric exchange a long

look, then Corbett crosses to the open door and gingerly

steps down onto the snow-covered runway.

218  EXT.  CARGO PLANE

Eric and Anne Marie watch from the door of the plane as

Corbett limps across the runway toward the treeline.  As he

goes, his footprints are dusted over by the snow and wind.

Corbett stops, turns and looks back at Eric, then continues

onward, disappearing into the forest.

ANGLE ON CARGO PLANE

Eric closes the cargo door as the Pilot turns the plane

around and taxis back down the runway.

219  INT.  CARGO PLANE - (AERIAL SHOT)

Eric wearily sits next to Anne Marie.  She kisses him.

The Pilot glances over his shoulder and frowns.

220  INT.  CARGO PLANE - ANGLE THROUGH WINDOW - (AERIAL SHOT)

The plane climbs above the fog and snow clouds into a sunny,

ice blue sky.  It banks and turns south.  Behind it, the

mountains roll on toward the Arctic wasteland, forever.

<!--Ad Banner

function popupPage() {

<b>}

</b>

popupPage();

//  Ad Banner-->

