FADE IN:

PERFECT SQUARE OF BLACK

We know that we are looking at something because its

polished surface shimmers with light.

PULLING BACK, other squares are revealed; the black and

white tiles of a chess board.

The board rises and spins, slipping beneath us we find

ourselves MOVING ACROSS the board, MOVING THROUGH a chess

game.

The pieces are everywhere, checking and covering other

pieces.  It has reached that critical moment when pieces

are traded and the board begins to clear as two strategies

unravel towards a final outcome.

Standing above the pieces around him, we see the black

king.

We MOVE CLOSER TOWARDS his face, CLOSER TO his chiseled

ebony features, CLOSER UNTIL we are staring into his cold

black eyes...

EXT. MARSH - SUNGLASSES - DUSK

The red setting sun is reflected in the black lens.

Two men are tromping through the calf-deep mud of an end-

less marsh.  It is fall, the first frost not far away and

the foliage is brown and bare.  With the red-orange ball

of fire melting into the horizon, the two men at first

appear as only silhouettes or shadows slogging through the

mire.

The man with the sunglasses walks behind the other man.

He is very well-dressed in a dark suit.  A .22 caliber

gun, fitted with a long silencer, dangles from his hand.

His name is ROBERT RATH.

The other man is WILLIE KETCHAM.  He is also wearing a

very expensive suit though it is being destroyed by the

brambles and mud.

As he lifts his foot his Gucci shoe is sucked off by the

mud.

He balances on one leg, holding his silk-socked foot in

the air.  He looks at the shoe, already filling with mud.

He looks at Rath.

About a half mile further into the thickening marsh there

is a small cluster of trees.

He pulls his sock off and plunges his foot into the mud.

He smiles.  It feels good.  He hurls the sock.  Lifting

his other foot he pulls his shoe off and hurls that.  He

grabs for the other sock, struggling to get it off,

laughing at himself as he slips and falls into the mud.

Rath waits, a faint smile.

He manages to get the sock off and then stands digging

both feet into the dark, wet earth.

They move on, Ketcham almost playing, sinking his feet

deep pulling them out to make a SPLURCHING, SUCKING NOISE.

He picks up a handful of mud and begins shaping it like a

snowball.

He throws the mud ball at the grove of trees but they are

too far.

Ketcham laughs.

Ketcham laughs again.  He is getting kind of giggly, like

he's high.

Something occurs to him and he looks back at Rath.

He's 'laughing' and Rath laughs with him.  Ketcham suddenly

stops laughing.  They are nearly to the cluster of trees.

He looks at the trees, his voice dying in the WIND.

Ketcham smiles and looks around at the grove of birch

trees.

He looks at the sun, bloody red seeping into the black

horizon.

Ketcham stares at the last of the light.

With his face hidden from Rath he begins to cry.

Rath watches Ketcham staring at the setting sun.  Rath

looks down at the gun limply held in his hand.

When the sun is gone, a red glow at the bottom of a dark-

ening sky, we hear the GUN, SILENCED, ONCE, then the BODY

FALLING INTO THE MUD.  After a beat we hear TWO MORE

SHOTS.

Ketcham is lying face down, already sinking into the mud,

a red cloud mushrooming around his head like the red haze

left by the dying sun.

Rath breathes in deep and lets the air out slowly, stand-

ing alone in the middle of nowhere.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

The room is dark and still.

A man is standing at a wall of windows that glow from the

amber wash of urban light.

Snow is falling, heavy white flakes glittering in the

city's electric night.

The man finishes his bourbon, ICE CLINKING in the empty

glass.  He is slightly drunk and he sways forward until

his forehead rests against the window.

In the dim light, we recognize the man as Rath.

Outside there is a beautiful stone church decorated for

Christmas.  He watches the snowflakes drift to the

distant street below.

He is wondering what it would feel like to let himself

fall, when there is a KNOCK at the door.

Crossing the room, he opens the door.  Backlit by the

bright hallway light is a WOMAN.  She has already removed

her coat and though she is only a silhouette we can see

that her dress is very short and very tight.

Her HIGH HEELS TAP against the tile foyer as she enters

and he takes her coat.

She reaches for the wall switch but he stops her.

He smiles.

She moves closer to him, the sexual confidence of her

body radiating like heat.

Rath is obviously uncomfortable.

They move into the room, from a distance, as featureless

as two shadows.

She stands at the windows watching the snow-bubble of a

city night.

He hands her the drink.  Her smile is bright and perfect.

Their glasses clink as he drains half his drink.  If she

drinks at all, we can not tell.

She touches his face, the caress and her expression of

tenderness seemingly genuine.

Her hand slides down his chest, but before it goes any

farther Rath turns away, returning to the bar.

He pours himself another drink.

She sits on the couch, her body language changing, as she

becomes a listener.

He sits on the other end of the couch, his words thickened

by the alcohol.

He takes out an envelope and puts it between them.  She

picks it up, glancing inside at a stack of hundred

dollar bills.

She puts the envelope down.

Uncomfortable, she waits as he searches his drink for

the right words.

Rath nods.  His next question is barely audible.

For the first time we really see her take a drink.  She

closes her eyes.

She opens her eyes and looks at him.

She smiles.

Rath nods.

She finishes her drink.

She picks up the money and stands.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

It is the same room but now it is very cluttered, room

service trays and empty liquor bottles tossed about.

He has been here for a while.

He is sitting at the table, staring intensely at a chess

game; we see the board and all of the pieces set in the

same positions as in the opening sequence.

He rubs at the whiskers that have darkened his face and

then finishes off another bottle of bourbon.

He flings the empty bottle across the room as he reaches

over the board and moves one of white knights, taking a

black rook.

A sequence begins, obvious, and he works through it moving

both the black and white pieces.  Suddenly he stops.  He

gets up and shifts to the other side of the board,

studying the game from white's perspective.

Another sequence emerges and he trades the pieces through

it as he moves around the table, returning to his place

behind the black king.

The games reaches its end as black is check-mated.

He slumps down onto the table and looks across at the

white king.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAWN

Rath is at a desk where he has set up his computer

office; a cellular phone is plugged into a modem with

cables winding through a scrambler and then into a fax

machine and the latest high-powered lap-top computer.

On the table near the desk, we see the .22, dismantled

and cleaned, spread out on a white towel.

He types in a complicated access code sequence, then

waits, staring at the blank screen.

He looks away from the screen and sees the chess game on

the table.

On the screen the word "Transmitting" appears.  Rath

slowly gets out of his chair.

The FAX MACHINE CLICKS and HUXS to life as a photograph

of a smiling, old Italian man curls onto the desk.

Rath begins destroying the hotel room, smashing anything

he can get his hands on.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - DAY

Rath is in the middle of the room which he has

demolished.  Having showered and shaved, he is now

standing naked, in the midst of the rubble, practicing

the slow and graceful art of Tai Chi.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Rath is working at the desk.  He is tallying numbers,

materials, totaling his estimate.

Spread out over the table are several faxed photos of

the old Italian, Leevio Valli, usually surrounded by

bodyguards.

The file details Valli's life and his daily routine.  It

includes:  phone bills, credit card and bank account

statements, driver license and vehicle registration, the

real estate listing of his house and even a copy of his

income tax return.

Satisfied with his figures, Rath plugs the phone into the

modem and makes a call.

The network comes on-line as the General Contractor

types:

Rath types.

Rath stares at the screen.

The name hits Rath and he sits, unable to breathe.

The screen goes black as the network shuts down.

Rath looks down at the pile of assembled facts.  He lifts

a credit card bill on which the name of a restaurant

appears every Friday.  The name of the restaurant has been

circled in red pen by Rath:  "Trattoria Roma."

EXT. TRATTORIA ROMA - NIGHT

A red awning spans the entrance of a popular Italian

restaurant.

INT. TRATTORIA ROMA

It is a large establishment with many tables and booths.

The dinner crowd is a mix of yuppies and older Italian

families who have been eating here for years.

Rath is sitting alone at a booth.  With very subtle

changes to his appearance, he looks like an older Italian.

In front of him is a glass and a carafe of dark red wine.

He touches neither of them.  His eyes shift as he studies

the room.

LEEVIO VALLI pushes into the restaurant surrounded by five

gorillas in Italian suits.  The owner hurries to greet

them, hugging, kissing, speaking only Italian.

The entourage moves through the restaurant to the over-

sized booth in the back.

Rath does not look twice at them.  Immediately he is

watching everyone else, looking for the other assassin.

Leevio slides into the booth as his goons stand and sit

around the table, obscuring him from all parts of the

room.

A wine steward immediately brings a bottle of red wine and

fills their glasses.  A pretty waitress sets a steaming

loaf of garlic bread out and a giant bowl of minestrone in

front of Leevio.  He tells her something and she giggles.

They joke in Italian, watching her ass as she wiggles back

to the kitchen.

At Leevio's table the wine steward returns to fill their

glasses.

It is the goon standing against the wall that is the first

to realize that it is not the same wine steward.  He is

the second assassin, much younger than Rath.  His name is

BAIN.  He smiles.

The goon reaches for his gun as --

Bain SHATTERS the BOTTLE of wine into his face.  He

screams.

Leevio coughs a spray of minestrone, as a GUN flashes free

from the white linen towel hung over the steward's arm.

It happens instantly.  FOUR SHOTS and the goons are dead.

Leevio screams.

A FIFTH, SIXTH and SEVENTH SHOT.

Leevio's body falls forward and softly thuds on the table.

Bain whips around drawing a small SEMI-AUTOMATIC WEAPON

from his belt expecting an attack.

Facing the screaming crowd, he begins to SHOOT anyone who

moves or stands, men or women.

There is chaos in the restaurant.  People scream, falling

to the ground, scrambling under tables.

Bain is sweating, his eyes shifting wildly from one end of

the room to the other.

The restaurant falls quiet except for several people who

are sobbing.

He moves through the room, watching, searching.

He passes the table Rath was sitting at, but it is empty.

EXT. CONCRETE PARKING GARAGE

Across the street from Trattoria Roma, Rath jacks together

a German assault rifle with night scope.

INT. TRATTORIA ROMA

Bain looks out the window at the dark street.

He turns and searches through the people huddled on the

floor.  He aims his gun.

A quivering wine steward stands.

He points to another.

EXT. PARKING GARAGE

THROUGH the NIGHT SCOPE we see the front door to the

restaurant open and a group of wine stewards clumped

together slowly back out.

INT. TRATTORIA ROMA

Bain is second from the end, both guns aimed at the

stewards.

One of them begins to cry.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath moves the scope back and forth, unable to pick out

the assassin.

He can't pull the trigger.

EXT. TRATTORIA STOREFRONT

The group moves toward the street.

Like dogs out of the gate, they bolt.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath watches as they scatter, finding Bain in his scope.

EXT. STREET

A chunk of BRICK EXPLODES from the wall just behind Bain's

head as he drops behind the row of parked cars along the

curb.  He laughs.  We get the idea that Bain is enjoying

this.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath looks over his scope, talking to himself.  He is

sweating.

He looks back into the scope and begins scanning the line

of cars.

EXT. CITY STREET

Bain is crawling alongside the tightly parked cars,

staying low and out of sight.

He works his way up to a black Mercedes that is parked

illegally next to a fire hydrant and takes out his keys.

He hits the remote unlocking the doors.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath finds the fire hydrant in his scope, almost obscured

by the parked Mercedes.

He takes aim.

EXT. CITY STREET

Just as Bain starts to open the door, the front TIRE

EXPLODES.  Another second, the back TIRE EXPLODES.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath waits, steely calm, his finger on the trigger.

EXT. CITY STREET

Bain hears the growing wail of POLICE SIRENS.  Thinking

for a moment, he opens the car door and pulls a long

handled switchblade and a roll of electrician's tape from

the glove compartment.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath sees the car light go on, but can't make out what

Bain is doing.  The SIRENS are GETTING LOUDER.  There's a

lot of them.

EXT. CITY STREET

Bain finishes taping the knife to his forearm and rolls

his shirt sleeve down.  From his pocket he takes out a

Gameboy and begins playing "Tetris."

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath watches as the police cars come racing down the

street.

EXT. CITY STREET

The CARS SCREECH to a halt in front of the restaurant.

The COPS jump out, drawing their weapons.

Bain throws his guns down, raising his hands in the air.

More CARS come SCREECHING up as the two officers hold

their beads on Bain.

Bain follows the orders as the second cop edges up to him,

frisking him.  In this position the Cop is unable to find

the knife strapped to Bain's forearm, but finds the

Gameboy.

The Cop twists Bain's arms behind his back, handcuffing

him tightly.

They drag him to his feet, a swarm of police and

paramedics in the street.

INT. PARKING GARAGE

Rath holds them in his cross hairs as they move to the

police car, but is unable to get a clean shot.  Bain is

using the cops for cover, keeping his head low.

The Cops shove Bain into the back seat.

Rath very quickly walks to his car, tossing his gun into

the trunk.  He gets in and STARTS the ENGINE.

INT. PATROL CAR

The two Officers are outside the car talking with the

sergeant.

Bain, laying low beneath the windows, peeks up at the

shadowy parking garage.  He smiles.

The two Policemen get in the car, the second picking up

the radio.  The driver GUNS the ENGINE and the black and

white RUMBLES down the street.

He hangs up the radio and looks back at Bain through the

metal caging.

Bain almost laughs.

Bain looks out the window.

Bain looks at him.

He laughs at his own joke, looking at his partner, who

chuckles.

EXT. CITY STREET

Rath's car races down the street trying to catch up with

the patrol car.

INT. PATROL CAR

Bain stares out the window, silent.

Behind his back, he takes hold of his left thumb with his

right hand.

The Cop is playing with the Gameboy.

With a quick jerk, he yanks the thumb out of its socket.

His expression remains perfectly blank.

The thumb hangs unnaturally from the hand.  The skin

stretches strangely as he pulls the metal cuff from his

wrist.

The Cop turns as the SWITCHBLADE CLICKS and Bain sticks

the knife through the wire mesh, into the cop's eye.  A

font of blood arcs onto the windshield.

Grabbing hold of the driver's shirt collar, Bain jabs the

blade into the back of his neck.

The driver screams trying to pull free of Bain's grip.

He slams on the brakes, groping for his gun and the CAR

SKIDS out of control.

Bain stabs the Cop again, his GUN FIRING WILDLY as --

The patrol car starts to flip and roll.

INT. RATH'S CAR

Rath turns as he hears an EXPLOSION, several blocks away.

The TIRES SQUEAL as he makes a hard right.

EXT. STREET

Orange flames lick up from the belly of the overturned

patrol car.  Oil black clouds billow into the night sky.

Rath's car cruises past.

Rath sees the back seat window shattered, kicked out.

Bain is gone.

EXT. CITY STREET INTERSECTION

A brand new cab is sitting at a red light.

The cabby looks into the rearview mirror, as a pair of

headlights roll up behind him.  The car gets closer, the

lights brighter; they don't stop.

He shrieks as the CAR SMASHES INTO HIS, TEARING OFF HIS

BUMPER.

The cabby jumps out, rattling off a string of obscenities.

Rath gets out of the white car, starting to apologize, as

the cabby moves toward him.

When he's close enough, Rath decks him, knocking him

unconscious.

He picks him up and puts him in the white car.

Rath then gets in the cab and when the light changes to

green, he drives off.

INT. CAB

Rath circles the area, turning up the cab's CB.

A couple of CALLS CRACKLE through the speaker, before he

hears what he's waiting for; an airport fare in this area.

At the intersection of Adams and Nine.

He picks up the mike.

EXT. ADAMS AND NINE

It is a deserted intersection.  The buildings are dark and

some of the street lights are out.

The cab sits by itself, ENGINE RUNNING, its taillights

glowing through the exhaust.

INT. CAB

Rath holds his gun cocked beneath his coat.  His other

hand grips the door handle.

As he waits, watching the intersection, he notices the

cabby's ID pinned to the dashboard.

Leaving the gun in his jacket, he reaches for the ID card.

He rips it from the dash and as he drops it under the

seat, the door behind him opens.  Someone gets in and

closes the door.  Rath peers into the rearview mirror.

It is Bain.

For the first time we realize that the front and back of

the cab is separated by an inch of bullet proof glass.

There is an awkward silence as Rath sits, unsure.

Bain looks at him.

The cab pulls out of the intersection.

INT. CAB

Rath studies Bain.  There is a thin line of blood down his

temple.  Bain is oblivious to it and pulls out his

Gameboy, resuming his game of Tetris.

Their voices are distorted through the small electric

amplifier set in the bullet proof glass near the metal

money exchanger.

Bain touches the blood on his forehead, looking at it a

bit surprised.

He wipes it off as best he can.

Bain is uninterested.

Bain is getting agitated.

Silence.

Bain looks up.

Bain allows himself a bemused smile.

The cab passes the intersection for the airport.

Bain sits up.

Rath pulls over and slaps the cab in park.

Bain can't figure out what is wrong, when he sees the

dashboard and the missing ID.

Their eyes meet in the rearview mirror.

The cab rocks as both men move.  Instantly guns fill their

hands.  Bain ripping out a .357 lifted from one of the

dead cops.  Rath rolls to the side whipping the gun free

from his jacket.

Bain throws open the door, about to run, but stops.  He

looks at Rath.  He wants him to run.  Anyone who moves

away from the bullet proof glass is dead.

Both men are silent, each holding the other in their gun

sights.

Bain blinks, sweat forming on his lip.

Bain reaches over and closes the door.  He smiles knowing

it is the right move.

Rath calmly uncocks his gun.

Bain nods.

Bain thinks.

He points his gun at the floor where the fuel line runs.

Bain sits back, aiming his gun, watching Rath.

Rath eases back into the driver's seat, also holding his

gun on the fuel line.

He puts the car into drive and slides back into traffic,

turning back towards Peterson.

They sit in silence, studying each other, when they hit

the expressway.  Bain can't contain himself, giddy on

adrenaline.

He laughs.

He laughs again.

He leans back.  This is a big moment for him.

Something occurs to him and he leans close to the window.

He laughs hard.

He stops laughing and looks closely at the back of Rath's

head.

Rath studies him.

Bain chokes on his laugh.

Rath does not answer.  Bain smiles.  He knows something

about Rath now; he doesn't like killing innocent people.

He holds his gun up to the bulletproof glass behind Rath's

head.

He laughs.

Rath says nothing.

Bain moves close to the glass again, checking out Rath's

gun.

He looks at the gun, still trained at the floor.

Rath does not have to answer.

Rath says nothing.

The car passes under a sign indicating the ramp for the

Cleveland airport.

A long beat of silence.

The CAB RUMBLES up onto the "departures" ramp which

circles past all of the terminals.

He throws off his seatbelt.

Rath doesn't answer, studying the terminals, noting the

police and airport security.

Rath studies the terrain.  Bain studies Rath.

Soon they have passed the entire airport.  Rath nods.

Steering the car through traffic in onto a circle

interchange that will bring them to the beginning.

Bain wipes the sweat from his face.

Rath begins to accelerate, rounding the interchange.

Bain laughs.

The speedometer continues to climb.

Rath says nothing.  Ahead, at the ramp to the terminals,

is the sand barricade.

The cab is flying at its target.

Bain looks at him and then at the barricade.

The barricade hurtles toward them, rising up, filling the

windshield.

Bain screams, throwing open the door and hurling himself

out.

Rath jams on the brakes, TIRES SCREAMING, steering into

the steel side rail, banking the car into the drums of

sand as --

Bain hits the pavement, bouncing like a stone skipped

across water.

A driver hits his brakes, swerving, just missing him.

SAND EXPLODES from the impact and the cab bounces up over

the median into the bus-only lanes as the driver's airbag

balloons out of the steering wheel.

Bain rolls and rolls, finally stopping sprawled out like a

piece of roadkill.

The cab careens up onto a curb, slamming into a pole, the

radiator spitting out a cloud of WHISTLING STEAM.

Several cars lock up and collide to avoid Bain; one car

stopping inches from him.  A woman jumps out, rushing to

the front of the car, but Bain is gone.

Police CARS ROAR up into the midst of the accident.  One

of them pulling alongside the demolished cab.  The door is

open, the airbag popped.  Rath is gone.

EXT. APARTMENT BUILDING - DAY

A large six flat leans out from a hill in San Francisco.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT - DAY

The apartment is always dark; heavy drapes cover the

windows.

The dining and living rooms look like the control booth of

a network television show, stacks of video monitors and

consoles, cables, electric wiring, coils of fiber optic

cord duct-taped to the floors, walls and ceilings.  They

snake through holes punched in the plaster walls and hang

everywhere like some technological jungle.

At the center of this tangled web is ELECTRA, a beautiful

athletic looking woman wearing only her underwear and a

worn robe.  She is curled up in an overstuffed chair, a

bowl of popcorn in her lap.

On the monitors, she is watching what at first might be

mistaken for a soap opera; a young couple are having an

argument.

What is strange is that the angle never changes; a fish-

eye lens staring down into the room.

Jennifer is too stunned to say anything.  There is a long

pause that is not at all like television.  It seems very

real.

She starts to say something, but stops, trying to keep

herself from crying.

Electra lifts her head, smelling the air.

Nikita, Electra's black cat, is stretched lazily across

the top of a chair, her tail twitching absently.  Every

corner of the chair has been clawed open.

Electra reaches for the control board and throws a series

of switches.

The monitors flicker as the image changes.  We are now

looking down into a kitchen.  A stove is beneath us,

almost like a cooking show, where a round woman is taking

out a tray of chocolate chip cookies.

Electra smells them again, smiling as she inhales.

There is a BANG, a DOOR SLAMMING in another apartment, and

a MAN YELLING.

Electra switches back to Jennifer's apartment.

The man is still in the living room, but Jennifer is gone.

Electra punches a command into a keyboard.  Several of the

screens change, showing different rooms of the same

apartment.  Jennifer is in the bedroom, lying on the bed

sobbing, her face buried in a pillow.

We hear the front DOOR SLAM in the hall outside of

Electra's apartment and through the monitor speakers.  His

stomping FOOTSTEPS FADE as he storms down the hall and

staircase out of the building.

Electra switches all of the screens to Jennifer.

She watches and listens to her cry alone in her bedroom.

Electra reaches out; her fingers lightly touch the monitor

screen.

INT. APARTMENT HALL

Electra's front door opens slowly.  Timidly, she steps out

of her apartment and walks down the hall until she is

standing in front of Jennifer's door.

She starts to knock, but stops herself.  She isn't sure

she should do this.

She paces, then turns to the door.

She knocks, so softly it's almost impossible to hear.

She stands, trying to force herself to knock again, when

she hears Jennifer.

Electra panics.

The door knob turns, the door opens and JENNIFER looks out

into the hall.  It is empty.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT

On the monitors, Electra watches Jennifer pick up the

phone.

Electra's PAGER suddenly SOUNDS.  She shuts down the

screens and pulls out the pager, checking the number.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT

There is a system set up that is not unlike Rath's system;

all of the same components, though the equipment is

bigger, more powerful and less portable.

On a table there is a bank of phones, several cellular.

Electra is talking on one.

Electra is fiddling with five plastic computer disks; each

has a MicroCell trademark and is labeled "Back-Up."

She hangs up.

INT. LOBBY

Electra comes down the stairs.

Outside the large glass door she sees KEN, Jennifer's

boyfriend, leaving.

On the lobby floor is a letter, apparently slipped under

the door, addressed to Jennifer Morgan.

Electra looks out the front door window, making sure that

Ken is gone.

She picks up the letter and stuffs it into her pocket.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

Rath is at his computer system.

He is staring at it, like it is a living thing, a person

that he despises, the blank screen reflecting his own

face.  It is an effort to bring himself to touch the

keyboard, to type in his code.

He waits.

Rath wants to type something but hesitates.

Rath jumps out of his chair, screaming at the screen.

Rath turns from the monitor, pacing.  Trying to collect

himself.

He looks at the chess board.  He hovers over it, the

pattern completely familiar.

Rath turns back to the screen, speaking as he types.

A long beat.

Rath still talking and typing.

Rath stands, no longer typing.

Rath takes out his gun and levels it at the face of the

screen.

Rath looks at the number.

Rath puts the gun down.

The FAX MACHINE COMES TO LIFE, printing an inky image.

Rath looks at the fax; almost entirely black except for

the wide, slit-iris cat eyes.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY

There is a SCREECH and BLAST of ENGINES as a 747 touches

down, heat rising off the tarmac.

INT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY

Several passengers walk through the gate into the

terminal.

Across from the gate, Rath sits in a grungy airport

cafeteria, reading a folded paper.

He is wearing an airport security uniform, a gun holstered

to his side.

Taped inside the newspaper is a faxed Interpol photograph

of a Japanese man wanted for "industrial espionage."

At the gate, five Japanese men emerge.  Leading the group

is the man in Rath's photo.  The other four are obviously

muscle.

Rath watches as they walk down the crowded terminal hall.

When they are almost out of sight, he folds his newspaper

and begins to follow.

His pace and manner is that of a cautious predator.  His

focus shifts continually from face to face, expecting to

find Bain's.

His hand hovers near his gun.

Ahead of him a thin young man, wearing a long blue trench

coat, stops.  Rath cannot see his face.

The man starts toward a drinking fountain.

Rath catches a glimpse of his face.  It could be Bain, but

he isn't sure.

The young man bends over and slurps at the stream of

water.  He rises into the barrel of Rath's .22.

A mouthful of water coughs from his mouth.

It is not Bain and in the next instant, the gun is gone.

Rath continues.  They young man is unable to move.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO AIRPORT - DAY

The five men stride through the automated terminal doors

and towards a waiting limousine.

Further down, Rath, now wearing a black T-shirt and jeans,

exits and hails a cab.

INT. CAB

Rath sits back studying the faces exiting the terminal as

the cab pulls away.

INT. LIMOUSINE

The five men sit in silence.  Strangely, a PHONE begins to

RING.

The older man, whose name is AKIRA, opens his briefcase,

removing a cellular phone.

We hear Electra's voice.  She speaks in Japanese; he uses

English.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Electra is pacing, talking into the cellular phone.

She punches a button and shoves the antennae down.

The hotel room looks like her apartment.  There is a

computer and a series of monitors stacked on top of the

wood laminate desk.  Cables whip and wind across the

carpeted floor to the central air duct.

The panel has been removed and intertwined black and gray

coaxial run up inside the duct.

Immediately, Electra is busy finishing her preparations.

She snaps in several power cords and the system comes on-

line.

On the monitor screen, we see an empty hotel room that

looks exactly like the one she is in.

INT. CAB

Rath stares out the window, watching the surrounding

traffic, the limo still in sight.

Something occurs to him and he looks down at the folded

newspaper where he had hid the contract file.

He flips past several documents before finding what he's

looking for; the cat.

He pulls the dark fax of Nikita and stares at it.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Laying on the bed, in a patch of sunlight, Nikita watches

Electra rush about.

Electra grabs the sheet from under the comforter and yanks

it out.

Nikita casually walks off the bed.

Electra takes the sheet to the open duct and tears off a

long piece of duct-tape.

EXT. HYATT HOTEL

The limousine pulls up in the lavish circular driveway.

The cab pulls in behind it.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra checks her watch and picks up the cellular phone.

INT. HYATT LOBBY

The Japanese men stand in a cluster looking very rigid and

uncomfortable.

The BRIEFCASE RINGS.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra is pacing again.

INT. HYATT LOBBY

With several other guests, the Japanese men crowd into an

elevator.  The doors close.

Across the lobby, Rath enters, walking past the elevators.

INT. ELEVATOR

As the elevator rises, we begin to hear a SOUND, a

familiar sound.

Cramped in the corner is Bain.  He is PLAYING "TETRIS,"

wearing dark sunglasses and a WALKMAN PUMPING SPEED METAL

into his ears.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra continues to pace, checking the monitors.

INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN

At the switchboard, a YOUNG HOTEL EMPLOYEE wearing an

operator's headset, takes a late breakfast order, typing

the order in the hotel computer.

He turns around and Rath is right behind him.

INT. ELEVATOR

The fourteenth floor; the BELL CHIMES, the doors slide

open and the clump of Japanese men get out.

Just as the doors begin to close, Bain steps out.

INT. HALL

Bain follows them down the hall, still PLAYING the GAME.

There is again an ominous sense of predator moving in on

its prey.

As Akira finds 1414 and opens the door, another door burst

open, a large family, heading for the pool.

The moment is gone; the Japanese men close the door and

Bain continues down the hall again, PLAYING the GAME.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

When the Japanese men enter the suite, we realize that

this is the image on Electra's monitors.  Surveillance

camcorders and microphones are mounted in various

locations to display every inch of the room.  The group

hesitates for a moment, under the electronic eyes.

The four goons have their hands in their jackets.

A small LAPTOP COMPUTER sits on the coffee table HUMMING

SOFTLY.  It is the only noise in the room until a speaker

crackles.

INT. ROOM SERVICE KITCHEN

The operator is unconscious, slumped in the corner.

Rath studies the hotel computer screen intently, the

information rolling by.

We see that it is the previous night's room service

receipts.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra stands in front of the monitors watching the men

as she speaks into the microphone.

On the monitor, we see Akira at the coffee table shove the

first disk into the laptop disk drive.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Akira turns from the small computer screen and nods at a

goon, who drops a green brick of bound one hundred dollar

bills, down the central air duct.

The little clock on the laptop ticks away as it copies.

INT. HYATT HALL

Bain is sitting on a bench entrenched in a fevered game of

"TETRIS."

Suddenly, he stops.

The display of the game reads "Game Over" and

congratulates Bain on a new high score.

Bain stands, smiling.  He puts the game in his pocket and

starts down the hall.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra is crouched at the open duct, grabbing another

stack of money, stuffing it into her bag.

A LOUD BANG EXPLODES out of the SPEAKERS and she looks up

at the monitor.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

The lock on the door has been broken and standing in the

frame is Bain.

He raises his arm, his GUN spitting SILENT BULLETS.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra stares in horror at the monitors as Bain grabs the

nearest bodyguard, FIRING a SHOT into his belly.

INT. HOTEL SUITE

Another SHOT and the second bodyguard falls.  The other

two draw their handguns and Bain shields himself with the

lifeless body of his first victim.

They FIRE at Bain but are unable to hit him.

Bain squeezes off TWO MORE SHOTS and the two men fall

dead.  He lets his human shield fall to the ground and

levels his gun on the shaking Akira.

Bain looks at him and smiles, then FIRES.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra leaps at the computer, ripping the cord from the

modem.

Bain sees the fiber optic cable and looks right into it.

He licks the lens, leaving a smear of saliva.

She stuffs the disks into her bag.  She puts Nikita in her

"travel kitty" and charges for the door, grabbing her

coat.

Flinging it over her shoulder, she does not notice the

letter from Ken slip out of her pocket as she bolts from

the room.

INT. HALL

Electra explodes through the door and suddenly freezes.

She is staring down the barrel of Rath's .22.

The elevator behind Rath opens and closes against a hotel

lobby ashtray.  He waves her into the elevator with his

gun.

EXT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY

Electra's black CAR ROARS out of the garage, onto the open

street.

INT. HYATT HOTEL - DAY

The door swings open.  From the hall we can hear the

familiar BEEPING of the COMPUTER GAME.  The room, 1014, is

the same as Electra had left it when she ran out.

Jutting from a shadow on the floor is the corner of Ken's

letter.

INT. ELECTRA'S CAR

Electra drives, obviously nervous, as Rath watches out the

rear window.

No one follows.  He turns back to her.

He checks his watch.

Rath sets the timer on his watch for five hours.

INT. HYATT HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Bain has returned to room 1414.  Wearing rubber gloves, he

clicks open a black leather attache and pulls out a can of

rug cleaner.

He picks up the phone for room service.

Behind him, in the bathroom mirror, we see one of the

Japanese men hanging from the shower by his feet.  He is

naked.

He hangs up the phone and walks over to one of the large

blood stains on the carpet.  He points the rug cleaner at

the stain covering it with white foam.

INT. ELECTRA'S CAR

Rath sees the entrance for the expressway.

Rath glances back.

Electra turns onto the highway and NIKITA HOWLS from the

"travel kitty" in the back seat.

NIKITA wants out and HOWLS again.

Rath reaches back and opens the box.  Nikita springs into

the front seat onto Rath's lap.

She studies his face, his eyes.

Electra pounds the steering wheel.

He reaches into the back seat, grabbing her bag.

Rath plucks out the bundles of money.

Electra seems ready to jump out of her skin.  The

speedometer is floating around 90.

He pulls out the disks.

Electra wants to scream.  The speedometer is climbing over

100.

INT. HOTEL SUITE - NIGHT

The room is immaculate; near the door, several over-sized

suitcases line the wall.

Bain is sitting at the desk.  His WALKMAN is on, MUSIC

BLASTING, as he flips casually through the telephone

directory.

His finger eases down a column stopping at "Morgan

Jennifer."

There is a KNOCK at the door.

He smiles and tears out the page.

There is another, LOUDER KNOCK which Bain hears this time.

He TURN OFF the WALKMAN and opens the door; a BELLBOY is

waiting with a luggage cart.

Bain gives him a wink and a smile.

INT. ELECTRA'S CAR - NIGHT

The red "low fuel" light is on.

Electra twists the ignition and the CAR DIES.  Rath

glances around and we see the car is parked in a gas

station.

Electra says nothing.

He reaches over and takes the car keys.

When he is out of the car, Electra slowly releases the

strangle-hold she had on the steering wheel.

Electra checks the rear view mirror, listening as Rath

pumps the gas.  Her eyes flash down to her bag.

Outside, Rath watches Electra through the windows.  She

appears motionless.

The electric gas counter races like a stop watch.

In the car, Electra eases her hand into her bag.

The tank full, Rath re-hangs the pump.  He walks around

the car and heads for the station.

Electra waits until his back is turned.  She pulls her

tool pouch from her bag, throws it open and finds her wire

stripper.  Reaching under the dash, she yanks out a

tangled handful of wire.

She looks up; Rath is inside paying.

Her fingers fly with surgical precision, snipping,

stripping, twisting.

Rath steps out of the station as her head pops up, looking

for him.  It takes only a second for him to realize what

she is doing.

He runs at the car as she strips the last set of wires and

strikes them; the BATTERY GRINDS.

He is almost there when the ENGINE FIRES.  She stomps on

the gas, ramming the shift into drive.

TIRES SQUEALING, the car swerves forward as Rath slams

into it.  He bounces backward, falling to the ground.

The car fishtails away, accelerating as Rath rolls to one

knee, his gun automatically in his hand.  He draws a bead,

but, he does not shoot.

With a concerted effort, he puts the gun away.

EXT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Electra's car is parked out front.

She unlocks the lobby door and drags herself inside.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT LOBBY

Standing at the mailboxes flipping through her mail is

Jennifer Morgan.  What she was hoping for is not there.

She looks up and sees Electra.

Electra stops.

Electra nods.

Electra is in a daze, her hand moving into her pocket.

Electra's mouth opens and she backs away.  Jennifer is

bothered by her reaction and she doesn't push it.

She shrugs and unlocks the interior door, leaving Electra

in the lobby.

Electra watches her, as her hand moves from pocket to

pocket.

A worried expression tightens her face; the letter is

gone.

She opens the interior door, following Jennifer up the

stairs.

INT. STAIRCASE

Electra climbs the stairs, her mind pouring through the

possibilities, filled with fear.

By the time Electra reaches the top floor, Jennifer is

entering her apartment.

Electra hurries past Jennifer's door to her own.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Electra flies across the living room to the monitors.

She clicks them on, putting on Jennifer's channel.

On the screen we see Jennifer in her living room checking

her phone messages.  One from her mother.

Electra throws a few switches so that Jennifer's entire

apartment is in front of her.

On one of the monitors we see a shadow slide across the

oak floor as something moves along the edge of the room.

Jennifer has moved to the bathroom and is drawing a bath.

Electra clamps her hand over her mouth when he steps out.

Bain moves into the dining room where Jennifer had just

been.

Wearing rubber surgeon's gloves, he picks up the mail that

she had dropped on the table and sorts through it.

Bain moves about the apartment with complete indifference

to Jennifer's presence; as if he were invisible, as though

he knew she couldn't see him.

He moves into a room, just as she moves out.

Electra watches, dizzy, sick with terror, but she is

unable to turn away.

Bain searches through a desk drawer, while Jennifer starts

undressing for her bath.

He walks down the hall and stands outside of the bathroom.

If Jennifer would turn around she would see him.

Electra is about to run, to call out when --

Something catches Bain's eye.

He moves into the bedroom, and is turned so that he is

looking straight up into the camera.

He inches towards it, not sure what it is.  The fiber

optic cable is hidden in the light fixture hanging over

the bed.

Staring at it, he is looking right at Electra.

Bain steps up onto the bed, his face distorting as he

moves close to the fish-eye lens.  Poking it with his

finger, he realizes what it is.  A warped smile stretches

across his face as he whispers --

Electra tears away from the screen, panic seizing hold of

her.

She rips entire drawers out of her dresser, dumping them

into a suitcase, stuffing in anything that looks

important.  She grabs Nikita in the "travel kitty."

EXT. BACK PORCH

The door opens and Electra jumps out, slamming it behind

her as --

Bain turns from the back stairs.

She leaps back inside as he whips out his GUN, PUMPING TWO

HOLES in the door.

INT. ELECTRA'S APARTMENT

She scrambles from the kitchen, throwing her suitcase,

still clutching the "travel kitty," as --

The back DOOR EXPLODES from its hinges, Bain charging,

FIRING his GUN.

BULLETS HISSING past her, Electra crashes through the

front door into the hall.

INT. HALL

The stairs are at the far end.  She is only halfway,

when --

Rath rises up the stairs, his gun cocked.

Electra drops to the floor as --

Behind her, Bain barrels from the apartment.

Rath FIRES.

The wood DOOR SPLINTERS, BULLET HOLES surrounding Bain.

Off balance, he lunges back into the apartment.

Rath continues FIRING, grabbing hold of Electra.

They run down the stairs.

EXT. REAR STAIRCASE

Bain leaps down the flights.

EXT. ALLEY

Bain rushes into the street, looking in every direction.

They are gone.

EXT. LARGE CHAIN HOTEL - NIGHT

Somewhere in the city.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra and Rath enter the room together but they are both

immediately alone.

She walks across the room to a chair in the corner,

curling into it even as Nikita jumps up and curls into her

lap.

He sets his briefcase on the table at the opposite end of

the room and sits.

They watch each other.  Silence.

Between then is the liquor cabinet.  Rath knows a good

idea when he sees one.

Her face is as expressionless as Nikita's.

He pours himself a very large bourbon and slugs it down.

Takes a deep breath, then pours himself another one.

He returns to his table with his drink.

Her body tightens, coils.

Another deep pull on the bourbon.

He slugs down the rest of his drink and stands, whipping

out his gun.

Crossing the room, he turns the gun around and offers it

to her.  She looks at it.  Back at him.

He puts it on the bed beside her, turns his back and walks

to the bar.

She picks up the gun.

She stands, Nikita jumping from her lap.

She starts squeezing OFF ROUNDS; the LAMP EXPLODES, the

CHAIRS around him ERUPT, tufts of white stuffing leaping

into the air.

He freezes, bottle in one hand, glass in the other.

She moves closer to him, the gun squeezed in her fist.

A slight shake of the head, no.

She FIRES the GUN to both sides of his head.  He's

surprised to be alive.

He returns to his chair and sits with the same expression

she had worn sitting a moment ago.

She opens the cabinet and grabs one of the sample bottles

of liquor.  She sucks it all down and throws the bottle

across the room.

Grabbing another, she sits on the edge of the bed.

Nikita rubs up against her leg.

She nods, slurping at her bottle.

Electra eyes him, considers shooting him right now.

She FIRES the GUN, pocking the wall behind him.

She's up pacing, knowing there is some truth in that.

She is coming unglued.  Imagining him watching her tapes,

going through her possessions.  She is moving, pacing,

ready to explode.

She whirls and starts FIRING the GUN, firing it

everywhere, fear and anger rocketing out of her in

WHISTLING hot wads of LEAD.

When she stops, he starts to say something but she levels

the gun at him.

She forces herself back, grabbing handfuls of the sample

bottles.

With the gun and an armful of booze and Nikita following

at her feet, she goes into the bathroom and slams the

door.

INT. BATHROOM

She locks the door and then collapses.  Her body seems to

fold up onto itself as she slides down the wall; the GUN

and the BOTTLES falling from her arms, CLATTERING SOFTLY

on the bath rug as she buries her face in her hands.

INT. BEDROOM

Very mechanically, Rath begins setting up his chess board,

putting the pieces into the same positions.  It is a

ritual, and with it he enters a kind of trance.

From the bathroom, almost inaudible, he hears Electra

CRYING.

INT. BATHROOM

With her head now buried in her arms and knees, she is

sobbing, her body rocking.  The crying seems very similar

to Jennifer's; a complete emotional release.

INT. BEDROOM

Rath stares at the board.  The CRYING grows LOUDER.  He

stands and walks to the door.  He starts to knock but

stops himself.

Like Electra with Jennifer, Rath would like to help, he

just has no idea how to.  He turns back to the desk, to

his chess game.

INT. BATHROOM

Her eyes are now burning red.  She stops crying long

enough to suck down an entire sample of Scotch.  Nikita

rubs against her and she strokes her.

INT. BEDROOM

Rath is setting up his computer system.  He hears the TUB

FILLING UP.

INT. BATHROOM

Nikita jumps up onto the toilet seat and starts drinking.

Electra finishes another sample and drops it to the floor

where we see that many of the bottles are now empty.

In the tub, steam rising off the surface, she wrings out a

wash cloth and covers her face, sinking deeper into the

water.

INT. BEDROOM

When Electra comes out of the bathroom, Rath is again at

his chess game.  She sits down across from him and sets

the gun on the table between them.

Rath looks up at her.

The conversation dies.

He stares at her.

They sit in silence, the gun and the chess game lying

between them.

She looks at the chess board.

He smiles.

She understands that he is trying to tell her something.

Electra studies the board.

Rath nods.

She reaches over and lifts a White Knight and takes a

Bishop.  Rath counters, taking her Knight.

Rath nods.

Throughout the entire conversation they continue to play

out the chess game.

A long beat.

Rath leans back and stares at her.  She waits.

Electra says nothing.  He leans forward and slides a rook

into her back row.

He leans back.

A beat.  Rath likes this woman.

She moves her Queen.

He smiles.

INT. CHEAP HOTEL - NIGHT

The room is ugly.  Shag carpeting, wood paneling and

polyester patterned curtains.

We hear a COMPUTER KEYBOARD CLICKING away as we MOVE

ACROSS a table.  The hotel phone is in a modem, which is

held together with duct tape.  Between the modem and the

computer is a scrambler constructed out of a series of

naked circuit boards.

It is a very similar set up to Rath's, only it has been

put together with a fraction of the resources.

Bain sits, typing at the computer, his shirt off.  Beside

the desk-top is a six pack of Old Style beer, a bag of

Doritos and his Gameboy.

On the floor, disassembled neatly on a small white towel

is his cleaned gun.

Bain finishes punching in a code, sits back and sucks down

his beer.

He belches.

He is communicating with his General Contractor.

On the table is a collection of personal objects, much of

it stuffed in pillow cases, taken from Electra's house.

Bain fingers a pair of satin panties.  He smiles as he

smells them.

Bain slams his beer down.

Bain falls back in his chair, thinking.  He runs his hands

through his sweaty hair.

There is no response.

A long beat.

He hits the repeat key.

Bain stares at the screen, thinking.  Thinking hard.

INT. LARGE CHAIN HOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Another computer screen, but we don't know that it is

different.

We are in Electra and Rath's hotel room.  She is standing

behind him, reading as he types.

Rath types in an account number.

INT. AIRPLANE - DAY

Rath and Electra are sitting in the first class section,

which she is obviously enjoying, smiling and sipping

champagne.

Rath says nothing, staring out the window.

Electra shakes her head.

He still does not respond.

Electra sips the last of her champagne.

A long beat.

EXT. SMALL MEXICAN AIRPORT - DAY

The plane lands.

EXT. TERMINAL CAB STAND

Rath and Electra hand their bags to a CABBY who puts them

in his trunk.

INT. CAB

Rath speaks perfect Spanish.

EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY

The cab pulls up in front of a large, brand new glass

hotel, which shimmers in the blue green reflection of the

gulf water.

Rath is upset.

EXT. COSTA BLANCA - DAY

American tourist dollars have built up the coasts, but

much of the out-lying city is very poor.

The old Hotel Paraiso is a five story blackened husk.  The

face of the building is burnt black and it seems to hang

in space as something non-corporeal, like the shadow of

the building rather than the building itself.

Rath stares at it, remembering.

Electra is behind him, standing in the midst of the Plaza

del Sol.

He looks up to the fifth story window, then turns directly

opposite of that.

The International Banco de Mexico, an enormous, beautiful

old building; its exterior walls are white-washed

concrete, blindingly bright white.

Electra looks at the bank and smiles.

Rath is not listening to her.  He is somewhere else.  He

turns back to the fourth story window.

EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - NIGHT

Beyond the lights of the hotel the gulf darkens to

midnight oil.

INT. HOTEL PARAISO ELEVATOR

On one side of the elevator is a young couple who look

like newlyweds.  They are cuddling, kissing and giggling

as though they are alone.

Electra and Rath are on the other side of the elevator.

It is a strange contrast.

Electra is staring at them.

Rath, behind his sunglasses, is in his own world.

The ELEVATOR CHIMES and opens.

Nobody moves.

The DOORS CHIME again and start to close, as everyone

realizes that this is their floor.

Rath and the other man grab the doors, which spring back

open.

It is a funny, awkward moment, as everyone apologizes and

smiles politely, on the way out.

INT. HALL

The couple move down the hall, the newlyweds finding their

door first.

Rath reaches the door to their room, opens it and enters.

Electra lingers, watching the other couple, watching as he

fumbles for his keys, her hand running up between his legs

and over his ass.

He finally manages to open the door and she pushes him

inside.

Electra softly closes her door.

INT. HOTEL PARAISO - HOTEL ROOM

Rath is sitting in a desk chair staring out of the sliding

balcony doors at the dark gulf water.

Electra moves about the large suite.

Rath says nothing.

The two of them walk into the bathroom, leaving Rath to

himself.

INT. BATHROOM

Electra sits on the edge of the over-sized tub, water

running through her fingers as she adjusts the

temperature.

After a beat she hears a SMALL CRASH, a GLASS BREAKING.

It is followed by other MUFFLED NOISES, a WOMAN GIGGLING

and a THUMPING.  The sounds are coming from the other side

of the tub wall, from the other suite.  Electra puts her

ear against the tile to listen.

The WATER FILLING her TUB is too loud for her to hear.

She turns it OFF.

There is more BUMPING and THUMPING, the WOMAN LAUGHING and

then, the LAUGHS SHORTEN into SOFT WHIMPERS.

Electra hangs on each sound, slowly lifted by it, moving

up toward the over-head fan and ducts.

The SOUNDS get LOUDER as she moves closer to the vents,

until she is standing precariously on the edge of the tub,

listening to what is clearly the sounds of TWO PEOPLE

MAKING LOVE.

Their MOANS and SHRIEKS CLIMAX and Electra smiles.

INT. BEDROOM

It is dark now.  A single desk light is on, under which

Rath is setting up his chess board, putting the pieces in

their familiar pattern.

Electra comes out of the bathroom.  She seems very clean

and fresh, wearing a long white T-shirt and thin robe.

She watches him setting the pieces onto the board.

He looks at her.

She sits across from him looking at the board.

This strikes Rath as a very strange question and he is

suddenly annoyed by her.

He knows she will anyway.

He finishes his glass of bourbon.

She is not sure what to say next, if she should say

anything at all.

He pours himself another drink, dropping in some ice from

the ice bucket.

She slips out of the robe and in between the sheets.

Rath sits across the room, his back to her.

She tries to make herself comfortable, but cannot.

She thinks.

She pulls the covers tightly to her chin.  Her eyes do not

close.

INT. HOTEL (COSTA BLANCA) - NIGHT

A small hotel in the city, away from the beaches, built

before there was such a thing as central air conditioning.

Bain is naked, except for a small pair of camouflage

jockeys and his Walkman strapped to his shoulder.  His

head is pumping wildly with the speed metal thrashing in

his ears.

He is tearing open a long box wrapped in "Happy Birthday"

paper.

Inside the box is a massive black hi-tech assault rifle.

He smiles.

He assembles it quickly, snapping it together with

automatic ease.  When the sight is tightened in place, he

jumps up.

In the mirror over the dresser, he poses down with the

gun.

Not satisfied, he grabs his shades and checks himself

again.  He starts moving with the music, playing with the

gun, first as a guitar, then whipping it around, spinning

it expertly, like a drum and bugle corpsman.  The gun zips

and flashes around as he whirls in place, then freezes.

The butt of the rifle to his shoulder, he peers down the

scope at his own head reflected in the mirror.  He is

sweating and breathing, but the barrel does not move.

EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DAY

Electra leans out over the railing, smiling, inhaling the

warm air, the scent of the shimmering blue-green sea.

Rath stands in the shadow of the door frame.

Rath steps a little farther out.  He looks down either

side of the building, checking sight lines.  He looks out

and sees another hotel with windows facing them.

He turns to her.  Says nothing.  Moves back inside.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

The breakfast trays are empty.  Rath is sipping coffee,

scribbling notes and diagrams on a piece of paper.

Electra comes out of the bathroom dressed for the beach.

He stops working.

INT. HOTEL HALL

Electra steps out of the hotel room ready for the beach.

At the end of the hall, she sees the newlywed couple get

on the elevator.  She starts to call to them to hold it

for her, but she stops herself.

The elevator closes.

She edges slowly down the hall, stopping outside the door

to their suite.  She touches it with the tips of her

fingers.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Rath is still at the table.

The curtain begins to billow, a soft breeze blowing

through the open patio door.  They swell open and fall.

It seems for a moment that there is a figure, a shadow, in

the changing shape of the curtain.

Rath stands.  He walks to the open door.  Standing in the

frame, he looks out at the blue ocean below.

He slides the door closed, and the curtains fall still.

EXT. PLAZA DEL SOL - DAY

Bain moves through the market, booths lining the edges of

the plaza.  His eyes shift rapidly behind his sunglasses.

He buys an apricot and strolls into the center of the

plaza.

He looks at the bank, at the military-style security

guards that patrol the front.

He turns in the plaza, checking the perimeter, his gaze

falling on the tall, burned-out building.

He looks back at the bank, imagining the sight line.

He bites into the apricot, its juice gushing, running down

his chin.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Rath is leaning back in the bed, NIKITA PURRING in his

lap.

He did not sleep last night and is very tired.  His eyes

fight to stay open.

The sound of the TELEVISION momentarily hangs in the hotel

room as he sleeps.  The program is a SPANISH DUBBED

version of GOLDFINGER.

The door bangs open and Rath springs off the bed, a gun

flashing in his hand, leveling it at a dazed, blinking

Electra.

Rath sighs slowly, letting the hammer of the GUN CLICK

back into place.

She smiles.

EXT. HOTEL PARAISO - DUSK

The sun burns a tropical red against the mirrored windows

of the hotel.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Electra is sitting on the bed, her back against the wall.

In her hands is a paperback romance novel that she is

looking over the top of, staring intensely across the

room.

We can hear Rath, his breathing deep and even.  He is

doing Tai Chi, wearing only his boxer shorts.  His body is

coated in a sheen of sweat, his muscles strained as he

moves fluidly through space.

Electra begins to breath with him.

She moves her body slightly, her hips rising as though to

meet his.

He empties his lungs entirely in one exhale and stops, his

eyes closed, rested.

He looks at her.

He nods.

Electra nods, watching him bend, reaching for a change of

clothes.

Electra nods again.

INT. COSTA BLANCA HOTEL - NIGHT

Bain is doing push ups.  He is naked except for his

camouflage bikinis.

He has his feet up on a chair, making it harder, the dip

deeper.

His body is gushing sweat, his face a burning red.

He is like a piston firing up and down.  The muscles in

his neck and shoulders are bulging cords.

Slowly, his arm begin to tire, the strain seen in his

knotting and twisting expression.

Half way up, he collapses, feet falling off the chair.

He rolls onto his back, rubbing a tricep.  It hurts.  He

licks the sweat off his upper lip and smiles.

INT. HOTEL PARAISO ROOM - NIGHT

Rath checks his watch.  It's after eight o'clock.  He

lifts the phone and plugs it into the modem.

Electra drops her book and climbs off the bed.

He dials, types the code and waits.

Rath stares at the screen.

Rath disconnects.  The PHONE HUMS.

Electra picks it up, placing it back in the cradle.

She does.

He opens a case and pulls out his gun, some paper and pens

and two small mikes that look like hearing aids.

He starts drawing several squares on the paper, as Electra

picks up the mike.  She looks over it, frowns.

He looks at her.

He goes back to his drawing.

He draws another square.

He describes this as though remembering it.

He shakes his head.

She waits for him to explain.

Rath nods.

POV - THROUGH TELESCOPIC LENS - MARBLE STATUE

The cross-hairs of a telescopic sight are lined-up on the

head of a marble statue.

INT. COSTA BLANCA HOTEL - NIGHT

Bain is laying on the floor in the dark.  The rifle is

under him as he aims out of his balcony, down the street

at the statue.

He looks up from the scope, checking the street.  It is

dark and empty and he shifts back looking into the sight.

His finger squeezes, the GUN ALMOST SILENT, as --

INTERCUT WITH:

STATUE

A chunk of STONE EXPLODES out the head of the statue.

Again, the GUN SPITS and another cloud of dust and ROCK

BURSTS from the head.  His finger is pumping the trigger,

until the head cracks and falls.

He's laughing, hysterical, looking down the street at the

headless statue.

He rolls onto his side still laughing.  Then, suddenly, he

stops, staring up at the stars in the night sky.

INT. HOTEL PARAISO ROOM - NIGHT

Electra is still at the table, staring at the diagrams, in

another world.

Rath pours a glass of bourbon and sets it in front of her.

Rath nods, pouring himself a drink.  Electra looks at the

drink, downs the whole glass.  He refills it.

She smiles.  They both gulp down their drinks and he fills

them again.

Rath shrugs.  He is no longer looking at her; staring at

the board, moving his mind into the chess game.

She watches him and then begins to study it with him, the

way a child does, almost imitating him.  She does not want

to be left alone right now.

She reaches over and moves a white knight.

He blinks.  His eyes shifting, sorting the possibilities.

He picks a bishop and counters.

After another sequence, he takes her bishop and she takes

his knight.

There is no point in arguing.

As they continue to play, we begin to hear in the

distance, the COUPLE in the adjoining suite MAKING very

vigorous LOVE.

Electra watches Rath to see if he hears them.  He shows no

sign of it, concentrating on the game.

He looks up.

He hears it.  Not interested.

Rath shakes his head.  In the b.g., the WOMAN is ALMOST

SCREAMING.

The WOMAN SCREAMS a final time in CLIMAX.

Electra moves her queen, taking his other knight.

He shrugs and takes her queen, the game continuing.

This gets his attention.

A good answer.  Electra smiles.

He looks up from the game.

They rise up from the table, together, knocking over the

chess game.  The pieces fall to the floor.

They grab at each other, kissing, both of them hungry,

aggressive.  They tear at each other's clothes and at

their own clothes; it has a very awkward sense to it, as

they become naked in front of each other.  There is

nothing smooth or fluid about it, which makes it seem very

real.

He takes her, lifting her onto the table.

She scoots and wiggles back, the chess pieces falling out

of the way.

She opens her legs and he moves in between them.

Her breath rushes out, then back in.

He smiles.

Her legs wrap up around his hips and he pushes deeper into

her.

INT. HOTEL PARAISO - HALL - NIGHT

Outside of the room, we can hear the MUFFLED SOUNDS of TWO

PEOPLE MAKING LOVE.

EXT. COSTA BLANCA - NIGHT

We are MOVING DOWN the street, LOW, OVER the old

flagstones, TOWARDS the marble statue that Bain shot.

On the ground are the shattered pieces of the head.

CLOSER

We see one of the pieces is part of the face, the eyes,

which seem like the iris-less eyes of a chess king.

CLOSER

We MOVE INTO the blank white of that eye.

WHITE SQUARE GLOSSED WITH LIGHT

We PULL BACK, RISING UP and AWAY, and see other squares,

black and white like a chess board.

A woman's HIGH HEELS CLICK past.

RISING HIGHER, we see the woman walking.  A man crosses

behind her, in another direction.

HIGHER STILL, and we realize that we are looking at the

black and white marble floor of the --

INT. INTERNATIONAL BANCO DE MEXICO - DAY

It is a strange and beautiful bank.

The ceilings are vast, the suspended lights elaborate,

baroque, the enormous clock on the wall, built to resemble

a sun.

It looks almost as though it could be a museum, with its

massive oil paintings and bronze statues of important

Mexican figures.

Already it is crowded, people and security guards moving

about beneath us.

Rath steps onto the checkered floor and remembers.

EXT. OUTDOOR CAFE

The cafe is off the plaza.

Electra sits at a patio table.  Down the street she can

see the back of the burned-out hotel.

She hears Rath in her ear-piece.

She is nervous.

INT. BANK

Rath is wearing a well-tailored, gray silk suit and dark

sunglasses.  In his hand is a very large briefcase.  He

crosses the checkered floor to the teller windows.

EXT. CAFE

Electra smiles when she hears him, mouthing the name

"Martin."

INT. BANK

A BANK OFFICIAL walks over to the window, carrying a

printed receipt, with a very bright smile.

He hands Rath the receipt.  He glances at it, checking the

zeros.  There are seven of them.

The smile fades.

EXT. CAFE

Electra looks up over her book and Bain is there, moving

down the side street, gliding through the crowd with the

menacing indifference of a shark.

INT. BANK

The Official is talking to the teller in Spanish, when

Electra whispers in Rath's ear.

Rath freezes.

EXT. CAFE

Electra watches as Bain moves along the plywood wall,

covered with bills and posters, built to keep people out

of the burned hotel.  He is carrying a long nylon duffel

bag.

At the corner, a section of the plywood has been pulled

loose and Bain squeezes through, into the hotel.

INT. BANK

Rath is sitting in one of the high backed leather chairs

set in pairs along the wall of the bank.

He glances at the enormous clock, which reads 10:10.  He

checks his Rolex.

INT. BURNED HOTEL PARAISO

The center of the hotel is open.  Interior hall balconies,

which line each floor, look down onto an old atrium

courtyard.  The fire did the most damage here, spreading

easily throughout the entire building.

The skylight and ceiling at the top of this open area, has

been destroyed and sunlight streams through throwing

broken patterns of shadow and light onto the blackened

floors and walls.

Bain enters, and carefully begins climbing the charred

staircase to the fifth floor.

INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM

The room has been heavily burned, stained black from

smoke.  The charred carpet crunches and cracks, as Bain

walks across it to the window.

As he nears the exterior wall, several FLOOR BOARDS BREAK

with a brittle SNAP and he almost falls through.

He pulls his leg free.

Outside the window, across the plaza, he sees the bank; a

perfect site.

Quickly he unzips the bag and lifts out the gun.

He grabs a magazine and snaps it into place.

He aims down at the bank's bright white stairs.  A man is

walking down the steps and Bain finds the center of his

forehead in the cross-hairs of the scope.

Bain makes a gun noise, followed by the sound of a head

bursting open.

He giggles.

Leaning against the wall, in the shadows of the window,

the gun in his lap, he waits.

Time slows to a crawl.

Without taking his eye from the bank, Bain rummages

through his bag and finds a pack of cigarettes.  He pulls

one out with his lips and lights it.

Taking a deep drag, he lets the smoke slowly leak out and

drift up into the night.

SUN

White hot.

INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM

There are five cigarette butts ground into the blackened

window sill, where Bain extinguishes another.

The room is hot, a streak of sweat up his back and front.

It is difficult to breathe.

A man walks out of the bank, wearing a suit similar to

Rath's.  Bain's body snaps erect, rifle instantly leveled.

He sights the man's head, his finger tightening on the

trigger, but he is not sure it is Rath.

He looks over the scope, looks back.  The man reaches the

bottom of the stairs.  Bain's body sags.

He takes a deep breath and wipes the sweat from his

forehead, leaving a smear of black from the charcoal wood.

He again fumbles through his bag, finding a container of

bottled water.  He chugs the whole thing.

INT. BANK

The Official walks over to Rath with a number of papers to

sign.

Rath signs them, but does not get up.

EXT. CAFE

Electra is sipping at some iced tea, dizzy at the thought

of all that money.

INT. BANK

There is a faint smile on Rath's lips.

EXT. PLAZA

The shadows are getting longer.

INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM

Bain is rocking back and forth, breathing through his

teeth.  He has to urinate.  Bad.

He is checking every face that comes out of the bank with

the scope.  Still nothing.

He grabs the empty plastic bottle, unzips his pants and

begins refilling it.

A man in a suit appears on the steps and Bain fumbles the

bottle, spilling it as he lifts the gun.  It is not Rath.

He hurls the bottle of piss across the room.

INT. BANK

The sun clock on the wall, perfectly still, reads 5:20.

After a long beat a single minute clicks off.

INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM

The sun is getting low.  The room much darker now.

Bain sits at the window; his body a knot.

A large group of tourists flow out of the bank and Bain's

eyes light up.  One by one, the scope passes over each

face.

They trickle down the steps and into the plaza.

The stairs are again empty.

Bain screams, pounding the butt of the gun down, splitting

open the floor.

He looks at the bank.  Nothing.  He checks his watch.  In

fifteen minutes the bank will close.

He stands up.

EXT. CAFE

Electra is watching the back of the hotel, when Bain

emerges from the shadows.

He is moving like a bullet, knocking into people who don't

get out of his way.

INT. BANK

Rath looks up at the clock, smiles.

EXT. CAFE

Electra smiles.

She sees Bain storming up the stairs.  She stands, tosses

several bills on the table and leaves.

INT. BANK

Bain charges into the bank, tearing off his sunglasses,

scanning the room.  His face is a twisted grimace,

streaked with black charcoal.  His body and clothes are

covered in sweat and large salt rings.  His breathing

labored.

He sees Rath sitting comfortably, calm, his suit not even

wrinkled and realizes that Rath has been waiting for him.

His first instinct is to turn and run, but he stops

himself.  He is confused, unsure.

Then, as though understanding he has no choice, he puts

his sunglasses back on and strides over to Rath, BOOTS

CLICKING against the polished MARBLE.

Bain sits down in the leather chair across from him.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra carefully moves up to the fifth floor, then

navigates around a large hole, towards the last room.

INT. BANK

Bain isn't listening.  Instead he's watching, everyone who

walks near them.

This catches Bain's ear.

Bain is not laughing.

INT. BURNED HOTEL ROOM

Inside the burned out closet, Electra finds Bain's nylon

duffel bag.

Digging through it, she finds his Gameboy, his Walkman,

his .22, ammunition clips and several issues of Soldier of

Fortune and a Punisher comic book.

The rifle is not here.

INT. BANK

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra is beginning to panic.  She cannot find the gun

and has started looking in other rooms.

INT. BANK

Bain's face changes, muscles relaxing, the tension

slipping out of him.

Bain is smiling.

They stare at each other.

Bain jumps out of the seat.

He's walking, turning, watching everything, everyone.

He's out the door.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra is on the fourth level, searching desperately for

the gun, rushing through the black skeletal remains of the

hotel.

In her ear she hears Rath.

She shrieks.

INT. BANK

Rath is at the counter, as the Official loads perfectly

stacked blocks of crisp one hundred dollar bills into the

case.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra is frantic.

INT. BANK

For Rath, everything has changed.

EXT. PLAZA

In long, pounding strides, Bain crosses the square,

twisting, glancing back, watching.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra nears the room below the fifth story window.

INT. BANK

Rath is now afraid.

EXT. SIDE STREET

Bain nears the opening in the plywood wall.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra looks up and there is the gun; supported by black

plumbing pipe and charred lathe.  It hangs in the space

between two joists, hidden in the upstairs floor.

She reaches for it, but it's too high.

She is not listening; she is rushing down the hall, back

toward the stairs.

Just as she grabs the rail, she hears BAIN STORMING INTO

THE LOBBY below.

She begins climbing the stairs, quickly but quietly.

Bain is a rampaging beast, lunging up the stairs.

INT. BANK

The bank is almost empty.  Rath has begun to sweat.

The Official looks at him strangely, stacking the last of

the green paper blocks.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra peeks over the rail to see Bain right behind her.

The voice screams in her ear and she tears the mike off,

stuffing it in her pocket.

INT. BANK

The Official closes the case and snaps the clasps shut.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra turns into the hotel room just as Bain reaches the

fifth floor.  There is no time.

She slips into the closet, as Bain whips around the corner

into the room.  He rushes to the window, slamming himself

against it.

He bends down and from the hole that he fell into, pulls

out the assault rifle.

Electra watches through the slits of the blackened wood

lathe.

He pounds his fist rapidly into his thigh and then through

the wall.

He stands suddenly, perfectly still, gun aimed at the

bank.

INT. BANK

The sun clock reads six o'clock.

There is no one left in the bank except for employees and

guards.

The Official is at Rath's elbow leading him towards the

metal gates.

It is happening as it happened ten years ago.  Rath knows

that he is unable to stop it.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Bain is rigid, cast in iron, the rifle rammed under his

chin, sight tight to his eye, finger wrapped around the

trigger.

Electra silently, ever so delicately opens her bag,

lifting out her gun.

In the...

TELESCOPIC SIGHT

we watch Rath step out of the bank, the doors closing

behind him.

BACK TO SCENE

Bain smiles.

INSIDE CLOSET

Electra slowly rises, still watching Bain.

EXT. PLAZA

The sun has begun to set and the entire plaza has a deep

orange and auburn cast.

Rath looks down at the descending, white, stone steps.

He steps down to the first stair.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra is standing.  The gun clenched in her shaking

hand.

TELESCOPIC SIGHT

The cross-hairs are an "X" on Rath's head.

BACK TO SCENE

EXT. PLAZA

Rath looks across the square, up the side of the hotel, at

the window; there is only black shadow.

He knows it is over.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Electra shoves open the door, leveling the gun --

As Bain turns.

She FIRES.

His shoulder explodes, blood spraying the black wall.

EXT. PLAZA

Rath hears BAIN SCREAM.

His eyes, his whole body comes to life.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Bain is twisting in mid-air, diving as --

She FIRES again, moving at him.  A chunk of WOOD EXPLODES

as she misses.

He falls, the burned FLOOR SHATTERING, charred JOISTS

SHEARING with the sound of BREAKING GLASS.

She watches him fall through, hears him HIT the FLOOR

below, ASH and WOOD CLATTERING around him.

The gun trained on the hole, she peers over the edge, but

he is gone.

EXT. PLAZA

Rath races wildly across the darkening market square.

INT. BURNED HOTEL

Bain, lying on his back, aims the rifle at her FOOTSTEPS.

He FIRES, finger pumping, BULLETS ERUPTING through the

floor around her feet.

Screaming, she leaps out of the room, into the hall.

His shoulders oozing blood, Bain clenches his teeth and

rises, listening as --

She sprints for the stairs at the far end of the hall.

Beneath, he moves to the railing and aims at the

staircase, waiting, until --

Electra freezes at the top of the stairs, realizing that

they are exposed.

She flashes her head, quickly dipping back as the WALL is

PERFORATED with BULLETS.

She can hear him coming, his voice ECHOING through the

hollow building.  She looks down the stairs, the hall,

above; there is nowhere to go.

Bain FIRES up at the ceiling, the BULLET tearing through

the floor, WHIZZING past Electra's head.  If she moves

he'll know her position.

He FIRES another.

Electra sinks down, her back against the wall and aims at

the floor.

Another SHOT.

She FIRES back.

Bain closes, as they both start FIRING, silenced WEAPONS,

flashing, PUMPING LEAD at unseen targets.

Her gun empties first.

He laughs hearing the CLICK.

Rath's scream ECHOES up through the building.

Before Bain can target him, Rath is gone; a shadow, a

ghost.  He scans the hotel's courtyard.  The last light

from the setting sun slips through the slits, cracks and

broken window panes, casting patterns; a surreal dream-

like grid resembling a chess board.

Electra sees her chance.  She leaps to her feet, throwing

the gun over the balcony.

The two men watch the GUN CLATTER to the floor as she

races back to the room.

Rath grabs the gun tracking Bain hurling up the stairs to

the fifth floor.  Rath pulls the trigger and finds the gun

is empty.

Bain reaches the top of the stairs before Electra gets to

the end of the hall.

Rath sees it all happening.

Bain snaps into a targeting stance.

Electra is flying toward the door, her feet hardly

touching the floor --

TELESCOPIC SIGHT

When the cross-hairs find her back.

BACK TO SCENE

Time becomes syrup.

Bain FIRES.

Electra dives.

The blackened DOOR JAMB SPLINTER-BURSTS in front of her.

She bounces, scrambling on all fours into the room.

Bain hurries down the hall after her as Rath bolts for the

stairs.

Seeing Rath exposed on the stairs, Bain whips around and

FIRES, the WALL SHREDDING behind Rath as he dives back

down into the shadows.

Ripping open Bain's duffel bag Electra grabs Bain's .22.

Bain advances steadily, the rifle trained on the door.

Inside the room Electra grunts, hurling the duffel bag out

the door.  It spins over the balcony and plummets to the

ground and bursts open.

A GUN CLIP SKITTERS across the stone tile coming to rest

in the middle of the courtyard.

Rath and Bain both see it.

Staying hidden, Rath immediately circles towards it.

Bain sweats, looking at the door, down at the clip, then

back at the door.  Something's got to give.

Unsure what to do Electra waits, the gun clenched between

her two hands, covering the empty, dark space of the door.

Bain makes his choice, moving towards room 502.

Rath sees that Bain is going after Electra.  He takes a

slow breath and tears from the shadows --

Bolting into the open, Rath is focused wholly on the clip,

the ground a blur beneath him --

Bain reacts; the rifle swings, rushing, arcing after Rath.

Two more steps and Rath dives, sliding, snagging the clip

as --

The RIFLE SPITS --

Rath screams, his leg erupting with blood.

TELESCOPIC SIGHT

The scope glides up zeroing the back of Rath's head.

BACK TO SCENE

Rath rams the clip in place.

Bain squeezes the trigger --

CLICK -- the rifle is empty.  Bain screams in disbelief.

Rolling over, Rath jacks back the slide and sights the

balcony but Bain is gone.

Electra searches the room for a way out.  Keeping the gun

trained on the door she steps carefully over to the hole

that Bain fell through.

Grimacing, Rath struggles to his feet.

Bain explodes through the wall, charred wood and plaster

flying.

Electra spins to shoot but the FLOOR suddenly CRACKS OPEN,

swallowing her.

Limping, lurching up the stairs, Rath hears the CRASH.

Jarred by the fall, Electra drags herself away from the

open ceiling.

She looks up for Bain but he has again disappeared.  She

looks at the gun, thinking, turning it over in her hands.

His leg soaked with blood, Rath rumbles down the hall.

Black with soot, Bain descends soundless, serpent-like to

the fourth level through another burned opening.

Electra moves towards the door aiming at every sound, at

every dark corner.  She is almost there when we see Bain,

a shadow coming to life, emerging behind her.

Lumbering, Rath is halfway there, his eyes riveted on the

door to room 502.

Hearing Bain, Electra turns.  In one smooth motion, he

snatches her arm and breaks her wrist.  The gun falls.

Rath hears her scream.

Electra kicks at his groin but he drops, leg sweeping her

to the ground.

She gropes for the gun when he kicks her in the face,

jack-knifing her body back, knocking her unconscious.

Bain grabs the gun.

Rath whips into the room BLASTING --

BULLETS CHASING Bain as he disappears into a blackened

hole.

Rath goes to Electra not knowing if she is alive or dead.

Gently he turns her, cradling her head, her face, smeared

with blood.

From within the labyrinth, Rath hears BAIN begin to LAUGH.

Electra comes to, her eyes blinking open.

Electra is trying to focus, as Rath listens to the voice,

searching the shadows but the voice seems to come from

everywhere.

The voice is closer.  Rath wipes the stinging sweat from

his eyes.

Still dizzy, Electra taps her fist against Rath's chest.

It seems as though Bain is in the room.

Electra opens her fist and inside Rath sees the handful of

bullets from the other gun.

Bain whirls INTO VIEW, his gun whipping around to Rath who

turns too slow.

Bain pumps the trigger.  ONE CLICK.  ANOTHER.  And

ANOTHER.  The gun is empty.

He levels his gun.

Rath FIRES, OVER and OVER, emptying the GUN into Bain's

head and chest, even as he crashes through the balcony

railing and falls, twisting through lightless space,

slamming to the stone floor dead.

EXT. PLAZA DEL SOL - NIGHT

The sun is gone, the market is closing, the crowd drifting

from the plaza.

A man and a woman emerge from the shadows of the alley

beside the boarded hotel.  Although they walk a bit slow,

leaning on one another, they become it seems, like just

another couple, arm in arm, holding tightly to each other

and to a very large suitcase.

