ESTABLISHING SHOT - EXTREME CLOSE - UP - COBBLESTONES - PARIS -

EARLY MORNING

TITLE SEQUENCE BEGINS

We OPEN with the screen filled with a dark gray, cut down

the middle by a black crevice. We should be unsure of what

we are looking at. Is it the surface of the moon or some

primeval canyon covered in volcanic ash? Just then a liquid

with a yellowish tinge finds its way down through the crevice

and further divides the screen in two, like a river border

dividing East from West perhaps.

CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal that the dark gray gulch

filled the screen was in fact two paving stones on a Parisian

street and the yellowish river that ran down the middle of

the stones comes in two tiny streams that lead to two little

boys, who are peeing on the pavement, laughing at their

mischief. The boys are twins. They wear backpacks and are

set to go off to school. Just then we HEAR the voice of a

WOMAN shouting in French (with English subtitles).

CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal ever more scenes of life

on this particular street. The woman shouts at the children

from her window and the children run off. At the corner,

fresh bread is being delivered to a sidewalk cafe, as chairs

are set out at tables by white aproned waiters who are

preparing for their morning clientele.

CAMERA PULLS BACK AND UP to reveal a taxi driver arguing

with a deliver man as a husband kisses his wife goodbye and

set off for work as we continue pulling back and across the

city over Montmartre, picking up an argument between two

drivers here, fresh bread being delivered to a cafe over

there. Chairs are being set up at sidewalk tables as the

city awakens and we float across Montmartre into a small

residential quarter. Husbands kiss wives who send school

children on their way as TITLES CONTINUE and the city comes

more and more to life and we hover across a small square

just up from the Place de la Opera, not far from the Boulevard

Saint Germain-des-Pres, with Montmartre in the b.g. The square

has a sidewalk cafe with tables extending out onto a peninsula

of pavement that stretches to the foot of a small hotel,

whose shuttered windows overlook the square. As we pull back

and back over the small square, we literally...

SFX SHOT

...Pull backwards through the slats of the shutter, going

from an aerial shot, being sucked in through the semi-closed

shutters into a hotel room where we continue ever so slowly,

pulling back.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - PARIS - EARLY MORNING

The first thing we SEE in this shot which should appear

seamless in its one continuous motion transition from the

preceding scene, is a spider-web. We are TIGHT on the web in

which a still-living insect struggles against his silky bonds.

The web begins to tremble as from up above the spider drops,

spinning thread lowering itself down on this latest victim,

soon to be lunch. As the spider makes this journey we become

aware in the b.g. of the panting sounds of lovemaking. It is

a woman's breathless sighs and gasps we hear, but under that,

perhaps a man's voice, perhaps not. The sounds build to a

climax as the camera continues to pull back until it discovers

the glistening body of a beautiful young Parisian woman in

post-coital dewy Nirvana. Then, the figure of a nude man in

silhouette enters frame and crosses over to the shuttered

window. His face and body are half-lit by the slats of light

that penetrate from the world outside the hotel room. He

lights a cigarette.

ANGLE ON - CLOSE ON THE MAN

whom we will come to know as CARLOS. He lights the cigarette

and takes a thirsty drag sucking the smoke deep into his

lungs, glancing out at the street and alternately at the

spider who tiptoes down to her prey. He watches the spider

envelop the still-living victim with her spindly legs. Then

he takes another drag on the cigarette and the ash glows

bright, a burning ember which he touches ever so slowly to

the spider's body. It sizzles.

He looks out through the shutters at the digital clock across

the square. Then he glances back at the girl whom we will

call COLETTE. The conversation is in French with English

subtitles.

Carlos crosses to her slowly. He runs his hand across her

cheek, then down across her throat. Death is in his eyes.

INT. BATHROOM - HOTEL - DAY

Carlos stands in front of the mirror. The mirror is cracked

and in it we see the fractured face of Carlos staring back

at us from opposite sides of the cracked glass. He wears

surgical gloves. From a make up kit by the side of the sink

he removes a piece of false hair and spirit gum as TITLES

CONTINUE.

A. Carlos affixes a John Lennon mustache.

B. Carlos puts on a brown wig of moderately longish hair

such as one might have seen on a student in Paris in the

early seventies.

C. Carlos puts on a pair of John Lennon granny glasses and

the student look is complete.

D. Carlos stands in front of a full length mirror in jeans

and a blue work shirt over which he puts a worn grey jacket.

He now looks every inch the young French student dressing

down to look like one of the proletariat.

END OF TITLES

E. Carlos takes an M26 hand grenade and puts it into an inside

pocket of his coat. He puts a machine pistol and snaps its

ammo clip into it and puts it in his student's shoulder bag

and then takes a Walther PPK and places it in his jeans at

the small of his back. All the while that he is doing these

things he sings: "ALL YOU NEED IS LOVE."

SUPERIMPOSED: Paris, September 15, 1974.

EXT. / INT. SIDEWALK CAFE - DAY

It's a hot Sunday afternoon and the complex of shops and a

cafe in St. Germain-des-Pres is bustling with young clientele.

Inside the cafe, there is a second floor with a balustrade

overlooking the tables inside. Outside, there are tables set

up on the sidewalk.

JACK SHAW, a tall, husky American in his late thirties, sits

at one of the front tables outside. He reads the International

Herald Tribune. The headline is, "Terrorists Seize Embassy,

Issue Demands And Threaten Attacks." Jack sips his espresso.

ANGLE ON CARLOS

dressed as in preceding scene. He enters. Just then Jack

looks up and sees him. For an instant, Carlos looks at Jack,

tenses just slightly. Jack looks back at his paper paying no

attention. Carlos pulls out a cigarette, pats his pockets

for a light. Then he crosses to Jack.

He mimes flicking a match and Jack looks for a match. He's

out. He offers the lit end of his cigarette. Carlos cups

Jack's hand.

He crosses away from Jack, smiling and goes inside the cafe.

Jack follows him absentmindedly, tracking his progress through

the windows, though his view is obscured somewhat by

reflections of the street. Carlos steps casually to the

railing overlooking the tables inside as Jack sees the double

image of Carlos and the reflected street scene. Carlos leans

over, pulls the pin from an M26 grenade, and lets the "spoon"

come off in his hand. We HEAR the timing fuse hiss as Carlos

nonchalantly counts to himself.

ANGLE ON - JACK

He looks up just in time to see Carlos drop the grenade

casually into the crowd below. Their eyes lock for a beat;

then Carlos smiles, turns and bounds away. Jack's eyes widen

in horror. He gets up, about to cry out a warning.

ANGLE ON

the crowd below as the grenade EXPLODES, filling the air

with smoke and flying glass, its metal ripping through flesh

and bone. People are wounded, bloody and writhing in pain

and screaming in panic.

ANGLE ON JACK

disheveled, covered with the shattered glass of the window,

but not but not seriously hurt, he struggles to his feet. He

looks around for Carlos who has vanished, now realizing who

he was. As he looks around, he sees a SMALL BOY staring at

his left arm with heart-rending disbelief.

The boy has no hand.

EXT. SIDEWALK CAFE - PARIS - DAY

There are throngs of ambulances, police and military

personnel, wounded survivors are being tended to. All is

confusion and off in a corner we SEE Jack, standing with a

man in a suit. The man's name is DU FOLTIERE. He shows Jack

an I.D.

Du Foltiere pulls out a small notebook to take notes.

EXT. INT. OPEC HQ - DAY

SUPERIMPOSED: Vienna, December 21, 1975

It's a cold Sunday morning with a light snow just beginning

to fall when SIX YOUNG MEN and ONE WOMAN enter the

headquarters of the Organization of Petroleum Exporting

Countries -- a modern, seven-story block of concrete and

glass. They all carry Adidas sport bags over their shoulders.

Their leader, Carlos, with dark beret and sunglasses, sports

a long white raincoat -- the kind that was very much in

fashion that winter. Next to him is KOJ, a Japanese terrorist

and his most trusted Lieutenant.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - THIRD FLOOR

At a long oval table TWELVE OIL MINISTERS. Miniature national

flags in chromium holders in front of them. Behind, sitting

or standing, the SECRETARIES, ADVISERS, INTERPRETERS AND

BODYGUARDS.

INT. ENTRANCE HALL - GROUND FLOOR

The group with the Adidas sport bags approaches the reception

desk. Carlos -- moustache, sideburns, and wispy beard in

reddish brown -- smiles politely at the female RECEPTIONIST.

Behind the reception desk are two circular staircases which

wind their way up to an elevator that is visible behind the

railing at the top of the landing. There is what appears to

be a security man standing at that elevator with an earpiece

and tell-tale bulge under his jacket.

Smiling back, the ash-blonde receptionist nods.

As if on urgent business, Carlos quickly heads up the flight

of stairs before the security man who stands next to the

receptionist can react. The security man speaks quickly into

his walkie talkie.

ANGLE ON - THE LANDING

by the elevator at the top of the stairs. Carlos bounds up

the stairs and pushes the elevator button. The Security Man

near the elevator listens intently to what is being said in

his earpiece and he steps forward to challenge Carlos. Carlos

smiles at him and whips out a 9mm. silenced Beretta and fires

two shots right between the Security Man's eyes. He falls

over the railing and lands face up on the console in front

of the terrified receptionist. Carlos leans over the rail in

one move and fires two shots into the upturned face of the

Security Man who stands next to the shocked receptionist.

The receptionist screams.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM

His words are cut short when the door is kicked open, and

Carlos strides in.

Everyone frantically hits the floor. That is, with the

exception of TWO BODYGUARDS. They try for their weapons. A

short burst from Carlos' Beretta machine pistol which is

pulled from the inside of his trenchcoat brings them to the

floor. This weapon is not silenced, but deafening. Just then

Koj enters the room from the corridor.

Suddenly, there's the sound of INTENSE GUNFIRE coming from

the corridor.

ANGLE ON - CARLOS

He reaches into his trenchcoat and pulls out a pocket-sized

Chinese RGD5 grenade. He yanks the pin, lets the spoon fly,

listens to the fuse hiss, counts quite calmly and then tosses

the live grenade to Koj who catches it and in one movement

tosses it out the door. A loud sound of GRENADE EXPLOSION,

and plaster powders those glued to the floor. GASPS OF TERROR.

But the gunfire outside ceases.

His smile is cunning, mocking, and... familiar.

EXT. VIENNA AIRPORT - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR

We SEE an Air France jet liner touch down on the runway.

EXT. VIENNA AIRPORT - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR

Jack comes down the steps of the just-landed jet. The blizzard

whips around his face as he walks down the stair unit and

onto the tarmac, pulling his overcoat up around him.

EXT. AMERICAN EMBASSY, VIENNA - SNOWSTORM - MAGIC HOUR -

EST.

INT. OFFICE - AMERICAN EMBASSY - VIENNA - NIGHT

Behind the desk is CARL MICKENS, the CIA Station Chief --

tall, angular, cropped grey hair. He is in mid-conversation

with Jack Shaw who sits opposite him, his overcoat over the

arm of the chair in which he sits. He has obviously just

come from the airport.

Mickens looks at him almost in horror. Jack knows he has let

down too much of the mask of professionalism as it were.

INT. VIENNA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - VIENNA - NIGHT

Carl, Jack and various other CIA functionaries walk quickly

down the corridor with Austrian police and intelligence

officers. Jack carries a briefcase as do they all.

ANGLE ON - JACK

INT. MEN'S ROOM - VIENNA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - NIGHT

Jack stands inside of a stall in the men's room. He has just

crossed a certain frontier in his mind and stepped in to the

area known as no man's land. He quickly takes off his overcoat

and jacket and we SEE attached to his arm a harness made up

of straps and springs. He opens his briefcase and attaches

to the harness a .32 caliber Beretta. He fumbles with the

adjustments, racing against time. Finally, he seems to have

adjusted everything just so. Then he lowers his arm to his

side. Then he raises the right arm as if shaking hands and

the harness slams the .32 caliber Beretta from his forearm

straight into his palm.

He resets the gun back into the forearm position. He has a

look of grim determination on his face. The only question

is, is it the look of someone who is crazy enough to do what

he is contemplating.

EXT. VIENNA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - BLIZZARD - NIGHT

On the tarmac, an Austrian Airways DC9. TV cameras, lights,

generators are set up in front of the plane, sending beams

and pools of yellow light into the darkness and the snow

which swirls all around as a pool of REPORTERS stands ready

to record whatever is about to go down. Among a small group

of OFFICIALS is Jack Shaw. Everyone's eyes are on an

approaching yellow curtained bus.

ON BUS

As it gets closer, we can detect through its windshield a

white raincoat and a black beret. Carlos is standing by the

driver with a machine-pistol in one hand and a grenade in

the other.

CLOSE - JACK

His eyes strain to get a better look at the terrorist, his

arm down at his side.

BACK TO SCENE

As the bus parks by the DC 9, Carlos jumps out and waves to

the media. Not the customary V-sign, but the wave of a

celebrity... The hostages then, under their captors' guns,

file compliantly out of the bus and onto the plane. A line

of exhausted, bleary-eyed middle-aged men in expensive suits

and in need of a shave. Carlos however, is as fresh, alert

and energetic as the morning of the attack. And he's

definitely savoring the moment.

ON JACK

Tense, he tries to be inconspicuous as he leans towards

Mickens.

ON CARLOS

Everyone on board, he too climbs the mobile steps and

disappears into the plane. Suddenly, he reemerges and comes

down to where the officials and Jack stand. As Jack watches

him intently, he faces the MINISTER OF THE INTERIOR. In the

window of the plane we SEE Koj holding a grenade to the

pilot's head.

ANGLE ON CARLOS

The distinguished-looking man, who looks a bit like Kurt

Waldheim, nods.

His eye catching Jack, he stops in mid-sentence. A devilish

smile crosses his lips as he turns towards him. He pulls a

cigarette out and crosses right over to Jack, up close and

as they say, very personal. The snowflakes whirl

surrealistically around them as the two stand face to face.

He mimes flicking a match. He takes off his glasses and looks

at Jack and smiles.

With a cunning, mocking smile he extends his hand out to

shake Jack's. Jack stares at him, ever so slowly beginning

to raise his hand. With that move he knows the gun will come

slapping into his palm and he will be able to take Carlos

out no matter what the cost.

His hand starts rising. In another second the gun will spring

into it. Just then we hear:

Jack turns to look at Mickens. Mickens indicates the

photographers.

Jack is momentarily confused. He has turned to Mickens

thinking perhaps he was calling out a warning and now the

moment for the shot has passed. He turns back to Carlos who

shrugs and steps over to the Austrian minister so that the

Minister now is between Jack and Carlos and the shot is lost.

Once again he sticks out his hand. Only this time, as the

cameras roll, Austria's Minister of the Interior shakes the

hand of the archterrorist in what will go down in history as

the "handshake of shame."

ON JACK

His eyes tell it all.

EXT. JERUSALEM - WESTERN WALL - DAY

We begin with an ESTABLISHING SHOT of Al Aksa Mosque and the

Mosque of Omar in Jerusalem. These are the two most famous

landmarks in Jerusalem's Old City skyline.

OVER THIS WE SUPER:

CAMERA then pans and tilts down and we are above the Western

Wall looking down on the bobbing black hats of Hassidic Jews,

the knitted skullcaps of more modern Orthodox, here and there

the olive shirt of Army uniform with M16 or Galil assault

rifle that sways in prayer as well.

To the Jerusalem stone paving stones that make up the square

in front of the wall as we glide across the intersecting

lines of paving stones set one next to the other until a

glowing cigarette comes into view and then a foot which

crushes it out. There should be something in this sequence

that is reminiscent of our opening, a foreboding that just

as the cracks in the Parisian paving stones led us to Carlos

once before, perhaps these new stones will lead us once again

to some act of terror.

NEW ANGLE

to reveal a man standing in silhouette, the man who has just

crushed out the cigarette. We cannot see his face because he

has a camera to his eye.

NEW ANGLE - POV THROUGH THE CAMERA LENS

Through the lens of the camera just established we SEE an

old Rabbi praying at the wall. CLICK! The shutter captures

the shot.

BACK TO SCENE

The man in silhouette now lowers the camera and we SEE that

he is CARLOS! There is no mistake even though the nose,

perhaps is a little different and this time he is clean-

shaven, it is still Carlos the Jackals. He smiles slightly.

EXT. CHURCH OF THE HOLY SEPULCHRE

Busy photographing it, Carlos doesn't seem to notice the TWO

ARABS who watch him surreptitiously. He walks in front of

soldiers who laugh and look at us POV Carlos.

ANGLE

Carlos reaches into his pocket. Is he perhaps going for a

grenade to toss at these soldiers? We build tension as he

pulls out instead, another roll of film and with great

determination, we have the CLICK of the door of the camera

to enhance our music beat as tension builds. Surely it can't

be long till Carlos does something awful.

EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY

Carlos walks towards the Suq, working his way through the

crown from the Damascus gate as we reveal more soldiers in

the foreground, surveilling the area.

EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY

From the POV of the two Arabs following him, we SEE Carlos

lost, or pretending to be, as he ambles along through the

Suq, past all sorts of vendors hawking their wares. Heads of

fish are cut off with the swift slash of a knife in one stall,

freshly skinned lambs hang by their feet in another. Carlos,

still looking lost, approaches a street vendor hawking rosary

beads. We SEE them talk but cannot hear their dialogue.

Carlos walks on.

EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY

A group of children play an impromptu game of soccer.

NEW ANGLE - SAME SCENE - POV CARLOS THROUGH CAMERA LENS

We watch these innocent children playing. If this was a gun

sight they'd be dead. CLICK!

NEW ANGLE

It is Carlos who has taken the picture. His smile at the

sight of the children is no longer a subtle one. There is

some secret enjoyment here.

It's then, that he notices the Two Arabs tailing him.

CLOSE ON - CARLOS

He frowns.

Now what happens can be interpreted in one of two ways. Carlos

takes a turn down an alleyway that has at first a shop or

two, and then is nothing but deserted and foreboding alley.

He is either trying to shake the two Arabs or he has just

entered every tourist's nightmare: a deserted alley in a

foreign country with two bad guys. He quickens his pace. The

Arabs do too. Carlos now knows they're after him and he takes

off running.

EXT. MOSLEM QUARTER - DAY - CHASE SEQUENCE ANGLE

So do the two Arabs. Only now there are THREE MORE ARABS

coming after him.

MOVING

A tense, desperate CHASE in the Moslem Quarter's labyrinth

of twisted alleys and narrow streets. When his Arab pursuers

lose sight of him briefly, Carlos takes something out of his

pocket, some sort of ID and throws it in an alleyway.

EXT. SUQ - JERUSALEM - DAY

Carlos races through the Suq, past a group of Arabs who begin

heeding the call to prayer. They roll out prayer mats and

begin acclaiming in Arabic that there is only one God and

Mohammed is his prophet. Carlos grabs one of the canvas

awnings that shade the alleyways and this cafe. He rips it

off, trying to make an obstacle course between him and his

pursuers. He overturns trays of olives, sacks of sunflower

seeds, anything he can get his hands on.

NEW ANGLE

Carlos runs headlong into a copper serving platter that is

hanging on display. He is disoriented, terrified, and then

seemingly from out of nowhere, he is tackled, grabbed by the

Arabs and dragged to a dark alley between two stores. Carlos

is overcome and brought down to the ground. One of the Arabs

evidently has a deep dislike for Carlos and though Carlos is

subdued, he kicks the shit out of him.

INT. WINDOWLESS CELL - DAY

This room is your worst nightmare in the Middle East. It

could be a cellar suite in Beirut, or an interrogation cell

in Damascus. There is no way of knowing. It is simply an

empty room with a large metal ring embedded into the floor,

to which Carlos is shackled. Battered and badly bruised,

he's obviously in great pain. The room's metal door SCREECHES

as it opens slowly and a new man whom we will call AMOS

enters. With him are two of the Arabs we've seen earlier.

They're bareheaded now, without their kaffiyehs.

He smiles.

Amos swoops down and with one hand pulls Carlos by the hair

over across his knee with his throat up and other hand in a

hammer lock. Amos brings his face down to Carlos.

Carlos whose neck is stretched back like a goose about to be

slaughtered can barely croak out an answer.

Amos loosens his grasp and straightens up. Carlos winces in

pain from broken ribs. As he speaks it is now unaccented

English, just the slightest trace of Spanish background.

He is not pushy, just firm and decisive.

Carlos, who from now on out will be referred to by his real

name, RAMIREZ, has had it with the reasoned approach. He now

adopts the demeanor of a U.S. Naval Officer reaming an

enlisted man a brand new bunghole.

Amos is doing his best to look unflappable.

INT. CORRIDOR OUTSIDE RAMIREZ'S CELL - RUSSIAN COMPOUND -DAY

Amos walks down the corridor. For the first time, he looks

the tiniest bit concerned.

INT. AMOS' OFFICE - JERUSALEM - DAY

Amos sits in his office looking very worried. A long-haired

baby-faced agent comes in. He could pass for a typical student

traveling on holiday. His name is YONI.

EXT. ALLEY OF OLD CITY JERUSALEM - DAY

Yoni and half a dozen plainclothed Shin Bet agents walk

through the alley looking around. Yoni is dressed like a

long-haired backpacking student; others dressed like Arabs,

others like tourists. As inconspicuously as possible, they

search alleys and trash cans like the homeless searching for

food.

INT. AMOS' OFFICE - JERUSALEM

Amos sits at his desk. Just then Yoni walks in. Amos looks

up.

Yoni puts a U.S. Navy ID complete with photo and a set of

military dog tags on Amos' desk.

ANGLE - CLOSE ON THE ID

It identifies its bearer as Lt. Commander Annibal Ramirez

U.S.N. There is a picture of Ramirez in the upper corner of

the ID in uniform.

ANGLE ON AMOS

He holds the ID and then sits back in his chair defeated and

lets out a very Jewish sigh.

INT. CIA HEADQUARTERS - TERRORISM SITUATION ROOM - DAY

This is a high-tech, ultra modern chrome and glass room which

features a map of the world etched in plexiglass with

terrorist hot-spots marked prominently. On the glass as well

is the logo of the CIA. In this Situation Room we find WINSTON

SCOTT III, a 50-year-old pin-striped suiter who appears to

be amused. With him is Monroe, his Black deputy and Jack. In

front of Jack, spread out on the desk is a file on Ramirez.

We SEE it as Jack does. Notes on the interrogation, Polaroid

photos of Ramirez in custory and the developed pictures from

the roll of film which Ramirez was taking in Jerusalem. Jack

listens to Scott and Monroe, but as he does he is taking in

all the information in Ramirez's file, making no judgments,

just taking in information.

Jack, however, isn't sniggering. He's thinking hard as he

looks at all the information on the desk.

His eyes glance down to the pictures, especially the photos

of the children. Something begins to click.

EXT. NORFOLK, VA - DAY

SUPER: NORFOLK, VIRGINIA

EXT. T-BALL FIELD - NORFOLK, VA - DAY

Almost nothing is as cute as 3 foot 5 inch 6-year-olds

struggling to play the most elementary form of baseball, T-

ball.

ANGLE ON - 6 - YEAR-OLD JOEY RAMIREZ

He is the first baseman and he is intent upon the batter who

stands at the T.

ANGLE ON - THE PARENTS

cheering their kids on. Amongst them we recognize MAURA,

Annibal Ramirez's wife, who is cheering for her son's team.

She holds a ten month old baby as she cheers.

NEW ANGLE

on Annibal Ramirez, resplendent in his summer whites, his

face still showing the faintest remnants of bruises at the

hands of the Israelis. He holds his sea bag in his hand.

There is a waiting taxi behind him as he strides over towards

the baseball diamond.

ANGLE ON - JOEY

He sees his father just as the batter hits the ball.

The pitcher scoops the grounder up and tosses it to Joey

whose eyes however have lit up at the sight of his sailor

father home from the sea so the ball hits him in the side of

the head and he goes down. Ramirez wants to rush out to his

son, but Joey straightens himself up quickly, not wanting to

be embarrassed by an over-protective parent.

ANGLE ON - MAURA AND RAMIREZ

Maura has followed her son's gaze at Ramirez and feels no

embarrassment whatsoever as she runs into his arms, still

holding her baby. She kisses him.

He picks up the baby and kisses her.

EXT. RAMIREZ'S HOUSE - NORFOLK - A MONTH LATER - DAY

It's a stucco, single-level structure in a clean, middle

income neighborhood. Jack Shaw pulls up, crosses out of his

car and knocks on the door. The door opens revealing Ramirez

in a T-shirt and pair of sweats. Jack looks at his face, the

unmistakable face of Carlos.

EXT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - BACKYARD - NORFOLK - DAY

ANGLE - CLOSE ON

the barbeque's coals which burst into flame as fluid and

then match are applied. OVER this we hear

NEW ANGLE - ON JACK AND RAMIREZ

They stand at the barbeque as Joey plays shooting hoops.

Ramirez holds Yolanda. Ramirez and Jack speak quietly.

Jack chuckles.

Jack reaches down, opens his briefcase and pulls out a large

photo album-like briefing book. He opens it up and hands it

to Ramirez. On the first page there is an 810 enlargement

of a photo of Carlos entering a building. It is grainy but

it certainly looks exactly like Ramirez.

Ramirez looks at the picture with the same look on his face

that Jack had when he saw Ramirez for the first time.

Just then, Joey yells from the tree he's in. Jack

automatically hides the picture as if the kid were from a

rival intelligence agency.

Now when Jack speaks it is more guarded and in even quieter

tones.

Ramirez looks at the picture in shock at the resemblance.

We HOLD on Ramirez's look and Jack's half-smile.

INT. OFFICERS' CLUB - NAVAL BASE - NORFOLK - EVENING

The Officers' Club is decked out for a reception for ADMIRAL

CRAWFORD. All the officers are in dress whites and all the

wives wear white gloves and cocktail dresses as a Navy string

quartet plays softly in b.g. There is a reception line and

the Admiral stands with his aide who introduces each of the

guests who pass through the line.

Next up are Ramirez and his wife Maura.

He looks uncomfortably over to his aide who gently keeps the

line moving. CAMERA FOLLOWS ANNIBAL AND MAURA DOWN THE

RECEPTION LINE. There in front of them is Jack in a white

linen suit.

ANGLE ON

THE BAR - Ramirez stands at the bar.

Jack steps up behind him. Jack holds a small wrapped package.

Jack stands in front of him blocking his way.

Ramirez controls his anger which is starting to show through

in the bulging veins.

EXT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - DAY

We open on a shot of the front door. The doorbell is rung

and the door opens after a beat, revealing Ramirez. We don't

yet see who is at the door.

NEW ANGLE

Revealing it is Jack who is at the door.

Just then the cellular phone which Jack holds rings. Jack

smiles and holds out the phone to Ramirez.

Ramirez takes the phone, totally faked out. He presses the

"send" button and gingerly says...

We HOLD for a beat on Ramirez's look at Jack who stands there

unable to keep from smiling.

EXT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DAY

A helicopter lands in its air ambulance spot outside the

Emergency Room entrance of Bethesda Naval Hospital. Out step

Ramirez and Jack. They cross over to the hospital entrance.

We SEE a sign on the wall identifying this as BETHESDA NAVAL

HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM ENTRANCE.

INT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DOCTOR'S LOUNGE - DAY

Jack is there with Ramirez. He hands Ramirez a white lab

coat and puts one on himself. Ramirez's coat has a tag he

doesn't even notice, which says: DR. RAMIREZ on it.

Ramirez resignedly puts the coat on.

INT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - CORRIDOR - DAY

Jack and Ramirez walk down the corridor.

This last is asked almost as an afterthought.

INT. INTENSIVE CARE - HOSPITAL - DAY

In the hospital bed is a six-year-old swathed in bandages.

The child is pitiful with IVs sticking in him and tubes

running underneath the bandages, and a heart monitor beeping

weakly above him. His parents sit next to his bed. The father

wears the khaki uniform of a Naval Lieutenant.

NEW ANGLE

ON Jack and Ramirez. They watch this scene through the little

window in the door and then they enter the room.

BACK TO SCENE

The parents turn to them as they enter. The parents wear the

look all parents wear in their children's hospital rooms at

the signt of the doctor who may be able to save their child's

life. A look of hope. A look of desperation.

Ramirez's eyes dart in panic from Jack to the Newcombs. They

stick out their hands. Finally, he offers his.

Jack turns to Ramirez.

HOLD on Ramirez's look of helplessness which turns to anger.

INT. HOSPITAL CORRIDOR - DAY

Ramirez and Jack walk down the corridor. Ramirez is tearing

off the lab coat.

Jack reaches into the large pocket of his lab coat and pulls

out a small photo album, the kind families use to put in the

35 photos of their vacations. He puts it into Ramirez's

hand.

He hands him the photo album.

Ramirez is still too angry to speak.

INT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - STUDY - NIGHT

Ramirez sits at his desk looking at the presentation book

Jack gave him. The study is a reflection of the man, Navy

pennants, photos, ships in bottles, family photographs. He

is very much at home in this sanctuary.

INTERCUT

Photos of victims. Bloodied children, women, men, each

atrocity labeled with the place of the attack and number of

dead and wounded.

Just then there is a knock at the door. Ramirez closes the

book and covers it with a newspaper as his wife Maura enters

wearing a very sexy teddy with a short robe over it, giving

off the promise of a wonderful night of conjugal bliss.

She bends down and kisses his neck.

She sits into his lap, they kiss and the robe slips down off

her shoulders. He kisses her more passionately now.

INT. CHILDREN'S ROOM - RAMIREZ HOUSE - NIGHT

Ramirez enters. He is wearing a robe, having just gotten up

out of bed. It is perhaps, one in the morning. Joey is asleep,

holding a stuffed animal. The baby is asleep in her crib

looking like a little angel. Ramirez pulls the cover up on

the baby and pats her gently so as not to wake her and then

bends down and kisses his son.

EXT. NEW LONDON, CONNECTICUT - SUBMARINE BASE - DAY

WE SUPER THE WORDS: "NOVEMBER, 1986"

Ramirez pulls up in a car with his wife and two children. He

is wearing his khaki uniform and carries a sea bag. He

embraces Maura.

Ramirez bends down to hug Joey.

He kisses Joey, stands up and kisses Maura and the baby she

holds and walks past the guard gate, showing his ID as his

wife and children wave.

EXT. AERIAL SHOT - MONTREAL, CANADA - DAY

Montreal is an island in the middle of the St. Lawrence. It

is a city part way up a mountain, Mount Royale. We TRACK a

car as it drives up out of the city, up the mountain to of

all places, a cemetery which sits at the foot of a deserted

prison that looms above it. The cemetery like the prison is

deserted. There can be no more desolate place than a graveyard

full of long-dead prisoners whose prison has long since been

shut down.

WE SUPER THE FOLLOWING WORDS: TEMPORARY CIA SAFE HOUSE -

MONTREAL, CANADA

EXT. ROAD LEADING TO CEMETERY - DAY

We SEE Jack's car with him and Ramirez in it driving into

the cemetery. As it does, it crosses in front of a video

camera inconspicuously placed in a tree.

EXT. CEMETERY TO ABANDONED PRISON - MONTREAL - DAY

A camera mounted atop a light fixture pans with Jack's car

all the way up to the prison entrance. Signs on the prison

proclaim that it is closed and that trespassing is forbidden.

As Jack pulls up at the prison, a plainclothed operative

comes out and as Ramirez and Jack pull Ramirez's bag out of

the car, the operative slips into the driver's side and whisks

it away. The ground around the area is full of snow that has

not been plowed so the look of desertion is complete.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - MONTREAL - DAY

There is an observation tower in the middle of the room which

has become home to the pigeons who now flap noisily out of

it as Jack crosses with Ramirez. The place has the look of

an impromptu military encampment in a bombed out wreck of a

building. In the observation room are several nondescript

types. Jack shows Ramirez in.

INT. CORRIDOR - OFF OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

Jack walks Ramirez down the corridor. They pass the

Surveillance Room, the small cell with its satellite dish

and single computer terminal and operator established earlier

as Technician #1. From here, cables snake their way along

everywhere. The place has the look of a mobile high-tech spy

station that just happens to be set up in a former prison.

Ramirez looks around. The idea of being in a prison is

obviously uncomfortable for him.

Ramirez turns and looks at him in surprise.

He looks Ramirez straight in the eyes.

INT. COMMAND ROOM - ABANDONED PRISON - DAY

Jack and Ramirez walk along until they come to a site which

could as easily be in a space station on the dark side of

the moon. There in the middle of a huge room looms a plastic

enshrouded satellite tracking system. The plastic hangs down

from the roof encapsulating this area to protect all of the

state of the art computer equipment from the dust. Inside

this plastic shrouded space we SEE technicians at monitors

which display every approach to the prison as well as monitors

which display the surveillance images transmitted back via

satellite.

INT. PLASTIC COVERED COMMAND CENTER - ABANDONED PRISON -DAY

Jack pushes through the plastic shroud into a command center-

like room. He and Ramirez enter. This place is high-tech,

computers and neon lighting.

They cross over to the satellite tracking monitors which

display both the Libyan and East German safe houses. Sitting

in front of one of the monitors is Amos, typing controls

into the satellite tracking system.

Amos now turns and comes around to Ramirez.

Ramirez stares at him.

Amos is quiet, lets that sink in.

EXT. CEMETERY - MONTREAL - SUNSET

Amos, Jack and Ramirez walk amongst the tombstones. Jack and

Amos have warm coats. Ramirez does not. He shivers in the

cold, but tries not to show his discomfort.

Jack walks right up to Ramirez and mimes a gun with his thumb

and index finger and puts it right up to Ramirez's temple

and goes...

He puts the imaginary gun to Ramirez's temple.

Ramirez says nothing.

INT. ABANDONED PRISON - CAFETERIA - THE NEXT MORNING

It is a huge, empty room. Ramirez sits at the lone table as

Amos enters. Ramirez is eating a bowl of porridge. His breath

steams out in the cold. The room is freezing but instead of

a warm jacket, he wears light prison overalls.

He finishes what's left in the bowl. Amos reaches over to a

side warming table. There is a huge pot of porridge there.

From now on, unless otherwise indicated Ramirez is in the

too-tight shirt and tie and light jacket.

Jack is in the distance, observing.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - ABANDONED PRISON - DAY

Ramirez is doing furious situps, hanging off the balcony of

one of the tiers, with his feet linked under one of the bars

so that as he does his sit-up it is over an abyss. Amos stands

in front of Ramirez, puffing on a cigar as he speaks, so

that Ramirez is gulping in breaths of cigar smoke as he

exercises.

There is a silence between them. This is obviously the end

of that subject. Then Amos goes on.

EXT. CEMETERY - MONTREAL - DAY

As Jack and Ramirez walk toward the cemetery, we SEE Ramirez

who wears a lightweight white parka so that he shivers in

the cold in contrast to Jack's heavy winter gear. Ramirez

carries what appears to be a gun.

They walk into a scene that is completely surreal. Standing

behind every tombstone is one of the crew of trainers.

Each man wears a white parka and white pants against the

freezing cold. In the center of their impromptu circle stands

Ramirez, also wearing white, but of much lighter material so

that he shivers in the cold. All of them including Ramirez

hold paint pellet guns. It is a cemetery full of living

targets which can shoot back. Jack stands outside the circle.

Ramirez hesitates a moment, trying to remember where the

tombstone with the name "Brisson" is. The trainer who stands

behind the "Brisson" tombstone has no such hesitation. He

fires at Ramirez and an ugly black splotch of paint explodes

on Ramirez's white suit. Ramirez shakes his head in

frustration.

Ramirez whirls, misses one, is hit again with another black

splotch but hits the Paquet tombstone square in the chest

with a black splotch of his own.

INT. KITCHEN SET - PRISON - DAY

In the middle of a huge room, a movie set has been erected.

There are flats supported by sand bags which form the "set"

of a kitchen. The set is perfect in every way but its position

inside of a huge prison hall lends a quality of the macabre,

since no movie is being shot here and no audience will ever

see these performances. Jack is there with Ramirez. He opens

the refrigerator and Ramirez looks inside as Jack times him

on his watch, then closes the refrigerator. Ramirez sneezes.

He has caught a cold but must ignore it.

Jack opens the cupboard.

INT. CAFETERIA - ABANDONED PRISON - MONTREAL - DAY

Ramirez sits practicing his Venezuelan accent in English,

repeating phrases he hears from a native speaker on a tape

recorder as he eats another of the interminable bowls of

porridge.

EXT. CEMETERY - MONTREAL - DAY

Ramirez once again stands in the center in his lightweight

white parka surrounded by trainers in heavy white parkas.

Jack is nearby.

Ramirez whirls and misses and is hit by the trainer. Jack

shakes his head and continues.

Ramirez whirls and hits the trainer in his shoulder at the

same time that he himself is hit. Jack's look betrays no

emotion.

As he says this last, Ramirez whirls and shoots another

trainer, dead in the chest. Ramirez smiles. He is beginning

to enjoy playing terrorist.

EXT. DIRT ROAD - DAY

We are speeding down the road in a suped-up open Jeep POV

Ramirez, who is driving. Suddenly, we SEE Jack and Amos up

ahead. Amos pulls a lever and a barrier snaps up at chest

level across the road. We jam on the brakes and

INT. JEEP - DAY

Ramirez is at the wheel. Suddenly he sees the barrier plate

a hundred yards in front. He hits the brakes and the emergency

brake at the same time.

NEW ANGLE

The tires scream and leave black tracks, as the Jeep slides

sideways towards the barrier. Just before reaching it, the

car completes a 180-degree turn and roars back, but at the

last second fishtails and swerves off the road.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

He is obviously frustrated.

ANGLE ON - JACK

He shakes his head in disgust.

EXT. BELVEDERE - DAY

Ramirez and Jack walk together on the belvedere which is an

observation area with a railing around it, overlooking the

abandoned prison. In between the belvedere and the prison is

a field which is almost completely barren except for one

tree. It sits down below.

In the distance, we SEE a snow mobile approach with its lights

on. Just then, Jack takes a pocket sized remote transmitter

and slips it into the front pocket of Ramirez's jacket,

turning it on as he does.

Jack quickly moves away from Ramirez. As Ramirez moves, he

notices that the snow mobile changes direction as well, and

continues to home in on him. And then there is a second snow

mobile. And then a third, all of them coming straight for

him. He starts to run. The snow mobiles turn and continue

bearing down on him, driving him closer toward the railing.

We SEE the snow mobiles are controlled by radio antennas,

evidently homing in on his transmitter.

Jack, who has moved quite a ways off, pulls out a Beretta

and sets it on the rail. We SEE on the snow mobiles, a lit-

up remote device.

Ramirez stands like a deer in the headlights for an instant

and then goes running for the gun. He cannot make it to the

gun before the first snow mobile barrels down upon him. He

is right against the rail now and goes diving into the snow.

The snow mobile goes directly over him and crashes through

the rail, falling down to the field below. Ramirez is up and

running, grabs the gun, fires two rounds and misses, then

hits three dummy rounds which click away as the second snow

mobile draws closer. Then he fires and hits a headlight,

then fires and misses, then fires and hits the remote device.

That snow mobile stops in its tracks. The third now barrels

down on Ramirez. He clicks off two dummy rounds and just

before the snow mobile hits him, a shot rings out. The

receiver shatters and we SEE Jack standing with the smoking

gun with which he has just saved Ramirez's life.

INT. CAFETERIA - ABANDONED PRISON - DAY

It is after lunch and Jack and Amos are eating ice cream

sundaes while Ramirez sits eating the last bit of porridge

from the huge bowl.

He motions for the waiter who crosses with a fresh pot and

starts to ladle it out into Ramirez's bowl. Ramirez reaches

up and tears at his tie and rips open the top button. Ramirez

explodes batting the waiter's hand away and sending the bowl

flying.

With that he rips off the tie and rips open the shirt.

Ramirez looks at him in disgust.

Ramirez just looks at them, in a kind of shock.

INT. ABANDONED PRISON - LIVING ROOM SET - MONTREAL - DAY

Ramirez walks casually through the living room with camera

following. Amos and Jack walk behind him. Ramirez bends down

to tie his shoe near the sofa. He crosses into the kitchen

and camera follows. He opens the refrigerator and takes out

a carton of milk. He takes a drink from the carton and

dribbles some onto his shirt and onto the floor. He gets an

"I'm such a slob" look on his face. Then he replaces the

milk, crosses to the sink, takes the sponge off the sink and

a paper towel. He mops up the spill with the sponge first

and then with the paper towel, then tosses the paper towel

into the trash. As he speaks, Ramirez himself will be amazed

at how much he is able to deduce using the techniques he's

been taught.

He looks down at Jack's shoes.

He gets a quizzical look, crosses to the couch, sniffs.

He crosses to Jack and sniffs Jack as well.

He holds index finger and thumb up to Jack's head like a

gun, reprising his mentor's gesture to him and making the

sound of a gunshot with his mouth.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

We have four quick cuts. Bam! Bam! Bam! Bam! In each one,

Ramirez who stands in the center of the trainers, whirls

like a ballet dancer and beats each trainer to the punch,

hitting dead center on each one with his paint pellet gun.

From the side, Amos and Jack nod to each other approvingly.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

A triumphant Ramirez walks with Amos and Jack.

EXT. ABANDONED PRISON - SUNSET

The sun is just setting. There is the silhouette of the prison

in the snow. A kind of dark serenity permeates the scene.

INT. CAFETERIA - ABANDONED PRISON - SUNSET

Ramirez sits at the table in the huge, dark and empty room.

The table is set with champagne and caviar. He has his Arabic

book and tape and earphones.

INT. NEW MONITORING ROOM - ABANDONED PRISON - EVENING

We are in a new setting. It is a kind of dungeon, perhaps

once a solitary confinement cell. It is crowded here now

with Jack, Amos, and Technician #1 who sit in front of a new

bank of monitors. On one we SEE Ramirez eating in the

cafeteria.

ANGLE ON MONITOR

We PUSH IN on Ramirez on the monitor.

INT. CAFETERIA - ABANDONED PRISON - EVENING

Ramirez sits as before. He is eating his caviar as he looks

at his Arabic textbook.

ANGLE ON - THE TEXTBOOK

It shows a picture of a street in an Arab country, possibly

Libya. It is a typical street scene; a dispassionately sterile

photograph in which one can almost hear the BBC announcer

voice in your head saying, "And here is a typical scene in

lovely Tripoli..." There is a man in a business suit walking

on the sidewalk in this picture. We CUT back and forth between

Ramirez and then as Ramirez strains to look harder,

unbelievingly, we PUSH IN tighter on the picture from his

POV and to our amazement, the man in the picture looking

back up at us is Ramirez! Then suddenly the man in the picture

moves and his finger comes up to his lips and he looks at us

and says, "SHHHHH." Just then, a street vendor in the same

scene pulls out a gun and shoots Ramirez in the picture in

the head. Ramirez falls and the picture goes back to a still

shot of Ramirez lying face down in the black and white photo,

oozing black blood onto the white sidewalk of beautiful

downtown Tripoli.

He looks out the window at the bluish sky as we shift focus

between him and his background. He looks down at the bowl of

porridge.

ANGLE ON - THE CAVIAR

It is crawling with ants.

BACK TO SCENE

Ramirez picks up the bowl and throws it across the room.

He gets up, looks at the TV camera and walks down the corridor

to the observation room.

INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - MONTREAL - EVENING

Ramirez walks down the corridor past the surveillance room.

The satellite dish is still there but there are no technicians

to be seen. He follows the cable that snakes down the corridor

towards the command room.

INT. COMMAND ROOM - MORNING

Ramirez walks along the cable until he comes to the plastic-

enshrouded satellite tracking system. He pulls one of the

plastic panels to discover that the place is totally empty.

He bends down and picks up the cable as if it were a lifeline

on a strip at stormy sea. He follows it hand over hand to

where all the equipment was -- it's gone. He looks around

and through the plastic, starts to see the silhouettes of

people moving and talking. Abruptly, he pulls the panel aside --

just some pigeons against the moonlight shafts.

INT. OBSERVATION ROOM - EVENING

Ramirez enters the Observation Room with its looming

observation tower that now has become home to the hundreds

of pigeons inside it. The place is completely deserted.

At the sound of his shout, hundreds of pigeons explode out

of the observation tower like bats in a primal cave. Ramirez

instinctively crouches in terror.

ANGLE ON

POV Ramirez. It is blurry and then there are brilliant flashes

that cut across our eyes, slicing across our vision, blinding

us.

BACK TO SCENE

Ramirez knows they have doped him.

INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - NIGHT

Ramirez runs down the corridor. There are cells on either

side of him now. They are empty. He is trying to hold onto

his sanity.

NEW ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ

The cells are now full and each of the cells contains...

him! He is trying to get out of all of them.

ANGLE ON - CELL #1

Ramirez is in Carlos' black jeans and T-shirt.

ANGLE ON - CELL #2

Ramirez is in his dress white Navy uniform.

ANGLE ON - CELL #3

Ramirez is dressed as a doctor, operating on a patient with

Jack assisting him. Ramirez pulls a brain out of the patient's

head.

He tosses the brain to Jack who catches it.

Jack eats the brain.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

as he walks down the corridor.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ'S HAND

It morphs from his own hand to that of a child and the child's

hand gives birth to a woman's hand who morph's up alongside

of him. It is Ramirez's mother.

NEW ANGLE

Child Ramirez and his Mother walk down the corridor behind

two Cuban prison guards. The cells are full of Cuban political

prisoners. There are shouts and screams of agony from men

being tortured somewhere far off. They reach Ramirez's

father's cell. Child Ramirez reaches out for his father's

hand. A guard pushes his hand away. RAMIREZ'S FATHER speaks

in Spanish.

INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - NIGHT ANGLE ON - PIGEONS

They come flapping their wings, dive bombing at us.

NEW ANGLE - RAMIREZ

He walks in his black jeans and T-shirt. The cells are empty

around him but up ahead he hears the sounds of someone making

love. Well, not making love... fucking. He approaches the

sounds and there in one cell is is wife Maura under Carlos,

humping away at her. Carlos looks up at Ramirez.

ANGLE ON CARLOS

in cell humping Maura.

He motions for Ramirez to leave.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

He is about to rush the cell when more pigeons come flapping

down at him. He turns and...

INT. CORRIDOR - ABANDONED PRISON - NIGHT - SFX NEW ANGLE

The pigeon becomes a dove gliding in a shaft of moonlight.

Then it leaves the moonlight and it turns into a crow.

NEW ANGLE

The crow turns back into a dove and then suddenly the dove

begins to choke, to vomit. It opens its beak and out of its

mouth emerges the wet, slimy head of a full grown ravenous

crow. It is coming straight out of the dove's mouth and

straight at us, to devour us. We HEAR RAMIREZ SCREAM OVER

THIS.

INT. ABANDONED PRISON - CORRIDOR ENTRANCE - MORNING

Jack and Amos walk down the corridor. They both look as if

they have been up all night, which indeed they have. Both

are in need of a shower and shave.

They round the corner. There, looking up at them, sitting in

a chair, showered, shaved, looking fresh and ready to greet

the day is Ramirez. He is reading his Arabic book. He looks

up at them.

INT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - CORRIDOR - MOSCOW - NIGHT

We begin on a shot of a huge statue of Lenin which dominates

this corridor. As camera swings around we SEE a HEAD KGB

OFFICER with his KGB AIDE. OVER this shot we SUPER:

KGB CENTRAL COMMAND - MOSCOW

The head KGB officer holds a report. He reads aloud in Russian

and we SUPER ENGLISH SUBTITLES. From now on, all dialogue in

Russian will be indicated by putting the dialogue in

parentheses. The KGB Officer is very smug about the report.

He smiles with a great deal of self-satisfaction.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - MAGIC HOUR - AERIAL SHOT

Ramirez races down the road in the Jeep. The road twists and

turns as a light snow begins to fall.

INT. JEEP - NIGHT

Ramirez drives and we SEE that he has an earpiece which goes

to a Walkman tape recorder. We HEAR the instructions being

fed to him on the tape in Jack's voice:

NEW ANGLE - ON THE STOP SIGN UP AHEAD BACK TO SCENE

Ramirez starts to slow down.

We see that Ramirez is going 60 miles an hour down the

straightaway. The road is open and straight ahead. Ramirez

drives on with total focus. The intensity is obvious. Up

ahead is a hairpin turn.

NEW ANGLE

ON the Jeep as it negotiates the turn.

INT. JEEP - NIGHT

We have a shot of the road, POV Ramirez through the

windshield. Suddenly as we negotiate the hairpin turn, there

up ahead of us sits Jacks in the middle of the road TIED TO

A CHAIR, looking straight at us.

ZOOM TO JACK

sitting straight, tied into the chair so that he could not

run if he wanted to. He doesn't move, just stares forward,

as if trying to lock eyes with Ramirez.

HIGH ANGLE

The Jeep turns slightly to the right, then sharply to the

left. And as its back wheels lock, it slides and completes

the 180-degree turn. Just short of Jack.

CLOSE - JACK

His face is white, his stare frozen. He has seen death before.

Never that close.

BACK TO SCENE

Ramirez jumps out of the Jeep, coming straight at Jack.

Just then we HEAR the roar of the snowmobiles coming out of

nowhere, bearing down towards them.

Ramirez looks at him, pushed to the breaking point now. He

pulls the transmitter out of his pocket and crosses right to

Jack and stuffs it in Jack's pocket.

Ramirez waits for Jack to say something... to protest... to

say anything. Jack says nothing. Ramirez turns in a fury and

starts walking away as the snowmobiles bear down from four

different directions, coming straight towards Jack. Jack

says absolutely nothing. Ramirez turns and sees Jack is making

absolutely no attempt to toss the transmitter. Jack simply

locks eyes with Ramirez. Jack is not going to budge. Ramirez

turns his back and is about to continue walking away but the

noise of the snowmobiles bearing on the unrelenting Jack

grows louder. Ramirez can take it no more. He turns, pulls

out the gun and must run right to where Jack is in order to

get shots off at each snowmobile. He fires through the dummy

rounds until he takes out all four snowmobiles, the last of

which comes to rest only a few feet away from them both.

Ramirez is exhausted. When Jack speaks it is quietly and

with contempt.

Ramirez turns, looking at Jack, unable to believe his ears.

As we watch Ramirez listening to Jack, we can see him going

over the edge.

Ramirez walks straight over to Jack, pulls his hair back so

that Jack is staring up at him and then he puts the barrel

of his gun at Jack's temple. Ramirez is not bluffing now. He

has gone completely into the dark side for the first time.

He stares down at Jack and we can see that Jack does not

remember the count, as Ramirez pulls the trigger. CLICK!

He pulls the trigger. CLICK!

He pulls the trigger. CLICK!

He is about to pull the trigger once again when we HEAR:

Ramirez turns to see him, as Amos walks down the embankment

towards him.

Ramirez stays with the gun pointed at Jack. It is obvious he

is in a killing mood, perfectly ready and willing to squeeze

the trigger once again. Amos takes the gun from Ramirez,

points it up and pulls the trigger... KABOOM!

EXT. ROAD BY DEAD SEA - AERIAL SHOT - DAY

WE SUPER THE FOLLOWING: ISRAEL - APRIL, 1987

We have an aerial shot over a date plantation which sits

incongruously in the middle of the desert beside the Dead

Sea, as we MOVE TO REVEAL a car driving along this barren

road. The CAMERA pivots around the car as we See the landscape

scroll behind it; the tortured rock formations, the mountains

reflected in the water, a desert-scape that looks like

something out of Dante, as Peugeot cuts its way along the

road.

INT. PEUGEOT - DEAD SEA - ISRAEL

Jack is in the car with Amos, who drives, and Ramirez. Ramirez

has a bandage across his nose. He has black eyes from plastic

surgery. Jack hands Ramirez a small bundle which he opens.

Inside is a black T-shirt and black jeans.

Ramirez looks at Jack in shock.

Ramirez just looks at him, as if cheating on his wife was

obviously not part of the bargain.

Ramirez is quiet.

EXT. SAFE HOUSE - DEAD SEA - SUNSET

At first we should not realize we are near a building of any

kind. We open on a WIDE ANGLE on the Dead Sea from a stunning

POV. CRANE DOWN to reveal the silhouette of Ramirez smoking

a cigarette. We now SEE that his nose is exactly that of

Carlos. He has just a bit of dark circles left under his

eyes, just enough to make him seem moody. He tosses the

cigarette and turns to enter a room. Now we see that this is

a deserted barracks pock-marked with artillery shells and

machine gun bullet holes from past wars.

EXT. BALCONY - SAFE HOUSE - DEAD SEA - SUNSET

Ramirez turns to enter the barracks with a wide-angle of the

landscape overlooking the Dead Sea. He now wears a black T-

shirt and black jeans. The Peugeot is parked near the barracks

that sits on the edge of the cliff in b.g.

INT. SAFE HOUSE - DEAD SEA - SUNSET

start TIGHT on a shot of an ashtray. It is overflowing with

cigarettes. A woman's hand picks up the butt that is in the

ashtray and with the last of its ember she lights another

cigarette off it. She is CARLA, mid-thirties, hard edged

which mars the beauty she still has. She is intense, neurotic

and bitter.

She and Ramirez are alone in the living room. She sits in a

corner. We become aware of the room. It is a study in

contrasts. Light shoots in through shell holes and cracks in

ruined walls. And yet, the interior is somehow soft, sensuous,

with thick carpet, muslin drapes and a large bed that

resembles at one and the same time, a boxing ring and an

altar. She pays no attention to Ramirez. She doesn't even

acknowledge that he's entered the room. She is in a kind of

reverie.

She holds up a hand without looking at him, commanding his

silence.

She rocks herself back and forth, comforting herself and now

for the first time we see the bottle of Irish whiskey she

holds at her side. She raises it, takes a long gulp, some of

the fluid dripping down the corner or her mouth. She doesn't

bother to wipe it away. It is there next to tearstains on

her cheeks.

Slowly, her rocking back and forth, her primal comforting,

the act of an abused and abandoned child will turn into

strokes, caresses of a secret style from a phantom lover who

will get her in the mood for what she must do. She must get

herself wet. She must get herself ready. She must recapture

what it is to be seduced by Carlos. Her hand is her lover

now.

She leans her head back and conjures Carlos up in her mind.

She masturbates herself stopping just short of climax. Then

she looks up at Ramirez, acknowledges his presence and lets

him exist.

ANGLE ON RAMIREZ

He takes off his clothes. CAMERA SHOOTS FROM THE WAIST UP.

Carla slaps him suddenly without warning hard across the

face.

Ramirez back hands her and she flies backwards against the

couch.

ANGLE ON CARLA

lying against the couch. Her mouth is bleeding just a little.

She puts her finger to her lip and sees the blood. Ramirez

bends down to her, the passion rising.

Ramirez bends down and kisses her and the blood smears and

he kisses her passionately.

Ramirez's head goes down out of frame.

NEW ANGLE

Ramirez and Carla in bed, both naked, Ramirez is on top...

Ramirez is too turned on now to follow instructions.

She pushes Ramirez back. She sits up gropes for a cigarette.

She fumbles with a lighter... Then she throws it aside and

the cigarette.

Ramirez rolls onto his back and she gets on top of him. CAMERA

SHOOTS FROM THE WAIST UP.

She starts humping him. Her voice goes down very low.

She humps harder. Ramirez evidently does.

Ramirez is almost at the point of orgasm and Carla reaches

down with her hands and starts to choke him.

She humps him harder and chokes him and he climaxes and then

she releases her grasp on his throat...

She gets off him and lights up a cigarette.

She starts crying and the crying grows louder. Ramirez rolls

over to her to take her in his arms.

EXT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - MOSCOW - NIGHT

INT. KGB OFFICE - NIGHT

A HEAD KGB OFFICER is with a KGB AIDE. He reads a report.

EXT. AGNIESKA'S APARTMENT - PARIS - DAY

A beautiful young woman whom we will come to know as AGNIESKA

enters her apartment building.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING - PARIS - DAY

Agnieska collects her mail. She stops when she comes to a

postcard. We cannot make out what it says, but it has a

profound effect on her. Dialogue is in French with English

Subtitles.

EXT. - BALCONY - SAFE HOUSE - DEAD SEA - SUNSET

Ramirez stands looking out to the horizon, smoking a cigarette

when Jack comes up behind him.

Ramirez turns to look at him as if a light bulb has just

gone on.

The look on Jack's face for once, having been caught

completely off guard, betrays the fact that Ramirez is dead-

on. Just then, we HEAR:

ANGLE ON - AMOS

He crosses towards them, holding a decoded message.

EXT. SHORE OF DEAD SEA - ISRAEL - SUNSET

Ramirez and Amos walk along the road which runs straight

along the Dead Sea. Here and there are strands of barbed

wire and the barracks in the b.g. As they walk, they pass a

sign which says: THE DEAD SEA - YOU ARE NOW STANDING AT THE

LOWEST SPOT ON EARTH... ELEVATION: 393 METERS BELOW SEA LEVEL.

In the far distance, we are vaguely aware of a huge truck

barreling along, coming straight down the highway towards

them.

Suddenly it seems, the truck is right on top of them, heading

straight for them, like monster in a child's nightmare. It

passes within inches and Ramirez has to fight to keep from

jumping as the truck roars past them. It is not a monster,

just a truck. Then again, it could have killed them just the

same.

It is almost said like the offering of a vow.

EXT. LIBYA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

As passengers come out of the plane we recognize Ramirez

amongst them.

SUPER: TRIPOLI, LIBYA - MAY 1987

INT. LIBYA INTERNATIONAL AIRPORT - DAY

A cold, dreary, oppressive airport. Grim-looking SOLDIERS

and even more menacing SECURITY MEN in dark glasses. In the

line of arriving PASSENGERS, at the passport control booth,

is a limping Colombian businessman. Scanning the place from

behind sunglasses, his heart is POUNDING, POUNDING, POUNDING.

This is it. This is real enemy territory now, and he knows

it.

RAMIREZ'S POV

The foreboding paranoia that everyone is staring at him.

Soldiers, security men, airport employees, other passengers.

They all seem to know his secret. They're all just waiting

for the axe to fall. Ramirez heads over to the Customs booth.

He turns back as a guard pushes him aside to let pass a rich

Arabic family. A young fat girl holding some toys grimaces

at him as she indelicately makes her way with her family

through the crowd. In the b.g. we notice a Mercedes waiting

for them through the glass doors of the airport. Ramirez

continues on his way towards the Customs booth. Behind a

curtain, he sees a man being searched.

The sudden harsh voice jolts us all.

CLOSE - OFFICIAL

Pockmarked face with exaggerated features. Ugly and mean.

Ramirez hands him his Colombian passport. The POUNDING

quickens.

He barks in Arabic, motioning Ramirez to remove his

sunglasses. Ramirez does, fighting to remain calm under the

man's granite gaze. The official looks at the passport and

back at Ramirez. The following dialogue is in Arabic with

English subtitles.

Now and for every other scene in which Ramirez passes himself

off as Carlos, he has brown eyes.

CLOSE - RAMIREZ'S FACE

Tiny beads of sweat begin to form on his forehead.

Ramirez nods, smiling apologetically, searching for the words

in Arabic. Ramirez struggles to appear calm. His heart's

POUNDING, however, intensifies.

NEW ANGLE

Ramirez's luggage is being thoroughly searched by the

Official. Finally the Official looks up at him.

Finally he stamps the passport.

EXT. LIBYA PALACE HOTEL - DAY

We have a shot of the cab, an old Mercedes coming towards

us, and then under the arch leading to the entrance of the

hotel. Ramirez steps out and he's assailed by a bunch of

kids begging and trying to grab his baggage. He looks around.

ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ

Across the street at a cafe soldiers with guns laugh. From a

shop window, the silhouette of a man seems to look right at

us. Across the street, kids on a balcony throw a water balloon

at a horse pulling a cart and the horse bolts right in front

of Ramirez.

BACK TO SCENE

As the street urchins continue to beg and grab at his luggage,

and the taxi driver demands impatiently to be paid, suddenly

out of nowhere, a bellboy appears and smacks one of the kids

who falls to the ground. They all disperse as the bellboy

takes the luggage and leads Ramirez who pays the cab driver

and then crosses to the hotel.

INT. HOTEL ROOM - LIBYA - DAY

The bellboy enters with Ramirez, sets down his bags and then

opens the shutters of the window. Ramirez tips him silently.

Once the bellboy has left, Ramirez walks to the phone and

checks it out. Then he crosses to the shutters. Perhaps he

sees a shadow looking in his direction from the dark apartment

across the street. He closes the shutters. Just then, there's

a LOUD KNOCK on the door. He jumps and automatically goes

for his gun. But he has no gun... and his heart begins to

POUND again. The LOUD KNOCK repeats itself.

An incomprehensible response in Arabic.

The voice is young, and not too assertive. Ramirez consults

his watch and looks out the window again. Everything still

seems to be normal.

Ramirez carefully opens the door. In walks a young, rather

innocent-looking WAITER with a jar of ice water. He wears a

fez on his head. As he places it on a table, Ramirez eyes

him with suspicion. Suddenly the waiter reaches underneath

his jacket and... pulls out a small handgun.

ON RAMIREZ

He is frozen with fear.

ON WAITER

Putting his finger to his mouth to signal silence, he shoves

the gun and silencer under a napkin. Then he takes off his

fez and from within, pulls out a small grenade and extra

clip of ammunition. Without any further attempt at

communication, he exits the room.

Ramirez walks back into the bathroom. He splashes water on

his face and takes three deep breaths and then slowly looks

up into the mirror... and finds Carlos.

EXT. STREET IN LIBYA - DOWNTOWN TRIPOLI - DAY

We SEE a beautiful dark haired woman of about thirty coming

down the street. There are several other pedestrians as well.

The woman is Agnieska. She carries a large bag of groceries.

EXT. STREET - TRIPOLI, LIBYA - RESIDENTIAL AREA - DAY

A van is parked on the street. Agnieska walks along. The van

starts. A man whom we will come to know as VLADIMIR adjusts

the mirror. His partner NIKOLAI readjusts it and in it we

SEE Agnieska, walking. The two KGB operatives, now both see

Agnieska.

Behind Agnieska about fifty feet behind her we SEE several

pedestrians, one is an Arab and another a European. Agnieska

goes up into an apartment building.

Around the corner comes another Arab businessman type. The

first Arab stops in front of the apartment house and bends

down to tie his shoe. The second Arab comes up alongside of

him and the first Arab gives an almost imperceptible nod.

The second Arab goes into the apartment house.

The van makes a U-turn and pulls around the corner to give

them another vantage point of Agnieska's apartment.

INT. VAN - LIBYA - DAY

The two Russian operatives continue their stakeout of

Agnieska's apartment.

INT. APARTMENT - LIBYA - LATE AFTERNOON

Agnieska enters the apartment. She opens the door and slowly

walks in. The apartment is dark. She is about to turn on the

lights when suddenly a hand grabs her from behind around her

mouth and another hand holding a gun snaps right down next

to her head. She drops the groceries and screams but the

hand muffles it. She struggles a bit but the person who holds

her hisses.

Outside the door we hear faintly the sound of footsteps. We

still cannot make out who is holding her. He appears to be

an Arab in traditional garb completely bald with mustache

and glasses. He speaks in a thick Arabic accent.

He loosens the grasp on her mouth.

The person holding her still has his gun at her head. He

cocks the trigger back with a loud noise. The gun has a

silencer on it.

The person who is holding her throws her to the floor. He

stands over her.

The bald Arab who was holding her slowly takes his belt out

of its loops and puts his gun back in his pants. He holds

the belt as if he is going to strangle her.

He reaches up to his glasses and takes them off and his

mustache and false nose...

PRODUCTION NOTE: THE BEGINNING OF THIS SCENE SHOULD BE PLAYED

WITH ANOTHER ACTOR SO THAT THE AUDIENCE HAS NO HINT THAT

THIS IS RAMIREZ. THEN ON THE CUT WHERE HE TAKES OFF HIS

GLASSES, IT SHOULD BE THE ACTOR PLAYING RAMIREZ, BUT HE IS

BALD.

Ramirez laughs.

He bends down to her and kisses her.

He picks her up in his arms and starts carrying her to the

bed.

He lays her down on the bed and pulls up her skirt and his

head goes down out of screen as Agnieska arches her back and

sighs.

EXT. HARBOR - LIBYA - LATE AFTERNOON

The silhouette of a fishing boat drifts along the coastline.

INT. FISHING BOAT - LIBYA - LATE AFTERNOON

We see the silhouettes of two men against the out of focus

backdrop of the city. They are Jack and Amos, chain smoking.

Both men dressed as fishermen. Jack checks his watch.

INT. BEDROOM - APARTMENT IN LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez is in bed with Agnieska. She lays back smoking a

cigarette, sighing.

He gets up and throws on his pants and crosses into the little

kitchen. Agnieska follows, draping a blanket around her. She

crosses to a window and opens it.

He turns back to the refrigerator and opens it. Agnieska

crosses to the fallen sacks of groceries.

His eyes scan the refrigerator.

ANGLE ON RAMIREZ

His eyes still scan. He pulls a cucumber out of the

refrigerator and takes a bite and makes a face.

He opens the lid on the garbage can and throws the cucumber

inside.

ANGLE ON INSIDE OF GARBAGE CAN

At the bottom are cigarette butts. CAMERA ZOOMS IN ON ONE -

IT IS FILTER-TIPPED.

Ramirez turns around to her and comes up behind her.

He grabs her by the back of the neck and shoves her face

down into the garbage can.

He straightens her up and rises with her. Then all of a sudden

he grabs her by the throat and starts to strangle her.

He starts to strangle her and we see not Ramirez but Carlos.

He is choking the life out of her. She croaks out an answer.

He is choking the life out of her when we hear footsteps

racing down the hall. Ramirez throws Agnieska down, grabs

his gun and grenade and races to the open window and goes

out onto the fire escape. His feet are bare. He has no shirt

on.

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - APARTMENT BUILDING - LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez comes out of the apartment onto the fire escape.

Bullets hit the wall next to him and below we SEE several

DST agents shooting up at him. A DST agent appears inside

the apartment and shoots at Ramirez. Ramirez moves out of

the way of the shattered window.

ANGLE - POV RAMIREZ

looking down and across the alley.

INT. VAN - LIBYA - SUNSET

The two Russian operatives get out of their van.

EXT. FIRE ESCAPE - LIBYA - SUNSET

DST agents from below are shooting up at Ramirez. Their

gunfire destroys everything in sight. Ramirez leaps over the

railing and flies across the street, landing on a terrace.

His momentum is so strong that he is propelled through the

glass doors of the terrace.

INT. APARTMENT - NEXT LEVEL - LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez goes through the window of the apartment as bullets

continue to fly. He cuts his feet on the broken glass.

INT. APARTMENT - NEXT LEVEL - SUNSET

Ramirez quickly goes through the apartment, falling into the

room, landing hard where a family is eating and watching TV.

We see now that Ramirez is wounded.

INT. APARTMENT HALLWAY - LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez comes out the door and starts toward the stairs.

Ramirez suddenly bangs into a DST agent. The two of them

look at each other in shock for a beat. Neither was expecting

the other to be there. The moment seems to last forever.

They are literally face to face. Which one will react first?

Ramirez takes half a step back, raises his gun and fires,

exploding the DST agent's forehead. Ramirez has a moment of

horror, splattered with the blood and brains of this man. We

Intercut a flash of the DST man being hit in an instant,

almost subliminal replay as if Ramirez's brain must register

the scene twice to comprehend it. Just then, a shot rings

out from below and Ramirez, who can't help staring in horror

at the dead man, flees once more for his life.

INT. APARTMENT HOUSE - STAIRWELL - LIBYA - SUNSET

Two more DST agents follow the trail of blood up the stairs.

EXT. ROOF - APARTMENT HOUSE - LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez arrives at the top of the stairs. Reaching the edge

of the roof, Ramirez looks across to the other side. The DST

agents arrive at the top and see Ramirez. Ramirez takes a

deep breath and jumps, barely making it, clinging onto a

pipe on the side of the building. Once again, we Intercut

the quick flashback of the DST man being shot. Then, as shots

ring out around him, Ramirez pulls himself up and gets away.

EXT. ROOF - APARTMENT HOUSE - LIBYA - SUNSET

Ramirez checks over the side of the building to see a DST

car following. One agent steps out and starts to shoot at

him. Ramirez fires back and shatters the windshield and then

jumps to the next rooftop.

EXT. ROOF - APARTMENT HOUSE - LIBYA - MAGIC HOUR

Ramirez's silhouette runs from roof to roof.

EXT. ROOF - APARTMENT - MAGIC HOUR

Ramirez trips over a piece of metal and crashes through the

metal roof of a shed, and then, landing, he takes off running

through the narrow alley below.

EXT. ROOF - APARTMENT - MAGIC HOUR

Ramirez runs down the dark and narrow alley.

EXT. NARROW ALLEY - MAGIC HOUR

Outside a Turkish cafe, a DST agent shoots at Ramirez. All

the diners duck for cover. Ramirez shoots out the lights,

the fixture sparks and flies off its hook, sending a string

of lights crashing down toward the DST agent, the bulbs

exploding around his head.

EXT. SMALL ALLEY - NIGHT

Ramirez arrives at a small street. In the distance we SEE

the lights of a bright and busy street. Suddenly, headlights

hit his face, gunfire rings out and Ramirez takes off followed

by the oncoming car.

INT. COURTYARD - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez is running from the car dodging bullets. Ramirez

lobs a grenade at the car. It explodes right in front of the

car, not taking it out, just damaging it. Ramirez runs across

the street and is hit suddenly by a motorcycle which then

veers off and goes crashing into an oncoming car. Ramirez

gets up and runs into a doorway.

INT. COURTYARD - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez, sweating and out of breath, scans his new and dark

surroundings. While bleeding, Ramirez suddenly turns around

and shoots. A DST agent falls out of the darkness, dead.

Ramirez hears something. Turning around, Ramirez shoots an

agent at the top of the building. The body falls and gets

tangled into the string of electrical wires. He reaches into

his pocket, pulls out another clip and re-loads.

EXT. STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez comes out of the doorway and waves down a taxi.

Ramirez jumps into the driver's seat, pushing the driver

aside. When the driver resists, Ramirez throws him out into

the street.

A passing truck nearly hits the driver. Other Arabs start

approaching Ramirez but back off immediately once he raises

his gun. The taxi makes a U-turn and leaves, racing through

traffic. Ramirez checks his mirror and sees that he is picked

up by a DST car. They begin to shoot at Ramirez and his back

window shatters.

EXT. SMALLER STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez is driving full speed. The car jumps as it hits the

junction of the street. Ramirez continues to be followed by

the car of DST agents. Ramirez turns into a small alley.

EXT. NARROW STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez drives down the narrow street. The sides of the car

barely fit through. Sparks fly from the metal scratching

against the walls. The taxi's mirror pops off as the chase

continues.

EXT. SMALLER STREET WITH ARCHES - LIBYA - NIGHT

The cars continue to race through the streets. Ramirez

suddenly sees two kids coming out of a garage. Ramirez veers

out of the way and misses the kids. The car goes crashing

into scaffolding and paint drops down onto the windshield.

Once again, we Intercut the flashback of Ramirez killing the

first DST agent, being splattered with his blood. Ramirez

continues to drive away, wiping away the paint on the

windshield.

EXT. SMALLER STREET WITH CAFE - LIBYA - NIGHT

Ramirez tries to wipe away the paint. The cars continue to

race through the streets.

EXT. STREET - LIBYA - NIGHT

The two cars disappear down a hill. Ramirez's vision is

blurred by the paint on the windshield. A car suddenly appears

that forces him to veer left into a stairwell. The taxi

descends the stairway. Ramirez suddenly pulls the parking

brake and the other car hits Ramirez's car and flips over it

and explodes. Ramirez, watching the explosion, takes off the

other way.

EXT. STREET IN LIBYA - NIGHT

On the harbor, a police car is seen next to Ramirez's taxi.

The sergeant reveals some blood inside the taxi but Ramirez

is nowhere to be found. We SEE the KGB on the scene.

EXT. HARBOR - LIBYA - NIGHT

The fishing boat enters the harbor. Jack stands on the deck

as the boat passes under a bridge. Out of nowhere a man jumps

onto Jack and shoves him to the ground. Holding him by the

neck, Amos appears and is about to hit Ramirez but Ramirez

grabs Amos' arm and stares at him.

EXT. VILLA - LIBYA - NIGHT - ESTABLISHING SHOT

We SEE Carlos' villa through the barbed wire. The silhouette

of a guard is on top of the building.

INT. VILLA BEDROOM - NIGHT

The real Carlos is asleep in the bed with a beautiful Arabic

woman. A Japanese KOJ enters and taps Carlos on the shoulder.

Instantly he springs awake with a gun in his hand pointed at

KOJ.

EXT. FISHING BOAT AT SEA - NIGHT

INT. FISHING BOAT - NIGHT

Jack and Amos are with Ramirez who is furious. Amos is binding

Ramirez's wounds.

Ramirez just looks at him in horror.

He smiles.

EXT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - MOSCOW - NIGHT

The Head KGB Officer is there with his aide. Both look as if

they've been up all night.

INT. VILLA - LIBYA - MORNING

Carlos sits in the closed Villa with Koj and four other

terrorists.

Koj gets up and leaves. Carlos turns to the others.

They all start to protest too late as Carlos pulls out his

gun and shoots each of them.

INT. STAIRWELL - AGNIESKA'S BUILDING - DAY - EST. SHOT

SUPER OVER THE CIRCULAR STAIRWELL: PARIS - JUNE, 1987

Agnieska comes down the stairs, passes by camera.

EXT. AGNIESKA'S APARTMENT BUILDING - PARIS - DAY

A French DST security man comes out of the apartment building

first. He looks around the street and then nods. A second

DST man comes out of the building and gets in a black Renault

after first checking underneath it to make sure there is no

bomb and then popping the hood and examining the engine and

then examining the ignition wires. Satisfied, he takes a

deep breath and starts the motor and then the first DST man

nods inside the apartment building and another DST man comes

out with Agnieska next to him. He opens the door for her

when two shots ring out, both of them hitting her in the

forehead. The DST agents scatter for cover when suddenly the

car parked in front of the Renault explodes with tremendous

force and the DST agents are all hit.

INT. KGB OFFICE - MOSCOW

The Head KGB Officer is there. The Head KGB Officer has a

file opened on his desk. In it are photographs of Ramirez

jumping out of the apartment in Libya. None of the photographs

show his face clearly so there's no way of telling who it

is. Just then the Aide comes in and hands a telex to the

Head KGB Officer.

He holds up the picture of Ramirez with just the back of the

head showing.

EXT. LONDON - HEATHROW AIRPORT - DAY

SUPER: LONDON - HEATHROW AIRPORT

INT. HEATHROW TERMINAL - ARRIVAL GATE - DAY

Ramirez crosses out of the arrival gate. He looks for all

the world like a business traveler who is completely alone.

INT. HEATHROW TERMINAL - CAFETERIA - DAY

The Cafeteria is crowded and noisy. Ramirez walks with his

tray as if looking for a table. There is an open seat where

Jack and Amos sit with their backs to each other at separate

tables. Ramirez crosses to Jack. Ramirez is still bald but

his hair has grown out a bit.

Ramirez sits down and now the conversation is in hushed tones.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

He picks up his soup spoon and turns it over and uses it to

scan what's going on around him.

ANGLE ON - SPOON

IN the spoon we SEE Koj with a flight bag walking across the

cafeteria toward Ramirez.

BACK TO SCENE

Koj crosses around in front of Ramirez to get a better look,

obviously surprised to see what he thinks is Carlos. Koj

leans in close to Ramirez.

Ramirez looks at him, shocked for a moment and then

recovering.

Ramirez gets up casually.

ANGLE ON - AMOS

He has heard everything that has gone down.

ANGLE ON - KOJ

He waits, standing a few feet away and not by the phones as

he was told. He watches Ramirez. Something doesn't jibe...

passwords were not exchanged. He crosses to Ramirez's side.

Ramirez stops for a moment. He knows that the line is some

kind of code and he has no response to give so he starts up

walking again. Koj is instantly behind Ramirez, his hand

going into his flight bag and pushing the flight bag up

against Ramirez's back.

Ramirez does as he is told.

ANGLE ON

Amos. He watches it all going down in the back of a chrome

napkin holder. He slowly gets up, looks around for Jack and

goes out into the corridor and sees Koj and Ramirez going

into the rest room. Koj sees one of those sandwich board

signs off to the side which says, "LAVATORY TEMPORARILY CLOSED

FOR CLEANING." He pulls it in front of the door.

INT. RESTROOM - STALL - HEATHROW AIRPORT - DAY

Koj has Ramirez's head with one hand, while he holds the gun

on him with the other. He forces Ramirez's head down deep

into the toilet bowl. He flushes. The water level sinks and

then rises, covering Ramirez's face. Koj holds him under

water long enough to almost drown him. Then, instead of

lifting his head out, he flushes again and the water level

lowers.

Just then Ramirez manages to kick back and overpower Koj and

send him flying back out through the door of the stall.

Ramirez is back on him in a second but Koj has his gun up

and pointed right at Ramirez's head. They have shifted

position now, so that they are not facing the stall, but the

door of the bathroom. Koj is about to pull the trigger when

we HEAR:

NEW ANGLE

Ramirez ducks and rolls out of the way and Amos fires two

shots into Koj's chest but not before Koj can get off a round

right into Amos' chest. In an instant Ramirez is on the still-

alive Koj grabbing his head in his hands and slamming it

down onto the edge of the sink with a thud that cracks his

skull. He quickly crosses to Amos who is dying.

Ramirez cradles him.

Here, Amos speaks as a doomed father would to a son who still

has a chance to save himself from the Holocaust.

Ramirez stands as Amos literally pushes him away. Ramirez is

the brave and dutiful son as his father says, coaching,

teaching him to the last...

Ramirez is ashen faced, knows Amos is right and forces himself

to stand up and walk almost robot-like out of the restroom.

INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT - CORRIDOR - DAY

On a long shot we SEE Ramirez walk down the corridor till he

sees Jack. He says a few words to him and then starts to

walk back toward the restroom. Jack grabs his arm and

literally walks him out of the corridor and down an escalator.

INT. HEATHROW AIRPORT - PHONE BOOTH - DAY

Jack and Ramirez stand next to a phone booth. Jack is on the

phone dialing. A voice with a cool British accent answers on

the other end.

EXT. CAR - IN RAIN - LONDON - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

INT. CAR - IN RAIN - LONDON - DAY

Ramirez is with Jack who is on the phone.

He shakes his head. Ramirez knows it means Amos is dead.

He hangs up the phone.

Ramirez knows he's right.

Ramirez just looks at him shocked.

EXT. RAMIREZ HOME - VIRGINIA - DAY - RAIN

A taxi pulls up in front of Ramirez's house. Ramirez steps

out of the taxi dressed in his Navy uniform and carrying his

sea bag. He does not have a hat on and we SEE his head while

not bald, is now in the shortest of buzz cuts, certainly

much shorter than the way his wife last saw him. He stands

outside the house looking at it like an adult who has come

back to his boyhood home and finds it suddenly so small.

Just then the door opens. There is Maura holding the baby

and next to her, Joey. Ramirez runs toward them and they to

him and we SEE them in tableaux, embracing. An idyllic family

reunited.

INT. RAMIREZ HOUSE - STUDY - VIRGINIA - NIGHT

We begin on a shot of Ramirez's chair. It rocks back and

forth violently as we PAN UP and SEE Ramirez, who is fucking

Maura. They are both fully clothed, skirt hiked up, fly

unzipped. This is not lovemaking. He is fucking her brains

out. It is passionate, rough sex. Maura hits high "C" as

Ramirez sweeps books off of a table, lifts her out of the

chair and lays her out on the table. The two of them climax

together. It is clear from Maura's look that this is the

best sex she's ever had. Ramirez slowly rolls off her. He is

smiling as well, and then becomes aware that Maura has begun

to cry.

Ramirez gets up and zips up his fly.

He exits.

EXT. RAMIREZ HOME - DAY

SUPER: JULY, 1987

INT. RAMIREZ HOME - DAY

Ramirez comes into the house from the garage.

Maura comes out of the kitchen.

He holds her to him.

EXT. PARK - NORFOLK, VA - DAY

It is Little League Day. Adorable kids are dressed up in

their uniforms ready to play the next level of baseball.

They have graduated from T-ball to coach-pitch, in which the

coach pitches the ball for the kids. There are hot dogs and

lounge chairs, family dogs and... fathers. The mothers are

there as well, as are brothers and sisters, but primarily it

is the fathers trying to fulfill their own dreams of sports

glory through their kids.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ AND JOEY

Ramirez has his arm around Joey, giving him his last bit of

fatherly advice.

He gives Joey "five" and Joey runs out to join his team at

their dugout. Ramirez starts walking about toward Maura and

the baby. As he does, he crosses next to another father,

FRANK, who is with his son TYLER. Frank is about six foot

four and to say that he is competitive would be the

understatement of the year. He is haranguing his kid as if

this were the deciding game of the World Series. He is on

one knee so we don't see just how big he is.

Tyler looks at his shoes. He is cowed and embarrassed.

Tyler is still staring at his toes.

Frank suddenly smacks him in the face. Annibal stops in front

of the two of them.

Frank looks at Ramirez and stands to his full six foot four.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

There isn't a trace of Ramirez here at all. It is pure Carlos.

But before Ramirez can move, we HEAR:

Ramirez turns. Maura is there beside him.

Maura tugs at Ramirez's arm and Frank smirks. Ramirez cages

the monster inside and turns with Maura. As he turns, Frank

turns to Tyler as if he cannot believe the boy is still there.

The boy hesitates. Frank rears back his arm to hit him.

But before Frank can complete the sentence and strike his

child, Ramirez comes flying through the air with a kick

planted straight to Frank's head. It is sudden and violent

and brutal. He comes down and with one side-kick, "knee-caps"

Frank, which is to say he hits the top of Frank's kneecap

and breaks it so that it is down around his shin. Frank starts

to drop but before he can, Ramirez grabs his ears and brings

his head down into his own swiftly rising knee. The result

is devastating and Frank's nose is now all across his face.

Blood is everywhere and Ramirez does it again. Now the object

is Frank's teeth, so that when his head comes off of Ramirez's

knee, his mouth is a mass of blood as well.

In slow motion, Ramirez turns and sees his son who stares in

horror at what his father has just done. At the same time,

maura is up and grabbing onto Ramirez. Ramirez however is

not done. Frank is completely defenseless now and Ramirez

leans him back across his knee, pulls him by the hair exposing

his throat like that of a sacrificial lamb about to be

slaughtered. This time instead of a knife, it will be a karate

chop from Ramirez which will crush Frank's windpipe and kill

him. But before he can deliver the blow, Maura grabs his

arm. He turns to her, almost about to hit her or throw her

off and the two of them are face to face as Ramirez looks

from her to his son and realizes how deep into the abyss he

has plunged.

EXT. STREET NEAR BALLPARK - NORFOLK, VA - DAY

An ambulance is receiving what is left of Frank on a gurney

as Ramirez is led away in handcuffs to a squad car.

INT. POLICE STATION - MARYLAND - DAY

The cell's metal door SCRAPES as it opens. The POLICE CAPTAIN

motions to Ramirez to follow him.

MOVING

Leading Ramirez through a number of corridors, the Captain

stops at a closed door.

Remaining outside he motions Ramirez to enter.

INT. ROOM - POLICE STATION - DAY

Ramirez enters and sees Jack who smiles his cynical smile.

EXT. POLICE STATION - MARYLAND - DAY - RAIN

Ramirez exits with Jack and starts across the street in the

rain.

Ramirez stops dead right in the middle of the street. The

traffic swirls around them.

There is a long pause. Jack turns cold as ice.

Ramirez grabs him and throws him against a parked car. He

begins choking Jack. He may well kill him. Though Ramirez

doesn't see it at first, Jack's gun is already out. Jack

nudges Ramirez in the stomach with it. Jack is choking, unable

to speak, but the gun is speaking for him.

Ramirez looks down and see the gun and loosens his grip.

INT. RAMIREZ HOME - KITCHEN - VIRGINIA - NIGHT

Ramirez is there alone with Maura. They are in mid-argument.

Suddenly, Ramirez bellows and slams his hand down on the

counter.

Maura is shocked by the sudden violence in him.

He looks at her almost in disgust. She sees the look and

slaps him. Faster than she could ever have considered, he

slaps her and sends her back into the wall. She holds her

cheek. He is an inch away from her face and now he is about

to show her Carlos, to become him in front of her.

He speaks very quietly, pulling the curtain aside, taking

off the mask and letting her see the full horror.

EXT. WEST BERLIN - DAY - ESTABLISHING SHOT

SUPER: WEST BERLIN - JULY, 1987

EXT. BERLIN WALL - LOOKING INTO EAST BERLIN - DAY

We are ON the ramparts on the top of the Berlin Wall. These

are platforms from which people can stand and look into East

Berlin, they're covered with graffiti to the East Germans,

LET MY PEOPLE GO, that sort of thing. They look down over

they dingy wall that divides the city marked with machine

gun nests and observation posts. Jack stands there with

Ramirez.

Ramirez locates the beer hall through his binoculars.

EXT. CARLOS' HIDEOUT - EAST BERLIN - LATE DAY

SUPER: WEISSEN, EAST BERLIN

THROUGH BINOCULARS

Across a street with a tree-lined divider, a large mansion

surrounded by a ten-foot high brick wall. The mansion's front

windows are heavily shuttered, with little light filtering

through. Nearby is a small lake.

INT. IVAN AND ANDREI'S CAR - ACROSS FROM CARLOS' HIDEOUT -

LATE DAY

Ivan looks through binoculars, staking out the mansion. He

suddenly becomes agitated.

Andrei picks up his camera.

THROUGH BINOCULARS

A man's figure emerges stealthily from the shadows of the

mansion's back wall.

ZOOM

The blonde, bearded Ramirez.

CLICK, CLICK, CLICK... The quick sound of the camera shutters.

Faintly we HEAR the sound of a motorbike start up. Then we

SEE Ramirez on the motorbike heading off. Ivan and Andrei

follow him at a distance.

EXT. ROAD LEADING INTO EAST BERLIN - MAGIC HOUR

The KGB car falls in behind another car separating it from

the motorbike and follows Ramirez into town. He passes by

giant steam pipes in the foreground as the KGB car follows.

EXT. ROAD - EAST BERLIN - MAGIC HOUR

A tram wipes the screen to reveal Ramirez, on his motorbike,

followed by the KGB car. The landscape is desolate, with

drab row-houses. Ramirez gets to a red light. As it turns

green he sees the KGB car in his mirror. He jams across the

street, just barely fitting in between two criss-crossing

streetcars. Ivan and Andre lose sight of Ramirez.

EXT. STREET - EAST BERLIN - DUSK

Ivan and Andre shoot forward and then slow, as they spot

Ramirez buying a newspaper at a newstand.

ANGLE ON - RAMIREZ

He holds his motorcycle helmet in his hand, and using it as

a mirror, he sees the KGB car in its reflection. Satisfied

that they have caught up with him again, he walks across the

street to the beer hall.

INT. BEER HALL - DUSK

The large bierstube is crowded, noisy and enveloped in a

thick cloud of cigarette smoke. Its lively, at times rowdy

clientele is in various stages of intoxication. As the loud,

oom-pah-pah-pah band plays popular German music, those who

are not too busy eating, talking, or emptying liter-sized

beer steins, sing along.

ON RAMIREZ

Fighting the crowd, he heads for the back of the beer hall,

looking for his contact.

ON IVAN AND ANDREI

Entering the place, they pretend to be camera-carrying Russian

tourists. A common sight in East Berlin.

ON RAMIREZ

He stops and stares.

RAMIREZ'S POV

Through the jam pack, the profile of a man, with a Tyrol hat

who sits along the back wall. Busy eating, he seems totally

oblivious to the hoopla around him. We can't really see his

face.

ON RAMIREZ

As he cautiously approaches what he thinks is Jack. It isn't

him. There is a sudden look of panic on his face and then he

spots Jack also in the same kind of hat. Lifting his head,

and turning to face Ramirez, we too recognize him. Under the

hat, and the new heavy eyebrows and mustache, is... Jack. He

smiles, takes off his hat, and motions his quest to sit down.

ON ANDREI (THROUGH IVAN'S CAMERA)

He's posing with a giant stein. A slight shift of focus and

we can see Ramirez. Jack, however, is hidden by the waiter's

back. Then, the Waiter moves on.

ZOOM

A clear, unobstructed picture of Jack and Ramirez up close.

CLICK, CLICK, CLICK, CLICK, CLICK... The rapid CLICKING stops

only when the view of the two is blocked again by other

people.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE BEER HALL - DUSK

Ramirez emerges from the beer hall. He heads back to his

motorbike.

ANGLE

Seconds later, the two KGB come out. This time, only Andrei

takes after Ramirez. Ivan gets into a taxi which heads in an

opposite direction.

EXT. STREET OUTSIDE MANSION - NIGHT

Reaching the mansion, Ramirez discreetly steals his way toward

its back wall. Then, just as slyly as he earlier had

materialized, he disappears.

ON VLADIMIR AT HIS POST

Watching Ramirez vanish into the mansion wall.

EXT. RAMIREZ'S HIDING PLACE - NEAR MANSION - NIGHT

He lies in the thick bushes, completely obscured from anyone's

view and now he removes the blond wig and the rest of his

disguise. Underneath his "disguise" clothes, he is wearing a

pair of black jeans and black T-shirt. He looks exactly like

Carlos now.

PRODUCTION NOTE: IT IS IMPORTANT TO UNDERSTAND WHAT IS GOING

ON HERE. THE REAL CARLOS HAS NOT DYED HIS HAIR BLOND. THIS

WAS NOT THE REASON FOR RAMIREZ PUTTING ON A BLOND WIG. THE

LOGIC HERE IS THAT IF THE "REAL CARLOS" WERE IN FACT GOING

TO A MEET WITH A CIA AGENT, HE WOULD HAVE PUT ON SUCH A

DISGUISE TO MAKE SURE HE WAS NOT SPOTTED BY THE RUSSIANS.

INT. BLACK VOLGA - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT

Jack takes off his disguise as he drives the Volga to the

appointed corner of Carlos' compound. He looks at his watch.

reads: 9:15 as he slows the car to a crawl.

EXT. RAMIREZ'S HIDING PLACE - NEAR MANSION - NIGHT

Ramirez watches as Jack cruises by.

INT. BLACK VOLGA - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT

Jack sees that Ramirez is not going to show.

INT. KGB HEADQUARTERS - EAST BERLIN - NIGHT CLOSE ON MONITOR

SCREEN

A head shot of Ramirez in his latest blond, bearded disguise.

Grainy and blurred at first, it's gradually being brought

into sharp focus.

PULL BACK to reveal a GROUP OF MEN closely watching the screen

of an impressive, state-of-the-art computer. We recognize

only one of them. Andrei. At the computer's sophisticated

keyboard -- manipulating the images on the screen -- are TWO

TECHNICIANS in white overalls. Right behind them stands the

Head KGB Officer from Moscow and his Aide.

ON SCREEN

It bisects, to allow a picture of the real Jackal (the

splitting image of Ramirez) to appear on the right half of

the screen.

BACK TO SCENE

The Head KGB Officer puts on his glasses and takes a closer

look at the monitor.

One of the two technicians toys with the keyboard.

CLOSE - SCREEN

The beard and moustache on Ramirez' disguised image slowly

disappear. The two faces look very similar.

CLOSE - SCREEN

A huge nose covers the entire left half of the screen.

ZOOM

The upper part of the nose only. And... the incriminating

hairline where the bogus schnoz had been superimposed on the

real one.

As the aquiline nose assumes the shape of the Jackal's --

the hair changes both color and form to match his -- the two

faces on the screen become identical.

The Head KGB Officer turns to his Aide.

EXT. MANSION - NIGHT ON MANSION GATE

It opens slowly. One by one, a half dozen MFS -- including

the two we've seen earlier -- sneak out. Just as furtively,

armed KGB -- led by the Head KGB Officer and his Aide move

in through the still-open door.

EXT. RAMIREZ'S HIDING PLACE - NEAR MANSION - NIGHT

He watches the KGB men enter the compound.

INT. MANSION

Meeting no resistance on the ground floor -- whose security

apparently has been the task of the MFS -- the intruders

climb the open, spiral staircase. They move cautiously,

silencer-equipped weapons in hand.

ANGLE

Reaching the upper floor, they hear the muffled sound of

RHYTHMIC MUSIC coming from the far end of the hallway to

their right. The Head KGB Officer motions his Aide to move

into the corridor to their left. He does, taking three KGB

with him. Four others -- including Andrei and Ivan -- follow

the Head KGB Officer into the hallway to their right.

INT. HALLWAY

It's long, with several rooms on each side. As Vladimir moves

gingerly into the first one, Ivan covers him from the door.

INT. ROOM

Illuminated only by the light which filters through the open

door, the room is quite dark. A faint sound of SNORING reaches

Andrei from the bed closest to the door. Quickly there, his

arm goes up. Then, for a split second, the flash of metal as

the knife comes down hard. The victim's last MURMUR. Followed

by the SOUND OF MOVEMENT at the other bed.

ANGLE

In the beam of Ivan's flashlight, a waking JAPANESE is

reaching for his gun. Pffft. Pfffft. And he too falls back

to sleep. Eternally.

INT. ANOTHER ROOM - MANSION

TWO more JAPANESE in the midst of a Go game meet the same

fate. A burst from Head KGB Officer's automatic finishes

them off.

INT. HALLWAY AND OTHER ROOMS - MANSION

Doing away with several more of Carlos' multinational gang,

the five KGB finally reach the room with the large, heavy

French doors at the end of hallway.

INT. OUTSIDE CARLOS' BEDROOM

Quietly approaching the carved-wood doors, a KGB tries the

knobs. The doors are locked. Suddenly, the pulsating LATIN

BEAT which emanated continuously from behind the doors, stops.

ON HEAD KGB OFFICER

He's startled by the sudden silence.

Not wasting any time, Andrei and Ivan kick the doors open.

Diving to the side, they cover the other two KGB who storm

in with their Kalashnikovs very much at the ready.

INT. CARLOS' BEDROOM - MANSION ON CARLOS' BED

The voluptuous blonde -- her body glazed with post-coitus

sweat -- is paralyzed with fear; covering her prized assets

seems the last thing on her mind. She gapes at the KGB

marauders with wide, blue eyes. Not so, Ramirez's look-alike.

Caught reaching from under the sheets to replace the tape in

the stereo by the bed, he instinctively tries for his gun.

ON HEAD KGB OFFICER

Standing at the door. His automatic no longer has a silencer.

ON CARLOS

Surprisingly, he seems quite relieved.

BACK TO SCENE

The Head KGB Officer motions to Andrei, who throws Carlos

his pants -- but not before checking to make sure there's no

weapon in them. He then hands the blonde -- who finally hides

her bazooms behind a sheet -- her clothes.

ON BLONDE

She's putting stockings on a pair of legs that could distract

even the most committed KGB.

ON IVAN AND VLADIMIR

With Kalashnikovs still trained on Carlos, they seem unable

to resist stealing glances at the blonde.

He seems truly eager to leave with them now, as if confident

he can prove his case. Dressed, with the exception of a

jacket, he casually grabs one which lies on a nearby chair.

Too late. The Scorpion machine-pistol is already out, spouting

deadly accurate fire. He kills the Head KGB Officer first,

then...

ON KGB

They drop like flies, their bullets hitting everything but

him.

ON BLONDE

Hysterical, she screams her healthy lungs out.

INT. HALLWAY - MANSION

Suddenly there's the sound of APPROACHING STEPS. The KGB are

down the corridor, rushing to the bedroom, led by the Aide.

ON CARLOS

He doesn't hesitate. Firing a few rounds at them, he sprints

toward the window and literally flies through its shattering

glass.

EXT. MANSION - TREES - NIGHT

Ramirez lies in some bushes about fifty yards from the house,

dressed in the black jeans and T-shirt. He hears the gunfire

from the mansion.

EXT. MANSION COURTYARD

It's a dark night, and only a few dim lights illuminate the

rather large back yard.

ON CARLOS

Landing in a bed of flowers, he rolls, and is quickly on his

feet with the machine-pistol in hand.

ON TWO ARMED KGB

Securing the courtyard, they rush to the spot where,

apparently, they'd seen him land. Carlos, however, is no

longer there.

ANGLE

Glued to the back of a tree, the Jackal cuts them down with

one short burst and goes for the KGBs who appear at the broken

window. As they take cover, he quickly confiscates a

Kalashnikov from the dead KGB closest to him and makes it to

the high wall which encircles the place.

Carlos climbs over the wall with the Kalashnikov and drops

outside the compound to the grass below.

ANGLE ON RAMIREZ IN THE GRASS

He sees to his horror that Carlos is getting away. He is

ready to scream, going crazy. He has no gun, he wouldn't

stand a chance against Carlos, but there is no way he is

going to let him get away, no way. He looks around for a

rock... anything.

There is nothing. Carlos turns his back. Ramirez sees his

chance, he gets up on one knee ready to make his move when

suddenly he sees two more KGB guys come running around the

wall of the compound.

ANGLE ON RAMIREZ

He mouths the words:

ANGLE ON CARLOS

He whirls and fires at the two KGBs who fall.

ANGLE ON RAMIREZ

He can't believe it. Carlos is getting away?

ANGLE ON CARLOS

He suddenly gets a look as if he feels someone's presence.

His eyes open wide and he starts to turn when Ramirez comes

flying out of the darkness and leaps on Carlos. The two are

dressed exactly alike. Carlos is hit from behind and is

stunned and drops the assault rifle.

Ramirez has Carlos down and is choking him. Carlos looks up

at him more shocked than anything else. Finally Carlos manages

to break the grasp and kicks Ramirez off. Now it is a dazzling

display of martial arts. Then Ramirez charges Carlos and

tackles him and the two go rolling off into the bushes and

darkness. When they roll out of the bushes we have no idea

which one is which or who we should be rooting for. Just

then Jack's Volga drives up at the side.

ANGLE ON THE TWO CARLOSES

They roll over onto the bodies of two dead KGB. There is a

Kalashnikov on the ground pointed into the Carlos on the

bottom's side. The Carlos who is on top manages to get his

finger over to the trigger and pulls it sending a burst into

the Carlos on the bottom's body. Just then the Carlos on top

looks up and sees Jack standing over him with a gun pointed

at him ready to shoot. In b.g. we HEAR cars with sirens

approaching. The Carlos on top looks over to Jack who is

ready to shoot him.

Jack just stares at him and then lowers his gun.

He turns around and starts to get into the Volga. The Carlos

on top, whom we just thought was Ramirez bends down and

reaches for the dead KGB's pistol.

ANGLE ON JACK

He gets that sixth sense feeling and turns around, his gun

raised and pointed at the man whose hand is now on the pistol.

Is it Carlos or Ramirez, who is standing there with pistol

in hand almost turned to Jack but still at a disadvantage in

this Mexican stand off.

The man with the pistol knows this is a password of some

kind and the look on his face betrays the fact that he doesn't

have an answer. Jack is just about to shoot him when a burst

of machine gun fire is heard from the approaching cars and

it rips into the tree next to Jack who dives for cover.

That act of self-preservation gives the man we now realize

is the real Carlos the chance he needs. With catlike grace

he dives, rolls and vanishes into the shadows. He has gotten

away and Jack has to decide whether to go after his quarry

or rescue his friend. He opts for the latter, scoops up

Annibal and throws him into the Volga and speeds off as cars

approach from the other side.

EXT. BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DAY - ESTABLISHING

INT. PRIVATE ROOM - BETHESDA NAVAL HOSPITAL - DAY

Ramirez is in bed, hooked up to all the monitors and tubes

and IVs but he is going to make it. Jack is there with him,

having just entered.

Jack nods his head. Ramirez almost breaks down in tears.

Jack crosses to him to comfort him.

EXT. MILITARY HOSPITAL - DAY

A car pulls up at the hospital and Maura gets out and enters

the hospital.

INT. RAMIREZ'S ROOM - DAY

Maura is there with Ramirez. He is in mid-conversation with

her. We don't know how long she's been there. He opens his

eyes.

She crosses to him and gently takes his hand in hers.

Maura looks at him imploring him with her eyes.

EXT. RAMIREZ HOME - VIRGINIA - DAY

We hear a phone ring and it is picked up.

We hear the voice of a friend of hers named GRACE.

We hear the phone hang up. We hear the sound of a door opening

and closing that leads into the garage from the house. We

hear the sound of a car door opening. And then the key turning

in an ignition. And then the door is blown off the garage as

we see the Ramirez family car burst into an inferno and blaze

away inside the garage in a fiery blast which would kill one

and all instantly.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

The cemetery is set up for a funeral. There are various Navy

officers and their families in the chairs. At the back of it

all stands Jack wearing sunglasses, his face a mask into

which it is impossible to read any emotion of any kind. There

are four graves and four coffins, two adult-sized and two

small ones. Admiral Crawford addresses the mourners.

ANGLE ON JACK

He whispers to himself as he takes off his sunglasses.

EXT. ST. MARTIN - DAY

It is a beautiful island community with clusters of villas

overlooking a magnificent coastline. A postal truck winds

its way towards one of the houses.

The POSTMAN gets out of his truck and crosses to the door of

the house. He knocks on the door. The door opens... it is

Ramirez... or Carlos... we don't know which. He wears shorts

and a shirt.

The Postman hands the man an envelope. He signs for it and

opens the envelope. It is a newspaper clipping...

ANGLE ON THE NEWSPAPER CLIPPING

The headline is: NAVAL OFFICER AND FAMILY KILLED IN FIERY

CRASH. There is a handwritten note attached. It says, "Rest

in Peace."

He tips the postman and closes the door.

INT. HOUSE - ST. MARTIN - DAY

Mendoza crosses into the house holding the newspaper clipping.

He takes a cigarette lighter and burns it and across his

face there is a hint of a smile... a very cold smile. He

crosses out to the veranda. Down on the beach below, we SEE

Maura and the baby and Joey playing.

We now know the man is Ramirez. He walks down the steps of

his house to the beach to his wife and his children as we:

EXT. MEDICAL BUILDING - SUDAN - DAY

WE SUPER the following: SUDAN 1994

Two bodyguard types wait outside the building at the entrance.

An old man who walks with a cane and whose face is horribly

disfigured by burns hobbles in to the medical building. He

passes a plaque on the wall that says in English and Arabic:

We SUPER THE FOLLOWING:

NO FURTHER ACTS OF TERRORISM WERE EVER ATTRIBUTED TO CARLOS

AGAIN. HE MOVED TO YEMEN, THEN JORDAN, THEN SYRIA AND FINALLY

TO THE SUDAN.

INT. REST ROOM - MEDICAL BUILDING - SUDAN - DAY

The old man locks the door and stands in front of the mirror.

He pulls off the burn makeup and scalp wig and we see that

he is Carlos. Several years older, but unmistakable. He takes

off the old man's clothes and stuffs them in a trash can and

underneath he wears the black jeans and T-shirt. Then he

straightens up and exits the rest room.

INT. CORRIDOR BETWEEN RESTROOM AND DR.'S OFFICE - MEDICAL

BLDG. - DAY

Carlos walks down the corridor and enters the medical suite

of Doctor Wasfi Muhammed. There is a plaque on the door which

says, DR. WASFI MUHAMMED, M.D., PhD, Cosmetic and Plastic

Surgery.

INT. DR. MUHAMMED'S OFFICE - SURGERY SUITE - DAY

This is a surgery suite complete with gas anesthetic, a kind

of high-tech barber chair that reclines for full surgery,

gleaming scalpels, etc. DR. MOHAMMED is there with Carlos.

The Doctor is hastily washing his hands.

He turns around to look into the barrel of Carlos' drawn and

cocked .38 automatic.

EXT. MEDICAL BUILDING - SUDAN - DAY

The scene is as before. The two bodyguards stand watch.

Suddenly a car pulls up. Another bodyguard gets out and out

of this car steps Carlos. The bodyguards acknowledge him as

he enters the building.

INT. DR. MUHAMMED'S OFFICE - SURGERY SUITE - DAY

Carlos leans back in the surgery chair. There is an IV

attached to his arm. A Doctor in a surgical mask stands over

him.

He pulls down his surgical mask and Carlos looks up at his

own face. It is Ramirez. He holds Carlos, who struggles

against the anaesthetic. Suddenly, a second pair of hands

grab Carlos as well. It is Jack.

EXT. REAR OF MEDICAL BUILDING - SUDAN - DAY

An ambulance is pulled up at the rear entrance and two

attendants push a gurney out of the building with a patient

whose face is covered by an oxygen mask. The two attendants

push the gurney into the ambulance and race off.

CARLOS WAS FINALLY ARRESTED IN THE SUDAN AND FLOWN TO FRANCE

TO STAND TRIAL IN AUGUST OF 1994.

As the ambulance pulls off with its siren blaring, WE CONTINUE

WITH THE CRAWL:

INTELLIGENCE SOURCES BELIEVE HE WAS TRADED TO THE FRENCH BY

THE SUDANESE GOVERNMENT IN A BID TO OBTAIN WESTERN AID. THERE

ARE RUMORS THAT TWO RETIRED CIA AGENTS PLANNED AND EXECUTED

HIS CAPTURE.

