INT. FIRE STATION 17 - STORAGE ROOM - 20 YRS. EARLIER

Darkness. Then the GLINT of a flashlight. Its beam rocks

crazily to and fro across the inside of a small storage room

as we hear two children arguing.

It's hard, but we get a sense of the room in the whipping

beam of light. Huge, dark coats lined up like sides of beef

on steel batons. Bent, stained helmets hung like African

masks.

Beneath them BRIAN, 7, and STEPHEN, 12, are trying to struggle

into a pair of the ludicrously massive coats over their

pajamas.

The door suddenly opens, morning sunlight roaring in. It's a

fire station storage room full of fire gear. A fireman stands

in the doorway, tall, athletic, their father; DENNIS

McCAFFREY.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY

The two boys tromp out of the closet. The rubber turn-out

boots are as high as their thighs. The ends of the coats

drag on the floor. They salute, Brian's arm just an empty

sleeve. Dennis kneels down and re-fastens Brian's coat.

-- The station suddenly fills with the BELLOW of an ALARM

KLAXON.

A young fireman, ADCOX, appears with the dispatch card.

Dennis scoops Brian up and loads him into the fire engine

cab. The other three firemen climb aboard and take their

places.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY

There's a cough of diesel, a crunch of gears, and the engine

is pulling out of the station.

Brian stamps his foot on the siren button. The red light

snaps on, the siren growls and blares, and they're off down

the street. Brian turns around in his seat and, at the last

instant before the corner, makes eye contact with his older

brother.

They stick their tongues out.

EXT. CHICAGO STREET - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER

The engine howls its way through the city. Brian, sandwiched

between his father and Adcox, looks out in wonderment at

intersections zipping past like picket fences, at people on

sidewalks holding hands over their ears, at the red emergency

lights bouncing crazily off shop windows.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER

Lazy smoke curls out the second story of a commercial block.

Medium deal. The engine pulls up and the firemen are jumping

off like ship rats. Dennis opens his door, hops down, and

pauses just long enough to point a serious finger at his

son.

Brian nods vigorously, taking the command seriously. Dennis

smiles and is off, dragging a hoseline with his crew toward

a doorway they disappear into. Brian climbs down from the

cab.

Brian smiles to the pumper operator. He just wants a better

look. And he gets it: Smoke turned evil and dark now, taking

on purpose.

EXT. BUILDING - DAY - 20 YRS. EARLIER

There's a level of apartments above the storefronts. As Brian

watches, a window opens and out steps his father and Adcox

onto a small fire escape. Their attention's on the next window

over, out of reach, wrapped in leaky smoke.

Suddenly Dennis climbs up onto the fire escape railing, armed

with only an axe, and JUMPS across to the next metal balcony.

A ballsy, dangerous move. He kicks in the window, breaks out

the frame with his axe, and dives in.

A beat later he reemerges on the balcony with a terrified,

smudged little girl. He hands the little girl over the railing

to a fireman now coming up the more traditional way -- a

ladder.

Dennis's face lifts and grins at Brian; dirty, bigger than

life, invincible. He winks a wink only possible between

fathers and sons and he's gone again, back into the swirling

darkness. As Brian stands there, full of love, full of pride,

he sees a piece of awning along the roofline crack; releasing

a sickly yellow tongue of flame that slinks over the roof.

The flame seems to pause, to stare at Brian a beat. Shhh,

don't tell anyone. Brian is transfixed, his little head

staring up in astonishment.

Nobody else has noticed it.

Brian can see his father and Adcox through the window;

probing, looking for the flame lurking just above. Brian

starts to call out in a small, hesitant voice,

He tries to call louder... But suddenly everything is

happening very fast in slow motion:

-- Brian can see Adcox testing the ceiling with a pike pole

as Brian steps forward, under the power of a flame that

beckons him as --

Dennis suddenly THROWS his body against Adcox, knocking him

clear just as a flame EXPLODES DOWNWARD from the ceiling

fully against him as -- All the building's windows BLOW OUT

and it's like the sky's erupted for Brian, a burning hailstorm

that falls and pelts the ground around him. Plaster, wood,

and something metal that cracks against the pavement and

spins slowly.

A fire helmet.

And Adcox is coming out the door now, blackened and torn,

hopeless tears streaming down his face.

And, spotting Brian, he runs towards him. And the helmet

spins and spins and Adcox keeps running, and the sky is

raining fire, and the flame on the roof has risen up now to

its full, horrifying size and it's laughing now, laughing at

the little boy as the helmet finally stops spinning, and we

read the printing on the neck guard.

MCCAFFREY

And Adcox is sobbing and has his arms around the boy,

protecting him from the fire, the world, but it's like Brian

doesn't see him. He pulls away from Adcox, walks up to his

father's helmet, And puts it on.

The scene EXPLODES with a flash as a photographer captures

the instant.

INT. SEEDY APARTMENT - DAY

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BRIAN'S CAR - DAY

Hold on the freeze-frame. Let it become an aged cover of

LIFE. The magazine jiggles and rocks and we see now it's

sitting atop a box of knick-knacks jostling in the back seat

of an aging BMW. There's plenty of other boxes here, a live

on the move, and in the driver's seat, BRIAN McCAFFREY, now

27. There's piles of empty burger wrappers, Coke cans, and

Florida knick-knacks on the dash board; a little blow-up

palm tree, a cheesy hula girl emblazoned with "McCaffrey

High-End Stereo Sales".

EXT. HIGHWAY - MONTAGE - DAY

Brian and his battered BMW shoot past prairie, cow country,

nervous suburbs and finally a sign: WELCOME TO CHICAGO.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Wind tugging at his bangs, Brian stares down at the graves

of Dennis and Mary Elizabeth McCaffrey.

INT. CHICAGO GAS STATION RESTROOM - DAY

In a crusty sink he combs his hair, knots a tie around his

neck.

EXT. CHICAGO FIRE DEPARTMENT TRAINING ACADEMY - DAY

Brian walks through its sculpted columns, straightening his

tie. He comes to a door, FIRE ACADEMY CHIEF. He takes a deep

breath, steadies his gaze, and enters.

INT. FIRE ACADEMY CHIEF'S OFFICE - DAY

The ACADEMY CHIEF sits at his desk going over a file. Out

the window can be heard a FIRE TRAINING CLASS in action.

Brian's sitting in the seat opposite.

As we hear the BLOW OF A WHISTLE

EXT. CHICAGO FIRE DEPT. TRAINING ACADEMY - GRADUATION DAY

And everybody lined up at attention in dress blues.

Candidates and their relatives CHEER and leap to their feet.

Something struggles inside of Brian. He doesn't stand at

first. Another Candidate, TIM, 20, looks at him strangely.

So does the Academy Chief, his eyes finding Brian's. And

Brian's standing slowly now, joining them...

EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

An expensive one. We hear a window BREAK.

INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Through the dimness a file cabinet. An AXE SUDDENLY SLAMS

into it, RIPPING it apart. Files crash to the floor. And a

picture. 1970. Four young guys marlin fishing. Time of their

lives.

INT. BROWNSTONE BEDROOM - NIGHT

And a GREY PUTTY being SLAPPED along the edges of a door.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

A split-level firemen's dive; complete with mounted axes and

personalized T-shirts from various engine companies proudly

declaring "LADDER CO. 6 -- AXE FIRST, HOSE LATER" and "CHICAGO

FD, 150 YEARS OF TRADITION UNIMPEDED BY PROGRESS".

Tonight the place is firmly in the hands of an army of

recently graduated candidates. A few on the back patio have

hooked up a charged hoseline and are taking potshots at

balloon targets, each other, the neighbor's cat. Brian and

Tim, still in their uniforms, enter from the street. Survey

the scene.

As they shoulder their way inside, another CANDIDATE appears

holding proudly a fistful of sealed envelopes.

Tim and everyone else but Brian eagerly tear into them. Brian

nonchalantly shoulders up to the bar.

The barkeep turns and smiles.

The candidates are ripping open their assignments, exclaiming

to each other: "All right! Engine 117! That's a slum! They

get cookers every day!". "Oh no, Engine 10, that's a nice

neighborhood"...

Willy turns to the bulletin board behind him and unpins a

stack of business cards.

Tim holds an envelope marked McCAFFREY out to Brian.

On Brian's reaction

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

A Porsche knifes through darkened streets. The DRIVER, 50,

is dressed for success. Pulling up to the brownstone we saw

earlier, he gets out and rubs his eyes. Another day in the

salt mines.

Climbing the short stairs, he sticks his key into the lock

and opens the door. It is the last thing he will ever do.

A THUNDERING EXPLOSION ENGULFS the stoop.

INT. PUB - NIGHT

The place is packed now with girls flirting with the

candidates, putting their helmets on, etc. The horseplay

around the bar suddenly stops at the sweet sound of a SIREN.

EXT. PUB - NIGHT

Everyone steps outside, cocks an ear. And here it comes, the

real thing, SCREECHING past in a full-tilt rush. Shouts and

raised toasts.

As Brian turns, he suddenly confronted by an elderly

LITHUANIAN WOMAN.

She grabs his cheeks and rattles off in Lithuanian. Brian

can only smile. Then two attractive jean-clad legs step up.

JENNIFER.

Just then, Tim OPENS UP the hoseline, DRENCHING Brian.

Brian ducks the stream and PULLS a length of hose near his

feet, FLIPPING Tim. Brian JUMPS him, shuts off the hose and

pins him to the pavement.

Brian walks back toward Jennifer

She turns to leave.

Another in a series of fire engines HOWL past. Tim grabs

Brian by the shoulder.

EXT. STREETS - NIGHT

Brian and Tim jump into Brian's car. They shoot blindly down

the street looking for the fire engine, running down red

lights or anything else that gets in their way. Brian suddenly

hits the brakes, SCREECHING to a stop. They roll down their

windows. Far off can be heard the wind-up of a siren.

EXT. STREETS - FIRE ENGINE - NIGHT

SCREECH. They fly around a corner, down a block, and there

it is, lights flashing up ahead. Brian GUNS it, roars up

alongside the fire engine. Tim leans out the window, shakes

a bottle of beer, and lets loose a foamy eruption in the

truck driver's face.

But he's laughing.

EXT. BROWNSTONE - WALTON AVENUE - NIGHT

As Brian and Tim pull up two engine companies are already

dragging lines toward the rolling brownstone we saw explode

earlier. Tim cheers the firemen on like a drive-in movie.

Brian watches the fire with uneasy fascination. Embers

whipping into the night, drifting to the ground around him.

One of the engine companies is entering the doorway now. He

watches as they willingly crawl into a place any sane person

would run for their life from. Jesus Christ. FLASH -- Brian

turns at the blinding snap of a camera. Several locals are

gathered around a parked car, some taking pictures. Brian

notices that right away. It takes a beat longer to notice

the CHARRED CORPSE stuffed head-first through the windshield.

It's the Porsche driver, his legs sticking out at crazy

angles. A dog barks furiously at it.

The brownstone fire quickly transforms itself into noisy

clouds of dirty white steam. And one of the firemen is coming

back out now, walking toward Brian.

When he's just a few yards away he pulls off his air mask

and helmet and we shudder with Brian, because the man is a

dead ringer for HIS FATHER.

He pats Brian's cheeks, leaving behind large charcoal smears.

And Stephen turns for his own men, Tim staring at Brian as

clouds of smoke drift past like ghosts.

EXT. BROWNSTONE - ACROSS THE STREET - NIGHT

A flame LEAPS up into the foreground. Touches a cigarette.

The cigarette glows, lingers, then lowers slowly from the

mouth of RIMGALE, fifty-five years old and six and a half

feet of solid granite. Wearing a windbreaker and grey slacks

tucked into fire department rubber boots, he takes another

slow drag. Looks at the body stuffed into the windshield.

It's twenty yards away from the brownstone. Stephen looks up

as Rimgale drops the cigarette, crushes it with his boot,

and crosses the street to the building.

INT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Charred walls hiss and snap in the steamy darkness. Rimgale

is there, gloomy in the beam of his flashlight. He crouches

down, plays his flashlight along the ruined baseboard.

Stephen is leaning in the doorway, watching him.

Rimgale's flashlight finds a wall socket that he pries loose

and holds up to the light. He lowers it, takes in the walls,

the room.

EXT. BROWNSTONE - NIGHT

Tim's talking to his cousin. Brian hangs back, watches the

body-bag people load the Porsche driver into a meat wagon.

There's a still an audience for this, still stray dogs

circling and barking. Brian walks up, looks inside the car,

and sees on a seat the ragged remains of a FINGER.

They're already climbing into the wagon. The driver smiles

creepily.

Brian looks across the fireground, sees his brother walking

back to the fire engine. They share a brief, edgy glance.

EXT. HOUSE - DAY

A modest one. South-side Irish old fashioned. Brian walks

up. There's a little kid, about five, playing with a toy

fire truck on the drive.

The kid stares at him without a glimmer of recognition.

He makes his hand into a talking puppet.

The kid drops his toy truck and flees inside.

INT. HELEN'S HOUSE

Brian follows, sticks his head in the door.

A warm looking woman, 30's, HELEN, comes around the corner.

She gives him a tentative hug.

Helen's expression suddenly saddens.

The little kid is peeking fearfully from the kitchen doorway.

And the kid runs unexpectedly away, angry.

An embarrassed sting.

EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - MARINA - DAY

A small one on the river. Several boats bob peacefully. Except

one. Raised high in dry-dock, it's an ancient fishing trawler.

Bachman-Turner-Overdrive drifts up from the galley on badly

fuzzed speakers as Brian climbs the ladder.

Stripped to the waist, Stephen's bent-over cleaning out the

guts of the inboard motor. He looks confused to see Brian.

Wrong thing to say. Stephen turns back to his work.

Stephen straightens up, his forearms smudged with grease.

Brian admires the unwashed cereal bowls and peeling deck

paint.

Stephen tosses him a beer from the fridge. As Brian pops it,

he sees the small pile of city-issue gallon size cans in the

corner. Armorall, solvent, extinguisher foam.

Brian winces at the music coming out of shot speakers.

Brian lifts one of the tapes -- an 8-track -- and holds it

carefully in his palm as if it were a rare and fragile relic.

INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY

Brian opens the trunk of his old BMW. It's full of stereo

boxes marked BRIAN'S "SOUND SPECTRUM".

INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - CABIN - DAY

Brian's gutted the speakers and is re-wiring them.

Brian moves over to another speaker.

Brian staples the last of the audio cord in place and switches

on the tape player. The cabin fills with sharp, crystal clear --

Stephen Bishop.

EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - DAY

Brian climbs down off the boat. Looks up at Stephen.

INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - MORNING

A simple one-room walk-up. A stereo blares Chicago blues as

Brian buttons up his uniform in the mirror. He steps back,

looks at himself, -- and oh man what the hell am I doing...

EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - STREET - MORNING

Brian climbs into his car, turns the key -- nothing. He gets

out, looks under the hood, then SLAMS it down in frustration.

INT. ELEVATED TRAIN - MORNING

A pissed-off Chicago, hauling itself off to work in the

morning snap, passes by Brian's window. Tough Midwestern

brick. Tough Midwesterners. Heads-down in their 150 year war

with a wind committed to pushing the whole damn thing into

Lake Michigan.

EXT. EL STATION - MORNING

The train clacking away above him, Brian walks down the

sidewalk carrying his fire equipment. He turns a corner and

comes on.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - MORNING

Brian stands there. It's his dad's station. Turn of the

century abused. Sooty with stone gargoyles and a pair of

faded red doors that suddenly CRANK OPEN as Brian comes up

the drive. Fire engine 17 and ladder truck 46, lights

flashing, pull out onto the apron.

The fireman sticking his head out of the passenger window is

Stephen. One look at the silver trumpet on his collar and we

know this isn't Fireman McCaffrey but Fire LT. McCaffrey.

Tim, in ladder truck 46, waves a small bye-bye as both rigs

begin heading down the street.

Brian bolts full-out for the engine. At the last instant

before he falls on his face a fireman reaches out and drags

him aboard.

INT./EXT. FIRE ENGINE 17 - DAY

It's Adcox, the fireman from the first scene, now a veteran.

The Pumper driver, SCHMIDT, pops in a howling ROCK TUNE as

they zoom off.

Brian shouts over the noise to GRINDLE, 35, one more seat

down.

Grindle sticks his nose out the window, sniffs, then begins

buckling up his coat.

As Brian and Adcox fasten up their own equipment --

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

Smoke pours with confused indecision from every window of a

five story factory as the pumper and ladder company pull up.

Everyone begins strapping on air tanks and masks. Adcox drags

the rig's suction line to the hydrant. A beautiful illegally

parked Mercedes is blocking the way.

Whistling to himself, Adcox SMASHES the brass coupling through

the passenger window, runs the line through and SMASHES it

out the other window before connecting up to the hydrant.

Stephen and Grindle pull hose off the bed and move out.

Brian's so jacked up he can't get his air tank on right.

Schmidt calmly helps him into his gear.

Stephen, Adcox and Grindle are crouched at the door, ready

to go. Brian takes a hose roll and runs to catch up when

he's cut-off by dazed Latin workers shouting incoherently at

him in SPANISH.

Brian pushes past the workers and takes his position on the

hose line. Stephen reaches over and re-adjusts Brian's air

tank strap.

Stephen eases the door open. Thick smoke rolls sickly out

over their heads.

And in they go...

INT. BURNING FACTORY - DAY

Inside the smoke is like liquid lead. Going by feel, they

hump the hose up one staircase after another, crawling on

their hands and knees toward a dull red glow. Turning a

corner, they enter

INT. BURNING FACTORY - A VAST ROOM - DAY

Totally ablaze. Brian looks up in wonder at the buffeting

waves of flame in the ceiling, at the SCREECHING timbers

crumbling to the white-hot floor. At the walls HOWLING in

bestial agony. It is the most horrifying, and wonderful thing

he has ever seen.

Adcox and Grindle shrug and pull their helmets down tight,

expecting the worst. Adcox opens up the nozzle, turning loose

a high pressure BLAST OF WATER into the ceiling. The fire

SCREAMS in manic anger and HEAVES a cloud of HOWLING steam

that WHIRLS back and BAKES them like lobsters. Brian gasps

for air as swirling ash batters his facemask. A window

somewhere EXPLODES. Somebody shouts. Christ, you can't see

anything. Stephen HOOPS in victory.

The chase is on! Going for the throat while the fire's

confused and defensive, the firemen SCRAMBLE through the

boiling cloud. They hit it in the ceiling, in the walls,

forcing it back and back. It HOWLS and CLAWS in anger,

furiously throwing cinders and broken timbers in their faces.

The walls ECHO with its SCREAMS as it retreats to a corner.

Brian runs back to the wall to hook up his hose roll to the

building water system. He goes to unscrew the cap with his

hydrant wrench but it keeps slipping off the nut.

Brian finally gets it hooked up and runs back.

EXT. FACTORY - OTHER SIDE - DAY

Tim and three guys from his ladder company, come up an

extended aerial ladder, CRASH through a window and

INT. FACTORY - DAY

begin HACKING their way toward Brian's company as -- BOOM!

It's a sudden, shattering vibration that shakes the building

to its foundations. Then, a sucking sound: RUSH-RUSH-RUSH...

Stephen speaks calmly into his radio handset.

The firemen hesitate. PENGELLY, the Truck Company Lt., looks

at Stephen with concern.

The crews immediately gather in the center of the floor.

They turn over tables, chairs, anything to form a barrier. A

circling of the wagons. -- BOOM! rush-rush-rush -- BOOM!

Each louder than the last. Stephen and Brian are ducked behind

an overturned desk. Adcox and Krizminski clutch hoselines

like frontiersmen's Winchesters.

-- rush-rush-rush -- CRAAAASH!! On an instant the world comes

apart as all four walls of factory windows EXPLODE in a hail

of glass. A wave of HOWLING FLAME POURS IN after it, SHRIEKING

and HISSING.

At the same moment, part of the floor beside a heavy sewing

machine GIVES WAY and a ladderman, SANTOS, FALLS THROUGH,

grabbing the edges at the last minute as flames BELLOW UP

from underneath. He SCREAMS as his grip loosens.

Grindle leaps to the ladderman's side, grabbing his arms and

coat. Brian hesitates just an instant and Stephen SHOVES him

out of the way to back up Grindle.

Adcox's taken the hoseline and is opening fire. Water and

flame crash and snarl across the floor in a blood curdling

ROAR. It's a thrashing, murderous standoff.

Stephen and Grindle have got Santos but the angle's bad.

Blow it now and all three could take a header. Santos is

panicking, losing his grip. Grindle bores his eyes into the

man's with the calm and conviction of Moses.

They may all die, but they won't leave him. He calms a little,

hangs on till they PULL him out of harm's way. Adcox continues

with the hose as suddenly, everyone HITS the deck as the

fire EXPLODES over them, BURSTING their coats into flame.

Tim's company opens up their line, WASHING everybody down

before CHARGING after the fire. A ladderman, NIGHTENGALE,

steps on Brian's back.

Brian, stunned, sits up, his coat and helmet smoking. Stephen

seems totally unaffected and is already on his feet and over

the top of the barricade, the others backing him as he

mercilessly drives the fire back, trapping it finally into a

corner. The fire hisses, spits, shakes the walls with its

furious anger. But it's all bluster now, the fire's dying.

Adcox leads Tim downstairs. Brian looks shaken up. Stephen

helps him roughly to his feet.

Brian burns at that and shakes his brother's arm off.

Brian's walking over to clear the hoseline when he hears it.

small voice. Faint. "Help me..."

Nobody hears. -- Brian takes off down the other steps on his

own.

INT. BURNING FACTORY - DOWNSTAIRS

It's only the fire's ghost here, lazy and slow.

Off the corridor are rooms full of commercial sewing machines.

Brian enters one and drops to his knees.

Looks under a table, flashes his light behind a work stand.

Nothing. He turns to backtrack his way out when A TONGUE OF

FLAME suddenly LEAPS up through the floor in front of him,

cutting off the door. Brian lands on his ass as it hisses

and giggles and dances unreally in front of him.

I never forget a face, kid. -- That fire from childhood. He

could maybe force his way through but Jesus, the way it looks

at him --

-- Brian ROLLS away from it. Looks for another doorway --

And ends up in thick smoke. He drops to a crawl, stays on

his belly where the air's clear. When he sees it. Behind

some furniture. Something flesh-colored. Shit. It's a body.

He crawls up closer. It's a woman. Adrenalin pounding the

top of his skull off, he grabs her and stumbles back down

the hall, makes a turn --

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

-- And now he's bursting from the building onto a short fire

escape, shouting at the top of his lungs.

A sea of media flashbulbs ERUPTS in his face. The press have

arrived in force, crowding the street. Brian pushes through

them to a clear spot on the far side of the engine. Two fire

paramedics rush over as he lowers the figure.

The paramedics suddenly stop their efforts. Turn to Brian.

They step aside. Brian looks down. The woman looks strange.

Mostly because she's a heavy store DRESSING DUMMY. The

paramedics burst into laughter. Brian, looking pale and

shaken, turns and walks away. He passes Grindle and Tim,

sitting on the pumper's tailboard helping the REAL woman

that was found inside.

Photographers have appeared and are flashing the woman. Dizzy,

Brian wanders off, tries to help out with the choking clog

of singed factory employees before finally turning quickly

into

EXT. FACTORY ALLEY - ACROSS THE STREET - DAY

Where he barfs his guts out in private. Doubled-over, one

arm on the brick wall for support, we see the raw terror.

The demons rushing out of him.

Someone else does too. Jennifer. Dressed now in a long

expensive coat, she's standing at the end of the alley with

a clipboard. Brian, ashes smeared across an ashen face,

spittle on his chin, doesn't notice her.

Stephen isn't pale. He's flushed and buoyant. All this hasn't

taken anything from him. It's made his day.

Stephen leans against the wall. Folds his arms.

Stephen turns to leave. Brian yells after him.

Stephen turns to walk away. Pauses.

As Stephen leaves, we see that Jennifer's been standing at

the end of the alley, listening to them. She's turns and

walks as Brian looks up. We register his surprise. He watches

her head toward a dynamic-looking guy in his 40s, ALDERMAN

SWAYZAK, surrounded by reporters.

EXT. BURNED BUILDING - FRONT - DAY

She hands Swayzak a clipboard.

INT. BURNED BUILDING

Brian and the rest of the company rip open the walls and

beat the last weak flames in a final flurry of dingy sparks.

The moment the smoke clears just a fraction, cigarettes appear

in everyone's mouth. Was it good for you? The talk is easy

and obscene, the intense camaraderie of shared danger. Ash

clods are thrown playfully back and forth in the afterglow

of having taken on the worst there is and walking away one

more time.

Adcox sees Brian. Smiles.

Brian turns and sees out the window Jennifer and Swayzak

standing near Rimgale's red fire dept. sedan.

EXT. FACTORY - DAY

Rimgale walks up to his sedan.

Swayzak's leaning on it. We sense the dislike between them.

Swayzak steps aside. Rimgale pops the trunk.

Rimgale cuts him off with the shutting of his trunk lid.

And he walks back to the burned building.

Stephen's leaning out of an upstairs window. As the TV cameras

turn, he drops down onto a fire engine hose bed and pops

right into Swayzak's face with a murderous grin.

Grindle and Santos start walking for Stephen. Brian's there,

following after them.

Stephen silences Grindle with an outstretched hand. Swayzak

leans close, out of earshot of the cameras.

Swayzak holds his ground. It's a tense, out of control moment

between them. Rimgale turns from his work, watches Stephen

with concern. Adcox suddenly inserts himself face-to-face

with Swayzak and we see the raw hatred.

Swayzak holds Adcox's gaze, then turns for his car. Brian

watches Jennifer climb in beside her boss.

Jennifer shrugs as they pull away.

INT./EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - LATE DAY

Brian jumps down from the rig as it backs up the driveway.

Across the street a middle-aged woman flashes them from the

balcony of her apartment.

Adcox watches Brian and Tim exchange looks. Tim shrugs. Brian

sighs and pulls out the pike poles, starts across the floor

before freezing suddenly at a murderous GROWL. Brian turns

and sees a DOG. Sort of. It has the rib cage of a wild beast,

fangs, long greasy hair. It blocks his way, SNARLING with

hate.

Slobber drools out of its mouth as it GROWLS.

Brian wipes some of the crusted grime from his face, looks

back and forth between Franny and The Thing, and sighs.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - LOCKER ROOM

Brian enters, strips down his battered uniform, and opens

his locker. The mannequin from the fire SPRINGS OUT, legs

spread. A sign taped to its mouth says: "TAKE ME BRIAN, YOU'RE

MY SUPERMAN!"

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - WASHROOM

Brian and the others scrub the morning's fire off their bodies

in the station shower. Tim keeps filling his mouth full of

water and launching it upward in a stream.

Brian compares himself to the praise heaped on Stephen.

Brian shuts off his shower and walks out.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM

Stephen sits alone at his bunk, slowly stretching a strained

and ruined back. He blows out a long, tired breath, and begins

working ointment into an anciently scarred and battered knee.

On the wall is a small glass case full of station memorabilia

through the years. There's a two battered fire helmets there,

set reverently on velvet. Beside it is a photograph of his

father. Grinning. Top of the world. He's wearing a T-shirt

proudly stenciled FIGHTING 17th.

Father and son exchange a long, awkward greeting.

In the doorway, Brian stands watching his brother, who not

even 40, suddenly seems an old and broken man.

The ALARM KLAXON suddenly sounds. Brian, just in a towel and

Tim, in boxers covered with little dinosaurs, dash for the

fire pole.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR

Tim and Brian slide down and bounce off the floor.

Brian and Tim rush for their equipment. Grindle grabs their

arms.

He hustles them across the apparatus floor, through a doorway,

and into the kitchen.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - KITCHEN/DINING AREA

The makings of a meal are laid out on the counter. Brian and

Tim come to a screeching halt. The rest of the station is

sitting calmly at the kitchen table, watching.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - KITCHEN

Tim and Brian, still in their boxers, set down plates of

food.

Everybody digs in. The table is a craze of half a dozen

different conversations. On the TV mounted above on the wall

are news shots of Seagrave's body sticking out of the

windshield.

Adcox stands and tinks his glass with a spoon for silence.

Adcox puts his arm affectionately around the mannequin, seated

with honor at the head of the table. Right beside The Thing.

The klaxon suddenly rings. Two bells. The ladder guys groan

and get up.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - BUNKROOM

Dawn lightens the room as Brian slowly opens his eyes and

sees in extreme, fish-eyes close-up: THE THING GROWLING at

him. Brian turns the other direction and sees Stephen, fully

dressed, standing over his bunk.

INT. APPARATUS FLOOR

Bleary-eyed, the nine firemen line up raggedly in front of

their rigs, dressed like shit but for peaked uniform caps

they wear only at this moment. Stephen stands before them,

does a quick glance up and down the line.

They shuffle for the door. As Brian passes,

EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - MORNING

Stephen pulls up. Brian opens the door.

INT. RESTAURANT - RETIREMENT PARTY - NIGHT

That's been cleared out for a huge PARTY in full swing. An

Irish folk band cuts loose a merciless bagpipe beat. City

brass--including Alderman Swayzak -- a few reporters, firemen

and their families all mix together for this is a RETIREMENT

PARTY for the Captain Fitzgerald. Brian enters, seeks out a

beer at the bar. Stephen's there, swaying with what is clearly

not his first drink of the evening.

CHEERS as a one joke gift after another is laid on the Chief.

Stephen sees his ex-wife, Helen, dancing with another man.

He turns away.

Santos and Grindle walk up.

Stephen just shrugs.

Brian sees Jennifer across the room. She looks great. Refined

as she expertly works the room, schmoozing and hugging and

calling various politicos by their first name.

As she speaks to one, a waiter offers a drink. As she accepts,

a bottle appears over her shoulder and splashes it with red

syrup.

Her attention broken, the politico has slipped away. Annoyed,

Jennifer leads Brian aside and speaks low, but angrily at

him.

Jennifer instantly cuts off as a well-dressed COUPLE passes

and switches stunningly into schmmoze-mode.

They move away. Jennifer turns to Brian and switches just as

fast back to their argument.

Brian can't help it. He cracks up.

Brian turns and walks away.

ACROSS THE ROOM

Adcox is talking with another knot of firemen. He's brought

a date, SALLY, a hot little number that has a habit of

standing on her tip-toes when she talks.

There's a commotion at the other end of the bar. A group of

firemen have gathered around a weekly magazine.

As they hold it up to Stephen we see a photo spread titled

DARING FIRE RESCUE.

The first photo shows Brian rushing out of the burning

building with seemingly a woman in his arms. The second photo

shows the backs of Adcox and Tim's helmets as they

administered aid to the real woman they saved. The implication

is it's the same woman.

The old photo is there too. Brian and his dad's helmet.

Stephen glances over the headlines.

The other firemen jump in with drink orders. Dozens of them.

Tim shows him the magazine. Brian reads with horror as

Alderman Swayzak appears beside him.

Brian looks at Jennifer, then smiles at Swayzak.

-- A man suddenly steps between them to pump Swayzak's hand.

Brian shakes his head and walks away. Swayzak shoots a

concerned glance at Jennifer. She catches up with him at the

buffet table.

Across the room, Stephen's at the buffet, watching Helen

dance with her fireman date, the drinks hammering him hard.

Stephen gives Pengelly an icy, sideways look.

Stephen smiles and pushes off the bar -- right for Helen as

she dances.

Jackson steers her away but Stephen isn't done yet. He dogs

them.

Stephen suddenly PUNCHES Jackson.

And Stephen PLOWS into Jackson. Another fireman JUMPS to

Jackson's aid. And Brian's there, defending his brother,

PUNCHING OUT a fireman. The crowd finally pulls the two apart.

Stephen takes a step for the bar -- then suddenly turns and

JUMPS Jackson again. Brian pulls him off and drags him for

the door.

As Jennifer watches Brian lead Stephen out the door.

EXT. RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Brian leads Stephen toward his car.

Stephen pushes Brian away and promptly stumbles to the

sidewalk.

Brian stands there and folds his arms.

Brian lends an arm.

EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - NIGHT

Stephen throws an arm over Brian's shoulder as he leads him

up onto the boat.

INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT

Brian's flops his brother on the bed. Unties his shoes.

He clearly can't. Brian slips them off.

There's just a grim wall lamp above Stephen's face.

Brian turns off the dim light. Stephen's breathing deepens.

Brian tucks the blanket around him.

Stephen's voice drifts off into sleep. Brian watches a moment,

the rare look of peace on his brother's face, then leaves.

EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - NIGHT

Dark and still. Brian, carrying a roll of hose, scales the

chain link.

EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - EXERCISE GROUND - NIGHT

Is a practice stand-pipe. Brian counts down to himself, then

rushes the stand-pipe, spinning off the cap with a hydrant

wrench and attaching the hose coupling. He does it again,

over and over.

EXT. FIRE ACADEMY - DAWN

The sky's gone pink and blue as Brian climbs back over the

fence. Adcox, coming out of a donut shop across the street,

sees him.

EXT. STREET - CHICKEN ACCIDENT - DAY

A truck has JACKKNIFED across the avenue and SPILLED its

contents -- several THOUSAND baby chicks. They're scurrying

everywhere as Brian's company tries to round them up. It's

hopeless as the exhausted firemen stuff handfuls of the

cheeping cargo into their turn-out coats. There's ghetto

kids all around, grabbing at the chicks, grabbing at the

fire engine.

Brian stops a beat. Rubs his eyes.

Brian looks at him. Does he mean what he thinks he means?

Tim is coming out of a small store across the street. He

hands a small bag of groceries to Adcox.

Everyone grows suddenly silent.

EXT. WIDOW'S HOUSE - DAY

A fireman's without even saying so, "Petzold" on the mailbox,

Engine 17 parked out front. Brian's alone outside, cleaning

the diesel fuel off his arms. Watching a small kid playing

with a toy fire truck in the drive.

INT. WIDOW'S HOUSE

Tim and Brian are loading the groceries into the fridge.

Stephen and Grindle are fixing a loose cabinet door as Adcox

sits caulking a faucet fitting at the kitchen table with a

young WOMAN.

The sight of uniform is too much for her. Her eyes cloud.

Adcox reaches out and lets her weep on his shoulder.

EXT. WIDOW'S HOUSE - DAY

Adcox stands out at the fire engine smoking a cigarette,

lost in himself, watching the little boy play with his toy

fire truck. Stephen's followed him out.

Stephen leans down close.

A beat of understanding between them. Stephen looks back at

the house.

Adcox can't help but smile.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - DAY

As Brian and Tim scrub down the fire engine, the rest of the

company lies sprawled in

THE STATION REC ROOM

Watching a weepy soap. Schmidt walks through and is snared

by the TV's glow. He hesitates. Shares the moment.

A ladderman, WASHINGTON, walks in with a memo.

Everybody clasps Pengelly on the shoulder. "Way to go". "All

right, man". Brian turns and sees Stephen out on the apparatus

floor, watching. Watches. Pengelly's younger than him.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - TRAINING BUILDING/HOSE TOWER - DAY

An expanse of concrete lying out back of the station. Built

in one corner is the concrete shell of a five story training

building, just wide enough for a stairway and room on each

level. Twenty yards away, Brian, Tim and Adcox stand ready

beside a pile of coiled hose rolls.

Tim picks up a roll of hose, 50 pounds, throws it over his

shoulder and runs with Adcox to the foot of the building.

There's a fixed standpipe that Adcox ties into as Tim drags

the other end inside and up a flight of stairs.

Brian lifts another hose roll under his arm and runs for the

building.

Brian runs up two flights to meet Tim and connect his end.

Tim heads down for another roll as Brian drags his up another

two flights. It's a bitch.

Sweating, he barrels back down the stairs, passing Tim coming

up with another roll.

Tim flips him off. Brian laughs and sprints for another roll.

Brian holds it under his arm and takes off. Stephen grabs a

roll himself, hoists it to his shoulder and runs alongside.

Brian lifts it to his shoulder.

They come to the doorway. Instead of stopping, Stephen follows

Brian in and runs alongside up the stairs. Without a word

spoken it's become a race between them.

Brian's face explodes in sweat. His heart pounds as they go

up flight after flight. The hose rolls weigh a 100 pounds. A

thousand. Neck 'n neck all the way; grunting, their throats

burning, only one flight from the roof Stephen STUMBLES and

SCRAPES his leg. Brian pauses. Stephen's already back on his

feet.

Brian does, Stephen already gaining on him -- getting ready

to pass him -- when they burst gasping out onto the roof,

Brian the "winner" by a nose. Stephen drops his hose roll,

sticks his face into Brian's, -- And laughs. Unsure, Brian

starts to join in. Stephen stops suddenly.

Adcox and Tim, down below, have already disappeared back

into the station.

We see now what Stephen apparently doesn't. He was scraped

badly, his pant leg torn and leaking dark circles of blood.

Stephen turns and walks away. Brian stands there watching

him in blind fury, finally exploding.

An awkward beat between them that's interrupted suddenly by

the station alarm klaxon. Stephen smiles.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - HOSE TOWER - BELOW - DAY

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - NIGHT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. LAKE SHORE MANSION - FRONT DOOR

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY

Smoke and confusion. A MOTHER is screaming hysterically at

Stephen as he jumps down from the engine.

Stephen doesn't even pause and enters the building. Brian

hesitates a beat, then follows.

INT. TENEMENT BUILDING - DAY

Where they bomb up a staircase just as a WALL OF FIRE LASHES

DOWN, KNOCKING them on their ass. Stephen jumps to his feet

with an axe as Brian struggles to get up.

Stephen, with just his axe, CHASES up the stairs at the fire,

HAMMERING at the flaming boards. The fire retreats into

another room, SLAMMING the door shut behind it.

Brian struggles up the stairs. The two of them slide up on

either side of the closed door, Stephen cradling his axe

like a SWAT team shotgun. The door breathes in and out and

something animal scratches and snarls on the other side.

Brian can feel the panic rising in his throat. That thing

behind the door, that slobbering, evil thing. It wants out.

It wants... him.

Stephen HAMMERS the lock with his axe and KICKS the door

open. A WALL OF FLAME ROARS out past their cheeks, then

BACKWASHES in.

Stephen picks up the door, and using it as a shield CHARGES

into the flames. Brian tries to follow but the fire WELLS

UP, cutting him off. He hesitates. It's that goddamn flame

again, leering at him. Daring him. It BUCKS suddenly, DROPPING

Brian to his knee. He GROANS in pain.

-- And now Adcox and Grindle are coming up the stairs with a

hoseline WASHING DOWN the room. Clouds of furious steam bellow

out and across the ceiling. Nobody could be alive in there.

Except Stephen. His entire outfit smoldering, he emerges

from the clouds like a fucking god, carrying in one arm a

gasping child.

EXT. TENEMENT BUILDING - AFTERMATH - DAY

Most of the firemen have gathered together for post-fire

coffee and stories. Brian sits off alone on the fire engine

bumper, apart from them. Santos walks up.

Stephen walks up. Sits down beside him.

Brian lingers only a moment before standing.

Brian hands Stephen his helmet and walks away.

INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - DAY

There's only six like it in city hall, and this one has a

view.

INT. CORRIDOR/CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Jennifer comes out of Swayzak's office and walks down to her

own.

INT. JENNIFER'S OFFICE/INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - DAY

-- It's a tiny, bleak little rat hole. She picks up the

receiver...

We see Brian in his apartment.

Brian hangs up. He stares at it a moment, then SLAMS it

against the wall.

Jennifer stares at the phone with something almost like

sadness.

EXT. BROWNSTONE - DAY

Stephen drives past the burned-out brownstone that fried

Alan Seagrave. He parks in the alley behind, walks up the

building, and PULLS OFF a plywood sheet covering a blown-out

window.

INT. BROWNSTONE - DAY

Stephen walks through the creepy, brutalized silence. Back

to where Rimgale had focused his investigation that night.

He searches the floor, the wall, looking for something...

EXT. ARSON HQ/FIREHOUSE - DAY

A crumbling one in Chinatown. Brian checks the address on

his slip of paper. He stands there a beat, hating himself.

INT. FIRE STATION/ARSON HQ

It's a regular station but for the rear that has been

converted into arson squad offices. As Brian approaches the

office door he can see Rimgale sitting at his desk. Standing

nervously beside it is a fresh-faced, uniformed PROBIE.

The kid is dying a thousand deaths of humiliation.

The kid shuffles off hang-dog. Rimgale's angry gaze falls on

Brian.

And Rimgale walks into his office, leaving Brian marooned in

the doorway. Stepping behind a small partition, Rimgale

changes his shirt. Brian can just glimpse from where he stands

a horrible burn that has consumed most of Rimgale's stomach.

Rimgale catches the look.

Rimgale glances at his watch, puts on his coat, and picks up

a small paper bag.

INT. MAX SECURITY PRISON - DAY

And the face of RONALD, an unremarkable man in his 40s.

Unremarkable but for laser eyes and two heavily bandaged

hands. Go wide and find him sitting in an institutional chair --

handcuffed, actually -- in an institutional hall. A uniformed

guard stands nearby as Brian and Rimgale come down the

corridor. Ronald smiles upon seeing Rimgale.

Ronald's eyes pick up Brian's name on his prison ID badge.

Rimgale silences Brian with a threatening hand.

The cop helps Ronald to his feet and all four are marching

down the hall.

INT. PRISON - INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Ronald in the hot seat before a parole board, Rimgale and

Brian on the sidelines.

The parole board shuffles their papers. It's a done deal.

Rimgale suddenly stands and approaches Ronald.

A tortured look comes over Ronald's face. He's holding back.

From the paper bag, Rimgale suddenly tosses a burned baby

doll in his lap.

Rimgale then lights a cigarette lighter in Ronald's face.

The parole board stares, stunned. Rimgale stands.

EXT. THEATRE BUILDING - DAY

A pre-war theatre closed with a sign: UNDER RENOVATION --

OPENING XMAS 1991. DAVID BENTON, mid-forties, climbs out of

his car and walks to the entrance with some rolled-up

blueprints.

INT. THEATRE BUILDING - DAY

Benton walks through the vast theatre and up to a beautiful

Art Noveau office door: DAVID BENTON, PRIVATE. He goes to

insert his key. Drops it. As he reaches down, we see a tiny

wisp of smoke SUCK back under the door. Benton sniffs, as if

he smells something, then shrugs and inserts his key. It'd

have been a good story if he'd lived longer.

The moment he pushes the door open It EXPLODES OUTWARD in a

ROARING FIREBALL.

EXT. THEATRE BUILDING - SUNDOWN

Later and engine companies have already knocked down the

building fire as Brian climbs out of Rimgale's red sedan.

He starts handing Brian handfuls of equipment cases. Loaded

down, Brian follows Rimgale into the building.

INT. THEATRE BUILDING

Fire crews are at work in here, including Engine 17 at the

other end of the theatre. Brian's surprised to see them, his

eyes locking briefly with Stephen's. An ENGINE COMPANY LT.

walks up to Rimgale.

"Him" is our previous owner, David Benton, just his hands

and a leg showing from under the collapsed door. Rimgale

crouches beside it.

Brian does. The corpse's keys are still in the lock. So's

Benton. Blown with such force he seems fused with the door.

On the door's edge Rimgale notices a small patch of melted,

sticky goo. With his penknife he scrapes a sample and seals

it in a glass vial, stands, and walks into the office.

INT. THEATRE OFFICE

Rimgale, now inside, silences him with an outstretched arm.

Rimgale doesn't answer. His eyes drift over the scorched

walls as he speaks softly to them.

He scratches at some soot. Smiles and lifts a small hand

recorder.

Brian pulls it aside. The lower third of the wall is

completely untouched by soot.

There's some on the sill of a blown window. Brian hands a

shard to Rimgale, who turns it over in his palm.

Rimgale turns to the wall, a section where the plaster is

severely damaged. He probes with a penknife.

Rimgale follows the damaged wall down -- down -- to a melted

wall socket.

Brian chops it out from the wall. Rimgale crouches down,

peels back the melted faceplate and examines the wires. The

copper tip is severely melted. Rimgale sniffs the plug.

Rimgale shuts off the recorder. Stares down Brian.

Rimgale opens a plastic bag and puts the plug inside.

Rimgale stands and walks out.

INT. THEATRE BUILDING - NIGHT

Brian follows Rimgale down from the office into the vast

theatre. Walls hiss and spit. Brian's surprised to see his

former engine mates there, tromping and crunching their way

through broken glass, their flashlights like dancing

fireflies. Tim passes by.

Everybody turns at the voice and the air suddenly chills.

And Rimgale's off to another room. Brian turns and looks at

the wall. It's endless.

Silence. Brian looks over the wall. A dirty puddle separates

him from it.

Grindle stares at him a beat, then wordlessly steps into the

muck and pulls free a section of wall, dropping it on the

ground in front of Brian. Santos and Grindle look at each

other.

There's a pike pole leaning against the wall. Brian pulls it

aside. SPLASH -- The pole had been supporting a small, sagging

piece of ceiling that instantly collapses, dumping twenty

gallons of murky, putrid black water all over Brian's civvys.

Nobody laughs.

Stephen appears around the corner. Sees what's happened.

They leave. Brian stands there, humiliated.

Brian burns with shame and anger as Adcox walks away. Stephen

hands Brian a towel.

Brian snatches it from him. Glares at his brother.

Brian walks away. Stephen calls after him.

INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - DAY

Helen, Stephen's ex-wife, is sitting at her kitchen when she

looks up suddenly at a strange sound coming from the roof.

EXT. HELEN'S HOUSE - ROOF - DAY

On the short, sloping roof, Stephen stands hammering a shingle

back into place. Helen sticks her head out the dormer window.

He stops and tosses the hammer aside. Looks at his watch.

But she smiles.

Stephen sighs deeply.

He sighs and hops down from the roof to the driveway.

She watches him as he walks lonely up the street.

INT. CITY MORGUE - DAY

A Lab Tech, RICCO, leads Brian and Rimgale through the autopsy

area till they come on two corpses lying side by side covered

in plastic.

If you say so. Brian's stomach does a half-gainer as he's

confronted by two hideously charred bodies.

Brian is discreetly avoiding his gaze, whistling quietly to

himself as he looks over specimen jars on a shelf.

Ricco lifts Benton's charred shoulder. Underneath we see

some of his clothes that have melted and co-mingled with his

flesh.

A credit card has been fried right into Cosgrove's skin about

where his back pocket should have been.

Ricco erupts in a honking laugh, then switches instantly

back to a business tone.

With supreme reluctance Brian pulls the crisper's head and

shoulder away from the table.

Brian gathers the torso up and hoists him higher.

At that instant, Cosgrove's eyes OPEN and his body SIGHS.

Brian DROPS the body in shock and backs away, stunned.

INT. RIMGALE'S CAR - DAY

Rimgale's FD sedan. Brian is still wringing imaginary guts

off his hands. Rimgale tosses an open fire chem book in his

lap.

Rimgale CLAPS his hands next to Brian's head, STARTLING him.

Rimgale looks at Brian. He's getting tired of this.

INT. ARSON HQ - DAY

Brian's sitting at a desk. He's finishing up a huge paper

clip Tyrannosaurus. The phone RINGS.

We see Jennifer's calling from her office, she's busy signing

papers brought to her and okaying campaign posters as she

talks.

He tosses a paper airplane.

Brian hangs up quickly and walks back into

INT. ARSON HQ - ANOTHER ROOM - DAY

Rimgale's there, crouched excitedly beside a trash can that's

lid's been sealed closed. He tamps a piece of putty on the

rim and backs away.

Brian walks over and RIPS OFF the lid. -- Instantly a tongue

of flame SHOOTS straight up past his head and BLOWS out.

Rimgale's grinning like a little kid.

EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT

A Latin band cuts loose as beautiful people mill about against

a beautiful Chicago skyline. An AIR HORN blows, and suddenly

the skyline is MOVING. We're on a huge, private party boat.

EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT

Brian's leaning on the boat railing watching the passing

parade of rich and beautiful. Across the sea of champagne

and brie, he spots Jennifer talking with her boss, Swayzak.

He has his hand on her back.

Jennifer spots Brian. She smile, detaches herself and walks

over.

Swayzak suddenly appears with his entourage.

Swayzak swings around and puts his arm cheesily around Brian's

shoulder. Another staffer slaps a SWAYZAK FOR MAYOR sticker

to Brian's lapel. Jennifer rolls her eyes to Brian. I'm

sorry... Snap.

Swayzak leads her off in pursuit. Left alone, Brian turns to

the railing, stares off at the passing city. You can hear

the wind-up of a siren.

And there it is now, an engine company zooming along Wacker

Drive. Something digs and kicks inside of Brian as he watches

it disappear.

She's appeared again beside him.

BAMM!

Both of them look up sharply. A woman drunk out of her mind

has tipped over in her chair. She laughs, her fellow

tablemates laugh, everybody laughs. Jennifer takes Brian by

the arm in the opposite direction and smiles.

EXT. PARTY BOAT - NIGHT

The band's completely cut loose now. A wild percussion rhythm

that has everyone on their feet dancing like madmen. Brian

and Jennifer stomp and sweat and shake and giggle through

hair crazily askew. The lakeshore is twinkling and wonderful

as it slips past. The drums beat faster and harder and the

only thing that isn't moving now is their eyes -- eyes locked

on each other.

EXT. ARSON HQ - NIGHT

Sweaty, flushed with the evening and a few drinks, Brian and

Jennifer pull up in her car.

INT. ARSON HQ/FIRE STATION

The regular engine company's gone to bed and the arson squad's

packed in for the night, leaving the apparatus floor quiet

and dim as Brian and Jennifer enter.

Brian leads her back past the engine and arson sedan to the

rear where Rimgale has his offices. As they walk Jennifer's

eyes drift up to the old sculpted parapets, the press-tin

ceiling.

INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES

They walk into the back arson offices. Brian pokes through a

few drawers, one or two shelves. Finally he lifts a squat,

specialized fire extinguisher. The bottom has been hollowed

out, leaving room for a fifth of bourbon.

He pours her a glass. Jennifer takes a generous sip of her's,

turns, brushes past him and breathes,

INT. ARSON HQ - APPARATUS FLOOR

Brian escorts Jennifer along the side of the behemoth.

Brian lifts a narrow, tapered straight-bore nozzle.

Beat. The air cracks between them. And is brushed aside. In

an instant they're all over each other. Tangled lips and

gulping breaths. Jennifer abruptly breaks it off

-- And looks mischievously up at the hose bed, with its long

curling rolls of soft cotton.

Brian doesn't remember this precise scenario being discussed

at the academy, but he improvises admirably, popping up onto

the hose bed and offering a gentlemanly hand to Jennifer. As

they tumble into the soft folds

EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT

Engine 17 roars up, lights flashing, to a high-rise. As the

crew jumps down Tim trips and falls flat on his face.

INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED - NIGHT

Jennifer unbuttons Brian's shirt.

She pulls the shirt off his shoulder as we

INT. HIGH-RISE - LOBBY - NIGHT

Engine 17 walking up to a frazzled security guard in the

lobby.

They climb into the elevator.

INT. HIGH RISE - ELEVATOR - NIGHT

It's cramped on the way up with the bulky coats, helmets,

hose rolls, and the tangible nervousness that always goes

with this kind of fire. The elevator Musak plays 101 Strings

version of "Tie A Yellow Ribbon 'Round The Old Oak Tree".

INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED

Brian pulls off Jennifer's stockings. As she kicks it away...

INT. HIGH-RISE - UPPER FLOOR - NIGHT

The elevator stops. DING. The door opens. No howling blaze,

not even any noise, but enough hanging smoke that you can't

see your hand in front of your face.

They fan out gingerly onto the floor, looking for the fire.

Hide and seek in a white fog bank. Everybody stops and

listens. Slowly, carefully, they feel their way through the

haze.

On cue something snakes past behind the walls, whispers and

whines and shivers up and over them and then is silent.

Grindle attaches a hoseline to the building standpipe.

But Stephen's on the hunt now. Obsessed.

Stephen and Tim take the lead, their axes gripped like

shotguns. Grindle backs them up with a charged hoseline.

Adcox folds. With a stricken look on his face he takes his

crew down the other way. Stephen and Tim slowly feel their

way.

CRACK

Everybody SPINS around in terror. Nothing. Something inhuman

giggles down ahead of them. Stephen smiles.

Tim looks confused. He doesn't get it.

They come to a side door. Stephen runs his hand down the

jam, feels for heat. Then he steps back, takes a deep breath,

and CRASHES the door down with one AXE BLOW. Quiet inside.

INT. ARSON HQ - HOSE BED - NIGHT

Brian and Jennifer are into the rhythm now, breathing deeply.

On the wall above them are framed photos of dead firemen.

Watching.

INT. HIGH-RISE - SECOND DOORWAY - NIGHT

Stephen concentrates on the sound of the fire above him, --

then abruptly turns and CRASHES down another door.

INT. ARSON HQ - ALARM KLAXON GOES OFF - NIGHT

Brian and Jennifer lie in a tight embrace, enjoying the

moment, the lull, as suddenly the lights SNAP ON and an alarm

klaxon BELLOWS. Firemen are coming down the pole now.

They frantically climb into their clothes. The firemen haven't

noticed them as they climb aboard. They've STARTED THE ENGINE.

EXT. ARSON HQ - STREETS - NIGHT

And before either of them realizes it, they're suddenly

pulling out into the street and WAILING off down the block.

The wind's wild in their hair, the siren deafening, the

flashing red lights blinding staccato, And Jennifer loves

it. She kisses Brian fiercely, he lets out a war whoop lost

in the blast of air, and together they hold each other as

the night screams past and...

EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT

Engine 17 pulls up into the parking lot of the high-rise

fire. Firemen leap out of the cab and rush around behind to

pull off lengths of hose from the bed. As the folds curl

away the fireman is stunned to see a woman's stocking come

out with it.

With equal shock he looks up and watches as a disheveled and

grinning Brian and Jennifer climb calmly down out of the

bed.

INT. HIGH-RISE - TIM'S DOOR - NIGHT

Stephen and Tim creep along the hall.

Tim's come to one.

Stephen BANGS down another door. Sticks his head in to check.

A little woodpecker toy dips up and down in a glass of water.

Tim readies his axe before his door, gathers his courage as

Stephen comes out of the room he was checking. Sees Tim

lifting his axe.

Tim doesn't hear. The axe is already up.

Tim's committed now, coming hard at the door. And Stephen

sees it for just an instant -- Small tendrils of smoke edging

lazily around the door -- then being sucked back in.

He rushes for Tim as Tim's axe SMACKS the door and a whine

behind it builds and roars and howls and Tim's all follow-

through now, hitting the door with his shoulder as

The door EXPLODES OUTWARD, HURLING TIM against the opposite

wall and for an instant he's okay but he freezes in terror

as A SHRIEKING TONGUE OF FLAME SHOOTS OUT THE DOORWAY and

Grindle shouts in horror and opens his hose line as the flames

wrap Tim like a jealous lover as Adcox hears it and screams,

And Tim's screaming now too, because his helmet, his mask,

his face, it's all melting and Grindle dives suicidally at

the monster, BLASTING it with his hose as Stephen ignores

the flames and puts his arms around Tim as Grindle DOUSES

them both, killing the flames.

The monster rolls wounded back into the room, into the air

shafts as Tim whimpers incoherently, sliding down the wall

as Stephen tries to help but oh God you can't tell what's

face and what's mask and helmet anymore.

Grindle looks back where the fire came from. There's a corpse

in there, burned and lying between two doors.

Adcox rushes to Tim's side sobbing and it's the end, the end

of the goddamn world...

EXT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT

Brian and Jennifer are having the time of their lives, when

suddenly a group of firemen pass by rushing someone on a

stretcher to an ambulance and Brian sees -- sweet Jesus --

it's Tim. Jennifer turns away in horror. They load Tim into

the van as Adcox and Grindle jump in to ride along. To hold

his hand.

Stephen watches the ambulance disappear out into the street.

Frustration and fury tear at him as he takes off his coat

and slams it to the ground. He kicks it, kicks it till his

strength's gone. He turns, his wounded eyes finding Brian.

INT. HIGH-RISE - NIGHT

Rimgale walks down the smokey corridor. The charred civilian

is there, sitting in the short stretch of hall between two

blown doors. Through the haze Rimgale sees Stephen crouched

in the interior room, picking at the debris. Lost in himself.

Stephen stands and looks around the room, seemingly unaware

of Rimgale. He walks wordlessly straight out past him, his

eyes streaming with tears.

INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

Brian shoulders his way through the emergency room. He passes

a small alcove full of vending machines. Adcox is there,

sipping a paper cup, leaning against the machine in deep

anguish.

INT. HOSPITAL ICU - NIGHT

Further down the hall is ICU. Grindle and Santos are there,

sitting outside the room, raw and weary. Grindle nods to

Brian. Everyone's still stained and smudged from the fire.

Everyone but Brian.

Brian looks through a door window into the room. There,

surrounded by doctors and physicians, lies Tim. He's been

cut out of his uniform. Gauze bandages everywhere. As a pair

of forceps peel some away Brian glimpses what used to be a

face, now only reds and browns and leaky whites. He turns

away.

Voices rise down the hall. Turn to shouts. It's Adcox and

Stephen, tearing heartbreakingly into one another. Brian

can't make out the words but it's ugly, emotional. Abruptly

it ends and Stephen emerges from the alcove, walking toward

them upset.

Stephen's got other things on his mind.

Brian grabs his arm.

Stephen SNAPS and roughly PUSHES Brian, knocking him against

the wall. Brian comes off it in a flash and is all over

Stephen. They go down and it's all thrashing and shouting

now. A horrible, endless draw. Grindle and Santos are in it,

pulling them apart, holding them up against opposite walls.

Both brothers glare at one another, tears filling their eyes.

Brian shakes Grindle off and walks away.

INT. ARSON HQ - BRIAN'S DESK - MORNING

Brian sits staring blankly. A newspaper drops in front of

him. FIRE DEPT. SAYS IT'S MURDER. Rimgale stands above him.

Brian's eyes wince closed.

INT. JENNIFER'S OFFICE - DAY

She's pouring some coffee as Brian bursts in.

Swayzak appears in the doorway. He looks haggard, as if he

hasn't slept. There's something haunted in his eyes.

Brian shoulders his way past Swayzak and walks out.

INT. HOSPITAL - TIM'S ROOM - NIGHT

Brian walks up to Tim's room. Stephen's sitting there, ragged

looking. Inside the young probie lies wrapped in tubes and

gauze and years of wasted promise. An EKG beeps, a respirator

hisses, and Brian gulps down something heavy in his throat.

Stephen walks away.

EXT. ARSON HQ - MORNING

As Rimgale gets out of his car a limousine pulls up. Swayzak

opens the rear door from inside.

INT. SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY

Cruising through traffic. Swayzak is disheveled, unshaven,

fidgety. A man who hasn't slept and had a few drinks before

the one he's pouring now. He offers one to Rimgale.

Swayzak apparently doesn't.

For the first time, Rimgale sees real fear on Swayzak's face.

The sedan stops back at arson HQ. They'd gone around the

block.

EXT. ARSON HQ - SWAYZAK SEDAN - DAY

Rimgale opens the door, climbs out, lingers.

The door shuts and Swayzak roars away.

INT. ARSON HQ - BACK OFFICES - DAY

Rimgale walks back into his offices. He's surprised to see

Brian there working at his desk.

Rimgale stares at Brian, appraises him.

INT. HIGH-RISE

A CLOSE UP of Rimgale POPPING the molding around the door

frame of Holcomb's burned office. Underneath can be seen

traces of the same white residue from the other fires.

Rimgale rubs the white powder between his fingers.

Rimgale stands at the spot in the short hall where the body

lied between two doors.

Brian steps into the inner office.

Brian begins searching, probing. He finally stands. Defeated.

Brian's eyes don't understand. From Rimgale's coat comes a

plastic flask. He pours out of it a liquid onto the floor

and lights a match.

Rimgale drops the match.

WUMP. A small flame explodes to life.

The fire's climbing a wall, chewing a corner.

FWUMP. It darts west. Licks the ceiling. The fire purrs and

hisses. Stretches luxuriously and attacks savagely.

Brian stares at the flame. A goblin reaching out for him... --

Woosh! Rimgale hits it with a fire extinguisher. In an instant

the goblin is gone, the genie in the bottle.

A young woman's entered.

She looks at him like he's the dumbest human she's met all

week.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - OUTSIDE STEPHEN'S OFFICE - DAY

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - STEPHEN'S STATION OFFICE - DAY

Stephen's lying sprawled on his bunk, his hands pressed over

his eyes. There's a voice outside the door.

A beat, then Rimgale himself enters.

Rimgale takes in Stephen's room, the half empty bourbon

bottle. Without a word, Rimgale walks over and pours it out.

He sits down beside Stephen.

A wave of pain rolls through Stephen.

Stephen's eyes meet Rimgale's and hold.

Stephen takes Rimgale's notebook out of his lap, rips out a

page, and writes angrily in huge block letters.

Stephen throws the sheet at Rimgale, stands, and walks out.

INT. HALL OF RECORDS

An Escher drawing of a place, endlessly vast racks spun around

an open central core. High up, lost among its rows, Brian is

going through rack after rack of dog-eared record books as

Rimgale enters down below.

INT. HALL OF RECORDS

More books. Files. Acres of paper.

A beat, then he looks directly at Brian.

EXT. ROOFTOP RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. LAKESHORE - DUSK

With glowing skyscrapers leaping up in the background, it's

an unexpectedly quiet, serene place along the lake. Jennifer

sits alone at a bench, watching an ancient fisherman look

for dinner, as Brian walks up.

And it hangs between them, two people lonely on the edge of

the lake.

INT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. HELEN'S GARAGE - NIGHT

At a workbench, under a single lamp, Stephen stands amongst

a confusion of tools, wire, And a wall socket.

With a pair of pliers, he tugs at something within the socket,

puts the face-plate back on and screws it down. He stares at

it, and we feel the sudden wave of hopelessness cascading

through him.

He sets the socket back down -- and SCATTERS everything aside

in a single, furious move.

INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. HELEN'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Stephen's sits quietly against Helen's back door, lost in

himself. A light comes on. Helen opens the back door.

She sits down beside him.

The moment lingers, grows heavy and grey.

INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Stephen and Helen in bed, holding each other...

INT. HELEN'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Morning, and Stephen dressed, making eggs for three. Sean's

there, lending a hand, beaming as Stephen tries to show him

how to flip an egg. Helen enters in her robe. He kisses her.

Stephen musses his son's hair and follows her out into the

hall.

The blow's so long and hard and deep you don't even see it.

Just then, Sean sticks his head into it.

Helen's turned away.

INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - CITY HALL - MORNING

Jennifer enters Swayzak's inner office. His chair's turned

away toward the window.

Finally the chair turns, revealing a haunted man. Polls are

far from his mind.

She sees a fire department file on the murders open on his

desk.

Swayzak's eyes are dead metal.

And he turns his chair around again. Jennifer stands there a

beat. -- Then turns to the filing cabinets.

EXT. BRIAN'S APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Brian drives up and parks. He's half way to the staircase

when he sees someone sitting in the dark in a car.

She hands him a manila envelope.

Silence.

She starts her car.

INT. FIRE DEPARTMENT REPAIR DEPOT

A cavernous hall full of dozens of fire trucks loaded on

jacks. Rimgale's sedan's there, the repairman shaking his

head in amazement at the undercarriage.

Rimgale's looking through the report Brian's handed him.

He dumps three more reports on Rimgale.

Brian hands him something else. A photograph. Swayzak and

the other three, posing on a fishing boat, 1970. Time of

their lives.

EXT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The red arson sedan pulls up to wealthy home. Rimgale and

Brian walk up and knock on the door -- it creaks open ajar.

They push the door open slowly.

INT. SWAYZAK'S HOUSE - NIGHT

It's dark as they enter.

Brian and Rimgale split up down different halls. It's the

HISS Brian hears first. Then the FLASH of an electrical socket

FLARING ice-cold cobalt blue. Suddenly the room's dimensions

are there in frantic, strobing shadows. Chairs, a couch --

-- And a figure that JUMPS Brian. the light from the burning

plug is a fierce strobe as the figure, a confused shadow,

crashes Brian to the floor. They STRUGGLE.

The figure GRABS Brian's throat. Brian PUSHES him back

-- Against the burning wall plug. The figure SHRIEKS in pain,

gets his hand on a crowbar and SLAMS Brian -- who crumples,

dazed. The figure stands -- just as Rimgale TACKLES him. The

figure CRASHES across a gas space heater, SNAPPING the

connection off. The figure SLAMS Rimgale HARD with the

crowbar, squirms free, and stumbles out the door.

Hissss... Rimgale climbs to his feet as fire eats at the

wall. A baby backdraft wagging its tail. He goes to a dazed

Brian's side, lifting him by his armpits and

EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT

helping him outside. Hissss... The ruptured space heater

pumps gas furiously. Rimgale sees that. He also sees a bedroom

door ajar on the far side of the house. And through the door

a couch. And on the couch, A body. Hissss...

INT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT

Rimgale rushes back inside. It's Swayzak, unconscious.

EXT. SWAYZAK HOUSE - NIGHT

Rimgale drags him out on the stoop beside Brian just as the

gas WHUMPS and the doors and windows EXPLODE in a HOWLING

FIREBALL, the shrapnel BLOWING Rimgale off his feet. Brian

slowly shakes his head clear. He looks around, tries to orient

himself.

Brian climbs up to his feet and walks over to where Rimgale

lies at a weird angle, a piece of wrought iron fence punched

through his shoulder.

INT. HOSPITAL - EMERGENCY ROOM - NIGHT

Rimgale lies in an emergency room bed.

Rimgale grunts.

Rimgale suddenly kicks the bed frame in anger. He kicks it

over and over with frustration till something finally SNAPS

off. Brian waits, let's him vent his frustration.

INT. PRISON INTERVIEW ROOM - DAY

Brian's sitting alone in a chair. Finally the opposite door

opens and in enters Ronald.

Brian hands him a stack of murder files.

As Ronald starts to read the files

INT. PRISON INTERVIEW ROOM - LATER - DAY

Brian still sitting there. Watching Ronald devour the

statistics. The photos of charred bodies. Ronald finishes,

leans back.

Ronald drops on the table a dog-eared copy of that 1972 LIFE

magazine with Brian on the cover.

In a flash, Brian suddenly reaches across and grabs Ronald

by the collar.

And Ronald sees something in Brian's eyes. He smiles.

Brian releases Ronald.

The arsonist smiles a creepy, horrible grin.

A cold shock rolls through Brian as he slumps back in his

chair.

EXT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - MARINA - NIGHT

Brian climbs up onto Stephen's boat. Nobody home. He opens

the cabin door, goes inside and hits the lights.

INT. STEPHEN'S BOAT - NIGHT

There's cereal bowls in the sink, beer bottles on the table,

And a stack of fire department supplies in the corner.

His whole body aching with reluctance, Brian begins looking

through them. Solvents, Armorall, a small specialty can of

fire dept. chemicals. There's a label of ingredients on it.

Way down at the bottom, Is trychticholorate. Nausea wracks

its way through Brian.

Footsteps. Brian spins around in stone shock as Stephen comes

into the cabin.

Brian backs away from the chemicals.

He KICKS the bulkhead wall.

Brian turns to leave. Pauses.

Brian sees the chemicals in the corner again and something

freezes up inside. Stephen catches the look and there's

horrible silence between them.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - NIGHT

Brian stands before the fire station. His brother's and his.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - UPSTAIRS LOCKER ROOM

Brian PRIES the lock off Stephen's locker. Starts looking

through it. Adcox comes out of the shower with a towel on,

starts shaving in a mirror. He doesn't notice Brian. Adcox

turns to head for his own locker and the towel slips a little.

And Brian's universe caves in.

An icy claw tears out his stomach. Gulping breaths, he forces

himself to look at Adcox's back.

On it is a small, rectangular burn. It's fresh and it's the

size of a wall socket. At that moment Adcox turns. The two

of them stare at one another just a beat, then Adcox walks

past him. Just then the alarm bells RING. Brian hesitates a

beat, confused, then turns and runs down to

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR

Where firemen are scurrying around, suiting up. Brian looks

frantically for Stephen, sees him out back.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - BACK OF STATION - SUNDOWN

Grindles sticks his head out the back door.

Grindle goes back in.

Stephen turns and walks toward the station.

Brian's eyes go to a window just above it. There, watching

him, watching the whole exchange between brothers, is Adcox.

Adcox stares at Brian a beat, then finally disappears as

Brian hears the cough of diesel engines.

He starts running for the station.

INT./EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - NIGHT

-- It's too late. Adcox climbs aboard just as the engine

company pulls out and whistles down the street.

The ladder company is just easing onto the drive. Brian

hesitates only an instant, then runs to the equipment racks,

PULLS off the hooks his helmet, coat, boots -- and jumps

onto the truck as it takes off in pursuit.

INT./EXT. ENGINE COMPANY 17 - NIGHT

As it howls down the avenue, Stephen turns around and stares

at Adcox sitting behind. The glimmer of an understanding...

INT./EXT. TRUCK COMPANY 46 - NIGHT

The laddermen look confused seeing Brian sitting among them.

A CAR Suddenly CUTS the truck company off. The driver SLAMS

the brakes, PUSHING the truck company into a HORRIBLE SKID.

The back fishtails, the wheels JUMP the curb, BASH a mailbox,

and then the whole rig ROLLS onto its side and DRAGS to a

stop.

It's tangled confusion in the rear cab. Firemen, unhurt,

piled atop one another. Brian slides his way out from under

them and looks down the street where plumes of smoke rise

six blocks away.

He starts running.

EXT. WAREHOUSE FIRE - NIGHT

Flames and smoke curl from a huge industrial warehouse along

the river as Brian, panting, runs up. He searches frantically

through the maze of arriving engine companies, looking for

number 17. There it is but nobody's home. Brian stops a

passing captain.

Brian looks up at the smoke and whirling firestorm four

stories above him, feels the bile of fear in his throat, the

desperation, -- And begins strapping on an air tank.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Brian, now fully suited up, climbs the endless rungs of an

extended aerial ladder.

EXT. WAREHOUSE ROOF - NIGHT

Tongues of flame ROCKET skyward through ragged holes. Black

clouds drift murderously, roofing tars bubble and hiss as

the roof itself GROANS like a comatose dinosaur, reminding

you the whole thing could go any minute -- and you with it.

Trudging alone across this alien, spongy surface, Brian looks

for his company. It's almost impossible to tell anyone apart,

faces hidden behind helmets and masks.

Suddenly a cloud of smoke clears and there's two firemen

near the edge, "17" on their helmets.

The helmets look up. Stephen and Adcox. Facing each other.

Adcox cradles an axe.

Brian starts to move beside Stephen but Adcox turns, tightens

his grip on the axe, and now all the cards are on the table.

A hissing black cloud drifts through. They're the only three

people on earth.

Adcox's eyes are clouded with tears.

Brian and Stephen are backed up against the roof edge --

sixty feet up. Far below a fireboat has begun pumping a

massive stream at the side of the building.

And there's a horrible glimmer of confusion on Stephen's

face.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - ACROSS THE ROOF - NIGHT

The rest of the crews are totally oblivious to what's

happening through the smoke on the other side. Grindle and

Santos feel the roof go suddenly spongy beneath them.

Everybody drops their equipment and runs for the edges as

EXT. WAREHOUSE ROOF - BRIAN ET. AL - NIGHT

Brian, Stephen and Adcox react as the roof HOWLS and GROANS

and huge SPLITS begin racing along it. And then it goes.

The center section DROPS, and in rolling waves of SCREECHING

steel, the hole spreads outward; DEVOURING.

Adcox shoves them aside and runs for his life as the hole

races for them, SWALLOWING roof.

And Brian balls-out dashes for the edge. Stephen's made one

corner, Brian desperately heads for another. At the last

instant -- as the HOWLING FLAME BELLOWS UP to his ankles --

Brian LEAPS OFF the roof --

EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIRE ESCAPE - NIGHT

-- And falls half a story before CRASHING onto an exterior

fire escape. Flames have cut off the fire escape two floors

below, so Brian climbs down as far as possible, crawls onto

a ledge, KICKS out a window, steps through,

And falls.

INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT - NIGHT

Blackness and emptiness, two stories of it, before he CRASHES

into a pool of water at the bottom. He's in a freight elevator

shaft, thrashing madly, drowning. Great SHEETS of WATER are

POURING through an upper doorway and CASCADING down like

monsoon rain.

EXT. WAREHOUSE - FIREBOAT

We see it's coming from the fireboat's rushing stream.

INT. WAREHOUSE - ELEVATOR SHAFT

The weight of his equipment is pulling Brian underwater.

Struggling against the insane swirls and the sheets of water

still POURING DOWN, Brian unhooks his air tank. He leans

back, tries to float on the rising column of water. -- His

coat catches on something -- YANKS him underwater. He

struggles feverishly -- finally tears the coat off.

The building GROANS in earnest. Flaming chunks of plaster

CRASH down around Brian, forcing him to duck underwater. The

place is coming apart.

Ten feet above, one of the falling chunks SMACKS a gas main,

SPLITTING then IGNITING it. A white-hot JET OF FLAME SHOOTS

from one side of the shaft to the other.

Brian's floating okay, he's floating right up into the flames.

Brian tries to flatten himself out, to keep everything but

his nose below water, but he's still moving up -- the heat

becoming so intense his face flares and he's ducking under

water now, trying to stay alive, trying to decide whether to

drown or burn --

-- When there's a CRASH. And suddenly another door on the

shaft is tearing open. There's a glint of an axe. A

flashlight.

It's Stephen.

Brian has about two seconds left. In that time Stephen sees

the shut-off for the gas line mounted on the wall opposite.

It's unreachable, a good twelve feet across a horizontal

curtain of flame. Before we can even assimilate that,

Stephen's already jumped. A crazy leap over the fire. He

SMACKS the opposite wall, HITS the shut-off, and FALLS

CRASHING into the pool beside Brian.

Brian helps him stay above water. The level continues to

rise, bringing them finally even with an open doorway they

scramble through.

INT. WAREHOUSE - STAIRWAY - NIGHT

It leads to a stairwell that's become a RAGING TORRENT of

water spilling down it. No way. They push through to the

next doorway and out onto

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The place is full of hundreds of chemical drums. The fire

has cracked its way into the room as WUMP -- drums begin

EXPLODING, SHOOTING UPWARD Roman candle fountains of

glittering FLAME. Brian helps Stephen as they snake their

way past sweating drums -- pressure valves hissing madly

with desperation. They duck low, round a corner,

INT. WAREHOUSE - CATWALK - NIGHT

-- And walk right into an axe handle that SMACKS Brian's

throat KNOCKING him gasping flat on his back. It's Adcox.

Stephen JUMPS Adcox and TACKLES him on the edge of a metal

platform that extends out from the raised flooring.

Adcox struggles against him, heaving and sobbing.

And Adcox releases the axe.

Brian's on his feet now, coming toward them, when a chemical

drum below EXPLODES, the shock wave BUCKLING the platform

and DROPPING it several feet before it HOLDS. Brian, cut-

off, is HIT with a wall of debris.

Adcox and Stephen are FLUNG across the platform and THROUGH

the shattered railing. Stephen grabs a piece of broken,

dangling strut and hangs on with one hand.

In his other hand is Adcox. Hanging below him, his grip

loosening.

Brian's struggling to get out from under the debris. The

railing Stephen's hanging onto is slick, his hand SLIPPING

along it. But he won't let go of Adcox. His eyes bore into

his best friend's with absolute conviction.

The towering shots of FLAME from below have begun to IGNITE

Adcox's pant leg. He's starting to burn. But Stephen won't

let go. Won't let go even as the flames crawl up Adcox's

back. And Stephen's hand is slipping and slipping and then

it isn't slipping anymore because it's come off.

Adcox and Stephen FALL. There's a narrow catwalk half-way

down. Stephen HITS with a sickening CRUNCH.

Adcox falls past it, down into the flames.

There's an exposed I-beam running from the ruined platform

out over the catwalk. Brian climbs up onto it, balances across

over the fire below and jumps down to the catwalk where his

brother lies, battered but still alive.

INT. WAREHOUSE - FLOOR - NIGHT

Brian looks down and across the factory floor. There, coming

through the doorway, is Pengelly and Nightengale with a

hoseline.

INT. WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

They start for him when another drum EXPLODES, FLATTENING

them and launching their hoseline into a crazy, thrashing

arc. The flame has cut them off from the hose. Stephen sees

what Brian's thinking.

But Brian's already moving for the catwalk ladder.

Brian puts his feet on the outside rungs of the ladder and

SLIDES down to the factory floor. He's heading for the

hoseline when WHAM! -- The fire cuts him off. Not just any

fire. That same one from so many years ago.

Don't fuck with me, kid. I'm not in the mood.

Nightengale's lost his helmet and it's lying near the flames

spinning slowly upside down -- just like his father's. Brian

stands there, paralyzed, as the fire laughs at him. Same old

little kid with his finger up his ass. Then something

different comes into Brian's eyes.

There's a pathetic little wall extinguisher mounted on the

pole. Brian lifts it, approaches the fire. You can practically

hear the flames laugh at him. Brian suddenly turns and SLAMS

the neck of the extinguisher against the pole, BREAKING it

off before HEAVING the cannister HISSING into the flames

where it EXPLODES -- a cloud of extinguisher powder that

STUNS the flames just long enough for Brian to dash through

and TACKLE the hose.

The fire shakes off the powder, rises up to kill -- Just as

Brian spins and HITS it with the STREAM.

-- And it's like a howling train wreck as the two grapple

with each other -- Pengelly and Nightengale have an opening,

and they're dashing for the catwalk ladder up to Stephen

because the fire doesn't care -- it only has eyes for Brian

now --

-- And Stephen sees Brian tackle the monster, and his eyes

fill with tears --

-- And the fire's pushing Brian -- pushing him with the fury

of a frightened street bully -- but Brian won't give -- and

now the fire's back's broken -- it's whimpering, dying.

And Pengelly and Nightengale have climbed up to Stephen now,

pulling him away.

And the fire's just a little gremlin now, sighing sadly as

Brian steps up with the hoseline.

And whoosh, it's gone.

EXT. BURNED BUILDING - NIGHT

Brian rushes up as paramedics load his brother into an

ambulance.

As Brian jumps in with him

INT. AMBULANCE - NIGHT

Paramedics swarm over Stephen as the ambulance screams through

the night. Brian's right there, holding his hand.

His brother squeezes Brian's hand, his eyes never leaving

him.

Stephen's EKG's begun to falter. The other paramedic fires

off an injection into his IV.

The EKG's become erratic. Stephen's eyes never leave Brian's.

They put an ambo bag over Stephen's face. The eyes never

leave Brian's.

They're breathing for him now. The EKG begins shrieking.

The paramedics begin scrambling to load the defibrillator

pads on Stephen's chest. But the fireman's eyes never waver

from Brian. They look into his with complete conviction,

complete acceptance, And then they don't.

FADE TO BLACK:

Then, FADE UP TO:

EXT. MICHIGAN AVE - DAWN

A silent, quiet street absolutely empty of traffic. Then

over the crest of Chicago's mightiest thoroughfare, creeps

slowly a fire engine. It's emergency lights are on but not

the siren. This engine isn't in a hurry today.

Behind comes another fire engine. And another. Ten, twenty,

all of them creeping slowly along. And behind the engines

now walk firemen in their dress blues. Hundreds of them.

Walking silently in step behind

TWO COFFINS

Loaded in the rear of Engine 17. Santos drives as Grindle,

Brian, and the men of ladder company 46, walk behind. The

silent procession passes under extended aerial ladders crossed

like dress swords. Average people stop, take their hats off.

EXT. LAKE SHORE DRIVE - THE SILENT PROCESSION

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

Two coffins, lying side by side, draped in the blue and white

of the Chicago flag. A single fire helmet rests atop each

casket.

Brian stands at attention beside Helen. He holds the hand of

Stephen's son Sean, his eyes clouded with tears as a fire

dept. honor guard plays Taps. Jennifer's there, too far away

to touch.

Rimgale, still wearing a head bandage, stands stiffly beside

a brass bell and speaks with a voice raw and weary.

With a small hammer Rimgale rings out 3-3-5 on the bell.

The honor guard folds the flag covering Stephen's casket and

hands it to Helen, who holds it to her breast as we

EXT. CEMETERY - DAY

A sea of blue uniforms drifting across green as the funeral

breaks up. Brian hugs Helen and Sean. Lets them go.

EXT. CEMETERY EDGE - DAY

Rimgale's there, resting against his dept. sedan as Brian

walks by, pauses, and leans on it beside him. A beat.

Rimgale turns to walk back to his sedan. He pauses. Looks

back to Brian.

INT. OFFICE - DAY

An elevator opens as Brian and Rimgale walk quickly out,

down a hall, and BURST into Swayzak's office.

INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE - DAY

The Alderman's there, giving a press conference from his

desk.

Rimgale sits on Swayzak's desk.

Rimgale drops the manning report on Swayzak's desk.

The room explodes with questions. Through the din Brian leans

over the desk very close to Swayzak.

Brian turns and pushes his way out. At the door he pauses

and looks back at Rimgale. The investigator nods and smiles

just a little...

INT. SWAYZAK'S OFFICE CORRIDOR

As Brian walks down it, Rimgale appears and calls to him.

Brian hesitates.

And there's just a beat between the investigator and his

probie before Brian nods and walks away.

EXT. SWAYZAK OFFICE CORRIDOR

Brian walks down the hall. He passes Jennifer's small office.

She's in there, surrounded by packing boxes.

EXT. FIRE STATION 17 - CITY

And morning breaking across the avenues and up against the

tired brick of firehouse 17.

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - LOCKER ROOM

Brian sits staring into his locker, lost in thought, his

equipment stacked up on the bench beside him. THE ALARM KLAXON

SOUNDS

INT. FIRE STATION 17 - APPARATUS FLOOR

And firemen scurrying to their equipment on the apparatus

floor. They're climbing aboard their rigs now and the pumper's

diesel is coughing to life.

At the last moment, as it begins to pull out, Brian comes

sliding down the pole in his turn-out gear, bounces off the

floor, and climbs aboard as the engine WHISTLES away.

INT. ENGINE 17 - CAB

There's a new fireman beside him on the bench. He can't get

his coat buckled right. Brian leans over does it for him.

EXT. FIRE ENGINE 17 - STREET - DAY

And the fire engine slips away from us, down the avenue,

into the city as we

