FADE IN BEFORE MAIN TITLE

BAD DAY AT BLACK ROCK

ESTABLISHING SHOT - BLACK ROCK - PART OF TOWN: FOCAL POINT:

RAILROAD STATION

abandoned, in an extreme state of dilapidation. The structure

is blistered by the resolute sun, the roof is weather-warped.

Dry rot and mildew wage a relentless battle against the

foundation. Between the building and the tracks is a long,

somewhat narrow platform, its floorboards twisted by time,

termites and the elements. The match-board overhang of the

building, throwing some little shade to a portion of the

platform, sags and bellies. From the overhang is appended a

rectangular panel on which, in flaky paint, the town is

identified:

BLACK ROCK

One of the broken wires holding the panel is longer than the

other, cocking the sign irregularly.

The railroad tracks reach endlessly into the horizon. Past

the town on each side stretches the ocean-like prairie, with

sand dunes rising and falling monotonously, shouldering each

other toward infinity. The morning sun lays over this

wasteland of the American Southwest, a gigantic yellow bruise

from which heat waves like bloodshot arteries spread

themselves over the poisoned sky.

A small shack stands next to the station, separated from it

by a narrow alleyway and leaning toward the larger building,

as if for support. The words POSTAL TELEGRAPH are arced across

its dusty vitrine. An old straight-backed chair, reinforced

with twisted wire, is tilted against the north-west corner

of the shack. In it is Mr. Hastings, the postal telegraph

agent, a man of middle years and exorbitant mediocrity. He

sits there spinelessly, fingering a wart on his receding

chin and, once in a while, for variety, rubbing a knuckle

under his watery nose.

FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK

The town is minute, dismal and forgotten, crouching in

isolation where the single line of railroad track intersects

a secondary dirt road. The twin strips of steel glisten in

the fierce sunlight, fencing the dreary plain from the false

fronts of the town. In b.g. is the bluff of a black stony

mountain. Against this ancient mass the houses of Black Rock's

single street*** (See map, P.2A) are scanty in number and

insignificant in architecture, a conglomerate paint-peeled

modern trussed together with rusty nails and battered tin

strips torn from signs.

The town and the terrain surrounding it have, if nothing

else, the quality of inertia and immutibility -- nothing

moves, not even an insect; nothing breathes, not even the

wind. Town and terrain seem to be trapped, caught and held

forever in the sullen, abrasive earth.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

STRAIGHT SHOT - STREAMLINER

jarring in its power as it ramrods across the desert, its

diesel engines pounding. Its horn "WONKS" twice, blasting

the shatterable air.

FULL SHOT - BLACK ROCK - ANOTHER ANGLE

Nothing is changed, nothing is altered. But look close and

you will see a small shallow current of wind sweeping lazily

across the dirt and dust of the single street. HOLD for a

beat, then MAIN TITLE appears. Between the ensuing credits

INTERCUT a series of sharp LONG SHOTS. The composition of

each shot has that hard, sun-beaten texture of American

primitive painting -- pressurized in its simplicity -- best

exemplified, perhaps, by the work of Grant Wood.

EXT. SAM'S SANITARY BAR AND GRILL - ANGLE ON DOC VELIE

assayer and notary public, mortician to the citizens of Black

Rock who have departed to a better place, and veterinarian

to its lesser animals. An elderly, somewhat untidy gentleman,

he sits nonchalantly on a chair outside the Bar & Grill.

Idling with him are three or four other loafers, among them

Sam, the middle-aged proprietor of the restaurant. Doc glances

casually at his watch; no one else moves. The hot wind

continues listlessly down the empty street.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. GARAGE - LIZ BROOKS

A tall, attractive girl of twenty in dungarees and cotton

shirt. She stands just outside the open barn-like door of

the garage, staring, from the compulsive force of habit, at

the endlessly receding tracks. The sultry wind, its gustiness

slightly increased, blows through her fine dark hair.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. PORCH OF HOTEL - COLEY TRIMBLE AND HECTOR DAVID

two enormous men. HECTOR is tall, and there is about him a

nasty, raw-boned tautness; COLEY is more the anthropoid type --

long thick arms and a round, iron casing of a belly. They

glance down the street, watching incuriously a dust devil

swirling in the wind.

Now the CAMERA has completed its probe of the town and its

denizens. MAIN TITLE and CREDITS are completed...

CLOSE SHOT - MR. HASTINGS

still spineless in his chair, the chair still tilted against

the shack. From o.s. and far away, we hear the horn of the

streamliner -- two long "WONKS", a short and a long (engine

whistle signal for approach to bridge crossing). Hastings

straightens up ever so slightly as he reacts to the oncoming

train.

STRAIGHT SHOT - STREAMLINER

moving at tremendous speed.

BRIDGE

with train barrelling toward it. The horn BLASTS -- three

short WONKS (engine whistle signal for stopping at next

station).

CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS

getting jerkily to his feet, as though charged by a galvanic

current. The uncharacteristic speed of his movements throws

the tilted chair to the station platform. He raises an arm

to shield his watery eyes from the sun...

SHOT - TRAIN

heading toward CAMERA, churning across the desert like a

juggernaut. It PANS past CAMERA in a blur of speed. CAMERA

SWINGS UP on a level with the great iron wheels as the brakes

are applied. The wheels shriek agonizingly against the rails,

kicking up cinders and a wild flurry of dust. She cuts speed,

brakes hissing, and starts to slow down.

LONG SHOT MAIN STREET - BLACK ROCK

SHOOTING from rear of town, toward the railroad tracks. The

townspeople step out, frowning, cautious, disturbed. The

secure ritual of the train passing through, never stopping,

has somehow, for some unknown reason, been violated.

CLOSE SHOT - DOC VELIE

as his mouth tightens. His air of placidity vanishes, leaving

his features disturbed.

CLOSE SHOT - LIZ BROOKS

Her fine young face stiffens almost imperceptibly. Her eyes

are coated with a vague emptiness. She seems confused as she

halfturns toward the hotel.

REVERSE SHOT - WHAT SHE SEES

Coley Trimble and Hector David, standing on the porch of the

hotel. They seem tense, responding variously to what might

be fear. Coley's nostrils flare, his flat ugly mouth

compresses. He looks profoundly serious. Hector wipes a glob

of dusty sweat from the socket of an eye and blinks rapidly.

CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS

as he stands in surprise, nervously alert, watching the train

as it comes to a complete stop. His jaw droops with the

slackness of fear.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. STATION PLATFORM

with the train stationary before it. A sleek steel door of a

pullman clangs open. A colored porter carrying a suitcase

walks down the wrought-iron steps. He is stately, gray-haired

and lean, with the almost finical tidiness travelers associate

with trainmen. The man behind him is big-shouldered, a granite-

like wedge of a man with calm, piercing eyes. There is about

him an air of monumental dependability and quiet humor, but

his eyes are those of a man who has lately lived in somber

familiarity with pain. His left arm hangs from his shoulder

with that lifeless rigidity of paralysis, while the hand is

hidden in his pocket.

ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY AND PORTER

The porter puts the suitcase on the platform. In the distance

the town and its people are seen staring silently,

motionlessly. The big man glances toward them. He smiles a

sad, distasteful greeting to the town, its wretched dust.

its mean, modest buildings. The porter disappears into the

train as the conductor enters scene. He turns slowly,

following Macreedy's gaze...

Macreedy nods his thanks. The conductor signals the engineer

(o.s.) and steps on the train. The diesel's claxon blasts

the torrid air ominously. The train slowly, smoothly, begins

to move, picking up speed. The cars slip past until, quite

suddenly, the Streamliner is gone. For a moment Macreedy

watches it. Then, quite unconsciously, he takes a package of

cigarettes from his left hand pocket, taps the last one free

of the pack, sticks it between his lips and, crumpling the

empty pack, drops it beside the tracks. He takes a cardboard

book of matches, flicks it open, bends a match in half with

agile fingers, and with a sure frictional motion scrapes the

head against the sandpaper guard. The match flares, the

cigarette is lit. Macreedy inhales, exhales deeply, and turns

to pick up his suitcase. Then he sees Hastings, who walks

slowly, almost painfully, to him. His Adam's apple grapples

protestingly with his collar. After a moment he controls it

sufficiently to talk...

Hastings looks at him blankly. The thousand-yard stare of a

hypnotic glazes his features.

Hastings points.

With his suitcase, he cuts across a weedy path, running into

Black Rock's single street. For a moment, Hastings stares

after him; then he breaks hurriedly, entering telegraph

agent's shack.

INT. POSTAL TELEGRAPH OFFICE

as Hastings, fumbling, picks up the phone...

REVERSE SHOT - MAIN STREET - BLACK ROCK

SHOOTING down the street as Macreedy slowly walks toward the

hotel. Not a person has moved, each eye is glued on the

stranger.

The hollow rasp of Macreedy's tread on the wooden platform

of the "pavement" seems shatteringly loud in the enveloping

silence...

CLOSE SHOT - LIZ

as she follows the man's movement.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

CLOSE ANGLE - ON MACREEDY

as he walks along. He feels the eyes of everyone following

him, glaring at him. He halts, looks around. The townspeople

continue to eye him brazenly, yet with an almost animal

incuriosity. He grins and walks on past a cluster of five or

six RFD mail boxes and a road sign [1], its paint peeling,

its face punctured by three or four bullets from a drunk's

pistol long ago.

SHOT - MACREEDY

heading toward the hotel. In b.g. is a relatively small farm

equipment yard compressed between a general store (which

Macreedy has just passed) and the hotel just ahead. In the

yard are a few tractors, and among them huddles a tiny office.

It is empty; the front window is thick with dust. On it,

etched by an anonymous, childish finger, is a skull and

crossbones. Running diagonally across is the printed legend:

T.J. HATES J.S.

Macreedy notes the inscription with a sort of wry bemusement.

He walks on, reaching the facade of the weather-beaten hotel.

A gust of wind swirls down the street, momentarily engulfing

Macreedy and the entire area in a sudden eddying whirlpool.

As it subsides...

ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY

As he peers through the dust toward the dingy hotel. It has

a narrow stoop and outsize bay windows on each side. Macreedy

mounts the hotel steps. At the top of the steps Coley Trimble

and Hector David watch him silently. Hector is large and

leanly muscular, yet Coley looms over him like a battleship.

He is a gross behemoth of a man, with sharp flinty eyes the

size of glistening pinpoints and a slack, oversized jaw.

Both men wear modern Western work clothes, but there is one

incongruous accessory which Hector affects. Around his thick

wrist is a watch with a large flat face and an elaborately

tooled leather strap -- a cheap reproduction of one of those

expensive Swiss timepieces which, among many distinguished

accomplishments, tells the day of the week, the month of the

year, the phase of the moon, etc., etc.

No reaction from Hector.

He brushes past Coley and enters.

Coley nods and heads down the street. Hector enters the hotel.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. HOTEL

It is a typical small town hotel, but crummier, with a tiny

lobby. Macreedy is waiting at the empty desk as Hector strolls

in, flopping his enormous bulk into a nicked and mothy chair.

He picks up a newspaper, but his eyes remain on Macreedy.

Macreedy waits patiently for the absent clerk. For a moment,

he studies the open registration ledger; his eyes rove from

the ink-splotched blotter up over the desk to one of those

World War II banners, the imitation silk now stained and

faded. It depicts a shrieking eagle rampant, clutching The

Flag in a claw. Under it, the legend:

Near it, a tacky placard proclaims:

DO ALL THE GOOD YOU CAN,

BY ALL THE MEANS YOU CAN,

IN ALL THE WAYS YOU CAN,

AT ALL THE TIMES YOU CAN,

TO ALL THE PEOPLE YOU CAN,

AS LONG AS EVER YOU CAN.

Feeling the eyes of Hector on him, Macreedy turns. Hector

meets his gaze with bland, insolent interest. Now a young

man (his name is PETE) comes out of a small room behind the

registration desk and walks up to it. There is a softness

about his regular features, a certain indefinable sugariness

about his mouth. He seems tight-lipped, for lorn and uneasy

as he faces Macreedy across the counter.

Macreedy looks at the young man with impeccable tolerance.

Without shifting his gaze, he slowly lets fall his small

suitcase. It thuds softly on the frayed carpet.

Macreedy looks down at the open ledger on the desk before

him. The clerk reaches out to close it. Gently, yet firmly,

Macreedy stops him, reopening the big book. He studies it, a

finger straying unconsciously inside his collar. He [...] on

it to relieve the starchy stiffness.

Pete begins to fidget...

His voice fades desperately.

Again his voice trails off.

Macreedy leans over the counter to a rack of keys. He runs

his splayed fingers over the key rack as...

Pete opens his mouth but no sound comes out. [...] at Hector.

CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR

glowering at Pete.

TWO SHOT - MACREEDY AND PETE

as Macreedy signs the ledger.

He picks up the key.

Macreedy nods, reaches for the bag at his feet. Then he

hesitates, looks at Hector.

Macreedy says nothing. The wales along his face harden. He

picks up his bag and climbs the stairs. As he disappears,

Hector lumbers to the desk and grabs the ledger.

As Pete bites his lower lip thoughtfully,

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY - MACREEDY

in a new bathrobe, before a cracked, discolored mirror. He

draws a safety razor down his face, completing his shave;

then he wipes a hand over the mirror, which clouds with steam

almost as fast as he can clear it. o.s., the SOUND of bath

water gurgling down the tub drain. He runs a tentative finger

inside the collar of his robe, pulling loose a price tag. He

drops it carefully into a wastebasket. He turns on the faucet

at the sink to rinse his shaving brush. The rusty pipes cough

and rumble, roaring as a trickle of water arrives while the

drain sucks loudly at its departure. He dries the razor,

turns off the faucet and exits.

INT. HOTEL CORRIDOR - ANGLE ON MACREEDY

As he walks down the dark, narrow hall. He wears the bathrobe

and slippers; a large towel is draped over his head, like a

prize fighter. He stops outside a door, pushes the towel

from his head to his neck and puts his hand on the knob. He

is about to insert the key when he tenses. Slowly, silently,

he turns the knob and throws open the door.

INT. HOTEL ROOM

Next to the door, in the corner of the small, sparsely

furnished room is Macreedy's suitcase, open, its contents

askew and scattered over the dusty floor. On the bed sprawls

Hector David, his gigantic body straining the springs. He

lies on his back, hands clasped easily under his head, thick

legs crossed, his Stetson tilted over his low forehead. He

is completely unconcerned by Macreedy's entrance. For a moment

Macreedy stares at him. Then...

Slowly, his eyes still on Macreedy, Hector takes off his

elaborate wrist watch and slides it gently into his pants

pocket.

Macreedy pauses and takes in the situation. He refuses to be

baited.

For a moment their eyes lock. Then Macreedy goes to his

suitcase and throws his clothes in it. As he goes out the

door...

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - DAY - FULL SHOT - SAM AND THE LOAFERS

They sit around, each with his own thoughts. They are

generally stolid; only Sam seems nervous. He looks up eagerly

as Doc Velie enters the lobby. As he joins Sam...

Sam walks light for a big man, Doc.

Sam follows Doc's gaze...

REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE 35X1

Macreedy walks down the stairs. Pete looks up from the desk.

He is about to dart behind the partition when...

He walks to the desk, smiling at Pete. In b.g., Doc, Sam and

the loafers watch.

Pete studies him, then bends under the counter, coming up

with a pack. Doc leaves Sam and is slowly walking toward the

stranger, eyeing him curiously.

Macreedy throws the money on the desk and opens the pack,

dexterously using the fingers of his left hand.

Macreedy looks at him, inhales deeply on his cigarette then,

as he slowly lets the smoke out, removes the cigarette and

looks at it.

Now Doc is at the desk not far from Macreedy. Macreedy starts

out, then turns to Pete.

Macreedy smiles and sighs tiredly. Then...

Macreedy pauses, looking at Doc, who blandly returns his

stare.

Doc nods. Macreedy smiles and walks toward the door; Pete,

Doc et al watching him. He goes out.

EXT. STREET

As Macreedy walks down hotel steps, a station wagon pulls up

just before him. Tied with a rope to the right front fender

is a magnificent eight-point buck. A stain of dry blood weaves

an uneven course down his glossy flank from an unmistakable

bullet hole in his shoulder. Two men get out of the car; one

of them is Coley Trimble. He sees Macreedy coming toward

him. He stands motionless in the center of the narrow

pavement, picking at his nose with the detachment of a child.

The other man is broad and excessively masculine as he swings

out from behind the wheel. He walks around the car, joining

Coley at the curb. Macreedy comes on. The man with Coley

looks at the stranger with colossal indifference, as

expressionless as the soil of Black Rock. His handsome face,

under a dusty hunting cap, is taut and hard and wind-shaven.

Next to Coley he stands motionless, except for the wisp of

smoke from a black Cuban cigarette between his thin lips. In

b.g., the loafers who had been ensconced in the hotel lobby

move out the door and stand on the porch. They watch Macreedy,

Coley and Reno Smith, the handsome, taut-faced man. Silence

soems to settle over everything. It is Macreedy who breaks

it...

Gently he walks around Coley and Reno Smith and continues

down the street. Coley's eyes follow him. Smith goes up the

steps of the hotel and enters the lobby. Coley quickly follows

him. The loafers on the porch go back inside.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

The loafers resume their familiar places as Smith walks

briskly to the clerk's desk. Pete, in anticipation, opens

the hotel register, places it before Smith

Smith doesn't answer; he looks up thoughtfully. His eyes

harden almost imperceptibly as he sees Coley, across the

narrow room, looking out the window after Macreedy.

Coley sits in the nearest chair. Beyond Smith, still resting

easily against the high counter of Pete's desk, the gigantic

figure of Hector appears at the top of the stairs. He comes

down and joins Smith.

He hesitates as Doc Velie sidles amiably into earshot.

Smith looks thoughtfully out the window.

REVERSE SHOT - WHAT HE SEES

Macreedy, down the end of the block, saunters easily up to

Liz's garage.

EXT. LIZ'S GARAGE - FULL SHOT

The garage, without a door, opens on the street. Against the

front of the building is parked a battered bicycle. On one

of the barnlike walls a boy of nine is drawing laboriously

with a piece of chalk. He puts the last flourish to a skull

and crossbones identical with that seen earlier on the window

of the equipment yard office. Macreedy stops a few feet from

him, waiting until the boy prints "T.J.". As he steps back

to admire his handiwork...

T.J. nods. He approaches the wall, raising his chalk.

He pauses. As Macreedy opens his mouth to interrogate

further...

Again a pause. T.J. has just completed the final letter of

the word "HATES". And again as Macreedy opens his mouth...

Again the pause. T.J. steps back, having completed his work,

which, of course, broadcasts the fact that "T.J. HATES J.S.".

And again as Macreedy begins to speak...

T.J. turns, pulls the bike away from the building, completes

a fastidious "pony express" and peddles furiously out of

scene.

EXT. STREET - FULL SHOT

as Macreedy, after a moment's hesitation, starts down it.

From the far end, at the telegraph agent's shack, a figure

starts running toward Macreedy. It is Hastings. INTERCUT

between the two men. Hastings, in his concentration, doesn't

see the stranger until he is almost upon him. He slows down,

suddenly, awkwardly, to a self-conscious walk. Macreedy grins

at him, passes on, shaking his head speculatively. Hastings,

with a parting glance, gallops up the hotel steps.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - FULL SHOT

Smith, Coley, Hector, Pete, Doc, Sam et al are still in

evidence. Smith is in a tight little group at the desk with

Coley, Hector and Pete. Doc has taken a position at the

window, looking out. Hastings bursts in and half-runs to

Smith...

ANGLE FAVORING SMITH AND HASTINGS

as the excited telegraph agent speaks.

Smith ignores him, thinking. Hastings breathes heavily.

Finally...

Hastings nods, scribbling on a pad.

Hastings nods and hurriedly exits.

Smith looks at Coley, trying to decide if the question in

any way challenges his authority. He concludes not...

Pete nods, his brow furrowed uncomfortably in a frown.

At this point the brittle silence is cracked by...

Smith and those around him look off in the direction of Doc.

DOC VELIE - AT THE WINDOW

peering out. He turns in the direction of Smith and the

others.

Smith goes to the window, edging Doc to one side with a

shoulder. He looks out grimly.

REVERSE SHOT - WHAT HE SEES

Macreedy, down the street, cuts up the steps of the jail.

BACK TO SCENE

Smith staring out the window with a frown. Doc watching him

out of the corner of his eye, a bemused expression crossing

his puckish features.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. JAIL

ANGLE on Macreedy as he enters the jail. It is small and

dirty, with only a tired desk, two chairs and the usual police

posters on the wall. One side leads to the cell block and

Macreedy heads for it.

ANGLE from interior of cell block comprising two cells, both

of which are open. A man is asleep in the lower bunk of the

front cell. The keys are in the lock. Macreedy shakes his

head and starts to close the creaking cell door. Sheriff TIM

HORN, the man in the bunk, lifts his head, blinking his bleary

eyes. He is in terrible shape.

He manages to crawl off the bunk and out toward Macreedy.

He walks out of the cell, Macreedy following him into the

office.

SHOT - OF THE TWO

Tim breaks out a bottle of booze, starts to take a snort,

then stops, offers it to Macreedy.

He takes a belt that would incapacitate half the county. He

finishes, smacks his lips, lays the bottle down, and falls

into a chair. He looks up at Macreedy.

Tim studies him, trying to focus.

Macreedy starts to say something, then stops. Reconsidering...

The Sheriff reaches for his bottle. In his haste he drops

it. Macreedy's hand moves quickly, catching the bottle before

it hits the floor.

For a moment heavy silence. Finally...

Macreedy grins harshly and exits. Tim watches him go, then

slowly reaches for the bottle. He pauses, looks at his shaking

hand. Then he withdraws it and just sits in the chair staring

blindly ahead, seeing nothing.

EXT. STREET

Frowning, deep in thought, Macreedy walks down the dusty

street. As he reaches the hotel...

Macreedy stops, looks toward Smith as he walks out to meet

him.

As Smith joins him, he walks on. Smith falls in step beside

him. GO WITH THEM.

At this point they are in front of...

EXT. LIZ'S GARAGE

Macreedy stops, as does Smith. He looks keenly at Smith as

he takes from his inner jacket pocket a half-dozen letters...

Smith opens his mouth to reply when the NOISE of a jeep o.s.

interrupts him. The jeep comes INTO SHOT. Liz Brooks, at the

wheel, cuts the engine and jumps out. Smith ambles silently

to a wall and leans against it. Liz reaches behind the

driver's seat and hoists, with both hands and some effort, a

five-gallon drum of axle grease from the floor of the jeep.

As she rests it on the rear fender...

The girl looks at Smith, who has made no attempt to help

her.

She lifts the drum to the ground.

Liz looks from Smith to Macreedy, puzzled.

Liz hesitates. Macreedy notes her confusion as her eyes seek

Smith's for instructions. Quickly he moves in...

Macreedy hands her a bill. She fumbles with it, not knowing

what else to do. Her eyes drift to Macreedy's stiff arm...

He steps toward the jeep as...

He steps into jeep and, with one hand expertly manipulating

the controls, drives off.

MED. SHOT - SMITH AND LIZ

Smith turns his attention to the girl...

For a moment Smith doesn't answer. Instead, with a half frown,

he lifts the bill Macreedy had given her from Liz's hand.

He crumples it, pokes the wad in her hand and walks off down

the street as...

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. JAIL - FULL SHOT - DAY

Tim sits in his chair, still staring sightlessly at the

whiskey bottle. Smith enters. He looks from Tim to the bottle

on the table, then back to Tim.

He stares harshly at the Sheriff. Tim tries unsuccessfully

to meet his gaze. Then, slowly, he sits down.

Smith slowly walks behind Tim's chair and silently,

patronizingly pats the Sheriff's slack shoulder...

INT. TELEGRAPH AGENT'S OFFICE - FULL SHOT

Hastings is sitting at his desk. The telegraph ticker starts

to splutter. Hastings rushes to it. He listens, and starts

to scribble. Then he gulps nervously, a confused expression

on his face. As the telegraph key stops as suddenly as it

had begun, Hastings jumps up frantically and, holding the

sheet of paper, runs out of the shack.

EXT. STREET

as he runs toward hotel.

EXT. HOTEL - LONG SHOT

with Doc, Sam, Coley, Hector and Pete on the porch. Hastings

runs up the steps, pausing momentarily. His jaws move, but

CAMERA is too far away to pick up his obvious question. Coley

gestures toward the jail; then Hastings turns and runs down

the steps followed by Doc et al.

EXT. STREET - FULL SHOT

Hastings runs down the street toward the jail followed by

Doc et al.

EXT. JAIL

as Hastings runs up the steps with a hobnailed clatter. Smith

comes out to investigate, followed by Tim. Doc, et al are

congregated at the foot of the steps. Hastings slaps the

sheet of paper in front of Smith. Utter quiet. Everyone stares

at Smith, waiting for a reaction -- everyone except Tim, who

stares straight ahead, seeing nothing, and Doc, whose eyes

are locked sympathetically on Tim. Smith finishes reading

the wire. His face is expressionless. After a moment...

Smith doesn't answer but...

He folds the message carefully, puts it in his pocket.

Abruptly Tim turns and disappears inside his office. Smith,

with some restraint, walks down the steps to the street.

MOVING SHOT - SMITH

as he takes Coley's arm, and Pete's. The trio moves away,

taking a position perhaps 15 feet from Doc. Hector, Sam and

Hastings move toward them.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. RAILROAD TRACKS - SMITH, COLEY AND PETE

In b.g. at a respectful distance are Hector, Sam and Hastings.

SHOOT parallel to tracks, which disappear far into the

horizon.

The following dialogue is delivered in an undertone...

Coley is terribly preoccupied, balances himself, like a child,

on a steel rail.

Brittle silence for a moment. Then...

Pete doesn't answer.

Pete is silent.

There is a long, electric silence. Pete is defeated.

He pauses for emphasis. Then, as he starts to talk again...

INT. JAIL

Tim stands facing the wall, shoulders hunched, suffering.

Doc comes in and watches him silently, Tim turns, facing

Doc, turns again to concentrate on a faded newspaper

photograph framed and hanging on the wall.

ANOTHER ANGLE - TIM

SHOOTING over his shoulder. Focal point: the "photograph".

It shows a widly grinning, moderately alert and healthy Tim

of perhaps five years ago. He is wearing, proudly, his badge

of office, and behind him, mildly interested in the

proceedings, is Reno Smith, his erstwhile sponsor. The heading

on the photo reads: DEPUTY SHERIFF NAMED FOR BLACK ROCK.

MED. SHOT - TIM AND DOC

Tim takes the photo off the wall and, holding it, turns to

face Doc...

Doc squirms but doesn't answer.

Tim takes off his badge and throws it on the desk.

They look at each other. Slowly Tim picks up his badge and

pins it back on.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. DESERT ROAD

An old marker, jutting on an angle at the side of the road,

reads: ADOBE FLAT. Beneath it an arrow points ahead. Macreedy

steers the jeep up the narrow, rutted trail between a serious

of enormous boulders.

ANOTHER ANGLE

as he drives to the far end of the boulders, reaching a flat

piece of land completely surrounded by rocks. Beyond the

rocks is what remains of a burned-out ranch house, and an

abandoned well.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

MED. SHOT - MACREEDY

in the wreckage. The remains of an iron bed. The burned-out

shell of a pick-up truck. Part of a stove. A morass of

bottles, all sizes and shapes, some of them broken. Macreedy

halts momentarily beside the well. Reaching out he touches

the warped sun-beaten boards that cover the mouth. He removes

one, and, picking up a pebble, drops it through the opening.

There is a long beat and then, from far, far below we HEAR a

faint PLUNK (o.s.). He replaces the board and walks to a

broken wall. He touches the burned out frame of a picture.

The frame falls to the ground, leaving an un-scorched square

on the surface of the wall. He goes past a solitary standing

stone chimney. Suddenly he halts, arrested by something among

the rubble, the rottenness and the ashes.

REVERSE ANGLE - WHAT HE SEES

Surrounded by the seared and blackened earth is a rectangular

patch of lovely wild flowers.

BACK TO MACREEDY

studying the brightly colored flowers. His face is lined in

thought. He stoops, gathers a few buds in his hand. He

examines them, his brow furrowed. As he slowly twirls a flower

between thumb and forefinger, CAMERA PANS from Macreedy in a

long slow arc, taking in miles and miles of barren wasteland.

CAMERA RISES, TILTING UPWARD to a cliff far away and shielded

from Macreedy's view by the intervening rocks and ridges.

EXTREME LONG SHOT - CLIFF

and on it the outline of an automobile.

MED. SHOT - THE CAR

empty. It is parked on a narrow dirt road. On one side of

the road the cliff falls abruptly to the valley far below;

on the other, the steep, shaly outcropping continues to rise.

For a moment CAMERA HOLDS on the car. Then it PANS SLOWLY

upward about fifty feet, HOLDING this time on...

PINNACLE OF CLIFF

where a man is looking off toward Adobe Flat through a pair

of high-powered glasses. The man is Coley Trimble.

ADOBE WELLS - MACREEDY

Grimly he walks toward the jeep, still holding the wild

flowers. Now he pockets them, jumps into the vehicle and

drives off.

THE CLIFF - COLEY

continues to train his glasses on Macreedy far below in the

moving jeep.

THE JEEP - MACREEDY

driving steadily over rough, rocky terrain.

COLEY

climbs down from the pinnacle of the cliff and enters a big,

powerful '36 Packard sedan.

MACREEDY

shifts to low gear as the jeep presses into hilly country.

COLEY - IN HIS CAR

turns on the ignition.

MACREEDY - IN THE JEEP

as it winds along a road with the cliff rising on one side

and falling off steeply on the other. He rounds a curve,

passes an insignificant side road, drives on.

THE SIDE ROAD

The car with Coley at the wheel pulls out, follows Macreedy.

INTERCUT between the two cars, with the distance between

them constantly diminishing.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. - FLAT ROAD

a straightaway, cutting through rocky outcroppings on both

sides. Macreedy's jeep roars by, pursued by the gaining

Packard.

CLOSE SHOT - MACREEDY IN JEEP - (PROCESS)

For the first time he is aware that he is being followed,

and that the man at the wheel of the big Packard is Coley.

SHOT - PACKARD

picking up tremendous speed.

EXT. - ROAD BED

proceeding over a series of turns, inclines, declivities

(according to location terrain). Engines roar, brakes whinny,

tires scream, skidding on the turns.

ANOTHER ANGLE - ROAD BED

as Coley overtakes Macreedy. He steers the big car within a

foot or two of the jeep. The terrain has steepened; on the

right there is nothing between the road and the valley floor

far below but a few inches of soft shoulder.

As Macreedy pulls wide on a razor turn, Coley tries to come

inside him. Macreedy, fighting for control of the veering

jeep, succeeds in cutting him off.

CURVE IN ROAD

In the approach, Coley cuts sharp into the jeep. The jeep

seems to roll with the blow, then leaps ahead, maneuvering

the turn.

CLOSE SHOT COLEY IN CAR (PROCESS)

Coley is flustered, his face blood-shot with fury. He seems

to generate an atmosphere of vicious, cruel craziness; the

wild smile across his mouth is almost sensual, obscene. He

floorboards the Packard. Like some monstrous battering ram,

the heavy car smashes into the jeep's rear bumper, kicking

the smaller vehicle jerkily ahead. Coley floorboards the gas

pedal, again. Each time he slams into the jeep with sickening

force, with the brutal abrasion of metal pounding metal.

CLOSE SHOT - MACREEDY - (PROCESS)

With one arm he works frantically to keep his under-sized

car on the twisty road. He sees ahead a precipitous cliff

falling off on an impossibly sharp curve. He makes a

decision...

Just ahead the gradient is comparatively gradual, however

steep by normal standards. He swings the jeep off the road,

onto the declivity. The car plunges downward, miraculously

upright. Macreedy jockeys it to a whirring, shuddering halt

in the soft sand at the bottom of a draw.

Macreedy turns slightly and looks up the mountain-side with

the road at its summit...

WHAT HE SEES: EXTREME LONG SHOT - COLEY

standing at the edge of the road, peering down at him. In

b.g., the Packard. Coley turns emphatically, gets into car,

drives off.

BACK TO MACREEDY

His face is caked with the sweat of his exertions and dust

kicked up by the grinding wheels. He exhales heavily and

runs a shaky hand across the side of his head. He becomes

aware suddenly of a NOISE, a trickling, an unmistakable tinkle

as of running water. He frowns, opens the jeep door...

MEDIUM SHOT - JEEP

as Macreedy unlatches the hood and throws it open. The NOISE

continues. Macreedy examines the engine and finds the

difficulty...

INSERT - ENGINE

focal point: the nut joining the gas line with the carburetor

has worked loose in the jouncing the car has taken. With his

hand Macreedy screws it tight.

MEDIUM SHOT - JEEP

as Macreedy lowers the hood, re-enters jeep. He turns on

ignition. The engine fires. As he drives slowly out of the

ravine...

EXT. BLACK ROCK - MAIN STREET CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR

his long face even more horsey than usual, with half an apple

in his mouth. He stands in front of the grocery store, with

the baskets of fruit on the sidewalk. He looks up, stops

crunching.

CLOSE SHOT - SAM

at the window of the Bar & Grill, cleaning an ear with a

toothpick. He looks out. The toothpick is motionless.

CLOSE SHOT - HASTINGS

fidgeting outside his shack. He looks up. His Adam's apple

turns completely over.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

REVERSE SHOT - WHAT THEY SEE

Macreedy slowly driving the jeep toward Liz's garage. He

looks neither to the right nor left.

GROUP SHOT - FAVORING SMITH AND COLEY

Standing on the porch of the hotel, watching. Smith's face

compresses, and his eyes swivel to rest on Coley's with cold,

contemptuous anger. Coley licks his lips uneasily. Smith

turns and enters the hotel. Coley meekly follows.

FULL SHOT - MACREEDY

He brakes the jeep before the garage. No one is there. He

parks the vehicle, gets out and heads down the street.

EXT. HOTEL

Macreedy is about to go up the steps when he sees Coley's

car at the curb. Both right fenders are creased. An ugly,

jagged break has split the front bumper almost in half, one

part angling crazily toward the sky, the other drooping in

the dust of the road. Smith and Coley come out of the hotel.

They stand on the porch, watching Macreedy as he in turn

watches the car. They exchange a glance. Smith nods, so...

He walks down the steps to the street, joining Macreedy.

Smith remains on the porch.

He walks up the steps, past Smith, and into the hotel. Coley

glances up at Smith, grinning with self-satisfaction, like a

small boy who has carried out perfectly the instructions of

his teacher.

INT. HOTEL

The lobby empty except for Pete behind the desk. Macreedy

goes to him. Pete seems elaborately occupied arranging and

re-arranging a few file cards. Smith enters the lobby. He

stands in b.g. watching Macreedy and the desk clerk.

He turns, walks toward porch. Pete looks at Smith. Smith's

eyes follow Macreedy.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. LIZ'S GARAGE - FULL SHOT

In the gloom of the lube pit, Liz's mechanic, a dirty old

man, is draining the oil out of the crankcase of the car on

the rack. The girl stands beside the pit, silently watching

the old man. Now she pauses, looks o.s. toward the open garage

doors...

WHAT SHE SEES - MACREEDY

entering the scene, stopping to look at Liz's jeep parked in

front of the wide doors. He turns his eyes vaguely in the

direction of Liz, but he doesn't see her in the shadows behind

the car on the rack, He advances a step, pausing...

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. LUBE PIT - LIZ

She does not answer. Instead, she silently twists the

crankcase petcock, stopping the flow of oil. She watches

Macreedy closely.

INT. GARAGE

Macreedy again shifts his eyes to the jeep, then, with

decision, he goes to a work bench, opening the drawers and

rummaging among the contents.

Macreedy turns as Liz comes toward him. She gestures toward

the open drawers.

Macreedy waits for her to go on. She doesn't. She stands

there, staring at him.

She turns, walks back toward the lube pit.

She doesn't answer. Macreedy goes to her.

She opens her mouth to answer, but she doesn't know what to

say.

He waits as she tries to answer, and again she can't. For a

moment he watches her struggle in anguished silence with

herself. Then he turns and goes out.

EXT. MAIN STREET - MACREEDY

walks thoughtfully down street. He comes abreast of hotel.

EXT. PORCH OF HOTEL

where Smith is still sitting. For a moment he watches Macreedy

speculatively, then...

He stands facing Smith on the porch, then...

He takes the other chair.

Smith laughs quietly.

Macreedy laughs quietly.

He takes the wild flowers from his pocket, holding them in

front of Smith.

Macreedy gets up, half turns to Smith.

He starts down the steps.

He turns and walks down the street.

EXT. MAIN STREET - MACREEDY

headed towards Doc's establishment. The building, which serves

Doc as home, office and laboratory, has centered on a pane

of glass:

T.R. VELIE, JR. UNDERTAKER AND VETERINARY

And in the lower right hand corner:

ASSAYER NOTARY PUBLIC

A few of the peeled gold and black letters are completely

missing.

The building is separated from the structure next to it by

an alleyway. Filling the narrow passage is Hector David, his

long massive body wedged against the wall like an unkempt

monument. His little pig eyes meet Macreedy's. Hector spits

in the dust with bland insolence.

EXT. DOC'S OFFICE - MACREEDY

walks up the steps and enters.

INT. DOC'S OFFICE

Dark and shadowy. At the far end of a hallway an insipid

light bulb burns. Macreedy goes toward it, entering...

INT. DOC'S LAB

devoted to the care and preservation of the Dear Departed.

In the center of the room is a long rectangular slab stained

with the juices of those unfortunates who have had occasion

to rest thereon. The walls are lined with rickety bookcases

jammed, not with volumes, but with the jugs and jars, the

chemicals and unguents of Doc's multiple callings. In a corner

three or four neat pine boxes are stacked one on the other.

Doc sits at a cluttered desk feeding a large bowl of goldfish

and sipping a glass of milk. He looks up as Macreedy enters.

Macreedy reaches for the phone book.

Macreedy thinks it over and comes to a swift decision. He

checks the phone book. Then, picking up phone...

INT. TELEPHONE OPERATOR'S OFFICE

a cubbyhole behind the hotel clerk's desk in the lobby. At

the switchboard is Pete, and above him tacked on the wall is

the sign:

SMILE

CAMERA PULLS BACK revealing Smith standing beside him. The

two men exchange a nod.

INT. DOC'S LAB

Macreedy slowly puts down the phone. Doc sips his milk, all

the while staring queasily over the glass at Macreedy. He

puts it down, his gaze still fixed on the stranger...

He goes to a topographic map hanging on the wall -- a large,

impressive map -- faded, fly-blown and divided into sections.

He moves to photograph beside the map on the wall -- a large,

impressive photograph of a placer mine in operation.

He moves to his desk, picks up a glistening blob of stone,

resting next to an assayer's scales, and examines it...

He bangs the rock down next to the scales.

He moves to a third illustration -- a colored reproduction,

large and impressive -- of acres upon green acres of produce

in bloom; the kind of picture Southern Pacific places above

its calendars.

He moves to the coffins piled in a corner and runs his hand

down the smooth pine sides with loving tenderness.

Doc nods; he points vaguely toward the street...

Macreedy snares the key and walks out. Doc gets up to follow

him.

EXT. REAR OF DOC'S OFFICE

An old-fashioned hearse, with plate glass sides and elaborate

lead candelabra -- Doc's "limousine" -- is parked a few steps

from the door. Macreedy climbs in behind the wheel as Doc

comes out and stands on the small back porch.

Macreedy turns on the ignition switch. His foot kicks over

the starter, but the spark doesn't catch. He tries again,

then again. He pauses, frowns, as Doc comes down from the

porch and joins him.

Again he presses the ignition switch. Nothing. And suddenly,

in b.g., the great bulk of Hector David looms up, leaning

against the porch pillar at the corner of the alleyway. His

expression is almost dreamy. For a moment he stands there

while Macreedy toys with the ignition and the sick engine

wheezes and grinds. Then he ambles up to the hearse...

Macreedy takes the cigarette, lighting a match with one hand.

He puts the fire to Doc's smoke and then lights his own. He

inhales, exhales, thinking. Finally...

Macreedy gets out of the car. Hector has already opened the

hood. Doc peers nervously over his shoulder. As they study

the engine, Hector's horsey face appears behind them. He

gestures toward the engine.

INSERT - THE ENGINE

Focal point: a hopeless snarl of ignition wires.

BACK TO SCENE

Slowly he takes off his wrist watch and puts it in his pants

pocket.

Ignoring Hector, he bends over the engine, controlling his

obvious awareness that Hector has fouled up the ignition.

Hector's eyes go hard. He reaches out suddenly, one great

hand closing over the distributor cap. He yanks, ripping the

feed wires out of their sockets.

Still gripping the wires, he walks off. Doc simmers down. He

turns to face Macreedy, who hasn't moved. Now Macreedy slowly

lowers the hood of the car.

He walks off. Doc looks after him grimly.

INT. TELEGRAPH AGENT'S OFFICE

Macreedy stands at the high counter, writing on a Postal

Telegraph blank. Behind the counter, watching him nervously,

is Hastings. At the agent's elbow is a big pitcher with dew

on the glass. It holds a pale liquid and a chunk of ice. His

eyes on Macreedy, Hastings refills a glass tumbler. He takes

a gulp as Macreedy puts down the pencil and pushes the message

toward him. Now Hastings puts down his glass, picks up the

form and scans it hurriedly. He looks at Macreedy, eyes glazed

with anxiety...

Hastings again refills his glass, slopping the liquid over

on the counter. He picks up the glass, hesitates, offers it

awkwardly to Macreedy.

Macreedy shakes his head. No.

He drinks, puts down the glass. Macreedy pushes the bill

across the counter toward him. Hastings picks it up gingerly

then pauses...

Macreedy turns and walks out. Hastings stands sweating,

staring hard at the message in his hand as...

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. SAM'S BAR & GRILL

A few loafers are at the bar, draped bonelessly on high

stools. There is the usual array of bottles and glasses

aligned before a cracked, discolored mirror. In the corner

is a jukebox. Along the opposite wall is a line of low stools

facing a counter covered with oil-cloth thumb-tacked in place.

Behind it is a greasy hot plate and a couple of soiled

displays -- breakfast food, soft drinks, etc. At the grill

counter is Sam, cleaning his finger-nails with a toothpick.

At the bar, engaged in a worrisome conversation, are four

loafers, FRANKLIN KROOL, WALT MURTRY, RON BENTHAM and STERLING

LENARD.

He looks up, and something makes him hesitate...

WHAT HE SEES -- EXT. BAR & GRILL - MACREEDY

stopping in front of the restaurant. On the window large,

rough capital letters in water paint proclaim:

SAM'S SANITARY BAR & GRILL

Macreedy pauses, shrugs and then enters.

INT. BAR & GRILL

Sam is still working on his finger nails. He evidences little

interest in the stranger, but at the bar in b.g. the loafers

stiffen. Macreedy takes a stool in front of Sam.

Macreedy winces.

The door of the Bar & Grill opens. Smith and Coley enter.

They walk to Macreedy, stopping just a few feet behind him.

He turns again as Sam plops an unseasonable mess of chili in

front of him.

Macreedy smiles tiredly. He half turns toward Coley.

He gets up, with his chili, and sits down three stools away.

Coley straddles the stool Macreedy has vacated. He squirms

on it, his movements exaggerated. Now he spins to face Smith.

Coley opens his mouth but, realizing he has been

outmaneuvered, closes it again. The loafers in b.g. are

silent, watching. Sam, seemingly oblivious to Coley's pressure

on Macreedy, places a bottle of ketchup in front of the

stranger. Coley gets up slowly and walks stiff-legged to

Macreedy. He takes the bottle of ketchup and, without removing

the cap, upends it over Macreedy's plate. The cap is drowned

in a deluge of ketchup which overflows the plate and runs

onto the counter.

Macreedy rises to go out. As he passes Coley, Coley takes

his limp left arm and spins him slowly but firmly around.

The two men face each other.

Macreedy shakes free of Coley's grasp. Coley lunges. His big

right fist streaks toward Macreedy's face. Macreedy ducks,

weaving with the punch. He grabs Coley's belt, twisting

Coley's body. The momentum of the swing throws Coley off

balance. As he goes past Macreedy, the stranger tugs at his

belt, twisting him to one side. He plants his left foot firmly

on the toes of Coley's left boot, for a split second anchoring

Coley in place. He chops the under side of his open hand in

a short, vicious arc that lands solidly under Coley's ear.

With the same motion, he brings the heel of his hand hard

against and slightly under the tip of Coley's nose. The

cartilage shatters. Blood spills down his face. Following

through, Macreedy's elbow smashes beneath Coley's cheekbone.

Macreedy's arm goes past the astonished, wind-burned face,

finding Coley's right wrist. He jerks the wrist out and

backward. It snaps. Coley whimpers, his face twisted in pain

and perplexity. His body lolls forward. Macreedy steps back.

He raises his right shoulder a few inches. His bent right

arm drives up like a piston attached to the shoulder's lift.

Fist and arm seem all one rigid piece with only the limber

shoulder giving them motion. The fist strikes Coley's face,

covering for a moment one side of his chin and a corner of

his mouth between cheekbone and jawbone. Coley shuts his

eyes and falls unconscious.

Smith, a puzzled expression on his face, watches Coley fall.

He takes half a step toward him. Macreedy looks at Smith.

Smith stops. Macreedy's face is wooden, with a trace of

sullenness around the hard lines of his mouth. Working

methodically, Macreedy frisks Coley. He takes from a pocket

a long, ugly knife. He snaps the spring and the four-inch

blade leaps into place. He looks at the knife in his hand

and then at Smith. He smiles gently, even dreamily.

Macreedy walks slowly toward him, holding the knife. The are

only three feet apart. Smith's hand goes to a pocket, closes

inside over the outline of a pistol. Sam glances from Macreedy

to Smith to the unconscious Coley. He sidles toward the door

and runs out fast. (NOTE: From this point to end of scene

INTERCUT from Macreedy and Smith to exploit the reactions of

the loafers at the bar.)

With a quick motion, he tosses the knife to Smith. Smith

catches it.

He walks past Smith and goes out the door. Self-consciously

holding the knife, Smith turns to face the loafers at the

bar. They say nothing; they stare at him, through him, like

a panel of ghouls. The door opens, admitting Sam and Doc,

who carries his little black medical bag. Doc looks at Coley.

He goes to Coley, bending down over him. Smith has remained

motionless as a monument. Now he doubles shut the knife in

his hand. He pockets it, and without even glancing at Coley,

turns quickly and goes out.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY

Doc sits deep in the battered upholstery of one of the chairs.

He stares fiercely across the room at Smith who is on the

couch, reading a neatly folded newspaper. Behind him at the

clerk's desk, Pete is fitfully involved in a game of

solitaire. At the foot of the stairs Hector is pouring change

into a slot machine. It whines, grinds, and clicks with

rhythmic monotony, but it never seems to pay off. In the

chair nearest Doc is Tim, with one of his boots off. He works

hard and with some concentration, removing the other. Then

he places them neatly at the foot of his chair. He wiggles

his toes -- watching them with some interest.

The wheeze and whir of the slot machine stops. The sudden

silence turns the eyes of the men toward Hector and the one-

arm bandit. They follow his gaze up the steps.

STAIRWAY - MACREEDY

walks down, carrying his suitcase. He goes to Pete at the

clerk's desk.

As Macreedy turns from the desk, Doc joins him.

Smith coolly continues to read his paper. It is Hector who

turns toward Doc...

Macreedy ignores the exchange of words. He walks across the

frayed carpet to the nearest chair and drops into it. Doc,

who has followed him, stands looking down at Macreedy for a

long moment. Then...

Doc follows his gaze as Hastings enters the lobby and looks

around. He sees Macreedy coming toward him. He walks rigidly

in an arc past Macreedy to Smith. He holds out a Postal

Telegraph form. Smith puts down his paper and takes it.

Macreedy, followed by Doc, goes over to Smith. Tim in his

stockinged feet joins them.

Smith scans the message. He looks up to meet Macreedy's gaze.

Smith rises. Hector swaggers over from the slot machine.

Hastings slips around the back of the couch, protected by

the barricade of Hector's great body.

Hastings is silent. A brittle expression of bemusement crosses

Smith's features.

Macreedy's mouth compresses in a harsh grin.

Macreedy takes a step toward Hastings. The telegraph agent

bounces away.

Tim hesitates, blinking his eyes worriedly, shifting from

one stockinged foot to the other. Smith watches him insolently

as he takes the message from Macreedy and gestures with it

vaguely...

He reaches out, clawing the badge from Tim's chest. He jabs

it on Hector's vest.

Hector moves his elephantine bulk within inches of Macreedy...

Macreedy doesn't answer. Hector takes the message from Tim's

limp hand and tears it into little pieces.

Macreedy doesn't answer.

He walks out, the new Sheriff strutting beside him, with

Hastings in their wake. For a moment Macreedy, Doc and Tim

stand in the center of the lobby. Pete eyes them non-

committally and goes back to his solitaire. He glances up

now and then, moving the cards with a purposeful sort of

slowness, as of a more natural swiftness restrained by his

preoccupation with the three men in the lobby.

Macreedy is deep in thought. Abstractedly he tugs at his

collar and then repeats the ritual of lighting a cigarette.

Tim's shoulders are slumped. Humiliation has corroded him,

flesh and soul. Even Doc is momentarily subdued; he too,

feels degraded, unclean. Macreedy looks from one to the other

of the good, ineffectual companions that circumstance has so

haphazardly tossed his way. He takes a few steps to his

suitcase, Doc and Tim trailing him; Doc, for want of something

better to do; Tim, out of his deep, inexpressible need for

support. Macreedy takes an untapped bottle of whiskey from

his bag. He thumbs the cork loose and holds the bottle out

to Tim. Tim takes a drink.

The light on the clerk's desk goes on, and we are aware that

day has gone and that night is falling. The pressing, fierce

light has drained from the lobby, leaving a shadowy, silvery

dreariness. The shadows have lengthened and the silver has

tarnished with the darkness.

Pete comes out from behind the desk, walking from one lamp

in the lobby to another, turning them on.

He hands Doc the whiskey bottle.

He downs a snort, then looks at Pete, who approaches them.

As Pete turns on the lamp behind Doc, he reacts ever so

slightly to Doc's words. His almost imperceptible grimace is

not lost on Macreedy. Macreedy watches the young man as he

continues to light the lamps...

Doc slams the whiskey bottle down on a nearby table.

Self-consciously Pete has backed off until now he leans

against the outside of the clerk's desk. But he still can't

shut his ears to what Doc is saying...

Tim sighs, running a thick hand over his forehead...

There is a moment of crashing silence. Then...

Slowly he lumbers out of the lobby. Doc watches him go. Again

the benumbing silence, cut finally, unexpectedly by...

His right hand closes over the neck of the whiskey bottle on

the end table. Abstractedly fingering it, he walks with tense,

deliberate steps toward Pete at the desk.

He continues to advance inexorably toward Pete.

He is now within a couple of yards of Pete.

For a moment Pete stares at Macreedy, terribly disturbed by

the incisiveness of Macreedy's analysis. Then...

In sudden frustration, Pete grabs the deck of cards on the

clerk's desk and slams them down hard. They scatter. He turns,

stares blankly [...] between Doc and Macreedy.

Pete doesn't answer.

Pete nods helplessly, bowing his head. Macreedy sighs, looks

down at the bottle in his hand, slowly puts it on the table...

Silence. Doc, realizing the enormity of Macreedy's admission,

frowns, rubs a hand across his tired eyes. Pete looks at

Macreedy for a long, shocked moment. He shivers.

He takes the bottle from the table and shakily pours a shot

glass of liquor. As he raises it to his mouth...

Pete is motionless, holding the glass inches from his lips,

hypnotized by Macreedy's voice, as hard and as cold as his

eyes...

Macreedy's hand shoots out, in a short, inexorable arc,

smashing his palm across the shot glass. The whiskey bursts

in a spray, the glass flies halfway across the room,

shattering as it lands against something solid. Pete is

stunned, Doc perplexed, at Macreedy's violence. They stare

at him...

Macreedy's eyes are murky. The creases between the brows

over his nose are deep. His nostrils move in and out with

his breathing. Pete and Doc regard him with growing

uneasiness. Rage comes into Macreedy's face, turning it a

painful red.

Pete squirms under Macreedy's relentless attack.

Macreedy grabs the bottle, shoving it across the table toward

Pete.

Pete pushes the bottle aside, too ravaged by Macreedy's words

and his own thoughts to drink. He shakes his head grimly and

then, with sudden decision, goes to the switchboard and plugs

in a line.

ANOTHER ANGLE - MACREEDY AND DOC

as they exchange a glance. Doc takes a long, deep breath of

relief. Macreedy frowns thoughtfully. He strains to listen

to Liz, but all he (and we) can hear is the staccato jumble

of her words over the wire.

WIDER ANGLE - FAVORING PETE

he cuts Liz short...

Again Liz's voice incoherent over the phone, and again...

Slowly he replaces the phone on the switch-board. He comes

around from behind the desk, joining Macreedy and Doc.

INT. HOTEL LOBBY - PETE, HECTOR AND DOC - NIGHT

Pete and Doc are nervously alert, drained of energy, waiting.

Hector is downright bored. He toys with his pistol, squinting

at it, twirling the barrel. Finding neither interest nor

pleasure in the piece, he jams it back in his holster and

strolls with exaggerated surety out on the porch.

EXT. PORCH - NIGHT

The congregation of loafers look up as Hector emerges. Imbued

with his own bullying importance, he draws the pistol,

maneuvers an extravagant pinwheel and a few other gaudy

tricks. Then he sighs as boredom again takes over. He walks

down the steps to catch a bit of air.

INT. LOBBY - DOC AND PETE

The disappearance of Hector (o.s.) down the street galvanizes

them into action. They hurry out of the lobby toward the

back of the hotel.

EXT. ALLEY - BEHIND HOTEL - NIGHT

Vague in the pallid light escaping through a few back windows.

The hotel's rear door is tightly shut. Around the far corner

of the street (extreme b.g.) comes the gangling body of Hector

David. He walks toward CAMERA. Perhaps twenty-five yards

away he stops to rest against a fence like a leaning tower.

CLOSE SHOT - HECTOR

His hand goes to a pocket and comes out with a crumpled half

pack of cigarettes. Suddenly the movement is arrested;

something at the other end of the street captures his bleak

attention.

WHAT HE SEES

A jeep, headlights off, slowly turns the corner, pulls up to

the curb and parks.

BACK TO SCENE - HECTOR

pockets his cigarettes and starts slowly for the jeep, a

quizzical frown on his horsy face. He approaches the back

door of the hotel, oblivious to it as he continues toward

the jeep.

INT. REAR HALLWAY OF HOTEL - NIGHT

At the far end b.g., toward the lobby, a single unshaded

light bulb burns dully. A slight figure stands in f.g. To

one side is a narrow U-shaped alcove blanketed in heavy

shadows. The features of the man in the hall and the slim

lines of his body blend vaguely in the darkness. With enormous

care, he turns a knob and opens the door leading to the alley

behind the hotel. Light thrown by the back windows reveals

that the figure is Pete. The same pallid light from the alley,

glancing across the alcove, momentarily illuminates it. Glued

as close to the recessed wall as is humanly possible is Doc.

He is partially shielded by one of those hotel hose wheels

around which an old fire hose is wound. The heavy brass nozzle

of the hose hangs from the end.

Doc grips a twelve-inch length of lead pipe. Pete swallows

nervously and peers outside, first to the right, then to the

left. His eyes glaze with fear, and his jaw tightens with

tension.

EXT. ALLEY - ANOTHER ANGLE - FAVORING PETE

as he stares at Hector walking toward the jeep.

Hector stops, turns to face Pete. He hesitates, then...

Then, with a final glance at the jeep, Hector lumbers to

Pete, who disappears inside the hallway.

INT. REAR HALLWAY

as Hector enters and stops. Pete quickly closes the door

behind him and walks toward the lobby, attempting to draw

Hector toward the black alcove center screen b.g. But Hector

is not to be sucked in. He glares at Pete, waiting. (NOTE:

The following dialogue is delivered sotto voce.)

He jams a cigarette in his mouth. Pete watches him frantically

as he searches his pockets for a match. He can't find one.

He starts to turn. Hector's pig eyes are slits of suspicion.

Before Pete can move, Hector reaches out, hooking two heavy

fingers inside a pocket of Pete's shirt. Slowly Hector's

expression changes to one of insidious cunning. His fingers

come out of Pete's pocket, and between them is a paper book

of matches.

Pete is unable to answer. He is scared to death.

INT. ALCOVE - DOC

sweating with frustration. Hector is six feet away, and armed --

too far away for Doc to risk an attack with his lead pipe.

Doc looks around vaguely, wildly, for another weapon. A

fraction of an inch from his nose is the hose wheel. For a

split second he hesitates. Then slowly, with infinite care,

he tightens the heavy brass nozzle and begins to unwind the

hose.

INT. REAR HALLWAY

Now Hector is alert. He studies Pete's twitching face.

Elaborately he tears a match from the pack and scratches it.

It takes fire, cupped in the rampart of his big hands. It

lights up the hall, and as Hector looks around he sees

something through a mirror -- over his shoulder and six feet

away Doc materializes out of the shadows of the alcove. As

Hector whirls, going for his gun, Doc swings the hose with

sudden deadly aim. It uncoils like a snake, and the brass

nozzle crashes with a mighty thud across Hector's skull.

Hector groans. He sinks unconscious to the floor. Doc stands

there, paralyzed by his action. Pete tears toward the lobby.

INT. LOBBY

as Pete rushes in. He moves directly to the desk, leans over

and presses the buzzer behind the desk three times. He turns

and runs back toward the rear of the building.

INT. REAR STAIRS

as Macreedy barrels down. He pauses briefly in the hall as

he sees Doc still standing with the hose and the nozzle

dangling like a pendulum from his hand. Their eyes lock

briefly in understanding...

He heads toward the alley.

EXT. ALLEY

as Macreedy rushes out. He pauses, looking quickly right,

then left. He sees a jeep parked at the curb far down the

street. He runs toward it. The jeep, its headlights off,

starts for him. He swings onto the moving vehicle, falling

heavily into the seat beside Liz Brooks. He slumps there,

breathing heavily as the jeep, with a grinding of gears,

cuts through the night, picking up speed.

INT. REAR HALLWAY

as Pete joins Doc. Silently, motionlessly, the two men stare

for a long moment at Hector -- particularly at the pistol

lying beside him. Then they look at each other, and the same

thought seems to flash in their minds...

EXT. ROAD - MACREEDY AND LIZ

as they speed down the long empty ribbon of road. Liz drives

hard. Macreedy turns in the bucket seat, looking back toward

Black Rock.

Macreedy does not answer.

MED. SHOT - JEEP

with Liz and Macreedy as she cuts sharply into a crossroad.

She drives skillfully over the knotty road which is little

more than a trail. Her lovely features are distorted with

her discontent and the ache for attention. After a moment

she gives voice to her fantasy...

He does not catch the glance she darts him; his extreme

awareness is anchored not to the girl at his side but to the

terrain ahead.

His eyes strain to sweep the country -- each boulder, each

outcropping, each stunted tree. But substance and shadow are

blurred and fuzzy in the dark night, black on black.

OUT

Sequence omitted from original script.

ANOTHER ANGLE - JEEP

with Macreedy and Liz as it winds to the far end of the

boulders on a trail that drops off into a flat basin. Solid

forms loom up in the darkness; they are unrecognizable, yet

Macreedy senses some tense familiarity with the terrain...

He frowns. Suddenly Liz brakes the jeep -- so sharply Macreedy

lurches forward in the seat.

She moves away from Macreedy to get out of the jeep. He

reaches across quickly, gripping her arm. She turns to face

him, disturbed by his hardness of jaw and eye...

Suddenly they are hit by a blinding pair of headlights like

[...] The beams cut jaggedly through the night, throwing

into sharp immediate relief the lava rocks, the broken

windmill, the gutted house, the litter-strewn, unmarked grave

at Adobe Flat.

Liz throws away the ignition key. Macreedy bails out of the

jeep, still holding the girl.

CLOSE TWO SHOT - LIZ AND MACREEDY

as they fall to the earth. Macreedy pins her down. Then in

quick succession, four emphatically loud SHOTS from a rifle

squirt into the shale around them.

He looks up blindly into the headlights glaring from the

granitic high ground some 60 yards away. His grip on the

girl's shoulder is like a steel trap. He pushes her down

beside Komako's grave, hugging the side of the jeep as a

SHOT rips the gravel at their feet. Pulling the girl with

him, he takes cover in the slight concavity of the grave.

The jeep is between them and the headlights -- between them

and the source of the gunfire. Liz struggles to break away.

Suddenly bullets kick up a storm around him. A bullet smashes

into the flowers, exploding tiny cruel fragments of dirt

into Macreedy's face. He gasps in pain, releasing Liz. He

rubs his eyes as if to convince himself that he is not blind.

Liz breaks from the grave. Now, five yards from Macreedy...

Liz half turns, facing Macreedy with a vicious smile...

She starts toward the headlights.

GO WITH LIZ

She reaches the foot of the rocky ridge, with the two enormous

eyes on top. She begins to climb, up... up...

She is almost at the top; a vertically sheer rock about five

feet high separates her from it. She looks up at Smith,

towering over her at the edge of the precipice. He holds his

rifle almost languorously.

The girl is frightened by the menace in Smith's voice.

He brings the rifle down, aiming almost casually at Liz. Her

eyes go wide. She steps back, spins around, running crazily

down the steep incline.

A SHOT rings out. She falls forward, rolling slowly down the

embankment. She lies there. Blood trickles from the corner

of her pretty mouth. A rattling noise rises from deep in her

throat, and then subsides.

In the silence the outline of Reno Smith emerges. Holding

his rifle at the ready, his silhouette illuminated sharply

in the twin beams of light, he climbs down the side of the

cliff. He looks toward the jeep and Macreedy, not once at

the girl at his feet.

Smith pays no attention to her. He advances inexorably with

rifle held at his hip. He fires at Macreedy.

EXT. GRAVE

Macreedy wipes the last of the fragments from his eyes. His

face is still streaked with dirt and shale. He turns,

searching for something, anything, to fight back with. Then

he remembers... Stiffening, his body set, his eyes narrow,

he moves purposefully toward the front of the jeep and crawls

under it. Again Smith opens up on him. Bullet after bullet

pours into the confined space, nicking the wall, ricocheting

off the jeep with a frightening, fluttery, wheezing sound.

The firing stops again and in the silence we HEAR a familiar

TRICKLE, as in running water...

EXT. RANCH - SMITH

re-loads his rifle. Stiffly, he starts slowly down over the

rocks toward his unarmed victim...

MACREEDY

He has unscrewed the nut and unconnected the gas line with

the carburator. A spurt of gasoline is running out. With a

quick motion he picks up an empty whisky bottle from the

litter-strewn earth. He fills it with gasoline, quickly screws

the nut back on. Now he sweeps his necktie free of his collar.

Holding it with his teeth, he tears the felt lining free

from its silk face. He twists half the lining inside the

bottle, knotting the other end securely around the bottle's

neck, leaving a long strand dangling.

EXT. RANCH - CLOSE SHOT - SMITH

moving rigidly toward the hole. He stops, levels his rifle,

fires.

EXT. GRAVE - MACREEDY

pinned down in the direct line of fire. The burst of the

rifle stops.

EXT. RANCH - SMITH

not more than twenty-five yards away, advancing carefully,

rifle at the ready.

EXT. GRAVE - MACREEDY

lights a match, placing the flame to the dangling end of the

tie. It catches. He flings himself to his feet and with the

same motion whips the fiery bottle like a football, hard and

straight toward Smith. Smith fires once, fast and wild. The

bottle crashes against the rocks at his feet and bursts with

a shattering explosion. Smith screams as the razor-sharp

slivers rip his flesh. In a puff of flame, his clothes ignite.

He drops the rifle and goes down, squirming frantically on

the black ashy ground.

EXT. RANCH - FULL SHOT

favoring Macreedy as he tears out of the hole. He hurls

himself at Smith. Wooden-faced, almost dreamy-eyed, he shovels

the ashy dirt over Smith's prone chest, putting out the fire.

Smith struggles halfway to his feet. Macreedy grabs his

shoulder, helping him up. Smith looks at Macreedy through

eyes bleary with fear and pain and shock.

He drives his right fist against Smith's chin. Smith's head

snaps back as far as it can go and then wobbles to rest on

his chest. He collapses. Macreedy blows out his breath hard.

He staggers to Liz. As he bends over her...

EXT. BLACK ROCK - DAY (DAWN)

Liz's jeep, driven by Macreedy, rolls slowly down the empty

main street of the sleeping town. Behind him, under a tarp,

the body of the girl lies lifeless across the seat. On the

seat beside him is Smith's rifle, the balance a few inches

from Macreedy's elbow. On the right front fender of the jeep

Smith sits precariously, his shirt scorched and ragged. He

wears a sullen expression of pained indifference.

In b.g., as the jeep passes, isolated lights go on, first in

Doc's house, then in two or three others. Macreedy is

oblivious to them.

EXT. JAIL - CLOSE SHOT - A MAN

almost completely hidden, looks out grimly from a corner of

the jail window. Protruding through the bars, swiveling to

follow the progress of the jeep down the street, is the long,

ugly muzzle of a rifle.

EXT. MAIN STREET - JEEP

as Macreedy pulls up to the curb in front of the jail and

cuts the ignition. He grabs the rifle, and steps around to

Smith.

Smith complies.

EXT. JAIL

as Macreedy marches Smith up the steps. The jail door opens.

A man emerges, wearing a Mackinaw over his vest and carrying

a rifle. It is Tim. For a moment Macreedy eyes him in silence.

His gun finger tightens on the rifle in his hand. Tim's rifle,

too, is at the ready...

The SOUND of running feet padding along the dirt road

increases on SOUND TRACK. Macreedy turns slightly, to see

Doc huffing toward him. The older man climbs the jail steps

and comes to an abrupt halt, his eyes going from one to the

other of the two men in the stand-off.

He pulls Tim's Mackinaw to one side, revealing the silver-

plated star pinned at the breast.

Macreedy swings his rifle from Tim to Smith. Tim lowers his,

stepping to one side, allowing Smith, covered by Macreedy,

to enter the jail. He goes in, Doc following. Pete sits

silently at Tim's desk.

INT. JAIL

In one of the two cells are Coley and Hector. In the other,

Sam and Hastings.

Tim turns his key in the cell door. Macreedy tiredly goes to

Pete at the desk.

Pete rises. Macreedy halts him momentarily, gripping his

arm...

Pete walks dazedly out the door. Tim grabs Smith's shoulder

and propels him roughly through the cell door. He slams it

hard. As the clatter of the iron door reverberates harshly...

EXT. HOTEL - BLACK ROCK - DAY

The townspeople, with Doc f.g., are gathered silently in the

street, staring sadly, dumbly at the hotel before them. Doc

wears a dark business suit, neat and conservative. The door

opens (o.s.) and the people look up, their eyes lighting

with expectancy.

WHAT THEY SEE

Macreedy comes out of the door, carrying his suitcase. For a

moment he pauses, looking at the uplifted faces of the people

in the street. In the distance we HEAR the horn of a stream-

liner. Macreedy goes down the steps, skirts the watching

crowd and heads for the railroad station. Almost immediately

Doc falls in step with him. The townspeople, still silent,

trail after them

MOVING SHOT - MACREEDY AND DOC

in f.g., the townspeople behind them. In b.g., as we pass,

we see the main street just as we saw it when Macreedy entered

town a few short hours ago.

Doc nods. He blinks and frowns...

A NOISE o.s. attracts Macreedy's attention. He turns, as do

Doc and the townsmen.

WHAT THEY SEE

In front of the jail, each of them handcuffed, are Smith,

Coley, Hector, Sam and Hastings. Tim and four cops escort

them to two State Police cars which are parked beside Tim's

old sedan and another car (presumably belonging to a member

of the press). The newspaperman (WITHOUT A PRESS CARD IN HIS

HAT) stands to one side with Pete. Pete as well as Tim have

changed clothes; they look clean and trim. Coley has his arm

in a sling. Hector's hat hides the bandage on his head.

BACK TO SCENE

Macreedy resumes walking toward the abandoned station, with

Doc at his side and the people behind him. The train pulls

in.

Macreedy is silent. He walks on, to the platform. He pauses,

looking at the people silently in his wake and then at Doc.

He takes a black velvet-covered box from his pocket -- the

box containing the medal -- looks at it, and slowly hands it

to Doc.

Macreedy turns and exits from SHOT. The people look after

him.

EXT. PLATFORM

as Macreedy boards the train.

EXT. STREET

The cars in front of the jail U-turn and start off with the

prisoners. The people move silently toward the train.

EXT. TRAIN

Macreedy is at the passageway. Slowly the train moves out.

INT. PASSAGEWAY OF TRAIN

Macreedy and a conductor stand at the doorway. The town is

seen behind them and the people standing there. In the

distance, Tim's car recedes.

He walks into the train.

LONG SHOT - TRAIN

gathering speed, diminishing, far, far into the horizon.

NOTES

Note from page [9]: (1) The sign should be of whatever type

is feasible and compatible to terrain, emphasizing the

remoteness of Black Rock. It should list three cities with

arrows pointing in the proper directions:

SAND CITY 32 MILES

PHOENIX 156 MILES

