Follow this SEQUENCE as...

A LISTENING STATION in England scoops up MILLIONS of CELL

PHONE CALLS...Sifts through BILLIONS of words...One word

EMERGES from the CHATTER...

BLACKBRIAR

A TECHNICIAN sends the data to NSA back in the

States...Where another COMPUTER gathers up the rest of the

phone call...As we listen...

And there in the CRI HUB, another TECHNICIAN receives the

DATA. Stops SUPERVISOR and reports.

NOAH VOSEN, deft and confident, arrives at CRI

Headquarters.

As VOSEN steps out of the elevator and into his office, he

is met by his #2, WILLS.

They enter a hallway through double doors towards the HUB.

As they pass through, colleague hands WILLS a file.

They enter the HUB.

BOURNE buys a newspaper, enters the station and gets on the

EUROSTAR.

VOSEN and WILLIS listen to the phone call.

VOSEN turns.

VOSEN steps out from DATA ROOM...addresses the HUB.

ROSS'S information come up on the center screen.

No response from the HUB.

The EUROSTAR winds it's way to London.

BOURNE reads The Guardian. He sees an article written by

Simon Ross.   Title: "RENEGADE ASSASSIN LOSE IN EUROPE".

It mentions BOURNE. There is a photo of Marie--

Marie smiles at him. Marie shot. Marie fades into the

depths, dead. Bourne burns Marie's stuff

BOURNE comes out of the flashback.    He is still carrying

the pain of her loss

Bourne finds Ross's name on the masthead, then goes to the

name just below it in the news department.

Ross crosses a busy London street -- heads to Guardian

office building. A CRI TEAM watches from a parked car.

TECH #1 watches the data arrive.

VOSEN watches the feed.

A surveillance picture flashes onscreen -- ROSS works in

his office. HUB chatter about ROSS phone.

Off VOSEN.

ROSS reports to his EDITOR.

A REPORTER sticks her head in.

ROSS leaves to pick up the call.

ROSS crosses the busy newsroom...

ROSS picks up the phone.

VOSEN watches as ROSS takes phone call.

WILLS looks confused.

ROSS listens.

BOURNE hangs up.

ROSS looks bewildered -- hangs up the phone -- gathers his

stuff -- puts his notebook in his pocket and leaves.

The HUB reacts. .

SURVEY ONE has panned down to the entrance of the GUARDIAN

building. Because ROSS is on the move...

ROSS hails a BLACK TAXI. The SILVER VAN pulls out behind

him...

VOSEN watches as the feed from the SILVER VAN comes

through.

BOURNE arrives on the EUROSTAR.      Enters the station.

As the taxi moves away, the SILVER VAN pulls out behind it.

A CYCLE COURIER momentarily blocks its path. Looking in on

ROSS sifting through documents in the back seat.

BOURNE moving toward the rendezvous...

ROSS pays the DRIVER, exits. Checks his watch.      Looks

around. Isn't sure what his next move is--

TECHNICIANS searching for ROSS on the busy street.

MOBILE ONE-- two people from the van-- take up a position

in an open stairwell three floors up. They focus a camera

down on Ross.

BOURNE buys a cell phone. Activates the SIM card on the new

phone. Dumps the pay-as-you-go package in a bin. Rounds a

corner. Out of sight.

Screens come alive with a POV of ROSS. VOSEN studies the

monitors. ROSS arrives at Waterloo, pays TAXI.

ROSS moves to the entrance.

Behind him, inside the tube station portico, BOURNE

arrives.

Sees ROSS. Sees the two survey teams. MOBILE ONE up the

stair well and MOBILE TWO at street level.

Commuters coming up the escalators. BOURNE joins them -

moving towards Ross.

Closer.

Right on him.   ROSS oblivious.   Looking out onto the

street.

BOURNE brushes past him and PUTS THE PHONE IN HIS POCKET..

ROSS feels the contact. Checking himself -- he's okay.

But now a phone is ringing -- looks around, must be someone

else.

But the vibration's coming from his jacket pocket.

ROSS takes out the phone -- not his -- puzzled.

ROSS hits "answer."

VOSEN watching...

Wills keys in a CODE...

PAZ, 20s, cool and predatory, drives and waits for

instructions...His PHONE buzzes...He reads the

code...Accelerates toward Waterloo Station...

BOURNE reaches the top of the stairwell on the other side

of the road.

His POV to the left -- a LONDON BUS is approaching.

To the right -- a young man in a hooded top -- speaking on

his cell -- walking toward a BUS STOP...

A plan is forming.

SURVEY TWO -- camera zooming in on ROSS.

PANNING TO REVEAL

VOSEN thinking it over as he watches the image of ROSS.

ROSS looking around.    Then --

ROSS has clocked him.

The HOODY walks to the bus stop. One hands-free EARBUD

swaying down by his side as he moves to a seat.

Sitting down. Checking his watch.

ROSS shifting nervously from one foot to another.

The LONDON BUS approaching.

ROSS begins to move.

Things are beginning to happen.

Screen POV. ROSS standing next to the HOODY -- head down.

Trying to play it cool -- ROSS in clear view of the

cameras. "Speaking" with the HOODY. Camera zooming in.

Just then --

A BUS pulling up to the bus stop, blocking both SURVEYS'

views. Rifle mics picking up the bus chatter, instead of

ROSS.

VOSEN.   Annoyed now.

The crackle of the survey teams as they try and reframe.

POV SCREEN -- SURVEY ONE seeing the bus clear.   The HOODY

has gone.

POV ANOTHER SCREEN -- SURVEY TWO -- camera finally catching

up, picking out the HOODY on the bus as it begins to pull

away.

TECH'S giving orders...

SURVEY TWO -- three men racing across the road on foot.

Weaving through heavy traffic.

BOURNE watching his plan unfold...Only a few seconds to get

ROSS out of there...

ROSS rearing this -- Moving away --

The BUS moves up to the traffic light.   The AGENTS moving

across the street...

VOSEN looking at the screens.   Pointing...

One AGENT peeling off, to keep ROSS in check.

The other two AGENTS racing to the bus as it pulls away

from the lights. Kicking the doors open, leaping on.

GUNS drawn.     So quick.   Passengers screaming.

Pushing the HOODY to the floor.

On the HOODY.

The HOOD is pulled back.

An innocent YOUNG MAN -- terrified, bewildered.

ROSS on the move across the walkway.

SURVEY ONE moving up the steps, only to meet-

BOURNE coming down. Three quick moves and he's down-

slumped against a wall- just another drunk to step over in

the rush hour.

Pulls the feed. Takes the earbud. Then back up and falls

into step behind ROSS.

Listening in to the chaos he has caused -- an ocean away.

TECHIES scrambling to restore the feed.     VOSEN staring.

PAZ parked up -- gets the call -- pulls out into the

traffic.

Slicing through to the target area. Waterloo up ahead.

A SECOND SURVEY TEAM -- out of their vehicles.   Furtively

they lock and load their side arms.

Fanning out towards the station.

Bourne stops Ross, surprising him.

One AGENT, then another approaching.

He dials.

ROSS spinning round. Dipping left.   BLACK TOP passing in

the background missing him.

BOURNE crossing close behind - marshalling the pieces at

breakneck speed.

ROSS turning.   Weaving through the commuters.

BOURNE seeing cameras turn.    ROSS heading into their path.

BOURNE seeing ROSS dip out of view as a group of TOURISTS

block the CCTV's line of sight.

That same scene -- scores of TOURISTS -- from VOSEN's point

of view. The TECHS try to get another angle...

ROSS looking through the sea of legs as he finishes tying

his laces. Cameras sweeping past.

ROSS on the move. Sweating. Paranoid.

Seeing a BIN MAN coming toward him -- reaching into his

trolley.

But ROSS swerves out of his path as the BIN MAN pulls out --

a bunch of keys.

CCTV CAMERAS turn -- ZOOMING IN ON ROSS.

Ross' face on all screens.

VOSEN pacing.

Frenzied teching as they capture and transmit an image of

Ross to...

PAZ flipping open his phone. A voice crackling in his

earpiece.

Paz jamming the wheel hard right. Doing a high speed U-

turn.

Heading towards the east side of the station.

BOURNE realizes ROSS has been seen. Sees the AGENTS

starting to form the box...

ROSS moving faster.

WILLS gives orders...

PAZ pulling into a side street. Out towards a series of

arches that lead underneath the terminal. In his ear...

PAZ through the archway. Grabbing a station plan. Studying

it.

Through doors.

On his way to the kill zone.

ROSS moving through crowds around the departures board.

BOURNE hearing that last exchange in his earpiece too.

Asset in play?

BOURNE's POV: AGENTS closing the box. The departures board.

Platform 7. A train waiting.

Commuters waiting for the platform

CCTV view of the silver door behind Threshers that ROSS is

behind (not Bourne). Wills is on phone.

On his cell phone Paz receives a text indicating Bourne's

location. Paz finds the silver door and aims his rifle at

it.

SCOPE POV

A shape barely visible moving behind the window.           (It's

Ross but Paz and the Hub think it's Bourne.

INTERCUTTING BETWEEN ROSS AND BOURNE:

Bourne spots the agents pulling back per Wills' orders.

Paz awaiting his shot--

Vosen holds up the file we saw him pull out of his safe.

It is labeled "Blackbriar: Lethal Action Protocol."

Landy opens up the file. Sees the words "instantaneous

lethal action is authorized when..."

BOURNE and NICKY ride the ferry from Gibraltar to

Morocco...

His phone rings.    He picks it up.

Vosen jumps up, sprints toward the hub--

Vosen rushes in--

She opens a file on her desk.

Bourne listening--

Vosen realizes--

She spins to look for Bourne--

Vosen moving across the floor.

Bourne races up a set of stairs the rooftop parking lot.

He surveys every aspect of his environment on the fly

(which includes his taking a quick peak over the concrete

railing at the east end of the roof.

Next Bourne rushes toward the parked cars. Smashes the

window of one to set off its alarm.   Then a second and a

third, setting off their alarms.

The fourth window Bourne smashes in doesn't set off an

alarm. Bourne pulls the door open and climbs in.

Inside the car Bourne reaches under the dash and yanks

handful of wires off the steering column and starts to

expertly hotwire the car.

Agents race up stairwells.   Two CRI cars careen up the

ramp to the passenger parking (a separate ramp to the bus

ramp we saw Bourne on earlier.) A third CRI car races

through the parking level just below the roof and up the

circular ramp to the roof.

INT. VOSEN'S SUV -- DAY

EXT. ROOFTOP PARKING LOT -- PORT AUTHORITY

Bourne works to hotwire the car.

A CRI car gets to the roof.   Two agents come from the

elevator lobby.   The three car alarms distract them. They

search for Bourne, but can't find him at first...

Bourne gets the car engine on - but, given the wonders of

modern anti-theft technology his steering wheel is still

locked.

A second CRI car arrives.

Bourne slams the car into low gear and backs up at high

speed.

He smashes into the car across the aisle from him. With a

sharp metallic snap the wheel in Bourne's car is suddenly

free, he jams the car into drive pulls out into lane and

stops.

Three CRI cars here now. Two head straight for him.   A

third blocks the exit ramp.

Bourne checks the rearview and sees two more agents pour

from the elevator lobby, one carrying the serious firepower

of an M-4 (an M-16 variant whose bullets can penetrate

metal and concrete). They move into position to get a bead

on him.

Bourne assesses. But he doesn't move. The agents swarm

toward him. What the hell is he doing? Why is he waiting?

The agents clear their obstructions and drop their barrels

toward Bourne--

But before they can get a bead--

Bourne slams the car into reverse again.   Petal to the

metal in reverse--

The agents open fire.

Bourne ducks the lead slugs ripping through the windshield.

But there's no dodging the shower of broken glass.

As Bourne disappears below the dashboard, the CRI agent

adjusts his fire into the car's grill.

Virtually blind, Bourne races the hard-pressed vehicle

backwards as the agent's fire decimates the car's

driveline.

Bourne slips the car into neutral and takes a quick peek

behind him.

Steers still speeding but quickly dying car towards a small

gap between two parked cars at the edge of the parking

structure.

Bourne's car splits the gap between the parked cars, hits

the base of a low angled wall that slams the back of his

car up and over the wall.

Bourne is pounded as his car jounces onto the wall, a

second later the front end seesaws over the top, the sudden

angle change exposes for an instant the bottom of Bourne's

car, to the shooters.

Several rounds rip through the floorboard and tear past

Bourne's head just before his car drops upside down for 25

feet and slams onto a row of parked cars.

The impact rips Bourne from the seat and slams him hard

against the roof.

Bourne struggles out of the car, knowing he has only a

moment before the armed agents will fire down into his over-

turned car.

The CRI agents race to the spot where Bourne's car

disappeared over the railing and reflexively fire into

Bourne's car but they're too late! Bourne's already out.

He disappears from sight under the covered parking

structure.

As it speeds toward the spaghetti of ramps leading in and

out of Port Authority -- two blocks away.

Bourne looks down, a gun in his hand. He gets to his feet

swiftly and fires the pistol several times into a hooded

figure. The man slumps over.

Bourne stares at what he's done.

Daniels pulls the hood off the figure to show that he is

dead.

Just then Kramer walks through the door.

And now, in real time, Bourne comes out of the flashback.

He stares back at Hirsch....

Bourne lowers the gun.

Just then Bourne spins -- agents arrive at the door.    It's

locked.

The agents fire at the door handle to get it open.

Bourne looks out a window.   Sees the layout of a roof

several stories below. Then he turns and shoots out the

room's mirrored observation window. Bourne dives through

it just as agents rush in and open fire at him.

SERIES OF SHOTS

Bourne races through corridors, loosing the CRI agents.

Bourne runs out onto the roof. Rushes across it to look

over the edge.   It's a straight drop to the FDR -- 12

stories down.

He races to another ledge -- the East River below him. But

he has to clear a 10 foot supporting wall at the base of

the building to hit the water.   He backs up to get a

running leap.

As he does, he turns and sees Paz, who is holding a gun on

him.

Bourne looks at him.

Bourne turns and runs off the roof.

Paz fires into the air...

FOLLOW Bourne as he drops fourteen stories into the

freezing river--

MULTIPLE ANGLES -- Bourne goes into the river...

Bourne in a dead man's float...as his clothes soak through

he begins to sink....

PULL BACK...farther and farther from Bourne's dead still

sinking....as OVERLAPPING, INTERWEAVING VOICE OVERS begin:

Nicky goes to the bar of at a low end tourist bar with

several other customers.   She stands there, eyes fixed on

a TV behind the bar:

PUSH in on the smile that develops on Nicky's face.   As we

CUE the Moby "Extreme Ways" sting---

Bourne's body sinking toward the bottom...when all of a

sudden it comes to life -- arms together, legs kick

powerfully--

And Bourne swims away...

