A terribly appealing little girl, a child of indeterminable age. Pink cheeks, a halo of blonde-

white hair which will darken in time. What sets her apart from other children, however, are a

pair of bright button brown eyes; and it's these eyes that we notice as she peers at Stella

through the hedge.

Stella looks where Carrie is pointing; the top of her bikini has slipped, just barely revealing

her breasts  white against the golden tan. Stella adjusts her suit  not out of any particular

modesty of her own but as a reflex at being stared at so strangely.

And just at that moment, a figure appears in the second-story window in the White house.

Although Stella and we really can't distinctly see through the sun's glare, it's unmistakably

MARGARET WHITE. The moment this big woman sees her daughter with Stella, she lets

out a bloodcurdling scream:

As she sucks in her breath, quivering with fright, looking as if she might faints. She looks

quickly to Stella, then back at the White house, then back to Stella. For the merest flash, she

seems to smile  or is she about to cry?

And then, she's gone  running around the hedge and then up the porch stairs and into the

White house as fast her legs can carry her.

Stands there, riveted. Not knowing what's happened, what to do. It's utterly silent for a

moment.

And then, an incredible CACOPHONY of strange sounds starts coming from the White

house  an unearthly babble as Margaret White screams, rants, and screeches; as Carrie sobs

that she's sorry, that she forgot.

As MRS. HORAN  in an old housedress with the hem falling down in the back  rushes out

to answer to her daughter's call.

The sun glistening brilliantly on it as in the opening shot. Again, it should appear like a huge

glass globe over which we counterpoint one mother/daughter dialogue with the less distinct

babble of another:

Which continues over:

Their eyes riveted on the house  trying, squinting to see through the sun's terrible glare.

At this point, the hysteric babble reaches its crescendo; we should be able to pick out phrases

in this cacophony as Margaret rants at Carrie to go into her closet and pray for forgiveness;

as Carrie's frightened little voice proclaims that she forgot, that she's sorry. And then

suddenly the screaming stops and it's quiet  dead quiet.

As it becomes more distinct, visible. There's a low WHISTLING sound, and then what

appears to be a stone the size of a small pebble lands on the roof.

Another, slightly larger one appears a second or two later. And then another, and another,

and...

squinting, blinking at the pebbles which are coming down like marbles.

as it's pelted with what are now even larger stones  WHISTLING, SCREAMING in the air

like miniature bombs.

Stones from a perfectly blue summer day.

Stones ranging in size from marbles to handballs.

One of them hits a downspout, knocking it onto the lawn. CRASHING, CRACKING

SOUNDS as these pieces of granite tear into the stucco roofing, leaving holes.

The effect is that of a drum being bombarded.

Frozen to the spot: Mrs. Horan with her hands over her ears, her screams blending with the

SOUND of larger and larger stones as they pelt the house and we hear Margaret throughout

screaming:

Stella is clutching Mrs. Horan like a child terrified by the freakiest of summer storms  a

healthy young woman as her figure in the bikini testifies, but a child nonetheless, this

nightmarish moment.

As still larger stones hail from the sky.

And then just as suddenly and inexplicably as they started, they stop.

Mrs. Horan with her hands still over her ears, her daughter standing next to her, transfixed on

the lawn. Once again, it's quiet.

As one final stone  this one the size of a mere pebble  falls from the roof and plops onto

the lawn.

The image grows lighter and lighter. All the color seems to bleach out, turning the screen

once again into an incredible, silently blazing white.

MAIN TITLES.

Now some years later  and no longer glistening so whitely or mysteriously. We see the

front of the house as the door flies open. Carrie, now sixteen or seventeen, appears in the

doorway, carrying school books. As she comes out on the porch, the screen door bangs

behind her.

She is wearing a shapeless, drab dress  much too long, not so much out of style as utterly

without style. What remains in this adolescent girl that links her with the pretty child we

glimpsed in the prologue are those remarkable eyes.

As she comes down the porch stairs, we hear:

Carrie stops, turns to reply into the house.

A moment of hesitation on Carrie's part, a very slight hint of rebellion, but:

Then she turns, walks to the street, gathering pace, quickening.

As Carrie walks down the path from the porch and turns at the sidewalk, in the course of

which she passes by where the Horans used to live. Only the Horans no longer live here. No

one does. It's a vacant lot with a FOR SALE sign out front, with overgrown weeds. From

the looks of them, the house vanished a long time ago.

Carrie is walking to school, the sun shining brightly above her. The farther she gets from her

house, the livelier she seems. We sense that underneath this drab dress is a girl pushing out,

an altogether different creature than her appearance would suggest. And to help persuade us

about this possibility, there is MUSIC.

About five, BOBBY bikes on the other side of one of the streets, keeping pace with Carrie on

a twenty-inch Schwinn with training wheels.

He sets down the paper, and looks at the class.

We will see, among others, Carrie.

We also see TOMMY ROSS  a mid-seventies version of the boy next door. Good-looking,

clean-cut, intelligent, athletic.

He is nodding his head slowly, affecting a kind of puzzlement.

All eyes are on Tommy, who doesn't seem very abashed. In fact, he turns, clasps his hands

over his head, to the delight of his classmates. But you don't get the feeling he is a goof-off;

he is a kid aware of his own popularity and comfortable with it.

The usual hesitation. Then Carrie's hand shoots up.

He appears surprised to see Carrie, ordinarily shy, volunteering.

Steam partially obscures the girls as they whoop and holler and cavort under individual

showers. They banter little barbed pleasantries, bits of sexual information, family plaints,

talk of college  all of which we hear from separate stalls.

One by one the showers are turned off, the girls stepping out, removing pastel bathing caps,

toweling, spraying deodorant, bras hooked, underpants stepped into. Steam hangs in the air.

So do words, running into one another, tumbling, drifting.

`...Tommy says he hated it on me... My sister's husband picks his nose... So does your

sister... too cheap to spend a penny... we'll go after school... I'm going with Billy, we'll

meet you... Friday night...'

We PICK UP Miss Collins as she steps among the girls, spies Carrie still standing under the

shower. She claps her hands together once, smartly.

As Collins departs, and the other girls start to move toward their lockers, Carrie is left alone

in her shower stall. She is soaping herself. In a virtual reverie, she begins at her shoulders,

moving her hands over her breasts in small, regular, virtually erotic circles. Her hand goes

out of frame, below her stomach. Slowly, it emerges back into frame  full of blood. And

just as she and we see this, so do the girls.

Carrie stares at her dumbly.

The other girls are quick to take up the chant. Chris leads them.

One voice chimes in:

Cars are flashing by; they seem to leave blurs of light.

Carrie's tormentors.

Carrie.

for Chris. Her image REMAINS.

A quiet residential street in a lower middle-class neighborhood. Carrie is walking down the

There comes Bobby Erbeter again on his bike, paralleling Carrie (as before)

She keeps on walking, ignoring him.

Keeping pace with Carrie, shouting across the street.

Turning toward him, her face contorted with rage.

The bike wobbles on its training wheels.

And the bike topples over, on top of Bobby, who screams

CLOSE now, featuring her eyes most prominently. Her face is uncertain, confused. What

And we HEAR another SCREAM, more of an angry shriek, and then the strange sight and

As the stones pelt the White bungalow years ago.

The stones pelting the roof.

She is staring across the street at:

Screaming with anger (more than anything else) as he disentangles himself. He stands up,

The boy's defiant chant can be heard as Carrie blinks, wondering. Then she opens her eyes,

The stones.

The light bulb exploding.

The ashtray falling.

We hear:

A faint smile, partly of wonder, partly of a strange kind of joy. She knows.

mother, good wife. She is preparing dinner; in her line of sight, a television game show

glitters.

DOORBELL

Eleanor frowns momentarily, leaves the kitchen.

Through the middleclass, rather tasteful home, to the front door.

Eleanor opens the door.

sack, which we will discover is bulging with religious tracts.

Margaret White is not a welcome visitor, but Eleanor Snell is a polite lady.

and drags herself back into the living room.

Eleanor shifts from foot to foot while Margaret writes out the receipt, gives it to her.

Sue is coming toward the door. She passes Margaret with a quick (inaudible) greeting and

As Eleanor nods and closes the door.

Sue's face betrays relief, but Eleanor notices nothing.

And then the telephone RINGS  only to stop as Margaret picks up the receiver. It's just as

Carrie dreaded  it's the school  and she stands by the door, trying desperately to overhear

Margaret's muffled voice. And then Margaret hangs up, and in a deadly tone of voice  not

yelling but enunciation with a terrible clarity  she calls up the stairs:

And defeated, Carrie braces herself and goes down the:

As she hurries down toward her mother and into:

Where Margaret is standing by the stove, her back to her in stony silence.

No response. The teakettle is just beginning to boil over the gas burner, and in this altogether

strange little kitchen  a veritable arsenal of lace-tatted religious art  Margaret is a rock.

Carrie sits down at the kitchen table, bursting with shame and the need to talk. Yet she

recognizes her mother's wall of silence, knowing she won't speak until she's ready. They've

been through this dance a thousand times. Finally, Carrie breaks.

Point one and some grim satisfaction. Yet she doesn't respond immediately. Then she turns

from the stove.

Margaret walks over to the table and sits next to Carrie. She puts on rimless glasses, then

opens the Bible and starts to read with one of those strange Kathryn Kuhlman looks on her

face:

She pushes the Bible at Carrie, her finger on the place.

She propels Carrie into the closet, slams the door behind her. Margaret's voice continues,

overlapping onto:

Very much the little girl now as she sinks to the floor of the closet  crying, disheveled,

beaten. The closet is just what every child ever dreaded about the night.

Looking down at Carrie.

She looks away  and inwards. With her, we see:

Falling on the shower floor.

Surrounding Carrie, jeering her, bombarding her.

Impassive, impersonal, unconcerned  or so it seems.

In the forefront of the pack.

As the girls would see her, cowering, the bloody napkins pelting her.

The blood seems to be streaming down his face; it moves.

Tears are streaming down her face. She whispers:

MOVING IN SLOWLY on Tommy Ross' 1963 Ford, which is parked in the shadows on The

Hill (something of a ridge which overlooks the town and is dedicated to Eros by high school

students and occasional graduates). The MUSIC swells as we MOVE IN. And finally, we

PEER into the car, where we see:

Sue and Tommy have finished making love in the back seat. They are both putting their

clothes in order, silently, slowly.

Then they climb into the front seat. Sue takes out a cigarette. Tommy lights it with the

dashboard lighter. They say nothing as Sue smokes for a few moments. Then Tommy looks

at her closely.

She turns away.

He puts his arm around her clumsily.

Margaret is at the sewing machine. She is either listening to a reasonable facsimile of

Kathryn Kuhlman preaching on the radio, or instead, to an old Victrola which plays

Tennessee Ernie Ford's "Let the Lower Lights Be Burning." A Black Forest cuckoo clock,

providing a sense of lapsed time.

Suddenly the treadle on the sewing machine depresses itself. The needle begins to dip up and

down; the bobbin whirs and jerks.

Margaret turns around to see:

She is standing in the entrance of the living room. Her demeanor seems more peaceful, calm,

almost too calm.

A touch of fear in her eyes. But:

She crosses over to her mother, kisses her lightly on the (unmoving) head.

Carrie goes to the stairs.

With Carrie.

Carrie goes into her room.

Carrie turns on a light. She undresses slowly, wearily. And then she stops and looks at

herself in the mirror. A close, tired inspection. Her eyes seem hollow, haunted. Carrie

doesn't like what she sees; she doesn't like herself.

Flex. Slowly cracks appear in the mirror, spiderwebs.

Flex. The mirror cracks wider.

And flex: the mirror shatters, crashes to the dresser in pieces, loudly; some of the pieces fall

on the floor.

A moment of utter panic  now what?

As Margaret strides up them, past the landing, and tries the knob on Carrie's door. It's

locked. She rattles the knob. But to no avail. Then:

Another beat; then:

Margaret tries the knob again, and it is, indeed, open.

Where Carrie is kneeling by her bed, now in her flannel nightgown, praying.

Margaret slowly opens the door to Carrie's room and enters. Light filters in from the street.

Carrie is lying in bed, motionless, asleep.

Margaret crosses the room quietly. She leans over the bed. On the table next to it is the

glow-in-the-dark statue  not in its usual place on the dresser. Carrie's face, in the soft light,

seems very innocent.

No answer.

Margaret bends over Carrie. And with surprising tenderness, she kisses Carrie's forehead.

The she straightens up quickly, as though she has violated herself, and leaves the room.

Carrie opens her eyes. She pulls a book out from under the covers; then she stares at the

Madonna-child figurine, it begins to glow brighter and brighter, illuminating the room. It's

bright enough to read by now, and we leave Carrie expanding her education and:

As Carrie examines a shelf of books with titles like "Cosmic Consciousness" and R.D.

Ogilve's "Hidden Powers of the Mind." She decides on the latter just as a voice startles her:

She stares at him and quickly covers the binding of the book with her hand, covering the title.

He looks as startled as she does.

As Collins tidies up after one of the classes  throwing towels into huge cans, etc. Only to

hear a mewing, whimpering sound and come upon Carrie who's huddled in one of the dark

corners of the room, crying. It's almost as if she created her own closet of space.

We PULL BACK to see the gym. The entire back wall has been devoted to a giant mural of

stars and planets  it seems the prom is to have a celestial theme, and the gymnasium is in the

process of being hung with a great deal of crepe paper, moons, etc.

as thick as thieves, off in the corner, whispering.

Sue nods  she knew it, now she hears it.

CUTTING between the final arrangements for the prom itself and Carrie's preparations as the

night approaches. The emphasis is on these two paralleling elements, although this montage

scored throughout with happier and happier MUSIC  will also feature some of our lesser

characters.

Among other things, we will see:

It is now the night of the Prom  just minutes before it officially begins, we end this montage

and:

Carrie sits in front of that same mirror, but this time, there's a different attitude. And a

different girl, which pleases her. She looks different, very different, from before. She's

dressed in her lush red crushed velvet prom dress, but the SHOT is ANGLED in such a way

that we don't see it. In any case, it is not prim. She is wearing some makeup. She looks...

well, there has been a transformation.

In the background, the door is opened by Margaret.

Margaret advances into the room.

Carrie opens a florist box and takes out a lovely corsage of tiny tea roses.

Carrie's voice is calm; nothing, not even Margaret, will spoil tonight, and ever so slightly, this

scene  and all that follow for a considerable period of time  has an edge of unreality to it.

It's all been diffused a bit  a fairy tale through Carrie's eyes. What would look bad or tacky

looks acceptable; what looked good before now looks spectacular.

Flex.

Margaret is pushed back on the bed. Horrified, she rises again.

Flex.

Margaret is thrust back on the bed.

The words stop. But Margaret's eyes are fixed on Carrie, as Carrie leans toward her. Carrie's

voice is soft and compassionate.

The BUZZER downstairs sounds. Carrie goes to her window and sees:

at the front door, the overhead light shining on his hair, making it glisten. He looks very

handsome.

She goes back to the bed and picks up her wrap; then, to Margaret:

The BUZZER downstairs sounds again.

And she's gone, down the

Carrie who opens the door.

Well, we know he's beautiful. And he's looking at Carrie. He didn't know:

He didn't know she could be beautiful. And she is.

He reaches out his hand.

Carrie takes his hand.

Hand in hand, Carrie and Tommy walk down the path toward his car.

They are observed by:

at the window of Carrie's room.

Margaret leaves the window as we HEAR Tommy's car drive off.

She goes out of the room.

The source of the salutation and Tommy's best friend. He bounds INTO FRAME, wearing a

T-shirt with a painted black tie under his dinner jacket. His girlfriend, Frieda Jason, tags

behind.

The two boys immediately go into a mock fight. Frieda comes up to Carrie.

Carrie smiles back at her nervously; there's an awkward silence.

Carrie hesitates; realizes Frieda is quite sincere.

Frieda laughs; so does Carrie, and the tension eases up. Behind them, Tommy keeps one eye

on Carrie. He shrugs  it's working, goddammit  and he stuffs his hands into his dinner

jacket.

Carrie and Frieda, Tommy and George right behind them, head for their tables.

He takes her arm, turns her toward the dance floor.

He has his arms around her and half-spins, half tugs her out onto the floor. He is a young man

of considerable confidence  the best part of his popularity  and it's a contagious trait.

Gradually, Carrie gets caught up in the slow dancing, begins to follow him less and less

awkwardly, begins to get less and less self-conscious, and, in short, starts to glide into her

freedom.

Tommy and Carrie dance into this corner; Carrie is a bit breathless and very happy. For some

moments, Tommy keeps his arms around Carrie, looking at her. And then he leans forward,

about to kiss her, impulsively. And impulsively and instinctively, she draws back. And is

immediately embarrassed.

She laughs aloud  the sound of her own laughter is so foreign to her that she claps a hand

over her mouth, at her own daring. She takes the pencil and quickly circles their names  so

quickly that the pencil breaks, bringing a small drop of blood to her finger. She gasps.

as Sue  hardly in formal attire  stares through the same small window in the gym door that

Carrie stared through earlier  she stares inside as:

The ballots are being counted, Morton and Fish helping Ernest separate them into piles. We

ought to notice either De Lois or Trennant hanging around the voting tables  perhaps Norma

Watson as well.

Carrie is holding Tommy's hand tightly  too tightly.

Watching her intently, his mouth slightly open...

Vainly trying to speak over the APPLAUSE.

Tommy still staring at her.

Slowly looking up, seeing Tommy.

Just exactly where they are isn't clear yet, nor should it be. But we do hear the Prom noises.

334 INT. KITCHEN

335 EXT. WHITE HOUSE  NIGHT

336 INT. WHITE HOUSE  NIGHT

337 EXT. WHITE HOUSE  NIGHT

338 WHITE HOUSE  SUE'S POV

339 SUE

340 THE WHITE HOUSE

