FADE IN:

A SPECK OF DUST

Grains of sand dance in the wind.  As we glide over a VAST

DESERT, the speck of dust becomes a HORSE AND RIDER.

CATHERINE YOUNG straddles the beautiful black animal, her

mesmerizing eyes scanning the horizon.  A curious breeze

blows across her exquisite face and she drinks it in, as if

the wind itself were telling something to her...

Catherine sees a FLICKERING LIGHT in the sand.  She pulls the

reins and the horse stops moments before the dune drops into

nothingness.  She dismounts, affectionately scratches the

horse's neck, and follows the LIGHT.  When she looks over her

shoulder, the Arabian is now a child's WOODEN HOBBY HORSE.

Not surprised, Catherine smiles and walks down a dune, sand

sliding beneath her feet...

She finds herself in a valley of dead trees whose decayed,

gnarled limbs appear to form hands.  The light dances across

her face.  She shades her eyes and pinpoints the source...

A SMALL MIRROR reflecting rays of bright sun, housed within a

locket and chain.  It's held by EDWARD, a haunted-looking boy

of seven with a precocious grin and piercing eyes.  He sits

on a fallen tree trunk, patiently waiting for her arrival.

He's a shy child, yet comfortable with Catherine.

Edward smiles, delighted he made her happy.

The boy frowns.

A devilish glint in his eye, Edward redirects the mirror.

Catherine follows the flicker to a TOY BOAT in the sand.

Edward shines light in her eyes, momentarily blinding her,

then snaps the locket shut.  When her vision clears,

Catherine sees a GIANT SHIP perched among the dunes.  A craft

weighing hundreds of tons just sitting there in the desert.

She walks toward it, but Edward doesn't follow.

She extends her hand, but he adamantly shakes his head no.

Undaunted, she... finds herself standing on the DECK.

She opens a rusted iron DOOR.  It makes an HORRIFIC

SCREECHING SOUND.  Similar to metal-on-metal, but more

piercing, more pained.  As if made by a living thing.

The boy's FACE CONTORTS, turning into something half-human,

half-animal.  A monster.  Mocky-Lock.  He SCREECHES, trying

to frighten Catherine, but she cocks her head...

The creature sticks its tongue out and DIVES.

But it's too late!  Edward/Mocky Lock slithers into the sand

and disappears.  Resigning herself to a failure, she opens

the palm of her left hand, revealing a SMALL BUMP in the

flesh between thumb and forefinger.  She presses hard and...

PICTURE AND SOUND DISTORT AND CHANGE

INT. LABORATORY - DAY

We are looking at a large SCREEN showing an electronically

generated three-dimensional view of a human brain featuring

color-coded neurological activity.  In a specific section of

the image, cells flash from yellow to red...

PULL BACK TO REVEAL HENRY WEST surrounded by computers,

monitors, electronics, and keyboards.  DR. MIRIAM KENT stands

before a peculiar diagnostic machine scrutinizing data and

images.  Both wear garb favored by surgeons or microchip

assemblers.  The impressive, weird computer system HUMS as it

shifts programs, the unusual brain image changing colors.

THROUGH A LARGE WINDOW, we see into an ADJOINING ROOM within

which a HUMAN FIGURE hangs suspended in mid-air by a series

of cables designed to simulate flotation.

AT THE CONSOLE, Miriam uses a pen to hit specific areas of

the touch-sensitive screen, changing the complex CHEMICAL

SYMBOLS displayed there.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, a series of pharmaceuticals are

injected into an intravenous tube feeding the sleeve/arm of

the figure.  A featherweight cloth MASK electronically rises,

revealing the sleeping face of Catherine.

AT THE CONSOLE, Miriam hits a button and speaks into an

intercom microphone.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, there is no reaction from Catherine.

Catherine's eyes open.

IN THE CONTROL ROOM, Henry hits a switch and Catherine is

lowered to the pedestal.  Miriam checks Monitors displaying

Catherine's vital signs and continuing what must be a

routine, presses numbers on a keypad to open the PRESSURIZED

AIRTIGHT DOOR separating the two areas.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, lights come on and Miriam eases

Catherine out of the apparatus.  She checks her pupil

dilation, pulse, throat, and reflexes.  She pokes and prods

with a familiarity that would seem rude to an outside

observer, but is nothing to them.  Getting to her feet, we

see that Catherine's BODYSUIT is made of an unusual dark

fabric almost liquid in consistency.

AT THE CONSOLE, Henry moves to another section and for the

first time, we see there are two elaborate neural monitors.

And the "brain" pictured here is smaller.  Younger...

REVEAL A SECOND FIGURE suspended from the ceiling in the

PROCEDURE ROOM.  A SMALL BOY is lowered to the pedestal and

as Miriam records data, Catherine removes the child's "mask,"

displaying the haunted face of Edward.  Clearly, the boy is

in some kind of catatonic state.

Henry communicates with them via the intercom.

Catherine looks annoyed - How could he forget?

Catherine detaches the cables and eases Edward's frail body

into a waiting wheelchair.  Miriam takes a penlight and

examines the boy's eyes... An emotionless void, oddly

beautiful.

Making certain the child is comfortable, Catherine covers him

with a blanket, rests a teddy bear on his lap, and pushes him

into the CONTROL ROOM, accompanied by Miriam.  Henry types in

a command and moves to join them.

A BUZZER sounds and ANOTHER DOOR HISSES OPEN... A constantly

fretting administrator, BARRY COOPERMAN, is waiting for them

in the corridor.

We can see it in Catherine's face - this isn't good news.

EXT. CAMPBELL CENTER - DAY

Situated in a corporate/industrial area north of San Diego,

California, a series of well-secured buildings form a mini

compound.  A sign near the gate reads CAMPBELL CENTER - A

DIVISION OF SUNERSET INDUSTRIES.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - EDWARD'S ROOM - DAY

Although this is a hospital room filled with medical

equipment, its sterility has been camouflaged with toys,

posters, photographs, and drawings to make it more "homey."

(Some hint at aspects of Edward's fantasy world).  Every

comfort has been provided and no expense spared.

Henry, Miriam, and Catherine, now wearing funky/casual

clothes under a lab coat, stand opposite Cooperman.  Sitting

on the bed with Edward is ELLA BAINES, an elegantly dressed

woman in her mid-40's.  There is a soulfulness to her, but

the husband, LUCIEN BAINES, 60's, possesses the icy demeanor

of a corporate tycoon.  One might write him off as cold, but

we sense a genuine love for his wife and child.  Ella smiles

and caresses Edward's hair.

Seeing an unfunded future, Henry's ready to disassociate

himself from Miriam and Catherine...

Catherine is hurt and vulnerable due to exhaustion and the

intensity of her experience with Edward, but feels she must

defend herself.

Introspective and solemn-eyed, Lucien takes a moment, then:

OFF CATHERINE'S FACE...

INT. WHITE ROOM - DAY

At first, we're not sure where we are or what's happening.

It's too bright, the space confining.  As our eyes adjust, we

seem to be in a bathroom or shower stall.  We HEAR a WOMAN

CRYING and the camera finds ANNE VICKSEY.  Dark circles

beneath eyes red and puffy from crying.  Hair wet and ratted.

Sweater and pants damp and stained.  Barefoot, she shivers

from cold and fear...

PULL BACK to show more of her surroundings.  The white-tiled

10' x 8' room features a SHOWER HEAD, TOILET, and a push

button SPIGOT for drinking water.  Two walls are SOLID, the

other two MIRRORED, the glass covered by thick clear plastic.

The floor is littered with empty food wrappers - candy bars,

juice boxes.  In the center of the floor is a DRAIN and above

her, on the ceiling, a FLUORESCENT LAMP, also encased in

clear plastic.

There is no door.

A mechanism CLICKS. Then a RUMBLING... Anne seems to know

what's coming.  She presses against the wall, removes her

arms from the sleeves of the sweater, hunches down, and

raises the garment over her head, forming a tent.

WATER ERUPTS from the shower head.  There is no steam, so

this water must be cold.  Shaking, Anne whispers a count to

herself - "One-one thousand, two-one thousand, three..." and

so on.  The spray hits everything in the room - mirror,

toilet, floor - and a food wrapper drifts toward the drain.

She peeks up from the tent, but the water has not stopped,

and that isn't what she expected.  We hear a soft SUCKING

NOISE and a CLICK.  The wrapper rises on a puddle of water.

Anne POUNDS her fist on the wall.

A puddle forms around her feet and she realizes the drain has

somehow been sealed shut.  Her panic intensifies as we hear

another CLICK and the water pressure increases.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY - DAY

In the darkened procedure room, Miriam finds Catherine

standing between the two suspension devices, alone.

Catherine turns, nods, and tries to smile.  Has she been

crying?  Miriam steps further into the room.

Catherine nods.

Catherine laughs.  Exactly what Miriam wanted.

Catherine halfheartedly nods, but her mind is elsewhere,

focused on the two apparatuses.

Miriam knows what this is about.

Ever the doctor, Miriam finds herself surreptitiously

examining Catherine's eyes, flesh tone, a slight trembling in

her fingertips.

Miriam reaches for Catherine's wrist and takes her pulse.

As Miriam examines her, Catherine continues:

Miriam takes a penlight and examines Catherine's eyes.

Catherine nods.

Catherine shakes her head no.  Miriam shuts off the penlight

and looks at Catherine with professional and personal

concern.

She taps Catherine's head.

Miriam gathers her belongings.

Miriam exits, but Catherine remains, still curious what could

happen if things were reversed.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - HALLWAY - DAY

The corridors are dark and most everyone has gone home.  At

the NURSES STATION, a staff member observes the child on a

closed-circuit monitor.  Further down the hall, Miriam and

Henry exit.  Wearing a (chic) thrift store coat and lugging a

worn book bag, Catherine stands outside Edward's room,

watching him sleep.

EXT. RURAL HIGHWAY - DAY

A GREEN FORD PICK-UP TRUCK cruises down this deserted stretch

of two-lane blacktop, the driver carefully maintaining the

speed limit.  He signals and exits...

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD - DAY

The truck rumbles along a stretch of bumpy, unpaved road.

The area is desolate, depressing, and deserted.  It feels

like no one's been anywhere near here for years.  The pick-up

stops at a RUSTED GATE and the DRIVER, a tall, lean, sinewy

fellow undoes a combination lock-and-chain.  We do not yet

see his face.

EXT. ABANDONED FARM HOUSE - DAY

The truck parks inside a charred barn, now hidden from view,

and the driver steps out, followed by his DOG.

A magnificent WHITE GERMAN SHEPHERD.  We notice a GLINT in

its BLUE EYES - the animal's an albino.  The driver points

and whistles.  Well-trained, the Shepard sprints to the gate

and waits, keeping a watchful eye on the road.

INT. THE CELL - OBSERVATION ROOM - DAY

From the outside, a passerby would never know this sanctuary

existed.  Within the foundation of a farm building never

completed, we find a small room in the center of a much

larger space.  The cell.  We hear the WHIR of ELECTRONIC

EQUIPMENT and notice VIDEO CAMERAS mounted on tripods pointed

at the two-way glass.  We follow CABLES to a massive VIDEO

RECORDER - the type used in surveillance, able to record for

days without maintenance, and an elaborate TIMING DEVICE

connected to a series of VALVES and SWITCHES.

As if in a beatific trance, the driver moves to the window

and gently rests his palm on the glass.  ANNE MOVES!  Arms

flailing, mouth gasping, eyes filled with dread.  The last

spark of life... The driver JUMPS, startled and frightened.

Almost shamefully, he turns and hides, unable to look at her.

Suddenly, his body tenses and writhes, as if seized by

torturous pain.  He opens his mouth in a silent scream.

And then, quickly as it came, the pain subsides.  Hidden in

shadow, he breathes deeply, regaining self-control.  He

waits, then moves back to the glass.  Anne's dead face floats

past him.  Almost angelic.  He watches her and leans his head

against the window, closer.  And the driver catches his own

reflection in the mirror.

Meet CARL STARGHER.

EXT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Small and isolated, the nearest neighbor a block away.

INT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The place is a mess.  Computer print-outs, dirty dishes,

unopened mail, videotapes, and notepads cover tables, chairs

and floor.  On the crammed bookshelves, psychology texts sit

next to volumes on mythology, religion, and the occult.

Totems, figurines and artifacts (Central and South American

in origin) adorn the walls and tables.

As Portishead plays on the stereo, we find Catherine

suffering from insomnia, wearing goofy-yet-hip eyeglasses,

sweatpants and a UCSD T-shirt, sharing a late-night snack

with her pet CAT.  She shuts the refrigerator door and we

linger on an odd POSTCARD taped to the surface.  A kitschy

postcard of a warrior/goddess.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

We MOVE out of shadow, toward a bright focused light,

following the albino German Shepherd - VALENTINE - as it

enters a VAST SUBTERRANEAN ROOM.  Most of the walls have been

knocked down, leaving only thick support posts.  Valentine

finds Stargher in a DUGOUT PIT - about five feet deeper than

the rest of the room - polishing a stainless steel table.  A

bright tungsten work light hangs above, and near it is the

chain, cables and hooks of a customized MECHANICAL HOIST.

The dog picks up an unpleasant scent and follows it to a far

corner where there are empty jugs of BLEACH sitting next to a

long, deep cast iron TUB.  Stargher WHISTLES and Valentine

obediently retreats to a KENNEL CAGE.  Stargher gives him a

chew toy and locks the dog inside before moving to the tub.

Soaking in the bleach is the nude corpse of Anne Vicksey.

The interior of the tub is glazed with gleaming porcelain and

the whiteness of her flesh makes it appear as though she is

floating in nothingness, but what hypnotizes and appalls are

her eyes.  Wide open, transformed by the chlorine into

something ghostly, they are unforgettable.

As the bleach gurgles down the drain, Stargher lifts Anne

from the tub and carries her to the table.  He places her

face up and dries her with a clean white towel.  He moves her

limbs, lips, hips, and hands into desired positions then

retreats into shadow.  In the harsh light, against the shiny

table, the bleached body has the quality of an apparition and

we almost expect her to move...

We HEAR Stargher remove his clothes and he steps into the

pool of light.  Nude, we see that his lean, muscular frame is

laced with some rough tatoos.  When he turns his back to us,

we find EIGHT METAL RINGS, thick and strong, PIERCED through

his flesh.  Two columns of four on either side of the spine,

running from shoulder blade to just below the waist.  What in

God's name are they for?

Stargher shuts off the work light and moves to an area where

he keeps TELEVISION MONITORS and VCRs.  He inserts a

videocassette taken from the surveillance deck and watches

the screen.

In BLACK AND WHITE, we see Anne awaken in the cell.  Her

first moments inside.  Disoriented, terrified, trapped, she

examines her surroundings.

Stargher is mesmerized by her fear.  Fast-forwarding to her

death, he presses a remote and we get SOUND.  Anne screaming,

begging for her life.  Aroused, stimulated, Stargher drinks

it in like a symphony.  Valentine cowers in the back of his

cage, hating this.

INT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lying on her bed (a waterbed), Catherine sleepily stares at

the ceiling, rolls onto her side, and feels herself drawn

into the comforter.  The folds of the fabric become ripples.

Ripples become dunes.

EXT. EDWARD'S WORLD - DAY

And we find ourselves in the DESERT of EDWARD'S WORLD.

We fly over dunes and come up behind Catherine as she

struggles through waves of sand.  The tree trunk is up ahead

and we glimpse someone hiding inside.

Catherine reaches.  MOCKEY-LOCK ERUPTS FROM WITHIN THE TREE

TRUNK!  SNARLING!  Catherine retreats, silently screaming.

INT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAWN

IN HER OWN BED, Catherine's eyes are open.  In sharp contrast

to a typical reaction to a nightmare, she remains calm.  No

sweaty face, no gasp, no reaction at all, really.  She might

as well have been dreaming of puppy dogs.  Wide awake, her

eyes return their gaze to the ceiling.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

CHAINS attached to bizarre HOOKS dangle from the ceiling.

Admiring Anne's body, Stargher links the hooks to the rings

in his back.  He presses a remote unit and up in the rafters,

a series of GEARS click into motion.  The sound is torturous

as the mechanical hoist LIFTS Stargher off the ground,

pulling at the rings, strips of flesh rising.  Stargher

grimaces, but clearly he wants the pain, needs it.  As the

hoist clicks into another gear, it carries Stargher over the

table until his body is perfectly positioned above Anne's.

In the flickering weird light of the television screen,

Stargher resembles something from the twisted imagination of

William Blake - a levitating demon ready to debauch an

innocent angel.  With his free hand, he touches himself,

chains clinking and swaying.

EXT. RIVER BANK - DAY

A railroad bridge and highway span an almost-bone-dry creek

bed.  Gathered beneath the overpass are the POLICE, CORONER,

CRIMINIALISTS, AND A LOCAL FBI.  A SEDAN travels down a

service road and stops nearby.  TWO MEN exit, identify

themselves as FBI and move to the crime scene.

Special Agent GORDON RAMSEY is well-groomed, prides himself

on professionalism, and follows the Bureau party line.

Special Agent PETER NOVAK is rough around the edges,

introspective, and intense.  A loner who marches to the tune

of a peculiar drummer, he's unconventionally handsome with

probing eyes.  He moves slowly, observing the scene - the

world, for that matter - from a unique perspective.

As Ramsey finds the FBI's local liaison - AGENT COLE - Novak

oblivious to the people around him, touches dirt, smells the

air, and examines road, river, bridge and sky.

Cole nods at a visibly shaken WORKMAN seated in a patrol car.

Novak sees a FEMALE BODY wrapped in plastic and bound by

wire.  Supervising the examination of the woman is FBI

PATHOLOGIST DR. THEODORE "TEDDY" LEE, a polite, dapper

southern gentleman.

Teddy gives Novak a friendly, respectful salute - "My

pleasure."  Novak dons gloves, nods to an FBI PHOTOGRAPHER

and assists Teddy Lee in snipping wire and peeling back thick

clear plastic.  As the photographer reacts to a strong smell,

Teddy comments.

As the man snaps pictures, Ramsey and Cole join them.  Sadly,

Novak recognizes the face.

We recognize her, too.

He and Teddy expose the bleached flesh of her torso, neither

man surprised.  Coldly thorough, Novak finds another of the

killer's tell-tale signs.

FLASH! Photos are taken.

Novak looks into the dead white eyes of Anne Vicksey, trying

to imagine the horrors she beheld.  He moves to the creek and

sees only a few inches of water.  His eyes move from the drop

site to the highway above.

FLASH!  We're up there now, ON THE OVERPASS, with the

photographer and Novak, examining TIRE TRACKS in the soft

shoulder.  Novak peers over the edge at the crime scene,

steps back, and focuses on the highway - imagining the

killer's truck as it disappeared into the night.

EXT. OFFICE PLAZA - DAY

fiancee, JOHN TRACY.  They talk, laugh and kiss, not a care

in the world.

INT. PICK-UP TRUCK - ACROSS THE STREET - DAY

As TALK RADIO plays, Carl Stargher watches them, specifically

Julia, his eyes never off her for too long as his hands work

on something banal but unseen.

The voice on the radio becomes DISTORTED as we hear it

through Stargher's ears...

The host's voice fades into a guttural, monstrous groan.

He opens his eyes and watches John kiss Julia goodbye as she

returns to work.  Stargher looks down and we see what he's

been working on - A TOY DOLL.  Female.  Stripped of its

clothes, a single metal ring stuck through its plastic neck.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

His lunch finished, Ramsey is on a cell-phone talking to his

wife.  Chain-drinking coffee, Novak scrutinizes photos of the

tire tracks.

Novak checks his watch and the street.  Clearly waiting for

someone or something.

Ramsey snaps shut the cell-phone.

Novak is oblivious, pouring over tire-related info.

He waits.  Novak obliges:

Novak is distracted by Teddy Lee entering the diner.

Ramsey assesses the exhausted, lonely, intense man sitting

across from him.

Much to Novak's appreciation, Teddy Lee's arrival provides an

escape from answering the question.

He gives them copies of the AUTOPSY REPORT and FORENSIC

ANALYSIS of Anne Marie Vicksey.  The WAITRESS sees Teddy,

approaches, and offers a menu.

She nods and moves to the kitchen.  Novak and Ramsey flip

through the documents.

Novak finds something in the report that catches him by

surprise.  He double-checks and shows the item to Teddy.

Ramsey checks his copy.

INT. FORENSIC LABORATORY - DAY

A MONITOR shows a SINGLE HAIR under a video microscope.

Teddy Lee plays with the dials and gets a spectral view.

Novak and Ramsey stand over his shoulder.

Teddy moves aside and takes another bite of his lunch

(chicken fried steak now carry-out).

INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Exiting an elevator, Julia heads for her little Toyota.

Smart girl that she is, her eyes scan the area and her

fingers hold a can of mace.

INT. TOYOTA - NIGHT

Julia climbs in, checks her mirror and backs up.  WHAM!  Did

she hit something??  She brakes, puts the car in park, and

checks her sideview mirror.

Reflected there is a WOUNDED DOG.  A white German Shepherd.

She rolls down her window and can hear the poor thing

whimpering.

INT. PARKING GARAGE - NIGHT

Julia exits her car and kneels next to Valentine, who appears

to be in terrible pain.

STARGHER'S HANDS COME AT HER FROM BEHIND!  One grabs her hair

and the other covers her face with a chloroform-soaked towel.

He presses so hard, she cannot scream, cannot move.  After a

brief struggle, he SHOVES her into her car and holds her

until she passes out.  Stargher pushes Julia into the

passenger seat and starts the car.  Pulls a dog treat from

his pocket and WHISTLES.  The Shepherd instantly perks up.

Perfectly healthy.  And jumps into the car.

INT. RIVERSIDE COUNTY SHERIFF'S STATION - DAY

In a BRIEFING ROOM we find Teddy Lee, Ramsey, Cole and local

cops.  All in need of caffeine.  They complain, gossip, and

shoot the shit.  Resembling a demanding professor, Novak

enters and through presence alone, lacking any self

consciousness about his dishevelled appearance, takes control

of the room by holding up a PHOTOGRAPH of a young woman.

The chatter dies.

Every person is solemn and focused.

He's hooked them.  The victims, these women, now mean

something to them.  With great effect, he holds up grisly

post-mortem photos.

Everyone knows this is a real clue and awareness is

heightened.  Ramsey chimes in.

Novak shows them a picture of a WHITE GERMAN SHEPHERD taken

from a resource on the Internet.

Ramsey holds up a thick list.

The list is long and a few of the cops GROAN.  Novak silences

them with a fierce look that says, "I will not rest until

this man is found and neither should you."

A DESK SEARGENT enters the room and hands a FAX to Ramsey.

Novak is curious about it, but continues.

Gravely concerned, Ramsey moves across the room.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - BATHROOM - DAY

Stargher, the awful PAIN eating away at his skull.  He

searches the medicine chest.

The VOICE echoing inside his skull.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Struggling to stay on his feet, he moves to the KITCHEN.

Valentine paces nervously, whimpering concern.  Stargher

reaches for a bottle of vodka but falls to the floor.

Valentine BARKS, but gets no reaction from master.  We MOVE

IN on Stargher's unblinking eyes.

INT. THE CELL - DAY

Julia Hickson finds the snack foods, drinking spigot, toilet,

shower, and drain.  Her bare feet try to adjust to the tile

floor, but it's fucking cold.  She glimpses herself in the

mirror and is startled by what she sees - a terrified girl.

INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY

A TAN SEDAN sits in the driveway of this modest middle-class

home.  A VENTURA COUNTY SHERIFF'S CAR sits nearby, a deputy

keeping watch.

INT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY

A distraught middle-aged couple, MR. AND MRS. HICKSON, sit on

the couch of their living room.  FAMILY PHOTOS show them with

Julia, whose fiancee, John, does his best to comfort the

mother.  Novak and Ramsey have the unfortunate task of

interviewing them about their daughter's disappearance.

Novak hasn't said much.  Instead, he looks at something in

his hands - a plastic evidence bag containing the TOY DOLL.

Novak hides the doll.

Ramsey's cell-phone rings and he excuses himself to a corner

of the room, leaving Novak alone to deal with this

uncomfortable, sad situation, no one saying a word until an

emotionally shattered Mrs. Hickson, fingering a rosary, feels

compelled to tell him.

EXT. SMALL AIRPORT - DAY

Ramsey and Novak exit a small jet and are met by FBI Agent

STOCKWELL.

They nod and he directs them to a waiting GMC SUBURBAN.

INT. GMC SUBURBAN - DAY

Stockwell is behind the wheel, racing down the highway.

Ramsey's in the passenger seat, Novak in back.  Shotguns and

body armor line the cargo area.  Novak's eyes target the FAX,

a copy of Stargher's license and registration, and the grainy

dot-matrix image of the suspect's face.  And Novak knows he's

found him.

EXT. STARGHER HOUSE/NEIGHBORHOOD - DAY

A sparsely populated lower-middle class neighborhood.  A half

dozen plain houses at the end of a cul-de-sac.  Bare trees.

Brown lawns.  Crows in the air.

The house furthest from the main road has a white Ford F250

pick-up in the driveway.  Green trim.

THE SUBURBAN, hidden from Stargher's house, four-wheels it

through a prairie and stops outside the backyard of a

PRESCHOOL, where two more Suburbans and a van already wait.

INT. PRESCHOOL - DAY

Stockwell introduces Ramsey and Novak to BROCK, leader of the

FBI Tactical Unit, a calm, confident ex-Marine wearing a

black uniform and body armor.

Novak and Ramsey join him at the shaded window to observe

Stargher's house.  Children's drawings fill the wall.  As

Brock explains, Novak checks with binoculars.

Novak is careful with his answer.

EXT. STARGHER HOUSE - DAY

Quiet.  Calm.  And then we catch a glimpse of a FIGURE

advancing, using any cover he can, until he is right outside

the house.  The sneaky SWAT team member, ERICSON, whispers

into his throat mic.

Ericson maneuvers his way to the kitchen window and uses a

MIRROR to sneak a peek.  In the REFLECTION we see a

motionless man lying on the floor.

Ericson chances a quick visual check and pops his head up

before reporting.

INT. PRESCHOOL - DAY

Brock looks to Novak, urgency and tension mounting.  Novak

knows how much is riding on this specific moment.  All the

various outcomes.  And decides.

EXT. STARGHER HOUSE - DAY

The SWAT TEAM SWARMS towards the house.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - DAY

ERICSON KICKS IN THE BACK DOOR.  GUN READY!

He and THREE OTHERS rush inside!

BAM!  FOUR MEN KICK in and proceed through the FRONT DOOR!

An odd quiet is all they encounter.  IN THE BACK, Ericson

moves through a LAUNDRY ROOM and finds VALENTINE hiding

behind a pile of dirty clothes, frightened by these masked

figures in black.

He points for someone to secure the animal and MOVES into the

KITCHEN, aiming his gun at the man on the floor, finally

getting a look at his face.

No problem there.  Stargher appears lifeless.  As various

SWAT team members secure the house, Ericson removes his mask

and CUFFS Stargher, startled at the sight of the horrible

RINGS piercing his back.

EXT. PRESCHOOL/STARGHER'S HOUSE - DAY

As an AMBULANCE emerges from a hiding place behind another

garage, we FOLLOW NOVAK and RAMSEY as they run from the

preschool into the house.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE

As a K-9 UNIT secures Valentine, Novak storms into the

kitchen, checks Stargher for a pulse and barks at SWAT>

Ramsey pushes through and Novak informs him.

EXT. STARGHER HOUSE - DAY

FBI AGENTS and local police cordon off the area.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Valentine is muzzled and led away as the PARAMEDICS load

Stargher onto a stretcher.  Agent Stockwell turns to a

worried Novak.

Stockwell nods and follows the stretcher outside.  A stoic

Ramsey enters from the living room and Novak can see the

disappointment in his eyes.

Novak would give anything for that not to be true.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - BASEMENT - DAY

Ramsey leads Novak into Stargher's "workroom."  It's all

here, the table, the piercing supplies, the bleach.  An odd,

grisly collection of DOLLS fills cubby holes in a wooden

storage/shelf unit.  Novak's eyes are like a camera,

documenting and storing as much information as possible, but

it's overwhelming.

He moves through the basement.  Careful not to touch

anything.  He stops and focuses on the hoist and eight hooks

situated over the stainless steel table.  (NOTE: ON THE

WINCH'S MOTOR IS A WORN PLAQUE READING "CARVER INDUSTRIAL

EQUIPMENT" with a logo).

Ramsey switches on the video monitor and the screen fills

with images of Anne dying in the cell.

Novak is painfully, tragically drawn to this.  Although he's

seen his share of horrific things, Novak is truly disturbed

by the sight of Anne, desperate to escape, drowning, slowly

dying, and he knows: This is what will happen to Julia

Hickson unless he finds her.

INT. THE CELL - NIGHT

CLICK.  WATER SPRAYS FROM THE SHOWER.  Caught by surprise,

Julia blocks the spray with her hands and searches for a shut

off valve.  Of course, there is none.  Thirty seconds later,

the water stops.  Like an animal caught in a trap, Julia's

eyes dart around her "cage."  What kind of hell is this?

Shivering, she catches herself in the mirror and looks deeply

into it.  Something's odd about the glass.  Is someone

watching her?  She bangs on it with her fist.

POUND, POUND, POUND!

But there's no response.  Only her reflection.

INT. KERN COUNTY HOSPITAL - EXAMINATION ROOM - NIGHT

A HUMAN EYE.  No movement, no deviation of the iris.  A fixed

stare.  The catatonic Stargher lies in a hospital bed, wrists

cuffed to the frame.  An IV feeds him fluids and monitors

report his vital signs.  As a nervous NURSE exits, we see TWO

POLICEMEN standing guard in the outer hallway.  Novak, Ramsey

and Teddy Lee stand by as the killer is examined by DR.

MILTON REID, a brilliant forensic M.D. currently shining an

opthalmoscope into Stargher's eyes.  He pulls away and checks

the ELECTROENCENPHELOGRAM already on a lightbox.

Novak doesn't like this.  Not one bit.

Clearly not.

Novak's worry intensifies.

Novak is past angry.  He's bordering on devastation.  Ramsey

attempts to placate him.

Ramsey backs off, knowing his partner is on the verge of

really losing it.  Reid thinks perhaps he shouldn't, but

sensitive to Novak's pain and anger, mentions it anyway - if

only to keep his friend from true hopelessness.

EXT. EDWARD'S WORLD - DAY

The ship's engine ROARS TO LIFE and the PROPELLER spins

through sand.

AT THE TREE TRUNK, Catherine extends her hand and suddenly

Edward is there, quite close, reaching out.  Catherine's hand

trembles.  The boy is startled.

Her hand tenses and shakes uncontrollably.

Edward is frightened by what's happening and runs away.

Catherine tries to call out, but her throat constricts,

making speech difficult.

Catherine's face is covered by a cloth floating down from the

sky.  The sky is replaced by the ceiling and overhead lights

of the LABORATORY, but Miriam's face remains constant.  Now

conscious, Catherine finds herself in the lab at the Campbell

Center, the suspension device lowering.

Cooperman appears in the window and explains.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

A SMALL TV SCREEN shows footage of Anne drowning in the cell.

Catherine, Cooperman, Henry, and Miriam watch with curiosity,

disgust, pity.  Novak and Ramsey flank the portable

monitor/VCR, knowing this is a disturbing but powerful tool.

There's someone else in the room.  John Tracy.  He cannot

watch the video, not again.  Catherine glances at him,

uncomfortable with his presence.

John tries to keep his composure, but Novak's making this

tough for him.  Novak wants the scientists to see, to

understand the boy's pain.

Miriam, Henry and Cooperman appear to be onboard.  Novak's

made a persuasive, heartfelt argument.  Only one person still

remains uncertain.

All eyes turn to her.

Catherine nods, analyzes Novak's eyes, gestures, body

language, and "interrogates" him.

John's discomfort is increasing and Novak is sensitive to it.

They turn to John Tracy.  His vulnerable, barely audible

voice forcing everyone to listen.

Catherine hangs her head.  And finds herself looking at

photograph of the girl in question.  A smiling Julia Hickson

looking right at her.

WHOOP-WHOOP-WHOOP-WHOOP.  POUNDING REVERBERATIONS...

EXT. CAMPBELL CENTER - DAY

WHOOP-WHOOP-WHOOP-WHOOP.  A HELICOPTER descends onto the pad.

A stretcher is removed from the side door of the helicopter.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - VARIOUS/TRAVELLING - DAY

The STAFF watches with a mixture of fear and curiosity as a

stretcher bearing the catatonic Stargher is wheeled FAST

through the corridors by an FBI escort team.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Hundreds of photographs, drawings, diagrams, maps,

blueprints, and documents - Novak's case material - cover

every inch of wallspace.  The table is littered with

reference books, atlases, telephones, a fax machine, short

wave radio, and computer/Internet terminal.  An FBI

TECHNICIAN completes the electronics work and points out the

"speed dial" functions to Novak and Ramsey.

Once he's gone, Ramsey takes this moment "alone" to question

his partner.

The words are anathema to Novak.

Cooperman appears in the doorway and informs them...

Ramsey looks to his partner, but Novak is already on

Cooperman's heels.  Resignedly, Ramsey follows.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY - DAY

Cooperman guides Novak and Ramsey into the lab.  The FBI men

are impressed, but neither is quite sure what to make it all.

The FBI escort team leader gets Ramsey's signature and Novak

undoes the cuffs from Stargher's wrists and ankles.

Following Miriam's direction, the escorts guide the gurney

carrying Stargher into the procedure room.  As Cooperman

shows them out, Henry seals shut the door.  Miriam assumes

responsibility for Stargher's care and checks his pulse, IV,

pupil dilation, and vital signs...

Proud of his computer, but uncomfortable around strangers,

Henry directs Novak and Ramsey to the console.

Although he's listening, Novak's eyes never really stray from

his prisoner as Miriam uses safety scissors to cut away

Stargher's clothes.

Novak observes Miriam as she "undresses" Stargher and Ramsey

pokes around the lab.

Miriam needs a moment to fully take in the scars.  Henry

continues, eager to focus attention back to him, but even he

is fascinated by Stargher's skin.

Miriam gives Stargher an alcohol bath, the clinical procedure

taking on the quality of ritual.  Her wash cloth moves under

Stargher's chin and over his face.  She's careful around the

eyes and finds herself unable to look at them for long.

Catherine enters from a dressing area wearing the bodysuit.

Filled with curiosity, Novak watches Miriam and Catherine fit

Stargher into his suit.

Catherine and Miriam try to hide their laughter.

Novak and Catherine roll Stargher onto his stomach.

We see a series of EIGHT BANDAGES.

Miriam peels away a bandage and examines the flesh.

Catherine connects Stargher to the SUSPENSION APPARATUS and

it HOISTS him off the table.

Henry catches Ramsey poking his nose near a THIRD SUIT AND

APPARATUS in the dressing area.

Miriam prepares a series of CHEMICAL CARTRIDGES and loads

them into a container connected to the IV-like tubes linked

to the suspension device.

Catherine focuses on the procedure and makes the necessary

connections.  Reluctantly, Miriam retreats to the monitoring

station.  She "locks down" the procedure room and joins

Henry, Novak, and Ramsey at the console.

That's like asking her to explain the rules of cricket.

Ramsey is utterly lost and just sort of nods, but Novak is

fascinated.  Catherine presses the bump on her hand.  A RED

INDICATOR LIGHT flashes on.

Catherine presses again and the red light shuts off.

Catherine and Stargher are suspended from the ceiling.  Henry

types and the lights dim to a more somber, tranquil level.

Various screens flicker to life, displaying the vital signs

of both "feed" and receive."  Miriam initiates the injection

program.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, we see chemicals mix with her blood,

then feed the IV.  AT THE CONSOLE, as Henry types furiously

at the computer keyboard, Novak asks Miriam:

Overhearing, Henry interrupts, pointing at a section of

Catherine's "mind map."

A hopeful, solemn Novak gazes through the window, watching

Catherine's body as it becomes parallel to Stargher's...

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Catherine takes a deep breath and as

the drugs take effect, feels herself losing consciousness.

She glances at Stargher, a man who tortures and kills women,

then looks up as the CLOTH MASK descends from the ceiling.

We follow fibrous wires running from Catherine's mask to

Stargher's.  Their blood mixing with chemicals in the IV-like

containers.  The computer system humming.

Catherine's eye focuses on the mask.  As it comes closer, we

see the lining is laced with thread-like wires and microchips

forming hyper-miniature circuit boards.  Catherine's eye

blinks.  The mask covers her face.  Catherine's eye shuts.

Vision fades.  Darkness.  A faint light.  Microscopic veins

in the eyelid become wires connected to chips.  And we're

MOVING, into the circuitry.

ENTRANCE ONE

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD

The pattern of the electronics grows into something more

organic, textured, concrete.  Evolving into a world.  Black

and shadow-filled, it resembles a labyrinthine complex of

vertical walls with cubicle like rooms carved deep into its

core.

Our journey into this bleak, grim place continues and we

occasionally glimpse brief images of a boy's baptism.

INTERCUT with this journey are sections of cloudy blackness

and fragmented visions of CATHERINE connected to the

apparatus, face masked, DESCENDING into this world.

There is an abrupt SHIFT from still images to regular motion

and we find ourselves gliding over a tidepool filled with

tiny fish and tadpoles.  At water's edge, lying on rough,

pebble-strewn ground, is a HAND.

Catherine's hand.  We sense MOVEMENT, but she remains still.

From the darkness comes a DOG.  Black in color and

featureless, it sniffs Catherine, dismisses her, and meanders

into a cubicle opposite her, disappearing from view.  After a

moment of odd quiet, a DROP OF BLOOD hits the mask and we

follow Catherine's hand as it moves to the cloth and removes

it from her own face.

IN MACROSCOPIC SUPER SLOW-MOTIONS, another BLOOD DROPLET

sails 64 into the air and comes crashing down, hitting a RED

ANT, catapulting it onto what looks like a tree, but is just

a TWIG.  As the insect scurries away, MORE DROPS pound the

earth, splatter against "twig trees," and explode into pools

of stagnant water...

As we begin to realize that this miniature landscape is the

world into which Catherine descended.

She sits up, shivering, and breathes deeply, acclimating to

her surroundings.  The "floor" is covered with filth, ash,

pebbles, and insects.  Water is present in many forms,

puddles, moisture, dripping ceilings.

Eyes focusing, queasy, not fully "awake," Catherine notices

the crimson stain on the cloth mask and the blood droplets

showering the air.  She turns and finds the source.

THE BLACK DOG stands in the opposite room next to a tub full

of BLOOD, shaking himself dry after his "bath."  Satisfied,

the animal stops and trots away.  Still adjusting to this

nightmarish realm, Catherine at first doesn't hear it, but

then realizes that somewhere, a child is CRYING.  She looks

around, then through a crack in the "floor," briefly catches

sight of a BOY beneath her, on a level lower than hers.  As

he disappears into corridor ending in "nothing," we PULL BACK

to show a MASSIVE LANDSCAPE of blocks, cubicles, crawlspace,

walls, stairs, and ladders.  Leading everywhere and nowhere.

Catherine spots the boy as he crawls into a specific "room."

Shortly after, a LIGHT comes on within the cubicle and she

moves to it.  We feel as though we're looking at a series of

interlocked tenement rooms, some walls of which have been

torn away to expose rooms within, rooms with no windows or

doors.  Following a path of fragile steps, Catherine makes

her way to the LIGHTED ROOM and enters.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - LIGHTED ROOM

A mottled HORSE stands with its head down, nose kissing the

floor, allowing the BOY to caress its neck.  This sweet

animal is an incrongruous vision in this hellish world and

Catherine approaches with respect.

The frightened child retreats into a corner of the

claustrophobic room, but the horse does not startle.

Surprisingly - to the boy - the horse takes an affectionate

step toward Catherine, inviting her to take over.  Catherine

allows the mare to smell her, then vigorously scratches along

the mane and shoulder, much to the horse's delight.

She can see the boy hiding in the corner, stealing glances at

her from the shadows.

The boy - YOUNG STARGHER - is startled and intrigued by the

question - How did she know that?! - but says nothing.

The boy reacts to an unusual SOUND coming from the CEILING.

The boy takes a few steps toward her, out of the shadows, but

he seems more concerned about something in the ceiling than

"connecting" with Catherine.  Very anxiously, he looks at the

wall behind Catherine and watches an old wind-up kitchen

TIMER click down.

Again, a sharp SOUND from the ceiling.

Young Stargher RUNS at her and SHOVES her hard!  Catherine

FALLS BACK just as EIGHT SHEETS OF GLASS drop from the

ceiling!  Like oversize razor blades, they slice the horse

into four clean sections.  They separate and compact the

quadrants until four glass-contained sections of dissected

horse stand within the room.  Catherine SCREAMS, but the mare

barely acknowledged what happened.  Betraying no emotion, the

boy runs.  The shaken Catherine takes a moment to collect

herself, then gives chase.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - THE LABYRINTH

Young Stargher knows his way around the landscape, but

Catherine has difficulty simply keeping him in sight.  She

runs, climbs and crawls.  Until she's utterly lost and

disoriented.  Tired and having difficulty breathing, she

drops to her knees and "cools down."  She hears a NOISE

nearby, gets to her feet, and finds a GEARED MECHANISM

connected to some kind of SHUTTERED DOOR composed of an

almost metallic-looking glass.  Curious yet cautious, she

examines the nearby walls, floor, and ceiling for any signs

of "traps" akin to the glass blades.  Finding none, she pulls

the mechanism and quickly steps back.

The shutter opens and Catherine knows there's something alive

in the tiny cubicle beyond.  She retreats into shadow,

hiding.  Released from the chamber is a WOMAN.  As she moves

out of a darkness, we see VICTIM ONE.

Ghostly pale and adorned in eerie fetish garb, she appears to

"sense" the presence of a stranger, targets Catherine in the

shadows, and ATTACKS!

Catherine's had enough and moves to press the implant, BUT

THE VICTIM IS ALREADY THERE!

She brutally grabs Catherine, THROWS her against the wall and

SMACKS her head against it.  Catherine drops to the floor

like a rag doll.

Victim One hefts Catherine onto her shoulder and with great

purpose, carries her deep into the labyrinth, toward the

core.  Passing in and out of consciousness, between darkness

and light, a dazed Catherine is taken on a "tour" of

Stargher's world.  Passing mausoleum-like chambers filled

with IMAGES of unspeakable horror and/or disturbing

intensity.  At one of the rooms, we think we see Young

Stargher silently observing...

Sitting of standing in individual cubicles are STARGHER'S

OTHER VICTIMS (TWO thru SIX), each woman resembling the

grotesque porcelain dolls glimpsed in the cubbyholes in

Stargher's basement.  Dressed by a fetishistic sadist (Nine

Inch Nails meets the Brides of Dracula), they resemble bored

housewives, barely acknowledging the new member of the

"harem."

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - THE CORE

VICTIM ONE drops Catherine in the center of the room and, job

done, crawls away.

Groggy, feeling sick, Catherine sits up.  Unbeknownst to her,

she is sitting at the base of a pedestal with her back to the

kind of THRONE.  And someone is there.  In the dim pool of

light above the pedestal, we see a MAN rise from the throne.

The wall behind him is covered in BLOOD RED CLOTH, and as he

descends, we realize it is a CAPE connected to EIGHT METAL

RINGS pierced through the flesh of his back.  In a fluid

motion, waves of red give way to harshly textured concrete as

the man reaches the floor.  Catherine knows he is there.

Unable to stop herself, she turns.  And sees the terrifying

face of STARGHER.  But no the same Stargher.

This is STARGHER KING.

In a split second, Catherine presses the implant on her hand.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM - DAY

Apparently capable of staying awake if properly caffeinated,

Novak sits cross-legged on the floor, shoes off, analyzing

RECENT PHOTOS AND DOCUMENTS sent to him via courier.

Ignoring a snoring Ramsey napping on a nearby cot, Novak

looks at blow-ups from the videos, blueprints of Stargher's

house, detailed shots of the basement, and a draftsman's

conceptual drawing of the cell itself.

Novak looks at an INTERCOM SPEAKER.

Novak doesn't wait for his just-stirring partner and moves.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

As he enters, Novak sees a concerned Henry checking a print

out of the procedure.

Noting Novak's confusion, Henry points to a CENTRAL MONITOR

resembling a futuristic V.U. meter, gradiated in sections of

white, yellow, orange, and red.

As Ramsey joins them, Novak nods, understanding, but his eyes

are on Catherine, who's just coming back to consciousness.

As Novak lingers on that question, Ramsey gestures at the red

section.

Novak doesn't like the sound of that.

Henry types a command and Novak speaks into the intercom.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Miriam eases Catherine back to

consciousness.

When she sees Stargher, Catherine's flesh crawls.

No response.

Incapable of being in the same room as him, Catherine tears

out of the apparatus and anxiously exits.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM:

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - DAY

A worried Novak searches the halls of the Campbell Center.

He's about to ask the staff for help, but stops when he sees

through the window to Edward's room.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - EDWARD'S ROOM

Catherine sits next to the boy's bed, holding Edward's hand,

softly singing a lullaby (to him, to herself).  Feeling that

he must speak to her, Novak intervenes.

Catherine nods.  Novak picks up Edward's fallen teddy bear

and rests it in the crook of the child's arm.

She appreciates his understanding.  And finds herself

comforted by his presence.  Catherine scrutinizes Novak, his

intensity, his honesty, his complexity.  And asks:

The question catches Novak off-guard, but he's willing to

answer.  Anything to get her talking.

Catherine laughs.  It helps her relax.  If only slightly.

This is difficult for her.

She kisses Edward's forehead and exits.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM/COURTYARD - DAY

Catherine and Novak sit on a bench in the center of the

courtyard.  John Tracy is visible in the reception area,

unable to sleep, desperately trying to fight frustration.

Novak nods.  Guilty.

Catherine looks at him with disbelief.  "You?!"

Catherine can see the pain and frustration in Novak's eyes.

She gives him a moment and asks:

Novak's curiosity is piqued.

Novak doesn't respond.  She prods him.

God, he does not want to do this.

He can see Catherine doesn't accept that.

Catherine realizes that was a confession.

They turn to see Ramsey.

Ramsey shoots him a murderous look, then asks Catherine.

Novak looks to Catherine for the answer.  Through the window

blinds, she watches John Tracy lower his head.

Ramsey nods and heads back to the lab.

Briefly, he touches her hand.  Catherine looks away from John

to Novak's hand, to the photographs on the wall.  Stargher's

house, Valentine, the pick-up truck.  Valentine...

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CORRIDOR - DAY

A K-9 UNIT FBI AGENT escorts VALENTINE to the lab.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY - DAY

As the agent brings the frightened animal into the monitoring

area, Catherine and Valentine share a moment of "connection."

Slowly, confidently, she approaches the Shepherd, kneels, and

removes his leash and muzzle.  She strokes him and the dog

instantly warms up to her.

Novak signs a document and the K-9 Agent exits.

The dog picks up a scent from the procedure room and moves

it, Catherine and Novak following.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Stargher lies face down on a gurney.

Now taped to the wall near Stargher are PICTURES from the

basement - his dolls, the hoist, etc.  Miriam (in surgical

mask and gloves) carefully re-inserts the METAL RINGS (taken

from an FBI EVIDENCE BAG) into the eight straps of flesh on

his back.  When he sees this, Valentine whimpers and hides.

Catherine comforts him.  Miriam finishes her task and removes

her mask.

Valentine runs to his "sleeping" master and barks at

Catherine as if asking for help.  She encourages the animal

to lick and sniff Stargher's face and hands.

IN THE CONTROL ROOM, he scrutinizes the monitor showing the

detailed "map" of Stargher's brain.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Catherine readies herself in the

"receive" apparatus.  As Stargher is lifted off the pedestal,

the doors HISS shut and Valentine curls up on the floor

beneath his master.  As Catherine is lifted, she smiles at

the animal, then looks to Stargher.

LIGHTS FLICKER.  Catherine's eyes shut.  FADE TO BLACK...

LIGHTS FLICKER.  We hear an ELECTRICAL HUM rise and fall.

Catherine opens her eyes and the LIGHTS blink on and off in a

weird pattern, making it difficult to see clearly.

Her suspension apparatus DESCENDS on the floor.

Catherine moves toward the electrical panel.

As she moves toward the panel, everything becomes larger.  By

the time Catherine reaches the circuit breaker, it is the

size of a garage door.  Curiouser and curiouser...

She turns around to see the LABORATORY IS EMPTY and DEAD

QUIET.  And she sees herself - Catherine as small as a mouse

trapped in a giant walled space.

AT THE CONSOLE, Novak, Miriam and Henry observe the procedure

room.  And Catherine.  Suspended in the apparatus.

Motionless...

ENTRANCE TWO

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD

Catherine turns to see... Catherine lying in the fetal

position, locked in a BOX made of thick clean glass.  The

electronic HUM becomes RHYTHMIC, AMBIENT NOISE.. INSIDE THE

BOX, staying calm, she searches for and finds a TRAP DOOR on

the floor.  She pushes out.  The camera executes a complete

180-degree perspective change.

Catherine plummets.  She tries to reach out, to stop her

descent, but cannot.

Catherine falls through a dark CAVERNOUS ROOM resembling a

mammoth hollowed-out rib cage.  Below her is a DOME-LIKE

STRUCTURE "growing" out of the floor, a HOLE in the center of

its crest.  Dozens of other such domes are visible in the

murky hell-hole, but Catherine has no choice.  She's dropping

into this one.

Once she passes through the hole, INSIDE THE DOME,

Catherine's body looks as though it's moving through water,

but there is no water.  Like an aerial artist, she reverses

her position so she's "heads up."  Standing, stable, on the

floor.  Sensing something with her.  And knows it is...

Out from the darkness, moving in normal motion, comes the

white German Shepherd, but in the thick haze, his face is

indistinct and ghostly.

And as she steps toward him, his face DISSOLVES into a STARK

LANDSCAPE.  An ear becomes a hill, the nose a stone, mouth a

path, and the eye a HOUSE.

YOUNG STARGHER retreats towards the bleak structure as

CATHERINE ENTERS FRAME.  Seeing the invitation, she presses

on.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - BOYHOOD HOME - KITCHEN

Young Stargher is at the sink WASHING DISHES, an anxious eye

on the clock.

As Catherine enters the claustrophobic house, the boy

hesitantly pushes a towel toward her, but doesn't look.  She

reaches the counter and starts to dry, much to Young

Stargher's relief.  As he washes, Catherine hands him a

MIRROR LOCKET just like Edward's.

He's hypnotized by the thing, his eyes lighting up.

She shines reflected light onto the walls.  Carl hands

Catherine the wet plate and takes the locket.  The dish slips

from her fingers and SHATTERS on the floor.  The boy's eyes

fill with dread.  The kitchen clock reads 5:30.  He PUSHES

Catherine toward a broom closet and shoves her inside.

With a finger to his lips, he pockets the locket and shuts

the door.  FROM WITHIN THE CLOSET, she watches the terrified

child through a CRACK in the door.  IN THE KITCHEN, Young

Stargher desperately tries to hide the broken plate.

Startlingly, his father, Martin Stargher, is already in the

room.  Cruel, imposing, manipulative man.

Young Stargher backs into a corner, fearing what will come.

IN THE CLOSET, Catherine pushes, but the door won't budge.

She POUNDS.  IN THE KITCHEN, we hear no sound.

INT. CLOSET - CONTINUOUS

Catherine hears the child SCREAM.  But the scream comes from

behind and she spins around.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - LIVING ROOM

Young Stargher is forced to sit on the lap of an ugly MIDDLE

AGED WOMAN barely wearing a man's robe.  On a nearby table

are whisky, tumblers, and an ashtray filled with butts.

She gives him a TOY DOLL.  Drunk, she hugs and kisses him.

Embarrassed, the boy tries to squirm away.

Martin enters and sneers at the boy.

The woman cowers, familiar with his violent moods.  The boy

hurries to his room, but Martin grabs him by the collar.

He pulls the doll from the child's hands, turns to the woman,

and SMACKS her across the face with it, gashing her cheek.

Terrified, she shakes her head "no."  Martin sees Young

Stargher quietly crawling away, hoping to escape.

Martin lifts the boy off the floor with one hand and holds

him in front of the woman.

The poor boy trembles with fear.  And Martin notices a puddle

of urine on the floor.  He drops the boy and laughs.

Humiliated, Carl covers himself and hides in a corner.

Martin and the woman LAUGH AND LAUGH, delighting in the boy's

humiliation.

INT. CLOSET

Feeling the boy's shame, Catherine turns and finds a FADED

POSTCARD taped to the wall.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - BEDROOM

Martin has discovered his son's secret hiding place - a

camouflaged corner of the attic.  Arranged in deliberate,

artistic fashion are scavenged DOLLS.  Heads, limbs and

torsos held together with twine, tape and wire.  Some wrapped

in filthy plastic.  Faded photographs (including one of his

MOTHER), mementos, and most disturbingly, the feathers and

bones of dead birds, insect carcasses, and dissected,

desiccated mice.  There's something peculiarly beautiful

here, but Martin doesn't see it.  Not at all.

He turns and we see Carl is bound to a wooden support beam, a

piece of tape covering his mouth.  The boy is stripped to the

waste, barely conscious, face streaked with tears and sweat.

INT. CLOSET

A WEIRD NOISE snaps Catherine back to "reality."  She turns

just as a door opens behind her.  Responding to the

"invitation," she moves through it.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - BATHROOM

The adult Carl Stargher sits at the edge of the tub, his back

to us, smoking a cigarette.  A white German Shepherd PUPPY

clicks across the tile floor and YIPS at Catherine.  She

again hears the WEIRD NOISE.  A STAINLESS STEEL BOWL wobbles

as Stargher's bloody rubber-gloved hands fill it with

something.  Stargher knows she's there and isn't surprised by

her presence, but he's not sure what to make of her.  What to

do with her.  He rises and walks past her to the sink.  He

pulls off the gloves and washes his hands, glancing at her in

the mirror.

Catherine cannot resist looking in the tub.  She sees a dead

girl, her torso sliced open.  Disgusted and mortified, she

pulls back.

She turns, and Stargher is no longer at the sink.

She turns, where's this voice coming from?!  She steps back.

The bumps into the stainless steel bowl and it topples to the

floor, spilling its contents of human organs.  Wobble-wobble

wobble.  The bowl makes its now-familiar noise.

And she can see him coming out of the shadows.  Catherine

backs into a corner, fearing what will come.

Stargher steps into a pool of light, shooshes the puppy into

the hall, shuts the bathroom door, and looks right at

Catherine.

God almighty, what does she say?  What does she tell him?!

SCRITCH-SCRITCH-SCRITCH.  The puppy scratches at the door and

whimpers, but Stargher's not about to let him back in.

Moving slowly, carefully, he approaches Catherine.

Catherine makes a break for the door.  "Playfully," Stargher

makes a half-hearted attempt to block her, but she evades him

and reaches for the knob.  But the door's not there.  SCRITCH

SCRITCH-SCRITCH.  She can still hear the dog, but there's no

damn door.  She turns:

No door.  No window.  The girl's body and bloody remains have

vanished.  An OVERHEAD LIGHT flickers on, giving the room the

look and feel of the cell.

Catherine turns, back to the wall, calm and intimidating,

Stargher stands in the center regarding her with great

curiosity.  Catherine's ready to press the sensor.

She hesitates.

How did he know?

Catherine stops and listens.  She can't leave now.  The path

to Julia has appeared.

He reaches for her and she flinches.  Expecting such

behavior, Stargher grins.

Catherine cannot show her fear, not now.  She composes

herself and approaches him.

His grin broadens to a smile and he almost laughs.

Catherine stands her ground.

He gets close to her face and sneers.

Stargher retreats into the shadows, but Catherine persists.

Henry sees a rapid rise in Catherine's warning meter.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - BATHROOM

A wave of fear, of impending doom, overtakes Catherine.

And when he emerges from shadow, Stargher is STARGHER KING.

Catherine moves to touch the sensor in her hand.  He GRABS,

LIFTS and SLAMS her onto the floor, the back of her head

HITTING HARD.  Her vision blurs.  Ears are ringing.

Stargher King straddles Catherine and pins her arms behind

her back.  She's unable to touch the sensor.  With the tip of

the TOOL he traces a line from her pelvis up the center of

her suit.

He shoves the tool through her neck and presses the trigger.

A COLLAR CLAMPS SHUT around Catherine's neck and...

She blacks out.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

A SENSOR ALARM SOUNDS on the computer.  Henry and Miriam

express shock at the sight of the monitor peaking in the red

and move to the "map" of Catherine's mind.  As it becomes

"cool," Stargher's becomes "hot."

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, VALENTINE BARKS!  Startling everyone.

The dog GROWLS and backs away.  As if he senses something

horribly wrong within his master.

IN THE CONTROL ROOM, Novak questions the scientists.

Mercy.  Novak's mind reels.

Novak knows who that person will be.

INT. CELL - DAY

Fueling herself with candy and juice, Julia examines the cell

for a way out, but finds tight seals everywhere.  THE SHOWER

ERUPTS WITH WATER!   She counts until thirty, it stops.

Shivering, Julia stars at the drain as the water spirals

down.

ON THE OTHER SIDE OF THE GLASS, we watch her through one-way

glass from the video camera's point-of-view.  She looks right

at "us," in the mirror, saddened by the dark circles under

her bloodshot eyes.

We drift to the right and see the l.e.d. counters CLICKING

AWAY.  01:44:54, 01:44:53, 01:44:52... Less than TWO HOURS to

live and she has no idea.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Novak lies in a hastily-rigged THIRD

APPARATUS/SUSPENSION DEVICE.  Miriam connects him to the IV

cylinder and tubes.

Miriam nods, knowing he won't accept an opposing argument.

IN THE OBSERVATION ROOM, Henry adjusts monitors showing

Novak's vital signs.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Miriam asks:

She loads a MICROCHIP SENSOR into a high-pressure injection

gun and IMPLANTS it in NOVAK's HAND.  He winces from the

brief pain as she loads the chemical cartridges.

Henry checks the "maps,"  Catherine's vitals and reports.

Miriam walks Novak through what's about to happen.

She gives him a supportive touch on the shoulder, exits and

shuts the door.  IN THE OBSERVATION ROOM, Miriam continues

via intercom.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Novak flexes his fingers and sees the

little bump beneath his flesh.

Novak does and the red light comes on.  As Novak is LIFTED,

he looks at Catherine, then Stargher.  Valentine YIPS and

settles beneath Novak.  The suspension device clicks into

place and the MASK descends.

Novak's eyes fix on the clear liquid contained in the IV-like

cylinder.  A liquid cloud of his blood grows within.

Preparing the mixture for injection.

The viscosity of the fluid starts to thicken and the CAMERA

MOVES INTO THE MIXTURE.  As blood and chemical swirls take

shape, we MOVE FAST.  Deeper into the fluid at a molecular

level.  We feel like we're SOARING over some kind of liquid

landscape.

NOVAK HYPERVENTILATES.  He's having difficulty making the 98

transition.

Flying faster, faster, faster.  Through an entire universe.

Novak is in the procedure room.  Alone.  His face contorted

as if feeling the effects of tremendous G-FORCE.

ENTRANCE THREE

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD

CLOUDS hover above a dark, gloomy landscape dotted with

hills.  THREE IDENTICAL WOMEN sit on black earth, their

bodies positioned in a uniform pattern.  PULL BACK TO REVEAL

NOVAK at their feet, in a kneeling fetal position, face down

in the gritty soil, a piece of cloth draped over his head.

With difficulty, practically inhaling black grit, Novak

breathes deeply and rises to his knees.  His hand moves to

his face and he's briefly astounded by the texture of the

gravel, the sharpness of it against his face.  Removing the

shroud-like cloth, he looks at the soil, smells it, tastes

it.

Novak finds the first of the three - VISIONS OF STARGHER'S

MOTHER - addressing him.  She, like the other two, speaks in

a ghostly monotone, nearly devoid of emotion.

As she continues, almost mantra-like, WOMAN TWO BEGINS:

The women's repetitive "monologues" overlap.  Aurual layers

now added by THREE.

Novak takes a moment to absorb his surroundings.  The sights,

sounds and feel of the place.  Like being within a dream.  As

he backs away from the odd quartet, SHIMMERING LIGHT dances

across his face.  Shading his eyes.  Novak searches for the

source.

Opposite him, across the valley, is a SHEER ROCK WALL.  A

massive cliff face pockmarked with rough "windows."  Like a

star, the LIGHT sparkles inside one of them, a fragment of

MIRROR reflecting a beam away from Novak's face to a PATH

cutting across the valley floor to the base of the wall.

The light guiding him, Novak follows the path and starts to

CLIMB, finding stairs or ladders, passing deep, seemingly

infinite passages.  Like tombs, or the "drawers" of a

mausoleum.  Deep within one of them, THE LIGHT FLICKERS.

Fades.  And Novak crawls into darkness.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - THE DEN

Novak emerges in a cavernous room dripping with decadence.

The place reeks of sex, pain, lust, and cruelty.  As he moves

deeper into the chamber, Novak sees YOUNG STARGHER perched

atop some kind of pedestal, crouching, fingering his mirror

LOCKET, bouncing sparkles of light into the dark corners of

the room

The FLICKERING LIGHT pinpoints a FIGURE emerging from the

darkness.  It is Catherine.  Altered to an image of

Stargher's victims.  Her skin, face, clothing, eyes, are just

like the Victims'.  It's a shocking, strange image, made even

more disturbing by the look of pleasure on her face.  Novak

is staggered by the sight.  His vision and hearing become

affected by blurred vision, sharp sounds - then focus to

clarity as he reminds himself...

Like an ethereal queen of the damned, she strides toward him,

narrowing her eyes.

She exhibits no recognition of her name.  Catherine

seductively moves closer to Novak, their bodies almost

touching, her hands caressing his hair, lips, neck...

She presses her finger to his lips and forces him down, onto

the floor, his back to the pedestal.  Catherine straddles

Novak, and when he tries to stand, she holds him down,

forcing him to stay.

She steals a glance over his shoulder and glimpses a MALE

FIGURE coming toward them, coming into the light.  Novak is

utterly unaware of what's happening.  Catherine is keeping

him occupied.  Waiting for the arrival of...

STARGHER KING

Catherine LAUGHS.  Novak catches only a fleeting glimpse of

the monster before Stargher King GRABS him by the throat and

SMASHES his head against a pedestal.

BLACKOUT.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - THE DEN

Eyelids rise and flutter.  Novak becomes conscious.  And

instantly realizes what's happened.

He lies on the pedestal, face up, spread-eagle, his wrists

and ankles bound to the cold stone surface with leathery

cords.  Standing over him, in a pool of light, is Stargher

King.  Wearing what could be seen as CEREMONIAL GARB, a

silent, solemn Stargher King prepares himself for execution

of a ritual by polishing and arranging an assortment of

shiny, sharp, macabre TOOLS.

Novak shuts his eyes and silently tells himself, Not real.

He opens them, breathes deeply and focuses on Catherine.

Stargher King's fingers pass over an array of horrific

instruments - the throat piercer/collar mechanism, a cleaver

knife, a misshapen hammer, a long slender needle...

Stargher King lifts the blade-like NEEDLE.  So far, Catherine

looks at Novak like he's speaking gibberish.

Stargher King SLICES through Novak's clothes, exposing the

flesh of his abdomen.

Stargher King grabs his throat and traces the blade down the

center of Novak's torso.  Novak struggles and pleads with

Catherine.

Stargher King cuts his flesh and INSERTS the needle into his

stomach.  NOVAK SCREAMS!  This fucking hurts!

Stargher King wiggles the needle, pulls it out, and digs his

finger into the wound.  NOVAK CRIES IN PAIN.

The intensity of Novak's cries hit Catherine like a

thunderbolt.  There's a glimmer of life, of recognition in

her eyes.

Although we don't see it, we HEAR something awful.  Like

Stargher King fishing around inside the wound.  A pale,

sweating Novak tries to stay conscious.  He will not go into

shock...

A FEMALE HAND grabs the tool from the tray.

STARGHER KING IS SLAMMED FROM BEHIND!  CATHERINE RAMS THE

THING THROUGH HIS THROAT!   As Stargher King stumbles away

gagging, blood pouring form his neck, we see that she has

returned to normal.  The "bride" persona is gone.  As

Stargher King emits animalistic growls, Catherine turns and

sees an intact Novak standing next to her.  As if nothing had

happened.

Catherine and Novak RUN out of the den, into the tunnel from

which Novak gained access.  He stops, ready to press the

sensor, when a FLICKER OF LIGHT dances across Catherine's

face.

But she won't listen and he's forced to play catch up as she

moves further from the den toward the cliff face.  The

FLICKER OF LIGHT shines on the entrance to a specific TUNNEL.

INT. TUNNEL/CUBBYHOLE

On her hands and knees, she enters the TUNNEL, not waiting

for him to respond.  She knows what he'll do... Catherine and

Novak crawl through the dark, grimy claustrophobic space,

playing with his mirror locket.

He so desperately wants her affection, but fear prevents him

from reaching out to her.

Scared, he shakes his head "no."

She extends her hand.  Oh-so-hesitantly he takes it.

Shyly, hesitantly, he nods.  She smiles gratefully and

affectionately touches the boy's face.  Clasping her hand,

Young Stargher leads Catherine and Novak into utter darkness.

INT. STARGHER'S WORLD - THE IDEALIZED CELL

More stylized than the actual cell, it's bigger and ornately

decorated, with the atmosphere of a church.  Individual

IMAGES hang like SHRINES, each showing Julia Hickson from

different angles.

Central to the room is a WINDOW INTO THE CELL ITSELF.  Where

we find a beautiful, mermaid-like JULIA HICKSON floating in

water.  Peaceful, joyous.

IN THE CENTER OF THE ROOM, we find Novak and Catherine, she

holding the hand of Young Stargher, he stunned at the sight

of Julia.  The child looks at Catherine with beatific, sad

eyes, regarding her as one would a saviour.

He shakes his head and buries his face in her shoulder.

As a frustrated Novak searches for anything identifying,

Catherine comforts the boy and looks deeply into his sad,

haunted eyes.

The boy leans against her and she caresses his face.

Novak finds himself standing in front of the idealized cell.

Mounted beneath the glass is a shiny, perfect metal plaque

reading CARVER INDUSTRIAL EQUIPMENT, with a logo.  Novak

recognizes it from the hoist in Stargher's basement.

He pulls her to her feet.  Feeling betrayed and rejected, the

child breaks away from her.  THE ROAR OF STARGHER KING shakes

the cell.  Terrified, the boy searches for a place to hide.

Novak feels what's coming.

STARGHER KING APPEARS!  His throat wounded, bloody mess, he

descends out of dark nothingness, HOWLING with rage.  He

reaches for Catherine, but Young Stargher runs in front of

her.

STARGHER KING CLAMPS HIS MASSIVE ARMS AROUND THE CHILD!

Little Carl opens his mouth in a silent scream... Catherine's

arms reach out to him, but Novak clasps her hand and presses.

And she is haunted by the sight of a frightened child in the

arms of a monster...

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

Henry notices significant activity on the monitors.

Everything happens fast.  He and Miriam frantically cease the

procedure.

Novak and Catherine are lowered and Novak startles them by

quickly regaining consciousness.  Miriam attempts to inject

him with stabilizing drugs, but he's already trying to tear

himself out of the apparatus.

Miriam MOVES into the PROCEDURE ROOM.

Miriam tries to follow protocol, but Novak is moving like a

fish caught in a net, ripping and tearing his way out of the

apparatus and suit.  He gets to his feet, but soon falls to

his knees, dizzy and disoriented.

Novak is not listening.  Fighting off any after-effects- both

physical and mental - he moves for the door.

Catherine is coming back and Miriam moves to her.  Novak

pauses just for a moment.

Novak is already gone.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM

Novak speed-dials a number on speaker-phone, hurriedly

dresses, and locates a photograph of Stargher's basement.

When he hears someone pick up the line, he barks:

A confused Ramsey enters and listens.

INT. STARGHER HOUSE - BASEMENT

A team of FBI AGENTS is meticulously going through every inch

of Stargher's house.

Crisscrossed wooden beams have been laid across the pit

allowing forensics experts to search without disturbing

anything.  On the other end of the direct line is COLE...

(INTERCUT WITH NOVAK AND RAMSEY)

WE FOLLOW Cole as he moves to the machine.

Cole locates it.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - CONFERENCE ROOM

Novak instructs him...

Dizziness and disorientation again hit Novak.  Pale and

sweating, he winces as his stomach agonizingly cramps.

Fighting the pain, he gathers together MAPS, slips on his

shoes and grabs gun and holster.  Ramsey is apoplectic.

specifically the hoist.

Novak is not stopping...

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Miriam shines the penlight into

Catherine's eyes.

AT THE CONSOLE, on a security monitor, Henry can see Novak

and Ramsey exiting down the corridor.

IN THE PROCEDURE ROOM, Miriam appears concerned.

Catherine encourages her.

As Miriam hurries to catch Novak, she tells Henry.

He nods, but isn't really paying attention.  Catherine turns

to Stargher's motionless form, still suspended, still

connected to the machinery.

INT. THE CELL - DAY

She looks around the room and runs her hands along the walls,

the tile, looking for a weak spot.  She focuses on the

CEILING PANEL and although it's painful because of swollen

fingers, removes her ENGAGEMENT RING.

EXT. CAMPBELL CENTER

A ready-and-waiting HELICOPTER is on the pad.  Novak races

out of the Center, Ramsey right behind him, SHOUTING at each

other in order to hear above the chopper noise.

He won't consider that.  Novak climbs into the helicopter and

buckles himself in.  He looks to Ramsey - you coming? -

Ramsey pats the side of the chopper and signals for the pilot

to take off.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

Henry analyzes voluminous print-outs from the last procedure.

Although his eyes are on the data, he converses with

Catherine in the PROCEDURE ROOM via intercom.

We see chemicals flow and computer programs initiate the

procedure, but Henry is oblivious.

He JUMPS when the door to the procedure room SEALS SHUT and

mechanisms HUM.

When he looks through the window, Catherine is again

suspended, the procedure under way.

He types in a command, but nothing happens.  He tires again.

On another keyboard, but gets no response.  When he looks at

the "map" screens, he sees something odd.  It's a small

change, but it makes all the difference in the world.

Like a rock climber in a crevasse, Julia shimmies up the

walls of the cell by bracing herself in a corner and using

her hands and feet to push up.  The tile is slippery and each

movement precarious.

She uses strength and balance to reach a position just below

the Plexiglass, the fluorescent light bathing her in an eerie

intense glow.  She sees a gap between the glass and the wall

and uses her ENGAGEMENT RING to dig into it, SCAPE, SCRAPE,

SCRAPING with the diamond.

THE SHOWER SPRAYS WATER!  Julia nearly loses her balance, but

manages to stay pressed into the corner.  She kicks the

shower head, sending the spray as far from her as possible,

and continues to dig at the caulking around the light

fixture.

IN THE OBSERVATION ROOM, we see something unexpected.  The

clock reads 00:00:00.  That water isn't going to stop.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - EDWARD'S ROOM

Miriam and Ramsey return to the lab to find Henry anxiously

observing from the console.

Miriam analyzes the situation and regretfully, angrily,

worriedly realizes what's happened.

ENTRANCE FOUR

INT. CATHERINE'S WORLD

A bright, deliriously colorful realm visually reflective of

things we saw in Catherine's home.  Unusual trees, rock

formations, totems, statues, and a brilliant POOL OF WATER.

The pond ripples.  Visible through the crystal-clear water is

YOUNG STARGHER, rising to the surface like a drowning victim

suddenly breaking through to air.  Panicked, he scrambles to

shore and pulls himself to land.  Although the place is

comforting and beautiful, he's in strange territory and it

frightens him.  Shivering, he hunches down, eyes darting this

way and that.

The boy turns toward the voice and finds CATHERINE, her hair

waving in the wind, skin glowing, eyes bright, cutting a

magnificent figure in clothes that make her a warrior

goddess.

She opens her arms and the boy runs to her, basking in the

comfort of her embrace.  He shivers and she holds him

tightly.

She looks deeply into his eyes and reassuringly explains.

Catherine is astonished and relieve to hear him speak.  A

sad, trembling little voice.

She is touched that he would ask and strokes his face.

The boy breaks away from her, turning his back.  She gently

takes his hand but he yanks it free.

He slowly turns to her.

Young Stargher's eyes open wide with silent terror.  Over his

shoulder, she sees a SNAKE slither through the pool.

CENTIPEDES CRAWL over her legs and hair.  She stands and

brushes them off.  The atmosphere grows darker and ominous.

Catherine bristles as STARGHER KING RISES FROM THE POOL like

a human serpent.  The brilliant colors of Catherine's world

fade to GRIM TONES.

Stargher King SCREECHES with anger and confusion.

He snarls when he sees Catherine.

Young Stargher tightens his embrace of Catherine.  She steps

back, away from the pond, hugging the boy tightly.

Stargher King laughs.

He comes close and reaches for the boy...

For a moment, Catherine appears frightened and intimidated.

Perhaps near an emotional breakdown.  But that is not the

case.  She quietly lowers little Carl to the ground and

whispers something in his ear.  As the boy nods, runs and

hides, a ferocity grows within her.

Like a vengeful Valkyrie, she emits what can only be called a

BATTLE CRY!  STARGHER ATTACKS!  Arms reaching for her.

Catherine BLOCKS, PUNCHES, AND KICKS.  Stargher King doubles

over.  Catherine grabs his ears and pulls his face into her

bent KNEE, breaking his nose.

As blood flows from his nostrils, Stargher King grins...

HE CHARGES.  At the right moment, Catherine sidesteps and

SMASHES him in the ribs as he passes.  Stargher King crumples

to the ground and she KICKS an uppercut to this chin.  Rising

from the mud and muck, Stargher King lands a POWERFUL BLOW to

her head, sending her flying.  He lifts the stunned Catherine

with one hand and pulls her face to his...

Catherine looks into his soulless eyes.  Then SPITS in them

and BITES his face!  She breaks free as he YOWLS with pain.

He steps toward her, but his feet don't move.  The earth

itself appears to wrap around them and turn hard, like

concrete.  Stargher King HOWLS with frustration.

A SHIMMERING KNIFE seems to enrage from within her forearm,

out the flesh and into her hand.

She SLASHES across his chest, drawing blood.

Catherine stops.  And turns to see the distraught Young

Stargher.

She spins around and sees not Stargher King, but MARTIN.

Disturbed by the transformation, Catherine backs away.  Her

vision blurs, the sound distorts.  And the earth cracks

around Stargher King's ankles.

Fighting feelings of disorientation, she kneels before the

child and rests the knife on the ground.

She reaches out to him, but the child is JERKED into the air

by Stargher King.  In one hand, the monster holds little

Carl.  In the other - a KNIFE.  His face and chest red with

crimson, Stargher King fixes his eyes on Catherine with a

predator's stare.

Stargher King raises the blade toward the boy's throat and -

SNAP!  The strong arms of an adult Stargher breaks his arm at

the elbow.  Both the knife and boy are dropped to the ground

as Stargher King YOWLS like a stuck pig, the good arm

cradling the other.

Stargher King regards him with disgust.

MARTIN STARGHER'S VOICE comes from the belly of the beast.

Stargher and Stargher King square off.  The boy stands

between them with the knife at his feet.

the child picks up the blade and stands between them, looking

to Catherine for guidance.

In an almost dream-like motion, the child hands the blade to

adult Stargher.

And he DRIVES the thing into Stargher King's heart.  For a

brief moment, Martin's face is superimposed over Stargher

King's.  Stunned, he slumps and regards adult Stargher with

sad, troubled eyes.

Stargher TWISTS the handle of the blade and Martin/Stargher

King drops dead.   Dead.  Young Stargher smiles and hugs

Catherine.

The boy runs to adult Stargher who lifts the child into his

arms and holds him close.

She looks to adult Stargher and begins to understand.  He

descends into the pool, the boy resting his head on his

shoulder.

Man and boy disappear beneath the water's surface.  Catherine

stands and sees that Stargher King's body has vanished.

She walks to the shore and sees, deep underwater, Stargher

and little Carl floating lifelessly like women in the cell.

And FADE FROM VIEW.

She presses the sensor in her hand.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

IN THE CONTROL ROOM, Miriam is shocked by what she sees on

the monitors and looks at Stargher.

Catherine quietly returns to consciousness and is

automatically lowered.  She pulls the mask from her face,

rises and opens the door.  Miriam races inside and

desperately attempts to revive Stargher.  But it's no use.

Angry and stunned, she demands of Catherine.

But Catherine chooses not to.  She knows Carl Stargher will

never return to the world of the living.

INT. HELICOPTER - DAY

The chopper roars across the sky.  As they head northeast,

away from the urban and toward the rural, Novak gazes out the

window, trying to stay focused, fighting any after-effects of

the drugs.  The pilot communicates via headset.

EXT. STARGHER'S HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Cole and a handful of other agents pour into waiting

Suburbans.  (INTERCUT WITH NOVAK IN HELICOPTER).

INT. THE CELL - DAY

The water is near the ceiling.  Kicking her legs to keep

afloat, Julia DIGS with the ring and we see she has created a

gap between the light fixture housing and an unused PIPE

leading to the surface.  She pushes, but can't get anything

to move.  The opening will get no bigger.  Julia sucks the

last bit of oxygen and swims to the bottom of the cell.

Searching for something, she finds a juice box and pulls out

the drinking straw.

INT. CAMPBELL CENTER - LABORATORY

Shaken, but oddly transcendent, Catherine watches as

Stargher's body is wheeled out of the lab on a gurney.  She

comforts a whimpering Valentine and tells him...

INT. HELICOPTER

Novak scans the topography of FARMS below, listening to a new

report.

INT. SUBURBAN - DAY

Cole is the passenger, on the radio to Novak, A DRIVER next

to him, doing about a hundred down the Interstate, SIREN

blaring.

INTERCUT WITH NOVAK

Novak locates Delano on the map.

The pilot grins and pushes the copper to top speed.

INT. THE CELL - DAY

Julia is entirely underwater but alive.  She uses the straw

to suck oxygen through the gap in the ceiling, but it's

difficult to tread water and her lungs are aching.

INT. HELICOPTER

Novak uses binoculars to scan farmland.  He searches.  And

there it is: The abandoned farmhouse!

INT. THE CELL - DAY

Julia tries to hold herself up by pressing her arms and legs

against the walls, but as she does, the straw slips from her

mouth.  She reaches for it, but only succeeds in pushing it

away from her.  It heads for the drain.  And disappears.

EXT. ABANDONED FARM HOUSE

The helicopter lands and Novak jumps out.  He knows this is

the place.  He runs into the barn, but there's nothing, no

sign of her.  The pilot looks at him with a true sense of

loss.

INT. THE CELL - CONTINUOUS

As Julia desperately tires to find the straw through the tiny

holes of the drain, we see for the first time an expression

which tells us she's given up.  THUMP-THUMP-THUMP.  The cell

starts to vibrate.  A repetitive noise WHUP-WHUP-WHUP - comes

from above.  She swims to the top of the cell and POUNDS at

the ceiling.

EXT. ABANDONED FARM HOUSE

Fighting exhaustion and the side effects of the drugs, Novak

pushes on.  Think, Peter, think... His eyes find the WATER

TANKS and he SHOUTS at the helicopter.

As the motor dies, Novak listens and listens.  There it is.

Water pipes beneath his feet.  And very faintly, a pounding.

He follows the sound, searching the earth.  It's clearer now,

louder.  Novak tosses aside rusted junk and the pilot runs to

assist him.  Together, they expose the entrance to the

underground sanctuary.

INT. THE CELL - OBSERVATION ROOM

Novak drops to the floor below.  Instantly affected by the

similarities and the differences to the idealized cell of

Stargher's mind, he feels another wave of dizziness, but

pushes on.

And is hit hard by the sight of DROWNED JULIA, her motionless

body floating past him.  HER EYES OPEN and bubbles drift from

her nose and mouth.  Novak BANGS on the Plexiglas and calls

to her.

The thick Plexiglass still remains, but she now can see him.

Novak pulls his ID BADGE and smacks it against the glass.

He pulls his gun and takes aim.  Julia swims to the top of

the cell and presses herself against the ceiling.  BANG-BANG

BANG-BANG-BANG-BANG.  Novak fires a circle of shots into the

thick plastic.  Water slowly leaks, but the damn thing is

still solid.  He lifts the industrial VCR and RAMS it at the

bullet-damaged section.  CRACK! CRASH!  WATER POURS FROM THE

CELL.  Julia's body descends on the torrent of water.  Novak

reaches inside and pulls her to safety.  He's just about to

give her CPR when she coughs, sputters, and thirstily drinks

in oxygen.  Holding her tightly, Novak sinks to the floor,

the water from the cell spilling everywhere.

EXT. ABANDONED FARM HOUSE

Cole's Suburban leads a contingent of FBI vehicles and local

police cars onto the property, sirens blaring.

INT. THE CELL - DAY

Hearing the sirens, Novak relaxes.  For the first time in god

knows how long, he relaxes.  And holds Julia Hickson as if

his life depended on it.

FADE IN:

EXT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - DAY

Two cars parked outside.  An old, quirky Volvo and a Land

Rover.

INT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE - DAY

As a television plays THE WIZARD OF OZ, we find Catherine

watching the movie from the couch, sitting up, drinking a cup

of tea.  She looks rested and quite cute in gym shorts and a

T-shirt, her CAT sleeping next to her.  IN THE KITCHEN,

Miriam packs up her stethoscope and blood pressure monitor,

moves into the living room as Dorothy falls asleep in a field

of poppies...

Catherine nods, but she's more interested in the movie.

Miriam deposits prescription bottles onto a side table.

But she leaves them just the same.

The women exchange smiles and Miriam exits.

EXT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE

As Miriam walks to her Land Rover, she sees a government

issue Suburban park on the street and Peter Novak exit.

Novak opens the rear compartment of the Suburban and we hear

something moving inside.

Miriam's pager BEEPS and she hurries to her car.

Novak smiles, waves goodbye, and reaches into the Suburban.

INT. CATHERINE'S HOUSE

As Dorothy and her companions confront the Wizard, there's a

KNOCK at the screen door and Catherine sees Novak waiting.

Catherine cradles her cat.

He opens the door and escorts a leashed VALENTINE into the

living room.  Catherine's cat squirms from her arms and hides

under the couch.

Novak unleashes the albino Shepherd and he runs to Catherine,

licking her face, wagging his tail.

Valentine picks up the cat's scent and sniffs around the base

of the sofa.

Valentine settles on the floor.  Slowly, Abigail's curiosity

gets the best of her and she creeps out, sniffing the dog's

nose.  Patient and sweet, Valentine lies still, allowing the

cat to reach an acceptable level of comfort.

Amazingly, Abigail brushes up against the dog and purrs.

Catherine laughs.  She likes that.

It's painfully clear the thought of it still troubles her.

Novak doesn't push it.  He just takes her hand and gives it a

gentle squeeze.  The cat dashes into the kitchen and

Valentine follows.

He moves into the kitchen.  In a moment of quiet

introspection, Catherine looks at the television screen, at

Dorothy accidentally hitting the wicked Witch with a bucket

of water, causing her to melt.  And she looks away, unable to

watch, disturbed by the image.  She turns to the kitchen and

sees Novak feeding an appreciative dog and cat.  He rises and

returns to the living room.

He smiles and nods, gently resting his hand on her shoulder.

Catherine shuts her eyes and leans toward him, comforted by

simple human touch...

