FULL SCREEN PHOTOGRAPH Grainy but unmistakably a man and

woman making love. Photograph shakes. SOUND of a man MOANING

in anguish. The photograph is dropped, REVEALING ANOTHER,

MORE compromising one. Then another, and another. More moans.

INT. GITTES' OFFICE

CURLY drops the photos on Gittes' desk. Curly towers over

GITTES and sweats heavily through his workman's clothes, his

breathing progressively more labored. A drop plunks on Gittes'

shiny desk top.

Gittes notes it. A fan whiffs overhead. Gittes glances up at

it. He looks cool and brisk in a white linen suit despite

the heat. Never taking his eyes off Curly, he lights a

cigarette using a lighter with a "nail" on his desk.

Curly, with another anguished sob, turns and rams his fist

into the wall, kicking the wastebasket as he does. He starts

to sob again, slides along the wall where his fist has left

a noticeable dent and its impact has sent the signed photos

of several movie stars askew.

Curly slides on into the blinds and sinks to his knees. He

is weeping heavily now, and is in such pain that he actually

bites into the blinds.

Gittes doesn't move from his chair.

Curly responds slowly, rising to his feet, crying. Gittes

reaches into his desk and pulls out a shot glass, quickly

selects a cheaper bottle of bourbon from several fifths of

more expensive whiskeys.

Gittes pours a large shot. He shoves the glass across his

desk toward Curly.

Curly stares dumbly at it. Then picks it up, and drains it.

He sinks back into the chair opposite Gittes, begins to cry

quietly.

Gittes leaves the bottle with Curly.

INT. DUFFY & WALSH'S OFFICE

Noticeably less plush than Gitte's. A well-groomed, dark-

haired WOMAN sits nervously between their two desks, fiddling

with the veil on her pillbox hat.

There is the SOUND of ANOTHER MOAN coming from Gittes' Office.

Something made of glass shatters. The Woman grows more edgy.

INT. GITTES' OFFICE  GITTES & CURLY

Gittes and Curly stand in front of the desk, Gittes staring

contemptuously at the heavy breathing hulk towering over

him. Gittes takes a handkerchief and wipes away the plunk of

perspiration on his desk.

Gittes pounds the photos on the desk, shouting;

Curly shrinks back a little.

This seems to upset Curly even more.

INT. OFFICE RECEPTION

He's now walking him past SOPHIE who pointedly averts her

gaze. He opens the door where on the pebbled glass can be

read: "J. J. GITTES and Associates. DISCREET INVESTIGATION"

He throws an arm around Curly and flashes a dazzling smile.

He shuts the door on him and the smile disappears.

He shakes his head, starting to swear under his breath.

Gittes nods, walks on in.

INT. DUFFY AND WALSH'S OFFICE

Walsh rises when Gittes enters.

Gittes walks over to her and again flashes a warm, sympathetic

smile.

She holds her breath. The revelation isn't easy for her.

Gittes looks mildly shocked. He turns for confirmation to

his two partners.

Gittes pulls up a chair sitting next to Mrs. Mulwray between

Duffy and Walsh. Duffy cracks his gum.

Gittes gives him an irritated glance. Duffy stops chewing.

Mrs. Mulwray hesitates. She seems uncommonly nervous at the

question.

Gittes sighs.

Her intensity is genuine. Gittes looks to his two partners.

Mrs. Mulwray nods, almost shyly. Gittes is now casually but

carefully checking out the detailing of Mrs. Mulwray's dress

Gittes' glance tells Duffy Gittes wants to do the questioning.

Mrs. Mulwray nods.

Gittes sighs.

EXT. CITY HALL  MORNING

Already shimmering with heat.

A drunk blows his nose with his fingers into the fountain at

the foot of the steps.

Gittes, impeccably dressed, passes the drunk on the way up

the stairs.

INT. COUNCIL CHAMBERS

Former Mayor SAM BAGBY is speaking. Behind him is a huge

map, with overleafs and bold lettering:

Some of the councilmen are reading funny papers and gossip

columns while Bagby is speaking.

CLOSE  GITTES

sitting next to some grubby farmers, bored. He yawns, edges

away from one of the dirtier farmers.

AUDIENCE  COUNCIL CHAMBERS

An amalgam of farmers, businessmen, and city employees have

been listening with keen interest. A couple of the farmers

applaud.

Somebody shooshes them.

COUNCIL COMMITTEE

In a whispered conference.

REACTION  GITTES

Looking up with interest from his racing form.

MULWRAY

Walks to the huge map with overleafs. He is a slender man in

his sixties, who wears glasses and moves with surprising

fluidity. He turns to a smaller, younger man, and nods. The

man turns the overleaf on the map.

Mulwray leaves the overleaf board and sits down. Suddenly

there are some whoops and hollers from the rear of the

chambers and a redfaced FARMER drives in several scrawny,

bleating sheep. Naturally, they cause a commotion.

Bailiffs and sergeants-at-arms respond to the imprecations

of the Council and attempt to capture the sheep and the

farmers, having to restrain one who looks like he's going to

bodily attack Mulwray.

L.A. RIVERBED  LONG SHOT

It's virtually empty. Sun blazes off it's ugly concrete banks.

Where the banks are earthen, they are parched and choked

with weeds.

After a moment, Mulwray's car pulls INTO VIEW on a flood

control road about fifteen feet above the riverbed. Mulwray

gets out of the car. Me looks around.

WITH GITTES

Holding a pair of binoculars, downstream and just above the

flood control road using some dried mustard weeds for cover.

He watches while Mulwray makes his way down to the center of

the riverbed.

There Mulwray stops, tuns slowly, appears to be looking at

the bottom of the riverbed, or at nothing at all.

GITTES

Trains the binoculars on him. Sun glints off Mulwray's

glasses.

BELOW GITTES

There's the SOUND of something like champagne corks popping.

Then a small Mexican boy atop a swayback horse rides it into

the riverbed, and into Gitte's view.

MULWRAY

Himself stops, stands still when he hears the sound. Power

lines and the sun are overhead, the trickle of brackish water

at his feet.

He moves swiftly downstream in the direction of the sound,

toward Gittes.

GITTES

Moves a little further back as Mulwray rounds the bend in

the river and comes face to face with the Mexican boy on the

muddy banks.

Mulwray says something to the boy.

The boy doesn't answer at first. Mulwray points to the ground.

The boy gestures. Mulwray frowns. He kneels down in the mud

and stares at it. He seems to be concentrating on it.

After a moment, he rises, thanks the boy and heads swiftly

back upstream  scrambling up the bank to his car.

There he reaches through the window and pulls out a roll of

blueprints or something like them. He spreads them on the

hood of his car and begins to scribble some notes, looking

downstream from time to time.

The power lines overhead HUM.

He stops, listens to them then rolls up the plans and gets

back in the car. He drives off.

GITTES

Hurries to get back to his car. He gets in and gets right

back out.

The steamy leather burns him. He takes a towel from the back

seat and carefully places it on the front one. He gets in

and takes off.

POINT FERMIN PARK  DUSK

Street lights go on.

MULWRAY

Pulls up, parks. Hurries out of the car, across the park

lawn and into the shade of some trees and buildings.

GITTES

Pulls up, moves across the park at a different angle, but in

the direction Mulwray had gone. He makes it through the trees

in time to see Mulwray scramble adroitly down the side of

the cliff to the beach below. Be seems in a hurry. Gittes

moves after him, having a little more difficulty negotiating

the climb than Mulwray did.

DOWN ON THE BEACH

Gittes looks to his right where the bay is a long, clear

crescent.

He looks to his left. There's a promontory of sorts. It's

apparent Mulwray has gone that way. Gittes hesitates, then

moves in that direction but climbs along the promontory in

order to be above Mulwray.

AT THE OUTFALL

Gittes spots Mulwray just below him, kicking at the sand.

Mulwray picks up a starfish. Brushes the sand off it. Looks

absently up toward Gittes.

GITTES

Backs away, sits near the outfall, yawns.

BEACON LIGHT AT POINT FERMIN

Flashing in the dust.

CLOSE  GITTES

Sitting, suddenly starts. He swears softly. He's in a puddle

of water and the seat of his trousers is wet.

MULWRAY

Below him in watching the water trickling down from the

outfall near Gittes.

Mulwray stands and stares at the water, apparently fascinated.

Even as Gittes watches Mulwray watching, the volume and

velocity seem to increase until it gushes in spurts, cascading

into the sea, whipping it into a foam.

AT THE STREET  GITTES' CAR

There's a slip of paper stuck under the windshield wiper.

Gittes pulls it off, gets in the car and turns on the dash

light. It says:

"SAVE OUR CITY! LOS ANGELES IS DYING OF THIRST! PROTECT YOUR

PROPERTY! LOS ANGELES IS YOUR INVESTMENT IN THE FUTURE!!!

VOTE YES NOVEMBER 6... CITIZENS COMMITTEE TO SAVE OUR CITY,

HON. SAM BAGBY, FORMER MAYOR  CHAIRMAN." Gittes grumbles,

crumples it up and tosses it out the window. He notices other

flyers parked on a couple of cars down the street.

Gittes reaches down and opens his glove compartment.

INT. GLOVE COMPARTMENT

Consists of a small mountain of Ingersoll pocket watches.

The cheap price tags are still on them. Gittes pulls out

one.

He absently winds it, checks the time with his own watch.

It's 9:37 as he walks to Mulwray's car and places it behind

the front wheel of Mulwray's car. He yawns again and heads

back to his own car.

GITTES

Arrives whistling, opens the door with "J.J. GITTES AND

ASSOCIATES  DISCREET INVESTIGATION" on it.

Sophie hands him a small pile of messages. He goes through

them.

Gittes walks through his office to Duffy and Walsh's. A little

red light is on in the corner, over a closed door. Gittes

walks over and knocks on the door.

INT. DUFFY & WALSH'S OFFICE  GITTES

Gittes walks to his office.

ON HIS DESK

Is the Ingersoll watch, the crystal broken, the hands stopped

at 2:47.

Gittes drops it, sits down. Walsh comes in carrying a series

of wet photos stuck with clothes pins onto a small blackboard.

Walsh shows him the photos. He looks at them. They are a

series outside a restaurant showing Mulwray with another man

whose appearance is striking. In two of the photos a gnarled

cane is visible.

INT. GITTES' OFFICE

Gittes tosses down the photos in disgust.

The PHONE has been RINGING. Sophie buzzes him.

Duffy's VOICE can be HEARD, excitedly. "I got it. I got it.

He's found himself some cute little twist in a rowboat, in

Echo Park."

WESTLAKE PARK (MCARTHUR PARK)

Duffy is rowing, Gittes seated in the stern.

They pass Mulwray and a slender blonde girl in a summer print

dress, drifting in their rowboat, Mulwray fondly doting on

the girl.

He shoots past Duffy, expertly running off a couple of fast

shots.

Mulwray and the girl seem blissfully unaware of them.

DUFFY

Turns again and they row past Mulwray and the girl, Gittes

again clicking off several fast shots.

CLOSE SHOT  SIGN:

MOVE ALONG the red tiled roof and down to a lower level of

the roof where Gittes' feet are hooked over the apex of the

roof and Gittes himself is stretched face downward on the

tiles, pointing himself and his camera to a veranda below

him where the girl and Mulwray are eating. Gittes is clicking

off more shots when the tiles his feet are hooked over come

loose.

Gittes begins a slow slide down the tile to the edge of the

roof and possibly over it to a three-story drop. He tries to

slow himself down. The loose tile also begins to slide.

Gittes stops himself at the roof's edge by the storm drain

and begins a very precarious turn, this time hooking his

feet in the drain itself. The loose tile falls and hits the

veranda below. He stops as it's about to slide over the edge.

He carefully lays it in the drain. But a fragment off the

cracked edge of the tile falls.

WITH MULWRAY AND THE GIRL

Mulwray staring at the fragment at his feet. He looks to the

girl.

He's clearly concerned. He rises, looks up to the roof.

FROM HIS POV

The roof and the sign topping it betray nothing. He slowly

sits back down, staring at the tile fragment.

CLOSE SHOT  NEWSPAPER "DEPARTMENT OF WATER AND POWER BLOWS

FUSE OVER CHIEF'S USE OF FUNDS FOR EL MACANDO LOVE NEST."

In the style of the Hearst yellow press, there is a heart-

shaped drawing around one of the photos that Gittes had taken.

Next to it is a smaller column, "J.J. Gittes hired by

suspicious spouse."

INT. BARBERSHOP  GITTES

Holds the paper and reads while getting his haircut and his

shoes shined. In fact, almost all the customers are reading

papers.

A self-satisfied smile comes to Gittes' face.

In b.g., customers can be OVERHEARD talking about the drought.

Interspersed with above, someone is saying, "They're gonna

start rationing water unless it rains." Someone else says,

"Only for washing your cars." Third says, "You're not going

to be able to water your lawn either, or take a bath more

than once a week." First says, "If you don't have a lawn or

a car, do you get an extra bath?"

Gittes has been staring outside the barbershop. A car is

stalled.

The hood is up. A man watches his radiator boiling over.

Gittes has heard the word. He straightens up.

Gittes laughs.

Gittes gets out of the chair. Barney, a little concerned,

tries to restrain him, holding onto the barber sheet around

Gittes' neck.

Gittes is trying to take off his sheet.

The Customer is shrinking back into the chair.

Gittes allows himself to be tugged back to his chair.

INT. GITTES' OFFICE

Gittes comes bursting in, slapping a newspapers on his thigh.

Walsh comes out of his office, Duffy out of the other one.

She gets up and leaves.

A stunning YOUNG WOMAN appears behind Gittes in his doorway.

She's shortly joined by a small, GRAY-HAIRED MAN. They listen,

unseen by Gittes.

Gittes hangs onto Sophie's desk laughing his ass off. The

little Gray-Haired Man winces. When Gittes looks up he sees

the Young Woman, apparently in her late twenties. She's so

stunning that Gittes nearly gasps.

Gittes is staggered. He glances down at the newspaper.

She's walked past him toward the door. He stop her.

Evelyn flashes a cold smile.

Evelyn starts out the door and Gittes starts after her. This

time he's stopped by the Gray-Haired Man who has also come

out of his office and up behind him.

Gittes turns to be handed a thick sheaf of papers, a summons

and complaint. Evelyn walks out the door.

Gittes stares down at the papers in his hand.

INT. GITTES' INNER OFFICE  GITTES, DUFFY & WALSH

On Gittes' desk. There are empty coffee cups, the summons

and complaint, and the newspaper Gittes had brought with him

from the barber shop.

The three men are sitting, worn and silent. Walsh chewing

gum is the loudest noise in the room.

Gittes looks to Walsh with obvious irritation. Walsh stops

chewing.

Duffy puts out a cigarette in the dregs of one of the coffee

cups.

Gittes is staring down at the newspaper. He suddenly grabs

the phone, begins dialing. A tight little smile breaks out

on his face.

He buzzes Sophie.

Sophie BUZZES.

He hangs up.

INT. DEPARTMENT WATER & POWER  HALL

Gittes stops outside a door marked:

He enters an outer office. The SECRETARY looks surprised.

Without waiting for a response, he does. The Secretary half

rises in protest but Gittes is through the inner door.

MULWRAY'S INNER OFFICE

The walls are covered with commendation, photos of Mulwray

at various construction sites, large maps of watershed areas

and reservoirs in the city. On the desk is a framed, tinted

photo of Evelyn in riding clothes.

Gittes moves to the desk, watching the translucent pane in

the upper half of the door leading to the outer office as he

does.

He begins to open and close the desk drawers after quickly

examining the top. He tries one of the drawers and it doesn't

open.

He reopens the top drawer, and the bottom one opens.

He looks in it, pulls out a checkbook. He opens it, riffles

through the stubs like he was shuffling cards. Drops it,

finds a set of keys, an old phone book, and a menu from a

Water Department lunch at the Biltmore Hotel in 1913. Then,

He flips through them, reads one notation in Mulwray's neat

hand:

Gittes spots a shadow looming in front of the translucent

pane. He quickly tosses item after item back, kneeing the

drawer, nearly knocking a spare pair of Mulwray's glasses

off the desk top when he does. He catches them, puts them on

the desk and is pacing the room as the door opens.

RUSS YELBURTON

Enters the room. An anxious Secretary is right behind him.

This is more a request than an invitation. Gittes nods,

follows Yelburton out, through the outer office to his offices

down the hall.

INT. YELBURTON OFFICE

Smaller than Mulwray's, he has most noticeably a lacquered

marlin mounted on the wall. There are a couple of other

pictures of Yelburton with yellowtail and other fish he's

standing beside.

There's also a small burgee of a fish with the initials A.C.

below it, tacked onto the wall.

Gittes winks. Yelburton chuckles appreciatively, loosening

up a little.

Gittes spots a card tray on Yelburton's desk.

Gittes fishes a couple off the tray, puts them in his

handkerchief pocket. He goes out the door, nearly running

into a man who is standing by the Secretary's desk, about

GITTES' age only a head taller and a foot wider, dressed in

a plain suit that fits him about as well as a brown paper

bag.

OUTER OFFICE  YELBURTON, MULVIHILL AND GITTES

Mulvihill stares at Gittes with unblinking eyes, remains by

the desk.

Mulvihill moves toward Gittes, shaking with fury. Yelburton

steps between them.

EXT. MULWRAY HOUSE  GITTES

Rings the bell. He waits.

A powerful CHINESE BUTLER with heavy hair and a half-jacket

of gold on one front tooth, answers the door.

He hands the Chinese Butler a card from his wallet. The Butler

takes it and disappears, leaving Gittes standing in the

doorway.

Gittes stands, and sweats, watching a Japanese GARDENER trim

a hedge. There's a SQUEAKING SOUND. Gittes moves a few feet

off the porch.

POV  GARAGE

A chauffeur is washing down a cream-colored Packard with a

chamois.

Steam rises off the hood. The squeaking has obviously come

from the chamois.

CHINESE BUTLER

In doorway.

Gittes looks behind him. The Chinese Butler is gesturing for

him to follow.

THROUGH THE HOUSE  GITTES

Follows him, trying to check out the rooms as he goes. A

maid is cleaning in the den. They pass through it out some

French doors along a trellised walkway to a large pond with

running water.

Gittes is left standing by the pond. It's suddenly very quiet

except for the runnning water. The pond is over-flowing.

After a moment, the Gardener comes running back. He smiles

at Gittes, probes into the pond.

There's something gleaming in the bottom of it. Gittes notes

it.

After a moment, the Gardener drops the long probe, the waters

recede.

EXT. POND  GITTES AND JAPANESE GARDENER  DAY

The Gardener nods, and is off, leaving Gittes staring at the

object in the bottom of the pond that is gleaming.

He looks at the tool the Gardener was using, hesitates, picks

it up and starts to probe into the pond himself, toward the

gleaming object.

He then spots Evelyn rounding a turn, coming down the

trellised pathway. He casually belts the probe, holds onto

it for poise.

Evelyn is wearing jeans that are lathered white on the inside

of the thighs and laced with brown horsehair.

She's wearing riding boots, is perspiring a little, but looks

younger than she did in the office.

Gittes is a little taken aback at seeing Evelyn. He is annoyed

as well. Nevertheless, he is elaborately polite.

He laughs. a little nervously. He waits for a reply. There

is none.

The Chinese Butler appears on the veranda.

Chinese Butler nods, disappears

EXT. POND AND GARDEN  MULWRAY HOUSE  DAY

Evelyn sits at a glass-topped table. Gittes Joins her.

He waits for a response. Then:

The iced tea comes on a tray which Ramon sets down between

them.

Evelyn looks up. Gittes smiles a little sheepishly.

Again he laughs a little nervously. Again no reaction.

Evelyn brushes lightly at the horsehair on her Jeans.

Gittes nods.

EXT. OAK PASS RESERVOIR  DAY

Gittes drives up a winding road, following a flood channel

up into the parched hills.

TWO FIRE TRUCKS

One a rescue truck, are at the entrance to the reservoir.

The chain link fence with its KEEP OUT sign is open and there

are people milling around. The reservoir is below.

Gittes' car is stopped by a couple of UNIFORMED POLICE.

Gittes hesitates only a moment, then:

He fishes out one of Yelburton's cards from his handkerchief

pocket, hands it to the Guard.

Gittes drives past the Guards, through the gate, along the

reservoir. He spots a police car and an unmarked one as well.

Gittes stops and gets out of the car. Several men with their

backs turned, one talking quietly, staring down into the

reservoir where other men in small skiffs are apparently

dredging for something.

One of the men turns and sees Gittes. He recognizes Gittes

and is visibly shocked.

EXT. RESERVOIR  DAY

Loach tries to ease him down the path.

At the sound of his raised voice, a man standing at the edge

of the channel, talking to two boys in swimming trunks, turns

around. He's a tall, sleek Mexican in his early thirties,

LUIS ESCOBAR.

Both Gittes and Escobar register considerable surprise at

seeing one another. The men around them are extremely uneasy.

Loach is actually sweating. Finally, Escobar smiles.

Gittes reaches into his pocket, pulls out his cigarette case.

Escobar nods. They walk a couple of steps. The other police,

two plainclothesmen and a uniformed officer, watch them.

It's apparent Gittes is impressed despite himself.

Escobar points down to the reservoir. A couple of men using

poles with hooks are fishing about in the water. It can be

SEEN that one of them has hooked something.

He shouts. The other man hooks it, too. They pull, revealing

the soaking back of a man's coat. They start to pull the

body into the skiff.

INT. CORONER'S OFFICE  EVELYN AND ESCOBAR

Are standing over the body of Mulwray. Escobar has the sheet

drawn back. Evelyn nods.

Escobar drops the sheet. Escobar and Evelyn move a few feet

to one side and whisper, almost as though they were trying

to keep the corpse from hearing them.

Evelyn nods slightly Escobar coughs. A coroner's assistant

wheels the body out of the office.

OUTSIDE THE CORONER'S

Gittes has been sitting on a wooden bench, smoking and

listening. At this question, he rises and looks through the

doorway.

Escobar sees him, ignores him. Evelyn doesn't see him.

Evelyn shows a flash of annoyance.

Escobar and Evelyn move slowly toward the door.

Evelyn looks up to see Gittes standing in the doorway only a

foot or two from her. She stops cold. They look at one another

for a long moment.

She finishes, looks plaintively at Gittes. Escobar is right

at her back. Gittes says nothing.

Evelyn looks at Escobar but doesn't know how to answer him.

Escobar nods. They begin to walk slowly, again have to move

out of the way as some other corpse is being wheeled out of

one of the Coroner cubicles.

They have walked a few steps further down the hall.

ESCOBAR'S POV

Evelyn glances at Gittes. They go through a couple of outer

doors and pass several reporters who have been in the outer

hall, laughing, kidding, the tag end of lines like "only in

L.A." and "Southern Cafeteria."

Gittes hurries her past the reporters who flank them, asking

questions. Gittes brushes them aside.

EVELYN AND GITTES  AT HER CAR

In a small parking lot.

Evelyn fumbles in her bag, looking feverishly for something

in her purse.

She glances down, leans against the side of the car.

Evelyn gets in her car.

She drives off, leaving Gittes gaping.

INT. CORONER'S OFFICE HALLWAY

Escobar shrugs.

Escobar looks up.

Resume walking.

Gittes laughs.

Escobar stops.

Gittes nods, turns, and walks down the hall.

OUTSIDE MORGUE

Gittes stops by a body on the table, the toe tagged with

Mulwray's name. MORTY is standing near it in a doorway to an

adjoining room. A RADIO is on, and with it the announcement

that they're about to hear another chapter in the life of

Lorenzo Jones and his devoted wife, Belle. Another Coroner's

assistant sits at the table, listening to the radio and eating

a sandwich.

Gittes ambles into the room.

Gittes picks up the sheet and pulls it back. CAMERA GETS ITS

FIRST GLIMPSE of Mulwray's body. Eyes open, the face badly

cut and bruised.

Morty is wheeling in another body with the help of an

assistant.

As he begins to move the body into the refrigerator, he breaks

into a wrenching spasm of coughing. Gittes spots the other

body, lowers the sheet on Mulwray.

Morty pulls back the sheet.

Morty brushes some sand from the man's face, laughs.

Gittes has already lost interest. He starts away.

This stops Gittes.

Gittes has moved back to the body, looks at it more closely.

Morty shrugs.

Gittes walks away mumbling.

EXT. SUNSET BOULEVARD  GITTES  DAY

He's parked on an overpass. The sign HOLLENBECK BRIDGE on

one of its concrete columns. Gittes looks down into the

riverbed below.

FROM THE BRIDGE

Gittes can see the muddy remains of a collapsed shack, its

contents strewn down river from the bridge. Below him, lying

half over the storm drain and one wall that was on the bank

of the river is a sign that proclaims "OWN YOUR OWN OFFICE

IN THIS BUILDING $5000 to $6000" which was used as a roof of

sorts. Downstream, there's the dresser, an oil drum, a Ford

seat cushion, an Armour lard can, etc. The trashy remains of

Shuhardt's home.

Gittes scrambles down the embankment and as he lands near

the storm drain one shoe sinks, ankle deep into mud. Gittes

pulls it out, swearing.

He begins to walk a little further downstream when he hears

the vaguely familiar SQUISHY CLOP of something.

Clearing the bridge on the opposite side is the little Mexican

Boy, again on his swayback horse, riding along the muddy

bank.

They look at one another a moment.

The Boy doesn't answer.

The Boy nods.

The shadows of the two are very long now.

Gittes nods. The horse snorts. The Boy rides slowly on.

EXT. RIVERBED  DUSK

Gittes scrambles up the embankment to note the direction the

storm drain by Hollenbeck Bridge takes. It is headed above

toward the Hollywood Hills, where the sun is setting.

EXT. GITTES IN CAR  NIGHTFALL

Winding his way up a section of the Hollywood Hills. He picks

up on an open flood channel with the spotlight by the driver's

windwing.

GITTES IN CAR  MOVING

Along the flood channel. It is dark now and Gittes follows

the channel with the car spotlight. He turns at a fork in

the road which allows him to continue following the flood

channel.

FURTHER UP  MOVING

The road is narrower. Gittes drives more slowly. Foliage is

overgrown in the channel so its bottom cannot be glimpsed.

STILL FURTHER  NIGHT

The road is dirt. Heavy clusters of oak trees and eucalyptus

are everywhere. It is very still. Another turn and a pie-

shaped view of a lake of lights in the city below can be

GLIMPSED.

POV  CHAIN-LINK FENCE

Over the road, bolted. It says "OAK PASS RESERVOIR. KEEP

OUT. NO TRESPASSING."

The chain-link itself actually extends over the flood channel

and down into it, making access along the channel itself

impossible.

Gittes backs up, turns off the motor, the car lights, the

spotlight.

A lone light overhead on tension wires is the sole

illumination.

There is only the eerie SOUND of the tension WIRES HUMMING.

Gittes gets out of the car, clubs the fence near the Flood

channel itself.

ON THE OTHER SIDE

Gittes carefully works his way up through the thick Foliage

toward a second and large chain-link fence. Lights from the

reservoir still higher above can be SEEN.

Suddenly there is a GUNSHOT. Then ANOTHER. Gittes dives into

the flood control channel, which is at this point about four

feet deep and six feet wide. There is the SOUND of men

scurrying through the brush, coming near him, then retreating.

Gittes loses himself among the ivy in the channel.

He waits. The men seem to have passed him by. But there is

another SOUND now. An echoing growing sound. It puzzles

Gittes. He starts to lift his head to catch the direction.

GITTES IN FLOOD CONTROL CHANNEL  NIGHT

Then he's inundated with a rush of water which pours over

him, knocks off his hat, carries him down the channel, banging

into its banks, as he desperately tries to grab some of the

overgrowth to hang on and pull himself out. But the force of

the stream batters him and carries him with it until he's

brought rudely to the chainlink fence. It stops him cold.

He's nearly strained through it.

Swearing and choking, he pulls himself out of the rushing

water by means of the fence itself.

Drenched, battered, he slowly climbs back over the fence and

makes his way toward his car.

AT GITTES' CAR

He fishes for his car keys, looks down. One shoe is missing.

He starts to get into his car but Mulvihill and a SMALLER

MAN stop him. Mulvihill pulling his coat down and pinning

his arms, holding him tightly. The smaller man thrusts a

switchblade knife about an inch and a half up Gittes' left

nostril.

CLOSE  GITTES

Frozen, the knife in his nostril, the street lamp overhead

gleaming on the silvery blade.

The Smaller Man actually seems to be trembling with rage

when he says this. Gittes doesn't move.

With a quick flick the Smaller Man pulls back on the blade,

laying Gittes' left nostril open about an inch further. Gittes

screams.

Blood gushes down onto his shirt and coat.

Gittes bends over, instinctively trying to keep the blood

from getting on his clothes. Mulvihill and the Smaller Man

stare at him.

EXT. OAK PASS RESERVOIR  NIGHT

Gittes is now groveling on his hands and knees.

Gittes on the ground can see only his tormentor's two-tone

brown and white wing-tipped shoes, lightly freckled with his

blood.

THE SHOE

Comes up and lightly shoves Gittes into the ground. The SOUND

of FOOTSTEPS RETREATING, Gittes gasping.

INT. GITTES' OFFICE  GITTES

Sits behind his desk, BACK TO CAMERA, not moving. Duffy sits

staring at nothing, Walsh moves uneasily around the room.

The PHONE is RINGING. Sophie BUZZES.

NEW ANGLE  REVEALING

A bandage spread-eagled across Gittes' nose.

Gittes turns slowly to Walsh. He lightly taps his nose.

Gittes looks irritated. The PHONE RINGS again.

Gittes picks up the phone. He winks to his boys.

Walsh promptly starts to tell Duffy the Admiral Byrd story.

Walsh has finished off the punch line and both men are

laughing raucously. Gittes drops the mail he's been loafing

through and puts his hand over the receiver.

She hangs up. Gittes looks to his two men.

INT. BROWN DERBY  CLOSE ON NEWSPAPER

Gittes is seated, flips through the paper until he finds the

OBITUARY COLUMN, scans it, looks up, abruptly tears the column

from the paper and puts it in his pocket.

When he closes the paper we can SEE headlines in the left

hand column: "WATER BOND ISSUE PASSES COUNCIL". Ten million

dollar referendum to go before the public.

Evelyn Mulwray is standing at the table as he does so. He

rises, allows her to sit.

CLOSE ON EVELYN

Gittes watches her as she removes her gloves slowly... She's

wearing dove gray gabardine, subdued, tailored.

The waiter's appeared. Evelyn is looking at Gittes' nose.

Evelyn looks down and smoothes her gloves. When she looks

back up she stares expectantly at Gittes.

Gittes pulls out a torn envelope. The initials ECM can be

SEEN in a delicate scroll on the corner of it.

Gittes' fingers the envelope. He coughs.

CLOSE ON EVELYN

The drinks come. The waiter sets them down.

Gittes smiles.

Evelyn remains unperturbed.

Evelyn nods.

Evelyn for the first time appears a little embarrassed.

Gittes looks significantly to Evelyn.

Evelyn doesn't reply.

Evelyn is clearly angry but she is controlling it.

This subdues Gittes a little. Evelyn is still a little heated.

Evelyn looks squarely at him. She doesn't deny it.

Gittes nods.

He's been fingering the envelope...

Evelyn turns into Gittes.

Gittes suddenly turns sharply in to Evelyn.

Evelyn involuntarily draws back.

Evelyn reluctantly allows Gittes to move closer and dangle

his hand in front of their faces. She stares at him.

Evelyn actually smiles a little.

Gittes looks up and flashes his smile.

MRS. MATCH is swaying over the table, a plump woman with a

glass of whiskey in one hand, a large purse in the other,

and a menacing look in her eye.

Gittes turns back to Evelyn.

She tries to take a swipe at Gittes with her purse. Gittes

covers himself. Waiters rush over.

Mrs. Match swings at Gittes again and again. She catches him

on the nose. It hurts. He covers it, then swings his leg out

from under the table and deftly kicks her in the shin.

Mrs. Match drops her purse and spills her drink. She grabs

her shin, hopping around a little. The waiters who had tried

to restrain her now try to keep her from falling over.

They rise and move toward the door.

Gittes looks, sees she's kidding, and nods.

OUTSIDE IN THE PARKING LOT  DUSK

Gittes' car has been brought by the parking attendant. The

attendant opens the passenger side for Evelyn.

The attendant starts after it again. Gittes leans on the

open door of his car and in to Evelyn. He talks quietly but

spits it out.

Evelyn steadies herself on the open car door. She stares at

Gittes for a long moment. Then he gently tugs the car door

closed.

He drives off into the Wilshire traffic, leaving Evelyn

looking after him.

INT. DWP  MULWRAY'S OFFICE DOOR

WITH ITS LETTERING:

Gittes goes through the door to the Secretary. She looks up.

She recognizes Gittes again and is not happy to see him.

The Secretary immediately gets up and goes into the inner

office.

Gittes turns and strolls around the office a moment. He sees

a photographic display of "THE HISTORY OF THE DWP. THE EARLY

YEARS", along the wall. He stops as he spots a photo of the

man with the cane Gittes had seen photos of earlier. He is

standing high in the mountains, near a pass. The caption

reads "JULIAN CROSS. 1905".

Cross is strikingly handsome.

Gittes immediately pulls out the envelope containing Evelyn's

check. He looks at the corner of it, his thumb pressing down

under the middle initial C, then he looks back to the photos.

The Secretary returns.

Gittes pulls out a cigarette case, offers the Secretary one.

She refuses. He lights up and begins to hum 'The Way You

Look Tonight,' strolling along the wall looking at more

photographs.

INT. MULWRAY'S OFFICES

Here he spots several photos of a much younger Mulwray, along

with Julian Cross. One of the captions: "HOLLIS MULWRAY AND

JULIAN CROSS AS THE AQUEDUCT CLEARS THE SANTA SUSANNAH PASS.

1912".

Gittes, still humming, turns to the Secretary.

Gittes is genuinely surprised at this.

She gets up, annoyed, and goes into Yelburton's inner office.

Gittes goes back to the photographs. He hears a SCRATCHING

SOUND, apparently coming from just outside the outer door.

He moves quickly to it, hesitates, swiftly opens the door.

Workmen are behind it, scraping away Mulwray's name on the

outer door, looking up at Gittes in some surprise.

The Secretary returns, sees the workman on the floor.

Gittes nods graciously, heads on into Yelburton's office.

INT. DWP  YELBURTON & GITTES

There is a subtle but perceptible difference in Yelburton's

attitude. He's now head of the department.

Gittes heads toward the door.

Gittes nods.

Gittes smiles, leaves an unsmiling Yelburton.

INT. GITTES OFFICE

Gittes enters, drops his hat on Sophie's desk. Sophie tries

to tell him something but Gittes goes on into his office.

EVELYN MULWRAY

Is sitting, smoking. She looks up when he enters.

Gittes moves to his desk, barely breaking stride at the sight

of her.

He's sitting now. Evelyn is very pale now, obviously very

shaken.

Gittes buzzes Sophie.

Evelyn nearly jumps at the question.

Evelyn nods. She lights another cigarette.

She quickly stubs one out.

Sophie comes in with the form, cutting off Evelyn's reply.

Gittes places two copies on a coffee table in front of Evelyn.

She signs it. When she looks back up, Gittes is staring

intently at her.

INT. SEAPLANE

The engines make the small cabin vibrate. Gittes threads his

way down the tiny aisle of the eight passenger cabin, which

is full of middle-aged men in old clothes and their fishing

gear. Gittes is poked by a pole, has to move along.

One of the old men says something to him.

Gittes moves forward into the cockpit, the PILOT looks up

nods for Gittes to sit down, first moving a half eaten cheese

sandwich out of Gittes' seat.

EXT. HARBOR - SEAPLANE

Taxiing down the ramp into the sea. In a moment, it kicks up

a spray of foam and takes off.

INT. COCKPIT

The island gradually looming larger before the Pilot and

Gittes.

The Pilot glances over at Gittes who, as usual, is impeccably

dressed. A contrast to the others on the plane.

Gittes shakes his head.

The Pilot laughs raucously. Gittes laughs politely.

He gives a sidelong glance to Gittes, a little concerned

he's said too much.

Both men laugh a little lewdly.

ALBACORE CLUB  DAY

A pleasant but unobtrusive clapboard blue and white building

on the bay overlooking the harbor. The seaplane lands. A

motor launch with a burgee of a fish flying from it turns

and heads in the direction of the plane.

EXT. WINDING ROAD  RANCHO DEL CRUCE

Gittes, driven in a station wagon, passes under the sign

with a cross painted below the name.

The ranch itself is only partially in a valley on the island.

As the wagon continues one can SEE that it is actually a

miniature California, encompassing desert, mountains and

canyon that tumble down palisades to the windward side of

the sea.

The wagon comes to a halt where a group of hands are clustered

around a corral. The circle of men drift apart, leaving JULIAN

CROSS standing, using a cane for support, reedy but handsome

in a rough linen shirt and jeans. When he talks his strong

face is lively, in repose it looks ravaged.

EXT. BRIDLE PATH  GITTES & CROSS

Walking toward the main house. A classic Monterey. A horse

led on a halter by another ranch hand slows down and defecates

in the center of the path they are taking. Gittes doesn't

notice.

Gittes pauses, not certain he has heard correctly.

Cross pauses when they reach the dung pile. He removes his

hat and waves it, inhales deeply.

Gittes glances down out of politeness.

Cross walks on. Gittes follows.

They move on.

EXT. COURTYARD VERANDA  GITTES & CROSS AT BREAKFAST

Below them is a corral where hands take Arabians, one by

one, and work them out, letting them run and literally kick

up their heels.

Cross' attention is diverted by the animals from time to

time. An impeccable Mexican butler serves them their main

course, broiled fish.

Cross is visibly surprised.

Cross nods.

Gittes glances down at the fish whose isinglass eye is glazed

over with the heat of cooking.

Gittes laughs.

This stops Gittes. He seems faintly mused by it.

Gittes shrugs.

Cross starts to reply, then there's the SOUND of a MARIACHI

BAND and some men in formation clear a bluff about a hundred

yards off. They are dressed like Spanish dons on horseback.

For the most part they are fat in the saddle and pass along

in disordered review to the music.

Cross shakes his head.

Cross looks to Gittes in some real surprise.

Cross looks hatefully at Gittes.

INT. HALL OF RECORDS  DAY

Dark and quiet except for the whirring of fans. Gittes

approaches one of the CLERKS at a desk.

The Clerk's droopy eyes widen a little.

Which is a snotty remark. Gittes smiles.

The Clerk turns away abruptly. Gittes regards his back a

moment, then goes to the stacks.

THROUGH THE STACKS

Gittes sees the Clerk turn to another, say something. The

second clerk gets on the phone. Gittes watches a moment,

then swiftly turns his attention to the stacks.

He hauls down the northwest valley volume, opens it. It's

huge and there's a lot to go through.

The print itself makes him squint.

INSERT PAGE

Showing TRACT, LOT, PARCEL, even a METES AND BOUNDS

designation where the description of the land parcel is long

and hopelessly involved e.g. '6000 paces to Rio Seco, thence

7000 paces to Loma Linda, etc.' These descriptions are old

and faded. In the owners' column, however there are numerous

freshly typed names pasted over the prior owners.

The Clerk turns sharply around.

Gittes looks a little surprised.

The exasperated Clerk reaches around, rummages, slaps a ruler

on the desk.

Gittes goes back to the stacks with the ruler. He opens the

book, places the ruler not horizontally but vertically.

INSERT PLAT BOOK NORTHWEST VALLEY

Beside the OWNER column he places the ruler, looks toward

the clerks, then swiftly rips down the page, tearing out a

strip about two inches wide containing the owner's name and

property description. As he tears, he either sniffles or

coughs to cover the SOUND of the PAPER being ripped.

EXT. ROAD  GITTES DRIVING  DAY

Amidst a hall of shimmering dust and heat, parched and drying

groves, narrower roads.

He passes a ramshackle home, next to a rotting orchard. There

is a "SOLD" sign on the collapsing barn. Gittes stops, checks

it against the names he had taken from the Hall of Records.

OLD STUCCO BUILDINGS FURTHER ON

And a few withered pepper trees. Gittes has paused at this

dried-up intersection. There is a "SOLD" sign on a drug store.

Gittes looks OFF SCREEN.

Coming INTO VIEW above the arid fields is a spiraling cloud

of purple smoke. Gittes heads in that direction.

Gittes parks at the edge of the field. About twenty yards

away is a man mounted on a strange machine, holding a lid

off it.

Billowing lavender clouds are belching forth.

Several CHILDREN are watching the man at work.

Gittes nods, walks over to the man who is elaborately busying

himself with the intricacies of his machine. He's aware of

Gittes watching him.

The Rainmaker now glances down at Gittes, who as usual is

immaculately dressed.

The Rainmaker steps down.

RAINMAKER & GITTES

GITTES DRIVING

Is now covered with a film of dust:

He reaches a fork in the dirt road. There are a couple of

mailboxes.

Gittes takes this fork and begins a slow ascent.

As he does, the tops of a line of bright green trees can be

SEEN, coming more and more INTO VIEW, row upon row of avocado

and walnut groves, their foliage heavy. The few structures

in the distance are white-washed, and well kept, right down

to the white-washed stones that mark the pathway to the home.

Towering above it all is a huge wooden water tank.

Gittes drives through a gate that has "NO TRESPASSING" and

"KEEP OUT PRIVATE PROPERTY" signs neatly printed on it.

He drives down the road into the grove.

GITTES

Pulls to a halt in the road flanking the orchard lanes. He

puts the car in neutral, stares at the trees. By contrast

with what he has seen they are lush and beautiful, their

heavy branches barely swaying in a light breeze.

Then a SHOTGUN BLAST abruptly strips bare the branches of

the tree he'd been staring at.

EXT. AVOCADO GROVES  DAY

Gittes is shocked. He looks behind him. Riding on horseback

down the field in the direction he had just driven is a Red-

Faced Man in overalls. His hat blows off his head. He does

not, however, lose the shotgun he has just used. Gittes'

lane of retreat is denied him. He guns the car, and takes

off down one of the orchard lanes.

MOVING WITH GITTES

The dirt lane is rough. As Gittes nears the end of it, a

Younger Man on a mule blocks the exit.

Gittes veers a sharp left, knocking a branch off one of the

trees, heading down one of the cross-lanes. Here he's pursued

by a scraggly dog that nips at the tires. Gittes yells at

it.

ANGLE ON GROVE

Two farmers on foot, one using a crutch, run down the lanes

toward a dust trail rising above the trees. They've spotted

it. Clearly it's from Gittes' car.

This hide-and-seek chase between one man on horseback, one

on a mule and a couple on foot continues up and down and

across the orchard lanes until Gittes' front tire and radiator

are ruptured by another SHOTGUN BLAST.

Gittes' car veers off, scattering a stray gaggle of geese

and smacks into an avocado tree, shaking loose a barrage of

the heavy fruit onto Gittes and the car.

Gittes immediately tries to get out through the branches

over the back of his car, but he's pulled off it by one of

the younger farmers, a huge brute who he begins to tussle

with. The Crippled Farmer begins to bang Gittes on the back

with his crutch. The two of them manage to pound Gittes to

the ground within moments, where the Crippled Farmer continues

to whack away at Gittes with the crutch.

The older Red Faced Farmer with the shotgun and the Man on a

mule ride up.

Gittes is hefted half off the ground and the two younger

Farmers spin him around, going through his clothes. Gittes

is badly banged up and half out on his feet. They toss his

wallet, his silver cigarette case, etc. on the ground.

Gittes leans against the back of his car, breathing heavily.

Gittes' back is to the Red Faced Farmer. He has trouble

catching his breath. The Crippled Farmer pokes him rudely in

the back with his crutch. Gittes turns sharply.

Gittes looks up at the Red Faced Farmer.

Gittes reaches into his pocket. The paper's on the ground.

He picks it up.

The Big Farmer takes a swing at Gittes. Gittes kicks him

squarely in the nuts, knees him in the jaw after he's doubled

up, and hits him solidly. The Crippled Farmer takes careful

aim and brings his crutch down on the back of Gittes' head.

Gittes is knocked to the ground and lies still beside the

Big Farmer who is writhing in agony in the dirt.

BLACK SCREEN

There's a PURLING SOUND, which soon becomes defined into the

SOUND OF VOICES talking quietly  about whether to move or

not to move, doctors, etc.

CLOSE  EVELYN MULWRAY

Is staring down at Gittes who's lying in the screened in

porch of the farmers. His wife, the Red Faced Farmer, and

the Big Farmer are there, along with the dog.

The Red Faced Farmer's wife has set tea out. The farmers,

all of them, now seem awkward and a little embarrassed.

FRONT PORCH  RED FACE FARMER'S HOUSE  REACTION  GITTES

DUSK

He focuses on Evelyn who sits right next to him. He's got

dried blood down the side of his face from his nose, a huge

mouse on his cheek, and his clothes are torn in a couple of

spots.

Gittes nods. He checks his watch. He looks out. It's almost

evening.

Gittes says nothing. The wife of the Red Faced Farmer (DUBOIS)

looks reproachfully at Dubois. Gittes feels the back of his

head, It obviously hurts him.

EXT. DUBOIS FARMHOUSE  EVENING

Evelyn and Gittes go out to her car, the cream colored

Packard.

Dubois accompanies them, along with the Big Farmer who is

carrying a crate of something. Gittes has cleaned himself up

a little.

Gittes nods.

Gittes looks. Earl has the huge crate he's holding brim-full

of avocados.

INT. CAR  EVELYN & GITTES  DUSK

Evelyn driving.

Gittes pulls out cigarette case, takes one, offers one to

Evelyn who refuses.

He's pulling out his wallet, excitedly now, spilling its

contents onto the seat. He pulls out the obituary column

he'd folded up earlier in the day.

EXT. MAR VISTA INN AND REST HOME  NIGHT

Evelyn's car pulls up before the elegant Spanish rest home,

its entryway illuminated by streetlights. There is a small

sign giving the name of the place in elegant neon scroll. It

sits on the rolling green lawns.

Gittes gets out of the car with Evelyn. He offers her his

arm and they go up the walkway to the entrance.

INT. MAR VISTA INN AND REST HOME  NIGHT

Gittes and Evelyn are approached by an unctuous man in his

forties, with a flower in his buttonhole. He sees Evelyn

first.

Then he gets a clear look at Gittes, bruised, trousers torn,

etc.

Evelyn shakes her head.

Evelyn can't quite conceal her surprise at the question.

Evelyn stares back at Gittes, amused and appalled. She manages

to nod.

Gittes locks eyes with Palmer.

He takes Evelyn.

INT. PARLOR  EVELYN

Looking. Either by accident or design, the primarily

octogenarian guests have segregated themselves. In one wing,

the men are playing pinochle, some are playing dominoes, one

elderly gentleman sits by himself carefully peeling an orange.

In an adjacent parlor several white-headed ladies work on a

quilt.

Gittes grabs Evelyn's hand.

Gittes points to the wall. It says "ACTIVITIES BOARD". There

are titles. "LAWN BOWLING". "BRIDGE". "FISHING". "CROQUET".

Below them are the names of the guests, entered under certain

activities, for certain days.

After Evelyn looks, she turns to Gittes.

Gittes strolls toward the women knitting and working on the

quilt.

Two of the ladies giggle. The third continues to busy herself

with her quilt, off by herself.

Two of them say "she is," and point in different directions.

The third gives them a curt look and goes back to her

knitting. Gittes approaches her.

Some old voice is singing softly, "Don't Sit Under the Apple

Tree."

Gittes looks at the quilt. In it is the head of a fish among

the rest of the crazy quilt pattern. Gittes spots it.

He looks through the quilt for other pieces of the fish,

comes across the tail and by it the initials A.C.

Gittes looks up, sees Palmer standing in the doorway, looking

taut and a little drawn. Evelyn is beside him. She gestures

as if there's someone behind Palmer.

Gittes rises.

He walks toward Palmer who waits for him to walk in front.

AT THE ENTRANCE HALL  MULVIHILL

Is waiting. He's got his hand in his pocket. Evelyn looks to

Gittes.

The four of them stand there, Mulvihill towering over

everyone.

Mulvihill has walked up beside Gittes. He makes the mistake

of opening the glass door in the entryway, putting his back

to Gittes for a moment. Gittes swiftly pulls Mulvihill's

jacket up over his head. He spins him around. With his jacket

covering his face, Gittes hammers away at Mulvihlll, beating

him against the glass door, along the wall, mercilessly

pounding his fists into the cloth until the cloth turns red

and Mulvihill begins to sink to the red tile floor.

Palmer screams. Evelyn stands there astonished. Mulvihill's

gun has clattered to the floor.

Evelyn goes.

Mulvihill tries to get up again. Palmer starts to go for the

gun, nearly picking it up. Gittes slaps it out of his hand

and kicks it.

It goes flying down the hall, at least thirty feet; hits the

wall.

Palmer goes screaming off into the night. Gittes turns back

to Mulvihill who starts to get up, then collapses.

Gittes goes out the front door, ignoring the excited audience

of ancients behind him.

OUTSIDE

As Gittes walks down the pathway, he stops. Two men are coming

toward him. One of them is shorter, and has the nervous,

jerky moves of the man who slit his nose.

Gittes stops. The two men fan out and continue to move toward

him.

Gittes spots the two-tone shoes. He begins to back up.

Suddenly there is a pair of headlights flashing brilliantly

behind the two men. In a moment Evelyn's car is headed across

the lawn directly toward the two men, accelerating as it

gets near them. They look in disbelief, then dive for safety.

The car skids to a stop, fishtailing a little on the grass.

Evelyn opens the passenger door.

Gittes jumps in and she takes off across the lawn, tilting

the elegant little neon sign on the lawn as she goes. Two

SHOTS ARE FIRED.

INT. CAR  EVELYN & GITTES

Evelyn looking straight ahead, driving. After a moment she

takes one hand off the wheel and rubs her left eye a little.

Gittes watches her. He smiles.

EXT. VERANDA  MULWRAY HOME  NIGHT

Gittes stands on the veranda, smoking a cigarette, staring

off into the night.

Evelyn comes out to the veranda, carrying a tray with whiskey

and an ice bucket on it. She sets it down. Gittes turns.

They drink.

Gittes touches his nose, winces a little.

Gittes looks sharply at her. Then:

She looks at him. Gittes stares off into the night.

Evelyn has poured herself another drink.

Gittes gets up.

He touches his nose lightly.

She takes his hand and leads him back into the house.

INT. BATHROOM  MIRROR

Gittes pulls the plaster off his nose, stares at it in the

mirror.

Evelyn takes some hydrogen peroxide and some cotton out of a

medicine cabinet. Evelyn turns Gittes' head toward her. She

has him sit on the pullman tile adjacent to the sink.

She begins to work on his nose with the peroxide. Then she

sees his cheek, checks back in his hair.

Gittes shrugs.

They're very close now as she's going over a mouse very near

his eye.

He takes hold of her and pulls her even closer,

Gittes kisses her lightly, gradually rises until he's standing

holding her. She hesitates, then wraps her arms around him.

INT. MULWRAY BEDROOM  TELEPHONE

On a nightstand, city lights visible through the open window

behind it. It is RINGING. Evelyn's arm reaches INTO SHOT.

SOUND of something hitting the headboard. Gittes moans.

VIEW SHIFTS TO INCLUDE Gittes in bed, holding his head, which

he's just hit. Evelyn pauses in her reach to the phone. She

turns to him, whispers, "I'm sorry," kisses him on the head

and lips. PHONE CONTINUES TO RING. She picks it up.

VIEW SHIFTS AGAIN TO INCLUDE Gittes in bed, watching Evelyn

next to him as she's talking on the phone. She hangs up. She

touches Gittes' cheek lightly.

Gittes stares at her silently.

She leaps out of bed, throwing on a robe.

Evelyn starts quickly for the bathroom, then comes back and

kneels by the side of the bed, takes Gittes' hand.

She kisses him, rushes to the bathroom, shuts the door. Gittes

stares at it a moment. Then leaps out of bed, rummages around,

tosses on his trousers. He grabs his shoes, throws them on.

Then hurries out of the bedroom.

EXT. MULWRAY HOME  GITTES

Running across the driveway to the garage. There are two

cars there.

Mulwray's Buick and Evelyn's Packard.

Gittes moves over to the Buick, opens the passenger's door.

INT. BUICK - GITTES

Checks the ignition. No key is in it. He pulls a couple of

wires from under the dash, starts to mess with them, seems

satisfied.

Slides out across the seat, slams the door.

EXT. MULWRAY DRIVEWAY  NIGHT

Gittes hurries over to the Packard. He gets down on the

driveway, lying on his back, bracing himself. With the heel

of his shoe, he kicks at the right rear taillight of the

car. He shatters the red lens, gets up. He carefully pulls

the red lens off the taillight, exposing the white light

beneath it. He tosses the red lens into the shrubbery and

hurries back toward the house.

ONE RED AND ONE WHITE TAILLIGHT  MOVING  NIGHT

Evelyn's car speeds along the curves on Sunset Boulevard,

the red and white lights coming IN AND OUT OF VIEW.

GITTES DRIVING  NIGHT

Behind the wheel of Mulwray's car, keeping a healthy distance

from Evelyn in front of him.

EVELYN'S PACKARD

Pulls up before a small little bungalow house. She gets out,

looks up and down the street. There is nothing. She hurries

on up the walkway to the front door.

DOWN THE STREET  GITTES IN BUICK

Idles the engine with the lights off. He brings the car a

few yards further down the street, parking it near Evelyn's.

Gittes gets out of the car and goes up the walkway. The

curtains are drawn except for one of the small windows on

the side of the house.

He goes to it and looks, balancing on the edge of the porch.

THROUGH THE WINDOW

Gittes sees Evelyn's Oriental servant rush through the living

room of the small house. In a moment he re-emerges back

through the living room carrying a tray with a glass and

pitcher on it.

GITTES

Around to the side of the house. He runs into shrubbery and

a short picket fence.

He climbs over it, follows along the stucco wall to a series

of windows at the corner of the house. These all have shades

on them.

He can hear someone crying in the house. Someone else talking

alternately firmly and plaintively in Spanish. Here the

windows have blinds. He moves to one where the blind is not

completely drawn.

There's an inch or so of space at the bottom.

THROUGH THE WINDOW

Gittes can see the servant again. Evelyn is pacing back and

forth in and out of his line of vision. After a moment someone

rises INTO SHOT, obviously from lying on a bed. The figure

is just a few feet from Evelyn. Her tear-stained face comes

INTO VIEW. It is unmistakably the girl Gittes had last seen

with Hollis Mulwray.

Mulwray's girlfriend. She's looking up to Evelyn, speaking

in Spanish. Her words are not discernible but the tone is

bitter, anguished. A newspaper is strewn about the room.

Evelyn kneels. She insists that the girl swallow down some

pills.

The girl reluctantly does.

GITTES

Continues to watch.

EXT. STREET  EVELYN  NIGHT

Emerges from the house, goes to her car and gets in.

INT. CAR

Evelyn sees Gittes sitting in her car, staring coldly at

her.

Gittes starts to get out of the car. Evelyn grabs his arm,

nearly screaming:

Her intensity actually rips Gittes' already partially torn

jacket.

He looks at it and her. It seems to have a momentary calming

effect on both of them.

Gittes explodes.

A long pause. Evelyn's head sinks onto the steering wheel,

her hair covering her face.

Evelyn is breathing very deeply now. Not crying, but the

kind of deep breathing that comes from real hysteria. Gittes

puts an arm on her shoulder.

She lifts her head and looks up at him. He's genuinely

puzzled.

She nods. Gittes sighs.

She begins to cry softly.

There is a long moment of silence. Gittes looks over to

Evelyn. Her hair covers most of her face from him.

He gets out and slams the car door. She drives off.

INT. SHOWER  GITTES' APARTMENT  GITTES

The spray is hitting him full on the top of the head. Gittes

is so exhausted he's literally holding onto the nozzle as

the water pours down. He shuts the shower off, reaches weakly

for a towel, dabs his nose lightly with it.

INT. GITTES' BEDROOM  GITTES

Pads around in elegant silk pajamas.

He walks over to the window where morning light is streaming

in. He closes the curtains, collapses on the bed, on top of

the covers, inert. Almost immediately the PHONE RINGS. Gittes

lets it go on for a moment, then picks it up without saying

anything.

Gittes slowly rises to one elbow.

He hangs up, falls back down. PHONE RINGS AGAIN. AND AGAIN.

Gittes swears, picks it up.

Before Gittes can say anything, the phone clicks dead.

EXT. CERRITOS TOWER ROAD  HOLLYWOOD HILLS  EARLY MORNING

Gittes pulls up. It is a bungalow courtyard with a very narrow

walkway and sickly green stucco.

EXT. IDA SESSIONS' APARTMENT  DAY

Gittes at the front door. It's slightly ajar. He knocks.

Nothing. He opens it and enters.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Morning light filters through the half-open blinds. Dust

particles in the shafts of light. It's still and empty. Gittes

sees something down the hall, under the legs of a telephone

table. Gittes moves toward it. It is grotesque. When he gets

closer he can see it's a wilted head of lettuce. Just inside

the kitchen some radishes and onions lie on the linoleum.

Gittes walks on into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN

Clearing the kitchen counter, Gittes sees IDA SESSIONS lying

on her back on the floor, surrounded by the groceries from a

broken bag.

Ice cream has melted around her. Her eyes are open, a stream

of ants is moving across the ice cream and into her mouth.

She's recognizable as the woman who posed as Evelyn Mulwray.

Gittes kneels over her. He gingerly opens her handbag, fishes

for its contents, takes them and looks at them on the kitchen

counter.

Wallet with a few bills in it, driver's license with her

name. A Screen Actors Guild card. Gittes nods, turns,

carefully replaces the items in the purse.

He idly opens the broom closet, pantry, and even Frigidaire,

which is all but empty. Then he steps over her body and moves

across the hall to a door that is slightly ajar.

INT. BATHROOM

Gittes enters and turns on the light.

Escobar and another PLAINCLOTHED MAN stand in the bathroom

by the entrance to the bedroom door. Gittes turns around. A

THIRD MAN is now coming down the hall from the bedroom.

Gittes looks at the two, doesn't reply.

INT. KITCHEN

Escobar points to the number "MU 7279" on the side of one of

the kitchen cabinets.

He indicates one of his assistants.

The Assistant starts to move for Gittes who is ready for

him.

Escobar steps between the two.

In the open drawer are the photos of Mulwray and the girl in

the park, boat, and at the El Macando on the veranda.

Gittes takes a deep breath.

Escobar nods.

Gittes is surprised at this piece of information, but remains

nonplussed.

Escobar manages a thin smile.

This is a little telling.

This stops Escobar. He's dumbfounded by it.

Escobar hesitates.

The men around Escobar look to him. Escobar grudgingly nods.

CLOSE SHOT  STORM DRAIN

It yawns AT CAMERA, only a trickle of water dropping into

the ocean.

VIEW WIDENS TO INCLUDE Escobar, Gittes, and two Plain

clothesmen, standing and staring at the empty pipe as if

they expect it to talk.

A THIRD ASSISTANT runs down the side of the cliff and Over

to Escobar.

Escobar turns to Gittes. Stares at him for a long moment.

Escobar stares hatefully at Gittes.

EXT. MULWRAY HOME  DAY

Gittes in Mulwray's Buick whips into the driveway. He looks

in the garage. Evelyn's car is gone. Only the Gardener's

truck is there.

Gittes hurries along the pathway and up to the house. He

rings the doorbell. Scarcely waiting for an answer he tries

it. It's locked.

He reaches into his pocket pulls out his cigarette case,

takes a pick out of the side and starts to fool with the

lock.

The Maid opens the door abruptly, stares in some surprise at

Gittes.

Gittes looks past the Maid to the center of the living room

where luggage is packed and neatly piled.

The Maid is actually in the process of throwing covers over

the furniture.

Gittes nods. He continues through the house and out back to

the veranda.

EXT. MULWRAY VERANDA  GITTES

Is unsettled. Sees the Gardener working by the pond. He

wanders a few yards in that direction.

GARDENER

Spots Gittes, half-bows, nods and smiles.

GITTES

In turn, nods, smiles.

GARDENER

Breaks into a big grin. Nods again.

He points to the newly mown lawn.

The Gardener nods vigorously. Points to the pond.

Gittes has moved to the pond. He kneels. Clinging to the

edge of it he can now see as he could have before if he'd

looked closely, a starfish.

CLOSE STARFISH

It has one leg missing. The fifth point on the star is just

beginning to grow back.

GITTES

Touches the water, tastes it. He licks his lips, then spots

something glinting in the bottom of the pond.

The Gardener peers into the pond.

The Gardener spots it. He rolls up his trousers, gets in the

pond, and reaches into the bottom, his chin actually touching

the water.

He misses the object, which seems to scoot away like an

animal. Then he grasps it. He lifts it out of the water and

holds a pair of eye glasses, rimless, bent, his finger poking

through the frame where one lens is shattered.

The Gardener seems surprised. Gittes looks at the glasses.

They are heavily bifocal and reflect the sun.

INT. MULWRAY HOME

Gittes holds the phone to his ear. On the telephone table,

lying on his handkerchief are the glasses.

The Maid hovers around over Gittes' shoulder, uneasily

watching him.

Gittes hangs up.

EXT. BUNGALOW HOUSE  ADELAIDE DRIVE

Gittes pulls up in Mulwray's Buick. He hurries to the front

door, pounds on it.

The Chinese servant answers the door.

Gittes pushes past him. Evelyn, looking a little worn but

glad to see him hurries to the door. She takes Gittes' arm.

She looks at him, searching his face.

They move into the living room. Gittes is looking around it.

Gittes continues to look around. He sees clothes laid out

for packing in a bedroom off the living room.

Gittes doesn't answer. He goes to the phone and dials.

Gittes looks at her, then takes the handkerchief out of his

breast pocket. Unfolds it on a coffee table, revealing the

bifocal glasses, one lens still intact. Evelyn stares dumbly

at them.

Gittes has been in a state of near frenzy himself. gets up,

shakes her.

Evelyn is trembling.

Gittes smiles.

Gittes stares at her. He's been charged with anger and when

Evelyn says this it explodes. He hits her full in the face.

Evelyn stares back at him. The blow has forced tears from

her eyes, but she makes no move, not even to defend herself.

Gittes slaps her again.

Gittes slaps her again.

He hits her again.

He belts her finally, knocking her into a cheap Chinese vase

which shatters and she collapses on the sofa, sobbing.

Kyo comes running down the stairs.

Kyo turns after staring at Gittes for a moment then goes

back upstairs.

Gittes doesn't answer.

She nods.

Evelyn looks slowly up at Gittes.

Gittes suddenly feels the need to loosen his tie.

She stops suddenly.

For a moment Gittes doesn't know what she's talking about.

Then he follows her gaze to the glasses lying on his

handkerchief.

Gittes picks up the glasses, stares at the lens, is

momentarily lost in them.

EVELYN

From the stairs. She has her arm around Katherine.

With her arm around the girl, talking in Spanish, Evelyn

hurries her toward the bedroom. In a moment she re-emerges.

REACTION  GITTES

He nods slowly.

THRU WINDOW

Of bungalow Gittes watches Evelyn, the girl and Kyo head for

Kyo's black dusty sedan.

Gittes drops the curtain, heads swiftly to the phone. He

dials.

The front BELL RINGS.

Gittes hangs up and goes to the door. He opens it. No one is

there.

Escobar and his minions appear from either side of the door.

Escobar nods.

EXT. SAN PEDRO  29TH STREET  DAY

A steep hill overlooks part of the harbor. Escobar's unmarked

car pulls up to a stop in front of a Spanish duplex perched

on the steep hillside.

Escobar waits.

Escobar shakes his head. For a moment it looks like it means

no.

Gittes gets out of the car, glances around, goes up the

stairs. He looks back down at Escobar. Gittes rings the bell.

He waits. It opens. It's a WOMAN who's not recognizable.

She's got the remnants of a black eye.

Gittes looks past her to Curly, the fisherman from the first

scene.

He's seated at the dinner table with his father, his mother,

and his children. Curly looks up in surprise.

Gittes enters and closes the door. Curly rises and comes

over to him, greets him happily.

INT. KITCHEN  GITTES AND CURLY

They head out the back door and down the steps toward the

garage.

EXT. ALLEY AND GARAGE

Curly pulls open the garage door. Gets in, starts the car,

backs it out. It's an old, late twenties Plymouth Sedan.

Gittes hops in. They take off. At the edge of the alley Gittes

looks back.

POV FROM CURLY'S CAR

Escobar is getting out of his car, moving towards the duplex.

Gittes slips down in the seat.

INT. SEDAN  GITTES AND CURLY

EXT. MULWRAY HOME  GITTES AND CURLY

Carry bags out to Curly's car. Curly opens the door for the

Maid.

She gets in. He turns to Gittes.

Curly nods, reassured. He gets in and takes off.

EXT. MULWRAY HOME  DUSK

By the pond, cigarette smoke drifts INTO SHOT. A car pulls

up. In a moment Cross can be SEEN, looking TOWARD CAMERA.

He walks toward Gittes who stands by the pond, smoking.

Cross' tone alters here.

Gittes pulls something out of his pocket and unfolds it.

Cross dips into his coat pocket and pulls out a pair of

rimless glasses.. He puts them on, reads.

GITTES

Stares at the bifocal lenses as Cross continues to look

through the obituary column. He looks up.

Gittes is holding the bifocals with the broken lens now.

Cross looks at the glasses.

EXT. POND  CROSS AND GITTES

Gittes nods.

Cross makes a funny little cock of his head.

Mulvihill moves INTO VIEW. Extends his hand for the glasses.

Gittes doesn't move.

Gittes hands over the glasses.

EXT. CHINATOWN STREET  NIGHT

The streets are crowded. Here and there one can see Chinese

in traditional dress.

GITTES

Driving slowly, spots Katherine with Ramon and luggage, nearly

lost in the crowd. They are walking toward a car parked near

a laundry truck.

Gittes sees them, keeps driving.

Mulvihill tries to clobber Gittes. Gittes elbows him. The

car jumps the curb and hits a lamppost.

EXT. STREET  CROSS

Leaps out of the car shouting:

Gittes is after him, grabbing him. Cross tries to swing at

Gittes with his cane. Mulvihill comes up behind Gittes and

the three of them begin an awkward wrestling match, the crowd

scattering, Mulvihill pulling his revolver, trying to hit

Gittes on the side of the head. The three men crash to the

pavement.

CURLY

Starts out of the car toward Gittes. Gittes sees him.

He bites Mulvihill's hand and furiously pounds it into the

sidewalk, shaking gun loose. Mulvihill and Gittes try for it

but someone else has it.

EVELYN

Holds the gun. She's shaking but apparently in control of

herself.

GITTES

Rises to his feet. Mulvihill starts to help Cross up.

Mulvihill doesn't move. Cross rises on his own. Evelyn holds

the revolver on him.

Evelyn backs up as her father takes a step toward her.

Evelyn is backing up. Cross moving on her. Evelyn cocks the

pistol.

There's the SOUND of a SIREN. Cross lunges toward her. Gittes

grabs Cross.

Duffy and Walsh are elbowing through the crowd. Gittes sees

them.

She looks to Gittes. He looks at her. She turns and he looks

at her.

She turns and Escobar is standing between her and it.

Escobar continues to move toward her. Gittes grabs him.

Evelyn gets in the car. She starts it. Gittes lets Escobar

go.

There's a single GUNSHOT. Both men look surprised. Down the

block a uniformed officer has fired, standing beside his

double-parked car.

Duffy's sedan slows to a stop in the middle of the street.

It jerks a couple of times, still in gear, then comes to a

halt.

Gittes rushes to the car. He opens it. Evelyn falls out,

inert.

Blood is pouring from her right eye.

He holds onto Evelyn as Escobar and others hurry up. Cross

himself elbows through.

Several officers contain Gittes.

Gittes looks down. What he sees horrifies him. Cross is on

the ground, holding Evelyn's body, crying.

Walsh and Duffy elbow through the crowd.

Duffy bear hugs the protesting Gittes, along with Walsh,

literally dragging him away from the scene, with Gittes trying

to shake free.

Through the crowd noises, Walsh can be heard saying, "Forget

it, Jake. It's Chinatown."

