Credits start on a black screen, then they continue during the

whole scene at Michelle's place, and they end at the beginning of

the scene at Bill Capa's office.

MICHELLE'S PLACE - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up on a silver lipstick stand made into a bad taste musical

box. We see Michelle's hand selecting a lipstick then we see

Michelle putting the lipstick on her lips, seated in front of the

mirror of her dressing table. She is dressed in a green frock, and

her face shows that she is quite disturbed.

useless objects and gold-plated furniture and many mirrors.

finding it. She then goes to a sofa covered with cushions, which

she throws all around the place, still madder at not finding her

dress. A cat, who was lying on the armrest of the sofa, runs away

hurriedly from the mad Michelle.

Michelle is back in front of the mirror of her dressing-table. She

takes the lipstick and put a lot of it on her lips, then on her

teeth, then all around her mouth. She makes faces to herself in

the mirror. She seems more and more disturbed.

it in her purse, then takes it out, spins the cylinder of the

revolver, and puts the revolver in her mouth, as if she wanted to

kill herself. But instead, she starts sucking the barrel, while

she strokes the revolver in a quite erotic way.

BILL CAPA' OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

Large planes of ground glass. We hear, without understanding them,

some voices and laughs. Then a male voice becomes more

understandable...

... then Michelle appears on the screen. She is dressed in a green

suit, she is heavily made up, et she still seems very disturbed.

York psycho-analyst. Beautiful and good taste furniture. Shelves

with leather-bound books.

During this reply, Bill Capa has appeared on the screen. He is

seated. He is wearing a long-sleeve shirt, a necktie, but no

jacket. He laughs at Michelle's last sentence.

He stands up.

Cutting him.

We see Michelle as if we were watching her from behind the mirror.

During this last reply, Bill, standing up, is fidgeting with

something on his desk. At Michelle's last words, he turns toward

her, looking alarmed. But he doesn't have time to do prevent her

from breaking through the glass pane and jumping outside. He yells

Michelle twice.

A STREET IN NEW-YORK - EXTERIOR DAY

We see Michelle's body falling all the way down. Capa's office

must be around the 25th floor. The body crashes on the street. A

police horse, who was near the impact, rears up in fright. As if

the asphalt were translucent, we see Michelle's body from

underneath, with the blood flowing around it.

BILL CAPA'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

We see Bill with tears in his eyes. He walks to the broken window,

and look outside.

Voice over.

OPHTHALMOLOGIST'S OFFICE - INTERIOR DAY

Bill is seated with a huge ophthalmologic device on his head. He

finishes the preceding reply.

The ophthalmologist moves the device away. We see Bill's face, and

behind him, projected on the wall, an abstract drawing made of

colored spots close together. The red spots start to blink and

then they become grey.

LARRY'S PLACE - INTERIOR DAY

It is the apartment of an old New-York intellectual. A bit messy.

A old Earth globe on a stand. Objects and books everywhere, but

with an warm atmosphere. Larry wears an open shirt and a sweater.

Bill also is in open shirt, with a sleeveless sweater. At the

beginning of the scene, Bill is lying on a couch.

Larry puts down the newspaper he was reading. It is the New York

Post. On the front page, a title in large prints : Patient's

family sues Manhattan shrink

Bill laughs.

Larry starts to make tea in a corner of the room. Bill is seated

on an armchair during the following reply, and strokes the grey

cat who is lying on the table.

Bill stands up.

He picks up his jacket on a chair and put it on.

During the two last replies, Bill has walked to the front door.

He shows his forehead and pretends he is shooting a bullet in it.

ABOVE L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

Shot of L.A. seen from the sky, then shot of an airplane landing.

On these two short shots, we hear :

The end of the sentence is not understandable, because it is mixed

with the sound of a radio set in a car.

TAXI IN A TRAFFIC JAM - EXTERIOR DAY

The voice in the radio is covered by the voice of the taxi driver.

He wears a French cap and a striped shirt. He has a strong foreign

accent, which makes his sentences a bit hard to understand. Bill

is seated at the back of the taxi. He is wearing a black polo

shirt, jeans and sunglasses.

Short shot of the accident.

Car horns. A car bumps into the back of the taxi. Bill moves

forward and backward, and then massages the back of his head.

BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bob's office is located in a big modern building in downtown L.A.

A wide sitting room, called Group Room is reserved for group

therapy sessions. Furniture is modern and functional, but with a

little personal touch.

we see Sondra putting covertly the lighter in her purse. She is

dressed in a very elegant way, and wears expensive jewels. Richie,

a teenagers with a large checkered floating shirt, a sleeveless

denim jacket and walkman earphones on his head, walks behind her

without looking at her, and gets seated in an armchair. We hear

voices, but we understand only a few words here and there. Then a

voice becomes clearer than the other ones. It is Clark's voice

counting the books on a shelf.

He is dressed with a very neat grey suit. Everything on him is

neat : not a hair going the wrong way.

He is seated on an armchair shaped like a giant hand. He looks ver

artist. He wears his hair tied in a ponytail. He is making fun

of Clark.

He looks very rough, with his uncombed grey hair. He wears a red

sweater without shirt, and a jacket.

He take off his jacket.

Casey laughs.

We see Bob behind the glass on the door of the room. He wears a

shirt and a necktie, but no jacket. He looks pensively at the

group.

Casey is looking for his lighter. We see Sondra taping her chin

with the lighter, then giving it back to Casey.

Bob enters the room.

He closes the door. We hear Bill's voice.

BOB'S OFFICE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY

Bob jumps nervously, then walks in the corridor toward Bill. They

hug each other.

Bob drags him by the sleeve and pushes him into the meeting room.

BOB' OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

He sits next to Clark, who stands up to give him room.

She simpers while she talks.

The secretary closes the door behind Bob's back, who remains

seated and only turns his head slightly.

She simpers a lot and makes strange faces while she talks.

Richie looks at Bill's feet. Bill is wearing a red sock and a

green sock, which makes Richie smile.

Clark looks embarrassed. Casey sneers.

Richie put his walkman earphones back on his ears.

Richie doesn't hear a thing because of his earphones.

Yelling louder.

He signals him to take off his earphones. Richie takes them off.

He talks to Richie.

One feels he has elocution problems. He stutters and looks for his

words.

Imitating him.

Richie jumps on Casey. Sondra stands up to stop him, but she is

toot late. Richie falls on Casey and knocks his armchair down.

They fight on the floor. Buck tries to take them apart. He

succeeds in tearing Richie away by holding him with both arms, and

carrying him away.

Richie gets free and walks rapidly out of the room. Sondra tries

to follow him. Bob stops her.

Voice over.

Bob straightens up the armchair and Casey stands up sneering.

Talking to Bill.

She seems a bit shocked.

He starts crying.

Sondra turns her head away : she looks disturbed and moved. Clark

wipes his eyes.

He talks in articulating his words in an affected manner.

At the end of his reply, he seems to be ready to cry. He puts his

head in his hands, then shows his laughing face.

He moves to sit behind Clark. He lights a cigarette.

He sneers.

Buck comes and sits next to Casey. They smoke together.

Buck and Casey puff clouds of smoke.

General laugh. Several incomprehensible words. We understand only

Sondra's next reply.

Richie enters the room.

Richie walks behind Bill to reach his seat.

BOB' OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

The end of the preceding scene fades in the beginning of this one.

We are now later in the same day. Night has come. The atmosphere

seems more relax. Buck is half lying on a sofa. Sondra is

finishing her story with a sweet voice, and does not simper

anymore.

He looks at this watch.

Bob gets up very quickly. Everyone does like him, but more slowly.

Bob turns back before he leaves the room.

Bill nods in agreement.

He whispers.

Bill remains seated and nods to the people getting out. Clark

remains, behind Bill, in front of the shelves. He puts something

back in a plastic bag and mumbles something we don't understand.

Bill turns toward him.

He puts the bag in the pocket of this jacket, and takes a book on

a shelf. He gives it to Bill.

He wipes his hand with a white handkerchief, wipes the handle of

his black leather case before taking it, and then puts the

handkerchief in the pocket of his pants.

Bill holds his hand out, but Clark does not take it. He just nods

in a friendly way and goes out.

Alone, Bill flips through the books.

IN FRONT OF BOB'S OFFICE BUILDING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Bill and Bob come out of the building where Bob's office is

located. Bob has his jacket on and Bob is wearing a brown leather

jacket. He is carrying his traveling bags.

BOB'S CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Bob's expensive convertible Mercedes starts away. On the back

license plate, we can read WAY TO GO. The roof of the car is

open. The rest of the scene takes place inside the car driving

through Los Angeles.

He laughs.

Bill laughs.

They have reached a quieter road.

Bob turns on his left to enter his residence.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A huge sliding metallic door, with spikes on the top, moves

smoothly to let the car enter. Bill seems impressed by the

residence of his friend. He looks at the security camera. Bob

stops the car and they get out of it. Bill takes his luggage.

They come near a door shaped like a giant keyhole.

A metallic gate slides behind the door to let them in.

They get down a few steps and reach a lawn.

Bill looks with admiration at the pool, and at the huge and

impressive house, very Hollywood-like.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR NIGHT

They enter the house. A beep is heard when Bob opens the door.

Bill laughs.

He laughs, looking at the luxury that surrounds him. The best and

the most expensive in modern furniture. Large expensive paintings

hanged on the walls. Leather armchairs. Bob types a secret code on

a keyboard. Then he switch on a small TV set that shows the

pictures from all the security cameras.

He puts back in place a painting that was slightly crooked.

He takes off his jacket.

He sits behind the bar.

He has taken two bottle of beer from the fridge and he gives one

to Bill.

They clink the two bottle and drink the beer from the bottle.

Bill plays with a piece of art, consisting of an assembly of

square pieces of glass glued together into a larger square. The

object can pivot on his stand and, when you look through it, you

get a distorted view of whatever is behind it.

We see the distorted face of Bill through the piece of art, or

rather several distorted view of Bill's face seen through each of

the individual square of glass. Bob pivot the object to have a

better view of his friend.

Bill pivot the object again to hide behind it.

He gets up.

He takes a big book on a shelf. There is a picture of Sigmund

Freud on the cover.

He puts the book back, and with his hand, makes a masturbation

gesture.

We feel that Bill is ready to cry.

He has tears in his eyes.

COUNTRYSIDE - EXTERIOR DAY

In front of Bob's residence. The sun is shining. Bill is wearing a

brown tank top and white jogging pants. Bob is wearing a blue

cyclist shirt and black pants. They're both wearing caps. They are

ready to go cycling. We hear the voice over of Bob, finishing the

sentence from the preceding scene.

They mount their bicycles.

They are now on the road in front of Bob's residence.

He starts full speed.

background.

They are going uphill.

He slows down.

Bob stops and dismounts his bike.

Bill dismounts his bike. Bob gets his bike upside down and sets it

upright standing on the saddle and the handlebar. He checks the

chain. Bill is leaning on his bike.

Bob spins the pedals to check the chain.

He puts his bike back on the wheels.

They put their sunglasses on.

He laughs.

We see them going very fast on the minor dirt road. A horse rider

rides near them.

They ride even faster while clowning, like riding on the back

wheel.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

The heavy metal door is sliding away. Bob and Bill are getting in.

They dismount their bikes with some difficulty. They drop their

bikes on the ground.

They hold each other by the waist and the shoulders.

A beep and the second gate gets open.

They enter the residence. Bill is massaging his buttocks.

BOB'S OFFICE - BOB'S WORKROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Short low angle shot of the whole building, before entering Bob's

workroom. Bob's desk is decorated with two wrought iron eagles.

Bob is wearing jacket and necktie. He is just finishing a session

with a patient.

He escorts his patient to the door. Enter Barbara, Bob's

secretary.

She gets out. Bob takes his jacket off and sets it on a clothes

valet. He then stops by the shelves behind his desk and starts the

music : a concerto for piano and orchestra. He sits behind his

desk, and starts writing in a large notebook. He hears a strange

noise, and raises his head. He puts his pen down, open a drawer

and takes his revolver out. A draught flips the pages of his

notebook. He seems to feel better, puts the revolver back and

closes the drawer. Then he closes the notebook, takes it and goes

to the shelves. He seems to be looking for something, and feels

worried not to find it. He gets out of his workroom.

BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

He enters the meeting room and goes directly to the shelves. He

looks around and takes an art book about Van Gogh. He checks that

the size of the art book and the size of his notebook are similar.

He takes off the dustcover of the art book and puts it on his

notebook, puts his notebook on the shelf where the art book was

and puts the art book in the bottom of the shelves. A shadow moves

on the shelves and a strange noise is heard. Bob, a bit nervous,

goes to the door and opens it. The classical music stops. Through

the open door, we can see Bob opening the door of his workroom.

He comes back into the meeting room. When he enters the room, the

light is suddenly switched off. He crosses the meeting room. We

can hear someone chuckling, and we can see a shadow through the

glass on the door.

BOB'S OFFICE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bobs gets rapidly out of the meeting room. A man, completely

covered in black leather, jumps through a large ground glass

paneI, and jumps on Bob's back. Short fight on the floor. Bob gets

up, bumps into the drinking fountain which falls on the floor, and

falls down.

glove. The hand closes itself and a long blade appears on the top

of the hand. Bob gets up and is stabbed in the chest. He staggers

a bit, takes a blue vase on a table and tries to hit the head of

the mysterious man. He misses and the vase crashes on the wall. He

is stabbed again in the chest. His staggering increases. He turns

around and the man stabs him several time in the back. He stumbles

to the front door. Another stab in the back. The man grabs him by

his hair to bring him back into the workroom.

The man stabs him several times. Bob is covered with blood. He

falls on a glass door. The glass is shattered. Bob falls on his

back. A big piece of glass goes through him and comes out of his

stomach. Through the window, we can see an helicopter flying over

Los Angeles.

MAIN POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A car has just stopped in front of the building. The blue

revolving light keeps on moving on top of the car. An helicopter

is flying above the building. It could be the same that is seen at

the end of the preceding scene. Officer Anderson goes around the

car and opens the door for Bill. Bill is wearing a T-shirt, a

light sweater and jeans. One can tell he had to dress quickly.

Bills gets out of the car, and the car moves away. Anderson takes

Bill into the building.

MAIN POLICE STATION - INTERIOR NIGHT

Classical setup of a californian police station. The various rooms

are separated with glass partitions. An officer enters pushing, in

front of him, a hooker dressed with a minimum of very flashy

clothes.

Anderson leads Bill into a room and leaves him there. Bill sits

down. Enters lieutenant Hector Martinez. He is wearing a pink

shirt with short sleeves. His tie is badly knotted on an open

collar. He has a police badge fixed on his belt. He holds a file

in his hand.

He closes the door, puts his file on the desk and sits down behind

the desk.

He taps his head with his right hand, a gesture meaning mental

illness. He has a telephone number scribbled on the palm of his

hand.

Anderson enters the room behind Bill, carrying a plastic cup.

Anderson gives Bill the cup.

Anderson leaves the room and closes the door.

He blows on the cup.

He laughs and gets up.

He sits down on the desk, facing Bill.

He puts a finger on his lips.

He gets up. We see his pistol hooked on the back of his belt.

He mimes vultures walking.

He sits back on the edge of the desk.

He pauses before answering.

He goes back to his seat behind the desk, and conspicuously shows

his back to Bill.

He turns back to Bill.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill plays with the piece of art made of pieces of glass. He

pivots it. We can see Bill's face duplicated by the object. We

then see Bill putting back in place the same crooked painting that

Bob had been putting back in place the first time Bill was in the

house. Then we see him walking pensively around the house.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR DAY

A corridor. We hear the buzz of an intercom. Bill comes out of the

bathroom, dressed in a white bathrobe. He is drying his hair with

a towel.

He walks in the corridor, looking for the buzzer. He arrives into

the main hall, near the video security device. On the wall near

the TV set, two large paintings showing enlarged footprints. On

the screen, we see Hector's face.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - MAIN GATE - EXTERIOR DAY

Hector is waiting in front of the gate. He is wearing a grey

shirt, a beige blazer and a necktie, and a police badge on his

belt. Next to him is Bob's car. Behind him, a uniformed police

officer. Hector presses the bell. We hear a beep.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

We see and hear Hector via the TV set.

Bill takes the remote control.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - MAIN GATE - EXTERIOR DAY

We hear Bill's voice in the intercom.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

BOB'S RESIDENCE - MAIN GATE - EXTERIOR DAY

BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

BOB'S RESIDENCE - MAIN GATE - EXTERIOR DAY

Hector waits a little, then gets sprayed by a sprinkler located

outside the screen-field.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

We hears the end of Hector's sentence.

Bill taps on the remote control. We hear a beep. On the TV set, we

see Hector taking his jacket off.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Hector is searching the shelves on the wall. He quickly looks

through the books, takes a step back, then thrusts his hand behind

a row of books, and grabs a photo album. While flipping through

the pages, he goes to the sofa and sits next to Bill. Bill is

wearing a white shirt and a pair of jeans. Hector goes on turning

the pages, and stop on a page with the picture of supine naked

woman.

Bill closes the album, takes it from Hector's hands and gets up.

He turns to look at Hector.

He walks to the shelves and put the album back where it was found.

He looks at Hector.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Close-up of the head of the bed. It is decorated with wooden

sculpture of women's faces. Hector enters the room, followed by

Bill. He goes to the bed and strokes the sculptures.

He goes around the bed and sits next to the sculpture, which he

keeps on fondling.

Hector opens a drawer, and takes a revolver out of it. He holds it

with his pen stuck into the trigger ring.

Hector puts the revolver back in the drawer.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

Bill and Hector are getting out of the house.

They are crossing the garden. Hector is still in shirtsleeves and

has some papers in his hand.

They have reached the main gate. Hector gets out and Bill presses

a switch. The gate starts sliding between him and Hector.

A ROAD - EXTERIOR DAY

We are in Bob's car, with the roof open. Bill is wearing a green

polo shirt, jeans and sunglasses. He is on the phone, while he

drives the car, but he drives slowly.

We see Bill from the back. In the rear-view mirror of the car, we

see another convertible vehicle approaching with also its roof

open. A young girl is driving. She comes a bit too fast and bumps

into the back of Bill's car. Bill jumps and stops his car.

He puts the telephone back on his hook and gets out of the car. He

goes to Rose's car. She is leaning on the steering wheel.

He opens the door. She stands back. She is wearing a large beige

sweater.

He goes away from the car.

She gets out of her car.

She goes around her car, and looks at the damage.

She stoops, picks up a piece of red plastic and gives it to Bill.

Rose goes to her car and Bill throws the piece of red plastic

away. Rose gets into her car, looks into her purse, and takes a

small notebook and a pen. Bill takes them but hesitates before

writing. Rose smiles mockingly.

He goes away from the car.

Bill gets into his car.

He starts his car.

BOB'S OFFICE - WORKROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill skip through the pages of a large notebook, looking exactly

like the one Bob had hidden under a Van Gogh dustcover just before

he got killed. He puts his back on the two other ones, already

lying on the desk. He is wearing a grey T-shirt and an open denim

shirt.

BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill enters the room, coming from the workroom.

He is standing up. He is wearing a white T-shirt and a grey

sweater with a V-shaped collar.

He is wearing a grey sport jacket with a zipper and a striped T-

shirt.

He is wearing a dark suit, very elegant. He is wiping his hand

with a handkerchief.

She enters very rapidly through the corridor door. She seems very

happy. She drops on the armchair next to Casey. She is wearing an

very close-fitting overall, which is generously open on her

throat. The top of the overall is very colorful and the bottom is

black. On top of it, she is wearing a pink sport jacket.

He is sitting in an armchair. He is wearing an grey collarless

shirt and a black sleeveless vest.

Her face is distorted by the pain. She puts her hand in front of

her mouth.

He stands up.

He gets more and more angry through the preceding reply.

He has become very nervous too.

She jumps up. She goes to Clark and hits him.

He takes Sondra very gently by the shoulders and brings her back

to her seat.

He is still very nervous.

She is crying.

He sits down.

He has seated himself behind Sondra and puts his hand on her

shoulder.

Casey hits his forehead. Buck is almost crying.

He sits down.

Casey sits down.

She gets up and sits down in front of Bill. She takes the cushion

which was on the armchair and hugs it.

During the following reply, Richie comes and sits behind Sondra.

He stops. He seems ready to cry.

Buck comes and sits next to Clark.

Clark puts his handkerchief on his lips.

He is crying with big tears.

Clark wipes his face again with his handkerchief. He seems to be

extremely moved.

Clark gives his business card to Bill, who takes it. Then he gives

him a kleenex. Bill wipes his eyes.

We see, through the window, light-beams crossing in the sky.

THE WHISKY BAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Usual atmosphere of a well-known bar. At a short distance from the

entrance of the bar, a truck with two floodlights, the beams of

which are sweeping the sky. Those beams make the connection with

the preceding scene.

THE WHISKY BAR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Quick shot on the very noisy orchestra. A long hair bearded guy is

playing the drums, a girl is playing the guitar. Bill, dressed

exactly like in the preceding scene, is looking for someone.

Eventually he founds him, Hector, who is already seated. Bill sits

down at Hector's table. Hector is wearing an open dark pink shirt.

Bill gets up and leaves the bar. Hector gets up behind him and

follows him. They meet back in the street.

THE WHISKY BAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

They put back their jackets.

Hector and Bill are walking slowly in front of the bar.

A pedestrian bumps into Hector.

Hector lays the man on the hood of a car and frisks him.

Hector lets the man go and starts walking again with Bill near the

bar.

They stop walking.

He yells.

Bill has moved slightly away from Hector and turns his back to

him.

Hector mime something (or someone) crashing on the ground. Then he

walks around his car.

Hector gets in his car, while the valet is holding the door for

him. He closes the door and the car moves away, leaving a pensive

Bill on the sidewalk.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Bill comes to the keyhole shaped door. We can see his car parked

behind him. He dial a code on a keyboard and the gate opens behind

the door. He looks cautiously around him before walking further.

He presses a switch to close the gate.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill enters the house. It is very dark. He opens a glass door and

walks slowly, while the door closes behind him. He hesitates a

moment, then walk more decidedly... and falls heavily on the floor !

He stands back up with some difficulty, and discovers that the

whole floor is flooded.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Bill enters the kitchen without switching the light on. He takes a

big butcher's knife in a stand on the table, and looks in the

corridor.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill wades in the flooded corridor. He seems worried and we see

the knife blade shining. He enters the bathroom, the door of which

is wide open, and opens the shower stall. A rush of water runs out

of it. An alarm starts sounding. He goes back into the corridor

and turns off the garden hose faucet.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The alarm has stopped sounding. Bill is wearing short pants and he

is emptying a bucket of water on the lawn. Then he spreads a wet

cloth on the back of a seat. Several other wet clothes are already

drying.

We see Rose entering through the keyhole-shaped door.

Rose gets down the few steps to the garden. She is wearing a light

flowered summer dress.

Bill bursts laughing.

BIG HOTEL - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

We still hear Bill's laugh slowly fading out. We are looking above

the main hall of a big luxurious hotel. Two attendants are pushing

a baggage cart. We move with them to the restaurant room. Bill and

Rose are seated at a table.

BIG HOTEL - RESTAURANT - INTERIOR NIGHT

Close-up on Rose putting lipstick on.

Close-up on Rose putting her lipstick in her glass of water.

In several shots during this dialogue, we see Bill seated in front

of a mirror wall and Rose's reflection in the mirror behind Bill's

back.

BIG HOTEL - MAIN HALL - INTERIOR NIGHT

The main hall seen from above. Bill is crossing the hall with Rose

holding his arm.

BIG HOTEL - HOTEL MAIN ENTRANCE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Rose and Bill are leaving the hotel.

Bill gives a ticket to the car valet.

Rose kisses Bill very tenderly, and even with some spirit. While

kissing, Bill moves Rose to a more discreet place near the

entrance. He strokes her shoulder and gets the strap of her dress

a bit down. Then he moves up the bottom of her dress to stroke her

thigh.

Rose walks to her waiting cab.

She smiles and looks at Bill's crotch.

She opens the cab's door and climbs inside. She waves to Bill.

Rose closes the door and the cabs moves away.

BOB'S OFFICE - BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

The first sentence of the following dialogue is heard voice-over

on a wide shot of the modern glass building where Bob's office is

located.

BOB'S OFFICE - WORKROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bill sits behind the desk. In front of the desk, already seated,

Dale, Richie's brother. He is wearing an open khaki shirt. Bill

wipes his glasses and puts them on. He is wearing an open light-

blue shirt.

They both laugh.

Bill takes his glasses off.

Bill gets up and keeps on talking while walking in the room.

Bill sits back.

Bill gets up.

Dale gets up and shakes Bill's hand.

Bill sits back, but not Dale.

CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY

Tracking shot starting on a large painting showing a naked woman

tied with ribbons. We hear the phone ringing. The answering

machine gets on while the tracking shot moves to a painting

showing another woman naked but for very small leather panties.

She is hung upside down with chains and ropes.

A beep ends the message. The tracking shot moves on to a

motorcycle, looking old, then to another painting showing a

redhead woman wearing a bustier, a garter belt and hoses, all red.

She is standing on hands and knees and she is wrapped with chains.

We hear Bill's voice leaving a message on the answering machine.

A click ends the message. During Bill's message, the tracking shot

moves to a giant plastic statue, with Walt Disney's Pluto's head

on a human male body. Then the tracking shot moves more quickly to

another painting showing a redhead woman wearing a close-fitting

sexy black overall. Then a close shot on a painting of a woman

wearing a harness with spikes. Further away we see another

painting showing a redhead woman being whipped. At the end of

Bill's message, the tracking shots ends on Casey lying supine on a

weightlifting bench. His writs are tied to the vertical bars where

a dumbbell is resting.

We hear the crack of a whip. Since the shot is showing only

Casey's head and chest, we don't see who is whipping him.

Another whip crack.

Whip crack.

Whip crack. The tracking shot starts moving backwards, but with a

larger angle.

Whip crack. Casey's voice is softer. Medium long shot on the room.

Almost hysterical laugh.

ROAD IN FRONT OF BOB'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

We see Bill, bare chest, wearing sneakers short pants and cap,

running toward us. His T-shirt is hanging at his side, partly

stuck in the elastic band of his shorts. Bill stops running when

he reaches the mailbox, hesitates one moment, comes two steps back

and opens the box. Close-up on the box, inside of which a coiled

rattlesnake whips a menacing forked tongue. The snake rattles,

then the front half of the snake jumps out of the box, with its

mouth wide open. Bill falls on the road, where he remains seated

without moving. The snake, with the back half of his body still in

the box, doesn't seem to know what it must do next.

on the other side of the road, the car must zigzag and it barely

avoid driving on Bill.

Yelling to the driver.

The car honks. We get a close-up of the driver when the car comes

very close to Bill.

Bill looks at the departing car and notices a city worker blowing

dead leaves on the bank of the road.

He yells to the city worker, but, with the loud noise of his power

blower, the man does not hears him and remains concentrated on his

work.

Bill crawls back a little, then he eventually stands up. He

crosses the road, and takes a big shovel in the pick-up truck.

He crosses the road back. The snake is back in the mailbox.

Bill hits the box very hard with the shovel. Snake and mail fall

on the road. Bill laughs and throws the shovel on the side of the

road.

Bill stoops to pick up the letters scattered on the road. He looks

at the envelopes.

We see the snake disappearing through the grass on the side of the

road. Bill, with his back to the road, is getting ready to enter

the house. A car stops and honks. Bill turns around to face

Hector.

He comes back to the car. He looks very angry.

He laughs.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR DAY

Bill is washing his arms in the sink.

He dries his arms with a dishcloth.

Bill turns the water off, throws the dishcloth on the sink. Hector

walks in the room while wiping his hands with another dishcloth.

He gets out of the kitchen, followed by Hector.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR DAY

They have come to the hall where the security TV screens are

located. They stop walking.

He whistles, miming, with both hands, something crashing down.

Sound of a buzz. The two men look at the security screen.

Bill taps on the remote control, and Rose appears on the screen.

Bill taps again on the remote control to open the gate, and Rose

leaves the TV screen.

Bill puts the remote control down and follows Hector to the main

gate.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY

Hector is walking to the exit. As he reaches the bottom of the

steps, Rose is going down. Bill, standing behind a low wall, looks

at her coming.

They kiss. Rose takes his hand.

Close-up on their kissing.

They are now at the edge of the pool.

They fall fully dressed in the pool.

her dress off. She wears nothing underneath. We can see a rose

tattooed on her buttock. She slips Bill's short down to his

ankles. We get a brief view of Bill's penis.

Bill is kissing Rose's breasts.

legs, and moves slowly up to her crotch. She has trimmed pubic

hair, but with some left. Still kissing, Bill moves up along her

stomach and reaches hers breasts, which he kisses greedily.

the pool. Rose is lying on him. They are still in the water up to

their waists.

his stomach, then along one of his legs. We get another brief view

of Bill's penis. We notice that it is not erected (certainly to

avoid being X-rated).

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Multiple shots of Bill and Rose making love, seen through the

piece of art. Then tracking shot on the two bodies fondling each

other.

californian sky.

position and their movements suggest, without actually showing it,

that Bill is inside Rose. Bill turns Rose around to put her lying

on her stomach. Rose holds the two sculpted bed posts very

tightly. It is suggested that Bill could be sodomizing her.

orgasm.

Still holding the bedposts. She speaks with a breathless voice.

She turns around to face him.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - DINING-ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Through the window, we notice that the night has fallen. Bill,

seated behind the table, is wearing brown suit and necktie, very

elegant. On the table, wine and water glasses and two chandeliers,

with a lighted candle. In front of Bill, a plate with food. Rose

enters the field, carrying another plate, which she sets on the

other side of the table.

that Rose is naked.

Rose moves the plate to her left, showing her naked body though

the glass table.

She stands up laughing. Fade out on the next scene.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Long scene on the couple making love standing under the shower.

Fade out on the next scene.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bill wakes up, naked, and alone in the bed. One of his hand is

cuffed to one of the bedpost with a long strap. He laughs.

ARCHIVES ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

An archives room, congested with shelves from floor to ceiling. On

these shelves, hundreds, and perhaps thousands, of files, stacked

not too cleanly. Bill is leaning on one of the shelves. The

archivist, a forty-year old lady, appears from behind another

shelf, apparently coming down some steps. Bill stands up.

She starts walking between two rows of shelves. Bill follows her,

putting his glasses on.

He tries to read above her shoulder.

She flips a page in the file.

Bill tries to come back to the preceding page, but the archivist

looks angrily at him, silently meaning he is going a bit too far.

She closes the file, and keeps on walking between the rows of

shelves, followed by Bill.

SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

The room is decorated in quite a luxurious way, but with a lot of

good taste. Paintings on the walls. Bed covered with an

embroidered bedspread, and many cushions. At the foot end of the

bed, a small upholstered bench.

which they throw on the bed.

Bonnie takes one of the parcel, a large white box.

She takes a white dress out of the box. For the first time, we see

a close-up of her face, and we discover she is Rose, different

hairdo, a lot of almost vulgar make-up, but still, she is Rose.

She shamelessly takes off the dress, and, as she wears no bra, she

stands naked, save for her panties, in front of Sondra.

She laughs. Sondra freezes watching the naked body of her friend.

She has put the white dress on.

She seems very moved.

She gets up from the bed to zip up Rose's dress.

They both laugh. Sondra goes back sitting on the bed and looking

through the parcels.

She waves the earrings in front of Rose's face.

Rose takes off the large rings she is wearing to replace them by

the earrings Sondra just gave her. She sighs.

Sondra doesn't move, feeling very embarrassed by the idea of

undressing in front of her friend.

She eventually gets up, an starts taking off the belt from her

suit. Rose is putting her jacket on. A long silence : Sondra looks

more and more embarrassed. She snickers stupidly. Rose looks at

her without really understanding what's going on.

She sits back on the bed.

She bends to her.

The phone rings. Rose starts laughing.

She takes the phone.

She seems embarrassed. Rose is making funny faces.

She stammers a little.

She goes to the window and moves the curtain aside. We see Bob's

car in the street.

STREET IN FRONT OF SONDRA'S RESIDENCE -- BOB'S CAR - EXTERIOR DAY

Bill drives and holds his car phone on his ear.

Bill hangs up his car phone.

SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR DAY

She is looking at herself in the full-length mirror.

When she hears Sondra's last reply, Rose's carefree face becomes

very anxious.

She starts gathering her belongings.

She puts the telephone back on its stand and takes Rose's arm.

She closes her purse and puts it over her shoulder.

She turns to Rose to look at her face.

Rose kisses Sondra tenderly on the lips.

She leaves the room. Sondra seems very disturbed by the kiss. She

puts her hands on her chest.

SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - HALL AND SITTING-ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Rose gets quickly down the stairs. Chimes. Rose gets large

sunglasses out of her purse and adjust them on her nose before

opening the front door.

outside as fast as possible. Through a low window, we see her

going down the stairs to the street.

taste expensive furniture, nice paintings, concert piano.

turns to her.

She closes the front door, which had remained open.

He enters the sitting-room, followed by Sondra.

He sits on a cushions-covered sofa.

She sits on a small sofa without back.

She simpers a little.

He gets up.

He goes to the window and looks at the children playing in a park.

She has tears in her eyes.

He comes back to her.

He sits on the bench of the piano.

She laughs nervously.

She sighs.

She gets up.

She gets upset.

She gets more and more upset.

She sits back. Bill has been listening to her outburst without

reacting.

immediately. Her angry face becomes suddenly softer.

She gets up and sniffs a bit.

She goes to the front door and opens it to a very muscular young

man wearing a sleeveless T-shirt.

Chris just nods his head.

Bill gets out. As soon as the door is closes, Sondra literally

jumps in Chris' arms, and starts giggling.

She bursts laughing.

street. He stops for two seconds to look at the tender couple !

DALE'S WORKSHOP - PARKING - EXTERIOR DAY

Bob's car stops in front of a slightly dilapidated building, on a

desert parking lot. The building could be an old factory

reconverted by Dale into a workshop to make his furniture. A very

high chimney above the building.

car and walks toward the building. He passes a board that

indicates the location of the office. He knocks at a door with a

window and a grating and a sign that says beware of the dog. The

dog starts barking. Bill knocks again. He tries to look through

the door window. The dog keeps on barking.

front of a window and bends to try to see something inside. He

knocks on the window. He turns around, and we catch a quick

glimpse of someone behind the window.

are unloading.

One of the men nods and shows the main door to Bill.

DALE'S WORKSHOP - INTERIOR DAY

Entrance of the workshop. The door opens and Bill appears. He

takes off his sunglasses, puts them in the pocket of his shirt and

gets in.

On the roof of a small structure (perhaps the quoted office)

sits the impressive statue of a lion who gives the impression to

watch Bill.

Someone must be using a blowtorch in the neighborhood.

working. He approaches one of them, wearing a sleeveless T-shirt,

and who is welding, with a protection mask covering his face.

The man stands up and puts down the piece he was welding. He

raises his mask : It's Dale.

Dale shuts his blowtorch off.

He takes off his mask, then his protection gloves.

Dale goes around a huge, geometrically shaped, metallic structure.

He starts working on the metallic structure, but stops to look at

Bill.

He has taken protection glasses to work.

NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY

Bill gets out of his car. He is wearing light-colored pants, a

shirt, and a very elegant leather jacket. He walks up a few steps

toward the house.

of the house. Above the door, two similar faces are carved in the

stone. Probably Doctor Niedelmeyer's face.

appears.

She slams the panel shut. A few seconds, then she opens the door.

She angrily slams the door shut.

Voice over through the door.

Bill sighs, then walks away from the door. The camera moves above

the door and ends up on a close-up of Niedelmeyer's carved face,

who seems to sneer at Bill.

BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Night is falling on L.A. Clark, in the foreground, is counting

books. Behind him, Richie, Buck and Casey are seated, Casey in his

favorite hand-shaped armchair. Sondra is standing up.

Sondra sits down and Casey sits in another armchair.

He just came in and is standing by the window. He is wearing his

glasses, jeans, open shirt and a light grey jacket. He turns

around to speak to the group.

Finishing a sentence the beginning of which was not

understandable.

She is - a bit lasciviously - sprawled in her armchair.

He has seated himself in the hand-shaped armchair.

Buck snickers.

Casey snickers.

He gets ups, walks to a cupboard, opens its door and takes a cup.

The whole group laughs. Bill smiles while pouring himself a

coffee.

He comes back with his cup in his hand.

He is playing with a small statue of a monkey who looks at a

skull.. He waits a few seconds, and puts the statue down before

speaking.

He smiles.

He is suddenly moved on the verge of tears.

He jumps.

He lights a cigarette.

Casey puts his foot on the ashtray to prevent Buck from using it.

He gets up.

He sits on a small armchair by a glass table with an ashtray on

it.

He picks up the ashtray and moves to sit in a more comfortable

armchair.

He has taken his glasses off.

Bill smiles.

He is playing with the statue of the monkey.

He puts the statue down and gets up.

Richie opens the cupboard, takes a can of Pepsi and opens it.

He cuts him very curtly.

He is manicuring with his handkerchief.

She gets up from her armchair.

Buck snickers.

He gets ups, looking angry.

He walks nervously to the door. Sondra remains standing, looking a

bit embarrassed.

He snickers.

He slams furiously the door.

Buck snickers.

He puts down the file he was holding in his hand.

CLARK'S RESIDENCE - STREET IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE - EXTERIOR DAY

A quiet little street, surrounded by houses an buildings of good

standing. Children in roller skates are playing hockey on the

pavement.

Bob's car arrives in the street. The children moves away to let it

pass. While Bill is parking the car, we hear, in voice over, the

beginning of the conversation between Bill and Clark. Bill is

wearing a light-colored shirt and beige pants.

Voice over.

CLARK'S RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Walls are white, furniture modern, but with good taste. Everything

is meticulously clean and tidy. Bill sits in an armchair. Clark is

standing by the window.

He takes off his sunglasses and gets regular glasses from his

shirt pocket. He is wearing disposable gloves.

He puts his glasses on.

He sits down and sighs.

He puts his sunglasses in his shirt pocket, gets back up and start

walking in the room.

While talking, he sprays a liquid from a can on his plants.

Bill sneers.

He goes to a closet, from which he gets a paper bag. From the bags

he takes out a tattered piece of clothing.

FREEWAY, THEN ROAD - EXTERIOR DAY

Cars on the freeway. Among them Bob's car. The car phone is

ringing. Bill picks up the phone, while he keeps on driving. He is

wearing sunglasses.

Giggly voice sounding like a child's voice.

Bill looks around him on the freeway, and sees a red car on his

right.

Strange sounding giggles.

Bill puts the phone down and speeds the car up to avoid the red

car which is still following him. The red car catches up with him

and bumps into him. Bill jumps up.

The red car bumps into him a second time, and looses part of its

radiator grill.

downtown.

honking.

gets honked by the other cars. In spite of the very dangerous

driving of Bill among the other cars, the red car keeps on

following him.

bumps into a pickup truck full of kits and gears which fall on the

pavement.

up with Bill, overtakes him, and bumps violently into Bill's car

right side.

The red car hits him on the right side twice in a row.

Bill hits the red car on its left side and remains stuck to it.

They move together, and Bill tries to bring the red car as close

to the curb as possible.

The red car is so close to the curb that it snatches away the open

door of a parked car, and then knocks down the shopping caddie of

a woman. Fortunately, the woman is able to move away, but all her

shopping items are scattered on the pavement. The two car bump

again into each other and arrive into a main road.

the brake and the red car hits a big truck carrying cars. The

truck honks and start zigzagging in the traffic. The last car on

the upper bridge of the truck gets loose and falls on the road.

Bill barely avoids it. Another car gets loose from the truck and

causes a pile-up on the road.

railway. A train is approaching. The red car is still behind Bill.

Bill brakes suddenly just after he has crossed the railway, then

starts moving backwards. He hits the front of the red car, and

keeps on moving backwards until he brings the red car on the

railway itself. The train keeps on honking to move the cars away.

We see the driver of the train working madly on his brake, and

looking to the red car with terror in his eyes.

forward and the red car quickly moves backward.

We see the train moving behind him.

MEXICAN BAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

A Mexican bar, where Hector is a regular. The first shot shows two

hands playing the harp. Then we get a larger shot and we see

Hector and Bill talking together. Bill is carrying his jacket on

his arm, and Hector is wearing his necktie very loose.

drinking and some are seated to eat. Electric lines with colored

bulbs are hung in the trees. In the back, the orchestra keeps on

playing.

He kisses a passing Mexican woman.

He takes him by the shoulders. They walk out of the field, and we

see kids hitting a puppet hanging from a tree with a bat. The

puppet is dressed in a cop's costume !

Hector and Bill come to the buffet table.

He gets a notebook from his pocket.

He takes a plate and starts helping himself at the buffet.

He takes a tray and starts reading. A woman is serving him from

the buffet.

A very bright light, coming from above, suddenly shines on the

bar. Hector and Bill raises their heads. We hear the engine of a

helicopter and a voice coming from a loudspeaker.

We see the helicopter and its powerful floodlight.

We get a better view of the helicopter. The word police is

written on its fuselage. Two uniformed cops are standing on the

right skid. One has a megaphone.

The crowd starts singing, accompanied by the Mexican orchestra.

Bill and Hector come in front of the crowd, and look up.

People yell and whistle.

One of the cops standing on the right skid is a woman. She gets

her pants down and shows her buttocks to the crowd. Another cop,

on the other skid, has another megaphone.

The helicopter flies away.

In a corner of the bar, Bill and Hector are eating quietly.

Thunder rumbles and the first drops of rain start falling. The two

men get up to find a shelter.

People stop dancing and run to find a shelter.

BUCK'S RESIDENCE - STREET IN FRONT OF HOUSE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

It's raining. Bill drives with lights on and roof closed. On the

side of the car, we can see the dents from the chase with the red

car. Bill stops in front of a big vehicle. He switches off the car

lights, gets out of the car, and pulls the collar of his jacket

up. He stops near a car parked in front of Buck's house. He goes

round the vehicle. There is a bullet hole in the windshield. Bill

touches the bullet hole. He then walks toward the house, and stops

in front of the open garage door. Inside is a red car. Bill enters

the garage to have a better look at the car. When he gets up after

inspecting the car, we see Buck standing behind him. Bill turns

around. Buck has a gun in his hand.

Slowly Buck starts walking toward the inside of the house. Bill

starts walking too in front of Buck. They enter the house.

BUCK'S RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

They get inside the house, which is lit only by the street lights

and a unique lamp above the desk.

practical.

Buck gets into the bathroom, the door of which is wide open, and

grabs a towel. He dries himself and throw the towel to Bill. Bill

sits down. Buck sits down on an armchair covered with a tartan

rug. Bill dries his face. He looks at the gun, still in Buck's

hand.

Buck shoves angrily the gun between the armrest and the cushion of

his seat. He lies back in his armchair which rocks a little. Bill

takes his jacket off.

his hands on his face. He moans.

Another lightning. Buck puts his hands on his head.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARAGE - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The rain has stopped, but the ground is still wet. The garage door

opens slowly and Bob's car enters the garage. The roof is still

closed. Bill is on the phone.

MAIN POLICE STATION - INTERIOR NIGHT

A telephone rings in an empty office, separated by a glass

partition from the corridor. The door is open and Anderson comes

running in, with a ready-cooked dish in his hand. He picks up the

phone.

Low-angle shot of the office, showing the high ceiling, with a

vintage decoration, contrasting with the modern and functional

furniture.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INSIDE CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

The car has stopped but Bill still holds the phone.

MAIN POLICE STATION - INTERIOR NIGHT

Same low-angle shot.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INSIDE CAR - EXTERIOR NIGHT

He puts the phone down, gets his car keys and his jacket, and

leaves the car.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Bill gets out of the car and seems very intrigued by the fact that

the keyhole-shaped door is open. He shuts his car door, and walks

quietly toward the house. He looks around him in the garden,

seeming more and more anxious. Finally, he enters the house.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - CORRIDOR - INTERIOR NIGHT

Still anxious, Bill walks along the corridor.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - KITCHEN - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill enters the kitchen. A lot of cooking ingredients scattered on

the table. A noise makes Bill turn around. Rose, who was kneeling

behind the table, stands up. She smiles when she sees Bill.

She snickers. The only piece of clothing she is wearing is a hotel

room-maid white apron.

Bill doesn't react at all. He looks shocked.

She crosses the room to get something in a drawer, showing her

naked buttocks. All of a sudden, she seems to remember she is

naked and put the two square fireproof cloths she is holding on

her buttocks.

She laughs then comes back to the stove, where she moves a dish.

She seems not to understand Bill's anger.

He waits a few second before he cools down.

She is crying. Bill comes to her and takes her in his arms.

He gives a quick look at her naked body. She laughs.

They kiss.

She laughs and goes away from him and back to her cooking.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - DINING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill, with his shirt completely open, eats spaghettis in front of

a lighted candle. Rose also eats spaghettis, still dressed only in

her white apron. Bill drinks from a glass of white wine. Rose

bites into a asparagus in a slightly erotic way. Under the glass

table, we can see Bill's naked foot stroking Rose's foot. With her

other foot, Rose moves Bill's pants up. Rose slides down on her

chair, so Bill can reach her feet with his hands. Then Rose slides

completely out of her chair and under the table.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

A toy remote-controlled tank is moving on Rose's naked legs. The

shot gets larger and we discover that Rose is in a bathtub full of

foaming water.

Voice over.

The tank moves on Rose's pubis, then on her stomach.

The tank skid on Rose's naked skin and doesn't succeed in climbing

on her breast. We then see she is lying on her back on Bill's

naked body, who is also lying on this back in the bathtub.

They both laugh. We see Bill's hand holding the remote control.

The tank skids into the water and stops.

Voice ironically disappointed.

She turns around and we guess she is grabbing Bill's penis under

water.

They kiss.

She turns around to kiss him.

LOS ANGELES CENTRAL MARKET - MARKET BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Tracking shot down a high glass building until it reaches the

entrance of the Grand Central Market.

The camera is now on street level and we see Bill and Anderson

crossing the street towards the main gate of the market. They pass

a truck delivering fresh meat.

They enter the market.

LOS ANGELES CENTRAL MARKET - INSIDE THE MARKET - INTERIOR DAY

They walk in the market alleyways. Anderson stops near a stall,

and starts talking to a stall-holder we do not see.

Two uniformed cops are walking between the stalls. Anderson raises

his voice to them.

He throws a chicory to a cop, who catches it.

The cops are gone away. Anderson lowers his voice.

He laughs nervously.

Anderson takes two little wrapped packages from the unseen stall-

holder and gives one to Bill.

He follow Anderson between the stalls.

They have come to a fishmonger stall. The fishmonger wraps a fish

for Anderson.

CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY

Casey is lying on an exercise bench and lifting weight with a

pulleys and cables device.

A beep, then Bill's voice.

A hand appears holding a leather collar, which the hand wraps

around Casey's neck.

He snickers while the hand tighten the collar around his neck.

CASEY'S LOFT - PARKING IN FRONT OF THE BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Bob's car stops in front of the building. Bill, wearing

sunglasses, gets out of the car and walks toward a three-story,

impressive but a bit dilapidated, brick building. Evidently, it is

an old workshop changed into an artist's loft. We can still read

Nate Starkman & Son on the front of the building.

button. No answer. He tries again. He raises his head to the above

windows. No one. He walks a few steps back to get a better view of

the building.

He yells.

CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY

Casey is still lying on his exercise bench. Both his hands are

tied to the weight-lifting device, and his mouth is gagged. He

groans through the gag.

CASEY'S LOFT - PARKING - EXTERIOR DAY

He puts his hands around his mouth to make his voice louder.

He comes back to the door and presses the intercom button several

times. He raises his eyes and notice a folded fire-exit ladder. He

test the strength of the folding gate pulled in front of one of

the doors. It seems strong enough for him to climb it. He reaches

the ladder, which he brings down.

CASEY'S LOFT - ROOF OF THE BUILDING - EXTERIOR DAY

Bill is now on the roof of the building. He jumps down in a sort

of yard, in which are scattered various objects : plants, modern

furnitures and a full-size very realistic plastic sculpture of a

cow. Bill remains crouched a few second, pats the cow's snout,

stands up and walks towards a glass wall located on one side of

the yard. He notices he is above Casey's workshop. He walks along

the glass wall to a closed window, from which smoke is coming out.

Bill succeeds in forcing the window open. A big cloud of smoke

gets out of it.

He walks through the open window.

CASEY'S LOFT - INTERIOR DAY

Bill walks on the upper gallery, coughing with the smoke. He takes

off his sunglasses. Down he sees flames around the mantlepiece. He

gets very quickly down the steps to ground level.

burning on the floor around the mantlepiece. He first tries to put

the flames out with his foot, then he takes a small shovel and

shovel the flaming papers back into the mantlepiece.

flooding the room with bright light.

have been lacerated. On each one, it is the face of a red-hair

woman which has been taken away. Bill runs back to the

mantlepiece, where he picks up a piece of what he first thought

was a piece of paper, but which is actually a piece of canvas from

the paintings. On the half-burned piece of canvas, the face of a

woman, who is heavily made up but looks slightly like Rose.

the floor. He turns around to try to find out more about this

slimy liquid.

line, start moving toward him. Behind the paintings, hooked on the

same cable, comes Casey's body, hanging upside down. He looks dead

and sill have the gag on this mouth. The half-naked body is

covered with graffitis. The slimy liquid on the floor is Casey's

blood.

Suddenly the blood, which was grey seen through Bill's eyes, turns

red.

A ROAD - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Sondra's car. Sondra is driving. Rose is on the passenger seat,

with her Bonnie's hairdo and make-up. The car radio is playing a

song.

Honking. Two thirty-year old men, in an open convertible red car.

Rose bends over Sondra and kisses her tenderly.

The two men look disappointed. Their car speeds up and goes away.

The two women start laughing. Rose stands up through the open roof

of the car. She waves to the passing cars. She then sits down and

moves tenderly very close to Sondra.

Rose takes Sondra's hand and guide it under her skirt toward her

crotch.

Sondra bursts laughing and takes her hand away. Rose keeps on

cuddling Sondra who tries to concentrate on her driving.

SONDRA'S RESIDENCE - BEDROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Music from preceding scene has gone on without interruption. The

two girls are dancing in front of the mirror. Sondra is wearing a

tight-fitting black dress and Rose a skirt and a short top which

shows her belly.

While Sondra moves away to change the music, Rose goes to the

window. In the house across the street, she sees a couple kissing.

The music stops.

She comes near Rose.

She bends down under the window sill and get Sondra down too.

They get up and keep on watching.

They laugh.

The two girls start cuddling each other. Sondra strokes Rose's

naked stomach, then her face.

between the girls legs.

The camera remains on the mirror, which shows the two girls

climbing on the bed to get a better look.

We see the couple in the house across the street. She is only

wearing panties and her breast is naked. He is only wearing his

trunks. They flirt on the couch.

Back to the mirror shot. The two girls, still standing up, are

slapping each other buttocks. Rose raises Sondra's dress.

She sits on the bed and picks up a champagne glass.

Sondra comes and sits next to her. Rose gives her her glass.

Sondra drinks.

Sondra gives the glass back to Rose, who puts it on a furniture.

The two faces come very close, and the two girls start exchanging

tender little kisses. Then Rose moves Sondra's dress down and

takes her own top off, showing her breast. Sondra seems very moved

by what she sees. She strokes Rose's face. Their lips are getting

very close.

the top of her skirt, showing her buttocks. We see the tattooed

rose.

She moves her face away from Sondra.

She sobs a little.

She strokes her hair.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR DAY

Bill sleeps on a leather couch, dressed with a western-style shirt

and jeans. There is a gun on the low table near his head. We hear

a buzz. Bill wakes up, gets up and looks at the security TV set.

He takes the remote control to change the camera.

After two unsuccessful pictures, Rose appears on the screen. She

is wearing very short pants, a flowered blouse knotted under her

breast and a small backpack.

Bill opens the gate and looks through the window at Rose crossing

the garden.

Rose enters the room, puts her backpack down and falls in Bill's

arms.

They kiss.

She opens her blouse. She doesn't wear a bra and her nipple

appears.

They both laugh. She covers and uncovers her nipple. They kiss

tenderly.

She cries.

Time has elapsed. They are now seated next to each other. Bill is

bare-chest and Rose is wearing one of Bill's denim shirts. They

look at a photo album. Rose puts her finger on the pictures and

Bill tells her who it is.

Rose flips the page. A picture of Bob.

She kisses him tenderly to comfort him.

She flips the page.

He gets up and goes to the shelves. He start looking for another

album.

He sits back next to Rose, and start looking at the new album.

She seems very worried all of a sudden.

Bill looks at her, a bit disconcerted by her unexpected reaction.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY

We hear the birds chirping. By the poolside, Bill is lying on his

back on a mattress. He is wearing sunglasses, and is naked except

for a white towel spread on his pelvis. Rose is lying on her

stomach, head to foot with Bill. She is naked but is wearing one

thick woolen sock on one foot.

She seems very disturbed by the news.

She has tears in her eyes.

He takes off his sunglasses and start getting up, covering his

crotch with the towel.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - BATHROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bill enters the bathroom and turn the shower faucet on. Then he

gets out of the room.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - DRESSING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bill takes a pair of jeans in the closet and puts it on, without

underwear.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Rose has dressed up. She enters the room and goes directly to the

shelf where the photo album was hidden. She gets it and starts

turning the pages.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - UPPER GALLERY - INTERIOR DAY

Bill comes out of the dressing room, and into a gallery above the

sitting room. He sees Rose looking through the album, taking a

picture out of the album and then putting the album back where it

was. He hides behind a wall for her not to see him. She is looking

inside a photo-lab envelope. Bill comes out of his hiding.

She jumps.

She drops the envelope, picks up her backpack and runs out of the

room.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - GARDEN - EXTERIOR DAY

Rose runs to the keyhole-shaped door. The gate opens and Rose runs

out.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - SITTING ROOM - INTERIOR DAY

Bill runs down the stair from the upper gallery. He is bare chest

with his shirt in his hand.

BOB'S RESIDENCE - ROAD IN FRONT OF THE HOUSE - EXTERIOR DAY

Rose gets out of the residence and runs to her car, a small ORV.

She climbs in and starts very fast. Bill gets out of the house.

He jumps into his car without opening the door.

Bob's car get's out of the residence.

MAIN ROAD, THEN CITY STREETS - EXTERIOR DAY

We see Bill driving his car. He chases Rose, whom we then see in

her car. Tires screech with the high speed driving. Bill comes

closer to Rose and tries to memorize her license plate numbers.

The chase goes on. Rose drives very recklessly, Bill too. He

drives through the cross roads without slowing down.

Bill's car, which is driving on the sidewalk. Bill stops near him.

We hear the voice of an angry woman.

BOB'S OFFICE - MEETING ROOM - INTERIOR NIGHT

Outside, night has fallen and it is raining.

He is very smartly dressed, and even wears a bow tie. He counts

the books on the shelves.

He has just come into the room.

He turns toward Sondra.

She is very smartly dressed too, in a white suit with black

collar. She sighs.

He moves rapidly to the shelves.

Bill takes the book and moves away from the shelves. Sondra signs

menacingly to Clark.

Bill has seated himself, and he looks through the book. Sondra

tries to read above his shoulder. Close-up of the book. It is

Bob's diary. Close-up on one paragraph. We hear Bob's voice

reading the paragraph.

Buck enters the room.

Buck starts closing the door, but Richie comes in.

Buck sits down.

Thunder rumbles. Buck puts his hands on his head. Richie looks at

him.

While he is talking, Bill keeps on looking through his friend's

diary. A photo is stuck between two pages. It is a photo of Rose

naked.

He reads what is written on the back of the photo.

He gives the photo to Sondra.

She laughs and brings the picture to her chest.

He tears the picture away from her hands.

He looks at the picture and turns to her.

She bursts laughing, but she has tears in her eyes.

Bill looks intensely at her. Sondra has started sobbing.

He tears the picture away from Buck's hands.

He puts his head in his hands.

He looks at the picture.

Buck tears the picture away from his hands.

They are ready to fight. Sondra comes between them. The three of

them are talking together.

During this heated verbal exchange, Richie has picked the fallen

picture from the floor.

We see Richie putting the picture away and leaving hurriedly.

Lightning, thunder, and the pictures appears close-up in a hand.

It is Hector's hand, who looks at them all, sneering.

He jumps on Hector. Bucks tries to take them apart.

He has succeeded in taking them apart.

He wants to jump again on Hector. Buck holds him back.

Bill looks at Hector, but says nothing.

PALACE HOTEL - HALL - INTERIOR DAY

Revolving door of the entrance of the hotel. People are coming

incessantly in and out. Among them we see Bill coming in. The

following dialogue is in voice over on the shot of the revolving

door.

HOTEL FITNESS CENTER - INTERIOR DAY

Larry, dressed in tracksuit, is working with one of the fitness

devices. Bill is standing in front of him.

He gets up and starts walking in the room. Bill follow him.

HOTEL SWIMMING POOL - INTERIOR DAY

Larry is sitting in a whirlpool. Hot water is bubbling all around

him. Bill is seated by the pool side.

A STREET NEAR THE MAIN POLICE STATION - EXTERIOR DAY

Anderson is walking in the street, a coffee paper cup in his hand.

He is wearing suit and sunglasses, but also a very flashy necktie.

Bill dressed in open shirt and sunglasses, walks toward him.

They start walking together in the street.

Bill answers with a silly smile.

He gets a piece of paper out of his shirt pocket and gives it to

Anderson.

The two men split up. Anderson walks into the police office.

STREETS, THEN PARKING BUILDING IN L.A. - EXTERIOR DAY

Bob's car, still dented all over, starts, with open roof, and Bill

driving. He is wearing sunglasses.

red car, also dented all over. It starts following Bill.

building. The red car climbs to the roof of the building.

car. He starts walking along the building, the red car following

him from the roof.

then starts pushing the car. The car breaks the guardrail and

falls down to the ground. Bill raises his head, sees the car

coming down, jumps away and falls flat on the ground, just

avoiding the falling car, which crashes on two other parked cars.

We see the front of the red car appearing behind the broken

guardrail. Bill bangs his fist on the ground, while pieces of

broken cars are flying all around him.

He yells.

BUILDING WITH GALLERIES - EXTERIOR DAY

A very picturesque building with multiple open air galleries. On

one of the galleries, Anderson walks toward Hector who is pointing

a menacing finger to him.

Full shot of the building. Very typical L.A. architecture, looking

almost like a movie set. Anderson and Hector are leaning against

the bannister of one of the upper galleries.

Close up on Anderson and Hector. Anderson gives to Hector the

piece of paper Bill had given to him. Hector reads the paper.

NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - EXTERIOR DAY

Bill runs to the door of the house. He knocks repeatedly and

forcefully.

Edith Niedelmeyer opens the small panel in the door. She looks

furious.

NIEDELMEYER'S RESIDENCE - INTERIOR DAY

Edith closes the small panel. Several heavy blows on the door,

which eventually crashes open and gives access to Bill.

He follows her through the sitting room. They arrive near a bay

window, behind which we can see a large swimming pool.

Why won't you tell me the truth ?

Edith picks up a cordless phone on a table. Bill tears the phone

away from her hands.

She falls on the armchair in which Bill has pushed her.

She gets up goes to the window bay and open a glass door. She

leans against the frame of the door.

Bill stands still for a few seconds. He has just understood the

truth. Then he sighs and rushes out of the house. He runs near a

impressive mantlepiece decorated with a fierce lion head pulling

its tongue out.

DALE'S WORKSHOP - PARKING - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Bob's car arrives on the empty parking lot in front of Dale's

workshop. The atmosphere is even more uncomfortable at night than

during the day. Lightnings in the sky. There are lights evenly

placed all along the high chimney. Several windows are lit on the

first floor of the building.

and runs toward the building. He enters using the door with the

sign Beware of dog.

DALE'S WORKSHOP - LIVING QUARTERS - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill gets in the living quarters of the Dexter. It is quite dark.

In one corner, a large kitsch statue of Christ of the Sacred

Heart. A sink with two cabinets with glass doors..

DALE'S WORKSHOP - WORKSHOP - INTERIOR NIGHT

Bill walks between statues being worked on. He bumps into a small

cage hanging from the ceiling.

spiderwebs. Something liquid drops on his hand. It's blood. Bill

raises his head.

on a table, and climbs the steps leading to the upper parts of the

workshop.

piece of wood, and walks very cautiously. Richie is seated with

his back to him. He has blood on his T-shirt.

He gets nearer and puts the piece of wood down.

When he is close to Richie, he sees that his T-shirt is badly torn

down and full of blood. He wants to touch it, but Richie starts

moaning. Bill kneels near him.

He can hardly talk, and stammers even more than usual.

He takes off Richie's glasses.

He takes off Richie's wig, and Rose's face appears.

She has gone back to Rose's voice, and doesn't stammer anymore.

She cries.

He is also crying.

Rose moves her eyes down and Bill follows her eyes. He discovers

that Rose's hand has been nailed to the carved armrest of the

armchair.

Bill stands up.

He goes to the table where he had dropped the piece of wood and

start looking for an appropriate tool. He finds a big hammer.

With the forked end of the hammer, he raises the nail.

She cries and yells.

Bill gets the nail off. Rose can't breathe anymore. Her eyes are

rolling upwards.

He feels that she is going away from him.

She goes back to Richie's voice and face. She starts stammering

again.

Still talking like Richie.

Rose's head stands up : she is gone back being Rose.

Bill takes off the other nail.

He helps her to stand up, and then to walk.

They start going down to the workshop.

We hear the sound of a nail-gun, and a nail clicks on a piece of

metal near them.

Several nail-gun shots. Nails are getting stuck in the various

wooden objects around them.

Shot from behind Dale. He holds a nail-gun and keeps on shooting

nails.

He sticks a nail in Bill's shirt. Bill remains nailed against a

carved wooden panel.

She yells and holds Bill tightly.

Bill tries to take the nail off. The nail must have gone through

his flesh, because there is blood on his shirt.

Dale raises his nail-gun slowly, but Hector appears from behind a

wall, holding a real gun.

He talks to Bill who is behind him, but without taking his eyes

away from Dale.

At the end of his sentence, Hector slightly turns his head toward

Bill. Immediately Dale shoots him. Hector bends down a little

because of the pain, and stands back up to shoot Dale. But Dale is

faster than him and nails both of his hands against the wood

panel.

He yells.

Dale keeps on shooting and sticks several nails in Hector's

fingers.

Bill succeeds in getting the nail off his arm. He runs away with

Rose.

we hear an engine starting. Then a whole block of shelves falls in

front of them. We see Dale in a small glass cabin, his hands on

the controls of a handling machine.

... just as a huge piece of furniture falls on Bill, who falls

down, stuck under the furniture.

Dale appears behind Bill, and wraps a leather belt around his

neck. He tightens the belt. Bill suffocates. Dale pulls him by the

belt across the workshop.

He puts him inside a metal cage. He ties the belt on the top of

the cage. Bill tries, with both hands to move the belt away from

his throat.

Dale takes a small electric saw, switches it on and tests it on

the bars of the cage. Sparks spring up.

He is getting angry.

He calms down and smiles.

He coughs.

While talking, he keeps on switching his saw on and off.

He starts his saw. Sparks spring up on the edge of the cage.

He snickers.

He starts his saw again, and slowly moves it close to Bill. We

hear the sound of the nail-gun and a nail gets stuck in Dale's

shoulder. The saw stops. Dale walks back a few steps to face Rose,

holding the nail-gun pointed on him.

He rushes on her. She shoots and sticks a nail in the middle of

his forehead. Dale falls down. Rose starts screaming.

Bill tries to get the belt off his neck. Rose raises the gun to

her throat, and presses the trigger. But it doesn't work. She

tries again. It still doesn't work. The gun must be empty.

Bill eventually succeeds in getting free, but Rose, after she has

thrown the gun away, starts running through the workshop.

He runs after her.

DALE'S WORKSHOP - CHIMNEY - EXTERIOR NIGHT

Rose starts climbing the ladder mounted on the body of the

chimney. Bill follows her and yells.

Rain is soaking both of them, but they keep on climbing. Thunder

is rumbling.

climbing on it.

She sobs.

She has reached the circular platform on the top of the chimney.

She yells.

He reaches the platform.

Rose jumps on the very narrow ring which circles the platform.

She puts her hand out to Bill's strutted hand. We hear the sound

of a high gust of wind, and Rose looses her balance and starts

falling backward.

She yells.

Bill jumps from the platform and catches a chain hanging under the

platform. His momentum makes him swing and he catches Rose's arm

just as she was falling from the outer ring. With his other arm he

holds on the chain and they start swinging back and forth. They

eventually reach the chimney ladder. Rose grabs one of the rungs,

followed by Bill, who pushes her up.

They move back to the platform, and, as soon as they reach it,

they hug each other very tight. Bill looks at the beacon on the

top of the chimney. From white, the beacon becomes red, which is

its real color. Bill smiles : he sees red again. He hugs Rose even

more tightly.

While the camera pans away from the platfom, showing the whole

platform with Bill and Rose holding each other, we hear Hector's

voice.

Bill starts laughing.

Bill keeps on laughing. Rose starts laughing too.

During the credits, we hear the following song :

At the end of the credits, we hear Hector's voice again.

