INT. DARKENED ROOM - DAY

The blade of a knife.

Pulled from its sheath, intricate tribal etchings on the

blade catching the light.

The blade being pulled across a sharpening stone. Swoosh-

swoosh-swoosh. Rhythmic. A well-practiced hand. A muscular,

tattooed arm.

The blade held up. Razor sharp. The glow of a TV in the

darkened room is the only illumination.

We see images on the TV:

GLOBAL AND URBAN STRIFE slums barricades poverty

starvation demonstrations repression refugee

camps barbed wire prisons riot police tear gas

violence...

Then the images settle to now, BREAKING NEWS:

FOOD RIOTS IN ROME. Images of a protest march. A crowd

filling the streets. Soldiers moving into position. We see

placards: "DOGS MUST EAT," "MEAT WAS MADE FOR MOUTHS."

The man sharpening the knife watches the images. His eyes are

cold. Almost disinterested.

Then he stops.

Frozen in mid-stroke.

Something on the TV suddenly rivets him.

His eyes no longer cold.

The TV shows one of the soldiers, a high-ranking officer.

Imperious. Giving orders. We will come to know this is a man

as Caius Martius -- Coriolanus.

TULLUS AUFIDIUS, the man sharpening the knife, gazes at the

image on the screen.

He leans forward. Emerging from the darkness. We see his

face.

He is a handsome and imposing figure, magnetic in his

personality. Charismatic, yes, but also neurotic and edgy.

Uncomfortable in his own skin. Some demons there.

He watches the face of Caius Martius on the TV screen.

2.

Then he puts the point of his knife against the screen.

Against Caius Martius' heart.

Holds it there Presses the point against the screen

Muscles knotting in his forearm As if he could thrust the

knife through the screen and into the heart of Caius

Martius...

His nemesis His dark angel.

Sharp cut to--

EXT. ROME - STREET - DAY

We move with an intense woman down the street. She is

nervous. Checks she is not being followed.

She is TAMORA, an extreme figure on the political landscape.

To the Roman elite she is a dangerous anarchist -- to her

supporters she is an ardent patriot and democrat.

As she moves, we take in Rome.

It might be Mexico City. Or Chechnia. Or El Salvador. Or

Detroit. Or Baghdad. Or London.

This Rome is a modern place. It is our world right now:

immediately recognizable to us. Elements of classical

architecture loom over decay. Monolithic modernism and brave

public monuments are lost in a sea of brazen advertising

billboards, neon shopping plazas and drab super-highways.

Splendor and squalor sit side-by-side.

It is a volatile, dangerous world.

William Shakespeare's Rome.

She comes to a graffiti-covered apartment building. Looks

around. Enters.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

A secret political meeting in a police state.

Tension. Cigarette smoke hangs in the air. Men and women

gathered, hushed and urgent tones. A cell meeting of the

political opposition, the resistance.

A TV shows the food marches elsewhere in the city. The

gathering storm.

CASSIUS is a leading proletariat organizer:

3.

Before we proceed any further, hear me

speak -- You are all resolved rather to

die than to famish?

The others agree. They are not wild-eyed radicals. They are

normal people, from all walks of life. You and me.

First, you know Caius Martius is chief

enemy to the people.

A voice from the back of the room:

Let us kill him.

The others turn. Tamora, just entering, pulls off her coat,

joins the others:

And we'll have corn at our own price. Is

it a verdict?

Some are unsure. She is too extreme for some.

We are accounted poor citizens, the

patricians good The leanness that

afflicts us, the object of our misery,

our sufferance, is a gain to them. Let us

revenge this with our sticks ere we

become rakes! I speak this in hunger

for bread, not in thirst for revenge.

A woman, a YOUNG MOTHER, protests:

Will you proceed especially against Caius

Martius?

Against him first.

A COLLEGE PROFESSOR, speaks up:

Consider you what services he has done

for his country?

Very well, and could be content to give

4.

him good report for it -- but that he

pays himself with being proud.

Nay, but speak not maliciously.

She has over-played her hand. Pretends to back down:

I say unto you, what he hath done

famously, he did it to that end...

(a snarky smile)

He did it to please his mother.

Some laugh at her gossip.

Then the TV image switches to a BREAKING NEWS update:

From the Roman Senate. An august press room. A Senator is

moving to a podium to make a statement.

He is Senator MENENIUS is a seasoned and wily politician.

Silver hair, perfectly tailored suit. He is known as a folksy

"man of the people." It is a role he plays to perfection.

Soft, who comes here?

Worthy Senator Menenius, one that hath

always loved the people.

He's one honest enough; would all the

rest were so.

Why, masters, my good friends, mine

honest neighbors,

Will you undo yourselves?

I tell you, friends, most charitable care

Have the patricians of you,

For your wants,

Your suffering in this dearth, you may as

Strike at the heavens with your staves as

Against the Roman state--

5.

(speaking to the TV)

Suffer us to famish, and their

storehouses crammed with grain--

The others shush her.

Alack, you are transported by calamity

Thither where more attends you; and you

The helms of the state, who care for you

like fathers,

When you curse them as enemies--

Cassius mutes the TV. We see Senator Menenius continuing with

his speech; his attempt to calm the dangerous situation.

Care for us? They never cared for us yet!

If the wars eat us not up, they will: and

that's all the love they bear us.

The others are growing increasingly restive -- shifting --

Why stay we prating here?

No more talking on it!

To the Capitol! Come! Come!

EXT. STREETS - DAY

Tamora, Cassius and the others are now in the midst of the

protest march. The crowd has become a mob, with a life and

will of its own. The crowd surges forward--

They round a corner and suddenly stop--

For a formidable sight awaits them-

RIOT POLICE.

Rows of black uniforms. Full riot gear with plexiglass

shields and dangerous truncheons.

6.

A few soldiers on horses as well.

The crowd starts and shifts nervously, unsure how to proceed.

Should they launch themselves against this monolithic

military force?

A long, tense beat.

Then...

One of the horsemen trots forward...

He rides a beautiful white horse...

It is CAIUS MARTIUS. (Soon to be given the honorary title

Coriolanus.) He is intense and patrician. Uncompromising. A

man of steel. A soldier. He wears a crisp, military uniform.

From his position on the horse, Martius looks over the

rioters...

His gaze is ice...

A long beat...

Then he dismounts...

He slowly walks to the unruly mob...

With no hesitation, unarmed...

He stops before them...

And speaks with absolute disdain.

What's the matter, you dissentious

rogues,

That, rubbing the poor itch of your

opinion,

Make yourselves scabs?

We have ever your good word.

He that will give good words to thee will

Beneath abhorring.

The crowd is hushed. Taking in his every word.

7.

We note a TV news crew has moved into position and is filming

eagerly. Some in the crowd film with cell phone cameras.

Streaming video. We intercut some of these perspectives.

What would you have, you curs?

He that trusts to you,

Where he should find you lions, finds you

Where foxes, geese.

He walks along the front of the crowd. Some are frightened by

the great Martius. Some are even awed. Others glare at him

with loathing.

Who deserves greatness

Deserves your hate...

Hang ye! Trust ye?

With every minute you do change your

mind,

And call him noble that was now your

hate,

Him vile that was your garland.

He continues along the crowd, his cold eyes taking in face

What's the matter,

That in these several places of the city

You cry against the noble Senate, who,

Under the gods, keep you in awe, which

Would feed on one another?

He stops and glares at the mob with seething anger.

He climbs back onto his horse. Stares down at them.

Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS!

A tense beat.

The riot police shift nervously.

The crowd is unsure.

The TV news crew films everything.

8.

Cassius looks around. He sees the police ready with tear gas.

He sees old men, women and children in his crowd. He doesn't

want this to explode.

He exchanges a few whispers works with Tamora. Word is passed

and the crowd begins to disperse. Some run off in a panic.

Others walk away.

The danger has passed.

Senator Menenius, who has been watching from nearby, gestures

for Martius to join him. He is an old family friend of

Martius' as well as his mentor and chief political advisor.

Menenius is relieved bloodshed has been avoided.

These are almost thoroughly persuaded;

For though abundantly they lack

discretion,

Yet are they passing cowardly.

They are dissolved. Hang 'em.

Senator Menenius watches the crowd. Disturbed.

I would they were abed.

I would they were in Tiber.

They move off.

INT. DARKENED ROOM - DAY

We see the TV image of Martius railing at the people from

Go GET YOU HOME, YOU FRAGMENTS!

Tullus Aufidius is leaning in. Watching so closely.

From his POV: the pixilated close-up of Martius' face on the

screen.

He runs his knife blade back and forth. Turns it in the

light; the reflection of Martius' face distorting as he

rotates the blade.

9.

Then Aufidius leans back again.

Back into the shadows. Disappearing.

EXT. MILITARY COMMAND CENTER - DAY

Rome's military headquarters. A high security building like

the Pentagon.

INT. ROMAN WAR ROOM - DAY

Martius is seated with several MILITARY OFFICERS and AIDES.

Also with him is TITUS. He younger than Martius, an old

friend and comrade-in-arms. Like Martius he has seen a lot of

battle.

COMINIUS, an older general, enters. He is an experienced

commander of men also used to dealing with the necessary

politics of civilian oversight. West Point bearing.

All salute. Cominius returns the salute.

The news is the Volsces are in arms.

An aide presses a remote. Grainy video images play on a

monitor: Volscian soldiers, jeeps, tanks.

One section shows a quick image of the rebel leader, a

striking man called Tullus Aufidius, riding past in a jeep.

They have a leader,

Tullus Aufidius, that will put you to it.

I sin in envying his nobility,

And were I any thing but what I am,

I would wish me only he.

You have fought together?

He is a lion

That I am proud to hunt.

Martius takes the remote control. Stops the video. Rewinds to

the unclear image of Aufidius.

10.

Titus Lartius, thou

Shalt see me once more strike at Tullus'

face.

Lead you on.

Martius rewinds and plays the image of Aufidius again,

rewinds and plays it again, almost obsessively.

We push in on the video image of Aufidius...

Aufidius appears to be staring right back at Martius...

And this takes us to...

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING-WAR ROOM - NIGHT

The same face.

Aufidius, who is the leader of the rebel Volscian forces,

stands deep in thought.

The Volsces are an insurgent force challenging the monolithic

might of Rome: rebels that suggest to us Latin American

revolutionaries or Hamas fighters or Chechnian separatists.

They are a dangerous guerilla force.

We are in the Volsce war room in an old apartment building. A

basement. No windows. Secure.

OFFICERS and some civilian POLITICIANS. The room is filled

with military maps, weapons, surveillance photos.

So, your opinion is, Aufidius,

That they of Rome are entered in our

And know how we proceed.

Is it not yours?

Tis not four days gone since I heard

thence.

We never yet made doubt but Rome was

To answer us.

11.

And it is rumored Martius, your old

enemy, leads in their preparation.

He tosses a glossy magazine on the desk, a picture of Martius

on the cover.

Aufidius' eyes spark at the image of Martius.

He picks up the magazine and carefully tears off the cover

picture of Martius, looking at the picture deeply.

He continues with a strange and grim fire:

If we and Caius Martius chance to meet,

'Tis sworn between us we shall ever

Till one can do no more.

By the elements,

If ever again I meet him beard to beard,

He's mine or I am his.

EXT. MARTIUS VILLA - DAY

A beautiful butterfly. Catching the light perfectly, almost

iridescent.

It floats before a palatial mansion in the suburbs of the

great city. Manicured lawns. Formal gardens. Classical

architectural lines.

This fine home of aristocratic privilege seems a world away

from the urban blight of Rome.

In the immaculate front gardens YOUNG MARTIUS, Martius' son,

is playing. The boy is about ten. There is something grim and

lonely about him, without charm.

Young Martius chases after the butterfly, trying to catch it.

He fails. The butterfly flits away. Young Martius leaps after

it. Again he misses.

Finally the frustrated boy manages to catch the butterfly. In

his rage he tears it to pieces, brutally shredding it.

We realize he is being observed...

INT. MARTIUS VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

. VIRGILIA, Martius' wife, stands at the window. Disturbed

by the sight of her son ripping apart the butterfly.

12.

She sees Young Martius stop and look at the tiny bit of blood

on his fingers. Young Martius is unmoved. He glances up.

Locks eyes with his mother.

She turns away.

Virgilia was well-chosen for her role as wife to one of

Rome's most aristocratic men. She is beautiful and graceful

but -- like Diana thrown into lion's den of the Windsor

family -- woefully out of her depth. We feel an inner

fragility to her.

The room is spacious and elegantly appointed. A lovely Roman

statue in one corner. This is a place of wealth, order and

control.

A fine flat-screen TV flickers with images of war. We see

correspondents Tanks Combat Romans . Volscians.

VOLUMNIA, Martius' mother, stands and watches the TV. She is

an imposing woman, handsome and tall, impeccably dressed.

Adamantine in her strength.

Virgilia moves from the window. Sits on a sofa. She watches

the TV news footage of the war, upset by the images.

A frozen silence.

I pray you, daughter, sing, or express

yourself in a more comfortable sort. If

my son were my husband, I should more

freely rejoice in that absence wherein he

won honor than in the embracements of his

bed where he would show most love.

She moves across the room to fetch a cigarette. She moves,

always, with stately grace.

She walks past a series of photographs. They tell the story

of Martius' life: the happy baby; the stern dead father; the

rigid young military cadet; the formal wedding; the

restrained and unsmiling adult.

In the photos we sense a transformation: innocent boy to

experienced, severe looking soldier. Volumnia is present in

most of the pictures.

13.

When yet he was but tender-bodied and the

only son of my womb, I, considering how

honor would become such a person, was

pleased to let him seek danger where he

was like to find fame.

She lights her cigarette.

To a cruel war I sent him, from whence he

returned, his brows bound with oak.

But had he died in the business, madam,

how then?

Then his good report should have been my

son.

(she rivets Virgilia)

Had I a dozen sons I had rather have

eleven die nobly for their country than

one voluptuously surfeit out of action.

A MAID enters. She speaks to Volumnia (the true mistress of

the house) not to Virgilia.

Madam, Senator Menenius is come to visit

you.

Tell Menenius we are fit to bid him

welcome.

The Maid goes.

Beseech you, give me leave to retire

myself.

Indeed, you shall not!

She turns off the TV and goes to a bar to mix drinks. She

mixes the drinks aggressively, strangely inspired by the

discussion of war:

Methinks I hear hither your husband's

Methinks I see him stamp thus, and call

14.

"Come on, you cowards! You were got in

fear,

Though you were born in Rome." His bloody

Then wiping, forth he goes.

His bloody brow? 0 Jupiter, no blood...

Away, you fool! It more becomes a man

Than gold his trophy.

Heavens bless my lord from fell

Auf idius ...

He'll beat Aufidius' head below his knee

And tread upon his neck.

Senator Menenius enters, he is comfortable in this house and

an old ally of Volumnia's.

My ladies both, good day to you.

Volumnia hands him one of the drinks she has been mixing: a

perfect martini. She knows how he takes his drink. She is not

above flirting with him when it suits her ends.

How do you both?

And how does your little son?

I thank you, sir; well, good.

He had rather play with swords and hear a

drum than look upon his schoolmaster.

On my word, the father's son!

He and Volumnia laugh.

Menenius has sensed Virgilia's tension. Tries to cheer her:

Come, I must have you play the idle

housewife with me this afternoon.

15.

No, good sir, I will not out of doors.

Not out of doors!

She shall, she shall.

Indeed, no, by your patience. I'll not

over the threshold till my lord return

from the wars.

Fie, you confine yourself most

unreasonably.

I cannot go hither.

You would be another Penelope; yet they

say all the yarn she spun in Ulysses'

absence did but fill Ithaca full of

moths.

No, good sir, pardon me; indeed, I will

not forth.

Go with me and I'll tell you excellent

news of your husband.

0, good sir, there can be none yet.

There came news from him last night.

Volumnia pounces, moving in:

Indeed?

Your lord and Titus Lartius are set down

before the Volscian city of Corioles.

They nothing doubt prevailing and to make

it brief wars This is true, on mine

honor; and so, I pray, go out with us.

16.

Give me excuse, good sir. I will obey you

in everything hereafter.

Let her alone. As she is now, she will

but disease our better mirth.

She takes Menenius arm and pulls him out, eager for more news

of her son.

Virgilia sits for a beat.

Then she presses a button on the remote control. The TV goes

on again. More news reports of the war.

We see images of the Volscian town of Corioles. A "BREAKING

NEWS" scroll runs across the bottom of the screen The

Battle for Corioles

Virgilia watches the war footage, her eyes haunted.

Hard cut to--

EXT. CORIOLES - DAY

BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! A series of explosions jolt us.

Corioles is a small urban center. Smoke billows up from areas

of the city. The steady crack and rattle of gunfire. The

occasional thud of explosions.

We see urban street-to-street fighting. The images are

startling in their familiarity: this could be Basra or

Belfast.

The battle is photographed in a gritty exposure. Color is

drained out -- blood is a darker red like oil. Soldiers are

dark forms moving through shadows and smoke.

Martius and Titus, leading a platoon of around twenty Roman

SOLDIERS, run into view and take cover. Bullets zip and snap

around them.

The Roman soldiers wear modern battle fatigues and body

armor, tricked out with all the latest tech gear. The

Volscians, being a poor guerilla force, wear thrown together

uniforms that look almost tribal.

Martius calls over the incessant din of battle to Titus and

17.

They fear us not, but issue forth their

city.

Sniper bullets slam into a wall near him. He coughs away the

smoke and debris. This only makes him more angry:

They do disdain us much beyond our

thoughts,

Which makes me sweat with wrath!

He that retires, I'll take him for a

Volsce,

And he shall feel mine edge!

Martius leaps up and races on. The others follow in military

order.

The Roman soldiers move along the street -- it is chaotic --

explosions, smoke and sniper fire -- they duck into doorways

and behind abandoned cars -- returning fire as best they can--

Martius leads -- firing stead bursts from his machine gun--

It is slow and bloody going--

Finally the Romans turn a corner and are stopped by a

roadblock: a burning bus that fills the entire street--

The Volsces use this roadblock to ambush the Roman soldiers--

We see glimpses of Volscian soldiers darting for position --

firing from rooftops and from inside shops--

INT. BLASTED HOTEL ROOM - DAY

Aufidius runs into a blasted hotel room. Some of his soldiers

with him.

He goes to the window. Scans the street below. Sees Martius

and the others trapped at the bus. He gestures to an aide for

EXT. CORIOLES-STREET - DAY

In the face of the crossfire, the Roman soldiers start

Martius refuses to yield -- pushing and shoving his men

toward the burning bus -- screaming in fury over the noise:

18.

You souls of geese,

That bear the shapes of men! PLUTO AND

HELL!

All hurt behind! Backs red, and faces

With flight and agued fear! Mend and

charge home,

Or, by the fires of heaven, I'll leave

AND MAKE MY WARS ON YOU!

An EXPLOSION -- dirt and brick shards slash across Martius'

face -- blood--

This only pushes his fury to white rage--

Look to it. Come on!

FOLLOW ME!

He leaves his soldiers behind--

Moves alone to the burning bus and fights his way through the

Martius is in his own world now. He doesn't even realize he

is alone. He has become a sort of killing machine. A shark

moving through the ocean. Ruthless and efficient.

We become the warrior.

From Martius' POV:

We move through disorienting curtains of smoke...

Continue down the street...

Firing a heavy machine gun...

Volscian soldiers contort and die, torn to pieces by the

bullets...

The heavy machine gun is empty, we drop it and use a sidearm,

firing strategic shots...

Volscian soldiers dart up -- fire -- and die...

We keep moving steadily forward...

Shadowy shapes moving nearby, we fire. Killing civilians. The

fortunes of war...

19.

Strange surreal images. We smash into a house. An OLD MAN

crouches, terrified, in a corner. He reaches forward. He is

offering us water. An act of kindness amid the carnage...

We move on...

Panicked civilians, scattering in terror...

Volscian soldiers rush us, attacking, we slam them aside...

We duck down, roll under a car, emerge and fire...

More Volscians die...

We continue forward...

Then the pistol is empty, we drop it and pull a machete-like

knife...

Still moving relentlessly forward...

Slashing and killing...

Hand-to-hand now...

Carnage.

EXT. CORIOLES-ALLEY - DAY

Aufidius and his aides are racing down an alley, trying to

get to Martius--

Roman fire stops them--

They return fire as they divert down another alley, trying

for a better strategic position, running flat out--

EXT. CORIOLES - LATER

Titus and the soldiers are still pinned down at the burning

bus. Two soldiers race back to Titus to report, they dive for

cover.

What is become of Martius?

Slain, sir, doubtless.

He is himself alone,

To answer all the city.

20.

Thou art lost, Martius...

Titus has no time to mourn. He looks over the hopeless

situation. Scanning the rooftops, windows and shops.

Then he stops He sees something Past the burning bus

Through the smoke and flames...

He glimpses a ghostly figure...

Who's yonder,

That does appear as he were flayed?

0 gods! He has the stamp of Martius.

It is indeed Martius.

A shocking sight.

Drenched head-to-toe in blood.

His face splattered with gore.

His eyes wild.

Lost in something like rapture.

Come I too late?! Come I too late?!

Ay, if you come not in the blood of

others,

But mantled in your own.

Martius laughs wildly and embraces Titus, who comes away

splattered with blood:

0, let me clip ye

In arms as sound as when I wooed, in

As merry as when our nuptial day was

done!

SUDDENLY -- a deafening explosion -- and RPG EXPLODING from

nearby. Then gunfire. Bullets shatter windows. The Volscians

are attacking again.

The Romans instantly begin diving for cover and taking up

21.

Martius scans the location. Sees the attack is coming from an

old Hilton hotel. Now pockmarked with bullets and artillery

shells. Most of the windows shattered.

This is the Volscian stronghold. The last stand. He sees

flashes of Volscian soldiers moving on the roof and

balconies, and snipers firing from windows.

There is an open plaza, littered with bodies and debris, in

front of the hotel.

Martius stops scanning with his binoculars--

Sees Aufidius moving in the hotel, directing the battle--

There is the man of my soul's hate--

Piercing our Romans.

Worthy sir, thou bleeds.

Thy exercise hath been too violent

For a second course of fight.

Sir, praise me not.

My work hath yet not warmed me.

The blood I drop is more medicinal

Than dangerous to me. To Aufidius thus

I will appear and fight.

He turns to some soldiers, imploring them to join him. His

bloody visage and intensity are strangely inspiring, his

If any such be here-

As it were sin to doubt - that love this

Wherein you see me smeared; if any fear

Lesser his person than an ill report;

If any think brave death outweighs bad

life,

And that his country's dearer than

Let him alone, or so many so minded,

Wave thus, to express his disposition,

AND FOLLOW MARTIUS!

The soldiers are pumped up -- like Marines straining for

22.

0, ME ALONE! MAKE YOU A SWORD OF ME!

Zigzagging across the plaza toward the hotel--

Titus and the others provide covering fire--

EXT. CORIOLES-PLAZA - DAY

Martius zigzags with his men across the dangerously exposed

They return fire at the hotel as best they can, but the

barrage from the Volscians is murderous--

Roman soldiers contort and fall, blood spraying--

Bullets snap and ricochet everywhere around them--

But still they keep up a steady pace, reloading and firing as

Then Martius is hit--

But still he keeps on--

The front of the hotel is closer now--

Martius and his soldiers race to the hotel and crash into the

INT. CORIOLES-HOTEL-LOBBY - DAY

Martius and his soldiers battle the Volscian defenders in the

It is the weird and incongruous nature of modern urban

warfare: soldiers fighting to the death among hotel couches

and tatty corporate artwork--

It is brutal--

Martius and his soldiers cut a bloody swath across the hotel

Another HUGE EXPLOSION rocks the hotel -- like a seismic

blast -- an ugly 1970's chandelier falls--

23.

Martius and his men move into a stairwell--

INT. CORIOLES-HOTEL-STAIRWELL - DAY

Martius and his men race up the stairway-

Volscians are firing down at them--

Bullets ricochet crazily in the confined stairway, refracting

from concrete walls and twisting metal railing, sending up

sparks and clouds of dust--

Then Martius slows to a stop.

Looks up.

Aufidius is on the stairway above. Glaring down at him.

A long beat as they lock eyes. Both panting for breath in the

heat of the combat.

I'll fight with none but thee, for I do

hate thee.

We hate alike.

Then Martius does something astounding.

He holds out his arms to his sides and drops his weapons.

They clatter down.

Aufidius does the same.

The Roman and Volscian soldiers watch.

None daring to interfere.

Martius and Aufidius continue to glare at each other --

dropping weapons -- disarming -- Martius climbing up the

stairs, Aufidius coming down -- moving closer and closer--

At an instant-

They slam together-

Fighting without weapons--

Grappling brutally. Tearing at each other. Twining together.

Fingers grasping. Teeth snapping. Hands pulling.

It is a bloody, terrible, graceless struggle.

24.

They crash and slam awkwardly in the claustrophobic

stairwell. Smashing into the walls. Falling from level to

Another EXPLOSION rocks the hotel--

Part of the roof COLLAPSES--

Concrete SLAMS down--

A cloud of smoke, dust and debris obscures everything-

Martius is tossed violently to the ground in the action--

Aufidius is pulled away by several of his men. They drag him

to safety. Roman soldiers fire after them. The sound is

deafening in the confined garage.

But Aufidius and his comrades disappear into a cloud of dust.

Gone.

Martius glares after him. Wipes blood from his eyes.

INT. CORIOLES-HOTEL-LOBBY - NIGHT

The hotel lobby has been turned into a hastily assembled

emergency triage station.

The moaning and screaming of the injured are constant. Roman

medics attend to the wounded: administering IVs; arranging

evacuations; performing battlefield surgery.

Martius sits, dried blood covering his face, looking over his

injured and dying soldiers as a medic stitches up a wound in

his arm. Titus is with him.

General Cominius enters with several attending officers,

going to congratulate Martius.

If I should tell thee over this thy day's

work,

Thou would not believe thy deeds.

Martius is barely listening. His attention is on a YOUNG

SOLDIER across the room. The Young Soldier is injured, pale

and thirsty. Dying.

But I'll report it

Where Senators shall mingle tears with

25.

Where great patricians shall attend and

shrug,

In the end admire and say: "We thank the

Our Rome hath such a soldier."

Pray now, no more. My mother,

When she does praise me, grieves me.

I have done as you have done - that's

what I can;

Induced as you have been - that's for my

country.

Martius continues to look at the poor dying soldier.

Rome must know

The value of her own. It were a

Worse than a theft,

To hide your doings.

I have some wounds upon me, and they

To hear themselves remembered.

The surgeon finishes stitching Martius' arm. Starts to clean

another wound.

Should they not,

Well might they fester against

Too modest are you.

Impatient, Martius rises, painfully and slowly. He takes his

canteen and crosses to the Young Soldier. Gives his canteen

to the boy. The Young Soldier drinks. His deep, sad eyes gaze

up at Martius.

Martius watches as...

The Young Soldier dies. The light goes from his eyes. His

head hangs awkwardly. His boyish face is leaden.

Martius suddenly finds himself exhausted. Morally and

physically spent.

26.

I will go wash;

And when my face is fair, you shall

Whether I blush or no Howbeit,

thank you.

Martius stares at the dead soldier.

EXT. CORIOLES-STREET - NIGHT

Aufidius and some of his Volscian soldiers, bloody and

filthy, are on foot.

They are moving through the outskirts of Corioles, leaving

the city. Exhausted after the long and failed battle.

Fires burn from blasted shops and homes. The Romans have

clearly laid waste to this part of the city.

There is a minivan stopped ahead of them. Bullets holes

everywhere. Bodies inside.

They walk to it. Aufidius looks in. A dead family. Father,

mother, kids in the back. Bloody toys on the floor of the

minivan.

Roman atrocities.

Aufidius gazes at the bodies. His face hardens.

He whispers to himself:

Five times, Martius,

I have fought with thee; so often hast

thou beat me,

And would do so, I think, should we

As often as we eat.

He becomes aware some of his men are looking at him,

disturbed at his fervor.

I thought to crush him in an equal force,

True sword to sword, I'll stab him some

way,

Or wrath -- or craft -- may get him.

27.

He's the devil.

Bolder, though not so subtle.

A beat. Aufidius continues with prayer-like intensity:

My valor, poisoned with him,

Shall fly out of itself ...

Nor sleep, nor sanctuary, being naked,

Sick, the prayers of priests,

Nor times of sacrifice,

Shall lift up their rotten privilege

And custom,

Against my hate to Martius.

In the shattered glass of the minivan window, Aufidius

suddenly sees himself.

He studies his own face, nurturing his dark thoughts.

Where I find him, were it

At home, upon my brother's guard, even

there,

Will I wash my fierce hand in his heart.

INT. POLITICO BAR - DAY

Back in Rome, we are at a comfortable restaurant/bar near the

Senate where politicians gather to eat, drink, gossip and

conspire. The business of state is conducted over steak and

martinis.

Comfortable red leather booths. Wooden panelling.

Two Tribunes -- Senators chosen to speak for the people --

are having lunch.

BRUTUS is a large man in a rumpled grey suit; a sweating bear

with a taste for bare-knuckle politics. SICINIUS is smaller

and vulpine; crafty and cold.

Both are ambitious politicos used to manipulating the people

and the press for their personal ends. With them sits

Cassius, the political agitator we met before.

The TV over the bar shows images of Martius' victory:

parading Roman troops; Volscian prisoners; flags; adoring

crowds; triumphant slogans; "Mission Accomplished."

28.

Was ever man so proud as is this Martius?

He has no equal.

When we were chosen Tribunes for the

Marked you his lip and eyes?

Nay, but his taunts.

They see Senator Menenius approaching. Sicinius nods to

Cassius, who quickly goes.

Menenius stops by on his way out. He is jolly, knowing the

victory will assure his protege's political future:

The augurer tells me we shall have news

tonight.

Good or bad?

Not according to the prayer of the

people, for they love not Martius.

Nature teaches beasts to know their

friends.

You blame Martius for being proud?

We do it not alone, sir.

Subtly, the polite chit-chat is turning more serious and

pointed; Menenius growing sharper. The gloves are coming off.

I know you can do very little alone

You talk of pride: 0 that you could turn

good selves! 0 that you could!

29.

What then, sir?

Why, then you should discover a brace of

unmeriting, proud, violent, testy

magistrates, alias fools, as any in Rome.

The saturnine Sicinius' response seems almost a threat:

Menenius, you are known well enough too.

I am known to be a humorous patrician,

and one that loves a cup of hot wine with

not a drop of allaying water in it; one

that converses more with the buttock of

the night than with the forehead of the

morning. What I think I utter, and spend

my malice in my breath.

Come, sir, come, we know you well enough.

You know neither me, yourselves nor

anything You are ambitious.

A tense beat. They are formidable adversaries.

Good-e'en to your worships. More of your

conversation would infect my brain, being

the herdsmen of the beastly plebeians

I will be bold to take my leave of you.

He goes. The Tribunes watch him cut through the lunch crowd

and exit.

EXT. SENATE - DAY

The Roman Senate is constructed with classical symmetry and

clean, square lines. Probably the most striking and beautiful

building in Rome.

INT. SENATE-CORRIDOR - DAY

Volumnia, Virgilia and Menenius are hurrying down a corridor,

excited. All are well-dressed, for an important public event.

30.

Honorable Menenius, my boy Martius

approaches! For the love of Juno, let's

go.

Is he not wounded? He was wont to come

home wounded.

0, no, no, no...

0, he is wounded! I thank the gods for

it.

So do I too -- if it be not too much.

Brings a victory in his pocket, the

wounds become him. Has he disciplined

Aufidius soundly?

Titus Lartius says they fought together,

but Aufidius got off.

In truth, there's wondrous things spoke

of him. Gods grant them true.

(an exhalation of scorn)

True?!

I'll be sworn they are true. Where is he

wounded?

Volumnia and Menenius now gleefully add up her son's wounds

like accountants -- or campaign managers.

In the shoulder and in the left arm.

There will be large scars to show the

people, when he shall stand for his place

He received in the repulse of Tarquin

seven hurts in the body.

One in the neck, and two in the thigh -

there's nine that I know.

He had, before this last expedition,

twenty-five wounds upon him.

Now it's twenty-seven. Every gash was an

enemy's grave.

We focus on Volumnia's face as she thinks about her son.

He carries noise, and behind him he

leaves tears.

Death, that dark spirit, in his nervy arm

Which, being advanced, declines, and then

men die.

They hurry to the stop of a grand staircase, where there are

people waiting...

INT. SENATE-STAIRS - DAY

They join Cominius and other dignitaries at the top of a

majestic stairway.

An honor guard of Roman soldiers in dress uniforms are

waiting. Roman flags flutter. All very ceremonial.

Martius enters below. The honor guard snaps to attention.

Martius -- hereafter called Coriolanus -- slowly begins to

cross to the steps. We see that walking is very difficult

for him. His wounds are severe and every movement is agony.

He has paid a steep price for his victory.

Photographers flash photos and a TV crew film the ceremony.

Coriolanus finally reaches the steps leading up. He takes a

breath and slowly begins to climb the stairs, each step a

challenge.

Volumnia looks down on him. Unmoved by his pain.

Virgilia is distraught.

As Coriolanus slowly hauls himself up the last few steps,

General Cominius speaks into a cluster of microphones and

addresses the press:

32.

Be it known,

As to us, to all the world, that Caius

Wears this war's garland And from

this time,

For what he did before Corioles, call

him,

With all the applause and clamor of the

host,

"Caius Martius Coriolanus!"

Bear the addition nobly ever!

The soldiers salute in a grim sort of chant:

Caius Martius Coriolanus!

Coriolanus has reached the podium. An awkward beat. Cominius

gestures for him to speak into the microphones.

He tersely does so:

No more of this; it does offend my heart.

Pray now, no more.

An awkward silence. Cominius elegantly tries to covers the

Look, sir, your mother.

0,

You have, I know, petitioned all the gods

For my prosperity.

He kneels to her -- slowly, with great difficulty -- she lets

him.

Nay, my good soldier, up.

(he slowly rises)

My gentle Martius, worthy Caius, and

By deed-achieving honor newly named -

What is it? - Coriolanus must I call

thee?

She laughs coquettishly, thoroughly upstaging her son.

Then, almost an afterthought:

33.

But, 0, thy wife...

Coriolanus greets Virgilia with the clumsy and stiff

formality that marks their marriage.

My gracious silence, hail.

An awkwardly tender kiss. He notes her tears. Reacts coldly.

Would thou have laughed had I come

coffined home,

That weeps to see me triumph? Ay, my

dear,

Such eyes the widows in Corioles wear,

And mothers that lack sons.

Now, the gods crown thee!

(greets him warmly)

And live you yet?

I know not where to turn. 0, welcome

home!

And welcome, general. And you're welcome

all!

A hundred thousand welcomes!

Coriolanus is surrounded by well-wishers and political

admirers. Volumnia and Menenius usher him along.

We see the image from TV: The noble warrior returned home.

Devoted family. Flags waving. The future golden.

INT. VILLA-BATHROOM - EVENING

And then the hard reality.

Coriolanus' body is a battleground of scars. Some are livid

and red, fresh and still oozing blood. Others are pale and

blue, discolored and dead.

His body is something monstrous. Stitched up. Patched

together. Slashed around. Frankenstein's monster.

34.

He is leaning against a sink, stripped naked. His muscular if

shattered body exposed.

Volumnia sits and dresses her son's wounds. As she always has

done. As she always will.

It is a disturbing, intimate image.

The good Senators must be visited;

From whom I have received not only

greetings,

But with them change of honors.

He shifts painfully as she continues to treat one of his

wounds.

I have lived

To see inherited my very wishes

And the buildings of my fancy. Only

There's one thing wanting, which I doubt

Our Rome will cast upon thee.

He catches her eye in the mirror, very firm:

Know, good mother,

I had rather be their servant in my way,

Than sway with them in theirs.

They stop when--

Virgilia enters.

She stops in the doorway. It is embarrassing for her, as if

she has interrupted two lovers. A long moment.

She looks to her husband.

To Volumnia.

They stare back.

There is no way she can compete with their intimacy.

Surrendering, she silently goes.

INT. VILLA -- HALLWAY - EVENING

Virgilia wanders a long hallway, past a fine collection of

antique Roman weaponry. She seems lost.

35.

She stops and opens a door, glances into her son's bedroom:

Young Martius is asleep.

Her eyes move across his room. The military toys. The little

cadet uniform carefully hung. The polished boots waiting.

All stern and joyless. Not like a child's room at all.

Virgilia closes the door and continues down the long hallway,

disappearing into darkness.

INT. SENATE-OFFICE - DAY

Darkened office. Brutus and Sicinius sit, heads together,

focused.

He cannot temperately transport his

honors, but will

Lose those he hath won.

I heard him swear,

Were he to stand for Consul, never would

Appear in the marketplace nor

Showing, as the manner is, his wounds

To the people, beg "their stinking

breaths."

It was his word.

INT. SENATE-CORRIDOR - DAY

Brutus and Sicinius continue as they hurry to the Senate

So it must fall out with him,

Or our authorities at an end.

We must suggest to the people in what

He still hath held them.

Peace...

36.

They enter the Senate Chamber...

INT. SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

Brutus and Sicinius make their way to their seats as we hear:

MENENIUS (V.0.)

It remains,

As the main point of this our after-

meeting,

To gratify his noble service that

Hath thus stood for his country...

The interior of the grand Senate is an airy, sweeping chamber

that suggests the Israeli Knesset or U.N. General Assembly.

Again, classical symmetry is the rule with tiers of seats

facing a central dais. An imposing piece of outdated modern

art suggesting the might of Rome looms over the chamber like

a bird of prey.

Network TV cameras purr quietly from a corner.

Menenius, Cominius, Coriolanus and several other politicos

are seating at a central table on the dais, facing the rows

of SENATORS.

Menenius is standing at a podium, speaking into a microphone:

Therefore, please you,

Most reverend and grave elders, to desire

The present Consul, and last general

In our well-found successes, to report

A little of that worthy work performed

By Caius Martius Coriolanus.

Speak, good Cominius.

General Cominius rises and moves to the podium.

But then Coriolanus abruptly stands--

Nay, keep your place.

Sit, Coriolanus. Never shame to hear

What you have nobly done.

37.

Your honors' pardon.

I had rather have my wounds to heal again

Than hear say how I got them.

Pray now, sit down.

I had rather have one scratch my head in

When the alarum were struck than idly sit

To hear my nothings monstered.

Coriolanus moves across the dais and exits into a hallway.

The door shuts after him.

Menenius sighs. Nods to Cominius.

Cominius moves to the podium and begins to read his speech

from a Teleprompter. This all has the rehearsed quality of a

campaign nomination speech.

The deeds of Coriolanus

Should not be uttered feebly. It is held

That valor is the chiefest virtue, and

Most dignifies the haver. Alone he

The mortal gate of the city,

And struck Corioles like a planet,

From face to foot

He was a thing of blood...

Brutus and Sicinius exchange a glance, bored by the political

boilerplate.

INT. SENATE-SERVICE CORRIDOR - DAY

Meanwhile, Coriolanus stands in the service corridor beyond

the chamber. Green industrial walls. Ugly fluorescent lights

above.

He leans against a wall, alone with his thoughts.

Cominius' voice can be heard droning inside.

Then Coriolanus glances up. A CUSTODIAN is pushing a garbage

can down the long corridor. He stops when he sees Coriolanus.

Coriolanus' cool, uncompromising stare makes the Custodian

uneasy. He turns around and goes back.

38.

Coriolanus waits. His face strangely vacant.

He flexes his wounded arm. It hurts.

He hears Cominius finish. A good round of applause. He hears

his name being cheered: "Coriolanus!"

Coriolanus closes his eyes, steels himself, and then re-

enters the chamber...

INT. SENATE CHAMBER - DAY

Menenius greets him and escorts him to the podium for his

"acceptance speech."

The Senate, Coriolanus, are well pleased

To make thee Consul!

Menenius steps back.

A beat.

Coriolanus stares at the Senators. At the TV cameras.

He leans awkwardly into the podium microphone:

I do owe them still

My life and services.

A beat.

For an acceptance speech, rather terse. Menenius jumps in to

salvage the moment:

It then remains

That you do speak to the people.

I do beseech you,

Let me overleap that custom, for I cannot

For my wounds' sake to give their

suffrage.

Please you that I may pass this doing.

From the Senate floor, Sicinius jumps on this:

Sir, the people

Must have their voices!

39.

The Senators, led by Brutus, clamor their agreement.

Tradition must be obeyed.

(calming, to Coriolanus)

Pray you, go fit you to the custom.

It is a part

That I shall blush in acting, and might

Be taken from the people.

Menenius quickly turns off Coriolanus' microphone.

Mark you that?

To brag unto them "Thus I did, and thus!"

Show them the unaching scars which I

should hide,

As if I had received them for the hire

Of their breath only!

Menenius sees Coriolanus is getting angry, this could be

disastrous.

He elegantly gestures for Cominius to escort Coriolanus out

immediately -- as he addresses the Senators and TV cameras:

To our noble Consul

Wish we all joy and honor!

He applauds. The applause is taken up by the Senators. Some

cheering as well for the hero of Rome The two Tribunes,

however, are already whispering maliciously to other

Senators.

Menenius seems pleased with the general response. So far, so

good.

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

Volumnia is pleased as well.

She sits, watching the events unfold on TV.

The sound of the cheering fades as we go to...

40.

INT. MENENIUS' LIMO - DAY

The limousine winds through the pedestrian traffic toward the

Roman marketplace.

Coriolanus sits with Menenius. Coriolanus is both angry and

embarrassed. He is wearing a sharp business suit.

Have you not known

The worthiest men have done it?

Custom calls me to it.

What custom wills, in all things should

we do...

What must I say?

"Look, sir, my wounds.

I got them in my country's service."

O me, the gods!

You must not speak like that. You must

To think upon you--

"Think upon me"? Hang 'em!

I would they would forget me.

You'll mar all!

The limo stops. They are at the marketplace. The moment has

come.

Menenius takes a breath. Urges calm:

Pray you, speak to them, I pray you,

In wholesome manner.

Bid them wash their faces

And keep their teeth clean.

He leaves the car.

41.

EXT. MARKETPLACE - DAY

The commercial heart of Rome. A large town square, since

antiquity used as a marketplace.

But now it is filled with tatty stalls selling cheap purses

and knock-off watches. Paltry fruit stands alongside shabby

souvenir stalls.

Advertising billboards surround and pollute the square --

SONY. COKE. NIKE. MCDONALDS -- obscuring any classical

architecture that might have survived.

Tamora and Cassius, the political activists, are in the

crowd. They watch closely.

Coriolanus slowly walks to the center of the marketplace. He

stands, feeling ridiculous and not at all humble.

He looks around.

Waiting for something to happen.

The CUSTOMERS and SHOPKEEPERS just look back at him. Some are

curious. Some are amused. Some hostile and most indifferent.

But no one approaches.

Then Coriolanus understands. He must g to them: beg for

votes.

He prepares himself and then slowly moves through the various

stalls, weaving in and out. Trying to maintain his dignity.

He sees the Citizens from before and goes to them. We glimpse

Brutus and Sicinius amongst the crowd.

You know the cause, sir, of my standing

here.

We do, sir. Tell us what hath brought you

to it.

Mine own desert.

Your own desert?

Ay, but not mine own desire.

42.

How not your own desire?

No, it was never my desire yet to trouble

the poor with begging.

You must think, if we give you anything,

we hope to gain by you.

Well then, I pray, your price of the

Consulship?

The price is to ask it kindly.

Kindly, sir, I pray, let me have it. I

have wounds to show you, which shall be

yours in private Your good voice,

sir. What say you?

You shall have it, worthy sir.

A match, sir. There's in all two worthy

voices begged. I have your alms. Adieu.

Business done, so he thinks, Coriolanus crisply moves on.

Cassius is not convinced.

But this is something odd.

Coriolanus continues on. He sees a large JAMAICAN WOMAN with

her CHILDREN, carrying plastic grocery bags, talking to a

SHOPKEEPER. He goes to them:

Pray you now, if it may stand with the

tune of your voices that I may be Consul.

You have deserved nobly of your country,

and you have not deserved nobly.

Your enigma?

43.

You have been a scourge to her enemies;

you have been a rod to her friends

You have not indeed loved the common

people.

You should account me the more virtuous

that I have not been common in my love

Therefore, beseech you, I may be

Consul.

We hope to find you our friend, and

therefore give you our voices heartily.

You have received many wounds for your

country.

I will not seal your knowledge with

showing them. I will make much of your

voices, and so trouble you no farther.

The gods give you joy, sir, heartily!

Coriolanus is warming to the task, it's easier than he

thought. He moves to a central, open area and declares

Your voices! For your voices I have

Watched for your voices; for your voices

Of wounds two dozen odd; battles thrice

I have seen and heard of!

A crowd is gathering. We note Brutus and Sicinius in the

crowd. Menenius, too, has moved in.

For your voices

Have done many things, some less, some

more.

Your voices! Indeed, I would be Consul.

He has done nobly, and cannot go without

any honest man's voice!

44.

RACE TRACK TOUT

Therefore let him be Consul!

The gods give him joy, and make him good

friend to the people!

The Citizens applaud and give their support:

Amen, amen. God save thee, noble Consul!

Worthy voices!

Menenius, with Brutus and Sicinius, goes to him:

You have stood your limitation, and the

Endue you with the people's voice.

Is this done?

The custom of request you have

discharged.

The people do admit you, and are summoned

To meet anon upon your approbation.

Where? At the Senate?

There, Coriolanus.

I'll keep you company.

Will you along?

We stay here for the people.

Coriolanus and Menenius go, relieved the trial is over.

Brutus and Sicinius, however, have work to do. This has not

gone as they wanted. They are urgent:

How now, my masters! Have you chose this

man?

45.

He has our voices, sir.

We pray the gods he may deserve your

loves.

Amen, sir. To my poor unworthy notice,

He mocked us when he begged our voices.

He flouted us downright.

No, it is his kind of speech; he did not

mock us.

He should have showed us

His marks of merit, wounds received for's

country.

Why, so he did, I am sure.

No, no! No one saw them!

(inciting the crowd)

Was not this mockery?

Brutus presses hard:

When he had no power,

But was a petty servant to the state,

He was your enemy, ever spake against

Your liberties.

Did you perceive

He did solicit you in free contempt

When he did need your loves, and do you

That his contempt shall not be bruising

When he hath power to crush?

46.

Cassius and Tamora carefully lead the crowd in expressing

growing alarm and resistance to Coriolanus:

He's not confirmed; we may deny him yet!

And will deny him!

I'll have five hundred voices of that

sound.

I twice five hundred and their friends!

The crowd roars approval. A frightening, animal sound.

Let them assemble,

And on a safer judgment all revoke

Your ignorant election.

Enforce his pride,

And his old hate unto you!

And presently, when you have drawn your

number,

Repair to the Capitol.

We will so!

We will so! All

Repent in their election!

Cassius and Tamora lead the crowd. It is a terrifying

spectacle of sudden mob rage, only a razor-thin edge to

violence.

Brutus and Sicinius watch, satisfied, like Robespierre and

Saint Just looking over the bloody guillotine.

INT. SENATE-CORRIDOR - DAY

Coriolanus, dressed again in his familiar uniform, emerges

from an antechamber with his comrade Titus.

Menenius, General Cominius and several pro-Coriolanus

Senators follow them. They stride down the corridor.

47.

army?

He has, my lord.

Saw you Aufidius?

He is retired to Antium.

Spoke he of me?

He did, my lord.

How? What?

How often he had met you, sword to sword;

That of all things upon the earth he

Your person most.

At Antium lives he?

At Antium.

I wish I had a cause to seek him there,

To oppose his hatred fully.

They hear the growing rumble of a crowd. Curious.

They continue on and turn a corner to...

INT. SENATE-CENTRAL LOBBY - DAY

The central lobby of the Senate is an open, airy space.

Through the glass doors at the front of the lobby an unruly

crowd can be seen gathering. Police. Barricades.

Sicinius and Brutus are waiting to intercept them.

48.

Behold, these are the Tribunes of the

people,

The tongues of the common mouth.

Pass no further.

Ha! What is that?

It will be dangerous to go on. No

further.

What makes this change?

The matter?

Hath he not passed the nobles and the

commons?

Cominius, no.

Coriolanus steps closer to Brutus. The mob sees him through

the glass doors. The tension immediately increases.

Have I had children's voices?

Tribunes, give way.

The people are incensed against him.

(glancing to the growing

Are these your herd?

Be calm, be calm.

The people cry you mocked them, and of

late called them

Time-pleasers, flatterers, foes to

nobleness.

49.

But this was known before.

You show too much of that

For which the people stir. If you will

To where you are bound, you must inquire

your way.

The crowd outside is growing restless, sensing and responding

to the building tension. The police try to hold them back,

keeping them away from the doors. The crowd presses in.

We see Cassius and Tamora at the forefront, urging the crowd

on.

Let's be calm--

The people are abused, set on--

Not now, not now--

Not in this heat, sir--

Coriolanus strides angrily toward the doors and exits--

The others follow--

EXT. SENATE-COURTYARD - DAY

Coriolanus launches himself into the crowd with blistering

My nobler friends, I crave their pardons.

For the mutable, rank-scented crowd,

Let them regard me as I do not flatter,

And therein behold themselves. I say

again,

In soothing them, we nourish against our

The cockle of rebellion, insolence,

sedition,

Which we ourselves have ploughed for,

sowed, and scattered,

By mingling them with us!

50.

Well, no more!

No more words, we beseech you--

The mob has surrounded them all by now.

The police are getting nervous, eyes darting uneasily from

the unruly crowd to the volatile men.

This all has the potential of sparking to violence.

We note a TV news crew moving into position, covering the

action. Others film with cell phone cameras. We intercut some

of this footage.

(to Coriolanus, provoking)

You speak of the people

As if you were a god to punish, not

A man of their infirmity.

It were well we let the people know it.

Were I as patient as the midnight sleep,

By Jove, it would be my mind!

It is a mind

That shall remain a poison where it is,

Not poison any further.

"Shall remain"!

Hear you this Triton of the minnows? Mark

His absolute "shall"?

Why, should the people give

One that speaks thus their voice?

I'll give my reasons,

More worthier than their voices!

Menenius tries to pull him away, Coriolanus shakes free and

continues the attack:

By Jove himself,

It makes the consuls base; and my soul

To know, when two authorities are up,

Neither supreme, how soon confusion,

May enter 'twixt the gap of both and take

The one by the other.

The crowd roars angrily -- Coriolanus spins on them:

Thus we debase the nature of our seats,

and make the rabble

Call our cares fears; which will in time

Break ope the locks of the Senate, and

The crows to peck the eagles!

Come, enough!

Enough, with over-measure.

(calls to the mob)

He has spoken like a traitor, and shall

As traitors do!

At the word "traitor" Coriolanus loses all reason, he is

Thou wretch, despite overwhelm thee!

Manifest treason!

This is a Consul? No!

Hence, old goat!

Coriolanus grabs Sicinius roughly and flings him aside--

At this -- the crowd ROARS in outrage -- the TV crews hustle

Menenius pulls Coriolanus off:

52.

On both sides more respect!

(calling to the crowd)

Here's he that would take from you all

your power!

The crowd reacts angrily -- surging forward against the

restraint of the police.

We see grim RIOT POLICE marching into position. The crowd is

not intimidated, they are spoiling for a fight.

The Tribunes provoke the crowd even more, escalating and

building the fever:

You are at point to lose your liberties!

Martius would have all from you, Martius,

Whom late you have named for Consul.

What is the city but the people?!

True! The people are the city!

We do here pronounce, upon the part of

the people,

Martius is worthy of present DEATH!

A huge roar from the mob. Panic and violence building. Fast

Guards, seize him!

No, I'll die here!

Lay hands upon him!

(to the crowd)

HELP, YE CITIZENS!

At his cue--

The civil violence threatened from the opening moments of

this story finally EXPLODES--

53.

With Cassius and Tamora in the forefront, the crowd attacks

Riot Police march in, slamming ahead with riot shields and

The mob fights back with anything at hand -- some are armed

with clubs and knives, others snatch up garbage cans and

newspaper vending machines, throwing them, smashing windows,

battling the police, kicking and punching and screaming--

It is civil disobedience. But it is also drunken, thug

violence. Terrifying in its intensity--

Menenius gets Titus and Cominius to hustle Coriolanus away--

Go, get you to your house! Be gone, away!

All will be naught else--

Come, sir, along with us--

They hurry Coriolanus away--

The Riot Police, outnumbered, start firing TEAR GAS into the

TV news crew filming--

Chaotic, flurried violence--

Shaky TV images, cell phone video--

Choking, acrid gas--

It is a terrifying descent into public madness as all order

breaks down.

Rome is bloody.

INT. SENATE-OFFICE - DUSK

Menenius and the Tribunes are gathered in a darkened office

for some high-stakes politicking.

Tamora, her face bloody from the riot, is with them. So too

some supporters on either side.

54.

As I do know the Consul's worthiness,

So can I name his faults--

Consul! What Consul?

The Consul Coriolanus.

He Consul?!

It is decreed

He dies tonight.

He's a disease that must be cut away.

0, he's a limb that has but a disease:

Mortal, to cut it off; to cure it, easy.

What has he done to Rome that's worth his

death? Eh?

Killing our enemies?!

He sees that his words are having some effect, he presses the

The blood he hath lost --

He dropped it for his country.

Some in the room murmur agreement.

We'll hear no more--

Consider this: he has been bred in the

Since he could draw a sword, and is ill

In graceful language Give me leave,

I'll go to him, and undertake to bring

Where he shall answer by a lawful form,

In peace, to his utmost peril.

Noble tribunes,

It is the humane way.

55.

The other course

Will prove too bloody, and the end of it

Unknown to the beginning.

Sicinius is about to retort when Brutus stops him.

Brutus assents, assuming the voice of reason:

Be you then as the people's officer.

Menenius and Coriolanus' supporters are relieved.

If you bring not Martius, we'll proceed

In our first way.

I'll bring him to you.

He goes quickly.

Brutus turns to Sicinius and Tamora and begins to quietly

explain his plan.

INT. MARTIUS VILLA-CORRIDOR - DAY

Coriolanus strides angrily down a long corridor, in and out

of shafts of light, seething to Titus:

Let them pull all about mine ears,

Death on the wheel or at wild horses'

heels,

Yet will I still be thus to them--!

I muse my mother

Does not approve me further!

He slams through a door to the living room...

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

And stomps to confront his mother, who is currently

conspiring with Menenius and a few Senators.

56.

(to Volumnia, angrily)

I talk of you!

Why did you wish me milder? Would you

False to my nature? Rather say I play

The man I am!

She is equally tough with him, not giving an inch, snapping

0, sir, sir, sir,

I would have had you put your power well

on,

Before you had worn it out.

Let go!

You might have been enough the man you

are,

With striving less to be so!

Let them hang!

Av, and burn too!

Her outraged fury matches his. Overpowers his.

Come, come, you have been too rough,

something too rough.

You must return and mend it.

Coriolanus turns away.

Pray, be counseled.

I have a heart as little apt as yours,

But yet a brain that leads my use of

To better vantage.

Well said, noble woman!

What must I do?

57.

Return to the Tribunes.

Well, what then? What then?

Repent what you have spoke.

For them? I cannot do it to the gods.

Must I then do it to them?

You are too absolute,

Though therein you can never be too

noble.

(upset, walking away)

Why force you this?

She pursues him:

Because that now it lies you on to speak

To the people, not by your own

instruction,

Nor by the matter which your heart

prompts you,

But with such words that are but

Your tongue, though but bastards and

Of no allowance to your bosom's truth...

She moves closer to him. Her voice lower. A sort of

seduction.

I would dissemble with my nature where

My fortunes and my friends at stake

I should do so in honor...

She is very close now. Whispering. She touches him gently,

like a lover.

I am in this your wife, your son,

These senators, the nobles

And you.

A long beat. All are silent, watching her spin her web.

58.

I prithee now, my son,

Go and say to them

Thou art their soldier, and being bred in

Has not the soft way

In asking their good loves; but thou wilt

Thyself, forsooth, hereafter theirs.

This but done, even as she speaks,

Why their hearts were yours.

Prithee now,

Go, and be ruled...

(laughing to him)

Although I know thou hadst rather

Follow thine enemy in a fiery gulf

Than flatter him in a bower.

Coriolanus smiles. A genuinely sweet moment between them.

Cominius enters with several other political supporters.

Sir, it is fit

You make strong party, or defend yourself

By calmness or by absence. All's in

anger.

Only fair speech.

I think it will serve, if he

Can thereto frame his spirit.

He must -- and will.

Prithee now, say you will, and go about

it.

With base tongue give my noble heart

A lie that it must bear? . Well, I will

do it.

But he is still agitated. Volumnia shares a concerned glance

with Menenius.

59.

Away, my disposition, and possess me

Some harlot's spirit. A beggar's tongue

Make motion through my lips, and my armed

knees,

Who bowed but in my stirrup, bend like

That hath charity received!

The thought of begging is too much, he rejects it, breaking

I will not do it!

Lest I cease to honor mine own truth

And by my body's action teach my mind

A most inherent baseness.

Volumnia snarls at him, exasperated, building to a thunder

that dwarfs his:

At thy choice, then!

To beg of thee, it is my more dishonor

Than thou of them. Come all to ruin! Let

Thy mother rather feel thy pride than

Thy dangerous stoutness, for I mock at

With as biq heart as thou! Do as you

like!

The words echo.

It is as if he has been slapped. His resolve vanishes.

Pray, be content...

Mother, I am going, chide me no more.

He awaits her approval.

She will not yet grant it.

Look, I am going...

Commend me to my wife. I'll return

Consul,

Or never trust to what my tongue can do

In the way of flattery further.

She graciously bows to him.

60.

Do your will.

Then she kisses him.

And she goes.

Like a queen. Volumnia triumphant. Always.

Then a shocking hard cut to:

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY

A crowded TV studio. The audience stands are filling up.

Television cameras. Lights. Heavy security.

On the stage: the set for a chat show. Translight of a city

skyline behind the set. Two standing microphones.

At the side of the set, Sicinius and Brutus are conspiring

with the two citizen activists, Cassius and Tamora:

In this point charge him home: that he

Tyrannical power. If he evade us there,

Enforce him with his envy to the people.

Have you a catalogue

Of all the voices that we have procured

Set down by the poll?

I have; it's ready.

When the people hear me say "It shall be

In the right and strength of the

Commons," be it either

For death, for fine, or banishment, then

let them,

If I say "Fine," cry "Fine!" - if

"Death," cry "Death!"

We shall inform them.

Cassius and Tamora hurry off to instruct and manipulate the

crowd as best they can. They mix with the audience in the

stands.

A gloomy but resolved Coriolanus walks with Cominius and

Menenius between the tiers of audience, on the way to the

set.

To answer mildly, for they are prepared

With accusations, as I hear, more strong

Than are upon you yet.

The word is "mildly." Pray you, let us

go.

Let them accuse me by invention, I

Will answer in mine honor.

Ay, but mildly.

Well, mildly be it then. Mildly!

Coriolanus steels himself as they emerge from between the

stands and head toward the set.

TV news crews are waiting. Blinding lights snap on.

The crowd, on seeing Coriolanus, lets out a ROAR. Deafening

and savage.

We see Cassius and Tamora moving through the crowd,

instigating, convincing, imploring.

Coriolanus ignores it all. Imperious to the end.

Brutus and Sicinius wait on the set.

(whispers to Sicinius)

Put him to choler straight.

Coriolanus and his supporters move to the stage. Coriolanus

glares at the Tribunes. The TV crews take up position.

Menenius gestures for Coriolanus to step to the microphone,

whispering to him:

62.

Calmly, I do beseech you.

Coriolanus steps to the microphone.

Brutus gestures for the crowd to quiet down.

We see bits of this scene through the monitors on the TV

cameras.

When the crowd is silent, Coriolanus begins to make a

The honored gods--

But his voice echoes badly with reverb. Menenius adjusts the

microphone. Coriolanus begins again, quickly and by rote:

The honored gods

Keep Rome in safety, and the chairs of

Supplied with worthy men. Plant love

among us.

Throng our large temples with the shows

of peace,

And not our streets with war.

Amen, amen.

A noble wish.

His boilerplate speech over, Coriolanus turns to Sicinius who

is at the other standing microphone:

Shall I be charged no further than this

present?

Must all determine here?

I do demand,

If you submit you to the people's voices.

I am content.

63.

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

Volumnia watches the proceedings closely on TV. She is

pleased with her son's performance so far.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY

Menenius, ever the People's Friend, steps to the microphone:

Lo, citizens, he says he is content.

The warlike service he has done,

Upon the wounds his body bears, which

Like graves in the holy churchyard.

(uncomfortable with this)

Scratches with briers,

Scars to move laughter only.

INT. APARTMENT - DAY

Aufidius sits with several of his officers, leaning forward,

watching the drama unfold on TV.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY

Consider further,

That when he speaks not like a citizen,

You find him like a soldier. Do not take

His rougher accents for malicious sounds,

But, as I say, such as become a soldier.

Coriolanus cuts in, his impatience getting the better of him:

What is the matter

That being passed for Consul with full

voice,

I am so dishonored that the very hour

You take it off again?

We charge you that you have contrived to

From Rome all seasoned office, and to

Yourself into a power tyrannical

64.

(the coup de grace)

For which you are a traitor to the

people.

Coriolanus responds, a cobra striking:

How? Traitor?!

Nay, temperately! Your promise.

The fires in the lowest hell fold in the

people!

Call me their traitor, thou injurious

Tribune!

Mark you this, people?!

The crowd responds, egged on by Cassius and Tamora. A murmur

of voices, a chant growing, "Traitor traitor

traitor..."

Brutus cleverly plays the reasonable voice, knowing his words

will further rile Coriolanus:

But since he hath

Served well for Rome--

What do you prate of service?

I talk of that, that know it.

You?!

I'll know no further.

Let them pronounce death, exile,

Flaying, pent to linger

But with a grain a day - I would not buy

Their mercy at the price of one fair

word!

65.

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

Volumnia watches, alarmed now. She knows this rage will prove

to be disastrous for her son.

INT. TELEVISION STUDIO - DAY

Sicinius seizes the moment to destroy Coriolanus, barking

into the microphone:

In the name of the people

And in the power of us the Tribunes, we,

Even from this instant, banish him our

city!

In the people's name,

I say IT SHALL BE SO!

Well-rehearsed by Cassius and Tamora, many in the crowd

respond with a fierce cry:

It shall be so! It shall be so! Let him

away!

He's banished! IT SHALL BE SO!

It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall

be so...!

Cassius and Tamora keep the crowd at a fever pitch--

They keep chanting and railing--

A building seismic rumble--

Hear me, my masters, and my common

friends--!

He's sentenced. No more hearing.

Let me speak!

The crowd's fury is building--

It is all about to erupt--

66.

There's no more to be said, but he is

As enemy to the people and his country.

IT SHALL BE SO!

It shall be so! It shall be so! It shall

be so...!

His rage is volcanic--

He SLAMS the standing microphone away--

His dragon's ROAR silences the entire studio--

YOU COMMON CRY OF CURS!

A collective intake of breath--

The crowd is stunned--

Whose breath I hate

As reek of the rotten fens, whose loves I

As the dead carcasses of unburied men

That do corrupt my air...

(each word an attack)

I BANISH YOU!

The crowd is silent. No one dares to even breathe.

AT THE VILLA: Volumnia watches, frozen, breathless.

IN THE APARTMENT: Aufidius stands, riveted.

BACK IN THE STUDIO:

Here remain with your uncertainty.

Let every feeble rumor shake your hearts!

Your enemies, with nodding of their

plumes,

Fan you into despair! Have the power

To banish your defenders, till at length

Your ignorance - which finds not till it

feels,

67.

Making but reservation of yourselves;

Still your own foes - deliver you

As most abated captives to some nation

That won you without blows!

A beat.

The TV cameras hum. The crowd is silent.

Menenius and the others watch in amazement.

Coriolanus slowly takes one last, long look at the people of

Rome.

Despising,

For you, the city, thus I turn my back.

He turns and slowly walks toward one of the tunnels leading

from the studio.

The crowd follows every step with their eyes.

He stops.

Turns back.

Steel.

There is a world elsewhere.

And he goes down the tunnel.

Disappearing from view.

A silent beat.

Then, a chilling cry of absolutely Jacobin bloodlust from the

The people's enemy is gone!

The crowd SCREAMS their approval.

The SAVAGE CRY echoes around the studio.

The echoing roar takes us to...

68.

EXT. WASTELAND CHECKPOINT - DAWN

The outskirts of Rome are an urban wasteland. Abandoned

factories. Rusting cars. Overgrown vacant lots. Collapsing

advertising billboards.

There is a lonely gas station in the distance, its neon sign

glowing a lurid green in the gray dawn light.

We are at a Roman checkpoint on the highway into the city. A

guardhouse and barrier. Some barbed wire barricades. Bored

soldiers.

Several cars pull up to the checkpoint. Two Roman security

SUVs. Menenius' familiar limousine. And Volumnia's enormous

Bentley.

Security Guards climb out of their vehicle, light cigarettes

and chat with the soldiers manning the checkpoint. Menenius,

Titus and Cominius climb from Menenius' limousine.

INT. VOLUMNIA'S BENTLEY - DAWN

Meanwhile, inside the Bentley, Coriolanus is comforting his

wife and mother:

Come, leave your tears. A brief farewell.

With many heads butts me away.

Volumnia has tears in her eyes as well. Coriolanus is

surprisingly unsentimental and tough with her:

Nay, mother,

Where is your ancient courage?

Now the red pestilence strike all trades

in Rome,

And occupations perish!

Nay, mother, I shall be loved when I am

lacked.

She nods to him, she has regained her composure.

69.

Only then do they climb from the car.

EXT. WASTELAND CHECKPOINT - DAWN

Coriolanus takes his leave:

Bid me farewell.

Farewell, Martius.

Cominius, droop not, adieu.

I'll do well yet.

He goes to Menenius, who is genuinely distraught. For all his

political machinations, he truly cares for Coriolanus.

Coriolanus is moved to see Menenius so emotional.

Thou old and true Menenius,

Thy tears are salter than a younger

man's,

And venomous to thine eyes.

If I could shake off but seven years

I'd go with thee every foot.

They embrace.

Then Coriolanus knows it is time to go. He picks up a

traveling bag and slings it over his shoulder.

Looks back at his friends and family.

A beat.

A certain darkness creeps into his expression. An ominous

resolve.

You shall hear from me still.

He turns and looks to the distance.

Miles and miles of wasteland and desolation.

70.

His future.

I go alone,

Like to a lonely dragon.

He strides off.

The soldiers manning the checkpoint raise the barrier.

Coriolanus walks under it. And begins walking down the long

highway away from Rome.

The only sound is the cold, lonely moan of the wind.

We fade to...

EXT./INT. EXILE SEQUENCE - DAY/NIGHT

Coriolanus' exile.

We see his long odyssey. It is a grueling physical journey --

and also something of a spiritual challenge. He is solitary

and without comfort: vulnerable to the elements and also to

the demons of his own psyche.

We see him as...

He walks along the barren highway. Trash piled along the

road. A car zooms past. Whoosh. He is lost in dust...

Blazing heat, like a furnace, as he trudges over desert

terrain. Burning oil wells blacken the sky in the distance...

Isolated, within himself, as he walks past the detritus of

war a burned out tank a mountain of rusted artillery

shells skeletons bleached in the sun...

His clothes are dusty and dirty now. A sandstorm. He wraps a

scarf around his head, like a burnoose. Only his eyes visible

now...

A gypsy boy in tattered clothing riding a white horse passes

him. The boy looks at him intently as he passes...

We get a sense of him moving into different terrain, up into

a mountain range, climbing...

Then descending. Pouring rain. Lightning sparking. He is

almost a Romantic figure now. Byronic. Wrapped in a cloak

against the wildness of nature; the chiaroscuro flashes of

light illuminating his haunted eyes...

71.

We end at...

EXT. OUTSIDE ANTIUM - NIGHT

Coriolanus stands. Like a statue. All his life in his blazing

eyes. He is staring at a small town in the distance.

We see a sign: ANTIUM.

His destination since he began. The home of his nemesis, the

hated Aufidius.

He begins to walk to the town.

INT. POLITICO BAR - DAY

Meanwhile, back in Rome, Brutus and Sicinius are having lunch

at their usual hangout.

They see Volumnia entering the restaurant, pulling Virgilia

after her. An ambush. She heads toward the Tribunes.

Volumnia's eyes have the grim intensity of a predator. She

looks strangely wild.

Here comes his mother.

(prepares to go)

Let's not meet her. They say she's mad.

Volumnia stalks up to them:

0, you're well met. The hoarded plague of

Requite your love!

The Tribunes try to leave, she won't let them:

Will you be gone?

You shall stay too. I would I had the

To say so to my husband.

Are you mad?

72.

Ay, fool, is that a shame? Note but this,

Hadst thou craft

To banish him that struck more blows for

Than thou hast spoken words?

(trying to escape)

0 blessed heavens...

Volumnia is creating a scene. Heads are turning.

She continues her attack on Sicinius, but is distracted and

More noble blows than ever thou wise

words,

And for Rome's good. I'll tell thee what -

Nay -- but thou shalt stay too -- I would

Were in Arabia, and thy tribe before him,

His good sword in his hand.

What then?

What then?

He'd make an end of thy posterity.

Bastards and all.

Menenius has entered the bar, seeing the trouble he goes to

them, tries to calm Volumnia:

Come, come, peace...

Pray, let us go.

He tries to leave the bar. Volumnia stops him for final

attack, something like a curse in its power:

Now, pray, sir, get you gone.

You have done a brave deed. Ere you go,

73.

This lady's husband here, this, do you

see?!--

Whom you have banished, does exceed you

all.

Well, well, we'll leave you.

Why stay we to be baited

With one that wants her wits?

I would the gods had nothing else to do

But to confirm my curses!

Menenius gently restrains Volumnia and the Tribunes finally

escape the bar.

Volumnia takes a breath, controls herself.

Could I meet 'em

But once a day, it would unclog my heart

Of what lies heavy to it.

You have told them home;

And, by my troth, you have cause. You'll

sup with me?

She turns to him. A cold and killing fire in her eyes.

Anger's my meat. I sup upon myself,

And so shall starve with feeding.

She takes Virgilia's hand and drags her out.

Menenius watches. Saddened.

Once proud Volumnia, reduced to this.

EXT. ANTIUM - NIGHT

Antium is an old Volscian city gone to seed. It is Latin in

flavor, something like Havana.

There is life to the place, a certain humid vitality. Someone

is singing in a bar. Old men are playing dominos on a patio.

Flickering TV and radio babel from terraced apartment

buildings.

74.

Coriolanus, his face still shrouded in the burnoose, like a

Hamas soldier, moves through the streets.

He takes in the life of the town as he walks. Studying the

faces of the Volscians around him.

Coriolanus sees a heavily-guarded apartment building at the

end of the street. Jeeps and SOLDIERS.

Coriolanus approaches with stealth, moving in and out of

shadows along the street, ducking into doorways and alleys,

taking advantage of the darkness.

He stops. Steps into the shadows. For he sees...

Aufidius.

Walking with a few of his officers.

Aufidius is beloved in Antium. He has an easy manner with the

people. He stops and chats. Laughs with them. He dances for a

moment with a little girl.

Coriolanus watches from the shadows, his expression complex.

There is real envy . Aufidius has such a comfortable way

with the common people, he's natural, unaffected.

Aufidius jokes with the little girl's parents for a moment

and then moves on.

Coriolanus watches Aufidius and his men go into an apartment

building.

He scans the building with the eye of a Special Forces

soldier. He sees that the soldiers guarding the building are

bored, it is perfunctory work.

Two YOUNG WOMEN, perhaps hookers, move past the front of the

building, flirting with the soldiers. The soldiers call and

whistle to them, delighted.

Coriolanus uses this distraction to slip into the shadows

behind the soldiers and sneak into the building...

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING-CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Coriolanus moves again with stealth, heading toward what is

clearly the center of the action: a noisy room on the second

floor.

The doorway is guarded by two serious GUARDS. These are not

the bored soldiers out front, these are grim and intense

warriors.

75.

Coriolanus considers his course.

Decides. Takes a breath. Focuses.

He is like ice now.

A steady stride--

He walks right up to the Guards--

Before they can even respond--

He punches one HARD in the throat -- the Guard recoils,

gasping for air--

Simultaneously, Coriolanus SLAMS his other hand violently

over the entire face of the second Guard -- grabbing his face

firmly and SHOVING him back into the door--

So hard that the door slams aside--

And Coriolanus shoves the Guard into--

INT. AUFIDIUS' CHAMBER - NIGHT

Aufidius is having dinner with some of his men, their wives

and some children--

pulling guns -- alarmed--

As Coriolanus powers in, still holding the second Guard by

He flings the Guard aside--

Aufidius and his men, all pointing weapons at Coriolanus, are

stunned.

A long beat.

Coriolanus' face is still masked by the burnoose. Only his

cold eyes are visible.

Whence comes thou? What wouldst thou? Thy

name?

Coriolanus does not respond.

76.

Aufidius is growing uneasy. His men are tense, ready to open

fire at any second.

Speak, man! What's thy name?

A name unmusical to the Volscians' ears,

And harsh in sound to thine.

The other Guard from outside, and several other soldiers,

rush in. Weapons drawn, surrounding Coriolanus.

He doesn't move a muscle.

Aufidius, intrigued by the stranger's courage, waves his men

off.

Say, what's thy name?

Thou has a grim appearance .What's thy

name?

Know'st thou me yet?

I know thee not Thy name?

Finally, Coriolanus removes his burnoose. His face is

exposed. The Volscians are stunned.

My name is Caius Martius, who hath done

To thee particularly and to all the

Great hurt and mischief; thereto witness

My surname Coriolanus.

The Volscians look to Aufidius, very nervous, unsure how to

proceed. Aufidius just stares back at Coriolanus, staggered.

Only that name remains.

Aufidius doesn't understand. Coriolanus explains:

The cruelty and envy of the people,

Who have all forsook me, hath devoured

the rest,

And suffered me by the voice of slaves to

77.

Whooped out of Rome. Now this extremity

Hath brought me to thy hearth, not out of

Mistake me not - to save my life; for if

I had feared death, of all the men in the

I would have avoided thee, but in mere

spite,

To be full quit of those my banishers,

Stand I before thee here.

Coriolanus dares to take a step toward Aufidius--

The Volscians react. Guns are raised, fingers tight on

triggers, an instant from opening fire--

Coriolanus carefully holds out his arms. He's unarmed.

Aufidius nods to his men. They hold their fire.

Coriolanus slowly crosses the room toward Aufidius. Step by

step. Their eyes are locked. Nothing else in the world

exists.

I will fight

Against my cankered country with the

Of all the under fiends. But if thou

Dares not this, then I present

My throat to thee and to thy ancient

malice...

Coriolanus stops right in front of Aufidius and slowly,

carefully, undoes his collar. Exposing his naked throat.

Bending back his head.

Ready for execution.

Which not to cut would show thee but

a fool,

Since I have ever followed thee with

hate,

And cannot live but to thy shame unless

It be to do thee service.

A long beat.

Aufidius stares at Coriolanus.

The Volscians watch, eyes wide, too tense to do anything now.

78.

Aufidius just continues to stare at Coriolanus.

Eyes locked.

Coriolanus blinks some sweat from his eyes. This tiny, human

response sparks something in Aufidius.

O Martius Martius

Each word thou hast spoke hath weeded

from my heart

A root of ancient envy.

He offers his hand.

Coriolanus takes it. Aufidius continues to hold him by the

hand, rather intensely, speaking low:

Let me twine

Mine arms about that body.

He embraces Coriolanus.

Aufidius' men finally relax. Weapons are lowered. Relieved

glances exchanged.

Some of the Volscians, though, are clearly suspicious of

Coriolanus. They watch Aufidius and Coriolanus, concerned.

Aufidius still can't quite believe his ancient enemy is now

his newest ally.

I loved the maid I married; never man

Sighed truer breath. But that I see thee

here,

Thou noble thing, more dances my rapt

Than when I first my wedded mistress saw

Bestride my threshold.

Coriolanus glances to him, perhaps a little disturbed or

embarrassed by the intensity of Aufidius' words.

Aufidius steps away from him, gestures for Coriolanus to sit.

Why, thou Mars, I tell thee,

We have a power on foot, and I had

Once more to hew thy target from thy

brawn,

79.

Or lose mine arm for it. Thou hast beat

Twelve several times, and I have nightly

Dreamt of encounters 'twixt thyself and

me.

Aufidius continues quietly, almost whispering:

Worthy Martius,

Had we no quarrel else to Rome, but that

Thou art thence banished, we would muster

From twelve to seventy, and, pouring war

Into the bowels of ungrateful Rome,

Like a bold flood, overbear it.

INT. SHOWER ROOM - NIGHT

Coriolanus sits, naked. He has finally washed off the layers

of dirt from his journey.

An old woman is using an electric razor to shave his head.

Aufidius is standing in the doorway to the room. Watching.

His eyes move over Coriolanus' body, adding up the scars and

wounds.

A pause.

Then Aufidius goes to the old woman. Takes the razor from

her. She goes.

Aufidius continues to shave Coriolanus' head himself.

It is a deeply personal act, even intimate Yet Aufidius

employs the same methodical rhythms as when he was sharpening

his knife at the opening of the story.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING-WAR ROOM - NIGHT

The Volscian military command center. Maps, recon photos and

radio equipment. Stacks of grenade launchers and arms.

Aufidius' CAPTAINS and AIDES wait alongside some bedraggled

Volsce POLITICIANS in ill-fitting suits.

Aufidius ushers Coriolanus in:

80.

0, come, go in,

And take our friendly senators by the

hands.

Coriolanus shakes hands with the politicians:

You bless me, gods.

Then Aufidius takes him to a huge military map laid out on a

pool table. Rome and her territories. Strategic markers

denote Roman forces and Volscian forces.

Therefore, most absolute sir, if thou

The leading of thine own revenges, take

The one half of my commission.

The Volscian soldiers and politicos are shocked. Aufidius is

giving Coriolanus command of half his forces!

And set down---

As best thou art experienced, since thou

Thy country's strength and weakness---

thine own ways,

Whether to knock against the gates of

Rome,

Or rudely visit them in parts remote,

To fright them ere destroy.

Aufidius looks at Coriolanus hard. There it is. The gauntlet

is thrown down. Coriolanus will have to completely betray

Rome: expose her military weaknesses, tell her secrets.

For all his neurotic intensity, Aufidius is a shrewd man.

Coriolanus nods and turns to the battle map, moving various

markers around to show Rome's defensive positions.

Aufidius watches him with Machiavellian calm.

INT. POLITICO BAR - DAY

Several weeks later, back in Rome, politics go on as usual.

Menenius is passing the Tribunes' table. They josh with him:

Is this Menenius?

'Tis he,'tis he! 0, he is grown most kind

of late. Hail sir!

Hail to you both.

Is not much missed, but with his friends.

All's well, and might have been much

He could have temporized.

Where is he, hear you?

Nay, I hear nothing. His mother and his

Hear nothing from him.

Caius Martius was

A worthy officer in the war, but

insolent,

Overcome with pride, ambitious past all

thinking,

I think not so.

And Rome sits safe and still without him.

They are distracted when people begin talking loudly,

alarmed, at the bar. They hush each other and watch the TV

over the bar. Something has happened.

On the TV: a SPECIAL REPORT. Breaking News. A scroll across

the bottom of the screen reads "The Volscians On The March?"

Reports the Volsces with two several

Are entered in the Roman territories,

And with the deepest malice of the war

Destroy what lies before them...

82.

The whole bar is growing quiet now. All watching the TV,

which shows grainy indistinct images -- like cell phone

pictures -- of troops and tanks.

'Tis Aufidius,

Who, hearing of our Martius' banishment,

Thrusts forth his horns again into the

world.

Come, what talk you of Martius?

It cannot be the Volsces dare break with

us.

The nobles in great earnestness are going

All to the Senate House. Some news is

That turns their countenances...

(he listens to his ear

piece for a second)

Yes, the first report is seconded, and

more,

More fearful, is delivered.

The TV picture switches to a flustered TV REPORTER outside

the Senate. A lot of nervous activity behind him.

It is spoke freely out of many mouths -

How probable I do not know - that Martius

Has ioined with Aufidius--

There is an audible gasp in the bar -- quickly silenced and

hushed so all can hear the TV:

--He leads a power against Rome,

And vows revenge as spacious as between

The youngest and oldest thing.

Something close to terror on the faces of the politicos.

Menenius, without a word, goes.

He does not want to believe this is possible.

83.

INT. VILLA -- BEDROOM - NIGHT

Virgilia lies on her bed.

On the TV an imbedded WAR CORRESPONDENT is giving an update,

intercut with shaky and unclear images of the Volscian army

on the move:

TV WAR CORRESPONDENT

A fearful army, led by Caius Martius

Associated with Aufidius, rages

Upon our territories, and have already

Overborne their way, consumed with fire,

What lay before them.

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Volumnia sits, almost frozen, smoking, watching the TV. Her

emotions are deep and dark.

Her son, to her the model of all Roman virtues, has betrayed

his country.

TV WAR CORRESPONDENT

Martius has joined with the Volscians -

He is their god. He leads them like

Boys pursuing summer butterflies

Or butchers killing flies.

Close up on Volumnia's face.

She gives away practically nothing.

She takes a slow drag on her cigarette.

EXT. VOLSCIAN CAMP - DAY

Urban industrial wasteland. Old factories and abandoned

warehouses. Broken asphalt. Smashed windows.

The Volscians have set up camp here. On the decaying fringes

of the city. We see military hardware. Guns. Missile

launchers. Armored vehicles.

Soldiers are cleaning weapons, cooking meals, sleeping,

playing video games.

Then...

84.

An incongruous sight...

An old barber chair floats past. Moving across the blue sky.

Carried overhead by a group of Volscian soldiers.

But there is something different about these Volscian

soldiers. They have altered their uniforms into something

pagan and primitive. All have shaved heads. Many have face

tattoos or wear striking war paint.

It is like something from LORD OF THE FLIES.

They set the barber chair down outside an abandoned factory.

This shattered and abandoned factory is Coriolanus' domain.

It is decorated with human skulls.

The CAMP BARBER, a fat man in a greasy butcher's apron,

begins to strop his razor.

Hard core young soldiers line up to have their heads shaved.

They are Coriolanus' ACOLYTES.

There is no sign of Coriolanus himself.

Aufidius and his LIEUTENANT stand on the fringes, disturbed

by the strange cult of personality that has grown up around

Coriolanus.

Do they still fly to Coriolanus?

I do not know what witchcraft's in him,

Your soldiers use him as the grace before

meat,

Their talk at table, and their thanks at

end.

And you are darkened in this action, sir.

He bears himself more proud,

Even to my person, than I thought he

When first I did embrace him.

They turn and walk to the building where Aufidius is

Sir, I beseech you, think you he'll carry

Rome?

85.

I think he'll be to Rome

As is the osprey to the fish, who takes

By sovereignty of nature.

Aufidius nods to the guards outside his quarters and enters

with his Lieutenant...

INT. VOLSCIAN CAMP-AUFIDIUS' QUARTERS - DAY

A shattered building. Old graffiti on the walls. Weapons.

Maps. Aufidius' gear.

Aufidius sits on his cot, deep in thought.

He pulls a folded bit of paper from his pocket. Carefully and

lovingly unfolds it. He has been carrying this paper for

months.

We realize it is the glossy magazine cover with the picture

of Coriolanus that Aufidius tore out earlier.

He gazes at the picture, his fingers smoothing the paper,

tracing the contours of Coriolanus' face...

Whether t'was pride,

Whether defect of judgement,

Or whether nature,

Not to be other than one thing,

Made him feared,

So hated, and so banished.

A beat as he studies the picture.

His lieutenant watches him closely, disturbed by Aufidius'

obsession with Coriolanus.

So our virtues

Lie in the interpretation of the time.

He brings the picture closer, whispering now:

One fire drives out one fire; one nail,

Rights by rights founder, strengths by

strengths do fail

And when, Caius, Rome is thine,

86.

Thou art poorest of all -- then shortly

art thou mine.

INT. ROMAN WAR ROOM - DAY

Rome is at war now, so the room is busy and tense. Maps and

video footage chart the enemy's progress. Soldiers confer

urgently outside the door.

Menenius stands with the two Tribunes, Brutus and Sicinius.

With them are several SENATORS and GENERALS.

Menenius snaps angrily:

No, I'll not go!

Go, you that banished him!

A mile before his tent fall down, and

The way into his mercy.

They stop when Titus enters with General Cominius.

Titus is dusty, has just come from somewhere. He is pale.

Truly shaken.

Menenius and the others crowd around him, waiting for his

report.

Titus sits, takes a moment to pull himself together, and then

reports with the grim severity of a death sentence:

He would not seem to know me.

A beat.

I urged our old acquaintance, and the

That we have bled together. "Coriolanus"

He would not answer to, forbade all

names...

A long beat. They wait for him to go on.

Titus searches for the words to continue.

87.

He was a kind of nothing.

(a difficult beat)

Titleless...

Till he had forged himself a name in the

Of burning Rome.

He has no more to say, his head drops.

Menenius begins to leave the room. The Tribunes stop him,

leading him to a secluded corner:

If you refuse your aid

Would be your country's pleader, your

good tongue,

More than the instant army we can make,

Might stop our countryman.

No, I'll not meddle.

Pray you, go to him.

What should I do?

Brutus stops him, with real emotion:

Only make trial what your love can do

For Rome towards Martius.

Well, and say that Martius

Return me, as Titus is returned,

Unheard - what then?

Yet your good will

Must have that thanks from Rome.

Menenius thinks about it.

You know the very road into his kindness,

And cannot lose your way.

88.

Menenius, despite all still a patriot at heart, decides.

I'll undertake it

I think he'll hear me.

The Tribunes are relieved. Cominius nods and escorts Menenius

out.

Brutus and Sicinius return to Titus.

He'll never hear him.

No?

I tell you, he does sit in gold, his eye

Red as it would burn Rome.

EXT. CHECKPOINT-HIGHWAY - DAY

The Roman checkpoint on the desolate highway. A formidable

military presence here now: soldiers, heavy weapons, tanks.

Volscian troops and a jeep can be seen down the highway.

We see Menenius' limousine pull up.

He and General Cominius climb out. Menenius is out of place

in his trim business suit: a politician among soldiers.

Menenius steels himself then passes through the Roman

checkpoint.

He walks down the highway toward the distant Volscian troops.

EXT. VOLSCIAN CAMP - DAY

Menenius is blindfolded, roughly pulled by two Volscian

soldiers.

We hear some of the soldiers hooting at him. We stay close on

Menenius' blindfolded face, sharing his feeling of

disorientation and suspense.

The Volscians drag him into the abandoned factory--

89.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - DAY

Finally his guards stop him and pull off his blindfold--

Coriolanus. Transformed.

And terrifying.

He is no longer Roman. He is not Volscian. He is, as Titus

said, "a kind of nothing."

He sits in the barber chair. His head is completely shaved.

His face is marked with martial face painting. These striking

totemic markings also cover his scarred body.

He is primitive. Inhuman. Like a dragon.

The Angel of Death.

His young warrior Acolytes -- similarly shaved and painted --

are gathered around him; his personal bodyguard and cult.

A long beat as Menenius stares at his friend, stunned at the

pagan metamorphosis.

Coriolanus just gazes back at him.

Menenius finally pulls himself together and approaches, with

The glorious gods sit in hourly synod

about thy particular prosperity, and love

thee no worse than thy old friend

Menenius does! 0 Martius, Martius!

He steps forward to hug Coriolanus. Two of the Acolytes stop

him. He can approach no further.

Menenius accepts this. No matter. He is completely confident

he will be able to manipulate his protege. He always has in

the past.

Thou art preparing fire for us. Look

thee, here's water to quench it. I was

hardly moved to come to thee, but being

assured none but myself could move

thee, I have been blown out of your gates

with sighs, and conjure thee to pardon

Rome.

90.

A long beat.

Menenius waits for an answer. Grows uneasy.

Then...

Away.

How? . Away?

Wife mother child I know not.

Are servanted to others.

Menenius can't believe this cold response--

Therefore be gone.

His frigid eyes slice into Menenius:

Another word, Menenius,

I will not hear thee speak.

Menenius stares at him, shaken to the core.

The Guards pull Menenius away.

Coriolanus doesn't even glance at him.

EXT. CHECKPOINT-HIGHWAY - DAY

Back at the Roman checkpoint, Menenius strides toward his

limousine. He has been deeply shaken by his interaction with

the transformed Coriolanus.

General Cominius follows urgently, Menenius doesn't stop:

This Martius is grown from man to dragon.

He has wings; he's more than a creeping

thing.

He stops at his limo.

91.

A beat.

He turns back to Cominius. We see the pain in Menenius' eyes.

There is no more mercy in him than there

is milk in a male tiger.

He climbs into his limo. Shuts the door.

The limousine drives off, sending up a cloud of dust that

swirls around Cominius.

INT. MENENIUS' LIMO - DAY

Menenius sits in the back of his limo as it speeds back to

Rome.

The rejection by Coriolanus has wounded him. Also he is

plagued by guilt. He helped create this monster. He pushed

Coriolanus into politics. And now Coriolanus has lost his

soul, even his humanity, and Rome is to be put to the sword.

All his fault.

This preys on him.

EXT. TRAIN TRACKS - DAY

Menenius' limousine pulls over by an isolated set of railroad

tracks. Weeds springing up. Battered advertising posters. An

old chain link fence.

Menenius climbs out of the car and walks along the tracks.

Thinking.

He stops.

He sits on the railroad tracks.

Pulls out a little pocket knife and, in the Roman fashion,

efficiently slits his wrists.

He stares out over the hideous landscape.

Blood begins to pool around his stylish shoes.

From afar we see him, sitting on the railroad tracks, alone

and forlorn in this surreal urban wasteland, like a Samuel

Beckett character.

He slumps over.

92.

Menenius is dead.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET

The red glow of dusk is shining through the cracked and dusty

windows.

Coriolanus, still in the barber chair, broods silently.

Aufidius sits nearby, watching him.

The visit from Menenius is troubling Coriolanus.

My partner in this action,

You must report to the Volscian lords how

I have borne this business.

Aufidius is curiously formal in his response, the

estrangement he feels toward Coriolanus growing:

Only their ends

You have respected; stopped your ears

The general suit of Rome; never admitted

A private whisper, no, not with such

That thought them sure of you.

This last old man,

Whom with a cracked heart I have sent to

Rome,

Loved me above the measure of a father.

Shouts and whistles from outside the factory draw their

attention.

EXT. VOLSCIAN CAMP - SUNSET

Volumnia, Virgilia and Young Martius stride past the soldiers

and mountains of military hardware. Volumnia leads, pulling

the others by the hand.

Some of the soldiers whistle. Some spit. Others laugh and

make lascivious noises. Many just watch with grim dislike.

Volumnia appears to be completely impervious to the whistles

and cruel taunts. Her head is high, back straight, eagle eye

forward. She was never more a Roman patrician.

93.

She is magnificent.

INT. ABANDONED FACTORY - SUNSET

Coriolanus stands as Volumnia, Virgilia and Young Martius are

led into the factory.

He tries to register nothing, assuming a sort of glacial

calm.

Volumnia and the others stop -- taking in Coriolanus' savage

new demeanor and appearance -- taking in the Acolytes and

pagan totems.

Volumnia just stands, peering sternly at her son. As if

daring him not to crumble before her. He doesn't.

Aufidius watches everything closely.

It is Virgilia, finally, who bravely approaches:

My lord and husband--

He stop her, almost a warning, with:

These eyes are not the same I wore in

Rome.

The sorrow that delivers us thus changed

Makes you think so.

Best of my flesh,

Forgive my tyranny, but do not say

For that "Forgive our Romans."

She shows great courage. Stepping forward and kissing him

deeply. A long kiss.

0, a kiss Long as my exile, sweet as

my revenge.

It is a perverse response. In his monomaniacal imagination,

his wife's kiss is obsessively equated with his revenge on

Rome.

He finally moves to Volumnia, simply can't resist her orbital

pull.

94.

You gods I prate,

earth.

protocol, not affection.

0, stand up blest.

He rises.

Then with no softer cushion than the

I kneel before thee.

de theatre and a masterpiece of manipulation.

What is this?

Your knees to me? To your corrected son?

Thou art my warrior;

I hope to frame thee.

She indicates Young Martius:

This is a poor epitome of yours,

Which by the interpretation of full time

May show like all yourself.

(to his son)

The god of soldiers,

Inform thy thoughts with nobleness, that

thou may prove

To shame invulnerable.

Volumnia pulls Young Martius down:

Your knee, sir.

She pulls Virgilia down:

Even he, your wife, and myself,

Are suitors to you.

95.

All three kneel before Coriolanus. A pitiable sight. But he

has no pity.

He turns, sits in the barber chair.

I beseech you, peace!

Or, if you'd ask, remember this:

Do not bid me dismiss my soldiers, or

Again with Rome's mechanics. Tell me not

Wherein I seem unnatural. Desire not

To ally my rages and revenges with

Your colder reasons.

Volumnia stands, assuming again a position of strength.

0, no more, no more!

You have said you will not grant us

anything,

For we have nothing else to ask but that

Which you deny already; yet we will ask,

That, if you fail in our request, the

May hang upon your hardness. Therefore

hear us.

Aufidius, and you Volsces, mark; for

Hear naught from Rome in private.

(coldly, to her)

Your request?

Should we be silent and not speak, our

And state of bodies would reveal what

We have led since thy exile. Think with

How more unfortunate than all living

Are we come hither, since that thy sight,

Make our eyes flow with joy, hearts dance

with comforts,

Constrains them weep and shake with fear

and sorrow,

Making the mother, wife, and child to see

The son, the husband and the father

His country's bowels out.

96.

Coriolanus' face is a study in aloof neutrality. Yet he is

listening intensely and Volumnia's words are affecting.

She fights back emotion. It is impossible to tell if this

real or feigned.

For myself, son,

I propose not to wait on fortune till

These wars determine. If I cannot

Rather to show a noble grace, thou shalt

March to assault thy country than to

Tread on thy mother's womb

That brought thee to this world.

Ay, and mine,

That brought you forth this boy, to keep

Living to time.

Young Martius stands as well and approaches his father,

challenging and warlike:

You shall not tread on me.

I'll run away till I am bigger, but then

I'll fight!

Coriolanus stares at him -- the intensity of the boy's

aggression is disturbing. And familiar.

I have sat too long.

He rises and turns as if to go--

Nay, go not from us thus!

Her command stops him. She appeals, quickly getting to the

point of her argument:

If it were so that our request did tend

To save the Romans, thereby to destroy

The Volsces whom you serve, you might

As poisonous of your honor. No, our suit

Is that you reconcile them -- so the

97.

May say "This mercy we have showed," the

Romans,

"This we received," and each in either

Give the all-hail to thee and cry, "Be

For making up this peace!"

Coriolanus does not respond.

She softens...

Speak to me, son...

Still he does not respond.

His emotions are roiling.

Still she is soft and vulnerable...

Why dost not speak?

But softness is not a note she plays naturally. She knows it.

Her natural aggressiveness comes out, anger and outrage

gradually boiling to the surface:

Thinks thou it honorable for a noble man

Still to remember wrongs? Daughter, speak

you.

He cares not for your weeping. Speak

thou, boy.

Perhaps thy childishness will move him

Than can our reasons. There's no man in

More bound to his mother, yet here he

lets me prate

Like one in the stocks!

She is assaulting him now, on the attack:

Thou hast never in thy life

Showed thy dear mother any courtesy,

When she, poor hen,

Has clucked thee to the wars and safely

Loaded with honor. Say my request's

unjust,

And spurn me back; and the gods will

98.

plague thee,

That thou restrains from me the duty

To a mother's part belongs!

Coriolanus can take no more, turns and begins to walk away--

Volumnia reacts like lightning -- grabbing Virgilia and Young

Martius and dragging them to the dirt with her--

Down! Let us shame him with our knees!

She claws at the dirt -- like Hecuba -- keening -- a shocking

explosion of raw emotion -- almost an incantation:

Down! An end! This is the last. So we

will home to Rome,

And die among our neighbors. Nay, behold!

This boy, that cannot tell what he would

But kneels and holds up hands for

fellowship,

Does reason our petition with more

Than thou hast to deny it.

She remains kneeling, panting for air.

Coriolanus looks at her. His noble mother. Clawing in the

dirt like an animal. Filthy. Despairing. Her face wet with

tears.

She looks back up at him. She senses she has failed.

It's over.

Come, let us go.

She rises slowly, her age showing. Her spirit broken. Or

seeming so.

She stares at Coriolanus as she rips off the Roman Eagle

medal she wears and flings it to the ground.

The blood red sky of sunset behind her reflects her passion

as she summons up all her strength for a lacerating and icy

This fellow had a Volscian to his mother;

His wife is in Corioles and his child

99.

Like him by chance Yet give us our

dispatch.

I am hushed until our city be afire,

And then I'll speak a little.

She turns and begins to go.

But...

We see finally Coriolanus crack.

Like a great building crumbling.

Like fissures cutting across marble.

Emotion floods into him.

He lunges forward and grabs her hand. Volumnia stops.

Time stands still.

He doesn't speak.

O mother mother...

What have you done?

He falls to his knees, clutching her hand.

Behold, the heavens do ope,

The gods look down -- and this unnatural

They laugh at.

He buries his head in her, like a lost child:

it! -

Most dangerously you have with him

(he looks up at her

If not most mortal to him.

She looks down at him. His meaning, his foreshadowing, is

clear: she has saved Rome, but he knows he is doomed. Rome

will live. He will die. This is the price for her victory

today.

100.

She is willing to pay that price. So is he.

A moment between them.

He accepts his destiny.

But let it come.

He stands, regains his composure. He slowly walks to

Aufidius.

He leans close, speaking intimately:

Aufidius, though I cannot make true wars,

I'll frame convenient peace. Now, good

Aufidius,

Were you in my stead, would you have

A mother less? Or granted less?

Aufidius?

I was moved withal.

I dare be sworn you were.

And, sir, it is no little thing to make

Mine eyes to sweat compassion. But, good

sir,

What peace you'll make, advise me.

We study Aufidius' face. He gives away nothing.

Coriolanus turns back to Volumnia. Looks at her.

She is victorious.

The crimson sky looms over her ominously.

And we go to...

INT. FORMAL MINISTRY HALL - DAY

A solemn peace treaty signing ceremony.

Coriolanus represents the Volscians. Cominius represents the

Romans. They sit side-by-side at desks signing the treaty.

Volumnia and Virgilia, gorgeously dressed, are present. So

too Brutus and Sicinius. The press films everything.

It has the stiff formality of a White House ceremony.

Cominius concludes signing:

A merrier day did never yet greet Rome,

No, not the expulsion of the Tarquins.

We have all

Great cause to give great thanks.

He looks to Volumnia.

Behold our patroness, the life of Rome.

She is erect and exalted. "The Life of Rome" personified.

She ignores her son.

Coriolanus will not look at her.

EXT. TRUCK STOP - DAY

Garish, buzzing neon. Filthy 18-wheelers refueling. Music

droning from a radio.

Aufidius, his Lieutenant and seven of his men are waiting

outside the dusty diner.

The men with Aufidius are thugs and killers, the most brutal

Volsces he could find. We note a couple of Coriolanus'

Acolytes among them. They have turned with great venom on

their hero.

They are like a mafia hit squad, waiting for Coriolanus to

return with the peace treaty.

Aufidius is deep in thought.

His Lieutenant breaks the silence:

How is it with our general?

As with a man by his own charity slain.

Our soldiers will remain uncertain whilst

'Twixt you there's difference; but the

102.

fall of either

Makes the survivor heir of all.

I know it,

And my pretext to strike at him admits

A good construction.

A beat. He continues more to himself than them, almost

convincing himself.

I raised him, and I pawned

Mine honor for his truth; who being so

heightened,

He watered his new plants with dews of

flattery,

Seducing so my friends.

At the last

I seemed his follower, not partner, and

He waged me with his countenance as if

I had been mercenary.

So he did, my lord.

The army marveled at it; and in the last,

When he had carried Rome and that we

For no less spoil than glory--

Aufidius works himself into an intense, neurotic rage:

There was it!

For which my sinews shall be stretched

upon him.

At a few drops of women's rheum, which

As cheap as lies, he sold the blood and

Of our great action -- Therefore shall he

die,

And I'll renew me in his fall.

Therefore, at your vantage,

Ere he express himself or move the people

With what he would say, let him feel your

sword,

Which we will second.

103.

Say no more.

In the distance they can see a Roman military truck

approaching. Clouds of dust billow up.

They exchange a look. This is what they have been waiting

for. They stand, stretch and prepare.

The truck stops across the highway from them and Coriolanus

gets out. He holds a copy of the peace treaty in a leather

portfolio. He is unarmed.

He stops.

He sees Aufidius and the thugs. Waiting for him. Like a death

squad.

Coriolanus looks at them.

He knows exactly what's going to happen.

He is ready.

He nods and the truck drives off.

Coriolanus slowly crosses the highway to the truck stop, like

a gunslinger walking down Main Street.

There is something new to Coriolanus here. A sort of

acceptance. He knows his time is past.

Aufidius and the thugs go to meet him. The thugs spread out a

bit, strategically, getting ready to strike. Coriolanus'

experienced eyes miss none of this.

They meet in the parking lot.

I am returned your soldier,

No more infected with my country's love

Than when I parted hence, but still

Under your great command.

He hands the treaty portfolio to Aufidius:

We have made peace

With no less honor to the Volscians

Than shame to the Romans.

104.

(handing the treaty to

Read it not,

But tell the traitor, in the highest

He hath abused your powers.

Coriolanus is ready for Aufidius' ploy. He is amused at the

obvious attempt to anger him:

Traitor? How now?

Ay, traitor, Martius.

"Martius"?

Ay, Martius, Caius Martius! Dost thou

I'll grace thee with that robbery, thy

"Coriolanus"?

He spins to the others, making the case against Coriolanus

with cutting bitterness:

He has betrayed your business and given

up,

For certain drops of salt, your city Rome-

I say "your city" - to his wife and

Breaking his oath and resolution, like

A twist of rotten silk; never admitting

Counsel of the war, but at his nurse's

He whined and roared away YOUR VICTORY!

Coriolanus tries to contain his anger:

Hear'st thou, Mars?

Name not the god, thou boy of tears.

105.

Measureless liar, thou has made my heart

Too great for what contains it. "Boy"? 0

slave.

Coriolanus' eyes miss nothing a Volscian thug shifting

a bead of sweat on another one secretly reaching into

his coat for a weapon.

Some of the Volscian thugs are clearly nervous.

Coriolanus is ready. He prepares himself mentally to die. He

is acutely controlled:

Cut me to pieces, Volsces.

Men and lads, stain all your edges on me.

It is a dare. A challenge.

"Boy"? False hound.

If you have writ your annals true, 'tis

That, like an eagle in a dovecote, I

Fluttered your Volscians in Corioles.

His gaze burns into Aufidius:

Alone I did it "Boy."

Let him die for it.

At this command, his men move--

Aufidius steps back as--

The Volscian thugs attack--

With knives, machetes and tire irons--

Coriolanus fights bravely -- disarming two, grabbing their

weapons, killing them, fighting back--

Slashing and cutting his way through the killers-

Closer and closer to Aufidius, who just watches--

Blood spattering and spraying-

But the thugs overpower Coriolanus, there are just too many--

106.

They stab him -- slicing with knives -- battering with chains

and clubs -- finally emptying pistols him into him--

It is graceless and brutal carnage.

Slaughter.

But still he comes on. Body riddled with bullets and cut to

bits. He refuses to fall. Like something immortal. An obscene

demon of blood.

Finally the thugs move away.

Coriolanus still stands. Teetering. His face is a swollen

mask of blood and gore. Blood flows from his body, pooling

around his feet, spreading across the parking lot.

Aufidius steps forward.

What is left of Coriolanus glares at him through blood.

Aufidius slowly pulls his knife. The same knife he was

sharpening so carefully at the opening of the story. It has

finally found its purpose.

Coriolanus looks at him.

Then slowly Coriolanus tries to raise one bleeding arm

this requires superhuman effort his slashed fingers

clutch his shirt he rips it open exposing his breast.

Ready.

He locks eyes with Aufidius.

Aufidius steps to him. Takes his neck. Pulls him onto the

knife. Driving it into him. Cradling his head like a lover.

They stand like this.

Then Coriolanus falls.

A pause.

Take him up.

No one moves.

Assist.

Abrupt cut to--

107.

EXT. TRUCK - DAY

Coriolanus' body is awkwardly tossed into the back of an open

truck. Like a sack of potatoes.

EXT. TRUCK - SUNSET

A crowd of Volscians are gathered around the back of the

truck. They have come to see Coriolanus' body.

We watch their faces. Normal people. A range of grim emotion.

One raises a cell phone. Takes a photo.

More phone cameras come out. Streaming video. Recording the

moment.

INT. VILLA -- LIVING ROOM - DAY

On the TV:

The footage from the cell phone video.

Coriolanus' body in the back of the trunk.

Volumnia stands.

Looking at her son.

His body sprawled ungainly in death.

No ritual or ceremony. No honor.

Her face.

Snap to black.

The End.

