WITH REVISION #1  (Blue)    WITH REVISION #5  (Goldenrod)

November 2, 1987            November 5, 1987

WITH REVISION #2  (Pink)    WITH REVISION #6  (Salmon)

November 4, 1987            November 17, 1987

WITH REVISION #3  (Green)   WITH REVISION #7  (Blue)

November 4, 1987            November 23, 1987

WITH REVISION #4  (Yellow)  WITH REVISION #8  (Pink)

November 5, 1987            November 30, 1987

FADE IN

Christmas tinsel on the light poles.  We ARE LOOKING east past

Inglewood INTO the orange grid of L.A. at night when suddenly

we TILT UP TO CATCH the huge belly of a landing 747 -- the

noise is deafening.

The usual moment just after landing when you let out that sigh

of relief that you've made it in one piece.  As the plane TAXIS

to its gate, they stir, gather personal belongings.

mid-thirties, good-looking, athletic and tired from his trip.

He sits by the window.  His relief on landing is subtle, but

we NOTICE.  Suddenly, he hears --

McClane turns, looks at the Babbit clone next to him.  Caught,

he tenses, holds his armrests in exaggerated fear.

The plane stops.  Passengers rise, start to take down overhead

luggage.  McClane does this, but as he opens the door above,

the businessman BLANCHES seeing:

Peeking out from his jacket.

Recognizing the look, McClane smiles reassuringly.

The businessman relaxes, moves off.  McClane now wrestles down

the biggest Teddy Bear FAO Schwartz had to offer.  Balancing

this, he moves down to another overhead, takes out a topcoat

and an overnighter.  Barely managing all this, he turns,

COLLIDING WITH:

She bumps noses with the bear, gives a look.

He scrutinizes the nether regions of the bear, shrugs.

McClane smiles, with just enough of a sigh to know he's as

wistful about things-that-might-have-been as she is...moves

down the aisle.

CLOSE ON A bottle of Dom Perignon as the cork explodes across

a large office floor decorated for Christmas.  A Japanese man,

mid-fifties standing on a desk holds up the bottle triumphantly

and looks out at an adoring audience of junior executives and

office personnel.  He is JOSEPH TAKAGI, Sr V.P. of Sales for

Nakatomi, a multinational corporation.

In the b.g., obviously still at work, an attractive BUSINESSWOMAN

in her mid-thirties, studying a computer printout, heads toward

her office.  Falling into step with her is HARRY ELLIS,

thirty-seven, V.P. of Sales.  Well-dressed, with stylish,

slicked-back hair, he looks and acts very smooth.

She turns into:

Her name is HOLLY GENNARO MCCLANE, though the nameplate on her

door stops after the first two.  She puts the printout down

on her secretary's desk.

Holly ignores the come-on, turns to her secretary.

Ginny slowly manipulates herself out of her seat.  She is

enormously pregnant.

Holly just points to the door.  He follows Ginny out, clearly

not giving up.  Just then the party on Holly's phone picks up

and we:

where a five-year old LUCY MCCLANE races her YOUNGER BROTHER

to the phone, winsthe wrestling match, and answers with a sense

of importance.  An Xmas tree is in the b.g.

Holly suddenly smiles.  It is the first time we've seen her

smile and it speaks volumes about the person hidden under a

tough business exterior.

She looks up and watches Ellis leave.  He "shoots" her with a

"catch ya later" wink.

Lucy hands the phone to a young Salvadorian woman, PAULINA,

the housekeeper.

Holly hides a trace of disappointment.

Holly's smile comes through again.

McClane, wearing his wool topcoat and carrying the biggest

stuffed animal FAO Schwartz had in stock and his hangup bag,

comes down the American Airlines ramp and into the terminal.

He avoids one near-collision involving his stuffed animal, an

act which drives him into another fender bender with a CUTE

GIRL who looks like she's ready for high tide at Zuma.  As she

smiles, weaves onward, McClane looks at his own Arctic gear

and then the girl as she kisses a similarly garbed boyfriend.

He looks around the terminal at:

FAMILY REUNIONS are going on all around his as grandparents

greet grown children and their children, YOUNG WIVES greet

uniformed SOLDIERS, our Babbit businessman greets a pleasant

wife and two pleasant kids.  It's all very traditional, very

touching and not the least bit corny.

McClane watches, moved by the sight, then looks around the

waiting area, just on the chance his family might be waiting.

Instead he spots a thin, gangling black kid, ARGYLE, in an

ill-fitting chauffeur's uniform.  As he waits he beats out a

rhythmn on a "Nakatomi Corporation" card with J. McCLANE written

on it in magic marker.  McClane pauses in front of him, unsure.

He turns and starts walking.  McClane paces him, still juggling

bag and giant animal.

TILT UP from the Lincoln emblem on the car.

Both Argyle and McClane are in the front seat.

He looks in the back seat, which is occupied by the bear.

McClane tries to get comfortable, scowls as a RUSTLING NOISE

reveals wrappers and styrofoam from Taco Bell.  He scowls at

Argyle.

McClane gives up.

McClane grins, he like Argyle even if he is direct.

A hard RAP SONG blasts from the speakers.

And damned it if isn't, the Fat Boys of Run DMC doing a

revisionist number on WHITE CHRISTMAS or something.  McClane

gives up, looks out the window.

Convertibles with Christmas trees in their back seats,

Time/Temperature signs which reads:  69 degrees, palm trees

trimmed in Christmas lights, intermittent West side token

"Happy Chanukahs"...it is clear that Christmas L.A. style has

its own unique style.

TILT DOWN FROM one of the stars of this film, the well-lit,

impressive and spanking-new NAKATOMI BUILDING.  The limo pulls

up, parks, and Argyle gets out.  McClane lets himself out,

which is fine because Argyle doesn't remember he's supposed to

do it.  They both go to the rear of the vehicle.

Argyle climbs out of the limo and stops by the trunk.

He looks up at the highrise lit by huge spotlights, then

back at Argyle who's made no attempt to open the trunk.

He hands McClane a business card with the number on it.

McClane grins, heads inside.

Beautiful and -- on first glance -- deserted.  Finally a

SOUND in the sterile lobby reveals the presence of a

SECURITY GUARD hidden until now behind a massive desk.

McClane goes there, signs in.

The Guard points to a prominent touch screen computer console.

McClane is confused for a moment, then he moves to the screen.

He gives the Guard a look...the Guard raises his eyebrows as

if to say give it a try.

McClane types, "McClane, Holly".  Pause.  The screen replies,

NO SUCH EMPLOYEE LISTED.

Frowns...thinks.  Simultaneously inspired and suspicious, he

types again.

McClane types, GENNERO, HOLLY.  This time the screen CHANGES,

shows an elevation of the building and then a floor plan of the

30th floor with Holly's office BLINKING.                      *

McClane nods, moves off.  He moves to the elevators, and as he

does his experienced eye takes in:

Patrolling a different area.

which are cleverly worked into the decor of the lobby.

McClane reacts with bored professionalism, NODS to the guard.

The guard shrugs.  McClane gets in the elevator.

McClane hits "30" and REACTS to the hyper-powered SPEED with

which he rises.  He rotates his head, getting out the travel

cricks.

As he approaches the 30th floor we hear a tremendous THUMPING,

THROBBING NOISE.  McClane stops and listens before he

realizes -- it's the party.  As the doors open the noise

ATTACKS us.

McClane moves around the edge of the party, gradually

spiraling inward.  He grabs a glass of Mimosa champagne punch

from a passing tray, sips...scowls.  Spotting open beers in

an ice bucket, he tosses the punch into a potted plant, even

burying the plastic glass.  Sipping the beer, he moves through

the dense party.  People he doesn't know throw streamers over

him.

A WOMAN kisses him.  He grins.  A MAN kisses him.

Finally he queries a DANCING WOMAN.  The MUSIC drowns out their

words but she nods, points off in some generic direction.

McClane heads that way, cuts around a Christmas tree, loses

his bearings.  He sees:

who has an air of authority.  McClane goes up to him.

Takagi smiles, leads the way.  As they approach Holly's office

door, McClane notices the name there is -- again -- "Gennero".

Ellis is behind the desk.  He's SNIFFLING and just as they

come in he SWEEPS the back of the slick desktop with his hand.

Both McClane and Takagi catch on...but Takagi tries to hide

his awareness.

Ellis REACTS, runs a checking finger under his nose.

McClane laughs.  He likes this guy.

The door OPENS.  Holly comes inside.

A moment.  Does the sound of the party stop for him?  We know

it.  For her?  It's more cryptic.  We sure hope so.

She laughs, kisses him on the cheek.  Ellis notes the awkwardness.

As she hesitates:

He takes Holly's wrist, holds it up.  McClane smoothly takes

the wrist away from Ellis, looks at the watch.

They go out.  Alone, Takagi's look at Ellis shows his

disapproval of certain snow at Christmas.

An Emory freight truck turns off Olympic into the underground

parking garage of Nakatomi.

It goes down the ramp and passes Argyle's black limo.  The

driver's seat is EMPTY.

Argyle sits in the back seat hidden from the outside world by

the tinted rear windows.  He is making a drink from the bar

with the TV on and his rap music blasting from the cassette

player, oblivious to the truck passing behind him.

The Emory truck stops in front of the service elevator on the

next level down.  As the truck idles, the uniformed driver

makes a note on his clipboard.

TILT UP FROM McClane's BARE FEET.  He is clenching and

unclenching his toes.

The Guard at the front desk notices the Emory truck on his

monitor.  The Guard continues to watch the Emory truck and

only half notices as a Mercedes pulls up in front of the

building and two extremely well-dressed BUSINESSMAN (late

twenties) climb out and start up the stairs for the door.  As

they cross the lobby to the Guard's table to sign in, we hear

their conversation.

Suddenly the other man pulls out a Walther pistol with a

silencer and aims it at the Guard's forehead.  Before the

Guard can react he pulls the trigger.

(The speed with which the murder takes place sets the tone

for the rest of the action.)  The killer moves behind the

desk, stepping over a small pool of blood from the Guard.

His name is KYLE, big, with long blond hair like a rock

drummer.  Karl takes off the silencer and looks at the video

monitor of the Emory truck.  The first man, Theo, opens his

briefcase, takes out a portable CB radio and speaks into it.

the driver nods at the security camera as several men climb out of

the rear of the van and begin unloading wooden crates by the

service elevator.

McClane looks at all the lavishness around him and picks up a

phone by the toilet.  He opens his wallet and takes out the

phone number Argyle have him.  A photo of his children stops

him.

It's of Holly, the two children and himself in happier days:

Six months ago, before Nakatomi came calling to Holly's door.

McClane flips it over.  On the back in crude but painstaking

hand of a five-year-old it says:  WE MISS YOU, DADDY.  LOVE

LUCY (and in more primitive letters) JOHN.

McClane returns the photo to his wallet, dials the number.

Theo enters the small control room and comfortably sits behind

a maintenance keyboard.  Whistling a vaguely familiar tune, he

TYPES in some commands and locks down the passenger elevators

up to the 30th floor.  Then with several more computer commands,

systematically causes:

Theo finishes typing and disconnects the keyboard and pulls out

the wires from beneath the panel.

The doors to a service elevator open TO REVEAL HANS GRUBER,

impeccably dressed, lean and handsome, he steps out into the

lobby like he owns the building -- and in a way he does.

Theo steps to the door of the control room and tosses Hans a

COMPUTER CARD.

Hans goes to the front door, waves the card over a magnetic

plate.  An LED BLINKS and the door LOCKS with a THUD.

Hans looks out at the street.  Appropriately enough, "not a

creature is stirring."  Century City is quiet.

An elevator opens REVEALING TEN MORE MEN, all armed with

Kalashnikov machine guns are carrying canvas kit bags.  One

of them, EDDIE, a rugged American in his twenties, goes to

the dead guard and immediately begins changing into his cloths.

Meanwhile:

looks at his watch and seems pleased.  He steps into the service

elevator with the others and presses the button for the 30th

floor.  The entire sequence has taken maybe sixty seconds.

McClane is still barefoot, his pant legs now rolled up above

his ankles.  He stretches his toes again.  Damn, it works.  He

lights up a new Marlboro, dials a number on the (bathroom)

phone.

A large sign says:  PACIFIC BELL EMPLOYEES ONLY.  Inside Tony

stands in front of an intimidating matrix of phone lines -- but

what he has in mind won't require a doctorate in Electrical

Engineering.  Karl comes over, gives his an elder brother's

punch on the arm, points out what to do.  Together they focus

on four CPV plastic conduits which run out of the main panel

over their heads.  Tony nods.  Opens a case REVEALING a

compact electric chainsaw.

Argyle is reclining on the seat.  The music is on so loud that

it is nearly impossible to hear.

Karl cuts through the four tubes one at a time.

McClane on the phone.

He stops and gently taps the phone cradle.  No dial tone.

Argyle looks at the phone.

He turns down the music but there is on one on the line.

He hangs up and turns the volume back up.

McClane hangs up the original phone and then tries the other

one on the desk.  It, too, is dead.

Hans and the others approaching the 30th floor.  As they grow

closer, we hear the noise of the speakers growing louder and

louder.  The men cock their weapons and brace themselves as the

car stops and the elevator doors open.  ON THE SOUND OF GUNSHOTS

AND SCREAMS WE:

McClane grabs his shoulder harness off the back of the chair,

moves quickly to the doorway.  He looks down the hall.

Two terrorists, FRANCE and FRITZ, armed with M-5 machine guns

searching the offices on the hall one by one.  They open a door,

look in from the hallway, and move on quickly to the next.

They are four offices away and moving fast.

McClane looks across the corridor and sees the stairwell door

-- too far to reach without being seen.

steps back, throws off the safety on his Beretta and braces

himself.  He opens the door, peers through a crack at:

QUICK CUTS as McClane's eyes SCAN their weapons...he's totally

outgunned, and he knows it.

Franco and Fritz reach the office just before Ellis' and throw

open the door REVEALING the man and woman who interrupted Holly

and McClane a few minutes before, now in the throes of

passionate lovemaking on the desk.  The two terrorists smile

at each other, then enter the office.

A moment later the man, (trying desperately to pull up his

pants) and the woman (buttoning her blouse) are pushed out

into the hall and toward the larger group by Fritz.  The other

terrorist, Franco, goes to Ellis' office and opens the door.

It is...empty.

CLOSE ON McClane's bare feet padding quickly up the concrete

stairs, two at a time.  We FOLLOW him up, then out onto the:

This is the mezzanine floor immediately above the main

Nakatomi lobby.  McClane sees Theo and KRISTOFF wheeling carts

of equipment.  McClane ducks back into the stairwell, he runs

up another flight and out onto:

Eventually it will be one large secretarial pool, but only a

portion is completed.  Half-finished partitions and office

furniture in its original plastic wrappings are everywhere.

One end has a few lonely finished working areas.

McClane moves quickly to a desk and picks up a phone.  It's

out.

He looks out the window at:

A high-rise apartment building a half-block away sparkles with

lights.  McClane stares at a PRETTY GIRL in her bedroom.  She's

wearing drop dead underwear right out of the Victoria's Secret

catalog.  As we watch, she flops down on her bed, and with

one long leg in the air, effortlessly dials

a call on her high-tech phone.  It seems so easy.

Frustrated, he watches this, knits his brow.

The employees have been herded to the center of the room where

the desks have been pulled back.  Many people are whimpering.

She looks around the room for McClane.  She's so intent on

this that she doesn't see one TERRORIST waving her forward.

Exasperated, he SHOVES her.  Her glare at him shows us her

mettle.

As the employees are bunched together, Ellis seeks out Holly.

He's clearly scared but trying to fake courage.  He pats her

hand "reassuringly."

Hans steps up on top of a desk and looks over the group.  He

reaches into a pocket...several people CRINGE...but what he

comes out with is a Bottega Venata pocket notebook.  He checks

his own scribblings like a dais speaker.

Takagi is shoved forward.  He's worried but far from cowed.

Hans steps towards him.  Extends a hand.

Takagi is confused by his charm.  Hans waves politely in the

direction of an elevator and with an armed escort takes the

executive away.  CAMERA ADJUSTS to show Holly, concerned.

McClane pauses outside the stairwell door to the 33rd floor,

he presses the handle and cracks the door open TO REVEAL a

computer floor.  The computer machinery drones on under the

lights behind plate glass windows.  McClane quietly closes

the door and moves to another floor.

Hans, Takagi, Karl and Tony.  Riding silently.  Hans alone

seems relaxed.  He whistles.  We recognize it as a snatch of

Wagner.

Takagi stares at him, speechless.

McClane starts to open the stairwell door to the Machine Floor

when a NOISE above him gets his attention.  He moves silently

up one flight to the roof.  Quietly, he cracks the door and

looks out onto a Machine Floor on the lower level of the roof.

Three terrorist, JAMES, ULI and HEINRICH, are unpacking the

wooden crates we saw in the garage from the service elevator.

It's not clear what they're doing but it seems very military

like and ominously defensive.  Heinrich POINTS up to the

ceiling and says something in German.  The others nod.  Heinrich

starts to turn towards the CAMERA and:

closes the door and slips back down the stairs.

Hands enters, looks around.                                   *

Hans admired a scale model of a bridge.  Behind him are       *

photographs of the gorge where the bridge will be constructed.

Karl and Tony listen.  Takagi watches.

Hans straightens, looks hard at Takagi.

Takagi looks confused.  Hans puts a friendly arm around Takagi's

shoulders and guides him into the adjacent board room where

Theo types in commands onto a built-in computer console.

sits fingers poised over the keyboard.  Hans sits opposite.

Takagi stands like the accused at the foot of the table, has

just read the screen, blurts:

Hans barks him to silence:

Takagi complies.  Hans is abruptly compassionate and quiet.

ON Takagi's reaction.

He tiptoes along, gun held ready.  He can HEAR the MUMBLE of

voices from the conference room, moves slowly towards it.

Hans slowly takes out his Walther and his silencer.  He feels

his silencer a moment, as if making a decision, then slips it

back into his coat pocket.

Hans lifts the gun.

Hans gives them both a look like an annoyed schoolmaster,

turns back to Takagi.

He cocks the gun:

BANG!!  He pulls the trigger:

reacts as if shot.

The glass doors to the boardroom are splattered red and

dripping...

Takagi is still seated, but the chair in flat on its back,

blood flowing out into the carpet.

Hans springs to his feet:

Karl, in the midst of handing Theo a fifty dollar bill, nods.

stunned, sees Hans move and tries to retreat.  But his gun

bumps the underside of the table:

hears it.  Karl is the first to move:

springs through the door, finds nothing.  He checks two

adjoining rooms, the first is deserted.  The second...is

locked.

returns to Hans.

As he heads for the elevator.

Hans smiles, confident in his team, and follows.  CAMERA

SETTLES ON the door that Karl found locked.

slowly lets out a breath, praying softly:

Argyle is on the car phone.  The music is playing.

Heinrich PRESSES something into a niche here, scrambles like

a monkey to a new position.  Helped by one of his men, he

JUMPS down, moves to another area, climbs up again, removing

something from his shoulder bag.

Hans and Theo enter the safe room.  The huge corporate safe

looms in front of them.  Theo places three kit bags onto a

table and rolls up his sleeves.  He swivels a computer console

into handy reach, sits down.

Theo grins, begins typing.

He types BEGIN ALGORITHM CODE PROGRAM.  RANDOM NUMBERS AND

LETTERS begin going by:  AAAAA; 11111; AAAAB; 11112.

McClane moves out onto the 31st floor, angry at himself.

Suddenly he looks up at the ceiling and sees a sprinkler head.

His look drops to the wall and focuses on a small red fire alarm

switch by the door.

An ALARM sounds.  Quickly firemen move to their machines as a

voice of a 911 DISPATCHER drones.

The voice continues as the station doors open and we:

A fire alarm indicator light showing which floor has sounded the

fire alarm -- suddenly begins flashing, emitting short, loud

beeps.  Eddie, the terrorist in the guard's uniform and manning

the station, immediately picks up his CB.

McClane stands at windows looking Northward for fire trucks.

Suddenly we SEE the flashing red lights of FOUR ENGINES in

traffic two miles away.

He rides the elevator back to the 30th floor with Tony.

They've heard the alarm here, too.  Heinrich, Marco and       *

Uli HEAR the alarm and continue their mysterious work.

McClane stands silhouetted against the window.  In the distance

he can see another fire truck swing off Santa Monica onto

Avenue of the Stars.

Suddenly the red light on the first truck goes out, then on the

second.  McClane watches in disbelief.  The trucks slow and

turn down separate side streets, heading for home.

Just then the elevator bell rings and we HEAR the ELEVATOR DOORS

OPEN.  A figure (Tony) slips into the shadows -- his machine

gun drawn.  We MOVE WITH HIM FROM the elevator area until he

reaches the light switch and throws it illuminating the entire

floor.  McClane is gone.

under a desk.  He takes in his options.

The feet of Tony.  They move slowly in his direction.  McClane

Looks down the aisle next to the windows.  It leads to a series

of cubicles at the other end of the floor and is a clear path

if he can make it past Tony.

He moves steadily toward the area where we saw McClane.

Moving more confidently, he steps up to McClane's desk, then

around it and fires a blast into the space.  It is empty.  As

the SOUND OF THE MACHINE GUN FADES he listens and hears another

SOUND -- a NOISE coming from the other end of the room near

the cubicles.

Tony heads toward the noise.  Sensing a trap, he moves past

each cubicle carefully, checking each office until he reaches

the doorway of the last one.  The sound is just around the

partition.  He tenses, then spins into the cubicle.

A radial arm saw spins noisily.

grins at his nervousness.  He moves to turn it off, not

realizing the sound has buried the soft rustle of McClane,

steps INTO FRAME behind him, McClane shoves his pistol barrel

against Tony's temple.

Tony doesn't.  McClane cocks his Beretta.  Tony watches him

calmly.

McClane suddenly PISTOL WHIPS Tony across the head.  Tony

REELS, then swallows, worried for the first time.

Suddenly Tony spins to the side and McClane FIRES, but the

big man's momentum slams McClane into a filing cabinet and sends

his pistol into the hall.

Tony fires his machine gun, but McClane kicks him into the desk.

He locks his arms around the big man's neck in a hold that

sends Tony reeling into the hall.  McClane holds on as they

slam through several plastic board partitions.  They careen

across the hall into the stairwell door, opening it, and crash

into:

then down the concrete steps into the wall on the landing below.

For a moment, both men lie still.  McClane, still holding onto

Tony's neck, releases it and the man's head flops sickeningly

to the side.

For a moment McClane just looks at the dead man.  Then, slowly,

methodically, he begins to SEARCH HIM.  He turns all his pockets

inside out, looks at his clothing labels, stares long and very

hard at a California driver's license with Tony's picture on

it.  He expertly examines the machine gun when a HISSING SOUND

coming from somewhere attracts his attention.

He rises, moves cautiously to the source.

It's Tony's CB, which has fallen from the dead man's waist during

the struggle.  McClane stares at it, formulating a plan.

PAN FROM Tony's now shoeless feet TO McClane, who sits on the

floor near the body hurriedly lacing up the dead terrorist's

boots on his own feet.  He ties the last lace and tries to take

a couple of steps.

He winces in pain, goes off balance.  Quickly he starts taking

the boots off.

He yanks off the boots and tosses them into the garbage.  Then

he pulls the body up and sets it down on a secretary's chair.

He starts to push it along when he gets an idea and moves to:

Where he scribbles a note we cannot read on a piece of paper.

Then his eyes fall on some Xmas decorations nearby.  He smiles

to himself.

TIGHT ON McClane's back as he pushes Tony's body on swivel

chair into the elevator.  (NOTE:  WE CANNOT SEE TONY'S HEAD)

CAMERA ADJUSTS as McClane pushes the buttons for the 31th and

30th floors.

We notice he's got the dead man's machine gun and that a wooden

desk ruler protrudes from McClane's back pocket.

The elevator doors close and the car starts down.  After it's

dropped only half a floor, McClane forces the doors open with

his fingers -- stopping the car between floors.

Using the ruler he blocks open the inside doors, then opens the

outside doors of the floor above (31st) with his fingers and

pulls himself up onto the carpeted floor, then up onto the roof

of the car.  Once on the roof of the car he reaches over the

edge and removes the ruler, closing the inside doors and setting

the car in motion again.

The hostages have been gathered together in a group in the center

of the open floor, guards flanking them.  The elevators are

barely visible from the edge of the group, which is where Ginny

and Holly are sitting.  Ginny winces, uncomfortable on the floor.

Holly soothes her.  Hans stands in front of them like a stern

camp counselor in front of the assembled bunk.

A "DING" attracts his attention.  He turns.

The elevator doors OPEN and Fritz, guarding the area.  WHIRLS,

gun held ready.  His jaw drop as he sees:

Still and dead, flopped in a swivel chair, a red Santa hat

gaily placed on his head.

REACTS.

The guards quickly hustle the hostages away as Hans crosses to

the elevator, but for before.

Sees the body...and REACTS.  She knows her husband's abilities...

not to mention his twisted sense of humor.

As Fritz stands there, confused, Hans comes to the elevator with

Franco, lifts Tony's chin and sees that his neck has been

snapped.  He sees a folded piece of paper in Tony's collar,

takes it out.

It reads, "Now I have a machine gun.  HO-HO-HO."

Hans lifts Tony's chin again, lets the head flop over.

McClane is staring through a tiny crack at the scene below him.

CAMERA ADJUSTS from Fritz in the b.g. to Hans and France just

below.

McClane is WRITING in his weather-beaten cop's notebook.  The

first notation is NUMBER OF HOSTAGES:  HOLLY + 30 -- odd.  Then

it says, NUMBER OF TERRORISTS?  As we watch, he adds "3 ? 1

roof (3)."

Now McClane writes "HANS=LEADER.  Karl=BROTHER.  USE THIS?"

As Fritz calls Karl on his CB, Hans looks at Franco.

On top of the car, listening to the conversation below.  Franco

and Fritz step into the car and the doors on the elevator close.

The car accelerates upward and McClane grabs onto the heavy,

grease-coated cables to keep his balance.  Already his clothes

are soiled; his face and feet, arms and hair are dark from the

dirt and sweat.  The car speeds up the shaft -- passing the car

bringing Karl down to the hostage floor -- and stops at the

machine floor.  The doors open and McClane hears them roll the

chair with the body off the car.  McClane looks up.

A metal catwalk runs around the inside of the elevator shaft.

pulls himself up onto it.  As he moves along the catwalk looking

for a way out, he passes an unmarked metal door, 2'x3'.  McClane

pushes it open and looks in.

Total darkness.

takes out a coin.  A quarter.  He stops, switches to a nickel.

Throws it into the void.  It is a full four seconds until we

HEAR it "CHING" and bounce on concrete far below.  You don't

have to be a mathematics whiz to know it's a long drop.

He moves cautiously around a corner and we SEE a metal ladder

leading up to a door marked PUMP ROOM.  Opening the door

McClane enters a darkened:

damp and full of pipes and goes to another door.  He cracks the

door and looks out.

The lower level of the roof.  Open and deserted.  Only a heliport

above him is higher.

WIDEN as a FILING CABINET is FLUNG across the floor, drawers

SLAMMING out, papers flying.  KARL has done this, and he's    *

barely started.  He FLINGS a LAMP against a wall, PUNCHES a hole

into the plaster.  Finally, Hans goes to him, lays controlling

hands on the man's shoulder.

He starts to move.  Hans stops him.

For once Hands doesn't have an answer.

They've heard the alarm, can see and sense the agitation among

their captors.  Ellis slides over to Holly.

McClane climbs to the heliport and leans against the leeward side

of a wall surrounding it.  Shielded from wind, he pulls out the

CB, turns to channel nine, and starts broadcasting.

Hans, Karl, Fritz and France hear the clear signal over Hans'

CB.

Karl looks almost...satisfied.

They move.

A SUPERVISOR weaves her way back from the break room toward a

DISPATCHER who is monitoring the call.

She plugs in her headset.  (Her condescending, arrogant tone is

like the one in the famous tape where the dispatch lady spends

so much time on red tape that the patient dies.)

with Franco and Fritz.

It's an order and the look he gives the other two backs it up.

Karl checks his magazine, SLAPS it into his rifle as the elevator

opens to the roof.

McClane moves around the roof, circling the helipad, making sure

he has a good enough view to avoid being ambushed.  He can't

see in all directions at once but he's doing the best he can.

Suddenly machine gun shells rip into the concrete wall in front

of him.  The noise is deadening as we:

Both Supervisor and Dispatcher reach for their headsets in

pain from the INTENSE SOUND and:

Running.  Tracer bullets rip into the wall behind him.  He

reaches the corner and sees the other two terrorists moving

toward him.  Before they see him, he leaps down to the next

level out of range of Karl.

The Dispatcher looks critically at the Supervisor in the

sudden silence.

TIGHT as one after another after another HOSTESS TWINKIE is

stacked up on the counter.  CAMERA WIDENS and we SEE the

young male CLERK, who stifles a smile.  Another teenage

employee behind the counter also smothers a laugh.

The customer is POWELL, young for a police veteran, old for

the rest of the world.

The Clerk nods and puts them in a bag.  As Powell pays, suddenly

his BELT RADIO crackles to life.

Powell grabs the radio, speaks into it.

He moves to the door, steps outside.

Powell looks towards the horizon and up.

There it is, Nakatomi, in all its gleaming glory.

Powell is already moving to the car.  He tosses in the twinkies,

hops behind the wheel.

And he BURNS RUBBER leaving the store:

running for his life, from Fritz and Franco, doesn't realize

he is being herded around the building toward Karl.  Suddenly

McClane turns a corner and sees Karl.  The big man fires a

burst and McClane ducks back stopping at the exterior door

to the pump room he used before.  It is locked from the inside.

He BLOWS the lock off with a burst from his machine gun and

slips into the darkness of the:

Coming quickly out of the pump room, McClane picks his way

over the same ground as a few minutes before and opens the door

to the elevator shaft.  The dimly lit shaft yawns before him.

He starts down the ladder back to the catwalk, moves along

it -- STOPS.

The catwalk ends, and the elevator is gone.

Karl crosses, starts to open the door to the elevator shaft

when suddenly their radio crackles with --

Karl turns off his radio.  In the light of their flashlights,

the two other terrorists look at Karl in stunned disbelief.

He opens the door to the elevator shaft.

He's OVERHEARD enough of this to realize he's in deep shit.

He backtracks to the air shaft door, strikes a cigarette

lighter.

Karl steps off the ladder to the catwalk, his own gun held    *

ready.

HEARING Karl's approach, McClane thinks fast, looks down at

his narrow confines, and then at:

and its canvas gunsling and metal strap slides.

Quickly, McClane lets out all the slack in the sling.  Then,

he BRACES the weapon across the outside opening of the air

shaft door and lowers himself into the:

meanwhile holding onto the canvas sling with his elbows bent

over it like a kid doing a half-asses skin-the-cat on a swing

set.

His feet slowly move down the smooth aluminum walls until they

reach the top of the air duct, then DANGLE in the open space.

He straightens his arms to give him length enough to touch

the bottom edge of the duct.

Suddenly he FEELS something GIVE above him and looks up.

It was designed to carry a gun on a man, not vice versa.  The

few inches of extra canvas are sliding through the clips.

When they're gone...he will be too.

He moves silently toward the corner.

now only inches from the bottom edge.  McClane's arms are

fully extended now.  He hears Karl on the metal catwalk.  His

muscles strain and quiver.

One of the canvas end slips through the clip.

FALLING.  He grabs the ledge of the air duct as he falls and

his body slams into the aluminum wall with an echoing BOOM.

Above him on the catwalk the rifle rattles on the metal outside

the door.

Around the corner Karl FREEZES, unsure of the sound:

holding onto the ledge by his hands.  With every ounce of

strength he tries to pull himself up into the horizontal duct,

clawing for a hold.

He rounds the corner and sees McClane's rifle lying beneath

the doorway.  He moves to the small door, shines his light and

aims his rifle down into the air shaft ready to fire.

The shaft is deserted.  Moving his light around he sees the air

duct.  Without hesitation he turns and backtracks to the pump

room door.

He lies exhausted and motionless in the narrow crawl space.  He

awkwardly fishes out the lighter from his shirt pocket and

thumbs it ON.

The flickering GLOW shows him this ain't no place for

claustrophobics -- it's a long, long long dark and narrow

corridor full of weird shadows.  The far end (if there even

if one?) is BLACK.

He turns out his lighter, and starts crawling.

The three terrorists rush down from the roof in hot pursuit,

Karl leading the way through the door.  Karl points quickly to

the left and right where there are a series of rooms.  The

others checks these while Karl approaches the CAMERA, trigger

finger ITCHING.  Almost immediately, the others return.

Karl looks puzzled.  Then he thinks, mentally retracing McClane's

few options.  Karl's eyes scan the architecture here, and then

suddenly he looks UP.

The ceiling is criss-crossed with air ducts.  He fires a      *

burst into the ducts.

McClane remains motionless in the air duct.  Three quarter-size

holes inches from his face show how close Karl came to nailing

him.  Sweat covers his face, drips silently onto the aluminum.

Karl listens patiently for sound.  Just then the two other

terrorists return.

Karl hesitates a moment, fighting his instincts before finally

turning to go.  Suddenly the duct McClane is in GROANS slightly

under his weight.  Karl stops and looks up at the matrix of

aluminum duct work, trying to single out the source of the

sound.  He steps back into the room and raises his rifle.

Holding it upright he presses the barrel up into the belly

of McClane's air duct, feeling for weight -- the weight of a

body.

McClane sees the indention of the barrel pressing into the

aluminum fifteen feet away.  There is a pause and another

three feet closer.  He can hear Karl's footsteps on the

concrete -- moving slowly below the duct.

His eyes are fixed above him on the air duct.  He presses the

barrel up again.  Still nothing.

Silently he moves his hand, slowly draws his Beretta.  The

next indention presses up six feet away.  McClane points his

gun downward and waits.

stops directly below him.  The barrel starts up and just

touches the duct under McClane when Franco returns to the

door and calls:

Karl hesitates then lowers his gun and leaves.

He hears the door close and lowers his head.

The large LED WINDOW in the front of the safe BEEPS and letters

creep by:  ACCESS CODE ACCEPTED.  We HEAR a CLUNK.

CAMERA ADJUSTS to show Theo, who grins.  Now his computer

screen reads, LOCK #1 DISABLED.  DO YOU WISH TO PROCEED?

Theo puts goggles on his eyes, holds out his hands towards

Kristoff like a doctor requesting a scalpel.  Kristoff gives

him a GIANT DRILL.

He turns on the drill:

The street is empty, quiet.  A lone police black-and-white

pulls out of the shadows of a side street and begins a slow

cruise toward the Nakatomi building.

Driving, alone.  He starts up at the tower.  It seems calm,

its glowing lights matching the warmth of the holiday

decorations on the streets.  Powell slows to a stop and

scans the premises.  In the lobby we SEE Eddie, sitting behind

the desk.  Powell reports to his radio.

He pulls in and parks in the front.

McClane punches out a ceiling vent and drops down into the

machine room.  For a moment he stands, listening for sounds

of movement.  The floor is quiet.  He goes to the stairwell.

The edge of the roof.  Suddenly a tall terrorist, James,

moves along the wall and looks over at Powell's car.

The elevator doors open on Karl, Franco and Fritz.  They      *

step out onto the darkened floor.  We SEE large number "3"

painted on the doors of this floor.

They move quickly toward the windows on the Avenue of the Stars

side where a terrorist, ALEXANDER, with a BAR rifle has set up

a machine gun nest under a half-opened window.  Directly below

him we SEE Powell's car.

Alexander PANS the police car with his weapon, finger on the

trigger.  This is clearly a man hungry for action.

Hans watches from above.  He raises his CB.

Eddie picks up his CB.  He watches Powell coming up the stairs.

Eddie is a little startled, but he moves quickly.

also hears this, and his eager expression fades.  But orders

are orders.

Powell tries the front doors.  Locked.  Eddie comes hustling

across and unlocks the door with the magnetic card.

Powell steps in and looks around.  Bland HOLIDAY MUZAK filters

from Speakers here.   (LET IT SNOW)                           *

McClane makes his way to the Avenue of the Stars side of

the building, enters the board room where Takagi was shot.

McClane goes to the windows and looks down at the street.

Powell's car.

McClane waits, expectant.  Five seconds.  Ten seconds.  But

no commotion, no shouting.  He frowns.

Powell walks casually across the slick floor, eyes panning the

area.  Eddie sits casually watching a game on one of his

monitor screens.

Powell's face shows us he's starting to think he's wasting his

time.

The silent tension is driving him crazy.

He makes up his mind.  He lifts one of the big chairs and

swings it at the window.  The tempered glass whitens on the

first blow.

James sees the glass whiten below him and shouts into his mike.

Heinrich hears the radio and shouts to Marco who grabs his

machine gun and runs.

Eddie watches confidently as Powell moves through the lobby

looking for signs of trouble.

Uli is there, gun held ready.                                 *

McClane draws the chair back for the final hit when a terrorist

(MARCO) appears at the door.  Both men react, but Marco already

has his gun up.  He FIRES a round at McClane.  The bullets rip

into the table top and the chair, and McClane goes down behind

the table.

Marco smiles and moves around to the other side of the table,

but finds no one.  He looks around frantically than squats

beneath the table and sees:

lying prone, his pistol trained on him.

Just then Heinrich, the terrorist steps into the doorway, sees

the situation.

Marco dives sideways, but Heinrich still isn't quick enough.

McClane FIRES TWICE and Heinrich DROPS sprawling in the hallway,

machine gun FIRING BLINDLY until he hits the floor.

They can FAINTLY HEAR the gunshots.  Holly pales:

All Powell can hear here is "LET IT SNOW, LET IT SNOW."  He

STOPS just a yard from seeing the armed terrorist, turns back.

He turns back.

Marco springs on top of the huge table.  McClane rolls on his

back so he can cover either angle but it is clear that Marco

is in the more enviable position.

on the table top slams in a fresh magazine and smiles.

He leans his machine gun over the edge.

aims directly above him and fires twice into the underside

of the table.  The bullets rip through the table and Marco,

who DROPS beside McClane.

Powell heads for the door.  Eddie moves to lock up after him.

Powell goes out.

McClane rolls out from under the table, goes to the windows,

and looks down in time to see Powell heading for the car.

Desperate, he leans on the glass...which CRACKS again, on the

verge of going.  McClane thinks...looks over his shoulder at

the body of Marco.

Powell check in on his radio.  Unconsciously he begins to

HUM the Muzak he overheard in the lobby.

Suddenly Marco's body CRASHES onto the hood of his car.

Suddenly a barrage of MACHINE GUN FIRE from Alexander on the

third floor drowns out his call!  Powell ducks and flattens

against the seat as bullets blow out the front window,

covering him in glass.

But Powell accelerates in reverse away from the building,

keeping his head low and praying he doesn't hit anything

as the bullets follow him, digging into asphalt.  A half block

away his car runs off the pavement and down a SLOPE, finally

BOUNCING to a jarring HALT in a parking lot which is destined

to become police H.Q. a few pages from now.  Powell sits up

and clutches the mike.

McClane looks down at Powell and grins.

WIDEN FROM A POLICE SCANNER.  We take in the action here,

all color coordination and slickness.  RICHARD THORNBURG,     *

local TV news reporter, is on the phone to his girlfriend.

He covers the mouthpiece, because he's become aware of what's

coming from the scanner.

He drops the phone, pick up another.  Shouts --

Now, hearing MACHINE GUN FIRE, Thornburg hangs up the second

phone.  Runs out of the room.  CAMERA PANS BACK TO the first

phone.

Sirens wail as the first few police cars arrive.  Powell sees

them, waves them back, points to the third floor.

He leans back and closes his eyes, luxuriating in the sound

of WAILING POLICE SIRENS.  He looks at Holly.

Hans, Karl, Fritz and Franco confer.

Suddenly Hans' CB crackles to life.

He's got a CB on the table and ON, and his cop's notebook is

out again.  He's already upgraded the NUMBER OF TERRORISTS?

to "12 (?) minus 3 = 9" and added other information.  As he

speaks he takes ammo clips the dead men dropped, their

sidearms, etc.

In the office, the terrorists REACT, startled, as McClane

name-drops.

Moving down the corridor.  Now armed with Marco's machine

gun and carrying Heinrich's kit bag, he seems more lethal.    *

He rolls Heinrich over and is delighted to find a pack of

Gauloise's in the man's pocket.  He takes them, pats the      *

dead man's face.

McClane STOPS in mid-speech.  He's just opened the kit bag

Heinrich had over his shoulder when he died.  Now McClane

takes out the contents...dozens and dozens of EXPLOSIVE

DETONATORS marked "DANGER" and a CHUNK of cello-wrapped

PLASTIQUE the size of an electric razor.  He WHISTLES in

surprise to himself.

In the office, Hans turns off his mike for a moment, turns

to Karl.                                                      *

He moves.   Hans goes back onto the CB.  Meanwhile, McClane   *

SMILES at the tell-tale STATIC as Hans goes off and on.  He

knows what's happening.  Now, he starts to walk down

a corridor, eyes PANNING FROM elevator to the stairwell

doors.

A LIGHT blinks on the elevator.

McClane goes quietly through the stairwell door and is gone

by the time the search party steps onto this floor.

Hans sits quietly...thinking.

Karl steps off the elevator and goes through the crowd of

hostages to Hans.

With Kristoff, he has DRILLED TWO HOLES in the safe and is

working on a third when he HEARS the CB.  He turns off the

drill, answers.

Theo moves to his computer screen which shows a schematic of

the safe and blinking icons and the words MECHANICALS #2

and #2 DISABLED.

Suddenly all REACT to a nearby CB transmitter which broadcasts.

Powell stands in front of his destroyed cruiser and looks

up at the building.  Behind him technicians, City Power and

Light personnel, SWAT officers in protective gear, etc., arrive

from all directions.  A trailer is being backed into a parking

lot, which will become the police center of operations.  It

is like watching a small town being constructed right before

your eyes.

Listening intently.

NOTE:  The following dialogue is said OVER McClane's.

The CAMERA TIGHTENS ON him

They leave.

We notice that everything McClane has said about "clothing"

and ID's and police jargon, etc., has set off a little buzzer

in Powell's brain.

A moment.  McClane smiles.  What the hell?

McClane turns off his CB and sits against the wall.

An unmarked police car pulls up across the street from

Nakatomi building and a MAN in a sportcoat climbs out.

Stocky, his hair a little too perfect, the very fact that

he is the Deputy Chief of Police Operations on a Christmas Eve

gives some evidence to his position in the pecking order.  His

name is DWAYNE T. ROBINSON and he moves brusquely past police

technicians and goes to the forward group of officers.

Powell turns around

Something draws Robinson's attention.  He looks at:

Pulling up and parking just beyond the barricades.

Richard Thornburg gets out, starts supervising the            *

positioning of cameras.

Hans examines building plans at Holly's desk.  Behind him

the TV is ON, the sound muted.  TV cops triumph over oafish

bad guys.

Hans looks up as Fritz brings in Holly.

Hans is impressed by her candor.  And she's easy enough

on the eyes.

He nods to one of his men, and she is waved to the door:

As she goes:

He nods, thoughtful.  She goes out.  Hans suddenly notices:

A slide "SPECIAL BULLETIN" has appeared.  This changes to a

SHOT of the Nakatomi building with "LIVE" supered over it.

Richard Thornburg is in front. The CAMERA TIGHTENS ON him.

As Thornburg Continues, we PULL BACK.  We're WITH Argyle in

the back seat of the limo.

The CAMERA PULLS BACK and we SEE the Nakatomi Building rise

up in the b.g. behind Thornburg.

Argyle is already bailing out of the car.

Argyle looks at the metal gates, swallows.  He JUMPS back

in the car.

Argyle pours himself a stiff drink.

Argyle nearly spills his drink as he leans over the front

seat and turns on the CB.

Signs of activity along the edges and shadows of the area.

Men and vehicles.  The SNAP of weapons and breeches.

Footsteps running in unison.  Powell picks up on this, turns

to Robinson, who is standing with the SWAT Captain, MITCHELL.

Inside the building, sadly realizing that the Marlboro pack

has only two more to go.  He savors the dregs of his current

number, then suddenly becomes aware of an almost EERIE QUIET.

He moves to the window.

Hints of activity in the darkness.  A LIGHT FLARES extinguished.

Shadows move on trailer walls.

Powell stiffens.  Robinson looks at him warningly, shakes his

head.

Hating himself, Powell DISCONNECTS, watches LIGHTS snaps on in

the parking lot to illuminate the area.

Also hating himself, McClane does the same thing.  Pale, he

moves to a window to watch what he knows is going to be brutal.

He hunches over his communicator.

slips away from the desk, a computer card in his hand.  He

meets up with another terrorist and they move behind a slit

in the wall.  Eddie waves his card at the sensor and a METAL

GRID crashes into place.  They hold their weapons behind it,

ready.

All now with earplugs in their CB's, taking up positions:

The SWAT team leader moves in SOP style to the door, scans it

carefully.

POLICE BARRICADES

Mitchell listens to CB radio.

Mitchell looks at Robinson, who is visible tense.  Robinson

hesitates, then gives his approval with a nod.

The SECURITY CAMERAS on the walls PAN and ZOOM:

Kristoff DRILLS AWAY, is rewarded with the message FIFTH LOCK

DEACTIVATED.  DO YOU WISH TO CONTINUE?  Nearby, Theo sits at

a bank of monitors.  Screen after screen pinpoints all the

police activity outside, down to the last detail.  Theo SMILES.

Suddenly we RECOGNIZE that tune he's been whistling.  It's

"Singin' In The Rain."

Eddie and another terrorist, ULI, take up prone firing

positions, using the gaps in the steel partition like gunpoints.

Mitchell and Robinson watch from behind the cover of a police

car as the SWAT officers remove a portable welding torch and

begin cutting their way through the locks.

He moves painfully to the window and looks out.  He can't see

a thing because of the lights.

Suddenly rifle fire sounds from the building.

More shots ring out from the building going over the SWAT

officers' heads and suddenly the huge dome of one of the

spotlights shatters behind Mitchell and Robinson's head.

The glow fades.  A moment later the next light twenty feet

away dies.

The two SWAT officers cutting the garage ate suddenly look up

as their cover starts to disappear.

Suddenly the third and fourth lights are shot out and the SWAT

men become sitting ducks.

He calmly speak into his CB.

Eddie and Uli fire.  They hit one of the officers in the leg,

the second one in the arm.

An armored car wheels toward the building and starts toward

the wounded men.

JAMES and Alexander quickly load two crates onto the service

elevator and push the button for the 3rd floor.  As the car

starts down, they remove an anti-tank gun from one of the

crates.

The service elevator arrives on the 3rd floor and James and

Alexander move across the room toward the windows with the

anti-tank weapon.  At the window, they prepare the weapon

for use.

Outside the window the armored car has stopped in front of the

wounded man and paramedics quickly load them in from the

sheltered side of the vehicle.  Alexander quickly sights on

the armored car.

A blast ROARS from the third floor window and the shell hits

the armored car.  The car pitches forward like a beast whose

front legs have been shot out from under it -- its front axle

destroyed, unable to move.  Alexander looks back at James and

grins.

He watches from his window.  Coldly picks up his CB.

listening.  He picks up his CB.

McClane slumps to the floor below the window.  He feels

helpless, then notices his kit bag.

James runs back to the crate on the elevator.

They look on in horror as the armored car sits helplessly on

fire.  On the police radio channel we HEAR the screams of men

inside.

James opens the box of shells and takes two and starts back

across the room.

EXPLOSIVE - SAME

Like a football.  It sits on the seat of a secretary's chair

with castors.  We PULL BACK TO SEE McClane press three

detonators into the top, then cover the explosive with a

typewriter, tying it securely in place with electrical cords.

wheels the chair to the service elevator, opens the door and

block them with a fire axe.  He looks in -- the top of the car

can just be seen thirty-five floors below.

James hands the shell to Alexander, who expertly loads it into

the anti-tank gun. Alexaneder lifts the  gun to his shoulder

and aims.

McClane push the chair into the shaft.

For a long moment there is nothing, then:  the shaft is filled

with light, then SOUND -- an ungodly ROAR -- and McClane is

thrown back across the elevator corridor against the other

back of doors by the concussion wave.

The explosion, like a firestorm, rips across the floor:

ALEXANDER

FLYING

The police take cover behind their cars.  Powell, Robinson,

and Mitchell look like they've seen the face of God as the

building rocks from the blast.  Henry's cigarette falls from

his mouth as a desk is sent hurtling across Avenue of the Stars

into the trees across the street.

watching it on TV, feeling it all around him.

Dick Thornburg's crew is taping.

Thornburg looks at his competitors still setting up.

The hostages are shaken and the terrorists guarding them

aren't too sure of themselves either.  Only Hans is relatively

calm.

She comforts Ginny.

He sits up and lifts the CB.

on the street, watching as the survivors are pulled out of the

wreck and to safety.

Before Powell can answer Robinson comes running up to him.

McClane leans tiredly against the elevator door.

McClane is so furious, he's out of breath.

Argyle nods in agreement.

still seething.  There is a long pause on the CB, then:

Other officers, including Robinson, monitor the conversation.

As it SNAPS ON.  We're in the studio set.

A SLIDE of Hans appears behind her.  At the same time, the CAMERA

PULLS BACK.  We realize we're on THE HOSTAGE FLOOR, and Hans

has just turned on the set out here for his "guests".  He smiles

modestly as they "recognize" him from the on air shot, returns

to the office.

As the bullshit continues, Ellis suddenly STANDS, head towards

the terrorist "office".  Immediately the chief guard here,

Fritz, moves to intercept Ellis.

He doesn't wait for an answer.  Fritz follows him.  Holly

worries.

ALL TURN at a rap on the door.  Ellis is there.

As Fritz shrugs:

Karl looks at Ellis and then at Hans, as if to say, let me plug

this asshole right now.  But Hans is either amused of curious

or bored enough to shake his head, turn back to Ellis.

As Hans reacts with real interest for the first time, we:

By the CB.  He suddenly REACTS to a GROAN from McClane.

He's by an open desk drawer, having just ripped open a package

of twinkies he's found.  He grimaces, mouth full.

McClane swallows Twinkie with a grimace, takes out his wallet,

flips it open to a picture of himself and Holly and the kids

in happier days.

McClane laughs, stares at the photo, when suddenly another VOICE

besides Powell's comes over his radio.

McClane FREEZES.  How much do they know?

Reacts, gleeful, writes down the name.

reacts, signals an Aide, who's already writing, too.

McClane's face falls.  Oh, God.  Eyes closed, he waits for the

voice that tells him it's all over.

McClane's eyes open, showing equal parts of shock and hope.

In the office, CAMERA ADJUSTS TO SHOW Ellis as Hans gives him

the CB.

Ellis has a cigarette, and a terrorist brings him a Diet coke.

McClane sighs, partially relieved.  Hans meanwhile, narrows his

eyes.

He looks at Hans, who gives him a nod.

Ellis gives Hans a big "ok" sign.  Hans returns it.

and others listening intently.  McClane closes his eyes and

leans his head back again.  He knows what is going to happen,

even if this poor bastard Ellis doesn't.

Saying this, Hans takes out his gun, points it at Ellis, smiling.

Ellis smiles, too.

Ellis looks at Hans and shrugs, "Well, I tried..." Hans nods

understandingly.  He takes the CB, presses the TALK button, and

in one frighteningly smooth motion brings the Walther up to

Ellis' forehead and PULLS THE TRIGGER.

He was expecting the SHOT but it still chills him.

She lowers her head sadly.  Around her, the others go CRAZY as

they SEE Ellis' blood splattered on the glass walls on Hans'

office.

He throws open the door to let McClane and the police hear the

screams of the hostages.

He DISCONNECTS.

Powell fends off Robinson, who wants the CB.

They lock eyes.

It's asses and elbows time.  Tape recorders are started.

Listening to this with expressions ranging from astonishment

to dismay to outright derisive amusement.

Theo and Kristoff have been rewarded with another LOCK

DEACTIVATED.

The graphic on his screen flashes:  "WARNING:  ELECTRO-       *

MAGNETIC SEAL ARMED."                                         *

As he talks, he essentially PATROLS the floor he's staked

out, constantly looking into every dark corner, gun held

ready, moving toward the stairwell.

Gail and Harvey have company, a man from the Senator

Paul Simon's school of grooming.

Sam sighs, shakes his head.

Fritz drags Ellis' body out of the office and throws it on the

floor.

Hans turns, looks up at the ceiling.  Too dim up there to see

from here.  He sighs, sets his gun down on a buttress, starts

to climb up, not enjoying it.

Robinson looks at a YOUNG COP, reacts, startled:

Robinson looks at Powell, adjusts his clothing, fixes his tie.

Robinson glares at him, then they move together towards:

Headlights still on, dominating the area where it sits.  Robinson

steps up, sees:

They get out.  One big back lit SILHOUETTE, one little one.

As Robinson REACTS, we GO TO:

He checks the plastique, not pleased.  He turns, DROPS to the

floor.

He lands, knees bent...looks directly at a PAIR OF BARE FEET.

A GUN BARREL DROPS INTO THE SHOT close to his head.

A moment.  And then Hans turns, looks up.

The transformation in his expression and bearing are mind-

boggling.  Hands shaking, eyes filled with fear, he swallows,

looks up at McClane and in a perfect American accent says:

Hans' eyes dart towards:

Where a tiny piece of his gun sticks out, barely visible.

He starts in that direction.

Hans realizes this tack won't work.  He follows McClane.

It works.  The poor frightened civilian shows a hint of a smile.

Big Johnson nods in agreement, turns to Robinson.

He starts to move away with his partner.

Johnson and Johnson turn.  Robinson wants Powell to shut up.

They start to walk away.

They leave.

McClane and Hans walk together.  Hans is still a "nervous wreck."

McClane looks at this poor civilian, on the edge of going to

pieces.  He puts his hand on his shoulder.

Hans nods, still "frightened".  McClane takes out his spoils

of war, the Marlboros.  Two left.  He sighs, takes one, offers

the other one with an expression like a little boy forced to

share a cookie.  McClane takes out a lighter, does his and

Hans'.  Hans nods, grateful...then peers at McClane.

Hans' eyes take in his bare feet.

McClane nods, friendly like, and his eyes glance casually over

at:

In alphabetical order.  CAMERA MOVES OVER the "c's":  CAMPBELL,

S.: CLAY, WM.: CRAWFORD, L...PANS BACK TO CLAY.

McClane takes out his Baretta, pops out the magazine, jams in

a fresh one and hands it to him.

McClane turns, moves on...we STAY ON him until he REACTS to a

CLICK.  He slowly turns:

Hans is...well, Hans again, from expression to posture.  He

holds the pistol aimed at McClane's face and talks calmly into

his radio in German.

McClane just looks at him.

McClane raises his machine gun, aims at Hans.  Hans PULLS THE

TRIGGER.

Click.  Astonishment.  Click-click-click.  McClane steps in

carefully, reclaims his pistol.

Hans pales as we hear the ding of an approaching elevator.

McClane whirls in time to see:

Coming out of it, FIRING.

McClane FIRES back, killing Fritz.  Karl and Franco take

cover.  McClane ducks into a water cooler alcove, looks back

at:

He's gone, a SWINGING OFFICE DOOR the only evidence of his

passing.

McClane curses himself, then RETREATS into a:

Where he DUCKS and DODGES as bullets ping and ricochet all

around him.  Ducking, rolling, he FIRES at:

McClane's bullets RAKE his middle, throw him over a desk, his

weapon FLYING:

He SLIDES right into a glass door.  It smashes around his head.

Bright arterial BLOOD fountains up:

hope rising at the prospect of an equal battle, his face

suddenly FALLS as BULLETS fly in from an unexpected direction.

He turns:

has reappeared and snatched up Franco's weapon.

FIRES, moving, trying to keep from bring flanked.  One of his

shots SHATTERS a glass panel, raining down shards near Hans,

who escapes with only superficial scratches.

looks at the glass around him, gets an idea.  He SHOUTS to

Karl in German:

And, saying this, he demonstrates.  Karl follows suit.

as GLASS FLIES EVERYWHERE, McClane sees one option, takes it.

BLASTING a burst to keep their heads down, he WHIRLS, JUMPS

on top of a long counter and RUNS ACROSS THE ROOM.  Their

BULLETS follow him, six inches behind his moving form!  Big

CRAY UNITS GROAN with electronic SQUEALS and SPARKS as a

million Gigabytes goes to RAM heaven.  McClane reaches the end

of the counter, DIVES and rolls to the floor:

goes right down on a jagged SHARD.  He GROANS, keeps going:

He's out, gone, safe!

Karl looks pissed as hell.  Behind him, Hans sifts through

rubble, then comes over, smiling.

He's holding the bag of detonators.

Mary comes inside, grinning ear to ear.  Thornburg looks up from

his danish, a cute little chin napkin protecting his shirt

collar.

As Thornburg GRINS we GO TO:

Eddie and Uli are guarding the hostages.  Hans and Karl return.

Hans tosses the bag of detonators to Uli, who grins, leaves.

Holly has watched all this nervously.  But Ginny's eyes follow

Karl, who doesn't share the mood of the others.

The door JARS open.  McClane all but crawls inside.  As he

passes the CAMERA we SEE his dragging foot leaving a trail

of blood on the linoleum.

Theo and Kristoff REACT, delighted, as they get the message

SIXTH LOCK DEACTIVATED.  Suddenly a BUZZER SOUNDS and the

graphic flashes:  "ELECTROMAGNETIC SEAL ENGAGED.  CANNOT

BE DISARMED AT THIS LOCATION.  TERMINATE SEQUENCE (Y/N)?"

Wincing in pain, McClane washes his foot in a sink basin.  He

washes a deep cut, soaps it, but the pain doesn't relent.

When a VOICE speaks, he JUMPS, realizes it's the CB.

McClane tries to wrap paper towels on the foot but his grimace

shows that is still hurts like hell.

Suddenly remembering an NYPD course in first aid from ten years

ago, McClane removes the improvised bandage, check the cut

more carefully.

Powell doesn't answer right away.  At the same time, McClane

swallows, seeing a gleam inside his foot.  He gingerly probes,

and pulls out a shard of glass almost three inches long from its

angled gash, his mouth twisted in a silent scream all the way.

McClane throws the glass across the room, forehead bathed in

sweat.

Realizing what he's hearing for the first time, McClane's face

shifts to a new kind of pain.

And as McClane REACTS we GO TO:

Hans and Theo lean over a monitor watching a DWP truck near

the parking garage.

ON Theo's look:

As we saw on Theo's screen, the Johnsons and Robinson and

Powell are my a MANHOLE with a CITY ENGINEER.  A big CONTROL

BOX is there, cables snaking into the ground where another

CITY WORKER finishes WELDING a last connection.

The engineer THROWS GIANT LEVERS.  Inside the manhole, SPARKS

SIZZLE and massive contacts CLUNK.

One by one, all the light on all the floors GO OUT.

in the bathroom, ripping off his shirt and tying it around his

foot, he REACTS --

McClane reacts, worried; he knows better.

groan with this new problem:

Theo and Kristoff and Hans huddle over the computer monitor

screen as if it was a warm fireplace.  Theo points to the

computer screen; all they can do is wait.

We HEAR the HUMM of a portable generator.  The lights go OFF.

The computer screen stays ON.  Theo looks over at the safe.

It still reads "FIBER OPTIC TIME LOCK CANNOT BE DISARMED AT

THIS LOCATION.  TERMINATE SEQUENCE (Y/N)?"

Just as the Johnsons are looking SMUG...all the floors GO

BACK ON, one by one!

The engineer looks at Robinson.  No help.  The engineer looks

at his guy in the manhole, shrugs.  No choice.

Pause...pause...AND THEN THE FLOORS OF THE BUILDING ALL GO

OUT AGAIN.

EMERGENCY LIGHTING FLICKS ON.   An ALARM "beep-beep-beeps."

changes to "FIBER OPTIC TIME LOCK DEACTIVATED AT SOURCE.

SEVENTH LOCK DISENGAGED."

With a dramatic HUM worthy of 2001, the vault door OPENS!

The FBI guys look at the dark building, than at the LAPD guys.

The safe door finishes its ponderous move, CLUNKS to a halt.

Theo and Kristoff LAUGH, give each other high fives.  Even Hans

loses his usual cool, slaps Theo on the back as Theo and

Kristoff CHEER.

drives along a residential street.  We SEE the Nakatomi tower

in the b.g., spotlit by the police beams.  Thornburg checks a

map, POINTS a turn out to the driver.

Powell looks up at the dark structure lit only by emergency

lighting.  He sidles over to the FBI men.

Hans talks while Theo and Kristoff tackle the problem of

unloading the racks and racks of bonds and transferring them

to the black cases.

He disconnects, smiles at Theo.

The Johnsons exit.  Powell and Robinson look at each other,

unhappy.  Powell's CB HISSES --

Powell moves off to be alone.

McClane tries walking on his foot.  He winces in pain, clearly

at the end of his resources.

He moves towards the door, limping hurriedly out of the room.

Thornburg's got one foot literally in the doorway, but since

Paulina still has the chain on, it's not quite enough.

As she wavers...

McClane hobbles in here, favoring his foot.  He retraces his

steps earlier, mentally replaying his meeting with Hans.

His eyes flick over the area...then he looks up.  Seeing

something, he moves closer.  He sets down his CB and then, with

difficulty, he climbs up on a thick pipe, flicks his lighter

and hold its high.

Explosives are everywhere.

He reacts, quickly extinguishing the lighter.  He follows the

detonator lines with his eyes.

He drops to the floor, winces in pain, picks up his CB.

Suddenly a GUN BARREL is pressed against his head.  He stiffens.

Karl takes his Baretta, tosses it away.  Then Karl takes the

CB.  Smiling, Karl SMASHES the transmitter underfoot.

Powell is beside one of the radio monitoring officers.

Showing two HELICOPTERS in the distance heading this way.

Karl hovers over McClane, who hasn't moved a muscle.

WHAM!  McClane DRIVES his elbow into Karl's face.

Karl's weapon clatters on the floor.  McClane follows his first

blow with another.  Karl recovers, and with a spinning karate

kick SLAMS McClane back.

Eddie turns from a window, where the chopper lights loom closer.

CAMERA PANS across the room to the doorway of the office, where

Hans nods, stands.

She's speechless, watching in shock as:

shows Thornburg at Holly's house!  He's squatting down with his

microphone to interview the children in their P.J.s.  His voice

is soft, comforting.

John Jr. says nothing, but Lucy looks at the camera.

She struggles to stay composed...can't.  She slowly turns her

head, looks at Hans.

He's looking away from us, at the picture of the children on

her desk.  He turns back and looks at her.  He smiles.

He raises his weapon...but he only shoot it into the ceiling,

making everyone jump!

Uli nods and he and Eddie help herd everyone towards the stairs.

Hans moves forward...grabs Holly himself.

McClane and Karl move towards each other, each sizing the other

up, each looking over the terrain.

This time Karl doesn't take the bait.  Then, when he

does charge, it's unexpected.

The two men fight brutally, Karl bringing years of martial

training to this moment, McClane bringing nothing but the street.

Karl steps in quickly with a deadly move.  McClane twists free,

slams an elbow into Karl's kidney.  Karl backs off, circles

McClane with new respect.

THROUGH THE CANOPY we SEE another flanking chopper.  Johnson

and Johnson are here, helmets and mikes on.  Big Johnson checks

aerial maps while Little Johnson checks ammo clips for his

sniper scoped assault rifle.

Theo and Kristoff load the bonds into the big cases which carried

all their gear when they entered.  As Hans and Eddie come in they

look curiously at Holly.

He picks up a CB, speaks into it.

TILT UP from the CB radio Karl smashed.

Karl and McClane are in the b.g., almost toe to toe, all their

tricks played out, going at it with animal instinct.

Nothing.  He looks at Theo.

Uli herds the hostages up onto the roof, pushing the last few

out.

They float toward us, hugging the street, their prop wash

shaking the trees.

Following them with their eyes, for once sharing the same opinion.

They see their very own Christmas decorations, the friendly

copter lights, and begin to smile and cheer.  Uli smiles to

himself, moves towards the door:

Theo closes the lid of a bond-stuffed case, carries it out of

the room.  Holly's eyes follow his exit while the others continue.

He SLAPS her.

Karl drives McClane back with a sweeping head kick.  Another one.

McClane is staggering.  He gets in one hard punch and then Karl

charges at him.  McClane falls backwards, drives his legs

upwards, propelling Karl into the air:

Karl goes into a loop of chain hanging over a turbine, becomes

entangled.

jumps to his feet, yanks the other end of the chain.

is JERKED upwards by the neck.  He TWITCHES like a captured

fish -- starts to turn blue:

Twists the chain end around a pipe as Karl STILLS.  McClane

snatches up his Baretta from the floor, runs out.

We can SEE the tailing 'chopper through the open port of this

one.  Big Johnson leans over, slaps the shoulder of his pilot.

The door rattles.  His back to the CAMERA, Uli goes to the door,

OPENS it -- and TWO BULLETS COME OUT HIS BACK.  Smoking Baretta

in hand, McClane vaults over the body before it has even stopped

twitching.  As the hostages SQUEAL and SCREAM, McClane snatches

up Uli's machine gun, runs out onto the roof.  He charges

through the crowd, spots Ginny near the edge of the roof.  She

meets him halfway.

He looks off to the choppers.  Closer yet.  He turns, SHOUTS.

And he FIRES over their heads!  They SCREAM, head for the door

as he hoped!  He FIRES again, raking a line across the roof.

They really haul ass.

A YOUNG FBI AGENT is here with a rifle and a partner.

The pilot nods.

Something catches his eye.  He turns, looks at:

Through the glass here he can catch a glimpse of the hostages

coming back into the room!

McClane herds the last of the hostages inside, starts for the

door himself, when with a ROAR and a CHATTER of rotors, the

lead chopper zooms overhead!  McClane throws himself down on the

ground, looks up as the chopper banks in a tight turn and then

from the open side GUNFIRE erupts!  Shocked, McClane DIVES out

of the way of the bullets that stitch across the door.

descending, SCREAMING and HOWLING as a chopper SWEEPS past a

window on a loop back towards the roof.

Both Johnsons FIRE AWAY

Hans whirls towards Kristoff.

CAMERA ADJUSTS to show the remote detonator on a table.  Hans

goes to it.

McClane DIVES away from another burst.

They come in on another pass.  Desperate, he looks around, see

a fire hose.  Makes up his mind.  With the chopper LOOMING UP

behind him, he slings Uli's weapon, runs to the fire hose,

unreels three yards, loops it around his back and under his legs.

He looks over the edge, hesitates:

Bullets HIT all around him.  He JUMPS:

Hans extends the antenna...HITS the button.

The helipad EXPLODES!  A FIREBALL rolls into the sky.

lose their footing on the floor.  Dust and debris fall down,

but they're okay.

STRAINS to avoid the rising fireball...can't!  It's CAUGHT in

the explosion!  It tips over, a rotor hits the roof -- it

CRASHES, EXPLODES, tumbles down the side of the building!

Dangling against the side of the building, he DUCKS and winces

as FLAMING DEBRIS soar past him.

Flame ROARS TOWARDS it, engulfs it.  It JERKS on its foundation

PIVOTS 180 degrees as several bolts slip:

DROPS several more feet.  He swallows, then KICKS against the

side of the building, his bloody feet leaving smears.  The

shatterproof glass doesn't budge!  Wincing as more FLAMING DEBRIS

sizzles by, McClane levels the machine gun, KICKS off from the

building, SWINGS back ten feet -- reaches the zenith of his

arc -- FIRES the gun and sails back in:

McClane SMASHES through the shattered glass, SAILS inside, rolls

onto the floor, PLOWING through furniture and decor.  Finally

he STOPS, catches his breath with relief...rises to one knee:

The fire hose mounting is BLASTED off the roof, SAILS past the

CAMERA:

The hose mechanism tumbles downward!

McClane is YANKED off his feet, dragged towards the window!

It SLIDES down the side of the building!  The hose PLAYS OUT

on the edge of the windowsill, dragging McClane towards his death!

CLAWS at the floor...no help.  Inches from the shattered window,

he braces his legs against the sill, groans as he fights the

weight of the hose and the reel.  One foot SLIPS.  Only his

already wounded foot keeps him indoors.

He scrambles to untie his improvised rappeling rig -- gets free

just before the hose nozzle CRASHES out and into the great beyond!

Winded, strength ebbing, he staggers to his feet -- just in time

for:

to RECOIL from another staggering explosion!

They scream, cry out:

As Holly covers her head from falling plaster, the men work

like automatons, piling up the bonds.

recovers from another AFTERSHOCK, runs up the steps -- is

momentarily amazed to HEAR a "ding" from the elevator -- he looks

at:

where suddenly the WALL EXPLODES OUTWARD as an ENTIRE ELEVATOR

CRASHES THROUGH THE WALL, swinging on its cable like a

demolition ball on a crane!

McClane runs up the steps as brickwork flies past his head like

schrapnel:

reaches the apex of its swing, drops down in an arcing turn:

the elevator CRASHES into the stairs!  The section McClane in

on SNAPS LOOSE!  At the last minute McClane LEAPS towards:

and catches it as stairs and elevator CRUMBLE behind and beneath

him!  With his last effort, he hauls himself onto the balcony

and them moves off!

The police are scrambling for cover.  Powell and Robinson are

open-mouthed.

Argyle is huddled down on the floor of the back seat, the stuffed

animal held over his head as much for company as protection.

As the building ceases to ROCK Argyle sneaks a peek out from

under the fur...and sees:

at the delivery truck.  He steps into a white paramedic's

jumpsuit and zips it up.  He hops into the cab and pulls the

truck away from the loading dock.

He creeps forward, looks carefully into:

They're getting ready to leave with the bearer bonds.  Suddenly

the CAMERA FOCUS CHANGES TO HOLLY.

McClane's face shows his anguish.  He checks the weapon he took

from Uli.  One bullet!

He checks his Baretta.  One bullet.  He thinks, desperate.

Decides.  He takes the bullet from the rifle clip, adds it to

the Baretta clip.  He slams the pistol clip back, really worried.

Mind racing, he looks all around the room...his eyes fall on a

tape dispenser.  He thinks again...steps towards it:

Theo has pulled two ramps out from the truck and slips into

the back.  A car engine fires up inside the delivery truck.

Realization dawning, he vaults into the front seat.

A paramedic van shoots out of the back of the Pacific Courier

delivery truck.  Flooring the limo, Argyle CRASHES into

the van, which CAREENS into the wall.

Theo staggers out in time for Argyle to deck him with one punch.

The last of the money is piled on.  Hans hangs onto Holly while

Eddie pushes the mail carts of moneybags.  Kristoff goes to the

door to scope their escape...suddenly he is COLD COCKED by a

rifle butt.

McClane steps into view in the doorway, backlit by sparks still

tumbling down from the roof above.  He holds the machine gun

ready.

Hans turns, not that surprised.  Grinning, he yanks Holly into

view.  No words need be said.

McClane hesitates...Hans pushes the gun against Holly again,

really hurting her.  Eddie quickly raises his weapon.

He aims:

Instantly, Holly sidesteps, JABS her elbow into Hans' face!

At the same moment Holly moves, McClane grabs his Baretta

from its hiding place TAPED TO THE BACK OF HIS NECK, SHOOTS

Hans high in the chest!

The bullet passes right THROUGH Hans, and the WINDOW behind

him SPLATTERS with blood and SHATTERS.  Even while this is

happening, McClane SPINS:

Eddie takes a gunshot, DROPS just like on Gunsmoke.

Hans drops his weapon, staggers, looks down at his own blood

in shock.

Incredibly, Hans still stands, eyes filled with shock and

disbelief.  He REELS, falls against the windowsill, starts to

TOPPLE -- and then he GRITS his teeth and from some inward

place finds a last reserve of strength and he GRABS:

and she is YANKED off her feet!

Hans goes out the window, pulling Holly with him!  McClane

LEAPS forward, catches her inside arm near the elbow at the

last minute!

The roof still in flames, McClane hangs halfway out of the

window, jagged glass raking his face, straining to hold onto

Holly as Hans drags her out!

McClane braces himself against the window frame and strains to

pull Holly closer.  With a MOAN, she catches the windowsill with

her inside hand.  McClane STRETCHES with his other hand, begins

to INCH towards Holly's wristband.

A death grip on the watchband.  We WIDEN, SEE that, blood

flecked teeth GRITTING, he is STRAINING with his other hand

to bring up the gun he is still holding!

Holly's SCREAM alerts him.  Hans locks eyes with McClane one

last time, starts to pull the trigger, as:

McClane RELEASES the latch on the watchband!  The overtaxed

metal SNAPS, links flying:

Hans' face registers his horror as he and most of the watch

suddenly drop.

We LISTEN to his scream all the way down, finally HEAR him HIT.

McClane pulls Holly back into the room and holds her.

He looks down at Hans' body, then back at the scrap of wristband

he's still holding.

She laughs through her tears, holds onto him.

Smoke drifts up from what has suddenly become the top floor.

Thornburg's remote truck careens into the parking lot.

A crowd watches as the front doors of the building open.  We

SEE McClane, who holds up Holly and in turn is supported by

SWAT men.  As REPORTERS start shouting questions, McClane

breaks free of his entourage, and, holding Holly, pushes into

the crowd.

The crowd eddys and surges...suddenly Powell is there, and

McClane knows it's him.  They stare at each other, ten feet

apart, and then they're grinning, extending their hands.  But

somehow a shake isn't enough, and they're embracing each other

like men who've lived through combat together...which, in fact,

is the truth.

Hearing this, McClane grins, pulls her close.                 *

McClane begins to make silent "ixney" gestures in Powell's

direction.

Just then Robinson barges forward.

A SCREAM causes McClane to turn.

There in the doorway is Karl, clothing and body scorched.

Easily as crusted in dirt and blood as McClane, he holds his

machine gun.

As the crowd panics trying to escape, Karl locks eyes with

McClane and levels his gun.  McClane throws Holly to the

ground and grabs the dumbstruck Robinson's sidearm.

But he doesn't get off a shot -- a lone gunshot stops Karl --

knocking him back through the doorway.  McClane looks back to

see Powell still sighting down the barrel of his .38.

His hand is rock steady.  He sees McClane's look.

They smile.  Suddenly McClane and Holly squint as LIGHTS pan

onto them.  Thornburg pushes his way forward, mike extended

like a weapon.

Without a beat, Holly PUNCHES HIM in the chops.  He FALLS,

dropping the mike with an electronic SQUEAL.  McClane looks at

his wife, amazed.  Behind them, Thornburg sits on the ground, *

nurses his lip, turns to his camerman.

McClane and Holly continue on, turn towards:                  *

It's a little smashed up, but still running.  Argyle is

standing beside the open door.  McClane and Holly get in and

Argyle closes the door.

CAMERA ADJUSTS TO SHOW the read window where McClane and

Holly are kissing.  As they drive off, we:

