A DRY WHITE SEASON

"IN THE WHOLE WORLD

THERE IS NOT A SINGLE

POOR DEVIL WHO IS LYNCHED,

NOT ONE MISERABLE MAN

WHO IS TORTURED IN WHOM

I TOO, I AM NOT MURDERED

AND DEGRADED."

PRE-TITLE:

FADE IN:

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SECONDARY SCHOOL FOR BOYS - DAY

Dan Pienaar school is a typical Johannesburg Afrikaan

school. The students are mainly from middle-class

families. School athletics are in progress. The stu-

dents, in their smart school uniforms, are cheering

enthusiastically a relay race on the immaculately-kept

sports ground.

GORDON NGUBENE, a 47-years-old African laborer is work-

ing in the school garden. A few feet away is his 15-

years-old son JONATHAN leaning against a wall watching

the games.

BEN DU TOIT, a 50-year-old Afrikaaner history teacher, is

enthusiastically cheering his son JOHAN, a 15-years-old,

who is leading neck-and-neck with another boy in the last

leg of the race. The excitement increases as they

approach the tape. Ben is beside himself, egging his son

with shouts. The young teacher, VIVIERS, standing next

to Ben, is shouting "come on Johan," and slapping the

father on the back.

Johan breasts the tape just ahead of the other boy. The

ground is invaded by boys running to congratulate Johan.

Ben hurries towards his happy but exhausted son; the proud

father pushing his way through the animated boys. As he

reaches Johan he pats him on the back.

They walk happily towards the school buildings in conver-

sation, Johan being slapped on the back by friends. Ben

stops to talk to Gordon who jumps to his feet.

CONTINUED:

Ben hadn't seen Jonathan.    He turns to him.

Gordon returns to his work a little distance further. A

group of students are laughing and pushing each other

boisterously. As they near Jonathan, two nudge each

other and giggle. Then, one of them trips Jonathan. He

falls to the ground and jumps up aggressively, about to

attack the boy. Gordon shouts "Jonathan."

The headmaster, MRS. CLOETE, aged 65 years, has observed

the incident, but takes no action.

Jonathan stands panting with rage.       He suddenly strides

away towards the gate in a rage.

Jonathan turns to look at his father and continues to

walk off.

TITLES.

EXT. SOWETO BEER HALL - AFTERNOON

The beer hall is a large complex with a drinking area

with long rows of low benches.

CONTINUED:

Men sit drinking African beer in one-half and one gallon

plastics containers. The place buzzes with noise.

Several people are touting wares for sale.

Suddenly a group of about twenty youths walks into the

drinking area, obviously to cause trouble. The LEADER

starts to address the clients.

A large MAN WITH SIDEBURNS, obviously drunk, stands up, a

stick in his hand.

The man and several others advance on the boys. The boys

run into the serving area, close the doors and start

breaking up the place. Two police Land Rovers SCREECH to

a halt outside. The boys run out through a side en-

trance. They are chased by the police who are black.

Jonathan and his best friend Wellington, also 15 years,

are walking towards the beer hall when the boys come

running out chased by the police. It is prudent for

them to run down the street. The boys and police are

bearing down on them. Their escape is cut off by the

apperance of another police Land Rover. Two policemen,

two blacks and two whites join in the capture. Jonathan,

Wellington and about ten of the boys are arrested.

As they are hundled into the vehicle, they protest their

innocence without success and are driven away.

INT. SOWETO POLICE STATION - CHARGE OFFICE - AFTERNOON

The charge office is sparcely furnished with a long bench

along a wall. There is a reception counter with Sgt:

Van Zyl in charge. The boys are lined up against a wall.

The sergeant stands with a tall blond man with a scar on

his chin, CAPTAIN STOLZ.

CONTINUED:

The sergeant reads out a name and    looks at Stolz; if he

nods the boy stands aside. After     this ritual, the ones

that Stolz has chosen are marched    to a waiting police van

and driven away. The others are     taken to the cells at

the police station, these include    Jonathan and

Wellington.

EXT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - DAY

The MUSIC STOPS. The doors open. The 40 years-old-

minister Bester comes to the door, then stands and greets

his parishioners as they file out of the church.

Amongst them, Ben Du Toit -- his wife, SUSAN, a clean-

cut, immaculate, "toe-the-line" beauty and his son, Johan

-- the blond, blue-eyed, tanned and torsoed fourteen-

year-old every father dreams of. Susan greets friends

and acquaintances, pausing to chat... mostly formalities.

Johan, his eyes on a girl his age. She is with her

father, Mr. Cloete, the headmaster -- she smiles at Johan

from a distance; he waves awkwardly as she drives off

with her parents.

SUZETTE his daughter, sophisticated -- groomed. She

takes her baby from the black nanny waiting in the car,

carries the child to the group chatting with CHRIS, her

husband. She shows it off proudly. Ben is chatting,

concerned, to a WOMAN. She looks drawn and worried.

Mrs. Coetzee smiles her gratitude.

She's waving impatiently at him.     He crosses back to her.

Suzette's BABY is HOWLING.

CONTINUED:

She rocks it back and forth, holding it at arm's length.

The BABY SCREAMS. The nanny comes forward -- Suzette

hands it over.

She smiles and walks him to the car affectionately.

EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - BARBECUE - DAY

The Du Toit family.

Susan is bringing out the salads. Chris, her son-in-law,

is at the barbecue, stinging his eyes. Ben is bouncing

his grandson, little Hennie, in a small, portable pool.

The black nanny sits in attendance in the shade, a towel

at the ready. The good life...

... Suddenly disturbed by... Gordon and Jonathan standing

uncertain at the far side of the garden; Gordon's hat

pressed flat against his chest, Jonathan defiant.

Susan looks up -- as do each in turn -- curious at the

intrusion... then the black nanny -- and finally Ben.

After a moment, Ben walks up to Gordon.

INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - DAY

Six cuts, like six knife gashes, revealed on the blood-

stained buttocks of Gordon's son, who stands in painful,

truculent embarrassment.

Ben is shocked by the severity of the canning.

CONTINUED:

Outside, peering     through the half-opened door, is Johan,

shocked at what     he sees. Ben tapes Jonathan on the head,

he pulls up his     shorts painfully, yet fiercely, anxious

to cover himself     up again.

Susan appears at the door.

She nods, ushering Johan away from the door back outside.

CONTINUED:

Ben calls Johan from the outside.

Johan rushes in the house.

Johan comes back with a small bottle of medicine.

EXT. BEN'S GATE - DAY

Ben watches   the black man and his son trudge down the

long drive,   the father's arm on the son's shouldre. At

the foot of   the drive the nose of an exotic Soweto cab

can be seen   waiting... a large butterfly painted on the

hood.

EXT. BEN'S GARDEN - DAY

Ben takes his place at the table.     Susan brings a piece

of boerwors and a mug of beer.

She places the boerwors and the beer before him.

CONTINUED:

EXT. SOWETO SCHOOL - SOWETO UPRISING - MORNING

School grounds of the Orlando Secondary School. Students

are milling around in high spirits. One group is putting

finishing touches to a banner reading: "no to aparhteid

education."

There are two other banners being carried around the

school yard, followed by the younger children. They

read:

A BOY, one of the eldest, aged about 18 years calls for

silence. The STUDENTS immediately obey.

The crowd shouts:

The Students start marching led by one of the banners,

singing a freedom song.

Amongst them is Jonathan and Wellington. They are sing-

ing. The march turns round one of the streets.

CROSSROAD

Several groups of students marchers converge to join the

march that has already started, including Jonathan's

group. There are several banners condeming Bantu

education, apartheid, etc.

CONTINUED:

Examples:    "EQUAL EDUCATION NOW"

There are chants of slogans as they march:

They also start singing a freedom song.

FURTHER UP STREET

Three police Jeeps block the route of the march. A

little distance behind are police troops carriers

('hippos'). About six police-dog-handlers in camouflage

uniforms stand across the road waiting for the march to

approach.

As the march gets closer the students' singing increases

in volume.

The Soweto   police COMMANDANT steps forward with a loud-

speaker in   hand.  He confronts the lead of the march. He

signals for   them to stop. The dogs are straining at their

leashes and   their handlers taunt the leading group.

The Students start singing the African national anthem

'Nkosi Sikelele.'

Children of 8, 9, 10 years singing lustily with their

fists clenched as everyone else.

Jonathan and Wellington singing.

Camouflauged police scrambling out of Jeeps with guns and

tear gas grenades. They stand with the rifles pointing

at the marchers. The singing continues.

The Commandant confers with a junior officer who hurries

to the group of policemen and gives them instructions.

The ones carrying tear gas move towards front. The

police start donning gas masks.

CONTINUED:

A voice in the crowd shouts "Banutu education..."

The crowd shouts back "Stinks, Stinks, Stinks."

The Commandant gives a hand signal.

Tear gas canisters are thrown into the crowd, the dog-

handlers attack. There is panic with Students running in

all directions, several choking.

Some of the students start throwing stones at the police,

hitting one in the face; he is helped away by a black

policeman.

Without warning, SHOOTING STARTS.

Children drop, wounded; friends trying to help the dying

and seriously wounded, others helped away.

Some boys appear with dustbin lids as protection and they

pelt the police with stones.

The police in the 'hippos' are jumping off and pursuing

Students, some SHOOTING.

Woman grabs two of the running children age about 9/10

and hustles them into house.

Jonathan and Wellington are running with      a group.  In the

distance the sound of an AMBULANCE SIREN.       A Jeep cuts

off their escape, they turn back running      as SHOTS are

FIRED towards them, a little girl drops,      shot in the

back. Jonathan shouts to Wellington who       is ahead of him.

Wellington looks back, sees Jonathan trying to help the

little girl. He runs back to help. Another girl, aged

about 17 years, is also trying to help.

Two policemen suddenly appear from behind a house, they

are about 18 years old.

The girl straightens up and confronts the two policemen

shouting hysterically.

CONTINUED:

She slumps to the ground crying.

Jonathan, Wellington and the Girl are hustled into a

crowded van amid punches and kicks from the police. The

van drives off leaving the injured Girl on the road,

neighbors run to assist the Girl.

As the van is passing, see a burning car, in the distance

a building on fire; another AMBULANCE SIREN.

MONTAGE

A) EXT. AFRIKAANER SCHOOL

B) The screams, the laughter of white kids playing at

C) Behind, aboard a mower, motors Gordon, in the blue

D) EXT. SOWETO - AFTERNOON

END MONTAGE.

EXT. JOHANNESBURG SUBURB - LATE AFTERNOON

Soweto train rushing through suburb of Johannesburg.

REVERSE SHOT FROM train.

INT. SOWETO TRAIN CARRIAGE - LATE AFTERNOON

The third-class carriage is crowded with African

commuters returning to Soweto. The passengers represent

all the social and economic strata of Soweto: laborers,

factory workers, domestic servants, clerk secretaries,

the unemployed, etc. In the carriage, Gordon, returning

from work, standing.

A LARGE middle-aged WOMAN is standing in the crowded

aisle at one end of the carriage. She suddenly shouts:

CONTINUED:

Laughter in the carriage.    Gordon is also enjoying the

joke.

A few voices also ask same question.

Laughter and voice saying "that's true."

More laughter.

CONTINUED:

There is more laughter.

Suddenly a MAN jumps on his seat waving his arms -- he's

about 40 years old -- in BLUE OVERALLS. He cannot take

it any more.

The noise goes down.

CLOSEUP - GORDON AND WOMAN

talking about the information.

The conversations in the carriage become muted and serious.

The train enters Soweto, there is smoke hanging over sev-

eral parts of the township, and official buildings are on

fire.

Suddenly, the passengers are gripped by the seriousness of

the situation.

There are snatches of conversation such as:

INT. GORDON'S HOUSE - EVENING

Silence.

A small three-room Soweto brick house -- The living room

is modestly furnished.

EMILY, Gordon's 40-year-old wife, is sitting on a narrow

iron bedstead against the wall, clutching her youngest

2-year-old son -- Her mind is preoccupied. Sitting next

to her is a ten-year-old daughter.

Gordon is sitting on a chair at the table with his second

eldest son, Robert -- aged 14 years -- standing by the

side of the table -- sitting on an old easy chair is a

Soweto resident with his 15-year-old DAUGHTER standing

beside him.

The girl glances at her father.    He coaxes her to talk.

INT. SOWETO POLICE STATION - DAY

Black parents, waiting. At the counter with Gordon, a

large black man, STANLEY, a friend -- his big easy smile

is working hard on a white policeman, the station SERGEANT

VAN ZYL, about to run out of patience.

Gordon sucks in his breath audibly.

CONTINUED:

Stanley walks up to a WOMAN.

The policeman calls her -- she hurries to the counter.

INT. BARAGWANATH MORTUARY - DAY

A white-uniformed assistant leads a line of African

parents, reeking of sadness, into a cool room where metal

drawers open from the walls.

Stanley and JULIUS their black lawyer -- the two men seem

to be very well-known, people shake hands with them,

salute them --

Gordon and Emily's sadness is tinged with anger -- they

have dignity, defiance, bowed with grief as they are.

Stanley's large hand is placed gently on Emily's shoulder

as they examine the dead faces before them.

They belong to children, some    in torn, dirty clothes,

others naked, some mutilated,    others whole and seemingly

unharmed, as if asleep, until    the small, neat hole in

temple or chest and the small    crust of blood is brought

to our attention.

A woman behind them starts to scream. They look around

to see her holding onto a drawer, her legs buckling.

Another woman pulls her close to grieve with her. The

assistant approaches them and after a soft exchange he

writes a name on a tag and ties it onto the body. The

woman can't, won't leave her dead child. Her friend has

to pull her away.

CONTINUED:

The crowd parts to let them through.    Other women reach

out to touch her.

Gordon looks into the last drawer, Jonathan is not there.

They make their way out past the other parents and a group

of mourning women sitting.

EXT. MORTUARY - DAY

Gordon, Emily and their friends cross to Stanley's great

white elderly Dodge, this "etembalami" with the big butter-

fly. For, amongst other things, he is the owner and

driver of a pirate taxi.

They get in. Stanley pauses -- looks across at a small

red VW Beetle parked nearby, waiting. He shakes his

head -- the VW flashes its lights and drives off.

INT. STANLEY'S TAXI - DAY

Inside they sit in silence... recovering from the ordeal.

Only Emily silently whispers "Thank God, thank God."

After a while...

EXT. BEN'S GARDEN - MORNING

Gordon is at work already -- 8 AM -- mowing the lawn.

He's intense, unsmiling, burdened as he goes about his

task, expertly.

Sounds of BEN and JOHAN LAUGHING coming from inside.

INT. BEN'S DEN - MORNING

Ben and Johan, in robes, their hair still wet from their

showers, having an imaginary boxing match. Johan has

Ben on the ropes, backs him out of the house.

EXT. BEN'S GARDEN

Ben adjusts the sash of his robe and takes the offensive

towards Johan, as he sees Gordon.

No response.   Ben does a double-take and stops playing.

He crosses the yard to Gordon, fluffing his hair dry,

Johan follows behind.

No response again. Gordon continues to work.     Ben and

Johan exchange puzzled looks.

Gordon stops, switches OFF the MACHINE, stands not looking

at Ben.

CONTINUED:

Gordon just looks at him, sadly, patiently.

Ben walks off with Johan as Gordon STARTS the MOWER.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - MORNING

Ben is talking on the phone.

INT. LAWYER'S OFFICE - DAY

Sumptuous lawyer's offices, Johannesburg. They're lush-

carpeted. A black woman cleaner is finishing off her

early-morning chores, packing up as white staff are be-

ginning to arrive. They're fresh, shining, attractive

-- whipping the covers off typewriters.

A young black girl, smart, well-groomed, is carrying a

tray of coffee, desk to desk. FOLLOW her as she

approaches her employer's open office door.

We hear his voice -- see him on the phone in the b.g.

He nods, makes notes. He's in shirtsleeves.        At his post

early, ready for action.

INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY

The coffee girl enters, places a cup on Lewinson's desk,

and retreats.

CONTINUED:

MONTAGE - SEARCH FOR JONATHAN

A) TYPEWRITER

B) INT. POLICE HQ. (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - INTERROGATION

C) POLICE TYPEWRITER

D) HOSPITAL (JOHANNESBURG)

E) TYPEWRITER

F) 2ND POLICE TYPEWRITER

G) MATRON

F) FINALLY:

I) HOSPITAL - WHITE SUPERINTENDENT FACING JULIUS

J) STANLEY

K) CLOSE ON STANLEY'S FACE

END MONTAGE.

INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY

He is with a client.    He pushes a button on the intercom.

He listens -- his face slowly becoming solemn --

He replaces the receiver... looks at it for a long second

... before lifting his eyes to the client.

He dials a number.

INT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - STAFF ROOM - DAY

Tea break for the teachers, Ben       among them. He is enjoy-

ing a laugh with his colleagues       -- maybe in Afrikaans --

we should hear the language here       where we need not com-

prehend. An African serves the        tea.

There's a KNOCK -- a monitor comes in and talks to Ben

who follows him outside.

INT. SCHOOL - DAY

Ben at the phone.

INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY

INT. SCHOOL - DAY

Ben at the phone.

CONTINUED:

Ben hangs up and stays there... thinking... until the

BELL snaps him out of his thoughts.

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - PLAYING FIELDS - DAY

The playing fields, not of Eton but as good as...

... Cries and whistles rise through the still, warm air

from a game of schoolboy rugby being played below us by

immaculately-fitted teams.

On another part of the field Gordon's lawnmower off to

the side -- two figures pace -- slowly -- one white, one

black --

African.

CONTINUED:

The game on the next pitch finishes with a pierce of the

whistle. The kids run off past Ben and Gordon. Gordon

climbs onto the small lawn mower and STARTS the ENGINE.

And drives away -- chugging across the field... leaving

Ben -- helpless -- behind him -- watching.

From his:

OFFICE WINDOW

in the school behind -- a worried headmaster watches.

We hear his voice over.

EXT. CAR PARK

The car park. He and Ben are getting into their cars at

the end of the day.

CONTINUED:

And drives off, leaving Ben watching him, shaking his

head at the man's obtuseness.

EXT. NGUBENE HOUSE - LATE AFTERNOON

Emily is watering a tiny vegetable plot in the yard, with

a bucket and a pierced tin.

Robert is playing nearby with the youngest child.

Robert sees Gordon walking slowly to their house and says

playfully to the baby:

Emily turns to look. She immediately realizes that some-

thing is wrong. She drops the tin and walks a few steps

toward the gate.

Gordon sees her and stops.

Emily starts to break down.

Gordon hurries to embrace her.

Gordon starts to lead her to the house.

Margaret, Emily's neighbor, comes, hurries, helps her,

comforts her, escorting them to the house.

EXT. SOWETO MAIN ROAD - DAY

Stanley and Gordon are driving along Soweto main road.

A 10-years-old BOY stops the car.

INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY

Stanley turns the car round and drives off at speed.

EXT. DUBE'S SHOP - DAY

Wellington and a few pals are standing outside the shop

-- they greet Stanley as they see the car -- Stanley

shouts back greeting.

Wellington comes to the car.   He's limping, wearing

sunglasses.

As he's approaching the car, Stanley opens the back door

for him.

He enters and removes the glasses.

Stanley notices a deep scar from the forehead to the

cheek.

CONTINUED:

Wellington has a nervous arm-twitch... and nods to the

question.

INT. BEN'S DINING ROOM

Sizette and   Chris with the family at dinner. Suzette is

passed the   Rand Daily Mail newspaper by Chris, folded at

an article   headlined: "WHAT REALLY HAPPENED TO JONATHAN

NGUBENE?"    by Melanie Bruwer.

Chris helps himself to more.     Suzette looks at the paper.

CONTINUED:

She passes the paper to Ben. He looks at Melanie's pic-

ture: she looks 30 years old, long black hair, large

dark eyes with a fierce, unsettling, uncompromising stare,

a small nose and a generous and sensual mouth.

Chris and Johan laugh.

CONTINUED:

As Johan stands, to clear the table. He turns to his

father with a smile, and shrugs -- an irritated Suzette

joins them.

INT. GORDON'S HOUSE (SOWETO) - NIGHT

The small dark room is crowded. The one oil lamp -- on

the table -- At the table sits Gordon... his glasses on

the end of his nose.

Emily is sitting by the stove.      Robert stands beside her

chair, watching, listening.

The youngsters are sleeping in opposite directions on the

iron bed.

Wellington is sitting beside Gordon at the table. There

is something wild in his manner. He looks everywhere as

if he is scared of being attacked unawares.

The black cleaner from John Vorster Sq. stands near the

table. Gordon is reading aloud from a handwritten

document.

Wellington nods and gets more paranoid. The black cleaner

puts an understanding hand on his shoulder.

Gordon pauses... steadies himself... pushes his glasses

up his nose... clears his throat...

CONTINUED:

Wellington nods again.    Emily closes her eyes to shut out

the image.

There's a long silence. Gordon closes his eyes and

struggles with his grief. Emily sobs, Robert looks on

in anger. Then, finally, Gordon offers a pen to

Wellington, who is about to sign the foot of the state-

ment, when...

... Suddenly there   is the sound of a TRUCK APPROACHING.

Wellington rushes   to the front window and peers outside;

then panics, fear   in his eyes, he runs into a bedroom and

jumps through the   window.

Everyone in the room is bewildered.

The front door bursts open. Emily sits impassively look-

ing at the five policemen (two whites and three Africans).

The youngest child startled from his sleep starts to cry.

Emily goes to the bed and picks the child up and returns

to her chair.

CONTINUED:

He notices the papers on the table and picks them up.        He

looks at them and realizes their importance.

Capt. Stolz walks into the room and surveys the room and

its occupants. Lieutenant Venter hands him the papers.

He goes through them, nodding to himself as he reads

silently. He folds them neatly and puts them into his

inside jacket pocket. He walks up to Gordon.

Gordon doesn't answer.

He turns to the cleaner who automatically stands.

Calmly, he paces round the room looking around, then when

he reaches the bed where the 10-years-old girl is watch-

ing terrified, he pulls off the blankets, yanks the girl

off the bed by her arm and frantically searches the bed.

The child cries. Robert the brother goes to his sister

and hugs her as he glares at Stolz with anger and hatred.

The other policeman appears from the other bedrooms empty-

handed. Gordon and the cleaner are roughly handled as

they are handcuffed by the African Security Police.

Over his shoulder Gordon manages to give Emily one last

look, as he's hustled out of the house.

CONTINUED:

Emily sits motionless, anger in her face.    She can hear

the sound of the CARS DRIVING AWAY.

Margaret (her neighbor) appears at the door.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT

Behind Ben's house, are the servants' quarters attached

to the garage.

Ben has adapted what would have been a maid's room into

his study and the adjoining room into a do-it-yourself

workshop.

The study has photographs of Ben's past as a provincial

rugby player, of his family, school staff and TRECHIKOFF

reproduction.

On a cupboard are trophies of individual sports at

university.

He works off a plain desk on which is a handsome pipe-

rack with several pipes. His indulgence is a comfortable

easy chair.

Ben's study, containing only the figure of Ben. He's

hunched over his desk, looking blankly at the newspaper.

His shirt is unbuttoned, his jacket slung across his

chair. He draws heavily on his pipe, wreathing his

head with smoke in the beam of the single desk light.

He sits in his chair:

Gordon's voice rises in his thoughts.

He mutters -- more a prayer than a curse.

CONTINUED:

Johan is entering, knocking on the half-open door. He's

in his pajamas and dressing gown, ready for bed. Ben

looks up at him. Johan kisses his father who suddenly

clasp his son hard, clinging to him for dear life.

The boy throws his arms around his dad's neck.

Susan appears at the door with a cup of coffee. She's

had a bath -- her hair is wet -- and she's in her

housecoat.

Ben and Johan don't notice her approach.

She watches sympathetically for a moment, then...

Johan pulls back from his father's arms.

The boy nods and leaves.

As Susan rests the cup of coffee on the desk before Ben.

She notices the Rand Daily Mail.

Her housecoat has fallen open.       He lifts his face to hers

and kisses her.

CONTINUED:

She chuckles, satisfied, leaving him.

He picks up his cup and drinks. He thinks again for a

moment. Then he removes a photocopied letter from an

envelope and reads:

INT. CLASSROOM - DAY

Afrikaan boys in uniform hunching over their desks

writing... On the blackboard: the date and history test:

Ben walks through the aisles and from time to time oppor-

tunities to glance at the window at Gordon's motionless

tractor sitting in the field.

He turns back   and notices a boy focusing on the ceiling.

His pen in his   mouth, trying desperately to find the

answers. Ben    has a smile, then crosses to him, bends down

and strikes a   similar pose.

The class breaks up into laughter.

Moans from the students.

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - VERANDA - DAY

Ben appears on the other side of the veranda. He is in

Cloete's company -- the little big man... grey hair...

65 years old. The headmaster.

They stop in before Ben's colleague, Vivier, passing,

shakes hands with him. A woman arrives and waits. Cloete

says something to Ben, then laughs.

CONTINUED:

Ben smiles and Cloete goes into the office.

The woman approaches Ben... talks to him... they both turn

back to see...

... Emily standing there, a soaking headscarf tied native-

style around her head.

Ben thanks the woman and crosses the yard.

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY

... Stanley is waiting in his car.     His sunglasses on his

nose...

... The SCHOOL BELL RINGS to give the end of the tea inter-

val. Ben walks out with Emily to Stanley's car. Stanley

gets out, they stare at each other. Finally Stanley

breaks the silence.

Ben feels a little uncomfortable.

Stanley opens the door to Emily.

Stanley slaps the door with a big laugh.     He gets into the

car and drives away.

CLOSE ON BEN

perplexed.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM - JOHN VORSTER SQUARE - DAY

Gordon stands facing the wall, his arm raised.    He has

wetted his trousers.

Captain Stolz is pacing behind him. Lieutenant Venter,

sitting on the edge of the desk, is smoking.

Stolz interrupts him with a blow to his face.    As Gordon

drops his hands, the officer shouts to him.

Gordon doesn't answer.

The Lieutenant walks slowly to him, calmly removes his

fag-end of cigarette from his lips and stubs it on

Gordon's neck.

He walks back to his place.

Captain Stolz opens the door and shouts:

Gordon has a look of terror.

Immediately a black security policeman walks in with a

bag.

Johannes goes to wet the bag in a bucket in a corner.

Lieutenant Venter grabs Gordon, throws him onto a chair

and handcuffs his hands behind the chair.

CONTINUED:

Stolz is supervising.

The Lieutenant places the wet bag over Gordon's head and

ties it.

Gordon starts groaning and wriggling.

INT. POLICE HEADQUARTERS (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY

Under the gaze of a uniformed POLICEMAN in a bulletproof

glass cage, Ben fills in a slip, then hands it to the

Policeman, who then makes a phone call.

Whilst waiting, Ben notices a video surveillance camera.

Just then, a 20-year-old African girl, Afro-style hair,

is brought in held on both sides by two white policemen.

She is taken into a lift.

Ben watches them enter the lift and follows the progress

of lift to the 10th floor.

The Policeman stamps the slip and gives it to Ben.

Ben enters a lift.

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY

Gordon's still sitting on the chair, slumped -- Johannes

removes the handcuffs as the Lieutenant removes the wet

bag.

Gordon is breathing heavily and semi-conscious.

Suddenly Captain Stolz punches him heavily on the face.

Gordon drops on the floor with blood gushing from his nose

and mouth. Captain Stolz grabs him by his collar.

The PHONE RINGS.    Stolz drops Gordon and walks to answer.

INT. VILJOEN'S OFFICE - DAY

Behind the large desk, Colonel VILJEON replaces the tele-

phone receiver; there is a KNOCK on the door -- and a young

policeman ushers in Ben. Colonel Viljoen stands and ex-

tends a hand.

They shake.   He's a large, friendly man, ruddy face, gray

crew cut.

There's a KNOCK on the door.

The door opens revealing Captain Stolz.

Captain Stolz nods correctly, unsmiling, comfortably

dressed, English-style. He shakes hands with Ben. Then

walks toward the window and stands there.

As he's watching Ben, he begins to clean out his pipe with

a silver penknife;

Ben sinks into a low leather chair before the desk.    Be-

hind him he can feel Stolz's eyes.

Viljoen peers through his half-moons at the letter in

front of him. The pipe scraping continues behind Ben's

ear.

CONTINUED:

He leans back comfortably in his chair.

CONTINUED:

Ben hastens to reassure him.

He looks directly at Ben, frank, open, trustworthy.

Viljoen laughs again.

Then... authority.

There's another pause. The Colonel takes out a fountain

pen -- unscrews it -- and arranges a sheet before him

before speaking.

CONTINUED:

Viljoen doesn't react.

The noise stops behind.

The Colonel pauses.

CONTINUED:

Ben turns back, surprised.

The Colonel looks up at him... the first sign of steel in

his eyes... then back to the papers.

The noise starts again behind Ben.

There's a moment's pause -- then a burst of laughter.

More laughter -- Ben joins in.    Viljoen stands, signalling

an end to the meeting.

EXT. BEN'S CAR - DAY

Johan is sitting, waiting, in the parked car... the RADIO

ON. He's bored.

INT. COLONEL'S OFFICE

CONTINUED:

Ben nods, smiles, makes for the door, turns.

And the door shuts behind him.

There's silence for a moment... Viljoen staring at the

closed door -- Stolz looks expectantly at him.

Stolz leaves, shutting the door behind him.

EXT. JON VORSTER SQUARE

Ben opening his car. Johan is sitting in the front seat.

As Ben gets into the car, he glances at the John Vorster

Square building.

INT. BEN'S CAR - DAY

Ben is motoring through and out of Johannesburg.    Johan

is silent beside him, impatient.

Ben suddenly realizes that he didn't ask to see Gordon.

INT. DU TOIT KITCHEN - NIGHT

Suzette and Susan in the kitchen arranging the dessert

tray. The kitchen is surprisingly neat. LAUGHTER is

coming from the dining room.

Ben comes in to open extra bottles of wine, hears Susan's

line.

CONTINUED:

Susan leaves the kitchen without a word, with the dessert

plates on the tray to the dining room.

INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Susan reaches VIVIERS and the minister DOMINEE BESTER,

with their dessert plates. The candles have burned down

amid the detritus of dinner: glasses disarranged and

dirty, the cloth spotted with food and wine and ashes.

In addition to Viviers, dateless, and Bester and his

wife, the school's headmaster, Cloete and his wife.

INT. DU TOIT HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ben hastily uncorking a bottle of wine while talking to

Suzette.

Suzette giggles, amazed.

CONTINUED:

A pause.   She looks at him.

She ruffles his hair, smiles, kisses him.       They go back

into the dining room.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Ben serves her.

Susan passes to fetch milk jug and sugar basin from the

chine cupboard.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Susan enters the kitchen. As she is about to place the

jug and basin on the table next to the tray with cups of

the same set, there is a knock at the door.

The door opens and Stanley steps in.

CONTINUED:

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Ben and guests hear Susan.

Ben jumps up, hurries to the door.    Viviers starts to

follow.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Ben stops at the door, sees Stanley, turns to Viviers.

Viviers returns to his seat as Ben shuts the door behind

him.

Ben leads Stanley out of the kitchen, closing the door

behind him.

CLOSE ON SUSAN

intrigued.

INT. LEWINSON'S HOME - NIGHT

Lewinson is at the phone, behind him his wife, too, is

entertaining guests for dinner.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT

CONTINUED:

Stanley is waiting, his great hand on his hips, the other

one on Emily's shoulder. She is sitting on a chair.

Obviously, Stanley doesn't expect a positive response.

INT. LEWINSON HOME - NIGHT

INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT

Ben replaces the phone.    Turns to Emily and Stanley.

Ben can just hear Emily's soft voice.

INT. DU TOIT LOUNGE - NIGHT

Laughter again. Ben has rejoined the party in the

lounge. The women are together talking, laughing and the

men on their own.

General assent.

Susan doesn't react.   She leaves to join the womens'

group.

CONTINUED:

Bester doesn't answer.

His sharp tone surprises everybody.    He quiets.

There's a moment's embarrassed silence, broken by Suzette's

entrance with a tray of glasses and a bottle of brandy.

CONTINUED:

Ben starts pouring, and offers the first glass to Bester.

Bester shakes his hand.

Ben hands the glass to Viviers.

Immediately Viviers raises his glass and laughingly says:

INT. INTERROGATION ROOM (JOHN VORSTER SQUARE) - DAY

Gordon is undoing his trousers.

Venter roughly drops the trousers and pushing him to the

floor.

He handcuffs him while Johannes pulls off the trousers

and underpants, and manacles his ankles.

Johannes fetches a rod.

Venter goes to a cupboard, pulls out two electric wires

with electrodes attachments and places them on the desk.

All the preparation is done with practiced efficiency.

From the adjoining room there are angry shouts of a

woman.

Venter and Johannes place the rod between Gordon's elbow-

joints and the back of his knees. The door opens.

Gordon has a look of terror on his face.

Captain Stolz enters carrying a thickish file under his

arms, goes straight to the desk and sits down.

Johannes moves the table in line with the desk.

Lieutenant Venter and Johannes lift the trussed Gordon

and the ends of the rod between the desk and table.

CONTINUED:

Captain Stolz holds Gordon by the head and swings him like

a pendulum.

Very calmly Captain Stolz pulls out some papers from the

file.

The WOMAN in the next room SHOUTING louder than before --

that one is a real and tough activist --

As Johannes is fetching the bucket of water.        Venter goes

to the cupboard and stays there.

Johannes empties the bucket over Gordon.     Stolz attaches

the terminal to Gordon's earlobes.

Gordon is given a short burst of electric shock.

CONTINUED:

A knock at the door.

A black policeman in uniform.       JOHNSON SEROKE, enters

with a letter in his hand.

Stolz goes to take the letter and turns to place it on

his desk. He notices Seroke still standing.

Seroke leaves.

Gordon mumbles something.

He bends forward to hear, and Gordon's swollen, puffy

eyes hold his gaze.

CONTINUED:

Gordon suddenly shakes violently and shouts repeatedly.

INT. DUTCH REFORM CHURCH - MORNING

Dominee Bester is preaching from the pulpit.

Behind him, in his deacon's black tails, Ben listens with

clasped hands. On the opposite side, another man is lis-

tening, standing in the love of his family, Cloete.

BEN'S POV

The faces    of his friends scattered among the pews, Suzette

and Susan    listening intently, Johan beside her visibly

bored, his    eyes wandering to the Cloete's daughter at

the end of    the pew.

The organ plays the opening notes to a hymn, the congre-

gation rises and sings.

INT. BEN'S GARAGE - DAY

Ben's garage/workshop -- the door is open. Ben and Johan

are together building a strong desk for Johan.

The RADIO offers MUSIC to keep them company.   Susan is

confronting Ben.

She turns the RADIO DOWN, irritably.

Johan is embarrassed. Ben glances at him. Johan shrugs

and shakes his head "not me." Ben planes on.

Johan leaves.

CONTINUED:

Ben looks at her. Her tone is panic, urgent. She looks

afraid. He crosses over to her, takes her in his arms.

She smiles up at him, chuckles, and then they kiss.

Johan interrupts.

Johan leaves.

CONTINUED:

Susan exclaims in angry frustration and flees.

Stanley appears at the garage door.     He stands.

The news leaves Ben speechless.      Stanley continues in

flat, emotionless tones.

Ben, recovering from the shock.

Ben walks slowly out of the garage in deep thoughts --

Stanley follows him.

EXT. GARAGE - DAY

CONTINUED:

Ben stares at him. There is something like a strange

silence between them. Ben is confused and Stanley is

staring at him. Ben breaks this embarrassing mood.

INT. STANLEY'S CAR - DAY

Stanley drives sportingly as he talks to Ben, seated in

the back.

CONTINUED:

There's silence for a moment.

Stanley turns abruptly.

CONTINUED:

He laughs.

EXT. SOWETO BORDER - DAY

The car approaches a huge perimeter notice:

"YOU ARE NOW ENTERING SOWETO TOWNSHIP.    NO PERSON WITHOUT

THE NECESSARY PERMIT IS ALLOWED..."

Ben is driven into a different world; children playing in

dirty streets, in wrecks of cars, open spaces devoid of

vegetables, smoke from large rubbish dumps, burnt-out

skeletons of buses, beer halls and buildings. Clusters

of policemen in battle dress patrolling in the distance.

The car follows an isolated broken stretch of tarred road

hill cluttered with rusty tins, cardboard containers,

bottles.

EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY

A group of young children playing under the blinding sun

in a muddy ditch, notice the big painted butterfly on the

hood of Stanley's car.

They wave and scream at Stanley in their language and he

screams back at them.

Two little girls start running, heading toward the car.

Stanley notices the red VW parked in a corner. He man-

euvers and parks his car nearby.

BEN'S POV

A modern funeral parlor with its name painted on the side:

"MOROKA FUNERAL DIRECTOR (PTY) LTD."

BACK TO SCENE

Stanley notices the two little girls with dusty smiling

faces, standing there waiting for him.

The children give Stanley a coy disbelieving look as they

watch him go with the "white man."

CHILDREN'S POV

On the doorstep of the funeral parlor: Stanley and Ben

run into a young woman coming out with a shoulder bag

and a camera.

The young woman and Stanley exchange a quick, friendly

greeting -- it's MELANIE BRUWER, the Rand Daily reporter

-- and keep moving.

BACK TO SCENE

Ben turns back for a moment. Her face seems familiar to

him. He would like to talk to her, but there is no time.

Stanley is already inside.

INT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY

Ben and Stanley follow the proprietor who is expensively-

dressed in a dark suit. Gordon's coffin stands as one of

many in the room.

Inside the casket, brass fittings, white satin, lies

Gordon, incongruous, ludicrous in a black Sunday suit.

His hands are crossed on his chest like the claws of a

bird and his face, barely recognizable, is gray, the left

side distorted, blackish purple.

There are rough stitches of the postmortem across his

skull and a scar on his lips.

Stanley speaks in an African language to the undertaker.

The man opens Gordon's shirt and reveals the bruised and

battered chest.

CONTINUED:

Stanley observes Ben who looks at the wounds with horror.

Then another command from Stanley and the undertaker

opens the shirt to the waist. Ben's ashen. Stanley

thanks the man and turns to leave. Ben remains a minute.

He shuts his eyes tightly. Now he saw it. Now he must

believe it. He must accept that this battered corpse is

Gordon.

As he follows Stanley, he thanks the undertaker.

EXT. FUNERAL PARLOR - DAY

Outside the "sunlight," the children's laughter and

Stanley, hands in pockets, waiting for Ben by the car.

The same two little girls approach Stanley who gives them

some coins -- they run off happily.

Ben is coming outside blinking in the glaring sunlight.

Stanley glares at Ben, who is pale, shaken and silent.

They get into the car in silence.

Stanley starts the car.

Stanley looks at him.

Stanley drives off.

CONTINUED:

They drive in silence... then:

Stanley turns his RADIO ON and BANTU MUSIC invades the

car as it speeds away in a cloud of dust.

EXT. WHITE SUBURB STREET - LATE AFTERNOON

The big brassy Dodge is threading its way through the

leafy calm of the white suburb.

The "Bantu" MUSIC is STILL PLAYING on the radio under

Stanley's animated conversation with Ben.

A news bulletin in African language interrupts the music.

Stanley listens.

CONTINUED:

Stanley silently pulls up along the curb and comes to

rest at Ben's gate.

EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - ENTRANCE - LATE EVENING

Ben suddenly realizes the significances.

He laughs.

CONTINUED:

Stanley takes an empty cigarette packet from his pocket,

he writes on it.

Ben gets out of the car.

Stanley drives vigorously away.

Ben walks slowly and thoughtfully towards his house.         He

notices Susan watching him through the window.

He slumps on a chair on the veranda as Susan comes out of

the house followed by Johan -- they both stand slightly

worried at his moroseness.

CONTINUED:

Johan looks horrified.

Johan hurries into the house.

She turns and walks into the house, leaving Ben.

EXT. SOWETO CEMETERY - MORNING

The large Soweto cemetery has scores of graves ready for

burials. The chief mourners, Emily, Robert, his sister,

Margaret, four relatives and Stanley are standing on

either side of the PRIEST. Gordon's coffin is in the

grave; several wreaths are on the side of the grave.

There are about fifteen hundred mourners, and half are

youths. There are several local reporters and overseas

television reporters.

The police are in attendance in large numbers at the edge

of the crowd, some in battle dress and some with dogs.

The crowd roars:   "Amanda!   Amanda!"

The Priest starts a short hymn and the crowd joins in.

At the end of the hymn.

The crowd starts singing a freedom song with arms raised.

The funeral has now become a political demonstration.

Mr. Pilani, who is a dignified, educated 70-years-old,

walks slowly and waits beside the chief mourners. He

is handed a loudspeaker.

CONTINUED:

A SENIOR POLICE OFFICER threads his way through the

crowd, a loud hailer in his hand. As he reaches the

grave he turns. The crowd is quiet. He says something

to the Priest then addresses the crowd.

As though by signal the police start attacking the

mourners with truncheons and dogs. There is pandemon-

ium, women screaming, people falling into graves or

covering in them.

The Priest and Stanley lead Emily and the family away

in the opposite direction.

The press and television are recording the scene. The

police start throwing tear gas canisters. There is no

confrontation, the crowd is fleeing in all directions.

One television cameraman is purposely pushed into a grave

by a very young policeman, his round recordist is pulled

up into the adjourning grave by the connecting cord.

Melanie stands on a tombstone watching and making notes.

INT. BEN'S LOUNGE - NIGHT

Ben, Susan watching the main evening news bulletin on TV.

On the screen a sequence of rioting.

Susan briefly glances at Ben.

Follows the newscaster and then reports:

Susan leaves the room.

CONTINUED:

Ben turns OFF the TV and stays in his thoughts.

EXT. JOHANNESBURG - STREET - AFTERNOON

Stanley and Ben are driving in the outskirts of

Johannesburg.

EXT. APPROACHES OF SOWETO - AFTERNOON

Stanley drives seemingly alone at very high speeds, which

he maintains through the streets of Soweto... using his

horn to scatter people out of his way, to the anger and

indulgence of others.

The CAR SCREECHES to a halt outside Emily's house.

Stanley gets out of the car and greets the startled

neighbors... and acknowledges the friendly shouts of

children.

Stanley looks around, then goes back to the car, opens

the back door, leans and says something. Suddenly, to

everyone's astonishment, Ben crawls out of the car;

Stanley hustles him into Emily's house.

Stanley waves at the people, a sign of assurance, then

closes the door behind him.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

Ben stands awkwardly for a moment, taking in the room and

the people in it. He then walks over to Emily who is

standing at the table. He goes to shake her hand.

Ben nods at them.    Stanley sits himself down.

CONTINUED:

Robert walks in, looks at Ben and walks into his bedroom

to fetch something, then as he's about to go out:

Robert stops momentarily and looks at Ben with hostility

and hurries out of the room banging the door.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

Ben has been listening to the discussion with interest,

this being the first time he has heard Africans talking

seriously about their problems.

CONTINUED:

He opens the door and walks out.

EXT. EMILY'S HOUSE - AFTERNOON

A small group of youngsters are there, hands thrust into

their pockets, hanging around in a stony silence.

Robert is standing by the door.

Stanley calls one of them and talks to him -- the boys

look around and say something.

As Stanley goes back to the door, passing Robert, he

ruffles his hair.

Ben hurries out of the room.       The children stare at him.

CONTINUED:

Stanley opens the back door for Ben.     Who crouches on

the floor.

Some of the boys snicker and one bursts out laughing.

As Stanley gets into the car he shouts at them:

Stanley drives off at speed.

EXT. OUTSKIRTS OF SOWETO - LATE AFTERNOON

Stanley is driving, they have left Soweto.       Ben still on

the floor.

Ben rises and sees that they're at least a mile out.       He

is not amused.

They drive off.

INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Susan and Ben are in bed.    Susan is in Ben's arms, she is

relaxed and loving.

Ben talks quietly and calmly.

Susan kisses Ben tenderly.

INT. COURT ROOM - FIRST DAY OF INQUEST - DAY

The inquest of Gordon Ngubene... conducted by MAGISTRATE

KLOPPER. In the witness box is DR. JANSEN, the state

pathologist, giving evidence. Advocate DE VILLIERS is

cross examining.

CONTINUED:

There's a vigorous reaction to this around the court,

which gives us a chance to discover the crowd:

In the white section of the public gallery are Ben and

about eight other whites.

The black section is filled to capacity with a few stand-

ing. In the front row is sitting Stanley next to

Margaret. At the entrance, a white policeman.

In the press section are several reporters; amongst them

Melanie Bruwer the Rand Daily Mail reporter.

Colonel Viljoen and several policemen are sitting around

the court.

CONTINUED:

ON Stanley listening.

There's a murmur around the court... Ben looks across at

Viljoen who returns his gaze -- smiling.

DR. HERZOG

the police physician, giving evidence.

CONTINUED:

Herzog's face is impassive.

ON crowd reacting.

During the hubbub De Villiers and the state advocate

trade places. The courtroom is quiet.

CONTINUED:

There's a buzz from the spectators as Captain Stolz walks

up to the witness stand. He's given a Bible.

ON Ben -- watches him.

CLOSEUP - STOLZ

In witness box, swearing in Afrikaans.

ON Stanley listening.

ON Ben listening.

ON Ben looking at Stolz, and shaking his head, bewildered.

Louw, taking it from his file on the table.

Stanley and Margaret listening.

He hands it to the court clerk.   There's uproar at this.

CONTINUED:

Ben is disgusted. He looks about the court, as if seeking

allies. His eyes meet Melanie's -- just for a second

there's recognition -- then he returns to De Villiers.

Advocate De Villiers cross-examining Captain Stolz.

The gallery screams its objections. Stanley leans forward

and grins across the partition at Ben. The Magistrate

warns the crowd. Finally the gallery quiets down.

No reaction from Stolz.

CONTINUED:

The Magistrate makes a note.

CONTINUED:

As the documents are passed to the Magistrate, they are

scorned by De Villiers. Imperviously he requests:

STRAIGHT ON ARCHIBALD CHIGORIMBO

Detainee in the witness box.    He swears in Zulu.

De Villiers holds his signed affidavit.

A sudden stillness in the court.

ON Ben.

ON Stanley.

ON Melanie.

ON Louw.

He pulls up his shirt -- his back is covered in bruises.

The crowd cannot restrain itself any longer.     Ben is

aghast by what he sees.

CONTINUED:

As Archibald leaves the witness stand, held by a special

branch officer, he raises his fist in salute and shouts

to the crowd: "AMANDLA." The crowd responds: "Ngawethu."

Ben looks at Archibald. He is very impressed by this

strength in the prisoner's eyes.

An officer   of the court shouts at the crowd: "silte in

die koort"   (silence in court) -- bailiffs collar a few of

the loudest   protesters and pull them with brutality

out of the   courtroom.

Louw confers hurriedly with the prosecution officers, then

turns back to the court.

He sits down, bland, examining his papers.

As Captain Stolz returns to the stand he crosses Archibald

being handcuffed by the S.B. officer.

Ben watches him passing by the detainee, straight, im-

passive without a look to him.

CONTINUED:

The crowd laughs.

EXT. COURTROOM - DAY

Emily, Margaret, Stanley and a man, are sitting outside

the court eating fish and chips.

There are various Africans sitting around for their lunch

break.

INT. CAFE NEAR COURT - DAY

Ben and Dan Lewinson having a light lunch in a nearby

cafe.

Dan Lewinson's dry laugh catches in his throat.

CONTINUED:

INT. COURTROOM - AFTERNOON

Advocate De Villiers and a dignified Emily in the witness

stand.

He shakes his head.

CONTINUED:

ON Ben, satisfied.

Grace's name is called. She is an attractive 20-years-

old girl. As she passes by Ben, he watches her with

concern; her face looks familiar. Of course he remembers

having seen her at John Vorster Square the first time he

went there to meet the colonel. GRACE NKOSI is the

African girl the two security officers were lifted to the

ten flour. He recognizes her.

Grace Nkosi in the witness stand.

She swears in Xhosa.

ON Ben obviously shocked.

CONTINUED:

ON Melanie taking notes.

Louw sits down.

The crowd stands and starts to leave the courtroom.

INT. COURTROOM - MORNING (SECOND DAY)

A silent black crowd; Emily, Margaret, Stanley anxiously

awaiting the verdict. Today the public gallery is more

crowded than before.

CONTINUED:

ON Ben's face.    ON Dan Lewinson's face.   ON Viljoen and

Stolz's faces.

Viljoen and Stolz smiling, shaking hands with Advocate

Louw in congratulations.

INT. FOYER OF COURTROOM - DAY

The predominantly black crowd obviously dissatisfied with

the verdict, discussing it as it moves slowly towards the

main entrance.

In the crowd Stanley, Margaret and Emily controlled,

dignified but obviously pained.

BEN

totally depressed, walking up to Emily.

CONTINUED:

Ben leans towards Emily.

Several press photographers are taking pictures osten-

sibly of Emily the widow.

Stanley gently guides Emily out of the building.

Ben, who is following, is besieged by the insistent

reporters, shouting:

Ben tries to get through.

Melanie appears, grabs Ben and pushes him away through

them.

The press is still pursuing them.

As Ben and Melanie reach Melanie's car:

CONTINUED:

They get into the car and as they drive away, Melanie

introduces herself.

Melanie smiles.

CONTINUED:

She smiles.

She smiles again.    A disarming smile.

EXT. MELANIE'S HOME - DAY

Melanie drives into the yard. The house is an old

Colonial style house amidst flowers, bushes and trees, a

controlled wild garden.

A figure is bent over a beehive. A large brimmed old hat

with a net hides his head and features.

Melanie stops the car in the driveway.

They get out of the car and walk towards him.

CONTINUED:

He straightens up and throws the net over his head and

studies Ben. MR. BRUWER is seventy years old; an

interesting face with a goatee beard.

He replaces his net and continues with the hive.

was spawned.

CONTINUED:

Melanie sits, her legs propped up on the settee, hugging

her knees.

CONTINUED:

She smiles.

INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Susan is sitting at the dressing table. She is applying

cleansing cream to her face. She is relaxed. Ben is

getting ready for bed.

A pause.     Susan starts to remove the cream.

Ben comes and stands behind Susan -- looking at her through

the mirror.

CONTINUED:

Susan swivels around and faces Ben.

Ben just stares at her with seething anger.       She stands up

and starts being hysterical.

Ben strides out of the room.

Then shuts the door behind him.

Susan stands stupefied.    There's the sound of the SPARE

ROOM DOOR.

INT. SPARE ROOM - NIGHT

Ben is standing in the middle of the room, in the dark.

On the wall behind him is a young Suzette's picture.

CONTINUED:

After a few seconds, Ben moves slowly to the bed and sits

on it still in deep thought.

SLOW MOVE TO a:

CLOSEUP ON BEN

And:

FADE IN:

INT. NEWSPAPER AND CONFECTIONARY SHOP - MORNING

It's a Saturday morning.

A shopping center in a white suburb.      Ben goes into a

newspaper shop.

There are two children buying sweets and a woman leaving.

The PROPRIETOR is an Afrikaner in his middle age.

Ben realizes that the man is not his usual conversational

self.

Ben goes to pick up an Afrikaans newspaper and the Rand

Daily Mail.

The man gets them and takes a note from Ben and gives him

his change. By then a man is waiting.

CONTINUED:

As he walks out the other man turns around to watch him.

EXT. STREET - MORNING

Ben walks    out of the shop. The newspaper under his arm.

A group of    three middle-aged women turn to look at him.

Ben didn't    see them. A little further on, he meets Mrs.

Coetzee.     He tries to greet her but she walks straight by.

Further on, he notices two men obviously talking about

him. Then a couple of boys on bikes snigger as they

pass him. He begins to wonder what's it all about, and

spontaneously checks his clothes.

EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - VERANDA - MORNING

Susan and Suzette sit there. Suzette's holding a news-

paper -- the Ossewa -- Susan's thoughtful, her face is red

and discomposed -- obviously she had cried. The PHONE

RINGS but they deliberately ignore it.

Ben appears with the newspapers under his arm, sees

Suzette's sports car and hurries to join them.

Suzette doesn't even give him a chance to kiss her.

Ben takes the newspaper and looks at the cover. A picture

of himself and Emily outside the courtroom. The two faces

are close together with the notes:

And in parenthesis "see page two."

He throws the Ossewa on a chair and checks into the Rand

Daily Mail. Inside there is a long article with Emily's

picture, titled "the Face of Grief."

Ben folds up the newspapers, and shakes his head. He

suddenly realizes why the people reacted like that outside.

CONTINUED:

Johan steps into the veranda.

Recognizing his father in the photo, Johan has picked up

the newspaper from the chair.

She leaves in rage.

CONTINUED:

Before she can stop herself, Susan slaps him across the

face, although not hard. Johan leaves without a word.

She clutches her hand, shocked at having it against him.

The PHONE starts to RING.    Susan runs out sobbing.

Ben looks at her then walks into the living room to pick

up the phone.

INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - MORNING

He puts the phone down.    The PHONE RINGS again.   Ben picks

it up and waits.

He replaces the receiver and is about to light his pipe

when the PHONE RINGS again.

He replaces the telephone and walks out of the house.

The PHONE KEEPS RINGING.

EXT. BESTER'S FARM - COUNTRY - DAY

The farm is a typical transvaal farm covering thousands of

acres.  In the distance there's a range of mountains.

Several cattle are grazing, herded by a poorly-clad African

and his son, aged 8 years.

Bester and Ben are leaning on the wooden fence of the

cattle kraal with calves penned in.

Just then the African "HERDBOY" walks up to them taking

off his lattered greasy hat.

Tom hurries away.

CONTINUED:

Bester and Ben walk towards the house still in

conversation.

INT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING

The staff is having coffee during morning break in the

staff room. The room has several easy chairs, a table with

the morning newspapers on it. The walls have pictures of

South African scenes.

There are several conversations in Afrikaans.   This is the

first morning since the photograph.

Ben walks into the staff room. The conversations stop.

Everyone looks at him with hostility. The teachers all

place their cups on the table and quietly file out of

the room.

Ben pours himself a cup of coffee; as he takes his first

sip, Cloete looks in, sees him. He walks in.

Ben looks at him calmly.

CONTINUED:

Cloete walks out of the room.

Viviers hurries into the room, he is late for his

coffee.

Ben picks up the copy of the Ossewa with the photograph

and shows it to Viviers.

EXT. MELANIE'S HOME - DAY

Ben stops the car in the Bruwer driveway. From the

driving seat he searches the garden for Bruwer.

He walks up to the front door and knocks, but there's no

reply. He goes 'round to the back and finds the old man

on his knees weeding his vegetable garden.

CONTINUED:

He throws down the small weeding-fork.

He leads Ben to the two old chairs by the back wall. He

enters the kitchen and returns with a bottle of greengage

wine and two glasses.

CONTINUED:

Bruwer farts loudly, Ben is taken aback, but the

Professor continues.

He farts and sips his greengage wine.

CONTINUED:

Ben is so fascinated by the old man's conversation he

didn't react. He is learning form his old Afrikaner.

CONTINUED:

Ben takes his leave.

INT. LEWINSON'S OFFICE - DAY

Ben and Dan Lewinson are sitting opposite, cups of

coffee in front of them.

EXT. ROADSIDE CAFE - AFTERNOON

It's lunch time and the working population of Jo'burg

has paused for lunch. Ben and Melanie are sitting at a

table outside. The cafe is on the outskirts of a very

affluent part of Johannesburg.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

Stolz picks up a book of Picasso's Peace Paintings,

starts leafing through it carefully, scrutinizing each

page.

He puts the Picasso book carefully back in the place he

took it from.

Stolz doesn't react...

INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - DAY

The search continues in the living room.        Susan is

standing pale, rigid, shocked.

Nothing from Stolz.

One of the men starts to roll up the carpet to look under

it.

Susan has to move out of his way.

CONTINUED:

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - DAY

All four tires of Ben's car have been slashed to ribbons.

INT. BEN'S GARAGE - DAY

Ben and Johan are there.

Ben takes a file from under a toolbox and measures it

carefully against the drawer base. Then, he selects a

piece of wood approximately the size of the drawer and

tries it for size.

We should be in no doubt that's he's constructing a

hiding place.

INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Susan is preparing a roast. There's music from a trans-

istor RADIO. Susan is startled by a voice, her father's

(Ben's FATHER-IN-LAW). She turns OFF, the RADIO.

He is aged about 70 years, thick set. She rushes to him

and he hugs her tightly and practically lifts her off the

floor. She kisses him.

She disentangles herself and goes to the living room as

excited as a child, the mother is standing by two cases,

smiling.

Susan hugs her.

She holds her mother at arm's length inspecting her.

CONTINUED:

Ben walks in.

He shakes hands with Father-In-Law.

He goes to MOTHER-IN-LAW.        He kisses her on the cheek.

She goes to the kitchen.

EXT. LOCAL GOLF COURSE - SUNSET

Ben and Father-In-Law are having a drink after a round of

golf, outside the club house.

CONTINUED:

Father signals the African waiter for more drinks.

first.

CONTINUED:

The waiter returns -- Father-in-law pays the bill, and as

he rises to leave, he puts a paternal arm on Ben's

shoulder.

CONTINUED:

They walk away.

EXT. STREET CORNER - EVENING

Stanley is parked in a street corner in the last     white

suburb on the way to Soweto. Ben pulls up in his      car

behind Stanley's. He walks over to Stanley's car      and

enters the back. Stanley smiles as he points at      his

watch.

They drive off towards Soweto.

CONTINUED:

Stanley laughs.

He laughs... making Ben smile.

A pause.

Stanley laughs again.

Ben accepts the handshake.

INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Susan sitting on an armchair, sewing. She is aware of a

car stopping opposite the house. Then several young

voices shout:

The car drives off at speed.

Susan sits petrified.

INT. STANLEY'S CAR - NIGHT

Ben and Stanley driving in Soweto.

It's a different city by night. The dark seems to soften

the violence of the confrontation, hiding the details

which, by day, assault and insult the eyes. There are

several GUNSHOTS in the distance. The only light comes

from the small, square windows of the innumerable houses.

Ben says nothing.

Further on there's a group of people outside a house.        As

they pass they hear HYMN SINGING from the house.

They drive on.

INT. EMILY'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Ben, Stanley and Emily are sitting    'round the table. Ben

has pulled the lamp closer to read    one of two notes from

Gordon -- one is written on ruled    paper, the other a

square of toilet paper. The notes     have been smuggled out

of John Vorster Square.

They are interrupted by a KNOCK at the door. Emily

snatches the notes and stuffs them into her bosom.

Everyone is tense as Emily slowly walks up to the door.

CONTINUED:

She opens it and   a man with a hat and dressed as a min-

ister walks in.    Before anyone can say anything, Stanley

bursts out in a   loud laugh. The man is slightly built,

aged 40 years.    He is JULIUS NQAKULA.

Ben is perplexed.    Emily closes the door and locks it.

He walks up to Ben and offers him his hand.

He laughs.

Emily produces the notes. Julius takes them. He starts

reading the toilet paper, which is harder to read.

CONTINUED:

The voice breaks off.

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED:

INT. BEN'S GARAGE - EVENING

Ben is standing by the workbench, the new drawer he and

Johan built for the toolbox, open before him.

He's rereading Gordon's letters to Emily.

Sound of approaching FOOTSTEPS. Ben quickly puts the

letters into the drawer and shuts it.

Susan appears at the door -- she looks ten years older.

INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EVENING

Johan sits, Ben crouched before him.   The boy's shirt is

torn, his eyes swollen, his lip cut.   He looks at the

floor. Susan hovers.

Ben holds his son's arms, gently.

He doesn't answer for a moment.   Then he nods.

Susan stares at him, at Ben, turns abruptly, walks out of

the room. Johan looks at his father.

He's crying.

CONTINUED:

Johan looks at his father through his tears.

Ben hugs his son.

MONTAGE

The Gordon Ngubene name-cleaning team on the move.

A)   BEN

B)   PHONE

C)   CLOSE ON NURSE

D)   CLOSE ON

E)   CLOSE ON

F)   CLOSE ON

CONTINUED:

G)   BEN

SHOTS.     Three!    Loud, sharp, terrifying.

INT. BEN'S LIVING ROOM - LATE EVENING

The WINDOW, a    LAMP and a MIRROR SHATTER -- Susan screams,

standing, her    hands -- clamped over her ears -- eyes

tight shut --    hysterical -- the TELEVISION CHATTERS on

an Afrikaans'    play.

Ben bursts in, holds her tight, as she screams into his

chest.

Johan's voice comes from his room.

Gently, he leads Susan who is sobbing now, out of the

room.

INT. KITCHEN - LATE EVENING

She's seated at the kitchen table. Ben has poured her a

brandy which she cups in her hands.

CONTINUED:

Her fear turns into anger.

She drops her head and sobs.

Ben sits beside her, and takes her hands to comfort her.

Susan puts her head on his shoulder.

Ben is obviously moved.

He squeezes her hands, then takes her in his arms.

INT. VILJOEN'S OFFICE - DAY

The colonel, amiable, cool, behind his desk. A dishev-

elled Ben, pitched angrily forward in his chair.

Viljoen reacts.

CONTINUED:

He leans forward towards Ben, his tone darkening.

Ben gets up to go.    The colonel doesn't rise to see him

out.

He leaves.    The colonel immediately picks up the phone.

EXT. BEN'S KITCHEN - EARLY MORNING

A 40-year-old African woman walks up to Ben's kitchen

door. She knocks.

Ben opens the door in pyjamas and dressing-gown.    She

hands him a note and leaves.

Ben reads the note and goes back into the house.

EXT. STREET IN VREDEDORP - MORNING

Vrededorp is a colored section of Johannesburg. It's

rundown area vacated by whites. There are children play-

ing in the street. Some unemployed men are sitting on

old chairs outside a doorway; a vendor is serving two

women from his milk churn.

Ben drives into the street   searching for an address. He

stops outside a house. As    he gets out of the car the

children and everyone stop   to look at him with interest.

He walks up to a door and   knocks.

A COLORED WOMAN appears as the door opens.    She is young

and obviously educated.

Ben nods, hesitatingly.

Ben walks into the living/dining room. It's a    very tidy

room with a three piece sitting room suite, a   sideboard

with a clock on it. At one end of the room is    the dining

area. The floor is linoleum and covered with    a rug in

the middle.

Stanley is lounging on a settee, beer in hand. On the

chair next to him a black man in a brown striped suit,

drinks orange squash. Thirtyish, pleasant face but very

tense. He rises as Ben walks in.

Ben nods to her.

CONTINUED:

Sadie goes to a cupboard and brings out a bottle of beer

and a glass. She opens the beer and hands it to Ben.

She disappears into the bedroom with a curtain at the

door.

The woman re-enters.

To the Seroke.

CONTINUED:

Sadie leaves.

CONTINUED:

Seroke hesitates and looks at Stanley.

Ben is horrified.

CONTINUED:

He jumps up and faces Ben with a look of anger and panic.

Seroke shakes hands with them as he's leaving.

Stanley goes to the cupboard for another beer.

CONTINUED:

Ben nods.

CONTINUED:

INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY

Ben's study is in chaos.

The books have been plucked from the shelves and the

contents of his drawers emptied on the floor.

Ben standing in the middle of the room surveying the

vandalism.

INT. BRUWER KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

This is a medium-sized kitchen with two doors leading

from it, one to the dining room and the other to the

living room. It has not changed since it was furnished

twenty years ago, the only modern appliances being the

electric stove and a modern mixer on the working table.

Ben is leaning against the wall next to the door leading

to the living room, drinking coffee.

Melanie, bare-feet, her long black hair tied up in a

ribbon, is washing up. She looks younger and fragile

with this hair-style.

She leans against the sink and picks up her mug of

coffee.

CONTINUED:

Pause.

Melanie pours him another mug of coffee and starts to

wipe up.

Melanie goes to the living room, as she passes Ben she

touches his arm and continues talking.

wanderings in Africa.

EXT. SOWETO - EMILY'S HOUSE - MID-MORNING

Parked outside the house is a municipality truck already

half-laden with Emily's furniture and possessions. Four

Africans in khaki overalls are loading the truck -- super-

vising the eviction of Emily are a white Soweto official,

Captain Stolz and Lt. Venter. In the b.g., a hundred yards

away is a "hippo" with black and white armed policemen.

Behind the truck are two police Land Rovers.

Emily is sitting outside on one of her chairs as neighbors

walk up to her to comfort her and say their goodbyes. Her

daughter is carrying the youngest child and standing next

to Emily -- several children are watching. A woman in

the crowd starts singing a freedom song: "UMZIMA

LOMTHWALO" ("THIS BURDEN IS HEAVY"). The song is taken up

by the other women.

Venter tries to stop them and disperse them. Stolz

signals to him to leave them alone. One of the Africans

then walks up to her for the chair. She refuses to get

off the chair. The man looks at the white official as

though to ask "what do I do." The official looks at

Stolz. Venter walks up to Emily and, about to pull her

off the chair.

Venter pulls back. The women start to ululate. Emily

rises majestically, takes the youngest in her arms and

walks slowly to the truck followed by her daughter.

People cluster around her, singing with rage and shaking

her hand. Stolz observes the scene, impassive.

Emily and the children are helped onto the back of the

truck which drives away preceded by the police "hippo" and

escorted from the rear by the Land Rovers. The crowd

continues singing.

EXT. STREET - MORNING

Ben is leaving his home. This is a Saturday morning. Two

men are sitting in a car a few yards from the entrance to

the house. Ben doesn't pay attention to them. When he

is about twenty yards past, one of the men, Jaimie -- who

was present when Gordon was arrested -- gets out of the

car and follows Ben. Ben stops at a corner for a car and

again the FOOTSTEPS stop.

CONTINUED:

He turns furtively and sees the man, stopped, turning his

head. Ben decides to turn the corner, and listens to the

FOOTSTEPS. The man is still following. Ben then decides

to turn right back to have a good look at the man. They

pass each other and Ben takes a good look at him and turns

back onto the streets to the local shops. The man decides

not to follow.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - NIGHT

Ben and Stanley sit. Ben on his desk. Stanley in an

armchair with a drink. They look perplexed.

Stanley gulps down his whisky and stands up.

Then, puts the empty glass on the desk.

INT./EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING

Stanley peers through the curtains: he sees a car parked

outside the house. In it Jaimie and another S.B. They

are watching the house. Stanley quietly opens the door

and walks outside.

EXT. STANLEY'S HOUSE - EVENING

Stanley walks past his car and approaches the policeman.

The two policemen get out of their car, obviously angry.

They search and find nothing.

Stanley executes the order. Jaimie and the OTHER POLICE-

MAN peer in, their eyes sweeping the car.

Stanley   produces his passbook and hands it to the Police-

man who   inspects the pages laboriously, then throws the

book to   the ground. Stanley doesn't pick it up and just

watches   the man.

They return to their car and drive off. Stanley looks at

them thoughtfully, then picks up his book.

EXT. DAN PIENAAR SCHOOL - MORNING

All the students are in classes. Cloete walks        out of a

classroom and sees Capt. Stolz walking towards       the build-

ing. Cloete stops to wait for him. They shake         hands and

walk to Cloete's office talking affably. They        enter

office.

INT. BEN'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ben and Susan in bed, asleep. The PHONE RINGS... waking

them both. Ben answers. There's no one there. He puts

it down. The RINGING STARTS AGAIN. Ben puts the re-

ceiver down.

Susan shuts her eyes tight and turns her back on him to

hide her tears.

INT. CLOETE'S OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

It's a functional office. Picture of the South African

president (1976) John Vorster, on the wall. Various staff

pictures... Ben, summoned by Cloete, sits.

CONTINUED:

He walks silently through the office then continues.

Ben stares at him for a moment, then turns to leave.    As

he reaches the door, Cloete says:

Ben turns to stare at him, amazed.

The color drains from Ben's face. Then he steps forward,

slaps Cloete thunderously across the face, hurling him

back into his chair, and strides out, leaving the door

ajar.

EXT. SCHOOL YARD - LATE AFTERNOON

It's the end of the school day. The yard is practically

deserted. Only Viviers waiting for Ben under the veranda.

Ben appears.

Ben doesn't react.

Ben drives away.

INT. BEN'S DINING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Christmas day lunch. Assembled around the table are

Ben's Father-in-law, his wife Helen, Suzette and Chris,

her husband, Johan, Ben and Susan. They're all wearing

paper hats from Christmas crackers. On the table is a

large piece of roast lamb, ox tongue, a large turkey and

assorted vegetables.

Ben is at the head of the table adjacent to the door lead-

ing to the kitchen, the Father-in-law is sitting by his

side facing the door.

Ben is in the middle of carving the turkey, plates are

being passed to him.

They laugh. Susan laughs. She does her best to compose.

Suddenly... a KNOCK at the outside kitchen door. As Ben

turns towards the door it opens and...

INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

... Stanley erupts into the kitchen like a great black

bull in white suit and white shoes. A scarlet tie is

matched by a huge handkerchief hanging from his pocket.

He is a little drunk.

CONTINUED:

There's deadly quiet -- not even the clink of a spoon --

as the Du Toits look on aghast.

Slowly, as if in a dream, Ben rises and goes to Stanley

who spots him.

Before Stanley answers, the Father-in-law gets up from his

chair and goes to the kitchen.

Chris hurries into the kitchen ready for a fight.

CONTINUED:

Ben steps between them and pushes Chris back into the

dining room.

He strides into the dining room.

INT. DINING ROOM - AFTERNOON

Susan sits   with her eyes tight shut -- trying to shut out

the horror   of it all. As the Father-in-law goes into

the living   room, he pulls back his wife's chair and helps

her to her   feet.

Chris follows. Susan also. From the living room, she

calls Johan who is left alone at the table, perplexed.

Johan goes to his mother.

There's a general rush for the door and, without warning,

the room is empty. Only the TIN ANGELS TINKLE merrily

around their candles.

INT. KITCHEN - AFTERNOON

Stanley follows Ben slowly, swaying.

INT. DINING-ROOM - AFTERNOON

Ben sits on his chair.

He laughs again.   Ben cannot take it anymore.

Stanley's laughter changes into a broad grin. He sur-

veys the table and takes a bit of turkey from a plate

and starts to eat it quietly.

CONTINUED:

Ben grabs him by the shoulders and starts to shake him.

Stanley shoves Ben off, and glares at him, bloodshot eyes

breathing heavily.

Ben stares at him in stunned disbelief.

Stanley doesn't answer - he cries.

Ben grabs him by the shoulders and shakes him.

Ben's hand still on Stanley's shoulder, he sits slowly

beside him, shaken, his face ravaged by the news.

Through the window, he sees Suzette and Chris carrying

suitcases, back down the path to his in-laws' car;

Father-In-Law shepherding his wife and an ashen, dazed

Susan, helping them into the car.

As they leave see Johan leaning against the dining room

door, watching his father and Stanley.

INT. BRUWER HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - LATE EVENING

A very tense Ben is sitting on Professor Bruwer's chair.

Melanie is curled up on the old settee.

CONTINUED:

Ben and Melanie laugh.

CONTINUED:

Melanie jumps off the settee.

As Melanie walks away, Ben looks at her with admiration

and tenderness... her dress swinging around her legs...

her bare feet soundless on the floor... the quiet grace

of her movement.

On the way to the kitchen to get the drinks, Melanie goes

to the record player. There's a record already on the

turntable.

Suddenly as if rising from a dream, Ben murmurs:

She goes into the kitchen.

As Melanie hums to herself to     the BLUES MUSIC, in the

kitchen, Ben walks over to the     window and furtively

glances out, to assure himself     that nobody is watching.

He takes then a book on a pile     next to the settee and

pages slowly through it.

Melanie returns with two glasses, still in her happy

mood. She places Ben's glass on the side table next to

the settee, takes the book from him and makes him sit

down.

CONTINUED:

Ben raises his glass and touches it with hers.

She reaches for his hand.

A new track starts on the RECORD.

Jumping up and taking Ben's glass and placing it on the

side table, she pulls him to his feet.

They laugh as they start to dance to the slow BLUES

MUSIC. The laughing subsides as they hold each other

closer. The dancing starts to lose the beat of the

music. They look into each other's eyes and Ben envel-

ops her tenderly in his arms hugging her as close as

possible against him.

They stop dancing.     Ben kisses her.   A long, warm and

tender kiss.

INT. MELANIE'S BEDROOM

Ben and Melanie in bed.

He is kissing her and fondling her passionately. During

the love play, Ben reaches for the lightswitch of the

bedside lamp, and knocks it over. They make love.

INT. LOCAL SUPERMARKET - MORNING

Ben is shopping at the local supermarket. He    is pushing

a trolley. As he places some groceries into    his trolley,

he notices a man standing near the check-out   counters.

The man is similar built as Jamie and similar   hairstyle.

He's reading a newspaper, his face concealed.

Ben drops the package he was inspecting, back on the

shelf and pushes his trolley towards the man to try and

see his face.

The man moves away. Ben follows him and has decided to

confront him. Man picks up a pack of ham.

Ben is about to remonstrate with him.

Just then a LADY and her daughter hurry to the man, push-

ing a trolley. Man turns to look at Ben.

He pushes his trolley away embarrassed.

EXT. SUZETTE'S HOUSE - SWIMMING POOL - DAY

The immaculate blue of the pool. Johan hurls himself out

of the water, flops down at the side.

Suzette and Ben nearby, sitting in the sun.

Pieter at the barbecue, sizzling thick steaks.

A servant in white uniform soundlessly laying the table

on the patio behind him.

The nanny with the baby in the shade.

CONTINUED:

She turns to Ben, squinting in the sun.

A pause.

ON Johan listening.

Ben smiles sadly at her... Suzette understands.        Johan

looks at them.

EXT. SUZETTE'S HOUSE - LATER

Ben and Johan in the car.        Suzette leans in through the

driver's window.

CONTINUED:

Ben smiles.

ON Johan looking at Suzette then at Ben with concern.

EXT. INDIAN TOWNSHIP - DAY

Ben has parked his car in a street corner of the upmarket

section of the Asian township. He peers around him, then

walks away.

Ben knocks at a door.

The door is opened cautiously by DR. HASSIEM, a tall,

handsome Indian, aged 35 years. His clothes are casual

but expensive. His six-year-old daughter, large dark

eyes, is clinging to his leg. We recognize the little

girl of the photograph near the telephone, from earlier.

Dr. Hassiem looks shaky, nervous.

CONTINUED:

The little girl still clinging to his leg, watching Ben.

Hassiem gives Ben a long look.    He picks up his daughter

and opens the door fully.

Ben walks into the large living room, tastefully

furnished.

Ben is still looking 'round at the opulence.       He sits in

a chair.

CONTINUED:

Pause.   Ben nods, silent.

Dr. Hassiem puts down his daughter.

CONTINUED:

Dr. Hassiem thinks it over for a while then:

Ben watches him leave the room, the little girl following

him. He gets up from the chair, walks to the window,

glances through it, then steps to look at some family

photographs on the mantlepiece. Amongst them a photograph

of Dr. Hassiem before "Big Ben." Dr. Hassiem returns

with a file, the daughter still following.

Hassiem grins.

Ben congratulates him by a deep laughter.

INT. HASSIEM'S OFFICE - DAY

Ben and Dr. Hassiem working as a team, tape the type-

written sheets of the report among a Rand Daily Mail

newspaper pages at the back.

CONTINUED:

On Dr. Hassiem's desk we recognize next to the phone, the

little girl's photograph.

INT. BUILDING IN CONSTRUCTION - LATE AFTERNOON

A multi-storied building half-built. Stanley standing on

the fourth floor watching Ben's arrival.

Ben searches for Stanley who draws Ben's attention;

beckons him up. Ben indicates they meet halfway.

He joins Stanley who's sitting on a pile of bricks.

Stanley produces from his jacket pocket a newspaper --

Rand Daily Mail. He opens it on a certain page with the

picture of an African in police uniform, and hands it to

Ben.

CONTINUED:

Ben looks at Johnson's picture again and shakes his head.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY

A 8x10 black and white photograph on Ben's desk.

CONTINUED:

On the photograph a naked man and a girl on a bed and a

bedside lamp on its side. The man is Ben and the girl

is Melanie.

Stolz in sports jacket, standing next to the desk is

speaking... patronizing.

Stolz looks past Ben.

Ben whirls around to see Johan at the door. He shoots,

puts himself between the photograph and his son obviously

surprised to find Capt. Stolz there.

Johan walks away.

Ben, struggling to maintain his composure.

CONTINUED:

Ben answers by a gesture.

A pause.

Slowly and deliberately Stolz stubs out his cigarette

in the ashtray.

CONTINUED:

Ben walks up to the door to see him out. There's no

response from Stolz. He calmly takes a small card out of

his pocket and rests it on Ben's desk.

Stolz picks up the photograph and puts it into his

briefcase.

He walks out. Ben follows him 'round the garage and

watches him get into his car and drive away.

Johan joins his father.

INT. JAN SMUTS AIRPORT - DAY

Ben and Johan are standing in the public enclosure on the

top floor of the airport building. Ben is unshaved, he

looks tired, but happy. There is the usual bustle of

airport staff for the steps and luggage, two-thirds of

the staff being black.

Passengers emerge from the plane Melanie amongst them.

Some waving to friends and relatives on the public en-

closure. Melanie stops momentarily and looks up at the

enclosure. She sees Ben and Johan and waves at them.

They wave back and Ben indicates they'll be waiting for

her below. She walks off as they happily await her after

the ususal formalities.

INT. JAN SMUTS AIRPORT - DAY

Ben and Johan are waiting outside the arrivals exit.

Several passengers stream out, some being met. Eventually

there is a trickle of passengers. An INDIAN WOMAN is one

of the last to come out. Ben approaches her.

Just then an OFFICIAL walks out of the door.   Ben hurries

to him.

CONTINUED:

The Official hurries back.

Just then Stolz appears through the door. He slowly

walks up to Ben and Johan. Ben becomes apprehensive.

Ruffling his hair; Johan pulling away and glaring at him.

Stolz walks back.

CONTINUED:

They hurry out of the building in silence.

EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - DAY

Ben and Johan arriving at the house. An unsympathetic

small crowd is there waiting... They react, murmuring

in Afrikaans, watching them with hostility as Ben and

Johan get out of the car and discover the chaos. The

wreckage. The garage and Ben's study have been bombed.

Johan leaves Ben and rushes to the house. The crowd

starts to disperse.

The entire    tools cupboard has been methodically ripped

apart and    the contents strewn on the garage floor.

Everything    is half-burnt... charred... Ben has sunk onto

the stool    in total defeat. There's silence.

Then Johan appears at the door. He hands Ben a large

envelope -- in it, the file with all the papers. Ben looks

up at Johan.

Ben grabs his son, hugs him and holds on for dear life.

INT. BEN'S STUDY - DAY

Ben is sitting at the kitchen table.

CONTINUED:

Before him, scattered on the table: the affidavits he

collected, the Hassiem report, cuttings of articles by

Melanie in the Rand Daily Mail about Jonathan, newspaper

pictures of Gordon, of Seroke, of himself with Emily, the

half-burnt "peace painting" of Picasso, half-burnt photo

of Ben with Suzette, a staff photograph, Ben amongst it,

and a charred trophy.

Ben starts putting material relevent to his inquiries

into a large brown envelope.

Johan enters kitchen with a large envelope and hands it

to his father.

Ben examines the unstamped envelope with his address,

with curiosity then opens it.

The contents is Wellington's affidavit.

He looks inside the envelope, expecting a personal note.

There's none.

INT. JOHAN'S BEDROOM - DAY

Johan is packing his sport kit and few clothes into a

bag.

EXT. BEN'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - DAY

Ben and Johan are walking towards the entrance, Johan

wheeling his bike. Ben hugs his son.

CONTINUED:

Johan gets on the bike and rides out.

INT. BEN'S KITCHEN - DAY

Ben is pouring coffee. He looks tired and tensed. The

PHONE RINGS in the living room. He hurries to answer it.

Who knows, could be Melanie from the airport!

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Ben picks up the phone.    A menacing male voice says:

Ben replaces the receiver obviously shaken.     He becomes

aware of FOOTSTEPS approaching the kitchen.     Ben is

terrified.

A KNOCK at the door and the door swings open:     it's

Stanley.

Stanley walks out, glances at the devastated study. He

reenters the kitchen and slams on a chair. He takes a

packet of "Lucky Strike" from his pocket and offers it

to Ben

CONTINUED:

Stanley lights a cigarette and surveys the table. He

picks up the half-burnt Picasso book, gives it a brief

glance, and tosses it back on the table and starts to

chuckle.

Ben walks up to him puts his hand on his shoulder.

There's an understanding trace of a smile on his face.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Ben sitting in a cafe smoking his pipe.   A waiter serves

him a glass of beer, for which he pays.

EXT. JOHANNESBURG STREET - DAY

It's raining. Stanley driving in the rain on the same

road as Johan.

EXT. CAFE - PASSENGERS' POV FROM PARKED CAR - DAY

Suzette's sports car pulls up outside the cafe where Ben

is waiting.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Ben rises as Suzette joins him at his table.   They kiss

and she sits opposite him.

CONTINUED:

Without taking his eyes off her, he takes a brown envelope

from a chair and pushes it slowly towards the uncomfor-

table Suzette.

She picks up the envelope.

Suzette awkwardly kisses him on the cheek.

Suzette looks at him for a moment and hurries to her car.

As Suzette leaves, Ben turns back into the room, his

eyes glassy with tears.

EXT. STREET CAFE - DAY

Suzette gets into her car and drives off. The parked

car follows. The two cars turn at the next corner.

EXT. QUIET STREET

The two cars approach following each other. As the second

car overtakes, he draws Suzette's attention with his HORN

and signals her to pull up.

As she gets out of her car holding the brown envelope,

Capt. Stolz gets out of the other side.

Suzette walks over to the passenger:      Colonel Viljoen.

CONTINUED:

She hands Viljoen the envelope.

She drives off.

INT. CAPTAIN STOLZ'S CAR - DAY

Stolz gets into the car as Colonel Viljoen starts open-

ing the brown envelope.

EXT. RAND DAILY MAIL BUILDING - DAY

Stanley is parked near the building. He's drumming on

the steering wheel to the rhythm of AFRICAN MUSIC from

his car RADIO.

INT. STOLZ'S CAR - DAY

Viljoen has just finished opening the brown envelope.

He pulls out the half-burnt Picasso book and Captain

Stolz's card which he gave to Ben. On the card is

written:

CONTINUED:

EXT. RAND DAILY MAIL BUILDING - DAY

Johan hurries out of the building and is about to get on

his bike. His attention is drawn by Stanley's familiar

HOOTER.

Johan turns, sees Stanley, and with a grin makes thumbs-

up sign which happy Stanley returns with his large thumb.

Johan cycles away followed by Stanley.

INT. CAFE - DAY

Ben looks at his watch. He goes to the cash desk and

pays. He walks slowly out of the cafe. Stands at the

door to find his car keys; the rain has emptied the

street. Ben turns up his collar and waits for a break

in the traffic.

EXT. STREET - DAY

Captain Stolz alone in the car.        He drives around the

corner into the cafe street.

Just then, Ben is hurrying across the road to his car.

Captain Stolz sees him, accelerates and hits Ben, hurling

him high into the air. And speeds away.

People rush to Ben's side... crowd quietly gathers.

FREEZE FRAME and...

