Dialog in parenthesis is (not spoken aloud).

NOTE ON TITLES:

GRAPHIC TITLES pop up throughout. Some are chapter titles,

others more like the explanatory arrows found in cartoons.

Sometimes the words present themselves in normal fashion. At

other times, they're loosely spaced or sharply angled or

individual words flash up one after another. i.e., titles

ought to be wilder and less uniform than I suggest on the page.

HER FACE. FLASHES . She looks gorgeous, then ordinary,

sloppy, white waitress uniform, gorgeous again, dishes stacked

in her arms, turning, looking, happy, tired. INTERCUT TITLES.

We get a sense of her: 23, smart, good attitude, proud to be on

her own and supporting herself even if the job is menial. She

moves quickly, physically, with an almost athletic grace -

What?

Right. Afternoon.

A sense of the diner too. 50's-style joint: hip, lively; a fun

pl ace full of wacko signs that tell us we're in some modestly

sized So. Cal. beach community.

rejection of a.come-on:)

Nice try, bud -

Does that ever work?

END TITLES as we FLASH FOOD IMAGES: beans/eggs/pie/burger/shake

/waffle/grilled cheese, fast flow of too much grub as words fly

HOW THEY MET

INT. "THE ORCA" RESTAURANT. DAY.

FLURRY OF MOVEMENT, WAITRESSES setting up for lunch, Slim

joking with GINNY (28, knocked around but still spirited; two

kids at home from different guys; she somehow maintains a good

attitude). Slim views Ginny as her idol: for her attitude, not

her life. Catch them in mid-conversation, Ginny slightly

offended, working-class accent:

Why not? My grandfather was a

lawyer... Plus: I have a logical

mind...

And you're only like 299 thousand

short of what you'd need for law

school.

I Piece of cake -

Piece of pie -

Piece of ass. So what would you do?

I don't know...

I'm also thinking... well ...I could

go back to school.

In what? I thought you hated -

Psychology maybe, I don't know.

I know it's not cool to say so, but

I'd like to contribute something to

society, even if - (it's just)

We contribute. We give 'em food,

energy, so they can go out and

save Western Civilization -

A bell rings, a CUSTOMER comes in, and the owner of the place,

PHIL (45, Syrian, also the cook) sticks his head between them:

Ladies, please. Am I paying you?

Not that we noticed.

Oh my God, speaking.of time -

The lunch rush is coming; they start working triple speed -

INT. "ORCA." LATER.

Ginny and Slim converge carrying dirty dishes, piling them up

for the BUSBOY, TEDDY (21, Hispanic). They haven't stopped

moving for two hours, but now they can take a breath, survey

the scene. Slim notices Ginny has a wet spot under her arm.

Ever try the rock, hey?

Excuse me?

The deodorant thing. It's salts or

something, it comes in like a...it

looks like some kinda hippie crystal.

You're saying I sweat.

Perspire, Ginny. You lightly -

(a vow to get even)

I'll remember that.

(as someone comes in)

Your turn, I'm sweatin' too much.

Slim gives her a look, grabs a menu, goes over to where the new

customer, whom we will call for the moment OUR HERO, is seated.

When she reaches his booth, she notices he's got a book and a

long-stemmed red rose. She hands him a menu -

Waiting for somebody?

He shakes his head. She can't help noticing he's very

handsome.

SLIM (CONT.

Something to drink?

Just water, thanks.

I'll give you a minute to look over -

That's okay. I was in yesterday...

(reads her nametag)

Slim.

She nods, slightly uncomfortable. He hands her his menu.

What's your real name?

No.

Hmm. I like it, but don't you think

it's kinds negative?

No, I don't tell my name.

Okay. Coke and a turkey burger,

coleslaw no fries, couple extra

slices tomato. I write books.

Oh.

You read books?

She kind of half-nods half-shrugs.

OUR HERO (CONT.)

What're you reading now?

She stares at him...

Finneaan's Wake by James Joyce. A

friend told me it's the hardest book

in the English Language. Not the

hardest hardest, just the hardest

one it's actually possible to read,

and I figure if I can get through

that one, I can do the others.

How long you been reading it?

Six years. I'll be back with your

TB.

She leaves, goes back puts the order in, mutters to Ginny:

SLIM {CONT.}

Asshole.

What'd he say?

Wanted to find out how smart I was

so I told him I was reading the

hardest book in the English language.

He likes you.

I think he's just a dick.

Slim...he was in yesterday -

I know -

And he's back today with a rose,

he pulls you into conversation.

Honey, if you can't tell he likes

you, you need to study psychology.

Okay, so he likes me.

Do you like him?

I don't know him.

What's that got to do with it?

Slim: he is a major piece of

cake/piece of pie.

I didn't notice.

Trust me. Carrot cake. And when

a guy like that - cuter than you? -

he actually likes you -

He's cuter than me??

tinny gives her a long stare; this is obviously a favorite

Hey. Wise up, huh? No-one is

ever gonna go for you 'cause of

your looks.

That is bad news, 'cause my

personality bites.

Ginny grins. Slim writes up a check for a CUSTOMER at the

counter. When she finishes, the turkey burger is up.

She carries it to the table:

TB, coleslaw, and so forth. You

don't really write books, do you?

Nope.

I don't read Finnecan's Wake either.

I'm goin' into law. Enforcement.

She nods. This is more like what she expected.

Who's the rose for?

He shrugs.

She's busy, so she starts to go:

Enjoy your grub, huh?

She's seven feet away when she hears:

Sheturns back toward him -

He smiles, offers the rose:

You.

She smiles back-their eyes meet... a sudden utterly magical

moment. This is also the moment to.note OUR HERO should be

played by a famous actor doing a cameo. Because at this

instant the scene changes.

The man (MITCH) in the booth behind Our Hero - a man we haven't

noticed because all we've seen is the back of his head - turns

and looks at Slim. Stands. Looks down at Our Hero...

How much did you settle on?

Excuse. me?

Slim frowns, steps closer so she can overhear:

The bet. How much is it?

Our Hero has a completely blank look on his face -

MITCH (CONT.)

You and your friend. Yesterday.

Was it 200 or 500 or - ?

What're you -

He bet his friend he could get in

your pants in less than twelve

hours, starting noon today.

Our Hero rises to his feet and pushes Mitch in the chest, which

looks like a stupid move, since Mitch is bigger -

Is this your business?

(right in Mitch's face)

What are you, the morals police?

He pushes again and Mitch,s hand shoots out like a snake

striking. Grabs him by the collar. Lifts him. A frozen

moment, more violence just a breath away, and a sense of things

about to spin out of control... Our Hero's eyes are popping;

he tries to hide his fear:

Take it easy, M...man. She and

I were just having some fun -

(to our Hero)

Was it two hundred or five?

I want to know what I'm worth.

Our Hero gestures to Mitch: would you mind putting me down?

Mitch reluctantly obliges.

Our Hero does his best to recollect his dignity. Looks at

Slim. Drops a ten on the table and smirks:

The bet was two, but now that I

know you? Way too high.

A pained look flashes across Slim's face -

Our Hero starts toward the door, but Mitch steps in his path.

Speaks quietly but with authority; there's a physical power in

his words. Since he's protecting Slim, the power is

Don't come back here, buddy. Ever.

Our Hero nods nervously.

Mitch steps back 3 inches, just far enough to let our Hero

leave. Which he does with considerable relief.

Slim's leaning vs. the counter, shaken, tears in her eyes -

Mitch tugs his baseball cap, mutters as he heads for the door:

Sorry to get in your business.

No. Hey. Thank you.

He nods, keeps going.

SLIM (CONT.)

(blurts out, grateful:)

I... I can't believe you actually

said something.

(turns, shrugs)

If I'd kept my mouth shut, I'd'a

felt bad later.

Good luck, huh?

She nods.

He ambles out the door. A touch of the cowboy in him.

She shakes her head, looks at Ginny.

Ginny gestures as if to say, well?

At first Slim doesn't get it.

Ginny gestures more urgently: Come on. What're you waiting

for? She looks toward the door -

Slim follows her look. PUSH IN ON SLIM'S FACE as she tries to

work up the courage...

Just as she starts toward the door, we:

EXT. OLD PASADENA ESTATE. NIGHT.

family, Slim has a few friends. The more photos FLASH, the

more pronounced (and sad), the contrast. FLY RIGHT INTO:

Bacchanalian DANCING. French Champagne has flowed; shoes and

inhibitions were abandoned hours ago. THE CAMERA weaves

through the DANCERS to find:

Slim and Mitch, dancing close, never quite touching, every move

intense, physical, like subtle public sex. Their eyes are

locked; she runs her veil down his body, his hand lightly

touches her ass; they slow down and stand, lips a millimeter

apart but not quite kissing, the sexual tension building...

We see how crazy they are about each other, how completely

physically involved - and how much fun they have.

Watching them is Phil, with Mitch's parents, MRS. TYLER (58,

confident, at ease with her power and family money, and

likeable despite monstrous flaws) and MR. TYLER (someone Mrs.

Tyler married in a moment of cupidity).

MRS. TYLER

Mitch was kind of.. .evasive. Is her

father dead too?

Dead to her. He left when she was

two.

MRS. TYLER

Oh. Well, I'm happy to pay for the

MR. TYLER

Yes, we're very happy -

MRS, TYLER

(ignoring Mr. T.)

It's a way to build bridges... Not

that you can... (repair all the

damage) When there's such a vast

body of water...

You don't get along with your son?

She gives him a look. She's both offended by, and appreciative

of, his bluntness. Looks out at Mitch:

MRS. TYLER

He's like my father. Which means, I

guess, that he'll do very well.

He's done well to get Miss Slim.

MRS. TYLER

Yes, he has, hasn't he? He's married

down, but he's gotten value.

With her are two kids (5 and 2).

Salima's looking out at the floor: not at Slim, but at Ginny

and her dance partner. We see a thought cross her mind. She

bends down and whispers conspiratorially to the kids.

They whoop their response, run out to Ginny (who looks quite

uncomfortable in her Maid-of-Honor dress).

FIVE YEAR OLD SON

Mom! Mom! Mom! Can we spend the

night at Phil and Salima's house?

Ginny looks over, winks at Salima, and kisses her kids:

Don't eat at their ice cream, huh?

They squeal with pleasure and run off.

Ginny turns back, resumes dancing with JOE (24, handsome in a

casual way, a good guy):

So this was during college or after?

During.

What was wrong with you?

(off his puzzled look)

I mean-why'd you and Slim break

up?

Oh. Well. I'm terrible in bed.

(lets this hang for a moment

for shock value, then:)

Plus, I don't know: we just sort

of.. . evolved into being friends.

Evolution? You were going the

wrong direction, bud.

That's kinda what .1 thought, but I

guess I was so totally pathetic -

Why am I not believing this?

Can I take you home right now?

If you've got a sense of humor.

My kids are out for the night, and...

Another thing: I live in Chicago;

women always want the possibility of

I didn't propose, huh?

I just want to have...

(looks at him...)

a brief and completely unsatisfying

sexual encounter.

Hey. I'm your guy.

She pulls him into a kiss, and...well: he's not a bad kisser...

We glide from them to Slim and Mitch, hardly moving. Suddenly:

tender and insecure and almost comic, she looks at him...

You sure,you love me?

Uh-huh...

For ever and ever?

He stops dancing. Senses the real issue beneath her questions:

You're safe with me, Slim. You're

safe, and it's okay to be happy.

We deserve it.

They kiss. Others stop to watch: how cute. Phil comes over,

waits. When they break:

I'm sorry, I gotta get up five

o'clock to buy green beans.

He slips an envelope into Mitch's hand:

In my country, it's tradition to

give money to groom. You don't

need it, but...

Slim shakes her head, touched, as:

That's very sweet -

Thanks for giving me away, okay?

You're the best substitute Dad a girl

could possibly have.

No substitute. I am real thing.

She kisses him, and he goes. They look after him.

He really loves you.

She nods, not quite picking up how odd his statement is: of

course he loves her; she nicked him to give her away.

Mitch turns her toward him and slips his hands inside the top

of her dress (so the back of his hands touch her breasts; is

this going too far?). He pulls her to him, whispers:

You gonna give me babies?

Oh yeah.

How soon?

How soon can we get out of here?

He hoists her into his arms and carries her off the floor.

Applause from the GUESTS. It's a grand romantic gesture. You

have to wonder if Mitch is just a little too good to be true...

EXT. SPANISH-STYLE HOUSE WITH GROUNDS. DAY.

Slim (4 months pregnant) stands'on the walkway leading up to a

large, simple,' beautiful house. Mitch is knocking at the door.

The man who answers the door is 62, white-haired, vigorous.

Looks like he walked out of a Viagra ad.

Hello?

Hi. We've been driving around,

and my wife has completely fallen

in love with your house.

It's great, isn't it?

We want to buy it.

The Home Owner's jaw drops as Mitch gestures toward his bulging

MITCH (CONT.)

My wife wants it for our family.

(polite but firm)

Well...we're not selling.

Sure you are.

Mitch hands him a slip of paper. Totally amiable:

That's the price. Don't worry, it's

well over-market.

(stunned, a little scared)

You... You're out of your mind.

I know. That's just it. So before

you say no again, think how miserable

one determined crazy person can make

you. Miserable today, miserable

tomorrow, miserable for every single

day until the day you sell.

We glimpse the Home Owner's will just starting to crumble...

MITCH (CONT.)

Your kids are grown, you'll be

happier in a smaller place.

MOVE OFF the Owner's face... SLOW PAN TO the window of the house

.the SENSE that time is passing... and when we reach the

window, we see SLIM inside. MOVE THROUGH the window...

INT. HOUSE. KITCHEN. DAY.

Six weeks later. She's happily putting away groceries.

Whistling to herself. What we can see of the house feels good:

the furnishings are simple, casual, friendly.

She's putting a bottle of oil up on a shelf. . .but it never

quite gets there. Her face changes. Something's happened.

The hand holding the oil lowers... the oil bottle slips through

her fingers and smashes on the floor...

Oil spreading across the floor...

She stares at it.

Claws the air, grabbing the cordless phone as she plops down on

a kitchen barstool. Starts to cry. Punches the autodialer.

It's Slim, is he there?

Water is flooding down the barstool; she's miscarried.

SLIM (CONT.)

Well, will you please just... Just

tell him I'm sorry, okay?

INT. MITCH'S OFFICE. DAY.

A central area with large offices surrounding it, GUYS IN

SUITS, GUYS IN CONSTRUCTION GEAR, ARCHITECTS, ATTRACTIVE YOUNG

WOMEN. . .all moving quickly, purposefully. TWO UNIFORMED COPS

come out of a room putting envelopes into their pockets.

Projects everywhere. Models, photos, charts and timelines:

when the concrete's going to be poured, when the inspector

comes, etc. Mitch is building mini-malls.

In the center of this activity, Mitch moves from one locus of

energy to the next: answering questions, making suggestions.

Gradually we perceive something, motion slower than the rest of

the office. Slim. Coming toward him. He sees her. Sees her

expression. She stops. He realizes:

You saw the doctor?

It's so obvious from her face that she barely needs to'say it:

I lost this one too.

B A B Y L O V E

INT. HOSPITAL. DAY.

Slim lies in bed. Very pale, a light dust of sweat. We assume

she's between contractions. Mitch's face inches from hers;

smothering her with kisses.

The Nurse brings the baby in, starts to give her to Slim -

Can I hold her?

The Nurse looks at Slim,. who nods, and gives Mitch the baby.

He kisses her head, dances with her.

Slim looks adoringly at father and daughter: the sight is

almost unbelievably sweet.

His cell phone rings. He keeps dancing, ignoring it.

After one ring, it stops.

He's kissing the baby's head over and over, just like he kissed

Slim, and staring into the infant's eyes -

She looks just like my baby

pictures.

His cell phone rings again. As if the previous call had been a

signal.

Slim looks at him as the phone keeps ringing.

With some difficulty, juggling the baby, he turns the phone

off.

But he doesn't look at Slim.

Who was that?

I don't know. Who cares? Some

construction thing, I guess.

She stares at him.

He stares at the baby.

Isn't she the most beautiful

thing you ever saw in your life?

Slim nods cautiously.

THE MOMENT YOU KNOW

EXT. HILLSIDE. DAY.

Remains of a picnic. Slim's playing with their daughter,

GRACIE, now 4. Says something and Gracie laughs. Slim laughs.

Keeps laughing, which really gets Gracie going. Mitch looks

on, tries to join in, but it's forced-and besides that:

they're not even looking at him, not inviting his laughter;

it's all between the mother and child.

So he stops trying. Just watches them. And before his eyes,

they become - for an instant - strangers. As this reaction,

and the subtle hostility it engenders, flicker across his face,

Slim looks up at him -

For one long moment they both seem to acknowledge the gulf

between them...

Then Gracie says something. Slim turns back toward her, the

"girls" are laughing again...and Mitch is not.

INT. BATHROOM/BEDROOM. NIGHT.

SHOWER STALL. Glass, opaque, streaked with water and soap so

as to give a slightly freaky aspect. Someone inside.

Slim watching. Smiles. Starts to take off her clothes.

Hey.

Hey.

Should I join you?

I'm about to get out.

(down to her panties)

Oh.

I have to go to back to work, I'm

just doing this to wake myself up.

Okay.

(starts to go)

Sorry.

Yeah. (Me too.)

She's in the bedroom now. It's underlit, full of shadows. In

scary-movie nomenclature, she's exposed, vulnerable; it feels

like someone's going to leap out and attack her at any -

Not this time. She throws on shorts and a t-shirt -

INT. HALL. NIGHT.

She looks in on Gracie, sleeping peacefully. Consoling image.

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

She's washing dishes, bored, humming to herself. The counter's

covered with take-out food containers: she didn't cook.

A noise. Pager. Not beeping, just humming slightly: she

wouldn't even hear it except it's on the tile counter.

Sounds vaguely like a vibrator. Lying there, just a few feet

from her. With Mitch's wallet and keys, his cell phone.

She looks at it. .knows she shouldn't... decides not to...

Can't resist. Dries her.hands methodically on a dishtowel.

Picks up the pager. Reads: 33.

She stares, realizing: it's code.

She looks at the cell phone. Wonders whether...

Looks toward the hall. We HEAR the shower still running...

She picks up his cell phone. Tentatively - she's not sure this

will work - she presses: RECALL 33.

The phone flashes NAME, but instead of a name there's: .

She stares at this, glances again down the hall-takes a deep

breath.. .and presses SEND.

Waits... listens nervously...

Hello there.

You just paged my husband, right?

Mitch.

Who are you, what's your name?

I'm sorry, I -

Tell me your - (name)

A rustle on the other end -

Silence.

Just your name. That's the least

you could do, don't you think?

A simple plea, one woman to another...

I'm...Darcelle.

Not only the name. Now we hear it in the accent: she's French.

Dialtone.

Slim goes into slow motion. How oddly her arm moves downward.

She looks at the phone. Blinks. Presses OFF.

Scans the room as if she's never seen it before.

One of Gracie's toys lies on the floor. Slim stares at it.

Reaches down to pick it up, but instead of the toy moving up,

her body moves down. She slumps to the floor. Sits. Stares.

WIDER ANGLE. MINUTES LATER.

Slim sitting on the floor. Frozen. Head bowed.

Mitch comes out, dressed, sees her.

Hey.

She doesn' t say anything.

He approaches her. Some instinct keeps him from speaking. He

sees she's holding his phone, the silly toy...

How can you do this to Gracie?

He doesn't say anything.

SLIM (CONT.)

Darcelle paged you. That' s where

you're going, right?

(off his silence)

Yeah. Wow. Mitch? Can you please?

Can you sit here with me?

He does.

She doesn't know where to start, how to talk about it...

She's French?

She isn't important.

No.

You're important.

Yes.

And Gracie.

She nods.

Mitch?, I can't... I couldn't stand

for this to... (destroy our lives)

I'm happy, I've really been happy,

and I don't want to - (give that up)

You won't have to. Believe me.

She's nothing, she's no-one -

You... Damn it! You said I was

safe with you!

You are, Slim. You are. I promise.

They fall into an embrace. We feel how keenly they need each

other.

INT. HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

They're hugging. Begin TIGHT on them. At first it seems like

this is the same embrace shot from a different angle. Then we

see we're in the kitchen, his briefcase is at his side; their

clothes are different.

SING A SAD SONG

We watch Slim's expression slowly change. From pleasure. To

confusion. Pain. Outrage. She whispers:

I smell her.

What?

Her perfume. Darcelle or whoever.

(intense, sad)

How many, Mitch? How many are there?

How many have there been?

What does it matter?

A stunning statement. Even more stunning because of the casual

way he says it.

MITCH (CONT.)

ID I mean what're you saying here, that

I don't deserve to get laid? Please.

I'm a man, Slim. With the

pregnancies, Gracie, you don't have

time and energy like you used to, and

I understand that, I really do. Men

and women have different needs, and

that's okay. Darcelle is willing to

take care of it, and maybe that's

better for everybody.

Including you?

He contemplates his answer...and shrugs.

No! No! No!

Calm down, Slim -

Wild, violently invading his space and assaulting his authority,

screaming at him, her face just inches from his:

I can't do this anymore! I can't!

Just take it, and take it, and take

it!? I'm not strong enough! I don't

know who would be. I love you, okay?

I love you and I'm your wife and you

can't do this! You understand me?!!!

No more! No more!

With the same speed he attacked "Our Hero" at the diner,

Mitch's hand shoots out like a snake striking. Slaps her.

A warning: stop it and stop it now.

Her face: shock. Confusion. Outrage. She raises her hand to

her cheek. Touches her skin where his fist landed...

He reads her expression and is almost amused:

What, I can't hit you?

(low, strong)

No. You can't.

He hits her again, this time with a closed fist.

Knocking her to the ground.

Stands over her like a boxer.

Sees rase flare across her face -

You want to fight? I'm a mom,

honey; it's no contest.

She's silent, but we see (very small) her reaction: Oh yeah??

MITCH {CONT.}

You have to understand, Slim.

I thought you did: make the money

here, so I set the rules, right?

It's my rules.

He waits for her response, but again she's silent.

You with me?

It's your rules.

Yeah.

She keeps her voice meek so as not to offend:

And if I don't like the rules??

If you don't "like" them?!

She nods cautiously.

MITCH {CONT.}

Come on. Life isn't onl stuff we

like. We take the good with the bad,

right? That's what life is, what

marriage is. So maybe, for you,

today is a bad day.

Tomorrow may be great.

Tomorrow may be great.

That's right.

Tomorrow will be great. (Without

you . )

He appears to miss her inference.

Yeah. Today is the price you pay

for having such a good life.

She stares at him.

I'm going out.

She says nothing.

MITCH {CONT.}

This is gonna be better, don't you

think?

She just cannot process the absurdity of this statement.

MITCH {CONT.}

I don't have to sneak around, pretend

I'm going to work. I can just say:

"I'm going to Darcelle's, I'll be

back in a few hours."

Her face is completely blank.

He bends down, gives her a kiss on the head. We feel her skin

crawl.

She watches him go.

Waits.

Hears the front door close.

She gets up, walks to the window, watches him walk toward his

car.

She turns away, looks at the room. We HEAR his car start.

She goes to the phone. Thinks.

Starts to dial-slowly, deliberately...

Shock: RAP AT THE WINDOW! He's there.

She reacts with guilt, but he doesn't look angry now. Behind

him is his idling Mercedes convertible, driver's door open...

He motions for her to open the window.

She does.

Who you calling?

Your mother.

What're you gonna tell her?

I'm supposed to bring Gracie

tomorrow. Maybe I better cancel.

I was thinking. You...you know

that I adore you, but if you ever

want...if you want out...

For a second he can't talk. He's choked up.

She watches coldly. His emotion appears real, but who cares?

MITCH (CONT.)

.I'll understand. I really will.

But there's one thing: you can't

have Gracie. She's my daughter.

Don't even think about taking her.

Slim stares at him. He adds calmly:

MITCH (CONT.)

If I see that thought even cross

your mind, I'll kill you.

There. He's said what he needs to. He walks toward his car.

She shuts the window.

Stares after him.

In an odd and defiant way, she starts to whistle. Loudly.

To herself. Almost daring him.

He keeps walking.

INT. CAR. DAY.

Emotional, impressionistic. CLOSE ON her face, almost inside

her skin: a visual symphony. The countryside behind her is out

of focus, a blur. She pulls up at a gate, punches in a code.

Drives up a long a driveway to:

EXT. PASADENA ESTATE. DAY.

Toyota (the maid's car) and a pick-up (the gardener's truck).

Slim parks near the truck.

Her hand moves to the door handle, but she can't bring herself

to open it. She sits... paralyzed, a failure.

In this prolonged pause, Mrs. Tyler bursts out of the house -

MRS. TYLER

You're late, you're late, I was

worried you wouldn't comet

(looks, realizes)

No Gracie?

Slim shakes her head.

Mrs. Tyler is clearly disappointed, but quickly covers it up:

MRS. TYLER

Well then, you and I will have a

girls' luncheon and gossip about

simply everybody!

She's about to hurtle into the gossip when Slim turns her head

and Mrs. Tyler sees (and we see for the first time) the result

of Mitch's brutality: a nasty bruise on Slim's cheek.

Mrs. Tyler's face falls as she realizes what this means.

Underneath it all, she's a warm person; she hugs Slim:

MRS. TYLER

Oh baby. Oh baby, I'm so sorry...

HOLD a moment; like a mother-daughter tableau... Her tone

stays sympathetic, not at all accusatory:

MRS. TYLER (CONT.)

What did you do? What'd you

say to him?

Slim freezes. On her sad, shocked reaction -

INT. "ORCA" DINER. KITCHEN. DAY.

Ginny in the middle of an intense rap. She and Slim are wedged

in a corner booth. The off-season lunch rush has died down...

Men are land mines. Some you trigger

the first week, others it's years in.

Problem is: you want a man man,

meaning his veins run thick with

testosterone, which is good 'cause

he can fuck your brains out but he

can also turn around, no warning,

and beat your brains out too.

I never touch Salima.

Ginny waves at him: of course not.

But the other part, first part:

I can - (do that)

Relax, Phil. Nobody's talkin' about

your dick here, okay?

Phil brings Slim an iced tea and slice of pie:

You went to cops, I hope?

(Don't be stupid.) Mitch is in

construction, Phil.

He knows every cop in the city.

Even if he didn't. My aunt? She got

a restraining order? When it was up,

this slimeball beat her into a coma.

If he wants to put her in coma,

why worry restraining order?

'Cause he's a man, Phil! He's

psychotic!

(calmly, to Slim)

You're leaving him today. Right now.

(shakes her head, trapped)

I gotta pick up Gracie at pre-school.

EXT. PRE-SCHOOL. DAY.

THREE 4-YEAR-OLD GIRLS running toward a car, squealing.

They're all blond and adorable, and it takes a moment for us to

realize none of them is Gracie.

Slim sits in her car in the pick-up line. The Four Girls get

in the Volvo station wagon in front of her.

The Volvo pulls out, and Slim moves to the front of the line.

The very hip PRE-SCHOOL DIRECTOR smiles at Slim:

Your husband got her.

What??

PRESCHOOL DIRECTOR (CONT.)

Gracie was totally psyched. I told

him he should do it more often.

Slim nods with feigned casualness and pulls away. Slight smile

frozen on her face.

EXT. HER HOME. DAY.

She pulls in. No other car there.

INT. HER HOME. DAY.

She looks around. Nothing abnormal except the quiet. As if

they've gone and are never coming back.

She digs out her cell phone, punches the first number on the

automatic dialer. Presses SEND.

Thinks. After one ring, she disconnects.

Immediately presses RECALL, then SEND.

How is my little croissant?

It's your loaf of bread.

(cheerful, no guilt)

Oh. Hi. How's it going?

Where are you?

Zoo.

Why didn't you tell me you were

going to - (pick up Gracie)

I called you at home, left messages -

He's interrupted by a LOUD SQUEAL from Gracie, followed by a

question, which he answers:

MITCH'S VOICE (CONT.)

Your Mom.

Hey Moml The elephants are peeing!

(pleased with himself for

being a good Dad)

She's a little excited.

When are you coming home?

INT. DINING ROOM. NIGHT.

Dinner. It's scary that Mitch will have this conversation in

front of Gracie, who's playing at their feet:

It made me nervous when I

couldn't reach you.

Slim shrugs.

He stares at her. Smiles. His voice so soft and calm:

MITCH {CONT.}

Do you have any idea how bad

things can get?

Educate me.

(embarrassed to say it)

Slim. I'm a determined person. I

was determined to have you, and I

did. This house...the company...I

am, and always will be, a person who

gets what he wants. You can either

share in my success or leave us

(meaning him and Gracie)

right now. Which way you wanna go?

Beat.

I want to be happy.

He's not sure of her subtext, but he's willing to give her the

benefit of the doubt :

Good.

With a sudden shock, Slim sees Gracie staring at Mitch: the

girl has picked up on his tone.

Slim glances at Mitch to see if he notices Gracie's expression.

He doesn't.

Slim looks back at Gracie: still staring at Mitch. If she

already senses what's happening, how long before she's affected

by it? How long before she sees Mitch become violent?

Slim's jaw tightens slightly; her resolve grows stronger.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM. NIGHT.

Mitch asleep, Slim awake, listening. His breathing deep,

rhythmic, slight hint of a snore.

In the distance, a DOVE coos.

She looks at her clock: 2:15.

She eases out of bed.

Goes into the bathroom. We hear the sound of her peeing.

INT. BATHROOM.

She's no peeing. A BOTTLE is propped up, running water into

the toilet as Slim gets dressed. Quickly, silently.

INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT.

She leans out the bathroom doorway, sees: he's still asleep.

She moves quickly, bathroom to hall.

INT. GRACIE'S ROOM. NIGHT.

Gracie's fast asleep. Slim lifts her up, piles her prized

teddy bear on top.

INT. HALL. NIGHT.

Slim carries Gracie toward the entrance. We MOVE with her.

She's silent, terrified. Glances over her shoulder -

No one there.

She keeps walking. The eerie sense of a house that's awake

rather than asleep. The almost imperceptible but anxiety-

provoking SWOOSH of her footsteps... EXTEND the suspense as

long as we possibly can...

She reaches the front door.

Waits to make sure all is quiet.

It is.

She turns, looks back down the hall.

Empty.

Reaches toward the doorknob... hand closer, closer... she starts

to turn it -

EXT. SLIM'S HOUSE. NIGHT.

Ginny, Phil, and Teddy are clustered under a tree, staring at

the house. Waiting. Their VAN is parked down the road.

We expect the front door to open any instant.

It doesn't.

They wait. Casually. Not knowing where Slim was.

But we know. Did something go wrong? Slim was right at the

door.

In a casual way, her rescuers start to wonder.

Maybe she didn't hear the signal.

She heard it.

No. Teddy's right. She could still

be asleep -

She's not asleep, okay? She's coming

out any second.

Phil nods.

They wait.

She does not come out.

Ginny shakes her head, looks at her watch.

Do it again.

Teddy nods. Cups his hands, coos like a dove...

They wait again.

Beat.

INT. HOUSE. NIGHT.

Slim still frozen in exactly the same spot. Still carrying

Gracie, still with her hand on the knob. Listening. Turning

her head this way-that way. She hears the COOING DOVE NOISE

come again from outside.

That settles it. She pulls the door -

MITCH FLYING AT HER -

Grabs her, catches her, catches Gracie, pulling Slim's hair

hard, leading her away from the door -

EXT. HOUSE. NIGHT.

The three rescuers still wait.

Frozen.

Phil shakes his head. We see a baseball bat in his hands.

We better go in.

It'd be crazy to wake him. If

anything's wrong, she'll flick

the lights. .Right?

Phil nods skeptically, and Ginny herself doesn't seem so sure.

They look at the house-and wait. . .and wait... We want to

scream: "GO IN! GO! SAVE HER!"

Suddenly something. Subtle. Was that A SOUND from inside???

They go on alert. . .step forward... listen more closely...

But hear nothing unusual.

Phil. looks at Ginny, shrugs -

Ginny shrugs back -

FLASH OF LIGHT, then darkness. The signal.

They run toward the house -

SCREAM. Slim. Intense horrible spit of sound, replaced by an

even more horrible silence. Deadly silence. CLOSE ON GINNY as

they run: as if we've lost Slim and Ginny's.our new

protagonist. As we near the house, we realize: it's not

silence. There are sounds from inside: almost inaudible THUDS.

Sound of a beating. On Ginny's horrified reaction -

Baseball bat. Phil smashes a window.

They climb through the hole into the house -

INT. HOUSE. NIGHT.

Silence. They move quickly, carefully toward the living room;

it's very dark, we can hardly -

Another step and you're dead.

Mitch emerges from darkness. Light glints off his pistol.

Thirty feet behind him: Gracie's sleeping on the couch.

Mitch moves and they stare in horror. Lying at his feet is

Slim's body..

Pain springs from Ginny's throat, she rushes to Slim -

Mitch rams the gun into her head:

Didn't you hear me?i

Ginny feels Slim's pulse, says to Phil:

She's alive -

Unless you go, your brains'11 be

on imy rug i

Sir. We are three people. If you

kill us all, you will go sure to

electric chair.

I could give a shit.

Slim makes a SOUND as Ginny strokes her head...

Mitch FIRES the gun into the wall over Ginny's head. Muffled

sound: silencer. But he has everyone's attention now:

MITCH (CONT.)

This is your last chance.

We are happy to leave, Sir: with

Miss Slim and Gracie.

Ginny's helping Slim to her knees.

PHIL (CONT.)

And make no mistakes. If you keep

them here, we will go to police,

who will arrest you with pleasure.

Mitch stares at Phil. Walks to him. Is he going to hit him?

Shoot him? Mitch leans in, gun to Phil's head, and whispers:

I don't want to say this in front

of the group, but you're just a

rug-head, nobody'll believe you.

You go to the cops, it's her word

against mine. They'll find drugs

in her bureau...

(before Phil can laugh)

Or her car, whatever.

Trust me on that.

(casual, confident)

I'll have custody of Gracie by the

end of the week.

And if we take them away, you will

shoot all four of us??

That's right.

Then we die young.

The others are uncertain, but Phil helps Slim up; Teddy joins

him. Ginny tentatively follows his lead and picks up Gracie..

(This is no good.) You're

humiliating him.

What?

(a little louder)

He'll come after me and kill me.

Mitch overhears this, smiles.

You hear that? That's why she

loves me.

(off their horrified looks)

Nobody cares like I do.

The others stare at him in astonishment, but continue toward

the door. Mitch leans toward Slim, whispers:

See you soon.

INT. VAN. NIGHT.

Gracie awake now in Slim's arms: staring, confused. Gentle

rocking of the van. The others barely visible, like shadows.

CHECK, PLEASE

INT. AIRPLANE. DAY.

Gracie asleep, Slim holding her. Blinds down, movie playing.

Despite Gracie's age, the angle and soft lighting make this

resemble a Madonna and child...

EXT. NAVY PIER (CHICAGO). EVENING.

Open air market: shops, stalls; yuppie heaven. Slim carries

Gracie on her shoulders. They're with Jog (her old boyfriend,

from the wedding). Horsing around, having a good time, Gracie

eating a pastry. They stop and look out at Lake Michigan.

Wow ... whattaya think, Toots?

It's a big ocean!

Well. It's only a lake, but we

like it.

(nods, stares out...

Can we stay here a while?

INT. JOE'S CAR. NIGHT.

They're driving along, suddenly Joe says -

Coming up, whattaya say?!

Bobbing for apples!

Slim (front seat) and Gracie (back) both drop their heads so

Joe turns the corner, presses a garage door opener, and drives

into the basement garage of a nice-looking 4-plex.

INT. JOE'S 4-PLEX. NIGHT.

They come in from the garage, throw off their coats. All the

curtains in the apartment are drawn.

Is there anybody who likes ice cream?

Gracie whoops -

The doorbell rings -

Slim and Joe freeze -

Slim whips her hand over Gracie's mouth -

Gracie looks horrified: why are you covering my -

Slim puts her finger to her mouth: shhh.

She takes Gracie's hand; they scurry out of sight -

Joe hurries to the stereo, puts it on. Music to cover Gracie's

"whoop . "

He goes to the door, looks through the peep hole.

Sees a LARGE MAN IN A SUIT.

Yes?

FIRST FBI MAN

FBI. Can we talk?

He holds up an I.D. Not readable through the peep hole.

Go ahead.

FIRST FBI MAN

Would you mind opening up?

Joe glances over his shoulder: no sign of them. He opens the

door, but not far enough to let the man in. Behind the large

man are TWO OTHER MEN IN SUITS.

FIRST FBI MAN

We're investigating a kidnapping;

we'd like to look around.

You got a search warrant?

FIRST FBI MAN

Oh, we got a warrant all right.

He slaps a paper and pushes past Joe; the other men follow...

Can I she the warrant?

First FBI Man ignores this.

JOE (CONT.)

Who're you looking for?

The FBI Man gives him a sarcastic glance.

JOE (CONT.)

A mother taking her own child isn't

kidnapping. I don't think you're

FBI at all.

This elicits no response. Joe moves to where he can see the

other two guys. Looks down the hall toward:

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

SECOND FBI MAN searching the pantry, looking around.

He opens the door to the garage and vanishes -

INT. BEDROOM. NIGHT.

THIRD FBI MAN looks under the bed, in the closets... yanks

clothes aside. At any moment we expect him to find them...

INT. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT.

Mister: unless you leave right now,

I'm calling the police.

FIRST FBI MAN

Oh...jeez...that's a scary thought.

Joe picks up the phone -

First FBI Man slams it down.

FIRST FBI MAN

I marri a cop, okay? I'm not in

the mood.

Joe accepts this. . .but only for the moment.

INT. GARAGE. NIGHT.

Second FBI Man looks in the car, under the car... isn't this the

logical place for them to hide???

INT. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT.

Third FBI Man returns from the bedroom emptyhanded, starts to

search the living room:

THIRD FBI MAN

I'll look around here?

INT. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

The Second FBI Man returns from the garage, starts to search...

We're scared with every cupboard he opens that he'll find them.

INT. LIVING ROOM. NIGHT.

Third FBI Man searches the room.

SUDDENLY we go to SLIM'S POV...she and Gracie are in a cabinet,

looking out through a narrow horizontal slit. Watching the

Third FBI Man makes his way methodically in their direction.

First FBI Man stands over Joe, keeping him silent.

Joe watches the Third FBI Man search the room...

And then Joe blinks. Moves his eyes, and looks right in Slim's

direction. He realizes where they must be hiding.

The Third FBI Man's getting closer and closer to them...

Joe realizes he has to do something. Abruptly Joe stands:

That's enough.

You hear me? It's time to go. Now.

(off First FBI's. shocked look)

I know who you are, okay? I know who

hired you.

First FBI Man whirls. Suddenly he's got a knife in his hand.

Definitely NOT FBI. Putting the. knife to Joe's throat:

"FIRST FBI MAN"

Yeah? You know what it feels like

to have a knife hit your carotid?

(trying not to move)

No.

Inside the cabinet, Gracie gasps. Slim puts a hand over her

mouth. But Slim herself has to fight the impulse to burst out

of there to save Joe -

"FIRST FBI MAN"

You know what it's like to bleed

out in less than two minutes?

No.

"THIRD FBI MAN"

(stopping his search)

Oh please, John Boy. Not the shiv

"FIRST FBI MAN"

I'm just going to cut him a little -

Slim's eyes bulge -

"THIRD FBI MAN"

You are not going to cut him!

"FIRST FBI MAN"

I sure as hell am!

Slim's on the verge of bursting out when "Second FBI" enters:

"SECOND FBI MAN"

John Boy, this is not listed on the

program. Come on, they're not here;

let's ride.

"FIRST FBI MAN"

Can't I just - (cut him a little}

No! No slice and dice!

They head for the door.

As he goes, "First FBI Man" (a.k.a. John Boy) runs his knife

along the couch, spilling out its contents...

.passes the tv set and stabs the tube...

.runs his knife along the wall, making a vicious scary mark.

And they vanish. We hear the door SLAM.

The horizontal band through which Slim was looking widens -

The cabinet door falls open, Slim and Gracie come out.

Gracie's crying. Slim hugs her, says to Joe:

Jesus, are you okay?

I guess.

(feels his neck)

I needed a shave, anyway.

The phone rings.

They look at it. It can't be who they think it is...

it rings again. Joe goes to it. Hesitates. Answers:

Hello?

This is Mitch Tyler, Joe.

Hello, yes, how are you?

Joe points at phone: "It's him." He nods toward Gracie,

indicating Slim should take her into the next room. Slim does.

(calm, friendly)

I assume Slim's called you.

Joe thinks for a split second, then:

Of course.

Will you give her a message?

(off his silence)

If she calls again, I mean.

Slim and Gracie are in the next room, but Slim's looking

through the door back at Joe.

I don't know. I'm on her side

here, not yours.

Her side? Come on, Joe, you're a

smart person. Let me say two words,

okay? "Lug nuts." You don't want to

worry they're loose every time you

get in your car. And how 'bout the

windows to your apartment: are they

still locked? A person could go

crazy thinking about stuff like that.

Goodbye, Mitch.

Tell her to call her friends.

Joe hangs up. Slim comes back out.

Wow. Charming.

He scare you?

Joe shakes his head - more at Mitch than in answer to her

question.

SLIM {CONT.}

I shouldn't be here -

Sure you should -

I'm dangerous to know right now.

(calm, forceful)

Slim. You can be here anytime.

She nods. They both know what he's saying: if he's willing to

take this kind of risk, he's either a very good friend (which

he is) or he's still in love with her (which he is, also).

JOE (CONT.)

Oh. He said you should call your

friends.

At the restaurant?

MOMENTS LATER.

Slim on the phone, listening as the phone rings. And again,

again. Joe watching her, concerned. Finally:

Awright already! Orcal

Hey. Gin. You okay?

We had to clear the customers out,

some ridiculous bomb threat -

What?

INT. "ORCA" RESTAURANT. NIGHT.

Ginny on the cordless; Phil working nearby -

Yeah, right during dinner. Like

anybody's gonna bomb a diner in

Carpenteria.

What about you and Phil, did you -

You know Phil. He won't leave his

ship. We're doin' cleanup.

Get out.

What?

I got a bad feeling, Gin.

You got more than a bad feeling, hon.

You got a bad husband.

I know! That's what I'm saying! Get

Phil and get out of there! Nowt

All right, all right, take it easy -

Let's go -

The police are -

(heading out the door)

Screw the police, we're outta here.

Run, okay?t Ginny?! Runt

EXT. "ORCA." NIGHT.

They step out. The restaurant is at the end of a long pier.

Ginny turns skeptically to the overweight Phil -

Can you run?

Like Michael Jackson!

As they sprint, sort of, toward the boardwalk:

It's Michael Johnson, Phil.

I know. But I run like Michael

Jackson.

And he kind of does: arms flailing, not quite connected to his

body. Just as when we're enjoying this comic sight -

EXPLOSION behind them -

They're thrown TOWARD CAMERA -

Debris flying everywhere -

They lie on the. ground. Not moving. Are they dead or just

stunned? Slowly they raise their heads. Blink.

Look back at the restaurant:

Starting to go up in flames.

INT. JOE'S APARTMENT. NIGHT.

Slim holding her phone. Peculiar expression on her face.

The line went dead.

Joe stares at her, concerned.

She presses redial, and we hear THE PHONE start to ring...

She- goes to the window, parts the curtain: OUTSIDE in the

street, the FBI MEN sit in their car -

No answer on the phone. Slim looks at Joe and shakes her head:

this isn't good.

EXT. CITY STREET. DAY.

Slim walking a crowded street, carrying Gracie; TransAmerica

Pyramid in the b.g. SAN FRANCISCO. Slim goes down an alley

behind a converted warehouse, enters a basement garage.

INT. OFFICE LOFT. DAY.

One floor, lots of windows, lots of ATTRACTIVE young people in

jeans working on lots of different projects. Sign on the wall

says: V.C.V.C. Viet Cong Venture Capital. A BLOND GIRL, 24,

nudges JUPITER SLAKOWSKI (52, ponytail, handsome, confident):

Hey Jupe. Girl here says she's

your daughter.

Jupiter gives Slim and Gracie a skeptical look.

I know you don't want to see me or

know about me, but I am desperate,

I had nowhere else to go...I need

your belg!

(off his blank look)

You want me dead?

He shrugs affably and leads her into his office -

It's a good gig. To claim I'm your

father? What year were you born?

You are my Dad, Jupiter. When Mom

died, I wrote you, you didn't answer.

I didn't have enough money to bury

her, that was really fun.

Don't look at me, I didn't kill her.

No, you had help.

That's a stupid thing to say. What

do you want, money?.

I thought you should meet your

granddaughter.

(perfunctory, to Gracie)

Hi.

Gracie looks at him skeptically, nods.

And yes, we need money. To survive.

Look sweetheart. From '68 to like '72,

I had maybe 5 kids. Different women.

It was like a joke to me.

It's like a joke to me too.

You're the third to show up here with a

hand out. I give all of you the same

thing.

(taking it from his wallet)

Six bucks. Enough for a sandwich.

For you, it's' twelve, you can buy

the kid a sandwich too.

(stunned...}

Well. Now I know.

Yeah.

Used to be if I did something nasty,

my temper got the better of me?, I'd

wonder where the hell it came from.

Thanks for clearing that up.

No problem.

She goes, leaving the $12 on the table. He pockets it.

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO ALLEY. DAY.

Slim stands behind Jupiter's building. In the shadows. Still

carrying Gracie. It's only after we hear Gracie -

Don't cry, Mom. Please don't cry.

- that we realize Slim is crying.

GRACIE (CONT.)

You have mtg.

Beat.

EXT. TRAIN STATION. SANTA BARBARA. NIGHT.

Slim and Gracie climb off the train and are immediately

shepherded away by TWO SWARTHY MEN in Hawaiian shirts -

Wait. Wait. What're you...?

Who're you...?

Mommy?

One of the Swarthy Men speaks to Slim, but in the flurry, we

can't hear it. She looks relieved, turns to Gracie -

- but before Slim can speak, their bags are thrown in the trunk

of a car and they're pushed into the back seat -

The car speeds off, whips into a left-hand turn -

EXT. SANTA BARBARA. ANOTHER STREET. NIGHT.

Now the car makes a right-hand turn, and a TRUCK pulls out,

blocking traffic so no one can follow them -

INT. CAR. NIGHT.

Slim looks out the back, sees the Truck's maneuver.

Turns to face forward again.

Tries to meet the Driver's eyes.

Hello? Where are we going?

The Driver answers her in a Middle-Eastern language.

Gracie looks alarmed.

It's okay, Sweetheart, they're

friends of Phil's. (I think.)

EXT. MOTEL IN THE WOODS. NIGHT.

Gracie plays as Slim talks to Ginny and Phil. The car's parked

below. Phil gestures toward the Driver, who'e standing guard.

.so secret we don't even know who

this man is or where he takes you.

Slim nods.

You're not afraid to help me?

In my country people bleed their

enemies to death out of their

genitals. A fire? This is for

roasting lamb.

No letters, Slim, but you can call

Must be very short.

Slim nods. Phil ceremonially hands her a thin envelope. She

looks inside... and clearly finds money -

No. Phil, wait a minute, I -

I have insurance from fire -

I know, but -

I will not discus, okay?

We are family!

She nods. Gratefully. Ginny takes her hand. Beat.

What about the police? The fire.

Do they -

Mr. Mitch - of course - he has

beautiful alibi.

Slim nods again. Looks at Ginny...who's been working up to:

You know, I keep having a bad idea.

The first time he hit you, we saw

your bruises. Second time, he beat

you unconscious. The next time?

Well. If you should fight back,

defend yourself, and he dies? Who'd

convict you? Who'd prosecute?

This is American law??l

I called my cousin, he's some shit-

for-brains lawyer over in Tarzana,

he says it's 2-1 she'd walk: self-

defense, justifiable homicide.

2? That's good on a race-horse,

Gin, but for Gracie?, to lose both

parents? Besides, this is me, i

couldn't kill anybodyl

We're talking about Mitch here.

Even so. I'm not that kind of

person, okay?

Ginny nods reluctantly. She's not sure the subject is closed.

FLASHES (LIKE THE CREDIT SEQUENCE)

Yes, I lost my birth certificate -

color and she wears glasses. The name is Erin Shleeter,.

INT. LARGE DRAB HOUSE. DAY.

"Erin" & Gracie being led by MUSTAPHA (40) past QUASI-HOMELESS

ARABS;, finally ending in a corner of a large room where two

small mattresses lie on the floor. Somewhere in Colorado.

I'm sorry, this is the best we can -

SLIM!"ERIN"

It's fine, thanks.

Mustapha shrugs apologetically, leaves. Gracie whispers:

Mom...who are all those people?

They're kind of...friends of Phil's.

(stares at her mother)

They're strangers.

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. BACK ROOM. DAY.

Mustapha working at one desk, "Erin" at another. Gracie on the

floor, coloring. Bored. Prompts a look from "Erin" -

Look. I have to find the right

place and get you admitted, okay?

INT. DRAB HOUSE. NIGHT.

15 people being served from a large pot. "Erin" and Gracie

each get a good portion of something that looks quite unusual.

Thank you.

Thank you.

(looks at it, whispers)

What j it?

"ERIN."

Food.

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. DAY.

"Erin" works at her desk. Gracie shoots paper basketballs- into

the wastebasket.. stops as Mustapha enters. He gives "Erin" an

open FedEx pack.

FedEx is like underground railroad.

"Erin" is stunned. She looks inside the package, finds another

FedEx pack. Opens that.

Inside it is a wrapped present and note. She reads:

"Dear Daughter - (CONT.)

INT. JUPITER'S OFFICE. DAY.

Jupiter's at his desk as the THREE "FBI MEN" are shown in. He

says something gracious to them.

For. a moment they don't respond. Then one of them speaks.

Whatever he's saying produces a subtle but profound change on

Jupiter's features.

JUPITER'S VOICE (CONT.)

Yesterday three men threatened to kill

me if I helped you in any way.

Fortunately for you, this aroused my

interest. (CONT.)

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. DAY.

"Erin" opens the present and finds: Cash. Fifties. Probably a

couple thousand dollars. She fights the impulse to cry.

JUPITER'S VOICE (CONT.)

I'm sending this via your former boss.

If you get it and need more, leave

word at my office.

EXT./INT. SMALL PRETTY HOUSE. DAY.

What do you think, you like this

place?

Why, are we moving again?

No, we just - (got here)

Good. 'Cause I am sick and

tired to death of movingi

Me too. So here's the deal. Try to

remember,. while we're here, to call

me Mom or Erin, but not Slim, okay?

I never call you Slim.

I know, but...

I don't think you are that slim.

Thanks a lot.

Do I get a new name too?

I guess. If you want one...

Gracie stares at her blankly.

I have a crood idea .

EXT. PRE-SCHOOL. DAY.

"Erin" approaches BETTY, Director of the Pre-School:

Excuse me, Betty? Hi, I'm Erin

Shleeter, I called you -

Oh, hi -

This is my daughter.

Look at you!, you're so...(cute)

What's your name?

Queen Elizabeth.

Betty blinks. "Erin" shrugs: that's my daughter!

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. BATHROOM. DAY.

Scissors. "Erin" cutting her hair in some odd primitive way

that further changes her look. For the worse.

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. BACK ROOM. DAY.

T.T. (the African-American woman who works there) watches

"Erin" exit the bathroom and put away the scissors. Not a

T.T.

Whatever you're goin' for, girl:

you're really getting there.

INT. CAR. MORNING.

"Erin" driving, nervous. Gracie/"Queen E."" is turned around in

her seat, looking out the back -

GRACIE/"QUEEN ELIZABETH"

He is not -

Yes, he is -

GRACIE/""QUEEN ELIZABETH"

Mom, he turned.

He turned?

(looks in rear view)

Oh my God, you're right. He turned.

Wells (That's better.)

That's what I've been saying. There

are other cars, okay? Just 'cause

somebody's behind you doesn't mean -

(stops ...blinks...)

Mom? You just drove past my school.

EXT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. EVENING.

"Erin" and "Queen E." leaving work, bickering:

I don't know, I can cook something.

Or we can go to McDonalds.

We can't afford to eat out every

night. I can cook, Tootster.

"Queen E." rolls her eyes as:

Hi.

(off her blank look)

I'm Brad Zall, I just rented a car

from you guys.

"Erin" stares at him. An insane moment of sustained paranoia.

Who is this guy,. really? What does he want?

Finally she realizes a normal response is required. Kind of a

Is the vehicle all right?

Yeah, it's fine. I was just thinking

that if you're not doing anything,

maybe I could buy you - and the kid

of course -

Who are you?! Who sent you?! You

want a date?! You are totally out of

your mind if you think I'm gonna have

even this conversation we're having

right now! I'm not, okay?! We are

not talking! Get it?!

Yeah, I get it.

And good luck with your psychotherapy.

He walks away. She stares after him. Again "Queen E." is

looking at her mother in astonishment.

What? You're thinking I over-

reacted? Huh? Just a little?

INT. "ERIN'S" TAURUS. DAY.

"Erin" driving too fast. Her slight recklessness adds an

undercurrent of anxiety to the scene. She's also eating

doughnuts, sharing a box with her daughter.

They pass a gas station. "Queen E." sees pay phones.

You know Mom? I like the doughnuts

and all, but the driving...

Don't get on my case.

Every Sunday, to drive for 55 hours?

In exasperation, "Erin" gestures with both hands - taking them

off the wheel. Nothing bad happens, but again her recklessness

makes us nervous -

It's not 55 -

Just to reach some phone booth?!

Hey can I call Daddy this time?!

Please??? Please please please...

"Erin" shakes her head.

"Queen E." gives her a mournful look.

Don't beg. You look like a dog.

EXT. COUNTRY STORE. DAY.

"Erin" is on the phone, "Queen E." at her side.

Mrs. Tyler? It's Slim.

MRS. TYLER'S VOICE

Oh thank God. Listen. Mitch is

planning some legal action, you're

depriving him of his rights as a

father, some nonsense like that:

you better have Gracie call him.

Oh that's good news -

MRS. TYLER'S VOICE

I thought you'd want to know -

I do, thanks, I appreciate it.

Listen: we have to keep it short

again or he might trace it, so I

better put her on -

(hands phone to:)

Hi Grandma! I have a new name!

(as "Erin" frowns...)

Yeah! You wanna hear it?

"Erin" pushes down the lever, ending the call, mutters:

Sorry, your Majesty. Remember:

names're secret.

"Queen E." nods. Puts on her mournful look...

That is the most pitiful expression

I've ever seen.

CLOSE ON "QUEEN ELIZABETH"

She listens, cradling the phone. "Erin" watches her daughter's

face light up:

Hi Daddy! We're having a great

vacation!

I don't know. At a phone booth

somewheres.

"Erin" shakes her head, takes the receiver away:

No questions, okay?, or it ends now.

(hands phone back to

"Queen E.":)

Just tell him you love him and say

goodbye, okay?

"Queen E." nods, puts the receiver to her ear. Even "Erin" can

hear Mitch yelling... "Queen E."'s face changes. Mitch keeps

shouting angrily.

Goodbye Daddy.

She did not say "I love you." She hands "Erin" the receiver.

"Erin" hangs it up.

I am really really sad.

"Erin" nods, angry at herself:

Sorry, kid. My mistake.

INT. FANCY OFFICE. DAY.

Mitch hands up his cordless phone, picks up another line.

I know mine was (too) short, but

she made other calls, right?

Ginny?, or my mother?

He crosses to a map with colored pins. Sticks in another one -

MITCH (CONT.)

Good. Good. Keep it up.

(hangs up, goes to intercom:)

Isn't he here yet?

Great, yeah, send him in.

To our shock, the person who enters is the man previously known

as "Our Hero." ROBBIE (real name) and Mitch are good buddies:

Hey.

Hey.

Look, will you tell what's his face,

Lieutenant Harris: I bought his

Miata, I paid for his rec room, can

he please keep his patrolmen from

hassling my guys?

You got me on a Sunday, for that?

I could be out shaking down wetbacks.

I didn't bring you for that.

Her?

(off Mitch' s nod)

I told you not to be an asshole.

Yeah, but coming from you...

We had rules, okay? The rescue routine

- like in the diner? It always worked,

'cause we said: one time only. You

come, then you go. But you end up

marrying the bitchl

I know where she is, Robbie.

More or less.

That's a blessing.

I need you to find her. Take your

(as Robbie rolls his eyes)

I'll make it worth your while, and

I'll fix it with the department -

Thanks. Thanks a lot.

Who else'm I gonna get? Huh?

She stole my fucking childl

Okay, okay. Ease it up.

(walks to map, pins)

She made calls from these places -

She's that stupid? You traced her?

She's not stupid, okay? It says on

the Net it takes 84 seconds to trace

a call; she keeps hers well under.

Of course-your equipment is faster.

You're welcome, you're welcome...

(drawing on map)

Okay: say she lives within a two hour

radius...

INT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. KITCHEN. NIGHT.

"Erin" and "Queen E." eating pasta. The sauce is unusual

colors, grey and orange. "Queen E." pokes politely at her

plate. "Erin" is understandably insecure about her cooking:

What do you think, is it okay?

It's okay, right?

"Queen E." nods dubiously.

"ERIN" (CONT.)

No, it's not, it's horrible.

It's not horrible, Mom.

But it's not good, is it?

Is it good?

(Good??) Mom, you tasted it.

"Erin" pushes her plate back. It's too much. in a second,

silent tears are flooding down her face.

This is not what "Queen E." wants to see. And she certainly

doesn't want to reverse roles by giving comfort. Better just

to pretend it's not happening.

Know what I think?

(tries to pull

What's that?

I think you miss Daddy.

This comment is so wacko that it's almost touching. Almost.

She feels compelled to be honest:

Daddy yells at me, Toots.

"Queen E." nods. Thinks...

Well. You miss somebody.

NOT ALL MEN ARE HEADS

INT. SANTE FE AIRPORT. DAY.

Joe gets off a plane with his carry-on luggage, goes to a bank

of pay phones, examines the numbers on the phones...

ANOTHER BANK OF PAY PHONES. MINUTES LATER.

When one of these phones rings, he picks it up -

Sorry, my plane was delayed -

EXT. ROADSIDE STAND. PAY PHONE. DAY.

"Queen E." is hitting stones with a baseball bat as "Erin"

talks on the phone:

Rent a car, make sure you're not

followed, drive to the Taos airport.

Another plane??

In Taos, go to Starbucks. Not the

main one or the one by Hagen-Dazs.

The one near the book store.

INT. SANTA FE AIRPORT. DAY.

Joe shakes his head, amused:

What is this, a treasure hunt? I'm

gonna spend the whole weekend flying

around?

I'll call Starbucks in three hours.

Don't worry, you'll be here by four.

Dialtone. He hangs up.

INT. SMALL AIRPORT. DAY.

"Erin" and "Queen E." look out the window at a small prop

plane, which is starting to unload passengers.

I tell you it's this one.

No, he's not. He's with...

She's looking at some OTHER PASSENGERS who have already entered

through another gate and are walking past them.

No, Toots. That one's from Reno.

(turns back, sees him)

There! Joel

She waves. "Queen E." waves too. Joe waves back.

But that's not what we're looking at. We're. looking at Robbie:

walking slowly toward them with the other Reno passengers.

He doesn't see "Erin", but in a moment he will. He'll turn the

dogleg corner and be right next to them...

Robbie pulls out his boarding pass. With it are old photos of

"Erin" and "Queen E.11. He shuffles past the photos, finds his

claim check. He's now only a few feet away from them...

And they're oblivious of him...

And he turns the little dogleg and looks at them -

Except they're no longer there. They've moved toward the

unloading area for Joe's gate...

And Robbie goes safely past as Joe enters the terminal, sees

them, shakes his head:

I can guarantee one thing in my

lifetime: I was not followed.

He embraces "Erin" and "Queen E."" The CAMERA looks past them

to where Robbie might be watching. He's not.

INT/EXT. THEIR TAURUS/MAIN STREET, SMALL TOWN. DAY.

"Erin" and "Queen E." are pointing out sights, passing an OLD

And there's the diner where I do

not work.

Where do you work?

"Erin" gives him a look: she's not telling. She resumes the

tour, points to an old crumbling "movie palace:"'

There's the one-plex.

(pointing again at a

The aan restaurant where you'd take

me if we were dating...

(for "Queen E.19

which we are not.

Very fast, like an old routine; we see how they play together:

No way.

Not at all.

Just friends, right Gracie?

Queen Elizabeth.

Right. Sorry, your highness.

No problem.

"Erin" pulls up in front of their house, gestures: here it is.

INT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. HALL. DAY.

Continuing the tour, they're showing him:

And this is the guest bedroom...

(CONT . )

INT. "QUEEN ELIZABETH'S" ROOM. EVENING.

He comes in, looks around. Clearly "Queen E." has painted the

walls herself : it's a "modern-art" mesa.

"ERIN" (CONT.)

.normally known as Buckingham

palace.

(nods, checks it out)

Very... colorful.

You better warn him, huh?

"Queen E." looks confused. "Erin" whispers in her daughter's

ear, and she confides in Joe:

Oh yeah. The dreams in here

get really noisy.

Joe sets his suitcase down.

I look forward to that.

EXT. PARK. DAY.

Baseball diamond. Joe pitching underhand to "Queen E." He's

using plastic balls the size of soccer balls, so it's easy for

her to hit every one.

"Erin" is running, retrieving the hits.

FREEZE FRAME as she's caught in a photograph.

The image unfreezes and is followed quickly by a series of

frozen frames, photographs of her, some wide, some tight.

REVERSE IMAGE.

The park. Mostly empty. No one taking their picture. A stand

of green bushes. HOLD on the bushes for a moment -

EXT. PARK. AN HOUR LATER.

"Queen E." is curled on a blanket taking a nap as "Erin" and

Joe finish the picnic.

You seem like you're doing great.

Yeah.

How long can you stand it?

(off her look)

I mean: not to talk to your friends

or family or have anything to do with

your real life?

(quiet, strong)

Gracie is safe.

Yeah, but what, now Mitch started

some kind of custody battle?, what

Are you Denise?

SHOCK. There he is, standing right over them, in bad clothes

and a baseball cap, dark glasses. Completely unrecognizable.

Pardon me?

You're Denise, right? Used to work

at the Pack 'N' Ship?

I'm not Denise.

Oh. Sorry, I... You look-but

you're right, your voice... (isn't)

You're not from New Zealand, are you?

Never been there.

Boy. Sorry to bother you folks.

He backs away, embarrassed. Joe stares after him warily...

What now? We call Pack 'N' Ship,

see if Denise ever - (worked there)

Because of some homeless guy? Joe:

it could be the Pack'N'Ship in

Trenton, New Jersey.

(over his protest)

One thing I learned: I can't jump

every time someone says boo.

I can't do that to her.

Joe looks at "Queen E." and nods.

EXT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. NIGHT.

Looks peaceful. But why do we need this establishing shot?

Its very existence in the narrative is menacing.

INT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. NIGHT.

Joe gets up from "Queen E. 's" bed and goes into the kitchen.

Gets some juice from the fridge, drinks it.

Looks into "Erin's" bedroom.

"Erin" is awake, "Queen E." asleep at her side. Half -whisper:

Gracie was right.

(off her look)

'Bout the dreams in there.

Yeah, mine too.

Cuddle?

INT. "ERIN'S" BEDROOM. NIGHT.

As he gets into bed:

You remember the house rules?

With Gracie here? Who can forget?

They hold hands.

Joe.

Yeah.

You ever think about what would've

happened...(if you and I had...)

Yeah.

What do you think?

Beat.

I think Gracie is truly a great kid,

and any path that doesn't include

her doesn't make any sense.

"Erin" nods. Beat.

Ginny told me about that weekend.

Of your wedding?

She nods.

She tell you how terrible I was?

Joe. This routine? It might work

on other people, but you forget:

I've actually had you -

I didn't forget -

(like a compliment's coming)

- and I'm telling you, from memory...

you are not that bad...

They both laugh. It subsides into affection...

You really go tomorrow...?

He nods.

"ERIN" (CONT.)

Couldn't you quit your job, and stay

here and play the horses or something

and become independently wealthy?

Beat.

Please kiss me, Slim. I know we're

not supposed to, it's against house

rules and all, but for me to come

all this way and feel the way I do

and for us to not even -

She kisses him -

And he kisses back.

And they stop.

Incredible self control.

Lie next to each other-hold hands again...

You're a great person, Slim.

You're a great person just like

your daughter.

She squeezes his hand.

THE CAMERA LINGERS FOR A MOMENT ON THIS SWEET IMAGE... clasped

hands...THEN PULLS SUDDENLY BACK, so we're seeing their hands

from outside, through a crack in the window. Hold.

YOU CAN RUNs s s

EXT. PRESCHOOL. DAY.

From an odd distance across the street, we watch "Erin"

dropping off "Queen E." Extend the mundane details of this

transaction... THREE DAYS LATER

INT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. DAY.

T.T. sticks her head in, to "Erin":

T.T.

I know you have a "back room" gig,

but with Sher out, four customers:

I need help here; I'm on meltdown.

EXT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. DAY.

We look. past a tree, through the windows...as "Erin" comes

warily out to the counter, looks over the customers...

INT. DOUBLE A RENT-A-CAR. COUNTER. LATER. DAY.

"Erin" working a calculator, muttering in frustration...

T.T.

Here, lemme do that.

As T.T. wrestles with the calculation, "Erin" looks up. Frowns

slightly, her eyes shift... She senses something. This

strange sensation, as if she's being watched, or...

She looks out the window, doesn't see anyone...

Glances into the back office - and notices the clock: 4:15.

(runs for door)

Oh my Godl, the Queen is out of dance

class! I'll be back in 20 -

EXT. DOUBLE "A" RENT-A-CAR. DAY.

We watch from across the street as "Erin" hurries to her

Taurus, gets in and drives away.

EXT. PRE-SCHOOL. DAY.

"Erin" in line for Pick-up. Betty the Pre-school Director

comes up to "Erin" and says casually:

Erin. I'm glad you're here.

We can't find Queen Elizabeth -

You can't find her??!

So many kids're staying for

these after-school things -

She turns, distracted, as ANOTHER TEACHER calls -

n "Erin" blinks... looks around frantically... OTHER KIDS in gym or

dance gear, but no "Queen E."...and the knowledge of what's

happened is hitting her...her eyes're dilating, breathing

becoming frantic. Betty turns back as "Erin" mutters:

I should've! ... I should've known!,

he did it before!

She rams the car in gear, rockets out of the pick-up line -

Almost hits a TEACHER and 4 YEAR OLD KID -

Slams the breaks, calls:

I'm sorry, I'm sorry, I... I...

Freaked out, frantic, she pulls to the side of the road, yanks

up her brake, grabs her cell phone. Auto-dial #2.

T.T.'S VOICE

Double "A" Rent

Did Queen Elizabeth call?!

T.T.'S VOICE

No, of course - (not)

Anyone else?!

T.T.'S VOICE

Nobody called, Erin; are you - (okay?)

"Erin" presses STOP, then Auto-dial #1, waits, looks around.

Betty staring at her like she's crazy, walking toward her car -

Hi. Leave a message.

Gracie, are you there?! Is anyone

there?! Please? Pick up!

No one picks up. Silence.

She beats the wheel in frustration... lowers her head.

For one long second, she seems completely beaten...

A KNOCK on her window -

She looks up, sees Betty.

Betty's talking, but it's as if "Erin" has gone crazy. For a

moment there's no sound, and then the sound is there but

unintelligible, and finally the words and sounds come together:

.what I've been trying to tell

you...

"Erin" nodding now, beginning to grasp the words...

BETTY (CONT.)

At the end of dance class, the teacher

lets them go hide, and for a minute no

one could find her -

"Erin" looks past Betty, sees "Queen E." in her tutu and leaps

out of her car -

Thank you, thank you, I... I'm

sorry. I'll explain later, I...

She rushes forward, wraps "Queen E." in a big, not quite

appropriate hug. "Queen E." looks at her as if to say, "This

is nice, Mom, but will you please tell me what gives?"

EXT. RENT-A-CAR. NIGHT.

From a distance, we watch "Erin" and "Queen E." trudge toward

their Taurus. The end of the day; they're tired.

INT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. KITCHEN. MIGHT.

Making meat loaf. "Erin" consults the cookbook, seems

confused, puts meat, breadcrusts, eggs, sauces, onions, etc. in

a bowl. "Queen E." mooshes them with her fingers - a

disgusting tactile job which she adores. IMPROVISE DIALOG to

make the scene utterly mundane, two "girls" having fun... The

normalness of it makes us exceedingly nervous.

INT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. NIGHT.

"Queen E." sleeping peacefully in her bed.

"Erin" also sleeping peacefully. We OBSERVE her from a slight

distance, to the left of the bed as we face it. Slowly the

CAMERA BEGINS TO MOVE. . .down the bed...to the foot ...to the

other side.. .back again on "Erin" sleeping peacefully... and

the CAMERA RISES to show Mitch seated at her side.

He seems calm and utterly content. It would be, hard to imagine

a more terrifying attitude.

INT. HER BEDROOM. DAWN.

"Erin" wakes with a start, sits up, looks around -

Everything's normal. Peaceful. No Mitch.

"Erin" shakes her head, as if clearing away a dream.

As she looks again around the room, her nostrils flare

slightly. . .as if she smells him. She rubs her nose.

Touches her wrist, and we notice something she's worn the whole

time she's been Erin: a colorful elastic bracelet, probably a

Swatch.

She gets out of bed and looks out the window -

Cold morning -

She goes toward the hall...

INT. HALL. DAY.

Moving down the hall... each open door feels like a trap ready

to spring...

She glances into "Queen Elizabeth's" room... We half expect

some sort of reaction or exclamation - "Queen E." may be gone -

but instead "Erin" keeps right on going...

Vanishes into the bathroom.

HOLD the empty hall. HEAR the sound of her peeing...

INT. BATHROOM. DAY.

From the doorway, we see her on the potty... The window over

her head is open slightly.

As she pees, she stares at the shower curtain-it rustles

slightly in the wind from the window.

She wipes herself.

Still staring at the curtain...

She stands, pulls up her pajamas...

Stares.

Yanks the shower curtain aside -

Nothing.

INT. HALL. DAY.

She goes into the kitchen.

INT. KITCHEN. DAY.

She puts on the kettle.

Drinks a little o.3 from a carton.

Walks back down the hall -

In every moment of this, the tension is excruciating...

INT. HALL. DAY.

Facing her as she comes down the hall, passing the living room

doorway.. .we wait for Mitch to leap out at her -

He doesn't.

She keeps coming, past "Queen E's -

HE JUMPS OUT OF THE DOORWAY -

" Erin" starts to scream, looks toward "Queen E." and stifles

the sound.

They wrestle. Silently. Grim pantomime. The only sounds are

GRUNTS, BANGING vs. the walls.

He's far too strong for her -

They slam against one wall, the other, CRASH to the floor -

Wanna know a secret?

Whispering to her, his hands moving to her neck...

MITCH (CONT.)

Cops need a body. Without your body,

they'll think you disappeared again.

Her hands at his hands, clawing, trying to pry them loose -

MITCH {CONT.}

Which is kind of true.

One of her hands moves-away from his hands to that Swatch or

whatever it is on her wrist -

MITCH (CONT. )

'Cause where you're going, they

will never... ever... find you.

She turns the gizmo so it points away from her face...

Toward his face...

At the last instant he realizes what she must be doing -

But it's too late. She presses a button -

Orange spray hits his face, eyes -

He screams and releases her -

She leaps up - and Sees "Queen E." standing in her doorway.

Staring, mute and horrified. How long was she watching?!

"Erin" grabs "Queen E." and runs down the hall. Mitch writhes

on the floor -

EXT. "ERIN'S" HOUSE. DAWN.

"Erin" bursts out the back door, whirls, pulls a rope -

- Causing a slab of 2-by-4 to slide over the door: primitive

locking device -

carrying "Queen E." -

Her car has a number pad on the driver's door. She punches

numbers, opens the door, puts "Queen E." in -

Pulls a key from under the mat -

Fires the car up, rockets away -

Down the block, so far back we're not even sure it means

anything, a CHEVY SUBURBAN pulls away from the curb...

EXT./INT. MALL/TAURUS DAWN.

Parked in back, near dumpsters. "Erin" jumps out of the

Taurus, runs around to the trunk, pulls out a small suitcase.

MOMENTS LATER.

"Erin" and "Queen E." pulling clothes from the suitcase,

getting dressed. A FRANTIC BLUR of pajamas and underwear and

suitcase and the last thing we expect to see:

KNOCK at the window. Robbie. "Erin" whirls, looks. For an

instant TIME SLOWS as she stares at him...

FLASHBACK TO THE DINER, HIS FACE: she recognizes him -

And realizes: he's with Mitch. Which means: Mitch was phony

from the moment she met him -

Robbie reaches for her door handle -

She rams the accelerator, leaving Robbie behind -

The car rockets forward, toward the dumpsters -

She spins the wheel; the car swerves, kisses off the dumpster -

Robbie running for his car, and now we see the Chevy Suburban,

hidden behind some nearby bushes -

The Taurus pogos over the concrete/grass divider, rockets

across the next parking lot...

Robbie jumping into his Suburban -

"Erin" half in, half out of her clothing, trying to drive,

trying to see, sticking out her arm to keep "Queen E." (not in

her seatbelt) from flying through the windshield.

Seatbelti Seatbelti Put on your -

(trying to put it on)

Then slow down so I -

I can't slow'-

Who was that guy?!

(looks in rear-view)

I don't know, some...

(sees Robbie chasing them)

Oh shit...

EXT. CITY. MORNING.

Three brief FLASHES of -"Erin" being chased out of the city.

Freaked out to drive so fast, "Queen E." screaming, etc.

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD. MORNING.

Robbie's Suburban right behind them, closer, closer... finally

slams into their Taurus, knocking them half off the road. He

pushes them off again, again, "Queen E." covering her eyes,

"Erin" coming back onto the road, fighting to keep control, and

the road narrowing more and more, down to one tight lane. This

looks like totally the wrong place to be leading someone.

Mom?

Up ahead is a one-lane covered bridge crossing over a stream.

The bridge is very narrow.

Mom, are you sure...?!

Quite sure, thank you. "Erin" guns the accelerator.

Robbie's FACE... driving, confident, full of blood lust, and

then his expression changes. Eyes widen. He realizes - shit!

too late!! - that the bridge is way too narrow for -

"Erin" Is car slides through, scraping one side

The Suburban crashes into the bridge, careens into the water -

"Queen E." looks back through the rear view mirror... looks at

her mother ...back and forth...

That was dangerous.

INT. CAR. MORNING

Different country road. Parked ahead is a `78 Oldsmobile.

"Erin" pulls in behind it.

They get out of the Taurus. Using her keys, "Erin" unlocks the

trunk of the Olds. Two large suitcases inside. "Erin" throws

their small suitcase in on top.

"Erin" reaches up under the driver's seat and pulls out a

wallet. Checks the contents: cash, credit cards.

"Queen E." pulls a red wig out of the glove compartment.

INT. OLDSMOBILE. MORNING.

They're on a lightly travelled two-lane highway. "Erin" (now a

redhead) looks in her rear-view mirror: no cars.

Okay, Toots. We can talk.

"Queen E." stares at her mutely.

"ERIN" {CONT.}

Want me to tell you what happened?

"Queen E." blinks twice, shakes her head.

"ERIN" {CONT.}

Fair enough.

One thing, though: Erin's over.

(Too bad.} I liked Erin.

Slim nods sadly: she liked Erin too.

You're not the Queen of England

anymore either.

Gracie nods fatalistically, stares out the window. Flat voice:

I'm hungry.

INT. DINER. DAY.

Gracie eating voraciously. Slim has no appetite. Their

WAITRESS comes over, notices Slim's not eating -

Everything okay here?

Thanks.

Hey there, cutie, what's your name?

Gracie looks up at her for a while.

I'm working on that one.

The waitress does a double-take and leaves. To Slim:

GRACIE {CONT.)

Maybe something normal this time.

Ann or Mary or...

(sees Slim is distracted)

Mom?

I'm thinking.

Beat.

(Yeah,) I can hear it.

CUT. TO:

EXT. COURTHOUSE. DAY.

Slim parks. As she starts to get out, she says to Gracie:

Anybody talks to you, hit the horn.

INT. COURTHOUSE. DAY.

Slim in line at a COUNTY RECORDER'S desk. The person in front

of her leaves, she steps up:

I need the best lawyer in town.

I know you can't give names, it's

against the law or whatever, but I

really need help, and I can see

you're a decent person.

She slides a paper and pencil across the desk:

SLIM (CONT.)

Please. Just a name.

INT. NICE LAWYER'S OFFICE. RECEPTION AREA. DAY.

Slim comes in, sits Gracie down and whispers:

Watch how it's done.

117 Slim goes to the Receptionist's desk:

Hi. Is Mr. Toiler with someone?

No, but he's -

I'm not a crazy person.

She walks past the Receptionist -

Wait a minute! You can't

Slim opens the big door, enters:

INT. JIM TOLLER'S OFFICE. DAY.

The moment we see JIM TOILER we know Slim's okay. The actor

playing him is one of those cranky avuncular types who pisses

and moans but always comes to the rescue and outsmarts the bad

guys. As we expect, he starts out disliking her:

I don't know where you learned

manners, young lady, but this is

not the way to get my attention.

I know, but I'm desperate.

(digging into purse)

My husband keeps trying to kill me,

and I need to talk to somebody who's

smart, okay?, smarter than me at

least.

(pulling out cash)

This is all the money I have - well,

all but twenty - it's almost 500, and

I'll give you all of it if you'll

just listen to what... (happened)...

just two minutes, okay? Please?

She's so charming and intense and discombobulated, he can't

help but give in.

LATER.

He's staring at her. Good poker player; we can tell nothing

from his expression. His voice very quiet and calm:

Pardon my French, dear, but I hope

you got pleasure from it, 'cause you

have really fucked yourself. You had

two chances to file a complaint with

the police and put his violence on

record. You ignored them. Which tells

him to keep comin' till he kills you.

Slim reacts to this.

JIM TOLLER (CONT.)

As for Gracie: his next move... he'll

initiate a custody hearing.

He...he already did.

If you don't show up, the judge'll rule

against you, you become a fugitive from

the law. If you do show, Mitch will,

as you say, portray you as a drug

addict. For all I know you are one:

you break in here, uninvited. I'd say

your husband has a good chance for

sole custody. Now if you don't mind:

(pushes the money back at her)

I'd like to go back to my work.

(stares at him in disbelief)

.That's all?

(off his silence)

You're not gonna help me?

No one can help you, lady.

She nods. Stares at him. And does not go. After a moment we

see him have a thought... hesitate... look up at her...

The custody hearing, if he pushes

for it, is just a trick.

She says nothing. Listens. Watches as:

He plucks a $20 bill from her stack of funds. Obviously he's

giving her a valuable piece of advice:

JIM TOLLER (CONT.)

It's a way to get you to a

particular place at a particular

time... so he can kill you.

He pockets the $20.

She stares at him. Blinks. Of course. He's right...-

INT. OLDSMOBILE. NIGHT.

Late. Few cars. Slim drives. Gracie curled up in the front

passenger seat. Slim glances at her. Looks back at the road.

Back at Gracie. Something building. Finally, softly:

I gotta make you a solemn

promise, Grace.

Gracie is, of course, fast asleep.

SLIM (CONT.)

Ever since you were born ... well-one

day I started to think of all the

awful things that were gonna happen.

People you'd love who'd die, or leave

you, betray you, break your heart...

.Physical injuries: broken bones or

sickness or guys who hurt you some

way... And I thought that if I could

protect you even once, from any of

those, if I could absorb any part of

that myself...

Well... Here goes.

INT. AIRPORT. DAY.

Ginny comes off a plane with her two kids. in tow, looks around,

heads for a bank of telephones... As she approaches, one of

the phones starts to ring.

Ginny looks at it with irritation, picks it up -

This is the most ridiculous thing

I've ever done.

Oh yeah? How 'bout Horace?

Ginny glances at one of her kids, evidently Horace's child.

Okay, this is the second most -

Rent a car, drive to Denver, then fly

to Reno.

You're out of your mind.

(as though flattered)

You noticed.

Dialtone.

We watch from a distance as Ginny shakes her head in disbelief,

mutters to her kids. As they trudge off, the CAMERA FOLLOWS.

INT. AIRPORT. RENTAL CAR COUNTER. DAY.

From the same distance: Ginny and kids approach the counter.

INT. AIRPORT PARKING GARAGE. RENT-A-CAR AREA. DAY.

Ginny loading luggage into the back as her kids climb in.

As Ginny slams the trunk, SOMEONE'S RIGHT THERE -

Slim.

Ginny blinks, recognizes her, hugs her:

What're you... (doing here?)

I thought we were... (driving to Reno)

I had to make sure you weren't

followed.

(re Slim's hair)

I like it.

(not so sure)

Maybe.

Hey, Graceland.

Gracie slips out from behind Slim, goes and hugs Ginny as Slim

holds up a wallet:

There's a credit card and cash. It's

on me, but make no calls home, or to

Phil. Think of it as a vacation till

the Orca reopens. Toots?

This to Gracie, who started to climb into the car. Gracie

looks at Slim and again tries to climb in - she wants }}g part

of saying goodbye - but Slim pulls her back into a hug.

Slim holds her for as long as Gracie can possibly tolerate.

When Slim is done, Gracie climbs into the car with Ginny's

kids. Slim has tears in her eyes.

Take care of her, okay? Extra ice-

cream and... and if you need to reach

me...

(hands her a cell phone)

Just don't call your friends.

Oh great. I'll call strangers.

In an emergency, I'm #1 on the auto-

dialer. Or I'll call you.

Any calls between us must run is

seconds or less. Cake?

Ass.

(re the vacation)

Enjoy it, huh?

How long?

The custody hearing's end of next

month. That's my deadline.

Deadline for what?

Slim looks at her...

WE'RE SO CLOSE WE CAN'T TELL WHAT WE'RE LOOKING AT. CAMERA

SLOWLY PULLS BACK: EYES ...SLIM'S EYES.

Intense, focussed.

You ready?

She nods. CAMERA CONTINUES BACK, we see more of her face.

Sure?

Another nod. Perspiration streaming from her pores, running

down her face. And a look we haven't seen before.

Can you lose?

She shakes her head.

Can he hurt you?

She barely dignifies the question with another shake. We're

now far enough back to see we are:

INT. GYM. DAY.

Slim in a leotard.

Even though he's bigger?

(v. quiet)

He's a lot bigger.

Even though he's stronger?

Finally see her INSTRUCTOR (6'4", 235 pounds, African-American,

0.4% body fat).

He's a lot stronger.

So if he hits you -

No way.

Say it.

It takes.twice as much energy to

swing and miss as to swing and hit.

After he misses, what do you do?

She answers him with an intense look.

He nods and moves after her. Slow, strong, powerful: predator.

She backs up. Her movements simple, graceful, economical but

athletic: they remind us of the easy way she moved around the

restaurant in the first scene...

Scattered over the mat are old-fashioned plastic SANTAS that

kids use as punching bags. He backs her toward one...

.then another. As she nears them, she slides deftly to the

side: like she has eyes in the back of her head...

He maneuvers her toward a desk-her back to it...

Rushes at her -

For a moment she seems trapped -

But as he reaches her, she slips to her left, tosses him over

the desk and onto the mat.

She moves quickly to an attacking position, standing over him.

He pats the mat beside him.

She sits.

He makes a motion and she closes her eyes.

One last thing. The hardest lesson:

we can't control the universe.

She listens.

INSTRUCTOR (CONT.)

The unexpected may happen.

He slides his hand over the mat, an order. She lies down.

INSTRUCTOR (CONT.)

Suddenly his maid enters, you're

distracted for an instant, and

he hits you...

That's not possible -

We must prepare even for the

impossible.

She stirs slightly, uncomfortable with this idea.

INSTRUCTOR (CONT.)

We bend the universe to our will,

but it will only go so far.

You're saying -

That's right -

SLIM (CONT.)

For the sake of this exercise, he

hits me.

He's standing over her. She looks completely vulnerable.

VERY TIGHT ON HER AS:

Yes.

And you lie there as if dead.

But hear me.

Hold onto my voice.

She nods almost imperceptibly.

INSTRUCTOR (CONT.)

He's standing over you, he thinks

he's won-and as sure as he's a

coward, he'll try to kick you.

Yes.

And because you know what he'll do,

you're smiling inside,... (CONT.)

Her face blank, eyes still closed-but something changes; we

sense her confidence and serenity returning.

He draws his foot back as if to kick her...

INT. JUPITER'S OFFICE. (San Francisco) DAY.

Slim strides through the office unapologetically interrupting

various conversations. Finally she spots Jupiter, walks over,

and without saying a word, demands his attention -

(to the others)

Ah. Just a sec, I'll be right back.

(to her, irritated}

I thought I made it clear you

weren't supposed to come here.

I don't care what you want.

This almost makes him smile; he's getting to like her.

You're a different person.

So?

How's that black guy I .set you

up with?

Good.

Did he teach you how to think?

It's not the question she expected; it's more interesting and

complicated.

.I hope so.

(before he can speak)

The English guy is good too.

But that's not why I'm here. I need

a woman who looks like me. Someone

who can handle herself: an off-duty

cop or something.

(hands him photo)

Five four, one ten. Hair like this

but cut higher, over the ear -

(hands him key)

Miko hotel, room 509, 8 o'clock.

Tonic ? That's awful short notice;

I don't know if I can -

What? I thought Jupiter was like

all-powerful, king of the Gods?

Oh yeah. One more thing. At some

point.. .not right now 'cause it'd be

phony ...I need you to acknowledge

that I'm your kid.

She walks away. He stares after her. Hint of a smile comes to

his face.

INT. ELECTRONICS STORE. DAY.

Slim is signing the credit card slip as the CLERK puts the

merchandise in a distinctive red bag -

You sure this'll work?

You bet your life.

Thanks, I will.

She leaves, taking out her cell phone. FOLLOW HER as she goes:

EXT. SAN FRANCISCO STREET. DAY.

She walks up the street, punches in a number...

Tyler residence.

Yes. Tony. Could you please tell

Mrs. Tyler that I'll call her around

f our this afternoon.

Of course, Miss Slim. My pleasure.

Slim hangs up, goes into a. bagel shop.

INT.. BAGEL PLACE. LATER.

Slim sits at a table with a cup of coffee. A short guy, 28,

built like a fireplug, dressed in sweater and jeans and wool

cap, enters, walks to her, and says in an English accent:

Today, hon, you graduate.

EXT. DOWNTOWN L.A. STREET. DAY.

Alex and Slim are across the street from a strip joint.

It's closed?

Till six, eh?

And I'd guess whoever owns it

isn't a very nice person.

That's a safe one.

Slim starts walking toward the shop. As they go:

Why here?

You've got soft hands, you've worked

hard. The tricky part now is nerves.

They reach the entryway; Slim takes out her tools.

People on the street?

Yeah. And you have to go in when

his alarm's turned off -

Meaning he's inside.

(has tools out)

I'm ready.

Alex moves slightly to block the view as Slim bends over and

slips her tool into the lock...

Slim working quietly, concentrating...

Alex looking. around...

A SHADY CHARACTER noticing them. Hesitating. Coming over..

We got company, doll...

Slim still working...

The Shady Character has almost reached them...

Forget it. You're too slow.

She opens the door -

Alex glances down, nods -

She closes the door again and stands just as:

Hey. What're you guys up to?

Slim stares at him.

We were hoping to see some action,

but it looks like they're closed.

The Shady Character stares back. He is ve skeptical.

He watches Slim and Alex walk off down the block. Alex mutters

under his breath:

"Action?"

Off her grin -

INT. BEAUTY SALON. DAY.

Slim sits in a chair, cell phone at her ear. Her hair is done;

now she's getting a manicure.

MRS. TYLER'S VOICE

And where is Gracie?

She's coming day after tomorrow,

then we're flying to L.A. I was

thinking after the hearing, maybe I

could bring her by.

MRS. TYLER'S VOICE

Tell me something. Why is this call

different? You were always worried

about how long we talked -

I was out in the country, Mrs. T.

I'm in a big city now, meeting with

my lawyer, so there're lots of cell

phones. No one can trace this.

EXT. BEAUTY PARLOR. DAY.

Slim exits in a long gray coat.

Stops outside for one moment, glances around -

Sees a guy in a GREEN TRENCHCOAT across the street.

She walks hurriedly away.

Glances over her shoulder, sees Trenchcoat following her.

She smiles slightly, to herself.

EXT. SLIM'S HOTEL. DAY.

From a discreet distance, across the street, we watch her go

into her hotel.

Trenchcoat is standing across the street.

INT. HOTEL ROOM. DAY.

Slim enters her suite.

Sitting by the window is TOVA. As Slim walks over, Tova pulls

on a wig which matches Slim's haircut. There is now a strong

resemblance.

I'm Tova Steinberg.

Slim stares. Tova's voice is an octave lower than Slim's.

Say something else.

I was a cop. I got shot, took

the benefits.

Slim thinks about Tova's voice. Takes out her cell phone.

They have to think I'm still here,

so use my cell phone, tomorrow, to

call my dad. Autodial 2.

Slim presses the autodial number, then SEND, and motions for

Tova to put on Slim's gray coat. It fits Tova perfectly.

SLIM (CONT.)

(lowering his voice)

Hey, it's me.

What happened to your voice?; you

okay?

I don't know, I'm getting some

bronchial thing.

Otherwise everything's okay?

Yeah.

Get some rest, huh?

She presses END, says to Tova, back to normal voice:

Tomorrow stay in, order room service.

Call him twice. Keep it brief.

"Hello, I don't feel well..."

And tonight?

Go around the corner, eat at Guido's.

I'll be followed?

Green trenchcoat.

Tova nods and Slim takes off her own wig. Short dark hair.

SLIM (CONT.)

Wish me luck, huh?

Good luck.

Luck has nothing to do with it.

Tova smiles.

INT. HOTEL. HALL. NIGHT.

Slim waiting as the Service Elevator arrives.

Gets in.

EXT. HOTEL. REAR ENTRANCE. NIGHT.

Slim going out the door, down the alley...

INT. AIRPORT. NIGHT.

Slim getting on the plane to Los Angeles.

EXT. SAN PEDRO STREET. NIGHT.

Slim parks, looks across at a warehouse converted into lofts.

BATTLE OF THE

She takes a duffle from the back seat. Steps into the shadows,

stares at the warehouse:

Brick building, modern door and light fixtures.

She looks both ways:

The street's dark. Deserted.

She hoists her duffle, takes a deep breath.

And crosses the street.

Goes up the stairs to the stoop. Looks at the alarm panel on

the door: green.

Crouches, starts to work on the lock.

INT. WAREHOUSE/LOFT. SLEEPING AREA. NIGHT.

Mitch in bed, sleeping. Peaceful.

A SOUND, Off.

He stirs slightly.

ANOTHER SOUND.

He sits up. Frowning... dazed.

Cocks his head. Listens...

The SILENCE seems to have texture. He gets up.

We glimpse: a beautiful brick warehouse converted inside into

an open, loft-like space filled with bird'seye maple, metal

beams, etc. Modern, glistening, expensive.

He walks around the place in the dark.

In his boxer shorts and t-shirt. He looks vulnerable...

SLIM'S POV... From one corner. Observing him. She has become

the stalker.

HER EYES, watching...

He decides everything's okay and goes back to the semi

partitioned sleeping area...

He gets back into bed - next to a YOUNG BLOND WOMAN, 22.

She turns over, mutters something, goes back to sleep.

He lies there, eyes open. Stays very still. Listening.

JARRING CUT TO:

INT. SAME WAREHOUSE. MORNING.

Bright light. Mitch in his bathrobe making coffee. The Young

Blond Woman comes out, fully dressed...

Coffee?

I gotta get home, change for work.

He nods, gives her a perfunctory kiss:

I'll call you.

She stares at him a second.

You want my number?

Sure.

She sees how "eager" he is to talk to her again. Irritated,

she scribbles the number quickly, hands.it to him -

Thanks for everything.

For the sex, in other words. She gives it right back to him:

You too. I really appreciate it.

He's too self-centered to notice her ironic tone.

She lets herself out.

The instant she does, we go to a HIGH ANGLE looking down at

Mitch. Alternate NORMAL and HIGH ANGLE during:

Mitch pours coffee, goes back into his "dressing area" and

pulls on some clothes as he talks into his cell phone:

Janie? Hey.

Yeah, I was working late.

No, tonight's no good either. I've

got a morning flight to San

Francisco.

Slim in therafters, listening.

MITCH (CONT.)

If it was pleasure, you'd be going

too. No, I'm going down to get my

daughter.

Slim's reaction to this...

MITCH (CONT.)

Sure, the custody hearing's here next

week, but it looks like Gracie's

being brought to San Francisco and

my ex-wife ...well, seems like she

completely vanished.

ON SLIM. His words echo his threats when he was trying to

strangle her in her hallway.

MITCH (CONT.)

Right off the face of the earth.

I doubt they'll ever find her

this time.

Slim's jaw tightens.

When we come back to Mitch, he's dressed and packing his

briefcase.

MITCH (CONT.)

Yeah, I want her to meet you.

We'll call when we get in.

You too.

He hangs up, takes a sip of coffee.

HIGH ANGLE SHOT looking down on Mitch as he heads out the door.

Slim waits in the rafters until the alarm system beeps: it's

armed.

She climbs down, walks into the kitchen.

Notices his Mr. Coffee machine is still on.

Hesitates, turns it off.

Opens the fridge to find something to eat -

The alarm beeps again.

Slim drops silently to the floor.

SOUND of the KEY IN THE LOCK -

Slim scuttles away as we hear:

FRONT DOOR OPENING. FOOTSTEPS coming toward her.

She slips around the edge of the counter just as:

Mitch enters the kitchen. He goes to the Mr. Coffee... Looks

at it... Frowns. Didn't he leave it on...?

Slim in the foreground, crouched down, Mitch 15 feet away. He

looks around. Is something wrong? Is someone here?

Slim frozen, trying not to breath.

Mitch listening. Wondering: should he search the place?

She looks for a place to hide -

He looks at his watch. He's late.

He walks right toward Slim, curls around the counter -

But she's not there any longer.

He heads for the front door -

Goes out. HOLD ON the hall, where she was, where he walked.

EMPTY. The alarm beeps again as he resets it.

One silent beat, then Slim rises in the kitchen. (She did a

360.)

She sighs. Pours herself some coffee, replaces the liquid with

water. Auto-dials her cell phone.

I'm in.

Hey.

Can you stay off the phone?

For you, honey? (Anything.)

I hope so.

She hangs up.

Retrieves her duffle bag from its hiding place and pulls out

tools, equipment, etc. Picks up a screwdriver and starts

searching the apartment, checking the phone line, following it

to the place where it enters the apartment.

MONTAGE INTERCUT WITH FLASHES of Slim' a face: a running tab

on her emotions. Intensity, focus, determination, fear,. ..and,

as the sequence builds: concern about what she doing...

She disconnects the phone line.

Finds the electrical box, opens it, finds the main switch.

Removes all the knives from the kitchen... hides them...

Walks the apartment-familiarizing herself with every inch of

it-occasionally she moves a piece of furniture slightly... we

realize: she's assessing fighting spaces. angles...

She looks from one piece of furniture to another, back and

forth, gauging the distance between them.

She eats a snack from his refrigerator...

Looks out the back (bedroom) window... and sees the water of the

San Pedro harbor below her.

Uses a metal detector to search the apartment:

in a drawer of the night table beside his bed, she finds a

pistol. Removes it. There are papers in the same drawer,

notes or something. She throws these in the trash.

She takes out three letters. As the CAMERA sweeps over one of

them, we hear her voice:

SLIM (V.0.)

". .thanks for letting me come talk

about Gracie. And I'm glad you're

willing to admit your temper, and -

let's not mince words - the physical

abuse you subjected me to."

And glances at SECOND LETTER:

SLIM (V.0.)

"Perhaps with your new attitude,

we can really work something out.

Per your last letter, I'll see you

the evening of..."

She puts the letters in the drawer where the pistol was.

They're not in envelopes; they're loose, open.

She picks up the metal detector, resumes her search.

The machine beeps insistently around his desk. She can't find

anything. Finally she discovers a false bottom on one of the

drawers: a second gun is in there.

With the gun are papers: reports from private detectives

looking for her, an assessment of his custody rights...

She hides the guns in the bottom of the laundry hamper.

Finds a photo of herself with Mitch and Gracie. Rips it up.

Puts the metal detector back in the duffle.

Changes into sweatshirt and sweatpants.

Takes the distinctive red bag (from the electronics store) out

of the duffle. There's a machine inside. She plugs it in,

tucks it behind the couch.

Puts her cell phone beside it.

She makes one last check: every wall, surface, every drawer.

Barefoot, she begins to glide around the space. Backing up.

Moving with ease and grace, sliding deftly to the side as she

approaches a couch, desk, chair. She's building on her earlier

reconnaissance: learning where the furniture is and how to

navigate around it...

LATER. MAGIC HOUR.

Light fading toward darkness. She's still moving backward,

only now her sliding is smooth, graceful; almost a dance.

As if hearing a distant signal, she slows to a stop.

For a long moment she stands perfectly still. Poised. Like an

animal in the forest.

There's a chair facing the front door. She glances at it. No.

She walks behind the couch, turns off the machine, picks up her

cell phone and auto-dials.

Hey.

Slim says nothing.

GINNY'S VOICE (CONT.)

You okay?

Say it again.

Say what?

You know. What you told me.

Beat. On Slim's face as:

Oh. You have a divine animal right

to protect your own life and the

life of your offspring.

Silence.

Yeah.

She hangs up, turns the machine back on and stashes her cell

phone.

With simple ease, she lowers herself onto the chair. Facing

the door. Waiting in the fading light...

EXT. STREET. NIGHT.

Mitch walks down the street.

Up the steps, punches in his alarm code.

INT. MITCH'S PLACE. NIGHT.

Mitch enters, closes and locks the door.

Turns on the light.

He walks back to the rear of the space, hangs up his coat.

Goes into the bedroom area, takes off his jacket.

The lights go out.

Mitch freezes, shadow on shadow, a silhouette in the darkness.

He looks out the window, sees:

The neighboring buildings still have light and power.

He cocks his head, listening.

Silence.

Walks to the door of the bedroom area. Waits.

Take two more steps -

It's me.

He nods slowly.

Yeah. (I thought so.)

He moves quietly to the bed... to the night table where Slim

found the pistol. Covers this by talking:

MITCH {CONT.}

This morning too?

You always did forget to turn off

the coffee.

He rummages in the drawer. We hear the RUSTLE of the letters

Slim put there. He fails to find the gun. Gives up trying to

be quiet, tosses papers onto the floor -

SLIM'S VOICE {CONT.}

I found it, Mitch.

His hand leaves the drawer.

He thinks.

Picks up the phone, listens. Dead.

Looks around... can't see her...

Goes back to the chair where he hung his sports coat and fishes

out his cell phone. We see the GLOW of its dial.

He punches 911 and pressed SEND.

The dial goes dark for two seconds, then blinks back on.

He stares at it.

Tries again. 911, SEND.

Again it goes dead.

It's a machine. Knocks out cell

phones.

He throws the cell phone onto the bed.

Walks out of the bedroom area.

Looks around the vast space.

Spooky. Slanting light and dense shadow.

He doesn't see her.

Walks toward his desk.

I found that gun too.

He stops. Doesn't know where to go. or what to do.

Scared?

Of what?

Now is when you decide, Mitch.

(off his silence)

Whether you're a coward. If you

are, you can run. I won't stop you.

(meaning the match is unfair:)

You have my guns.

Threw 'em away.

Then someone's here with you.

No.

You're alone?

Why not?

'Cause it'd be stupid.

Silence is her answer.

MITCH (CONT.)

You're sayin' this is man to man?

Woman, Mitch.

That's what I meant: man against

woman - you sure that's fair?

The lights go back on.

Slowly Slim comes out from hiding...

Fair to whom?

As he realizes her meaning, she moves into the open area

between two couches.

She has no weapon.

She's barefoot, in her sweats, feet spread for balance, arms

just slightly raised. Compared to him: she's tiny.

He moves toward her.

This is what you wanted, right?

What you were going to San Francisco

for: the chance to get me alone?

He lunges for her; she slides to the side and he misses.

He begins to stalk her.

And as he stalks, she moves backward, slowly and gracefully, in

the way she was practicing.

I don't understand, Slim.

How does this work for you?

She ignores his words. Watches his eyes and his chest. Wants

to know where he's going to attack.

MITCH (CONT.)

I mean: this is carefully thought

out, right?

She does not respond.

He throws three punches. None of them hits her.

He's unfazed, keeps stalking...

MITCH (CONT.)

But say you succeed - beat me up

or whatever. You're not going to

murder me... (CONT.)

Her expression remains neutral, focused.

He takes this to be agreement.

MITCH (CONT.)

So all you've done is further

piss me off.

Self defense is not ,murder.

This stops him cold.. He lowers his hands a moment. Stares at

her, trying to assimilate this new information...

You don't have the guts.

She just looks at him.

He blinks, worried for an instant. Covers it with a smile:

It's not self-defense when you

break in here and attack me.

So far you're attacking me.

He lunges, almost hits her, rushes in -

She has to leap sideways with great speed and dexterity: jumps

over the couch to avoid being hit.

He also jumps over the couch, but his balance isn't as good,

and she's waiting for him as he stumbles -

With perfect balance and full force, she slugs him in the nose.

He goes down. Stays there. For the first time it occurs to

him: this might not be easy.

He climbs to his feet, feels his nose: blood.

You see? I'm just defending myself.

He resumes stalking her. Only he's angry now, and it's scary.

If you fail, you can count on this:

you'll never see Gracie again.

She reacts -

He sees it, rushes her -

Punching as he goes. From the standpoint of pure physics, he

makes a terrifying force. Until:

She steps back, grabs his arm, whips him vs. the brick wall -

He hits it, bounces off.

Cut on his forehead, blood streaming down his face.

He stares at her... breathing hard... trying to put it together:

You really (think) ...you think you'll

kill me and get away with it?l

I told you. Self-defense. I came

here, as arranged in our letters, to

talk about Gracie -

Letters? There are no -

In the drawer where your pistol was.

You just left prints all over them.

He stares at her, stunned in every way. Touches his forehead,

feels the blood...

You attacked me, I fought back. And

of course if you never touch me...

I'll have to give myself bruises...

He goes berserk. Leaps at her, covering ground quickly with

his long stride, swinging his massive arms. This is the most

terrifying form of combat: a huge person attacking a tiny one.

If he should hit her even once, a glancing blow, she will go

down, she will break, it will be over.

But he misses, and misses again. Sometimes his punches are

wild, almost comical. Others come so close we hear-the wind,

feel their power, feel his sweat on her...

CONTINUE this terrifying choreographed dance with destruction

for as long as it will hold. At every instant, we fear for her

bones and her life. Sometimes she leans back like Muhammad Ali

to barely slip a punch, and we see terror on her face, married

to determination. She knows the score. and the odds.

Finally, in frustration at so many misses, he grabs an ashtray,

hurls.it at her -

it flies over her head -

He punches again and again, wildly.

She remains untouched.

He stops. With all the blood, he looks like a wild animal.

He makes a great effort to pull himself together...

This doesn't bother me, Slim.

I don't care how long it takes.

We both know: Ionly have to hit

you once. Once, and it's over.

She laughs at him.

This is the last thing he expected and the last thing he can

stand. He rushes at her again, fast -

She starts left -

He blocks her way -

She starts right -

Again he's blocking her -

She lunges to the left, through a narrow space -

He punches, grazing her hair; punches again, just missing, and

a third time. We feel the awesome power behind these blows.

She's in the clear again. Smiles casually. Clearly part of

her strategy is to keep him angry:

I'm confused, Mitchy. Aren't you a

man?

I thought it was "no contest?"

I mean, can't you hit me even once?

He grabs a lamp, yanks out the cord, wields it like a club.

SLIM (CONT.)

A weapon?

He smashes the lamp down, just missing her head -

SLIM (CONT.)

It's a martial-arts cliche, honey.

A weapon throws you off balance -

He misses her three times, the last time smashing the lamp into

the wall so hard that the impact hurts his hand. He yelps -

SLIM (CONT.)

You see?

He turns toward her, pain on his face, holding his hand -

And she truly attacks for the first time. Smashes her fist

against his head -

He flies back, bounces vs. the wall.

As he comes off it, she punches him again -

He roars with rage, lunges at her, head first, great speed -

She hurtles him in the same direction, increasing speed -

Right into the opposite wall.

The top of his head hits the wall.

He shudders like someone in a cartoon: a spasm running head to

He drops.

Face down.

Does not move.

At all.

She stares at him.

Goes to him. Wary.

Gives him a reflex test -

No reaction. He's unconscious.

She tests his neck for a pulse.

Apparently he's still alive, because she raises her hand

over her head.

Her palm vertical, like a knife.

She's about to deliver a karate chop.

To his neck.

it will break his neck.

It will kill him.

Her hand stays there, poised. CAMERA PLUNGES IN ON HER FACE.

- Mitch hitting her the first time -

- Midwest house, Mitch leaping out from Gracie's doorway -

- Mitch beating her as she crawls across the floor of

their house. (Something we didn't see before.) She reaches

up, flicks the light switch; Mitch jumps on her back -

- Mitch: "You'll never see Gracie again."

- Earlier: "She's My daughter. Don't even think about

taking her."

- Strangling Slim, whispering: "...where you're going,

they will never... ever... find you."

BACK TO SLIM

Face contorted in rage, confusion -

She brings her hand down -

Misses. him.

Intentionally.

Turns away, tears in her eyes.

She retrieves her cell phone, turns off the cell-phone blocker,

presses redial.

Stares out the window. We see the turmoil on her face, hear it

in her voice:

I can't, Gin.

'Re you okay?

Yeah.

You're okay?!, you beat him?!

It worked?!

Listen to me! I did it, but I can't

do it! I can't kill him!

Behind Slim, out of focus: movement, a soft blur...

GINNY'S VOICE (CONT.)

Slim. He'll come after you -

I know -

GINNY'S VOICE (CONT.)

He'll come after Gracie -

An indistinct shape, something rising over her head...

I know all that!

I have to, but I can't!

I'm not a killer!

I'm not him!

Mitch. Crazed and bloody face. In his hand: the wooden lamp.

She senses something, turns her head slightly to one side -

- so the lamp does not land quite flush on her skull.

Still sends her crashing to the floor.

Now she does not move.

He stands over her. Looks insane: bloody, dazed, beaten: but

triumphant.

Hello? Slim? You there?

The lamp moving in his hand. He's rotating it. A simple

menacing image... . and we realize: he' s aoinq to hit her again.

GINNY'S VOICE {CONT.}

Should I call the cops?!

Answer me?!

He's distracted by Ginny's voice. Picks up the phone.

Listen to me, bitch.

Ginny's silent.

MITCH (CONT.)

if you value your children, don' t

call anybody.

It's over, okay? It's all over.

He throws the phone on the couch and moves back toward Slim,

lamp clenched tight in his fist.

SMASH IN CLOSE ON HER FACE.

CLOSER STILL. We're almost inside her head as we hear:

Hold onto my voice...

Is that the hint of a smile on her face?

INSTRUCTOR'S VOICE (CONT.)

You're ready...

Mitch sees the slight smile, can't believe it -

Rage.

He pulls his foot back to kick her -

Her eyes are open, just a slit -

His foot swinging forward...

As it reaches her, she grabs it, yanks it -

He's pulled off his feet, crashing down on top of her -

But she's already rolling, out from under him... and up -

Coming to her feet -

He starts to rise, all fours, then into a crouch and ug...

SLOW MOTION. She's ready. Her face alert. Center of gravity

low. Arm low,.fist low... As her motion unfurls:

Boxers say that an uppercut, perfectly

executed, is the most difficult,

powerful, and beautiful of punches.

Indeed: when an uppercut starts low for maximum center-of-

gravity and hits the opponent flush on the point of the chin -

as Slim's does here - it delivers a devastating message to the

central nervous system, short-circuiting it completely.

Mitch flies backward...

There's a table behind him.

His head cracks on the table.

His neck snaps.

He lands on the floor: twisted, broken.

Slim stares at him.

There's no way a living man could assume the position now

occupied by her former husband.

She stares in disbelief.

Though she knows the answer, she feels his carotid artery.

Her face registers what she feels. Horror, relief.

She walks slowly to her cell phone, picks it up.

Listens: no one there.

She presses redial, waits...

(in a panic)

H o?d

Hi.

Oh thank God you're alive.

Gin, he's ...he hit his...he's not

breathing.

oh.

Yeah.

Well: I called the cops, they're on

their way.

Slim nods.

Slim... can you hear me?, this is

important.

Beat.

Okay.

As Ginny talks, Slim puts the cell-phone blocker into the

duffle and carries the duffle to the rear of the building.

You're not him, okay? You're not

him, and you never will be.

See you soon.

She drops the cell phone out the bedroom window into the water.

Then the duffle. They both sink.

EXT. BROWNSTONE.

She comes out, sits on the steps. A siren is audible.

Cop cars speed down the street, screech to a stop.

TWO COPS LEAP OUT OF THE CAR, run toward her.

You okay?

She looks at him, considering the question.

Shakes her head.

Where is he?

She makes a slight motion to indicate that Mitch is inside, and

the OTHER COP runs into the apartment.

Slim lowers her head.

First Cop looks at her, sees the blood on her scalp.

Looks like you're one of the lucky

ones.

She looks up, stares at him, and starts to cry.

CREDIT SEQUENCE CREDITS OVER FLASHES:

INT. LAX. DAY.

Slim jumping up and down and generally making a fool of herself

as Gracie runs off the plane into her arms. Ginny follows with

her own kids; hugs all around -

WHIP PAN TO:

ANOTHER GATE AT THE AIRPORT. DAY.

and picks up Gracie instead, gives Gracie a big hug.

Joe lingers in the hug as Slim waits...and waits...

Finally he turns to Slim, hint of a smile:

What rules are we playing by now?

She answers him with the kind of kiss you can get away with at

a bar or airport and almost nowhere else.

WHIP PAN TO:

ANOTHER GATE AT AIRPORT. DAY.

Jupiter comes off the plane, is hugged by Ginny, shakes hands

with Joe. As he turns to Gracie, Slim says:

This time be nice to her.

Is it gonna be like that?

Yeah.

Jupiter smiles, shakes hands with Gracie:

I hope I can work into being

your grandfather, okay?

Gracie shrugs.

EXT. NEW "ORCA" RESTAURANT. DAY.

SIGNS all over: OPEN AGAIN AFTER BOMBING1 SAME GREAT FOOD!

SAME BEAUTIFUL WAITRESSES! SAME TERRIBLE JOKES!

INT. NEW ORCA. DAY.

Slim, Joe, Jupiter, and Gracie eating, Ginny serving large

platters of gorgeous food:

So whattaya say, Slim-girl, you

comin' back to work?

(passing by, overhears and

After all I do for her... ?

She better not!

Ginny gives him a look -

She has to go back to school, make

big success. Sigmund Freud, yes?!

Don't worry, Mr. Moneybags will pay.

Jupiter gives Phil a playful look: thanks a lot.

Phil whispers to Gracie:

But don't let her cook, huh Gracie?

You eat here all the time.

Gracie nods thanks, whispers back:

Call me Queen Elizabeth.

RUN TITLES ON THE REST OF THEIR MEAL. The longer it runs, the

happier this odd family (including Ginny and Phil) seems...

FADE OUT.

