EXT. HANCOCK TOWER, CHICAGO - LATE NIGHT

Lake Shore Drive.  Four o'clock in the morning.  Minimal traffic,

minimal life.  As MAIN TITLES BEGIN, we PAN UP the face of...

...Hancock Tower.  Up, up, forty floors, sixty, eighty, very dark

up here, street sounds fading fast, and as CREDITS CONTINUE we can

just make out...

...a dark FIGURE.  Like a spider.  Inching its way up the steel

surface of the 98th floor, and we CLOSE to see...

The THIEF.  All in black, nearly invisible, with a sleek visored

helmet that conceals the face.  Two long, oblong backpacks, climb-

ing ropes and harness across back and shoulders, tools at the belt.

Moving STRAIGHT UP the face of the skyscraper.  How is it possible?

CLOSER still to see...

...the piton-like BOLTS are electromagnetic, CLANKING to the steel

to support weight.  A button releases the magnetic charge when the

bolt is pulled up by cords to a higher position.  The Thief is

remarkably strong and agile, scaling the wall with fluid precision,

until...

...our summit.  A softly-lit, glass-walled PENTHOUSE on the

100th floor.  Subtle spots which bathe paintings, sculptures,

in a cavernous coldly-decorated space.

Swiftly, deftly, the Thief rigs a suction-mounted HARNESS to the

steel casing above a massive window.  Pulleys, metal caribiner

clips, yellow Kevlar ropes.  So superbly practiced, the rigging is

placed in seconds, huge SUCTION CUPS pressed to the surface of the

glass.  The Thief reaches to a metal rectangle at the top of the

rigging, touches a button, a motor WHINES, the ropes TIGHTEN and

the window...

...POPS FREE, hangs SUSPENDED by the Kevlar ropes which amazingly

sustain its awesome weight.  The huge pane shudders in the wind,

and the Thief slips...

...INTO the Penthouse.  Nearby, an ALARM BOX softly BEEPS its

60-second warning to the pulsing of a green light, and the Thief

attaches a small computerized DEVICE which runs a series of

possible CODES at dazzling speed on its display panel, until...

...the right one STOPS.  Illuminated in red.  The beeping, the

green light, go OFF.  The device is removed.

Back to the window, air rushing in, attach a similar suction-

mounted harness from the inside, all exquisitely engineered to rig

in seconds, press new suction cups to the inside of the dangling

window pane.  A small remote control clicker...

...RELEASES the outside suction cups.  The window's weight now

supported by the interior rigging.  The outside equipment pulled

INTO the apartment in a single tug.  The WHINE of a motor, and the

pane pulls UP, the Thief expertly POPPING it into place.

No trace of entry.

Rapidly folding the rigging into an astonishingly compact bundle,

the Thief SCANS...

...the profusion of priceless art.  The paintings run to Otto Dix,

Franz Marc, Marcel Duchamp.  One statue an obvious Rodin.  The soft

lighting makes walls seem invisible, everything with an infinity

perspective in mind.  An obsidian slab dining table that seems to

end at the horizon.

The Thief has packed the rigging away, taken out a large cylin-

drical TUBE bearing a label we can't read.  Knows the way, quickly

through the spectacular apartment, past oils by early German

expressionists, Russian futurists, a Rothko, a Kandinsky, a Francis

Bacon.  The Thief has no interest in these, and as CREDITS CONTINUE,

we enter...

...a powder room.  A lime-green poured concrete sink, a copper-

plated commode, and across from these...

...a single PAINTING.  Unlike the others, clearly an Old Master.

A 17th century city on the water, churches, spires, an ancient

bridge.  The Thief wastes no time, unceremoniously...

...CUTS the painting from its frame with sure, perfect strokes.

Rolls it quickly in acid-free paper.  Opens the cylindrical tube,

pulling out...

...another CANVAS which we cannot see.  Deftly unrolls this,

fitting it carefully into the stolen painting's now-empty frame.

Re-hangs it.  Stares for a beat through the opaque helmet visor.

Approves.  Slips the rolled-up stolen canvas into the empty tube.

Leaves.  Before we follow, we shift angle to see the replacement

canvas...

A cheerful acrylic portrait.  Bozo the Clown.

WITH the Thief now, moving fast, into a panelled library.  There is

a CHUTE built into the wall, a brass lid with the words U.S. MAIL.

The Thief pops the labeled tube DOWN the chute.  Gone.  Steps...

...onto a bookshelf, reaches up to punch out an overhead grating,

and...

Disappears into the vent.  Reaching back to refit the grating

seamlessly into place.

INT. VENT

Halogen flashlight leading the way, our Thief shimmies down the

narrow space, arriving at...

...an open vertical AIR SHAFT, BLASTING air straight up the 100

floor height of the skyscraper, with frightening FORCE.  Calmly,

the Thief clips on a different harness, unzips a nylon cover from

the backpack, and simply...

LEAPS DOWN the air shaft, startling the shit out of us, as, for an

instant...

...the force of the updraft seems to HOLD the Thief in place,

suspended above 100 stories of nothingness.  Then suddenly, the

Thief...

...DROPS SHARPLY, an exhilarating moment of absolute FREE FALL,

until a cord is tugged and...

...a nylon PARACHUTE OPENS with a pop.  We watch the Thief drifting

lazily down.  A ride any kid would pay big money for...

EXT. HANCOCK TOWER - LATE NIGHT

Our original exterior VIEW of the skyscraper's penthouse.  REVERSE

ANGLE now to see in far distance...

...the dense forest of silhouetted OFFICE TOWERS of downtown

Chicago against the night sky, and we ZOOM TOWARD them, covering

miles in three seconds, to CLOSE on...

...the highest floor of the SEARS TOWER, and THROUGH an unlit

window to see...

...a TELESCOPE.  A silhouetted FIGURE looking through it.  SNAP

to...

VIEW through the scope's lens.  An amazingly CLOSE detail of the

Hancock Tower Penthouse.  The scope now PANS DOWN the length of the

Tower, to...

The street.  The Thief climbing onto a battered old Lambretta.

Calm as you please.  And as the scooter glides off...

We HEAR our unseen voyeur WALK AWAY from our telescope.  A door

OPENS somewhere, and as CREDITS CONCLUDE, it...

Closes.  Softly.

INT. WEBBER ASSURANCE - DAY

A basement corridor.  Long, bare, dimly lit.  Silent.  We're in the

bowels of somewhere.  A startling CLANK, like a prison cell

unlocking.  A FIGURE enters the corridor, coming this way, on the

hurried side of brisk.

HECTOR CRUZ is 42, tanned, fit, graying hair swept back in a Pat

Riley do.  He wears Riley's Armani, too.  Maybe this guy coaches.

Heels ECHO until he reaches a plain door with discreet lettering...

NO ADMITTANCE FOR ANY REASON.  There is a dull silver rectangle

below the words.  He holds his hand up to it...

Nothing happens.  Shit.  Dries his palm on his perfectly-creased

slacks.  One more time.  CLICK.  Enters...

INT. SITUATION ROOM - DAY

An unexpectedly VAST semi-circular room, the entire inner circum-

ference made up of a single continuous WALL SCREEN, separated into

a seamless array of IMAGES...

Three-dimensional rotating GRAPHICS of every room in the Hancock

Tower Penthouse, SCHEMATICS of electrical, plumbing, and ventila-

tion systems.  See-through rotating multicolored models of every

piece of security EQUIPMENT imaginable, components FLASHING as

performance simulations are run.  Rapid-fire sequences of indiv-

idual human PROFILES, complete with photos and bio blurbs.  Screens

flickering with blizzards of DATA, hurtling past at warp speed.

The Pentagon and CNN would kill for this room.

The largest segment of screen, twenty feet square, runs a LIVE FEED

from the crime scene.  The living room of the Penthouse, crawling

with slow-moving cops and technicians, doing their slow-moving

thing.  Surrounding this image are a dozen smaller screens, showing

this and other rooms from a variety of camera angles.  All live.

We see the library, the mail chute.  The powder room.  Bozo.

Cruz skips down three steps to floor level, nine separate CONTROL

STATIONS, each outfitted with super-tech panels to process the

avalanche of information.  But today, all stations are empty.

Except one.

And now we see her.  From the rear.  Slouched at her station.

Looks like a skinny teenager in tousled tawny hair, rumpled

oversized workshirt, vintage jeans.

Not a kid's voice.  Throaty.  Music and whiskey and sex and

effortless confidence.  Even the voice turns us on.

And stops.  Because she turns with a look that would freeze anyone

to stone.

Now we really see her.  Delicate bones and features, slender body,

radiating the power of a natural heart-stopping beauty.  GINGER

BAKER is 32, ethereal and feral at once.  Electric green eyes

crackle with an intellect and a will that are not to be fucked

with.

He is not kidding.  Stainless steel beneath the dapper.  They are a

matched team.

And he smiles.  Maybe she's lying.  He likes her.

He means the cops on live feed.

Ouch.  Really?

Soft and straight.  You're the best.  I need you.

He's listening.  He always does with her.

She sounds awfully positive.  Then again, she always does.

Almost as if she knows who.  Cruz shakes his head...

She smiles.  First time.  Even at one-tenth power, it is dazzling

light.  She touches the panel before her...

The live feed is replaced by a red-outlined rotating three-

dimensional DIAGRAM of the living room.  The alarm box glows green.

One window pane glows lavender.  She touches the panel, and the

window SHATTERS, the alarm instantly emits a PIERCING SCREECH.

Reset.  As he watches.  This time the window SLIDES AWAY into

thin air.  No sound.  A stick figure appears, crawls through the

opening, and the alarm begins the slow BEEP we heard last night.

Cruz just stares.

Live feed replaces the diagram.  Our camera ZOOMS toward a VASE of

lilies by the window.  All the flowers are tilted in one direction.

Over the lip of the vase, away from the window.

He turns to her.

Now she is beaming.  Excited.  And just above a whisper...

Delighted at his stupefied reaction.

His slow smile.  This fucking kid.

She's serious.

She doesn't even answer.  Just touches her panel, and one of the

data screens BLOWS UP to huge size.  It is...

Names SCROLLING up endlessly, next to titles, descriptions,

estimated retail

Coles, DeKooning, Klimt, Cezannes, Odilon Redon, Braques, Mary

Cassatt...

Names keep rolling, Degas, Paul Klee.  Amazing.

She shakes her head, sadly.

Touches her panel.  The big screen now shows a grainy VIDEOTAPE

of...

We see the Great Room of an English Country estate.  Perhaps a

hundred attend.  Genteel to the max.

The tape PANS five PAINTINGS on the block.  We recognize our

VERMEER, the city of Delft, the canal, the bridge.  The view PULLS

BACK to include the crowd, and...

FREEZES.  One tiny section is circled.  And BLOWS UP twenty feet.

high, so blurry as to be unrecognizable.  Then, SNAPS to amazing

resolution.  The image of...

...ANDREW MacDOUGAL, perhaps 60, as charismatic and shamelessly

virile a face as one can recall.  Etched with character and worldly

experience, lit by a twinkle behind the razor-keen gaze.  Tall,

wide shoulders, massive hands.  This guy would be more fun to fuck

than fight.  By a lot.

She leans WAY back in the molded chair.  Lifts her long legs

up onto the console.  They end in slender bare feet.  The toes

wriggle.

Touches the panel.  The big screen now holds three faces, three

names.

One face and name disappears.  Two remain.  KOICHI NARUHITO.

HIROYUKI YAMAJI.

A tiny, dry, adorable, shrug.  Which says, bingo.

Grinning small at each other.  She can't help that hers is hot.

She never can.

One of those moments when his attraction to her is too obvious to

ignore.  Best to defuse by pretending it's a joke...

Said as banter between pals.  Which doesn't make her wrong.

INT. HOTEL OKURA, TOKYO - NIGHT

Auction in progress in the huge traditional LOBBY, where bonsai

trees, paper lanterns and elaborate painted screens counterpoint

the sleek, international, big-money crowd.  Everyone milling,

drinking, schmoozing, networking in a babble of languages, as up

on the raised platform...

...the AUCTIONEER has a new piece on the block, a 6th Century

temple scroll, from the Asuka period.  It is exquisite, and bidding

seems to be big time, from the rapidly escalating numbers on the

overhead DIGITAL DISPLAY, which reveals bidding status in thirty

currencies simultaneously. As we PAN the hall, we see...

...all non-Asians either wearing headphones, or acompanied by

personal translators at their elbow, to follow the rapid-fire

auctioneer.

Except one.

ANDREW MacDOUGAL stands alone in black tie.  Tall and rugged and

polished and focused, and, well, pretty gorgeous.  He is bidding on

the scroll, indicated only by subtle gestures with his program and

the repeated finger-stabs of the auctioneer in our direction.

PULL BACK slightly to reveal Gin, who has stepped to his shoulder.

She is barely recognizable to us in her satiny slip of a pale

golden gown that drapes her frame perfectly.  Breathtaking would

be an insult.

MacDougal doesn't turn, doesn't seem to even hear her.  Just raises

his program to up the bid.

And now he turns.  Straight to her eyes.  This is NOT an admiring

glance at seeing the loveliest woman in the Northern Hemisphere.

It is a look that says, in the most understated terms, shut up or

I'll kill you.  She shuts up.

His glance goes to his obvious bidding RIVAL, a rather butch

middle-aged Chinese woman in an embroidered version of a Mao suit.

She indicates her bid by gesturing with a tiny Yorkshire Terrier,

whom she holds in her stubby hands.  MacDougal raises back.

And stops.  Because he has turned.  With the eyes of a lion.  Being

pulled from an antelope carcass.

Rich Scottish voice.  Impeccable Japanese intonation.

Oh.  In spite of herself, she looks a little hurt.

Her eyes move across his formidable face.

His eyes scan the length of her gown.  Her body.

She is minus a comeback.

A beat.

He blinks.  No?

His great head WHIPS around to see Madame Mao KISSING her pooch,

flushed with victory.  He stares for a long moment, a veneer of

philosophical almost masking his rage.  When he turns back...

And walks.  Away.

HOLD on her.  Feeling like both.

EXT. HOTEL OKURA - NIGHT

Mac among the guests awaiting their cars, standing slightly apart.

From behind him...

...a feminine throat clears.  Nervously.  He closes his eyes for a

beat.  Then, turns.

And presents a business card to him with both hands, Japanese-

style.  Mac looks in her eyes.  Takes the card with both hands.

Reads...

She blinks.  His brows raise...

That laser, unsmiling stare.  Beyond sexy.  She gets lost in it for

a beat.

Glances back to her card.  Reads...

Looks up.  Still no smile.

She sighs.  Achingly lovely.

Do you.

Huh?  Oh.

Guileless smile.

A held beat.  His glance lifts beyond her shoulder.

And walks off toward a sleek custom TOURING CAR just pulling up.

She goes after him.

Tipping the valet.  Sliding in...

Shutting the door.  Through the open window, she hands something

from her bag.  A plastic rectangle which OPENS into a slide viewer.

She presses the light ON.  He looks at the slide.

No reaction.

She leans closer.

He hands it back.  Looks in her eyes.

And TAKES OFF.  Her jaw drops slightly, but in one fluid motion...

She's hailed a cab.

INT. IMPERIAL HOTEL BAR - LATER

Graceful, timeless room, designed by Frank Lloyd Wright in the

'20s.  Burnished.  Elegant.  Way cool.  A place to drink, to deal,

to dream.  PAN down the polished surface of the bartop, til we

come to...

...a tropical DRINK.  Cute little umbrella, tilted back toward the

room.  ROTATE ANGLE to see...

...INSIDE the umbrella, something small, something mechanical.  A

woman's HAND ADJUSTS the point of the umbrella ever so slightly,

and we PAN UP her arm to see...

...Gin.  Still in her gown.  She is reading, with half-glasses, and

one of the bows curls around her ear, which we CLOSE on to hear...

...static.  Gin adjusts the drink umbrella, which is a directional

mike, and hears...

SNAP to Mac's table, well across the room.  Drinking giant beers

with a large,

suit.  The hulk listens with stone attention to Mac's rant, as if

he actually gave a shit.

The guy nods seriously.  Maybe he's a Sumo dude.

That he does.  Mac pulls out a leather cigar holder, and passes it

over.  Flat against one side is an ENVELOPE, which Sumo Guy PALMS

skillfully, slipping it seamlessly INTO his pocket as he withdraws

a small MATCH BOX.  Takes out one long cigar, lights up...

The big guy pushes the cigar holder and match box back toward Mac.

Opening the box, Mac sees one match and a small MICROCHIP fastened

to the cardboard.  Lights up.  Slides the match box in his pocket.

ANGLE...Gin still engrossed in her reading.  A figure leans down

next to her.  She startles, slightly.  So surprised to see...

She gives him the great smile.

And now he smiles.  First time ever.  A little chilling, the way he

does it.

In one motion, he flags the bartender...

He presses some currency into the barkeep's hand.  Turning back...

Oh.   She's shocked.  He agrees...

She looks in his eyes.

And as if he believed her...

His smile evaporates.  He is gone before she can say...

INT. CAR, SHINJUKU DISTRICT - NIGHT

Mac driving in silence.  Gin stealing glances at him.  Suddenly and

smoothly, he reaches down, and picks up...

He opens it.  One eye on the road, he begins to rummage...

She SNATCHES the bag away from him, he GRABS it back, the car

SWERVES LEFT, and...

...CRASHES VIOLENTLY into a parked pure white Bentley.  Metal

BUCKLES and TEARS, both ALARMS go OFF, a cacophony of horrific

NOISE.

People come RUNNING, but our focus is drawn to the refined elderly

COUPLE who were just returning to their precious Bentley.  Their

WAILS and ANGUISH would be suitable if all their grandchildren had

been crushed beneath Mac's wheels.

Mac and Gin are OUT of the car.  As he exits, Mac has palmed a

small BLADE, and in a quick unseen motion, RIPPED a jagged tear

in his left trouser leg.  The old couple RUSH to Mac, SHRIEKING

their rage and grief in Japanese, Gin is trying to calm them as

bystanders gather, but Mac cuts through...

And HOBBLES off toward the nearest building, a block-square

30-story skyscraper bearing the name FUJITSU.  The couple, the

crowd, all race after the limping Mac...

No answer, he looks dark enough to rain.  INTO the public lobby of

the huge industrial complex.  Two night GUARDS come hurrying from

their desk, as the small mob POURS in.  Mac in the lead, a

commanding presence, tells the guards in a loud, clear voice...

One guard leads the hysterical couple toward a phone.  Mac pulls up

his trouser leg, and Gin GASPS to see a bloody GASH.  Mac drops the

trouser back over the wound.  Asks the remaining guard...

The guard nods absently, disoriented by the chaos.  Mac hands his

billfold to Gin...

Soft words, genuine concern.  And his eyes flicker.  As if somehow

seeing her for the first time.  A small spark, but she feels it.

Softer still...

The look holds.

His first real smile.  It was worth waiting for.

INT. TOILET STALL

We are inside an empty, closed, Japanese-style toilet stall.

Porcelain foot rests.  A hole.  The door BURSTS OPEN, and...

...Mac enters FAST with the First Aid kit, locking the door,

hitting the STOPWATCH on his wrist, which begins counting at

ZERO.  He pulls UP his trouser leg, revealing the bloody gash,

and simply...

...RIPS the entire wound OFF, the rubbery prosthetic wound DANGLES,

dripping its phony blood.  Mac pulls gauze strips from the kit,

SOAKS them in bogus gore, expertly WRAPS his leg, then FLUSHES the

prosthetic DOWN the hole.

He pulls off the FUJITSU VISITOR badge clipped to his lapel, and

from a Ziploc bag slides a small sheet of plastic, which he PRESSES

to the face of the badge, fitting perfectly, turning the badge

into...

...an EMPLOYEE I.D., the name KAWAKUBO, M., the PHOTO of a surly

Japanese male.  Quickly, Mac takes out the MATCH BOX from the hotel

bar, and with a fine tweezers gently removes the MICROCHIP, placing

it INSIDE the badge, activating it with a soft BEEP-BEEP.  He

reaches now...

...behind his back, up UNDER his tux jacket, and RIPS FREE a

tightly-compressed PACK of what seems white paper or cloth.  He

SNAPS it loose, revealing it to be...

...a baggy CLEAN SUIT, not unlike hospital scrubs and falling to

the floor...

...a white HOOD.  With opaque tinted VISOR.

INT. SECURITY CORRIDOR

Mac in his clean suit and opaque-visored hood at an elevator marked

CLEARED PERSONNEL ONLY in English and Kanji (Japanese characters).

He holds his badge to the SCANNER, the door PINGS and slides OPEN..

INT. PREP ROOM ENTRANCE, 29TH FLOOR

Mac emerging from his elevator at the entrance to an AIR-LOCK with

sign CLEAN ROOM - CLASS 10.  Holds his badge to the SCANNER, the

air-lock door lights FLASH froin red to yellow to green.  He

enters...

...the PREP ROOM.  Recorded VOICES purr safety instructions in

Japanese, while Mac stands, being bombarded by air shower, chemical

sprayer, blinding UV light.  The next air-lock OPENS.  He enters...

INT. CLEAN ROOM

...a long ASSEMBLY LINE, where ROBOT ARMS work on a stream of black

SILICON WAFERS, which pass along a clear Lexan CONVEYOR BELT.  The

wafers move through various airtight CHAMBERS, exposing them to

multi-colored gasses, cyan, sodium yellow, magenta, etc., as part

of the microchip manufacturing process.

More than a dozen TECHNICIANS in their hooded clean suits watch

over every phase of the work, attached to the walls by grounding

wires and air hoses, which create a deafening NOISE.  Mac simply

hooks himself up, and saunters straight THROUGH the area, toward

the place where the conveyor belt with its newly-processed

MICROCHIPS...

...DISAPPEARS through the wall.  Nearby, a HATCH is built into the

same wall, and Mac calmly CLANKS it OPEN, squeezing through into...

...a dimly-lit MAINTENANCE BAY.  Panels of switches, wires, fuses,

fans, air cleaners.  Maximum claustrophobia, as Mac CLANGS the

hatch SHUT behind him, looking instantly to...

...an OVERHEAD HATCH with letters in Kanji and English, DANGER

ARGON GAS.  Mac THROWS back his hood, YANKS out his mini oxygen

pouch, fits the slender forked breathing tube into his nostrils,

and slips on thick round infrared GOGGLES that make him look like a

refugee from 12 MONKEYS.  No time to lose...

...up THROUGH the overhead hatch, closing it behind him as he

enters...

...the conveyer TUBE, a horizontal Lexan cylinder three feet in

diameter, filled with billowing red gas.  Mac stretches out on his

belly, glancing up to where the clear conveyor belt, with its

precious cargo of microchips, runs along just above his head in

eerie red light.  He begins to...

...shimmy, crawl, squirm along the length of the tube.  Gas too

thick to see the end.  He is agile as a commando, hauling ass, when

suddenly...

...the floor beneath his tube FALLS AWAY, and he is crawling in

space 29 stories above Tokyo, as his tube spans the distance

between manufacturing and shipping structures.  He goes faster,

HARDER...

INT. MICROCHIP VAULT

A black chamber.  We can scarcely make out the endless rows of

shelving, the air purifying equipment, the conveyor belt entering

through its air lock, as machinery folds each priceless microchip

in foil wrappers, stacks them on shelves.  Through the gasket...

...Mac TUMBLES into view, swinging himself neatly DOWN to the

floor, and in a single motion, he is already FLASHING a neon-green

pen light along the shelves of microchips.  We see now the wrappers

are different colors, with different Kanji characters, and Mac is

definitely looking for something special, until...

...he's found it.  A single row, 35 chips, nothing special from

here, but Mac...

...WHIPS out something coiled, SNAPS it to full length, revealing a

strip of shiny black SATIN CLOTH.  Three feet long, little more

than an inch wide.  Carefully, Mac lays the strip down directly

OVER the row of microchips.  And when he lifts it UP again...

...the chips have ADHERED to the underside of the cloth.  In one

deft SNAP of his wrist, he COILS the cloth again, like a yo-yo.

Turns to leave, and...

Oh, yeh.

Tosses a small SACK of something where the chips used to be.  TIM'S

CASCADE BRAND POTATO CHIPS.  SEA SALT AND VINEGAR FLAVOR.

INT. CLEAN ROOM

Mac exiting from the maintenance hatch back into the Clean Room.

No one sees, no one cares.  Hooking up once again, he ambles toward

a door clearly marked EXIT ONLY TO EMPLOYEE LOUNGE - RETURN ONLY

THROUGH SECURITY AREA.

By the door is an employee notice tacked to the wall.  He pretends

to scan it.  A stack of flyers.  He takes one.  Exiting into...

INT. EMPLOYEE LOUNGE

Past a changing area, vending machines, guys bullshitting.  Mac

just strolling along, reading his flyer, as...

A hand.  Touches his shoulder

Mac turns, stares through his opaque VISOR at a well-built SECURITY

OFFICER.  Dead straight eyes.

His eyes cut to the flyer Mac is 'reading'.  Mac hands it to him,

and without a trace of Scottish accent...

INT. GUEST LOBBY

Gin is up to her ears in grief.  There are no less than five COPS

grilling her, taking notes, while the old couple has their second

wind and are SHRIEKING in top form.  The bystander gallery has

grown to maybe three dozen, and they're all getting their word in.

As Gin struggles to cope...

...she keeps looking at the clock.  Darting glances toward the

corridor.  She is freaking out.

Finally.  She can't stand it.  Hands Mac's billfold to one of the

cops, pushes her way through the mob, and...

...TAKES OFF down the corridor, a security guard in belated

pursuit, we go...

...WITH her DOWN the hallway, WHEEL around a corner, flat-out

SPRINTING, SKIDS to a stop at the right doorway and BURSTS INTO...

INT. MEN'S ROOM

An empty washroom.  She listens.  Nothing.

No sound.  Uh-oh.

The security guard BARGES IN.

The guard starts railing at Gin a mile a minute.  She calmly takes

a WAD of bills from her purse.  Hands them to the guy...

He does.  Alone again.

CUT INSIDE the stall.  He is just re-taping the folded clean suit

and hood to the small of his back.

Awkward silence.  He smiles at that, much amused.  Slips on his

jacket.

UNLOCKS the door.  Remembers...

That's not what he forgot.  He pulls OUT the coiled black satin

cloth strip, SNAPS it free, microchips snug to the underside.  And

fits it neatly...

...DOWN his trouser leg.  The perfect tuxedo stripe.

OUT the door.  To meet her gaze.

He goes to her.  Offers his arm.

She takes it, wrapping both hers through.

He opens the door.  Ushers her through...

Follows her out...

Closed door.  Quiet.

INT. CAB, NIHONBASHI DISTRICT - NIGHT

They sit together in the rear of the taxi, as it makes its way

through late night traffic.  She is looking around.

Looking straight ahead.  Contemplative.  She stares at his

profile...

He sighs.  Never looks at her.

She keeps staring.

He thinks.  Admits...

Her turn to think.

Little twist on that.

He still stares straight ahead.  The taxi pulls onto a freeway.

Toward Narita Airport.  Time running out.  And in her dearest, most

vulnerable, voice...

She puts the fingertips of her left hand.  On his chest.  A

silence.  No reaction.

And he smiles.  Turns to her eyes.

She shakes her head.  Uh-uh.

Leans her mouth in for the kill.

And softly.  Fits her mouth to his.  The green eyes close, as

she tastes him.  Nothing predatory in this kiss.  It is tender,

exquisite.  A kiss of deep longing.  Of true love.

His arms slip around her.  And in less than five seconds...

Nobody.  Says.  Nothin'.

INT. MAC'S SUITE - LATE NIGHT

A small bottle.  An ornate label.  Chateau d'Yquem '67.  Gin lifts

it from the table, studies the label.  She wears only a man's

oversized t-shirt.  Our rotating ANGLE reveals the empty bed,

tangled sheets.  Gin looks pretty rumpled herself.

She lifts the bottle, two glasses, a plateful of chocolates and

strawberries, and goes to the sliding glass door overlooking...

...the TERRACE.  Mac sits on a futon at the balcony railing,

overlooking downtown Tokyo.  He wears a thin Japanese robe called

a yukata, and is wrapped in half of a huge down COVERLET from the

bed.  The other half obviously waiting for...

She curls down into the billowing coverlet, just against his body.

Sets her things beside him.

It is a lovely smile.  He studies it for a beat.

She traces her finger along his cheek.

And kisses him.  It takes awhile.  She seems to enjoy it.  With

him, it's harder to tell.  When she pulls back...

...he picks up a chocolate.  Tears it in half.  Offers her the

larger piece.

No answer.  He puts the chocolate into her mouth.  With great

tenderness, he traces the line of her lower lip.  As she swallows.

But he just looks at her.

And leans closer.  Just above a whisper...

He kisses her.  Beautiful and deep, the way he does it.  And

when he pulls back, she is staring at him.  As if at a loss for

something to say.

She swallows.  Because his gaze is unrelenting. As if not

forgetting that she's changed the subject.

She smiles.  His face looks kind now, not formidable at all.  Maybe

she's wondering if she actually likes him.

He does look concerned.  And therefore sweet.  She kisses his nose.

She gets her old smile.  The soft, wicked tease.

He stares at her.  Cocks a finger, like a gun, right between her

eyes.  Pantomimes pulling the trigger.

She pivots, and snuggles her back comfortably into his chest.  He

wraps strong arms around her.  Pulling her close.

Something in the tone.

A flicker.  In her eyes.  And she cuddles back.  As if enjoying the

humor.

Kisses the top of her head.

Her eyes widen.  Just a little.

She turns all the way around.  Their faces are inches apart.  Each

reading the other's eyes.

His turn.  To kiss her nose.

And lowers her gently onto her back.  Still staring in her eyes, he

winds her legs around him.  Her mouth parts, but...

...he fills it with his own.

This conversation.  Is over.

INT. MAC'S SUITE - MORNING

VIEW of the empty terrace, the rumpled, twisted coverlet.  Maybe

they spent all night.  HEAR the shower running full blast in a

distant bathroom.  PULL BACK to see...

Gin, hair wet, wrapped in a plush hotel robe, rapidly and expertly

going through dresser, night stand, closet, sofa cushions, every

goddam thing in the room.  She comes to...

...Mac's tux.  The jacket, rifles the pockets, pats the lining.

The pants now...

...something peculiar. The right leg has no stripe. Touches the

cloth.  Slightly sticky where the stripe should be.  Odd.

ANGLE...the bathroom.  Shower running full BLAST.  But there's no

one in it.

ANGLE...a storage closet.  Mac crouching in the smallspace.  We

see the travel bag.  The luggage tag, VIRGINIA ROMAY, a Darien,

Connecticut address.  The embossed initials VR.  But there is

something else in Mac's hand...

...a prescription bottle.  Prilosec.  And a name, GINGER BAKER.

Chicago address.  Mac puts the pills in the pocket of his robe...

...exits the closet.  Locks the door.

ANGLE...Mac ambling into the bedroom, toweling his hair with one

hand.  Holding his billfold in the other.  Gin is starting a room

service breakfast.  Eggs, sausage, Belgian waffles.  The girl can

eat.

She looks up.  Trademark dry grin...

He stands over her.  Smiling.  What he meant was...

A call.

She stares at him.

And hand. the card to her.  As her eyes move over it...

Without looking up...

Now her eyes come up.  She says nothing.  Hesitant.

She blinks.

The look holds.  He goes to the desk.  Lifts a cellular phone.

TOSSES it to her.

And on his way out the door...

EXT. WHARF, YOKOHAMA - DAY

Gin climbing out of a taxi at a scruffy section of Yokohama's Bund.

Sleazy shops, pachinko parlors, hostess bars, sidewalk noodle

counters, all built along a tall rickety PIER nearly thirty feet

above the pounding surf.  The harbor is gigantic.  Every type and

size of vessel imaginable.

Gin carries a long neoprene-covered tube with watertight seals and

a lightweight bright orange foam cover.  She looks at her slip of

paper.  Then across at the place...KENDO SOUVENIRS, a schlock

kickback parlor, with a tourist bus parked out front.

This can't be right.  Pulls out the cellular phone.  Dials.

Fucking great.

SNAPS the phone shut.  Checks the slip again.  Walks firmly across

the street, through the mobs of tourists, and into...

INT. KENDO SOUVENIRS - DAY

The place is huge, ramshackle, loaded with every piece of tourist

crap imaginable.  The only paintings on display are renderings of

big cats on black velvet.  She winds her way through, to a counter

at the back.  One guy there...

The best we can say for the pudgy, balding fellow in the Hawaiian

shirt and spectacularly baggy trousers, is that he does not seem to

be the guy who is selling you a Monet.  Even a minor one.

She stops.  Jesus.  The guy COUGHS horribly.

She hesitates.

Wow.  He slaps his hand on the table.  Lay it down, toots.

He shrugs.  Lifts straight up, from beneath the counter...

...a brown paper-wrapped rectangle.  Not much larger than two feet

square.  She can't even believe she's here, doing this.  Gestures

to him.  Open it up!

He obliges, COUGHING grossly all the while.  Unwrapped, the

painting

He doesn't blink.

And from within her pocket.  The cellular RINGS.  She takes it

out.  Puts it to her ear.

This gives her pause.  Then, cradling the phone against her

shoulder, she does as she's told.  To see...

Sure is.

She does.  Carefully unfolding several sheets of paper, maps...

Her eyes are flickering questions, but she does as she's told,

cradling the phone with her shoulder.

And she does.  More deftly than we could ever have imagined.  Like

a pro.

A beat.

Her face freezes.  In a pleasant smile.

She turns the sweet plastic smile to Okati.  Hands him the card...

And suddenly, his eyes are keen and quick, and he is no longer some

schmuck in baggy pants.  He takes the card, stares at it comically,

picks up the phone.

She begins to.

But she is.  And she laughs, as she strolls over to the cheesy

handbags.

A beat.

Okati, absorbed by his make-believe phone call, points around the

back.

She turns the corner.  Filthy corridor.  Restrooms at opposite

ends.

A beat of uncertainty.  She looks both ways.

And she DOES.  SPRINTING down the garbage-strewn hallway, throws

OPEN the men's room door, BURSTING IN on...

...a wispy OLD GUY taking a leak through a HOLE in the floor.

The panicked little man STARTLES.  Bolts OUT the door.

Jump?  HEAR now, from the corridor, footfalls POUNDING.  She looks

down through the piss hole.  The surf ROILS thirty feet below.

Oh.  She hops OVER the disgusting hole, boosts herself UP to the

small window, footfalls racing CLOSER, HOISTS herself HALFWAY

through, DROPPING the phone a scary 30 feet to the surf below, as

behind her, the door...

...SLAMS OPEN and she FLIES OUT the window...

WITH her in SLO-MO, kicking and flailing and grasping her shoulder

bag, and she...

HITS the ocean like a ton of bricks.  Disappears.  Comes up,

sputtering in the swirling water, as from out of the shadows of

the pilings...

...an engine ROARS to life, the BLUR of a custom JETSKI, Mac

reaching to scoop the startled girl OUT of the water, and they...

...BLAST OFF, as bullets RAIN helplessly after them.  The AGENTS

shouting into their cellulars, racing in frustration down the pier,

which rapidly vanishes behind us, as...

...Gin hangs onto Mac for dear life.  This baby is REALLY hauling.

He wears an orange waterproof slicker with matching trousers.

Shouts back, against the noise...

She thinks.  Admits, shouting in his ear...

He is heading into deep water, a major shipping channel, points to

one side, and she sees...

...a huge HARBOR PATROL vessel FIRE UP in near distance.  The chase

is ON.  They speed toward the WAKE of a luxury liner, and as she

realizes...

They SLAM INTO the wake HEAD ON, and are AIRBORNE for an amazing

distance, JOLTING back to the surface, RACING toward...

...two gigantic FREIGHTERS which approach each other from opposite

directions.  The Harbor Patrol in hot pursuit, BLASTING its HORN...

As we near the outbound freighter, Mac CUTS his speed.  Now the

Harbor Patrol is really gaining.

Cruising STRAIGHT TOWARD the part side of the outbound freighter,

as the inbound freighter begins to pass it on the far side...

As the Harbor Patrol is nearly ON them, Mac VEERS suddenly AROUND

the stern of the outbound freighter, the Harbor patrol WHEELING

madly to pursue, only to find we are both CAREENING straight AT...

...the starboard side of the inbound freighter, Mac CUTS his wheel

in an adroit nearly right-angle SWERVE, and hears the SCREAMS as

the Harbor patrol...

PLOWS INTO the freighter!  Wasting no time, he ACCELERATES into

maximum BURN, STREAKING toward the immensely crowded harbor and its

thousand vessels.  Gin can't help but look back at the impressive

crash site, mouthing a silent WOW.

Nearing the harbor, Mac CUTS speed completely, drifting between two

huge ships and...

...vanishing from sight.

EXT. SMALL CHANNEL - DAY

The tiny Jetski cruises in a quiet channel, crowded with vessels of

all sizes, tugs, fishing boats, pleasure craft, junks, sampans, all

larger than we are.  Gin clings close to Mac, although it is no

necessary.  More like romantic.  She is still flushed with

the rush.

But he says nothing.  Pulls out a water-tight duffle.  Hands it

back to her, without looking.

She takes the bag, confused.

He means it.

Gin looks around as they float through the maze of watercraft.  No

one seems to be paying much attention.  What the hell.  She unzips

the bag, pulling out...

He never looks around.

She stares at the back of his head.  wondering.  He is stripping

off his slickers.  A neatly-tailored SUIT beneath.

Okay.  She pulls her dress off OVER her head.

She ignores some nearby WHISTLES and SHOUTS.  Begins drying herself

with a fluffy towel from the bag.

Uh-oh.  Paydirt.

She can scarcely

He chuckles a Scottish chuckle.  Cold and warm, at once.

She slips the dry dress OVER her head.

She blinks.  He

He shrugs.

She begins taking off her wet underwear, underneath the dress.  We

suspect unseen hordes crestfallen at her modesty.

He looks around at her.  As if deciding on that.

Jesus.

Staring dead at her eyes.

Are you following?

No smile.  No smile at all.

Holy.  Fucking.  Christ.

We can feel her heart pounding from here.

And leans.  To kiss her mouth.

They have glided up beside the gangway of a gigantic FREIGHTER.  It

is at water level, the steps they use for their tender.  He points

up to the name...

SHIKOKU MARU.  She nods, slowly.  Pulls the Ziploc bag from her

purse.  Hands it over.  He removes the sheets of paper.  Begins to

peruse them...

He glances up.

And gives him the smile. What a gal.

He offers his hand.  She rises, hops lightly to the steps of the

gangway in her bare feet.  He pulls dry shoes from the duffle.  And

as she slips them on...

...he FLIPS a switch, and the Jetski begins to FILL with water, Mac

stepping to the gangway beside her.  They watch...

...the Jetski rapidly SINK out of sight.

No evidence.  A thorough guy.

INT. FREIGHTER HOLD - DAY

Mac and Gin stand inside a gigantic CARGO BAY, watching massive

CONTAINERS being loaded by crane from a dock, through the gaping

HATCH.  The chamber is a vaulted cathedral of steel, painted

hospital green, and Mac's eye moves over all of it, seeming to

inspect every plate, every pan head rivet.

They turn to see a round little man with watering eyes and a very

wide necktie, skipping-down the iron steps.  Bursting with a

salesman's bonhomie, he extends a plump hand...

The little man pauses.  A tic in the well-oiled smile...

Ah.  Like that makes complete sense.  Fingers the gardenia in his

lapel...

I see.

ANGLE...Carlsby leads the way along a narrow catwalk, which ends at

a steel door.  He presses his thumb to the I.D. panel, and speaks

into the voice box...

The door CLANGS open.  They go through it, as a gangway leads

toward an open five-foot-thick VAULT DOOR, where two ARMED GUARDS

rise from their seats.  Carlsby ignores them as if they were

furniture.  THUMPS the door...

They do.

Carisby glances to Mac.  He is stone.

Ah.  Carlsby leads them through the open door, into...

...the maximum-security HOLD.  Primo.  The steel coated with sleek,

matte, black all-grip paint.  Tubby points up...

No reaction.  Mac does

Wine.

Actually.  He has.

Carlsby gets the romance of it all.

And turns to the man.  With laser, disapproving eyes.

The man beams.  Gestures to a series of PLATFORMS, each SWAYING at

different heights, in different directions.

Pointing once more...

...a huge circular hatch cut into the hull.  Mac's eyes stare

blankly at it.  A long beat.  He pronounces it all...

And then turns once more.

Mac.  Thinks this over.

INT. PASSENGER DECK - DAY

Carlsby ushering the couple along a plushly-appointed hallway.  A

secret oasis of refinement in the heart of the massive freighter.

He opens a burnished door, into...

...an elegant SUITE.  Cherrywood panels, spacious windows with

views of the harbor.  The finest furnishings.  It is breathtaking.

Even...

Mac pulls from his pocket the folded sheets that had once been

taped to the back of Okati's Monet.  Peruses them casually.

And looks up.  To a man dumbstruck.  By coincidence.

INT. CESSNA - DAY

Looking DOWN on California's San Joaquin Valley from 12,000 feet,

as air RUSHES past our open door.

PULL BACK to see them both in jumping suits.  He's checking her

gear.  She's eyeing the expansive grid of fields below.

He clips a tether from his harness to hers.

She folds her arms across her chest.  Rebellious.  He smiles at her

tenderly.  Nods, okay.

She stares at him.

Maybe.  He's still smiling.

Stares in her eyes.

She stares back.  Dead straight.

His smile is light, affectionate.  Gently, he backs her to the edge

of the doorway...

She THROWS her arms around his neck.  Holds him close.

Vulnerable and touchingly real.  His arms slide around her.

And JUMPS, Gin SHRIEKING in his arms, as we...

FOLLOW them, TUMBLING in FREE FALL, until he releases her, and bot

EXTEND their arms and legs, as if flying, as if gliding face down,

her shriek CONTINUING.  He floats at the end of their tether, a few

feet above her.  And at last...

...her SCREAMING STOPS.  We see the pure adrenaline rush.  Shouts

back...

EXT. HILLTOP, MARIN COUNTY - DAY

Woods, rolling hills, a dirt path.  Mac stands by a sign at a

crossroads, names, arrows, STINSON BEACH, BOLINAS, MT. TAMALPAIS,

MILL VALLEY.  There is a phone booth nearby.  He holds a stopwatch,

looking down the path, as...

...Gin runs into view, steady stride, breathing hard, sheened with

sweat.  Approaching him, she slows to a stop.  Hands on her knees,

catching her wind. He CLICKS the watch.

She sends a nasty smile, thanks a bunch.  But maybe she likes the

compliment, after all.

EXT. MAC'S CABIN, BOLINAS - NIGHT

Rustic cabin in moonlight.  Ringed by woods.  Middle of nowhere,

which is where Mac likes it.  As we approach the lit window, we

hear two oddly-matched sounds.  splashing water.  And the HISS of a

violent POWER TOOL.  We MOVE THROUGH the window, into...

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Two figures stand in the shower, spray SOAKING their shorts and

tank tops.  Gin is operating a sleek WELDER, trying to perform

micro-surgery on a DARTBOARD which Mac waves in all directions at

the end of a short pole.

She blinks the spray from her eyes, and deftly SEARS the wire

dividing those two numbers on the board.  As Mac keeps waving it,

she goes off line.  Concentrates.  Gets it right.  The wire PEELS

away...

EXT. CABIN - DAY

CLOSE on Gin operating a small steamshovel with a loading

attachment on the front.  It is mounted with two 2 x 4's, set

close together, protruding from the loader.  She maneuvers the

wooden prongs toward a pile of big rocks.  But as she positions

to scoop one up, her vehicle SWAYS WILDLY, and we PULL BACK to

see it is...

...dangling from a CRANE, operated by Mac.  Gin stays with it,

concentrates, and on the next pass she glides her boards UNDER a

huge rock, LIFTING it awkwardly.  Ignoring the bumpy ride, she

pivots, and deposits her prize in place atop what has become...

...a WALL of stones.

He gives this some reflection.

EXT. OCEAN - NIGHT

Mac and Gin paddle KAYAKS, side by side.  A full moon slams off

the rolling surface of the sea.  Light chop, enough to bob pretty

strong once they stop paddling.  His stopwatch GLOWS.  He says

only...

And she FLIPS OVER, submerging her head and torso, and we go...

...WITH her underwater, upside-down in the kayak, she STRUGGLES to

FREE a group of tools which are tethered to her wetsuit.  Fumbling

to BREAK the seal on a slender TUBE, which BURSTS, sending a GLOW

of yellow-green LIGHT in all directions.  She fits the flexible

tube around her head like a headlamp, pulling out...

...a small ELECTRIC FAN with side HANDGRIPS of black metal.

Buffeted by the current, Gin manages to flip a small switch on the

housing of the fan, and...

...nothing happens.  Again.  Nothing.  And again.  SHIT!  With a

supreme effort, she tries to ROLL herself upright, but...

...can't quite make it.  Blind PANIC now, blowing bubbles, FLAILING

at the kayak, which suddenly...

ROLLS upright, manipulated by Mac.  She sputters and tries to

THROW the tethered fan at him, but it snaps back and SLAMS her

across the shoulder.  She is furious.

EXT. WOODS - DAY

Gin in a clearing, arms at her sides, a determined look.  Mac is

somewhere just behind us.

She nods, got it.  Focused.  suddenly, in the clearing before her,

a HOSTAGE SILHOUETTE TARGET pops up, the outline of a terrorist

shielding himself with a hostage, Gin's arm rising with a BLUR

and...

...BLAMM, BLAMM, BLAMM!!!  The paper terrorist is NAILED in the

head.  Two out of three.  She lets out a thin stream of air.  Proud

of herself, but too cool to gloat.

She turns slowly.

His enigmatic, yet fond, smile.

A quiet wink.

INT. CABIN - NIGHT

CLOSE on Gin leaning back at a 45 degree angle.  She is sweating.

This is hard.  HEAR a SLAM-THWOCK!  And ANOTHER.  PULL BACK to

reveal...

She is climbing UP the inside of the angled A-frame CEILING, using

hand rods with powerful SUCTION cups, and similar suction devices

on the balls of her feet.  A human spider, inching up the wall with

everything she's got.  She SLAMS the next hand rod down, and it...

...slips.

...as she TUMBLES eighteen feet to...

DISAPPEAR in an ocean of STYROFOAM packing bubbles, which EXPLODE

in all directions like popcorn in a nuclear accelerator.

She has totally VANISHED.  Buried alive.

Mac is wading into the sea of plastic bits, DIGGING her body out

with his bare hands.  Once more, she comes up sputtering.

He's holding her in his arms.  Leans close.

He kisses her.

Something in the way he looks at her.  Her return gaze is naked.

It looks like love.

And kisses her again.  Her eyes close.

EXT. FRONT PORCH - MORNING

Mac sits alone at a table, sipping coffee, reading Barron's.   A

short-wave radio is playing BBC World Service.  Leaning against an

open laptop, is...

...Mac's stopwatch.  He glances up at it.  What he sees makes him

reach into a duffle at his feet, withdraw...

...a rectangular gun-metal gray DEVICE.  Looks like a cross between

a remote control clicker and a large cell phone.  Turns it ON.  The

power display GLOWS green.

EXT. HILLTOP - MORNING

Gin running alone.  Up the dirt path we've seen before.  Ahead, the

crossroads, the sign.  The lonely phone booth.

EXT. FRONT PORCH

Mac tuning the device, which is an advance-design SCANNER.  We HEAR

overlapping CONVERSATIONS through bursts of STATIC...

INT. PHONE BOOTH

Gin at the phone.  Inserts her credit card.  Catches her breath.

EXT. FRONT PORCH

Mac HEARS a phone RINGING over the scanner.  Punches RECORD, PLUGS

the scanner INTO his laptop.

Mac's laptop screen in printing.  WEBBER ASSURANCE...HECTOR CRUZ...

The line goes DEAD.

So do Mac's eyes.  Click the scanner OFF.

INT. PHONE BOOTH

Gin in her throaty, playful voice...

A pause.  Her voice is smiling.  Not her eyes.

A longer beat.

Her eyes are stone cold.  We've never seen her like this.  She

looks like Mac.

She's pulling out a different piece of plastic.  A drug store phone

card.

Her cold eyes through his chuckle.

And hangs up.  Collects her thoughts.  Inserts the phone card.

Dials from memory.  Fifteen digits.  She must be calling Mars.

At last...

...a man's VOICE.  In a strange sing-song language.

SMASH CUT TO...

EXT. TIENANMEN SQUARE, BEIJING - NIGHT

Late night, mostly youngsters strolling the unfathomable vastness

of the square.  At what seems an immeasurable distance, the huge

illuminated portrait of Mao zedong hangs from the Gate of Heavenly

Peace.  The scale of this place is unique in all the world.  PAN to

a nearby parked...

...Mercedes.  COL. QIU of the People's Liberation Army, lounges at

the wheel in full uniform.  Talks into his cellular...

He listens, winces.  We can hear Gin's voice yelling at him in

Mandarin, dishing out a major piece of her mind.

He doesn't like her attitude.  And there's plenty of it.

A phalanx of TROOPS march past.  The Colonel turns his face to

shadow.  Drops his voice...

EXT. ZHONGNANKAI, BEIJING - LATE NIGHT

The walled compound where the Politburo's elite work and live.

From an open gateway...

...the MINISTER OF FINANCE appears, flanked by bodyguards in the

drab green of PRC police.  They step onto the street and turn into

a narrow hutong.  Down the alleyway comes a young man walking his

bicycle through shadow.  Nearing us, he raises his right hand,

and...

...SHOOTS each bodyguard TWICE through the chest, DROPS the bike,

LURCHES at the Minister with something cylindrical and gleaming,

and...

...SPRAYS the cowering official's FACE with something that makes

him SCREAM in pain, the assassin RUNNING down the hutong for his

life, as a fallen guard...

...SHOOTS him in the back, and he goes SPRAWLING, SKIDDING, face

down.  Lifeless.

INT. OPHTHALMOLOGIST'S OFFICE, BEIJING - NIGHT

Col. Qiu walks beside a jaunty ophthalmologist, DR. HONGWEI, who

is turning ON lights in the darkened office as they go.  Behind

them, two PLA SOLDIERS half-carry the agonized minister.  Into an

examination room...

...the minister gently set into an examining chair.  The doctor

tilts the face up, shines a light into the minister's eyes, which

makes him GROAN.  Eye drops now, which make the man YELP in pain.

HONGWEI now moves the RETINAL SCANNER into position, resting the

minister's chin on the slot provided.  Turns it ON.  The machine's

panel FLASHES numbers in red lights.  Hongwei looks into the box

from the reverse angle, to view...

...a red LASER SCAN moving across the pupil vertically, then

retracing its path horizontally, left to right, right to left,

up and down, at speed.

Hongwei moves to a computer monitor with a graphic rendering of

the retina, clicks the keypad to section off a slice of the

graphic, and ENLARGES the section 100 times.  Looks like pixels.

Back to the scanner.  Touch a button, and...

...a COMPACT DISC pops out of the disc drive.  He places it in a

box, telling the minister...

The minister squints up, painfully.

The doctor LAUGHS.  The minister seethes.  But Colonel Qiu...

Has his mind.  On business.

EXT. GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE, SAN FRANCISCO - LATE NIGHT

CLOSE on Gin's gloved hand, holding something we can scarcely see,

as MIST floats up between us.  It is a carabiner with a nylon rope

attached, and she CLIPS it to a thick wire.

PULL BACK to see her in climbing harness, scaling a nearly-vertical

CABLE, three feet in diameter.  Enveloped in fog which reveals,

then conceals.

PULL WAY BACK to see him below her.  The two of them climbing

the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE.  They are near the top, more than 700

feet above the silvery black BAY.  A precarious, dizzying sight.

Gin keeps her focus on the small railed PLATFORM just above her.  A

gutsy gal.

She's at the platform.

Unclips one last time.  This won't be easy.  Throws her rope

OVER the railing, and to her surprise, Mac braces himself with

his legs...

...lifts her from the waist with strong hands, boosting her easily

to the platform.  Grateful, she hates to confess it.

And he swings lightly up beside her.  The fog has rolled past.

There are several million stars.  Transcendent beauty.  She slows

her breath...

And from his contoured backpack, he pulls a bottle of Cristal.

Flutes, wrapped in velvet.  He POPS the cork in one motion, and it

SAILS to its watery doom.  She can't help but watch.

One more motion to pour both glasses.  Hands one to her.  Toasts...

He clicks her glass.  She stares straight in his eye.  Shows no

surprise, no fear...

And takes a sip.  Cool as a goose.  Licks her lips.

But he's not drinking.  Only staring.  The wind has picked up.

She takes another sip.  Good wine.

She toasts him.

Slowly, he reaches to an inside pocket, watching to see if she

flinches.  Her eyes do flicker.  And follow.  He withdraws not a

pistol, but a handful of...

Nine DIAMONDS, so large, so exquisite, she has to keep her eyes

from bugging.  Wow.

Holy.  Christ.

His eyes travel her body...

And he leans.  Looks in her eyes.

She liked that.  Maybe a lot.

No answer.

He toasts Blessed Japan to the East.  Takes a hit.

He means this.  She is transfixed.

She looks down at the diamonds in his palm.  His fist CLOSES.

He turns his fist UPSIDE-DOWN.  And LETS GO!  She GASPS as the

brilliant stones FALL toward the sea.  Watching, watching, long

after the moonlit glimmer has evaporated.  A hush.

INT. SHIKOKU MARU - DAY

CLOSE on two open PASSPORTS.  The names say BANQUO MACDUFF and

ISADORA DUNCAN.  The faces are Mac and Gin.

PULL BACK to see Mac and Gin dressed as tropical tourists.  She

hangs on his arm.

The steward doesn't get it.  Gin shrugs, sorry.

Mac consents.  A little wary.

The steward checks his watch.

EXT. DOCK, COLOMBO, SRI LANKA - DAY

Mac and Gin stroll down the gangway, to the seedy, dangerous-

looking wharf.  At the bottom of the gangway...

...a wooden board to mark the whereabouts of guests.  Each

stateroom has a peg, which can be moved to ABOARD or ASHORE.  Mac

moves the peg for 16...

...to the ABOARD position.

And off they go.

INT. SMALL PLANE - NIGHT

Mac in his jump suit piloting the Dehaviland DHC-53 across the

endless black of the Indian Ocean.  For the moment, he seems alone.

Then...

He means a tiny grouping of LIGHTS.  Way down there, against the

darkness.  He switches on the AUTOPILOT.  Goes back to...

...Gin, waiting in her jump suit, sitting on a large pack of gear

just beside the window of the jump door.  Next to her, a pack that

is even larger.  No fear in her eyes tonight.  Pure adrenaline.

As she stands, he begins to strap the huge pack ONTO her body.

Jesus.  With her chute, and the other gear attached, the load makes

us uneasy.  Not her.

He points to an altimeter device on his wrist.  It says 12,000

feet.  She cuts him a look.

He pulls out an identical device.  Strapping it to her wrist...

He straps the even-larger gear pack to himself.  Checks the path of

the tiny lights far below.  Then, looks in her eyes...

Not merely reassurance.  Affection.  Something connective between

them.  You are my partner.  Her eyes send back that personal bond,

and she nods.  I can do this.  Good girl.

He pulls on his oxygen mask, goggles.  She does the same.  He OPENS

the door, air BLASTING in.  One more look down below, and he holds

up ten fingers.  Counts them down, nine...eight...

She moves to the edge.  Watching him.  And on zero, she...

ARCHES out INTO the starry VOID, and we go...

WITH HER, the incomparable RUSH of freefall, straining to see him

FOLLOW, skillfully altering his position to gain on her, coming

close.  She is looking between him and her altimeter, as...

...his oxygen tank FALLS AWAY, and she CUTS hers loose, the air

RUSHING past her, she looks DOWN...

...the lights below are beginning to take the shape of the

freighter.  Back up to Mac, as he...

PULLS his CHUTE, it is black and square, and JOLTS him to what

seems like a full STOP far above her, and she YANKS her cord,

but...

...nothing.  It doesn't open.  She is ROCKETING down, looking back

up to see Mac make an exaggerated CUTTING sign across his body, and

she closes her eyes, PULLS her secondary chute, which...

POPS open, JARRING her violently, and she GASPS with the shock.  He

is well above her now, she isoff course, frantically trying to

manipulate her trajectory, seeing him swooping closer, the

freighter LOOMS in distance, she looks down and suddenly...

...the sea is RUSHING at her, she FIGHTS her braking mechanism,

SHOUTING at herself...

...and SLAMS INTO the water, PLUNGING down, twisting, disoriented

CUTTING her chute loose, struggling not to get tangled, in a panic

to BREAK her light tube, which...

...GLOWS yellow-green, illuminating the freezing depths, she FITS

it around her head, fights now to pull out the small ELECTRIC FAN

we've seen before, KICKING herself toward the surface, fighting

against the weight of her gear pack, she...

...flips the switch, and the fan becomes a PROPELLER which ROCKETS

her upward, but she loses her hold on one handgrip, tries

desperately to hang on with one hand, but it...

...PULLS FREE, goes SHOOTING off into the blackness without her,

one instant of TERROR in her eyes, and...

Mac is THERE, diving at her with his propeller, she GRASPS his legs

in a death grip, and suddenly, they are...

AT the surface, Gin GASPING for air, and he CUTS his propeller,

CRADLES her body with one strong arm, murmuring in her ear...

Her eyes are wild.

She sees the FREIGHTER now, a black mountain CUTTING the sea, a

huge WAKE pluming from its bow.  She grabs his waist with all

she's got.

And he KICKS the propeller to LIFE, they ZOOM off, straight AT the

towering wake and burst THROUGH it, RACING to the freighter's

looming hull, speeding alongside, Mac looking up to find...

...a series of metal RUNGS, which begin twelve feet above the water

line, climbing the dizzying height to the freighter's deck, far

above.  Mac has a Kevlar rope with a GRAPPLING HOOK, and as he

reaches the rungs, he...

...THROWS it high, one of the pronged hooks CATCHING on a rung

twenty feet above them...

And he LETS GO of the propeller, PULLING both of them, laden with

gear, OUT of the water with sheer brute strength.  PLANTING his

feet against the outward curve of the hull, he CLIMBS with all his

strength, hand over hand, until he finally...

...GRASPS the bottom rung.  He PULLS them up, until she can GRAB

ON.  They hold tight to their rung for a beat.  He attaches them

both with metal carabiner clips.

And pulls himself up to the second rung, so that he is standing an

the first.  Offers her his hand...

Suit yourself.  They begin to climb up the rungs, like a tilted

backwards ladder, re-attaching their clips as they go.

Up, up.  And stop.  They are nearly halfway to the top.  Looking

across the curved hull to...

...a large circular HATCH.  Thirty feet away.  The goal.  Mac

pulls from his pack...

...their SUCTION CUP gear.  With practiced speed, they fasten cups

to the balls of their feet, take hold of the hand rods with cups

attached, and Mac takes the lead as they begin to...

...move LATERALLY across the hull's surface toward the hatch.  Mac

is amazingly agile at the arduous process, scuttling sideways like

a crab across the precariously tilted-back hull.  Gin is deter-

mined, but falls well behind, intent on making every suction seal

solid one.  Dark water RACES by beneath her.,  By the time she looks

up at the hatch...

He is gone.

She looks UP sharply.  He is ABOVE the hatch, attached to the hull

by the balls of his feet, hanging down like a bat.  Noting her

astonishment...

That it is.  He has pulled a thick cylinder from his pack.  It's a

battery-operated AIR WRENCH, and with a menacing WHIRR, only

partially masked by the ship's wake, he begins to swiftly POP all

the rivets around the hatch.

Gin has pulled out the slender WELDING TOOL we saw in the shower,

and begins CUTTING through the metal seals around the hatch's rim.

At thecrucial moment...

Which she BARELY does, as the hatch door PLUMMETS past her to the

sea.  BIG splash.  Gone.  When she turns back, Mac is already

THROUGH the opening and she follows, their yellow-green headlamps

partially revealing...

...the maximum-security HOLD.  We've seen this with Carlsby.  The

fork lift.  The shadowy multitude of PLATFORMS on their gimbals,

all SWAYING, in different directions with the plunging of the ship.

Gin just stands, staring everywhere, like she's broken into Fort

Knox.  The ROAR of the engines is louder here, and he moves close

to her to speak beneath it...

Oh.  Slightly embarrassed at her lack of split-second efficiency,

she tries to find the thing in her gear.  After watching her fumble

for a bit...

...he just reaches in and pulls it out.  A small LANTERN which he

FLICKS on, brilliantly ILLUMINATING the entire hold.  Scans the

platforms...polnts to a CRATE wrapped in 4-ply heavy duty plastic

membrane.

He's heading toward the swaying platforms...

He is climbing onto a lower platform, easily vaulting up to the

magic crate.  She follows, but it isn't as easy as he's made it

look.  She has to scramble, almost falling.  He's already pulled

from his gear...

...six rubber POUCHES.  She hands him her welding tool, and he

begins attaching the pouches to the top and sides of the crate.

The plunging ship has the platform really rocking.

She stares at him.

His eyes come UP.  So fast that her breath stops.  He looks plenty

angry.

She swallows.  Hard.

He watches the effect of that play across her eyes.

And goes back to work.  She pauses a beat.  Then pulls out two

lengths of Kevlar rope.  Begins securing their platform to the one

above, to minimize the amount of sway.  As she struggles with this,

she sees him finish by welding a very small gray BOX to the top of

the crate.

When he glances up, he sees her staring at the box.

He touches the device.  It BEEPS.  A light glows RED.

He rises.  JUMPS down to the floor.

Oh.

And heads off toward the fork lift.  Finish up?  She looks at

the rubber pouches.  They seem finished to her.  Tugs at a couple.

On pretty firmly.  Across the way, we HEAR the fork lift turn its

engine OVER.

She hurriedly secures the last of her Kevlar lines.

He is driving up in the rickety fork lift.  Weaving around crates

and equipment.

He hops lightly from the fork lift, reaches up, and she jumps down

INTO his arms.  Quickly, the switch places, Gin climbing into the

idling fork lift, as Mac clambers up to UNBOLT the crate's pallet

with his air wrench...

Gin moves the fork lift into position.  Mac bracing his legs

against neighboring cargo, using all his strength to hold our

crate steady.  He is

She brings the fork UP.  The crate sways slightly.  She lines up

her prongs against the pallet's receiving holes...

...and slips them straight IN.  First try.

She LIFTS the crate, but the boat LURCHES, and she nearly LOSES it

off the fork.

But she doesn't.  SWINGS her load around now.  Heading for the open

hatchway, the roiling sea racing by.  Picking up SPEED, slightly...

By now she is really ROLLING toward the wide open spaces...

He POUNCES off the platform, FLYING after the lift as it

ACCELERATES THROUGH the opening...

...TIPPING at the hatchway lip, the crate sliding OFF the prongs,

our forklift TUMBLING OUT the hatch to the sea, just as Mac...

...SNATCHES Gin by her HAIR, pulling her FREE of the falling

forklift, CATCHING the rim of the hatchway with his free hand, Gin

SCREAMING in fright and pain, BLINDLY grabbing his arm to be...

...jerked BACK to safety.

Clutching Mac, she watches the sea behind them.  Where the crate

and the forklift disappeared.

Her head WHIPS around.  Aghast.

Her life.  Flashes before her eyes.  As behind the ship...

...the crate BOBS to the surface.  We can see the tiny red light on

the transponder from here.

She WHIPS back, and starts POUNDING at him with her fists.  He is

laughing so hard, he takes a few good shots before he can GRASP her

wrists.  She SPITS in his face.  He strikes back by...

...kissing her hard.  She struggles for a beat.

And then she lets him.

When they finish, he reaches to UNZIP her jumping suit.  All the

way.  Pulls it down gently, revealing...

...her evening gown.  A wrinkle-free material which slips down

across her legs from where it had been bunched across her hips.

He is unzipping his outfit as well, revealing formal wear of his

own.  He stuffs the suits into his gear pack, removing only...

...her evening bag and shoes.  Then lifting both packs, he...

...FLINGS them into the black ocean.  Gone.

So he turns.  She looks really stunned.  And scared.

She points.  To where no suction things are lying.

His eyes WIDEN.

And points.  To where they are.

She tilts her head.  Gives him a great smile.  Is he enraged?  His

dry grin says, not hardly.

Then again.  You can never tell.

EXT. FREIGHTER DECK - NIGHT

Expansive barely-lit deck under a canopy of stars.  A silver-haired

couple in immaculate evening attire stroll alone, he is humming to

barely-audible dance music from a distant lounge.  She clings to

his arm, it is romantic.  Until they reach the railing where he

turns, and says something quietly in German...

She stiffens.  Pulls her arm away from his.  She sneers coldly,

calls him a name in German, and he UNLOADS on her, a barrage of

German-language INVECTIVE that would melt a tank.  She absorbs the

abuse without flinching, turns toward the rail, HAWKS and...

...SPITS over the side.  Strides away from him.  He watches her go.

Then...

...SPITS over the side himself.  And follows her.

Half a beat.

Mac's head APPEARS above the rail.  Just where they spit.  Not a

mark on him.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

Our old German couple are DANCING wonderfully in each other's arms

Inspiring.  PAN a dozen really old couples dancing to the three-

piece Filipino ensemble, until we come to...

Gin and Mac spinning slowly, flawlessly, their eyes telling the

surrounding geezers that they are very much in love.  We CLOSE to

hear their sweet murmurings...

She blinks.  Hit by a ton of bricks.

He WHIRLS her in a tight spin.  The geriatic Germans can only watch

and envy.

She is imagining.

Gin likes the ring of that.  Green eyes dance with delight.

They look over.  The officious STEWARD from this afternoon.  Now in

black tie.

Mac turns Gin so that she can send the boob a lazy smile...

Mac turns her once more, so that he faces the flummoxed steward

across her bare shoulder...

Trademark smile.

You twit.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Our couple moving down the softly-lit hallway, past the burnished

doors of luxury suites.  Her arms wrapped around one of his, their

bodies close together.

She sighs.

He glances down.  Really?  Really.

He thinks about this.  And then...

EXT. DECK - NIGHT

Mac leads her along the empty moonlit deck to...

...the BOWSPRIT, a long, narrow platform, ringed by a flimsy rail,

it juts far out above a churning sea.  The whipping of the wind

makes it seem all the more precarious.

Holds out his hand.  She hesitates.

Gives her the smile.  She puts her hand in his, and they hop

UP to the platform.  Walk its length to the very end.  He turns

now, leans casually against the fragile railing.  They are inches

apart.

Gin looks down at the plume of wake leaping off the bow.

She looks up.  To his eyes.  Into them.

And tilts his head.  Just to one side.

His head tilts.  Just a little farther.

Holds the look.

His face absolutely neutral.  Unreadable.

He falls silent.

No smile at her lips.  Strictly business.

She looks him up and down.

Now he smiles.  First time.

And now.  She has his interest.  She can see that.

He thinks this over.

She is not impressed.  Or afraid.  He grins...

This.  He likes.  So much that he leans to kiss her, with

surprising tenderness.

Her hard stare.  And then, she smiles.  Just barely.  Still in his

arms...

This is the most taken with her that he has ever looked.  She leans

up and kisses him.  Whispers...

EXT. STREET, SHIHLIN DISTRICT, TAIPEI - LATE NIGHT

Ugly section of an ugly town.  Unmarked warehouses, alleyways

teeming with food stalls.  HEAR a motorcycle approach, and see...

...Gin driving, Mac sits behind her.  Going real fast, maybe she's

showing off, we FOLLOW them DOWN a blind alley, as she smoothly

WHEELS them into...

...an open FREIGHT ELEVATOR.  She climbs off, he doesn't.  As Gin

goes to work the controls, Mac sees a cat curled in the corner,

mewing softly.

The elevator JOLTS to life.

They CLANG upward.  Mac seems utterly relaxed.  Gin paces a little,

hugging herself.  Her features tense.

She blinks up.  He is straddling the bike.  Smiling at her.

Ah.  Well...

He seems to mean that.  And it seems to melt her a little.  She

sags against the wall, closing her eyes, as...

...they JOLT to a stop.  She PULLS the heavy LEVER, and the door

SLIDES noisily open, to reveal...

...a gigantic LOFT.  She flicks on a dim light, but we see only

part of the cavernous space.  She strolls, Madame Chiang trotting

along behind.  Mac follows, looking around, then down to see...

...a pile of MAIL, cables, packages.  The unopened MAILING TUBE we

saw in the Hancock Tower penthouse.  He crouches, lifts the tube in

his hands...

He nods to himself.  Guess so.  He rises to see her framed against

the gaping starlit opening of a huge LOADING DOOR.  The twinkling

island lies below.  But here, Gin stares down at...

...an elaborate architectural MODEL.  Fifteen feet across, it

features an imposing yellow, pagoda-roofed BUILDING, built into

the side of a model MOUNTAIN.  Formal gardens, fountains, tiny

Kuomintang flags.  Stretching away from the building, a large

portion of the CITY, with shops and alleyways elaborately detailed.

As Mac joins her...

He bends to lift UP the detachable roof.  All the rooms are

detailed within, down to exhibit cases.

She takes him by the hand, and leads him toward the gaping doorway,

walking straight toward it...

And just at the edge of it...

They jump THROUGH the opening.  And VANISH.

Our ANGLE closes on the doorway, to see OUT now, sitting like a

jewel against the hillside...

...the NATIONAL PALACE MUSEUM, looking exactly like the model.  The

town spread out beyond.  Just as in the model.  And now we TILT

sharply DOWN to see...

...a loading PLATFORM, suspended above the island, only a few feet

below our opening.  Like a balcony without a railing.  Mac and Gin

already sinking down onto a waiting futon.

Looks like he's made his pick.  Among limited options.

INT. LOFT - SUNRISE

CLOSE on the MODEL MUSEUM in early light.  Propped against it, the

unrolled Vermeer.  Pinned to the painting, a note we can't read.  In

the B.G., HEAR what sounds like the rattling of a SUBWAY TRAIN,

which runs a short distance and STOPS.  We TILT ANGLE now, to

see...

...through the sunlit opening of the loading door.  Mac's head

APPEARS, peeking up over the lip.

LOST in another brief subway rumble.  He lightly VAULTS up through

the doorway.  Looks around, no Gin.  Goes to the model.  Lifts the

note pinned to the Vermeer...

Stumped.  Not in his cultural database.  He looks at the model, to

see that the stretch of city between museum and mountain has been

lifted away, revealing...

...an underground RAILWAY TUNNEL between the two.  Mac examines the

tiny train, the tracks, the winding route.  From the side walls,

well above the tracks, huge VENTILATION PIPES open onto the tunnel.

Starting at the museum end, they are labeled VENT #1, and so on.

There are five.  The last one shortly before...

...the mountain.  Where a cavernous opening is labeled BARRACKS.

Tiny toy soldiers kneel on a landing, rifles in position to shoot

at the oncoming train.  And as Mac studies this curiously...

...the nearby SUBWAY RATTLES the walls once more.  Sounds like it's

in the room, somehow.  Mac rises.  Saunters across the loft, and we

see for the first time the enormity of this space.  Suddenly, the

floor ends, and we are looking down nearly thirty feet onto...

...a spacious HANGAR, outfitted with 150 feet of RAILWAY TRACK, at

the far end of which sits a full-sited TRAIN CAR, exactly like the

one in the model.  And just below us...

...Gin crouches on a concave platform of corrugated metal, eighteen

feet above the track.  She holds a remote control device, which she

uses to REV the train's engine, far down the line.  She looks

really tense.

She startles slightly.  Shuts OFF the train's engine.  As she looks

up to him now, the silence is noticeable.  He crouches down, only a

foot or so above her...

He's clueless.  But smiling.

He leans down.  Strokes her hair very gently.

She looks up into his eyes.  But she can't smile.

Staring in his eyes.  And just as softly back...

He holds the look.  Very strong and very gentle...

Is it?

No answer.  Effortlessly, he hops down to join her.  Never losing

eye contact.

Settles next to her.  Bodies touching.

Okay?  She nods, slowly.  Her eyes moving over his face.  Maybe

more feelings going through her than she can sort out.

This overwhelms.  Even Mac.

She is unfastening the small pack at her feet...

So Mac looks down the line.  At the train car.

She pulls from the pack four thick DISCS, each about eight inches

in diameter, each with a toggle switch and a wrist loop.  She

starts to put two of them on...

He gestures at the train, the track, the hangar...

Flicks ON her remote.  Down the track the engine REVS.  Like crazy.

CLICKS the remote, the train LEAP5 forward, 36 MPH never seemed so

fast!  She has a split-second to LEAP down, the train SAILS beneath

her, Gin's feet GRAZE the back end of the platform at the rear of

the car, she SWIPES DESPERATELY with the magnets, can't connect,

and is THROWN into a ROLL along the side of the tracks.

She's UP on her knees, watching the train SLAM into the massive

blue PADS at the end of the track.  She is bruised, shaken, but

most of all, really worried and

She pulls out the remote...

The train ROCKETS backward, straight PAST where she kneels, to

BRAKE at the start of the track once more.  She nods up to Mac,

who is strapping on his magnets.  He crouches, nods, ready.  And

the train...

...BLASTS toward him, he counts, JUMPS, and SLAMS ONTO the ROOF of

the train, which PLOWS into the heavy padding, FLINGING him twenty

feet like a rag doll to land in a HEAP.

He lies still.  Then blinks, surprised he's alive.  HEARS a rich

whiskey LAUGHTER down the track.

And as he pulls himself up.  She is staring at him, from her

knees...

...with what can only be described as love.

EXT. NATIONAL PALACE MUSEUM, TAIPEI - DAY

AERIAL VIEW down toward the sweeping pagoda roofs of the MUSEUM,

the formal gardens, the fountains, the tree-lined driveway.  CLOSE

now, as a cab pulls up, a couple emerges...

She is first.  Chanel suit with an

endless legs.  She helps him from the taxi, a white-haired geezer

who seems well past 90, fumbling with his walking stick, and making

quick, erratic, bird-like glances in every direction.

She takes his arm for support.  Murmurs in his ear...

Gives him a full-tongue KISS in the ear, which has bystanders

noticing.  Starts to help him up the stairs, still whispering

close...

In answer he GRABS her ass, and she YELPS with delight, attract-

ing attention all around.  His turn to whisper, as he massages

her backside...

He stops.  Gives the long legs a dubious twice-over.

INT. MUSEUM - DAY

Mac leaning on her arm, as they pass case after case.  Bronzes,

jades, lacquer work.  Every object exquisite, priceless.

She cuddles close to him.  They approach a tour group, the female

guide speaking in four European languages.  Really loud.

He stops, drowned out by the tour guide, rhapsodizing over an urn.

Butts into her rap...

The woman gets

And walks on.  Confides to Gin...

GRABS her bottom once more, altering her voice slightly on...

A separate display room.  A single steel pedestal.  Under the

smart-glass security case, one single object.  It is a fragile,

yellowed fragment of bone.  The shoulder blade of an ox.  Covered

with tiny script.

No tourists in the display room.  A velvet rope is up.  Three

GUARDS mill at the entrance.  This exhibit is off-limits.

A sign explains, SORROWFUL TO INFORM ORACAL BONE CLOSE FOR TRAVEL

EXIBITION UNTIL IS NOVEMBER.

She is pulling out her coin purse, as they stand by the rope.

Unzipping it slowly...

As her shaking 'elderly' companion SPASMS, knocking the purse OUT

of her hand, it CLATTERS to the floor, sending a hundred coins

ROLLING in all directions.  Some under the rope.

And collapses to the hardwood floor in search of the coins, HOWLING

as he BANGS his knees.  Some bystanders hurry to help.  And one of

the guards.  As Mac tries to crawl under the rope to pursue

coins...

...the guard STOPS him with a firm hand, pointing at the pidgen-

English sign.  Meanwhile, calmly,

...Gin crouches down to retrieve coins, the short skirt riding

recklessly high on her upper thighs.  The two remaining guards

hurry to help her.  Mac's guard, bystanders, all transfixed by the

marginal preservation of her modesty.  Noticing the eye-lines all

around, she confides to the nearest guard...

Unnoticed, Mac is BANGING his wristwatch, which seems to have

broken.  CLOSE on him now, manipulating a glide point DEVICE on

the side of the watch, and we RACK FOCUS to see...

...one coin.  Inside the rope.  Move.

As Mac checks to see all eyes are elsewhere, he guides the coin's

slide slowly, inexorably, to...

...ATTACH itself magnetically.  To the steel pedestal.  Beneath the

Bone's case.  As it does, Mac's watch BEEPS slightly, as we CLOSE

on it to see...

...DATA flickering across its face.

INT. NOODLE SHOP, TAIPEI - DAY

Gin and Mac at a long communal table, ignored, by Taiwanese couples,

families, businessmen, chattering loudly all around them.  Gin

looking down at her bowl, she's barely touched her meal...

Glances up.  Mac is eating heartily, happily.

Stuffs his mouth full.  Talking around it...

She's studying him as he eats.  Since he's not looking at her,

Gin's eyes are thoughtful, appraising.

And he looks up.  Direct to her eyes.  A dead straight, heart-

stopping look.  Before the wonderful smile.

She cuts him a hard look.  Not funny.

INT. MUSEUM - DAY

Late afternoon, the place has closed.  Four armed GUARDS,

accompanied by a museum OFFICIAL, push a large DOLLY across the

hardwood floor, heels clicking, wheels rumbling softly, into...

...the room we've seen.  The dolly stops by the display case of the

priceless oracle Bone.  The four guards position themselves around

the triple-paned bulletproof case.  It will be a bitch to lift.

The official has a key.  He inserts this into the lock of the

titanium frame which holds the case to the steel pedestal.  And

as it CLICKS, we...

SMASH CUT TO...

INT. NOODLE SHOP - DAY

Mac's arm rising with noodle-laden chopsticks, the wristwatch

BEEPING softly.  He drops the chopsticks, rising in one fluid

motion as Gin does the same, throwing some bills on the table,

he leads her...

...OUT the door, INTO the street, step OFF the curb, turn, DROP

flat on his back, SLIDE DOWN the gutter, Gin following a split-

second behind...

INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

A train car stands, pulled up to a loading dock.  Two SOLDIERS with

assault rifles on the train's rear platform, waiting.  Along one

side of the tracks, a gravel roadway.  An open air Jeep-type

military vehicle stands empty.  One of our soldiers speaks into a

walkie-talkie, watching a huge steel DOOR at the entrance to the

loading dock, which...

...OPENS now.  Through it come the four armed museum guards,

surrounding the dolly which carries the Bone's massive bulletproof

display case.  The official is with them, and hands paperwork to

one of the waiting soldiers, as the museum guards LIFT the case,

and carry it onto the train.

INT. TUNNEL SHAFT

An empty stretch of dimly-lit track, somewhere down the line.

Silent.  PAN up, way up, to...

...the shadows of a huge air vent.  Must be vent #1, because two

FIGURES are crouched there, as close as lovers.  Even we can barely

make them out, until we CLOSE to hear the hushed...

He is holding something dull gray and small.  It looks like a trun-

cated nerf football with one end pointed and the other cut blunt.

He has four of these.  Gives her three.

He reaches out, gently...

Touches her face.

Stares in her eyes.

And smiles.  One more whisper...

INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

The museum guards are back on the landing with the official.  Our

two soldiers stand facing them from the rear platform of the train

car, as...

The train RUMBLES to life.  Ready to go.

INT. MUSEUM

Two guards arrive with a hand truck to carry off the empty

pedestal, which once supported the Bone's case.  One tilts the top

of the pedestal back, supporting its weight, as the other stoops to

lift the base, and...

...stops.  He sees the coin.  Oddly flat against the pedestal's

shaft.  He kneels, tries to lift the coin, but the magnet HOLDS it

fast.  He looks up to his companion.  Then...

...PEELS the coin free, the other guard reaches for it, the first

guard YANKS it away, and it FLIES from his hand, INTO the wall, and

drops.  As the guards go to look, the coin's back has come away.

Revealing...

...electronics.

INT. TUNNEL LOADING DOCK

An ALARM SHRIEKS at a deafening level.  Five museum GUARDS BURST

through the doorway, LEAP from the landing, pile into the Jeep, and

BLAST OFF down the gravel roadway after the departed train.

INT. BARRACKS ENTRANCE

A much larger landing at the other end of the tunnel, facing back

the opposite way.  The ALARM SCREAMS here, too, and massive steel

doors CLANG open, as 25 SOLDIERS with assault rifles SWARM out onto

the landing, taking up sharpshooter positions, weapons pointing

back up the track.

INT. AIR VENT #1

Mac and Gin crouched in the vent, high above the track, gas masks

dangle around their necks, magnet paddles from their wrists,

various objects from their belt loops.  The alarm ECHOES,

absolutely EAR-SPLITTING.  She leans to shout in his ear...

Above the siren, we can now hear the TRAIN coming...

The train LOUDER, closer, the alarm BLARING...

Quietly.  Straight in her eyes.  The train ROARS into view, FLASHES

beneath them, as he GRABS her wrist and...

...JUMPS, HURTLING DOWN, both STRIKING the empty rear platform,

Gin slipping off, but he HOLDS her fast, SWIPING with his magnet

which...

...CLANKS hard, LOCKS solid.  He PULLS her onto the platform,

she looks dazed, clinging to him, he tugs her gas mask into place,

slips on his own, and...

...FITS a magnetic DEVICE from his belt loop ONTO the door

lock, SPINS a dial on the device, which POPS the lack OPEN,

Mac BURSTING...

...THROUGH the door, lobbing a GAS GRENADE at the startled guards,

who try to whirl and FIRE through the fog of red smoke, two wild

SHOTS above the rolling Mac, and they are felled by the gas where

they stand.  Gin races in, falling on her butt, as the car ROCKS

along the track.  Points OUT the window...

Scrambling to her feet, Mac wheeling toward the Bone.

He THROWS a handful of coins at the glass case, and purple UV BEAMS

ARC from the glass to FRY the coins in midair.  Mac pulls a dull

rectangle the size of a cigar box from Gin's backpack, as we

SMASH CUT to...

INT. TUNNEL

The Jeep BLASTING after the train at crazy speed, the four non-

drivers with weapons at the ready...

INT. BARRACKS LANDING

TROOPS FILL the platform, and have spilled onto the tracks, enough

weapons to dust Butch and Sundance.

INT. TRAIN

Mac operating the cigar box which is actually a customized

OSCILLOSCOPE, with countless KNOBS and a SCREEN which displays

WAVE PATTERNS.  The machine is emitting SHRILL whistling TONES

that cut through even the siren.

Mac SPINS the dials and two overhead light bulbs BLOW.  The glass

case housing a fire ax SHATTERS.  The Bone's case is untouched.

SMASH CUT to...

INT. TUNNEL

WITH the Jeep, BOMBING around a curve to SEE the train at last.  WE

OPEN FIRE, accelerating after the train with everything we've got,

gravel FLYING like shrapnel, and up ahead...

...the train's windows BLOW OUT, the tunnel SHOWERED with glass

fragments.  SMASH CUT...

INT. TRAIN

Mac JUICING the box, the deafening TONE competing with the sirens,

the gunshots, Gin SHRIEKING as she points through a blasted-out

window...

And the Bone's case EXPLODES, Gin WHIRLING away to protect her

face, as we SMASH CUT to...

INT. TUNNEL

The Jeep now ALONGSIDE the rear platform of the train.  The driver

fighting to hold it steady, as...

...the guards begin to CLAMBER over the side, GRASPING for the

platform's rails, one goes DOWN screaming onto the tracks, but two

MAKE IT, then a third, they BURST...

...INTO the train to see...

Nothing.  Two groggy, half-conscious soldiers.  Discarded gas

masks, oscilloscope.  No Mac.  No Gin.  And inside the shattered

case...

A chicken bone.  The pack-rat strikes again.

INT. TUNNEL

Mac and Gin FLATTENED to the side of the train above the window

line, held fast by their magnets.  We are on the opposite side from

the gravel path, so the train screens us from the jeep.  SHOUTING

above the din...

Up ahead an AIR VENT looms, we are HURTLING toward it.  Mac and Gin

each free one hand, reach into their backpacks for...

...twin GRAPNEL GUNS, which look like big 9mm pistols, but with a

blunt, round end.  As we STREAK toward the VENT, Gin lifts her gun,

SHOOTS at it, a cable-attached PROJECTILE EXPLODING toward the

target, OPENING in mid-flight to a three-pronged HOOK, which...

...FALLS just SHORT, the hook tumbling to CLANG on the tracks, as

Mac...

...FIRES his, the projectile EXPLODING, the hook OPENING and...

...BITES into the wall, only four feet from the vent, its cable

stretching back to the gun in Mac's hand, we're almost there, and

Mac slips the pistol...

...INTO Gin's free hand.

Their eyes meet.  He sees her hesitate to abandon him.

They FLASH PAST the vent, Mac RELEASES her magnet, Gin's freed hand

GRASPING to join the other at the pistol, as she...

...ROCKETS up, CATAPULTED back toward the vent by the retractable

cable, as a RIFLE APPEARS from a window beneath us, taking aim at

Gin, and Mac...

KICKS it off line, the shot BOOMING, the guard almost dropping

the weapon, then SWINGING it back UP, slamming the muzzle directly

INTO Mac's GROIN, as Mac...

...GRASPS the barrel, YANKING it up, SLIPS the shot SCREAMING past

his head, PULLING the guard half out the window to KICK his face,

sending him DOWN to the tracks, as we CAREEN around a curve, seeing

in distance now...

...the END of the line, the massive BARRACKS LANDING, the phalanx

of TROOPS, the fifth and final AIR VENT midway between us.  Mac's

free hand pulls out...

...the lone PLASMA GRENADE he kept for himself, and as we CAREEN

toward the troops, Mac HEAVES the grenade uptrack, and it...

...EXPLODES in a horrifying FIREBALL, which RIPS UP the train

tracks, COLLAPSING a section of tunnel wall ONTO the gravel path, a

choking CLOUD of yellow SMOKE filling the tunnel, obscuring

everything, our train ROCKETING...

...TOWARD the flames, nearly AT the metal SUPPORT BEAM which runs

vertically up to the final air vent, and as the train FLASHES PAST

it, Mac...

LUNGES out, SLAMMING both magnets ONTO the support beam, the

momentum FLATTENING his body fully horizontal like a flag on a

pole, the train PLUNGING ON without him, as guards shoot blindly

back from the windows, the jeep PLOWING full tilt INTO the rubble

of tunnel wall, the train...

...DERAILING in a terrifying CRUSH of twisted metal, screams,

shouts, the smoke and flame everywhere, and we SNAP TO...

REVERSE ANGLE...the soldiers' POV from the landing, SCATTERING as

the derailed train HURTLES AT them, INTO them, chaos, until at last

they see...

...above the clearing smoke, near the tunnel ceiling...

...Mac CLIMBING deftly up the support beam, magnets CLANKING, hand

over hand, nearly at the vent, and the shouting troops...

...OPEN FIRE, bullets CHEWING UP the tunnel wall, as we SMASH CUT

TO...

INT. STORAGE ROOM - DAY

Silence.  Cluttered, dimly-lit storage room.  Boxes of SHOES reach

to the ceiling, Gucci, Bruno Magli, the good stuff.  Footsteps

precede...

...a young SALESMAN, tailored, attractive.  He goes right to the

shelf he needs.  Opens a box.  Takes it and two others.  As his

steps recede, we PAN UP to...

...the ceiling.  The mesh grating, which soundlessly...

...slides away.  Gin DROPS lightly, twelve feet to the floor.

Filthy from her adventure, she quickly unzips her backpack to

remove...

...a sleek Halliburton case.  Opens it.  The Oracle Bone undamaged

in its cushioned setting.  Steps returning, she is...

...OUT of her jumpsuit in a heartbeat, revealing a costly slip of a

dress, kicks the jump suit under the bottom shelf, as...

...the young salesman APPEARS to find her peeking into a shoe box.

He is startled.  She scowls at him, rubbing the grime from her

face...

Shows her dirty fingers as proof.

Oh.

Lifts the Halliburton case, slings her pack over her shoulder,

strides to the doorway.  See the crowded upscale boutique...

Out she goes.  And he follows.  Maybe he's on commission.

INT. VENT - DAY

Mac, very much alive, somewhat the worse for wear, crawling through

a darkened pipe on his belly, toward...

...a grating.  Light filters through.  Reaching the screen, he

squints through it.  Can't see shit.  Listens.  Nothing that rises

above an ambient wooshing of air in the duct.  He grasps the wires,

pushes, and...

...FALLS straight THROUGH, tumbling ten feet to CRASH LAND in a

heap.  HEAR feminine SCREAMS before we look up to...

...three young WOMEN trying on lingerie, being attended by an older

SALESWOMAN.  The girls are half-naked and as Mac rises, one THROWS

a red lace TEDDY in his face.  He peels it off, and still holding

the garment, calmly tells the saleswoman...

At which the customers SHRIEK, cover themselves all the more, and

begin screaming at the poor saleswoman.  During which...

All four women.  Look at him.

EXT. LINGERIE SHOP, SHIN KONG MALL - SUNSET

CLOSE on an entrance, just as Mac comes...

...FLYING THROUGH, propelled by two sizeable SECURITY GUARDS, once

again landing in pieces.  It's a long day.  As Mac clears his head,

they stand at the doorway with folded arms.  Hoping he wants some

more.

The bruisers look at each other.  No habla Espanol.

EXT. KAOHSHING HARBOR, TAIWAN - DUSK

A super TUGBOAT, engines RUMBLING, ready to pull out.  A woman

paces the deck.  Every time we see her, she seems more tightly

wrapped.  At last...

...here he comes, stepping briskly from the taxi, striding up the

gangway, pulling from inside his coat...

...the red lace teddy.  He drapes it over her face, and she pulls

it away, steps into his arms...

...her kiss is urgent.  Real.  HOLD on the look in her eyes.  What

is she thinking?

He strokes her hair, gently.  Then, goes to look into the

Halliburton case, which stands by the rail.  As he crouches.  As he

looks at the Bone...

She is watching him.  An intensity to her gaze.  More feeling than

she is comfortable with, which...

...disappears completely, as he turns to her.  And when he mimes

FLINGING the case into the sea...

She laughs.

EXT. STATUE SQUARE, HONG KONG - DAY

CLOSE on a British Petroleum BILLBOARD with a huge DIGITAL CLOCK,

counting down by seconds...JUNE 29, 1997, 11:32 A.M. - 1 DAY, 12

HOURS, 27 MINUTES, 48 SECONDS TO:  REUNION WITH CHINA!

PAN to an AERIAL VIEW of...

Hong Kong's bustling STATUE SQUARE, the hub of countless feeder

streets and alleyways, as we ROAM to a SERIES OF SHOTS...

...billboards everywhere.  Western businesses that announce WE'LL

STILL BE HERE FOR YOU.  Others, primarily British, sending

farewells, gratitude for past patronage.  China-sponsored

depictions of happy Hong Kong and Chinese citizens, proclaim ONE

COUNTRY, TWO SYSTEMS.

...moving vans, people pushing carts of belongings, shop signs

advertising blowout inventory clearance sales.  Traffic beyond

gridlock.  The human ant colony.

...incredibly long queues in front of post offices, American

Express, the imposing glass and steel skyscraper called the HONG

KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK BUILDING.

...large groups of uniformed CHINESE SOLDIERS in the streets.  More

orderly DEMONSTRATION by anti-China PROTESTERS, their signs say

MORE DEMOCRACY and FREE HONG KONG, their numbers watched by Chinese

soldiers, who in turn are watched by British soldiers.

CLOSE on the square now.  A couple at a sidewalk vendor.  Mac is

purchasing a t-shirt.  Gin dutifully lifts her arms, and Mac slips

the garment over her head.  It says CHINA GOT HONG KONG, AND ALL I

GOT WAS THIS LOUSY T-SHIRT.

He regards her thoughtfully, and she turns, modeling for him as if

wearing a Givenchy original.  He approves, lifts the Halliburton

case, and they move on, strolling, chatting until Mac...

...bumps HARD into a Chinese SOLDIER, both men REELING with the

impact.  The soldier carries an identical HALLIBURTON CASE, and the

two men set their cases down side by side, as Mac steps forward...

No one notices, no one cares.  Gin tugs on Mac's arm, don't get

involved, dear.  Mac reluctantly steps back.  The soldier glares at

him.  Then, bends and picks up...

...Mac's case.  A parting epithet in Mandarin, and the soldier

starts off.  Watching him, Mac unobtrusively fingers a concealed...

...PISTOL, ready for action.  But keeps watching, as within a few

yards, the soldier...

...stops.  Opens the case.  Checks out the Oracle Bone, right there

in the middle of the square.  Mac and Gin watching across the

distance, with hair-trigger keenness.  At last the soldier CLOSES

the case...

...walks back to us.

Handing it to Mac, he leans forward, and in low, aecented

English...

Picks up his own case.  And is gone.

EXT. MANSION, VICTORIA PEAK - DAY

A vintage Aston Martin pulls up to a spectacular gated MANSION.

Sparkling white, it is a blend of Edwardian and Regency.  Gin is

driving, speaks into the voice box, and the gate swings open.  As

they pull up the crushed rock driveway...

...a BUTLER appears, as British as the architecture.  Climbing from

the car, Mac has the Halliburton case.

And leads them around the side of the house.  They walk slowly, a

distance behind the butler, taking everything in.

His voice is strong, calm.  No hint of a smile.

She looks equally serious.  Just more tense.

They come upon the spacious GROUNDS behind the mansion.  A

breathtaking view down the slope of Victoria Peak to Hong Kong and

the harbor.  Kowloon across the water.

They pass a towering row of perfect ROSEBUSHES.  Mac SNAPS OFF a

giant blossom.

And hands it to her.  Their eyes meet.

At the edge of the garden, above the commanding view, a luncheon

TABLE has been set.  Spread with delcacies.  Two SERVANTS attend,

also British.

Only the host is seated.  He does not rise.

Col. Qiu glances up from his meal.  Green PLA uniform, absurdly

decorated, wraparound Gautier sunglasses.  We recognize him as the

man who took Gin's call in his Mercedes in Tienanmen Square.  The

man who accompanied the poor Minister of Finance to the ophthal-

mologist.

And leans prettily.  To fasten it in the buttonhole of his lapel.

Hearing his real name, Mac cuts her a look.

And she sits.  Close to Qiu.  Mac looks around at the property,

the view.

The Colonel smiles.  First time.  Like an alligator.  Mac notices

that the tablecloth is actually...

...a Union Jack.  He fingers the flag.

He sits.

And runs the back of his knuckles up the length of Gin's bare arm.

Which brings Qiu's eyes over.  Really?

And pulls up the Halliburton case.  Handing it across the table.

As Qiu takes the case in his lap, opens it...

Qiu glances across the lawn to the butler, who stands behind the

bar trolley.  As the drinks are prepared, the Colonel studies the

Bone.

The drinks arrive.

And lifts from beneath the table, a leather POUCH.

Drops it into Gin's lap.  She opens the pouch to reveal...

...goggles.  Like one would wear in a tanning salon.  Only these

are flesh-colored with one small hole in the center of each lens.

Slightly larger than the size of a pupil.

She slips them on.  A bright smile.

And Mac smiles.  In return.

INT. SUITE, PENINSULA HOTEL - LATE NIGHT

Glass doors open WIDE to a terrace which overlooks Kowloon, the

harbor, Hong Kong Island beyond.  More lights than stars in heaven.

And speaking of heaven...

...the SOUNDS of lovemaking are fierce, feral, an urgent rhythm,

part comic, part wondrous, and mostly, arousing enough to make us

PAN TO...

...lovemaking in silhouette.  This is the lovemaking of tigers,

mesmerizing to watch, ferocious enough to inspire envy, and

somehow...

...tender enough.  To suggest real love.

LATER...Mac and Gin sit before the open terrace.  There is wine and

food and abandoned clothing all around them.  She has her pack

drawn near.  And Qiu's leather pouch.  She removes the goggles...

This is the moment.

But.  She is electric, more alive than he's ever seen her.

She lifts the goggles...

Yep.

From her pack, she pulls a slender black rectangle.  Opens it to

reveal a shiny metallic DISC.

Holds up the metallic disc.

She waggles the disc.

She waggles the disc.  Again.

On this one.  He has to smile.

Exactly.

He settles back.  Looks at her.

Well...

And his fingers reach out...

Touch her hair.  Her face.  She swallows.  A raw moment.  A

hoarse...

But he's just staring in her eyes.  The look pins her.  She can't

wriggle off.  A murmured...

He leans to her...

They kiss.

EXT. STATUE SQUARE - ROUND MIDNIGHT

CLOSE on the British Petroleum billboard, where the countdown CLOCK

says...JUNE 30, 1997, 11:41 P.M., 0 DAYS, 0 HOURS, 18 MINUTES, 51

SECONDS TO:  REUNION WITH CHINA!

The square is beyond BEDLAM.  Times Square looks deserted New

Year's Eve compared to this carnival CRUSH of humanity, rock and

rolling as if reunion with China was the doorway to Paradise.

Singing, chanting, screaming, dancing, music and booze everywhere,

firecrackers exploding, soldiers and civilians, tycoons and

hookers, tourists and peddlers and Party members and homeless,

going absolutely nuts.

Who knows.  Could be the last party.  Ever.

WHIP PAN to the crowded plaza in front of the towering glass-and-

steel headquarters of the HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK.

ZOOM to focus on our smashing couple in evening wear, Gin with a

large beaded shoulder bag.  Mac presents an invitation to a PLA

soldier, who admits them into...

INT. PUBLIC LOBBY, HONG KONG AND SHANGHAI BANK

...a VIP party going full blast in the lobby of this truly

breathtaking structure.  A central ATRIUM rises 47 floors, creating

a soaring clear core, around which the offices and working spaces

are ringed.  The view straight up is interrupted only at three

well-spaced levels, where thick CANOPIES of glass, stitched

together with spidery skeletons of steel, SPAN the open core.

Mac looks up...

...at the balcony railings surrounding the atrium, the revelers

have been granted access to the lower five floors.  Above these,

all is empty.

She is guiding him toward one of the multiple hors d'oeuvre

stations.  Half the celebrants seem to be armed PLA soldiers, many

with rifles slung boldly across their shoulders.

Mac loads up on six hors d'oeuvres, piling them on a napkin, as

she takes two flutes of champagne.  They step away from the mob

toward a potted plant near the wall, and Mac...

...drops his snacks with a SPLAT.  Shit.  Bending to clean the

mess, he slips from his waistband a flat CIRCUIT BOARD with a

bank logo and a three-pronged plug.  In a single motion, he plugs

it INTO a socket concealed by the pot, scoops up his canapes,

and we CUT TO...

INT. SURVEILLANCE ROOM

Three SECURITY OFFICERS blink, as ALL FIFTY monitor screens go

HAYWIRE at once.  The images compressed to a blur of lines between

a series of diagonal SLACK BARS that slash across the screens.  The

way your TV acts when the horizontal hold goes out.  They can't

believe it.

Stumped, they start slamming buttons, flipping switches, jabbering

to each other.  Now the images begin to ROLL vertically, as if in

response to their attempts at adjustment.

Welcome to the world of high tech.

INT. ELEVATOR BANK

Mac and Gin wait with a party of older Brits, who've had plenty

to drink and are carrying more.  Two armed soldiers flank the

elevators.  A car arrives.  As the Brits enter...

Waiting, calmly.  Mac smiles at a soldier.

The guy LAUGHS.  An elevator arrives.  Gin sipping champagne as

they enter.

The doors CLOSE.  They are alone.  The panel has floors 1 through

5 lit.  The other numbers, 6-10 and 16-47, are dark.  There are NO

numbers 11-15.

Mac pulls from his pocket a small flat DEVICE, not much thicker

than a credit card, with a window and a series of LED lights

on its face.  He fits it into a SLOT beside a black glass PLATE

on the elevator panel.  Immediately, the LEDs scramble, all RED,

numbers FLASH across the card's window, as the device begins

to lock on the elevator code.  In sequence, the LEDs turn GREEN,

and...

...the glass plate LIGHTS, announcing in Kanji and English...ACCES

GRANTED TO FLOORS 11, 12, 14, 15.  Mac presses the lit number 14.

The elevator RISES.  He looks over at her.  She is tight enough

to snap.  We can feel her heart racing from here.

She looks irritated.  He is smiling, gently.

She looks away.  The elevator stops.

Me laughs.  The door opens.  She is pissed off.

Now they're staring at each other.  An open elevator door.  An

empty dim hallway.  They see only each other.

He holds out the crook of his arm.  As a gentleman escorts a lady.

Her eyes flicker on that.  So he grins...

She looks in his eyes.  Her body seems to relax, just a little.

She takes his arm.

INT. 14TH FLOOR

CLOSE on a KEYPAD.  Next to it, a mirrored PLATE with two

APERTURES, set apart the distance of human eyes.  Gin's goggled

face DROPS into frame, reflected in the mirrored surface.  She

fits her eyes to the apertures...

A red scanning light APPEARS.  Tracks vertically.  BEEPS.  Tracks

horizontally.  And from somewhere...

...a soft CLICK.  PULL BACK now, to see...

They stand at what seems the door to a BANK VAULT.  Round,

gigantic, heavy steel.  Bolts eyerywhere.  Mac reaches to GRASP

the handle, and...

CLANG.  The door swings OPEN.  They stare at the inner sanctum...

...a windowless ROOM.  Dim, eerie fluorescence.  A blast of white

noise from the elaborate air-cooling system.  Two large MAINFRAME

COMPUTERS face each other from opposite walls, desks and work

stations with PC monitors filling the space between.  As Mac closes

the vault door behind them...

...Gin goes quickly to the smaller mainframe.  Pulls the high-

resolution monitor around on its adjustable arm.  The screensaver

displays Guernsey cows swimming among tropical fish.  She hits a

key.  The screen saver replaced by, WELCOME.  AUTHORIZATION MODE

PLEASE.  Two boxes for PASSWORD and SCAN.  She hits SCAN.  A

plastic shield RISES, revealing...

...the mirrored PLATE, the tiny APERTURES.  Gin leans to fit her

goggled eyes in place.  The red scanning light.  Vertical track.

BEEP.  Horizontal track.  And the monitor announces...WELCOME

MINISTER FEIHONG.  Gin takes off the goggles, and...

...THROWS them across the room to Mac at the larger mainframe.  As

he repeats the scanning process, Gin is loading the precious CD-ROM

into her mainframe's driver.  Watches the screen...

WITH Mac now.  Typing the words CONTROL PANEL.  The screen now

shows icons for time setting, and he clicks his mouse to create a

CLOCK in the center of the screen, labeled LOCAL TIME, and reading

11:57:19, changing with each second that passes...

INTERCUT...frenzied activity in a large war room filled with

computers, wall screens, every worker functioning at top speed...

CONTINUE to hear Mac over this...

CUT BACK to Mac in the vault.  He clicks his mouse to create a

clock at the LEFT of the screen, labeled BRITISH TERMINAL TIME.

It is, of course, showing the same time as the local clock.

INTERCUT...an even larger war room, even better staffed and

equipped.  Everyone...doing...nothing.  Staring at blank monitors

and wall screens.

CUT BACK to Mac in the vault.  He clicks his mouse to create

another clock at the RIGHT of the screen, labeled CHINA TERMINAL

TIME.  Shows the same time as the other clocks.  11:58:22.

CLICKS the mouse, and the BRITISH TERMINAL TIME begins FLASHING.

As the flashing clock reaches 11:58:30, and Mac HITS the key four

times, advancing the British clock to 34 seconds, four seconds

As the local and Chinese clocks reach 40 seconds, Mac HITS the key

four times, regressing the Chinese clock back to 36 seconds.

We watch all three clocks, clicking down the last moments of

British rule.  The British clock is 4 seconds FAST, the Chinese

clock 4 seconds SLOW.

LOCAL TIME...11:59:00.  One minute to midnight.

He turns around.  Her eyes are waiting.  Across the room.

Mac sighs.  This is a sad thing.

She squints across at his clock.

His smile returns.  Bittersweet and real...

The look holds.  He turns back to his screen.  She lingers on him

for an instant.  Then, back to the mainframe, finger poised above

her ENTER key...

INTERCUT...The British Consulate.  All screens go DARK.  A logo

APPEARS of a POPPING Champagne BOTTLE, whose spray forms a Union

Jack twined with a PRC flag, everyone SHOUTS, cheers or curses, and

we SMASH CUT...

BACK to Gin...striking ENTER, the screen flashing TRANSACTIONS XJ6

PROCESSING.

Her screen flashes TRANSACTIONS XJ6 COMPLETED, hear her SHRIEK of

ecstasy, as we...

INTERCUT...Bank of China where dark screens suddenly LIGHT with the

same stupid PARTY LOGO.  Only nobody cheers.  They just get to

work.

BACK TO the vault...

But across the way, Gin is JAMMING a button.  Again.  Again.

Houston.  We have a problem.

He crosses the room.  She's rummaging on a nearby desk, finds a

LETTER OPENER.

She's fitting the letter opener INTO the narrow slot above the lid

of the driver.

WHOOP!  WHOOP!  WHOOP!  WHOOP!  Every SIREN in the skyscraper is

SHRIEKING, lights are FLASHING CRIMSON, Gin's screen says SECURITY

BREACH in a selection of languages.

Gin just staring at it.

The sirens are EAR-SPLITTING.  We know that elsewhere in this

building, all hell must be breaking loose.  Gin is YANKING Mac's

arm out of the socket...

Yeh.  She stares at it.  Really scared.

He stares at her.  In one motion, he SNATCHES a stapler from the

desk and SMASHES the driver with all his strength.

It pops open.  Calmly, he plucks her CD from the tray.  She mouths

a barely audible...

But just as she's about to bolt...he holds up one hand.  Slips

another CD from his pocket.  We see the words KENNY G.

Pops it IN the drive.  SLAMS it shut.

INT. CORRIDOR

Mac and Gin RUNNING full tilt through the siren BLARE, turning a

corner to see ahead...

...the balcony railing, the building's empty central CORE.  Mac

BOLTS straight TOWARD it, Gin sprinting to follow, lungs pounding,

they reach the railing, looking DOWN to see...

Hysteria, unimaginable chaos.  Soldiers, black-tie partygoers,

SCRAMBLING in all directions, looking to his left Mac sees...

...the bank of ELEVATORS, soldiers POURING in, some cars already

RISING, fourth floor, fifth.  Now he looks directly BELOW, where...

...soldiers are POUNDING up the metal service staircase, the front

rank almost at the third floor.  In the lobby, some faces look up

to see us, but no one is shooting.

He PLUNGES his hand into her shoulder bag...

Pulls OUT two PLASMA GRENADES, and FLINGS one toward the elevator

cables three floors down and it...

...EXPLODES in a horrifying FIREBALL, causing PANDEMONIUM in the

lobby below, the elevator cables BLOWN AWAY, cars PLUNGING, the

yellow smoke momentarily screening us from the soldiers far below,

and Mac HURLS the second grenade...

...STRAIGHT DOWN and the fireball WIPES OUT the staircase, a huge

section of ninth floor landing RAINING down on the lobby.

Grabs her hand and they RACE to the staircase, as smoke BILLOWS

everywhere below.  UP they go, two stairs at a time, the lowest

glass-and-spiderweb-steel CANOPY is three floors above us, the

cacophany of SHOUTS below is like an amplified insane asylum.

He is dragging her now, up, up, BULLETS are flying blind through

the smoke, CHEWING up metal and glass all around us, up, up, and

as the smoke at last clears, they have reached...

...the canopy floor.  They can see the army down below.  Clutching

her hand, Mac leads her OVER the railing, ONTO the canopy itself,

and together they RUN...

...straight ACROSS the heavy glass toward the far side of the

building, like space-walking above the throng 150 feet below,

BULLETS now TRACING their path from beneath, SLAMMING OFF the

underside of the bulletproof canopy, Gin SHRIEKING with fright

as they go.  We see ahead...

...three EXECUTIVE ELEVATORS beginning to climb the far wall.

These are glass-enclosed tubes, all filled with soldiers, the car

in the lead already at the tenth floor.  Mac keeps running straight

TOWARD them.

They make it to the edge of the canopy, the lead elevator only two

floors below them.  We can see the soldiers through the glass.  Mac

GRASPS her hand, and as the car nears our level...

They LEAP across five feet of open air to...

...LAND squarely on the car's metal roof, Mac WRAPPING his free arm

AROUND the cable, and UP we go.  The ant colony below us receding

fast.

Gin is hanging onto the cable, petrified.  Mac is looking up toward

the roof.

He looks at her.  Just now, she seems more miserable than afraid.

He doesn't smile.  Passing the third canopy.

Looks back up.  Forty-first floor.  Six to go.

She blinks.  Huh?  So he reaches into her bag, pulls out the

grenade, and THROWS it...

...STRAIGHT up.  The roof above them EXPLODES in a FIREBALL, and

SHIELDS her body against the wall of their shaft, as a huge SECTION

of roof comes RAINING down.  We watch as it...

...CRASHES through the upper canopy, TONS of roof and glass

PLUNGING to...

...BLAST through the middle canopy, everyone below SCRAMBLING for

shelter, as the whole shebang...

...EXPLODES through the lowest canopy.  Gin can only GAPE at the

incredible display.  Mouthing a silent WOW.

They've passed the second canopy, thirty-sixth floor.  Still

climbing.  The other two elevators maybe five floors below us.

She looks to him.

The elevator car has STOPPED.  We are at the roof.  The soldiers

are in the car beneath our feet, nowhere to get out.  Above our

heads.

...the last few feet of elevator cable.  And starry sky, where our

patch of roof used to be.

He begins to shimmy up the few feet of cable.  At the top, he

reaches out with one hand toward the lip of the remaining roof,

GRABS it, LUNGES with his free hand, and...

...DANGLING 47 floors, he pulls himself UP, swings ONTO the roof.

Reaches back down.  She is only twelve feet below him.  Frozen with

fear.

She stares up at his eyes.  He smiles.

She looks down at the mess below.

And starts to climb the cable.  Not so easy in a ball gown, but the

adrenaline is pumping.  Gets to the top.  Here's the hard part.

One hand reaches out...

...GRABS his.  She lets GO.  And she is DANGLING in space.

And with all his strength, hauls her up onto...

...the roof.  Two-thirds of it remain.  At the far edge, a gigantic

MAINTENANCE CRANE, itself two stories high.  But between here and

the crane...

...a HELICOPTER.  Big and beautifUl and empty.  She looks like

she's seen God.  Mac starts to jog toward it, she runs to follow

but sees him go...

...straight PAST the chopper.

He turns back.

She points to the copter.  It's over here.

Oh.

Guess not.

And keeps walking.  Toward the monster CRANE.

Moving fast, he points off to his right.  Her eyes follow a

long CABLE, leading from the arm of the crane, across the roof,

attaching by a huge HOOK to a massive WRECKING BALL.

He reaches the crane's cab.  Turns back to see she hasn't moved.

Got it?  She takes off running.  He hops IN the cab.  PUSHES the

start button.  It rumbles to life.  Tests some levers...

He turns to see that he's tightened the cable, pulling her ball six

feet in the AIR.  She clings to the hook with a true death grip.

He lowers her ball to the roof.  Getting the hang of it.

Which makes her eyes BUG OUT.

He THROWS a lever and the crane's arm begins to SWING in a circle,

finally taking the ball WITH it, and as she SCREAMS, Mac...

...POUNCES out of the cab, RACING along the edge of the roof, NOT

toward the ball which is sweeping the hysterical Gin in a widening

ARC, but toward the point where he thinks the ball will clear the

edge, and JUST as it does, he...

...LEAPS aboard, throwing one arm around the hook, the other around

her, and they go...

...OVER the side, WHOOSHING DOWN in a gigantic, every-increasing

LOOP, as the endless steel cable UNWINDS from its huge drum like a

fishing reel hooked onto a killer whale.

The ride no theme park could insure, SWOOPING out ACROSS the

skyline, DROPPING like an anvil, as the cable UNSPOOLS hundreds of

feet, nothing but NOTHING for miles below them, Gin grabbing a

breath to SHRIEK her guts out, as the monstrous pendulum reaches

its max, begins to slow toward that one nauseating motionless

instant...

He YANKS her loose, and they drop...

...four feet.  The ball SWINGS OFF lnto space to some unknown

mayhem.  Clutching Mac, Gin looks WAY down to the street, and

realizes they are standing on...

...a rooftop.  Quiet, safe.  Alone.

She WHIPS around, GLARING death at his eyes.

She COLLAPSES in his arms, every muscle trembling in spasm,

sobbing...

He holds her tenderly.  Kisses the top of her head.

EXT. NATHAN ROAD - EARLY MORNING

WITH Gin in a soft brunette wig, walking briskly, light carry-all

across her shoulder.  Very early, even the busiest street in the

world is less than that at this hour.  Up ahead...

...Tsimshatsui Station, a tall man with a tourist shopping bag,

leaning casually against a pole.  Talking into a cellular.

As she approaches, Mac doesn't seem to notice, but she can now hear

his conversation...

He sees her now.  Smiles small.

SNAPS the phone shut.

She did.  She is frankly exhilarated.

She sighs.  It

Mac's smile.  Bittersweet affection.

She smiles.  It is easy, but dazzling.  Atypically soft.

Ah.

She takes a breath.  Scared, in an excited way...

His smile back.

He looks at his watch.  Takes her hand.  Leads her to the subway

steps.

He takes his big tourist shopping bag.  Puts it in her hand.

They are descending now.  Into the vast underground train station.

Got that?

He holds up a silencing finger.  Listen to me.

Her eyes moving over his face.  What is this?

They're at the booth.  He pays their fare.  Through the turnstiles,

now.

Smiles at her.  As they enter a tunnel.

And in an instant of blind panicked clarity.  She gets the whole

thing.

Keep walking.  People are everywhere.  But they are alone in the

world.

He sighs.

Looking around the tunnel.

Glances at her.

End of the tunnel in sight now.  It leads to a massive, endless

quai.  Trains in transit.

Nearly there.  He says nothing.  Looks pretty grim.

He sighs.

She stops walking.  She has to know...

Ah.  That.

Gently, takes her arm.  Leads her onto the endless train platform.

Walking slower now.

Down the platform they stroll.  As her eyes wander...

Her breath catches.  Her eyes go down.

Her heart pounding through her chest.

They've stopped.  Just two travellers in a strange land.  waiting

for a train.

He nods.  Smiling pleasantly.

We feel her adrenaline racing.

And so she smiles.  As prettily as she can manage.

A train is COMING.  We HEAR it.

SEE the train.  Slowing.  Pulling in.

With a SHRIEK of metal.  The train PULLS toward us.

What the hell?

The train STOPS.  The doors OPEN.  People come out, people go in.

Pouring around them.  They are alone again.  The subway doors stand

open.  Two feet away.  She looks at them...

Sixty seconds.  And still smiling...

She freezes to stone.

And she...DOES IT.  A blinding MOVE, the gun straight at his head,

Mac miming fear, raising his hands to chill the agents we...

WHIP PAN to see.  Half a dozen, everywhere, but none too close.

They REACT, pull their weapons, but it's a stand-off.  BACK TO...

Two people. Alone in the universe.

She hesitates.  Does as he says.  Passengers are screaming,

cringing, bolting for other cars.  Our world is FROZEN.  His hands

raised...

Gentle smile.

Her eyes are flooding.  The gun is trembling.

Her pistol is shaking like she has palsy.  Tears are on her cheeks.

She sobs.  She can't stand this.

There is no answer.  There are no words.

The doors HISS SHUT.  She stares, training her pistol on him

through the glass, his hands reaching back to hold off the agents,

and the train...

PULLS away.  An instant to pick up speed, and it ROARS into a

tunnel.  Gone.

Mac stands motionless as ALL HELL breaks loose around him, AGENTS

rushing to his side, Mac shaking his head, calmly...

Still staring after the train.

Walkie-talkies WHIP out.  These guys are the same the world over.

We begin to CRANE UP...

Keep PULLING UP, an AERIAL VIEW now, too high to see their faces...

HIGHER still, the mob below an ant colony...

But as the crowd parts.  We can make out one lone man...

Staring after.  What has gone.

FADE TO BLACK.  ROLL END CREDITS.

