FADE IN ON:

EXT. SANTA MONICA PIER - NIGHT

The sultry dampness of a blistering summer hangs in the night

air. People stroll the boardwalk looking for a cool breeze.

The soft rhythms of a jazz concert float from the band shell.

CLOSE SHOT - A PAIR OF SEXY HIGH HEELS

and a woman's shapely legs, walking along the wooden pier.

OPENING TITLES & CREDITS OVER.

After several steps, a discarded piece of gum sticks to one

of her shoes, stretching out stickily. Two steps later, a

piece of paper sticks to the gum, flopping awkwardly with

each step.

The MOVING CAMERA PANS UP her gorgeous legs and sensuous

body. She wears a loose summer dress that floats like gossamer

around her soft curves. Her hair is long and blond.

She stops at the railing. We see an incredibly beautiful

face and cool, alluring eyes. This is LOLA CAIN. The term

"femme fatale" was coined for her. She's on display... and

knows it.

The CAMERA MOVES with her as she walks on, passing TWO MEN

whose eyes are glued to her. We HOLD ON THEM.

One is NED RAVINE, in his thirties, stalwart, handsome, hair

trimmed neatly, but with a feel of loose ends about him...

coat slung over his shoulder, sleeves rolled up, the sweat

dampening his shirt. He's a cop. A plain clothes detective

who's been around the block a few times and still gets lost.

Next to him is ARCH, his partner. Older, if not in years, at

least in mileage. Dependable, solid, with no great aspirations

except to reach the end of a shift intact. He's eating Nachos

from a cardboard container, licking the cheese off his

fingers.

The CAMERA PUSHES IN to NED. His eyes are fixed on Lola.

ANGLE - LOLA - NED'S POV

She walks to the other side of the pier... as more paper

sticks to the gum on her shoe. She stands at the railing.

ANGLE - ARCH

Arch heaves an exasperated sigh and looks toward Ned. The

CAMERA PULLS BACK to INCLUDE NED. It isn't "voice-over"

narration at all. Ned is actually talking out loud.

In the b.g., MILO CRUMLEY, the "Support Hose Bandit", ambles

by casually, unnoticed, sucking on a cherry Snow-Cone through

the panty-hose pulled down over his head.

He pops the last chip in his mouth, licks his fingers and

turns the container over.

Ned shakes his head. Arch heads off to the Nacho stand. Ned

steps over to the railing... gazes out at the ocean.

A SAXOPHONE begins to wail a scorching, romantic melody... a

recurrent tune that will come to be known as LOLA'S THEME.

A beat later... Lola moves to Ned's side at the railing. He

tries to ignore her presence, peering into the darkness.

Lola digs in her purse for a pack of cigarettes.

Ned pulls out a small flashlight, shines it in her purse.

She pulls a cigarette out of the pack, puts it to her lips...

her eyes on Ned, sizing him up.

He pulls out a handful of matchbooks, shows her, then stuffs

them back in his pocket.

He turns and walks along the pier. She falls into step beside

him, lighting her own cigarette. A saxophone player named

DIZZY follows behind them, continuing to play. He's the actual

source of the romantic THEME MUSIC we've been hearing.

Lola looks toward a nearby hot dog vendor.

Lola turns to the hot dog VENDOR, raising two fingers.

She takes them... hands one to Ned. He picks up the plastic

mustard container to put mustard on her hot dog first.

Ned REACTS to this, squeezing the container. A stream of

mustard squirts out, hitting the front of Lola's dress.

Flustered, he stuffs his hot dog into his inside jacket

pocket, then tries to wipe the mustard off Lola's dress,

smearing it all over her, making it worse. She watches him

with a cool, detached gaze as he fumbles ingenuously.

Suddenly, Ned stops, looking off. He sees... Milo Crumley

going into the PUBLIC RESTROOM. Ned starts to leave. Lola

grabs his hand, holding it tightly against her breast.

He heads for the men's room... signaling to Arch, who's

waiting in line at the Nacho stand. Arch motions at the long

line... all UNIFORMED COPS... shrugging helplessly.

INT. MEN'S ROOM ON PIER - NIGHT

Several MEN are at the urinals. Milo, still wearing the panty

hose over his head, washes his face at the sink. He looks

up, sees Ned enter. Ned sees Milo... reacts, pulling the

frankfurter out of his pocket and pointing it.

The Men turn, seeing Ned pointing the frankfurter.

Milo bolts, slamming into Ned, knocking him back through the

door of a stall, into the lap of the MAN inside.

EXT. MEN'S ROOM - NIGHT

Milo bursts out, colliding with Arch. They both go down in a

flurry of Nacho chips and cheese. Arch helps Milo to his

feet, apologizing profusely... picking up the gun that Milo

dropped, handing it back to him. Milo sprints off down the

pier.

A beat later, Ned bursts out the door... dashing after Milo.

ANGLE - ALONG THE PIER

Milo runs frantically, knocking people aside! He ducks into...

INT. BUMPER CAR PAVILION - NIGHT

...and drags a FLUSTERED MAN out of a bumper car, jumps in,

and speeds away!

A beat later, Ned runs up, followed by Arch. Ned flashes his

badge at a FRECKLE-FACED KID in one of the bumper cars.

He pulls the kid out, jumps in, slaps a portable FLASHING

RED LIGHT on the dashboard... then speeds off after Milo, a

SIREN WAILING! He zig-zags through the crush of other bumper

cars in the pavilion.

Ned's bumper car catches up with Milo, pulling alongside.

Milo turns the wheel, RAMMING Ned! Ned RAMS him back, both

bumper cars swerving violently... spraying SPARKS!

Ned SLAMS Milo's car again! Milo loses control, spins out

and SMASHES into the pavillion railing!

Ned swerves to avoid a collision, but RAMS into two other

bumper cars, wrenching to a grinding halt. A BEAT. The AIRBAG

inflates in his bumper car.

Arch runs up as Ned pulls himself from the wreckage. They

turn to see Milo leap from his mangled bumper car, leap over

the pavillion railing and dash down the pier and into an

alley between two buildings. A sign on the building says:

DEAD END ALLEY.

Ned and Arch eye each other, shake their heads, and follow

after Milo.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

IN THE ALLEY

Milo runs into a tall chain link fence at the end of the

alley and scrambles up the wire mesh. Suddenly, Ned's hand

shoots out, grabs Milo's ankle, yanking him down hard.

Milo jumps to his feet, swinging at Ned, who catches Milo's

fist with his hand, stopping it cold... neatly snapping a

handcuff on his wrist. He shoves Milo's arm against the fence

and snaps the other cuff to the chainlink.

A SWITCHBLADE flashes out of Milo's other hand with a sharp

CLICK! Milo slashes the blade at Ned, just missing his face.

On the backswing, Ned parries with his own switchblade and

flips Milo's knife away.

Milo pulls a .45 Calibre REVOLVER with his free hand! Ned

shoves his finger into the end of the barrel. Milo looks

surprised... then sneers, clicking the hammer back.

Milo hesitates, unsure. Finally, he releases the gun. Ned

raises it up on the end of his finger. Arch pulls it off

with a loud POP!

Ned cuffs Milo's hands behind him... spins him around.

REVEAL ARCH

holding up a series of "cue cards"... as Ned reads from them.

He flips out a business card, handing it to Milo.

ANGLE - THE BUSINESS CARD

It reads... "Ned Ravine - Defense Attorney"

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - DAWN

Large. Expensive. Impressive. The name on the mailbox reads

"Ned and Lana Ravine."

We begin to HEAR the O.S. SOUND of passionate lovemaking!

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. HOUSE - DAWN

The CAMERA MOVES up the stairs, into the bedroom. Still O.S.,

we hear more heavy breathing... urgent whispers... lust...

passion... squeaky bedsprings!

A trail of clothes is scattered before us on the way to the

bed... shoes, a dress, slip, bra, nylons, panties... greasy

coveralls with a "Frank Kelbo - Mobile Mechanic" namepatch,

dirty work boots, a wrench and a gigantic grease gun...

The bed shakes violently. A female VOICE calls the shots as

various tools drop to the floor.

A beat. The LIGHT clicks ON. LANA; a sexy redhead with a

cool, manipulative edge, and FRANK; a slick, smarmy Lothario,

lay under the sheets, panting, glistening with sweat.

Lana reaches for a pack of "Fatal 100's" on the bedside table.

She lights a cigarette... exhales a soft, gloomy cloud.

The SOUND of an automobile engine outside. Lana stops him.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - MORNING

Ned glances at the white van parked in the driveway, then

takes note of his wife's silver Mercedes... sitting on floor

jacks, the hood raised, tools spread out around it.

INT. HOUSE - THE KITCHEN - MORNING

Ned enters. Lana wears a diaphanous dressing gown, buttoned

unevenly, hair disheveled. She smokes a cigarette.

Ned kisses her on the back of the neck as he passes through

the kitchen on his way to the dining room. She reacts with

bored, contemptuous disinterest, picking up the coffee pot.

Ned steps back into the kitchen with his briefcase.

Ned sees Frank sitting at the kitchen table, hair messed up,

coveralls hastily pulled on inside-out. Frank is reading a

copy of INSURANCE DIGEST magazine. A headline on the cover

touts an article: "LIFE INSURANCE FOR YOUR CAT!... Cover All

Nine Lives For The Price of One!" Ned's smile fades.

He steps over to the table... gives Frank a cool stare.

Ned turns to Lana.

Lana tenses up at this. Frank freezes. He figures they've

been busted. He sits there, holding the magazine, not moving

a muscle... as Ned turns on him.

Lana braces herself against the sink, breathless... turned

on by Ned's description. Ned goes to her, sympathetic.

He goes to kiss her mouth and she turns her cheek to him. He

looks at her lovingly... touches her face tenderly.

He picks up his briefcase, gives Frank a nasty look, then

exits thru the back door.

Lana and Frank stare at each other lustfully, really hot

now! Frank sweeps the dishes off the table with his arm.

Lana leaps into his arms, wrapping her legs around his waist.

He lays her down on the kitchen table, standing over her.

Suddenly, Ned opens the back door, glaring right at Frank...

not even noticing Lana on the table.

He slams the door. A beat. Lana and Frank begin to devour

each other with passionate kisses. Another beat. The front

doorbell RINGS once... then again.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. NED'S LAW OFFICE - DAY

Richly appointed with stately oak, walls lined with law books.

As in all "Noir" thrillers, venetian blinds cast dramatic

slashes of light and ceiling fans turn lazily in every room.

Ned hurries in, rummaging through the files on his desk.

LAURA, a strikingly lovely brunette, enters from the outer

office, files in hand. She is Ned's astute, dedicated, self-

sacrificing "girl-friday" and legal secretary. She keeps his

life from spinning crazily apart. She absolutely adores him.

She picks up a lawbook, flips it open to a dog-eared page.

He smiles gratefully... drops the file into his briefcase.

Ned heads for the office washroom. Laura darts ahead of him

into the washroom and turns the water on.

Ned steps in... splashes some water on his face. Laura grabs

a towel from the rack where three small towels hang neatly...

hands it to Ned. He dries his face, looking at her with

genuine fondness and gratitude.

She glances toward the toilet, notices it hasn't been flushed.

She FLUSHES it, lowers the seat.

She sits down on the toilet seat, watching him adoringly as

he shaves with an electric razor.

Laura neatly folds the end of the toilet paper into a point.

He clicks off the razor, turns to look at her for a long

moment, considering this, then...

He gives her a manly pat on the shoulder then casually tosses

the towel onto the rack, where it hangs sloppily askew...

right next to her face. He exits.

Laura stares at the towel with a tortured expression. The

CAMERA PUSHES IN to her face as we see...

INT. ULTRA-MODERN BEACH HOUSE - DAY

Scrawled on a steamed-up bathroom mirror - FLASHBACK - CAPE

COD - THREE YEARS EARLIER. A hand wipes the mirror off,

revealing Laura... younger, longer hair, with a nasty black

eye.

LAURA'S HUSBAND appears behind her, glaring insanely. He

looks toward the towel rack.

There are three towels... with HIS - HIS - HIS embossed along

the bottom edge. One towel hangs longer than the others.

She meekly lines up all the towels.

She meekly lines up all the towels.

INT. BEACH HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Laura's Husband pulls the cupboard open. All the cans and

boxes are neatly stacked in straight lines. All except one.

She straightens it... trembling with fear.

EXT. DECK OF BEACH HOUSE - DAY

He pulls her outside, nodding toward a line of tall PINE

trees behind the house. They are all straight and even...

except one, whose tall branches tower conspicuously above

the rest.

He holds up a chainsaw, nodding toward the trees. Shaking

and tearful... she backs into the house.

END FLASHBACK

BACK TO LAURA

SCREAMING out in terror! Ned rushes in, shaking her.

He gives her shoulder a consoling squeeze, then exits. She

shakily straightens the towels and regains her composure.

Ned opens a wardrobe closet in his office. He walks along,

looking at thirty exactly identical blue suits, hanging

neatly. Laura follows behind him. He stops and stares,

indecisive.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Ned turns dramatically to face the jury.

ANGLE - MILO CRUMLEY

sitting next to Laura at the defense table... STILL wearing

the panty hose over his head.

BACK TO SCENE

ANGLE ON NED - JURY'S POV

Ned ignores this, turning to look directly at the CAMERA as

he addresses the jury... holding up a pair of nylon pantyhose.

He puts the pantyhose over the LENS, obscuring our view.

NEW ANGLE - TO INCLUDE NED AND JURY

The nylon pantyhose are draped over the frightened face of a

WOMAN JUROR. All the other Jurors are holding up their own

socks and nylon stockings, trying to peer through them.

Ned steps over to Milo, motioning toward him.

Milo unwraps a piece of bubble gum and pushes it into his

panty-hose covered mouth, chewing the nylon and gum together.

Ned motions toward the gallery, where we SEE...

...MILO'S WIFE and TWO CHILDREN, all wearing panty hose over

their faces. Ned motions toward Milo.

JUDGE ALLEN notices that Milo is chewing gum.

Milo holds up a big plastic bag filled with bubble gum. Judge

Allen grabs it, takes a piece of gum and hands it to the

Bailiff.

The Bailiff takes the bag, offers one to Ned... who takes a

piece, unwraps it and starts chewing. The Bailiff then

proceeds to pass out gum to EVERYONE in the courtroom.

The JURY FOREMAN raises his hand and clears his throat.

The courtroom erupts in CHEERS! Judge Allen raps the gavel.

He does. The Judge leans toward him, reaching out to cover

the microphone, covering the end of the gavel instead. The

Judge's voice is AMPLIFIED over the courtroom speakers.

Ned turns... looking out over the courtroom.

There is a surprised GASP from the crowd... and a loud MURMUR.

The BAILIFF holds out a video box. It's titled HOLY BIBLE -

THE VIDEO. Ned puts one hand on it, raises the other.

Ned sits down... then gets up, his demeanor changing.

He slips back into the witness box.

Ned steps over to Arch, who is sitting in the first row of

the gallery. Arch hands him the Miranda "cue cards."

He lays them on the corner of the stand... then slips into

the chair. He picks the cards up and flips thru them. On the

back we can see scribbled... "NED'S IDIOT CARDS"

Ned jumps to his feet, pacing dramatically, grabbing the

cards.

Ned pivots into the witness stand, changing his attitude

from aggressive attorney to defensive, angry witness as he

hits the chair.

The courtroom ERUPTS! The Judge bangs the gavel. Ned strides

proudly toward the defense table.

Ned turns. The Judge motions with a finger for Ned to approach

the bench. Ned does, resting his hand on it.

The Judge smacks Ned's hand with a ruler!

The Judge mistakenly picks up the microphone and whacks it

on the bench like a gavel. BAM! BAM! BAM! It is DEAFENING!

Everyone covers their ears in pain.

The THX Sound System Logo appears at the bottom of the

screen... along with "The Courtroom Is Listening"

INT. NED'S LAW OFFICE - LATE AFTERNOON

Ned turns the key... enters through the private door. He

HEARS the plaintive sound of a saxophone playing Lola's

Theme... his eyes drawn to the slightly opened door to the

outer office.

ANGLE - NED'S POV THRU OPENING

A gorgeous pair of legs, sleek nylons, high-heeled shoes.

There are several CANDY WRAPPERS, CIGARETTE BUTTS and other

pieces of TRASH stuck to the bottom of one shoe.

NED

pushes the door open. It's Lola. She wears a tight white

dress, long white gloves and broad-brimmed hat. The hat tips

up slowly, revealing her eyes.

Ned reaches in his pocket, pulls out a wet paper towel.

Lola proudly holds up a tiny bobbie pin. She smiles.

Ned looks at the door. The frame and lock have been brutally

chewed away, as if someone used a jackhammer on them! She

pulls out a pack of cigarettes... BLACK LUNG LITES.

He goes to the water cooler. She lights up, exhaling a soft

cloud of smoke through a sleepy smile, her voice purring.

Ned hesitates... about to drink from the paper cup.

He gulps the water down, crumbles the cup in his hand.

Ned turns, tries to casually "dunk" the crumpled cup in the

waste basket. He misses.

Laura enters with a huge pile of lawbooks in her arms. She

sees Ned miss the basket and darts over as he bends down to

pick it up.

She picks it up and tosses it into the waste basket.

Laura sets the heavy load of books on the desk and steps

toward Lola, extending her hand. Lola takes her time removing

the long white glove... finally reaching out and shaking

Laura's hand with a condescending air.

Ned grabs the books and turns to the bookshelf, replacing

each lawbook in its proper slot.

The "handshake" between Lola and Laura turns tense, then

aggressive, eventually becoming a "standing Indian wrestle"

as they try to force each other off balance with sheer force.

Ned is oblivious to the battle behind him, chattering away.

Laura suddenly whirls Lola around, putting her in an arm

lock. But Lola elbows Laura in the stomach! Laura doubles

over. Lola feigns sympathy, taking her hand... then spins,

twisting Laura's arm, flipping her head over heels!

Laura lands on the couch... upside down... gasping. Lola

strikes a haughty pose, still holding her lit cigarette. She

takes a drag. Laura checks her watch, then tumbles off the

couch, landing on her feet. She straightens her skirt.

Finished with the books, Ned turns... smiles.

Lola looks at Laura... icy, haughty, triumphant. Laura moves

reluctantly toward the door, sees the lock and door frame

chewed to pieces... whirls around, heads back toward Ned.

She instantly spins around, heads back toward the door...

...and exits. Ned sits down on the corner of the desk. Lola

sits in the chair across from him.

She crosses her legs suggestively... then slowly, enticingly,

re-crosses them in the other direction.

Unimpressed, Ned opens Laura's desk drawer... pulls a pair

of sexy lace panties from a Kleenex-style dispenser box

labeled "PANDORA'S POP-UP PANTIES"... which pulls another

pair up into position. He tosses the panties to Lola.

She does... very, very slowly and seductively... as they

talk.

She finishes pulling the panties on with a sultry smile...

"snapping" the elastic waistband. She goes to the door,

pauses... turns to him.

She looks around, exhaling another cloud of smoke.

She opens the door. Behind her, in the hall, we see Dizzy,

the saxophone player, wailing away on "Lola's Theme."

CLOSE ON LOLA

She takes a final, long drag on her cigarette, then reaches

O.S. with it... toward Ned.

With a sultry smile, she turns and leaves, closing the door.

ANGLE ON NED

The cigarette is stuck in his nose.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The front door swings open. Frank is standing there, dressed

in a cheap, loose-fitting suit and a T-shirt.

Lana, now wearing the diaphanous gown, pulls him inside. She

kisses him hungrily, slipping a frilly plastic shower cap

with a gaudy floral design on his head.

She walks to the living room. Frank follows, still wearing

the shower cap. Lana snaps her fingers.

He sits in a chair, looking around.

She sits on the couch, picks up a stack of papers.

She looks up at Frank. Sees the shower cap.

He slips the shower cap off as Lana continues.

He flips through, scanning the pages, shrugging.

She drops to her knees in front of him, her face close to

his, speaking with a persuasive urgency.

She gets up, walks to the adjoining room... snapping her

fingers at her side. He follows.

She steps to a table, pulls the cover off an elaborate scale-

model of Dealey Plaza and a train station, complete with HO-

Scale model trains chugging around the tracks.

She uses a pointer to trace the route to the depot.

Ignoring this, she turns the LIGHTS OFF, walks over to a

screen and picks up a remote control. She clicks the button.

A SLIDE PROJECTOR comes on, throwing an IMAGE on Frank's

back. We can read the words: THE PLAN.

He moves over. "THE PLAN" appears on the screen.

As she talks, IMAGES appear on the screen, accompanying her

rapid spiel. We see: a shot of the depot, a map of the rail

route, a gun, a river, a Bingo game, baseball action and a

huge dollar sign!

The lights click ON.

They embrace, kissing passionately, dropping out of frame.

The model train CHUGS faster, the train whistle SHRIEKING a

long "Woooooooo-woooooooooo!"... racing into a model tunnel.

INT. POLICE STATION - SQUAD ROOM - NIGHT

Ned and Arch drag in a bunch of bad-ass, multi-ethnic GANG

MEMBERS they've just busted. Ned angrily shoves one of the

toughest gang members against the wall... losing his cool.

Ned goes ballistic and slams him into the wall again!

Arch grabs Ned by the shoulder, pulling him back, calming

him.

Ned regains his composure. He's depressed.

Gang Member #1 steps closer, listening.

Gang Member #1 steps closer, listening.

He steps between them, putting his arm around Ned's shoulder.

He steps back, begins to SING "Try A Little Tenderness"...

The other Gang Members join in on the SECOND VERSE with a

sweet, mellow street-corner harmony as back-up... and some

smooth group choreography.

The COPS on duty listen raptly, getting maudlin and dewey-

eyed. Tears roll down the cheeks of the BOOKING SERGEANT.

The lights dim. A big, gruff COP makes eyes at a HOOKER being

booked... and they start to slow dance.

Arch watches all this with a sentimental smile, munching on

his Nachos. When the song ends, Arch puts a comforting hand,

covered with Nacho cheese, on Ned's shoulder.

Ned nods, smiles and gratefully "high-fives" the Gang Members

as he heads for the door.

INT. THE HOUSE - LATER THAT NIGHT

The house is dark. A key turns in the lock and Ned enters.

IN THE BEDROOM

It's dark. Ned quietly undresses and slips into bed.

INT. BEDROOM - CLOSE ON LANA - DAWN

Sunlight creeps through the windows. Lana's eyes flutter

open. She sees Ned beside her... sleeping. Suddenly, it hits

her. She turns! Frank is on the other side, curled up,

snoring. She's laying between both men!

Lana elbows Frank. He stirs, groggy. She covers his mouth...

indicating Ned. Frank's eyes bug out! He slips out of bed.

The bed frame SQUEAKS LOUDLY! Frank freezes. Ned sleeps on

steadily.

Frank grabs his clothes. An unending torrent of coins fall

out of his pants pockets, CLANGING on the floor! He freezes.

Ned sleeps on. Frank retrieves the coins, clumsily stepping

on the TV REMOTE CONTROL.

A high-tech, sleekly designed TELEVISION MONITOR rises up...

clicks ON. Frank tries frantically to push the set down, but

it keeps rising into position. An IMAGE appears. It's WILLARD

SCOTT, doing the weather on the TODAY SHOW.

Frank grabs the remote control, frantically pounding on all

the buttons. The VOLUME goes up... SOUND BLASTING!

The alarm clock goes off, CLANGING LOUDLY! Lana dives for

it, slamming her hand down, killing the alarm.

Going for a double-play, she flings the clock at the TV,

nailing the on/off switch! Silence. Ned is still out cold.

Frank moves toward the door... but with each step the floor

CREAKS LOUDLY! He turns the knob. It CLUNKS! He pulls the

door open v-e-r-y s-l-o-w-l-y and it CRE-E-E-E-A-K-S like

the piercing metal brakes of a train!

He blows Lana a kiss, then pulls the door closed very gently.

It sticks. He pulls harder. The knob pops off in his hand

and he falls backward, tumbling down the stairs with a HUGE

RACKET! Ned doesn't stir. Finally it's SILENT. Lana exhales.

A SMALL BIRD lands on the sill of the open window, trilling

a sweet little "CHIRP." Ned sits bolt upright, irritated.

He grabs his shoe, heaving it toward the open window.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - MORNING

Frank glances back up at the bedroom window with an arrogant

smirk. WHAP! Ned's shoe hits him right in the face!

EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

Ned comes down the courthouse steps. He pauses in the street,

glimpsing the back of a WOMAN passing nearby... a STUNNING

BLOND decked out in a clinging dress and fashionable hat...

a long strip of toilet paper trailing from her high heel

shoe. It must be LOLA. He turns to watch her.

A HORN BLARES! BRAKES SCREECH! The SOUND OVERLAPS to...

INT. NED'S LAW OFFICE - DAY

The door opens. Ned enters, looking terrible. Suit ripped,

hair messed up, bruised and battered, briefcase crushed.

INSIDE THE OFFICE

MRS. SHADY, an older woman with a pleasant appearance, sits

in an overstuffed leather chair. Ned and Laura enter.

Ned goes straight to his office closet, pulls out an identical

blue suit... and starts stripping off his tattered clothes.

Laura reluctantly returns to the outer office.

He goes to her, putting a comforting hand on her shoulder,

looking her right in the eye, attempting to provide solace.

She struggles to her feet feebly...

She hauls off and PUNCHES him like a pile driver! WHAM! He

doubles over, gasping.

She KNEES him in the face, raising him up... then nails him

with a devastating RIGHT CROSS, spinning him around. He

collapses over the desk.

She grabs the tail of his suit jacket and rips it up the

back!

She turns and shuffles out, passing through the outer office.

She grabs a handful of cookies and casually flings them at

Laura... as she heads out the door.

Laura rushes into Ned's office with the file folder. He

staggers unsteadily by the desk.

Laura looks puzzled... wondering where it might be. Then...

She goes to her desk in the outer office, digs through a

drawer. Suddenly, she GASPS!

She is holding...

A FRAMED PHOTOGRAPH

of her abusive HUSBAND... sneering. A circle has been drawn

around his head with lipstick and a diagonal line slashed

across his face.

MATCH DISSOLVE TO: FLASHBACK

HER HUSBAND'S FACE

peers out through a sailboat porthole at stormy seas. A piece

of masking tape stuck to the glass matches the diagonal line.

INT. CABIN OF SAILBOAT - NIGHT

Laura's Husband turns from the porthole. Laura cowers.

The boat pitches and heaves, disturbing all the neatly hung

towels, emblazoned with MINE - MINE - MINE across the bottom

edge. Laura's Husband reacts with a crazed look in his eyes.

Laura makes a break for it, running up on deck.

EXT. SAILBOAT IN STORM - NIGHT

Laura's Husband scrambles up onto the deck, looking fore and

aft. Laura's vanished! He looks out to sea, calling...

EXT. BEACH - NIGHT

Laura paddles ashore, grasping a little kid's inflatable

float ring. She struggles onto the sand and looks out to

sea, triumphant... tossing the plastic float aside.

MONTAGE - ULTRA CONTEMPO BEACH HOUSE - NIGHT

-- Laura rushes in, tracking water all through the house.

-- Laura cuts an inch of hair from her amazingly long, very

wet tresses, then puts on a WIG... that is also LONG and

WET!

-- Laura retrieves a bra and a package of Twinkies from a

secret hiding place... and stuffs them into a small brown

paper bag.

-- Laura hurriedly mops up her water tracks, then...

-- She uses an industrial buffer to wax the hardwood floor.

-- Laura removes her wedding ring... throws it in the toilet.

She reaches for the handle to flush it... hesitates, seeing

the "CONSERVE WATER - THIS MEANS YOU!" sticker on the toilet.

She reaches into the bowl and retrieves the ring.

-- On the deck, Laura throws the wedding ring toward the

ocean. A SEAGULL swoops down, snatching it in mid-air and

flies off.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

-- In the bathroom... the Seagull flies in through the open

window, lands on the back of the toilet and drops the ring...

into the toilet bowl!

EXT. THE BEACH - NEXT MORNING

Laura's Husband reaches into the surf and picks up the

deflated float ring. He looks at it with a cruel sneer.

INT. BEACH HOUSE - BATHROOM

Laura's Husband fishes Laura's wedding ring out of the toilet

bowl... looking off with demonic rage!

END FLASHBACK MONTAGE

THE CAMERA PULLS BACK

from Laura's SCREAMING mouth! Her eyes are filled with pure

terror! A GIGANTIC wave of WATER splashes in her face!

We see Ned... holding a tiny empty paper cup in his hand.

Laura is completely drenched!

She snaps out of it, sputtering.

She goes to her desk, still upset. She picks up the message

spike and turns to Ned.

She thrusts it toward Ned's face! There's a business card

stuck on the end. He pulls it off.

ANGLE - CLOSE ON BUSINESS CARD

It reads: LE HOT CLUB! No Air Conditioning... And Proud Of

It! Scribbled next to it is the message... "Meet me at 7:30".

The edges of the card are scorched.

INT. LE HOT CLUB - NIGHT

It's dark, seductive, smoky, crowded... and HOT. Everybody

is dripping with sweat and holding unlit cigarettes.

Ned enters, sees Lola sitting on a stool at the bar, one leg

crossed provocatively over the other. A beer can is stuck to

the gum on the bottom of her shoe. It falls off with a CLUNK.

He sits on the stool next to her. She looks at him, smiles.

He reaches into his jacket pocket, pulls out a LIT CIGARETTE.

It has a very long ash.

She takes it... inhales a drag, then lets the smoke flow out

through her smile. It flows out for a loooooooooong time!

More smoke than she could ever have inhaled. Then...

He notices the drink in her hand is BOILING. A saxophone

begins to softly wail Lola's Theme. Ned looks over to see a

QUARTET, featuring Dizzy on sax. The GUITARIST spontaneously

bursts into FLAME! A FIREMAN, in full gear, jumps up from

the bar and puts out the blaze with a fire extinguisher.

None of the band members miss a beat.

Ned glances at the MALE CUSTOMERS... sitting at the bar across

from them. They're staring coldly at Ned.

A beat of realization, then the stool collapses with a CRASH!

Ned pulls himself back up and drags another stool over.

Lola stares at Ned for a long moment... then SLAPS his face.

He doesn't move, remaining staunchly macho. Then, suddenly,

she SLUGS HIM so hard it knocks him over the top of the bar!

She pauses to give him a flicker of a COY SMILE... then picks

up her drink and moves to a nearby table. Ned struggles to

his feet and staggers to the door.

INT. NED'S CAR - NIGHT

Ned is a mess! Blood trickles from the side of his mouth.

Shirt soaked in sweat. He turns the radio ON. LOLA'S THEME

starts playing.

A small ceiling fan hangs from the interior roof of his car,

turning slowly. The venetian blinds on his side windows are

partially open, letting in slashes of dramatic light.

ANGLE - HIS POV OF ROAD

He's following Lola's car. It signals and turns left.

INT. NED'S CAR - NIGHT

Still hot, Ned pulls the chain on the ceiling fan. It spins

faster. MUCH faster! The car becomes like a wind tunnel!

EXT. LOLA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The two cars enter a long drive, coming to a stop near a

large two story house surrounded by lush greenery.

Ned climbs out... his wind-blown hair flattened on one side

and sticking out crazily.

ANGLE - LOLA'S CAR DOOR - NED'S POV

It opens. Lola's legs swing out. The CAMERA PANS DOWN her

long legs to her feet. The car floormat is stuck to one shoe.

She casually shakes it off... going to the front door.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

They enter. It's DARK. Ned squints into the shadows.

Lola CLAPS her hands twice and all the LIGHTS COME ON. She

smiles at him... drops her car keys on the hall table, then

goes up the stairs.

Ned drops his car keys on the table too and follows her.

EXT. PORCH OFF BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lola clicks on a porch light. She and Ned step out. Dozens

of small boxes hang around the perimeter of the porch.

Ned steps over, running his hands along the boxes. They "thud"

against each other.

He slips several boxes off, releasing clusters of the metal

chimes. They "tinkle" and "clang" melodically in the breeze.

She moves close, coming on to him. Ned feels uneasy.

INT. DRESSING AREA OFF BEDROOM - NIGHT

Lola comes in, looks around, then down. She removes her shoe,

pulling off two scraps of paper stuck to the gum on her heel.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Ned is looking through a book... "KAMIKAZE KAMA SUTRA - The

Encyclopedia of Deadly Sexual Positions." Lola comes back

in, hands Ned the two scraps of paper.

He checks them out... shrugs. It's obvious.

He hands them back to her, but she gently pushes them away.

She slips them into his jacket pocket... then sensuously

slides her hands around him, grabbing his buns, pulling him

closer.

She seductively starts to slide the jacket off his shoulders.

He turns and leaves. She is stunned, confused, breathless.

EXT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

Ned opens the door, pauses, turns... as Lola joins him there.

She looks into his eyes with desire.

She moves her lips close to his, about to kiss him. Then...

He steps out, pauses... turns to her.

Ned pulls the door shut. The lock CLICKS. He pauses by his

car, realizing something, heaves a sigh, goes back to the

door.

He tries the knob, but the door is locked. He looks through

the small window. He sees Lola standing inside... breathing

heavily, bracing herself against the staircase bannister,

hand to her heaving chest as if to calm a pounding heart.

He pushes against the door. It won't budge. He goes to the

large window, gazing inside. She slides one hand enticingly

across her breast and thigh, striking a seductive pose.

He points toward the door, motioning for her to unlock it.

She looks away. Frustrated, Ned tries the window. It's locked.

He picks up a wrought iron chair, SLAMS it into the window!

The heavy chair falls apart. The glass doesn't even vibrate!

He sees a riding power mower in the driveway... jumps into

the seat, starts the engine... barreling toward the front of

the house! THUNDER CRASHES and LIGHTNING FLASHES in the sky!

He PLOWS into the side of the house, SMASHING a huge hole

thru the wall!... MOWING a swath in the carpet!

Lola GASPS. Ned climbs off the mower, moving toward her. She

opens her arms, breathless. The MUSIC SWELLS dramatically!

She intercepts him, embracing him passionately.

He struggles free, grabbing his car keys from the hall table.

She follows, embracing him again, even more tenaciously.

Impatient, she crushes her mouth against his, kissing him

hard, desperately clawing at his clothes. She's relentless...

devouring him with her lips and tongue.

Overwhelmed, he succumbs to her passion. His car keys drop

from his hand. She pushes him down toward the floor.

LOW ANGLE - AT FLOOR LEVEL

Her hands grasp his shirt, ripping it open. The buttons fly

in all directions! She grabs at his leather belt, twisting

it in her hands... ripping it in two!

She grabs his pants by the cuffs... rips one pant leg off!

Then the other!... tossing them over each shoulder!

Ned and Lola tumble across the floor, arms and legs

entangled... rolling themselves up in a rug in the process.

ANGLE - FIREPLACE

A roaring fire. We HEAR O.C. MOANING and HEAVY BREATHING.

The CAMERA TILTS DOWN to a sheepskin rug in front of the

fireplace. No one is there! A crystal vase falls, CRASHING

on the stone hearth. The CAMERA TILTS UP to REVEAL Ned and

Lola... stretched out on the mantle, ravishing each other.

ANGLE - THE REFRIGERATOR

The door suddenly BURSTS OPEN! Ned and Lola tumble out...

wrapped in each other's arms, food tumbling out with them.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

ANGLE - THE DINING ROOM TABLE

The table wiggles. The CAMERA MOVES UP to REVEAL Ned and

Lola kissing passionately. She lays on the table, arms and

legs stretched upward... a spinning plate balanced on the

pointed finger of each hand... and a large spinning platter

balanced on the end of her pointed left toe. Her right foot

brushes the platter to keep it spinning. The Ed Sullivan

Show position.

SEVERAL ANGLES - IN BED

-- Ned and Lola's entangled legs, moving under the sheets.

-- Ned sitting, wrists tied to the brass bed with silk

scarves.

-- Lola, also with her wrists tied to the bed with silk

scarves.

-- Then... A WIDER ANGLE... revealing that they are BOTH

tied... at opposite ends of the same bed!

ANGLE - THE BASEMENT STAIRS

Wrapped in each other's arms, they tumble down the stairs...

crashing into a workbench, still kissing passionately!

ANGLE - A WALL SOCKET

Ned's hand plugs in a cord. RACK FOCUS to a soft lamb's wool

BUFFER WHEEL rising into frame, WHIRRING. It dips into an

open can of FLOOR WAX... then moves over to Lola's naked

body, buffing the surface of her skin to a high gloss. The

CAMERA MOVES to her EYES. They're CROSSED in ecstasy.

ANGLE - THE BEDROOM FLOOR

HEAVY BREATHING. SQUEAKY BED NOISES. The CAMERA MOVES up

along the mattress. The bed moves with a jerky rhythm. The

CAMERA REVEALS Lola's hand, grasping the sheet tightly. WE

MOVE UP to Lola, lying face down against the pillow.

FULL SHOT - THE BED

Ned jumps up and down on the bed like a trampoline! Lola is

on her stomach, bouncing each time Ned's feet hit the bed.

He does a complete BACK FLIP!... then keeps bouncing.

EXT. THE ROOFTOP - NIGHT

The wind blows. THUNDER and LIGHTNING! RAIN pours down.

Ned and Lola, both in yellow rain slickers, ravish each other

lustfully on the roof, sliding down the incline of shingles.

Oblivious to the peril, they slip right over the edge!

They hang from the eaves trough, each clutching it with one

hand while still holding one another with their free arms...

kissing passionately. The trough breaks! They fall!

ANGLE - THE GROUND BELOW

They roll out of the bushes onto the lawn, arms and legs

entangled. They fall apart, gasping for breath. A beat.

Ned's eyes widen. Lola grins lustily, rolling on top of him.

INT. PRISON CELL - MORNING

The cell wall is a clutter of PHOTOS: Hitler... Mussolini...

Charles Manson... and his mother, Mrs. Shady.

A man's muscular naked torso rises into frame, his back to

us. He's doing pull-ups, his body covered with TATTOOS!

Quotes on each arm... "Don't have a cow, man!" - Bart

Simpson... and "I know you are, but what am I?" - Pee Wee

Herman.

On one shoulder, a gravestone with the epitaph "I told you I

was sick!"

In the center of his back... we see a big tattoo of Ned's

face labeled "DEAD MEAT."

A GUARD opens the cell door.

The prisoner turns. He's butt-ugly, hard, nasty looking.

It's MAX SHADY... with a HUGE "Double Corona" CIGAR in his

mouth. On his chest is a tattoo that reads: THIS SPACE FOR

RENT. He walks right toward the CAMERA LENS and the FRAME

goes TO BLACK.

BLACK FRAME

EXT. FEDERAL PRISON - MORNING

Two huge iron doors swing open and a mob of milling REPORTERS

rushes forward, surrounding Max Shady. He wears a blue suit

just like Ned's. The Reporters have no microphones, but shove

their empty hands at Max as if they do. They shout questions.

Shady sees someone o.s., waves like a gleeful little kid.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - MORNING

A ceiling fan rotates slowly... a pair of shorts and a nylon

stocking hanging from the blades. The house is a wreck!

The CAMERA MOVES DOWN to Ned and Lola, both reclining in a

big claw-foot bathtub, facing each other, their arms draped

lazily over the sides. Ned's eyes are closed.

"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida" plays on the stereo in the b.g.

Lola's hand reaches for an ICE PICK on the floor, raising it

up slowly. Then... CLICK!... ignites the cigarette lighter

in the handle, touching the flame to the end of her cigarette.

She chips away a big chunk of ice from the block in a silver

ice bucket beside her... then sensuously rubs the ice across

her breasts. Ned winces at the sight of this.

Lola smiles at him, then lets the chunk of ice slide into

the water... and pushes it between Ned's legs. He cringes,

eyes crossed. The familiar repetition of MUSICAL notes from

the stereo DRONES LOUDER... grabbing Ned's attention.

He lifts his feet out of the water, dangles them over each

side of the tub. He's still wearing one blue sock. Lola raises

her feet out of the water. She's still wearing her high heel

shoes. They are dripping.

Ned pulls his feet in, sits up... suddenly feeling vulnerable.

He measures his words very, very carefully.

His voice begins to ECHO and FADE as the CAMERA MOVES IN to

a CU of Lola's enraged EYES!

And then WE SEE...

A CLOSE SHOT of her hand, grasping the ice pick... scratching

it along the side of the tub, peeling back the porcelain. A

GRATING SCREECH OVERLAPS to...

INT. PET STORE - DAY

TIGHT on a SCREECHING TROPICAL BIRD. We PULL BACK to reveal

Ned looking around the store. His ripped pants have been

temporarily repaired with big pieces of masking tape. A CLERK

steps over with two big Parrots on her shoulders.

She eyes him suspiciously.

Turns and SHOUTS at the noisy birds.

They do. She turns back to Ned.

INT. POLICE SQUAD ROOM - DAY

A typical police squad room... smoke-filled, cluttered, busy.

Arch sits at a desk doing paperwork, surrounded by the Gang

Members... who are also filling out papers. Arch SINGS to

himself, munching on nachos from a big pile of chips. The

Gang Members harmonize with him.

A Gang Member reaches for a nacho chip. Arch grabs for the

gun in his shoulder holster.

The Gang Member drops the chip. Arch pops it in his mouth,

continues singing. The Gang Members join in with harmony.

Ned enters in the background, carrying a box with airholes

in it. He steps over to his desk, looking at the singing

Gang Members, then motions like a choir leader, cutting them

off neatly.

They all hand over their completed paperwork. Ned stares at

them for a beat... surprised.

They do. He opens the files... checks out the papers. Arch

notices something O.S. and gets up.

Arch turns the sound up on a wall-mounted TV monitor.

On the screen... it's Max Shady speaking to the press.

Arch slumps in his chair, really stunned.

Ned laughs it off. He starts checking through the messages

and paperwork on his desk. The PHONE RINGS. He picks it up.

Ned's face darkens. He turns away.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - TIGHT SHOT - LOLA'S MOUTH - DAY

Speaking into the phone... intense, obsessive.

INT. POLICE SQUAD ROOM - DAY

He SLAMS the receiver down, shattering the phone! Everyone

stares at Ned in stunned silence.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - DAY

She's in the bathtub, phone receiver in one hand, still

jabbing at the porcelain tub with the ice pick. Water squirts

from the holes she's punctured in the side of the tub. She

flings the ice pick at the wall. It sticks!

EXT. PARK - DAY

Lana is seated on a park bench wearing a trenchcoat, hat and

sunglasses. Frank walks up, looks around nervously, pretending

not to know Lana. He sits down next to her.

She hands him a hat.

She takes her sunglasses off, looks at him. He hesitates,

staring at the hat. A dignified looking OLDER GENTLEMAN

approaches. Frank quickly slips the hat on his head.

The Older Gentleman sits on the bench across from them. He

opens a paper sack and begins neatly laying his lunch out

next to him. An apple, sandwich, napkin, Mountain Dew.

We see the SUB-TITLE "Speak Yiddish." From this point on,

all their dialog is in YIDDISH... but it appears in ENGLISH

SUB-TITLES across the bottom of the screen.

INTERCUT - ANGLE ON OLDER GENTLEMAN

He tosses crumbs of his sandwich to the pigeons, occasionally

glancing up at Frank and Lana. Whenever they speak, however,

his eyes look down toward their legs.

INTERCUT - MEDIUM TWO-SHOT ON FRANK AND LANA

with SUB-TITLES across the bottom of screen, about knee-level.

He looks around nervously.

They both look at him... stunned. A long beat.

Frank and Lana are speechless. But across the bottom of the

screen we see a SUB-TITLE reflecting their thoughts.

INT. NED'S LAW OFFICE - DAY

Ned enters, carrying the box. He sets it down on her desk.

He goes into his office, starts to change out of his tattered

suit. Laura talks to him from the outer office.

She steps into the doorway of his office.

She returns to her desk. Disturbed, Ned quickly pulls the

shirt collar out, checks it.

She opens the blinds behind her and looks at Ned through the

window between their offices.

She picks up a stack of papers from the FAX machine. Ned

steps into the doorway, wearing a clean shirt.

There's a KNOCK at the door. They look up to see an ominous

SILHOUETTE of a MAN on the milkglass. Ned starts toward the

door. Laura grabs his arm, stopping him.

She opens her purse, pulls out a big COLT .45, holding it

out to him. Ned stares at it, taken aback.

He hands the gun back to her... goes to the door... opens

it. There's a young DELIVERY MAN holding a bouquet of flowers.

Ned grabs the flowers, slams the door. Laura takes the

envelope from the flowers... opens it.

She looks at the card... her expression turning cold.

She grabs the flowers... takes them into the bathroom.

Ned opens the envelope. An audio cassette drops into his

hand. Written on the label: PLAY ME.

From the bathroom, we hear the LOUD SOUND of a TOILET

FLUSHING.

INT. NED'S CAR - NIGHT

It's raining. Ned pops the cassette into the tape player.

Ned swerves to avoid a collision, HONKING his horn.

Ned guns it!... accelerating through a yellow light.

We see HEADLIGHTS behind Ned's car.

INT. LOLA'S CAR - NIGHT

She is following him, her eyes intense, obsessed. Dizzy sits

in the back seat, noodling softly on his saxophone.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Ned steps into the living room carrying the box. Lana comes

down the stairs, pulling on a bathrobe.

In the b.g., through the window, WE SEE Frank drop from the

second floor, right onto the seat of a waiting motorcycle.

He ZOOMS OFF into the night.

Ned steps up behind Lana, slips his arms around her.

She rolls her eyes at this... changes the subject.

He hands it to her. She opens it, looks in. She looks up,

struggling unsuccessfully to hide a look of displeasure.

Ned pulls out a PET SKUNK and puts it in Lana's lap. She

forces a weak smile.

EXT. HOUSE - NIGHT

Lola stands in the pouring rain outside, drenched... staring

at Lana and Ned through the window.

INT. HOUSE - NIGHT

He puts his arms around them both.

The phone RINGS. Lana stands up, unceremoniously dropping

the Skunk into Ned's arms. She goes into...

THE ADJOINING ROOM

...to answer the phone.

EXT. THE HOUSE - NIGHT

Lola is in a glass telephone booth with venetian blinds and

a ceiling fan. She cracks the blinds open. In the background,

through a window, we can see Lana in the house on the phone.

INT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

Ned enters the cavernous marble rotunda, turns down a hallway

crowded with milling attorneys and defendants. Lola suddenly

intercepts him... a newspaper trailing from her high heel

shoe.

He starts to move off, but she stops him, impassioned.

Lola's voice ECHOES. BYSTANDERS gather, listening. Ned looks

around self-consciously, embarrassed.

The CROWD presses closer... not missing a thing. A WOMAN

snaps a FLASH PICTURE! A MAN turns on his video camera.

Mortified, Ned spins on his heels and makes a bee-line for

the safety of the Men's Room. Lola holds up two tickets.

INT. MEN'S ROOM - DAY

Ned bursts in, goes to the urinal... not noticing BEN ARUGULA,

an older gentleman in a business suit, standing at the urinal

next to him. A beat later... Lola enters.

Arugula glances sideways at Ned, curious and uneasy.

EXT. SHOOTING RANGE - DAY

Lana FIRES her gun rapidly... BANG! BANG! BANG! BANG!...

over her shoulder, behind her back, under her leg.

ANGLE ON TARGET

A full-body cut-out of a man, wearing one of Ned's trademark

gray suits. A HUGE SMOKING HOLE has been blown right through

the crotch! Lana smirks, inhales the SMOKE from the gun

barrel... and blows it out.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

TILT DOWN from an official government seal that reads "ARS

GRATIA ARTIS." JUDGE Ben Arugula... the distinguished looking

gentleman from the men's room, sits on the bench. Ned, Laura

and a SLIMY DEFENDANT stand at the defense table.

ANGLE - JURY AND BAILIFF

The BAILIFF is handing out straitjackets to all the JURORS.

The Jury Foreman struggles to get his on and laced up.

BACK TO JUDGE ARUGULA

INT. COURTHOUSE HALLWAY - DAY

The JURY is led from the courtroom in straitjackets and

chains. Ned and Laura follow them out.

In the b.g. the Slimy Defendant pulls a gun and forces

CITIZENS... including Judge Arugula... up against the wall,

robbing them!

As they walk off, we HOLD ON a CLOSE SHOT of a newspaper.

The headline reads: EX-CON STALKS COP/LAWYER NED RAVINE!

Below it is a picture of Max Shady, eyes wide with psychotic

rage... a huge cigar in his mouth, wearing a garish Hawaiian

shirt.

Hands lower the newspaper... revealing Max himself, with the

same cigar, shirt and crazed look on his face.

INT. LE MISS FASHION BOUTIQUE - DAY - MONTAGE

Laura models hats... each one becoming more outrageous. She

coaxes Ned into joining her. They BOTH try on WOMEN's hats...

smiling and laughing... as "Brown Eyed Girl" plays.

In one of the mirrors, we SEE Max Shady's reflection... as

he also tries on women's hats, watching them, puffing his

cigar.

INT. LE HULA BOWL RESTAURANT - NIGHT

Laura wears a baseball cap with beer cans attached to each

side with long, curved plastic straws. The cap emblem reads

"BEER BIMBO." A price tag hangs from it. She is beaming.

In the b.g., Hawaiian DANCERS juggle flaming torches as they

dance around an ICE SCULPTURE of a Hula Dancer.

Ned motions casually toward the world "out there"... sticking

his thumb into the eye of a WAITER who is bending over to

pick up a spoon, setting off a chaotic CHAIN REACTION of

small disasters that finally culminates with someone near

the dance floor bumping into the Torch Juggler, throwing his

rhythm off.

Distracted, he starts catching the FLAMING ENDS of the

torches! OW! OH! YI! OUCH! YIPES!

He drops them all. The Waiter who bumped into him, politely

picks up one of the flaming torches and hands it back to the

Torch Juggler. He grabs the flaming end of the torch... and

lets out a SCREAM!

He lunges toward a voluptuous HULA GIRL ICE SCULPTURE,

grabbing the frozen breasts. His burned hands SIZZLE!

Ned and Laura don't even notice... gazing only at each other.

ANGLE - MAX SHADY

sits at a corner table wearing a chic beret from the hat

store, voraciously devouring a huge Hawaiian Pit Roasted

Pig. He wrenches the apple from the Pig's mouth... takes a

huge bite!

BACK TO NED AND LAURA

A saxophone begins to wail "Lola's Theme." Ned looks up, his

eyes drawn to the lounge. He sees...

Lola... striking a sexy pose on a bar stool, eyes locked on

Ned. Dizzy walks thru, behind the bar, playing his sax.

She grabs a handful of cherries from a glass on the bar,

shoves them in her mouth, cheeks bulging, tongue moving

furiously. A moment later, she pulls out a long chain of

inter-locked cherry stems.

Ned reacts, shaken, glancing nervously at Laura. She smiles,

unaware. His eyes flash back to Lola.

Ned's reacts intensely to...

LOLA - NED'S POV

She stretches out sensuously on the bar, executing a series

of humanly impossible erotic gymnastic positions! Then,

wrapping her legs around a brass pole, she spins no-handed...

until her thighs begin to SMOKE!

REVERSE ANGLE - ON ENTIRE ROOM

The eyes of every MALE in the restaurant are riveted on Lola!

CLOSER ON NED AND LAURA

The table starts to rise slowly on Ned's side, glasses sliding

toward Laura. She reaches out to stop them... noticing Ned's

distracted expression.

She gulps, eyes wide. The DRUMS pound faster as the Dancers

in the b.g. pick up the frenetic tempo!

Breathless, she breaks a sweat, gasping for air. The DRUMS

beat LOUDER, FASTER. The b.g. Dancers whip into a frenzy!

Both of Laura's ballcap beer cans EXPLODE! Beer SPRAYS out

in a huge gush, drenching her! Ned is so preoccupied with

his own dilemma, he doesn't even notice. He heaves a sigh...

pats her hand... smiles philosophically.

ANGLE - AN ICE PICK

grasped tightly in Lola's hand. She walks toward Ned and

Laura, a seething rage in her eyes.

As she passes the ice sculpture, she stabs the ice pick into

the crystalline Hula Dancer's neck! The head breaks off. She

catches it and keeps coming, tossing the head casually in

one hand, like a basketball.

Lola appears suddenly at Ned and Laura's table. They look

up.

She drops the ice Mermaid head. It shatters Laura's glass to

bits! Lola turns to Ned with a cold glare.

She lights her cigarette with the ice pick lighter, then

flips it like a jackknife. It STICKS into Ned's chair, right

between his legs.

Lola flashes a coldly arrogant smile at Laura... then exits.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - MORNING

Frank opens the hood to Ned's car, holding a screwdriver in

one hand... a wrench in the other. He doesn't know where to

start.

CLOSE ANGLE - MAX SHADY'S FEET - MORNING

A NEWSBOY tosses a folded newspaper. It lands at Max Shady's

feet. Max picks up the paper, opens it. The headline says:

SHADY READS NEWSPAPER IN FRONT OF RAVINE RESIDENCE! Max looks

around self-consciously, eyes shifting uneasily.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - MORNING

Lana stands by the front door. She calls upstairs to Ned.

Frank slips in, wearing his greasy overalls. He wipes his

hands on a rag... giving Lana a sly wink.

She steps over to the blinds and demonstrates. He knocks.

She nods, patronizing. Frank exits. Lana picks up the Skunk,

cuddling him. Ned comes down wearing his trademark gray suit.

Lana kisses him passionately... a final farewell.

As soon as Ned closes the door, Lana's smile vanishes and

she casually tosses the Skunk aside with a LOUD CRASH O.C.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - DRIVEWAY - MORNING

Ned turns the car key. Nothing. He gets out, opens the hood.

He stares... dumbfounded.

INT. THE HOUSE - MORNING

Ned comes in, visibly upset. Lana acts surprised.

Ned looks at her strangely. She catches herself.

Lana goes to the window, starts to raise the blinds.

She stops... letting the blinds drop down.

She starts to raise the blinds again. He picks up the phone.

He slams the receiver down. Lana drops the blinds again...

She starts to raise the blinds again...

She abandons the blinds, leaving them raised part way...

There's a KNOCK at the door. Lana tugs on the cord and the

blinds drop with a CRASH. The KNOCKING stops. She pretends

it didn't even happen, racing on.

She grabs the cord, then hesitates...

A beat. He nods. She quickly pulls the blinds up.

A LOUD KNOCK at the front door. Lana opens it. It's Frank.

They all freeze. Lana glares at Frank, who is completely

unaware of his faux pas... while Ned tries to figure out why

that response didn't sound right.

INT. FRANK'S VAN - DAY

They climb into the van. Ned nervously checks his watch.

EXT. FRANK'S VAN - DAY

The CAMERA BOOMS DOWN LOW to reveal Max Shady under the van,

hanging on like a leech, his back only inches from the road.

The van drives off.

INT. FRANK'S VAN - MINUTES LATER

At an intersection... they see a "DETOUR" sign. Frank and

Lana exchange concerned looks. Frank turns the corner. The

van starts vibrating violently, tossing them around.

He shifts gears, guns the engine. They rocket ahead, BOUNCING

WILDLY, their heads THUMPING the car roof! The van SPLASHES

through deep water, a huge fantail spraying out on both sides.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY

The train is pulling in. The CAMERA PANS to Frank's muddy

van as it drives up nearby. Frank waits in the van as Ned

and Lana get out and walk toward the train.

They pass a feeble OLD WOMAN struggling to drag a HUGE STEAMER

TRUNK along the platform... inches at a time. A REDCAP passes

her also, carrying a small overnight case for an attractive,

elegantly attired SOCIALITE. Everyone ignores the Old Woman.

Ned looks nervously at the train, already pale.

She kisses his cheek. He reluctantly boards the train. Her

smile vanishes.

She hurries back to the next car, nods at Frank, boards the

train. Frank peels off his coveralls, follows her on.

ANGLE - COACH PLATFORM

Laura's Husband steps from the train, holding the deflated

Ninja Turtle float ring. He looks around, then walks toward

the cab stand. The CAMERA MOVES with him, then HOLDS ON...

MAN READING NEWSPAPER - TIGHT SHOT

The headline says: SHADY VOWS BLENDER VENGEANCE ON RAVINE!

Under the headline is a picture of Max Shady... muddy, bloody,

greasy, clothes ripped, cigar shredded... looking off.

The paper lowers, revealing Max... a battered mess, looking

off. He picks up a small violin case and quickly moves toward

the train as it starts to pull out.

We now SEE that the seat of Max's pants has been ripped out,

his naked buttocks scratched and scraped raw by the road.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned stares out the window... apprehensive, nervous.

Frank and Lana enter at the opposite end of the coach. They

spot Ned, quickly ducking into a seat where they can observe

him yet remain hidden from view behind the tall seatbacks.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

Max walks through the car looking for Ned. He pauses, puffing

on his big cigar. A WOMAN PASSENGER looks up and is shocked

to see Max's scraped bare butt hanging out only inches away.

Max swivels around to look at her... turning his bare behind

toward an IRRITABLE MAN across the aisle.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Max enters through the vestibule, without his cigar, stopping

in his tracks when he sees Ned. He smiles to himself, then

ducks back into the lavatory.

INT. LAVATORY - DAY

Max looks at himself in the mirror. He's a disaster. He opens

the violin case, pulling out his trademark "Ned Ravine" gray

suit on a hangar. It's not even wrinkled.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned looks pale... sweating... reacting tensely to every lurch

and bump the train makes. The feeble Old Woman strains to

pull her huge steamer trunk down the aisle, inch by inch,

toward Ned.

ANGLE ON FRANK AND LANA

Lana peers over the seat, watching Ned with a cruel smile.

INT. LAVATORY - DAY

Max is cleaned up, dressed in the suit. He straightens his

tie, slicks his greasy hair back, sticks a big cigar in his

mouth and grins at himself in the mirror.

He reaches into the violin case, pulls out a complex

assortment of metal parts, assembling them swiftly. CLICK...

SNAP... CLUNK! It's an incredibly nasty looking high-tech,

automatic weapon with gigantic cartridge clip.

He screws on a long silencer and points the gun at the

ceiling. POOF!... a muffled gunshot! Debris fall around him.

He looks up. He has blown a HOLE through the roof of the

coach.

He adjusts the Silencer Volume Control, which has a scale

from 1 thru 11. He turns it all the way down to "0"... DEAD

SILENT. He pulls the trigger. The gun RECOILS, but there is

absolutely NO SOUND! He has blown another HOLE in the ceiling.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned looks across the aisle to see a GROSS SLOB pulling all

kinds of strange food items from a paper bag, making a big,

sloppy, disgusting SANDWICH that squirts and drips all over.

Ned turns away... really queasy now.

INT. LAVATORY - DAY

Max reaches into the case, pulls out A BLENDER! He plugs it

into the outlet and REVS it a couple times, grinning wickedly.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Max steps out of the lavatory and sees the CONDUCTOR coming

his way collecting tickets. He quickly spins around, slides

the door open and steps into the vestibule between cars.

The Conductor can't get past the Old Woman, so he climbs

over the top of her trunk, with no thought of helping her.

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

Max looks out the side window, trying to conceal the weapon

in front of him. The Conductor enters, sees him.

Without turning, Max holds the ticket up over his shoulder.

The Conductor takes it, punches it, notices the gun barrel.

Max turns, raising the gun with a nasty GROWL. The Conductor

casually snaps a baggage tag to the barrel, taking the gun.

The Conductor drops the weapon into a big mesh bag... along

with a dozen other guns he's collected. He exits. Max whirls

around facing the window, eyes filled with rage. Now what?

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

A gun barrel slowly protrudes between the seats in front of

Frank and Lana. Their eyes widen. Suddenly, a stream of water

hits Frank in the face! He sputters. A LITTLE KID named JEFF

scrambles into the aisle.

Lana turns to Frank... inspired. She leans toward Jeff.

ANGLE ON NED

Jeff bounces into the seat across from Ned.

ANGLE ON FRANK AND LANA

Lana peers over the seat at Ned. She smiles.

Frank gets up, moves down the aisle slowly, eyes on Ned. He

can't squeeze past the Old Woman, who is still struggling to

pull her huge trunk down aisle. So... he climbs right over

the top of it... oblivious to her.

Frank stares at Ned warily as he gets closer. Suddenly, Jeff

squirts a stream of water in Ned's eyes. Frank sees his

chance, rushing past Ned toward the vestibule.

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

Frank races through the vestibule behind Max's back. By the

time Max turns to see who's there... Frank is gone.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned wipes the water from his eyes, blinking. He grabs the

squirt gun away from Jeff, holding it up angrily.

A beat. Ned realizes he's right. Acting tough, he pulls the

plug and drains the water out of the gun, then tosses it

back to Jeff.

Without missing a beat, Jeff drops the empty water magazine

from the grip and jams a full one in... just like loading a

cartridge clip. He smirks, ready for action.

In the aisle next to them, the Old Woman now pulls her trunk

back toward the vestibule. Jeff points the squirt gun at

her. Suddenly, she whips around and SQUIRTS HIM in the face

with her own squirt gun! He sputters!

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

Max stares out the window, still seething. Behind him, the

Old Woman moves into the vestibule, inch by inch, trying to

drag her trunk into the first coach car.

Max turns, sees her struggling and goes to her aid.

He pushes the trunk into the first coach car, then very

politely holds the door open for her. She smiles sweetly at

him as she shuffles through.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Jeff is SINGING to Ned... to the tune of "The Old Gray Mare."

Ned turns queasy. The train lurches. He stiffens.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

The Old Woman has unpacked her huge trunk. She has hung up

clothes... set out a vase with flowers... hung up a big framed

painting... and turned on a floor lamp. She pulls out a set

of dumbbells, pumps them a couple times... and drops them on

the floor with a loud CLUNK!

Frank watches her from his seat across the aisle with a blank

expression... only his eyes moving.

The Conductor punches the Old Woman's ticket, then holds out

his hand, waiting. She pulls out a Smith & Wesson .44

Magnum... drops it in his bag. He waits. She pulls out an

Uzi.

EXT. THE TRACKS AHEAD - MOVING SHOT - DAY

Up ahead, we see a tunnel approaching.

OMIT

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned is looking very pale and queasy. Suddenly, Jeff jumps

up... presses his face against the window.

Ned can't take it anymore. He gets up, pale and sweating.

EXT. TRACKS AHEAD - MOVING SHOT - DAY

...racing toward the tunnel!

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana sees Ned stumble shakily into the aisle, moving toward

the vestibule.

The train enters the TUNNEL. Everything goes PITCH BLACK. A

few beats, then... LIGHT fills the car again as they emerge

from the tunnel. Lana looks. Ned is gone! She heads down the

aisle.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

The Conductor is still tagging weapons as the Old Woman comes

up with a Ruger Mini 14 machine gun, a Mauser C96 automatic

handgun, a sawed-off double-barreled .12 gauge shotgun...

and an old wooden slingshot.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana looks through the small window into the vestibule and

catches a glimpse of a gray suit. She ducks back, leaning

against the lavatory door.

INT. LAVATORY - THE MIRROR - DAY

Ned's dripping face rises up from the sink into view. He

splashes more water on, trying to overcome his queasiness.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana reaches into her purse, pulls out a gun. She looks

through the vestibule windows into the first coach car, her

eyes searching for Frank.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - LANA'S POV - DAY

Frank pokes his head out into the aisle, looking toward Lana.

He waves at her.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana ducks back, pressing herself against the lavatory door...

gripping the gun, tense.

INT. LAVATORY - DAY

Ned starts to open the door, then stops. He notices the violin

case. Opens it. A couple of bullets roll around inside. Then,

he sees the blender... puzzled.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana leans forward, looking through the vestibule windows,

watching desperately for Frank's signal.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

Frank looks out the window and sees...

EXT. THE RIVER - FRANK'S POV

It looms ahead.

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Lana sees Frank's frantic signal. She raises the gun, pulls

the hammer back and steps quickly into...

INT. THE VESTIBULE - DAY

Max hears someone enter. He stiffens...

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned steps out of the lavatory.

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

Lana FIRES!... blowing a hole right through Max and the window

behind him! She keeps firing! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM!

BLAM! More bullets than the gun could ever possibly hold!

INT. SECOND COACH CAR - DAY

Ned hears the GUNSHOTS and whirls around, looking into the

vestibule through the glass window, just as...

INT. VESTIBLE - DAY

...Max turns to face Lana, filled with bloody bullet holes.

Shocked to see it's Max, Lana empties the rest of the bullets

into him... BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! BLAM! Max is SLAMMED back into

the vestibule door by the impact!

She fires one last shot... BLAM!!!

EXT. TRAIN ON BRIDGE - DAY

Max flies out the door, executing a perfect "full gainer

with a triple twist and a half-tuck"... a flawless Olympic

style dive... ending with a dead body "belly flop" into the

water!

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

Frank sees Max hit the river and lets out a loud "WHOOP!"

The Old Woman shoots him a nasty look. He stifles himself.

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

Ned slides the vestibule door open... steps toward Lana. In

a daze, she raises the gun, points it at him, pulling the

trigger... CLICK... CLICK... CLICK. He takes the gun from

her gently.

INT. FIRST COACH CAR - DAY

Frank jumps up, rushing forward. He skids to a stop... seeing

Ned through the glass! Shocked, he ducks back.

INT. VESTIBULE - DAY

He takes her hand gently and kisses it...

... then, CLICK! He snaps a handcuff on her wrist!

SPINNING NEWSPAPER

whirls at us, snapping to a stop in someone's hands... upside

down. The hands turn it rightside up. The headline reads:

"COP ARRESTS WIFE FOR MURDER!... WILL DEFEND HER IN COURT!"

REVERSE ANGLE

The paper lowers, revealing Lola Cain with a gratified smile.

EXT. CITY JAIL - DAY

Ned and Laura move up the steps, surrounded by REPORTERS and

MEDIA PEOPLE. Questions are being fired from all sides.

Ned stops at the top of the stairs, turning to the Reporters.

Ned and Laura turn and enter the building.

INT. CITY JAIL BUILDING - ENTRY CORRIDOR - DAY

INT. CAVERNOUS ROOM - DAY

It's huge, dark and shadowy. More than a dozen heavily armed

POLICE OFFICERS stand guard all around the perimeter. In the

center is a cell constructed of iron bars, like an animal

cage. Ned and Laura enter. Arch steps over.

Arch hands him a hardbound book.

Ned flips it over.

ANGLE - THE BOOK - NED'S POV

On the back is a picture of HANNIBAL THE LECTURER... wearing

a baseball catcher's mask with barbed wire over the mouth.

BACK TO SCENE

Arch pulls the front cover of the book open, pointing.

Arch points toward the cage.

CLOSE ON LANA - CANTED ANGLE

There's a BIG MOTH on her mouth. The CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY.

A beat... she spits the moth off, irritated.

Three POLICE INVESTIGATORS sit opposite Lana at a long table.

Moths flutter everywhere.

Ned, Laura and Arch enter the cage as the Guard exits.

He turns to the Investigators.

Laura sits at the far end of the table and opens her notebook.

Lana pulls out her mirrored compact, starts to apply lipstick.

He nods toward a warning sign: a circle around a LIPSTICK

with a diagonal line thru it. She responds, cool, confident.

In the b.g., members of the SWAT Team desperately swat at

the fluttering moths.

Ned spins his chair around, plants one foot on it, leans on

his knee, looking hard at Lana.

Ned raises his hand, sits down, leans close, changing his

tone.

Ned stands, paces, agitated... plants his foot on the chair

again. He leans toward her... getting tough again.

Ned jumps in, motioning with his hands for this to stop.

He slams his briefcase shut and turns to Lana, sincere.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - BACKYARD - DAY

The CAMERA MOVES IN to a wire mesh cage at the very back of

the yard. A small sign on it says: NED JUNIOR. The door is

open. The cage is... empty!

EXT. AMUSEMENT PARK - DAY

Lola rides the roller coaster with Lana's pet Skunk. She

LAUGHS maniacally as they plunge down a steep grade!

The Skunk stands stiffly on her lap, his paws planted on the

guard rail, eyes bulging out!... his fur standing straight

up!

INT. NED'S HOUSE - DAY

Ned hesitates at the front door. It's open a crack. He moves

inside cautiously. There is a strange BUBBLING SOUND coming

from the kitchen. He moves toward it... apprehensive.

He enters the kitchen and SEES... a huge bubbling pot on the

stove, foam spilling over from under the lid! His mind reels!

He charges out the back door.

EXT. BACK OF HOUSE - DAY

Ned bursts out the back door... CAMERA TRACKING with his

feet as he dashes across the huge back yard... MUSIC POUNDING!

He SEES the EMPTY animal cage! The door is open. A fuzzy

blanket hangs halfway out.

Shocked, Ned spins around... running back toward the house...

CAMERA TRACKING HIS FEET, struggling to keep up. The CAMERA

SLAMS into a tree!... CRACKING the LENS!

INT. NED'S HOUSE - THE KITCHEN - DAY

Ned bursts in... SEES the bubbling pot!... a huge butcher

knife on the counter!... and LOLA, arms outstretched to greet

him.

She whips the cover off the bubbling pot.

She lifts up pasta with a spaghetti spoon... tossing a sprig

of basil into the pot from the basil-leaf crown she wears.

He grabs Lola's arm and drags her toward the front door.

She steps outside... turns to him.

He SLAMS the door in her face... hesitates a beat, curious...

then pulls the door open. Lola's still there.

Ned SLAMS the door again.

EXT. COURTHOUSE STEPS - DAY

It's a media circus! Vendors sell "TRIAL BALLOON" balloons.

PRESS PHOTOGRAPHERS cluster around a squad of CHEERLEADERS

wearing sweaters emblazoned with "FREE LANA OR BUST!" across

their chests.

They perform a rousing CHEER in front of a sign on the

building that reads... "LE COURTHOUSE".

A BBC COMMENTATOR speaks to a TV camera.

Ned and Laura push their way through the crush of REPORTERS.

INT. COURTROOM - DAY

Spectators pour through several turnstiles, shoving in their

tokens. TV cameras have been set up to broadcast the trial.

A UNIFORMED THEATER USHER escorts JURY MEMBERS in, checks

their tickets, hands them programs and directs them to their

seats.

Ned and Laura sit at the defense table, next to Lana... who

is oblivious to everything, deeply engrossed in a pocket

video game. Ned looks toward the gallery and does a disturbed

take.

It's Lola!... sitting in the back row wearing a tailored

suit, large brimmed hat with dark veil... and a SKUNK SKIN

STOLE draped around her shoulders!

Dizzy sits next to her, playing softly on a MUTED SAX.

ANGLE - BROADCAST BOOTH

A SPORTSCASTER delivers play-by-play of the action.

ANGLE - COURTROOM

Flashing "APPLAUSE" signs and flashing "ALL RISE" audience

prompters. Everyone gives the Judge a standing ovation.

ANGLE - BROADCAST BOOTH

ANGLE - COURTROOM

The Bailiff flips a coin, motions to the PROSECUTOR.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

The PROSECUTOR delivers her impassioned opening statement.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Laura is on the stand. Ned hands her a sheet of paper.

Ned snatches it back, pacing, folding it into a paper

airplane.

Ned sails the paper plane toward the COURT CLERK, who is at

an evidence table already piled high with tagged guns,

appliances, knickknacks, auto parts and other junk.

The plane sails toward an open window. The Clerk grabs it...

going OUT the window with the plane!

EXT. COURTHOUSE LAWN - DAY

The Cheerleaders lead the SPECTATORS in an exuberant CHEER.

In the b.g., the Court Clerk plummets to the ground, then

staggers to his feet, and stumbles... dazed... back toward

the courthouse.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

One of the JURORS watches a "DICK VAN DYKE" re-run on a small

portable TV monitors, oblivious to the testimony. In the

b.g., the battered Clerk stumbles back in with the paper

plane. The Conductor is on the stand. Ned holds up a BLENDER.

The Bailiff reaches out, Ned waves him off... instead, tossing

the blender over several heads to the Court Clerk... who

runs to catch it, CRASHING into the wall. The blender falls,

SHATTERS.

ANGLE - BROADCAST BOOTH

On the RE-PLAY SCREEN we see the action repeated in SLOW

MOTION as the Sportscaster draws lines, circles, x's and

squiggles.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

At the defense table, Laura glances over at Lana, who is

casually browsing through a copy of GALS & GUNS magazine.

Laura reacts, then, trying to be as diplomatic as possible...

They both look toward the witness stand. Ned is shaken.

ANGLE - WITNESS STAND - MOMENTS LATER

Jeff, the little boy from the train is on the witness stand.

The Prosecutor stands by, listening as...

The JURORS turn pale and reach for the air sickness bags in

front of them. The Courtroom erupts. The Judge pounds his

gavel LOUDLY.

But NO ONE hears this in all the confusion. The Judge, also

looking ill now, bangs his gavel again.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY

The Judge, Jury, Attorneys and Spectators are all playing on

the swings, teeter-totters, monkey bars... having a blast!

Ned and the Prosecutor play "dodge-ball." Laura cheers Ned

on. The Prosecutor rockets the ball at Ned... and just misses!

The BAILIFF steps into CLOSE UP, blowing a whistle loudly!

INT. BROADCAST BOOTH - LATER

Marching band MUSIC fades off-screen.

INT. COURTROOM - SAME TIME

Mrs. Shady is on the stand. Ned paces.

She reaches down into her huge purse, pulling out a photo

album. She opens it, showing Ned.

ANGLE - THE JURY

They rise slowly out of their seats, craning their necks,

trying to see the photos.

BACK TO SCENE

Ned is now seated next to Mrs. Shady in the witness box,

looking at the photo album with her. Judge Skanky peers over

the side of the bench.

ANGLE - THE SPECTATORS

are now on their feet, all straining to catch a glimpse of

the photos in the album.

BACK TO SCENE

She snatches the photo out of the album.

ANGLE - BROADCAST BOOTH

The Sportscaster is pushing his face against the broadcast

booth glass, trying to see what everyone's looking at.

BACK TO SCENE

The Court Clerk, Bailiff and Court Recorder have all moved

around behind the witness stand, peering over Mrs. Shady's

shoulder at the photos.

Mrs. Shady goes berserk... leaping from the witness stand,

pointing several different fingers at Judge Skanky.

The Bailiff attempts to restrain her, but she breaks free...

scurrying around the courtroom, pointing fingers at everyone!

CHAOS prevails!

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

The Irritable Man from the train is on the stand... Max's

huge cigar stuck in his ear! The hair around his ear is

scorched.

The Man strains to see the cigar out of the corner of his

eye. Impatient, Ned finally holds up a small pocket mirror.

The Bailiff picks up the Irritable Man and dumps him on the

evidence table, where he is tagged by the Court Clerk.

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

Lana is on the stand. The Bailiff swears her in.

Ned approaches.

Ned and EVERY MALE in the courtroom winces at this, doubling

over in imagined agony. Lana pauses, then continues...

She pauses to count off on her fingers, then...

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

The COURTROOM ARTIST has been sketching intensely throughout

the trial. We finally see... he's been sketching a BOWL OF

FRUIT on the Court Recorder's desk. Ned picks up some fruit

from the bowl and approaches the defense table.

Ned shoves the BANANA and two PLUMS into a demonstration

blender on the defense table. He hits the puree button and

the blender WHIRRS loudly!

All MALES in the courtroom react with pained expressions,

cringing and doubling-over. Ned turns the blender off.

INT. PRESS ROOM - LATER

A REPORTER opens the door marked PRESS ROOM. Inside, a DOZEN

REPORTERS press their pants on a dozen ironing boards.

The Reporters scramble for the door, pulling their pants on!

INT. COURTROOM - LATER

The CAMERA FOLLOWS a folded piece of paper as the Jurors

pass it along to the FOREMAN... who hands it to the Bailiff...

who hands it to the Judge. He unfolds it, reads it... then

winks flirtatiously at the FEMALE JUROR who wrote it. She

blushes.

A BOISTEROUS CLAMOR in the court. The electronic signs FLASH

"NOT GUILTY!"... "NOT GUILTY!"... "NOT GUILTY!"

The Jury and Spectators start to rise. The Judge hesitates,

gavel poised, shooting them a warning look.

Everyone FREEZES halfway out of their seats... waiting.

He smacks his gavel. Everyone scatters for the doors, but

Judge Skanky beats them out of the room.

Lana turns cool, dropping her courtroom facade. She plucks

off her earrings, unbuttons the neck of her dress, reaches

in and magically pulls out her bra, tossing it away.

TWO LEGAL AIDES sneak up behind Ned and dump a big plastic

barrel of Gatorade cans over his head!

They turn to SEE: Spectators and Jurors browse through the

clutter of junk in front of the Court Clerk on the evidence

table. An IRRITABLE WOMAN claims the Irritable Man, grabbing

the cigar from his ear and throwing it down.

She pulls him away as Lana steps up, with a cigarette dangling

from her lips. Lana picks up her gun and spins the cylinder.

It's loaded. The battered Court Clerk limps over, smiling.

Laura sees this... turns to Ned with a look of shock.

Ned looks off toward Lana with admiration.

As Lana wades into the crowd of REPORTERS, some still without

pants, the CAMERA MOVES TO Lola, who is watching Lana from

the back of the courtroom.

Lola pulls a small cord hanging from the side of her hat...

opening her veil like window drapes. She's not happy.

INT. FRANK'S GARAGE - DAY

Frank lays on a mechanic's "creeper", working under a car.

Lana steps between his feet. He hears her and rolls out, his

crotch sliding to a stop against her legs. He looks up,

covered with black grease.

He gets to his feet, cocky.

She walks toward him, her voice cold, accusing. He backs up.

Lana pulls the gun from her purse, pointing it at him.

He brashly turns his back to her, putting some tools away.

She sees a huge electric powered SCREWDRIVER on the workbench

next to her, smiling diabolically. She lowers the gun.

He laughs arrogantly... starts to unbutton his shirt.

EXT. THE GARAGE WINDOW - DAY

We see Lana's SILHOUETTE on the window as she raises the big

power screwdriver and turns it on. WHIRR-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R-R!

The CAMERA WHIPS AROUND and PUSHES IN TO...

LOLA

watching the murder from her car. There is a... FLASH! Then

another! And another! We are...

INT. THE GARAGE - LATER

A POLICE PHOTOGRAPHER takes FLASH pictures of the crime scene.

The CORONER, COPS, FORENSIC MEN... all do their thing. Ned

and Arch amble in, looking around. Arch is eating Nachos.

Throughout this scene, in the b.g., the milling COPS and

INVESTIGATORS slip on all the blood, as if on slick ice, and

fall out of frame, their arms and legs flailing helplessly!

One of the Coroner's INVESTIGATORS approaches Arch and Ned.

He holds up a rolled piece of paper with a pair of tweezers.

Ned takes it, trying to unroll it.

Ned hands it off to Arch, who casually unrolls it. The

Investigator slips, arms waving, and falls out of frame.

Arch gives Ned a very strange look. Ned feels his stare.

In the b.g., various COPS pair up to have their pictures

taken by the Police Crime Scene Photographer... posing,

grinning.

THE CAMERA MOVES

behind Ned on his line, revealing Frank... pinned to the

wall by the power screwdriver stuck in his back! It's still

running... vibrating with a GRINDING HUM.

Ned reaches out and turns the screwdriver OFF.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - DAY

Ned enters, pausing. He hears VOICES. He goes to the living

room. Lana and Lola turn to see him in the doorway. He is

shocked. Lana looks shaken. But Lola is cool... in control.

He turns to Lola.

She turns to Lana with a cold and contemptuous glare.

Lola exits. As soon as the door closes, Lana whirls around

in a fury!... SMASHING a lamp! She SHRIEKS furiously!

He puts his arms around her, comforting.

He kisses her and exits. Lana turns to look up toward the

landing, a vengefully insane smile clouding her face.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - DUSK

A demanding KNOCK at the door. Lola hesitates at the door.

The door CRASHES OPEN! Ned is silhouetted in the doorway. He

looks really pissed! Lola turns and runs. Ned sprints after

her, leaping through the air... bringing her down with a

tackle!

Her foot shoots out, smashing him right in the face... WHAM!

She jumps up and scrambles away. Ned pursues her. She grabs

a bottle of scotch from the counter, spins around.

She throws the bottle! He ducks and it shatters on the wall!

She whirls on one foot, nailing him in the head with a FLYING

SPIN KICK! He stumbles back, dazed. She grabs an ice pick.

Lola charges! Ned rolls onto his back, jamming both feet

into her stomach, heaving her up over him... thru the air!

She SLAMS into the wall!... then slowly turns... still cool

and collected. She raises a cigarette... lights it with the

ice pick "lighter."

He shoves her against the wall... the cigarette flying away.

He grabs her by the shoulders, shaking her.

She clams up. He slaps her.

He raises his hand to slap her hard.

She SLAPS him!

She continues to slap him... back and forth... repeating her

answers... "She's your wife"... "She's my sister!"... "Your

wife!"... "My sister!"... "Wife!"... "Sister!"

He reaches a boiling point, raising two fingers, preparing

to give her the Three Stooges "two-fingered eye poke." She

blocks it with her hand and shoves him away. Then, she

executes a perfect Three Stooges "wiggly-hand head slap",

telling him...

Ned is stunned. MUSIC THUNDERS dramatically! Lana clicks the

stereo off. The MUSIC STOPS.

She comes toward him... feeling in control once more.

INT. NED'S CAR - NIGHT

Ned wanders to his car, climbs in, sits there... stunned.

Ned rubs his temples, shuts his eyes.

INT. LOLA'S HOUSE - NIGHT

"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida" plays on the stereo. Lola sits on the

floor by an end table, eyes dazed, staring blankly. A lamp

with a "clapper" switch sits on the table.

As the CAMERA MOVES IN SLOWLY to her, she absently "claps"

the light off... then on... then off... then on... then off...

INT. NED'S HOUSE - NIGHT

CLOSE ON female hands using a keyhole saw to cut through a

railing on the second floor landing above the foyer.

Outside... the SOUND of a car... headlights! The sawing stops.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Ned pulls up. The house is dark and ominous. So is the MUSIC.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The front door is open a crack. He cautiously pushes it and

the door CR-E-A-K-S open very slowly. The door STOPS, but

the LOUD CREAKING continues. Ned touches it lightly with the

tip of his finger. The CREAKING STOPS.

Ned moves up the stairs. The CAMERA BOOMS UP with him, HOLDING

ON an ECU of the partially severed railing.

INT. BATHROOM - NIGHT

Ned enters. Hot water gushes from the faucet into a clawfoot

bathtub. He turns the water off, looking around, puzzled.

Loosens his tie, rubs his head. A splitting headache. Opens

the medicine cabinet and... SCREECH! YEOW! CRASH! A CAT leaps

out!... darts away. There's a NOISE from downstairs.

INT. THE KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Someone is POUNDING on the door. Ned enters and opens it.

It's Laura.

She drags a chair in behind her, sits at the kitchen table.

Ned puts a kettle on the burner, turns it on. He starts

searching through the cupboard for teabags.

Ned freezes, staring out the window, unable to face her.

Ned turns to her when he hears Lola's name... looking baffled

by this convoluted piece of logic.

He turns back to the cupboard, picking up a container.

He brings the Ovaltine container to the table.

A huge ceramic cookie jar sits on the table in front of them.

Laura SMASHES it with her fist, breaking it open! Cookies

spill out... and the insurance policy.

He sits down... starts eating Oreos... twisting them apart.

She unrolls a complex genealogical chart... walks him thru

it.

Laura pauses dramatically, then announces.

INT. HOUSE - UPSTAIRS LANDING - NIGHT

The keyhole saw cuts through the railing. The CAMERA REVEALS

Lana, eyes filled with Machiavellian rage.

She enters the bathroom, lays the saw blade down. Suddenly...

a PAIR OF HANDS plunge into frame, grabbing her by the throat!

We GO WITH HER as she is pushed back into the tub, the hands

forcing her head under water. Lana grabs a diving mask, clamps

it over her face. One of the attacking hands rips it away!

Lana grabs a snorkel, sticking it in her mouth. The hand

pulls it from her, tossing it aside.

The hand shoves a little RUBBER DUCKIE into Lana's mouth!

Lana struggles, finally going limp. Her open eyes stare up

from beneath the water. The last few bubbles rise to the

surface.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

The tea kettle WHISTLES! Laura pulls it off the burner. The

whistling subsides... replaced by the distant SOUND of water

running upstairs. Ned cocks his head, listening.

Ned exits. Laura opens the Ovaltine container. It's empty. A

DARK SHADOW moves past the window behind Laura. Suspense

MUSIC. Laura opens the cupboard. PIGEONS explode out, wings

beating furiously! She catches her breath, looks in the

cupboard. The cans and boxes are covered with pigeon shit.

She shoves them aside, looking for the Ovaltine.

INT. FOYER - SAME TIME

Ned looks up toward the light from the bathroom. Water seeps

over the edge of the landing and down the steps. As he moves

up the steps, the SOUND of MUSIC... the familiar strains of

"In-A-Gadda-Da-Vida"... grows louder and LOUDER.

INT. BATHROOM - SAME TIME

It's filled with steam. He waves the steam away... STARTLED

to see Lana's lifeless body beneath the water, the rubber

duckie jammed into her mouth. The tub overflows on the floor.

He turns the faucet off. The water stops... and so does the

MUSIC. Puzzled, he turns the faucet on. The MUSIC STARTS.

Turns it off. The MUSIC STOPS.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

As Laura turns away to enter the pantry... her Husband's

twisted face suddenly appears in the kitchen window!

INT. BEDROOM - SAME TIME

Ned enters. The MUSIC is coming from the closet. Ned yanks

the door open! A flock of PIGEONS bursts out!... revealing a

GUEST MUSICIAN playing an instrument.

Ned shuts the door, eyes shifting. Lola must be near.

INT. PANTRY OFF KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura searches the large walk-in pantry for tea bags. She

hears a LOUD CRASH of BREAKING GLASS in the kitchen... stops

and listens... then casually shrugs it off.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura's Husband stands in the kitchen. The back door is

open... the window shattered. He SEES... the kitchen towels

hanging sloppily on the rack! The disorganized clutter of

cans and boxes in the cupboard! WE PUSH IN to his wildly

insane eyes!

INT. UPSTAIRS LANDING - SAME TIME

As Ned enters the upstairs landing, we hear VOICES in his

mind.

The repetitive ECHO gets to him. He smacks his head with the

palm of his hand. The skipping stops... followed by...

IN THE DARKNESS

A woman's HAND unrolls a leather kit... the "U-Pick an Ice

Pick Porta-Pik-Pak!"... with seven ice picks in separate

slots, each labeled with a day of the week.

The hand selects "Wednesday's" ice pick, pulls it out. Then...

BONG... BONG... BONG... BONG...!

CANTED ANGLE ON - A GRANDFATHER CLOCK

It CHIMES loudly. It's twelve midnight!

THE HAND

returns the ice pick to its slot, selects the one for

Thursday.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura comes out of the pantry. She stops... gasps! Everything

in the cupboard is neatly stacked! All the towels are

straight!

She whirls around... coming face to face with her Husband!

He smiles demonically, holding up the Ninja Turtle float

ring.

INT. UPSTAIRS LANDING - SAME TIME

Ned nears the bathroom door and suddenly... A PIERCING SCREAM!

Lola charges, an ice pick raised over her head! She knocks

him backward, into the bathroom, slashing at him. But he

deflects the attack, grabbing at her arms.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura backs away from her Husband. He holds her wedding ring.

INT. UPSTAIRS LANDING - SAME TIME

As Ned and Lola continue their violent struggle... Lola grabs

toiletries to aid in her attack. She squirts Ned with SHAVING

CREAM... squeezes TOOTHPASTE in his hair... and throws BATH

POWDER in his face!

Ned is blinded. Gaining the advantage, Lola shoves him back,

slamming his head into the wall. He's dazed, helpless.

Lola raises the ice pick, moving forward to strike! But Ned

grabs a HAIR BLOWER and swings it around, pointing it at her

like a gun! She freezes... then smiles contemptuously.

She LAUGHS arrogantly. Ned clicks on the hair blower to HIGH,

a blast of HOT AIR hitting Lola's face, puffing her cheeks

out, pushing her back, hair flying wildly!

Her backside hits the railing where Lana has cut it... the

wood splintering!

Lola tumbles over backward, SCREAMING! She hangs suspended

in mid-air for a moment, like a cartoon character, arms

flailing. Then... WHOOM!... she FALLS to the marble floor

below, hitting with a LOUD THUD!

INT. THE KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura's Husband hears Lola fall, turning. Laura grabs the

iron skillet and CLOBBERS him with it! BONG! He goes down.

INT. UPSTAIRS LANDING - SAME TIME

Ned stares at the hair blower in his hand. Filled with disgust

and revulsion, he throws the "weapon" down.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Laura pulls TWO REVOLVERS from her purse... spinning them

like John Wayne... expertly tossing one over her back,

catching it in front! She heads for the foyer.

INT. FOYER - A MOMENT LATER - ON LOLA'S BODY

Laura pauses, looks down at Lola's body... notices something.

She pushes Lola's skirt a bit higher with the toe of her

shoe.

She looks up... sees a light emanating from the bathroom.

ON THE LANDING

Laura moves through the shadows... stops outside the bathroom,

pressing her back against the wall, guns up and ready.

She swivels into the doorway... taking a shooter's stance...

guns pointed! She sees... LANA... submerged in the tub, face

up, the rubber duckie in her mouth.

Laura steps back and turns... right into a THING covered in

white! Startled, she SHRIEKS! Ned drops the white towel he's

using to wipe off all of the shaving cream and toothpaste.

Relieved to see it's Ned, she throws her arms around him!

He pulls out his police badge, looks at it.

He tosses it away, over the railing.

INT. FOYER - ECU LOLA - SAME TIME

The badge drops from above, landing on the floor right in

front of Lola's lifeless face. A beat. Her eyes pop open!

INT. BATHROOM - ECU ON BATH WATER - SAME TIME

Suddenly, the rubber duckie pops to the surface.

ON THE LANDING

Laura hugs Ned again, arms locked around his neck, still

gripping a gun in each hand.

INT. FOYER

Lola sits bolt upright, bloody but still bouncy.

INT. BATHROOM

Lana suddenly SITS UP in the tub, inhaling a huge GASP of

air, her eyes wild!

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Laura's Husband's eyes POP OPEN! He SITS UP suddenly...

smashing his head into the sharp corner of the kitchen table!

He topples back slowly... really dead! Finally.

INT. THE STAIRCASE

Lola's feet move steadily up each stair... her bloody hand

grasping the ice pick.

INT. BATHROOM FLOOR - LOW ANGLE

Lana's feet step out of the tub, water dripping all around.

She picks up the pointed saw from the floor.

ON THE LANDING

Ned and Laura still embrace, her forearms crisscrossed behind

his neck. It's been a long embrace.

Suddenly, Lana and Lola both appear, SCREAMING like banshees!

Lana charges from the bathroom, grasping the sharp saw blade!

Lola races at them from the stairway... with the ice pick!

Without missing a beat, Laura raises the barrels of both

guns and FIRES at them simultaneously... right next to Ned's

ears.

The impact of one bullet knocks Lana all the way back through

the bathroom, CRASHING spectacularly out the window! The

other bullet sends Lola flipping down the staircase!

Ned looks stunned, his eyes crossed... the thundering gunshots

still ringing in his ears. Laura proudly blows the gunsmoke

away from the end of each barrel.

He strains to make out what she's saying, ears still ringing.

A beat. Laura opens her mouth to correct him, then decides

against it. She smiles... speaking softly, almost shyly.

He hears THIS... smiles at her.

They embrace.

EXT. NED'S HOUSE - WIDE SHOT - NEAR DAWN

We MOVE IN SLOWLY toward the house.

INT. NED'S HOUSE - THE BEDROOM - SAME TIME

Ned and Laura are in bed, wrapped in each other's arms.

NEW ANGLE - NED AND LAURA

Revealing that it's NOT "voice over narration." Ned is

actually rattling on aloud again.

He smiles at her. They kiss. Romantic SAXAPHONE MUSIC begins

to play... only this time, it's "Laura's Theme."

The CAMERA PULLS BACK SLOWLY... revealing Dizzy laying on

the bed beside them... playing the sax.

After a beat, Laura turns to Dizzy.

Ned casually slips him a twenty dollar bill. Dizzy slips off

the bed and out the door. Laura turns to Ned.

Her hand reaches slowly over the edge of the bed, toward the

floor. Suddenly... she comes up with a CONCERTINA, a small

accordian... and begins to play it!

Ned lays there listening for a few moments, a stunned look

frozen on his face. Then... he reaches under the pillow and

pulls out a HARMONICA and joins in.

The CAMERA BOOMS UP to a HIGH ANGLE SHOT... as they play

MEDLEY of all the MUSIC heard in the film.

FADE TO BLACK

ROLL END CREDITS

After the final credit, WE HEAR:

