race I am forced to run."

FADE IN:

EXT. LIQUOR STORE - DAY

A convenience store in a Texas Suburb. No other businesses

surround it.

CLOSE-UP: A light switch is flipped on.

The sign on top of the store lights up. It reads: BENNY'S

WORLD OF LIQUOR.

TITLE CARD:

A Texas Ranger patrol car pulls into the parking lot and

a real live Texas Ranger, EARL MCGRAW, steps out. McGraw is

in full ranger uniform - button shirt, cowboy hat, boots,

mirrored shades, tin star and a colt revolver on his hip.

It's about an hour and a half before sundown and McGraw is

off duty for the day.

The only other car in the parking lot is a 1975 Plymouth

INT. BENNY'S WORLD OF LIQUOR - DAY

A young Hawaiian Shirt wearing man named PETE sits on a

stool behind the counter.

A few CLOSE-UP:STOMERS fiddle about.

A MAN wearing a black suit, black tie, and wire rim

glasses holds hands with a PRETTY BLONDE GIRL in cutoffs and

bare feet. They look through magazines.

Another black suit wearing MAN holds hands with a RED-HEADED

GIRL in a prep school uniform. They look through the

beer cooler in the back of the store. Both girls are around

seventeen.

MCGRAW enters the store.

McGraw walks over to the beer cooler, as if done ritually

every night (it is), takes out a beer, pops it open and

joins Pete by the front counter.

Pete doesn't say anything.

McGraw drops his last drip of beer, crushes the can and

exits in the bathroom.

The black suited man by the beer cooler turns around and,

with the prep school girl in tow, walks rapidly toward Pete.

We see that the girl is crying.

The two men in black suits are the notorious Abilene

bank robbers, SETH and RICHARD GECKO, "The Gecko Brothers."

And the other customers are all being held hostage. Seth

is the one with the prep girl. Richard is the one with

the blonde.

Everybody speaks low and fast.

Richard, holding tightly the hand of the terrified girl,

leans next to Seth's ear and whispers something. Seth looks

at Pete.

Richard whispers something else in Seth's ear.

Pete controls himself.

Richard speaks for the first time in a low calm voice to

Seth.

The toilet FLUSHES.

Everybody goes back to what they were doing.

McGraw steps back out of the back. He appears to be unaware

of the situation.

Out of nowhere Richard WHIPS out his forty-five automatic

and SHOOTS McGraw in the head.

McGraw goes down screaming.

Richard stands over him and SHOOTS him twice more.

Seth charges forward.

Richard SHOOTS Pete and Pete falls down behind the counter.

Seth grabs Richard and throws him up against the wall.

Richard mouths the words, "Help Us."

While Pete lies on the floor behind the counter bleeding

from his bullet wound, he opens his floor safe and pulls

out a gun from it.

Seth releases his brother.

Richard walks away from Seth and crosses the counter...

...when Pete SPRINGS up, gun in hand, and SHOOTS Richard in

the hand.

Richard FALLS to his knees, howling.

Both Pete and Seth SPRAY the store with gunfire.

Seth DIVES down an aisle. He reloads.

Pete DUCKS behind the counter. He reloads.

Richard has crawled to safety behind an aisle.

The two girls have run out screaming.

The two brothers start FIRING toward the counter.

They HIT the bottles of alcohol on the shelf behind Pete.

Pete is crouched on the ground as glass, debris and alcohol

RAIN down on him.

Seth grabs a roll of paper towels from off a shelf.

Richard keeps FIRING.

Seth douses the paper towels with lighter fluid, sets it on

fire with his Zippo, then tosses it.

The flaming roll of paper towels FLIES through the air.

The fireball lands behind the counter.

The entire counter area immediately BURSTS INTO FLAMES. Pete

screams from behind the counter.

Seth smiles to himself and stands.

Richard shakes his head in amusement and stands.

Pete runs out from behind the counter, ENGULFED IN FLAMES

still holding his weapon and FIRING.

Seth and Richard hit the ground FIRING their .45's.

Pete, the human torch, FALLS like a tree into the Hostess

Pastry display.

Seth and Richard rise from the rubble.

EXT. BENNY'S WORLD OF LIQUOR - DAY

They exit the store squabbling. The store is bursting into

flames.

Both Seth and Richard stand on opposite sides of the car.

They both climb in the car, Seth behind the wheel. Seth

starts it op. The souped up engine ROARS to life. We can

hear Seth mumbling under the motor.

CLOSE-UP: SETH'S FOOT PUNCHES GAS.

The Plymouth tears out of the parking lot backwards, hits

the street, and speeds off down the road.

We CRANE UP HIGH to see the car leaving a trail of dust

behind it, as the store burns out of control.

OPENING CREDIT SEQUENCE.

Raunchy, honky-tonk MUSIC fills the theater.

EXT. TEXAS PANHANDLE - DAY

The Plymouth tears ass across Texas plains. As TITLES PLAY

OVER, we see Seth and Richard enjoying their getaway/road

trip. Seth behind the wheel, pops open a bottle of

prescription pills, empties out four of the red capsules in

his hand, pops them in his mouth, and washes it back with a

slug of Jack Daniel's from a pint bottle.

Richard looks at Seth through the hole in his hand. Like a

boxer, Richard wraps his wounded hand with gaffer's tape.

The camera leaves the boys, as they woosh down the street,

and goes along the length of the car to the trunk. It hangs

on the trunk. Then we see through the trunk, like Superman:

AN OLDER WOMAN tied up and helpless in the trunk.

The rest of the titles play over black as the song

continues.

CREDIT SEQUENCE ENDS

EXT. EMMA AND PETE'S GRAVY TRAIN - DAY

Emma and Pete's Gravy Train is a truck stop off of Highway

290.

SUBTITLE APPEARS AT THE BOTTOM OF THE SCREEN':

INT. EMMA AND PETE'S GRAVY TRAIN - DAY

Emma and Pete's PATRONS are made up of regulars, truckers,

cowboys and road-weary travelers. The CAMERA DOLLIES through

the maze of tables, patrons, and waitresses.

It stops when it gets to a table occupied by the FULLER

FAMILY. The Fullers definitely fall into the road-weary

category. The members of the unit consist of the father,

JACOB, age 44, an ex-preacher, a good man with rough edges,

and his two children, KATE, age 19, is a young beauty who

possesses what can only be described as an apple pie

sensuality. She is dressed like a nice Christian girl,

complete with crucifix. SCOTT, age 16, is a Jacob's

Vietnamese adopted son. Scott is a likable, long-haired kid

who always wears a T-shirt with the name of the heavy metal

garage band he plays guitar for, "Precinct 13." The three

of them are wolfing down a late lunch.

Scott and Kate speak together, obviously repeating something

that Jacob has said about three hundred times.

Scott and Kate continue the impersonation.

Jacob gives Scott a look that says, "You aren't touching my

new motor home."

Scott gets up from the table and walks out back to the

restroom.

Jacob and Kate are left alone. There's an awkward moment of

silence before...

CLOSE UP: COUNTER BELL. A hand slams down on it. RING.

INT. LOBBY - DEW DROP INN - DAY

Seth stands at the front desk of the Dew Drop Inn. A

standard issue Texas motel. Richard sits outside in the car.

Nobody responds to the bell. Seth BANGS it impatiently five

times.

An OLD-TIMER walks through a curtain behind the counter.

He's eating a BBQ rib.

EXT. COURTYARD - DEW DROP INN - DAY

Richard sits in the car listening to Merle Haggard on the

radio. He watches from his perspective, Seth taking the

walking outside and getting in the car. Seth starts it up,

and drives them to their room.

Their car drives up to room #9, but they park backing up the

trunk close to the door.

The two brothers get out of the car.

Richie opens the door.

Seth goes to the trunk, looks around the court yard. It's

empty.

CLOSE UP: KEY going into the trunk lock, turning.

TRUNK POV: Seth looking into the camera.

SETH'S POV: A WOMAN in her late forties is lying scrunched

She is the HOSTAGE BANK TELLER from Abilene. She's stiff,

scared and looks an absolute mess.

The two brothers, quick as lightening, yank the woman out of

the trunk and whisk her into the motel room. SETH closes the

trunk, looks around for any Johnny eye-witnesses, doesn't

see any, slams the door.

INT. SETH AND RICHARD'S ROOM - DAY

Seth turns from the door, sees the hostage woman standing.

She sits down in the chair.

She shuts up.

Richard slowly takes off his jacket. He winces from his

wound.

He helps him get his jacket off.

Richie goes over to the bed and lies down on it. Seth takes

the pillow and stacks them for Richie to prop his back up

against.

He heads for the door.

EXT. COURTYARD - MOTEL - DAY

Seth goes into the car, takes out a big suitcase. He scans

the perimeter with his eyes, goes back inside.

INT. MOTEL ROOM #9 - DAY

Seth comes back in, lays the suitcase on the bed. Richie has

the TV remote control in his hand and he's flipping

stations. Seth looks at his watch.

Richie shrugs and turns back to TV, Seth turns to the

hostage, grabs a chair and slides it up in front of her.

He shakes her hand.

Seth takes the .45, places the barrel next to the woman's

cheek. She squirms and shuts her eyes. He pulls back the

hammer.

She nods her head yes.

He takes the gun away and replaces the hammer.

She does.

She nods her head yes.

Seth rises.

He exits.

Richard looks to the TV, then looks to Gloria sitting

across the room in the chair.

You can tell she doesn't want to.

He pats the empty space next to him.

She gets out of her chair, walks across the bed, and sits

next to him.

EXT. PHONE BOOTH - DAY

A phone booth outside of a gas station. Seth is in the

middle of a conversation with the party on the other end.

Seth hangs up the phone, lights up a cigarette with his

Zippo lighter and exits frame. After Seth exits, leaving

the frame empty, a subtitle appears:

INT. SETH AND RICHARD'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Richard lies on the bed by himself, propped up by pillows,

watching TV, taking on hits from a water bong in the

shape of a wizard.

ON TV

A local newscaster named KELLY HOUGE is reporting a story

about the brothers.

MUG SHOT OF SETH

BACK TO KELLY

MUG SHOT OF RICHARD GECKO

BACK TO KELLY

PHOTO OF WOMAN SMILING

MAP OF AMERICA

A red line travels from Wichita to Oklahoma.

The red line enters Texas and the camera moves into Texas.

WE ZOOM in on a red-circled Abilene.

We hear GUNFIRE and SCREAMS.

EXT. THE CRIMINAL COURT BUILDING - DAY

Kelly Houge walks down the courthouse steps of the criminal

courts building of Abilene. She talks to the camera. Cops,

lawyers and citizens bustle in the background.

PHOTO: OFFICER SHERMAN GOODELL in full police uniform.

EXT. COURTHOUSE - DAY

Kelly Houge standing on the court house steps talking into

the camera.

PHOTO: EARL MCGRAW in uniform.

PHOTO: PETE in a Hawaiian shirt holding up a big fish.

VIDEO FOOTAGE: Of Benny's World of Liquor burning down.

VIDEO GRAPHIC: Picture of The Gecko Brothers with a tally underneath:

BACK TO KELLY

PHOTO: GLORIA HILL

KELLY TO CAMERA

VIDEO INTERVIEW

Kelly Houge interviewing STANLEY CHASE of the FBI.

RICHARD SMILES.

He changes a channel on the television. We see a Casper the

Friendly Ghost cartoon on the screen.

A big burly COP turns around.

The cop heads for the hills. Casper cries.

Seth enters the room carrying a six pack of beer and two

take-out bags of Big Kahuna burgers.

Seth dumps the burgers on the bed. Both men pop open beers

and Richard goes to town on a hamburger. Seth flips off

the TV

Seth sits down and takes a hit off his beer.

Seth stops talking and looks around.

Seth's out of his chair.

He goes to the door of the adjoining room.

Seth stops and looks at his brother. He knows what he means.

He can't say anything, only point at his younger sibling.

Then he BURSTS open the door.

The dead, naked body of Gloria Hill lies on the bed. It's

obvious Richard raped her and killed her.

Seth covers his eyes with his hands. He slowly enters the

room with the dead body.

Richard rises from the bed.

Seth slowly turns to his brother, then walks toward him.

Richard backs up.

Seth grabs Richard and THROWS him in the corner of the room,

holding tightly to his wrist.

Seth hugs his little brother. Tight.

INT. MOTOR HOME - NIGHT

Scott and Kate are in the front seat of their parked motor

home. The motor home's parked in front of the Dew Drop

Inn's front office. We see Jacob inside getting a room from

the Old-Timer.

Jacob walks out of the office. Kate yells from the motor

home.

He opens the meter home door and climbs in.

Starting the huge car and slowly maneuvering it through the

courtyard.

EXT. COURTYARD - NIGHT

Seth walks out of room #9 with a beer in his hand. He's

thinking about how he's going to get over the border

tonight. Lost in thought, he steps out in the path of the

Fuller's motor home.

Jacob slams on the brakes. Seth jumps back, startled. Both

Kate and Scott are TOSSED out of their seats onto the floor.

THUD... THUD...

Jacob (pissed) honks his horn at Seth and yells out the

window.

THROUGH WINDSHIELD

Seth just stands right in their way without moving, gazing

up at the giant motor home.

JACOB BEHIND THE WHEEL

Kate and Scott join him up front looking at this weirdo.

Seth continues standing in their way, making no attempt to

move. Not threatening, just looking at them.

HONK!

The horn snaps Seth back to this world. A smile breaks out

on the escaped fugitive's face and he politely steps to one

side to let them pass.

Pass they do!

SETH

The Sword of Damocles is lifted from above Seth's head. He's

just solved a problem that a mere thirty seconds ago seemed

unsolvable. He knows exactly how he's going to cross the

border. Whistling a happy tune, he turns and walks back into

room #9.

INT. FULLERS' MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

The Fullers are in room #12. It's identical to the one that

the Gecko boys are in, except that the paintings above the

beds are different. Jacob has fallen asleep in his clothes

on the bed.

Scott sits in a chair, headphones on, playing an unplugged

electric guitar. Kate is nowhere in sight.

KNOCK... KNOCK... KNOCK... on the door. Scott doesn't hear

shit but his music. Jacob stirs a bit, but doesn't wake up.

POUND... POUND... POUND... on the door. Jacob SPRINGS UP.

He looks over at Scott, who, lost in guitar heaven, is

oblivious of the knocker, then to the door.

From the other side of the door comes a friendly voice.

Jacob swings his feet to the floor, stands up and walks to

the door. As he passes Scott, he says, in his direction --

Scott can't hear him, but when he sees his dad look at him,

he smiles.

Jacob opens the door and sees...

... Richard Gecko standing in the doorway, looking like the

nicest guy in the entire world.

We follow Jacob as he turns to the dresser to get the motel

ice bucket. He grabs it, turns back to the door, takes a

couple of steps towards it, then stops: in his tracks.

He sees Richard and Seth both inside the room with the door

closed, both with .45's in their hands, both aimed at him.

Seth SLUGS Jacob in the mouth, KNOCKING him to the ground.

Scott suddenly becomes aware of what's going on around him

and instinctively stands. Richard shoves his .45 in Scott's

mouth.

Scott lowers himself back down onto his seat.

Jacob lifts his head off the floor and wipes blood away from

his lip. He looks at his opponent who stands over him.

Jacob rises and sits on the edge of the bed.

Keeping the gun in Scott's mouth, Richard makes Scott rise...

...guiding him over to the bed by his father.

Richard removes the gun from Scott's mouth and stands next

to his brother, looking down at their two hostages.

The door to room #12 opens and a dripping wet, bikini clad

Kate walks in.

The brothers spin their guns in her direction.

Kate, startled, screams. Jacob and Scott get on their feet

and move forward. Seth spins back towards the two men, gun

ready to spit.

Jacob and Scott freeze.

Richard moves like quicksilver, shutting the door and

positioning himself behind the terrified Kate.

They slowly sit.

Richard can't take his eyes off the dripping wet Kate.

Both Jacob and Seth see this and neither men like it. Both

for their own reasons.

Richard doesn't move from his position behind Kate. Kate

feels his eyes on her. She slowly turns and looks at him.

He looks in her face.

CLOSE-UP KATE

She smiles at him.

CLOSE-UP RICHARD

Richard's eyes go to Seth.

Everybody is where they were. Kate never turned around.

Without saying a word, he takes the keys and leaves the

room.

She grabs some clothes from the floor and moves towards the

bathroom.

Seth GRABS her wrist.

She goes into the bathroom.

Seth grabs a chair and slides it up to his two male

hostages.

We hear the motor home "HONK" twice outside.

Jacob shakes his head "no."

Scott gets up and walks to the other side of the room,

leaving the two men alone. Seth speaks in a quiet,

conversational tone.

Jacob looks at him.

Seth BANGS on the bathroom door.

The bathroom door opens. Kate stands there, wearing a

T-shirt, jeans and bare feet.

EXT. HIGHWAY - NIGHT

The motor home with the powder-keg interior drives through

the Lone Star night.

INT. MOTOR HOME NIGHT

Richard's in the back bed area with a gun trained on Kate

and Scott. The two scared siblings hold hands.

Richard zeros in on her.

He doesn't smile.

In the front part of the motor home, Jacob sits behind the

wheel, driving into the night. Seth sits in the passenger

seat, going through Jacob's wallet and talking to him

calmly.

Seth repeats the names as he thumbs through the wallet.

Seth comes to a snapshot of Jacob and his wife.

Seth looks back at the wallet. He sees Jacob's minister's

license.

The two men look at each other for some measure of trust.

Seth sticks out his hand.

Seth can't help but think about the last time he gave his

word.

Jacob takes his hand, but looks right into Seth.

Kate goes into a drawer, pulls out a bible and brings it up

front.

Jacob does.

Seth places his hand on the Bible.

INT. MOTOR HOME - NIGHT

Richard's in the back with Kate and Scott. Richard,

expressionless, looks at Kate's bare feet.

SLOW ZOOM KATE'S BARE FEET

EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S TOES. They wiggle.

His eyes go to her hands.

SLOW ZOOM KATE'S HANDS

EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S FINGERS

His eyes go to her neck.

SLOW ZOOM NAPE OF KATE'S NECK

EX CLOSE-UP KATE'S ADAM'S APPLE. She swallows.

His eyes move up.

SIDE PROFILE OF KATE, SLOW ZOOM TO KATE'S LIPS

Back to Richard.

Kate turns to him.

Seth and Jacob.

Richard turns to Kate.

Kate still hasn't a clue what he means.

EXT. THE MEXICAN BORDER - NIGHT

Automobiles are lined up, waiting one by one to go into

Mexico. Cop cars with their red and blue lights flashing

are all over the place. Border Patrol men and Police are

stopping all cars. Pulling up to the end of the line is the

Fuller's mobile home.

INT. MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

Jacob at the wheel, Seth in the passenger seat. Seth jumps

up and goes into action.

Richard grabs the terrified Kate and drags her in the bathroom,

Scott does. Seth, keeping low, gets behind Jacob.

Seth disappears into the bathroom with Kate and Richard,

closing the door behind him.

Father and son are alone for the first time since this whole

thing began.

Jacob is surprised to hear Scott say this.

INT. BATHROOM - MOBILE HOME - NIGHT

The bathroom, which consists of a shower, a toilet and a

small sink, is a tight fit with three people in it.

Richard has his back against the wall, with his arm around

Kate, holding her in front of him. One hand is over her

mouth, the other holds a .45 against her head.

Kate's eyes are wide with fear.

Seth stands, .45 in hand, ready to fire if the wrong person

should open the door.

Everybody talks low and quiet.

Everyone's quiet for a second, till Richard breaks it.

Richard lets Kate go, she quickly moves to the side.

Kate can't believe what she's watching. Neither can Seth.

BACK TO JACOB AND SCOTT

Jacob grabs Scott by the front of his shirt, and yanks him

to him.

There's a HONK behind them.

They both look out the window. It's their turn with the

BORDER PATROL GUARDS. JACOB takes the wheel and drives up.

A stern BORDER GUARD approaches JACOB'S window.

BACK TO BATHROOM

SETH HAULS off and PUNCHES Richard smack in the head.

Richard HITS the floor, Guard, Jacob, and Scott hear

Richard fall in the bathroom.

CLOSE-UP BORDER GUARD

BACK TO BATHROOM

CLOSE-UP KATE

We can only see Kate's face. It's scared. We hear rustling

around the bathroom, but we don't know what it is.

Then it's quiet. Then we hear talking outside the door, but

we can't make it out. Then we hear a knock.

We hear the door open and see the light change on Kate's

face. She's looking up.

BORDER GUARD in the doorway looking in.

HE SEES: Kate by herself, pants around her ankles, sitting

on the toilet.

He closes the door. Kate lets out a breath. We wait a beat,

Seth pulls back the curtain in the shower, we see Richie on

the floor of the shower knocked out.

Seth and Kate meet eyes.

He gives her the O.K. signal.

BACK WINDOW MOTOR HOME

We see through the back window of the motor home, the border

getting smaller as we drive away from it.

Scott knocks on the bathroom door.

Seth BURSTS out of the bathroom.

Seth goes to the back window. He sees the border getting

farther and farther away. No cars following.

Seth throws his head back and SCREAMS for joy.

Kate, emerging from the bathroom, reacts to Seth's scream,

along with Scott.

Seth is so happy that he does a little jig in the back of

the van.

Everybody else is still tense as shit. But Seth lets go of

all his tension, and becomes a new man before our eyes. He

turns to Kate.

Kate, nervous, takes a step back.

He charges for her. GRABS her, hugs her around her waist,

and spins her around. When he lets her go, she stumbles

dizzily onto the bed.

Kate kind of half smiles.

Seth goes up front and slaps Jacob on the back.

Jacob doesn't share Seth's enthusiasm, but he is relieved.

He slaps him once again on the back, and leaves to attend

to Richard.

CLOSE-UP RICHARD without glasses. Unconscious, Seth slaps

his face.

Richard starts coming to and opens his eyes. Seth sits at the

foot of the bed.

Slowly shaking the cobwebs out of his head.

Jacob calls to the back.

A neon sign that flashes:

Underneath the joint's proud name on the sign, and

on top of "Biker/Trucker bar, Dusk till Dawn" is a

well-endowed woman, whose breast is being twisted

by a neon hand.

EXT. THE TITTY TWISTER NIGHT

The neon sign sits on top of the rudest, sleaziest, most

crab-infested, strip joint, honky-tonk whorehouse in all of

Mexico.

The Titty Twister is located out in the middle of

nowheres ville. It sits by itself with nothing around it for

miles. A plethora of choppers and eighteen wheelers are

parked out in front. The walls almost pulsate from the LOUD,

RAUNCHY MUSIC within the structure. Signs cover the walls

outside reading things like:

"NUDE DANCING", "WHORES", "BEER", "AUTHENTIC MEXICAN FOOD",

"BIKERS AND TRUCKERS ONLY", "OPEN DUSK TILL DAWN",

"THURSDAY COCKFIGHT NIGHT", "WEDNESDAY DOGFIGHT NIGHT",

"DONKEY SHOW MONDAYS", "EVERY FRIDAY BARE KNUCKLE FIGHT TO

THE DEATH, FEATURING THE LOVELY SANTANICO PANDEMONIUM",

"ATHENA AND DANNY THE WONDER PONY", and "THE SLEAZY TITTY

TWISTER DANCERS."

In the parking lot, a BIKER and a TRUCK DRIVER beat the shit

out of each other, one with a pipe, the other with a hammer.

A SECOND BIKER fucks a Titty Twister WHORE against the wall.

A greasy man, known as CHET PUSSY, stands in the parking

lot, soliciting customers through a Mr. Microphone.

The Fullers' recreational vehicle pulls into the parking

lot and stops.

INT. MOTOR HOME - NIGHT

What's left of the Fuller family and the Gecko family look

out the windshield onto the sight that is the Titty Twister.

Everybody nods and mutters in agreement.

EXT. PARKING LOT - NIGHT

The camper door FLIES OPEN and the two brothers and the

Fuller family step out into the night.

They look across the parking lot at the Titty Twister.

It literally looks in some ways like the entrance to hell.

Seth can't believe it.

The two brothers square off, not like strangers fighting,

but like brothers fight. They talk real quiet, but real

personal.

That's not what Seth expected to hear.

Richard believes Seth's response.

They walk toward the bar's entrance. Chet Pussy talks into

the microphone.

Chet notices our heroes, especially young Kate.

Chet POKES HIS FINGER in Seth's CHEST.

Seth GRABS HOLD of Chet's FINGER, BENDS it BACKWARDS till

the BONE SNAPS in two.

Chet lets out a SCREAM.

Seth VIOLENTLY brings his HEAD FORWARD PULVERIZING Chet's

NOSE.

Chet FALLS to his KNEES in front of Seth.

Seth HOOKS him with a powerful FIST UNDER his CHIN that

SNAPS Chet's HEAD BACK, and THROWS him on his BACK.

After HITTING the GROUND, Seth SENDS a SAVAGE KICK straight

to Chet's FACE, ROLLING HIM OVER.

Chet is OUT.

The whole altercation took two seconds.

Everyone's in shock and looks at Seth. Seth looks back at

everyone.

Richard and Seth laugh with each other.

They head for the door. Richard stays behind for a second,

and gives the fallen Chet a few, swift kicks,

INT. THE TITTY TWISTER NIGHT

If the Titty Twister looked like the asshole of the world

from the outside, in the immortal words of Al Jolson, "You

ain't seen nothin' yet." This is the kind of place where

they sweep up the teeth and hose down the cum, the blood

and the beer at closing.

In the back, TOPLESS DANCERS do lap dances with customers,

while a SLEAZY SEXY STRIPPER STRIPS to RAUNCHY MUSIC, played

at ear drum-bursting level. TWO MEN are in a savage

BAREKNUCKLE FIGHT, surrounded by screaming customers of

bikers and truckers.

One of the dancers is a man with a saddle on his back, his

name is DANNY THE WONDER PONY. The woman on his back, in

the saddle, feet in the stirrups, hands on the reins, is

ATHENA, his rider. They dance around to the cheers of the

crowd.

Bikers and truckers play pool in the back. Fights break out

here about one every ten minutes. The customers may start 'em,

but the bouncer, BIG EMILIO, ends 'em.

Seth, Richard, Jacob, Scott and Kate walk through the door.

They each individually take in the sights and the smells.

Seth is the first to say something.

The man behind the bar is RAZOR CHARLIE. He eyes the group

as they approach.

Their difference from the usual road waif nomads who

populate the Twister disturbs him. He exchanges a knowing

look across the room with Big Emilio, as the group bellies

up to the bar.

Big Emilio almost magically appears behind Seth and places

HIS BIG BEEFY SAUSAGE-FINGERED HAND HARD on Seth's shoulder.

Seth slowly turns his eyes to the big hand on his shoulder.

Jacob jumps in the middle.

Everybody looks at Jacob.

As Jacob talks he takes out his wallet.

Everybody's a little stunned after Jacob's speech.

Razor Charlie picks up the license, looks at Jacob, looks at

everyone in the party and smiles.

Seth BRUSHES OFF Big Emilio's paw.

Razor Charlie's eyes go to Seth. Even though he has a big

smile on his face, he looks like he's going to kill Seth.

But instead he just says,

Razor Charlie goes for the bottle. Big Emilio gives the

party one last look and walks away. Richard gives Jacob a

buddy punch on the shoulder.

Seth's still frying an egg on his head.

Richard puts his arm around Seth.

Razor Charlie brings the bottle and the glasses. Seth looks

at the guy, still pissed.

Razor Charlie knows Seth's taunting him with a racial slur,

but he just smiles and says,

Seth walks away, and the group follows him.

We just hang on the evil wheels turning inside of Razor

Charlie's head.

The five of them move across the floor to a table. As they

walk, Kate attracts stares, wolf whistles and rude comments

from some of the patrons. Jacob keeps near his daughter.

The dancers do their sexy routines. A big-chested,

wild-haired blonde catches Scott's eye. She winks at him.

Richard leans over and whispers in Scott's ear.

He gives the boy's neck a squeeze. Jacob's eyes survey the

surroundings. Big Emilio and Razor Charlie quietly exchange

words about the party in Spanish.

The five of them find a table and sit down.

Seth, still in a bad mood, takes the cork out of the whiskey

bottle and tosses it. He pours Richie and himself a glass.

Scott shakes his head no.

Seth pours Scott a shot.

Scott takes the drink and he, too, experiences an

on-drinker's tremor.

Seth turns to Kate.

Seth just passes her the bottle. She pours her own shot and

knocks it back.

Jacob turns to Seth and asks quietly.

Richard, Kate and Scott both turn to Jacob. Nobody can

believe what he just said. Neither can Seth who calmly lays

down his drinking glass.

Seth looks at Jacob, then picks up the bottle.

Jacob slides his empty glass over to Seth. Seth pours booze

in Jacob's glass and his own. Both men pick up the glasses.

They both knock 'em back and slap the empty glasses down.

Seth turns to Scott.

Seth sitting at the table, playing guitar, singing Mexican

songs. Some bikers, truckers, and whores have gathered

around their table. Everyone's groovin'. Seth finishes the

song. Everybody applauds.

Razor Charlie behind the bar grabs the greasy microphone

that he uses to announce dancers.

The lights go down low. A light hits the stage. The opening

notes of the Coaster's "Down in Mexico" fills the room.

The crowd hushes up.

And on the stage steps SANTANICO PANDEMONIUM.

This Mexican goddess is beautiful, but not the beauty that

Stendhal described in "As the Promise of Happiness," but

the beauty of the siren who lures men to their doom.

She dances to the raunchy music, not like she owned the

stage, but like she owned the world.

And if the patrons of the Titty Twister are her world, the

world is proud to be her possession.

All activity in the bar, save Santanico, stops. Even the

Fuller/Gecko table falls under her spell. Especially

Richard, Scott and Kate. Seth knows this song and

accompanies from the table with the guitar.

When the music builds to its explosive section.

Santanico LEAPS from the stage, LANDING in the middle of the

room.

She does an eyes-closed voodoo dance in perfect step with

the beat. As the music continues to play, a very fucked-up

looking Chet Pussy walks in. He goes over to Razor Charlie

and points at Seth's table, describing what happened.

As the last verse plays, Santanico, like a snake, comes up

from the ground, on top of the Fuller/Gecko table.

Richard, Kate and Scott are enraptured.

Santanico scans the table, zeroing in on our boy Richard.

She STANDS OVER him.

While moving her body to the music, she lifts up the whisky

bottle from the table, and pours the whiskey down her leg.

She lifts up her foot, with the whiskey dripping from her

toes, and sticks it in Richard's face.

Richie, mesmerized, sucks the whiskey off her toes. The

CROWD GOES WILD. Santanico smiles, master of all she

surveys.

Jacob and Scott are embarrassed.

Kate, oddly enough, is turned on by the controlling power

this woman has over a man she's deathly feared.

Seth laughs out loud a Mexican "yi yi yiii" laugh, keeping

the beat with his guitar.

Across the room, Razor Charlie, Chet by his side, motions

over Big Emilio. He begins explaining with pointing what

Seth and company did to Chet.

Richard continues to suck her toes.

The song ends, Santanico extracts her foot from Richard's

mouth. Steps off the table. Takes a drink of whiskey. Looks

down at the seated Richard.

She GRABS the back of his hair, YANKS his head BACK. His

mouth OPENS because she's hurting him. She LEANS her FACE

OVER his like she's going to kiss him. Then let's the whiskey

from her mouth fall into his. They never touch. The crowd

applauds. She lets go of Richard's hair. Except for Jacob

and Richard, both for their own reasons, the table applauds,

none louder than Seth.

One of Santanico's FLUNKIES brings the naked woman a robe,

which she puts on.

Richard, still in a daze, looks up at his new friend.

Santanico sits down next to Richie. Seth pours her a drink.

The table laughs.

As Seth tells his joke, Jacob notices Razor Charlie, Big

Emilio and Chet moving rapidly towards their table.

Seth waves him away.

Seth starts laughing at his own joke uproariously. Richard,

Kate, Scott and Santanico join in too. Before Jacob can say

anything --

The Titty Twister trio stand over the table.

That's all Big Emilio has to hear.

Big Emilio leans in with his beefy hand, GRABS Richard by

the shoulder. Richard lets out a howl as blood pours from

his wounded shoulder.

Santanico steps back from the table.

Seth jumps to his feet and FIRES a round from his .45 into

Big Emilio, sending his bullet-ridden body to the floor.

Razor Charlie whips out a straight version of his name sake

and SLASHES Seth across the face.

Seth SCREAMS at the top of his lungs as his hand goes up to

his laid open cheek.

Richard, who has fallen to the ground holding his wound,

brings up his .45 and starts BLASTING.

Razor Charlie takes a bullet in the head, chest and belly

before he hits the floor.

Jacob and his children have hit the floor as well to stay

out of gunfire.

The bikers, truckers, waitresses and whores all stop what

they were doing.

The music continues to play, though the dancers stop

dancing.

Santanico, who's closest to the two brothers, smells

something.

Her NOSTRILS FLARE.

Richard moves to his brother, who takes out a handkerchief

and puts it to his face.

Seth looks up and sees Chet still standing there.

Both brothers FIRE on Chet. Chet's blown left... right...

left... right... then drops, pointing their guns towards

the crowd.

SLOW MOTION: Blood drips down the side of Seth's face.

SLOW MOTION: It splatters to the floor.

The CAMERA scans the crowd. The patrons are scared, but the

waitresses, whores and dancers lick their lips.

SLOW MOTION: Blood drips from Richard's shoulder. It falls

to the floor, splattering.

WE MOVE INTO SANTANICO'S FACE. A special aroma fills

her nostrils. Her eyes lock on Richard. The look on her face

could easily be read as intense sexual desire.

CLOSE-UP KATE ON FLOOR

Looks up and watches, eyes wide with fear, Santanico's

transformation.

Her NOSE RECEDES INTO her face like a rodent's. The whites

of her eyes turn YELLOW. The FANGS of a beast PROTRUDE from

her mouth. Kate yells from the floor.

Before Richie can turn around.

SANTANICO LEAPS ACROSS THE FLOOR, LANDS on his BACK and

SINKS her FANGS into Richie's wounded SHOULDER.

Richard LETS LOOSE with an agonizing SCREAM.

Seth turns to his brother's cry.

He sees SANTANICO PANDEMONIUM, like a mongoose attached to

a cobra, legs wrapped around Richard's waist, fangs buried

deep in his shoulder, and Richard screaming and slamming

about, trying to knock her off.

Richard screams to Seth:

Seth tries to aim his gun, but there's too much movement. He

can't get a clear shot.

Jacob and his children can't believe what they're seeing.

Richard can't take it anymore, his knees buckle. Santanico

rides him down to the floor.

Seth gets a clear shot, he takes aim and FIRES, hitting the

vamp in the head, blowing her off his brother.

Richard, who's on all fours, tries to stand and gets about

half way before he stops, saying:

He tumbles over, a corpse.

Suddenly, the eyes of Big Emilio, Razor Charlie and Chet

Pussy pop open. The "dead" men sit up with evil grins on

their faces.

The patrons scream.

A WHORE locks the front door (which is a complicated lock

with steel rods going into the ground), turns toward the bar

and yells:

The bikers and truckers who have been transfixed, watching

the impossible, realize that the waitresses, naked dancers

and whores who they were pawing just five minutes ago, have

turned into yellow-eyed, razor-fanged, drool-dripping

VAMPIRES.

The vamps attack.

What follows is a shark feeding frenzy. Whores, who had been

sitting on customer's laps, sink their teeth into unshaven

necks.

Naked strippers and bikers wail the shit out of each other.

Truckers get their heads caved in by women half their size.

The patrons use what ever they can find to fend off the

monsters: chairs, chair legs, broken bottles, switchblades,

anything.

Jacob, Kate and Scott make a dash and dive behind the bar.

They hide and watch.

Seth stands where his was, limp dick of a .45 in his hand,

too freaked, scared and stunned to do anything. He stands

motionless, watching what he can't believe.

Behind him, Santanico, who lies next to the dead Richard,

eyes POP OPEN.

She RISES in her snake/dance way.

Seth feels her and SPINS in her direction, gun raised.

She approaches Seth, who FIRES at her. BAM... BAM... BAM...

CLICK... CLICK... CLICK... CLICK. She laughs and gives her

hair a toss back. Seth, moving backwards, is terrified.

Santanico gives Seth a SWINGING ROUND HOUSE PUNCH to the

JAW, that sends him FLYING over a table, SLIDING ACROSS the

FLOOR and INTO the WALL.

A bad-ass biker named FROST, with a hideous burn on the

side of his face, stands on top of a pool table, swinging a

pool cue, left to right, fending off vamps.

Big Emilio picks up a biker who stabbed him with a

switchblade and throws the poor bastard from one end of the

bar to the other.

The biker-winner of the bare knuckle fight, SEX MACHINE,

goes head to head with a stripper.

The vamp might have superhuman strength, but Sex Machine has

close to superhuman strength, and he's matching the

vamp bitch blow for blow.

Then he GRABS her by the waist, LIFTS her up over his head

and BRINGS her DOWN HARD on an upturned table, IMPALING her

on the wooden leg.

FROST is still swinging his POOL CUE, when Razor Charlie

appears, straight razor in hand.

Frost JUMPS off the table to meet the challenge. Razor

Charlie SWINGS at him, Frost LEAPS back, SWINGING his pool

cue at him. They do this dance, till Frost CRACKS Charlie

UPSIDE the HEAD with the pool cue, breaking it in half.

Charlie FEELS the HIT. Frost PLUNGES the splintered end of

the cue in Razor Charlie's heart.

Green blood comes out of his chest, as Charlie screams the

vampire's death scream.

Seth comes to and finds Santanico standing over him. He

tries to rise, but Santanico places her bare foot on his

chest, pinning him down to the floor. He tries to move, but

the pressure of her foot is equivalent to an engine block

placed on his chest.

SLOW MOTION: A WHISKEY BOTTLE FLIES THROUGH the AIR, sailing

CLOSE-UP SANTANICO

looking down at Seth, her face contorts to FEED MODE, when

the bottle HITS her SQUARE in the HEAD, SHATTERING.

We see that Jacob behind the bar threw it.

Santanico, bathed in whiskey and broken glass, is

momentarily dazed. She looks down at Seth.

Seth sits up, .45 in hand, and fires.

Santanico is HIT in the CHEST. The bullet from the gun makes

the liquor-soaked robe ignite.

Santanico SCREAMS as she GOES UP IN FLAMES.

Big Emilio sees Santanico's fiery death. He lets out a cry.

He turns his hateful gaze on the two humans.

Seth and Jacob see Big Emilio zeroing in on them, then they

see him move his big frame in their direction. Seth turns to

Jacob.

Big Emilio walks steadily through the bar like Godzilla

walks through Tokyo. Tipping over tables, knocking fighting

vamps and humans alike on their asses on his way to stamp

out Seth and Jacob. A TRUCKER JUMPS in his path to attack

him, with a QUICK SWING of his hand the trucker is brushed

aside, receiving a broken neck for the effort.

Big Emilio never breaks his stride or takes his eyes off

Seth and Jacob.

Seth and Jacob both grab pieces of wood, holding it like a

weapon, but the wood looks puny compared to their opponent.

Big Emilio stands in front of them. The two men hold their

wood tight. Fangs grow in Big Emilio's mouth that make him

look like a huge walking shark.

Just when Big Emilio's ready to strike, he hears behind him,

Big Emilio turns and sees Sex Machine across the room.

Both Seth and Jacob ATTACK Big Emilio from behind. He

effortlessly knocks them away.

They both hit the ground.

Sex Machine gestures with his hand to Big Emilio to "come

ahead."

Big Emilio CHARGES towards Sex Machine, like a runaway

locomotive.

Sex Machine stands his ground waiting for IMPACT. The two

huge men COLLIDE. What follows is literally a war of the

Gargantuans. The two mastiffs POUND each other till one

buckles. Finally, the one who buckles first is Big Emilio,

who HITS the floor.

Once on the floor, Seth and Jacob, stand over the huge vamp,

BEATING him with clubs and pipes, like L.A.'s finest. The

vamp can do nothing except SQUIRM on the floor from the

savage beating.

Jacob and Seth stop.

Sex Machine holds a pool cue in his hand. He SNAPS off the

end tip, making it jagged, and like a spear, STICKS it into

big vamp's fallen body. Big Emilio, SCREAMS, TWITCHES and

dies. The pool cue sticks out straight up from the dead

vamp.

Chet Pussy spies Ms. Apple Pie Pussy herself, Kate. He

breaks into a lecherous grin and licks the blood from

around his mouth.

Kate and Scott are cowering behind the bar when Chet appears

over the top. They both let out a scream. Scott goes to

protect his sister and receives a punch in the face for his

trouble. Chet dives at Kate.

Chet goes to bite Kate, grabbing at her t-shirt, and sees

her crucifix. HE recoils backwards. Scott grabs hold of

his head from behind. Kate jumps up from the floor, rips

off her cross and grabs Chet by his beatnik beard, opening

his mouth. She SHOVES the cross inside. Chet's eyes roll

up back into his head. Scott SLAPS Chet hard on the back.

GULP.

Chet has swallowed the crucifix. A SIZZLING sound is heard

moving down from his throat to his belly. He opens his

mouth and lets out a noise similar to a train whistle. He

jumps up from behind the bar, doing a wild dance from pain.

He jumps from wall to wall and floor to ceiling, screaming

all the while.

Kate and Scott watch him from the bar, mischievous grins on

their faces.

Chet is on his knees, arms stretched out, yelling at the top

of his lungs like a vamp King Lear.

Chet breaks off a chair leg, muttering to himself.

He plunges the stake into his own heart, but instead of the

vampire's cry that escapes from the others upon being

staked, Chet lets out a sigh of relief.

By this time there are not too many people left. Most of the

vampire have been killed by wooden stakes and most of the

customers have been butchered or drained.

All that's left on the vampire side are two naked dancers

and two whores. On the human side are Seth, Jacob and his

kids, Sex Machine and Frost. Aside from the children, who

are hiding behind the bar, all the humans are holding

wooden stakes.

The four human men group together. The four female vampires

charge, teeth exposed, snarling and dripping with blood.

Seth, Jacob, Sex Machine and Frost raise their weapons and

slam, almost simultaneously, the four vamps. All four

staked bodies hit the floor.

Kate and Scott run from behind the bar to their father's

side.

They all stand looking at the horrible carnage that has

taken place. The floor is littered with dead bodies.

At that moment a bright flash ERUPTS, illuminating

everyone's face. The sound of quick burning flames fills

the air. Everybody shields their eyes from the intense

light, which lasts only a split second.

It vanishes, along with the bodies of the vampires. All

that remains is a smoldering mess of goo where the bodies

once lay.

They all stare at the mess for a few seconds and then RUN

for the door. It's locked. They BANG on the door, but it's

useless. It ain't budging, yet they all go on banging.

Except for Seth. He never ran for the door. He walks over

to his dead brother's body and kneels beside it.

He takes his dead hand.

Seth goes to kiss his brother's lips when, RICHARD 'S EYES

POP OPEN. They're YELLOW. Seth RAISES his head in surprise.

Richard GRABS Seth by the front of his shirt and pulls him

down to him. Fangs are now exposed. Seth tries to pull away.

He SCREAMS for the others to help. Richard PULLS Seth down

to striking distance and opens his mouth to take the big

bite, when Sex Machine grabs Seth from behind and YANKS him

from Richard's grasp. Jacob, Frost and the kids have

surrounded Richard and proceed to KICK him and STOMP his

head. Sex Machine picks up a chair and SMASHES it against a

wall. He picks up one of the chair legs and walks over to

where the others are holding Richard down. Richard sees the

wood in the biker's hand. He knows what that means. Seth

whips out his .45 and points it at Sex Machine.

Jacob, Frost and the kids continue to hold Richard down to

the ground.

Seth aims his gun at the group.

Richard's giggling.

Seth, still holding the outstretched gun, takes the stake

out of Sex Machine's hand. Seth lowers the .45.

The smile evaporates from Richard's face.

Seth puts the stake over Richard's heart. Using the butt of

his .45 like a hammer, he POUNDS the stake into Richard's

heart. Richard screams and dies. They all stand around the

body as it BURSTS INTO FLAMES and disintegrates into goo.

Seth breaks away from the group and walks over to the bar.

He grabs a bottle of whiskey and starts downing it. Kate,

of all people, walks away from the group and joins Seth at

the bar.

Jacob walks over to Seth.

As Jacob has been talking, a sound has started that has

grown LOUDER and LOUDER. Jacob stops in mid-sentence to

identify it.

Seth puts the bottle in his hand down.

EXT. TITTY TWISTER - NIGHT

The outside of the Titty Twister is literally covered with

hats, CLAWING, FLAPPING, GNAWING, trying like hell to get

inside.

INT. TITTY TWISTER - NIGHT

Everybody listens to the bats SCRATCHING and clawing all

along the walls, the roof and at the front door. Everyone's

scared shitless and nobody has the slightest idea what to

do next. The door begins to crack and splinter, little

claws poke their way through.

Jacob runs to a table top. He grabs it and covers the area

the bats are trying to claw through. The others grab other

items to help secure and barricade the door.

As the survivors are panickedly boarding up the door and

the windows, a DEAD BIKER that the vampires fed on, pops

open his yellow eyes. He sits up and sees all the furious

activity. Everyone's so busy they don't notice their new

friend. The dead biker vamp sets his sights on Kate, who's

putting a board into place. He springs to his feet and

POUNCES on her, just as Sex Machine turns from across the

room in her direction.

The biker vamp GRABS Kate from behind. She lets out a

scream. The vamp holds her close to him in a bear hug, but

she's moving around so much he can't get a clear bite. The

others hear the scream and look toward Kate. Sex Machine,

Big Emilio's baseball bat in hand, is halfway to the rescue.

As the biker vamp opens his mouth to take a juicy bite out

of Kate's shoulder, Kate RAMS her head back, hitting the

vamp in the mouth and breaking his fangs. He releases her

and spits out his teeth just as Sex Machine runs up and

SWINGS the baseball bat upside the vamp's head, breaking

the bat in two and sending the vamp to the floor. As the

vamp lies on the floor seeing stars, Sex Machine grabs one

of the broken ends of the bat and SHOVES it in the vamp's

heart. He dies and bursts into flames.

At that point, three other dead victims rise to a sitting

position. Sex Machine grabs a chair and THROWS it to the

ground, breaking it. He grabs the four legs.

The biker has turned into Captain Sex Machine, Vampire

Hunter. He stakes two of the vampires as they get to their

feet. Both SPEW green blood, scream, die and burst into

flames. The third, a trucker vampire wearing a cat cap,

SMACKS Sex Machine in the mouth, which sends the biker for

a loop.

As CAT CAP runs toward the fallen Sex Machine, Kate JUMPS

on his back from behind. Both of them go tumbling into a

stack of whiskey cases. Sex Machine runs over and grabs Kate

by the hand, pulling her up and out of the way. Cat Cap is

lying in a pile of broken bottles and whiskey. Sex Machine

raises his stake as Cat Cap dies and DRIVES it in the

vamp's black heart. Cat Cap dies and bursts into flames,

which hits the whiskey, starting a giant fire.

Frost and Jacob stop barricading and run to the fire.

Kate and Sex Machine give each other a high five and go to

work STAKING the dead bodies.

Jacob and FROST beat down the fire with their jackets and

whatever else is at hand.

A hole begins to appear where a window had been plastered

over. Little claws scrape their way through. Scott stands

in front of the window.

Seth, who is barricading doors and window, looks in Scott's

direction. The hole in the plaster cracks open and out POPS

a little, fleshy vampire bat/rat head. The bat/rat, which is

SQUEAKING and HISSING its head off, tries to SQUEEZE its

body through the newly formed hole.

Seth, gun in hand, RUNS to the window. He points the .45,

point-blank range at the head of the bat/rat.

The bat/rat sees this, makes an "oh shit" face, and YANKS

his head back through the hole.

Seth was ready to fire, he lowers his gun in bewilderment,

when...

WHAM !

The bat/rat BURSTS through the hole, like shot out of a

cannon, HITTING Seth in the gut and sending him FLYING,

LANDING HARD on his back.

Once Seth hits the ground, the bat-thing (which has the body

of a fat rat with a bat's large wingspan) lickity-split

RUNS UP Seth's body to his juggler. Seth's hand GRABS the

bat's neck, and tries to PUSH it away. But the bat-thing has

its CLAWS DUG in Seth's clothes. The bat-thing is just

inches from Seth's face. Its mouth is SNAPPING.

Frost leaves Jacob with the fire, comes from behind and

GRABS the bat-thing and YANKS it off of Seth.

Sex Machine and Kate are a green, bloody mess from their

preventative staking of dead bodies. Sex Machine kneels by a

dead body, raising the stake in his hand to spear him. The

body SPRINGS UP and bites Sex Machine on the arm. Red blood

squirts all over. Sex Machine screams, then brings the stake

down in the body's chest. It dies, burns and turns into goo.

Sex Machine holds his bit arm and wraps it with a piece of

his shirt. He quickly looks around to see if anybody saw him

get bit. Nobody saw it, everybody was too busy.

Frost holds the FLAPPING, FIGHTING, SNAPPING bat-thing in

front of him at arm's length. He struggles with it for a

while, then...

BASHES its head against the bar. The first bash takes some

fight out of the little fucker, so... Frost BASHES his head

against the bar six or seven times. He then THROWS the

bat-thing on the bar, turns it over, garbs a pencil in a

cup next to the register, and RAMS it in the bat-thing's

heart. The bat-thing coughs and dies. There's a FLASH of

FLAMES, followed by a pile of goo.

Sex Machine and Kate have covered up a hole in the plastered

window with a table while Frost, Scott and Seth wrestle with

the bat-thing.

Jacob has put out the fire. Everybody comes together,

exhausted, and takes a breather. Outside, the bats continue

to try and claw their way in.

Everyone mutters "yeah."

Everybody agrees.

Jacob looks at his watch.

Everybody laughs.

Frost and Sex Machine look toward Jacob.

Jacob PUNCHES Seth in the mouth, sending him to the floor.

Jacob stands over him.

Seth looks up from the floor.

Seth rises.

Jacob has to laugh at that. So does everybody else. Jacob

sticks out his hand and shakes Seth's.

The laughter and good humor passes quickly and the only

sound to be heard is that of the bats gnawing and clawing.

It immediately reminds the group of the deep, deep shit

they're in.

They thought I was dead, so I played dead. They dumped all

the bodies in a ditch. All I could do was lie there playing

possum. Dead bodies under me, dead bodies on top of me,

listening to the enemy laugh and joke hour after hour after

hour...

As Frost goes into his monologue, the sound fades out and

the camera moves to Sex Machine. He's having a hot flash. He

can't hear anything. He's looking at Frost speaking, but he

doesn't hear any sound. Then he hears a deep, MALE VOICE

say:

"Who the fuck was that?" he thinks to himself. He turns

around: nobody's there. No one else in the group seems to

hear it, A FEMALE VOICE seductively says:

We hear Sex Machine's thought in a voice answer.

Sex Machine looks at Frost, who's acting out his story. The

biker is pantomiming fighting and slashing. He's describing

all the while, but we can't hear anything. All we hear are

many voices, male, female, children saying:

Sex Machine begins looking at the other members of the group

in a thirsty way. He stares at each of their necks, closer

and closer until he can see the veins on Frost's neck

actually pulsating, throbbing, beckoning to him. Sex Machine

has turned into a vampire.

The sound comes back as Frost finishes his story.

Sex Machine lets out a hideous cry.

Frost SCREAMS as Sex Machine grabs hold of him and BITES

into his neck.

The group tries to PULL the TWO men apart.

Jacob gets his arm around Sex Machine's neck and tries

pulling.

Sex Machine takes his teeth out of the biker's neck and

SINKS them in Jacob's arm.

Jacob SCREAMS and lets go.

Seth, Kate and Scott react to Jacob being bit.

Sex Machine GRABS Jacob and TOSSES him effortlessly over the

bar, CRASHING into a shelf full of liquor bottles.

Frost HOPS around the room, mad as a hornet, holding his

bleeding neck.

Sex Machine PUNCHES Seth in the face, dropping him like a

sack of potatoes.

He smacks the shit out of Kate. She goes FLYING into a

table.

Sex Machine turns, seeing Frost breaking off a big table

leg. Frost looks at the big vamp.

Frost, table leg in hand, RUNS, SCREAMING his head off,

straight at Sex Machine.

Sex Machine's nostrils flare. He raises his meaty fist and

pulls it back, so he can really haul off.

Frost, top speed, stake raised, screaming. Sex Machine lets

loose with his punch, Seth, Scott and Kate look up from the

floor. Jacob rises from behind the bar. Frost's face

COLLIDES with Sex Machine's fist. Sex Machine hits Frost so

hard it lifts the biker off the ground and propels him

through the air.

Seth sees where Frost is heading and says:

Jacob sees.

Frost, in mid-air, HITS the barricaded, plastered overwindow

and CRASHES through it.

Sex Machine lets loose with a maniacal laugh. Hundreds of

bat-things fly into the bar. Seth grabs the two kids by the

hand and runs for the backroom.

Behind the bar, Jacob grabs two pieces of wood from off the

ground.

Ten bat-things are in hot pursuit of Seth, Kate and Scott,

who are RUNNING for their lives. They get to the door of the

back room, whip it open, dive in and SLAM it behind them. An

ugly, fleshy bat-thing manges to get its head caught in the

door as it closes. Kate and Scott PUSH on the door as hard

as they can. The bat-thing's head, which is inside, screams,

howls and snaps in fury.

Seth turns toward the bat/vamp in the door. He sticks his

.45 in its big mouth.

He FIRES four shots that blow the bat vamp's head all over

the wall.

Kate yells:

She spins and grabs the door knob, ready to fling the door

and help her father. Scott grabs her and pushes her up

against the wall.

Just then they hear Jacob's voice BOOMING from the bar room.

INT. BAR ROOM - NIGHT

Jacob, holding a cross made out of two sticks and reciting

appropriate verse from the bible, is keeping the vampires at

bay. But, as Seth predicted, it is the shining power of his

restored faith that is his mightiest weapon. Jacob is making

his way through the vampires, toward the back door. A lot of

the bats have transformed into bat/devil/human creatures.

The creatures stand at the edge of Jacob's force field of

holiness. Many bat things fly around the bar like mad,

whirling dervishes. A cluster of bat-things over above and

in front of Jacob. They all growl and hiss at the man of

god. For every one step forward Jacob takes, the vampire

stake one step back. Jacob recites the verse from the bible

in a threatening, mean, mother fucking, servant of god tone.

As he speaks with authority and strength, he sees Frost

lying on the ground, bat-things on him like ants on a

candy bar. But Jacob is too much in control to let even this

repugnant sight trip him up.

Jacob has backed himself up by the door.

The door FLIES open. Jacob jumps inside. The door SLAMS

shut.

Jacob hugs daughter and son. As he hugs them, we see his

bloody arm.

When he releases them, they can't help but notice.

Seth explodes, knocking over boxes, busting chairs, tipping

over tables and cussing a blue streak.

Seth runs over to the barricaded door and yells to the

creatures on the other side.

Kate is crying, she knows what's happened to her father.

Scott and Kate, crying, grab their father and hold on for

dear life. Jacob wants to cry, but if he breaks down, the

kids will never have the courage for what they must do.

Jacob sees that the back room is pretty damn big and filled

with boxes and crates.

MONTAGE

The survivors are opening boxes and prying open crates. A

lot of what they find is bullshit. Pantyhose, coffee,

teddy bears, etc. But a few of the boxes are just what the

doctor ordered. Cases from a sporting good supplier yield

a shipment of baseball bats. Meant to arrive at toy stores

are a shipment of Uzi replica squirt guns and a box of

balloons. And captured en route to a hardware store are

shipments of power tools, saws and jack hammers.

Seth and Scott saw the bats into wooden stakes.

Kate fills the Uzi squirt guns with tap water from the

backroom sink.

Jacob, with Seth's knife, etches a cross into every bullet

in the .45 automatic's last full clip of ammo.

Vampires all start converging on the back room door,

getting their courage back.

Kate makes water balloons.

Scott sharpens the stakes to a point with the tools. Seth

attaches a wooden stake to the end of a jackhammer.

Jacob blesses the water in the squirt guns and balloons,

turning it into holy water.

Our heroes work together, preparing for the battle to come.

The back room door, barricaded with crates and boxes,

begins to be pounded on by the undead on the other side.

The room tone is a combination of chewing, scratching,

pounding, squeaking and screaming.

Finally they're ready.

Jacob turns to his kids.

The kids can't say the words.

Jacob doesn't believe them.

Kate doesn't answer. Jacob places the .45 barrel against his

temple.

INT. BARROOM - NIGHT

The vampires, bat-things and what have you, start BREAKING

down the door. They are in a mad frenzy. They burst through

the door.

Waiting for them are Scott and Kate holding Uzi squirt guns

and water balloons draped down their chests on a belt like

grenades. Jacob is holding a cross made of sharp wooden

stakes and the .45 with the cross bullets. Seth is holding

the jackhammer. The survivors walk out of the back room

into the bar. The vamps back up, letting them inside.

What we have here is a Mexican standoff, a la "The Wild

Bunch." A moment of peace before the battle. The vamps just

watch the humans. The humans just watch the vamps. Then,

like the bull in the china shop, Seth ends the peace by

starting up the jackhammer.

Jacob holds up the cross, the vamps react.

The kids SPRAY the crowd with UZI fire, burning vampire

flesh.

The pack of vamps retreat while the Fuller squad walk

forward.

They are attacked on all sides, but they keep moving towards

the door.

Seth slams the stakes into several of the vamps, it speeds

in and out of vampire chests, each time spraying him in

green vamp blood.

Jacob shoves his cross stake into a vampire with one hand

and SHOOTS three vampires with blessed bullets with the

other.

Flame BURSTS from the vampires' chests when the bullets hit.

Kate and Scott both whip water balloons off their belts and

toss them into the crowd.

They burst and FRY several of the vamps, who fall, screaming

in pain.

From its perch on a wood ceiling beam, a bat-thing drops and

HURLS toward the group.

Jacob sees it, raises his gun and FIRES.

The bat-thing bursts into a ball of screaming fire.

Seth continues carving a path to the front door by slamming

the hammer stake into vampire chests.

The front door is barricaded again by a big table and other

junk.

Seth tries to get to the front door, when Sex Machine, now a

half bat, half devil vamp, about six foot seven, drops from

above in front of him. Seth RAMS the stake in its chest. The

Sex Machine-thing screams out, LIFTING the hammer and Seth

off the ground.

Seth is thrown from his hold on the hammer across the room,

he CRASHES into a table.

The Sex Machine-thing falls back with the jackhammer

sticking out of his chest, dead.

Kate, spraying Uzi fire like Rambo, sees Seth fall. She

screams:

Seth quickly gets up to find himself surrounded by vampires

on all sides. With no weapons, he puts up on dukes.

Kate clusters with her father and Scott.

Kate turns into a squirt gun firing, water-balloon throwing,

one-woman army, as she breaks from her father and heads in

Seth's direction.

Kate mows down the group by Seth, they lie on the floor,

burning in agony. Kate takes Seth's hand and gives him a

couple of water balloons and a stake.

Cutting through vampires, the two make their way across the

bar.

Jacob, firing the .45, takes out several more vampires in

fiery death.

Scott fires the Uzi and chucks more water balloons.

As Jacob fights, all of a sudden the sound goes out. He

can't hear anything. He wonders if he's gone deaf. He starts

to hear the words: "Thirst, thirst, thirst." He notices the

vampires have stopped attacking him. They look at him wit

happy smiles on their devilish faces. Fangs begin to grow.

His eyes are yellow.

Scott turns to his dad. He sees his father is a monster.

Jacob, with a devilish grin on his face, GRABS Scott and

sinks his teeth into Scott's forearm. Scott screams bloody

murder as his dad begins to drain him of blood.

Scott takes one of the water balloons he's wearing and

SMASHES it against Jacob's head.

The holy water melts half of Jacob's face away. He lets go

of Scott, screaming, and drops the .45 on the floor.

Scott drops to the ground, picking up the gun. He brings it

up to fire.

A totally evil Jacob, with only half a face, matches stares

with the boy he once called his son.

Scott's eyes turn to steel.

He FIRES, sending a holy bullet into Jacob's forehead,

creating a hole from which fire shoots out. Jacob's entire

head bursts into flames, then explodes.

From across the room, Fate sees her daddy ignite. She

cries out. In the thick of the battle, Seth yells:

Kate takes his advice and hits a vamp square in the face

with a holy water balloon, which melts his head.

A bat-thing lands on the back of Scott's neck. He screams as

it bites into him. He drops the .45.

Kate sees Scott get bit.

Another bat-thing lands on Scott's arm and takes a bite.

Scott screams.

She goes to spray them when her Uzi runs out of water.

Now seven bat-things are on Scott biting and sucking blood.

Scott is in agony.

Kate runs for her brother, does a DIVE and a ROLL, coming

up by the .45, SNATCHING it in one motion and FIRING three

times.

One... two... three bat-things are hit, shoot flames, then

all of them EXPLODE, BLOWING UP Scott.

The remaining vamps approach.

All the humans have left is a few bullets and one holy

balloon.

The two survivors are backed up against a wall. Two bat

things do a Kamikaze dive from the air toward Seth. Seth

throws the holy balloon at them. Direct hit. The two

bat-things burst into flames and spiral to the floor.

The two survivors look at the vampires, who stand before

them. A moment of stillness before the attack. Kate stands

holding the .45, arm outstretched.

The vamps begins to close in. Kate lines up the .45 sights

on the face of an approaching vampire.

Seth holds the Uzi like a club, ready to bash in the first

vampire's head that gets in swinging distance.

Beams of sunlight shoot through the holes that Kate shot

through the wall. Approaching vampires burn. The scorched

vamps scream like they've never screamed before.

Kate turns away from the vamps and shoots holes in the wall

behind him, Daylight comes through, providing Kate and

Seth with a safe, lighted area.

The .45's empty.

The vamps hiss and scream at the frustration of not being

able to get at them.

The two survivors hold hands, when...

All of a sudden the door to the Titty Twister is pounded on

from the outside.

The vamps look towards it in horror.

From the other side of the door, we hear a voice with a

Spanish accent.

The vamps are totally fucking freaked out! They run and fly

around the bar in a panic. Crying, howling, grabbing onto

each other.

The front door is TORN apart from shotgun fir coming from

the outside, punching holes the size of basketballs in the

door.

The table in front of the door gives and FALLS forward.

The door caves in and sunlight invades the bar. Many vamps

are instantly fried, bursting into flames.

The Mexican gangster CARLSO and his two henchmen, DANNY and

MANNY, are horrified at what they see. They cross themselves

in fright.

Vampires search for dark corners, but all is lost. Sunlight

hits a mirrored ball attached to the ceiling, sending

hundreds of beams of sunlight scattering through the room.

Vamps try and dodge the beams. No dice. All around the vamps

combust in fiery explosions.

The Titty Twister is now on fire, burning out of control.

Seth and Kate run through the building and leap through the

door into the parking lot.

EXT. TITTY TWISTER PARKING LOT - MORNING

Carlos, Danny and Manny help them to their feet and walk

them away from the blazing bar. They catch their breath by

Carlos's Mercedes.

Seth signals Carlos to wait a minute while he catches his

breath. Then he hauls off and PUNCHES Carlos square in the

kisser. Danny and Manny aim their shotguns at Seth.

Carlos stands up again.

Danny and Manny react to the vampire news by crossing

themselves again.

They look at each other, then shake hands, saying in unison.

Seth gets the suitcase and gives Carlos 25%. Seth walks over

to a red 1990 Porsche 911.

Carlos, Danny and Manny pile into Carlo's white Mercedes.

Seth by his Porsche, looks back at Kate.

Kate stands alone.

The whole desert seems between them.

So much to say ... but no words.

Long pause.

Seth turns his back on her. Just as he opens the door, Kate

says behind him:

Seth turns around.

Seth smiles.

He blows her a kiss across the desert.

She blows one back.

Seth's in his car and GONE.

Kate turns around, faces endless desert before her, and

begins her long walk home.

THEME OF MOVIE BEGINS POUNDING

