11/10/98

Initial Shooting Script

NOTE: THE HARD COPY OF THIS SCRIPT CONTAINED SCENE NUMBERS.

THEY HAVE BEEN REMOVED FOR THIS SOFT COPY.

At the very edge of hearing, the tone of human VOICES.

Unintelligible, babbling, eerie.  Then a loud FLAPPING SOUND.  It

shifts from one side of the theater to the other, like something

moving among the wall hangings.

As the TITLE appears, the noise mounts, drowning out the VOICES,

agitated, becoming violent, banging... inhuman.

EXT. HOUSING PROJECT, CHARLESTOWN, MASSACHUSETTS - DAY

ON a housing project in the industrial outskirts of Boston.  The

BANGING seems to flutter away, leading us along, searching... to a

tiny balcony, one of dozens, ten stories up.  And there, the source

of the sound --

-- A SHEET, snapping in the wind.  The umbrella-like clothes line

on which it hangs bangs against a dirty glass door as if trying to

get in.

THROUGH THE GLASS DOOR a woman paces inside, agitated.  The VOICES

rise over the banging, becoming intelligible --

INT. LIVING ROOM, NELL'S APARTMENT - DAY

-- becoming a fight.

across a diminutive, neat, but poor living room.

At first we can't even see who she's yelling at.  At first we don't

even notice her.  Then we do...

Holding herself, in a dim corner away from the light, small, plain,

like a part of the faded room is

She stares at the door.  The clothes line raps at the begrimed

glass.

The wind dies, the banging stops.  Nell seems to hear Jane and

peers over at her, then across the room to Jane's bored husband,

hands, studying it.

Nell watches Jane's little boy,

cartoons on the TV, he plows a plastic tank across a shelf through

neat rows of delicate PORCELAIN DOLLS.

Richie knocks a porcelain DOLL off, and it breaks all over the

carpet.  His parents don't notice.  But Nell feels it in the soul.

Richie stops.  A long beat.  He looks at her, insolent, then plows

on with his tank.

Nell explodes in outraged fury, startling us.

She goes to Lou, puts a hand on his shoulder, proud of her

generosity.  All Nell can do is stare.

And then: KNOCK KNOCK.  Like a shot Nell is out of the chair and

turning for a set of FRENCH DOORS across the room.  It's all

reflex.  Nell catches herself.

KNOCK KNOCK.  Richie, lying on the couch like he's sick, raps on

the wall with a wooden CANE and squeals:

Nell REACTS, but rather than being amused or annoyed, a wave of

TRAUMA flickers over her face.  The reaction is so strong we

instantly know something is very wrong.

Nell turns away, sick, breathing hard.

Jane picks up a JEWELRY BOX from a dresser.

Nell knows what is going to happen to that jewelry.  Jane no longer

can bear the weight of Nell's stare, checks her watch.  She nods at

Lou.  Lou rises, pocketing the coin set.  Richie follows him out.

INT. NELL'S KITCHEN - DAY

Nell rams through the door into the small kitchen, spotless, empty.

And then bursts into tears.  Shaking, she digs in her back pocket

and pulls out a FINE FILIGREE NECKLACE.  Her mother's.  It's from

an age gone by.

Clutching the necklace, she goes back out the door.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NELL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Nell crosses the living room straight for the closed French doors,

the glass obscured by gauze curtains.  She throws them open and

enters --

INT. SICK ROOM - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- what once was a dining room.  Transformed into a sick room.

Drawn shades.  Dim.  The first traces of dust.

Nell lingers in the doorway a beat, daunted.

A perfectly made bed.  The PILLOW, however retains the IMPRESSION

of a head.  Lodged between the bed and a nightstand, a CANE.  On

the opposite side of the bed is a plastic toilet.  I.V. stand.

Shrouded white shapes.

On the wall above the bed, a framed needlepoint counsels: A PLACE

FOR EVERYTHING, EVERYTHING IN ITS PLACE.  A bit of wisdom.  A way

to live a life.

A way Nell has lived for too long.  Seeing it galvanizes her into

movement.  She goes to an old armoire, a medicine chest, opens it,

removes a BOTTLE OF TYLENOL WITH CODEINE and marches out.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NELL'S APARTMENT - DAY

Nell closes the doors on the chamber of horrors, exhales.  She has

been holding her breath.

INT. NELL'S KITCHEN - DAY

Nell sits at her tiny kitchen table, water glass and Tylenol in

front of her.  The necklace dangles from her fingers.  She stares,

mesmerized by it.  Then she undoes the hasp.  The clothes line

outside BATTERS louder --

-- and, defiant, Nell puts the necklace on.  She closes her eyes.

Silence.  The battering has stopped.  A BEAT.  And then the PHONE

RINGS.  Nell opens her eyes.  The phone RINGS.  Keeps ringing.

Nell, feeling the drug, finds her way to the phone and picks up.

Nell listens for a long moment.  She picks up the classifieds,

flips through.  And there it is:

WANTED - RESEARCH SUBJECTS.  $900.00/.WEEK + RM.&BD. @ BEAUTIFUL

OLD HOUSE IN BERKSHIRES.  PSYCHOLOGY STUDY.

INT. PSYCH OBSERVATION LAB - DAY

The lab feels more like the video center of a security office than

a psychologist's laboratory.  Two banks of black and white monitors

give us images of men and women, different ages, different races,

wired to electrodes.  They are taking psychological tests, although

we never see the Testers.  The subjects are working through

variations on object manipulation and pattern recognition tests.

There are subtle differences between the two banks of monitors.  On

the left, the subjects are all twitching at exactly the same time,

on the right, the subjects are also twitching, but in no

discernible sequence.  The subjects on the left are better able to

concentrate on their tasks.  The subjects on the right keep

stopping, and going over what they have done.

Two men,

head of the department; someone we trust.

He faces

rests uneasily on his ambition, and in the tension between the two

is the power that makes him the teacher students love.  Right now,

though, he is defending himself before a Department Review.  This

is not a court martial with judges behind a desk, it's more free

form.

The men are having a fight, and they are watched by OTHER

PROFESSORS.

Malcolm looks at the monitor.  This is Marrow's chance to explain

it again.

At this moment,

opens the door with an armload of files.  Whatever else she's

wearing, she wears glasses.  Marrow, seeing her, motions for her to

go away.  He doesn't break eye contact with Malcolm.  Mary

hesitates...

Malcolm sees Mary Lambretta.

She understands, and she closes the door.

Marrow waits.

But he nods.  Permission granted.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LAB - DAY

They open the door.  They walk out.  Mary is there.  She closes her

eyes, and does a gypsy voice.

This relieves the pressure.  Malcolm is not listening anymore and

storms off.

Marrow has a sly smile.  They go into his office through another

door in the lab.

INT. MARROW'S OFFICE - DAY

Long, narrow, badly lit, it's filled with filing cabinets, stacks

of unread textbooks still in publisher's plastic, a desk with

computer.  As soon as they enter, Mary looks at the phone.

And then the phone rings.  He doesn't pick it right up, he lets it

ring.

The phone still rings.  Marrow answers.

He hangs up.

Marrow is trying to read the first file as he goes to his desk.

Mary shows him a huge CORKBOARD covered with photos, articles, and

various items.

A PHOTO OF NELL falls on the floor.  Marrow scoops it up.  He holds

the photo of Nell up to Mary, and look at the written notes and

studies the graphs that go with it.

Marrow considers the lonely image for a long moment and then looks

at the graph of her test scores.

Mary balks at his teasing.

Marrow continues to study the files.

We don't pay as much attention now to the cork board as to other

images on the wall.  We find clinical-looking shots from Stanley

Milgram's experiments: subjects appearing to scream in response to

electrical shock.

Rows of weeping prisoners in the Stanford prison experiment.

Photos of victims crushed under the stands of a soccer stadium, the

aftermath of a riot.  A picture of the Fuhrer before his mesmerized

masses.  Mary opens a large envelope.  She takes out a photograph

that we can't see.

Mary studies the picture, and she can't answer him.  In her

glasses, we get the thinnest reflection of the photograph, a

glimpse of dark brick and high chimneys.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Nell, in a rust-wormed old Buick, glances from the road to

computer-drawn DIRECTIONS TO HILL HOUSE.  She HUMS A TUNE, soft,

lonely, like a lullaby but eerie, off-key.

EXT. ROUTE 39 - DAY

The car speeds down the country road, past old stone walls, out

into rolling meadow, its winding route taking it across the western

Berkshires, farther and farther into the glorious hills.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Countryside speeds by.  She passes an antique store in a barn.  A

handpainted sign warns MELBY'S APPLE FARM 100 YARDS.  Nell grabs

for the window handle, letting in air.

She snorts, smelling, breathing like it was the first time in her

life... sounding like a pig.  And it makes her burst out in

embarrassing, animal laughter.

EXT. HILLSDALE - DAY (ESTABLISHING)

The white-steepled church, five stores and gas station of Hillsdale

lie in a forgotten notch in the hills.

EXT. GAS STATION - DAY

Nell is pumping gas at a country station.  She is alone at the

pump.  As she finishes, she hears a BABY CRYING.  She looks up.

She is immediately drawn by the sound.

She moves to a car at another pump.  The car is empty.  The windows

are rolled up.  She peers into the car, through the window, and

sees a toddler in a car seat.  The child is crying.  Nell looks

around, no one is there.  She makes faces at the baby, coos to it.

She does a peek-a-boo game, and the baby stops crying, the baby

even starts to giggle.

A VOICE from behind.

Nell turns.  The Mother is a busy country mom, arms filled with

stuff from the gas station's market.

The mother has the car open and the baby is smiling now.

The woman smiles in something like sympathy, and gets in her car.

When she does, we see a friendly GAS STATION ATTENDANT appear

behind Nell.

Nell takes out her computer drawn directions and an old map.

His helpful attitude changes dramatically.

He takes the map book and tears out the page and crumples it up.

He turns abruptly and walks away.

Nell slams the Buick door, and breathing hard, starts the engine.

She gets control, and puts the car in gear.  She's shaken.  Badly.

EXT. COUNTRY LANE - DAY

Nell's Buick bounces over a country road.  The car works its way up

into the steep, switchbacking hills.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Nell looks out at the forest, feels a chill.  The road is more like

a tunnel through the forest than a road.

EXT. HILLS - DAY

Nell's car speeds through the trees, climbing the hills, higher and

higher into the awesome solitude.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Nell takes a final switchback, and something off to the right

catches her eye, then is gone in the trees.  She watches again for

it.  There.  A glimpse of a gray stone property wall set back

twenty yards from the road.

There it is again.  Moss-greened, twenty feet high, a wicked array

of iron spikes and glass mortared atop it.

And then out of the tangled forest in front of her looms a pair of

immense stone pillars.  Between them, a steel GATE as high as the

wall, chained and padlocked.

EXT. HILL HOUSE GATE - DAY

The gate stands immense.  Silent.  Forbidding.  Beyond them a

gravel drive curves away through the trees.  Nell kills her car,

gets out, instructions in hand.  No one in sight.  A long beat.

She reaches in and blows the HORN.

The HORN shatters the air, rackets off the trees beyond the gate,

echoing.  Silence.

Nell blows the HORN a sustained staccato in annoyance.  The echo

replies in a terrible, deafening battering of sound.  Nell covers

her ears.  Silence once again.

In a fit of agitation she goes to the padlock and rattles it.  It's

locked good.  She turns --

-- and there is a man right behind her.  It is

tied back like an ex-hippie.  He stands between Nell and her open

car door, weed spear in hand.  He smiles at her -- rough, dirty,

massive.

She hands him the directions.  He glances at them.  She uses the

distraction to get into her car.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Nell looks at the gate, some part of her aware it's a point of no-

return.  Mr. Dudley eases over to her window.  Mr. Dudley gives her

one last look and goes to the gate.  He produces a keyring and

undoes the padlock.

He unwinds the enormous chain, heavy turn after heavy turn.  The

gates swing in, revealing HILL HOUSE.

Grinning, Dudley steps aside and Nell rolls through.  And at that

he just grins wider.  Nell pulls away.  Disturbed, she watches him

in the rearview mirror.  She turns and in front of her sprawls Hill

House.  At center, the features of the oldest part of the House

dwarf all others: towering, eye-like windows and the jaws of a

Grand Entry with carved ebony doors.

EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY - DAY

The car rumbles up the drive toward the carport.

INT. NELL'S CAR - DAY

Nell stops the car in front of the entrance, right inside the

carport.  In the silence all we can hear is her breathing.

EXT. HILL HOUSE - DAY

Her car sits in front of the house, tiny, alone.  Its brake lights

go off.

The finger-like pillars of the car port seem like a hand pinning

the car in place under the House's gaze.

Nell gets out of the car.

Nell stares, daunted... yet there is something about the House.  A

romance in its lilac heavy Gothic decay.  Nell feels it, is drawn

to it.

EXT. GRAND ENTRY - DAY

Nell, suitcase in hand, climbs the steps to the front doors.  On

closer inspection, the snaking shapes of the carved doors depict a

Garden of Eden.  At center on the knocker, a tarnished silver Adam

takes the forbidden fruit from his counterpart Eve.

Nell lifts Adam and knocks heavily.  There is no answer.  Nell

looks around for some sign of life.

Off to one side is a LADDER and PAINT CANS.  Somebody must've been

touching up the window trim.

When she looks back the door is AJAR a fraction of an inch.

Tentative, she pushes it open into --

INT. GRAND ENTRY - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- a vast entry towering away to a ceiling lost in shadow far

above.  Rays of light filter through floor-to-ceiling curtains.

Doors lead off in a half dozen directions.

Every piece of woodwork or plaster in the house is carved,

filigreed, painted or ornamented in wild, ornate fashion.  It

overwhelms the eye.

She turns around, sets her suitcase on the marble floor.  A short

hallway straight ahead seems to let onto some vast space, dimly

lit.

And then Nell hears a SOUND.  Carrying through the empty halls from

some distant place: a low, plaintive MOAN.

Nell freezes.  The MOANING stops.  Nell strains her ears.  And then

the MOAN again.  It comes from the short hallway ahead.  Nell

starts for it.  The Moan stops.

INT. HALL FROM ENTRY TO GREAT HALL - DAY

Nell moves down the hall.  It's dim, stale, lined with pier tables,

candelabra.

Her voice echoes from the room beyond.  She follows her own voice

into --

INT. GREAT HALL - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- A long, oval great hall.  Passages and doors lead off in all

directions to God-knows-where.  A double-grand staircase at the far

end ascends to a landing shrouded in darkness before turning up the

next floor.  Magnificent ANIMAL HEADS carved on the newel posts

glare at her.

Nell makes her way past clusters of furniture, stops at the center.

Silence.  An ENORMOUS FIREPLACE dominates one wall.  Large enough

to stand in.  An iron mesh SCREEN hangs in its mouth.  Mantle and

chimney rise in dark, baroque masonry, becoming lost in the shadows

above.

The MOANING sound.  Nell spins away from the fireplace.  The sound

rises from the door at the very back of the hall.  Nell takes a

step toward it.

She moves up to the door, puts a hand out to it.  The MOANING

rises. Nell pushes through --

INT. 1ST FLOOR HALLWAY TOWARDS KITCHEN - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- into a much narrower, curving hallway.  Doors all along it.  The

sound comes from the door right there across from the one Nell just

came through.  She flings it open --

INT. KITCHEN - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- and comes through into a vast kitchen.  A woman in black with

her back to Nell stands at a counter.  The moaning comes from a

disreputable old CAN OPENER.

Nell breaths, feels stupid.  The woman senses her, turns from her

cans of potatoes.  She is

Mrs. Dudley wipes her hands, regards Nell, nods.

Mrs. Dudley just stares with her sunken face.  It unsettles Nell.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY/MEZZANINE - DAY

Mrs. Dudley glides up the stairs.  Nell follows, hoisting her

suitcase after her.  It appears the mezzanine ahead leads to a

hallway.  But as we draw closer what we thought was a hallway is an

ENORMOUS OIL PAINTING.  In it stands a man, his features lost in

the shadows above, only his body visible.

The nameplate reads HUGH CRAIN.

Nell looks up: Mrs. Dudley waits coldly at the top of the stairs.

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY, NORTH WING - DAY

Mrs. Dudley leads Nell down a curved hallway, over aged Persian

carpets and turns to a door on her left.  She throws it open,

stands back.  Nell enters.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - DAY

Nell lowers her suitcase.

The room is spacious, in a rococo gothic style with low-relief

woodwork on the walls rising to a dark, coffered, ceiling of carved

ivory.  A king-size bed, furniture, all in blue purple.  An open

door gives a glimpse of a bathroom.

A large fireplace dominates one wall.  Its mantle is carved with

the faces of children, happy, at play, alive.  Nell touches the

wood, loving.

Mrs. Dudley peers at her.  A beat.  And then, cryptic:

And with that Mrs. Dudley grins, rictus-like.  She turns and closes

the door after her.

Nell stands there a long moment, the room silent, heavy, old.  She

goes to the windows, peers out.  Nothing but forest for miles.

Nell removes her windbreaker, opens her suitcase, takes out a

blouse and skirt.  Decent enough clothes, but cheap, the tags still

on them.

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY, NORTH WING - DAY

Nell emerges from her room in her new clothes.  The hallway curves

away into the distance, lined with massive, ornate doorframes like

the one to her room.

Trying to get a better look, Nell searches the walls for a light

switch, but can't find one.  She follows the chair rail back to --

INT. MEZZANINE - SUNSET (CONTINUOUS)

-- the mezzanine at the top of the stairs.  She searches in vain

for a light switch there.  Finally she spots a set of curtains and

slings them open.

The light, late-day though it is, makes her wince.  The window

looks down on the driveway.  Outside a BEIGE CAR crunches over the

gravel.  Somebody else has arrived.

Nell watches the car move past, trying to get a glimpse of the

driver, but from up here, all she can see is roof.

She backs away from the window, spins around --

-- and out of the darkness, powerful, mad, looms the visage of Hugh

Crain.  It is the painting.  It is only from up here on the second

floor with this curtain open that the FACE is visible in the late-

day sunlight.

Despite the artist's discretion, the lines in the man's skin, his

eyes, his posture, cry of unspeakable sickness.

Unconsciously, Nell takes a step back.  In the far b.g., near the

end of one of the halls, a DOOR stands open, the second or third

set of doors in the Gothic Hallway left of the painting.  Just as

it starts to come into view, and we're starting to see it, it

swings silently shut.

But Nell has caught the movement out of the corner of her eye.

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY, NORTH WING - DAY

Nell stares down the long hallway.  Which door was it?

No response.  She starts down the hall, slow at first, then faster.

She passes door after door, shadow after shadow, and as she nears

the end of the hall... there is no door here.  Not within 20 feet

of, where we thought we just saw it.

A WHISPER.  VOICES.  Nell backs away.  And then LAUGHTER.  Behind

her.  It's coming from another stairwell.  Very real... and very

human.

INT. BACK STAIRWAY - DAY

Nell looks down from the top of the stairs.  Below Mrs. Dudley and

a pile of designer luggage.  Theo peers up.  She's dark, sexy in an

amused, worldly way: someone who has seen and done it all.

Theo foists a very heavy bag off on Mrs. Dudley who looks like she's

been handed a snake.  That makes Nell smile.  She comes running down

to help with the bags.

Theo is a little thrown by Nell's gushing.

Theo looks her over... and understands.  Nell is desperate to be

liked.

Mrs. Dudley, walking ahead, looks back at them.  Then continues up.

Theo makes a face at Mrs. Dudley's back.  Nell smiles, a little.

INT. THEO'S ROOM - DAY

Mrs. Dudley opens the door, letting Theo and Nell into a large

bedroom, a mirror-image twin of Nell's room, except it's decorated

in rich red-orange velvets.

She dumps her stuff on the floor, grabs a banister on the four-

poster bed, swings cat-like onto its high mattress.

Mrs. Dudley lays Theo's suitcase on a luggage stand.

Theo, back to Mrs.  Dudley, rolls her eyes at Nell.

Mrs. Dudley looks up at Nell who mimics her scary smile.

Mrs. Dudley smiles at Nell, but it's softer than before.

Theo leans on the bed, musing at the exchange.  And then Mrs. Dudley

backs out of the room, shuts the door.

Theo has an interesting eye on Nell, she's studying her.

Theo pops a dress bag on the bed, unzips it.  Theo takes off her

coat, and is only wearing a black bra underneath.  Nell reacts,

turns away.  Back to the camera, Theo flicks off her bra, stretches.

Nell peeks, sees Theo is decent, turns around.

Theo comes over, straightens Nell's seams; this is an intimate,

forward gesture.

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY - DUSK

The long hall is lost in shadow, its long rows of doors waiting in

the deadening silence.  A lamp on a pier table casts a small pool of

light.  The walls glow in rich tones, the low-relief carvings a

worm's-wood of shadow.

Nell runs her hand over a wall panel as Theo peeks into a

neighboring room.

Theo starts down the hall.  Nell follows.

INT. RED PARLOR - DUSK

Nell and Theo enter a room just off the landing, a lavish parlor

with the omnipresent panelled walls, lush red carpet, velvet

curtains sweeping floor to ceiling, heavy pieces of furniture.  Nell

watches Theo explore.  As Theo moves through the room, Nell's eye

lands on another painting of Hugh Crain.  Inside it's ornate golden

framework, distinctive little cherubs are embedded.  Cherubs of

Death... She runs her fingers over it.

Theo twirls out of the room, Nell, anxious, behind her.

INT. MEZZANINE - DUSK

As they come out of Crain's study Theo stops at the top of the

stairs, Nell behind her.

They stare out at Hugh Crain, the cracking and shadowing of the

swirls of oil that compose his face.  The figure is daunting, but

dead.  Just a painting.  Four different hallways lead into the

mezzanine, all dark and endless in the stray light.

Theo walks out, swings around.

Nell looks from one to another.  She doesn't want to.  But she

forces a smile and points to one on the left.  They both disappear

into the dark gothic hallway.

INT. SMALL PARLOR (CONFUSING ROOMS) - DUSK

Theo breezes into a small parlor with heavy green velvet curtains,

panelled walls, rich settees.  Other doors lead off the room.  Nell

follows.

Theo goes running for another door and is out.

Nell, realizing she's being left behind, springs after her into

another mysterious hallway --

INT. STATUARY HALL - DUSK (CONTINUOUS)

-- into a wide hall lined with niches and classical statuary.  Theo

strides down it pointing left and right, bending over, straddling

the pieces, provocative:

Nell laughs -- appalled and loving every minute of it.

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - DUSK (CONTINUOUS)

Through a narrow passageway, and large double doors they suddenly

stand at the threshold of a fantastic ballroom lined with mirrors

and chandeliers.  Rows of mirror-coated octagonal pillars, rise to a

vaulted, mirrored ceiling far above.  With the door opening, there's

a CLICK, and a mechanism of some sort is activated.  The FLOOR

begins to MOVE like a slow turntable.

Theo comes right up, looks over Nell's shoulder.  Nell steps out.

She traipses out across the room, her million reflections waltzing

with her into infinity.  Theo dances after her.  They dance, not

quite together.  Nell stops and pronounces:

Nell blushes... and they burst out laughing.  They take off running,

their reflections with them, stampeding for an archway on the far

side of the room and out --

INT. 1ST FLOOR HALLS (VARIOUS) - DUSK (CONTINUOUS)

-- into yet another hallway.  They race down the hall, turn into

another hall, then another, all dimly lit by the very last rays of

day, all furnished in the House's dark, impossibly complicated,

impossibly ornate fashion.  As they go, the mood is growing darker,

the women unaware that they are getting lost.

They open a door to --

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - DUSK (CONTINUOUS)

They stand at the end of a long hallway to one of the House's

forgotten outlying wings.  It is dark.  Too dark.  Nell and Theo

regard the darkness.

At the far end of the hall stand a pair of MAHOGANY DOORS, closed,

almost black, oily-looking.  Surrounding them, an enormously complex

geometrical frieze.

The doors themselves are plain.  In their simplicity there is

something about them enormously disturbing.  It is as if the doors

are looking back at them, Nell goes cold.  Theo holds herself.

Theo nods.  They turn around, Theo opening what she thinks was the

door they came through.

INT. NARROW STAIRCASE - DUSK

They hurry down a narrow staircase, Theo first, Nell right behind.

They fly down a set of steps, Theo flings open a final door -- and

SCREAMS!

INT. GRAND ENTRY - NIGHT

The Grand Entry, where they bump into LUKE SANDERSON, 20's, charming

and cynical.

She won't answer.

Marrow comes in the front door.  He looks at the house like

MacArthur studying a beachhead.

And Mary enters.  Crossing the threshold, she catches her breath,

and when she comes into the hall and sees everyone, she also sees

the house in its detail.  And she has a bad feeling.

Marrow is still putting everyone at ease.

His smile is devastating.  Nell reddens, instantly taken by Marrow's

warmth, observant sensitivity.

For a long moment they stand there, silent, looking at each other --

polite smiles, but awkward, even Marrow.  One by one they all look

to him for a cue.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Marrow leads the way across the hall.  The others check out the

furnishings as they pass.

Mary is shaken by the house, but she's honoring Marrow's request.

Everywhere she looks, she feels the presence of something.

They exit the hall, Mary and Nell last, and as they do, Nell sees

Mary's strange look.  She stops.

And suddenly awkward, Mary exits after the others.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

A chandelier hangs unlit over a long dining table.  LAUGHTER.  At

the end Nell and the others sprawl over the remains of a dinner

which has been going on for hours.  Luke is opening another bottle

of jug wine.

Theo twirls her wine glass, licks the dregs inside the rim,

thinking.

Nell isn't used to people being so direct and at the same time,

playful.  She glances at Marrow's LEFT HAND: NO WEDDING RING.

Nell hears this, Nell is tuned into Mary.

Nell wishes she could hide under her plate.

There's laughter.

Silence.  The others are embarrassed by her sincerity.  She's right,

Nell is not of their world.

He says this with enough sympathy for Theo to see his interest in

the girl in the thrift shop dress.

INT. RED PARLOR - NIGHT

The HARP sings out, lively, expertly played by Mary.  Theo, Luke,

Todd and Nell are impressed with her skill.

She plays, and as she does, she's aware of the room, and the house,

and she sees something in a curtain or the fireplace, or a window,

something at the edge of perception.  She suddenly stops.

She finds a key and begins TIGHTENING the strings -- as Marrow bangs

open the door, briefcase in one hand, CELL PHONE in the other.  He

can't conceal his irritation.  Marrow removes folders from his

briefcase, passes them around while she plays.  Nell again studies

the Cherub of Death on the spine of the leather bound books.

That was a little abrupt, she feels it.  Everybody finds a chair or

spot on the sofa.  Mary remains on the stool by the harp.  Marrow

sits in a large winged-back chair.

Nell and Theo are looking through their folders: sheets of paper,

bizarre geometric puzzles.

The others shuffle through papers, Nell and Todd intent on them,

Theo interested but not overly so, Luke, bored.

When she says this, we should be seeing her from an odd perspective,

the house's POV.

Nell shifts, looks at the house with a strange feeling.

This has been tense between them, a gunfight.  POP!  A LOG in the

fireplace makes everyone jump.  Theo relishes it, but Nell shudders.

Mary plays, channeling unholy music from the house, from the walls,

from the curtain, from the air.  Her fingers fly down the harp to

the THICKEST WIRE and --

-- TANG!  Like a steel whip the wire SNAPS.

Mary SCREAMS in pain.

The others leap up in shock.  Blood lines the wall behind her.  She

clutches at her eye, more blood spilling out from between her

fingers.

Marrow and Theo rush over to her as she shrieks in pain.

Todd is frozen, pale, like he's about to be sick.  Nell turns the

OTHER WAY, but not because she's scared -- she's searching for a

shot glass on a side table.

Marrow wraps Mary in his arms.  Her shrieking becomes a terrified

but quieter wail.

Nell appears by his side with the glass.  Marrow pries Mary's hand

from her face.

Blood flows freely from the eyelid, but her eye is intact.

EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY - NIGHT

Marrow slams the door on the passenger side of Todd's car.  Mary

sits there, moaning, glass covering her eye, blood spilling out

around the edges.  Luke is on her side of the car.

Todd opens his door.  Marrow hands him a key.

Todd takes it, jumps in.  The two men watch the car drive away.

As they turn back, Marrow taps Luke.

That was half a joke, and both men smile.  Now they're bonded.

They go in.  The house is outlined by the sky and clouds and the

moon.

INT. MEZZANINE - NIGHT

Luke catches up with Nell and Theo as he reaches the mezzanine.  The

painting of Hugh Crain, barely visible in the shadows, looms right

behind.

He heads off.  Theo turns to find Nell staring at the animal heads

on the stairs.  Theo touches her.  She starts.

INT. MARROW'S BEDROOM (PART OF CONFUSING ROOMS) - NIGHT

Marrow, sitting at a desk, speaks into a digital voice recorder.

His voice is cold, analytical.

He turns off the machine, and then he says, ruefully:

He turns off the light.  The shadows in the room are too much for

him. He turns the light on, and then pulls the blanket over his

head.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell finishes putting things away in drawers.  Theo watches, leaning

in the doorway.  Nell looks around at the room: and this is her new

family's new home.  Theo smiles sweetly at her, comes over.  An

awkward moment, as the seriousness drains away.

Theo reaches for Nell's hair.  Nell pulls away.  Theo pauses.  Nell

realizes she shouldn't have pulled back.

She moves closer to let Theo examine her hair.  Theo takes Nell's

hair, holds it up in a French twist.

Cautiously, Nell peers in a mirror at herself... and likes what she

sees.  Theo lets Nell's hair drop.  Theo moves for the door.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

As Nell steps OUT OF FRAME and starts undressing, the CAMERA finds

the carved mantle, the densely-packed scene of children at play,

their faces frozen in dark wooden smiles, their eyes blind but

staring OC where we sense Nell changing.

Now in a long tee-shirt, Nell crawls up onto the high bed.  Its

headboard is heavy, dark, engraved with fan-like shapes, maybe

plants.

She draws the covers about her and peers up at the ornate headboard.

Something about it bothers Nell, but she can't put her finger on it.

She twists over on her side and turns out the light on the

nightstand. For a moment, all there is in the darkness is her

breathing --

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

-- then almost silence.  We pull back from the CHILDREN'S FACES on

the doors of the Great Hall to reveal the vast room standing in

darkness.  Covens of strange shapes consort in the shadows, things

that in the day would be lamps, the stuff of life.  But now, at the

very deepest limit of human hearing, it is as if SOMETHING EXHALES.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - NIGHT

It is black at the top of the stairs.  The carved animal heads on

the balusters are all turned UP THE STAIRWAY, eyes starting in fear.

Waiting for something to walk down out of that blackness.

INT. HALL OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT

Eyes.  Eyes of all the mythological figures.  STARING down the long,

black hallway.  Awaiting something.  Afraid.

At the end of the hallway, where all eyes are staring, the double

doors, the ones that scared Nell and Theo stand shut.

That something gathering at the edge of our hearing RISES.  Rises as

if the House itself is breathing.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

BUMP.  The sound thuds the stillness of the House.  Bump.  Bump.

Bump.  Deep, hollow, distant like a dream.  Nell sits up, still

asleep, body moving by reflex.

WHUMP.  The noise jars her consciousness, lighting up her mind, VERY

REAL.  Nell remembers where she is.

Bump bang.  It's coming from somewhere far off in the House.  Nell

listens in cold dread.

Nell spins to the bathroom door, goes through --

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- the unlit bathroom, slamming the door to her room behind her,

across and out the other door --

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- into Theo's room.  THUMP BUMP BUMP.  Nell finds Theo right in

front of her, hair wet, kneeling in the bed, clutching her covers to

herself.

The sound grows nearer.  Out in the hall.  Like something searching.

Coming toward them.

Nell lunges at the door.  Theo grabs to stop her, and Nell sees the

door is DEADBOLTED.  There's a RUSHING sound on the other side of

the tall door.  Right there.  Nell freezes.  BUMP!  BUMP!

Nell recoils to Theo's side, drags Theo out of bed to the corner of

the room.

Nell and Theo stare out AT US in terror.  BUMP.  BUMP.  BUMP.  BUMP.

Nell and Theo's eyes travel over the walls, following whatever it is

which now seems to be

The SOUND moves along the wall to the right, reaching its loudest as

it crosses the back of the theater, then seems to come down the left

side.

Theo shivers.  Nell clutches her close.  Nell writhes, unable to

stand it any longer.  She jumps up.

Nell charges the door, screaming:

SILENCE.  The bumping goes dead.  Nell blinks, looks back at Theo.

But Theo is looking at her hands.

She looks up in horror at Nell.  Their breath FOGS in the air.  Nell

holds her hand up in front of her, and as we watch HER HAIR PRICKLES

UP, GOOSEBUMPS WITH THEM.

Her eyes turn up to the door, and: BAMBABAMBAM BABBA BAM!  The DOOR

JARS in its frame, leaping from the blows of whatever's on the other

side.

Nell backpedals but slips on the rug, falls there on the floor right

in front of the door.  Theo SCREAMS.

Silence.  The BANGING stops.  With a RUSH, whatever is outside the

door is no longer there.

Nell looks at Theo.

Then Theo looks at the bathroom.

Nell starts for it, grabs Theo's door, but it's designed to be

locked from the BATHROOM SIDE.  Nell looks up --

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- and takes a step into the pitch-dark bathroom.  Theo appears in

the doorway behind her.  Across the bathroom the door to Nell's room

is closed.  Nell dashes for it --

-- but A SUDDEN SCUTTLING SOUND stops her dead.  On the other side

of the door.  Rasping over wood.  Like a thing without hands trying

to turn --

-- THE DOORKNOB.  A long beat.  The metal creaks as something takes

hold of it on the other side.

Nell, mouth open in cold horror, sees the deadbolt.  It's open.

She's in no-man's land: too far from the door to lock it, too close

to run.

The doorknob TURNS, but just as the door starts to open NELL FLAILS

FORWARD AND SHOOTS THE DEADBOLT HOME.

The door jams against it.  Nell jumps back.  Theo grabs her back

into --

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- her bedroom and slams the door.  A long, deadly silent moment.

But their BREATH no longer fogs.  Theo seems to notice the fact just

as Nell starts for her room and... KNOCK KNOCK KNOCK.  Behind them.

At the door to the hall.

She grabs for the door and lets Luke in.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell's room stands silent, dark.  The door to the bathroom is shut.

The lock slides open.  The door swings in.  Luke stands there, the

two women behind him.

Luke turns on the lights.  The room is perfectly ordinary, no sign

that anything has been in here.  The door to the hall is shut.  Nell

reacts.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Nell and Theo, wrapped in blankets, sit over mugs of tea at the

kitchen table.  Marrow, across from them, clicks off his digital

recorder.  Luke paces behind the women.

Marrow takes his glasses off.  Luke looks at him, then goes to the

kitchen sink.  He turns both faucets on full blast and leans up

against the sink, arms folded.  Theo and Nell turn to look at him.

A beat.  And then:

BUMP.  Bump bump.  It's the sound.  Luke goes over to the door,

pushes it open.

INT. GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

VARIOUS SHOTS as the bumping seems to travel down the hallway.  A

rushing sound with it.  They're the same sounds, from the scene

before, but somehow have none of the impact, none of the presence as

they did in Theo's bedroom.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Luke lets the door shut, turns off the faucet.  The sounds of the

plumbing die away.

Luke leaves the kitchen.  Theo and Nell watch him go.

Marrow watches the exchange closely.

Theo and Nell look at each other in frustration.  But Theo tries to

get her mind around the question.

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT

The room is a lot less frightening now, especially with the lights

on.  Nell sits on Theo's bed.  Theo looks at the walls, silent,

normal.

When Nell doesn't respond for a moment, Theo turns to her, sees her

wrestling with herself.

Theo shakes her head, brushes at her eyes.  The confession, on the

top of the fright, has moved her deeply.

It's such a horrible thought it makes Nell smile, and they share a

tearful laugh.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Nell stands in the door to her room.

Nell shuts the door.  Theo is about to close her door, but

hesitates.  She puts on the light and goes to the tub.  She turns it

on, waits.  Just the sound of the water.  And no bumping.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell lies asleep under her sheet, the blankets off the end of the

bed.  HOVERING OVER HER, on the headboard, the carved faces of

children, peering DOWN.

FLAP.  FLAP flap.  The fan-light at the top of the window right next

to the bed is OPEN a crack.  The sheer curtains flap listlessly in a

gentle breeze.  The flapping grows louder, and with a sudden gust

the curtain BILLOWS OUT.  In its flowing form, we sense the SHAPE OF

A GIRL'S FACE, fleeting, so insubstantial we know we just saw her,

but maybe our eyes are playing tricks on us.

The CURTAIN blows straight out, touching the bedposts at the foot of

the bed, and there the wind catches the fabric hanging from them.

The Wind seem to sneak under the bedcover and the shape follows...

Nell sleeps, oblivious, the WIND filling the room, stirring the

tinkling crystal beads on the candelabra.  The shape of the little

girl's face now travels underneath the bedsheets toward the pillows,

toward Nell.

Nell turns, restless, the AIR catches the edge of the pillowcase,

and travels towards Nell's face.  And for a split second there is a

lifelike IMPRESSION OF A SMALL GIRL'S FACE.  Nell almost awakens.

The crystal beads stir, and in their tinkling, in the sigh of wind,

we hear:

Nell's eyes open.  And like that, the pillowcase deflates, the air

rushes up the curtain to the window, and is gone.

Nell sits up, looks about her.  Everything seems normal.  Just her

sheets, just the curtains, but on the headboard remain the carved

faces.  Benevolent.  Nell settles back down on her pillow with a

sense of peace.

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

Morning sun filters in through heavy drapes, falling on Marrow at

the dining table.  Nell squeezes behind him and the sideboard behind

him to get at the coffee.  Nell wears MAKE UP, badly applied, and

her HAIR IS UP in a French twist.

Nell smiles.  Theo walks in the door, sees Nell and Marrow, Nell

squeezed in behind him.

Theo is aware of Marrow's curiosity and fascination with Nell.

There's a jealousy brewing.

Luke comes in behind Theo, tired-looking also.  He goes to the

sideboard, starts helping himself to breakfast.

Marrow slept badly, we can see it in his eyes.

But she means exactly the opposite.  Marrow looks over Nell's hair,

but she can't stand it.  Luke comes over to the table, drops into a

chair next to Nell, digs into breakfast.  Theo's face turns into an

artificial smile.

Nell sits there flustered.  Marrow senses the jealousy, isn't quite

sure what to make of it, and intervenes.

INT. GREAT HALL - DAY

CLOSE ON the complex PUZZLE of a field-cognition test.  Nell

scratches solutions, erases, and finally looks up in frustration.

She sits alone, tiny, in the murk of the vast vaulted Great Hall.

The enormous chimney occupies half the wall on one side of the room.

Clusters of furniture -- overwrought chairs with animal heads,

splay-footed coffee tables, limbed lamps -- huddle in strange,

silent covens throughout.  Nell, in a plush chair, lays the work on

a table beside her.  The CLATTER of stone on stone makes Nell look

up.

The fireplace looms just beyond her cluster of chairs, large enough

for a man to stand in.  A piece of mortar must have come loose.

Nell stares at the chimney.  And a VOICE lets out a loud groan.

Nell JUMPS.  She pops out of the chair.  It came from another circle

of furniture in the shadows.  A figure stands and comes over.  It's

Luke, stretching.

He puts his hand on a CHAIR, the back of which is heavily carved in

the motif he just described.

Nell turns him an appalled look.

Nell looks at the test, tries to digest this.

Luke just smiles, rises.  We'll see.

He walks off, his footsteps echoing in the vast room.  The door

shuts after him.

Nell sags in her chair.  Then something catches her eye.  On a table

opposite, a SET OF KEYS.  Nell goes, picks them up.  Car keys, house

keys.  Must be Luke's.  She pockets them, thoughtful, but just as

she does --

-- something MOVES in the fireplace.  So fleeting Nell can barely

see it, and we only catch a frame of it.  But the iron MESH CURTAIN

hanging in front of the hearth is STILL SWAYING.

Nell stands there FROZEN.  The massive fireplace LOOMS before her,

like a monstrous mouth, black as pitch beyond the black metal

curtains.

The swaying metal scrapes over brick floor.  Its eerie, repetitive

screep cutting to the nerve.

Nell sits paralyzed, rooted to the chair.  SCREEP.  SCREEP.  SCREEP.

A SINGLE STRAND of NELL'S HAIR stirs toward the fireplace, and --

-- SOMETHING INSIDE THE FIREPLACE MOVES BEHIND THE MESH!

Nell CRASHES back over her chair, knocking over a lamp and table,

tripping, stumbling out of the furniture.

Holy shit.  Whatever moved in there was real.  Big, dark, like

something's head.  It goes out of focus and we can't see it as we

follow --

-- NELL flying away, across the room in headlong terror.

INT. FOYER - DAY

Nell slams out of the room, skidding as the door slams behind her.

She sways up off the floor to run --

-- right into Marrow and Theo's legs.  Nell aborts a scream,

realizing who it is.  Theo stands there in surprise, holding papers

in her hand.

INT. GREAT HALL - DAY

Nell and Theo stand behind Marrow and Luke across from the

fireplace.  Theo glances at Nell.  Nell is shaken.

Marrow nods to Luke, and they start forward together, Marrow among

the furniture to the left, Luke down the right side.

The iron screens hang silent in the fireplace, black, impenetrable.

Marrow and Luke come up on either side, Luke ducking this way and

that trying to get a glimpse through the mesh.

They stop before it, neither breathing, both listening.  Marrow

steps forward and pulls one screen aside far enough to look in.

DARKNESS.

Nell and Theo watch, apprehensive.

Marrow sticks his head into the fireplace.  For a long moment,

nothing happens.

IN THE FIREPLACE: pitch darkness.  Marrow feels up the chimney.

AND THEN SOMETHING SWINGS DOWN RIGHT IN FRONT OF HIS FACE!  Marrow

doesn't flinch.

He FLINGS back the screen, revealing the only things in the

fireplace: two massive andirons, and the still-swinging FLUE.  It's

cast-iron, forged in the shape of a LION'S HEAD.

Luke throws back the other screen.  Theo comes over.  Nell follows.

There's nothing else in the fireplace.

Luke and Theo stare at Nell.  Marrow squats to study the hearth.

The large iron ASH-DROP is coated in soot.

Not a mark on it.  He opens it.  Inside, a glimpse of ASHES and

CHARRED WOOD.  Marrow stands, looks at Nell.

Marrow looks at her, not sure what to believe.  Nell turns to Luke

and Theo for help.  Not from that corner.  Then Nell remembers,

reaches into her pocket and produces the KEYS.  She holds them up to

Luke.

Theo shakes her head.  They aren't Marrow's.  Marrow takes the keys

from Nell, turns them over.

EXT. HILL HOUSE - DAY

They stand on the front steps.  Nell's car is right there under the

car port.

Theo gestures to a sports car on the circular drive.  Two other cars

are with it.  They walk out into the driveway.

EXT. CARRIAGE HOUSE - DAY

Together they approach a stable/carriage house off to one side of

the main House.  It looks old, unused.  They enter through a small

door.

INT. CARRIAGE HOUSE - DAY

Light filters in through gaps in the wood.  Luke opens one of the

main doors with a loud SQUEAK, the sun revealing a TARP-COVERED

SHAPE, a carriage.  Unused in a hundred years.  A row of tarp-

covered carriages fill the stalls into the distance.

As they leave, the CAMERA LINGERS on a covered shape in one of the

stalls, SMALLER than the other carriages, it could be a car.  A

broken wagon wheel leaning against it.

INT. STATUARY HALL AND SHORT MONTAGE THROUGH HOUSE - DAY

Marrow, Theo and Luke move down the hall, opening doors left and

right as Nell stands at the center of it all.

No answer.  The statuary peers down on Nell.  Dead faces on busts.

Blind marble eyes.

INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY

Luke calls out.

INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY

Marrow is looking for him, too.

INT. VARIOUS ROOMS AND HALLS - DAY

Nell and Theo, walking into rooms.

INT. KITCHEN - DAY

Marrow comes through the kitchen.  Mrs. Dudley, chopping carrots,

stands by the counter.  Only the slightest pause in the rhythm of

her chopping says she's noticed him.

Frustrated, he continues on.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - DAY

Nell and Theo walk down the long hallway behind, opening doors,

checking rooms.

Nell closes a door on the right, and then stops dead.  Staring.

The shut, dark, door, the one that scared Nell and Theo earlier,

awaits them at the end.  Ominous.

Nell approaches.  Closer and closer.  The door nears.

Nell wraps her arms tightly about herself and try's to open the

door.  It's locked.  Her BREATH FOGS THE AIR.  She doesn't notice

it.  But then she suddenly GAGS.  With a look of horror she recoils

from the door, choking, covering her face.

Then Theo smells it.  The women are both sick from the smell.

Marrow comes into the hallway.  He sees them from a distance.

ON the two women.

Theo blanches, looks at Nell.  She smells it too, and in mirror

image fashion backs away from the doors also.  Marrow notices the

exchange, and watches them, intense.  And then, in a heartbeat, the

moment is over.

EXT. VERANDA - DAY

The RED LIGHT on Marrow's DIGITAL VOICE RECORDER blinks.  The device

is in Marrow's jacket pocket, CONCEALED from Nell.  They're sitting

in Adirondack chairs on the long veranda behind the House.  Marrow,

beside her, observes.

Marrow thinks about this.

Nell looks to him.  He's sincere.  He believes her.

"Didn't" she almost says.  She struggles, embarrassed.

Marrow settles in his chair, looks out at the forest.

Nell peers at him, doubtful.  Is she being made fun of?

Nell's face flushes with compassion.  With longing.  Marrow looks at

her.  He's vulnerable.  Needing.  She doesn't dare hope.  The moment

lasts a few heartbeats.

He looks away.  A flicker of distress crosses Nell's face.  And then

she realizes Marrow is looking at --

-- Luke.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - DAY

Luke, Nell and Marrow mount the stairs, climb up and up.  They find

Theo in the mezzanine staring at the wall at the painting.  She

turns and looks at Nell strangely.

Nell, confused, turns around.  On the wall and the painting are dark

stains.  Black.  Blue.  Runny.  Almost like something leaking from

the roof has run down.

Nell steps back.  The stains are the letters N and O.  Pulling back

farther: the rest of the word ELEANOR.

She follows the streaking substance up, blinking in rising fear as

more running letters appear.  The word: WELCOME.  And higher up, the

last: HOME.

But the substance doesn't come from the ceiling.

It is as if the oils on the PAINTING OF HUGH CRAIN have been boiled

by a heat gun and blasted off, running down from there.  Hugh's face

is gone.  In place of the face, the underlying ivory of the canvas

glares out... like a skull.

Nell SCREAMS and runs away, the others calling out after her in

alarm.  As they vanish around the corner, the camera tilts down and

we discover smeared paint on the floor.  Smeared, it seems, WITH

LITTLE FOOTPRINTS in it.

INT. RED PARLOR - DAY

Nell, panic rising in her voice, confronts the others.

She looks at all three of them.

Luke shakes his head.  Theo starts getting pissed.  Marrow stands

there, arms folded, observing.

This is horrifying to Nell, being doubted and accused of something

so ugly if it were true.

And she runs out.

Nell grabs for the door to leave.

She flings open the door.  MONSTROUS arms seem to grab at her.  But

it's only a wild-looking coat rack in the hall.

EXT. 2ND FLOOR BALCONY - DAY

Nell stands at the railing of a stone balcony on the house's second

floor.  The air stirs her hair.  She peers up at the House's

roofline, its clusters of misplaced windows and other features like

so many screaming heads.

Chilled, she pulls her sweater closer.  Marrow comes out onto the

balcony from twin French doors behind her.

She smiles.

INT. GREENHOUSE - DAY

Marrow lets Nell into a long, Victorian-era GREENHOUSE.  It's

overgrown, lush, the leaded-glass panes above stained with years of

condensation and pollen.  Vines and trees climb up the sides.  Beds

of flowers and plants line narrow footpaths of brick.

Nell leans down to look into a WATER GARDEN with a STATUE OF A MAN

bursting from the surface, grasping for the air as if he had been

drowning.  A sudden rumble runs throughout the greenhouse.  And A

CAVALCADE of water comes out of the STATUE'S mouth surprising Nell.

She lets out a little yelp, and then laughs with Marrow.

Nell loves the greenhouse.  It takes her breath away.

Nell makes her way among the plants.  She looks up at a TOWERING,

DOUBLE-HELIX STAIRCASE which rises from the floor to a platform

which gives access to the roof.  Below the staircase are planters

filled with violets.

And then, out of the corners, comes Mister Dudley.

And off he goes.

Nell looks up, and smiles.

Marrow watches her as she moves about, takes a heavy, ripe bloom in

hand, lifts it to her face.  While she talks, she walks, and Marrow

follows.

For the first time since we've seen Nell, there is something to her

which is simply... erotic.  Marrow follows her down one of the

footpaths.  She smiles back at Marrow as he trails her.  She reaches

a transept in the greenhouse, and as she turns down it, there's the

slightest sway to her gait.  Marrow follows her around the corner

into the transept.  At the far end the wall is completely overgrown.

Nell looks up through the ceiling at Hill House looming grim

outside, distorted in the old glass.

Nell glances at him, and for that split second she is raw,

passionate woman.  She walks away, the sway in her gait aching,

powerful.  Marrow is surprised by what Nell just said and stares at

her as she comes to the overgrown end.  Nell reaches out to the

hanging vines, pulls them aside...

...and A FACE stares out.  Gastly.  White.  Nell takes an

involuntary step back, a little gasp.

The face is marble.  Blind eyes stare from stained cheeks.  It is a

STATUE OF CRAIN.  Marrow comes over.

It's an enormous stone tableaux of Hugh surrounded by cherubim.  The

plants have attacked it as if trying to wipe its funerary presence

from the greenhouse.

She laughs a little at herself.  Marrow joins in.  He helps her pull

the plants back to reveal more of it.

She reaches out, touches the marble cheek.  Then daring, grins, and

begins to hum her TUNE.

Marrow steps back to watch her do a sensual slow-dance with Hugh

Crain, pirouetting, her hips sliding past... hypnotizing Marrow.

She hums another two notes, and BANG!  The door behind her SLAMS

OPEN in a gust of wind, jolting Nell.  She stops and stares.

Outside the window, through the glass, she sees Mr. Dudley, staring

at her, he's been watching her dance.  The spell is broken.  Nell,

embarrassed, can't bear to look at him.

A beat, and then Marrow goes over and shuts the door.  When he turns

back --

-- Nell is just vanishing around the corner, her rapid footsteps

echoing in the vaulted room.

EXT. REAR LAWN - DAY

Nell hurries away from the House, across the rear lawn, ashamed at

herself as much as she is spooked.

In the distance Mr. Dudley is walking toward the House with cans of

paint cleaner an a ladder.  Nell stops, watching him.  He senses

her, pauses, and smiles.

Nell reacts.  Sees the ladder.  Then Mr. Dudley disappears into the

House.

Nell once again starts to hurry away, but looking back over her

shoulder, almost impales herself on the rusted iron fence of --

EXT. FAMILY CEMETERY - DAY (CONTINUOUS)

-- the tiny Crain family cemetery.  Nell catches herself.  A small

swinging gate bars the way.  She hesitates.

Nine moss-covered headstones show the wear of a long century.  Eight

small headstones, one large one.  A half dozen unmarked stones in

the grass: stillbirths.

Nell is drawn into the graveyard.  The large stone is RENE CRAIN'S.

The smaller ones are her children's.

Nell's heart is breaking as she moves among them: the various names.

One reads ADAM CRAIN APRIL 5th 1874 -- ... The rest of the date is

covered by growth.  She clears it away.  April 6th, 1874.

There is an EPITAPH, almost wiped out by lichens.  Nell kneels to

read it.

Nell, disturbed but not knowing what to make of it, rises from the

gravestone, turns to the next.  ELISA CRAIN AUGUST 21ST, 1878 -- She

clears it away: August 21, 1878.  The blasphemous epitaph here:

Nell is shaken, and dreading what she will find next, whirls to the

one behind her: WENDY CRAIN JANUARY 1 , 1880 -- She clears it away

-- January 1, 1880.  And its graven commandment, so familiar, so

comforting, now rings with terrible, malevolent promise:

There are three more grave stones, and after clearing away the

brush, they too show that the babies died after a few hours, or a

day.  There's the same symbol on the graves of the children, a

cherub of death.  We've seen this image before.  Nell backs out of

the cemetery, afraid.

INT. MEZZANINE - DAY

Nell hurries down the mezzanine to the doorway which leads to the

Red Parlor.

INT. RED PARLOR - DAY

She stands there a beat staring in at the volumes upon volumes of

books.  Nell is unsure of what she's looking for.  She looks at

Crain's painting and recognizes the same Cherubs inside the ornate

frame.  The background in the painting IS THE RED PARLOR.  Then

recognizes in the painting an OPEN BOOKCASE BEHIND CRAIN.

Intuitively, she turns toward the same bookcase across from her and

is able to push it open.  Inside a small stairwell...

INT. CRAIN'S SECRET STUDY - DAY

Down the circular stairs Nell enters a very small dusty room.

Velvet curtains drawn shut, only a sliver of sunlight showing

through.  As her eyes adjust, she makes out the furnishings of a

late-nineteenth century office, Crain's secret office.

The bookcases filled with business ledgers.  The business ledgers

are stamped with the cherub of death.

At the end is an enormous desk.  Behind it a massive, carved chair

covered with a sheet, only its lion-head arm rests protruding from

underneath.  Nell realizes it's:

She moves for the desk.  An ENORMOUS MIRROR, its silver inner

surface flaking with age, tarnished, reflects the room, the desk,

and FOR A SPLIT SECOND, A SHADOW IN THE CHAIR.  Nell steps in front

of it, blocking our view.

And when she steps past, there is only the dim, flaking image of the

chair, the natural shadow of the room.

Nell goes around the desk, stands over it.  The chair sits silent

behind her, shrouded.

On the desk sits a set of ledgers marked with mill names -- Lowell,

Haverhill, Manchester -- and years: 1884, '85 and so on.  She flips

one open.

THE LEDGER is a payroll account.  Names upon names of workers

rendered in sepia by Crain's severe cursive.  Notations in the

column beside it indicate man, woman, or child and the appropriate

wage for each class of worker.  Many of them, at least a third, are

children.

NELL reacts.  Disturbed by it.  She shifts closer to that damn chair

behind her.  The sheet hangs over it in such a way that someone

could be sitting there under it.

She turns the page.  Columns indicate pay, and so on.  But one

column, at the very center of the book, hidden in the binding, is

unlabeled. Down the column, some names have a line drawn through

them, and at the end of the line, a CROSS.

Nell follows them back, eyes searching across the ledger.

She turns the page, pushes the book down revealing that concealed

column, more crosses.  And more.  Her eyes flick back and forth.

The crosses are paired with entries for CHILD.  She looks their

names...

Nell turns the pages.  More and more crosses.  Dozens.  Scores.

Nell sinks down into Crain's chair and tears come to her eyes.  We

see the book.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - NIGHT

The painting is right there now.  The letters have been erased.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

We see the ledger, and pull back, and the ledger is in Nell's lap.

Nell sits on the bed in her sleeping tee-shirt and undies.  Theo

looks at the book with her.

Theo hands her the bottle.  Nell takes it, tops off her glass,

spilling.  Her face is red.  She grimaces as she tosses back a big

swallow.

Theo takes another swig.  She holds bottles of nail polish up next

to Nell's bare feet, testing the colors.

Nell finally puts the book down and takes a drink.

Theo smiles and takes Nell's foot gently in her hand.  She begins to

paint her toenails.

Nell looks down her long legs at Theo.

Nell shoots down the rest of the glass of wine.

Nell is thrilled with this.

Theo looks up, understands what she's asking.

Nell lies back, arms spread, lets the glass roll out of her hand.

Theo paints Nell's toenails one by one, carefully guiding the brush

strokes in along the skin.  Nell, unused to this, gives into the

pleasure, and Theo sees how easy it is to move Nell.

Theo looks up at her, unreadable.

Nell lets out a sigh.  Gently Theo's hand moves down the arch of

Nell's foot.  Caressing.  Nell lets her.

Theo finishes Nell's last little toe, and then with the brush out of

paint, runs it gently up the inside of Nell's calf.  Nell sighs.

Theo lowers her face near Nell's toes, licks her lips: soft, near,

red.  She blows.

Nell raises herself up, peers down at Theo.  Sees the want on her

face.  A long beat.

Nell breaks the gaze, looks away.  Theo reads Nell's look, and

releases her foot.  She sits back in the chair.  For a moment Nell

doesn't know what to do.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell closes the door and sits at the vanity brushing out her hair

for bed.  Her motions are languid in the light of the single small

lamp, off-balance with the wine.

Her HAIR brushes out in long, even strokes.  The brush moves through

it, lifting it and letting it fall.

IN THE MIRROR the brush draws through Nell's hair, but as it does,

the hair divides in its wake LIKE FINGERS RUNNING THROUGH it.

Nell freezes.  She's not sure what she just saw.  She runs the brush

through again, and again it is as if something pulls it back from

her head.

Again -- fast -- she runs the brush through her hair, and this time

the hair SPINS UP IN A KNOT.

Nell flinches, dropping the brush, knocking the shade of the lamp on

the vanity a-wobbling.

She's out of the chair in a flash, grabbing her own hair, staring at

the space behind her.  Nothing there.  A beat.

She steadies herself, feeling the alcohol.  Gets control.

The Tiffany lamp rocks back and forth, crystal beads shimmering.

The light plays across the fireplace and mantle on the wall.  And

something there catches her eye.

Nell feels her way across the room, not sure of what she's seeing.

Over the sound of the wind outside, there's something at the very

highest edge of hearing.

She stops five feet from the mantle.  The swaying light catches the

rich tones of wood.  Then darkens.  Illuminates it again.  Darkens.

The carvings of the playing CHILDREN in the wood SEEM TO MOVE.

Nell stares in drunken fascination.  And as the first fear begins to

rise in her throat, the wind dies down and in its place there is the

FAINTEST TRACE OF CHILDREN'S LAUGHTER.  Nell's reaction changes...

to awe.

Tentative, her hand goes out, shaking... and touches the mantle.

It is hard and still.  No movement whatsoever.  Silence.  But the

FACES engraved in the wood all seem to be peering up at her, hands

outstretched for her, hopeful.

EXT. HILL HOUSE GATES - NIGHT

The enormous LOCKED gates are silhouetted against the moonlit sky.

The chain is dangling in the wind.

EXT. HILL HOUSE - NIGHT

Hold on Nell's WINDOW, the light shining dim through the gauze

curtain.  It goes out.  The window stares from an arrangement of

other windows, stonework and doors... like an eye with a cataract in

a face howling in horror.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell, her breathing heavy, lies tangled in her heavy blankets,

asleep, but restless.  Her feet hang off the end of the bed.

In the b.g., the door to the bathroom is shut, barely visible in the

faint light from the window.  HOLD on it.

Silently, it begins to OPEN.  The gap WIDENS, yawning, pitch dark

beyond.  A long beat.  And then a THUMP.  A SLIDING SOUND.

Something drags itself across the floor.

BUMP.  SLIDE.  Our line of sight is blocked by the bed.  But the

sound is getting louder, coming closer.

Bump.  Slide.  Nell grinds her teeth in her sleep, pulls the

blankets about her tighter.  Bump.  The sound stops.  And her BREATH

BEGINS TO FOG.

Whatever has just come in the room is right there, hovering just OC.

We can feel it.

Without warning Nell BOLTS upright, GASPING into consciousness.

REVEAL: nothing.  Just the dark room.  And the bathroom door OPEN.

Nell stares at the-door, knows she shut it.  Now it's open.  She

breaths fast, feeling the cold, knowing something's in here with

her.

She stops breathing, strains her ears.  Silence.  A long moment.

Then she notices her feet, hanging out from under the covers.

They are black.  Feel slick.  Nell turns on the light by her bed and

looks down.

HER FEET ARE COVERED IN GORE.  Where Theo had been painting.  Nell

SCREAMS.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

SCREAMING, Nell spins the tub faucets on full blast, sticks her feet

into the spray.

Weeping, Nell scrubs the gore off her feet -- red, black like old

clotted blood.

The door to Theo's bedroom is shut.  The handle rattles, urgent, but

it won't open.  It's LOCKED.

The blood or whatever it is on Nell's feet comes off, is sucked down

the drain.

Nell, squatting in the tub, sobs as her feet come clean, and there

are NO WOUNDS.  Theo rattles the door.

Nell rises, steps out of the tub, and looking like she could kill,

moves for Theo's door.

She grabs the handle but realizes what Theo has been trying to tell

her all along: it's LOCKED.  Perplexed, Nell finds the key in the

hole, and turns it.

The door rams open, Theo behind it, terrified and clearly just

awoken.

Nell stares at her, hair tangled, tear-stained, doubtful.  Water

splashes in the tub, faucets still running.

The LIGHTS flicker as one in the connecting rooms.  Theo has time to

look up at the bulb in the bathroom, and they all GO OUT.  Darkness

swallows them up.  Stray moonlight reflecting in the mirror

silhouettes them standing there.

Nell stoops in the darkness and the faucets squeak shut.  Theo bumps

her way out of the room.  Nell moves to the doorway following her

into --

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT

-- Theo's room.  Theo's form moves by her bed, and with a snick, her

cigarette lighter lights up.  Theo holds it above her head, its tiny

orange flame glistening off polished wood in the shadows.  Nell

steps toward her.

Drip.  Drip.  From the bathroom.  Theo's eyes widen?

And sweeping over them a SHOCK OF COLD.  Their breath.

Nell shakes her head: don't say anything.  Nell turns around, the

darkness almost impenetrable.  SHAPES, alien, threatening, at the

very edge of light -- anyone could be some... thing.  Drip.  Drip.

Nell looks down at Theo's bed, then at Theo who moves closer to

Nell.  Nell gives the bed a wide berth.  Together they back toward

the wall with the fireplace.

They stare out at us, eyes trying to adjust, afraid.  Behind them

looms the fireplace and in front of it, a metal cage-like fire

screen.  A beat.

BAM!  SOMETHING LUNGES out of the fireplace but is caught in the

screen, hitting Nell and Theo in the back.

Theo's lighter goes flying in that very instant, and we never see

what's hit the screen.  Neither do they.  Theo falls SCREAMING.

Nell manages to whirl, embrace the cage and slam it with whatever's

inside back into the fireplace.  The screen JOLTS hard enough to

lift Nell.

Theo still SCREAMING, lying on her back before the fireplace, rams

her feet against it.  The screen HAMMERS at Nell and Theo.  They

can't run or it'll get out.

Theo's screaming is suddenly drowned out by a HORRIFYING, INHUMAN

SOUND from inside the fireplace.

Theo's scream goes dead in breath-stealing horror.  Nell recovers.

The screen punches out at them, denting.  And then all the air in

the room seems to be SUCKED into the fireplace in one THUMP.  The

door to the bathroom slams.

It's gone.  They sit there in the darkness, panting.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NEXT DAY

Nell stares at the tableaux of Hugh Crain.  In the morning light it

seems inert, cold, just a statue.  Luke and Theo enter.  Nell

doesn't seem to notice them until they're beside her.

Theo considers, then looks at her, severe.

He rolls up his sleeve revealing large, livid SCARS at intervals too

regular to be anything natural.

But there's a desperate, rising edge to Nell's voice.  Theo's, in

response, is quiet, sober... certain.

Theo is chilled by this answer which would only make sense to

someone out of her mind.

Nell looks up and sees the double staircase at the end of the

greenhouse... the one where Crain's wife killed herself.

And for a moment we see Crain's wife hanging there and then the

image is gone...

INT. DINING ROOM - DAY

Lunch remains are on the table as Nell enters, test papers in hand.

But Marrow isn't there.  She's about to go back out to look for him,

but sees something and stops.

Forgotten by a reading chair to one side of the room.  Barely

visible.  Marrow's BRIEFCASE.  Nell goes to the briefcase, knowing

she shouldn't look, and unable to help herself.  Marrow's digital

recorder glints out at her.

Nell takes it out, and presses play.  She looks up at the door.  Any

minute he could come back in here... and then Marrow's voice rings

out.

Marrow's voice continues on in his assessment, but Nell isn't

hearing anything anymore.

She dies inside.  Her world upside down.  She falls into a chair,

and all we can hear of Marrow is the cold, analytical tone, his

garbled jargon.

It's Marrow, for real, about to enter.  Nell clicks off the

recorder, drops it into the briefcase.  Marrow is startled, not

expecting Nell to be sitting right next to his papers and briefcase.

She can only stare at him, eyes dead.  Marrow looks from her to the

briefcase and back.

Nell can't answer.  Marrow comes over, unsettled.

Nell rises, staring, emotionless.  Betrayal just beginning to find a

hold.  She hands him her papers.  Marrow looks at Nell, knows she's

been in his briefcase.  He picks it up, and with a final, sorry

glance, exits.

INT. GROUND FLOOR HALLWAY - DAY

Nell emerges from the study, stands there a beat, lost.  Then she

turns, resolute, and starts moving.  Faster.

INT. GREAT HALL - DAY

Nell, blinded by tears, runs across the room toward the grand entry

and the exit... and stops.

DOWN THE CONNECTING HALL, out in the grand entry, at the front

doors, are Mr. and Mrs. Dudley.  Leaving for the day.  They stop.

Look at her.

Nell, numb, gazes from the open door to Mrs. Dudley.  Mr. Dudley

holds the door open as if in invitation.  Nell could walk out right

now.  This is her chance.  But...

Mrs. Dudley smiles a knowing smile.  An all too knowing smile.  And

seeing Nell's decision, gently shuts the door.  The LOCK CLICKS.

Final.  Fate-sealing.

Nell turns back to the House, lost.

INT. RED PARLOR - DAY

Nell walks right up to the moveable bookcase and enters Crain's

secret study.

INT. CRAIN'S SECRET STUDY - DAY

Nell sits in silence, trying to find a feeling, any feeling.  A long

beat.  And without warning she leaps to her feet in SHOCKING rage.

She has a floor lamp in her hands, and hurls it like a throwing

hammer at the nearest shelves.  Vases, knickknacks and a LEATHER

ALBUM crash to the floor.

She stalks around the room, and then slows, staring at what she's

done, the rage draining out of her.  But if she could do something

like that...

She turns in place, desperate... and sees the old leather album

precariously tilting on one of the sprung shelves.  It's open.  One

of the leaves flips over on its own, gravity and the weight of its

own pages TURNING IT.

Nell approaches, stepping over broken ceramic.  SLIP.  Another page

turns.

Nell hovers over it, holding her breath so as not to make the book

flip over and fall off the shelf in one instant.

SLIP.  Another page turns.  The book is a PHOTO ALBUM of the late

nineteenth century, bound with ribbons, the aged Daguerreotypes in

pressed vellum frames.

Nell peers closer.  It's open to a faded, gray image taken long

before it became the convention to smile for a photograph: a woman,

RENE CRAIN, sitting in a chair.

And standing behind the chair, a fearsome presence in a black coat,

his face hollow, malevolent.  HUGH CRAIN.

Nell shivers, and SLIP, the page turns on its own.

An image of Hugh and Rene, a look of deathly loss on their faces.

The page flips.

Crain hovers, dark, rage just under the surface, but on Rene's face

is the faintest, most inappropriate SMILE.  It sends a chill through

Nell.

The album begins to slide down the shelf, and as it does, PAGES

FLIP, Rene's SMILE grows wider, her hair dishevelled, her eyes lit

with grinning insanity...

Nell grabs the book just as it falls from the shelf.

It is open in her hands to a picture of Crain, alone, in front of

the enormous fireplace in the Great Hall.  RENE IS GONE.  The photo

is monstrous.  Nell, fearful, turns the page --

-- and REACTS to the last thing she expected.  A picture of a lovely

woman filled with grace and power.  CAROLYN CRAIN.  Posed.  On a

settee before the fireplace.  Beautiful beyond words.  Smiling.

Ahead of her time.

It warms Nell.

She turns the page.  Now Crain is there beside Carolyn.  But there

is something different about him.  Less frightening.

Nell flips the page again, and now there is an image of Crain and

Carolyn.  Her hair is up in a FRENCH TWIST.  Nell smiles more.

Nell turns the page yet again.

kinder, gentler Crain, but now it is Carolyn who is unsmiling.

Another page.  Another.  Carolyn's face darkening.  And in this

picture, Carolyn's stomach is slightly distended.

Nell TURNS PAGES FASTER AND FASTER, and as she does, Carolyn SWELLS

PREGNANT before our eyes in ragged animation, mouth working as if to

speak, voiceless as it is... ELEANOR.

Nell fumbles the book onto the floor.  It stares up at her, open to

the last page.

It is an image of Carolyn.  Betrayal.  Hell.  Knowledge.  Her hand

seems to be POINTING at the gaping maw of the GRAND FIREPLACE.

Nell bolts from the room.

INT. GREAT HALL - DAY

Nell bursts into the Great Hall and stops.  At the far end of the

room broods the vast fireplace, its chain curtains hanging like the

veil to some hellish sanctuary.

Nell stares at it, daunted.  What is it that Carolyn is trying to

show her?  The fireplace beckons, and Nell approaches against her

will.

She finds a steel poker hanging by the fireplace, and takes it down.

She uses it to slide one of the chain curtains open.  She steps into

its soot-black mouth.

Nell peers up the chimney.  A faint sigh of air.  She sticks the

poker up the flue, scratches around.  Nothing.

She turns her attention to the back of the fireplace, thwocks it.

Sooty stone chips away, but it's solid.

The mechanism for the ash drop catches her eye.  Nell grabs the

heavy, iron lever.  She pulls, but can barely budge it.  It finally

screeches back, and the iron door in the floor of the fireplace

SWINGS DOWN.

Nell looks in.  Two feet down it looks like a gray blanket of ash, a

charred timber or two sticking out.  Sick with fear, Nell prods the

ash.  Just charred wood.

She thrusts the poker down deep.  It vanishes in the ash up to her

hand.  CLACK.  She rakes through the ash.  CLACK.  And then she

feels the poker take purchase.  She draws it out, and full of dread

turns it to the light...

Impaled on its hooks are TWO HUMAN SKULLS.

Nell fights back the scream in her throat.  One of the skulls is a

child's skull, the other an IMMENSE SKULL with brooding brow,

forehead crushed.

Nell lets the poker drop.  It bangs off the door, falls in the ash

drop, its handle hitting a spring.  Nell recoils as the trapdoors

SNAP SHUT like a pair of jaws.

INT. GROUND HALLWAY FLOOR - DUSK

Nell stumbles down the hall, weeping in fear.

But instead she hears children voices, calling out for her.

INT. CONFUSING SERIES OF ROOMS (THE MAZE) - NIGHT

Nell winds through the pitch-dark halls, rooms gaping black left and

right, searching for the voices which seems to come from just around

the next bend, leading her around corner after corner.

The hallways peel past Nell as she runs, slamming through doors,

ever darker.  The House's hellish carvings glare as she passes,

grinning, taunting.  She rages on, oblivious until she rounds a

final corner --

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT

-- into the long, dark hall leading to the LOCKED ROOM.  The

STATUARY peer down on her.  Dead faces.  Blind marble eyes.  As she

turns, the heads and eyes turn imperceptibly with her.

For a frame or two the EYES are real, just a subliminal glimmer.

For the instant we try to catch the movement, the illusion, it isn't

there.  It makes Nell stop.  She regards the terrible doors.  She

considers the labyrinth around her.  And begins to understand.

Another CRY comes from the far end.

Nell eases down the hallway, the fear welling back on her like a

tide.  She hesitates, but then the CHILD-CRY forces her on.  She

reaches the CARVED DOORS with the wooden guard statues.

Gaping cold and stench hit her.  She gags.

Now the CRY comes from under the door.  Present.  Real.  Right

there.  Nell shudders.

The CRY grows louder, desperate.  She shuts her ears to it.  The CRY

rises to fearsome rage, not sounding like a child anymore.  Not

sounding like anything human at all, it's painful.  Nell looks at

the locked room in horror and takes off running.

INT. PICTURE GALLERY - DUSK

Nell bursts into the picture gallery and stops.  Standing there are

Marrow, Theo and Luke, stricken silent by her entry.  Looks of shock

on their faces.  Nell just stands there.  A beat.  And then it pours

out of her, hysterical.

She takes a breath, and turns gray.  Before anyone else can react,

her legs go out from under her, and she lands sitting.  Theo and

Marrow get to her side fast.

Marrow grabs her face.  It's gray, her eyes glazing over.

Luke races out.  Theo, scared, looks at Marrow.

He starts to lift her.  Theo takes her other side.

Nell is ugly, sprawling, in shock, as Theo and Marrow shuffle her to

a padded bench on one side of the room.

Marrow grabs her face.

Luke rushes in with a blanket.  Theo covers Nell and then holds her,

gently.

Nell manages to focus on him, her breath laboring.

Theo pulls back, goes very still.  The first hint of fear in her

eyes.

Marrow sees the panic working on her, gives her a stern look:

The command derails Theo's train of thought.  Marrow stares at Nell

in pity, can't bear it, and has to look away.  Finally he turns back

to her, full of regret.

Everyone but Marrow REACTS.

Theo glances at Luke: he's been right all along.  This was never

about perception.

Marrow shoots him a look: shut up.

Nell bucks in his arms, furious, desperate.

Nobody says anythlng.  The silence tortures Nell.

She starts to laugh.  Marrow gently presses Nell down, tucking the

blanket around her.

Nell sobs.  The others exchange looks at this.  It sounds so hollow,

so delusional, it makes Marrow look so right.

Nell SPASMS trying to fight her way up, but Marrow and Luke hold her

down.  Nell begins to wail in helpless rage.

Theo pushes them back and grabs Nell's hand, gently brushes Nell's

face.

Theo turns up to Marrow, intense, furious with him.

Nell's hysterics have stopped.  She stares up at him, lost.

Searching inside herself.  Maybe she is crazy...

Marrow reaches down to Nell, but she shrinks away.  Theo blocks

Marrow out, shielding Nell.  Marrow pauses, disgusted with himself.

A disgusted Luke leaves the room.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell lies in her bed, shivering.

Theo spreads an extra blanket over Nell.

Theo spots a small candelabra with strings of crystal beads on the

bedside table.  She lights the two candles.

Theo goes and turns out the light.  Nell lies there watching the

flicker of the candles play in the crystal.  Eddies of heat mingle

up the frost-covered glass of the window behind the candelabra.

Small streaks of frost begin to melt... We see eyes forming in the

melting frost, a face begins to form...

Theo watches Nell.  There can be a TIME DISSOLVE.  Nell falls

asleep.  Theo tiptoes out of the room.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Luke eats chips.  Marrow stands by the door, arms folded, matter-of-

fact.

Awkward silence.

Theo comes in, she heard what they were talking about.

He knows this.  It tears him apart.

Marrow nods, gets his briefcase, exits.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Marrow steps into the dark, vast room, his glasses glinting.  The

faint outline of the fireplace on the far wall looms in the

darkness.

Marrow approaches it.  The mesh screen is still open.  Marrow stands

there a moment.  Then looks in.

He squats and tries to open the ash-drop.  It doesn't budge; it's

jammed by the poker Nell dropped in.

Marrow considers, then shakes his head, feels stupid for even coming

in to check.

Suddenly his CELL PHONE RINGS, startling him.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Luke stops Theo, carrying a tray of food and tea, outside the

kitchen door.

Some sexual awareness.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell lies in her bed asleep, the room dark except for the last,

guttering end of one of the candles.  It goes out.

A FAINT SOUND.  LONG, LOW, like the inarticulate murmur of a dozen

madmen.  Nell stirs.  Her eyes open.  She hears the sound.

The wall on the opposite side of the room catches the pale gloom

from the window.  The twisting figures in the plaster, the low-

relief, the shadows they make seem to COME TOGETHER AS AN EYE.

Black.  Not human.  The woodwork around it like some half-face.

The GIBBERING begins to RISE.

OUT OF THE CORNER OF HER EYE she can see a FORM beside her in the

bed.

Nell's mouth moves.  She manages to form words, but it's just a

whisper.

Nell reaches out under the covers.

Her HAND is suddenly grasped.

THE EYE on the wall stares.  The babbling, liquid, deep voice

mounts, and as the shadows move ever so slowly, the EYE seems to

roam over the room.

And then the babbling stops.  Nell grimaces in pain.  She tries to

look at Theo, but it's far too DARK right there beside her.

In the place of the babbling, another sound.  High-pitched, drawn-

out.  A CHILD'S CRY.  Nell reacts.

The cry wails louder, coming through the wall.  It's a wail of

agony.  A wail not of this earth.  Nell struggles, racked between

the pain in her hand and the tortured child's cry.

The EYE focusses on her.  Dead on her.  Nell stops.  And with sudden

violence, she's WRENCHED out of the bed by whatever's beside her.

Nell hits the floor with a scream.  She grabs at the table on this

side of the bed, pulling a lamp down on her, yanking at its chain.

The room FLASHES into brilliance.  Nell stands up, panting... There

is nothing in the room.  No Theo.  She looks at her hand.

The eye on the wall is gone.

Nell snaps around.  There on the window, SPREADING before her eyes

the frost on the glass is melting into a HORRIFYING FACE.  The face

of CRAIN.

Nell recoils in prickling fear.  Living fear.  Then her fear turns

to RAGE.  In the blink of an eye there's a heavy ashtray in her

hand, and it's flying at the window.

The window BASHES out into the night, the face vanishing with a HOWL

of air.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

NeIl explodes from her room, a flying fury of hate.  The child-cry

seems to race ahead of her into --

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- Theo's room, which is empty.  Now it seems like it's coming from

the door to the hall, is right there.  Nell races after it and --

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY, NORTH WING - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- barges out into the hallway.  She breaks into a run.  The cry

sounds from farther off.  Nell chases after it.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Theo carrying a pot of tea and some cups enters quietly just in case

Nell is asleep.  She stops in surprise.  The window is smashed, lamp

on the floor.  Nell is gone.

INT. NELL'S HALLWAY - NORTH WING - NIGHT

A panicked Theo runs out of Nell's room into the hallway.

INT. CROSS HALL - NIGHT

Halls sprawl away into darkness in all directions as Nell tries to

feel out where she is, and realizes she's lost.  Just like Theo and

she were before.  But now it's night.  And she's alone.  She's been

tricked.

Panting, she stops, presses herself against the wall.  Her breath

catches.

Across from her is a MIRROR.  Herself reflected in its tarnished

surface.  But there is something wrong with it.  Nell steps across

to it.

Her reflected self begins to SMILE.  But SHE'S NOT SMILING!  Nell

writhes in horror, but can't pull away from the mirror.  In it, her

GRIN WIDENS, INSANE.

BANG!  Nell recoils.  The sound breaks the spell, knocking Nell back

from the mirror.

BANG.  BANG.  BANG.  Nell turns and runs.

INT. HALL OF PILLARS - NIGHT

The banging chases Nell into the hall of pillars.  Nell turns to

face whatever it is that's coming after her.  The BANGING

CRESCENDOES... and then recedes, still audible, but like the thing

following her has taken a wrong turn.

Another mirror on the wall.  Nell glimpses herself in it.  This time

Nell backs away, through doors into --

INT. HALL OF MIRRORS - NIGHT

-- the hall of mirrors.  Bang bang bang bang...

The octagonal, mirror-lined pillars cast and re-cast her reflection

throughout the room.  Nell is everywhere in plain sight, but hidden

by the very infinity of her images.  The BANGING grows louder.

The BANGING ceases.  And then we see the real Nell standing there.

She turns around.  Her REFLECTIONS all TURN with her.  EXCEPT ONE.

For a long moment, we see it but Nell doesn't.

And then she does.

The REFLECTED NELL stands there, hands hanging, silent.

Nell exhales in shuddering fear.  The Reflected Nell MOUTHS

compelling the real Nell to whisper with it:

With that the Reflected Nell grins and her STOMACH SWELLS before our

eyes, pregnant just like Carolyn Crain.

Nell runs.

INT. HALL OUTSIDE GREENHOUSE - NIGHT

Nell races down the long hall, bare feet flying, covering her face

from MIRRORS left and right.  She stumbles into --

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- the greenhouse where she slips on the marble.  She kicks the door

shut behind her and lunges for the spiral staircase, her horror

driving her up and up, setting the rickety thing swinging.  We HEAR

what Nell hears, the voices of children.

Nell climbs higher and higher into the dark reaches above.

AS SHE CLIMBS: through the greenhouse windows we see the night sky,

the clouds driven by the wind, the moon, old vines wrapped aroud the

skin of the greenhouse... and the shapes and shadows of the vines

seem to shift as if it was alive...

Nell reaches the landing.  The stair case rolls back and forth

beneath her.  A beat.  And then BAM!  The door slams open below.

Nell can only manage sobbing relief.

Nell drags herself to the hand rail.  Marrow, Luke and Theo rush

into view below.

They all react to the sight of Nell at the precarious top -- with

her insanely happy smile.  They think she's there to kill herself.

Just like Rene Crain.

They all freak out in a chorus of 'Nell!  No, Nell!'

Nell couldn't anyway.  She just grins madly, tears running down her

face.  Marrow grabs for the stairs, but they shift under Nell's

movement from up above.

Marrow mounts the stairs.  The metal support rods sing out under his

weight.  And the whole thing pitches, rolling around as he goes up.

Five feet.  Ten feet.  Fifteen feet up.  The sway gets wilder as he

goes.

At twenty feet, with twenty more to go to reach Nell, he stops.  The

stairs buck, sway out dizzily.  And then to his dismay, he realizes

he's on the WRONG SIDE of the double helix staircase.

He straddles the rail to climb over to the other half.

The sudden shift is too much for the old stairs.  The support rods

CREASE and then the whole enormous column of steel from where Marrow

is standing to the ground BURSTS from its supports.

Luke shoves Theo aside, and the bottom half of the stairs spirals

out in a massive, deafening COLLAPSE.  Marrow's cellular phone falls

out of his pocket and shatters in hundred pieces across the floor.

The top half of the stairs remains, still hanging from the ceiling.

Nell grips the railing at the top.

Marrow hangs there by one hand over the razor tangle of steel below.

He flails out for the other stairway, swings himself over to it.  It

takes a moment for him to realize he almost just died.  A moment of

paralysis.  This is no longer an experiment.  No longer fun and

games.

There she is.  Marrow forces himself to start climbing the shaky

stairs.  Luke and Theo watch from below, tense.

Then he's there.  Nell stands a mere arm's length from him on the

other side of the railing.

Nell barely seems to hear him.  Instead she looks at the DEFORMING

SUPPORT RODS around her.  We HEAR the voices of the CHILDREN,

calling to her.

Theo, on the ground, calls up to Nell.

Nell refocuses on him and then gingerly climbs over the railing.

She hangs there.  She looks down at the tangled steel below...

Nell looks UP at him, hazy.

And THEN BEHIND MARROW: the shifting clouds, the moon, the vines...

and suddenly all these random elements behind him form a dark

hideous face and in front of it a hand, and the hand is rushing

forward to PUSH MARROW OFF THE STEPS.

After we scream, NELL SCREAMS.

And as Marrow falls forward, pushed by the force behind him, Nell

grabs him... he is caught on the rail... As she has reached out to

him, now she has fallen into thin air, and she falls towards Marrow,

and they hold each other.  She has a hand... then a foot... she

slips... she holds on again... and reaches the staircase.  She grabs

on.

A moment's peace... and then a new disaster: with a metallic POP POP

POP the support rods spring from their anchors and the rest of the

stairwell next to them drops to the ground in a catastrophic

shattering of sound.

Marrow looks behind him, to whatever it was that Nell saw over his

shoulder.  He looks back at her.  Her eyes are closed, she won't

open them.

He leads her go down the stairs.

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT

Marrow and Theo stand in the doorway to the shared bathroom watching

Luke finish taping a trash bag over Nell's broken window.  Nell lies

in her bed, asleep or unconscious, it's impossible to say.  Luke

finishes, comes over.  Marrow is hushed, grim, exhausted.

Marrow looks away, doesn't want to say this.  Theo reads the

feelings on his face.

And they go.  Three scared people.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Luke sits on the closed toilet and watches Nell in the adjoining

room.  Light from the bathroom falls across her fetal, curled form

in the bed.

The door to Theo's room is open too.  Luke glances over.  Theo lies

on her bed.  Marrow is slouched in a chair.

Luke settles back against the wall.

The HOUSE EXHALES, and the breath of the house is like the poppy

field in the Wizard of OZ; it brings on sleep.

INT. THEO'S ROOM - MUCH LATER THAT NIGHT

Marrow is struggling to stay awake and his eyes finally close.  Theo

breathes hard in the grips of some awful dream.

This is what the House wanted.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell lies asleep, the ornate headboard looming behind her, black

with its strange plant-like splay of leaves.

Nell draws a deep, sleeping breath... and her EYES OPEN.  She lies

there, her breath still in her lungs, not moving, but sensing

something.  A long beat.  When she lets her breath out, we can see

it in the cold.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Luke's head rests solidly on the wall.  His eyes are closed, unaware

his breath is fogging too.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

Nell lies there afraid to move, afraid to make the faintest sound.

From the darkness above WOOD CREAKS.  At first it seems like someone

is walking on the floor above.  But it is coming from within the

room.

The CARVINGS on the ceiling, the impossibly elaborate woodwork, ARE

MOVING.  Incredibly slowly, with incredible subtlety: turning inside

out, some of the forms lengthening, some shortening.  Carvings

changing here, changing there -- the ceiling coming alive -- with

some grand design we sense but cannot yet see.

The wood grows out of the ceiling eating its way down into the tall

bed POSTERS.  It crawls down the posters, straining the sinewy

baroque curves, swelling them...

The CREAKING begins from the darkness of the wall opposite Nell.

Nell inclines her head to see.  Out of the wall two enormous BULGES

grow, side by side.

From behind Nell, now.  The headboard GROANS, its shapes moving, the

fan-like plant designs thickening and SPLAYING wide.

Nell can't move, her mind refusing to understand what's going on.

The bulges in the wall DROOP to the floor.  And then we BEGIN TO

SEE: they are like a pair of KNEES.

Understanding starts to show in Nell's eyes.  She looks up at the

ceiling.  And now all the movement, the design behind the awful

transformation of the ceiling is clear.

It is a HEAD.  A visage of madness, of absolute horror, eyelids

sealing shut its blind face.

Silence.  Nell's breath comes ragged.  Unable to speak, but trying

to call out.

The EYES OPEN.  A SCREAM tears out of Nell's throat.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Luke is shocked awake in time to see Nell's room CONVULSE on her

just before the DOOR SLAMS in his face.

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT

The entire ROOM RAMS itself at Nell, jolting her hard into the

headboard.  THUMBS FOLD OUT of the woodwork, pinning her by the

shoulders against it.  As the room lowers itself toward her, she

SCREAMS out of her mind.

INT. NELL'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Marrow lunges into the bathroom, thrown from sleep as Luke stares in

impotent shock.  Theo is there behind Marrow an instant later.

Luke can't make any words come out.  Marrow shoves him aside, grabs

the doorknob and thrashes at it.

He braces Luke up, and then they lunge together, shouldering the

door.  It splinters out of its frame --

INT. NELL'S ROOM - NIGHT (CONTINUOUS)

-- and stumble into Nell's room.  Marrow's mouth opens.  Luke stands

speechless.  They're stricken by the sight: Nell SCREAMING, held by

the headboard as the deformed ceiling dips over her, the room

THRUSTING at her rhythmically.  Nell and Theo make EYE CONTACT.

Marrow recovers, reaches out for Nell, and the FACE in the ceiling

turns on him.  The GAZE stops Marrow in his tracks.  He looks up

into it and knows it's real.  Somehow, it is Crain.

Luke appears from out of nowhere on the other side of the bed and

SMASHES off one of the wooden hands with a large brass candelabra.

Nell screams in surprise, but Theo drags her out of the bed.

The head turns to them.  They flee.  Marrow backs away in awe and

fear.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Luke and Theo drag Nell down the stairs into the Great Hall.  Marrow

brings up the rear.  They retreat for the entry as Luke puts his

jacket over Nell's shoulders.  Marrow stops, looks back up the

stairs.

All there is are the sounds of Nell, Luke and Theo making for the

hall to the entry.  The House is silent.

Luke goes out.  But Nell pauses, stopping Theo with her.

The House is quiet.  Marrow's hand still outstretched.  Nell looks

around the room.  There are heads everywhere, faces: animal heads,

humans, gods, all staring from the woodwork, the carpets everything.

All turning to her.

Theo looks around, but can't see what Nell is seeing.  Nell's breath

comes faster, disoriented, yet aware...

Even now, Marrow can't believe what he just saw, but Theo's voice

brings him back.  He whirls, grabs onto Nell, helps Theo drag her

out.

EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY/GATE - NIGHT

Four cars sit behind the massive, locked gate, as far from Hill

House as possible.  Marrow paces past the fence, staring out, the

road beyond leading out of this place, so close...

Luke digs with a pen knife at the marble footing below the gate.  No

easy way under it.  He stands and gazes at the razor-sharp spikes

twenty feet up.  There's no way to climb this.

Marrow just looks at her and walks back to Nell's car.

INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT

Nell sits in the passenger seat of her car, wrapped in her jacket.

She stares out at the gate, at Luke and Theo consulting.  Marrow

appears in the window.

Nell nods, but there's something about her not right.

Marrow shakes his head, doesn't fully understand.

Nell stares, dismayed, but Marrow is dead serious.

Hill House looms behind her, windows forming eyes, the carport a

gaping mouth.

Nell's dismay becomes a cold, terrifying understanding, and she

turns and stares back up at the House.

Luke comes up with Theo on the other side of the car.

EXT. HILL HOUSE DRIVEWAY/GATE - NIGHT

Theo pulls Nell away from the drive.  Marrow stands back from Nell's

car where Luke belts in behind the wheel.

Luke eases the car forward to the gate.  He advances until the car's

bumper makes contact.  And then without further ado, REVS the

engine.

The Buick grinds into the heavy steel bars.  The chain tightens

around the two halves of the gate, but shows not the slightest

strain.

INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT

Luke grimaces, shifts into low, pours on the gas.

EXT. MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The car fishes back and forth against the gate, hurling a shower of

gravel on the other cars off to the side of the road.  Marrow, Nell

and Theo move back.

One of the Buick's headlights breaks.  The grill mashes in.  For a

long moment the car struggles against the Gate.  No good.  Luke

eases up.

Theo looks at Marrow.  Luke puts the car in reverse.

They back way up.  Luke vanishes up the drive in the car.  And then

the Buick comes around the corner, accelerating, slicing down the

gravel road.

INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT

Luke sits way back in the seat, grits his teeth, floors it, aiming

at the gate...

EXT. MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The car SMASHES into it... and is STOPPED, collapsing, twisting in a

deafening hail of steel and glass.

The massive gate has BENT itself AROUND the car, holding it in its

steel-grip.

EXT. GATE - NIGHT

Nell understands, the house will not let her go.  She turns away

from the gate, faces the House, mesmerized by the beauty in this

monstrosity.  The House is calling her back, and Nell is drawn

towards it.  She starts walking...

INT. NELL'S CAR - NIGHT

Luke gasps for the seat belt, the wind knocked out of him, steering

column pushed to his chest.  Marrow and Theo run up outside.  Luke

sees him, sees he's not getting any closer than ten feet, and he's

looking back at the gas tank.

Luke gets the seatbelt off, tries to open the door but it's warped

shut.  He struggles to get out from behind the wheel.  Sparks jump

from the battery.  Gas shoots out of the fuel pump onto the

shattered window.  He knows he's in trouble.

Finally Luke gets free of the wheel.  It's agonizing to watch...

The passenger door is jammed shut too.

He squirms into the back seat.  The rear doors are in the same

condition as the front.  But the rear window is blown out.  He

crawls out onto the trunk.

EXT. MAIN GATE - NIGHT

Marrow hurries around the back of the car, staying clear of the lake

of gas spreading about it.  Luke rolls off.  Marrow helps him up,

and gets him away a safe distance.

Marrow looks up at the gate.  It is even more impassible than before

with the gasoline-saturated wreck in it.  No way to try another

break-out either.

He turns around.  The others do too.

No Nell.  Luke and Theo look up.  Mute dread.  No Nell anywhere.

INT. GRAND ENTRY - NIGHT

The massive black door swings silently into the dark, vaulted entry.

Marrow pauses there, looks about, and then enters.  He holds a tire

iron.

Luke does too.  He and Theo follow Marrow in.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - NIGHT

They stay to the outside of the stairs, padding silently up, trying

to get a glimpse of the floor above.  It's shrouded in darkness.

They turn at the landing, eyes riveted to the top of the stairs.

They start up.

INT. 2ND FLOOR HALLWAY, NORTH WING - NIGHT

Marrow, Luke and Theo pause at the top of the stairs and peer down

both long, empty directions of the hallway.

Then Marrow turns toward Nell and Theo's room.  The brass

candelabra... in front of the open door.

The rooms draw nearer, closer.  Not even the sound of their

breathing.

The door is ajar.  Marrow pushes it open with the tire iron.  The

room lies in silent disarray.  Normal disarray.  The bed normal.

The ceiling normal.  No Nell.

Marrow and Theo REACT and enter the room.  Luke lingers out in the

hall a moment.  And just as he steps in after them we HOLD on the

long, empty hall --

-- and a FIGURE glides across.  Far down at the other end.  She

disappears.  It was Nell.

INT. STATUARY HALL - NIGHT

Nell walks through the row of dark statues.  Carved faces watch her

pass.

INT. HALL OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT

Nell stands before the threshold of the horrific doors, once locked,

now inexplicably OPEN.  The mythological frieze on the door split in

half, a world cut in two, a seal broken.  Like something has come

out of its tomb.

Nell steps into the blackness.

INT. THEO'S ROOM - NIGHT

Marrow comes out of the bathroom, joining Theo by the window next to

her bed.  Luke stands in the doorway.

Marrow remembers.

INT. GREENHOUSE - NIGHT

Marrow, Luke and Theo enter the greenhouse, the heavy growth

forbidding in the darkness.  They spread out on the parallel

walkways.

They reach the transept, turn down it toward the statue of Crain at

the end looming white in the dusk.

Dead silence.  Then Marrow SCREAMS.

Under a thin layer of ice underneath the giant hand that protrudes

from the pond we find Watt's body, as if the hand wants to keep him

there forever.  Marrow did find his Watts, a horrifying sight.

As at the same time out of the mouth from the sculpture erupts a

river of blood, scaring the hell out of them.  Their clothes

splattered with blood, Marrow quickly leads them out of there.

INT. LOCKED ROOM - NURSERY - NIGHT

Nell stands there in the darkness, sensing the expanse of the room,

turning... and kicking something on the floor.

It is a wooden toy train.  Then she sees a rocking horse by her

feet.  It is a NURSERY.  Turn-of-the-century.

And as Nell's eyes adjust, as she tries to see what else is in here

in the dark, she begins to make out WHITE SHROUDED SHAPES.

Against the wall.  A bed covered in a sheet.  A table beside it.  A

HAND BELL.  A CANE.

mouth.

The furniture is in EXACTLY the same position, though the sheets

covering the pieces are stained, FAR OLDER.

And on the wall, something in a frame is covered with a piece of

sheet.

Nell approaches it in trepidation and removes the cloth.  For a long

beat, all we see is her face as it goes slack.  Understanding.

The framed thing is a stitchery.  It says: A PLACE FOR EVERYTHING,

EVERYTHING IN ITS PLACE.

Just like the one at home.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Marrow, Theo and Luke barge into the Great Hall.

Marrow and Theo look at him.  It's what they've been thinking, but

haven't had the courage to say.  Theo stops suddenly.  Turns around.

The men notice, and pause.

Then they hear it.  Faint.  Floating down from upstairs somewhere.

Nell's TUNE.  It doesn't sound right, but it's hard to tell as it's

coming from so far away.

They look at each other, start for the stairs.

INT. HALLWAY OUTSIDE LOCKED ROOM - NIGHT

Theo, Marrow and Luke stand at the end of the dark hallway.  They

stare at the gaping doors to the nursery at the far end.  The tune

is coming from within.  Abruptly, it stops.

And instead of Nell's tune, there's a repetitive CREAK.  CREAK.

CREAK.

In rising dread, Theo starts forward.

It takes Marrow and Luke a moment to come after her.  The CREAKING

gets louder, unnerving.

They get to the doors, Theo first.  She pushes them wide.

INT. LOCKED ROOM - NURSERY - NIGHT

They stop there, staring into the shadows.

And there, hunched over something turning a CREAKING CRANK of some

sort, is Nell.

Nell straightens from whatever it is she was doing and turns to

them.  Theo steps toward her, afraid for her.

Marrow shuts him up with a vicious gesture, stays back himself as

Theo approaches Nell.

Nell smiles at Theo.  She's holding something.

Nell's smile softens even more.  Her voice is reassuring.

A CHILL of fear cuts through Theo as Nell looks deep into her eyes.

The thing in Nell's hand is a NEEDLE, the thing she's been cranking

an ANCIENT PHONOGRAPH.  She lowers the needle to the spinning

record.  And HER TUNE, the one she hums all the time, begins to

play.

The others are frozen where they stand.  Marrow's mind reels at the

implications of what he's hearing.

Nell turns back.  The others stand there speechless.

And that, finally, galvanizes the others into action.  Marrow sweeps

past Theo, grabs Nell hard, and swings her for the door.

Luke closes in on Nell with Marrow, and there's nothing she can do

but let herself be pulled along.

INT. GRAND STAIRWAY - NIGHT

Down the stairs they come, Luke out in front now, bounding down a

half flight ahead.  Marrow and Theo support Nell between them.

Nell looks up at the hooded painting of Crain, but is spun around

and taken down the next flight.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Nell, Marrow and Theo reach the bottom of the stairs and pause.

Luke is halfway across the room, looking back to make sure they're

with him --

-- and Nell digs her heels in, jerking Marrow and Theo to a stop.

She stares.  The others follow her gaze.

She's looking down the connecting hall, out to the entry at the

front doors.  They're open.

The DOOR BAMS SHUT with a concussion that rocks the entire room,

sweeping Luke's jacket under it.  The HANDLES TURN, LOCK DOWN.

Stunned.  All stunned.

A RUSH OF AIR.  The House EXHALES.  Silence.  And then CREEEEAK.

They cast their eyes back up the stairs.

BUMP BUMP.  Far-off sounds, hair-raising, of infinite variety, carry

down the halls.

Luke rushes from the room.

INT. GRAND ENTRY - NIGHT

Luke YELLS and throws himself at the front doors.  Marrow runs over

to help him and shoves the tire iron between the doors and PRIES.

Marrow throws the useless thing down and stands back.

Luke joins him, and they shoulder block it together.  But this door

is MASSIVE.  There's no way.

He roundhouse kicks it, hurts himself.

Theo, afraid, watches the Great Hall behind them.  Nell puts her

hand on her shoulder.

Theo stares, appalled.  Marrow looks around, puts his hand up to

shush everyone.  The HOUSE MOANS, the BUMPING growing, searching.

He rushes down the hall, Luke right beside him, Nell and Theo in

their wake.

INT. DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Luke's first barging into the kitchen.  Big windows all along the

wall.  Huge windows.  Marrow follows him in, Luke's fear turning

into a vicious smile as he sees the towering windows.

Nell and Theo are right behind in time to see Luke and Marrow

scooping up a table and chair respectively.

The men rush the same window, side-by-side, and let the heavy pieces

of furniture fly from ten feet.

The WINDOW SHATTERS, dozens of panes blown out into the darkness

beyond.  But the metal LATTICE remains, the chair's legs stuck in

it.

Marrow and Luke pause, taken back a beat.  They hustle over to it.

Theo and Nell stand a few feet back.

Luke grabs the chair, levers it, tries to pry open the metal.

Marrow reaches through, knocking loose glass, trying to find some

sort of handle on the other side.

Theo watches the door behind them.  Luke pries at the inch of metal

between him and freedom.  It won't break.

Marrow slips on the broken glass and catches hold of the lattice

LACERATING his ring and little finger.  With a cry of pain, he lands

on the floor.

Nell and Theo fall to the floor to help him.  Marrow moans, and Nell

grips his injured hand in hers.  Fast, like she was born a trauma

doctor, Nell clamps off the blood with her fingers.

Marrow tugs at his shoe, in shock, and looks at Nell.  She's calm.

Terrifyingly calm.  And in that moment, he realizes she's not out of

her mind.  She just understands things beyond what he could possible

begin to understand.

Nell cinches the shoelace tight around his wrist.

Luke throws down the chair, giving up on the window.

As he looks up at another one of Crain's painting hanging on the

wall.  Nell Theo with Marrow straggle toward the great hall.

INT. VESTIBULE TOWARDS GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Luke flicks a LIGHTER out of his pocket.

Before anyone can stop him, he LIGHTS a towering TAPESTRY on fire.

He races from one to the next, lighting them.  Theo and Nell help

Marrow up, back away as Luke shoots by.

All the tapestries are ON FIRE, blazing up like torches.

At last, his rage spent, heaving, he moves to join the others at the

center of the room.  They stare at him, appalled, afraid.  Knowing

he has done something wrong.

Luke stops.  Maybe fifteen feet away.  He sees their expressions.

Nell looks over at the burning tapestries.  Heat sears the stone,

blackens the carved figures in the woodwork.

The ruddy light casts deep shadows throughout the room.

But there's no need.  The tapestries are consuming themselves too

fast to ignite the walls or ceiling.  They all realize it.  As the

last flaming scraps of cloth fall to the floor and go out, there is

utter silence.

INT. GREAT HALL - NIGHT

Luke looks at them helplessly.  An awful, impending beat.  Without

warning, the huge PERSIAN CARPET he's standing on JERKS out from

under him.  Luke falls on his stomach.

Stunned, Luke looks straight into Nell's eyes.  Then the carpet

slides fast for the FIREPLACE.  It whips up to the hearth and sends

Luke flying through the chain curtains.

The others are speechless.  They can do nothing but watch as Luke

lays there on the ashdrop.  A long moment.

She knows what is going to happen, is powerless to prevent it.  Luke

stands up, has time to give her a look.

And then the LION'S HEAD FLUE drops open behind him.  Luke looks

back into its iron eyes --

-- and with SHOCKING SPEED the FLUE snaps shut again, taking Luke's

head off his body.

The decapitated corpse falls back in the fireplace like a puppet

with its strings cut.

Nell, Marrow and Theo stand there.  Not sure of what just happened,

their minds unable to accept it.

A sound comes up in Theo's throat.  A sob.  A horrified whimper.

Marrow and Nell stand there speechless.  It's as if saying the

obvious will make it real:

BANG.  The blood-splattered LION'S HEAD drops open.  Luke's head

falls out.

Theo SCREAMS and SCREAMS again.  Nell backs away with Marrow, almost

has the presence of mind to drag them away, but --

-- CLANG!  The ASH DROP OPENS.  The sudden sound stops them in their

tracks.

As they watch, it's as if the House INHALES.  And BOOM!

Out of the ash drop EXPLODES a hail of BONES, SKULLS, FLYING ASH.

Nell, Theo and Marrow back up toward the Grand Staircase as TONS OF

INCINERATED HUMAN REMAINS vomit from the fireplace, blasting across

the floor, knocking over furniture with shocking violence.  Skulls

bounce over wood.  Hundreds of them.

Theo and Marrow cover their faces as shattered bits of bone, loose

teeth pelt them.  Nell is immune.

They run up the Grand Staircase toward the top and finally it can't

reach them anymore.

INT. MEZZANINE - NIGHT

They look out at the full scope of Crain's horror.

Marrow stares at her, trembling.  He glances around at the winding

labyrinth of house.  Impossible.

Nell looks at him, pitying.  Infinitely sad, but guarding them.

Behind them the huge painting of Hugh Crain in a golden frame with

sharp metal spikes, looks down at them.  The room inhales and

exhales, the bumping sound resumes.  A rumble runs through the house

and they all look down in fear toward the great hall where a cloud

of ashes still hangs in the air.

Unseen by them, this rumble start to shake the painting behind them.

The sound from the great hall makes Marrow and Theo back up more,

but Nell doesn't move... she senses something is about to happen and

she will fight it...

She suddenly turns and sees the painting... in a flash she reaches

out for Marrow and Theo, pull them out of the way as the giant

painting with the huge skull, falls face down toward them.  It

misses them by a hair, but their clothes are shredded by the spikes.

Marrow and Theo are-shocked as they back up right toward the GRIFFIN

on top of the staircase.

For a split second the BRASS Griffin right behind them, comes alive,

opens it's fangs and claws and is ready to attack... but Nell sees

the danger, grabs a human bone and batters the griffin.

And the griffin turns back into brass.  Marrow and Theo unaware of

what happened behind them.  They have to get out of there.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALLWAY - NIGHT

Nell leads Marrow and Theo down the dark hallway, the twisted

woodwork along the walls frozen, but seeming poised to reach out,

trip someone, grab a sleeve.

It is a nightmare House.  Doing what it was made for.

The BUMPING they've left behind seems to vanish up and into the

ceiling.  It gives chase, on the floor above.  Nell keeps looking

back, and every time she does the BUMPING seems to get more firm,

MORE LIKE A FOOTSTEP.  Calm, Nell urges them on.

The FOOTSTEPS upstairs come faster; whatever's up there moving

better, more naturally.

Theo and Marrow turn LEFT through an archway.  Nell looks back at

the ceiling.  The thing's moving fast.

She dodges toward the archway where Theo and Marrow went, and STOPS.

It's a wall.  Solid wall.  There's no archway here!  Nell backs

away.  Alone.

The House has separated them.

Nell tries to open any of the hall doors, but they are all locked.

There's no other way then going back.

INT. MEZZANINE - DAY

Nell is back in the mezzanine, steps carefully over Crain's

painting.  The long white lace curtains in front of a side window

start to flutter in the wind... but the window is closed!

Nell walks up to the top of the stairs, her back to the window,

calls out:

No answer, and as she steps forward, listening for a reply, the

CURTAIN BILLOWS OUT behind her, and in its movement, becomes for a

split second, the image of CRAIN, GRABBING for her.

Nell, oblivious, steps just OUT OF REACH, and as the breeze fails,

the contours and patterns of the billowing curtain dissolve into

chaos.  Nell glances back at it, just sees curtain, and looks up at

the open window.

She turns from it, determined, and starts out to find her friends

and walks down the steps.

INT. GRAND STAIRCASE/GREAT HALL - NIGHT

CLOSE ON THE BRASS GRIFFINS that guard the staircase.

Behind Nell's back they all turn toward her, follow her with their

eyes as Nell enters the great hall.  And they cower in fear for what

is about to happen.  Again Nell call's out for Theo and Marrow.

And Nell doesn't see the scores of TINY ARMS OF CHILDREN that fold

out from the carvings in the high backed chairs in the hall as Nell

carefully avoids stepping on the skulls and bones of the children

that cover the floor.

Horrifyingly alive are these TINY HANDS as reach out for her hair

after she passes.  We're screaming as they almost have her... and

Nell steps away.

And then... CREAK... CREAK... CREAK...

The terrified animal heads on the balustrade, their eyes flash in

fear.  The lions above the big fireplace snarl restlessly.

Cherubim, afraid, clasp hands.  Gods and men pay unwilling witness

to what is now coming down the stairs.

The upper flight of stairs strains under the weight of the thing

coming down, over our heads, coming down, down... and now at the

landing.  The sound stops.

Nell's BREATH escapes, visible in the cold as she watches, rooted to

the floor in the Grand Entry.

Darkness against darkness.  Something BLOCKS the glint of the gilded

frame up on the landing.  Something huge.  A beat.

And then a SHADOW sweeps across the scene, impenetrable, darkening

the stairs, wiping them from sight, like something gliding down

them.

Before our eyes, out of the most subtle variation of shadow,

flickers into existence:

THE SHAPE, tall, eight or nine feet, featureless, black, but in the

proportions of an enormous man with his head bowed, shoulders

stooped.  And just like that, all it is...

...is a well of darkness and night once again.  We don't even know

for sure what we just saw.  But it is still there in that bar of

shadow.

Nell goes rigid, not breathing, not seeing anything but the awful

presence.  She is spellbound.

BANG.  A door in the connecting passage opens, and Theo and Marrow

come out, between Nell in the entry and the thing in the Great Hall

beyond.

In a flash the SHAPE is moving at Theo and Marrow.  They don't see

it, have their backs turned.

But Nell is looking past them.  They see her face and turn around.

What is coming at them makes the blood stop.

The Shape rushes from the Great Hall, vanishing as it crosses the

pools of moonlight, reforming darker as it hits shadow again, its

wake like a shockwave, invisible itself, but VISIBLE IN ITS EFFECTS:

Theo SCREAMS.  Marrow stumbles back.  And then Nell's voice rings

out:

The onrushing presence STOPS.  Seems to turn its attention to Nell,

standing there before the towering front doors.

Nell shows no fear.  There's a ferocious edge to her voice.

She points out at the human remains strewn all over the Great Hall.

The SHAPE hovers there, silent.  Air and shadow distort around it.

The carved animal heads on the Newell posts and walls loll back and

forth, alive then not-alive.  Pieces of furniture stamp in fury, try

to animate themselves, but can't find limbs that work.

The SHAPE HOWLS FORWARD, knocking everyone out of their seats.  It

flies across the floor at Nell.

Marrow and Theo are slammed against the walls out of its way.

Nell OPENS WIDE HER ARMS in an EMBRACE.

It's ON HER, but just as it seems to hit, it SPLITS like she went

right through it.  The SHAPE and all the debris in its wake IMPACTS

deep in the enormous doors.

The carved WOODWORK seems to suck it all in, cracking, groaning.

And then all the SCREAMS are cut off.

Nell stands there with her arms spread.  A long moment.

She opens her eyes.

And then the woodwork LASHES OUT, grabs her from behind, slams her

back against the doors.  THE BLOW HAS KILLED HER.

We feel her bones break as she crumples, is drawn into the woodwork.

And for a few seconds Nell's body just hangs there... and then it

gently falls down.

Theo lets out a horrified cry as she runs toward Nell.

Marrow gets up off the floor in terror and awe, his life his

beliefs changed forever.  He walks over to Nell and feels her pulse,

knowing it is a useless gesture as Theo softly moans over Nell.

And as the camera pans up across the entry door, we see a new

carving in the sculpted doors.  It is a woman and as we move in we

can see that she wears the same necklace as Nell...

INT. HILL HOUSE FRONT DOORS, ENTRY - EARLY MORNING

The HOUSE INHALES.  And BOOM!

The front doors blast wide.  Every door in the entry slams open.

EXT. HILL HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Against the early light of a rising sun, the silhouette of Hill

House. Every window and every door in the House is open, each and

every one CRYING OUT with a different, unintelligible voice, like a

soul, the soul of a child, escaping from each one.

EXT. GATE - DAWN

Theo and Marrow stand on the far side of Nell's wrecked car.  On the

other side of the gate Mr. Dudley is undoing the chain.  Mrs. Dudley

stares at the ragged duo.

Mr. Dudley can barely get one side of the gate open with the car

crushed in it.  Theo and Marrow emerge, dazed, into the real world

again.

Marrow stares at him, he's an exhausted man.  He walks away, Theo

beside him.

Now, we could have him say this line...

But he should just look at her, and say the same thing with his

eyes.

We pull back.

EXT. BERKSHIRE HILLS - DAY (AERIAL)

The summer hills lie green, passing fast underneath.  Clearings loom

out of the forest ahead.  And there, its sprawling stone in the

sunshine, rises Hill House.

EXT. GATE - DAWN

Theo and Marrow stand on the far side of Nell's wrecked car.  On the

other side of the gate Mr. Dudley is undoing the chain.  Mrs. Dudley

stares at the ragged duo.

Mr. Dudley can barely get one side of the gate open with the car

crushed in it.  Theo and Marrow emerge, dazed, into the real world

again.

Marrow stares at him, he's an exhausted man.  He walks away, Theo

beside him.

As they walk away, the SOUND OF APPLAUSE comes up.

INT. PRINTING PLANT - DAY

Where the applause turns out to be the sound of a press finishing a

run of a book.  This could be shot in an old press in England, or a

foundry, with a few pieces of equipment to suggest a press.  There

are stacks of books.  This is the printing press in Hell.  The NOISE

is deafening.

The title of the book: FEAR AND PERFORMANCE.

Marrow stands before a mountain of copies of the book.  A PRINTER

very proudly hands him a copy.

Marrow opens the book.  The Printer looks at the page over his

shoulder.

Marrow looks at him.

Marrow studies the page.  We go into the whiteness of the page to:

EXT. HILL HOUSE - DAY

Where we find Theo.  The House is beautiful today, it's sunny, there

are flowers outside, the mood has changed.  Theo is now softened,

she's found something better than what she had.  She goes into the

house.

INT. HILL HOUSE - DAY

Theo is in the House.  She looks around, walks up the stairs.

EXT. BERKSHIRE HILLS - DAY (AERIAL)

The summer hills lie green, passing fast underneath.  Clearings loom

out of the forest ahead.  And there, its sprawling stone in the

sunshine, rises Hill House.

