FADE IN:

EXT. A HYPERBLUE LOS ANGELES SKY -- DAY

The sky is overlaid with the slow whup-whup-whup of an LAPD

helicopter flashing through the frame, here and gone.

LAPD radio transmissions crackle like static electricity

around a dirty clapboard bungalow that looks like the

puckered asshole of Eagle Rock.

A man's terrified voice screams invisibly from the house --

A five-member SWAT tactical team appears out of nowhere--full

black assault gear, M5s, gloved and masked--hustling into

position on either side of the front door.  Only now do we

get the full picture:  Helicopters overhead, radio cars

surrounding the house, an army of cops itching the pull the

trigger --

When the tac team is good to go, the team leader gives a

thumbs-up to --

SERGEANT JEFF TALLEY AND LT. MURRAY LEIFITZ

Talley and Leifitz are hunkered behind the LAPD Command and

Control van.  Leifitz is the Crisis Response Team SWAT

commander; Talley, the primary negotiator.  It's so hot out

here that Talley has stripped down to a tee-shirt and vest.

Talley lifts a dedicated crisis phone that's been hardlined

into the house, his tone reasonable and friendly --

A phone crashes through the window and lands in the front

yard --

Frustrated, Talley slumps back against the van as the SWAT

Intelligence Officer, Lloyd Keith, scuttles up to them --

Up at the house, George Edward Malik steps into the window.

Malik is a forty-year-old freaked-out loser who has turned

the corner on insanity --

Talley stares at Malik, thinking, then abruptly grabs Keith

by the collar --

Talley steps out from behind the command van so that Malik

can see him.

Talley ignores Leifitz; he is totally focused on Malik and on

defusing the situation --

Malik steps away from the window --

Something about Malik's statement bothers Talley.  The

wording is odd, suspicious --

Talley grows even more concerned.  Was Malik talking to him?

Talley sees Keith rejoin Leifitz --

The pieces fall into place for Talley:  The wife that no one

can find, the dog that doesn't exist....

In a single terrible moment, Talley realizes that Malik is

not talking to him; he's talking to his wife --

Even as Talley screams, a gunshot echoes from the house,

freezing the moment.  A second shot follows the first as the

tactical team breaches the front door --

Talley sprints forward, running as hard as he can in

nightmare slow motion --

INT. MALIK'S HOUSE -- DAY

Talley shoulders inside on the heels of the tactical team

through drifting gun smoke and lancing sunlight.  SWAT cops

are cuffing Malik even though he's already dead of a self-

inflicted gunshot wound; Malik's wife is sprawled on the

couch where she has been dead for fourteen hours; two tac

officers are trying to stop the geyser of arterial blood that

sprays from the neck of Malik's nine-year-old son even as one

of them screams for the paramedics --

Talley is numb; it's all too much, too heavy, too horrible.

He kneels between to the tactical cops and takes the boy's

hand.  He stares into the boy's eyes, and the boy stares

back.  The child's face grows pale as he drains of blood.  We

hear his heart beating.  We hear it slow.  We hear it stop.

Talley stares at the dead boy.  The dead boy's lifeless eyes

stare at nothing.

TITLES

Another hyperblue sky, but now we're in an upscale bedroom

community in the sun-scorched high desert north of LA --

A legend appears:  One Year Later.

EXT. KIM'S MINIMARKET AND GAS STATION -- DAY

A rotted-out Toyota pickup lurches to a stop alongside the

minimart, white-boy hip-hop booming on the radio which dies

with the engine --

Dennis Rooney is driving; twenty-three years old, working-

class desert trash with a high opinion of his own brooding

good looks.  In the middle: Kevin Rooney, nineteen, scared

shitless at what they're about to do.  Riding shotgun:  Mars

Krupchek, twenty-four, a large pasty guy with a shaved head

and faraway eyes.

Mars slides out of the truck.  He has a tattoo on the back of

his tattoo that says:  BURN IT.

As soon as Mars is gone, Dennis frowns at Kevin --

Dennis pulls a pistol from his pants to check the magazine.

Mars returns and nods his approval --

That's all it takes.

INT. KIM'S MINIMART -- DAY

Junior Kim, Jr., is short, squat, and forty-two years old.

He's reading a magazine behind the counter when Dennis and

Mars enter; Dennis trying to disarm him with a smile --

As Dennis reaches the counter, he lifts his tee-shirt to

reveal the butt of his pistol --

But Junior Kim is ready.  He lurches to his feet, bringing up

a pistol of his own --

Dennis lunges across the counter, grabbing Kim's gun, and the

two men are suddenly locked in a ferocious death-struggle for

possession of the weapon --

Dennis and Kim bounce from the counter to the Slurpy machine,

the Glock locked between them, pointing first one way, then

the other, their eyes meeting as -- BAM -- the gun goes off.

Junior Kim's eyes widen.  Dennis and Junior both look down at

the red blossom that grows on Junior Kim's chest --

Kim falls into the Slurpy machine, then slides to the floor.

Dennis scrambles over the counter and sprints for the door.

But Mars hesitates.  Instead of running, he picks up Kim's

gun, then leans over the counter to look at Kim's body.  We

cannot see his face --

EXT. THE MINIMART -- DAY

A forty-something soccer mom named Margaret Hammond is about

to enter the minimart when Dennis and Kevin burst out,

knocking her on her ass.  Mars follows a moment later --

Margaret watches their red pickup lurch away, then rushes

into the store --

INT. THE TRUCK -- DAY

Dennis power-shifts into gear, clashing tortured metal as he

pushes the Toyota as hard as it will go.  No one is talking;

they're screaming --

Dennis sees himself in the rearview mirror.  His face is

splattered with red dew, the sight of it freaking him out --

The trunk careens crazily off the road.  Mars calmly runs a

hand over Dennis's face --

Dennis upshifts hard again, the truck lurching as the tranny

howls --

-- whereupon the tortured transmission gives with a loud BANG

and the truck loses power --

EXT. FLANDERS ROAD -- DAY

Flanders Road is lined with trees, hedges, and the exclusive

housing developments that dot the countryside around Bristo

Camino.

The Toyota jerks to a stop well off the road, and Dennis,

Mars, and Kevin pile out, stuffing pistols and bullets into

their pockets --

Dennis grabs him by the throat; Mars steps between them --

Dennis sees that Mars is right; people in passing cars are

looking.  He releases his brother --

Dennis and Mars take off for the wall, Kevin reluctantly

following --

EXT. WALTER SMITH'S HOME -- THE CUL-DE-SAC -- DAY

The camera reveals a two-story California Mediterranean home

in the exclusive housing development known as York Estates.

You can't get in the door for less than one-point-five, and

this house costs more:  Eight thousand square feet of used

brick and custom tile set on a lushly landscaped acre --

INT. WALTER SMITH'S OFFICE -- DAY

Walter Smith is at his computer behind his desk.  He's forty

and fit, casually dressed with thinning hair and glasses,

currently leaning back as he talks on his phone --

As Smith talks, he ejects a Zip disk from his computer,

attaches a label reading Al, then places it in a palm-sized

case beside the first disk, Marlon --

Walter's ten-year-old son, Thomas, suddenly charges around

the desk and pulls at his father's arm --

Walter allows his son to pull him around the desk to --

EXT. THE SMITHS' BACK YARD -- THE POOL -- DAY

A boom box blasts the latest teendiva megahit as Walter's

sixteen-year-old daughter, Jennifer, stretches out in cutoff

shorts and a bikini top, working on her tan.

Walter and Thomas appear in the French doors that open from

the back of the house --

Jennifer rolls her eyes, rises from the chaise longue, and

pads to the house.  As she clears the frame, the camera

swings toward the overgrown wall at the edge of the property.

Dennis silenty drops into the bushes --

EXT. BRISTO CAMINO PATROL CAR -- DAY

A sky blue Bristo Camino patrol car cruises along Flanders

Road --

INT. THE CRUISER -- OFFICER MIKE WELCH -- DRIVING

Welch is a young officer with an innocence to his eyes that

you don't find in urban cops.  He keeps a photo of his wife

and toddler son taped to the dash.

Welch picks up the radio microphone --

This is so unexpected that Welch waits for the punchline --

Welch turns on his lights just as he sees the red Toyota

pickup abandoned on the side of the road and stands on his

brakes --

INT. THE SMITHS' KITCHEN -- A FEW MINUTES LATER

The Smiths' home sports an open floor plan with the kitchen

centrally located between a large family room, a hall that

leads to the front of the house, and the French doors that

open onto the pool area.

Jennifer is putting the finishing touches on three tuna

sandwiches as she calls to her brother --

She turns to find herself face-to-face with Dennis, who

clamps a hand over her mouth --

Mars is holding Thomas.  Kevin is by the French doors --

Jennifer struggles until she sees that Mars is holding a

pistol to Thomas's head --

Jennifer nods, and Dennis removes his hand.  He has her

pinned to the counter, his body pressed into her's; she is

suddenly very aware that she is almost naked --

Dennis grabs her hair and pulls her away --

INT. SMITHS' OFFICE -- DAY

It happens fast:  Dennis shoves Jennifer into the room, and

Mars and Kevin follow with Thomas --

Walter is feeding a computer print-out into a paper shredder

as they burst through the door --

Dennis shoves Jennifer to the floor and stalks directly

across the room, his gun trained on Walter.

Walter freezes, hands motionless, letting the paper feed into

the shredder.  Strangely, he has little outward reaction --

Walter carefully sits.  He is amazingly calm in the face of

this invasion.

Mars pushes Thomas down beside Jennifer, then aims his gun at

Walter.  Kevin closes the shutters as Dennis rips the

electric cord from a lamp --

Walter glances toward the shredder; the final page of paper

emerges as spaghetti and then the shredder stops --

A strange smile flickers at the corner of Walter's mouth as

if there's a joke within all this, then --

Dennis rushes to the window --

EXT. THE SMITHS' HOUSE -- CUL DE SAC -- DAY

Mike Welch climbs out of the patrol car and keys his shoulder

mike as he appraises the house --

Welch slowly moves up the walk toward the front door --

INT. THE ENTRY -- DAY

Dennis shoves Jennifer to the door --

EXT. THE HOUSE -- WITH WELCH

Welch is halfway up the walk when the door opens and

Jennifer, clearly terrified, peers out.  Welch hesitates --

Jennifer doesn't answer.  Her eyes fill until two huge tears

roll down her cheeks.  Welch grows uneasy.  Something is

wrong, but he doesn't know what.  He stays where he is --

Welch stares into Jennifer's eyes, pointedly shifting his

gaze to ask the silent question:  Are they here?

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- MARS AND KEVIN

are peering out the shutters when --

Mars suddenly shouts --

Mars opens fire, shooting through the window as --

DENNIS

kicks the door closed and fires through the door, Jennifer

screaming, as --

EXT. THE HOUSE -- DAY -- MIKE WELCH

tumbles backward, struggling weakly to pull his gun as blood

bubbles in his mouth.  He tries to rise, but can't --

Mike Welch blinks at the sky, but cannot answer --

INT. BRISTO CAMINO POLICE DEPARTMENT -- DAY

It's the kind of small-town police facility you might expect:

A general room with desks and computers, a coffee machine,

and a desk officer who thinks that crime is two teenagers

egging a house.

The camera establishes the low-key atmosphere, during which

it finds a glass door labeled J. Talley, chief of police --

INT. TALLEY'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jeff Talley is behind the desk, his voice muted because he is

locked in a painful phone conversation --

INT. JANE'S KITCHEN -- DAY

Jane Talley is an attractive woman in her mid-thirties.  She

has the efficient manner of a registered nurse, which she is,

and right now she's using all of her professional detachment

to keep herself together --

Intercut Talley, who considers the photographs that decorate

his wall:  Shots of Talley in happier times with Jane and

their teenaged daughter, Amanda; Talley as a young SWAT

officer; the framed headline from the Bristo Weekly Standard

proclaiming:  EX-SWAT COP NEW BRISTO CHIEF!

Jane softens; she knows that a part of him is in terrible

pain.  But she's in pain, too --

Talley studies the picture of his wife and daughter.  He

focuses on Amanda --

Jane cups the phone and calls to her daughter.  Amanda enters

and goes to the refrigerator.  She's fifteen and carrying the

weight of a seriously bad attitude --

Jane turns away and lowers her voice, not wanting Amanda to hear --

Talley knows, and he hurts like hell because of it --

Jane hangs up without waiting for a response, then closes her

eyes, trying hard to keep herself together.

Jane stalks away without a glance back, and Amanda angrily

flips off her mother --

WITH TALLEY

He is clearly shaken by the call, but his thoughts are

interrupted when his assistant, an older woman named Louise

Vance, bursts in --

Talley comes around his desk --

Talley charges out --

EXT. YORK ESTATES -- CASTLE WAY -- DAY

Talley wheels into a wide, spacious cul-de-sac lined with

expensive estate homes, and pulls up behind another radio

car.  Anders and Jorgenson are crouched in the street --

Bullets snap into Talley's windshield, starring the glass --

Talley scrambles out of his car --

EXT. THE SMITHS' HOUSE -- TALLEY'S CAR -- DAY

Talley takes cover behind his front wheel.  Anders and

Jorgenson are young guys; they've never worked a high-crime

area; they've never made a felony arrest; and right now

they're scared shitless.

Mike Welch lies on the Smiths' front lawn, forty feet away --

Another shot cracks from the house as we hear the faint wail

of approaching sirens.  Talley edges around his car, trying

to see Welch --

Talley considers the situation and comes up with a plan --

Talley scrambles back into his car.  He backs up, then powers

the car up the drive and onto the front lawn --

WITH WELCH

Talley roars to a stop between Welch and the house, using the

car as a shield.  More shots ping off his car as Talley

climbs out --

Welch moans.  His shirt is soaked with blood where the

bullets caught him beneath his vest.  Talley can't waste

time.  The siren is closer now --

Talley hoists Welch into the backseat, then dives behind the

wheel.  He fishtails off the lawn and up the street --

EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC INTERSECTION -- DAY

The ambulance waits as Talley powers to a stop --

Paramedics pull Mike Welch from the car as Talley gets out.

He can see into the cul-de-sac from here, where Anders and

Jorgenson still hunker behind their car.  Talley keys his

radio --

His radio crackles with overlapping voices --

Frantic voices once more overlap --

More sirens are approaching, but their help seems too little,

too late.  Talley stares up the cul-de-sac at the Smiths'

house as if this was a terrible nightmare --

INT. WALTER SMITH'S OFFICE -- DAY

Gunsmoke fills the air.  Kevin is freaking.  He throws a

magazine at Mars --

Her voice cuts through the din.

Jennifer and Thomas are huddled with their father on the

floor, Jennifer's arms crossed to cover herself --

Dennis charges up to her, screaming and waving his gun --

Walter Smith slowly stands --

Dennis spins toward Walter, leveling his gun --

Dennis raises the gun to Walter's face.  Walter is in

complete command of himself and nowhere near scared, but

Jennifer grabs his legs --

Walter eases past Dennis, who doesn't know what to do --

Walter slips open the center drawer.  Dennis thinks that

Walter might go for a gun.  He screams louder and aims

between Walter's eyes --

Walter checks that the computer disks are in the disk case.

We can see their names clearly:  MARLON and AL.  He drops the

case into the drawer, then lifts out a thick booklet --

Dennis slaps the book aside, even more angry --

Dennis suddenly screams at Mars and Kevin --

Dennis snaps.  He swings the gun hard and smashes Walter on

the temple.  Walter drops like a rock.

Jennifer rushes to her father's side, but Walter's out cold --

EXT. TALLEY'S CAR -- THE INTERSECTION -- A FEW MINUTES LATER

Talley is at his car with Anders and two other officers,

Leigh Metzger, a woman in her early thirties, and Cliff

Campbell, a slender guy who looks like a retired security

cop.  Talley is getting information reports both in person

and over the radio --

Talley keys his mike --

A news helicopter swoops overhead in a tight turn.  The cops

look up --

Talley realizes that his officers are staring at the

helicopter as if they've never seen one; these people have

never dealt with a crime this large, and have probably never

even seen a felon.  Talley keys the mike again --

No one looks particularly convinced --

Talley puts away his mike --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- DAY

Jennifer and Thomas are bent over their father, wanting to

help but not knowing how.  Walter's eyes flicker as if he's

dreaming, and the lump on his head is bleeding --

Jennifer abruptly stands and faces Dennis --

Jennifer is scared--really, really scared--but she doesn't

sit down.  Both Dennis and Mars are staring at her.  She

feels naked and vulnerable.  She crosses her arms again --

Dennis finally relents and shrugs at Mars --

Jennifer hurries out as Mars follows --

INT. THE KITCHEN -- DAY

Jennifer goes to the counter.  Kevin is at the French doors,

nervous and scared; Mars is a dark shadow behind her --

She kneels to a low cabinet when Mars kicks it shut --

Mars towers over her, his groin inches from her face --

Mars gazes down at her, enjoying his size and power.  He

steps closer, bringing his groin closer to his face.

Jennifer stands, holding her arms across her breasts --

Kevin's intrusion shatters the moment.  Jennifer quickly

snatches a wash cloth from the cabinet, then takes an ice

tray from the freezer and brings it back to the counter --

As Jennifer puts ice in the wash cloth, she sees the paring

knife that she used for the sandwiches partially hidden by

paper towels --

She glances at Kevin, but cannot see Mars; he's at the

refrigerator behind her.  Jennifer slowly reaches for the

knife --

Jennifer freezes, terrified.  She pushes the knife behind the

Cuisinart to hide it, then turns.  Mars is offering her a

beer.

Jennifer hurries past him and disappears down the hall.  Even

as she leaves the phone starts ringing --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- DAY

The phone seems to ring louder here.  Dennis stands over it,

watching the phone as if it's alive.  The phone rings again

and again.  Finally, he answers --

EXT. TALLEY'S CAR -- IN THE CUL-DE-SAC -- DAY

Talley is once more behind his car.  He's on his cell phone,

with Jorgenson nearby --

Intercut Dennis on the phone in Walter's office --

Dennis peers through the shutters --

Dennis shoots a guilty glance at Walter, then lies --

Talley cups the phone to tell Jorgenson --

The phone clicks in Talley's ear as Dennis slams down the

phone --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- AT THAT MOMENT

Dennis is livid with fear and rage.  He paces through the

office like a trapped cat --

Kevin appears in the entry, drawn by Dennis's raving --

Dennis shoves Kevin out of the office and stalks after him --

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL -- DAY

Kevin dogs along beside Dennis, speaking softly so that Mars

doesn't overhear --

They reach the master bedroom suite, a huge room with sliding

glass doors that overlook the pool --

Dennis shoves Kevin toward the bathroom, then steps into --

INT. THE SECURITY CLOSET -- DAY

One side is filled with racks of clothes, but the opposite

side is an industrial bank of video monitors showing a dozen

views of the house, both inside and out --

Dennis sees this stuff and stops in his tracks, awed --

Kevin steps in beside him.

One monitor shows Mars and the Smiths in the office, another

the kitchen, another Jennifer's room, another the front of

the house, the rear, the sides--every room and most of the

exterior can be seen --

Dennis goes out into the master, looking for the camera, and

appears on the bedroom monitor --

Dennis steps back into the closet, and this time he examines

the door.  He closes it enough to reveal thick throw-bolts --

Dennis glances over to his brother, and finds Kevin on his

knees with two black travel bags beneath the clothes --

Kevin pushes the clothes aside to reveal an open bag.  It's

filled with hundred dollar bills.  Dennis kneels beside his

brother and opens the second bag.  It's filled with hundred

dollar bills, too --

INT. MRS. PENA'S FAMILY ROOM -- DAY -- ON A TELEVISION

We're watching a grainy black and white security tape of

Junior Kim's robbery/homicide.  It shows Kim behind the

counter as Dennis and Mars enter --

Talley, Mikkelson, Dreyer, and Anders are watching the tape,

which is currently being played in the home of Mrs. Estelle

Pena, who lives two blocks from the Smiths.

Mikkelson is a tall, strong woman; Dreyer is her opposite, a

short, dumpy man --

Talley steps closer to the television, and taps Mars --

Talley looks closer.  With the way Mars is positioned, we can

see part of the tattoo on his head --

On the tape, Kim slumps to the floor.  Dennis vaults across

the counter and runs to the door.  Mars, however, calmly

picks up Kim's gun and leans across the counter.  We couldn't

see this before, but now we see a strange smile play over his

face --

Talley watches Mars, and knows that this guy is seriously

disturbed.  He is still watching the tape when Leigh Metzger

calls from the door --

Talley turns.  Metzger is with Amanda and Jane --

EXT. MRS. PENA'S HOUSE -- DAY

Talley, Jane, and Amanda are walking to the street.  Amanda

is excited; she thinks this is cool --

Five news choppers now hover high over the house.  The crime

scene is only two blocks away.  Close.

They wait until Amanda is gone, then --

Jane touches his arm --

Self-conscious, Talley moves away so that he's out of reach --

Talley gives her a gentle nod, then watches her walk away

until --

She turns back, her eyes asking 'what?'

Talley and Jane share the moment, and then she walks away.

EXT. YORK ESTATES -- DAY

A news chopper swings by overhead bringing us to the main

entrance of York Estates.  The entrance has been blocked, and

cars are being turned away, so traffic is backed up both ways

along the street --

INT. GLEN HOWELL'S CAR -- DAY

Glen Howell is a nice-looking man in his early forties:

Sport coat, gold Rolex, deep tan.  He hammers the horn of his

Mercedes S600 sedan, but it does no good; traffic is frozen --

A news van trying to work up the line pulls alongside, then

gets jammed by the crunch like everyone else.  Howell rolls

down the window --

An attractive Asian-American reporter leans from her window

to answer --

The reporter checks her notes --

Howell stares at her emptily, then shakes his head --

Howell pulls a U-turn to get out of traffic.  He flips open

his cell phone and presses the speed dial --

INT. SONNY BENZA'S OFFICE -- PALM SPRINGS -- DAY

We're in a palatial home on the ridge overlooking Palm

Springs.  On the cut, Sonny Benza, Phil Tuzee, and Charlie

Fischer are watching TV news coverage of the situation in

Bristo Camino --

Fischer tries being positive --

Benza turns back to the television --

The television suddenly shows Talley making a statement.  He

looks tired and haggard --

Benza studies Talley, then looks at his lieutenants --

That's exactly what Benza wanted to hear.

EXT. THE DESERT ROSE MOTEL -- DAY

A low-rent motel on the road between Bristo Camino and

Newhall.  Glen Howell's Mercedes is parked on the side, along

with several other cars.

It's late-afternoon going into evening.  The sun is sinking

fast --

INT. HOWELL'S ROOM -- DAY

Howell is being briefed by his operators, four men and two

women.  There's a minimum of bullshit; these people are

professionals --

Ken Seymore is an intense, compact man who talks fast --

Duane Manelli speaks up --

Gayle Devarona, one of the women, leans forward --

She tosses a yellow legal pad onto the table --

Mike Ruiz joins in --

Howell tears Talley's address off the yellow pad.  This

meeting is over --

Howell tucks the address in his pocket and goes to the door.

EXT. DONUT SHOP -- NEWHALL, CALIFORNIA -- NIGHT

The sun has set.  The donut shop glows greasily at the end of

a strip mall.  It is empty except for the overweight woman

behind the counter and a lone man seated at a window booth --

INT. THE DONUT SHOP -- NIGHT

The man in the booth is named Marion Clewes.  He's an average

looking guy, more or less, except for the strange cant to his

right eye and the thin black tie he wears over his white J.

C. Penney shirt.  His jacket doesn't fit quite right, but not

so much as you'd notice.  Marion could disappear into a crowd

just by being so ordinary.  That's the point.

A fat black desert fly, heavy with juice and thorny with

coarse hair, buzzes past --

Marion watches it, only his eyes moving --

The fly lands in the sprinkles of sugar on the table --

Marion watches it, then, suddenly, with no warning, his hand

flashes out, slamming down on the table.

He holds his hand in place, feeling for movement, then slowly

peeks under his hand --

The fly oozes sideways, legs kicking, trying to walk.  One

wing beats furiously; the other is broken --

Marion examines his hand.  A smear of fly goo and a single

black leg streaks his third finger.  Marion touches his

tongue to the smear --

The woman behind the counter watches this, her eyes widening

with disgust --

Marion holds the fly in place with his left index finger, and

uses his right to break away another leg.  He eats this leg,

too --

The woman disappears into the rear --

Headlights flash across the glass, and Marion swivels around

to see Howell's Mercedes pull up --

Marion carefully pushes the still-alive fly aside as Glen

Howell takes a seat across from him.  Howell puts the yellow

slip with Talley's address on the table --

Marion puts Talley's address into his pocket.

Glen Howell slides out of the booth without answering.

Marion creeps him out --

Howell starts away, then turns back --

Howell frowns like he might've known, then walks away.

Marion turns back to the fly --

It lays there, still, until Marion prods it.  The remaining

wing flutters --

Marion breaks off the remaining wing and eats that, too.

EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT

Talley and Leigh Metzger stride through a pool of street light

as she reports --

They arrive at Larry Anders, who is waiting at his car with a

slim, nervous cement contractor named Brad Dill --

Metzger holds out a still picture that was made from Junior

Kim's security tape --

Metzger hurries away as Talley turns back to Dill --

Dill pulls out a tattered address book.  Talley hands the

book to Anders, who copies the address --

Anders turns away as Metzger calls from Mrs. Pena's door --

Talley has wanted to hear that, but now his sense of relief

is tempered by something he did not expect:  Loss.

Talley keys his shoulder mike --

INT. SMITH'S SECURITY CLOSET -- NIGHT

Dennis is on the floor with the money, touching it, feeling

it, smelling it.  Mars is standing over him, profoundly

unmoved --

Mars turns away from the money to consider the monitors and

the door --

Mars walks away --

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT

Dennis and Mars are returning to the front of the house,

Dennis irritated at Mars's lack of enthusiasm --

Dennis grabs Mars by the arm, stopping him --

Mars continues on without responding, Dennis angrily

following --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Kevin is grimly watching news coverage of their standoff as

Mars and Dennis enter.  A female anchor is reporting on the

events at York Estates with Dennis's booking photo cut into

the picture --

Dennis spots himself on television and breaks into a big

smile --

Kevin is anything but thrilled --

Across the room, Walter Smith shudders and moans; his face is

swollen and covered with clammy sweat --

Jennifer is sick with worry and can't stand seeing her father

like this --

Jennifer lurches to her feet and runs toward the front door.

Dennis catches her in two steps and backhands her exactly the

way his old man used to smack his old lady, knocking her to

the floor --

Thomas charges into Dennis like an angry midget.  Kevin jumps

between them --

Mars steps forward and jerks Thomas into the air.  Mars'

physical presence is suddenly so imposing that everyone stops

fighting --

It takes Dennis a moment to come up to speed with that, but

then he nods --

Mars nods his approval.  Subtly, there is the beginning of a

shift in power --

INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Mars pushes Jennifer inside.  Kevin follows her with duct

tape and a couple of extension cords.  Mars, holding Thomas,

pauses in the hall --

Mars disappears with Thomas down the hall.  Jennifer stands

by the chair, arms once more crossed over her breasts.

Kevin can see that she's scared.  He takes a T-shirt from

where she's left it on the floor and hands it to her --

She pulls it over her head --

Jennifer sits.  Kevin pulls her hands behind the back of the

chair.  As he ties her, Jennifer decides that if any of them

can be reached, it's Kevin --

Kevin leans back.  He knows she's right, but he doesn't

believe he can do anything about it --

A shadow moves behind Kevin.  It's Mars, standing in the

door.  He holds up a wicked claw hammer --

He enters and tests at Jennifer's binds --

As Kevin reties the bindings, Mars rips the phone from the

wall.  He smashes the phone jack with the hammer, crushing

it.  Then he goes to the window and drives a heavy nail into

the sill, nailing the window closed --

Mars returns to Jennifer and once more checks her binds --

He tears off a strip of duct tape and presses it over her

mouth --

Mars rubs his fingers hard over the tape covering her mouth.

He massages the tape into her skin, slow, sensual --

Jennifer looks at Kevin, her eyes pleading that he not leave,

but Kevin is cowed; he leaves --

Jennifer looks back at Mars --

Mars leans close to her.  She is terrified that he is going

to kiss her, but, instead, he sniffs, smelling her --

Mars hooks the claw hammer under his shirt and lifts to

expose his chest.  A large tattoo in flowing script is lined

across his body:  A Mother's Son.

Mars points out hard gray knots that speckle his chest as if

he were diseased.  He fingers the lumps sensuously as if

touching them excites him --

Jennifer is both disgusted and terrified.  Mars stares at her

emptily for another moment, then lowers his shirt and leaves

without another word.

INT. THOMAS'S ROOM -- NIGHT

The room is dark.  Thomas is tied firmly to the bed.  The

cords cut into Thomas's wrists and Thomas can't reach the

knots, but Mars made one mistake:  He tied Thomas to the

headboard posts, and one of the newels has been loose for

years --

Thomas stretches against the ropes to reach the newel, then

twists it back and forth.  He works it harder and harder

until the newel slides off its pin, and suddenly his hand is

free, though still tied to the newel --

Thomas peels the tape from his mouth, then unties the

remaining binds and frees himself from the newel.  He slips

off his bed and crawls along the wall to his closet --

INT. THOMAS'S CLOSET -- NIGHT

A service hatch that opens into the attic crawlspace is built

into the wall beneath Thomas's clothes.  Thomas prys open the

hatch, then reaches inside for a small flashlight.  He flicks

it on, then climbs into the eaves of the roof --

INT. CRAWLSPACE -- NIGHT

The crawlspace is a long triangular tunnel that follows the

edge of the roof.  It was built for plumbers and air

conditioning technicians, but Thomas has taken the space for

his own:  Witness the stack of Penthouse, pictures of sports

heroes tacked to the rafters, and old soda cans strewn

between the joists --

Thomas scurries quietly through the tunnel, heading for --

INT. JENNIFER'S CLOSET -- NIGHT

Thomas pushes through a hatch identical to the one in his own

closet, then creeps to the door --

INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Jennifer twists around to see him, mumbling through the tape --

Jennifer quiets.  Thomas slips out of the closet and creeps

toward her along the wall --

Thomas reaches up from behind Jennifer and jerks the tape off

her mouth --

Thomas is hiding behind Jennifer so that the camera cannot

see him --

Thomas thinks about that and decides that he can't leave

their father, either --

Thomas suddenly realizes what he has to do --

Jennifer jerks so hard that she almost tips over the chair --

Thomas slaps the tape back over her mouth.  Jennifer

struggles helplessly as Thomas slips back into the closet,

and is gone --

EXT. YORK ESTATES -- STREET -- NIGHT

The Sheriff's Crisis Response Team rolls through the streets

like an invading army:  A brown sedan leads a huge van known

as the Mobile Command Post, which is followed by a Sheriff's

SWAT support vehicle, two SWAT Suburbans, and four radio

units.

Pools of light from the helicopters follow their progress --

EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT

Talley walks out to meet the lead vehicle as the convoy

stops.  Up and down the row, uniformed Sheriffs pile out of

their vehicles and off-load their gear --

Two people climb out of the lead car:  Will Maddox, a

bespectacled African-American Sheriff's SWAT negotiator, and

Captain Laura Martin, the CRT commander --

Maddox turns away to bark orders into his shoulder mike --

Talley and Martin hurry toward her troops --

INT. THE SMITHS' GARAGE -- NIGHT

The garage is dark, lit only by the light that comes from the

kitchen's open door, as Dennis, Mars and a reluctant Kevin

enter --

Dennis shows them a small casement window, and pushes open

the window to reveal a thick hedge --

Mars says it so simply that the moment is frozen.  Mars is

holding the big claw hammer, kneading it as if it was a

living thing.  His face is masked by shadows, but his eyes

both glow as if already reflecting flame --

INT. CRAWLSPACE ABOVE THE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

We see Dennis, Kevin, and Mars through a slit overhead as

they emerge from the garage and move back into the house --

Thomas is watching them.  He has cracked open the service

hatch in the laundry room ceiling to make sure that his way

is clear --

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

The room is dark.  When Dennis and the others are gone, the

ceiling hatch lifts, and Thomas lets himself down.  He slides

onto the washing machine and then to the floor --

Thomas cups one hand over his flashlight and turns it on.  He

lets light leak through his fingers so that he can see.  The

beam cuts across a door to the garage, car keys on key hooks,

and Jennifer's purse hanging from one of the hooks --

INT. HOBBY ROOM -- NIGHT

This is a small room off the end of the laundry with a work

bench, a stool, and shelves above the bench for Walter's

hobby supplies --

Thomas shines the light over the shelves, spotting the hard

plastic pistol case on the highest shelf.  That's the target;

that's the goal --

Thomas uses the stool to climb onto the bench --

INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Dennis is in the doorway to the security closet, handing out

one of the money bags to Kevin --

Kevin drops the bag and tries to reason with his brother --

Dennis abruptly grabs Kevin by the throat, his face hard with

fury --

Dennis glares at Kevin another moment, then lets go and steps

back into the closet --

INT. THE CLOSET -- NIGHT

Dennis lifts the second bag of cash when the monitors catch

his eye:  The Sheriffs SWAT unit can be seen moving into

position.  Dennis totally freaks --

Dennis drops the cash and bolts out of the closet --

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Mars is placing two buckets of gasoline in the hall as Dennis

and Kevin pound down the hall --

Dennis runs to the French doors.  He sees lights at the rear

of the property and SHOOTS through the glass --

Dennis FIRES AGAIN and runs for the stairs --

INT. HOBBY ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas is straining to reach the pistol which is a fraction

of an inch beyond his grasp when he hears Dennis shouting --

Thomas glances helplessly at the gun case--so near, yet so

far--then scrambles off the bench and --

INT. LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas is climbing onto the washing machine when he once more

sees Jennifer's purse hanging on a key hook --

Thomas jumps from the washer, grabs the purse, then scrambles

into the ceiling as GUNSHOTS ECHO through the house --

EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT

Martin, Maddox, and her supervisors are gathered around

Talley when the gunshots crack across the neighborhood --

Radio transmissions crackle over Martin's radio --

Talley immediately knows what's happening, and he knows why --

Talley sprints toward the cul-de-sac --

INT. CRAWLSPACE -- NIGHT

Thomas races through the narrow black tunnel.  He slips off

the rafters and almost falls through the ceiling.  He's

losing precious time --

INT. THE STAIRWELL -- NIGHT

Dennis and Mars pound up the stairs, getting closer to his

room --

INT. THE CRAWLSPACE -- NIGHT

Thomas pushes his way into his closet --

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT

Dennis and Mars reach the second floor --

INT. THOMAS' ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas scrambles into bed just before Dennis jerks open the

door.  Dennis drags him off the bed and carries him out of

the room --

EXT. CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT

Talley, Martin, and Maddox run into position behind a

Sheriff's unit where a deputy has set up the dedicated crisis

phone --

Talley grabs up the phone --

Talley doesn't wait for the confused deputy to answer; he

presses the button in the handle that dials the phone --

The phone rings in Talley's ear --

The phone is still ringing.  Talley pulls the mike from the

deputy's car and speaks over the public address --

INT. SMITH'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Dennis is holding Thomas around the neck, using the boy as a

shield.  Kevin is cowering on the floor and Mars is holding

Jennifer.  Dennis snatches up the phone --

Intercut Talley outside --

Talley takes a deep breath; he forces himself to speak

quietly, calmly --

Dennis peers out the front.  Talley's careful manner is

calming him --

Talley mutes the phone to speak to Martin --

Talley glances at Maddox.  Maddox nods, his expression saying

that Talley was right --

Maddox nods at Martin; he's good to go --

Dennis can't help himself; he laughs --

Talley hands the phone to Maddox, who moves past Talley for a

better view of the house.  Talley looks grimly at Martin --

Talley is moving away when his radio pops --

Talley closes his phone and continues away --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Dennis and Kevin are at the television, watching an aerial

view of the Sheriffs deploying around the house.  Jennifer

and Thomas are huddled by their father --

Mars enters carrying candles and flashlights.  He lights a

candle and place it on a table --

Mars tosses a flashlight to Dennis --

Dennis returns to the shutters as Mars and Kevin take the

kids --

INT. THOMAS' ROOM -- NIGHT

Mars shoves Thomas into the room, then lifts the claw hammer.

For an instant, we think he's going to hit the boy--but he

smashes off the door knob, instead.

Mars glares at Thomas, then pulls the door closed.  The knob

on Thomas's side is gone; there's no way for Thomas to open

the door.

But that's okay by Thomas.  He waits until he's sure that

Mars is gone, and then he hurries back to his closet --

INT. THOMAS' CLOSET -- NIGHT

Thomas pulls open the hatch, fishes out his flashlight, then

dumps the contents of Jennifer's purse on the floor.

He picks up her cell phone.

INT. MRS. PENA'S BATHROOM -- NIGHT

Talley closes his eyes with a blissful expression as a

familiar sound fills the bathroom; he's taking a piss.

His radio crackles --

Talley finishes his business, and keys his mike --

Now Talley is worried.  He pulls out his phone and punches

the speed dial.  It rings only once --

Intercut Louise, at her desk outside Talley's office --

Talley worries it only for a moment --

Talley pushes out of the bathroom into --

INT. MRS. PENA'S FAMILY ROOM -- NIGHT

He flags Leigh Metzger as he cups the phone --

As Metzger hurries away, we intercut Thomas, hiding in the

shadows on his bed, whispering so as not to be overheard --

Talley can tell by the tremor in the boy's voice--this is for

real --

Talley hurries to a large sketch of the Smiths' floor plan

laid out on the dining room table --

Martin enters with Leigh Metzger.  Talley cups the phone to

give her the headline --

Thomas hears someone outside his door --

Thomas hangs up, jamming his phone behind the bed --

Talley lowers the phone --

Talley finally nods --

Talley looks like the most tired guy in the world.  He nods

his good-night, then turns away --

INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT

Talley slides into his car outside Mrs. Pena's home.  He's

got a lot on his mind, and not all of it centers around 455

Castle Way.  He punches a number into his cell phone --

He listens to ringing, and then his own voice answers --

We hear the beep, then --

No one answers.  Talley closes his phone, his apprehension

increasing --

EXT. YORK ESTATES FRONT GATE -- NIGHT

The Bristo officers manning the gate swing the blockade aside

and wave Talley through --

EXT. MEDIA AREA -- NIGHT

The assembled television microwave vans, radio newsvans, and

reporters are parked together in an empty lot one block from

the front gate.

Ken Seymore steps into the street, speaking into a cell phone

as he watches Talley drive away --

EXT. RED LIGHT INTERSECTION -- DAY

A traffic light on the outskirts of town, deserted until

Talley's car pulls to a stop --

INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT

Suddenly, two masked men point guns at his head, one from the

driver's side, one from the passengers.  They're wearing

jackets, black ski masks, and gloves.  The man on the

passenger side sports a big gold Rolex, so we'll call him the

Watchman --

Talley freezes.  He's been blindsided by this insane shit,

but he knows better than to move --

The man on the driver's side gets into the backseat, then the

Watchman gets into the passenger side.  The man behind Talley

hooks an arm around Talley's throat while the Watchman

searches for Talley's gun --

The Watchman nods at the backseater, who releases Talley.

A dark green Mustang roars up ahead of Talley's car.  A

second car tucks in tight on Talley's rear --

The Mustang pulls out, and Talley follows.

EXT. A DESERTED ALLEY -- NIGHT

The three cars turn into the alley.  They stop, the first and

last cars bumper-to-bumper with Talley's.  The cars are so

close to Talley that his own vehicle is pinned; he couldn't

drive away now even if he wanted --

INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT

The Watchman puts Talley's car in park, turns off the

ignition, and takes the key.

Two more masked men approach from the other cars, one coming

to Talley's window, the other getting into the back seat

behind the Watchman.

The three men take hold of Talley, the man behind again

looping his arm around Talley's neck, the other two each

twisting Talley's arms --

The Watchman holds a distinctive white cell phone to Talley's

ear --

Talley goes berserk.  He bucks and tries to pull away, but

the three men hold tight --

The Watchman closes the phone --

Talley can barely breathe, they're holding him so tight --

The Watchman glances at the men; they let go --

The Watchman holds up a thick black Zip disk.  Talley's

expression tells us that this is the weirdest shit he's ever

heard --

The Watchman puts the white cell phone into Talley's hand --

The Watchman and the others get out of Talley's car.  The

doors slam shut.  The Watchman leans in --

The Watchman tosses the keys into Talley's lap.  We hear car

doors open and close; the cars, front and back, roar to life

and speed away --

Talley focuses on the Mustang's license plate, frantically

scratching down the number --

INT. BRISTO CAMINO POLICE DEPARTMENT -- NIGHT

The place is deserted except for Louise, currently at her

desk to monitor radio communications.

Talley enters, looking as if he's stricken.  Louise can't

help herself but to react --

Talley barely glances at her, going directly to his office --

INT. TALLEY'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

Talley steps inside and peels off his uniform shirt.  He

takes a bullet-resistant vest and a black sweatshirt from his

closet.  He straps on the vest, then pulls on the sweatshirt.

Talley sits at his desk and lifts out a ballistic nylon

pistol case from the lower drawer.

He takes out his old SWAT combat piece:  This isn't a pussy

9mm; it's a finely tuned .45-caliber Colt Model 1911.  One

shot, one kill.  Talley ejects the empty magazine, then loads

it with a deadly efficiency.  He slams home the magazine --

Talley clips the gun to his belt under his sweatshirt.  He's

ready to rock.  The camera finds the photograph of Talley

during his days as a SWAT tactical officer --

He was one bad motherfucker.

INT. THE MAIN ROOM -- NIGHT

Talley heads for the front door --

Talley exits without a backward glance --

EXT. YORK ESTATES FRONT GATE -- NIGHT

The helicopters orbit in the distance; the empty lot with the

news vans is in the background.

Talley turns into the development, then stops at the side of

the street where Larry Anders is waiting --

INT. TALLEY'S CAR -- NIGHT

Anders slides into the passenger seat.  He sees a different

Talley now, focused and grim --

Talley stares at Anders, trying to decide:  Can I trust him?

Will he rat me out to the Watchman and cost the lives of my

wife and child?

Talley gives him a slip of paper --

Anders glances at the slip again, then tucks it away --

Anders climbs out and Talley rockets away --

EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT

Talley pulls up behind the Sheriffs' command van.  Martin,

surprised to see Talley, steps from the van --

Martin is surprised and angry --

Talley heads for the cul-de-sac --

INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Jennifer is on her bed in the darkness, groggy with fear and

fatigue.  She hears someone outside in the hall --

The door knob rattles.  Jennifer slides out of bed and goes

to the door --

The door suddenly opens, and Mars is framed in the dim light.

Jennifer jumps back, terrified --

That seems so outlandish that Jennifer is confused --

Mars grabs her hair, and pushes her out the door --

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Mars shoves Jennifer into the kitchen.  Two frozen pizzas are

waiting on the counter --

Mars takes a carton of eggs and a package of hot dogs from

the refrigerator --

Jennifer takes a bowl from the cupboard.  When she sets down

the bowl, she sees the handle of the paring knife by the food

processor.  Jennifer breaks eggs into the bowl --

As soon as Mars turns away, Jennifer palms the knife and

pushes it into the waist of her shorts --

EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT

Talley joins Maddox behind the car --

Talley picks up the dedicated crisis phone that's been cut

into the Smiths' telephone line.  He lifts the receiver and

presses a button.  The phone inside the house rings --

Intercut Dennis inside Smith's office.  He answers --

Dennis shoots a nervous glance at Walter, who's twitching and

shuddering on the couch --

Maddox can't believe that Talley is saying this --

Maddox grabs Talley's arm, his voice a low hiss --

Talley pushes Maddox away and amps the pressure on Dennis --

Dennis is freaking.  He believes that the Sheriffs are about

to crash through the doors --

Now Talley throttles back; he senses that Dennis is at the

breaking point and wants to coax him back from the edge --

Dennis finally makes the admission --

Talley gives a thumbs-up to Maddox, who sits back in awe.

This crazy shit is working --

Dennis is at the edge; he's looking straight down into his

deepest fears.  He finally relents --

Dennis slams down the phone --

Talley lowers the crisis phone, then looks at Maddox --

EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC -- A FEW MINUTES LATER

Mobile banks of flood lamps illuminate the front of the

house.  The ambulance waits behind the lights; tactical

officers with M5s and M16s hunker in position in case the

program goes south --

Talley and a paramedic named Bigelow emerge between the

lights, wearing only shorts and shoes.  Bigelow is carrying a

collapsable stretcher --

They stop in the mouth of the drive with a full view of the

front door.  Talley lifts his cell phone --

The front door opens, a crack at first, then wider.  The line

of officers behind the lights shifts --

Kevin and Mars waddle out with Walter Smith between them.

They put him down about six feet from the front door, then

return to the house --

Talley and Bigelow move forward.  When they reach Walter,

Bigelow opens the stretcher and locks out the frame.  He

peels back Walter's eyelids and flashes a penlight --

As Bigelow sets a cervical neck brace, Talley gets the creepy

feeling that he's being watched.  He turns toward the

shutters, and finds a pair of eyes only inches from his own.

It's Mars.

Talley stares at Mars, and Mars stares back.  It's as if

they're locked in a contest of wills until --

Talley turns away to help Bigelow --

As they carry Walter away, Talley glances back at the eyes.

Mars is still watching him --

IN THE CUL-DE-SAC--TALLEY AND BIGELOW

are surrounded by cops as soon as they step into the shadows

behind the lights.  Another paramedic takes the stretcher

from Talley.  Maddox is waiting with Talley's clothes --

Talley pulls on his pants --

Talley stalks straight to the ambulance, pulling on his

sweatshirt as he goes --

INT. THE AMBULANCE -- NIGHT

A young physician named Klaus is examining Walter as Talley

steps up into the ambulance --

Talley ignores the doctor and shakes Walter by the face --

Walter's eyes flutter, one more open than the other.  Talley

leans closer --

Klaus tries to shove Talley away, but it's like pushing a

wall --

Talley grabs Klaus by the arm, trying to make him see --

Bigelow climbs behind the wheel and starts the ambulance.

Talley pounds on the wall, shouting --

Klaus and Bigelow are both staring at Talley.  Sheriffs and

Talley's own officers have gathered at the open rear of the

ambulance to see what all the shouting is about --

Klaus pointedly looks at Talley's hand gripping his arm.  He

speaks slowly, trying to make Talley understand --

Talley stares at Walter Smith.  So close.  So damned close.

Walter knows about the disks.  Walter might even know who has

Jane and Amanda.  But now Walter can't talk --

Talley turns away and climbs out of the ambulance --

EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT

As Talley emerges from the van, he pulls Metzger aside --

As Metzger hurries after the ambulance, a phone in Talley's

pocket rings.  He's startled and scared; it might be the

Watchman.  Talley takes out the Watchman's white phone, but

it's not ringing.

He answers his other phone --

Talley notices that Martin, Maddox, and the others are

staring at him.  He turns away --

Talley lowers the phone in frustration, then --

Talley pockets his phone.  He watches the ambulance pull

away, then strides back through the banks of lights to the

nearest patrol car.  He grabs the dash mike and keys the

public address --

Talley's voice echoes across the neighborhood.  Every cop in

the cul-de-sac stares at him.  He has addressed the house

for, apparently, no reason.  Dennis shouts from his window --

Talley drops the mike without a word and walks away --

INT. GLEN HOWELL'S MOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT

Howell is on the phone with Ken Seymore, watching the

televised news coverage with increasing alarm --

Intercut Seymore, who is reporting from the York front gate

as the ambulance roars away, siren wailing --

Howell slams down the phone.  He breathes deeply, taking a

moment to center himself.  He lifts the phone and punches a

number --

EXT. COMMAND STREET -- NIGHT

Talley is by himself, pacing at the curb well away from the

other officers.  He is holding his cell phone.  Waiting.

Finally, it rings.  Talley answers, listens, then --

Intercut Thomas, phoning Talley in his room --

Talley absorbs the bad news like his last best hope of saving

his family is circling the drain --

Talley thinks about what the boy is saying, and what he'll

have to do to get Marlon and Al --

Talley glances toward the SWAT Command Van as he comes up

with a plan --

EXT. THE COMMAND VAN -- NIGHT

Martin, Maddox, and several of her supervisors are gathered

outside the van as Talley approaches --

Martin sees him coming and steps away to meet him.  She's

pissed off and she wants answers --

Talley glares at her, half-a-heartbeat from going off, and

then he throttles back --

Martin weighs the determination in his eyes.  She's angry,

she's resentful, and she wants to knock Talley onto his ass--

but, instead, she glances back to her van --

INT. SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT

Dennis steps through the double doors that open from the

entry and admires the room--rich paneled walls, soft leather

couches and chairs, and a lush beaten-copper bar.  Walter

Smith's office is directly across the hall.

Dennis saunters behind the bar, letting his fingers play over

the copper, then pours a stiff Ketel One on the rocks.

Kevin appears behind him, watching, as Dennis takes a seat on

one of the leather bar stools, then peels a hundred off a

thick roll and drops it on the bar --

Dennis takes a deep drink of the vodka as Kevin approaches --

Dennis enjoys another stiff belt --

Dennis grins as if he's discovered the wisdom of the ages --

Mars is standing in the doors, large and ominous.  For an

insane moment Dennis thinks that Mars has heard, but then --

Dennis grins, then shoves Kevin out of the room ahead of him,

the three of them disappearing toward the kitchen as --

The camera drifts up to an air vent in the ceiling, through

the slats in the grate to --

INT. CRAWLSPACE -- NIGHT

Thomas watches them leave through a hole in the air duct.

When he's confident that they are gone, he continues along

the crawlspace to a service hatch that opens down into --

INT. WINE CELLAR - NIGHT

The "wine cellar" is a climate-controlled closet behind the

bar fitted with floor-to-ceiling wine racks.

The ceiling hatch lifts, and Thomas climbs down the racks to

the floor.  He eases open the door and peeks out behind the

bar.  The den is bright with light, and empty --

Thomas lifts his cell phone --

EXT. SMITHS' REAR WALL -- NIGHT

Talley, Maddox, and several tactical officers are lined along

the rear wall, watching the house.  Talley, with a phone to

his ear, is looking through a night-vision scope --

He can see into the kitchen through the French doors.  Mars

and Jennifer are inside, and, as we watch, Dennis and Kevin

enter --

Talley hands the scope to Maddox, then keys his radio mike --

INT. SMITHS' KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Dennis and Kevin are digging into plates of pizza and eggs

when the house goes dark --

The backyard ERUPTS; explosions from Starflash grenades JUMP

and CAREEN over the swimming pool like New Year fireworks.

It sounds like World War III --

Dennis throws himself behind the kitchen counter --

INT. THE DEN -- NIGHT

The house now dark, Thomas scurries to the double doors.  He

peeks around the corner to see if the coast is clear, then

darts across the hall to --

INT. WALTER'S OFFICE -- NIGHT

The office is lit only by the flickering candles.  Thomas

checks his father's computer--no disks.  He searches through

the papers scattered over the desk, but finds nothing --

Then he opens the drawer --

The disk case that his father put there earlier is waiting.

Thomas opens the case --

Marlon.  Al.

He found them.

INT. THE KITCHEN -- NIGHT

The Starflash grenades burn out as Talley's amplified voice

echoes into the house --

Mars lurches to his feet and hurries to the office --

INT. THE OFFICE -- NIGHT

Thomas is heading for the door when he hears footsteps coming

fast toward the office --

Thomas reverses course and ducks under the desk.  He pulls

himself into a ball and tries not to breathe --

Mars is in the room.

The desk is a great oak monster, big as a boat.  It sits on

curvy legs that leave a gap between the desk and the floor.

Thomas can see feet --

The feet go to the windows --

The feet turn toward the desk.  Thomas tries to squeeze

himself smaller --

The feet come to the desk --

The feet hesitate, then, finally, walk away --

Thomas scrambles from under the desk and darts across the

hall --

EXT. THE BACKYARD -- NIGHT

Talley approaches the house.  He can see flashlights moving

in the kitchen --

Dennis doesn't answer, so Talley moves closer.  He spreads

his hands wide --

Dennis comes to the French doors.  He stuffs his pistol into

his pants, and opens the doors --

Dennis considers that and accepts it.  He steps out of the

house and walks over to Talley --

Dennis Rooney steps closer because he doesn't want anyone

else to see the wad of money he pulls out --

Dennis pushes the money back into his pocket.

So that's what keeps Dennis in the house--money.  This is the

first that Talley has heard of the money --

Talley stares at Dennis, wondering how much to tell him and

whether or not it will do any good --

These simple facts settle on Dennis like a funeral shroud--

everything that Smith said earlier now makes a horrible

sense:  You can't imagine the fucking you're going to get.

Dennis's eyes fill with defeat and helplessness --

Dennis steps inside and pulls the door closed, the darkness

in the house swallowing him like dirty water.

The power is turned on.  The house comes to life --

As Talley turns away, his phone once more rings --

INT. THOMAS' ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas is hunkered with his computer behind his bed so that

the camera can't see him.

Intercut Talley, now back in the cul-de-sac --

Thomas scrolls through a spread sheet --

Thomas changes disks and opens Al --

Thomas abruptly hangs up and the line goes dead in Talley's

ear.

Talley recognizes the name as easily as an East Coast cop

would recognize John Gotti, and realizes the stunning import

of Smith possessing Sonny Benza's financial records --

Talley sprints across the cul-de-sac to his nearest officer,

Jorgenson, and keys Jorgenson's shoulder mike --

Talley drops the mike and shoves Jorgenson toward the car --

EXT. CANYON COUNTRY HOSPITAL -- NIGHT

Marion Clewes is stepping from his car as Talley's police

unit rips into the parking lot with flashing lights --

Marion watches Talley and Jorgenson rush into the ER, then he

frowns and punches the speed dial on his phone --

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM CORRIDOR -- NIGHT

Talley and Jorgenson huddle in the hall with Klaus and the ER

supervisor, Dr. Estelle Reese.  Metzger is outside Walter's

room in the background --

Metzger steps into Walter's room, then reappears --

Talley and Klaus press for the room --

INT. WALTER'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Walter's eyes flutter open.  His voice is slurred, but

understandable --

Klaus peels open Walter's eyes, passing his penlight over

one, then the other --

It takes Walter a few moments to answer --

All of Walter's memories come flooding back, and he tries to

sit up.  Klaus forces him down --

Walter looks at Talley.  He has never seen Talley and has no

idea who he is --

This time, Klaus is hard-pressed to refuse.  He nods, then

steps away --

Talley turns back to Walter Smith, and lowers his voice --

Talley's eyes fill.  His tears drip on the sheets.  Walter

looks away --

Klaus returns and places a hand on Talley's shoulder --

But when he looks back at Walter, he realizes that another

minute will do no good:  Walter's eyes are once more closed.

EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

Talley is pacing by his car in the deserted parking lot.  He

pounds the hood, cursing, awash in rage and frustration --

And then a phone rings.

Talley takes out the phones.  The white phone is ringing.

The Watchman's phone --

Talley answers furiously, the two of them instantaneously

screaming at each other --

A profound silence fills the parking lot, both men now

purged.  When the Watchman speaks again, his voice is

measured --

The line goes dead --

INT. THE SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT

Dennis is pouring another stiff glass of Ketel One --

Kevin joins him at the bar.  Mars is by the doors --

Dennis downs a big hit of vodka, then moves to the couch --

Kevin follows his brother to the couch and stares at him;

Dennis has clearly lost his mind, and Kevin has reached the

end of his rope --

Dennis tips his glass, like a toast --

Kevin slaps the glass away.  Dennis boils up from the couch.

He grabs his brother and the two of them fall over the coffee

table, Dennis hammering Kevin in a furious rage until he runs

out of gas --

Dennis gets up and steps back --

Beaten and whimpering, Kevin crawls away.  Dennis watches him

crawl out of the room, then looks at Mars --

Dennis returns to the bar.  When he looks around again, Mars

is gone--melted into the darkness.

INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Jennifer is hiding in her shadows when her doorknob moves.  She

reaches pulls the knife from her shorts, keeping it hidden as

she backs away --

Kevin steps inside, leaving the door ajar --

Jennifer now sees the marks and cuts on his face --

Kevin goes back to the door, then considers her.  Maybe he

wants to apologize for all this, but the best he can manage

is --

Kevin slips out and pulls the door closed.

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL -- NIGHT

As Kevin emerges from the room, he comes face-to-face with --

Mars.

Mars is a great black shadow in the dark, only inches away.

Kevin steps back --

Kevin takes another step back, but Mars follows him, staying

uncomfortably close --

Mars seems thoughtful, steps aside --

Kevin expected Mars to stop him, but Mars is letting him go.

Kevin turns away and hurries down the hall --

EXT. YORK ESTATES MAIN ENTRANCE -- NIGHT

Talley is returning to the hospital.  As he turns into York

Estates, he's stopped by one of his officers, Dale Cooper.

Talley rolls down his window to see what Cooper wants --

Talley nods, and continues through the gate --

EXT. STREET -- NIGHT

Two gray Econoline vans are parked at the curb beneath a

street light, four men in the lead van, two in the rear.

Talley pulls up behind them, then gets out of his car.  He

walks up the middle of the street to the lead van, eyeballing

the men in the vans:  They all have short haircuts and are

wearing black tactical fatigues.  Some of them wear ball caps

that say FBI.

The man in the passenger seat, Mr. Jones, gets out.  He looks

the part of FBI SWAT:  black tac fatigues, jump boots, buzzed

hair.  A pistol hangs under his left arm in a ballistic

holster --

Talley takes out his wallet and flashes his photo ID.  Jones

does the same in return --

Jones slaps the side of the van.  Doors open, and the

remaining five men climb out.  They strap into vests with FBI

emblazoned on the back, then pass out load-bearing gear, knit

masks, and flash-bang grenades.

The men at the second van are now passing out MP5s, CAR-15s,

and loaded magazines --

One of the other men hands an MP5 to Mr. Jones.  Jones

jacks the bolt to chamber a round.  He slings his gun without

answering --

Jones walks away, and all Talley can do is follow --

EXT. MARS KRUPCHEK'S TRAILER -- NIGHT

We're at the end of a gravel road in the low foothills of

Pearblossom, a farm community of fruit orchards in the low

foothills.

A Bristo Camino police car pulls up outside a thirty-foot

Caravan trailer, and Mikkelson and Dreyer get out.  Mikkelson

lights up the trailer with the radio car's spotlight --

The trailer is dark and silent.  They walk to the door

carrying their Maglites.  Mikkelson tries the knob --

Mikkelson pulls hard and the door pops open.  Both officers

cringe as a smell like simmering mustard greens rolls out at

them --

INT. THE TRAILER -- NIGHT

Mikkelson switches on the lights as they step inside.  Dreyer

sees it first --

Mikkelson joins Dreyer in the trailer's tiny kitchen where

teetering stacks of folded cereal boxes fill the counters and

sink and floor.  Hundreds and hundreds of Captain Crunch and

Count Chocula boxes, all neatly folded and stacked --

Dreyer shows her a box.  The nose of each character has been

burned with a cigarette --

Mikkelson opens the oven.  It's empty.  She opens a cupboard.

It's filled with large glass jars.  She opens another

cupboard.  More jars.  Shapes float in the jars, suspended in

yellow fluid.  Mikkelson and Dreyer examine the shapes --

Mikkelson opens the fridge, then slams it, looking like she

wants to puke --

Dreyer sees the expression on her face, then looks at the

fridge, wondering --

EXT. CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT

Talley, Jones, and Jones's phony "FBI" team are moving down

the cul-de-sac toward the house with Martin at their heels --

Martin looks like she wants to spit bullets --

Martin relents and stalks away just as Talley's phone rings.

Both Talley and Jones tense at the ring, thinking it might be

the white phone, but it's not --

EXT. KRUPCHEK'S TRAILER -- NIGHT

Both Mikkelson and Dreyer are leaning against their car.

They look shellshocked.  Mikkelson is making the call --

She trails off and looks at Dreyer for help:  How do I say

this?  Dreyer, at a loss, looks away --

Mikkelson can't handle it any more.  She lowers the phone --

WITH TALLEY

The shock that Mikkelson is feeling sweeps over Talley as

well.  He takes a moment to get his head around this --

Talley lowers the phone as he stares at the house, wondering

what sort of monster is in there with Thomas and Jennifer.

His gaze shifts to Mr. Jones, who is watching him --

INT. THE SMITHS' DEN -- NIGHT

Dennis is sprawled on the couch, sucking the last few drops

of Ketel One from the bottle.  He frowns at the empty bottle,

then lumbers to his feet --

Dennis weaves through the door, carrying the empty bottle

like his dearest friend --

INT. THE KITCHEN -- NIGHT

Dennis staggers into the kitchen --

The voice from the other side of the kitchen startles him.

Mars steps out of the shadows --

Mars cross the kitchen and goes for the stairs without

another word --

Dennis throws the bottle across the room --

INT. THE HOBBY ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas is scared by all the shouting, but he waits in the

darkness until Dennis quiets, and then we notice that he is

no longer in his room; he's in the hobby room, once more

trying to reach the gun --

Thomas stacks two phone books on the bench, then uses the

phone books as an extra step to reach the high shelf --

He can finally reach the gun case!  He puts it on the bench,

then climbs down, and opens the case.  Thomas is bouyant with

confidence; now, he can protect himself and his sister!

Thomas shoves the gun into his pants and creeps back into --

INT. THE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas is climbing onto the washing machine when his foot

slips and he bangs his head --

It's so dark in ehre that Thomas can't see what made him

slip, but he tests the floor.  His shoe makes a tacky sound.

Thomas cups his hand over his flashlight like before, and

turns it on.  A dark liquid like oil is spreading on the

floor.

Thomas follows it with his light to the broom closet.  He

lets out more light and sees that the oil is red.

Thomas knows that something terrible is behind the door, but

he is drawn to it.  He reaches out --

Kevin's lifeless body topples out, collapsing in a heap at

Thomas's feet.  His neck is cut so deeply that his head is

almost severed --

His eyes are open.

Thomas screams!

INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Jennifer is anxiously waiting for Kevin.  When she hears

someone in the hall, she thinks that it's Kevin, but when the

door opens --

It's Mars.

He steps inside, tall, wide, and massive as a bear.  He's

carrying the claw hammer.  Jennifer backs away --

Mars turns off the lights.

Jennifer grows even more frightened.  Mars follows her across

the room until she backs into the window --

When Mars reaches her, he touches the hammer to the chest,

pressing to make it hurt --

Mars rakes the claws slowly between her breasts as Jennifer

finds the knife in her shorts.  She jerks free the blade and

stabs blindly burying the knife high in his chest, but Mars

doesn't even step back --

He grips the handle, moaning hideously as he pulls out the

knife.  A red flower blossoms from the wound.

Jennifer tries to get past him, but he grabs her throat and

pins her to the wall --

He raises the knife to her face --

INT. KITCHEN -- NIGHT

The scream from the laundry room having scared the shit out

of Dennis, he has his gun out --

Dennis turns on his flashlight and sweeps the beam across the

kitchen --

Dennis weaves across the kitchen, pushing the gun ahead of

him --

Dennis steps through the door into --

INT. THE LAUNDRY ROOM -- NIGHT

Dennis shines the light on the floor and sees the red ooze.

He follows the blood to Kevin's body, but even then doesn't

realize what he's seeing --

Dennis steps closer, and now he sees the open neck, the

grotesque white bone within the flesh --

Only one other person in the house could have done this --

Dennis hears Jennifer screaming upstairs --

Dennis rushes from the room --

INT. JENNIFER'S ROOM -- NIGHT

Dennis slams through the door so heard that the door crashes

into the wall.  Mars is across the room, still holding

Jennifer by the neck --

Dennis aims his gun --

Mars calmly pulls the girl in front of him, blocking Dennis's

aim.

It's weird the way Mars is acting, so calm and all.  But

Dennis can see the feat in Jennifer's face and her swollen

eyes.  She manages one word --

Dennis tries to aim past her --

Jennifer sobs.  And when she does --

Mars charges across the room holding Jennifer like a shield.

Dennis hesitates only a heartbeat, and then it's too late --

Jennifer crashes into him, the full force of Mars's weight

behind her, knocking Dennis backward into the hall --

INT. SECOND FLOOR HALL -- NIGHT

They fall through the door into a tangle on the floor.  Mars

raises the hammer, then brings it down, smashing Dennis over

and over --

INT. JENNIFER'S BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Thomas emerges from the closet to see the carnage in the

hall:  Mars over Dennis, grunting like a pig as he turns

Dennis into pulp, and Jennifer crawling away, splattered with

blood --

Thomas pulls the gun from his pants and darts past Mars into

the hall --

INT. UPSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT

Thomas grabs Jennifer's arm and pulls her toward the stairs --

Mars heaves to his feet and turns after them --

Thomas jerks up the pistol with both hands --

Mars stops, blood dripping from his face and hands and the

hammer.  Jennifer pulls her brother --

They back toward the stairs, Thomas trying to hold the gun

steady.  Mars follows, spreading his arms wide as if to

embrace them --

Mars keeps coming --

Thomas pulls the trigger.  Click.

Mars stops, frozen by the sharp sound --

Thomas pulls again.  Click click click --

No bullets.

Thomas and Jennifer sprint for the stairs --

INT. FRONT ENTRY -- NIGHT

Jennifer and Thomas crash down the stairs and spill into the

entry.  Thomas goes to the front door but Jennifer pulls him

away --

They race away down the hall just as Mars reaches the bottom

of the stairs --

INT. THE SMITHS' BEDROOM -- NIGHT

Mars is closing.  Jennifer and Thomas scramble through the

bedroom only paces ahead of him.  They run straight into --

INT. THE SAFE ROOM -- NIGHT

Jennifer and Thomas slam the door and throw the bolts just as

Mars crashes into the door --

Jennifer and Thomas have made it.  They are shaking and

scared, but they are safe.

Mars pounds on the door with the hammer.  They can see him on

the monitors.  Slow rhythmic pounding.  Then he walks away --

They can see him on the monitors--moving through the hall,

going into the entry....

Mars picks up a bucket of gasoline.  He splashes gas on the

walls and floor all the way back to the bedroom, and then he

empties the bucket on the security room's door --

Mars looks up at the camera again and takes out a match.  He

flicks it with his thumbnail and it flares --

Mars tosses the match, and the room erupts into flame --

EXT. THE CUL-DE-SAC -- NIGHT

Talley is arguing with Jones, trying to convince the man that

they need to move into the house now --

Talley's phone rings.  Again, they both think that it's the

white phone, but instead it's Talley's personal phone --

It's Thomas.  His voice cuts in and out, broken by static --

Thomas' phone cuts out.  Talley turns toward the house and

sees a growing column of smoke.  He looks back at Jones --

Talley hurries away.  Jones stares after him, then comes to

his own agonized decision.  He catches up --

Talley accepts that; they move toward the house --

EXT. THE SMITHS' HOUSE -- NIGHT

The banks of floodlights abruptly shut off, plunging the

house and grounds into darkness --

INT. THE MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT

The fire is spreading, following the gasoline trail through

the hall and the rest of the house; a thick layer of smoke

covers the ceiling --

Mars sees that the outside lights have been turned off, and

senses that the cops are making their move.  That's all right

with Mars--he's been waiting to die for most of his life --

Mars checks the load in his pistol, then melts away into the

dark --

A moment later, throbbing music pounds the house --

EXT. SMITHS' HOUSE -- NIGHT

Talley and Jones slip up to a side window at the front of the

house.  Both are carrying fire extinguishers.  They peer

inside, then Jones uses a pry bar to lift the window --

INT. FRONT GUEST ROOM -- NIGHT

Talley enters first, followed by Jones.  The air is thick

with smoke, and the music is confusing; the hall outside the

room is filled with flames --

Talley points toward the bedroom, then uses hand signals to

countdown the launch--three...two...one --

Jones keys his throat mike to launch the strike --

They blast the flames with their fire extinguishers, then

plunge into the hall --

INT. MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT

The sliding glass doors shatter as one of Jones's men

breaches the door.  As he rolls to his feet, Mars shoots him

from the flames --

A second man rolls through the door, and Mars shoots again,

laughing as the man writhes in flames --

INT. HALL -- TALLEY AND JONES

fight back the flames with their fire extinguishers, working

their way into --

INT. THE MASTER BEDROOM -- NIGHT

It's an inferno as Talley and Jones come through the door.

They spot the two men on the floor just as --

Mars rears up behind the flames.  He is shirtless and

glistening, screaming maniacally is he fires his gun --

Talley and Jones fire in unison, pounding Mars with bullets

and knocking him into the fire.  Mars thrashes and screams,

burning alive --

Talley hears pounding inside the safe room:  Jennifer and

Thomas!  He fights his way to the security door, which is

covered with flames --

Talley expects that Jones will help, but Jones is aiming his

gun --

But before Jones can kill Talley, Mars heaves himself up from

the flames, firing wildly.  He hits Jones in the head --

Talley fires reflexively, his powerful .45 kicking Mars

across the room and out the glass doors.  Talley turns back

to the burning door and douses the flames with his fire

extinguisher --

Thomas and Jennifer jerk open the door, but shrink from the

heat.  Talley uses the last of his fire extinguisher, then

pulls them into his arms --

INT. DOWNSTAIRS HALL -- NIGHT

Talley shepherds Jennifer and Thomas past the flames --

INT. THE ENTRY -- NIGHT

They reach the entry, and Talley uses his pry bar to break

open the door --

A wall of cops are out on the street, waiting --

Thomas pulls Marlon and Al from his pocket --

Talley clutches the disks and pulls the boy close in a

spontaneous hug.  They run out the door as we --

INT. WALTER SMITH'S HOSPITAL ROOM -- LATER THAT NIGHT

Walter is resting comfortably when Talley steps up beside his

bed.  Talley is a mess--smokey, dirty, greased with sweat --

Walter opens his eyes, then Talley steps away.  Jennifer and

Thomas are standing behind him.  They rush to their father --

Both children burst into tears, and Walter hugs them.  He

looks up at Talley, then gently eases his kids away --

Walter waits until his children are gone, and then --

EXT. HOSPITAL PARKING LOT -- NIGHT

Talley is alone in his car, his phone to his ear, listening

to the ring at the other end of the line.  A familiar voice

answers --

Intercut Howell in his motel room.  He is thrown by getting

this call --

This throws Howell, too.  He didn't expect anything like

this; not from Talley --

Howell thinks about it.  It's a tough call because Talley

might be setting him up, but they're playing even hands--

Talley still has the disks --

Talley tosses his phone aside, then drives away --

EXT. NEW YORK CITY -- NIGHT

A graphic identifies our location:  New York City.

INT. VICTOR CASTELLANO'S BROWNSTONE -- NIGHT

Victor Castellano is "the old man" that Benza's people have

mentioned.  He is not a happy man in the best of

circumstances and is even less happy now --

Castellano's assistant, Jamie Beldone, is briefing him on

events in the West --

Castellano scowls at the younger man --

Vic Castellano watches Beldone depart as he considers what is

about to come --

EXT. MOTEL -- NIGHT

The motel floats like an island of light in the middle of

nowhere.  A few cars are scattered throughout the quiet

parking lot --

MIKE RUIZ

is hiding in weeds across from the motel, keeping an eye on

the road for Talley's approaching vehicle.  A radio

transmission crackles quietly --

Ruiz keys the mike --

Talley steps silently behind him and presses his gun to Mike

Ruiz's ear --

LOU BUSTER

Buster is on the dark side of thge parking lot, standing watch

outside the pool of light in the shadows --

Gravel crunches behind him; Buster turns, and --

Talley cracks him across the face with his .45 --

WITH TALLEY

He edges along the perimeter of the parking lot, working as

close as he can to a Fat Man who is leaning against the green

Mustang --

The door to a ground floor room opens, and Glen Howell steps

out.  Talley recognizes Howell from the big gold watch --

Howell returns to the room.  The Fat Man steps away from the

Mustang, and --

Talley slams into his blindside, using the .45 as a club.

The Fat Man staggers, and Talley wraps an arm around his neck

in a choke hold, running him at the door --

Talley rams the Fat man into the door, knocking it open and

shoving the Fat Man through --

INT. HOWELL'S MOTEL ROOM -- NIGHT

Talley explodes through the door with the Fat Man in front of

him like a shield --

Glen Howell jerks out his pistol as he drops behind the bed.

Duane Manelli rolls out of a chair, aiming from the floor in

a two-handed grip --

Talley shifts his aim back and forth between the two men.  He

has his back to the wall and the Fat Man in front of him --

All three men are sucking air like freight engines.  No

one is shooting, but if one person fires, everyone will fire.

Everybody has something the other guy wants.  That's the only

thing holding them back --

Howell releases his grip on the gun, and lets it swing free

on his finger.  He's trying to cool Talley --

Howell takes out his phone and presses a number.  Talley

shifts his aim from Howell to the Fat Man to Manelli --

Howell offers the phone, but Talley is wary--he can't let go

of the Fat Man and he won't put down his pistol.  Howell

carefully holds the phone to Talley's ear --

Howell backs away with the phone --

Talley takes out a single disk.  It's the one labeled

'Marlon.'  He tosses it onto the bed --

Howell considers the disk.  If Talley has the second disk in

his pocket, Howell could just shoot him.  But Howell can't be

sure --

Howell brings the disk to a lap top computer set up in the

corner.  He inserts the disk, and waits for it to read.  He's

satisfied with what he sees --

Howell stares at Talley again, then picks up his phone --

The car pulls up directly outside the door.  It was only

seconds away.  Marion Clewes is driving; Jane and Amanda are

wedged into the front seat beside him, Jane next to Marion,

Amanda on the far side.  They are bound tight with their

mouths taped, immobile and helpless, their eyes wide with

fear --

Marion presses a gun to Jane's temple --

Talley jerks his gun toward Howell --

Talley aims at the man in the car; he aims at Howell.  He

tried so hard to save his family, and now Howell has him

boxed --

Talley looks at Jane and Amanda, and his eyes fill.  He

mouths the words --

He's saying good-bye.

Talley drops his gun and releases the Fat Man, who stumbles

away.  Talley tosses a second disk onto the bed.  Manelli

scoops it up and tosses it to Howell as Mation appears in the

door --

Howell anxiously pushes the disk into his lap top --

Howell stares at the lap top with the withering face of a man

reading his own death sentence.  There is nothing on this

disk.

Howell stands like a mechanical man; incredulous --

Howell looks over as if seeing Marion for the first time, and

gives him the order --

Marion aims his gun directly between Talley's eyes, then

points it at Howell --

Marion shoots Howell in the head, then the Fat Man, then

Manelli--bambambam--one shot, one kill.

He lowers his gun, considers Talley.  Talley doesn't

move.

The question being:  Why aren't I dead?  Why aren't you

killing me?

Marion considers Talley another moment --

Marion goes to his car.  He helps out Jane and Amanda, then

gets into his car and drives away.

EXT. THE PARKING LOT -- SUNRISE

Talley stumbles out of the room and runs to his family.  He

scoops up Jane and Amanda, hugging them tightly as the camera

pulls up and away, rising, leaving this reunited family as

Marion Clewes disappears like a passing thunderhead --

CLOSING CREDITS

The credits roll to black, then--

EXT. SONNY BENZA'S HOME -- DAWN

The garage door slides up.  Benza backs out in his Mercedes,

then roars to the front door.  He pops the trunk, then gets

out and hurries to the front door.  He sticks his head inside

and calls to his wife --

He picks up two bags from inside the door and brings them to

the car --

AT THE TRUNK

Benza steps behind the raised trunk to put away his bags.

When he steps back around again, a nondescript sedan is

waiting in the drive --

Gunfire erupts on the quiet ridge above Palm Springs.

FADE OUT

THE END

