The universe is deathless;

Is deathless because, having no finite self,

it stays infinite.

A sound man by not advancing himself stays the further ahead

of himself,

By not confining himself to himself,

sustains himself outside himself.

2.

INT. DARKENED BEDROOM - NIGHT

A spherical black monolith rises up from a white surface...

white like the moon.

In the darkness, the towers metal skin is barely visible.

We ROTATE AROUND, revealing the tower to actually be a LAMP --

not rising up from a surface, but hanging down from a white

ceiling. The bulb unlit.

Directly below the lamp is the very definition of innocence -

a sleeping child. Chest rising and falling with each breath.

We HOVER over the young boy...watching him. A blanket

emblazoned with dinosaurs is draped across his limbs. His

mouth is slack, eyelids twitching to dreams unseen.

The truly deep sleep that an adult can only wish for.

We move away from him, exploring the dark room. Strewn with

toys. The door is slightly ajar. We float through it into--

INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

--a long hallway. Even darker than the bedroom. And without

the boys rhythmic breathing, even quieter.

A window at the end of the hall enlarges as we approach.

Someone is standing in front of it.

The murky silhouette of the figure turns and walks away. We

follow it, tentative. Turning a corner, we see the figure.

Standing in a doorway.

Now we can make out the edges of the person. It is an old

woman. Hair in a Victorian bun. A corseted dress.

She stares at us.

OPENING TITLES play out to the shrill screams of George

Crumb's `Black Angels I: Night Of The Electric Insects'.

INT. BEDROOM - NIGHT

Eyes flick open.

A woman blinks awake, gazing around the room. Another

bedroom. Sparse. Just a bed and a cabinet. It is 5.43 AM.

Her eyes settle on the man lying next to her in the dark. His

heaving snores have woken her up.

She is RENAI (pronounced Renee) LAMBERT (36). With a quiet

determination she is holding on to her youthful good looks,

but the lines of age are creeping in.

She has settled into the `comfort' years of a marriage: hair

pinned up messily, wearing dowdy pajamas.

She beholds her husband, taking him in. Considering him. He

snorts and smacks his lips. Very unflattering.

She climbs out of bed.

INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

High ceilings. Exposed beams. Spanish style windows.

Renai treads across wooden floorboards into a sunken living

room. No matter careful she is, there is a loud creak with

each step. A GRANDFATHER CLOCK in the corner ticks steadily.

There is barely any furniture in here, only a BOOKCASE and a

PIANO. What there is a lot of...is boxes. Large moving boxes.

Renai plops cross-legged onto the floor and rips open one of

the boxes, marked BOOKS. She plucks out a handful of books

and lines them up on the bookshelf. Then another handful.

They are all self-help and self-improvement books. Titles

like `Be The Better You' and `Inch By Inch, It's A Cinch: A

Guide To Achieving Your Goals' pop out.

She spots a sealed box labelled PHOTO ALBUMS. She strips away

the tape and wrestles out a dusty album of wedding photos.

Smiling faces greet her as she thumbs through the pages. The

happy couple. Young. Glowing. Sadness washes over her.

She snaps out of it and turns to see DALTON LAMBERT (8). Her

son. He approaches her, rubbing his eyes. (It is not the boy

we saw in the opening scene.)

He climbs into her lap. She bites on his ear playfully.

She hefts another album from the box, prying it open. A photo

of a grinning young girl greets them, hair in pigtails.

Renai bursts out laughing. She is famous for her big laugh.

She sizes up her son. The living embodiment of the photo.

She points to the hands on the grandfather clock.

She turns the page in the photo album, seeing an old man.

She kisses him on the forehead and stares into his eyes.

We hear a baby crying off screen.

INT. KITCHEN, LAMBERT HOME - MORNING

Chaos.

Boxes of dinnerware have not been unpacked yet and it is

turning the usual morning routine into a nightmare.

Renai is on the phone as her kids buzz around a kitchen island

at top speed, creating a high-energy, manic pace in the room.

Her son FOSTER (6), tugs on her leg, holding a box of cereal.

Renai rips open a box, rifling through newspaper, phone

wedged against her shoulder. She holds out a cup, flustered.

Foster slumps on the floor, pouring cereal and overflowing milk

into the cup. A baby girl in a high chair, CALI (2), squeals.

INT. BATHROOM, LAMBERT HOME - MORNING

JOSH LAMBERT (37) gapes into the mirror, face covered in

soap.

He washes it off. Now he's awake we see that he is a handsome,

clean-cut guy - a former high school nerd who got revenge by

growing into his body.

He sorts through a box labelled JOSH'S BATHROOM STUFF.

He takes out two bottles - TONER and MOISTURIZER. He dabs the

toner on, then smooths the moisturizer into his forehead and

around his eyes.

He suddenly notices a grey hair. Looks mortified.

He plucks it out, wincing melodramatically.

INT. KITCHEN, LAMBERT HOME - MORNING

Josh strides in, tie hanging open around his neck. Renai is

still on the phone. Josh points to his tie.

She threads the tie into a knot for him.

Foster stays where he is, slurping cereal from the cup.

Dalton is playing a handheld videogame. Intensely focused.

She hangs up, pissed.

Foster frowns and obeys.

Renai marches out of the room. Dalton's game unit beeps

loudly and he pumps his fist.

Ever amiable, Josh high five's his son.

INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - CONTINUOUS

Renai sees that all the books she unpacked earlier are now

scattered across the floor of the living room.

INT. KITCHEN, LAMBERT HOME - CONTINUOUS

Renai charges in. Josh snatches an apple out of a fruit bowl,

biting into it. He quickly gags and spits it out into the sink.

She finds them on the counter, snatching them up.

She opens the fridge. It is bare except for a box of sushi.

Josh streaks past, kissing Renai on the cheek.

She trails off. He's gone. Foster BURPS. Loudly.

INT. CLASSROOM, FORRESTER HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Noisy students settle into their desks. Inner city kids,

mostly Hispanic.

Josh is their teacher, scribbling on the blackboard. One

student, a lanky boy, ALANSO (16), hovers near the door.

Alanso takes a seat. Josh is having trouble getting control.

A pretty girl in the front, TERI, is annoyed at the class.

She commands respect. They do. Except for one kid.

Everyone laughs.

He takes a gold cross hanging on a necklace out of his shirt,

kissing it and holding it up. That gets another laugh.

He gets up and leaves as the class JEERS and BOOS.

INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - DAY

Peace and quiet at last.

Renai gropes in behind the bookcase, plucking a hidden jewelry

box free. She pinches a cigarette out of it and lights it.

She sits down at her piano, feeling the keys, warming her

fingers up. Sunlight streams in through the windows.

She takes out a notebook, filled with scribbled handwriting.

She places the notebook on the sheetstand, then sets a small,

mechanical METRONOME in motion and begins tapping out a sombre

melody in time with it.

She stops and makes a note in her book. She starts over,

rising to the emotion of the song. She's got a good voice.

She is interrupted by the tinny sound of a baby crying.

She stops playing and looks over at a baby monitor, the

source of the noise.

Renai deflates, her shoulders sagging in defeat. She closes

her notebook and leaves the room.

INT. CALI'S NURSERY - DAY

Renai scoops up Cali, rocking her gently.

A scratching sound interrupts. Rough. Frantic. Like a dog

pawing at something.

INT. HALLWAY - CONTINUOUS

Renai steps into the hall, curious. She can still hear it.

She follows the sound to a door. Grabs the door handle.

The sound abruptly ceases.

INT. BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

The door whines open and stabs a blade of light onto a set of

stairs that descend into a gloomy basement.

Renai stands at the top of the stairs, squinting into the

inky blackness, straining to see.

She reaches up and yanks a light chain, illuminating a bare

bulb and throwing light across the tenebrous space.

The basement is large and completely bare. Cleaned out.

Renai takes a step down. She is still carrying Cali.

FURTHER DOWN below her, we see that there is one step that is

cracked and broken.

She takes another step. The broken step is right below her now.

One more step and she will fall.

Cali squeals happily. Renai pauses...then turns around,

heading back up the stairs. Stops when she sees something.

DEEP, VIOLENT SCRATCH MARKS...running downwards on the inside

of the door...as if someone were trying to claw their way out.

EXT. LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

A Spanish-style home. Very pretty. This is not the suburbs.

More of an inner city neighborhood. There's history here.

Josh pulls into the driveway of his new house in his Subaru.

INT. LIVING ROOM, LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

The house almost looks liveable.

Foster is watching loud, zany cartoons on TV. Cali is in a

high chair. Renai is folding boxes. She has unpacked most of

the living room and is very tired.

Josh ambles in, sees the work Renai has done.

Foster bolts over and crashes into his dads legs, hugging him.

INT. CORRIDOR, LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

Dalton wanders the hall, sporting a red superhero CAPE and

carrying a plastic, glowing light-sabre toy.

He reaches a door. The basement door. He pulls it open.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Dalton holds up his light-sabre, the glow allowing him to

make out the murky corners of the basement below.

He takes a step down the stairs. Then another step.

The broken step is right below him.

He steps again --

-- and falls. Flails forward, tumbling down the steps, all

the way to the bottom. His light sabre SHATTERS.

He hits the ground, his head smacking the floor.

All is dark.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Josh sits with Foster, zoned out in front of the droning TV.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Pitch black.

Dazed, Dalton sits up. His head is cut and bleeding. He is

alone in the dark. He stares into the corner of the

surrounding cell.

His eyes adjust, making out a shape.

A shadow.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME

Josh and Renai look up as the quiet is shattered by a SCREAM.

They spring into action, scrambling to their feet.

He doesn't answer. Just keeps screaming.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Renai and Josh whip the door open, glaring into the basement

from the top of the stairs.

Dalton is crumpled at the bottom of the steps, sobbing, his

red cape gathered around him.

Renai flicks the light on. Her and Josh scamper down the

steps, propping Dalton up.

Josh lifts him to his feet. A severely grazed knee is dotted

with blood. He's okay.

Josh carries him up the stairs as he sucks in sobs.

Renai glances around the basement, her eyes landing on the

lone object that resides in it.

She frowns. It wasn't there when she saw the basement last.

It is a box. One of her large, cardboard moving boxes.

It is marked LAMPS.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dalton is lying in bed, a band-aid slapped across his

forehead. Renai tucks him in, Josh standing over him.

There are dozens of pictures tacked to the wall, all drawn by

Dalton. Josh taps one; a drawing of Dalton flying through the

night sky, wearing his cape.

Renai kisses him and gets up.

They wave goodbye and turn out the light.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Renai flops into bed beside Josh, exhausted.

She laughs and cuddles up to him, resting her head on his chest.

Josh laughs. A lull settles over them.

She doesn't answer. They sit in silence for a long beat.

They kiss.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

It is 3AM. All the remoteness of that hour is present

here...we can feel it.

As still and quiet as deep space.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

The formerly bustling kitchen is now a museum at midnight.

INT. HALLWAY - NIGHT

A long, dark thoroughfare. A ticking clock its only occupant.

INT. BASEMENT - NIGHT

Stairs swallowed up by darkness. The groan of settling wood.

INT. FOSTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

The soft breathing of a sleeping child.

INT. CALI'S NURSERY - NIGHT

Hanging toy birds dangle over the baby, tinkling in a breeze.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dalton is sleeping too. Impossibly still. Lying on his back.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Renai and Josh are entwined together. Josh is snoring. They

are both blissfully asleep...

...for now.

INT. KITCHEN - MORNING

Another day, another chaotic breakfast.

Foster waves a stuffed toy around. Josh charges in, bits of

tissue on his face from shaving cuts. Cali flails her arms in

her high chair. Renai is at the sink, whisking eggs.

She whips a look around.

We FOLLOW Josh as he marches down the corridor to Dalton's

bedroom, poking his head inside.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Josh knocks on the wall.

Nothing from Dalton. He doesn't even stir. Josh rolls his

eyes and walks in. Nudges Dalton with his knee.

Nothing. He's really out.

Josh reaches down and shakes Dalton vigorously.

Josh waits for a response, but none comes. Dalton is as slack

as a puppet. Something resembling concern crosses Josh's face.

He kneels down, shaking Dalton hard. He listens for breathing.

His scream takes us into--

INT. HOSPITAL ROOM, ICU UNIT - DAY

--the stern sterility of a hospital.

Josh and Renai, eyes lined by dark circles, stand in front of

a dour neurologist, DR. JOEL SERCARZ (46).

Renai dabs her eyes with a tissue. They are red with tears.

Beyond a window in front of them, lying on a gurney in an ICU

chamber, is the unconscious body of Dalton.

Josh and Renai struggle to follow the cold, multi-syllable

medical terminology...like stranded tourists keeping up with

a foreign language.

Josh and Renai look in at their boy.

Renai sobs, tears streaming down her face. Josh looks like a

deer in the headlights. Stunned dumb.

Sercarz clears his throat. This part of the job isn't his

specialty.

His pager goes off. He checks it.

He leaves quickly. Josh and Renai press on the glass,

separated in body and spirit from their son.

SUPERIMPOSE TITLE: TWO MONTHS LATER

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, LAMBERT HOME - DAY

A ghastly meld of hospital room and young boys bedroom.

Dalton lies on his bed, a heart rate monitor hooked to his

chest. IV tubes run into his arms, a Nasogastric feeding tube

into his mouth.

A young nurse, ADELE CHALFIN (30), checks the various tubes

as Renai watches on.

Renai looks broken, the life drained from her. A wilted flower.

She shakes her head, her voice a low rasp.

Adele pauses.

Adele hugs her, then exits. Renai slumps down on a chair next

to her son.

The heart rate monitor pings. Dalton is as still as a statue.

INT. CORRIDOR - DAY

Renai shuffles down the corridor. She passes a bedroom door,

then stops and doubles back, pushing it open and going into--

INT. CALI'S NURSERY - CONTINUOUS

--the babies room.

She stares into the crib...at her other sleeping baby. She

sets the baby monitor and walks out softly.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Renai slumps in front of her piano. Taps one of the keys.

She plays a discordant melody of low notes with one hand, not

present enough to hear it.

She stops and buries her face in her hands.

Then she hears it. Whispering.

It's so low you would miss it if the house wasn't absolutely

silent. Renai looks up, scanning for the source of the murmur.

It is coming from the baby monitor.

Confused, Renai picks up the monitor, turning up the volume

all the way up. The hissssssss of static fills the room.

She presses her ear to the device, then hears it again - a

hushed WHISPER, almost indistinct from the static save for

the whistle of sibilants.

The whisper trails off....more static...

Renai drops the baby monitor, leaping out of her skin at the

sound of the scream. Nerves fried.

The monitor smashes on the floor. All is quiet.

Renai moves to the door, staring down the corridor at the

door to Cali's nursery.

It is open only a crack. She hears crying. Cali is crying.

We follow her as she bolts towards the nursery, smashing

through the door, eyes filled with terror, seeing--

--nothing.

INT. NURSERY - CONTINUOUS

Renai stalks into the room.

The room is empty, save for Cali, crying in her crib. Renai's

eyes land on the closet.

ANGLE FROM INSIDE THE CLOSET

Through a slight crack, we see Renai approach. Breath

quivering. Her hand reaches out. She FLINGS the door open.

It is empty.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

The family is eating. It's very quiet.

Foster keeps his eyes down as his parents eat in silence.

Suddenly Cali breaks the quiet, squealing happily.

Josh looks up, smiling. Amazed.

Neither Renai nor Foster even look up.

INT. FOSTER'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

A bedside lamp gives off a jaundice glow.

Renai gathers up scattered toys from the floor, relocating

them to a desktop covered in beakers and lab equipment.

Foster lies in bed beneath a large chart of the solar system.

Renai stops cleaning when she finds a certificate, crumpled

next to a school bag. It says IN RECOGNITION OF SCIENCE

SKILL, AWARDED TO FOSTER LAMBERT ON 3/14/10.

Foster nods meekly.

She sits on the edge of his bed. He stares at the wall. She

strokes his hair.

Foster nods.

She plants a kiss his forehead and stands up.

Renai sits back down.

Foster swallows.

Renai stares at her son. She kisses him again.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Josh lies in bed, reading Foster's award. Renai is beside him.

SUDDENLY - a noise interrupts. An arrhythmic KNOCKING sound,

like a drunk pounding on a tavern door after closing.

It is the front door.

Josh knows it's his job to check, but he doesn't want to.

He gets up.

INT. FRONT DOOR - NIGHT

Josh approaches the front door, flashlight in hand. He peers

through curtains at the front step.

It's too dark to see anything.

Only the wind replies.

He aims the flashlight at the glass, shining it into the

thick darkness. There is no one on the front step.

Josh presses the flashlight against the window, arcing the

beam across his front garden. Leans in close to the glass...

Nothing. There's no one there.

He makes sure the door is locked, then flips open a security

system panel on the wall, pecking at the buttons on it.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Renai sits up in bed, listening. Hears nothing...

...until the low moans of a baby crying float out of the baby

monitor. Renai hurls the sheet aside.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Renai pads down the hall, tentative.

She reaches the open door to Cali's room. Sees the silhouette

of Josh standing over Cali's crib. Exhales with relief.

Josh appears at the opposite end of the hallway.

Renai SCREAMS as the silhouette recedes into the shadows.

She RUNS towards Josh.

Josh BOLTS down the hall, flicking on the light, terrified.

The nursery is empty. Cali is sleeping. Terrified, Josh

enters the room. Scans around. Only toys and colorful

wallpaper.

He steps in further. He's not cut out for this.

SHRIEEEEEEEEEEEKKKK!!!!!! SHRIEEEEEEEEEEEEEEK!!!!!

The house alarm screams to deafening life, shaving a few

years off Josh's life in the process. He JOLTS, whipping

around.

Josh charges down the hall into the--

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

--snatching up a fire poker from the fireplace and continuing--

INT. FRONT DOOR - CONTINUOUS

-- to the front door, which is swinging open. Holding the

fire poker aloft, Josh scans the area.

Renai races past, carrying Cali and dragging Foster behind

her. They barrel toward Dalton's room.

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Josh scans the kitchen. It is empty.

The alarm wails in the background.

INT. CORRIDOR - CONTINUOUS

Josh inches his way up the hall, hand shaking.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Renai holds Foster and Cali close to her. Dalton is lying

behind them.

Directly across from Dalton's room is the laundry. The door

is ajar, offering a view into the darkened room beyond.

Renai sees something in the dark...a figure. A boy.

It looks like Dalton. He reaches out to Renai--

--until another HAND...a pale hand...reaches across and shuts

the laundry door, sealing the boy off from her view.

INT. LAUNDRY - SAME TIME

Josh bolts up the hall, panicked. He reaches the laundry

door, grabbing the handle. Hesitates.

He propels the door open with a shove, flicking on the light.

The room is empty. No windows, no doors for escape...just a

washing machine and a dryer.

EXT. LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

A home security officer trudges down the steps of the house.

Renai, Josh, Foster and Cali all stand outside in their

pajamas, shivering in the frigid night air.

Renai steps away from the children, out of their earshot.

Renai looks to the others. Sees only disbelieving faces.

INT. GYMNASIUM, FORRESTER HIGH SCHOOL - DAY

Josh's students scuffle about on stadium seating, arranging

themselves for a CLASS PHOTO. They're not doing a great job.

A male photographer does his best to compose them, not doing a

great job of hiding his bitterness about the fact that he's

shooting school photos instead of Vanity Fair spreads.

Josh stands off to the side, lost in his own thoughts. Tired.

Josh snaps out of his own head.

The class settles down, shocked by the outburst. Chastened,

the photographer turns to the class, gripping the camera

trigger.

INT. GYMNASIUM, FORRESTER HIGH SCHOOL - LATER

The students file out of the gym. Josh sits in the bleachers,

head buried in his hands.

Josh looks up, seeing Alanso.

He places his gold cross necklace in Josh's hand, then leaves.

Josh watches him go, then takes out his cell phone.

EXT. PARK - NIGHT

Josh sits on a park bench, staring into the distance. He

takes out a flask of whisky, swigging from it.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Renai lies in bed, staring at the ceiling. Alone.

INT. KITCHEN - NIGHT

Renai shuffles in, pouring herself a glass of water. Then she

hears it. A low muttering. It is coming from Dalton's room.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

Unnerved, Renai peers through the open door. Josh is sitting

beside Dalton's bed, reading to him.

EXT. LAMBERT HOME

In the sunlight, the house looks like a happy place.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Dalton's face is a picture of serenity.

A new day-shift nurse, KELLY (29), checks on his feeding

tube. Renai watches from the doorway.

Renai nods. Her eyes brim with tears. The cracks are showing.

She throws a scarf over her shoulder and stands.

INT. LIVING ROOM - DAY

Renai surveys the living room. It is a total mess.

INT. BATHROOM - DAY

Water cascades out of a faucet. Steam rises from the water.

Renai lets bath salts fall into the tub. She almost looks

relaxed just smelling them.

She starts to undress, then turns --

-- and YELPS in fright.

A person is standing behind the distorted glass window,

staring in at her.

The shape of the person's head and shoulders can clearly be

seen, but the glass is too opaque to make out any features.

Renai slips, grabbing the sink. When she glances up, the

figure is gone.

Trembling, Renai opens the window. Very, very slowly.

It is fifteen feet off the ground, with a sheer drop below it.

EXT. LAMBERT HOME - NIGHT

Renai sits on the front steps, alone. It is late. She looks

somehow tired and wired at the same time. Smoking a cigarette.

Josh pulls in. Fumbles out of his car, tipsy.

He paces, the anger sobering him.

Renai stands up and walks inside the house. The door closes.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Josh tosses a pillow onto the couch, setting himself up for

the night. He curls up on it, pulling a blanket over himself.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT

The witching hour. Still. Quiet...save for the omnipresent

clock.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Dalton is as still as we've seen him. And then...he twitches.

A slight facial twitch, but we see it.

INT. LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Josh snoozes, head arched at a bad angle. His back will

regret sleeping on this couch.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Renai tosses and turns, restless in sleep.

Her eyes open and she sucks in a breath. Bad dreams.

She blinks and looks around the room, surprised to be alone,

sitting up in fright. Until she remembers why. She eases back

onto the bed. Then she looks over at the window.

There is a man standing outside it.

He is not looking in at her...he is pacing back and forth,

furiously smoking a cigarette. Back and forth, back and

forth. Agitated. He has long, black, greasy hair and a grey

jacket.

Every muscle in Renai's body freezes. She becomes a glacier.

Her eyes are drilled to the man, unable to move. By sheer

will, she manages to direct them towards the bedroom door.

Opens her mouth but no words will come. Finally--

She glances back at the window.

THE MAN IS NOW IN THE ROOM.

He paces back and forth between the bed and the window, just

as he was outside, ignoring Renai. Smoking like a fiend.

And then, suddenly, he stops pacing. Looks up. Straight at

Renai - as if just realizing she was there.

For a moment their eyes are locked in silence...

...and then the man's face contorts in anger and he CHARGES

towards her, arms outstretched, GROWLING in fury.

Renai lets out a SHRIEK of terror that could strip paint. A

cry from the depths of her soul.

She propels herself backward, falling off the bed and

scrambling back into the corner.

Josh CHARGES into the room, flicking on the light--

--seeing only Renai, huddled in the corner, screaming.

Renai is incoherent. She cannot stop screaming. Josh grabs

her by the shoulders.

Foster runs into the room, visibly terrified. He sees his

mother and instantly begins crying. He runs to his dad,

holding onto his leg.

In the background, Cali begins crying, her screams

contributing to an overwhelming din.

The realization that her child is terrified quiets Renai.

All is suddenly silent, save for the cries of Cali in the

background. Josh holds his son tight.

He and Renai exchange a look.

An agreement passes between them.

EXT. SUBURBAN HOUSE - DAY

A moving truck is parked outside an average suburban home.

Movers mill about, hauling boxes and couches.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Renai unpacks boxes. An elderly woman, LORRAINE (65), helps to

unpack. This is Josh's mother. She has a curt, disapproving

manner about her that doesn't always make her easy to love.

She is actually moving more quickly than Renai, who groans as

if her back were aching as she stoops down to pick up books.

She boosts a photo frame from one of the boxes. It is a

portrait of Renai, Dalton, Foster and Josh. In happier times.

Lorraine seems taken aback by it.

Renai reclines against the wall, surveying her new living

room. Her new new house.

Lorraine stops unpacking and fixes Renai with a stare. They've

never really gotten along before. Adversity has brought about

a truce.

Renai hugs her. It's a new thing for them and a bit awkward.

INT. DOCTOR'S OFFICE - DAY

DR. BRYCE TRIMBLE (52) sits opposite Renai and Josh. Spread

out in front of him are a series of X-Rays, labelled DALTON

LAMBERT. His office is big and expensive.

Renai looks hopeful. Josh looks like a shell of a man.

Josh and Renai deflate.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Renai sits beside Dalton. Staring at him. She runs her

fingers through his hair, touching his skin.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

A needle touches an LP.

The pops and crackles of record hiss spit forth, followed by

the lilting guitar strums of `Tip Toe Through The Tulips'.

The quavering falsetto of Tiny Tim accompanies the guitar.

Renai walks away and we follow her down the hall into --

INT. FOSTER'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

-- a mess as only a child can make.

Renai picks up a plate and a fork and knife from the floor.

She walks out and we DON'T CUT, tracking with her --

INT. HALLWAY, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

-- back down the hall, towards the kitchen. The records

continues warbling in the background.

Renai passes the living room.

What she doesn't see is the child standing in the middle of

the room, facing the record player.

The boy is dressed in clothes from another time, but

children's clothes just the same.

He is dancing awkwardly, shifting his weight from one foot to

foot the other sheepishly, as if trying it for the first

time.

Renai keeps walking and we stay with her as she moves past

the child, following her into the --

INT. KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

-- mess of the kitchen.

She sets the plate down in the sink, on top of a stack of

other dirty dishes.

With a sigh she runs the hot water over the dishes.

With a sudden POP, the record starts skipping.

Bump...bump...bump...

Renai shuts off the water, heading back to the living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

She marches in, annoyed.

Then freezes.

Her bookshelf is empty. The books that once sat on it are now

scattered across the floor.

Bump...bump...bump...

Renai scans the books.

it...

Giggling.

She pivots her head towards the darkened hallway. There, she

sees a child, hidden in shadow, standing in the hall. Staring

at her.

Bump...bump...bump...

Renai doesn't move. Doesn't breathe.

And then suddenly, the child turns and runs down the hall,

disappearing into Dalton's bedroom.

Summoning every ounce of strength, Renai troops down the hall

towards Dalton's room.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - DAY

Renai pushes the door open.

Dalton lies in the center of the room on his gurney. The only

sound is his breathing.

Renai surveys the room. It is empty.

Bump...bump...bump...

She steps inside, glancing over at a cabinet. In the foot-

high space beneath it, a small white shoe protrudes slightly.

A child's shoe.

Heart pounding, Renai bends down, peering into the darkness

under the cabinet.

Bump...bump...bump...

The shoe does not have a foot in it. It is simply a discarded

shoe. There is no one under the cabinet.

BANG!!!

The cabinet doors EXPLODE open as the child bursts out,

giggling. Only we see that it is not a child.

It is a DWARF. A man in child's clothing. The dwarf runs past

Renai as she LEAPS back. He runs out of the room, giggling.

All is quiet again.

Bump...bump...bump...

Renai gets up, unsure of what to do. Numb with terror.

SUDDENLY-- the record pitches back to life, the volume

startling. Renai JOLTS, falling backwards.

INT. CLASSROOM, FORRESTER HIGH SCHOOL - NIGHT

A darkened class room.

An older janitor, NED (68), shoulders the door open, carrying a

mop. He STARTS when he sees Josh, sitting at his desk in the

pale light of a desk lamp. Alone.

Josh holds up his flask of whisky. He's a bit soused.

Ned nods sagely. He sets down his mop and grabs a chair,

sitting in front of Josh with a sigh. He takes the flask.

He downs a hit from the flask, then hands it back.

Josh laughs despite himself.

He takes the flask and has another swig.

EXT. NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Josh pulls up to the house. Turns off the car.

An old Cadillac is sitting in the driveway. Josh clambers out

of his car and peers in through the window of the Cadillac,

quizzical.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Renai is huddled on the couch in the living room, gripping her

knees to her chest. A man is sitting next to her; a handsome,

soft-spoken Anglican priest, FATHER NATHANSON (40).

Josh enters. There are subtle changes in his coordination and

speech from the booze.

Father Nathanson stands, as does Renai.

Josh turns to see his mother, holding a tray of tea. He frowns.

He clears his throat and exits, quickly and quietly.

Please sit down, Joshua.

"Joshua?" Oh Jesus...

Sit down.

The melodramatic way in which you

two are conducting yourselves right

now is scaring the shit out of me,

so just tell me what's wrong.

Nothing is wrong. We want to talk.

Nobody asks you to sit down unless

something is wrong. If a doctor

calls you into his office and asks

you to sit down, you're fucked.

There's no use, Lorraine. He's been

drinking.

I have not been drinking. Not

enough that we can't talk to each

other, Renai. And don't judge me in

that bitchy tone, okay?

He would never speak to me like

that before.

Christ. You're acting like I'm some

lush who comes home and beats you

with a belt. At least I'm speaking

to you. You suddenly have to speak

to a priest. Or my mother who, up

until a couple of weeks ago, you

couldn't stand.

You're an asshole.

Your wife needs you. Now sit down and

listen to her. I won't ask you again.

Josh obeys. His mothers tone can still shut him up.

Josh shifts in his seat. Agitated.

INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

We are FLOATING through the corridor, looking through

Lorraine's POV.

We are inside her dream.

The POV keeps moving, out of the kitchen and into the hall.

The POV floats down the hall, reaching a door. The door

opens, revealing Josh and Renai, sleeping.

The POV keeps moving down the hall.

We keep pushing on, reaching the door to Dalton's room.

The door pushes open. In the dark, we can see Dalton, in bed.

The POV turns to see a DARK FIGURE, standing in the corner.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Lorraine is clearly unsettled by the dream.

She looks up at Josh - and SCREAMS!

Over Josh's shoulder, crouched down behind the couch and

peeking up over the armrest at Lorraine, is a DIABOLICAL

FIGURE. His face is PURE RED with smeared lipstick. His scalp

is completely bald, yet tufts of hair dangle above his ears.

Other than his face, his skin is charcoal black.

Lorraine recoils back, utterly petrified.

Lorraine stares eerily into his eyes. Frozen.

Renai looks to Josh, who is at a total loss. She is crying.

His anger fades and he steps over and takes her in his arms.

EXT. NEW HOUSE - DAY

A battered van is parked in the driveway of the house.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Renai and Josh stand in front of two men. They are silent.

The shorter one is a wiry young man who looks like he spends

most of his time in dark rooms. Not a member of the beach

volleyball team. This is SPECS (32).

The other is TUCKER (33), a larger man with scruffy facial

hair. He is eating a Hot Pocket.

He takes out a notepad and pen.

INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Specs leads Tucker into the kitchen.

INT. LIVING ROOM, SPECS' APARTMENT - DAY

Specs is halfway through interviewing Josh and Renai.

Renai is uncomfortable. Specs makes a note. The camera beeps.

A long beat. Tucker finally enters, adjusts the camera.

Specs clears his throat, peeved. Continues.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Specs and Tucker mill around the room. Tucker is carrying a

small electronic device. He holds it against the wall.

INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - LATER

Tucker edges into the corridor. He switches out the light,

then takes what looks like a modified VIEW-MASTER TOY out of

his shoulder bag, holding it up to his eyes.

He stalks down the corridor with it. All is quiet.

TUCKER'S POV THROUGH VIEWMASTER - different filters highlight

different degrees of UV light. Each slide changes the

readings.

He approaches the grandfather clock. Another slide clicks

into place - showing us TWO FIGURES. Standing beside the

clock.

In the negative light, they look like females.

Tucker lowers the device. There is no one there.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Specs packs up the video equipment, babbling to Josh and

Renai.

Tucker backs into the room. Very slowly. He is afraid.

INT. FRONT DOOR, NEW HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

Josh opens the door to see an elderly woman, ELISE RAINIER

(73), who despite her years maintains a sprightly energy.

There is absolutely nothing morbid or dour about her.

Elise steps inside. Renai, Tucker and Specs gather around her.

Everyone becomes very subservient, like the Queen just arrived.

Elise takes her hat off and scans the room, taking a deep

breath. Tucker jabbers, eager to please.

Tucker and Specs look at each other. Oh shit.

She stares up at the ceiling, as if seeing something they can't.

She drifts over to the bookshelf, her hand landing on the stack

of photo albums Renai looked through in the opening scene.

Renai and Josh exchange a look.

Specs hurriedly fishes a sketchbook and pencil out of his bag.

Elise begins walking through the house. Tucker and Specs

trail her and we FOLLOW THEM into the--

INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

--hallway.

Renai and Josh stay back, sheepish. Elise stalks forward at

the front, surveying every nook and cranny of the house.

Elise stops suddenly. She is staring straight at a corner of

the hallway, next to the grandfather clock.

Elise calmly mutters something to Specs in a low voice, but

we have trouble hearing it - only snatches of key words.

He immediately starts sketching. His line drawings are fast

but detailed. Impressive.

He outlines the wall, the ceiling lamp, the grandfather

clock.

And then something else...

Two young women. Standing next to the grandfather clock,

dressed in Amish garb. Even in the roughness of the drawing,

we can make out their pleading eyes and pale skin.

Tucker takes out a camera, snaps some shots. Josh and Renai

step forward, seeing the sketch.

Elise keeps moving, heading straight for one door in

particular. She stops, running her hand over the wood.

Josh and Renai hug each other. Tucker lowers the camera.

Elise grips the door handle and turns it.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM - DAY

The door groans open.

Dalton is lying on his gurney, surrounded by the sluggish

drone of hospital equipment. The curtains are drawn and the

room is dark.

Elise hesitates...then steps inside.

Elise steps closer to Dalton. She runs her hands over his

prone body. She shivers as she does.

A ripple of fear passes through her. Her breath quickens.

Slowly...very very slowly ...she gazes up at a corner of

the ceiling. Her eyes WIDEN and the look on her face

T E R R O R.

Her arm raises up, her finger extending and pointing at the

corner she is glaring at.

Elise cups her hand over her mouth and whispers to Specs,

keeping her eyes GLUED to the far corner of the ceiling. We

cannot hear what she is whispering.

Hand shaking, Specs feverishly starts to sketch. We cannot

see what he is drawing.

The strokes of Specs' pencil become faster and rougher,

keeping up with Elise's whispers. Sweat dots his forehead.

Tucker glances at the drawing and steps back instinctively.

He holds up his Viewmaster.

POV THROUGH VIEWMASTER - we see the far corner of the ceiling

change color as Tucker rotates the lenses inside...but

nothing out of the ordinary appears. Just a ceiling.

Suddenly, Renai charges forward, snatching the sketch book.

The drawing is of a hideous form - crouched in the corner of

the ceiling, staring down at Dalton below. It is the RED-

FACED DEMON Lorraine saw earlier.

His naked body is charcoal black...whilst also strangely

translucent, the veins visible underneath the flesh. A

corpulent stomach juts out, as if he were pregnant.

Terrified, Renai flicks on the light --

-- revealing nothing but an ordinary ceiling.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - DAY

Elise holds court in the living room.

Renai and Josh hold each other, struggling to comprehend it all.

She takes a deep breath, preparing herself.

This is too much for Josh. Renai, however, wants to listen.

Elise considers what she is about to say carefully.

Elise nods.

Josh shakes his head, agitated. Renai leans forward,

desperate for an answer to her terror.

Elise gazes up at the ceiling, as if looking into another world.

She turns to look at them.

Renai cries, unprepared for what she is hearing.

Josh can't meet her gaze.

Her words hang in the air like gunsmoke. Pure fear courses

through Josh's eyes. He fidgets, agitated.

She holds up the drawing that Specs di.

Josh can't take it any more. He stands up.

The room goes quiet. Josh turns to Elise.

He turns to Elise, Specs and Tucker.

He goes to the front door, opening it.

She walks to the door, followed by Specs and Tucker, who

sling their bags over their shoulders sheepishly.

They exit. The door closes. They are gone.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Renai lies in bed, awake...a broken shell of her former self.

A bottle of anti-depressants sits on the bedside table.

Josh enters the bedroom. Sits down beside her.

She doesn't look up.

A long beat of silence passes.

She turns and looks at him.

Josh paces, at his wits end.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Josh lies beside Renai, who is sleeping. He is wide awake,

staring at the ceiling.

He gets out of bed.

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

The door opens.

All is mute as Josh enters, skulking carefully through the

darkness.

The curtains lull in the slightest of breezes.

Josh stands over Dalton.

He stares down at his sons body, then lets his gaze drift

around the room...past the CLOSET, past the DRAWINGS pinned

to the wall and the TOYBOX...all the way to the CORNER of the

ceiling that Elise was so frightened of. Josh's eyes drill

into the shadows.

Is there something waiting there?

Finally, Josh sits down beside Dalton. He grips his sons hand.

Josh's torment fills the air...but Dalton doesn't move.

Josh studies Dalton's face for a response. Nothing. Not a

twitch. He collapses forward onto Dalton. Holding him tight.

For a moment, all we can hear is Josh's breathing.

Then...something happens. Something Josh doesn't see.

Dalton's face twitches. It is a very slight movement. This

movement is followed by something that is hard to miss--

One of the tacks pinning one of Dalton's drawings to the wall

begins to wind loose.

It pops free, shooting across the room like a kernel of

popcorn...followed by another tack.

The second tack lands in Josh's lap. Puzzled, he picks it up,

examining it. He looks up, his eye drawn to the picture on

the wall.

With total astonishment, he sees the two remaining tacks

works themselves free, popping out of the wall.

The drawing floats down to the ground.

Josh stoops down, picking it up.

It is a drawing split into two halves. The left half is a

self portrait of Dalton, lying in bed, looking down from

above.

The right half is a depiction of outer space - squiggly stars

and bloated planets.

Dalton has drawn another version of himself on this side,

flying above the house with another man.

At the bottom of the first drawing, Dalton has written `Last

night I watched myself sleep'.

A tear falls down Josh's face. He begins to cry. Deep and

painful tears he has long pent up.

Beneath the second drawing, Dalton has written `Then I flew away.'

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Renai's eyes flutter open. She glances over. No one is there.

INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

Renai shuffles into the kitchen.

Josh is sitting at the kitchen table, staring at Dalton's

drawing. He hasn't slept and looks it. He looks up at her.

Renai approaches Josh and they hug...holding on for dear life.

EXT. NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

The Lambert house is lit from within. Like a Jack-O-Lantern.

INT. DALTON'S ROOM - NIGHT

Action stations.

Tucker sets up two stills camera's around Dalton's room,

zipping back and forth between the two tripods. Specs opens

up a kit, taking out his notepad and a pencil.

A small, circular table has been set up, adjacent to Dalton's

bed. Elise sits at the table, flanked on either side by Josh

and Renai.

Josh and Renai nod grimly, truly out of their depth.

Tucker finally sets his cameras and takes a seat in the corner,

holding up a HAND-HELD VIDEO CAMERA.

Specs waits obediently at her side.

She turns to Specs.

Tucker reaches up and dims the lights to a very low level.

Elise closes her eyes, concentrating. She relaxes her head,

as if meditating, letting it loll on her shoulders.

One of the cameras on the tripod goes off, bathing the room

in white light for a split second.

Elise inhales and exhales deeply, slipping away. Soon, she is

very still.

Specs nods to Tucker silently, then produces an odd looking

device made from GREY CLOTH.

It almost resembles a gas mask from World War 1, with a cone

shaped muzzle that fits over the mouth and nose. The snout of

the facemask is like an elongated elephant trunk, coiling

outwards and ending in an old listening device, like an early

version of a microphone.

Specs slips two hooks over Elise's ears and gently places the

device over her nose and mouth. He then takes a seat next to

her, behind Renai, who holds Elise's hand.

Specs takes out his notepad and fixes a small apparatus

around his neck that holds a flashlight in place.

He flicks it on, then holds the microphone end of Elise's

facemask up to his ear, a pencil gripped in the other hand.

Dead silence descends over the group like a blanket.

Then, we hear something lilt through the old microphone. It

is Elise's muttered whispers. Specs begins writing.

Renai opens her eyes to peek at what he is scribbling in

cursive.

we are calling out to you dalton

Renai grips Josh's hand tightly.

For what seems like an eternity, all is quiet and still...

...until Elise's eyelids flutter.

Another unintelligible whisper drifts out of the microphone

at Specs' ear. He writes.

looking for you

Long pause. Specs writes again, more intense this time.

i need help i can't see in here

Another long pause. A little too long.

Why aren't you talking anymore dalton?

A long beat. Tucker's camera flash goes off again.

if they hear me they'll hurt me

the man with fire on his face

there is no way out

they won't hear you just follow my voice

helpme mom and dad please save me please

come and get mepleasecomeandgetmecome

Elise's head TWITCHES as Specs' writes furiously, trying to

keep up. His pencil finally SNAPS. He snatches up another.

An agonizing ocean of silence...then this furious scrawl:

listen to me you filthy whore he isnt here

you should not have come here you fucking

bitch i will rip your cunt apart and eat the

fucking innards that spill forth from it i

Specs writing begins to SHRED the paper as he writes

furiously, the scrawl getting out of control. Sweat flies

from his forehead as he struggles to get it all down.

Suddenly a PIERCING SCREAM blasts through the microphone and

he jerks it away from his ear - then looks over at Elise.

With UTTER DREAD, he sees that she is NO LONGER WEARING THE

MASK. She has taken it off and is panting heavily.

The scream continues through the mic, audible to

everyone...then peters out.

Shocked silence follows.

Josh glances over at Dalton's bed.

He is not in it.

Stunned, Josh turns back to the table--

--TO SEE DALTON SITTING NEXT TO HIM. STARING AT HIM.

His heart leaps out of his skin and so does Renai's as they

both turn towards Dalton. Their son.

Dalton stares at them...not a trace of emotion on his face.

Then he reaches up and grips his bottom jaw with both hands,

wrenching it downwards with almighty force and BREAKING HIS

OWN JAW.

Renai SCREAMS into the abyss as Dalton BELLOWS at them, spit

flying from his throat, his tongue hanging down over his

dislocated jaw.

He stamps his foot and the table - and everyone sitting at

it, Renai, Josh and Elise - go flying backwards as if pushed

by a hurricane, smashing into the wall with crushing power.

We realize that Dalton was not sitting at the table, but

squatting down awkwardly. Painfully.

He stands up, then steps forward. As Josh and Renai watch,

his KNEE begins to BEND BACKWARDS, the tendons stretching and

snapping, the knee bending in the opposite direction.

His other knee follows and he steps forward - both knees

bending back.

Specs is rigid in his chair, rooted to the spot, notepad

still in hand. When he looks up at Dalton, the flashlight

under his chin shines in Dalton's eyes.

Dalton ROARS and advances forward - SLAPPING Specs with the

force of ten men. Specs reels backwards, hitting the wall,

smashing his head and crumpling like paper.

Elise stands to face Dalton. The CAMERA FLASH goes off again,

lighting the darkened room for a split second and showing

Elise the lipstick-smeared face of a demon instead of

Dalton's face.

Tucker SHRINKS BACK as he captures all this with the video camera.

Dalton steps forward again and Elise CHARGES at him, grabbing

Dalton by the hair.

Dalton BELLOWS again - a howl so course and ungodly that it

seems ripped straight from the bowels of Lucifer himself.

Dalton FLIES backwards, hitting the corner of the wall and

then CLIMBING IT, arcing his body into the far corner of the

ceiling like an expert contortionist.

He hisses at them as the CAMERA FLASH fires AGAIN AND AGAIN,

showing them split second frames of the red faced CREATURE.

Dalton shrieks again and somehow the force of the cry knocks

Elise down.

The room begins to shake.

Books fly.

The closet doors burst open.

With terror, Elise looks over and sees several figures

peering out from within the closet.

Two are the women that Specs' drew. Another is a small man,

dressed like a child.

They stare out at Elise, their eyes glinting in the dark.

Elise turns to see Josh. The camera flash STROBES repeatedly

and gives us split-second glimpses of an OLD WOMAN, dressed

in Victorian era garb - standing directly behind Josh.

And then, with absolute fear, Renai sees the LONG HAIRED MAN

standing over her. He SCREAMS at her and pushes her against

the wall, licking her. She cries out, terrified.

With the spirit world, crashing in around her, Elise pulls

herself off the floor and yells again.

Dalton suddenly SPASMS, dropping out of the corner and

hitting the floor like a rag doll dropped off a bridge.

Terrified, Specs' scrambles over to the corner, flicking the

light switch. The room is instantly flooded with light.

The room has stopped shaking. The screaming has stopped.

Renai wrenches herself across the carpet and reaches Dalton's

limp body.

She listens for breathing. His chest moves. He is still

breathing. She holds him and cries. More desperate than ever.

INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Tucker, Specs and Elise convene in the kitchen, slumped

amongst the boxes for the tech gear. All are in shock.

He holds up his video camera.

He hits play on a monitor that his video camera is cabled to.

Chaotic images of Dalton from the previous scene SPIT to life.

BEHIND DALTON, we can just make out the blurry image of the

RED-FACED DEMON. Puppeteering Dalton from behind. Controlling

his limbs like a human marionette.

He hits pause on the video, freeze-framing the hellish image.

She snatches his camera away from him and stands up.

They manage a smile.

There is a knock at the front door.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Josh sits with Renai's head in his lap. She is too

traumatized to speak. Rain dribbles down the window pane.

Josh gets up when he hears the knock at the door. Elise

shuffles over to answer it.

She opens the door to reveal Lorraine, wet from the downpour.

Elise steps aside and Lorraine walks in, gravely sedate.

Lorraine's usual strong will has evaporated. She looks to Elise.

Lorraine follows orders, easing onto the sofa. Eyes down.

Thunder growls in the distance.

Lorraine swallows and starts talking.

She looks up at Josh.

Lorraine can't go on. Elise steps in.

INT. DARKENED BEDROOM - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

We have returned to the opening scene.

We are looking down on a sleeping child. Chest rising and

falling with each breath.

This is JOSH as a child.

We move away from him, exploring the dark room.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - PRESENT

Tucker and Specs enter the room, lingering at the back.

INT. CORRIDOR - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

Again we return to the opening scene...floating down a long

hallway.

A window at the end of the hall enlarges as we approach.

Someone is standing in front of it.

The murky silhouette of the figure turns and walks away. We

follow it, tentative. Turning a corner, we see the figure.

Standing in a doorway.

Now we can make out the edges of the figure. It is an old

woman. Hair in a Victorian bun. A corseted dress.

IT IS THE SAME OLD WOMAN THAT ELISE SAW.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Lorraine closes her eyes, struggling to go on.

She looks to Elise, who nods.

Hand trembling, Lorraine retrieves a packet from within her

coat. The paper is yellowing. Faded. Soaked from the rain.

Lorraine hands the packet to Josh, who is dumbfounded.

Renai peers over Josh's shoulder, at a Polaroid of a boy,

about nine years old, sitting on a couch. Early 70s period.

It is a Young Josh. Behind him is the BLURRED OUTLINE OF A

FIGURE.

Josh runs his finger over the shadow. His heart rate speeds

up. An old memory is coming back to him.

Josh flips to the next photo - it is another faded frame of

Josh as a youngster. This time he stands in an old kitchen.

Once again, there is a figure behind him - clearer this time,

but still hidden in silhouette. A step closer to Josh.

Josh flips to the next picture. A BLACK AND WHITE shot of

himself as a young boy, lying in bed.

With dread, Josh sees the unmistakable features of an OLD

WOMAN, crouching beside his bed. Staring at him.

Josh flips to the next picture - in this one, Young Josh is

standing by a car.

Behind him, the details of the Old Woman's dress are visible.

Her arm is extended...reaching out for Josh's neck.

Renai's hand flies to her mouth.

Sweat pours down Josh's brow.

He lets the photographs flutter from his fingers, backing

away. Fragments of memories rock his entire body.

Josh grabs the wall, weak at the knees.

A quiet descends over them.

Josh looks up at her.

All eyes are on Elise.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - LATER

The lights have been dimmed. Josh sits on a single person

lounge chair.

Elise sits opposite him.

Tucker and Specs set up around her, fixing their cameras in

place. Renai leans forward on the couch opposite, chewing her

nails to the quick. Lorraine is next to her.

Josh nods. Renai hugs him and they hold onto it. She whispers

to him, staring into his eyes.

Elise drifts over to the piano, lifting the METRONOME from it.

She sets it down in front of Josh, freeing the weighted swing-

arm so it moves back and forth.

TICK...TICK...TICK.

We PUSH IN on Josh, inhaling and exhaling. TICK...TICK...TICK.

We are now in an ECU of Josh. TICK...TICK...TICK.

Renai watches, literally and figuratively on the edge of her

seat. Tucker and Specs take notes from the corner.

Josh breathes deeply. Eyes shut tightly.

Josh's eyes open suddenly and he stands up, frustrated,

marching across the living room.

He turns around and stops dead. His words trail off.

HE IS LOOKING AT HIMSELF.

He sees his own body, sitting in the armchair, eyes closed.

Elise is sitting opposite, with her back to the Josh who is

now standing.

The living room is exactly as it was - only Renai, Lorraine,

Tucker and Specs have disappeared. They are nowhere to be

seen.

Stunned into mute shock, Josh stares at his own body in the

armchair.

Slowly, Elise turns her head away from the Josh in the chair,

staring eerily into the standing Josh's eyes.

She can see him.

She turns back to the Josh in the chair. The room seems to

have darkened even more somehow.

Josh turns and glares into the darkness of his hallway as it

yawns outwards, eventually swallowed by complete blackness.

He is not in another world. He is in his own house.

NOTE - The following scenes are not going to be "movie

quiet". They will be inhumanly quiet. There will no score.

Only sound scape. This is another world and should feel so.

Josh moves forward, gliding down the hall slowly. He looks

down and sees that his feet are slighty raised off the

ground.

He is floating.

He moves into the darkness of the hall...past the bedroom

doors and closet doors.

As he floats past, he scans every darkened corner for the

slightest trace of movement.

He reaches the front door. He moves towards it and as he does

it OPENS.

EXT. THE FURTHER - NOT NIGHT OR DAY, BUT DARK

His street beckons beyond the door.

Josh floats across his lawn.

There are no people or cars on the street...it is as desolate

as a post-apocalyptic wasteland.

LIFE.

Some lights flicker from within the houses, but no movement

or signs of human forms. Only mist.

Josh floats an inch above the road, moving down the street.

One thing to notice is that there is a total lack of horizon

or city scape here...Josh's immediate surroundings are

visible for about one hundred yards or so...anything beyond

that, in any direction, fades into blackness. As if someone

were shining a giant spotlight down on him.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Renai watches Josh. He is completely still...in a trance.

His eyelids flutter as his eyeballs probe in all directions

underneath.

EXT. THE FURTHER - NIGHT

Josh keeps moving, his fear registering, even in this world.

He looks down at his feet.

He is frustrated that he can't move any faster. He

concentrates with fierce intensity--

--and then watches as his feet touch the ground.

He is walking.

He starts to move faster, gaining control of his movement.

The sound of his voice is strangely dead - as if he were

inside a soundproof recording studio. There are no walls or

angles for it to bounce off.

For a long time, there is nothing...

...

...then he sees it.

A figure...shrouded in shadow. Standing on the street corner

with his back to Josh.

Josh moves towards the figure.

Closer. Closer.

The man abruptly turns the corner without looking back.

Josh glances around the corner. There is nobody there.

He continues down the street. He sees a little girl. Far in

the distance, but close enough to focus on. She stands and

stares...

...then turns and walks away. Gone...like an apparition.

He looks to his right and sees--

--A SHADOW.

Behind a curtain in one of the windows, back lit by candle

light. As with the others, the shadow turns away and

disappears.

Josh walks towards the front door of the house. He reaches it

and turns the handle.

INT. HOUSE - THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

A long corridor beckons. As with all of this world, it is

dark here.

Josh walks into the corridor, looking to his left and right

into empty rooms. Living rooms and bedrooms. Devoid of life.

The colors are muted...the palate drained. Only REDS and

BLACKS pop out. Blood and darkness.

Josh keeps moving down the corridor.

Up ahead, he sees a figure run past the top of the hall,

ignoring Josh.

He presses forward, following the figure.

He glances into an empty kitchen. Food rots on the table.

His footsteps have no sound as he continues on.

He passes a door that is partly open. He pushes it wide open.

INT. SMALL ROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

The room is small and empty. A strange room...like a stage.

A figure is sitting in the corner, facing the wall like a

child being punished at school.

Josh steps closer, cautious. Takes another step.

He steps closer yet again.

His hand reaches out to touch the figures back...

...his fingers are almost grazing the figures shoulder.

Soft laughter behind him. Josh glances back to look for the

source.

When he turns back, the FIGURE IS GONE.

He wheels around, seeing the small-statured figure of the

DWARF that Renai encountered, stepping through the door of

the room.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

Josh sidles back into the corridor. His pace is sluggish,

dream-like.

Frustrated, he stops. Then turns to his left.

SOMEONE IS RIGHT THERE IN HIS FACE. A MAN.

The man is not looking at him...only standing very close. His

neck lolls on his shoulders...around and around. He seems

stuck on a loop. He is dressed in a fifties era suit.

The man doesn't acknowledge him.

He marches away, leaving Josh standing alone.

Josh keeps going, whirling around. He reaches a set of stairs.

The stairs descend into darkness.

Josh squints into the dark, afraid.

The low rumble of this place is the only reply. Josh turns to

walk away. A distant voice stops him.

Josh SNAPS back.

The voice drifted from out of the darkness at the bottom of

the stairs.

Josh scurries down the creaky ramp towards it.

INT. HALLWAY, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

The core of a rotten apple. The bowels of hell.

Drenched in shadow, Josh fumbles forward into yet another

corridor of this labyrinth.

He realizes he knows where he is. He is in his OLD HOUSE. An

alternate world version of it.

The lighting is different - it's darker. There are no signs

of life. Water drips somewhere.

Josh stumbles forward, seeing an open door.

INT. LIVING ROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

Josh slinks into a darkened and dilapidated living room.

There are THREE PEOPLE in here - a middle aged woman, a middle

aged man and a young girl. They are all FROZEN, standing in

place as if someone had hit the pause button on their life.

The woman is in the middle of ironing. The man is sitting in an

arm chair reading a newspaper. The girl is lying on the floor.

The whole scene looks like a macabre `Leave It To Beaver'

tableau - a cheerful family frozen in time.

Josh steps closer to the mother...

...hairs prickling up on his neck when he sees her BLINK. Her

body moves slightly. She is not frozen - merely playing

statues. Like a street performer keeping as still as possible.

Josh turns to the father. He is the same. His hand shakes,

struggling to hold the newspaper in place.

He backs away from them, truly creeped out. His back hits a

window and he turns, peering through the glass down at the

street below.

A figure, hidden in silhouette, is gazing up at him.

INT. KITCHEN, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

Josh stalks into a kitchen off the living room. A weathered

door is adjacent to the kitchen.

The door is ajar.

Through it, Josh can see somebodies leg.

Josh approaches the door, prodding it open gently with his

finger.

It is a bedroom. A tattered cot sits against the wall. A

YOUNG MAN (17) sits on the cot, holding a rifle. Like the

others, he is trying to be completely still, as if on pause.

He is having more trouble than the family, trembling

slightly.

The boy does not look up. Does not move.

Josh retreats, scanning the kitchen. There are soiled pots in

the sink. Rotting food, but no bugs. Josh turns the faucet

but no water comes forth.

When he turns back, the YOUNG MAN is gone. No longer in his

bedroom.

Josh glances back at the living room.

The Young Man is now standing inside the living room.

Again, he is frozen. Holding his rifle. Looking down at his

family, who are now splayed out on the carpet, soaked in

BLOOD.

Each of them has a bullet hole in their head.

Repulsed, Josh tip-toes past them. He looks down at the

mother - a bullet wound in the center of her chest.

She blinks...still playing dead.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

More corridors disappearing into darkness.

Josh wrenches his hair in frustration. He boils over,

screaming at the top of his lungs.

His cry recedes into nothingness.

He heard that. Excited, he spins around, trying to determine

where it came from.

As he does, he sees that the entire dead family is now

gathered at the door to the living room. Watching him.

He summons all his strength and starts running, backing away

from them.

He drives himself to move faster and faster.

A figure suddenly appears at the end of the hallway.

It is the LONG HAIRED MAN IN THE GREY JACKET. The man who

terrorized Renai.

He approaches.

He licks his lips.

He is only a few yards from Josh now. He SCREAMS with awesome

power, his spit flying.

He CHARGES at Josh, screaming with hellfire fury.

Josh recoils, falling onto the floor, screaming.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Josh's body JOLTS in the chair and he makes a noise somewhere

between a scream and a moan.

Elise leans in, attempting to communicate with Josh.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER

Josh struggles. The Long Haired Man attacks him viciously.

Then something changes in Josh - he gets angry.

He shoves the Long Haired Man back, pounding into him with

the strength of TEN MEN.

Frightened, the Long Haired Man retreats, backing away until

he is swallowed up by the blackness.

Josh follows the voice to another stairwell in this Escher-

like maze of passageways.

INT. BALLROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

From darkness into baroque extravagance.

Josh finds himself in a gilded chamber of long neglected

opulence...as if a palace had been stormed, the occupants

murdered and the place left to rot.

Mold caked pillars support a ceiling of gold flakes, the rest

having rotted way.

Mirrors line the walls, their surface too clouded to see into.

He weaves between pillars, finally coming across a figure,

slumped on the floor in the corner like a dog.

It is Dalton.

Josh runs to him. His foot is chained to a PIPE behind him,

the clamp binding his right ankle. He looks pale and sick. He

looks like one of them.

He sees that Dalton is terrified. Looking over Josh's

shoulder.

He glances back, spotting an open door at the end of the

ballroom, light spilling from within it.

There is somebody inside.

INT. MAKE-UP ROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

A grotesque form sits in front of an immense gold-rimmed

mirror at a baroque powder table.

It is the RED-FACED creature seen by Elise.

The creature daubs RED LIPSTICK onto its face, arching

forward, glaring into the mirror, caking the make-up on.

The room is littered with hundreds of discarded CHILDREN'S

TOYS - teddy bears, stuffed animals, dolls (including one

white-faced, black-haired doll we recognize). They are

scattered about like bones, collecting dust in the shadows.

Suddenly the creature stops what it is doing. It sees

something in the mirror.

What it sees is Josh.

INT. BALLROOM, THE FURTHER - CONTINUOUS

With horror, Josh watches as the Red-Faced Man stands up and

staggers to the door, peering through the crack at him.

Josh wrestles to free Dalton's leg from the chain. No good.

Behind them the Red Faced Man opens the door. A rage unknown

to humans is building up inside the creature. He hisses.

The creature steps closer. Taking his time. Drool seeping

from his mouth with each drunken, wayward lope.

Dalton does - and suddenly finds that the chain is no longer

attached to his foot.

The Red Faced Man ROARS and the power of his breath sends

them FLYING BACK.

Josh smashes his head on a pillar, blood leaking from his

head. The power of this demon far outweighs the others.

Josh scrambles to his feet and snatches up Dalton, carrying

him to the door as the Red Faced Man pursues.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Josh convulses in the chair, choking.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER

Josh surges down a corridor, carrying Dalton.

The Red-Faced Man hobbles up behind them, his rasping wheeze

growing in volume.

Josh stampedes through the front door of the house - but

instead of the street, he is facing another corridor.

They spill into the second corridor, running again, racing

past rows and rows of doors.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Josh twitches in his chair, sweat beading on his forehead.

Elise paces in front of him.

Tucker's equipment begins to shake on the table. The hanging

light above them quivers as if an earthquake were rattling it.

A force is building in the room.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER

As Josh and Dalton streak down the corridor, each door opens

and a different figure staggers out.

Grotesque figures...the solemn dead. Pale skin, hollow eyes.

Their dead eyes drill into Josh's soul.

They want what he has - life.

They begin running - chasing Josh. Dozens of them.

Josh stops, seeing that the corridor seemingly has NO END. He

yells in frustration.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Josh's body SHUDDERS, the cry escaping his lips.

The room trembles again. Elise looks to Renai.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER

Josh whips around, desperate.

Josh follows the order - and hears it. A faint shout. A siren

call from another world.

The voice seems to come from behind the door in front of

Josh. He shoves it open--

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Renai glares at Josh's eyelids...as if he can see her through

them.

The room stops trembling. All is very still.

For a moment, it is as if time has stopped. Nuclear silence.

Then...a drawer slides open in the corner of the room.

Lorraine and Renai gasp at this supernatural interruption.

Specs clambers to his feet, approaching the drawer. It

contains a note pad and nothing else.

He reaches out to close it...and then JOLTS as a HAND reaches

out from within it!

He FLAILS backwards in fright, watching as the hand wrenches

a mop of hair into view.

A FULL GROWN BODY BEGINS TO CLAW its way out of the drawer!

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Drawers in Dalton's room slide open in unison. Then cabinets.

The closet BURSTS open.

Pale adult bodies begin to claw their way out of the

different doors, undulating out of impossibly small spaces

and falling onto the floor like limbless insects.

Cracks are opening in our world and the miserable dead are

slithering through the fissures.

INT. KITCHEN, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

More doors shoot open - cabinets, closets, the pantry. Forced

by unseen hands.

More hideous forms wrench themselves out into our world.

INT. CORRIDOR, THE FURTHER

Josh is exhausted, pushing himself to the limits.

He hears the voice again - distant and small. An echo.

Josh follows the voice to a door.

He staggers towards it, still supporting Dalton. He slams the

door open, falling through it into--

INT. BASEMENT, LAMBERT HOME, THE FURTHER

-- the empty basement.

He is in the basement of his old house. The wooden steps

beckon above him.

Renai's voice cries out from behind the door at the top of

the stairs.

Josh sets Dalton down, who scampers up the stairs. Josh is

about to follow when he turns and spies a familiar face.

THE OLD WOMAN.

She leers at Josh through the window of the basement, her

visage spookily flecked in candlelight.

Josh is transfixed.

Dalton charges ahead as Josh glares back at this face from

his past.

The old woman's eerily unblinking gaze cuts through Josh. A

long dormant rage BOILS OVER inside him. He approaches the

window, vomiting fury at her.

The old woman's lips protract to unveil a yellow graveyard of

molars. A smile to buckle the steeliest nerve.

She raises a lit candle to her lips.

She snuffs out the plume with a single puff...plunging the

basement into darkness.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Specs staggers back as the skeletal figures emerging from the

cabinets ambulate into the living room, surrounding Josh.

Specs sprints out of the room.

INT. CORRIDOR, LAMBERT HOME, THE FURTHER

We are now locked into a POV shot, pushing down the corridor

of the Lambert's NEW HOUSE. The scene of the trance.

Our POV is bee-lining for Dalton's bedroom.

INT. BASEMENT, LAMBERT HOME, THE FURTHER

In another POV shot, we SURGE up the basement stairs.

INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER

Our POV is only a few yards from Dalton's bedroom door.

The Red-Faced Man appears at the opposite end of the hall.

Malevolent. Cruel.

He SCREAMS and flits towards us.

The POV keeps going, hitting the bedroom door and FLINGING IT

OPEN - seeing DALTON'S BODY sleeping inside.

We SOAR towards it, getting closer--

INT. DALTON'S BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - OUR WORLD

Specs stands over Dalton's body.

SUDDENLY - Dalton shudders, his legs spasm. His eyes FLICK

open and he SUCKS IN A HUGE BREATH.

Dalton sits up, panting. Renai charges into the room. He

looks at her, registering her appearance.

Renai literally throws herself at him, wrapping her arms

around his body. No words can express.

Renai scoops him up, carrying him out of the bedroom.

INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER

The second POV whooshes down the corridor, zeroing in on the

living room.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - CONTINUOUS

A scene of desperation.

Elise leans into Josh's face.

The living room is now filled with the CREEPING FORMS of the

souls who crawled out from within the drawers. All of them

marching towards Josh.

The closest entity reaches out with gnarled fingers and is

almost touching Josh--

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE, THE FURTHER

The POV shoots towards Josh's body, seconds away--

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Josh's eyes BURST OPEN and he inhales a chest full of air, as

if emerging from deep water.

He falls forward, his strength gone.

He pants on the floor, barely able to speak.

Dalton and Renai pounce on him.

Josh holds onto Dalton like he's a life preserver, and in a

way, for Josh, he is. He laughs, inhaling deeply.

Specs, Elise and Tucker approach. Renai sees them and stands

up, tearful. She is lost for words.

She rushes forward and hugs all three of them.

Josh brings Lorraine in they all embrace in a circle. A group

hug for the ages.

EXT. NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

It's over.

Specs and Tucker haul a large tripod case to their van,

heaving it into the back.

They stand in awkward silence. It's been a long day.

Tucker can't hold his stoic pose any longer. He breaks out

laughing, followed quickly by Specs.

They shake hands.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Renai lie with Dalton on her bed.

She runs her fingers through his hair.

Dalton nods.

They hug.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Josh wanders out of the kitchen, examining the house as if

seeing it for the first time. He is smiling...happier than we

have ever seen him.

Elise sits on the couch amongst the remains of Tucker's

paraphernalia of the paranormal. Josh approaches her,

standing over her.

He reaches into his jacket, taking out the eerie photos

Lorraine gave him of himself as a child.

As he hands them to Elise, she sees with fear that his hand

is withered and wrinkled.

Like the hand of an eighty year old woman.

Shocked, she looks up at his face.

Elise stands. She looks haunted. Her eyes wide and unnerved.

She turns away, reaching for something.

She spins around and lifts Tucker's camera up to her face,

aiming it at him. She depresses the trigger and takes a photo

of him, bathing the whole corridor in white light.

Josh recoils back in shock. Elise lowers the camera. She is

terrified. Josh suddenly LUNGES at her, slapping the camera

out of her hands.

He SLAMS her against the wall, his hands around her throat.

Elise chokes in terror, terrified of him.

He abruptly stops attacking her, staggering backwards,

examining his hands as if he can't believe what he's done.

Seething with fury. Panting.

Elise collapses, catching her breath.

Josh swipes a framed photo off the wall and storms away,

heading down the corridor...

...swallowed up by the darkness.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Renai furrows her brow.

She gets up.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

Renai jogs into the living room. Sees Elise lying on the

floor.

Elise simply looks up at her. The utter terror on her face is

palpable. Her neck is bleeding from scratch marks.

Elise just stares, unable to speak. Her fear is contagious.

She turns and runs into the corridor, flicking on the lights.

There is nobody there.

INT. CORRIDOR, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Renai dashes from room to room in the hallway, pitching each

door open.

Each room is empty. Josh is nowhere to be found.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - SAME TIME

Elise stares at Tucker's camera in a state of catatonic dread.

Renai backs into the room, her own fear rising in her gut.

She leans down and grabs Elise by the shoulders.

Elise finally looks up at her. Seeing the "expert" so afraid

unnerves Renai. When the lion-tamer drops his whip and runs,

you know the lion is vicious.

Elise opens her mouth to speak...but nothing comes out.

Instead, she simply holds up the camera, showing Renai the

digital display of the photo she took.

We do not see it.

We simply see the look of horror on Renai's face.

INT. LIVING ROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT - FLASHBACK

We have returned to the previous scene - only now we are

seeing it through Elise's eyes.

Elise is sitting on the couch, alone. Trying to recover from

the nights events.

She glances up when Josh approaches her.

Once again, we see him reach into his jacket, taking out the

photos Lorraine gave him.

As he hands them to Elise, she sees with fear that his hand

is withered and wrinkled.

Shocked, she looks up at his face.

Elise stands up, not knowing how to react.

She turns away, reaching for something. We see her scoop up

Tucker's digital camera.

She spins around and lifts Tucker's camera up to her face,

aiming it at him. She depresses the trigger and takes a photo

of him, bathing the whole corridor in white light.

--and in that split second, Josh is replaced by the Old

Woman!

Elise lowers the camera, horrified. For a beat, the Old Woman

just glares at her...

...then she CHARGES at Elise, arms outstretched, wrapping her

white hands around the soft flesh of Elise's throat.

Elise CHOKES, eyes bulging, spittle flying from her mouth, as

the pale hands of the Old Woman dig into her thorax, droplets

of blood running down her chest where the yellowing finger-

nails have CUT IN to the flesh.

The Old Woman smiles - a merciless harlequin grin that mocks

Elise's pain.

She lets Elise go, letting her drop to the floor.

The Old Woman turns and glares down the corridor. Something

has caught her attention. A distant scream.

INT. BATHROOM, NEW HOUSE - NIGHT

The door groans open, a blade of light penetrating pitch

black darkness.

The silhouette of the Old Woman floats ethereally into the

bathroom. She steps up to the mirror, then reaches into her

tattered Victorian dress and produces a candle.

She lights the candle with a match, holding it beneath her

chin and glaring into the reflective surface of the mirror.

Instead of seeing her own reflection though, she sees THROUGH

the mirror as if it were a window.

In it, she can see the BASEMENT of the Lambert's previous

residence.

Josh bursts into the basement, carrying Dalton.

Josh sets Dalton down, who scampers up the stairs.

We are watching the same scene we saw earlier play out in the

mirror.

Josh is about to follow when he turns and spies a familiar

face. He looks at the Old Woman...seeing her through the

`window'.

Dalton disappears as Josh glares at the woman.

He approaches the mirror. WE CIRCLE AROUND the Old Woman,

past the mirror and THROUGH THE BATHROOM WALL, emerging on

the other side in--

INT. BASEMENT, LAMBERT HOME, INSIDE THE FURTHER

--the basement.

Josh screams at the Old Woman as she stares at him through

what he thinks is a window. THEY HAVE SWAPPED PLACES. He is

now in The Further, and she is in our world.

We KEEP CIRCLING, wiping past Josh's back and completing a

360 degree turn, THROUGH THE WALL and back into--

INT. BATHROOM, NEW HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

--our world.

The Old Woman smiles at Josh's rage. She finds it amusing.

With an eerily unblinking gaze, she snuffs out the plume of

flame with a single puff of breath...plunging the bathroom

into darkness...

...and snuffing out Josh forever...

...and ever.

