A speedboat cuts swiftly through the ocean swells beneath the

looming cliffs of ISLA SORNA.

Illegal Costa Rican parasail operator ENRIQUE CARDOSO helps

Americans BEN HILDEBRAND and twelve-year-old ERIC KIRVY --

already wearing life-vests -- strap themselves into a two-

person PARASAIL HARNESS.

Ben and Eric clamber onto a makeshift PLATFORM that hangs over

the back of the board. Dangling from Ben's neck is a CAMCORDER.

Enrique heads toward the driver's seat and a large SECOND-HAND

WINCH bolted to the deck.

Ben and Eric nod excitedly and give the thumbs up. Ben lifts the

camcorder to the record the action.

Enrique jams the down the throttle down, and with a loud RAOR, the

speedboat shoots forward. Soon the boat is whipping across the

rolling ocean.

Strapped together, Ben and Eric lean back over the passing

water, intently watching for Enrique's signal.

As the boat picks up speed, Enrique eyes the speedometer.

Ben grabs the end of the RIPCORD attached to the harness. He and

Eric braces themselves.

Enrique finally signals with a pulling motion. He pulls

the winch, Ben yanks the cord and -

WOOOSH! A brightly colored PARASAIL blossoms behind the boat,

hoisting Ben and Eric aloft. In a big BLOCK LETTERS on the

parasail is stitched "DINO-SOAR."

THE TOWNLINE unsold rapidly from its enormous reel.

BEN AND ERIC climb higher and higher.

ENRIQUE keeps an eye on the clients. When they reach a certain

height, he LOCKS OFF the reel.

High overhead, Ben and Eric are floating in wonderful, quiet

splendor. The motor of the boat now sounds strangely distant.

Down below, the boat enters a think blanket of FOG.

Eric points excitedly at the islands as Ben films him with the

camera.

Then, a sudden TUG on the thing line cause Ben to drop the camera,

which now dangles from his neck.

A second tug...and now the faintest of screams.

Ben and Eric look down to find that the boat has disappeared

into the low bank of FOG.

By the time the boat emerges on the far side of the mist...THEIR

IS NO SIGN OF ENRIQUE. The deck is splattered with blood.

As Ben considers the driverless boat...

Ben glances over at Eric, staring in horror at something

below. Following his gaze, Ben finds that their boat is only

moments away from crashing into A LARGE REEF.

Sticking out of the water, the imposing reef is being battered

by waves.

AS THE BOAT SMASHES INTO THE REEF, it splinters into a

number of pieces.

A panicked Ben turns to Eric.

Eric and Ben frantically unclip their lines. Catching an

updraft, the parasailers float upward.

A strong wind sends them wafting over the daunting cliffs

of ISLA SORNA...

TWO PLASTIC DINOSAURS enter the frame and do battle accompanied

by a child's ferocious sounds.

WINDER TO REVEAL -

CHARLIE, a three-year old boy, plays in a sandbox with his

favorite toy dinosaurs. ALAN GRANT squats next to him and

watches with great delight.

ELLIE SATLER stands over them, an INFANT in her arms -- a

picture of the perfect family.

As Grant demonstrates with some GRUNT and GROANS of his

own, he only succeeds in frightening the boy.

He bounces them along the sandbox edge.

Then, the sound of a CAR ENGINE turning off and a door

SLAMMING is heard.

Ellie and Grant turn to see --

balance demeanor.

He and Ellie kiss tenderly on the lips.

Ellie hands off the baby.

The two men shake hands, and we now realize it is Grant

who is the stranger in this household. Little Charlie runs to

his father, showing his dinosaur.

Grant smiles uncomfortably, a third wheel.

WINDEN to a PARROT in a large cage. Grant is teasing

Grant shrugs, gives Jack the cookie, and heads towards the table.

The three adults are finishing their dessert and coffee. The

The children have been out to bed.

An awkward moment of silence. Uncomfortable smiles. Then --

Mark stands and collects their cups.

Mark smiles, nodding. Then he goes into the kitchen. Another

uncomfortable silence.

So what are you working on now?

We have a new site in Montana. At least until

the money runs out.

Grant leans forward, realizing Ellie's one of the few people he

can talk to about this.

And from the cage in the corner of the room...

Both look back at the parrot. ELLIE smiles.

Ellie and Grant head toward the rental car parked in the

driveway.

A long moment passes between them as both consider where

they've ended up.

Not sure what the right thing to do is, they finally end up with

a friendly hug. They keep it short.

Grant gets in his car. Starts the ENGINE.

He's about to pull off when Ellie knocks on the window. He rolls

it down.

Grant hears her, but Ellie knows it didn't really get through.

A forced half-smile, than Grant waves goodbye.

Ellie watches as he drives off.

The last stop on Grant's fund-raising tour, it's a public

lecture hosted by some foundation. There are SCIENTISTS and

STUDENTS here, but also a lot of DINO-FANS, some even with

costumes.

Grant finishes his speech to what was a full house -- some

ATTENDEES are grabbing their coats and sneaking out. This

wasn't the exciting guest speaker they were all expecting.

A new slide comes up. Just black and white, and indecipherable.

He's finished, but no one seems to notice at first. Then the

SYMPOSTUM LEADER stands up, leading a smattering round of

APPLAUSE.

Nearly every hand goes up. Grant doesn't seem surprised.

Quite a few hands go down.

Now most of the hands are down. Picking one of the few

remaining...

The STUDENT'S BUDDY nods in agreement.

Recognizing those as fighting words, the symposium leader is

about to step in. But Grant will take this himself.

Looking through the cracked windshield of a junkyard plane, we

see someone spray painting red circles on the outside of the

glass.

NASH, a wry, intelligent mercenary pilot and soldier, is

painting huge eyes the windows of a wrecked plane. Finished, he

tosses the paint can through the open windows and walks quickly

away from the plane.

We now see that RED TEETH are painted on the craft's nose. It

looks absurdly like some angry beast.

We are one the edge of a dry lake bed, part of an aircraft

graveyard. Wrecked planes lie all around.

We hear a phone RINGING...

A RINGING satellite phone rests on a stack of gun cases.

UDESKY, the leader of this crew, answers it.

With the phone still to his ear, Udesky wanders out of the

craft...

Udesky looks over at Nash and COOPER, another mercenary.

Cooper's the quiet muscle of the bunch, a weapons specialist. He

finishes loading a massive gun, essentially a hand-cannon. It's

aimed at Nash's grimacing aircraft.

Then --

Cooper FIRES at the grimacing aircraft. A projectile rockets

into the plane and EXPLODES with a fireball.

Nash and Cooper exchange a satisfied smile.

Pieces of the demolished craft come raining down.

CLOSE ON a man's hand, carefully scraping the stone away from a

dinosaur fossil. We follow his hand back as he wipes off his

sweaty brow, revealing him to be BILLY BRENNAN, 25, an

associate professor and site manager. He's a charmer.

Looking past him, we see CHERYL, 21, a junior at junior of State. She's one

of a dozen COLLEGE STUDENTS working at the site, and the one

most smitten with her supervisor.

He scoots over, lying down beside her. Checks her work.

She's not listening, just watching his eyelashes.

He runs her bare fingers over the two different patches, showing

her. After a pause, she runs her finger along his

stubbly chin...

...and along his lips.

Billy may not have started this flirtation, but he's not ending

it either. It's then that a

SHADOW

falls across them. Billy looks up to see...

Grant has just returned, a bag over his shoulder.

Billy takes one of Grant's bags, talking as they go.

The cross into one of the tents, which only has two "walls". On

a dust-taped table, a dusty Macintosh is feeing data into a

strange machine the size of a dorm refrigerator. A mechanical arm sweeps

back and forth across a tray of fine sand.

The arm stops and suddenly the tray of sand shakes, dropping

through holes in the bottom to reveal an object the size of

a person's fist.

Grant hates technology, but he can't help but be amazed by the

result. He lifts the strange object up, shaking out the

remaining sand.

Billy puts it to his lips and blows through it like a conch shell.

The resulting SOUND is unique and piercing, the cry of an

non-existent animal. Grant is speechless with excitement. And so he

uses it again and again, producing different SOUNDS and

variations.

In the distance, flocks of birds rise to the sky and fly off.

Billy looks up to see a MAN and a WOMAN getting out of

a Cadillac. Cheryl is pointing them in the direction of the

tent.

Only now does Grant realize these two people

PAUL KIRBY is a talkative optimist with

no "off" switch. His wife AMANDA KIRBY, just

exhaustion behind her eyes.

Behind Kirby, Bill furtively rubs his thumb and fingers

together, indicating the guy is loaded.

Grant musters a weak smile.

Theyre only halfway through the entree, but Grant is ready to

bolt. It's only Billy who's keeping him from being rude. They walk

over to Paul and Amandas table and sit down.

It's everything Grant can do just to be polite. He desperately

wants to leave and get back to his dig.

Billy nudges Grant.

He places his hand on his wife's.

The Kirby's look to Grant as if they've offered him an amazing

gift. But Grant just sighs and smooths the tablecloth.

Paul is momentarily stymied, but Amanda rallies.

Grant is trying to find another way to say no, when Paul pulls

out his checkbook.

Billy looks at Grant. Don't say no.

We HOLD ON a conflicted Dr. Alan Grant.

NNNNNRRRRRRNNNNNRRRRR...

A SMALL AIRPLANE - a Beechcraft Kingair 200 Turboprop, to be

exact - cruises through clear blue skies.

Grant re-settles, trying to get comfortable. Billy is across

from him, finishing cleaning his camera lenses before putting

them back in the ragged case.

Because he hasn't really said it...

ON PAUL AND AMANDA

sitting near the front of the plane. Paul draws a long, nervous

breath and looks at Amanda. She seems just as tense.

Finally finding a comfortable position, Grant puts his hat over

his eyes, ready to take a nap.

Done with his camera, Billy turns to someone just off screen.

and we reveal...

Mercenary Cooper, the weapons specialist we met earlier. He's

wearing sunglasses so dark you can't tell whether he's staring

at you or fast asleep.

He doesn't answer. Did he even hear? And then --

The plane continues onward.

Grant slowly wakes in his chair, groggy. All the other

passengers are fast asleep. Then Grant turns to his right.

A RAPTOR

sits besides him. The dinosaur eyes him curiously, then opens

his mouth...

And than it STRIKES.

Grant wakes up with a start, disoriented. Billy is leaning over

him.

Alan. We're almost there.

The adrenaline still surging through him, Grant turns and looks

THROUGH THE WINDOW.

Clouds obscure the view, than parts reveal

ISLA SORNA

rising majestically out of the water.

We watch the plane descend sharply to the island.

In various combinations, Grant and Billy, Paul and Amanda look

out the windows at the amazingly green island.

Cooper looks out through a window of his own.

Here we find the rest of the crew from the junkyard. Nash is

piloting.

A VOICE comes over their radio headsets.

A look from Nash then Udesky switches off the radio.

The plane now descends to a mere hundred feet above the

treetops.

Paul puts his hand atop Amanda's as they stare intently out the

window.

Billy looks to Grant.

Grant will admit nothing.

Calling back from the cockpit...

Suddenly Grant spots...

An Apatosaur is grazing on the grass.

But Paul just waves him away with a hand, staring intently out

his window. We HOLD ON Grant a moment, thinking that odd.

Udesky puts down his binoculars.

Looking out the window, Grant notices they're flying awfully

low. Just then, he hears a MECHANICAL HUM and a LOW RUSH from

outside. Now wanting to believe --

Paul, Amanda and Cooper don't respond.

Paul turns back to him.

Grant is out of his seat, heading for the cockpit. He'll wrestle

the controls if he has to.

Cooper grabs him, pulling him back. Grant starts to struggle,

but he's certainly no match. A well-practiced fist hits him

dead on.

CUT TO BLACK.

we hear Amanda's voice, strangely distant but amplified.

Her calls continue as we FADE UP to...

GRANT'S P.O.V. -- blurry and disorientated. He finds himself lying

on the floor of the plane.

Seeing him come to, Billy helps him slowly get up. Grant's head

is pounding.

By his expression, we see Billy would have to lie.

The jungle has almost reclaimed this patchy vine-covered

runway. The airplane is parked at one end.

Nash, Udesky, and Cooper are checking their weapons.

Amanda is at the edge of the tarmac calling into the jungle on a

BULLHORN.

Billy and a groggy Grant emerge from the airplane. Paul trots

over.

The three mercenaries are now walking into the jungle with

their guns.

Grant looks to Amanda, who shouts through a bull horn.

As in on cue, there is a DEAFENING ROAR from the jungle.

Everyone turns toward the sound and freezes.

Grant doesn't answer, still listening to the reverberations.

Billy and Paul breathe a small sign of relief.

Nash and Udesky come RUNNING out of the jungle, headed for

the plane.

As Udesky and Nash sprint past Paul in interrupted by a

second, closer, DEAFENING ROAR. He pales.

Udesky waits by the door, hustling everyone inside. Nash

hurries into the cockpit. Everyone scrambles to a seat. Amanda

climbs next to Paul.

Udesky closes the door.

A blood-curdling SCREAM echoes through the jungle followed by

MACHINE GUN FIRE.

Udesky climbs into the copilot's seat, and Nash revs the engine.

The plane starts down the runway.

The passengers bounce in their seats as the plane picks up

speed down the overgrown strip.

Suddenly, two hundred yards ahead of the plane,

COOPER

emerges from the jungle. He stands in the middle of the runway.

waving one arm wildly. His second, badly injured arm hangs

limp by his side.

Nash spots Cooper, shoots a glance at the airspeed indicator.

He slams down full throttle in an attempt to reach flying speed.

Seeing that Nash has no intention of stopping, Paul shouts from

the cabin.

We are looking down on Cooper from behind. As the plane

approaches,

A SHADOW

falls over the injured mercenary. Then with brutal speed, an

ENORMOUS BEAST seizes him in its massive jaws and lifts him

into the air.

From this angle we get only a glimpse of a long crocodilian

snout, powerful clawed forearms and spiny sail rising from the

creature's back.

All eyes are on the creature as it devours Cooper. Amanda turns

away in horror.

Looking through the windshield, we see the creature is directly

in the path of the plane.

Nash pulls back on the stick. The plane rises.

The left propeller clips the flank of the enormous

dinosaur, SNAPPING the blade.

Blood sprays the windshield and side windows.

The turboprop banks into the jungle, out of control.

The passengers are thrown about as the craft CRASHES through

trees, tearing off a wing and pieces of the tail.

Finally coming to rest in the jungle canopy, the plane settles

in the trees.

SILENCE.

The passengers slowly recover and have a look around. Foliage

blocks most windows, making it impossible to see out.

Checking themselves, everyone seems pretty much intact.

Still thinking of himself as in charge...

He attempts to turn on the cockpit radio, but it's dead.

Paul hands the bulky phone up to Nash, who dials out.

Grant unstraps himself, climbs to the back to the side door and shoves.

The door opens a few inches before hitting a branch.

He looks out the and lets out a quiet gasp as the ground reels

THIRTY FEET BELOW.

He quickly shuts and latches the door.

CLOSE ON the sat-phone. pressed against Nash's ear.

Amanda SCREAMS.

A huge reptilian face appears in the cockpit window. Everyone

else SCREAMS now.

The plane LURCHES - and we hear a deep GROWL.

The passengers hold tight, paralyzed. Nash buckles himself into

his seat.

Suddenly, the plane is YANKED from the side to side. Battered this

way and that, the terrified passengers tightly grip their

seats.

Finally, the horrible sounds of WRENCHING METAL as the nose of

the plane is RIPPED RIGHT OFF.

Nash and Udesky are suddenly sitting in open air. The nose of

the plane is tilting downwards, the jungle floor far below.

The passengers hang almost vertically in their seats,

Debris tumbles out the open end of the plane, some of it

striking Nash in the head.

Udesky unbuckles his seat belt and climbs back up into the

cabin. Nash follows.

Suddenly, a long snout with dagger-like teeth pushes past the

cockpit seats, opens wide, and

CLAMPS DOWN

on Nash's legs.

The pilot CRIES OUT in agony. The others passengers grab onto

his arms, trying to pull him back. But it's no use. The dinosaur

rips Nash out of their grasp and down the aisle.

Nash desperately grabs on to the seat cushion, then watches in

horror as the fabric RIPS AWAY. He's pulled out of the plane and

dropped to the ground. A giant foot steps in the way as the snout

of the creature reaches down and quickly devourers the screaming

It's horrifying sight, but no one can turn away.

Pleased with the appetizer, the creature comes back for the

main course.

Grant tries to force open the jammed rear door. Billy tries to

help, but the door won't budge.

The dinosaur JAMS its snout into the fuselage and lunges for

Amanda in the first row. She yanks her legs back as the jaws

SNAP SHUT.

Behind Amanda, Billy reaches forward, UNSNAPS her seat belt

and pulls her into the next row back.

The others unstrap their belts and crowd into the rear of the

passenger compartment.

The shift in weight sends the fuselage tipping backwards.

the jungle floor.

It SLAMS hard, then flips over onto its roof.

The passengers are prowled on the ceiling of the plane, dazed

by the impact. Everyone is cut and bruised.

Out of the open cockpit, they see two approaching dino feet.

A window near Amanda fogs over with condensation. when it

clears, she finds herself looking right into enormous eyes.

Then all hell breaks loose as the plane is SLAMMED across the

jungle clearing.

The passengers are hammered against the walls of the plane,

tumbling like socks in a dryer. Debris, seats and luggage fly

everywhere.

The plane comes to an abrupt halt as it SMASHES into a tree.

A gargantuan FOOT steps on the fuselage and FLATTENS it like a

paper tube.

Inside, windows EXPLODE, raining glass over the passengers. As

the walls compress, Udesky becomes trapped in the rear of the

plane, the others in front.

Udesky dives into the narrowing gap, and Billy pulls him the

rest of the way through.

Billy is as terrified as the rest of them, but he thrives under

this rush of adrenaline.

Then a huge CLAW digs into the skin of the fuselage and begins

to slowly PEEL the plane open. Grant looks up in dread at the

widening tear.

Grant leads the group out the open end of the cockpit. They

make a mad dash for the jungle.

A tremendous ROAR causes Billy to look behind him. He can't

help but steal a glimpse of this terrifying, but utterly

fascinating, animal.

Grant yanks him forward.

With Grant in the lead, and Udesky taking up the rear, the group

tears through the jungle.

Concealed by the dense undergrowth, the unseen dinosaur bears

down on them -- mowing down the young trees which TOPPLE all

around them.

Grant spots a grove of

HEAVIER TREES

and leads the group into it.

The dinosaur cannot fit between the trunks. It ROARS at

the fleeing humans, searching desperately for a route after

them.

The group continues their relentless pace, putting as much

distance as they can between themselves and the beast. Paul

Kirby looks like he's about to have a heart attack. Even Billy

is gasping for air.

They stop, thinking they've outrun it.

Grant directs the group through some underbrush and into --

Our friends stop dead in their tracks. Amanda stifles a cry.

Before them lies an immense unmoving SAUROPOD.

Then a full-grown bull

TYRANNOSAURUS

rises up behind the carcass. It was feeding, its mouth mottled

with blood and carrion.

Grant FREEZES.

Remember: the T-Rex tracks motion.

Obeying, the group FREEZES for a few long beats. Then Udesky

takes off running.

And T-Rex ROARS.

Everyone runs. T-Rex is right behind them.

Dashing back the way they came, the group suddenly comes face

to face with --

THE FIRST MONSTER.

We now get our first full unobstructed view of the gigantic

creature, SPINOSAURUS AEGYPTICUS. Over forty feet long and

twenty-five feet high, the dinosaur has a bony sail along its

back. Its head is crocodilian with rows of long, curving teeth.

Sinewy six foot arms terminate in three fingers hands with

fourteen inch claws.

Nowhere else to run, the group scatters into the brush as the

two behemoth predators rush forward, their ROARS thunderous.

Paul and Amanda scramble into one direction, Billy and Udesky in

the other. But Grant can't go anywhere - his foot is stuck

between two branches.

He manages to free himself as the two dinosaurs approach.

They'll have to deal with each other before eating the humans.

Grant dives down between two fallen trees as the Spinosaurus and T-

Rex circle one another like gladiators, each searching for the

other's weakness.

Laying flat on his back, Grant lets out a terrified GASP as the

giant foot of Spinosaurus lands across the two trunks mere

inches from his face.

Spinosaurus lunges forward, powerful jaw open wide.

T-Rex sidesteps the assault, its tail knocking down small

trees as it spins out of the way.

In the tress, Paul and Amanda scurry again for cover.

Between the fallen trunks, Grant attempts to get away on his

hands and knees.

T-Rex presses the attack, slamming its tail into the flank of

its adversary. Spinosaurus is knocked back, and Grant is again

forced to duck for cover.

As Spinosaurus struggles to regain its balance, T-Rex dives

forward. Spinosaurus is driven backwards as T-Rex tries to

grip its throat.

Amanda yanks Paul out of their path. They Scramble over to

Billy.

Now on its side, Spinosaurus fights back ferociously. It slashes

at T-Rex with its long arms and razor sharp claws, then finally

kicks the animal with one mammoth foot.

Tyrannosaurus staggers back, wounded.

Down below, Grant is splashed by the blood pouring from the

dinosaur, as he slowly makes his way towards his fellow humans.

Spinosaurus lunges for the T-rex with gaping jaws and manages to

topple T-Rex off its feet and sends the falling dinosaur to the

ground.

With an earth-shuttering CRASH, the dinosaur lands between

Grant and the rest of the group.

The companions scurry out of the way, but as they do so, the

head of the T-Rex now lands almost directly on top of them.

Plastered against an immense tree, the group watches in horror

as T-Rex starts to rise but is thrown back down as Spinosaurus

latches onto its throat.

Spinosaurus crushes the life out of its adversary, and T-Rex

opens and closes its jaw a mere inches from our terrified

friends.

Finally, Grant reaches the others.

Spinosaurus lets out a victorious HOWL, and the blood-drenched

professor leads the group through the undergrowth.

Winded from running, Paul is caught off-guard as a furious

Grant slams his back against a tree. Only one thing he wants to

know --

Paul is too startled to speak. Udesky tires to step in, but

Grant gives him back a look.

Still crunched against the tree, Paul pulls out a photo from his

shirt pocket.

Letting go of Paul, Grant takes the photo, a Sears-style

portrait of the boy we saw Parasailing at the beginning. He

shakes his head, disbelieving. He hands the photo to Billy.

The group splits into two sides -- Paul and Amanda, Grant and

Billy -- with Udesky stuck between. Dialogue overlaps in

places.

A look between Amanda and Paul.

Grand and Billy are speechless. It might as well be eight years.

Before anyone else can talk, Grant puts his hand out. He wants

everyone to shut up while he plans their next move.

With that he leaves, A beat later, Billy follows. He has

genuine sympathy for the Kirby's, but he's logical enough to

know Grant is right.

BACK WITH PAUL AND AMANDA

They look to Udesky.

Udesky is clearly at a loss, but for everyone's reassurance he

tries to mutter some brio.

They follow after Grant and Billy.

The five survivors search through the wreckage, trying to find

anything useful. The task is grim. Mindful of Grant's

warnings, they move quickly and quietly.

Udesky picks up a gun out of the swampy water. The barrel is bent

almost 90 degrees, unless.

Billy finds his camera, intact.

Digging a change of clothes out of his suitcase, Paul steps

around the side of the plane to change. He's in his underwear

before he notices Amanda is also there changing.

A beat. Amanda looks over as they get dressed.

A nod to mean, that's the truth.

They make brief eye contact, which Amanda breaks.

Around the side, Billy is taking photos of a giant footprint the

dinosaur left in the mud during its attack on the plane. Grant

looks over.

Billy looks past Grant to see Paul approaching. He's struggling

with the straps on his backpack. turning in circles.

Billy regards him with suspicion.

Paul knows he's caught.

Grant and Udesky exchange a dubious glance.

Amanda, Paul, Billy, Udesky and Grant walk through the jungle.

The Kirby's conversation trails off into the jungle. Udesky

moves up next to Grant and Billy.

And as they continue forward, Billy spots something in the

trees ahead.

A parasail chute is caught in the branches of a tree. A yellow

life vest hangs limply from a branch.

Paul rushes over, unsnags it, and examines the label.

All turn to see Udesky holding up a camcorder encased in a

waterproof shell.

She grabs it from Udesky and pops open the housing. She tries

the power switch on the camcorder, but the battery's dead.

Udesky pull out a flashlight from his pack and looks to Amanda.

And as Udesky fiddles with the flashlight, Grant and Billy

consider the parasail.

Udesky has rigged the wires on the flashlight so that the

batteries can be used to power the camcorder.

He brings a live wire to back of the camcorder. A red power

light comes on.

Udesky swings the tiny screen out and pushes play. The others

crowd around.

ON THE SCREEEN

Eric and Ben play frisbee on the beach.

Ben catches the frisbee, checks his watch and motions to Eric.

Eric runs over, and Ben puts his arm around him as they run to

the camera.

Paul reacts to this image but holds his tongue.

THE VIDEO SCREEN -

The image now CUTS to a shot from aboard Enrique's boat

speeding towards ISLA SORNA -- the start of the movie. Eric

points excitedly at the island and smiles at the camera.

We replay the opening moments of the movie from Ben and Eric's

perspective, soaring high until...

THE JUNGLE -

A PAN from face to face of all watching this tape with a

mixture of hope and nausea.

ON SCREEN -

Angle again with Ben's legs in the foreground. Falling fast.

Now the camera penetrates the jungle canopy and the picture

and sound become complete chaos: SCREAMS from the both,

branches BREAKING, flashes of Ben and Eric's frightened faces

as the camera is buffeted in all directions.

With a lurch the terrifying descent in finally over, and the

jungle floor is just ten feet away, swaying back and forth

beneath Ben and Eric's feet.

There's GURGLING to his voice. Ben may be more hurt than he's

letting on.

The sound of PUMPLING is followed by the sight of Eric DROPPING

into the frame, landing on the ground rolling. He stands and

looks back up at Ben.

And on that, the power and picture fade away.

BACK ON PAUL AND AMANDA - overjoyed.

Amanda brings a hand to her mouth, silently nodding her head.

Grant and Billy exchange a dubious look, than begin pulling the

parasail out of the tree. As they do so, the sail gets caught on

a branch.

They pull harder. The branch bends, but the sail won't come

loose. One last tug and than, SNAP. The branch breaks, the chute

falls away to reveal...

A SKELETON.

It swings down directly at Amanda. She SCREAMS.

Finally, the others are able to pull her away. As they untangle

the lines, the men are able to get the first view of the remains

of Ben Hillenbrand, still caught in his harness.

Amanda's knees buckle. Regaining her balance, she runs off into

the jungle.

Paul quickly follows.

Reeling, Amanda comes to a stop in an area with thick

undergrowth. It's danger here, very still and quiet.

She tries to calm herself, but each effort to suppress just

makes her more emotional. She's surprised as Paul wraps an arm

around her to comfort her. But she doesn't fight it.

Saying it aloud, the reality sinks in for both of them

Checking in on clients, Udesky stops at the edge of the

thicket. Something raises the hairs on the back of his neck.

He nods for the others to take a look at this. They head over,

Grant at the rear.

As he approaches, Billy is packing up the rest of the chute in a

backpack. He stops short from what he sees.

Looking down, we CIRCLE across the jungle floor. Here we find a

strange, hollowed-out construction made of sod and branches.

Maybe six feet around.

Just now noticing the others' stare, Paul looks down into one

of the bowls at his feet, a half-buried nest. It's filled with

football-sized eggs, laid in a spiral.

And this isn't the only nest. Amanda counts twelve in all, laid

out in an oddly symmetrical pattern.

The last to arrive, Grant identifies the species in a horrified

instant.

the cry of some herbivores, around by the chorus of

snarls.

The party blasts through the forest, trying to keep up with

Grant. They haven't even had time to ask --

Paul has no idea.

From the back --

They all stop. The only one not there is --

He comes in from the left. Excited, he explains to Grant --

Furious with his student. Grant just keeps moving. There's no

time to stand around and argue.

A beat. Trying not to sound presumptuous --

Much fatigued, the five now mach upward towards a crest.

Panting and flushed, they reach the top of the ridge and gaze

into the distance.

A jungle valley stretches before them. Not far off in A VAST

COMPOUND - comprised of several buildings. One building alone

seems to cover several acres.

The weary group breathes a sigh of relief.

Udesky and Grant share dubious looks and continue down into

the valley.

The group emerges from the jungles and enters the compound.

They walk through an overgrown parking lot, littered with

abandoned vehicles. Some are lying on their side. Others are

overturned completely.

They're not going to be driving anywhere.

A troubled Grant peers through a windshield, partially caved

in, like some giant head butted the glass. (Think back to Lost

And the group finally approaches the front doors of an

enormous building. As they head up the front steps, we see

something in the distance behind them:

CAT-LIKE MOVEMENTS

on the high ridge. To fast to see what it was. But too ominous

to dismiss.

Our friends now find themselves in a sparse, one quietly

opulent corporate lobby now in the process of being reclaimed

by the jungle/ Roots and ivy poke through the floor and walls.

In the waiting area, the cushions of a sofas and chairs have been

gnawed at and pulled apart. Dusty coffee mugs and filled

ashtrays lie on the table. The water has turned brackish in a

near by cooler.

Sudden FLAPPING. We look up and see BIRDS nesting in the

rafters. It is an eerie, haunted place.

All listen for a response. Nothing. Paul and Amanda exchange a

despondent look.

Sitting on the reception counter is an official-looking

telephone. Everyone has the same thought, but no one dares.

Finally -

Amanda puts the receiver to her ear. Nada.

With Grant in the lead, they head deeper into the building.

Unseen by the group, a fleeting SHADOW flits across the lobby's

dirty windows with terrifying speed.

A couple vending machines stand at the one end of this long

hallway covered with vines.

Paul notices them and pulls change from his pocket.

Billy SMASHES IN the window of one machine with his boot.

Picking through the glass, he pulls out some candy bars and

chips. He checks the expiration date.

CONTINUED:								56

He tosses the food to the others.

Paul now turns to his own vending machine and SMASHES it with

his heal. The glass refuses to break.

Grant and Billy push through a set of doors to see

A CAVERNOUS HATCHING FACILITY

filled with much of the same equipment we recognized from the

first island, although the sheer size of this place dwarfs any

of the facilities seen previously.

As the group walks down the ramp and onto the floor, they begin to

absorb the incredible array of technology: enormous cryonic

freezer, their plug pulled years ago; empty incubators; tanks

of formaldehyde with dinosaur fetuses and body parts.

Machines with intricate tubing and wing arms stand beside

conveyer belts cris crossing the room at different levels.

Billy looks around the lab. He can't help but be impressed.

Grant nods.

Billy sets his lucky camera back down on the worktable. Two years

from now, astute observers of the DVD will not that Billy

doesn't actually take his camera from the bag; he was carrying

it because there wasn't any room inside.

Billy pulls a new roll of film from the bag and zips it shut.

ACROSS THE LAB

Amanda is passing a large cylindrical tanks with half-formed

embryos floating in formaldehyde -- genetic experiments gone

awry. Finally she reaches

A GIGANTIC MANIFIED RAPTOR HEAD

floating in the one tank.

Something about this specimen catches Amandas attention. She

bends forward, getting very close to the glass. She peers right

into the eyes of the nightmarish creature. Then --

AN ACTUAL RAPTOR

lunges at her form behind the tank. She SCREAMS.

Fortunately the raptor can't get between the closely spaced

tanks. Amanda runs.

And as the group races through the lab the Raptors find a

larger gap between the tanks.

Paul leads the way, checking the door for possible escape

routes or hiding places. Twenty feet behind,

THE RAPTOR

rounds a corner, bolting after them. Paul ducks in the closest

door.

The group slams the door behind them and quickly takes in the

room.

There are several rows of oversized steel cages, apparently

used for containing young dinosaurs. Many of the cage doors are

standing open.

The group races down a lone aisle. Close behind, the raptor

BURSTS into the room, ROARS.

As the Raptor gains ground, Udesky and Billy run into one of the

open cages, SLAMMING the door behind them.

Grant, Paul and Amanda duck into another. Before they can

swing the cage door shut behind them, however, the raptor SLAMS

into it, driving the door into the cage.

They are forced back against a chain-like wall, trapped in a

small triangle space by the advancing door. The angry

Raptor is now inches away through the cage door.

Then, suddenly, the raptor looks up. We follow its gaze. The top

of their triangular enclose is wide open.

The eager raptor climbs up the chain-like door. Catching the

tail of an idea, Amanda grabs the door and nods to the others.

They push hard on the cage door, swinging it and the raptor

right through the opening of the cage.

Now the raptor is trapped in a small triangular space, the door

going right to the ceiling.

Amanda slides the door's bolt through the chain like wall,

temporarily trapping the dinosaur.

The raptor struggles desperately, GRAWLING AND SNARLING, but

the cage door seems to be holding.

As everyone rushes back to the door.

The raptor begins to make a LOW, HAUNTING MOAN.

As the others head for the door, Grant lingers a step, listening

to the beast's simple melodic cry. It has the same tones as

came from the model resonating chamber.

The group exits the rear of the lab building and finds itself in

a large equipment yard. The CALL of the raptor is still audible

as they head for the tree line.

Now they moan is ANSWERED from distant jungle quarters.

The responses quickly MULTIPLY. To the group's dismay, they

soon find themselves virtually SURROUNDED by raptor CRIES both

distant and near.

Grant looks around with amazement. It's vindication of his

theory on raptor communication, but it couldn't come at a worse

time.

Responding to the growls, a herd of grazing HADROSAURS suddenly

flees across the open space. Then, in the distance behind the

herd

A PACK OF RAPTORS

emerges from the jungles, coming their way.

From the lab building, the raptor we left imprisoned now BURSTS

out one of the doors and HOWLS to the pack -- the same cry we

heard in the lab.

The raptor pack moves into the hunting formation. One ALPHA-MALE

RAPTOR. slightly larger than the others, leads the charge up the

middle.

Grant risks a looks back. But doesn't stop running.

In an effort to escape the oncoming raptors, Grant leads the

group right into the stampeding heard of hadrosaurs.

Suddenly, all is chaos. Hadrosaurs race past, splitting up the

group.

Letting the others get ahead of him, Grant looks back. Much to

his dismay, the raptors are ignoring the hadrosaurs.

Indeed, the pack weaves its way through the herd -- the raptors

only want them.

In the chaos of the stampede, everyone loses sight of each other.

Up ahead, Billy trips and falls. As he rolls the strap on his

camera bag breaks. He doesn't notice it's missing until he's

already back on his feet and running.

Amanda and Paul keep close to each other. Further back, Grant

spots Billy's fallen camera back. He grabs it as he runs past.

Looking back, Billy sees that Grant now has his back...

They lose sight of each other in the rush.

As the hadrosaurs WHIP PAST, Paul and Amanda climb up into a

tree. A raptor leaps at Paul, barely missing his leg.

Trying to pull Paul up, Amanda nearly loses her balance. This

time, Paul catchers her.

Billy climbs up a nearby tree of his own in sight of Paul and Amanda.

Udesky has nearly reached a tree of his own when he finds

himself

HEADED OFF

by a raptor. He turns to the other way, but finds

THERE ARE MORE RAPTORS.

He picks up a fallen branch as these dinosaurs cautiously

approach. Not more than a few feet away, the leader of the trio

stops, peering at him.

Udesky swings hard, but the dinosaurs feints. From behind him,

another raptor slashes at the back of his legs, severing his

muscles. Udesky CRIES OUT and drops to the ground.

IN THE TREETOPS

Paul, Amanda and Billy can hear him.

From here, the thick branches overlap, forming a kind of

"second floor" above the ground. It's not easy, but you can move

from branch to branch, tree to tree.

ON THE FLOOR

Unable to walk, Udesky attempts to crawl away from the animals.

The effort clearly causes him great pain. Strangely, the

raptors suddenly don't seem interested in him anymore.

Rather, they're "talking" among themselves. Udesky is amazed to

find him self still alive.

Suddenly, one of the raptors SLASHES at him again. But it's

delicately not a mortal blow, just a very painful one. Udesky

CRIES OUT, louder this time.

IN THE TREES

Hearing the new cry, Paul, Amanda and Billy move faster, now

finally seeing Udesky on the ground. He's face-down, barely

moving but still MOANING.

The raptors are gone.

In the lead, Amanda starts to climb down. But Paul grabs her,

holds her back.

She breaks from Paul's grip and drops to the ground. She's only

a foot away from the tree when

ALL FOUR RAPTORS

lead out from their hiding places. They almost catch her as

Billy and Paul pull her back up on the limb

The raptors stare up at them, angry their plan didn't work.

Bored with waiting, the raptors go back to finish off Udesky,

making a meal out of it. Up in the branches, the survivors are

horrified and sickened.

Then, from the deep in the forest, a new RAPTOR CRY. The feasting

raptors look up, listening, then suddenly run off into the dark

jungle.

Climbing higher in a tree, Grant is just feet above a growing

pack of raptors. He scales one branch, the next, finally

reaching a perch that the dinosaurs can't jump to.

LOOKING DOWN

The entire pack is now standing still, watching him. In the

center, the Alpha Male lets out a sort of BARK. Responding to the

cry, the other raptors CALL BACK.

As terrified as he is, he can't help but be fascinated by their

communication. Like a hellish bird song, there's a rhythm to it,

a structure. They're clearly talking about something.

Under his breath, Grant is able to mimic its patterns.

Of course they can't answer. They just keep using the same

"phrase."

Ready to ditch Billy's camera bag in order to climb higher --

he's had to hold it by the strap -- Grant finds his hand covered

with a runny slime. He looks down at the camera bag, and that's

the source. It's oozing out the bottom.

He unzips the bag to find

A BROKEN RAPTOR EGG

inside, the white and green yolk still dripping from the pieces

of the shell. There's another intact egg beside it.

This is what the raptors where chasing.

Ever the scientist, Dr. Grant tests a theory even in the face of

danger: he holds up the intact egg so that the raptors can see it.

They suddenly go crazy, howling the same phrase but LOUDER.

He gently drops the bag to the ground. Although the raptors are

interested, pulling out the unbroken egg, they're still by no means

placated. The song may have changed, but they still want Grant

dead.

They begin to jump at him, eventually, hopping up on each

others backs. It's only a matter of time till they reach him.

Grant moves to climb higher, but sees no branches he can reach.

And than he hears the low CREAKING. A CRACK. The branch he's

on is starting to give in.

He looks down at the face of his enemies, knowing he'll be

their next meal. And then,

A SMALL CANISTER

lands at the base of the trees, immediately SPRAYING out a thick

cloud of oily fog. It's the first of

FIVE CANISTERS

that land in the area, creating a thick cloud. It's not just

smoke though something far more caustic.

As it hits the raptors they immediately recoil, those closest

to the canisters SHRIEKING in pain. Tumbling in the dirt.

There may be a pheremonal element to the mist as well -- they

seem panicked, disoriented.

Pack mentality takes over, and after the first ten raptors take

off running, so do the rest, some tripping over their feet

blindly.

This may be dino-tear gas, but it's not good for humans either.

Up in the tree, Grant's eyes immediately burn from the vapor

He squints to see through the fog, where he spots

A HUMAN SHAPE

at the edge of the smoke

Grant half-climbs, half-falls out of the tree, rushing to get

through the heaviest of the smoke.

A SMALL DIRTY HAND

grabs his, pulling him along.

Eyes swollen from the gas. Grant stumbles, barely able to see as

the other person pulls him along. It's only now we can identify

his rescuer as

ERIC KIRBY,

the boy he was brought to rescue. A lot has changed in the last

eight weeks. It's not just dirt and muck -- he's the filthiest

child you've ever seen -- something primal has come out in him.

Something wild.

On the far side of the tipped over vehicle, Eric pulls open a

hatch -- his hiding place. The door opens part way.

Eric motions for Grant to follow.

Squeezing in sideways -- it's very tight fit -- Grant finds

himself in a space no bigger than the inside of a Datsun. lit by

a small battery-powered lantern. This is where Eric has been

hiding.

The minute Grant's inside, Eric goes back to work re-sealing

the door. This 13-year old boy has become astonishingly

efficient at staying alive.

The boy holds up a hand. He listens for a moment. He doesn't

hear anything outside.

Eric truly can't believe it. He hoped to be rescued but...

Eric studies his guest, finally certain he recognizes him.

Grant takes a better look around Eric's tiny hideaway,

impressed with what he's been able to scavenge. Among the many

items we see another smoke canister, some battery-powered

lanterns and lots of candy wrappers. This kid's been living on

chocolate for weeks.

Eric pulls up a long cattle prod to show Grant.

The line catches Eric strangely. It's the first moment of true

emotion we've seen him in.

Eric rips into a candy bar. After a moment, he realizes he

should offer one to his guest as well.

Grant takes it. A lone beat. Than, Grant just has to know...

Grant smiles.

The trio is where we left them, perched up in the branches.

They're far from safe, but nothing's after them for a

while.

In Billy's eyes, we can see a storm of guilt raging. But he

hasn't said anything. Won't say anything.

Amanda is impressed by her own determinations. A long beat.

No one has the faintest clue.

VARIOUS SHOTS; The creatures of Isla Sorna walk past in the

shadows, some looking up at the light in the trees.

Suddenly, one of the creatures is attacked by another. We hear

ROLLING, SNARLING, HISSING, just seeing the outline of the

fight. Just as fast as it began, the fight is over, the winner

snakes on the loser.

Everyone's moved to different branches, trying to settle in for

the night. Paul keeps looking over to the tearful Amanda, about

to say something. He finally does.

Amanda looks over, not sure what his absolution.

Realizing he's trying his best, Amanda cant stay angry with

him.

Really looking at her...

Morning on Isla Sorna. A low mist hangs tight to the forest

floor as Eric seals up his hideaway for hopefully the last time.

They start walking. Eric pulls something out of his pocket,

shows it off to Grant.

Grant hands it back.

Eric is becoming more and more a normal thirteen-year old boy.

There's an innocence to him that's coming back.

Billy and Amanda wait for Paul as he comes out of the bushes,

hiking up his shorts.

Trying to take charge...

Billy represses his instinct to say Eric's dead.

As Grant and Eric walk, both stop, hearing a strange sound. But

for a change, it's not an ominous one.

It's a human one.

A phone is RINGING, very faintly. Without a word to each other,

Grant and Eric decide its coming from the right.

Paul is picking the briars out of his socks as they hike,

risking tripping on every step. Then Amanda stops short. She's

the first to hear it:

THE SAME RINGING.

After a beat, everyone else can hear it too. And recongnition

finally lights on Paul's face...

Suddenly, Paul frantically searches his pockets as the others

anxiously watch.

And Paul wracks his memory...

Bust suddenly, he stops, his face is lighting with an awful

realization. Amanda couldnt bear the wait...

The hideous implication of his words slowly sink in.

Still following the faint RINGING, Grant and Eric turn to find

A SAIL

moving through the low trees. We recognize it as the back of a

spinosaurus. We might think it's any random spinosaurus,

except for the RINGING coming from somewhere inside it.

Grant and Eric press back against a tree, keep perfectly

still as they hear the THOOOOMB, THOOOOMB, THOOOMB of the

creature's footsteps reverberating. It's tail RUSTKES against

the brush.

It's moving behind them, and it's close.

We hear the RINGING move from left to right as it passes. So

far, its has no idea they're there.

Looking across the clearing, Eric is startled to see

PAUL AND AMANDA

are no more than 20 yards away, also hiding. An involuntary

reflex, Eric calls out...

Grant immediately covers the boys mouth. But it's to late.

The dinosaur has stopped. We still can't see it. We don't know how

close it is.

Paul and Amanda spot Eric with Grant. They're a thousand

emotions at once: relieved, disbelieving, terrified, overjoyed.

They want to run to him, to yell out to him, but the monster is

close.

Grant takes his hand off Eric's mouth. They both stay

completely silent.

All this time, the sat-phone is RINGING.

Than it stops.

And after an agonizing beat, the beast moves. At first we're

not sure which direction it's headed, but finally we can tell

its moving away.

Once the sail is finally out of sight, Eric breaks from Grant's

hold and dashes to his parents' arms. They coop him up. Hug

him, kiss him, their affection unquenchable. He's crying.

Looking at her grubby son, Amanda licks her shirttail, trying

to rub his face clean.

She LAUGHS. It's the first times she's laughed in two months.

Billy crosses the distance to Grant.

He walks off. Billy follows him.

Grant doesn't respond.

Grant shakes his head, disgusted, But doesn't stop.

Grant keeps walking, leaving Billy with his guilt.

The group enters a structure with giant windows designed to

look into the canyon beyond -- only there's nothing to see but a

thick fog.

Toward the center of the room, a spiral staircase that leads to

a lower level.

With Billy lagging, Grant approaches the stairs and peers down

the circular opening in the floor. There is not much to see, just

fog, a glint of sunlight.

Step by step, Grant leads the group down a rusty spiral

staircase below the observation room. The stairs end in a lower

level. Although we're technically outside, this whole place feel

strangely enclosed.

There's a thick fog at this level -- clouds, really -- but far

below we can see the river. And at its banks, a barge.

Grant leads everyone down a RAMP to --

A catwalk branches off, a SET OF STAIRS continuing down the

along the canyon wall.

Grant starts down the stairs. He's only taken a few steps down

the rusty staircase suddenly

BREAKS BENEATH HIS FEET.

Paul grabs him in the nick of time. The staircase vanish into

the fog. CLANFING AGAINST the canyon wall. After a few more

seconds of silence, they hear the CRASH far below.

Grant nods and looks in the other direction.

Their only other option is a precarious catwalk that

disappears into the mist.

The only way to get his-near-fall is to push ahead. But his

stomach turns at being so high.

Amanda follows. The catwalk creaks and groans, listing

slightly. She freezes mid-stride.

Amanda steps of and Grant carefully pushes forward,

disappearing into the thick fog.

The others listen to the CREAKING of the catwalk until it STOPS

ABRIPTLY.

SILENCE.

More silence. Then, out of the fog, a distant voice call out --

Amanda steps tentatively forwards. Eric is clinging to her.

As Paul holds Eric, and Amanda shares a look.

Eric reluctantly releases her mother. Amanda starts to cross.

Grant has stopped at a lateral support across the

catwalk, trying to get the sense of where they are and what

purpose this place may have served.

Seeing that the support beams are brace high arched walls of steal

mesh, it becomes obvious that we are inside this vast

construction.

Amanda emerges from the mist and turns back to the catwalk.

Eric is next to go across. He's still tentative.

Billy and Paul look on as Eric disappears into the vapor.

Eric slowly gropes his way forward. He feels a GUST OF WIND and

a HEAVY THUD ahead on the catwalk which now sways beneath

him.

Regaining his balance, Eric peers forward, but the fog prevents

him from seeing more than fifteen feet ahead. There is an EERIE

SILENCE. Eric calls out timidly.

Across the canyon, Grant moves across the later support. With

his hand on the railing, he sends a white, hardened substance

dropping into the mist.

Looking up, Grant notices a large strut, covered with the same

substance. Realizing what it could be.

Then, the sound of Eric SCREAMING.

Eric watches as A LOOMING SHAPE emerges from the fog -- a

nightmarish vision stalking purposefully forward.

A FULL GROWN PTERANODON,

standing over seven feet high, walks upright on clawed feet, his

thirty foot wings folded bat-like at his side.

The creature sees Eric and fixes him with a demonic glare.

Eric CRIES OUT and dashes back down the teetering catwalk.

The Pteranodon ruses to its feet, spreads its thirty-foot wings

and flies directly at him.

AT THE OTHER END OF THE CATWALK

Hearing Eric's SCREAMS, Paul charges onto the catwalk,

searching in the fog.

Suddenly,

ERIC

emerges from the fog, racing toward his father. And then

THE PTERANODON

swoops out of the fog, opens its giant rear claws, and snatches

the terrified boy from the catwalk.

Paul Kirby watches in stunned, abject horror as the Pteranodon

carries Eric directly overhead --

The flying reptile struggles with the boy's weight. Paul

watches helplessly as Eric is carried high across the canyon.

Paul runs back alone the catwalk in a desperate attempt to keep

Eric in sight.

Billy stays behind, moving back up the platform to try to

keep the dinosaur in view. With a new idea, he races back up the

stairs to the observation room. He has a way to save Eric.

When he reaches the canyon wall, Paul turns a corner and runs

along another enclosed catwalk leading deeper into the canyon.

Grant and Amanda now come pounding down the catwalk trying to

catch up with Paul.

THE PTERANODON

carries Eric deeper into the canyon. The creature's wings beat

steadily overhead, and the WIND is fierce. Eric looks down and

sees the river far below.

The Pteranodon swoops over an isolated outcropping of rocks at

the end of the canyon and drops Eric into --

A large bowl of mud and branches the size of a satellite dish.

Eric lands right on top of a pile of dinosaur bones picked

clean. Mixed among is one human skull.

Before Eric has time to cry out, he looks up to find

SIX PTERANODON HATCHLINGS

closing in on him with sharp-edged beaks.

He picks up the human skull and whips it to the hatchlings.

They easily duck it and keep coming.

Grant looks up to see Billy leaning out over the edge of the

observation platform. He suddenly realizes what Billy is about

to do.

Billy SHOUTS BACK, an excited-terrified grin on his face.

Billy jumps off the railing and

DROPS TOWARDS THE CANYON BELOW.

Grant, Paul and Amanda watch as Billy FALLS past them like a

stone, plummeting towards certain death. But then --

THE PARASAIL CHUTE

blossoms above him.

Not only does it slows Billy's descent, but he even manages to

catch an updraft and begin to rise.

He struggles to control the parasail, swooping dangerously

close to the canyon wall, barely avoiding it.

Up ahead he catches sight of Eric and steers towards him.

Eric struggles to keep away from the hatchlings. But there's

no way out of this nest.

Billy SWOOPS overhead, but he's too high to reach Eric.

He circles around to make another attempt.

Paul rounds the corner and finally catches sight of Eric in the

nest, some fifty feet below, fighting off the hatchlings.

Paul sees an outcropping he could jump onto from here. It's a

big leap, though, he might not make it. He steels himself up for

the jump, then chickens out.

Grant and Amanda come up behind him. Suddenly,

A SECOND PTERANODON

CRASH LANDS on the catwalk enclosure about them -- right next

to a gaping hole in the mesh. The catwalk GROANS with the

extra weight.

The pteranodon JAMS its head through the hole, SNAPPING at

them.

Billy circles, making his approach.

In the nest, Eric kicks at the hatchlings, but they're

undeterred. Billy and Eric will only have one chance.

As Billy swoops past, Eric jumps and grabs onto his boot. He is

yanked up and out of the nest. But than, MOTHER PTERANODON

shoots past, tearing out a piece of the parasail in its beak.

The pteranodon who landed on the top of the catwalk continues to

SNAP through the hole in the enclosure.

Finally the reptile's massive weight proves to much, and the

entire section of the catwalk BREAKS FREE of the canyon wall

and FLIPS OVER LATERALLY.

Amanda, Grant and Paul are able to hang on, but so is the

pteranodon, who now climbs their way.

His parasail badly damaged, Billy tries to keep aloft. Heading

as low as he dares, he yells to Eric --

Terrified, Eric falls into the river safely. He surfaces,

immediately swimming to shore.

Trying to gain altitude, Billy bends hard to the right. But the

rigging is too badly damaged. He flies right into the canyon

wall, hitting hard.

Instead of tumbling down to the river, he finds himself

swinging from his harness - the parasail snagged on a rock

spire above him.

Paul, Grant and Amanda struggle to stay away from the

pteranodon as it moves towards them.

Suddenly. the far end of this inverted section of catwalk

detaches from the canyon wall and

SWINGS DOWNWARD.

The force of the action sends the three tumbling directly

towards the pteranodon.

Miraculously, they manage to avoid its open beak. But they

are all sent plummeting toward the river below.

They hit the water hard, resurfacing moments later. The

current is carrying them downstream.

The two pteranodons who were pursuing Billy now land on nearby

ledges and consider how best to dispatch their prey.

Billy frantically tries to unhook his harness, but the tension

is so tight from his own weight that he can't loosen the

buckles.

Paul and Amanda emerge from the water by the canyon wall and

find their son hiding behind a rock, searching the skies for

Billy.

Amanda takes Eric tightly in her arms, and Paul urges them to

keep moving. Up ahead, the mesh of the aviary meets the river.

Wading the shore, Grant now scans the canyon, searching for

Billy. It doesn't take long to spot him.

Billy continues to struggle with the harness but to no avail.

The doomed young man is suspended high up on the canyon wall

like a modern Prometheus, an entire FLOCK of pteranodons

gathering around him preparing to peck away his liver. And

everything else.

A MAMMOTH PTERANADON has landed beside him and looks him

straight in the eye.

The gigantic creature lunges at him. Billy dodges away as best

he can. The pteranodon's frustrated bite severs a crucial

juncture on Billy's harness, and Billy is able to wriggle free.

Eric, Amanda, Paul and Grant watch in amazement as Billy is the

last to PLUNGE DOWN into the river.

Billy bobs to the surface and spots the group downstream. He

waves and begins to swim towards them. Soon he nears the shore

and gets to his feet, wading as he comes.

Grant, Paul, Amanda and Eric hurry to meet him.

Grant is overjoyed to see him alive. But his smile quickly

fades as he sees

THE ENTIRE FLOCK OF PTERANODONS

diving down from above in angry pursuit of their lost prey.

Billy glances behind him. He races forward, motioning fro his

companions to turn around.

Just then Billy is knocked down by the lead pteranodon. It

strikes from behind with a brutal, calculated beak to the head.

Billy stumbles and falls to the ground.

Grant rushes forward with Paul right after him. Amanda takes

Eric to safety down river.

Billy SCREAMS as the ENTIRE FLOCK of pteranodons now swarms

around him, picking him apart with their beaks and claws.

Grant can't take his eyes off Billy, whose BLOOD stains the

water rushing by.

And now several pteranodons are heading their way. Difficult

as it is to leave Billy behind, Grant and Paul make a run for it.

Just as the pteranodons are about to swoop in for the kill, Alan

and Paul dive back into the river...

...and resurfaces on the far side of the mesh aviary wall, GASPING

for air. Just behind them, the mammoth

PTERANODON

CRASHES into the mesh. It tears at the steel, actually ripping

it in one place.

At the dock up ahead, Amanda and Eric have found a rusty,

waterlogged barge that's somehow still floating. Carrying a

tarp-covered cage, the boat was meant for transporting dinos

up and down the river.

Amanda pushes them away from the dock as Alan and Paul climb

on board.

The current takes the craft downstream, letting us get our

first good look at the incredible

AVIARY.

It's a vast, domed mesh structure that spans the entire canyon.

In all, a feat of remarkable engineering and unmistakable

hubris.

Catching their breath, our four survivors look at the cage they

were caught in.

Yanking the starter rope one final time, Paul finally gets the

engine to turn over, PUTTERING along. Amanda is beside him,

bailing water.

Grant is beside Eric, keeping watch, but also feeling the weight

of Billy's death.

Eric looks over, not sure what that means.

The barge starts to round a bend. On the bow, Grant and Eric

are the fist to see something remarkable. Eric GASPS,

unprepared. We don't know yet what they see.

At the rear of the barge, Paul just now sees what's ahead. Awe-

struck, he slows the motor and motions for Amanda to take a

look. And so do we.

UP AHEAD

The setting sun illuminates an incredible valley filled with

dinosaurs. We see armored ANKYLOSAURS with clubbed

tails. Duck-billed CORYTHOSAURS. We float under the gigantic,

arching necks of eighty-foot BRACHIOSAURS.

With the mist from the river and the play of light, we're

witnessing a kind of primal Eden.

A FULL MOON passes behind clouds. THUNDER quietly rumbles, and

LIGHTNING flickers in the distance.

Paul is still at the wheel. The river is narrower here, and

cautions must be taken to avoid the banks.

As the barge begins to round another bend. a FAMILIAR HIGH-

PITCHED SOUND pierces the darkness. Muffled but unmistakable,

it is the RINGING SAT-PHONE.

All exchange looks of sheer PANIC, expecting Spinosaurus to

leap out at any moment. Grant scans the river banks.

Paul cuts the motor, and time seems to stop as the four stand

posed for action.

The barge finishes rounding the curve, and the ringing grows

LOUDER. The suspense is excruciating until finally...

Their eyes widen at some horrifying sight, more horrifying

than anything they've yet seen.

SEVEN MOUNDS OF DINOSAUR DUNG sit on the patch off treeless flat

ground just beyond the river bank.

As our friends consider the sight, an idea comes to them all of them

almost simultaneously.

With Eric still in the boat, Amanda, Paul, and Alan jump into

the river and rush to the bank.

The three companions sprint towards the source of the RINGING.

And bracing themselves and hocking their breath, they PLUNGE

their arms into their respective dung-heaps. After a few

moments of this disgusting search...

All turn to Paul. Clearing away the clinging defecation, he

holds up to a beeper. And still the phone RINGS.

Returning to their bleak task, they shovel the excrement with

their arms. Finally:

Grant snatches the RINGING SAT-PHONE from Amanda's hands,

presses a button, and puts it to his ear.

The Kirbys hear the recorded voice and let out a collective,

heavy sigh. Grant shuts off the phone.

In all the excitement, none of them notice a fierce horned

CARNOTAUR right behind them. The giant creature ROARS, ready

to eat them.

But as it gets in close, it smells them. Even a dinosaur won't

eat something that is covered in shit. After a beat, the

Carnotaur turns and walks away, back into the jungle.

CLOSE ON the cleaned satellite phone's display. The battery

level indicator is FLASHING.

Paul glares at her. Now Eric notices something odd in the

river.

The others look down in the murky water. Just below the

surface,

A SHIMMERING WAVE OF SILVER

passes beneath the boat.

Then a SINGLE FISH jumps from the water. And another. And

another.

Another roll of THUNDER, this time much closer.

Paul moves the motor and pulls the start cord. The engine

sputters but won't come to life.

And now the phone BEEPS. The battery is getting even weaker.

Grant makes a quick decision and DIALS.

But Grant ignores the question. RING. RING.

Wearing his jammies, three-year old Charlie awkwardly picks up

the phone with both hands. He has the mouthpiece next to his

lips, but the earpiece is hanging out in space.

INTERCUT

Recognizing who it must be...

A long silence. Charlie bites his lip, looks around.

The sat-phone BEEPS again, this time much LOUDER.

Amanda and Eric watch Grant, realizing their fate may hang on

this single call. Paul struggles without success to start the

motor.

Then, unseen by the group, a

GIGANTIC FIN

rises from the water just fifty yards from the barge. It's

headed right to them and closing fast.

Not sure what to do with the phone, Charlie makes a logical

choice and hangs it back up.

He walks away to his mom.

Grant realizes he's been cut off. He's about to redial when

WHAM!

The barge is RAMMED, sending everyone tumbling. Grant manages

to stay on top of the wheelhouse, but he loses grip on the

phone, which falls on deck.

SPINOSAURUS

rises from the water, towering over the barge. As lightning

FLASHES and thunder CRACKS, the dinosaur lets out an ear-

splitting ROAR.

It lunges at Grant with gaping jaws. Grant leaps out of

the way just in time as the dinosaur

RIPS OFF

the entire wheelhouse.

Charlie leads Ellie into the room. Hands her the phone. Of

course, it's just a DIAL TONE.

Ellie looks at him with confusion, then quickly checks the

Caller ID box besides the phone. It's international, and not a

number she recognizes.

Grant stays one step ahead of the Spinosaurus as the beast rips

apart the quickly-sinking boat.

It spits out the wheelhouse and bites down on the stern of the

boat, ripping off a chunk.

Grant is heading up to the other three when he hears the sat-

phone RING.  He spots it, just about to fall into the water.

Dives for it, answering...

She can hear the Spinosaurus ROAR.

But he's cut off by a SECOND ROAR, the sound of someone

SCREAMING.

And then the line goes dead.

Ellie pales. Charlie looks at her with a smile.

Dropping the dead phone, Grant scrambles towards the front of

the boat and joins Paul, Amanda and Eric, who have taken refuge

in the dinosaur cage.

The fearsome beast now lifts the stern of the boat clear out of

the water.

The cage SCRAPES across the deck and SLAMS into the gunwale,

toppling off the barge and

INTO THE RIVER.

Grant and the Kirbys are still inside.

The cage sinks. The closest to the door, Paul manages to get out.

The other three aren't as lucky. The cage rotates as it descends

and lands on the river bottom with the door side down, trapping

them inside.

In the cold murky depths, they pull frantically on the bars.

Debris and equipment float around them.

Paul surfaces out of the breath and disoriented. Spinosaurus

pushes past the boat. If anyone is going to save his family, it

has to be him.

And so he dives.

Pushing with all his might, he manages to tip the heavy

structure, just enough so Amanda, Eric and Grant can get out.

Paul himself isn't so lucky.

Spinosaurus grabs the cage and Paul, throwing both straight up

out of the water. Paul flies twenty feet away, further from the

shore.

Spinosaurus is going after the heroic Mr. Kirby, who dives,

swimming underwater. He's trying to lead it away from his

family.

He points to a heavy crane assembly, designed for lifting cages

off the large boats. Now well accustomed to fleeing on

command, Amanda sends Eric up first, climbing the scaffolding

like a jungle gym.

All the while, they're trying to spot Paul.

Grant is the last to climb, reaching the first section as

Spinosaurus returns from the water, SLAMMING into the base of

the crane. The whole assembly SHUDDERS, threatening to rip into

the water.

Try as it might, the beast can't climb the crane. So instead it

RAMS it, SHAKES it, trying to knock them off. Eric slips, but

Amanda catches him.

About to shed his bag to climb higher, Grant finds one last

hope. It's the resonation chamber model. A beat before he

decides: It may not be the best choice, but it's the only choice.

He blows through it, the same EERIE PITCH we heard before. On

the third try, he's able to approximate the "egg" cry he heard

the raptors give. He keeps it up, repeating over and over.

Spinosaurus stops for a beat, confused How this sound could be

coming from a non-raptor. But then keeps SMASHING.

We can hear the mounting bolts STRAIN. Soon the whole crane

will tip.

But not before a MATCHING CRY is heard in the jungle. Grant

stops, not certain he heard it. But there it is AGAIN.

He keeps blowing.

The crane is close to tipping when a single RAPTOR appears

from the darkness, CHIRP-BARKING at the Spinosaur, who simply

bats away.

But then MORE RAPTORS come. And even MORE. Soon there are

dozens gathering, circling.

Grant stops signaling. All three survivors watch with

horrified fascination, knowing their fate is perilous no matter

which side wins.

Looking at his adversaries, Spinosaurus ROARS. And suddenly

the raptors attack.

Spinosaurus easily handles the first few, but like ants they

just keep coming. They climb up his back, slicing, into him with

their razor-sharp claws.

All three drop from the crane arm into the water.

Meanwhile, the fight continues. Spinosaurus rallies, shaking

off many of the raptors, but they just keep coming. Their

hooked claws dig in, scraping the meat to the bone.

Spinosaurus puts up a brave fight to the end, but finally

collapses, dead. The raptors continue to shred it to ribbons.

Then one of the raptors looks over to see the survivors

swimming away.

But a bird in the hand is worth two in the bush. It goes back to

its meal.

Grant is trying to move them along. still headed downstream.

But Eric won't budge another foot.

She kneels down, facing him. She's just as upset as he is, but

motherhood carries the burden of remaining calm.

Eric nods.

Out of the darkness steps Paul Kirby. Amanda is knocked over

with surprise. Eric runs to him, nearly tackling him.

Amanda hugs him and Eric so tightly they can't breath.

The foursome sit back on the wide beach, one facing

each direction, keeping watch. A light rain is falling, but they

don't seem to notice.

Trying to keep his boy's spirit up...

Eric really smiles, remembering the day.

Amanda is smiling too. She had completely forgotten the

incident.

To Paul, after some consideration....

Her hand takes his, gently brushing off the wet sand, fingertips

touching. It's a small thing, but it's a start.

Sensing his cue to leave, Grant gets up and starts walking down

the beach. Eric hurries to follow him. He speaks

conspiratorially, not wanting to alarm his parents.

A long beat as they walk.

As they keep walking, Grant notices something rammed against

the rocks ahead. It's a speedboat, its hull ripped open from the

impact.

And it's not just any boat either -- it's the same Dino-Soar

boat that was pulling the parasail. Eric hasnt seen it yet, so

Grant stops him.

Eric nods and heads back to Paul and Amanda. Grant forges on,

approaching the speedboat wreckage. He doesn't know what he'll

find, but he needs to look.

Almost reaching his parents, Eric stops. Looks out over the

ocean, where he sees

TWO LIGHTS.

He doesn't say anything for a moment, trying to make sure

they're real. They are. And they're coming closer.

They look up to see the distant lights, just now making out

full forms...

He SHOUTS with joy. Paul, Amanda and Eric wave their arms,

making as much motion as possible. The helicopters -- big

military choppers -- change direction, heading straight for

them.

Paul and Amanda embrace, then kiss, the moment getting the best

of them

AT THE SPEEDBOAT

Grant looks in, prepared to see anything in the wreckage. But

the cabin is surprisingly intact, just a little blood. There are

three gashes on the driver's seat back. Grant measures their

spacing with his fingers.

Grant looks down to the wet sand around him, finding a trail of

three-toed tracks.

THE FIRST CHOPPER.

flies right overhead. Paul and Amanda are confused, until the

second helicopter starts to land -- the first on is there to

cover them.

Grant YELLS at the first chopper, trying to wave it away. But

the noise of the blades is DEAFENDING.

At the treeline, the upper branches are shaking. At first, it

looks like it's just the wind off the chopper, but

something more is happening.

A PTERANODON

flies up out of the trees, the first of twenty. It's a gorgeous

and terrifying sight.

Terrified, the Costa Rican CHOPPER PILOT veers away, but the

pteranodons are already on him. They SMASH at the windows,

grabbing on the skids, The chopper rolls wildly.

One over-eager pteranodon sticks his head up to high, getting

decapitated by the blade.

As the second chopper touches down on the beach, Eric, Amanda

and Paul load in. Grant is running their way.

Meanwhile, the first copper is losing the battle even as it

climbs higher. The helicopter suddenly tips, falling, SMASHING

into the trees with a massive fireball.

Seeing the explosion, the SECOND CHOPPER PILOT takes off. Eric,

Amanda and Paul are on board, but Grant is still running up.

The helicopter passes right over him.

Seeing a ladder release by the door, Paul throws the lever. A cord-

and-steel-ladder unfurls, dragging across the sand.

Grant chases after us, catching a rung just as it goes over the

water. Behind him, pteranodons are circling the wreckage of

the first chopper and starting to go after the second.

Buffeted by the wind, Grant climbs the ladder up towards the

chopper. A pteranodon flies up right behind him, trying to

bite. It catches Grant's shoulder.

Grant spins to the far side of the ladder. The pteranodon goes

to bite him again, but finds it head caught between the rungs.

As it tries to free itself, it just gets more entangled.

The entire ladder starts to lift, caught by the updraft from the

creatures wings.

Up with the pilot, Amanda sees the other pteranodons are headed

back to the island, unable to keep up.

In back, Paul and Eric get the ladder mechanism to begin to

retract. It reels Grant in faster. It also reels in the

pteranodon, which may be caught, but is still plenty dangerous.

As Grant reaches the cabin, they shut off the ladder engine.

The pteranodon is still working its way free, pulling itself closer

and closer.

Everyone checking the cabin for a knife, anything sharp.

Finally, Eric hands Grant the raptor claw.

Grant uses it to rip the line. The fibers break and fray, but

the pteranodon keeps coming closer.

Paul throws a wrench at the pteranodon, WHACKING it straight

in the head. It felt good, and damn if it didn't slow it down a

little.

Grant has cut through the cord. He started on the second when

the pteranodon SNAPS at him, going for his hand. There's

nowhere for Grant to cut without the pteranodon getting him.

And idea, Grant very deliberately places in his hand on the line,

pulling away at the last moment. The pteranodon itself bites

through the line.

The pteranodon falls away from the helicopter, catching wind

just before it hits the water.

It circles and flies back to Isla Sorna.

As horrifying as the creature was a moment ago, it's suddenly

beautiful again. Each motion of its giant wings is a small

symphony.

Sitting between his parents, Eric looks back at the island in

the distance.

ON PAUL AND AMANDA

ON ERIC AND GRANT

looking back at the island.

And Dr. Grant realizes...

