EXT. - NIGHT

It's raining like hell. Flashes of lightning reveal momentary

glimpses of a decayed urban/industrial landscape. Far below

us, a mysterious glistening wet rock lies engulfed in the

drowning earth. We descend toward the rock. Sporadic flashes

of lightning distort our perspective of the stone. It looks

strangely beautiful, like a diamond stuck in the dark mud...

Closer... Closer...

Suddenly, STRONG MALE HANDS cut across the frame and wrench

it free from its muddy grave. Even closer... And we discover

that the underbelly of this beautiful rock is teeming with

every kind of slithering repulsive insect... FLASH!!*

Lightning obliterates the frame.

(* FLASHES OF LIGHT from lightning, car headlights,

photographic strobe units and flashlights are used throughout

the following sequences as recurring transitional devices.)

CITY STREET EXT. NIGHT

We can barely see the darkened street in a run down part of

an inner city -- what we can see looks half demolished.

Flash!!

Through chain link fencing, the blinding headlights of a

70'S CHEVY arc into frame. For an instant we see the fleeting

image of a PRETTY TEENAGE GIRL. On her feet a pair of bright

red high heeled shoes. The Chevy pulls up next to her.

INT. 70'S CHEVY - NIGHT

FLASH!! An oncoming car's headlights streak across the beat

up Chevy's windshield... revealing... THE DRIVER, 45ish, as

he leans across the passenger seat and opens the car door.

The pretty teenage girl slides into the car. Dressed only in

a skirt and T-Shirt, she's soaked to the skin. Make-up runs

down her face and her hair sticks to her bare shoulders. She

seems nervous... scared even.

As she closes the car door the man notices that her hand has

been injured. It's bound with coarse white toweling and

stained with blood. In her other hand, she clings tightly to

a cheap yellow leather purse. He reaches forward and puts

his hand on the gear-shift, the back of his hand brushing

against her leg, she moves away. He slides the gear-shift

into drive.

Another car's headlights flare the windshield as he pulls

out into the night.

INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Suddenly... a powerful photographic strobe light ignites!

Revealing a decrepit warehouse interior. Silhouetted briefly

against the paint chipped walls are two figures: A man, BRIAN

KESSLER, 25, short chopped hair dressed in black on black,

and a woman, CARRIE LAUGHLIN, 25, short black hair and tight

black clothes. Carrie holds a 35mm still camera, an umbilical

cord runs to a strobe light. Brian holds a flashlight in one

hand, a tape recorder in the other. He begins speaking into

the tape recorder.

His flashlight scans the ominous environment. Carrie takes

flash photo.

EXT. CONSTRUCTION SITE - NIGHT

Emerging from the blackness... The same strong male hands

that unearthed the rock now pulls his rain soaked jacket

clear of his torso. A crude bandage wrapped around one of

the fingers. The rock is slipped up under his jacket... up

against his bare chest. The jacket is pulled down to conceal

the rock and the faceless figure drifts away.

INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

The beam of Brian's flashlight sweeps through the darkness,

revealing another room.

The flashlight finds the corner in question. Flash!! The

warehouse lights up again, revealing a huge machine room.

INT. 70'S CHEVY - NIGHT

A male hand wipes the steamy condensation clear of his car's

front window. The windshield wipers swipe incessantly at the

constant sheet of rain beyond.

The driver fidgets blindly with the various levers and knobs.

He finally manages to get the defroster and heater to work.

The girl leans forward into the stream of warm air.

She closes her eyes, lets it blow across her face. He watches

her. His eyes linger on her body.

She pulls her wet hair off her bruised face and gives him a

nervous smile.

He throws a curious look at her, then back to the highway.

INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE - NIGHT

Brian's flashlight moves around the room.

The flashlight continues to search through the darkness.

Another flash!!!!!

INT. 70'S CHEVY

Very close on the girl's yellow purse... as the metal zipper

is pulled open. The driver notices her opening the purse.

The driver watches as she reaches into the purse... out a

soggy pack of matches. She looks at them... I look to the

driver.

He pushes the cigarette lighter in to heat. Out of the corner

of his eye, he sees the girl's hand slip back in her purse.

And stay there. She stares at the car lighter and... waits.

The driver glances at her, then back to the lighter.

INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE

FLASH!! As another strobe light ignites. Tape recorder hand,

Brian continues...

Carrie snaps another shot. Flash!! The blinding flash

illuminates the night rain streaming in through the fractured

remains of the ceiling.

Brian stops talking. Carrie scans the darkness. From the

quiet...

A Thunderous Roar!!

INT. 70'S CHEVY - NIGHT

A Blinding Flash!!

As... a semi-trailer crosses paths with the 70'S CHEVY.

Close on the girl. An intent expression on her face as she

watches and waits... for the cigarette lighter to eject. His

hand reaches deeper into her purse. The Driver tenses as he

sees this. Suddenly...

POP!! The lighter ejects.

The Driver reaches for the dash. The girl hurriedly lifts

something out from inside the bag. The Driver yanks the

lighter out... and whips a look to the girl.

INT. ROOFLESS OLD WAREHOUSE

Brian's flashlight sweeps across the shadowed remains of the

rafters and catwalks. Scanning... Listening... Brian and

Carrie glance tentatively at each other... Then slowly Carrie

lifts the portable strobe unit upward until it is pointing

into the rafters. Carrie fires a shot, triggering a brilliant

Flash!!

Flash! Out of the inky black... The glistening wet rock

emerges, hurtling downwards... Tumbling end over end through

the night rain...

INT. 70'S CHEVY

The girl pulls a pack of cigarettes out of her purse. She

looks curiously to the driver whose hand is trembling

slightly.

The girl reaches out, steadies his trembling hand... and

pulls the red hot coil to the cigarette between her lips.

When... in a THUNDEROUS CRASH!! The glistening wet rock comes

smashing through their windshield!!!!

EXT. FREEWAY - NIGHT

The CHEVY brakes... Skids across the rain-slicked pavement

and turns a somersault, landing upside down on its hood.

ANOTHER ANGLE: CLOSER

The CAMERA DRIFTS ACROSS the fractured front end of the

overturned CHEVY. The twisted hunk of metal hisses...

steams... groans. The front tire spins lazily to a halt on

its mangled axle.

IN THE BACKGROUND - HIGH OVERHEAD

We see a man standing on a highway overpass. He's leaning on

the railing and calmly looking down at the wrecked car.

CLOSER

EARLY GRAYCE, 25, athletic build, big watery eyes, jet black

hair, stands by the railing. Rain streaks down his

expressionless face. He dropped the rock.

EARLY'S POV - THE 70'S CHEVY

Lying in the deserted highway. The Driver crawls out covered

with blood. Still clutched in his hand is the car cigarette

lighter. Its red hot coil extinguishing quickly to a faint

glow.

ANGLE: CLOSER ON EARLY

Calmly looking down with no pity. Even closer... Water running

down his face. Closer yet... On his eye... And right into

the dilated pupil.

As we enter it -- it's like being in a dark winding tunnel

filled with the hum of dynamos and the loud rhythmic pumping

of powerful machinery.

FROM SOMEWHERE IN THE BLACKNESS

The distant echo of a Woman's voice.

INT. APARTMENT - BRIAN'S EAR - LATER THAT NIGHT

Still hearing the whine from some tremendous dynamo, we emerge

from the inside of BRIAN'S RIGHT EARDRUM, pulling back far

enough to see his face.

Brian is distracted, distant, not paying attention to the

game of "Twenty Questions" that he is playing.

NEW ANGLE

A small party in progress. Graduate student types, smoking,

drinking. The usual. Carrie and Brian stand out in this group,

their look is more stylized, their attitude less complacent.

Carrie, in particular, looks restless.

Carrie tunes in and pays attention to the game.

Brian's eyes dart to Carrie. The look on his face tells

everyone she nailed it. Brian gets up to get another drink.

Several people laugh, amazed that Carrie knows Brian so well.

Carl looks over to Carrie. She gives him the finger and a

cheeky smile.

CAROL, sitting next to Carrie, asks...

Carrie watches Brian disappear into another room.

Carrie lights a cigarette. Her frustration is showing.

She gets up and begins weaving her way through the crowded

room. Carol follows.

Carrie and Carol share a strained laugh.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. APARTMENT KITCHEN - FEW MOMENTS LATER

The room's crowded with people. There's a lot of noise --

"shop talk," banter. Clipped conversations overlap, as we

find Brian with his friend Eric. They are in the midst of

making a blender of margaritas.

Eric dumps in a handful of ice cubes as Brian pours in the

booze.

Brian pours in the rest of the bottle.

Eric looks for triple sec in the cupboards. PETER overhears

them on his way to the refrigerator.

He pulls open the refrigerator door and grabs two beers.

Carrie steps up behind Brian.

Brian turns to see Carrie now behind him. She wraps her arms

around his neck.

Peter finds triple sec in the refrigerator.

Eric takes the triple sec from Peter and pours some in the

blender. He turns it on. It whines.

EXT. LUCKY STREET GRILL

A relic from the fifties with large glass windows. The rain

has stopped but the streets are still wet. Early's piece of

shit Grand Prix pulls into the lot. He gets out and walks

into the diner.

INT. DINER - NIGHT

The place is almost empty. Early, still wet from the rain,

walks to the counter and sits down. He calls out to the

kitchen.

The only other customer is an OLD MAN, sitting at the counter

nearby nursing a cup of coffee. His face half hidden under a

rain soaked hat. Early selects a tune from the countertop

juke box.

OLD MAN'S POV

Out of the corner of his eye he sees a bug (from the concrete

block) crawl out of Early's sleeve and onto the counter.

Early gazes at the Old Man curiously, then calls out to the

waitress...

Early notices the small bug crawling across the counter. He

leans closer to it and watches it. After a moment, he THWACKS

it off the counter with his thumb and finger. The bug lands

on the hot iron griddle with a SIZZLE!

EARLY glances at the Old Man again... then scoots over one

stool closer to him. Early seems curious to want to get a

glimpse under the brim of the Old Man's hat.

IN THE BACK KITCHEN AREA

The waitress is bagging Early's order to go... when the front

door slams shut!

FRONT DINING AREA

The waitress re-enters the room. It's empty. Neither the Old

Man nor Early are there. With Early's food in hand, she makes

her way along the rear of the counter toward the front door.

She glances around curiously. On the griddle, the remains of

something black and charred smoulders. Closer to the entrance,

she stares at the front door. The sign that hangs in its

window has been turned... the backside which faces her reads

"OPEN."

AT THE FRONT DOOR

She wonders about the sign for a moment, then stares curiously

out the window... not a soul in sight. She locks the door

and begins closing up for the night. She turns to make her

way to the rear of the diner then notices something. Slowly

she moves along the side wall, past a number of highbacked

booths.

HER POV

Sitting on one of the funky old leather seats in a booth are

a pair of RED HIGH HEELED SHOES (the same pair worn earlier

by the Pretty Teenage Girl). The Waitress glances nervously

about the interior. No one in sight.

AT THE BOOTH

She reaches down slowly and picks up the pair of shoes. Looks

at them closely. Stares at the inside lining. Then suddenly

out of the quiet... a voice.

The Waitress spins a startled look to the booth beyond hers!

Early leans out from behind the highback partition.

The Waitress... smiles, nods shyly.

This is ADELE CORNERS. She's 17, pretty, uneducated and

Early's girlfriend. She steps over to him, gives him a kiss,

then sits down on the seat across from him. She starts to

try on her new shoes.

She passes the bag to Early. He digs in. Between bites, he

glances over to Adele who's enthusiastically pulling on the

new shoes.

INT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S LOFT APARTMENT - LATER THAT NIGHT

A door swings open spilling light into a darkened room. Brian

and Carrie, a little drunk, return home from the party.

Their apartment is in an old converted industrial building

in a funky low rent part of town.

Brian walks ahead, Carrie trails behind him, peeling off her

clothes. She begins unzipping her dress, unnoticed by Brian.

She grabs a leather cap that sits on a chair.

Carrie's dress falls to the floor.

Brian is at the foot of the bed, he turns to see... Carrie

has transformed. She has stripped down to her black bra and

panties, fishnet stockings, a nightporter style leather cap.

A surprised Brian stands there a moment. Looking at Carrie.

She looks great.

OMITTED

Carrie pushes Brian back onto the bed.

OMITTED

Carrie climbs on top of him. She kisses his neck. Slowly

starts working her lips across his chest and down his stomach.

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - MORNING

A solitary trailer sits alongside a run down house.

INT. EARLY'S TRAILER - MORNING

Through the soot tinged atmosphere, sunlight filters in past

the curtained windows. Early is lying face down in bed, his

right arm extended over the side. Adele is in the kitchen

half dressed, and unsuccessfully attempting to iron one of

Early's shirts. She realizes the iron is out of water, she

sets it down and steps to the sink and fills a glass with

water. As she does she glances at a cactus on the counter.

OMITTED

OMITTED

She waters her small cactus (Lucy).

NEW ANGLE - THE REFRIGERATOR

Adele smiles then notices that a photo held to the fridge by

a decorative magnet has fallen to the floor. She picks it

up.

Adele puts it back onto the fridge. It is a photo of a young

Early with his mother. In the photo Early appears to be about

ten or eleven. he stands next to his mother. Her arm is draped

over his shoulders, she is holding a drink. A cigarette butt

dangles between her fingers. Nearby a portable radio is tuned

to music, when the local radio jingle comes on and segues to

the news.

NEW ANGLE ON EARLY

A handkerchief bandana is tied around his head and over his

eyes.

The NEWSCASTER'S voice gets louder.

CLOSER - EARLY'S FACE

Slowly he reaches to his face and lifts the bandana up off

one eye. Even closer on his left eyelid. It flutters... pops

open and blinks. Now... his eyeball stares right at us. The

pitch black pupil contracts in the morning light. The

newscaster's voice continues to amplify...

The newscaster's voice quickly fades away. Early calmly closes

his eyes and drifts back to sleep.

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - LATE MORNING

Early emerges from the trailer drinking a bottle of beer. He

looks around the yard, it's full of various kinds of useless

junk. He walks over to his car. Adele appears in the doorway

of the trailer in her bathrobe.

She glances around to make certain that no one's looking,

then 'flashes' her body to Early with a giggle.

Early smiles. Adele turns back into the trailer then,

remembers...

Early looks at the run down house next door where Diebold

lives. A beat up red pick-up is parked in front.

Early works his jaw, thinking.

Adele nods.

Early gets in his car.

Early revs the raspy engine.

Adele's words are unheard as Early pulls away flinging his

beer bottle at a couple of chained PITBULLS in Diebold's

front yard.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S LOFT - AFTERNOON

Brian enters the darkened loft interior.

Brian turns the corner, he's immediately greeted by a series

of erotic images being projected on the far wall. They are

slides of Carrie's photographic work. In regard to the nature

and content of Carrie's photographic work, her photographs

address the sexual collision of opposites. "What if's." The

subjects of her photographs are hypothetical and highly

unlikely partners. Studies in contract. Moments of passion.

From across the room, he hears Carrie's disembodied voice.

He drifts toward the couch.

Brian finds her slumped down on the couch. He sits down.

She's got a drink in her hand. A bottle on her lap. She

continues to click through the slides. As she rambles on,

it's obvious that she's definitely under the influence of

something 90 proof.

Brian can see she's upset. Drowsy from the booze. He just

watches her. Listens. Her words linger in his head.

The bold graphic sexual photographs of Carrie's continue to

accentuate her comments.

Brian notices an envelope on the floor nearby. He picks it

up. Opens it. Inside, he finds the photographs Carrie took

at the warehouse. Interested, he shuffles through them. He

becomes more and more intrigued with what he sees.

He glances over to Carrie... she's fallen asleep. He reaches

over and quietly pulls the drink glass from her hand.

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - LATE AFTERNOON

Early's Grand Prix has a head of steam up as it tears across

the drive and hangs a hard right into his parking space next

to the trailer. Suddenly, Early hits the brakes hard! Another

car is parked there.

INT. EARLY'S TRAILER

Early spills through the doorway.

Early spots his PAROLE OFFICER standing in the bedroom area

snooping around. He has a prosthetic hand which he uses to

search through Early's things.

The Parole Officer hiccups throughout the scene.

Early notices the man looking through some of his letters

and papers.

The Parole Officer opens one of the closet doors, pilfers

through things inside, as if searching for something. Early

is getting pissed off but says nothing.

He lifts his crudely bandaged middle finger.

Parole Officer steps over to the refrigerator, opens it,

snoops around inside.

He finishes with the refrigerator and continues his search

through the drawers and cabinets of the trailer.

The Parole Officer ignores the question. He steps up to a

sink overflowing with dirty dishes.

Early dismisses the place with a glance.

Early opens the refrigerator, grabs a bottle of beer.

Early sits down at the table. The Parole Officer steps over

to him.

The Parole Officer pulls a slip of paper from his shirt

pocket, sets it on the table.

Early lifts his beer for another drink. The Parole Officer's

prosthetic hand snaps tight around the neck of the beer

bottle, just inches from Early's lips.

With that Early looks up at the man, almost defiantly, then

stands up. The Parole Officer hiccups again. Early stares at

him for a moment.

The Parole Officer shakes his head in disgust and walks out

of the trailer to his car.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

BRIAN'S DESK IN ANOTHER PART OF LOFT APARTMENT - NIGHT

Brian's in the midst of working his way through pages and

pages of thesis notes scattered atop his desk. Using

chopsticks he shovels Chinese straight out of the carton as

he studies Carrie's warehouse photographs.

CARRIE'S POV

As we approach Brian from behind, moving closer, closer.

NEW ANGLE - BRIAN'S DESK

Carrie steps up behind him. She's rubbing her eyes, having

just awakened. A hangover beckons. Brian notices her.

Carrie grabs his container of Chinese and takes a few bites.

Listens.

Carrie glances over his shoulder at his writing.

Brian reaches down to the floor and pulls a large map of the

United States up and lays it out on his desk. He traces a

route West. Along the way, specific locations have been

circled.

OMITTED

Carrie steps up to Brian.

Brian looks at the container of Chinese in his hand. Carrie

takes it from him, sets it down on the road map. Kisses him.

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - DAWN

Early exits the trailer and climbs into his Grand Prix.

INT. GRAND PRIX

Early tries to get the engine to tick over. Then... He sees

JOHN DIEBOLD, his landlord, emerge from his house and begin

lumbering toward the Grand Prix. The two panting ugly-ass

pitbulls trot alongside their master.

Early tries the engine again. Still won't start. Diebold,

getting closer. The dogs are barking.

Hurriedly, Early tries the engine one more time. It starts.

Grinning from ear to ear, Early pulls away before Diebold

and his dogs reach him.

Pissed, Diebold grabs a rock and hurls it, hitting Early's

car.

The car stops, dead in its tracks.

INT. GRAND PRIX

Early looks in the rear-view mirror and sees... Diebold

standing there confrontational.

Early throws the gearshift into reverse...

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER

Tires screeching, the car surges toward Diebold and the dogs.

Scared shitless... Diebold begins back peddling. Confused,

the pitbulls bark, then follow suit.

Early laughs as he stalks Diebold.

Diebold jumps out of the way of the Grand Prix just as it

pulverizes his portable barbecue.

Early shifts it into drive and barrels out of the drive.

NEW ANGLE - DIEBOLD

As soon as the Grand Prix is out of sight...

Furious, he turns to find Adele staring at him from the window

of her trailer.

Adele starts laughing, she tries to hide it with her hand.

Muttering to himself, he turns back toward his house. He

then notices what Adele is laughing at. One pitbull is trying

to hump the other.

NEW ANGLE - ADELE

Peering out at him from the trailer window laughing at the

dogs.

EXT. PARKING LOT - UNIVERSITY

Brian pulls up in his BLACK '62 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL. The

suicide doors and leather interior have seen better days.

Brian locks his car and walks into the building.

INT. LOBBY OF THE ADMINISTRATION BUILDING - AFTERNOON

Brian steps up to a large bulletin board. He sees several

'Ride-Share' notes to various cities on the board. He pins a

Ride-Share note onto the board. We see the note is headlined

in red - "CALIFORNIA"

Brian glances over his shoulder.

Carol peers over Brian's shoulder and reads the note.

Brian smiles at her and walks away.

She shakes her head.

Carol turns to see Early.

She walks away. Early's eye catches the bulletin board, he

sees in bold red marker - "CALIFORNIA."

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - LATE THAT NIGHT

Adele steps out of the trailer.

She walks carefully around the junk piles. It's dark; hard

to see. She comes to the edge of a deep dark hole and peers

in... She can't see anything but hears the rustling of a

shovel digging.

The sound of digging stops.

After a moment's hesitation, Early resumes his digging.

The digging stops again.

The moonlight illuminates his face when he looks up at her.

Early lets out a playful howl, as Adele looks up over her

shoulder at the moon.

Adele smiles and begins walking back to the trailer.

After a moment, Early climbs out of the hole and stands in

the moonlight for a moment. We see that he's completely naked

except for a pair of high top steel toed work boots. Early

gazes up into the night sky, looking at the cold white moon.

EXT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S LOFT - DAWN

Brian exits loft carrying two bags. Carrie is also carrying

a bag, and smoking a cigarette, as they walk to the car.

OMITTED

Brian throws the bags in the open trunk with the other bags.

Carrie bows her head and folds her hands in mock prayer.

Brian throws a needling glance to Carrie and slams the car

hood shut. They both get into the car, Brian behind the wheel.

INT. LINCOLN

Brian starts the car. It backfires loudly startling Carrie.

Brian laughs.

EXT. LINCOLN ON STREET

The engine revs again and the Lincoln pulls away down the

street.

EXT. BUS STATION - DAWN

PAN UP from Adele's new red high-heeled shoes. We hear Adele

speaking with an unfamiliar tone of authority to her voice.

The camera slowly reveals Adele... and the fact that she is

alone as she voices her concerns. Then from behind her Early

approaches. Just in time to hear...

Startled, Adele drops her shoulder bag. It lands on top of a

couple of cardboard boxes and a beat up old duffle bag --

all their possessions. A few personal items spill out of it.

She kneels down to pick things up.

EARLY'S POV

As Adele picks up her spilled personal possessions, Early

notices her prized cactus in the bag.

He angrily reaches in and grabs it.

She reaches for the cactus but misses.

Adele bites her lip almost crying. Suddenly, Early looks

past Adele to see something, Adele turns too.

NEW ANGLE

The Lincoln comes gliding into view.

INT. LINCOLN - PULLS INTO BUS STATION - DAWN

Through the windshield we see Early... Adele by his side.

Brian honks the horn, Early waves back.

ON EARLY AND ADELE

EXT. BUS STATION

Brian stops the Lincoln and gets out. He approaches Early

and shakes his hand, then Adele's.

An awkward moment as everyone just stands there... until

Brian reaches for Adele's bag.

Brian picks up her bag and carries it to the Lincoln. Adele

is instantly won over by the gesture -- Early leery of it.

INT. LINCOLN

Carrie watches as Brian and Early carry their things to the

trunk. Carrie leans forward and sets the trip odometer to

zero. When she sits back up, Adele is standing at her window.

She turns away from the window...

Carrie turns back, rolls down window...

She turns and sees Early reflected in the side mirror watching

her. He grins at her, Carrie looks away.

NEW ANGLE: FROM INSIDE THE TRUNK OF THE LINCOLN

Brian crams the last of the bags in, as Early watches.

Brian looks to him, Early grins and winks. Brian slams the

Lincoln trunk lid shut.

SCREEN TO BLACK

EXT. EARLY'S BURNING TRAILER - DAWN

From the blackness... The camera rises from a pile of rubble.

As it ascends we reveal Diebold's pitbulls howling and digging

at a mound of fresh earth where Early's hole used to be.

The crackling flames of a nearby fire illuminate the scene.

Deep in the distance, the wail of approaching sirens.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Reveal that it's Early's trailer and car that are on fire.

INT. TRAILER

Flames consume the magazine photos of Elvis and Priscilla,

Farrah and Ryan, Early and Adele. Along with them, the black

and white photo of young Early and his mother.

EXT. BUS STATION - DAWN - OVERHEAD ANGLE

On the Lincoln as it exits the Bus Station. The camera

descends toward a lone trash can, to find there, lying amidst

the debris inside... Adele's cactus.

EXT. CITY STREETS - MORNING

The Lincoln passes through on its way out of town.

INT. MOVING LINCOLN - MORNING

Brian behind the wheel, Carrie riding shotgun. Early and

Adele are sitting in the back seat. An awkward silence

prevails. Brian clears his throat.

Brian raises his eyebrow a tad, but is not really curious

about it.

A glance passes between Brian and Carrie. Is she for real?

CARRIE'S POV - IN VANITY MIRROR

Early motions Adele not to talk so much.

NEW ANGLE

Adele and early show no sign of understanding the word.

Carrie glances at the odometer on the dash... THE FIRST MILE

clicks over.

EXT. LINCOLN - OUTSKIRTS OF THE CITY

Everyone takes a last look at the familiar countryside. Carrie

is snapping photos of the twisting concrete overpasses and

the gloomy grey sky beyond.

INT. LINCOLN

Adele watches Carrie, intrigued by the obvious skill Carrie

shows with the camera. Brian glances into the rear-view mirror

at Adele.

ON ADELE'S REFLECTION IN MIRROR... then Early leans in front

of her.

Adele leans against Carrie's front seat.

Early pulls Adele back toward the back seat.

EXT. LINCOLN

Lincoln drives off down the highway.

EXT. EARLY'S TRAILER - LATER

Police and Firemen sift through the smoking ruins of Early's

trailer. The Parole Officer pulls up in his car, he gets out

and approaches a Police Officer.

We see the smoldering remains of Early's Grand Prix. In the

background Diebold's pitbulls are being dragged away by a

Dog Wrangler.

From inside Early's hole we hear a voice call out.

Parole Officer and Police Officer turn back toward the

trailer, as people rush to the site.

NEW ANGLE - OVERHEAD

The camera aerials down past those gathering around the

freshly dug hole to... a Laborer standing at the bottom of

the pit. Alongside his shovel, we see that a man's arm has

been unearthed.

LOW ANGLE UP TO THE TOP OF THE HOLE

The Police and Parole Officer join several others standing

there.

The two men look to one another... as others begin to unearth

the body.

EXT. MOVING LINCOLN DRIVING DOWN COUNTRY ROAD

Close up, Diebold's ring on a hand twisting open a bottle

cap. Pull back to reveal that it is Early as he opens a bottle

of Lucky Lager beer and takes a sip. On the back seat between

them sits a brown paper bag. Adele reaches into the bag and

pulls out a cheap pocket camera. Excitedly she rips open the

box and pulls out the camera. She leans over and kisses Early.

Early reaches in the bag and pulls out a small plastic bottle

of mineral water and an orange juice.

Carrie turns around, Early hands her the water. Early leans

forward and hands Brian the orange juice.

Then Early reaches past Brian to the rear-view mirror and

hangs a plastic St. Christopher statue around it.

Adele struggles to understand the camera instructions on the

side of the box. She leans forward and shows Carrie her

camera.

Carrie deliberates her response for a moment, then...

Carrie pulls a roll of film out of her bag and takes Adele's

camera to load.

She pulls a roll of color film out of her camera bag and

quickly snaps it into the camera.

Carrie points the camera at a smiling Adele and snaps the

first picture.

Adele takes the camera.

INT. LINCOLN

Adele focuses her camera at the scenery out the side window

of the car.

ADELE'S POV

Road sign to Pigeon Forge.

EXT. LINCOLN

Adele leans out the side rear window to get a better view.

With that, she plops back down into the back seat.

INT. LINCOLN

EXT. HIGHWAY

As we see the car disappearing into the distance, we can

still hear Adele rambling on.

EXT. LARGE ISOLATED OLD FARM - AFTERNOON

The Lincoln approaches on a dirtroad and passes a mailbox

with the name "BAXTER" on it. The Lincoln turns into the

long driveway.

INT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME

Brian begins talking into a small portable tape recorder.

He glances to Carrie, who fires off several photos of the

fence and yard.

The Lincoln continues slowly down the long drive... Up ahead

through the windshield Brian sees a beautiful old farm house.

EXT. LINCOLN

The Lincoln slows to a halt. Carrie and Brian exit the car

and begin walking toward the house. Early follows. Adele,

uncertain about what's transpiring, trails behind.

Brian and Carrie turn to see... Adele training a camera on

them.

Brian and Carrie look to one another then force a weak smile.

Early jumps in and throws a pair of devil's horns up behind

Brian's unsuspecting head as... the shutter clicks.

Brian and Carrie quickly turn their attention back on the

house.

An unusual bird house and a tricycle sit in the front yard.

To the side of the house are the remains of an old swing

set. Carrie finds an interesting angle on the swing set,

with the house in the background, SNAP! She fires off a shot.

As Carrie frames up another shot, Early crosses in front of

her camera. Realizing he is in Carrie's photo he stops and

poses. Carrie looks to Brian.

Early is surprised that they don't want him in the photograph.

He wanders away from the front of the house. Meanwhile, Adele

photographs the moment.

Just then... A NINE YEAR OLD GIRL comes running from around

the side of the house. She stops dead when she sees all of

them. Carrie snaps a final photo.

The little girl scans all their faces.

The little girl remains silent. Brian rolls a look to Carrie

then back to the little girl.

After an awkward pause, the little girl silently crosses the

yard to the porch and opens the front door.

EXT. REAR OF HOUSE - SAME TIME

Looking into the house through a kitchen window we can see

into the entrance hall and through to the open front door.

Brian waits outside on the porch, as the little girl enters

the house looking for her father. Inside the kitchen, right

next to the window, is a side table with a telephone and a

purse on it.

Suddenly... Early's reflection appears in the window; he has

obviously seen the purse.

AT THE FRONT DOOR

Brian motions for Carrie to join him.

AT THE SWING SET

Adele watches Brian and Carrie for a moment, then loses

interest. She stands on the seat of the swing and begins

swinging.

AT THE REAR OF THE HOUSE

Early tries to push up the kitchen window. It barely lifts

three inches before jamming. Through the room we see the

little girl and her father step to the front door.

EXT. FRONT DOOR

A MIDDLE AGED FARMER with tanned leathery skin. He is not

happy. Brian extends his hand...

The father says nothing and does not respond to the extended

hand. Brian retracts his hand.

AT THE SWING SET

Adele swings higher. Her summer dress ripples in the wind. A

smile on her face.

EXT. KITCHEN WINDOW

Early's entire arm is through the opening. His shoulder

presses against the window pane. But still he can't reach

the purse. So, he grabs the tablecloth and begins pulling it

toward him. The purse slides closer, inch by inch. All the

while, he keeps one eye on the Farmer across the room.

EARLY'S POV (ACROSS THE ROOM) The Farmer's back is turned to

the kitchen as he listens silently to Brian.

AT THE SWING SET

Adele swings even higher. She's lost in the moment. Euphoric.

EXT. FRONT DOOR

Before Brian can finish, the man slams the door in his face.

INT. KITCHEN (ANGLE ON FARMER)

The Farmer turns away from the front door.

IN THE KITCHEN

We see that Early and the purse have gone.

EXT. FRONT DOOR

Brian is surprised. He just stands there a moment. He's not

sure whether to knock again.

EXT. SWING SET

The empty swing sways back and forth.

EXT. LINCOLN

Brian and Carrie walk back to the car.

Brian continues on in a huff until Carrie breaks stride and

stops. She pulls him next to her.

Brian glances back at the house. She interrupts his glance,

kisses him.

They enter the car.

Carrie, surprised at Early's new found philosophical belief.

She looks into her side view mirror... And sees Early smiling

back at her. Carrie looks away...

CARRIE'S POV

Shifts from the mirror to the house in the background... as

the car pulls out of the driveway, the little girl watches

from her porch.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. - LINCOLN PULLS UP TO MOTEL AND PARKS.

INT. MOTEL RESTAURANT - NIGHT

A small roadside diner. A fair number of people inside having

dinner. Adele, Early, Carrie, and Brian are seated at one of

the tables.

AT THEIR TABLE

Carrie watches Early eat with a kind of horrible, rude

fascination. He has no table manners at all. He eats with

his elbows on the table, fork wedged in the fist of his right

hand. All the while, he chews with his mouth open. He's

serious about his "eating."

Early doesn't bother to respond. He keeps eating.

CU ANGLE ON EARLY

With a piece of bread he mops up the gravy on his plate.

ANGLE UNDER THE TABLE

Early's foot itches... He tries to scratch it but it doesn't

do any good.

ANGLE - THE GROUP

As Brian folds up the map. Early takes off his boot, then

his well-worn sock. Carrie's look of disgust grows as Early

brings his foot up onto his lap and scratches it while he

eats. Carrie puts her fork down: dinner is over for her.

OMITTED

OMITTED

Brian looks up, sees Carrie's expression... Then what's

causing it... Early mops up the last bit of food on his plate.

He notices Brian and Carrie staring at him and slowly puts

his foot back down on the floor -- then the sock.

Brian picks up the check to see the total... Starts pulling

his wallet out... Isn't quite sure how to bring up the tab

to Early.

Early winks at Brian, Carrie catches the wink. Early and

Adele get up and head for the door. Adele waves goodnight.

INT. CARRIE AND BRIAN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Close on Carrie, she is reflected in a mirror. Reveal, Carrie

wearing only a T-shirt is at the vanity angrily brushing her

teeth. In the bathroom next to her, a bath is running. In

the adjacent bedroom, Brian is in the bed working on his

notes.

INT. BATHROOM

INT. BEDROOM - SAME TIME

INT. BATHROOM

Carrie pauses in brushing her teeth.

INT. BATHROOM

Carrie finishes brushing her teeth. Secretively she gives

Brian the finger...

Carrie glances at the bath water running in the tub. It's

rusty brown and disgusting. She pulls the plug on the bath

idea.

INT. EARLY AND ADELE'S MOTEL BATHROOM ROOM - SAME TIME

The tap is running at the sink as Early empties the stolen

purse. He adds the last few coins to a small pile of cash.

Early continues to sift through all the items from the purse.

INT. EARLY AND ADELE'S MOTEL ROOM

Adele starts to sing a song.

OMITTED

Early start sing with her... As the song ends.

ON EARLY IN BATHROOM

Early reaches down into the bottom of the purse and pulls

out a pair of glistening stainless steel scissors.

He stares at the scissors curiously, then switches off the

bathroom light.

DARKNESS

Click, a light is turned on. Revealing...

INT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S ROOM - SAME TIME

Brian has turned on the nightstand light. He and Carrie are

lying in bed.

Brian turns the light off. From the blackness...

Brian switches the light back on.

Silence... Brian reaches out for the light... when

Brian decides to leave the light on. He moves closer to

Carrie. He slides up against her backside. He reaches for

her under the sheets. Kisses her neck.

Carrie pushes her body up against his in response.

Brian's mouth moves down along her back. He slips beneath

the sheets. From the expression on her face, she obviously

approves... Yet she can't resist slipping in another remark...

Carrie rolls over on her back. Brian moves on top of her.

Kisses her stomach.

Carrie reaches down and grabs two fists full of Brian's hair.

She pulls him to her. He slides up along her chest, kissing

her. Things heat up. She reaches out, grasps his arms. Pulls

him closer.

Brian bites at her neck. She stops talking. His sweating

shoulder presses against her face. She turns her head to

encourage him.

In the dresser mirror... she sees their shadowy reflections.

Their bodies atangle under the sheets.

Their reflection in the mirror intrigues her. Intoxicates

her. His aggression excites her. She pulls him into her. The

metal bedframe bangs against the motel wall repeatedly as

they make love.

Then slowly, the camera bisects the plaster and lumber divider

and emerges in the next room...

TO FIND

Early leaning quietly against the same wall. Listening to

them. As he does, he uses the scissors to cut through the

crusty bandage on his finger. Then, across the room he notices

Adele in bed asleep... the scissors stop.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. EARLY'S MOTEL ROOM - MORNING

Early exits his motel room, opens a bottle of Lucky Lager

against a soda dispenser, and walks over to the motel diner.

INT. MOTEL DINER

Early enters the diner drinking his morning beer. Adele is

not with him. He spots Brian and Carrie seated opposite one

another in one of the booths. He walks up to their table and

drops down uninvited on the seat next to Carrie.

Early lifts his beer bottle in salute.

The WAITRESS arrives with a menu, offers it to Early.

The Waitress notices Early's bottle of beer.

She gets Early's attention.

The Waitress gives him a curious look and walks away.

Just then, Brian look past Early... A surprised expression

crosses Brian's face. Early turns to see... Adele approaching

the table. Her hair has been crudely chopped to resemble

Carrie's. It looks like shit.

Adele smiles, pleased with Carrie for noticing. She sits

down next to Brian.

Carrie looks to Brian curiously. Adele is distracted by a

small cactus on the window near the table.

Carrie notices Adele's 'new' (stolen) purse... We see the

wheels turning in Carrie's head. How? Where?

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. MOTEL - LATER

Early walks toward the Lincoln. It is parked outside Brian

and Carrie's room. The front door is ajar, he pushes it open.

He sees Carrie's reflection in the bathroom mirror, she's in

her underwear, pulling on her jeans. Early watches her for a

moment. There's no mistaking what's on his mind... as his

eyes scan her body. Carrie pulls on her T-shirt, steps out

of the bathroom and sees Early just outside the door.

INT. MOTEL ROOM - SAME TIME

Carrie turns back to the dresser and gathers up the last few

things. She glances into the dresser mirror looking for

Early's reflection at the door, but he's gone. Relieved, she

turns the corner to grab her bags and finds Early standing

right there! Looking at her. He startles her.

He picks up her bags and walks out of the room. Carrie watches

him, then she steps to the doorway.

CARRIE LOOKS BACK TO EARLY

CARRIE'S POV - EXT. MOTEL

Early places the bags in the Lincoln's trunk. Adele sees

Early carrying Carrie's bag, Adele looks jealous.

EXT. MOTEL

In the foreground Carrie's door closes.

TO BLACK.

EXT. LINCOLN/HIGHWAY - LATER

Lincoln passes through frame.

INT. MOVING LINCOLN - NOON

Brian at wheel, Carrie next to him loading her camera. Early

in the back seat, Adele next to him pulls out some make up

from her bag, we see the little cactus from the motel lobby.

She begins to put on some lipstick. Early reaches into the

frontseat and grabs the manuscript that sits between Brian

and Carrie.

Brian looks to Early in his rear-view mirror.

BANG!!

The front tire blows... the car lurches. Brian reacts, pulling

the Lincoln to the side of the road in a dusty halt.

EXT. LINCOLN/HIGHWAY - NOON

Brian and Early unload the trunk to get to the spare tire.

AT THE RIGHT FRONT TIRE

Brian struggles with the wheel and the jack.

Early takes over. He pulls off his shirt, jacks the car up

and begins replacing the wheel with ease.

Carrie scans the landscape with her camera. She sees Adele

walking around a small roadside graveyard. She is reading

the epitaphs on the headstones. Carrie fires off a few shots.

Then she sees Early, she can't help but notice Early's lean

body. She zooms in on his muscles and prison tattoo. Click!!

Early completes the task. Together he and Brian begin putting

everything back in the trunk.

Suddenly, from behind, Adele jumps onto Early's back,

surprising him. He gives her a "horsey ride" around the

Lincoln.

ON CARRIE

She notices Early's wallet on the ground.

ON EARLY AND ADELE

She's riding him, covering his eyes playfully.

ON CARRIE

She picks up the wallet.

BENEATH THE LINCOLN

Early's feet galloping.

ON CARRIE

She opens the wallet to find two one dollar bills inside.

WITH EARLY AND ADELE

As they come around the side of the car and to a stop in

front of Carrie. She holds up his wallet... watches his eyes.

She hands the wallet back to him. Something between them

goes unspoken.

EXT. A GAS STATION - LATER THAT DAY

The Lincoln pulls in.

INT. LINCOLN

Early nods and Brian looks over to Carrie, making sure she

heard. The four of them get out of the car.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Early starts toward the gas station store. He checks his

wallet, two dollars left. Carrie and Adele lean against the

car. Carrie lights up a cigarette. She watches Early to see

what his next move will be. Brian removes the gas cap and

sticks the gas pump nozzle in. It pumps away.

CLOSE ON THE GAS METER

It starts turning over... $$$$$ Click... Click... Click...

EXT. GAS STATION

(crossing the tarmac)... with Early. His face expressionless.

His mind racing...

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian walks around the Lincoln; checking the tires. Carrie

watches Early intently.

CLOSE ON EARLY

He walks toward the entrance.

HIS POV

Inside the store he sees a video surveillance camera. It

worries him. Distracts him momentarily.

Suddenly from behind him... o.s. A car horn HONKS LOUDLY!

Early turns to see a late model Mercedes behind him. He just

gazes at the driver. Aggravated, the driver leans on the

horn and motions Early out of his way. Early stares at the

man a moment longer, then steps to one side and lets the car

pull past him.

WIDE ON THE GAS STATION

A FAT MAN in his late thirties exits from behind the wheel

of the Mercedes. Early watches him as he takes a money clip

from his pocket and walks toward the entrance to the mini

market.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

The gas meter dial continues to go around. $$$$$ Click...

Click... Click...

NEW ANGLE

The girls leaning against the car. Adele watches Carrie take

a drag on her cigarette.

Her remark gets Carrie's attention.

ON EARLY

He watches the Fat Man inside the office.

EARLY'S POV - EXT./INT. GAS STATION

The Fat Man pays THE ATTENDANT for gas and is handed the

restroom key.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian walks to the front of the Lincoln. He passes Carrie

and Adele...

Carrie takes a quick look to the mini-market. She's lost

sight of Early.

INT./EXT. BATHROOM

The Fat Man turns the key and enters the bathroom. The door

starts to swing shut behind him, but...

TWO FINGERS catch it before it does.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian lifts the hood of the Lincoln... Reaches for the

radiator cap.

INT. BATHROOM

The Fat Man is standing at the urinal. He has a ureterostomy

bag he's emptying, when...

Early's hand hits the blow dryer. A whirring sound fills the

room. The Fat Man turns his head. Early lunges at him from

behind, yanks his head back and rips a switchblade across

his throat!

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND - CU

A BLAST of steam from the radiator startles Brian!

INT. BATHROOM

The Fat Man clutches at his throat. Sees the blood on his

palms. He looks up in shock. Early pounds the man's head

into the wall.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian checking the oil, pulls out the dip stick.

NEW ANGLE: CU

Black oil runs down the metal blade.

INT. BATHROOM

The Fat Man falls to his knees against the urinal. His hand

grasping the lever. The urinal flushes. Water flows. The Fat

Man's blood mixes with it. The urinal overflows. The blood

tinged water spills onto the white tile floor. Early pries

the dead man's fist off the lever.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian slams the Lincoln's hood shut.

INT. BATHROOM

Early struggles to turn the fat corpse over.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian steps up to the gas nozzle and pulls it out of the

car.

INT. BATHROOM

Early reaches in the dead man's pocket and removes his money

clip.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

The gas meter stops turning.

INT. BATHROOM

Early calmly washes his hands in the beat up ceramic sink.

He pulls a comb from his pocket and combs his hair in the

mirror.

EXT. GAS PUMP ISLAND

Brian pulls a squeegee across the front windshield. Water

washes the dirt away.

INT. BATHROOM - EXTREME CU

The bloody water spiralling down the drain hole.

EXT. GAS STATION

Early exits the bathroom... and runs straight into Brian,

about to enter.

Brian glances at the bathroom door. Down below, a thin stream

of the Fat Man's blood begins to trickle out from under the

door... just barely touching the toe of Brian's shoe.

Early puts his arm around Brian and turns him back toward

the car.

AT THE CAR

Adele takes a photo of them, approaching. The attendant steps

up to Carrie.

Carrie points to Early. As Brian and Early approach the car,

Early pulls out the money clip.

Early peels off thirty bucks from the money clip. He sees

Carrie watching him, Early smiles.

Hearing that, Carrie climbs into the back seat. Adele climbs

over the backrest into the frontseat.

She climbs again into the backseat.

EXT. LINCOLN CRUISING

INT. LINCOLN DRIVING DOWN THE ROAD - DAYTIME

Early is driving. Brian riding shotgun, is making some notes

in his manuscript. Adele is teaching a reluctant Carrie to

play a card game called "SNAP."

ON EARLY AND BRIAN

Carrie listens in as she continues to play cards with Adele.

Brian picks up his tape recorder.

Brian hands Early the hand held tape recorder.

Carrie is chilled by the intensity of Early's remark. She

watches him out of the corner of her eye. SMACK! Adele's

hand hits the pile of cards and she wins the game. Startled,

Carrie turns back to Adele.

Brian puts one leg across the other and goes back to his

notes.

NEW ANGLE: CLOSE UP BRIAN'S SHOE

Revealing... the blood encrusted toe of his shoe.

NEW ANGLE: CU ON EARLY

EARLY'S POV

Up ahead a HONKY TONK BAR with a large sign "POOL TABLES,

BOWLING & MUSIC"

EXT. COUNTRY ROAD

The Lincoln passes by the LARGE SIGN.

EXT. MOTEL - DUSK

A high angle looks down on the modest cluster of rooms below.

The motel sign pulses erratically in foreground. Moths flicker

about the light.

CLOSER

The Lincoln is parked in front of Brian and Carrie's room.

The horn honks. Early is behind the wheel, engine running.

Brian steps out of the motel room.

Carrie appears at the door holding her camera.

She hands Brian the key.

Brian takes the key and walks to the car.

Carrie sees Adele standing outside her door. Brian enters

the Lincoln.

The Lincoln pulls away.

Carrie swings the camera around to Adele, and snaps off a

shot.

Carrie snaps another shot of Adele. Every once in a while

Adele feels like she should be "posing" for the shots that

Carrie's taking of her. So, occasionally, as she carries on

her conversation with Carrie, she does.

CARRIE'S POV THRU CAMERA

CARRIE'S POV THRU CAMERA - AS SHE ZOOMS IN TIGHTER ON ADELE

ON CARRIE

She lowers the camera from her eye and studies Adele.

EXT. BOWLING ALLEY BAR - NIGHT

A nondescript "joint" on the outskirts of town. American

cars. American pickup trucks parked outside. The Lincoln

pulls into foreground and parks. Early gets out of the Lincoln

and looks around.

Brian exits the Lincoln and looks at Early questioning.

Brian looks at him blankly. He can't think of a thing to say

in response. Early walks toward the entrance of the bar.

Brian joins him.

They both laugh and enter the bar.

CARRIE'S MOTEL ROOM - SAME TIME

Adele is sitting in a chair in front of the dresser mirror

drinking a beer. Carrie is cutting her hair. In the mirror

Adele watches Carrie for a moment. She notices the cigarette

dangling from her lips.

Carrie looks in the mirror.

Carrie takes out a fresh cigarette and hands it to Adele.

Together they stare into the mirror with their dangling

cigarettes. Adele drops her cigarette, as she reaches down

for it she notices Carrie's portfolio.

Adele grabs the black leather binder and sets it in her lap.

Carrie continues to cut Adele's hair. Adele opens the binder

and takes a look at the first erotic image and slaps the

cover back down. She's embarrassed.

Carrie watches her in amusement. After a moment, Adele

reconsiders, and opens the book. She gazes at the shocking

photograph.

Carrie resumes cutting Adele's hair. Adele thumbs through

several photographs.

Adele notices Carrie's scowl in the dresser mirror. Carrie

stops cutting.

Carrie starts cutting Adele's hair again.

When Carrie doesn't respond, Adele grabs Carrie's scissor

hand and stops her from continuing. Carrie looks at Adele's

reflection in the dresser mirror.

Carrie is speechless, Adele looks in the mirror at her new

haircut.

INT. BOWLING ALLEY BAR

The patrons are young men and women. Eighteen to thirty. The

River's Edge kids today. Leather. Ludes and Beer. Wasted.

Rowdy.

We follow one of the waitresses through the bar... As she

passes by a pool table one of the players, A LARGE YOUNG

CRACKER, makes a grab at her...

She spins safely out of his reach.

Some guys, close enough to hear her over the noise, laugh at

her put down. She moves on until she reaches...

Brian standing near a small high table. Early's not with

him. She sets four beers down on the table. Brian tries to

talk to her over the music. He leans in close. His mouth to

her ear.

The waitress laughs. Brian smiles and glances around the

room. He notices the Large Young Cracker staring at him.

ACROSS THE ROOM

Early steps out of the bathroom and makes his way back to

Brian.

NEW ANGLE ON BRIAN

He watches the waitress disappear into the crowd, then turns

to find the Large Young Cracker in his face!

The Young Cracker is obviously very drunk.

The Young Cracker doesn't notice Early return from the

bathroom. He moves in next to Brian. Early is relaxed and

nonchalant as he looks over the Young Cracker. He leans closer

to Brian.

With his eyes on Brian, Early grabs a beer. Brian is scared,

and confused, with one ear and one eye on the Young Cracker,

the other on Early.

Early looks at the beer.

Early takes a swig off the beer, grimaces and sprays it out.

It hits the Young Cracker. The Cracker looks down at his

shirt in shock. Early is oblivious.

Brian is frozen, confused, doesn't know who to address. Early

continues to ignore the Young Cracker.

The Young Cracker moves to hit Early. Early swiftly smashes

his beer bottle into the oncoming face. The Young Cracker

doubles over clutching his face in agony. Early kicks him in

the face, sending the Young Cracker to the ground. Early

finishes him off with several more kicks from his heavy work

boots.

Two large tough guys approach Early and Brian. Brian's heart

racing, Early cool as a cucumber. Instead of taking on Early,

they stop, reach down and drag the unconscious man away. The

waitress returns to their table.

She sets down two beers and two shots, doubles.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. CARRIE AND BRIAN'S MOTEL ROOM - NIGHT

Carrie and Adele split the last bottle of beer between them.

They are sitting on the floor and Adele has Carrie's foot in

her lap. She's painting Carrie's toenails bright red. Neither

of them is feeling any pain.

Adele realizes she has said too much, looks at her watch.

Adele hastily weaves her way out the door.

Carrie stares down at her feet. Red toenails. Cottonballs

between the toes.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. THE BOWLING ALLEY BAR

Early and Brian exit the bar. They make their way to the

Lincoln. On the way...

Brian looks at Early, doesn't understand.

Early branches off behind the car.

Early starts to take a leak.

Brian reaches in the back seat and grabs the last Lucky Lager.

He crosses to the other side of the car and hands Early the

beer.

Early stares at the last of the Lucky Lagers.

Early takes the beer.

Early polishes off the rest of the bottle and heaves it into

the woods.

When Early opens his eyes, he sees a concerned look on Brian's

face.

An awkward silence.

Then Early starts laughing. Brian follows suit. They both

climb back in the car. Their forced laughter trails off.

Brian shifts the Lincoln back into gear and segues

awkwardly...

Early stares at Brian. For a moment Brian is unsure what

Early will say, or do? Then Early grins...

Brian brakes their eye contact, looks back out onto the

highway and just drives off.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

INT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S MOTEL ROOM - LATER

The door opens revealing Brian silhouetted in the doorway.

Under the influence of Lucky Lager, he fumbles with the key...

gets inside and noisily shuts the door behind him. Carrie

remains stonily silent, in the dark.

A few seconds pass.

Carrie, in bed, switches on the side table light. Reveals

Brian leaning on the wall trying to get his shoes off without

falling over.

Brian points to the empty beer bottles on the table.

Brian throws his shoes somewhere and heads toward the

bathroom.

BATHROOM

Brian turns on the light. Takes a piss. A long one.

Suddenly, from right behind him:

Startled, Brian turns to see Carrie.

No response from Brian. Carrie walks away.

LIVING ROOM

Carrie steps over to the bed, pulls the sheets back. Brian

leans out the bathroom door:

Brian smacks himself on the forehead (a sarcastic "how stupid

of me!") He pulls his shirt off over his head, and admits...

He switches off the bathroom light, steps out of the doorway,

and begins to pull his jeans off. Carrie climbs into bed.

Brian tosses his jeans and moves toward the bed. Carrie

switches off the the only light in the room. In the dark, we

hear a thud as Brian trips over a chair.

EXT. BRIAN AND CARRIE'S MOTEL ROOM - A MOMENT LATER

Carrie leaves the motel room, ice bucket in hand.

EXT. MOTEL CORRIDOR

At the far end of a narrow hallway, Carrie finds an ice

machine rumbling away noisily. The only illumination, a single

fluorescent light bulb, hangs suspended above it.

AT THE ICE MACHINE

With her arm buried inside the ice machine, Carrie scavenges

for what little ice there is... when, out of the corner of

her eye, she notices...

SOMEONE standing at the other end of the corridor. The

silhouette of a man.

Carrie stops. Her eyes scan the claustrophobic hallway for

another way out. There is none.

She tries to ignore the situation. Grabs another handful of

ice cubes. The man approaches. Carrie stops again. Her mind

races. The man's face slowly becomes visible as he nears the

fluorescent light. It's Early.

Early reaches past her into the ice machine and grabs a

solitary cube. He puts it in his mouth, sucks on it. His

torso is drenched in sweat. He catches Carrie staring at

him.

Early spits the ice cube back into his hand. He presses it

against the back of his neck.

Carrie follows a bead of ice water as it slides down between

his shoulder blades and along his back.

He snaps a look back to Carrie and finds her looking at his

ass. She diverts her glance.

Carrie shakes her head no. Early looks in his hand to see

that his ice cube has melted.

Carrie tries to slip past him. He reaches back into the

machine, momentarily blocking her exit. He grabs another ice

cube. His face only inches from hers.

He pops the ice cube in his mouth and lets her pass.

No response, Early chews up the ice cube.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. LINCOLN LEAVING THE MOTEL - NEXT MORNING

The car crawls out of the parking lot.

INT. LINCOLN

Carrie is driving. Brian is contending with a major hangover.

There is still a silent tension between Brian and Carrie

from the argument the night before. Early is in the back

with Adele. Brian moves his head and moans.

From the front seat, Brian's hand springs up in a desperate

plea for an end to Adele's colorful description.

Brian rolls down his window for some fresh air, as the car

pulls away.

EXT. LINCOLN ON HIGHWAY - MOMENTS LATER

THE CAR IS HEADING DOWN A COUNTRY ROAD.

INT. LINCOLN

Carrie glances over at Brian, who is now asleep next to her.

She looks up into her rear-view mirror...

CARRIE'S POV: IN THE MIRROR

Early is asleep, leaning against the door. Adele is rummaging

through a large canvas bag on the seat next to her.

Suddenly... The wail of an approaching ambulance gets Carrie's

attention. It roars by. Carrie glances in the mirror again.

The next instant, unexpectedly...

EXT. LINCOLN

She furiously pulls the car off the road to an abrupt halt.

INT. LINCOLN

Brian's heads bangs against the side window.

Carrie nods toward the back seat. Brian turns and sees Adele

looking back at them questioningly. Beside her, Early rustles.

Brian notices that Adele's rummaging has revealed an automatic

pistol in the open canvas bag. Brian stares at it. Early's

eyes open.

EXT. PARKED LINCOLN - LATER

A deserted plain. It's very quiet here. Until the silence is

broken by the sound of gunshots. Reveal Early teaching Brian

how to shoot. A row of tin cans are set up on a rusty old

car. It's obvious that Brian's enthralled with the idea of

shooting the gun. Even if he isn't hitting anything.

Brian fires off another shot, misses again.

Nearby stands an unhappy Carrie. Adele pulls her yoyo out of

her pocket.

Carrie doesn't respond. Adele offers the yoyo to Carrie.

Carrie shakes her head no. Adele withdraws her offer.

Again Carrie declines. Her steely gaze returns to Brian.

ON EARLY AND BRIAN

Early helps Brian to hold the gun.

BANG!! The can flies off the tree stump. Brian turns to Carrie

to see her reaction... but she's already on her way back to

the car, and she's furious. Concerned, Brian starts to follow

after her... But Early grabs his attention.

Brian gazes at the gun resting in the palm of his hand.

EXT. AN EMPTY HIGHWAY - DAY

The Lincoln rolling along.

INT. LINCOLN

Brian is driving. Carrie keeps to herself. In her side mirror

she catches a glimpse of Early curled up in Adele's lap. She

watches a moment longer... and realizes that they are making

out. Beginning to kiss and touch one another.

EXT. HIGHWAY NEAR ABATTOIR - LATE AFTERNOON

The Lincoln turns off the main highway onto a dirt road. In

the distance, we see a large rundown building.

INT. AN OLD DESERTED ABATTOIR - AFTERNOON

The Lincoln pulls up to the ramshackle structure. Brian

glances to the back seat to make a remark to Early and Adele

and sees that they are amorously engaged.

Brian and Carrie start to gather their stuff. Carrie opens

the glove compartment, inside are boxes of film... and the

.45 automatic. She takes a few packs of film, and closes the

glove compartment.

Carrie reaches over and takes the keys from the ignition,

locks the glove compartment and pockets the key. Both she

and Brian exit the car. As they start to walk toward the

structure Brian hears a sound, he turns back to see. Adele

leaning forward into the frontseat as the lincoln's big white

top starts to come up.

INT. ABATTOIR

Even in daylight, the interior of the dilapidated old building

is equal parts unnerving, austere, and menacing. The last

rays of sunlight stream through what remains of the windows.

The light falls on a long ominous row of wicked looking meat-

hooks hanging from the ceiling.

Carrie is getting her camera equipment ready. She's quiet

and uncommunicative.

NEW ANGLE

CLOSE, on a small audio cassette player as it comes to rest

on a giant butcher block table in the center of the room.

Brian pops a cassette in the player.

Camera in hand, Carrie begins to move about, despite the

fact that this place repels her.

Brian presses a button on the audio cassette player. The

small tinny speaker plays a bad recording of something we

slowly come to realize is the unmistakable sounds of a woman

being tortured and pleading for her life.

FLASH!! FLASH!!

Carrie fires off a series of shots from different angles.

Brian scans the place trying to imagine what happened. Screams

from the audio tape bounce off the walls.

Brian and Carrie walk through the remains of a doorway into

another room.

The pleas for help and screams on the tape subside to a steady

whimpering.

FLASH!! FLASH!!

Carrie takes a few more shots of the ominous interior. Then

she stops, turns and walks out of the room. She's had enough.

Brian follows after her.

Carrie stops to pick up the rest of her gear.

Carrie wheels around to face him.

She switches off the cassette player.

OMITTED

Carrie storms out of the place. She exits the tunnel, and

makes her way toward...

THE LINCOLN

As she approaches it, through the rear windshield she sees...

Early and Adele fucking wildly!

Carrie wants to turn away, but she can't stop watching them.

Fascinated, she raises the camera to her eye and zooms in on

them.

THROUGH CARRIE'S CAMERA LENS: ON EARLY AND ADELE

Early is sitting against the back seat. Adele is straddling

him. Carrie's finger finds the shutter button.

Early's arms move up under Adele's dress... Her hands press

up against the roof. She's trembling... Wavering... Carrie's

finger presses down on the button, CLICK!!

Then in one swift movement Early sweeps Adele onto the back

seat. Close on Early's face. He's sweating... Lips moving...

Talking dirty to Adele.

Keeping her finger on the button, Carrie rapid fires through

a whole roll of film. She's oblivious to the whine of the

motor drive once all the film is shot out.

Then unexpectedly!! Early looks directly into the camera, at

Carrie. And smiles... And continues to fuck Adele.

A chill rushes through Carrie, she almost drops the camera.

She runs back toward the tunnel... and right into Brian's

arms. He startles her. She pulls away from him.

OMITTED

EXT. DESERT - DUSK

The Lincoln passes through frame. In the background, the

surreal image of an industrial complex bathed in an eerie

artificial light.

INT. LINCOLN PULLS INTO A GAS STATION - TWILIGHT

An electrical storm is in full swing.

EXT. GAS STATION

The Lincoln barely comes to a stop at the pumps before Carrie

storms out of the car and heads toward the gas station

interior. She leaves Brian to break the news to Adele and

Early.

INT. GAS STATION

The only person inside is a YOUNG MALE ATTENDANT. He's

watching TV behind the counter as Carrie enters. On the TV

we see a NEWSMAN. We only catch fragments of what he is saying

because the storm outside is affecting the TV reception.

In fact, each time the lightning flashes occur all of the

electrical power at the station is affected. The fluorescent

lights outside and inside begin to flicker and falter

sporadically.

Static.

Carrie looks at the TV, watches for a moment. It doesn't

hold her attention. She looks away and notices Adele leaving

the car. Adele walks toward a Coke machine at the other end

of the gas station.

Carrie turns back toward him.

He buttons up his rain coat and goes out into the night to

gas up the Lincoln. Carrie pulls a pack of cigarettes from

the carton, nervously lights one up. She looks out the window

toward the Lincoln.

EXT. GAS PUMPS

Through flashes of lightning and thunder she sees Brian in

the car talking to Early. Early listening quietly. Brian

looking adamant yet apologetic. The attendant fills the

Lincoln's tank.

INT. GAS STATION

Simultaneously, as Carrie watches this... Behind her on the

TV screen... A wave of interference scrambles the picture.

Static.

Static.

INT. GAS STATION - ON THE TV

The static clears and the Newscaster appears.

Static.

EXT. GAS PUMPS - TIGHTER ON LINCOLN

Brian's still talking -- using his hands to explain. Early

is watching him with a resigned expression.

INT. GAS STATION - ON THE TV

A video tape image of a familiar gas station recorded by a

surveillance camera.

NEW ANGLE ON CARRIE

She stares at the TV with growing horror as she notices a

familiar black Lincoln in the background. In mid-ground, a

male figure approaches the video camera unknowingly. Slowly,

Early's image becomes visible.

Carrie panics, turns toward the door and runs smack into the

arms of a dripping wet Early Grayce! Early stares at her and

drops his bag to the ground.

Then... Early notices himself on the TV.

Static.

Early grabs Carrie around the neck and yanks her into the

back office. He pushes her down onto a chair.

He searches behind the cash register and finds a sawed-off

shotgun. He shuts the TV off.

The Attendant rushes back in from the pouring rain. Early

points the sawed-off shotgun at him.

Early forces him into the office.

Adele enters the adjacent room. She checks out the various

vending machines in search of candy. Early taps on the window

and motions her into the office. She sees Carrie in the chair,

scared to death, and Early aiming the gun at the Attendant.

Adele looks back at Carrie, then hurries out. Early empties

the cash register.

INT. LINCOLN

Adele opens the door on the driver's side looking scared.

Brian is in the passenger seat. He's looking in the glove

compartment for a map. The .45 automatic Early gave Brian is

clearly visible. Adele stares at it.

Adele gets in and starts looking under the seats.

INT. GAS STATION

The Attendant is reaching up, handing Early the money from

his pockets. Carrie is seated in front of him.

Early rips the phone out of the wall.

The attendant nods yes.

The attendant has no response.

Early takes the Bible off the desk and hands it down to the

Attendant.

The frightened young man lies face down on his stomach

clutching the Bible and starts to pray.

On the counter next to him Early notices a large stuffed

"happy face" display. "Free with every 20 gallon purchase."

He grabs one, stares at its face curiously.

Suddenly... He puts the barrel of the gun between the "happy

face" eyes... Points it at the back of the attendant's head.

Carrie begins to scream. Early pulls the trigger.

The blast explodes the "happy face" and rips into the back

of the Attendant's head, killing him.

INT. LINCOLN - SIMULTANEOUSLY

A thunderous crackle of lightning all but masks the gunshot.

The rain starts pouring down.

Adele stares blankly back.

INT. GAS STATION

The room fills with billowing down stuffing. As the stuffing

floats to the floor it sticks to their hair, skin and

clothes...

INT. LINCOLN

Brian opens the door to leave.

EXT. GAS STATION

Early drags Carrie out of the office toward the car. Brian

sees them running toward the car. They spill into the back

seat. Brian sees Carrie is upset.

From the back seat Early wipes some more feathers from his

face, then points the Attendant's gun at Brian's head.

Adele starts the car. She pulls out of the station and into

the rainstorm.

INT. GAS STATION

The last of the feathers fall like snow. The whole room is

now white except for a red stain around the head of the dead

Attendant.

INT. LINCOLN - A MOMENT LATER

The car moves down the highway. Early in the back seat is

still trying to brush away feathers.

Brian reaches in the glove compartment. He removes the gun

and hands it to Early.

Carrie sits in the corner of the back seat, covered in

feathers but not even noticing them.

Adele turns to the back of the car to face Carrie.

The Lincoln swerves off onto the side of the road. Adele

looks to the front again and steers it back onto the highway.

Early picks some more feathers off himself.

NEW ANGLE - EXTREME CU

The St. Christopher statue swings from the rear-view mirror.

The windshield wipers sweep back and forth against the pouring

rain.

EXT. AN ISOLATED ABANDONED STORE - NEXT MORNING

The Lincoln pulls up at the rear of the store. Adele exits

carrying a couple of bags of Chinese take-out food.

INT. ABANDONED STORE

Adele enters the decrepit store. The others are inside. Brian

and Carrie are tied up. Brian watches Early intently as he

takes one of the bags from Adele. He begins opening one of

the carry out containers.

Early opens another container. Stares curiously at the

contents.

Early sets the container down.

Adele somewhat reluctantly hands Early a bottle of beer from

a second bag.

Early notices that Brian is watching him intently. He mistakes

Brian's interest for hunger.

Carrie doesn't respond at all. Adele unties Brian.

Early pulls out his gun, puts it on the table next to him.

Brian sits across from Early. He watches as Early rummages

impatiently through the carry out paraphernalia.

Frustrated, Early finally takes a gulp of Chinese food right

out of the container. It goes down rough.

Brian picks up a pair of chopsticks, then reconsiders, puts

them back down and, like Early, gulps from the container.

NEARBY, Carrie sits quietly. As she listens to the two men

talk... she notices something on her arm. She lifts her arm

up to get a closer look.

HER POV

She sees that a few of the white down feathers still cling

to her. Closer... and she sees that one of the tiny feathers

is tinged with blood. The Gas Station Attendant's. It freaks

her.

ON BRIAN AND EARLY

Early stops... thinks for a moment.

ON CARRIE

She tries to brush the bloodied feather away... but with her

hands bound, she can't reach it.

ON BRIAN AND EARLY

Brian shakes his head.

ON CARRIE

In quiet desperation, she raises her arm to her lips... and

blows the solitary blood tinged reminder away.

ON BRIAN AND EARLY

Early stares at Brian.

ON ADELE

Adele watches the tiny down feather drift to the floor.

ON BRIAN AND EARLY

Early picks up a different container and gulps some down.

After a moment...

Brian shakes his head no.

Brian stops eating and looks at Early.

Early leans closer to him.

Eye to eye, the two men stare at one another. Brian has no

answer.

Early goes back to gulping down his dinner. This time he

gets a spicy one.

Brian gazes at the cluster of Chinese carry-out food

containers. An ironic reminder of an earlier conversation.

He lets out a weak ironic laugh.

EXT. LINCOLN - TRAVELING - DAY

INT. LINCOLN DRIVING DOWN BACKROADS - DAY

Early is behind the wheel, not a care in the world. Adele

sits beside him playing with her camera. She turns and aims

the camera at Brian and Carrie in the back seat, their hands

are bound.

Neither makes any attempt at smiling. Adele snaps their photo

anyway. In the front seat, she sits quietly for a moment

then leans over to Early and whispers something to him.

Adele sits back quietly. Carrie wants to speak but doesn't.

NEW ANGLE

Carrie silently fuming in the back seat. Brian stares at the

rope that binds his wrists.

EXT. OLD DESERTED MINE AREA - LATER THAT DAY

The Lincoln drives down the dirt access road and stops. They

all get out, Early unties Brian and Carrie.

Early looks down the hill to the old mine building.

Carrie's steely gaze answers Early's question.

Early leans into the car and picks up Adele's camera.

Pistol in hand, Early follows Brian down the hill. Adele

begins nervously playing with her yoyo.

Carrie watches as Brian and Early disappear around a bend in

the dirt road. Out of the corner of her eye, she hones in on

Adele's yoyo.

Adele becomes increasingly intense about manipulating the

yoyo, controlling it. Until she's lost in it. A momentary

refuge.

NEW ANGLE - EXTREME CU

A huge excruciatingly tight shot of the yoyo in slow motion.

Its string unraveling as it spins downward. Carrie pulls her

gaze away.

CARRIE'S POV

The desolate surrounding landscape, a bright blue sky, the

scrubbrush. And no one who can help them. Carrie turns and

looks over her shoulder down the hill.

EXT. OLD MINE BUILDING

The old mine building, rusted and deserted since the late

'20's.

Flash! -- Early takes a photo with the Instamatic.

Early scans the grounds.

Reluctantly Brian leads Early toward the old mine building.

At the opening, Early hesitates.

Brian stops in his tracks.

EXT. LINCOLN - TIGHT CLOSE UP

Adele's yoyo skitters across the gravel road surface.

EXT. OLD MINE BUILDING

Brian turns back to Early.

EXT. LINCOLN - TIGHT CLOSE UP

Then in a snap!... the yoyo recoils into Adele's palm.

CARRIE'S POV

A distant empty ribbon of road.

ON CARRIE

Her eyes searching for anyone who could help.

INT. OLD MINE BUILDING

Brian and Early are silhouetted against the dying sky. Flash!!

Early takes another photo.

Flash!! Early takes a flash photo of Brian, momentarily

blinding him.

Early moves slowly toward Brian.

Brian's eyes dart nervously to the gun dangling in Early's

palm. Flash!

EXT. LINCOLN - TIGHT CU

In slow motion Adele's hands manipulate the yoyo and string.

INT. OLD MINE BUILDING

Flash! Brian flinches. Early remains silent as he closes in

on Brian.

Early's boot lands toe to toe with Brian's shoe.

Eye to eye, the two men stand there.

EXT. LINCOLN

Carrie walks over to Adele at the car. Adele doesn't miss a

beat with her yoyo.

Adele screws up the trick. She pulls the yoyo off her finger

and throws it in the back seat. She leans into the front

seat and cranks the radio up to the max. Closing her eyes,

she begins moving to the music, and tries to ignore Carrie.

NEW ANGLE

A POLICE CAR pulls into frame, unnoticed by Carrie and Adele

in the background.

INT. POLICE CAR

The Male Officer exits, unlocking his holster. The Female

Officer picks up the police radio and calls in the license

plate number.

EXT. LINCOLN NEAR MINE AREA

The radio is blaring. Adele continues to dance despite

Carrie's pleas.

With that, Adele stops her dancing and turns away from

Carrie... To see the Male Officer walking toward them.

The Male Officer continues toward them. It looks like he's

talking to them... but his voice is inaudible under the

deafening radio.

NEW ANGLE: FAVORING THE TWO POLICE OFFICERS

The Female Officer sticks her head out of the police car and

yells to her partner. He turns to listen.

As the Male Officer turns back, he sees Adele reach into the

front seat of the Lincoln. The Male Officer draws his revolver

and levels it at Adele.

NEW ANGLE: FAVORING ADELE AND CARRIE

Click! Adele shuts the radio off, total silence. As Adele

leans back out of the car, she turns, facing directly into

the barrel of the Male Officer's gun.

BANG! A single gunshot rings out! The Male Officer jerks

back and falls to the ground. Adele screams! Carrie whips a

panicked glance around and sees... Early running toward them.

Brian, bewildered, follows behind.

BRIAN'S POV (RUNNING)

Ahead of him, he watches Early race past the wounded Male

Officer. He kicks the Officer's revolver out of reach and

rushes toward the police car.

Early fires his gun repeatedly as he charges the car!

The Female Officer pulls her gun and starts to get out of

the car, when... a shot shatters the windshield hitting her

in the chest. She collapses back onto the seat.

ON BRIAN

He stops at the sight of the wounded Male Officer. Shocked,

he watches the man writhing in pain. His hands clutching his

crotch. His blood oozes into the dirt.

Early approaches the police car. He sees the dead cop and

hears the radio dispatcher.

Brian is not sure what to do. He looks around... sees the

Officer's handgun lying in the dirt. He takes a step toward

it, when... another gunshot rings out! Brian stops. Looks to

the police car. He sees Early standing there, smoke belching

from the dashboard... the police radio is dead.

Early walks back toward Brian and the others. He steps over

to the injured Male Officer on the ground.

Early picks up the wounded cop's gun. He hands it to Brian

as he trains the .45 automatic at Brian's chest.

Brian looks to Early in disbelief.

OMITTED

Early cocks the pistol and pushes the barrel to Brian's head.

Brian looks down at the wounded cop who is writhing in pain.

Brian won't do it. He drops the gun to the ground.

Early cocks his pistol.

Early stares at the wounded cop's face.

Early shoots the cop again. The cop lays still.

Early reaches down and takes the dead cop's handcuffs. He

casually points the little camera at the dead cop. Flash!!

EXT. LINCOLN - ON BACKROADS - LATER

The Lincoln hurtles down the road.

INT. LINCOLN

Early driving. Adele in the passenger seat looks bewildered.

Carrie and Brian in back, handcuffed, eyes hollow with

exhaustion and fear. Then out of the quiet...

Adele looks across the seat to Early. Her face drained of

all expression.

Adele at a loss. Finally... confused...

She shrinks away from him.

Early looks into the rear-view mirror. Brian tries to defuse

the situation.

EXT. LINCOLN ON DESERTED HIGHWAY - SUNSET

The Lincoln drives along an old deserted highway passing

occasional gas stations and dilapidated motels.

INT. LINCOLN ON DESERTED HIGHWAY - SUNSET

Early is driving. He notices something in the distance.

EARLY'S POV - NIGHT

Off in the distance... an oasis of greenery.

OMITTED

Sequence omitted from original script.

EXT. THE MUSGRAVE HOUSE - ARIZONA/UTAH BORDER - DUSK

A home in a secluded valley near the desert. It has a cactus

garden. The garden is illuminated so it can be enjoyed at

night.

Reveal... the Lincoln parked by the front door.

EXT. LINCOLN - CLOSER

Adele gazes out the passenger-side window. She's enthralled

by the sight of all the cacti.

Reveal Brian handcuffed to the steering wheel beside her. He

cranes his neck to see out the rear window...

BRIAN'S POV

Early steps up to the front door of the house and rings the

bell. Carrie stands beside him. A light comes on inside. The

door slides open a crack and MRS. MUSGRAVE, an attractive

older woman with silver hair, peers out with a puzzled look.

INT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME

Adele rambles on.

BRIAN'S POV

Of Early and Carrie as they are let into the house.

INT. LINCOLN

Adele is still rambling on about her interest in cacti.

Adele drifts back to the cacti.

INT. MUSGRAVE LIVING ROOM - A LITTLE LATER

CLOSE ON A PORCELAIN CACTUS

One of many we now reveal to be atop a fireplace mantle.

Adele leans in against the mantle and scrutinizes the cactus.

Carrie and Brian sit on the floor, back to back, their arms

bound around the leg of a piano by a pair of police handcuffs.

Mrs. Musgrave is standing nearby. She's overwhelmed. Numb.

She pours herself a glass of bourbon.

She takes her drink and sits down on the couch nearby. Adele

drops down quietly on the chair next to her.

Mrs. Musgrave downs most of her drink with the first try.

Distressed, her head slumps down.

Early, his pistol wedged in his belt, appears from the kitchen

eating a sandwich. Between bites... He walks over and rips

the phone out of the wall unit. He glimpses Mrs. Musgrave.

Early notices the glass of bourbon in her trembling hands.

He steps over to her and takes the glass away.

He sets the glass down next to a recent picture of Mrs.

Musgrave and an ELDERLY MAN with silver hair.

Early looks at her, he doesn't believe her.

EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE - NIGHT

Everything is quiet beneath the star studded sky. The same

elderly man pictured with Mrs. Musgrave is studying the sky

through a powerful telescope. MR. MUSGRAVE is an amateur

astronomer. o.s. the SOUND of a door opening. Then footsteps.

INT. STUDY - GLASS DISPLAY CASE

Early leans into frame, staring at the display case.

EARLY'S POV

Inside of it is a four foot long replica of the first ATOMIC

BOMB, "Fat Boy." Faded newspaper articles on the wall indicate

Mr. Musgrave had something to do with the bomb's initial

construction. An old photo on the bookshelf shows a much

younger Mr. Musgrave in a '50's kitchen. He is laughing and

embracing a '50's style female mannequin.

Early's eyes drift over to a set of golf clubs that sit in

the corner of the room.

MR MUSGRAVE'S POV - THROUGH TELESCOPE

The planet Saturn and its glorious rings.

OMITTED

THWACK!! The planet turns into a blur of light... then

blackness.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME - ON BRIAN AND CARRIE

Brian and Carrie are still cuffed to the piano, in the

background we see Mrs. Musgrave and Adele looking out the

window into the backyard.

EXT. HOUSE - LATER

Early is leaning on a golf club looking through the telescope.

He pulls his eye away as Adele arrives.

Suddenly, o.s., a scream pierces the moment!

Early and Adele turn toward the doorway to see Mrs. Musgrave

screaming. The older woman's eyes staring past Adele to the

floor nearby. Adele follows the terrified woman's gaze to

find... Mr. Musgrave's body lying on the floor. A bloodied

wound in the back of his head. All of Adele's enthusiasm

drains from her face.

Mrs. Musgrave collapses to the floor.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SHORT WHILE LATER

Brian and Carrie are still cuffed to the piano. Across from

them, Early sits in an overstuffed chair looking through

Carrie's collection of erotic photography.

He looks at another photograph. Confused, he turns it upside

down, stares at it.

INT. THE DEN - SAME TIME

Mrs. Musgrave is laid out on the couch. Adele, deep in

thought, watches over the older woman. Finally Adele reaches

into her purse, pulls out her small potted cactus then walks

across the room to a table. Its top is covered with small

potted cacti. She gently places hers among them.

ON MRS. MUSGRAVE

Mrs. Musgrave begins to regain consciousness. Her eyes open

to find... Adele standing over her. Adele brings her finger

to her lips -- Shhhh.

INT. LIVING ROOM

Early looks through several more photos. He stops on one of

a nude woman's torso. Early looks at it for a moment... then

extends the photo out toward Carrie, comparing it to her.

Carrie doesn't answer him. Then, in the background directly

behind Early... Adele and Mrs. Musgrave quietly appear. Carrie

notices them as they start to cross the hallway to the

kitchen. Early sees Carrie's eyes glance past him. He turns

to see why... when...

Early stops. Looks back to Carrie. Brian also turns to her

curiously.

Early looks at the photo again. Adele and Mrs. Musgrave now

cross safely to the kitchen. Carrie eyes meet Early's. He

smiles, pulls the nude photo of her close to his face... and

licks it.

INT. KITCHEN - SAME TIME

Adele quietly opens the back door.

Mrs. Musgrave is confused, is it a trick? She looks into

Adele's eyes... and knows it's not. The old lady turns and

walks out into the dark desert. Adele stands at the open

door, watching Mrs Musgrave escape.

INT. LIVING ROOM - A MOMENT LATER

Early finishes looking through the photographs. He closes

the cover of the portfolio.

INT. KITCHEN

Early enters, and sees Adele standing at the back door. Adele

turns to face him. Early looks past her into the night and

realizes what she's done. He strides across the room pulling

the pistol from his waistband.

AT THE KITCHEN DOOR

Early pushes Adele out of the way.

EARLY POV - EXT. CACTUS GARDEN

Aside from the occasional pools of light illuminating the

cacti, it's very dark. There's no sign of Mrs. Musgrave.

INT. KITCHEN

He steps outside and starts firing his gun into the

blackness... bullets THUNK into the cacti.

Desperate, Adele grabs a large potted cactus. She rushes

toward Early. Swinging the cactus like an unwieldy bat, she

pummels the side of his head. He stumbles forward,

disappearing into the darkness. Adele stands outside the

kitchen door, bewildered. Then...

Early re-emerges from the shadows. Adele's eyes widen when

she sees him. His cheek has long bloody gashes where the

cactus ripped the flesh.

Adele starts to cry.

A look comes over Early's face that we've never seen before.

That he's never felt before. Hurt. He doesn't know how to

deal with it. And he definitely doesn't like it.

INT. LIVING ROOM - SAME TIME (INTERCUT WITH PREVIOUS SCENE)

Carrie glues her eyes to the kitchen doorway. Brian presses

his back up under the belly of the piano and using all his

strength manages to lift the piano an inch off the floor.

Carrie slides her cuffs out from under the leg.

Carrie's eyes dart back toward the kitchen. Then she notices

a chair nearby.

Carrie grabs the chair. As Brian lifts the piano, she pushes

the chair beneath the underside of it. It holds the piano

suspended an inch off the floor. Brian drops to the floor

and slips the cuffs free.

When... a solitary gunshot rings out from the cactus garden.

A moment later, Early steps quietly into the room. He's

pulling the last few cactus needles from his face. He sees

Brian and Carrie standing.

A shocked silence. Brian and Carrie look to one another.

Carrie moves toward the kitchen but Early stops her! Brian

rushes at him. Early sticks the .45 automatic in his face!

He starts to squeeze the trigger.

Early stops. He looks to Carrie.

Early deliberates the situation, then eases up off the

trigger... and smiles to Brian.

Then, without warning, he hits Brian over the head with the

butt of the .45 automatic. Brian falls to the floor

unconscious.

OMITTED

EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

As Early finishes tieing one of the replicant bombs, Little

Boy onto the hood. He reaches down and grabs a six pack of

beer on the ground and shoves it in the back seat, then slides

into the driver's seat next to an anxious Carrie. Carrie is

now wearing one of Adele's floral dresses.

Carrie doesn't answer, Early laughs.

INT. LINCOLN

Early looks out over the expanse of the desert. He sees a

dirt fire road.

Carrie doesn't understand what he means. Nonetheless, she

nods her head in agreement.

EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE

The Lincoln heads out, past the cactus garden, into the

darkness.

THE LINCOLN'S HEADLIGHTS REVEAL

Adele's lifeless body on the ground near her beloved cacti.

FADE TO BLACK WITH THE DEPARTING HEADLIGHTS

INT. MUSGRAVE LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Brian is handcuffed on the floor. His eyes open slowly as he

begins to regain consciousness. He senses someone behind

him. He pivots around to see Mrs. Musgrave kneeling down to

help him.

EXT. DESERT - SAME TIME

In the distance, a cloud of dust reveals the Lincoln,

traveling at high speed along the dirt fire road.

INT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME

Early still behind the wheel. Carrie sits up against the

passenger side door. She is tense and guarded. Out the window,

nothing but empty desert.

Carrie quietly responds. She kneels on the front seat and

reaches into the back. She grabs a bottle by its neck, and

pulls it from the six pack of beer. Bottle in hand, she

hesitates a moment...

NEW ANGLE: EARLY'S POV IN THE DRIVING MIRROR

Early watches Carrie.

NEW ANGLE

Carrie reconsiders and sits back in the far corner of the

front seat.

She hands the bottle to him. Early reaches out for the beer,

but instead of taking it, he clasps his hand over hers.

He looks at her and begins to squeeze...

Early squeezes even harder -- Carrie begins to wince with

pain. She waits for the glass bottle to shatter in her hand.

Early hits the brakes. The car screeches to a halt in a cloud

of dust. Early squeezes on her hand even harder and begins

to drag her toward him.

Carrie turns her head away. Early pulls her closer.

He grabs her hair with his other hand... Pulls her head around --

forcing her to look at him. Early has Carrie right up against

him, looking right into her eyes.

She struggles trying to free herself. Early, his face only

inches from hers, smiles...

Carrie struggles even harder, but Early tightens his hold.

Suddenly... Early releases Carrie, taking the beer from her.

Carrie retreats back into the corner of the passenger side.

He gives her a grin, then opens the bottle.

Early takes a gulp of beer.

EXT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME

Early throws the bottle of beer out the window (it ain't

Lucky Lager), slams the Lincoln into "drive" and accelerates

along the dirt road.

INT. MUSGRAVE LIVING ROOM

Brian notices an old pickup truck parked outside.

EXT. MUSGRAVE HOUSE - THE NEXT MOMENT

An anxious Brian hustles into the cab of the pickup truck.

Some tools are in the back. Brian still wears the handcuffs

around his wrists. Mrs. Musgrave stands near the front door.

Brian starts the pickup and drives off.

EXT. DESERT - LATER

The wind has picked up. An old wooden gate blocks the fire

road. On either side, barbed wire as far as the eye can see.

The Lincoln roars into frame and powers through the barrier.

The gate smashes into splintered pieces of wood.

INT. LINCOLN - SAME TIME

Carrie leans against the passenger door. Early's eyes scan

the open desert -- looking for the elusive 'doors.' Carrie

reaches for her pack of cigarettes. Early, without a word,

reaches out and takes the pack from her. He crumples it up

and throws it out the window.

NEW ANGLE

Carrie's eyes go to the instrument panel. The temperature

gauge is in the red.

EXT. DESERT

The pickup truck arrives at a crossroads and skids to a halt.

Brian tries to guess which direction to take. Then he spots

Early's discarded beer bottle up ahead. The truck accelerates

straight ahead, tires spinning.

EXT. DESERT - LATER, THE SUN IS ON THE HORIZON

The winds continue to escalate, blowing harder and harder.

The Lincoln approaches on the fire road. A trail of steam is

streaming out from under the hood, blinding Early's view.

Finally, Early slams on the brakes and skids 180 degrees to

a halt... Steam pours out of the Lincoln's grill. The Lincoln

has had it.

Early is indifferent and looks around. About a hundred yards

away, barely visible through the growing sand storm, an old

1950's style building.

INT. LINCOLN

Early opens the back door. He grabs a box of supplies (some

rope, a kerosene lamp etc.)

Carrie slowly begins to respond. She slides across the front

seat.

NEW ANGLE: CLOSE ON THE INSTRUMENT PANEL

Carrie's hand crosses frame and pulls out a knob on the dash.

EXT. DESERT - LATE AFTERNOON

The sun is starting to set behind a distant mountain range.

In the far distance... The pickup truck, revealed by its

trail of dust, crosses the vast landscape.

EXT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE

Early and Carrie struggle through the growing sand storm.

Carrie throws a last curious glance back to the Lincoln as

they reach the front door.

INT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE

The front door is kicked open. Early enters the room with

Carrie in tow.

CLOSE ON EARLY

He looks around the room... A smile forms on his face.

EARLY'S POV (AS HE EXPLAINS)

A living room fully decorated in '50's furniture. Sand covers

everything... Including...

A FAMILY OF FOUR MANNEQUINS placed around the room: The father

sits in front of the TV... The mother (the same mannequin as

in Mr. Musgrave's old picture) is toppled over a kitchen

counter... The little girl is seated at a table... The little

boy is playing with his toy plane on the floor.

EXT. '50'S HOUSE

Early slams the front door shut.

CAMERA PULLS AWAY - REVEALING

The building is a single story '50's home of extremely cheap

construction. It's in bad condition.

EXT. DESERT - THE SMASHED WOODEN GATE

The last rays of the setting sun reveal the pickup truck

heading toward the smashed remains of the wooden gate. The

pickup truck hurtles through the opening left by the Lincoln.

NEW ANGLE

On a collapsed old wooden sign. It lies on the ground a few

feet away from the gate posts.

"DREAMLAND" - NUCLEAR TEST RANGE DANGER - KEEP OUT

INT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE - NIGHT

Wind and sand blow freely through the remains of the windows.

A solitary kerosene lamp dimly illuminates the living room

area. Its flickering light finds... Early, stripped to the

waist, crouched over the broken TV set. He fidgets with the

knobs. Then the mangled rabbit ears antenna. Carrie sits on

some blankets in the corner next to the couch. She's scared

to death. Her eyes scan the battered room. Debris everywhere.

Amidst all of it, Carrie's erotic photographs have been placed

about the room.

ON EARLY

Still unable to get the TV to work, he smacks it a good one

on the side.

With the smack!... Carrie whips her look back toward Early...

To find he's lost interest in the TV. He turns toward Carrie.

Stares at her for a moment. Then with a hint of a smile, he

begins to move toward her. The time has arrived.

He reaches down, grabs her by the shirt and pulls her to her

feet. Carrie doesn't resist. He's rough with her as he kisses

her on the lips. Carrie pulls her mouth away from his. She

seems confused, unsure of her feelings. Early watches her,

until her eyes come back to his. Then she steps forward

crowding her body against his, as she slips one hand around

his neck and kisses him deep and hard...

Suddenly Early breaks the kiss and backhands Carrie hard

across the face. She lands on the floor several feet away,

the palm of her right hand is bleeding.

Early looks down to his waist to find a large piece of glass

protruding from his side.

He pulls the glass shard out, blood drips down his side and

onto his jeans.

Carrie gets up and races into the back bedroom, frantically

looking for a way out, there is none. On the bed the two

adult mannequins now lie naked. They have been placed,

intertwined in a grotesque sexual position.

Carrie turns and rushes back toward the door. Early intercepts

her and throws a punch to her stomach, which doubles her

over. Then Early sends a second punch to her face, she

stumbles backward, landing onto the bed amongst the

mannequins. Early begins undoing his belt.

A violent gust of wind sends several of the erotic photos

swirling through the air. One of the photos whips across

Early's chest. The wind holds it there momentarily.

Early peels Carrie's photo off him, the blood from his wound

covers the back of it. He slaps it against the nearest wall.

It sticks. He walks toward her.

INT. PICKUP TRUCK - BRIAN'S POV

The high winds have turned into a full fledged sandstorm.

Brian is still driving dangerously fast. The dim lights of

the old pickup illuminate only a short stretch of dirt road

ahead and the swirling sand.

He passes a road sign: 'DEVASTATION DRIVE'

Then... As the pickup truck comes around a corner Suddenly...

directly in front of him -- Headlights!!

Brian reacts... too late!!

The pickup truck ploughs into the vehicle, and tumbles end

over end through the open desert, before finally coming to

an abrupt halt.

INT. '50'S DESERT HOUSE - NIGHT

With each thrust of Early's body, Carrie's badly bruised

face contorts with pain and hatred

FADE IN:

EXT. DESERT

Sand blows in through the smashed windshield of the wrecked

pickup truck. Brian is upside down with his eyes shut. A

trickle of blood runs down his face. Camera booms up a dirt

slope to reveal the Lincoln, beyond it on the hill above

sits the desert house. The glow of the kerosene lamp is

visible through the windows.

EXT. DESERT HOUSE - DAWN

The storm is over... No sand blowing. No wind. No nothing.

COMPLETE SILENCE!!!!

The dawn light reveals the devastated '50's house to be one

of a cluster, set at the end of a 'Doom Town' cul-de-sac.

INT. '50'S HOUSE - SAME TIME

In the darkened bedroom, Early's solitary figure rustles

atop the bed. Slowly, he awakens. His eyes open. Across the

bed, a pair of handcuffs is locked around the bedpost. In

the other cuff is Carrie's motionless hand.

Then, out of the corner of his eye, Early sees something in

one of the nearby rooms. Curious, he stands, shoves the .45

automatic in his waistband and walks toward the hallway.

As he passes through the living room and enters the hallway,

his face contorts with a strange sense of wonderment.

EARLY'S POV

A blinding light is shafting through cracks and broken gaps

around the front door frame... It looks like a magical "door"

shrouded in a wall of light!

ON EARLY

In disbelief he pulls his gaze away from the "door"... and

sees through a window at the opposite end of the house...

the morning sun rising. With that he turns his attention

back to the front door!

He walks toward the doorway of light. He grins as he opens

the "door" and steps through it. The sunlight momentarily

blinding him.

EARLY'S POV

A black shadow hurtles toward him out of the brightness...

Eventually it blocks out all the light until... WHAAMM!!!!

EXT. DOOR

A blow knocks Early back through the doorway. He slams to

the ground, on his back. The gun falls from his jeans and

slides across the floor. A look of joyful amazement over the

blood covered remains of his face, he tries to get up, but

can't.

EARLY'S POV

Brian, silhouetted, steps into the doorway. He holds a shovel

raised, ready to deliver a second, fatal blow... but when he

sees Early incapacitated on the floor, he lowers the shovel

to his side. His handcuffed hands reach down and picks up

Early's gun. He trains it on Early, then walks around him to

enter the house. Brian's eyes slowly adjust to the interior...

EARLY'S POV

From on his back, Early looks out the open "door." He sees

two large shards of glass standing vertical in the sand,

reflecting the sun's rays back toward the house. He realizes

that the glass, placed there by Brian, is what created the

effect of the "door." He starts to laugh.

Brian searches for Carrie.

ON BRIAN

He moves into the back bedroom and finds Carrie. She is

crouched on the floor, handcuffed to the bedframe. He moves

to help her. As he gets closer, he sees her badly bruised

face and realizes what's taken place throughout the night.

Brian stops. The sympathetic expression on his face changes.

With hatred in his eyes, he pivots around, strides out of

the bedroom and moves toward the front of the house to Early.

in the front room Gun in hand, Brian rushes back into the

room. He wields the pistol toward the ground where Early

lay... but Early's not there.

Brian's eyes dart around the room... then suddenly, from

behind him, Early grabs him!

He wrenches Brian's head back and whips his belt buckle knife

toward his throat!

Brian manages to lift his hands to his neck an instant before

the knife tears through his flesh. The knife slices a vicious

wound across the back of Brian's right hand. He drops the

gun to the floor. Brian elbows Early in the ribs and pulls

away from him. He reaches to the ground for the gun, but

Early kicks him in the stomach and sends him crumbling to

his knees.

On all fours, Brian reaches out for the gun, but Early kicks

it across the room.

Another kick to Brian's chest. The wind rushes out of him.

Early unloads a ferocious kick to the side of Brian's face!

His head snaps back, his handcuffed arms buckle and he falls

flat to the ground.

With one last effort, Brian manages to pull himself back up

to his knees. He focuses on the gun ahead of him and tries

to crawl toward it. But Early's foot shoves Brian. He flips

over onto his back, landing in front of the bedroom doorway.

Early moves toward him, knife in hand.

As Early moves toward Brian, unexpectedly from inside the

doorway, the torso of the female child mannequin whips past.

Her hardened molten face slams into Early's bloodied face.

Early stumbles backward.

Brian crawls for the gun and grabs it. From his knees he

turns, steadies the weapon, takes a quick breath... and fires.

Hitting Early square in the chest!

Early falls to the ground on his back. Brian lifts himself

to his feet.

He sees that Carrie has dragged the bedframe to the doorway,

and in her free hand she holds the child mannequin by the

leg.

Gun in hand, Brian steps over to Early. Early's body is still.

Blood oozes from the hole in his chest. On a silver chain

around his neck is the key to Brian and Carrie's handcuffs.

Brian reaches down and grabs the keys... when suddenly Early's

arm springs up from his side. His hand grabs Brian's shirt

collar. Brian is startled by the move, then realizes that

Early's hold is weak. His fingers tremble. Finally his arm

drops back down to his side.

The two men stare at one another for a moment... then Brian,

with one hand still on the handcuff keys, shoves the .45

automatic firmly under Early's chin.

CLOSE ON BRIAN

o.s. BANG!! rings out as...

CLOSE UP on the chain and keys snapping free from Early's

neck.

CLOSE UP on Brian's handcuffs hitting the dusty wooden floor.

CLOSE UP on Carrie's handcuff swinging empty against the

rusty bedpost.

A montage of the photographs taken throughout the journey.

Last image: A book "On The Road To Madness" By Brian Kessler.

