BLUE   -   9-19-08                                        6.

They trade a look. Cantrell glances to Sarah.                      *

JUDGE LAURA BURCH presides. Nick, Cantrell, Sarah are present.    *

CLARENCE DARBY is the focus, Bill Reynolds at his side.           *

Nick places a document before DARBY, along with a pen.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                           7.

Nick gives Cantrell a glance, both stoically enduring this

proceeding. Darby pulls the document closer.

He puts pen to paper, looks to Nick.

Cathedral-like, pigeons fluttering. The door from the hallway

opens and BETSY, a months-old GERMAN SHEPHERD PUPPY, bounds

toward us on a leash pulling Cantrell toward the top of the

vast marble staircase. Nick trails them, nervous as hell:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                         8.

Cantrell starts down. Nick's at his side, hovering and ready

to grab him, jumping at every little lurch Cantrell makes.

Nick and Cantrell emerge into daylight and find Darby in the

protective custody of a FEDERAL MARSHAL on the courthouse

steps, surrounded by a crush of REPORTERS:

They catch sight of Bill Reynolds, the defense attorney.

WHITE   -   9-7-8                                           10.

Darby is hustled down the steps. The reporters surge to Nick,

surrounding him, shouting questions.

Nick looks over their heads and glimpses Clyde getting on a

bus. The door closes, the bus pulls away...

Nick enters. Dark. He drops his briefcase by the door.

REFLECTED IN THE MIRROR: KELL, Nick's wife, is just out of

the bath, wearing a robe and toweling her hair.

Nick enters behind her. She cranes back for a kiss, keeps

toweling her hair in the mirror. He hugs her from behind,

buries his face in her neck. Drained.

He reaches around, slowly unties her robe, pulls it open...

...revealing her pregnant belly. (Our angles have avoided

this till now.) He places his hand, feeling for movement.

SLOW TRACKING SHOT finds them in bed, Nick with his head on

Kell's chest. Pensive.

WHITE   -   9-7-8                                           12.

Nick and Kell asleep. She's no longer pregnant -- it's now

ten years later. A long beat of quiet...

A small face peers in from the hallway. EMMA, their 10 year-

old daughter. She darts in, puts her face to Nick's.

She jumps up on the bed, bouncing up and down and dancing

around, hollering at the top of her lungs:

Nick and Kell are too groggy to do anything but ride it out.

Emma sails off the bed and vanishes out the door, hollering

all the way up the hallway:

Nick and Kell are left groping with blankets, heart rates,

and consciousness:

Nick and Emma finishing breakfast, getting ready to leave,

Kell packing Emma's lunch at the counter:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       13.

He claps his hand over her mouth.

She's doing that "sneakily drawing close" thing again. Nick

holds up his finger, cautioning her to say it quietly.

Emma grabs her stuff, kisses dad, races from the room. Kell

grabs her keys to follow, kisses Nick goodbye.

Cars are traveling an old service road...

Nick's in back with Cantrell. The years have left Cantrell

90% blind; his glasses are beyond Coke bottle-thick.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          15.

Nick and his colleagues are among SEVERAL DOZEN WITNESSES

seated in chairs. They watch as WARDEN IGER faces Rupert.

Rupert doesn't have much of an IQ and he's scared shitless,

but he does his best:

He pauses, trying to untangle his thoughts.

Nick trades a look with Sarah. Cantrell is stoic.

Warden Iger nods to TWO GUARDS manning the LETHAL INJECTION

MACHINE, on which EIGHT OVERSIZED GLASS CYLINDERS in a vertical

row are the main feature, filled with various clear liquids.

There are two switches -- one a dummy, the other live (no way

to know which is which). The guards power up the machine.

Lights activate on the board. Each man grabs a switch, waits.

Nick watches the wall clock. It hits 7 o'clock. The warden         *

nods and the guards flick their switches, quickly leaving the      *

room. The warden follows them out, closes the door.

We hear the pumps quietly activate. Rupert is taking shallow

breaths, terrified...then lays back to wait.

PLUNGER ONE slowly descends, emptying its contents into the

I.V. lines...

Rupert sags as the fast-acting barbiturate spreads through

his veins...his breathing slows...his head drops back... he

loses consciousness...

PLUNGER TWO depresses, sending the second vial of liquid into

the I.V. lines with a quiet whir of pumps...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       17.

It's going down his arms and legs, up his neck, infusing his

ears -- a nauseating discoloration courses through his body,

using his veins as a road map, going from red to yellow to

black like bruises birthing spontaneously before our eyes...

People in the room scream, turning away. Nick pushes his way

to the viewing glass, shouting at the techs:

The techs dash into the chamber -- but are instantly gagging      *

and choking on the toxic fumes billowing from Rupert. They        *

retreat coughing, pulling the door shut again.                    *

Rupert's screams spew forth toxic fumes...breath blows smoke

from his nostrils...eyes liquefy...he's arching against his

restraints so hard that bones begin snapping, blood spewing

and smoking through his skin...

All Nick can do is stand at the glass in horror as whatever

is happening runs its course and the victim collapses in a

cloudy, toxic haze...

Drained and waiting: Nick sitting against the town car.

Cantrell across from him with Betsy at his side (the guide

dog will always be at his side in this movie, specified or

not). EMERGENCY LIGHTS are swirling all around them.

A PARADE OF PEOPLE descends: DETECTIVE DUNNIGAN, Sarah, Warden

Iger, COPS, PRISON STAFF. Intense:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       18.

A beat of awkward silence. The warden hesitating.

Dunnigan brings our group in. ELECTRICIANS huddle at an array    *

of circuits and trunk lines. In the dancing flashlight beams:    *

Nick sees a CIRCUIT-BOARD spliced into the wiring.

Nick and Cantrell are stunned as this sinks in.

Cantrell removes his glasses, rubs his eyes. Softly:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       19.

Dunnigan aims his maglight and swings the junction box cover

all the way open. Scrawled on the inside of the door in red

are the words: "HIS TONGUE WILL WAG IN HELL."

CAMERA PUSHES IN on Nick...

Nick's LAPTOP sits on an unmarked car, streaming the D.A.'S

DATABASE by wireless. Nick taps the keys, as:

DARBY'S MUGSHOT (ten years ago) scans up, along with pertinent    *

info of that time. GARZA, Dunnigan's partner, peers at it.        *

Surprised looks are traded.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       20.

Off Cantrell's look...

AERIAL SHOT: ANGLING DOWN to find a CONVOY OF POLICE VEHICLES

speeding across a bridge.

Garza driving. Dunnigan riding shotgun. Nick in back, putting    *

on a tactical vest. A transmission comes over the car's          *

dashboard computer: a MURKY NIGHTTIME SHOT OF A MAN in           *

sunglasses and Hawaiian shirt.                                   *

Dunnigan scrolls the classified police data pertaining to the

informant: dates, number of convictions attributed...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       21.

A snort from Nick. The cops glance back.

Nick stares at the man on the dashboard computer screen...

...who is indeed Clarence Darby, naked and drenched with sweat,    *

taking a hit off a crack pipe. A woman's HAND flails up into

frame, trying to grab for it.

He sucks in a full breath, hands the pipe off to: LISA, the

thin tattooed skank he's got bent over his bed and is fucking

from behind. She flares the bowl with a lighter, barely

registering any reaction as he keeps pumping her.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                         23.

Click -- line dead. Darby frozen for a moment, looking around

at all the drugs and paraphernalia. He scrambles, tossing on

his pants, grabbing his shirt. Lisa jumps off the bed --

She goes to the window, sees cars sweeping from the darkness.

Darby lunges to a bookcase, grabs a REVOLVER from behind the         *

books, sails out the bedroom door...

...and races down the steps with Lisa at his heels.

She catches him halfway across the room, holding him back. He

smashes the gun into her face repeatedly...

...and knocks her bleeding and crying to the floor. He sails

on through the kitchen, leaving her there...

...and bursts through the screen door, fleeing barefoot across

the back yard as VEHICLES AND COPS swarm the front of the

house. A cruiser nails him with a spotlight:

Darby, never slowing, swings his arm around, FIRING his

revolver blindly at all the lights...

...whoa, fuck, gunshots! Cops scramble and dive.   Nick has

just gotten out of Dunnigan's car -- a cruiser's   window takes

a blind hit nearby, exploding glass. Nick ducks,   total shock,      *

out of his element. Drawing, Dunnigan throws him   to the ground.    *

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          24.

Darby runs like an amped-up rat in a maze, hearing cop cars

in the night: Engines ROARING, tires SQUEALING...

Suddenly, the SOUND OF A HELICOPTER above. Darby dashes for

cover against a garage, lost in shadow. A massively bright

searchlight sweeps from above, probing...

Darby crouches, heart hammering, watching the searchlight

scan over rooftops. His phone RINGS, he answers:

Darby glances at the gun, realizing. He bangs his head back

against the garage wall in frustration -- fuck!

Darby frantically wipes the gun with his shirttail, as:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                         25.

Click -- line dead. Darby breaks cover, heaves the gun into

somebody's yard, keeps moving...

Chaotic with cops and lights. Lisa is dragged out, shrieking

and bleeding, her face a broken mess. ANGLE TO Nick watching

it all unfold. He sees Dunnigan approach:

Darby finds a POLICE CRUISER parked in the moonlight, window

down. Dark inside. A LOCAL COP is sprawled across the front

seat...groaning, coming to.

Darby jumps in, passenger side, wrestles the cop upright. He

yanks the cop's service revolver, slapping him awake.

Darby reaches over and keys the engine to life.

The cop hits the gas. Tense moments go by as they accelerate

up a dark road. Darby ducks as COP CARS stream past.

Dunnigan and Nick tense, hearing a VOICE over the radio:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          26.

Tracks and factories, remote and deserted. Far away, the POLICE

COPTER is still buzzing, searching...

The police cruiser appears, stops. Darby emerges with gun and      *

flashlight leveled, motions for the cop to get out. The cop        *

complies with hands raised, shaking.

Darby shoves him stumbling into the ditch. The cop sinks to

his knees and starts to weep.

Darby steps closer, draws the hammer back, takes aim for a

head shot...but his PHONE RINGS. He pulls it fast.

On his knees in the muck, the cop's quiet weeping becomes

soft laughter. He brings up a cell phone, speaks into it:

Darby draws back, confused, gun still aimed. The cop snaps

his cell phone shut, rises to face him.

He takes his hat off, peels his moustache away. Darby pins

him with the flashlight, finally and fully revealing:

Recognition floods Darby. He pulls the trigger, and:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       29.

He finishes buttoning up, crosses back to the table, raises a

new object into view: a CIRCULAR POWER SAW.                        *

Pause. The reality of what he's about to do washing over him:     *

He puts a construction-site face protector atop his head, the

kind with a full plastic face shield that can be flipped down.    *

He turns and undoes the slipknot of a laundry cord stretching     *

up to the ceiling. He feeds the cord and a full-length mirror     *

tilts down horizontally above the table. Darby finds himself      *

staring straight up into it -- he'll see everything.              *

ANGLE FROM BEHIND VIDEO CAMERA

The CAMERA'S LCD SCREEN looms large in our shot. The LCD is

dark, the camera inactive. It's mounted high on a tripod,

aimed down at the table. Clyde approaches b.g., pauses.

He flips his visor down -- dark, no face visible. He reaches

up, turns the camera on. The LCD screen activates.

ANGLE CLOSES IN until all we see is:

THE LCD IMAGE. Grainy in low light. Clyde, now faceless behind

the visor, crosses to the squirming figure on the table. We

hear the CIRCULAR SAW BUILD TO A HIGH SHRIEK...

...and the SHRIEKING SAW FADES...

THE BLACKNESS OPENS UP -- we're in a cop car's trunk looking

up as the lid is opened. A FIGURE in a meat-packing coat looms

over us, faceless and scary behind a dark face protector.

ANGLE INTO TRUNK                                                   *

reveals OFFICER HILTS hand-cuffed and duct-taped. He's spent      *

the night in here. He recoils, terrified and blinded by glare.    *

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                      29A.

The figure opens a wicked-sharp butterfly knife, CLICK-CLACKS

it open. He leans down, slits the tape binding Hilts' arms,

drops the keys in the cop's hands.

The police cruiser sits on a dirt road, a FEMALE DISPATCHER'S

VOICE issuing softly and incessantly from the radio:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          30.

The mysterious figure strides from the police cruiser to a

MIDNIGHT BLUE 1965 LINCOLN CONTINENTAL in superb condition,

shrugging off his thick coat. He gets in, hits the gas.

Hilts struggles to uncuff himself in the cruiser's trunk,          *

arms and legs cramping, as:                                        *

The Lincoln becomes a CLOUD OF DUST receding in the distance...    *

Cleaning up the aftermath of the party: Nick up on a step-

stool taking down the birthday banner; Kell in her robe feeding

the dishwasher; Emma zooming in and out shuttling paper plates

and plastic cups into a big trash bag...

She's out of the kitchen to grab more stuff. Kell starts

preparing a bowl of cereal for Emma.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                        31.

Emma re-enters, dumping more trash:

The DOORBELL RINGS. Kell glances out the window.

She runs out. Nick comes off the step-stool, gratefully accepts

a cup of coffee from Kell. He suddenly freezes, notices:

The kitchen TV is playing CNN: a top-of-the-hour story on the

Rupert Ames execution and foul-up.

At the front door, a MESSENGER hands Emma a GIFT BASKET

trailing mylar balloons with "Happy Birthday Emma" on them.

She closes the door, turns toward us, finds a CARDBOARD

ENVELOPE on the basket -- a card? She opens it, finds:

Not a card. An unlabeled DVD.

LOCAL SHERIFFS (not city cops) are spreading out across the        *

fields, beating the grass, looking for clues...

ANGLE TO Officer Hilts, blanket-draped and still rattled by

his night-long ordeal, being interviewed by a SERGEANT:

Suddenly, we hear a DISTANT VOICE shouting in panic:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          32.

Everybody's gaze snaps up, tense. Across the fields, a YOUNG

COP is stumbling away from a distant farm shed, pointing:          *

Nick at the table with Kell, riveted to CNN: STATE OFFICIALS,

including Iger, are being grilled in a media frenzy. Cantrell

was right, it's a shitstorm of scrutiny...

Emma, munching her bowl of breakfast cereal, slots the DVD in

the player. She backs up, hits play with the remote.

An IMAGE appears on screen, grainy. Emma looks perplexed.

It's not a normal DVD -- more like a bad home movie:

A figure in a plastic coat and face shield turns from the

camera to a table, where another man is strapped down.

The first man raises a circular saw. The man on the table is

thrashing weakly, trying to move. Emma still has no idea what

she's looking at. Suddenly:

The man with the saw makes a quick sweep across the table,

across the other man's leg at the shin. The move was so fast

and casual that it's taking a moment to sink in:

Emma stands frozen, clutching her cereal bowl.

B.G., we see Nick lean back in his chair, reacting to her

tone of voice...and by what sounds like a shrieking saw.

On screen, the man with the saw picks up the severed limb and

shows it to the victim. It's been lopped off below the knee.

Emma drops her bowl -- it shatters at her feet. Nick and Kell

enter behind her, confused, not sure what they're seeing...

On screen, the man with the saw lops off the victim's forearm.

Emma turns, throws herself into her parents' arms. They drop

to their knees, shielding their sobbing daughter. PUSH IN ON

them staring at the shrieking saw...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          33.

Nick lunges to turn off the TV as:

FROM THIS POINT ONWARD, WE PLAY THE SEQUENCE AS MONTAGE:

The door is swung open in a blaze of sunlight. The local cops

enter with pistols drawn and shotguns leveled. Faces go stark

with horror as their eyes adjust.

A RECORD is pulled from a sleeve. An old-school vinyl LP.

Cops easing in. ANGLE SWINGS QUEASILY AROUND as they enter,

WIDENING to reveal a scene of nightmare intensity: Blood

everywhere. Streaks. Spatters. And body parts. Strewn and

discarded. Intestines nailed to the rafters overhead.

A RECORD PLAYER NEEDLE DROPS, hits the groove with a HISS of

vinyl. MUSIC STARTS TO PLAY LOUDLY, BOOMING through the space.     *

FOCUS REMAINS WITH the spinning record. An OUT-OF-FOCUS FIGURE

in a rolling chair pushes away from the record player and

sails across the room toward a brightly-lit work table...

Cops are covering their mouths with handkerchiefs, gagging.

The stench is incredible. Flies are buzzing and swarming. One

cop turns away and doubles over, trying not to puke.

The Sergeant moves cautiously forward, finds: A HEAD. On the

wooden dissection table. Clarence Darby, not that you'd

recognize him. His eyes are gone. His lips are missing. His

teeth...well, most of them are scattered about.

A MINIATURE CIVIL WAR SOLDIER is held in extreme magnification

before us under a tabletop magnifier, the tip of a paintbrush

delicately evoking stunning detail...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          34.

Emma is still sobbing into her mother's arms as Nick takes

the frame f.g., shouting into the phone:

Dunnigan enters frame f.g., snatches up his extension. He

listens for a few beats, trying to get a word in:

A GIANT EYEBALL stares at us, unnaturally magnified by a

tabletop magnifier. The lens is swept aside, revealing:

Benson Clyde. In addition to the tabletop magnifier, he's

wearing MAGNIFYING LENSES on his head. He examines the figurine

with his naked eye, then flips the glasses down to continue...

VEHICLES race along two-lane blacktop: CRUISERS, UNMARKED

CARS, TACTICAL VANS. A POLICE HELICOPTER skims along just

above them at scary-low altitude...

The cars veer off pavement and up a dirt road, kicking up an

awesome trail of dust as the copter sweeps wide, pacing...

Tense faces: Dunnigan, Garza, Nick.

WHITE   -   9-7-8                                           35.

Clyde pauses, hearing a RUMBLE under the music. Glances up as

the rumble passes overhead -- a helicopter? He clicks on a

tiny fan, holds the figurine under it, giving it a final dry.

A shitstorm descends: vehicles swerving in, COPS jumping out,

machine gun-toting SWAT TACTICAL TROOPS pouring from vans...

Clyde, still holding the figurine under the whirring fan,

leans to one side in his chair, glancing out the window.

He glimpses scurrying figures behind cars, cops darting and

surrounding the house, motioning with hand signals...

He holds up the figurine for a final look. Satisfied with it,

he places it onto:

A CHESSBOARD -- the last piece. All the others are also hand-

painted, gorgeous. Real craftsmanship here.

He stands. Calmly moves to the middle of the room. Kicks off

his shoes. Peels off his shirt and undershirt. Even takes off

his pants. There will be no confusion about hidden weapons.

He positions himself, very precise and purposeful. Lifts his

hands high above his head. Presenting himself. Waiting.

Then, bam: doors EXPLODE in and windows SHATTER as the SWAT

tactical troops storm the room, bad-asses in black, machine

guns aimed, encircling him, everybody shouting:

Clyde is the calm eye of a pissed-off storm of highly

professional cops with itchy trigger fingers. He remains

serene, looking around at them, hands raised high...

He compliantly goes to his knees, then prone, offers his hands

behind his back. They move in, cuff him, as troops spread

throughout the house yelling "Clear!"

Nick, wearing his kevlar, follows Dunnigan and Garza. Nick

glances over and sees a perfect 1965 midnight-blue Lincoln

Continental in the carport...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          36.

Clyde is pulled to his feet just as Nick enters. UNIFORMS

spread out, securing the house. Dunnigan faces Clyde...

...as the full Miranda is read, Nick and Clyde have their

eyes locked throughout -- this moment is all about them...

Clyde is hustled outside, leaving Nick with Dunnigan and Garza

in the farmhouse -- it's renovated, clean, very loft-like.

Nick drifts to the table, sees the chess board, can't help

admiring the pieces. Then his eyes go to a floor-to-ceiling

bookcase. He's stunned to realize: they're all law books.

Nick turns, moves to Garza's side. Dunnigan joins them. All

three staring at a wall. ANGLE SHIFTS around to reveal:

The long-ago PHOTO (clipped from a newspaper) of Nick and

Clarence Darby shaking hands on the courthouse steps.

ANGLE WIDENS to reveal:

Photo after photo. The crime scene photos...photos of Clyde

and his family in happier times...photos clipped from magazines

and newspapers about the murder and trial...all very neatly

and precisely arrayed. The entire wall covered with them.

THE MUSIC KEEPS BOOMING from the record player. Dunnigan turns     *

TIGHT TO CAMERA and yells:

Clyde sits alone and isolated in a small room. WIDEN to reveal

Sarah at the observation glass. She turns as Nick steps up.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                  41.

Nick paces agitated, with the group:                        *

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          42.

Beat. Nick takes a deep breath.

STEADICAM TWO SILHOUETTES: We're following Nick and Sarah

through one of the pedestrian tunnels to the street:

We find a MERCEDES at the curb -- Kell at the wheel, Emma in

back. Nick gets in. Sarah leans down, happy to see them. Emma's

face lights up -- the little girl obviously adores her.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       43.

Sarah blows Emma a big extravagant kiss. Emma returns it,

waves as they pull away. Nick and Kell glance back, happy to

see their daughter acting a bit more like her old self...

Late. Nick, in t-shirt and pajama bottoms, comes up a dark

hallway with a file in his hand, rubbing his eyes. He comes

to his daughter's bedroom door, quietly turns the knob...

EMMA'S BEDROOM

...and finds the bed empty. Sheets thrown back.

Nick stands for a moment, every irrational fear he's ever had

washing over him. CAMERA FOLLOWS HIM fast down the hallway...

...into the master bedroom, where he finds Emma sleeping with

Kell. He stands for a moment, heart hammering. Softly:

Kell stirs, sees him, puts a finger to her lips. In whispers:

He climbs onto the bed, cuddles up, Emma between them.

Nick lays there, listening...

BLUE      -   9-19-08                                    44.

A huge domed chamber. In the center of the floor stands a

smaller free-standing domed cage, like a bizarre birdcage.

Inside the birdcage: Nick and Garza wait. Garza mans a camera.

Outside the birdcage: Observers. Some (Cantrell and Sarah)

occupy floor-level, where the video monitors are. Others (Iger

and Dunnigan) are on a catwalk above that encircles the room.

A door opens and Clyde is brought into the birdcage. He gazes

around, checking his surroundings.

He sits. Nick joins him, pulls out a legal pad.

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                   46.

Clyde is mildly taken aback. The cops tense up.

Everybody's wound up, talking fast:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       47.

Cantrell weighs it, decides:

Clyde watches as MAINTENANCE MEN remove the unbolted cot from

the cell and his Sleep-Matic is rolled in.

CONVICTS watch, dumbfounded. Clyde's cellmate, a towering

Aryan Brother named DWIGHT DIXON, stands quietly amazed...

Back in the birdcage:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       48.

Nick flips to a new page on his pad.

Reactions all around the room. Iger leans forward:

Clyde absorbs that, looks to Nick, as:

AN IPOD AND SPEAKER DOCK now occupy a small plywood shelf

attached to the railing outside Clyde's cell. A GUARD plugs

it in via a long orange extension cord.

ANGLE WIDENS to Iger, who turns to the bars and hands a remote

control through to Clyde. Dixon's watching balefully, as is

every inmate on the cellblock.

WHITE   -   9-7-8                                        49.

Iger draws close to the bars. Quietly:

Clyde glances back to Dwight. Dwight's watching, glowering,

agreement in his silence. Clyde turns back to Iger.

Iger walks away. Clyde aims the remote. MUSIC STARTS PLAYING.

He leans his head on the bars, listening, blissed. Cons all

over the cellblock are staring daggers at him.

Nick trades looks with the others in the room -- everybody

have what they need? People nod. Nicks closes his pad.

BLUE      -   9-19-08                                    52.

PUSH IN ON Clyde in the frozen silence...

A HELICOPTER THROTTLES UP, everything moving fast: an FBI

FIELD TEAM, led by AGENT SAM DAVIES, emerges from a staircase

door onto the roof, where they are met by Nick and Dunnigan.

Davies dons his kevlar vest on the move toward the waiting

copter, everybody SHOUTING over the rotors:

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          53.

They get to the helicopter, feds loading in as Nick pulls a

business card, hands it to Davies.

Davies gets in, signals the PILOT. The copter takes to the

air, buffeting Nick and Dunnigan...

TIGHT ON CLYDE. He looks up, speaking slowly and clearly:

FBI HELICOPTER THUNDERING over the city...

The helicopter veers, banks into a steep turn...

Nick enters, moves through the bullpen. ADAs (assistant

district attorneys) are working and grimly focused. Nick pokes

his head into Sarah's office. She looks up.

A HIGH-END DELIVERY VAN bearing the logo of La Traviata is

waved through the gate into the delivery entrance...

THE FBI HELICOPTER THUNDERS over beautiful green hills...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                          54.

Nick gazing out the window, Cantrell seated with his dog,

Sarah reading the report thus far:

A CONVICT comes to his bars, peering out...                         *

...because here comes the rolling La Traviata cart -- gleaming

domes keeping food warm, silver utensils, crisp linens, a

ROSE in a bud vase. A red-jacketed LA TRAVIATA WAITER is

pushing the cart, accompanied by GUARDS and Warden Iger.

More cons appear at their bars, faces peering, an angry grumble

growing in the cellblock as the cart goes by. The waiter's

looking around, nervous...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                         55.

The waiter, hemmed by guards, nervously reads the order:

THE HELICOPTER ROARS IN, lands. Davies and his men jump out.

AN FBI GROUND TEAM is waiting for them. A CAMDEN FIELD AGENT

runs up and points at the ground, shouting:

Davies signals his team. SHOVELS AND PICKS hit the ground...

...while GORGEOUS FOOD hits paper plates. It's being slopped

unceremoniously from the fine china by the guards. TILT UP to

Iger overseeing this process, passing china and utensils to

the waiter, who's flustered:

Clyde's got the rose, teasing his nose with it. All around        *

the cellblock, inmates are shouting insults and threats...

BLUE    -   9-19-08                                         56.

Sarah is exiting, leaving Nick and Cantrell to stare at the

phone and wait for it to ring...

Digging. Sod coming off, being set aside on plastic. FLASH

PHOTOS being taken. Stones being pried up...

Waiter and guards exit with the cart. The entire cellblock is

SHOUTING. Iger pauses, gives a final glance back. Softly:

Then he too departs, as:

CLYDE

aims his remote. MUSIC for dining. Clyde glances back at            *

Dwight, who's poised and tense.

Clyde motions "join me, won't you?" They each take a seat.

Clyde passes Dwight a crisply-folded linen napkin. Dwight

tucks it like a bib. Clyde lays his on his lap.

A hurled object CLANGS off their bars. The cons are now

throwing things, hollering to raise the dead. Clyde cranks

the music a bit louder, motions for Dwight to dig in.

Dwight goes for it, cramming food in his mouth and grabbing

for more, fingers digging in...

...fingers digging in, pulling loose soil, prying stones. A

layer of soil is brushed aside to reveal:

A face. Embedded in the dirt. He's been there a long time.

FLASH PHOTOS highlight desiccated lips and teeth...

BLUE   -   9-19-08                                       57.

...lips and teeth -- Dwight chewing, laughing. Oddly enough,

he and Clyde seem to have started enjoying each other's

company. THE MUSIC PLAYS in bizarre counterpoint to:                *

THE CACOPHONY of an angry cellblock -- if the cons weren't in

their cells, this would be a riot. All imaginable items are

being hurled through bars: toilet paper rolls, books, shoes,

clothes, all raining down, showering the cellblock floor...

Dwight throws his head back and laughs...

...while, in deep silence, Nick unwraps a sorry-looking deli

sandwich, swaps his pickles for Cantrell's potato salad (their

long-standing ritual). They both keep glancing at the phone...

...as Clyde and Dwight indulge their food orgy. Dialogue is

not important, so we won't hear any -- we'll let the MUSIC         *

take over and carry -- because it's all about tone:

They're laughing and talking, winding each other up. And the

more Clyde wisecracks, the more Dwight laughs.

Clyde finishes gnawing a lamb rack and says something to Dwight

about the ruckus. Dwight turns, glances out, as:

Clyde casually, but with purpose, lowers the bone onto his

lap -- adding it to one already there. He picks up a fresh

one, starts chewing the meat off...

Dark enough now for flashlights. In the beams, we see the

body mostly excavated. Forensic team members gather, in gloves

and breather masks, getting ready to try lifting.

ANGLE FINDS Davies at the helicopter, activity around him,

holding Nick's card and dialing a cell phone...

Clyde laughing, chewing, gnawing that third bone. ANGLE CLOSES

DOWN as he brings it to his lap...

