EXT. FARM - DAY

It is a hot summer day. A large run down farm house,

several sheds, a red roof barn and a decrepid silo sit

between fields of dry, uncut grass, in a serene isolated

valley.

TWO MEN tack together a broken fence that encloses an

overgrown paddock.

THREE WOMEN work in a vegetable garden.

TWO WOMEN hang wet clothes on a clothes line.

TWO MEN work in a cluttered garage on an old car.

FOUR WOMEN sit in a circle on a broken down, buckling

front porch. One woman breast feeds a new born. The

others knit a large blanket.

TWO WOMEN and TWO MEN swim naked in a swimming hole.

A MAN in his forties sits alone in a room reading.

A MAN chops wood.

A bare foot TODDLER plays alone in the driveway.

INT. FARM HOUSE - DAY

A large room with unfinished wood walls has several

blankets and pillows laid out like beds on the floor.

TWO WOMEN are in the kitchen preparing food.

MARTHA, sets a table for eight. Martha is beautiful but

appears run down. She is 24 years old but her weathered

face makes her look older. A bell rings off screen.

INT. FARM HOUSE DINING ROOM - EVENING

The men sit around a table eating dinner.

One man sits at the head of the table, this is PATRICK.

Patrick is older than the other men. To his right is

WATTS, a man in his early twenties with a greasy patchy

beard.

INT. FARM HOUSE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

The women are scattered around the kitchen waiting. The

men finish dinner, pass through the kitchen and walk

outside.

The women file into the dining room, clear the men's

dishes, put more chairs around the table, and bring out a

new serving of food.

INT. FARM HOUSE DINING ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

The women sit around the table eating very small portions

of low protein food. Katie sits at the head of the table.

INT. FARM HOUSE - EARLY MORNING

The kitchen is filled with dishes.

TWO BABIES sleep next to each other in an old broken

crib. A teenage girl sleeps on the floor next to the

crib.

People are strewn all over the house sleeping. Suddenly,

a figure passes quickly through frame.

EXT. FARM HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks out the front door, across the porch, and up

the driveway. She carries a small bag.

Her pace becomes increasingly faster. She looks back to

see a teenage girl, SARAH, standing in the window

watching.

Martha turns and walks faster, heading straight for the

woods. As she gets to the edge of the trees she begins

to run.

SLOW ZOOM: MARTHA DISAPPEARS INTO THE THICK WOODS.

Off screen, the house DOOR SLAMS SHUT. A MAN urgently

yells out: "MARCY MAY"

The camera holds on the trees shaking gently in the wind.

For a moment everything is quiet.

Suddenly, A MAN and TWO WOMEN enter frame and run into

the woods, chasing after Martha.

EXT. WOODS - CONTINUOUS

The woods are dark. Martha runs as fast as she can. She

hears the MAN's voice calling her from a distance. A man

and two women are chasing her.

Martha arrives at a steep heavily wooded hill. She keeps

running at full speed, then slips, falls, and rolls.

Martha ducks behind a fallen tree and looks back to see

the group arrive at the ridge to survey the woods and

begin their descent.

Martha holds still, listening as the people chasing her

pass by.

EXT. DINER PARKING LOT - DAY

Martha uses a pay phone at a diner. She dials and waits.

She is struck by the voice that answers, she transforms

from being a zombie to being flooded with emotion.

Martha doesn't know what to say, she bursts into tears.

Martha thinks for a moment.

INT. DINER - DAY

Martha sits alone in a booth hunched over a grilled

cheese sandwich and french fries. She devours the food

like she hasn't eaten in days.

The entrance bell rings. Martha turns around and

cautiously peers over the booth. A FAMILY walks in. They

are seated. Martha returns to eating.

It is Watts. His voice paralyzes her.

Martha stops eating. He slides into the booth and sits

across from her.

Watts reaches over and takes some french fries. He eats

them slowly, enjoying every bite. She can't look at him.

The waitress goes to take Martha's plate. Watts puts his

hand out to stop her.

Watts takes the half grilled cheese sandwich and stuffs

it into his mouth. The waitress clears the plate.

Watts takes Martha's napkin and wipes the grease from his

hands and mouth while he chews.

Martha doesn't respond.

The waitress drops the check on the table.

Watts stares at Martha for another moment before reaching

into his pocket to pull out a mess of small papers. He

sorts through them and separates a $20 bill. He stuffs

the rest of the papers back into his pocket. He grabs her

hand, places the money in her palm and grips it closed.

He lets go. Her hand goes limp and the money falls on the

table. She does not look at him. He leans in and forces

eye contact with her.

Watts, growing increasingly tense, stands up and glances

around the diner. It is very busy. He does not want to

make a scene in front of all these people.

He leans down and kisses Martha on the cheek. She doesn't

kiss back. He holds his forehead to her forehead until

she reacts. She reluctantly kisses him on the lips.

Martha watches him walk outside. As soon as his back is

turned, she gets up, runs through the diner, and suddenly

cuts through the kitchen.

EXT. BUS STOP - LATER

Martha sits on the ground hiding between two benches at

an empty bus stop. She does not look well. She turns and

vomits behind the bench.

EXT. BUS STOP - LATER

Martha hides between two parked buses. She watches a

BLACK BMW pull into the parking lot. LUCY, a well dressed

woman in her early 30's, gets out of the car. Martha

walks towards Lucy. Lucy rushes over and hugs Martha.

INT. LUCY'S CAR - DAY

Martha, wrapped in Lucy's sweater, leans her head against

the window watching the road behind her in the side view

mirror.

Lucy notices that Martha's left ear is bruised.

Martha thinks.

Martha doesn't answer.

Martha nods.

Lucy is skeptical.

Martha nods.

Martha nods.

Lucy is upset but manages to remain calm.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/MARTHA'S BEDROOM - EVENING

Lucy makes the bed. Martha enters the room wrapped in a

towel. Her hair drips on the floor.

Lucy takes a small hand towel and dries Martha's hair.

Lucy leaves. Martha gets under the sheets wrapped in her

wet towel.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Lucy sits at the kitchen table with a glass of RED WINE.

The front door opens. She puts on a smile as TED enters.

He speaks with a BRITISH ACCENT. He sets down his bag and

gives her a hug and a kiss.

Ted keeps his comments to himself.

Ted kisses her on the forehead and walks to the liquor

cabinet and pours a scotch.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT

The house is completely dark. Martha finds her way

through the hallway and into the kitchen. She drinks

water from the faucet with an insatiable thirst.

The kitchen has large windows, through which a bright

spot light, lights the porch but pitch black darkness is

beyond that. Martha is scared to look outside. She forces

herself to slowly turn and look. She puts her head down

and quickly returns to her room.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/MARTHA'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Martha is wrapped in a wet towel sleeping on the floor.

Martha does not know where she is. A moment passes before

she starts to come to.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Lucy and Ted eat at the kitchen table. Martha enters.

Lucy puts some eggs on a plate for Martha.

Ted and Lucy eat, Martha takes miniscule bites.

Lucy gets up from the table and walks to another room.

Martha sniffs her food. Ted doesn't notice.

Lucy re-enters with her digital camera.

Lucy notices that Martha isn't eating.

Martha, feeling on the spot, forces down a big bite.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE DOCK - DAY

Martha sits cross legged on a sun bed looking out to the

lake. Ted naps while Lucy sun bathes reading THE MOTHER

OF ALL BABY BOOKS.

Lucy is confused. She tries to make sense of the

question.

Martha nods.

Lucy goes back to reading. Martha lies down and stares at

the sky. A light banging sound starts to echo over the

lake.

EXT. FARM FIELD - DAY

THE SOUND IS THE SAME AS THE LAKE: A light breeze in the

trees and the water gently hitting the dock.

Patrick and two men build a fence.

Martha lies in the open field smoking cigarettes with

ZOE, a girl in her early twenties.

Martha is younger, more energetic and confident. They are

laughing and talking when Zoe notices Patrick walking

towards them.

They put out their cigarettes. Zoe buries them in the

grass. Patrick approaches them.

Patrick crouches down over Zoe but smiles at Martha.

He glances at her legs, then back up to her face. He

turns his attention to Zoe.

Patrick gestures towards Martha.

He continues to walk through the field. Zoe and Martha

recline into the grass and continue talking.

Martha stands up and brushes herself off.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE DOCK - CONTINUOUS

Martha turns to Zoe but Lucy is there instead, lying on

the sun bed, lost in her book. Lucy does not answer.

Ted runs down the dock and dives into the water. Martha

follows. Ted looks back to see Martha stand at the end of

the dock, take off her clothes and dive in naked.

Martha swims, lost in her own world.

Lucy notices Martha, grabs a towel, and walks down to the

end of the dock. Ted swims back and gets out.

Lucy is not amused. Ted walks away laughing. He turns to

sneak one more glimpse of Martha.

Martha gets out of the water. Lucy wraps the towel around

her and walks away. Martha dries off. She feels

embarrassed.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/MARTHA'S BEDROOM - AFTERNOON

Martha sleeps. Lucy notices the bruising on Martha's ear.

Martha wakes up.

Lucy leaves. Martha opens the window and dumps the pasta

outside then goes back to sleep.

INT. LAKE HOUSE DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

They laugh.

INT. MARTHA'S BEDROOM / LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT

Martha sits up in bed wide awake. She turns and stares

out her window into the dark trees that surround the lake

house.

EXT. FARM HOUSE FRONT PORCH - NIGHT

An OLD BROWN CAR pulls out of the driveway.

Martha sweeps the front porch. She notices the car pull

away.

MAX, A young man in his early twenties, comes outside and

sits down next to her. Max is warm, nice, and care free.

He's not very bright but he is a good time to be around.

He jumps over the banister and reaches under the porch.

He pulls out a little flask and shakes it. A mischievous

smile grows on his face.

INT. FARM HOUSE BEDROOM - MORNING

People are scattered around a large room sleeping. Watts

enters and bangs two pots together to wake everyone.

INT. FARM HOUSE/DRESSING ROOM - MORNING

Martha other girls get dressed in the communal closet.

INT. FARM HOUSE DINING AREA- MORNING

Martha does dishes, Katie clears the table.

Katie pours the cleaner on the floor, it sloshes around.

Katie accidentally drops a plate.

Martha gets down and starts to clean it up.

EXT. FARM - DAY

Martha, Watts, Max, Zoe and a few others sit around and

listen to two men play guitar. Everyone is talking and

laughing and having a nice time.

Patrick approaches. He observes everyone for a moment, he

seems agitated. He speaks above everyone and above the

music.

The guys stop playing music.

Martha is embarrassed and feels on the spot.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - MORNING

Lucy is putting away groceries. Martha enters.

Martha watches Lucy put the groceries away.

There is an awkward silence.

Martha shakes her head. Ted walks to the back of the

boat. Martha has to stand up to let him pass through the

narrow walk way. He brushes up against her as he squeezes

by.

Ted laughs.

Lucy picks up her Polaroid camera and frames up Martha.

Martha notices the camera and quickly turns away.

Martha cracks a smile. Lucy snaps the shot.

Lucy hands Martha the Polaroid, she shakes it.

Martha looks deep in thought, she continues to shake the

Polaroid.

Ted walks back to the front of the boat and looks at

Martha's ass as he passes. Martha is embarrassed. She

stares at the Polaroid.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/TED AND LUCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Martha sits on the bed watching Lucy go through her

closet looking at old clothes. Lucy holds up a summer

dress.

Martha slips on the dress and a funny pose.

They both laugh.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE BACK PORCH - EVENING

Martha laughs. Ted starts laughing. Lucy tries it again.

They laugh and kiss.

INT. MARTHA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Martha lies awake in bed staring at the ceiling. She is

lost deep in thought.

INT. FARM/DARK ROOM - NIGHT

MARTHA SLOWLY WAKES UP. SHE IS LYING ON HER STOMACH ON

COLD CEMENT. THERE ARE HUNDREDS OF CANDLES ON THE FLOOR.

SHE IS DISORIENTED AND FEELS SOMEONE ON TOP OF HER. SHE

TURNS BACK TO LOOK BUT IT'S HARD TO MOVE. SHE CATCHES A

GLIMPSE OF PATRICK, LEANING OVER HER DRIPPING SWEAT.

PATRICK IS AGGRESSIVELY HAVING SEX WITH HER FROM BEHIND.

INT. FARM HOUSE/SMALL DARK ROOM - NIGHT

Martha seems like she has been drugged, she has a white

robe draped around her. Katie consoles her and makes her

drink water.

Martha nods.

INT. FARM HOUSE/ BEDROOM - LATER

Zoe and Martha share a single mattress on the floor in a

small dark room. Martha is still wrapped in the robe, she

is still dazed.

The group sits around listening to Max finish playing a

song. Everyone claps for him. Patrick, who sits in the back,

stands up and walks up to the stage. Everyone gets excited.

Martha sits in the back listening. Everyone turns around

to look at her. She watches on as Patrick begins to play.

The song is a beautiful, intense and haunting folk song.

The whole group is entranced. Martha is mesmerized by

him.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Ted walks into the kitchen.

Martha is on her hands and knees scrubbing the kitchen

floor.

Ted gets a six pack out of the fridge. He cracks a beer

and drinks it.

EXT. BOAT - DAY

Ted drives the boat with a beer in his hand. He moves

over and motions for Martha to take the wheel. Ted slowly

lets go and moves over so she can take the helm. They

brush up against each other. Martha is driving the boat.

She bounces up and down like an excited little girl.

EXT. BOAT - LATER

Martha and Ted sit on the back of the boat. Ted gets a

beer out of the cooler.

Ted hands her a beer. She stares at the beer and

hesitates before taking a giant chug.

Martha takes a swig of her beer.

Martha laughs to herself. The beer is affecting her.

He gets up and opens two more beers.

He hands one to Martha and sits down again.

Ted laughs.

There is another awkward silence. They both drink their

beer.

Martha takes off her clothes. She is wearing a bikini

that Lucy gave her. It does not quite fit. The bathing

suit sags and top of her ass shows. Ted tries not to

look.

THE CAMERA FOLLOWS HER AS SHE DIVES UNDER WATER.

EXT. FARM SWIMMING HOLE - DAY

Martha brings her head above water and she is with a

group of people from the farm swimming in a swimming

hole.

Martha watches as Watts jumps off the cliff into the water.

Everyone cheers him on. Patrick swims up behind Martha.

Watts swims by and guides her out of the water.

Watts and Martha ascend up a narrow dirt path to the top of a

rock face.

Watts jumps. Martha stands alone at the top of the cliff

naked.

Everyone is looking up at her cheering her on. She builds up

the courage and jumps.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/MARTHA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Martha sleeps. THUMP. Something hits the roof. Martha

wakes up. THUMP, ROLL. Martha sits up and listens. She

waits in anticipation. THUMP.

INT. LUCY AND TED'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks down the dark hallway and slowly opens the

door to Ted and Lucy's room.

Ted and Lucy are having sex. Martha watches for a moment,

then creeps into the room and quietly curls up on the

edge of the bed.

Lucy does not see Martha. Ted does not say anything, he

continues to have sex with Lucy. His motion becomes

harder, Lucy opens her eyes and Ted jumps up.

Ted gestures to Martha.

Ted turns on the light. He sits on the edge of the bed.

Martha gets up to leave.

Martha stops and stands facing the door.

Martha goes to leave again.

Martha comes back and sits on the bed.

Lucy can see something is really wrong.

Martha lies in Lucy's lap. Lucy is uncomfortable with the

contact, she pushes Martha's head onto a pillow.

Ted stands up and puts on his sweatpants and walks out.

Martha closes her eyes.

INT. FARM HOUSE/PATRICK'S ROOM - EARLY MORNING

Martha wakes up in Patrick's room, he is gently having

sex with her. She doesn't enjoy it but she doesn't stop

him.

INT. LAKE HOUSE LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Ted is half asleep on the couch. Lucy sits to wake him.

Martha is lying in their bed listening to them through

the cracked doorway.

Martha pretends to go back to sleep.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE GARDEN - DAY

Lucy works in the garden. Martha walks over to help.

They continue to work. Lucy builds up the courage.

Martha feels her ear.

Beat.

EXT. FARM GARDEN - DAY

Martha, Zoe and Katie work in the garden. Several men,

are lifting heavy rocks to make a stone wall.

Max is in the hay loft. Zoe is tucked around the corner

smoking a cigarette. Patrick catches her.

He swats it out of her hand and scolds her. After a

moment he puts his forehead to her forehead and caresses

her head.

Zoe walks back to the garden.

An OLD BROWN CAR pulls into the driveway. A YOUNG GIRL,

no more than fifteen years old gets out.

TWO WOMEN welcome SARAH and walk her into the house.

INT. LUCY'S CAR - DAY

Martha sits in the passenger seat, Lucy drives.

Martha notices a BROWN CAR is parked at the top of the

driveway on the side of the road. Martha is troubled by

the parked car's presence.

INT. GROCERY STORE - DAY

Lucy looks through produce. Martha takes the cart and

runs down the isle with it. She picks her feet off the

ground so she is riding on the cart. Lucy is amused.

Martha turns around and goes faster, flying all the way

down the isle. A good looking YOUNG MAN walks into the

isle. Martha almost hits him with the cart but she slams

her feet on the floor and just misses him. Lucy runs up

and takes the shopping cart back. Martha doesn't say

anything, she just stares at him.

The young man walks down the isle. Martha watches him go.

Martha is distracted.

INT. GROCERY STORE/REFRIGERATOR SECTION - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks through the refrigerated section looking for

water. She notices the Young Man walking behind her. She

stops to get water.

He stops to buy beer. He looks at her. She grabs the

water and walks away.

INT. LUCY'S CAR - DAY

Martha and Lucy get into the car in the grocery store

parking lot. Martha watches the rear view mirror.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - DAY

Lucy is unpacking groceries. Ted enters. Lucy puts

something in a cupboard. Ted takes it out and puts it in

a different cupboard.

INT. FARM HOUSE/WARDROBE - DAY

Martha shows Sarah a large walk in closet. Martha puts

Sarah's clothes on a shelf with all the other clothes.

They walk into a small bedroom.

They walk downstairs. And see another large bedroom.

At the bottom of the stairs, several make shift beds are

laid out on the floor.

There is a baby asleep in the crib.

Martha picks one up, she is very natural with him.

EXT. FARM HOUSE - DAY

Martha walks with Sarah and Zoe across the courtyard and

out into the field towards the woods.

Patrick and Watts walk out of the woods.

INT. FARM KITCHEN - NIGHT

Katie teaches Martha how to make a vegetable drink.

Martha adds some herbs.

Katie hands her a large chalky white pill.

Martha breaks the tablet in half and drops it into the

drink. She crushes it with a spoon.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Martha is back at the Lake house. Lucy enters and begins

to load the dishwasher. Martha holds the glass with the

green drink which we now see is just water.

Martha leaves. Holding the glass tightly, Martha walks to

her bedroom.

IN ONE LONG TAKE, WHILE WALKING FROM THE KITCHEN TO THE

BEDROOM, THE GLASS OF WATER HAS CHANGED BACK TO THE GREEN

DRINK MARTHA PREPARED WITH KATIE.

INT. FARM/SMALL DARK ROOM - CONTINUOUS

Martha enters her bedroom holding the green drink.

Sarah sits in a chair wearing a WHITE ROBE. The room is

no longer Martha's bedroom at the lake, it is a small

dark room at the farm.

Sarah is nervous. Martha brushes Sarah's hair.

Sarah takes a sip of a thick green drink. She gags.

Martha lifts the bottom of the glass to force it down.

Sarah looks very uncomfortable. She is getting light

headed from the drink.

Martha helps Sarah up and passes her through a door to

the next room. She removes Sarah's robe and lays her on

the ground. Martha shuts the door locking her in.

Martha lies down on the floor and curls up into a ball.

INT. MARTHA'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Martha wakes up wearing Lucy's dress. She has wet

herself.

Martha takes off the dress and stuffs it between the

mattress and the box spring.

EXT. LAKE - SUNSET

Martha sits alone on the steps looking out onto the

water. She is deep in thought. Lucy walks down the stairs

and sits next to her.

Martha is lost deep in thought.

Beat.

I don't know.

I'm just trying to figure out why we

stopped talking.

I didn't think about it.

Really?

We were far apart.

Sometimes I wonder if, maybe I could have

taken better care of you.

The past doesn't matter.

It does matter.

I took care of myself.

I know you did. I think I could have done

more though.

Stop it.

Be honest with me, you never think about

it?

No.

You're not angry at me?

I know you don't think much of me but I

knew what I was doing then and I still

do.

Martha doesn't respond she drifts off into deep thought.

INT. LAKE HOUSE DINING ROOM - NIGHT

Ted, Lucy and Martha eat at the dinner table.

Ted laughs.

Lucy is floored by Martha's response.

Martha, with a frightening streak of viciousness stands

up to Ted.

Ted and Lucy are speechless. Martha leaves.

INT. LAKE HOUSE HALLWAY - NIGHT

Martha sneaks downstairs in the middle of the night. Ted

and Lucy are asleep in their room. Martha picks up the

phone and dials a number. A WOMAN picks up.

Martha hangs up. The phone rings. She unplugs the phone

and collapses on the floor.

EXT. FARM - DAY

Martha and the others are practicing pick pocketing.

Martha looks out into the feild to see Patrick talking

with Sarah. She is enamoured by him.

EXT. FARM FIELD - DAY

Zoe, Martha, Sarah and MAX are shooting bottles in the

woods.

Zoe shoots and hits a bottle. He comes up behind Zoe,

wraps his arms around her, kisses her neck and gropes her

breasts. She moves his hands away. Sarah watches on.

Max takes the gun out of her hand and fires several

shots. He misses the bottles.

He loads another round, aims, shoots, and hits a bottle.

Max wraps his hands around hers so she is firmly gripping

the gun.

Patrick is walking towards them carrying a sac. Martha

fires a few shots and misses.

She fires five powerful shots quickly, one shatters. A

smile grows on martha's face.

Martha nods. Patrick opens a sac and lets 2 cats out.

Patrick lifts Martha's hand so the gun is pointing at

Max. Max is frozen, he smiles awkwardly.

Max is confused, he gets embarrassed.

Max stops. Martha drops the gun down to her waist.

Martha is shook up. She does not fire the gun.

Zoe takes the gun out of Martha's hand. The gun goes off.

Martha and Max jump. Zoe shot the cat without blinking.

She hands the gun back to Martha.

A gun shot goes off. They all look up. Max looks

mortified, he has shot the other cat.

Max tosses the gun and walks away.

INT. FARM HAY LOFT - NIGHT

Martha looks for Max. She finds him in the hay loft.

Martha takes the bottle out from under a hay bale.

Max leans up and tries to kiss her. Martha stops him. She

hugs him instead.

EXT. LARGE EXPENSIVE COUNTRY HOUSE - NIGHT

A rock is hurled onto the roof of the house. THUMP. It

rolls down and off into the yard. Flood lights shine up

at a beautiful large country home.

THREE PEOPLE run through the yard, dashing through the

light and back into the shadows.

It is Martha, Watts, and Zoe, hurls another rock onto the

roof.

A man inside comes to the window.

Zoe picks up a rock and throws it onto the roof. The man

in the window walks towards his front door. Watts leads

Martha towards the house.

The man in the house comes out of his front door, walks

around the side of his house and looks up to see what's

hitting the roof. He leaves the front door open. Watts

and Martha creep into the house.

INT. EXPENSIVE COUNTRY HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Martha and Watts walk through the house. They sneak past

a living room where a woman watches television.

INT. EXPENSIVE COUNTRY HOUSE DINING ROOM - CONTINUOUS

There are two place settings at the dinning room table

and two candles burning in vintage, steel candle holders.

Watts blows out the candles, pours wax on the table and

lays the candles down. He steals the candle holders.

There is a large painting on the wall. He motions for

Martha to help him. They get on either side and dismount

the painting, then lay it face up on the floor.

They hear the man come inside and talk to his wife.

They continue to creep through the house, into the

kitchen and out the back door.

INT. FARM HOUSE - NIGHT

Martha, Watts, Zoe, Max and a few others have sex with

each in the same room.

Patrick walks down stairs and sits quietly in the corner

watching them.

INT. LAKE HOUSE / MARTHA'S BEDROOM - NIGHT

Martha lies awake in her room. She hears a car outside.

She creeps to her window and peeks out. She can't see

what kind of car it is. It leaves the lights and engine

on for a moment, then it shuts off. No one gets out. She

is frozen with fear. She builds up courage then leaves

her room.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks through the dark lake house, looking out the

windows trying to see if anyone is coming, almost as if

she is standing guard. She is trembling with fear.

A dark figure crosses from one room to another behind

her. She freezes, turns and holds her breath.

The man walks out of the room. Martha screams. It's Ted.

They take a moment to calm down.

Martha thinks about it.

He takes a couple of beers out of the fridge.

INT. LAKE HOUSE LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Ted sits on one end of the couch, Martha on the other

end. He wears his robe and drinks a beer. He glances over

at Martha who is lost in the movie, laughing.

Martha lies down. He offers her a pillow. She raises her

head and he puts it under.

INT. LAKE HOUSE LIVING ROOM - MORNING

Lucy walks into the living room to find Martha curled up

on the couch next to Ted. The TV is on and there are

three empty beer bottle on the table.

Lucy is furious. She picks up the bottles and walks into

the kitchen, being sure to make as much noise as she can.

Ted and Martha wake up. Martha sits up on the couch and

watches Ted walk into the kitchen.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - CONTINUOUS

Lucy puts on the kettle. Ted comes into the kitchen and

opens the fridge.

Lucy walks away.

Ted follows her into their room.

INT. TED AND LUCY'S BATHROOM - CONTINUOUS

Ted and Lucy enter.

Beat.

Beat.

Lucy gets undressed and gets in the shower.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE ROAD - DAY

Ted runs.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Lucy sits on the steps overlooking the lake. She is

sneaking in a cigarette.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Martha stands below her bedroom window to see what's

hitting the roof at night. She turns and looks over to

the back road. The brown car is parked on the side road.

It is overcast. It looks like a storm is approaching.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks towards the car, her anger is building. As

she gets to the top of the road she picks up a rock and

throws it through the car window. Glass shatters

everywhere.

She picks up a loose shard of glass and scrapes a line on

the side of the car. She drops the glass and stares at

the mess for a moment before looking around to make sure

no one has seen her.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY

Martha looks out the window at the brown car with the

smashed window. It is raining.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT

Martha lies in bed. Something thumps on the roof. Martha

flinches. THUMP. THUMP. THUMP. She flintches with each

thump.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY

Martha helps Lucy clean the house.

The phone rings. It startles Martha.

Martha is frozen, watching the phone ring.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/TED AND LUCY'S BEDROOM - DAY

Lucy fixes Martha's hair and puts make up on her. Martha

sits passively like a doll.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE - DAY

Martha walks down the stairs, she looks beautiful. She is

wearing a long white dress, Lucy has done her hair and

make up. She is cautious as she descends.

Guests have arrived. They are drinking cocktails and

talking in the house and on the back porch. Jazz plays

over speakers.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE BACK PORCH - CONTINUOUS

Martha walks outside. Lucy introduces her to some of her

friends. Martha looks like a zombie though, frozen at the

sight of so many strangers.

Martha continues to walk around the edge of the party

quietly observing everyone.

Something catches her eye.

She is studying the BARTENDER. She composes herself then

approaches him cautiously.

He puts out his hand to shake hers. She takes a half step

back and studies his face.

She points at the tequila.

She stands there looking dazed. She doesn't respond. He

just pours it. He is confused by her.

He hands her the tequila. She suddenly slaps it out of

his hand. The glass shatters on the ground.

Martha storms inside. Lucy follows her in.

She points to the bartender.

Lucy lowers Martha's pointing hand and tries to move her

away.

Ted approaches and helps guide Martha into their bedroom.

Lucy turns around to check the party. People are starting

to notice. Lucy and Ted force Martha back into their

bedroom. He closes the door.

INT. TED AND LUCY'S BEDROOM - CONTINUOUS

Martha is frantic, she begins to hyperventilate.

Lucy tries to hug her, Martha squirms free. Lucy hugs her

again and pulls her onto the bed, trying to get her to

calm.

Ted walks into the bathroom and gets pills. He forces

them down and makes Martha drink water.

She calms down. She falls back onto the bed.

Ted and Lucy look exhausted.

INT. LARGE EXPENSIVE COUNTRY HOUSE - NIGHT

Martha walks through a large house in the dark. She gets

to the front door and opens it letting in Katie, Zoe,

Watts and Patrick. They immediately scatter around the

house, looking in cupboards. Suddenly the lights turn on.

The man is confused.

The man goes to pick up the phone to call the police.

Watts stops, turns and get's in his face.

Watts, Zoe and Martha walk to the front door.

Patrick appears behind the man.

Martha walk outside. Patrick just stands there, he won't

leave. Katie and Zoe walk out of the other room and are

standing behind the Man. They don't move. He feels

surrounded.

Martha looks back but the view is blocked by the door. No

one knows what to do. The girls are looking to Patrick

but he's not doing anything. Suddenly Katie lunges at the

man and stabs him in the neck. Blood spurts out and she

stabs him again in the ribs.

They all run out.

INT. FARM BEDROOM/HALLWAY - NIGHT

Martha is in a small wood paneled room lying on a

mattress. She is stunned.

She looks through the open door to see Katie and Watts

washing in the bathroom.

Patrick enters the bedroom and sits on her bed with

Martha. Martha closes her eyes pretending to sleep.

Patrick runs his hands through her hair.

There is a long silence. Martha is clearly not okay.

INT. LAKE HOUSE/LUCY'S BEDROOM - MORNING

Martha wakes up. Lucy is sitting on the bed. She has

brought Tea. Martha sits up and takes a sip.

She smiles, lies down and curls up again. She is half

asleep.

Lucy gets up and leaves.

EXT. FARM - DAY

Men are moving vehicles into the garage. Women are

bringing the clothes inside off the clothes line. Martha

is helping with the garden. There is a sense of urgency

to close the farm.

Max is in the hayloft trying to close the loft door. He

slips and falls 30 feet to the ground. Martha rushes over

to him. He is in pain. Watts comes out of the barn.

They help him up and he falls. He cant put pressure on

his leg and he seems to have a concussion.

EXT. FARM BASEMENT DOORWAY - DAY

Everyone files into the basement except for Patrick,

Watts and Katie. They stand at the top of the stairs

talking.

INT. FARM HOUSE BASEMENT - CONTINUOUS

INT. FARM HOUSE BASEMENT - NIGHT

Everyone is sleeping. Max is curled up in the corner.

Martha walks over to him and wakes him. There is vomit in

the corner.

She shakes her head.

EXT. FARM - EVENING

Katie rings the dinner bell. Martha walks out of the

house holding a large pot of soup. She walks it through

the courtyard into the shed where everyone gathers to eat

dinner.

Everyone from the farm stops work and walks towards the

shed. It looks like more people are there than before,

there are several new faces in the crowd.

INT. FARM HOUSE - DAY

Martha is cleaning the house. The phone rings, she picks

it up. A young girl's voice is on the other end.

There is something written on the wall Martha reads.

Martha signals to a girl in the kitchen to go outside.

Martha writes JANE HELLER on a list of names on the wall.

Some of them have been scratched out.

Watts comes inside.

Watts hangs up. He and Martha have a quiet exchange and

Watts walks away.

Martha just stands there quietly.

INT. FARM HOUSE KITCHEN - EVENING

Martha cooks with Katie.

Martha sneaks a bite of bread. Katie whacks her in the

ear with a wooden spoon. A slight ringing remains

throughout the scene.

INT. LAKE HOUSE KITCHEN - NIGHT

Martha turns her head to see Lucy instead of Katie.

Martha is at the lake house cooking with Lucy.

Beat.

Lucy hands water and some pills to Martha. Martha takes

the pills, walks into the other room and collapses on the

couch in front of the television.

Ted walks into the kitchen. Martha listens from the

couch.

He reaches out and holds her hand.

Lucy goes back to chopping.

INT. FARM/BEDROOM - DAY

Martha and Zoe sit in bed.

Martha is upset with how cold Zoe is.

INT. FARM HOUSE BATHRROM - LATER

Martha sits in the bathroom, knees pulled up to her chest

as she rests on the edge of the bathtub.

Someone knocks at the door. She pretends not to be in

there. There is another gentle know.

Martha unlocks the door for Zoe. Patrick bursts in, slams

the door and corners Martha and yells at her.

Patrick calms down. He sits.

Martha is upset, like a trained animal, she runs back to

his side, sits next to him and rests her head on his

shoulder.

He runs his hand through her hair.

He puts his hand on the inside of her thigh.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - NIGHT

Martha wakes up on the couch confused, she sees a man

standing over her. She quickly pushes him up, jumps over

tyhe back of the couch and runs away.

The man is Ted. He follows her, trying to calm her down

but she is in a blind state of panic.

She runs to the stairs. He follows her. She trips. He

goes to see if she is okay. She kicks him. He falls down

the stairs.

The lights turn on. Lucy comes out of the bedroom to see

Ted at the bottom of the stairs. She rushes over to him.

Ted gets up slowly.

Ted pushes Lucy off of him.

Martha starts crying, she becomes hysterical. Lucy is

irate, she runs up the stairs and confronts Martha.

Martha backs away.

Lucy's anger is building.

Martha shakes her head with a severe look of fear in her

eyes.

Lucy doesn't know what else to do, she can see Martha is

too far gone.

There is a long moment of silence.

Lucy walks away.

Lucy stops at the bottom of the stairs.

Lucy freezes, she tries to stay calm but bursts into

tears. There is a long, tense silence. Lucy dries her

eyes.

Martha shakes her head.

Lucy walks away, Martha is frozen on the stairs.

INT. LAKE HOUSE - NEXT DAY

Martha walks through the house. All of the luggage is

packed and sitting by the front door.

Ted sits on the couch eating a sandwich and drinking a

beer.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE BACK YARD - CONTINUOUS

It is an overcast, unusually cold Labor Day. Lucy works

in the garden.

Martha looks into the back of the flower bed and notices

footprints.

Martha turns and walks down to the water.

EXT. LAKE HOUSE DOCK - DAY

Martha stands on the dock. She strips down to her

underwear and dives in.

Martha swims out into the lake. She drops under the water

and out of sight, a burst of bubbles pop up to the

surface. A few seconds pass by and she is not coming up.

Suddenly she breaks back through the water and gasps for

air.

She looks around at the thick woods and a handful of nice

homes that appear to be empty now. No one else is

swimming.

Martha sees a scruffy MAN sitting on a neighboring dock,

he seems familiar. He is in his mid twenties, his jeans

are rolled up and his feet dangle in the water. His shirt

is slung over his shoulder and he smokes a cigarette. He

looks directly at Martha. They make eye contact.

He finishes his smoke, throws the cigarette in the water,

puts on his shirt and just sits there.

Martha swims back to the house.

INT. TED'S CAR - DAY

Martha sits in the back seat of Ted and Lucy's car. Ted

drives and Lucy sits up front. They drive up the driveway

and turn out onto the road. Ted and Lucy talk. Martha

gets a concerned look on her face. Ted slams on the

breaks.

The MAN from the dock walks past the car. They almost hit

him. As they drive away, Martha turns to see him get into

the a brown car, start the engine and drive. The car

drives behind Ted's car.

Martha looks forward for a long moment, then turns back

again to see that he is still there.

She is frozen with fear, she thinks about saying

something but then stops herself. Instead she sits in

silence.

