FADE IN:

CLOSE on a Polaroid of a dimly lit COUPLE locked in a sexual

embrace. We cannot see their faces.

Our view travels sensuously down the Woman's naked torso to

find the Man's head buried between her legs.

Our view moves back up to the Woman's breasts.

EARL BROOKS' reflection in a mirror. Earl, in his 40's, has

on a tuxedo. He's in front of a sink in a Public Bathroom and

he's whispering to his image.

Picking up speed against the hunger in his head:

From far away comes the sound of applause.

INT. BALLROOM - NIGHT

MEN in tuxedos and WOMEN in gowns.

Mr. Brooks is seated at one of the front tables with his

wife, EMMA, also 40's.

CONTINUED:

The audience's hands are coming together for what a MAN at

the microphone has just said.

Mr. Brooks is smiling but not clapping; and although his lips

don't move we can hear:

The Man at the microphone raises his arms to quiet the

Audience.

Everyone laughs.

Mr. Brooks kisses Emma, stands and after accepting

congratulations along the way, arrives at the podium.

Applause and laughter from the Audience.

EXT. STREET - NIGHT

A silver Lexus LS 430 glides past us.

INT. LEXUS N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks is driving. Emma is in the passenger seat. They're

holding hands.

Mr. Brooks is only listening to his Wife with one ear and

underneath what she is saying we can barely hear:

Mr. Brooks doesn't rise to the bait.

As she continues, we look at Mr. Brooks and Emma's voice

fades to a murmur.

CONTINUED:

In the back seat, a Man leans out from behind Mr. Brooks's

head. This is MARSHALL. He's 50 plus.

Emma can neither see nor hear him. Marshall exists only in

Mr. Brooks's mind.

Emma feels Mr. Brooks's distance.

Mr. Brooks pulls himself back into the moment.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. ICE CREAM PARLOR N NIGHT

In a booth, Mr. Brooks and Emma are sharing a Sundae. Mr.

Brooks steals a look at the Arthur Murray dance class that is

taking place behind the full-length windows fronting the

second floor of the Building across the street.

Mr. Brooks turns his attention back to the Dancers and again

Emma's voice fades to a murmur.

Both Mr. Brooks and Marshall who is seated on the other side

of Emma are focused on one particular COUPLE.

The Man and Woman are not great dancers nor are they

especially attractive, but Mr. Brooks and Marshall are

fascinated with them.

Marshall leans forward and looking slyly around Emma at Mr.

Brooks:

CONTINUED:

Savoring the ice-cream, Mr. Brooks nods.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

Two story modern. Not ostentatious, but the elegance of the

line and the grounds say there's big money here.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - NIGHT

Through the door of the DRESSING AREA, Emma can be seen

taking off her evening clothes.

Hidden by the darkness on the other side of the bed, Mr.

Brooks is hunched forward on a chair, his head in his hands.

His bow tie is undone, but he's still wearing his Tuxedo. In

obvious torment, he is whispering to himself.

In the DRESSING AREA

Emma is putting on her sleep-wear. Mr. Brooks steps into the

doorway.

Mr. Brooks comes forward, puts his arms around Emma and hugs

her, then easing back, kisses her.

EXT. THE BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks exits the back door and starts down a path that

leads away from the house.

He passes through a screen of trees and arrives at a small

beautiful industrial-looking Building.

No windows except for a narrow strip on three sides just

under the edge of the roof.

Mr. Brooks lets himself in with a key.

INT. BUILDING N NIGHT

Exquisitely unique handmade handglazed bowls, vases, cups,

plates are scattered haphazardly on shelves and tables around

the room.

This is Mr. Brooks's CERAMICS STUDIO.

Mr. Brooks turns on the big industrial kiln and sets the

temperature, then in a series of quick cuts changes out of

his tuxedo into his work clothes which he selects from a

dozen identical pairs of khaki shirts and pants hanging in a

closet.

Below the pants and shirts are a dozen pairs of identical

leather work shoes. The windbreaker he puts on is also from a

dozen identical windbreakers.

He takes a set of car keys off a hook next to a door which

opens into a garage. Under the light is an older model non-

descript Toyota.

EXT. CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

The Toyota backs into an alley and with the garage door

closing behind it, pulls away.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Marshall is up front with Mr. Brooks.

CONTINUED:

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET N NIGHT

A mixture of modest houses and apartment buildings. Mr.

Brooks's Toyota is parked in the semi-dark cast by a tree.

We rise over the car, over the trees, over the houses to the

other side of the block and come down to find Mr. Brooks

working the lock on the side door of a small BUNGALOW.

He has on surgical gloves.

The pick is extracted, the handle turned. The door opens.

There's a chain.

Mr. Brooks removes a pair of bent rubber tipped forceps from

a pocket, inserts it in the chain, pulls the door to, gives

the tool a twist and gently pushes the door inward.

The chain has been released.

INT. BUNGALOW N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks quietly closes the door and holding his breath

stands very still and listens.

There's a faint indistinct sound coming from the recesses of

the house.

Mr. Brooks's feet glide out of the PANTRY. Now coming

slightly behind him is another pair of legs encased in dark

slacks.

Move up; the person in the black slacks is Marshall.

In the middle of the KITCHEN, the sound is now recognizable.

It's the moans of a Couple fucking. This disturbs Mr. Brooks,

he hesitates.

Marshall leans in and hisses fiercely in his ear.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks's spine stiffens and he's going forward again.

Entering a HALLWAY, he reaches into his jacket. When his hand

reappears it's inside a Ziplock bag, his fingers around the

butt of a silenced pistol.

He brings the hand and bag to his mouth and tightens the

Ziplock against his wrist.

The two Men arrive at a door that's slightly ajar. Behind it

the sounds of the love-making are becoming more intense.

Mr. Brooks nudges the door with his foot. It opens enough for

he and Marshall to see the Couple inside.

The Man and Woman from the Arthur Murray dance class are

naked on the bed.

As much as Mr. Brooks hates himself for it he loves watching.

He can now hear his heart beating in his ears.

He begins to breathe in unison with the Couple, but his

expression is distant almost clinical.

When the Couple climaxes, when they come, Mr. Brooks's face

goes blank.

On the bed the Woman rolls off her Partner and the two of

them lie there basking in the afterglow.

Behind them Mr. Brooks pushes the door fully open and slips

into the ROOM. They don't know he's there until he speaks.

Both the Man and Woman jump with surprise and look. The Woman

screams and scrabbles at the sheet to cover herself.

Then he sees the gun.

CONTINUED: (2)

In an attempt to get away, the Woman pushes herself back

against the wall. She can't take her eyes off Mr. Brooks and

she can't stop screaming.

POP! A hole appears above her left eye. The impact of Mr.

Brooks's High Velocity .22 slug bounces her head off the

wall. The screaming stops.

The Man opens his mouth and begins to shake. POP! The bullet

through his brain makes him instantly dead and he crumples

onto the Girl.

Mr. Brooks looks at what he's done. His nostrils flare at the

scent of death. Then he moves, he's got work to do. On his

way to the bed, the pistol goes into his pocket.

Mr. Brooks snaps a look.

The curtains of the bedroom window are open; and over half of

the Apartments in a four story Building on the other side of

an alley can see into this room.

Most of their windows are dark. And there's no one looking

out of the windows that are lit.

CONTINUED: (3)

He grabs a side of cloth in either hand and yanks the

curtains closed.

CLOSE on a Polaroid of the dance Couple in a sexual pose. The

attitude of the bodies is awkward and very reminiscent of the

ones in the Polaroid we opened the movie with.

INT. CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks is kneeling naked in front of the kiln where his

murder clothes are being reduced to ash.

Arranged on the floor are Polaroids of the dance Couple in

sexual positions.

As we look closer at the Photographs we realize by a smear of

blood here and there and the distortion of the limbs that

these tableaus were arranged after the Couple was killed.

One by one, Mr. Brooks picks up his souvenirs. He lingers

over the last image; and from where he's sitting on the edge

of a table:

Reluctantly Mr. Brooks throws the Polaroids into the fire of

the kiln.

He leaves. In the kiln, the Polaroids burst into flame.

EXT. MURDER HOUSE N AFTERNOON

The sunlight exposes its charm.

If it weren't for the Police tape, the UNIFORMED OFFICERS,

and the PLAINCLOTHES DETECTIVES, it looks like it would be a

cool place to live.

CONTINUED:

An OLDER DETECTIVE, an African-American, comes out on the

porch and calls to two other DETECTIVES who are drinking

coffee on the lawn:

A Uniformed Cop standing guard at the tape:

EXT. ATWOOD'S CAR N AFTERNOON

Special Detective TRACY ATWOOD, somewhere in her 30's, is

behind the wheel. The door is open.

By the expression on her face we might guess that Detective

Atwood has simply forgotten to get out of the car.

On the seat next to her is a copy of the Chicago Tribune. The

headline of a middle article on the first page reads: THE

HANGMAN ESCAPES.

Move up to Atwood's face. The Older Detective followed by the

Younger Detective approaches.

Atwood doesn't look at the Detectives for a long beat and

when she does her expression is not friendly.

CONTINUED:

As she gets out of the car, the Men notice the bandages on

her wrists and falling into step with her on the way to the

house.

Atwood holds up her hands to reveal the extent of the

bandages.

The Young Detective laughs. Atwood whirls on him.

Atwood sticks her finger into the Young Detective's chest.

Atwood turns and leaves the Men.

They catch up to Atwood who has squatted down to examine the

lock on the front door.

CONTINUED: (2)

She enters the house.

INT. MURDER HOUSE N AFTERNOON

From the way Atwood looks at her surroundings as she crosses

the Living Room we get the feel that this Woman misses

nothing.

Detective Snyder points her down the Hall toward the Bedroom

and follows.

Atwood arrives in the doorway of the BEDROOM where the

murders took place and stops.

The Bodies of the dance Couple are now on the floor. The Man

is propped up against the bed in a sitting position. The

Woman has her head in the Man's crotch.

Almost like Mr. Brooks, Atwood's nostrils flare, but in

Atwood's case it's not the scent of death that arouses her

but it's like she's searching for the scent of her prey.

In a glance she memorizes the Room, then steps inside.

INT. BEDROOM N AFTERNOON

The Crime Scene TECHNICIANS shift to accommodate Atwood's

inspection.

Snyder points to a bare space of wall above the bed. Atwood

leans in to look at two bloody 'thumbprints' placed side by

side.

There are two holes gouged into the plaster of the wall.

Atwood unfolds and after another look around the room goes to

the window and cracks the curtains.

There's the four story Apartment Building across the alley,

its windows staring down at her.

CONTINUED:

Atwood tries the cord, the curtains are stuck.

She returns her attention to the murder scene.

She doubles back and cracks the curtains for another look at

the four story Apartment Building.

Atwood nods and turns back to the bodies.

She reaches down and runs a hand over the carpet.

A puzzled Snyder follows her out of the room.

INT. PANTRY N AFTERNOON

Atwood opens a service closet. There's the Vacuum Cleaner.

CONTINUED:

Atwood unzips the cover. There is no bag inside.

EXT. ALLEY N AFTERNOON

Detective Atwood is standing on an empty capped plastic

gallon milk carton looking over the fence into the back yard

of the Murder House. Snyder has his hand on her back to

steady her.

He releases her. She hops down and directs her attention at

the four story Apartment Building.

A MAN comes out from behind the next door fence and strides

purposefully toward them.

She accepts the official looking document being offered.

CONTINUED:

INT. CHURCH HALL N DAY

An AA Meeting is getting started. Mr. Brooks is one of the

ASSEMBLED. The LEADER steps into the semicircle of Men and

Women.

A WOMAN comes forward.

She rejoins the circle. Mr. Brooks separates himself from the

Others.

When he rejoins the circle, Marshall is there to greet him.

CONTINUED:

EXT. INDUSTRIAL SECTION OF CHICAGO N DAY

A Cab arrives at the Front Entrance of the BROOKS BOX

FACTORY, a long three story brick Building.

A YOUNG WOMAN, 19, is dropped off along with an assortment of

luggage and boxes.

INT. BROOKS BOX FACTORY N DAY

It's loud. We follow a thin piece of cardboard as one machine

deals it off the bottom of a stack into the maw of another

machine.

That machine prints one side of the cardboard blue.

It is handed off to the third machine which cuts the flaps.

The fourth machine folds and glues those flaps and spits the

piece of cardboard out onto a conveyor belt as a box.

Wearing safety glasses and ear protectors along with his

business suit, Mr. Brooks picks up the box and hands it to

one of three similarly attired MEN, standing nearby.

CONTINUED:

As Mr. Brooks talks the Men pass the box between them.

A surprised Mr. Brooks grabs a quick look at the PA Speaker,

then continues.

INT. RECEPTION AREA - BROOKS BOX FACTORY N DAY

On his way through to his office, Mr. Brooks smiles absently

at a MAN waiting on the couch. The pleasant-looking Man in

his early 30's, nods.

Mr. Brooks stops at his SECRETARY's desk.

INT. MR. BROOKS' OFFICE N DAY

CONTINUED:

The 19 year old Girl we saw arrive by cab stands up and

throws her arms around Mr. Brooks.

Mr. Brooks kisses Jane on the forehead and goes to sit at his

desk.

Sitting on the couch:

CONTINUED: (2)

There's a knock on the door.

Sunday, the secretary, comes in and crossing to Mr. Brooks:

She hands Mr. Brooks a letter-size envelope.

CONTINUED: (3)

She leaves. Slicing the flap of the envelope, Mr. Brooks

picks up with Jane.

Mr. Brooks can now see the contents of the envelope.

Two snapshot-size PHOTOS taken with a high speed digital

camera. One shows the right side of Mr. Brooks's cheek.

He is in no way identifiable, but that blur of flesh appears

to be looking at the dead dance Couple.

The second Photo is a clear shot of Mr. Brooks closing the

curtains with the dead dance Couple behind him.

Neither Mr. Brooks's voice or his face betray the enormity of

what he's looking at.

CONTINUED: (4)

Mr. Brooks allows himself a slight smile.

Mr. Brooks presses his Intercom.

He picks up the phone and holds it out to Jane.

INT. HALLWAY - BROOKS BOX FACTORY N DAY

Mr. Brooks comes around the corner. He's raving at Marshall

who's walking beside him.

CONTINUED:

A different angle in the same hallway shows Mr. Brooks

walking away from us. A passing EMPLOYEE crosses him. The Men

nod to each other. Marshall is nowhere in sight.

And then we're back to the original angle and Marshall is

again in the picture.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - BROOKS BOX FACTORY N DAY

The Man from the Reception Area is nervously admiring a

display of Mr. Brooks's ceramic pieces. He turns at the sound

of the door opening behind.

Mr. Brooks motions him to a seat.

CONTINUED:

From the end of the table, Marshall cackles a laugh.

CONTINUED: (2)

Mr. Smith who has grown uneasy under Mr. Brooks's stare

swallows:

Mr. Smith nods 'yes'.

CONTINUED: (3)

Mr. Brooks stands up and opens the door.

On his way out, Mr. Smith nods. Mr. Brooks closes the door.

His chin drops on his chest and he sighs.

EXT. DOWNTOWN CHICAGO N DAY

Detective Atwood comes out of the CROWD on the sidewalk and

enters a Highrise.

INT. CONFERENCE ROOM - LAW OFFICES N DAY

Atwood and her ATTORNEYS, a gray-haired Man in his 60's, and

an Asian Woman about the same age as Atwood are on one side

of the table.

CONTINUED:

JESSE, Atwood's soon to be ex-husband, very handsome,

slightly younger than Atwood, and SHEILA, his attractive

divorce lawyer, sit across from them.

Atwood is not happy with this. The Attorney slides a sheet of

paper to Sheila. She turns it over. On it is written:

$750,000 -.

She holds up the front page of the Chicago Tribune. "THE

HANGMAN ESCAPES" story is circled in red.

CONTINUED: (2)

CONTINUED: (3)

The door closes behind them.

INT. APARTMENT N NIGHT

Moonlight seeps around the blinds to reveal Mr. Smith asleep

in bed.

Beyond the open BEDROOM door down the hall is only darkness

until the eruption of illumination from a penlight

momentarily outlines the figure of a Man.

Then we're looking at what the penlight sees.

A keyring. Hands in surgical gloves isolate the - safety

deposit key - and press it into a soft wax block where it

leaves its impression. The light goes off.

In the BEDROOM at the end of the hallway, Mr. Smith begins to

snore. The Figure coasts silently toward the sound.

Mr. Smith's face is sideways on the pillow. The snores and a

little drool burbles out of the corner of his mouth.

WHOOMP!! The impact of something landing on the bed bounces

Mr. Smith upright and awake.

The beam from the penlight hits him in the face. He raises

his hands to shield his eyes.

The penlight leaves Mr. Smith and Mr. Brooks places it

deliberately under his own chin casting long sinister shadows

up his face. He's sitting on the bed next to Mr. Smith.

CONTINUED:

The penlight goes off. There's total silence.

He squints into the black.

Finally he gathers the courage to extend a shaky hand. The

bedside lamp goes on. The room is empty. Cautiously Mr. Smith

swings his legs out of bed and stands up.

He forces himself to go to the door and from there curls his

arm around the jamb into the darkness.

The HALL light is dazzling.

A peek into the BATHROOM shows there is nobody there. He

continues on into the LIVING ROOM.

His camera equipment is on the table. The tripod is still set

up. There is no sign of Mr. Brooks.

Mr. Smith eyes the front door. It's closed and the 'security

chain' is in place!!

Another quick scan of the room. It sure seems that he's

alone.

He opens the front door the length of the chain and looks up

and down the hallway. It's empty. Slowly he closes the door.

Standing in the light of his LIVING ROOM, Mr. Smith is more

scared and strangely more excited than he's ever been in his

life.

INT. BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

In a robe and pajamas, Mr. Brooks comes down the HALLWAY

carrying a glass of milk. The door to his Daughter's ROOM is

partly open. By the nightlight in the plug at the head of the

bed he can see she's asleep.

INT. BEDROOM N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks walks to the bed, leans over and kisses his

Daughter on the cheek.

He leaves.

EXT. CHICAGO - MORNING

The early rays of the sun are moving down the tall buildings.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N MORNING

A garbage truck is picking up the trash.

INT. BROOKS HOUSE N MORNING

Dressed for work and a smile on his face, Mr. Brooks comes

down the stairs.

In the BREAKFAST ROOM, the mood is decidedly different. His

Wife and Daughter are leaning against opposite walls staring

at the floor.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks looks directly at his Daughter.

CONTINUED: (2)

Mr. Brooks's eyes find Emma's. Almost imperceptibly she

shakes her head 'no'.

INT. GARAGE - BROOKS HOUSE N MORNING

Walking to the Lexus, Mr. Brooks notices Marshall waiting for

him on the passenger side.

CONTINUED:

INT. CRIME LAB N AFTERNOON

Large and small Color Photographs pinned to a corkboard

create a Collage of the dance Couple murder scene.

Standing in front of this is CAPTAIN LISTER, a tall slim open-

faced Woman in her mid-fifties, and the lead Crime Scene

Technician we saw earlier at the Murder House.

CONTINUED:

He's gone.

CONTINUED: (2)

CONTINUED: (3)

INT. HALLWAY N CRIME LAB N AFTERNOON

Atwood is waiting for an elevator. It arrives. The doors

open. The car is empty.

INT. ELEVATOR N AFTERNOON

Atwood gets in and presses the key for her destination, then

slumps into a corner for the ride. The doors close. The

elevator begins to move.

All at once Atwood screams. Her pent-up anger and frustration

rip the air and she goes nuts.

She punches the wall of the elevator, kicks it, throws

herself to the other side, bangs her head against that wall,

punches it, kicks it, all the while screaming.

Then the tears come. The screams stop and she settles upright

against the back wall, where she strikes her chest repeatedly

with the flat of her closed hand.

EXT. MURDER HOUSE N NIGHT

It's raining. The yellow Police tape that still circles the

yard snaps in the wind.

CONTINUED:

Up the driveway, out of sight of all the other homes, there's

a movement at the side door of the house.

A closer inspection reveals that it's Detective Atwood. From

under her umbrella she studies her surroundings and as if

she's speaking to the killer, she speaks to herself.

With a key she lets herself in.

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

Parked against the curb opposite the driveway of the Murder

House is an old green Pontiac Convertible with the top up.

The driver's window is down and from inside a WOMAN, late

20's, is watching the house.

INT. MURDER HOUSE N NIGHT

Atwood stops in the PANTRY almost in the exact spot where Mr.

Brooks stopped.

The quiet is filled by the rain drumming on the roof. The

wind rattles the windows.

She steps into the KITCHEN. On the way across she bumps into

a chair.

CONTINUED:

These musings take her through the LIVING ROOM to the

entrance of the HALLWAY where she pauses and looks both ways.

She steps into the HALL.

She continues down the HALL to the BEDROOM.

She opens the door and goes in.

She turns on the overhead light.

She turns on a bedside light and goes back to the door and

turns off the overhead.

If the dance Couple were on the bed and their blood was not

on the wall, the room would look exactly the way it did when

Mr. Brooks said 'hello'.

CONTINUED: (2)

She's at the window now, feeling the curtains.

She separates the fabric and looks out the rain-streaked

window at the four story building across the alley. There are

lights on in almost all the apartment windows.

She allows the fabric to drop back into place and turns to

look at the bed.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING N NIGHT

Moving slowly across a neutral colored wall.

A door is closed. We come to the corner and are looking down

a HALLWAY at Atwood coming toward us. We move to her and

arrive just as she raises her fist to knock.

Before she can, the door opens and she and Mr. Smith who is

on his way out of his Apartment are surprised that the other

one is suddenly there. Each one takes a half step back.

Phwap! The manila envelope that was wedged under Mr. Smith's

left arm hits the floor.

CONTINUED:

Through the open door, Atwood can see Mr. Smith's camera on a

table and the collapsed tripod leaning against the wall.

Mr. Smith puts on his thinking expression and pauses a little

bit before:

He moves into the Hallway closing the door behind him.

CONTINUED: (2)

Watching him walk away amid the crinkle of his raincoat,

Detective Atwood, maybe because of her woman's intuition or

maybe because she's a good cop, wonders what is in that

manila envelope under his arm.

The thought is gone almost as soon as it comes and she faces

about to the next door.

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

Hunched against the rain, Mr. Smith is acutely aware of the

traffic. His eyes strain to see the Occupants of each passing

car. He doesn't give a second thought to the older non-

descript Toyota parked against the far curb.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks is in the driver's seat. Marshall is in the back.

They're both tracking the progress of Mr. Smith.

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

Honk!! Honk!! Mr. Smith looks around. He's not sure that

sound was for him. But when the Toyota honks again and

flashes it's lights, Mr. Smith waves and splashes to the

center of the street.

CONTINUED:

Even though he stops to let it pass, a car sounds its horn

and swerves to avoid him. Mr. Smith crosses behind the Toyota

and opens the passenger door.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Mr. Smith flops into the seat.

Mr. Smith fumbles with the buttons and zipper on his

raincoat.

He comes up with the manila envelope.

Mr. Brooks takes it and hefts it.

Mr. Brooks favors him with a wolfish smile.

CONTINUED:

His hand comes forward with a card.

Marshall snaps forward from the back seat.

Mr. Brooks pinches the rectangle of paper away from Mr. Smith

for a closer view.

Mr. Smith interrupts Mr. Brooks's focus on Detective Atwood's

card.

Mr. Brooks slips the envelope under the seat and starts the

car.

CONTINUED: (2)

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

The Toyota enters the traffic.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING N NIGHT

An older WOMAN in a Stewardess uniform is standing in the

doorway of her apartment. Atwood is in front of her in the

HALL.

CONTINUED:

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks' Toyota is cruising in the flow of traffic.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

A neutral-colored PICKUP swerves out of the next lane into

Mr. Brooks' lane.

Mr. Brooks is forced to slam on his brakes to avoid running

up the PICKUP'S tailpipe.

HOONKK!!! Mr. Brooks angrily lays on the horn.

The brake lights of the PICKUP flash in response causing Mr.

Brooks to brake again.

CONTINUED:

The PICKUP makes a right onto a side street. Mr. Brooks

follows.

Mr. Brooks begins to slow down.

EXT. FOUR STORY APARTMENT BUILDING - NIGHT

Detective Atwood is on her way out the Outer Door when the

hair on the back of her neck stands on end.

CONTINUED:

Footsteps can be heard running toward her through the rain.

Her hand goes under her jacket and comes out holding a Glock

9mm.

She sidesteps out of the light into the grayness at the edge

of the doorway.

Now she sees the RUNNER. A hood hides the face. She can't

tell if it's a Man or a Woman.

Detective Atwood thumbs the Glock's safety to the 'off'

position.

The Runner passes, white breath coming from an unseen mouth.

She waits while the Figure recedes, then with the gun still

in hand she fishes into a pocket for a cell phone and heads

in the opposite direction.

A finger speedials a number. After a second ring a:

The phone is shut, the umbrella unfurled and the darkness

swallows her up.

EXT. MINI MART N NIGHT

The neutral-colored Pickup is parked in front. The DRIVER

gets out.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

It has stopped at the curb just beyond the Entrance to the

Mini-Mart parking lot.

Mr. Brooks and Mr. Smith watch the DRIVER come around the

front of another car before entering the store.

The light reveals the Driver to be a tall middle-age preppie

guy with close cropped dark hair and dark-rimmed glasses.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Smith does.

Mr. Smith opens his eyes and grins sheepishly.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. INDOOR POOL N NIGHT

The lane lines are in place.

Detective Atwood is the only one in the water. Up and down

she goes with a long smooth stroke flipping the turns. She's

not swimming for pleasure, she's working out.

The underwater lights cast rippling shadows on the walls and

ceiling and since they are the only illumination, the room

feels spooky.

Atwood's fingers touch the wall. She raises her head to check

her time, then takes off her goggles.

Hanging onto the gutter she tries to catch her breath, lowers

herself under the surface, blows a lungful of bubbles, comes

up to face LARRY, a Man slightly younger than she is, in a

beautiful suit, perched on the edge of the deck looking down

at her.

He has a dress on a hangar over one shoulder and a pair of

shoes dangling from the fingers of his other hand.

She lifts herself to him and they kiss.

INT. EXCLUSIVE SUPPER CLUB N NIGHT

Detective Atwood and Larry are at a balcony table overlooking

a well-populated dance floor. The Music is 40's and 50's

performed by a live BAND.

CONTINUED:

Atwood smiles, her fingers find Larry's and they intertwine.

The view floats over the balcony.

As it slowly drops, the PEOPLE on the dance floor, Couple by

Couple, disappear until there are only three Couples left,

one of them is Atwood and Larry. Her head is on his shoulder.

It's a slow dance.

Larry is very good and wherever he leads, Atwood easily

follows. The lights begin to dim and we move in.

Larry touches his lips to Atwood's neck. She arches back and

he kisses her neck again and again.

CONTINUED: (2)

His lips move up and find hers, and we are now close on the

kiss. Gently the lips separate and we slowly retreat.

Looking into her eyes, Larry traces her lips with a finger,

then replaces that finger with his tongue.

His lips brush a cheek, down her neck to where it meets her

shoulder, his teeth close softly on the muscle, by now we are

far enough away to realize that Atwood and Larry have no

clothes on and we are:

INT. HALLWAY - DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CONDOMINIUM N NIGHT

What light there is, is coming from a room we can't see.

Larry nibbles at Atwood collarbone, kisses a breast, strokes

his hands down her sides. She shivers. He brushes his lips

back and forth across her stomach and then down to where the

flesh of her belly meets her pubic hair.

She's watching all of this in a mirror on the opposite wall.

Then he sinks to his knees and buries his head between her

legs. From low in her throat, Atwood moans. We lose sight of

the Couple as we move around a corner.

INT. BEDROOM N DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CONDOMINIUM - NIGHT

It's dark. Atwood is propped up against the headboard, the

sheet pulled up over her breasts.

The door to the BATHROOM opens. Larry dressed in his suit,

minus the tie, comes out, kneels on the bed and kisses her.

CONTINUED:

EXT. MR. BROOKS' CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

The rain is muffled by the trees.

Move slowly toward the Building then up the side to peek

through the narrow window that circles just below the roof

line.

In the center of the room, the kiln relieves the darkness

with a yellow red glow whose rim touches a slash of white

light coming from under a door tucked in a corner.

INT. CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

We creep through the white light across the floor that's

littered with splashes of paint and smears of clay to the

office door and peer under it.

In front of us are chair casters and two bare feet and legs.

We tip toe under the door.

INT. OFFICE - CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

It's crammed with file cabinets. Sketches for pottery pieces

are taped to the walls along with photos of Mr. Brooks, Jane

and Emma.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks, clad only in a T-shirt and underwear, is sitting

in front of a computer. Marshall, dressed as he usually is,

is in a chair at his side.

They are both staring at the monitor where on one side of the

screen is Detective Atwood's Police ID photo, on the other

side of the screen, Mr. Brooks is scrolling through her

personnel file.

Mr. Brooks taps a key that minimizes Atwood's file then drags

it to the right hand corner. In the middle of a key stroke it

hits him:

CONTINUED: (2)

Tap, tap, tap. Jesse Vialo's Driver's license comes up.

He restores Atwood's file. Tap, tap, tap, tap. Stop. The Men

study the screen then look at each other.

CONTINUED: (3)

INT. SUBURBAN STARBUCKS N MORNING

At a table the Asian Attorney is going over a brief. There

are two foamy coffees in to-go cups in front of her.

Detective Atwood arrives at the table.

She reaches out, the Women shake hands.

CONTINUED:

Atwood stands up with her coffee.

CONTINUED: (2)

The Asian Attorney also stands and gathering her papers and

coffee.

Atwood nods and opens the front door then follows the

Attorney out.

EXT. SUBURBAN STARBUCKS N MORNING

She starts to walk away.

CONTINUED:

EXT. SIDEWALK N MORNING

Atwood strides toward her car. The PEDESTRIAN traffic is

light. It's too early for the stores to be open.

Up ahead a BROWN VAN is idling at the curb, the sliding side

door is open. Atwood can see inside. Empty except for some

furniture blankets.

The Person in the Driver's seat turns to look into the back.

It's the Woman who was watching Atwood outside the Murder

House. Her hands are unseen in leather gloves.

She looks up and their eyes meet. Two strangers. The contact

is instantly broken.

Atwood takes a deep breath and smiles. After the rain, the

air is brisk and clean. It's good to be alive.

SLAM!!! Atwood is body-checked by a Man who springs out of

the recess of a doorway. His arms wrap around her, she's

lifted off her feet and the Man throws himself and her into

the Van.

INT. BROWN VAN - MORNING

Oooff!! The wind is knocked out of Atwood when she lands left

shoulder first on the furniture blankets, the Man on top of

her.

The Man is Thorton Meeks, the Hangman, six feet, a solid two

hundred pounds. He's also wearing tight leather gloves.

EXT. STREET N MORNING

The Brown Van accelerates fast away from the curb.

INT. BROWN VAN N MORNING

His body crushing hers, Meeks kisses Atwood's cheek.

He frees his right hand and pulls his gun.

CONTINUED:

He kisses her again and puts the gun to Atwood's head.

He raises up and straddles her.

With his left hand he fishes a pair of handcuffs from a back

pocket and snaps them on Atwood's right wrist.

He rolls Atwood on her back and with the chain of the

handcuff pulls her right arm toward her left.

All Meeks' talk has allowed Atwood to catch her breath and

suddenly she jerks her head up into the gun and screams at

the top of her lungs.

At the same time she pulls hard against the handcuff with her

right wrist. A startled Meeks is thrown off balance. The gun

comes away from Atwood's head.

Her left arm now free, Atwood swings her palm with all of her

might into Meeks' right ear. POP!! His eardrum breaks.

Aaaggh!! He instinctually reaches to cover the damaged ear

with his gun hand.

The Driver doubles around to see what's happening. From

outside, HOONNNKK!! The Driver's attention returns to the

road.

CONTINUED: (2)

Atwood swings again. This time she snags the barrel of the

gun and using it as a lever bends Meeks' hand back on the

wrist.

BLAM! The gun goes off. Neither one of them is hit.

At the same time Atwood pulls hard on the handcuff that Meeks

is holding in his left hand and twists into him. This

dislodges Meeks and he's off of her.

Snarling like animals they fight for the gun.

CRACK! Atwood's leverage breaks Meeks' trigger finger. His

grip loosens on the weapon. She pulls it out of his hand.

A quick push skitters it across the floor. It drops through

the open side door into the street.

Atwood rolls away and reaches for her ankle gun. Now it's

Meeks' turn. A sharp tug on the chain of the handcuff stalls

her motion.

He flicks his other arm and a switchblade is delivered into

his right hand. Snap!! The blade comes out. Atwood is

reaching again for her ankle gun. She sees the flash of metal

and flings her head back.

Luckily all she receives is a deep gash above her right eye.

Blood immediately begins to cascade over her brow.

Meeks grins and gives another sharp tug on the handcuff to

pull Atwood into the range of his knife.

With one foot Atwood kicks at him, with the other she pushes

off and propels herself backward to grab a handful of the

Driver's hair.

Atwood's weight hinges the Driver's head back until she's

looking at the ceiling. Her scream is equal parts pain and

surprise.

EXT. STREET N MORNING

The Brown Van veers into the on-coming traffic. The Driver of

the car dead ahead swerves. The Van solidly clips the rear of

that car.

INT. BROWN VAN - MORNING

The sudden deceleration of that impact slingshots Atwood and

Meeks forward. She hits the back of the Driver's seat.

CONTINUED:

Meeks has further to go. He loses his hold on the handcuffs

and smashes into the passenger seat.

Her right hand now free, Atwood scratches for the gun on her

hip.

EXT. STREET N MORNING

Careening across its lane, the Van sideswipes a parked car.

INT. BROWN VAN N MORNING

That impact rips Atwood's hand out of the Driver's hair and

sends her sliding on her knees toward the side door.

On her way she unclips her gun and is bringing it out of her

holster when Meeks who has managed to hang onto the passenger

seat sees this and slams a foot into her chest.

Atwood is launched backward out the side door.

EXT. STREET N MORNING

In slow motion Atwood flies through the air while at normal

speed the Van is leaving her behind.

SMASH! Butt first, Atwood hammers into the back window of a

parked car. The shattering glass breaks her fall.

Groggily she rolls out of the indentation. Gun still in hand

and blood covering one side of her face she slides off the

car to stand in the street.

The Van is nowhere in sight.

INT. EMERGENCY ROOM N DAY

Captain Lister is watching a DOCTOR sew up the gash on

Detective Atwood's forehead.

Detective Snyder comes in and hands a packet of photographs

to Atwood.

CONTINUED:

As Detective Atwood begins to go through the pictures.

Stretching out her arm to return the photos:

CONTINUED: (2)

She leaves.

EXT. DRUG STORE PARKING LOT N NIGHT

In the scattering of vehicles Mr. Brooks' Toyota is hidden in

plain sight in a row of cars.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Behind the wheel, Mr. Brooks is again wearing his Pottery-

Throwing clothes. Mr. Smith is in the passenger seat and

Marshall is leaning forward from the back.

They're all focused to varying degrees on the Entrance to the

store. Mr. Smith raises his watch for a look at the time.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Smith looks.

The silence returns.

All three Men idly observe an old green Pontiac convertible

with a frayed top and paint peeling, come into the Lot and

park two spaces away facing them. We saw this car last

watching Atwood from outside the Murder House.

The headlights go off.

The Driver's door opens. The Woman who was with Meeks in the

Van steps out and hurries toward the Drug Store.

She of course means nothing to Mr. Brooks but in the brief

seconds the domelight is on, he catches sight of the Man in

the passenger seat. A memory tickles his brain.

He turns to Marshall.

CONTINUED: (2)

Mr. Brooks cocks his head at the vague outline of Meeks.

Mr. Smith who, remember, cannot hear or see Marshall,

straightens up.

The Man they are waiting for is coming down the steps of the

store. On the way to his Pickup he takes off a Manager's

smock.

Mr. Brooks nods absently. The Drug Store Manager arrives at

his truck.

Marshall smiles.

CONTINUED: (3)

Mr. Brooks starts the car and puts it in reverse.

Mr. Brooks casts his eyes on the license plate of the car

Meeks is in.

EXT. DRUG STORE PARKING LOT N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks' Toyota leaves.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Mr. Smith sits stiffly. His expression hasn't changed.

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

The Toyota is part of the light traffic.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET N NIGHT

The Toyota comes into view around a corner and stops next to

the sidewalk.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

CONTINUED:

He gets out and with the door still open, turns back.

He shuts the door. Marshall and Mr. Brooks watch him walk

away.

EXT. RESIDENTIAL STREET N NIGHT

The Toyota U-turns, makes the corner and is lost from sight.

EXT. ALLEY - CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

The garage door opens and Mr. Brooks swings the Toyota

inside.

INT. GARAGE N CERAMICS STUDIO - NIGHT

Mr. Brooks steps out of the Toyota onto a sheet of plastic.

Two strides away is an industrial vacuum cleaner.

INT. TOYOTA N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks vacuums the passenger seat and dash and floor and

everything around it.

INT. GARAGE N CERAMICS STUDIO - NIGHT

Mr. Brooks removes his shoes and leaves them on the plastic,

then slips his feet into paper slippers.

With handiwipes he wipes down the outside of the passenger

door, in fact anything on that side Mr. Smith could have

touched.

He opens the door and wipes down the seat and the dash and

the console.

Back on the plastic, Mr. Brooks undresses. On top of his

clothes he drops the used handiwipes, the slippers and the

vacuum bag.

The corners of the plastic sheet are folded up, twisted

together and Zip-tied to create a nice neat package which Mr.

Brooks picks up and takes into the Ceramics Studio.

INT. SHOWER - CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks rinses off the lather under the spray.

INT. CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

The glow from 3000 degrees Fahrenheit is coming through the

window of the kiln.

INT. OFFICE - CERAMICS STUDIO N NIGHT

The Driver's license, complete with picture, of the Woman who

was with Meeks in the Drug Store parking lot, is up on the

computer screen.

Mr. Brooks, now back in his regular clothes, brings the

cursor down to the address. He scores this and drags it into

Yahoo Maps 'driving directions'.

A route is generated. Mr. Brooks brings the cursor up to

'Print' and clicks.

CONTINUED:

CLOSE on his Printer. The map is fed out and settles into the

tray.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N MORNING

An unmarked Police car stops on the gravel of the Turn-

Around. Two Plainclothes DETECTIVES get out and walk to the

front door.

The taller One rings the bell and they wait and then the door

is opened by Mr. Brooks.

In a flash he takes in the car and the way the Men are

dressed and although his face doesn't betray it, he knows

what they are.

The shorter One holds up a badge.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks looks at the card.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY N BROOKS HOUSE - MORNING

Marshall is walking alongside a very disturbed Mr. Brooks.

Mr. Brooks opens a door. The room that is revealed is a very

well equipped home GYM.

CONTINUED:

In sweats and wearing a Walkman, Emma is working out on an

Elliptical machine.

Mr. Brooks motions to her that he wants to talk. Emma takes

off the headphones and pauses the machine.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N DAY

There are now three cars plus the unmarked Police car in the

Turn-Around.

INT. BROOKS HOUSE N DAY

Everyone is in the LIVING ROOM.

CONTINUED:

Jane is on a couch flanked by her Mother and a LAWYER.

Standing behind them is a heavyset LAWYER and a YOUNG LAWYER.

We've never seen any of these Men before.

Facing this Group from the opposite couch are the two

Detectives. There are two tape recorders on the coffee table.

Mr. Brooks is in a chair off to one side watching everything.

For him the conversation is merely a burble of voices. He

studies his daughter while she answers a question.

She is unaware of his scrutiny. And finally all he can see

are her lips moving. Even the burble has faded to silence.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N DAY

The unmarked Police car with the two Detectives pulls away.

We move in on the front door. It opens. The Lawyers spill

out. Mr. Brooks shakes hands with the lawyer who was sitting

on the couch next to Jane.

He waves and re-enters the house.

INT. BROOKS HOUSE N DAY

Mr. Brooks shuts the door and turning, finds himself face to

face with Emma and Jane. The Women are both worried.

He and his Daughter look at each other. For a brief instant

each one tries to find what they hope to find in the other.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks smiles and folds the Girl into his arms.

Mr. Brooks kisses his daughter on the top of the head.

Jane bends her steps toward the stairs.

Emma takes her Husband's hand and after squeezing it follows

her Daughter. On the stairs Jane stops and looks back.

Jane resumes her journey up the stairs.

CLOSE on a water glass being filled from a tap.

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. KITCHEN N BROOKS HOUSE - DAY

With a shaky hand, Mr. Brooks raises the glass to his lips.

Sitting on the island behind him Marshall waits for Mr.

Brooks to gulp the glass dry.

Mr. Brooks puts his hands over his eyes and sobs, then wiping

away the tears:

CONTINUED:

CONTINUED: (2)

INT. CRIME LAB N DAY

A slide of what looks like enlarged grains of sand among

giant carpet fibers is projected onto a screen.

The Lead Crime Lab Technician:

The slide changes to an overhead schematic showing the

interior of the house where the dance Couple was murdered.

Detective Atwood and Detective Snyder are standing with Sigy

watching the presentation. Atwood has a bandage covering the

stitches over her eye.

The red dot indicates an area just outside the Kitchen and

just outside the Bedroom.

CONTINUED:

INT. MR. BROOKS' OFFICE N BROOKS BOX FACTORY - DAY

Mr. Brooks is standing behind his desk staring blankly at the

contents of his briefcase when Sunday, his Secretary, comes

in.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks doesn't immediately answer her, he's lost in

thought.

Remember; Sunday can neither see nor hear Marshall.

Mr. Brooks raises his head and looks at Sunday.

CONTINUED: (2)

The door closes behind her.

INT. CERAMICS STUDIO N DAY

With a hidden lever, Mr. Brooks lowers casters under the kiln

and rolls it aside to reveal a Combination Safe imbedded in

the concrete floor.

He spins the dial, opens the Safe and extracts four quadruple-

pocketed plastic sleeves which he lines up in front of

himself.

Each sleeve contains a Driver's License, two Credit cards and

cash.

The pictures on the Driver's Licenses are of Mr. Brooks, but

you wouldn't immediately recognize him because of the

disguises.

As he's trying to decide which of the four Identities would

be best for what he has in mind, Marshall comes forward to

look over his shoulder.

Mr. Brooks chooses the first sleeve and the third sleeve. The

other two go back into the Safe.

EXT. FIVE STORY GLASS BUILDING N DAY

It's in an Industrial Park.

Mr. Smith exits one of the doors and continues on into the

Parking Lot to a moderately expensive foreign car sitting in

a space identified by a sign which reads:

CONTINUED:

Mr. Baffert.

He squeezes the 'disarm' button on his key chain. The car

chirps twice and he opens the door. Bending his knees to get

in, he stops.

There is a section of Newspaper wedged in the steering wheel.

When his brain unlocks he straightens up and moving only the

top of his body, makes a quick recon of the surrounding area

and his back seat.

Nothing threatening seen, he eases into the seat. Slam! The

door is closed and locked.

INT. CAR N DAY

Gingerly, Mr. Smith removes the Newspaper. It folds open. On

the first page there are words circled in red.

As his eyes dart from one to the other we go in close on the

words and hear Mr. Brooks say them as Mr. Smith finds them.

Mr. Smith turns the page.

Turns the page.

Turns the page.

Mr. Smith refolds the Newspaper and throws it at the

passenger seat.

He inserts the key into the ignition.

RAP-RAP!! There's a sudden sharp KNOCK!!, on the Driver's

window.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Smith levitates off the seat!! Unable to breathe, he

turns.

Detective Atwood's face lowers into view.

All Mr. Smith can do is nod.

EXT. CAR N DAY

Atwood steps back as Mr. Smith gets out. Behind her,

Detective Snyder is standing next to the Driver's door of an

un-marked Police car which has blocked Mr. Smith in.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Smith can only stare at Detective Atwood. His Adam's

apple moves up and down though he makes no sound. Should he

or shouldn't he?

Finally he throws his arms up in a shrug but in his half-turn

of indecision he happens to spy the Newspaper he tossed at

the passenger seat of his car.

Part of it is draped over the console. The red circles around

the words on that page jump out at him.

Mr. Smith returns his attention to Detective Atwood.

CONTINUED: (2)

She gives him a dazzling smile.

Atwood walks back to her car and gets in.

INT. UNMARKED POLICE CAR N DAY

As Snyder accelerates away he points to the car's computer

screen.

EXT. PARKING LOT N DAY

Mr. Smith watches the unmarked police car going away and

wipes the sweat out of his hairline.

INT. AIRPLANE N DAY

We're following a STEWARDESS down the aisle. She stops at a

row and leans over to hand a glass of tomato juice to the

Person in the Window Seat.

Mr. Brooks who now looks like the Man in the picture on the

third Driver's license, accepts the drink.

He takes a sip and resumes his gaze out the window.

The earth that he is looking at below is a long way away.

EXT. REDWOOD CITY N LATE AFTERNOON

Come off a sign which reads: STANFORD UNIVERSITY - 2 1/2

miles to an Alamo rental car traveling south on the El Camino

Real.

INT. ALAMO RENTAL CAR N LATE AFTERNOON

In his Pottery-Throwing clothes, Mr. Brooks is behind the

wheel.

There's an Ace Hardware Store bag sitting upright and open on

the passenger seat. We peek over the edge of the bag.

A brand new hatchet with a gleaming blade sits at the bottom.

Mr. Brooks adjusts the rearview mirror. Marshall is on the

passenger side of the back seat.

CONTINUED:

Without any indication he's been addressed, Marshall

continues to stare stoically ahead.

EXT. EL CAMINO REAL - LATE AFTERNOON

The Alamo Rental car carrying Mr. Brooks continues on.

INT. HIGH CEILING BUNGALOW N NIGHT

It's dark. There's barely enough ambient light to see that we

are close on the knob of the Front Door.

From outside we hear the muffled sound of a Black & Decker

cordless drill and the knob begins to vibrate. Someone is

drilling the lock.

The sound stops. The knob turns. The door opens. A flashlight

is shone into our face.

EXT. HIGH CEILING BUNGALOW N NIGHT

From the protection of the doorjamb, a very young UNIFORMED

POLICEMAN is the person shining the flashlight into the

house.

He's flanked on either side of the door by Detective Atwood

and Detective Snyder.

The Officer's flashlight illuminates a short ENTRYWAY with a

HALL immediately off to the left and the LIVING ROOM fading

into darkness, straight ahead.

Flashlight in her left hand and the Glock in her right,

Detective Atwood is the first one across the threshold.

She directs the beam at the wall next to the door; finds the

light switch. Click! Click! Click.

CONTINUED:

She continues to the Hall. The darkness is so oppressive

there, it seems that her stream of light must struggle to

pierce it.

The Room at the end is the KITCHEN.

With Snyder hanging in the Entryway to protect her back,

Atwood eases the hand with the flashlight around the corner.

The dishwasher, the sink, the cabinets gleam dully back at

her. She steps inside.

A debris field of empty pharmaceutical boxes and vials trails

away from the Refrigerator.

Her flashlight sweeps the rest of the Room. Beyond an open

countertop in the DINING AREA, the light blurs past an oval

of white, and then comes back.

It's the face of a WOMAN!!

Careful of the litter, Atwood moves forward until she can see

that the Woman is sitting in a chair at the far end of the

dining table.

Her throat has been cut. Her head is being held upright by

her hair which is taped to the back of the chair.

She has a pen taped between her fingers, but the Appointment

Book in front of her is drenched in blood.

A light and footsteps hurry toward her from the LIVING ROOM.

Atwood swings her light at them.

He squints and turns away.

CONTINUED: (2)

Atwood swings her light back onto the dead Woman. The

combined illumination of the flashlights cause the support

joists twelve feet up to throw eerie shadows onto the open

ceiling.

The Uniformed Policeman comes up beside Atwood.

The smell of blood and the sight of the carnage is too much

for him. His gorge rises and he gags.

The Officer doesn't have to be told twice.

Atwood retraces her steps in the Kitchen.

She focuses her flashlight on an open padlock dangling from a

steel band that runs around the Refrigerator. With the barrel

of the Glock she opens the door.

The only edibles inside are a tomato, half a loaf of bread, a

package of hotdogs and some part of a chicken in a KFC box.

The rest of the space is vacant.

CONTINUED: (3)

She shuts the Refrigerator.

Atwood and her flashlight pass us. Three feet to her right

and slightly behind is Snyder and his flashlight.

The two Detectives are leaving the Living Room and entering

the HALL toward the bedrooms. The ceiling is low here and it

feels very claustrophobic.

Ahead is a Door painted red.

But before they get to it, there's a Room on the right.

Snyder shines his light in.

It's a BATHROOM. The shower curtain is open. Nobody in the

tub.

The Door ahead is waiting, but there's another Door on the

right. Snyder shines his light in.

This one is a Treatment Room with a Therapy table and shelves

of oils and unguents.

They've come to the red Door. Atwood will open this one.

She turns the knob and pushes. The Door is stuck. She and

Snyder exchange a look.

Snyder shuffles back half a step and flattens himself against

the wall. He shuts off his flashlight.

Atwood takes a deep breath, levers her weight against the

door and pushes.

There's a sudden Snap! Then the door swings freely open. The

beam of Atwood's flashlight reveals a large room containing a

bed, a dresser, a...

CREEEKKK!!! The sound is coming from up in the rafters.

Atwood whips her flashlight in that direction.

For an instant the beam catches a piece of a large shape

falling fast right at her.

CONTINUED: (4)

Then it's lost in the darkness and then picked up again in

the reflected light in the Hall. The shape is a naked Man.

WHACK!! The Man nails Atwood in the shoulder. BANG! Her gun

goes off. She bounces into the wall and onto her ass.

Barely slowed the Man continues in an upward arc. His feet

and knees slam into the ceiling. Plaster dust rains.

The Man swings back, past Snyder. He's lost in the darkness

again. Then he swings back into the light and comes to a stop

just inside the bedroom Door.

The Man is hanging from a rope around his neck. He's dead.

His Body is festooned with syringes stuck into his bare

flesh.

In fact two of the needles hold a sheet of paper to the Man's

chest. Printed on the paper in big black letters are the

words:

HA! HA! HA! HA!

EXT. CHICAGO

The gray of dawn is in the sky.

EXT. O'HARE AIRPORT N PRE DAWN

Mr. Brooks, wearing a disguise that makes him look like the

picture on the Driver's license in the first plastic sleeve,

gets into a Taxi.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET - CHICAGO - DAWN

The Cab drops Mr. Brooks off in front of a house. Mr. Brooks

watches the Cab drive away and then with his Carry-On bag

starts walking in the opposite direction. He turns a corner.

EXT. SECOND SUBURBAN STREET - CHICAGO - DAWN

Still on foot, Mr. Brooks arrives at his non-descript Toyota.

There are also neighborhood cars parked along the street. Mr.

Brooks unlocks his car and throws his Carry-On onto the

passenger seat.

EXT. FREEWAY - DAWN

Mr. Brooks' Toyota speeds up an on-ramp and joins the light

traffic.

INT. TOYOTA - DAWN

From the back seat Marshall watches Mr. Brooks remove the

pieces of his disguise - a wig, a mustache, glasses, and drop

them in the Carry-On.

CONTINUED:

EXT. CITY STREET N DAWN

Long ago this was a nice area. A banner hangs from an old

Deco building - ROOMS FOR RENT.

Mr. Brooks is walking through the Parking Lot beside the

Building.

There, as a first car in a double space is the old green

Pontiac convertible. It's blocked in by another car.

Mr. Brooks sidles between the cars to check the license plate

against the one in his memory.

It's the car Thorton Meeks was in, outside the Drug Store.

Mr. Brooks walks away.

INT. CERAMICS STUDIO - DAWN

Mr. Brooks opens the kiln door and removes three pieces

embellished with a beautiful yellow glaze.

He sets them on a table then takes his Carry-On bag and

places it in a ceramic trough which he puts into the kiln.

The door is shut.

INT. KILN N DAWN

Flame erupts from the gas jets.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - BROOKS HOUSE - DAWN

The Bathroom door opens. Mr. Brooks, in his pajamas, turns

out the light and crosses to the bed. Emma looks up as he

pulls back the covers and gets in.

CONTINUED:

He lays his head on the pillow and is almost instantly

asleep.

INT. DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CONDOMINIUM - MORNING

Reflected in the glass of an open mirrored closet door is a

tastefully furnished DEN with floor-to-ceiling windows that

look out at LAKE MICHIGAN from the 20th floor.

An empty suitcase falls into this picture and bounces on the

carpet. Behind the mirrored door, Detective Atwood is atop a

stepstool rummaging through the suitcases on the highest

shelf.

Throughout the Condo there is an incessant ringing of the

phones.

Another suitcase goes down and Atwood finds what she's

looking for - a framed color 8 x 10 photo of her husband,

Jesse. He's in a business suit and holding some kind of

trophy.

The phones stop ringing.

Atwood comes down the stepstool, folds it and is carrying it

back to where it lives when the phones start ringing again.

She picks up a cordless in the Den.

INT. LAW OFFICES N MORNING

The Asian Attorney interrupts her sip of coffee.

INT. DEN - DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CONDOMINIUM N MORNING

INTERCUT with Nancy.

CONTINUED:

She slams the frame of Jesse's photo against the inside of a

metal trash can.

Nancy winces and then smiles at the sound of shattering

glass.

Atwood plucks the photo out of the frame and tears it so that

the rip can be heard over the phone.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM - BROOKS HOUSE N MORNING

Mr. Brooks is still asleep. Emma, dressed for the day,

arrives at his side of the bed. She rubs the back of Mr.

Brooks' hand.

Mr. Brooks opens his eyes.

CONTINUED:

INT. KITCHEN N BROOKS HOUSE - MORNING

In his slippers and robe, Mr. Brooks is standing in the

Doorway watching Jane who is leaning over the Counter with an

open Newspaper next to a bowl of cereal.

He has a chance to take a good long look before she feels his

presence and raises her head.

Jane can't quite conceal the tremor of surprise that ripples

through her and Mr. Brooks sees it.

Mr. Brooks nods, turns to leave, then turns back.

CONTINUED:

EXT. MR. SMITH'S CAR N AFTERNOON

Looking off the grill as it overtakes another car in the

Fastlane.

Eminem is on the stereo. The car ahead moves out of the way.

INT. MR. SMITH'S CAR N AFTERNOON

Mr. Smith is rapping along to "Cleanin' Out My Closet". He

knows all the words.

EXT. FREEWAY N AFTERNOON

With Eminem fading, we fall behind Mr. Smith. One car, two

cars. The third car is Detective Atwood's car.

INT. DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CAR N AFTERNOON

Atwood is driving. Snyder is in the passenger seat.

CONTINUED:

He looks at her and shakes his head.

EXT. SUBURBAN STREET N AFTERNOON

Mr. Smith's car enters the Parking Lot of a Rib Joint.

Atwood's car stops across the street.

INT. ATWOOD'S CAR N AFTERNOON

Atwood and Snyder watch Mr. Smith enter the Restaurant. They

wait in silence. A muted 'tone' announces the arrival of an

Email on their computer. Snyder reads and frowns.

CONTINUED:

She twists the screen around so she can read the message.

Snyder points across the street at Mr. Smith coming out of

the Restaurant carrying a Take-Out bag.

Atwood hesitates.

She starts the car. There's the muted 'tone' again. Atwood

looks at the computer screen.

INT. POLICE STATION N AFTERNOON

Trailed by Snyder, Detective Atwood arrives at Captain

Lister's SECRETARY.

CONTINUED:

Atwood blows past the Secretary and opens the door to

Lister's office.

INT. CAPTAIN LISTER'S OFFICE N AFTERNOON

There are two MEN in suits on the other side of the desk from

the Captain. Atwood ignores them and focuses on Lister.

Atwood glares at her then at the FBI Men.

Atwood looks from one Man to the Other.

CONTINUED:

She leaves. Snyder closes the door behind her.

INT. RECEPTION AREA - BROOKS BOX FACTORY - LATE EVENING

It's deserted with only a small spill of light coming from

Mr. Brooks' Office.

INSIDE

Mr. Brooks is at his desk.

The lamp at his elbow throws a yellow cone across his face.

His head is in his hands, he's been crying.

Marshall steps out of the shadows behind him.

He reaches into a bottom drawer and as he takes out an

envelope, Marshall reads the tear-stained hand written letter

resting on the blotter.

Mr. Brooks picks up the letter and folds it.

Mr. Brooks stuffs the letter in the envelope, seals it and

picks up a pen.

CONTINUED:

On the envelope he writes: For EMMA and JANE.

EXT. STREET N NIGHT

On the sidewalk Mr. Smith is walking toward the on-coming

traffic. The headlights make it difficult to tell one car

from the other until they pass. That doesn't keep him from

looking for Mr. Brooks.

The houses stop and he's passing a pocket park. In a dark

space between the street lamps, a hand falls on Mr. Smith's

shoulder. He jumps and a scream squeaks out of his throat.

It's Mr. Brooks, in his Pottery-Throwing clothes.

Mr. Smith swallows hard and nods. Mr. Brooks propels him into

the park.

INT. MR. BROOKS' CAR N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks is driving. Mr. Smith is in the passenger seat.

Both are lost in a wary silence. Abruptly from the back seat:

CONTINUED:

Marshall roars with laughter.

INT. DETECTIVE ATWOOD'S CONDOMINIUM N NIGHT

Atwood is propped up in bed reading a Magazine. Her hair is

pulled back and her face glistens with Cold Cream.

The phone rings. Should she answer it? It rings again, then

again. Reluctantly she grabs the receiver.

INT. FOUR STORY APARTMENT BUILDING N NIGHT

A MAN in a Flight Attendant's uniform is standing at the

window of the Apartment he shares with the Stewardess.

CONTINUED:

A cordless phone to his ear, he is looking down at the House

where the dance Couple was murdered.

INTERCUT with Detective Atwood.

She's about to hang up when Struber speaks again.

CONTINUED: (2)

Atwood disconnects then quickly dials.

INT. APARTMENT BUILDING N NIGHT

Coming up the back STAIRS we arrive at a LANDING and make a

right. In front of us is Mr. Smith watching Mr. Brooks pick

the deadbolt in the Service door.

CLICK!

Mr. Brooks straightens up, twists the handle and pushes the

door inward. It's caught by a chain. He takes the bent rubber-

tipped forceps from one pocket, from another he hands Mr.

Smith a pair of latex gloves.

INT. APARTMENT N NIGHT

In the middle of the large darkened KITCHEN, Mr. Brooks

pauses to listen to the sounds of the Apartment.

The gun with the silencer is already in his right hand. Both

are encased in a Ziplock bag.

Beside him, Mr. Smith is wide eyed with fear and

anticipation. His teeth are even chattering.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks and Mr. Smith come out of the Kitchen. The LIVING

ROOM is quite well appointed. There's a fire going in the

Fireplace.

The sound of a T.V. is coming from a ROOM off a HALL up

ahead. That is where Mr. Brooks and Mr. Smith are headed.

They're more than half way across the LIVING ROOM when DING!

DONG!, the doorbell rings.

Mr. Smith gasps and looks beseechingly at Mr. Brooks. Without

an ounce of hurry, Mr. Brooks maneuvers him back into the

shadows of the KITCHEN.

The doorbell rings again.

A wet spot appears in Mr. Smith's crotch and runs down his

pant leg. Pee drips onto the linoleum.

A Man comes out of the Hallway. The Living Room light goes

on.

The Man is Jesse, Detective Atwood's estranged husband.

He opens the Front Door.

The Woman who comes in is Sheila, his divorce lawyer.

They kiss, tongues. His hands brush over her breasts. He

begins to unbutton her blouse. The kiss breaks. As he

continues unbuttoning.

Jesse opens the blouse and looks at the breasts under the

bra.

Sheila gives him a quick kiss and moves on into the LIVING

ROOM where she drops her briefcase on the couch.

CONTINUED: (2)

Backlit by the Fireplace, Jesse kisses her again.

From the KITCHEN, Mr. Brooks and Mr. Smith watch Jesse unzip

Sheila's slacks and dropping to his knees peel them off her

legs.

She steps out of them. He kisses the inside of her thighs,

her crotch, then standing up:

On his way out of the LIVING ROOM:

He shuts off the light. In the glow of the Fireplace, Sheila

removes her jacket.

The T.V. goes silent. Jesse returns with a partially full

glass of Champagne.

He hands Sheila a glass from a side table, takes a bottle out

of an ice bucket and as he fills her glass:

They clink glasses.

CONTINUED: (3)

She bops him playfully. He bends and slips a nipple into his

mouth. Sheila bites her lip and moans.

In the KITCHEN, Mr. Smith shifts around for a better view.

The floor under him CRREEEKKS!

In the LIVING ROOM, both Sheila and Jesse react to the sound.

Mr. Brooks seems to appear magically out of the darkened

Kitchen with his gun raised. He's followed by Mr. Smith.

Sheila opens her mouth to scream.

INT. MR. SMITH'S APARTMENT BUILDING N NIGHT

Detective Atwood hurries down the HALL and out of breath,

stops in front of Mr. Smith's door. She raps sharply. Waits a

bare three seconds and raps again.

The door of the Apartment behind her opens and an OLDER WOMAN

sticks her head out.

CONTINUED:

Atwood shows her badge.

As the Old Lady watches, Atwood tries the knob. It's

unlocked. She pushes the door open.

The HALLWAY and LIVING ROOM she can see are completely empty.

Furniture, T.V., camera equipment, art, gone.

INT. MR. SMITH'S APARTMENT N NIGHT

On her way in, Atwood draws her gun.

Keeping close to the walls she audits the KITCHEN. All the

Cabinet doors are open. Dishes, pots and pans, cutlery, gone.

She moves on to the BATHROOM. Soap, shampoo, toilet paper,

toothpaste, toothbrushes, towels, washcloths, the contents of

the Medicine Cabinet, gone.

She moves on to the BEDROOM. Bed, night table, lamps, T.V.,

computer, gone. Clothes closets, empty of everything.

She looks around. Mr. Smith's entire Apartment has been

stripped absolutely clean, except...

... there's a crumpled piece of paper in the far corner of

the Bedroom.

Atwood goes over and gets down on one knee. With her fingers

pulling at the corners she is able to straighten the paper

enough to make out that it's a work order from a Moving

company.

CONTINUED:

Reading it with the paper pinched between thumb and

forefinger of her left hand, Atwood rises. There's the

silhouette of a Man in the doorway behind her.

Atwood whirls, gun up. She sees that it's Snyder.

Atwood slowly lowers her head and fixes her eyes on the floor

in stunned silence.

CONTINUED: (2)

Atwood goes to leave the room. Snyder blocks her way.

Atwood smiles winningly.

CONTINUED: (3)

Snyder never sees it coming. WHACK! Atwood's right cross

nails him exactly where the jaw meets the neck and down he

goes on his ass.

EXT. FREEWAY N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks' car speeds under an overpass.

INT. MR. BROOKS' CAR N NIGHT

In the back seat:

Without taking his eyes off the road.

Mr. Smith slides a pistol from under his jacket and points it

at Mr. Brooks.

CONTINUED:

He accelerates around a truck into the Fastlane. Mr. Smith

can see the Exit coming up, it's quickly left behind.

Mr. Brooks smiles a knowing smile. Beyond him on the other

side of the Divider, cars are zipping by in the opposite

direction.

Mr. Smith doesn't have an answer for that.

CONTINUED: (2)

EXT. OLD DECO BUILDING N NIGHT

Come off the banner hanging across the front - ROOMS FOR

RENT, to find Atwood walking away from her car.

INT. LOBBY - OLD DECO BUILDING N NIGHT

High ceilings, once grand, now blue neon and a cage around

the Front Desk to protect the Night Clerk who is nowhere in

sight. Somewhere a radio is playing salsa music loud.

CONTINUED:

Atwood crosses to the elevator. She pushes the call button.

With an arthritic rattle the door opens.

INT. ELEVATOR N NIGHT

Atwood selects the 5th Floor. Creek!, Clatter!, Clank!, the

door closes and after a stuttering liftoff the car begins its

ascent. The overhead light flickers on and off. Atwood looks

up at it.

EXT. SIDEWALK N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks leads Mr. Smith across a street to a pedestrian

gate set in a high wall.

Through the bars of the gate we can see a Cemetery bathed in

moonlight.

Mr. Brooks reaches into his pocket. Mr. Smith tightens his

grip on the gun.

Mr. Brooks does as he's told. A key dangles from his fingers.

Mr. Brooks unlocks the gate and preceding Mr. Smith, goes

inside.

He locks the gate and handing the key to Mr. Smith:

CONTINUED:

He produces a small flashlight from his pocket and off they

go.

INT. OLD DECO BUILDING N NIGHT

Repeating their arthritic performance the elevator doors

open. Atwood steps out into a wide sporadically lit HALLWAY.

Peering at the numbers Atwood goes to her Left.

In the middle of the Hall behind her a Couple exits a Room

and drifts to the other side of the Hall on their way to the

elevator.

Atwood re-checks the number on the Moving Company's Work

Order - 517, she's going the wrong way. She turns around.

Now Atwood and the Couple are walking toward each other on

opposite sides of the Hall.

Atwood steps into an area of light.

The reflection off her face catches the attention of the Man

who is wearing a wide brimmed hat. He lifts his head.

It's Thorton Meeks. The Woman with him was the Driver of the

Van. She's wearing a watchcap.

Meeks gently takes his Companion's arm. They stop. Her eyes

go to where he's looking and then back to his. At some

unspoken signal they both draw their guns.

Intent on finding 517 and Baffert, the Couple hasn't

registered on Atwood's radar.

BANG! TWOCK! A chunk of plaster blows off the wall next to

her head. Startled, Atwood winces away. BANG! The Woman

fires. The slug explodes the plaster on the other side of

Atwood's head.

Now Atwood is turning toward them, gun in hand.

Meeks fires. The bullet passes through Atwood's jacket.

CONTINUED:

Instinctively Atwood assumes a classic duelist's pose

offering the smallest target possible. Calmly she squeezes

off her first shot.

The plaster explodes from the wall above Meeks' head. The

Woman fires.

A hole appears in Atwood's sleeve. Atwood pulls the trigger

again.

SMACK! The Woman screams and falls back into Meeks, a bullet

in her hip. Atwood's third shot takes the hat off Meeks head.

She now realizes who her attackers are.

Dragging the Woman in the direction of the stairs, BANG!

Meeks fires. Maybe it's his broken trigger finger that

affects his aim. The shots miss. BANG! BANG! The Woman fires.

Atwood's next two shots miss.

Meeks and the Woman arrive at the stairs and before rounding

the corner, BANG! BANG! BANG!, fire at Atwood who is now

moving deliberately at them.

Atwood doesn't try and dodge the bullets or flinch away from

them and her shots are unhurried.

The next one catches the Woman in the side. The one after

that nails Meeks in the left shoulder. He's spun into the

Woman.

INT. STAIRS - OLD DECO BUILDING N NIGHT

Leaning on each other Meeks and the Woman lurch down the worn

marble steps.

INT. HALLWAY N OLD DECO BUILDING - NIGHT

Atwood reaches the stairs and cheats a look around the

corner. BANG! BANG! BANG! From the landing below, Meeks and

the Woman fire.

Atwood steps out from behind the wall and shoulders square,

shoots. Another sidestep. This shot shatters Meeks' knee. He

bellows in pain.

CONTINUED:

Moving to the side again, Atwood shoots. But Meeks' knee has

collapsed and he and the Woman are already tumbling down the

next set of steps. Atwood waits. There's silence, then the

murmur of voices.

INT. STAIRS - OLD DECO BUILDING N NIGHT

Gun at the ready, Atwood edges her way downward. At about the

tenth step she is able to lean over and look through the

banisters.

Meeks and the Woman are propping themselves up against the

wall on the LANDING below. Both of them still have their

guns.

The moment Meeks' eyes meet Atwood's, he puts his gun to the

Woman heads. BANG!

Atwood sucks in her breath.

Meeks puts the gun to his temple. BANG!

Atwood clasps a hand to her mouth and exhales in ragged

gulps.

EXT. CEMETERY N NIGHT

The finger of light from Mr. Brooks' handtorch discovers a

freshly dug GRAVE.

He positions himself at one end of the Grave.

CONTINUED:

Mr. Brooks shuts off his light and straightens up.

Mr. Smith raises his gun and points it at Mr. Brooks's head.

He hesitates.

He does. Mr. Smith pulls the trigger.

Click!

Mr. Smith looks in horror at the malfunctioning gun. Mr.

Brooks opens his eyes. Mr. Smith aims the gun again.

Click!... Click!

As he talks he counters around until Mr. Smith is the one

with his back to the open Grave.

He wrenches the shovel out of a mound of waiting earth. Mr.

Smith tries to fire the gun at Mr. Brooks again.

CLICK!... CLICK!

He opens his jacket and shows Mr. Smith the gun.

CONTINUED: (2)

Without warning, Mr. Brooks swings the shovel. The force of

the blow breaks Mr. Smith's left arm. He howls.

The next blow comes almost immediately. It smashes into the

left side of Mr. Smith's head.

The screams stop and a misfiring set of neurons causes Mr.

Smith to stand up straight and wobbling, look directly at Mr.

Brooks.

The blood streaming down his face is black in the moonlight.

Mr. Brooks takes a step to the side, cocks his wrists and

swings again. His full weight is behind this one.

The blade of the shovel strikes Mr. Smith in the throat very

nearly taking off his head. The flesh that was once Mr. Smith

falls to the ground.

INT. GRAVE N NIGHT

Looking up. Mr. Smith's body is rolled over the edge. It

falls on top of us.

EXT. CEMETERY N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks takes a shovel of dirt from the pile and whistling

'By The Light Of The Silvery Moon', begins the task of

covering Mr. Smith.

INT. COFFEE SHOP N MORNING

A Newspaper is lying unfolded on the Counter next to the

remnants of a breakfast.

The headline reads - NATIONWIDE MANHUNT FOR THUMBPRINT KILLER

- Under that headline is a large picture of Mr. Smith aka Mr.

Baffert.

In the lower right corner is another headline to a story -

Murder Suicide For The Hangman -.

The reader of the paper is Mr. Brooks. On a stool next to

him, Marshall is also reading.

On the other stool next to Mr. Brooks is a WOMAN. Her large

purse hangs open from the back of the stool; the cel phone

clearly visible inside. Mr. Brooks looks at the phone.

INT. POLICE STATION N MORNING

Detective Atwood is seated in her CUBICLE reading the same

front page Mr. Brooks was reading. A FELLOW OFFICER stops in

the door.

He moves on. From off screen:

Snyder comes in and holds up the Work Order from the Moving

Company.

Atwood picks up the Newspaper.

She stands. The phone rings. She answers it.

CONTINUED:

EXT. ROOFTOP PARKING LOT N MORNING

Looking out at the city, Mr. Brooks speaks into the cel phone

he stole from the Woman.

INTERCUT with Atwood.

Snyder perks up. She points for him to get on the other line.

CONTINUED:

Detective Atwood weighs her options and decides to go for it.

Atwood and Snyder hear the click as Mr. Brooks hangs up.

At the Parking structure, Mr. Brooks holds the phone over the

edge and drops it.

We follow the phone down, down, down, until it hits the

pavement and disintegrates.

EXT. BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

Everything is as it was.

INT. KITCHEN - BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

It's dark. In his robe and pajamas, Mr. Brooks is standing in

front of the open refrigerator gazing blankly at the contents

with a glass of milk in one hand. There's nothing he wants in

here. He closes the door.

INT. UPSTAIRS HALLWAY N BROOKS HOUSE - NIGHT

Carrying the glass of milk, Mr. Brooks passes Jane's ROOM.

The door is ajar. He stops, backs up and looks. His

Daughter's asleep.

INT. JANE'S BEDROOM - BROOKS HOUSE N NIGHT

Mr. Brooks walks to the bed and leans over to give her a kiss

on the cheek.

His lips have just brushed her flesh when she twists

violently under him and stabs upward with a pair of scissors.

The blades are driven deep into his throat. Mr. Brooks jerks

back, the milk flies out of his hand.

He grabs at the handle of the scissors, but his blood makes

them too slippery. He can't pull them out.

INT. MASTER BEDROOM N BROOKS HOUSE - NIGHT

Mr. Brooks is tossing in his sleep next to Emma. She has a

hold of his arm.

On the pillow Mr. Brooks' eyes fly open.

She kisses him on the forehead.

Taking his hand, she lies back down. After a moment Mr.

Brooks turns over on his side and looks directly at us. His

lips begin to move but we can't hear what he's saying, so we

move in on his face. It's not until it fills our view that we

can hear the words.

CONTINUED:

FADE TO BLACK

