Beside him is a ten-year-old boy.       His expression has the

weight of stone.

He pushes the boy forward.

The clan mummers "welcome Raizo", bowing their heads.

One head remains upright, looking him in the eye.        A girl

roughly his own age. Her name is Kiriko.

MIKA CORETTI, 30's, high-energy, a force of nature in              *

human form. She enters EUROPOL AGENT RYAN MASLOW's                 *

office carrying an armful of reports.                              *

Sets her pile down and she hands him one folder from the           *

ton.                                                               *

Her eyes tell him.                                                 *

He chuckles.    She's not laughing.                               *

He eyes her.                                                      *

ON A DOOR LOCK as he inserts his key and HEARS:

Raizo turns to his LANDLADY, an older woman who looks up

at him from the top of the stairwell.

Raizo nods, his expression not betraying the sudden

tightness in his chest at this information.

BACK TO:

Mid-day traffic, tourists strolling down wide avenues

past war monuments and street art.

Just long enough to ESTABLISH UNDER:

Close on a mound of bank records; rivers of numbers

cascading neatly down perforated spread sheets.                  *

He would never admit it, but he enjoys watching her work,

almost as much as he likes poking her about it.

She begins flipping through huge reams of bank records.

The proverbial needle in a haystack; a single wire

transfer circled in red.

He sifts through the report.                                      *

He smiles as they move to one of the circular tables.

She shakes her head.       Lying.   Quickly sipping her coke.

He slips an envelope from his briefcase and gives it to

her.

He scoffs.

He finishes his soda and takes his garbage to the can.

He smiles and turns before she flushes a bright shade of

red.

A teapot begins to sing.

Raizo pours the boiling water into a plastic bowl of

noodles. He covers the bowl and waits a moment for the

soup to cook.

As he stares, we hear.

Several of the younger members of the clan are sitting at

the table, about to eat.

Ozunu stands before them. He removes a small blade from

inside his robe. Places the blade against his palm.

The knife slices down along his palm, opening a split;

the flesh parts, yet no blood flows.

He closes his fist.

He concentrates, squeezing his hand tightly until he

opens it revealing that the wound has closed.

The children look at each other, except for Raizo who

stares at Ozunu.

Ozunu leaves.

The children look at the soup, their mouths watering.

All around, the older Ozunu clan members eat noisily.

One of the children can't resist any longer and begins

scooping up the noodles. In short order, others do the

same.

Raizo's expression hardly changes. Ozunu returns to his

place, and Raizo starts walking again, making no noise,

and leaving no trace of his passage...

...except for a trail of small, bloody footprints.

The same evening. Most of the children in this place

sleep on mats in the same room. They are exhausted,

silent, motionless.

We FIND Raizo and though he makes no sound, his eyes show

silent tears of pain, his feet still bleeding and

bruised.

Kiriko looks on from her mat for a long, silent BEAT,

knowing the agony he is in. Then, as if coming to an

inner decision, she reaches under her mat for a leaf into

which a thick salve has been folded. She crosses the few

feet to Raizo's mat and, as he watches in silent agony,

she puts her finger to her lips, then kneels down --

-- and begins applying the salve to his feet. Within

moments, we can see the pain leaving his eyes. Finishing

quickly, she folds the remaining salve back into the

leaf, exchanges a quick, furtive glance with Raizo, then

heads back for her mat.

He lays there for a BEAT, confused as to whether his

diminishing pain is a good thing. Then he turns to look

at Kiriko, but she lays with her back to him, apparently

asleep.

He regards her silently for a moment, then rolls over

himself to sleep as we come around to --

-- the other side of Kiriko, and see that she is very

much awake, almost smiling. She closes her eyes.

The apartment is dark as Mika ENTERS and turns on the

lights. She looks the place over, then goes room to

room, turning on every light in the place. The practiced

way she does it makes it clear she does this every night.

Satisfied she's alone, she goes into the bedroom to

change.

Mika is curled up in a chair and with KGB report.

She turns a page and sees a photocopied drawing of a very

intricate floor that we now recognize as the Nightingale

Floor. She reads the caption beneath it.

Kiriko is working in the bonsai garden. Raizo watches

her silently for a moment noticing that she is secretly

loosening the wires, letting the branches ease back into

their natural shape.

He whispers.

She finishes releasing the branch.

There's sadness and bitterness in his eyes. He's closing

off to the world, becoming what they want. She won't let

that happen.

He hesitates, then approaches. Kneels down beside her.

She reaches toward him. He flinches...a sword he can

handle, but kindness has become something foreign...then

allows her to undo the top button of his shirt. She

presses her ear to his chest. Listens.

Then she gently whispers to it.

She listens again.

Raizo smiles despite himself.

Again, he hesitates. Then he leans in, and listens to

her heart. Bump-thump. Bump-thump. She smiles.

She smiles sheepishly.

Mika walks down the empty street, the sound of her heels

slap against the stone buildings.

The shadows seem to stalk her.

She hears a faint sound like metal claws against glass.

She stops and listens trying to see into the dark.

Raizo is practicing his chain form.

We begin to hear the sounds of another fight.

Raizo, is fighting with TAKESHI, a few years older, in a

room lit by hundreds of hanging torches. Armed with

katanas, the boys duck, dodge and weave around the

burning obstacles as they fight.

They are both extremely agile, their bodies moving with

the impossible flexibility of youth.

Kiriko watches along with the other members of the clan.

If she feels anything as she watches the fight, we cannot

tell.

They perform a vicious series of combinations, then

Takeshi's sword cracks against Raizo's head, opening a

huge gash.

Raizo hits the ground hard, blood speckling the mats.

Takeshi backs away as Ozunu steps in.

As blood flows down the side of his face, Raizo looks

like the young boy that he is. Pain throbs from the

wound, and he begins to cry.

He gouges three fingers into the boy's stomach and twists

something inside of him.

Raizo screams.

His screams smear into uncontrollable sobbing.

He steps back, leaving Raizo writhing in agony.

He signals to the rest of the clan and they all begin to

leave.

Kiriko is the last to turn away.

Later.    Night.

Raizo is still where we left him, a twisted knot of pain,

his face stained with tears and crusted with snot.

He is trying to control his breath, at first without

success. Then slowly, finally, it begins to ease. His

hand, twisted into a kind of rigor mortis, slowly begins

to relax, opening like a lotus flower.

Dawn breaks over the wall, as Ozunu returns to the dojo

to find Raizo is sitting in a full lotus, completely

calm, the wound already beginning to heal.

Ozunu shows a hint of a smile.

They are walking. Maslow is nervous.

Zabranski is leaning against the door jam.

His faint smile reminds us of Ozunu.

She nods.

Maslow isn't sure he wants to answer her.

He pulls a folded piece of paper from his jacket.

She thinks.

FLASH CUT.

We see Mika reaching out to touch Raizo's face.

CUT BACK.

She shrugs.

He shakes his head, handing her the paper.

Mika shoots off as Maslow calls-

She takes several exaggerated tip-toe steps.

A shuriken blade grinds against a whetstone as Raizo

sharpens the weapon with practiced grace...despite being

blindfolded.

Sunlight is held back by vertical blinds.

When he finishes, he stands, a Rodin sculpted out of

midnight.

We realize there are wooden blocks placed around the

room.

In his palm, a single shuriken abruptly fans into many

like a deck of cards.

Suddenly his arm whips around as the shurikens crack and

split the thick wooden targets.

He stands alone, still blindfolded.

One of the OLDER NINJAS is wrapping Raizo's eyes with a

sticky gauze, like the tape used to wrap horse's legs.

Takeshi's sword slides from one position to another as

Ozunu looks on.

Raizo, blindfolded, reacts to the sound, matching his

posture a fraction of a second later.

Takeshi attacks again. While Raizo eludes or blocks

several blows, for every two he manages to block, another

connects.

Raizo gets up, slowly releasing the tension in his jaw.

He takes his position again, and this time the stance is

easy, his expression softer. This time, as Takeshi comes

at him, everything becomes clear.

The whistle of the blade.

The zip of the leg sweep against the tatami mat.

The sound of his robe.

Combined with Takeshi's unmistakable body odor Raizo has

everything he needs to dodge, slip and counter.

His chain strikes, wrapping an ankle, throwing a stunned

Takeshi to the wall.

Kiriko tries to hide her smile.

Ozunu nods in appreciation.

Raizo nods back, as if he can see without eyes.

Young Raizo, still blindfolded is in bed. Trying to

sleep, but it's impossible. Takeshi's snoring doesn't

help.

He turns slightly towards Kiriko, as her chest rises and

falls, her breath as rhythmic as and gentle as the lap of

sea-water in a tidal pool. He begins to breathe in sync

with her, perhaps in hopes it will relax him.

Slowly, all the other sounds in the room go away, until

only her breathing, and his, remains. There is the

slight murmur of their hearts.

Then she opens her eyes...and smiles at him because he

cannot see her. But he hears her heart begin to beat

faster and that brings a faint smile to his lips.

They listen to each other's breathing growing heavier,

the sound of their hearts beating faster and faster.

Her lips part as she makes the tiniest movement...tilting

her pelvis up, rubbing her hips ever so slightly against

the blanket-

It's like tectonic plates shifting for Raizo.

Bump-thump, bump-thump, bump-thump their hearts growing

louder and louder as they become-

Mika knocks.       The cold war widow opens the door.

She nods.

Mika enters.

Sabatin and Mika sit across from each other. The house

has the chill of loneliness. Tea has been set out

between them.

She pours tea, the harsh memories still fresh.

Raizo's heartbeat.

He listens to it.    Meditates on its simple rhythm...

Until a sound explodes in the room, it is a sound we

haven't heard in his apartment-

A phone.

He rises slowly as the phone continues to ring.   He

answers it silently waiting for something-

The line clicks and goes dead.

Raizo walks through the crowded market. Shoppers,

salesmen and tourists fill the narrow aisles between the

stalls.

FIVE CHILDREN- who we see only from the back- run past.

Shouting laughing. The last one jostles against Raizo as

he goes by.

Raizo keeps walking, but he is holding an envelope in his

hand. He slips it into his pocket.

Raizo opens the envelope as he crosses the street.

There's a square of paper inside, and a photograph.

On the paper is a street address in Berlin. The

photograph is a close-up of a woman's face...

Mika.

Close on the box. It sits on her desk, calling as

another box once called to Pandora.

She opens it.

Inside are a series of cataloged photographs taken in the

style of 1970's archeologists (like those of the dead sea

scrolls) of the lost chapter of Ibn-Battuta.

The scrolls contain his 14th century Islamic writing and

several sketches.

There is also a very rough map that suggests the location

of The Orphanage.

Images of the orphanage, of the children training and

their ordeals, bloody combat, ritual bindings, beatings

on the Nightingale floor.

There is a scroll that she unrolls revealing the lineage

tree of the Nine Clans.

Also in the box is a single VHS tape.

She pushes the tape into the player.

It's a recording of a surveillance camera staring at the

front of the Sabatin house.

A man walks up to the house and rings's the bell. We

cannot see his face. Sabatin opens the door. They

exchange words. Sabatin seems wary but invites the man

in.

Mika doesn't understand why this is significant.

She hits fast forward until she sees a flash as the man

exits. She stops, rewinds and plays it again.                   *

As he steps out of the shadow of the house, she sees his

face-

It is Raizo.

She is startled when someone pounds on the door. It

seems like it might rattle off its hinges as she hurries

to open it revealing-

Maslow and he's not happy.

He pushes into the room and slams the door behind him.

He reaches across her desk.

She nods, her gut clenching.        He pulls out a small

notebook.

A beat.

He smiles in the way a piranha might smile if it could.

He leaves.

She gets up and closes her door.    She grabs her phone and

calls Maslow.

She disconnects then texts.

TEXT: 911. CALL ME. M

It is later. The garage is a gyre of shadows.       Mika

walks towards her car.

The fluorescent light flickers and goes out.      She stands

in the dark.

It flickers back on.    She continues to her car.

She gets in as a shadow leaps to life behind her.         She

starts to scream when she realizes it's-

Maslow.

He nods.

A typical autocrat.

She likes this guy.

He hands her a Glock and two spare clips.

He also gives her a phone.

He shakes his head and slips out the door.

Mika parks her car around the corner from the apartment

building, gets out and starts down the street when she

sees --

-- the apartment building and the one next door are dark.

Candles and flashlights are visible in some of the

apartment windows, a scattering of neighbors congregating

outside. Mika approaches a NEIGHBOR.

Mika looks up at the building, scared but not ready to

believe that ninjas are responsible for everything. She

pulls a tiny LED flashlight out of her bag and starts

into the building.

And she continues into --

-- where she climbs the steps, each creak adding to the

possibility of attracting trouble. On the passing

floors, we hear doors being opened and shut, footsteps,

the distant murmur of voices. Could be nothing. Could

be everything. She presses on.

She opens the door to her apartment, shining the tiny

light ahead of her. Shadows chase each other across the

room as she swings the light one way, then another.

There seems to be no one else in the place. But as she

hurries into her home office, we see --

A shadow move behind her.

As she packs she begins to hear something, a tapping.

The same sound she heard before. She pulls the gun from

her purse. With the flashlight spearing the darkness,

she goes to her office.

Again the window is open, the blinds gently blowing

against the sash.

She is certain the window had been locked.

Now every shadow is alive.

She rushes back to her bedroom aiming in every direction.

Her flashlight finds her suitcase. On the top of her

clothes she sees it: An envelope. Perfectly centered.

Setting the gun down, she picks up the oragami-folded

envelope. Opens it with a shaking finger.

Black sand spills out.

Terror steals her breath. Behind her, a shadow tilts and

reveals the eyes of a ninja.

Before she can even move, a blade flashes from the

darkness, heading for her neck-

Another shadow blocks the blade, knocking Mika over the

bed.

The sounds of a fight erupt all around her but the

combatants are almost invisible in the surrounding

darkness.

Her flashlight catches glimpses. Impossibly fast, lethal

predators trying to kill each other.

She crawls towards the spilled contents of her suitcase,

towards the gun. Another blow arcs for her and is again

blocked.

Her hand finds the handle of the gun.         She points into

the dark, fires.

The gun flash strobes the room, freezing the two ninjas

in the blink of a flashbulb.

They move towards her until a kick sends her gun flying.

She can feel them fighting very close to her and when she

finds them with her flashlight, a blade is struck deep-

Blood erupts.       One shadow falls to the ground.

The other turns towards her. Her flashlight shakes as

the ninja reaches up and removes his mask.

It is Raizo.

He sees in her eyes that she knows him.

She nods.

She glances at the dead ninja.                                      *

He waits.                                                       *

He nods faintly.    Then turns to his dead "Brother".           *

She looks at the dead body.                                     *

His nod is almost imperceptible.                                *

He hears something she can't.    She starts to speak, and       *

he stops her with a gesture.

She looks for her gun.

She tries to compute the idea that he's been following          *

her.                                                            *

She nods, Raizo's eyes lite up.

Shakes her head "no."

He hears something else.

She runs with the flashlight to a bureau. Inside is a

black tablecloth. He pulls her shoes off.

He leads her down through the stairwell of the large walk

up. She follows him step by step.

Suddenly he pulls her into the corner of a doorway.

Wrapping the tablecloth around them, they melt into

darkness.

Beneath the wrap, he puts his hand over her mouth and

nose stopping her breath.

Outside after a long beat a ninja's foot silently glides

past, climbing the stairs.

Inside he releases her nose. Before she can finish

taking a breath he yanks her up and they quickly descend

the remaining stairs.

The dead ninja lies in a pool of blood.

The shadows come alive and four dark figures emerge, born

from the black-

The Hanta Kirra.

Their leader drifts forward surveying the apartment, his

dark eyes flashing that we recognize.

Like snap-focus flashes taking in the myriad signs of the

fight: the bullets in the wall, footprints, and shattered

lights. One of the killers uses his sword to trace the

line of a slashing cut in wall. Braille from the blow

that Raizo used to cut the ninja.

He removes his mask and we see it's Takeshi.

Another Ninja leans forward and tastes the air with his

nose. Eyes closed. Like a dog getting the scent, his

inhalation a long, low whisper in the silent room.

Takeshi nods turning to the windows.      He smiles; A hunter

who knows the hunt is almost over.

A figure is running wildly through the thrashing

branches.

Ozunu addresses the clan, his eyes like those of an

executioner.

BACK TO:

We are gaining on the figure who continues to bolt like a

panicked horse.

BACK TO:

BACK TO:

We rush up behind the figure who glances back.     It is

Kiriko and she screams as we attack-

The sound of the assault becomes-

Mika's car rushing past us.

Raizo is silent.    Mika is driving.

She watches in the mirror for a moment.

She swallows.

Raizo is dressed in normal clothes his hair starting to

grow back from the close shave he had in the Orphanage.

He wears a silk blindfold.

Ozunu sits in the leather gloom of the stuffed

upholstery.

Raizo does so. Looking around at the lights of Osaka, a

city he has never seen before.

Raizo nods faintly.

Raizo nods again, then opens the door and steps out.

CLOSE ON the fat wrist of a large man as he strides

across the lobby.

He turns to his entourage which includes several

bodyguards and a few arm pieces.

He laughs and the arm pieces cluck on cue.

He heads into the bathroom.

Kingpin enters there is only one person in the bathroom-

Raizo washing his hands. His eyes flash in the mirror,

watching the Kingpin only after he has turned away.

The enormous man steps into a stall. After a moment he

begins to piss, moaning slightly as he does.

Raizo hits the air dryer button.        The sound fills the

room.

A thin razor sharp blade flashes from his sleeve.

The Kingpin continues to enjoy his piss but as we look at

him we see the door behind him silently swing open,

revealing Raizo.

Raizo stares at the back of the man's head. He can

almost see his jugular beating beneath the thick folds

of his neck-

But something prevents him from striking.

The dryer stops, the sound of the piss dribbling when the

Kingpin suddenly looks back over his shoulder-

Raizo strikes but the kingpin is able to deflect the blow

which sinks into his enormous body.

He laughs.

He smashes a fist into Raizo that slams him backwards.

Raizo attacks and it is immediately apparent that this is

not going to be easy.

Several ferocious blows that would have broken the neck

of a smaller man, only seem to make the Kingpin madder.

Soon both are covered in blood, and gore.

But it is not until Raizo slams the man's head against

the lip of the urinal-

The first time a font blood splashing up--

The second time the porcelain shatters as the Kingpin's

head opens, spilling black blood across the floor.

It is raining.

Raizo, still wearing his bloody clothes, climbs up onto

the roof, his clothes spattered with gore.

He waits as the shadows around him come to life: Ozunu,

Takeshi, and several other clan members surround him.

All but Ozunu wear their masks.

Raizo extends his hand, revealing the black and gold

watch, smeared with fresh blood. He offers it to Mr.

Ozunu.

Ozunu smiles.

His eyes narrow.

Several of the other ninjas step back. Revealing

Takeshi. He pushes a small hooded figure forward.

Takeshi yanks the hood off revealing a young girl.         She

is bloody, bound and gagged and for a flash-

Raizo sees her as Kiriko.

He unsheathes his blade, offering the hilt to Raizo.

Raizo looks at the girl, her tears lost in the rain.

We cannot tell if Raizo is crying as he takes the blade-

He CRIES OUT, the light of madness in his eyes.

He STRIKES, lashing out with the fury of a wild animal,

at Ozunu --

-- who bends back with impossible grace.       But not far

enough.

The point of Raizo's sword slashes across his face,

opening an ugly wound that spills blood over his eye and

mouth...

He hasn't tasted his own blood in years, and the anger

boils up in his eyes.

Raizo meets their attack. Throwing himself into the fray

as only a man who is no longer interested in living can.

But the ninjas are everywhere. They hurl shuriken at him

by the handful, a storm of jagged steel racing for

Raizo's flesh.

Raizo blocks some of the shuriken, misses many more. The

shuriken strike muscles, tendons, flesh. He SWINGS

around, still trying to attack, there are too many of

them.

He stumbles back towards the edge of the roof as Takeshi

SWINGS what he believes will be the death blow as --

-- Raizo half-falls, half-leaps backward, falling from

the rooftop, tumbling through space, until he --

-- Splashes into the canal below-

Bubbles dancing between the ribbons of blood.

Mika speeds along the autobahn.

He says nothing.

He considers her.

His head nods slightly.

He cocks an eyebrow.

He looks at her impressed.

He almost smiles.

He nods, noticing shops out beyond the exit.

The shops are all closed, Mika's car crawls to a stop in

the empty parking lot.

Raizo looks her over.

He starts to leave then stops-

He looks her in the eye.

She nods. He opens his door and slips out.

She watches as he heads for the doors. He passes into

the shadow of the building and disappears.

She digs into her bag for the phone Maslow gave her.

She TEXTS: 911. But situ stable. Guardian angel all in

black. Need Battuta book soon. Will call. M

She hits send. Looks out to the darkness surrounding

her. After a moment one of the shadows comes to life.

The door opens and Raizo gets in, his arm full of

clothes.

The car is parked around several others.

Raizo goes into the bathroom, and turns on the shower.

He nods.

He pulls the garbage bag from the wastepaper basket.

Then leaves as she begins getting undressed.

Outside the hotel, Raizo finds a pine tree.       He cuts

several branches from it.

Back in the room, he enters the bathroom.        She is still

in the shower.

He hands her the tree branch.

He starts taking off his clothes. He does it quickly

without any sense of awkwardness; the world where he came

from makes little distinction between male and female.

She's not from the same world, keeping herself as covered

as possible with a tree branch.

He jumps in the shower while she tries to dry herself

off.

He steps out and quickly wipes the dripping water off his

body with the branch.

In the bedroom, Raizo is dressed in new clothes. He

lights a cigarette as Mika come out struggling with the

tightness of her new jeans.

She nods, digs through her purse for the phone.

She looks at Raizo.

Maslow waits, the red-tip of his cigarette glowing in the

middle of his silhouette.

Mika is leading.

Raizo hesitates; an animal sensing danger.

They approach Maslow.

He embraces her.

Raizo is chained to the walls of a vault. Spread-eagled,

double-locked, and lit from all sides so there are no

shadows anywhere in the room.

Raizo's head sags.   Eyes closed.

Cameras stare at him.

Classic Berlin aesthetic. A modern office shoe-horned

into an abandoned building: cubicles, computers and Aeron

chairs amidst crumbling walls.

Maslow's team are hanging out there, thirty agents, a

fairly competent and well-armed bunch. Maslow is inside

the control room which is like a small construction

trailer. Several different monitors have images of

Raizo.

For a moment it appears that Raizo looks up as Maslow

looks at him, as if somehow Raizo could see through the

lens watching him. Then his head drops again.

He scans the different monitors.

The goon struggles to stop Mika as she storms inside.

The security goons clear out, closing the door behind

them.

She wheels on him to let him have it.

-- but he holds a finger to his lips, indicating be

quiet.

He glances up at her, and it's clear: he has affection

for her.

He presses a tracking device into her hands.

Raizo remains motionless, his eyes open when he hears

someone coming.

It is the middle of the night. Raizo lies on a floor

mat, unable to sleep. He looks over at Kiriko's empty

mat. Quietly he gets up and makes his way outside.

He moves to an upright bamboo box about the size of a

coffin. Looking at --

-- Kiriko, in the box. Dehydration has left Kiriko with

barely the strength to breathe. Her lips are swollen and

cracked, she sags against the tight walls of the box.

He pulls a bamboo straw from his dark robe, then fills

his mouth with water from a flask.

Sticking the straw through the bamboo poles near her

lips, he feeds her drop by drop, and in this way,

separated by a cage they share a kind of kiss.

Her eyes part, ever so slightly, and she manages a smile.

She meets his eyes.

Mika is standing behind the bars which slide open.

She has a bottle of water, she looks at the two armed

guards following her.

They stand near the door as Mika crosses to Raizo.

She holds the water bottle to his lips, whispering.

He nod's, swallowing another sip.

He is unlike anyone she has ever met.

Mika rushes up to Maslow who is talking to the group of

Europols.

The men chuckle.

They ad-lib responses: Fucking' A sir... Locked, cocked

and ready to rock.

Raizo looks up.       His eyes narrow: they're here.

The lights go out.

Mika's eyes dart into the pitch, red emergency lights

suddenly glowing ominously.

Maslow spins as she sprints for the stairs.

Maslow draws his firearm and hisses at one of the Special

Ops.

The screams of dying men and gunfire shudder down the

gullet of the old concrete building.

She watches as the men position themselves, pressing into

the black of the corridor. Thumbs flick safeties to hot.

A shriek pierces the silence, one of the agents suddenly

jerked from his feet like a puppet on a string.

They watch in IR as the agent falls to the ground in

several pieces.

#2's exclamation gets caught in the oozing slit that

opens in his throat.

The man guarding Raizo's cell door screams.

He clicks his flashlight the beam glinting against a hail

of shuriken that pound into him, wounds flowering in

ribbons of red.

Mika watches as he lands wetly at her feet.

More screams and gunfire shake the shock from her.

She dives for the guard, frantic fingers clawing at the

key-chain clipped to his belt.

The remaining Europol Agents cluster together,

flashlights strobing spastically, while Mika slams

through Raizo's cell door.

She instantly goes to work on his leg irons.

Raizo's eyes narrow, the last of the Europol Agents

butchered by shadows.

Raizo meets the Hanta-Kirra in the air. Vaults from one

wall and door to another, spinning in and out of view as

he moves through the shadows.

The ninjas move with him, matching his speed and ferocity

and ability to disappear within the darkness.

Swords clash against chains and sword and walls.      Sparks

fly and blood falls.

This is the first time we've seen Raizo turned loose.

But it's three on one...and Takeshi isn't a pushover.

Mika and Maslow slam through the exit into--

The building carpark.    Mika suddenly stops.

He is about to argue but wilts at her resolve.

He stuffs his car keys in her hand, trying not to let his

voice crack.

He turns.

He opens the door retracing their steps into the dark.

Mika suddenly very alone manages a slow nervous pirouette

in the crypt-like garage, before skittering for Maslow's

sedan.

She slides in pulling the door shut behind her as quietly

as she can--

And waits.

Maslow moves cautiously through the folds of midnight.

He hears the fighting before he can see it.

Raizo blocks a sword-thrust from Takeshi. Dodges around

a hail of shuriken. Uses his chain to drive another

Ninja back.

Takeshi rips free his left arm. Draws a short, angled

blade and brings it slashing down at Raizo's neck...

Raizo blocks the knife with his elbow, twists, throws

Takeshi twenty feet through the air. He recovers mid-

flight like a cat and regains his balance.

From the darkness a ninja fires a dozen shuriken at him,

and at least three of the spinning blades find their

mark.

Raizo grunts at the impact, but vaults up and over a

counter and LEAPS through a window, crashing out to -

The surrounding shadows seem to press in on the car.

A figure darts in her periphery and her head whips around

craning all directions.

Ka-chunk-- she punches the lock.

Click-- the headlights flash on--

Ka-chick-- she chambers the Glock.

She twists the ignition and as the motor turns over--

The car's headlights explode, shattered by projectiles

that seem to materialize from the void.

Mika screams throwing the car into gear--

Peeling out toward the down ramp.

The car fishtails down level after level through the

oscillating light/dark of the dimly lit exit ramp.

Her eyes twitch from mirror to mirror when she sees up

ahead--

A shadow hanging in the corner of the tunnel like a

spider.

She ducks just as the front of the sedan is shredded by a

squall of stars.

The sedan rebounds into the light. Its hood and

windscreen looking as though it was gnawed on by a Great

White.

Mika cranks the wheel tearing around a dark bend as--

Toom! Something lands on the roof of the car.

Above her she sees the distinct tips of the tiger claws

that have punctured the metal exterior of the car just as-

-

She passes under a light--

Revealing a crouching ninja staring right at her, through

the sun roof.

His blade whips from its sheath but before he can strike--

She jams the barrel of the Glock between the two tips of

one set of claws, right where his foot should be--

And fires.

A scream is followed by a gout of blood that washes over

the sunroof--

The ninja's body tumbling off the back of the car.

Maslow's gnarled sedan bottoms out in a starburst of

sparks as it corners into traffic.

Mika breathing heavy digs into her bag for her cell

phone.

INTERCUT WITH:

The lights are still dead. Maslow is with a team of

Europols moving through the stairwell. He talks quietly.

He looks into the surrounding shadows unsure.

Raizo parkours across the roofs, the Hanta Kirra close

behind.

Shuriken sizzle past; some missing, some lashing open

whip cuts across his flesh.

Raizo pulls free the shuriken in his side. Drops them to

the ground where they clatter back and forth like so much

tossed change. He looks up at winged victory silhouetted

against the moonlight.

And suddenly the ninja are on him.

Raizo blocks and parries. Counterattacks with a reverse

cut - and throws himself sideways as a truck comes

roaring down at him.

The truck fills the screen with lights and horns and

three tons of death.

Raizo cartwheels over the hood, forcing the Scarred Ninja

to leap the other way, and as he turns --

-- Raizo comes down on him, slashing his shoulder.

The fight is now two one against one, and one of them is

Takeshi. Their swords crash back and forth, sending

sparks flying.

Raizo is tired, already wounded by the shuriken...

With a cry, he hurls a second Ninja back and spins to

face Takeshi...

Too late. Takeshi's blade gets under his guard.       Opens

up Raizo's side.

His sword is ripped free from his hand, rebounds off a

speeding sedan and clatters to the ground thirty feet

away.

Raizo stumbles backward. Life's blood dripping down and

splattering on the concrete.

Takeshi raises his sword high.       Smiles.

Mika's car slashes across the width of the street

screeching to a stop next to Raizo. The door snaps open.

Raizo gets into the car. Collapses into the seat, arms

wrapped tight around the ugly wound in his side. She

peels away before the others can stop her.

Mika carves a path through the traffic, driving as fast

as she can. Eager to get more miles between them and the

ninjas.

Raizo lets out a gasp as the car goes over a bump.        His

shirt is drenched with his own blood.

The car speeds into the night.

The sort of store where the owner lives above the shop.

Mika pounds on the door as a LIGHT comes on in the floor

above. A moment later, the door opens.

He steps out of the way as Mika helps Raizo in, bloody

and half-dead.

