After a few introductory credits, we pull back to reveal the

source of this kaleidoscopic backdrop: A SINGLE, STRIPED

TULIP, planted in a long row of other tulips. A HAND reaches

in and pulls the tulip from the ground. We then cut to:

is loaded with hundreds of other baskets. The door of the

truck is SHUT and we cut to:

are now boxed and crated. A forklift moves the crates onto a

wagon, which is driven by a MANNED CART across the biggest

warehouse on the planet, the Bloenen Markt (CHECK THIS--

steven) in Amsterdam, Netherlands. The cart and wagons we

were following disappear into a maze of synchronized

activity.

constructed like an ampitheater: the buyers sit in a steeply

raked semi-circle, facing two giant, clock-shaped scoreboards

that display the bids on the flowers being viewed. The

striped tulips fetch a very high price.

sorting apparatus of enormous size and complexity. They end

up on a truck heading for the airport.

flight, they sit nestled in the cargo hold.

airport tarmac and loaded onto another plane.

truck. The truck drives through a small town and pulls into

the back of a

A YOUNG MAN takes delivery of the flowers and carries them

through the rear of the store to the display area up front.

We stay on the tulips as we hear the following conversation:

A beat.

Danny takes a safe deposit box out of a wall, He opens the

box, revealing a CELL PHONE and some CASH.

Danny boards a train.

The landscape hurtles by. We pan over to find Danny sitting

next to the window. We continue to pan and find REUBEN

TISHKOFF seated next to a group of male commuters.

REUBEN lies in a mud bath, his face covered with a dried

exfoliating "mask" treatment. There is a cigar in one hand

and a cellphone in the other. His eyes are closed to the sun.

A SHADOW crosses over Reuben's face, and Reuben squints open

one eye. There, with the sun like an aura behind his head, is

TERRY BENEDICT.

Reuben is handed a bloody mary by the porter, who then

continues on, bringing a glass of white wine to THE AMAZING

YEN.

Yen swims a strong, steady freestyle. Pull back to reveal

that he is swimming in a 9' by 5' "Endless Pool" in his 15th

floor Shanghai apartment.

A HAND MOVES INTO FRAME and turns off the water current. Yen

immediately slams into the end of his jacuzzi-sized pool. He

lifts his head out of the water to SEE the POWER TWINS

standing "poolside."

He spits out a stream of invective, in Chinese. The Power

Twins look at each other.

Yen sets his magazine down and heads for the bathroom, where

TURK and VIRGIL MALLOY are waiting in line.

VIRGIL and TURK MALLOY, in GTX lycra yoga gear lead a class

(mostly female) through the vinyassa. The studio is mirrored

on three sides.

Turk looks to him, but also sees a GUY in the class staring

at all of the women "raising their buttocks high". He

indicates this to Virgil, who goes over to the guy.

Virgil steps on the guy's back and leans down to whisper in

his ear.

Virgil stands up. Benedict and the Power Twins are standing

right behind him. His expression changes as he sees them in

the mirror.

The Malloys and Yen are still waiting for the bathroom.

Finally, the lock OPENS and RUSTY RYAN exits. We follow him

to his seat, where he puts on a pair of headphones.

Of molten metal bubbling in a small iron cask, a jeweler's

cask. MOVE to REVEAL a GARAGE filled mostly with cars in some

state of restoration

FIND RUSTY as he painstakingly works on a new piece that is

just BELOW FRAME. Whatever it is, it is clearly getting to

him. He shakes his head; it's not right. It's just not good

enough. Rusty glances at the digital thermometer attached to

the cask of molten metal. It reads: 736.18 degrees.

Rusty glances in his rearview as he drives through the city

talking on his cell phone. He's keeping an eye on a white

Cadillac that seem to be following him.

Rusty turns a corner, then glances in his rearview again.

Rusty makes another turn. A few seconds later, the Cadillac

turns behind him.

Rusty pulls to a stop light. The Cadillac pulls up three cars

behind him.

Rusty looks to the heavens.

Rusty snaps his phone shut.

Rusty looks into the rear view mirror and then slows the car

to a stop. He gets out of his car and slams the door shut.

He walks back to the Cadillac and knocks on the window. It

rolls down electronically to reveal Benedict.

Rusty continues to listen to his headset. We pan over to see

FRANK CATTON seated opposite him.

The penthouse apartment. It takes the entire floor and has a

360 degree view. Right now, all of the furniture inside of it

is being taken away by movers. Frank enters frame.

A long beat. Benedict stares back at him.

Livingston takes us to Saul Bloom, reading the Racing Form.

All dark wood and oriental rugs. MOVE across a row of oil

paintings that flatter stodgy club members from the 1800s to

the present. Land on Saul, sitting in window light that

mimics the aforementioned portraits.

The person with him nods.

A jacketed WAITER appears, holding a tray.

The waiter tips the tray to reveal Saul's credit card, which

has been CUT INTO TINY PIECES. Without missing a beat, he

reaches for his wallet.

Saul leads us to Basher.

Basher is putting the finishing touches on a song. A producer

and engineer sit behind a huge mixing console. It's good--

Basher's really got something going here.

Basher is leaning over a thick legal document, and Benedict

is leaning over him. The music has been turned off.

Basher takes us to Linus.

Linus looking from the front seat to the back, talking to

Benedict.

He turns forward, thinking. Then after a beat, he turns back

to Benedict.

Benedict nods. Linus turns forward and exhales, relieved.

Linus takes us back to Danny. The train hurtles onward.

Reuben, Yen, the Malloys, Frank, Livingston, Saul, Basher,

and Linus are all talking at once -- right at us. Right at

Danny. And they are not happy.

The group is in an abandoned WAREHOUSE somewhere near NYC.

Danny is overwhelmed, like a deer caught in the headlights.

He throws a desperate glance at Rusty, who's looking out the

window serenely, letting Danny flounder.

Total silence. Everyone just stares at Danny, waiting for an

answer.

Everyone raises their hands except Reuben.

Fair enough.

Everyone raises their hands. Including Reuben. Danny gets up,

walks over to Rusty.

The rest of the guys shrug and begin talking amongst

themselves.

After a long beat.

A beat.

Danny steps back.

Danny's tone draws everyone's attention. Noticing this, Danny

and Rusty move into a nearby dilapidated office doorway.

The guys go back to talking, mostly about what they were

doing when they were found. This rises steadily in volume

until the din is obliterated by a LOUD VOICE:

The guys exchange glances. Danny walks over to them and

sighs.

Livingston hands his passport to a KLM AGENT.

JUMP CUT TO the agent handing Livingston his boarding pass.

The agent looks back at him, confused.

JUMP CUT TO the agent handing Linus his boarding pass:

CUT TO the agent handing Virgil and Turk their tickets.

JUMP CUT TO the agent handing Saul his boarding pass:

JUMP CUT to show Frank:

The desk agent looks back at him skeptically.

Frank stands with his arm outstretched, shoes and belt off.

Two TSA officers run metal detecting wands over every inch of

his body. Three more guys pick through his luggage: they

squeeze toothpaste from his Sensodyne tube, sniff his hair

products, unroll his "tighty-whitey" briefs....

PAN to REVEAL that Basher is getting the exact same

treatment, right next to him. They exchange looks.

REVERSE ANGLE: the rest of the group stands sipping iced

lattes from Starbucks and watching the show. Reuben walks up.

Reuben hands Danny an envelope.

Yen says something in Chinese.

Yen sits in First Class, playing an in-seat video. Virgil and

Turk kneel on either side, watching his progress.

Reluctantly, they do. We follow them back to coach, where

they pass Linus, talking to himself.

We move on to find Livingston, who grabs Turk by the arm.

Turk moves on, taking us past a sleeping Saul and landing on

Danny and Rusty, who watch a movie with fixed expressions. A

reverse angle shows us that the video screen is twenty rows

away--it is impossible to discern any detail at all. Rusty

takes his headphones off and exhales. Danny notices this and

does the same. After a beat:

The guy in front of Danny moves his seat back suddenly and

spills Danny's drink all over Danny's lap.

Linus approaches Danny and Rusty.

Danny and Rusty exchange a look...then look back at Linus.

Uh-huh.                          Right.

Rusty turns to Danny.

Linus leaves. Danny and Rusty put their headphones back on.

Now they look content.

Basher and Frank watch Linus go.

Saul chews his economy class trail mix.

Saul stops chewing. They look at each other.

Establishing shots of the city.

The group makes their way down a damp cobblestone street.

They stop in front of a window and look up.

REVERSE ANGLE

They have stopped in front of a narrow townhouse that has

been converted to a hotel. The sign says "Bellagio of

Amsterdam."

A single room with 12 bunks in it. Their noses are wrinkled

up because the place stinks.

Everyone looks at each other and turns to leave.

A long beat.

Four black mercedes skid to a stop outside Amsterdam's finest

five-star hotel.

Everyone emerges with big smiles on their faces. Everyone

except Linus. He scowls, yanks his bag back from the hotel

doorman who rushed over to take it for him.

Tess enters and buys a phone card.

Tess talks to Danny. Across the street, a BLACK SEDAN is

parked.

Tess can't bring herself to tell Danny the truth, that it was

entirely her fault.

Danny hangs up the phone and site.

In other rooms, the guys get themselves settled in. Each

takes a step toward personalizing their suite.

Danny and Rusty lead an obviously eager Linus towards a

coffee house.

Danny and Rusty nod. Okay.

Who is obviously a MAN IN DRAG.

Linus looks to Danny and Rusty but they give him nothing.

She/He looks to Linus, who looks to Danny and Rusty.

Again, the Evelyn looks to Linus, who has nothing to say.

Evelyn nods and looks to Linus, as do Danny and Rusty. He

furrows his brow, then speaks:

Danny and Rusty stare at Linus like he's nuts, like he's just

cracked. Evelyn's entire expression changes.

She/He puts his/her drink down and walks to another part of

the establishment.

Rusty and Danny follow Evelyn and quietly console him/her.

Linus cools his heels.   Danny and Rusty emerge from inside.

Danny and Rusty just look at him.

Danny and Rusty exhange looks. What?

They just keep staring at him.

But Danny and Rusty aren't laughing.    They look pissed.

Seriously pissed.

Danny and Rusty just look at him.      Linus squirms.

Danny and Rusty explain the job to the group.

A photo of a four-story canal house is displayed on a flat

screen connected to Livingston's computer.

A photo labeled "The Vanderspeigle Getuigschrift" is

displayed on screen.

A beat. Turk seems confused...

Danny and Rusty look at Linus,

Frank flinches. Doesn't like what he's hearing.

Shots of their mark, Vanderspeigle, being an agoraphobic

weirdo.

Turk's idea plays out as it is in his MIND'S EYE, until:

We SEE the security arrangements they describe.

Frank reacts again to the term "freak."   It really bothers

him.   Danny notices.

Everyone turns and looks at Frank like he's a freak.

The entire room is staring at him.

Danny looks to one side of the room...then the other.

The rest of the room agrees. Matter closed.    Everyone just

turns back to what they're doing.

Frank stews.

A beat.   Everyone thinks.    Then:

Linus looks at him.

Linus nods.

Rusty makes a circular motion with his finger and then stops

it with his other hand.

Yen says something in Chinese.

Everyone gets up and leaves. Within seconds, Linus is alone,

standing in the middle of the room.

Livingston uses a mock up of the alarm panel as a visual aid.

We see Basher rehearsing the shot. He can't get a clear shot

of the target. In fact, he can't see it. He turns to Saul.

Saul pulls a well-worn copy of the alarm system blueprint.

Basher goes to the height of the alarm keypad in the bedroom.

It's 4' 10".

Danny looks at a diagram of the safe they'll have to crack

when they get inside Vanderspeigle's house, the safe that

contains the "Vanderspeigle Getuigschrift". Everyone but

Linus and Rusty are here.

But then Rusty comes in.

Linus enters, out of breath. Seeing everyone, he goes to

Danny and Rusty.

They nod and allow Linus to pull them into the corner. Linus

looks over at the group and then turns to 'them.

Linus swallows.

Linus nods and goes back to the group.

Rusty and Danny walk along the adjacent road.

Rusty stops walking. Danny continues, then notices he is

alone. He turns back to Rusty.

As Danny and Rusty enter the hotel, Rusty trips on the steps.

Rusty bends down to look at the step. He notices that one

tile on the edge of the stop has lost some mortar. He touches

the tile and watches the lip rise up and down, up and down,

as though it's cantilevered.

REVERSE to REVEAL Rusty and Danny.

It is pouring rain. From across the canal, we MOVE towards

Vanderspeigle's house, favoring a barge moored just out

front. Then, instead of moving over the barge, we PUSH

THROUGH its hull to--

FIND Frank and Livingston inside manning a series of

industrial water pumps. They're grimy and covered in sweat.

Rain drips through the deck above them.

Frank thinks about that.

Yen pops his head out from a small tube and says something in

Chinese.

Frank shrugs...doesn't understand. Yen tries again.... This

time he enunciates very clearly and talks very loudly (like

Americans do when foreigners don't understand English).

Frank nods, starts turning the handle of the water pump in

the opposite direction. Yen climbs down out of the tube.

Then he climbs back up the tube. He picks up a jack in the

corner. Climbs back in the tube.

We FOLLOW him as he climbs through the tube and emerges

underneath Vanderspeigle's house, inside its foundation.

The thirty pylons extend from the base of the house into the

into the swamp it sits atop of. There is little space

between the swamp level and the house.   Runoff from the rain

outside drips everywhere.

FIND Danny and Rusty struggling to place a hand-cranked jack

into a freshly cut space in one of the timber pylons. They

are covered in muck and grime

FIND the Malloys, thirty feet away, using a fancy underwater

saw to cut a space in another pylon. Because the cutting is

taking place underwater it is extremely quiet.

They turn to look at Linus, sawing nearby.

Turk and Virgil think about that. Linus keeps sawing.

Basher and Saul sit in big cushiony chairs.

A long beat. Then each of them reach into their jackets and

produce $20 bills. They exchange and examine the bills

closely by eye. Satisfied, they trade them again and return

them to their coat pockets.

Frank sits watching TV. Livingston enters with groceries.

Just then they are interrupted by Danny's voice on a walkie-

talkie.

Rusty turns to Danny.

Livingston and Frank look at each other.

Basher sets up his gear again. This time, when he raises the

crossbow to check his shot, HE CAN SEE THE KEYPAD. Just

barely.

He steadies himself. Saul knows that he's ready to take the

shot. He speaks into a walkie talkie.

Basher aims. The INSTANT he fires the shot we

A MALE SECRETARY (HESS) rushes through Europol's

extraordinary Richard Meier-designed headquarters.

Europol Agent ISABEL LAHIRI gives a presentation to seventy-

five of her colleagues. With her on stage are a couple of

seated HIGHER-UP TYPES. She's nervous.

The secretary enters the auditorium and walks toward the

podium.

The Higher-Ups look at each other; what did she just say?

Many in the audience are now looking to each other, wondering

if this is appropriate.

One of the Higher-Ups convinces the other to say something,

but by now Hess the Male Secretary has reached Isabel and

interrupts her by whispering into her ear. She balances.

Isabel and Hess walk briskly through the ultra-modern

hallway. He briefs her as they walk in a hushed voice. Then

something he says stops her in her tracks.

Hess continues to explain something we can't hear. Then he

pulls out some PHOTOS. Isabel leafs through them.

Isabel arrives and is greeted by PAUL, a lead detective

working the Vanderspeigle theft for the Amsterdam police

department.

His partner looks over at Isabel, who is wearing a skirt and

pretty damn good shoes. The guy checks out her legs and looks

away.

Isabel walks away. Moments later, she enters the house with

the lead detective.

As soon as she's inside she's all business.

Isabel looks around Vanderspeigle's home office.   Behind a

fake bookcase is a small room which contains the safe. In

the other direction is Vanderspeigle's bedroom.

Isabel goes to the alarm pad. Pulls the face plate off,

examines the inside.

She moves on to look in the mark's BEDROOM.

Isabel examines the computer brain of the alarm system which

was locked inside a titanium case in Vanderspeigle's bedroom

closet. She answers the detective almost as an afterthought.

The lead detective enters the bedroom.

Again, Isabel is inside her own mind. She's really just

answering the detective's questions out of courtesy.

We GO WITH HIM as he walks back into the office. He stands

at the alarm panel and pretends to type in the code. He

twists around and looks out the window behind him.

Isabel re-enters the office.

He stands to the side of the panel and reaches over to type

in the numbers. It's an obviously unnatural position. Then

he moves in front of the panel and types in the code as one

normally would.

She points out an adjacent window on another wall.

She points at a small mirror on the opposite wall. The

detective bends down so his eye is at the level of the

keypad, then he looks in the mirror. He can see directly

across the canal into another house.

But Isabel's already moved on. Something has caught her

attention just above the alarm panel: a patch of paint that

is shinier than the paint that surrounds it.

Isabel puts her finger to her tongue to wet it, then touches

the shiny area. When she pulls her finger away there is

paint on it.

Isabel cocks her head.

A black-clad thief (LINUS) uses a paint brush to touch up the

wall above the alarm keypad.

The lead detective watches Isabel intently.

Isabel uses the blunt end of a letter opener from

Vanderspeigle's desk to gently dig at the wall under the

paint. The plaster there is soft and wet. In fact it isn't

plaster at all. It's spackle.

Isabel cooks her head again.

THUNK!   A crossbow bolt hits the wall above the alarm panel.

Isabel is at the window. The one that Vanderspeigle leaves

cracked open every night. Isabel looks across the canal at

the apartment where Basher and Saul were playing cards.

Isabel kneels down, checks the line-of-sight to make sure

she's correct.

Isabel pulls out a notepad and writes the name: "Eugene

`Basher' Tarr." There are two names above Basher's in her

little book: "Robert Ryan" and "Danny Ocean."

A bolt flies through Vanderspeigle's open window and hits the

wall above the alarm pad. Two thin wires are attached to a

tiny wheel, which is attached to the back of the bolt. The

wires run back to the window of the apartment across the

canal.

Inside that apartment: the wires end in another tiny wheel

which is mounted on a large tripod for stability.

In effect the group now has a mini-clothesline running

between the alarm pad and the apartment across the canal.

Livingston attaches a device designed to fit directly over

the number pad of Vanderspeigle's keypad to the "clothesline"

that runs across the canal.

Isabel writes: "Livingston Dell?" Underneath Basher's name in

her notebook.

Livingston's device is shuttled across the canal, through

Vanderspeigle's cracked window and right to the alarm panel.

Magnets on the side of the device cause it to snap into place

over the top of the keypad.   Livingston then types a six-

digit code into a remote keypad. His keypunches are mimicked

by the remote device. Vanderspeigle's alarm shuts off.

Downstairs: From inside we see the front door lock picked.

The door swings open.

Isabel nods her head. There's a slight smile on her face.

The smile of admiration, respect in another's skills.

She stops.    And smiles to herself.

Isabel quickly glances around the room.       Her eye lands on the

floor near the false bookcase.

On some dark lines in the crevices where the floor boards

meet.   She kneels down for a closer look.

Danny and Rusty come through the front door. They are

followed by Linus. All of them are soaking wet from 24 hours

in the swamp under the house, and the last few minutes in the

pouring rain outside the front door. The group silently

slips up the stairs.

They enter Vanderspeigle's office. You can hear him snoring

in the other room. Danny and Rusty quickly, carefully remove

the crossbow bolt from the wall and take it to the window.

They drop it (and the attached wires) to the Malloys, who are

waiting on the street below.

Meanwhile Linus spackles the hole in the wall and paints over

the spackle.

Danny and Rusty turn to see that Linus is finished. They

hand-signal each other like Special Forces guys do, then move

towards the bookcase on the adjacent wall.

Suddenly:

Everyone freezes. Danny puts his hand up to his ear to try

to listen for the sound he thought he heard. We hear the

faint sound of somebody singing to themselves.

Danny and Rusty quickly realize it's coming from behind the

bookcase. What the hell?

They yank open the false bookcase to reveal a handsome

Frenchman who has just finished cleaning out the contents of

Vanderspeigle's safe.

Danny and Rusty stare at him.   He turns around and sees

them, but if he's bothered in the slightest he sure isn't

showing it. Danny approaches him. This exchange is whispered

with a great amount of drama at very close range.

Just then, Frank and Yen arrive.    The Frenchman looks them

over.

Yen says something in Chinese.

Danny wants to raise his voice, but he can't.   Vanderspeigle

is snoring twenty feet away.

Danny and Rusty look at him.

The Malloys arrive.

He sounds as angry as a guy who's whispering can sound.

Livingston arrives, soaking wet like everyone else.

Basher and Saul arrive.

Dinner Jacket stops.   Thinks for a moment.   Then:

He hands Danny a business card.

Dinner Jacket smiles, then pulls a tiny electronic device out

of his shirt pocket. He presses a button.

And the alarm blares to life.

Paul stares at Isabel.

Isabel takes out her PDA, writes something on her keypad, and

hits a few buttons. A second later, Paul's BEEPER goes off.

The group sits around looking depressed.

Stunned silence from the guys. They won't even respond.

Yen says something.

Isabel arrives.

Isabel is waiting to be processed. Eventually, she is

directed down a hallway.

We LOOK through a one-way mirror into the interrogation room

where detectives Onderdonk and Devenpeck are trying the bad

cop / bad cop routine on Evelyn.

Isabel walks INTO FRAME and watches: Onderdonk slams his fist

on the table. Davenpeck shouts in Evelyn's face. Evelyn

just laughs.

Isabel shakes her head.

Frustrated and more exhausted than their detainee, the two

detectives leave the interrogation room for the ante-room

where Isabel is.

The two detectives look at each other.

Isabel produces a signed document. They look at it, shrug,

and give it back.

They shrug. Isabel goes into the room with Evelyn. We STAY

WITH Onderdonk and Davenpeck, who watch her through the two-

way mirror.

THROUGH THE MIRROR: Isabel walks right up to Evelyn, smiles,

and whispers one word to him/her.

Evelyn's face freezes. He/she looks at Isabel, scared. Then

he/she starts to weep. Uncontrollably.... Tears stream down

his/her face.

Isabel hands Evelyn a sheet of paper and he/she begins to

write.

Onderdonk and Davenpeck are dumbfounded.     Isabel turns

around so she's facing them.

The entire group, minus Danny, sits around glumly watching

CNN International on the flat screen.

Danny is on his cell phone on the other side of the room.

KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK. Something about it doesn't sound familiar.

Danny moves into the big roam.

Rusty is at the door, looking through the peep-hole. Rusty

puts his head down. Clearly it isn't a stranger.

He hangs up. KNOCK-KNOCK-KNOCK. Rusty indicates for Danny to

get it.

Danny opens the door to reveal ISABEL. She looks at Danny.

He looks back at her. They don't say a word. Danny motions

for her to come in.

Rusty spins to see Isabel.

He crosses to her.    STAY with the group for a moment.

Virgil and Turk shrug.

The entire group is watching them.

She hands a surveillance photo to Rusty.

She hands Rusty another photo. (These are the photos Hess the

male secretary showed her at Europol HQ that we couldn't

see.)

She hands him a third photo.   Looks at the fourth.

She hands this photo to Danny. It's a picture of Rusty, with

a dorky look on his face, peering out from behind a mailbox

he's using as cover while he spies on Isabel.

Basher winces at the sound of his real name. The group

stares back at her. Can't believe this is happening.

She knows it was Rusty.

She takes the photo of Rusty peeking from behind the mailbox

from Danny's hand.

She walks out. The group is frozen. Livingston is still

looking at the pictures of Rusty following Isabel.

Everyone agrees.

Isabel is talking to her superior.

She nods.

Isabel exits.

Dinner Jacket (AKA FRANCOIS TOULOUR) wins a huge blackjack

bet. The crowd reacts enthusiastically. A beautiful woman

stands near him.

The crowd around the blackjack table erupts as Toulour wine

another massive bet. Note: The same dealer pays him off.

The same crowd is watching. But Toulour is dressed in a

different tuxedo, and a different women is standing by his

side.

FOLLOW Toulour (in a different tuxedo, with a different

beautiful woman) as he exits the casino.

When we PICK HIM UP on the exterior he is in another tuxedo

with another woman.

Toulour rockets his turbocharged Bentley into a tunnel.

PICK HIM UP as he exits the tunnel in a new car, wearing a

new tux, with a new woman.

Yen (in V.O.) says something in Chinese.

Toulour. Another car. Another tux. Another beautiful

woman. He pilots his convertible Maserati at high speed

along the windy road.

Danny rolls his eyes.

A helicopter lands on a massive Lake Como estate.   Toulour

gets out. New clothes. New woman.

Toulour, in new clothes, with yet another woman, unlocks

several locks and disarms two alarms. The woman can't

believe all the security he has.

