FADE IN:

NEW YORK CITY - AERIAL VIEW OF DOWNTOWN MANHATTAN - DAY

MULTIPLE STREET SCENES - DAY

The sidewalks crowded as usual.  A sea of humanity.  People

come and go -- always in a hurry.  Oblivious of one another.

A TRAFFIC JAM -- A STREET being torn up by construction

workers; A SANITATION TRUCK loading up refuse; VENDORS

PEDDLING nuts and salted pretzels; PANHANDLERS blocking a

passerby.  Intimidating.  Demanding.  Almost mocking.

We're surrounded by the teeming life of the city as we've

come to expect it -- complete with a cacophony of sound.

MULTIPLE CUTS -- Phone kiosks and phone booths on the East

Side and West Side -- uptown and down.

One frustrated caller has lost his money in the slot and he

takes it out on the equipment -- smashing the receiver

violently against the coin box until the instrument splinters

into a dozen pieces.

DOZENS OF QUICK CUTS --

NEW YORKERS on the phone in extreme close up.  We don't hear

the words.  Only the facial expressions inform us that these

are human beings under tremendous pressure.  Life in the city

is wearing them down.

MULTIPLE SHOTS - JUST MOUTHS

Lips jabbering into receivers.  Cross-cut against one

another.

ANGLE ON CORNER IN MID-MANHATTAN - DAY

There's a phone booth situated on the southeast side of the

street.

CAMERA MOVES IN on the irate caller in the booth -- a very

well-dressed gray-haired lady -- totally conservative in

appearance.

She slams down the receiver and exits.  The booth remains

vacant for a brief interval.

Someone is approaching the booth, fishing in his pocket for

coins.  This is STUART SHEPARD, snappily dressed, his hair

styled and his nails manicured.  Here is a man who clearly

takes excellent care of himself.  He sports a Donna Karen

suit and silk Armani tie.

He's about to step into the booth when he's accosted by a

middle-aged man in a soiled apron who's run out of a nearby

restaurant and has finally caught up with him.

He slides the booth closed in Mario's face.

The frustrated restaurateur glares at him through the glass

before giving up and walking off -- talking to himself as he

goes up the block.

INSIDE THE BOOTH, Stu inserts his thirty-five cents and

dials.

A conservative businessman now stands outside the booth

waiting to use it.  He deliberately glances at his watch a

few times to demonstrate his impatience.  This bothers Stu

who slides the booth open a crack.

He closes the booth up again and turns his back to the

gentleman who gives up and departs.

He hangs up.  Then whips a tiny cellular phone out of his

jacket pocket, flips it open and dials.  Someone answers on

the first ring.

He hangs up.  Stu looks pleased as he folds the cell phone

and tucks it away.

Then he starts to vacate the booth.  The phone rings.  And

rings.  Curious, he picks up the receiver.  There's a voice

on the other end of the line.  A DISTINCTIVE MALE VOICE.

Stu is taken back by the accurate description of his apparel.

He looks around nervously.

Indeed that street corner is surrounded by high rise

buildings and hotels.

Stu knows he should simply hang up but something tells him

not to.  Perhaps it's the strange tone of the man's voice.

The sound of his own name sends a chill through him.

Stu nervously cranes his neck, looking around at all the tall

buildings that surround the street corner.

STU'S POV

PANNING up at thousands of windows.  The Voice could be

coming from anywhere.

BACK TO STU IN THE BOOTH

Stu can hear the beeping as the other line rings.

Then Mavis' voice can be heard answering.  Stu listens

helplessly.

Outside the booth, a huge, heavy-set black woman in a too

tight dress, now appears with the clear desire to use the

phone.  Her name is FELICIA.  She taps on the glass.

Stu ignores her and Felicia glares at him through the glass

with hostility.

Stu has no inclination to deal with anybody else.  He's too

distracted by the madness happening over the telephone.

From outside the booth, there's a louder rapping on the

glass.  Felicia really wants in.

She continues to rap on the glass as Stu tries to focus on

the two-way phone call.

The sound of the actual number being spoken shocks him even

more than the earlier mention of his name.

More violent rapping on the glass from the persistent black

lady outside.

She tries to pull open the sliding door to the booth but Stu

jams it shut, right on her hand.

She stalks off obviously in search of assistance.

He punches in the digits.  The phone rings -- and rings.

Then a girl's voice is heard.

CLICK!  She hangs up.

Stu uses his cellular again.

There's a click.  Silence.

A tiny red dot now moves across Stu's chest.

The tiny red laser dot dances around Stu's chest and stomach

-- the jumps up and remains between his eyes.

Outside the booth, the angry black woman has returned,

bringing with her a gaudily dressed pimp named LEON who looks

like he means business.  He slams his fist against the glass,

nearly shattering it.

He withdraws a switchblade knife from his pocket but doesn't

open it -- yet.

The pimp pockets the watch and the money.  But doesn't go

away.

Leon reaches in and grabs Stu's ring hand.

Leon reaches into the booth and grabs Stu's jacket.

At the suggestion, Leon lets go quickly.

It looks like a stalemate.  Stu isn't vacating the booth and

Leon and his lady are reluctant to touch him further.  He

does indeed look sick.

Suddenly the red dot reappears on the forehead of the pimp.

Leon doesn't realize it's there.  The hooker behind him has

no way of seeing it.  But to Stu, there's no way to miss it.

He reacts.

Reluctant to touch Stu again, Leon assaults the booth itself.

He begins shaking it violently -- trying to rip it from its

foundation.  And the rickety booth is not too sturdy.  It

starts rocking back and forth.

Stu is thrown around inside it, barely keeping his footing.

But Leon continues rocking the booth.  It won't come loose --

so in frustration, he punches in a side pane of glass.

The glass shatters all around Stu, who does his best to

shield himself from the slivers.

Leon is smashing other panes of glass now -- one after

another -- as Stu cowers inside.

A crowd of derelicts and street people are now gathering to

watch the out of control pimp take out his wrath on the booth

and its occupant.

The booth is being decimated but Stu hangs onto the phone.

Stu sees the red dot reappear on Leon's chest as he continues

to barrage the booth with punches and kicks.

Then Leon recoils, staggers a step backward.  He doesn't

realize he's been shot.

There's been no sound of gunfire.  Perhaps a silencer was

used -- or the downtown traffic drowned out the solitary

discharge.

Leon looks confused at first.  His ladyfriend has no idea

he's wounded -- neither do the derelicts and street people

who've assembled on the corner.

Even Stu isn't sure -- until the blood starts oozing from the

wound on the pimp's chest -- staining his yellow vest.

He isn't assaulting the booth anymore.  He's trying to keep

his balance.  He slumps forward, hanging onto the booth for

support -- only a few inches from Stu's face.  The blood runs

down the side of the booth.

Meanwhile, Leon leans upright against the booth.  Then his

legs cave in and he begins to slide to his knees.

Felicia runs up beside him.  She sees the blood.

She screams as Leon topples backwards onto the pavement.  Now

his chest wound is evident.

The crowd tightens around the fallen body.  Street people who

are fascinated but not shocked.

Her focus turns to Stu in the battered phone booth.

The crowd disperses to doorways and around the corner -- out

of immediate range.

Only Felicia remains, leaning over the pimp's body, staring

helplessly.

Stu quickly disconnects the cellular.

Not far away, we hear the BLAST of POLICE SIRENS drawing

closer.

Police cars are pulling up on all sides of Eighth Avenue.

Traffic has suddenly been shut down.  Prowl cars have now

blocked the streets.

PRODUCTION NOTE: Everything is seen from Stu's perspective

without intercuts.

Half a dozen cops now emerge and approach with drawn guns.

As she hurls accusations, she's lugging Leon's lifeless body

out into the gutter into the center of Eighth Avenue.

It's a bright afternoon.  In the distance, we hear the

maddening HONKING of uptown traffic that is now being

rerouted, creating a huge bottleneck and raising the anger of

irate motorists and bus drivers whose horns provide their

simplest form of protest.  It's a discordant concert that

echoes the confusion and frustration which Stu now feels...

As the cops surround the booth -- at a distance.

STU'S POV

A distant crowd gathering on the opposite west side corner

behind the police cars.  Some tourist is capturing the event

on video.

BACK TO STU

Now a black POLICE CAPTAIN arrives and takes full command of

the situation.

The cops take cover behind parked cars, keeping Stu clearly

in their sights.  He has no place to hide.  He's in the

battered phone booth in plain view from all sides.

The Sergeant slides up beside the Captain to confer.

PRODUCTION NOTE: We remain in LONG SHOT of the cops -- always

from Stu's POV.  But we can hear their voices and all that is

said as if they were in close up.  It has an odd, unreal and

distancing effect.

In the center of the street, an ambulance pulls up and a team

of medics jump out.  They rush to Leon's body.  (Again we

hear their voices close, even though visually they are far

off.)

The medics push her aside -- then examine the victim.  He's

DOA.

Far across the street, the Captain confers with his

subordinates.  They are small figures on the screen but we

hear them sharply.

The Captain steps out of cover and boldly approaches the

phone booth.  He stops cautiously about fifteen feet away.

From behind a parked car, a HOMELESS PERSON calls out.

Another DERELICT, crouched in a doorway, joins in.

The Captain begins advancing a few steps closer.

Something about the implied threat sends a chill through

Captain Ramey.

INSERT SHOT

The Captain's head as seen through a telescopic sight.

Ramey could be dead in an instant.

PRODUCTION NOTE: The only time we deviate from Stu's

perspective is when we see the sniper's POV through his

scope.

ANGLE BACK ON STU IN THE BOOTH,

the detective fifteen feet away.

Ramey decides to back off momentarily.

The Captain withdraws back across the street.

We hear the approach of a helicopter.

Stu peers up ward as not one but two choppers appear above

the tall buildings.

The helicopters circle above.

Then, as if on cue, Stu's cellular phone in his pocket starts

ringing.

But he can't allows himself to reach for it.  To do so might

cause the police to believe he was trying to draw his gun.

It rings quietly -- virtually inaudible outside the booth.

Drowned out by the traffic horns, the static from the police

radios and the newly introduced sound of television

helicopters circling over Eighth Avenue taking video coverage

of the event below.

Stu is afraid to reach in his pocket lest the cops think he's

going for a gun.

The cell phone keeps ringing, almost drowned out by the sound

of helicopters circling overhead.

The cellular won't stop ringing.

The cell phone continues beeping until the sound of it is

maddening.  Stu is still afraid to reach for it and provide

the cops with an excuse to open fire.

Finally the cell phone stops ringing.

The damned cell phone starts beeping again.  Stu fights the

temptation to grab for it and hear Kelly's voice for one last

time.

The cellular ringing continues jangling Stu's nerves.

Then Stu notices something in the crowd gathering far across

the street behind the police barricades.  Countless faces

rubbernecking, probably hoping to see some display of

violence that would end with him face down dead on the

pavement.

And in the midst of them -- one face familiar to him.  A

female, quite pretty... even in tears.  It's Kelly.  (We see

her only in LONG SHOT -- a distant figure in bright green

jacket that makes her stand out from the crowd.)

The cellular is still ringing.

There's silence now between them.

Stu doesn't take the bait.  He remains absolutely silent.

A stalemate has been reached.

WE RACK FOCUS ACROSS THE STREET TO THE POLICE

clustered behind an emergency vehicle.  The Sergeant brings a

civilian to meet Captain Ramey of the SWAT unit.  The

newcomer wears coveralls stenciled "AT&T."  (Although they

are very far away, we hear their voices close up as they come

into sharper focus.)

We remain in LONG SHOT of the POLICE as they continue in

heated conversation.

Helfand rushes off.  At the corner, we can glimpse him

entering a phone company utility truck parked on Forty-Fifth

Street.

RACK FOCUS BACK TO PHONE BOOTH

Stu remains tight lipped and silent, refusing to give his

tormentor the conversation he so craves.

Stu resists pleading because he knows his silence is more

powerful.

There's no glass in the left side of the booth since the late

Leon smashed it all out.

Nothing to shatter when the sniper squeezes off his shot.

The frayed yellow phonebook dangling from a chain under the

telephone shudders under the impact of a direct hit.

There's been no sound of a gunshot, but the damage is there

to behold.

Stu reaches for the phonebook.

There's a bullet hole straight through it.  Pieces of the .30

calibre slug have shattered into many tiny fragments and are

imbedded between the pages, half-way through the thick

volume.

Stu pries pieces out of the pages of the directory.  He looks

at them in the palm of his hand.

Stu wants to shout "STOP," but restrains himself.  Not

talking gives him some degree of power.

Stu still declines to answer.  His silence seems his only

weapon.  He tosses the bullet fragments out of the booth onto

the pavement.

Stu realizes the sniper now has Kelly in his sights.

STU'S POV - FOCUS SHIFTS TO KELLY

in the crowd.  Distant yet distinct amongst the curious

onlookers.

JUMP CUT

CLOSER ON KELLY -- OBLIVIOUS TO HER DANGER.

AS SEEN THROUGH CROSS HAIRS OF TELESCOPIC SIGHT

following her as she forces her way through the crowd toward

the police officers.

Her face virtually fills the screen.

PRODUCTION NOTE: The only time we deviate from Stu and his

POV is when we see the sniper's own POV through his

telescopic sight.

SNIPER'S POV

Through the cross hairs of the sniperscope, we can see Kelly

conversing with Captain Ramey.  She's in a state of complete

agitation.

ANGLE ON STU

half leaning out of the booth, staring at his wife and the

cops in the distance.

RACK FOCUS TO THEM --

and suddenly we can hear them clearly in spite of the

distance.

Kelly is left alone as the Captain returns to their command

center.

Kelly is once again a solitary target.  She could be picked

off without attracting undue attention.

BACK TO PHONE BOOTH

Stu hangs up the receiver.  He disconnects.

RACK FOCUS TO LONG SHOT --

The police as they react.  We see a flurry of activity across

the street.  Voices become clear as focus shifts.

RACK FOCUS BACK TO STU --

slowly stepping out of the booth.  His hands are raised.

The SWAT OFFICERS in protective gear now step out of cover

and fan out as they approach the booth.

TIGHTER ON STU

He's just outside the booth -- expecting to feel the sniper's

bullet go through him at any moment.

Then the pay phone starts ringing.

The sniper is calling back.

RACK FOCUS AGAIN

to the police.

All the cops react.  Particularly the Captain and the

Sergeant.  Their voices seem close up when they sharpen in

focus.

The SWAT team backs up but maintain their aim.

Indeed we see Stu re-enter the battered phone booth and pick

up the receiver.

FOCUS RETURNS TO STU

A strange voice begins chattering away in Spanish.  Totally

unintelligible to Stu.

The voice, probably a Puerto Rican gentleman, rattles on in

Spanish.

Then the voice on the phone suddenly alters the Hispanic

accent.  It is the now familiar tone of his tormentor.

Across the street, Stu can see various TV units from local

stations setting up cameras on roofs of trucks.

Stu peers upward at the clouded plastic, now stained and

dirty.  There are shadows of objects above in the shallows

area around the light fixture that automatically goes on when

the door to the phone booth is tightly closed.

Stu opens and closes the door a few times, watching the light

click on -- watching the shadows around the light.

Could that be an accumulation of dirt, dust, or dead insects?

Or could something be stashed up there?

TIGHT SHOT - STU'S FINGERS

feel about inside the shallow space.  The shriveled remains

of dead flies -- a layer of dust -- and then a .30 handgun.

Stu lowers his hand, still empty.

Stu is hearing these words but thinking only of what the man

on the line has done to him.  His turn has come to fight

back.  He has an idea.

If the sniper is focused on Kelly, he can't be watching Stu.

Turning his back to the police, Stu slowly sinks to his

knees.

TIGHT ANGLE --

Stu now down on his knees in the booth.  He's curled up

almost into a fetal position.

By doing so, he hopes to hide the fact that he's reaching

into his pants pocket and pulling out his cellular phone.

He half expects to hear a shot ring out either from the

sniper or the cops.  But nothing happens.

Stu ignores the command.  He's quickly dialing.

911.

He's calling police emergency.

SNIPER'S POV

Stu seen through the cross hairs of the sniperscope,

crouched, doubled up at the foot of the booth.  But the cell

phone is hidden in front of him.

WIDER SHOT - THE BOOTH

with Stu still kneeling.

RACK FOCUS

to police across the street as their voices become clear --

RACK FOCUS BACK TO -- STU IN THE BOOTH

crouched forward.  The pay phone receiver dangles just above

his head.  The cellular remains cupped in his hand.

Stu never lifts the cell phone.  He keeps the palm of his

hand over the speaker of the phone to muffle any sound from

the other end.

It rings and finally someone answers.

But Stu addresses himself loudly to the pay phone which he

now grips in his other hand.  Hoping that his words will be

picked up by the emergency operator listening via the

cellular.  To help in this regard, he reaches back and slides

the door to the booth tightly closed.

He pretends to be talking to the sniper but his words are

meant for the 911 operator to hear.

EXTREME TIGHT SHOT - CELL PHONE

cupped in Stu's hand and held low.  Can they hear him on the

other end?

Stu is concerned that the sniper might hear the voice of the

emergency operator.  He sets the cell phone down flat on the

floor of the booth facing upward.  He puts his foot over the

receiving end to muffle the incoming voice.  Then he stands

up.

Stu talks close into the pay phone receiver now.  But keeps

his voice raised.

There's a pause as the sniper mulls it over.

INSERT SHOT - THE CELL PHONE

lying face up on the floor of the booth.  Is anybody

listening?

BACK TO STU

Stu looks down at the cellular.  He has no way of knowing if

the police operator can hear any of his words.

WE RACK FOCUS AWAY TO LONG SHOT - THE POLICE

assembled on the opposite side of the street.

Ramey begins to listen.  We hear snatches of Stu's call

picking up words which are at times incomprehensible.

The uniformed TELEPHONE TECHNICIAN now joins Ramey and the

Sergeant.

BACK INSIDE PHONE BOOTH

Stu's arm goes up in a supreme act of willpower.

His fingers run along the two clouded plastic sheets that

cover the roof of the booth.  It raises up easily at the

middle where two sheets join.

TIGHT INSERT SHOT

The space between the roof of the booth and the sheets of

clouded plastic.  We see the fluorescent lighting fixture

covered with dust.  The solitary object -- a cruel-looking

weapon.

Now Stu's fingertips protrude into the small space.  He

touches the gun, brushes back and forth, feeling the

roughness of the grip.

TIGHT SHOT - STU'S FACE

as below he continues to hesitate -- it's agony --

The sweat pours down his forehead and his eyes are squeezed

tightly shut.  He can already imagine the police bullets

tearing into him.

A POLICE SNIPER IS MOVING INTO POSITION.

RACK BACK TO STU - IN THE BOOTH

His arm still raised.  He hasn't brought it down with the gun

in it.  Not yet.  He holds the pay phone receiver jammed up

against his mouth.

He pulls the handgun down into full view.  Curiously, the

police do not open fire.

He waves the gun so nobody can miss it.

He drops the receiver and steps halfway out of the booth.

Still the cops do not open fire.

Then Stu starts shooting.

Not at the police, but at the high rise buildings across the

street.

At the thousands of windows that look down upon him.

He gets off two shots before a solitary rifle shot rings out

in response.

RACK FOCUS TO THE POLICE SNIPER

He has fired.

ANGLE ON STU

The remaining glass on the south side of the booth shatters.

Stu tumbles forward, sprawling out of the booth onto the

pavement.

RACK FOCUS TO KELLY

She screams, tries to break through but cops restrain her.

INT.  PHONE BOOTH

ANGLE ON DANGLING RECEIVER

as it sways back and forth.  From it, we hear the voice.

THEN THERE ARE OTHER SOUNDS EMANATING FROM THE DANGLING

SWAYING PHONE.

A wooden door being battered open.  A few incomprehensible

shouts as a SWAT TEAM dashes in.  Stu's stalling for time has

paid off.

THE SOUND OF A BARRAGE OF GUNFIRE.

THE SOUND OF A MUFFLED SCREAM.

The police have broken in on Stu's tormentor and there has

been a rapid exchange of shots.

A HAND reaches into the booth and grabs the receiver.

ANGLE WIDENS as Ramey places it to his ear.

He drops the receiver so that it dangles again.

CAMERA FOLLOWS RAMEY to where Stu lies surrounded by cops and

medics.  He's stunned, but very much alive.

Kelly is now brought over by a female cop.  She drops to her

knees beside Stu and tries to embrace him.  The medics

restrain her.

A gurney is wheeled over from a police ambulance.  The medic

is about to administer the hypo but Stu pushes him away.

The medics are now ready to lift Stu onto the gurney and cart

him off.  But Stu struggles against them.

The woman cop escorts Kelly to the waiting ambulance.

Ramey meanwhile tries to resume contact with the SWAT team

inside the hotel.

There's nothing but static, mixed up feedback and multiple

garbled voices on the other end of the line.

He crosses back to the phone booth -- picks up the dangling

receiver.

Ramey looks back to where the medics are still trying to lift

Stu onto the gurney.

The medics support Stu and inch him back to the booth.  It's

painful, but Stu ignores it.

Ramey holds the phone up so Stu can both listen and speak.

There's more violent coughing, then silence.  Then a cop's

voice is heard.

Stu stares at the receiver.

Stu reaches over and hangs up the receiver.  CLICK.

Then he sinks into the arms of the medics who lower him onto

the waiting gurney.

The hypo is finally administered.  It kicks in immediately,

relieving the pain.

He's wheeled away from the booth to the waiting ambulance.

Kelly is already inside waiting to accompany Stu to the

hospital.

STU'S POV - BEING WHEELED AWAY FROM THE EMPTY BOOTH

pulling away in LOW ANGLE.

CAMERA SLIDES BACK inside the ambulance with Stu.  The doors

shut, obliterating our view of the phone booth that was his

entire world until moments ago.

Kelly smiles down at him as the image blurs.  Stu passes out

-- into a deep sleep he much deserves.

A SIREN BLARES.

CUT TO BLACK.

