Originally featured at:

Shooting Script

September, 1996

TITLES EXPLODE TO WHITE

SLOW FADE TO:

EXTREME CLOSE-UP of MAXIMILIAN COHEN'S eyes popping open.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT -CHINATOWN FLAT  NEW YORK CITY - NIGHT

Max jolts his head from his desk and tries to orient him-self

in the darkness. He has intelligent eyes set in an exhausted,

good-looking face.

Then he notices the blood dripping from his nose. Max wipes

it.

Max's voiceover begins:

INT. BATHROOM - DAWN

A pull-string light flips on. Max examines his bloody nose in

the mirror.

TIGHT ON

Max's hand as three unmarked, circular pills hit his palm.

Then, he slams the pills into the back of his mouth.

Max replaces the cap on a plastic bottle of unmarked

prescription drugs. He drinks from the sink and splashes a

generous amount of water onto his head and face, cleaning his

nose.

He wipes his nose and examines the last remnants of blood on

his fingertip. Then, he dips his finger under the tap.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - MAIN ROOM - DAY

Max's room is constantly dark because the windows are blacked

out. He flips on his desk lamp.

A tiny ANT crawls across his desk. He looks at it for a moment

before getting angry and squashing it.

Sitting on the desk are three computer monitors, which Max

flips on.

Then he pops on more lights and more switches. We pull back

revealing that Max's apartment looks more like the inside of a

computer than a human's home.

The room is knee-high in computer parts of all shapes and

sizes. The walls are covered with circuit boards. Cables hang

from the ceiling like vines in a Brazilian rain forest. They

all seem to be wired together forming a monstrous homemade

computer.

This is EUCLID, Max's creation. The computer is alive with

sounds and lights.

Max works on Euclid with his solder and drill. He cares for

the machine as if it were his dream car

Max checks the peephole on His front door. No one is there. He

unbolts the five lock and slides into the hall.

INT. APARTMENJ HALLWAY - DAY

As he secures his apartment, a Young girl named JENNA runs up

to him. Her MOM, down the hall, looks apologetic.

Jenna's eyes light up and she pulls out her Fisher Price

calculator.

Jenna types it into her calculator. Max finishes locking his

door.

Max heads down the staircase.

Jenna screams after him.

EXT. CHINATOWN - DAY

Max watches people bustle through the busy intersections of

Chinatown. The streets are clogged with people.

EXT. ELECTRONIC MEGADUMP - DAY

Max scavenges electronic parts as he carefully navigates an

endless dump for old and rotting computers.

He unscrews a random IBM Board from a keyboard and slides it

into his pocket.

EXT PLAYGROUND  DAY

MOVE IN

on Max looking up at something as he reclines on a public

bench.

MOVE IN

on a tree branch - shaking gently in the wind.

SLOW DISSOLVE TO EXTREME CLOSE-UP OF STOCK TICKER

Bright stock quotes drift across the screen.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max stares intensely at the ticker on the small TV that sits

next to his monitors.

Max watches the right edge of the screen where the numbers

appear. He wants to see what's before that edge...

Max slaps the RETURN button on his computer.

The phone starts ringing.

Max eyes it suspiciously.

Just then, Euclid starts printing results on an old dot-

matrix printer.

Max suspiciously answers The phone.

The printer finishes printing.

Max hurries to wrap up the conversation.

But before Marcy finishes, Max hangs up. He rips off the

printout and heads to the front door.

He checks the peephole, His landlady. MRS. OVADIA, is sweeping

the hallway stairs humming a turn-of-the century (the last

one, not this one) tune.

Max waits a moment. He tousles his hair. Then he checks again.

She's gone. He opens his locks and releases several bolts.

INT.MAX'S BUILDING HALLWAY - DAY

Max locks his front door. Meanwhile, his next-door neighbor,

DEVI MINSTRY, a sexy young Indian woman, is just getting home.

Max looks away and tries to get his door locked.

She's weighted down by a bunch of bags filled with food.

Devi heads over to Max with her bags of food. She looks up at

Max.

Devi hands the bags to Max. Then she goes to pat down his

Hair. Max retreats.

Devi pats down his hair. Max is humiliated.

Max hands back the bags and heads quickly for the stairs.

An embarrassed Max takes the bag.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

At the counter, Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he takes

three pills from the plastic bottle and drops them in his

coffee.

Max flips past a full-page ad in the paper that reads

LANCET-PERCY 86% ACCURACY (ONLY GOD IS PERFECT).

Max flips the page before he or we can absorb it. He compares

stock quotes in the Wall Street Journal against his printout.

Max marks up the paper with lines and diagrams as he ponders

his bits and misses.

Then a puff of cigarette smoke drifts by and succeeds in

bothering Max. He fans it away when

Max shrugs and looks over.

The voice belongs to LENNY MEYERa bearded man in his late 20s

sucking on a cigarette.

On closer inspection, something is off. It seems that Lenny is

an Orthodox Jew. His yarmulke sticks out Slightly from his

wide-brimmed hat and the fringes from his tsi-tsis hang out

from the bottom of his untucked shirt.

Lenny sticks out his hand. Max responds with a small nod.

Max shrugs and turns back to his work.

Max has no idea what Lenny's talking about. Lenny pulls a

leather box with black leather straps from his pocket.

And then Max notices that his thumb is twitching He grabs it

self-consciously.

Just then, Max pays his bill and prepares to leave.

INT. MAX'S BATHROOM - NIGHT

Max splashes water on his face.

He pulls a metal vaccinating gun out of the medicine cabinet.

Then be loads it with a small bottle of medicine. He rolls up

his sleeve, dabs alcohol on his arm, and fires the gun into

his arm.

Next door, he hears Devi and her boyfriend talking.

Max slaps himself in the face a few times.

Max watches his thumb twitch. And then pain shoots through

him. He grabs the right side of his head, massages it, and

pushes it in with his fingers.

In the mirror, he examines the right side of his scalp. He

sees nothing

Max walks back into the

MAIN ROOM

and sits down in a chair. The lamp is blinding so he

snaps it off. Only the bathroom light lights the room. He

takes a few breaths.

His neighbors conversation begins to build in volume

and distortion.

Max gags and rubs his head.

The pain seems to disappear. Max looks at his hand that was

rubbing his bead.

Then he looks at the front door. The doorknob seems to

move.

Something begins knocking on Max's door. The knocking gets

louder and louder then the locks begin to unlock.

FARROUHK's words begin to overpower Max.

Then something starts pounding the door. The doorknob quivers,

the locks unbolt. The chains are the only thing keeping out

the intruder. The door shakes and the chains are strained.

MAX is paralyzed with terror.

And then the door smashes open. Blinding light fills the room

and we crash into the

BLINDING WHITE VOID

A moment of silence, then we

CUT TO

INT. BATHROOM - DAWN

A phone rings incessantly. Max's eyes pop open. He's scrunched

up in a corner of the room, squashed beneath the sink.

His nose is bleeding.

Max, crawls into the

MAIN ROOM

and picks up the phone. He pinches his nose and tilts his head

back.

Max heads to the

FRONT DOOR

and checks the locks. He is barely listening to Marcy

The locks seem secure.

Max tries to stop her but, before he can Marcy hangs up.

A bewildered Max slowly hangs up.

Max checks the peephole - all clear.

Then, he opens his -

CLOSET

which is filled with random computer parts and boxes.

He pulls a thick neuroscience book from a shelf in the back of

the closet. He almost knocks over an old dusty brass

microscope on the shelf.

Max flips through the book. It contains old plates

illustrating the brain. Max examines some of the diagrams.

EXT. S0L'S HALLWAY - DAY Max rings the bell on an apartment

door.

A few moments pass, and then SOL ROBESON opens the door.

Sol is a wise-looking man in his early 70's. He walks with

difficulty, leaning out of breath on a wooden cane.

His arms are covered with faded Russian prison tattoos and he

speaks with a thick Eastern European accent, He's happy to see

Max.

Max is happy to see Sol, but he's a bit bashful and

intimidated.

EXT. SOL'S STUDY - MOMENTS LATER

TIGHT ON the Japanese game of Go being played. Sol is white

and Max is black. Sol's moves are secure and controlled while

Max is hesitant.

Sol changes the subject. He feeds his goldfish and points to

one of them.

Max looks up at Sol.

INT. MOVING TRAIL - DAY

Max sits in the corner of a rickety New York City subway car.

The train is almost completely deserted.

Max looks down at his hand. He opens his palm and reveals a

black Go chip.

Max notices a SKINNY MAN in a business suit staring at him.

The man catches Max's eye and looks away, but then he quickly

looks back, making Max turn away.

He looks down at his Wall Street journal and draws a circle

with its diameter then he writes "A=pir2" and "C=2pir." Next

he writes "pi=3.14159..."

Suddenly, Max hears someone singing. Max looks up. It is the

Skinny Man and he's singing with passion. It's all very

strange to Max, who nervously looks away.

And then the singing stops

mid-verse Max looks up and the man is gone. Vanished. Max

looks aroundno one in Sight.

INT. APARTMENT STAIRCASE - DAY

Max heads up the stairs to his apartment. Just then, a toy

SLINKY appears from nowhere marching down the stairs.

Max stops and waits until the Slinky hits his foot. He picks

it up and looks at it.

He looks around wondering what's going on. Then Jenna leans

out over a railing and starts laughing at Max.

INT. COFFEE SHOP-DAY

Max sits at the counter frantically looking at the Wall Street

Journal. He plops three pills into his coffee.

He draws circles and other shapes across the page.

Max is interrupted by a puff of smoke. At the same time,

someone touches his shoulder and says:

Lenny pulls out a worn' dog-eared Bible from his pocket. There

are paper slips marking what seems like every other page. When

he opens it up,

Max sees that the pages are marked up by highlighter pens,

notes and diagrams.

Lenny points to the text. EXTREME CLOSE-UP of Hebrew letters.

Lenny pulls out a pen and grabs Max's Journal. He writes on it

as he talks.

The waitress refills Max's coffee.

Satisfied, Lenny lights up a cigarette and takes a drag.

Lenny exhales the smoke. Max quickly graphs the number on his

Wall Street Journal.

Lenny's smoke drifts by Max's eyes.

SLOW MOTION: MAX'S POV of smoke spirals spinning in front of

him.

SLOW MOTION: Max looks down at his coffee cup. He pours cream

into his coffee. It shoots up and mixes with the black coffee

forming spirals in the mug.

SLOW MOTION: Max looks at the spiral he just drew on the Wall

Street Journal.

NORMAL SPEED Suddenly, Max stands up.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max draws spirals all over his Wall Street Journal. Then he

takes a thick black marker and draws a giant spiral across the

entire page.

Max is ecstatic as he pounds code into the computer takes

moments to wake up, drops pills, and drinks a Ginseng soda.

Max traces a big circle on the journal. Then, he cuts it out

with an X-acto blade. He cuts out the middle of the circle so

that be has a thin loop like one of those futuristic frisbees.

He tears part of the loop and stretches the circle out in

front of him into a spiral.

Max is about to slap RETURN but he stops himselfhe's nervous.

Next door, Devi and her boyfriend are making love. He looks at

the wall with disdain. Then he looks back at the screen,

shrugs and confidently slaps RETURN on his keyboard.

Stock prices float across the screen. Max can't believe his

eyesthe quotes are absurd.

And then, Euclid crashes. The electricity in Max's room flips

off. The numbers on Max's screen fade to black. In near (minus

streetlights) darkness:

TIGHT ON A FUSE BOX

Max removes a fuse. He replaces it with a penny.

MAX'S ROOM

Max tries to reboot Euclid, but nothing happens. He tries a

second time, but nothing happens.

Devi and Farrouhk are still at it.

Max puts on a pair of latex gloves. He dons a surgical mask.

He climbs up to a loft above his monitors. A glass case, fed

cool air by a vent tube, encases some computer parts. He

carefully removes the front glass cover.

Then he gets it off he's stunned. Not only have the chips

melted down, but a strange flaky substance covers the board.

Max grabs his face, frustrated.

Deri and Farroakk are giggling, having a great time. Max

stares at the wall.

Then he angrily throws Euclid's mainframe onto the ground It

lands with a SMASH!

Under the mainframe is a small city of ANTS. They scramble for

cover. Max furiously attacks them, stomping them out with his

bands.

Then he jumps on the smashed mainframe. He slides to

the ground and covers his face.

DISSOLVE TO

EXT. PLAYGROUND - DAY

TIGHT ON a tree branch shaking manically in the wind.

Max sits on a park bench watching the branch shake. It

terrifies him.

He pulls out the printout of his picks and examines them.

He crumples up his picks and tosses them into a public trash

can.

INT. SOL'S STUDY - DAY

Sol and Max play Go. Sol is peaceful while Max is distant.

Max plays a piece absently. Sol counters with a deafening

atari. Max whispers:

Sol begins to feed his fish. He points to one.

PUBLIC BENCH - MOMENTS LATER

Max waits for his train on an empty platform.

Just then, he hears a DRIPPING sound. Max looks up and notices

something across the tracks on the other platform. He can't

quite make it out because his vision is blocked by columns.

He gets up and spots a Young Hasidic Man standing at him.

Blood drips from the Man's hand. Max doesn't know what to make

of it

A TRAIN SWISHES BY -

INT. MOVING TRAIN - LATER

Max reads an ad that says In big block letters 'MOSHIAC IS

COMING!' He checks out a few of the other passengers. Then he

notices a man reading a newspaper across from him.

The headline reads: 'MARKET TAKES NOSE-DIVE. Max jumps up and

approaches the man.

The man hands Max the paper. Max scans the article. Then He

quickly turns to the listings. His finger barrels down a

column. It stops at ABR.

Max looks up the column for AAR.

Max stumbles toward the doors. He looks out the window: into

the darkness of the tunnel.

Max hands the paper back and looks at the man for the first

time. It is the Skinny Man he saw earlier.

Max gets suspicious and moves into the next car.

AT GRAND STREET

Max exits. He notices that the Skinny Man gets off - one car

down - as well.

He hustles toward the exit. As he's about to turn a corner he

looks back. The man seems to be following him.

He dodges around a corner and heads up a staircase.

EXT. TRAIN STATION - DAY

He seems to have lost him, when he notices a business-woman

with a pretty face heading right toward him. It is MARCY

DAWSON.

Marcy sticks out her hand. Max, not knowing what else to do,

shakes it.

Marcy hasn't let go of Max's hand.

She guides him toward a large black street limo that's just

pulled up.

Max attempts to pull away but Marcy is firm on leading him to

the car. Meanwhile, the Shinny man is heading right at them.

The CHAUFFEUR reaches out to him. Max yanks his arm free and

runs away. He whips around a corner.

INT. BODEGA - DAY

Max barrels into the grocery store and buys a Journal. He

heads to the back of the store and lays the paper across the

juice section. He checks the listing.

Max turns the page on the Journal and sees the Lancet-Percy

ad. Then he notices one of the bodega owners staring at him.

EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max scouts his front door. The coast is clear.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max examines the smashed Euclid mainframe. He uncovers some of

the strange filo-like substance. He carefully touches it. Then

he grabs a small pinch of it.

He examines it near a light bulb. He can't guess what it is.

He sniffs it. He carefully tastes it with the very tip of his

tongue. He still doesn't have a clue.

Max opens his closet. He pulls out his dusty brass microscope.

He dusts it off. Next, he pulls out a slide Kit.

Max places the instrument on the windowsill. He grabs an old

glass slide and puts some of the flaky stuff on it. He slides

it under the microscope. He looks into the lens, but doesn't

see anything.

He gets up quickly and heads for the

HALLWAY

where he looks at Devi's door, nervously. He gathers his

courage and knocks on her door. Through the door hears.

Devi opens the door wearing a sexy nightshirt.

She heads to her bathroom. Max waits impatiently.

She hands Max a bottle of iodine.

MAX'S ROOM - MOMENTS LATER

Max uses his pinky to drip a drop of iodine on the slide.

Through the wall he hears Farrouhk arriving home.

Max listens to the conversation for a few moments.

Max shakes his bead. Then he finishes preparing the slide and

slips the glass under the turret.

Max catches the low-hanging sun in the microscope's mirror and

reflects it through the sample and up the turret

into his eye.

MAX'S POV DOWN THE TURRET of some strange

Substance.

Max pulls out the slide and looks at it.

Then an idea comes to him. He takes out his brain book. He

looks through it until he finds a picture of neurons. He

compares the image to the view through the turret. They look

different but there are similarities.

Max rushes out.

EXT. PLAYGROUND - LATE AFTERNOON

Max sifts through the trash can where he threw his picks from

yesterday. Frustrated, he dumps the trash onto the sidewalk

and starts looking through it Mrs. Ovadia watches him.

Max sees her and is embarrassed for a moment.

Max looks back at the trash And forgets about Mrs. Ovadia.

Soon, Max gets up and kicks the trashcan. He heads home.

IN FRONT OF MAX'S APARTMENT BUILDING

Max watches Marcy get out of the limo and call to Mrs. Ovadia.

Max backs away when he smacks into someone.

It's Lenny Meyer - the young Jewish man.

Max jumps back in fear.

Max tries to quickly pass him.

Max turns around and notices Marcy talking to Mrs. Ovadia.

Mrs. Ovadia points up the street

toward him.

We swing around with Max and see a station wagon.

EPHRAIM sits in the passenger Seat. He's a big-boned, bearded,

Orthodox Jew.

They head for the station wagon.

INT. BASEMENT SHUL - NIGHT

The synagogue is a claustrophobic, fluorescent-lit room in

general disarray. Two rows of imitation-wooden pews face a

makeshift altar and Ark. Young Hasidic Men study texts. Some

work alone, reading and dovening. Others are in small groups

sharing in heated discussions.

Lenny wraps the Tefillin around Max's arm. Max just wants to

get out of there. Ephraim prays in the background.

Lenny finishes wrapping Max's arm. He reaches for another box

and strap.

Max, stunned looks at Lenny.

Lenny places the other Teffilin over Max's head. Max collects

himself.

Bewildered, Max does. After the prayer...

Lenny starts removing the Teffillin from Max.

EXT. SOL'S APARTMENT - DAWN

Max firmly rings SOL's bell.

In a few moments, Sol answers the door in his pajamas.

INT. SOL'S KITCHEN - MOMENTS LATER

Max sits at the kitchen table while Sol heats up a pot of tea.

Max is shaking.

INT. SOL'S STUDY - MOMENTS LATER

Sol and Max sit on either side of a half-played Go board.

Max looks at his bands.

Max gives a half nod.

EXT. SOL'S APARTMENT - MORNING

Max rushes to the subway when a honking horn stops him. A limo

pulls up next to him. Marcy Dawson jumps out of the car

Max stops and faces Marcy.

Marcy hands Max a metal stopwatch.

The chauffeur pulls a black suitcase out of the limo and

brings it over.

Max starts to move away.

But then, Max notices that his thumb is twitching.

Max trots off.

INT. SUBWAY STATION - PUBLIC BENCH - NIGHT

The station is strangely silent. It is also extremely rundown.

The tracks are rusted and fucked up. All we hear is the sound

of DRIPPING WATER. The sound is warped and grows and morphs

until it's downright scary.

Max sits on a bench sucking down pills. His head begins to

hurt. He touches the right side of his scalp and nubs it.

As the blood surges through his head it brings him waves of

pain. He gags several times. Then the pain lets loose and all

Max wants to do is die. He smashes the side of his head with

his fist.

Across the tracks on the far platform he sees someone.

For a moment Max's pain dissipates. His view is obscured by

the columns. Max gets up and sees the Young Hasidic Man - from

earlier - staring at him.

The Man stares at Max without any emotion. Max notices blood

dropping from the Man's right hand.

Max looks at the Man's face and sees for a split second his

own face staring back.

Max charges up a flight of stairs. He crosses a passage over

the tracks and flies down the stairs to the other side of the

platform.

The Man is gone. A pool of blood sits where the Man was. Max

touches it with his toe. It's sticky. He notices a trail of

blood leading off from the pool.

He follows it around a corner where it leads into a corner.

He notices something strange in the shadows. He carefully

advances on it. Hiding in the shadows is what looks like a

small piece of brain. It seems to be moving slightly.

Max uses a pen in his jacket to carefully touch it.

Suddenly, Max hears a train's HONK HONK behind him. Max spins

around. Nothing is there but silence.

He turns back to the gray matter. He touches it again. Once

again, he hears the deafening HONK HONK. Max spins around, but

nothing is there.

Frustrated, he pushes his pen deep into the brain - fiber

ripping apart.

Suddenly, a TRAIN is barreling down on Max. Seconds from

impact, Max SCREAMS!!!

DISSOLVE TO

BLINDING WHITE VOID

We hear two deep, long sleep-filled breaths and then we CUT

TO:

INT. SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY

Max's eyes pop open. A TRANSIT COP is sticking him with a

nightstick.

Max sits up. His nose is bleeding. The cop hands him a tissue.

Max wipes his nose and looks around nervously.

He sees the rides of Coney Island in the distance.

EXT. CONEY ISLAND BEACH - DAY

Max sits on a boulder on a Coney Island jetty. He watches the

sea.

Then Max sees an old man dressed like KING NEPTUNE scanning

the shore with a rusty metal detector. The old man picks up

something. He admires it for a moment before gently setting it

back on the ground. Then Neptune continues his search.

Max wanders over to the place where the old man exam

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

MAX'S POV through the microscope. Max sees the brain

structures.

Just then, there's a KNOCK on the door. The knock startles him

and his hand bumps the turret of the microscope. The lens

moves and he realizes that the magnification can be changed.

A KNOCK again.

Max looks out the peephole and sees nothing. Confused,

Looks down at his thumb. It's not shaking. He heads back to

his microscope.

There's a knock again. Max angrily unlocks the door and whips

it open.

IN THE HALLWAY is Jenna with her calculator.

Max shuts the door and returns to the microscope. He changes

the magnification. At a weaker magnification, the

mathematician sees that the cells are grouped in spirals.

Max is stunned, He grabs the phone and pulls a business card

out of his pocket He quickly dials a number.

Someone answers with a "Shalom" on the other end of the line.

Max asks for Lenny Meyer and is put on hold.

Max looks into the microscope. He stares at the spirals.

DISSOLVE FROM TURRET TO:

SATELLITE IMAGE OF SPINNING TORNADO

Start in tight on the epicenter and pull out to reveal the

entire storm.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT  DAY

EUCLID'S INNARDS

Max uses a drill to rip out some old parts. He lays new wire

and does a bunch of soldering.

He rips down a bunch of old papers and does a general

housecleaning.

He also goes to school on the ant population in his apartment.

He plants some ant motels and sprays the room with. a pest

killer.

TIGHT ON MAX writing a : b : : b : a + b.

He draws it over a copy of Leonardo Da Vinci's famous

drawing of man s anatomy.

TIGHT ON MAX carefully measuring out a golden rectangle.

The rectangle fits perfectly over Leonardo Da Vinci's Man.

TIGHT ON MAX squaring rectangle after rectangle. Then he draws

the golden spiral through the rectangles.

MONTAGE OF IMAGES

The images mirror what Max talks about. We see NAUTILUS

SHELLS, SUNFLOWERS, PLANTS, RAM HORNS, HUMAN FINGERPRINTS, THE

MILKY WAY, and DNA STRANDS.

EXT. CHINATOWN - DAY

Max wanders through the crowded streets of Chinatown.

DISSOLVE TO

PAN ACROSS NEW EUCLID

We start on the stock ticker and pull out to reveal a leaner,

meaner and more exciting machine.

He holds two wires apart from each other as he contemplates

what will connect them.

EXT. ELECTRONIC MEGADUMP - DAY

Max wanders helplessly through the dump. There's nothing but

junk and more junk.

EXT. PUBLIC PAY PHONE - DAY

Max eyes Marcy Dawson's business card, suspiciously He dials

the number. A man answers on the other line.

Max is put on hold. He notices a man in a business suit

watching him. Max turns away.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - DAY

Max sits at the counter. The POST headline in front of him

reads MARKET DOOMED. PRESIDENT IN PANIC, WORLD LEADERS MEET.

Max flips to the stock quotes. He can't believe how far things

have dovetailed. He shakes his head in disbelief when an

envelope appears in front of him. It belongs to Lenny Meyer.

EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DUSK

Max marches into his foyer when he's suddenly ambushed by

Devi's boyfriend, Farrouhk. Farrouhk is a little guy with a

big sadistic smile.

He grabs Max by the collar and slams him against the wall. His

fist butts up against Max's chin.

Farrouhk tosses Max against the wall. Max whimpers off to his

apartment. Farrouhk has enjoyed this and to end his game be

gives Max a small slap on the butt.

INSIDE HIS APARTMENT Max bolts the front door.

At his desk he rips open the envelope Lenny Meyer gave him. He

pulls out a BLACK DISK and eyes it expectantly.

Next door, he hears Farrouhk and Devi talking.

Then, Max carefully slips the DISK into Euclid's drive. Hebrew

characters pop onto Euclid's screen. Max pounds in several

strings of code lightning fast.

The Hebrew letters suddenly switch to their numerical

counterparts. Max toggles between Hebrew and numbers a few

timesimpressed.

Max nods. Then there's a knock at the door.

Max peeks through the peephole. Two well-dressed large men,

BRAD and ABE THE BABE, wait for the signal. MAX knocks and the

suits leave.

Then Max shyly opens up his front door and quickly grabs the

black attache case in front of his door

Donning a surgical mask and latex gloves, Max opens the black

attache case. Sitting in foam is a tiny but beautiful chip.

Max studies it with awe.

Max carefully carries the chip over to the new leaner Euclid.

He welds it into Euclid's waiting wires.

Then he lifts his hand to slap the RETURN button, but a sudden

wave of fear stops him.

He gets up and grabs a Ginseng soda from the fridge He drops

eight pills in the can. He calmly takes a sip from the soda

and places it on the counter.

Max can hear Devi and Farrouhk starting to make love. Their

gentle sounds

drift through the wall.

ON THE SCREEN is a long string of zeros.

At the bottom of the screen Euclid's cursor blinks, waiting

for instructions.

He smacks RETURN again Max gets the same empty result.

Euclid's cursor blinks, waiting. Max starts to laugh. He

laughs and laughs and laughs.

But then he notices his thumb twitching. He rubs his scar.

His neighbor's love sounds start to get rough. They're having

fun.

Max almost throws up.

THE BATHROOM

Max dry heaves in the sink. Then he forces himself to stand in

front of the mirror.

He grabs the gun and tries to roll up his sleeve. He can't get

it to roll up. Suddenly he's overwhelmed by pain. He quickly

rips his shirt and fires the gun into his arm.

Nothing happens. He checks the barrelits empty

He grabs a bottle of medicine but knocks them an into the

sink.

He cuts his finger as be grabs one of the broken bottles. He

loads the gun and fires the medicine into his arm. A wave of

pain and nausea floods in. He grabs another bottle and fires

it into his arm. Then he fires another and another.

Frustrated he collapses into the mirror.

Slightly sobbing he examines his scalp pulling his hair apart.

He sees something.

So he takes out a scissors and starts removing some hair.

Meanwhile his neighbors' lovemaking gets more intense. Their

screams carry into Max's head.

Max finishes removing a patch of hair from the right side

of his head. He has uncovered a light scar on his head. He

examines it in the mirror.

Then his neighbors' lovemaking turns outright evil. It

sounds like Sodom and Gomorrah next door and Max

can barely stand it.

A jolt of pain surges into his head. He grabs his scar as he

vomits blood into the sink.

He starts banging his head against the mirror. He bangs

his head again and again until the mirror CRACKS!

His neighbors are cumming and their cries of joy are twisted

and agonizing.

The mathematician looks at himself and begins to sob. He

reloads the gun and fires it right into the scar on his head,

where the pain is coming from.

Max collapses to the ground in complete agony until the bare

bulb in the bathroom starts blinking on and off.

Suddenly the pain is gone.

Then he hears something. It's Euclid, buzzing with life. He

gets to his feet and head's into Euclid.

The main monitor is screaming with numbers. The lights in the

room flicker on and off like on a disco dance floor. A

filo substance billows out of Euclid.

And then a number pops onto the screen. Max estimates how many

digits are on the screen.

Max grabs a piece of paper and a pencil. He starts writing

down the number. He mumbles each digit as he sees it.

But then be stops writing. Power surge! He stares at the

number. Something clicks in his head. His eyes go wide. He

barely musters a

We move closer and closer into the number, deeper and deeper

into the screen. Until finally a single pixel fills the screen

and we're in the

BLINDING WHITE VOID where we hear several deep peaceful

breaths.

Then, a fuse blows and we cut to:

BLACK

A phone ringing...once...

twice...then we hear

FADE BACK INTO THE MAIN ROOM Max's eyes slowly open.

The landlady, Mrs. Ovadia, and Farrouhk, brandishing a

crowbar, stand over him.

Max looks at Euclid. The screen is blank. He looks at the

mainframe. It is covered with the filo substance. Then be

looks at the piece of paper he wrote the number on. Only a few

dozen numbers are on the page. The last number be wrote is

barely a scribble.

He starts reciting the numbers. Then Max suddenly realizes

something. He continues reciting the numbers from memory.

He points to his head.

Mrs. Ovadia starts looking at all the junk in the room.

Max finally realizes that all these strangers are in his womb.

He flips.

The phone starts ringing again.

The three neighbors retreat to the front door.

Max slams the door in their faces.

Max rubs his chin and looks around the room. He starts

saying the number to himself He gets more and more

excited as he reads each digit.

INT. COFFEE SHOP - NIGHT

Max stirs cream into his coffee. Then he pulls out the

Journal.

A phone continues to RING.

In the clouds of the Lancet-Percy ad - in The Journal Max

writes down the two hundred and sixteen digit number. He

studies it, examines it, draws on it, tries to figure out what

it is.

We hear a phone being picked up. The ringing stops. Silence,

then:

We hear the sound of a phone hanging up.

At the coffee counter, Max pops a handful of pills and

crumples the paper.

INT. MAX'S BATHROOM - LATER

Max stares at his BALD head in the mirror. All of his hair has

been removed. A fleshy scar sits on his scalp above his right

ear.

Max ignores the incessantly RINGING phone.

Max flips through an old neuroscience book. He examines a few

illustrations and finds the part of his brain that's killing

him.

With a thick black marker, he carefully outlines the part of

his head that is causing the pain.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT-LATER

Max sits in his chair staring at the stock market monitor. The

phone continues to RING.

Numbers drift by.

A single beam of sunlight leaks through the window and shines

on the edge of the screen. Walking along the edge in the

sunlight is a tiny ant.

Max gets up to squash it. But as he gets closer he suddenly

feels mercy. He looks at the ant in awe.

And then, his attention switches to the ticker.

Max states the numbers right before they enter onto the

screen.

Max strains to figure out what is going an. Suddenly, he's

overwhelmed with fear.

INT. SOL'S APARTMENT - DUSK

Max charges into the room. Sot is looking at his Go board. Sol

looks up when Max comes in.

Sol doesn't respond.

Sol sighs. He looks down at the board and collects himself.

Max does.

Max doesn't respond.

Max stands up and screams down at Sol.

Sol grabs his cane and whacks the Go board.

Sol swings his cane as Max heads for the door.

INT. SUBWAY - PORT AUTHORITY - NIGHT

Max paces on a downtown train as it pulls into 42nd Street.

Through the open doors, Max notices a YOUNG PHOTOGRAPHER in

jeans and a leather jacket photographing him from the uptown

platform.

Max is enraged and screams at him. The man ducks behind a

column, but a few moments later he's back snapping pictures.

The doors start to shut, but Max uses his body to get

off the train.

The Photographer sees him coming and flees.

Max follows the man's movement on his platform. When the young

man shoots up the exit stairs, Max does so as well.

Max catches a glimpse of his foe entering the catacombs

heading toward Times Square. Max pursues.

Max chases him down a looooong passage.

But he loses him at an underground five-way fork in the road.

One staircase is Uptown and Queens...

another is Brooklyn...one other is unlabeled.

Still enraged, Max marches forward Just then, he catches a

glimpse of the Photographer exiting the station.

SMASH TO

EXT. TIMES SQUARE - NEON NIGHT

In the heart of New York, Max spins around searching for his

foe.

His frustration mounts until out of the comer of his eye he

sees a strange reflection. Not knowing what it's of, he turns

around to see the source The reflection is from a giant,

brilliant stock ticker - 50 yards long and luminous.

Max stares at the quotes They are hypnotizing and Max is

suddenly calm.

Then, Max has a premonition. He turns and spots the

Photographer in front of a porn shop on Eighth and 42nd.

EXT. PORN SHOP - 42ND STREET - NIGHT

Max whacks the Photographer against a back-lit image of a

Hustler Centerfold. The man screams.

The photographer hands Max his wallet.

Max grabs the kid's camera.

The Photographer pulls out his student ID. Max looks at it.

Then he rips out the film-exposing it.

Max hands the man back his camera and leaves.

EXT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max heads home in a furious state. Suddenly, he sees two of

Marcy's men blocking his path. It's Brad and Jake, yet another

tough guy, and they don't look happy. Max spins around and

sees Marcy Dawson blocking his exit.

Max retreats.

Max looks back at the tough guys who are almost on top of him.

Marcy releases a vicious slap that nearly knocks Max down. Max

whimpers.

He pushes Marcy aside and darts.

EXT. CITY STREETS - NIGHT

Max flees. Jake and Brad charge after him. They're right on

him - he has a meter or so on them.

He scurries through a construction site and over a footbridge.

Then, he runs into an all-night

BODEGA

The tough guys chase after him and he gets a bit of a

lead in the narrow aisles. He pleads with the owners for

help - nothing doing.

Jake heads him off and uses his body to block the aisle. But

Max grabs a can of beans and slams it down on the tough guy's

nose. The guy goes down and Max shoots out the exit.

EXT. UNDERNEATH CAR - NIGHT

Max dives under a car and crawls for terror. He sees two sets

of feet nun by. Max starts to relax when he notices a pair of

heels on the other side of the car. Marcy bends down and looks

at him.

Max retreats in the opposite direction. Suddenly Jake and Brad

grab him and drag him out.

They search him, taking his wallet, keys, everything.

Marcy looks at the guys, who shake their heads. She walks over

to Max and shows Max the front page of the Wall Street

Journal. It reads, "MARKET CRACHES"

Marcy pulls out a folded, worn piece of paper. She opens it.

It's Max's stock pick that he threw out. Part of THE number is

on the page

Marcy jabs Max in his stomach. Max falls to the ground. The

tough guys sit on him.

Marcy nods to Jake, who pulls out a gun and points it at Max's

head.

Max thinks for a second. Max thinks hard. He realizes be

can't give them the number.

Jake cocks the gun. Max starts to cry.

Suddenly, Jake is whacked with a sawed-off baseball bat.

He smashes into the sidewalk.

It is Farrouhk, Max's neighbor, who's just pulled up in his

taxicab.

Farroukh threatens Marcy and the other tough guy, who

retreat in fear. Farroubk is afraid as well, so he doesn't

quite leap on them. He just keeps swinging the bat.

Max gets to his feet and runs behind Farrouhk.

Just then a station wagon screeches up to the curb. Lenny

Meyer, Ephraim, and a bunch of other his burly Jews jump out.

Max looks at Farrouhk and then he looks at Lenny. Ephraim

grabs Max and pulls him toward the station wagon.

Farrouhk heads for his cab. Ephraim helps Max into the

backseat of the wagon and climbs in after him.

Lenny Meyer jumps into the passenger seat and the gray-bearded

YISRAEL slams on the gas Pedal.

Farrouhk jumps into his cab.

INT. LENNY MEYER'S CAR - MOVING - NIGHT

Yisrael yanks the steering wheel to the left, the old station

wagon skids around a corner.

Ephraim pushes Max's head down. Yisrael takes another

corner sharp.

Lenny nods to Ephraim, who starts scanning through

Max's pockets. Max resists. The other guys hold him down.

Yisrael screeches the car to a halt. He spins around in his

seat and looks Max in the face.

Max chews into Ephraim's hand which is pinning him. Ephraim

screams and lets loose a punch to Max's jaw.

But Lenny is late, and Max's world - as well as ours goes

black.

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

Max stares suspiciously at the bathroom. He slowly picks up

his drill. Wielding it like a hammer, he carefully advances

into the

BATHROOM where he looks into the sink. He almost vomits when

he sees a piece of human brain sitting above the drain. Ants

swarm across its surface.

Max becomes furious. He whacks it with the drill. Blood flies

up into his face. In a wild rage, he smashes it and punches

it.

Then he drops the drill and uses his bare hands to shove it

down the drain. Screaming like a madman, he jams it until it

is gone.

INT. BASEMENT SHUL - DAY

A wise-looking, bearded Hasidic man with benevolent, piercing

eyes stands tenderly over Max. He wears traditional black

clothes. Lenny Meyer paces nervously in the background.

As Max comes through, RAV COHEN speaks.

Max takes out his pills and starts feeding himself some.

Rav Cohen takes a dramatic pause. Max is anxious to hear the

end of the story.

A long beat.

Wondrously, Max rubs the scar on his head.

EXT. CITY STREETS - DAY

Max races through the streets of New York. He is wide-eyed.

People fly by. Max in a spiraling whirlwind.

EXT. SOL'S APARTMENT - NIGHT

A pumped and excited Max paces the hall as he rings the bell.

The door opens. But it isn't Sol. It's a young, beautiful

woman wearing a simple black dress. Her name is JENNY ROBESON

and she is Sol's niece.

Jenny's eyes drop.

Max rushes into Sol s study. The room is covered with Sol's P,

research books. It seems Sol had recently come out of

retirement. Max looks at a few of Sol's books. Then he finds a

piece of paper with Sol's handwriting on it. On the paper is

THE number. Max slides it into his pocket.

Max looks at the Go board. The pieces are arranged in a giant

spiral across the board.

DISSOLVE TO

INT. MAX'S APARTMENT - DAY

Max sits on his bed staring at Sol's handwritten number.

Then he notices that his thumb is twitching. He drops Sol's

note.

He dumps the contents of the bottle of pills into his hand.

Max stops as he prepares to shove the pills down his throat.

He looks at the pills. Then he looks at Euclid around him. He

throws the pills and the bottle to the floor. They fall to

earth in SLOW MOTION.

The room rushes in on Max and so does the pain. It throws him

to the ground and he bashes his head against the floor.

Max recites THE number and uses it to get to his feet. The

pain rips apart his voice.

Max's pain and anger transform into violence. He attacks

Euclid furiously. He recites the number with rage in his

voice.

He smashes the old computer apart. He tosses his step stool

through the mainframe.

Then he goes to the window and tries to rip off the cardboard

covering the glass panes. Nothing doing, so he yanks the

entire window wide open.

Sunlight floods the room and throws Max into the

BLINDING WHITE VOID

where Max looks around starry-eyed. The pain is gone.

Everything is new to Max - even his hands. The stress leases

from his brow and his shoulders sag.

Max continues to recite the number His voice becomes tender

and peaceful. As he starts to become part of the void, his

voice turns into a whisper and his eyes start to close.

Then he hears Devi.

Her voice reaches into the void.

Max looks toward her voice.

We cut back to

...THE MAIN ROOM

where Devi leans over Max. Max's eyes are open while he

continues to recite the number.

Max turns away from Devi and we return to the

BLINDING WHITE VOID

where Max continues to recite the number.

And then we cut back to

THE MAIN ROOM

where Devi grabs Max's palm. Max's fingers wrap around her

hand. We return to

THE BLINDING WHITE VOID

where Max stops reciting the number. He suddenly opens his

fear filled eyes.

Max lets out a 'SOL!, and reaches out into the void. We match

cut back to

THE MAIN ROOM

where Max grabs Devi and hugs her. He gasps for air as

he collapses into her arms, sobbing.

Max sobs. He holds onto her for dear life

And then be realizes that Devi is not in his arms. He is

holding onto himself.

Then Max notices Sol's note on the ground. He looks at the

number. He collects himself and catches his breath.

INT. MAX'S BATHROOM  DAY

Max looks at Sol's note. He lights a match and burns it.

Next, he prepares something in the sink.

We hear the WHINE of a motor. Then it stops, Max looks at

himself in the mirror, He smiles. Then he gets solemn.

He takes a deep breath. Then we hear the motor again. Max

lifts up his arm. He's holding a drill. He places the bit

against the math section of his scalp.

He applies pressure and drills into his brain.

Max collapses as we quickly

CUT TO

EXT. CITY PLAYGROUND - DAY

TIGHT ON

a tree branch gently blowing in the wind.

Max watches it with peaceful, understanding eyes. He wears a

hat on his head.

He listens to the wind in the trees.

Just then, Jenna surprises him with her Fisher Price

calculator on hand.

Max smiles at Jenna. He's glad to see her.

Max shrugs, not able to say no.

Jenna types m the number.

Max is about to say "no" to Jenna, but then be decides to give

it a shot.

Max thinks, he really thinks.

Jenna presses the EQUALS button.

The trees blow gently in the wind as we slowly

FADE TO WHITE which brings us to

THE END

